

Life
Assurance
The Balance Wheel of
Life.
For the
BUILDING OF
YOUR HOME,
EDUCATION OF
YOUR CHILDREN,
LIQUIDATION OF
THE MORTGAGE.
Full particulars will
be forwarded on
application.
t i
:;§:-s
K
ft?"-:
-3S*.
m m
wm I
-
;
$
1
m i
,n 0
Life
Assurance
The only Business
Certainty
For the
PROTECTION OF
ESTATE OR
BUSINESS,
FAMILY INCOME,
SALARY CON-
TINUATION.
Full particulars will
be forwarded on
application.
CITY MUTUAL CORNER,
HUNTER AND BLIGH STREETS, SYDNEY.
&f>e
CITY MUTUAL LIFE
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1879.
Purely Mutual, All Profits Belong to the Policy Holders.
Operates only in the Commonwealth of Australia.
Unsurpassed Reserves. Pays the Biggest Bonuses.
REPRESENTATIVES REQUIRED.
WM. BENNETT, Managing Director.
The Bulletin
Vol. 58.—N0. 3004.
Wednesday, September 8, 1937.
Ppcel 6d. %
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


DYMOCK’S NEW LIBRARY
CATALOGUE FOR 1937
is now ready and will be forwarded post free
with terms and particulars on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
“The Block,”
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
Visit
THE AUSTRALIAN ART
EXHIBITION
The Macleod Gallery,
Bulletin Buildings, 252 George Street
(Near Bridge Street).
Latest Pictures by leading Aus-
tralian Artists. Gallery now
reopened after renovations and
rearrangement.
ADMISSION FREE.
Tel., 87971.
S. H. Prior Memorial Prize
Fourth Competition Closes June 6, 1938.
Full particulars of this annual literary award will be published
here from time to time, or may be had on application to The
Bulletin, 252 George-street, Sydney.
For this current competition only novels are eligible, and the
Prize will be awarded to that which is considered the most
outstanding contribution to Australian literature.
The trustees will publish the successful work in book form,
and in serial form any they may deem worthy. If published as a
serial the winner will be paid for at serial rates in addition to the
prize-money. Any others used as serials will also be paid for at
serial rates.
Any bona fide Australian resident or any person born in
Australia, New Zealand or British South Pacific islands will be
eligible to enter for the competition works which must be the
original work of the entrants, and previously unpublished, either
wholly or in part, in book or serial form. Manuscripts must be
submitted under a nom de plume, and the true name and address
of the author must accompany each entry in a sealed envelope,
which will not be opened until the judges have made their decision.
The trustees reserve the right to withhold the Prize if no work
submitted is, in the opinion of the judges, worthy of an award.
If this should occur in any year, the amount of the Prize will be
added to the following year’s Prize.
The Red Page
SCREEN STORY COMPETITION.
Cinesound Productions, Ltd., has decided to
conduct a competition for stories suitable for production
on the screen, and by arrangement it is to be run in
conjunction with “The Bulletin’s” short story com-
petition already announced, entries for which will close
on January 31.
Cinesound will award a prize of £lOO to the writer
of the story mpst suitable for adaptation as a screen
play, and offers also to buy the screen rights of any
other story considered suitable for its purposes.
This special prize is in addition to the prizes offered
ky The Bulletin,” and it will be possible for one story
to -win in both sections.
The prizes are:
Best Screen Story £lOO
(Cinesound Special Prize)
First Prize £3O
Second . „ £l5
Third £5
Special Prize Brief Story £5
In addition to the prizes, all entries published will
be paid for at “Bulletin” rates.
The Cinesound prize is for screen, theatre, radio
and television rights. The Bulletin prizes are for
Australasian publication rights. Cinesound reserves
the right to withhold the prize in the unlikely event
that no story is considered acceptable for moving-
picture purposes.
Writers should understand that a finished scenario
is not asked for in this competition. A good story
with originality of theme, with action well spaced
throughout and well-drawn characterisation is called
for* The technical treatment of the accepted story
or stories will be attended to by Cinesound.
The purpose of this Special Prize is to stimulate
the production in Australia of stories suitable for the
films. Cinesound aims at making in Australia pictures
that will not only prove acceptable to Australian audi-
ences, but that can be exhibited as Australian produc-
tions with credit to us overseas. It is hoped that this
competition will assist in opening a wide and profit-
able field for those who will take the trouble to study
the special technique required of the successful film-
story writer.
In this the first essential is originality of idea.
The hackneyed plot is not required. Strong distinc-
tive characters will often convey their own plot. The
writer must make himself a member of the audience
and visualise his characters acting on the screen.
The second essential is action. The story must
move rapidly but naturally in a continuous succession
of scenes.
The third essential is economy of dialogue. Long
speeches cannot be successfully acted, and lengthy
descriptive passages are out of place in a film story
except where necessary for the direction of the pic-
ture. They are not for the audience.
The fourth essential is economy of production.
It is inadvisable to submit stories that demand
elaborate and expensive settings, huge mob scenes,
costly wardrobes. For this reason “period” stories
are not encouraged.
Every story submitted in this competition will be
considered as having been entered for production as
a screen play and for publication in The Bulletin.
Those selected for consideration as film stories will
be judged by Ken G. Hall, Cinesound director ; Frank
Harvey, scenarist, and the editor of The Bulletin.
Closing date for the competition is January 31,
1938. But it is not intended to wait till then before
publishing entries; any considered to have a chance
will be paid for and published week by week as they
come to hand. At the close of the competition ALL
the entries will be considered by the judges.
Each entry must be the competitor's hitherto
unpublished original work, and must be accompanied
by a declaration to that effect.
Entries must not exceed 6500 words. The special
prize of £5 for the best brief story will go to the
best story of 1500 words or less. It will have an
equal chance of taking any of the other prizes.
Pen-names may be used, but the full names and
addresses of the winners will be published when the
results are announced.
Each competitor may submit as many entries as
he or she desires, and there is no entry fee.
No member of The Bulletin staff may compete.
Entries to be addressed:
“Short Story Competition,”
C/o “THE BULLETIN,”
Box 252188, G.P.0., Sydney.
The Vain Glory of War.
The vogue for war-books refuses to be killed,
though publishers, feeling more and more nervous
about their success, present them with more and mors
recommendations. Politicians, however, seem to esti-
mate them more highly than they used to. Mr. Lyons,
for instance, found time to read Guy Chapman’s 784
pages of closely-printed anthology Vain Glory
(Cassell ; Bs. 6d.), during the busiest fortnight of the
Imperial Conference.
He found it
one of the most graphic pictures ever painted of the
Great War and its horrors No person after reading
this could fail to do everything in his power to further
the cause of world peace.
Other Prime Ministers had their say in the same
strain.
The job is skilfully done in a series of several
hundred snippets which contain a bit of everything,
from accounts of big battles to the trivialities of trench
life and leave. It gives the viewpoints of soldiers on
every side in the struggle and something of the inside
story of diplomatic happenings. It begins with a two-
line cable from the British Consul at Sarajevo—not
named, but he was J. F. Jones —to the Foreign Office:
According to news received here heir apparent and
his consort assassinated this morning by means of an
explosive nature.
and goes on to an account of how the news reached
Compton Mackenzie waiting for his mail in a drowsy
Italian fishing village;
Down through the dusky olive grove came Vincenzo
with the evening provisions and the newspaper.
“What news?” we asked.
“No news,” he said. “The fireworks cannot be set
off for three days, and some Austrian Duke has been
killed somewhere. Ecco il giornale!”
From that, the drama develops till August 4,
when the British Cabinet waited for a German reply
to the British ultimatum. A private secretary dashed
in with the news that Germany had declared war.
A note to the German Ambassador had been prepared
for sending as soon as the ultimatum expired. This
note was hurriedly redrafted to begin: “Germany
having declared war, etc.” After it had been sent, it
was discovered that there had been a mistake. Ger-
many had not declared war, and it was felt that the
note must be retrieved at any cost. The youngest
Foreign Office clerk available was chosen for the job
—it was luckily Harold Nicolson, who can write. He
went to the German Embassy:
T he butler knocked at a door. There was a screen
behind the door and behind the screen a brass bedstead
qn which the Ambassador reclining in pyjamas.
The Foreign Office clerk stated that there had been a
slight error in the document previously delivered and
that he had come to substitute for it another and more
correct version. Prince Lichnowsky indicated the writing
table in the window. “You will find it there,” he said.
The envelope had been but half-opened and the pass-
ports protruded. It did not appear that the Ambassador
had read the communication or opened the letter... .He
must have guessed its significance from the feel of the
• passports and have cast it on his table in despair....
While the Ambassador was signing a receipt for the
amended declaration, the sound of shouting came up
from the Mall below... .Prince Lichnowsky turned out
the pink lamp beside his bed and then, feeling that he
had, perhaps, been uncivil, he again lighted it. “Give
my best regards,” he said, “to your father. I shall
not in all probability see him before my departure.”
There is, too, the account of Walter H. Page, the
U.S.A. Ambassador, of his last interview with the
peacefully-minded Lichnowsky:
The German Embassy was turned over to me ...
The Ambassador came down in his pyjamas, a crazy
man. I feared he might literally go mad. He is of the
anti-war party and had done his best and utterly failed.
The interview was one of the most pathetic experiences
of my life. The poor man had not slept for several
nights.
After that come pictures of harried Belgians,
Ludendorff's story of the first fighting, impressions of
the French mobilisation when “millions of men kissed
their wives and burned their letters”:
England never experienced that nuit blanche .... All
she did was to put a Bobby on duty in front of the
German Embassy.
When the English soldiery landed in France they
had to be restrained by the officers from laughing
at their first sight of foreigners, their Allies. Presently
there is the story of General French meeting Lanrezac
and of the two trying to converse with no common
language, till Lanrezac rudely asked somebody to tell
the British C.-in-C. that “in my opinion the Germans
. have merely gone to the Meuse to fish.”
On August 21 —the anniversary, by the way, of
Vimiero, the first battle of Wellington’s first campaign
on the Peninsula —the British were on the fringe of
contact with the Germans. Next day, on the anniver-
sary of Bosworth Field, and in sight of Waterloo,
Hornby’s 4th Dragoon Guards charged some German
cavalry. They turned out to be Bavarian ploughboys
“carrying long metal lances, like lengths of gas-pip-
ing, which they could not manage.” They turned tail
before the crack British cavalry, and the captured
wounded said that they did not know what to make
of it all or what it was all about.
From then onwards the canvas enlarges with every
page—Mons, the Marne, Loos, Gallipoli, the Somme.
Palestine, the Easter Rebellion, the French mutinies,
executions of youngsters for desertion, soldiers singing
on the road, soldiers with their sweethearts on leave,
soldiers being obliterated in ghastly explosions of
flying human pulp in the greater battles. Every kind
of source is drawn on from the letters home of
privates to official war histories, from lon Idriess to
Prime Ministers. There is a deal of war verse and
a few pages are devoted to war aftermaths.
Vain Glory is skilfully put together, with excellent
continuity. It is not a pretty book to read, but, built
up without extraneous comments and consisting purely
of the accounts and opinions of eyewitnesses, it is a
devastating preachment against war.
EL V.
A Gentleman with a Shillelagh.
Adrian Lawlor, a writer whose vigorous and
often penetrating criticisms have frequently found a
place on this page, has collected in Arquebus (Ruskin
Press, 55.) his observations on Art—various letters to
newspapers, radio talks and papers read to gatherings
of the intelligentsia. His faith may be stated in his
own words:
Cezanne has revolutionised the art of three centuries.
Matisse, an enchanting virtuoso of inexhaustible technical
resource, has added the dazzling periphery of his own
personality to the conscious vision of the human mind;
while Picasso is one of the most powerful and vital
creative artists (though the lesser Brague may be the
better “painter”) that has ever tackled the man-sized
job of forging a new symbology for the connotation
and enlargement of our tragic experience.
Possibly because Australian painters as a class are
not sufficiently agile to apply peripheries to visions
or to enlarge the tragedy of their experience by forging
symbologies,
Australian art is a negligible quantity in the serious
art of to-day, its practitioners for the most part feeble
and vitiated in intention, its values proverty-stricken,
its products mere essays—sometimes slick, sometimes
stodgy—in academic convention.
Those are doubtless two perfectly honest and deeply-
felt expressions of opinion, and it would be futile to
argue with Mr. Lawlor about them, because in these
matters
Nobody knows. There is no right and no wrong
either in art or in criticism. The only golden rule is
that whatever works (in its own terms) as an aesthetic
means is justified (in its own terms) as an aesthetic end.
Furthermore:
Mere erudition is of little avail where aesthetic values
are in question.
In view of all which, one might expect Mr. Lawlor
to make his points with some degree of reasonable-
ness. If study and learning are of no avail, and if
each man has a right to set up his own aesthetic
standard, it is hardly kind or necessary to scarify people
who don’t agree with one on some point of aesthetics.
But Mr. Lawlor is above all things a master of invec-
tive. Finding few painters or critics in this be-
nighted Australia to subscribe to his idolatry of the
French impressionists, he trounces those who (perhaps
quite honestly) disagree with him.
He refers to art critics of the press as “obfus-
cating personages” whose opinions “are their own
comic funeral.” Harold Herbert, Max Meldrum,
Frank Crozier, Arthur Streeton, Lionel Lindsay,
J. S. MacDonald and A. Colquhoun—all come
under the lash. Tt would appear that everybody’s out
of step but our Adrian.
As a critic of paintings Mr. Lawlor is no more
tolerant than as a critic of opinions. He finds in
H. A. Hanke “essential ineptitude.” Ernest Buckmaster
suffers from “total inability to analyse or make any
sort of intelligent aesthetic constatation of the world
of appearance.” These be hard words, particularly
“constatation,” which is a fearful weapon to break
over anyone’s head. Possibly had Mr. Lawlor been
a little less of a believer in fortiter in re, newspaper
editors would have printed more of his contributions
to their correspondence columns ; his broadcast talks
(which he says were a “complete flop”) would have
won more friends, and his own exhibition of paint-
ings would have been more kindly criticised. Though
(Continued on page 8.)


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”—the Salt of Business.
THE SENIOR STORE:
X
§
m
i or
for MEN appreciative of style
i
45
SSI
i m
?0}
m
■
& :
m
m
m
i
§>>*«3
fel
m
m
m
mm.
m.
m
%3i
m
n
m
11
1 k I
tr value
*
i
(T
£
/_
15
/
21
/ V
x.
m
m
m
H
X
v\
BRADFORD TWILL
PYJAMAS
Now is the time to replenish your
stock of summer Pyjamas.
Colourful stripes in this range of
excellent wearing Cotton Brad-
ford Twill Pyjamas, made in our
own workrooms. Small, medium
and outsizes.
At Anthony Horderns’, suit, 13/6
CELLULAR ART.
SILK SHIRTS
Golfers, Te nn i s Players and
Cricketers will find these Shirts very
much to their liking. Made with
collar attached. Tonings' include
Maize, Grey, Marone, Navy, Bottle,
Fawn, Saxe and White. Small,
medium and outsizes.
At Anthony Horderns’ 10/6
I. and R. MORLEY'S
SPORTS SHIRTS
T 6
These are the Shirts active sports-
men wear for comfort and sturdy
wear. Velnit, and I. and R. Morley’s
product of interlock cotton weave.
Collar attached and the sizes range
from 1 to 1 7in. neck. Cream,
Green, Grey, Marone, Fawn or Navy.
With short sleeves.
At Anthony Horderns’ 7/6
With long sleeves. Price .t. . . 9/6
WOOL SLEEVELESS
PULLOVERS
Sportsmen find a cosy Pullover in-
dispensable. This one is of soft
Pure Wool in a summer weight.
Made with V-neck. Tonings include
Flannel Grey, Bottle, Marone, Brown
or Navy. Sizes 36in. to 40in. chest.
A£ Anthony Horderns’ 157-
SUPER GRADE
SLEEVELESS PULLON
17"6
This is the kind of Pullon Golfers
need! Extremely comfortable and
durable, it is a sleeveless style in a
really super grade All Wool. A
ribbed knit with V-neck. Flannel
Grey, Bottle, Marone, Brown or
Navy. Sizes 36in. to 40in. chest.
At Anthony Horderns’ 17/6
65/- Anti-Crease
DRESSING
GOWNS
45-
They re better wearing than most
Dressing Gowns at this price and
they’re in a comfortable weight
for summer wear. Save 20/- on
one of these Klipper Gowns . . .
they are washable and crease-
resisting. Grey, Brown and Blue
designs. Price 65/-
Special Price 45/-
# Mercery-Ground Floor, Pin Street.
Freight paid to all railway stations in
N.S.W. and seaports in the Commonwealth.
SUMMER CALLS FOR
COOLER UNDERWEAR!
Sleeve!ess Athletic Singlets from
Here is a selection of Underwear for Summer. Long
wear is assured and the sizes range from 34in. to
44in. chest.
White Elastic Ribbed Knit. Prices: 1/6, 1/11, 2/6
Cream Interlock Cotton. Price 2/11
White “Webtex” Open Mesh. Price 2/6
White Art. Silk Dulsheen. Price . 2/11
Cream All Wool Cashmere Knit. Price 3/6
Cream All Wool "Jumbuk” Regd. Price 4/11
'6
MEN’S TRUNK DRAWERS from
Trunk Drawers in sizes from 32in. to 44in. waist.
Ordinary button front with brace loops.
White Ribbed Cotton. * Price 2/9
White Longcloth. Prices 3/9, 4/6
White Art. Silk Dulsheen. Price 4/11
White Cellular. Prices ... 3/3, 3/6
White Cellular “Hordura” Reg. Price
White Aertex Cellular. Price
White BVD Cotton. Price
2'9
3/6
5/11
5/-
V
1
Service” Hat
in two shapes
17'fi
The “Service Hat is not expensive,
but it will wear and retain its smart
shape indefinitely. There are two styles
in Pure Fur Felt, with brims either
24-in. or 2-2-in. wide. Grey, Fawn,
Brown or Navy.
At Anthony Horderns’ 17/6
Trunk Drawers from
Trunk Drawers with
elastic waist, in sizes
34in. to 42in. waist.
Dependable wearing
qualities, inexpensively
priced.
White Ribbed Cotton, elastic waist.
Prices 1/11, 3/9
White Poplin, athletic cut.
Prices 2/11, 3/11
White Cellular, open mesh. Price, 3/1 3
White Art. Silk Dulsheen.
Prices
hi
3/11, 4/6
ANTHONY HORDERN AND SONS LIMITED, SYDNEY


A Light-Hearted New Serial
NO TRAIN TUESDAY
BY J.B. BLAIR
ILLUSTRATED BY UNK WHITE.
AUTHOR’S NOTE:
As far as / am aware there is no town
of Terrigan either inside or outside N.S.W.
If there is a billygoat named Baldy J. have
never met him, and any resemblance which
he or any other persons may find in the story
to himself or themselves is entirely fortuitous.
CHAPTER /.
ONSTABLE DANSIE marched importantly
down the main street of Terrigan.
I Ifinlsl “I 1 i s my unpleasant duty,” he
a v/|p|jj announced to the pillarbox in front of
the P ost office, “to hand you this —er —
er” He paused for words. “It is
my unpleasant duty to hand”
He broke off confusedly as a middle-aged, jolly-
faced man stepped out of the post office.
“Hullo, Peter —I thought I heard you talking to
someone,” the newcomer greeted him.
“Good morning, Mr. Mutton. No, you must have
made a mistake.”
“That’s funny. Could’ve sworn I heard a voice.
Where to?”
“Oh, Fm just off to the Federal to present —er —
on business.”
“Aha! Bert been sly-grogging?”
Constable Dansie thrust his chest out a few
inches. “No. As a matter of fact, Mr. Mutton, it
is my unpleasant duty to present a warrant of arrest.”
“What! On Bert? What’s he been doing?”
“No, not Bert. That American chap that’s stay-
ing there.”
“Old Pettigrew? You can’t arrest him. He’s
got enough cash to buy the whole town up.”
“If you’re suggesting, Mr. Mutton, that I am a
man that’d let money interfere with my duty”
“Not at all, Peter ; but what’s he been doing?
Murder?” he added hopefully.
“That’s about the only thing he hasn’t been doing.”
Mr. Mutton was becoming interested in the affair.
Arrests were very few and far between in Terrigan.
Mr. Mutton could remember only two in the
last six months. He, by the way, filled the
highly responsible position of postmaster in Terrigan
—and, moreover, had filled it so long and so well that
few people in the town could imagine the place as it
would be without him. He could claim to have
handed out congratulatory telegrams to the parents
of infants who now had children approaching
Marriageable age themselves.
Dansie had been there almost as long. In fact
it was a most peculiar thing about Terrigan that when
a man came there to fill any official position he seemed
to come for good. The schoolteacher had taught two
generations of Terriganians. The stationmaster had
been giving the all-clear signql to Sydney-bound trains
ever since Mafeking year, and his porter was a Boer
War veteran. The bank manager had arrived some-
where about the same time, and also seemed to have
taken root.
Not by their own wish did these most respected
figures in the life of the town stay in Terrigan. Every
year the schoolmaster sent in an application to his
department asking for a transfer to a bigger town ;
every year the postmaster urged upon his department
the fact that seniority entitled him to a city appoint-
ment. The staff officers of the Agricultural Bank
had a large and ever-growing file of letters from Mr.
Bannister, the burden of which was that the bank’s
interests would be far better served if his talents were
made available in a more important branch than
Terrigan. Even the stationmaster and the policeman
had asked times out of number for transfers.
As though by common agreement, the various
officials responsible for the destinies of all these worthy
citizens turned deaf ears to their requests, and the
years saw them growing more and more into the life
of the town, until it seemed to all but the oldest
inhabitants that they had always been there. To
Terrigan “postmaster” meant Mr. Mutton, “bank
manager” meant Mr. Bannister, while to the young-
sters, at any rate, the idea that there was any police-
man in the world other than Mr. Dansie probably
never occurred.
That was the position on the morning when Mr.
Mutton set off with Dansie to witness the serving
of the warrant.
J_J IRAM PETTIGREW, millionaire, pickle manufac-
* * turer, American citizen and world traveller, sat
in the parlor of the Federal Hotel. Quite short, very
stout, red-faced, and bald except for a thin silky
showing of white hair at the back of the head, small
but alert eyes and a tiny button of a nose, he was
not in the least like the “typical American business-
man.” He was complaining bitterly to the proprietor
of the hotel and a tall, spare man with a drooping
moustache.
“The automobile regulations in this country,” he
said, “would make a borough councillor in the States
laugh his sides out.
“Hadn’t been in Sydney a day before Fm pinched
for driving the wrong way in Pitt-street. Showed
the cop where he got off, and drove up another lane.
Parked th’ car and went in to see a guy. Comes out
a bit later. ‘See here,’ says a cop. ‘Y’ can’t park
here. Fll have t’ take y’ name.’
“ ‘l’m Hiram Pettigrew,’ says I, ‘and where the
hell can I park?’
“ ‘Over there,’ he tells me, jotting down my num-
ber. I drove off. Next night I’m driving the car that
way again. Parks here in the place where th’ cop
showed me. ‘O.K. this time,’ I thinks to myself. After
the show I go to my automobile, and there’s another
cop standing by.
“‘Don’t y’ know y’ can’t park here?’ he opens.
“‘What’s the big idea?’ I gave him. ‘One of
y’r own guys told me to park here yesterday after-
noon.’
“ ‘Afternoon’s all right,’ he says, ‘but y’ can’t park
here after six o’clock. Y’ ought t’ know that.’ An-
other blister!”
“Bad luck!” sympathised Mr. Milligan. “I
remember onst”
“Bad luck! ” snorted Pettigrew. “Bad luck ? Bad
management, y’ mean. Crazy laws! What’s the idea
of it? Answer me that!”
He went on. “I’ll tell y’ why it is. All they
want is revenue. Fines! Cash! Dahlars! Well,
they’re not goin’t’ get it outa Hiram Pettigrew. No,
sir. Not me. I know enough about that racket.
“Here’ve I registered the car. Fifty dahlars that
cost. Ain’t that enough without all this persecution?
Took me for a sucker, that’s what they did. Here
am I walking down Park-street, see guys driving both
ways, Coupla nights later I drive down myself.
Cop holds me up again.
‘“Can’t drive that way. One-way traffic in this
street!’
“Without a word I stepped on it, pushed him
sideways and tore off. Next morning I stopped a
summons on four counts. ‘To hell with ’em,’ I
thought. ‘l’ll clear off.’ So I packed my grip and
skinned out. ‘Melbourne,’ I thought. ‘l’ll try that
burg.’ My daughter Sally’s down there, you see.
She went down a week before to stay with some folks.
So I thought I’d try it. ‘Mightn’t be so hot as Sydney,’
I reckoned.”
“ ‘Let ’em follow me if they can! ’ I thought.
Ten miles out, a line of cops' held me up again. ‘Show
y’r license,’ they said.
“‘What license?’ I asked. T ain’t got a dog.’
“ ‘Y’r driving license, of course.’
“I produced me registration docket.
“ ‘That’s no good. We want y’r license. Ain’t
y’ got one?’
“I hadn't. I thought it was included in the regis-
tration, and said so.
“ ‘A pretty yarn,’ sneered one of th’ cops.
“Anyhow, my name and number went down and
off I went. Cruised about a bit, and here I am. A
bit off the track, but it’s a pretty little joint, and l’m
goin’ t’ stay here for a few days’ rest. The next con
that goes me'll get what’s cornin’ to him.”
A TALL, thin man of about fifty-five years of age
** approached the Terrigan railway station. He was
sharp-featured, he walked with a springy step and
swung a walking-stick.
“Good morning, Tom,” he greeted the porter.
“Is Mr. Buckenara about?”
“He’s in his office, Mr. Napper.”
“Good.”
Mr. Napper knocked at a door labelled “Station
Master,” opened it and went inside.
He was a frequent visitor here, where his peren-
nial grouch against those responsible for the adminis-
tration of education was always sympathetically
received. Mr. Napper had many pet schemes and
theories for the betterment of the education system
which the (to his mind) stereotyped methods of the
Education Department prevented him from putting
into practice. The Terrigan school, consisting of
thirty to forty pupils of all ages, should have afforded
him scope to work out his schemes on a small experi-
mental scale, but the powers that be consistently
refused to allow him to introduce his innovations
into the school. But this morning Mr. Napper had
not come to complain. After exchanging greetings
with the stationmaster he got down to business. “Fm
expecting a parcel of books by the train to-night. Fll
call and pick them up instead of waiting for the morn-
ing delivery.”
The stationmaster shook his head. He was like
a man with a secret sorrow.
“Why not? Is the train late?”
“It won’t be coming at all to-day.”
“Not at all? Why not? Has there been an
accident?”
“No.”
“Then what’s stopping it?”
Mr. Buckenara sighed with the air of one breath-
ing first news of a national tragedy. “They’ve cut it
out.”
“Cut it out! What —altogether?”
“Yes. No train on Tuesdays now.”
“What’s the idea? What about my books?
There’s always been a train on Tuesday.”
“Well, they say the traffic don’t warrant it.
Economy and all that. It’s always the same. Terri-
gan doesn’t matter. Their worries about us!”
The schoolmaster was in haste to agree. “That’s
just what I always say. We’re stuck away down
here and they think we don’t matter.”
The stationmaster nodded in sympathy. Terrigan
had once boasted two trains a day. Three
years previously one of these had been dis-
continued, and, despite indignation meetings in
the town, letters to the member for the district and
other representations, it had never been restored. This
had been a sad blow to the dignity of Mr. Buckenara,
and one which had made him a rebel for life against
his superiors. Now had come the second indignity—
the Tuesday train had been cut out without warning
and without any consultation with local opinion.
“Why didn’t you tell us before?” asked Mr.
Napper. “You must have known yesterday.”
“I didn’t know. Haven’t even got it in writing
yet. The stationmaster at Wygong rang me up. The
train’s not going beyond there in future.”
“But surely they’d have told you.”
“I rang through to Sydney right away, and they
confirmed it. Said they’d written yesterday. The
confounded fools must have sent the letter on the
same train that isn’t coming here. It’ll come through
from Wygong to-morrow.”
“Then there’ll be no mail to-day? Does old
Mutton know?”
“He hasn’t mentioned it, but I suppose he does.
The Commonwealth people aren’t as close as our
crowd.”
“Let’s come and see him. We can’t take this
lying down. We let ’em get away with it last time,
but this is going too far. Surely they can spare us
a train a day. An indignation meeting’s the first
move, then a petition signed by everyone in the dis-
trict.”
He was becoming quite excited and enthusiastic.
Already he could see himself leading a crusade against
the Railways Department and demanding the restora-
tion of the Tuesday train.
“Right-oh. We’ll go and see Mutton,” agreed
the stationmaster.


The two passed out of the station and set off
towards the post office, continuing their grumblings
as they went. At the post office, of course, they drew
a blank. Mr. Mutton was out. This seemed not to
surprise them in the least, nor did they trouble to
inquire his whereabouts. They simply walked on
towards the Federal Hotel.
Their progress was without interest until they
turned into Livingstone-avenue, and then a most
interesting tableau met their gaze. The main figures
in the set were Constable Dansie, the postmaster, a
tall, dark young man, a motor-cycle, a goat and
several small boys. The dusty appearance of the
young man’s clothes, the fact that his cycle was prone
on the roadway, and the self-satisfied leer on the face
of the goat told their own story.
“Now get away, you boys,” Mr. Dansie was
saying, “and take your goat with y’. And if I find
him in the street again I’ll get him destroyed.”
“He done it a-purpose,” accused one of the lads,
pointing to the young man. “Baldy was just walkin’
along like, doin’ no harm to anyone, and he come
tearing round the corner at about ninety mile an hour
and bowled him over. Ninety mile an hour,” he
repeated, apparently liking the sound of the words.
“Didn’t he, you chaps?”
“Gee, yes—easy that.”
“More’n it, I reckon.”
“More like a hunderd miles an hour, if y’ ask
me.”
A lanky lad with a pimply face and prominent
teeth chipped in on this wave of corroboration.
“Garn —that thing couldn’t do ninety. Couldn’t even
do sixty. ’S only a Victor, and an old model at that.”
This expert evidence from the son of the garage
proprietor silenced the witnesses, and Mr. Dansie,
taking advantage of the lull, took charge of the situa-
tion again. “Go on. Clear out! Out y’ get, Tommy
Wilkins. Hop it, Willy Travers. Go on —all of you.
Get!”
The lads moved off with their goat, still mutter-
ing mutinously, and when they were at a safe distance
they gave vent to noisy and vulgar sounds of dis-
approbation. Having thus relieved their feelings they
scampered out of the street and. across an open pad-
dock, the victorious Baldy still with them.
“Damn the goat,” said the young man, dusting
himself. “S’pose it was my fault as much as his.
Anyhow, I got the worst of it. How are you, Mr.
Napper? And you, Mr. Buckenara? Still keeping
those trains up to time?”
He shook hands with both.
“Why, Gerald, what are you doing back?” asked
the schoolmaster. “I thought you wouldn’t be home
for a month yet.”
“Just stole a march on the dad. He thinks I’m
leaving London by the Bay boat this week, but I
came via America.”
“Anyhow, prop your bike up and come along to
the Federal,” said the postmaster. “Peter and I are
just on our way there, and I don’t suppose these two
are making for the butcher’s shop either.”
“I was going there in any case.”
The party crossed the road.
Gerald Bannister had a few years before been Mr.
Napper’s star pupil. He had gained several scholar-
ships, studied law, gone to England, had been called
to the Bar there, and was now, at the age of twenty-
five, returning to take up practice in Sydney. His
successes all seemed to have been achieved in spite of
himself, as he always managed to get the utmost fun
out of life and rather looked upon the idea of himself
as a barrister as a joke.
“How’s the crime wave, Mr. Dansie?” he in-
quired as they neared the hotel. “Any opening for
a good criminal lawyer in Terrigan?”
“Or a good lawyer criminal?” laughed the post-
master.
“Well, things are pretty quiet, Jerry,” replied
Dansie ; “but, still, y’ never know when something
might happen.”
“How’s the dad?” asked Jerry.
“Tiptop! He’ll be surprised to see you.”
They filed into the hotel.
CHAPTER 11.
y~| FTER James Bannister had recovered from his
j surprise at seeing his son he called for drinks all
C I round to celebrate the homecoming. Peter
Dansie was standing in the background, and
in the crowded state of the little room he had so far
escaped notice. He was beginning to get rather red
in the face, and his lips were moving spasmodically.
“You came from Sydney by motor-bike?” said
Jerry’s father.
“Have any trouble with the cops?” asked Mr.
Pettigrew, whose tirade against the police had been
interrupted.
“I always keep on the right side of the law,”
laughed Jerry. “Why, Peter just saved me from vio-
lence at the hands of the local goatherds—didn’t you.
Peter?”
Dansie gulped down the last of his beer and
spluttered out something that nobody understood.
Then he stepped forward, looked at Hiram Pettigrew
and began: “It is my unpleasant duty to inform you
that you are under arrest on three —no, five —counts,
and anything you say may be taken down and used
as evidence against you.”
Pettigrew went purple.
“Oh, am I?” he shouted. “Well, take this down,
you big slab. I think y’ law’s rotten. Y’ police force
is nothin’ but one big racket. Y’re all in it. It’s a
swindle. Fine me what y’ like. I won’t pay a cent.
Arrest me, will you?”
Dansie looked rather at a loss.
“You’d better come along,” he said. “I’m acting
on instructions from headquarters. I’d have arrested
you last night, but the wife got the letter mixed up
with some catalogues.”
“Wait on. What are the charges?” inquired
Jerry.
Dansie enumerated them. “He’s to go back to
Sydney for trial.”
“Well, there’s no need to lock him up. You’ll
have to wait for an escort to get down from Sydney.
Let him give you his word he won’t leave the town
till they arrive.”
“I think I ought to put him in. It’d only be for
a night. I suppose the escort’ll be in by the train
this afternoon, and then he can go back with them
to-morrow.”
Pettigrew was vainly attempting to get a word in.
He wanted to point out that not only would he not
be locked up, but also he would refuse to give his
word to stay or not to stay anywhere. The publican
was endeavoring to calm him.
“Jerry’s a lawyer,” he whispered. “Leave it to
’im, Mr. Pettigrew. He’s as clever as they make ’em.
Just you leave it to ’im.”
Mr. Buckenara broke in on the discussion.
“They won’t be down to-day,” he said in a
melancholy voice, “and they can’t go back to-morrow.”
“Why?”
The stationmaster explained.
Mr. Mutton was the first to speak. ‘“What about
my mails?”
“Well, y’ just won't get 'em until to-morrow, I
suppose.”
“It’s preposterous! Terrigan can’t get on without
a mail every day.”
“Why didn’t you tell us sooner, Buckenara?”
inquired the bank manager.
“I’m telling you I didn’t know sooner. I’ve just
got it from Wygong.”
“/ haven’t been told at all!” wailed Mr. Mutton.
“I suppose the notice will come in with to-morrow's
mail: ‘Please note that there was no mail yesterday
owing to the Tuesday train being discontinued.’ You
and your State Government!” he finished vindictively
to the stationmaster.
Mr. Buckenara was not the man to take that lying
down.
“Well,” he said, “fat lot of power your Federal
crowd must have when they can’t even make a State
Government run a train to carry their mail.”
The schoolmaster had been listening in silence
to the argument. He now broke in. “Now, look
here. There’s no sense in arguing over this. We’re
all in it. It’s a slight on our district. As I said to
Buckenara just now, they think they can do just
what they like to us. And why? Simply because
we’ve allowed them to put it over us in the past. It’s
up to us to do something this time.”
“Hear, hear!” said Bannister senior. “Sydney
looks upon us as a mere speck on the map.”
“They don’t even know we exist.”
Terrigan’s pillar of law and order thought it was
time he made himself heard again. “Well, anyhow,
I’ll have to lock you up, Mr. Pettigrew.”
“Like heck you will!” spluttered the indignant
Pettigrew.
“Cut it out, Peter,” said Gerald Bannister.
“What’s the good of locking him up when the escort
can’t possibly get here before to-morrow night? In
that draughty, damp cell of yours he’ll be getting
pneumonia or something. You don’t want to hand
over a corpse, do you?”
“Our gaol’s as good as any in the State. I’d like
to hear y’ say that to th’ missus. Why, only this
morning”
“Peter,” interrupted
Gerald, “far be it from
me to cast any aspersions
on the fair fame of your
cooler, but beware you
don’t exceed your author-
ity. I take it you are
familiar with the principle
of habeas corpus ?”
“I know what the law
allows me to do.”
“In ordinary cases,
yes. Probably none
better. But this case is not
an ordinary matter. Have
you heard of the verdict
in Clayton’s case?”
“Er —no.”
“I thought not —
otherwise you wouldn’t
dream of acting as you
propose. But of course
you know all about de
heretico comburendol ”
Dansie’s expression
showed clearly that he did
not.
“And yet you pro-
pose to lay hands on this
gentleman—an American
citizen, a son of that
western republic that
made the armed might of
the Old World bow low
its head? Peter, I’m
ashamed of you.”
Dansie felt sure there was a flaw in the argument
somewhere, but he was overwhelmed by the young
man’s eloquence. He floundered, and looked around
for inspiration.
“Well, what d’you think I ought to do?” he asked
helplessly.
“Do? Why, nothing. Mr. Pettigrew will give
you his word that he won’t leave the town for two
days.” He turned to the American. “Won’t you,
sir?”
“I’ll give my word to nothing. I sure intend to
stay here for a few days, perhaps a week —but not to
please any pie-faced flatfoot.”
“There you are, Peter.”
Dansie was not quite convinced yet.
“Well, p’raps if some of you were to guarantee
to look after him and see he don’t get away”
“We’ll all guarantee it. Won’t we?”
The publican was naturally not opposed to the
suggestion. Nor was Mr. Bannister, for whose drinks
the American had been paying liberally. The others,
feeling that by keeping Mr. Pettigrew out of the
lockup they were striking a blow against constituted
tyranny, eagerly agreed.
“Very well, then,” said Dansie, “I’ll call back for
you to-morrow night, Mr. Pettigrew, when the escort
arrives.”
“You can call when you darn well like!” snorted
Pettigrew. “But y’ won’t get me, I tell you. Free
country y’ call it? Y’ persecuting lot of hoboes.”
His supporters, however, eagerly assured the
policeman that they would see that his prisoner was
on hand at the appointed time, and Dansie walked
out feeling rather bewildered at the turn events hd
taken.
“You certainly know your law, Jerry,” said Mr.
Mutton. “You had old Peter properly stumped there.”
“Thanks, young fellow,” said Hiram Pettigrew,
coming forward. “You sure did me a good turn.
What’s the next move? What do I do when these
other two guys git here?”
“The next move,” said Gerald, “is drinks on the
house. How about it, Bert?”
Milligan, taken by surprise, had agreed before
he realised the purport of the suggestion. So he called
to the barmaid.
Mr. Napper, taking advantage of a momentary
silence as seven glasses were raised, resumed the
burden of his complaint. “What are we going to do
about this business? Are we to take it lying down?
I’m going to call a meeting to protest against it.”
“What’s the good of that?” asked Mutton despon-
dently. “What good do meetings ever do? We’ve
tried it before, and got no results.”
“That’s so,” agreed Bannister. “When they cut
the morning train out we protested and protested, and
it didn’t make a scrap of difference. It’s just the same
when I’m dealing with Head Office. Their troubles
about us!”
Jerry chipped in. “Are you sure you went the
right way about it? Just passing resolutions couldn’t
be expected to get you very far.”
“What d’you expect us to do, then?” This from
the stationmaster.
“Well, I don’t suggest that we should tar and
feather the Premier or send the Commissioner for
Railways an anonymous bomb, but certainly some-
thing should be done. I agree with Mr. Napper that
a public meeting is the first step.”
The little group all looked upon Jerry as some-
thing of a genius, and his sojourn in England made
them feel that his opinions were those of a man of
the world. When, therefore, the party broke up about
half an hour later a definite policy had been decided
upon. A public indignation meeting was to be held
the following night, and the president of the shire
council was to be asked to take the chair.
Hiram Pettigrew was complaining bitterly.


l< | T ain’t right, Mary,” said Peter Dansie to his
* wife. “I oughter run ’im in.”
“Of course you ought!” snapped back Mrs. Dan-
sie. “You’re too soft-hearted. Ever since we came
here that’s been your trouble. What’s the good of
being a policeman if you let every young good-for-
nothing in the town tell you what to do? The letter
was plain enough, wasn’t it?”
“Well, if you’d given me the letter last night
when it first came”
“There you are again. A big, hulking brute of
a policeman, and you’ve got to shelter behind your
wife. Do you think they’ll believe that at head-
quarters? Like fun they will.”
“Well, I can’t help it now, Mary. I’ve told ’em I’d
leave it till to-morrow night.”
“Yes, you weak-kneed stupid. You’ll lose your
job. You’ll have us and the children homeless and
starving, that’s what you’ll do. When you go to
arrest this American to-morrow night you arrest him,
and don’t let young Jerry Bannister or any other young
scamp talk you out of it. See?”
Peter Dansie nodded doubtfully.
“I’ll get him all right, Mary,” he answered sooth-
ingly.
A LL great movements must have a beginning some-
' * where. In the case of Terrigan and its stolen train
it is doubtful whether any of the Federal Hotel party
other than Gerald Bannister actually held any hope
that anything would come of the protest meeting.
How much Jerry really expected of it is impossible to
say. Looking back when it was all over, he could
never quite be sure himself. Knowing the discontent
that existed among all the old hands of the town, it
is certain that he anticipated quite a lot of fun at the
meeting, but whether he realised the course events
would take afterwards is merely a matter of conjec-
ture.
Certainly Mr. Napper didn’t expect much, but he
was always prepared to strike a blow for what he
considered his rights, even though he might believe
the effort doomed to be fruitless. He was therefore in
a receptive frame of mind when Gerald called on him
early the same evening, and the young lawyer’s per-
suasive eloquence fell on fertile soil. Within twenty
minutes the schoolmaster was as enthusiastic about
the meeting as a young father over his first-born.
Half an hour’s further discussion and he could scarcely
contain his excitement.
To allow him to work off a little steam Jerry
suggested telephoning the shire council president. This
gave Mr. Napper an opportunity of unburdening him-
self on the wrongs of the town to someone who was
not yet aware of them, and he did so at great length.
“An insult to the district and to yourself as president
of the shire council,” he concluded.
Mr. Peperell readily agreed to preside at the
meeting.
“Well, that’s a start, anyway,” said Napper as
he hung up the receiver. “What’s next?”
Jerry suggested placarding the town with notices
of the meeting.
“Excellent! Excellent!” cried Napper. “No-
wait a bit! I’ve a better idea. The ‘Times’ comes
out to-morrow. I’ll get on to old Bowden, and we’ll
have a notice in that. That’ll pull ’em. Power of the
press, you know.”
Unofficially, but with the knowledge of everyone
in the town, the schoolmaster wrotf most of the
leaders for the local weekly paper, as well as articles
on divers topics under various pen-names.
A visit to the office of the “Terrigan Times”
proved fruitful.
“The paper’s already ‘gone to bed,’ ” pleaded the
editor and sole proprietor.
“Then it’ll have to be waked up again,” returned
the leader-writer.
“Impossible.”
“Essential.”
Finally it was arranged that an extra sheet Would
be printed containing articles on “Cotton-growing in
Australia,” “A Survey of Religions in China Proper,”.
“An Ideal System of Education” and “Hints on Car-
nation Culture.” All these had been written by Mr.
Napper and had been held over for want of space.
He was particularly pleased to see the first one used,
as it had been waiting for over two years to appear
in print. The remainder of the space in the extra
sheet was devoted to advertisements for the meeting
- and a resume of the slight upon the honor of the town,
hastily written by Mr. Napper.
The printer also undertook to have handbills
ready for distribution, and arrangements were made
for them to be posted up around the town.
“We’ll get ’em all along,” said Gerald enthusiasti-
cally as the two walked down Commercial-road. “The
‘Times’ will fetch all the town people and the hand-
bills’ll get the farmers when they come in for mid-
week shopping to-morrow. We’ll pack the hall.”
“We’ll show them they can’t treat Terrigan with
contempt,” agreed Napper.
Well pleased with their efforts in the cause of
freedom, the self-appointed leaders paid short calls
on the other members of the afternoon’s committee of
action in order to report progress. Mr. Buckenara
was the last to be visited. He still wore his mantle
of pessimistic gloom and revealed little confidence in
the success of the meeting.
“Oh, yes, Jerry,” he said despondently. “We can
hold our meetings and pass our resolutions, but what
notice will they take of us?”
“We’ll make them take notice.” This from
Napper.
Buckenara shook his head. “You don’t know
them as well as I do. There’ll be nothing come of it.”
The apostle of despair turned and walked back
into the station.
“Come back to my joint and have a chat, Jerry,”
invited the schoolmaster.
“Thanks, no. I want to put in the rest of the
evening with the dad. I’ve hardly seen him yet.”
D UT Gerald Bannister did not go straightway to
his father at the Federal; he called instead at the
Eden Guest Home, just opposite Mr. Milligan’s
hostelry.
The Eden was not a pretentious place, but Mrs.
Melhuish, under whose capable control it had managed
to keep its head above water for many years, had
the reputation of being the best cook in Terrigan.
“Permanent and Casual Boarders” was the non-
committal phrase under which Mrs. Melhuish cloaked
this priceless gift.
Jerry’s business did not keep him long, but he
had an earnest and mysterious conversation with two
young men there, on a matter which would certainly
have surprised Mr. Napper, had he known. Dick
Taylor, the bank teller, was a lanky fellow of about
thirty. The other was George Brown, assistant at
the general store. Jerry did most of the talking ; the
others listened eagerly.
“Leave it to me,” said Jerry. “Watch proceedings
carefully, and don’t say a word yourselves till the time
comes. Then you jump up, Dick, and do your stuff.
Are you with me?”
Taylor was rather dubious. “I don’t quite get it.
What’s it all in aid of?”
Brown, too, was doubtful. “What good will it
do?”
“Good? What d’you want to worry about that
for? Don’t you want to see a bit of excitement in
the town —a bit of life?”
“What do you think’ll come of it?” asked Dick,
wavering.
“Nothing, probably; but it’ll be fun while it
lasts. Come on —be a sport. Are you game?”
“You bet!” said Dick warmly.
“And you’ll support him, George?”
“Count on me.”
“Good man!”
D Y lunchtime next day all Terrigan was seething
' with indignation. The “Times” was in evidence
everywhere, and, although it is doubtful whether any-
one troubled to read how to grow cotton and carna-
tions, it is certain that in writing his last-minute appeal
Mr. Napper had not crossed three nibs in vain.
“Seen the ‘Times’?” was the salutation which
could be heard on all sides.
“Yes. The old rag’s giving them Sydney birds
something to think about.”
“Too right.”
“Darn’ cheek, taking a train away like that. Any-
one’d think we was in the middle of the Sahara Desert
or somewhere ’stead of a civilised country.”
The fact that some of the speakers probably hadn’t
been out of Terrigan for twenty years, and often went
for two or three months without either receiving or
sending a letter by the Sydney train, had nothing to
do with the matter. Civic pride had been hurt, and
deep resentment against the authorities welled up in
Terriganian hearts. All day practically the sole topic
of conversation was the night’s meeting.
The Committee of Action did its utmost to keep
the interest alive. The postmaster drifted from place
to place, and everywhere assurances were given him
that the meeting would not fail for lack of numbers.
Mr. Buckenara remained at the station, but a steady
trickle of sympathisers passed in and out of his office,
eager to get the latest news of the tragedy first-hand.
This kindly interest should have had the effect of
cheering the stationmaster up, but instead it produced
an opposite result. By the afternoon he had repeated
his sad story so often that he was really miserable.
Mr. Napper, on the other hand, was supremely
confident. The success of his article in the “Times”
filled him with a glow of pride, and he delivered to
the school an ex tempore address on “Local Patriot-
ism” which lasted fifty-five minutes.
Jerry Bannister was not seen about the town at
all for the greater part of the day. He was scouring
the surrounding country on his motor-cycle, calling at
remote farmhouses and securing promises of support.
It was a dull day for Hiram Pettigrew and a
worrying one for policeman Dansie.
Thomas Peperell, president of the shire council,
reached the town late in the afternoon, and was imme-
diately taken in tow by the postmaster and Mr.
Napper. He was an elderly man, approaching seventy,
and possessed what must have been the only pair of
red mutton-chop whiskers in Australia. He was
escorted to the Federal Hotel.
Other members of the council arrived in ones
and twos and quite naturally drifted along to the
Federal, where Hiram Pettigrew had taken charge of
Mr. Peperell and was relating to him, and to anyone
else who cared to listen, the sad story of his tribula-
tions.
Peperell was liberal in his sympathy. “Scan-
dalous!” he remarked.
“I’ll say it is,” said Pettigrew. “Persecution, that’s
what I call it.”
Mr. Peperell admitted that there was no other
name for it.
CHAPTER 111.
THE Terrigan School of Arts Hall was crowded
out. The propaganda of the committee of
action had resulted in the largest gathering ever
seen in the town. Certainly old bedridden Jacob
Walmer wasn’t there. Nor was Tom Smith, the rail-
way porter. But it would have been hard to name
any others of the townsmen who were not present.
The farmers, too, had rolled up splendily.
On the platform the committee sat in imposing
array. At a table placed dead centre of the stage
sat Mr. Peperell, looking very dignified and important,
a large jug of water and a glass before him, also a
small handbell. Copies of the “Times” were much
in evidence.
On his left was Gerald Bannister, urbane and self-
possessed, though not quite able to conceal his satis-
faction at the result of the muster. On the chairman’s
right sat Hiram Pettigrew.
“Waal, I guess I might as well be in it,” he had
said when invited to take a seat on the platform.
“Looks like an election meeting to me, but I s’pose
you guys know what you’re doing.”
Mr. Napper was close beside Jerry. His usually
sombre face was glowing ; stirring phrases were run-
ning through his brain. It was not often that Mr.
Napper got an opportunity to display his eloquence
before a large audience, and he was looking foward
to it impatiently.
Bannister senior was beyond the American. Also
at the table were the stationmaster, the postmaster and
the editor of the “Terrigan Times.”
Seated in cane chairs about the platform were
the shire councillors, some of them townsfolk, but for
the most part farmers. They whispered among them-
selves, offered each other cigarettes and endeavored
unsuccessfully to convey the impression that they felt
quite at ease.
In the back rows a bevy of young boys sat
munching sweets and peanuts, pushing and pinch-
ing each other and generally prepared for an
enjoyable evening’s entertainment. Their enthusiasm
was slightly damped by the close proximity of Con-
stable Dansie, who stood near the door.
A hubbub of noise filled the hall, and as each
of the town’s dignitaries took up his place on the
platform he was commented on and discussed by the
audience. Public meetings were a rare occurrence,
and Terrigan intended to get its money’s worth.
Shortly after 8.15 Gerald Bannister, who had left
and returned to the platform three times in ten
minutes, was observed whispering to Mr. Peperell.
Mr. Peperell thereupon rose to his feet and tapped
upon the water-jug with a fountain-pen. Jerry supple-
mented this by thumping on the table with an ebony
ruler which he had produced from somewhere. Mr.
Napper murmured “Order!” and the councillors,
looking grave and important, added a chorus of
“Sh-sh-sh! ”
Gradually the noise subsided. Mr. Peperell re-
mained erect and dignified.
“Ladies and gentlemen,” he began amid a loud
outburst of clapping, “there is no need for me to tell
you the reason you have been summoned to this
meeting to-night. The ‘Times’ [applause] has told you
of the indignity that has been thrust upon the town
and district. [A bow in the direction of Mr. Bowden,
which caused the latter to blush and shake his head
deprecatingly and Mr. Napper to stiffen his back
and glow with not unjustifiable pride.] It lies with
you to decide what steps shall be taken to have the
slur removed. We, the members of the shire council,
together with other public-spirited citizens, have called
you together, and we shall place before you various
suggestions. It is for you to accept or reject them.”
The audience shuffled uncomfortably at the
thought of this unlooked-for responsibility, but en-
deavored to look capable of arriving at a decision.
Despite the fact that he had said there was
no need, etc., Mr. Peperell then called upon the
stationmaster to give official confirmation, as it were,
of the disaster.
Mr. Buckenara, no orator but a man of deep
feeling, gave his testimony in a few sad, poignant
sentences, with such success that an angry murmur
ran through the audience and more than one woman
was moved to tears.
Mr. Mutton spoke next. He stressed so well tlu
inconvenience of the lessened postal facilities, occa-
sioned by the curtailment of the train service, that
people whose total mail for the past twelve months
had consisted of a couple of Christmas cards and an
income-tax assessment felt that one of their greatest
necessities had been filched from them.
The chairman then called upon Mr. Napper, and
as the schoolmaster rose to his feet the audience felt
that the real business of the meeting had at last com-
menced.
“Good old Nap!” called a voice from the body
of the hall. The cry was taken up by others and
mingled with the hand-clapping, the small boys at the
back being particularly enthusiastic in grasping the
opportunity to address their master in this familiar
manner.
The chairman allowed the applause to run its
course. Enthusiasm was what the committee most
desired. Presently Mr. Napper raised his hand and
commenced his peroration.
“You have heard,” said Mr. Napper, “our worthy
stationmaster, Mr. Buckenara, tell of the shabby—
I might say the cavalier —treatment he has received
at the hands of his department. The Tuesday train
has been discontinued without even the courtesy of


a notification. One might expect the department,
before taking such a step, to consult the people of the
district, to confer with the shire council, to talk it
over with the business community. Past experience,
however, has taught us that we must not expect to be
consulted over anything, far less a matter that con-
cerns our own interests.
“But,” he paused impressively, “we consider that
even if we are not to be consulted we should at least
be notified. It is quite possible that some of our
people may have been occasioned large losses through
lack of intimation of the discontinuance of yesterday’s
train. I myself was put to considerable inconvenience.
[Another pause.] What do we find? Were we noti-
fied? No! Was the stationmaster told? No! Is
this the way a public servant should be treated?”
Cries of “No!”
“Then there is Mr. Mutton, whose conduct of
the post office has always been a model of courteous
efficiency. Did he receive any notification of the
arrangements? Not a word! Was that fair?”
More cries of “No!”
"Go on Clear out! Out y’ get, Tommy Wilkins.
Hop it, Willy Travers. Go on —all of you. Getl
“Do we value our privileges? Are we jealous
of our rights?”
Loud cries of “No!” from an audience which
was being gradually worked up and was not sure
whither it was being led
, Mr. Napper frowned, but decided to let it pass,
n .i , , ~ , , o . . ~ TT
He then entered upon the body of ms discourse He
iscusse reedom among the Romans. He traced
le evelopment of political thought and peisonal fiee-
dom throughout British history. He fought the Ameri-
can War of Independence, freed the slaves, passed
several Reform Bills and granted Home Rule to
Ireland.
Half the audience was becoming more and more
restless. The other half listened in dull apathy. Those
on the platform endeavored to appear interested.
Jerry whispered a, intervals to the chairman, who
scribbled notes and passed them to the speaker. Hiram
Pettigrew chewed cigars and, except for a few minutes
curing the War of Independence, looked frankly and
utterly bored.
At the third note Mr. Napper looked across at
the chairman and nodded and then proceeded to draw
up the Commonwealth Constitution, after which he
snoke in eeneral terms nnnn the rights and liberties
of cifizens
A fourth note was pushed across to him. Mr.
m Mh and relUCtant,y d r ed ’ ,he " T C hT , b b aCk
ladies and 1,1 Pg ,nv T T ’ ’
10l to deal B ,L ’J I “° n ' 1 kaVe “*°
t as you in .
He sat down amid heartfelt applause which had
not abated when, at Mr. Peperell’s signal, Jerry rose.
Jerry did not say much. After a light speech
which came as a pleasant contrast to the preceding dis-
course he said that the committee would listen with
interest and pleasure to any suggestions those in the
body of the hall cared to make. The chairman
amplified this and asked for proposals.
None was forthcoming. Young men nudged
each other foolishly and wives looked nervously at
husbands in fear lest they should “make fools of
themselves.”
At last one of the councillors rose and suggested
writing a letter to the member for the district.
(Applause.) Another supported this, but thought it
hardly sufficient. (More applause.) He thought a
petition to the Railways Commissioner was essential.
(More applause.) This set the ball rolling, and peti-
tions to the Governor and Premier were next sug-
gested.
Mr. Mutton then pointed out that, the postal
arrangements being affected, a petition to the P.M.G.
and the Federal Government would seem to be
required also. Still more applause greeted this
suggestion. The audience seemed prepared to peti-
tion anyone.
The chairman now remarked that, so many
suggestions having been received, he thought the time
was ripe for someone to propose a concrete motion.
At this Jerry rose and said that, with all due
deference to the Chair, he felt that none of the
suggestions so far made went far enough. Petitions
had been tried before and had been found useless.
Could not someone propose a scheme that would
produce results?
He paused a moment and looked appealingly at
the body of the hall. Those of the audience who were
sitting in the vicinity of lanky Dick Taylor, the bank
teller, were gratified to see him rise slowly to his feet,
“I move,” said Dick, “that this district secedes
from the State of New South Wales.”
There was quite a long silence while this sank
jn taking 4 advantage of it> George B rown
seconded t be proposal. All of a sudden the audience
rea lised the significance of the motion. Through
eacb person’s mind flashed in greater or less degree
some idea of its purport. Terrigan, free for ever
f ro m the tyranny of the central Government—free
to make its own laws to suit its own convenience,
to make its own arrangements for transport, to—well,
there seemed no limit to the possibilities.
Tumultuous applause which seemed to show that
all the previous outburst had been merely routine
affairs broke out. Mr. Peperell and the councillors,
the representatives of constituted authority, were for
the time bewildered. This was more than they had
reckoned on. Mr Peperell, rapping for order, was
saying something about impossibility and uncon-
stitutional. Jerry was on his feet, warmly support-
‘ n S the Mr. Peperell was talking of treason,
Jerry of the glories of freedom and liberty, with the
hall cheering his every sentence.
The ) . shire . counc j! lo y? werc diking heatedly
Ws and 0 , ItTbadt
Dansie was vainly trying to restore order among
the small boys, to whom the turmoil was a heaven-
sen t opportunity for noise and shuffling of feet.
Jerry was down and Napper was at it. The
mot i on had come as a surprise to him, but he was
all for it. Grandiose schemes were unfolding them-
selves in his mind. The noise had died down a little,
and most of the audience were listening. Jerry was
talking quietly among the councillors.
- Peperell interrupted the schoolmaster and
managed to gain control of the meeting again momen-
tariiy at least. He pleaded that the motion was out
of order, unconstitutional—treason, in fact. “King
and Empire,” said Mr. Peperell, “are joined by ties
too strong to sever lightly. We have been harshly
treated, but we must use constitutional means to
obtain redress. Any talk of secession must be
squashed.”
Cries of “No!”
Dick Taylor was on his feet again, and the chair-
man could not but listen to him. No slight on King
and Empire was intended, said Dick. The motion
was for secession from New South Wales, not the
Empire.
The Commonwealth wouldn’t allow it, protested
the chairman.
Then secede from the Commonwealth, urged
Dick. What had the Commonwealth done for Terri-
gan? What had it done to prevent the town being
robbed of its Tuesday train?
Cries of “Nothing!”
The chairman was bewildered. Here were
hitherto law-abiding citizens frenziedly advocating
revolution and practically demanding that he should
lead it. Even some of his own councillors had caught
the mad fever and were asking him to put the motion.
He valued his position and standing in the district
and had no wish to jeopardise them. On the other
hand, the course proposed seemed so fraught with
pitfalls and danger that he shrank from it. A ray of
hope broke in on his bewildered mind. He rapped
for order and, by some miracle or other, got it.
Then he began a diplomatic speech. He agreed
with the general opinion that the Government’s action
was unpardonable (cheers), and that secession seemed
to be the only answer to it (more cheers); but had they
considered the financial side of the question? Did
they realise that Australia’s national debt was
£1,200,000,000, or nearly £2OO per head? Did they
realise that secession meant that Terrigan would have
to take over its share of the debt? (They hadn’t,
but didn’t say so.) Had they any idea what that
would mean? (Apparently not as no one replied.)
He would venture to say it would be somewhere in
the vicinity of half a million pounds. Who was going
to pay that? Where was the money to come from?
(The audience looked at each other in dismay. They
hadn’t thought of that.) Neither Dick Taylor nor
George Brown had any suggestion to offer,
jyf r p e perell observed the silence and deemed the
moment propitious to drive home his point.
“Far be it from me ” he said, “to go against the
wishes of the meeting. Far be it from me to place any
• t t w nrp tWp nf Terripan • but 1 see the dan
money I be the
first tQ fling defiance in the face of the Sydney Govern-
ment? bm in these modern times not hing can be done
without money Ha]f a million! Why, we’d have
nQ hopg of ra f sing it . H alf a million!”
“What’s that in dahlars l ?” broke in a loud
merican voice
Penerell broke off short and turned as did all
, Mr - 1 eperell bioke off shoit and turned, as did all
others towards Hiram Pettigrew.
Wtos that work out in a ats. tepeale
“Two and a half million,” Jerry told him.
“*■*!>«' I’ll stake you Mr Chairman. Go
ahead w,th y’r revolutton. I'll find the cash!”
hJr. Peperell gasped. Tumultuous applause broke
out f rom the body of the hall, while those on the
platform forgot all decorum in an effort to be the
first to pat the American on the back or shake him
hy lh® hand. The situation demanded an instant
decision.
Mr. Peperell made it or perhaps circumstances
made it for him and he was cairied away by the
excitement of the moment. He held out his hand to
Pettigrew,
( Continued on page 50.)


Mr. Lawlor may never have suspected it, you can’t
make converts for a new idea by kicking people on
the shins.
With Lincoln's Army.
Boy in Blue, by Royce Brier (The Bodley Head ;
7s. 6d.), has the unusual feature of a romantic plot
firmly and realistically handled. The period is the
American Civil War. Robert Thane, a likeable young
Indiana rustic, falls in love with a pretty girl of light
character. She jilts him to marry his brother Ezra,
a strong, ruthless fellow, a hero invalided home in
the war s early days. Robert enlists, seeking death
as a release from the pain of his heart. Eventually
he marries a better type of girl whom he meets during
his campaigning. The ending satisfies as a logical
product of the resilience of youth.
Brier recaptures the feeling of the period very
convincingly. He shows the materialism underlying
the humanity of the Northern cause and the bitter-
ness with which the South, in its knowledge of this,
resisted the invaders. The specious moral sanctions
with which men are content under stress of emotion
are shown when Ezra Thane, to satisfy a personal
grudge against his uncle Gideon, shoots him under
pretext that he is a Copperhead, or Southern sym-
pathiser. A Judge acquits him after the thinnest
pretence of a trial, and he is carried shoulder-high
from the court.
The author is excellent on minor detail and
graphic in presentation. In the following there is a
reminder that the armies were civilian volunteers, with
officers, at any rate in the lower grades, elected by
the men on a basis of their estimated ability to lead,
not on their educational or social qualifications.
The column was on the march. A bearded man
with a star on his saddlecloth rode by in the ditch,
followed by three orderlies. He accosted one of Robert’s
officers amiably.
“Been disciplining these men, Major?”
“L’arnin’ ’em to march, sir, or bust.”
“Better keep ’em at route step.”
The general rode on and the soldiers exchanged
smiles.
“Who the ta’nation’s thet daisy?” Yarnish asked.
A good description is given of the negroes stream-
ing north as the Federal Army progresses. These are
passing a member of an advance guard, the first
Northern soldier they have seen.
It was well past three o’clock. On the road running
two miles east Robert met no more negroes as humble
individuals, but a tumbling river of negroes bound for
glory. They dragged carts by hand, bending to ropes of
torn blankets. Some without burden prayed as they
• walked, and some men rode muies, their barefooted
women and pickaninnies plodding behind. They were
all in tatters, their shirts were in tatters, their trousers and
skirts were torn to the knee, and often a black bottom
showed, or the proud heavy curve of a wench’s breast.
They had the insect attribute of swarming without mind,
an animal belly-hope which was terrible, which was sad.
They sang and shouted, they panted, they doffed scraps
of headgear to him as they passed, and bolder ones
touched his sleeve. They wanted to know where they
could see Marsa Lincum in tov/n.
A good, deal of Boy in Blue is devoted to battles
limned from the viewpoint of the leading character
and his comrades, with life in training-camp and
bivouac. The action moves by halts and rushes. In
this, as well as in its realism of detail, it is strongly
reminiscent of Leonard Mann’s Australian war novel
Flesh in Armour; it follows the pattern of war.
Indian Comedy.
R. K. Narayan’s The Bachelor of Arts (Nelson ;
7s. 6d.) is the intimate and homely story of Chandran,
a young Indian, from his last year at Malgudi Univer-
sity till his marriage two years after. It is a record
of youth, told gently, quietly and with humor —a
comedy, but a comedy which leaves us with an affec-
tionate understanding of the characters. It is a book
without cruelty, a study in understanding no less sure
for being gaily done.
The characters are more important than the story.
There is Chandran in his chocolate-colored tweed,
always drawing up complicated plans for his studies
or for his future, but with no energy left to carry
them out. He is so gentle and so violent, so earnest
and so inconsequent. By an immense effort he passes
his examination in Shakspeare and Greek drama,
medieval history and the rest. Now, he thinks, the
future will be unlocked—but nothing happens. He is
no nearer the future. One day he sees a girl by the
river playing with her little sister. He is in love.
Evening after evening he goes to watch her from afar ;
he implores his family to arrange a marriage. He
rages against the formalities of custom but does not
break through them. The girl’s parents are
approached, but they have other plans for her.
Chandran is desolate, he is broken-hearted. For
eight months he wanders about in the yellow loin-
cloth of Sanyasis, or professional ascetic, living like
a holy man on alms. It is both comic and pathetic.
He had never spoken to the girl—it was simply youth’s
dream. He returns and begins his life in earnest. He
gets a job, but it is nothing very fine—an agency for
a newspaper. He draws up elaborate schemes for
securing a magnificent circulation. His parents find
him a wife. He submits to all the formalities to please
them, and then when he sees Susila he falls in love
with her at once. He has taken the long way round
to the common fate —the snug little job, the conven-
tional, respectable life.
Many other characters cluster round Chandran:
the professors who look so different once he has
graduated; his class-mates, such close friends and
good comrades, who are so suddenly and unaccount-
abily lost to him in their own lives once they are
planted out in jobs ; Veeraswami, the most incon-
venient revolutionary ; Mohan, who reads his poetry
aloud almost as incessantly as he writes it; Chandran’s
father, the retired District Judge, and his mother,
religious and fatalistic.
“It is all a matter of fate,” said Mother. “You can
marry only the person you are destined to marry and at
the appointed time. When the time comes, let her be
the ugliest girl, she will look all right to the destined
eye.”
“None of that, Mother,” Chandran protested. “I
won’t marry an ugly girl.”
“Ugliness and beauty is all as it strikes one’s eye.
Everyone has his own vision. How do all the ugly girls
in the world get married?”
The characters are all objectively drawn and
taken for granted. That is how, though of different
race and with differently orientated minds, they yet
seem so natural and real to us.
The life of every society is bound to be a ritual
hemmed in by conventions. We are less aware of our
own than of other people’s. The stranger the scene
the more the ritual of life is thrown into relief. The
Bachelor of Arts has something in common with
another very different book reviewed recently, Son
of Han. They both show youth, despite its rebellion,
being drawn as by a magnet into the stereotyped pat-
tern of life. .
Few books could need an introduction less than
The Bachelor of Arts, for it is both simple and self-
contained, yet it has one, and a very understanding
one, too, by Graham Greeve. He compares Narayan
to Chekhov, but he also says something very acute
when he remarks of the book, “This complete objec-
tivity, this complete freedom from comment, is the
boldest gamble a novelist can take.”
Tragedy in lowa.
Remembering Laughter, by Wallace Stegner
(Heinemann; 7s. 6d.), is in the tragic vein, and if it
has a certain structural weakness it is also remarkably
good in its better parts. It is set in rural lowa, and
deals with a household in which a husband has
indulged in a love affair with his wife’s younger sister.
There is no flying to the Divorce Court; the pride
of the wife, who regards herself as a leader in the
social life of the county, would not permit of it.
She pays a Norwegian farm-hand, her husband’s
employee, to disappear just before the baby is born,
and by implication lets the neighbors think he is its
father, adding thereby to her sister’s shame. The
boy is brought up to think both women are his aunts.
The mentality of the wife is firmly drawn in her
reflections when she learns she has been betrayed.
It was clear to Margaret that there was no triumph
in the two, but that revelation brought her no comfort.
Their misery was the reward of deadly sin, hers was
undeserved, unearned, unbearable. Through the long
sleepless night she lay revolving the bitter cycle from
passionate protest to puritan judgment, transforming
subtly her mad jealousy into puritan censure, shifting
the burden of furious personal affront to the religion
she had been bred in, sublimating her own wrong into
a deadly sin against the Calvanist God. Neither her
jealousy nor her religion would allow forgiveness of
them.
The guilty pair are disarmed by the knowledge
of their sin, and the wife, strong jn her role of victim,
proceeds to blast their lives and her own. Silence
descends on the house. It is one from which laughter
has fled. Nothing is left but the knowledge of a
woman mortally wronged. The outward forms of
courtesy are strictly maintained, but spontaneity of
intercourse is frozen.
There are two unspoken aspects of the situation
that are well suggested: the childless Margaret’s
jealousy of her sister’s motherhood, and Elspeth’s
yearning toward her unacknowledged son. In the end
the knot existing between the eiders is cut by death.
Alec, a man of the full-blooded type, comes in over-
heated one day from the fields and collapses. At
about the same time the boy, Malcolm, learns the facts
of his parentage. He clears out, to seek life in more
joyous surroundings. The two women are left peer-
ing, sharp-featured, from different windows after his
figure disappearing down the road.
This dark story is contrasted with the beauty of
a rich countryside ; a hundred paragraphs and sen-
tences amplify, in their appropriate places, the sug-
gestions contained in this summary of time’s passage.
The years passed like sand under the feet of the
four, the seasons swung in the same long rhythm from
the first robin and the swelling lilac buds to breathless
summer, the metallic trill of locusts and in the evenings
fireflies starring the tangible velvet of the air; from the
dying flame of sumac and soft maple into the long,
pointless waiting of winter, and back to the thrust
of crocus blades under the last snow.
The weakness of the book is in the early part
where the author devotes himself, quite unnecessarily,
to rationalising the foreshadowed act of Alec and
Elspeth ; but even here there are compensations—the
writing is good.
Possessives and Plurals.
A recent item in the “S. M. Herald” was headed
“Mobb’s Millions.” The first two lines of the letter-
press referred to “claimants to the ‘Mobbs’ mil-
lions’ ” ; later the proper name and associated words
underwent a change to “the Mobbs’s claimants” and
“claimants to the "Mobbs’s millions.’ ”
In the letterpress lines “Mobbs” is adjectival, and
should have been printed in the first case without
the apostrophe and in the others without the “’s.” In
the headline the adjectival form would have been
preferable, but if the possessive was intended
“Mobb’s” should have been printed “Mobbs’s,”
M-o-b-b-s being the name of the long-dead Londoner
whose estate, real or imaginary, the “claimants” are
after.
It was formerly customary, when a word ended
in “s,” to write its possessive with an apostrophe but
no additional “s.” Except in a few special cases —in
verse and in poetic and reverential contexts —it is now
correct practice in marking the possessive case of
such nouns (including English names and surnames)
to follow the apostrophe with another “s.” Because
journalists, occasional writers to the press and lino,
operators do not learn to appreciate this fact one
frequently sees the names of Joe Lyons and Billy
Hughes, for instance, put in the possessive as
“Lyon’s” and “Hughe’s.”
On a cognate point, as a proofreader it riles me
to have to correct time after time the writings of
even professional journalists by adding “es” to proper
names such as Hughes when the plural is indicated ;
or to have to puzzle out, in a grouping of pluralised
surnames not ending in “s” (such as Smiths and
Browns), whether the plural or singular is meant in
the cases of names spelt similarly except for the
omission or addition of a final “s” ( e.g., Atkin—
Atkins ; Nicholl—Nicholls.)
Apropos, I have seen it advocated that with all
proper names “the only permissible inflection” should
be “’s,” thereby keeping the name intact. Thus:
Singular: Robinson’s car. Jones’s car.
Plural: The Robinson’s. The Jones’s.
The. Robinson’s car. The Jones’s car.
The primary object of the suggestion is to show the
precise spelling of the name, but I cannot say I’m
much enamored of it. It is true that “Hugheses” and
“Joneses” and similar pluralised forms look somewhat
clumsy and inelegant, but they are easily pronounce-
able, are so pronounced, and follow the rule in regard
to common nouns. The suggested “reform” doesn’t
seem to warrant their abandonment.
OLOGIST.
Reviewed Briefly.
FICTION ...
They Crossed the Reef ; W. Townend (Chapman
and Hall; 7s. 6d.). Man faced with danger, hardship
and possible death through the violence of nature.
Records the individual behavior of a ship’s crew
wrecked on a South Sea island during a gale of more
than ordinary force. A broad and simple theme
treated with insight.
VERSE . . .
Lament for the Death of a Bullfighter and Other
Poems: Frederico Garcia Lorca (Heinemann ; 65.).
These verses are in Spanish, translated into English
by A. L. Lloyd on every opposite page. If Lorca, as
is claimed, was the national poet of Spain, the con-
clusion is inescapable that his work must suffer sorely
in translation. The poet, it appears from some infor-
mation on the jacket, “though an unpolitical person,
was murdered by the insurgents for his friendship with
the people,” but his poetry, it is hazarded, will live
“when future generations have forgotten Franco.”
GENERAL . ..
Where to Catch Salmon and Trout: Bernard
Alfieri and W. J. M. Menzies (Country Life ; 7s. 6d.).
This book covers England, Scotland, Wales and
Ireland, but is packed with detail which should interest
trout-fishers in Australia and Maoriland.


PLAN EAR LIT
TO VISIT
ENGLAND IN 1938
by Orient Line via
Ceylon Aden Egypt
Mediterranean
r
Plans, fare-lists, timetables
and illustrated literature
including details of Round-
World Tours, on application j
•4*j-
ORIENT LINE
ROYAL
MAIL
STEAMERS
ORIENT STEAM NAVIGATION COMPANy LIMITED. INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND
o


ROYAL
PURPLE
PARA
KHnii
m - m -*jf
m i
■
■
\ ■ m
i
ili
mm
m
m
s ■
Hi
m
itt
£ti
Hi
■
111
Hi
■
■i
y - ' ’ <' ,» , v%>
t .
I m
*
Ml
t \Y
Hi
nn
' v $ ■
7A'.*$v ’ f * V ** *
:>■!*¥
■
;
Hi
»
•fvn* r\ ’
* ' >'<'- V' f' -V* 1 1%
M
mmm
%
®PS
y**
r
a
ittM
m
Grape Picking in Seppeit’s Royal Purple Para Vineyard.
.//fieri c Hme oftei>i£ tne/Ieti/neMmidlmtui/uet


TWO CHILD ROLANDS.
Child Roland to the Dark Tower came,
His word was still Fie, foh and fum.
“King Lear.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Gordon & Gotcli (Aus.), Ltd.,
Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Saywell Buildings, 115 Lambton
Quay, Wellington.
London: 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London,
E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 15s. 6d.;
3 months, Bs.
Posted Free to any address Overseas {Foreign):
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 25.; 3
months, 11s.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji, New
Hebrides and other places within the British
Empire, 2d. per copy. United Kingdom via France
or America, 2d. per copy. To all other places, 4d.
DUNSTAN DISHES HIMSELF.
Members of the present House of Representatives
and half the Senators were elected on September 15,
1934, and the Representatives and Senators of the
1928 and 1931 vintages took their seats on October
23. The Victorian Legislative Assembly had its elec-
tion on March 2, 1935, and there is no good reason
why it should be sent to the country before March,
1938. One October election is certainly enough for
Melbourne, which regards October and November
as its busiest months, and which has infantile-paralysis-
scare losses to make up this year. But an accidental
State Government, in which Melbourne has no repre-
sentative, has decided otherwise. So, with other
thoughts occupying the minds of most of them, Vic-
torians will have to go to the poll and vote, first on
provincial and then on national issues, twice in three
or four weeks.
The Victorian election is to come first, the provin-
cial Government having jumped the national Govern-
ment’s claim to priority. It has been an unwritten
law for many years that national and provincial
campaigns shall not clash, but Premier Dunstan has
chosen to break it. It is not the first unwritten law
he has chosen to break.
At the 1934 election the Country party, of which
Mr. Dunstan is leader, was allied with the U.A.P.,
and he and other C.P. gentlemen had for three years
been members of a Ministry headed by the U.A.P.
chief, Mr. Argyle. When Premier Argyle delivered
his policy speech, Mr. Dunstan sat behind him ; there
was no breach in the alliance during the election cam-
paign nor any hint of one till the numbers went up.
Then, the U.A.P. having lost a little and the C.P.
gained a little, it began to be whispered that the latter,
urged on by non-elected persons on its central council,
might grab all the plums of office itself. The U.A.P.,
with 25 members, was still the most numerous of the
three groups into which the House was divided —
the C.P. had 20 members and the Labor party 18,
there being two Independents but this was held
to matter nothing.
Three weeks after polling-day a non-elected
person named Hocking exultantly announced to the
reporters that “ we ” had “decided that we should take
office.” Mr. Dunstan, who had in the meantime
become Deputy Premier, thereupon resigned from the
Argyle Ministry, and on his motion, which was
exuberantly supported by his Labor opponents of
the preceding month and the previous three years,
it was voted out of office. All the parties to these
extraordinary proceedings exhibited extraordinary
phlegm. Having brought his leader down, Mr. Dunstan
took his leader’s place, and by avoiding questions, such
as one-vote-one-value, on which it differs from its
new allies and conciliating them wherever possible,
this minority Government has clung to the Treasury-
benches ever since.
The Dunstan combination was never the choice
of the people, and if the people took State politics
as seriously as State politicians and some of the
newspapers take it, they would no doubt regard it
as an impudent imposition on them. Actually, interest
in State politics has declined so much, and the feeling
has become so general that one Fitzroy Gardens
Government is very like another, that they were in
no hurry to settle accounts with it. If they had been
consulted about a State election in October, they
would have been emphatically against it; but con-
sulted, of course, they were not.
The pretext for this untimely and unnecessary
disturbance of business is an alleged crisis on an
alleged issue of Constitutional reform. The only kind
of Constitutional reform worth a rush is the kind that
would rid Australia or put it in the way of ridding
itself of its six absurd imitations of the House of
Commons and its five absurd imitations of the House
of Lords. Needless to say, Mr. Dunstan proposes
nothing of the sort. His idea is to curtail the powers
of his Siate’s absurd imitation of the House of Lords
by passing a feeble copy of Asquith’s Parliament Act,
the main difference being that measures rejected
by the Council are not to become law unless approved
of by the electors after a dissolution of the Assembly
—the Asquith Parliament Act imposes no such obli-
gation on the House of Commons. This precious
“reform” requires an absolute majority of the Council,
which it failed to get.
The truth seems to be that the Dunstan crowd,
already demoralised by its unlooked-for success in
grabbing and sticking to all the portfolios, was ren-
dered desperate—as desperate as it is in its nature to
become —by difficulties in which its non-elected
Hockings have involved it.
When announcing in March, 1935, that his central
council was dissolving the formal alliance with the
LT.A.P. and, in effect, concluding an informal alliance
with the A.L.P., Mr. Hocking gleefully added that
“this decision cannot be reviewed by General Confer-
ence.” General Conference lately instructed its central
council to join forces with the Australian C.P. Asso-
ciation and drop the vendetta against Minister Pater-
son and other Victorian Federal members and get
behind Dr. Page’s party. For one “reason” and another
(“the minute secretary made a mistake”; “the
A.C.P.A. has failed to observe the conditions”), the
instruction has been ignored. So much branch indig-
nation has been aroused by this impertinence that an
immediate election must have appealed to the ruling
clique, not only as a means of embarrassing Mr.
Paterson and his friends, but as a way of avoiding a
split in their State party. It must also have occurred to
Mr. Dunstan, who is not without shrewdness, that the
certain failure of the C.P. Senate ticket which the
Hocking group, in its fatuousness, has decided to run
would react horribly against the State party if it
preceded the State poll.
In any case, the Dunstan Ministry’s days are
numbered. However the unnecessary election may
add to or take from party strength, three parties will
come back, and government by the least represen-
tative of the three will not be tolerated. The Cockies
will be scraped off the Treasury benches and probably
manoeuvred into sullen support for a Labor Govern-
ment, kept quiet by a threat of redistribution on a
one-vote-one-value basis.
"The White Man's Grave."
The issue of Queensland’s first official year-book
brings into perspective the development of the only
white-man’s country with nearly a million people
which spans a tropic.
N. S. Wales has half its people packed into the
Sydney area. Outside Sydney and Newcastle it boasts
only one municipality with a population exceeding
20,000. Queensland has four district capitals with
over 25,000 people and eight towns over 10,000,
though it has only two-fifths of the N. S. Wales
population.
The further north the statistics move the more
favorable they become. North Queensland, with
195,000 people out of the State total of 978,000,
reported 4127 births in 1936 ; southern Queensland
(mean population, 690,000), only 12,636. The North
Queensland rate was 21.2 per 1000, the Central
Queensland rate 20.3, the southern Queensland rate
only 18.3 ; but even that was better than the Com-
monwealth average (17.13), and better than that of
any other State except Tasmania. And even north-
west Queensland had a rate equal to that of Tasmania,
In Cape York Peninsula, it used to be said,
the white man wilted and the white woman could not
exist. Its 1936 birthrate was 37.1 per 1000. Certainly
the deathrate was 13.5, but this was attributable to
abnormal infantile mortality (57), undoubtedly caused
by dearth of milk supply and of the comforts and
hospital facilities available to town mothers. At the
same time the deathrate in Central Queensland,
crossed by Capricorn, was only 7.8, though its infan-
tile mortality rate was 42 against South Queensland’s
35. The northern deathrate was 8.5 an almost
startling vindication of northern conditions when
compared with 8.9 for southern Queensland, 9.14 for
N. S. Wales, 10.16 for Victoria and 10.34 for Tas-
mania. And death strikes late in the North. Of 8593
persons who passed over in 1936, 2881 were over 70
and 5514 over 50. Another 1000 were young children.
Queensland is certainly no white man’s grave.
Its disease incidence must be nearly the lowest in the
world. The tuberculosis deathrate in 1935 was 0.34
per 1000 ; N. S. Wales came next among the States
with 0.39. In cancer, with a rate of 0.96, the northern
State was again at the bottom of a list where to be
low is to be envied.
With this general advantage in mortality, Queens-
land has shown great industrial development. In
1900, when the black-labor question was being
bitterly fought out, 11.68 tons of cane was cut to
an acre of sugar land, and it took 9.17 tons of cane
to make a ton of sugar. Now the average output from
an acre is 18.47 tons —in a good year it has been up
to 20.46 tons —and less than seven tons of cane is
needed to make a ton of sugar. This year cane taken
off just over 300,000 acres will be worth over
£11,000,000. The tobacco industry has flourished best
in the North, though it has a long way to go. Cotton
in the Central District, on the tropic, yields a crop to
2500 farmers. Dairying has found its way northwards
and driven the Chinese off the Atherton Tableland.
Despite these achievements, there are still Dismal
Jeremiahs who wail from platforms and in the press
that the North is not a white man’s country ; that
the belt from the Kimberleys to Cape Flattery will
never be settled. And credulous people listen to
them, with the result that pearlshell, trepang, trochus,
tunny, snapper, jewfish, mackerel, pilchard and many
other edible varieties prized in the Singapore and
Tokio markets are increasingly fished by Asiatics with
bases 4000 miles away. And while public money
can be found for any wildcat southern plan that
appeals to city politicians as promising a sufficiency
of votes, there is little for the temperate plateaux
behind the Atherton or the rich hinterland at the back
of Cooktown, and none for the fertile districts of
North Westralia, which fringe some of the finest har-
bors in the world.
The Commonwealth, Queensland and Westralian
Governments need to make the Far North a major
issue, and give it, among other things, roads, harbor
works, hospitals and means of getting decent housing
and improving its stock. With all the gallant progress
that has been made, it is still an almost-empty land,
deficient in ordinary conveniences and comforts which
rulers of tropical provinces may be fairly expected to
provide. The conditions under which its inhabitants
labor will have to be drastically changed if the Aus-
tralian ideal of a continent for one white nation is
to be preserved.
The Doctoring Dilemma.
Three Labor Governments are at present actively
concerned with the question of the nationalisation of
medical services on a scale which has not, so far, been
attempted in any other part of the Empire. All explain
that the undertaking is essentially an economic one,
designed to prevent and cure disease and pain as
agencies which interfere with working capacity and
personal happiness, and to lengthen both the effective
working ages and the average life period of the human
communities with which they are concerned.
Put in that way, it represents a noble and praise-
worthy outlook. The Queensland and Tasmanian sets
of benefactors, however, do not produce any evidence
to show that they have taken into account the intricate
financial problems and the vast mass of detail which
require satisfactory settlement before any genuine
success can be anticipated. The Maorilanders admit
that there are difficulties, but seem disposed to depend
on the “good sense of the people” for their solution.
It rarely comes up to political expectation, that good
sense. In Australia it was relied on in the late market-
ing referendum, to the great disappointment of many
politicians.
Queensland has proceeded furthest along the road
to nationalisation. The formula of the Minister for
Health is “more and better hospital buildings.” If
you provide first-rate hospital buildings and good
cooks, Mr. Hanlon argues, nurses and doctors are of no
great importance. Accordingly, a vast hospital-build-
ing scheme is in progress all over Queensland, financed
in part from the proceeds of lotteries, but mainly
from special local rates. A great many people object
alike to the principle and the taxes, considering that
any money available should be put into improving
medical and nursing services. Mr. Hanlon replies that
the medical profession is obviously suspect by the
public, or there would not be so many quacks flourish-
ing in the land.
Mr. Ogilvie, of Tasmania, holds the view that
hospitals are good things to have, so long as they can
be afforded, but that the essential factor is medical
treatment. His Government is to enter upon what
he calls “a reorganisation of health care,” and “at
the beginning of next year 10 State medical officers will
be sent into country districts, for a start.” In Auckland
(M.L.) Mr., Ogilvie was reported to have said that if
he couldn’t get his doctors in Australia he would get
them from England, and if he couldn’t get them from
England he would “bring out some of the Jewish
doctors who have been exiled from Germany” ; but
he has denied that he said anything of the sort. Inci-
dentally, by virtue of a High Court judgment, three
doctors from Germany have been registered as prac-
titioners in Victoria.
Mr. Fraser, the Maoriland Minister of Health, is
proceeding on less forthright lines. His idea is to
improve the personal relationship between patient and
doctor by removing the general cause of irritation
between them, namely, the fee. He is, however, reti-
cent as to what exactly is likely to replace it in the
doctor’s financial affairs, but suggests that everyone
concerned will have full opportunity to represent his
case before the scheme is finally presented to Parlia-
ment. Even then, to select committees for enabling
any afterthought to be settled amicably and equitably.
Here, again, the public is not satisfied. Maori-
landers jib at the prospect of parting up £3,500,000
p.a., and are pointing out that it means an extra tax
of 7d. in the £ on all wages and incomes. Even
the Maori share of the inevitable reaction to such a
bill is politically alarming.
And the doctors? They have not been asked
to say anything about their own disposal, but in the
best bedside manner they collectively assure the gentle-
men who take so much interest in them that they
are always willing to forward the best interests of the
country. What those best interests are they do not
define, but it is definitely certain that the collective
interests of their vitally-important profession are
among them. They are only human.
M. TURLUTU.


PLAIN ENGLISH,
The Mouth- and Pen-fighters.
The “Saturday Review” publishes extracts from The
Bulletin, so The Bulletin doesn’t see why it
shouldn’t publish this very pertinent paragraph from
the “Saturday Review”: —
All those valiant folk who called for disarmament,
who made this country incapable of bearing the burden
of its responsibilities, are now clamoring for war with
the best-organised nations in Europe. They would have
us fight Germany and Italy to establish a supposedly
democratic Government of the Heinz-variety type in
Spain. Then we might have a smack at Japan on
behalf of China.
Somehow our pacifists have got it into their heads
that it is tyrannous to have a giant’s strength, but that
it is excellent to pretend one has it and then use the
iantasy like a giant. A reasonable person would suppose
that a lunatic asylum was their proper domicile.
Such pacifists rage in this country also without
danger of certified. In proportion to population,
they are probably more numerous than the British
variety, and they and their Communist friends have
influential allies. Whereas the British public can pick
and choose, much of the foreign “news” with which
Australia is supplied is furnished by specimens of
the very people who have got on the “Saturday
Review”-er’s nerves. And some obviously proceed on
the principle that while Red dogs can do no harm-
being, indeed, affectionate and altruistic animals—
any stick is good enough to beat a Black dog with.
Pirates, Freelances, etc.
Down to the beginning of the last century smugglers,
freelances and pirates plied their old-established call-
ings in Europe as well as Asia, where they have never
ceased to carry on business. With the advent of aero-
planes, aerial bombs, machine-guns, submarines and
the new technique of revolution, they have come
again, and they have all been operating briskly during
the Spanish civil war.
Both sides have submarines, and, in international
law, both are entitled to possess them. Indeed, both
have the right to buy them at any time from countries
which have recognised one Government or the other,
the Red Government or Franco’s, just as the
Chinese and Japanese Governments have a right
to buy, and are getting, aeroplanes from the
U.S.A. Evidently Franco’s Government has bought
a submarine or two from one of the coun-
tries which have accorded it belligerent rights,
and is using them for attacks on vessels carrying sup-
plies for the Reds, chiefly oil from Russia. The tide
of battle has been running against the Reds ; they are
believed to be short of oil, and if the tanker traffic
can be stopped the civil war may be brought to a
sudden close.
Obviously Franco’s surface craft and aircraft are
joining in this blockade. The means employed are
abhorrent to English-speaking people, but they are in
keeping with the historical character of Spanish civil
warfare, which is utterly ruthless —for previous
examples see Borrow’s Bible in Spain —and the
Great War furnished many revolting precedents. The
Manchester “Guardian” moans that “eighty Russian
vessels in the Mediterranean have been held up, dam-
aged or sunk,” but protection of Russian vessels is
Russia’s business, not Britain’s. The “Daily Herald”
has information from the captain of the Soviet steamer
Timiryazef that his ship was “torpedoed by an Italian
destroyer marked ‘T.B.,’ ” and the “News-Chronicle”
has published a photograph of a destroyer marked
“T.B.,” and the “S. M. Herald,” whose credulity in
these matters is boundless, believes all hands. It
blithers in a leader: —
The only information which might give any clue
to the unknown pirates is the sinking of a Russian
merchant vessel by an Italian destroyer.
If an Italian destroyer really did the sinking, even the
Russian Government, though things are going badly
with it at home and abroad, would have to take
action. If it did not immediately break off diplo-
matic relations with Italy, it would at the least
send that country a Note demanding punishment of
the commander of the destroyer and ample repara-
tions. Nothing of the kind has occurred. Even in
the venom its newspapers have spat at Mussolini
there is no mention of “the sinking of a Russian mer-
chant vessel by an Italian destroyer.”
It is a fact, however, that a torpedo was fired
by a submarine at a British destroyer, the Havock, out-
side Valencia. The torpedo missed its mark, and the
Havock promptly replied with depth charges, which
may or may not have taken toll of the now-submerged
pirate. A little later a so-called British tanker, the
Woodford, was torpedoed near Valencia and two
Soviet ships were sunk in the Aegean, about 1400
miles away. The Woodford was carrying Rumanian
oil to Barcelona. Though flying the British flag, she
is owned by Greeks and manned by Levantines, and
this seems to have been the case with most of the
“British” merchantmen that have been attacked.
It was, of course, taken for granted by news-
papers which side with the Valencia Government
and are full of admiration for the Russian Govern-
ment that the torpedo that missed the Havock was
fired by a Franco sub. It may have been (though an
emphatic denial came from Nationalist headquarters),
for no doubt there are crazy fellows fighting for Franco
as well as for the Reds ; but it seems rather of a piece
with the bombing of the Deutschland and the mining
of the British destroyer Hunter. The Russian Govern-
ment would like nothing better than to get British
protection against Fascist Powers, and to the Red
mind, which works in a mysterious way, it might
seem that sinking a British warship in the night and
attributing the vile deed to Fascists would bring it
off. And the scum of the earth is at the Russian
Government’s service.
In any case, where the defence of legitimate
British interests is concerned, the Royal Navy can be
trusted to attend to pirates. It always did when pirates
were comparative gentlemen, and it is perfectly capable
of scotching piracy in the new form. So there is no
occasion for good people to get excited about it, even
though pacifists and professors, foreign correspondents
and home leader-writers go off their rockers.
Tasman Sea Defences.
The one remarkable feature of Maoriland’s defence
reorganisation plans is their broad similarity to those
being carried out in Australia ; it is a hopeful sign for
future relationships that two Governments repre-
sentative of different parties can reach this measure
of agreement. The Savage Government is Labor,
but in the matter of defence it is wisely content to
refrain from isolated experiment and to co-operate
in the common interest with other parts of the British
Commonwealth. Unfortunately, Australian Labor has
other views.
Maoriland has a national emergency organisation
similar to the Commonwealth Defence Council. It
is also forming a Council of Defence, which, like the
Australian body, will act in a general advisory capa-
city. Each of the three Maoriland services is to be
controlled by a board represented on this council,
along with the Prime Minister and the Minister of
Defence.
Air-Force expansion has been proceeding in
Maoriland much as it has in Australia, and plans for
greater mechanisation of Maoriland land forces also
follow Australian precedent.
The Savage Government proposes to raise rates of
pay for attendance at instruction courses. In other
respects it has evolved nothing that is likely to in-
crease the personnel of territorial forces to any marked
extent, which is just where Australia’s last defence
reorganisation fell short of the hopes of the politicians
responsible for it. But other points of similarity are
heartening.
The Wool Season Opens.
Japanese did not operate at the opening sales in
Sydney, unless indirectly, and there was little excite-
ment in the buying for other nations. The truth is
that the offerings were not of a type attractive to
Japan. Moreover, Japanese buyers learned from their
study of the market last year that they can do better
by waiting till the season has advanced somewhat.
It is certain that they will come into later September
or October sales. Buying in certain local quarters
suggests that the trade knows this very well and that
there will be speculative holding, though not on last
year’s scale, against rises when Japan and U.S.A. are in
the market and other countries are competing, especi-
ally for finer crossbreds.
Japan, under its agreement' with the Common-
wealth Government, will take 500,000 bales, and Mit-
subishis’ representative in Australia says his country’s
manufacturers could use a million bales for mill
requirements if it were not for the adverse trade
balance. If a serious war should develop out of the
Chinese business, with the inevitable winter campaigns
and wastage, not only Japan but Russia and Ger-
many will be looking for more wool. In any case,
there is no ground for nervousness. With about
100,000 bales more for probable auction, the trouble
will be not to sell Australian wool this season but to
fill the demand.
There may be a certain amount of concerted
resistance to price-rises, such as exists in U.S.A., but
it will certainly prove ineffective except as a salutary
brake on artificial rises. The overseas tops markets
remain firm.
Sydney prices show an advance of Jd. to Id. per
pound over June rates. In some cases they were 30
p.c. higher than opening-sale prices last season, and,
on the average, they have made a 20 p.c. increase,
quality for quality. One Walgett (N.S.W.) clip from
Lolleep brought 4d. more per pound in ewe lines,
s£d. more in brokens, sd. more in piece and sd. more
in bellies than September prices for Lolleep fleeces.
Moreover, where poorer lines all round were scarcely
saleable at the beginning of last season, this time they
sold with normal steadiness.
Over the whole season it will be surprising if
prices do not show a rise of Hd. to 2d. a pound over
1936-37 rates.
Four New Services.
Last week saw great changes in Australia’s commer-
cial flying. On August 30, the new Douglas D.C.2
14-passenger machines were placed on the Brisbane-
Adelaide line. They will run daily, Sundays excepted,
and schedules provide for early-morning starts, stops
at Melbourne and Sydney and arrival at the terminals
in daylight. Thus Brisbane and Adelaide morning
papers will be on sale 1300 miles away before dinner.
And passengers from Adelaide will be in Sydney in
time to do an afternoon’s business.
Adelaide becomes a sort of aerial Clapham Junc-
tion, a jumping-off place for services to Perth (W.A.),
Darwin (N.T.), Broken Hill (through Renmark and
Mildura), Melbourne (by a direct route and via Mt.
Gambier, also via Mildura), Sydney and beyond
(via Mildura and Hay, also via Melbourne routes).
The new machines are all in the 200-m.p.h. class.
One of the Lockheed Electras on the Broken Hill and
Darwin runs has flown from Broken Hill to Mel-
bourne in 2hr. 15min., touching a ground speed of
245 m.p.h. frequently and averaging 215 m.p.h.
Aeroplanes are now definitely in advance of land-
ing-grounds, which continue to be a disgrace, and
equally in advance of training facilities for pilots
and beacon facilities for routes. With the time in sight
when Australia will be seven days from London and
three days from China, Mascot still has a single gravel
runway which big ’planes and little ’planes, autogiros
and joy-riding obsolescents, fast mail ’planes and
training Moths share in an atmosphere of irritated
democracy which must be unique in the world.
It would seem that officialdom is determined
that Australian aviation shall succeed only in the face
of the greatest possible difficulties. Where other
countries are spending millions on ground organisation,
Australia is still grudgingly spending thousands. The
multiplying of such expenditure by ten for at least
three years would be not only a fine defence invest-
ment, but could be made commercially profitable.
In a year or two 20 or 30 big commercial
machines per day will be landing on busier capital
aerodromes. And when the air-taxi era arrives on
the scale on which it is operated in Europe and aerial
mail and freight-carrying becomes general, as it must
within five years, the existing congestion will, at the
present piecemeal rate of aerodrome building, become
chaos, and the present inconvenience will be changed
into heavy risk.
Assessing Brain Values.
New Education Fellowship speakers drew pointed
attention in Melbourne to the community danger of
starving universities of funds, and Dr. Priestley has
given their remarks a local application by resigning
his position as Vice-Chancellor because of “the general
financial situation of the University.”
In the days of Tommy Bent, market-gardener as
he was, Melbourne University development was
assisted by comparatively liberal Government grants.
The subsidy per student amounted to £24 6s. in 1906
and to £l7 14s. in 1913 ; in that period the number
of students rose from 865 to 1244. By 1921, when
they totalled 2195, it had dropped to £lO 12s. The
1929 grant of £45,000 increased it to £l7 45., there
being 2620 students; when the grant was whittled
away to £36,000, it fell to £l2 6s. per head. Subsi-
dies for students at U.K. universities average £44 a
head.
Victorian grants appear to have been fixed with-
out much regard to facts that should determine the
disposal Of public funds. To-day, when the Govern-
ment is handling an annual revenue exceeding
£25,000,000, and its University has more students than
ever before, £47,000 is to be provided. This is called
“restoration,” but the “restoration” bears no relation
to the number of students, to their numerical propor-
tion to the population of the State, or to the modern
necessity for extension of training and research
facilities.
As an official appreciation of brains, the “resto-
ration” parallels the Ministry’s announcement that a
whole £2OOO is being set aside to pay the salaries of
nine more scientifically-trained Department of Agri-
culture officers. If these men follow precedent, they
will leave for better-paid berths as soon as they are
beginning to be of some practical value to rural
Victoria, just as Melbourne University professors are
leaving for less arduous and more remunerative posts
at other British universities.
•
One More Board.
Victoria has joined the happy band of States which
have Egg Boards.
Under Egg Board regulations the fowl-valet still
has liberty to buy his farm, stock it, grow feed (or
get it somehow), disinfect his fowls, treat their ail-
ments, sit beside his incubators, pay rates and taxes,
go bung and generally live a free, unhampered life.
But he doesn’t own the eggs. “As from August 16
all eggs produced for sale are, and will be, the property
of the board.”
Hen-fruit can he delivered only to licensed
agents, who get Jd. per dozen for grading, candling
and packing, and 4 p.c. for selling. Anybody with
more than 25 hens who takes a shilling for a dozen
eggs to oblige a neighbor had better do it in the
dark. . He is a thief, stealing the board’s property.
And he must deliver hen eggs clean, otherwise he
may be charged 2d. a dozen for having their faces
washed.
If an agent pays money to him direct it is to be
regarded as an advance from the pool, which will
“adjust payments” at the end of the year, when the
balance sheet comes out. As the board has begun
making announcements through a lavish advertising
campaign, it is possible that he may be asked for
something back at the end of the year. One advertise-
ment in a Melbourne journal would have paid the
cost of grading, candling and packing 800 dozen eggs.
Eggs must be sold at official prices, “published
daily in the leading daily newspapers.” And “the
leading daily newspapers”—indeed, all newspapers—
will have to watch their step, for any paper that pub-
lishes as official any price other than those supplied
by the board becomes “guilty of an offence against
the Marketing of Primary Products Act.”
A large section of the serfs of N. S. Wales’s Egg
Board is chronically dissatisfied, and the Auditor-
General makes dry references to the size of the over-
draft guaranteed by the Government. Victorians may
do better if their hens are as profuse of eggs as the
board is of words. One regulation:
37. (1) Any officer, servant or employee of the
board duly authorised by the board in that behalf may
from time to time, and at any time by notice in writing,
order any producer resident who owns or controls, or
has at any time during the period of 12 months immedi-
ately preceding such notice owned or controlled more
than 25 fowls, or upon whose premises there are, or
have been at any time during such preceding period as
aforesaid, more than 25 fowls, to furnish to him a return
in or to the effect of Form 5 of the Schedule, setting
out the number of eggs produced by such fowls during
such period or periods as may be specified in such
notice, the manner in which, and the names and
addresses of the person or persons to whom, such
eggs were disposed of. (2) Such return shall be signed by
the producer so ordered, - whose signature thereto must
be duly attested by a justice of the peace.
There is something to be said for Hitler, as a stylist,
anyway. He swept away the old Constitution of the
Reich and established anew one in 27 words.


Society
"AND ITS PRINTED WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Cinna”: Brisbane has one distinction
all its own ; it is the only city or town
in Australia (or possibly in the whole
British Empire) that possesses a “Poets’
Club.” I don’t know what are the quali-
fications for membership, apart from
paying a subscription; but I like to
think of an erudite-looking committee,
in horn-rimmed spectacles, solemnly
examining a candidate’s credentials, in
sonnets, rondeaux, villanelles and pos-
sibly even free verse, to determine
whether or not he (or she) is a fit and
proper person to be admitted to the
premises “which bards in fealty to Apollo
hold.” It would be interesting to know
if any mere poetaster has ever been
blackballed for injudiciously aspiring to
a place in this certificated nest of singing-
birds.
# :»c % %
“Cadet H.”: Recent mention of quaint
hotel names set me thinking of one in
Cambridge, England, during the war. On
the outskirts of the town was an inn
which proclaimed per medium of a large
and colorful sign that “The Man Loaded
with Mischief” was prepared to dispense
hospitality to all and sundry. The swing-
ing sign depicted an exhausted and very
worried male struggling under the burden
of carrying pickaback a lady of Gar-
gantuan proportions and mischievous
countenance. We were very young in
those days, and few of us were able to
appreciate the admonition which the pic-
ture conveyed.
* * $
“Hanko”: This nudist stuff the tittery
press is featuring nowadays makes me
feel like a pioneer of the cult. When I
was one of a fettling gang out towards
the sunset, we stripped to the buff at
every rainstorm, and our exercise was
leapfrog. In working hours? Too right.
Out on the plains the permanent way
sub-inspector’s motor-trike was mirage-
magnified 10 miles off into a floating
chariot, and our clobber was always shel-
tered handily under a piece of tarp. That
was 15 years and more ago.
* * * *
“Kwakprak”: Press and politicians are
doing much harm and no good by bally-
hooing infantile paralysis as a grave
national danger. They would be more
usefully employed in trying to obtain in
Australia re-education schools for all
classes of child-cripples, such as that at
Leeds, where three out of every four
treated regain the use of their limbs.
There are over 200 such schools in
Britain. They do not “treat the paralysis,”
but they re-educate the disabled muscles
to the full extent to which they are cap-
able, depending on the number of un-
damaged nerve-cells. Also, and more im-
portant, they secure the full conscious
and subconscious co-operation of the
patient in the matter. It is highly compli-
cated and delicate work, with a deal of
psychology in it, but its results have
been amazing. There is a fine oppor-
tunity for a wealthy Australian to found
such a school.
* * * *
“Loyalty”: An obliterating stamp of
the Postal Department reads: “Use Aus-
tralian Products.” And yet only the
other day the Postal Tender Board placed
an order for a supply of lead pencils with
an American firm.
* * * *
“Harold Hardupp”: Sawmill em-
ployees may be a mixed lot; but what
about the taxi-drivers? An ex-actor (F
know of three ex-theatricals who are
driving taxis) told me that at his depot
(he drives for one of the big companies)
there are a doctor, an ex-lawyer, an ex-
parson, an ex-bookmaker, a chemist, two
university students, a surveyor and an
architect, besides an assortment of ordi-
nary tradesmen. I don’t know how the
university students get time for study,
unless they do it while waiting for fares.
* * * *
“J.L.”: There was certainly no lineal
descendant of Admiral Phillip present at
the unveiling of the Phillip memorial in
Bath Abbey in June last (B. 25/8/’37).
“I might have known it Was jerry-built .”
Phillip, who was twice married, left no
family. The Rev. Arthur Phillip Lance-
field is a grandson of Mrs. Mary Ann
Lancefield, who was one of the residuary
legatees of the second Mrs. Phillip. The
reason for the choice of Viscount Wake-
field to unveil the memorial is surely to
be found in the fact that he was the
donor of that other handsome memorial
in the church of St. Mildred, Bread-
street, London, which bears a portrait
bust of Phillip and reliefs of scenes at
the settlement of Sydney Cove on January
23 and 26, 1788. The time that elapsed
before Phillip’s contemporaries forgot he
was buried at Bathampton cannot now
be estimated, but it was in 1897 that the
Bathampton rector rediscovered the in-
scribed slab on the floor of his church.
V sl' 5 I' T '•*
“Bill”: If I were asked to pick the
best-known Frenchwoman in the memory
of Diggers I would nominate Joan
of Arques—no connection with the
sainted heroine. The town of Arques
straddles the main highway between the
Channel ports and many war fronts that
were. The river and canal are spanned
by a bridge in the middle of the town,
and Joan was the keeper. Whenever she
spied a string of hospital or commercial
barges coming from either direction her
job was to turn a handle and let them
through. I have seen colonels roaring
mad at her for opening the bridge before
the barges were handy and the land
traffic was piling up. But all their roar-
ing would pass over Joan's pretty head
without ruffling a hair, and the rank and
file used to barrack for her. During four
years the troops of all nationalities who
passed over the bridge must have
amounted to millions, and they all came
to know Joan. She won proposals
from all sorts and ranks, from lieutenants
to lance-corporals and military jacks,
and she passed them all on with a smile
and a joke. Yes, all of us loved Joan,
I sometimes wonder whether some young
Lochinvar came out of the west and gal-
loped away with her far from St. Omer.
* * * *
“James K.”: Our local Douglas Credit
crusader was haled before the P.M. for
disturbing the peace at 1 a.m. by invit-
ing all and sundry, through the loud-
speaker on his car, to visit the district
hall on a specified evening and hear an
exposition of the economics that “saved”
Alberta. Questioned by the Beak as to
the reason for his unearthly choice of
hours, he answered: “If I’d gone round
at nine o’clock nobody would have list-
ened, but, startled out of their sleep at
one in the morning, they couldn’t help
hearing.” Ten shillings, with costs. The
rnllortinn at the moetinn which was
collection at the meeting, wmen was
packed, yielded four quid.
* * * *
“Larra”: Don’t know where the late
General Crozier met with those bolt-
t, . /r) i . •. .
ing Portuguese (B. 25/8/ 37), but it inust
have been a fair distance behind the lines.
At dawn on April 9, 1918, we were rest-
ing, and actually comprised the third
line of support. Two hours later our
position had become the front line, A,
B and C squadrons of King Edward’s
Horse, composed entirely of overseas
troops, taking the brunt of the Fritz
advance, which incidentally cost us 75
per cent, of all ranks. The first intima-
tion we had of anything amiss was the
sound of increased artillery fire in what
had been a particularly quiet sector and,
more as a courtesy gesture than any-
thing else, had been handed over to the
Portuguese. Ten minutes later our
Iberian allies were stampeding towards the
rear. Every one was weaponless, having
discarded anything likely to hamper his
wild retreat, and after all attempts to
stem the panic had failed we spared five
minutes to speed the fugitives on their
way—with rifle butts and boots. I believe
the 51st Cameron Highlanders repeated
the dose 10 minutes later before com-
ing up to our assistance.
* * * *
“L. de F.”: The question as to why
widows should be more numerous than
widowers (B. 4/8/’37) is easily answered.
The average bride is several years the
junior of her ’groom, so that he starts
behind scratch. Add to this that occu-
pational and industrial risks to life are
far higher among men than women. And
in all countries civilised enough to keep
records more female babies survive than
ma l es>
"* * * *
“Ex-Mister”: Brisbane’s waterside was
puzzled the other day by a house-flag on
the foremast of the Brocklebank cargo-
wallah Mangalore, instead of in the
usual place on the aftermast. Mild chaff-
ing of the skipper was countered by the
disclosure that Thomas and John
Brocklebank, Ltd., of Liverpool, is the
oldest shipping firm in the Empire, and
has the Board of Trade s official permis-
sion to fly the house-flag on the fore, in
order to show pride of place to the mush-
room upstarts of later days. Another in-
teresting feature about the ship is that, in
depression days, she was cut down in
length by 39ft. in order to save tonnage
dues on an extra hold, 15,000 tons meas-
urement. The experiment was so success-
ful that four more of the Brocklers were
treated similarly.
* *
Wodgil : In a captious moment,
somebody wrote a par. condemning the
current craze for leaving out the den-
nite article, as in Gloria Figlealie,
glamorous film star, has divorced Issy
Piggruntz, famous motion-picture direc-
tor, whose fourth wife was San Pad-
rosky, daring strip-tease dancer. There
are times when this clipped English is
preferable to the profuse editorial style
in which there are too many thes. Take
this example from a Granny Herald
leader, denouncing
the deliberate selection of the non-comba-
tant as an object for an aerial attack, as
has recentl y been don ? by t be Germans and
Italians in Spam and by the Japanese in
China. The unspeakable holocaust of
Guernica, the ancient and undefended capi-
tal of the Basques, made the world recoil
w ‘th horror. The Japanese perpetrated
an equally barbarous outiage on the con-
science of humanity by deliberately mas-
sacring from the air several hundreds of
defenceless Chinese refugees,
“Granny’s” facts, as well as her English,
are open to question. “The unspeakable
holocaust of Guernica,” reported by a
London “Times” correspondent, was
denied by another and by the Germans,
an d external evidence suggests that the
gentleman was dropped by his own office.
Anyway, the outrages imputed to “the
Germans and Italians in Spain” and “the
Japanese in China” amount to a general
indictment against nations with which
Australia needs to be on good terms ;
and every leader-writer ought to be ac-
quainted with the passage in which
Burke inveighed against the folly of
drawing up such general indictments,
Take out the “thes”—“by Germans and
Italians in Spain and by Japanese in
China”—and the words would cease to
have the character of a general indict-
ment, while remaining insulting to the
alleged and unknown perpetrators,
* * * *
“Bray Rock”: “Got some bonzer sar-
dines in,” said' the storekeeper to-day.
“Canadian. Zack a tin. But if you want
something really tasty, try some of that
tinned Italian tunny fish. It’s a bit
expensive— two bob a tin—but there s
nothing else like it on the market.” Two
days before I’d sailed through acres or
tunny, feeding on sardines. Same tunny,
practically the same sardines. I bought
a tin of each. They were excellent,
There was just over a quarter of a pound
of tunny for the two bob, and as a fair-
sized fish runs up to 5001 b. of tinnable
flesh it set me wondering whether any
other people than Australians could have
avoided making fortunes out of the hsh-
canning industry for all this time. Yes,
I’m just as silly as the rest. But its to
be hoped we wake up in time to torestaii
the Japanese factory ships.
TABOO.
“Convicts, like bushrangers, are to be taboo at the
150th anniversary celebration. .. .Mr. Dunningham
suggests that we should forget them, but to pretend
that they did not exist is hardly to forget them or
to induce others to do so.”— “S. M. Herald.”
Come, brothers, let us drape a kindly curtain
Over the patriotic brotherhood
Who, various forms of lawlessness expert in,
Were shipped across the sea to where they
could
Claim (and occasionally prove for certain)
They left their country for their country’s
good.
Let any reference to them be taboo
In next year’s anniversary shivoo.
When all the stage is set for advertising
Our hundred-and-a-half historic years,
We want no figures from the past arising,
No wolfish Gabbetts and no Maurice Freres,
To make the banquet taste less appetising
Or spoil the flavor of the wines and beers.
’Tis good to think we shall be spared at least
Grim skeletons in leg-irons at the feast.
Forget them, chaps, the lags in prison cages
Whose backs the cruel cat was wont to mark,
The undesirables who haunt the pages,
A grisly gallery, of Marcus Clarke;
And let these memories of bygone ages
Sink mercifully back into the dark.
Whate’er was ours of birthstain or of blot
In time of carnival were best forgot.
And those bold outlaws, famed in fact and
fiction,
Starlight, the Marstons, Gilbert, Hall and co.,
Down to the Kelly gang, our last affliction,
These less-repulsive ruffians, too, must go.
The ban is on them, and the interdiction,
For Mr. Dunningham has willed it so.
When Sydney’s birthday joybells rend the air
They all will be as if they never were.
Convicts and highwaymen—our modern ver-
sion—
They went their ways of sin and paths of
crime,
Ending too frequently in an excursion
With pinioned arms some scaffolding to climb.
They left their mark, it seems a safe assertion,
Upon the social history of their time.
But when next year our speakers haw and hem
About the Empire’s brightest diadem,
It’s well agreed they’ll never mention them.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“C.G.C.C.”: When the film “David
Copperfield” was recently shown in a
country town in western N.S.W., another
picture, “Smokin’ Guns,” was also billed.
The advertising poster was a four-
sheeter, and the bottom sheets, by some
accident, got transposed, with the result
that the public read that “David Copper-
field” was a “hard-shootin’, hard-ridin’,
fast-lovin’ story of life on the desert
wastes,” and that “Smokin’ Guns” was
“the immortal Dickens story, ‘shot’ as
Dickens would have wanted it.”
* * * *
“Ranker”: Girl workers in a Sydney
factory who struck recently when a
fellow-worker was appointed forewoman
objected to her because they would rather
have had someone “who knew less about
them.” That spirit has always been the
cross of the. “ranker.” In the old regular-
service a man commissioned from the
rank and file invariably was given his
“ He's holding out for more pay."
new start in a strange regiment. It can
easily be understood that a man who
knew all the multitudinous tricks of the
Thomas Atkins trade and had practised
them himself was regarded with suspi-
cion when he attained a position which
gave him the chance to employ his know-
ledge to what T.A. considered an unfair-
advantage. In the A.I.F. this attitude was
not nearly so marked, since, as the war
went on, many officers rose from the
ranks. Nevertheless, the same spirit was
discernible sometimes, and wise was the
“ranker” who forgot the past when he
mounted his badges and slipped at once
into his new environment.
* * * *
“Fong Tsz”: The Chinese have the
reputation of being a roundabout people
linguistically, but their military terms are
forthright enough. An army corps is
chun, a division shih, a brigade lu, a
regiment t’uan, a battalion ying, a com-
pany lien. A captain is shang wei, a
private teng ping. Infantry are pu ping,
cavalry ch’i ping, and military police
hsien ping—they have been called far-
worse than that in most languages.
* * * *
“Ente Marid”: Tree-lovers who have
been persecuted by Sydney bumbles
grinned the other day when retribution
struck one of the despoilers.
For a long time any timber
which overhung a fence in the
suburb of Mosman, even if its
lowest leaves were 30ft. above
the ground, was anathema to
Authority and an invitation to
it to send men with ropes and
axes. The other day the maimers
cut away a branch about 15in.
inside the property-owner’s
fence. In short order the coun-
cil found itself explaining in
court. The owner said that “the
balanced setting and privacy” of
his property had been spoilt and
its value depreciated £5O. The
council said the garbage men
had complained about the
branch, so, without consulting
the owner, it had sent for the
executioner, who committed a “techni-
cal breach.” The s.m. chopped £5 with
11s. costs out of the council’s bank ac-
count. The ratepayers, of course, find
the money.
* % * *
“Claverton”: Women and girls, says
a cable, scrambled wildly for the stub
of a cigarette which Robert Taylor, the
film actor, flicked from his balcony on the
sixth floor of a London hotel. It sets
one thinking of Calverley’s verses on a
troop of schoolgirls fighting desperately
for the stones from the plateful of cherry-
pie that had just been bv the
Prince of Wales, later Edward VII.: —-
One large one —at the moment
It seemed almost divine —
Was got by that Miss Beaumont,
And three! oh three! are mine.
Royalties and beauty actors obviously
distance all others as objects of feminine
adoration. One may wonder if the glasses
out. of which the late King drank in Aus-
tralia, long treasured in not a few places,
have sustained any diminution of value
in the eyes of their possessors since
Edward VIII. threw away a Crown.
* * * *
“Sakit Prut”: Those Canadian strikers
who annoyed the police by throwing hives
of bees at them were anticipated long ago
in the Huon River district (Tas.). A
gent, had made himself so objectionable
at a timber-getters’ dance that the com-
mittee took drastic measures. After a
lively scrap, they threw him down the
steps and chased him beyond stone-range
of the hall. The festivity continued until
a loud, defiant shout from the entrance
signalled the pariah’s return. Under one
arm he bore a parcel wrapped in a bag,
and as the committee converged upon
him he raised it aloft. “Bees, you blan-
kards! ” he yelled as he hurled it amidst
the circling throng, departing thereafter
"He prefers doin' it that Way , boss — the paint don trun down his sleeves."
at speed. And bees it' certainly was, a
particularly bad-tempered lot of Italians,
belonging to the M.C., as fate would
have it. And they landed nearest to
his wife!
SP ❖ % :*c
“Hook”: I dislike picking technical
flaws in the armor of experienced story-
tellers, but the statement of Will Lawson
in “The East Wind” (B. 25/8/37) can-
not go unchallenged. I venture to say
that no captain living—except in a dan-
gerous emergency —would order “hard-a-
port” in such seas as depicted by the
author. In rough seas it is desirable to
use as little helm as possible. “Bring her
round gradually” is the accepted idea.
Actually the danger lies not in applying
helm, but in removing it. When a ship
is rolling heavily it calls for great skill,
plus a little luck, to take off thirty de-
grees of helm without going very close
to foundering.
* * * #
“The Casquets”: The “Mayfair Play-
boy” who was arrested when planning
to tour the world in a 50ft. yawl was re-
ferred to in the cables as “son of the
Dame of Sark.” That is the title
accorded the owner of the tiny island.
In the case of a male having acquired
the fee-simple, which is negotiable in the
market together with the “title,” he is
styled “Seigneur of Sark.” The Seigneur or
Dame administers justice, and is allowed
to levy a duty on the export of fruit and
other produce. No motor-car has ever
been seen on the island, and the little
gaol hasn’t accommodated a malefactor
for years.
* * * *
“Warrigal”: Brass-hat inspections (B.
25/8/37)? As a militia company-com-
mander I was harassed for years on
quarters and equipment, especially while
1 was young enough to try to have every-
thing right instead of concentrating on
superficial eyewash. An ex-imperial
sarge-major gave me the tip, and ever
afterwards all that was necessary was to
spit-and-polish the approaches. Then a
spot of oil or an unburnished stirrup-iron
was left in a conspicuous spot as a red
herring. Once the inquisitors found
something wrong, they departed con-
tented ; otherwise they searched until
they did find it. Major-General Fuller,
the “Unconventional Soldier,” relates that
he always pinned his faith to a cob-
webby hurricane-lamp in the stables,
* * * *
“6236”: While not questioning what
“Alpha” (B. 25/8/’37) has to say about
the traditional silver mountings of the
Highland dress of a century ago, I main-
tain that ffi other respects he confuses
past with present and the civilian get-up
with military uniform. For the last 40
years the Gordons have shown four
varieties of sporran on ceremonial parade
—the officers’ full dress, with gold top
and gold tassels ; the sergeants’ (which is
also the officers’ undress), with copper
top and “bells” ; the rank and file, with
heavy brass mountings ; and the pipers’,
with silver mountings. I wrote as one
of the rank and file. The Seaforths’
sporran arrangements are, to the civilian
eye, similar, but the other three High-
land corps are less metalliferous. The
cap and collar badges, however, are
silverlike in all five regiments, probably
a survival of the old days. Finally, but-
tons and “lace” of all regular regiments
have been of gilt or brass since the ’six-
ties, Rifles always excepted.
* * * #
“Lorna”: The word “cobber” (B.
25 /8 / ’37) did not come originally from
Yiddish, but from an old Hebrew word
“Khover.” Hebrew and Yiddish, of
course, are two distinct tongues, the
former the old classic language of the
Jewish race and the latter a form of low
German. Hebrew is used in all syna-
gogue services throughout the world.
* * * *
“Jus”: Crown Prosecutors —Judges,
too —are always trying to impress on
juries that they mustn’t be swayed by
such sentiments as compassion or pity.
Still, even Judges, as well as juries, are
human, and it’s just as well they are.
“The circumstances of the case were
rather pathetic,” a C.P. told a Sydney
jury last week, “but you must not allow
sympathy to override your duty.” And
at about the same time, in another court,
a Judge announced, in straining a point
to give a merciful decision, “I am per-
haps letting my heart rule my mind, and
I do not want this to be taken as a
precedent.” Queerly enough, the two
utterances appeared on the same page
of the evening paper.
* * * *
“Roche”: At the Australian Medical
Congress in Adelaide Professor Harvey
was reported as having stated that “it
was becoming hereditary not to have
children” (“Argus,” 25/8/’37). It seems
up to some other professor to explain
through how many generations the habit
of being childless can persist.
PERPLEXING.
In Vic. the Labs, campaign apace
Each day and hour and minute
To block the U.A.P. from place
And keep the Cockies in it.
At Canberra a diff’rent thing
Is seen. In firm alliance
The U.A.P. and Cockies fling
At Labor ranks defiance.
It’s queer, you must admit it’s queer,
The meat one chap enjoys on
His board should in a wider sphere
Become another’s poison,
And on one front while A and B
To cook C’s goose are planning,
Upon another A and C
Are giving B a tanning.
These politics, my blanky word!
Are tangled things and muddy,
Needing, as Pickwick once averred,
Considerable study.
And in the present quandary
The sentiment 1 find most
Applicable to parties three
In mixed accord and enmity
Is (simply and expressively)
The Devil take the hindmost!
N.S.W.
IFORD.


CK{ Av
A
For real quality Tobacco...
and for your throat’s sake
—smoke
CRAVEN A
ARE made specially to prevent sorejthroats.
2 Oforl'6
10 for 9 d
POLITICAL POINTS
In spite of the wonderful triumphs won
by the “Age” at the late election, the
Vic. Leg. Council heaved out its Con-
stitution “Reform” Bill. Dunstan “blames
the ultra-conservative element.” Some
people would call Dunstan an ultra-con-
servative. It’s about the mildest thing
his present allies will call him when they
and he part company on the one-vote-
one-value issue.
Dunstan has induced an unnecessary
Excellency to dissolve an unnecessary
provincial Parliament. Dunstan is a
leader of the Country party, which is
allied with Labor against the U.A.P. in
State politics and with the U.A.P. against
Labor in Federal politics. What a fright-
ful thing it would be if he lost his memory
and talked to the electors as if he were
still in a U.A.P. Ministry, as he was in
1932-35!
Evidently in all seriousness, Dr. Harris,
Dunstan’s leader in the Leg. Council,
referred to the Assembly as a one-vote-
one-value House. It is just as well for
Dunstan that it isn’t.
Two millions more for pensioners;
200,000 altogether for “youth employ-
ment.” Pounds, of course ; not votes.
The youths have no votes; the pen-
sioners have 300,000.
The “Argus’s” name for Casey’s latest
financial performance is “Brave New
Budget.” It gives another £2,000,000 to
pensioners and proposes to borrow
£2,500,000 in London “for defence.”
What’s brave about it?
Casey’s American notes, expanded in
newspaper articles, are not quite as in-
teresting as those of Dickens, but he
made an interesting discovery:
A deficit in the American sense is differ-
ent from a deficit in our sense, for the
American deficit figures include all loan
expenditure.
If this - were done in Australia, even
Stevens and Forgan Smith, who fancy
themselves as financiers, would have to
report annual deficits of £4 a head or so
in “good” years.
In the matter of adding loan expendi-
ture to deficits “Follow America” will
never be the slogan of Australian Treas-
urers. “Follow Britain” is sometimes
beefed out, but not where following
Britain would mean dispensing with hosts
of unnecessary politicians and officials —
i.e., in recommending the adoption of
the British system of one supreme Parlia-
ment with unchallengeable powers.
Pre-selection is endangering the
U.A.P.’s hold on Federal seats, particu-
larly Ballarat. F. L. Edmunds stood last
time with Fisken, and polled so well
that Fisken got in On Edmunds prefer-
ences. First-count figures were: McAdam
(Lab.), 17,725 ; Fisken, 11,856 ; Edmunds,
10,752. Second count: Fisken, 21,746 ;
McAdam, 18,587. Obviously Edmunds
should be given another chance, but 90
delegates of U.A.P., A.W.N.L. and
Young Nat. branches have turned him
down. Certainly their nominee, Walker,
stands well with the returned soldiers,
but the U.A.P. may have reason to regret
that it deprived Walker of Edmunds’s
second votes or Edmunds of Walker’s.
Martin (N.S.W.) is another seat which
U.A.P. bob-a-nob pre-selection has
placed in danger. McCall, the sitting
member, has been described as the poli-
tical answer to a flapper’s prayer, but he
is no idol to older people. There is a
big Labor vote in the electorate and a
still bigger betwixt-and-between vote, and
if the betwixt-and-betweeners have no
U.A.P. alternative to McCall faith in
the efficacy of the young female’s prayer
made be rudely shaken.
Sydney County Council employees are
forming one of those co-operative build-
ing societies whose overdrafts and—er —
possible losses are guaranteed by the
good kind Sydney Government. They
have begun with the blessing of one of
the councillors, Cramer, who said he was
“afraid,” not about their co-operative
building society but about others—
Afraid that some of those who have
attempted to organise some of the others
have not been imbued with the spirit of the
Act, public service, but rather iook on it
as a means of making money.
Surely not! Even if they are in the
building and land-selling businesses, they
are all altruists.
If only out of regard for Curtin, some
mutual friend (if any) should tell Lang
that he is past the age at which Labor
leaders can reasonably expect to reach
office. Watson was P.M. at 37 and ex-
member at 43. Fisher, three times P.M.,
retired from politics at 53. Holman be-
came Premier at 42, “automatically
placed himself outside the movement” at
“Treasurer Casey pleads that his London loan is only a little one.”
“Even if a fellow has taken the pledge a quick one shouldn’t hurt .”
45, and lost his seat at 49. Even Billy
Hughes, long as he reigned, had to give
up being P.M. at 57, and his Labor
associations had ceased when he was 5~.
Lang is just on 61. He can never come
back, and his record and the towering
passions he works himself into spoil
things for younger men. Besides, tower-
ing passions are bad for elderly gentle-
men’s blood pressure.
Maoriland Labor’s troubles are begin-
ning> Government guarantee of dairy-
produce prices cost between £600,000
and £700,000 the first year. Nash
b as suggested to taxpayers that they
ought to be glad to foot the bill. Those
whose taxes and costs have been in-
creased to pay for the first instalment of
Labor measures fail to see it, nor are
the cow-farmers giving any special exhi-
bition of gratitude. Their costs, as well
as their taxes, have gone up, too.
With the devaluation of the dollar,
Queensland’s annual tribute to Uncle
Sam has been reduced. In interest and
exchange it amounted to £457,697 Aus-
tralian in 1932-33 ; this fell to £299,553
Australian in 1936-37. All the same,
American loans —Theodore introduced
them —were very bad business for
Queensland. The £299,553 Australian
was paid on $18,971,500.
Back in Maoriland after a visit to
Australia, Bob Semple, the Minister of
Works, mentioned that “the system of
government in the Commonwealth leads
to confusion, as there seems to be a con-
stant conflict between State and Federal
Parliaments.” Perhaps only a senti-
mental regard for his native land pre-
vented Semple from saying that in
Maoriland there can be no such conflict
or confusion, and that Maoriland has
thus an immense advantage over Aus-
tralia.
A borrowed £lOO,OOO is to be spent on
“taking 10ft. to 15ft. off the top of
Burrinjuck (N.S.W.) Dam to make it
safer.” Ten per cent, to 15 p.c. should,
at the same time, be taken off the Aus-
tralian governmental structure, which is
also top-heavy. This would cost no-
thing ; on the contrary it would be a good
start towards the saving of millions and
the securing of simpler and better gov-
ernment.
Sydney’s City Council has lost £50,000
on 170 flats built (at an original cost of
£138,728) “to solve the housing problem
for city workers.” Now the Sydney Gov-
ernment is preparing to lose God knows
what on “218 flat units, estimated to
cost £227,000,” in Erskineville, likewise
“to solve the housing problem for city
workers.” The Master Builders dryly
state that no private investor would put
£lOO,OOO into them. Another descrip-
lion of the scheme is “that it is a con-
tnbution to slum-eradication, but such
flats and many more that are going up in
Sydney will be slums in the next genera-
_ npr u„ nc • t u p n ~ vt rirrurip
tion, perhaps in the next decade.
In the House of Reps, the other day,
a voice from the past was heard declar-
ing that “the Scullm Government had
“saved Australia,” and citing “men of
intelligence and capacity,” unnamed, as
witnesses. It belonged to Scullin. The
Bulletin’s private opinion is that the
Australian people “saved Australia.”
A Glorious Press abstract of the Brit-
ish Note to Japan on the bulleting of the
Ambassador: — 1
The Note requests (1) a formal apology
for the incident, (2) suitable punishment
for the culprits, (3) an assurance against
any recurrence of similar incidents.
The full text, which arrived hard on the
publication of the “abstract,” did not
contain a word about an apology or
punishment. The Foreign Office never
descends to the provocative phraseology
of clumsy correspondents.
Politicians’ facts are always more im-
pressive than politicians’ fancies. In-
veighing against Casey’s London loan,
which is to follow Stevens’s London loan
“for the Water Board,” Scullin said:
“Let us not begin again the perilous and
dangerous path of overseas borrowing.”
And, addressing Casey:
If you continue this policy, which en-
courages the importation of goods we can-
not pay for, we will have high interest
charges without a sufficient balance of ex-
ports to meet them. Then you will have to
impose high taxes and go in danger of
bankruptcy.
That was his own bitter experience.
Unless Casey is restrained once and for
all, it may be the bitter experience of a
future Treasurer when Casey is only a
name and a memory of a suit of clothes.
A Canberra correspondent—the Mur-
doch group’s man —reports that “the
Government’s electoral prospects have
improved,” and attributes the improve-
ment “mainly to the increase in the basic
wage and also to the good rains.” Hither-
to it has been supposed that “God sorts
out the weather and sends rain.” They
must be going to claim that they do it.
Tas. Premier Ogilvie, who talks too
much, has been blithering on the sub-
ject of foreign immigration:
It is apparent that one of the reasons
why such large numbers of Southern Euro-
peans are coming is because of the lower-
ing of living standards brought about by
the Premiers’ plan and unemployment.
The Premiers’ plan and unemployment!
As if that wasn’t fatuous enough, Mr.
Ogilvie tried again:
It is noticeable from the figures quoted
that, when standards are being gradually re-
stored, the loss through British migration
becomes less.
“The figures quoted”—he quoted them
himself —show that excess of departures
over arrivals of people of British stock
was 5857 in 1932, 3832 in 1933, 3124 in
1934, 3313 in 1935, 2495 in 1936 and
6729 for the first half of 1937.
The scale of the Japanese “naval
operations” at Shanghai may be judged
by the age, size and armament of the
Japanese flagship in the Whangpoo. She
is the Idzumo, of the 1899-1904 class,
9180 tons, 16 knots speed, four Bin. guns
and 14 6-inchers. Any modern cruiser
at sea could tear her in pieces in 10
minutes.
Yeats-Brown, the “Bengat Lancer’
man, has been visiting Franco’s Spain
and writing his observations for the
London “Observer.” He was told that
the Nationalists have 700,000 soldiers,
of whom not more than 4 p.c. are
foreigners; and the foreigners, “chiefly
Italians,” are “enlisted in the Foreign
Legion,” a regular body of troops “raised
17 years ago” and officered entirely by
Spaniards.
The International Brigade in the Red
zone is wholly foreign and is commanded
chiefly by French and Russian officers.
How many? We believe that 75,000 fight-
ing men have crossed the French frontier.
M. Helsey of the “Journal” has stated that
15,000 Frenchmen have already fallen in
the Communist cause.
After a long course of Australian news-
paper cablegrams, it seems hard to be-
lieve, but “twenty reliable and experi-
enced men” assured Yeats-Brown that
“the Nationalist news is true.”


“THEY SHALL NOT PASS!”
“To prevent half a million Victorian children carrying infantile paralysis into N. S. Wales, a Watch-on-the-Murray has been established by Sydney police.”


Ouh. (Zak&L^cufA
WE COULD
m.
HAVE
FED THE
MULTITUDE
. . . with our daily bread consumption!
40,000 loaves a year over 100 a day—my. what a
lot I White bread, brown bread Vienna loaves raisin
loaves, all are there Of course the Victoria Palace is
the largest and most modern hotel m Australia Last
year, we served more than a million meals Tariffs are
reasonable too—4/- to 7/6 Single room 8/- to 167-
Double room
201-229 LIT. COLLINS STREEI MELBOURNE C 1 (Next_Town_HalQ_
VICTORIA PALACE
SMOOTH MOTORING
DEPENDS ON SPARKING PLUGS
Champions
-YOU CAN
DEPEND ON
Jtt
%
gHliiri
Miwm
nwwm
V.WA
wfew. *
5£
To enjoy SMOOTH MOTORING you must
keep your car’s ignition always at its best.
Good strong sparks are as necessary as good
fuel. For best results and the greatest econ-
omy, install new Champions every year
An Empire product —
made in Windsor, Canada
M
Obtainable at all leading
automotive supply dealers
PESONAL ITEM!
Queensland’s new Senator, taking the
place of J. V. MacDonald, will be Ben
Courtice, a Bundaberg canegrower, who
won the selection from a field of 23.
Courtice took out his ticket in the Labor
party when he was 14. As a member
of the State Sugar Advisory Board he
draws a small allowance, which makes
it an office of profit under the Crown,
and he nearly missed nomination. A
telegraphed resignation settled the diffi-
culty. Courtice will be a Senator until
next June whatever the result of the
Federal elections in October.
For some undisclosed reason, the
Queensland central (Labor) executive
would not allow Jim Dooley, former Pre-
mier and Speaker in N.S.W., to contest
the ballot for the Senate vacancy. Jim
had an unbroken run of 20 years’ mem-
bership in N.S.W. Assembly until he
fell foul of the Lang group in 1927, but
for the last two or three years in his
native Brisbane has been without success
in his efforts to break into politics again.
Latest Melbourne University professor
to look for a better-paid job is Vice-
Chancellor Dr. R. E. Priestley, off to a
similar berth at Birmingham. Victorian
W. K. Hancock, who as Professor of
History has written excellent books on
Australia, will be there to greet him.
Starting as an apprentice with the Syd-
ney Hydraulic Engineering Co., A. E.
Phippard had a turn as engineer on a
tinmine, served the Air Board producing
aeroplanes, and linked up with the motor
industry before settling down as works
and sales manager for the machinery
firm of William Adams. Now he is
A.E. PHIPPARD.
managing director at 48. Away from
the office he retires to the outback humpy
built in a little bit of the Australian bush
he has developed in the grounds of his
home at Killara.
For the first time in its history Mel-
bourne “Argus” is to have a managing
editor —Errol Knox. Knox began on the
Sydney “Sunday Times,” enlisted as a
private in 1915, rose to be an Air staff
major and returned to become, in rapid
succession, news-editor of the old “Daily
Telegraph,” managing editor of the now-
defunct “Evening News,” a director of
Associated Newspapers and editor of the
Australian Year - Book, “Newspaper
News” and the last two editions of Who's
Who in Australia. There’s a dashing air
about Errol which will blow papers about
in the corridors of the “Argus” building.
D. G. Macdougall, secretary of the
council that is looking after the 150th
anniversary celebrations, was the editor-
owner of the Dalby “Herald” at 16. He
Celebrations Organiser.
worked with various Queensland papers
until 1916, when he became the
Y.M.C.A.’s publicity director. Later, as
financial campaign organiser, he raised
over £1,000,000. Next move was to
Melbourne as secretary of the Alfred
Hospital. Shifting to Sydney about 10
years ago, he linked up with appeals for
benevolent and public bodies, and has
helped the N.S.W. State Government to
run official celebrations.
Sydney barrister Frank Letters is a
man of them. One of the only
five Sydney Uni. graduates to take first-
class honors in classics, he is lecturer at
the University in Latin and Greek, is
qualified to teach French and German,
and has a good working knowledge of
Spanish and Hebrew. At the Melbourne
centenary celebrations, Letters took
second place for a short story. He is a
regular contributor to the “Poetry
Review,” and a book of critical essays on
Greek and Roman verse is at present in
the hands of London publishers.
Last of the syndicate of seven which
founded the fortunes of the Broken Hill
Proprietary, Philip Charley has gone out
at 74. Born at Ballarat, Charley was work-
ing in a solicitor’s office at Melbourne
when he was advised for the good of his
health to seek an outdoor life. He was
a station hand on McCulloch’s Mount
Gipps station when McCulloch got his
hands together and formed a syndicate
to peg out the Hill. Charley was then 20.
He sold half his interest next year for
£lOO. Two years later only four retained
their interest. It was Charley who dis-
covered that, instead of low-grade lead
ore, the Hill held chloride of silver. Ten
years later he bought Belmont Park, near
Richmond (N.S.W.), and settled down to
breed stud stock. He also owned Nar-
rung station, S.A., and, taking an interest
in the Light Horse, became a major in
the old Hawkesbury Lancers.
Death has taken another old Queens-
land Labor stalwart, J. T. Gilday, who
was in the movement from his teens. He
drifted up from his native Ballarat in the
middle ’nineties and was soon a leading
light in the meat-industry unions. In
1912 he won the Enoggera seat from
A. G. C. Hawthorn, Home Secretary in
the Kidston-Denham Governments, and
later sat for Ithaca till 1926, when he was
outed by E. M. Hanlon, now Home Sec-
retary and Minister for Health. Gilday
was a good platform man. For some
years he was a director of the “Worker”
and of the now-defunct “Daily Stan-
dard.” After his retirement from Par-
liament, he started business as a butcher
at Paddington, but three years ago be-
came night-watchman in a Government
building.
Dr. E. G. Malherbe, the South African
here with the New Education Confer-
ences, can turn a neat phrase. Follow-
ing eloquent outbursts of admiration by
several N.E.F. colleagues about the view
from Mt. Wellington (Hobart), and refer-
ences to the pride Tasmanians and Aus-
tralians must surely feel in their citizen-
ship of such a beautiful country, he said:
“When 1 gaze on this marvellous pano-
rama of loveliness my heart is full of
pride and thankfulness that I am a citi-
zen of this —Southern Hemisphere.”
Bill Phipps says:
Ex-Premier Prendergast (B. 1/9/’37) was the
father-in-law of Eric Harrison, the actual
founder and pioneer of the Australian Flying
Corps. Harrison was a motor mechanic in
Melbourne, and when in England with Hawker
worked with the Bristol company, then in its
infancy. Hawker soon became a noted airman,
and it was he who recommended Harrison for
the job of forming with Petre, the inventor of a
monoplane, the nucleus of the A.F.C. Har-
rison brought out a Bristol, and Petre came
with his ’plane. They put up a tent and a
mess marquee at Point Cook, and the little
show was started. Harrison has been in
England for a couple of years for observation
purposes with the R.A.F., and is now on his
way back to Melbourne. He has always been
a safe flier, and a practical man with ground
and air machines.
Years sit lightly on David O’Keefe,
who three years ago became Speaker of
the Tasmanian Assembly at 70. D.J.
was a Senator in the first Federal Parlia-
ment, and, with one break of four years,
remained there till 1919. Three years
later he went into the Reps, for Deni-
Speaker O’KEEFE, of Tasmania.
son, but lasted only one term, Gellibrand
getting his seat. He was nine years out
of Parliament until he found a seat and
the Speakership in the State House.
A. R. McComb is flying to London to
represent the Commonwealth in discus-
sions concerning details of flying-boat
bases between Singapore and Sydney. A
Brisbane Grammar boy, he was in
France with the A.I.F. engineers before
transferring to the Australian Flying
Corps as a pilot. Controller of ground
Authority on Airports.
organisation for the Civil Aviation Board
since it was formed in 1936 he has
crossed Australia by air at all angles,
and has flown to New Guinea and Singa-
pore. He will study modern airport de-
velopments in other countries before re-
turning about six months hence.
C. J. McKeon, who becomes Queens-
land Director of Agriculture, was trained
at Gatton Agricultural College, inter-
rupted a farming career to go to the
war and returned to a field-assistant’s
job in the Agricultural Department. He
spent some time in special research at the
Waite Institute (Adelaide), and has been
Director of Tropical Agriculture for the
past two years.
The A.L.P. candidate for Wentworth
(N.S.W.) is Captain Thomas Patrick Con-
way, a native of Maryborough (Vic.). He
has lectured on military science at Syd-
ney University, was a member of the
N.S.W. War Council and D.A.Q.M.G.
for Queensland, and his evidence as a
ballistic expert has been heard in the
N.S.W. Supreme Court. Harrison,
U.A.P. holder of the seat, will find him a
good battler.
Dr. Edward James Brooks, now super-
intendent at Newington State Hospital
(N.S.W.), is a graduate of Sydney Uni-
versity. He entered the public service in
1911, and before the present lift-up came
he was medical officer with the Workers’
Compensation Commission. The experi-
ence gained there, plus a healthy interest
in sport and a cheerful nature, should
help greatly in the new job. The doctor
is a son of a former police superintendent
well known to Sydneyites a decade or so
ago.
Dead in Geneva, city of lost causes,
Pierre de Fredi, Baron de Coubertin,
founder and life president of the Olympic
Games. It was the founder’s idea that
the Games would further the amity of
nations and maintain in unassailable
purity the spirit of amateur sport. The
altruist was 74 at the end.
P. W. Shannon retires from the
Queensland Land Court Bench after 54
years in the service. He became a clerk
in the Lands Department in ’B3, and was
on the Land Board staff from its founda-
tion in 1885, serving as secretary, regis-
trar, chief clerk and Under-Secretary for
Lands until 1914, when he became a
member of the Court.


Did you know that in
EVERY CAPSTAN
CIGARET
. there are
Jm
jM
#II|P
'llll l “"I
mm
[l If I [i i
In':
j, Ilf 11 sit • •
JlWi'li"
m
mm
m «
HE
m
Wfflii
m
ss?A\
m
SSSS33S!
as
83S
■Hi
llllfe
mm
sin-
m
OF
i
nia leaf
BLEND
TIME FDR A
Capstan
SPECIAL MILD
| 6239.-8-7


ABORIRGINALITIES
BLACK & WHITE WISHY "PURRY GOOD!"
“Atrax”: To recent Bulletin comment
on the dietary and other qualities of
Jackie Kookaburra, I can add personal
testimony that he is probably the hardest-
headed bird in the continent. Recently 1
fitted glazed sashes in the weather corner
of the verandah. This morning, after the
usual sunrise chorus in the hickories, one
of the choir decided to take a short cut
under the verandah. His battering-ram
struck a 15in. by 12in. pane, and shat-
tered it into splinters. Jackie ’planed
through, landed on a bluegum branch,
wobbled slightly and chuckled. Powerful
glasses failed to show, at 50ft., any blood,
or even a disarranged feather, and the
pickaxe beak retained its customary con-
tour. A few tiny wisps of down on a
glass splinter represented his total dam-
age. I am puzzled to know why he
didn’t break his neck—and sorry he
didn’t, with glass at present prices.
* * * *
“Fish-tale”: At Paloona (North Tas.)
waterworks pump the water-supply for
the town of Devonport, and over a sheer
cement wall, about 10ft. high, falls a cur-
tain of water. Young whitebait, barely
3in. long, find no great difficulty in scal-
ing this wall." They get on the edge of
the falling water and wriggle up a few
inches at a time. Possibly a certain
amount of suction close to the wall aids
the fish in their ascent.
* * *
“Notaden”: A feature of this curious
winter season has been the occurrence of
numerous white rainbows in the Darling
Downs (Q.) and New England (N.S.W.)
country. They are seen either in early
morning or during a mist or light shower,
and depend on the fact that the amount
of light reaching the bow is not sufficient
in intensity to show the spectrum colors
produced by refraction through the tiny
water drops. The broad, well-defined
white arch, often with a secondary bow
within, is quite a remarkable sight, and
looks a much more solid affair than the
customary brilliant variety. In mediaeval
Europe they were supposed to foretell
war or pestilence—a fairly safe guess in
those days—and, according to the best
contemporary advice, indicated the need
for burning the local Jews, in order to
avert the risk.
* * *
“Salmon Gums”: A queer old char-
acter of Westralian road gangs was Tim
Hooey, a specialist in stepping distances
and a marvel of accuracy at the job.
He’d never ask for a job, and if no
voluntary request were forthcoming for
his services he’d move on to where some
cocky wanted a piece of clearing meas-
ured up. The figures he carried in his
head in travelling day after day along
a main road would have bewildered a
mathematician. He’d step out a dozen
paddocks in a day, over cleared and un-
cleared ground, and at the end he’d have
the dimensions of each and 1 never
knew his estimate to be questioned.
Whether he simply judged the distance
with his eye or counted his steps and
arrived at the result by some obscure
method of computation I don’t know.
* * * *
“Tadron”: Don’t know of a more
ctupid simile for describing a blind rush
than “like a bull at a gate.” Any bulls
of my acquaintance, when knocking
down a gate, merely walk up to it
placidly and, having sized it up, proceed
to lift it off its hinges. First the head
is thrust between the battens and, after
some juggling, off comes one hinge, and
then it’s plain sailing to move the second.
I once saw an old Shorthorn —a veteran
at the game—spend two minutes on a
gate before he realised that the hinges
were bolted down. Undaunted, and with
the patience of Job, he spent an hour on
another gate before he met with success.
Bulls on the warpath don’t charge any
obstruction, but keep their energy for
pitching into the other fellow, contenting
themselves by bellowing a little propa-
ganda in making their approach.
* * *
“Nagheer”: The artificial harbor now
under such slow construction at Mackay
(Q.) —its eventual capacity to weather
cyclones is extremely uncertain —has one
quality which secures popularity for it
among anglers. Just now the breakwater
is a great gathering-place for herrings,
and herring is the star item of the menu
“Yes, a bloke d go barmy in a place like this if ’e didn't have an obby of some sort."
for big mackerel. A haul with a hoop
net will supply enough bait for a morn-
ing’s fishing, and the results are such as
to make a Sydney bream-artist’s eyes pop
from his head. A herring, threaded on a
wire trace with no sinker, is thrown out
as far as the easy-running gut line allows
(plus luck and skill), and then trailed
slowly in. If a mackerel sights it, the
sensation is like hooking a submarine in
a hurry. Quite average catches run from
10 up for a morning, each fish going
from 151 b. to 401 b. or more. But her-
rings are migratory, and the mackerel
mostly move with them, northwards.
“Ngaio”: When Henare was haled be-
fore the Court on a charge of stealing
from a local fowl-farm he loudly pro-
tested his innocence, and was asked by
the s.m. if he had any witnesses. “Easy
to see you never steal te rooster,” said
Henare, beaming indulgently upon the
Bench. “T’at’s te time you not take te
witness. I always ko py myself.”
# * *
“Hanko”: Magpies and butcher-birds
are maddening fowl —they can sing and
won’t. For months magpies may forage
round a place, opening their beaks only
to utter plaintive “margs” at the tucker
shortage, and the butchers are equally as
mute. Camped in s.-e. Queensland I had
three blackheaded butcher-birds pension
themselves off on me, and once only in
a six weeks’ stretch did they extend me a
concert, a five-minute affair at that.
Never yet has an overseas visitor gone
into raptures over our songbirds, and
yet, if our magpies and butcher-birds
alone could be persuaded to sing day-
long, those golden-voiced warblers would
make this country famous.
* * * *
“Nikko”: We were picnicking on a
bank of the Whau Creek, near Auckland
(M.L.), and had settled ourselves beside
a large tussock of rushes, into which I
was idly looking when I noted two bright
eyes gazing at me from the dried stems.
Putting my hand gently in I drew out a
downy brown chick, striped in a manner
that made detection among the coarse
grass almost impossible. Another chick
was found, then more, until a dozen of
the wary, silent wildings were in a basket.
Mother, having safely parked them on
our approach, was invisible. We let them
go, and they all ran immediately to the
rushes and melted from sight. We moved
our picnic-ground: mother, stepping deli-
cately, came from up the creek, collected
her delightful little family and hurried
off to less-populated regions. A bevy of
quail.
“Cudgerie”: I don’t know what foun-
dation “Anthropo” has to support his
contention that “lubra” is of African-
American origin (B. 25/8/’37). It is
certainly applied only to Australian abo.
women. It is probably one of the many
aboriginal words the origin of which is a
mystery because the tribes, who used it
no longer exist. “Kangaru” or “kan-
garoo” is another example alleged by
Cook to have been used by the Endeavour
River blacks. As regards “piccaninny,”
this is of Spanish vintage —pequeno nino
meaning little infant —and can scarcely
be regarded as inapplicable to little
Binghis. The nearest approach I have
seen in abo. to it is “Pittagoo,” indicating
“small boy or girl” in the dialect of the
Cape Bedford and Mclvor River (N.Q.)
blacks.
**' * *
“Waranbini”: A bird of many aliases
is the rufous-breasted whistler, whose
other monikers are thick-head, little
thrush, ring-coachman, echong (from its
far-reaching note) and thunder-bird. A
peculiarity of the handsome minstrel is
that it answers claps of thunder with a
flow of melody. The discharge of a gun,
which usually startles and silences other
birds, also sets it going. Dad Whistler,
who shares the work of incubation, will
respond melodiously, as if delivering a
hymn of praise that he wasn’t struck
stiff, even while sitting on the nest. His
relative, the golden whistler, merely re-
marks after the explosions, “Did you
hear that?”
* * * *
“Aerogenes”: If “Cooramin” (B.
18/8/’37) wants to see a ploughing com-
petition he should trot along to the Agri-
cultural College near Gatton (Q.), where
they put on at least a junior edition of
his trial of skill. In November the senior
students try hard to convince the
examiner that they really can plough,
with single- and multiple-furrow horse-
ploughs, and also with assorted tractor
outfits. The young agriculturist ploughs
very well—if he doesn’t unfortunately
choose a wandering cow for a back mark
Again, in July the college celebrates its
foundation day with a programme of
rustic sports which includes real plough-
ing matches, with ploughs tractors,
horses and harness all painted and pol-
ished, and often they perform under the
eye of his Excellency. Other items are
tree-grubbing, post-hole sinking, potato
planting, woodchopping and the Clydes-
dale Derby, when about 12 tons of active
horseflesh shakes the earth in a “sprint.
. . ,
“Koombooloomba : Have been visited
lately by the alleged marsupial tiger in a
flying camp about 18 miles from the
Tully Falls (Q.). He was slightly larger
than a fox-terrier, with white coat and
large black spots. He raided the galley
every night for a week, and was twice
seen in daylight, but never gave a chance
for a shot. An ordinary native cal,
greyish-brown with white spots, and no
bigger than a half-grown tame cat, shrn
ui the same locality, had five kittens in
the pouch. Is this a record?
* , ,
“Xo”: Maoriland lost one of its oldest
inhabitants when Percy, the tame Christ-
church tuatara, who was probably an
old man when the white settlers first
arrived, pegged out the other day. He
can’t be blamed for that. Over the last
70 or 80 years he had suffered, with
apparent indifference, the monotony of a
never-ending parade of curious human
beings—and even a tuatara can become
bored. People who like the sound of a
nice round figure say Percy was 2000
years old, but R. A. Falla, who knows
as much about tuataras as anyone living,
says this is just a guess. Apparently
there is no way of telling a tuatara’s age
after he loses the dull green and yellow
markings that denote an approximate 30-
year infancy. Another reptile was kept
under pakeha observation for about 50
years, and the Maoris tell of a Motiti
Island specimen which thrived for close
on 300 years. These survivals of an
earlier age are still found m their natural
state tslandsjn *
“R.W.D.”: Watched a solitary wasp
dealing w ith a spider almost as large as
After administering the quietus
ma( j e sev eral ineffectual attempts to
ta^e w j t k p re y Deciding that it
wa§ toQ h eaV v she set to work with her
p ower f u i mandibles, neatly snipping off
spider’s legs close to its body,
jj lus lightened, the carcass was portable,
ant j i nsec t Diana bore it off.
* * * *
“y. Ting”: Frost-fish (B. 18/8/’37),
belonging to the family Trichiuridce, in-
habit "the deeps of the Atlantic, Indian
and South Pacific oceans, and are occa-
sionally cast up on the shores of M.L.
during parky weather. Some have it that
the fish come to the shallows to spawn
during the winter, but a more feasible
theory is that, forced by submarine dis-
turbances from their deep natural en-
vironment, they become helpless in the
suddenly-reduced pressure of the shallow
water, and are cast ashore by the waves,
They certainly fall easy prey to sea birds
when near the surface.
THE BOULDER-BARDOC LODE.
It was banquet night in Bardoc in the golden
long-ago
When old Jock won acclamation he was ne’er
again to know.
Looks of warm appreciation on the speaker
were bestowed
As we rose to drain our glasses to the Boulder-
Bardoc lode.
For we’d find, he said, in Bardoc, in a very
little while,
We’d the sure continuation of the famous
Golden Mile.
And he traced the future plainly, and no
brighter ever glowed,
As he pictured thousands working on the
Boulder-Bardoc lode.
We have done a lot of searching since that
happy night of old,
When we reckoned any day might put us right
upon the gold;
We have pegged no end of leases since the night
the champagne flowed,
But we’ve pegged a lot too many on the
Boulder-Bardoc lode.
We have done a lot of sinking since that distant
banquet night,
But we’ll have to sink still deeper to bring
old Jock’s lode to light.
You will find our drives and crosscuts where
the indications showed,
But our drills have not connected with the
Boulder-Bardoc lode.
We’ve been forced to the conclusion, as we’ve
mined and countermined.
That the banquet lodes of all lodes are most
difficult to find.
And we offer this suggestion to those following
our road:
Keep as far as you are able from the Boulder-
Bardoc lode.
W.A.
OSCAR WALTERS.


“Beta”: The mission natives excitedly
prepared for David’s wedding. Lady
missionaries not only decorated the
church and bride, but thoughtfully pro-
vided a great spread for the breakfast.
Voting placed the breakfast first and the
ceremony second in popular anticipation.
Half an hour before the wedding was
timed to commence David sadly reported
that a rival “bin pinchum bride. “That’s
too bad, ’ said the parson. “We’ll have to
put off the wedding—and the breakfast.”
The last word did the trick, and David
tore off his wedding boots. “No plurry
fear,” he said. “You mindum boots
belonga me soon catchum nozzer
bride.”
* * * *
“Ornis”: Interesting to know what
breed of cuckoo “Illilangi” saw attacking
crows in company to enable the lady
cuckoo to plant her egg in Kelly’s nest
(B. 25/8/’37). There are half-a-dozen
varieties of Australian cuckoo, from the
channel-bill to the bronze cuckoo, and
one or two of them build their own
nests. Also the observations of many-
trained naturalists show that the lady
cuckoo works entirely on her own, by
stealth and not force majeure. The
If y' can take th' bag o' Wood under y'r arm, Jim, it'll save y' a double
trip up them steps."
common English cuckoo lays her egg
on the ground and then takes it in her
bill to place in the chosen nest. This pro-
cess has been seen and photographed a
dozen times.
*„* * *
crn ,°[ ab y, : What “Tockilly” calls a
f °,. e beetle (B. 11/8/’37) is the “bom-
oaraier, common along the eastern parts
of N.S.W. and Q. The acrid vapor it
f- P f S is accompanied by a noise like a
fa ' nt explosion—which astonishes Towser
when he sniffs at a moving bombardier.
Another beetle curiosity, not so often
seen j s +K e “elenhant’s trunk ” cr> rail
f ’ , trunk, so-called
from a tubelike beak as long as its body,
slightly curved downwards. Only the
S', Carries ,h . is .Pf* 1 *" rost ™'-
What its purpose is I don t know ; the
male jumbo beetle gets along just as
well without it—in fact, he is smarter
lhan „ hi ? slfw-moving spouse. Though
small, the lady is an attractive oddity,
both on the ground and on the wing.
...
tt
“Dinkum”: Ducks continually diving
to avoid a hawk (B. 25/8/’37)? I recol-
lect my trip on the upper reaches of the
Drydup River. Prowling along the banks
of that noble stream, I had dealt death
to dozens of ducks until every fowl
would dive as soon as I lifted my port-
able cannon. At last my ammunition ran
out, but did I return? Not on your life.
As soon as I sighted a clutch of quackers
I would raise my duck-exterminator to
my shoulder and the Donalds, expecting
a shot, would submerge. By keeping up
the subterfuge I was able to drown more
ducks in a week than I could have shot
in a month.
* * * *
“R.W.D.”: Flying-foxes take an in-
terest in bloodwood and other flowers
(B. 11/8/’37) not because of beetles that
gather there, but for the honey. The
bats have a sweet tooth, and are regarded
by apiarists as among their worst
enemies, on account of the number of
honey-producing blossoms they destroy.
Every autumn they chew up millions of
tea-tree flowers, and after they have fin-
ished the bees might as well stay at
home. Also, if, as “Gumblegubbin” sug-
gests, they regard the cane-beetle seri-
ously as a food-item, there must be
enough oi them in the swamps and
scrubs of northern N.S.W. and Queens-
land to account for the entire beetle
population in a week.
* .„ * * *
Kooragai : A great attraction to
many bush birds at nesting time is the
open fowlruns of country places. Small
“This gold pass entitles me to travel free on EVERY railway
feathers shed by the hens in the paddock
and about the sheds are collected for
nest lining. Tits and wagtails even enter
coops and fowlhouses for the purpose.
I have found hen feathers in a nest two
miles away from the fowlrun. One day
a woman was plucking a chicken on a
bench at the back of the house. A
couple of moss-tits were watching from
a peach-tree near by, and when oppor-
tunity offered each flew down smartly
and stole a feather from the dish. Straight
across the paddock they went to a clump
of timber, but in a few minutes they were
back for more. In the nest, examined
later, were 300 feathers, and as the birds
flew two miles on the round trip for each
feather that meant 600 miles—3oo for
each bird—to line the precious cradle.
And how many more miles to build the
pendulous, dome-shaped structure?
* * * *
“Gryllus”: Starlings, long regarded as
a. pest for building in roofs and estab-
lishing colonies of bird-ljce therein, are
becoming highly popular in Queensland
as destroyers of blowflies. The late
W. E. Abbott, of Murulla station in the
Wingen (N.S.W.) district, used to assert
that they had saved him £40,000 in loss
from fly-struck sheep and cost of crutch-
ing and spraying, and of late years Dar-
ling Downs (Q.) sheepmen are echoing
his sentiments. Starlings appeared first
on the Downs about 1923, and have
worked steadily north as far as Cracow.
They seem to check in distribution to
the west at Miles, and proposals are being
considered for accelerating spread by
transfer and liberation of colonies further
west.
“McAroni”: According to
the secretary of the Queens-
land Selectors’ Association,
“there is everything to gain
and nothing to lose by experi-
menting with the propagation
of starlings.” Personally, I
doubt whether a starling would
take the slightest interest in a
blowfly if it met one face to
face. The starling is primarily
a grain- and berry-eater, and,
though it may account for an
occasional grub, it is certainly
not a flycatcher. If wheat is
grown in the area where it is
let loose, the growers will soon
find out that they have some-
thing to lose, and agriculturists
will “gain” by the spread of lantana and
inkweed. Starlings breed so rapidly that
to-day they probably outnumber any of
our native birds.
* * * *
“Twenty-seven”: The faithful collie,
recently mentioned, that took a dislike
to her master when he came back from
the Boer War must have been a spiritual
half-sister to a black-and-tan I knew.
After six years of stainless watchdog-
dom, he sullied his reputation by taking
a chunk out of his master’s calf when
he came home on leave. He happened
to be in uniform; either the mong was
a pacifist or the warlike smell of the
thing roused him.
* * * *
“C.V.S.”: People who complain of the
drabness and similarity of Australian
trees should visit Waldheim Chalet at
Cradle Mt. (Tas.). Four species of pines
—King Billy, Pencil, Laxifolia (loose-
leafed) and Celery Top—grow in the sur-
rounding forests, indiscriminately mixed
with myrtle, deciduous beech, sassafras,
waratah. horizontal scrub and grass-tree
up to 20ft. high. The ground and tree-
trunks are covered with bright-green
moss mottled with light-grey lichen. The
more common honeysuckle and tea-tree
add to the variety, while several species
of eucalypts skirt the forest edges. Botan-
ists could name many more, including
types of creeping pines higher up the
mountains. A peculiarity is the scarcity
of ferns, probably owing to the altitude
(3000 ft.).
* * * *
“R.H.”: Tell “Gidya George” (B.
18/8/’37) that Parkinsonia is the name
of a genus of about a dozen trees mostly
native of South America, named after
John Parkinson (1567-1650), an apothe-
cary of London in the service of James
1., and the author of Paradisis terrestris
and other botanical works. He intro-
duced a number of new plants to Eng-
land, including the larch. The variety
growing in Queensland is Parkinsonia
aculeata, native of tropical South
America, and discovered in 1739. The
specific name means “pointed,” and refers
to the small spines. In the southern
States of North America it is called
“Jerusalem thorn,” but no common name
seems to have been coined for it in this
country.
* * * *
“Bruce”: The trapdoor spider is
usually regarded as a ground tunneller.
I was astounded in using a small garden
fork near the base of an old peach-tree
to come across a nest which penetrated
the wood to a depth of 9in. The door
was exactly bark-color. Dry-rot had
attacked the wood and opened up a
tunnel which his spidership had lined in
the usual way.
* * * *
“McAroni”: Ants certainly have some
way of “talking” to each other. I put a
dead caterpillar about a foot from a nest,
and waited developments. Shortly after-
wards a bored-looking ant sauntered
along, and brightened considerably when
he saw the tucker. After viewing it from
all angles, and giving it a few tentative
tugs, he made off at full gallop, and dis-
appeared down the hole. A few seconds
passed, then out charged about half a
dozen ants, and made straight for the
grub, which they towed home and stowed
under hatches.
% H* H* ijc
“Blue Heeler”: “Gr-r-r-r’s” experience
of dogs (B. 7/7/’37) must have been con-
fined to Pekes—ones with clogged hair
draped over their eyes at that. A grey-
hound can sight a ’roo across a plain
1000 yards away. A well-trained sheep-
dog can be worked by signals with an
ordinary pocket handkerchief in the hand
of his boss, who stands half a mile away
or more. One hundred yards? Ga-r-r-n!
THE FOUR-HORSE COACH.
I mind the days the old green coach
Went down the long bush roads.
Four horses drew it, grey and brown,
It took the country folk to town,
And when they’d got their business done
It brought them back the way they’d gone
In weary, crowded loads.
But now the roads are cluttered full
With hooting motor-cars,
With lorries rushing round the curves,
And motor-bikes that jump y’r nerves,
Rid by a bloke in clouds o’ dust
So doubled-up you’d think he must
Pitch on his handlebars.
I grant the coach was slow and old,
It shook us up, I know,
And I’ll allow it sometimes had
A breakdown when the roads were bad;
But folks had sort o’ friendly ways
About them in the coaching days
Of sixty year ago.
Mind, I’m not grumblin’ at the times,
I m speakin’ no reproach
At motor-cars. No, I just say
That things was different in my day—
There s nothing now on these here roads
That bears the kindly, cheerful loads
Of that old four-horse coach.
N.S.W.
TROY.


The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Incorporated in South Australia with Limited Liability.
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTd AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, VV.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Capital Authorised .. ..£1,250,000
Capital Issued .. .. 1,250,000
Capita] Paid Up £1,250,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 1,000,000
(Used partly in business and partly
in Government and approved
Securities.)
Reserve Liability of Shareholders ..£1,250,000
Also 107 Branches and Agencies in S'outh Australia.
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.3.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad
collected and proceeds remitted. All usual
banking business transacted-
ADAMS’ (TA'iTERSALL’S) HOTtL
259 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 484 GEORGE STREET.
Rooms, 6/- and 8/- per day; Breakfast, Table d’Hote or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE- PUBLIC DINING ROOMS.
Bunch from 12 noon (Sunday, 12.45 p.m.), Din ner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday, 5.45 p.m.).
Tables or Seats may be reserved by ’Phone. M46QI.
Who Is Your Trustee?
Does he possess the knowledge and experience which the acceptance of that office
demands?
Permanent Trustee Co.
OF N.S.W., LTD
Incorporated 1888 to act as Executors and Trustees.
This -Company offers unexcelled trust service, _ combining security and experience
with efficient administration.
Write for explanatory Booklet, sent free, on request
Directors.
0. E. FRIEND F. N. YARWOOD
CECIL H. DOYLE (Chairman)
J. W. BARNES, Manager. E. V.
23-25 O’CONNELL STREET.
SIR THOMAS
W. G. HULL
T. WHITTLE, Asst.
;YDNEY.
buciiland
Mgr.
MINERAL DEVELOPMENTS
(FIJI), LTD.
Assayers, Mine Managers and Geologists:
Mining properties reported upon.
Diamond Drilling Contracts Undertaken.
’Phones: 8W5260. 19 O’Connell Street,
84439. SYDNEY.
BRANDAIJERS
C.**
#
PENS
Every point
guaranteed —
do not experiment with imitations.
a BRANDAUER A CO, Ltd, BIRMINGHAM. ENG
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Elder, Smith & Co., Ltd.
To lle-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
1926.. 214,058 10 p.c. = 161,040 53,018 918,706
1927.. 223,123 10 „ „ 175,680 47,443 966,149
Premiums on new shares, £98,110.. 1,064,259
1928.. 252,346 10 p.c. = 204,995 47,351 1,111,610
Premiums on new shares, £115,044.. 1,226,654
1929.. 227,106 10 p.c. = 208,102 19,004 1,245,658
1930.. 128,724 5 „ „ 119,682 9,042 1.254.700
1931.. 99.820 4 „ „ 95,745 4,075 1,258,775
Transferred to depreciation reserve,
£165,044 1,093.731
1932.. 102,699 4 p.c. = 95,745 6,954 1,100.685
1933.. 105,279 4 „ „ 95,746 9,533 1,110,218
1934.. 148,623 6 „ ~ 143,618 5,005 1,115,223
1935.. 145,675 5 „ ~ 119,682 25,993 1,141,216
1936.. 165,277 6 „ „ 143,618 21,659 1,162,875
Provident and guarantee fund, 1
£lO,OOO }■ 27,027 1,189,902
1937.. 204,836 7 p.c. = 167,809 J
Nature was unkind, both in S. Aus.,
the co.’s home State, where most of the
business is done, and in Westralia, where
the co. has strong and growing connec-
tions. The following table, showing the
quantity of wool sold and the amount
realised by all selling brokers in Adelaide
and Perth respectively, illustrates what
happened:—
r- 1935-36 , 1936-37
Gross Gross
Bales. Value. Bales. Value.
Adelaide .. 263,280 £4,151,232 257,299 £4,603,315
Perth . . 202,736 3,539,995 150,355 2,884,976
The average per bale for 1936-37 was
£l7 17s. lOd. (up £2 2s. 6d.) Adelaide,
and £l9 3s. 9d. (up £1 14s. 6d.) Perth.
The average for the Commonwealth was
£2O 14s. 2d. (up £3 Is. lid.). In S. Aus.
the wool cheque was £452,083 better,
despite a shrinkage of 5981 in the
number of bales auctioned. In West-
ralia 52,381 fewer bales were put under
the hammer, and the cheque was
£655,019 lighter.
Appearances are, therefore, that the
other sections of the business —livestock,
hides, skins, merchandise, etc. —in which
prices also strengthened, contributed
largely to the spring of £81,962 in gross
earnings. These were figured after mak-
ing provision for contingencies, the call
for which became less pronounced fol-
lowing beneficial rains in both S. Aus.
and Westralia before and since publica-
tion of the sheet:
Paid Gross
Capital. Earnings. Expenses.
1910 .. £300,000 £144,260 £84,738
1920 . . 877,200 462,451 318.476
1926 .. 1,756,800 652,260 438,202
1928 .. 2,050,320 733,162 480,816
1930 .. 2,393,640 569,121 440,397
1931 .. 2,393,640 458,686 358,366
1932 . . 2,393,640 421,057 318,358
1933 . . 2,393,640 444,737 339,458
1934 . . 2,393,640 513,647 305,024
1935 . . 2.393,640 518,930 373,255
1936 . . 2,393,640 559.282 394,005
1937 . . 2,400,000 641,244 436,408
The growth of £6360 in capital reflects
the purchase on May 1 of Geo. Hague
and Co.’s old-established woolbroking
business at Geelong (Vic.). The price
is not stated, but 1060 shares paid to £6
were issued at a premium of £3 each.
The premium (£3183) was used to re-
duce the amount paid for goodwill, the
balance of which was written off out of
inner reserves. Exes, (up £42,403) took
little more than half the gain in gross
earnings, leaving the net result £39,559
better at 8.5 p.c. on capital, compared
with 6.9, 6, 6.2, 4.4, 4.2, 4.1, 5.3 and
10.9 p.c. back to 1929. The div. was
lifted a point, making 7 p.c. for the
year, the final being at the rate of
8 p.c. p.a.
During the year £381,161 was added to
the book value of advances, £64,676 to
freeholds, plant, etc., and £24,460 to mer-
chandise stocks, Government securities
and cash being drawn upon for £386,593
for the purpose:
„ . , 1932. 1936. 1937.
Deposits, etc. | f £839,143 £831,993
Other 1 £1,434,459-!
liabilities J [ 1,117,237 1,126,127
Freeholds, plant,
„ etc 561,588 579,007 643,683
Gov. sec. and cash 878,427 2,019,899 1,633,306
Advances, etc. f 3,021,705 3,402,866
St° ck •• . , 1 127,223 151,683
Shares other 3,801,376 -i
cos. .. J [ 150,842 149,100
When the books closed depositors and
others could see 16s. Bd. of every pound
of their money in Government securi-
ties and cash. To represent the remain-
ing £324,814 of outside liabilities there
were advances, stock and shares in other
cos. with an aggregate book value of
£3,703,649. It is a very strong position,
and the co. is obviously well equipped
to further expand its connections.
Prospects for the current term are for
a heavier clip at satisfactory prices.
At £9 os. 6d. (£8 7s. 6d. a year ago) the
£lO shares paid to £6 return 4.6 p.c. on a
7 p.c. div. basis, with prospects. The net
tangible cover is £8 19s. sd.
New Zealand Insurance Co.
Net To Re-
Maj', Profit. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1927.. 244,172 12.5 p.c. =131,250 112,922 1,252,189
Transferred to capital, £150,000 .. 1,102,189
1928.. 226,536 11.5 p.c. =137,500 89,036 1,191,225
1929. . 232,088 11.5 „ „ 137,500 94,588 1,285,813
1930.. 259,488 11.9 „ ~143,750 115,738 1,401,551
Transferred to capital, £300,000 .. 1,101,551
1931.. 199,392 10 p.c. = 150,000 49,392 1,150,943
Written off, £20,748 1,130.195
1932.. 156.761 10 p.c. =150,000 6.761 1.136.956
1933.. 174,975 10 „ „ 150,000 24,975 1,161,931
From inner reserves, £147,585 .. 1,309,516
1934.. 228,295 12.5 p.c. =187,500 }
To staff pension fund. £20,000 [ 10,795 1,320,311
To tax reserve, £lO,OOO I '
1935. . 232,809 10 p.c. = 150,000 \ 79 ROQ . „ Q , , 9n
To tax reserve, £lO,OOO ) 7Z,SUJ 1,393,120
1936.. 249,165 10 p.c. = 150,000 99,165 1,492,285
1937.. 288,456 10 „ „ 150,000 138,456 1,030,741
This very successful fire and marine
office, which has world-wide connections,
is Auckland-controlled. It has been
accepting risks for the past 78 years, and
for (he last 25 of them shareholders have
been in clover. Of the £1,500,000 of
capital £1,200,000 has come from surplus
earnings since 1912, and reserves were
visibly piled £130,741 higher than capital
when the books last closed. The two
combined were largely invested in
Government and other stocks, which the
auditors certify are worth more than
their book value. On capital alone last
year’s return from investments (£125,596,
up £8148) was equal to 8.3 p.c. and the
underwriting surplus (£127,778, up
£9432) 8.5 p.c. Taking into the reckon-
ing £15,216 dropped from somewhere
into the contingencies reserve (£168,774)
and £19,866 into the investment fluctua-
tion account (£88,926), the net return
from all sources was £39,291 better at
£288,456, or 19.2 p.c. on capital as against
16.6, 15.5, 15.2, 11.6 and 10.4 p.c. back
to 1932. The div. was kept at 10 p.c.,
and the £138,456 that remained went to
swell investments and the returns there-
from.
At 655. the fully-paid pound shares
return 3.1 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis.
The investor who looks for 4.6 p.c. on
his money counts on a 15 p.c. distribu-
tion, or a one-for-two bonus issue and
maintenance of the div. at 10 p.c. On
last year’s figures either was within reach,
but the board might like to see a calmer
world atmosphere and the return from
investments more closely approximate
any contemplated distribution before it
takes action. The cover is 41s. 6d. in
net tangibles.
The business continues to step along
nicely:
Loss Expense
Net Rate. Rate.
Premiums. Losses. Expenses, p.c. p.c.
1910.. 605.509 391,321 172,593 64.5 28.5
1925. . 1,072,761 603,650 342,334 56.2 31.9
1930.- 1,199,382 737,719 362,277 61.4 30.2
1931.. 1,145,257 740,245 353,439 64.6 30.8
1932.. 1,050,351 670,714 349,331 63.8 33.2
1933.. 1,008,530 622,039 333,387 61.7 33.1
1934. . 1,001,328 553,886 336.849 55.3 33.6
1935. 596,778 348,938 56.7 33.2
1936. . 1,096,569 631,809 346,414 57.6 31.6
1937. 705,955 351,903 59.5 29.6
The spring in last year’s net premium
income was £89,067, and the larger busi-
ness was handled at 40s. p.c. less cost. -
But losses made off with an extra 38s.
p.c., largely owing to unsatisfactory over-
seas marine business, leaving the under-
writing surplus practically unchanged
at £lO 15s. p.c. of net premiums. An-
other factor which has contributed to
the expanding loss ratio over the last few
years has been motor-car insurance,
under both comprehensive policies and
third-party covers.
At the moment it is impossible to say
to what extent the war in China is
likely to affect the business. Thus far
most of the damage has been done to
property in Shanghai and the surround-
ing district, and, unless specially
endorsed, the ordinary fire policy does
not cover war risks; the marine losses
to date attributable to the conflict have
not been heavy.
There is no need for policy-holders to
stay awake o’ nights. When the books
closed they could see net tangibles with
a book value equal to over 264 p.c. of
last year’s net premium income, whereas
150 p.c. is usually considered adequate.
Now consider these figures:
1930. 1935. 1936. 19|7.
Paid capital 1,200,000 1,500,000 1,500,000 1,500,000
Liabilities.. 360,203 225,940 273,033 329,641
Public securi-
ties .. 1,981,827 2,035,631 2,024,755 2,186,132
Mortgages.. 61,625 46,250 34,250 28,446
Shares, etc. 122,324 239,889 369,949 405,969
Freeholds .. 425,268 446,793 463,495 489,029
Agency bal-
ances and
cash .. 465,710 465,497 487,869 465,817
Assets are a solid lot and worth more
than book volue. Of the £2,186,132
(up £161,377) of public securities, only
£45,786 was invested in Japan, Indo-
China and Manila. The growth of
£25,534 in the freeholds item is largely
on account of new eight-storeyed
premises at Wellington (M.L.).
Peters’ American Delicacy Co., Ltd.
To
June, Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
1927.. 53,539 13$ p.c.= 36,024 17,515 176,426
Unexplained additions, £63,578 .. 240,004
1928.. 66,298 13$ p.c. = 48,953 17,345 257,349
Unexplained additions, £86,018 .. 343,367
1929.. 73,132 13$ p.c. = 51,136 21,996 365,363
Unexplained additions, £81,432 .. 446,795
1930.. 65,239 13$ p.c. = 55,929 9,310 456,105
Unexplained additions, £35,444 . . 491,549
1931.. 43,716 10 p.c. = 42,583 1,133 492.682
Written off investments, £25,000 .. 467,682
Unexplained additions, "£32,482 .. 500,164
1932.. 22,779 10 p.c. = 42,583 480,360
Written off investments, £12,435 .. 467,925
Unexplained additions, £19,434 .. 487,359
1933.. 32,266 7.8 p.c. = 31,937 329 487.688
Unexplained additions, £34,779 .. 522,467
1934.. 43,383 10.7 p.c. = 42,583. 800 523.267
Unexplained additions, £32,944 .. 556,211
1935.. 55,720 10.7 p.c. = 42,583 13,137 569,348
Unexplained additions, £28,847 .. 598,195
1936.. 68,517 12$ p.c. = 49,681 18,836 617,031
Depreciation reserve, £20,276 .. 637,307
Unexplained reduction, £24,388 .. 612,919
1937.. 109,320 16 p.c. = 63,876 45,444 658,363
F. A. B. Peters, who formed this pros-
perous Sydney ice-cream co. in 1920, and
was chairman and managing director
until he retired at the end of 1936, died
in May. John Symonds takes his
place at the head of the board table, apd
E. B. Carr, long associated with the busi-
ness, becomes managing director.
Paid capital advanced from £150,000
in 1924 to £425,825 six years later by
par issues, which were in the nature of
substantial bonuses to shareholders, the
scrip commanding a high premium on
the market. In 1932 £28,389 of capital
was returned, reducing the figure to
£397,446 in 680,711 shares of 14s. each,
of which 511,364 are fully paid and the
balance paid to 4s. Bd. each. Over the
last 18 years divs. have averaged 11.3 p.c.
Now paid capital is to be doubled,
making it £794,892, by the issue of bonus
scrip, free of Federal and State income
tax, to those on the register at Sept. 3.
To sidestep the taxgatherer, it is pro-
posed to sell the freehold, plant, stock
and goodwill, etc., to a subsidiary, Peters
Ice Cream Pty., Ltd., partly for shares
and partly for cash, so that £397,446 from
the sale of goodwill (now valued in the
books at £25,250) will be available
for distribution among shareholders in
this Delicacy Co., which will become a
holding co. Before this is done, share-
holders will be asked to amend the co.’s
articles so as to enable fully-paid bonus
shares to be distributed in proportion to
the amount paid up instead of on the
face value of existing shares. It is obvi-
ously an equitable proposal. What is
difficult to understand is the board’s late-
ness in making it. One result has been
that some investors paid as much as
275. 9d. for the contribs. in March, appar-
ently in the belief that an issue of bonus
scrip was not far distant, and would be
based on the face value of shareholdings,
irrespective of the amount paid up
thereon.
If shareholders amend the articles as
proposed, bonus shares fully paid to
14s. each will be issued one-for-one to
holders of the existing fully-paids and
one-for-three to the contribs. Thus the
contribs. at 21s. 9d. would return 4.2 p.c.
on a 10 p.c. div. basis. On the same
div. basis the fully-paids at 575. 6d. would
return 4.8 p.c. After the bonus issue
paid capital would be £794,892, on which
10 p.c. would call for £29,831 less profit
than was claimed for the 12 months to
June 30.
Last year’s declared net earnings
sprang £40,803, reaching the record figure
of £109,320, or 27.8 p.c. on capital as
it stood at the close of accounts. That
was after adding £20,276 to the depre-
ciation reserve (now shown at £405,713,
equal to 74 p.c. of the figure at which
plant appears), but leaves out of the
reckoning an unexplained reduction of
£24,338 in other reserves. This reduction
may have some connection with the pro-
vision for taxation, now lumped with
sundry creditors in the sheet.
This comparison of balance-sheet
figures suggests preparation for still larger
trading:
1924. 1930. 193 G. 1937.
Paid capital. £150,000 £397,446 £397,446 £397,440
Sundry creditors 75,086 29,522 37,271 80,841*
Freeholds, etc. 137,855 245,645 246,746 260,838
Plant, etc... 83,262 485,495 495,516 548,540
Investments.. 4,313 152,926 152,537 149,300
Stock .. 7,238 19,495 20,504 25,447
Book debts.. 3,694 14,274 10,285 11,115
Cash.. .. 12 99,772 154,548 180,084
* Includes provision for taxation.
The addition of £14,092 to freeholds and
of £53,024 to plant are mainly on ac-
count of extensions to the Redfern fac-
tory. The growth of £43,570 in the amount
coming to sundry creditors, etc., which is
more than twice covered by cash alone,
appears to be due largely to provision
for taxation. Investments include £58,571
of Government securities. The position
with regard to the Queensland, Vic. and
Westralian offshoots is as follows:
1937—,
Profit, Div.,
Held p.c. p.c.
Paid by Capi- Capi-
Capital. Parent. tal. tal.
Peters Arctic (Q.) £180,086 £43,150 11.0 8.3
Peters (Vic.) .. 167,080 18,000 13.1 9.0
Peters (W.A.) .. 128,610 20,000 12.7 8.0
The parent thus received £9645 from its
holding in these cos. last year, and there
were wide margins between earnings and
distributions.
Standard Portland Cement, Ltd. (Syd.)
To Re-
June, Profit. Dividend. serves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £
Preliminary exes., £25,612 .. 25,612
1927.. 4,949 Nil 4,949 20,663
Reserves.
1928.. 35.866 Nil 35,866 15,203
1029.. 47,268 8 p.c. = 33,936 13,332 28,535
1930.. 47,872 8 „ „ 34,690* 13,182 41,717
1931.. 39,451 ss„ „ 27,459 11,992 53,709
1932.. 22,257 4 „ ~ 19,970 2,287 55,996
1933.. 42,810 6 „ „ 29,955 12,855 68,851
1934.. 56,666 74 „ „ 37,444 19,222 88,073
1935.. 52,134 7 „ „ 34,948 17,186 105,259
1936.. 42,973 74 „ ~33,450 9,523 114,782
1937.. 44,881 8 „ ~31,952 12,929 127,711
*lncludes 1 p.c. on deferrcds.
Notwithstanding that capital outlay
called for more than was expected at
tu o start, this 11-vear-old has given a
good account of itself in a rather crowded
Divs., which began in 1929,
were uninterrupted by slump, the aver-
age over the last nine years being 6.7 p.c.,
(i Continued on page 24.)


MASONITE
AS AN INVESTMENT
The following points should be borne in mind
when considering the Masonite Corporation (Aus-
tralia) Ltd. as an investment
-)C The original capital of the Masonite Corpora-
tion (U.S.A.) when incorporated in 1925 was
1,400,000 dollars. The profits last year were
1,400,000 dollars. The Masonite Corporation's
shares are listed on the New York Stock Ex-
change, and on a recent quotation, a total
value of 30,000,000 dollars is placed on them.
-$C This position has been achieved in spite of
definite competition from cheap building
timbers. Australia is lacking in such building
timbers, and no products comparable with
Masonite are available in this country.
The Australian Council of Scientific and
Industrial Research has officially estimated the
Australian market for fibre board at approxi-
mately 56,000,000 feet per annum. This Com-
pany will supply the important markets of
New Zealand and Southern Pacific Islands in
addition to Australian requirements.
-K An embargo exists against the importation of
Masonite into Australia.
■K No shares are allotable to the Masonite Cor-
poration (U.S.A.) for any consideration other
than cash. The sole consideration of the
Masonite Corporation (U.S.A.) will be their
right to acquire Deferred Shares for Cash.
No profits will accrue to the Masonite Cor-
poration (U.S.A.) until ordinary shareholders
have received seven per cent.
-fc Tests carried out with samples of ordinary
Australian timbers in the laboratories of the
Masonite Corporation (U.S.A.) have demon-
strated the suitabiliy of such timbers for the
manufacture of Masonite boards equal in
quality to the American products.
-K No cash payments or share considerations are
due to any promoters, vendors, or other
persons.
-fc Masonite products meet a pressing and per-
manent national need, have no comparable
competitors in Australia, and have demon-
strated over a period of eleven their infinite
superiority to any boards manufactured in any
part of the world.
THE MARKET FOR MASONITE
IN AUSTRALIA, NEW ZEALAND
AND PACIFIC ISLANDS
The Australian Council of Scientific and Indus-
trial Research has officially estimated the Aus-
tralian market for fibre boards at approximately
56,000,000 feet per annum. (Technical Report
No. 6 of 1932.) The Company proposes to
concentrate very special attention on the question
of merchandising. According to costs estimated
by Mr. J. H. Thickens, Vice President, Masonite
Corporation, U.S.A., who this year visited Aus-
tralia for purposes of complete investigation.
Masonite will be reailed at attractively low
prices. In view of the fact that the Australian
Company will manufacture for and supply the
whole of the Australian and New Zealand
markets, as well as for British-owned and
Mandated Territories in the Southern Pacific,
there is complete justification for estimating that
the initial output of the proposed plant, i.e.,
17,000,000 feet per annum, will be completely
absorbed, and that progressive increases will
be necessary to cope with demand.
ESTIMATED PROFITS
Calculations of production and other costs made
by Mr. J. H. Thickens, and which take into
account resellers' discounts, selling costs, etc.,
indicate that Masonite products can be sold in
Ausralia at retail prices competitive with those
of inferior wall and building boards, and con-
siderably lower than those which ruled in the
case of imported Masonite. According to Mr.
Thickens' estimate, the costs of production, which
have been computed as being nearly three times
the cost of production in the United States, will
still permit the Company to market Masonite
products a moderate prices, which, on the
estimated production forecast by Mr. J. H.
Thickens, would yield a net profit, before pro-
viding for taxation, of £136,850.
N.B. The full text of Mr. I. H. Thickens' report
may be inspected during ordinary business hours
at the Registered Office of the Company or at
the offices of the Brokers to the Company.
SITE OF THE AUSTRALIAN
PLANT
Of the several suitable sites for the Masonite
Plant, a number have been inspected by Mr.
J. H. Thickens. It has been tentatively decided,
pending confirmatory advice from the Company's
Consulting Engineers, and a visiting engineer
fror-v the Masonite Corporation (U.S.A.), to
establish the > ’ant in New South Wales.
£ This advertisement is for public infor-
mation only, and is not a prospectus.
A complete prospectus and application
form for shares may be procured as
herein mentioned.
MASONITE
Corporation (Australia) Ltd.
* Nominal Capital - - £300,000
Divided into 287,500 Ordinary Shares of £1 each, and 100,000 Deferred
Shares of 2/6 each. The 100,000 Deferred Shares are to be issued to
the Masonite Corporation of America for Cash.
THE DIRECTORS:
ARTHUR VICKERY, Esq., Pastoralist, Sydney (Chairman).
Hon .THOMAS G. MURRAY. M.L.C., Investor, Sydney.
E. D. ABOUD, Esq., Company Director, Sydney.
E. S. WOLFENDEN, Esq., Chartered Accountant (Aust.),
A.I.A. (London), Consulting Actuary, Sydney.
H. B. SEVIER, Esq., Chairman of Directors, Lewis Berger
and Sons (Aust.) Limited, Sydney.
DAVID A. CRAIG, Esq., Governing Director, John Alexander
Trust and Investment Proprietary Limited, Sydney.
ERNEST E. L. O'SULLIVAN, Esq., Company Director,
Melbourne.
Bankers: English Scottish and
Australian Bank Ltd., King
and George Streets, Sydney.
Auditors: Messrs. Robertson
Crane and Gibbons, Char-
tered Accountants (Aust.),
Sydney.
Solicitors: Messrs. Minter
Simpson and Co., 31 Hunter
Street,- Sydney.
Consulting Engineers:
Messrs. Julius Poole and
Gibson, 67 Castlereagh St.,
Sydney.
Brokers: Messrs. Charles H.
Smith and Co., 27 Hunter
Street, Sydney. (Members
Sydney Stock Exchange.)
Secretary & Registered
Office:
A. J. Brandreth, Esq.,
Chartered Accountant (Aust.),
117 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
NOMINAL CAPITAL: £300,000
Divided into
287,500 Ordinary Shares of £! each £287,500 0 0
These shares shall confer on the holders
thereof the right to be paid out of profits
of each year a dividend for such year at
the rate of seven per centum per annum
on the capital for the time being paid up
on such shares and thereafter, and irres-
pective of the amount so paid up, such
shares shall rank pari passu with the
Deferred Shares.
TO BE ISSUED TO THE
MASONITE CORPORATION (U.S.A.) FOR CASH.
100,000 Deferred Shares of 2/6 each, which shall
confer on the holders thereof the right to
be paid one half of the balance of such
profits after the payment thereout to the
holders of the Ordinary Shares of the
abovementioned dividend at the rate of
seven per centum per annum on the
capital paid up thereon £12,500 0 0
250,000 Ordinary Shares of £1 each payable 2/6
on application and 2/6 on allotment,
balance in calls of not more than 2/6
per share at intervals of not less than one
month.
TO BE HELD IN RESERVE.
37,500 Ordinary Shares of £1 each.
OF THE SHARES NOW OFFERED FOR SURSCRIPTION
200.000 HAVE REEN PLACED.
OBJECTS OF THE COMPANY
The objects for which the Company
is being formed are set forth in the
Memorandum of Association, and
are particularly as under:—
1. In conjunction with the Mason-
ite Corporation (U.S.A.) to es-
tablish a plant in Australia for
the manufacture of fibre board
and other board products, such
as Structural Insulation Board,
Quartrboard, Presdwood, and
Temprtile, at present produced
by the Masonite Corporation
of America.
2. Under the guidance of tech-
nicians loaned by the Masonite
Corporation (U.S.A.) to the
Australian Company to select
a suitable site, erect a factory,
and set up a complete produc-
tion unit as shipped by the
Masonite Corporation (U.S.A.)
and which will be supplied by
the Masonite Corporation
(U.S.A.) at cost. Such tech-
nicians will also instruct Aus-
tralian employees in all secret
processes involved in the pro-
duction of Masonite materials
and will expedite the produc-
tion of finished products for
the Australian market
MINIMUM SUBSCRIPTION
The minimum amount of £200,000 to be raised by the issue of
shares offered for public subscription is required in order to
provide for:—
(1) the purchase of land and buildings estimated at £35,000
(2) the purchase and erection of plant and machinery
estimated at - £90,000
(3) preliminary expenses (including brokerage at the
rate of 5%) estimated at ...... £15,000
(4) working capital £60,000
It is not intended that any of the aforesaid matters shall be provided
for out of any source other than the proceeds of the sale of shares
in the Company.
ESTIMATED FINANCIAL REQUIREMENTS
In the opinion of the Directors, which is based on Mr. I. H. Thickens’
report, £200,000 will be sufficient to purchase and erect the plant and
provide adequate working capital. In order to provide against
contingencies and expansion, however, the Directors consider it
desirable to issue additional shares up to 250,000, the capital to be
called up as required.
LISTING ON STOCK
EXCHANGES
The Directors will apply to the Stock
Exchanges o! Australia to have the Shares
ol the Company listed, and the Memo-
randum and Articles of Association have
been compiled to comply with Stock
Exchange requirements.
The requirements of Section 137 of the
New South Wales Companies Act, 193 G,
Section 88 of the Victorian Companies Act,
1928, have not been fully complied with
in this advertisement, but are contained
in the printed Prospectus, a copy of which
has been duly filed with the Registrars
of Companies in New South Wales, Vic-
toria and Queensland.
WHAT IS MASONITE
Masonite products are manufactured boards made
entirely of wood fibre. They retain the natural
strength and composition of wood, but are with-
out grain and other defects found in wood. In
the exclusive and secret process of producing
these scientific wood products, clean wood chips
are exploded under high steam pressure so
that the wood is reduced to fibre. The pre-
paration of fibre by the explosion process en-
sures the retention of the natural wood binders;
and the re-use of the binders for the welding
together of the fibres make the Masonite process
unlike any other in the world. The product
thus produced consists entirely of long cellulose
fibres with their strength unimpaired and the
natural cementing structure of the wood entirely
retained. Pressure is applied hydraulically until
the required degree of density is obtained; and
thus the boards are fabricated with the natural
composition of wood and even greater strength,
an achievement never before attained.
387,000,000 square feet of Masonite were pro-
duced and sold in the United States during 1936.
MASONITE STRUCTURAL
INSULATION. is used for thermal
insulation and sound deadening in walls, ceilings,
and roofs. It is ideal for sheathing and floor
lining, and for interior wall and ceiling panelling.
It is very strong and rigid. One inch of
Masonite Insulation is equal in insulatory value
to 25 inches of concrete.
MASONITE QUARTRBOARD
replaces old style wall boards. It is the only
grainless all-wood wall board. It is strong,
dense and rigid; fully 4-inch thick and provides
greater insulating value than any wall board of
similar thickness.
MASONITE PRESDWOOD
The Wonder Board of a thousand uses; used
for every purpose from wall and ceiling
panelling to truck bodies and radio cabinets.
Its exceptional resistance to water or moisture
and its ability to withstand weather renders
Presdwood ideal for exterior wall construction.
Masonite Presdwood and Tempered Presdwood
have demonstrated their unique value for FLOOR-
ING, veneer cores and concrete forms.
MASONITE TEMPRTILE is Ten,
pered Presdwood treated to form four-inch sheet
tiles. It is exceptionally resistant to water,
moisture and abrasion. Masonite Temprtile makes
a perfect flooring material.
A WEALTHY INDUSTRY
The Masonite Corporation (U.S.A.) was incor-
porated in 1925 with a capital of 1,400,000 dollars
(approximately £280,000 sterling). Its plant had
an annual capacity of 14,000,000 feet. By 1932
the manufacturing facilities had been expanded
to approximately 175,000,000 feet.
“Time'' Magazine (October 9th, 1936) says:—
"Measured in plant capacity. Masonite has
grown fast. It is now able to turn out
more than 23.000,000 feet of .board per month
as against 2,000,000 in 1927. Measured in
profit. Masonite has grown even faster. After
a small loss the first year, its earnings
amounted to 411.000 dollars by 1929
dropped itno the red in only two depression
years and jumped to the record figure of
1,400,000 dollars (approximately £280,000
sterling) for the year just ended. All bonds
have been paid off. More than one-half of
the total assets of 4.800.000 dollars are
current, and its seven per cent, preferred
stock will be converted into a five per
cent, issue under the refinancing plan
announced last week."
The Masonite Corporation shares are listed on
the New York Stock Exchange, and on a recent
quotation a total value of 30.000,000 dollars is
placed on them. In 1927 a contract was made
for the erection of a plant in Sweden for the
manufacture of Masonite products under license.
This plant has been in continuous operation ever
since and is reliably reported to be earning
annual net profits of approximately 400,000
dollars. A further plant is -now in course of
construction in Italy.
APPLICATIONS FOR SHARES
Applications for shares will be received only
on the form of application referred to and
endorsed upon a printed copy of the - full Pros-
pectus. Copies of the Prospectus and Appli-
cation forms may be obtained from:
THE COMPANY'S BROKERS:
Messrs. Charles H. Smith & Co.
27 Hunter Street, Sydney.
Members Sydney Stock Exchange.
With whom as associated:—
Wallace H. Smith and Co., 351 Collins Street,
Melbourne, Members Melbourne Stock
Exchange.
Gurnet & McArthur, Grenfell Street,
ADELAIDE, Members Adelaide Stock
Exchange.
S. G. Brearley, 64 St. Georges Terrace,
PERTH, Members Perth Stock Exchange.
Henry Monteith & Co., 334 Queen Street,
BRISBANE, Members Brisbane Stock Ex-
change.
THE WONDER BOARD OF A THOUSAND USES


Bid! ill
! ' i '“iil'li-i
'lm ' '"l
pi 11
: I Hjjj|
- 3jl§|
■
;
in ??
aililiM
=-
mmi
HB
IBSi
if X uk
Iltlln
!|||j : ||r ™
NQI.il
;• . &'
ll !- i lul |, ‘ 11 ■- I'-. ■ Mil, i litu ! Ini iiih.,.' in l] : i
Use the A.M.P.
while you're young;
IT COSTS LESS
MANY young men put off becoming members of
the A.M.P., thinking that it will do just as well
later on.
Of course, any time is a good time to join up, but
when a man is young is the best time: it costs him less
then.
A certain member who now has 16 policies with
the Society did not become a member till he was thirty
years of age. The average premium paid by him works
out at £39 for each £l ,000 of his assurance.
Being a shrewd business man, he assured his sons
early in their lives. They are assured for £6,000, and
the average premium per £l,OOO is £B/16/4 on the
one and £lO/18/7 on the other. A big difference. A
very big difference when you consider that the saving
will operate in every year of the young men’s lives.
Assure early! Be courageous and invest as heavily
as possible in A.M.P. policies when you are young.
That way lies prosperity and happiness and contentment
when you are old. If you have sons, get them started
on the right track early in life.
Send to the nearest A.M.P. office for an experi-
enced adviser to help you discover the right track. Do
it to-day. Even to-morrow may be too late.
A.M.P. SOCIETY
The Largest Mutual Life Office in the Empire.
C. A. ELLIOTT. F.1.A., A. W. SNEDDON. F.1.A.,
Actuary. General Manager.
C. M. MARTIN,
Secretary and Chief Inspector.
D. E. WALKER,
Manager for New South Wales.
HEAD OFFICE: 87 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Branch Offices at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth and
Hobart.
District Offices throughout all States.
New Zealand Branch Office: Customhouse Quay, Wellington.
PATENTS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 422
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of I>. B. Davies,
M Sc and C'ollison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
’ * * * *
AUSTRALASIAN timberlands and plantation
valuation surveys, milling plants, certification of
shipments. L. MACINTOSH ELLIS, B.Sc. (late
Director State Forest Service, New Zealand). Consult-
ing Forest Engineer, 8 Bond Street, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
ALUMINOFERRIC is one of the most effective
preparations known to science for purifying and
clarifying water stored in dams, reservoirs, tanks,
etc For further particulars, write to William
Adams & Company, Ltd., 175 Clarence Street,
Sydney.— Advt.
Public Notice.
CORESTRY BONDS.—I pay up to £5 more
F per bond than other buyers for NX. Per-
petual Forests Bonds. —R. F. CORMACK, 440
Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
MINING PROPERTY
, . . . 7ft arrpc nf
lirNlJni VJI 1 IVVyi A *
TENDERS are invited tor a -Mg*!^‘VSir‘cS
A considerable amount of h l eve a nHhe Company has recently had a satisfactory report from
Mining Geologists are availab , ~ h s rec ently bagged and sent to Smelters showed a
a Geophysical Surveyor. Rich ore which wa Capital forthcoming,
satisfactory return. Reason fo I g“ ld L lquf d a or before 30th September, 1937
T en dC ßrG BOGONG MINES LTD. (In Liquidation)
B DIXON, Liquidator, 11C Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
with comfortable margins. Surplus earn-
ings, together with £25,000 annually set
aside for depreciation, enabled the debt
to be reduced and cash accumulated, as
the following table shows:
1927. 1935. 1936. 1937.
Paid capital.. £466,691 £499,257 £399,406 £399,406
Creditors .. 169,248 32,315 134,197* 31,646
Freeholds and
plant . . 522,335 399,773 389,916 365,959
Investments .. 35,009 35,009 35,009 35,009
Stores and
stocks .. 35,774 32,922 30,477 30,034
Book debts and
cash .. 22,160 186,601 208,959 143,737
* Including £99,851 provision for capital return.
Unable to use surplus earnings in the
business, the co. returned 4s. per share
(£99,851) early in the last term, reduc-
ing paid capital to £399,406 in 499,257
shares of 16s. each. This and the allow-
ance for depreciation account for all the
most important movements in last year’s
balance-sheet figures. Finances are obvi-
ously comfortable. The improvement in
the more or less liquid surplus (£142,125)
was £36,886.
The abolition of duty on British
cement in December, 1936, has not thus
far affected Australian manufacturers,
because home demand has taxed British
plants almost to capacity at higher prices
than could be obtained for export to
Australia. What will happen when and
if British demand falls substantially
behind English plant capacity remains to
be seen.
During t h e 12 months to June 30, the
Australian demand for cement continued
to expand, and this co., whose 100,000-
ton-p.a. plant is situated near Kandos
(N.S.W.), got its fair share Ot the in-
creased business. So, despite a cut of
, on in the s d, ing P prke duri „g
£ half o£ , he fj s , net
earni were £l9OB better at 112
Qn ca pj ta l
Qr curren t term, there is no-
thing in sight at the moment to suggest
a recession in demand, but costs are on
the up-grade. The 165.-paid shares at
17s. 6d. return a satisfactory 7.7 p.c. on
an 8 p.c. div. basis. The net tangible
cover is 21s. Id., over two-thirds of
which is represented by fixed assets,
worth what they can earn.
Rawang Tin Fields, Ltd.
Checkboring of the main area was
completed during the last term, and
dredging reserves are now put at
75,000,000 c.y. of |lb. dirt. On the
nominal capacity of existing plants—two
bucket dredges (combined monthly capa-
city 350,000 c.y.) and one 80,000-c.y.-
monthly sluicing unit —there is about 13
years’ work measured up. To work the
main area, a third dredge, to be paid for
out of liquid resources —£246,750 was
held in cash alone at Mar. 31—is now
proposed.
Owing to restriction and other things,
returns, relatively to the capital em-
ployed, have been moderate, though the
position is improving, thanks to the
lengthening of quotas:
Year
Ended f —Dividends?— ■,
Mar., Revenue. Exes. Surplus. Share. Amt.
1935. . £123,207 £56,991 £66,276 -/9 £65,700
( 182,836 90,616 92,220 -/9 65,700
‘ ’ I River deviation, £15,000.
I{m I 170,921 97,413 73,508 -/9 65,700
1 River deviation, £4OOO.
The slip of £11,915 in last year’s revenue,
which includes something from the share-
holding (63,800 £1 f.-ps.) in Rawang
Concessions and a profit from the power
plant, which is being enlarged, followed
reduced output. Here is a more detailed
analysis of the position:
Year , -Revenue v Exes. N
Ended Oxide, Divi- Other Mine, Depre— Bucket
Mar., Etc. dends. Income. Etc. ciation. Band.
’35 £104,230£13,291 £5746 £36,165 £20,826
’36 170,412 6,287 6137 62,988 23,628 £4OOO
’37 152,948 10,899 7073 64,608 25,806 7000
Last year £4OOO was earmarked for de-
viation of the Serendah River, an expen-
sive business owing to Government speci-
fications. Further heavy outlay is antici-
pated to acquire rubber lands through
which the deviation must pass.
Actually, owing to poorer ground, the
co. had to work harder to earn less:
t Dredging v Sluicing N
iqqa IQ*}? lQQfi IQR7
Cub. yds. .. 2,976,000 3,856,000 878,000
T. 0.. tons . . 752.6 746.4 463.4 323.8
Yield, pound.. 0.56 0.42 1.12 0.82
T’ment, pence. 1.97 1.95 4.54 4.49
Ore realisation price, ton: 1936, £135/10/10;
1937, £137/5/3. Singapore average metallic tin,
ton: 1936, £2ll/8/5; 1937, £212/15/2.
Despite the starting-up of No. 1 dredge
in Aug. after six years’ idleness—it turned
over 721,000 c.y. of 0.241 b. wash at an
average cost of 3.15 d. both dredging
and sluicing costs were got back a trifle.
No. 2 dredge, which worked under diffi-
culties in ground adjoining the opencast
mine, turned over 3,135,000 c.y. for an
average recovery of 0.471 b. t.o. at a cost
of 1.68 d. per yard. Metallic tin con-
tent of the oxide is high at 76.2 p.c.
Allowable production for the current
term, which will have the benefit of en-
hanced metal prices, is 1195 tons t.o. To
the end of July 382 tons had been
won from 1,627,000 c.y., which is a
slightly better recovery than last year’s
average. Profit-earning capacity will be
increased when the proposed new dredge
sets in.
Capital is £876,003 in 10s. shares,
priced at 12s. 6d. each on the market. At
balance date outsiders were owed
£32,620. Property was in the books at
£454,736, working and power plants
£170,000, liquids £328,718, other assets
£39,767. In addition, the Bang Toe prop-
erty, adjoining Pungah’s lease in West
Siam, which Rawang is financing in con-
junction with Anglo-Oriental and Larut,
figured at £10,683, cost of expenditure to
date. Of 55,000,000 c.y., averaging
0.571 b. t. 0., portions of the property are
at present the subject of surface rights
disputes.
Kramat Tin Dredging, Ltd.
Last term quota was raised from 51.5
p.c. to 68.7 p.c. of assessment (1140 tons
t. 0.). Average costs recorded little move-
ment, but better-grade ground was en-
countered :
1935. 1936. 1937.
Cubic yards .. 2,079,000 3,547,000 3,586,000
Recovery t. 0., tons 599
Av. yield c.y., lb. 0.50 0.51 0.63
Assay p.c. .. 74.8 7o 75.0
Ifjjf S”t C r £137/8/J «»/«/«
SI SS P M* V ’ mC “ h L2-/13/2 £2ll/19/10 £205,7/9
Thus, though the metal averaged less,
income lifted £30,012, and aggregate
divs., which are sent out thrice-yearly,
were raised from ss. to 7s. per share: *
, Dividends ——\
Mar., Revenue. Outgo. Surplus. Share. Amt.
1932.. £62,636 £32,638 £29,998 1/6 £lf,37j
1935.. 64,246 30,825 33,421 6/- «>2»O
1936.. 114,742 55,591 59,151 6/- £1,250
1937.. 144,754 80,867 63,877 7/-
Last year’s exes. included £9BBl
cost of quotas purchased, £3OOO tor
bucket-band renewal and £32,-2/ WP
£l5 745) for depreciation. On the basis
of the latest provision for depreciation,
plant and leases would disappear from
the accounts in three years.
As for the current term the co. has
already paid ss. per share. Permissible
quota, apart from what may be pur-
chased, has been lifted to 900 tons t.o.
At the end of July, the dredge, which
has been in lower-grade ground, had re-
covered 244 tons t.o. from 1,195,000 c.y.
At 90s. Aust. per £1 share, of which
165,000 are issued, the market values
the show at £598,000 stg. At present
rate of working, and with costs at
2d. a yard, smelting and royalty
charges at £25 per ton, and metallic
tin at £230 London, appearances are
that the investor will get his money
back in 10 years, and approx. 5 p.c.
p.a. thereon as well. At balance date
surplus liquids (£130,958) were equal to
15s. lOd. per share. When the books
closed there was approx. 36,500,000 c.y.
of 0.521 b. wash ahead of the dredge, or
10 years’ work at last year’s rate of
digging.
At Central Norseman, Norseman
(W.A.), an offshoot of Western Mining
Corp., the new power and treatment
plants, which cost over £66,000 and have
a capacity of 6000 tons of ore monthly,
started up on August 9. Owing to delay
in delivery of the main winder, full pro-
duction is not expected to be reached
for about three months. For the three
months to the end of July the co. treated
8187 tons (average 2729 tons a month)
for 19760 z. fine gold (average 4.Bdwt.
per ton), worth £17,470. Head value of
the ore and operating costs are not stated.
* * * *
Triton, which hopes to get the addi-
tions to its new 9000-ton-a-month . mill
under way by November, has struck
B.2dwt. stuff, width 7ft. 6in., on No. 3
level of the Emu South shaft. This cor-
responds to drill values. The south drive
is being extended to prove values indi-
cated by No. 16 drill, 260 ft. south of the
shaft. In September, 1936, estimated ore
reserves were put at 217,000 tons, averag-
ing 7.sdwt.
* * * *
At June 30 Tindals, Coolgardie (W.A.),
had proved 138,700 tons of ore, averag-
ing 4.66dwt., and estimated that there
was a further 54,000 tons of probable
ore of approximately the same value.
Development ore in the bins totals 4633
tons, averaging 4.lsdwt.
* :i: 3= *
Great Boulder Mining and Finance
(W.A.) raked in £25,132 from the Yellow-
dine div.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
R.0.D.: Edjudina Consolidated Gold Mines,
Ltd., and Edjudina Gold Mining Co., N.L., are
two separate concerns.' They have no connec-
tion whatever with one /another, though they
both operate in the Yerrilla district, N. Cool-
gardie field (W.A.)... .N.N.: At the moment
the shares appear to be more attractive than
the bonds, which are a long-term speculation;
guesses as to what return bondholders are likely
to receive in the long run aren’t worth much.
See B. 16/6/’37 and 18/8/’37... .X.Y.Z.: The
mine has opened up very nicely, and the
method of treating the ore is right. Chief
doubt is what effect present method of de-
velopment will have upon mining costs in the
future... .R.M.: General Motors-Holden’s. No
decision likely to be made until Tariff Board’s
report becomes available... .R.R.M.: (1) and
(2) Both offer fair prospects at present price.
(3) Depends on object in view. Some are and
some are not accepted for probate. If capital
appreciation is the aim, look elsewhere....
Pyrrhotite: (1) Full review will appear in next
week’s Bulletin. (2) Cannot say whether in-
terim will be paid, but earning prospects have
brightened T.C.A.: Write secretary, Bulolo
Gold Dredging, Wingello House, Angel-place,
Sydney, and New Guinea Gold Fields, Ltd.,
67 York-street, Sydney... .E.K.P.: (1) Doubt-
ful ; no open market. (2) Don’t think so. (3)
Gamble. (4) See B. 16/6/’37 and 18/8/’37.
E.H.R.: A gamble.


HOTEL METROPOLE
Be"t, Phillip and Sydnev
-
_ sSffaflr
|»Mt I, SSN * I * • WW%3
BHB2 (si ss.;
l*l;|fe,i.4w
&CJ ; ■ Mill ?4jpi> : &k
Modern high-class accommodation
at a moderate tariff. Hot and cold
water in all rooms. Rooms with
and without private Bathrooms
and Telephones available. Meals
at moderate rates unexcelled
cuisine Dining Rooms, Grill
Room, Banquet Room and Winter-
garden, together with a first-class
orchestra.
Rooms only from 6/6 per night.
Telegrams, Cables and Wireless
" METROPOLESydney.
Telephones: 8W2061 (9 lines)
86363 (4 lines)
SMOKE-OH!
The average girl likes a dancing part-
ner who is light on her feet.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Sit-down strikers aim at standing up
for their rights.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Fifteen-year-old Smash-and-grab Raiders.”
—News heading.
Kids’ takes!
4* 4* 4* 4-
The sins of the children have often to
be paid for by the fathers.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Should the captain of a cricket team be
given instructions about how to manage it?”
— “D.T.”
What are the barrackers there for?
4* 4* 4* 4*
“The referee stopped the fight in the third
round, after Boyle had been floored by a blow
to the jaw.”— “Sun.”
A Boyle-over evidently.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“A six-footed snake was found under the
house where empty bottles were stored.”
— “Sun."
It wasn’t an empty bottle that was re-
sponsible for that apparition!
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Wise men skirt their difficulties.” — “S.M.H.”
Probably because their difficulties
make them!
4* 4* 4* 4*
Economy in Color.
“Spring colors for men range from black
right through to green and bright crimson.”
—Fashion note.
A return to all-round-utility colors in
men’s wear is to be commended. It
simplifies the work of the conscientious
and thrifty wife who likes to make all her
husband’s clothes, and it means a con-
siderable saving in the household budget
to be able to improvise a couple of shirts
and a cravat out of last year’s bedspread.
As a girl I often gave dear mamma a
hand to convert a bit of slightly-worn
carpet into a pair of shepherd’s plaid
pants for papa.
The experience stood me in good stead
when I had McWhoosh on my hands
later. I’ve often knocked him up a
canary-colored waistcoat with crimson
quarterings out of a cushion cover when
he simply had to cut a dash somewhere
in a hurry, and wasn’t game to try to
cash a cheque.
For years the snappy jackets I made
for him out of discarded velveteen por-
tieres and sateen sofa covers were the
envy of all his friends, and the sunflower
pattern cretonne nightshirts which I ran
up out of the drawing-room curtains
when we were refurnishing set the
fashion that year.
Aggie McWhoosh.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“When my husband saw the private detective
he flew into a rage and attacked him.”
—Petitioner in divorce.
Now who said a watched pot never
boiled?
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Diverting Taxes.” —“Labor Daily” heading.
We shriek every time we get our assess-
ment!
4* 4* 4* 4*
Vernal Vibrations.
Spring is here, tra-la. Birds trill gaily
at their nest building, slugs and snails
ooze from their wintering to the seedling
beds, and early flies essay to skate in
the treacle. Lambs frisk and gambol in
the lush-grassed paddocks, ice-cream
carts tinkle hopefully about the streets,
and Grabski affirms he has evolved a
counter to Pullaparto’s Boston crab.
Shrubs and plants bedeck themselves
with colorful blooms, saps rise in trees
and from beds a bit earlier, and women-
folk hide away the unfinished jumpers,
pullovers and cardigans for which (as
they all along feared, mind you) they
hadn’t enough wool.
Flappers don hiking shorts, cricketers
get into flannels, class horses sport silk,
and suburban “henpecks” put on their
old gardening strides. Lifesavers begin
to crowd the beaches, seagulls seek
“Our captain says hes willing to swap four of your captains for a coupla
tins of sardines."
sanctuary on the channel buoys, and
butchers donate a sprig of mint with
the mutton.
Upon the second springlike day girls
inspect their noses for freckles, boarders
eye suspiciously the dry hash, and the
cockies send up a mighty howl for rain.
Tra-la.
Hanko.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“ ‘The Government,’ said the Minister of De-
fence, ‘prefers to defeat an enemy at sea rather
than turn the country into a shambles by
fighting him when he lands.’ He announced
that three small defence vessels would be con-
structed at Cockatoo Dock.”
Now let the enemy tremble!
*%
Bagpipe History.
“The idea that the bagpipes were invented
by the Romans has been exploded. The ques-
tion remains, ‘Who invented them?’ ”
—News item.
The Romans were certainly not respon-
sible. Hadrian built his wall to keep out
the bagpipe-armed Scots. He reasoned
that anyone who lugged a set of bagpipes
up a 20ft. wall wouldn’t have enough
breath left at the top for either blowing
or fighting.
As to the question of who invented the
instruments, the best authorities are
agreed that nobody did it deliberately,
but that they were the result of a series
of accidents. For instance, there is an
eighth-century record of one Tavish
McCohen discovering two new notes
while blowing up a bladder for the prepa-
ration of haggis.
A few centuries later border raiders
carrying home pigs stumbled on the idea
of the handbrake for producing pianis-
simo effects.
The Scots admit quite candidly that
they originally imported the bagpipes, and
as there were no tariffs in those days
this is quite feasible. They may have
been worked off on the Scots by
Phoenician traders as prizes for gift
coupons, but it is difficult to say who
dumped them on to the Phoenicians.
Perhaps some clue is provided by the
story of Joshua’s high-speed demolition
job at Jericho. He is said to have used
a trumpet, but it is much more likely that
he walked round and round the place
playing the bagpipes. The inhabitants
may even have pulled the walls down for
him as the only possible method of pre-
venting mass hysteria.
Angus O’Cohen.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“The new arrivals were met by fiends.”
— “S. M. Herald.”
They gave them a warm welcome, of
course.
“Anew organ can produce sounds like a
running river, rolling stones, rain, thunder and
tempest sounds, and even the cries of ani-
mals.” — “Sun.”
One day they’ll get one to produce
music.
•j*
Customs and Inhabitants of Our
Great Outback.
A figure around whom much legend
and song have been created is the drover.
Also known as “the blankard from the
bush,” his task is to create, by driving
through heavy jungle country a varied
assortment of special heavyweight bulls,
a “pad” or track so that settlers wishing
to penetrate farther into the vastness that
is outback Australia will not find it neces-
sary to hack their way through the dense
undergrowth.
In this national work the efforts of
the drover would be of little avail with-
out the co-operation of his trained troupe
of butcher-birds, whose powers of
mimicry make them one of the most
valuable species of the continent’s fauna.
Training these birds to imitate certain
calls and sounds is an essential part of
a drover’s apprenticeship, and it is said
that a journeyman drover places a higher
value on a good troupe of them than he
does on a wife.
The drover’s method of overlanding his
bulls is simple. Two of the best birds in
the pack are sent forward to keep just
ahead of the cattle, where they maintain
a continual imitation of a cow’s plaintive
call.
Birds out on each flank imitate the
deep rumbling growl of the native bears,
thus ensuring that the herd will keep
together for self-protection. The rest of
the birds keep close up behind the herd
and, in the high-pitched, caressing voice
the drover uses when cajoling the beasts,
give voice to such kindly phrases as:
“Please speed up, Baldy, and don’t lag
behind so,” and “Would you mind keep-
ing slightly more to the left, Nigger? I
thank you, one and all”!
The assistance given the drover by his
feathered friends enables him to concen-
trate on the handling of his whip. This
fearsome weapon is unique in the whole
animal-taming world, the whip itself
being a minimum length of 25ft., plaited
from the hide of a bull crocodile. As it
is necessary that this be cut in one
length, it follows that only crocodiles
25ft. or over in length are of any use for
the purpose.
The whip handle is made of heavy-
bamboo, in the hollowed end of which
the drover keeps his supplies of snuff,
Turkish cigarettes, his inter-State pass-
port, bills of lading, etc.
An expert with the whip can, while
blindfolded, ash a cigarette, behind him,
at 40ft. Mostly, however, the drover
uses the whip to flick off any flies or
mosquitoes that are annoying the bulls,
and to remove any saplings that may be
in the mob’s path. For this latter feat,
of course, it is sometimes necessary for
him to use both hands.
Clad in his sheepskin vest, Balaclava
cap and thigh gumboots — the boots
affording him protection against the
deadly platypuses, green tree snakes and
frilled lizards which abound in the sub-
tropical jungles—the drover is a striking
figure as he swings along trailing his
enormous whip and whistling instruc-
tions to his birds.
It might, be thought, particularly by
overseas readers and those who have
never ventured beyond the confines of
our cities, that a drover’s life is neces-
sarily a lonely one. Not so. Actually he
is in charge of a large entourage whilst
on the move. In addition to his chief
assistant drover and two under-drovers,
he has also his chef, whip-plaiter, navi-
gator, firewood-gatherer and bunk-
maker, interpreters for the various abo-
riginal tribes he is likely to encounter
on the route, a currycomber and a
docker. The duty of the last-named
official is to dock the tails of the bulls
so as to provide ox-tail soup for the party
(the great drovers’ strike of ’98 was
fought on the issue of providing this sus-
taining nourishment at the 11 a.m. and
4 p.m. “smoke-ohs”).
It was this practice among Australian
drovers of de-tailing bulls on the march
that gave the Abyssinian Gofa tribe the
idea of cutting steaks from their peri-
patetic oxen. In place of the length of
caudal appendage of which it has been
deprived, the bull is fitted by the docker
with an artificial tail.
S. W. K.
Something to Get Hot About.
“A doctor says there is nothing better for
jaded nerves or bad temper than sitting in a
very hot bath.”
Bad nerves or a temper might come up
to scratch
If you lower yourself, with some
curses,
Into water so hot that your breath it will
catch,
And on. rising you find there’s a deep
ruddy patch
On the portion one mostly immerses.
But how, may l ask, does the doctor
expect
Anyone to keep rest fully solemn
And his treatment to have a most tran-
quil effect
When, with macld’ning persistence the
shower will project
Icy drips down a man’s spinal column ?
BO.


XMAS FIJI EXCURSION
One Week in Fiji.
R.M.S. "Niagara”
leaves Sydney 23rd Dec.,
arrives Suva 31 st Dec.
R.M.M.V. "Aorangi”
leaves Suva 7th Jan.,
arrives Sydney 15 th Jan.
First Class Return Excursion Fare £33 (from Sydney)
EXCURSIONS TO HONOLULU
a delightful weeks’ trip: 19 days in Hawaii, or longer
if desired, by “NIAGARA” and “AORANGI,”
sailing every four weeks from Sydney.
Return Fares:—
First Class £72. Cabin Class £52.
(From Sydney)
Apply:—
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., LTD.
(inc. in N.Z.)
247 George Street, or 59 William Street,
Sydney Melbourne
WHEN YOU BUY A
a
KING
OF
THE
w
YOU CANNOT
BUY BETTER
Business,Rollery,Etc.
Montana Western Extended
Listed among the silver-lead issues on
Melbourne, Adelaide and Sydney
,^ u ~ , . w ,
Changes, .the ,2s shares in Montana
Western-Extended, working on the
Zeehan (Tas.) field, have been buoyant
at around" 12s. for some weeks, though
there were sales at 11s., then 11s. 9d., last
Friday.* Reports from the mine have been
coming out almost weekly, and 50-odd
applications for leases have been lodged
by various Melbourne people with the
Mines Department in Hobart. Atten-
tion has also been given to the area in
which the Sapphire Creek co. is inter-
esfed in a tin lode
' ,
Montana Western Extended was floated
in February this year, and paid the
, ..C. . J
vendors £3350 in cash. There are
150,000 shares issued.
The Zeehan mineral field, in which
silver and lead were the main attrac-
tions, was discovered in 1882, but little
serious work was done from 1910
onwards until recently. The richest mine
was that owned by the Western S.M. Co.,
formed in 1888, which paid £102,000 in
divs. on a capital of £4750. Zeehan Mon-
tana, formed Tn 1892, up to 1912 paid
divs. aggregating 186 p.c. on a paid
capital of £BO,OOO.
, , , • , r- , A f
I has proved a tricky field for pros-
pectors and investors, and in the early
days huge vendors considers!,ons were
oiten P a| d- Zeehan Queen, Mount
(fss onrn "TV handed ve| tdors
L 155,000) and Tasmantan Crown (pay-
ment to vendors, £135,317 155.) were
among the disappointments from a share-
holder’s standpoint.
The West Coast town soon lost all its
glory after the slackening-off in produc-
tion in the teens of this century. The
big smelters alongside the railway line
were shut down, and a desolate appear-
ance crept over Zeehan. In 1930 the
townsfolk pleaded with the Government
for assistance, asking that a programme
of diamond-drilling be carried out. Local
opinion inclined to the belief that the
town was built over a rich lode—the
post-office yard occasionally yields rich
quartz. The School of Mines, originally
erected near the railway station, was
years ago moved into the business centre
of the town because a vein of quartz was
discovered under its foundations. Rich,
patchy veins these finds usually turned
ou * - „ . a a c
Small private workings went on trom
time to time. In 1933 three seams of
high-grade galena, pitching north, were
found in the vicinity of the old Swansea
and Tasmania mines—from this pair
about £lOO,OOO worth of lead ore had
been taken during their short life. The
1933 discovery, proved over 100 ft. along
the surface, was to be tested at depth ;
The Bulletin’s records have no further
mention of it. The old Montana veins,
* h , ich occurred in fissures in darK crusneu
slato, averaged aboul Sm. m width and
values rapidly diminished with depth.
xhe £ ’ t which Montana Western
Extended is working is in the May Queen
area, 2\ miles nor’-west of Zeehan, and
\x m ii es nort h Q f t h e old Western work-
ings. Assistant Government Geologist
Blake has described the area (120 acres)
as being “entirely virgin” ; there were six
lode-channels on the surface, one, the
Clarke, exposed in places along a length
660 ft. and in a shaft to 40ft., reveai-
jng a shoot of ore driven on at the 3lit.
level , for a of 23ft width Bft. A
sample of clear galena taken over a
width of 6in. gave lead 68.1 p.c., silver
7 oz
_. , . . .
The lodes usually outcrop as quartz
veinlets in, and siliceous impregnations of,
the slates and quartzites, and only occa-
sionally exhibit sulphide minerals,
co. s manager spoke of a
780-ton block of galena. In July 18 tons
12cwt. was sold and returned £22 6s. 7d.
a ton was anticipated that ship-
ments °f galena trom time to time wou.d
™ re than cover cost of development,
About August 21 another 29 tons was
dispatched A week or two earlier a
shoot of galena, 106 ft. long and pitching
north > was Meanwh.le the
prospecting shaft has got down to 43ft.,
main shaft, 500 ft. north from the
adit 33(t A ’ wjnze from the adit and
the ' main are be connected by a
d ,.j ve wben t| le 100 ft. level is reached at
a b end. s top ; n g was j n progress at the
end o£ Au t p
_, . .
1S report published in the pros-
pectus, engineer Thos. I. Dyson stated:
From my close knowledge of the Zeehan
and as a result of my inspection of
die May Queen area, I am of the opinion
that a p a B j ves eve^ y Promise of de-
veiopmg similarly to the Montana and
Western mines - .
The Western paid £102,000 in divs.; the
Montana perhaps £150,000. The present
M.W. Extended co. is capitalised by the
market at £75,000 when the scrip is at
10s.; £90,000 at 12s. Results equal to
those won by the old Western co. at
least are required to justify such a
market. Though metal prices of to-day
are more favorable, the new mine, in an
“entirely virgin” area, is still far from
being a proved proposition,
'
Broken Hill South’s record profit of
, 0 ~, , , . .
£7 «8,316 was earned on a market in
which lead averaged £23 2s. Bd. sterling
and zinc £2O 2s. lid. sterling for the year
to June 30. Last week lead was around
£2l 10s. and zinc around £23. At the
prevailing quote of 50s. for the ss. shares,
and with metals priced as they are, some-
thing more than 10 years’ profits are re-
quired to return the market capitalisa-
tion—that is, assuming costs remain
stable.
* * * *
Heavy selling of B.H.P. shares fol-
lowed announcement of the new issue
terms —one for three at 30s. The scrip
dropped from 85s. to 81s. early last week,
and the return offering (when the new
scrip is fully paid) rose to a little under
£3 14s. p.c., the net price per share after
exercise of rights being about 68s. It
seemed a good opportunity for buying.
Last year’s disclosed earnings (£1,183,000)
would represent about 17 p.c. on the
capital when the new issue is fully paid.
The new money, of course, may be ex-
pected to earn something towards its
keep. The co. says there is no great
boom in steel consumption in the Com-
monwealth ; it is merely that Australian
manufacturers have captured the market.
B.H.P. is certainly working at high pres-
sure, and better things may be expected
from Port Kembla later on.
* * * ff
Huddart, Parker, with an ord. interim
at rate of 10 p.c. p.a., has swept back
into market favor. The lift came as a
surprise, because in the year to Dec. 31,
1936, earnings were sufficient to pay only
8 p.c. on ord. capital—7-jr p.c. was actually
handed out. Lowest quote this year was
375., and in July 395. 3d. was taken. Last
week 465. was paid, representing the
highest price in recent years. Yield is
£4 Bs. lOd. p.c., allowing for the accrued
div. The co. has interests in coal, other
shipping, Amalgamated Wireless and
Australian National Airways among its
investments.
A record profit, equal to 12.6 p.c. on
its increased average capital, was shown
by Castlemaine Perkins, the big Bris-
bane brewery, for the 12 months to July
31. In the preceding term 11.1 p.c. was
netted. A 2 p.c. jubilee bonus added to
the 8 p.c. div. makes 10 p.c. for the year.
It may mark a return to the 10 p.c. divs.
which were paid during 1928-30. From
the time slump commenced up to the
present nothing less than 8 p.c. has been
distributed.
As the time of testing of the under-
taking as a large-scale producer draws
nigh, shares in the Emperor, Fiji, have
been dealt in nervously by the share-
market. In the middle of August, about
the time E. G. Theodore left Melbourne
to visit the mine, there was a sudden lift
in the 10s. shares to 175., but it was
short-lived. Support has fluctuated errati-
cally since, and last week saw 14s. Id. on
the sales-board. Initial funds (£750,000,
including the vendors’ £600,000 cut)
weren’t enough to see plant-erection car-
ried right through, and 52,450 new shares
were issued at par, under terms of the
vendors’ option. It will be interesting to
note how Emperor, largest of the Fiji
floats, pans out. Completion of plant is
somewhat behind early anticipations.
The Tavua district is a new field, at one
time much boosted in the sharemarkets.
There have been a number of disappoint-
ments among the smaller fry,
A decided weakness was shown in
Carlton Brewery (Melb.) shares last week,
sales being recorded at 635. on Wednes-
day. The scrip has been up to over 68s.
in recent months, the increased div. (15
p.c. p.a.) having attracted buyers for a
time. But at last week’s quote Carlton
offered one of the highest returns avail-
able from Commonwealth brewery
stocks —£4 14s. 9d. per cent., as against
£3 11s. sd. p.c. in the case of Tooth and
Co., Sydney, and £3 13s. 9d. p.c. (8 p.c.
basis) from Castlemaine Perkins, Brisbane.
* * * *
Briseis Tin (Tas.) turned out 30 tons
tin oxide for August, an average of
1.241 b. per yard, as against 29 tons (aver-
age 1.381 b.) in July. Costs for August
were Is. 4.3 d., as against Is. 6.1 d. in
July. Recoveries generally are not up
to prospectus estimates so far. Latest
costs are better than early calculations.
It will be some time, however, before a
fair idea of likely recoveries and costs
can be gathered.
Hume Pipe Co. (Aust.) last week de-
clared a net profit equal to 11.2 p.c. on
capital, the greatest in the co.’s history.
The div. was lifted from 5 p.c. to only
6 p.c. (final at rate of 7 p.c.). The
market celebrated the occasion by pay-
ing 225. for the shares, then 21s. 3d. and
20s. 6d. Highest quote this year was
225. 3d. There seem to be any number
of cos. ready to make pipes; hence
the caution with which the Hume co.’s
bumper showing has been received by
the sharemarket. The co. has half a
million of capital.
j{c sfc ;;
If the quantity of gypsum mined in
South Aus. over the last 12 months is
any guide, an appreciable lift in the
profits of Australian Gypsum for the
year to June 30 last, could have been
expected. Profits (£26,073) were dis-
closed at only £1033 higher, and the dis-
tribution to shareholders was unchanged
at 7 p.c. Australian Gypsum Products,
in which the co. owns 350,000 shares, is
the operating co. The sharemarket was
disappointed.
The prevailing sickness in Mt. Morgan
shares didn’t let-up last week, despite
reports of developments and anticipated
improvements at the mine. Eric Camp-
bell, asked about stories concerning the
•erection' Of smelters, said the general
meeting would be held at the end of Sep-
tember, when the co.’s future policy would
be discussed.' A foregathering of share-
holders in September will be earlier than
usual.
; In -Melbourne last week:
Lancefield scrip was weaker at 11s. 10d.,
following the ' general trend of the market.
Tritons sold around 95., and Lake View and
Stars at 225. lOd. Mt. Morgans showed a
Taint rallying as the week went on; Golden
Plateaus were steady around 13s. 6d. Wel-
lington Alluvials dropped back to 6s. sd.
Associated Pulp contribs., paid to 17s. 6d.,
had further dealings at 21s. Bd. .This price has
been maintained for some time.
Drug Houses shares attracted little support
at the depressed quote of 255.
Castlemaine Perkins.
Cum a 6 p.c. distribution, the
shares in this progressive brewery
represent good buying at around
26s. 9d. The year’s results are
mentioned elsewhere.


w
• ' .T* a
ittS If.
■?» i
il M
avyre
idi
®S
is
For full information and all literature on
Fiji write
FIJI PUBLICITY BUREAU, Suva, Fiji
THOMAS COOK & SON, UNION
S.S CO. LTD., MATSON NAVIGA-
TION CO., Sydney & Melbourne
PICKFORDS TRAVEL SERVICE Clo.
Da gety & Co. MR. F.W. HENNINGS;
Master Builders’ Exchange; 12 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, Australian Representative
of the Fiji T ourist Bureau.
Sunshine* Sport,
Clamour—await
i|du new in FIJI
Fiji - a magic paradise of tropic sun-
shine, set in sapphire seas - less
than a week's journey from Sydney !
Leave winter behind and bask now
in colourful tropic summer where
sport and recreation await you. See
picturesque native villages - quaint
customs and ceremonies of native
races - visit coral islards of unsur-
passed enchantment and revel in
carefree hours amid idyllic sur-
roundings. '
For the holiday of your dreams,
come this winter to Fiji - islands of
colourful enchantment.
""'lltil
iSLRrms o
Hi
IF
%
5t
t. mf
ITS THE
TEAM
that pulls fke load
and it is the Bank that gathers together the
money of thousands of depositors and lends
it where it assists production and marketing.
Those sums not needed by their owners for
a time, many of them too small to be used
separately, but substantial when accumulated
in the Bank, are made available to assist
farmers and manufacturers to increase pro-
duction and trade. Ask our officers for
particulars of interest-bearing term deposits.
SYDNEY BOARD OF ADVICE
Sir Colin Campbell Stephen, Chairman; Hunter White Esq.
Lt.-Col. the Hon. T. A. J. Playfair, D. 5.0., 0.8. E., V.D., M.L.C.,
State Manager: Thos. Church
BANK
of Australasia Limited awt »vm "*^s!
42/24/37
ASSETS 31* T MARCH 1937 €51.000.000
Shares in Bankers and Traders’ Insur-
ance sold at 325. last week, the best price
since the publication of somewhat dis-
appointing accounts about three months
ago. Then 14.6 p.c. was shown on capi-
tal, as against 20 p.c. in the preceding
term. The co. has net tangible assets
amounting to about 245. per 10s. share,
and, with a better underwriting experi-
ence looked for this year, something
greater than the present 7 p.c. div. is
possible in the near future. Capitalisa-
tion of some of the reserves seems likely ,
the question is just when. Present yield
is about 2.2 p.c. on the div. distribution.
* * * *
Mineral Developments (Fiji), Ltd.,
which abandoned the Banana Isles some
time ago, is on something at Forest
Reefs, near Orange (N.S.W.), that sounds
interesting if it could be handled on a
large scale. Diamond-drilling over 2000 ft.
is said to have revealed a large ore-
body going down to at least 600 ft., aver-
aging above 6dwt., with more than
400,000 tons indicated. In cases such
as this a good deal depends on the even-
ness of values in the lode material,
amenability to treatment and mining
conditions. At Cadia, about five miles
from Forest Reefs, gold and copper are
usually associated.
* sk ik si«
Payable values in calc-schist in various
parts of North Kalgurli’s property were
mentioned at the annual meeting in Lon-
don on July 24. In the old days on the
Golden Mile the presence of calc-schist
used to be considered the end of the sec-
tion. Recently North Kal. has perhaps
been the most successful of all mines
operating in Westralia as regards the
opening-up of new bodies of high-grade
ore. More than twice last year’s ex-
tracted tonnage was developed during the
same period, and grade has been main-
tained. Extraction of 90 p.c. by the joint
treatment plant is very fair considering
that it is a flotation process, called for
by the nature of the ore.
Shares in Mandated Alluvials (Papua),
up to over 40s. last year and down to
Is. 2d. in 1937, with sales at 2s. in
August, changed hands at 3s. sd. for a
time last week. L. J. Davis is at present
visiting the mine, and a balance sheet is
expected shortly.
sjc * H* $
The improved profits of Davies, Coop
and Co., makers of denims, cotton-
tweeds, etc., Melbourne (B. 1/9/’37),
were anticipated, and, after a sale at
225. 9d. just before the announcement,
activity in the stock has been practi-
cally nil, a seller asking 235. for some
time, then sales at 225. 3d. and 225. It is
another instance of the market anti-
climax that has followed the showing of
good profits by several industrial cos. just
recently. However good showings have
been in most cases, they haven’t been
good enough to sustain further market
appreciation.
$ # * *
Sales of Myer ords. (B. 1 /9/’37) on
Aug. 31 were as low as 355. 6d.; next
day they lifted to 365. 3d. and 375., then
slackened again. Accounts should be
out shortly, and the final div. has
been declared at 3 p.c., plus 3 p.c. bonus,
making 9 p.c. for the year, as against Bj-
p.c. last term. Yield at 375., cum div.,
is 5 p.c. on the basis of distribution.
* * * *
Ords. in H. B. Dickie, Ltd., towel
manufacturers in Melbourne, sold at 245.
6d. last week, ex the dividend. This is a
shade weaker than recent dealings, and
the yield obtainable is 5.7 p.c. on a
7 p.c. div. basis. It is a stock of some
interest.
* * * *
Austin Distributors, Melbourne, sold
1034 new vehicles during the year to
June 30 last, an increase of 336 com-
pared with the previous term. Ex
div., the co.’s £1 ords. have changed
hands lately at 455., after 50s. some time
ago.


sdfgadsf
@ Racing
Hunting
Shooting
0 Sight-seeing
BINOCULARS
At a lower price the new Spindler and
Hoyer Binoculars are sturdy and excep-
tionally light—have independent eye-
piece adjustment as well as centre
focus. Complete with leather case and
strap. Barge., 8 x 40, 190 z., £l6.
Average size, 8 x 30, 160 z,, £l5.
Write for particulars.
E. ESDAILE & SONS,
42 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
’Phone, 8W3131 (2 lines).
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Even Sydney proprietary clubs can get
good fields and good racing if they give
decent prizes. The Canterbury Park
concern put up £5OO for a six-furlongs
w.f.a. race and £525 for its Guineas.
Not enough to tempt owners of Vic-
torian horses, who are used to much
better ; but all the noted three-year-olds
in Sydney, save Caesar and Lynch Law,
were saddled up for the Guineas, and
Lynch Law started in the Stakes along
with Talking, Mala and seven others,
including The Marne. And they were
very interesting races.
Talking was favorite for the Stakes,
and people who swallow the rubbish
written about Cooper and the horses for
which he gave such fantastic prices lost
their money again. This time the whip,
unused by Heather at Warwick Farm,
was applied to Talking by Darby
Munro, but it made no difference, so
another excuse had to be found —“he
couldn’t go down the hill.”
Actually, Talking had every chance
and couldn’t go the pace. He was never
farther back than fourth, but when Munro
tried to take him up to The Marne,
who had been running third to Lynch
Law and Gay Chou, Kelso’s horse
simply galloped away from him. Lynch
Law, who ran a very creditable race,
shook off Gay Chou, but The Marne,
excellently ridden by Weiss, cut him
down and won by half a neck. Mala,
running past a lot of beaten horses,
some of which looked short of work
and one —Theolos —has gone poor, was
another half-length away. He was
promptly pronounced “a marvel” by a
section of the press, but in no circum-
stances could he have beaten The
Marne, and The Marne is not really a
w.f.a. horse. The time was Imin. 13-2-sec.
The Marne carried 9st. 21b., giving
Talking and Mala 21b. He is in the
Epsom with Bst. 91b.; Talking has 9st.
21b. With Bst. 21b. The Marne started
favorite last year and missed a. place.
Apropos, Talking won a two-year-old race
at Canterbury when a “green” colt, so
the story that the course bothered him
won’t wash.
Talking was 6 to 4, Lynch Law 5 to
2 ; The Marne’s price was returned at
8 to 1, but few bookmakers laid him
at that price. This Page got 12 to 1 for
its ten bob, and 14 to 1 was heard.
There was a lot of crowding and
jostling in the Guineas, and Bristol, the
favorite (at twos) was among those who
suffered. So was Perimond; he was
squeezed several times, and the experi-
ence took all the go out of him. But
Bristol, who is made of tough stuff,
kept plugging on. Although there
didn’t seem to be much chance for
him even at the home turn, where,
though he had moved into fourth posi-
tion, he was several lengths behind
Brazandt and Birthday Boy, the Pan-
theon colt responded so gamely to
McCarten’s exertions that he cut Birth-
day Boy down in the last few strides to
win by half a head. Bourbon, a likely-
looking customer, who also came home
well, was third, another head away, and
Brazandt fourth. So Kelso’s horses won
a double and Jamieson’s horses were
second to them. The time, lmin. 56sec.,
was asserted to be slow, but the track
was anything but fast.
Jovial Son, owned by “Miss Lorna
Doone,” has cost punters a heap of
money. Made favorite for the Canter-
bury Handicap, he went sourly through-
out. Dulcedo, from Queensland, though
Newcastle-owned and -trained nowa-
days, had the race won at the top of
the straight. Confab acted as pacemaker,
but was no match for the winner, whose
price eased to fours. Friar’s Switch,
tailed off early, made a fast run turning
for home, but finished a poor third.
An exciting finish in the Flying Han-
dicap saw Bulldozer (7 to 1) pip the
favorite Moonray on the post. It was
a good effort on the part of the Bull-
head horse, as he gave Moonray a big
start commencing the last two furlongs.
Povertdale also finished fast, and ran
third. Aureus was backed in preference
to his stable-mate Überous. Wide out
all the way, Aureus finished weakly.
Hammerhead (15 to 1) gave the Ring
a turn in the first division of the Park
Stakes ; he led throughout. He is by
Welcome’s sire, Royal Sun. Rummage
(4 to 1) made hacks of her opponents in
the second division. In the third division
Abbs started two: Gymkhana, an even-
money favorite, and Bramol (6 to 1).
Gymkhana played up at the barrier, was
sent to the outside and never even
looked like justifying the odds. Bramol
won nicely from Hermoine and Diatter.
A lucky run on the rails enabled Peter
Pan’s half-brother Brazilian to win the
Ashbury Handicap at threes. Irish
Morn and Heroina acted as pacemakers,
but they swung wide at the turn, and
most of the runners followed them.
Darby Munro was not slow to grasp the
opportunity on Brazilian, who could not
have scored had he gone round his field.
An inquiry into the running of Soot was
opened by the stewards. She had drifted
in the betting.
# * Sfe 3fS
Black Mac (Beau Fils - Faluga)
paralysed Caulfield spectators on Satur-
day by carrying weight-for-age and de-
feating a small but high-class field in the
Memsie Stakes. The runners included
Plymouth Sound (imp.), Regular Bache-
lor, Young Idea, Charles Fox and Prince
Quex, each of whom carried 71b. penalty.
Also engaged were Damalis, a Derby and
Cup candidate, and Captain Drake, raced
by H. R. Telford in conjunction with
J. J. Hackett, of Sydney. A 71b. allow-
ance was claimed for Captain Drake.
In September of last year Black Mac
won a Maiden Handicap at Moonee
Valley. The rise of this gelding has been
romantic. Bought by P. C. Einseidel,
of Pakenham, as a yearling he was leased
to Norman Leek, who won the Caulfield
Cup of 1898 on Hymettus. Raced with-
out success for three seasons, he was re-
turned to the owner by H. Leek, who
had looked after Black Mac during his
brother’s illness. E. McNaughton took
over the lease ; Black Mac soon after-
wards opened his winning account, and
he has since stamped himself the most
improved horse in Australia.
As recently as March last Black Mac
was beaten in a Trial Handicap at Wil-
liamstown. Successes in better company
followed, and even before he shaped so
well in the Underwood Stakes (standard
weight-for-age) at Williamstown on
August 28 the six-year-old son of Beau
Fils was regarded as a Melbourne Cup
possibility.
In the Williamstown event Black Mac,
. ridden by W. Little, was quoted at 50
to 1. Ray Wilson, his Melb. Cup pilot,
had the mount on Saturday, and the best
price on offer at barrier rise was 9 to 2,
after twelves had been laid to small
amounts. Damalis was a 5-to-4 favorite,
and Young Idea met with heavy support
at threes; yet Black Mac was in such
solid commission that bookmakers prob-
ably came out on the wrong side.
Three-quartefs of a mile from home
Black Mac was a dozen lengths behind
the second-last horse. Then began a
forward move which for the moment
excited little notice. .Young Idea took
over control from Charles Fox on the
turn and looked assured of success.
Black Mac suddenly loomed up in the
centre of the course. Stretching out like
a champion he had Young Idea settled at
the half-distance and won, running away,
by 1| lengths.
Half a length behind Young Idea,
Damalis finished courageously, but his
form was rather disappointing from a
Derby angle, and the hopes of Lou
Robertson in that direction must have
diminished. Damalis does not measure
up to Feldspar and Garrio, with whom
Robertson ran second and third in the
Victoria Derby two years ago.
Black Mac immediately became favor-
ite for the Melbourne Cup. And then
on Monday it was reported that he had
run a nail into a foot and was in a
rather bad way.
It was a day of sensations at Caulfield.
The first of these was when Valiant
Chief (5 to 4 on) finished a poor fourth
in the six-furlongs Whittier Handicap.
Unruly at the post, he lost several lengths
in the jump-off. When Breasley drew
the whip in the straight Valiant Chief
refused to stretch out. On top of the
Underwood Stakes failure a week before
this display does not speak well for the
spring future of Archie Crofts’s star gal-
loper.
The Whittier Handicap was won by
Night Gang (5 to 1), with Great Legend
and Sir Grey in the minor places. Night
Gang had a lot in hand. Before being
purchased by a Melbourne sportsman he
won six successive sprint events in S.A.
Avenger has come along with leaps
and bounds since he ran second to Ajax
at Caulfield on August 14. On that oc-
casion he was in receipt of 301 b. Many
Melbourne people now believe that the
Pantheon colt will outrival Ajax in the
A.J.C. Derby at even weights—it has
been definitely decided to send him to
Sydney.
In the Warriston Handicap, meeting
him on a stone better terms than on the
occasion of their last encounter, Ron-
sardian was accorded a slight preference
over Avenger (3 to 1). With every
chance in running, Ronsardian snuffed
out at the half-way stage. Being a slow
beginner Avenger was really disadvan-
taged by drawing No. 1 berth. Squeezed
out, he dropped to the extreme rear, and
was 15 lengths behind the leader at the
six-furlongs pole. What happened there-
after is reminiscent of how Manfred won
his Heatherlie Handicap after losing 50
yards at the start.
Taken to the outside along the rail-
way stretch, Avenger had to go round
five horses on the bend. Backers of
Jack Holt’s candidate had given up hope.
They cheered wildly when Avenger
smothered the leaders and bolted home
2} lengths in advance of Nlghtguard,
with Stoic (who should win soon) in
third position.
Lautus (5 to 2) amply justified favorit-
ism in the first division of, the Doona
Trial, Rostrim (4 to 1) being fairly and
squarely beaten. The second division
went to Pageant, who luckily beat Blue
Sky by half a head. Blue Sky had a bad
passage. He will be improved by the
outing.
Third in the last Melbourne Cup,
Balkan Prince is again an inmate of
Holt’s stable after racing in Westralia,
where he is owned. Though served up
favorite for the Heatherlie Handicap,
Balkan Prince was palpably short of con-
dition, and ran accordingly. Well backed
at fives, Stevenage won by less than a
length from the consistent Beau Roi,
third place going to Donaster.
* * # *
Again in answer to inquiries, which
keep coming in, The Bulletin at the
moment likes The Chanter for the Epsom
and Mestoravon for the Metropolitan.
But, though Young Crusader looked a
good thing for the 1936 Metrop. from
the declaration of the weights, nothing
stands out this year, and this Page wants
to see more racing before it makes up
its mind. It likes The Trump for the
Caulfield Cup, and thinks Bristol has a
chance in the Melbourne Cup ; but here
again more racing is required. The
Trump may not stand up to it.
* * * *
“Unk”: There must be some animated
discussions in the Kelso family circle
about the respective merits of Avenger
and Bristol. Avenger’s dam, Chatter-
box, was trained by Jack Kelso ; Bristol’s
(Bairn) by his father. The mares were
racing in Sydney about the same time,
and both were rattling good sprinters
and as honest as the day. Tuckerbox,
who showed a bit of form at Warwick
Farm, is a half-brother to Avenger, being
by Constant Son-Chatterbox.
* * * *
J. J. Miller’s Sporting Annual is out.
It has been coming to The Bulletin for
57 years, and this paper’s horsey man
says he couldn’t do without it.
* * * *
Simply and solely because he is a
better horse in Sydney than in Mel-
bourne, Panax has made the trip again
by boat. Though he has run pretty well
in recent efforts, he has come down in
the weights, so he ought to pick up a
race or two, even if the Epsom is too
hard for him. He was fifth in the last
Epsom with 7st. 111 b. and has the same
weight this time. That Epsom was the
only race in which he has been unplaced
at Randwick: in the autumn of 1935
he won the Vaucluse and Rous Handi-
caps and was third in the Coogee Handi-
cap ; in the spring he was second to The
Marne in the Tramway Handicap.
* * * *
“Middleham”: Cooper, the owner of
Talking and Mala, has sold St. Constant
for £l, being “fed up with him.” Tt
recalls the idiosyncrasies of Lord Glas-
gow, of Regency and early-Victorian
days. Immensely rich, Glasgow was a
heavy buyer of young stock and a
breeder as well, but somehow invariably
found himself landed with a lot of duds.
Certainly he never gave the young ’uns
much chance to improve with age, for
periodically he had the lot rounded up
and shot, thereupon making a fresh start.
He was famous otherwise as the only
man ever known to have shut up Lord
George Bentinck. Lord George asked
one day in White’s for a wager against
one of his horses, and Glasgow offered
him 2 to 1. “Ah, but I want it to
money," said the supercilious one.
“Well, a hundred thousand to fifty thou-
sand,” growled the ex-admiral. Lord
George changed the subject.
Footbrawl
Collingwood won the first V.F.L. semi-
final by downing Richmond 18-12 to
10.9. Richmond failed to take full ad-
vantage of early scoring opportunities,
and Collingwood was much the steadier
team. Play was generally disappointing,
and there were only occasional flashes
of the spectacular. Attendance, 41,000.
By a desperate last-quarter rally
Prahran caught and passed Brunswick in
Melbourne’s Association “grand final” to
win its first V.F.A. premiership by two
points, 12-13 to 11-17. Rough play char-
acterised early stages of the game, and
five men were reported.
* * * *
At Christchurch the Springboks won
the second Test with the All-Blacks by
13-6 (two converted tries and a penalty
goal to two tries) and thus levelled the
account outstanding between their
countries. In the first half the home
team had all the better of it, scoring two
tries to nil and giving a wonderful dis-
play in the loose. The second half was
all Springbok, the tourists dominating in
pack, loose and lineout. The fine weather
and dry ground were to the ’Boks’ taste,
but the return of Brand to the team made
a great difference, his boot, with two
conversions and a p.g., being respon-
sible for his side’s winning margin. The
crowd numbered 42,000. The Test score
between the sides is now three wins and
a draw apiece, with one more Test to
go at Auckland. Including the Christ-
church game, the ’Boks have scored 73
points to the All-Blacks’ 63.
* * * *
Drummoyne, beaten 13-10 by Eastern
Suburbs, has dropped out of the run-
ning for the Sydney Rugby Union pre-
miership. The Eastern hooker rarely
missed getting the ball from the scrums,
and his side finished with two tries to
one. East and ’Varsity meet next week,
the winner to have another crack at
Western Suburbs. Down 6-12 at half-
time the Westerners were trailing ’Var-
sity 16-17 with only two minutes to go.
Uni. had lost a forward shortly after
the resumption. A snap try to the West
centre Barnes gave his team the lead
(for the first time) and the game, 19-17 —
four tries each.
('Continued on page 30.)
FOR RANDWICK ON SATURDAY.
Chelmsford Stakes: The
Chanter; next, Lynch Law or Birth-
day Boy (same stable).
Tramway Handicap: Panax or
Red Thespian; next, Tuckiar.
Novice Handicap: Aladdin; next,
Slanchivar.
Spring Handicap: Mestoravon ;
next, Silenus or Speardale.
Welter: Panax or Bradford;
next Silenus or Birthday Boy.
FOR MOONEE VALLEY.
Budgeree Handicap: Diaphane ;
next, Manolive.
M.V. Stakes: Damalis; next,
John Wilkes.
Nulla Nulla Welter: Great
Legend ; next, Sir Grey.
Corroboree Maiden: Campaspe ;
next, Con Devon.


ESTABLISHED 1834
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED
WITH WHICH IS AMALGAMATED
THE BANK OF VICTORIA LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND . . . , . . . . 4,300,000 0 0
(Used wholly in the business.)
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
Directors;
James Ashton (Chairman); Edward R. Knox; Owen E. Friend;
Sir Wm. Vicars, C.8.E.; Orwell Phillips.
General Manager: C. Darvall.
HEAD OFFICE: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout New South Wales,
Victoria, Queensland, South Australia, and Canberra, F.C.T.
Agents throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
QuMt
u eon.e, **
, "■>«'" of >• a
"kV !■"»'*“* !,( fI aVoUV '*
*' *«*.'»”'“ «»*»• , S So» U*“
» v * , L»‘\° cIU Sand ers ° U i«63.
id Scotch s \oce
die ' aVS ' { line " Au V Ae«' allds * ’
rr “T* .ooa i“ ase
' ..,,,1.1 1 “ ’ _ nun bo" 1
“Val
Distributors: John Woods and Co., Ltd., 388 Sussex Street, Sydney.
Sub Agents: Pitt, Son & Badgery, Ltd., 4 O Connell Street, Sydney.
Q’land Distributors: Australian Estates Co., Ltd., Creek St., Brisbane.
HP
1 hink it out! Every day of
your life your smartness
depends upon your morning
shave. Why not have the very
finest self-stropping razor?
*
m
V
VALET
Shave with a "Valet” —it is simple, quick and efficient.
For with a "Valet” there is nothing to take to pieces,
nothing to unscrew. Stropping and cleaning are a matter
of seconds, and every blade gives a perfect shave
for weeks on end. Get a "Valet” —the original self-
stropping razor —still the simplest and best.
The Set illustrated is the No. 55 NICKEL SET. In highly-
polished nickelled case lined with velvet. The Set comprises a
self-stropping "Valet” razor, three "Valet” blades J
and a strop of good quality in hinged container. IMm ™
OTHER SETS FROM 4/6 TO 65/- ... OF ALL DEALERS . . . BRITISH MADE
Managing Agents for Australia:
PHIPSOIN & COMPANY (PTY) LTD., 181 Clarence St., Sydney
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
f o the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original
M.Q. and Rafferty
A Real Fighting Man.
There is physical courage and there is
moral courage “two-o’clock-in-the-
morning courage,” Napoleon called it.
Many people have one sort and are de-
ficient in the other. Tommy Farr proved
in his fight with Joe Louis in New York
that he possesses a full measure of both.
No boxer ever shaped up in more dis-
couraging circumstances? He was a
despised pug in a strange country with a
climate which, so different from that of
his Welsh mountains, he had to get ac-
customed to somehow in a few weeks.
His weight must have troubled him. A
couple of years ago he was a 12-stoner,
and here he was scaling in the neighbor-
hood of 15 stone. Four days before the
fight he went 14 stone 111 b. He came
down to 14st. B|lb. Photographs which
have reached Australia indicate that he
was too bulky from the hips up ; he has
comparatively slim legs.
Louis weighed 14st. lib. The coon is
not well built for a champion, his legs
being too fat; also he has what Tunney
has called a tin chin. But he must have
been in better shape than the Welshman.
• Excluding Fitzsimmons, who never
boxed in his native country, the prestige
of British heavyweights has been low in
the U.S.A. for nearly 40 years. This
was recalled to Farr by American box-
ing writers with insulting additions, such
as that Bombardier Wells couldn’t, and
“Fainting Phil” Scott wouldn’t, “take it.”
They contemptuously put it to him that
he would follow the tradition of “hori-
zontalism.”
None of them gave him a chance.
Some predicted that Louis would stop
him in the first round; others,, that he
would be stiffened by the first punch.
The betting was 10 to 1 on the black.
Max Baer and Schmeling added to the
chorus of jeers, and Farr, an intelligent
fellow, knew that if he were knocked out
early he would be savagely hooted by
the New York crowd ; the Australian
Blatch had to suffer this experience when
he was beaten by Armstrong, another
coon.
On top of all, he had an unhealed cut
just under his left eye, the result of a
blow delivered during the last week of
training. The first jab on the spot would
shift the sticking plaster and blood would
flow again.
Then as if to show that nothing could
go right for him, through some mis-
understanding Farr entered the ring 20
minutes before the fight was to begin,
arid had to sit at the ringside watching a
preliminary—in itself an unnerving ex-
perience for a fellow boxing for the
championship.
Farr’s spirit triumphed over all these
circumstances. Ke was calm and cool
when the gong summoned him from his
corner, and he held his own in the open-
ing round. Louis came at him in the
second and stung him with lefts ; but, as
the negro was to learn, to sting him was
only to make him fight harder.
In the third round came the trouble
which everyone had foreseen. Left jabs
landed on the plastered eye-cut and the
blood welled. Jab after jab reached it
in the fourth, the other eye was gashed
and, as one of the narrators put it, Farr's
face became “a crimson smear.”
But he was splendidly game ; and all
his gameness was needed in the fifth,
when, after he had delivered two good
rights to the head, Louis nailed him wirh
both fists and had him propped up
against the ropes. He recovered, and
took the sixth round, mainly by dint of
accurate lefts.
The seventh was another bad round
for him, the worst of the fight. Again
Louis had got him against the ropes and
pelted him with punches, mostly on his
bleeding face. Farr was now groggy,
but he would not go down—never once
was he on the floor, or. Louis either.
The crowd must have thought after
the seventh that the eighth would see the
end. Instead, the Welshman came out of
his corner fighting. Though “blood was
pouring down his face,” he hooked his left
hard to the coon’s head, and got home
with right-hand body punches. The
points of that round were his, and so
were those of the ninth, in which the
negro exhibited a swollen right eye and
jaw ; but Louis had much the better of
the tenth, though his punches did little
more than bring more blood. Both eyes
were now bleeding freely, and Farr’s
judgment of distance must have been
affected, but he would not be denied.
The tenth and eleventh were Farr’s
rounds ; with lefts and rights he drove
Louis to the ropes. Tired as he
{Continued on next page.)


t
"silver edge"
BRAKE LININGl
BRAKE TROUBLES
The majority of brake troubles are due either to poor brake
lining or mal- adjustment.
Unless your brakes are adjusted so that the work is distributed equally
on all wheels then the wear is certain to be rapid and the braking poor.
If your brake material is poor in quality then all the effort and
expense of careful adjustment is wasted, for unless the lining
is consistent throughout then the wear cannot be uniform
and the brakes are soon out of correct adjustment.
Use only “RAYBESTOS” BRAKE LINING-
the quality lining.
RAYBESTOS-BELACO, LTD.,
LONDON, ENG.
Factory Rep.: JOHN ARNOLD,
G.P.O. Box 71, Melbourne. Vic
perftd panorama!
Up, up you go to the summit of Mt.
Wellington, Hobart, and as you hike
ia?* or motor each scene is more entranc-
ing than the last. A memorable trip and
only one of the many holiday enjoyments
A"\% Tasmania offers in an ideal climate.
'm
o
I
: ■■■.
Illustrated literature, details of liner sailings and fares on application
TASMANIAN GOVERNMENT TOURIST BUREAU
MELBOURNE - - - The Block, Collins Street
SyDNEy - - - - 4 Martin Place, opp. G.P.O.
NEWCASTLE 24 Hunter Street
ADELAIDE 12 Pirie Street
PERTH - - - A.M.P. Bldg., William Street
BRISBANE 196 Adelaide Street^
was, he was “riding” the black’s
rights ; time after time when Louis sent
over what was to have been the knock-
out punch, he found himself landing
lightly on a moving target. Only a good
boxer can “ride” punches. Jim Corbett
wrote that he was pretty good at it
himself, but “the unapproac'ned master
of the art” was “the Australian ‘Griffo,’
that wonderful little fellow!”
In the twelfth both were tired, but
Louis had a bit the better of the ex-
changes; and so it was in the thirteenth
and fourteenth.
Back in his corner for the fifteenth,
Farr did not take his full rest. Twenty
seconds before the round opened he was
on his feet waiting to go in. In he
charged, and pounded Louis with left
and right. Long before this the crowd’s
attitude had changed from amused con-
tempt to full-throated admiration, and
the whole 35,000 people cheered the
“foreigner” op. He was dead-weary, but
he smashed Louis to the ropes, found
the jaw with the left hook, jabbed the
left to the head again and again and
jolted the right to the body.
Then the bell brought seconds into the
ring, and policemen, too —to prevent ex-
cited spectators knocking the breath out
of Farr’s bruised body with congratu-
latory thumps.
Judging by the wireless and newspaper
accounts (the wireless description was
very good), the verdict for Louis was
correct, though the crowd hooted, and
even American newspapers objected. It
was disputed neither by Farr nor his
trainer when they spoke to the Welsh
over 3000 miles of heaving ocean. “Hello,
Tonypandy,” said Farr in a nicely
modulated voice—very pleasant to the
ear after an hour of the American
announcer. He was asked what punch
had troubled him most. “He landed so
many on me,” quoth the youth cheer-
fully, “that I can’t remember.”
Farr is sure to fight Louis again, and
the whole British Commonwealth of
Nations will be on the brave fellow next
time.
Footbrawl
“Fitzcray”: The Brownlow medal for
the best and fairest player in the V.F.L.
competition went to Reynolds, of Essen-
don. Every week each field umpire has
to send in an envelope with the names of
the three most deserving players in the
36 he has been supervising for the after-
noon. Reynolds got 27 votes, four more
than the runner-up. He took the award
once before —in 1934.
•jc H*
“Stoush”: Though the V.F.A. is talk-
ing of trying to stop foul play by adopt-
ing the Rugby-Soccer method of send-
ing offenders off the field, the idea sticks
in the gizzards of many followers of the
game in Melbourne. There have been
letters of protest to the press and alter-
native suggestions; of these the most
sensible is provision of a penalty-kick
line within shooting distance of goal, the
side offended against to be given a free
shot at the sticks. That rule has not
stopped foul play in Soccer. The send-
ing-off system has one great advantage:
the troublemakers are removed, and thus
rendered powerless to continue their
methods and, perhaps, provoke retalia-
tion.
* * * *
“Tenakoe”: If Maoriland as a whole
went off its nut over the All-Blacks’
defeat of the Springboks in the Welling-
ton Test, the N.Z. Rugby Union refused
to do its block and be turned a hair’s-
breadth from the path of duty. The
shouting and the tumult had not died
down when forward Mackenzie, of the
triumphant team, received a letter from
the R.U. demanding the return of the
pair of panties handed to him.. The note
added that as they were required for
second Test the R.U. would be glad to
have them back at once. Mackenzie
replied that as the bags were torn to
ribbons in the match he could not com-
ply with the request. He is now hourly
expecting a bill for the ruined garments.
Jfc jjc jJ:
“Zambuk”: When it was announced
that Springbok Du Toit, who suf-
fered a spinal injury in Sydney, had
again taken the field in M.L. doubt as
to the wisdom of such an early resump-
tion was felt on this side. The doubt
was confirmed when Du Toit had to face
the doctors again after his first match in
M.L., and was told he was lucky to be
still on his feet. The X-ray showed that
the broken vertebra had not knitted, and
the verdict was that he must finish with
football on this tour.
* * * *
“Splosh”: The Australian Rugby
Leaguers are shaking hands with them-
selves for deciding to play three matches
in Auckland. They lost two, but the
more important matter of profit salved
that wound. Gate receipts were £3202,
and the Australian share was £1424, plus
a “special grant” of £427.
* * * *
“Outside Right”: South Africa has
made proposals for the tour of Australia
by a Soccer side. It is suggested that
17 players, with a manager and trainer,
come along, and, if all goes well, the
“Gettin' any, Bill ?”
tourists hope to be here in June. South
African Soccer is of a high standard.
For years past first-class amateur and
professional teams from Britain have
toured the Union, and more than once
found the home sides too good for them.
If the tour comes off it is to be hoped
the Australian Soccer heads will them-
selves bear the costs and take the
profits.
Nineteenth Hole
“Divot Digger”: The annual N.S.W.
professional tourney for the Spalding
Purse took place at Concord course and
resulted in Von Nida and V. Richard-
son tying with 145 each for the 36 holes
of stroke play. Well through the after-
noon round the ex-Queenslander looked
home and dried, but Richardson returned
a card of 70 and made it level pegging,
incidentally pouching a fiver offered for
a round of 70.
* * * *
“Thirteen Clubs”: With a team of
Australian amateurs touring Britain next
year, the experience of a South African
side which has just completed < a season
in England is interesting. The Afri-
kanders played 28 matches and won 17,
six being lost and the balance drawn.
Most of the big clubs were met. On
form our players are better than the men
from the Union, and if our strongest
team can be collected a good time should
be had by all.
* * * *
“Sandy Gallop”: There has been some
chopping and changing in the Queens-
land amateur golf team for the Austra-
lian championships in Sydney. Finality
has been reached by the selection of D.
von Nida, brother of Norman of that
label, /who was originally named as an
emergency. Bananaland is also sending
a professional team. The State golf
union coughed up a contribution, and
with the help of club members and sub-
scriptions from players enough brass was
raised to finance a team of four: Brown,
McArthur, Gazzard and Walker.
“Lakeside”: The American amateur
golf championship was won by John
Goodman, who beat the runner-up 2 up
over 36 holes. Goodman is English-born,
and created a sensation some years ago
when he knocked Bobby Jones, then at
the height of his fame, out of the 1929
championship. Goodman was runner-up
in 1932, and won the American open the
following year. He also played in
Walker Cup matches.
* # * *
“Divot Digger”: Announced that the
U.S.A. professional golfers are considering
compelling their members to undergo a
course in golf teaching, the successful ex-
aminees to be granted a diploma. The
reason behind the idea is said to be that
“professionals have never been taught the
fluency of language needed for the ex-
pression of their thoughts.” Without
vouching for professionals—the only one
I was ever familiar with was a kirk
elder, and he never said anything worse
than “shoackin’ baad” by way of criti-
cism—l fancy everyone will agree that
the amateur golfer needs no diploma
course to help him express his golf
thoughts. Indeed, the bigger mug the
golfer the more fluent his flow of ex-
pression.
* * * *
“Carnoustie”; Someone in South
Africa is announced to have put up a
world’s record by going round nine
holes in seven under bogey. There can
be no such thing as a world’s record in
golf, whatever may be the case in other
sports. In every other ball game there
is a certain similarity of conditions. In
golf every course varies in a hundred
particulars from its fellows, and there
are countless factors of weather, wind
and other ever-changing conditions to
face. No Australian golfer, for example,
would say that what might seem a world’s
record on the easy old gentleman’s course
at Rose Bay (N.S.W.) would hold good
for Hoylake or a dozen other British
teasers.
* * * *
“Rus”: Moss Vale (N.S.W.) comes
along with the latest entry for the golf
bedtime story. S. King, the club champion,
sent along a mighty wallop at the 240-
yard fifth hole, and was gratified to see
'his ball finish on the green, though its
direction was to one side of it. Walking
up he found a rabbit in articulo mortis,
the ball having landed on its head. The
player holed out a birdie, but some
credit is due to the rabbit.
Racquet and Bawl
“Top Spin”:
Quist’s opinion that
the Americans, apart
from Budge, were in
no way superior to
the Germans is
borne out by the vic-
tory of Von Cramm
and Henkel in the
American doubles
championship. There
was no fluke about
it either; the Ger-
mans beat Budge
and Mako in three
straight sets. As a
result of the rumpus
in Eastern Asia it is
likely Von C. and
Henkel will be here
earlier than ex-
pected—for the N.
S. Wales champion-
ships, it is hoped.
* *
“Cash Amateur”:
Two outstanding in-
stances of how ama-
teurs employed by
tennis - goods firms
are at the beck and
call of their employers were quoted at a
meeting of the A.L.T.A. Apropos,
the only genuine amateur among Eng-
lish topnotchers, according to an Eng-
lish critic, is Pat Hughes. He is a Lon-
don businessman, and even during the
Wimbledon tourney was at his office
until it was time to go to the courts.
Miscellaneous
“Phut, Phut”: Malcolm Campbell,
having ceased to risk a broken neck put-
ting up speed records on land, has taken
his chance on the water. On Lake Mag-
giore he has just hoisted a new record
for motor-boat speed, covering the mile
run at the rate of 126.32 m.p.h. It was
a two-way run, the first spin taking
28.8 seconds and the second 28.2. Addi-
tional excitement was provided by a
burst waterpipe which flooded the boat.


Instant Ignition
Greater Power
Output
PVR OX
LICENCE BOSCH
SPARK PLUGS
1/3/37
5/- Each.
mks'svlSS&s
fwiifl
m!mm
f&i
S*”4
QrQ/ffl'
r . /,.
•A
C V
rfu
«tv" ,o« *t 0
iO*
TW\S V4*'** V
The Basis of
Perfect Cocktails
(PRE-WAR STRENGTH)
Agents:
John Woods & Co.
Ltd.,
388 Sussex Street,
Sydney.
Distilled by:
Hiram Walker & Sons
Ltd.,
Walkerville, Ontario,
Canada.
Since 1858.
The Cocktail Recipe that won the
prize in a competition open to the
World had as its main ingredient
Canadian Club Whisky.
This Whisky, bottled in bond at pre-
war strength, costs no more than
standard Scotch brands, yet it has
won and retains International repute.
Write for a free Cocktail Recipe
Book to the Agents.
4
Extra Value with V-8 Utilities
All-Steel Construction ... Complete Equipment
Make a thorough investigation of Ford
V-8 Utilities and see the extra value you
get at the delivered price. All-steel-
construction for greater dependability
and longer life. Equipmeht is complete
—— there are no extras to buy. (Note
list of standard equipment at right). In
addition, Ford gives you the power with
the proved economy of the famous V-8
engine . . . safety glass all round . . .
large loading space . . . passenger car
comfort. Ask your local Ford Dealer
to demonstrate the model suited to your
job with your own loads over your own
routes. Easy purchase terms available.
STANDARD EQUIPMENT OF
V-8 UTILITIES INCLUDES:
Front bumper. 4 adjustable double
acting hydraulic shock absorbers. Oil
bath air cleaner. Safety glass all
round (except Van rear door win-
dows)! Ventilating V-type windscreen
and clear-vision ventilation door win-
dows in closed models. Adjustable
seat. Genuine leather trim on seat
and seat back. Enclosed despatch
box. Utilities have ash-tray and cigar
lighter. Coupe models have, in addi-
tion, dual sun visors, dome light, arm
rest, large package tray behind
driver's seat and rear window blind.
BUY FROM YOUR LOCAL FORD DEALER
poro wii vnunii
FORD
MOTOR COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD. (INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA)
F199.24C
Two days later Campbell bumped the
figure up to 129.5 m.p.h. Gar Wood
held the previous best with 124.86 m.p.h.
jj. ;}: sfc
“Spike”: Nothing official has been
done yet, but dispensers of the good oil
have it that other urgent business now
in hand will compel abandonment of the
1940 Tokio Olympiad.
* :fc * *
“The Gaffer”: Paavo Nurmi has now
but one ewe lamb of a record left —his
figures for one hour of 11 miles 1636
yards put up in 1928. The other day an-
other warlock Finn named Salminen
broke three of Nurmi’s standing records,
and has announced his intention of going
after this last one.
v '!•
“Old Ped”: After their Olympic flop,
British athletes showed signs of an
inferiority complex. The victory of the
Oxford-Cambridge team over Combined
American Universities in the U.S.A. re-
stored confidence, and the national tail
is now mastheaded by the world’s record
for the mile run by the Cambridge star
Wooderson. Wooderson’s time was
4min. 6 2-ssec.
* * * *
“The Gaffer”: It is a relief to note
that the N.S.W. 10-mile championship,
run on Kensington racecourse and won
again by Millington, of Newcastle, in
55min. 11 sec., was not called a “cross-
country” one, as so many of these trots
round a lawnlike racecourse are de-
scribed. All the same, it is problemati-
cal whether under such conditions it is
worthy to be regarded as a champion-
ship long-distance running event. The
essence of such competitions is that they
should make the utmost demand on con-
dition and stamina, as well as speed.
* # * *
“Blade”: N.S.W. oarsmen are coming
out of their hibernating season and get-
ting into fettle for the opening regatta
of the season —Mosman’s on the Lane
Cove River on October 2. The big event
at this function is the Boone Memorial
Cup, which carries the championship of
Sydney clubs and gives the winner the
right to row for N.S.W. in the champion
eights at Henley-on-Yarra in November.
Entrants are Mosman 1 and 2, Police,
North Shore, Haberfield and Sydney.
* * *
“Shell”: Jim Stanbury, for long world’s
professional champion sculler, is con-
sidering an unusual invitation —that he
visit Austin, Texas, U.S.A., for the 100th
anniversary of the city in 1939. Stan-
bury rowed on Lake Austin on the
Colorado River in 1893, among his oppo-
nents being the Canadian Jake Gaudaur,
who won the championship from him on
the Thames, only to lose it to George
Towns later. Stanbury’s row in Austin
was in the nature of an exhibition match.
# * * *
“Aigburth”: Yorkshire has won the
English county championship for the
nineteenth time since the official start of
the competition in 1873, though Middle-
sex ran the Tykes to a short head. York-
shire’s success is due to the fact that it
grows its own material and looks after
the professional element as no other
county in England does. A Yorkshire
pro., once well established in the side, is
a made man for life. He is well paid,
sure of a topping benefit and benefits
by a superannuation fund to which the
county contributes heavily. On retire-
ment he can be sure of a decent job, and
his superannuation money forms a fund
from which he draws the interest as an
addition to his earnings.
* * * *
“Aigburth”: These changing times!
Long ago when a bowler in the Oxford-
Cambridge match bowled wides to pre-
vent the opposition following on, he
brought outraged England about his ears.
Press and public assailed him as un-
worthy of Britain, and it was demanded
that his University send him down.
Nowadays these tricks are common aftd
fail to rouse more than a passing in-
terest. Playing against Middlesex,
Holmes, of Surrey, deliberately bowled a
series of wides to bring up 200 and let
fast-bowler Gover have a new ball. It
was quarter of an hour to stumps, and
with only three wickets to fall Middlesex
might have been licked. Allen then
appealed against the light, and though
the sun was shining in a clear sky the
umpires agreed, and the match was
drawn. The umpires’ decision was prob-
ably a protest against the Surrey exhibi-
tion of bad sportsmanship, but the hap-
pening leaves a nasty odor behind.
“Pointer”: The tactics of the Surrey
captain in the closing county match with
Middlesex in bowling wides to bring up
200 and get a new ball for his fast
bowler may lead to a change in Law 4,
which deals with a change of ball at the
umpires’ discretion. There is no actual
law giving the bowler the right to a new
ball, though No. 48 of instructions- to
umpires says that after 200 runs have
been made the fielding side can demand
one. In the rules for Test matches and
Marylebone matches in Australia there
is a similar provision.
* * * *
“Tenth Slip”: Notts has suspended
Larwood for “indiscipline.” He talks of
going over to Lancashire League cricket.
* * * *
“Cottesloe”: Westralians propose a
cricket tour beginning at Adelaide and
ending at Sydney, with further matches
against Victoria and S.A. on the way
back. N.S.W. has passed the buck by
saying that it is S.A.’s job to foster West-
ralian cricket. Distance and costs are
against a scheme that would do much
to improve it —the institution of a
tourney among Westralian and Tas-
manian teams and second elevens of the
Sheffield Ring States.
* * * *
“Tenth Slip”: The Maoriland cricket
team has asked that matches with West-
ralia and Queensland be cut out of its
Australian programme, which is now to
begin against South Australia. Matches
with Victoria and N.S.W. follow, and so
home. In England, though not very
successful on the whole, the Maori-
landers held the cracks to a draw in
two of the three Tests.
* * * *
“Jolimont”: The annual report of the
V.C.A. contains a suggestion that in
future Melbourne should have two Test
matches instead of taking turn about
with Sydney. The plea is based on the
enormous “gates” drawn at the last two
Tests in Melbourne, “gates” which were
greatly augmented by the splendidly-
appointed ground, apart from the cricket,
The profit argument is exactly that on
which N.S.W. recently based a move to
have Brisbane deprived of its solitary
Test.


The Union Trustee Company of Australia, Ltd*
(Incorporated in Victoria.')
2 O’CONNELL STREET - SYDNEY
ACTS AS
Executor, Trustee, Administrator, Attorney, Etc.
(Established 1885.)
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE AND TOWNSVILLE.
Amongst the advantages derived: —-
The Company never dies, never leaves the State, and is always available.
ABSOLUTE SECURITY, EXPERT & ECONOMICAL SERVICE.
Tf.S.W. DIRECTORS: , . .
F. E. Bryant (Chairman); Hon. Sir Henry Braddon K.8.E., M.L.C. (Vice-Chairman),
Sir Graham Waddell, K.8.E.; James Kidd; W. H. Mackay; J. Beresford Giant,
Colin A. Sinclair. Manager: J. G. H. Shipway.
(WRITE OR CALL FOR FREE EXPLANATORY BOOKLET.)
SHADOW
SHOWS
“The Slave Ship.”
YANKEE SLAVER .. Warner Baxter
HIS WIFE Elizabeth Allen
FIRST MATE Wallace Beery
CABIN-BOY Mickey Rooney
So long as this vigorous sea story is
marching along it provides first-class en-
tertainment. The last of the Yankee
slavers, reformed by marriage to a good
girl, is shanghaied by his own crew and
taken off to Africa for another load of
contraband humanity. He recaptures the
ship with his wife’s aid, and navigates it
to St. Helena, where he releases the
slaves. Those of the mutineers who are
not shot by the captain are hanged, all
save the ship’s boy, who remains loyal to
his master. The slaver is acquitted by a
sympathetic court-martial and becomes
a prosperous planter in Jamaica.
The exciting events on shipboard,
scenes in sailors’ taverns and on the
waterfront at Salem are intelligently and
convincingly presented, with plenty of
humor, provided by Beery, Rooney and
subsidiary characters. The sequences
dealing with the captain’s courtship—
tongue-tied tar and bashful village
maiden —are too-long-drawn-out. Neither
Mr. Baxter nor Miss Allen is equipped
to make these tentative dallyings any-
thing but embarrassing to the audience.
Previewed at Fox Theatrette, Sydney.
“Devil’s Playground.”
NAVY BOYS .. Richard Dix, Chester
Morris
GOLD-DIGGER .... Dolores Del Rio
Once this film get’s under way, after
a slow start, a fair pace is maintained.
Its success is entirely dependent on sus-
pense during rescue work on a sunken
submarine. The excitement as a diver
comes down over 300 ft. with an air-line
after the oxygen supply has petered out
in the doomed vessel has been well
handled, and an interesting insight is
given into modern rescue methods.
Two stout pals, one the champion deep-
sea diver of the navy, the other a petty
officer, are separated when the latter
is transferred to submarine duty and the
other sent as instructor to the naval
diving school. Being a simple soul, and
lonely, the latter is inveigled into mar-
riage with a glib-tongued siren from a
night club. But she soon shows her pro-
miscuous tendencies, and immediately
he is called away on an. urgent work
she ensnares the homecoming pal, who
is unaware of her identity. In the re-
sultant showdown she cleverly fools her
husband and denounces the pal as a
would-be home-wrecker.
All this is to pile on the agony when
the pal goes down in a submarine that
hits a derelict. At first the diver is cal-
lously willing to let his quondam cobber
die, but on the wife’s hysterical confes-
sion he dashes to the rescue.
Richard Dix, now trading solely on his
undershot jaw, is just fair in the he-man
stuff so long as he remains silent, but
as a middle-aged lover he is unconvinc-
ing. Chester Morris is aggressively com-
petent, and Dolores Del Rio does the
snaky stuff capably. At Sydney Capitol.
“Talent Scout.”
THE SCOUT Donald Woods
HIS “DISCOVERY” .. Jeanne Madden
CROONING RIVAL .. Fred Lawrence
A talent scout is a fellow employed
by a film studio to snoop around cabarets
with his ear cocked for any likely females
who agonise soulfully into a “mike.” His
job is then to pick the one whose voice
most closely approximates a crow’s or a
cow’s and engage her to star in the
next film, forcing upon her a salary ten-
fold more than she expects and 10,000
times more than she’s worth.
At least, that is the impression gained
from this fatuous Warner Bros. film. As
it would have cut the running time by
75 p.c. to have had the grateful goil
throw herself into the scout’s arms after
she signs on the dotted line, a rival is
yanked in. And —hold your horses!
yes, it’s another yawper, none other than
the Adonis who is to howl opposite her.
So the inevitable triangle is formed,
which becomes a quadrangle by the in-
troduction of —hang on to your seats!
yes, still another female crooner, who
lurvs the handsome lad with the ducoed
hair. Result, a polite brawl. But the
scout does his good deed for the day
by nobly renouncing all claims to the
lady’s affection and altruistically wang-
ling a reconciliation between the chief
tonic-sol-fa murderers.
Donald Woods does his best with the
awful material and the bunch of crooners
their worst with three sets of vocal
chords which appear to have knots tied
in them. At Sydney Capitol.
“The Man in Blue.”
KINDLY POLICE SERGEANT,
Edward Ellis
HIS ADOPTED SON ~ Robert Wilcox
GIRL Nan Grey
SMOOTH-SPOKEN CROOK,
Ralph Morgan
A rather slow-moving drama in which
a police-sergeant adopts the son of a
criminal he had to shoot in the course
of his duty. The lad gets a job in a bank
where his adopted dad, retired from the
force, is chief guard. Wrongfully
accused of theft, the boy joins a gang and
gets away with 100,000 smackers, which
he plants, then takes the rap and goes to
gaol. Let out on parole, merely that he
may lead the cops to the plant, he is
saved by his adopted father, and thence-
“THE SLAVE SHIP.”
Warner Baxter as the slaver who re-
formed; Wallace Beery as the villainous
mate; Mickey Rooney as the ship’s boy.
Fig. 4 is a slave-trader.
forward resolves to live a righteous and
upright life. Ellis is as sound as ever ;
Wilcox makes a good fist of a poor part,
and Ralph Morgan gives good support.
At Sydney Lyric.
STAGE SHOWS.
“La Vie Paree.”
This snappy and sparkling revue, the
second edition of the Marcus Show at
Sydney Royal, owes little to the gay city
on the Seine, unless it be in the matter
of sartorial scantiness attributed to the
Folies Bergeres. The chief impression
gained is of acres of torso, fathoms of
shapely legs and an interesting assort-
ment of navels, garnished with costumes
that range from a few wispy straps to
gorgeous polychromatic creations. The
mounting is of a compatible lavishness,
and—a. pleasing feature —the show moves
speedily, with never a second wasted. On
the debit side are vocal mediocrity, a
couple of flogged-to-death sketches and
some hoary gags.
Burlesque supplies the happiest phases.
There is some riotous comedy (an un-
imaginative cop is alleged to have frowned
upon it) when Harold Boyd and his Jig-
saws perform a fan dance. Fully clothed,
and using newspapers in place of fans,
their turn is one of the highlights of the
show. Similarly George Schreck gets a
full quota of laughs as an awkward
premiere danse use. Hillbilly Bobby
Dyer relies more on personality than
musical accomplishment in putting a
good number over.
The revue naturally is strongest on the
spectacular side, and the scenas are
varied and original. One of the best is
the “Vineyard of Girls,” a)
lovely Golden Wine tableau in which
Ha Cha San, a mere gilt-coating between
her and nudity, performs a graceful
statuesque dance. “Rain in Manhattan
has as its background Times-square, with
a heavy shower pelting down on the
entire co. An Eastern slave-market scene
gives the sinuous Sharon de Vries scope
for her dancing talent, and in the Kiss
of Death” a triangular contest with
naked swords, culminating in a thrust
which appears to transfix one of the
swordsmen, fully tests the light-footed-
ness of the Clymas. Final scene is a
Californian orange grove with illumi-
nated fruit.
»]• 4*
“Balalaika.”
With “Balalaika,” which opened at
Melb. His Majesty’s on Saturday night,
the theatre has come into its own again.
Here is a piece that calls for acting
and gets it. Minor roles are not entrusted
to novices. The veteran Gaston Mervale
as a Russian general has not much to
say, but makes up for that by the way
he says it. This show is good entertain-
ment, something that has been missing
from the legitimate theatre for many a
long day. It is billed as a musical play,
but there is a strong vein of drama run-
ning through it. The treatment is
modem. Old traditional climaxes have
been swept aside. In one scene every-
thing is prepared for the entrance of the
Russian Emperor, members of the Im-
perial ballet have dropped into curtsy
position, all heads are bowed in homage
—and what happens? The curtain comes
down without the Emperor. The show
takes many unexpected twists and turns.
Robert Halliday, the new leading man,
can sing and act. He is a manly
sort of fellow, with lots of mag-
netism. Margret Adams does not sing
as well as she looks, but she fills the bill.
Her beauty is of the ethereal order, and
she certainly lives up to the word “en-
chanting” which was bestowed upon her
by the playwright. However, it was Mar-
jorie Gordon, the petite comedienne, who
captured the audience on Saturday night.
A thumbnail sketch of a pampered
American woman who imagines that
money will buy everything, was played
admirably by Valerie Walsh. Dancing
is one of the special features of this
show, but none was equal to the miming
demanded in an impersonation of the
Russian Ballet. The music is tuneful,
and many lilting melodies run through
the theme, but there are times when the
dancers move to the harmony and dis-
cords of modern music—a remarkable
show in every way.
•F 4? 4"
Rubinstein’s Sydney Debut.
Vigor and virility to the nth degree
were the characteristics of the Schnee-
voigt-Rubinstein concert at Sydney Town
Hall. As soloist in the Brahms B Flat
Concerto, the Polish pianist played with
a self-assurance that gave an impression
of spontaneity, even of carelessness, to
the rollicking and bravura passages with
which the work abounds; yet in the
andante he was all sweetness and light.
The orchestra on many occasions effaced
itself out of sight, not having gauged,
apparently, the tremendous volume of
tone Rubinstein can evoke from key-
board and pedals. He is by far the
most vigorous and masculine pianist Syd-
ney has heard in recent years. In re-
sponse to an ovation, he played as en-
cores a well-known Chopin waltz —at
least, the audience thought they knew it
well till they heard Rubinstein play it.
This was no languishing consumptive
sentimentally sighing, but an embittered
patriot, capable of saying harsh, cruel
things.
But what bowled the audience com-
pletely over was De Falla’s “Ritual Fire
Dance,” relentless in its rhythm, as son-
orous as the clanging of hammers on
anvils, and sweeping on and on to a
colossal climax of barbaric uproar.
The A.B.C. for once in a way was
generous to its listeners and
broadcast the whole pro-
gramme. '
On Saturday night, at the
Con. Hall, the pianist showed
his paces in a diversity of
musical styles. In the Busoni
transcription of Bach’s C
Major Toccata, Adagio and
Fugue, Rubinstein remem-
bered he was playing organ
music, and made it so by
good pedalling, producing a
magnificent tone. It was as
fine Bach-playing as has been
heard since Percy Grainger
left these shores. Schu-
mann’s “Etudes Sym-
phoniques” provided a
demonstration of technique-
mastery, nothing more, for the Polish
pianist evidently cares not for German
sentiment.
Outstanding was the commonsense,
vigorous interpretation of three Debussy
numbers —“Prelude,” “Hommage au
Rameau” and “Minstrels” —which cast
a new and favorable light on the French-
man’s powers as a composer. But the
highlight of the evening was the Chopin
group, the barcarolle, two etudes and a
nocturne, leading up to a really splendid
and rousing performance of the A Flat
Polonaise. That subdued thunder of
rippling left-hand octaves has never
sounded more impressive. For encores
there were the De Falla “Fire Dance,
the Scriabine left-hand study, and Liszt s
best-known “Liebestraum,” the last with
its arpeggio figures quite distinct, as
they should be, not “atmosphered” out of
the picture as by Moiseiwitsch.
•F *F
Melbourne Symphony Orchestra.
Following after the veteran Schnee-
voigt, the dapper Joseph Post looked
young for the job of controlling the
forces of the Melbourne Symphony
Orchestra when he stepped on to the
rostrum at the Town Hall on Satur-
day. He was obviously not com-
pletely at home with his audience, but
he was sufficiently at home with
his music and his orchestra to steer them
with precision through a programme
that included the “Titus” overture ot
Mozart, the Brahms “Variations on a
Theme by Haydn,” Elgar’s ’Cello Con-
certo in E Minor and the Symphony No.
2 in B Minor of Borodine. This was
enough for a single evening, and the
“Norfolk Rhapsody” of Vaughan Wil-
liams and the “Shepherd’s Fennel Dance
of Balfour Gardiner could have been
left for another occasion. The last-
named would not have been missed had
it been left out altogether, for it is a
trifle too faithful to the shrill tweedle-
dee of the boy fiddler which was supposed
to be its subject-matter.
The event of the evening was the
Elgar Concerto, which is remarkable for
a delicious slow movement and for the
fact that the soloist is in almost con-
tinuous employment from the start to
the finish. As the soloist was Kurtz
there were no complaints on that score,
for the ’cellist surpassed even his dis-
tinguished performance of a few even-
ings previously.
In the Brahms Variations the con-
ductor appeared to be a trifle hurried, as
if he were keeping to a schedule with
the radio listeners, who were let in on
the first part of the programme by the
generosity of the A.8.C., but the Boro-
dine Symphony got its full measure ot


The Widest . . . the Newest in
GIANT REDWOODS, largest and oldest of living things,
tower on California’s mountain slopes. Two huge
bridges at San Francisco are the newest engineering tri-
umphs. Boulder Dam creates a great lake where once
was only desert. The lights of Hollywood flash across
the trails of old heroic padres. Dinosaur fossils are
found in Utah. Age dwells in Carlsbad’s sub-world Cav-
erns ... Youth in dynamic, turreted New York!
The glory of the past, the vision of the future ... linked
by a network of railways reaching every farflung corner
of the land! Railways that unite speed and safety, bring
luxury to travel... that cross the continent in 75 hours
or less with but one change of cars, making their own
air-conditioned climate as they go ... that offer the rest-
ful comfort of Pullman sleepers, the social facilities of
smart club cars, the epicurean enjoyment of a splendid
cuisine at moderate cost, and the satisfaction of atten-
tive and efficient service. Liberal stopover privileges and
choice of routes widen your range of discovery.
A fitting prologue is travel to America along the fasci-
nating island-dotted route of the Matson-Oceanic liners
Mariposa and Monterey ... 18 days of shipboard luxury
and glamour, interwoven with romantic ports-of-call—
New Zealand, Fiji, Samoa and Hawaii. A fast Atlantic
crossing, with a w'ide choice of liners, completes the
short, direct and interest-filled journey to Old England!
Every detail of this incomparable and elastic route is
described in our free illustrated booklet, “England
Across America”. . . yours upon request.
AMERICAN RAILWAYS TRAVEL AND INFORMATION BUREAU
(Incorporated in U.S.A. Limited Liability)
12 Bridge Street Sydney Phone B-7981-3
care and attention, and the background
of the thumping drum effects was
cleverly manipulated along with the pas-
sionate initial theme for strings and all
the Oriental decorations which the com-
poser lavished on his opus in an en-
deavor to depict the carousals of the
mighty men of Russia.
•I* »I*
’Cellist Kurtz in Melbourne.
Edmund Kurtz sat behind his ’cello at
the Assembly Hall, with Marshall
Sumner at the piano, one night last week
in Melbourne, and gratified a not over-
crowded house with some excellent play-
ing, which has become more sober and
restrained since his sojourn in America.
The two-centuries-old sonata by Tessa-
rini was more in his mood than the
Rachmaninoff sonata, though the latter
was a greater testimonial to his techni-
cal proficiency. Bach, Mendelssohn,
Debussy and Granados figured on the
second half of the programme in full
color.
* -I- * *
“The Rivals.”
Another of Sheridan’s comedies, “The
Rivals,” opened at the Melbourne King’s
on Saturday night. The cast is well
chosen, staging is as thorough as in
most Gregan McMahon productions, and
Mrs. Malaprop is admirably played by
Phoebe Marks.
Field Fisher, as the red-faced and bluff
Sir Anthony Absolute, gives a finished
characterisation of the “egad” type of the
Sheridan period. Joan Burke is the wilful
Lydia Languish, and Joan Watt the Julia
who suffers the soulfulness of Faulkland
(Keith Campbell). Both girls fill the bill
well, while R. M. Bennett, as the mas-
querading Capt. Absolute, fills his uni-
form well enough to be worthy of Lydia’s
coquettish eye. Eunice Percy plays the
part of the artful and mercenary maid,
Lucy, and Lance Nicholls, even to a sus-
tained brogue, makes a good Sir Lucius
O’Trigger.
*l* "I*
Adelaide Shows.
The 15-night show of “Viktoria and
Her Hussar” at Adelaide Royal realised
£l2OO for charities. Alan Chapman, the
producer, announces a “Vagabond King”
revival for November. After the recent
show, John Dempster, a leading musician,
predicts a future for Felicia Francis as
“another Carrie Moore.”
CURRENT ARTBURSTS.
Society of Artists’ Show.
A fairly high standard is maintained
throughout this exhibition, which is at
the Education Department’s Gallery, Syd-
ney, and the society’s best-known mem-
bers have, as ever, given the show strong
support. Hans Heysen, who is finding
more to interest him in the mountains
than in the bush these days, shows pink
hills from the Brachina Gorge and purple
peaks from the Flinders Range. His
water-color technique is as sound as
ever. Lionel Lindsay is represented by
etchings and by water-color-and-charcoal
sketches from Spain, both styles very
characteristic and effective. One of the
water-colors goes to the N.S.W. Gallery.
S. Ure Smith’s careful drawings of the
Sydney scene are again a feature. He
manages to suggest the whole gamut of
waterside color by merely tinting a pen-
cilled outline. Most successful of Ken-
neth Macqueen’s experiments in curves
and rhythm is “Entering Port,” a clever
impression of the waves that march from
a steamer’s bow. His “Harbor-master’s
Yard” is filled with buoys that look as
dainty and clean as new toy balloons.
John Eldershaw, of Hobart, sends a few
richly-hued water-colors. Maud Sher-
wood is represented, but not very im-
pressively.
In oils the newest features are Norman
Lindsay’s demonstration in “Reclining
Figure” and “Adventure Island” that he
can paint nudes as effectively in this
medium as in water-color, and the unique
paintings of Lloyd Rees, who carries into
his studies with brush and palette the
methods of analysis that made his pencil-
drawings so interesting, and achieves a
sort of realism that is all his own.
Elioth Gruner has been busy and
shows quite a crop of quiet landscapes.
Howard Ashton, never a very prolific
exhibitor, evidently concentrates on
quality. His three landscapes, widely
differing in style and mood, are the best-
painted in the show. Douglas Dundas
has caught the eye of the N.S.W. Gallery
Trustees with “A Macquarie-street In-
terior,” a nice study in values, J. Muir
Auld presents several of his Corot-ish
landscapes, Dattilo Rubbo shows some
sound portraits—“ Mile. Alice” goes to
the N.S.W. Gallery—Max Meldrum is
represented by an interior, a landscape
and a flower-piece, and Longstaff, Nor-
man Carter, Mary Edwards, Fred Leist
and Arthur Murch are exhibitors, but
not to any large or notable extent.
The modernists —Roland Wakelin,
Arnold Shore, John D. Moore and
George Bell—indulge their views in their
usual forthright manner; and H. Badham,
who paints better every year, gets very
near complete success in “Paint and
Morning Tea.”
A small collection of “British Contem-
porary Water-colors” features the “Back-
to-Millicent-aged-five” school, as exem-
plified by such eccentrics as the Nashes,
Ravilious, David Jones and Jacob
Einstein.
•!# »T« »£•
Streeton’s Melbourne Show.
Faithful landscapes dominate the
Arthur Streeton exhibition at Melbourne
Athenaeum; some of them have been
shown before, but none of them yields an
atom of topographical reality to the in-
fluences of other schools of painting. Ex-
hibits include English, Venetian and
Australian studies.
The familiar Streeton feeling for color
and the usual good draughtsmanship
characterise the show. “Yorkshire Farm-
house,” in wet greens, “Malham Cove,”
with grass-greens and the chalky-white-
ness of English cliffs above a blue sea,
or,ri „ / C , T.u > w
and Winter Evening (St. John s Wood)
re representative of his good English
studies. Italian work includes Full
Moon, Venice, the largest and most
highly-priced canvas, which silhouettes
the white domes and pinnacles of St.
Mark s against the dark night sky. The
Australian scene is given in faithful
mountain and sea views. Ocean Blue,
showing Lome surf beyond a straggling
gum, and a Morning s Impression,” a
sweeping look across South Yarra parks
towards Melbourne city, are excellent ex-
amples ol the artist at his best.
“French Gun,” an earlier water-color
which supplements the main show, re-
veals all the Streeton ability in that
medium as well as his sense of balanced
design.
Model Aeroplane Show,
A J Anthony Horderns’, Sydney, the
Model Flying Club and Model Aero-
P> an = AKOciation have combined to show
? i , 2£ nbers in the
S' °L"t° d * 1 P lanes - There are over
200 models on view, ranging from two
inches to seven feet ’ in 4 e f age length .
The workmanship is of a surprisingly
high sta ndard, and the finish of a great
many of the exhibits is equal to any _
thing that could be produced by profes-
sionals. A very large proportion of this
clever work was done by young boys,
who, judging by the keenness and intel-
ligence they have put into the various
knotty problems presented by their
models, are thoroughly air-minded. Aus-
tralia, which will need increasing
numbers of aero engineers and mechanics
in the days to come, may have reason to
call the Flying Club and the Model
Association blessed in some future period
of emergency.


M ak
+ h e
Siehwww
Your «°“ e
wh i' ’
S Y 0
N EY
You’ll enjoy a stay at the Went-
worth. Whether your trip be busi-
ness or social, the Wentworth is
ideal. Close to business and social
centres, the Wentworth is yet noted
for its restful comfort, its service
and cuisine. Wire or write for
reservations.
WENTWORTH
HOTEL
'PHONE 8W1361 (10 lines)
CD. MACLURCAN MN6. DIRECTOR
J. S. LEVY, Manager.
Put Your Savings
To Work —To-day!
ygR SECURfry
DO you know that FIRST AUSTRALIAN UNIT
TRUST CERTIFICATES enable you to invest sums
of about £25 and upwards in first-class industrials?
Every £ is spread over the shares of 20 famous Australian
Companies, and is safeguarded by Custodian Trustees
(Union Insurance Society of Canton, Ltd.)* Yield
approx. 5 % per annum.
Write for Booklet No. 1 to the Managers:
AUSTRALIAN FIXED TRUSTS PTY., LTD.,
8-14 Bond Street, Sydney.
Box 4028 V.V., G.r.O.
Telephone: 85294.
/[NHALANI\'
prevents colds from
NIGHT CHILLS
A drop of Vapex on your
pillow at night is wonder*
fully effective in preventing
colds. The powerful germi-
cidal vapour is breathed
while you sleep and keeps
the nose and throat free
from infection.
Use Vapex whenever you
feel a cold beginning. A
drop on your handkerchief,
breathed frequently, quickly
clears the head and destroys
the germs which would
otherwise increase rapidly
to your discomfort. You
can feel it doing you good.
Of all Chemists
MADE IN ENGLAND BV
THOMAS KERFOOT & CO. LTD
and sold throughout the world
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
The private views of the Society of
Artists, like those of the Royal Academy,
are becoming the fashionable function of
the show. So many, nevertheless, now
crowd to them that they are just as public
as the opening. Last Friday afternoon
at the Education Galleries, the intelli-
gentsia and the intelligent,, women who
were well-dressed or well-informed, and
sometimes both, clustered thick about the
lovely over-the-hills-and-far-away atmo-
sphere of the Gruner canvases. The
sleek and plump ladies of Norman Lind-
say were a nasty crack to any dieted-to-
emaciation female of the species.
Dorothea Mackellar went to market
early and bought a white cow and a
black swan. It sounds like a poets’ party.
Honors for the most distinctive hat go
to Mrs. Alan Potter. It was of shirred
black velvet. Its brim was fan-shaped,
and its crown consisted of bands of the
shirred velvet. Another nice touch was
the daffodils in the black fur of her coar.
With her was Mrs. Ernest Wilshire, up
from Melbourne. Another Melbournite
up for the show was former head of our
National Gallery, Jimmy MacDonald.
Mrs. Reg Fowler arrived from Kempsey.
John Lane Mullins held court, and Syd-
ney Ure Smith was blandness tailored in
grey. Judge Backhouse was there. Black
was almost a uniform with the women,
but artist Mary Edwards broke away and
swung in, her caped frock terra-cotta in
tone. Mrs. Rodney Dangar, Joan Marks
and Theo Cowan were among the noted.
After 20 minutes’ discourse Federal
Attorney-General Menzies got down to
the job of declaring the Society of
Artists’ show open. There were loud-
speakers in the outer gallery, so that even
if you went late you still had to listen to
the speeches. When Mr. Menzies had
referred to himself for about the
eighteenth time as a layman the listener
began to agree with the art student who
remarked “Why doesn’t he come to the
omelet?” However, the end came, and
John Lane Mullins decorated Lionel
Lindsay with the S.O.A. medal for the
year, and everybody was free to gaze on
the pictures. But, of course, it was im-
possible to get more than a glimpse, and
this writer never once got within the third
line in front of Dattilo Rubbo’s “Mile.
Alice,” which was one of the afternoon’s
most admired. Two tall girls roaming
about the gallery were Loma Lautour and
Deetje Andriesse. Loma has some nice
modelling on display. The Moore Cos-
graves were a good-looking couple, and
pretty Mrs. Norman Macleod was, as
usual, one of the best dressed. Her gay
little suit was of thick silk in candy
stripes. The sleeves of the short coat were
shirred on the shoulders, the waist was
finished with a knotted sash. Julian
Ashton was one of the much-greeted. Joe
Wolinski did the rounds with Mrs. Louis
Stone and Miss Bertie. Isabel Mac-
kenzie, who had captured a glowing bit
of Castle Hill for the walls, was con-
gratulated by the National Gallery
Ashtons.
The pretty ballroom of the Coronation
Bridge Club was bright with spring
flowers when Kathleen Morgan O’Neill
had her birthday dance last week. The
club is a venture of sister Mrs. Bruce
Moore, who, herself one of the guests,
was radiant in rose-shaded chiffons.
Kathleen’s chiffons, which were long and
flowing, were of palest lilac.
The P.E.N. Club dinner to Helen
Simpson brought quite a rc 11-up to the
Forum Club. The novelist, looking dis-
tinguished and much taller and slimmer
in a trailing black evening frock, had
arrived without her snuffbox. This was
a disappointment to many, who, round
about 10 o’clock, could contain their
curiosity no longer, and asked naively
“wouldn’t Miss Simpson please take
snuff, just to let them see?” However,
those present learned that for a snuff-
taker to use a white handkerchief was
to put oneself as far on the social outer
as drinking the finger-bowl water. The
correct thing is a bandanna or colored
hanky.
The news that secretary Ruth Bedford
is returning on a freighter from U.S.A.,
where she has been visiting the Adamses,
of the New York “Times,” was received
with applause. Ruth, who left over a year
ago to attend a P.E.N. conference in Buenos
Ayres, seems since then to have completed
a personal survey of the Americas, North
and South. Dora Payter, who edits the
“Burns-Philp Magazine,” has acted as
her locum. Lord Wakehurst is the latest
to join the club, but it is doubtful if he
can fit in a dinner date this side of
Christmas. However, he’s a fully-paid-
up member. Mrs. Walter Higgins, up
from Wagga, was one of the night’s
guests. Mrs. Higgins is the appointed
representative of the British Drama
League for the Riverina. , Her book of
botany told as stories for children comes
out next month.
This is the latest Freeman photograph
of the popular wife of General Charles
Rosenthal, who goes as Administrator to
Norfolk Island.
Long ago, when there was a world
war, General Rosenthal commanded the
2nd Division in France. When he came
back to Sydney he formed the Second
Division of the A.M.F., whose last week’s
ball was in the nature of a “farewell,
happy days!” to the General and his lady.
They go off, he to administer Norfolk
Island, she to be as kindly and gentle
a hostess there as Sydney already knows
her. This was a very intimate, matey
party, with everybody knowing every-
body else, or knowing their fathers or
their uncles. Dawn Jackson, whose
colonel father was a Second Divisioner
before his move to Victoria, made the
journey up from Melbourne to come to
the dance.
By eight-thirty David Jones’s ballroom
looked as dashing as a colored print from
the ’eighties. Scarlet uniforms flashed
and decorations glittered. Flowers
gleamed in shoulder posies and in knots
for the hair. Pretty girls were there by
the dozen, many of them daughters of
these France and Flanders warriors Jean,
daughter of General Macxay, one of
them. She wore her brown hair in a
long straight bob like a mediaeval page s,
and her frock was of palest-pink satin.
Her flowers were irises, and her sash
held this flower’s purple blues.
Brigadier-General Mackay, now Divi-
sional Commander, supported by his wife,
entertained the official guests. Colonel
and Mrs. Fewtrell helped keep things
cheery at the top table. A frock of cloth
of gold offset with deep-red roses was
Mrs. Mackay’s choice, and the Rosen-
thal lady had a silver dress, a design of
pink roses lightly stencilled on it. With it
she wore a cape of the same material bor-
dered with fur. A special word goes to
Mrs. R. F. A. McDonald for her pic-
turesque appearancfe in sky-after-rain-
blue taffetas. This was shirred from
shoulder to hip, whence it spread in
fullness. Her short cape was three-
tiered, each tier just showing a rim of
cloud-pink lining. Mrs. Fewtrell was a
real daughter of the regiment and sported
its colors, her ivory satin frock having
shoulder drapes of bright red which fell
in long ends to the floor.
At the end of this week Dulcie Hol-
land goes off to Europe to continue her
musical studies. She is keenly interested
in composition, and already has had a
sonata and a suite for strings performed
over A.B.C. stations. She studied piano
with Frank Hutchens and composition
with Roy Agnew. Miss Holland leaves
in the Otranto on the 11th. Peter Pan
photograph.
The chairs were again packed in tight
rows for last week’s symphony concert.
With Arthur Rubinstein at the piano and
Schneevoigt leading the orchestra the
programme sounded full of promise, and
quite justified itself. The pianist, wear-
ing all the decorations he has garnered
from different nations, with his dark head,
brilliant eyes and dynamic hands, was a
sure favorite from the start of the
Brahms concerto. The place was packed
to the ceiling, and the women were
curled and flowered and very sleekly
dressed. The Dixsons from Castle Hill
were there; so were the Comedy Har-
monists and their wives. Mrs. Douglas
Levy wore a coat of many colors. Con-
stance Pickworth, recovering from a long
illness, was wrapped in a short ermine
coat. Ruby Adams came in black velvet
and rich furs. Mrs. Claude Plowman’s
frock and coat had a dull metal finish.
Mrs. Julian Caro enjoyed every note.
Mrs. Harold Bott was in burgundy
crepes.
Pretty Fay Compton with the heart-
shaped face is on her way to Australia.
She comes straight from playing in Mil-
ton’s “Comus” at the Open Air Theatre
in Regent’s Park. In this the beauty
and fluid quality of her voice were com-
mented on by all the critics. She opens
her Australian season with “Victoria
Regina.” Noel Coward’s “To-night at
8.30” and Ivor Novello’s “Proscenium”
are some of the new plays she is bring-
ing to us. Her brother is the novelist
Compton Mackenzie. Her father was the
famous Edward Compton, her mother a
successful actress, Virginia Bateman.
Fay’s hair is bronze gold, so deep blues
and greens appear again and again in the
private and the stage wardrobe she is
bringing to Australia.
Among last Saturday’s travellers for
England were the Frank Hambridge
couple. In London they will join daugh-
ter Marjorie and son Rhodes, who is
now walking St. George’s Hospital. The
last letter the Hambridges had from Mar-
jorie before they sailed told of a colorful
day she had spent in Colombo with some
Cingalese friends. The lady of the Cey-
lon household owns one of the largest
graphite mines in the world. Her son is
a. clever young doctor who studied at
Cambridge with Rhodes Hambridge. She
took Marjorie for a drive into the coun-
try, and then in the afternoon they were
rowed across a wide river to an island
which is one of the family’s many estates.
Here in a cool pavilion above the river
they had tea. Everyone in the group
spoke perfect English.
Never has the Town Hall stage been
treated in such a hearty, slap-on-the-back
fashion as by the Comedy Harmonists.
How Marguerites and Mimis of the past,
not to speak of Fausts and Don
Giovannis, must have peered with amaze-
ment when they saw these rollickers treat-
ing Town Hall audiences with such
familiarity. The' operatic folk looked
upon a Town Hall appearance as a
serious affair. The throat had to be
rested, to be gargled. Back stage the
atmosphere had to be one of soothing
calm. “A Persian Garden” used to find
itself in Town Hall concert programmes.
The Comedy Harmonists bring us “A
Persian Market,” which reproduces
exactly the sounds on the waterfront of
Port Said. But the Harmonists them-
selves like quiet. They and their wives
have moved, therefore, from Darling-
hurst to Neutral Bay.
The Musical Association’s party to
Arthur Rubinstein was the success of
Friday afternoon. Hordes of aesthetic,
athletic and automatic piano-players were
rushed per lift up to the reception-room
of the Carlton until, finally, president
Sverjensky had to apologise for running
short of chairs. The pianist was in great
form, and congratulated Sydney on its
Musical Association. Nothing like it
could be found overseas. There a tea-
party of musicians would mean more
discord than harmony. He’s going to
write to all his friends in Europe on the
subject of the amiable Australian artist.
The pianist and his A.B.C. escort were
met in the hotel vestibule by the associa-
tion president and by Mrs. Hope Gib-
son and Mrs. Harold Bott. Both ladies
were in navy ensembles. Navy seemed
the popular wear. Mrs. Norman Mac-
leod wore it; so did Mrs. Sterling Levis,
The black suit and the silver fox fur
showed signs of breaking partnership.
Not once were the two observed to-
gether. Organist Alice Bryant and her
sister were there, and Arthur had a
special word for Marjorie Hesse, young-
est pianist on the Con. staff. Miriam
Hyde wore a chocolate-brown dress and
toque. This had an unusual border of
brown-and-blue cord. Mrs. Talbot, Laur-
ence Godfrey Smith, Faunce Allman,
Dr. Keith Barry and Con. director Bain-
ton were among the 270 who were
wedged in the room or milled around
the doorways.


THE FOOD
BEVERAGE
MOST EASILY
DICESTED &
ASSIMILATED
uou need the special
propertied of
OVALTIN E'
TTEALTH . . . strength . . . vigour . . . depend almost
entirely upon the food you eat. It is essential therefore
that your daily dietary should provide all the health-giving
properties your body needs.
That is why you need “Ovaltine”. This complete and perfect
tonic food beverage presents, in the most easily digestible
form, every nutritive element required for creating abundant
energy and vitality and for building up body, brain and
nerves to the highest possible level of efficiency.
“Ovaltine” owes its special properties to the nature and ex-
cellence of its ingredients—malt, milk and eggs—and to
highly scientific methods of manufacture which cannot be
used by others. Remember, also, that there are very import-
ant differences between “Ovaltine” and imitations. There is
only one “Ovaltine”—there is nothing “just as good”. Reject
substitutes.
TRIAL SAMPLE.—A generous trial sample, sufficient to make four
cupsful, will be sent on receipt of 3d. in stamps, to cover cost of
packing and postage. See address below.
PRICES: 1/9, 2/10, 5/-. All Chemists and Stores.
OVALTINE'
A. WANDER, LIMITED, 1 YORK STREET NORTH, SYDNEY.
Listen-in to the Ovaltiney Concert Party broadcast from
Stations 2GB Sydney, 3DB and 3LK Melbourne, 4BK and 4AK
Brisbane, SAD, SPI and SMU Adelaide, 6IX and 6WB Perth,
at 5.30 p.m. every Sunday.
034.18.37
T T rc.»'
w
* ,VvV I .AC'\avaV
3?
■
i*
%
>
1
>
fcil
»\ V '\
\ , »
<°Vo <v<vor>-
v^ e (O' ‘v f*V e
I t c o« e l 0 wO^
'<Vl f> V ’ 0 f,e-
*tV, JVvV ct fe 6 c -AN V gj£V^
\>v^vvn*
'2g>‘
©THE EVER READY CO. (Aust.) LTD., Sydney
T 2
A LL Brisbane records
** shattered by Cine-
sound’s spectacular
outdoor production
“ Tall Timbers.”
World Premiere sees scenes of
unprecedented public enthusiasm.
The most sensational Australian
picture made to date —and it’s
coming soon to thrill Sydney at
Greater Union Theatres.
UNION THEATRES
1
Watch for it!
l With Shirley Ann
RICHARDS
★
FRANK LEIGHTON
FRANK HARVEY
HARVEY ADAMS
CAMPBELL COPELIN
and JOE VALLI
m
mm.
i/sr
PH
Rugged adventure
and tender romance
against backgrounds
of outdoor grandeur.
mm
mmm
mmm
mm
V/,
V-’tt O,
T
A
s mm
m
‘ L >
i£@Ni
CINESOUND
PRODUCTION
Directed by
KEN. G. HALL
—And watch for Cinesound’s
“Tall Timbers”
at your local theatre.
Ask the Manager when you
can see it!


Personal and Missing Friends.
TO CHARLES FREDERICK NOEL IRWIN,
formerly of 32 Clendon Road, Toorak, in the
State of Victoria. TAKE NOTICE that your
wife has instituted proceedings against you for
divorce on the ground of desertion. Unless
you enter an appearance in the office of the
Prothonotary of the Supreme Court in Mel-
bourne on or before the 7th day.of October,
1937, the case may proceed in your absence
and you may be ordered to pay costs.
REGINALD KELLY & FIDDIAN,
100 Queen Street, Melbourne,
Solicitors for the Petitioner.
TO AMY PEAKE, formerly of Narrandera, in
the State of New South Wales. TAKE
NOTICE that your husband, LAWRENCE
WILLIAM PEAKE, has instituted proceedings
against you for divorce on the ground of adul-
tery. Unless you ENTER an APPEARANCE
in the office of the Prothonotary at Melbourne,
in the State of Victoria, within twenty-one days
from the date of this advertisement and file
an answer within ten days from the expiration
of the said twenty-one days, the case may pro-
ceed in your absence.
DAVID H. ALEXANDER, M.A., LL.B.,
100 Queen Street, Melbourne,
Proctor for the Petitioner.
WILL KITTY MONAGHAN or KITTY VAN-
STEIN, sister of the late Leonard Vanstein,
who died on the 21st April, 1937, formerly of
Ormond, Gisborne, New Zealand, or anyone
knowing her whereabouts, communicate with
the DISTRICT MANAGER, Public Trust
Office, Rotorua.
Re ELLEN COPE, late of 134 Franchise
Street, Wednesbury, England (late wife of
Henry Cope), deceased.
WILL CLAUDE MILLINGTON (son of
Joseph Millington), born at Kings Hill, Wed-
nesbury, Staffs, England, and late of 167 Dudley
Port, Tipton, Staffs, and last known to have
left England for Perth, Australia, about 15 years
ago, and to have resided at Bluff Point, Gerald-
ton, 12 Snowdon Street, Geraldton, and at Perth
(about seven years ago), please communicate
with ARTHUR COTTERELL, 9 The Bridge,
Walsall, England, Solicitor for the executors of
the will of the abovenamed deceased, when he
will learn of something to his advantage.
Next of Kin.
RE FANNY LARSEN, wife of Charles Larsen,
late of Victoria Terrace and Hill Street,
Gordon Park, Brisbane, in the State of
Queensland, Deceased, Intestate.
NOTICE is hereby given that all persons
claiming to be next-of-kin of the abovenamed
FANNY LARSEN, wife of Charles Larsen, late
of Victoria Terrace and Hill Street, Gordon
Park, Brisbane, in the State of Queensland,
who died on or about the Twenty-eighth day
of November, 1936, at Brisbane, in the said
State, are hereby required to forward proof of
their relationship to THE PUBLIC CURATOR,
Brisbane, on or before the Thirty-first day of
December, 1937. And that after the expiration
of the last-mentioned date The Public Curator
will proceed to distribute the assets of the said
deceased among the parties entitled thereto,
having regard only to the claims of which he
shall then have had notice.
DATED this Twenty-eighth day of August,
1937.
R. J. S. BARNETT,
Public Curator,
Edward Street, Brisbane.
Divorce Notice.
TO FRANCIS FITZGERALD formerly of 9
Westminster Street Victoria Park in the
State of Western Australia but now ot
address unknown.
TAKE NOTICE that a Citation has been
issued by this Honorable C9urt citing you to
appear and answer the petition of TERESA
MARTHA FITZGERALD of 16 Moran Street
Boulder in the said State praying for dissolution
of marriage IN DEFAULT of your so appear-
ing you will not be allowed to address the Court
and the Court will proceed to hear the said
citation proved and pronounce sentence thereto.
AND TAKE FURTHER NOTICE that for
the purpose aforesaid you are within 45 days
after the date of this publication to attend in
person or by your proctor solicitor or attorney
at the Central Office of the said Court at Perth
and there to enter an appearance in a book pro-
vided for that purpose without which you will
not be allowed to address the Court either in
person or by counsel at any stage of the pro-
ceedings in the cause.
DATED at Perth this 23rd day of August One
thousand nine hundred and thirty-seven m the
first year of our reign.
G. J. BOYLSON,
Acting-Registrar.
To be advertised in two issues of The Bulle-
tin and in one issue of the “Sunday Times.
JOSEPH, MUIR & WILLIAMS, of A.N.A.
House, St. George’s Terrace, Perth, Agents tor
MUIR & STABLES, Solicitors, Boulder, Solici-
tors for the Petitioner.
Melbourne
Shatter
Spring went into hiding on Saturday
and discouraged women from showing
off their new clothes at the races. A few
defied the bleakness in new season’s mil-
linery, but the felts had it all over the
straws. It was only the floral posies
massed on furs that saved the dressing
from gloom. Taken as a fur display, the
styles were sumptuous, but silver foxes
have become monotonous. They are
costly, but contribute nothing in the way
of brightness. It was left to the Ameri-
can negro star Nina Mae McKinney to
provide a vital spark of interest. Her
cinnamon outfit was in harmony with
her complexion. All eyes were upon this
piquante figure, her narrow tube skirt,
three-quarter cape, brown hat with a
wide, flat brim dipping over her glowing
eyes, her scarlet lips and the diamond
baubles in her ears. Peggy Mollard’s
navy blue outfit touched up with white
and worn with one of the new bonnet
hats in the same color alliance suggested
that spring is not far behind. Mrs. A.
E. Boyes, of the snow-white hair, put a
dash of turquoise blue into a brown (
outfit with the aid of earrings and scarf.
Iris Connolly’s sand-colored suit was one
of the light patches in the field of
sombreness. Mrs. Eddie Kennon,
muffled to the ears in silver fox, sat
among the elect in the committee box.
Law clerks poked fun at the law at
their merrymaking in the St. Kilda Town
Hall on Thursday night. Two humorous
effigies of Judges in full warpaint decked
the stage, and the official supper table was
strewn with miniature figures of law
clerks out for a lark. Judge Stretton,
just lately raised to this high estate, en-
joyed the skits as much as anybody. At-
tractive young women who spend their
days among parchment and red-tape
threw off office cares and popped on
pretty dance frocks. However, they did
more than look pretty, for the social suc-
cess of the dance was mainly due to
their united effort. Many well-known
members of the legal profession were
among the official guests.
Women have taken to dressing-up again.
One of the guests at the Lemon-Docker
wedding on Thursday had as many
eyes focused on her as the bride. Much
whispering went on in the pews of the
chapel as Mrs. Vernon Duckett walked
down the aisle, her six-foot of slimness
showing off one of the new abbreviated
skirts in navy-blue taffetas, with her
blonde curls massed under a cartwheel
hat in fuchsia shade, tied under the chin
with purple streamers. Everybody sat
up and took notice of this fashion figure,
a daughter of Tasmania’s jam king. On
the eve of the wedding Ida Tinsley was
so ill that she did not think it would be
possible for her to take part in the bridal
procession. However, she managed to
muster sufficient strength to don her
bridesmaid’s frock and see the ceremony
through. Then back she went to bed.
Phyllis Mein, the other bridesmaid, will
be wearing a wedding veil herself before
the year is out. Her marriage with
Maurice Nicholas has been fixed for
November 23. Sister Alison (Mrs. Allan
Stuart), Margery Nicholas, Barbara
Syme and Enid Thompson will be in
attendance. This week a start was made
with Phyllis’s future home, which is
being built at Sherbrooke, about three
miles away from Maurice’s family home.
Many of those who sat in front at the
first night of “Balalaika” went behind
after the show. It was about midnight
before the stage was cleared and set for
a supper party which was not make-
believe. Although they had come through
a hard night’s work the actors were the
life of the party. After leading lady
Margret Adams had taken off the grease
paint, she appeared in a lovely white
frock powdered with diamente. Robert
Halliday made a great hit with the ladies.
There was always laughter where one
sighted a petite figure in lobelia-blue satin
—this was comedienne Marjorie Gordon.
She even knocked official dignity out of
the Lord Mayor, who burst into gusty
laughter at her sallies. Radio music
lured many away from the buffet tables
to use the stage as a dancing floor. Com-
missioner Harold Clapp can shake a
nimble foot. Partnered by Mrs. Stewart
Ferguson he gave an exhibition of some
intricate steps. The attractive Mrs. Phil
Finkelstein had her lime-green net frock
made on the lines of those favored by
the Empress Josephine.
For the premiere performance of
“Balalaika” heads were very dressy.
Bare heads were back numbers —that is,
unless the hair was plastered into plastic
curls, tucked into haloes, or brushed into
topknots. Birds, flowers and insects
found a place among the hair. One
blonde head supported a couple of glit-
tering lizards. Stars twinkled in many
coiffures. An attractive lass in white
promenaded in the foyer in a scarlet
domino cape of diaphanous material,
with her head in the hood. Evelyn
Burnett was a scintillating figure in black
spangled tulle. Dr. Deborah Buffer
Murphy, clad in grey, massed flowers on
her corsage and left her hair unadorned.
The charming frock of dusty-pink worn
by Mrs. Journeaux did not get a chance
to show itself off, being burdened with
a cape of silver fox. Many dainty gar-
ments suffered through the same cause.
Among bright young people in the staffs
one caught a glimpse of Freda Connolly,
sparkling in gold tissue with scarlet slash-
ings, Becky Pleasance in a frilly frock
of blue net, and the Bradford twins,
Nora in deep-cream taffetas and Betty
sporting an ermine cape over blue
chiffon. Bunty Govett, just back from
abroad, covered a white satin frock with
a flowing red velvet cape caught at the
throat with ornamental metal buckles,
after the style of the capes worn in
mediaeval times.
This lady in fancy dress is Bonita Free-
man, one of the Gregan McMahon
Players, in eleventh-century costume,
masquerading as the Marchioness of Tus-
cany, one of the figures in Pirandello’s
play “Flenry 1V.,” which will be staged
by Gregan at the King’s Theatre on
Saturday night. The story is rather com-
plicated, and, so that lowbrows may have
a chance of seeing what Pirandello is
driving at, an epitome of the plot has
been put into circulation among pros-
pective patrons. Those who go to this
piece expecting to see an English mon-
arch take the stage will be all out in
their calculations. The king sketched by
the Italian playwright is only a pseudo-
royal ruler, and the robes of the eleventh
century are donned by modern figures.
There is even a psychiatrist in the cast.
When Bonita Freeman is not a mar-
chioness, she is Matilda Spina. “Henry
IV.” is the kind of play to which one must
bring one’s own thinking-box. There
are only two women in the show, and
Gwen Izzard plays the other. With the
aid of costume, cosmetics and wig
Gregan will strive to make himself look
like the mock-royal Henry. David Reid,
brought to the front through the medium
of Brett Randall’s shows at the Little
Theatre, is in this cast, and so is Frank
Goddard, one of Melbourne’s best-
known amateurs. Miss Freeman’s photo-
graph was taken at the Athol Shmith
Studio.
Jean Campbell, whose book The Red
Sweet Wine is due from overseas pub-
lishers at the end of next month, did a
bit of chatting at the Centenary Club
one night last week. The Theatre pro-
vided the theme, for which sustenance
was drawn from the Abbey Theatre in
Dublin and Moscow’s Art Theatre. So
that the speaker would not get throat-
weary, one of tha authoress’s plays
“Entr’acte” was presented, with Phyllis
Hargreave in the part of a middle-aged
actress who, at 40, imagines herself
young enough to appear as an ingenue.
Kit Smitheran tackled the part that
brought the fading star to her senses.
Jean never has the look of a struggling
writer. On this occasion she came forth
in black georgette all finely pleated, with
pearl bubbles lighting up the front.
Although this writer has taken the title
of her new book from Rupert Brooke’s
poem “The Dead” it has nothing to do
with those who have “laid the world
away.” This is a tale of the crushing
of youth by age.
In the Bohemian atmosphere of a
foreign cafe in one of the city’s bye
streets Leonard Mann was the guest of
honor at a dinner on Saturday night.
The social event was planned by a group
of writing folk to express their pleasure
at Leonard’s success with his novel
Murder in Sydney. Although the novel-
ist found himself among friends he was
almost too shy to make himself heard,
but his dainty little wife, in a short jacket
of forget-me-not blue over black, came
through unruffled. Vance Palmer and
Frank Wilmot said a few words of praise,
but Leonard persisted that it was only
luck that made the London “Book of
the Month” Club baake his novel its
choice. Nettie Palmer, frocked in nigger-
brown figured taffeta, and Frank Wil-
mot’s wife buzzed round and looked
after everybody. Among those who
toasted the novelist were Professor and
Mrs. McMahon Ball, Percival Serle,
Senator Leckie and his Hattie, the Monty
Grover couple, Doris Kerr, who writes
under the name of “Capel Boak,” Louis
Esson, Doris Hayball, Esther Levy,
whose job is handing out literature to
the reading public, and a bunch of
literary people who used to belong to
the Derelicts, now defunct
Dogs are having their day. Scattered
about Melbourne’s rural areas are
numbers of attractive maids and matrons
making dogs their speciaLcare. There
was a time when artistic-minded girls
looking for jobs after leaving school
went into florist shops or took to re-
touching in photographers’ studios, but
to-day they go to the dogs. Lydia
Drexler, still in her teens, pictured here
by Mendelssohn, has turned her back on
a business career to become a kennel
apprentice. Even in her schooldays, to
which she said good-bye a year ago,
Lydia never lost an opportunity of pick-
ing up a bit of knowledge about these
dumb friends. Some of her lore was
gleaned at the Animal Welfare Clinic, to
which the Lyle lady has been a fairy
godmother. Now Lydia has started off
scratch at the Hill Kennels at Oakleigh,
one of Victoria’s biggest boarding-houses
for dogs, run by the daughters of the
late Dr. Heber Green, Senior Lecturer
on Agricultural Chemistry at the Univer-
sity. Brother Irvine’s leanings are
towards art. Last year he carried off a
prize at the Victorian Salon of photo-
graphers, and has also won recognition
overseas with his camera studies. Last
week he invited a few friends to come
and see his collection. Irvine has fallen
under the spell of the moderns. All he
has used for a picture he has called
“Conversation Piece” is the eye of one
man, and the mouth of another.
While China is in the throes of blood
and fire, artistic evidence of its early
culture is being given at a loan exhibi-
tion in the National Gallery. So great
was the interest on the opening day that
one could not get near the porcelain for
the people. Those on the fringe of the
crowd could not catch what Dr. Joske
was saying, but they took it for granted
that the loan collection was being
launched with the right brand of official
dignity. The man who owns these
precious Oriental relics is H. W. Kent,
who picked many of them up during the
many years he spent in China. The col-
lection ranges from fragile china in shell-
pink to early bronzes. Although ceramics
predominate, space has been found for
lovely pieces of period furniture, paint-
ings on silk and wondrous specimens of
carving in jade. This is not one of those
fleeting exhibitions that open one week
and close the next. The public will have
three months to find time to go and see
these Chinese antiques. A full house is
expected the day the owner is booked to
say a few words about his treasures.
Maude Pollard, a member of the
original Pollard Lilliputian Opera Com-
pany, died in Melbourne recently at
the age of 70. The founder of this co.,
James Joseph Pollard, came to Mel-
bourne in the ’eighties with the idea of
earning his living as a piano tunei, but
he found there were not enough pianos
here to keep him going. Somebody
dropped a hint that, as Tasmania was an
earlier settlement, he might find a few
more over there. So he did, and there
he remained, and became the father of
18 children. With this family, all musical,
he formed the nucleus of a juvenile
troupe that captured money and bou-
quets in Australia, M.L. and India.
Maude, his eldest daughter, and Lucy
Cobb were the first children to appear
on the comic-opera stage in Australia,
making their debut at the Nugget Theatre
in Bourke-street. Lucy Cobb has a vivid
recollection of the fuss and bother that
followed the departure of the youngsters
to India. She declares that five politi-
cians were dispatched to Calcutta to get
the real truth about these ‘“kidnapped'’
children. James Pollard came out vic-
torious, and he and his juveniles remained
in India for two years. Nine of the Pol-
lard family are still living. In private life
Maude Pollard was Mrs. W. W. Judd.
She had such a surfeit of the theatre in
her childhood days that she had no
hankering for her children to take'to the
footlights.


7
X
p
WAKE UP ! !
rBARTZ
Nature’s Salts of the Earth
Drugs are only a temporary
relief, but BARTZ, the
IMPROVED MINERAL
SPRING TONIC SALTS, is
Nature's own remedy for
excessive fat, headaches,
rheumatic pains, sleepless-
ness, giddiness, high blood
pressure, constipation, liver,
kidney, bladder troubles, uric acid, indigestion, skin
complaints, etc. Obtainable all Chemists and Stores,
CHEAPER and BETTER 1/- & 2/- JA*S
S-T-R-E-T-C-H
YOUR MONEY
That’s why GAM has its aerial
on top of the ranges—so that
its programmes will cover the
Statu—so that the advertiser’s
message will reaeh the maximum
number of listeners, and bring
maximum results.
6AM
Prince’s Chambers,
William Street,
Perth,
Western Australia.
Brisbane Royal Show August, 1937
Out of 185 Axes used there were
166 PLUMB AXES.
PLUMB AXES won 8 Finals, including the 15 in. Standing Block
Championship, which was won by Mr. Charlie Winkel; time 5 5 sec.
HAROLD J. BEER
43-49 HARDWARE STREET, MELBOURNE, Cl, VICTORIA, AUSTRALIA.
3c s
SsO'f J' V
'mmwM
“Let Atlas carry the burden.’’
Established 1808.
Security to Policyholders exceeds
£18,000,000
F ire—Accident —Marine
WOOL (Sheep’s back to store)
CROP Insurance
Combined Hail & Fire Policies
Applications invited for Agencies where
not represented.
ATLAS
ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
(ENGLAND).
D. NORMAN TRENERY,
Manager for Australia and New Zealand,
“Atlas” Buildings, 406 Collins St., Melbourne.
Head Office for New South Wales:
“Atlas” Buildings, 8 Spring Street, Sydney.
GUY H. HEATH, Manager.
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
“X.T.”: The Commonwealth Budget
provides £lBO,OOO for N.T. development.
A second craft is to be built to patrol
the Arnhem coast. There are to be new
Commonwealth offices, water supply, a
hospital, gaol and abo. compound at
Darwin. Alice Springs is to have
a hospital and gaol, and an ore-treat-
ment plant will be put up at Ten-
nant’s Creek. About £60,000 is to be
spent on roads and inland water supply
and assistance to reduce freights to
pioneers. The year after the estimate
will probably be bigger, since Darwin is
to be replanned. The expenditure is
apart from money in the defence esti-
mates.
* * sjc
“Zedo”: Nobody can say that the
official mind does not like solitude. When
Rabaul’s aerodrome site was chosen, it
was a mere 12 miles from the heart of
the capital, which has plenty of land
adjacent to Blanche Bay on which a
land ’drome could have been co-ordi-
nated with a sea ’drome. The same
spirit is being shown at Thursday Island.
It would not have been so easy to find
a landing ground on T. 1., but it could
have been found. Nevertheless, the
authorities have chosen a spot on Horn
Island, a discreet blob of land, just
about in sight of the main settlement and
cut off from it by racing tides, to which
T.I. newly-weds repair for honeymoons.
The piece of earth is regularly under
water during the “north-west” season.
Several thousand pounds are to be spent
on laying down the ground and its fix-
tures ; almost certainly several thousand
pounds more will presently be spent on
moving them to a drier region.
* * * *
“El V.” ; Though the South hears little
of it, leprosy is becoming a curse in parts
of the North. This year a white family
has been taken to Darwin leprosarium,
and the latest news affects the half-caste
colony which was founded on Groote
Eylandt—where it is proposed to estab-
lish an air-mail base—ls years ago. Origi-
nally there were about 40 of these
people, but when Dr. Cook, the N.T.’s
chief medical officer, paid a visit the other
day he discovered that the scourge had
wiped out the whole lot except for one
family. The colony was founded by the
Church of England. It was hoped to
make farmers of the colonists, who were
recruited over a wide area.
* * * m
“Ex-Mister”: Outside the Brisbane
Water Police Station in Edward-street is
an old cannon with some history about
it. Originally part of the armament of
H.M.S. Unicorn, a naval reserve training
ship at Dundee, Scotland, the gun was
bought, when she was broken up in
1863, for the ship Young Australia by
Captain Charles Grey, R.N.R., then her
mate and later skipper, as a saluting
gun and Chinese-pirate-discourager. Nine
years later, after he had taken over the
ship Omar, the Young Australia, bound
out for London, was wrecked off North
Point, near Cape Moreton. The cannon
was salvaged and mounted in its present
locality in 1872. Captain Grey’s son,
Captain J. C. Grey, is now marine super,
of the Marine Underwriters’ Association,
and his son, J. L. Grey, is a Qantas pilot.
* * * #
“Dungeness”: Revival of mining in
the N.T. recalls the boom days of 40
years ago and some of the plucky folk
who pioneered them. One of the few
survivors is F. Saxe, now of Brisbane.
“Ma” Brown made a good thing of a
wolfram show 40 miles west of Pine
Creek, doing her own crushing and
working her Chinese coolies night and
day, under the combined persuasions of
a stimulating tongue and a .45 Colt.
The brothers Cousin, W. Byrne, now of
Tipperary station, and an English co.
having Jim Fredericks in local com-
mand all got big returns at Brock’s
Creek, 100 miles or so south from
Darwin. Near Pine Creek, 50 miles
farther south still, 700 Chinese coolies
made what passed with them for
riches when whites left the work-
ings because yields had fallen to an
“Boss in , missus ?”
‘No, Jacky. Why, anything Wrong P”
“ Yes—me an police pfeller just takum longa hospital .”
ounce a ton. Their bones are showing
up in many a reopened working now.
* * * *
“Clayfield”: One profession in which
we Queenslanders excel is that of rat-
catching. It is our proud boast that
while Sydney has only seven catchers
and Melbourne four, we run to 46. Last
year they caught nearly 1000 rodents
apiece, at a cost of 4s. 6d. a head —the
total cost was £10,290. Now their pride
in their jobs is impelling them to demand
higher wages. Their union secretary says
that rat-catching calls for more than
ordinary qualifications. Those who prac-
tise it must be courteous to house-
holders, neat and tidy, and have dogs
with good manners. The rats, of course,
qualify merely by being rats.
* V * *
“Dungeness”: Sight of St. Helena in
Moreton Bay, former prison and present
municipal white elephant, recalls that
abo. desperado Burketown Peter, who
was drowned 16 years ago while escaping
on a crazy raft improvised from an old
target. By 1918, Peter made things too
hot for himself about Burketown (N.Q.),
and went on a walkabout which brought
him to Mornington Island, 80 miles away.
A strong and forceful character, he per-
suaded some of the local natives to help
him murder the Rev. Robert Hall, head
of the mission, and severely wound an
assistant with the slain man’s shotgun.
With the help of two women, Owen, the
assistant, beat off the attack —the loop-
holes in the walls were still in evidence a
year ago. Peter got a life sentence, and
served three insubordinate years before his
attempt at escape. His body was never
found, and there is still a northern abo.
legend that “Peter he come back one day,
shootum plenty white man.”
* * * *
“Uncle M.D.”: Tiaro (C.Q.) has been
perturbed by reports of two strange
animals seen recently in the Banarago
Range, nine miles or so westward. Several
eyewitnesses have described them as
larger than a dingo, and far more heavily
built, with shaggy black coats, bushy tails,
curved up over the back, and large orange
eyes. Tracks showed that the prints of
the hind feet often overlapped the front
ones, a distinctly bearlike attribute. A
subsequent hunting party got sight of a
similar animal, but could not get a shot
on account of thick undergrowth. Local
abo. legend, long before the present hap-
pening, had it that devils lived in the
Banarago country, with a gastronomic
liking for babies and bears. Both are
rare nowadays, but if the alleged beasts
can put up with wallabies there are
plenty in the neighborhood still. Any-
how, there’s a small fortune for the
hunter who can produce a new Austra-
lian animal.
"Australia Jane's" Budget
L. E. Gielgud, under-secretary-general
of the International League of Red Cross
Societies, and his bride, formerly Zita
Gordon, a Hungarian actress educated
in England, were on the last boat to leave
Shanghai before fighting broke out. The
lady is slim and has some lovely clothes.
There was a civic reception for them,
after which Mrs. Gielgud lunched with
the members of the Moreton Club. The
Blair lady and Mrs. Forgan Smith and
about a score of members of the execu-
tive of the Red Cross entertained the
honeymooners at luncheon at Finney’s,
after which the party went on to the
annual meeting of the Red Cross Society.
Hilarious posters, masses of flowers
and quantities of balloons provided the
setting for Eager’s staff ball at the
Trocadero. A lad was kept busy run-
ning round the alcoves with chocolates,
olives and gherkins, Phyllis Sheridan
danced, Mr. and Mrs. D’Arcy Ames
were official host and hostess, and Mr.
and Mrs. L. H. Green the guests of
honor.
Some long-service records were dis-
closed when the nurses, past and present,
of the Diamantina Hospital met for their
annual reunion. Matron E. Francis, one
of a family of nurses with fine records,
welcomed the visitors, among whom were
Florence Chatfield, who was at the hos-
pital for 33 years, and then matron;
Nurse Roberts, whose term of service
was 25 years, and Nurse Chapman, who
after 14 years at the Diamantina now
has a hospital of her own. Superinten-
dent F. M. Staubwisser has been in the
place for 36 years.
The Royal Queensland Aero Club's
ball was a huge success. President Ray
Galloway and his wife received the
guests, and in the official party were
Commander and Mrs. E. C. Rhodes,
Brigadier and Mrs. E. M. Williams, Lt.-
Col. and Mrs. O. V. Hoad, Colonel
Evans and daughter Florine and others.
There were lots of five-to-seven parties
before the ball —the R. U. Reids gave
one, Mr. and Mrs. P. H. Moody
another, and Mr. and Mrs. Alan Camp-
bell entertained a big party and later on
brought them to the ball. The Wyndham
Pikes had an alcove crammed with
guests, and Eunice Brunckhorst and her
brother brought along a bunch of young
married folk and bachelor boys and
girls.
St. John’s Cathedral was packed to
the doors for the Stewart-Woodhead
wedding, a military affair, with a guard
of honor of A.L.H., Artillery and Sig-
nallers. Hugh Dalzell Stewart, the bride-
groom, holds a commission in the Prince
of Wales’s Own (West Yorkshires), and
is attached to the King’s African Rifles
at Dar-es-Salaam, Tangan-
yika. Arlie Woodhead, the
bride, elder daughter of Mr.
and Mrs. Charles Woodhead,
was given away by her father.
An Empire gown of pearl
slipper satin, veil and coronet
of orange-blossoms were her
draperies, and she carried a
Carrickmacross handkerchief
and a sprig of heather, sent
to her by her new mother-in-
law. The bridesmaids, in
frocks of Naples blue, with
square-cut necks and padded
hems, wore Swedish head-
dresses of pale-blue del-
phiniums with a touch of
cherry. Doug Woodhead
was trainbearer, Lieut. Hugh
Malcolm McArthur, in the
uniform of the Australian
Staff Corps, was best man,
and Lieut. Brutin, Captain
Felix Randall, Captain Frank
St. John and Lieut. Hugh
Nelson were groomsmen.
Red-and-gold ribbons marked
the guest pews, and the chan-
cel was a mass of arum-lilies.
Officers’ mess of the A.A.S.C. had
its fifth annual at-home in corps head-
quarters’ dance-hall at Kelvin Grove, and
decked the room with green boughs and
masses of blue-and-white bunting. Spring
flowers were on the buffet supper-tables.
Lt.-Col. W. C. Rankin, E.D., and Mrs.
Rankin received, and there was a big
roll-up of military men and their wives.


1937 BELONGS TO
re
• l
m
IP*
II
(8) VALVE FOR MONEY
Value means utility, desirability, and worth.
Let’s see how much of each the 1937 Oldsmobile offers you—how really
outstanding it is in value.
Take utility. Oldsmobile’s new I-beam X-type frame increases torsional
strength 80%. The sturdy 7-bearing rear axle is the strongest, in proportion
to load, ever built into any car. Independent Front Wheel Springing and
front and rear Ride Stabilizers smooth out the roughest road. Self Equalising
Super-Hydraulic Brakes, and Independent Mechanical Hand Brake, ensure
safety. Cross Centre Control Self-Centering Steering gives finger-tip control;
Synchro-Mesh gears give easy, instant, changes.
Now for desirability. You’ll find new standards of style and comfort in the
1937 Oldsmobile. Interior luxury is superb. Relax-O-Form seating pro-
vides all the comfort you could wish.
And Oldsmobile’s worth is lasting ! Quality keeps it “new-looking.” Per-
formance is making it famous. Two or three years from now you’ll find
yourself owner of a valuable asset, with a high re-sale value. Take one out
on the road now, and you’ll return convinced that it is outstanding value
for money.
OLDSMOBILE
Consult your Local Authorised Dealer
Sold and Serviced by Oldsmobile Dealers all over Australia
Ask about the Confiden-
tial G.M.A.C. Conveni-
ent Payment Plan.
Your Money Goes
Farther in a G.M.-H.
Car.
General Motors-Holden’s Ltd.
(Incorporated in Victoria)
“AIR - CHIEF”
CAR RADIO
Instal an “ AIR-
CHIEF” two-unit
Car Radio, especially
designed for the
1937 Oldsmobile,
featuring exclusive
speaker and control
unit to match instru-
ment panel; separate
Bin. dynamic speaker
if desired.
THE LITTLE SISTERS.
U P at daybreak at Dandarragan home-
stead just in time to stop the ’plane-car-
and-horseback search that was being
and vivid lasses are leav-
. Perth _ Joan Good; for a i ong while
thg writer of this lettel% for p en ang and
matr j mony with Lyndon V. Brady, for-
merly of Perthj and Lola stuart-Smith,
c f dle n j m ble pen, who will set sail for
Europe and husband-to-be Wing-Com-
mander John Coleman, of the Air Min-
istry in London. Repertory work, radio
programmes and the journalistic field
will all suffer from Joan’s departure.
Her friends nearly caused a traffic block
in Howard-street when the Good family
dispensed farewell cocktails at the
Ple^ d w e e S d d' n g with S t. Mary's for a set-
was tha , of the p erl h Bowleys’
younger daughter, Beryl, and Alan Gibbs,
who hails from Adelaide. Translucent
p ear j velvet built on Tudor lines moulded
t he fading lady and trailed behind her
j n lengths of seed-pearl encrusted train,
Tiers of filmy tulle wafted from a
coronet of orange-blossom. A white
camellia encircled with miniature daffo-
dils formed a fetching topknot above
sister Billie s matching velvets shirred
into a heart-shaped neckline and up-
standing shoulders. Toasts were honored
at the Bowley home in Karoo-street The
newly-weds’ future address will be
Adelaide.
Y.W.C.A. money-bags felt muen
heavier after the Blue Triangle Fair,
Mrs. Ernest Lee Steere left the presi-
dential chair to escort the v.-r. lady
round the stalls after the opening speech.
The display in the world-fellowship
corner included Rumanian embroideries
and Irish peat houses in miniature. . A
party for the under-eights supervised
by Jean Mofflin, of Kindergarten fame,
a concert by members of the 1920 Club
and a dance to wind up the two-day
effort helped to swell the funds.
Art Show habitues gathered round
H B. Jackson when he opened local
artist Lionel Jago’s exhibition of oils
and water-colors at Newspaper House
Gallery. Most of the subjects concerned
Perth and its environs. “Blackball
Reach” and “Hazy Morning drew
eddies of admirers, and several water-
colors of Cottesloe caused ripples ot
appreciation.
Lovers of chamber music, whose
opportunities of enjoying this art are all
too few, filled the McNess Hall to
overflowing for the third recital of the
Perth Chamber Music Club. Modern
British composers, Stanford, John Ire-
land, Frank Bridge and Arnold Bax,
monopolised the instrumental side of the
programme, and songstress Mrs. Alethea
Hunter delved into Elizabethan times
for her string - quartet - accompanied
offerings.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Adelaide’s farewell to the Medical Con-
gress was a ball at the Palais Royal,
where the stage was banked with white
and pink peach-blossom. Dr. and Mrs.
Rupert Magarey received the guests.
There were 1200 present, and the frock-
ing was brilliant, much gold satin and
gold lame being worn, while diamond
tiaras were well in evidence. Hardly
anyone wore black. Supper was served
in three huge marquees, and champagne
flowed as it has never flowed before in
Adelaide. Daffodils, hyacinths, sweet-
peas, mauve irises and green candles in
matching candlesticks of frosted glass
decorated the supper tables. Among the
guests were the Newland and Ritchie
ladies, Lady Mayoress Barrett and Mrs.
R. L. Butler.
Some of the visiting medicoes brought
their daughters with them, so Helena
Newland got a committee of young folk
together and arranged picture parties and
dances at the Blue Grotto preceded by
buffet dinners.
Mrs. Romilly Harry, a Sydney girl
prior to her marriage, celebrated her
coming of age. She and her husband
gave a cocktail party at their beautiful
home, St. Vigeans, Mount Lofty. The
reception rooms were decorated with
pink and white camellias and spring
flowers all from the garden. About 75
guests were entertained.
Young men seldom have a dance
given for them, but three popular young
fellows, Richard Le Messurier, John
Jeffries and Peter Roberts, were so
honored at a ball given by their re-
spective parents—Mrs. A. R. Le Mes-
surier, L. W. Jeffries and Mrs. R. V.
Thomas (mother of Peter Roberts) —in
John Martin’s dining-hall. Daffodils and
Iceland poppies decorated.
After the successful run of “Viktoria
and Her Hussar” Margaret Pirie, who
played Viktoria, entertained the princi-
pals, Alan Chapman and Mr. and Mrs.
Rendall, at her home. Mrs. Janzow, one
of the chorus, had a large party at
Arcadia, and others of the company
finished the night at the Blue Grotto.
The centenary celebrations of the P.
and O. Co. on board the Mooltan took
the form of a cocktail party in the after-
noon and a dance at night. Several home-
coming Adelaide people remained on the
ship for the party. Everyone admired
the models in colored ice-cream of the
company’s new ship, the Strathmore, and
the first steamer of the line, the William
Fawcett.
News comes from London of the
Colin Crawford-Marjorie Day wedding
at All Souls’ Church. Following the
ceremony the bride’s parents, Mr. and
Mrs. H. M. Day, of Melbourne, enter-
tained about 40 guests at the Langham
Hotel. After touring England and the
Continent the Crawfords will return to
Australia via the U.S.A., and expect to
arrive in Adelaide in January next.
TASMANIA.
The Premier and Mrs. Ogilvie received
a great welcome home at the Continental
from the Hobart women’s branch of the
A.L.P. Mrs. Ogilvie and daughter Pat
had arrived that afternoon from Sydney.
Tables were decorated in the supper-
room with red poppies and pussy-willow.
Mrs. Ogilvie’s black moire frock had a
short bolero coatee, and her skirt was
trained.
The A.I.F. Ball is always one of Laun-
ceston’s bright occasions, and this year's
effort was quite a brilliant affair, with
crowds of dancers and a galleryful of
onlookers. Frocking was particularly
smart, tunics being much in evidence,
and the just-off-the-ground skirt more
popular than the trained one among the
dancers.
Mrs. W. W. Giblin and her sister,
Elsie Maxwell, were hostesses of a
bridge party at the Queen Mary Club to
welcome home their sister, Rhymer
Maxwell. The flowers used in decora-
tion were a show in themselves—glorious
narcissi and many varieties of japonica.
Mrs. Giblin wore black lace, Elsie Max-
well was in heliotrope and black, with
short basqued coatee, and the guest of
honor wore a gown with the London
stamp on it, midnight blue with silver-
sequin trimming and flowing sleeves.
The Northern Tas. Bridge Association
has started a duplicate bridge tourna-
ment, and held its first session in the
front lounge of the Brisbane Hotel
(Launceston). The committee includes
Mrs. H. Fraser, Mrs. A. E. Pepper, Mrs.
C. R. Hawker, Mrs. G. B. Grubb and
Mrs. Henry Reed. The room was very
gay with daffodils and fruit blossom.
Billie Hogarth (Launceston) gave a
pre-wedding party for Jessie Nicolson
at the Launceston Hotel, when each guest
came with something for the new nest’s
pantry. Jessie’s woolly frock was in
beige with a dark navy spot.
The Cygnet Bush Nursing Committee
ran a very successful dance to raise
funds. Guests drove from all parts of
the district, with a sprinkling from town,
and the financial result was cheering.
Reports of infantile paralysis on the
mainland put a stopper on inter-’Varsity
hockey, but a dance that was part
of the arrangements was held in the
library, with a small crowd instead of
a big one. Diana Thompson and Rosa-
bel Radcliff, both home on leave from
their jobs in Sydney, were there, and
Rosabel brought a W.A. friend, Ngaere
Purser, with her.
Mary Fox, principal of Launceston
Methodist Ladies’ College, is back again
after a year’s travel in the U.S.A. and
Britain, where she studied educational
methods.
Sir Percy and Lady Meadow and Dr.
and Mrs. Malherbe, visitors to the Speck
for the Educational Conference, are stay-
ing at Government House.
WESTRALIA.
The Embassy was transformed into a
Devil’s Grotto and threw open the
doors to the Underwork! for those who
rolled up to the Movie Ball. A deep
crimson-lit cave guarded by big imps
brandishing pitchforks housed Betsy
Spigl’s orchestra. Fearsome caverns and
infernos lined the galleries, and brown
owls perched among the branches of
life-sized trees and blinked at the revels
below. Talkie shorts filled gaps between
dances, topical slides shone forth at in-
tervals and Alan Grant partnered Letty
Feakes to demonstrate the rumba. Presi-
dent J. Stiles escorted his other half in
cordings of magpie-hued satins, secretary
C. G. Norton's wife swung dewdrop
net cape over sooty embossed faille, an
Mrs. Keith McKinley flaunted outsize
orchids on her black-tulip crepe swath-
ings. Topknots of flowers perched at
jaunty angles on most of the feminine
heads, whether sleek, plastically be-
curled, Grecian rolled, halo-plaited or
bunned.
Hunting folk packed chiffons with
their riding togs and sped by train and
road to Moora for their annual week-
end J. P. Durack was acting-master,
and' president J. J. Poynton made his
first appearance on the hunting field
since his return from Coronation junket-
ings. Moora folk put on a cheery dance
on the Saturday, at which Elsie Sandi-
lands changed trim breeks for diaphan-
ous clouds of palest-pink ninon, Molly
Miles substituted a topknot in her dark
curls for the usual bowler, and Mrs.
Don Chipper discarded high stock for
decollete black satins. Terrific storms
marred an afternoon’s run during which
four members of the Hunt Club lost
quarry, pack and their bearings, and had
to keep riding all night. They turned


■
■
1
■
HP
SI :
n
K-' ■
L _ ' JIK
msssbm
A typical Country
Scene—and a
typical Hat for the
Country
In the saddle all day long—
under sweltering heat. That’s
when the horseman appreciates
good attire. An ordinary hat.
for instance, may give comfort,
but the “Track” Riding Hal
gives , the ultimate in wear
appearance and comfort.
The “TRACK”
RIDING HAT
The “Track” Riding Hat is of dashing style and
comfort. Its extremely wide leaf, measuring 4-2-in.,
ensures maximum comfort in sun and glare. The
“Track” is made of Pure Fur Felt and is
available in Fawn or Black, with Self Band.
When ordering from Pike
Brothers, Limited, Queen Street, PRICE
Brisbane, do not forget to state
colour preferred and your size.
PIKE BROTHERS
LIMITED
In Queen Street -
Brisbane
The Long Cloud
“Xo”: When Minister Semple says
Maoriland has nothing to learn from
Australia’s different transport regulations
he probably means he couldn’t discover
any new restriction likely to boost the
returns of ever-hungry railway lines.
What he should have sensed was a grow-
ing Australian impatience with Govern-
ment regulations designed to stifle road
competition ; regulations that he himself
has warned Maorilanders they can ex-
pect unless they support less efficient
railways. As far as actual traffic control
is concerned, Mr. Semple is right when
he says Maoriland has nothing to learn
from Australia ; in fact, the tyre is on
the other wheel. Christchurch has just
adopted the Wellington idea of a train-
ing school for delinquent motorists, who
can be ordered to attend by the Courts
before whom their road misdeeds land
them. Melbourne and Sydney could do
with the same sort of schools ; they could
even add to the curriculum the American
idea of producing for the benefit of care-
less drivers the corpses that wouldn’t be
corpses but for motoring negligence.
* * * *
“Fergus”: Penny postage, cheaper tele-
grams and a more satisfactory telephone
system (B. 25/8/’37) do not complete
the list of post and telegraph advantages
that Maorilanders enjoy over Australians.
Besides the efficient handling of mail and
looking after various means of communi-
cation, the Maoriland department handles
the registration of motor vehicles and
collects unemployment taxes; it has also
followed the Australian precedent of
issuing radio licenses. Maoriland’s p.
and t. accounting system must be more
adaptable than in Australia, because the
extra work of registering motor vehicles
and collecting unemployment taxes hasn’t
involved wholesale staff additions over
the last 10 years. And the department,
penny postage and all, still operates on
a good annual profit.
* * * *
“Mak”: If one-third of the Maori-
landers holding radio receiving licenses
listen to Prime Minister Savage’s Parlia-
mentary and departmental broadcasts,
the political message will have a larger
circulation than any daily newspaper in
the country (B. 1/9/’37). Seventy-two
per cent, of Maoriland’s homes are ser-
viced, but by its introduction of a
national chain of competitive com-
mercial stations, Labor has given list-
eners more choice. Dad may want to
listen to political debates and reviews of
public works expenditure; the kids
will soon be chasing round the dial for
music or a wrestling match.
* * * *
“Kiwit”: Survey of the South West-
land timber area where there is supposed
to be enough millable white pine to
obviate the necessity for Maoriland’s
present export restrictions (B. 25 / 8 / ’37)
hasn’t satisfied settlers in the locality.
They declare the Forestry Department
survey doesn’t do justice to the reason-
able economic claims for access roads
and a Jackson’s Bay harbor. The settlers
have petitioned Parliament for an in-
quiry commission of one departmental
officer, a sawmiller and a bushman. One
petitioning sawmiller says the depart-
ment estimated a white-pine yield of
3,500,000 superficial feet for 150 square
miles of country that he and other prac-
tical timbermen believe to be capable of
producing 1,500,000,000 feet of that
timber. Development of tourist traffic
and of blue-cod fishing grounds are
minor reasons behind this petition for
better access facilities, and, on the face
of it, the Savage Government would be
more justified in spending public money
to develop this corner of Maoriland than
in putting non-paying railway lines
through well-roaded areas in other parts
of the country.
* * * *
Korero”: Sheepmen within easy dis-
tance of several Maoriland centres have
a tresh quarrel with the 40-hour week—
one that has never occurred to its sup-
porters. The Labor innovation has given
more city workers the leisure to go bush,
and a premium on wild-pig snouts pro-
vides sufficient incentive for planned
hunting parties. Theoretically, this
should please rather than enrage sheep-
men whose hills are combed oy tnese
parties ; wild pigs are always a nuisance
on bush holdings, and at this time of the
year they are a menace to young lambs.
“ Don't stand up till the ship passes
But the Maoriland farmer has never had
much respect for “townies,” who so easily
forget to shut gates, and he has nothing
but raging contempt for those whose
poorly-controlled dogs worry his sheep!
Four farmers in the Hutt County lately
lost 160 sheep to worrying dogs believed
to have been left behind by pig-hunters
from Wellington,, and the council has
asked the Counties Association to seek
legislation that will bar the issue of dog
licenses to people unable to control their
mongrels.
* * * *
“M.”: Reference to protected Aus-
tralian birds in Maoriland (B. 28/7/’37)
reminds me that there are a couple of
kookaburras laughing at life on a Can-
terbury sheep-station. Australian authori-
ties will relax export restrictions for odd
birds wanted as pets. The kookaburra
is fully protected for the whole year in
Victoria, but protection conditions vary
in some other States; when birds are
wanted by overseas visitors, permission
for their removal must be obtained from
the head of the department concerned.
The two Canterbury kookaburras are
said to be the only ones which have
taken kindly to colder Maoriland condi-
tions ; and they still cherish an outback
Australian suspicion of newspaper photo-
graphers judging by their cynical stares in
a recent press picture.
* * * *
“Kohi”: Earth faults have changed
parts of Maoriland’s interior as well as
altering those slices of coastline men-
tioned by several recent Bulletin con-
tributors. The 1929 Murchison shake,
which changed the topography of
stretches of the South Island’s west
coast, was more severe than the 1931
’quake in Hawke’s Bay; the Westland
hills that suffered most in 1929 were not
so heavily populated as the Napier-Has-
tings area, and the earlier death-roll was
much smaller. But surveyors and alpine
club climbers are still discovering topo-
graphical changes. One of the latest con-
cerns the visit by West Coast Alpine Club
members to Lake Ruby, found and
named by a survey party which traversed
the Hohonu Range on the West Coast
in 1907. The 1937 alpinists say they
reached the suposed site of the lake—
and all that was missing was the lake
itself! Surrounding country bore evi-
dence of comparatively recent earth dis-
turbances, and the climbers believe the
water of the lake was liberated by the
1929 shake ; further explorations are to
be made by land and air before locality
maps are altered.
* * * *
“D.N.”: The Maori war canoe that
Sydney may see if Princess Te Puea and
her people attend the N.S.W. 150th anni-
versary celebrations (B. 1/9/’37) will be
one of a fleet of seven that Ngaruawahia
Maoris propose to launch on the Waite-
mata harbor during Maoriland’s centen-
ary in 1940. The Maori craftsmen now
working under the directions of Te Puea’s
elderly canoe-chipping experts haven’t
far to go for an authentic model, for
there is an old-time war-canoe in storage
on the pah bank of the Waikato River
where they are shaping the totara trees
for the new ones. Even the terms of its
storage are typically native; it is in
tapu—ouX of bounds for all but a few
specified Maoris. Except for their use of
more modern tools, the 1937 canoe-
builders are following closely the
methods of their forefathers —which is
part of Te Puea’s plan to keep alive
in her younger people an appreciation of
all that is best in Maori arts and crafts.
* * * *
“Jane”: Said Holyoake, member for
Motueka (M.L.), addressing a meeting
at Wellington: “There was only one man
who went into Parliament with honest
intentions.” “I know who that is,” said
a voice from the back. “Well, who is
it?” asked the speaker. Amid cheers the
voice replied: “Bob Semple.” “No, it
wasn’t,” retorted
Ho 1 yoake ; “it
was Guy Fawkes.”
* *
“Runa”: An
anti-nudist who
was determined to
make his objec-
tions felt entered
t h e Dominion
Art Galleries at
Wellington (M.L.)
the other day and
removed a round
of canvas about
the size of a
dinner-plate from
a picture that
jarred his prin-
ciples. The can-
vas, a much-ad-
mired Harold
Speed, cost the
buyers, who pre-
sented it to the
gallery, £l5O, and
is now a com-
plete ruin, the
vandal having an-
nexed the larger
portion of the
semi-nude damsel
who occupied the
foreground.
* *
“Eureka”: In a
recent M.L. case
a witness duly kissed the book and gave
his evidence. It was not until the case
had been finished that it was discovered
(hat he ha(J been sworn on a dicti o„ a ry
£ med ; ca | [crms that had accidentally
b left on the raU o£ the witn!;ss . box .
, late to do anything then.
If any illustration in The Bulletin
takes your fancy, write to the manager,
who will quote you price for the original.


04^
CAN TIT THIS
RADIOKES VIBRATOR
Any man or boy—even if he knows NOTHING about radio—can fit
his present battery radio with the RADIOKES VIBRATOR—and
start saving money and getting better radio reception right away!
It is so easy and simple to instal, yet marvellously efficient, satisfactory
and reliable in service. And how it saves you battery replacements!
The Radiokes Vibrator is designed to supply “B” Voltage up to 150 volts,
with a maximum current rating of 40 m.a. The power transformer and
filter choke have a6O m.a. rating. Com-
pletely assembled on a cadmium-plated
chassis, and the whole enclosed in an
attractive black crystalline case.
With each Radiokes Vibrator you now get
FREE a valuable Voltage Divider Unit
which enables anyone to convert an
ordinary battery receiver for vibrator
operation.
/
/
FJE
m
m
W
w
as
H
,1
?R3
:T*;'&
:•*{
£3
v .v
m®
uAi
PRICE
GREATLY REDUCED.
A reduction made pos-
sible by the exceptional
popularity of the Radi-
okes Vibrator. Order
yours NOW from your
nearest radio dealer.
A
£7'7-
Free literature on Radiokes Vibrator is available from Radiokes Pty., Ltd., Box 10, P. 0., Redfern, Sydney.
KM i
TURN THE DIAL ON
RADIO’S GREATEST ACHIEVEMENT —
The Mid-Season Models of
THE 1937 ULTIMATE RADIO
THE GOLDEN VOICE OE THE AIK.
Write for full particulars to
George Brown & Company Pty., Ltd.,
Electrical & Industrial Engineers,
267 Clarence Street, Sydney.
’Phone: M 2544—3 Lines.
Sole Australian Concessionaires.
RADIO NEWS.
DON B. KNOCK'S PAGES.
13.5 Watt Push-pull 2A3
Amplifier.
A seven-watt quality amplifier for
2A3’s in push-pull was described in B.
21/7/’37. For those who want more
output from 2A3’s there is another
Radiotron amplifier design from A.W.
Valve Co. It uses a 6C6 connected as a
pentode in the input stage, followed by
another connected as a high-gain triode
in the second stage. Resistance coupling
is used throughout, and two 42’s follow
the triode 6C6 which is used as a phase
splitter. The 42’s are also operated as
triodes to drive the two 2A3’s.
Such an amplifier may be very easily
made up, and there will be no likelihood
of trouble provided that good-quality
resistances are used in the resistor net-
Circuit diagrams, with values, of a
13.5-watt resistance coupled 2A3
amplifier suggested by Radiotron
engineers.
work. Although greater power and less
distortion are obtainable by the use of
fixed bias, it becomes necessary to use a
separate rectifier and filter for the bias
supply. An output of 13.5 watts has
been found possible from two 2A3’s
operating on semi-fixed bias. To give
complete protection to the valves, the
resistance of each grid circuit has been
kept to the limit of 50,000 ohms. To
do this without overloading the previous
stage, it was necessary to use a power
triode which could be operated on a
plate load resistance of 10,000 ohms, and
the use of the type 42 permits this with
a minimum of distortion. The fact that
each 42 valve is resistance-coupled limits
the plate current. The 10,00-ohm resis-
tors should be each of two-watt rating
to carry the plate current. Grid-stopping
resistances, each of 1000 ohms, are con-
nected in the 2A3 grid circuits in order
to minimise the instability occurring at
the grid current point on overload.
As the diagram shows, provision is
made for a radio tuner to be connected
ahead of the amplifier. To obtain 300
volts for the plates of the 2A3
valves, together with the necessary
60 volt bias, a 500-0-500 volt trans-
former and 5Z3 rectifier were adopted,
Filtering shown in the diagram is
adequate, and the hum level in the
amplifier constructed for test purposes
was 52 DB below maximum output,
Load resistance from plate to plate was
taken as 4000 ohms, a compromise be-
tween distortion and power output.
Higher load resistance would give slightly
less distortion with less output,
Provision is made for exciting two
loudspeaker field coils of 2500 ohms at
nine watts each, or alternatively a single
field coil of 5000 ohms at 18 watts. It
is essential to use a load of the value
specified, and if a smaller wattage is re-
quired by the speaker field an additional
load should be imposed by means of a
resistor so that a total of 18 watts is dis-
sipated. All resistor and condenser values
are indicated on the diagram.
D.B.K.
Radio Comment.
“Video”: Only one word has been
coined which aptly describes a television
receiver—“ Televisor.” The term was
applied by John Baird in 1925 and regis-
tered by the Baird Co. as a trade-mark, so
that its general use was precluded. The
co. now announces that it is relinquishing
the right to the sole use of the word, as
it has come into such general use, parti-
cularly in the U.S.A., that enforcement
of rights would be unfriendly.
+ * * *
“D.8.K.”: A friend in a town about
300 miles from Sydney struck trouble in
a faithful old neutrodyne battery receiver
and took it to the local radio “expert.”
Original valves were English base type.
These Were given some sort of a testing
and classed as dud. Having no valves
with similar bases, the “expert” tried to
force similar types of valves, but with
the American UX bases, into the Eng-
lish sockets. The results can be imagined.
* * * *
“Flux”: Only the best variable con-
densers should be used in short-wave sets.
Cheaper types tend to develop noise on
the higher frequencies after a while.
Should this occur rubbing between the
plates with a pipe-
cleaner will prove
useful.
* * *
“D. C. N. Jnr.”:
Many good accumu-
lators suffer from
testing with cheap
voltmeters. These
cause almost a direct
short-circuit and, be-
sides being injurious
to any kind of bat-
tery, give an ex-
tremely unreliable
indication. The only
accurate accumula-
tor test is to measure
the specific gravity
of the solution in the
cells with a reliable
hydrometer. When
the gravity reads
1.180 the battery is
fully charged, and
when 1.150 it is
dead. Should ter-
minals .become sul-
phated pour a solution of baking soda
over each and wash off. Smear them
with vaseline to prevent further sulpha-
tion. The plates should be kept approxi-
mately three-eighths covered with dis-
tilled water. Tap water should not be
used in any circumstances.
* * 4 *
“R.H.A.”: Headphones belong exclu-
sively to crystal-set owners and amateur
and commercial “ops.” these days.
’Phones make for greater certainty in
copying signals, and also enable greater
concentration on a broadcast item. Broad-
casting nowadays is not the adventure it
was, and the family circle of 1937 would
laugh at the mere suggestion of donning
’phones and listening in. Yet acoustic
experts have had many kind things to say
about the despised headgear, chief of
which concerns the greater degree of
fidelity possible by the careful design of
earpieces, while received sounds cannot
be lost or spoilt by varying room acous-
tics. The best and most expensive high-
fidelity receiver can sound poorly if in-
stalled in bad acoustic surroundings,
whereas the headphone set is unaffected.
* =? * *
“Cluny”: The standard charge of £1
in most radio shops for assembling the
components on a chassis is no more than
fair in view of the amount of work in-
volved, but I was astounded to learn from
a friend who had bought a two-circuit
crystal set that he was stung for the same
amount for assembling. The components
can be bought for five bob.
* * * *
“Norwood”: Mention of directional
aerials (B. 18/8/’37) fecalls a device in
common use on household sets a decade
ago, which has nowadays developed into
the familiar radio direction-finder. For
small flats and second floors nothing
could be more useful than the loop-aerial.
It is not necessary to know anything
about radio to construct one. Simply
make a wooden cross of 6ft. to 10ft.
timber and mount it on some kind of
stand so that it is free to rotate. Wind
between 50ft. and 70ft. of insulated wire
of any description around the tips of this
former ; leave both ends loose from the
frame and insert one into the aerial ter-
minal and the other into the earth ter-
minal of the set. No further earthing is
necessary. Find out roughly the direction
in which the various transmitting stations
are, and when tuning-in point the side-
peak of a diamond in the general direc-
tion of the signal. Flat-on, practically
nothing comes through, so that the gadget
can also be used as a volume control.
[“Norwood’s” suggestion, whilst work-
able, is a compromise. A true loop aerial
must be tuned, and usually takes the place
of the first tuned R.F. circuit in a re-
ceiver.—D. B. K.]
Simple A.C. Motor.
The amateur transmitter will find a
small experimental A.C. motor useful. It
can, for instance, be adapted for driving
automatic sending gear.
It consists of a wooden rotor, 3in.
diameter and |in. thick, which rotates be-
tween the poles of a laminated horseshoe
magnet. The magnet is wound with 600
turns of 22 s.w.g. wire on each limb, the
coils connected in series and tuned with
a condenser of approx. 4mfd. and the
rotor fitted with eight laminated insets
of iron. The horseshoe magnet and in-
sets may be made from the stampings of
old transformers.
Used on A.C. mains of 240 volts, the
motor should have a synchronous speed
of 750 r.p.m. Its small cost and the fact
that the mirrors of a mirror drum could
be fitted round the edge of the rotor
should appeal to experimenters contem-
plating television experiments. A similar


(ft
m
ft
RADIOTRONS
are sold in sealed cartons for your protection. Each valve is
thoroughly tested before leaving the factory and comes to
you in perfect condition. Always insist on Radiotrons.
AMALGAMATED
WIRELESS (A/SIA)
LIMITED
47 York Street, Sydney
167-169 Queen St, Melbourne
National Electrical
Engineering Co.
Wellington,
and
Ltd.,
N.Z.
AUSTRALIAN
GENERAL |g| ELECTRIC
LIMITED
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane
Adelaide, Hobart
sadf
(Advertisements of Amalgamated Wireless Valve Co. Pty. Limited.)
experimental motor can be constructed
of a child’s scooter wheel, 3in. diameter,
running between the poles of a horse-
shoe magnet made from an old mains
transformer. Eight wood screws are
screwed in each side of the wheel to
serve as insets, and the coils consist of
41b. of 24 s.w.g. wire.
The sketches show the general arrange'
ment and connections.
A.R.N.
Amateur Chatter.
The writer has erected a new bi-direc-
tional beam aerial for five-metre trans-
mission and reception. This is again a
twin-dipole for end-fire directivity, but the
twisted pair link between the two radiators
was discarded and a more efficient feed
method of Q bars adopted. A 600-ohm
line was coupled to the array, which is
about 50ft. from the ground and rotat-
able. So efficient is this non-resonant
line that, though 80 watts input is used
to the two 35Ts in the final transmitter
stage, no indication can be obtained with
a neon tube held close to the line, show-
ing perfect balance and complete lack of
standing waves. The vast improvement
with the new array was apparent on mak-
ing contact with stations scattered
throughout various outlying Sydney loca-
tions. Signal strength was invariably re-
ported as maximum, and the effect of
the array on the receiver was remarkable.
Stations previously only heard weakly are
audible at much greater strength, even
when using very low power and in badly-
screened positions, further proof of the
writer’s persistent contention that in any
radio application an efficient aerial is
more than two-thirds of the battle.
The new array was in order for the
five-metre test day organised by the
N.S.W. Division of W.I.A. The test
schedules were kept throughout, but so
far no distant reports are recorded. At
4 p.m. the writer resorted to 40 metres
to check up with VK2DN, of Denili-
quin (N.S.W.), who, it will be recalled,
logged VK2NO on a previous test day,
but this time nothing had been heard. An
interesting point, however, is that on the
evening of 28 / 8 / ’37 a ’phone CQ from
VK2NO on five metres was answered by
a station signing a VK4 call on ICW,
but, once again, identification was im-
possible owing to rapid fading, compli-
cated by a local modulated oscillator sta-
tion starting up on the same frequency.
If the VK4 concerned will drop a line
in verification of his call the courtesy
will be much appreciated.
Stations logged (and many worked)
during the test day and that week-end
include VKs 2ABZ, 2ZN, 2ZH, 2VN,
2HZ, 2YE, 2US, 2JE, 2ACB, 2MQ
and 2JU. Others were heard duplexing
and not identified. It will be seen from
this list that quite a few stations are
active on five metres in Sydney district.
When the adaptability of this channel is
considered, it is amazing that more sta-
tions do not make use of it for reliable
cross-city communications, instead of
cluttering up the air on the lower fre-
quency DX bands. There is no need to
go to any great trouble with aerial sys-
tems when the poved Reinartz rotary
can be so easily applied for transmission
and reception.
Listening on the overpopular 20-metre
DX band, a ’phone station was observed
to be making a check on transmission
from another station situated not more
than four miles distant. The one seeking
information on apparent modulation per-
centage was told that “there appears to
be a fair amount of carrier left,” and
the suggestion was made that modulation
should be increased. The idea with many
appears to be that ’phone is de trop
unless the carrier is literally shredded to
pieces. It is far better to use a hefty
carrier and to keep modulation within
reasonable limits than to try to drive a
modest carrier negative with chronic
overmodulation. When that happens
other amateurs in the vicinity writhe in
agony, and broadcasting listeners call
down curses on those who wreck their
programmes. Not all can afford an oscil-
lograph, but a simple modulometer is
easily made, and should be in every sta-
tion where there is a mike.
VK2NO.
Ultra-shorts-Some
Applications
Although investigation of frequencies
of 30 megacycles and higher is still a
rich experimental field, commercial appli-
cations are to-day of great value. A few
of the services in which ultra-short-wave
radio-telephony is nowadays used are
listed:
Civil Aviation. —Between control tower
and mail and passenger ’planes land-
H.H. the Aga Khan consented to be
interviewed before the B.B.C. television
camera during a recent visit to Alex-
andra Palace.
ing and leaving an airport. Also for
instructional purposes.
Army. —Signalling sections ; armored
cars; communication between tanks
and between advance parties and
main companies.
Navy. —Signalling sections ; from ship to
shore ; intercommunication between
vessels ; landing parties; communi-
cation between officers and firing
chambers.
Air Force. —Communication between
’planes and ground and intercom-
munication between ’planes in flight.
Railways. —Communication from driver
to guard on passenger and goods
trains; working parties on tracks to
nearest signal box; survey work;
breakdown gangs; shunting opera-
tions.
Mines. Emergency communication
where men may be isolated by falls
of roof or explosion.
Fire Brigades— Communication between
fire engines and stations for rapid
signalling between strategic positions
at fires.
Shipping. —Communication between ship
and shore ; intercommunication be-
tween ships; docking instructions
from ship to docks; small cargo
vessels.
Surveying. —For all types of survey
work; communication from point
to point.
Police. Intercommunication between
local patrols ; from police stations
to strategic points.
Lighthouses. —lntercommunication with
the mainland and other points.
Speed Trials and Races. —For timing pur-
poses and general communication
between points.
D.B.K.
Shanghai News Broadcasts.
At 8 p.m., Eastern Australian time,
XUBMC, a short-wave radio-telephone
station, may be heard regularly, giving a
news summary of the day’s happenings in
Shanghai, where, just now, plenty is hap-
pening. The frequency of the station is
14,030 kc., near the low end of the ama-
teur 20-metre band. It is apparently the
only short-wave station functioning in
Shanghai, and is operated by an Ameri-
can. In the earlier hours each evening,
he can be heard handling distress and
emergency messages with KAIME in
Manila, Philippine Islands, and VS6AB
in Hong Kong, with traffic directed
through to U.S.A. via the Philippine
station. Despite the fact that XUBMC is
operating under difficult conditions in the
International Settlement, his signal is
usually strong in Australia. Another
case of an amateur stepping into a breach
and doing yeoman service.
VK2NO.
Intermittent Operation.
If a set just won’t work it is a more
or less straightforward job to trace the
trouble, but when a set “comes and
goes” and works, after a fashion, all the
time, the job becomes awkward. Resis-
tors, condensers, valves, volume controls
and tuning gear all have weak spots
which may break down intermittently.
When faced with a stubborn case there
is little to be done with test equipment,
since very often the mere touch of a test
prod either sets the job right or wrong,
but either way alters conditions.
When the trouble is thought to lie in
the valves these should, of course, be
tested, but not all intermittent faults will
show up on a tester. If an R.F. or I.F.
tube is at fault it requires only a small
variation in characteristics to cause a
big change in volume at the output. The
only thing to be done is to replace the
suspected valves with known equivalents
»nd note results. If the sudden changes
Sr operation are accompanied by apparent
changes of tuning the first detector or
converter valve should be suspected. The
same symptom, however, can indicate
faulty tuning, oscillator or I.F. units, and
a D.C. resistance test of all windings may
help. If the coils check satisfactorily
and yet are still suspected—it sometimes
hapens that a coil may be all but burnt
through—a condenser can be discharged
through the windings. If the coil is
sound this will not harm it; if faulty the
surge of current will, more than likely,
completely burn the wire at the faulty
point.
In short- and dual-wave sets the con-
tacts to the rotors of tuning condensers
are most important, and if dry joints or
dirty wiping contacts exist these should
be rectified. Trimmers, too„ should be
overhauled and thoroughly cleaned.
Volume controls are often a source of
trouble, and both composition and wire-
wound types are vulnerable. Dirt find-
ing its way on to the resistance element
causes uneven operation of the control
and, when the arm is turned to a dirty
section, intermittent reception.
Sometimes the audio resistance-
capacity network is at fault. Pigtail con-
densers (especially those used in grid
coupling and A.V.C. line positions) can
be a frequent source of trouble. Symp-
toms include the righting of the trouble
by flicking a light switch somewhere in
the house, thus piling up a high enough
audio voltage to momentarily arc across
the bad connection. This may “cure” the
fault for a time, but sooner or later the
component breaks down and again be-
comes “open.”
If the receiver works normally with
aerial and earth wires removed then
naturally these accessories must be sus-
pect and not the receiver. In these cases
the trouble is nearly always due to
badly-joined wires or to bare lead-ins
touching trees or buildings.
R.H.A.
Radio Trade Spotlight.
A.W.A.’s New Radiola for Cars.
Several difficulties are associated with
the design and manufacture of car radio.
In the new A.W.A. Radiola for cars
high-tension supply is made available
from a vibrator power unit which de-
pends for a high degree of efficiency
upon exact correlation of circuit and com-
ponent design plus vibrator adjustment.
Sensitivity is important because of diffi-
culties with car aerials. Sensitivity limit
is determined by accompanying increase
in receiver noise, together with interfer-
ence from ignition and other electrical
components. A high-gain noise-rejecting
circuit has been developed permitting
extra sensitivity, and the set operates
without suppression resistors in the spark-
plug leads. The control unit incor-
porates tuning and volume controls, and
is housed in an attractive moulding at
the dash panel. The set can be readily
mounted and removed.
For touring cars and those of the older
sedan type the aerial is constructed of
gauze or netting placed under the fabric
roof. In the case of a car with an all-
metal top an external aerial is necessary,
and two types have been developed, one
fixed beneath each running board, the
other installed on top of the car.
The receiver has been tested exten-
sively between Sydney and Melbourne,
giving an excellent performance with re-
liability and quietness in operation.
* * * *
Those interested in British radio com-
ponents will find a big selection to choose
from in the stock of Raymart material
recently received from England by John
Martin, Ltd., 116 Clarence-street, Syd-
ney. Practically everything listed in the
Raymart catalogue is available, and the
prices should suit experimenters and
receiver constructors.
The Question Box.
Full name and address must accompany all
queries; and write legibly to avoid con-
fusion in addresses. Queries are dealt with
by post where the matter may be urgent,
otherwise answers will appear in this column.
I made a home charger for accumulators with
jars containing copper and “bluestone” (posi-
tive) and zinc (negative). Solution was Epsom
salts. It acted well for a few days, then faded
out. What was wrong ?—sB3.
If a charger of this kind must be resorted
to, the aluminium and lead plate electrolytic
type rectifier is a better, although equally messy,
arrangement. Aluminium must be chemically
pure, and the solution saturated ammonium
phosphate.
* * * *
(1)7 wish to build a battery receiver for good
all-wave headphone reception. Is there any
set that will perform in the city like the Wide-
World Two? (2) Where can I get a circuit
diagram of such a receiver? —584.
(1) Yes, the Wide-World Two itself can be
used, with screened coils on Sirufer cores for
the broadcast range. With a suitable aerial
system this would be selective enough to separ-
ate the local stations. (2) See the Islands
Three, described B. 11/8-/’37..
* * * *
In this country district we have a limited
selection of radio receivers. How do a number
of well-known makes (names given) compare?
—585.
Direct comparisons cannot be made here.
Any of the makes advertised in The Bulletin
can be relied upon to fulfil all requirements.


LYSAGWTS
Ml
PROOF
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
LYSAGHT’S
Wire Netting Fencing Wire
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Oar MARKER in every
Roll of Netting .
'
•l,te
m
.
% r"
■
*pfc**- V -i
■ •-\ -.* d
Bpi paPM '
r i., • . ■ ' , ~, -
** ■••-
- .
—v*
SI - "' v .*>k‘ .' ' :'y.* : V* ’
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Brothers & Co., Ltd,
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street, Sydney
SPECIFY "LYSAGHT'S" WIRE. WIRE NETTING. ETC.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
Corriedales.
“Bungaree”: The Corriedale is an in-
bred half-bred —the result of an experi-
ment started in M.L. over half a century
ago to evolve a breed that would com-
bine the wool qualities and hardiness of
the merino with the mutton qualities and
bulk of the British Longwool. Thou-
sands of sheep called Corriedales libel
the name. The writer has seen a multi-
tude of crosses thus described: Merino
with Lincoln, Romney, Leicester, 8.L.,
and even Southdown ; some had wrinkles
and neck folds like merinos.
The Corriedale should appear well-
woolled and evenly balanced with a
hardy constitution. Wool and mutton
qualities should be evenly balanced. The
head should be hornless, broad, well-
woolled, but free from wool-blindness.
Ears may carry black or blue spots, but
brown spots are a defect. The face
should be free from spots. Nostrils should
be wide and preferably black.
A broad, strong neck should be set in
front of a long, level, wide back. Ribs
should be deep and well sprung, brisket
deep and wide. Hindquarters should be
set well apart, deep, broad and well let
down ; legs straight and well apart, with-
out colored patches of wool or hair;
hoofs dark and of fair size.
The Corriedale fleece should combine
evenness of quality with good length,
density and pronounced crimp. Rams’
wool should be of 50’s-54’s spinning
quality, or even a little lower; ewes’,
50’s to 56’s. Climate will affect wool
quality to some extent, but cannot be
blamed for unevenness in fleece. Legs
should be well-woolled to the knees at
least, and the sheep should be well-
covered underneath. The body should be
perfectly plain and devoid of wrinkles.
While the breech wool may be a shade
stronger in quality than the rest of the
fleece, kempy hairs are a blot. The wool
on the head should be carefully examined
for hair.
Corriedales from registered flocks
carry a tattoo mark on one ear. This
may be “C” or “L/MC,” according to
whether the flock is registered with the
Australian Corriedale Sheepbreeders'
Association or with the Australasian
(L.M.) Corriedale Society.
Drought-feeding Sheep.
“Granova”: The wisdom of storing
fodder was shown forcibly this season in
inland N.S.W., as on most properties
hand-feeding was needed from May until
August.
While there was dry grass, sheep fed
6oz. per head per day maintained condi-
tion and will cut heavy fleeces, and eWes
given j\b. per day kept up their milk
supply. To eliminate ,the .waste of ground
feeding, we built troughs out of three
pieces of 4in. x lin. timber, supported by
4-x-2 blocks in the centre and at each
end, and enclosed them in a yard while
the oats were put out. Sheep will eat
their ration of grain in a few minutes.
In July the paddocks became very
bare, and sheep fed on grain only began
to show the effects of lack of roughage.
Silage proved the most economical
fodder for providing bulk. Sheep soon
learned to eat sweet silage, though in
some cases, when very wet and sour, we
had to chaff it. Good results were ob-
tained by feeding silage every day and
6oz. to Boz. of oats every second day.
Animals fed on chaff only did very well,
but the amount of labor involved restricts
this method to mixed farmers with small
flocks of sheep. Self-feeders were use-
less under drought conditions, as the
strongest sheep monopolised the feeding
space.
As usual, some graziers let their sheep
“take a chance,” and are having heavy
losses off-shears during the cold snaps.
In most cases the sheep that died would
have paid for the feeding of the whole
flock.
Under average conditions in inland
N.S.W. it seems necessary to conserve
400 bags of oats and 100 tons of silage
per 1000 grown sheep to be in a really
safe position.
Dairying Progress.
“Ek Dum”: latest dairying figures do
not support the frequent contention that
employees are being driven out of the
industry by modern machinery methods.
“ Hey, me mate's under there!”
“ That's all right, boy —’e Was goin' to be paid off, anyway.”
In 1916 there were 1,747,000 dairy cows
in the Commonwealth, and the value of ;
farm machinery was £1,416,000. The
number of males employed was 43,3671
Last year the number of dairy, cows was
3,437,000, machinery value £4,265,000,
the number of male employees 125,183.
Butter production last year totalled
392,862,0001 b., of ; which all but
22,000,0001 b. was made in factories. '
Victoria is regularly the largest pro-
ducer of factory butter. For the past
three years its . total output was
436,000,0001 b., that of N.S.W. only
363,700,0001 b. '
N. S. Wales should be producing
double the Victorian butter, more es-
pecially as its standard of, factory quality
is so high and its climate less rigorous
in winter than in some of the Victorian
dairying districts. But, on the average,
in N. S. Wales dairying methods are
haphazard. Coastal districts do little
in pasture improvement. Fodder con-
servation is so backward that it was re-
cently officially estimated that the normal
storage is less than enough to give the
cows in districts which need reserves a
very meagre single meal.
Britain still buys 2,200,000 cwt. Danish
butter against 1,694,000 cwt. Australian
butter, and imports of butter from Russia
into Britain are now equal to one-third
the imports from Australia. If we had
the product to sell, a claim for absolute
preference over that supply would be
very hard to resist.
Minerals and Production.
“Silky Bag”: During the first four
months after calving, a cow is frequently
unable to absorb enough lime and phos-
phorus from food to balance the loss of
these elements in the milk. Less than a
quarter of either mineral eaten finds its
way to the bloodstream, and, since the
cow may be losing up to 2oz. of calcium
and Uoz. of phosphorus daily, at least
12oz. to 14oz. of calcium phosphate is
needed in her food.
To cover the loss of mineral in milk,
bone is depleted of its calcium phosphate,
with possible weakening effect. In fact,
the flush is often curtailed in a heavy
milker by the severity of the bone
depletion. With heavy producers, nothing
can be done except to keep going with
ample bonemeal (3oz. to 40z.) daily in
the flush period. By keeping the mineral
ration on after the flush, right through
the dry period, an affected cow is given
a chance ; to build her bone'to full strength
before the next lactation. •
Some Separator Hints.
“Walliew”: See that, the separator
speed - is' even and up to the minimum
rate set by the manufacturers. If it is
too slow there is fat loss in proportion.
If it is over the minimum the only result
will be a richer cream.
Engine belts. must be taut, and the
separator and engine well oiled. , The
rate of inflow of milk is controlled by
the milk float. If the' flow is eased off
it will result in a high testing cream. If
there is any overflow, the .reverse will be
the case. If the flow stops the separat-
ing may partly churn the cream. Vibra-
tion may cause particles of fat to find
their way out with the skim.
Aim at combining milking and separat-
ing. Temperature is the main governing
factor. Milk is most efficiently separated
at the heat at which it leaves the cow
(90 to 100 degrees Fahr.). It will cool
if left for any time. Milk cannot be
efficiently separated below 80 degrees
Fahr. It becomes more viscous the lower
the temperature goes, and the machinery
cannot cope with it; The higher the tem-
perature, ’ the more easily fat particles
come to the surface as cream. If the
milk is not separated while warm, the
inflow should be reduced to about half
its estimated capacity. Separate twice a
day.
Dairymen . can increase the value of
their cream, too, by stirring the separated
cream at once and while the cream is
cooling (65 degrees Fahr. and below),
and restirring it every five or six hours.
Stirring prevents the milky portion from
going to the bottom, becoming acid, and
adding to casein coagulation.
It is a common practice to mix a
warm separated cream with a cool
ripening cream. Even if the blend is
stirred together there are variations in
degrees of sweetness, and this again
affects the casein content. Creams should
be cooled separately before mixing.
Badly-mixed creams mean mottled butter.
Dairy-farm Costs.
■ “Mookau”: It would be interesting to
know how Australian dairy costs com-
pare with the figures recently prepared in
Maoriland by a special committee of the
Farmers’ Union.
A previous estimate by the Dairy In-
dustry Commission showed that in herds
of 31 cows and over expenses were
9.73 d. per pound of butterfat produced
outside capital charges, while in herds
greater than 100 the cost was 6.279 d. The
highest cost' in an efficiently-managed
farm was found to be 10.22 d., and the
lowest 4.89 d., the average being. 7.555 d.
In the Farmers’ report, main average
works costs are set down at 2.473 d., this
including fencing, water, dealing with
noxious weeds, veterinary charges, plant
repairs and power. Depreciation is
placed at 0.639 d., sundries, rates and land
tax 0.735 d., fertilisers at 0.909 d a figure
which must startle some Australians—
and seeds and cultivation 0.348 d.
The total, including stock food, is placed
at 4.093 d., and to this must be added
wages, about 6d., making an average of


Beautiful new Utilities are avail-
able in the new International
line. They give you at once
satisfying appearance and com-
fort, together with useful carrying
capacity for loads that would
overtax the strength of the ordin-
ary motor-car utility.
%
INTE R NATIONAL
mm
m
™ In lines and appearance these
new Internationals are new. Very
new. But these trucks are not
new in appearance alone.
Performance has been improved
as well as appearance. And that,
considering the Australia - wide
reputation for economy already
established by thousands of Inter-
nationals, is an achievement that
should interest every truck buyer
today.
If you have been an International
owner, you have been pleased
with the appearance of your Inter-
nationals on the job. You have
been pleased with the profitable
hauling figures they have put on
your books. And you will be
even more pleased with the ap-
pearance and performance of
these new Internationals.
No matter what your hauling re-
quirements may be, there is a
truck in this new International
Line, built to meet your needs
exactly. Without placing you
under any obligation, we would
like to send you a catalogue of
this New International line. Or
come in to our showrooms and
see these new Internationals for
yourself.
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER COMPANY
OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
(INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA)
BRISBANE SYDNEY MELBOURNE ADELAIDE PERTH
ROBT. NETTLEFOLD PTY. LTD., HOBART, AGENTS FOR TASMANIA
G. 564
Panel vans in
several sizes , Half "Ton up.
Model D-30 with tray body.
1
V/
Any type of
dump body can be
mounted on the new International chassis-
One of the
new Internationals
with livestock body .
2 to 2\.ton
D-35 one of the long
range of new heavy-duty Internationals
asdf
10.09 d. This squares fairly well with
the Dairy Industry Commission’s figures,
since an increased award has added
2.335 d. per pound of fat to wages and
other specified costs have risen id. since
last year.
Illawarra Competitions.
“Marlee”: The £3OO butterfat com-
petition being run by the Illawarra Milk-
ing Shorthorn Society touches all States
except S. Australia, and so far has pro-
duced results which show that Australia’s
own breed has not gone back since
Melba XV. established her world’s
records.
The leaders at present are J. T. Young
and Sons, of the North Coast (N.S.W.).
Their Newstead Favorite IX. has pro-
duced 19,1971 b. milk and 9451 b. butter-
fat in 273 days—the third highest figure
on record for the breed. Newstead Fairy
XIII. has 18,6421 b. milk and 802.61 b.
fat to her credit, and the seven leading
cows in the herd have given a total of
46791 b. fat, an average of 668.421 b.
The N.S.W. State-owned Child Wel-
fare Home herd is second, only 6.511 b.
behind the Youngs’ in fat. A Queens-
lander, W. H. Thompson, with 45701 b.
fat is in third place, and the old-estab-
lished stud of J. R. Knapp and Sons,
Illawarra district (N.S.W.), fourth with
an average of 575.71 b. fat per cow.
In the bull sections, the Youngs are
again on top with Superb of Newstead,
five of whose daughters have a fat record
of 3493.181 b. total, with the progeny of
W. H. Thompson’s Reward of Fairfield
(3488.421 b.) hard on their tails.
Cotton in Queensland.
“Callide”: Modern cotton-raising
began in Queensland in 1923, when the
State Government guaranteed s|d. per
pound for three years. The Queensland
acreage was only about 200 after th®
war, but within a year 82,000 acres were
under crop in Central Queensland. The
industry has since been helped by Com-
monwealth bounty. But it is a desultory
business.
Growers number about 2500 in a
normal year. 54,000 acres were har-
vested last year for 19,200,0001 b.
XT , ,
Next season s cotton is about to be
put in and seed is being distributed. The
Cotton Research Station strongly advises
the use of delinted seed in dry soil. Fuzz
in such ground slows up generation and
sometimes prevents the natural benefit
which comes from isolated storms. De-
linted seed also is easier to space evenly,
since fuzzy seeds tend to bunch together,
Spacing is important. Evenly spaced
seedlings do not fight each other for
moisture and will live when bunched
young plants will die off or languish,
Delinted seed also calls for lighter sow-
ing. A maize planter will put delinted
in effectively with only slight adjustments
—use the six-hole plate with fin. holes.
Seed quantities vary with the land, of
course. Newly-burned country calls for
121 b. delinted or 181 b. fuzzy. Land
already in cultivation 151 b. delinted or
201 b. fuzzy. Delinted is dearer —l|d.
per pound against Id. for fuzzy, de-
livered at nearest railway station to the
grower. But the delinted pays every time
in saving of labor and extra output.
Sweet Potatoes.
“J. Want”: It is always a mystery to
me why something is not done to popu-
larise the Australian sweet potato over-
seas. It is one of the few crops which
will yield heavily enough to allow payable
export. Crops up to 35 tons to the acre
have been known, and it is pretty poor
land which will not give 10 tons if prop-
erly treated. The average is much lower,
but usually sweets are grown anyhow
and anywhere.
If evenly grown white, dry, floury
“potatoes” of moderate weight could be
introduced to the English market they
would have a chance of replacing the
(Continued on next page.)


Here’s a boot that will
keep pace with you
NO MATTER HOW
HARD YOU WORK
27'6
asdf
There’s strength in every line of this Abbey Riding Boot. It’s made
to stand the strain of hard, solid wear without losing shape or
comfort.
Its uppers are made from high-grade Black or Brown Calf Skin, and
its inside is leather-lined throughout.
Price, Black or Brown, 27/6.
“If it’s on Abbey Shoe it’s a good Shoe.”
ABBEY SHOES
316 George Street, 224 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
Telegraphic Address: ‘‘ABBEY BOOTS. SYDNEY.”
IMPORTANT SUBDIVISION SALE
Portion of QUAMBONE Station
In the Favourably Known Coonamble District.
QUAMBONE
For Sale by Public Auction
At the Manchester Unity Hall, Coonamble,
On Wednesday, 15th September, 1937,
At 3 p.m.
29,057 ACRES 29,057 ACRES
Subdivided into 9 grazing areas, comprising 3050 acres
F.H.; 3050 acres F.H.; 3050 acres F.H.; 3676 acres F.H.;
3068 acres F.H.; 2580 acres F.H.; 2351 acres F.H.; 3492
acres F.H.; and 4740 acres,
(All areas are approximate .)
Situated from 25 to 28 miles from Coonamble; all good wool-
growing, fattening and breeding country. Admirably adapted
for fat-lamb raising, and in one of the soundest districts of New
South Wales. Rainfall, 1 7 inches.
Open red and chocolate soil plains, with strips of good, quick-
coming sandy loam. Timber: Myall, Box, Buddah, Wilga, White-
wood and valuable Pine. Grasses: Mitchell, Blue, Umbrella, also
numerous herbages, for which the District is noted.
The land comprises all the well-known Nedgera Creek portion
of Quambone Station.
The above Estate is being subdivided on behalf of the Quambone
Pastoral Co., Ltd., into areas to suit all buyers, and this is an
opportunity of securing a good property in a safe District.
TERMS - - - CASH
Lithographs available on application, and intending purchasers will be
shown over the property on making arrangements with the Auctioneers:
PITT, SON & BADGERY, LTD., SYDNEY,
RUTLEDGE & STOKES, COONAMBLE.
(Auctioneers in conjunction.)
NO MORE TAXATION-RETURN
PROBLEMS
The Primary Producer’s Account Book
costs you £l,
but that includes the free preparation of your Income Tax
Return by
H. Rawson Stevenson,
a taxation expert, who by his thorough knowledge of
taxation methods will see that you claim the maximum
deductions, and thus save yourself many times over the
cost of the book, and endless worry.
Read what one purchaser says:
I am enclosing my cheque for £3/0/6 to : pay for three
copies of the Primary Producer’s Account Book. I showed
the book 1 had already bought from you to three of my
farmer sons, so they are now each wanting one, as it is
something we have been wanting a long time.”
—H.K.R. (Bogan Gate, N.S.W.)
Forward cheque for £1 (plus exchange) to
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO. PTY., LTD.,
252 George Street (Box 252 IBB), Sydney,
and the Primary Producer’s Account Book will be sent you
post free.
TJle'fyxilletiAL
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL SANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq. ; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq. ; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —D. S'. FORBES.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 97
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
ordinary hot potato which sells for a
penny a time on stalls throughout the
country in the depth of winter. I saw
sweets of good quality and flavor sold
in U.S.A. cleaned and in cartons with an
attractive packing.
As sweets can be grown from plantings
almost any time from now till the end
of February, mid-season and late crop-
pings should yield just in time for a
winter export market.
Good varieties are Snow Queen or
Brook’s Gem. They should be started
in small, well-worked and mulched beds,
and cuttings should be picked for plant-
ing out when 12in. to 15in. long. A hun-
dred tubers properly put down and well
fertilised and watered will provide thou-
sands of slips which should be put into
the field in ridges 3ft. apart, a plant every
20in. (24in. is better in many soils) and
set 6in. deep.
Weeds must be kept down carefully,
and the top soil kept at a reasonable tilth
until the vines begin to cover the ground
thoroughly. From that point onwards,
the grower’s troubles are over.
Rye and Barley.
“Stump Jump”: “Ghanam’s” scheme
for rotation of cereal crops, sown-stubble
and fallow for sheep-wheat farms (B.
25/ 8/ ’37) is sound. But why include 25
acres of rye? The grain is not saleable
as yet, and so could only be stored for
drought use. Otherwise its straw —for
thatching or horse collars —is its only
asset.
It would pay to grow another 25 acres
of barley—7s in all —and cut out the
rye. Barley yields as heavily, and the
grain is better quality than rye. Any ex-
cess that cannot be sold to brewers finds
a ready market among dairy-farmers
these days as a warming winter feed.
There is a big future for barley on better-
class land at prices around 3s. 6d. a
bushel (501 b.).
Producer Gas on Farms.
“Wongi”: In the Bruce Rock area
(W.A.) producer gas has been success-
fully used for farm tractors for the past
two years.
The seeding of 1350 acres on one farm
this year worked out at an average power
cost of 9d. for fuel, 2d. for oil per 10
acres. Fallowing is being done at lid.
for six acres.
The estimated saving in fuel is 75 p.c.,
and the loss of power round about 10
p.c. Hauling one ton by truck fitted with
producer gas plant costs Is. for 80 miles.
Two tractors are made ready for work
in five minutes on winter mornings.
Skeleton Weed Eradication.
“Tryit”: We have had sound results
with s.w. eradication (B. 11/7/’37) by
hand-pulling it. It can be done all the
year round.
Patches pulled out two winters ago,
when the ground was soft and at least
9in. of taproot could be obtained, have
failed to appear since. Other patches, in
which odd plants were in seed during the
summer, have grown a few seedlings, but
the original plants are dead. The roots
and plants are burnt on the first possible
opportunity.
Skeleton weed being a perennial, don’t
take the risk of allowing pulled-out
plants to take root again. Heavy stock-
ing helps if started before the flowering
stage. To prevent the plant from seeding
is the surest method of control. This
can be done with a mowing machine
where patches are thick and country
suitable. Sheep put on immediately
afterwards will do the rest.
On cultivated lands where s.w. has a
large root development, eradication is
another matter. Pasture improvement
and lucerne, with consistent heavy stock-
ing, are effective. One paddock with a
few small patches only has been cleaned
up by this method, and without any
additional expense. The pasture improve-
ment was needed in any case.
Hints for the Farm.
“Werrimee”: A kerosene-tin that has
not been cut, except under the screw
cap, is useful for preserving seeds
from moths and weevils from one season
to another. If any eggs or insects are in
the seed when it is poured into the tin
the sup of oil in it and the odor of the
kerosene will destroy them.
“Gumblegubbin”: On many farms
fowls have to hunt hard to find grit. A
dump of pebbly and shelly sand from a
creek or river bed provides the necessary
and gives them a soft rolling ground.
If the home creeks are not sandy, mussel-
shells from the shores of lagoons are
good substitutes.
“Stump Jump”: A twitch to hold a
restive horse’s nose during clipping or
wound-dressing can be made from an
old binder pitman-bar and a thick
greenhide thong. Saw the eye portion
off the bar, round the edges, and drill a
hole through the width at one end. Pass
the thong through the hole and tie to
make a 6in. loop.
“Berk”: No matter how well a sow
will mother a litter of 12 or 14 she will
always care better for eight or nine.
Leading M.L. breeders condemn anything
over nine.
“Corriedale”: Agree with “Mookau’
(B. 25/8/’37) that the zebu does not
make the best beef cross by a long shot,
but it has done the job it was introduced
to do. The zebu itself and its first cross
are immune to tick-fever (redwater), a
tropical disease hanging to the lower-
lying and coastal country. The zebu cross
dodges it and grows into a marketable
bullock.
“C.V.S.”: Can’t agree that control of
blowflies could be helped by protecting
croWs, hawks and eagles. Where ravens
are bad they kill many ewes during lamb-
ing, taking only the eyes, tongue, etc.,
and leaving the carcass to rot while they
search for further delicacies. Protecting
the crow would mean protecting the
raven also, as their similarity renders it
impossible to differentiate except by a
close examination. Protecting hawks may
be worth while, though I have seen
swarms of flies where scavenging kite-
hawks were plentiful.
“Wandi”: The Illawarra (N.S.W.)
Primary Producers’ Assoc, is protesting
against South African maize being
allowed into Australia free of duty. All
the N. S. Wales river valleys from the
Hawkesbury to the Queensland border
are excellent for maize-growing. With the
importations cut out there would be
scope for more farmers and a better deal
for those who are now often struggling
to make ends meet. There is nothing
easier to grow than maize ; and Australian
farmers should be able to supply S’Africa
with shiploads of the grain and still have
abundance for local consumption.
“Zedo”: Lantana, which in N. S. Wales
is sometimes grown as an ornamental
hedge, is reckoned a pretty serious pest
in Queensland, though there is a belief
in some fruit districts that when burnt
off it improves the soil. Some attempt
has been made to control it with the
lantana bug Teleonemia lantance—
which was brought from Fiji. Two lots
of bugs have so far been liberated from
the C.S. and I.R. hatcheries —one in
Grafton (N.S.W.) in October, 1936 ; the
other at Atherton (N.Q.) in November.
But in the field they disappeared, and it
yet has to be demonstrated that they will
thrive like the cactoblastis.
“Trepex”: Every year we hear com-
plaints of the “get-up” of our wool, and
it is the classer who has to carry the
blame. Often he has to do his best with
all sorts of makeshift arrangements.
One of the worst faults is the lighting.
A couple of planks or a sheet of iron
knocked out of the side of the shed is
often expected to give enough light to a
woolclasser, who, maybe, has to detect
an 80’s from a 70’s fleece, No man can
properly assess lengths, quality and con-
dition with a glare in his face. Overhead
light, properly placed, is needed.


mil
STAMINA
and
STRENGTH!
TS
=%?
:
i»£
. 4
s
WM
SM
25
dS
=29
95 ■ •
ptr
; tt
N
r-^I
ffip
■ •Vi, ...
.-=5
2s<3%fc,\V
mis
ai
IKSSM
m
m
IT*
■:/j
m
mi
Ws!i
MK4B
few
a
Sf
§
H
Va»&
■mm
«w»
■ / ,
7^
//
iiSX
ORIGINAL
M
OATMEAL
STO U T
"<f/M To'ee
Brewed from the finest
malted oats.
TOOHEYS, LTD., STANDARD BREWERY, SYDNEY.
Agents:
VlCTORlA—Goldsbrough, Mort & Co., Ltd., Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND —Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., Brisbane.
CENTRAL Q’LAND: Dalgety & Co., Ltd., Rockhampton.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA—DaIgety & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA—MiIne & Co., Perth.
TASMANIA—Ferguson & Co. Pty., Ltd., Hobart.
Northern Agencies Pty., Ltd., Launceston.


Corns Sentenced to Death.
Corns have worried you—now worry them:
although “worry” is hardly the word, for
A’CORN SILK does not trifle with corns, but
ruthlessly kills them. How comfortable your
feet feel after A’CORN SILK has removed
all your soft or hard corns—a 6d. packet will
do this for you without pain or inconvenience.
Corns are killed while you sleep—a matter of
a few hours. Chemists sell A’CORN SILK at
6d. per packet. Packed by Felton, Grimwade
and Duerdins, Ltd., Melbourne.
Short Story
Writing
tyree Lance
journalism
Learn and Earn The most thorough anrt practical
in Spare Time ! Course o* Training ever written!
Instruction and Constructive Criticism by Practical
Journalists and Short Story Writers . . . You learn
how to Wiite and how to sell your stories and articles.
Full details sent on application to
I.C.S. School of Journalism
140 Elizabeth Street, Sydney '
The Woman’s M’rror
It deals with every subject of
interest to women.
PRICE 3d.
On Sale Every Friday .
Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be cpnfined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Young lady (Q’land), bright and intelligent,
wants position as companion.—6974.
Lady, Sydney, typist, own machine, used to
handling manuscripts, wants typing work. —
6913.
To exchange postage stamps all countries,
especially South Sea Islands. —6964.
To buy second-hand sets of early volumes
of Historical Records of N. S. Wales. —6955.
To buy colored prints of early Sydney and
Bigge’s Reports on N.S.W. —6980.
Words of verse beginning: —
Should you be riding a rough one,
There’s sure to be perched on the rails
Of the stockyard some grizzled old tough one
Whose flow of advice never fails.
Words of verse ending with the line, “You
have run your race, poor Summer, and have
lost”; also, another in the play “The Sign of
the Cross,” beginning “There was once a noble
Marquise.”—6947.
x Information Sought.
In i>Ui-y?TiN reminiscences of old-time boxers
it is stated that Val Quirk fought Tim Murphy
for the Victorian amateur middleweight cham-
pionship. Didn’t he fight Mclnerney for the
welterweight tide? —6982.
Quirk beat Murphy (who fought under the
name of Tim Draffin) in the 1894 Victorian
amateur championships, and, two nights later,
beat Tim Mclnerney in the final of a lOst. 101b.
competition. Mclnerney was almost three
pounds overweight the night Quirk (who fought
under the name of Valentine) met Murphy, and
his contest with Quirk was postponed two
nights to give Mclnerney a chance to make the
poundage. The middleweight limit (both
amateur and professional) is list. 61b., ana the
welterweight lOst. 71b.
* * * *
(1) Are there any books on sale that teach
the Jem Mace and Larry Foley style of boxing?
(2) Did Dan Creedon ever hold the world’s
middleweight championship ? —6902.
(1) The Mace style of boxing, employing an
almost upright stance and using only straight
punches, is generally considered the best of all
time, but both Mace and Foley taught their
pupils personally, and their system of instruc-
tion was never put in book form. (2) Dan
Creedon beat Tut Ryan for the Australian
middleweight championship in 1891, and later
went to America. Creedon was never middle-
weight champion of the world.
* # * *
In playing five hundred, can the joker be used
to follow any suit ? —6969.
With trumps, the joker is the master trump
and no more. With no trumps the joker be-
comes, when led, the highest card of the suit
the leader elects it to represent. The leader
of it cannot nominate it for a suit he .has re-
nounced. If he plays it—not being the leader —
to the lead of a suit which he has previously
renounced, it has no winning value.
* * * *
Sizes of rifle targets used by the Defence
Dept., with dimensions of aiming-mark, bull’s-
eye, inner, magpie and outer? —6858.
The targets in use by the Defence Dept, are:
Small tin-hat target, 4ft. by 4ft., aiming-mark
black semicircle, diameter 14in., bull’s-eye 9in.,
inner 18in., magpie 36in., outer 48in. Large
tin-hat target, 6ft. by 6ft., aiming-mark black
circle, diameter 24in., bull’s-eye 18in., inner
36in., magpie 48in., outer 72in. Large snap-
shooting target, diameter 22in., upper half
black, lower half ochre. Disk target, approx,
diameter 12in.
* * * *
Some facts about the Ensign airliners used by
Imperial Airways, Ltd. ?- —6920.
Overall length 114ft, overall height 23ft. 6in.;
equipped with four moderately supercharged
Armstrong-Siddeley Tiger IX engines which
provide a maximum power of 810 h.p. at
2450 r.p.m. at 7000ft., and 880 h.p. at 2375
r.p.m. for “take-off”; maximum designed speed
is 200 m.p.h. at 7000ft.; cruising speed is 165
m.p.h.; minimum flying speed is 71 m.p.h.
Rate of climb at sea level is about 900ft. per
min.; the ceiling, fully loaded, is 20sec.; weight
(empty) 27,5001b., weight (loaded) 46,5001b.
* * * *
Each day an aeroplane passes over Gresford
{N.S.W.) at about 10 a.m. going to Sydney and
at about 2 p.m. going to Brisbane. What
machine is this? Can you give some particu-
lars as to speed, weight, etc., and number of
passengers carried ? —6819.
The machine is the Douglas D.C. airliner
owned by Airlines of Australia, Ltd., flying on
the route Sydney-Brisbane: span 85ft., length
62ft., all-up weight 18,5601b., powered with two
Wright Cyclone engines each 750 h.p., maxi-
mum speed 212 m.p.h., cruising speed 180
m.p.h. at 1000ft. Carries two pilots and 14
passengers.
* * * #
Why is it advisable to wind a gramophone
with the motor running? —6949.
With the motor running there is less tendency
to break the spring, there being a certain
amount of give owing to the gradual release of
the spring. When the motor is stationary there
is very little give, and unless the machine is
wound slowly during the last few turns the
shock may break the spring.
* * * *
To whose memory is the Menin Gate
memorial dedicated ?-y-69Th.
It bears an inscription “To the armies of the
British Empire who stood here [Ypres] from
1914-1918, and to those of their dead who have
no known grave.” The names of 56,000 officers
and men are incised on stone panels. Of the
names, 6160 are those of members of the Aus-
tralian forces.
* * * *
[ have heard the Island of Niuafoou, in
the Tongan group, referred to as “Tin Can
Island.’’ How did it obtain this nickname? —
6950.
The name was derived from the method em-
ployed in dispatching and delivering mails to
and from the island. Owing to its inaccessi-
bility, landing was almost impossible except in
the calmest of weathers. About 1909 the
practice of sending out and bringing in the mail
by placing it in a tin can was commenced.
The tin was tied to a buoyant stick and car-
ried by a swimmer to or from the steamer.
In 1913, a native was attacked by a shark, since
when the can containing the mail, has been car-
ried in canoes. These covers are very popular
among stamp collectors.
* * * *
From what countries did Australia import
vacuum cleaners for use in the household during
1934-35 and 1935-36, and number and value
of imports from the different countries? —6931.
1934-35: United Kingdom, 6223, valued at
£29,972; Canada, 973, £2665; other British
countries, 3, £42; Germany, 126, £982; Sweden,
9915, £47,852; U.S.A., 3207, £13,785; other
foreign countries, 73, £366. 1935-36: United
Kingdom, 12,884, £53,199; Canada, 1092,
£2453; Germany, 233, £970; Sweden, 18,786,
£103,067; U.S.A.. 6264,’£21,628 ; other foreign
countries, 52, £2ll.
* * * *
What items did Australia export to the
Netherlands during 1935-36, and their value?—
6912.
Fresh fruits £22,333, meats £l6lß, flour £20,108,
wheat £8867, calfskins £24,772, cattleskins £458,
sheepskins £3622, greasy wool £997,389, scoured
wool £61,444, unrefined tallow £5573, precious
stones £16,860, machinery £13,760, all other
articles £23,834.
* * *
Where is tuition for X-ray technicians avail-
able ? Approximate period of training? Cost?
—6822.
Tuition for X-ray technicians is given jointly
by the Australian and N.Z. Association of
Radiology and the Sydney University Extension
Board. The conjoint course consists of three
terms of lectures, demonstrations and practical
work, comprising two nights of two hours each
for 10 weeks in each term. The course covers
theoretical and practical sides of a number of
subjects, and concludes with examinations. The
1936-37 course has just been completed. As
the attendance is not such as to justify com-
mencing a fresh course each year, it is im-
probable that the next one will commence before
1939. Cost is five guineas per term.
* VI- * *
How does the pension allotted to war nurses
apply ? Does earned income alter its applica-
tion ? —6709.
When assessing the war pension payable to
an ex-nurse on account of incapacity attributable
to her service in the forces, her actual earnings
are disregarded and the pension is assessed in
accordance with the degree of incapacity in the
general labor market. A service pension can be
paid to a nurse who embarked for active ser-
vice when she is over the age of 55 or when
she is permanently unemployable, but a service
pension cannot be paid at such rate as will
bring the income of the pensioner to over
£3 3s. per fortnight from all sources.
* * * *
(1) On what date was the Woollahra
(N.S.W.) by-election ? (2) Primary votes cast
for each candidate, and how were the prefer-
ences distributed? —6923. •
(1) June 26, 1937. (2) G. B. Grant (U.A.P.)
6686, H. H. Mason (Independent U.A.P.) 6173,
G. R. W. McDonald (Independent U.A.P.)
1595. Of McDonald’s second preferences 1158,
or 72.5 p.c., were allocated to Mason, and
437 to Grant. The final result was thus: Mason
7331, Grant 7123; majority for Mason 208.
There were 584 informal ballot papers, and
3595 electors failed to vote.
*
Cost of maintenance of neglected and refor-
matory children in Victoria, and how are the
children distributed ? —6935.
The expenditure by the State for the main-
tenance of neglected children amounted in 1935
to £240,468, and that for reformatory school-
children to £4188; the expenses of administra-
tion amounted to £15,540, making a total gross
expenditure of £260,196. A sum of £8315 was
received from parents for maintenance, and of
£267 from other -sources, making the net ex-
penditure £251,614. The number of neglected
children under supervision on December 31,
1935, was 5488; of this total 2409 were main-
tained in foster homes, 310 were in Govern-
ment receiving depots, 1348 were in other in-
stitutions, 361 were at service earning their own
living, 22 were in hospitals and 1038 were with
relatives and others at no cost to the State.
The number of reformatory wards under super-
vision at the same date was 196. Of this
number, 87 were maintained in private schools,
23 were in service earning their own living
and 86 were with relatives at no cost to the
State
* * * *
What types of Queensland timbers have bark
suitable for tanning, and in what districts are
they to be found? —6942.
The best tan barks in Queensland are obtained
from the green or ferny wattles ( Acacia decur-
rens and vars.), which occur chiefly in the
Stanthorpe district and along the N.S.W.
border. All the wattles ( Acacia sp .) have
tannin in the barks in varying quantities. The
kino which exudes from the bloodwoods (Euca-
lyptus sp.) contains about 80 per cent, tannin.
The bark of the ironbarks also carries tannin
in fair quantities. The red and black mangroves
yield a very red tannin; these are mostly obtain-
able north of Maryborough.
* * * *
What type of mineral is chiastolite, what is
its use, and where is it found? —6957.
Chiastolites are a variety of andalusite, and
are specially characteristic of clay-slates near
a contact with granite. The elongated prismatic
crystals enclose symmetrically-arranged wedges
of carbonaceous material, and in cross-section
show a black cross on a greyish ground.
Cross-sections of such crystals are polished and
worn as amulets or charms. Crystals of a size
suitable for this purpose are found in Brittany
and the Pyrenees, while still larger specimens
have been found in nor’-eastern S. Australia.
* * * *
(1) What chance would a young Australian
(22) have of securing manual work in M.L.?
(2) Second-class fare from Australia ? (3) Any
chance of working a passage? —6841.
(1) No better than in Australia. (2) Sydney
to Wellington or Auckland £9 to £lO, according
to class of ship. (3) Very slight.
* * * *
Particulars of Hallowe'en ? —6786.
The eve of All Saints’ Day (Nov. 1), more
associated with ancient superstitions than with
the Christian feast from which it takes its name.
It was a druidical festival, mainly noted for
the belief that witches and ghosts were abroad
at this time. The superstition of lighting bon-
fires on this night still survives in _ many dis-
tricts. See Burns’s poem “Hallowe’en.”
* * * *
Formula for making a permanent varnish for
gun-barrels? —693B.
Dissolve one ounce of shellac and two
drachms of dragon’s blood in a quart of methy-
lated spirits and filter the solution through blot-
ting-paper into a bottle, which must be kept
tightly corked. After the varnish has been
applied, let it dry thoroughly on the barrel and
then rub with chamois leather vigorously so as
to render it smooth and glossy.
* * * *
What are the qualifications of a manager of
a N.S.W. wheat silo ? Is the position per-
manent? Salary? To whom should appli-
cants apply? —6B24.
Agents-in-charge of country grain elevators
are appointed for the wheat-receiving season
only, eight to ten weeks, from November to
January. They are required to enter into an
agreement undertaking not to interest them-
selves in any business in connection with wheat
whilst employed as agent. For the 1936-37
season agents were paid £3 10s. per week, with
commission at the rate of 9s. per 1000 bushels
for the first 100,000 bushels received, Bs. per
1000 bushels for the second 100,000 bushels re-
ceived and 6s. per 1000 bushels for all wheat
received in excess of 200,000 bushels. Qualifi-
cation is experience in the commercial hand-
ling of wheat, and appointments are subject to
the Returned Soldiers’ Preference Act. Applica-
tions should be made in writing to the Wheat
Commissioner and Manager, Government Grain
Elevators, Box 36A, G.P.0., Sydney, and should
be supported with copies of references covering
applicant’s experience. Appointments are
usually made about October in each year.
% % * *
Four years ago I bought some high-quality
gladioli bulbs. The first year the flowers were
excellent; since then they have deteriorated.
Is it because they have not been dug up every
year and replanted, or is it usual for the flowers
to fail? —6104.
Leaving them in the ground is responsible;
each bulb makes corms which attach to the
parent bulb and rob it of vitality. Dig them
up and divide them. Reset the large bulbs and
place all the small corms in another bed con-
taining a sprinkling Of sand. After next year
the corms will bloom and be ready to replace
the worn-out stock bulbs.
* * * *
Particulars concerning a tree called Indian
almond, which grows in the tropical areas of
Australia? —6485.
A large deciduous tree growing to a height
of 80ft., with branches spreading in horizon-
tal whorls. It yields a dark-colored substance
known in the West Indies as Indian almond-
gum. The bark and leaves are astringent and
contain tannin. In the Indies the leaves are
mixed with iron salts to form a black pigment
with which the natives color their teeth. The
seeds are like almonds in shape and whiteness,
and are palatable and nutritious. The kernels
yield a valuable oil similar to almond oil, but
a little more deeply colored. The tree is orna-
mental, with a brown, waved, heavy, coarse-
grained timber. It grows near the coast, and
its fruits are specially adapted for dispersal
by ocean currents owing to the layer of fibre
between seed and ouler coat.
* * * *
(1) Brief biography of Walt Whitman? (2)
W. B. Yeats ? —6963,
(1) Born at Huntington, Long Island, Whit-
man began work in a printing office, and after
a varied career became editor of the Brooklyn
“Eagle” in 1846. He served as a nurse in the
Federal Army during the American Civil War,
an experience which is reflected in Drum Taps.
His greatest work, Leaves of Grass, was pub-
lished in 1855. He retired to New Jersey after
the war and died in 1892. (2) Yeats, born in
Dublin, 1865, and educated at Godolphm
School, Hammersmith, and Erasmus Smith
School, Dublin, studied art for three years, but
finally rejected it for literature. He took a
prominent part in the revival of Irish drama at
the beginning of this century, and was awarded
the Nobel Prize for literature in 1923.
Brief Answers.
T.R.S.: The decision was announced in The
Bulletin, August 25, 1937. The judges having
reported that none of the entries submitted
for the S. H. Prior Memorial Prize, 1937,
reaches a standard sufficiently high to warrant
an award, the trustees have decided to transfer
the amount, £IOO, to next year’s competition,
the prize for which will thus become £2OO
L.M.F.: Min. roulette wheels obtainable from
Mick Simmons, Haymarket, Sydney; price
£4 15s K. 8.: Women were made eligible
for the V.C. in 1920; no award has yet been
made... .J.L.: (1) and (2) Consult local
chemist. (3) Sulphide preparations may cause
dermatitis or other skin troubles. (4) and (5)
N 0... .F.E.L.: Send them to Laseron, 4 Bond-
street, Sydney... .A. 5.8.: The Schick Shaver
will shortly be obtainable from Baker, 3 Hunter-
street, Sydney; price £6 to £9 L.R.: Aus-
tralian Year-Book was last published in 1934.
...N.R.: Columbia Gramophones, Parra-
matta-road, Homebush (N.S.W.), D. Davis
and Cos., 426 George-street, Sydney, and Gramo-
phone Cos., Railway-parade, Erskineville
(N.5.W.)... .C.C.: European populations of
South African provinces are: Cape 749,231,
Natal 177,449, Transvaal 696,120, Orange Free
State 205,375, South-West Protectorate 24,115.
R.C.: Elsa Stralia is the daughter of Hugo
Fischer, baritone, and was born at Adelaide.
She was educated at the Marshall Hall Con-
servatoire, Melbourne, and made her debut on
the concert platform under the name of Elsa
Fischer... ..1.5.: From March, 1918, to the
end of the war 55.4 p.c. of American troops
were carried in British ships, 42.15 p.c. in
American and 2.45 p.c. in French and Italian.
.... W.C.: Kalgoorlie “Miner” (morning daily),
Hannan-street, Kalgoorlie... .F.M.F.: Various
extravagant theories have been formulated based
on Great Pyramid measurements, reading into
these a prophetic significance, but no Egyptolo-
gist or mathematician of any standing supports
such views. Know of no books on the subject
on sale in Australia... .P.F.: Immaterial by
whom they are opened, the essential require-
ment being that they are opened in the presence
of the committee... .8.C.8.: Try second-hand
booksellers.,. .F.J.G.: American literary agents,
Curtis Brown, 18 East 48th-street, New York.
T.B.M.: Esdaile, 42 Hunter-street, Sydney,
will supply sundials and information relating
to their erection... .R.F.: (1) Cornwall was
created a duchy by Edward 111. for his eldest
son, 1337. The receipts from the duchy, which
owns various properties throughout England, go
to the Prince of Wales, or, alternatively, to the
reigning king. (2) Probably as the most con-
venient numbers or merely as a whim of the in-
ventor... .L. A.: Cannot trace Nullawarra;
nearest is Nullawar, meaning “opossum grass.”
. ...G.G.: Cannot reprint article and cannot
undertake such a search H.T.: English and
French town trade-name, originally a turner
or lathe-worker J.A.CiK.: (1) Coin is a
James 11. 3d. or 6d. Value in good condition
Is. (2) lacobvs is the Latin form of James
W.J.N.: The Lord Chief Justice of England is
Lord Hewart. He receives £BOOO p.a
N.O.McM.: C. K. Shorter edited the “Illus-
trated London News,” 1891-1900; the “Sketch,”
1893-1900; founded the “Sphere” and the
“Tatler,” 1900, and edited those two papers
until his death, 1926... .8.R.D.: 1935-36, Tas-
manian hop fields yielded 2,163,6181 b
E.J.8.: Book has no collector value J.C.E.:
Gramophone records made by Amato include
no solos. He has been recorded with Caruso,
Tetrazzini, Journet, Bada and Jacoby in the
sextet from “Lucia,” price 18s., duty 25.. in
duets with Journet from Gounod’s “Faust,” with
Matzenaner from “La Favorita,” with Farrar
from “Carmen,” with Setti from “Otello” and
with Farrar from “II Segreto di Sqsanna”—all
125., duty 2s. None of these is obtainable in Aus-
tralia, but could be obtained from England by
Alisons, 391 George-street, Sydney E.M.C.:
A copy of the will may be obtained by writing
to Somerset House, London. Cost depends on
length. Usual charge is 6d. a folio (90 words)
for an ordinary copy, and 9d. a folio for a
certified copy, which can be produced and read
in any court of law. Write to the Principal
Registrar, Somerset House, London, giving full
particulars and enclosing stamps for a reply.
A.W.: (1) Cannot name any solicitor or
financial agent who would be prepared to take
up the matter on the terms suggested. You
might consult the Legal Aid Office, Queen’s-
square, Sydney. (2) U.S.A. Consulate, Bank
of N. S. Wales Building, 7 Wynyard-street,
Sydney. Tel., 86730. Form of address, “Dear
Sir” C.A.: The Forrest Ministry, which
assumed office on December 29, 1890, remained
in power until February 15, 1901; duration of
office, 10 years one month 17 days C.M.P.:
John Dunn, one of the Gardiner gang of
bushrangers, was captured at Marthaguy Creek,
below Dubbo, by Constable James A. G. Mc-
Hale, assisted by Senior-constable Elliott and
Constable Hawthorn. Dunn shot McHale in
the leg, and was himself wounded; he was after-
wards tried and hanged at Darlinghurst, De-
cember 24, 1865... .E.F.: The law of primo-
geniture was done away with in N.S.W. by Act
26, Victoria, No. 20, assented to July 21, 1863.
. ...A.J.P.: The 1914 V.R.C. Grand National
Steeplechase resulted: Zephuron (lOst. lib.) 1,
United Kingdom (12.0) 2, Coradjill (9.10) 3.
Time 6min. 22sec. The 1914 V.R.C. Grand
National Hurdle resulted: Clontarf (11.4) 1,
Lord Grey (9.12) 2, Bill Brandon (9.4) 3. Time
5.47-f... .W.M.: See report by David Rivett, ot
the C.S. and 1.R., “Oil Production from Coal
Viewed from an Australian Standpoint”; Is.,
obtainable from the C’wealth Govt. Printer,
Canberra... .W.W.: Results of the recent
Aviation and Marketing referendums were:
Aviation, for 1,924,946, against 1,669,062, in-
formal 150,355; marketing, for 1,259,808,
against 2,214,388, informal 270,167. Both pro-
posals were rejected. Although for the Com-
monwealth as a whole there was a majority
favoring the aviation proposals, only two States
(Victoria and Queensland) recorded affirmative
majorities. The marketing proposals were nega-
tived in every State... .G.McI.: Ex-service
women should wear Jubilee and Coronation
medals on the left of their service medals and
other decorations. The bow effect of the
ribbon is significant only to women without
service medals... .(Many others mailed.)


KNEE STIFF AS A
POKER
Middle-aged Man Who
Could Hardly Walk
He thought he had injured his knee in some
way and that it needed massage and treatment,
but he got no relief. The truth was that he
was sutfering from uric acid in the joint. Nov/
he tells how Kruschen Salts have made him
walk as well as ever, although he is already
middle-aged:
“A few years ago I developed a very sore
knee joint and it stiffened up. I had treat-
ment for about 3 months. I could hardly walk,
it was so sore and painful. I also had it X-rayed
but there appeared to be nothing wrong with
the knee. I heard of Kruschen Salts, so I got
a bottle. After I had taken a portion of the
bottle the stiffness left me, so I now take
Kruschen every morning, and can walk 12 or
14 miles a day. I am middle-aged.”—A.M.
Kruschen Salts clear your blood of the mis-
chievous uric acid which settles in your joints
and muscles, causing them to swell, grow stiff
and unbearably painful. And when poisonous
uric acid goes, there is no doubt about these
old rheumatic aches going, too!
FLV SBCgTS.
991
'aXIHAY
asdf
BLUE,
18'9
Post, 2/- N.S.W.; 3/0 Q’land and Vic.
Made in Fight, Cool, yet Strong Netting
with Substantial Fringe.
KINGFIStiCR
STATION
STOCK WHIPS-
1 KANGAROO RIGHT■ THROO
AND
STEEL LINED HANDLES.
No. B—lo-plait Handle, 7ft. x 10-plait
Thong . 19/6
No. BA 10-p!ait Handle, Bft. x 10-plait
Thong 21/-
Etc.
Tost, 1/3 N.S.W.; 2/- Q’land and Vic.
WRITE FOR SADDLERY CATALOGUE.
WALTHER it STEVENSON ltd.
59S CEOBCE ST.SYDNEY-
ront/
corflf ill
i
'(**
—a*
m
K
KM
fto GEORGE VX
•
One hundred and twenty years ago, when George 111. was
King, before even the name Australia was recognised,
the Bank of New South Wales commenced to serve the
people of this continent.
Through this long period of continually changing con-
ditions, this Bank has always been a stabilising influence,
constantly extending its services to meet the expanding
needs of the rapidly growing nation.
The wealth of experience this Bank has gained in its
120 years’ service to the people of Australia is available
to everyone who desires advice on any financial problem.
There is no problem too small or too large for the
consideration of the trained officers of the Bank of New
South Wales.
'd4i.
'A ofASJouM^
"1
ESTABLISHED I 8 t 7
The First Bank in Australia
sadf
266F.1937
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped. \
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should
be addressed to the Editor, not to members of the staff personally.
J.McL.: Rocky verse, and the theme is an
invidious one C.J.R.: Might do for a church
paper A.W.: You can’t come in here
C.P.L.: Even brevity may be overdone....
J.McG.: No good. Yes, there’s plenty of
modern so-called verse “somewhat slack of
metre, a sort of colorful, ejaculated prose,”
but we doubt if you’d get any benefit from it.
E.D.: Hardly worth even 10 lines
L.R.L.: Pointless E.M.F.: From the evi-
dence available we should guess' your age as
nine or ten .... J.S.: Can’t profess much interest
in translations of Chinese poetry... .M.L.L.:
Haven’t a corner for verse in that vein....
J.E.: Read plenty of good poetry and you
may see print some day L.P.: A good peg
for a rhyme poorly handled... .N.T.: Too
trivial A.D.: It falls short R.J.: They
don’t appeal to us, but don’t be discouraged.
E.G.: No perch here for “The Caged Bird.”
... .0.M.G.: Missed R. A.: Not taken
with the female shoplifter who says “I’ll have
your liver, you swivel-eyed cow”... .E.M.: Try
a daily... .J.T.8.: “The Magic Stick” failed
to charm... .T.W.S.: Might make a par
E.M.E.: It’s going back... .H.H.: “The
Drunkard’s Farewell” so affected us that we
had to hurry out for a stiff nip L.L.:
Heavy... .J.M.: You need practice... .G.F.:
“The Dream Home” was a nightmare....
B.B.I.: Chances for “Midnight” look very
black... .A.F.F.: Not for us... .J.E.W.:
You’ve a lot to learn K.L.S.: “The Shep-
herd’s Ghost” haunts the w.p.b R.H.: That
yarn was old 10 years ago C.A.J.T.: Off
our beat....J.M.S.: Another borderliner....
R.R.: Cut it and try Smoke-oh R.M.:
“Method Three” failed to work J.M.H.:
"The Frock” won’t fit here; try elsewhere....
8.G.: “The Last Lamp” went out J.F.: No
reception for “The Bailiff’s Welcome” C.M :
Possibilities badly handled 0.H.L.: Nothing
to it. . ..WJ.S.: Six lines would have sufficed
ior that yarn. ...5.8.: “A ‘Dago’ Homeward
Bounder is homeward-bound M.RJ.:
You re only turning over old ground....
T.H.Y.: A few laughs, but too artificial
R. 8.1.: “Beers and Tears” reduced us to both.
—A.C.McK.: A weak imitation of O. Henry.
. ...H.G.: Can’t see the possibilities in.training
spiders with whisky P.H.: Story of a silent
wife who had to listen to husband’s ceaseless
yapping is stretching it too far F.G R :
Bellowdrammer for children F.R.F.: No use
for unexplained ghosts H.A.H.: No time for
the chap, who was all wound up through turn-
ing a windlass J.H.: Amateurish, but you
show promise M.L.: Covered a few genera-
tions of ferrymen, but you forgot Noah
Z.Z.: Stale H.S.: Fair yarn, but ends
weakly K.T.: “There comes a time in the
lives of all men when the dying fires of youth
name forth in one last desperate attempt to
live before they finally splutter and die.” After
the eighth glass, perhaps GJ.D.: Might
work elsewhere E.H.: An essay on Pope’s
parodies of himself. Out! Tyrol: We refuse
to read a microscopic scrawl written on both
sides of ledger leaves F.S.: Nearly cot Dast
••- R.W.: That oldster is still on his travels'
J.S.M.: Con Drew handles that sort of
thing better A.C.: The gentleman conduct-
ing an affair with his housekeeper not for us. I
I.N.D.: Close, but not quite what we want.
. ...R.T.W.: No interest in “The Timeless!
Radio” V.G.: Hope the girl who spent the \
first night of her honeymoon in a buckboard
“outspanned by the wayside” didn’t go home to
ma E.S.: Sonnets as a rule are somewhat
stodgy fare; yours are no exception... .P.K.:
“Enclosed you will find three poems.” We
didn’t E.V.F.: You’ve got the metre of;
Gray’s “Elegy” all right. Now try to find some-
thing to say that’s worth saying U.R.T.:
Even as a two-up poem it falls short A.H.:
If at 60 you don’t read and never have read
real poetry, no definition of what constitutes it
will be of any help to you. Still, we agree with j
you that good verse should be, first of all, in- |
telligible... .F.M.: As full of bathos as a bin:
is full of bottles.
. j
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
J.W.G.: The one-legged swagman and his
freakish dog are limping home A. 5.8.: The
abos. look like strays from Zululand W.H.:
Take more time over drawings, and make gags
more crisp C.C.: A kindergarten pupil could
beat that effort... .W.N.: Tame head studies
and an outworn jest G.F.: Short cuts of
that description will only carry you to a dead-
end F. 8.: A humorless pair of badly-drawn
slatterns... .8.P.: Attempt to untangle that
mass of disorderly lines gave us eyestrain
H.H.: No need to tell us it was “a first, un-
aided effort”... .J.D.: You’re better with the
pen than the brush A.M.: Is it a submarine
or a whale?... .N.T.: The bruiser didn’t last
the first round... .R.H.M.: Can’t see the
characters for the inscribed balloons tied to
their lips... .G.L.: Both the idea and the pre-
sentation are too muddled... .J.T.: Have seen
that drunk asleep on his doorstep too many
times... .R.G.F.: Drawing not bad, but the gag
is a burden... .C. 8.: Look us up when you
have completed your studies,.. .E.P.: An ugly
mass of blots, smudges and jagged lines....
L.F.D.: You belong to a school of hopeless
scratchers and your humor lacks freshness j
T.M.: Well enough done, but why use another
artist’s characters? A.W.8.: We heard that j
wheeze early in the Boer War J.W.: Ana-
tomical details all wrong, and you have
learned nothing about perspective R.S.:
It might win a prize from a children’s paper.
M.C.: Study from life L.R.: That
young man’s spring-fancy gag never fails to
arrive about September A.H.8.: Might
have passed with more action in the picture.
F.C.: Don’t remember whether it is any
better than the one you sent a year ago, but
the other one could hardly have been worse.
. ...W.S.F.: So dead we suspect it arrived in j
a hearse.. . .C.H.: Caricatures need to be of
reasonably well-known people, and the likeness
must be vouched for by somebody well known
to u5....N.5.: Farmer-and-pigsty gag is very!
ancient.
A MIXED GRILL.
“I”: “Australia must not give up the
task of lifting the Davis Cup. The
nation demands that success be attained.”
I lifted that from Sydney “Sun”—and
this from “S. M. Herald”: “With lips
compressed until blood came under the
strain of intense concentration and now
probably oblivious to all that was about
him, Ferrier took his stance, and putted.
The ball followed its allotted course.”
And presumably the earth moved on.
❖ * * *
“Hecke”: My record as a long-distance
reader of The Bulletin (B. 18/8/’37)
should keep me out of the “also-ran”
class. I have never missed buying a
copy since the first issue. Furthermore,
during the war years I sent six copies
weekly to friends at the front. Unfor-
tunately they were so often comman-
deered in transit that I had to devise
means of keeping the red cover out of
sight.
* * * *
Casey says that, as member for Corio,
he is trying to have the Geelong post
office altered ; but, as Treasurer, he has
to impress on the P.M.G. the need for
keeping expenditure low. Sounds like a
Jekyll-and-Hyde afterthought. Corio
probably prefers post-office improve-
ments in hand to such a Treasurer in
doubtful prospect.
* * * iS
“Kali”: I wouldn’t apply for any
shares with the fellow who is going to
clean up the N.S.W. National Park deer
and make his profit from the sale of
venison (B. 18 /8 / ’37). I have shot many
deer in the Park, and staggered back to
my week-ender with the hindquarters
draped around my neck. Having sampled
the flesh roasted, boiled and stewed, both
fresh and after being hung, I’d prefer
a slab off the oldest bell wether in ’the
State. And I am not alone in my opinion.
The last dozen deer I have killed in de-
fence of my cabbage patch have all been
buried as they fell.
* * * *
“Ike Mcßagg”: Queensland anti-s.p.
campaigners have tracked down two of
the boys who have been operating an
underground system. Supplied by a kindly
Government with “silent number tele-
phones” they worked behind locked
doors, the ’phone numbers being given
only to well-accredited punters. When
the police raided the office of one of the
merchants they found something new.
A marble-topped table had been wiped
with a damp cloth and was still wet, but
a magnifying glass revealed that it had
been used as a ledger to record names
and bets.
* X # *
Picture of a millionaire:
Andrew Mellon, who died one of the world’s
richest men, did not look like a multi-million-
aire. He was tall and lean ; his clothes were
quiet, his accent polished. But his general appear-
ance disguised a strong jaw and mellowed a de-
termined eye. He was U.S.A. Treasurer for a
record stretch—ll years—but all his experience
did not save his country from plunging into
depression during his reign, and all his financial
adroitness could not find a solution. He went
out of office with Hoover in 1932 and spent an j
uncomfortable year as Ambassador to Britain
He left between 50 and 75 millions (in pounds)
to an educational and charitable trust, having
allocated about the same amount to his children
during his lifetime. The Mellon Institute of
Industrial Research is his chief public
monument.
* * * *
“Metallist”: If the Black Mountain ore
at Cloncurry (N.Q.) runs to 58 p.c.
metallic iron, as has been stated, it is
by no means poor, though Australia
contains richer deposits. The Cleve-
land ore on which the English
iron industry founded its past pros-
perity ran only 34 p.c. metallic iron,
and there are many other successfully-
worked deposits not much richer. What
is really needed in Australia is more
prospecting for bituminous coal. Given
plenty of such coal almost any sort of
iron ore can be profitably worked. This
continent is almost the size of Europe
and not so much smaller than U.S.A.,
yet it has turned up coal in only four or
five places; and in at least three it was
sticking up out of the ground. Sys-
tematic boring might uncover it in a
dozen other places, some of them ad-
jacent to the present despised iron
deposits.


QUALITY CUTLERY at “The House of Steel
SEXTOBLADE RAZOR.
A Safety Razor made on similar lines to
the “open blade” with 6 blades, 27/6
each.
WILKINSON RAZOR.
i.*
Sfi !*
New Wilkinson Empire Model Safety
Razor with 2 hollow-ground blades,
14/6 each.
ALLEGRO SHARPENER.
«8sa«K« 1„ c ,X r
w;».Mn\B-AKE'jFI ; 3WUHTEH-:5T:.Sy,0WE:Y:
The Allegro Sharpener for Gillette
type blades, 25/- each.
REPAIRS of
kinds to cutlery
carried out in
workshops.
all
are
our
FAMILY HAIR CLIPPER.
This Hair Clipper will cut three
different lengths. Suitable for
country use, 19/6 each.
NAIL CLIPPER.
For hard finger
and toe nails,
6/6 each.
STOCK KNIFE.
SgM
Country Stock Knife, 3 blades,
8/6 each.
Open Friday
Evenings
till
8.45 p.m.
FLOWER SECATEUR.
D
These Secateurs will cut and hold any stems
of flowers, 13/6 each.
Catalogue
Post Free on
Request.
WE SHARPEN
SCISSORS, KNIVES,
RAZORS, etc.
CAMPING KNIFE.
m
%/ o
Camping or Boy’s Knife; contains 2
blades, tin-opener, bottle-opener and
corkscrew, leather punch and screw-
driver, 14/6 each.
W. JNO. BAKER
PTY.
LTD.
3 HUNTER STREET,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
For the Best Quality Cutlery since 1888
■ © © ° | 00 I j| ©
iVo. 9 of a series of articles on Old Cricketers.
Ranjitsinhji came to Australia with
Stoddart’s second team in 1897, and no
visiting cricketer, not even W. G. Grace,
has excited greater interest in these parts.
Then 25, and about the same size as the
Pataudi that Australia was to know long
afterwards, Ranji lived up to his English
reputation for wristy and daring batting
and catlike agility in the field. Fellow-
members of the team spoke highly of
his generosity, and crowds followed him
wherever he went.
Unfortunately he took a contract to
write his Australian impressions for
Stead’s “Review of Reviews,” and
towards the end of the tour his popu-
larity waned because of some indiscreet
things that appeared over his name.
The Indian’s ddbut was dazzling.
Against South Australia on the Adelaide
Oval he made 189, after having been
dropped in the second over. For once
the S.A. fielding was very bad, six
catches being missed, all off Jones—a
heartbreaking experience for a fast
bowler ; “Jonah” nevertheless took 7 for
190. For S.A. Clem Hill, who was not
yet old enough to vote, made a grand
200 ; and the match was drawn.
When the first ball was bowled, the
Englishmen were a mere two days off the
boat, and Stoddart was too ill to play.
George Giffen was missing from the
S.A. side, and he did not appear against
the Englishmen that season. It was a
question of terms ; he demanded more
for his services than the cricket authori-
ties were prepared to give.
Giffen was consoled for his self-
imposed retirement by the publication of
his book. “It is profusely illustrated,” a
review of the volume ran. “On the out-
side cover it has a portrait of George
Giffen. As a frontispiece it has a portrait
of George Giffen. Facing page 6 is a
portrait of George Giffen at the age of
18. At page 29 are portraits of the Aus-
tralian eleven of 1882, including George
Giffen. A portrait of George Giffen
(with ball) appears at page 36. At page
281 there is a portrait of George Giffen
ready to meet the ball. As bowler and
author George Giffen keeps himself
on Fair book; good man too
d d modest.”
Then, as now, finance bulked large in
the cricket discussions. It was said in Eng-
land that Stoddart would have brought
out a stronger lot if the Melbourne
Cricket Club, which, with the Sydney
C.G. trustees, had made all the financial
arrangements, had given him a free
Melbourne people half-expected. Ranji to come on like this.
hand; and the London “Athletic News”
came out with this bitter protest: “For
an Australian team to visit England, the
Australians select the men and take the
Q of. For an English team to visit Aus-
tralia, the Australians practically select
the team and likewise take the oof.”
An Australian comme ntator admitted
that the ind ictment was true in part,
“Stoddart,” he wrote, “is not invited to
bring out the best possible English eleven.
He is desired to engage an attractive
team, including as many new men as
will pass muster, and as few professionals
as are absolutely necessary to ensure re-
spectable bowling results. In the selec-
tion of amateurs preference is given to
men who ask for nothing more than bare
expenses, and gentlemen like Philipson,
who shouted his own trip, are most wel-
come of all.”
Going to Melbourne, Ranjitsinhji
lasted just long enough against the Vic-
torian bowlers to provoke sticklers for
the orthodox into shaking their heads
over his habit of putting his left leg in
front of the wicket when playing a ball
straight on leg and
middle stumps. But,
like Bradman, he
had an eye like a
hawk and was rarely
dismissed “leg be-
fore.” He also
rarely ducked fast
bowling, and would
have a go at a ball
that was coming
straight at his eyes.
A gamer fellow
never cased his limbs
in cricket flannels.
But he did little in
that Melbourne
match, though the
Victorians, notwith-
standing an elegant
88 from Bruce’s bat
and a plucky 83
made in Jack Wor-
rall’s characteristic
style—Jack mixed stolid defence with
hard hitting—were beaten by two wickets.
At Sydney the tourists had among their
N.S.W. opponents not-so-crabbed Age
and Youth, impersonated by Tom Garrett
and Victor Trumper. Garrett was cap-
tain and he sent Trumper in first. For
this the veteran was criticised when the
youngster lost his wicket immediately.
Trumper was to have a wonderful season
in club cricket —he hit four centuries in
succession, and six in eight innings—and
he did pretty well in intercolonial
matches ; but against the English bowling
he was not successful. Four hands
yielded only 32 runs.
The Englishmen won that match
against N.S.W. and the first Test match
also ; by eight wickets and nine wickets
respectively. On each occasion, the bat-
ting of MacLaren and Ranjitsinhji was
the principal factor in their success.
Against the colony MacLaren made 142
and 100 and Ranji 112 not out; against
Australia MacLaren made 109 and Ranji
175. The Englishmen opened with 551
(Charles McLeod, 3 for 80), Australia
replying with 237 (Trumble 70) and —
following on —408 (Darling 101, Hill 86,
Kelly 46 n. 0.); and the visitors got the
required 96 (MacLaren 50 n. 0.) for one
wicket. Hearne took 5 for 42 and 4 for
99 ; Richardson, 3 for 71 and 2 for 121.
MacLaren captained the side, Stod-
dart having fallen ill again. For that
matter Ranji took the field after a fort-
night’s sickness. His tonsils periodically
gave him trouble, and before the end of
the tour he had them yanked out; but
in the first Test match there was no trace
of tonsilitis in his work at the wickets or
in the field.
That was the only Test match the Eng-
lishmen won, and five were played. After
the initial failure, the Australians de-
veloped a side that demonstrated its
superiority in each department of the
game. Harry Trott’s powers were waning,
but he was worth his place in the eleven
for his qualities as skipper. As a leader
he was decidedly superior to Stoddart
and MacLaren.
Stoddart had some trying times on that
tour. When he and his men reached
Brisbane to play “13 of Queensland” (so
called because seven of the 13 were
Cornstalks, among them Charlie Turner
and Sammy Jones), they were effusively
welcomed by a crowd at the station, and
a pickpocket availed himself of the
opportunity to pinch Stoddart’s watch.


BACKACHE & BLADDER Weakness
MOW BANISHED—Quick New Way
"'The intestinal tract is the most prolific source of disease"
states Prof. K. Schneidler, the famous German Doctor.
AN irritating, weakening,
and embarrassing annoy-
ance is the best way to de-
scribe backache and bladder
weakness. Movement is pain-
ful, sleep at night is disturbed
by constantly having to get up.
You feel weak, depressed, you
have no vitality, your back,
legs and feet ache, you have
frequent headaches. Urination
sadfasdf
Clogged Colon
is often smart and
painful. But these
troubles are now
rapidly banished
because science has
at last discovered
that the basic cause
of backache, kidney and blad-
der weakness can be traced to
the physical reason for self-
poisoning i.e„ a clogged
colon.
The colon, the most important
part of the intestinal tract, has
two functions. It must absorb
essential minerals to nourish
the body and maintain the alka-
line reserve from passing food.
It must see that all acid-forming
waste matter is promptly ejected from
the body. Demineralized modern ioods
give insufficient exercise to the colon
walls, and they lose their power of
normal movement. Soon the walls fail
to extract the food minerals and fail to
eject the acid-forming, decaying waste.
The folds become clogged with putre-
fying matter. Virulent poisons and
acids form and seep into the blood-
stream. The entire system is attacked
—acidosis develops. Every important
organ in your body is threatened by
autoxima —i.e., self-poisoning.
i
Long Standing Case Relieved
“I have much pleasure in telling you
what COLOSEPTIC has done for me.
It has cured me of long-standing weak-
ness in kidney and bladder. 1 could not
walk any distance with pleasure and my
rest was disturbed at night. Now I can
say in truth that COLOSEPTIC has
done its work—l am cured . What joy
to go out and walk without trouble now."
—Mr. E.A.S., Fielding.
FREE : ; ;liberal test
SAMPLE OF COLOSEPTIC.
Mail coupon for a FREE
sample of COLOSEPTIC and
an enthralling and interesting
book, telling you all about
autoxima, the real cause of
kidney acidity, backache,
bladder weakness. The book
and the sample are FREE, but
send 3d. in stamps to cover
cost of packing and posting.
A clogged colon is one of the
prices we pay for civilisation.
The modern devitalized, de-
mineralized foods we eat make
it more and more difficult to
maintain the active functioning
of the colon. Until your clogged
colon is cleansed and revita-
lized, your system made alka-
line, and the cause of autoxima
removed, you cannot hope for
permanent relief
from kidney acidity
and bladder weak-
ness. Science has,
at last, discovered a
new and effective
remedy COLO-
*5 s
Unclogged
Colon.
SEPTIC (Wayne's Improved
Formula). It acts in Nature's
way. It is entirely different
from old-fashioned pills and
tablets.
Coloseptic’s Vitalizing Action
To strengthen your kidneys and
bladder, restore vigor and vitality—get
rid of backache and pains in the legs,
you must remove the acid-developing
encrustations which line your colon.
Normal bowel movements cannot do
this, the walls have become too slug-
gish, and opening medicines only
purge the lower end of the colon. Look
at the two illustrations and see how
COLOSEPTIC clears your colon. It
tones up the walls, giving back the
power of normal movement, it corrects
acid conditions, and stimulates the ac-
tion of the pores of the skin, the re-
spiratory system, and the kidneys—
the three other important organs which
eliminate poisons from your system.
Remove the cause of kidney and blad-
der weakness by taking COLOSEPTIC
and enjoy perfect health, comfort and
peace of mind
ALWAYS.
At all Chemists, 2 7 9 . . Economy Size, 5 7 6
If unobtainable locally 9 write to COLOSEPTIC (Aust.) Ltd 26 O’Connell Street , Sydney .
FOR BETTER INTERNAL CLEANNESS
mk
1C
CHECKS SELF-POISONING
AIDS NUTRITION
COMBATS ACIDITY
BUILDS HEALTH
At a welcome at the Town Hall on the
following morning, the Mayor expressed
the hope that a Queenslander hadn’t
pinched it. Stoddart seemed rather indif-
ferent as to the birthplace of the
marauder.
At Glen Innes (N.S.W.) Stoddart re-
minded the local skipper of an'arrange-
ment that only 13 of the “22 of Glen
Innes” should field. “That’s all right,”
said the local skipper; and he chose his
best 11 fieldsmen and rang the changes
on his bowlers. When each trundler had
been sufficiently punished, he was dis-
patched to the pavilion, from which an-
other emerged ; and so it went on till
nearly every man of the 22 had done his
bit.
Noble came into the Australian team
for the second Test match at Melbourne,
taking the place of Jack Lyons. He
didn’t do much with the bat, his single
contribution being 17, but most of the
others rose to the occasion (Charlie
McLeod 112, Iredale 89, Trott 79,
Gregory 71, Hill 58 and Darling 36) and
520 was reached. The Englishmen did
pretty well in the first innings, their total
being 315 (Ranji 71, Storer 51, Briggs 46
not out), but, following on, collapsed for
150 (MacLaren 38, Hayward 33, Ranji
27). Noble took 1 for 31 and 6 for 49 ;
Trumble 4 for 54 and 4 for 53.
MacLaren, like the Hon. Ivo Bligh,
married a Victorian girl—Kathleen Maud
Power. Though the Melbourne Cricket
Ground was the scene of his first big
innings in Australia, he was not at his
ease when batting on it in 1897-98, and
a misogynist suggested that romance had
something to do with it: “Melbourne is
the home of his bride-elect, and the
knowledge that the brightest angel in all
the world will nearly break her little
heart if he doesn’t make a big score
troubles MacLaren considerably.”
At Adelaide Bill Howell played his first
Test match, McKibbin being dropped to
make room for him. As at Melbourne,
the Australians batted first, nine men
made double-figure scores (Darling 178,
Iredale 84, Hill 81, Gregory 52 and
Noble 39), Jones was run out and the
fifth century was exceeded, the total being
573. The Englishmen were disposed of
for 278 (Hirst 85, Hayward 70) and 282
(MacLaren 124, Ranji 77). Noble took
3 for 78 and 5 for 84. Howell got 4 for
70, but failed in the second innings (0
for 60); in that innings, however,
McLeod, who had not previously bowled
in the match, collected 5 for 65.
The high spot of Joe Darling’s innings
was a mighty sixer, the ball going clean
over the outer fence. His 178 brought
him a cheque for £7B from his sire.
Darling pere was reminded that when,
after years of stern disapproval, he
formally approved of his offspring’s am-
bition to become an international
cricketer, he had signified his forgiveness
with an offering of a gold watch and a
cheque, “representing one poond per
r-run.” He said that he altered the basis
of his gifts to “one poond per r-run over
the hoondred —one has to be canny wi’
Joe; he bats best when there’s siller
aboot.”
At Melbourne and Adelaide, the Eng-
lish bowlers had all been collared. In
the fourth Test match in Melbourne
Hearne came off, taking 6 for 98 ; the
Australians nevertheless contrived to
make 323 (Hill 188, Trumble 46). On a
good wicket the Englishmen failed for
174 (Mason 30, Ranji 24; Jones 4 for
56, Trumble 2 for 30, Trott 2 for 33).
They improved a bit in the second in-
nings, scoring 263 (Ranji 55, MacLaren
45 ; McLeod 2 for 11, Trumble 2 for 40,
Howell 2 for 58 and Jones 2 for 70); but
Australia got the required 115 for two
wickets (McLeod not out 64; Darling
29).
The rubber won by Australia, recrimi-
nations began. “We’ve been hooted on
every ground in Australia,” Ranji wailed.
He had a private reason for resentment.
Going to the races at Adelaide and back-
ing a winner, he incautiously made it
known that he would give the jockey a
fiver if the latter called round that night
at the tourists’ hotel, and a large affable
person called and got it. The large
affable person beat the real jockey to
the fiver by about 10 minutes, and the
manikin was so sore about it that the
Indian prince, though himself deeply
wounded, forked out another,
Stoddart himself, though he should
have known his Australians, complained
of the barracking. And MacLaren, it
was said, had been caught in the decisive
second innings at Melbourne—he played
a ball from Trumble into Iredale’s hands
at short leg—because a low Australian
fly crept into his eye. Whereupon a
poet:
\y^ 0 won t j, e match?
“I,” said the fly,
t I n MacLaren’s eye,
* 1 won the match - ’
From the Australian quarter came
delicate suggestions that the English
b°wling would have been less ineffec-
bve' cer l a *D °f the pros, had taken
water with it. In theii own coun-
trY’ one moralist asserted, “they have to
be c ° ntent with bread and cheese and
beer *” ° ne or two P ros - hadn,t been ln
Aust ralia a fortnight before they were
criticising the brands of champagne on
sale as if the y had been suckled on fizz,
In Sydney a pro. ordered two bottles to
be Put on ice f° r tb e proper celebration
b^s birthday ; but in the evening he
countermanded the order, saying, “I don't
want an Y of that g° ldt °P> ’cos Ranji
has come to my reskew.” Having been
told that it was the pro.’s natal day, Ranji
had sent T° rd *° the publican to °P“
™ e £or the crowd '
In the last Test at s y dne Y> the English-
men § ot first use of the wickets > and at
tbe end tbe second da Y had a good
lead: En S land 335 (MacLaren 65, Druce
64 ’ Wainwri ght 49; Jones 6 for 82);
Australi a 239 (McLeod 64, Noble 31 ;
Richardson 8 for 94). But in their second
try the travellers went to pieces again,
going down for 178 (Hayward 43, Storer
31 ; Trumble 4 for 37, Jones 3 for 61,
Howell 2 for 22), and, thanks chiefly to a
great stand by Darling (160) and Worrall
(62), the Australians won by six wickets.
In the meantime N.S.W. had defeated
the Englishmen by 239 runs. That was
Exit Ranji.
the only provincial match they lost, but
had the last match, against South Aus-
tralia, been played out, a sixth defeat
must have gone on their list, for S.A.
needed only 67 runs to win, and had
eight wickets in hand. Hill was 124 not
out. Already in first-class cricket that
season he had made 200, 45, 96, 58, 81,
175 and 170, and he wound up with an
aggregate of 1196, averaging 66.44.
Against the Englishmen his aggregate
was 829 at 75.436. Ranji, playing 10
more innings against all sorts, had made
1157 runs at 60.89 ; Darling—like Hill
playing 12 innings—had accumulated 722,
averaging 60.16. Noble’s bag of wickets
was 38 at 22; Jones’s 43 at 22.76.
When the tour was over, gate receipts
were published for the first time. The
first match against S.A. at Adelaide
yielded £l2OO ; the second, against Vic-
toria at Melbourne, £2222 6s. 6d.; v.
N.S.W. at Sydney, £2730 12s. 4d.; New-
castle, £2OO ; Glen Innes, £l2O ; Brisbane,
£750; Toowoomba, £150; Armidale,
£l5O ; first Test, £2300 ; Bendigo, £250 ;
second Test, £3840; Ballarat, £150;
Stawell, £122 ; third Test, £2160 ; Hamil-
ton, £150; fourth Test, £2282 ; second
N.S.W. match, £1450; University XIII
(Sydney), £150; Brisbane, £135; fifth
Test, £3250; second Victoria, £662;
second S.A., £414 ; total, £24,836 ss. 4d.
Expenses amounted to roughly £12,000,
and, with the deduction of ground per-
centages here and there, profits were well
over £9OOO.
MacLaren, in a review of the tour, wrote
that his team had failed because its bowl-
ing was too monotonous: “The good
bowler out here is the man whose ball
has a peculiar flight in the air, and who
mixes fast and slow and is always try-
ing to break. Our bowlers .scarcely ever
vary their pace. The Australians make us
get our fours ; that is, we have to force
for fours by pulling and lifting. Runs
were made much more easily off our
bowling. With Peel we would have had
a fine side. He knew exactly how to
bowl in Australia. Take a great bowler
out of a team and it at once becomes a
moderate one.”


“On behalf of Terrigan,” he said, “I accept your
offer.”
Among the audience the applause continued with
unabated fervor. Pettigrew’s offer seemed to have
settled any lingering doubts that the audience may ha e
entertained regarding the wisdom of secess r m.
Presently everyone began to speak at once, bom* ird-
ing the Chair with motions. It will probably never
be discovered who, outbellowing the others, cried “I
move that Terrigan secede from the British Empire!”
but in a trice it was seconded from all parts of the hall.
Not that Terrigan was disloyal, but the citizens
felt that if a thing was worth doing it was worth doing
well. The unfortunate chairman was once more out of
his depth, and would probably have had to vacate the
chair there and then had not Hiram Pettigrew once
more stepped-into the breach. Rising to his feet, he
began: ■ - ■ •
“Look here,, Mr. Chairman. I’m an Amur-
rican citizen, ah’ I think y’r laws an’ y’r Government’s
rotten, an’ I’m willing to come in with y’ on this seces-
sion racket. Y’ kin secede from y’r State Government
right now as far as I’m concerned, I guess, an’ y’ kin
secede from y’r Federal Government in the same
breath, and I’ll be right with y’. [Cheers* and shouts
of “Make him President!”]. But, see here—when it
comes to talking about dropping outa the British Em-
pire y’ can count me right out! Yes, sir!] Y’ don’t
get me stirring up trouble between England and the
Yewnited States. If y’ want t’ secede from Eng-
land, go ahead an’ do it —but you’ll get no money
outa me. No, sir!”
This unexpected outburst had a steadying effect
on the gathering. The cheering and shouting among
the audience died down; the shire councillors looked
red and foolish; Mr. Peperell registered relief and
approval; Mr. Pettigrew sat down, panting heavily.
Jerry was amazed. If he had anticipated fun,
here it was, and he was not the man to allow himself
to be left out of it. Up till now he had played only a
secondary part in the proceedings, but the moment was
propitious, he judged, to take a more active role. He
sprang to his feet and commenced to speak.
He was sure, he said, that it was not the wish
or intention of any right-thinking Terriganian that the
town should cut the painter with the Empire. In their
loyalty to the flag Terriganians yielded to none. They
had no quarrel with Britain. If the King knew how
the town had been treated he was sure he would be
the first to say “Give them back their train.” But
the fact that loyal townspeople were even prepared
to consider leaving the Empire showed how strongly
they felt the harsh treatment of the State Government.
(Hear, hear!) He himself felt that nothing short of
secession from the Commonwealth and, of course,
from New South Wales would meet the case ; but let
them at all costs remain within the Empire.
“Why should not Terrigan become a self-govern-
ing dominion?” he asked eloquently. “True, we are
small in numbers, but size is not everything. Are
we not capable of governing ourselves? [Cries of
“Yes!”] We have Mr. Pettigrew’s offer of financial
help. This generous, disinterested gentleman who
has only been among us since yesterday is prepared
to back us in our struggle for freedom. Are we
going to let him down? [Shrieks of “No!”] Mr.
Chairman, I submit that the motion be now put.”
The chairman nodded, and Jerry sat down amid
tremendous cheers.
As the special issue of the “Times” recorded next
day, “The chairman, Mr. Thomas Peperell, then put
the motion, which was carried unanimously and with
tremendous enthusiasm. A motion affirming the new
dominion’s loyalty to the Throne was then recorded,
and a Committee of Action was appointed to draw
up a Constitution, to make arrangements for carrying
out the secession programme, and to do other things
essential to the carrying out thereof.”
Shortly after this last business had been completed
the meeting closed. It was close on midnight, but
nevertheless most of the audience gathered in excited
groups outside the hall, discussing the night’s doings.
One figure stood apart, lone and dismal. It was
Constable Dansie. Regulations did not, as far as he
recollected, provide for such a contingency. It was
permissible, he knew, in the event of riot or civil
commotion, to swear in citizens as special constables ;
but of what avail would that be when all the eligible
citizens were banded together against the State?
The councillors and the Committee of Action
were coming away from the hall. In the forefront
walked Jerry, Mr. Napper and Hiram Pettigrew.
Dansie pulled himself together. Secession or no
secession, half a million or not, he must do his duty.
“Er —Mr. Pettigrew,” he began as they drew level.
Jerry grabbed him by the hand before the
American had time to utter a word. “Thanks, Peter.
The way you kept order among that crowd to-night!”
“But,” protested Dansie, “I’ve got to”
“Yes, I know. Of course you’re with us, Peter.
Everyone’s with us. And we’ll win out. You just
stick around like you did to-night and you’ll be
helping us no end. Thanks again, Peter. Good
night.”
The party passed on, leaving the policeman dazed
and bewildered.
“Hang it!” he muttered helplessly. “What’ll the
missus say?”
| ATE in the afternoon of the day following Terri-
C-' gan’s most memorable public meeting the “Times”
again came hot from the press with a special edition,
the writing of which had kept Mr. Napper busy all
night and the printing of which had been the biggest
effort in Mr. Bowden’s long career.
TERRIGAN NOT TO BE TRAMPLED ON!
Monster Meeting Favors Secession!
screamed the largest headlines the “Times” could
muster. Followed a full account of the meeting, with
Mr. Napper’s speech reported verbatim and the rest
as accurately as his recollection permitted. Tributes
were paid to “our noble-hearted benefactor, Mr. Hiram
Pettigrew, whose generous offer has brought secession
within the range of practical politics,” to Mr. Thomas
Peperell, “our respected Shire Council president, who
has promised his own support and that of the council,”
to Mr. Gerald Bannister, “whose, brilliant; young legal
mind has already been of inestimable assistance to the
Committee of Action.”
The Committee of Action had met that morn-
ing and, after preliminary doubts and morning : after
Mr. Napper’s brisk stride.
repentances had been allayed by Jerry and Napper,
quite a lot of business was got through. The com-
mittee consisted of Peperell, Napper, Mutton, Bucke-
nara, another councillor by the name of Greville, Dick
Taylor and Gerald and, of course, Hiram Pettigrew.
“I don’t know that I oughter,” he protested, “me
bein’ a citizen of the Yewnited States ; but if I’m
goin’ t’ put th’ money up I might as well have a seat
on the board.”
Having slept on the project, the members were
a little less impetuous than they had been twelve hours
before. At the close of the previous night’s meeting
they would almost have been prepared to lead a night
attack on Canberra and follow it up with a swift
flanking movement to cut off Sydney, but in the clear
light of day they were ready to proceed with a little
more caution.
As Jerry pointed out, they could do nothing until
Mr. Pettigrew had deposited with a reputable bank
sufficient money to cover their share of the national
debt and of the cost of Government railways, build-
ings and other facilities within their boundaries.
Hiram undertook to cable his bankers right away.
There was the question of publicity, said Jerry.
They didn’t want the place cluttered up with reporters
and busybodies before they were ready for them. At
this stage Mr. Napper admitted having dispatched a
duplicate of his “Times” report to Sydney to the
“Thunderer.”
Jerry frowned. He’d hoped to keep the news
from spreading until his plans were ripe. Perhaps,
suggested Mr. Napper, it mightn’t be printed in full.
It was decided to hope for the best regarding the
report already posted, and to see that no further
bulletins were issued to the outside world.
Mr. Napper’s report did appear in the ‘ Thun-
derer,” but, thanks to a spate of sporting news, a
batch of motor accidents and an unsympathetic sub.,
its form was somewhat changed. It read:
PROTEST MEETING.
A public meeting was held in the local hall at
Terrigan (near Wygong) on Wednesday night to protest
against reduction of train service. It was well attended.
Meanwhile, the citizenry of Terrigan went about
its daily round very much as usual, and a casual
visitor would have noticed nothing in the conduct of
the town or its people that would have led him to
suspect that Terrigan was no longer an integral part of
Australia. Trains and mails arrived as usual (except
on Tuesdays), and the business of the town went on
just as though the secession motion had never been
heard of. Certainly Mr. Mutton was missing from
the post office more often than his customary visits
to the Federal would account for, and Mr. Buckenara
seemed to leave the conduct of the Railways Depart-
ment business to Tom, the porter, much more than
was his wont.
As to Mr. Napper, he was leaving the school-
children so much to their own resources that they
were beginning to think the millennium had come.
The committee was in almost continuous conclave
for a few days' after the meeting, and it was soon
apparent that the guiding mind of the movement was
to be Gerald’s. Mr. Napper was full of suggestions
and plans, but the others were inclined to listen more
to the young lawyer. The schoolmaster was eager for
instant action. He advocated the immediate dispatch
of letters of defiance to Sydney and Canberra, and of
a cable to Downing-street demanding recognition as
a self-governing dominion and the appointment of a
Governor.
Jerry held out for a different, plan of campaign.
To strike too soon, he said, was to invite failure. The
best scheme was to secure a Governor, appoint a
Government, and then present the world with a fait
accompli. .:
In response to the question “How can we get a
Governor until we are recognised?”.he had his answer
ready.'. . ‘ ‘ .
HISTORIANS of the future, in recounting this
extremely interesting portion of Australian his-
tory, will have recourse to the minute-books of the
Committee of Action and to .the files of" the “Terrigan
Times.” Quoted verbatim and in toto, neither of
these records would prove vastly entertaining, the
former being accurate but dull and the latter (reported
by Mr. Napper) pedantic and somewhat tinged with
bias. ■
There , is, ' J fortunately, another record which,
although its absolute accuracy may possibly be ques-
tioned and its lack of bias doubted, can certainly not
be accused of being dull or pedantic. It consists of
a letter written by Mr. Hiram Pettigrew to his daughter
Sally. After recounting the doings at the meeting
and after, it goes on:
So this young guy Bannister, he sort of takes
charge. “ You’ve got to get a Governor,” he
says. “Where from?” they ask him. “From
England,” he comes back.
Old Napper says the proper thing to do is
declare their independence and ask the King
to send out a Governor. Bannister tells him
they can’t do that. “As soon as we make our
declaration,” he says, “we’ll have the Govern-
mentcabling London to object, and we’ll never
get a Governor then. Britain wouldn’t dare.
We’ve got to get him first,” .he says, “then
declare !” “How you going to get him?” they
ask. “Leave it to me,” says young Jerry. “I’ll
get him. I know just the man.”
There’s a lot more spiel, and he goes on to
say that the gink he’s thinking of is a Scottish
bairn or cairn or something, and that he’ll suit
them right down to the ground.
“How are you going to get him to come ?”
they ask him. “I’ll fix that,” says Jerry. “A
little diplomacy and tact and he’ll jump at it.”
Napper wants to know isn’t there supposed
to be a commission or something from the
King, and Jerry says he’ll attend to that, too.
“Leave it all in my hands,” he tells us, “and I
won’t let you down. Let me fly to London by
air mail. I’ll dash straight up to Scotland and
get hold of Sir Hamish McTaggart, and rush
him here by return ’plane. You can charter a
’plane to meet us at Cootamunara. It’ll only
take a fortnight at the outside. Meanwhile you
can be getting, things quietly under way here. ’
In the end, they agreed to let him go, and he
says he’ll catch the ’plane to-morrow.
Now if that ain’t a queer mess for your old
dad to be in, you can call me a nigger. Here
am I, Hiram Pettigrew, of Pettigrew’s Priceless
Pickles, mixed up in what looks like it’s going
to be a first-class revolution. And I’m the guy
that’s putting up the dollars for it. And for
why ? asks you. Well, Sally girl, I guess it s just
along of because I’m not letting those racketeer-
ing police chiefs put it over me. I’m showing
them where they get off. It’s going to cost a few
dollars, but it’s going to be worth it. Five
blisters, mind you, and more to come if I pay
them, I gues.s. Chicago isn’t in it!
Now don’t you start telling your old pa how
to run his affairs. You just leave it to me. IU
show them Hiram Pettigrew won’t stand for
their graft. So I won’t be seeing Melbourne
yet awhile, and if you’re getting poppa-sick
you’ll have to join me here.
(To be continued next week.)


NOSE, THROAT AND CHEST
AILMENTS
Quickest remedied with
HEENZO
at amazingly low cost
BEST NASAL HYGIENE FOR
CATARRH AND COLDS IN THE HEAD
Exhaustive tests have proved the best and most economical way of treating catarrh and colds in the
head is by either swabbing or putting a few drops of HEENZO into each nostril night and morning.
HEENZO is a unique antiseptic, because it does NOT contain any poisons or harsh drugs, therefore
will not damage the most delicate membranes.
BEST GARGLE FOR
SORE AND IRRITATING THROATS
The quickest relief possible from sore and irritating throats can be obtained by gargling with HEENZO.
Again the fact that HEENZO does not contain any poisons is an advantage allowing the sufferer to
gargle as often as desired when relief is needed.
BEST INTERNAL REMEDY FOR
COUGHS—COLDS
CROUP, BRONCHITIS AND INFLUENZA
You save lots of money by simply adding a two-shilling bottle of concentrated HEENZO to sweetened water, thus making a large family
supply equal in quantity to eight ordinary-sized bottles of the best nose, throat, and chest remedies that would cost up to £l. When you
make your large bottle of HEENZO it is ready for the instant use of adults and children as a nasal antiseptic, throat gargle, or internal
remedy for coughs, colds, croup, bronchitis, and whooping cough.
Once again the fact that HEENZO does not contain any poisons or dangerous drugs is an extra advantage, because its purity is such that
it will not upset the digestion of even the youngest baby, and is equally good for adults and infants. Heenzo is wonderfully simple to make,
and simply wonderful to take.
r M4£T£TAi T/1
Should be used in every home and
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK'S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
II
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
\ -t*P
<&r*r
,«>> .u\°
«*%*&* ..-'■
, ,#* ~
> # s ' .-••
' >M”
,*;& < S'b® f V
.* * v.O^
k 0 \^^y-


THERE IS A RATIONAL RADIO
Rational Radio is built up to a quality. The
high standard of Rational Radio demands
components which will give the brilliance of
performance and clarity of tone which a
fastidious public demands.
The range of Rational Radio comprises out-
standing examples of what modern manufac-
turing methods can obtain in the production
of a receiver at a rational price.
Wherever you live —whatever your require-
merits —there is a Rational Radio at the Price
you wish to pay, that will give you greater
performance and unsurpassed entertainment.
Following on the phenomenal success of the
Battery Models 5 and 6, we introduce two
additional receivers for the country listener,
in Models 20 and 21, that are the finest
vibrator receivers yet produced in Australia,
offering as they do maximum economy and
unexcelled performance.
Wf.
m
m
mm.
■I
All Rational Radio Receivers are avail-
able on Rational Hire Purchase Terms,
with a Rational guarantee.
RATIONAL
BY BRITON
Model Is “The Buccaneer,” 4/5
Dual Wave A.C. Receiver, in
Mantel Cabinet.
List Price, 18 Guineas.
Model 9: 4/5 Broadcast A.C.
Receiver, with A.V.C., complete
in Loughboy Cabinet.
List Price, 23 Guineas.
Model 10: 4/5 Dual Wave A.C.
Receiver, with A.V.C., complete
in Loughboy Cabinet.
List Price, 25 Guineas.
Model 11: 5/6 Dual Wave A.C.
Receiver, with A.V.C. and 12in.
Speaker, complete in Console
Cabinet.
List Price, 33 Guineas.
Model 12: A.C./D.C.-Dual Wave,
6 Valve and Baretter, Receiver,
with A.V.C., complete in Con-
sole Cabinet.
List Price, 34 Guineas.
Model 13: A.C./D.C. Broadcast
Receiver, 5 Valve and Baretter,
with A.V.C., complete in Lough-
boy Cabinet.
List Price, 25 Guineas.
Model 15: 4 Valve Broadcast
Battery Receiver, with full A.V.
control, 6in. Permag. Speaker,
complete in Mantel Cabinet. Low
battery consumption of lima.
List Price, 21 Guineas.
Model 16: 5 Valve Battery
Broadcast Receiver, with large
dial and complete in Loughboy
Cabinet. Low battery consump-
tion of 12ma.
List Price, 28 Guineas.
Model 17: 5 Valve Dual Wave
Battery-operated Receiver, com-
plete in Console Cabinet. Low
battery consumption of 12ma.
List Price, 33 Guineas.
Model 18: 7 Valve Dual Wave
Battery-operated Receiver, com-
plete in De Luxe Console Cabinet,
with 4 B Batteries and one (1)
145 amp. A Battery. (Static
current, 12ma. Current gain in
operation depends on the volume
level at which the receiver is set
-—at peak volume this value will
rise to 25ma., but the average is
16ma.)
List Price, 40 Guineas.'
Model 19: 6/7 A.C. Dual Wave
Receiver, with 12in. imported
Magnavox Speaker, ELS output
tube, built in line filter, complete
in De Luxe Console Cabinet.
List Price, 39 Guineas.
Model 20: 5 Valve Broadcast
Vibrator Receiver, with 6-volt
Accumulator, A.V.C., complete in
Loughboy Cabinet.
List Price, 34 Guineas.
Model 21: 5 Valve Dual Wave
Vibrator Receiver, with 6-volt
Accumulator, A.V.C., complete
in Console Cabinet.
List Price, 36 Guineas.
BRITON
BRITON ELECTRICAL AND RADIO Pty.Ltd.
152-156 PARRAMATTA RD., PETERSHAM, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Metropolitan Distributors:
Harris Radio, Ltd., 10th Floor, Grace Building,
Corner York and King Streets, Sydney.
Telephone:
L 3621 (3 lines).
' r J''U‘s4 -V.V.
Queensland Distributors:
Irvine Radio and Electrical Co.,
11l Elizabeth Street, Brisbane.
