

■
■&J:
f
i v
\
6
T
'
mmm
.Vxv.
- $$ I
. A
: ■ ■■ - > ■: .-: ■ " :
m
%v 1
' J
,
1
'
iiSiiifeii
> r.M:
.ul <
I I I I I I I I
:
»
m
1 t /f
Mill
si**
C
SgS
•••:'• :
r
tig
It’s the KODAK FILM
that MAKES the picture!
K 0 V A I( liE TIN A
gives you all the fas-
cinating advantages <>j
36 exp. 33mm. film
work without undue
expense or complica-
tion. F/3.5 lens with
Speed Compur Shutter
to lffiOOth. Nickel
finish, £lOllOl-.
Chromium finish, £l2.
Now, while the holiday spirit
is in the air get your new 1937
model Kodak. Your snapshots
will be thrillingly lifelike
your friends will be delighted.
SENSATIONAL VALUE!
Never before such value! It’s the world’s most
popular Kodak, the Six-20 Kodak Junior with
f/8.8 Anastigmat lens, with twelve modern
features for better snapshots. Superb workman-
ship throughout. For popular 2\ x 3£ inch
pictures. Astonishingly low priced
at
You must see it!
KODACHROME IS HERE!
Direct clear-color 16mm. and Bmm.
movies now simpler than snapshots.
No special apparatus for taking or
projecting t'he color is in the film.
Kodachrome gives you every scene in
full brilliant color, clear in detail,
revolutionary in clarity. Available for
use in any I 6mm. Cine-Kodak and
most other 16mm. cine cameras and
for Cine-Kodak Eight.
Secure a reel for Easter. A truly
wonderful pleasure is in store for you.
OF ALL KODAK DEALERS AND
IA \/ (AUSTRALASIA)
KODAK PTY. LTD.
379 George Street, Sydney: "The Block,” 284 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl ; 250-252 Queen Street. Brisbane;
37 Rundle Street, Adelaide; 45 Elizabeth Street, Hobart; 662 Hay Street, Perth; Ruthvcn Street, Toowoomba;
East Street, Rockhampton ; Flinders Street, Townsville.
Also stocked by KODAK NEW ZEALAND LTD. 162 Queen Street, Auckland ;40 Princes Street, Dunedin ;
294 Lambton Quay. Wellington; 681 Colombo Street, Christchurch.
The Bulletin
Preserve Section 92!
Vol. 58.—N0. 2976.
Wednesday, February 24, 1937.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


LIST OF BOOKS.
In Australiana, Travel, Literature, Art or Children’s Works
free on application to
Secondhand Book Department of
ROBERTSON & MULLENS, LTD.,
107-113 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
DYMOCK’S LIBRARY CATALOGUE
with terms and particulars, will be sent
post free to any address on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
“The Block,”
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
ik;l
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAID
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
My Address
S.B. 337
S. H. Prior Memorial Prize
Third Competition, Closing June 6, 1937.
Full particulars of this annual literary award will be published
here from time to time, or may be had on application to ihl
Bulletin, 252 George-street, Sydney.
For this current competition only novels are eligible, ana me
Prize will be awarded to that which is considered the most
outstanding contribution to Australian literature. , ,
The trustees will publish the successful work in book torm,
and in serial form any they may deem worthy. .If pubbshed as a
serial the winner will be paid for at serial rates in addition to th
prize-money. Any others used as serials will also be paia ior
serial rates. - , - n
Any bona fide Australian resident or any person bom m
Australia, New Zealand or British South Pacific islands will b
eligible to enter for the competition works which must bem
original work of the entrants, and previously unpublished, eithe
wholly or in part, in book or serial form. Manuscripts must b
submitted under a nom de plume, and tne true nameandaddres
of the author must accompany each entry in a sealed envelop .
which will not be opened until the judges have made their decision.
The trustees reserve the right to withhold the Prize it no wo
submitted is, in the opinion of the judges, worthy of an a
If this should occur in any year, the amount of the rrize wm u
added to the following year’s Prize.
The Red Page
Pomegranates .
Sung by the nightingale to birth
Whose ringing pearls were all the dew
With which, the long dry summer through,
The rainless azure fed their dearth —
Pomegranates, colder than the moon,
In whom a maiden breast rebels
Forcing the smooth gold of their shells
To split with rubies to the noon.
In whose half-opened husks we see,
Where the rich blood of autumn swells,
The membranes and the rosy cells .
To which the sunbeam was the bee:
Like musing brows with patience fraught
Until their secret gems be shown.
And’ through their inward toil alone
Made royal with a crown of thought:
As to some poet’s labors wed
To dream Golcondas from despair,
Till some pure act of faith or prayer
Shall freeze the crimson tears they shed:
Like lovers’ hearts to ripeness grown
The rapturous red wine they bleed
Is chambered in each lustrous seed
As light within a carven stone.
Warm-flushing through their films of frost
With rosy smiles and crystal teeth
A yielding beauty seems to breathe
Whose language on our lips is lost.
Their speech in coolness dies away,
Thawed by a breath, they change and tremble
As the lips they most resemble
When one red kiss is all they say.
Too fain in fragrance to escape,
Their form eludes the clearest phrase
When Psyche, in a sister’s praise,
Would carve her crystals in their shape.
In vain her vision seeks to prove
The secret structure of those grains
Whose dewy membranes and lit veins
Remind her most of those I love.
If new similitudes to try,
Fusing them with her speech, she sips
Those seeds whose death upon the lips
Is half a kiss and half a sigh—
Moulding those phrases with her tongue
That melt as sweetly, by a spell
So transient that she cannot tell
If they be tasted, kissdd or sung—
Their gems so ruddy to the eye
Are snow upon the mouth that sips:
But even when they cheat the lips
And, born of song, in perfume die,—
Are most conspiring with her theme
The true resemblance to disclose,
And tell the secrets of the rose
Whose changing reveries they seem.
—Roy Campbell: reprinted in “Mithraic Emblems."
Campbell the Killer.
In his new book, Mithraic Emblems, Roy Camp-
bell says:—
The Born-too-late and Born-too-soon
Are Babies howling for the Moon.
For me the Wherest and the Howest
Are still the Herest and the Nowest —
yet in his verse he has no feeling whatever for how
things are ; it is as though he were a god, able to do
and say what he pleases. What makes him godlike
is his extraordinary courage as bullfighter or any other
kind of fighter; no doubt such complete confidence is
enough to make any man’s world what he wants it
to be: it is certainly the best justification for romantic
writing:
We each have films in which we love to star
And kid ourselves we’re others than we are:
and his favorite film is a Wild-West thriller with Roy
Campbell as Tom Mix, Bill Hart or Buffalo Bill;
although he has done time at Oxford University,
he prefers to remember himself as a cowboy
from Sopth Africa. Since he has been in Spain,
I notice, he has added a guitar to his equipment—the
singing cowboy. And steadily through his career he
has developed a theory that it' is the cowboys who
will inherit the earth:
In that Rodeo, we shall meet our peers,
And Angels will come down on bucking steers,
And Abel’s sons will cut the Devil’s ears.
So it is not surprising that his most earnest poetry
should be an endeavor to revive the Mithraic symbols
to hand down to his chosen people; and in the series
of sonnets which titles the book we find the gospel
of bullfighting treated in veronicas designed by Mai-
larme (that famous matador); the deep, cold and
shining finish which Campbell has made peculiarly his
own in English.
His poetry is more metrical than rhythmical; its
effects are not varied except in thought and color:
Campbell is a killer no matter how you take him, and
each of his poems works up to the moment when the
bull stands beaten and the matador sights, along his
sword and runs in; as he comes away the poem
slumps on its knees with a sword-hilt between its
shoulders. Bulls are mostly the same in essentials,
and so are Campbell’s poems ; the pleasure is in seeing
him do it again perfectly. Even so, his work has
three intensities: his satire, loose and conversational;
his poems without satire, tight and best described in
his own claim, “as an artist, I have added a few solar
colors to contemporary verse”; and his third and
most intense poetry is distilled into symbols, very
close to “pure poetry,” in which essence mingles with
essence without reference to particular things, people
or places.
The Mithraic Emblems sonnets are this third
kind of poetry —the kind, by the way, that Chris
Brennan was writing—and so is “Pomegranates,” first
printed in a pamphlet some years back. In this book
they print a verse wrong ; it should be;
Pofnegranates, colder than the moon
In whom a maiden breast rebels
Forcing the smooth gold of their shells
To split with rubies to the noon.
This book has “moon” for “noon” and “noon” for
“moon.” I still think this is the finest poem he has
written ; but the new sonnets are in the same class.
He seems to have been living in Spain during the
1936 fighting, and perhaps the most exciting poems in
the book -are about the fighting in Toledo ; a boy
and girl killed fighting beside him ; four policemen
(he is not displeased it took four policemen) dragging
him to prison ; a scene or two in hospital; and a
superb poem about a duel between aeroplanes, one
of the best things he’s done. His attitude is charac-
teristic; no intellectualised horror, but an artist’s
delight in the spectacle, and individuality in the
feeling.
The big book (172 pp.) concludes with a terrific
attack on the effeminates he calls “the Charlies,”
which shows his satire more mellow and more devas-
tating (because more considered) than ever.
RONALD MCCUAIG.
[Mithraic Emblems, by Roy Campbell (Boriswood; The
Roycroft, Sydney; 11s. 3d.).]
Bengal Lancer Again.
F. Yeats-Brown, in his latest book. Lancer
Abroad (Gollancz ; 13s. net), has gone all religious.
Although it purports to be a travelogue of India, its
account of a tour of that country is the merest peg
on which to hang the author’s enthusiastic account
of his conversion to Oriental mysticism. This may
sound dull to those who were enamored of the virile
Bengal Lancer. It isn’t; for, apart from the fact that
the book contains a long and colorful flash-back to
pigsticking, Yeats-Brown’s spiritual adventures have
their exciting side.
In this book the author is touring India under
a journalistic contract to write about the material
progress of the country under British administration.
That side of India—British India —he reserves mostly
for his contracted articles and devotes this book in
large part to a revelation of Indian India —and of
Yeats-Brown, much more interesting.
People were puzzled in his earlier books to find
a man so material in his interests as to be a soldier
by profession, a pigsticker by diversion and an advo-
cate of war as an end in itself taking so kindly to
a mystical religion. One can only suppose that it is
the psycho-physical dualism of Yoga, with its power-
ful emphasis on physical fitness and bodily exercise,
which has made him prefer it to Christianity. “Any-
how, is there not,” asks the author, “a Yoga of Action
more exciting and more mysterious than the Yogas
of Contemplation?” He has fallen for Yoga outright.
As for India, Yeats-Brown, British down to the
tendons of his hind legs, champion of the
public-school system, and all for the Old School
Tie and the young and haughty proconsuls
who go out from Eton and Harrow to rule
the East, still believes that the Indians will be
able to rule India better than we rule it. He claims
that Indian India is generally more contented than
British India; that indigenous Administrations are
more popular than the British-cwm-Babu democracy;
that the British are immersed in their own affairs
and devastatingly dull as rulers ;• that the British legal
system has become hopelessly slow and cumbersome ;
that, in short, the system of the Maharajahs is like
a tree which has grown out of its natural soil and
possesses an endurance which no transplanted British
oak can equal.
Such is his finding, summarised mostly in his
own language.
The book abounds in mysteries and marvels
which the author saw with his own eyes and believes
to be genuine, to which the rope trick and fire-walk-
ing are as nothing—the self-mutilations (with im-
punlly), for instance, of the Whirling Dervishes under
religious ecstasy. He tells of personal encounters with
the Aga Khan and with Gandhi, whom he found
radiant with health and good humor. “Far from
being aged and a spent force, as had been hinted to
me, he seems as gay and vital as ever. Even the
lightest word from that toothless mouth speaks louder
to the masses than all the guns of the Indian Army.”
There are some passages of extreme beauty and
power in this book. It Yeats-Brown has never written
poetry in verse form it is not because he is incapable
of it. The book is bound to set people inquiring into
the religion of Yoga and trying it on in practice. Such
is clearly the author’s intention. And from all that
can be gathered from Yeats-Brown it could do them
no harm.
HECTOR DINNING.
A Diverting Fantasy.
Sever the Earth, by Jacques Spitz, translated from
the French by Margaret Mitchener (Bodley Head;
65.), is the story of what happened when the earth
—in 1946—split along a line at right angles to the
Equator, and the western half, carrying with it
America and adjacent seas, floated off into space with
slowly-increasing velocity. The incident did not occur
without alarming preliminary disturbances of nature.
Volcanoes everywhere erupted, tides receded until the
coast of Europe was unrecognisably changed and
there were storms of unprecedented violence. These
matters give Spitz opportunity for recording human
behavior in the face of possible catastrophe.
People who ordinarily talked only of themselves, and
were only interested in their own personal affairs,
now began suddenly to take an anxious interest in
Nature. It can be definitely stated that there was not
a single crime passionel during this whole period of
history.
The writer takes politics into his purview. He
notes that at the beginning of the disturbance a bust
of Tiberius fell on Mussolini’s head. He gives alleged
excerpts from editorial leaders in prominent English
and Continental newspapers, all very much in char-
acter, and official communiques from the various
Governments when the probable extent of the up-
heaval is realised. The British message, of course,
refers to the solidity of the national character. “No-
body who knows our people will believe we can be
beaten. Let the whole earth rise against us, England
still shall stand.” The German message makes a clear
scientific explanation available to all its people, “To
you, German men, and to you, German women.
Moscow broadcasts an appeal to all peoples to recog-
nise the Third International and join the Communist
movement. “Those Russians realised that one move-
ment invites another.” After the severance vast clouds
envelop the earth—or earths. Wireless communi-
cation with America, temporarily disrupted, is re-
established after frantic efforts. Characteristically
laconic is the first message that comes through:
“0.K.”
An interval elapses—during which an aeroplane
service between the Old World and the New is estab-
lished —before it is realised that the gap is widening
with increasing daily speed; then the rush of Ameri-
can expatriates yearning to get home becomes tremen-
dous. Other matters out of which Spitz extracts
entertainment are exports and imports, the settlement
of war debts and the apportioning of Christendom
among ecclesiastical rulers. While this is going on
it suddenly becomes apparent to scientists that one
of the two earths —still revolving around each other
—is going to collide with the moon. This eventually
happens. The period preceding the clash is one of
alternating hope and panic and that humor which is
not apparent to humanity except in the backward
glance.
Sever the Earth is not, as its nature at first leads
the reader to expect, either a contribution to sociology
or a very serious commentary on human conduct.
Its satire is of the lightest. It has been written for
the mirth and excitement that can be got from an
extravagant fancy. If it has a fault it is that the
quasi-scientific explanation is too detailed.
H. G. Wells with Madmen.
First glance at The Croquet Player (Chatto and
Windus: 4s. net) leads the reader to think that H. G.
Wells has remembered at long last that he is a story-
teller. It is a story, certainly, but a story with a
moral, and, as we read, the moral slowly and sureh
( Continued, on page 8.)


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”—and in every act.
“THE SENIOR STORE.'
YOUR AUTUMN SUN
Subdued
Checks
are the
Latest
HR
Mr
Hi
m
m
w
m
■r
’ rl*
in
■
H
JS
: t%
* v
I
H:
H
M
■vV
-
p A 1
Bh *
BrVuw
a;.;. ■
:' :
r
IM
n
r
V
\
: ff
H
m
*■*>
i *
vs
***
I# *1
! m
m ■ i
•;V
'
&
ms
;v : n
■
m
m
4Jts
Blues, Greys and Browns
to your individual measurements for
The tasteful shades, the smart patterns and the all-round quality of these Suitings will meet the
exacting demands of men who desire to be correctly dressed.
These All Wool Suitings feature a combination of two or three colours that blend tastefully into
rich shades. Grey Worsteds with Blue and Red; Blue Greys in self checks; rich Browns with
contrast checks or neat stripes. Also many Blues.
The tailoring is expertly done in our own workrooms; the measuring and fitting and all phases
of the work are personally supervised by expert cutters. And furthermore, good quality English
linings and interlinings are used. '
105-
Send for samples of these new suitings and an easy self-measurement form if you live out of town. Price 1 057-
Better qualities are priced at 126/-, 147/-, 168/-, 189/- and 120/-
® Mens Tailoring—Ground Floor, George Street. Freight paid to all railway stations in N.S.W. and seaports in the Commonwealth.


"A Man Can’t Be Blamed for His ”
BLOOD RELATION
BY ERIC LOWE
[“RELATIONS are like
boils: they’re in the
I \ blood, and a man
) can’t escape them —
or be blamed for them.
Andy Kerr was in
every way a worthy
person, but from birth he
was afflicted with blood-
relations. They started
him with a pessimistic
outlook on life, sapped his
energy, shamed him in
public, and in the end
they finished him. His
father was a journalist, his
mother was careless, his
Aunt Emma was arrested
for shoplifting, and two
of his cousins were mis-
sionaries. There were
others of lesser magnitude,
but in course of time they
went the way of all boils,
and when his Uncle Henry
was hanged he thought he
was free.
Andy settled down
after that as a stock-and-
station agent in a township
out west, and married a
girl whom he discovered
selling neckties in the general store. She bore him
no children, which was all for the best, but plenty
of goodwill, for she had been fed up with selling
haberdashery when Andy came along and had no
other prospects.
Andy admitted
that he had married
Mary Tighe with
malice prepense.
She was his ideal
woman, for, though
she could hardly
be called decorative, she was an orphan and, so far
he knew, as unconnected as Eve.
They lived in contentment for five years, and
Andy was well known in the district and well liked.
Then one afternoon, coming home as usual, he heard
a strange man’s voice in the sitting-room, and for
some inexplicable reason a cold shudder ran down
his spine. Hanging up his hat and coat, he walked
slowly in.
The man was sitting in Andy’s chair. He was
young, with curly black hair and sharp eyes. He
seemed quite at home—too much at his ease, really
—and Andy felt once again a shudder of apprehen-
sion, but he shrugged it from him as a left-over
memory of the old evil, and came smiling across to
Mary. She jumped up quickly to meet him, her face
flushed with pleasure.
“Oh, Andy!” she said. “This is my cousin,
Toby Ballard. He’s just arrived from Queensland.”
Andy’s heart leapt and turned over, like a diver
from an eighty-foot tower. He muttered a hopeless
sort of “Good day” ; then the full shock overwhelmed
him like a plunge into ice-cold water, and he rushed
from the room.
NOW Andy, with all his experience, should have
known how to deal with relations. As with
boils, it’s no use trying to hurry them. They just
have to be endured, and sooner or later they’ll come
to a head and bust. But for once Andy lost patience.
He wasn’t going to wait for Cousin Toby to come to
a head —he’d bust him, bust him good and proper
before he got fairly started!
His first charge carried him to the woodheap.
He had seized the axe and hefted it up, when the
local sergeant came into the yard.
“Hullo, Andy!” he said. “Doing anything in
particular?”
“Yes,” said Andy, short and surly. “Splittin’
wood.” And, thinking he’d better pretend he was
till the sergeant got out of the way, he drove the axe
with a vicious wallop into a junk of half-dead woolly-
butt.
“I thought maybe you’d come fishing,” the ser-
geant said. “It’s a good evening for it, and I’ve just
dug bait.”
“Can’t,” said Andy, giving a jerk and a grunt.
“I’ve got another job when this is finished ... to
hell with the axe!”
The sergeant grinned. He’d seen axes stuck in
half-dead woolly-butt before. He misjudged Andy’s
case, and, being an understanding man with a wife
of his own, he slipped quietly out of the yard. Maybe
when Andy had tugged at the axe a bit he’d sneak
away. The sergeant hoped he would. He hated to
see a man condemned to labor in his spare hours.
Andy was a good companion; and the fish were
biting in the river.
Andy jerked and swore ; and the more he jerked
and the more he swore the faster the axe seemed to
stick. He cooled down after a while and went fish-
Andy’s heart leapt and turned over, like a diver
from an eighty-foot tower.
ing. The thing wouldn’t come out, and he couldn’t
very well split Cousin Toby’s head with half a
hundredweight of wood clinging to the blade of the
axe. But he was convinced that nothing short of
extermination would meet the occasion, and after
his first burst of madness had spent itself he settled
down to think up more subtle ways of helping his
wife’s cousin across the Great Divide. And all this,
mind you, on principle; before he really knew what
Toby Ballard was like.
AS for Toby, he ran true to type. He smoked
Andy’s tobacco and cut his razor-strop. He tore
Andy’s raincoat and appropriated his favorite chair,
and was as full of misdirected energy as a bobtailed
bull in fly-time. He bought a mattock and spade
and rake, which he entered to Andy’s account, and
turned up the whole of the back yard. Vegetables,
he said, were the things to give the troops! Cabbages,
beans, lettuces —without them a man got Barcoo-rot,
tic douloureux, and split fingernails! Of course, when
he finished his digging it was too dry to plant any-
thing, so he left it—“in the rough, to sweeten” —but
when the rain came he was busy painting the house
and had forgotten all about vegetables. The yard
became a quagmire. Then he ran out of paint and
started building fowlhouses. So it went on, and all
the time Andy said nothing, but quietly bided his
time and went through in his mind all known methods
of murder, discarding them one by one as incom-
plete or dangerous.
Finally, two events happening simultaneously
gave him the first glimmerings of an idea. Toby
Ballard started to delve for gold on the common,
and Sergeant Thoms confiscated a case of gelignite
from a crowd of quarry-workers whom he’d caught
doing a bit of illegal fishing in the river.
With all the initial energy that characterised his
earlier efforts, Toby rigged windlass and rope, and
tore through the surface crust like an animated steam-
shovel. The shaft staggered downwards at angles
varying from eighty to sixty degrees, which worried
Andy a little, for if it should cave in before rock
was reached his scheme would miscarry. But it was
good holding ground, and Andy’s chief concern was
to keep Toby’s enthusiasm at fever-heat until the time
was ripe to put his plan into operation. For this
reason he encouraged Mary’s cousin to the utmost,
and even helped him by winding up dirt in the even-
ings after his own day’s work was done. When he
would come home to supper, tired yet cheerful, Mary
would say: “It is nice to see you two getting along so
well together. I knew you would appreciate Toby
when you understood him better. He’s really such a
sweet thing.”
Andy would kiss her gently and say “Yes, dear.”
ANDY’S plans were simple enough. He knew they
could strike rock in about fifteen feet; he knew
that in the usual course of events Toby’s enthusiasm
would then vanish; but he knew, too, that if a new
element of interest were suddenly introduced into the
proceedings the dying fire of Toby’s energy would
be fanned into leaping flame. That element of interest
he could supply at the proper time —with gelignite!
Blasting was something Toby had not thought of
and vastly intriguing.
The sergeant was only
too ready to be relieved of
the explosive. “I’ve been
keeping it in one of the
cells of the lockup,” he
told Andy ; “but if I bung
a drunk in there and
something happens I'd be
for it.”
“I can put it in the
iron shed at the bottom
of the paddock,” Andy
said, and added with a
grin: “Toby built it for
fertiliser and garden tools.
It's not exactly weather-
proof, but there's a good
padlock and chain on the
door, and it's well away
from anywhere. I might
let Toby have a couple of
sticks for his ‘goldmine’—
if he feels like going on
when he gets to sandstone.
1 hope he does ; the mine
keeps him occupied and
away from the house.”
The sergeant said that
was all right, and the two
of them laughed about
Toby and his funny ways
and his futile scratching
on a barren hillside ; and
together they carried the
case of gelignite from the
lockup to the shed in Andy’s paddock; but
Andy alone in his secret heart thought joyfully of what
would happen to Cousin Toby when his jumper-bar
made contact with something that wasn’t sandstone in a
place where sand-
stone should be. If
he wasn’t shunted
to hell he’d be
lifted to heaven,
and in either case
would be about
as obvious, after-
wards, as a bunghole without a cask. There would
be no doubt about the verdict, for Toby was a fool,
as everyone knew —who but the king of fools would
dig for gold on the common? —and his carelessness
was proverbial.
THOUGH Andy did his utmost to hold him to it,
Toby began to lose interest before very long.
His waning enthusiasm was shown in many ways,
but what disturbed Andy most was that Toby again
started talking of greengrocery and gardens.
“Vegetables!” Toby thumped the table. “That’s
what you need! But you’ll never grow ’em here 1
You can’t grow them unless the soil’s right, and
analysis shows that this soil of yours is lacking in
lime.”
Andy was relieved that Toby felt that way about
it, but he would have been doubly alarmed had he
seen him two evenings later stagger across to the
iron shed with a great bag of block lime on his
shoulder. He did not see him, nor did Toby see the
gelignite, though he dumped his burden with a grunt
of relief right on top of it.
Next day they struck rock, and immediately
Andy opened the subject of blasting. As he had
expected, Toby fell for it, and fell hard. Of course!
Why hadn’t he thought of it before? A few shots
and they’d be through this shingle in no time and
into pay-dirt. Could he use explosives? He was
brought up on ’em! Had a stick of “geli” for a
dodger! Ha, ha! Killed mice as a kid pelting them
with caps!
It was too late to do anything that night, though
Toby was eager; and next day it rained heavily, so
that Andy refused to leave the house —it was Sunday
anyhow!
On Monday morning, bright and early, Andy
went down to the iron shed to get some of the
explosive for Toby. He must let Toby play about a
little for a couple of days before laying the trap.
There was no hurry now. The end, he thought, was
very close.
And so it was . . .
As Andy turned the key in the padlock he was
conscious of a queer smell —and that was the last
thing he was conscious of! As he flung open the
door of the shed, something very big hit him very
hard, and there was no longer any Andy Kerr.
They collected all the evidence that was neces-
sary, and the coroner brought in a verdict of acci-
dental death and delivered a homily on the careless
use of explosives. Experts were of the opinion that
the wet had got at the lime and so generated heat,
and so when the door was opened—— Anyway, And)
went out in a blaze of glory, and everyone was sorry.
and after a decent period Toby married the widow
and carried on Andy’s old business.
Some might argue that, being only a wife?
cousin, Toby Ballard was not, in the strict sense, ’■
boil—l mean a blood relation.
He was! The bloodiest of the lot!


A Serial Story of the Queensland Coast
LEGEND for SANDERSON
By
VANCE PALMER
ILLUSTRATED BY
CLAIRE DALLEY.
Chapter 11.
1.
HIMMER of heat, unusual in July, made
rkjsj the acres of tall cane look like an enclosed
sea reflecting the sun. There were the head-
lands of mountain in the background, the
encircling foreshores of jungle, shadows of
■ underwater current, flicker and dazzle of
tiny waves in ceaseless motion.
It was as a sea that Besanck always thought about
the cane. Coming up with his towel from a swim in
the river, he gazed with blue, satisfied eyes at the
handful of figures busy with their knives on the edge
of the clearing—cutting, trashing, loading the trucks.
From a distance there looked to be a feverish intensity
in their movements. The intensity of ants driven by
obscure impulses they did not understand.
“Go it!” Besanck chuckled. “It is what you
believe in, although you pretend other things. To
ease your mind by wearing out your body. To let
all inner darkness leak out of you in sweat. To
spend yourself in effort and then sleep.”
He stood for a moment watching them, cool in
his singlet and duck trousers, relieved from dust and
heat, his fair skin unburnt by the sun, his hair curling
back in a natural marcel wave, even now when still
wet from his bathe. Not more than half-past three!
Good! They would be at work a couple of hours
yet, and while he prepared the evening meal he would
have time to shave, try some new records over on the
gramophone, shut out everything but his own thoughts
before the wash of noisy communal life swept over
him again.
At the door of the tin barracks he stopped, a
faint frown wrinkling his forehead as he saw the
big figure stretched out on one of the lower bunks.
Crisp black hair, eyes that burnt with dark intensity
in the swarthy face, features oddly youthful and
undeveloped in contrast with the powerful body.
Yet not one of the Italians, as he had at first thought.
It was the boy who had lately become so attached to
hirn, seeking him out in his leisure moments, trying
to inveigle him into conversation. A likeable young
fellow, eager and reasonably intelligent! But he
didn’t want anyone hanging about after him, burrow-
ing into the privacies of his mind, his past. This
sentiment about mateship! Was it in the blood of
these people, so that they felt lost if they tried to
live alone?
A smile flickered through his eyes as he went
over to the bunk: the foreign twist of his words gave
them added dryness. “Well, Neil? What is it
has got you down now? Love-affair, eh?”
Young Sanderson fended him off shamefacedly.
“Don’t be an angora, Leo. What d’you take me for?
D’you think the milk hasn’t dried on my lip yet?
This is nothing—just a touch of the sun.”
“A stroke? You have had a stroke?”
“Good Lord, no! I was staggering about a bit.
Conolly sent me in. Rotten luck to crack up before
the others —a big healthy brute like me.”
There was humiliation in his face, in the restless
movements of his body. Besanck sat down beside
him, rolling a cigarette. His lips were parted in a
friendly smile, his eyes had the idle malice of a cat’s.
It was pleasant to play with this boy who had such
a romantic conception of himself and his role in the
world. “You take pride in your muscles, eh?” he
twitted him. “Pride in being a good member of the
gang. To swing a knife with Conolly and the Italians
—keep in step with them. What a thing to be a
man, eh? One of the great working-class whose
labor holds up the world. But sentiment is not
enough. You are not yet evolved into a worker,
Neil; you have not grown a thick skull like those
others.”
“I can stick anything they can. You don’t think
I've lived on velvet this last couple of years, do you?”
“What? You have worked among the cane
before?”
“No, but I’ve tackled other jobs just as stiff.
Sinking postholes. Driving timber-trucks. Anything
that came to hand at the moment.
“And you liked it, eh?”
A crooked smile played about the young fellow’s
lips. “If I haven’t liked it I’ve lumped it. No use
growling about what couldn’t be dodged... You
don’t waste much time in growling yourself, Leo.
Yet you’re not as used to this sort of life as I am. The
racket of it must press a darned sight harder on you
than it does on me.”
Besanck gave a deprecatory movement of the
shoulders as he slouched across to the galley to pre-
pare some tea. “I don’t growl no: but I have
perhaps learned a little of how to dodge. To give
the least possible of myself.”
He took up the big dark pot, examined it fas-
tidiously, warmed it with water from the kettle.
There was a delicacy about his hands, which were
long-fingered but capable, carefully tended, scrubbed
patiently to take out the grease of washing-up water
and the grime of saucepans. His turn at cooking
had come during the second week of his work with
the gang, and the meals he had dished up had filled
the others with astonishment. How was it the stringy
mutton had become tender as turtle steak? What
gave those exciting flavors to the soups and curries?
“Lord!” said Conolly, the ganger, with the satis-
faction of a man fully nourished. “You’ve been at
the game before, Leo. Where the hell did you pick
it up?”
“Pick it up? You have heard who is king among
the blind? Once I helped the cook in a restaurant
in Odessa. He was an artist in his small way.”
“Then, for'the love of Mike, keep going. It’s
easier work than swinging a cane-knife, but I don’t
guess anyone will want to beat you for the job.”
"THAT arrangement had suited Besanck very well,
* for he hated the sun, hated physical exertion:
besides, he had suffered from cane-boils the season
before. And his cooking gave him a privileged posi-
tion in the gang. The other men did not chiack him
about his eccentricities or growl when he kept his
carbide lamp going late at night: they merely classed
him as an odd fish, even for a foreigner, and won-
dered what he found to jot down in the little black
book he always carried with him.
There was a quizzical look in his eyes as he
carried the tea over to the bunk. Was young Sander-
son only shamming? Had he come in for a talk?
He had long ago penetrated his show of toughness,
knew that beneath it lay an inexperienced boy, eager
for companionship, for the discussion of ideas,
reaching out always for intimate contact, clumsy in
his efforts to establish it.
“Here, drink this,” he said ; “you will perhaps
feel better. This climate! A vapor-bath, even in
winter. To be comfortable in it one wants no clothes
and the black skin of a nigger.”
“We ought to be able to stand anything they can.
Aren’t highly civilised peoples the most adaptable?
It suits me, anyhow.”
“Ah! To be stoical about it is part of your
pride, eh?”
“No: the hotter it is the better I like it. If I
cracked up to-day it wasn’t because of the sun. I
wouldn't stay here if I didn’t enjoy the life.”
Besanck chuckled. “You have the illusion of
perfect freedom? My dear boy, how lucky a posses-
sion ! To feel that you might go anywhere—that the
world is open before you—yet that you choose to
remain here in these so charming surroundings.”
Young Sanderson winced.
“I don’t intend to put in all my life bending my
back among the cane. It’s just a job, but it’s good
enough for the time being. Don’t you look at it
that way yourself? You’re here, aren’t you, because
of your own choice?”
“You have discovered that, eh?”
“Well, what the devil brought you here? What
is it keeps you tied?”
“Two questions, eh? Or only one? That is
what I often torment myself by asking. There is no
answer. It is sufficient, in most cases, to get the
question right. Yet I find this life amusing enough.
One gets time, now and then, to hear oneself think.”
He rolled a cigarette and went to the door,
looking out at the distant hills that had lost their
buoyancy at the approach of dusk and rested heavily
on the earth. Smoke from the riverside mill trailed
up in a thin plume, though its origin was hidden. A
plum-colored bloom was creeping over the sky, the
far jungles.
THE barracks was a tin shed in the lower corner of
the canefield, and for most of the week the eight
men who occupied it thought of nothing .but work,
rarely talking, even at meals. Early, at the first hint
of dawn, they rose from their bunks and, sleepily
hitching their trousers around their hips, blundered
along the rails to load the cane cut the day before.
Breakfast was a drowsy meal, with the sun rising
above the jungle-covered ranges, drawing up mists
from the damp earth: afterwards there was the long
day of working among the cane cutting, trashing,
loading with occasional smoke-ohs and spells for
meals: night found them tramping heavy-footed back
to the barracks. The miles of pea-green cane flowed
over them, dominating their minds even in sleep. It
was a river that had spread and covered all the flat
country, forming backwaters in the folds of the hills,
creeping up the lower slopes. Day and night a paddle-
steamer churned away, trying to make progress
against the current —it was the many-rollered mill,
crushing out the thin juice. Cane! They were sub-
merged by it, moving like weighted divers in a greenish
underworld, breathing a heavy air.
Besanck stood at the door, turning the image
over in his mind. Greenish underworld swayed by
no tides. Divers moving weighted over the sea-floor,
enclosed, straining for breath. Roar of paddle-wheels,
dimly heard, sounding day and night.
The cutters were straggling in Conolly, the
ganger, Carroll with his mate, the Parrot, the three
Italians. They threw down their cane-knives under
the unfruitful mango-tree by the tank and took turns
for a wash. Blowing and panting, their faces half-
covered by their towels, they blundered one by one
through the door of the hut, good-humoredly banter-
ing the young fellow on the bunk: “Well, you heard
the knock-off whistle before we did, Neil.” “Smelt
Leo cooking something good, eh?” “No, he had a
meet with one of those Dago girls down by the river.”
“Too much beer over the week-end, wasn’t it, Neil?”
“First time I’ve known you to toss in the alley.”
Joking they slipped into their seats around the
table and concentrated their attention on the corned
beef and sweet potatoes Besanck brought from the
galley. A mixed gang, they had been collected at
random by Conolly, a sober, bald-headed little man
with a reddish moustache and an air of being weighed
down by family responsibilities. The three Italians
had little English and not much inclination to use it.
They worked and ate with peasant deliberation,
dreaming of the day when they would possess cane-
farms of their own. Carroll, a tall, heavy-boned
fellow, was nearly as silent, though he had a slow,
unconscious humor when drink had loosened his
tongue. It was his mate, the Parrot, who usually
took up the burden of lightening the heavy air.
Lean, sun-blotched, his pale eyes streaked wjth
blood-veins, the Parrot had a vitality in his wizened
body, a touch of raciness in his talk, that often filled
the dreary barracks with a fresh flood of life. From
a spell of apathy he would awaken as if a spring
had bubbled up in him. Then he would quiz the
Italians about Mussolini, begin long arguments with
Carroll about the number of pigeons each had shot
THE STORY SO FAR...
Chris Sanderson, " ex-scrub-worker,
-contractor, -Cabinet Minister, undis-
charged bankrupt a hell of a lot of
other things as well,” dies in Port
Cowrie, a North Queensland coastal
town, mourned only by Laura Clune,
who runs Cayley’s, the town’s large new
tourist hotel, with whom he lived—-and,
in different manner, as one of the links
with a colorful past, by Corcoran, sub-
editor of the Port Cowrie “Times.”


the Sunday before, retail stories of his last visit to
the Chinese quarter of Port Cowrie, where seductive
flossies played fantan against a background of opium,
rotting bananas, raids by the police. He believed in
working hard for his money and spending it in a
single burst. During most of the summer he was to
be found hanging around the wharves of Port Cowrie,
looking badly in need of a bath and a meal: but for
fifteen years he had never missed a place in one of
the gangs when the cane-season opened.
Fatigue was in their attitudes as they sprawled
over the table, feeling for their tobacco-pouches and
watching Besanck clear away the empty plates. As
soon as they ceased talking the acres of green cane
seemed to creep in on them, flow over their minds.
Suddenly Conolly, who had been looking over
an old fragment of newspaper that had come around
some groceries, said with a quirk “1 say, Neil, this
old boy any relation of yours? Sanderson, the first
mayor of Port Cowrie. Christopher John Sanderson.
They’ve given him a bit of a spread.”
Fossicking in a corner for the cribbage-board, the
Parrot looked over his shoulder with a grin. “Why,
what’s the old got away with this time?
Another deal or another woman?”
“Neither,” said Conolly. “Tossed in the towel.
Seventy-four: he’d had a good spin. And you’d think,
to see the space they’ve given him, he was Phar Lap
and Carbine rolled into one.”
A flush had gradually spread up Neil Sanderson's
neck: he sat up in his bunk and leaned over. “Show
me.”
Conolly was looking at the date. “Damn it, the
paper’s a month old. June twenty-three. This is
near the end of July, isn’t it? A man never gets any
news in this place till it’s mouldy.”
He handed the torn sheet over as if he had lost
interest in it. But a vein of reminiscence had been
opened in the Parrot’s mind. “I knew Sanderson.
Yes, I knew the old swine. Got my first job working
on one of his contracts —that bridge over the Wannon.
Thirty-five years ago it was, when I was a nipper of
fourteen or fifteen. My old man was a foreman of
his for years, and —Lord, couldn’t he pitch tales about
him, too!”
The others, on the point of leaving the table,
looked back expectantly. “What sort of tales?”
“Well, what d’you think?” chuckled the Parrot.
“Not the sort, I’ll bet, they’re filling the papers up
with now he’s pegged. He was a dog, old Chris.
Always in the middle of some dirty business, and
always lying or buying himself out of it. Plenty of
money in his good days, plenty of suckers around him.
For a long time he was the big joss in Port Cowrie.”
THE only one of them who remembered old San-
derson, for both Conolly and Carroll came from
the south, the Parrot had a store of scandalous tales
about him and began to give them out dramatically,
his reddish eyes twinkling, his loose mouth twisted
beneath his prominent beak. It was as if he enjoyed
thinking about Sanderson. Most of the dead man’s
exploits, whether they concerned drink, women or
bribes paid out for contracts, were such as he could
relish: there was a rippish openness about them.
“But there was one time when the old boy missed
his step. That was when he’d settled to burn down
Cayley’s because the woman he was living with wanted
to build again. Old Corney, who used to work in the
bar there, was the man he’d squared to do the job,
and they’d fixed it for a Sunday night. ‘Terrible dis-
aster Sanderson wires to his girl next morning;
‘Cayley’s burnt to the ground.’ He’s waiting up in
the hills and she’s somewhere down along the coast —
both well out of the way. But the fun of it
was the pub didn’t go up in flames till next night.
There’d been a bit of a gale on the Sunday, and
Corney was scared stiff the fire’d spread. What a
laugh when the insurance people read the wire out in
Court! But Sanderson —no, he didn’t do time over
it. Hell, no! That sort of old bird never gets it
in the neck. It’s only poor , the like of
us”
He stopped as Neil, quietly slipping from the
room, blundered over a kerosene-box near the door.
The rest of the men were brought to attention with
a jerk: they followed the retreating figure with their
eyes till it was lost in the dark, then looked at one
another meaningly. “It was over a month old,” said
Conolly after a pause. “Surely to God he’d have
heard if the old chap was any relation of his. A near
relation, anyhow... But a man never gets any news
in this place till its mouldy.”
The Parrot, a little confused, was trying to
remember where his reminiscences had led him.
“What did I say about the old shyster? Anything
that looked like rubbing in the dirt? Well, how’s
a man to know in a camp like this? The last place
I’d have looked for anyone belonging to Sanderson
is on a job that means bending your back and earning
money honest.”
//.
HARDLY aware of where he was going, Neil
Sanderson had blundered out into the night,
finding his way down to the river that flowed,
dark and sluggish, through the miles of cane.
He had had a shock that left him, for the time being,
numb and deadened, wanting nothing but to get away
from the other men in the barracks, away from the
clatter of voices, the crackle of laughter, Conolly’s
sober eyes and the loose wriggling of the Parrot’s
mouth. Unseeingly he sat on the bank, watching the
velvety sucking water, lights of the roaring mill in the
distance, firefly of a fisherman’s lantern in midstream.
There was the hoot of an owl from a patch of scrub
higher up the river. Soft, rapid Italian voices sounded
from the road, where some people were stumbling
through the mud to an outlying farm.
“Dead!” came the echo. “Last night when you
dreamt about him he’d been in his grave over a month.
No point in all those rehearsals. No chance now for
you to meet him and have it out. This is the finish.
What’s ahead of you now?”
He was ashamed of the way the news had affected
him, generating a flood of confused feeling, creating
an emptiness in the pit of his stomach. What was he
letting himself get so churned up about? Hadn't he
hated the old man, fed himself on the idea of bringing
him down? Then why should he be moved because
he had passed out now? Everything the Parrot had
said about him was probably true. He was always in
the middle of some dirty business and always lying
or buying himself out of it. There were other things
about him outsiders couldn’t possibly know. He was
better dead.
Yet, sitting there in the dark, he was oppressed
by a sense of futility, of something gone from his life
that had given it meaning and intensity. You needed
that meaning, that intensity. You needed a sense of
conflict, of battling against evil forces. What else
could give drama to your days, make the long spells
of hard work come easy? Bending your back among
the cane, sweating among the powdery trash, you
could imagine yourself coming into your own, a leader
of the working class, toughened by experience, proof
against any merely personal ambition, helping to
organise the revolution that would wrest power from
the old wasters who had taken possession of the
country and were making it over in their own image.
Power: it flowed through you, made you more than
yourself as, with the knowledge of being a voice
of the risen masses, you looked into the grinning eyes
that symbolised all the corruption to be swept away.
“Old blatherskite! You can’t bluff me with your
damned show of humor. It was you who did the
talking last time: now it’s my turn.”
Triumph! Recompense for the humiliating
memory of his dumbness at that other interview.
He had been taken at a disadvantage from the begin-
ning. Nothing his mother had told him had prepared
him for that broken-down old rip, fuddled with
whisky, brimming over with a boozy amiability, who
had received him in the bedroom of his hotel...
“Come to look me up, eh? Lord, I’d forgotten you’d
grown out of knickers —hell of a lot of things a man
loses count 0f”... He saw himself standing by the
window, talking jerkily about the funeral, his difficulty
in straightening things out, his trip up from Brisbane
in the stokehold, finally hinting that he must have
money to see him through his engineering course: he
saw his father pottering about the room in his slippers,
yawning, knocking the ashes of his pipe into an
empty vase.
“Engineering, is it? Well, that’s all right. As
good a game as any money in it when you know
the ropes. But you don’t want to spend your best
days loafing round a university. School of life, boy
that’s the one to win your experience in. To get
anywhere you’ve got to begin at the bottom, like I
did. Take your coat off. Work your way up. Look
at the men who’ve left their mark on this country.
where d’you think they started? Not at the feet of
some old dribble-mouth of a professor. No. they
got out, learnt how to take the knocks that were
coming to them. I could have done with a bit of
engineering knowledge myself when I was a youngster,
but before long—able to buy the men who had it.
Buy any God’s quantity of ’em.”
And then the unforgettable insult that still
brought heat to his blood. “I oughtn't to have mar-
ried, y'know, my boy. Not a marrying man, really.
Women —the one that suits you to-day mightn’t suit
you to-morrow. Mistake to hobble yourself. But
your mother —flung herself at my head. Leap year,
perhaps.”
What had happened after that? He hardly
remembered. An explosion that seemed to take place
inside his own brain, a crash of chairs, the girl burst-
ing into the room with a frightened face, her fingers
convulsively clutching a yellow duster. He had found
himself striding along the waterfront in a glare of
sun, bareheaded, icy-cold, half-persuaded that the
police were after him, ready to charge him with
murder.
But his real life (he could see it now) had begun
at that hour. Something had been born in him when,
penniless and stranded, he had begun to hunt for
jobs and take on responsibility for his own future.
This tough working-class world into which he had
been thrown unprepared: he would
adapt himself to it, make it his own.
The deep passion aroused by that
casual insult to his mother spread
through him, coloring his days. It
was something to live for, the
avenging of that insult. Didn’t he
owe everything to his mother?
Hadn’t she paid for his upbring-
ing out of her own earnings, teach-
ing music, arranging concerts on
the wireless, making one shilling do
the work of three? Wasn’t there
inspiration in her very pride, in the
way she never said a resentful word
about the man who had married
her and thrown her over, the way
she had covered up, pretending it
was only because of some slight
difference they were separated and
that any day might bring them to-
gether again?
i ■
HE found himself talking in-
wardly to Besanck, who
seemed to be sitting on the bank beside him, ready
for the first time to listen to his confidences.
Somehow he expected Besanck to understand.
“I was kidding to you, Leo, when I let you believe I
was here because I liked it. Many a time I’ve wanted
to chuck in the towel, crawl back and wheedle a soft
job out of people I know. What kept me going was
the memory of my mother. I’ve never told you about
her, never talked of her to anyone. She was a
wonderful woman, beautiful, with a way one of
Raphael’s Madonnas. Yet alive —gay sort of courage.
We lived in a little house near the river, kept to our-
selves. Music, Scott and Dickens in the evenings.
She wanted me to do something in the world: all
her mind was concentrated on that. And so she
slaved away at teaching youngsters their scales, wear-
ing her life out to keep a home going, hiding anything
that might worry me —that the old man didn’t send
her a penny, that he was living with another woman,
that she had a growth eating into her vitals. Can
you wonder I’ve got such a veneration for her? She
was closer to me than anyone else has ever been, and
I can’t help feeling she’s alive and near still.”
The trouble was it wasn’t true: at least not the
emotional part of it. He couldn’t make it true, in spite
of the way he had repeated it over and over. There
had always been a deadness in his feeling for his
mother: there was still. The sense of a brooding
presence hovering about his boyish games, trying to
penetrate his thoughts and interests, had been irksome,
a load on his spirit. How he had schemed to get away
from her, shutting himself up in his bedroom to read,
planning holidays down the bay with other boys,
staying out late as he grew older! He could even
understand, writhing inwardly at his own impiety, the
relief his father must have felt at breaking free from
the heavy atmosphere of her affection.
Staring down at the river in the dark he tried
to call up her pale, over-sensitive face, the image of
her figure as she came in at the gate, pausing to stare
at a thrush in the wilting acacia. His mind became
troubled. Why was it she had become thin, ghostlike,
unreal, so that he found it hard to visualise her
features, remember the sound of her voice?
“You’re not a bit like me, Neil. You’ve got your
father’s look, his way of plunging into things, brushing
other people away.”
For a moment he caught the echo of her tone,
rueful yet resigned, as if she had gradually become
aware that it was not her fate to leave her imprint
on him, or on anything else that had come into her
life.
No, it was his father who really lived in h' s
mind, dominating his thoughts, giving heat to his
imagination. That tall, shaky-legged figure padding
about the room with his pipe between his fingers,
glancing over his shoulders with twinkling, belligerer
eyes. It had poured life into him, strengthening hi>
will. Not once in the last eighteen months had he
felt released from his sense of having a mission. i°
wipe the grin off that leering face, awake some recog-
nition on it that he was his mother’s son, come back


to defend her memory. Was all that passion to seep
away now his father had evaded him? Had his
father really vanished from the earth, or would he
remain alive in one corner of his mind, eternally
chuckling, eternally triumphant?
Phrases of the obituary notice were running
round and round in his head. He saw Besanck
scanning the torn scrap of paper, looking up with
blue, serious eyes to question him. The blood rose
to his head.
“It’s all boloney, Leo: don’t believe a word of
it. They think it’s decent to cover a man with that
sort of slaver when he’s dead. Everyone knows the
truth, or part of it, but they’ll pretend in public that
they don’t. I’m not going to pretend. I’m going to
show people what I think of him and all he stood for.
That’s the only thing I can do for my mother now.”
A soft rain had begun to fall. The lights of the
mill showed up like those of a ship in a fog, and its
faint pounding was that of a screw churning the
water. Darkness, heavier than before, crept out of
the cane, stole up from the still river.
DESANCK was the only one awake when he went
] — > inside, lying stretched on his bunk with the
carbide lamp set on a kerosene-box near his head so
that it could throw its light over his shoulder on to
the printed page. He was reading an English dic-
tionary, jotting down words with a stub of pencil.
As the door slammed he looked up, put away his
book. “Some coffee is there. I kept it hot by the
fire... More rain, is it?”
There was an ingratiating note in his voice. Even
his eyes, usually so aloof and sardonic, had a gleam
of friendly concern in them. He lay back on the
pillow and felt at the head of his bunk for cigarette-
papers, his attitude a preparation for talk.
Neil muttered something inaudible and took a
mug from the rack. He was disconcerted by the
sympathy of those probing eyes, by all he had
imagined himself telling Besanck out there by the
river. After watching him for a few moments
Besanck slipped out of his bunk and went to the safe,
bringing out biscuits and cheese, with some sweetened
brownie. They sat down
together, and for the first
time Neil felt a warmth
flow out from his com-
panion and penetrate him.
“This is the chance
you’ve been looking for,”
an inner voice urged.
“He’s ready to make
friends. And you’ve been
waiting for that ever since
you knew him. Why not
open out to him now?”
They followed the retreating
figure with their eyes till it
was lost in the dark.
But there was a hard knot inside him that would
not unloosen. He had no words: the ones he used
in inner communion seemed strained and sentimental.
Their talk was jerky, fragmentary: the heavy breath-
ing of the men in the bunks around was like a weight
upon them. Conolly snored heavily: one of the
Italians lay awake, with drowsy, slug-dark eyes turned
to the light. As he rose to clear away the cups
Besanck said suddenly “Your father —it was your
father who died, eh?”
Neil nodded perfunctorily.
“No flowers, Leo. There isn’t any reason for
me to take it too solemnly. I hadn’t seen him twice
since I was a youngster —we hardly knew one an-
other.”
“Ah! Is that the way of it? You were unlucky.”
“Perhaps. Perhaps not.”
For awhile Besanck stared at him, an amused
look quickening his blue eyes. “Well, anyhow, you
have philosophy. That is what it is to grow up,
become mature. You find suddenly that you can
look at life, at death, without sentiment. No need to
pretend any more that one is always good, the other
a calamity. I have been reading about your father
and hearing them talk. An original. What you call
a character, eh? And with plenty appetite for enjoy-
ment! Women, good living. You had admiration
for him at a distance, eh?”
Neil finished his coffee and pushed back his
chair. “No.”
“Not? So there was a quarrel, eh?”
“Give it a bone, Leo. I’ll talk about him some
other time. Not to-night.”
He went to his bunk and drew the blanket over
his head. Curious how, when it came to the point,
he could not speak about his father with detachment,
even to Besanck. Mist came to his eyes, a thickening
to his throat. There must be threads of feeling,
sensitive to any touch, binding him to the dead man
still.
111.
SUMMER was already under way before the
cutting finished. The wide stretches of flat
country along the river had a shorn look, smoke
from burning trash smarted in the nostrils, inky
masses of cloud loomed up over the jungle-covered
ranges, nearly every afternoon bursting in downpours
of warm rain. At night half-quenched fires sprang
up again with a fiercer glow, a moist heat made the
air heavy, mosquitoes issued from their breeding-
places in pools and quagmires.
Neil Sanderson stood at the door of the hut with
his few belongings strapped together in a swag, watch-
ing Besanck clear away the traces of the last meal.
He had eighty pounds in his wallet: the world was
before him: but though the rest of the gang had gone
he hung around, unwilling to take leave of Besanck,
upon whom he had come to depend in a way he
resented yet had to admit. There was such a per-
versity about Leo. One day he was friendly, even
intimate, pouring out all the thoughts in his mind,
making direct approaches to the personal affections:
the next he had withdrawn into himself and dropped
a shutter over his eyes. They had boxed together
under the mango-tree, gone for walks to the hills,
lain talking for hours on the river-bank at nights,
yet at times Neil felt he knew no more of him than
on the first day they had met at the barracks.
He did not want to go away without him now.
For all his casual associations with men on this job or
that, he had never had a real mate, never particularly
wanted one. The ordinary happy-go-lucky contacts
that began one day and ended another had been
enough for him. There was Conolly, for instance:
he couldn’t have hoped for a place in the gang if
Conolly hadn’t been his stablemate in hospital the
time he was laid up with a broken collar-bone: but
now they had parted with hardly a word. His friend-
ship with Besanck was different: it was based on
interests other than the common ones of their daily
life; shot, too, with flickers of personal feeling. Yet
this infernal instinct for withdrawal in Leo, this
deliberate hanging-back! Was it because of the half-
dozen years between them?
He stood fingering the straps of his swag.
“When’re you going, Leo? As soon as you’re through
with the clearing-up?”
“Possibly. There seems no hurry now the others
are gone.”
“And where are you bound for? Port Cowrie?”
“Why not? The boats come in there. Myself, I
am always happy when I can see boats. To look at
one and say ‘Will Igo to San Francisco? No, there
is nothing to be seen there except the last improve-
ments in plumbing. I will go to the west coast of
Japan, where they still know how to live.’ That has
kept me amused, often, when 1 had not the price of
a dinner.”
He seemed to be talking to the enamel pot into
which he was looking. His manner was external, his
real thoughts hidden away. Quite definitely Neil had
a feeling that Besanck wanted to get rid of him. That
turned back bent over the pot, that air of preoccupa-
tion—didn’t they mean that the association of the
past few months had come to an end? And yet only
a couple of nights before Besanck had asked ques-
tions about the road along the ranges to Port Cowrie
and had seemed to take for granted they were going
to foot it together.
“There’ll be a rail-motor in a couple of hours,”
he said, “but I’m going to walk. Climb up the ranges
and take my time on the road. It doesn’t much
matter to me when I get there. I’d like a long spell
of just loafing—thinking over what to do next. What
about you, Leo?”
Besanck had turned to the corner where his
belongings were lying about and was looking at them
absently. It was as if he hadn’t yet considered where
he was going and how. “Perhaps I’ll walk. Yes, why
not? After living like this with a mob for months —
half a year—a man wants to be alone. To discover
himself again.”
He picked up a letter, read it through slowly, tore
it in pieces. His slight figure in its soiled cotton singlet
and dungarees was heavy with lethargy. Yet there
was an intentness about it, too, an effect of curling
in upon itself. Almost before he realised it, Neil
was on the road with his swag up, making for the
ranges. His ears were tingling, the blood burning
behind his eyes.
‘‘ IS NOCKED back! ” he was repeating. “Every
I time I’ve made an advance toward being
friendly he’s knocked me back... Don’t take too
much for granted, young Sanderson: I’m a man, and
you’re only a boy yet... Well, this finishes it. Damn
him! Does he think I want to hang on to the tail of
his shirt!”
He was filled with a furious
energy, a desire to assert his in-
dividual being. The passion of
resentment against his father
which for the last two years had
given a driving force to his life
was now turned against Besanck.
He wasn’t going to crawl to any-
one, he told himself as he swung
along toward the ranges, egg-
shell-blue in the shimmering
light of morning: he wanted
friendship only if he could have
it on terms of equality. There
was virtue in living alone, being
dependent on no one, leaving
every experience behind with as
little regret as if it were the ashes
of a dead campfire. Freedom!
New mates, new tracks.
Yet as the miles of dusty
road passed behind him he was
oppressed by a feeling of
disappointment, even of loss.
You couldn’t just live from day to day. Nothing
had much meaning unless you had someone
with whom you could talk it over. And Besanck’s
friendship (he had to admit it) meant more to him
than his could ever mean to Besanck. Was it possible
that they could achieve equality when he was the
seeker, Besanck the one to be sought? For the last
few weeks he had let himself dream of how they
would go off together when the cutting season was
over, wandering about the country as long as their
money lasted, sharing all kinds of adventures, talking
their throats dry around the campfire at night. Yet
how little he had to give, how much he wanted! His
own life seemed bone-bare in the light of Besanck’s
{Continued on page 50.)


reduces the story to the stature of an excuse. It
narrates, in the first person, an experience which over-
took Georgie Frobisher—who would have been a
champion croquet player if championship had not
become so vulgar—when he was taking a guileless
little holiday at Les Noupets with his aunt.
He meets a madman, Dr. Finchatton, who tells
him the story of a haunted marshland where fear
and evil lurk in the ground to take terrifying shape
in ever-recurring deeds of violence. In the marsh
archaeologists have found the gigantic bones and
brutish skull of a Neanderthal man, and the madman
thinks that it is the ghosts of this race, our ancestors,
who for thousands of years had lived and bred there,
and now lie buried in the swamp, who are slowly
drawing the present inhabitants back to their own
level and have infected them with their own lust
for cruelty and violence. The psychotherapeutist
Dr. Norbert, in charge of Dr. Finchatton, more mad
than his patient, intervenes to explain these halluci-
nations to Frobisher. There was no such place as
the sinister marshland.
“And the reason why he has made it all up into that
story....is because the realities that are overwhelming
him are so monstrous and frightful that he had to trans-
form them into this fairy tale about old skulls and
silences in butterfly land in the hope of getting them
down to the dimensions of an hallucination, and so
presently expelling them from his thoughts.”
Norbert enlarges Finchatton’s image into a pic-
ture of the modern world. The madman’s halluci-
nation has broken the ground for this other picture
which it is Wells’s real intention to display. He is
thinking of the world’s insane trend towards a war
which can only prove suicidal. He discovers a rather
surprising source for this irrational violence. He
states his theses through Norbert:
“A century or so ago... .men lived in the present far
more than they do now. Their past went back four
or five thousand years, their future hardly went as far:
they lived for now, and what they called the eternities.
They knew nothing of the remote real past. They cared
nothing for the real future. That” —and he nodded at
the caveman’s skull —“just wasn’t there. All that was
buried and forgotten and out of life. We lived in a
magic sphere, and we felt taken care of and safe.
And now, in the last century or so, we have broken that.
We have poked into the past, unearthing age after age,
and we peer more and more forward into the future.
And that’s what’s the matter with us. We have broken
the frame of the present and the past, and the long black
past of fear and hatred that our grandfathers never
knew of, never suspected, is pouring back upon us. And
the future opens like a gulf to swallow us up. The
animal fears again and the animal rages again, and the
old faiths no longer restrain it. The caveman, the
ancestral ape, the ancestral brute have returned. So jt
is. 1 can assure you I am talking realities to you. It is
going on everywhere.”
Science, it appears, has lifted the lid of the
Pandora box of humanity’s past. Man’s illusion of
his nobility was his only bulwark against the bestiality
of his inheritance. Science has stripped away the
illusion, and we are face to face with the caveman.
The remedy—and what is Wells without a remedy—
is to be giant-minded.
“Only giants can save the world from . complete
relapse, and so we —we who care for civilisation have
to become giants. We have to bind a harder, stronger
civilisation like steel about the world. We have to make
such a mental effort as the stars have never witnessed
yet. Arise, O Mind of Man or be forever defeated.”
This is a little vague. Mr. Wells is taking refuge
in the insanity of his characters. It is not, in any
case, a very profound thesis. It has much in common
with those brilliant improvisations, like The Time
Machine, for which he was once famous. The book
is cleverly managed. Wells grinds his corn between
the cherubic Frobisher, the secure and unimaginative
devotee of sport —the perfect nether millstone and
the two impassioned madmen. One exaggeration
corrects the other. The result is not a scientific state-
ment but an effective image. It is written, you might
say, ambidextrously ; it is at once serious and comic,
logical and insane. Although short, The Croquet
Player appears to have grown to its full stature. Wells
has exploited his theme with his usual thoroughness.
A Novel Vindicating America.
It is rather a surprise when Phyllis Bottome’s
latest novel, Level Crossing (The Bodley Head ;
7s. 6d.), which begins domestically in New York and
proceeds to an idyll in Scotland—a faint suspicion
arises that the author was not quite sure whether it
was Scotland or Ireland —turns suddenly into a story
of gangsters and kidnapping.
Cyrus P. Lane is a wise and kindly millionaire
of Wall-street; his wife is a spoiled and tyrannous
beauty; their son Jim insists on independence, and
earns his living running a garage and winning speed
races. Jim resists his mother’s schemes to marry
him to a beautiful and “impermanent” girl in her
own set, since that would trap him into a way of
life he hates and despises. On a visit to Scotland
he meets, loves arid weds Deidre, a staunch and simple
creature, the daughter of an earl. After grievous
trouble with her mother-in-law Deidre is captured by
gangsters and held to ransom. Her baby is born in
captivity, and she realises that when her ransom is
collected she will be murdered and the child dangled
as a further bait before the husband. With courage,
resource and the help of one of her captors she
escapes, and the story ends happily.
That is the bare bones of the narrative, but there
is an intention behind it. The theme is America —
a vindication without whitewash. The characters are
clearly to be taken as representative. Jim is Young
America, the Hope of the Future; his mother is the
logical result of a national tendency to belittle its
women by pampering them ; Deidre is the best sort
of immigrant, willing to give herself heart and soul
to the new land. Jim is the mouthpiece of American
idealism. This idealism is most intentionally punc-
tured by the kidnapping incident, but in the end it
is allowed to rise from the ashes, having been tried
in the tire and found worthy, after all.
The book is not watertight in either plot or style.
It has ingenuous and naive moments that discredit
it, perhaps, more than they should, and sometimes it
is too tall for comfort, as when Deidre and her baby
are put for safety in a lion’s cage, the lioness and
family being in residence. The end, too, is unsatis-
factory, for Deidre, placed in a painful dilemma
between honor and justice, is allowed to have her
cake and eat it—the time-honored privilege of brave
and beautiful women in books. Miss Bottome really
wants things both ways herself, and tries to make
a New World omelet without breaking any Old
World eggs.
Virtue Still Triumphant.
It is an interesting social phenomenon that cock-
tails, night clubs and divorce can be assimilated into
the life of a heroine of romance without impairing
her purity. These romantic heroines are virtually
indestructible.
Gillian Dilly had the misfortune to be irresistibly
beautiful. At 17 she married to escape from a
drunken father who had broken her gentle mothers
heart. Colin Patch proved a brute of another color:
she was at once his toy and the butt of his frequent
ill-humors. So Gillian left him to become a manne-
quin ; but that did not prove a very safe profession ;
it was not long before one of the characters re-
marked, “Men are beasts.” Gillian was a milk-white
doe, pursued but never caught. Her husband, in h(s
malice, divorced her with every possible discomfort.
Then one of her friends, quite innocently, set her
up in a tea-room, and that, if anything, was worse..
She had to be pleasant to her customers, and they, in
return, took her out to dinner and to night clubs,
stood her innumerable champagne cocktails and
made love to her in taxis, or, if they were
really nice, broke their hearts in stoical silence.
These things happen so often that it is im-
possible to keep count. Only Gillian remains
unchanged. One brief idyll after another ends in
tragedy, and she at last seeks refuge with Nature in
the country. Just as the book ends a new aspirant
called Tony appears Phcenix-like from the ashes of
past loves —and he looks a winner.
That is Women Are Born to Listen, by Norah
C. James (Cassell; 7s, 6d.). It is a rather insistent
reminder that one of the functions of fiction is wish-
fulfilment, and that there are something like a million
more women than men where the book was printed.
Through its flimsy pages can be glimpsed a long
procession of girls and women coming home from
their jobs to dreary bed-sitting-rooms and turning
from the contemplation of even drearier futures to
reading of a Gillian as virginal as themselves but
under far, far greater provocation—turning up her
nose at a host of suppliant males.
A Warrior of Heaven.
Those who come to Fighting Angel, by Pearl
Buck (Methuen; Angus and Robertson ; 7s. 6d.),
expecting a regular novel with a romantic interest
will be disappointed, but those who take it for what
it is, a thinly-disguised biography of a missionary in
China, purporting to be written by one of his daugh-
ters —“one of whom became a novelist” —will find
it good reading.
Andrew’s soul was dedicated to God and his
mind to John Calvin, and the tender necks of his
young family evidently felt the pinch of the hard
yoke of his excessive piety. Born of a rural-dwelling,
old and deeply religious family, Andrew, a physically
Lincolnesque figure, after a harsh, laborious and
mentally-starved boyhood, set off with young wife
for the mission fields of China. He was one of a
generation of dogmatists, fierce opponents of inter-
denominationalism, who wrangled bitterly over such
matters as the correct method of baptism even while
they struggled to spread “a religious imperialism of
the West” throughout China.
Andrew was the perfect saint, gently, kindly,
smilingly and arrogantly sure of himself, and quite
without consideration for himself in his zeal for the
work he had undertaken. His daughter’s account of
his life is almost reverential, but it is tinged with
resentment. His heart’s yearning was toward the
millions of Chinese souls awaiting salvation, and he
diverted a large part of his salary to their use. He
obliged his wife and children when travelling on river
boats to do so, not in the quarters reserved for Euro-
peans, but among the natives, and to live in native
hovels as he pushed further out and on into China.
During a brief holiday in America he humiliated his
family by declining to give well-earned tips to rail-
way porters —he needed the money for his work in
China —and he bought packets of sandwiches in pref-
erence to restaurant meals, calculating the difference
in price in terms of copies of the New Testament.
Once, in a romantic, adolescent moment, 1 asked,
“Mother, were you and Father.ever in love?”
She was sewing at some everyday garment and for
a second I could not fathom her look at me. It was
as though I had opened a secret, unconsciously. Then
the look closed.
“Your father and I have both been very busy
people,” she said, her voice practical and a little brisk.
Then she turned a hem quickly and went on sewing.
Andrew’s shortcomings as a husband and father
were the reverse side of his virtues as a pastor. Of these
his daughter takes pride in telling, and the portrait
she gives is heroic in its proportions. .There was no
hardship he was not willing to endure, no labor was
too arduous and no danger too great to be faced.
When all the rest were running for their lives during
the Boxer rebellion he remained at his post; again.
in his old age, during the more recent civil troubles,
he gave of himself happily, and was unaware of his
own heroism. He translated the Bible into the ver-
nacular, built up a great field organisation, and estab-
lished a school for Chinese preachers. When, after
a prolonged visit to America, he went forth again
on his donkey, men left their work among the crops
and ran beside him calling, “The Old Teacher has
come back.”
The biographical method chosen by the author
leaves something to be desired, in that the character
is necessarily seen wholly from without; he cannot,
as in fiction, be revealed through his thoughts; and
Miss Buck, as biographer, is too honest to allow
herself the prerogatives of a fiction-writer also. On
the other hand, her method allows her a wider reach
in showing the background of Andrew’s life. She
rapidly sketches in some of the more tragic failures
among missionaries ; lonely men and women whose
eventually uncontrollable repressions brought them to
disgrace. Andrew escaped all this, and in extreme
old age his daughter found him such employment
that he never knew his great day had passed. After
his death she says of her saint:
But Andrew never touched the fringe of human life,
he never knew its stuff, he never felt its doubt nor
shared its pain. And so he lived, a happy soul, and
never knew he died.
Gunther's "Inside Europe."
Far and away the best of almost countless books
attempting much the same thing, John Gunthers
Inside Europe (Hamish Hamilton ; 12s. 6d. net) has
been turned out in a new edition, making its contents
up to date to the overseas autumn of last year.
Anyone in search of a book that gives account ot
the mixed internal condition of the whole of Europe
need seek no further. Apart from its live, topical
interest it makes capital entertainment, being brightly
written in narrative vein, crowded with good char-
acter sketches and accounts of the careers of not only
the leading political and other limelighters of tangled
Europe, but of the scores of secondary figures as well.
This is not a peep-hole book. It contains no
gossip for gossip’s sake. But it tries to tell the intimate
story of these leaders, the personal sources of their
power, the reasons for their impact on history. Who
are these men who dominate our lives?
What history is likely to make of Gunther's
findings on these men is another matter. Gunther
reads like one making an honest attempt to picture
them as he has seen them.
Surrealism.
Surrealism (Faber and Faber; Angus and
Robertson ; 18s. 6d.) is edited by Herbert Read, with
contributions by Breton, Davies, Eluard and Hugnet.
It is an exposition of the aesthetic principles and deri-
vations and the religious, moral and sociological asso-
ciations of that allegedly creative impulse in which
the authors are prominent. Surrealism— alternatively
super-realism—produces those puzzle pictures, sculp-
tures and apparently unrelated collections of mere
articles which tend either to annoy or amuse the lay-
man. Read, who contributes the longest essay,
reasons Surrealism out to its logical conclusion. He
says: —-
it will perhaps be seen how certain “found
objects” which are not the work of human artists, but
the products of natural forces, come to be cherished
by Surrealists. If I am walking along the beach and my
eye catches a sea-worn and sun-bleached knot of wood
whose shape and color appeal to me, the act of identifi-
cation makes that object as expressive of my per-
sonality as if it had actually carved the wood into shape.
Selection is also creation.
The 96 plates accompanying the text show Surrealism
in all its manifestations, including some of the kind
Read refers to. The book is a well-produced and
apparently authoritative work.
Limited Editions Society.
An elaborate prospectus, finely printed after the
style of the Golden Cockerel Press, announces the
formation of an Australian Limited Editions Society
“with the twofold object of publishing historical,
literary and artistic books of interest and merit, and
at the same time providing the printers of Australia
with an opportunity of displaying their skill in fine
book production.”
The prospectus could be clearer on whether me
annual subscription (£3 35.) will cover the cost of al
the society’s publications to the subscriber, but that
seems to be the intention. Membership is to be
limited to 500, and the books will go to members
only—there will be no public sale.
Officers of the society are about as solid a buncn
as could be got together. John Lane Mullins is presi-
dent ; Jordan, C.J., W. O. Fairfax and J. R. McGregor
are vice-presidents, with Keith Murdoch vice-pre
dent for Victoria; C. H. Bertie, Leon Gellert, Rayner
HofT W. H. Ifould, C. Lloyd Jones, Lionel Lindsay,
J. J. Quinn, S. Ure Smith and A. H. Stuart are counci.
and Benjamin N. Fryer is secretary.
First book listed for publication is historical, with
the sweeping title A Narrative of the Voyage to
Botany Bay, with an Account of New South Wales,
Its Production, Inhabitants, etc by Captain Watki
Tench First published in 1789, A Narrative (etc.
ran to three editions, and the society’s edition wiU
be based on the third. Adrian Feint a » d Grew ‘
will be responsible for illustrating and format.
“Wordman”: Makers of dictionaries like the
rest of us must relieve the strain now and then b>
a little levity. The new edition of the Shorter Oxford
defines “to make whoopee” as “to have a goo i -
go on the razzle-dazzle."


What’s the difference
between a Cricket Ball
and A Good Whisky?
asks Johnnie Walker
?$V
V-.;.
> f w. wm
f'
*" /• « -a
ry..n
m
m
>K
„ A CRICKET ball,” said Johnnie
Tv Walker, taking one in his hand,
“has a seam—you can see and feel where the join comes
—and so it is with poorly-blended whiskies. But a good
whisky, like Johnnie Walker, is somewhat like a billiard
ball, perfectly smooth; the blends of rare whiskies are so
skilfully ‘married’ that there are no ‘edges’ to the whisky.
“Roll a few drops—neat—round your palate; you will
find that roundness and depth and harmony which make it
worth while to say ‘A Johnnie Walker, please,’ instead
of ‘A whisky-and-soda.’ ”
MWMer
i f
mm
mm
WAhKER
Born 1820 still going strong
JOHN WALKER & SONS, LTD., LO NDON, KILMARNOCK AND SYDNEY.


*
ROYAL
PURPLE
PARA
m
mm.
mm
w m
mm
'
m t
K'
■
I
mm
mm
HI
M
u
ml
H
M
1 I
■
1
■
**
■
■n
■
WM
H
'>>>*•£
■ 1 :
Slfl ■
■
HI
■
B
n
.
*
W
K
ill
9
I
/%
SsT
#
H
■
■
H
■
■ : HI
H
B
i m
m
v; -iSS
: ! 6
m
■ H
J
1
49
H
■ *
B
A
■
m
amm
lr
m
mm
i
; 1
«r
m
■
✓
si
4'
H
ra I
*'
Ki
m
H
Aerial View of Seppeltsfield, Showing Vast Storage and Maturing Cellars.
v me


SEEING FAIR.
“At the instance of Britain, there is to be a naval blockade of Spain to prevent volunteers and arms reaching that country.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : National Mutual Buildings, 91
King William Street, Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Saywell Buildings, 115 Lambton
Quay, Wellington.
London: T. B. Browne, Ltd., 163 Queen Victoria
Street, London, E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
"VALIDATING."
Australian taxpayers who have fought any of the
seven Taxation Departments in the courts —a process
always costly and generally useless —are familiar with
what politicians and bureaucrats are pleased to call
“validating legislation.” The department is challenged
on some edict or ruling, and the High Court or the
Judicial Committee of the Privy Council decides that
it has exceeded its powers. Promptly there appears
in Parliament a bill “validating” the abuse condemned
by the Court, and the litigant is considered lucky if
it isn’t made retroactive.
The people are now invited to do some “validat-
ing” themselves and take the consequences.
Seven months ago the Judicial Committee of the
Privy Council decided that the Commonwealth laws
under which the marketing of dried fruits (and, in
effect, dairy produce) was “controlled” hadn’t a con-
stitutional leg to stand on, being contrary to the
section (92) which says, almost in the words in which
it was drafted by Henry Parkes nearly half a century
ago, that “Trade, commerce and intercourse among
the States... .shall be absolutely free.” The Com-
monwealth Parliament as now constituted would
“validate” these ruled-out enactments if it could.
Being under the lamentable necessity of consulting
the people, it requests them to do the job by casting
majorities in four States and in the Commonwealth
itself for the proposition that Section 92 shall not
apply to “laws made with respect to marketing.”
The politicians and bureaucrats concerned are
pleased to call this an “amendment.” Their “amend-
ment,” if carried, would admit of a general advance
of marketing boards across State boundaries —
Queensland alone has 17 —and of the spawning of
others in industries now without them.
In other words, the electors are asked to make a
complete surrender of power to politicians, who
may delegate it as they please or as they are moved
of overawed, in the one region in which law-abiding
people are still, in a measure, free from politicians
and bureaucrats, though this freedom has been
invaded and is constantly threatened. And what
is the object aimed at? Mr. McEwen, the C.P.
member for Echuca, who is expected at Canberra
to get the next vacant portfolio, is painfully frank.
Parliament is seeking to equip itself with power to
enable it to establish artificial price-levels for the pro-
tection of those engaged in primary producing industries.
Not all of “those engaged in primary producing
industries,” for the woolgrowers, whose wool, sheep-
skins, mutton and lamb are worth far more than the
produce of the rest of the “primary” industries put
together, beg to be excused. The woolgrowers would
be very sorry to have control thrust on them, and
they have never asked for the strangulation of inter-
state freetrade. Only dairy-produce and dried-fruits
people—and by no means all of them —are at present
demanding artificial price-levels, though other
interests will assuredly demand them if the dried-
fruits laws are “validated” and Section 92 virtually
disappears from the Constitution.
It is true that artificial price-levels have for years
been conceded to the sugar interest. But this conces-
sion was made for special reasons, the sugar interest
being engaged in an important experiment in tropical
settlement, and being regarded, as it were, as an out-
post of the nation. The same cannot truthfully be
said of the dried-fruits or dairying interest, but it is
claimed for both, as for the sugar interest, that they
have to send most of their produce abroad, and that
if they sell it there for less than a fair price they
are entitled to make up the difference by charging
so much more for what they sell in the Australian
market. “Producer” boards or committees appointed
by politicians are to be the judges of what is a fair
price, and are to be empowered to levy taxes on
Australian consumers.
This is alleged to be the exact equivalent of the
protection granted to manufacturers. It is, of course,
nothing of the kind. If tariff protection of manufac-
tures is abused, or the Government thinks it is, it can
be withdrawn at any time by a Cabinet Minister,
subject to Parliament’s approval. This was done in
the case of the duty on British cement, which now
comes in duty-free. But if Section 92 goes and the
price of a necessary commodity fixed by a marketing
board is excessive, the community will have no such
safeguard. Reduction of the price to a reasonable
level would mean dismissing the board and getting
another of the same mind as the Minister. And who
ever heard of a Government dismissing a board?
Dried fruits and dairy produce—indeed, all farm
and orchard produce—are fully protected in the Aus-
tralian market. Growers of raisins, currants, dried
apricots and the like have had Imperial preference for
many years (the first Baldwin Government, 1923-24,
fell in granting it), and the Commonwealth Year-
Book records that “free entry into the U.K. of butter,
cheese and other milk products of Australian origin”
was negotiated in 1932, corresponding foreign goods
being taxed. Distressed fruitgrowers and dairymen
have shared in the manifold concessions granted by
Commonwealth and State Governments to distressed
farmers, and are entitled to share in the £12,000,000
which the Commonwealth Government has under-
taken to raise for the payment of farmers’ debts. If
any hardship results. from the decision in the James
case —and, though howlers and squealers are loud in
the land, there has been none yet—a bounty will be
considered in the generous spirit of which growers
of wheat, apples, pears, prunes and oranges nave nad
abundant evidence.
What other section has been treated as liberally?
What more can be fairly asked of a community
which is paying elevenpence for a four-pound
loaf, sevenpence a quart for milk, ninepence a pint
for beer, twopence on a letter and twice the pre-war
price of tobacco, and which sees rents rising every-
where and reads that this or that company has put
up the charge for gas and hears the rumble of a
distant agitation designed to add halfpenny a pound
to the price of sugar, now fourpence? To ask it to
give up a charter of freedom in order that it may be
bled by groups in no way responsible to it and utterly
beyond its control —this is too much.
The Bulletin can see no argument against Com-
monwealth control of aviation, and on that issue it
will vote Yes. Because it believes in inter-State free-
trade and hates and fears the spreading cancer of
bureaucracy and utterly rejects the Lyons-Page-
Stevens notion that the cost of living is no concern
of Governments, on the marketing issue it will
vote No.
What About Australia?
The British proposal to spend up to £1,500,000,000
on armaments has been received with shocked protests
by socialists. From the rank and file of Labor a
modest cough of deprecation in accordance with
Labor tradition is all that need be expected.
The construction of a 35,000-ton battleship means
work for a couple of years for 2000 to 3000 men.
Five of these battleships or battlecruisers will
be on the stocks before next year, together with 14
cruisers, a couple of first-rank aeroplane-carriers and
some smaller craft. Apart from munitioning, the
naval programme over three years will send well
on towards 100,000 men and women to work in coal-
and iron-mines, metal works and shipyards. And
if most of the present ships in the capital-ship and
front-rank cruiser class are retained, remodelled and
rearmored, there will be additions to the naval person-
nel of over 20,000 and considerable further accretions
of employees in the victualling section of the navy.
In addition to all this, the army is to be fully
mechanised, which means huge orders for small-arms
and transport, provision of new-type factories, and
an impetus to the textile, chemical and build-
ing trades without precedent since Lloyd George
took charge of affairs during the war. There
will be a call for new merchantmen —sufficient
probably to restore Britain to its old place on
the seas—together with a stimulated trade in raw
materials from the Dominions. The development in
aircraft types has already been phenomenal, consider-
ing that Britain a .year or so ago lagged behind the
world.
British fighting machines already lead in speed
and range. Every aircraft factory is working over-
time on new designs. But without an effective com-
mercial air fleet the R.A.F. can be only half an arm.
This the authorities seem to recognise, as witness
their construction of new units of the big Canopus
Empire type, built for the Australian run, but suitable
for conversion into troop-carriers capable of flying
from England to the Mediterranean without inter-
mediate stop. The fleet of Canopus flying-boats could
put a battalion a day into Malta from England’s
south coast.
On top of all will be a widening demand for
oil fuels for the navy, for aeroplanes and for the new
mechanised army units: this in a world in which —
according to Sir John Cadman, of the Anglo-lranian
Co., in which the British Government holds a substan-
tial interest —there is only 20 years’ supply of oil in
sight on a scale of usage which did not contemplate
such programmes as the British.
The defence scheme is very evidently designed
not merely to defend Britain but to defend the British
Commonwealth. Evidence of this is to be found in
the development of the immense bases and aero-
dromes at Singapore and Trincomalee. To make
for the security of the whole British Commonwealth,
it will be necessary to send a large part of the new
forces and armaments to central points which can
guard India, Australia, Maoriland and Hong Kong.
In the building-up, if attempted in Britain, materials
will have to be carried from the Pacific. It seems
a logical part of the scheme to have the work aimed
at the defence of the Pacific done in the Pacific as
far as possible.
Australia has coal, iron, timber, raw chemicals,
skilled engineers and resourceful workmen. It has fine
neglected southern harbors which could be built into
great naval bases without much expenditure. On its
north coast there are many sallying points which would
safeguard lines of communication that could not
be attacked without warning.
If any substantial portion of the British pro-
gramme were transferred here, there would soon not
be many physically able unemployed men in Aus-
tralia, and there would be a demand for British
workmen on which a substantial immigration scheme
could be based. More especially if it were made
part of Australia s task to extract oil from coal and
produce a sufficiency of power alcohol—an ideal fuel
for fast aeroplanes ; it was used in the Schneider Cup
machines, and, judging by the equipment of some of
the new ’planes, is also in use in the R.A.F. More-
over, war industries have been mothers of peace
industries. The real development of the Nuffield
and other British motor factories began in war-time
and continued with mechanical knowledge and experi-
ence gained in war.
The question of cost enters into the matter. But
with the help of the Australian contribution, which
will have to be made anyhow if Australia is not to
continue, in the Prime Minister’s words, to have “no
defences at all,” this could be mitigated considerably.
To-day, if war broke out in the Pacific, British war-
ships would have to protect us. It would be an
expensive and difficult job, since not only capital ships
but capital aeroplane squadrons would have to use
Singapore as a base ; and Singapore is outside prac-
tical capital-ship range from Sydney and Melbourne.
A few British millions spent in Australia on top of
a reasonable Australian effort, a capital ship or two,
decent docking and repair machinery for them, a
small mechanised modern army of trained men,
half a dozen squadrons of troop-carriers, medium
bombers and fast fighters, and Australia would be
reasonably secure.
"We're in the Navy Now!"
When sensational journalism is stuck for a subject
it is very apt to discover that the R.A.N. would be
in a desperate condition but for the manly fortitude
of the matlows. The matlows, it seems, are oppressed
by tyrants, chiefly officers from the Royal Navy. They
suffer in proud silence, permitting themselves only an
occasional groan when struggling with their second
tot of rum ; but a Time May Come, for even free-
born Australians can be goaded beyond endurance.
While important naval and military manoeuvres
were in progress at Jervis Bay, this stale old dish was
served up with trimmings. It was boisterously wel-
comed by the Sydney flapper press, always hungry
for a stunt. The flapper press had had nothing in
that line since its leg was pulled by the inhabitants
of Moree, centre of a rich woolgrowing district, who
persuaded it that on a certain day the entire adult
population of Moree would declare its independence
of woollen clothing by appearing on the streets in
cotton shorts. When the hour struck the flapper press
had a battery of cameras ready to go into action, but
there wasn’t a pair of shorts to be seen.
The flapper press garnished the mouldy old
“R.A.N. sensation” in its own way. It published a
list of alleged grievances and insinuated that unless
they were promptly remedied —by the cashiering of
the Admiral or some such measure —there might be
a mutiny. Extracts from “a letter written by a rating”
were published. They conveyed the information that
the men were- “treated like a lot of kids”; told
precisely how they were to scrub the decks, and
“ ‘crimed’ for not wearing hats at the correct angle.”
Lord knows how long they will stick this treatment!
If there is no investigation very soon they will act
together.
Very likely Mr. Parkhill had to deal with bushels
of the same sort of complaints and threats when he was
secretary of the Liberal League and feeling ran high
in the ladies’ auxiliary. But Mr. Parkhill is in the
Navy now—that is to say, he is Minister of Defence
—and though the bluejacketed victims of British naval
martinets may not have votes that count their fathers
and mothers, wives, sisters, cousins and aunts have.
Besides, Mr. Parkhill finds the flapper press useful.
He always runs to it for protection when Granny
“Herald” scolds him, and he repays it with exclusive
information. In return the flapper press praises Mr.
Parkhill for the statesman he is not, and declares
that the American-type aeroplanes for the construc-
tion of which he has given a contract —this when his
Government is engaged in a trade war with the U.S.A.,
and when the U.S.A. Government is committed to
neutrality, even to an export embargo on weapons
and munitions, in all foreign wars —are the most won-
derful machines that man ever made. It has carried
flattery of Mr. Parkhill to the point of publishing
a photograph taken at such an angle that Mr. Park-
hill, a very small man, looks as big as C.M.F. soldiers
alongside him, six-footers off to the Coronation.
Mr. Parkhill was on the side of Authority when
the “disclosures” were made. But presently he was
heard to mumble something about “a special inquiry :
and growing bolder, or brassier, he mentioned with
pride that he had overruled the Naval Board with
regard to its marching and sailing arrangements for
the bluejackets of the Coronation contingent.
The Naval Board proposed that these men should
sail on a date different from that of the remainder, and
that in parades and reviews in England they should
march with detachments of the British Navy. Both
requests were refused by Mr. Parkhill.
“I was informed,” said Mr. Parkhill, “that the
Melbourne men should not march in the Melbourne
parade, and I gave instructions that they should.”
The Minister said that the Naval Board’s original
refusal would be investigated.
If the men of the R.A.N. are really discontented
they don’t look it. The Bulletin has frequent oppor-
tunities of observing them at first hand, and it says
deliberately that it has never seen a healthier and
happier-looking collection of young Australian man-
hood. It is difficult in these days to escape stunting
newspapers and vote-catching politicians, but the
R.A.N. should be spared their pestilent attentions.
On its record since 1911 the R.A.N. is quite
capable of remedying internal grievances without
recourse to vote-catchers or stunters. Capable also Or
dealing with Communists who sneak their printed offal
into the men’s quarters, and with crazy loons who cut
electric wires and drop breech-blocks overboard —it
they were not crazy loons they would deserve to be
dropped overboard themselves.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Canberra Does It Again.
If the name isn’t Lang, it’s a grand thing to be a
State Labor Premier when a “Tory” Government
like the Lyons-Page-Gullett combination is in office
at Canberra. Whatever you may be after at a par-
ticular time a loan, a grant, another sugar agree-
ment or renewal of the Federal-aid-roads arrangement
—you are sure to get it.
In these matters Canberra always takes the easy
way to avoid the unaccustomed exercise of thinking,
and the easy way consists in being prodigal with the
people’s money. At the same time Canberra scatters
its gifts so clumsily that no gratitude is felt by the
large bodies of electors to whom they are passed on,
and by its propensity for indulging in unspeakable
follies like the trade war with Japan it never fails
to furnish material for effective denunciation.
Largely because of these Canberra idiosyncrasies,
Labor Premier Forgan Smith won again in Queensland
and Labor Premier Collier (since succeeded by Mr.
Willcock) in Westralia. It was Labor Premier Ogilvie’s
turn last week.
In interest and sinking-fund payments on State
debts, special grants (£600,000 this year), Federal-aid-
road money, reduction-of-deficit allowances and
bounties (wheat, apple, fertiliser and the like) Tas-
mania has been getting from Canberra nearly £5 per
head per annum. To the intense gratification of the
civil service, the Ogilvie Government used part of
this easy money for wiping out all departmental (also
Parliamentary) pay-cuts ; and, Canberra improvising
a farm-relief scheme, to be charged up to posterity,
many Tasmanian farmers were put in the way of
becoming debt-free. Details were left to the Ogilvie
Government, and the credit was claimed for it; and
the Government skilfully exploited the dissatisfaction
of fruitgrowers with a bad export season, and of
graziers with the trade-war policy.
While Labor, was preparing its election pro-
gramme, Canberra came to light with its crowning
folly, the marketing referendum. This sorely embar-
rassed its friends and enabled the Ogilvies to point
out effectively that inter-State freetrade, a vital neces-
sity to Tasmania, was in peril.
In the result there was a landslide. Three years
ago Mr. A. G. Ogilvie was a Premier without a party
majority, dependent on the vote of a Douglas Credit
clergyman, who has been defeated. He will now have
a party majority of six to eight.
Labor carried all five six-member electorates,
including the Prime Minister’s own Wilmot. But for
proportional voting the Opposition would be reduced to
a remnant. And, by virtue of an Act passed last year,
the Government will remain in office another five
years. Five years! And there is no State Govern-
ment, nor any State Parliament, that deserves even
a twelvemonth’s tenure.
The Common Touch.
Australian miners are as good in an emergency as
they are in a fight. Wonthaggi (Vic.) coalies were
waving hands like mallee roots and using tongues
with a tang at a stop-work meeting when the news
was brought to them that 13 overseers had been
trapped by an underground explosion. Differences
were forgotten, and the men rushed for the pithead
to volunteer assistance.
The general manager was in the first descending
cage. He and another manager and the men of the
rescue squad challenged Death and defied Nature in
their efforts to save the lives of their mates, and,
when that was no longer possible, to extricate their
bodies for Christian burial.
In the common desire to save courage took no
count of irritations made petty by disaster. This is
a human enough characteristic, but one of whose
existence the people and their leaders—political, com-
mercial and otherwise—grow gradually unaware until
it again cracks society’s veneer and helps them through
their next parcel of common trouble. Wars tap this
human well in the most destructive and useless way.
Floods, fires, earthquakes, wrecks, aeroplane crashes
inspire the same active sympathy that is part of a
heritage dating perhaps from the gregarious days of
the cave-dwellers.
Sorrowing Wonthaggi is only Australia’s latest
example. The affairs of the R.A.A.F. pilots recently
missing in Tasmania and near Bacchus Marsh, and of
the skiers on Victoria’s Bogongs, brought out the same
instincts in other Australians. Maorilanders exhibited
them when Mt. Egmont claimed another victim a few
days ago. At Napier in the 1931 earthquake that
killed more than 200 people and destroyed thousands
of homes, refugees, in their first queer, stunned
silences, sought sanity and strength from each other,
and found them.
Australia could do with more of Wonthaggi’s
common touch—without having to suffer Wonthaggi’s
sadness.
Bill for Mr. Gullett.
How Mr. Gullett’s adventure with Japan reacted on
Australia is shown by the trade figures for six months
to December 31. For that period in 1935 Japan sold
us silk and cotton and artificial-silk piece goods to
the amount of £1,499,600 sterling. As a result of
the Gullett tariff, the amount fell during the corre-
sponding period of 1936 to £1,258,200 sterling.
All imports from Japan in the last six months
of 1935 were worth £2,679,000 sterling; in the last
six months of 1936, £2,504,600 sterling.
Australia’s exports to Japan in the second half
of 1935 were worth £6,434,100 sterling ; same period
last year, £430,500 sterling. Loss in trade to Australia,
£6,003,600 sterling.
On top of that must be reckoned the wool which
Japan will not buy next season under its new trade
agreement with us —about 300,000 bales.
The woolgrowers would not suffer if there were
still another loss chalked up —Mr. Gullett.
Amazons.
“Headhunter”: The Australian head of Associated
Press having declared, with a touch of asperity, that
its news service is “of unquestioned veracity,” an
extract from Waugh in Abyssinia will interest those
who followed Associated Press accounts of Abys-
sinian events:
Two hundred or more of the Addis Ababa prosti-
tutes appeared one day dressed in high-heeled sandals
and ultramarine male uniforms. This was a golden
opportunity for the photographers, who got them to
pose with rifles and swords and sent back the results
entitled “Abyssinian Amazons: Famous Legion of
Fighting Women Leave for the Front.”
Associated Press has since dug up “battalions”
of Spanish “Amazons.” These ladies are doubtless
of unblemished respectability, but their martial per-
formances seem to have been disappointing; anyway,
“General Miaja, the Supreme Commander in Madrid,
while complimenting the loyalist women warriors on
iheir courage, has ordered their retirement from the
Madrid front lines.” However, at the back of the
Iront the legs of the young and pretty ones will still
be available for photographic purposes, the female
leg having become the basis of Glorious Press illus-
trations.
Wanted a Dictionary.
Readers of the pamphlet embodying the Lyons
Government’s case for the emasculation of Section 92
must long for a list of definitions from “Webster’s”
or some other good dictionary.
Section 92 reads:
On the imposition of uniform duties of customs
rwhich were long ago imposed], trade, commerce and
intercourse among the States, whether by means of
internal carriage or ocean navigation, shall be absolutely
tree.
The Lyons Government now wishes to add an
“amendment”: —•
J he provisions of the last preceding section shall not
apply to laws with respect to marketing made by,
or under the authority of, the Parliament in the exercise
of any powers vested in the Parliament by this Consti-
tution.
Webster says that “marketing” is “an act of selling
or purchasing, as in a market; also, a bringing or
sending to a market.” “Commerce” it defines as
“business intercourse, especially the buying and sell-
ing of commodities, and particularly the exchange
of merchandise on a large scale between different
places and communities; extended trade or traffic.”
“Trade” is “bartering, buying or selling or engaging
in the exchange, purchase or sale of goods, wares,
merchandise or anything else.”
On the whole, marketing seems to have as wide
a meaning in business as trade and a wider meaning
than commerce. You can market intangible things
such as rights and options. The Government’s mean-
ing would be more clearly expressed if, instead of
proposing a new section, it asked the people to add
to the last word of Section 92 the words “to nobody.”
Tragedies of Loan - Settlement.
Wesiralia is witnessing a rush from the land. In
the last few months there has been a persistent exodus
of ruined farmers from the south-west group settle-
ments and the wheat belt. Now the dispirited remnant
—about one-third—of 223 settlers who 10 years ago
were invited to grow wheat round Bullfinch, which is
10-inch auriferous country, is to be transferred to
“more favorable districts,” Bullfinch being now
pronounced “unsuitable for wheatgrowing.”
The State Agricultural Bank has sunk £320,000
in this “unsuitable” locality. It will be a total loss.
But the unfortunate settlers have lost all they
had and eight to ten years of their lives; and
perhaps in the process of developing these great
natural resources some poor devils have gone off their
heads. Such was the fate of a soldier-settler who,
crazed by his misfortunes, set fire to a shack on which
the Agricultural Bank had a mortgage, was criminally
prosecuted, found not guilty on the ground of in-
sanity, committed to the Government lunatic asylum,
and thence transferred to Fremantle Gaol. While the
Government was arranging to release him in the
way that Governments have he starved himself to
death.
It is no kindness to any man to put him on arid
land to grow wheat or some other vegetable with
which the world is well supplied. It is hard on the
man and harder still on his wife and children, if he
has any. Yet it has been done in many thousands
of cases, with the result that many good people have
suffered cruel hardships; and, in some instances, there
have been harrowing personal tragedies.
The financial consequences are scarcely calculable,
but a royal commission, reporting in 1935, found
that wheatgrowers alone owed £151,000,000, largely
to Governments or Government institutions. And
“developmental” Government railways, largely con-
structed to serve wheatgrowers, have made huge con-
tributions to the admitted, though (as Auditors-
General annually point out) understated, losses on
Government railways which for the 11 years to June,
1935, approached £60,000,000. And among the poli-
tical fruits are demands for a home-consumption price,
sufficient for a heavily-mortgaged farmer cultivating
arid land for a 10- to 12-bushel average, even if the
Commonwealth Constitution is mangled in the
process.
There should be no more Government loan-settle-
ment. This sorry chapter in our political history
should be closed as far as huge unpaid debts permit
it to be closed, with as much mercy to the victims
as can be shown. Any silly politician who advocates
a repetition of experiments like Bullfinch, the group
settlements and Victoria’s Northern Mallee should
be deemed thereby to be of unsound mind, and the
onus of proof that he is not should rest on him when
the asylum doctor is called in to examine the case.
Fisheries and Flapdoodle.
Mr. Jos. Francis. M.H.R., has recently told the
Australian Fishermen’s League—it represents 10,000
workers in what should be on; of Australia’s major
industries—that its policy is not in the best interests
of fishermen. Its policy is to obtain Federal assist'
ance towards providing refuge-havens for fishing
craft, to secure remission of Federal tax on petrol
used by professional fishing craft, to induce the Com-
monwealth Government to buy Australian canned
fish for its army and navy, instead of the imported
kinds, and to protect the fishing industry against the
present huge imports of canned and preserved fish
from overseas.
Mr. Francis takes the view that fishing havens
are State matters entirely, as the Constitution limits
Federal fishery powers to extra-territorial waters. He
ignores the matters of petrol tax, canned fish and the
rest. It does not apparently occur to Mr. Francis —
if, indeed, Canberra generally is aware of it —that
most of Australia’s professional fishing is already
done in extra-territorial waters: that is, beyond the
three-mile limit. If Australian fishermen are ever
allowed to develop drift-netting, purse-seining, or
substantial extension of trawling, practically all of
it will be done in extra-territorial waters.
Britain, Canada, France, Germany,. America.
Holland, Italy, Norway, Sweden, South Africa and
Japan all subsidise and assist their fishing industries
in a variety of ways, mainly in the very ways which
Mr. Francis says are the wrong policy for Australia.
According to him, research is all that is needed at
present. The league admits that research is an excel-
lent thing, but points out that Australia already has
over 240,000 squares miles of known first-rate fish-
ing waters, enough to extend the fishing industry
twentyfold if Australia were to give to her fisher-
men the same help which Canada affords to
gatherers of the sea-harvest. It says, too, that re-
search will be of little value unless the industry is
helped to survive until the results of research are
available, and then helped to take advantage of them.
Instead, Canberra is using the admission of
Canadian canned fish as a bargaining instrument with
a Canadian delegation, in order to assist the overseas
sale of other Australian products. This, too, despite
the recent discovery of the yellow-finned tuna, one
of the best of all canning fishes, in immense quan-
tities over thousands of square sea-miles, within easy
access from our coasts. Extra-territorial waters are
open to anyone, and before Mr. Francis’s panacea of
research is applied our starved fishing industry will
have the pleasure of sighting the smoke of big sea-
going factory ships, busily engaged in filling up
thousands of tons of hold space with chilled and
processed fish for Asiatic and American markets.
The Electrification Business.
“A.M.C.”: If the loan money lasts, the N.S.W.
Government proposes to electrify several of the main
lines of its insolvent railways. The proposal embraces
the erection of hydro-electric generating stations at
various country points and the electrification of the
northern line from Hornsby to Newcastle, the southern
line from Liverpool to Goulburn, the western line from
Parramatta to Lithgow, and the Illawarra line from
Sutherland to Nowra.
The present suburban system (to Central only,
and quite exclusive of the City railway) cost over
£16,000,000. Approximately £7,000,000 was spent on
rolling-stock, the balance of £9,000,000 being the cost
of conversion of the existing roads and laying of new
track at about £45,000 per track-mile.
The proposed scheme embraces about 680 track
miles, and would cost something like £50,000,000 in
its entirety.
During the past 32 years the London, Midland
and Scottish has electrified 282 track miles, equalling
117 miles of road, at a cost of £39,000 per track-mile.
Sir Josiah Stamp, chairman of the co., made the
following statement at its annual general meeting:
Close consideration has recently been given to
further suburban electrification. There does not appear to
be any likelihood of any further large-scale outlay in the
immediate future.
An extract from Whitelaw’s review—
Various schemes for electrification have been put
forward to the old Great Eastern Railway. Total
expenditure involved would amount to £7,000,000, and no
adequate return could be expected on the outlay
The board came to the conclusion that electrification
of the Great Eastern suburban lines could not be other
than a losing proposition.
Latest operating results from England:
Average cost of working steam trains, .043 d. per
train-ton-mile.
Average cost of working electric trains, .075 d. per
train-ton-mile.
These figures are an average of L.M.S., L.N.E.R.,
G.W.R. and S.R. costs, taken over three years—l 933,
1934 and 1935.
Since 1925 capital outlay on the N.S.W. Govern-
ment railways has increased from £80,000,000 to
£130,000,000. A profit was claimed in 1935. Since then,
with an annual £BOO,OOO of tax-money reckoned as
receipts, annual losses have varied between £500,000
and £4,000,000. We must allocate the major portion
of the capital increase to electrification. How, then,
can we expect anything but further losses should the
craze for electrification be satisfied?


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED with WIMBLES INKS"
“Morita”: The Digger is still casual.
I bumped him a few weeks back, squat-
ting on the steps of the local post office
waiting for a night trunk-line call.
‘ Hanged if I’d wait,” he. commented,
“only a bloke told me to-day he thought
my name was in the paper to go to the
Coronation.” In grimy fishing rig, bat-
tered pandan hat and bare legs, he
looked anything but one of Australia’s
choice. Knowing that the ex-A.I.Fs. had
paraded at the. barracks for selection and
been practically picked there and then,
I doubted him, and told him so. “I’m
not that mob,” he came back; “I’m a
Digger in the Air Force. We paraded
a month back and they told us we’d be
advised if we clicked, but there’s no one
at home to get a letter—we’re all down
here, and the paper the bloke saw was
days old, so I’m ringing up a cobber to
find what’s doing. If they don’t blasted
well hurry,” he added, “I’ve, done in all
my bait for to-morrow.” A few days
ago the “S. M. Herald” had a photo, of
the N.S.W. quota of the Air Force
trippers. He was there ; no longer dis-
hevelled, but as spruce as any of them,
wearing three bars.
*
“H.A.L.”: The real fate, of the letter
which is supposed to have “Gone astray
in the post” has often puzzled me, but
I’ve just had proof of how it sometimes
happens. Yesterday I received a big
envelope containing a rejected manu-
script and photographs ; it had been sent,
as is so often the case with this class of
mail matter, with the flap unclosed.
When I opened it I found inside two
ordinary letters not intended for me,
which had evidently slipped into mine in
the mailbag. My mail only arrives once
per week, so now Miss G.E.C., of Bal-
wyn, will know why the letter from Syd-
ney was so long in reaching her, and
Messrs. Harris, Scarfe and Sandovers, of
Perth (W.A.), will understand why the
letter from H.S.G.W., George-street,
Sydney, was delayed for about 10 days.
* sfc sH #
“C. Mac”: The cablecrammers of Our
Glorious Press are still at it—if anything,
they’re improving with practice. The
following, printed last week in mere
double-column black headline type, de-
served the whole paper to itself:
Senor Olivar, Spanish Minister of Justice,
declared that many fugitives, unable to
struggle further, strangled their children to
keep them from falling into Fascist hands,
and dashed their own heads against stones
or threw themselves under lorries.
Apart from a few newspapermen, I’ve
not yet met anybody who laughs at that
palpable rubbish. Is it possible that
Suburbia swallows it? Or do people just
note it and somewhere down in the sub-
conscious debit it against general con-
fidence in a press that has made sensa-
tionalism, however absurd, its single
creed?
“W.P.T.”: The guinea paid for a
baby’s caul (B. 10/2/’37) was certainly
far below the old market price. My
mother told me that my caul was sold
to a sea captain for £10, and had it
not had a slight crack in it it would have
been worth three times that amount.
“False alarm, gentlemen. It isn't treasure it's only four dozen bottles of beer.”
Old seafaring men reckoned that no
ship would sink while one of these cauls
was on board. It would be interesting
to have the origin of this ancient super-
stition.
=:-• * * *
“Uncle Toby”: I have always re-
garded the word “Sorry” as a slipshod
way of saying “I beg pardon,” but I
came across it in an entirely new set-
ting the other night. It was in Collins-
street, Melbourne, where the “House
Full” shingle was displayed outside a
talkie emporium, with the added word
“Sorry!” The thought of any showman
being sorry he had a capacity house con-
jured up visions of, say, Messrs. J. and
N. Tait weeping on each other’s necks
because well, perhaps because they
couldn’t squeeze in an extra two bob
(plus tax).
* * * *
“Spare Corp”: The war was relieved
now and again by the exchange of airy
persiflage—airy in a double sense. News
had come through of a strike in Aus-
trian munitions factories, followed a
couple of weeks later by the destruction
by bombing of German war-chemical
factories. While we strafed the Fritz
positions a message was dropped over
his lines from a ’plane. “Hear you are
short of shells; are sending you some
over.” Jerry took a similar means to
reply with “Thanks; but we prefer our
own.” Promptly the improvised air mail
carried over another message: “Glad
we can oblige you”—as nasty as it could
be, as it recalled the capture of a Ger-
man ammunition dump. Still, we didn’t
have it all our own way. For a time
the enemy gave us a hot time with
British shells fired from British guns
which had been captured from the Rus-
sians, to whom they had been supplied,
And Fritz did not fail to send us jocose
messages about them.
* * , * *
“Kriz”: A flying journalist, writing of
Broome (W.A.), mentions that the glory
has departed from the famous pearling
port, and that one of the few remaining
old-timers told him mournfully of the
days when Broome had a fleet of 300
boats, champagne flowed like water and
pearlers wore sovereigns as buttons. Few
of the pearlers in my time wore coats,
and I don’t ever remember seeing any
sovereigns pressed into tailoring service ;
but the real glory of the old days has
gone—the days when pearlshell was
fetching £3OO a ton. When Admiral
Bedford was Governor of Westralia he
paid the then flourishing port a visit, and
the residents staged a big shivoo for him
in the Mechanics’ Institute. The chair-
man of the Broome Roads Board was
a hilarious Irishman, and all eyes
turned on the doorway when that worthy
escorted in the distinguished guest. Both
were in evening dress, though Broome s
first citizen scorned a collar and tie—
but a £5OO diamond sparkled m his
snowy shirttront.
* * * *
“Captain Pintle”: Sight of Formosa’s
mountainous outline as I was returning
home a few weeks ago recalled a yarn
my Uncle Bill used to tell concerning
his days as mate in a smart British tea-
clipper. Bowling through the strait
under all kites they sighted a big Yankee
skysai 1-yarder in evident difficulty and
signalling them to close. “Say, Cap.,”
bawled the Yankee skipper as they got
within hail, “I’ll swap you two climber-
sailors for one splicer!” “What’s
wrong?” roared the Old Man. “Carried
away my main-brace. It’s one of those
durned four-stranded left-handed (blank-
ards) with a little son of a (lady-dog)
in the middle, and I haven’t a (brilliantly-
tinted and eternally-condemned) guy
aboard can splice it!”.
* * * *
“Khayyam”: “Archer’s” statement
(B. 6/I/’37) that the reason for Fair-
bridge (W.A.) children having good teeth
is the absence of iron water pipes strike
me as rather ridiculous, seeing that there
are at least three miles of iron pipes
laid down in the settlement. A
dentist who attends the kids gave me a
much better reason, viz., regular atten-
tion, simple food and an almost complete
absence of sweets and lollies.
* * * *
“S. and S.”: There is nothing new
under the sun. A recent paragraph told
how a Warrnambool (Vic.) citizen drew
up for himself a will which, although
duly signed and witnessed, ended in mid-
air, so to speak, with “I hereby appoint
Ormond Andrews my executor and I
give, devise and bequeath all my real
and personal estate” A self-made
will left by a Perth man, one George
Nelson, was vitiated by precisely the
same vagueness. The final paragraph
ran: “I give unto”—here a sister’s name
and address were specified, but' what the
testator gave he omitted to state. The
Court, as in the Vic. case, held that this
was an intestacy. This would have
meant the division of the estate, a matter
of a few hundred pounds, among all the
next-of-kin, but the other near relatives,
recognising the testator’s intention,
waived all their claims in favor of the
slster mentioned,
* * * *
“Tile”: Passing through Colombo,
homeward bound, a few years ago, my
two lads insisted on topis (B. 17/2/’37),
presumably to show their mates in Aus-
tralia that they’d “been places.” The
day came for them to join Brisbane
Grammar as new boys, and they started
off decked out like a couple of explorers
about to plunge into the jungle. What
happened I have never heard from that
day to this ; I only know that next time
I saw those topis they had been painted
green by an economical missus, and were
being used for hanging-ferns. 1 wouldn’t
like to finance a shipment of topis—not
boys’ sizes, anyway,
* * * *
“Visitor”: Adelaide continues to ex-
pand upwards. The first new thing to
ca t cb the eye is a lofty A.M.P. building
on the o j d s j te on King William-street;
hard b y, the C.M.L., having acquired
more land, has doubled in bulk its recent
castellated structure, which was too
narrow for real effect. The enormously
expensive and doubtfully necessary ex-
tension of Parliament House is getting
well under way. Along North-terrace,
a solid block of Shell Co., Goldsbrough
Mort, and Liberal Club looks down and
across to Government House. Further
along comes the new Melrose gallery,
which doubles the size, of the old Art
Gallery. The Bonython Hall of the Uni-
versity is complete, and the same lavish
benefactor, besides his £lOO,OOO towards
Parliament House cost, has put down
£16,000 for a new home for the School
of Mines, of which he has been president
for longer than most people can re-
member.
* * * *
“Wesn”: Faulty deciphering ol nand-
writing sometimes occurs in Government
departments (B. 27/1 /’37). I have in
mind an elderly telegraph operator who
had been barred from the handling of
press traffic because he transmitted in
a Parliamentary report “The Chinaman
took the chain” instead of “The Chair-
man took the chair.” Later on a new
boss, ignorant of his record, gave him a
turn at racecourse-operating duty. The
first winner, Pure Grit, was promptly and
confidently transmitted as Pine Grab.
This was easily adjusted by the receiving
operator, who knew his onions, but
when the sender went on to describe a
“six-furlong sprint for colts and fillies
as a “six farthing spring for bolts and
fitters” he was summarily withdrawn
from the key-punching. Carpeted and
reprimanded, he so far forgot his Metno-
dist upbringing as to exclaim, pointing
to the press flimsies, “There might be
two opinions about my telegraphy, but
there can be only one about that s
writing!”
NUFFIELD.
Treasure on earth is his —and a sounder
treasure,
I’ll say, for one who holds it to help and heal,
A worthier wealth, with nothing on earth to
end it,
Where never the rust may rot or the moth may
rend it,
Or thieves break through and steal.
Ever they come and go, the makers of millions.
But strange how few a passing thought have
lent
To the darkened lives around them, the lots so
dreary.
The plight of the sick and suffering and weary,
The maimed, the halt and the spent.
But he—his heart goes out to the crippled
children
Whose pathway, from the cradle to the grave,
Might well be a pilgrimage beyond enduring
If the white-walled wards were never there for
the curing
Or the white-sleeved arms to save.
His name may never go ringing adown the ages
For the wealth he won or the title gained
thereat.
But he’s fairly topped the score for generous
giving,
And be sure for many a year he’ll still be
living
In many a heart for that.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.
“Hamer”: Australian writers and
artists are starting another campaign
against the flood of syndicated matter
which pours in from abroad to their
detriment. Strangely enough, the syndi-
cation idea had its origin in Australia,
the literary supplement issued in Mel-
bourne by Cameron, Laing and Co. in the
early ’sixties and distributed among sub-
scribing country papers being the first
venture of the sort in the world. America
copied it about 10 years later, and from
that developed the now all-pervading
syndicating. When the game was in its
infancy the newly-established “Strand
Magazine” had on offer the Australian
rights of republication of three detec-
tive stories (with all the magazine illus
trations) by a then little-known writer
named Conan Doyle. The price was £5
for the three. But before the next offer
came along the Sherlock Holmes yarns
had made such a hit that the charge
demanded for the following three was
a hundred guineas! The first three, were
published in one of the country supple-
ments ; the later price was much too
big a hurdle.


“Sixenate”: A cannon ball from a
gun that had not been fired since the
Crimean War hit a Sydney woman a few
weeks ago, and thereby became the basis
of a claim for damages. The victim was
a picnicker in Ashton Park, Bradley’s
Head, where is preserved a specimen of
the old type of ordnance along with a
pile of the solid old 681 b. shot. Children
playing about the gun loosened one of
the round balls, starting it on a roll
down the hill, where it caught the pic-
nicking lady in the back and landed her
in hospital. The Court will be asked to
decide whether the trustees of the park,
having in effect invited the lady to picnic
there, were responsible for the damage
in having failed to properly anchor the
antiquated missile.
sfe 9
“Shanghai”: Recent disasters in which
the steamers Kakariki and Bellubra
figured point the necessity for portholes
to be large enough to enable a man to
crawl through. In the Kakariki men
were imprisoned in the fo’c’sle, and in
a published photo, of the Bellubra a
man was calling for help from a port-
hole too small to provide a means of
exit. Certainly most modern vessels have
large ports, but the two in my cabin are
only lOin. in diameter and I am rapidly
Now, young man, don't make me VERY beautiful. Just beautiful
Will do."
acquiring the middle-aged spread. Also
there are some vessels which keep all
the lifebelts in a box on the lower bridge
—complying with the regulations, but
not much good if a man has to dive
over for’ard in a hurry.
“Tittlebat”: Lawyers stand to get
their whack out of the estate of Martin
Burke, who died a few years ago in a
Sydney hospital with 11s. 9d. in the
pockets of his shabby clothes. The
ancient —a retired postal official —might
have been buried as a pauper had not
someone gone rooting around the dingy
room he occupied in Darlinghurst and
discovered that Martin owned property
to the value of £40,000. Then began the
hunt for the right-
ful heir, which is
still in full cry. The.
deceased left no
will; he had no
relatives in Australia
and apparently no
inti mates. Almost
the only definite
thing known about
him was that he
originally came from
Ireland, and a com-
mission was issued
for the taking there
of such evidence as
might have any
bearing on the iden-
tity of his near rela-
t i v e s. Naturally
there is no lack of
claimants; at the
Master - in - Equity’s
Court last week it
was mentioned by
the Public Trustee
that 550 were al-
ready in the field,
and that applications
were still pouring
in. The wonder is
that, the number
hasn’t already run
into four figures;
there must be thou-
sands of Martin Burkes in Ireland
and elsewhere for whom the publicity
given to the name would have an in-
stant attraction.
* * :J: *
“Y.”: “Samivel’s” remarks on the
varying pronunciation of the letter “g”
(B. 10/2/’37) reminds me that the names
of two of the best-known streets around
Melbourne are almost invariably mis-
pronounced. These are Elgin-street,
Carlton (wrongly called Eljin), and the
intersecting Lygon-street /spoken with
the long “i” sound, instead of the short
“i” of the correct Liggon).
* :Jt * -'t=
“WJ.W.”: The occurrence of the same
place-name in different States must give
postal officials a whole lot of trouble.
1 enclosed envelope for return posting of
an article I sent to The Bulletin, but
omitted to include the State in my
address. Consequently, after my effort
had been turned down the MS. left the
office addressed to Guildford-road, Bel-
mont. N.S.W. rejected it after trying
Belmont and Belmore. Belmont (Vic.)
shied at it, and it drew a blank at Bel-
mont (Q.). Finally, after its excursion
about the continent, it was delivered at
Belmont (W.A.) six weeks from when it
was posted in Sydney.
“Oxmead”: I share “Y.’s” objections
to repetition of names among hereditary
monarchs (B. 17/2/’37). With Popes
the confusion is even worse ; there have
been 13 Leos, 15 Benedicts, 16 Gregorys
and so on, so that only a man with the
memory of a Macaulay could assign his
approximately proper period to each,
Their Holinesses, of course, are re-
named when they “arrive, ’ and it would
seem that a somewhat similar process
“I heard a whisper that Lord Nuffield may be present."
has been adopted with recent British
sovereigns, the only difference, being that
in their case the favored name may be
picked without going outside the bap-
tismal stock. Edward Vll.’s front name
was Albert, like his father’s —he invari-
ably appears as Bertie in his mother’s
journals—but even 30 years ago it appar-
ently didn’t sound English enough for
critical tastes. Edward VIII. was David
to his relatives, but that excellent name
was scrapped when he came tio the
throne. The present King is yet another
Albert, but his front name was aban-
doned for his last one when his reign
began. Not a moment before ; he signed
himself Albert as a witness to his
brother’s abdication document. The.
George on that historical piece of paper
is the youngest of the family, the Duke
of Kent.
* :[: *
“C. G. Salis”: “We were periodically
inspected at Ras El Tin hospital by ‘per-
sonages,’ one of whom was General ‘Bull’
Allenby, who roared at us so that some
of us shivered and shook for days after-
ward.” Thus Negley Farson in his auto-
biography The Way of a Transgressor.
I had always imagined Allenby as a quiet,
reserved type, the direct antithesis of
Farson’s visitor. Can it be that the
author has confused Allenby with Aus-
tralia’s own “Bull” Ryrie, or have I been
mistaken all these years?
* * *
“Shep”: “Fisher’s Ghost” (B. 17/2/’37)
suggests that future front-line troops will
wear some sort of all-enveloping cloak as
gas protection. I’m sorry for them if
they have to. All army branches are now
practising their jobs in gasbags. These,
are bad enough, but the arms are free
to load artillery, carry rifles or ammuni-
tion, or throw bombs. Even with slits
for armholes, cloaks would be a curse.
Stretcher-bearing in the bogged Somme,
we found greatcoats useless, because of
the weight of mud they collected ; there
was as much load in a mud-plastered coat
as in a man’s share of the stretcher's
weight. On someone’s brainwave we were
then issued with proper waterproof capes
with armhole slits. A few days later,
these were strewn around our posts and
we were back to the ordinary issue
groundsheet that buttoned around the
neck, but could be thrown back behind
the. shoulders if it got in the way. Sodden
clothes weren’t comfortable, but they let
us do our job.
“White Rose”: The recent demonstra-
tion by a mob of featherbrained Oxford
undergrads, favoring Prince Rupprecht
of Bavaria as Britain’s rightful King re-
minds me that, when Edward VII. died,
adherents to the cause of Charles the
Martyr hung a placard on the gates of
Buckingham Palace, proclaiming Maria
Theresa of Bavaria (Prince Rupprecht's
mother) to be Queen of England. A
relative of my own was one of the large
crowd which saw the guard turn out and
tear down the offending proclamation,
* * * *
“Combien”: The query (B. 3/2/’3-7)
as to what became of A.I.F. band instru-
ments must have amused many Digger
readers. To the enterprising spirits who
“flogged” articles ranging from issue
boots to G.S. wagons, disposal of even
a double B b bass or the regimental drum
would have presented little difficulty in
the free-and-easy days round about the
Armistice. There comes to memory a
tale of a Y-Emma man who, commis-
sioned to buy instruments for use on a
homing transport, was astounded to be
offered by a dealer a nearly-complete set,
all inscribed “Presented to the Ump-
teenth Battalion by the Citizens of
Blankville.”
* * * *
“Macann”: That part of Sydney
where the Stadium stands is called on
maps I’ve consulted Rushcutter Bay.
Even at Granny “Herald,” in whose type
that spelling is a strict house rule, the
place was spoken of as Rushcutters
Bay, and I’ve never heard anybody call
it otherwise. The local council, on its
park notices, calls it Rushcutters Bay,
without the apostrophe. Having just
moved camp to be fair on the Bay I’m
told by the Post Office that my address
is Edgecliff. The delivering trades-
people call it Darling Point. What is
the nigger in this woodheap? Surely
these days the Stadium is respectable
enough!
* * * *
“Pitt Row”: “J.H.M.A.’s” protest
against the demolition of the old Con-
vict Barracks in Sydney recalls Francis
Howard Greenway, the first man who
did anything for building in Australia. A
British architect who was made bank-
rupt and concealed some of his effects
under examination, he was sent to these
parts in 1813 under a sentence of 14
years. He brought a letter of introduc-
tion from Admiral Phillip to Governor
Macquarie, who granted him a ticket-
of-leave and appointed him Government
Architect at 3s. per diem, which, five or
six years later, Mr. Commissioner Bigge
condemned as gross extravagance. The
work Greenway left behind suggests
that he fully earned his guinea a week.
Some of the best of it is in the old
barracks, St. James’s Church in Sydney,
St. Matthew’s at Windsor (N.S.W.), Syd-
ney Government House, the building
now in use as the Conservatorium —origi-
nally the Governor’s stables —and the
Macquarie lighthouse at South Head,
superseded in 1880 by the present struc-
ture. In 1818 he propounded to Mac-
quarie a plan for a new church, to stand
on the site now occupied by Sydney’s
Town Hall in the middle of a “four-way
circus,” with roads to Parramatta, Dawes
Point, Darling Harbor and Hyde Park.
'Digging for the foundations of the
church was commenced in 1819, but
Commissioner Bigge arrived and killed
the plan. Greenway died just on a hun-
dred years ago, and was buried at Mait-
land.
NOT HAVING ANY.
“Since Mr. Cartland, a bachelor M.P., moved a
motion in the House of Commons deploring the
falling birthrate, he has been inundated with letters
from single women proposing marriage. All such
offers he ‘declines with thanks.’ ”
This world of ours is fairly humming, brothers,
With moral mentors, inconsistent elves,
Who never tire of urging upon others
Tasks that they rigidly eschew themselves.
Precept is good, but better far example;
An ounce of action’s worth a pound of
speech.
Upon their own professions how they trample,
The blokes who will not practise what they
preach!
His voice rose loud and cogent to importune
All patriotic souls their weight to pull
In giving lots of hostages to Fortune
And keeping Britain’s ill-stocked cradles full,
let now, when deluged with spontaneous offers
To help him do whatever’s in his reach,
He Jibs! What assets they provide for scoffers,
the coves who fail to practise what they
preach!
In ringing tones, with rhetoric effective,
He passionately urged in high debate
All dads and mums, in esse or prospective,
To do their obvious duty by the State.
With all the lowered birthrate’s perils thick’ning,
You'd think he would be first into the breach,
l<^J ian 8> n 8 back. Aren’t they a trifle sick’ning,
The chaps who fear to practise what they
preach?
Alas! The Stigginses and Pecksniffs, brothers,
Are still as thick as pebbles on the beach,
reflows who shy at what they counsel others —
The men who will not practise what they
preach.
N.S.W.
IFORD.


>v.
20 fori®
10 for 9^
J. 854
They're Smooth
and they do not
affect your throat
CRAVENA
ARE MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS.
sms* ..
.^o-v
%
: m
■ii
WMii
i
'* Mki
this generation
TIPPED
CIGARETTE
POLITICAL POINTS
The A.N.A. board in Victoria has
fallen in behind Menzies and other State-
righters (and will fall in with them
presently), because it says a Yes vote on
the proposition that Section 92 shall not
apply to marketing would “mean in-
creased Commonwealth powers.” It
must have felt rather foolish when it
read what Minister Pearce said in Sydney
on Friday: “The alteration will increase
the powers of the States.”
One of the Nat. candidates for the
Wilmot State electorate denounced Pre-
mier Ogilvie for ap ingrate.
It ought to be made clear to the electors
of Wilmot that the whole of the credit for
the greatly increased Federal grant was due
to the Prime Minister, the electorate’s
representative at Canberra.
“The whole of the credit” being thus
awarded to a potentate whose seat has
been shown to be horribly unsafe, there
is nothing left for the poor old Com-
monwealth taxpayer. Of course, he is
graciously permitted to have the whole
of the debit.
For one crowded election-campaign
hour, Tasmania has had its radio priest.
Labor Premier Ogilvie put Father
O’Donnell on the Hobart Hospital
Board and, after an inquiry which thor-
oughly vindicated the O’Donnell admin-
istration, took him off again. Father
O’Donnell retaliated by telling the elec-
tors over the air that Ogilvie was “not a
true Labor man” and that for most of
the trouble at the hospital the Minis-
ter for Health, Dr. Gaha, was respon-
sible. It couldn’t have made a bit of
difference.
Douglas Credit lost the deposit it pre-
sumably put up for the man it ran in
the Darling Downs by-election. Now
it is losing its solitary Assemblyman, the
Rev. Carruthers. The rev. gentleman got
in for Denison (Tas.) three years ago
and kept in office a Labor Government
without a party majority. He stood again
on Saturday, but was crowded out.
Perhaps by way of showing that
Queensland Labor is a Youth Move-
ment, the Q.C.E. “unanimously en-
dorsed” Billy Demaine’s nomination for
the Maryborough by-election, and it is
expected that Billy will have a walkover
on Saturday. He’s only 78.
The Brisbane barrister who was com-
missioned to inquire into T. J. Hughes’s
sweeping charges against “Ministers of
the Crown and others” has reported that
there was nothing in them. If a Forrest
precedent is followed, Hughes, who is
M.L.A. for East Perth, will be expelled.
But Forrest always had a substantial
majority, and the Willcock Government
will have no majority until Willcock
returns from the Coronation.
If Canberra has a Minister whose touch
with the people has survived his hilly
seclusion with public servants and “Han-
sards,” he must be in hiding. The
Tas. election results tell their own tale:
people are weary of Canberra’s windy
politics and secret bans. Canberra didn't
satisfactorily explain the exclusion of
Mrs. Freer; it won’t tell what books it
has banned or what films it has for-
bidden. Is it, the people wonder, telling
the truth about its marketing proposals?
A sordid wrangle has been raging
among Ministerialists in Macquarie-
street, Sydney, the occasion being a free
trip to the Coronation. Buttonhole, the
Minister of Lands, wants to go, and he
says he’ll resign—not, of course, from the
Cabinet, but from the Empire Parlia-
mentary Association —if his chief,
Stevens, has the naming of the dead-
head, as has been proposed. Why not
leave it to the. taxpayers? They’re find-
ing the funds —the Empire Parliamentary
Association gets an annual grant from
each of the seven Australian Treasuries.
When Imperial Airways talked of put-
ting flying boats on the London-Austra-
lia line, Parkhill said they would be “too
slow.” With a crew of five and half a
ton of mail one of the new boats has
flown from Southampton to Alexandria,
2445 miles, in 13hr. 35min. non-stop.
Five stages like that would land mail in
Sydney in 67 hours. The land ’planes
which Parkhill would have retained take
96 hours to carry the mail from Singa-
pore to Sydney—when Sydney is lucky
The price of gas is going up in Sydney
and the price of boots and shoes every-
where ; and Queensland canebrake poli-
“Cant you recognise a War Lord when you see one?"
ticians are beginning an agitation for
an increase of \ d. a pound in the retail
price of sugar, now 4d. They were glad,
enough to get a five years’ renewal of
the agreement on the fourpenny basis
long before the old agreement expired.
Since then there have been increasing
losses on overseas sales, and it is con-
sidered that the Australian consumers
should meet them.
U.A.P. newspapers profess to be
amused at the other side being in two
minds on the marketing referendum.
What about their own side? The U.A.P.
organisation in N. S. Wales has
issued a declaration of neutrality,
and so has the Nat. organisation in W.A.
And Mr. Lyons’s adviser, Mr. Keith
Murdoch, of newspaper amalgamation
celebrity, has contrived to be on both
sides. Mr. Keith Murdoch is a No-man
in Melbourne and Brisbane, a Yes-man
in Adelaide and Perth.
Lyons’s sentiments change with the
years. In 1934 he said:
The Government realises the danger of
schemes for price-fixing developing into a
series of acute conflicts between producers
and consumers. The Government realises
the risk of schemes for guaranteed prices
resulting in overproduction and consequent
failure.
But the Government hadn’t been Paged
then.
Forgan Smith has had a hectic week.
At the beginning “a large section of the
audience of 4000 gave him a hostile re-
ception when he opened the Labor cam-
paign in support of the marketing refer-
endum at Brisbane.” Then he agreed
to set out again in search of an inter-
national sugar conference as the obedient
servant of the sugar interest. Finally, he
“hinted” that when the Premiers were
in London the British loan market
“would be sounded for the financing of
works programmes.” Add Forgan Smith
to the list of lost leaders.
U.A.P. and U.C.P. Governments con-
tinue to sell fragments of Crown land
still remaining in cities. Stevens and co.
have auctioned more blocks at Maroubra,
and Deputy Premier Old, “at the request
of a strong financial group,” is offering
another 30 acres at Fishermen’s Bend,
Melbourne. In neither case, is Parlia-
mentary opposition anticipated, although
not many years ago it would have meant
a no-confidence debate.
G. C. Latham, the Westralian C.P.
leader, who was for secession—so much
so that he tried to resuscitate it when
everyone else recognised that secession
was completely dead—is now campaign-
ing for a Yes vote. This very accom-
modating politician explains that he is
“satisfied with the assurance that State
rights are safeguarded and that the
States will have the power of initiating
marketing schemes.” He pronounces
“absurd” “the contention of our oppo-
nents that a ‘Yes’ vote means increased
prices to the consumer,” but friends like
McEwen, the C.P. M.H.R. for Echuca,
admit it.
Melbourne’s traffic code requires
motorists to stop before entering major
roads. Camberwell Council refuses to
paint the word “Stop” where its minor
streets intersect major ones. If a few
more suburban councils follow this
example of passive resistance, and a few
more erring motorists offer court excuses
of “confusion,” Melbourne will be
screaming for a different set of rules.
Paterson, of Mrs. - Freer’s - case
notoriety, to a great public meeting
(quite 46 persons were present) at
Launceston:
If our marketing legislation is not re-
stored the dairyman and the dried-fruits
grower will be forced to accept in Aus-
tralia approximately ljld. per pound less
for dried fruits and butter than the prices
ruling overseas in the greatest open market
in the world.
This when there are protective duties like
6d. a pound on currants and raisins.
Paterson must have a low opinion of the
intelligence of the few who listen to him.
“Would any thoughtful Australian
worker advocate the abolition of indus-
trial awards?” asked Brisbane “Courier-
Mail” at the beginning of an article
bespeaking a Yes vote on the marketing
issue. Has any thoughtful (or unthought-
ful) worker employed on a cow farm an
industrial award to lose? The A.W.U.
says there is none, and the A.W.U.
ought to know.
More trials of Trotskyists, real or
alleged, are preparing in Russia, and the
Trotsky counter-revolution, or whatever
it is called, has become so formidable
that Stalin has resumed world revolu-
tion, ostensibly abandoned last year, as
a policy. The British Under-Secretary
for Foreign Affairs has announced that
the Third Internationale is conducting
propaganda in Britain again, and “Soviet
disclaimers of responsibility are not
accepted.”
Apparently the proposed marketing
amendment would empower the Com-
monwealth Government' to interfere with
inter-State dealing in everything except
political favors. It is recalled that a
Queensland Government of the same
party brand as the present Queensland
Government, which is for “orderly mar-
keting,” used a dragnet clause in a
Sugar Acquisition Act to “take over” the
lighting system on a pony racecourse to
prevent race meetings which it other-
wise could not prohibit.
Rather surprisingly the second royal
commissioner’s report on Sydney's “im-
plemented” marketing “scheme” was
published before. Referendum Day. Evi-
dence and conclusions rival the Encyclo-
pedia Britannica in size, and perhaps
the idea was that nobody would bother
to read them through. One extract has
been published in a U.A.P. newspaper
without comment:
It will not be long before the Milk
Board is faced with a situation in which
it will either have to elect to allow Dairy
Farmers [its principal agent] abnormal
profits, not necessarily disclosed, or reduce
the margin between prices.
This is interesting, especially as the
chairman of the Milk Board was a joint
manager of Dairy Farmers, a U.A.P.
politician is Dairy Farmers’ chairman of
directors and a brother to Premier
Stevens is an employee.
From T. J. A. Fitzpatrick (Junee,
N.S.W.):
As a wheatgrower of half-a-century’s stand-
ing I will vote No on the marketing proposal.
Wheat marketing is a highly specialised job,
and mug boards could make a devil of a mess.
In round figures, N.S.W. and Vic. produce
yearly 90,000,000 bushels and use locally m
various ways 36,000,000 to 40,000,000 bushels.
W.A. and S.A. produce 70,000,000 bushels and
can only account locally for 12,000,000 to
16,000,000. With each State playing a lone
hand in disposing of its surplus how is it pos-
sible to make an equitable adjustment of
values? It would just be chaos.
[Any referendum matter requiring a signature
is signed by J. E. Webb and Cecil Mann,
George-street North, Sydney.]


SWINGING THE LEG.
“Lynch Law will not appear in any of the autumn races. He goes to Mentone for a fortnight or so, and there his injured leg will have the benefit of sea water all day."


A
C
N
E
R
MADE IN
AUSTRALIA
Y
JOHN HEINE
SYDNEY
McPHERSONS PTY. LTD., Me Ibournel
Adelaide. Perth —* E.S.C.A., Brisbane
hHr-ZQuvp*
Hard carbon is WASTED FUEL/,
less carbon, install Champions
The noise, the sluggishness, the lack of
speed that plague many engines are less
likely to occur if new Champions are in-
stalled once every year. Carbon which
is unbumed fuel often causes these
troubles, and Champions reduce carbon
formation to its minimum.
&
m
/HARD'
CARBON
Champion
Sparking
Plugs
Obtainable at all leading automotive supply dealers
MADE ! N WINDS OP . CANADA
• AN EMPIRE PRODUCT
Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House-
holders’ Comprehensive, Workers
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
PERSONAL ITEMS
Rex Boyden, chief pilot of the Stinson
’plane that went missing last week on
the Brisbane-Sydney air run, left Aus-
tralia at 17 to join the Royal Naval Air
Service in 1915, and had been flying
steadily ever since in all sorts of con-
ditions. His main passenger-carrying
flying was under Kingsford Smith in
Australian National Airways, over the
Bulolo route in New Guinea and with
New England Airways. He was one of
the first to fly Stinsons in Australia, and
often made the Sydney-Brisbane trip
twice daily. Beverley Shepherd, his co-
pilot, a young Sydney man with intensive
air experience which took him to Central
Australia as pilot to one of Donald
Mackay’s expeditions, was a nephew of
George Merivale, who last year was a
casualty in the motor-car accident in
which Fred Berry was fatally injured.
B. E. Minns, Australia’s best-known
portrayer of abos., last' week passed the
jubilee of his first contribution to The
Bulletin. He was in the office on Fri-
day, apparently well and cheerful and
B. E. MINNS.
pleased with a new black-and-white
technique he was developing. On Sun-
day he dropped dead while taking photo-
graphs at Taronga Zoo. Minns was
born at Inverell (N.S.W.) in 1864. He
studied under Julian Ashton and others,
worked for the Sydney “Illustrated News”
and began to contribute to The Bulletin
when the black-and-white pages were
almost monopolised by “Hop” and Phil
May. In the mid-’nineties he went to
Europe and stayed there 20 years, most
of the time painting water-colors which
he exhibited at leading shows of London
and Paris. He is well represented in the
Paris and Brussels National Galleries.
During his absence he did not forget
Australia; his black-and-whites of
Binghi and friends appeared regularly
throughout his exile, as they have ever
since—his last batch was delivered two
days before, he died. Though he is best'
known by those pictures, he was in the
world’s front rank of water-colorists. His
was a friendly personality that every-
body in inner art circles loved.
The first Bonython of the third genera-
tion to come to the front in Adelaide is
John L., elected president of the Tax-
payers’ Association at 32. Grandson of
Langdon and son of Lavington, he is a
lawyer, of Gray’s Inn “calling.” At Cam-
bridge he was captain of lacrosse and of
football (Australian Rules) against
Oxford, and played also tennis and
Rugby for King’s. '
Park Presbyterian Church, Brisbane,
which has been always noted for the
high standard of its pulpit, gets a good
Australian incumbent in C. H. B. Doug-
las, of Goulburn (N.S.W.). He began his
training course on a casual £lO, which he
earned in a printery during the big in-
fluenza epidemic. He is a B.A. of Syd-
ney University.
A long association has broken with
Delamore McCay’s leaving Sydney
“Sun.” He had been with that paper
since 1912, for the last two years as
editor-in-chief of Associated News-
papers. McCay, one of a brotherhood
which included Adam, another well-
known journalist and a general, was born
in the manse at Castlemaine (Vic.). His
first ten working years were given over
to accountancy, and he has never quite
lost the air of precision which is the hall-
mark of that profession. A sound jour-
nalist, he goes to London as “S. M.
Herald’s” European representative.
Charles Ogg (78), who took a day off
from his Consuelo station to celebrate
his golden wedding in Brisbane the other
day, was born at East Maitland (N.S.W.)
and served his apprenticeship as cattle-
man with the Bells on Coochin. He
was 27 years g.m. of Glenhaughton ; then,
with two partners, he took up Consuelo,
430 square miles, and still manages the
property. Each of his four sons served
with the Light Horse. Tom was killed
at' Mussalaba in Palestine, and Selwyn
(“Buffer”) was at The Landing.
Some March birthdays:
A. C. C. Holtz (president Australian
Newspapers’ Conference), 63, on Ist; J. B.
Cramsie (meat expert), 66, and Eric Spooner
(N.S.W. Local Government Minister), 46, on
2nd; S.A. Min. for Lands Malcolm Mclntosh,
49, on 3rd; Archbishop Mannix, 73, and N.S.W.
Senator A. K. Dein, 48, on 4th; Major-Gen.
Bruche, 64, and naturalist David Stead (N.S.W.),
60, on 6th; medico-knight Colin Mackenzie
(Aus. Inst, of Anatomy, Canberra), 60, and
S.A. Senator James McLachlan, 67, on 9th;
artist-knight John Longstaff, 75, and Speck
Premier A. G. Ogilvie, 46, on 10th; A. C.
Fisken, M.H.R. (Ballarat), 40, on 11th;
knight Frank Clarke (Vic. Leg. Council Pres.),
58, G. S. Knowles (Federal Solicitor-General),
55, and ex-N.S.W. Senator Arthur Rae, 77, on
14th; Henry Gregory, M.H.R. (Swan), 77, Walter
Lucas, pioneer island trader), 68, Mat Charlton
(ex-Federal Labor leader), 71, on 15th; N.S.W.
Govt. Geologist L. F. Harper, 64, on 17th;
novelist Bernard Cronin, 53, and artist Louis
McCubbin, 46, on 18th; poet Arthur Bayldon,
72, knight Ben Fuller, 62, author Rev. John
Armour (Vic.), 48, and W.A. Speaker A. H.
Panton, M.L.A., 60, on 20th; E. J. Ward,
M. (East Sydney), 38, on 21st; knight
Charles Marr, M.H.R., 57, E. W. Parkes (Clerk
of House of Reps.), 64, and novelist Roy
Bridges, 52, on 23rd; N.S.W. Minister Mick
Bruxner, 55, on 25th; knight Harry Gullett,
M H.R., 59, and Archie Cameron, M.H.R.
(Barker), 42, on 26th; Federal Public Service
Commissioner W. J. Clemens, 64, and Prof.-
knight Wm. Mitchell (Adel.), 76, on 27; J. S.
MacDonald (director Vic. Art Gallery), 59,
Josiah Francis, M.H.R. (Moreton), 47, and
author Alex. Chisholm, 47, on 28th; Hal Cole-
batch, 65, and L. V. Biggs (Melb. “Age”), 64,
on 29th; Speck Senator Sampson, 55, and Vic.
Min. of Public Works Goudie, 71, on 30th;
S.A. Premier Butler, 52, Bishop-Coadjutor
Wylde (Bathurst), 57, Adel.-born Prof. W. Law-
rence Bragg, F.R.S. (Nobel Prize winner), 47,
N. Chief Sec. Chaffey, 49, and ex-Federal
Speaker Norman Makin (M.H.R. for Hind-
marsh), 48, on 31st.
“W.C.T.” farewells a literary statis-
tician :
William Siebenhaar, dead after a motor-car
accident in Findon, Sussex, was for long Goy-
ernment Statistician of Westralia, and in
his last service years was Deputy-Registrar-
General. Born at The Hague (Netherlands) in
1863, he taught languages in London schools
and at Perth High School before entering the
civil service. Around the Boer War time, he
published a book of poems, Dorothea, which
was looked on as pro-Boer. His sympathies •
were with the Empire in the 1914-18 scrap, and
he was joint author of a book of sonnets ex-
tolling British fighters. He caused some stir
in foreign literary circles when Knopp’s, New
York, published his novel of official life in
Java, Max Havelaar. Many translations from
the Dutch into English were among his other
literary achievements. He liked to be called
“an academic socialist.”
W. A. Hooper, g.m. of the Brisbane
railways division, retires after 52 years
with the record of having been in charge
of every district in the State at one time
or other. He began as a station clerk at
Charters Towers in the ’eighties, rose to
station-master there and 18 years ago
became northern district superintendent.
“Dungeness”: Another link with the
earlies of the N.S.W. Northern Rivers
was broken by the death of Mrs. Jane
Matilda Jarvis. She was born at Pater-
son, on the Hunter, and in young
womanhood was famed as a horsewoman
among a community of skilled riders.
Her husband, James Jarvis, selected at
Clunes, on the. Richmond, 51 years ago,
and lived there for 49 of them. Unlike
most old ladies Mrs. Jarvis had no
admiring regrets for the good old days,
and openly envied the younger genera-
tion for being born in an age when they
can have a good time.
Percy Everett, who has been in Aus-
tralia as Baden-Powell’s deputy for the
Adelaide Centenary Scout Jamborees, is
one of the most enthusiastic grown-up
Wolf Cubs in Britain. He is as tall as
his leader is short, and no Scout has any
alternative but to look up at him. At
Cambridge he was more than something
of a mathematician —he passed as 15th
Baden-Powell’s Offsider.
wrangler. As an antidote to scouting,
which is his only active pastime, Everett
is a member of London’s Savage Club.
He was knighted seven years ago.
Shipping is to Norway what wool is to
Australia, and the heart of Norwegian
shipping is the WillTWilhelmsen firm, with
its 70 ships trading over the world. It
has had links with Australia for genera-
tions, and now carries a great deal of
Australia’s wool to Europe and U.S.A.
N. S. Wales head of the firm is Niels
NIELS STORAKER, Honorary
Norwegian Consul.
Storaker, who has been in Australia 20
years. A native of Kristiansand, he took
a university degree, was two years in
the Krigskolen —Oslo’s Duntroon —and
some time in a commercial college; then
he went into the paper business, serv-
ing the Union Paper Co. in Hamburg
and London until 1915, when he came
to Australia as the co.’s representative.
In 1929, on the death of Consul Olav
Pauss, he became managing director of
Wilh Wilhelmsen. A quiet, popular man,
he is honorary Norwegian Consul in
Sydney. He spends a great part of the
winter on skis, on which he is an expert.
Largely responsible for Vic. extensions
of the credit fonder system to loans
on private cottages and shops and to
persons of small means, George Edward
Emery, g.m. of the State Savings Bank
from 1897 to 1929, died in Melbourne
last week. Joining the Vic. bank’s
Castlemaine branch at £3O a year in
1874, he reached head office in five years,
and he saw 11 branches grow to 170 with
about 1000 employees and deposits
almost £74,000,000. Commercial Mel-
bourne also knew him as chairman of
directors of the Mutual Store, a director
of Brighton Gas Co. and of Colonial
Mutual Life Assurance. Like many an-
other country boy —he was born in Sale
in 1859—he thrived in the city.
The Fellowship of Australian Writers
showed its appreciation of president Frank
Dalby Davison by re-electing him un-
opposed at its annual meeting last week.
Perhaps the most popular president the
Fellowship has had, Davison came to
the chair 12 months ago unused to public
speaking and only slightly acquainted
with the rules of debate. He has proved
an able and impartial chairman. Dame
Mary Gilmore, Tom Inglis Moore, of the
“S. M. Herald,” Flora Eldershaw, whose
latest collaboration with Marjorie Bar-
nard is shortly due to arrive on the Aus-
tralian market, and Arthur Crocker are
the Fellowship’s vice-presidents for 1937.
W. E. Fitz Henry (secretary) is having
another run in double harness with
Davison.


;
A.W.A. lias made available to the public highly organ-
ised wireless telegraph services which are noted for
their speed, accuracy and economy. New develop-
ments and extensions are constantly being effected
with the object of giving the public even better service.
The Company established and to-day operates the
Beam Wireless Telegraph Service, Trans-Ocean Wire-
less Telephone, and the Beam Picturegram Service
between Australia and overseas. A.W.A. also operates
the Australian Coastal Radio Service and the Pacific
Island Services in New Guinea, Papua and Fiji.
For over 23 years A.W.A. wireless services have been
conducted on ships at sea for the safety of life and for
the interchange of public wireless telegrams between
ship and shore.
£
m
0
m
me.
f,
98
mm.
*•*»
‘•'das
m
f%-; ** 4r*
:W:*:S:
In every phase of commercial and industrial develop-
ment efficient communication services are essential.
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS
(AUSTRALASIA) LIMITED
AUSTRALIA'S NATIONAL WIRELESS ORGANISATION


ABORIGINALITIES
BEENLEINGH RUM "MINE TINK IT BEST"
“Gravelsnatcher”: Don’t run away
with the idea that because your Italian
can live on the smell of an oily rag (B.
13/1/’37) he does so always or from
choice. The chaps I worked with in the
Boya quarries (W.A.) were the heartiest
meat-eaters I’ve struck. Rump steak
every time, and it had to come, off not
too close to the horns. Price no object.
The fact is that the Italian, naturally a
high liver, can make shift with whatever
comes to hand in an emergency, and
make it to such good purpose that a
stew composed mainly of magpie,
butcher-bird and willie-wagtail tastes as
though it isn’t. The classic example con-
cerns Tony, the self-constituted culinary
expert during Mum’s absence. Ques-
tioned as to the contents of his delicious
pies, he said they were rabbits. Dad
protested that there wasn’t a rabbit on
the property. “Yis, yis,” Tony beamed.
“Say miaow, miaow!”
H* $
“Axel”: “Talkin’ of cussedness,” said
Mick, when we had thrown and branded
the. last steer. “OP Jacob and his son,
who used to live across the crick there,
beat cockfightin’. They was never
known to agree once in close on 35 year.
Obsternacy? Why, I seen ol’ Jake walk
seven mile home from where ’e was mus-
terin’ after ’is ’orse. had broke its leg
because young Jake reckoned he oughter
wait an’ get a lift with the mailman!
Well, about three year ago, ol’ Jacob
gits a bit childish and takes to wanderin’
o’ nights, an’ one mornin’ he was missirP.
A search party found ’is tracks goin’
right down to the crick, which was pretty
high at that time, so they reckons the
ol’ feller must’ve fell in an’ was
drownded. Well, they searched down-
stream for a few mile, but they never
found no traces of ’im, so they thinks he.
must’ve been caught in a snag or some-
think. A couple o’ days after, young
’Arry Lewis from up the crick found
the ol’ man’s corp way upstream caught
in some reeds. When the news was
broke to young Jake he jes’ nods with
a sorta I-tole-you-so look, spits, then
drawls out, ‘Well, the ol’ bloke always
was a can-tank-er-russ ol’ cow. He’d
jes’ as sooner float upstream as down.”
* * * *
“Nordbo”: If you ever visit Mount
Mulligan (N.Q.) don’t bet drinks for the
crowd that there is no such thing as a
white cockroach. The locals like to
catch new arrivals that way. There are
millions of them in the coalmine.
-S' *!• *l*
“Koolpinyah”: Binghi certainly
doesn’t rely on manual imprints in his
detective work. On Koolpinyah station
(N.T.) our head boy, old Frank, came
up one day and said he had caught his
lubra, Minnie, with Samson, another of
our hands. The old man said, “Me no
more zee them proper, boss, but me bin
look tracks ; two pfeller bin zsit down
all right.” Minnie, confronted with the
evidence, had to admit the deductions
were sound, and back she went to the
compound at Darwin.
“Pom”: We’d been out on the Lynd
(N.Q.) tin-scratching for two months,
when corn-beef went off the menu.
“Never thought you’d have to run for
miles killing your dinner when y’ were
in the Old Dart, did y’?” my mate
grinned that night, while oiling the rifle.
“Well, here’s where we get one without
running,” I said. “Gimme that rifle!”
Having loaded it, I grabbed the torch
and threw aside the flap of the tent.
There were six or eight rat-kangaroos
(or kangaroo-rats, as they are inaccu-
rately called) feasting on mouldy bits of
damper about 10 yards away. I got
one. The rest scampered, but they were
back in about two minutes; I got an-
other, and we had a dinner fit for epi-
cures. The rat-kangaroo is probably the
best ground game to be had—not only
in N. Queensland, but anywhere. It’s
what an Old Country hare should be
like, but often isn’t. Yet it’s despised
by the bushwhacker, who prefers the
rank, evil-smelling meat of the wallaby
and Too. Why?
# • * * -i-
-“Centre”: Dry-backed frogs? They
just don’t exist, no matter how long
they’ve been sunbaking in dry climates.
The skin of the frog, in common with
that of all other living things, is never
dry while the pores function. Through
the present drought several large green
frogs have camped daily along the rafters
that support the iron roof of my cream
separator shed. There’s not half an inch
“I'm afraid We've lost our way. Sheik. Can you direct us to Australia?"
clearance between their backs and the
iron, which is too hot to put your hand
on, but I’ve found their skins cool and
damp on the hottest day. They croak a
cheerful chorus whenever the separator
is in use, and show similar appreciation
of the sounds of emery-wheel, blow-
lamp, handsaw and wood-rasp. I’m
wondering what they’ll do if it ever
rains.
* * * *
“Naghee-r”: When some highly re-
spectable citizen is choosing a pretty
native name for his new near-Hollywood-
design suburban villa, just approaching
completion on time-payment, he will do
well to ascertain precisely what that
name means in English. The abo. was
given to an exceeding outspokenness on
a variety of matters which, in decent
suburban society, are veiled strictly from
the respectable ear or eye. Only last
week 1 noticed in a fashionable suburb
weeK i noucea in a idsnionaoie suouio
a neat house bearing a name which, did
the local sanitary authorities but under-
int local sdniidiy du auim s u
stand the Wakkool dialect, called for
their most urgent attention. Railway
stations in parts ot Queensland also
meaning One wonders for example
ened Cambooya station really knew what
he was doing. Horses, too—when Mopo
won several races at N.Q. meets a few
years ago his name provided the local
abos. with a howling joke which still
survives.
“M.L.W.”: Recent suggestions for
limiting' shearers to a fixed number of
sheep per day remind me of some fancy
notions tried out in old-time sheds,
There was a particularly fast shearer at
one shed where a limit of 100 sheep had
been set. By dinner-time Ned, his quota
finished,' would go over the daily argu-
ment with the boss: “Why can’t I go
on ; ain’t I shearin’ ’em well enough?”
“I don’t think I’ve ever seen better shear-
ing, but you know the rule here.” “Pay
me’off and let me go to another shed
then.” “Nothing doing.” And the boss
would walk over to look at his prize
rams in the paddock at the back of the
shed, while Ned sulked to the hut. One
day the boss went to town and returned
just as Ned shoved the last sheep down
the chute. “I suppose I’ll have to knock
off at 85 to-day, boss,” Ned grumbled,
“because them rams counts as two.”
“Rams!” yelled the boss as he leaped
for Ned’s chute and peered down at 15
very naked rams which should have been
fully clothed and looking their best for
the show the following week. “You’re
sacked!” he spluttered, pointing a shak-
ing finger. A happy Ned rolled his swag,
° * * *
“Double Dee”: In W.A. foxes have
started slaughtering another form of
native life—the swans which flock in
thousands to a large lake in the south-
west. The water is shallow, and swans
feeding on the edge fall easy victims,
being too slow in taking off to avoid the
foxes pouncing out from the scrub. The
other day one lot of 100 swans with
heads severed were found close to the
i k
* * * *
“Wippegong”: Can appreciate the diflfi-
culty of the lad in Joliffe’s drawing (B.
27/1/’37) in his efforts to back old
Punch between the shafts, but it really
doesn’t matter if he fails, as there’s no
back-chain in the saddle to hold the
shafts up if he gets the horse there. The
harness lacks breeching, which is useful
in dray work, and, though some do with-
C ut it, this hardly excuses the absence
G f breeching hooks on the shafts. Load-
ing an d stacking firewood, full bags,
etc., into this dray would be. awkward,
no provision having been made for re-
moving front- and tail-boards, the whole
body being nailed together like a butter-
box. Hay frames are usually built flat
on the top of the body, thus assisting in
the building of a fairly flat, non-slip-
P*?B load, though it is recognised that
, s . would not be possible w * • s
y^ lcas the. body-top is much ower
than the tops of the j vheels this in turn,
to n 6 snrines h And S if the
goden *° put ia the springs. And if
g o mg is rough those wheels mightn t
® f th t £ fnr not e j eht
~’ , V ’
are the usual number. Altogether it looks
- f • h t ware of { he
a dtsastroul ’davahead has
the„ aS position sho™ to
“« ihe p oo '- mus fr °™ worse
th ough where he’d find a two-pronged
P i,c “ ork in Aus,ralian hay COUn,ry 15
ha rd to say.
* „ " Q .
‘ Johnhop : A mid-northern S. .
grape-grower fought a losing battle for
several seasons against a strongly-grow-
ing unknown plant which seriously inter-
fered with his vines. At last he sent
some to Adelaide for identification. The
plant proved to be liquorice (Glycyrrhiza
glabra), and a firm of manufacturing
chemists offered to take all he could
supply. So he joyfully discarded his
vines and concentrated on cultivating the
one-time nuisance. Inspired by his suc-
cess, several neighbors followed suit, to
find that the liquorice would grow on
only a few of the properties. A very
local soil difference was the explanation,
and now most of them have sadly re-
planted their vines,
* * * *
. R-W.D. . It top Rail (B. 3/_/ 37
tries swallowing his next fish meal raw
whole and unchewed, he will understand
why gulls spar for time after each catch,
ft must be a ticklish business getting a
five fish adjusted and pointed m the
right direction without the aid of hands
and a slight mistake can mean a lot ot
trouble. I once found a pelican at the
gateway of the happy fishing-grounds
through its having approached a small
bream from the tail-end, with the result
that the backward-sloping fins had
tanned out and pierced the throat The
champion swallower among feathered
fishers is the cormorant; it downs even
bullrouts without apparent trouble,
though those repulsive little grunters
bristle with spikes capable of giving a
man an hour or so of agony,
.... , «,
Megam Whatsh Ssh y
Pfevenshun Cruelty dom bout p
P 1 a J- Byron Baysh. Ushter kill
Wlt b a hammer. Now cruel capita is i
cows put em on the shpot (all n 111
have ’nother), like Merrhican gangshters
who ain’t got ’nough dollarsh ter shquare
polishe. No shenshe goin gangshterin
wirrout ’nough gonce for polishe. But
worrldonlike ish ’lectrocutin’ poor pigsh.
Berreran gangshters, pigsh is. How’d
gangshters like ’lectric tongs behind their
earsh? Then gerrer throatsh cut? Shay
pigsh don’t shqueal after ’lectric tongsh
put bellin’ earsh, sho can’t feel throatsh
bein’ cut. Gangshters shqueal. Get
bumped off for shquealin’. Shay pigsh
bleed berrer after ’lec-hic-tnshity.
Warrerbout bleedm’ gangshters. Merrhi-
can polishe bleed gangshters pigsh am
S°t nO . polishe. No votes neither,
W ate kik-ruelty poor detenshless pigs,
Why do ! | I Joe Lyons do shomet; i
slead of runnm a way
nasnuns. * *
“Valerin”: “Plankton” (B. 3/2/’37)
belongs to the soda-and-camp-oven-
hamper age. When 1 made dampers
there were no noospapers an d not
enough B rease t 0 start a B im ] et - Epi-
cures w ho objected to a bit of charcoal
. , h h k whirh when cold makes
burnt box baric, wmen wnen com, nwK
a pure white ash. Procedure, scrap
; t , i; ith gentlv slip
? ut a hole line with the asn, genuy mir
,n th , e S ° d l and COVer W 1 h the aS
fj' Result: a clean ertsp crust. <
‘ ,cei ° n ” : a »»««*» * *5 °i
n.q. surprised himself when he let both
parrels of his shotgun go at a chicken-
fiawk P erc h ed 011 h? nd k,. . d
The hoe was one of 12 the ch pp
left standing in a cluster, an y
handles were so full of ] ead a JX
holiday had to be declared tordie t o
to replace them. The hawk flew av y.
IN THE ENGINE-ROOM.
Gum-trees in the noontide —how my heart goes
out to them!
Slender, stately columns, crowned with dusty
green,
Silver in the sunlight,
Marble in the moonlight!
And I’m staring at a dirty wall beyond a
big machine.
Magpies in the dawning, carillons of silver
notes,
Pulsing with the joy of life and hymning
praise to God.
In my ears they’re echoing,
Through my brain they’re fluting
While I listen to the thumping of a ram-
ming piston-rod.
Breath of grasses heavy with the fragrant
blooms of bushland,
Acrid tang of manna, resinous and rare,
Pure and sweet and wholesome—
How I’d fill my lungs with it!
I’m breathing stinking engine oil and foetid
furnace air.
Sunlit, scented bushland, sights and sounds and
smells of it—
Thank Heaven they’re still with me, though
there’s years between.
If I ever lose them,
All that would be left of me
Would stain the wall a darker brown and
slow the big machine!
N.S.W.
C. E. H.


“Tumbe Munda”: Old Dan the
trapper cursed loud and long over the
frequent visits of an eagle to his traps,
but at last the bird in a careless moment
was itself caught. Dan spread the good
news to his friends. “I s’pose y’ killed
him?” said one. “No,” said Dan. “I
cut his blanky wings and said to him:
‘Now, yer cow, you can walk around
the traps the same as I do’!”
* * * *
“Pack-bag”: For originality in cap-
turing rabbits I’ll back a contrivance I
saw near Wakool Crossing (N.S.W.). A
large, open, logged pit stood beside a
netting fence, and across the top two
large mirrors were set up back to back.
Cottontails, not recognising the vision in
the mirror as themselves, ran on and
fell down the hole. “It never misses,”
the designer told me, “and it catches
snakes and all.”
* * * *
“Vulagi”: “Enpee” (B. 13/1/’37)
touches on a fact well-known in Fiji
when he mentions horses losing their
“Give us ago with it. Dig. — I've ’ad somethin stuck in me throat since last night!"
tails from eating vi-vi. I have seen ip.any
a native-owned nag there with only an
india-rubber-looking stump for tail. Yet
cows seem to do well on the stuff with-
out any depilatory effects, and I never
saw a billygoat lose his beard.
* * * *
“Ming”: A youth I met in the Goul-
burn district (N.S.W.) collected a handy
sum for the foxes he shot on his em-
ployer’s station. He went after Reynard
when the pelt was in good condition, and
carefully removed and dried the skins.
For a first-class pelt with a good brush.
15s. was readily paid by the local lasses,
and a local furrier made the skins up,
beautifully silk-lined and finished, for
another 30s. Most of the wearers had
the skins dyed dark-brown. The youth
was never ahead of his orders.
* * * *
“Johnhop”: Have just struck a trick
in sheep-dog training which was new to
me. Before working his dogs the owner
always runs them in a small finely-
gravelled yard, not, as I imagined, to
toughen their feet, but to teach them to
keep their toes together. An acquired
distaste for sharp-pointed stones between
their toes keeps them free from grass
seeds when they are on the job—most
important where a lame dog hinders
rather than helps.
* * * *
“Harry N.”: It is not generally known
that lyrebirds indulge in collective
mimicry. Recently in our district, which
is noted as a haunt of Menura, a small
recreation hut was put up. Saturday-
night hops soon became regular, but my
cobber and I were astounded to hear the
old piano and accordion hard at it one
Friday evening. We went to the hall,
but it was in darkness. The music came
from a little clearing a hundred yards
away, and there we were staggered to
see a whole troop of lyrebirds going
through the figures of the Alberts, two
birds providing the music—and a great
job they made of it! The imitation was
completed by a small group of birds
lounging against tree-fern trunks and
passing round an empty beer-bottle.
# * * *
“Carmi”: Does any creature besides
a human being relish mint? Horses,
cattle, sheep, pigs, goats, fowls, ducks
and turkeys have all at some time or
other gained access to my mint patch,
and not one would take the herb on.
Puss and Pup prefer anything else when
seeking a vegetable tonic. Insects give
it a wide berth, and to fleas it is anathema
also. However, the fisherman will always
find the best bloodworms lurking among
the mint roots.
* * * *
“Kali”: As well as dieting on flying-
ants, the dragon-fly (B. 3/2/’37) is death
to mosquitoes, both in the air and while
in the larval stage in the water. The
d.f. larvae have insatiable appetites and
feed exclusively on the mosquito larvae.
* * * *
“R.W.D.”: I can believe “Osh” (B.
20 /1 / ’37) has been “lucky” in shooting
wallabies at night by the thumping sound
of their tails. Wallab is something of a
psychologist in his own way. When he
scents danger and dense undergrowth
or other obstacle prevents a clear get-
away, he takes several long bounds, the
heavy thudding of his tail resounding
through the bush and advertising his
whereabouts in an apparently guileless
manner. Then, silence. Naturally the
hunter fixes the location at the place of
the last thud and directs his attention and
attack at that point, but by this time the.
wallaby is many yards away, crawling
noiselessly with his stumpy forelegs
and, one imagines, curling his whiskers
in a sarcastic sneer.
“Sambhur”: N.S.W. National Park is
another spot where imported deer herds
are developing into a menace. They’ie
not only troubling neighboring cockies,
but threaten the valuable plant life of
the park itself. Further, where the deer
are plentiful, native animals vanish. In
the annual report of the Park Trust a
campaign of extermination is advocated
“Parson be blessin' new bell after service, Tummas."
“ Eh? Well, 'e Want to bless pretty 'ard to make up for curses I gave
it first thing ’smornin ', Cap'n .”
on similar lines to those adopted in
M.L., where the job has absorbed a
number of unemployed men in a healthy,
outdoor life, the Government supplying
equipment and paying a bonus for each
deer shot as well as allowing the shooters
to keep and market the skins.
* * * *
“Double Dee”: That a shark has
extraordinary powers of digestion was
proved at Carnarvon (W.A.) recently.
A cat, tied in a sack, had been thrown
into the sea. Eight days later a shark
was landed and found to contain the
still-securely-tied sack with only a small
ball of fur left in it to indicate that it
had held the cat. Not even a bone was
left, so the shark must have digested
Puss through the hessian.
* * * *
“Anthropo”: Why won’t Binghi eat
a snake that has bitten itself? Because
of age-old tribal taboos. In pre-white
days snake was a delicacy reserved for
elders and rigidly taboo to younger
bucks. The. elders may not have had
teeth hollow enough to admit venom to
the bloodstream, but there is every prob-
ability that their periodic gormandising
caused some of them to suffer from
gastric ulcers, which would readily per-
mit venom to be absorbed into the blood,
Quick to link effect with cause, the sur-
vivors would thereafter regard self-bitten
serpent with suspicion, and there would
be a further extension of taboos.
“Skull Creek”: “Long Rifle’s” failure
to pot that eagle-hawk (B. 27/1/’37) may
have been due to the fact that the eagle
is mostly feathers —the body is not much
bigger than a magpie’s. A more prob-
able explanation—although it may seem
ridiculous to a marksman of “Long
Rifle’s” calibre —is that perhaps he didn’t
shoot straight.
* * * *
“C. 8.”: How long can a camel go
without water? David Lindsay asserts
in his diary kept during the Elder scien-
tific expedition (1891-92) that the camels
had to go without a drink for as long as
24 days on a stretch. I always thought
this an Australian record, but an Afghan
cameleer swears by the beard of
Mahomet that he kept a she-camel in
a fenced-off paddock in Western Queens-
land for 12 months, during which time
she had no water but what was to be
got in the form of dew on saltbush and
acacias. A foal born at the end of three
months had to be coaxed into drinking
when they were let out. Both were in
tip-top condition.
* * * *
“Centre”: Parrots, eh? Our ancient
S’African grey reproduces the noise of
the bathroom tap being suddenly turned
on. Can any human tongue do that ?
The same feathered nuisance can give the
song of the bullfrog to perfection, and
generally chooses to do it at night, per-
haps with an idea of making it sound
more realistic. It also fools the local
cats, and then curses them when they
come snooping round in search of the
non-existent serenader. It has one habit
which may lead it to an early grave—
that of greeting me as I tiptoe into the
house in the small hours with its raucous
hail of “Hello, George! Hello, George!
You’re late! You’re late!”
* * * *
“Kriz”: Another queer denizen of
Groperland’s nor’-west coast is the
angling fish, found in rocky pools near
the reefs out of Broome. Plump-bodied,
but with a very feeble tail, these fish are
equipped with a rodlike filament on the
end of the snout, and may be seen
wriggling their way in the sand rather
than swimming. When they have found
a likely looking spot they wriggle down
in the sand until nothing but this rodlike
filament is left standing out. Prawns
investigate and are gobbled up. Yet
another is the mangrove fish, equipped
with peculiar fins under the body which
enable it to walk up trees. Living on the
worms found in the mud near man-
groves, this fish, at the first approach of
its deadly enemy the crab, makes for
the nearest mangrove tree and scampers
up to safety.
THE HOME WIND.
Far are the ways that we have trod,
Many a strange fair land
Under the blue of alien skies,
Many a distant strand;
But through all the scenes of our vagrom days
There was ever an unsung song
That came like a cry when the south wind blew
And the dusks were lone and long.
“Come back,” it cried, “to the river-land,
To the green of a rippled reach.
Where the willows are trailing their slender
boughs
On the curve of a silver beach.
The tall flax drips in the gleaming swamps,
Brown blossom beside the track;
To the scent of the briars on the windy hills,
To the flare of the gorse, come back!”
We have lingered long where bursting elms
Swayed on the lonely downs,
Where airs blew soft through the wakening
woods,
Tossing the windflowers’ crowns;
Deep in a hedgerow a brown thrush called,
Linnets piped high and long,
But clear through the music of bird and breeze
Came the note of the far, soft song.
“Come back, come back to the river ways,
To the bush where the keen wind soughs,
Where the tuis are dancing in carnival
In the puriris’ berried boughs.
Out on the reedy, still lagoons
Sail the wild swans, gleaming black,
On the limpid waters beneath young moons
in the amethyst eves. Come back!”
In morning hours we have listened, rapt,
To a magpie’s echoing call,
A note that ripples, clarion-clear,
Through the gum-trees gaunt and tall;
Wonder of blossom in sunlit leagues,
Flutter of radiant wings,
Laughter and light, but ever the song,
The song that the home-wind sings.
“Come back to the land over Kiwa’s Sea,
To the isles in the sparkling bay,
To the seething surf on the western shore
Over the sand-dunes grey,
Where the little ships with the tawny sails
Are braving the bar’s wild wrack.
)o the wind and the murk and the drifting rain
On the hills of home, come back!”
N.S.W.
TROY.


Who Is Your Trustee?
Dues be possess the knowledge and experience which the acceptance of that office
demands?
Permanent Trustee Co.
OF N.S.W., LTD
Incorporated 1888 to act as Executors and Trustees.
This Company offers unexcelled trust service, combining security and experience
with efficient administration.
Write for explanatory Booklet, sent free, on request.
Directors - .
0. E. FRIEND F. N. YARWOOD
CECIL H. DOYLE (Chairman)
J. W. BARNES, Manager. E. V.
23-25 O’CONNELL STREET,
SIR THOMAS BUCKLAND
W. G. HULL
T. WHITTLE, Asst. Mgr.
SYDNEY.
ADAMS’ (TATTERSALL’S) HOTEL,
259 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 484 GEORGE STREET.
Rooms, 6/- and 8/- per day; Breakfast, Table d’Hote or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
five public dining rooms.
Lunch from 12 noon (Sunday, 12.45 p.m.), Din ner from 5.80 p.m. (Sunday, 5.45 p.m.).
Tables nr Seats mav be reserved i
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
DiRECTORS-James Love, Esq. (Chairman); W. H. Hart, Esq. ;M. J . Ryan, Esq..
F. E, Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., O.M.G.
General Manager— M. G. HAYMEN.
With offices at London. Canberra (Federal Territory). Melbourne, Sydney, and
branches C in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N S Wales, aLo representat.on
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia andthe Yorld, tn
Bank offers thTfuflest facilities for the transaction of all general banking busing*.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Union Bank of Australia, Ltd.
Dividends. Writ-
Feb., Profit. 15 p.c. ten Off. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1926.. 627,611 525,000 50,000 4.295,513
1927.. 627,426 525,000 50,000 4,347,939
Premiums on new shares. £600,000 4,947,939
1928.. 638,965 562,500 ' 50,000 ) 4049404
Provident fund, £25,000.. .. )
1929.. 611,932 600,000 25,000 4,936,336
12 i p.c.
1930.. 525,665 500,000 25,000 4,936,991
7 p.c. To Reserves.
1931.. 283,019 280,000 3,019 4,940,010
4 p.c.
1932.. 160,954 160,000 954 4,940,964
5 p.c.
1933.. 209,559 200,000 9,559 4,950,523
1934.. 203,509 200,000 3,509 4,954,032
Aug.,
1934.. 106,999 100,000 6,999 5,061,031
1935.. 214,985 200,000 14,985 5,076,016
1936.. 240,848 200,000 20,848 5,096,864
The Union is a stolid 99-year-old
Anglo-Aust'ralasian institution which
gathers about 31 p.c. of its deposits in
Victoria, 19 p.c. in N. S. Wales, 10 p.c.
in Queensland and 23 p.c. in Maoriland,
the balance being spread over the rest
of the Australian States. The board’s
policy of issuing capital at a substantial
premium (as much as 120 p.c. in 1924),
thereby making a high nominal rate of
dividend inevitable in good times, has
been responsible for much misconcep-
tion about banking profits. Actually
share premiums make the div. worth
no more than slightly over half the
declared rate on three of the four mil-
lion of share capital. Also, the fact that
there is £5,096,864 of reserves visibly
assisting and supporting capital means
that total funds (capital and reserves
combined) need turn in only 2.2 p.c. to
cover a 5 p.c. div.
Last year a growth of £981,441 in
deposits was accompanied by an expan-
sion of £656,511 in advances and
£410,043 in low-interest-bearing liquids.
Australian banking averages for the last
quarter of 1936 show that 65.1 p.c. of
the co.’s total deposits was interest-
bearing (64.6 p.c. in 1935), which is
about 3 p.c. above the average for all
the trading banks. However, trade im-
proved, interest rates strengthened a
little, and the outlook generally con-
tinued to brighten, thus making the need
to provide for contingencies less pressing,
except perhaps in Maoriland. After
making whatever provisions were con-
sidered necessary, there was a spring of
£66,511 in gross earnings:
1933. 1935. 1936.
Grass profit .. £1,107,036 £1,034,618 £1,101,129
Management exes.,
etc 657,809 664,151 686,296
Taxation . . . . 239,668 155,482 173,985
Net profit . . £209,559 £214,985 £240,848
Management charges, etc. (up £22,145),
gobbled 62 p.c. of gross earnings as
against 64 p.c. in 1935. The taxgatherer
called for an extra £18,503, leaving the
net result £25,863 better at 6 p.c. on
capital, or 2.6 p.c. on capital and re-
serves combined. The div. was kept at
5 p.c., but a payment' at the rate of
6 p.c. p.a. has been made since the close
of accounts.
With the rise in the price of wool,
wheat and metals and the tendency of
interest rates to harden, prospects of
further improvement in earnings are
bright. Also, since divs. are paid in
sterling, 6 p.c. is worth p.c. in Aus-
tralian and Maoriland currency. Thus
at £ll the £l5 shares paid to £5 (the
other £lO is callable only in the event
of liquidation) return 3.4 p.c. on a 6 p.c.
div. basis. The investor who looks for
4 p.c. on his money counts on a 7 p.c.
distribution, which is a very reasonable
anticipation, all things considered. The
net tangible cover is visibly 455. 6d. per
pound of paid capital.
Here is the position so far as balance-
sheet figures show it:
Liabilities.
A ug-, Aug., Aug.,
__ A 1934. 1935. 1936.
£?l es •• •• £280,617 £52,456 £7,567
Bills, etc 760,429 1,116,666 1,197,913
Deposits . . . . 36,460,479 33,429,249 34,410,690
Assets.
Liquid assets . . 13,786,512 11,827,071 12,237,114
Advances .. . . 32,417,659 31,472,830 32,129,341
Premises .. .. 376,386 374,486 366,578
When the books closed, advances
amounted to 93.3 p.c. of deposits, com-
pared with 94.1 p.c. a year earlier and
85.4 p.c. in 1929. Liquids were 35.3 p.c.
of liabilities to the public, and the bank
was holding £3 18s. 3d. of outside money
for every pound of its own. The co. is
well equipped to further expand its lend-
ing connections, and therefore its earning
power.
Carlton Brewery, Ltd. (Melb.)
To Re- Nominal
Dec., Profit. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
1926.. 121,010 14 p.c. = 114,379 6,631 162,042
1927.. 130,616 14 „ „ 114,379 16,237 178,279
1928.. 131,188 14 „ „ 114,379 16,809 195.086
1929.. 130,021 14 „ ~114,379 15,642 210,730
1930.. 102,022 101 „ „ 85,784 16,238 226,968
1931.. 73,925 8 „ ~ 65,359 8,566 235,534
1932.. 70,900 8 „ „ 65,359 5,541 241,075
1933.. 73,798 8 ~ „ 65,859 8,439 249,514
1934.. 75.3J4 9 ~ „ 73,530 1,784 251,298
1935.. 87.880 10 „ „ 81,699 6,181 257.479
1936.. 106,787 12 „ „ 98,038 8,749 266,228
This is the chief of half a dozen holding
cos. through which the public is inter-
ested in Carlton and United Breweries,
the big operating concern which supplies
Victoria with most of its beer, and has
strong connections in North Queensland
and Tasmania as well. In December,
1934, C.U.B. made a one-for-two gift
issue, raising the holding of Carlton and
its wholly-owned subsidiary to 929,293
shares (38 p.c. of C.U.B.’s capital), which
figure at £631,704, no account having
been taken of the gift in the books. At
the end of 1936 other assets of Carlton
and its subsidiary combined were their
old brewery premises, £150,000 ; hotels,
£119,062; debtors, £252,513; furniture,
£126; cash, £11,326. Sundry creditors
of the pair figured for £16,849. Carl-
ton’s paid capital is £816,992.
The next table shows what the share-
holdings and other assets have turned
in:
C.U.B. Vic. Co.’s
and Vic. Rents, Surplus
Dec., Cos.’ Divs. Interest, etc. Profits.
1926.. £100,883 £27,821 £236G
1927.. 106,336 26,985 5446
1928.. 106,336 28,638 5493
1929.. 106,336 28,310 5121
1930.. 89,430 30,910 3532
1931.. 67,073 24,564 599
1932.. 61,620 20,765 339
1933.. 61,620 20,742 1493
1934 . . 63,120 22,113 180
1935.. r 73,344 24,521 2455
1936.. 90,930 25,770 2186
The spring of £18,566 in last year’s gross
income (£118,885) was due mainly to the
lift from 8 p.c, to 10 p.c. in C.U.B.’s div.
Exes. (£12,099) were £341 lighter, leav-
ing the net result £18,907 better at a
shade over 13 p.c. on capital. Carlton
lifted its div, from 10 p.c. to 12 p.c.
Actually, the position is better than
Carlton’s figures suggest, because they
do not include the holding co.’s interest
in C.U.B.’s undistributed profits. For
the 12 months to June 30 last, the operat-
ing co. netted £381,653, of which the
Carlton and Victoria cos.’ proportion
was £121,124, or 14 p.c. on Carlton's
capital. The operating co., however, dis-
tributed only 77 p.c. of its profits. Carl-
ton’s figures for the current year will
benefit by the abolition of the special
Federal tax of 5 p.c. on income from
property. It all gives the 12 p.c. div.
a comfortable look, and prospects are
encouraging.
Sales and consumption of beer in Vic-
toria have advanced in this way over the
last five years:
t— 1 Consumption
Year to Sales, Gallons
June 30. Gallons. Gallons. per Head.
1932.. 17,531,090 14,184,200 7.9
1933.. 18,060,730 14,063,700 7.8
1934.. 20,071,765 15,969,300 8.8
1935.. 21,327,523 16,958,500 9.3
1936.. 23,469,853 19,538,800 10.6
Sales include inter-State business. With-
in the State consumption, which was 12
gallons a head in 1927-28, has advanced
from 7.8 gallons to 10.6 gallons per head
over the last three years.
At 665. 6d. Carlton’s fully-paid pound
shares return 3.6 p.c. on a 12 p.c. div.
basis; the market thus discounts its
prospects.
Hackshalls, Ltd. (Sydney)
Net To Re- Nominal
Dec., Profit. Dividend. serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
Transferred to capital, £12,000 ) 3 0 -,g
1926.. 17,241 I2i p.c. = 12,100 5141 j
1927.. 15,722 121 „ „ 12,500 3222 6,435
1928.. 25,748 121 „ ~16,146 9602 16,037
1929.. 34,236 121 „ „ 27,083 7153 23,190
Loss.
1930.'. 2,982 2 „ „ 5,208 15,000
Written off investments, £7500.. 7,500
Profit.
1931.. 6,250 21 p.c. = 6,250 7,500
1932.. 7,500 21 „ „ 6,250 1250 8,750
Written off investments, £1250 . 7,500
1933.. 17,165 6 p.c. = 15,165 200 J 9,500
1934.. 18,505 6 „ ~16,505 2000 11,500
1935.. 9,136 2$ „ „ 7,136 2000 13,500
Deficit.
Goodwill, etc., disclosed, £46,815.. 33,315
1936.. 20,000 6 p.c. = 18,000 2000 31,350
The bread- and biscuit-making and
flourmilling businesses, in which this
cO. and its subsidiaries are engaged, have
become so crowded that, of recent years,
trade wars have been frequent. Because
of this and taxation and other forms of
Government interference, the earning
power of capital has been both reduced
and rendered uncertain. For the five
years to the close of accounts in 1929,
£170,000 of fresh capital was gathered,
divs. averaged 12 p.c. and profits 17.8
p.c. on average capital. Slump and a
price war followed, and the div. dropped
to 2 p.c. in 1930. At the end of 1932
those in the trade agreed to bury the
hatchet, and the co. extended its activi-
ties by formation of a new subsidiary,
Southern Cross Flour Mills, and pur-
chase of Hunter’s old-established bakery
at North Sydney. Earnings responded,
and 6 p.c. was distributed in ’33 and ’34.
For most of the following year bread
was sold at little or no profit, because
the State Government fixed a maximum
price for the. loaf, preventing the Federal
flour tax from being passed on, and the
div. dropped to 2\ p.c. again.
However, with cessation of Govern-
ment price-fixing—always a dangerous
experiment—-and removal of the Federal
flour tax, the bread section of the busi-
ness was restored to a profitable basis
again early in the last term, and the
co.’s Pacific Island business (it owns the
shares, or all but a handful of them, in
Hardman Bros., Ltd.) continued to im-
prove. So, despite the rise in the price
of wheat, last year’s net earnings sprang
£10,864, reaching 6.6 p.c. on capital, and
the div. was lifted to 6 p.c. That was
after setting aside £4624 (up £1737) for
the taxgatherer. Also, earnings include
the co.’s proportion of undistributed
profits of the subsidiaries; so the net
result is not understated. Goodwill and
trade-marks, disclosed for the first time,
together figure at £46,815, leaving £31,350
of the capital unrepresented by tan-
gibles when the books closed.
Movements in balance-sheet figures re-
flect further expansion of the business:
1925. 1931. 1935. 1936.
Paid capital. . £BB,OOO £250,000 £300,000 £300,000
Liabilities .. 1,032 16,804 42,843 52,170
Land and]
buildings ! 84,095* 251,783* 317,214* l 77,688
Investments J L 171,265
Plant etc. .. 1,534 9,134 22,990 24,683
Stocks .. 2,217 6,896 11,370 25,069
Rook debts . . 7,210 11,033 13,49 S 63,862
Cash, etc. .. 7,311 6,173 799 3,512
* Includes goodwill and trade-marks.
To carry an extra £50,364 of debtors’
balances and add £13,699 to the stocks
item, the co. increased its overdraft
(£30,640) by £10,648, tacked £5002 on
to the amount coming to sundry creditors
(£27,853), went to some of the sub-
sidiaries for £23,677, and reduced
fixed assets and investments by £21,446.
Investments consist of shares in sub-
sidiaries (£125,866) and in other cos.
(£45,399). Excluding the holding in sub-
sidiaries but not that in other cos., more
or less liquids exceeded liabilities by
£55,672, when the books closed.
As for the current term, the continued
rise in the price of wheat has reduced
the margin of profit from bread, and, if
the Federal Government’s marketing pro-
posals are carried at next month’s refer-
endum, it is proposed to fix a home-
consumption price for wheat, which
would not differ in effect from a flour
tax so far as bakeries are concerned.
The market therefore prices the fully-
paid pound shares at 175., at which
figure, the return is 7 p.c. on a 6 p.c. div.
basis. Subject to any goodwill there may
be in the subsidiaries, the cover is
17s. lid. in net tangibles.
Australian Stock Breeders
. Dividends To Re-
Nov., Loss. Pref. Ord. serves. Deficit.
1926. . 29,152 Nil Nil 24,921
1927.. 31,370 Nil Nil 56,291
1928.. 1,778 Nil Nil -- 58,069
1929.. 5,089 Nil Nil 63.158
1930.. 3,499 Nil Nil 66,657
1931.. 8,865 Nil Nil 75,522
1932.. 143,585 t Nil Nil —219,107
Loss on sale property, £4125 .. 223,232
Accrued pref. divs., £68,597 .. 291.829
1933.. 7,202 Nil Nil 299,031
Accrued pref. divs., £B5BO .. 307,611
1934.. 1,967 Nil Nil 309,578
Accrued pref. divs., £B5BO .. 318.158
1935. . 7,601 Nil Nil 325,759
Accrued pref. divs., £B5BO .. 334,339
Profit.
1936.. 16,537 Nil Nil 16,537 317,802
'Two years, flncludes writing-down of properties, etc.
That table is a forbidding spectacle to
the investor seeking safety of capital
and regular returns on his money. For
the first time since 1925 the co. has bal-
anced on the right side. Ever since
Europe turned to baby beef from S.
America, the story of the runowner —
this one took over the old Q.M.E.’s
cattle business in 1915 —in the far west
and nor’-west of Queensland, where rains
are uncertain and beasts slow-maturing,
has been one of lost markets, falling
prices and rigid costs. Including
accrued pref. divs. and the writing down
of properties, which was mainly respon-
sible for the big loss in 1932, this co.’s
losses totalled £329,990 for the decade
to the close of accounts in 1935.
Last year prices for both wool and
meat strengthened, a good season enabled
more cattle to be turned off the. runs,
and at Tarbrax, the sheep property,
Nature was kind, too. After striking off
£2360 for depreciation, there was a
profit of £16,537. Leaving accrued divs.
(£94,336) out of the reckoning, this re-
duced the deficit on shareholders’ ac-
count to £223,466 ; so all the £218,330
of ord. capital and £5136 of the pref.
money were unrepresented by tangibles
in the books at Nov. 30.
Balance-sheet figures show the follow-
ing position:—•
1931. 1933. 1935. 193 G.
Capital .. £325,579 £325,579 £325,579 £325,579
Creditors .. 22 2,67 3 2 75,565* 269,886* 265,952*
Property,
plant and
livestock . . 466,004 291,629 265,031 268,168
Stores, etc... 2,358 3,623 1,447 1,150
Debtors, cash,
etc. . . 4,367 6,861 3,228 4,412
* Includes accrued pref. divs., £68,597, 1933;
£85,756, 1935; £94,336, 1936.
The year’s profit was used mainly to
reduce the overdraft (now £80,366) by
£13,263. The amount coming to sundry
creditors (£91,250) increased by £749.
When the books closed, the cover (book
value) for the overdraft was 68s. Id. in
the pound, and for the whole of the
outside debt 31s. lid. in the pound.
What the future holds for the busi-
ness it is difficult to say. The Tarbrax
lease has been renewed for 30 years,
and the immediate outlook for both
seasons and prices is satisfactory. On
the market buyers offer 3s. and sellers
ask ss. for the fully-paid pound prets.,
which appear to have little prospect of
collecting dividend arrears.
Robert Reid and Co., Ltd.
f Dividends \
f —Pref.—\
July, Profit. 7 p.c. 8 p.c. Ordinary. Reserves.
£ £ £ £ &
1926.. 41,780 14,000 20,000 5 p.c. =30,452 144,970
1927.. 66,453 14,000 20,000 5 „ „ 30,452 146,9 a
1928.. 64,240 14,000 20,000 5 „ „ 30,452 146.70»
1929.. 44,673 14,000 20,000 5 „ „ 30,452 126,980
June.
1930*. 30,577 13,272 18,972 Nil 1 20 - 31 J
Loss. _ .»n
1931.. 88,845 14,000 15,000 Nil ". 48S
Deficit.
1932.. 72,731 Nil Nil Nil 65,266
Profit. rQ „
1933.. 1,670 Nil Nil Nil 6,5 > 65,i
Reserve-.
Ordinary capital written off, £152,258 f
Legal exes., £1264 .. •• •• n ,
Unexplained reduction, £30,000 ..
5 p.c. 6 p.c.
1934.. 14,478 5,000 10,625 Nil
1935.. 11,812 5,000 11,250 Nil
1936.. 23,397 5,000 11,250 Nil
*ll months 12 days.
Slump, exchange and the tariff put the
finishing touches to a gradually changing
outlook for the softgoods wholesaler.
Robert Reid and Co. trimmed its sai.s


IYSAGHTS
Galvanized Iron
That is just one of the pleasant
surprises that accompany the use of
Lysaght's Galvanized Iron. Besides
being the cheapest and most efficient
form of roofing and walling, in all
weather it is convenient and comfort-
able. It cools immediately the sun
leaves it, in contrast to other roofing
and walling materials which will
often retain the heat for hours after
sunset-in heavy rains nothing is as
satisfactory as Lysaght’s Galvanized
Iron, which ensures a perfectly water-
proof roof.
You can trust all
brands of Lysaght's
Galvanized Iron
to the uttermost. They
are all manufactured
at the Newcastle
works of John
Lysaght (Aust.) Ltd.
from only the finest
raw materials the
production is backed
by nearly 80 years
experience. All
brands are of a
quality which cannot
be bettered in the
world to-day.
JOHN LYSAGHT CAust3 LTD
Sydney . . Melbourne . . Brisbane . . Adelaide . . Perth
QUALITY STEELWARE FOR
Baker’s 4-blade Stag-
haft Stock Knife. .. .
10/6
STATION USE
If3ooo Mh f,
i iip-
Baker’s Studlock (Regd.) Sheep
Ear Labels,
15/- per 100.
(Includes Numbering.)
11 ' jO I 1 1 1 i
<sW^\ u T° r ~<» CA 2
Hypodermic Syringe for Farm Use. “t VZ/CZ Postage,
20cc. with one needle * w 9d. extra.
Flower Secateur—will cut
hold stem of any flower . .
o
'
D
13/6
ana
W. JNO. BAKER Ltd
3 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY,
For the best Cutlery since 1888.
“NO” CAMPAIGN ASSOCIATION,
Temple Court.
REFERENDUM
VOTE NO
The referendum of March 6, 1937, Is a very important one.
Voters should know its dangers and how to avoid them.
A “YES” vote will mean further Government interference in
business. This interference has already gone too far.
A “YES” vote will mean a rise in prices of the products involved
—such as butter, cheese, dried fruits, bread, fresh fruits, vegetables,
milk, eggs, bacon, etc.
A “YES” vote will mean more boards. Boards cost money,
boards make regulations and often they make expensive mistakes.
For these you will have to pay.
A “YES” vote will mean a lowering of your standard of living.
Do you want this?
A “YES” vote will mean all kinds of interference with production
and the distribution of products.
A “YES” vote will revive the old “border barbarisms”—customs
houses and officers at the border towns and river crossings.
A “YES” vote will not relieve the producer of the excessive costs
caused by heavy customs duties.
You will avoid these dangers and others by voting NO thus:
YES
NO
WM. F. GATES,
“NO” Campaign Association, Temple Court, Collins St., Melbourne.
2
I
SAVE TIME and MONEY IN
PLOUGHING . . .
«*h a FORDSON
14 H.P. AT DRAWBAR - 26 H.P. ON BELT
(Tests by Mr. E. J. C. Rennie, Melb. University)
FORDSON IS POUNDS UNDER THE PRICE OF
ANY OTHER TRACTOR OF EQUIVALENT POWER
COUNTER.BALANCED CRANKSHAFT .... HEAVY-DUTY
TRANSMISSION . . . GOVERNOR CONTROL . . . SPECIAL
AIR CLEANING SYSTEM . . . CRANKCASE VENTILATION . ..
“HOT-SPOT” VAPORISER . . . CLUTCH PULLEY.. . POWER
TAKE-OFF (optional at extra cost).
The English Fordson is the lowest-priced tractor per horse-power
on the market. It saves time and money on every job—ploughing,
harvesting, haulage or stationary work. Fordson is available
with pneumatic tyres or approved wheel grips. Your local Ford
dealer will explain the easy purchase
terms provided by the special Fordson
iyyyygfl finance plan.
m
Fordson
Tractor
ASK YOUR FORD DEALER TO DEMONSTRATE
DISTRIBUTORS:
New South Wales:
MOTOR TRACTORS
LTD., Corner Bridge &
Young Streets, Sydney
Queensland:
BUZACOTTS (.QUEENSLAND)
LIMITED
443 Adelaide Street, Brisbane
Victoria &. Tasmania:
MALCOLM MOORE
Ltd., City Shrms.: 601-3
Lit. Collins Street> Melb.
South Aust.t POWER PLANT LTD.,
98-100 Currie Street. Adelaide
Western Australia: LYNAS MOTORS
LTD.. Hay Street, Perth
FORD MOTOR COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD. (Incorporated m Vic.) F62.16.T j
DESIGNED AND BUILT AT q/VGENHAM, ENGLAND
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
to the altered trade winds by working
down stocks and book debts, thus en-
abling the overdraft to be reduced, the
debenture debt (£150,000, held in Lon-
don) to be repaid, and £162,500 of pref-
erence capital to be returned. Also,
ss. per share (£152,258) was lopped off
the ords., and the pref. divs. were re-
duced to 5 p.c. firsts and 6 p.c. seconds,
with the right' to advance to their original
rates (7 p.c. and 8 p.c. respectively) with
the ords., after the latter have had 6 p.c.
Arrears of pref. divs. were paid mostly
at half the new rates, the amount
(£30,000) being charged direct against
reserves.
Last year net earnings sprang £11,585,
reaching £23,397, the best since 1930, but
still a long way short of the average
(£69,775) for the five years to the close
of accounts in 1928. After paying the
pref. divs. (together £16,250) and allocat-
ing 10 p.c. (£715) of the remainder of
the year’s profit to a preference-dividend
reserve, the £6432 that was left was 1.4
p.c. on ord. capital. For the seventh
year in succession no div. was paid.
Balance-sheet figures compare as fol-
lows :
IQoq looi ino r iqqa
Ord. capital.. £609,035 £456,777 £456,777 £456,777
Pref. capital.. 450,000 287,500 287,500 287,500
Mortgages .. 77,107 77,149 77,126 107,140
Overdrafts, etc. 87,946 91,386 79,247 89,783
Creditors .. 123,536 131,525 121,302 105,296
Properties .. 239,030 238,797 238,289 287,843
Plant, etc. .. 21,279 18,929 15,938 14,763
Stocks. . .. 416,689 406,139 396,106 397,188
Book debts .. 367,389 332,164 339,091 313,269
I n v estments,
cash, etc. .. 296,882 161,327 140,449 148,578
Last year’s growth of £49,554 in the
book value of properties is due to pur-
chase of part of the co.’s Sydney premises
in terms of a lease entered into in 1912.
To meet the outlay and reduce the
amount coming to sundry creditors by
£16,006, the board added £30,014 on
to mortgages, went to its bankers for an
extra £10,536 and reduced debtors’
balances by £25,822. The contraction in
(i Continued on next page.)


A SURE FRIEND IN UNCERTAIN TIMES
HI
■
A Prudent wife is
GREAT RICHES
THE wife who has understanding and wisdom will
see that her man is a member of the A.M.P., and
she will urge him to be adequately assured.
Having the seeing eye and the hearing ear (as well
as children to protect), she will understand that while a
little Life Assurance is a Good Thing, Adequate Assur-
ance is better. She will have her husband tot up the
value of his A.M.P. policies, and the income they
would bring if invested, and then see that he ADD to
them for his peace of mind as well as hers. From time
to time, as he goes off in the morning, she will say to
him: “Don’t forget to see the A.M.P.’
A certain member of the Society (who said,
recently, that his wife was responsible for the excellent
arrangement of his policies) took out his first policy
when he was 18 years of age. Others followed at 20,
22, 24, 26 (when he was married), 28 (for his first-
born), 30 (for his second-born, a daughter), and at 36,
which was last year. Neither he nor his wife needs to
worry about their financial future. It is as secure as
the A.M.P. itself.
If YOU lack peace of mind in this matter, write or
’phone the nearest A.M.P. office before the day is out.
Don’t delay. Even to-morrow may be too late.
AMP. SOCIETY
The Largest Mutual Life Office in the Empire.
C. A. ELLIOTT, F.1.A., A. W. SNEDDON. F.1.A.,
Actuary. general Manager.
C. M. MARTIN,
Secretary and Chief Inspector.
D. E. WALKER,
Manager for New South Wales.
HEAD OFFICE: 87 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Branch Offices at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth and
Hobart.
District Offices throughout all States.
New Zealand Branch Office: Customhouse Quay, Wellington.
PATENTS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sidney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents. AD
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON. Patent Attorneys 483
Collins Street. Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). Advt.
* * * *
AUSTRALASIAN timberlands and _ plantation
valuation surveys, milling plans, T So (late
shinments. L MACINTOSH ELLIS, B-Sc. (late
Director State Forest Service, New Zealand), Cods
ing Forest Engineer, 8 Bond Street, Sydney. Ad\ •
* * * * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lift'.
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament )•
hydraulic electric and general engmeers hft
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all clas.es oi
lFfts and other machinery. Colonial Mutual Life
Building, 14 Martin Place, Sydney. Advt.
•j* $
Wasted heat costs you money l Haye all l f ller j
and steam pipes “lagged” by William Adams and
Company, Limited 175 Clarence:
Quotations given for materials or d Gene ral
Write for your free copy of our
Catalogue. — Advt.
* * *
Buyer of TANTALITE and aH cW ores, coir-
centrates, metals, LOUIS' BLRRAKU,,
Street, Sydney. Telegram address, bulk
—Advt.
the more or less liquid surplus (£556,816)
was £41,155.
As for the future of the business, the
chairman says: “Combination of output
from growing secondary industries pro-
vides a means of overcoming the com-
plexities of distribution over wide areas
and the time is far distant when the
services of the modern wholesale house,
using efficient methods for propagation
of trade, will be outdated.”
The market, doubtful when the prefs.’
participating rights are likely to be worth
anything, prices the firsts at 17s. 6d. and
the seconds at 16s. 6d. The return at
these figures is 5.7 p.c. and 7.2 p.c. re-
spectively. Last year’s net earnings over
44 times covered the firsts’ minimum
annual requirements, after allowing for
which the seconds could see over 14
times the amount their 6 p.c. div. called
for. The net tangible cover is £8 os. 7d.
firsts, £3 15s. 2d. seconds and 225. Bd.
ords. The ords., which are not listed,
will receive an interim at the rate of 24
p.c. p.a. on March 1.
Tongkah Harbor Tin
Since it was formed in 1906 by Capt.
E. T. Miles and Henry Jones, this
pioneer of Australian-controlled Malayan
tin-dredging cos. has won 24,746 tons of
t. 0., worth £3,037,404, of which share-
holders got £681,252 (88s. per share) in
dividends. As the old concessions,
which embraced the whole of Tongkah
Harbor, Siam, were worked out new
areas were acquired, and a period of
difficulty, beginning in 1926, followed.
The co. got on to a dividend-paying basis
again in 1934, and, with things as they
are, prospects are encouraging. Finan-
cial results over the last five years com-
pare as follows:
Dividend— *
Per
Sept., Revenue. Exes.* Profit. Loss. Share. Amt.
1932.. 38,974 55,346 16,372 Nil Nil
1933.. 48,941 45,621 3,320 Nil Nil
1934.. 93*281 73,105 20,176 —1- 14,189
1935.. 93,558 75,302 18,256 —2- 28,820
1936. .159,927 142,587 17,340 Nil Nil
*lncludes allowance for depreciation, etc.
The jump in last year’s earnings and exes,
was due mainly to operation of the
Ronpibon property, bought from South-
ern Siamese Tin for £132,000 in f.-p.
shares early in the term. Exes, include
£26,704 (up £9030) struck off for depre-
ciation. Owing partly to this and partly
to increased operating costs, the profit
claimed was 6.7 d. lighter at 10.8 d. per
share. No div. was paid during the term,
but Is. a share (£24,770) has been sent
out since the close of accounts.
Dredging performances and the aver-
age price of tin ore compare as follows:
1934. 1935. 1936.
Cubic yards .. 3,305,000 3,273,000 5,110,800
Tin oxide, tons 657.5 GSO.S 962.9
Av. per yard,
pound .. .44 .44 .4-
Cost per c.y.,
pence .. 3.5 S 3.46 4.79
Average price tin
ore.. .. £l4l/17/5 £143/15/2 £154/0/9
Of the co.’s seven dredges, four —Tong-
kah Harbor, Bang Neang, Ronpibon and
Bidor—were in operation as against
three for the previous term. Dredges
Nos. 2 (Bidor), 4 (Tongkah Harbor Con-
cession) and 6 (Chelong Bay) remained
idle. The co.’s various holdings in Siam
aggregate over 6000 acres. The Bidor
property, in the F.M.S., is approximately
575 acres, and options are held over
additional ground as well. Until the
boring programme, now in progress, is
complete, the total yardage and average
value of dredgeable ground available will
not be known. Finances are comfort-
able. At Sept. 30 last the debenture
debt (£40,000) and £11,217 coming to
sundry creditors was covered by more or
less liquids totalling £81,049, excluding
stores (£44,758).
The increase in the allowable produc-
tion this year and the lift in the price
of the metal favor a better showing at
next balance. At 245. the fully-paid 255.
shares are worth consideration as a hold-
ing proposition.
At Chewton (Vic.) Wattle Gully has
what is probably the best mine in the
State at the moment. To date the 7056
tons treated, mainly development stone
—little stoping has been done —have
yielded gold worth £36,538, an average
of 12.3dwt. The big lode at the 575 ft.
level, which continues in the shaft for
100 ft., has been driven on in payable
values for 376 ft. On the new 655 ft.
level, where the west crosscut has pene-
trated the formation adjoining the main
lode for 76ft., the reef has been proved
by driving for 337 ft., and continues
at both ends. Until crosscuts have
been put out north and south of
the present drives and blocking out of
the lodes undertaken, there can be no
definite estimate of tonnage available.
The main reef is of the fissure type, and
a quantity of probable ore is looked
for under the displaced portion of the
lodes below the 655 ft. level. Here
a winze is being sunk from the
west crosscut to locate continuation
of the lodes, while the shaft is to be
deepened to develop the lodes at depth.
The northern and southern extensions
of the lode, are also to be explored. To
do all this, £5OO is to be set aside each
month until a reserve of £lO,OOO is
built up. The co. recently installed its
own 20-head battery, capable of hand-
ling 1000-1200 tons a month. The an-
nouncement that on Feb. 26 shareholders
were to get another 2s. (Is. labelled
bonus) a share, calling for £6OOO and
making the amount so distributed
£12,000, has lifted the 9s. 3d.-paids to
around 60s. on ’Change.
* * * *
Having taken an option until Dec. 15
next over a Papuan property favorably
reported on by M. P. Curtain —purchase
consideration is a 13 p.c. interest in any
operating co. formed, plus £5OO cash
from first gold won —Aurum Gold
Dredging is offering those on the register
on March 1 300 £5 shares, one for
three, on which it is calling up £2.
The issue has been underwritten by
Adelong Gold Estates. Since disposing
of its Ovens River (Vic.) property to
Bright Valley Gold Estates, Aurum has
been trying to pick a winner among
Bendigo alluvial areas. At present a
proposition at Long Gully, Eaglehawk,
is being worked, but values are lower
than anticipated, and the small portable
plant is incapable of handling sufficient
yardage to make things worth while.
Under the terms of its agreement with
Bright Valley Estates, Aurum is to
receive £5OO from first gold won and
one-third of net earnings after the
former’s shareholders have had a shilling
a year.
sjc # ❖
With tin now around £240 a ton in
London, Mt. Bischoff, Waratah (Tas.),
should be able to treat more ore at
a profit. There’s a large low-grade
body, oxidised and free from pyrite, in
the Khaki workings. At Mt. Cleveland
the lode, full width undetermined, is
15ft. to 25ft. wide in the opencut, and
at Hall’s Dyke, proved by trenching for
500 ft. south of No. 1 crosscut, a large
tonnage of ore is expected to be opened
up above No. 1 level. Shaft-sinking in
the l£lb. wash south-west of the battery
has proved that area too small to warrant
installation of plant. For the 12 months
to December 31 last the co. crushed
16.854 tons crude ore and re-treated 8850
tons tailings for 2504 tons tin concen-
trates, averaging 68.1 p.c. tin, besides
sluicing 9200 c.y. of alluvial for 21.8
tons t. 0., averaging 64.3 p.c. tin. Owing
to the low average price of the metal
and water shortage, which interfered
with the operations of tributors, the net
result slipped from £7908 to £3187, before
providing for taxes. At balance date
liquids totalled £22,778 ; there was £4019
coming to outsiders.
* * * sje
Mount Morgan’s departure front the
orthodox by calling tenders from share-
holders for 120,000 new ss. shares has
been very successful. Offers were re-
ceived for the purchase of 417,216 shares
at various prices. Those from 15s. ll|d.
to 17s. 6d. were accepted in full, and
portion of those at 15s. 9d. were suc-
cessful. The average price realised was
16s. per share. On the market the
scrip is fetching 17s. 2d. or thereabouts.
The outstanding feature was the low cost
of the issue, £46 Bs. 4d., or less than
one-tenth of a penny per share. The
new oxidised-ore treatment plant (capa-
city 800 tons per day) is now in full
swing, and is reported to be working
“very satisfactorily.”
* # *
Some of the old Northern Territory
goldfields may be given a new lease of
life. Anglo-Queensland Mining Pty.,
representing overseas interests, has taken
options and commenced sampling on the
Howley field, near Brock’s Creek, about
100 miles from Darwin. It is a low-
grade area, originally worked by
Chinese.
>!= * * *
The old Kalgoorlie Golden Mile
brigade, and Sons of Gwalia beyond,
kept their ends up well in January. Gt.
Boulder’s production was worth £37,668 ;
working profit was £14,500 ; capital ex-
penditure (new treatment plant and
special development), £19,324. Boulder
Perseverance showed a profit of £13,217 2
after setting aside £2858 for develop-
ment and boring.. Output was valued
at £30,247. Working profits for the past
six months aggregate over £BO,OOO, but
depreciation, London exes., etc., have to
come off this. North Kalgurli’s yield
of £35,233 was a record, and so was the
working profit of over £20,000. Capital
outlay was £3lOl. On present returns
divs. totalling 10 p.c. p.a. should easily
be maintained. Lake View’s monthly
surplus, which has not fallen below
£44,000 for over a year, was £48,429
in January. This does not take into
account special expenditure totalling
£10,240 on plant, development, etc., or
directors’ percentage of profit. For
the last half of 1936 the co. treated
294.854 tons ore and 356,494 tons tail-
ings. The lot was worth £667,636;
working exes, took £386,583, leaving a
working profit of £281,053, of which
£51,804 was spent on capital account.
South Kalgurli’s profit of £4161 was the
best for some months. The co.’s lease
of Croesus Prop, from North Kalgurli,
which has been its second string for
nearly 10 years, expires in about two
months. After that all ore will be drawn
from the South Kalgurli and Hainauit
blocks. Sons of Gwalia’s output was
valued at £33,000. After deducting
working costs (£16,314) and development
outlay (£2955), the surplus was approxi-
mately £13,600. The mine has so far
been worked to a depth of 4500 ft. oi
thereabouts on a steep underlay, and
sinking below that depth is in progress.
A new vertical shaft may have to be
considered before long. This work, with
equipment, would entail six-figure ex-
penditure.


SMOKE-OH!
Flapper’s Petition.
Ah, kiss me once, my sweet, and then
depart
From my young life fore’er, lest 100
much bliss
Destroy my soul and overwhelm my
heart.
Just hold me in your arms and take
one kiss
And breathe one word of love into my
ear
That I’ll remember in the years
ensuing , . .
And when you’ve gone I’ll pray for
someone, dear,
Who’ll mix a bit more ardor with his
wooing !
Miss Smith.
•2* *2* »2* *2*
“It is now widely accepted that sunspots
cause interference with broadcasts.”
But isn’t it just as likely that it’s the
broadcasts that cause the sunspots?
*2* *2* 4* 4*
“Take away the costumes and dresses of a
modern revue, and what have you?” asks a
critic.
About 7oz.
•2* 4* *2* 4*
“Rooms to Match Your Hair.”
—Melbourne “Herald.”
The usual thing, of course, is hair to
match rooms.
*2* *2* 4*
‘A carpenter by trade, he earns good money,
but each Friday he wastes both time and money
in the hotels.”
Counter-sinking his screw.
*2* 4* *2* *2*
“Bread 3000 years old was recently taken
from a buried oven in Egypt.”
So that’s where our landlady is getting
the stuff!
•J*
At the Zoo.
‘The British Empire Society will entertain
Coronation delegates with a luncheon and a
day out at the London Zoo.”
The Zoo authorities should be warned,
otherwise they are going to have a laugh-
ing hyena with split sides.
The roo will probably take one look
at Archdale and his spats and decide to
become more English than the English—
perhaps even as English as Mr. Bruce.
Jumbo, staggering beneath an over-
load of Australian politician, will doubt-
less decide to put on a sit-down strike,
remarking, “If these boys think I’m a
damn’ Aussie taxpayer, they’ve slipped! ”
The monkeys will have a very sub-
dued day, fatalistically resigned to the
knowledge that their visitors could show
them more tricks in an hour than they've
ever known.
As a gesture of understanding, their
English hosts will no doubt tactfully
steer the party clear of the chameleon.
When everybody is ready for home,
Mr. Lyons will almost certainly be dis-
covered locked in the koala’s cage, the
keeper remonstrating, “Blime, ’ow was I
to know?”
D. McM.
•2* *2* *2* *2*
“She was a decided blonde.” — Novelette.
Doubtless decided after reading about
gentlemen preferring them.
•J* *4*
All too often a woman is a thing of
beauty and a jaw for ever.
*2* *2* *2* »2*
“In those days the guards outside the King’s
chamber were always knights in mail.”
— Woman’s paper.
Posted at the door, of course.
*2* *r *2- *2*
Idyll.
They walked down the lane together,
The sky was covered with stars;
They reached the gate in silence,
He opened for her the bars;
But she spoke not a word nor thanked
him,
Because she knew not how —
For he was only a cocky’s boy,
And she was a Jersey cow.
Jay.
■F -2* .j. .j.
“Chemists are generally very unemotional,”
says a P.M.
Of course. They bottle everything up.
“When women are in doubt as to whether to
say a thing or not to their husbands, they leave
it unsaid.”
Women can’t often be in doubt.
*2* *2* *2* *2*
Even in prehistoric times cavemen
were all highly-respected clubmen.
•J*
For a Snappier Test.
With the object of creating greater
interest' in the last Test, O’Cohen’s
Sporting Tips (N.L.) have decided to give
special prizes for records created during
the match. In the event of each team
scoring the same number of runs
£lO,OOO will be divided between them.
The two lottery tickets will be held in
trust by the. Archbishop of Melbourne,
who will also present our silver-mounted
ash can to the victors in the event of a
win by an innings and 700 runs.
Players on both sides are sure to try
their hardest for any or all of the fol-
lowing awards: Every window broken
outside ground, £5, less 85 p.c. for re-
placements ; most maidenly over of the
match, 10s. and a bunch of lavender;
missed catches, 2s. 6d. each, with a
butterflv-net added for the hat trick;
“Gel rid of this woman—shes been spreading nudist propaganda .”
£lOO to player making lowest score, with
proviso that in event of a tie winners
divide a lottery ticket instead.
Spectators are included in our offer.
For the handsomest piece of knitting,
medium-paced or googly, turned out by
a lady during the Test, we will give
a month’s free subscription to our race
code special. A similar prize goes to the
boy under 14 who gathers the most
empties and the girl, any age or weight,
adjudged by the umpires to be wearing
the most sensational pair of shorts.
And we’re not leaving the boys of the
press and microphone out of it. There’s
a free doubles tip for the Doncaster and
Cup for the most lurid essay on the mis-
takes of the. opposing captains and the
most melodramatic ball-to-ball descrip-
tion. All words in, no similes barred. If
you write and broadcast, go for both,
because if you win both you’ll have two
different tips.
Angus O’Cohen.
•2* 4* *2* *2*
“It takes a practised Italian to eat spaghetti
with gusto.”— “Sun.”
Yet you often see novices wrapped up
in it.
•2* 4* *2* 4*
“Undoubtedly steps should be taken to ade-
quately cover all old mining shafts.”
— “S. M. Herald."
The Wild Cat agrees that too many
people have fallen in already.
Purely Dramatic.
The poet sang in sounding lines
Of revelry and reckless nights,
Of lavish loves and wondrous wines,
Heroic feasts and mighty fights.
But all such revelry he banned
With “No, I never feast or drink,
Or fight or love. Please understand
I've verse to write! I’ll go, I think.”
Norman Ltlley.
•2* *2* *l* *2*
When Beauty Was Cheap.
“It is estimated that for £2 14s. a month a
woman can be made as attractive as ordinary
artificial aids can make her.”
Dearie me, beauty has got expensive
since I was a girl! Of course, sandsoap
costs more than it used to, and then
girls pay for a lot of things that weren’t
considered ladylike in my time. Plucked
eyebrows, for instance, were always a
sign that you’d mixed it with a stronger-
minded female than yourself.
Hair-trimming costs a lot of money
now ; we used to do it by cutting our
tresses for the beaus to make watch
guards of, and any girl who had to pay
for a hair-trim was obviously a wall-
flower.
As for face-lifting—well, when I was
gadding about one got that only for
arguing over the housekeeping money,
and as beefsteak was only twopence a
pound the treatment was cheap.
Keeping our figures was the main
worry in those days, and many a time
Father had to spend a couple of days
out after a whale so that we could give
our corsets a retread.
Aggie McWhoosh.
“There’s fighting fish on the Barrier Reef.”
—Angling news.
It takes a hook to the jaw to out them.
Some Little-known Facts About
Egypt.
I.—General Knowledge.
Egypt is a large stretch of mosques,
monuments and priceless tombs sur-
rounded by several thousand square
miles of burning sands. Indeed, it is a
source of perpetual wonder to the simple
inhabitants that the sands have never
gone out, despite having been burning
continuously since the days of the
Pharaohs.
It was not until this century, however,
that the important discovery was made
by Ethel M. Dell that the sands burn
fiercely. Nature has chiefly arranged
this so that sheiks who wander in from
surrounding deserts looking for suitable
English flapper tourists will have a con-
tinuous supply of fuel for their burning
love, so essential to romantic desert
novels.
Chief industries are baksheesh-asking,
tomb-excavating, pyramid-gazing, felucca-
sinking, flea-fly-and-sun-dodging and
swearing at donks and camels.
Egyptians—or, more correctly, Gyppos
—speak in hieroglyphics, a language de-
rived from the Copts and improved upon
by the Cockneys. Conversation is car-
ried on in phrases such as “Orengis
toofawon vereeeweet vereegood,” “Eggs-
acook breadafresh, Meestamackenzie,”
and “Youblettigoodcoway.” Unless a
Gyppo is dressed in a light calico tent
and a fez and has a space of at least
four square yards for emphasising,
speech is impossible.
The medium of exchange is called a
“disaster,” because it has a hole in it.
Thus Egypt has conformed to the stan-
dards of Western nations, all the cur-
rencies of which have holes in them.
The country is divided by the Nile
into two tracts. It was this feature which
led to its being occupied by the early
Gyppos, who, being deeply religious,
looked upon this as an omen.
All the work is done by the feilahin
o Fellah, Oxf. Fellow; in, i.e., the mud),
who sow the crops when, and if, the
Nile overflows its banks and deposits
the mud. Their method is highly scien-
tific. The feilahin sit on the banks of
the Lower Nile awaiting news from the
Upper Nile of the river’s rise. If the
courier gets out' of breath and the river
beats him to it Egypt is stiff for that
year and the feilahin go fishing until the
next flooding. But if the runner is fast
enough with the tidings the workers
immediately mark out with small stakes
the beds they propose to sow. When the
river comes down and deposits several
feet of mud over the stakes they put in
bigger ones and go to sleep fill the flood
subsides.
While the mud is still awash plough-
ing is done. Even though the bullocks
are fitted with large water-wings mor-
tality among them is high, after which
the mqd gets “higher.” The ploughs are
recovered later when the crops are being
dredged.
The seed (mangel-wurzel, prickly-pear,
horse-radish and climbing beans) is then
broadcast and trampled in by herds of
goats, which, however, are only used
where the mud is shallow. Where the
mud sa y> e iBht feet deep or more, the
* g ° atS ***** to °
The Nile is a typic a l example of the
great com P e nsatory force of beneficent
Mother Nature. Should the river fail
t o inundate, there will be a famine. But
this condition will invariably be remedied
the following year, when an extra large
floo d will make up for it, bringing with
j t a plague. ’ B h
When not working on the crops the
fellahin assist with the fishing. This they
do by standing up to their necks in
water when a large school of £/-
Watasize, a voracious fish which is a
cross between a flying gurnard and a
wirrah, is sighted. The fish bite the
fellahin and almost immediately after
float belly-side up, when they are
gathered in by landing-nets,
Water is so scarce in Egypt that
bathing is not indulged in. An agitation
some years ago to have water brought
by pipeline from the Nile raised such
a howl of protest from the masses that
it was dropped.
Dogs are outcast, Gyppos regarding
them as unclean. How the dogs regard
the Gyppos has not been disclosed,
S. W. K.


For SECURITY,
STABILITY, STRENGTH
yoR SECUftfTy
Spread Your Money
Spread Your Risk
Through FIRST AUSTRALIAN UNIT TRUST
you can do this over 20 “listed” Companies, with
maximum convenience and maximum safety, securing
at the same time a good return on your capital.
Custodian Trustees for investors in the Trust:
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OF CANTON, LTD.,
Union Building, Bond Street, Sydney.
Full particulars and free descriptive booklet obtainable
from the Managers of the Trust:
AUSTRALIAN FIXED TRUSTS PTY., LTD.,
8-14 BOJiD STREET, SYDNEY.
Telephone: 85294. Box 4028 V.V., G.P.O.
Established
1834.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND £4,300,000 0 0
(Used wholly in the business.)
RESERVE CAPITAL £4,739,012 10 0
DIRECTORS:
JAMES' ASHTON (Chairman) ; EDWARD R. KNOX; OWEN E. FRIEND,
SIR WM. VICARS, C.8.E.; ORWELL PHILLIPS.
Head Office: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
London Office: 18 Birchin Lane Lombard Street,.■w s Bank, Ltd.:
London Bankers: The Bank of England; Westminster Bank Limited, Barclay
National Provincial Bank, Ltd. . . ralia
~ i t t Af annfreT.
BUSINESS, ROBBERY, ETC.
Climbing Share Prices
It grows more difficult each month to
single out from the various State Stock
Exchange lists shares of proved merit
still showing a reasonable return, to the
investor. A couple of years ago it was
easy. But since then a number of things
have happened, chiefly :
(а) Business conditions have improved
greatly following increased export prices,
the benefit of which has not yet been de-
feated by rising costs. The sharemarket
was quick to appreciate this improvement.
(б) The first signs of recovery were fol-
lowed by a revival in confidence and spend-
ing almost as pronounced as the onset of
depression and loss of confidence.
(c) Public borrowing has been overdone,
each new loan meeting with increased dis-
approval from investors; therefore support
for Consols has been withdrawn in favor
of ordinary shares.
(d) As The Bulletin pointed out 18
months ago, when something of a panic
was on, industrial equities (ordinary shares)
offer the best avenue for investment in
the event of war-time inflation of prices.
This opinion was offered when there was
a sharp slump in such shares following the
outbreak of war in Abyssinia and inter- ’
national complications were feared.
The public no longer has recourse to
gold coin for capital protection purposes,
and, as values are now
measured in terms of
Treasury notes issued
by the Commonwealth
Bank, the measure of
share and other values
in terms of such
money in a crisis de-
pends as much on the
value, of the notes as
on the value of the
shares. Hence an in-
creasing inclination to
invest in company
shares representing
equities in actual
goods and property,
more especially, of
course, where the
activities of such cos.
are at present remu-
nerative, and where
the prosperity looks
like continuing.
The sharp recovery
from slump during
the past two years has
resulted in a specula-
tor's paradise. Share-
markets have been
buoyant, despite the.
tightness of money.
This state of affairs
can’t continue for
ever; but the firm
tone is likely to last longer if speculation
is not overdone.
Overseas cables for some time have
been alive with talk of war preparation.
Rearmament and industrial re-equipment
on a large scale are in no small measure
responsible for the big world absorption
of metals, wool and other commodities,
although ordinary domestic consumption
of necessities and luxuries has stepped up
also, particularly in Britain and U.S.A.
The stimulus in trade and employment
resulting from heavy outlay in buildings,
plant, electrification schemes, etc., is
often a passing phase ; booms of this
kind need careful watching, and if costs
and prices rise too quickly as a result
disastrous consequences sometimes
follow.
In the Commonwealth one of the
greatest dangers to the investor and to
the country would be the beginning of a
rising spiral of costs and internal prices,
each one defeating the other, but both
tending to cripple export industries. The
investor who wants to play safe at this
stage .should regard that background of
soaring share-prices over the past three
years as a warning that all such good
things must come to an end, and not as
a promise that the immediate past is
likely to be repeated in the future.
Returns of 3 p.c. or thereabouts on some
stocks at present distributing most of
their profits suggests that some false
hopes do exist.
Up to the present the prices of Austra-
lian manufactured goods have kept down
to a level little, above slump-time experi-
“A little raw meat once a day to keep ’im savage , an' you Wont
have a burgulur within ten miles!”
ence, and yet are profitable to their
makers. This has been a factor in our
recovery almost as important as the rise
in wool, wheat and metal prices. It is
a state of affairs that calls for every effort
to maintain.
When ordinary shares are selected on
this page, the immediate and probable
rate of return is the governing influence,
“Market popularity” is a secondary con-
sideration. While B.H. Prop, at present
returns only 3 p.c., it could comfortably
pay a higher div., and it has a large
amount of at present unproductive
capital that should come into the picture
later. Therefore, there is some justifica-
tion for a yield as low as 3 p.c. Still, that
does not suit some investors, and recent
suggestions here have been in v the better
4-5 p.c. class —Mauri Bros, ords., Berlei,
Yarra Falls, Edwards, Dunlop and
Cumberland Paper preferred ords.
It has been mentioned frequently
enough here that every yearly aver-
age rise of £1 sterling a ton in
copper means —while output remains
at 13,000 tons p.a. and costs at
last year’s level—l p.c. extra profit
p.a. on Mt. Lyell’s capital. In 1935-36
£4O 14s. Bd. sterling a ton was averaged
by the co., and, including investment
income, 12 p.c. was earned on capital.
With copper at £69 in London, present
rate of earning i 9 over 40 p.c. p.a. For
long an unpopular market stock, results
are fully justifying the attention given
to it on this page. Pointed out as the
cheapest base-metal share at 435. a fort-
night ago, strong buying support carried
quotes up to 51s. 6d. last week.
* * * : ! :
Returns on Cumberland Paper prefs.,
first, second and third, from assets of
quality identical with that of Australasian
Paper, give Cumberland Paper prefs.
(really preferred ords.) an intrinsic value
greater than that of Australasian Paper
ords. Yet Cumberland prefs. are as
much as 4s. below A.P. ords. on the
market. .During the' 10 years since the
two cos. merged their Kraft-paper and
cardboard businesses into Australian
Paper Manufacturers, Cumberland prefs.
of all varieties have , averaged 7.95 p.c.
p.a. in dividends, as against 6.77;?.p:c. in
the case of A.P. ords. : If the N.S.W.
Interest Reduction Act had been in force
during .all of the depression years, the
prefs.’ average would still have been the
better at' 7.23 p.c. In bad times, then,
Cumberland’s participating prefs. have a
clear advantage over A.P. ords. In
good times, when the prefs.’ participating
rights become valuable, the advantage of
A.P. ords. is very small—an all-round
10.5 p.c. div. could be paid by A.P. out
of a distribution from the working co.
that would enable Cumberland to hand
out 10 p.c. Last sale of A.P.’s partici-
pating prefs., incidentally, was made, in
the vicinity of 405., as against 325. to
335. for Cumberland prefs. All prefs. in
the two holding cos. possess the advan-
tages of ords., with a prior claim (6.2 p.c.
Cumberland, 8 p.c. A.P.) on the profits,
as well as on the assets.
* • •* *
In-Melbourne last'week:
Howard, Smith, Ltd., declared a final div.
of 2\ p.c., making 3f'p.c. for the year.
Emperor shares weakened to below 20s. fol-
lowing the sale of- about 5000 shares on Tuesday
and Wednesday. Loloma scrip was also easier
after announcement of the new share issue.
Wattle Gully scrip kept around 60s. fol-
lowing the declaration of a shilling div. and
a similar bonus, payable on February 26. This
will make 4s. a share distributed to date. “A
large tonnage of proved ore” was mentioned
at the annual meeting. Average values to date
have been. 12.3dwt.
Base-metal shares were in keen demand fol-
lowing increased metal prices. Mt. Lyell
was in most favor..
Bank shares were strongly bought, fully re-
flecting the rises which had taken place in
Sydney. Bank of New South Wales was
soughtt at above £37, and Commercial of
Sydney above £23. Melbourne banks were not
of so much interest.
Mauri Bros. Ords. Sound Buying.
Mauri Bros, and Thomson, Ltd.,
Sydney and other capitals, is prin-
cipal Australasian supplier of
Crown bottle seals, corks, aerated-
water and refrigeration equipment
for shops, bakers’, butchers’ and
hotelkeepers’ plant, and it sells
malt and some lines of groceries.
It has a large share-interest in
Australian Seal Pty., which makes
Crown seals, and it merged its
vinegar business into Champion
Vinegar Co. (Aust.) in the 1932
term. Its shareholdings in and
advances to subsidiary cos. figured
in the books at £241,193 last
balance day, the item having ex-
panded £lOO,OOO in five years.
These associated cos. don’t distri-
bute all their profits ; even so, in
1935-36 the parent showed 25.9 p.c.
on ord. capital and paid 15 p.c.
(10 p.c. div., 5 p.c. bonus). Interim
for the current term should come
along about the end of March.
Visible net tangible backing for the
ords., including specific reserves
(which appear much in excess of
requirements) is 365. 2d. a share.
Cash in hand (£88,756) last balance-
day more than covered all liabilities
(£46,846). There is £171,900 of
pref. capital, mostly carrying a
minimum of 6.975 p.c.; the lowest
rate of earning on the ords. during
the slump was 9.7 p.c. The ords.
at 735., cum whatever div. is
declared next month, are sound
buying, giving an immediate yield
of 4.1 p.c. Under the new N. S.
Wales Companies Act there should
be interesting disclosures re sub-
sidiary cos. in the next balance
sheet.


Quicker getaways . . . faster speeds
. . . instant stopping! The certain
grip of the broader, deeper " Checkskid ”
tread is safe for many more thousands of
miles. The safety of "Checkskid” Tyres
inspires confidence fit them and forget
them .... they’ll carry you through.
/i
CHANGE FOR
THE BETTER...fit
M. 76.30.36
Barnet Glass
Checkskid" tyres
C7Aerjoi!m%?Rack
• WITH MORE RUBBER
BROADER DEEPER TREAD
The Tyres with the Longest Non-Skid Life
Be well advised on Your
Shooting Problems by an
Acknowledged Expert!
m.
LIONEL BIBBY, famous rifle and
Revolver Shot and recognised authority
on Firearms and Ballistics , is attached
to Mick Simmons’ Shooting Depart-
ment staff. Write him for his expert
advice on any matter pertaining to
firearms and shooting.
The New
COOEY
RIFLES
Nade Within the Empire
Every Model thoroughly tested for
Safety, Accuracy and Reliability!
COOEY .23 CAE. —Bolt action, for
short, long-, or long-rifle cartridges,
walnut stock, pistol grip. Steel butt
plate. Adjustable rear and silver
bead front sights. Safety action. A
REAL RIFLE AT A MODERATE
PRICE. Length overall, 41 inches.
barrel. 24in. Weight, 4Jlb. 37/6
(Postage, 3/-; Other States, 3/6).
COOEY “MOHAWK”— .22 cal. single
shot, for short, long or long-rifle
cartridges. Barrel 27in. long; wal-
nut stock, pistol grip, steel butt
plate. Elevating rear and silver
bead front sights; length, 43lin.
Weight, 61b. A RIFLE THAT DE-
FIES ALL COMPETITION. SUP-
ERB QUALITY. Price .... 4Q j_
(Postage. 2/-; Other States, 3/6)
COOEY REPEATER— . 22 Cal. bolt
action, holds 12 short, 10 long or
long-rifle cartridges. Double safety
action; walnut stock, pistol grip,
steel butt plate. Adjustable rear
and bead front sights, length, 41in.
barrel, 24in. Weight, 441 b
Price
72/6
(Carriage Paid).
COOEY MODEL 35 REPEAT-
ER —.22 cal. Trombone action,
with loading capacity 12 short
10 long or long-rifle cartridges.
Tubular magazine. Barrel 24in.,
walnut stock and fore-end pis-
tol grip, steel butt plate.
Elevating rear sight; length,
41in. Barrel, ' 24in. Weight,
s!lb. A BEAUTIFUL RIFLE
AT A MODERATE PRICE,
Prl °e ’ 90 /-
(Carriage Paid)
Two High-grade
SHOT GUNS
3—HOLLIS’ “THE RELIABLE”
1.8. L. GUN, 12G., top lever, bar action,
n. steel barrels, both choke, rebounding
ks, cross bolt, snap fore-end, half-pistol
p, walnut stock. £l5/15/"
(Carriage Paid)
No. 9—CASHMORE D.8.8.L. GUN, 12G„
solid bar action, 32in. steel barrels, left
choke, extension rib, cross bolt, D. and E.
fore-end pistol grip. _ walnut £l4/10/“
stock; weight, about 71b
(Carriage Paid)
No. 15—MIDLAND GUN CO. “SPECIAL”
D.8.8.L. HAMMER GUN, 12G., top lever.
32in. barrels, right modified, left full, bar
locks, solid strikers, matted rib, nitro-
proof, pistol grip, cross bolt; chambered
for 2fin. cartridges; /IA /
weight, about 7flb 3Llu/1U/ _
(Carriage Paid)
<
The New " LIGHTNING
m;l
Super Charge
12-Gauge Cartridges,
21/- per 100.
2Jin. shell with a
2sin. load!
Game results are
assured with
“Lightning.”
SHOOTING CATALOGUE
Write for copy. Post Free.
MICK SIMMONS
ITD,,
HAYMARKET, SYDNEY and All Branches.
Exports £5,753,000 sterling better;
favorable balance only a £2,012,000 im-
provement: that is the story after six
months of increased wheat, metal and
meat prices, and two months of soaring
wool quotations. Comparisons are with
the first half of the 1935-36 export year.
In that term imports from overseas were
high enough, goodness knows ; this term,
with Japanese goods banned for nearly
the whole six months under review, there
was an opportunity to build up an extra
surplus against the £8,000,000 or so which
the Coronation is going to take out of
the country, even though Mr. Casey still
had to dip into the London stocking to
pay overseas interest. But the chance
wasn’t taken ; imports lifted £3,741,000,
and the total favorable balance was
£12,324,000 up to Dec. 31, against
£10,312,000. Half the wool clip has
gone away, and the banking position still
shows no sign of the much-awaited slack-
ening in credit tension.
* * * *
Boots are to be or are already from
124 p.c. to 17 p.c. dearer throughout the
Commonwealth ; in Sydney the price of
gas is up about 2d. per 1000 c.f. The
increased cost of hides, especially lining
leathers, is chiefly responsible for the
higher cost of footwear, though follow-
ing an increase in the bootmakers’ award
Id. to 7d. a pair has been added to the
labor cost of shoes. Increases in the
N.S.W. basic wage are said to be respon-
sible for the higher gas charges. It is
to be hoped that these changes are not
the forerunners of a mad circus with
prices chasing wages and other costs.
Cost of raw materials (such as leather)
based on world parity is one thing ; arbi-
trary increases in internal costs based on
expediency is another. The higher figures
climb, the further they have to fall. With
interest rates up and most raw materials
dearer some increases may be inevitable ;
but' above all things we must guard
against senseless inflation. The stability
in costs over the past few years has been
a big factor in business recovery.
* # *
The sluicing areas of Solomon Island
Gold (B. 17/2/’37) on the Sorvohio and
Tsarivonga rivers, Guadalcanal 1., 8.5.1.
Protectorate, have been declared a min-
ing area under the regulations of 1927.
The essential precedent to such action
by the Board of Administration is “dis-
covery of gold in such quantities as the
board considers may be payable.” The
main gamble in this concern seems to
be on the point of costs. It is an interest-
ing gold speculation.
* * * *
Next month a div. will be due from
Australian Knitting Mills, Ltd., manu-
facturers of “Golden Fleece” and other
brands of woollen underwear, and rayon
lines. Paid capital, since the 308,000
shares in Yarra Falls were transferred
direct to shareholders, has been £206,250
in 550,000 7s. 6d. shares, all but 10,000
of them ords. For some little time after
the Yarra Falls distribution A.K.M.
scrip could be picked up below par.
Last week it sold at 10s. Bd. in Mel-
bourne. Because of litigation exes.
(£12,023) and special outgo (£1154), both
non-recurring items, the 1935-36 net
profit was little more than the income
from shares in Yarra Falls, which the
co. no longer holds. To pay 8 p.c. on
capital the co. in 1936-37 would need to
earn more than £16,500 from its knitting
activities; to pay 10 p.c., more than
£20,625. Earning-power on a greater
scale than that has been shown both
before the depression and since. Net
tangible backing amounts to 14s. per
ord. share.
* * *
Rubber is the latest commodity to ex-
perience a setback on the price-ladder.
The drop has been slight, but represents
a not unwelcome check to the idea that
prices generally are in for a long period
of climbing still. There has been un-
usual activity in Australian-quoted
rubber concerns, starting with Koitaki;
then Port Swettenham and the Barnet-
Glass offshoots attracted buying orders.
* # * 4=
The Bulletin’s various buying depart-
ments hope that the next crop of young
salesmen who appear on the doorstep
will have been thoroughly coached ac-
cording to the principles laid down in
Norman W. Charge’s A Salesmaker
(Angus and Robertson ; 3s. 6d.). “Sell-
ing is Service! ” Charge, says. “Play the j
game for the love of it and not for the
monetary reward alone. And remember j
that the day of the go-getter has gone, !
and the day of the go-giver has arrived.” j
Some may venture that a percentage of j
C.T.A. members will regard this exhorta- j
tion as a Beautiful Thought and leave it!
at that; but from a buyer’s viewpoint,
which is the viewpoint, there is no doubt
that a lot of substance and wisdom is
embodied in Charge’s counsel, which ad-
vises the elimination of bluff and hum-
bug in selling, among other things. It is
pointed out that salesmanship is a suffi-
ciently highly-paid calling to justify close
study, and is not necessarily the last re-
sort of cast-off clerks and the like. A
little book with a lot of meat in it. j


FOR FLEMINGTON.
St. Leger: Limond Lad; next,
Peerage.
Essendon Stakes: Young Idea ;
next, Gold Rod.
Newmarket: Country Party, 1 ;
Pamelus, 2 ; Disalto, 3.
Sires’ Produce Stakes: Ajax;
next, Lochlee.
Brunswick Stakes: Viceroy ; next,
Iva.
FOR RANDWICK.
Novice Mile: Ramdin; next,
Brown Betty.
Randwick Stakes: King’s Head ;
next, Lough Neagh.
Denman Stakes: Silver Rose;
next, High Speech.
City Tatt.’s Cup: Mananui; next,
Fireman.
Club Welter: Lolorua; next,
Pavarti.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Gold Rod’s finish in the Caulfield
Futurity Stakes was undeniably brilliant.
E. J„ Watt’s colt went so fast over the
last 50 yards that he caught and passed
Pamelus, defeating him by half a length
after the Queenslander had seemed cer-
tain to score. But it' is very debatable
whether the best horse at the weights
won.
Several circumstances contributed to
an inconclusive result. Just before the
race started the wind chopped round
from north to south, and soaking—
though not actually heavy—rain began to
fall. Elliot, the rider of Pamelus, stated
that the reins slipped through his fingers
and he could not hold the favorite, who
raced to the front sooner than had been
intended.
Pamelus tore from third-last at the 51-
furlongs post to take charge three fur-
longs farther on. It was an eye-opening
burst' of speed, but unhappily proved
“too bright, too beautiful to last.” His-
lory repeated itself. In 1918 that lovely
mare Desert Gold headed for home with
an unconquerable air in the Futurity
Stakes, but Hugh Cairns, on Wedge, ob-
tained the last run and lowered her
colors sensationally.
For some unaccountable reason Gold
Rod, according to Maurice McCarten,
would not stretch out in his best style
at the three-furlongs post. This may
have won the race for George Price’s
candidate. With no trouble threatening
at the distance Pamelus began to slow
down and Gold Rod obtained the drop
on him.
Through having to carry 131 b. penalty,
Gold Rod met Pamelus on 61b. worse
than weight-for-age terms. Young Idea,
only a neck behind Pamelus, had earned
a 151 b. penalty. Jack Holt, his trainer,
frankly voiced disappointment over
Young Idea going out so wide at the
home turn. Yet Bartle told the press
interviewers that Percy Miller’s candi-
date had a perfect run. “Young Idea,”
he added, “was going great guns at the
finish. The seven furlongs was just a
little too short for him.”
When Gold Rod, Pamelus and Young
Idea meet at standard weight-for-age it
should be a race worthy of remem-
brance. No doubt punters again will
pin their faith to Pamelus, but the big
fellows who follow Holt’s stable can
be relied upon to support young Idea.
Meanwhile Gold Rod is the idol of
the hour, having added £2300 to his
already large earnings. (E. J. Watt re-
ceived an additional £lOO through being
the nominator of the Futurity Stakes
winner). The Chief Ruler chestnut is
distinctly different from Pamelus in
shape and color. Pamelus is a bay, par-
ticularly powerful behind the saddle and
unmistakably pigeon-toed. He does not
fill the eye so well as Gold Rod, but
may soon avenge himself on that rival.
While not disgraced in the Alma Stakes
—he finished a close fifth with 9st. 71b.
and could not stretch out properly over
the last half-furlong—Lochlee’s form at
Caulfield was somewhat disappointing,
and the V.R.C. Sires’ Produce Stakes
begins to look more open, notwithstand-
ing the unfortunate absence, of Lynch
Law.
The Alma Stakes resolved itself into
a match between Caesar—trained by
Bailey Payten for AJ.C. chairman Colin
Stephen—and Nightguard, from the local
stable of Bill Tindall. Backed from 10
to 1 down to 7 to 1, Caesar succumbed
by a mere head to Nightguard, who went
out second favorite at fives. Tindall
had made a big “killing” on the previous
Saturday for Andy Morrow with Quasi-
modo. Before taking up residence in
Melbourne his headquarters were at
Randwick.
Payten promises to do well with his
team at the autumn meetings in Vic-
toria. For the narrow failure of Caesar
he was compensated when Disalto gained
a half-head verdict over gallant little
Hostile in the Hawksburn Handicap. As
he was conceding Disalto 151 b., the
honors certainly lay with Hostile, who
possibly is the fittest' racehorse in Mel-
bourne, as well as the most consistent.
In the first division of the St. Clair
Trial there was not a great deal to choose
between Gold Rod’s stable-mate Treasure
Trove and the Albanian gelding Afghan.
On breeding lines Treasure Trove ought
to be a clinking good mare; she is by
Gainscourt from Desert Gold. Though
Afghan hung out towards the end
Treasure Trove could not extend him
thoroughly. She registered her seventh
successive second—a remarkable, if un-
enviable, record.
The former Sydney galloper Rostrim
was served up favorite for the second
division of the St. Clair Trial, but once
more the backers of this Rossendale
gelding were left lamenting. Gay Chou
(Gay Lothario-Chouette) led all the way
and scored by no less than five lengths
from Rostrim. The reputation of the
latter was founded on having beaten
Mala (odds-on) in Sydney towards the
end of last season. It cannot sustain
him much longer.
Nothing at Caulfield was more con-
vincing than the fashion in which North-
wind accounted for his Woodeliff Handi-
cap rivals. The Caulfield Cup hero is
back to best form, and stable confidence
was manifested by the son of Windbag
fieing backed from 6 to 1 to 7 to 2—•
favorite. Perhaps Peerage would have
been a closer second if the rider of this
Chivalrous colt had not rushed him from
nearly last to first in a few furlongs.
Viceroy, the original favorite, got shut in
on the rails for a long while and could
not obtain an opening in the straight.
It wasn’t the true form of the Limond
gelding by any means.
* * * *
Old Lough Neagh has never failed to
earn his oats on his numerous visits to
Sydney. He started again at Victoria
Park on Wednesday by winning a division
of the Flying Handicap. He was not
badly treated with 9st. 71b. in a field of
12, the also-aged Golden Gate being
next to him with Bst. 81b., and he went
out a 6-to-4 favorite. Seventh into the
straight and sixth with a furlong to go,
the Queensland chestnut made up his
ground so rapidly from that stage that
at the end he was a length ahead of the
second horse, a three-year-old called
Silver Cap, with Bonnie Rion, another
two lengths away, third. The old ’un ran
“six and a half” in lmin. 20sec. As he
can still go two miles at a sound pace,
he is quite likely to add to his weight-for-
age record at Easter.
* * * *
Sydney trainers who have taken teams
to Victoria have already been heard to
say that Melbourne form is better than
they bargained for. Upoko Ariki, Fal-
staff and Bom bus failed at Moonee
Valley on Wednesday. Upoko Ariki was
a 2-to-l favorite for the Bulla Handicap,
“a mile and a quarter and 10 yards.” He
led into the straight, but was rapidly
passed by two lightweights, Demotic and
Peerage, and finished an unimpressive
third. The clock recorded very fast time
—2min. 4|sec. —and Demotic is now
being talked of for the Australian Cup,
in which he has 6st. 71b., 111 b. less than
he carried to victory. He is a six-year-old
gelded son of Burrabadeen, himself a
stayer and a sire of stayers. Pooley
Bridge, who has figured as favorite for
the Australian Cup, was one of the beaten
lot.
Another son of Burrabadeen in Ban-
quet (7 to 1) accounted for Falstaff and
Bombus in a division of the Magdala
Handicap. He was getting lumps of
weight from both, but the indications
were that he could have defeated them
with another stone on his back. With
7st. 91b. atop he cut out the six furlongs
in lmin. 12sec. Falstaff, who had 9st.
71b., led into the straight but weakened
—naturally. Bombus struggled into third
place, lengths behind the runner-up.
Falstaff will need to mend his man-
ners in Melbourne ; in the Hawksburn
Handicap at Caulfield on Saturday he
was left at' the post.
* * * *
From a full-page Sydney “D.T.” ad.
published on Feb. 5, the effusion of a
gentleman who runs what he calls a
“racing organisation” and charges 10s. a
day for the information he imparts:—-
GOLD ROD IS FINISHED.
HE’LL NEVER BE A CHAMPION OF
THE TURF ANY MORE.
ALREADY HE’S FALLEN OUT OF
SHAPE.
I viewed with sorrow the investment of
thousands of pounds on Gold Rod for the
Kurnell Handicap at Randwick. For I
knew those punters hadn’t a 100-to-l
chance of collecting. The bookmakers
were on a dead cert. Backers were stack-
ing their cash chips on a champion who is
no longer a champion. What I had seen
of Gold Rod made me realise that he was
all to pieces....
The prophet is reputed to have hundreds
of regular “clients.” And the chances
are —“clients” being what they are—-that
he will keep most of them even though
the colt that was “finished,” “all to
pieces,” has since beaten all the cham-
pions at worse, than w.f.a.
* * * *
It is rare for a horse to win the Oak-
leigh Plate and the Newmarket in the
same season, but admirers of Aurie’s
Star (Bst. 51b.) are confident that he can
complete the double. He certainly broke
up the Oakleigh Plate field, but he had
no Pamelus to meet, and Pamelus, with
9st. 71b., albeit unlucky in big races, is
going to be hard to beat. Regular
Bachelor (9st. 71b.), Hostile (9st. lib.) and
Disalto (Bst. 41b.) have sound credentials,
and Studio (Bst. 131 b.) and Beech wood
(Bst. 71b.) are very fast. This Page’s
fancy is Country Party (7st. 91b.). What-
ever may be thought of his efforts at
the 1935 V.R.C. spring meeting, which led
to his retirement for a twelvemonth, he
certainly improved greatly between the
Tuesday and the Saturday, and with the
needed race he has had he may do the
same again. And the Flemington straight
should suit him better than Caulfield did.
* * * *
“Here’s a Doncaster horse,” said more
than one shrewd punter when J. T.
Hackett’s Heroic gelding Lolorua, backed
from fifteens to eights, made an exhibi-
tion of a strong field in the Glenfield
Handicap at Warwick Farm. Lolorua
played up at the barrier, and was on the
outside, No. 19. Nevertheless, he. jumped
out first and led throughout, beating
Shackleton and Fernacre, who just cut
Bonnie Legion out of third prize. Elec-
tron, the favorite, gave his backers a
poor run for their money, but the
Queenslanders High Speech and Stuart
M. ran pretty well. Stuart M. was in the
leading division to the turn; High
Speech, slow away, finished on in ninth
place.
Lolorua is a four-year-old. He can
go a mile, and in him the Hackett interest
may have another Jacko.
Fireman’s excellent condition enabled
him to run out a fast 10 furlongs in the
Warwick Handicap. He started at sixes,
but sevens could be got. Barramul tried
to steal the. race, as he had done at
Canterbury, but he was not allowed to
streak away too far, and Fireman had
him covered in the last furlong. Finish-
ing gamely under the whip, The Bulle-
tin’s choice beat Barramul by a length,
with Kinsfolk, who ran wide at the top
of the straight, a similar distance away,
and Peanut, a good—and rather unlucky
—fourth. Celebrate and Sir Regent fol-
lowed, the last-named (favorite) being
very tired at the end.
Warwick’s “easy” mile suited Arabia's
brilliancy in the Farm Novice. The grey
Heroic gelding had found “seven” too
far at Rosehill, but at the Farm W. Cook
hopped him out smartly, and, getting
breaks at each turn, the grey “walked
in” from Dusky Beau and Black Mist.
Forestage, fourth, got boxed up early
and did pretty well in the run home.
For some reason Arabia was very weak
in the early betting, sixes being shouted.
He wound up at 9 to 2.
Sturdee, raced by H. Ryan and A. M.
Cooley, was not in danger of defeat at
any stage of the Nursery, and this Cap-
tain Bunsby colt can be improved. He
was solidly supported at sevens. Nor-
mandy and Publicity did the fruitless
chasing.
Backers were all astray in the divisions
of the Maiden Handicap. In the first
little Mort found his nine stone too
much, and was beaten after going three
furlongs; Sir Sion (15 to 1) outstayed
Parlance and Strathbogie. The second
division went to Bailey Payten’s Heroic
gelding Cliquot, who eased to tens.
Leading throughout from an outside bar-
rier position, he won in a canter.
Bulldozer, eighth in the Glenfield Han-
dicap, was saddled up for the second time
in the Minto Handicap, a mile race, and
was backed from twelves to sixes. Young
Glover soon had him in front with
Heroic Faith, and when the latter was
shaken off in the straight Bulldozer had
enough in reserve to beat the fast-finish-
ing Panrose, who might have won had
he got out earlier. Fanfare, heavily
backed, beat only three home. It wasn't
his form, but backers will now be chary
of following him.
* * * *
Weights are out for the Doncaster and
the Sydney Cup, lists being headed by
Cuddle, 9st. 81b. (mile), and Silver Ring,
9st. 71b. (two miles). This Page is at-
tracted by Tuckiar (7st. 101 b.), Coun-
try Party (7st. 91b.) Silver Rose
(7st. 51b.) and Lolorua (7st. lib.)
for the Doncaster, and by Wotan (Bst.
121 b,), Talking and Silver Standard (Bst.
51b.), Viceroy (7st. 31b.), Demotic (6st.
121 b.) and Kinsfolk (6st. 121 b.) for the
Sydney Cup. A rough double: Silver
Rose and Kinsfolk.
* * * *
The King’s Cup race is to be run at
Perth this year—on Saturday, April 3
and it is to be confined to Westralian
horses. Balkan Prince heads the list with
9st. 51b., being reckoned 31b. better than
Panto. Yaringa, who proved herself
superior to Balkan Prince as a three-
year-old, has Bst. 131 b.
* * * *
“Retired Head”: Consternation was
caused among “the boys” at Victoria
Park (N.S.W.) when one of the regular
punting fraternity had to face the stipes
and explain why he was betting without
a license. Of course, he said he hadn’t
one, and he was warned that if caught
again the gate would be his portion. The
stewards’ action may lead to a revolu-
tion in betting practice. The punter
was wagering “in running,” a practice
followed by bookmakers and professional
punters all the world over; plenty of
non-professionals often resort to the
same means of improving their position
before the weight flag goes up. The
betting takes place in the thick of the
crowd on the lawn as the races draw
to a finish, and racecourse policemen are
going to have their work cut out nabbing
“offenders.”
Ins and Outs
To the cricketers successful at Adel-
aide (Chipperfield, of course, is a
casualty) Sievers and Nash have been
added for the fifth Test match at Mel-
bourne. Nash and Brown may be
omitted.
Badcock should be a certainty for Mel-
bourne on his batting for S.A. v. N.S.W.
at Sydney. His 93 n.o. on Saturday was
a gem. Noo South batted first, lost
Fingleton for 1, and had eight down for
177 (Robinson 47, McCabe 39, Barnes
31), when Oldfield (63) and White (108
n. 0.) began a splendid partnership; all
out 355 (Ward four for 89, Grimmett
three for 77). S.A. had lost three for
45 when Badcock came in; Lush had
just taken Whitington’s wicket with a
ball that would cause international com-
plications if it got Bradman in a Test.
Badcock pulled Lush’s short ones to the
fence, and stepped out to off- and cover-
drive O’Reilly with complete disregard
of leg-traps. Bradman (24) went l.b.w.
to O’Reilly. At stumps it was 208 for
eight, and South Aus. struggling.
Badcock went for the bowling on
Monday. He got to 136, the total to
270 (O’Reilly four for 40, Lush three
for 77). N.S.W. lost wickets quickly —
it was five for 160 (McCabe 56).
* * * *
Fast bowling seems to have the Eng-
lishmen worried. In the return match
against Victoria McCormick (three for
35), Nash (two for 21) Ebeling (two for
20) and Sievers (two for 36) kept their
score down to 187 (Ames 64 and Robins
33). Rain ended it for the day early on
Saturday afternoon. Victoria then had
144 for two ; Gregory 53 n.o. Monday
also was washed out.
(Continued on page SO.)


*1
.o v
s
ys<ls SCHt fp J
s'-'
S id*
v
:
o
v : :
lliilll
1
9
■;•■
■
■
I
iflii
mmm
“Well, now, that’s just what
I was thinking, myself.”
Si
AROMATIC SCHIEDAM
A
“As Good for Women as for Men.”
Wolfe’s Schnapps
is obtainable
everywhere in
Quarter, Half
and Large size
bottles.


The Commonwealth Government having prohibited the importation of American Firearms, the only Arms suitable
for all Australian conditions, WINCHESTER World Standard Rifles will shortly be unprocurable. 'Do not
miss this opportunity of obtaining the Rifle you want, the Rifle of supreme accuracy, and, above all, the Rifle
that is SAFE to shoot. Stocks are rapidly diminishing and cannot be replenished. ORDER NOW.
MODEL 67
.22-cal. Single-shot, Bolt-action, 27in.
Barrel, Elevating Rear Sight. Price 507-
Carriage Paid.
jgMc
MODEL 68
.22-cal. Single-shot, Bolt-action, 27in.
Barrel, Adjustable Peep Sight. Price 557-
Carriage Paid.
*2
MODEL 69
• 22-cal. Bolt-action Repeater, 25in.
Round Tapered Barrel; Two Maga-
zines, one for Short, other for Long and Long-rifle, with
Sporting Rear Sight. Price 95/-
With Adjustable Peep Sight. Price 957-
Carriage Paid.
•winchester
WORLD STANDARD RIFLES
have special proof steel barrels for the use of
Super-speed Cartridges, and are scientifically
proportioned, drilled and rifled to ensure maxi-
mum accuracy and balance. Full-size Walnut
Stock with Shot Gun type Butt greatly adds to
appearance and ease in handling.
Model 69, fitted with Lyman No. 422
Expert Telescopic Sight. Price, £B/10/-.
Carriage Paid.
WRITE FOR BOOKLET OF
'WINCHESTER
COMPLETE RANGE OF ARMS.
COWLES & DUNN
71 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
’Phone: M 3388.
MODEL 62
.22-cal. Slide-action, Hammer-
repeating Rifle, 23in. Round Barrel, for Short, Long
and Long-rifle. Price .. £5/10/-. Carriage paid.
MODEL 63
The “Speed King” .22-cal. Auto-
matic, 2 3 in. Round Barrel; tor
Long-rifle Super-speed Cartridges only.
Price £9/10/-. Carriage paid.
Iver Johnson Single-shot Bolt-
action Rifles, .22 cal. Model X,
22in. barrel 32/6
Carriage Paid.
Ins and Outs
N. S. Wales defeated the Englishmen
for the second time. In its second try
the State collected 246 (McCabe 93,
Oldfield 30 ; Fames four for 39). With
405 to get the Englishmen were helped by
an early partnership of 172, Hardstaff
contributing 64. Barnett, batting like a
champion, finished up a sparkling 117
(two sixes) with a poor stroke at Hynes,
and though Ames (60) and Duckworth
(10 n. 0.) prolonged the agony overnight
the end came swiftly on the morning of
the fourth day; the score was 299.
Lush added to his first-innings success
by taking seven for 72—13 for 115 for
the match, including three wickets for
four balls. N.S.W. can claim to be the
only State team to have beaten England
twice on the one tour. It achieved the
feat in 1887-88 at the expense of Shaw
and Shrewsbury’s team.
* * * *
“Five Ways”: Queensland winds up
its Sheffield Shield season in a discon-
solate mood. It won only one match,
and, queerly enough, that was against
the N.S.W. team which so handsomely
licked the Englishmen later. Things have
been worse. In 1932-33 Queensland
didn’t score a point. This time, it has
five points. The State’s best run was in
1930-31, when it was third to N.S.W.
and Victoria. Tallon heads the batting
averages with 36.16 for 12 innings and
a “highest” of 101. Fast-medium bowler
Dixon, who is also a Rugby Union State
rep., has taken 22 wickets at 24.
* * *
“Tenth Slip”: Barnett had just started
to make runs in this country when
The Bulletin congratulated him on
his old-fashioned tendency to smack
the. ball, instead of poking it, and forecast
a good season for him. The match witn
N.S.W. left him with a total of 1324 in
first-class games, or half a dozen better
than Sutcliffe’s 1932-33 tally. The total
has been topped only by Hammond
(1553) in 1928-29 and Hardstaff, senior
(1360), in 1907-08, and at time of writ-
ting, with two more first-class games to
go, the Gloucester lad may head the pair
of them.
* * * *
“Moore Park”: After the England-
N.S.W. match Harold Heydon, secretary
of the N.S.W.C.A., commented dolefully
on the falling off in attendances. This
cannot altogether be blamed on bad
cricket, for some of the Sydney games
this season have been full of interest.
And, as Heydon points out, the same
falling off is observable in all branches
of sport in and around Sydney, the slump
being more emphatic than in the worst
days of the depresh. The, crowds on the
beaches and the golf and tennis-players
are no more numerous to-day than they
were then. Where, then, have the lost
legions betaken themselves?
Hs * * *
“Hotham”: Allan’s contention in a
speech in Sydney that a return should be
made to a time limit for Tests will receive
the endorsement of a great majority of
cricket followers who do not regard cash
as the be-all and end-all of the game. The
first indication of the blight that the all-in
system was bringing was the refusal of
batsmen in a tight corner to go for runs.
This has been followed by static methods.
We have seen some of the world’s best
batsmen, going in on a perfect wicket in
ideal weather, refusing to take the slight-
est risk, secure in the knowledge that it
they just stuck in the runs would come
along when the bowlers had worn them-
selves out. Stroke-making has practi-
cally vanished from the game, though
the Test sides contain some of the best
professors of the art now playing. Allen
says his report to the M.C.C. will strongly
urge the change for matches in Australia.
In England five days are considered
enough, and results since that limit was
imposed have shown that it was ample.
* * * *
“Gabba”: There is something wrong
with that cricket par. which says (B.
10/2/’37) that receipts at the Sydney
Test, in spite of the Bridge City’s vastly
greater population, were. £2OOO less than
at Brisbane. In fact, they were £2OOO
more. What the writer evidently meant,
though his par. say so, was that
the Sydney swag was much smaller than
Brisbane’s, taking into consideration the.
population of the two cities.
* $
“Tenth Slip”: A Sydney cricket writer
slipped when he wrote that Fleetwood-
Smith was “the first Australian Test-
player to wear a moustache.” Shades
of the early Gregorys, Garrett, Horan,
Bonnor, Boyle, Blackham and others who
affected beards in addition to a beer-
strainer! As to the plain moustache, it
is pretty safe to say that up to the 1900’s
the moes far outnumbered the monkey-
faces in England and Australia.
* * >1: *
“Tenth Slip”: Sydney Uni. intends to
make a jamboree out of its match with
the Englishmen on March 8 and 9. The
“On my right Knockout Reilly, thirteen stone; on my left Tiger
Johnson, thirteen stone two and a 'arf!”
Uni. team will be drawn from all the
Australian universities, and a pretty solid
side should result. The social side will
be as prominent as the sporting.
* * * *
“Hotham”: Most folk think the Board
of Control exists to make irritating regu-
lations to govern players or to quarrel
with the. Maryleboners over bodyline.
Few know the toilsome thought and the
midnight oil it devotes to the welfare of
the game. It has just altered an impor-
tant law of cricket —that which enjoins
that if any part of a fieldsman’s person
or clothing touch the. boundary when he
has the ball in hand a four shall be
counted. In future the batsman will not
get the credit of a boundary hit. It
seems an unimportant matter compared
with some other cricket items with which
the board might well deal, but, after all,
it is the little things that really count.
* * * *
“Xo”: M. L. Page, skipper of the
Maoriland cricketers to tour Britain this
year, is no stranger to English wickets;
he scored 1379 runs on the 1927 tour
and 990 on the 1931 tour, 104 of the
latter total being knocked up in one
innings of the first Test at Lord’s. He
led Maoriland against S’Africa in 1931-
32 and against Jardine’s team in 1932-33.
Page is one of the three Maorilanders
who have represented the country at
cricket as well as Rugby, having played
half in Porter’s 1928 All-Blacks. C. J.
Oliver, vice-captain of the 1935 All-
Blacks, and Dickenson, of Otago, are the
other two all-rounders ; Tindill, the young
Wellington ’keeper and Rugby rep.,
stands a Test chance of making the
fourth. Manager of the touring team is
T. C. Lowry, Maoriland’s most spectacu-
lar cricketer. He skippered Cambridge
in 1924, and has played for Somerset-
shire, the Gentlemen of England and the
M.C.C. team that went to Maoriland in
1922-23 ; on two occasions he captained
M.L. teams visiting England, and in
1925-26 toured Australia. He is a
brother-in-law of A. P. F. Chapman, and
is a pastoralist.
Nineteenth Hole
“Spoon”: More trouble over Hagen-
Kirkwood. For one reason or another
the M.L. tour has been cut to 12 days,
and the players will come to Sydney
from Wellington instead of going from
The Bluff to Melbourne. They should
be. in Sydney on March 12, according
to latest arrangements, and after four
days’ play here will go to Brisbane.
Following a week there they will play
a couple of games in Sydney on their
way to Melbourne, and from there, they
will skip westward, bound for eastern
Asia.
* * * *
“Sandy Gallop”: A feature of the
Queensland State championship meet-
ing will be a professional-amateur four-
baller. This will take the place of the
amateur v. professional match which
used to be the pipe-opener for the. Bris-
bane tourney every year. The idea is
that both sets of players will be able to
get some keen, competitive practice
before the serious job of the champion-
ships begins.
* * * *
“Hoylake”: Australian golferettes
bound Coronationwards are notified that
the British L.G.U. will hold a general
meeting at Beaconsfield golf club’s
course in Bucks on Friday, May 14. This
will be for visiting members of Dominion
and colonial golf clubs affiliated with
their local unions. Invitations are speci-
ally issued to all these, and a most elabo-
rate programme is being drawn up with
handsome trophies to mark the occasion
for the winners.
•«* * *
“Divot Digger”: More golf reforms
are mooted. The U.S.A. is kicking
against the growing craze for the caddie-
adviser. This leads to play being held
up while players and their caddies go
into conference as to the best method
of playing a shot. The reformers argue
that when the average player takes the
field he expects to play an opponent
who is about as big a mug as himself
and not a professional expert as well.
An even worse outcome of the new craze
is that players are now bidding secretly
for the services of the most skilful
caddies, in spite of the efforts of club
officials to stop the practice. The result
is that the man who holds the longer
purse is likely to hold the winning card.
«: * * *
“Wooden Ham”: No longer need
green committees offer up burned sac-
rifices of secretaries and green-keepers
when droughty weather causes the cher-
ished grass plots to take on the hue of
the blushing maiden of 117. An in-
genious American has discovered a dye
which will bring the most parched green
back to its virgin hue and keep it like
that. Cost of dyeing is only a dahlar,
and several colors are available. A
tartan pattern for a Scottish tourney
would be a pretty conceit.
* * * *
“Brassey”: He was a cowed-looking
individual who announced to the club
professional that his wife had ordered
him to learn golf at once, and had sup-
plied him with money to buy equip-
ment. The professional sold him a ball
and half a dozen clubs, telling him the
name of each, and after giving him a
tip or two as to stance, etc., went back to
his work. Quarter of an hour later the
neophyte put his head in the door of
the shop. “I want,” he said, naming the
clubs he had been supplied with, “a
driver, brassey, spoon, mashie, niblick
and putter.” “An’ a ball?” stuttered the
astonished pro. “Nay,” was the reply;
“Ah’ve noan hit that yet.”
Racquet and Bawl
“Top Spin”: As usual, the Austra-
lian Davis Cup team has been snowed
under with invitations to play in tourna-
ments in California and the Middle
States. It is to be. hoped that the
A.L.T.A. will curb its love for the spon-
dulicks and refuse these, however profit-
able they may promise to be. The
team’s mission is to win the Cup, and
anything leading to staleness should be
avoided like the devil. Whatever the
result of the American play, Quist,
Bromwich and McGrath will go on to
Wimbledon —Crawford is not sure.


DUCKS MUST BE HIT HARD
-
m
RHENWEST
SHOTGUN CARTRIDGES
have been on the Australian market about four years.
In that time users of them over traps have won many Championships and
innumerable cash and other prizes.
A recent win was the Australian Teams Championship shot at Tottenham
on the grounds of the Melbourne Gun Club on February 1.
A team composed of W. B. Wilkinson, “Harrison,” S. L. Snipe, and
J. M. Allan defeated twenty competitive teams.
ALL FOUR SHOOTERS USED RHENWEST EXCLUSIVELY.
The great speed, punch, and pattern of Rhenwest make this world’s best
ammunition first favourite with duck shooters as with trap shooters.
All Rhenwest Cartridges contain Powder and are all one grade
—the best. The twelve gauge cartridges are obtainable in four shot
loads loz., 1 1-160 z., 1 |oz. and I |oz. The all contain 1 Joz.
OBTAINABLE AT STORES & SPORTS DEPOTS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA.
Sole Australian Loaders:
HARVEY SHAW SUCCESSORS
(D. & W. Chandler, Ltd.),
560-566 Lonsdale Street, Melbourne.
Distributors for Queensland:
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN, 301-6 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Distributors for New South Wales:
SYDNEY IMPORTING CO., LTD., 521-3 Kent Street, Sydney.
Distributors for South Australia:
HARRIS, SCARFE, LTD., Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
Distributors for West Australia:
HARRIS, SCARFE & SANDOVERS, LTD., Hay Street, Perth.
Distributors for Southern Tasmania:
HARRIS & MARSH PTY., LTD., 15-77 Liverpool Street, Hobart.
Distributors for Northern Tasmania:
W. HART & SONS PTY., LTD., Charles Street, Launceston.
The Finest Novel of Australia Ever Written!
Miles Franklin’s Brilliant Prize-winning Novel
»
■
1
1
*
m
2-£
(Postage 5d.)
NOW ON SALE
ALL BOOKSELLERS
OR FROM THE PUBLISHERS.
Winner of the 1936 S. H. Prior Memorial Prize for Australian
Literature, “All That Swagger” has been acclaimed the real Australian
story. A brilliant work in sheer writing planned and carried out on
a grand scale and covering one hundred years to 1933. “All That
Swagger” adds memorable characters to Australian literature, has a
stirring dramatic quality in its story and a splendid theme.
"SYDNEY MORNING HERALD":
“. . . .Miles Franklin’s ‘All That Swagger’ gives a wholesome balance
to literary record with her convex picture of pioneering, if not without
tears, then certainly without wanton brutalities. She is to be
congratulated upon both the breadth and height of her achievement; she
has produced a work of integrity, peopled with characters which are
not giants or satyrs, but endearing humans, lit with the never-guttering
flame of passionate idealism and an exultant devotion to the soil and
soul of Australia.’’
"HERALD," MELBOURNE:
“Nobody can deny that the authoress knows her scene. She makes it
magnificent, sometimes lurid, always vital. ...”
"SUN," MELBOURNE:
“. . . .Let us therefore just call this a good novel, which is high praise,
for really good novels in this world are few and far between.”
PUBLISHED
by fafeuLletCa
252 GEORGE STREET.
SYDNEY.
“Tenakoe”: Auckland (M.L.) has sent'
over three junior tennis players, Brown,
Mayson and Gunn, to imbibe the
root of the. matter by watching ex-
ponents like Quist, McGrath and Craw-
ford at work. Mayson is the star, hav-
ing recently won the Auckland singles
championship.
Miscellaneous
“Gate”: Frank Hurley, the Rugby
League threequarter, is the latest Sydney
professional to sign up with an English
club, Hull being the seducer. Terms are
£5OO for a four years’ contract, £6 per
win, £5 per draw and £4 per loss. The
N.S.W. League made a fruitless effort
to keep the young man.
* * * *
“Melville”: Ankin Ahmet, who is an
Australian in spirit if not in name, must
be rated one of Australia’s keenest foot-
ballers. He plays with the Buffaloes,
an Australian Rules team in the Darwin
competition, and the summons to play
in an extra-special fixture reached him
while he was 350 miles away in Arnhem
Land. He set out hotfoot for Darwin,
there to join his four brothers in the
ranks of the Buffaloes. It is true that
some Australian Rugby League players
take longer trips than that to play for
some club or other. But they are well
paid for it, while Ankin seems to be
just one of those poor mugs who tackle
games for the fun of it.
* * * *
“Fitzcray”: The V.F.L. has published
its programme for the coming season.
The first round opens on April 24 and
the last on August 28. The finals will
be played on Sept. 4, 11, 18 and 25. A
motion that if a team wins by less than a
goal it be entitled to three points instead
of four, the other point going to the
losing side, has been referred by the
League committee to the clubs. The
idea is derived from the cricket practice,
whereby more points are granted for an
outright win than for one on a first
innings.
* * * $
“Centre Half”: The English Soccer
team will have to go its hardest. Begin-
ning with a match against N.S.W. or
Australia in Sydney on July 3, the tour-
ists are to have their farewell kick
against Westralia at Perth just a month
jater. There will be 10 matches in all,
including two Tests, one in Sydney and
the other in Brisbane.
“Stand Off”: For once the N.S.W.
Rugby Union has been able to secure
good dates at the Sydney Cricket Ground
for its star matches without having to
fight the professional Rugby League for
the privilege. The Springboks’ three
appearances in Sydney will be on the big
ground on June 19, 26 and July 17.
The Soccer folk have booked July 3 for
their Test with the English amateurs, so
there is no fear of the two codes clashing.
* * * *
“Mak”: When the Springboks reach
Melbourne in June they will be officially
welcomed by a S’African! For the 12th
year in succession the Vic. Rugby Union
has made E. M. Cowen its president.
Once a Cape Colony solicitor and notary
public, he reached Sydney in 1908, and
before shifting to Melbourne was cap-
tain of North Sydney harriers. He
is chairman of the Vic. Amateur Swim-
ming Association, vice-president of the
Water Polo Association, a member of
the Vic. Olympic Council and the Aus-
tralian Olympic Federation, president of
the Olympic Pool Swimming Club and a
vice-president of the Melbourne Chess
Club. Cowen had his 53rd birthday last
week, but played his last R.U. game
only three years ago. He has represented
Vic. against N.S.W. at chess, and for the
eight years of its existence he has been
hon. adviser to the Vic. Amateur Ladies’
Swimming League. In his spare time he
runs an Elizabeth-street business.
* * * *
“Stand Off”: The Hanover Army
Corps command in Germany has issued
a general order commanding all troops
under its authority to play Rugby foot-
ball as one of the official games of the
German Army. It will be interesting to
see how it works. It will be quite out
of the question for officers and other
ranks to mingle in the rough and tumble
of Rugby, as is the case in British Army
and Navy teams. And if the game is
to be divided into watertight compart-
ments for officers, n.c.os. and men it
will be worthless as a means of encour-
aging the spirit of camaraderie.
* * * *
“Shrewsbury”: The King’s School,
Sydney, is making quite a splash in Eng-
lish sport. Campbell has been starring
for England as a Rugby forward, and
another King’s boy, Lewes, goes into the
Oxford eight for the race to be rowed
on March 24. It will be a Wednesday
race, the first for years, tides compelling
this. Lewes, who will row No. 2, was
six in The King’s boat in the G.P.S.
race of 1933. He is this year president
of the University Boat Club.
* * * *
“Hawthorn”: N.S.W. rowing crews
are not infrequently seen in Melbourne,
but it is rare to see one from Victoria in
one of Ma’s regattas. Mercantile club’s
lightweight eight will compete for the
N.S.W. title on March 20 on the Nepean.
The crew has made a clean sweep of all
Victorian opposition for a couple of
seasons past under the coaching of J.
South. Before going north, it will try
its teeth at Barwon and Ballarat regattas,
“Hawthorn”: Victoria, anxious to re-
gain its old rowing prestige, has been
combing the clubs for its inter-State
eight, and selectors Smith, Anderson and
Thompson consider they have collected
the best crew available. Ray Godfred-
son, of Richmond, is stroke, and four
others from Richmond are included,
Haimsworth at bow. Croft, also of
Richmond, is cox. The crew averages
12st. 4Ub., and four have had King’s
Cup experience. Purves, winner of the
State sculls, will represent Victoria in
the race for the Australian title.


The Union Trustee Company of Australia, Ltd.
2 O'CONNELL STREET - SYDNEY
ACTS AS
Executor, Trustee, Administrator, Attorney, Etc.
(Established 1885.)
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE AND TOWNSVILLE.
Amongst the advantages derived:—
The Company never dies, never leaves the State, and is always available.
ABSOLUTE SECURITY, EXPERT & ECONOMICAL SERVICE.
N.S.W. DIRECTORS: .
F- E. Bryant (Chairman); Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, K.8.E., M.L.C. (Vice-Chairman),
Sir Graham Waddell, K.8.E.; James Kidd, W. H. Mackay, J. Beresford Grant,
Colin A. Sinclair. Manager: J. G. H. Shipway.
(i WRITE OR CALL FOR FREE EXPLANATORY BOOKLET .)
#■ \ -i
C£
flfi
m
fPENS
Every point
guaranteed
do not experiment with imitations.
G BKAKDAOER * CO. Ltd. BIRMINGHAM, ENG
SHADOW
SHOWS
“The Gorgeous Hussy.”
INNKEEPER’S LOVELY
DAUGHTER .... Joan Crawford.
DASHING NAVAL LAD,
Robert Taylor
PRESIDENT JACKSON,
Lionel Barrymore
MRS. JACKSON .... Beulah Bondi
SENATORS, Melvyn Douglas, Franchot
Tone and Sidney Toler
SCANDALMONGERING DAME,
Alison Skipworth
A well-staged period piece. Place,
Washington; time, the 1820’s. Based on
a novel by Samuel Hopkins Adams. The
innkeeper’s daughter is regarded with
respect and affection by all the great
men of the Capitol. She loves the
haughty Senator Randolph, of Virginia
(Douglas), champion of States rights,
but he rejects her affection and she mar-
Melvyn Douglass in “The Gorgeous
Hussy,” at Sydney St. James.
lies her naval lieutenant, who is forth-
with killed in action. Then she attaches
herself to “Old Hickory,” and on the
death of the President’s wife becomes
unofficial chatelaine of White House.
She becomes engaged to Randolph, but
splits with him because he puts Virginia
first and the Union second, and marries
Secretary of War Eaton (Tone), who
holds to the Federalist view of Daniel
Webster and Andrew Jackson. Scandal
. assails her. The President intervenes on
her behalf, but eventually she and her
husband decide to leave the U.S.A., and
Eaton goes to Spain as ambassador.
The plot is worked out on the screen
in a manner heavily romantic and senti-
mental, but nevertheless interesting. It
is a long film, well over the standard 90
minutes, but the character acting of
Barrymore and Beulah Bondi as a pair
of homely old pioneers (Rachel Jackson
smoked a clay pipe almost to her dying
day), of Taylor, conducting a whirlwind
courtship, of Toler, as the silver-tongued
Dan’l Webster, and of a dozen others
keeps it alive. Miss Crawford has the
sort of role in which she shines, the set-
tings are true to period, and frequent
clashes of temperament' provide a leaven
of good drama. If the sentimental bits
were a little, less soggy this could be
acclaimed as the best bit of historical
reconstruction Hollywood has turned
out. Previewed at M.-G.-M. Theatrette,
Sydney.
“North of Nome.”
SEAL POACHER Jack Holt
COMPULSORY GUEST,
Evelyn Venable
HI-JACKER Guinn Williams
Set in Alaska, where men are men and
wimmen are durned scarce, this piece
has plenty of red-blooded action.
Mr. Holt, who considers it his right
to help himself to seals when and where
he will, gets his skins nicely stacked
when a nasty fellow in a faster boat than
his hi-jacks them and leaves Mr. Holt
marooned on an island.
Arrives, cast up from a wreck, a small
party of men and women, headed by the
pompous owner of the island, and
owner’s beauteous niece is overcome with
admiration for Mr. Holt’s prognathous
jaw and strong, silent manner. Even
when he virtually makes them prisoners
she suffers it gladly; but this Delilah
lures her Samson into a trap and in a
scuffle for a revolver the sap of the
party plugs her in the shoulder. Mr.
Holt performs some rough surgery, lurv
dawns, and happy-ending addicts ueed
feel no alarm about the outcome of the
thrilling climax.
Jack Holt can now do this stuff with
his eyes shut, and do it well. Evelyn
Venable represents innocence delight-
fully, is a good-looker, and has a plea-
santly modulated voice. Guinn Williams
glowers beneath beetling brows, and Paul
Hurst and Dorothy Appleby (the latter
a comedienne, of promise) cater for the
fun-and-games department. At Sydney
Capitol.
“Night Waitress.”
HASH JUGGLER .. Margot Grahame
MUSHY BOY-FRIEND, Gordon Jones
Another of the racketeering-gangster
potboilers that Hollywood turns out like
sausages. Perhaps the simile is not too
apt, for there is certainly no mystery
about this type of film —before a few
hundred feet have unrolled the end casts
its shadow.
This particular thriller deals with a
gang’s efforts to get away with the planted
proceeds of a bullion holdup. A small-
schooner skipper, who does gun-running
on the side, unwittingly helps the gang
conceal the booty. He gets in tow with
a soup-thumber in a waterfront hash
foundry and goes all gravy-eyed about
her. A double-crosser, after scribbling a
message to the goofy one on a serviette
—sahry, buddy, table-napkin—gets his
hardware issue from a platoon of the
boys whose, coats bulge beneath the left
armpit. When the cops arrive, the gal-
lant goil, who is not unacquainted with
the cold hard cell, does the oyster act
to protect her admirer. There’s a bit of
shadow-sparring between the Big Shot’s
minions and the. skipper, who then retires
Irene Dunne in “Theodora Goes Wild,”
at Sydney State.
to his floating fortress, holding one bad
man a prisoner. But the mariner’s know-
ledge of knot-tying is so sketchy that
the gangster escapes inside four minutes,
and there’s more skirmishing, with
skipper, waitress and cops united against
the bad men in a final all-in. It ends in
the usual way, which further weakens
the sausage simile, for that comestible at
least has a twist at the end.
Acting is second-rate. Gordon Jones,
allotted the job of portraying a hard-
bitten seafarer, looks and acts like a
calf. Margot Grahame is better, which
still isn’t commendation. The rest of
the bunch just make up the number.
But the opus moves smartly. At Sydney
Capital.
“This’ll Make You Whistle.”
SONG-AND-DANCE CHAPPIE,
Jack Buchanan
BLONDE SOUBRETTE, Elsie Randolph
A well-produced, fast-moving comedy
which makes tears of joy and eye-shadow
run on feminine cheeks. Buchanan is
Bill, a mental bigamist, pawn of Laura
Sidney Toler as Dan’l Webster in
“The Gorgeous Hussy.”
and the more approachable Joan, who,
possesses a formidable mother. Bill’s two
pals, Archie and Reggie, get up to tricks
to scare off Laura, and Joan’s mother
comes in for some practical jokes too.
Laura’s venerable guardian has a re-
pressed mania for making whoopee, so
that, instead of being shocked by bizarre
happenings, he squeals “Yoicks!” drapes
a daisy-chain round his neck, fills every-
body up with champagne and stages a
party that lasts so long that no one can
remember what happened to Tuesday,
and Archie “comes to” in the south of
France with confetti and a marriage cer-
tificate in his pocket. Trying to escape
from various friends and enemies, Bill
and Archie disguise themselves as
bearded gendarmes and as hilariously
impossible effeminate chappies. They are
also in and out' of the swimming-pool and
of luxurious bedrooms, but everybody
pauses for breath now and then when
Bill sings little ditties or tap-dances with
the soubrette Bobbie. Buchanan acts
admirably, and Elsie Randolph as Bobbie
(who snared Archie in wedlock) has just
the right kind of voice and personality.
A can-can and a rumba are part of her
repertoire. The rest of the cast does
justice to the production. At Melbourne
Majestic.
“Secrets of Stamboul.”
TANIA, A RUSSIAN EXILE,
Valerie Hobson
ENGLISH SWEETHEART,
James Mason
KAZIM THE EUNUCH, Frank Vosper
COMIC RELIEF Peter Haden
A thriller in which the photography is
particularly interesting. The scenes de-
picting the Bosphorus are high camera
art, and the Turkish atmosphere, includ-
ing accent and gesture of the foreign
cast, is well planned.
Larry (James Mason) is sent to Tur-
key to run a tobacco firm and keep his
eyes open generally. He meets enemies
in the Pasha, various members of a
secret society who honor old Turkey,
Kazim the eunuch, and other unpleasant
gentlemen who are plotting to overthrow
the Government. Then he stumbles
on a store of machine-guns and rifles
in his own firm’s buildings. Diana, an
English blonde, pursues Larry to Tur-
key, where his interest has been awak-
ened by Tania, a good girl notwithstand-
ing that she has access to the Palace and
most of the crooks. There is an excit-
ing scene in the Tower of Death, where
Larry is handcuffed in cellophane (to
dissolve in the Bosphorus, so that he’ll
look like a suicide), and a dramatic inter-
lude between Kazim and the Baroness,
Tania’s mother, who plays patience and
drinks vodka. Peter Haden is well cast
as Larry’s friend, a comedy character
always saying the wrong thing.
Until the smoke of the pitched battle
in the palace has cleared away in the last
reel, no one knows whether it’s to be the
Russian or the English girl who gets
Larry. At Melbourne Majestic.
“The Merry Mutineers.”
Seen at Sydney State, a Columbia ven-
ture into the colored cartoon field. Color
is good, but drawing and synchronisation
aren’t up to the Disney standard. How-
ever, freshness of idea makes the film
interesting. It’s on a pirate ship manned
by film stars. The players are paired off
and their faces changed over: George
Arliss becomes a grinning Joe E. Brown ;
the large-mouthed comedian a bored,
sooperiah Arliss; Fred Astaire makes a
lugubrious Stanley Laurel. Other like-
nesses are cleverly contrived ; a carica-
ture of Laughton’s Captain Bligh—back
view of a coat and hat and flaying whip
chiefly—should give a laugh to anyone
who saw that fierce martinet.
STAGE SHOWS.
The Ballet.
The programme, for the last week of
the Russian Ballet’s season at Sydney
Royal—there’s to be a different one for
the final night—has much better balance
than some of the preceding ones. There
Lionel Barrymore as “Old Hickory” in
“The Gorgeous Hussy”
is color throughout. “Thamar,” pre-
sented for the first time in Sydney, the
scene of which is the bedchamber of a
twelfth-century Georgian queen, is suc-
ceeded by the charmingly romantic “Le
Spectre de la Rose,” and then by the
Oriental magnificence of “The Fire-
Bird” ; all rounded off with one of those
delightful ballet-revue pieces, “Le Beau
Danube.”
In “Thamar” Fokine has provided the
ideal opening number for a ballet pro-
gramme. The piece is brief, dramatic,
arresting. Leon Bakst looked after the
setting and costumes, relying on a sump-
tuous divan and a sliding door for his


H IrctUA
than aTUBE
PRESS THE FLASK
AND THE POWDER'S
ON THE BRUSH
Here’s a tooth powder which
really cleans your teeth, in a new
packing which is ever so much
easier to use than old-fashioned
tins and tubes. Just press the flask
and the powder is on your brush.
F. C. Calvert & Co., Ltd., England. “
CALVERTS
CARBOLIC /
tooth powdel
******
IDENTICAL WITH THE CIGARETTES
CHOSEN BY Mr. RICHARD CROOKS
9 tor 6a,— 18 tor 1/
Cork-Tippod or Plain
i
CUT —THE FINEST MONEY CAN BUY
effects, and decking the queen’s maids in
veils and flowing draperies and the men
with cloaks. Balakireff’s music has the
seductiveness of the queen herself. From
the moment when the queen, roused by
her maids, waves her scarf to attract a
passing traveller the attention is focused
upon her. There is a suggestion of im-
pending disaster in all her frolickings
with the unsuspecting prince, as though
she and her people are but waiting for
the moment when he, too, will meet the
doom of all who accept her invitation.
Raievska invests every action of Thamar
with meaning. She is languid, disinter-
ested, while the girls prepare her to wel-
come her victim, but once the moment
arrives she exercises her blandishments
with sinister intensity. She takes delight
in watching the death of the prince and
the disposal of his body, then appears
overcome with the wearisome futility of
the whole business. There could hardly
be a more dramatic finish than her
rousing herself again and waving the
scarf to entice another traveller. It is a
splendid piece of acting, dominating the
whole piece, giving it life and vigor
above and beyond the beauty of the
dancing. Woizikowsky is the prince.
Not so noticeably here, because o£ the
urgency of Raievska s interpretation, he
gives definiteness to a ballet as soon as
he appears. The other dancers seem
to take on a new certainty with his
arrival. Deftly and surely he etches a
character, but always the dancing is the
more important, more to be cared for,
that it may appear easy, graceful. Still
these two do not capture all the interest:
girls and men perform, singly, in couples
and all together, to give the impression
ca P tured tlmr
& '
* * * *
Young Love and Nerves.
Brett Randall’s new Melbourne Prin-
cess production, Paul Osborne’s “The
Vinegar Tree,” is hardly up to the stan-
dard of his previous 1937 presentations.
Described as a three-act comedy, it
features a precocious college-girl who
persists in informing her parents and
their uninvited house-guests that she s
still a virgin. There would have been
more first-night laughs if Reginald Dane,
playing the part of Max Lawrence, the
middle-aged artist who knows the girl’s
mother and is on intimate terms with her
aunt, had not got nervous when he had
trouble with his lines.
The artist and the aunt (thrice-married
Winifred Mansfield, whose part is excel-
lently played by Irene Mitchell) go for
a quiet and costless country week-end at
the Merricks’. Enid Hollins is the
fluttery and somewhat boring Laura
Merrick, and Guy Hastings does a
capital job as her bluff and natural hus-
band, Augustus. Laura thinks Max has
come to renew an old friendship, but
things get mixed with the arrival of
daughter Leone Merrick and her callow
boy-friend Geoffrey Cole (Myles Eason),
Cole, an unusually frank youth, has given
Leone the idea that she should “love and
su-u-ffer” before she’ll make a good wife,
She picks artist Max to teach her, and
there is a humorous climax,
Enid Hollins was inclined to overplay
her part; she “fluttered” continuously
and with exasperating thoroughness,
Guy Hastings and Irene Mitchell shared
first-night acting honors with easy arid
sincere work ; it was the playwright’s
fault that Augustus didn’t turn his
daughter up and smack her, as he should
have done in keeping with his character,
To Judy Thomas’s credit she made the
audience feel awkward for her Leone;
Myles Eason played his part with just
the right detachment.
CURRENT ARTBURSTS.
Thk ~R , Auth . alia „ Academy.”
a a , ~
. P° btlcian > Attorney-General Men-
zies > originated the idea. He felt there
was a need for a bod y which would
“represent Australian artists overseas”
and which could arrange for exchange
exhibitions with the Royal Academy and
the Royal Canadian Academy. And very
nice, too, if the proposed Australian
Royal Academy could be made truly and
fairly representative of Australian art and
artists. But there’s the rub. There are
several art societies in Australia, and they
live about as peaceably together as do
the nations of Europe—which means that
while they may not actually hate each
other they wouldn’t go so far as to dis-
approve of one another’s funerals. One
G f these societies, how or why is wropt
in mystery, has in effect constituted itself
the Australian Royal Academy. In
N . S . Wales, for instance, a provisional
committee of nine consisted of seven
members of this society, which admitted
into its select circle one representative
each from two other societies and left
others out in the cold altogether,
A little later, when the N.S.W. provi-
sional committee had grown to 10, it
proceeded (provisionally, of course) to
elect Academicians, and found without
very much surprise that 50 p.c. of its
own membership had undoubted claims
to the honor. Whereupon two of the
members of the committee —prospective
Academicians, too —pulled out.
The Australian Royal Academy, if
established, will wield great influence in
the Australian art world—more among
patrons than among artists —because of
its ability to grant a cachet of merit. If it
is to be narrowly exclusive from the out-
set it will be responsible for more in-
justices and injuries than rewards. Best
thing would be to start all over again
and commence with a conference of all
the. societies, fairly represented.
•J> *i*
Towels and Cubes.
At the Macquarie Galleries, Sydney,
is staged a show of paintings by four
young Tasmanian artists, pupils of Mil-
dred Lovett, of Hobart. In opening the
show Miss Thea Proctor said a kindly
word about the merits of the exhibits as
examples of decorative design, and there
it is possible to agree with her. In the
majority of cases composition and color-
ing are agreeable, and the pictures would
look pretty on any congenial wall. But
so would a map of Turkey done in post-
age-stamps if the sticker-on had a sense
of color and balance.
A search for originality among the
exhibits was fruitless, save that Eileen
Crow has painted a portrait of a caetus
on celotex, the surface of which is hairy
and does nothing towards bringing >out
the soul of the subject, which, when, last
seen in the flesh, was smooth and shiny.
Three landscapes, limned with a sweep-
ing disregard of facts, exhibit the bath-
towel-like texture so beloved by Roland
Wakelin and other followers of the im-
pressionist school of 40 years ago. The
style is appropriate to towels, blankets
and rugs. A closer approach to the
iridescent shimmer the Frenchmen were
aiming at is achieved by Miss Crow
in “Tree Trunks,” but, alas! they look
like something seen in a tropical
aquarium.
Any Kingston’s work is not so towel-
textury. She inclines to cubism. “Com-
position in Shells” in browns and white
is well drawn and an effective if rather
meaningless decorative panel.
Phyllis Pitman combines cubes and
towels. Her most ambitious offering is
“The Woman on the Cliff.” Woman is
fat. A “Sea Piece” —steamer funnels and
ventilators with a foreground of shells—
strikes the eye pleasantly, but the effect
is a bit chaotic.
Robert Montgomery has a sort of
poster style, painting in superimposed
flat washes.
“Aloes” is a piece of rather clever
painting, but depressing. Landscapes,
“The Red Barn” and “The Pink Cot-
tage,” may be intended to represent some
mood or aspect of nature, but the key
to the intention is missing.
A Meldrum Disciple.
Melbourne’s first art exhibition of the
year has been opened at the Athenaeum
—a one-woman show by Alma Figuerola,
a disciple of Max Meldrum. Meldrum’s
students prefer to paint and enjoy their
pictures by artificial light, and Miss
Figuerola, like most of the school, gets
little impression of sunlight into her
work. Most of her pictures are seen
through a haze, which in some instances
is cleverly painted, but shadows are often
too heavy to please the onlooker who is
not a member of the school. Of the
portraits, that of Mrs. A. D. Stanton
gives the impression of being a capable
if sombre essay, but in her portraiture
Miss Figuerola, in accordance with the
Meldrum teachings, makes an abstract
rather than an obvious approach to the
modelling of bone and muscle. Some of
the still-lifes make a lively and genuine
appeal, and the color and treatment of
petals in several of the flower pieces give
a bright effect against monotone back-
grounds. Several of the landscape
sketches are worthy of study.


AT II
THE 1 1
GMMYof SYDNEY
The Wentworth Hotel
faces Bridge Park and
offers patrons that
peace and quietness
sought after by aIL
Yet. just around the
corner, within two
minutes’ walking dis-
tance. you are in the
heart of Sydney . . .
Tariff per day:
Room and Breakfast from 10/6
Inclusive from 18/-
THE
WENTWORTH
HOTEL
BRIDGE PARK*SYDNEY
8W1361.
NEW REJUVENATION.
RE-AX PHOSPHATED BRAIN, BODY AND
NERVE TONIC (CONCENTRATED). Re-
stores your lost vitality and energy, soothes
the nerves and gives new life, clears the skin
and fortifies the body and muscles. Will not
affect the heart. 7/6 per box, post free.
R. J. ROBERTS, Manufacturing Chemist,
Post Office Box 44, Newtown.
Bartz Salts of the Earth
Drugs are only a temporary relief, but BARTZ,
the IMPROVED MINERAL SPRING TONIC
SALTS, is Nature’s own remedy for excessive
fat, headache, rheumatic pains, sleeplessness,
giddiness, high blood pressure, constipation, etc.
Obtainable all Chemists and Stores, price 6d.,
1/- and 2/-. Sole distributors,
British Colonial & Eastern Chemicals, Ltd.,
65-69 York Street, Sydney. ’Phone: BB 666..
When you go north for your holidays,
make a special point of seeing the show
place of Brisbane, the TRITTON Art
Gallery. This wonderful display in-
cludes such magnificent pieces from the
East as a 3-piece Vestibule Suite com-
prising two chairs and pedestal table
in Chinese Tisu Gue. These wonderful
:hings would make a world of difter-
ence to the appearance of your home.
Admission to the TRITTON Art Gallery
V. free. F. TRITTON (PTY.), LTD..
Complete Home Furnishers, George
Street, Brisbane.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
While the rest of Sydney is marooned
in the Sargasso that stretches sluggishly
between Christmas and Easter, the artists
are very up and coming. Society of
Artists president Sydney Ure Smith
and the Gallery trustees are already
planning an exhibition of Australian
art to greet the one hundredth and
fiftieth birthday next year. This ex-
hibition will be the most comprehensive
of its kind ever displayed ; it will start
with the earliest expression of brush and
pencil work in Australia, and will in-
clude examples of every phase of this
continent’s art. To house the canvases
all the top courts of the Gallery will
be in use.
Apart from these plans, preparations
for the Paris Exposition, to which goes
a cargo of our art treasures, keeps Syd
Smith, Charlie Lloyd Jones and Ulrich
Ellis busy. The pavilion in which the
Australian art will be displayed is being
built to the design of Sydney architects
Stephenson, Meldrum and Turner. It is
to be circular with a flat roof. On the
outside it will be white, with a deep
black base surmounted by an orange
band. The inside walls will be green.
Down near the floor the green will be
very deep, and as a wave lightens so
will the hue become paler, till at the
top it will be as light in tone as sea foam.
All the lighting, of course, will come
from overhead, and the whole of the
ceiling space will be a map of the world,
with Australia and France colored a rich
red —almost rust color. The Exposition
buildings are to be built in the grounds
of the Trocadero, and will extend to the
Champ de Mars. The Australian art
pavilion will be near the Eiffel Tower.
Tom Garrett had a great ovation at
the dinner given last week in his honor.
This filled the Automobile Club with
several generations of Newington old
boys and with cricketers, including four
of the English Test team, captain G. O.
Allen among them. Tom, young at 78,
is the last of those who played in the
first Test between England and Australia.
That was in Melbourne in March, 1877.
Elliott Napier, who was one of the
speakers, was still glowing 24 hours later
with vivid reminiscences of “the guest,”
who between 1876 and 1898 had played
in no fewer than 18 Tests.
“To every frock its coat” seems to
be the slogan of the autumn fashions.
And somewhere or other each coat has
its quota of fur. Very snuggley are the
flat collars of fur (Peter Panish) that
finish many a coat. These often end in
broad-ended cravats that tie in front.
This tying does not apply to the Persian
lamb or its meeker sister the astrakhan.
With autumn and the Show just over
the leaf in the calendar, the coats and
suits at Anthony Horderns’ preview
made ingratiating appeal. A black
woollen topcoat in novelty weave
knoppe finish was belted in patent
leather, and had a collar of black Per-
sian lamb (fitting flat around the neck
and flaring wide in front), flattering to
any facial contour.
At the Brickfield Hill store this Letter
handled woollens softer than silk. They
were the Angoras and fancy weaves that
occur over and over again in these cold-
days’ styles. Among the Angoras honor-
able mention goes to one of tree-bark
brown for the novelty of its sleeves. Set
in at the front from a triangle of the
material, they are gathered, arid give a
flowing effect. With this frock goes a
coat to tone which has similar sleeves
edged with astrakhan. There are two-
piece tunic suits of knit weave, and these
march well with either the Dalmatian
cap, with its knotted ends of patterned
silk, or with one of those dashing little
corduroy hats with a visor brim, which,
after, all prevents only one eye from
roving.
Feathers are on every second hat. Not
the ostrich frond, but the soft plumage
of wing and quill. A pair of yellow
wings poised on the top of a crushed-
in crown gives, romance to a velour hat.
One cunning mingling of feathers is a
crown in three folds, one red, one green,
one brown. Each fold is higher than the
other, and the whole has something the
effect of a tulip before it has opened.
The swallow-tail comes back in evening
frocks and in the three-quarter evening
coats. This is a very good style if you
are tall. Sensible and attractive is the
evening coat in black cloth of fancy
weave. This is made on princess lines ;
its softness fits to the waist, then falls
with the necessary flare, ground length.
It isjined with white satin, has a Paisley
patterned collar (very like an ordinary
costume coat collar) of cire satin, and is
fastened to the waist with large buttons
of the Paisley.
Furnishing damask supplies the newest
fabric for evening coats. This Letter
left the A.H. show with the warm mem-
ory of a knee-length coat in brilliant
blues and golds. This fitted (as do all
coats, it seems) to the waist, whence it
fell very flared, its two side widths richly
banded in kolinsky. Its wide revers
were corded till they stood out with a
ribbed effect.
The founding of a branch of the Brit-
ish Drama League in Sydney has no
warmer advocate than Beryl Nettleton,
in private life Mrs. D. R. G. Mowbray.
At the meeting called recently in the
Lyceum Club to discuss the British
Drama League movement, Mrs. Mow-
bray, who is a Maorilander, told of the
great impetus it has been, not only to
acting, but to the writing of plays in
Enzed. Mrs. Mowbray is a ballet en-
thusiast and a teacher of the classic
dance in AucKiand. While in Sydney she
was an almost nightly attendant at the
Theatre Royal, and was a pupil of the
graceful Guerard. A Monte Luke
camera caught this glimpse.
The Arts Club got into the swing of
its 1937 musicales at the Australia last
week, newly returned from Europe
Daphne Harpur and Lillian Wilson be-
ing the afternoon’s artists. The overseas
guest of the reception was Lady Mc-
Gowan, whose husband, the head nabob
of Imperial Chemical Industries, drew a
barony in the New Year Honors list.
Dame Mary Cook came to this party and
brought with her Mrs. J. B. Watson, and
the latter and Lady McGowan renewed
an acquaintance that started in school-
days. Premier Stevens’s wife was among
the guests; so was the Julius lady (her
husband represents Imperial Chemicals
in Australia). Mayoress Parkes was a
guest of honor, and over all Mrs.
Florence Taylor presided.
Was it Ananias who started the libel
about Australians preferring to lean up
against verandah posts? Give the girls
and boys of this city an opportunity and
they grasp it with their ears back. Since
the arrival of the Russian Ballet students
of the dance have been taking almost
daily lessons from members of the com-
pany. Many of the girls are in business,
so the lesson is. crammed into the. lunch
hour or after work. Even the enervating
days of February brought no abatement
in their zeal. Some of the youngsters
saved for weeks beforehand, and are
practically permanent gallery-seaters. All
this is in addition to their classes at the
local schools of ballet.
Kathleen Collins, eldest daughter of
artist “Jo” Collins, was among the
adventure-minded who sailed in the Mol-
davia. Besides seeing as much of the
Coronation gaieties as she can, Kathleen
intends to go on with her art studies.
These she commenced at the East Sydney
Technical College, furthered them among
the moderns at the Crowley-Fizelle
school, and then developed a talent for
advertising layout, becoming first lieu-
tenant to father, who directs the Smith
and Julius studio and who in his moments
of recreation is one of Sydney’s best
amateur actors.
Italy’s Consul-General Dr. Vita-Finzi
and his wife sailed for a holiday in their
native land last Monday. With them
went their small sons Ennio and Claudio.
Among other farewells was a cocktail
party at the Italian Club. Gum-leaves
and the, Italian flag decorated the club,
which was crowded with Sydney friends
and compatriots. The Vice-Consular
Vitalis received the guests (he will be
the acting Consul-General), and made
presentations for the company of a foun-
tain-pen to Dr. Vita-Finzi and a per-
fume spray to his wife. Her suit of
white cloth was worn with a hat of
white felt.
If Belgium’s Consul-General Segaert
had not gone in for diplomacy he’d have
made a fine theatrical producer. He has
already presented a list of successes in
aid of French and Belgian causes. At
present he is busy rehearsing “Tovarich,”
a comedy in four acts, by Jacques Deval.
This will make its first Sydney appear-
ance at the Savoy on March 19, when
Mr. Segaert will play the part of Prince
Ouratief, and daughter Mrs. Andre
Brenac will be the Duchess Tatiana
Petrovna. The French Alliance and the
Belgian Benevolent Society will benefit.
The late-afternoon party grows in
popularity. During the summer it seems
to have become Sydney’s one form of
entertainment. America’s Consul-Gen-
eral Pierrepont Moffat and his wife, who
are going on leave, chose the cocktail
hour to bid Sydney friends farewell.
Their home, Greenoaks Cottage, Darling
Point, was radiant with flowers grown
in the gardens about it, and these were
the scene of the party. Mrs. Moffat’s
frock showed a blurred design in pinks,
reds and yellows. The Consul-General
goes back to the U.S.A., but Mrs. Moffat
will take the children, Edith and Peter,
to Tokio, where they will visit Mrs.
Moffat’s parents, the Joseph Clark
Grews, Mr. Grew is the U.S.A. Ambas-
sador to Japan.
A few days ago Howard Hinton, trus-
tee of N. S. Wales Art Gallery, gave
another 40 pictures to the Teachers’ Col-
lege at Armidale, including work from
the brushes of Streeton, Leist, Long,
Norman Carter, Mahony, Will Ashton,
Oswald Brierley, Daryl Lindsay, Bryant,
Muir Auld, Murch, Barron, Sherman
and Stainforth. Howard has clothed the
long corridors of the. college with many
notable examples of this country’s art.
Armidale and the artists are loud in his
praise.
Hundreds of mothers, wives and in-
tending wives have been hovering about
the five floors of the British Industries
Fair. Here for the discerning eye are all
sorts of hints in the way of china, pot-
tery, furnishing fabrics. This writer fol-
lowed Lady Haig and her secretary into
the furnishings section. Like the over-
seas visitor, she found charm in an old-
fashioned sofa, upholstered in white satin,
carrying a design of bunches of deep-
red roses. It is the sort of sofa Disraeli
might have sat on to hatch out his vision
of Victoria as Empress of India.
A blocked linen, with a Grinling Gib-
bons design of old English flowers, is
copied from a bit of the inimitable carv-
ing in St. Paul’s. If you are passionately
Australian your heart will give an extra
beat at sight of the curtain fabrics on
which our own bushland flowers—bottle-
brush, waratah, flannel-flower and orchid
—grow. There are model steamers,
yachts and electric trains, a miniature
land and sea airport and a P. and O.
display, which attract the women, if truth
must be told, in as many numbers as
do the other exhibits, not excepting the
pictures of film favorites.
When Cecily Adkins gave a party to
repatriate friends Bessie Coleman and
Dr. Claire Weekes, it was natural that
the whole company at the Rockfort,
Kirribilli, should be musicians. During
her stay abroad Bessie has been acting
as accompanist to Elizabeth Schumann
and made a record with her. Dr. Weekes
had a successful science career at Syd-
ney Uni., and is now switching over to
music, singing in particular.
The Fellowship of Australian Writers
emerged from its annual meeting and elec-
tion of officers with the same president,
Frank Davison, and the same secretary,
W. E. Fitz Henry. The four vice-presi-
dents are Dame Mary Gilmore, Flora
Eldershaw, Inglis Moore and Arthur
Crocker. Marjorie Quinn is once again
social secretary, and Mrs. B. Berry pub-
licity officer. As an article of faith in
the “luck of the Irish” C. B. Rooney
was made treasurer. Instant increase of
subscriptions is expected.
Four Tasmanian artists put on a show
last week in Bligh-street’s Macquarie
Galleries, o’er which it cast a roseate
glow. This is owing to the presence of
pink house and roof and flower. The
four artists are Amy Kingston, Eileen
Gow, Phyllis Pitman and Robert Mont-
gomery, and their offerings were viewed
with interest when Thea Proctor said the
opening piece. Thea agreed with the
notes she read in that she was a deco-
rative effect in her navy silk suit with its
beige dotted blouse. Her long sheaf of
red and yellow gladioli shining through
cellophane had a lacquered look.
The Snowden lady, cool-looking in
blue and white, introduced the speaker.
Robert Montgomery was the only one
of the four to have a relation among the
visitors. His sister, Mrs. G. F. Richard-
son, came, her blue frock frilled with
white organdie. Her cobalt-blue hat was
banded in white. Ivory-corded silk made
Ruby Rich’s folded toque. A cinnamon-
brown organdie blouse showed under the
coat of her off-white linen suit. With
her were her guests, Mrs. H. Dormer and
daughter Yvonne, fresh from England.
Whatever we may think of a Govern-
ment that forces a “Yes-No” referendum
on us, it is nothing to what the plump
women of an Oriental land must be
thinking of a law that compels them to
become thin. The rajah of that land
likes his Helens of troy rather than ol
avoirdupois, and has issued an order that
no woman in his domain is henceforward
permitted to be fat; rather hard on a
community that has hitherto regarded
curves as the marks of feminine charm.
With the cult of the herring-bone figure
gymnastics have entered the harem.
Probably the roads thither are already
overrun with traders laden with slimming
mixtures and corsets.


If every Wife knew what every Widow knows,
every Married Man would carry the Maximum
Amount of Life Assurance that he (and his
Wife) could buy.
The One Investment that Completes Itself
Illlli
Life Assurance guarantees the delivery of money that time will bring if
you do not live long enough to complete the job.
.
i
m
m
m
m
Calculating the amount of Income his Wife and Family would have to live
on in the event of his early death.
Send your name and address for particulars of the
Latest 15.6% Family
Contracts
providing for Monthly Income for Wife and Family for periods as long as
twenty years after death of assured, the premium for which is very little
greater than for the ordinary Life Policy.
The Mutual Life and Citizens’ Assurance Company Limited
Corner of Castlereagh Street and Martin Place, Sydney
■ ...... x )
FOUNDED IN 1880
Branches throughout Australia, New Zealand, in Canada and Great Britain
Assets Exceed £24,590,000 - - Annual Income Exceeds £3,500,000
Amounts paid to policyholders Exceed £30,000,000


Cuff Link Comforter JSusy Men!
EXTENDED
Not until you wear Stratton’s
Improved Link do you realise
there is such a thing as Cuff
Link comfort. This Link holds
you cuffs neatly and tightly
together. The shirt sleeve pulls
up the arm for a quick wash;
the hand passes in and out of
the cuff when dressing, jno
chain is visible when the link
is closed. Nearly two inches
of stretch available when open.
12 months’ guarantee.
Obtainable at all good stores,
or from
KAINSFORDS, LTD.,
418 Elizabeth St., Sydney.
CLOSED
2/6
6.
IMPROVED
CUFF
LINK
Effective Coverage
of Wellington, the capital
city of New Zealand, is
certain through the
columns of
4 ‘The Evening Post”
which enters 19 out of
every 20 homes in the
city and urban areas.
FIRST IN SALES, IN-
FLUENCE, PRESTIGE
AND IN THE QUAN-
TITY OF LOCAL AND
NATIONAL ADVERTIS-
ING CARRIED.
The Evening Post
(Blundell Bros., Ltd., Props.)
For particulars and rates apply to
any accredited advertising agency.
Melbourne
chatter
Exaggerated shoulders and high waist-
lines were features of the first autumn
dress show of the year, held in belated
summer weather at Cann’s. Most even-
ing coats have descended to the toes, and
dinner gowns are. noticeably demure with
square necks, high across the back of
the shoulders, puff sleeves and gored
skirts. Gone are the days when fur
trimmings were simply collars and cuffs.
Odd bits of pelt stick out like armor
joints over the shoulders. One coat has
a wallaby-pouch bow of fur at the throat
and more oddments scudding down the
sleeves, as if the huntress were emerg-
ing from the jungle with bits of the
chase adhering to her. Masquerading in
the style of an aristocratic ermine cape
which droops at the back to hip-length
is a snow-white wrap of humble hare.
It was not divulged whether the animals
are born white or given chemical treat-
ment.
Bead-trimming is enjoying another cycle
of popularity and is showing a prefer-
ence for being seen twinkling around
shins and ankles on the hems of after-
noon or evening gowns. One black
cocktail frock has upstanding fans of
white bugle-beads perched upon the
shoulders —safe for dancing or for push-
ing through crowds.
The way in which the organising secre-
tary, Mrs. M. M. Phillips, and the col-
lecting committee managed to raise
£6OOO-odd for the Women’s College has
left many people speechless with amaze-
ment, for the appeal was not “popular”
and it was up against the pushing of the
Union House cause among mutual
friends and supporters. The college
has made a modest beginning with
accommodation for 10 students, who
are going into residence almost imme-
diately. Miss S. Williams, who has
had many years of experience in
women’s colleges, came out of retire-
ment and also cut short her trip abroad
by six months in order to get the new
institution in working order as its first
principal.
The idea of the college was born 20
years ago at a meeting convened in the
biology lab. Dr. Georgina Sweet, Mrs.
L. F. Giblin, Mrs. Phillips and Miss Wil-
liams are among those who remember
the occasion. For years Mrs. Phillips
has been doing quiet spade work prepar-
ing people for the collecting campaign,
started in earnest last year at a meeting
with Lady Huntingfield presiding. The
credit sheet discloses the fact that the
college is not only for but has been pro-
vided by women —90 p.c. of the indi-
vidual donations were from women. The
C.W.A. gave £2OO ; other women’s move-
ments, associations connected with girls’
secondary schools and golf associates all
lent a hand. Entertainments raised £3OO.
Among those who wrote large personal
cheques were Mrs. Archie Michaelis,
Mrs. Herbert Brookes, Prof. Skeats and
J. T. Tweddle.
A few days before the Women’s Col-
lege collection committee held its final
meeting the general committee which
had worked for the Christmas fete in aid
of furnishings for the Union House met’
in Melba Hall for its final discussion.
The sum of £lO,OOO was the aim of the
ambitious organisers, and their hopes
were realised through a last-moment
donation of £3432 from Mrs. George
Stevenson, who before her marriage re-
cently was Mrs. Cleve Kidd. The
Christmas fete’s balance sheet shows that
individual stalls took from £202 to
£5BO, so the stall-holders must have been
busy’ beforehand collecting donations, for
the weather turned them down badly,
and attendances suffered through cold,
tempestuous days and rainy nights.
There was no obvious armed guard at
the marriage of Margery Stephens and
Edward Graham Farquharson, of the
Indian Army and the Punjab, but the
guard was never far away, and although
he wore plain clothes there was a re-
volver in his pocket. The reason for the
precautions was the diamond-and-pearl
tiara worn by the bride and lent her by
Mrs. Leonard Lansell, of Chah Singh,
Moulamein (N.S.W.). It was a quiet
wedding, with only a handful of guests.
Dr. Douglas Stephens gave his daughter
away; there were no ’maids, but Dr.
Douglas, jun., was best man. Mrs.
Stephens didn’t go to the church, but
stayed in her flower-decked home to re-
ceive early arrivals. Her elaborate gown
was of heavy crepe vanessa, with a wide
band of green-and-gold lame running
down the front of the tunic. From under
the brim of her black picture hat a long
black tassel dangled to her shoulder. She
wore her fair hair very long.
In the Broothorn portrait is Mrs. W.
Laing-Hay, well-known in Melbourne
before her marriage as Maxime Robert-
son. She returned to Australia last year
on a health trip, and when she sails
for England again in April her parents,
the David Robertsons, will accompany
her. Mrs. Laing-Hay’s only sister is Mrs.
Eric Nettheim, of Sydney.
Last week three young women took
mental doses of sal volatile before sing-
ing for Melba’s granddaughter under the
roof where the verdict of Dame Nellie’s
critical ear used to be nervously awaited
by scores of young students. Jean Love,
who won the Melba Bequest Scholarship
for 1937, and runners-up Elva Blair and
Ada Summers were the three who con-
tributed the afternoon programme when
Mrs. George Armstrong and Pamela
were guests of honor and new students
were made welcome. In the absentee of
Fritz Hart in Honolulu (where he goes
every year to conduct the orchestra),
Harold Elvins made the official speech.
Mrs. Armstrong was handsome under
her large black hat, and wore a gown
of soft Nile-blue over which white birds
winged their way. Pamela, looking
youthfully fresh in her coin-spotted navy
frock and white shark-skin pique coat,
had a congratulatory smile for each of
the singers.
Last week in the Lower Town Hall
the Methodist Inland Mission arranged
a Northern Territory exhibition. An
ambulance truck driven down from “the
Alice” by Padre Griffiths showed marks
of being a hardy warrior. It somehow
got through the rains when the train
was held up for a fortnight: two other
trucks which left at the same time are
still bogged. Among specimens on view
of 40-odd minerals, all of some com-
mercial interest, were a lump of oil shale
which was washed up on the beach of
Arnhem Land, a slug of cassiterite con-
taining 72 p.c. of tin, a specimen of wolf-
ramite and an extraordinary conglomerate
containing felspar, garnet, beryl, mica
and quartz. A stall arranged by General
Mica Supplies Ply., Ltd. showed
nature’s gift to an electrical age—the
mica in its rough state and as it is re-
quired in some electrical appliances, a
non-conductor fourthousandths of an
inch in thickness.
In other parts of the hall were pol-
ished woods and pictures of flourishing
gardens round about the Alice, and or
peanut farms at the Katherine. (A few
years ago these farms were owned by
Europeans and worked by Chinese,
now, in many cases, the order has been
reversed.) Present also were specimens
of coconuts, loofah beans (does every-
body know these old-fashioned back-
scratchers are not sponges?), fleeces or
wool and fresh, juicy grapes. Black
Brother and Sister can make their fingers
spry when they want to, for there was
neat embroidery among the Hermanns-
burg exhibits. Kangaroo mats were also
on view; so was a rock-wallaby rug for
presentation to artist Violet Teague, who
organised a campaign for funds for the
now completed and successful water
supply at the Hermannsburg mission
station. Rex Battarbee’s vivid water-
colors of the Inland decorated the walls,
and there was also an uncanny bit of
painting by the black boy who accom-
panied the artist on his several weeks’
lonely trip outback. Battarbee taught
the lad something of how to mix colors,
but didn’t see his picture until it arrived
in Melbourne a few days ago.
An interesting young woman who
organised a display at the exhibition was
Miss A. T. Goggan, director of General
Mica Supplies, Ltd. By birth Miss
Coggan is English. Her father got an
extensive practical experience of mica in
India. After the war he came, for health
reasons, to Australia, where he explored
the North for mica, accustomed his
young daughter to the outback, and later
taught her to run a factory. He even
took her to board meetings, which she
hated, but, having a business head and
ambitions, she stuck them out, and is
now profiting by the experience. The
infant co. had five setbacks, but it got
on its legs before J. D. Coggan died last
year. Until then it worked its own
mines, 150 miles north-east of Alice
Springs; but labor troubles were so
complicated that the mines are now run
on tribute, the co. buying the mica from
the men.
Victoria is proud of Nancye Wynne,
who, at 20, is ranked as Australia's No.
1 woman tennis-player. Miss Wynne
has been competing in inter-State tennis
for two years. She will have her first
trip to Perth for the Easter tournaments
at King’s Park. In this season’s pro-
gramme she has won three State cham-
pionships and the Australian champion-
ship. Since returning from Sydney she
has been in excellent form for pennant
matches, in which she plays for St.
Kilda. Nancye went to school at
Lauriston, and is the daughter of the
H. M. Wynnes, of Mentone. Broothorn
made the picture.
A grateful patient at the Queen Vic-
toria Hospital recently presented Sister
Steele, who has been for some years
supervisor of the medical and children’s
wards, with a pair of canaries, who sing
to and are much appreciated by the
youngsters. One of the smallest of the
patients who show interest in the song-
sters is a sturdy lad of only four months
whose case is unique. He was born with
six fingers on his left hand. The un-
wanted digit, which grew just below the
thumb, has been removed, and the hand
shows every indication of becoming
normal. One of the women medicoes
who is particularly interested in the ante-
natal department of the hospital is en-
thusiastic about the value of posters, and
has nailed up pictures of succulent vege-
tables on the walls of the waiting-room.
But it takes more than posters to get
some imaginations to work. The
doctor, after talking about the value of
a varied diet and fresh fruit and vege-
tables, advised one of her patients to
“take more colored food” (lettuce, toma-
toes, etc.). The next week the woman s
greeting to her was “I’ve done everything
you told me to, doctor. I’ve had mus-
tard pickles every morning for break-
fast.”
An enterprising young man leaving
Melbourne in March is Myles Eason ;
he is off by cargo ship, via M.L., Panama
and Cuba, to either Florida or New
York. Once in the U.S.A. he is optimis-
tic about having enough pull to get him-
self a job in an aviation co. “to increase
the industry of the country,” and thus
avoid being asked to move out a
money-maker not on the quota. Failing
the aeroplane stunt, Myles will shoulder
his bluey and hitch-hike, to Hollywood.
His assets are youth, hope, some radio
experience and his first professional job
as juvenile lead in this week’s "The
Vinegar Tree.”
Mrs. Fleming-Dunstan and her daugh-
ters Lesley and Valmai are really to sail
at last, in the Romolo on March 3. They
have had their names pencilled for every
Italian ship which sailed during the past
six months. On their previous yisit they
noticed that furniture in Italy is very
expensive, so they are taking some with
them for the apartment they intend to
lease in Naples—Naples because it is
less expensive than Rome and because
in their opinion the Bay is so gloriously
beautiful that it doesn’t matter about the
smells.
If they can obtain an extension of the
lease of their house in Surrey Mrs.
Frankel Cohen and her daughters Val
and Yvonne hope to remain there
through the Coronation, for they are
only 40 miles from Piccadilly. They all
went up to London for the sales, which
the girls found rather amusing, but
which Mrs. Cohen disliked intensely as
“an accumulation of all kinds of rubbish
since 1066.”
Dr. John Dale introduced Viennese
sculptor John Wolfgang Elischer, who
read a very complimentary opening
speech—an achievement from one who
three months ago could scarcely order a
meal in English. Among others present
at the opening of what is our first art
show of the year were local authoress
Capel Boake (otherwise Doris Kerr),
Mrs. Kingsley Henderson, Mrs. Harry
Allen, Rosemary and Margaret Kenny
and L. R. Hume, who has leanings
towards Oriental arts and has been suc-
cessful at reproducing Japanese prints.
Zelma Anderson, who looks after the
library at the Commonwealth Bank, is
leaving her filing system of the staffs
literary tastes in other hands and is ofl
on a year’s leave. Ever since she
thought of visiting Europe Miss Ander-
son has made a habit of going down to
Victoria Docks to examine from bow to
stern ships that sailed under practically
every foreign flag. Holland was the
only one she missed, but it is a Dutch
ship on which she is travelling—the
Meliskirk, leaving on March 9.
Melbourne night-owls may henceforth
stray as far as they like, for all-night
trams were introduced on Sunday, the
14th. Services are hourly or half-hourly,
drivers are also conductors, and fares are
only a little higher than normal. Mel-
bourne taxis, though they have become
more reasonable in the last two years,
still charge a lot more than in Sydney.


PORTABLE SHORT-
WAVE THERAPY.
Specially designed Short-wave
unit, with large output. Com-
pact, light and portable—most
suitable for the General Practi-
tioner.
Medical Practitioners interested
in this unit, watch for the
Kingsley Touring Research
Van at present touring Vic-
toria.
All particulars from —
Kingsley Teleradio
Constructions Pty M Ltd.
249-51 Spring Street,
Melbourne C. 1, Vic.
*SILVER
£i>G£"
TRADE £f MARK REGISTERED
THE RAYBESTOS CO.
BRA KB
LINING
Is Driving a Car a Pleasure ?
IT certainly is not unless you have unlimited confidence in your
brakes and the feeling that your clutch is right.
There are many different “RAYBESTOS” products for different
types of brakes and clutches, each constructed to add to your
pleasure and comfort whilst motoring.
See that your car is fitted with the right type of material, and insist
on “RAYBESTOS” BRAKE LININGS AND CLUTCH FACINGS.
Raybestos-Belaco Ltd., London, England.
Factory Rep : John Arnold, G.P.O. Box 71, Melbourne, Via
FOR FAULTLESS
IGNITION
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
“Captain Pintle”: Cooktown is a
difficult place for mariners. A flock of
flying-foxes recently chose the upper
leading light as a night-club, and boats
have to be sent out to scare, them off
from obscuring the gleam. Their usual
base is in a near-by mangrove swamp,
but local opinion considers that the poor
cows are trying to get warm in the un-
seasonably cool weather. In former days
abos. were wont to steal the light oil,
with resultant danger to navigation. It
was colza oil, and made an excellent
repellent for mosquitoes and sandflies, in
addition to imparting a skin-gloss which
enhanced sex appeal. But the most im-
posing marine mishap which Cooktown
ever experienced was when the ; late
Captain W. C. Thompson fell over a
large crocodile that was eating a goat
just outside the Shire Council offices in
the early hours of the morning. The
resultant explosion awoke all Cooktown,
and is said to have been heard at Lizard
Island.
'J*
“Bull-ant Bill”: Tewantin, on Noosa
(Q.), 100 miles or so north of Brisbane,
appears to breed a particularly capable
variety of Australian youngster. Last
year its one small State school sent up
eight youngsters for Government scholar-
ships, and collected six of them in State
wide competition. The school tennis
club played through the year undefeated.
The boys’ swimming team won the
Nissen Cup for the fourth year in suc-
cession against all Queensland primary
schools. The girls’ swimming team won
the “Courier-Mail” Cup for the second
time, also against State-wide primary
school competition; and some of the
individual efforts seem to indicate that
at least one outstanding new girt-
swimmer is likely to show up shortly for
Australasian and Olympic honors.
* * * *
“Hard Shell”: Wondai, a rich dairy-
ing town in the peanut belt of Queens-
land, has a hospital and a good surgeon
or so, and seems to need them. The
other day, of 43 patients in the hospital,
18 had come in for appendicitis opera-
tions. Then two nurses also went down
to it with the same trouble, and were
operated on.
* * * *
“Zedo”: Though blind, young Mercy
Griffin, a Central Queenslander, early
showed herself to be the makings of a
poetess, a musician and a student. A
State scholarship led her to Brisbane
High School, and at her university junior
examination she took “As” in four sub-
jects and won the Brunton Stephens
essay competition, which is always well
contested. In her senior examination
she had “A” passes in four subjects and
matriculated. Queensland Government
has given her a special scholarship to
the University, and the Society for the
blind is adding £lOO a year for five years
to meet board and tuition fees.
* * * *
“X.T.”: Brisbane’s lady astronomer,
Mrs. Dafter, of Northgate, has been
elected a Fellow of the Royal Astro-
nomical Society on the nomination of
the Director of Cambridge Solar Physics
Observatory. Mrs. Dafter has the pecu-
liar type of vision which goes to make
an astronomical explorer, and she has
added two stars to the celestial map, be-
sides obtaining valuable data on light
variation, shortly to be printed in Eng-
land by the R.A.S.
* * * *
“Fi-fa”: One of the most beautiful
little churches in Australia looks over
the blue waters of Moreton Bay from a
ridge at Sandgate (Q.). It was built be-
side a monument erected to the memory
of Robert Travers Atkin, wjjo died, aged
31, in 1872, after a useful Queensland
career as Parliamentarian, journalist and
volunteer, recorded on the stone in the
ornate fashion of the day. Irish-born,
R. T. Atkin came to Queensland in
search of health, as did a sister who died
four years later, also of consumption.
His son, James Richard Atkin, born in
Brisbane in 1867, married the eldest
daughter of William Hemmant, a long-
ago Treasurer of Queensland, whose
name is recorded in a Brisbane suburb.
James Richard Atkin had a distinguished
English legal career as a Lord of Appeal
and P.C., and became Baron Atkin of
Aberdovey. He has recently had his
father’s monument restored and mem-
orial carvings by Daphne Mayo erected
in the church.
* * * *
“Emelar”: Travelling on the north-
eastern coast I asked a resident of Bun-
daberg about the summer climate. He
“ Cripes , if Dulcie don't shift soon Well 'ace t' find another pitch!"
admitted it was hottish, but nothing to
what they got at Mackay. A Mackay
man said: “Hot here in summer?
Middling—cool enough where I live.
Now at Rockhampton it’s awful.” At
Rocky I learned that mostly the nights
are pleasant, and the people there get a
lot of satisfaction out of pitying the
denizens of Townsville —a fellow from
there, they told me, on arriving at Hades
asked for blankets. A Townsville man
said he simply could not and would not
try to live at Cairns, while the Cairns
population is unanimous in feeling sorry
for the poor beggars out west. In Bris-
bane the temperature was just over 90,
with 58 per cent, humidity. “Beastly
hot day,” I said to a man on the tram.
“Hot?” he said. “Not at all. I’ve lived
for five years at Thursday Island, and I
wish I was going back. This is too cold
for me.”
"Australia Jane's" Budget
Vendors of farewell streamers must
be reaping a harvest. Every overseas
liner, every mail train south carries its
Queensland contingent bound for
London or America.
R. M. King and his wife have booked
for London, but will not sail until later.
They have a host of friends and rela-
tives on the other side. Mrs. King’s
brother —one of the well-known pas-
toralist family, the. Hewsons —lives in
the Channel Islands. Eileen King,
R.M.’s youngest sister, who collected a
decoration when she was a nurse at the
war —she was wounded rescuing casual-
ties from a shelled clearing station —left
Melbourne a fortnight ago with a batch
of war sisters who are to have a look
at the big doings in London.
Helen Street is going with her parents
to U.S.A., where she is to marry, and
a lot of parties are in the offing for her.
Y.A.L. girls are giving one, students of
Thelma Robertson’s dancing academy,
where she trained, another, and the
Jensen girls, Thyra and Viola, are
arranging another. Helen met her hus-
band-to-be when he came over from
U.S.A. with a party of young Ameri-
cans. The wedding day is fixed for
June. The lucky man is A. Manning
Gibson, of Galveston, Texas.
Oldsters in Brisbane were excited to
hear that Alan Marshal had been chosen
to play the second big role in “Rupert
of Hentzau.” Alan is a nephew of the
Queensland cricketer of the same name
who was killed on Gallipoli, and is the
son of May Marshal (who took the
family name of Irby when she went on
the stage) and Leonard Willey, a hand-
some, dark-eyed young man who was
with J.C.W. years ago. The Willey pair
migrated to Hollywood. Alan was born
in Brisbane, and recent photographs
show that he has inherited the good
looks of both parents.
Patricia and Joan Maguire are off to
Hollywood in March, to stay with sister
Mary, who is taking a house while they
are with her. The girls are. gleefully
gathering up pretties for the trip, and are
to be entertained at several farewell par-
ties in March.
Dr. and Mrs. H. L. Hawthorn, of
Dalby, will have a party of girls under
their wing when they sail for Asia
aboard the Nieuw Zeeland. Their three
daughters, Mary, Betty and Patricia, are
going with them, and Elizabeth Edwards,
of Brisbane, is also in the party. Eliza-
beth is a fair, pretty girl, very like, her
mother, who was the younger daughter
of Mrs. J. J. Buchanan.
Mrs. A. S. Huybers decided to keep
open house for her friends for a whole
afternoon and evening before leaving by
the Orion for England. Over 400
people came to say bon voyage and safe
return, and tea, coffee and cocktails were
on tap from 3 p.m. until midnight. The
dahlias which beautified the reception-
rooms came from the Ascot State school
gardens* and were a farewell gesture
from headmaster Henderson.
Ruby and Margaret Kerr were host-
esses at a farewell party at Rowe’s in
honor of Mrs. R. J. Morris and Mrs. L.
Steele, who are going to Japan.
Gertie and Flora McLeod were
among the streamer-holders on deck
when the Orion dropped down river for
London. Gertrude has been hon. sec.
of the associates of the Indooroopilly
Golf Club for seven years, and president
of the Golf Union. The biggest pre-
sailing party was at the Indooroopilly
golfhouse, where 18 hostesses arranged
a farewell.
Mrs. Graeme Gibson, who left Syd-
ney by the Aorangi en route to her home
and husband in Canada, took back with
her two or three pictures by Queensland
artists. Before she left for Sydney the
Ranald Camerons, brother and sister-in-
law, gave a party for her at their home
at Ascot, and in the morning there was
a gathering of friends at the Gresham.
For the second time in the legal his-
tory of Queensland a girl is holding
down the job of associate to a Judge.
Mary Webb began her duties with her
father, Justice Webb, with a long day
in the Industrial Court. Clare Macros-
san (now Mrs. Tom
Curnow, of Mel-
bourne) was for a
time associate to her
father, Justice
Macro ssaii. Miss
Webb, a very pretty
girl and well pro-
vided with grey
matter, has a flair
for legal technicali-
ties.
Mrs. J. R. Clough,
who now lives in
W.A., was guest at
a morning-tea at
Willard House,
arranged by the
president and com-
mittee of the
W.C.T.U., of which
body she formerly
was State vice-presi-
dent. There were
about 40 guests,
among them Mrs.
Clough’s daughter,
Mrs. Harper, of
Rockhampton, and her daughters-in-law,
Mrs. Norman Clough and Mrs. Eric
Clough.
A. C. Bastick arrived to keep his altar
date with Edith McHale wearing several
half-healed scars on his face. He was
lucky to escape with so few, as he had
been in a nasty motor accident a few
days before the wedding, and had to
have stitches in one eyelid and plaster
on the chin to make him presentable.
The pair left by the Orion for England
and the Continent, and before sailing
were guests at a dance and bridge party
at the Belle Vue, hostessed by the L. G.
Olsens.
Binna Addy, the Indian singer, was a
picturesque figure in her national cos-
tume at the party given for her by Mrs.
Walter Savage, president of the board
of directors of the Y.W.C.A. The floral
decorations were in tones of apricot and
gold, which matched the costume of the
guest. The singer had some interesting
things to say about her own country.
Ray Moni, one of Brisbane’s prettiest
girls, has announced her engagement to
Gurney Sale. There will be a brisk
round of pre-wedding affairs, for the
wedding bells probably will ring in
March.


Sparkling
Health!
mm
' > v
» !>•
You
also
can be
Happy and Well
• • •
To be well is to be happy; and to take
Cream of Yeast is to be well! See, when
you take this modern remedy, how
aches and pains vanish; how weariness
departs; how appetite improves, and
how the joy of life comes back! Cream
of Yeast is the world’s greatest tonic
and invigorator, conveniently available
to all. Cream of Yeast makes you feel
better and look better in a few minutes
— it’s a wonderful lightning pick-me-
up! Never disappoints; forms no habit;
no harmful drug-content. Let Cream
of Yeast improve your health at once.
All chemists and stores sell it—24 Tab-
lets 1/11, 48 for 3/6, 125 for 5/9. Satis-
faction or money back guaranteed.
Yomr Health and Spirite will Quickly Improve
r
MAKES YOU FEEL BETTER AND
BRIGHTER IN A FEW MINUTES !
Personal and Missing Friends.
MACGREGOR—Heirs Wanted.
INFORMATION is desired by the subscribers
as to the heirs and next-of-kin of DR.
GEORGE McGREGOR (or MacGregor), son
of Duncan McGregor, Shoemaker, who re-
sided at Whitliburn, Largs, Scotland, and Agnes
Leishman or McGregor, his wife. Dr. George
McGregor resided at Stafford Place, New City
Road, Glasgow, Scotland, and died in 1871.
His widow and daughter latterly resided in
Largs, Ayrshire.
R. & J. M. HILL BROWN & CO.,
41 West George Street, Glasgow.
WILLIS, Robert Henry, last heard of at 15
Dover Street, Richmond, Melbourne. His
brother, William Arthur Willis, 40 Union Road,
Clapham, London, 5.W.4, would be pleased to
hear from him.
Australia's Leading Financial Journal.
February Issue Now on Sale.
OVERSEAS AND HOME BORROWING.
INVESTMENTS ANALYSED.
OUTLOOK FOR RUBBER.
METALS.
PRICE 2/- PER COPY, OR £l/216 PER ANNUM POSTED.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., 252 George Street, Sydney, and all States.
THE LITTLE SISTERS.
WESTRALIA.
„ , , . . Uo , rwiAdnp Coif
Though dancers at .the Cottesloe Golf
Club hop were permitted to wear mtor-
mal dress because of the heat very few
availed themselves o e p i ,
many of the men sported tiopica mess
jackets and women avoided hot-100 mg
unrelieved black. Mrs. B. Meecham pre-
sided over the doings in pastel taffetas
striped diagonally with silver threa .
Captain Mrs. J. F. MacMillan drippet
honey-hued Chantilly lace, and Mrs. b.
Forman carried out secretarial duties in
blue-and-pink floral Liberty crepes. Mrs.
A. W. Jacoby tumbled ripe apricots on her
black chiffon, a white pique collar out-
lined the neck of Mrs. Norman Brear-
ley’s black-and-white checked silks, an
Mrs. L. Tansing’s lilac crepes were
misted by her overdress of blue net.
Mollie Hall, only daughter of the
J L Halls of Wagin and John Leonard
Hornsby, of Ballaying, were made one
of ot a Lwc virt Pprfh I one snikes
at St. Andrews kirk, Perth Long spikes
of golden S'adtoh nestled against the
pleated panels of the brides parchment
crepe Roubaix, which was flanked with
pleated sleeves and topped with soft
beige felt. Chioe Hornby, the lone at-
tendant, was draped with china-blue
filmy silk, patterned with pintucks on
the bodice and sleeves and finished at
the throat with a matching flower spray,
The Manoora carried the couple away
to ’moon in Melbourne.
At St. Patrick's, West Perth, - Thela
Richards, well known in dancing and
elocutionary circles, exchanged vows
with Victor Courtney, managing editor
of Perth “Sunday Times.” Only intimate
friends and members of the family were
present. The newly-weds will sail from
Fremantle in the Tudor on Friday,
bound for London and Coronation. A
Continent and ys A is
follow.
increased per .
ceptibly on the day of the Montgomery-
jjouness we( Jding. Helen Joyce, the F. H.
s ounesses ’ eldest daughter, was an all-
wbjte bride, even to the sheaf of dahlias,
jj £r Ghantilly laces started from a Peter
p an co ij ar> branched off into wide
s i eeves an d undulated into a long train
which was hdd by little Wen dy Tucker.
j£ er two ’maids. Hazel Butterick and
jyj ar g are j Montgomery, were in old-gold
Bat cr gp e? cu t w ffh crossover bodice,
Gibson sleeves and fitting skirts.
The w H Vincents, Peppermint
Grove, invited 60 guests to meet Freda
p aton? wbo shared a flat with Helen
Vincent while the daughter of the house
studied music in London. The long be-
windowed music-room was arranged for
dancing, and the hall and dtnmg-room
housed refreshments. Mrs. Vincent s
o£ chiffon flowers ma(ched th<J
. design on her b | ack ninon>
» ( of hol , or - s ce llophane glass was
bustled over lemon satin and agog with
and Helen attached up-and-down
£ rd j s tQ her sashed violet satins. Two
ot b er daughters assisted with the doings
—Lesley, in scalloped white georgette
folded into ropes, and Eila in duck-egg-
blue cloque wrought with silver.
After 12 months as guests of the Val
Abbotts, Mrs. Arthur Abbott and daugh-
ter Margaret did a round of farewell
parties before returning to their home
i n England. The largest of the series was
Mrs. Val Abbott’s tea-party at her home
i n Mount-street, where, in floral silk
surcharged with navy chiffon, she wel-
corned some 70 guests. Another shivoo.
at which Margaret co-starred with Mary
Cox, was given by Mrs. A. E. Hall and
Mrs. T. G. Kitching at the Karrakatta
Club. This was mainly a Girl Guide
affair, for both guests hold commissions
in the association and intend gaining
further experience abroad.
Excitement of the moment is the an-
nouncement of the engagement of Lud
Mayor J. J. Poynton to Nina, daughter
of the H. B. Jacksons, of Cottesloe. The
bride-elect is a versatile young woman
with a literary bent. Golf and tennis are
her main outdoor sports, and she does a
bit of freelance journalism. The mar-
riage will take place in time for the
couple to set off for England and the
Coronation.
The cyclone in the north blew along
the news of the engagement of Beryl
Kopke, of Yaringa station, to Leslie Sel-
lenger, of Carnarvon.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
The Clare picnic race-meeting came
off in sultry weather, with a high wind
and some showers thrown in, but this did
not lessen attendance. Mrs. D. Mcßae
Wood, wife of the club president, sported
a navy boucle suit, with white vandyked
collar of pique and navy Breton straw
hat. Mrs. Pat Colley chose a wine-toned
ensemble and straw hat to match. Mrs.
Geoffrey Wien-Smith’s powder-blue and
white frisca cloth swagger suit went with
a blue stitched silk hat. Everyone in
Clare seemed to have a house-party,
friends coming in from surrounding dis-
tricts as well as from the city.
The first big dance of the year was the
Keswick and Wayville Tennis Club’s
cabaret affair, which fell on an ideal
night. Ten of the club’s 14 grass courts
were thrown into one for the occasion,
and festooned with colored lights, an
orchestra from the Palais Royal playing
at one end and large amplifiers carrying
music to the rest. There was a roll-up
of about 500.
Mrs. S. J. Jacobs, of Glenelg, who is
leaving to reside in Vic., was entertained
by the Adelaide branch of the Old
Scholars’ Association of the Presbyterian
College (Melbourne) at morning-tea at
the Wentworth. Mrs. Jacobs was the
first president of the Adelaide branch, and
was also among the first pupils of the
P.L.C. Farewell good wishes were ex-
pressed by the Symon lady and the secre-
tary (Mrs. R. C. Bassett).
Henry Newland and his lady have
issued invitations for the marriage of
their daughter Mollie to Andrew Gosse-
Hay on March 31.
Arthur E. Lavers, of Brisbane, younger
son of Prof, and Mrs. S. Gordon Lavers,
of Hunter’s Hill, Sydney, was married at
St. Cuthbert’s, Prospect, to Guli, elder
daughter of the N. M. Hack couple, of
Gilberton. The bride’s magnolia satin
had a top-dressing of lace in the same
shade, and she wore a lace veil that has
been in the family for hundreds of
years. Bride’s sister Guelda ’maided in a
period frock of cream net veiling pale-
pink tulle, with full skirt, tight bodice
and small puffed sleeves.
Visiting Adelaide is Dr. Roberta Jull,
a delegate to the University Conference.
Dr. Jull’s daughter is the wife of Geof-
frey Drake-Brockman, a brother of Mrs.
Buffer Murphy. Dr. Jull, who has been
a member of the senate of the Perth
Uni. for 23 years, gave up her medical
practice several years ago.
Mrs. Albyn Rankine, Millswood, gave
a farewell cocktail party for Dr. Gerald
Gregerson, who left in the Oronsay to
study in London and Vienna. Frank
Downer, also bound for England in the
same ship, shared in the good wishes for
a safe and pleasant voyage. Others who
sailed in the Oronsay, but only as far as
Ceylon, were George Ritchie and his
lady, with daughter Isabel.
The P. W. Vaughans, one time resi-
dents of Adelaide, passed through in the
Oronsay, bound for England. They
came up to the city and had morning-
tea with Mrs. H. S. Cowan and luncheon
with Mrs. A. W. Jolly, who? had invited
old friends to meet the travellers.
TASMANIA.
For the Hobart Hospital Ball the
Continental was crowded. The delegates
to the Nat. Health and Medical Research
Council were still on tap, and, of course,
stood high in the list of invitations.
Dame Mary Hughes wore plain black
satin, with pink carnations as a relief.
Hobart’s Lady Mayoress was also in
black.
Dr. Bruce Hamilton’s housewarming
was a gay affair. The bachelor medico
has built a delightful home in Sandy Bay,
and he and his mother invited to the party
many friends and also the visiting dele-
gates to the Nat. Health and Medical Re-
search Council. Dr. Bert Hiller and his
prospective bride were guests. The big
entrance hall was cleared for dancing,
and those who wished to played bridge
or strolled on the flagged terrace. Mrs.
Hamilton, helping her son receive, wore
black with a spray of pink carnations on
the shoulder.
At the Launceston Racing Club’s at-
home vice-president Cecil Ryan and Mrs.
Ryan did the honors, the president, Dr.
Ramsay, being on the sick list. His Ex.
and Lady Clark were among the guests.
The billiard-room provided all sorts of
gadgets for amusing people who didn’t
want to dance or play bridge, and the
garden was lit with festoons of electric
lamps.
Barbara C. Nairne-Butler came down
the aisle of St. David’s as Mrs. W. V.
Teniswood in a frock of magnolia bro-
cade. Her veil was of French blonde,
over 100 years old, a family heirloom.
A fuller veil of tulle, descending from a
wreath of orange-blossoms, was worn
over the lace. Mary, the bride’s sister,
’maided in nattier-blue crepe with a silver
lame sash, and a picture hat in blue and
silver.
Betty Hudspeth, eldest daughter of the
Keate Hudspeths, Queenstown, and
Stuart Pullar, Essendon (Vic.), announce
their engagement. Norah, younger
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. H. J. James,
Fisher’s-avenue, Sandy Bay, and R. V.
Giblin, Belterive, are also entrants for the
matrimonial stakes.
Mrs. R. B. Lewis (Lindsay Clark that
was), who has been spending the summer
with her people at Bifrons Court, Laun-
ceston, has returned to her home in
Singapore with her two youngsters.
Margaret Henry (Sandy Bay) was a
proud girl when the results of the “Learn
to Fly” scholarship came out. She found
herself first out of 108 competitors, live
of them women.


THE EMPRESS OF BRITAIN
CUTS 2 DAYS
OFF THE
ATLANTIC CROSSINC
f
V
c
wKk
Two days’ sheltered sailing down the
picturesque St. Lawrence Seaway
before reaching the open Atlantic.
Novel shipboard amusements . . . deck
sports.. plus Canadian Pacific comfort,
cuisine and personal service. Details
from any Tourist Booking Agency,
OR
IVGrid’s Greatest Travel System**
59 WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE
247 GEORGE STREET - SYDNEY
Canadian Pacific Railway Company,
Incorporated in Canada.
“THE AGE”
Established 1854.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
“The Age” is a household publication whose
subscribers welcome its receipt, depending upon
its news columns for the accurate information
which day by day covers the broadest passible
survey of the world’s happenings, and upon
its advertising columns to bring to their
attention that which is required in their
home or business life.
BECOME A SUBSCRIBER.
You will find “The Age” a congenial news-
paper, with an atmosphere of individual and
personal appeal.
Price lid. per copy at all newsagents and
bookstalls, or 12/- per quarter post free
within the Commonwealth.
“THE AGE” FOR ADVERTISING.
Publishes about 1,000,000
Advertisements Annually.
Advertising rates on application to the principal
Advertising Service Agents in all States or—
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 117 Pitt Street.
London Office: 3 Temple Avenue.
IS YOUR
ADVERTISING CAMPAIGN
IN
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
SUCCESSFUL?
If not, get in touch with the
Perth’s Leading Weekly—the
Journal with the
HOME CIRCULATION.
Sydney Representative:
HAL J. JOHNSTONE,
Wingello House, Angel Place.
Melbourne Representative:
MERVYN S. ALLAN,
368 Collins Street.
Fly SHEETS.
WHITE
16/6
.l
BLUE
18/9
Post 2/- N.S.W.; 3/6 Q'land and Vic.
Made in Light', Cool, yet Strong
Netting with Substantial Fringe.
WHIPS
No. 14—16-plait Handle, 6ft. x 12-
plait thong 34/6
No. 15 16-plait Handle, 7ft. x 12-
plait Thong 36/9
No. 16 16-plait Handle, Bft. x 12-
plait Thong 39/-
Post 1/3 N.S.W.; 2/- Q’land and Vic.
WRITE FOR 100-PAGE SADDLERY
CATALOGUE.
WALTHERt STEVENSON m>
39S CEORCE ST. SYDNEY
The Long White Cloud
The Labor Triers
Whatever criticism might be levelled
at the Savage Government—and there
is plenty—Maoriland is at least getting
action for its money. And never a week
passes but some Minister or other hints
of more “investigation” and further
“remedial legislation.”
They say they intend currycombing
horseracing; local bodies reluctant to
sign away their individual identities are
to be pushed into amalgamation ; trans-
port is to be more effectively “co-ordi-
nated” ; national broadcasting hopes to
provide better news services as well as
more culture ; even the ticklish question
of licensing reform is “due for con-
sideration.” And so on.
Some of these airy Ministerial pro-
posals touch problems that should have
been solved by previous Governments but
which were inevitably sidestepped. For
instance, any licensing reform will make
enemies; but Maoriland wants a more
rational distribution of hotel licenses just
as much as N. S. Wales. Further, for a
million and a half people, M.L. has far
too many local bodies. Promise of more
radio “news” is explained by Labor’s
lack of a daily paper.
Transport “co-ordination” is a threat
of a different color ; linked with Semple
appeals for more railway support, it
smells of another smack at private road-
haulers. A Government big enough to
contemplate licensing reform seriously
should be big enough to see beyond its
ancient railways.
“Kiwit”: Parliamentary Under-Secre-
tary Lee, himself an author, suggests that
the Savage Government should appoint
an editorial board of three to write the
history of Maoriland’s provinces. The
idea comes at a good time—Maoriland
has the writers, and it still has a sprinkling
of old men and women whose first-hand
knowledge of early happenings could
breathe some life into the. piles of rat-
eaten historical documents. James
Cowan, a prolific writer of Maoriland
history, particularly that of its natives,
is still here to advise and guide ; Alan
Mulgan, an experienced journalist and
able writer, could plan the job and hand
portions of it over to the imaginative
hands of younger people like John
Guthrie and Robin Hyde. As Mr. Lee
says, they would need time and good
pay—but I, for one, would order my
copies now!
* * * *
“Motu”: Stewart Islanders opened
their oyster season with good results;
they found the beds in excellent condi-
tion and the Invercargill Conciliation
Council reasonably sympathetic towards
their application for an award. More
than a few Australian Rugby Union foot-
ballers are convinced that workers in the
oyster trade deserve part of the credit for
Southland’s good record against touring
teams, and that they have the moral sup-
port of the sporting public in their nego-
tiations for better pay. With the Spring-
boks due this winter, Southland must
have plentiful supplies for preliminary
oyster hospitality. A trade “strike”
would cost the province its traditional
Rugby Park advantage!
“Cluny”: When Margaret Macpher-
son was helping the late Col. Allen Bell
to produce his Kaitaia paper she found
that her son Hamish could draw. He
studied in Auckland, Was sent on to
London, and a few weeks ago won the
200-guinea Senior City of London Prize
for Sculpture. It didn’t take, young Mac-
pherson’s originality long to win him
attention in the city where, years before,
his mother followed Mrs. Pankhurst.
Some of the giant Queen Mary’s modern
decorative panels were done by Mac-
pherson ; London connoisseurs—for
example, Aldous Huxley’s wife and the
architect Oliver Hill —grabbed examples
of his work as soon as Epstein began to
display some, interest. Two pieces,
carved in wood, have travelled nearly
back to Maoriland. One of Macpher-
son’s countrymen, now in Melbourne,
has a snarling feline head serving as a
paperweight and a startling reminder of
work waiting attention. Another Mel-
bourne man has an attractive Macpher-
son woman —in wood —but she ends
above the knees and is coy without arms
or head. Both these pieces were acquired
in London in 1935 by a Bulletin col-
“See a lion come this Way ?”
lector. Macpherson is one of the young
moderns whom London calls The Four
Sculptors.
* # $ *
“Korero”: Potaka, the Maori airman
who crashed a ’plane in the Kaimanawas
(B. 20/l/’37), won’t be doing any more
piloting for a year ; the subsequent in-
quiry disqualified him for that period as
well as fined him the salvage cost. The
machine was engaged to fly from Wan-
ganui to Palmerston North, but Potaka's
forced landing occurred beyond that
limit. Further, the ground engineer who
inspected the crippled ’plane where
Potaka brought it down could find no-
thing wrong with the engine—except that
it was switched off. An aviation theory
is that the pilot caught the switch in his
sleeve and accidentally turned it; with an
engine coughing out over rough country
there wouldn’t be much time for any-
thing but choosing a likely landing place.
Anyhow, Potaka still has good cause to
grin ; he came out of it alive, and there
aren’t many spots in the Kaimanawas
where it is possible to bring a machine
down with reasonable chance of living
to talk about it.
* * * *
“Xo”: Recent issues of the Christ-
church “Press” contained pars, relating
to the prominence given Maoriland
events in Australian newspapers, and to
the remarks of a Maoriland politician
who believes Australian papers chase sen-
sations and are of a lower standard than
Maoriland sheets. In recent months
Maoriland’s best publicity has been con-
tained in the interviews given by return-
ing Australian politicians who have had
good things to say about the Savage Gov-
ernment and its sincerity. Parish-pump
news from Maoriland cannot hope for
publication in Sydney and Melbourne
dailies, the population of each city not
being much less than the whole of
Maoriland. Auckland’s stay-in strike, the
wreck of the Rangi and the tastes of
North Auckland’s Maori booze artists
earned fairly prominent mention for ob-
vious news reasons —but the differences
in news presentation mentioned by that
Maoriland M.P. are just another result
of population differences. Someone
should tell him there is a fair percentage
of Maorilanders on the sub-editorial
staffs of most big Australian dailies.
jjs -i- *;»
“Cluny”: Australia and Maoriland
are “making the news” in American
theatres and periodical magazines.
Grantland Rice is sending a cameraman
to see Australian sport; the Warners
have a feature man doing a short color
film of Maoriland for world release ; and
contributors to American national maga-
zines who were recently imported by
Australia to collect local color found
time to “do” Maoriland as well. Aus-
tralia must have indulged in a quiet
smile when the cables remarked that the
man leading the American shipping strike
—which undoubtedly upset the plans of
many potential tourists —was himself an
Australian! Anyway, he got industrial
Australia into overseas headlines, and if
stay-in strikes were still American news
Maoriland must have got a par. when
its freezing workers bedded down in
Auckland. Advertising men have a sales’
apology that any publicity is good.
* * * *
“Fergus”: Competition is always valu-
able, but the Maoriland radio promise to
import overseas artists (B. 17/2/’37) and
let them “play or sing or talk in halls to
which the public will have admission at
a reasonable charge” means that the
State is to follow an Australian example
and enter the theatre business. In recent
years most trans-Tasman flesh-and-blood
theatre fare has been provided by J. C.
Williamson. Still “the Firm,” which has
already protested against the A.B.C. prac-
tice, should have little cause to worry.
There is a vital difference between suc-
cessful stage and radio presentations;
combination performances cannot wholly
satisfy the radio listener or the theatre
fan.
* * * *
“Mak”: Maoriland sportsmen and
aviators, particularly those in Taranaki,
must be cursing Sydney’s business attrac-
tions. S. E. Nielson, of New Plymouth,
is following Hawera’s W. G. Walkley over
the Tasman to take a place in N. S.
Wales’s commercial
world. Nielson in the
north of the province
and Walkley in the
south guided the fal-
tering steps of local
aero clubs from 1929 ;
between them, they
cajoled clubs on the
west coast' of the
North Island into forming the fed-
eration which now controls club fly-
ing from Mokau River down to the
Wanganui. Nielson crossed the Tas-
man with Kingsford Smith in the
Southern Cross in 1933, and landed
on the New Plymouth ’drome, which
he later persuaded the town to take
over and turn into a modern airport.
Both men had motoring interests,
but, where Walkley was sec. of the
S. Taranaki Automobile Association
and a North Island Motor Union
boss, Nielson preferred driving to
administration. Latter likes a fast
car nearly as much as Rugby Union
football —and he has been the
Taranaki Union’s secretary for years.
Walkley left Maoriland a year ago
and Nielson leaves in April; both
are accountant-secretaries.
“D.N.”: Maoris are very much like
white people, and not all of them have
the staying power to become successful
in pakeha pursuits (B. 17/2/’37). Maori
Bishop Bennett, referring to recent dis-
closures of drunken native poverty, says
“people make the mistake of treat-
ing all Maoris as adults when, in fact,
many of them are. still children; the
pakeha is 2000 years old, and the Maori
only 100 years.” But the Maori is learn-
ing. A Native Land Court Judge in the
South Island says the natives were
heavier drinkers 15 years ago than they
are to-day ; after big royalty payouts they
would go on roaring sprees until their
cash was dissipated. Bishop Bennett be-
lieves many of his people still require
organising and controlling if they are to
fill useful places in the modern scheme
of affairs: whites pay Maoris the tribute
of treating them as equals, but it is not
always good for them. A considered
judgment that speaks volumes for the
understanding and intelligence of Maoris
who become leaders.


£
£
u
4?
o
>*
Id
%
THE NEWEST
MOST AMAZING
DEVELOPMENT IN
radio... The New
Air Cell Receiver!
*
y
* LUXURY RADIO FOR THE COUNTRY BY
MEANS OF THE EVEREADY
.
I
Air Cell
THE EVEREADY Air Cell does away for
ever with the nuisance and expense of
accumulator recharging and rechanging.
Over 1,000 service hours can be obtained
from an EVEREADY Air Cell; think what
this means—at three hours per day, every
day, you have over a year's supply of "A"
current.
The EVEREADY Air Cell gives a minimum
of 1,000 hours' service whether used con-
tinuously or at infrequent intervals over a
lengthy period; it delivers constant voltage
and prevents valve "burn outs" due to
over voltaging.
The EVEREADY Air Cell is not an experi-
ment; it has already been tried and proved
in America, where this year twenty-six
radio manufacturers are building 1937
model Air Cell Receivers.
Watch its progress ! Air Cell Radio is the
solution of Australia’s country radio problem
EVER READY CO, (AUST.) LTD., SYDNEY
RADiOKES
VIBRATOR
Radiokes PERFECTED Vibrator—easy to iustal—
marvellously economical —100% satisfactory. Saves
you money on batteries. Suitable for ANY battery
set. £6/6/-. Voltage Divider Unit, 15/.,
Write to Radiokes, Ltd., Sydney, for free illustrated
literature NOW.
RADIO BARGAINS.
Philips Eliminators 10/-, 12/6, 15/-; Philips Audio
Transformers 10/—, A.W.A. 6/-, others from 3/-.
Lightning Arrester and Switch, 6d. Variable
Condensers from 2/-. Reinartz Coils 1/6. Valves:
6-volt Battery, 6/-; A.C., 227, 3/6; 224, 4/6;
42, 6/-; 6A7, 7/6; 687, 7/6; 2A6, 6/-. Cord Grip
Holders, 3d. All tested and guaranteed. Add postage.
RADIO SUPPLY STORES,
1 ROYAL. ARCADE, SYDNEY.
m
I
M
P
E
X
GUARANTEED
BATTERY.
New Revolutionary Battery,
with Long Life Guarantee.
Reduced Price List.
IMPEX, LTD., Abbotsford, Vic., and
181 Clarence Street, Sydney.
RADIO NEWS.
DON B. KNOCK'S PAGES.
Air-Cell "A" Battery for
Outback.
Problems of all-electric receivers are
child’s play to those of battery-powered
receivers, on which engineers have been
experimenting for the past eight or nine
years. Valves have been made which
have gone a long way toward solving
such problems they have fully solved
that of plate current. Filament supply
has been the stumbling-block ; and even
with the most economical of valves there
have remained the natural troubles
associated with accumulator charging.
To those who live handy to a charging
station this will probably seem of little
importance ; to the inland listener it is
often most serious, not because the
accumulator is at fault, but because of
distance from charging stations and the
unreliability of some of these. The in-
lander has needed some source of “A”
supply that could be hitched to his two-
volt receiver and relied upon to do its
work without trouble for a long stretch.
This need is met by the Ever-Ready Air-
Cell, new to this country, though it has
been in use for some time in U.S.A.
This Air-Cell has now been thoroughly
tested, and carries these pages’ strongest
recommendation.
Polarisation and Depolarisation.
When current passes through the
electrolyte of a battery, part of the elec-
trolyte is reverted to the original ele-
ments. One of these is hydrogen. The
ions travel to the positive pole of the
battery and, unless removed at once,
collect as gaseous hydrogen. The effect
is to insulate the electrode from the
electrolyte and reduce voltage rapidly.
This is called polarisation. To counter-
act this materials rich in oxygen are
introduced and combine with the hydro-
gen to form plain water. Batteries are
normally depolarised by inserting man-
ganese-dioxide, lead-peroxide, copper-
oxide, copper-sulphate or potassium-
bichromate materials. They take up
valuable space, but contribute nothing to
the output. Yet they are normally essen-
tial. Not so with the. new Air-Cell.
Depolarisation here takes place by using
a special form of carbon as the positive
electrode. It has the ability to extract
pure oxygen from the air and make it
available within the battery as required.
This special carbon wants oxygen above
all things, and when exposed to a gas
mixture will load itself with oxygen and
repel any other material; although very
light and porous, it will remain quite
dry, even when immersed in the liquid
electrolyte. But if the oxygen content
becomes exhausted the carbon will load
itself with the nearest thing, which, in
this case, is the electrolyte. Conse-
quently, excess drains of current will
exhaust the oxygen supply, the carbon
will soak up the electrolyte and the
battery will be discharged quickly.
That, of course, applies to any battery:
excess loads will shorten life. Thus it
must be understood that the Air-Cell
cannot be ill-treated any more than any
other battery. But for a single cell it
will give more, pro rata. The maximum
rate at which the Air-Cell carbon can
take oxygen from the air is equal to a
current drain of 0.65 ampere, which is
a very useful rating.
Construction.
The battery is made up of two cells
in a moulded container, connected per-
manently in series. Dimensions are
Constructional view of the Air-Cell “A"
battery.
lOin. long, 64in. wide and KKin. high.
In the dry state it weighs 211 b.; when
filled with water and ready for service,
about 371 b. Electrodes are carbon and
zinc in an electrolyte of sodium hydrox-
ide. This is not a sal-ammoniac cell!
The battery is manufactured and
shipped dry, and the chemicals are in
place in solid form. To prevent chemical
deterioration the battery is hermetically
sealed, the seals being thin rubber mem-
branes under the filler holes and cello-
phane seals over the tops of the carbon
electrodes. Thus the battery is inert;
no depreciation occurs at all, and a
country dealer can safely place batteries
in stock, activate them at leisure, and be
sure of the full quota of 600 ampere-
hours. The consumer can be sure he gets
a fresh battery.
To activate the battery the cellophane
covers are removed so that oxygen can
enter, the filler membranes are punched
out and both compartments filled with
cold water. Distilled water is not neces-
sary —any water suitable for drinking
will do. The chemicals dissolve readily
without stirring, and as they dissolve the
liquid level drops. The dissolving pro-
cess takes about four hours, and after this
period the battery is ready for constant
use, although it can be used after a one-
hour period. Water level must be kept
up, otherwise the battery can fail on
account of low solution ; therefore, the
battery should be inspected monthly.
The only way moisture can be lost is by
evaporation. The battery does not gas
or bubble as does an accumulator, and,
unless it is placed near heat, a monthly
inspection of the solution level will be
enough. The voltage of a freshly-
activated battery is 2.53.
Precautions.
As the solution is caustic it should
never be permitted to come into contact
with rugs, furniture, clothing or the body.
It will damage textiles and wood finishes
,and can produce most painful burns.
Avoidance of this is merely a matter of
commonsense; the solution in an
accumulator is in the same category, but
the air-cell electrolyte is an alkali. A
cold Air-Cell is more easily overloaded
than one with normal temperature, and
the battery should not be called upon to
deliver current when the temperature is
40deg. Fahr. or lower. Low temperature
does not harm the battery so long as it is
idle.
The cellophane covers must be re-
moved ; batteries have been known to
fail through omission to remove these
covers. The cellophane keeps the air out
of the carbons before the battery is
activated ; when the battery is in service
it must breathe air in through its carbon
lungs.
The battery should never be tested with
an ammeter across the terminals; this
causes a dead short-circuit. If short-
circuited the carbons will be stripped of
oxygen at once and the battery will be
dead. It must be remembered that the
Air-Cell is a primary battery, although


»« Y«E KNOW ?
That the tone and range of all radio sets depend
largely upon the valves used?
Radiotron valves ensure good tonal, quality and
extreme range.
Install Radiotrons and observe the difference.
RADIOTIIMS
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS
(AUSTRALASIA) LTD.
47 York Street, Sydney
167-169 Queen Street, Melbourne
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL ELECTRIC
LIMITED
Sydney Melbourne Brisbane
Adelaide Hobart
V 25.6
(Advertisement of Amalgamated Wireless Valve Co. Ltd.)
of radically new make-up. When ex-
hausted it is worthless and must be dis-
carded. Low cost and an unusually long
life make up for this.
The Air-Cell has been designed
expressly for supplying current to the
filaments of two-volt valves, and an im-
portant point is that the valves must not
be over-greedy two-volt types. There are
the correct types of valves designed to
go with the cel], and shortly there will be
others available.
The Air-Cell type of receiver is
specially designed with initial cell voltage
and current capabilities in mind. There
are, however, many small-battery re-
ceivers now in use with which the Air-
Cell can readily be employed, with the
provision of a simple limiting resistor,
which can be fitted externally to the
receiver by the dealer supplying the cell.
The design of this resistor must be
extremely accurate, acording to the indi-
vidual receiver. It is a matter of Ohm’s
law: if the resistor is too small the
valves will get too much voltage ; if too
large they will be undersupplied.
The Air-Cell is here to stay, and
radio-receiver manufacturers will readily
recognise its advantages to the man on
the land. The price of the cell is fixed
at £2 16s. 3d., which, for 1000 hours’
service, or an average of a year, is clearly
not excessive. It is marketed by the
Ever-Ready Co. (Aust.), Ltd.
D. B. KNOCK.
All Round the Dial.
A further step in television in Britain
is the fitting of a van to carry television
cameras, by which means it will be pos-
sible to televise events outside the present
range of Alexandra Palace. It is hoped
that pictures may be fed from the
cameras to special cables which can be
tapped at various points, and thence to
the transmitters. The aim is to make out-
side television broadcasts as practicable
as outside sound broadcasts. When the
8.8. C. television service was begun its
experimental nature was repeatedly em-
phasised, but experiments are continuing,
and if the present rate of progress is
maintained the 8.8. C. considers that the
televising of great spectacular events
should become a certainty this year.
* * * *
“M. Francis”: Station 4BH, Brisbane,
is running a one-act-play competition, in
which amateur dramatists have the satis-
faction of being produced and broadcast,
with £lO 10s. prize for the winner. Some
entries already heard show decided talent
and good radio technique.
* * *
“M.F.”: An outstanding recent national
item was the broadcast from 4QG Bris-
bane of “A Play Without a Name,” by
Charles Porter, the first locally-written
and -produced play to be relayed from
4QG to the southern stations. It intro-
duced a new dramatic technique, being
entirely without introduction or explana-
tion by a narrator. The story dealt with
the reactions and fears of a man on the
verge of a mental collapse, with occa-
sionally a flash-back to events of his
early life. The thoughts of the central
character were spoken by an actor in a
studio apart from the other players, thus
achieving a detached, distant effect.
Locally-recorded sound effects were used
in the production, and as a novel con-
clusion to an unusual drama the cast in
turn announced their own names.
* * * *
“C. Mac”: If the pay is right, the
A.B.C. will be doing something substan-
tial for Australian writers in a story-
reading series being launched this month.
The idea is to have short-story writers
give readings of their own stories, and
early on the list is Hilary Lofting, read-
ing three of his yarns on successive
Tuesday afternoons. On successive
Thursday afternoons Ernest Wells will
read four stories he has written specially
for these broadcasts. Writers broadcast-
ing doubtless know their own business,
but one A.B.C. contract form which I
have seen I wouldn’t sign if the pay
rates were 10 times whatever they now
are. By this contract the author gives
the Commission the right to buy all
copyright in the substance of the. talk
for half the sum paid for the broadcast!
At the rates it has paid in the past —
and may still pay—the Commission,
undex this arrangement, could buy com-
plete copyright in a story of 3000 words
for fifteen shillings, having grandly paid
thirty bob for the broadcast!
* * * *
“Cluny”: 2GB has introduced an
announcer who rivals the gentleman con-
ducting the morning music from 2BL,
now on the way to an Australia-wide
hook-up at breakfast-time. The new-
comer’s name is Fox, and he specialises
in “music worth listening to.” For three
hours of a Saturday morning this session
fills up a long-felt gap between the syn-
dicated and canned tripe flappers seem
to enjoy and the excess of tuneless tack
the A.B.C. turns on for our entirely
imaginary highbrow population. Com-
ments are informative without being
pedantic.
* * * *
“Dali”: A Stinson monoplane, survey-
ing North-western Airlines’ route for the
Sydney-Moree-Brisbane service, on the
way back to Moree tuned into 2NZ and
followed the beam. After leaving Moree
it tuned in to 2MO (Gunnedah), and fol-
lowed the beam until Gunnedah was
reached. Then the machine wept to
Sydney, tuning into 2FC and following
the beam right home. Thus it had
music all the way.
Amateur Chatter.
Previous notes included mention of a
report to the effect that some Sydney
stations had been heard on five metres at
Mount Stromlo (F.C.T.). A letter from
Canberra experimenters interested in the
five-metre band is emphatic that there
was nothing in it. Investigation of ultra-
short waves is of great importance;
false reports only reinforce the opinion
that genuine co-operation is extremely
difficult to secure. What is needed is the
establishment of distant stations at pre-
determined positions and controlled by
enthusiasts. Another source of disappoint-
ment is the poor response in the Sydney
district to appeals for the using of more
advanced apparatus. The band-wrecking
“transceiver” is still very much in evi-
dence, with the result that stations
engaged in long-distance tests have had
their communication ruined. One person
can spoil the whole five-metre band for
miles around.
After having attempted five-metre
communication through “transceiver” in-
terference on recent evenings the writer
turned to another band. For a change
40 metres was explored ; strangly enough,
it was (except “silent” 10-metres) the
band with the least QRM of all! That
would not have been possible two years
or less ago. It is evident that the 20-
metre band has absorbed a large number
of new stations during the DX boom,
allowing some relief to 40-metres. For
how long? The fact of the matter is
that if one tries to get away from QRM
one might just as well give up amateur
radio and cultivate white mice or gold-
fish. Nothing much in the way of DX
was in evidence on 40, but inter-State
and country ’phone stations were strong
and afforded a few interesting yarns.
There is, or ought to be, as much in-
terest in a yarn with a fellow outback
as with an overseas station, which may,
after all, be only on a QSL hunt. Years
ago Australia had its R.C.C. (Rag-
chewers’ Club), inaugurated by Evans, of
VK2NS (“The Old Sock”). It would be
a good idea to revive this and apply it
to both key and ’phone. The R.C.C.
had definite rules, and upon qualification
a special printed card was issued to
members.
VK2NO.
Radio Trade Spotlight.
Most radio retailers are chiefly con-
cerned with the sale of proprietary lines,
but after several years in the wholesale
side A. G. Davis and Co., of Wembley
House, Railway-square, Sydney, has
entered the retail business, and the new
show-windows hold much useful material
in the way of components for the con-
structor. “Wembley Radio” is now con-
ducted as a wholesale and retail business.
* * * *
The Ever-Ready Co. announces reduc-
tion in battery prices, including the
Superdyne 45-volt battery from 18s. to
155., representing a saving of 9s. on a set
of three B batteries. This must go a
long way towards ensuring continued
popularity of B-battexy-operated radio
receivers and greatly strengthen the Ever-
Ready Co.’s contention that batteries are
the most economical form of radio power
for the man on the land.
* * * *
“Oyay”: A par. in the current
“Radio” (U.S.A.) puts forward a plea
for better voice codes among ama-
teurs using radio-telephony, internation-
ally or otherwise. There is apparently
too much of the “B for Boston,” “D for
Denmark,” “A for America” kind of
stuff one hears launched almost continu-
ously into the air. The suggestion is
that ’phone amateurs in doubt should
revert to the more simple and less mis-
leading phonetic form of verbal alphabet.
This is quite in order, provided the old
army “Ack Emma” stuff is appreciated
at both ends.
The Question Box.
(1) Enclosed is a cutting from an English
newspaper advertising the “Pocketphone.” The
container holds everything except . the head-
phone. Will you be giving details of a set
like this in the near future? (2) Date of The
Bulletin in which a small set of this kind
recently appeared? —49s.
(1) This pocket receiver is designed around
the Hivac make of midget valves, and so far
only the triode types are available in Aus-
traha. There is no technical difficulty in de-
signing such a set, but the dry-battery manufac-
turers would need to turn out some specially
small cells for the purpose. A set as small as
this may be considered before long. (2) The
Bush Companion in B. 7/10/’36.
* * * *
Is it possible to make a small oscillator which
can be used mainly as a wavemeter to cover
the broadcast band, and also as an indicator
for matching coils ? I have several old receivers
to redesign, and, as I have a liking for making
ing own coils, I would appreciate a diagram
of any useful dpnee of the kind. —496.
The diagram illustrated is of one of the most
useful forms of indicating oscillators of the
“grid-dip” variety. It uses the split Colpitts
circuit, and any general-purpose battery triode
alve will do. The variable condensers Cl and
y. are a standard double-gang unit of the
t U t m superhets, and the coils LI
L2 are wound correspondingly to cover
the desired range according to the capacity of
the two-gang unit. If it is desired to match
a series of coils, they can be connected in turn
across a single variable condenser, and, with
quite a loose coupling (about 6in.) to the grid
coil LI, the resonant point will be indicated
by a drop in the grid current of the oscillator,
as shown on the meter. This should be a
O-to-5 D.C. rnilliammeter. With dial readings
noted on the _ single and two-gang condenser
controls, it will be obvious that coils can be
readily matched. R 1 is a 5000-ohm resistor and
C 3 a .Olmfd. mica condenser. R 2 is a 400-ohm
variable resistor. To use as a wavemeter, the
oscillator should be screened in a metal case.
A. and B battery potentials depend upon the
valve used. The oscillator can be calibrated
with broadcast stations by first tuning in (cor-
rectly) the broadcast stations of known fre-
quency and heterodyning the carrier to zero
beat. Keep the oscillator as far from the re-
ceiver as is consistent with a reasonable beat
note.
* * * *
I have acquired some valves, old in design,
but known to be in good order, as they have
never been used through the years. The types
are a double-ended valve marked “5625” and
three valves of ordinary appearance marked
“DEL6IO.” If these can be put to use either
in a broadcast or short-wave receiver I would
appreciate a diagram showing how; also some
explanation as to what the valves are. —494.
The 5625 and the DEL6IO valves are six-
volt battery valves. The DEL6lO’s are general-
purpose triodes, and can be used as detector or
audio amplifier. The 5625 (the double-
ender) is a screen-grid R.F. amplifier. It was
the first type of screen-grid valve developed, and
was the first to be used in Australia (1928).
A diagram from an old radio magazine is illus-
trated. This shows a receiver of earlier days
using such valves. The coils can be easily
home-made; quite likely suitable coils from
old kits could be picked up in a second-hand
radio store. (Try Radio Supply Stores, Royal
Arcade, Sydney.) The differential condenser for
reaction is not essential, but has advantages.
An ordinary condenser can be used, omitting the
stator marked FI. Battery bias is used on R.F.
and audio stages and the volume control poten-
tiometer in the grid of the first audio stage is
the usual ,smeg. value,
* * * *
Can a crystal receiver, influenced by the
presence of a near-by short-wave receiver, be
used to listen on short waves? —497.
It is possible for a crystal receiver to receive
a foreign programme through the medium of a
near-by aerial attached to a sensitive valve
receiver which is not only picking up the dis-
tant station’s programme but is reradiating
this with sufficient strength for the neighboring
aerial to pick up the impulses. There is noth-
ing new about it; it is as old as radio itself.
The oscillator in a superhet, dual-wave or other-
wise, is virtually a small transmitter, rnodulated
by the first detector. If there is no R.F. stage
ahead of the first detector, the oscillator is quite
likely to radiate.


LYSAGMITS
m
PROOF
MkIUN mMI
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in every
Roll of Netting .
LYSAGHT’S
Fencing Wire
, ' * ... ~ • v
m
m
. -■ iy *''
flp*B
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
quality guaranteed.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Brothers & Co., Ltd.
Head Office: 17*19 Bridge Street, Sydney
SPECIFY
"LYSAGHT'S" WIR E, WIRE NETTING.
ETC.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
THE STUFF TO GIVE'EM
MEGGITTS LINSEED MEAL
Sheep Classing.
“Murrawong”: The aim of classing is
to make a flock as even as possible in
type, conformation and covering. Hap-
hazard breeding may yield dividends on
favorable wool and stock markets, but
a well-classed flock will pay an owner
when others cannot balance production
costs.
To begin with the owner must have a
clear idea of the type of sheep he means
to breed. The first year’s classing will
necessarily be drastic. If the flock has
never previously been classed or has
changed hands, all the breeders will have
to be examined. The ewes should be
taken in ages, and in a new flock it is
advisable to look over all the sheep
before doing any culling.
The best time to class is when the
sheep are full-woolled ; they should cer-
tainly carry over six months’ wool. It
is not always convenient to handle
breeding ewes in the few months before
shearing. The ewes are either heavy in
lamb or have small lambs at foot, and,
especially in the interior, yarding sheep
adds to the dust, in the fleeces. However,
if classing is being done by owner or
manager it can be fitted in with some
other necessaty job, such as taking out
dry ewes or treating for fly. In any case,
general classing need be done only once.
Thereafter, odd bad sheep may be culled
at shearing and regular classing confined
to hoggets and maiden ewes.
By having a good' look over yarded
sheep, the classer will get an idea of the
percentage he will have, to cull to make
the mob even ; he should remember that
he will probably have to cull more for
wool than for constitution. Most well-
known flocks regularly cull 25-30 p.c.
of their young sheep every year, so the.
beginner must face the possibility of
getting rid of 40 p.c. of his breeders for
a start. It is the only means of attaining
his goal and lessens the culling percen-
tage in future, years by removing the
sources of many faults at the outset.
It is not necessary to handle every
sheep. Undersized runts, badly-shaped
animals and any with very bare faces
and legs may be culled on sight. Class
first for conformation, and examine the
wool of the survivors only. Many ugly-
shaped sheep have good fleeces —but
don’t yield to temptation!
The first stage may be done in a forc-
ing pen, where the classer can see the
sheep standing in a natural position. He
should have an offsider armed with
raddle to mark culls on topknot or nose
and several catchers to hold any sheep
he may wish to examine.
Wrinkly sheep should be culled, es-
pecially those with saucer tails and
breech wrinkles forming channels that'
invite blowfly attack. Frosty faces are
usually a sign of stariness or kemp in
the wool and should not be bred from.
Cow hocks are also a sign of congenital
weakness. Aim at as good a top line as
your culling limit will allow. Sheep with
“devil’s grip” are weak-constitutioned,
and those with a pronounced dip in the
back or high sharp withers are likely to
hold moisture and breed water-rot, apart
from their apparent fault.
Opinions differ greatly regarding the
amount of wool that should be carried
on the face ; district has a strong bear-
ing on the matter. In grass-seed coun-
try an open face is preferred. This can
be overdone, however, and may lead to
bareness on points and underneath. On
the other hand, the sheep that is wool
to the nose will be blind two months off
shears ; it should be put out at once.
Lamb-marking Points.
“M.L.W.”: Lambs invariably suffer a
setback at marking-time; whether the
check is serious or slight depends largely
on method of handling.
In catching, the hands should be
placed under the belly, well towards the
“ Stomach-ache! What gave you that, Jacky?”
“No idea, Boss, unless it Was from kick in bingy I got from draught-
horse."
front legs, and the lamb lifted straight
back against the catcher’s body. Joints
are ricked and hurt in catching by the
leg; picking up by the loose skin of the
back leaves bruises. I’ve even seen lambs
picked up and held, kicking, by the
neck. ", ‘
For holding on the rail, the hind legs
should be pulled straight, so that they,
together with the catcher’s arms, are in-
side the front legs. Don’t force the hind
legs wide apart, as this often permanently
injures the hip joints.
Holding the front and back legs on
each side together allows the lamb too
much purchase should he struggle. In
lowering to the ground the hands should
be under the belly, as in catching, arid
the lamb placed on all fours on the
ground. Dropping a lamb from a height
of 34ft. or so on to his side or head is
dropping good money.
Footrot.
“Walliew”: Watch for early signs of
footrot when the herd has constant
access to moisture. If any sign of flame-
ness or swelling in the hoof is noticed,
isolate the animal.
Fomentation in hot water for a quar-
ter of an hour three times a day will
cleanse the foot and reduce the swell-
ing; or the foot can be cleansed by
drawing through it a calico rag soaked
in a mixture of one part washing soda
to two parts water. Any dressings
should be carefully bound on; other-
wise they collect much harmful dirt.
Recommended dressings: Boracic acid
, 0 , , u i ° frxnr • nnwr
and Stockholm tar, one to ton > P
dered bluestone and powdered chalk, one
to four ; carbolic acid and tar, one to
ten. Skin-cracks above the hoof may
, . \ , ... . . f
be anointed with a mixture of acetate o
lead 6 drachms, carbolic actd l drachm,
vaseline 60z.; apply daily. A daily one-
minute footbath of one part copper
sulphate to four parts water is also
recommended. There are several effi-
cacious made-up preparations on the
market,
Use something other than a metal
bucket. If footrot breaks out frequently,
construct a concrete basin to serve as a
footbath. Early treatment is the main
thing.
“Sheepo”: Details of a new specific
for footrot come from a Dr. Bunnell,
of California, a The preparation, made by
mixing in a glass or an earthenware con-
tainer copper i sulphate, nitric acid and
red- or white-lead in equal proportions,
is painted on the affected parts, and after
treatment the sheep should be kept on a
clean floor for a couple of hours. A 50
p.c. cure is claimed.
An old Scotch remedy employed
copper sulphate and nitric acid and gave
good results, so the new preparation,
with its addition of red- or white-lead,
should be worth a trial. The use of any
specific, however, is of little avail unless
there is paring that will allow the applica-
tion to get to the root of the trouble.
Have We Reached Wool Limits?
“Zedo”: In a recent pamphlet Senator
Guthrie, whose experience is lifelong,
discusses whether it is possible to in-
crease much further the. production of
wool per sheep.
In the infancy of the industry, the
average cut was 31b. per head. It is
now about B|lb., and rams, of course,
cut over 401 b. fairly frequently.
Senator Guthrie believes production
can and will be increased. He mentions
that,
according to scientists who recently in-
vestigated, the greatest cross-sectional area
of fibre carried by most dense sheep,
measured by microscopical methods, is 3
p.c in sheep of average density the
area occupied actually by wool fibres ranges
between 1.5 p.c. and 3 p.c. of the body
surface.
The average area of a sheep’s skin,
he adds, is about square feet. If
keratin covered this 100 p.c., it would
form a plate 3in. thick, which would
weigh 2201 b., whereas —wool yielding 50
p.c. of keratin —the average sheep car-
ries only 4|lb. of keratin.
There certainly is room for per-sheep
expansion of yield. The high ram figures
as compared with the average alone
demonstrate the possibility.
Speciality and Superfines.
“K.Mc.”: Speciality superfine wools
should not be confused with ordinary
superfines. Speciality types are used to
blend with silk. Buyers go to dizzy limits
to get suitable lines, as the cost of raw
wool has little material effect on the
price of a feather-light fabric which is
sold round about 10s. per yard.
An isolated instance of this wool fetch-
ing up to 46fd., as given by “C.V.S."
(B. 10/2/’37), is no evidence that super-
fines in general are selling at prices com-
mensurate with the additional cost of
producing this wool. The market for
superfines has improved considerably,
but at some sales the top lines are still
only a few pence above tliose of high-
yielding mediums and comebacks.
Fine-woolled sheep, unhampered by
heavy fleeces, are generally the most
profitable to run on hilly or light-carry-
ing country ; but this doesn’t alter the
fact that this wool should fetch Is. per
pound more than mediums and strongs
to compensate for the lighter fleeces and
smaller carcasses.
Three-day Disease Losses.
“F.A.4”: Heavy loss may have been
suffered by dairy farmers through the in-
terruption or cessation of milk supply in
three-day sickness, but among beef
cattle from the vicinity of Burketown to
the eastern coast mortality has been re-
markably low. Cattlemen working large
herds in the Gulf and North put the rate
at one death per thousand cases.
If cattle are intelligently handled the
trouble need cause only slight interrup-
tion to the working of a property. A
large Gulf property got the disease
among the bullocks in the middle of de-
livering 3000 fats. It caused a fort-
night’s delay and the loss of nine head.
Its gravest aspect here in C.Q. is the
possibility of an outbreak in a travelling
mob' It has been proved that if let
alone an affected beast will almost cer-
tainly recover.
The symptoms are not three or four
days of fever. In odd cases there has
been up to a week’s convalescence, but
the disease runs its course in three days,
and usually after the third day the
animal commences to thrive again.
Isolation is useless —the disease reached
Palm Island without any cattle having
been taken there.
The writer who mentioned the “heavy
loss” adds: Losses are not of animals.
A few die, but in dairying districts losses


•••••
::
: '
m
Tlu Eoiir alh&J me
and I told him straight ...
INTERNATIONALS!
“It’s my job to check up all the performances of
our truck fleet but I go out of my way often
to find out what other fleet men think . . . And
they agree with me that any truck in the Inter-
national line half-tonners to 5-tonners and
outsize six-wheelers - is a true truck job. Look-
ing hack over the past 15 years, I can’t remember
a single disappointment with an International
and I’ve handled scores of them, and as many of
other makes as well.
“Internationals have no weak spot that I’ve ever
been able to discover. You can depend on them
to give good wear all through. That’s why you
see so many veteran Internationals on the road
arid so many new Internationals marshalled up
into the big modern truck fleets.
m
VJ. 1 y
“So what I told the Boss I’m telling you —Buy
Internationals.” , 1
■
tx
Y 2157
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER COMPANY
OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
(INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA)
BRISBANE SYDNEY MELBOURNE ADELAIDE PERTH
The comprehensive International range
includes the following models:
Utilities and *4 -ton vans
(113 and 125-in. wheelbases).
20-cwt., 136-in. wheelbase.
30-cwt., 133 and 157-in. wheelbases.
35-cwt., 133 and 157-in. wheelbases.
l6O-in. wheelbase. ■ ,
3 : ton, 155 and 185-in. wheelbases.
4- 156, 170 and 185-in. wheel-
bases.
5- 190-in. wheelbase.
Also Six-wheelers from 3 to 10-ton
capacities in various wheelbases.
Come in and let us give you full particulars about
any truck in the International line.
Chassis Prices from £277
(plus tax)
ELLLY AN
INTERNATIONAL
The World’s Best Truck Investment
v\ -. . • . . - .
through failure of milk supply have been
heavy. It is characteristic of the Aus-
tralian beef industry that the effect of
sickness on a beast is not measured so
long as the animal recovers. It would
be safe to say that in the North Coast
district of N. S. Wales and in S. Queens-
land the disease has cost the dairying
industry tens of thousands of pounds
already. How much it has cost beef
breeders nobody can yet say.
k #
Branding Pigs.
“R.X.8.”; No pig need be branded
to identify ownership, as heavy stock
must be; anyone running pigs properly
would ear-snip them when they are
weaned. But some distinctive brand or
mark is essential when pigs are sent to
a big saleyard, and I am dead against
fireirons for this job, as suggested by
“Pappamosca” (B. 10/2/’37).
Iron-branding is bad both for the pig
and the carcass. However well it is done,
it will knock a pig back ; by my own
observation the iron-branded beast falls
back for from three days to three weeks,
Since the job is usually done a couple of
days before dispatch, that pig is ad-
versely affected and weight is lost. And
pigmen would be surprised at the number
0 f bobs knocked off prices for bad brands
that affect a carcass. On the other hand,
no brands at all, or ear-snips common
to all, simply invite possible error and
loss.
I tried all sorts of tattooing, painting
an d stencilling. Then I got an idea from
some luggage at a wharf, bearing the
f ahpk with thp nawnw . r v name
steamei labels with the passenger s name
ini hal. I had some big labels printed,
with all my particulars, and, using a thin
glue, simply pasted that label flat on the
pig’s hindquarters just above the tail. My
pigs were trucked for 90-odd miles, and
spmt a day or two in the saleyards, but
a label was never affected. Buyers were
attracted by my label with a red B in the
centre. They knew I had confidence in
my goods to advertise and display them.
Having bought and found them good,
they looked for my baconers again. Prices
improved, and I began to get inquiries
for pigs from many quarters, all of
which were directly due to those labels.
Cooling Systems.
“Stump Jump”: Quality of butter and
keeping of milk depend on effective and
early cooling or pasteurisation. Unless a
cooler can reduce milk to 38-40 deg. F.
and cream to 45deg. F. it is not of much
use.
A common system employs a small
galvanised tank placed above the cooler
in the coolest part of the dairy. A few
pounds of lake salt stirred into the tank
of water just before use lowers the tem-
perature, though rarely by more than
20deg. F. A disadvantage is the cost
of the salt, since the water runs to waste
after one use.
Another scheme is the drip-tower, a
latticed structure 10ft. or 12ft. high with
a finely-drilled bath-shower rose at the
top, connected with the water pipe, and
a device below to catch the fallen water
and carry it to the cooling machine.
This outfit, cooling according to the pre-
vailing breezes, is quite effective.
The simplest apparatus I’ve struck is
a U-pipe of galvanised fin. iron, let
down into a 4in. or sin. bore-hole, 25ft.
to 30ft. below the ground surface. The
water system is connected to one arm
of the U ; the other leads to the cooler.
Water must pass the whole distance
underground to go through the U, and
is thereby cooled. I know of one of
these plants which in hot irrigation
country delivers water at 40-41 deg. F.
through summer, provided too much is
o Continued on page 44.)


f>
Made in an imported Scotch Ooze
Calf with heavy double soles and
reinforced Elastic sides.
Stocked in full and half sizes and
in wide and extra wide fittings.
Price 42/-.
&
IN ABBEY
RIDING BOOTS
A Boot that is worn for hard work day
by day must be comfortable. It must
allow the toes freedom to be in their
natural positions and the arches of the
foot to have support where necessary.
We have designed this Abbey Riding
Boot with all these qualities so that
your feet may have that “freedom for
action” which helps considerably in
making life so much more cheerful.
WRITE FOR A CATALOGUE.
ABBEY SHOES
316 GEORGE STREET, 224 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY.
Telegraphic Address: “ABBEY BOOTS,” SYDNEY
THEY
VI
LICK
0<
WANT
rs
IT
at
-Jttb
t
LL
Afier the
COROMTIOX..
w-' •
WESTMINSTER ABBEY, LONDON
r:
i
*
SPRING STREET, GARMISCH
THE CATHEDRAL, COLOGNE
Crown your trip with
a Holiday in
GERMANY
England !—the Coronation celebrations—then the crowning
event of your trip—a glorious holiday in Germany. Travel
by modern streamlined trains, your own car or by ’plane
in perfect comfort over Europe’s most colourful country.
Climb in the Bavarian Alps—laze on Baltic beaches —golf
on excellent courses I Tour the romantic Rhine by steamer,
or the beautiful Neckar Valley by canoe. Living costs little
under the present special exchange system, and rail fares
are reduced 60%. You will be welcomed most courteously,
and when you leave you will not say “ Good-bye ”, but
“ Auf Wiedersehen ” as your charming hosts always do.
For full information and free descriptive literature, apply:
GERMAN RAILWAYS INFORMATION BUREAU
(Dept. 0.V.) 19, Regent Street, London, S.W. I.
or Offices of Thos. Cook & Son, Ltd., and other recognized Travel Agencies.
THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Friday
Is the most popular 64-page woman’s
paper published in the Common-
wealth. It features everything a
woman ought to know. Once you
read it you will never be without it.
Its up-to-date weekly pattern is
free for the asking.
Published, by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co.
252 George Street, Sydney.
TTie'^'ctlleii/rL
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
not run through at one time. This tem-
perature is right for cream, and the
plant, once the pipes are in, costs nothing.
Erosion in S.A.
One of the strangest things
about civilisation is how it wastes the
lands that keep it going. There are
examples in history that should put the
fear of famine and destruction into any
educated people—Babylon, Medea, Cen-
tral Asia Minor, Palestine, Egypt, all
have their tale to tell —but the wastage
common to the ancient world is being re-
peated in the modern.
Russia is struggling with over 1,000,000
square miles of interior sand. The
U.S.A. Government has decided to buy
and try to reclaim the area in its west
which overstocking and neglect, coupled
with yearly intensifying droughts, have
reduced to desert —the “Dust Bowl.”
(Cost of erosion damage in U.S.A. is
estimated at £80,000,000 p.a.) And a
commission appointed by the S’African
Government has reported that if present
conditions persist there will be a ‘ great
South African desert.”
In S. Australia a pamphlet issued by
the Agricultural Department outlines
erosion causes and illustrates the pass
to which parts of S.A. are being brought
by disregard for natural laws of soil
preservation.
Mallee. lands are suffering most.
Scrub on low-rainfall areas is rolled and
burnt off. Several successive cereal
crops are then grown in an effort to
outdistance the. bailiffs, who are usually
not far behind the occupier of this class
of land. Humus is rapidly depleted. The
price of wheat, perhaps, going up, the
occupier presses on with the eating-out
process. Presently there is a new desert
and a mortgage —often a Government
one —which will never be liquidated.
Fire, which burns surface humus and
virgin growth, the removal of natural
cover, overcropping, overstocking, all
play their part.
Control methods recommended by the
S.A. Agricultural Department include
wide rotation systems, with a minimum
growth of cereals for sale and a maxi-
mum for pasture ; the use of legumes
which will thrive in sandy regions, and
which deposit humus ; controlled graz-
ing through closer subdivision of proper-
ties ; planting sand dunes with binding
shrubs and grasses, and provision of
windbreaks.
Erosion is not limited to S.A. It is
turning so much land in western N.S.W.
and Queensland to red desert that it has
become one of the greatest present-day
Australian problems.
Lucerne and Skeleton Weed.
“X.D.”: Now is the time to set about
replacing skeleton weed with lucerne.
The land should be prepared, and sow-
ing begun in April and completed before
mid-May. In dry areas, 21b.-31b. seed is
enough ; in heavier rainfall districts 61b.
is not too much. Put in with from
icwt. to lewt. super.
The advantage in autumn sowing is
that the weed is then becoming dor-
mant ; the lucerne, especially if put in
after rain, has a chance of taking hold
while the s.w. is at its lowest ebb.
In winter the roots of the lucerne
establish themselves even though the
plants may not make great progress, but
growth makes up for this in spring,
when it should be lightly grazed. Stock
like the weed at this stage, and the graz-
ing prevents or retards seeding.
About the beginning of August a
second dressing of lewt. super, to the
acre should be carefully applied with a
combine or spring-tooth drill.
When the lucerne has been established
a year, grazing should be heavier. By
that time the lucerne should be several
jumps ahead of the weed.
Farmyard Manures.
“Zamia”: A thing that struck me
about European farming was the use
made of farmyard manures. In most
instances all kinds of animal and poultry
fertiliser were thrown together, fre-
quently forked over and laced with straw
and then treated in special ways fbr
special crops, usually being fermented
to rottenness before putting on the land.
One prevalent idea was that it was
bad practice to plough in manure, the
theory being that by allowing it to lie on
the ground it absorbs virtue from the
dews and air, and that, while rain and
moisture soak the surface of the soil
with seeping manure salts, the sun re-
moves nothing of value.
Many Australian farmers might faint at
hearing the amount of manure put on to
European soils, but they might also
faint at a comparison between their own
crops and European crops—seven
tons of potatoes in many countries
against the Australian 2\ tons. Up to
three tons of stable manure to the acre
is a not unusual dressing on small hold-
ings. And many old-fashioned farms go
in for liquid manure, especially around
Flanders fields —even for intensive wheat
crops on small areas.
Perennial Rye Grass.
“Rusticus”: Unusual seasonal condi-
tions in the s.-e. of S.A. and in coastal
Victoria have further emphasised the
value, of perennial rye, now regarded in
those districts as an essential in a first-
class sward. Its reputation in the past
has been chiefly based upon its response
to early autumn rains and its winter
growth.
When a heavy downpour occurs dur-
ing summer drought p. rye is able to
go straight ahead with green-leaf growth.
Most rye paddocks which had been cut
for ensilage or grass-hay now look like
a Japanese millet crop. A similar growth
cannot be expected every summer, but,
with present methods of grassland farm-
ing, a great deal of this type of pasture
can be sown with advantage.
Most of the present swards were es-
tablished by broadcasting the seed on
uncultivated land and following up with
the harrows. Wherever paddocks have
been ploughed before sowing, germina-
tion has been influenced by seasonal
conditions. It has also been necessary
in most instances to close paddocks for
several months. The first-year growth
does not cover the surface, and that
means so much idle ground. With the
other method, there is no interruption
in the growth of the grasses already
growing, and no cultivation expenses
apart from the insignificant cost of har-
rowing.
One cannot transform a farm to 60
to 70 p.c. rye grass in a season, but my
experience is that it can be done inex-
pensively in three to four years. I need
hardly mention that I used its two in-
separable allies in this country —sub.
clover and super. An important fer-
tilising factor is grazing by cattle in pref-
erence to sheep.
Uses of Waterglass.
“Zedo”: Waterglass can be put to
many uses other than preserving eggs.
In colloidal form waterglass is sodium
silicate —it makes a good proofing for
casks and for preserving troughs and
tanks in which such acid foods as
molasses are regularly kept.
Used at the rate of lib. to lOgal. hot
water, alkaline waterglass is ideal for
cleaning cans, bottles and buckets and
removing grease stains.
Also, it will make timber and cloth
fireproof.
Hints for the Farm.
“Vic.”: St. John’s wort continues to
spread despite the fact that it can be dealt
with very simply on lightly-infested land.
All that needs to be done is to chip out
a little soil at the base of the plant and
throw in a handful of common salt.
When the weed has become thick, of
course, this method is slow and expensive
as well.
“Ahrem”: Treating oat seed with
copper carbonate for smut is useless, as
fungus is protected under the husks. For-
malin treatment gives effective control,
and should be used, if the crop is for
other than green feed, on all varieties
except Fulghum and Lampton, which are
immune. Spread the grain on a tar-
paulin, sprinkle with a solution of lib-
formalin to 40gal. water and stir with
a shovel until uniformly but not exces
sively moistened. A gallon will do more
than a bushel. Cover with wet bags for
four hours to retain the gas, and place
in clean bags to prevent reinfection. Sow
the seed as soon as possible ; although
swollen, it should run freely through
the drill.
“Curlew”: A fence is no stronger
than the straining post, and that is in-
secure unless a good stay is used. A
stay rested on top of the post will
or later be dislodged. Set it into a niche
in the post three-quarters of the way up
from the ground. Preferably, use a flat
stone to butt the stay against; if stones
are not available, an old plough disc
will make a good job. Do not use round
timber for straining posts, gate post*,
etc.; it soon goes in the heart. A good-
sized log split into four makes the mos
satisfactory posts in any class of timber.
“X.”: Around Goodradigbee, Yass
(N.S.W.), a local tussock grass is worry-
ing graziers. It looks like corkscrew
grass when young, but has a white root
and corkscrew root is brown. When u
matures it looks like a nice addition
to the station fodder, but sheep die in
their tracks rather than eat the temp -
ing-looking bunches. The light tassellmg
spreads for miles in the wind.


REFERENDUM
VOTE.
ON “MARKETING”
For the following reasons:—
1. To preserve the most vital part of our Federal Constitution.
2. This is a “Big National” question, and grave issues are
at stake.
3a Marketing by Government “Boards” has failed whenever
applied;
RUBBER (The Stevenson Plan)
WHEAT (in Canada and U.S.A.)
COFFEE (in Brazil)
are conspicuous examples.
At the Farmers and Settlers’ Conference a few years ago, Mr. Bruce stated:
“MARKETING BY GOVERNMENTS MUST END
IN DISASTER. FOR HEAVEN’S SAKE DON’T LET
GOVERNMENTS COME IN AND DO YOUR
MARKETING FOR YOU.”
4. Remember what the framers of the Constitution had in
mind, that for all time trade and commerce between the States should
be absolutely free. They intended there should be a gap in this respect
in the legislative powers of both Commonwealth and States.
The powers sought are too wide.
The Right Hon. R. G. Menzies, P.C., K.C., M.P. (Federal Attorney-
General), has stated that the word “marketing” “would undoubtedly be
held to cover buying and selling of goods and commodities and trans-
actions incidental thereto.”
This is wide enough to cover all means of transport as well as banking.
IF YOU WISH TO PRESERVE
THE AUSTRALIAN FEDERATION
VOTE “NO” on March 6th
Authorised by “NO” CAMPAIGN COUNCIL,
MATT. J. FOX, Secretary.


Corns Sentenced to Death.
Corns have worried you—now worry them:
although “worry” is hardly the word, for
A’CORN SILK does not trifle with corns, but
ruthlessly kills them. How comfortable your
feet feel after A’CORN SILK has removed
all your soft or hard corns —a 6d. packet will
do this for you without pain or inconvenience.
Corns are killed while you sleep—a matter of
a few hours. Chemists sell A’CORN SILK at
6d. per packet. Packed by Felton, Grimwade
*&i d Duerdins, Ltd., Melbourne.
kort Story
QjJ f Writing
tyree Lance
Journalism
Learn and Earn The most thorough and practical
in Spare Time ! Course of Training ever written 1
Instruction and Constructive Criticism by Practical
Journalists and Short Story Writers . . . You learn
how to Wiite and how to sell your stories and articles.
Full details sent on application to
I. C.S. School oS Journalism
140 Elizabeth Street, Sydney
THEMMONTHEMHD
S//01/£D/I£ADT//£B/6fi(/mMrm
£¥£/?£ JV££/f///
THE AUSTRALASIAN
Q/ffM£~u4llSrAT£S~P#/CE 6P
Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Typist, S.A., wants typing work; expert and
cheap.—4646.
Middle-aged station manager, N.S.W., life-
long experience management of stock, requires
position of trust on station. Wages secondary
consideration. Go anywhere.—4657.
Jackeroo, Q’land, experienced cattle central
coast, also one year in Gulf, good rider, under-
stands all station work, wants position on
cattle station in West Q’land or Gulf. —4660.
Young man (17), N.S.W., wants position on
cattle station anywhere in Q. or N.T. Can
milk and ride. Pay own fare. —4684.
Man or woman to assist in extending business
in already established cafe, N.S.W. Confec-
tionery, soft drinks, ice-cream, cakes. Caterers;
low rent.—4658.
Qualified accountant and registered tax agent
(30), N. Q’land, requires position. Fourteen
years’ clerical experience.—4706.
To buy old Australian holey dollar and
dump.—4716.
Words of song “The Road to the Isles.” —
4663.'
Words of recitation “He Wouldn’t Play His
Bloomin’ Flute.” —4688.
Whereabouts of Allan Chavasse. (Reply to
Keith Chavasse, Bulletin office, 239 Adelaide-
street, Brisbane.)
Information Sought.
When are teams finally chosen for a Test? —•
4690.
Teams are usually selected a week before the
match, but are not finalised till the day of the
fixture. The rule states that “the two captains,
before tossing, shall in each match give each
other the names of the respective teams selected
for the match, together with the name of the
emergency fieldsman, and no alteration shall
then be made without the consent of the oppos-
ing captain.”
* * *
(1) Who made the record score in Tests be-
tween England and Australia ? (2) Who made
the record score in Tests (all countries) ? (3)
Is wicket covered for Test matches in Aus-
tralia ? What part is covered ? (4) Is roller used
on the Test wicket between each innings ? —
4625.
(1) D. Bradman (Australia), 334 v. England,
at Leeds, 1930. (2) W. Hammond (England),
336 not out v. New Zealand, at Auckland, 1932-
33. (3) The covering after the commencement
of a match must not protect a larger area than
18ft. by 12ft. at each end, and must not
protect more than 3ft. 6in. in front of the
popping crease. (4) Law 9 states: “Before the
commencement of each innings and of each
day’s play, unless the in-side object, the ground
shall be rolled for not more than seven
minutes.”
* * * *
(1) Who made the first ascent into the strato-
sphere, and when ? (2) Height attained ?—-
4749.
(1) Professor Auguste Piccard and M. Kipfer,
in balloon “F.N.R.S.,” ascending at 3.57 a.m.
on May 27, 1931, at Augsburg, Bavaria, and
landing about 9 p.m. on a glacier above the
village of Ober-Gurgl, Austrian Tyrol. (2)
51,775 feet (9.81 miles).
sjc * * *
(1) Regulations governing private construc-
tion of aeroplanes ? (2) Required safety
factors? (3) Will the Australian Air Board
grant C. of A. to “Flying Fleas” in any cir-
cumstances ? (4) Is it permissible to fly a 'plane
without C. of A. over private ground (as in
France)? —4704.
(1) See leaflet recently prepared by the Civil
Aviation Board setting out requirements
governing aircraft design and construction in
the Commonwealth. Copies may be obtained
from the Civil Aviation Board, Defence De-
partment, Melbourne. (2) There are many
loading cases laid down covering the various
component units of the machine; these are dealt
with in detail in Air Publication 1208, “Air-
worthiness Handbook for Civil Aircraft.” For
aircraft of an all-up weight less than 22001b.
the C.P.F. load factors required are seven and
nine for the normal and acrobatic categories
respectively, while the corresponding C.P.B. load
factors are 5.25 and six. (3) Certificate of air-
worthiness would be granted in respect of a
“Flying Flea” only if requirements outlined in
leaflet regarding design, construction and flight
tests had been fully complied with. (4) As laid
down in Air Navigation Regulations, no un-
registered aeroplane may fly except for pur-
poses of experiment and within three miles of
an aerodrome or aircraft factory.
Gear required for marlin fishing? —4676.
Should include a double- or treble-built split-
cane rod with a 5ft. 6in. tip, butt 16in. long,
tapering from 1 l-16in. to 7-16in. The reel seat
must have a patent locking type, extra strong,
as a terrific strain is thrown on this particular
part of the rod during the battle. The reel
should be of drag-handle principle, 6in., 7in.
or 8in., with a line capacity of at least 600
yards, and anything up to 1000 yards of 36
cuttyhunk. The most suitable hook is 13/0,
special hand-forged steel. Bait should consist
of fish around 21b. or 31b. for preference,
mackerel, benito, salmon, kingfish or mullet.
The swivel chair must be placed aft and situ-
ated in the cockpit so that the rod when trained
in any direction overhangs the boat.
H* 5 1 : H»
(1) How to obtain a negative from a snap?
(2) Estimated cost of requirements ?— 4570.
(1) Photographically copy the print, using
camera with ground-glass focusing screen
and long extension bellows, so image can be
sharply focused. In certain circumstances this
can be done with ordinary snapshot type of
camera, provided portrait attachment is used.
It would be necessary, however, to focus by
placing a piece of ground glass on back of
camera prior to inserting film. Get the image
sharply focused; then, without moving posi-
tion of camera, load film and place back on
camera, which is then ready to make the ex-
posure. Pay attention to lighting of print,
taking care that it is even and that there are no
shadows. (2) You will need film and a por-
trait attachment; cost ranges from 4s. 6d. to
155., according to the type required to suit your
camera. As copying work is involved and
needs skill, it might be advisable to take your
snap to one of the well-known photographic
houses, such as Kodak, Ltd., 379 George-street,
Sydney. They would make a negative of the
average snapshot print at a cost of approxi-
mately Is. 6d.
H= =H * *
(1) Particulars of the metal rhodium ? (2)
Where procurable ? —4650.
(1) Rhodium (chemical symbol Rh), of the
platinum group, having an atomic number of
45 and an atomic weight of 102.91, is a greyish-
white ductile metal, melting at 1920 deg. C.,
insoluble in water or acids. It occurs in
platinum ores and gold gravels of S. America,
and is used in alloys in manufacture of thermo-
elements and astronomical measuring instru-
ments. (2) From H. B. Selby and Co., Ltd.,
5 Bulletin-place, Sydney. Delivery within two
months of order.
He ifc H* H*
(1) What is the population of Wellington
(M.L .) ? (2) What are the approximate gross
yearly receipts of the Municipal Electricity,
Water and Tramway Departments ? —4499.
(1) 115,653. (2) Electricity Department,
£338,611; Water, £108,571 ; Tramways,
£364,769.
He He He He
Where are to be found the lines “Since Lin-
nceus knelt beside you on the sod”? —4585.
In Elizabeth Barrett Browning’s “Lessons
from the Gorse.” The stanza runs as follows:
Mountain gorges, since Linnaeus
Knelt beside you on the sod,
For your beauty thanking God—
For your teaching, ye should see us
Bowing in prostration new!
Whence arisen—if one or two
Drops be on our cheeks —O World,
They are not tears, but dew.
t- * * *
Brief particulars regarding life and theories
of Froebel ? —4670.
Friedrich Froebel, German educational re-
former, born 1782, in 1826 wrote The Education
of Man, in which he embodied his theories.
These he put into practice when (1837) he
started a school for young children. He was
the first to recognise the importance of play in
a child’s life, and to urge that a child’s natural
creativeness should be encouraged. His ideas
have been largely adopted by later educationists,
particularly in England. He died 1852.
* h= * *
Few particulars regarding John Drinkwater,
the English writer? —4606.
Born June 1, 1882, at Leystonstone, Essex,
and educated at Oxford High School. For 12
years he was with assurance companies. He
was co-founder of the Pilgrim Players and for
years producer and general manager, playing
many roles as well. His best-known play is
“Abraham Lincoln”; others include “Mary
Stuart,” “Oliver Cromwell” and “Robert E.
Lee.” His collected poems were published in
1926. He has been twice married, the first
union being dissolved; his present wife is Daisy
Kennedy, the Australian violinist.
* * * *
What old masters dealt with the subject St.
Anthony’s Temptation? —4423.
Numerous paintings and pictorial representa-
tations of “St. Anthony’s Temptation in the
Desert” exist. David Teniers the younger
appears to have been the most attracted to this
subject, examples being in the Berlin Museum,
the Louvre and at Amsterdam, Dresden, Vienna
and Madrid, as well as in many private collec-
tions. Tintoretto painted a fine example, which
is in Venice; others, by Lucas van Leyden and
Pieter Brueghel the younger, are in the Dres-
den Gallery.
h= * * *
Figures for each State in the (1) 1916 and (2)
1917 Conscription Referendums? (3) Voting
of the A.J.F. at both elections? —4720.
(1) N. S. Wales, 356,805 for, 474,544 against;
Victoria, 353,930, 328,216; Q’land, 144,200,
158,051 ; South Aus., 87,924, 119,236; Westralia,
94,069, 40,884; Tas., 48,493, 37,833; Federal
Territories, 2136, 1269; totals, 1,087,557 for,
1,160,033 against. (2) N. S. Wales, 341,256,
487,774; Vic., 329,772, 382,490; Q’land, 132,771,
168,875; South Aus., 86,663, 106,634; West-
ralia, 84,116, 46,522; Tas., 38,881, 38,502;
Fed. Terrritories, 1700, 1220; totals, 1,015,159
for, 1,181,747 against. (3) 1916 —72,399 for and
58,894 against; 1917—103,789 for and 93,910
against.
* * * *
Winners of the Nobel Prizes in 1935 and
1936?—4741.
1935 : Physics, Prof. J. Chadwick; Chemistry,
Prof, and Madame Joliot; Medicine or Physi-
ology, Dr. Hans Spemann; Literature, no
award; Peace, Carl von Ossietzky. 1936:
Physics, Prof. Victor F. Hess and Dr. C. D.
Anderson; Chemistry, Prof. Peter Debye;
Medicine or Physiology, Prof. Sir Henry H.
Dale and Prof. Otto Loewi; Literature, Eugene
O'Neill; Peace, Dr. Carlos Saavedra Lamas.
* * * *
At the head of an article on cooking I came
across the following quotation from Mon-
taigne : “Je ne s<;ais qui, anciennement, desiroit
le gosier allonge comme le col d’une grue, pour
savourer plus longtemps ce qu’il avalloit.
What does it mean in English ?—4745.
“I do not know who it was, in ancient days,
who wished for a gullet lengthened out like a
goose’s neck, so that he might taste for a
longer space of time what he devoured.”
$ * * *
Can a broken marble tombstone be joined
with cement without unduly spreading out of
alignment ? Could larger parts be joined by
drilling opposite holes and joining with steel
wire staples, keeping these in place with
cement ? —4607.
To join small parts, first thoroughly clean.
Mix cement and water to consistency of thick
cream, and stand for two hours, giving an occa-
sional mix (it should thicken). Wet parts to
be joined, place water-cement paste on each
face and arrange to hold faces firmly against
each other. Do not disturb for 14 days. For
the larger pieces drill the broken faces and
dowel them, setting the dowels (nails or bolts
will do) with Portland cement paste. Proceed
as outlined.
He * * *
(1) Present value of buffalo hides? (2) Is
it necessary to lease an area in N.T. for shoot-
ing? If so, to whom do I apply? (3) Nearest
market available for hides ?— 4004.
(1) Sixpence per pound cured. (2) Yes; apply
to the Chairman of the Land Board, Darwin.
(3) Many of the hides exported from Darwin
are shipped to Coopers, of Brisbane. They
are then shipped to London, the market being
mainly among foreign countries on the Bos-
phorus.
H= * * *
Titles of books, with the names of their
authors, which have won the following prizes
since 1930: (1) Femina Vie Heureuse, (2) Haw-
thornden and (3) Pulitzer (novels) ?— 4501.
(1) 1930, Portrait in a Mirror, Charles
Morgan; 1931, High Wind in Jamaica, Richard
Hughes; 1932, Tobit Transplanted, Stella
Benson; 1933, Small Town, Bradda Field; 1934,
Cold Comfort Farm, Stella Gibbons; 1935,
Harriet, Elizabeth Jenkins; 1936, The Root and
the Flower, L. H. Myers. (2) 1930, The End
of the World, Geoffrey Dennis; 1931, Without
My Cloak, Kate O’Brien; 1932, The Fountain,
Charles Morgan; 1933, Collected Poems, V.
Sackville West; 1934, Lost Horizon, James
Hilton; 1935, I Claudius, Robert Graves; 1936,
Edmund Campion, Evelyn Waugh. (3) 1930,
Laughing Boy, Oliver La Farge; 1931, Years
of Grace, Margaret Ayer Barnes; 1932, The
Good Earth, Pearl Buck; 1933, The Store,
Thomas S. Stribling; 1934, Lamb in His Bosom,
Caroline Miller; 1935, Now in November,
Josephine W. Johnson; 1936, Honey in the
Horn, Harold L. Davis.
H< * *
Why do animals’ eyes shine at night in the
lights of a car, and why don’t human eyes
shine the same way? —46ll.
The pupils of the eyes in certain animals
dilate at night very much more than those
of man, thus admitting more light, which is
reflected from the back of the eye. In certain
circumstances the phenomenon can be observed
in man.
* * * *
Starlings which nested in the roof of a
weatherboard room built on to my cottage have
been cleared out, but left lice behind them.
Remedy ? —4287.
Spray loft or ceiling boards and board walls
with a mixture made as follows: Soak lib.
pyrethrum powder for 12 hours in one gallon
of kerosene. Strain liquid off and apply with
a vaporiser, syringe or pump, giving a fine,
misty spray, two or three times at intervals of
a few days. As this is practically pure kerosene,
a complete wetting, but not heavy drenching,
with an atomiser is recommended; there may
be a fire risk if walls and ceiling are drenched
by heavy spraying.
* * * #
Cause of and cure for prevention of “surfers’
foot’’ ?—4668.
Due to infection of the skin of the foot
by any one of several fungi, which are forms
of vegetable life allied to those producing
ringworm. It is spread by walking on the
infected floors of surf-sheds or on contaminated
sand. The disease is obstinate. One or two
applications of silver nitrate (10 grains) in loz.
of spirits of nitrous ether may give relief. In
long-continued cases X-ray treatment is often
effective. Feet, especially skin between toes,
must be kept scrupulously clean and dry. Sand-
shoes should be worn on beaches, in surf-sheds,
etc. A solution of sodium hypochlorite (1 p.c.)
is a good preventive.
H= H= * * *
(1) Is glaucoma of the eye curable ? (2)
Name of specialist who has successfully operated
for such complaint? (3) What lotion would
keep it in check ? —4686.
(1) Condition can be relieved by operation
performed at the proper time. (2) Specialists
capable of doing the work are available in all
Australian capitals. Ask your local doctor to
recommend a man of repute. (3) There are
such preparations, but they should never be
used except under the supervision of a skilled
oculist.
* * * *
(1) Botanical name of the marking nut-tree
of India ? (2) Will it grow in Australia ? (3)
Some details about the tree and its products?—
4550.
(1) Semecarpus anacardium. (2) Yes. (3)
An ornamental tree with small clustered flowers.
The fruit is a kidney-shaped drupe, seated on
the enlarged, top-shaped base of the calyx. It
is yellow and edible; so are the seeds, which in
India are salted when green and used like
olives; when fresh they are somewhat astrin-
gent. In India the oil obtained from the nuts
is used for making paint; the juice, mixed with
quicklime, provides an indelible ink, and is also
made into a black varnish used in caulking
ships.
Brief Answers.
E.C.A.: Myrna Loy, born in Helena, Mon-
tana, U.S.A., August 2, 1905, first entered films
in 1925. She appeared in “The Black Watch"
(1929)....A.B.: H. F. Rubinstein, secretary,
the League of British Dramatists, 11 Gower-
street, London, W.C.l F.A.N.: (1) Bradley
Bros., Ltd., 55-59 Wentworth-avenue, Sydney.
(2) 9in. size 30s., llin. size 32s. 6d.....
F.M.D.: (1) 3-16in. thickness plain or varie-
gated rubber flooring, sold in standard
widths of 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6 feet.
(2) Dunlop Perdriau Rubber Co., Ltd., 549
Queen-street, Brisbane; price 20s. per sq. yd.
. ...E.D.: Angus and Robertson’s London
office is at 37 Great Russell-street W.W.S.:
The State Theatre, Sydney, was opened on
June 7, 1929... .T.J.L.: (1) Goulburn 15,120,
Cessnock 14,620, Lithgow 13,510, Maitland
12,500, Lismore 12,490, Wollongong 12,300,
Wagga 12,130, Albury 10,990, Bathurst 10,590
and Tamworth 10,410. (2) There are Anglican
cathedrals at Goulburn and Bathurst, and
Roman Catholic cathedrals at Goulburn, Mait-
land, Lismore, Wagga and Bathurst... .W.M.:
See W. H. Suttpr’s Australian Stories Retold;
also the Australian Encyclopaedia H.T.W.:
Income Tax Law of Australia, by Ratcliffe
and McGrath, obtainable from the Law Book
Co. of Australasia, Ltd., 140 Phillip-street,
Sydney; price, £3 3s G.E.: Quite in order.
Motion of dissent need not be seconded....
R.G.: (1) Not necessarily, but is an advantage.
(2) Copyright Office, Commonwealth Bank
Chambers, Martin-place, Sydney. (3) 5s. (4)
See list in the Australian Authors and Artists’
Handbook (3s.)... .M.B.B.: The poplar re-
ferred to is grown in Australia, but not to any
great extent because it continually sends up
suckers. While the old tree is allowed to re-
main, suckers will continue to come up, and
we know of no method of preventing them. Can
only recommend cutting them off immediately
they show above ground... .C.W.T.: Before an
executor can administer a will he must obtain
probate. This is not a job for a layman, and
if the estate is at all large you should consult
a solicitor, who will advise you and take over
the administration of the estate. If the estate
is small and the will simple you may be able
to handle it yourself, in which case apply
to the Registrar, Supreme Court, Perth, who
will advise you. Do not know of any cheap
books on the subject for laymen... .L.B.: Lin-
coln’s Gettysburg speech was delivered on the
dedication (November, 1863) of portion of the
battlefield of Gettysburg as a national cemetery
and memorial. The battle itself was fought near
the town of that name, in Pennsylvania, July
1-3, 1863 J.L.C.: “Dog days” refers to the
period beginning between July 3 and August 15
and lasting for 30 to 50 days, the heat and
unhealthiness of which was believed by the
ancient Egyptians to be due to the rising of the
dog star, Sirius... .E.D. : Nothing is known
of the “Hornet high-power rifle” by the
Defence Department. It is unlikely that a
small-bore rifle, such as the Hornet has been
described to be, could be compared for
service purposes with the modern high-velocity
service weapon. The calibre of the service rifle
is ,303in.; muzzle velocity 2380ft. per second;
sighted to 2000 yards; weight of bullet 174
grains J.C.: That Bible is worth from £1
to £1 10s., according to its condition....
P J.G.: Any of the typewriter supply houses
will help you... .F.A.L.: Waratah seed should
be sown in wood ashes to prevent damping ofl
after germination. When seedlings develop
second or third pair of leaves, transplant into
pots and keep in fairly shady place for about
12 months before planting out. The waratah
likes fairly rich sandy soil with good drainage.
It is not a parasitic plant D.W.N.: (1) No.
A matter of a few days only. (2) Yes. (3)
No. (4) From the purely technical aspect, the
operation may be performed by any compe-
tent surgeon in any operating theatre. (5) A
matter of arrangement between the parties. (6)
A recent examination of the enactments bearing
on the subject seems to show that the operation
is illegal. And that is the official opinion of the
B.M.A J.J.: No. No other method is more
lasting or reliable... .C.A.H.: My System,
Muller (5s.). Diet —System Pocket-book (3s.
6d.) or Weight Control (4s. 6d.), both by Hay.
Write Whitcombe and Tombs or Angus and
Robertson G.M.: (1) Both “pot” barley and
“pearl” barley are very nutritious and whole-
some, containing considerable amounts of carbo-
hydrate, protein and fat. (2) Except with dia-
betics, it may be used in any quantity in broths,
stews and puddings, and as a substitute for rice.
(3) Both “pot” and “pearl” barley are obtained
by depriving the grain of its outer husk. _ With
“pearl” barley the grain is “rounded’ and
“polished” after removal of the husk....
D.W.M.; No person can be hypnotised without
his consent and co-operation. If the subject
has an idea that the operator shall not, or
cannot, induce the hypnotic state, the operator
will undoubtedly fail. Hypnosis is an auto-sug-
gestion, just as ordinary sleep is....E.W.:
Write F. T. Wimble and Co., Ltd., 35 Clarence-
street, Sydney....J.S.N.: As the German navy
has a smaller number of warships than the
fleets of other great Powers—England, U.S.A.,
France, Japan, etc. —expenditure is also much
smaller than that of those countries. German
navy expenditure appears in the annual Budget.
Revenue in the German Budget is derived, as in
other countries, from taxation (direct and in-
direct), customs duties, etc X.Y.Z.: the
Empire State Building, Fifth-avenue, New \ork,
which is the highest building in the world,
is 1248ft. high, and has 102 storeys. The Woo-
worth Building has 60 storeys, and is 7V_n.
high (Many others mailed.)


ADVERTISEMENT.
FEDERAL REFERENDUMS.
6th March, 1937.
Two proposed laws will be submitted to the electors, namely:—
1. Constitution Alteration (AVIATION) 1936.
2. Constitution Alteration (MARKETING) 1936.
You should indicate your vote separately on the ballot-paper in respect of EACH proposed
law as follows:
If you APPROVE of the
proposed law, place the
number 1 in the square oppo-
site the word “YES” and the
number 2 in the square oppo-
site the word “NO,” thus—
[T| YES
m NO
If you DO NOT APPROVE
of the proposed law, place
the number 1 in the square
opposite the word “NO” and
the number 2 in the square
opposite the word “YES,”
thus—•
YES
NO
2
1
Do not make any other mark on the ballot-paper.
VOTING IS COMPULSORY.
V. F. TURNER, Chief Electoral Officer, Canberra.
Brisbane’s Leading
Daily
THE
TELEGRAPH
has the largest sale in the
area of Greater Brisbane,
and carries the largest share
of local retail and classified
advertising.
Successful Traders
show the way
Brisbane’s most prosperous
business houses consistently
advertise in “The Tele-
graph.”
“The Telegraph” is Queens-
land owned and controlled.
Essentially the Home Paper
of the Brisbane people.
(Member of A.8.C.)
Concentrated Cover
The mass of the circulation among the mass of
the population is the cover offered by
The Courier-Mail
The rich Queensland areas of the North Coast, the
South Coast and the Darling Downs, and the Northern
Rivers district of New South Wales all come within a radius
of 100 miles of Brisbane. Within this circle resides a popu-
lation of approximately 700,000, concentrated in some of
the richest farming and pastoral areas in Australia.
This is the mass market covered by The Courier-Mail,
rich in possibilities for the National Advertiser; and here
are the circulation figures for the various areas:—
Within a radius of 25 miles of Brisbane:
43,353
Within a radius of 50 miles of Brisbane:
48,905
Within a radius of 100 miles of Brisbane:
60,781
(Average net daily circulation for six months *
period ended September, 1936, 69,837.)
THE COURIER-MAIL, Queensland’s National
Daily, offers the most complete and effective cover
of this rich market.
Queensland Newspapers Pty., Ltd.,
BRISBANE.
Sydney Representative: R. JACKSON, Warwick Building, Hamilton Street.
Melbourne Representative: R. D. FISHER, Newspaper House, Collins Street.
London Representative: A. J. CHARD, 92 Fleet Street.
Answers lo Correspondents
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will
be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on
the MS. No liability is undertaken re con-
tributions voluntarily submitted; and no MS.
will be returned unless stamps accompany.
Anon: Another of those hopeful persons,
the bane of this office, who expect Bulletin
cheques for dishing up pars, from dailies.
They never get them, nor would the public pay
sixpence to read what it has read for three-
ha’pence or twopence Eulogy of
Don a bit long for this column Bass: Ideas
there, but craft is somewhat crude F.R.8.:
Ballade the best of them, though it has a lot
of old things to say R.E.: “Banjo” Paterson
patented that metre A.McF.R.: Duel too
theatrical; otherwise yarn well t01d... .F.S.:
Some good humor there, but it’s too long-
drawn-out for the slender material R.C.G.:
You fall into the common error of drawing
on coincidence to bolster the melodrama
W.D.: Cricket-score sketch weak; dream-ending
killed the other 8.W.: Well constructed
and well written, but wasn’t the evidence against
the secretary flimsy? C.D.C.: Nothing in
that sketch C.T.R.: That Hibernian dialect
type of story has been flogged to death....
C.F. (Eng.): Romances on shores of Firth of
Forth hold no interest for us... .T.O’C.: Not
even a grin in it G.M.8.: Snake episode
doesn’t appeal Tug Tellum: Incident only
faintly humorous C.R.T.: Boarding-house
sketch has its moments, but not enough of
them L.T.: It doesn’t say anything new....
A.P.: Your treatment of that story was like
trying to get through a sonata in three minutes.
A.R.Q.: Neither story nor sketch is meaty
enough... .K.F.D.: Pioneering reminiscences
need to be packed tight with interest R.L.:
The yarn doesn’t get anywhere W.C.8.: No
market here for the undertaker’s type of
“humor” M.K.: You’re improving; board-
ing-school sketch went very close H.8.L.:
Wrongly-addressed letters an old idea; anyway,
J.’s actions are not convincing... .F.T.:
Averaged seven yawns to the paragraph....
L.M.: “I have many other stories like the en-
closed. How can I get them published in book
form?” Buy a publishing business of your own.
... .Dinky: Your effort to rhyme “carrot” with
"narrate” puts you in line for the modernist-
laureateship... .R.M.W.: As thin and meatless
as an abo.’s shin.... Remus: One convulsive
shudder and the basket was silent... .C.M.S.:
You finish up by putting your lofty-minded hero
into Parliament. That’s anti-climax with a
vengeance!....L.McD.: “I could supply you
with other poems on these lines.” Now, now,
no threats!... .R.T.: You might have your eyes
on Parnassus, but you’ve stubbed your toe on
syntax.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
J.C.: Promising, though somewhat angular
and stiff M.M.: Scratchy sketch and a dud
wheeze... .DJ.N.: Gave your enterprising secre-
tary the bird A.G.: Has some merit; tones
need to be sharper for reproduction J.E.H.:
A grand f10p... .C.M.: You have a long
journey ahead of y0u....H.5.: Still puzzling
it out A.M.L.i What did you do it with
—a currycomb dipped in tar? 0.5.: Gag
was going strong about the time of the Boer
War....F.N.: “The Canberra Zoo” is an am-
bitious but misdirected effort H.A.: Can’t
judge from copies; send in your original work.
B.P.: Did you draw it while asleep?
W.M.8.: We, too, laughed when we saw it
months ago in a magazine... .F.S.: If you ever
learnt anything about perspective you forgot
it when you sat down to do that sketch
P.R.: Desert-islander now has plenty of com-
pany in the w.p.b A. 8.: No cheque for
curate hanging from top of church steeple....
C.D.: No, we could not “find a spare corner”
for your masterpiece E.R.: Jests are too
long-winded and you make too many false starts
in your drawing... .H.N.P.: Looks to have
been drawn from in front of a smoke screen.
....J.L.: Neat sketches; make gags more
crisp... ,T.H.: One of the oldest car-over-a-
precipice gags... .A.S.: Careful piece of work;
pity it doesn’t fit in with the idea C. 8.:
Earns neither bouquets nor brickbats P.W.:
Don’t want jokes at the expense of physical or
mental infirmities J.S.: You’re slicker with
the pen than the brush, though you have lots to
learn about the handling of each H.M.F.:
jest about railway passenger milking a cow
is due for the old-age pension G. 8.: You’re
a bit late in the day with your pictorial pro-
test. .. .J. 8.: Send the awful warning to a tem-
perance rag.
‘Kriz”: French buyers who visit
Broome and Thursday Island once a
year buy up all the most valuable pearls,
leaving the cheaper baroque to the
smaller fry. Evidently they find it profit-
able to travel 10,000-odd miles, pay a
license fee of £5O and return overseas
with their baubles. The baroque we used
to sell in small parcels for the proverbial
song, and were told that “the Chinese
mix it with some stuff for treating eye
disease.” But after looking over baroque
fitted into gold circlets and sold as
“pearl” rings I’m not so sure that all
the baroque goes to China.
A MIXED GRILL.
“Adelaide”: The loss of two men
from a Finnish barque’s boat at Port
Germein (S.A.) had a grim sequel. Three
days later a 15ft. shark rose in the
harbor, shaking a body playfully. A few
shots having frightened it away, the body
was identified as that of one of the
tars. It was recovered for burial; the
other victim was washed ashore.
* * * *
Maorilander David Brown Low, who
has just died in England, went over there
10 years ago to be near his son, car-
toonist David Low. The parent Low
arrived in M.L. from Scotland as a boy
and lived in Christchurch and Dunedin,
marrying a Dunedin girl. His life in-
terests were in the chemical business.
* * * *
David Stead has done good work by
protesting in “Wild Life” against the in-
sensate slaughter of the Queensland
possutfi during the open season in July
and August. Over 2\ million skins were
sold at public auction and another
600,000 by private treaty. The London
fur trade is at the bottom of the tragedy.
Britain still allows import's of possum
skins; the U.S.A. prohibits imports of
koala skins.
* * * * • '
Craftsmen and workers in precious
metals are interested in a London
“Times” photograph of a platinum casket
dedicated at' Canterbury Cathedral. Its
beauty lies in the severity of its design
and the plain dulled surface of the metal.
A gift from Mrs. Robertson Harrison, of
Cumberland, it is the largest piece of
platinum ever worked. The angel figures
at the sides have the particular interest
of being the first to be cast in platinum.
The casket is set with diamonds and rests
on a base of lapis lazuli and white onyx.
* * * *
Ralph Maynard is off on a round-the-
world trip. Son of a N. S. Wales
Education Director, he was first a
sugar chemist, but an adventurous
spirit sent him to the South Seas as a
supercargo, and then as a sort of diplo-
matic representative for B.Ps., for whom
he visited the old German possessions
which the Japanese have since taken
over. Next he was one of Sydney’s
pioneer advertising service men ; then he
moved to Brisbane, bought a paper
that wasn’t doing particularly well and
turned it into the virile “Live Stock Bul-
letin,” which ranks as One of the
world’s best dairying journals. He was
soon known as an authority on
herd organisation, and he wrote the stan-
dard Australian dairying handbook. At
the same time he built up a first-class
advertising agency, which has numbered
the A.M.P., the C.S.R. and B.H.P.
among its clients, and he has been presi-
dent of most of the leading advertising
associations of Australia. The Bulletin
has printed a lot of verse and sound
island yarns from his pen.


DAUNTLESS JOE GODDARD
No. 7 of a series of articles
on the great Australian boxers.
In the winter of 1891 the self-described
“raw-meat fighter” who was indul-
gently recognised as heavyweight box-
ing champion of the world was in
Australia, and there was some reason
to believe that he might risk his
dubious title in a match against
an Australian. He had come not as a
fighter but as an actor, in a play called
“Honest Hearts and Willing Hands,” the
work of a certain Duncan R. Harrison.
Harrison also appeared in the production
and supplied most of the funds, which
gave out fast.
John L. Sullivan the actor is almost
forgotten, but he deserves to be remem-
bered, if only as warning to other pugs
with theatrical ambitions. The Bulle-
tin’s Sundry Showman of the period
looked him over and described him on
August 8, 1891, as “a splendidly-con-
structed customer from the eyebrows
down (albeit a little fleshy). Above, the
contract has been scamped. In speaking
he knows not the stop and wastes no
breath on inflection, but shoots off his
lines with the untutored gruffness of a
grizzly b’ar, while eyeing the house with
the even, unblinking, unthinking toler-
ance characteristic of Ursa Major.
“As a fighter he must have been a
hurricane in his dandy days, for his
blows are straight and sudden and look
as if they had a ton-weight behind them.
Anyhow, Jack Ashton, a spry, limber
and well-developed athlete, was mighty
glad to keep out of their way ; but as
the fight isn’t worked up to and doesn’t
last long, it fails to arouse any enthu-
siasm.”
The sporting man made some remarks
of his own. “John L. Sullivan said in
America that he was making barrels of
money on the stage. One moderate-sized
barrel will be enough to hold all the
money John will take out of the Aus-
tralian stage if he is paid strictly accord-
ing to results. John may be a god in
his own country, but every larrikin fully
believes that there are three Australians
at least who are thirsting to knock the
stuffing out of Johnel, and that two of
them would probably succeed. The only
possible chance of redemption for the
JOE GODDARD.
Rusher and slugger, he was a six-footer
and had a 73in. reach. At his best he
weighed 13st. 71b.
big fellow is for him to induce Bern-
hardt [then in Australia] to play Cleo-
patra to his Antony. Failing this he
should have a shy at Joe Goddard.”
And Joe Goddard was willing, even
anxious, to have a shy at John L.
Born on the Turon (N.S.W.) diggings
—birthplace also of Larry Foley, Charlie
Dunn and Jim Fogarty—Goddard had
arrived rathpr late in the fighting game,
and had known what it was to be
knocked out. Jim Hall put him down
for the count in four rounds at Sydney
in 1889. Still, it was no disgrace for a
novice to be defeated by Hall, one of
the cleverest men of his day—cleverer
than Corbett, many Americans were to
admit when the pair gave an exhibition
years later; and, anyhow, successes soon
came the newcomer’s way. Fogarty
(four rounds) and Buck (three rounds)
he beat in the same ring at Melbourne ;
Charlie Dunn and Owen Sullivan fell
before him at Broken Hill, and he twice
defeated Dooley.
Goddard and Jackson.
In between he fought his famous eight-
round fight with Peter Jackson at Mel-
bourne, scene of his second meeting with
Dooley. Neither Jackson nor Goddard
had trained properly, but they made it
thoroughly willing, and at the end one
of the judges—there were two and a
referee, Professor Miller—wanted to give
the decision to Goddard. But the
referee said it was a draw.
The long-dead Melbourne “Telegraph”
complained bitterly about that battle, the
reason being that neither combatant
seemed any the worse. “The person it sent
to make notes of the encounter expected
to see the air darkened by hair and teeth
and pieces of human wreckage, and
fancied that Jackson would drive both
his feet into Goddard’s chest, and that
Goddard would have his mouth full of
„ Jackson’s scalp and ears. As none of
these things happened the ‘Telegraph’
felt hurt. It was surprised and dis-
gusted to find that neither of the con-
testants was carried away to the hos-
pital and that the floor was not strewn
with eyes and vitals. The sort of thing
it pines after is a fight in a butcher’s
shop between a cannibal and a bulldog,
the defeated party to be eaten by the
victor and the winner to be flayed alive.”
Choynski in Australia.
And then there were Goddard’s two
tremendous fights with Joe Choynski,
whom Corbett had been unable to stop
in a long scrap, though a stone and
a half heavier.
Choynski had followed Jackson to
Australia, not to fight him, but to seek
matches with less formidable boxers.
Like the black, he had found it ex-
pedient to leave California until boxing
had been placed on an unassailably legal
basis. A considerable section of Cali-
fornians had always been against the
game, and a death or two in the ring,
combined with the too-vinous notoriety
of John L. Sullivan, had given the antis
an opportunity of making things warm
for clubs and boxers alike.
In Sydney Choynski found a peculiar
situation; something like a boom, with
offers of purses more substantial than
most of the pugs had ever fought for
before, and along with it an organised
campaign against the lawfulness of boxing
for money as a public spectacle. Some
of the daily newspapers were decidedly
hostile, and after the Dawson-Burge fight
at Sydney there was a police prosecution
of both parties, though it failed.
Choynski’s first encounter in Australia
took place at the end of November, 1890.
His opponent was Fogarty, and it was
announced that they would fight for “a
purse of £250,” which was doubtless
genuine, and “a side-wager of £500,”
which almost certainly was not. The
American stopped the Australian in 10
rounds, and The Bulletin wrote dis-
gustedly that “the loser’s end of the purse
must be materially reduced if patrons of
the ring are to witness stubbornly-con-
tested matches. Fogarty stood off the
lengthy American and played at long
shots, and, as he might have expected,
the quick left of the Melican man fre-
quently found a resting-place on James’s
anything but classic frontispiece until the
tenth round, when, amidst a howl of dis-
gust from the crowd, the sponge shot up.
Fogarty explained that it was no use his
standing up to be knocked about by a
man he could not reach.”
On the same night in Melbourne Joe
Goddard easily beat, in the second round,
W. B. Curran, son of an old-time cham-
pion.
Another of Choynski’s victims was
Mick Dooley, whom he disposed of in a
couple of rounds at Melbourne. A dis-
approving daily wrote: “Choynski drove
Dooley on to the ropes and then forced
him round to his own corner, where he
used his right with telling effect, and
Dooley went down from a blow on the
jaw. He came to his feet after six seconds,
when Choynski hit him on the neck, and
he fell again. He appeared quite dazed,
but struggled to his feet after four
seconds. Choynski, who had been hold-
ing his right far back, dashed it with
tremendous force on the point of the jaw.
Dooley fell in a sitting posture for a
second or two, and then dropped flat on
his back, his head striking the board
with a crash. He remained insensible for
four minutes. In his dressing-room now
and then he would sit down and bury his
head in his hands. It was half an hour
after the fight before he could speak
sensibly.” He survived the harrowing
experience for about 44 years.
Goddard v. Dooley.
Goddard had found Dooley more
difficult. Their first mill took place
at Sydney on June 24, 1890 ; a Bulle-
tin review follows.
“The writer has seen Dooley in a fight
with the raw ’uns show that he could
take a pasting with the best of them,
but he is of so nervous a temperament
that he is usually beaten before he steps
into the ring. Put him before one of
the middleweights whom he knows he
can beat and Dooley is a terrible pun-
isher, but directly reputation stands in
front of him he. becomes as helpless as
a child.
“Had Goddard been put before Mick
merely as a big mug from the country
in the presence of half a dozen people,
the writer believes that he would have
been smashed up in a few rounds.
“After several rounds had been fought,
Dooley went in and mixed it with the
Barrier champion, and got on to him at
will with both hands; but he had fallen
weak, and it only showed that he had
thrown his chance away in not fighting
ere his strength evaporated.
“Goddard is without exaggeration the
poorest boxer with pretensions to a
championship that the writer has ever
seen. Larry Foley at his best would
have given him all his weight and
strength in and chopped him to tatters.
Foley was at the back of Goddard, by
the way, which looks as if Foley is
going to bring the giant out; but he
will need a tremendous amount of
schooling before he becomes anything
better than a clumsy rusher.
“Goddard is inclined to be flash. He
occasionally addressed to Dooley a term
of endearment used only by mariners,
and when going to his dressing-room he
reckoned it was ‘the best sanguinary
fight ever seen in this hall.’ As soon as
Slavin comes out and teaches Mr. God-
dard a lesson, the better for his profes-
sional manners.”
Melbourne was the scene of the return
match. The date was October 30, 1890,
and The Bulletin’s account was brief:
“The Goddard-Dooley fight was still
another instance of the fallacy of taking
‘lines’ from the performances of boxers.
Jackson, against whom Dooley never
had the ghost of a show, was unable to
hurt Goddard, while Dooley had all the
best of Goddard till his condition failed
him. In the third round he felled God-
dard with a right over the jaw, and it
was widely asserted that Goddard had 15
seconds on the floor. Be this as it may,
he just managed to last the round out. The
minute’s spell pulled the giant together,
and, Dooley falling weak in front of
such terrible odds of weight and brute
strength, not to mention brutality, his
seconds threw up the sponge at the end
of the seventh round. A fight to a
finish between Goddard and Slavin
would be worth an ear to see. It would
be like a collision between two loco-
motives. Let the posters be worded
‘Slavin v. Goddard. One to be killed or
no fight. Admission £lO 10s. For
gentlemen only.’ ”
During a slack time —slack for him —
Goddard travelled up to Charters
Towers (Q.) to fight Tom Lees. Like
Jackson, he had to do a lot more run-
ning than fighting, Lees turning tail
after the first round. Goddard was still
in hot pursuit of his man in the ninth
round, when the police intimated that
they had seen enough.
Goddard v. Choynski.
February 10, 1891, was the date of
the first Goddard-Choynski fight and the
Sydney Amateur Gymnastic Club was
the place. At the sound of the gong
Goddard rushed hell-for-leather from
his corner. The American was ready
for him; with the very first blow struck
his right found the rusher’s jaw, and
down went Joe for five seconds. He was
not seriously hurt, and the men fought
fiercely till the end of the round. As
fiercely did they battle in the second
round, which was inconclusive.
In the third, Goddard was down again.
On rising he never let up for a moment,
and he came out for the fourth as if
he were just beginning. In this round
he stopped the gallant American.
Five months later they met again in
Melbourne for “£4OO and the cham-
pionship of Australia. ’ This affair was
even more desperate than the other.
In the very first round blood was
pouring from Goddard’s right cheek, the
result of a left hook which cut it to the
bone. That round was very much in
favor of Choynski. The second three-
minutes of desperate milling was voted
even.
In the third round a smashing right
on the nose put Goddard down for a
JOHN L. SULLIVAN.
As an inharmonious blacksmith in
“Honest Hearts and Willing Hands."
long count. The noise was deafening,
but here and there voices could be
heard shouting “He was down 10
seconds” ; “He’s out! ” Hoots mingled
with the cheers that greeted the reeling
Goddard. Joe’s recuperative powers were
marvellous, and at the end of the round
he was giving as much as he was taking.
The fourth round began with another
Goddard tush, but he was soon down
for nine seconds. It was Choynski’s ex-
piring effort. He had knocked himself
up trying to knock out this iron man.
Rights and lefts to the body made him
wilt. He was now gasping and trying
to box on the. retreat, but his strength
was leaving him fast. Right and left, left
and right thudded on the American’s
body and head. Finally a right on the
jaw stretched him out, and the scene
closed with the crowd acclaiming God-
dard and the loser —as plucky a pug as
ever saw victory snatched from him at
the last minute.
In four rounds of Goddard v.
Choynski those Sydney and Melbourne
crowds of 46 years ago saw more real
fighting than the Americans were to see
in 21 rounds of Sullivan and Corbett.
They were hair-raising encounters, ever-
memorable in the annals of the Austra-
lian ring for the dash, grit and endur-
ance of both men.
“Banqueted and benefited” at Sydney,
and hailed everywhere as a gentleman—
he was a Jew, by the way—Choynski re-
turned to the U.S.A. Ten years later
he knocked out Jack Johnson, though—
the police interposing and arresting all
hands —he did not get full credit for
his achievement. He had previously
(November 30, 1897) boxed a 20-rounu
draw with the gigantic Jeffries. A won-
derful fellow, and yet Goddard was his
master, and Fitzsimmons, too.
Sullivan's Substitute.
Meanwhile Sullivan had arrived. In
Melbourne, as in Sydney, “Honest Hearts
and Willing Hands” soon struck a killing
frost, and it became known that John L.
was so broke that he might have to
fight to raise the fare home. But he
knew all about Choynski, and he had
heard enough about Goddard. He de-
cided to permit Jack Ashton to take Joe
on, and this Jack did —in an eignt-
rounder at Melbourne on Oct. 21, l°9l.
With this result:
“All sorts of yarns were rife as to
the quality of cleverness Jack Ashton
had concealed up his sleeve, but attu
the American’s affair with Joe Goddar
it did not appear as if there was an>
truth in the rumors. Joe, as usua,
started to plough his way clean -
his man, and it was only by ducking a
clinching that Ashton managed to s
vive the stipulated number of roun ■
The Yankee was seconded by John •
Sullivan, but even that did not n'S
Joseph. Ashton cut by far the sor -
figure of all who have faced Goddard,
for Choynski, Dooley and even


o/ % o
7^
\S
A
A
:p'
rf** 3 '
■
as**
as*"
tjfC**
than CASH
Bunk of New South Wales Travellers Cheques are
preferable to cash. They are safer because they
can be turned into cash only under the signature
of the person to whom they have been issued.
These cheques can be exchanged for local money
in any country the traveller is visiting. They are
readily accepted, throughout the world, by banks,
principal shipping and railway companies, hotels,
stores, tourist offices, etc.
Bank of New South Wales Travellers Cheques are
issued in amounts of £2, £5 and £lO and are
obtainable at any of the Bank’s 782 branches.
'ans ops ts/v zsoiuii, smteJ.
cheques
248A.1937
*
TRAVEI
PACIFIC
CANADA
anxL
ATLANTIC
in CANADIAN AUSTRALASIAN LINERS
" NIAGARA W AORANGI "
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. LTD.
INC.
IN
N.Z.
247 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY, OR ANY TOURIST AGENT.
Ok mercury
Tasmania’s First Daily Newspaper
(Established 1854).
“The Mercury” carries regularly a far
greater total volume of advertising than
any other newspaper published in Tas-
mania. It is thus, judged by the use made
of its columns, the most popular as well
as the most powerful of the newspapers of
Tasmania. Profit by the experience of the
leading national advertisers, and place “The
Mercury” first when advertising in Tas-
mania is under consideration.
“The Mercury” is the only Tasmanian
newspaper which gives A.B.C. certificates
of circulation. These certificates show
that during the 18 months ended Sept. 30,
1936, “The Mercury’s” circulation in-
creased by 1882, and that it had reached
20,471 daily.
Full particulars from,
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable Address: MERCURY, HOBART.
Sydney Office: Lisgar House, Carrington St.
F. L. WILSON & CO., Representatives.
Melbourne Office: Newspaper House. Collins St.
F. RIEUSSET, Representative.
Plomp!
right into the
middle of South
Australia's week-
end !
65,742
COPIES OF
“THE MAIL”
Adelaide’s Leading Week-
End Newspaper!
REPRESENTATION:— AdeIaide —News
Ltd., North terrace. Melbourne —Mr.
A. G. Pike, Ist Floor, Newspaper House,
Collins street. Sydney—p. A. Messen-
ger, Warwick Building, Hamilton street.
London—F. A. Smyth, 34-40 Ludgate
Hill. E.C.4.
McCarthy knocked the tornado down
before their strength was worried out of
them.”
Naturally Goddard renewed his chal-
lenges to Sullivan. One was to this
effect: “Strap me ’ands to me sides, an’
‘ave a clout at me jore with y’r terrible
right, as they call it; an’ I’ll betcha fifty
quid y’ can’t knock me down.”
But John L. would not be drawn. He
exchanged cheques for £lOO with a Mel-
bourne sportsman (his cheque was pre-
served, and may still be among the
Bankruptcy Court archives, being listed
as an unrealisable asset when the sports-
man filed his schedule), and returned to
the U.S.A. —to be beaten by Corbett.
Corbett took 27 desperate rounds to
get a decision over Choynski, and could
have settled Sullivan in a third of the
time, though he let the old ’un go 21
rounds. Goddard twice accounted for
Choynski in four rounds. On that form
he would have whipped John L.
Goddard Goes to the U.S.A.
In 1892 Goddard set out for San
Francisco, as Jackson, Fitzsimmons, Billy
Murphy, Billy Smith and McCarthy had
done before him, and as Creedon and
Griffo were to' do presently.
He was matched with that always-
defeated trial horse Joe McAuliffe. The
California Athletic Club, still keen on
Australian boxers, put up a purse of
£lOOO. Goddard knocked the other
Joseph out in 15 rounds. Slavin had
done the job in a round and a half, as
the local boxing reporters did not forget
to remind the man from Melbourne.
In fact, the ’FrisCo “Chronicle’s” first
impressions of Goddard were rather un-
favorable. It described him as “the
homeliest-looking man that Australia
ever erupted into this country.... He
and McAuliffe in their fight exhibited all
the grace of two lumber barges. God-
dard’s neck and McAuliffe’s ribs acted
as reception committees. Altogether it
was as unscientific a type of battle as
anyone could wish to see.”
Goddard’s next adversary at ’Frisco
was Australian Billy Smith, so-called to
distinguish him from an American Billy
Smith, also a middleweight and a very
good one. Australian Billy had doubt-
less seen Jim Hall blind Joe with science
in the old Sydney days, and had per-
suaded himself that he could do the
same. It was no unreasonable supposi-
tion, for Smith had been reckoned an
excellent boxer in Sydney and had im-
proved his skill and put on a bit of
weight in California, where he is still
remembered as a trainer of champions
(Tom Sharkey among others) and a
patient and capable instructor of ama-
teurs.
Smith faced Goddard for eight rounds,
withstanding all his rushes and adminis-
tering considerable punishment on his
own account. But towards the end of
the eighth he was getting a dreadful
hiding, and the police, still mindful of
the successful anti-boxing campaign of
1890-91, ordered the referee to stop it.
That badgered official gave it a draw, and
the pugs divided the purse of £250.
Maher Pulverised.
Between fights, Goddard kept on chal-
lenging Sullivan, but by now Sullivan
had arranged to meet Corbett, whom he
regarded as a soft snap. Goddard was
consoled with a match at Coney Island
on December 8 for a £l5OO purse, the
other party being Peter Maher. He
settled the Irishman in two rounds.
Short as the bout was, the New York
“World” conceded that the crowd had
got plenty of thrill for its money. “God-
dard’s eyes,” it wrote, “were set in a
steely glare.. . .They clinched, and the
shock of their great torsos was terrific.
They hit, and the dull bruising blows
landed with a sound as though of snap-
ping bones. Goddard’s eyes glared with
a green flame. He seemed like a being
chipped from the lowest depths of
Dante’s Inferno. In the third round
Maher went down. Around him the
wild-eyed thousands bellowed and thun-
dered, while over him, clothed in a
mantle of blood, stood his grim con-
queror.”
Beaten by Ed Smith.
Goddard’s services were now in de-
mand. New Orleans, scene of Corbett’s
victory over Sullivan on September 7,
1892, wanted to see him in his hurri-
cane act, and he signed to fight the Eng-
lishman Denver Ed Smith there on
March 2, 1893, for a purse of £2OOO.
Meanwhile he devoted several hectic
weeks to having a good time in New
York. The bottle became his opponent
and he hit it hard. While thus engaged,
he had a brawl with a fellow-Australian’s
trainer, who bashed him on the head
jyith a. bottle, an artery being severed.
It' was a queer preparation for a con-
test with a fellow whom Jackson had been
unable to knock out in a five-rounder.
Goddard entered the ring in no condition
for a long fight; and a long fight it was
fated to be. Smith boxed on the defen-
sive for 10 rounds, and the rushing God-
dard wore himself out. When satisfied
that there was no longer anything to be
feared, Smith cut loose, and in the
eighteenth round Goddard was counted
out.
After his downfall, Goddard protested
that he hadn’t had a fair deal. “Give me
another go!” he said to his conqueror.
“You’ll have to get a reputation before
I meet you again,” replied the man from
Denver and the Mile End Road, whose
head had become violently distended.
Another challenge came from Slavin,
then in England. “I won’t fight beaten
men,” quoth Smith. “Get a new record.”
Nearly four years later, Goddard was
to avenge himself on Mr. Smith at
Johannesburg. Both men had joined the
rush of pugs to the Rand that preceded
the Boer War, and Smith found backers
in the influential American colony there,
as did Kid McCoy when he went to
Johannesburg to fight Bill Doherty. The
Americans regained on McCoy what
they had lost on Smith. For Goddard
found his old enemy much the worse
for wear and knocked him out in four
rounds.
No Longer Champion.
Goddard himself was past his prime.
Punishment and high living, together
with the blow to his pride and reputa-
tion administered by Smith at New
Orleans, had left their mark on him,
and when he returned to Australia from
U.S.A. in the latter part of 1893 his
friends found him different.
He cast up at Melbourne the glass of
fashion, if not exactly the mould of
form, his silk hat being the glossiest that
money could buy. He issued a chal-
lenge to box anyone in Australia for
£lOOO a side; but the land boom had
burst, most of the banks had gone bung,
and he was informed with asperity that
neither he nor any other pug could get
backing for a thousand pence.
But he did get a match—with Harry
Laing, the half-caste Maori who was
heavyweight champion of his own
islands. The raw customer whom Slavin
had knocked out in six rounds nearly
six years before had now developed into
a crafty two-fisted boxer uncommonly
quick on his feet for a 12st. 71b. man,
and with a crouch that antedated that
of Jeffries. Laing had whipped Owen
Sullivan, Goddard’s old Broken Hill op- !
ponent, at Sydney, and although it had
taken him 43 rounds to do it it was
agreed that he could have completed
the task in 12 rounds or so if he had not
slackened his efforts when he had Sulli-
van “going.”
Laing and Goddard fought at Mel-
bourne on Jan. 1, 1894. The Maori
proved much the cleverer, and, as at New
Orleans, Goddard exhausted himself by
his own efforts —he had learned nothing
from that disaster, while Laing had
learned a lot. Laing stopped Goddard
in the twelfth round.
Decline and Death.
Goddard’s powers were now obviously
on the wane, but he had a few more
fights before he left for South Africa
in 1895. He beat Quigley (two rounds),
Curran (three rounds), Starlight (five
rounds) and Kiely, one of Jackson’s
pupils (two rounds); he boxed a draw
with Tut Ryan (15 rounds), and lost a
decision to Felix (10 rounds). He was
in South Africa for two years, whipping
Dooley (two rounds), Owen Sullivan and
“The Unknown,” as well as Denver Ed
Smith, and boxing two draws with Tut
Ryan,
Towards the end of 1897 Joe was
back in America again. He was now 36,
an old fighter in every sense of the word,
and during the next three years he be-
came just a chopping-block for aspiring
youngsters. Jeffries knocked him out in
four rounds (February 28, 1898), Shar-
key in the same time and Ruhlin in six
rounds. But matched with a pug of
his own generation he showed one flash
of his old form. In the summer of 1898
he overwhelmed Peter Maher in a round.
At the beginning of the present cen-
tury, Goddard’s name still figured occa-
sionally in American ring chronicles,
though he was in sight of 40 and had
little more than gameness left. Nothing
more was heard of him by Australians
for a couple of years; then the news
arrived that he had been shot by a
colored policeman in an American elec-
tion riot. He lingered for some months, i
dying in a New Jersey hospital in 1903.
He was quite unacquainted with the
philosopher who wrote “Live danger-
ously!” but he followed the precept in
his fashion.


Things Are Looking Up
During- 1936 Broken Hill’s population increased
by 1640 to well over 28,000. The number of
men employed along the line of lode rose 742
to 4295 and the wages paid by the mines alone
soared from approximately £27,000 to £30,000
weekly.
And prospects for 1937 are even brighter.
LET. . .
" The Barrier Miner "
carry your message to this rich market —you
just can’t afford to ignore it!
Further details can be had from
P. A. MESSENGER, A. G. PIKE,
Warwick Bldg., Newspaper House,
Sydney. Melbourne.
NEWS, LTD., North Terrace, Adelaide.
p
mrncr
.;
Women’s
Supplement
“The Examiner” publishes every Wednesday a Supplement
for Women containing all the social news and specialised
features concerning the woman and the home, it is tne
woman’s own newspaper, and rivals Australia s best. It not
only reaches the home, but stays there. You can reach
the women of Northern Tasmania only by advertising
in “The Examiner’s” Women’s Supplement.
Full Information, Copies, Advertising Rates from
A
CJlembtt*
■AUDIT
«UREAU OF-
W. R. ROLPH & SONS PTY., LTD., 71-75 Paterson St., Launceston.
M. S. ALLAN, N.S.W. Bank Chambers, 368 Collins St., Melbourne, C.l.
D. N. SCOTT, 9 Bligh St., Sydney.
Serving ALL of
WESTRALIA’S
RADIO HOMES
6AM is the ONLY station
that can give you com-
plete coverage. To in-
crease your profits use
6AM
Prince’s Chambers,
William Street,
Perth,
Western Australia.
. . L
casual revelations of his past. Leo’s father had been
a professor, his mother a Belgian governess: Leo
himself had studied engineering, but while still a
youngster had been caught up in the army of Denekin
—or was it some other general? There was a vague-
ness, perhaps intentional, in most of his stories: they
began in the middle, throwing flickering lights back
to his boyhood, forward to the days when he had
drifted through China, the Malay States, America.
Yet in spite of his evasiveness, the sceptical twist of
his mind, a romantic aura hovered about him.
Those were inspiring evenings they had spent
lounging on the grass of the river-bank, he dour and
optimistic, Besanck full of puckish delight in his own
pessimism. “To believe the world progresses and man
grows better! What an idea! And how long since
it came to men’s head? A hundred years? Not more
than that. In olden days they would have thought it
a joke. And we who have seen men turn to beasts,
and all they had pride in go up in smoke we can
take it as a joke too. It is easy for you to treasure
this old-fashioned notion, Neil: you have seen nothing
fall but trees. ( And homes have grown up in their
place. But for me—no.”; . • f .
How bracing that flight voice had been, playing
so carelessly with ideas of. death and decay, pricking
your complacency, challenging things you had taken
for granted! After such talks you lay awake in your
bunk, lifted into a world above the cane, excited by
the ferment in your mind. Excited, too, .at having
found someone in whose company you needn’t hide
any thoughts that occurred to you.
Now that illusion of a great friendship slowly
opening from the bud had gone. He' was back in a
bleak, uncommunicative world where every bush and
tin shed beside the road stared at him with indifferent
eyes, every black root in the muddy rivers had the
look of a crocodile’s snout.
“Well, that’s the end. We- just co.uldn’t .click,
that’s all. No good making a song about it. No good
thinking of things you might have said to persuade
him and didn’t.”
Dust that rose from the broken road, bullock-
teams straining past with chunky logs of silky-oak,
youngsters’ voices floating over from the playgrounds
of wayside schools, pursuing him like the mockery of
jays. You’ve been knocked back, Neil Sanderson.
Knocked back.
But when he reached .the foothills and began to
climb, moodiness leaked out of him and a sheer joy
in living poured in to take its place. Faint breezes
filtered up the river-beds from the sea, taking the sting
from the sun: the rain-forest came climbing down the
slope with its cool breath and shady arches of green.
He sang, he recited snatches of verse, he stopped to
pick up loose stones and shy them at oily snags in
the swift-flowing creeks.
AT the first spring he camped to boil his quart, and,
while eating the bread and meat Besanck had
made up for him, lay with his elbow on his swag,
looking down over the country below him. Little
rivers making silver tracks through the dark scrubs,
yellow stubble where the cane had stood, clusters of
leaden-grey buildings around the four scattered mills:
and, far away, the sea, meadow-smooth, with dots
and dashes of small islands on its broad surface.
Then the squat sugar-boats making smudges in the
estuaries of rivers, and here and there, across the
whole landscape, the tin roofs of homesteads twinkling
in the sun like beads of dew. In spite of the black
patches of standing timber there was a sense of rich,
moist earth being brought under the plough.
He lay on his elbow,, sniffing the smell of moul-
dering leaves, damp fern-root, watching the cloud-
shadows, feather-soft, chase one another over the
bright green below. When his father came here, he
was thinking, there was hardly a white man along all
those rivers, except perhaps an odd fossicker with
his packhorses looking for alluvial, or a couple of
timbergetters snaking out pine from the scrubs.
“Not a real road anywhere, not a landmark to
give him his bearings. He had to make his own
tracks, find his own food, take his chance of there
being anything worth reaching ahead.”
Surreptitious pride in his father began to rear its
head. Hadn’t there been something remarkable about
the old boy after all? Didn’t it take a man with guts
to leave known tracks and tackle this wild country
single-handed? The glow of the obituary notice he
had often pondered in secret began to rouse a lyricism
in him. Pioneer! Tough, indomitable old pioneer,
facing anything that came lion-hearted, fighting your
way to the crest of this range, the head of that creek,
camping lonely at the day’s end, knowing any moment
that a whizzing boomerang, a flung spear... Remem-
bering Besanck’s mocking eyes, he pulled himself up
with a jerk.
Leo was always twitting him with making drama
out of nothing. “You, Neil, are romantic. That is
why you carry this conflict with your father about
with you, make much of it. Was he a great man —an
interesting scoundrel? It pleases you to think so,
makes you swell with dark, enjoyable feelings. Take
care! In the end you will have him a devil who
destroyed your life at the root.”
He banished from his mind the image of the
pioneer, the shambling figure in the bedroom at
Cayley’s. No need to try and reconcile them or bother
his head about whether he was justified in his past
attitude. A new, fresh world lay ahead of him. He
was going to forget he was Sanderson’s son.
Knocking out his pipe, he stood up and stripped
for a swim. A little way down the hill the water
plunged crystal-clear over smooth granite into a deep
basin a few yards round: its coldness sent a stimu-
lating chill to his very brain as he plunged into it.
He stood under the cascade, let the leaping water
drum on his head, on the nape of his neck, feeling
the memories of moist heat and burning trash being
beaten out of him. He was breathless and blinded
when he climbed out to lie naked on the sun-warmed
rock.
Whipbirds calling to one another in the dark
gully below, gauzy butterflies of peacock-blue dancing
in the bright air above him, cool shadow of the rain-
forest creeping downhill as the sun moved westward.
His body was steeped in a lazy dream, but his mind
moved with the birds, played in the tops of tall trees.
Images of bent backs, of class-conflict, drifted away.
It was. a good world as long as one took it lightly:
he had no call to feel lonely or embittered. Vaguely
he saw himself drifting from one job to another,
staying in a place just as long as he liked it, bound
by no more ties than Besanck, picking up a friend
here, a woman there. He turned on his side as a
slow, prolonged rustle pricked his senses, and watched
a large rock-python unwind from its coil on the other
side of the pool. With sleepy, hooded eyes it stared
back at him and stopped moving. At any other time
he would have been impelled to spring to his feet
and kill it, but now he lay still, gazing with sensuous
delight at the black-and-white tapestry of its skin,
the lustrous underside of its huge belly. Whatever
was combative, passionate, intolerant in him had been
damped down. The pythoa had a life of its own to
live: there was room for them both in the world!
BY nightfall he had climbed a thousand feet higher
and made his camp in a clearing overlooking the
darkened river country, in which a few lights had
begun to glimmer. Pleasant fatigue spread through him
as he watched the flames crackle around his quart:
the long road he had travelled coiled and unwound
before his eyes like the python by the pool. He had
finished his meal and lit his first pipe when the silence
was broken by a cheerful singing not far down the
track: nearer and nearer it came as he raised himself
on his elbow to listen. A fellow-traveller? But he
didn’t want companionship now.
Before long Besanck came swinging in, blinking
at the firelight that shone on his fresh-complexioned
face, his roll of fair hair. He was tired, but bubbling
with life: it was as if the climb had unlocked new
springs of vitality in him. And he was inclined to
take the defensive coldness with which he was treated
as a joke.
“Well! So I have caught you up after all, Neil.
A mile or two down there I was tempted to camp,
but suddenly—what is that? A new star in the sky?
No, it must be Neil’s campfire. I drive my legs on,
one after the other —up, always up. Lord, but you
make the pace, Neil. It is as if, you were running
away from the police—or is it just a bad conscience?”
He threw himself down on the ground and began
unfastening his heavy boots. His body was happily
tired, his mind reaching out for fresh contact. In
Neil mixed emotions were conflicting, darkening his
eyes, turning him dumb. Did he want Besanck’s
company? Not except on terms of equality: he had
to come back to that. Something had grown in him
during the day’s tramp, a sense of his own power of
self-dependence, a pride in tramping alone. And the
aftermath of the morning’s resentment still lingered
with him. “You don’t mean to say you wanted me
to wait?”
Besanck, examining a bruised heel, said with
simple frankness “No, perhaps I didn’t. I had not
made up my mind. ‘Let him go,’ one part of it was
saying. ‘You want more than anything to have
privacy.’ ”
Neil’s eyes burned resentfully bright in the fire-
glow. “Perhaps that’s what part of my mind’s saying
now. I haven’t got such a hell of a hankering after
company either.”
There was a churlish directness in his voice.
Besanck looked at him, boot in hand, surprised but
acquiescent. “You want to be left alone?”
“I didn’t say that. But I don’t see why the choice
should be all on your side.”
A faint smile flickered through Besanck’s eyes.
“Ah, you are offended, Neil. And by what 1 say,
not by what I do. You know the truth, but you
would rather 1 cover it up with a lie. That would be
decent and satisfy you. Let us be decent, then. It
is what we owe to the hypocrite in us. I move on
because a friend of mine has a farm further along
the road.”
He had stood up and taken hold of the straps
of his pack, his body light and renewed, his look
impish. Neil gave an impulsive movement. “Don't
be a damned fool, Leo.”
Besanck hesitated. “You want me to stay?”
“Why not? We’re going the same road, aren't
we?”
“That itself is no reason for keeping together.”
“Well, I want your company, if you’re so damned
intent on making me say it. I was only grizzling
because I thought you wanted to shunt me off. Sit
down, you old humbug, and spread out your blankets.”
There was a new peremptoriness in his tone.
Confidence had gathered in him: he threw a couple
of sticks on the fire, filled the quart again from his
waterbag. Besanck squatted down and untied his
pack. “Good. We have both decided it is not every-
thing to be alone. Soon we shall learn to be honest
with one another, Neil. Say what we think, do what
seems pleasant to each at the moment. Mates! No,
that is not my idea. We are two people, not one.”
That satisfied Neil for the time being. He took
the quart from the fire, pushed over the remains of
his bread and meat. “All right. I don't want to play
the old woman and make demands. Let’s hang
together as long as we can stand one another.”
He was stimulated by Besanck’s frankness, even
though it had a frosty nip in it: he felt ashamed of
his own touchiness. Two years of knocking around
hadn’t yet toughened him, inoculated him against the
feminine air he had breathed in boyhood. But he
would deliberately set himself the task of making
himself proof against draughts. A man shouldn’t be
too personal in his feeling. There should always be
something withdrawn and inviolable about him. And
as long as Besanck accepted him as a man, instead of
treating him as a boy
They lay on their sides, rolling their cigarettes,
talking of the track over which they had come. Yet
it was difficult, Neil felt, to adapt himself to Besanck’s
tone, to suppress his lyrical feeling about the rain-
forest, the waterfalls, the panorama of flat country
below, to assume a casual indifference towards the
day’s experience. Extraordinary how little Leo had
noticed in his climb: he might have been shut in by
four moving walls. There was a slight surprise in
his smile when he was asked what he thought of this
view or that. “It was a view from a mountain road.
I have seen many such.”
Always this lurking note of superiority in his
voice, as if he had been everywhere, experienced
everything. But was it merely that? Or did his eyes
naturally turn inward rather than outward? He was
ready to justify himself, quick to lift the talk on to
a plane of abstractions. Nature —was there anything
so very admirable about Nature? It was nothing in
itself: a jumble of hills, trees, rivers, without design
or significance. Only when it was arranged by human
minds could it become interesting, as in a painting.
But men poured their own emotions into it. made it
sympathetic to them. The kindly hills of one’s native
land!
“This is beautiful to you, Neil, because it has
associations. Or perhaps it is a promise it holds.
You are moved by something in your heart, in your
mind. My so wonderful country, eh? But to me—
no, I am not moved. It is all outside me.”
He rolled over on his back and lay looking at the
stars. Neil lay on his back too, even more at ease
with himself than he had been that afternoon by the
pool. Something psychical, not merely physical,
flowed across to him from that prone figure. It was
necessary to be alone, but necessary also to talk, to
expand in the company of someone who understood
that ideas were as real as horses or women.
And his outburst of a couple of hours before had
established something, helped him to reach a harmony
with Leo. He had liberated himself, asserted his
right to equality. The sense of immaturity no longer
rankled in him. He looked forward to the days
ahead, the happy tramping along the crest of the
ranges, long talks around the campfire at nights, and, it
might be, the sealing of some more permanent bond
before they dipped down to Port Cowrie.
{To be continued next week.)


masterpiece is (Perfection
J ike spirit he always serves.
I' i
m
i
ix/
r-
K
v,->
¥
(D c Calluro's
U/A/sAyJs-
sn £
I'PtM
o
(IFCallums
(frtpJiSa-
Scots CUbisky
A.
( r9V(#RI >9*l) •
DISTRIBUTORS FOR THE HOUSE OF McCALLUM:
GOLDSBROUGH, MORT & CO., LTD., Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane. GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO. Adelaide
LIONEL SAMPSON & SON, Fremantle. MACFARLANE BROS. & CO., Hobart.
POST THIS SUP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK’S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
I
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- {plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30 /-.)
X
oV-V'
.v>S
9*
e 1
AVJ V ft o
v A v .rt°
jV 1
s®' (S'
.<»<' >' ..-■•■
Jt 0> ” ,5
0<
V°
oO^
#>y
vS*
#•
v s-
O l
•‘ * 0$ set$ et -1)
■■


/
£or
/
I a
n
, a uj
t ♦
H
t)
°t e
H.Mlfc#*,
Pt>
°Pj
*P
Z££ «o» ~
tfs
**p
ev,
G^ e .,: e^O
A)
©/•
«A
**o
°*)t
s pt
}§r th
is
* l
**o
<A
ip
*ii i
e ««
iplc
,* a*
Ae A> J c °o/
e aA
<A
■ < W !
«S&
fi?3!
*bs
BY APPOINTMENT TO
H.M. KING GEORGE V.
■*z
MiMMiB
Jk
m
■ '
m
IU,,
IMT' ,
. .
’ rU;
■:
sni
V
J::&
■ - m
|ff/
i
Of ’ S ‘‘ nj '°'^it‘”^l
,S V £
■ v.
isiiiStei
. sr> „ fi&'&sz Ja *w
Jf '4ssF&2SP
INi
m
■ .
bV''''
•# . \*’j''
- ■;
i,
% >
■
' s ' l<
si
s»&>
Don't say Gin, say
GILBEYS
