

fi
d.
m
' %
I
*
os*
M
' y Wi
fi i
%
m.
k
G.L
j •-*
:J-
Stamina Counts
in the Long Run
MODERN life is only a hard, long race in which the unfit
drop out early, leaving the stayers to thrash out the finish.
Absolute fitness of mind and body is so essential to success
that the adoption of sane measures that will ensure increased
staying powers is absolutely necessary. The moderate use of
Wolfe’s Schnapps is one such measure, for Wolfe’s is both a
stimulant of the highest order and a medicinal beverage with
pronounced benefits on the system. Wolfe’s stands pre-eminent
as a diuretic, assisting the kidneys to function more thoroughly
and easily in their task of cleansing the system. Thus Wolfe’s
is directly responsible for bringing about a greater resistance
to disease, greater powers of endurance.
If you would run successfully in “Life’s Handicap,” try the effect of
** One Wolfe’s Schnapps a dag
for your health's sake ”
It is a foregone conclusion that you, too, will find its virtues of inestimable
worth.
On race days, your daily Wolfe’s
is waiting for you at any booth.
WOLFE'S
AR.OMAT IC SCHIEDAM
SCHNAPPS
‘CI Blessincj to Humanity"
m».
m
23
m
WE
'9X
■SZB 11 9 mid | : jj|
The Bulletin
Vol. 58.—N0. 3007.
Wednesday, September 29, 1937.
Price 6d.
Registered a? the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


DYMOCK’S NEW LIBRARY
CATALOGUE FOR 1937
is now ready and will be forwarded post free
with terms and particulars on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
“The Block,”
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
Visit
THE AUSTRALIAN ART
EXHIBITION
The Macleod Gallery,
Bulletin Buildings, 252 George Street
(Near Bridge Street).
Latest Pictures by leading Aus-
tralian Artists. Gallery now
reopened after renovations and
rearrangement.
ADMISSION FREE.
Tel., 87971.
S. H. Prior Memorial Prize
Fourth Competition Closes June 6, 1938.
Full particulars of this annual literary award will be published
here from time to time, or may be had on application to The
Bulletin, 252 George-street, Sydney.
For this current competition only novels are eligible, and the
Prize will be awarded to that which is considered the most
outstanding contribution to Australian literature.
The trustees will publish the successful work in book form,
and in serial form any they may deem worthy. If published as a
serial the winner will be paid for at serial rates in addition to the
prize-money. Any others used as serials will also be paid for at
serial rates.
Any bona fide Australian resident or any person born in
Australia, New Zealand or British South Pacific islands will be
eligible to enter for the competition works which must be the
original work of the entrants, and previously unpublished, either
wholly or in part, in book or serial form. Manuscripts must be
submitted under a nom de plume, and the true name and address
of the author must accompany each entry in a sealed envelope,
which will not be opened until the judges have made their decision.
The trustees reserve the right to withhold the Prize if no work
submitted is, in the opinion of the judges, worthy of an award.
If this should occur in any year, the amount of the Prize will be
added to the following year’s Prize.
The Red Page
AUSTRALIANS DO NOT EXIST.
Two years and a half ago G. H. Cowling, Pro-
cessor of English Language and Literature at Melbourne
University, in a Melbourne daily published his views
upon Australian literature being hardly possible. He
based his belief on the fact that Australia is not yet
the centre of the globe, and has no London, that the
rewards of literature in Australia are not good enough
to attract the best minds (how tragically true!); le
instanced the poor quality of book-production her
and a countryside lacking in ancient churches, castle
ruins, tradition or any memorials of generation
departed. We could, therefore, never hope, said M
Cowling, to have a Scott or a Balzac, and, besides, hac
little scope for biography, travel books or even fo
first-class novels —and so on, and so on.
In a Sydney daily Mr. Cowling now says tha
Australian literature isn’t. First he showed how
couldn’t, and now asseverates that it isn’t —hypothes s
irrefutable, solution conclusive. Mr. Cowling shoulc
hold a chair of logic. But art —the art of literatur
in particular—has to rear itself out of itself, has t
create reality out of imagination in defiance of logic
and regardless of impossibilities, until what wasn’;
becomes, and further becomes a subject for logicians
Australian literature, it must be stated 'and re
stated again, and again, and again, and again, anc
again, has to be generated from inner resource. Irre
spective of, as well as in addition to, its European
heritage, it must set up its own standards, even if ou
brightest minds do go abroad and make fortunes anc
reap all the present honors —material and otherwis
—by representing the Australian scene to suit th
London market. The ignoramusssssses who remaii
must summon up the spiritual and intellectual self
respect vouchsafed them, and, ignoring the dismissal
of literrrrarrrrrrrry geniasses or pundits of whateve
overseas authority, continue patiently to relate thei
literature to their parish, their parish to their conti
nent, their continent to the universe, until their literary
milieu emerges and grows to a Great Barrier Ree:
of indigenous works with features not all borrowed
or adopted in deference to outside dictation or subtle
compulsions. Already there are some considerable
atolls which should be pointed out to Mr. Cowling
I shall confine myself to one aspect of his dismissal
which I for one refuse to accept.
He needs novels for the classroom, and no Aus-
tralians are fit to be listed except four in discard:
His Natural Life as “too sordid”; Robbery Under
Arms as “too loosely knit and a doubtful moral influ-
ence” ; Richard Mahony as “too adult”; anc
Boomerang, which begins well, “won’t do.” I mighi;
despairingly or fatiguedly have accepted all this if
the gentleman had not also given examples of wha*
would do. I do not know the ages of the victims of
the said classrooms, but before I was ten I was read-
ing Shakspeare, Dickens, Richardson, Ingoldsby
Legends, Byron and others ; in my early teens Vanity
Fair, Trilby and Esther Waters. There was a fuss
about the last-named, so I took the precaution of
reading it under the spare-room bed, though it never
cast any smudge on my mind and its style excited
me. I have not read Robbery Under Arms since
those days, but it was stimulating to me then, and 1
don’t suppose would hurt adolescents to-day. If the
frequenters of classrooms can survive modern films
they should be able to stand up to The Term of His
Natural Life as a sine qua non of indigenous literary
culture.
As for Wister, Broster and Mary Johnson, whom
Mr. Cowling commends, I do not linger to appraise
them, but in addition to Scott suggest that pupils
should read Geoffrey Hamlyn, Up the Country,
Pageant and A House Is Built. By this means they
might develop enough nous to appreciate Clara Mori-
son —a sound and valuable classic of goldrush days
by a great woman—as well as that masterpiece (un-
abridged) Such Is Life. There is also Jonah. They
would come to 'Back to 800 l 8001, which, in Mr.
Cowling’s rating, might at the beginning be “too
adult.” I don’t think that children with parents of
average mental capacity and spiritual health take harm
from books unless they are subjected to an unrelieved
flood of the vicious and meretricious. I should let
them have nearly all Australian stories, even a tragedy
like Prelude to Christopher and a crusading essay
like Sugar Heaven, which, with certain fine sugar-
cane chapters of Burnt Sugar, gives a picture of a
part of our country and the people who run it of
which we are too unaware.
Thus our young people might grow to under-
stand their own country. Without such understanding
they must remain emigres, suffering a certain spiritual
aridity. They should become experienced enough for
our major “sophisticates” and read Brian Penton and
Miss Stead’s seven poor translated men and appraise
them from two viewpoints, the London and the Aus-
tralian. As a corollary, these points of view might
not remain so much the same, but become, with an
increase in intellectual health to the communities
involved and the extension of world culture, more
amicably and naturally antipodean.
Troy Town, by Q., Mr. Cowling recommends as
by an excellent author for the young. Instead of
Troy Town I should give youngsters Man-Shy and
Bark House Days and The Transcontinental Wonder-
land, The Lore of the Lyre Bird, On the Wool Track,
Singing Gold and some of Lawson and Steele Rudd.
Scores of Australian works could be listed were time
and space available.
A girl leaving school threw Troy Town at me:
she was not a reader, and had resented being bogged
in anything so incomprehensibly dreary. She visited
it on me because I was one of the enemies who wrote
books. So I read it, and found a piece of the most
pompous piffle that was ever composed—a glaring
imitation of Cranford, but as clumsy as a brown bear
essaying Pavlova. There are also traces of Hardy—
a dull pastiche with lineage resembling poor old
Patou’s in Rostand’s Chanticleer. It also contains
what is meant to be a coy old maid, but who is a
rampant modern when compared with the lumbering
coyness of her creator. I hardly know of an Aus-
tralian book that I would consider more effective than
Troy Town if I wanted to kill in a classroom inmate
the enjoyment of reading books of any kind for
recreation and enlightenment.
MILES FRANKLIN.
Screen Story Competition.
Big things can easily result —and probably will —
from The BuLLETiN-Cinesound’s Screen Story Com-
petition. The Bulletin’s first novel competition, won
by M. Barnard Eldershaw’s A House Is Built, came
at the end of about 20 years of what amounted almost
to stalemate so far as the Australian novel was con-
cerned. Many things had combined to stifle creative
effort during those years, principally the would-be
novelist’s small hope of getting his work published.
The Bulletin competition gave the writer a focal
point; it drew public attention to a forthcoming event,
and when something good came to light, as it mostly
does when effort is reasonably sure of reward, the
last act in creating a positive frame of mind in writer
and public was accomplished.
Since then we have had a stream of work, and
the Australian novel, after several false starts, is
permanently launched, and, of course, permanently
encouraged and assisted by The Bulletin’s S. H.
Prior Memorial Prize.
The parallel between the competitions is not
exact because film-production in Australia has not
by any means been at a standstill in Australia over
recent years. Cinesound Productions, Ltd., has itself
given the public much good entertainment, and is at
the present time in full operation, but this is the first
time that the Australian film world has publicly sought
a tie-up with the literary talent of the country.
The competition, like the one that stimulated
novel-writing, is drawing the attention of both authors
and public. It is being talked about, and will be
talked about with increasing interest.
In not asking for a scenario, Cinesound conforms
to current studio practice. The scenario writer these
days needs to understand the technicalities of film-
production. He needs a thorough knowledge of
sound, timing, lighting, camera craft and other matters
of which the amateur scenarist would have only the
sketchiest notion. He may not have—and very likely
hasn’t —a single idea for a screen play. That is what
the writer is asked to supply—the germ of the film.
Let him put it in a short story; the judges will recog-
nise it when they come to it, and the rest is up to
the technical staff.
Besides the prizes, competitors have chances for
other awards. Cinesound will buy the screen rights
of any story deemed suitable for film-production. The
Bulletin will buy any story suitable for publication.
The prizes are:
Best Screen Story, Cinesound Prize £lOO
Best Short Story—
First Prize £3O
Second Prize . . . £l5
Third Prize £5
Best Brief Short Story £5
(1500-word limit)
Closing date of the competition is Jan. 31, 1938.
Stories must not exceed 6500 words.
Entries to be addressed:
“Short Story Competition,”
C/o “THE BULLETIN,”
Box 252188, G.P.0., Sydney.
Crozier's "The Men I Killed."
This is the book that all the noise was made
about in the cables a month or so ago. As in many
other matters thus reported, the cables misrepresented
it. They dealt with only one aspect of it —the passages
in which the since-dead General confessed to having
personally killed men under him on more than one
occasion to prevent a rout. There is a good deal of
sound stuff in the book besides that, and a lot of
bosh also.
As to the General’s sensational disclosures, these
seem less complimentary to the General than to
anybody else. He might have confessed shooting his
men in the line to steady panic, and nobody acquainted
with the circumstances would have thought much
the less of him ; but there is one story he tells which
might give even those with no knowledge of war
conditions a twinge of doubt:
When treachery came upon one during the war years
in France, that treachery was open to reprisal. For
instance, the man who —admittedly in a panic—caused
me to march twenty miles after a five-day fight without
any sleep, never stole another.
He happens to be criticising the British Govern-
ment when he tells this little story, and he adds:
“But, then, one cannot shoot a whole Government.”
The Diggers would have had a name for that
sort of officer, and so would any other troops; and
the word would mean the same thing in any language.
The story, of course, with its reference to “a five-day
fight without any sleep” has a doubtful ring, but
allowing that it and the rest of the General’s confes-
sions about his own men that he killed are true, some
doubt must arise about the man himself. Anyone
who has ever been in the thick of it with a windy
companion knows the contagious effect on his own
nerves of the other chap’s windiness. The General
may have been brave enough, but he would certainly
have had a disastrous psychological effect on his men
if he were the type of man his confessions seem to
represent him to have been. In short, the worst
soldier in General Crozier’s troops might well have
been General Crozier, and as well as allotting himself
the blame for having killed the men he killed he might
well have blamed himself as the original cause that
made the killings necessary. It might be revealing to
know what nickname his men had for General
Crozier.
The book might be taken by many to be a true
picture of the war conditions in France. These will
be overlooking all the enormous amount the book
leaves out —the terrific mass tragic pageant of that
war which not twenty thousand books could encom-
pass. What the General has disclosed is only a minute
fragment in relation to the whole ; the falseness of
his book is that this insignificant fragment gets from
his rather hysterical presentation an emphasis out of
all proportion to actuality. You might as well take
that shooting of a man in a Darlinghurst cabaret as
representative of Sydney night life.
The value of the book is that it combats the still
strangely prevailing conception of war as romantic
and heroic adventuring. It savagely assails those
church leaders who speak from time to time from the
shelter of their age and their cloisters in glorification
of war.
The General had the military sense to see that
the next war will begin where the last one left off;
yet he had convinced himself that he was an out-and-
out pacifist, to the extent of believing that defence is
useless to a country, and that Britain should maintain
no army, navy or air force. It would be hard to
discover a sillier contention. It was being exposed in
all its silliness even while this book was being written.
British foreign policy had been guided by belief in
such pacifist claptrap until Britain was, for all prac-
tical purposes, defenceless. It was during this period
that pact-tearing and belligerency became the staple
of foreign news. It was while Britain was thus prac-
tically defenceless that the church leaders General
Crozier attacks and the pacifists he lauds went close
to urging the whole Empire into another war —the
war to save Leagueocracy—beside which the last one
might have been a mere circumstance.
The General had become, of course, a Little
Englander. These have no admiration for the British
Empire as a great and powerful unit in the world.
They hark back to the day when Britain had no pos-
sessions, when it was a solitary rustic isle. They can
overlook how it was then harried for centuries, with
pillage, murder and desecration. That was when the
defenceless population was only a few hundred-
thousands. A defenceless 45,000,000 would be in the
same position, if the Little Englander pacifists had
their way, except that the mass slaughter would be
on a vast scale. This certainty the Little Englander
pacifists will not accept. Despite the fact —demon-
strated while the General was writing his book—that
it was just while England’s defences were deteriorat-
ing that the armaments of other countries were build-
ing up to unprecedented strength, they believe that
if Britain made the gesture of abolishing defence all
other nations would do likewise. They curiously fail
to see what a power for peace is a strong British
Empire.
General Crozier’s disclosures about the shooting
of his own men as an anti-panic measure in the line
may surprise and horrify non-combatants, but ex-
soldiers will not be astonished, though few of them
ever personally witnessed such things. It is wrong
to represent such occurrences as common. If the
(Continued on page 8 .)


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”—AIways. “ THE SENIOR STORE”
ANTHONY HORDERNS
Famous Low Prices
I m
w X
u
m
I
mm
PBl . Blip
ftift.. .... "
2 5 *•* -ft'- *'*\'J
' * ' ft " .
- , .• :. : : .ft -.•■:•:■■.■
at: • • "'ft
' mm 1
j
$m iip^
4
Itx
:./
lifts
■mm
...
P
ft
ftft
•Ssy
? Uk
are n
■
map
1
.
*?*k
t >-
- 1
a ■
Mi
ft:
II
'[ /Iff -
Pill ifei||!iiii 1 1 ft::\ r III "
■REE#
/ I A Mk&w
ft# 1 -j fflmv g . -
'i |
i f m
rfttrrrSi
Pft
I n
fli
3F n
> i
;
.ft.
Wm&
mm
■ -■■ : .ft
I |
I f *"■*“* •> jfll
I ■; | "filling , -ft;
lip
ft' :
WMs
mm
MM
/ 1
Sy®;" ,
... ..':■.: ■•. :■ •
vl;;;pllvftft'
mmmm
mmm
$A\*,
!■
MB
mem
m
1
.
■
1
L
l
gpp
9 Men’s Wear — Ground, Floor, George Street.
Freight paid to all railway stations in N.S.W. and
seaports in the Commonwealth.
D.B. Combination O'alls
At left.— Double-breasted Combina-
tion Overalls in White or Unbleached
Duck. Riveted buttons. All round
belt. Heavy Quality Duck. Specially
made for use in service stations. Price .... 14/6
Mechanics' Overalls
At right. In Bib and Brace style. Made
from strong British Drills. Double sewn
—full, generous cut.. In Navy or Khaki.
Sizes 3 to 9£. Prices, 6/11, 7/11, 9/6, 11/9, 13/9
Combination Overalls
These are strong—cut to size-allow-
ing for plenty of freedom in move-
ment. Made from reliable drills in
shades of Navy or Khaki.
Prices 10/6, 12/9, 15/9, 18/6
Strong Work Trousers
Noted for their strength and durability^— strong
working trousers cut and made by Anthony Horderns’
experts. We have the largest stock in Sydney and
all our trousers have Highbody rise—full seat—strong
pockets. Sizes 30in. to 46in. waists (larger a little
extra). •»
/
figr
Dawn Bench Vices
Dawn famous Australian-made Parallel Jaw
Bench Vices reduced in price.
lOe
Sizes: 2i 2\ 3 3i 4L 4S 4£ 5 6
Prices: I’/6 12/6 15/- 20/6 22/- 27/6 33/6 43/6 54/-
Special Prices
10/6 11/6 13/6 18/6 20/- 24/6 30/- 40/- 50/-
ĵ
37/6 Drilling
Machine
Dawn Combined
Bench and Post
Drilling Machine
34e
to take round shank drills with
drill up to fin. in diameter.
Price, each 37/6
Special Price, each 34/6
10'6 Breast Drill
Breast Drills 1 w o
speed. Fitted with
3-jaw chuck to take
straight shank drills
9^
No. 185K. Price, ea., 10/6.
Special Price, each . 9/6
© Tools-
Lower Ground Floor, Pitt Street. Free delivery
city and suburbs only.
1/- Cutting Pliers
Strongly-made Combination
Cutting Pliers.
ft
Sizes, inches 6 8
Prices I/- 2/6
Special Prices Bd. I/8
11/- Carpenter’s
Ratchet Braces
Skinner’s English Carpenter’s
N.P. Ratchet Braces. 1 Oin.
sweep. Price, each ... 11/-
Special Price, each .... 9/9
9^
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
'PHONE M 2401. SYDNEY. BOX 2712 C, G.P.O.


A Light-Hearted Serial
NO TRAIN ON TUESDAY
By I.B.BLAIR
ILLUSTRATED BY UNK WHITE.
AUTHOR S NOTE:
As far as I am aware there is no town
of Terrigan either inside or outside N.S.W.
If there is a hillygoat named Baldy l have
never met him, and any resemblance which
he or any other persons may find in the story
to himself or themselves is entirely fortuitous.
CHAPTER X. ( Continued ).
1 HE Piemier was in a state of great agitation .
so much so that his secretary was begin-
ning to wonder whether it would not have
been better for him to have gone to the
Coronation after all —his last trip abroad
had been so restful compared with the
hurly-burly of party politics.
“Doesn’t anyone in this town work except me?”
stormed the captain of the ship of state. “Hasn't
anyone any idea of time at all? Here’ve I been wait-
ing nearly an hour and no sign of any of them. What
time is it?”
“Eleven o’clock, sir,” replied his conscientious
secretary.
“How long is it since you rang them?”
“A quarter of an hour.”
“And no sign of anyone!”
He had been standing by the window, but he
now turned round abruptly, walked over and sat down
at the table.
“This Terrigan business is past a joke,” he said
savagely. “They’re just laughing at us. What did
Bengers say?”
“That he’d be right across. He was going to slip
into the G.P.O. on the way to see the staff director
about Mutton’s reply.”
The Premier snorted in a very unstatesmanlike
manner. “Do they think I’ve got nothing better to do
than hang around all day waiting their convenience! ”
A messenger entered to announce the Commis-
sioners for Railways and Police. He received a grunt
which experience had taught him to interpret as
“Show them in.”
“Hope we haven’t kept you waiting,” apologised
Railways.
“Not at all! Not at all,” cooed the erstwhile
bear. “We’ve always plenty of work to occupy our
time, haven’t we, Smith?” —this with an affable smile
at his secretary. “Why, the morning’s barely started.
Good heavens! Five past eleven! You’d never
credit it!”
A few more general remarks and he got down to
business. “So they won’t accept the transfers! You
brought the letters round, I suppose?”
Both visitors produced envelopes.
“Dansie turned us down flat,” said Police.
“So did Buckenara,” supplemented Railways.
They passed the letters across to the Premier, who
read them through.
“Good heavens,” he groaned. “This gets worse
and worse. Look here.”
He placed the letters side by side and, pulling a
third one out of a drawer, laid it alongside the others.
“This one’s from the bank. They sent it round first
thing.”
“Gosh! They’re all the same,” gasped Railways.
“Word for word.”
“Identical,” agreed Police, feeling that the other's
description did not go far enough.
“Here’s another,” announced the Premier, pro-
ducing a fourth letter and throwing it down with the
air of a bridge-player producing a fourteenth trump.
“Napper’s reply to the Minister of Education.”
It differed from the others only in the address
and signature.
“That settles it,” the Premier continued trium-
phantly. “It’s proof positive that they’re conspiring
together. We’ll have to insist on the transfers. Either
that or dismissal.”
“It seems a bit harsh,” Police suggested.
“We’ve got to be harsh. You don’t realise how
serious this is. If we don’t suppress it now, there’s
no knowing what might come of it.”
The messenger came in again. “Mr. Bengers, sir.”
“Good.”
“Mutton’s refused his transfer,” said Bengers
before the door was closed behind him.
“We know. Read those.”
Bengers did so. “By Jove! They’ve all copied
Mutton.”
“Precisely. Or Buckenara. Or Napper. Or
Dansie. Or Bannister. Or someone else. 1 wouldn’t
be surprised if they’d run a competition among the
schoolchildren for the best model answer, and
adopted that. They’re making fools of us.”
Bengers was mildly amused. “Not a bad joke
when you come to think of it. We put our heads
together to get ’em out of the way, and they put their
heads together to circumvent us. The joke’s on us.
We’ll have to think of something else.”
“We’ll have to sack the lot of them,” burst out
the Premier.
“You can’t do that.”
“Why not? They’re conspiring against us. They’re
defying us.”
“Sack them and you’ll make martyrs of them.
It’s probably the very thing they want. Look at the
publicity the papers would give them. You say they’re
making us look fools. We’d look darn sight bigger
fools if we sacked ’em.”
“What do you propose then?”
“I’m not going to do anything—except tell the
P.M.G. to hold his horses and leave Terrigan alone.
As I’ve said all along, the whole business is only a
publicity stunt, and not worth worrying our heads
over.”
“Then you won’t send any troops down?”
“I will not. I don’t intend to jeopardise my career
over a silly business like that. Why, supposing I sent
a detachment down there and there was bloodshed —
I’d be accused of murder. And if there was no
bloodshed they’d say I was a scaremonger. No, Mr.
Premier, no troops.”
“Then I’ll send police down. Something’s got to
be done.” He looked questioningly at the Police
Commissioner.
That gentleman shook his head. “I’m afraid that
would be very unwise, sir.”
“Why?”
“Well, I’ve had no complaints from Dansie, and,
after all, he represents the police force there.”
“But he’s one of the rebels! ”
“That’s what rumor says, but we’ve got no proof.
His reports come in regularly, and there’s no sign of
anything amiss in them.”
“But the man’s incapable.”
“We’ve had no complaints of him, sir. He’s-
not brilliant, but he seems to be capable enough in
a quiet way.”
“What you mean to say is you refuse to send
police down to Terrigan?”
“I can’t accept the responsibility.”
At this stage Bengers rose. “If you’ll excuse
me,” he said, “this seems to be a private domestic
discussion, riot intended for my ears. I’ll be leaving,
if you don’t mind.”
After he had gone the Premier, with a disdainful
look at Police, turned to Railways. “I suppose you
want to give them back their Tuesday train?”
Railways colored. “Well, as a matter of fact, the
traffic has increased sufficiently to warrant it. We’ve
had to put extra carriages on lately to cope with the
rush.”
“That’s right,” wailed the Premier. “You get us
into this mess and now you’re trying to wriggle out
of it.”
“It’s a matter of business,” said Railways hotly.
“If passengers are offering, it’s my job to provide
trains to carry them.”
“What did you want to cut it out in the first place
for? Weren’t there plenty of other trains you could
have cut out? What about those damnable things
that screech past my house all night? Couldn’t you
have cut out one of those? And now you want to
knuckle under and give it back to them!”
“Business is business,” defended Railways. “If
we don’t carry the passengers, someone else will. It’s
no good turning money away.”
“Well, I can see I needn’t expect any help from
either of you. And as for that ass Bengers —not game
to send troops down! By Jove, when I’m —if I were
Prime Minister I’d show them something.”
The conference thus drifted to an indecisive
conclusion.
CHAPTER XI.
SIR HAMISH McTAGGART was beginning to
find life at Inverbannock, the vice-regal resi-
dence overlooking Terrigan Bay, a trifle dull.
He still felt a thrill of pride every time
he affixed his signature to a State document, or when,
resplendent in Highland dress, and with Angus simi-
larly attired piping his hardest, he took the salute at
the weekly Sunday demonstration, but in between
times he found his time dragging.
There was no stream-fishing of the type he was
accustomed to, and his advisers would not permit him
to go fishing in the Bay unless he was accompanied
by half a dozen retainers who insisted on baiting his
hooks, untangling his lines, holding landing-nets ready
for his catch—in fact, doing everything except put the
fish on the hooks for him. Sir Hamish had probably
never (despite his Jacobitism) read of the divinity
which hedges a king, but he was beginning to find
that the hedge around himself was of very stout and
prickly growth.
Few visitors were permitted to speak with him,
and they were invariably accompanied by Peperell,
Napper or another member of the Cabinet. It there-
fore came as a pleasant surprise, promising a little
change in the routine, when Angus one afternoon
announced that there were “Twa str-rangers t’ see
ye.” He handed the Governor a couple of visiting
cards
“Elias Trimble,” read the Laird. “Ah wonder
who that micht be? An’ Hurtle Hotson? Did they
say frae whaur they come?”
“Frae Sydney,” replied Angus. “Though they
look tae me as if they coom frae Aberdeen, the auld
sobersides.”
THE BEGINNINGS OF THE REVOLT.
Terrigan, a small N.S.W. South Coast town,
has had its Tuesday train service discontinued;
at a meeting of protest the people of the dis-
trict decide to secede from New South Wales
and the Commonwealth.
Hiram Pettigrew, an American million-
aire pickle-manufacturer with a grievance
against the Sydney traffic laws, staying in Ter-
rigan, offers to guarantee its share of the
national debt.
Jerry Bannister, a young lawyer, started
the whole thing as a joke. He brings out from
Scotland Sir Hamish McTaggart, a staunch
Jacobite, who, persuaded that the appointment
comes from Rupert {“the King-over-the-
water”), agrees to act as Governor of the.
Dominion of Terrigan.
When jerry returns the revolt is in full-
swing, a Parliament has been formed, and
Pettigrew’s daughter Sally has arrived.
Terrigan enters on rebuilding operations
commensurate with its new-found dignity.
Sally, whose father is providing all the money,
thinks that he is likely to be ruined.
In Sydney and Canberra the Governments
are perturbed at the possibilities of the revolt.
They try to transfer all the departmental
officers in Terrigan. To complicate matters,
the Prime Minister and the Minister for
Defence are in London for the Coronation
celebrations.
Prominent among the Ministers of the new
Dominion are : —
Mr. Napper, the schoolmaster; Mr.
Peperell, the shire president (now Chief Man);
the postmaster, Mr. Mutton ; Bannister
senior, the bank manager; and the station-
master, Mr. Buckenara.


“Bring them in, Angus, lad. Ah’ll see them.”
A few moments later the two visitors entered.
“I am Mr. Trimble,” announced one, as if daring
the Governor to deny it, “and this is Brother Hotson.”
“Och! Aye! ” quoth Sir Hamish. “Sit ye down,
ma frien’s. Sit ye down.”
The guests obeyed.
“An’ what can I do for ye?” asked the Laird.
Mr. Trimble, who appeared to be the leader, or at
any rate the spokesman, of the delegation, replied:
"We thought we’d like to welcome you to Australia,
Sir Hamish.” Sir Hamish beamed. “And to tell you
the movement is very strong here.”
“The movement? What movement?”
Mr. Trimble smiled benignantly. “The movement
to which you and ourselves owe common loyalty.”
The Laird’s eyes lit up. This was totally
unexpected.
“You mean that you belong to —the Cause?” he
asked excitedly.
“We certainly do. And it’s a cause worth belong-
ing to, and worth fighting for, isn’t it?”
“Aye, that it is!”
“We were wondering,” continued Mr. Trimble,
“whether you could spare the time to run up to Sydney
one evening and address a meeting there?”
“A meeting?”
“Yes, you know the sort of thing. A big rally
and drive for more members. We thought an address
from an overseas brother would be a big drawcard.”
“What wud ye want me tae speak aboot?”
“Oh, just a general talk on the aims of the move-
ment and its progress in Scotland. Nothing difficult.
It would help the cause tremendously, Sir Hamish.”
Sir Hamish was in a whirl. Jerry had told him
of the necessity for keeping silent about Rupert and
the Jacobites, yet here was a man asking him to
address a public rally.
“When wud ye be wantin’ me?” he temporised.
Mr. Trimble brightened expectantly. “Well, we’re
holding an inter-State conference next week. We’ll
have delegates there from all over Australia. Perhaps
you would be so kind as to honor us with a visit on
that occasion?”
“A’ over Australia? But wull the Gov’ment
per-rmit it? Willna they object?”
The two visitors looked at him blankly. “Object?
Why should they?”
“Well, Ah thocht it might be a wee bit awkward
when ye came tae toast th’ King ower th’ water.”
The delegates conferred for a moment in under-
tones. “What’s he mean? I can’t understand his
Scotch lingo.”
“I think he’s afraid the Government might object
to our drinking the King’s health in lemonade.”
“Oh! Is that it?” Then Mr. Trimble replied
aloud: “Don’t worry about that, Sir Hamish. Why,
the Premier and some of the Ministers will be there
at the meeting.”
“Ma guidness. Ah didna know the movement
was sae strong.”
“It’s getting stronger every year,” said Trimble
proudly.
“Every day,” added Hotson.
“Ah wud never ha’ credited it,” said the astounded
Sir Hamish. “Th’ bonnie Rupert must hear o’ this.”
This remark was over the heads of the delegates,
so they let it pass, and Trimble asked: “Can we
count on you, sir?”
The Laird hesitated a moment, but felt that in
the face of such overwhelming facts Jerry’s advice
might safely be disregarded.
“A’ richt,” he said. “Ah’ll be glad tae come
alang.”
“Splendid! Would Wednesday night suit you?
That’s the night of the big rally.”
“Aye! ”
“Then we’ll send a car down to bring you up.
And might we express our extreme gratitude for your
courtesy?”
The Laird sneezed violently, evidently to indicate
that they might. Mr. Hotson, who had been silent
so far, now spoke up.
“Later, we trust, Sir Hamish, you will help us to
form a tent in Terrigan. There is none here, is there?”
“No what?”
“No tent.”
“I havena noticed any,” replied the Laird, “except
at t’ week-ends when the tourists crowd oot th’
lodging-hooses, but if ye want one na doot it can be
arranged.”
The last part of his reply was satisfactory even if
the middle was a bit obscure, so Mr. Hotson expressed
his thanks.
“Well, we must be going now,” said Mr. Trimble.
“Thank you again ; and we’ll look forward to seeing
you next week.”
“Aye, indeed, but will ye nae stay ta supper?”
The visitors regretted they could not. Their car
was waiting, and they were expected back in Sydney.
“Weel, bide just a moment.” The Governor
pressed a bell-push.
Whether Angus was a genuine thought-reader,
or whether a code of signals existed between him and
the Governor, is of no importance, but a moment later
the old piper entered with a tray holding three
whiskies. With a glance at his master he offered the
tray to the two visitors, who each took a glass. Sir
Hamish took the remaining one, and raising it aloft
said reverently. “Th’ Cause!”
"Stop!” cried Trimble in horror.
Sir Hamish lowered his glass, and there came
over his face the look of an angry lion that has had a
juicy antelope snatched from its jaws.
“You’re not going to drink that dreadful stuff?”
said Mr. Trimble in awe-struck tones.
“It’s the best brew in a’ Scotland,” said the Laird
indignantly.
“It —it’s whisky!” shuddered Mr. Hotson.
“Ma certie it is, and there’s none finer in a’
th’ wor-rld.” Sir Hamish spoke as though a mortal
insult had been put upon him.
Mr. Trimble walked to the open window and
deliberately threw the contents of his glass on to the
garden outside. Mr. Hotson made to follow, but with
a howl of anguish Angus was upon him and seized
the glass from his hand.
“ ’Tis sacrilege! ” he panted.
Sir Hamish still stood, glass in hand, a study in
arrested motion.
“Do you mean to tell me, Sir Hamish,” he said
sternly, “that you drink that stuff?”
For answer the Laird swallowed the contents of
his glass at a gulp. “What about your pledge?”
“Ma pledge?” spluttered Sir Hamish.
“Yes. You’ve taken our pledge, haven’t you?”
“Aye. Ah took it frae Mr. Lovelock at White-
well, but what has that tae do with drinking whisky?
Are ye mad, mon?”
“But it’s against the whole principles of the
movement. How can you, a whisky drinker, claim
to be a true Rechabite?”
“A true what?”
“Rechabite! ”
“The Cause!”
“Ah never claimed tae be a Rechabite! Ah'm no’
a Rechabite, and Ah never intend tae be a Rechabite.
Ah’ve drunk whisky a’ ma’ life, an’ Ah’ll drink
whisky till Ah dee!”
“Amen!” applauded Angus.
Mr. Trimble stood aghast and bewildered. Mr.
Hotson stepped into the breach.
“It seems there’s been a mistake,” he began.
“Th’ mistake’s a’ yourn,” said the Laird heatedly.
“Ah never invited ye an’ Ah’m no’ asking ye ta stay.”
Both delegates had retreated to the door. Mr.
Trimble rallied a little. “Er—er, I need hardly add.”
he began, “that —er —in the circumstances the arrange-
ments for next Wednesday may be considered —er —
cancelled.”
“They may!” snorted Sir Hamish. “Throwing
guid whusky awa’! Ah’d never speak for any man
after that.”
As the visitors drove off, the two Highlanders
raised replenished glasses to indignant lips.
“Th’ Cause! ” repeated the Laird.
“Aye. Th’ Cause!” echoed Angus, adding as he
wiped his lips, “th’ crazy loons.”
K/j R. NAPPER surveyed the school-house disapprov-
-IVI ingly. When as a young man he had first come
to the town he had admired the neat, compact brick
building, and as the years passed by he had come,
despite his eternal grumblings against authority,, to
regard it with affection. Since the rebellion, however,
his feelings had undergone a change. The sight of
the new Hotel Royal, the Eden Guest House, the
half-completed chalet, and the extra rooms that were
being added to every third house in Terrigan had
awakened within him a spirit of envy.
The school had been built in the ’seventies, and
its grey walls were mellowed by the weathering of
many winters. Mr. Napper, since his appointment as
Minister for Education, had looked with growing
displeasure upon his headquarters. As an old land-
mark it still held his esteem, but as the seat of learning
for the new Dominion he considered it hopelessly
outmoded.
After some weeks of silence on the subject, he
took counsel of Mr. Mutton and found a willing
convert.
“It’s certainly time we both had new premises,”
he said. “The old buildings make the town look hope-
lessly behind the times.”
They agreed to bring up the matter in Parliament,
and seized the first opportunity of doing so.
The House was in session at the School of Arts
when Mr. Napper introduced his bill for an Act to
Bring Up-to-date Certain Public Buildings of the
Dominion, to wit, the General Post Office and the
Public School.
His speech in support of his bill was well re-
ceived, as was that of Mr. Mutton, who followed.
Members were getting used to voting money for town
improvements, and up to the present they had not had
to worry about the source of the money.
Mr. Mutton had barely resumed his seat when
the Colonial Treasurer, Mr. Hiram Pettigrew, was on
his feet, redfaced and indignant.
“It’s a blasted waste of money!” he shouted.
‘'Order! Order!” cried members.
“I must ask the Colonial Treasurer to confine
himself to Parliamentary language,” said Mr. Peperell,
who combined with his office of Chief Man that of
Speaker.
“I take back the blasted,” retorted Hiram. “But
it's a waste of good money. That Post Office is good
for years yet, and so's the school. These high-hat
notions get my goat. Where’s the money coming
from? That’s what I want to know!”
The Minister for Education replied that it would
come out of consolidated funds.
“Like heck it will!” retorted Hiram. “You
know where it’ll come from as well as I do. What 1
meanter say is, you think you know where it’ll come
from. But you’ve missed your guess, big boy, ’cause


it won’t at all. See?” With which perfectly clear
and concise utterance, he resumed his seat.
Mr. Napper rose on a point of reply. He pleaded
that the Colonial Treasurer had opposed the bill on
unstated and unreasonable grounds. The town needed
the new edifices, he claimed, was crying out for them.
The dignity of Terrigan demanded them.
This evoked an angry snort from Hiram. “Dig-
nity ! Huh! ”
Were their children to be taught in a ramshackle
out-of-date building? continued Napper. Could they
be expected to transact their postal business in anti-
quated premises which the town had outgrown?
“Our post office is making us the laughing-stock
of the civilised world,” he proclaimed. “Shortly, when
we issue our own postage stamps and information
about us is eagerly sought by the philatelists of the
world, imagine how we shall hang our heads at the
knowledge that photographs of our poor dilapidated
post office are appearing in newspapers and magazines
in Europe and America! And our school is no better.
Both unworthy of the Dominion and a blot on its
escutcheon. Surely our dignity is worth maintaining.”
Hiram interjected several times until the Chief
Man threatened to name him.
The bill passed the first and second readings.
Mutton and Napper left the House feeling very pleased
with themselves. Hiram Pettigrew left in a state
bordering on fury.
There was a Cabinet meeting that evening, and
even the good dinner provided by the Hotel Royai
had been unable to calm the feelings of the Colonial
Treasurer to any noticeable extent.
“What do you guys take me for?” he demanded.
“D’you think I’m just a meal ticket?”
There were indignant protests from all sides, but
as far as their effect on Hiram went they might just
as well have been a chorus of defiant affirmatives.
“Well get this, buddies. I’m no sucker, and y’
can’t put this over me. No, sirs! Not over Hiram
Pettigrew. Th’ best brains in Cincinnati slipped on
that, so I guess a bunch of small-town hicks like you
can’t do it. And that’s me talking—Hiram Pettigrew.”
The Chief Man tried to pour oil on the troubled
waters by remarking that the bill had yet to come
before the House for the third time, and that Mr.
Pettigrew would have every opportunity to voice his
protest then.
“Protest!” snorted Hiram. “Fat lot of chance
you give a guy to protest. Parliamentary language an’
high-hat talk! Y’ don’t even give a man a chance to
say what he thinks.”
“Well, of course, the dignity of the House must
be preserved,” interposed Mr. Napper. “I’m sure
we’re all agreed on that.”
“Dignity be gold-darned! All you ginks can
think about’s dignity. Wish I had you in my pickle
factory for a few weeks. I’d show y’ something about
dignity.”
Jerry endeavored to get a word in. He had been
absent from the House when the bill was brought up,
but he would certainly have opposed it.
“Is it really so necessary to build anew school
and post office?” he asked.
“Look how the town’s growing,” urged Mutton.
“When I left school, only a few years ago,”
replied Jerry, “there was plenty of room in the school,
and there had been all the time I was there. There’s
been no big increase in the population over the last
few years. It should still be big enough.”
“We must move with the times and look ahead,”
the Minister for Education claimed. “Terrigan’s
going ahead by leaps and bounds, and we must be
ready for it.”
“Hear, hear,” applauded the Postmaster-General.
“We owe it to the children. We must give them
something to be proud of. And it’s the same with the
post office. It was all right in its time, but it’s hope-
lessly out-of-date now. Why, I almost feel ashamed
to go into it after looking at the Royal.”
“There’s no need to be ashamed of it,” growled
Hiram. “It’s paid for, anyway.”
The other members of the Cabinet had little to
say, and the discussion boiled down to the two mal-
contents on one side, with Hiram and Jerry on the
other, and the Chief Man playing his usual role of
trying to please both sides and offend no one.
The argument grew a little fiercer and took on
a nastier tone.
“Of course,” said Mr. Napper, “if the Colonial
Treasurer thinks the funds of the Dominion from
ordinary sources are insufficient to meet the expendi-
ture, a loan would have to be arranged elsewhere.”
“Ordinary sources! ” spluttered Mr. Pettigrew. “I
like that! Well, I’m fed up. Y’ can take it from me
that ordinary sources have dried up, closed down or
whatever y’ like to call it. Raise your loan if you can,
y’ big sap. But you’ll git no more outer Hiram
Pettigrew. I’ll quit th’ whole darn’ thing. You and your
Dominion! A cranky old Scotchman with a crazy
piper calling himself Governor, and a lot of apes play-
ing Congresses. Write me off! I’m through!”
He stormed out of the room.
There was consternation at the council table.
This was quite unexpected, and no one knew what to
suggest next. Jerry slipped out quietly after the
American.
“Could you come up to my room for a yarn, sir?”
he asked affably, having run his quarry to earth as he
entered that haven of refuge the Royal lounge.
“It’s no good, Jerry. You can’t talk me out of it.
I know when I’ve had enough and I’m quitting.”
“I’m not going to try to talk you out of it,”
replied Jerry, “but come along upstairs. Too many
people down here, and the others are bound to be
along if we stay.”
The possibility of having to meet Napper and
Mutton again turned the scale, and Hiram went.
Jerry allowed Pettigrew to pour out his pent-up
troubles against the Minister for Education and Post-
master-General. He entirely agreed with him, and
thought that the pair were going too far in their
schemes for the aggrandisement of the town. At the
same time he did not want Terrigan to lose its backer
yet awhile.
The position was further complicated by his own
feelings of responsibility for the whole business. He
had not at the beginning intended the secession idea
to be taken seriously. It had seemed a first-rate joke
to work up popular enthusiasm to the point of passing
the motion and communicating it to the Government.
But that the thing should be carried to the point of
actually seceding had certainly not entered his head.
When the audience at the meeting took up
Taylor’s suggestion with enthusiasm he had felt that
all was going well for the most amusing joke in the
history of the town. Then, just as old Peperell was
putting the damper on the whole plan, Hiram Petti-
grew had come forward with his amazing offer of
funds. Jerry, fearing the whole thing was about to
collapse, had seized on this, and the enthusiasm of
the crowd had done the rest —it had carried Jerry
away on its crest with the rest of Terrigan, and he
had awakened to find himself on a committee pledged
to secession, with funds guaranteed and lacking only
a Governor.
Since his return with Sir Hamish he had had
many misgivings, but the taste of power, the sense of
achievement and, perhaps above all, the joy of the
fight had kept him working with all his might for the
rebellion. He dared not let himself think what would
happen after it was over, but worked heart and soul
for its present success.
Hiram’s part in it caused him the most concern,
for the American was staking a considerable sum on
the venture, and although he was a millionaire many
times over Jerry did not like to think of his losing a
small fortune .for the sake of a town which had no
claims upon him. Napper and Mutton, it seemed,
expected his bank account to be an ever-open sack of
gold into which Terrigan might dive a hand at will.
There was Sally to think of, too. The obvious
scorn with which she treated him, as well as her out-
spoken remarks, showed that she thought he, too, was
merely bleeding her father for all he was worth. He
wanted the scheme to continue to a successful con-
clusion so that he could prove to her that the invest-
ment had been a sound one.
The money advanced for the additions to the
Royal and Eden and similar expenditure did not
worry him much. Now that the tourist influx had
definitely begun, it looked as if that investment was
going to be quite a safe one, and in any case Petti-
grew held mortgages to cover it. As for the American’s
guarantee of the National Debt, well, he had done that
voluntarily and without prompting. But the innumer-
able petty items that were becoming a constant drain
on Pettigrew’s purse caused Jerry considerable qualms
of conscience. The rebellion, intentionally or not, was
of his inspiring, and he felt in a way responsible to
Hiram. Finally, the latest suggestions of Napper and
Mutton, he realised, were unnecessary extravagances,
and he was entirely in sympathy with the American’s
attitude.
“Thanks for backing.me up, boy,” said Hiram
after they had made themselves comfortable in the
lawyer’s room. “Those ginks are plumb crazy.”
“I’m terribly sorry, Mr. Pettigrew,” replied Jerry.
“I’d never have believed that men could be such fools.
Here you’ve been backing the whole venture and they
show not a spark of gratitude.”
“I don’t want gratitude,” growled the American.
“I came into this stunt to get my own back on y’r
. Government an’ those persecuting hoboes of police,
and I wasn’t going to kick at paying for it. I’ll back
y’r lousy town for anything in reason, but this school
and post office racket’s goin’ too far. Those two crack-
brained guys think they’re running the Yewnited
States or something, th’ way they talk.”
“It’s a darn shame,” agreed Jerry. “They’re both
fine chaps in their way”
“Pretty funny way!”
“Or rather they were till this business started.
It’s the old story of a little bit of power going to
people’s heads. They’re both so puffed up with self-
esteem they can’t see any viewpoint but their own.
I suppose I’m to blame for that, too.”
“How d’yer mean —you’re t’ blame?”
Jerry explained his position.
“Don’t bust y’r head over that!” counselled
Hiram. “That’s their funeral.”
“But I started it and”
“Nerts! You mighta taken the first step, but I
guess you’ve had to run to keep up with ’em since.”
“Anyhow,” said Jerry with sudden resolution, “I’m
going to catch up with them now. I won’t let them go
through with this.”
“No need to worry over that, buddie. It’s all over
as far as Hiram Pettigrew’s concerned. I’m through! ”
Jerry poured out another whisky for Pettigrew.
“Soda?”
“Thanks . . . Hey! That’ll do, buddie. Don’t
drown it!”
“Sorry.” Then, “You don’t mean to say, sir, that
you’re going to walk out on us altogether?”
“I sure do. Just that.”
“But what about your revenge on the police?
The whole rebellion’ll collapse without you.”
“Don’t worry about the police. I can fix them
good and plenty later. The ones I want to see fixed
at this identical moment are that long streak of
misery Napper and that grinning-faced Mutton.”
“But all the money you’ve put into the town?
If you hold on a bit longer the tourist traffic will be
secured for good and all, and your investment will
be as safe as houses. Pull out now and you may lose
the lot.”
“It’ll be worth it, just to see those two guys put
in their places. I won’t grumble.”
“I can fix it so there’ll be no more talk of new
schools and post offices. I’ll speak to Peperell and
Taylor and Greville, and the others, and we’ll block it.
You won’t be worried from now on.”
“Too late, boy, I’m through.”
Jerry’s eloquence, which had got him out of many
tight corners, seemed to be failing him in this critical
moment. He advanced all sorts of arguments why
the millionaire should remain in Terrigan ; he pleaded
and cajoled, but all to no effect. Pettigrew had made
up his mind, and was not to be shaken.
At last Jerry appeared to give it up.
“Well, I don’t blame you for one moment,” he
said. “It was dashed decent of you to help us at all,
and after the way you’ve been treated you’d be foolish
to stay any longer. We don’t deserve it.”
“Sure you don’t! At least, you do. but these
other ginks don’t. Son, I like you and I like your
old dad, and I’d do a lot for you both, but for those
guys, no! Not me!”
“It’s bad luck for Terrigan, sir, but I suppose it
can’t be helped. After all you’ve got your life to
lead and you can’t be expected to worry about us.”
Hiram made a sudden stab towards Jerry with
his cigar.
“Look here,” he challenged, “when are you going
to start work?”
Jerry colored. A Sydney practice was his inten-
tion, lack of funds his drawback ; and he had been
making the rebellion an excuse for postponing the
decision to make a start.
“I want to start practice in Sydney before long,”
he said.
“P’raps I could give you a job. Seems I might
start a pickle factory there, or in Melbourne.”
Visions of himself cutting up cauliflowers or
putting onions carefully into jars flashed through
Jerry’s mind, and he was for a moment at a loss for
an answer. The American divined his thought and
hastened to correct it. “I’m not offering you a job in
the factory. Don’t s’pose you’d be worth two bucks a
day to me there. A guy has to be trained f’r that
same’s anything else. But you’re a lawyer and I’ll
want someone to fix my legal affairs. You can have
it if you like. Might help for a start.”
“It certainly would,” breathed Jerry. “By Jove,
that’s decent of you, sir.”
“Gotta match?” asked Hiram, fumbling em-
barrassedly.
The young lawyer took the hint and offered no
further thanks.
“Well, that’s that!” said Hiram. “Guess I’ll go
back to Sydney to-morrow and start looking around.
When you open your office there, let me know.”
“Thanks,” replied Jerry. “To-morrow,” he mused.
“My word, Miss Pettigrew will be pleased.”
Hiram started. “Heck! I forgot about Sally.”
“She’ll be glad you’re dropping the scheme. She’s
hated your being in it at all. Thought you were being
taken in.”
Pettigrew was not taking much notice of Jerry’s
remarks, but seemed to be suffering inwardly.
“She accused me the other day,” continued Jerry,
“of taking advantage of an old man.”
“Old man,” muttered Pettigrew. “Advantage!”
“She’ll be glad it’s all over before you’re too
heavily involved. Though, of course, you have sunk
a fair sum. Still, you never know. Some of it might
come good yet.”
Pettigrew was still brooding.
“It’ll be a relief to her to leave Terrigan,” Jerry
went on, “and to have you putting the money into a
sound business. After you’ve left I’ll”
“Who’s leaving?” roared Pettigrew.
“Why, I thought you said”
“I’m staying right here. D’you think I’d walk
out in th’ middle of a job? That’s not me! When
I’m in, I’m in. Just because I jib at putting up the
dough f’r a crazy school an’ a phony post office, you
think I’m gonna quit! I’m not quitting! I’m staying
right here t’ see this job through.”
Jerry took a big risk. “I really don’t think you
ought to put any more money into it. After all, it’s
not your quarrel, and Miss Pettigrew thinks”
Pettigrew interrupted. “Bunk! I’m sticking by
you. If it’s that job you’re worrying about, forget it.
That’ll be all right later. We gotta see this through
first.”
“What! You’ll really stay?”
“Ain’t that what I bin trying t’ tell you? Gimme
another highball and let me go t’ bed.”
CHAPTER XII.
THE crisis which had threatened to bring the
history of the new dominion to an abrupt
conclusion being thus successfully avoided,
Terrigan threw itself wholeheartedly into pre-
parations for celebrating in a fitting manner King
George’s coronation.
As the subject was to be discussed in Executive
Council, Jerry’s ingenuity was taxed to the uttermost


to evolve ways of preventing a clash between the
Jacobite Governor and a Cabinet oozing over with
loyalty to the Throne. As Sir Hamish’s sponsor he
had assumed the position of a sort of liaison officer
between the Governor and the Ministry, and was the
interpreter to the latter of the Governor’s desires. He
had early warned them against mentioning King
George by name.
“The Throne,” he explained to them, “is to Sir
Hamish something everlasting, eternal, irrespective of
its occupant. You may speak of the King or his
Majesty or even of Our Royal Sovereign, but never
mention his name. It isn’t done, according to Sir
Hamish.”
As he had similarly warned the Laird not to
breathe Rupert’s name, this got over one great diffi-
culty, and if in Council the Governor occasionally
referred to “th’ braw Leddie” it was accepted that
the reference was a mark of affection for the House
of Windsor.
Nevertheless, the situation was a ticklish one. At
first Sir Hamish was loath to agree to any celebrations
at all, but Jerry pointed out that, with universal rejoic-
ings in every other town in Australia, Terrigan could
not possibly stand aloof, especially as it was so much
in the public eye.
“After all,” he said, u isn’t the actual
celebrations that count. It’s the spirit behind
them. You can participate as much as is
expected, and as long as you don’t mean any
Dignity, be gold-darned! All you ginks can
think about's dignity.”
harm or disrespect to King
Rupert you’re doing him no
harm and showing him no
disrespect.”
The Laird was doubtful.
“Remember,” Jerry went
on, “we’ve got to do some-
thing. We’ll be expected to
celebrate, so we’ll have to.
Eut there’s no need for the
rest of Australia to know
what it is we’re really cele-
brating. If we cheer for the
King, who’s to say what King
we cheer for? If we have
the town decorated with pyrotechnic portraits
of King George it all depends on the point
of view whether we are honoring him or adopting a
modern way of burning him in effigy. What we intend
is what counts.”
To a Jacobite who had all his life been accus-
tomed to expressing loyalty to his Cause by circum-
locution and subterfuges such as passing his glass over
a jug of water, the ingenious argument sounded
almost convincing.
“And remember,” Jerry added, “we have to be
careful. George’s spies are everywhere. A false step
now might ruin everything.”
Sir Hamish gravely agreed.
Another thing, too, occurred to make the Coro-
nation problem simpler. It was decided that the time
had come to proclaim the revolution to the world. No
action had followed the dispatch of the letters refus-
ing the transfers, so it was concluded that the time
was ripe for taking the final step.
An Act of Independence was drawn up and
passed, and only awaited the Governor’s assent. The
plan was for Sir Hamish to sign the Act and Declara-
tion on the eve of Coronation Day. Copies were to
be immediately sent to Canberra and Sydney by special
courier, and Coronation Day, in addition to being an
occasion for celebrating the crowning of a King, would
also be given over to public rejoicing as Terrigan’s
first day of official independence.
“Now we can celebrate to our hearts’ content,”
Jerry told Sir Hamish, “and like it!”
The Laird was thrilled at the idea and the chance
it offered him of reconciling his conscience to the
celebrations.
'“P ERRIGAN threw itself with zest into preparations
' for the big day. Following Hiram’s outburst,
Cabinet had decided upon ways of raising money to
augment the Treasury funds. A lodging tax was
imposed which proved remunerative without being a
hardship on the townsfolk, as the tourists were proving
profitable. A tax was also placed on farm produce
and was accepted without demur, as the farmers were
finding that it paid them better to supply the near-at-
hand wants of a growing Terrigan trade than to rail
their produce to Sydney.
Accordingly, money was spent freely in prepar-
ing for the Coronation and Independence Day, and
apart from the official preparations the townspeople
co-operated wholeheartedly. It was Bert Milligan who
promised a quantity of drinks for the sports meeting,
and the example once set others followed suit. This
one promised bread, this one poultry, this one sweets,
and so on. Working bees were organised to attend
to the decoration of the town, and Venetian poles
sprang up like young saplings everywhere, while
triumphal arches appeared in all sorts of unexpected
places.
A procession was arranged, and it seemed that so
many intended to take part in it that there would
be no one left to watch its progress through the
streets, but no one considered this a serious drawback.
As someone brightly suggested, “We could get a film
made of it and watch it afterwards at the School of
Arts.” Mr. Napper would have frowned had he
heard Parliament House so referred to, but fortunately
he was not at hand to overhear.
The sports programme was a formidable one. At
Sir Hamish’s instigation a “Tossing the Caber” con-
test was included, the Laird undertaking that Angus
would coach any of the Terrigan youth that were
desirous of entering for the event. Sir Hamish insisted,
too, on the inclusion of a bagpipes competition on
the programme. Ministers respectfully submitted that
it seemed hardly fair as Angus was the only piper in
the town.
“We’ll mak’ it an open event,” defended the
Laird, “open tae everyone in Australia. Angus is no’
scairt o’ them. If they coom, th’ laddie will beat
them. Why should Angus be penalised if they don’t
coom?”
It seemed a fair argument.
“Ah brocht Angus oot frae Scotland an’ he missed
th’ competitions in Perthshire. Forbye should he miss
them here.”
So the Bagpipes Competition (Open) went into
the programme.
The women of Terrigan were not forgotten. A
Grand Coronation (and Independence) Ball was
arranged, and an energetic committee —including Sally
Pettigrew— set to work to ensure its success.
“Isn’t it going to be marvellous?” gushed Mrs.
Mutton. “Besides being Coronatious and all that
it’ll be our first Governor’s Ball, you know —for most
of us, that is. Of course, I went once in Sydney
when I was a girl. Made my bow, you know. Coming
out’s such a sweet custom, don’t you think?”
Sally did not reply; she had no need to as the
rest of the committee hastened to coo their assent.
Mrs. Mutton was quite a figure these days.
“Can’t we have some debutantes?” sighed little
Mrs. Weedon. “Debs, just make a ball.”
“Well, my Elsie’s just at the right age,” replied
Mrs. Mutton. “And there’s your Nora, too, Mrs.
Bentham. What do you say to it?”
Mrs. Bentham endeavored very unsuccessfully to
hide her delight at the suggestion. “Do you think we
should? The Governor mightn’t like the idea.”
“Mightn’t like it! Of course he’ll like it. That’s
what a Governor’s for—and, of course, signing papers
and things. That’s so, isn’t it, Miss Pettigrew?”
“Never saw one in my life till I came here,”
answered Sally blithely, “except the Governor of Cin-
cinatti Gaol, and there was no coming out as far as
he was concerned.”
Mrs. Weedon tittered, but no one else saw any-
thing amusing in the remark.
“Not quite the same,” Mrs. Mutton commented
acidly. “Of course they do lots of things differently
in America.”
“Lots,” agreed Sally.
“I always think it makes so much difference to
a girl to be presented to the Governor. It gives her
something that sets her apart. I remember when I
made my debut”
So it was arranged that twelve Terrigan buds
should burst into bloom at the ball under vice-regal
auspices. Twelve Terrigan mothers (or, rather, eleven,
since the Gilroy twins were included on the deb. list),
their bosoms swelling with pride, worked frantically
preparing finery for the apotheosis of their offspring,
while those whose daughters were of an age outside
the liberal limits fixed by the committee hid their dis-
appointment as well as they could, and, in discussions
with friends other than the deb-mothers, spoke patron-
isingly of the ceremony as “quaint and charming,”
and agreed that it would add an Old-World touch to
the ball.
The supper was in the capable hands of Mrs.
Melhuish.
“You’re so much more used than we are to cater-
ing for large numbers,” Mrs. Mutton had pointed out.
“I’m sure you’ll give the supper quite the professional
touch, if you know what I mean.”
Mrs. Melhuish knew what she meant very well,
indeed, but ignored the implication. She was used to
Mrs. Mutton’s patronising superiority, but in view of
the present prosperity of the Eden she could afford
to take no notice of it.
"T ERRIGAN threw itself heart and soul into the
*■ preparations. Costumes and floats were prepared
for the procession, and the youth of the town practised
earnestly for the sports. Never before in the history
of Terrigan had so many bony knees and skinny limbs
protruded from so many pairs of shorts. It must have
seemed to visitors that every man in the town who
was capable of putting one foot in front of the other
had joined the harriers, whilst every hack in the neigh-
borhood found itself suddenly called upon to show its
prowess over the hurdles, whether it wanted to or not.
Bicycles that had been unused for years were
patched up and oiled, and it became unsafe to walk
down the main street, there were so many scooters
hurtling along it. Youthful goat-owners argued
heatedly over the respective chances of Tommy
Wilkins’s Baldy and Willy Travers’s Stinker for the
Independence Goat Race.
Angus held daily classes in “tossing the caber,”
but he made no offer of teaching anyone the bagpipes.
Tourists were still visiting the town in un-
diminished numbers. Parliament continued to meet
{Continued on page 50.)


Springtime Tours to
For Full Details
consult the South Australian representative at the
Victorian or Government 1 ourist Bureaux,
Melbourne and Sydney, or write to Government Tourist
Bureau, Box 664 G, G.P.0., Adelaide.
ADELAIDE
Adelaide’s Garden-studded Plains and Hillsides are at their best in
Springtime . . . enjoy the delights of the many beauty spots around the
Garden City on one of these planned holidays . . .
A Week’s Inclusive Tour for
Fares cover a week’s accommodation,
and local tours, and transport to and
from hotels, but is PLUS FARES FROM
YOUR TOWN TO ADELAIDE.
£sls'-
General’s experiences were typical the war would
nave been over in a few months, and Germany would
have won it.
In explaining some of these shootings that
obsessed him, General Crozier, incidentally, made the
following complimentary references:
The Australian Monash, a fine man and a good
soldier, a civilian by profession and a soldier at birth,
could have commanded the armies of the Empire in
France with success. And more—he would have staffed
the whole army with suitable men, chosen for battle and
not for bridge. Monash could no more afford to have
bad or unsuitable officers in his Australian corps—
particularly in the higher commands —than I could afford
to have bad officers in my battalion, brigade or division.
I was prepared to shoot or kill in order to have and to
hold, without regard for sentiment or uniform. And so
was Monash. I was prepared to sack the useless to
make room for the useful. So was Monash, and so were
most colonials. I am not a colonial, but I know colonial
soldiers and colonial soldiering all over the world. It
is great and of splendid value. This fact is as important
to-day as it was during the war.
Whether Monash would have been blessed with
a staff of Croziers might be doubted. {The Men l
Killed, by Brig.-General F. P. Crozier; Michael
Joseph, Ltd.; Bs. 6d. net.).
Jack Lindsay's New Novel.
In his novel Sue Verney (Ivor Nicholson and
Watson; 7s. 6d.), Jack Lindsay has taken Stuart Eng-
land and the Civil War as his background, and it is
against a complex and swiftly-changing picture of a
society disrupted by violence that his frail little heroine
moves towards her tragic fate. The book faces in
two directions at once. It faces towards the sword-
and-plume romances so closely associated in tradition
with this period and also towards the debunking
realism of the current historical reconstruction. The
minor characters, the rather arch use of the period
touch, the patches of consciously fine writing scat-
tered through the prose, belong quite obviously to the
romance, while the studiously unheroic treatment of
the background, the character of Sue and some
up-to-date psychological decorations come out of a
different and much more sophisticated stratum of
literature.
Jack Lindsay belongs to the old school when he
stereotypes his lesser characters. They are pegs, and
he obviously never intended to make them anything
else. The servants supply the comic relief; the aunts,
soldiers and so on are period lay figures, and some
of the more developed characters, Sue’s husband,
sisters, cousins, are little more than foils to Sue. Nor
can Lindsay resist making capital out of the quaint-
ness of some aspects of his period. For instance, Aunt
Susan:
“For a woman to wear breeches, albeit in a hidden
fashion, is to defy the word of God that forbids either
sex to ape the modes of the other. I would rather see
a maiden catch a chill than damn her soul.”
He also subscribes, and heavily, to another con-
vention. Maidens of other days, irrespective of date,
are generally differentiated from the young women
of to-day by an excessive modesty and charming inno-
cence. Sue, aged 22, is no exception. On one occa-
sion she is forced to ask a coachman to help her to
alight.
Obviously now, unless all homilies were false, the
worst would happen; before she could count ten it
would have happened, and there wasn’t even time to
decide what to do, whether to bite or to scream or to
stab herself (as soon as a knife was available) or to
weep herself into an early grave or to pretend nothing
had happened.
Nothing did happen.
The purple patches occur rather inconsequently
and reveal a natural zest for fine words:
Sue felt that she must stay till the apple-trees were
in full-bloom; she wanted to stay on always at Claydon,
to eat apples with Betty in russet-days of autumn.
There were several varieties in the orchard. Green
apples for their glow, or red Margarets, or Cat’s
Heads, or Fennel apples, or Bitter-sweet, or Pearmains
for the late year. Sue wanted to live an orchard-life, in
dappled shadows, in lovely lights of pink foam; to
measure the passing year by apples falling in deep
grasses, or by the tap of the little nut-hatch bird that,
hanging upside down to get as much power as possible
into his hammering beak, broke open the hazel-nut
wedged into a crack; to watch the hooves of the wind
print the grass blades... .She would never leave Claydon
again.
So much for the romantic side of the book. Its
tin romantic side is the stronger. Part of it, too, is a
concession to fashion, as when he explores with
scientific finger the complexes and repressions of
seventeenth-century girls, but other phases are more
essential. The Civil War is seen with the eyes of
disillusion. It is a slow, bungling, inconvenient affair,
wasteful and falling most heavily upon the innocent;
both sides are in the wrong. This is a war book of
the muddy, as opposed to the bloody, school. It was
financial ruin rather than death that the combatants
had to fear. There was, according to Lindsay, nothing
picturesque or splendid about that war. He debunks
it very thoroughly.
In Sue, too, he debunks the traditional heroine
of a civil-war romance. She is neither brave nor
beautiful. She is pitiful and insignificant, flung
hither and thither by the misfortunes of her family,
married by her scoundrelly brother to a drunken
widower who spends most of his time in prison for
debt; she finds strength only to encompass her own
death. She is the victim of circumstance throughout,
and hastens rather than resists her fate. Her small
tragedy, which is all her life, is unconnected with
the nation’s tragedy, and draws no majesty from it.
It has the flatness of death from natural causes in
war-time. The last chapter, when the story of her
death emerges piecemeal in the sodden memories of
the husband who unconsciously caused it, is the most
effective in the book.
When all is said and done, Sue Verney remains
a light novel, and obviously that is what it was in-
tended to be.
A Curious Posthumous Book.
Franz Kafka’s The Trial (Gollancz ; 7s. 6d.) is
a posthumous book. In an epilogue Max Brod,
Kafka’s close friend and sincere admirer, confesses
that it is published in defiance of the author’s wishes.
Kafka, dying, had asked him to burn all his unpub-
lished manuscripts, and even, if possible, to recall and
destroy some of those already published. Brod justi-
fies himself for disregarding these wishes on the
grounds that he did not agree to do so, and that it
was not Kafka’s real desire to have his work
destroyed, but only the product of a morbid and
despairing mood. He goes on to describe Kafka’s
“self-hatred,” his “self-sabotage,” his “Nihilism” (the
word is used with psychological,- not political, signi-
ficance), and to draw the picture of a man of genius
cruelly divided against himself and shrinking morbidly
from his own art. “Nearly everything of Kafka’s
that was published in his lifetime,” writes Brod, “was
rescued from him by dint of persuasion and guile on
my part.”
The epilogue in part explains the very curious,
tormented and enigmatic book. The Trial is the story
of Joseph K., the brilliant junior manager of a large
bank, who is arrested on the morning of his thirtieth
birthday. Neither the reader nor Joseph K. ever learns
on what charge he was arrested or for what crime
he was tried. He is involved in a slow-moving night-
mare that is never resolved or rationalised. The
Judges are grotesque creatures whose books of law
are dog-eared notebooks scrawled with obscene pic-
tures ; the Court is mysteriously housed in the attic
of a slum tenement and proclaims itself “impervious
to proof” ; the interrogations are farcical, without
content.
Joseph is unable to defend himself because he
can never discover the nature of the accusation. Many
other people are involved, the nurse Leni, Titorelli
the painter, Fraulein Burstner and others. Yet none
of them has any rational connection with the case,
and only confuse it with cross issues. It is a labyrinth
of unreason in which K. wanders until he is lost,
until he is worn out and broken. All is arbitrary
and irrational as a dream or a delirium. But while
the events of the story are grotesque, Joseph’s reactions
to them —and here the interest of the story lies —are
poignantly real and convincingly natural. The tragedy
has point, because it is a real man who suffers it.
The general effect of the book is of a sombre
and rather terrifying Alice in Wonderland. It may
be a satire on the law, a senseless machine whirring
in space, or a picture of man the helpless victim
of his own civilisation. It is impossible to disentangle
the author’s intention with any certainty. It leaves
the mind excited and impressed by its unreason. There
is a Continental tradition in such books, but it is
alien to the Anglo-Saxon mind, so that, however at
home The Trial may be in its native German, it is
an entirely exotic growth in its translated and trans-
planted form —which is no reflection on the trans-
lators, Willa and Edwin Muir.
The Trial ends with Joseph K.’s execution—an
affair as obscure and unofficial as the whole trial
at midnight in a deserted city square.
But the hands of one of the partners were already at
K.’s throat, while the other thrust the knife into his
heart and turned it there twice. With, failing eyes K.
could still see the two of them, cheek leaning against
cheek, immediately before his face, watching the final
act. “Like a dog,” he said; it was as if he meant the
shame of it to outlive him.
The book is nevertheless described as “unfinished”
because the author conceived it as “interminable.” It
is possible that it has a political significance, and is
a reflection on the “underground justice” at present
making life in some parts of Europe more interesting
than pleasant.
Reviewed Briefly.
FICTION . . .
Beyond Midnight Chasm: Denver Bardwell
(Robert Hale; 3s. 6d.). With guns loosened in their
holsters Bob Fannin rides into Dodge City looking
for the rustlers who shot his younger brother and
stole his cattle. Cherry Maris proves his friend, and
when the shooting and the tumult die he rides back
to his ranch with Cherry beside him, a victor and a
married man.
The Man Behind : Anthony Dax (Master Thriller
Library ; 7s. 6d.). Jack and Jill answer questions put
to them by the parson after Jack, with Jill’s faithful
help, has rescued his friend Detective Dantry from
the dread clutches of a gang of dope traffickers, it
looked at first as if Dantry might have been put out
of the way by either a prominent Home Office official
or a Chief Inspector of Scotland Yard, but Jack knew
better than that. Plenty of excitement.
Beginning with a Bash: Alice Tilton (The Crime
Club ; 7s. 6d.). Wild excitement when a book thief
dashes out of a second-hand bookstore, and still more
excitement when a man is found in the store, a few
minutes later, with his head bashed in. Martin Jones,
who had gone into the store to escape the wintry
blast of Boston, ends by going to Italy holidaying
with his bride. A nice mixture of romance and
crime detection.
The Landor Case : John Bentley (Chapman and
Hall; 7s. 6d.). When the headquarters of the owner
of a chain of gambling houses in London is raided
the proprietor is found hanging from a beam in his
office. It looks like suicide, but it is murder. Skil-
fully worked out, except that the murderer, when
tracked down, is such small game as to seem hardly
worth the hunt.
The Ace of Knaves: Leslie Charteris (Hodder
and Stoughton ; 7s. 6d.). Three long stories in which
Simon Templar, a philanthropic outlaw, preys on
crooks to the profit of himself and society. A mys-
terious blackmailer, a gang of smugglers and some
unscrupulous Spanish agents are the unwilling con-
tributors to Simon’s pocket and pet charities. Clever
work of its kind.
Careless Corpse : C. Daly King (The Crime Club ;
7s. 6d.). Strange deaths at a house party of cele-
brities on an island in the Hudson at a time when
the place is threatened with isolation through fogs
and icefloes. Explanation is sought along scientific
lines. An attempt at the profoundly mysterious rather
than the crudely exciting—and fairly successfully
carried off.
Storms at Sunset: Errol Fitzgerald (Mills and
Boon ; 7s. 6d.). Dr. Michael Meltran’s frivolous and
heartless wife deserts him when he is wrongfully sus-
pected of murder, but Cynthia, engaged by Mrs.
Meltran to look after her unwanted child, sticks to
him through thick and thin, and after his name is
cleared sticks to him for good. Cynthia, as a noble
and beautiful heroine, leaves nothing to be desired.
GENERAL . . .
The Economic Merry-Go-Round : Edmund A. H.
Walker (George Allen and Unwin; 65.). This is an
excursion into the jungle of the trade cycle in Britain.
Having roughly traced the tracks and habits of his
quarry there for the last 125 years, and assuming that
it will behave in the future as in the past, the author
reckons that the worst year of the next bad period
will be 1942. For 1944-45 a boom is predicted, and
“conditions will be at their worst” in 1951, followed
by a sharp recovery, reaching its peak in 1953. Bad
times are to come again in the late ’fifties, with a
revival in the early ’sixties. They are interesting
speculations. Yet the belief that an invisible hand
controls the economic machinery of the world is not
so strong in these days of planning as it was in the
times of Adam Smith.


m
m
' w'
/
A*
W
R.M.S. STRATHMORE
The New Liner
leaves Sydney November 12
R.M.S. STRATHAIRD
leaves Sydney December 10
R.M.S. STRATHNAVER
leaves Sydney January 21
R.M.S. STRATHMORE
leaves Sydney March 4
FIRST SALOON
TOURIST CLASS
FROM
FROM
GUINEAS
GU I NEAS
ALL PARTICULARS OBTAINABLE
FROM THE LOCAL P. & O. AGENTS.
PiO
CENTENARY
CRUISES


ROYAL
PURPLE
PARA
-J
m
..
H &
1
1
&
pi.
S HI
»
An Idea of Portion of One of the Vast Storage Cellars .
j'Jtfbtt Him cf , ia f ie meilcwneM (mclicuq/uei


CENTRE-PARTY DIRGE.
“We walk along Election-street in a ludicrous row, we three,
The dreamer I am, the wrecker I damn and the Jonah they thrust on me.”
(With acknowledgments to N.L.)


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Gordon & Gotch (Aus.), Ltd.,
Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Saywell Buildings, 115 Lambton
Quay, Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London,
E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-Stale cheques .)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 15s. 6d.;
3 months, Bs.
Posted Free to any address Overseas (Foreign):
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 25.; 3
months, 11s.
MILLIONS DON'T MATTER.
With much of what Mr. Curtin said at Fremantle
most people can agree. It is true that “our position
renders it impracticable that we can exercise any
decisive influence, either as a police or as a salvage
corps, in the problems of Europe” ; equally true that
“the discrimination against Japan and the U.S.A. was
foolish”; true also that “Australia should aim at the
establishment and maintenance of friendly relations
with all other countries and should not be provoca-
tive in its international policies and contacts.” Nor
can it fairly be denied that “this Government has
evaded responsibilities by shunting them on to boards
and commissions” and has “left the whole responsi-
bility for the relief of unemployment,” which Presi-
dent Roosevelt, in more trying circumstances, has
accepted as a national responsibility, “to the States.”
And to people with short memories it must have
been encouraging to read that “the Labor movement,
from its very inception, has stood for Australian
national defence.” Unfortunately, people with long
memories know that this claim can be allowed only
to the pre-war Labor party. And a study of the whole
speech makes it painfully clear that to Mr. Curtin’s
Labor party defence is immeasurably less important
than “social justice”— i.e., Commonwealth paternalism
regardless of cost.
Mr. Curtin mentioned that “in 1936 the per
capita expenditure on defence by Australia was
21s. 10d.,” and he seemed appalled at the magnitude
of the amount. He is not a bit appalled at the expen-
diture on old-age and invalid pensions, which last
year was twice 21s. lOd. per head, and is to be in-
creased this year from £14,000,000 to £16,000,000 by
the pre-election grant of Is. a week.
Mr. Curtin complains that the shilling a week
is overdue, and his wilder followers have been
bellowing for years that the pensioners have been
“robbed.” What he and they fail to realise is that,
if Australia became the prey of a conqueror because
its rulers neglected their first duty, the pensioners
would not get a pound a week nor even a penny a
week. The nation by no means objects to these pensions
being raised to a pound a week, but it needs to remem-
ber that even last year’s expenditure, which is to be
increased this year by £2,000,000, and is expected to
go on increasing, was upwards of two millions in
excess of the entire yield from Commonwealth income
tax (£8,556,000), Commonwealth land tax (£1,435,400)
and Commonwealth estate duties (£1,792,600), and it
may well wonder whether any substantial addition to
the outlay on social services, without a substantial
reduction of expenditure in other ways, can be borne.
For one brief moment this thought seems to have
occurred to Mr. Curtin. “In 1935-36,” he said, “Com-
monwealth taxation per head reached the staggering
figure of £9 Bs.- 5d.” “Staggering,” though land tax
(£1,326,000), estate duties (£1,472,800) and income tax
(£8,775,500), yielded on the whole £208,000 less than
in 1936-37. The “staggering” interval passed, and
Mr. Curtin proceeded lightheartedly to the unfolding
of plans for new expenditure.
Queensland has contributory unemployment insur-
ance, and the Lyons Government has been coquetting
with a nation-wide contributory scheme. Mr. Curtin
is against it; on a contributory basis you can’t
“develop this principle of social justice in an orderly
and rational way.” But unemployment insurance the
nation must have, and “it is proposed therefore to
provide £6,000,000 for the initiation of the system.”
The widow and the fatherless must also be
cared for, so Mr. Curtin is willing to pay widows a
pound a week and dependent children 10s. a week.
Payments of 17s. 6d. and Bs. 9d. respectively, hedged
about by restrictions which Mr. Curtin does not con-
template imposing, cost N.S.W. £558,400 in 1935-36 ;
but the Labor leader is sure that £1,800,000 would
“enable the Australian people to institute this aspect
of a system of family allowances.” He is probably
wrong; all the same, this particular proposal would
be cheerfully accepted if it stood alone, especially if it
were suggested that the scandalously excessive special
grants to State Governments, £2,350,000 this year,
should be reduced at least 50 p.c. by way of finding
part of the wherewithal.
And everybody is to have a job—on unifying rail-
way gauges, if nothing else offers, though many other
things are mentioned —and nobody is to work more
than 40 hours a week. What the 40-hour week would
cost is left to the public’s imagination. In the case of
Governments, public-utility concerns and local bodies,
in the mass vast employers of labor and purchasers of
supplies, some estimate is possible, but Mr. Curtin
gives none. Nor does Mr. Curtin explicitly mention
how he would get the money for the boons he offers
to distribute out of the fullness of a kind heart; but
the discerning student of his policy speech can guess.
He proposes to place the Commonwealth Bank under
“national” (i.e., political) control, so that there may
be “credit” enough to “maintain and increase em-
ployment,” also interest rates kept to “a minimum”
and “national” (i.e., political) “direction of investment”
—whatever that may mean. Mr. Curtin has discovered
that “banking is a great social function which can be
controlled in the permanent interest of the people” ;
and he and Mr. Beasley, and, of course, Mr. Lang,
know just how it should be “controlled.”
Mr. Curtin on Defence.
Though his pronouncement on defence loses some-
what from its having been made under compulsion,
the matter having been forced on him as an election
issue, Mr. Curtin should be credited with at least
sounding more reassuring than any Labor leader for
a couple of decades.
Indeed, his references to the subject make it
seem almost incredible that it was the last Federal
Labor Government, Mr. Scullin’s, which, by abolish-
ing compulsory training ten days after it reached
office and by lopping £1,050,000 off defence expendi-
ture in its first year, started this country’s defences on
the downhill slide into impotence from which Labor
under Mr. Curtin now makes a show of offering to
rescue them.
As to some of the actual defence measures he
proposes, Mr. Curtin is sound enough. He recognises
that munitions of all kinds must be manufactured in
Australia ; that there must be more docks (for a navy
he says we cannot support and otherwise disparages),
more aeroplanes and aerodromes and oil storage.
There must also be the essential industries to feed,
clothe and transport the “forces of the Commonwealth.”
As Mr. Curtin knows as well as the next one,
there are no such forces of any consequence. There
is a weak, centralised volunteer army inadequate to
defend a coral atoll, and there is no promise in either
the policy that has been pursued by the Lyons Gov-
ernment or that pronounced by Mr. Curtin that this
sorry state of things will be rectified. Mr. Curtin —
and not only Mr. Curtin —is prepared at least to talk
on every conceivable aspect of our defence position
except the basic one of man-power.
Mr. Curtin may be quite sincere in this. It may
represent merely one of the blind spots in his know-
ledge of defence requirements, and if it is he is not
the only one so afflicted. The trust in the machine
and the fear of it in relation to possible future war
are widespread obsessions. It is this which accounts
for the confidence many enjoy in Soviet Russia as a
potential fighting force. It numbers its aeroplanes as
the locusts and its tanks as the grasshoppers, and at
that it is held to be pre-eminent. But the fighting
quality of the man in the machine is as important
to-day as ever it was. If Mr. Curtin would have a
talk with Diggers he would find that the country they
would wish to have on their side in a future war
would be Germany, a preference based wholly on the
quality of the German as a fighter.
The British, too, still have that quality in a high
degree, and none ever had it higher than the Diggers
themselves. But the Diggers and the material out of
which they were forged form no part of what Mr.
Curtin has pronounced as Labor’s “defence policy.”
Mr. Curtin undertakes to see to industries and
machines, but man-power is no part of his contract.
In regard to machines, Mr. Curtin scoffs at the
Lyons Government’s “best defence” having provided
only 96 ’planes, and the performance deserves scoffing
at. He himself is prepared to raise the bid to 300. The
navy, despite his bid in the way of docks, he sneers
out of existence —“ships which cost double the cost
of 300 ’planes have been towed out to sea and sunk
as obsolete.” On the other hand, he finds, it would
be possible to sustain an aerial fleet “equal to any
that could be brought against us,” and he holds Mr.
Hughes responsible for having declared that “aerial
defence is the only defence within our capabilities.”
If Mr. Hughes ever said that he must have been
dithering, and Mr. Curtin is not far from the same
state in repeating it or uttering it at its face value.
If aerial defence is the only defence within our capa-
bilities, then there is no defence within our capabili-
ties. Not the most rabid supporter of the ’plane as
a war weapon could make out a case for ’planes alone
as adequate defence of any country whatever. In
spite of his remarkable pronouncements The Bulletin
cannot believe that Mr. Curtin is so unfamiliar with
defence measures all over the world that he could
really be taken in by such bosh.
Though the ’plane is unquestionably a powerful
weapon, there is no country anywhere so foolish as
to rely on it alone for defence. If it warranted half
the reliance that Mr. Curtin places in it is it at all
likely thatJßritain would be laying down the keels of
more and greater ships than ever ; France likewise, and
Italy, Germany, Russia, America and every other
country that regards it as sacred to safeguard its
people? Or are we to be told that any one of these
countries could make itself supreme by simply build-
ing unlimited aeroplanes?
The support of a navy may be, as Mr. Curtin
suggests, beyond our resources, though we had a tidy
little one before our defence was finally handed over
to political expediency. Allowing that it is, this alone
shows up a major blunder in Mr. Curtin’s defence
floundering. If his pronouncement on foreign policy
in this respect means anything, it means that if
Britain were attacked and fighting for its existence
the day after Mr. Curtin won an election, whether or
not Britain went hang, as far as Australia was
concerned, would depend on and until the result of a
referendum. Mr. Curtin, if he means anything, plainly
says that in such circumstances Australia could stand
out. This is utter rubbish, and as national policy no
less dangerous than that at the other extreme, which
recently looked eager to have Australia jointly
launched on what would have been the most stupid
war that Britain ever undertook.
To combat that tendency, to make it plain to
Britain that Australia would be there to help Britain
in a war to protect Britain and the British Common-
wealth and greatly reluctant to have anything to do
with wars for any other end, would be sound policy.
It would also be honest. There is no true honesty in
harboring such a fallacy as that if Britain were at war
Australia could stand out, and there is nothing sound
in a policy which embraces the illusion that Australia
could defend itself against any likely contender inde-
pendently of Britain’s aid.
This (Canberra) Freedom.
Two and a half years ago a Standing Orders Com-
mittee was appointed to recast the rules by which
the House of Representatives is governed. Of eight
members who lived to see the job completed, only
the Speaker, the Chairman of Committees and Mr.
Blackburn stuck to it throughout.
The new Standing Orders are very much like the
old Standing Orders. Members may still say anything
they please about plain citizens so long as they do it
within the precincts of Parliament. Certainly the game
at which they may shoot has been restricted a little.
Where previously it was forbidden to speak
“disrespectfully” of only the Governor-General
among the King’s representatives, the committee now
wishes members to be uniformly respectful to State
Governors and Deputy Governors. And this revised
section appears:
77. No member shall use offensive words against
either House of Parliament or any member thereof, or
any House of a State Parliament....
There are 11 State Houses, with 505 members.
Then: —
All imputations of improper motives and all personal
reflections On members shall be considered highly
disorderly.
But not nearly so highly disorderly as when made by
some private citizen. Private citizens have not even
an inalienable right to attend Parliament and see that
it does its job. The new Standing Orders maintain the
anachronism that any back-bench member may get
the galleries cleared by informing the Speaker that
he “spies strangers,” and having them kicked out by
resolution. The Speaker can order them out on his
own authority.
If a mere member of the public reflects on an
M.P.’s motives, it becomes a matter of “privilege.”
The member affected has the option of having all
business suspended, even if there is a mobilisation
in progress, so that his honor may be satisfied. The
House may haul the critic from the ends of Australia
and dump him into the custody of the Sergeant-at-
Arms, or even into a common gaol, and that without
the semblance of a fair trial as understood by drum-
head courts-martial. It enjoys the magnificent advan-
tage of being plaintiff, prosecutor and Judge all in one.
Members who infringe the Standing Orders may,
of course, be punished under the new rules, but
not punished like the common herd. The lightning
strikes them like a caress. If a citizen goes to a public
meeting and interjects the chairman may order his
arrest, and he may be placed in a dock at a police
court and fined, with an alternative of gaol. If a
pedestrian refuses to obey a junior traffic policeman,
even though it be a first offence, he may feel the
clutch of the Law on his collar and know the smell
of a cell.
Not so the member who breaks a law he himself
has helped to make. Under Section 298 it is only
after he has “persistently and wilfully” obstructed
business, disregarded the authority of the Chair or
refused to conform to Standing Orders that he can
be dealt with, though he may be carpeted for “using
objectionable words which he refuses to withdraw”
or for disorderly conduct. Punishment? For a first
offence, “suspension for the remainder of that day’s
sitting; on the _ second occasion during the same
session, for one week.”
This does not mean that he ceases to enjoy all
the other privileges of membership. He may luxuriate
over a novel in the Parliamentary library, eat and
drink in Parliament House, entertain there, use his
gold pass to take a holiday at the seaside, ride free on
Sydney trams, even though his contempt may have
been in speaking “offensively” of the N. S. Wales
Parliament in connection with transport legislation,
and write to his friends in the comfortable Parlia-
mentary lounges provided in every State capital—
write on free Government paper and use free Govern-
ment stamps. And there is no loss of salary.
It is only when he has “persistently and wilfully”
offended a third time in one session and undergone
two previous suspensions that he can be sent down
for as much as a month. He then may not enter
Parliament House, but the pay goes on.
There are, of course, occasions when a member
may be arrested for disobeying the House ; but this
can be done only after he has been asked for an
explanation. A stranger in contempt—for, say, fail-
ing to leave the gallery when ordered —is in a very
different position. He may be arrested on the
Speaker’s order. He then shares with arrested mem-
bers of Parliament the privilege of paying the
Sergeant-at-Arms a guinea a day for keeping him
in custody. It does not matter if he is found not
guilty of the offence for which he is charged—he still
pays. But again he is worse off than a member.
Only a special Act can deprive an incarcerated
member of his* £2 6s. 6d. a day. As he pays £1 Is.
a day for board he can, while in durance, make a
neat profit of £1 ss. 6d. a day.
E. V.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Stevens's "Great" Budget.
Obviously with one eye on the Commonwealth
elections, Mr. Stevens, the Sydney Premier, has
produced a Budget which has pleased U.A.P.
newspapers—anyway, they profess to be pleased, and
that amounts to the same thing
Mr. Stevens has taken something off his “special”
income tax, which is alleged to be for unemployed-
relief, and promised a surplus—of £9300. And in a
spasm of candor he admitted that “loan funds pro-
vided for relief of unemployment” for the five years
to June 30 amounted to £23,721,200, interest on which
is costing £870,000 a year. This doesn’t fit in with
the story that loan expenditure is “reproductive” or
with the cultivated impression that the unemployed
have been getting the benefit of all the money raised
by the alleged relief tax (in 1935-36 and 1936-37, just
on £13,000,000), but spasms of candor in these matters
are refreshing, if belated.
Incomes below £3 a week are now to be exempt
from the alleged relief tax, and on incomes of £3
to £2O a week the rates are to be lowered, while for
the first time there are to be deductions for depen-
dants. But there is to be no cut for any person in
receipt of more than £2O a week, whether from a job,
a business or any form of investment. This may be
popular, but it is grossly unjust.
In the result the alleged relief tax will fall far
more heavily on these higher incomes than the corre-
sponding imposts in Victoria. This is true also of
incomes on a lower scale, notwithstanding the lauded
reductions and allowances. For example (as far as
Mr. Stevens’s rigmarole can be followed), a married
man with one child will pay £3 9s. 4d. on £250 p.a.
in N. S. Wales and £2 11s. 6d. in Victoria ; on £3OO,
£5 12s. Bd. in N. S. Wales, £3 Is. lOd. in Victoria ; on
£4OO, £lO 12s. 4d. in N. S. Wales, £4 6s. 2d. in Victoria;
on £5OO, £l4 10s. 4d. in N. S. Wales, £5 15s. 4d. in
Victoria ; on £750, £24 ss. 4d. in N. S. Wales, £lO Is.
6d. in Victoria ; on £lOOO, £34 os. 4d. in N. S. Wales,
£l5 Bs. in Victoria; on £l5OO £6O 10s. in N. S.
Wales, £3O Is. in Victoria ; on £2OOO, £BO 16s. Bd. in
N. S. Wales, £49 4s. in Victoria. And single and
childless married N. S. Wales persons catch it hotter
still.
Because “the application of these proposals will
involve considerable administrative preparations,” the
new schedule is not to take effect till December 1.
Since wagepayers are required to collect “relief” tax
free, and it will now be necessary for them to discrimi-
nate between single and married employees, and, in
the case of the married, between those with one child
and those with two, three, four or more children,
“considerable administrative preparations” will be
thrust on them too. In fact, they are to be unpaid
assessors on a large scale. In the case of businesses
employing hundreds, perhaps thousands, of persons
whose family concerns were hitherto their own secrets,
it will be an intricate and, in some cases, costly task,
especially as employees come and go.
Landmen employing seasonal labor will find the
new obligation a particular nuisance. With prices
down and wool being withdrawn from the market,
woolgrowers have worries enough, and they are not
to have the consolation of knowing that a trifle will
come off their taxes to compensate for the extra book-
keeping imposed on them. On the contrary, Govern-
ment railway charges for the carriage of wool are
to go up.
When wool prices were less than cost of produc-
tion, 20 per cent, was taken off N. S. Wales railway
freight-rates on wool and livestock, previously made
“as high as the traffic will bear.” From October 1 (not
December 1) there is to be a 10 per cent, increase on
wool and livestock, also grain and flour, hay, straw
and chaff, minerals and crude ore. This is to give
an appearance of truth to the fiction that the Govern-
ment Railway Department is paying its way.
Now It's Japan.
Last week an Italian representative gave the French
Foreign Minister an undertaking that his country
would take part in the Mediterranean patrol, provided
its stipulation for equality with Britain and France
was agreed to, and that it would send no more troops
to Spain. Japan, for its part, apologised handsomely
for the shooting of the British Ambassador at Nan-
king.
This was better, but it did not cramp the style
of those Left Wingers and pacifists who are always
looking for “Fascist” heads to hit—always, of course,
by deputy. They shifted their gaze to China, and saw
Japanese air squadrons darkening the skies, and
“foreigners of all nationalities” leaving in a hurry
to escape the great raid with which the Japanese
threaten to eradicate the Chinese capital.
A raid which could “eradicate” a city of a million
people as widely spread out as Sydney would be a
cross between Armageddon and the Pompeii eruption.
“Zero hour for the air raid by which the Japanese
threaten to blot out Nanking passed without any
bombers appearing over the city.” But on September
22 “wave after wave of Japanese aircraft bombed
Nanking in brilliant sunshine.” However, the defence
was “effective,” the anti-aircraft barrage “terrific,”
and “over 100 ’planes” were forced to withdraw.
Next morning Will Donald, the Australian who
is adviser to Chiang Kai-shek, weighed in with his
story. According to him, 18 bombers came over in
the morning and 14 in the afternoon, the first lot being
backed by 11 pursuit ’planes. The earlier raiders were
seen among the clouds on the morning of “brilliant
sunshine.”
They were chased off with a score of no hits on
military objectives, one bomb in a dormitory of the
Central Nationalist party headquarters and bombs on
two schools.
The second squadron dropped bombs “outside the
city waffs,” and “in 15 minutes they were frightened
off and did no military damage.” Another account
says that “the casualties did not exceed 200.”
Nanking is a military city with an arsenal. The
same is true of Canton, which has also been bombed,
and where greater damage appears to have been done,
though a discount of at least 75 p.c. should be allowed
for the stories of “eyewitnesses” and other romancers
who “reliably report.”
English-speaking people and Europeans naturally
find these proceedings horrible and incomprehensible.
A charitable interpretation is that they are an effect
of the hatred and fear inspired by Communism. Com-
munism has made such headway in China that it
runs not only Red armies but “Soviet republics,” and
it never establishes itself in a country without —
directly or indirectly—bringing desolation there.
Preparing for the Inevitable.
Queensland’s new Local Government Act gets a good
word from the very competent writer of “S. M.
Herald’s” Local Government column —as capital a
thing of its kind as is published anywhere. He quotes
Blair, C.J., as praising the work of the Government
which presented Queensland with a local-government
code in so concise a form, and publishes an extract
from a speech in which Mr. Hanlon, the Minister, said
that in framing the Act he “had in mind obvious
alterations that will come in the near future.”
The anti-Federal complex will not last. When the
national Government comes into its own there will be
a revival of the agitation for the abolition of State
Parliaments. There will then follow throughout the
Commonwealth tremendously increased powers for local
councils.
Increased powers have been granted to Queensland
local bodies, and the “S. M. Herald” writer, who, it is
no secret, is a power in the N. S. Wales Local Govern-
ment Association, testifies that they are “far beyond
those in any other State.”
The scope of local government in Australia is very
small. Councils in England and America handle such
major problems as education, police and the care of
the sick and destitute. In many respects N.S.W. has
a narrower form of local government than that which
exists in other States. It is certain that none of them
has a charter anything equal to that given to councils by
the Queensland Act.
Queensland has had its vicissitudes and its continuous
Governments, but it has never entirely lacked rulers
with vision. Throughout the depression its decentral-
ised population, whose trade is distributed among a
number of ports, had a far lower unemployment rate
than the One-Big-City States, and it was no mere
fortunate accident. In preparing for the day when
State Parliaments and Governments and Government
Houses will be recognised for the costly anachron-
isms and excrescences they are, the Forgan Smith
Administration is doing a good job, not only for
Queensland, but for the Australian nation.
He's Changed His Mind.
Judging by a speech delivered in Randwick, Mr. J.
A. Beasley, formerly leader of the Lang group
in the Commonwealth Parliament, now a follower
of Mr. Curtin, is one of those politicians who think
it no sin to change their minds.
“To-day,” he said, “you see the Communist and
Capitalist running hand-in-hand in the mad race to
tie you, the people of Australia, to the death-chariot
of Collective War.”
Lyons and Litvinov were parties to the War Pact
concluded in London. Menzies did his part faith-
fully in Australia and the Communist party is now
trying to do its part. The job of both is to line up
Australia for collective war.
. Mr. Beasley in 1923 was one of the State A.L.P.
executive minority that voted for the admission of
Communists to the Labor party. This was quite in
keeping with his opinion of Russia expressed in a
message which he sent to the “Communist” (Nov. 7,
1922):
Workers of other lands, more especially those of
our own countries, should watch with keen interest the
everyday development of Russia’s new order of society,
profit by their experiences, and in doing so set them-
selves determinedly to accomplish within a very short
period that measure of emancipation which the Rus-
sian workers now enjoy.
And in September, 1929, 13 or 14 months before he
became a Minister, Mr. Beasley attended a conference
designed to form a branch of the International Class
War Prisoners’ Aid. The conference began operations
by drafting greetings to all the incarcerated “comrades”
it could think of. It sent cables to the executive
of the International Red Aid, Moscow, and to the
workers and peasants of the Socialist Soviet Republic
in which were the words “Long live international soli-
darity!”
Mr. Beasley has apparently gone a long way from
the stirring days when he was president of the N. S.
Wales Labor Council and Mr. Garden carried the
news to Moscow that in Australia “Revolution” had
“stepped on the stage.”
The Labor Council of ~N. S. Wales constitutes 120
unions. Out of 12 members of the executive, 11 are
members of the Communist party.
Mr. Garden was then secretary of the Labor
Council. If Mr. Beasley repudiated him and his
speech when the report reached Australia, the repudia-
tion has been forgotten.
One-eyed Pacific View.
On two major Pacific routes British ships are faring
badly. Too much Australian and Maoriland accent
is being placed on United States competition and too
little on the steady expansion of subsidised Japanese
lines. The thorny question of Japan’s shipping
advance was skirted by Federal Attorney-General
Menzies when he said “Australia” was “not con-
cerned” with Britain’s recent agreement permitting
Japanese warships to stop British merchantmen in
the China seas.
The reason for lack of Australian concern is that
there are no ships on the Australian register engaged
in passenger or cargo traffic with Japanese or Chinese
ports. In fact, the Commonwealth Statistician says
there are only three Australian-owned vessels in
regular operation between Australia and Asia. Their
total net tonnage is 13,100 and their speed 12 to 12-1-
knots.
Japan, on the other hand, runs 11 ships with a
total net tonnage of 45,594, and at least two can move
along at 14 to 16 knots, which means they can be
licked only by the fastest passenger liners afloat.
And in the last couple of years Japanese shipping
companies, enjoying several forms of Government
subsidy, have extended their services to Maoriland.
Moreover, during 1935-36 seven per cent, of the
vessels entering Australian ports direct from overseas,
flew the Japanese flag; only four per cent, carried
the Stars and Stripes.
Australian and Maoriland Governments are stiff
quibbling over the nature of the subsidy they will
share with the United Kingdom and Canada to put
British ships back in the trans-Pacific trade-race to
North America’s western seaboard. These figures
show it is about time they realised the Pacific has
another side.
Scotland Thought of If First.
“Coif”: The Queensland Police Act clause which
provides that a witness refusing to answer questions
“legally demanded of him,” other than those which
may incriminate him, is liable to penalties (B. 22/9/’37)
is not an original idea, and has some good points.
Under the Franco-Roman procedure of Scottish
law an official, known as the Procurator-Fiscal, may
detain for further questioning a witness suddenly
afflicted by loss of memory when it is evident on the
facts that he or she is well aware of what the Crown
wants to know. One of the handicaps to investigating
authority in what are known as “gangster crimes” is
the refusal of obvious witnesses and even the victim
to identify the perpetrator of the crime. Here the
Scottish law is on the side of justice and public policy
—not always the same thing.
Australia might do worse than borrow some
other features of Scottish law. For instance majority
and “not proven” verdicts in criminal cases, and the
provision which permits the heirs of one removed
from the jurisdiction by death to sue a slanderer.
The Shabby State Election.
From “Paying Guest”:
A belated income-tax bill reached me in time to stimulate
a lethargic interest in Victorian State politics and study of
some of the candidates.
They are an uninspiring bunch. They don’t even sound as
though they believe in the promises they expect you to swallow;
they relay these, parrot-fashion, from their party leaders’ policy
points. They give Hollywood attractions round the corner
no competition at all. And it seems much the same from the
Murray to the sea. Dunstan men stick closely to Dunstan’s
verbal lead; Labor candidates, fretting under a strange re-
straint, go no further than Tunnecliffe’s boast that much of the
Dunstan Government’s “beneficial” legislation came from
behind-the-scenes Labor advocacy, and U.A.P. chaps follow
Argyle as Lyons follows Britain.
After a dull week I decided to see whether my name was
on the roll. It isn’t, so I am liable for another compulsory
contribution to State finances. Because of Mr. Dunstan’s
unseemly dissolution, there was no chance of getting on.
For Crippled Children.
“Physician”: “Kwakprak” mentions cripples’ schools
(B. 8/9/’37). There are three in the Commonwealth
to my knowledge. At the Frankston (Vic.) Orthopaedic
Hospital you have education and care going on side by
side. The A.J.C. runs a splendid and efficient home
for cripples at Canonbury, and the N.S.W. Crippled
Children’s Society is opening another.
Tn Queensland George Marchant has given his old
home, Montrose, and a great deal of money to the
Queensland Society for Crippled Children, with very
happy results. Cripples are taken from the hospitals
when no longer needing hospital treatment. At Mon-
trose they are given primary schooling, while their
splints and plasters are controlled and massage and
re-education are carried on. There are always 50 to
60 children in residence.
Now, thanks again to George Marchant, the
society has been given a much larger home, Ardoyne,
at Corinda, though this, too, is to be called Montrose.
Here 100 children are to be housed in fireproof dormi-
tories, with school training, workshops, recreation
rooms, swimming and curative pools, a massage room,
a gymnasium, dental clinic and sick rooms.
Next to Mr. Marchant the society owes most to
its first president, the late J. T. Isles, its present presi-
dent, W. H. McLuckie, and its tireless secretary, H. W.
Watson, all good Australians, all busy businessmen
and all enthusiastic.
These men and George Marchant are examples of
what can be done nowadays by voluntary enthusiasm,
with but little public encouragement.


Society
“AND IT'S PRINTED WITH WIMBLE'S INKS”
“Giuthas”: Among great spectacles I
have missed, I number the Peace Con-
ference procession in Melbourne last
week. The demonstrators marched—a
military practice—headed by a band of
women garbed in kilts —the costume
which for centuries Lowland Scotland
looked on as the garb of “redshanks,”
turbulent breakers of the peace, and
which the modern world regards as
mostly military. Also, the music was
largely provided by the pipes, which
were born of war, and which have few
unwarlike associations. I suppose paci-
fist movements will always be hampered
by these kinds of inconsistencies. Didn’t
the Chinese call the biggest civil war
which ever took place in the Middle
Kingdom and which raged for years,
costing several million lives, the Taai
ping (“peace”) rebellion?
* * sfc *
“Colon”: I don’t know what is the
market value of any of the cups out of
which Edward VIII. drank (B. 8/9/’37)
during his tour of this country in 1920,
but I would advise collectors (if there
are any left) to make sure that they are
getting the genuine goods for their
money. I still recall a common or
garden enamel pint proffered by the cook
to H.R.H. at one of the shearing sheds
he visited. A fervid loyalist in our party
—at least we reckoned he was that sort
—offered a pound for it, but the babbler
held out for double that sum ; before we
left, however, he reconsidered things and
said he would “take a quid.” It was
too late; the erstwhile buyer produced
a similar one —“same size, same color,
same shape,” he pointed out. “And I
bought it from a shearer for a bob,” he
added ; “this’ll do me.”
* * * *
“Jachris”: Queer notices? One that
amused me has recently been placed at
each corner of an 8ft. by 5ft. enclosure
half-way across Sydney’s Martin-place.
It reads: Pedestrian Refuge.
$ * * *
“Runa”: A woman who runs an ex-
clusive little business in a M.L. town was
brewing a cup of tea in the kitchenette at
the back, when, glancing at the shop, she
found two plump Jersey cows in posses-
sion. One of them was wedged tightly
behind the small counter, while the other
was happily chewing a five-guinea silk
blouse and swishing her tail contentedly
over the meal. Two stout citizens re-
sponded to the shoplady’s yells for help,
and managed to eject the blouse-eating
bovine. The other was so firmly wedged
that the small counter had to be wrenched
from the floor to permit her ejection.
Damages were well over £20.
# * * *
“Fong Tsz”: One of the curious land-
marks of Nanking, which the Japanese
bombers will almost certainly attack
under the impression that they are
destroying the local poultry farm, is the
old examination hall. It consists of long
rows of sheds, on the best pre-war
Petaluma model, divided into cells a
few feet across, from which as much
air, light and other distraction as pos-
sible have been excluded. On examination
day in the old Imperial years, each cell
had its aspiring master, solemn, suffo-
cating and spectacled as he leant in his
long robe over his disquisition on Con-
fucianist ethics and philosophy which
was to start him on the way to becom-
ing a Red Button mandarin. But those
good old days are gone. The sheds have
been empty since 1909, and Chinese
examinations have come to be modelled
to the Chinese conception of matricula-
tion and degree tests as applied in the
academies of Calcutta and Bombay.
* * * *
“Engee”: Humorous telegrams (B.
15/9/’37)? The late Alex. Sass, the
artist, was spending a holiday at New-
stead (Vic.), and his two pupils, Hal
Gye and the late Cecil Hartt, were going
up to join him. At Kyneton, they jocu-
larly sent him a telegram: “Arriving to-
day’s train. In a hurry. Please excuse
bad writing.” The postmistress at New-
stead entered into the spirit and Sass
received the wire in copperplate!
# ❖ * :jc
“D.E.”: In one of The Bulletin’s
articles on old boxers there was a refer-
ence to Yankee Sullivan, who committed
suicide in San Francisco because he pre-
ferred taking his own life to being de-
ported by the Vigilantes to Australia,
whence he had escaped as a convict.
There were two Vigilance Committees in
“ ’Ullo, sir , I ’card y' was dead.”
’Frisco; Sullivan fell under the dis-
pleasure of the second, which operated in
1855. The first, which dated from 1851,
was “formed to deal with lawless bands
of Chileans, Mexicans and Australian
gaolbirds” who had established themselves
in ’Frisco. The alleged Australians,
“emancipists from Sydney, and old lags
from Norfolk Island,” formed a quarter
known as Sydney Town, which soon be-
came “the Alsatia of the Pacific.” They
fought pitched battles with the gentle-
men from Chile, which James Edmond
once described as “a long, thin republic
with murder in its eye” ; but ultimately
all the bands were tackled by the Vigi-
lance Committee. The latter hanged first
“a Sydney convict named Jenkins,” who
when apprised of his impending fate was
“coolly smoking a cigar.”
In five minutes he was hanging froni the
old adobe Customs House, 300 citizens
lending a hand to the rope.
Next Whittaker and McKenzie, two
“Sydney Coves,” were arrested “for
various crimes” and scragged “from the
loft of the Committee house, by the ordi-
nary lifting tackle for heavy goods.”
Meanwhile the Vigilance Committee had
“appointed a sub-committee of 30 to
board every ship that crossed the bar, seize
all persons suspected of being ‘Sydney
Coves,’ and reship them to New South
Wales.” When it had transported all the
Coves upon whom it could lay hands, it
issued a proclamation to the effect that
it considered its duty done. Charles
Dilke tells the story in his Greater
Britain. His version is picturesque, but
didn’t he lay the colors on too thick?
“Jason”: According to “T.D.M.” (R.P.
22/9/’37) the voyage of the Duifhen,
which was in the Gulf of Carpentaria
in 1606, begins our recorded history,
Posdhlv it does ns fir ns the written
Possibly it does, as tar as the written
word goes but in Battye s H,story of
West Australia it is pointed out that
there is evidence of the western coast of
the continent having been known to
Europeans long before that. The evidence
rests upon sixteenth-century maps, some
of which are in the British Museum,
others in Paris, showing a coastline too
like that of Nor-West Australia to have
been the effort of anyone s imagination
It was once thought that all these had
been modelled on old-time Portuguese
o h 5 rt l; 1,6 n"T e? i 8 . T " a
fled, but a historical investigator named
Major, after examining the names on an
engraved map of the world by Orontius
Finseus, dated 1531, and comparing it
with others, decided that the words used
were not gallicised Portuguese but Pro-
venial French. His conclusion was that
Australia was discovered neither by Por-
tuguese nor Dutch, but by Frenchmen,
and chiefly by men of Provence, in or
before 1531—over 70 years before the
Duifhen’s crew landed on Australian
sol l.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: Adelaide’s new water stor-
age, Mount Bold, on the Onkaparinga,
has filled and overflowed within seven
months of its completion. The dam is
150 ft. high and over 700 ft. across, and
the capacity nearly 7000 million gallons,
which just about doubles the city’s re-
sources. Adelaide could now stand up
to a two years’ drought.
“Colonel Bungstarter”: “Centurion’s”
par. about the proposed formation by
the British War. Office of a special ban-
tam unit for expeditionary service in
troop-carrying ’planes in India and Egypt
is a reminder that modern warfare does
not require individual strength so much
as skill and brains. Psychologically,
light men are better military material
than the average size. As well as being
easier to carry, they need less cover,
sleeping-space and uniform-yardage. Six-
foot Mulvaneys look fine, but Ortheris
was the brains of Soldiers Three.
David and Goliath afford the Christian
instance of the efficacy of brains against
brawn.
* :j: * *
“Light Company”: That reference to
Light Infantry (B. 22/9 / ’37) recalls a ser-
vice legend. In mid-Victorian days an
infantry regiment in the West Indies was
forgotten by the War Office and left in
seclusion for over 20 years. One day
the W.O. woke up and recalled the lost
heroes. So- much is fact, but from here
on fiction begins. The regiment had not
grown old gracefully ; the junior subs,
were corpulent advertisements for West
Indian hospitality, and many of the other
ranks outdid their officers. The W.O.
plastered them with praise and bestowed
a pay bonus. Then it suggested that all
n.c.os. and men could take their dis-
charge with full pension rights, while
officers were guaranteed a supplementary
grant from the W.O. on the price of
their commissions. Fired by the adula-
tion the regiment to a man said it would
stick to the colors. The W.O. pondered
for a few days and announced that in
view of its splendid service record the
regiment was gazetted a L.I. unit. In
the midst of a welter of self-congratula-
tion the colonel received notice that the
general commanding the district would
put the regiment through a field day in
full marching order, and that as L.I. all
movements must be performed at the
double. It was summertime, and the
Long Valley at Aldershot was chosen
for the inspection. Half-way through
the regiment had almost ceased to exist,
the greater part of it having been carted
off to hospital with heart failure and
heat apoplexy. Next day 90 per cent, of
the repatriates threw in the towel and the
business of building up with new and
younger drafts was begun.
* * * *
“Eyes Right”: You can’t beat the
Army for red-tape. The “Commonwealth
Gazette” informs its readers that “No.
572, bay gelding, branded DD on off
front hoof, having died, is struck off the
strength of Army remounts. God save
the King.”
>S * * *
“Tuart”: The disparity between the
sexes revealed by the Victorian electoral
rolls emphasises the stupidity of the Dun-
stan legislation that struck at matri-
monial bureaux. In Melbourne and
suburbs there are 365,345 women quali-
fied to vote and only 311,841 men. In
country districts —as in inland parts
everywhere else —men are in the majority;
but over the whole State there is a
female surplus of 34,358 —sufficient for
three average country electorates. It is
a social fact which should make politi-
cians think, if they are capable of think-
ing. The cause is to be found in the
fi ne history of Victorians as a colonising
People. Since the sixties, and especially
times were bad, there has been a
P enodlcal exodus from Victoria to the
remotest parts of Australia and to lonely
la * ds m od ? e , r P ar sof a “ d
st,l l mor t e dlstant ? laces - all the f
emi Srants were young men, and many of
Sa”ked n h V ea r dston”s “in
bush k d cemeteries ftom c oo i g S ardie t 0
r ,
y * *
, tT TT . ,
Jamwood : Has lovely woman ever
fallen under the sway of a sillier craze
than slimming? A Canadian lecturing
j n Melbourne blames slimming for the
p ar j ous state of the wheat market from
1931 ons an d it has been responsible for
an appalling amount of ill-health in the
young female. Many foolish victims
have gone under to t.b.; others, as any
alienist will tell you, if you can get him
to talk, have lost their reason because
their enfeebled systems couldn t stand up
to the strain of modern life. And it is
just an inane surrender to a Hollywood
stunt, put over by photographers and
press agents because Hollywood for its
own peculiar purposes, chose to break
with the ages-old tradition that women
should be well-nourished and have
curves. I suppose it is still true that
worn® dress to ttgmen. bu they
dont slim to please mem. iNot one
man in fifty wants to look tw.ee at a
skinny girl.
SHIPS.
I have often wondered who
Names the ships that ride the sea;
Crawling in on the morning tide
We met the schooner Caribbee,
Outward-bound and southward-bound,
Far away to islands sunny.
All at once my visions rose:
Bullion-bars and Spanish money;
Brown-eyed maidens, laughing, young,
Slender-hipped and blossom-breasted;
Trees with pawpaws heavy-hung;
Gaudy parrots, crimson-crested;
Coco-palms with feathery plumes;
Soldier-crabs and beaches sandy;
Dancing-floors and drinking-rooms,
And a fiddler sipping old French brandy.
Sliding out on the morning tide,
We met a steamer making in.
She was spick and she was span,
Shining like a brand-new pin;
Engines steady, polished rails,
Everything in shipshape order;
And I looked to see her name
When the pilot climbed aboard her.
It was Henry B. McClure,
And I had another vision:
Office-boys with manner sure;
Typists typing with precision;
Tight-lipped clerks and telephones;
Flat-topped desks and bills of lading;
Fortunes growing day by day,
Built on canny tropic trading.
I would rather go to sea
On a schooner called La Caribbee.
QUEENSLAND.
L. O'NEIL.


“Wentilla”: For 14 years a Riverina
Lothario had paid for a single crop of
his wild oats, and it consoled him to
think that his responsibility had ended.
“You’re 14 now,” he told the youth
who had been sent to collect the final
cheque. “Tell your mother she’ll get
no more money from me —I’m your
father no longer.” Which unpleasant
message probably deserved the jolt that
the stripling brought back. “Please,
mister, me mother says to tell you that
you never were me father!”
* * * ¥
“Bight”: Reference to early-day
American whalers (B. 15/9/’37) recalls
that one of these saved the two survivors
of Eyre’s expedition from Fowler’s Bay
(S.A.) to Albany (W.A.) in 1841. The
party originally consisted of Eyre,
Baxter and three abos. That was in
February. In April Baxter was murdered
while asleep, his two black assailants
escaping into the bush with almost the
whole of the supplies. Eyre and Wylie
(the third native) struggled on for five
long weeks. When almost at the end of
their resources and strength they came
to Thistle Cove, where they discovered
the American whaler Mississippi, Captain
Rossitter. The latter was generosity
itself, and Eyre and his companion set
out again refreshed, after a 10-days stay
aboard. Albany was reached on July 8.
❖ * * *
“Brick Court”: N.S.W. Justice David-
son, who was recently in London, has
been telling a Sydney newspaper of a
faux pas he committed at an Inns of
Court dinner by rising to his feet when
the toast of “The King” was proposed.
Templars, he was assured by some kindly
neighbor, were exempt from that act of
courtesy by some musty precedent dat-
ing from the time of Charles 11. I don’t
know if that is so, but I have an idea
that English Judges, as direct represen-
tatives of the Crown, are entitled to the
“Phwat you doin' there?"
“Laying pipes, Mr. O'Gorman."
"Well, come up here and lay 'em where l can be seein 'em."
same privilege, or right, not only at the
Inns of Court, but anywhere else where
the royal toast is about to be honored,
A story used to be told of a new
Judge who, with an older colleague, was
attending a banquet while on circuit, and
who unthinkingly upended himself when
the chairman announced “Gentlemen, the
Queen.” His fellow-ludship grabbed him
peremptorily by * the coat-tails. “Sit
down, brother,” he directed. “We are
the Queen.”
* * * *
“Tripod”: Reference to the bolting of
our Portuguese allies during the German
break-through of Easter, 1918, reminds
me of a jest still heard occasionally at
battalion reunions. The story goes that,
when the Lisbon Government proposed
to follow the lead of the other com-
batant nations by erecting a memorial
to The Unknown Soldier, somebody ob-
jected that it would be impossible to
conceal his identity—everyone would
know who he was.
“No. 1”: N.S.W. Governments have
their troubles, too, in fitting square pegs
into round Cabinet holes (B. 15/9/’37).
This is specially noticeable with the Edu-
cation portfolio. Parliament
has always had its small
quota of ex-schoolmasters
available, but some sort of
unwritten law decrees that
none of them should take
office in the Department of
Public Instruction. The loss
is generally the country’s;
when the present Minister
went abroad to study tech-
nical aspects of education
and announced the value of
his “discoveries” on his re-
turn, he was told in plain lan-
guage by the delegates to the
recent world-wide Education
Conference here that his de-
partment was out of date by
decades. Any practical
teacher could have told him
that, and saved the taxpayers
the expense of his trip. On
the other hand, Health port-
folios have generally fallen
into the hands of medicoes
all over Australia. The only
notable exception I can re-
call is Billy Hughes, who, of
course, knows something about every-
thing.
* * * *
“241”: A young prisoner who made a
break from Long Bay gaol, his excuse
being that he wanted to marry, received
a cumulative sentence of nine months
added to the six months he was serving.
Sometimes a surprising leniency is shown
to gaol escapees, usually in consideration
of the privations they have endured
before being recaptured ; what made the
penalty so heavy in this case was prob-
ably the fact that when put upon work
in the gaol vegetable garden the prisoner
was on parole, which he had broken. To
escape from the vegetable garden, which
is outside the gaol proper, iperely means
scaling a high wall on which there is no
guard. And there is another punishment
besides what the Law awards to a parole-
breaker in the treatment he is likely to
receive from his fellow-prisoners. When-
ever there is an escape there is always a
tightening-up of regulations for those who
remain. Usually an escapee when recap-
tured is transferred to another jug.
“Creel”: “Bray Rock’s” complaint
(B. 8/9/’37) about our unexploited sar-
cline wealth is timely, but the trouble is
that the fish cannot be canned at a profit
under existing conditions. I was con-
“How does a bloke go about joinin’ these lifesaoin' clubs?"
nected with an Australian co. which
started a canning factory at the Murray
Islands, Torres Strait, in the very middle
of our best sardine-fishing grounds. A
lot of capital was sunk in the business,
and southern firms were not only ready
to handle the product, but many of them
were prepared to invest in the enterprise.
The venture, however, proved a failure,
shipping freights being so heavy that the
sardines could not be landed in southern
cities to compete with the imported
article. Sample cans distributed were
vo.ec. exceUen. by aU who tried the tar-
££ “factory
ships have been sardine-fishing in neigh-
boring waters for years past.
* * * *
“Knight B”: Was Sir Henry Browne
Hayes, the exile of Vaucluse, really the
fashionable dandy that a recent “S.M.H.”
article, following the Aust. Encyc., de-
picted him? The Old Country story
about him, quite recently related in the
London “Observer,” is very different. He
is described as working proprietor of a
tannery who had been elected a member
of the Cork corporation. Having occa-
sion to post after the Viceroy with im-
portant letters he arrived late at night
and found that gentleman far gone in his
cups. To add to the gaiety of the even-
ing the tipsy nobleman knighted the mes-
senger, and everybody duly enjoyed the
joke, except Hayes himself, who took
his new dignity seriously. He decided
that a wife with money would
adorn his new title, and tried unsuccess-
fully to abduct an heiress. As regards
his final surrender to the law, he is said
to have gone fifty-fifty with his barber in
the 1000-guineas reward offered for his
apprehension, being satisfied that no
Cork jury would convict him. His fore-
cast was wrong, and he became the first
settler at Vaucluse. The fact that the
“quality” aspired neither to knighthoods
nor municipal office in those days and
that Regency bucks had little liking for
tanneries suggests that the foregoing ver-
sion is more likely to be correct than the
picturesque story offered in Australia for
home consumption.
* * * *
“Salmon Gums”: When advertising the
birth of our first hostage to fortune I
was prepared for the pram-catalogues
and baby-food samples which arrived by
every mail What I found a little start-
ling, however, was tho attention devoted
to me by purveyors of birth-control
appliances and specifics. I don’t know
how the law stands and whether the
senders of such stuff are taking a chance
on the indecent-literature count, but pre-
sumably it’s a well-established practice.
The advertisers have nothing to learn in
the matter of boosting, but one claim at
least is worth recording. The go-getter
described his particular specific as the
most natural method of achieving its
object.
# * * *
“Verdad”: Americans have elevated
“service” at petrol dispensaries to a fine
art. When you drive up, one man cleans
the windscreen and all the windows with
a damp chamois cloth, while the pump
attendant gives you petrol (but you must
call it gas). They attend to the water,
oil, battery and tyres. Spotlessly clean
rest-rooms are provided with hot and
cold water, paper towels, liquid soap
and other amenities, and iced water to
drink and to fill your thermos is pro-
vided without charge.
“EAT MORE WHEAT.”
“Slimming wrecked the wheat market, and recovery
is threatened by the vogue for wasplike waists.”
—Moan of a lecturer in Melbourne.
O damsels (and dames) beatific.
Who hold, to hit masculine taste,
The soundest and surest specific
Is a wasplike and willowy waist,
In your struggle for figures ethereal,
Have you ever a thought for the pain
You cause, and the damage material,
To the sellers of sustenance cereal,
The growers of grain?
What though, at the fiats of fashion,
To hour-glass ensembles you cling,
And your tucker relentlessly ration
To a sliver of toast and a wing
Of chicken—the fare of the jockey
Who’s wasting for Flemington whirls—
You’re making the going more rocky,
Each day you persist, for the cocky.
Take heed to it, girls!
N.S.W.
PIPARDS.


Ik
My throat is grateful for
that extra touch of quality
D383
CRAVENA
ARE MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS
10 for 9°
20 for 16
TIPPED CIGARETTE
TH,g generation
POLITICAL POINTS
“The choice for Victorian electors is
between a continuance of the present
C.P. Government and a return to rule
by the U.A.P.” That’s how the “Age ’
sees it. The “Age” writer and the Dun-
stan faction must be the only persons
in Victoria who take it for granted that
Labor will, be content with the igno-
minious paft assigned to it. If Labor
comes back with more Assemblymen
than the Cockies and Tunnecliffe doesn’t
yank them off the Treasury benches, it
will get a leader who will.
“The British radical press is campaign-
ing for sanctions against Japan.” It has
also campaigned for sanctions against
Italy, and for a boycott of Nazi Germany,
and for disarmament, and for leaving the
defence of the Empire against military
nations maddened by sanctions to the
windbags of the League.
If the “Argus” wasn’t dreaming, after
inducing three hardy agriculturists to put
their names on a Vic. Cocky Senate
ticket, the “central council” told them
it was sorry but they hadn’t the shadow
of a ghost of chance. It seems another
way of saying that if the confiding soil-
ticklers nominate they will not only do
in their deposits but hasten the dishing
of Dunstan.
The Victorian Assembly rolls show
that Gippsland East has 8040 electors,
Benambra 8954, Swan Hill 9407, War-
anga 9493, Upper Goulburn 9761, Ouyen
10,511 and Warrenheip-Grenville 10,637.
They are all Country party electorates ;
in fact, the 20 C.P. members represent
only 220,612 electors altogether. On the
other hand, Oakleigh has 32,314 electors,
Boroondara 31,327, Dandenong 30,516,
Heidelberg 29,703, St. Kilda 28,999,
Brighton 28,968, Kew 27,563, Caulfield
27,834, Prahran 27,499 and Toorak
26,264. All U.A.P. divisions, and their
members speak for more electors than
all the C.P. chaps. Yet Dunstan and
Hocking the Kingmaker have the gall
to sneer that the U.A.P. is “non-represen-
tative.”
With 20 seats in. the Assembly, the
Dunstan Government has been running
Victoria since April, 1935. It transpires
that the occupants of the 20 seats have
only 220,612 electors, whereas the U.A.P.
(24) has 517,100 and Labor (18) 378,622.
In other days the “Age” would have de-
nounced this enthronement of a minority
as a fraud on Victoria. Now it affects
to rejoice at “an alignment which,
to the people’s advantage, yields centre-
party Government.”
Fraser, who is standing for Prahran
(Vic.), predicts that if Labor wins both
State and Commonwealth elections the
40-hour week will be introduced almost
immediately. It shows just how far Vic.
Labor will ride with the Dunstan party
if it comes back with the greater number
of seats. According to Dunstan, “an
exhaustive inquiry” will be necessary
before a shorter working week can be
even considered.
F. E. Edmunds, who nearly became
M.H.R. for Ballarat instead of Fisken,
now retiring, is out for the Warrenheip-
Grenville Assembly seat against Hogan,
who, Labor Premier when Dunstan was
merely a member of one of the Opposi-
tion groups, is now Dunstan’s Minister
of Agriculture. There is some feeling
among local Labor people because the
A.L.P. bosses threatened to expel any
comrade opposing the Hogan they them-
selves expelled, and it may be expressed
in some invalidating of ballot papers, if
not in transfer of votes. In any case,
Edmunds is no mean adversary.
“Broadcasting must be essentially and
exclusively a publicly-controlled utility.”
That appeared in Federal Labor’s elec-
tion blue-book, and commercial radio in-
terests straightway recalled what Beasley
had said at an A.L.P. picnic:
Nothing short of absolute cancellation of
B-class licenses and their reallotment will
suit the Labor party.
It was expected that Curtin would make
some reference to this subject in his
policy speech. He said nothing about it,
and his silence is giving rise to all sorts
of surmises.
Sectarianism is going to be a factor
in some of the constituencies on October
2 and October 23. A very unfortunate
development, but one not to be ignored.
On the other hand, Communist support
for Labor, on the ground that a. Labor
Government would be the next best
thing to a Soviet Government, will affect
“Patent-medicine vendors can make the most outrageous claims in the press and over the
air, and nobody can say ‘boo’ to them. It is really shameful.”
— Dr. Morris, N.S.W. Director of Health.
“Ladies and gents, I’m offering this wonderful Election Elixir, guaranteed to whisk
you straight into prosperity, and the price is only one vote.”
certain votes, as also will furious Labor-
paper attacks on people opposed to the
Spanish Reds. Hence the possibility of
results unlooked-for by both paities.
“Young” Arthur Henderson, M.P.,
said in Melbourne “that there will always
be a large proportion of unemployed in
Britain as long as the capitalist system
lasts—there are no unemployed in
Russia.” Perhaps it is because half
the Soviet Russians are occupied in spy-
ing on and trying and buffeting the
other half.
Fairbairn, M.H.R., may have no
Labor opponent, the redistribution hav-
ing made his electorate, Flinders, a cer-
tainty for his party. It was really 10 years
overdue. If the job had been done by
1929 Bruce wouldn’t have lost Flinders
that year. Then he would have become
leader of the Opposition, and wouldn’t
have gone to London, and nobody would
ever have thought of asking him to step
aside for Lyons. Joe must be glad that
Stanley let redistribution rip.
It is nothing unusual for ballot papers
to be spoiled when a member is elected
at a joint sitting in Canberra or Sydney.
One would scarcely expect it to happen
in that haunt of all the talents the League
of Nations Assembly. When Red Spain
asked for the re-election of its represen-
tative on the League Council, it was de-
feated by 24 to 23 (a two-thirds majority
is necessary) and five votes were in-
formal. The defeat is attributed to the
concerted action of Latin-American
countries, which know Red Spain too
well.
Melbourne “Age” applauds S.A. Labor
for dropping pre-selection. It had pre-
viously mentioned without comment that
the Cocky faction it is supporting was stag-
ing a ballot in Wimmera in flat repudia-
tion of the “open go”—evidently in the
hope of getting rid of McClelland, who
belongs to the other lot of
that Dunstan had written “a personal
note” asking that no C.P. candidate be
nominated against the sitting C.P. mem-
bers, especially his pet Lamb, of Lowan.
“Age” leader-writers must swallow hard
when they write the puffs for the office’s
present hero.
Basic - wage increases are adding
£1,500,700 to the N.S.W. State Govern-
ment bill alone this year —at least, that is
Stevens’s estimate. A timely reduction
of taxes that affect prices of necessaries,
notably sales tax and such of the customs
and excise duties as are for revenue only,
would have checked the rising tendency
and mitigated the effect on Common-
wealth and State Budgets, but Casey
couldn’t see it.
Diggers in conference have no use for
politicians’ compromises. It was put to
their N.S.W. Congress that they should
ask the State Government to abolish their
Preference Act. Motion defeated by 200
to 4. Then a resolution in favor of re-
introducing compulsory training was car-
ried unanimously. They took it along
to Parkhill, who replied that the volun-
tary system was giving satisfaction. So
it is—to Parkhill. It saves him risking
votes.
When the gasworkers had their stay-in
strike in Melbourne and the owners of
the property wrote to Dunstan about it,
the latter’s reply was “It’s a matter for
the Commissioner.” When Brisbane
brewery hands went camping in the Milton
beer-factory, Forgan Smith was under-
stood to have ejaculated “Imphm!” or
something like that. He waited until the
stay-in strikers (their union also) had
literally put themselves out of court—
the Industrial Court; then he had them
quietly and efficiently removed by the
police. Unlike the “Age’s” idol, Forgan
Smith seems to cling to the old-fashioned
belief that it is the business of a Gov-
ernment to govern. Labor Premier, too.
Benevolent advice to N.S.W. wage-
payers when the basic wage went up:
The Commissioner of Railways (Mr. T. J.
Hartigan) says he is very glad to pay it.
Mr. Hartigan appeals to captains of indus-
try not to deprive workers of their wage
rise by putting up the cost of living. Such
an appeal from one of the biggest employers
in Australia should not be lost on the
private employer.
That precious bit of snuffle appeared in
the Sydney “D.T.” on July 6. On Sep-
tember 22 Mr. Hartigan announced
through Mr. Stevens, who provides him
with interest-free loans, an annual
£BOO,OOO from the Treasury and exemp-
tion from rates and taxes, that freight-
rates on wool, livestock, wheat, hay, chaff
and other commodities were up 10 p.c.
The Stevens Government has intro-
duced a bill applying the Federal
basic-wage increase to State awards,
hitherto founded on the State basic wage.
The Federal basic wage is supposed to
provide for a family of five, and the
State basic wage for a family of three,
the difference being used for child en-
dowment. An election period having
set in, it suits the Stevens Government
to forget all about that, and also to look
absent-minded and remote when some-
body mentions that child endowment is
now paid out of the proceeds of unem-
ployed-relief taxation.
Our P.M. is popularly considered the
mildest-mannered politician that ever
mouthed a platitude, but Beasley has un-
masked him as a devilish plotter. His
insidious associate, it seems, is Litvinov,
and together they “concluded” a “War
Pact” in London. How about a card?
LYONS AND LITVINOV.
The World’s Warmakers.
Secret Treaties A Specialty.
Unlimited Supply of Gas Always on Hand.
You Want Bloodshed? Bombing Raids?
Pitched Battles?
Send an Order to the Old Reliables!
Armageddon Arranged. No Waiting!
Sufficient Address: “JOEALO, CANBERRA”;
“LITMUS, MOSCOW.”
The chairman of Stevens’s new Milk
Board has discovered that annual pro-
duction of milk in the very restricted
zone from which Sydney and Newcastle
supplies are drawn is 70 million gallons,
and annual consumption only 30 million
gallons. He was assured by a witness at
the inevitable inquiry that there is no
truth in the story that milk is thrown
away so that the artificial price of 7d.
a quart may be maintained.
On “stop” days milk is separated, cream
is sent to the butter factory and skimmed-
milk given to stock.
Stock, eh? Pigs or ants?
“S. M. Herald,” in a blurb for its
“Mail”:
Professor Roberts writes this week upon
the wonderful work of the Russian Govern-
ment ....
It would be an unusual week if some
Sydney University professor didn’t “write
upon the vi'onderful work of the Russian
Government,” or bawl about it on the
air. A recent professorial bawler con-
veyed the impression that he thinks
British “Imperialists” a sorry lot because
they retain an early-Victorian prejudice
against a Russian alliance, and won’t
have a smack at Germany, Italy or
Japan, or all three.
[J. E. Webb and Cecil Mann, 252 George-
Street, Sydney.]


i£"W3 //5vTV f /-4. COy£-l dsUrtujyiM /Z&^-?FaXz£i
pJ K J 'V~-k I Mfc\ 35?^ A fS® - fe!L
| m%\ 4Wp¥|S?
s -t ii vW is? gjLLi i£jHr
riffAg \|j JJSj feSA
By ABIE
Whenever l goto the Mountains
Or climb tor a view of the sea
Or coander mid parterres and fountains
It ’s funny (ohat happens to me —
Wherever with awe men are smitten,
Wherever a flapper exclaims,
A myriad names nave been written,
And 1 can’t get my mind off the names.
Names and addresses, addresses and names!
On walls and on ceilings, on pictures and frames —
The fact of a visit each entry proclaims
Whatever the place
Wherever there’s space —
In any old region they come by the legion ,
The crowded,bewitching, preposterous names !
It’s not that these beauty-spots bore me ;
Their grandeur has no chance to pall —'
1 can t see the valleys before me ,
While reading the names on the wall. '
They say that the view is like Heaven.. .•
No doubt J J.SKAGGS said the same
When on 28/7/11 |\|£
He branded this tree with his name J l
And who was P WINKLES of WARREN ?
And whowas Z.CURTIS of KEW ?
Was REGINALD W. MORRAN
A son of the Morran 1 knew ?
Perhaps this one here might be DOLAN
Who sat just behind me at school
And here’s one loe seen at Jenolan
Or else on a rock at Thirroul...
Names arid addresses, addresses and names!
Old codgers,young flappers.half-axes and dames
Wilh neighbours and strangers,neco lovers,old flames,
On statues and rocks
On Post-Office clocks —
On cliffs and sheer faces, impossible places.
The daring, seductive,mysterious names 1
My instinct, perverse and erratic,
Denies me a look at the uiew —
While others are growing ecstatic
I’m reading, J. SMITH, DUNEDOO -
And wondering who was T. KEELING
And how many hours did he spend
In carving his name on the ceiling
And whether Nl. JONES was his friend.


0uh$iote»uuf£cuf4
LARGE,
SMALL
HORSESHOE
We use over a quarter million
buns and rolls each year.
You like yours buttered? Well,
everyone has different ideas I don't
care for butter on mine I can recom-
mend the Victoria Palace, though, to those
who like excellent cuisine and accommoda-
tion Australia’s largest, most modern hotel
There were a quarter million satisfied guests
last year
2
1-229 LIT. COLLINS STREET. MELBOURNE C 1 (Next Town Hall)
VICTORIA PALACE
5
ENGINE RELIABILITY
OIPIHOS OB SPARKING PUGS
-YOU CAN DEPEND ON
Champions
To keep your car lively '/ ¥/j/ . /, -y
in good and bad weather .Jamzdlll!/ *iL
... to help it to be your ***** -,,fc *
reliable servant... install
new Champions once
every year. They reduce
carbon formation. They
save money!
An Empire Product —
made in Windsor. Canada
sm
j
Obtainable at all leading
automotive supply dealers
PERSONAL ITEMS
No one is better qualified to conduct
the search for the Russian fliers lost on
their trans-Polar journey from Moscow
to Alaska in August than Hubert
Wilkins, who has returned to the U.S.A.
for a ’plane that will stand up to Arctic
conditions. Seven years ago Wilkins was
the first to fly over the North Pole, where
Russia has established an aeroplane base.
And the Aussie was 42 then.
At 37, A. H. Telfer becomes Under-
secretary of the W.A. Mines Department,
after training for the job as Registrar and
Assistant Under-Secretary. A while back
the Commonwealth sought his advice on
the organisation of the Mines Depart-
ment in the N.T. and the drafting of
new mining legislation.
“Coot”: When T. W. Mitchell, U.A.P.
candidate for Benambra (Vic.), visited
Koetong to open his campaign, the local
brass band turned out in kilts, as a tribute
to his Scottish ancestry. The kilts were
a mixed lot, and, sporrans being unob-
tainable, the bandsmen wore the straw
envelopes from beer bottles.
Col. Llewellyn Partridge, who looked
in on Sydney en route to Maoriland for
a trout-fishing holiday, has been A.D.C.
King’s A.D.C.
to three Kings, George V., Edward VIII.
and George VI. He comes from Stroud,
in Gloucester, near an aerodrome in
which Australian pilots were trained dur-
ing the war. He believes that English
people are not keen to have a male heir
to the throne, Princess Elizabeth being
accepted as the King’s successor; that
George VI. has been more successful
than expected ; and he thinks it hard to
say what reception Windsor would get
should he return to England.
John Delappe Lankester, oldest resi-
dent of Albury (N.S.W.), has reached the
century mark. At Sydney in the ’sixties
he was a captain in the volunteer forces,
but went down to Albury 70 years ago
to manage Fallon’s Murray Valley vine-
yards, afterwards taking over the man-
agement of Ettamogah. His repute as a
connoisseur of wines was high enough
to secure his appointment as sole judge
at one of the South Australian wine ex-
hibitions.
C. W. Wilson, for many years pro-
prietor of Scott’s Hotel in Melbourne,
put on a spread to celebrate the 100th
anniversary of the establishment. Scott’s
started as the Lamb Inn, has had a
license continuously since September 19,
1837, and has never occupied any other
site. Mark Twain, Rudyard Kipling,
Rolf Boldrewood and others have written
of it, and many famous pastoral prop-
erties have changed hands in its auction
room. It is the first business in Mel-
bourne to celebrate its centenary.
Edward Stephens, of Stawell, now in
his 98th year, claims to be the oldest
native-born citizen of Victoria. His
father worked for Fawkner in Tasmania
and came to the mainland to help Fawk-
ner produce the first newspaper, the Mel-
bourne “Advertiser,” which was eventu-
ally incorporated in the “Argus.”
Stephens has spent a vigorous life on the
land, and up to two years ago rode on
horseback and drove a buggy to the
Grampians.
William John Dignam, who tackles
Jennings (U.A.P.) in Watson (N.S.W.),
is Sydney-born, and did his early school-
ing at Christian Brothers’, Waverley,
where he shone at maths. LL.B. of Syd-
ney Uni., he has been in practice for 10
years at the N.S.W. Bar, edits the Aus-
tralasian Annual Digest and is co-editor
of the “Law Journal.”
“Wanderer”: Monsignor Gsell, de-
scribed (B. 15/9/’37) as approximating
“more nearly to a feudal bishop than
any other cleric in Australia,” has a rival
in Pastor G. H. Schwartz, who for over
50 years has been running the Cape
Bedford abo. mission (N.Q.). His tall,
powerfully-built figure and his long flow-
ing grey beard are known to all who
frequent the eastern shores of the Cape
York Peninsula. His wife teaches and
his daughter is a trained nurse. There are
over 300 abos. settled the mission, en-
gaged in trochus and beche-de-mer fish-
ing, vegetable- and coconut-growing, and
grass-tree-gum collecting.
A note from “X.T.”:
Dr. Clyde Fenton, soon to retire from the
Northern Territory medical service and now lost
in the bush, is a quiet, spectacled man, the last
one would suspect of being an adventurer.
When he first conceived the idea of a flying
medical service, he had to teach himself to fly.
He has thrown his battered ’planes around the
Territory for years, never refusing a call, landing
in places where a finished pilot would tremble
to land, going on an hour’s notice into wastes
which most fliers would not care to tackle with-
out preparation for an expedition. The country
in which he is now lost is on the edge of the
Gulf rainfall belt in which Providence piled all
the left-over bits from the making of Aus-
tralia —lancewood scrubs, sand, spinifex,' rent
with steep gullies and limestone ridges. Tanum-
birini, for which he was bound, is a lonely tin-
and-rubble station where a few stockmen live
on the Limmen among a mob of dogs. Fenton
is the outstanding hero among outback Terri-
torians, who do not nominate their heroes
lightly.
“Friday Island’’: Died in London this
month John Besley Gillen, son of the
trans-Australian explorer. A good Aus-
tralian, born at Alica Springs, Gillen
served as surgeon-lieutenant in the
R.A.N. during the war. A short man
with the relative energy of an irritated
bull-ant, he had’ been studying for a
year in England for his diploma in
psychological medicine, and was to return
in October to specialise as an alienist in
Adelaide.
C. C. Hillary, secretary of the W.A.
Education Department, leaves for Eng-
land shortly to become secretary of the
State’s London office. He has been with
the Education Department since 1912,
secretary since 1932. His war record
ranged from a lieutenancy in the 44th
to staff-captain of the 11th Brigade of
the A.I.F. and of the 139th British
Brigade. He was twice mentioned in
dispatches.
G. Dalziel Kelly, for seven years presi-
dent of the Victorian Graziers’ Associa-
tion, has resigned because his chairman-
ship of the Australian Wool Growers'
Council and the Wool Board keeps his
hands full. His successor is A. W.
Corney, whose pastoral property at Tulse
Hill, Coleraine, was taken up by his
father over 70 years ago.
Another who has held office for seven
years, Stan Crick, managing director of
Twentieth Century Fox Flm Corpora-
tion, is retiring from the chairmanship
of Hoyts Theatres. He intends confin-
ing himself to the distributing end of
the business. Stan is an alderman of the
Sydney City Council.
“Uramao”: Sir Henry Price’s gift of
£20,000 to promote research into eco-
nomic problems has enabled the Royal
Institute of International Affairs to estab-
lish a chair for that purpose, to which
Professor Allan Fisher has been
appointed. Fisher is a Maorilander, born
in Christchurch in 1895, and has filled
jobs as Prof, of Economics at Otago
(M.L.) and at Perth (W.A.). The Mel-
bourne Uni. and the London School of
Economics taught him the dismal science.
Sydney’s new Belgian Consul, Armand
Nihotte, claims it was a happy romance
that determined his career. Before the
war he visited Australia on a barque and
here met the girl who inspired his dreams.
Called to serve his country in 1914 he
New Belgian Consul.
wondered how he could return to Aus-
tralia, thought of the Consular service,
studied political economy and was
appointed to a staff job in Melbourne,
where he married the girl. For the last
10 years he’s been in Maoriland, where
he opened the first Belgian Consulate.
“N. Coast”: Tom Maddock, of Glen-
view (Q.), now 94, is sole survivor of
Queensland’s North Coast pioneers.
Born in Cornwall, he arrived in Queens-
land on the first immigrant ship, Art-
mesia, in 1848. He took the first mob
of cattle (500 head) into the North Coast
in 1863, and was for years engaged there
in timber-getting and farming. Still an
active farm worker, he helped capture
the abo. bushranger “Captain Piper,”
who murdered the botanist Stephens in
the Mooloolah district in 1869.
C. E. Critchley has a job in the Com-
monwealth public service selling Aus-
tralia’s products abroad. After six years
Sells Australian.
in Canada as Assistant Trade Commis-
sioner, he went to Java with full respon-
sibility and stayed there two years. He
now transfers to Maoriland on a similar
mission, with headquarters at Welling-
ton.
Some October birthdays:
Q’land Home Secretary Hanlon, 50, on Ist;
Federal Assistant-Minister H. V. C. Thorby, 49,
and Prof. Theo Osborn (Syd.), 50, on 2nd;
Chas. P. Smith (“West Australian”), 58, and
Justice Richards (S.A.), 68, on 3rd; Justice
Lowe (Vic.), 57, and Justice Gore (Papua),
49, on 4th; ex-Justice Ferguson (N.S.W.), 76,
on 7th; painter Hans Heysen, 60, Harold
Burston, 48, Brig.-Gen. Herring (Syd.), 56, and
knight Sam Walder (former Lord Mayor of
Sydney), 58, on Bth; Speck Attorney-Gen. E. J.
Ogilvie, 45, on 9th; Dr. D. A. Burnard (Elder
Con. of Music, Adel.), 37, and H. C. Barnard,
M. (Bass), 47, on 10th; poet Dr. C. H,
Souter (Adel.), 73, on 11th; knight Harry Budge
(Syd.), 64, Bishop Dwyer (Wagga Wagga), 68,
Ted Grayndler (gen. sec. A.W.U.), 70, and
Rev. P. J. Hartigan (author of Around the
Boree Log), 58, on 12th; novelist Jack McLaren,
50, on 13th; Prof. Henry Alcock (Q.), 51, and
Rev. James Green (war chaplain), 71, on 14th;
Dr. Darnell Smith (formerly Director of Syd.
Botanic Gardens), 69, and knight John McLaren
(formerly of Australia House, Lond.), 66, on
15th; J. M. Drew, M.L.C. (W.A.), 72, F. W.
Eggleston (Melb.), 62, and Vic. Closer Settle-
ment Commissioner Aird, 45, on 17th; former
N. geologist E. C. Andrews, 67, and Lionel
Lindsay, 63, on 18th; A. W. Lacey (ex-M.H.R.,
now M.H.A., S.A.), 50, and Nina Murdoch, on
19th; A. H. Gaze (British Phosphate Commis-
sioner, Melb.), 52, on 22nd; Bishop Thomas
(Willochra), 56, on 24th; H. S. Dettman (Syd.
Grammar School), 62, on 25th; Archbishop
Killian (Adel.), 65, and H. K. Nock, M.H.R.
(Riverina), 58, on 26th; ex-Vic. Senator Bob
Elliott, 51, Vic. Hon. Min. G. J. Tuckett,
M.L.C., 64, and Lieut.-Col. J. T. H. Goodwin
(Canberra), 72, on 28th; N.S.W. Min. for Social
Services Hawkins, 61, Roland Green, M.H.R.
(Richmond), 52, and Prof. Edwin Pittman (Tas.,)
40, on 29th; Q’land Min. for Transport Dash,
55, knight Hubert Wilkins, 49, Prof. Wadham
(Melb. Uni.), 46, and knight W. R. Carpenter
(Syd.), 60, on 31st.


X 77
*
G
S PR
CRUISE
TO NEW ZEALAND
FARES, FROM:
* Fares include Steamer or Rail Ticket Sydney-Brisbane after cruise.
\
X
\
ORIE
ORIENT STEAM NAVIGATION CO. LTD. INCORPORATED IN ENGLANE


BLACK & WHITE WHISKY “PLURRY GOOD!”
“Old-timer”: Over the drinks we got
talking about old times. “And old Mac,”
I asked, “does he booze as heavily as
ever?” My friend shook his head. “No.
One of his boys sent to Melbourne for
one of those anti-drink remedies. They
put it in his tea secretly.” “And it cured
him?” “Well, he never had another drink
up to the day of his death!” “Dead,
eh? Poor old Mac. When did he die?”
My friend drained his glass. “Two days
after they gave him the drink cure,” he
answered sadly.
*** • *
“The 0.D.”: There is no more impres-
sive sight than that of a wedge-tail eagle,
silhouetted against a blue sky on a wind-
less day, wheeling slowly in vast circles.
The bird ascends into the blue until but
a speck, then slowly volplanes earth-
wards on its great pinions, a spectacle
for poets and kings. A lifelong observer
of the eagle’s habits, I subscribe to the
belief that it is poorly paid for the good
it does by the few lambs it may take in
a season.
* * * *
“Gulf”: The Papuan, by and large, is a
poor observer of nature —unlike the abo.
And he cannot track worth a bunch of
bananas. Everything has always come
too easy for him in his pleasant climate,
so he is never really up against it. Yes-
terday, to-day and to-morrow are each
much the same to him. Relatively, he is
comfortably housed and fed, and his
philosophy is simple. He doesn’t try to
understand what portends, strong winds
or calms, when those cavaliers of the
air the frigate-birds majestically appear
to hover, circle or challenge the ap-
proaching gale. To him they are just
birds, not even of food value, seeing that
he doesn’t possess the means of bringing
them down.
* * * *
“James W.”: Whales apparently use
coral reefs as horses use scratching-posts.
One recently gave a close-up perform-
ance for six of us in a fishing boat out
from Mackay (Q.). We were following
a course about 30 yards from the reef
and parallel to it. Moby Dick’s relation
rose between the boat and the reef and
cruised along at about our speed, roll-
ing this way and that to rub different
parts of his anatomy on the submerged
coral. The water was crystal-clear, and
it was easy to see the whole show. Ap-
parently his object was to rid himself of
barnacles. When he sounded, after about
three minutes of it, the marks of jagged
coral were plainly to be seen on his hide.
* * # *
“Bovis”: If ever “Tadron” had been
mixed up in a fight between two bulls
he’d know whence came the simile “like
a bull at a gate.” The beaten bull may
be fighting madly one minute, and in the
next split second he’s a galloping fury
staying not on the order of his going.
If his isn’t a “blind rush,” then I’ve never
seen one. I’ll admit I’ve never seen one
tackle a gate ; but I have seen a bovine
crumple up a one-horse dray like a pack
of cards. “Like a bull at a gate” suits
me as a descriptive phrase which fills
the bill.
* * * * .
“Zebra”: The fowl that selects some
of the weirdest sites to nest in is the little
waxbill finch of W.Q. That cove seems
to specialise on ridgepoles of tents or in
the bush of a bough-shed at a camp.
One pair outraged every canon of bird
law by building in the Dimora woolshed
"Let them other blokes make the pace. Don’t you take the lead till you git to the big gum.”
while shearing was in progress. Ihe
place they took was just above a door
at one end of the board, with a shearer
within a couple of yards of them all the
time, people passing through the d°or at
odd and irregular intervals, and with the
whirring shaft of the machinery setting
up a draught right at their front entrance.
They did the job, too ; and in due course
five or six bare-bellied little freaks
showed gaping mouths and blue-bruised
eves while they squawked for food above
the roar and rattle of the shed in work,
tne roar ana , ,
“Mat’s Mate”: “Yair,” said Mat, read-
ing “R.W.D.’s” par. (B. 15/9/’37) “there
is some queer things in the bush. Im
sittin’ on a log on the Murray one day,
at a time when the river was low and
very clear. Could see right down about
eight' feet, an’ was watchin’ a cod poke
about on the mud when up swims a
freak. It had a fish’s body, kangaroo’s
legs, and a face like a cat. First I took
it fr one of them mermaids y’ read
about, but when it scratched its head
and looked hard at me, puzzled-like, I
reached for me rifle. Then I. found I
was looking through the distortm water
i„,er an o,d mnror layin' in themud.”
“G.G.6”: Was at Gulnarbor station
during the water-rat plague of 1892, and
can confirm “Murrungurry s story of
their boldness (B. 15/9/37). Ihe
Balonne at the station was full of fine
fish, but the rats ate them off the hooks
as fast as they could be pulled ashore,
and tins of salmon, sardines and herring
were whisked off the shelves before the
maddened storekeeper’s eyes. In the
fowlhouse half a dozen stood by the
laying-boxes each morning, and that
year’s crop of emus was a washout be-
cause the rats ate the eggs from under-
neath the hatching fowls. Worse than
that the rodents stripped the fine old
garden of fruit and vegetables and sold
them in St George, a few miles away.
* * * *
“Erua”: “McAroni” (B. 8/9/’37)
accords the starling very faint praise
when he says the bird “may account for
an occasional grub.” Some years ago a
group of farmers in Taranaki (M.L.) met
agitatedly one evening to discuss a plan
of campaign against an army of green
caterpillars said to be advancing on rich
pasture land on a mile-wide front. As
they disbanded at dusk they noticed the
air seemed full of whirring sounds; at
dawn the noise was greater, and im-
mense flocks of starlings were observed
flying over the countryside. The birds
met the invading army of green crawlers
and accounted for practically the whole
plague. Then the gorged fowls left in a
body
'‘* * * *
“Bungarrer”: If the outback mourns
the passing of the petrol-tin and -case
(B. 15/9/’37), what is it going to do if
the old wheat-bag goes out of date?
Writer was born and bred in a bag
humpy on the Westralian fields. The
bags, opened along one side and white-
washed, made walls which kept out the
sun and yet didn’t steam the interior,
and took only a few minutes to cool off
once Sol had gone down. Outer and inner
walls were made about eight inches apart
and could have been dit wit h
any crib m the d b advantage
cracking. housesA truck—the
of being moved by I™}™™*™* the
disadvantage of being Y
odd sheets of iron during a stor .
* T ,* Th bo in a ter .
Blatch, Jnr. - The boss was m a ter
rifle hurry to dr & ft some mixed sheep
out mto the paddocks e ,
he yelled for IHenry he. new hand to
grab a ewe and ascertain its age Choom
gaped. "Age, sir? Cnpes, how do I find
that out?” “Count its teeth, you fool
and hurry up, will y’?” Five minutes of
frenzied scuffling between Henry and the
ewe followed, t en . bottom
things got 14 on to F’®
ones have all been kn .
* . rp, w : tb
Bogaduck . T 8 „ the usual
us, and I m expec n g ' ,
reports of lo . st b P s f tucker
been more or less in a bad way
or water when found Yet often thesis
water all around *fm, i f they only knew
where to 100 1 ' , a drink in the
it is a simple ma«er to get a drmk inthe
scrub at any tune y ,)
jfc a fy head and turn
it upside down. Withm 30 secon s water
will start to drip fro haJf a ■[
Most trees with a
ot armKanie waiei vi Drov ided
rough bane will yie cb osen but
long and s Jf nd ® r 8 Here vou must
not in mallee country. Y
take a h^ lf : d ® ad ted then start
a fire until it becomes po , h n s
tojd.g witth it around base °t a dump
of mallee that has a broad leat. wnen
you come across a root-runner, break it
by bruising with a sharp stone or by
using your digging-stick as a lever, then
catch hold of the end farthest from the
tree and pull hard. You will usually get
some six or eight feet of ropelike root,
Hold this vertical, and a few teaspoons
of water will drip out. Food is a dif-
ferent matter—unless you can tackle
tucker like bardy grubs or grilled shingle-
back lizard.
* * * *
Formic : For sheer umbrageous
beauty I’ll nominate a good Australian
against all-comers, cultivated, indigenous
or any other sort—the emu-apple, some-
times called gooya. It grows all over
W.Q., but is perhaps at its top in the
rich soil along the Barcoo. Even out in
the Georgina country, with only a 10m.
rainfall, it is a sublime tree. On the
Barcoo it grows up to 30ft., straight ot
stem, with a foliage so thick that a man
can’t see through the outside edge ot it,
evergreen, of a shade varying from deep
to dark green, with a black shadow,
symmetrical, and, in stock country, with
its bottom leaves trimmed off square,
The trouble with the emu-apple is that
it won’t be grown just where a man
wants it. I have yet to hear of a young
tree that would stand transplanting,
* * * *
“Cudgerie”: Regarding “Kali’s” aver-
sion to venison (B. 8/9/’37), I’ve shot
red deer on the reserves near Toogoola-
wah (Q.), where they have been run-
ning for over 90 years—though under
Government protection they are a curse
which ends about mid-year, the stags
can be heard roaring at night; if the
moon is good, there isn’t much difficulty
a ’ mob The venison of a
young stag makes excellent eating after
be j ng hung f or about four days. It has
more flavor than the best of rump steak,
tenderer but firmer in the flesh than
But there j s one essential—the
• gelded before the flesh is
beast worse than
cola oiner
an ancient scruo
■ comes for
’ / f , himself there
Teddy
him firmly in the fork of a tree, leaves
bim and departs to another tree. Teddy,
howling loud protests at this base deser-
tion scrambles down and follows her.
Ma' returns him determinedly to the
original fork, where she dumps him hard.
The process is repeated, interspersed with
ine p Te ddy, wailing dis-
consenti to stay put .
many,
“McAroni”: Always doubted the tales
young for
protection until I saw it. I was
&
w , which were
promp tly swallowed by their parent. I
waited until the last one had disappeared
thinking to account for them all with
one good hit. However, before I could
get my waddy into action, Mrs. Blake
8 t he * own tail in her mouth, and in a
few seconds had joined her family in the
her own insider l had tQ admit
sa Y
my
LONG HORNS.
Around a fireplace, glowing as brigalow burns
low,
We sit, in yarns recalling the days of long ago,
The stirring days, the brave days, when endless
warfare ran
’Twixt man and scrubber cattle, ’twixt scrub
itself and man.
Around the Pine Hills fireplace how oft the
subject turns
To stockhorses and scrubbers as low the last
log burns, . .
For high above the mantel a “piker’s” head is
hung,
Its long horns curving grandly with spear-tips
widely flung.
From when, a frightened yearling, you felt the
hot brand’s sear
The gloom of vine-scrubs claimed you; the
smell of rails brought fear.
Old boy! how timber rattled as your long
horns glanced and swung
To thrust of headlong striding—when you and
I were young.
And, time on time, you beat us —though we
thinned your mates a lot.
Through years you roamed the scrublands and
fence rails knew you not.
Two score of years have drifted adown the
fading past
Since out upon the sandhills you reached the
end at last.
I gaze through drifting pipe-smoke at your
great horns’ wondrous spread—•
Five feet eight inches measured —a truly royal
head.
Again I hear the drumming of hooves and
crash of brush,
And feel the strain on bridle, the stride and
leap, the rush
And sting of wind, and see you, head low, in
that last run.
But distant are the vine-scrubs ... You wheel
to charge. The sun
Peeps out across the sandhills. Shots crash,
and in the grass
You sink with fierce horns lowered, and pass as
kings should pass.
Around the Pine Hills fireplace when brigalow
burns low
The old hands talk of scrubbers and the days
of long ago.
But where the ridges echoed to the roar of rac-
ing feet
When stockhorse vied with scrubber and the
race was to the fleet,
The quiet station cattle camp beneath the
wilga-trees,
And everywhere is quietness, content and fatted
ease ...
Long Horns above the mantel, how old we all
have grown
Since moonbeams lit your gallant curves on
wild nights we have known!
QUEENSLAND.
HEREERI DAWSON.


“E.S.”: The old squatter was lectur-
ing a swagman who had asked him for a
job on his lack of thrift and enterprise,
which the squatter contended was mainly
the reason that men like the swaggie were
tramping the roads, “You don’t seize
your opportunities,” he said. “Look at
me. I started with a team of bullocks.”
“Yes,” said Swaggie, “I’ve heard about
that team of bullocks before. They had
two calves each, twice a year. A man
doesn’t get those opportunities nowadays.
Besides,” he added as he hoisted Matilda
and walked off, “I was always too dashed
scrupulous to start squattin’ with a team
of bullocks.”
* * * *
“F.Y.7”: Though he also used fat as
a basis for dingo baits, an old dogger of
my acquaintance developed a better tech-
nique than “Tamornie’s” expert (B.
15/9/’37). Instead of shoving the
poisoned balls of fat into the ground, he
wrapped each one in paper and stowed
them in a saddle-bag. Dragging a sheep’s
paunch behind him for a trail he dropped
the baits at intervals, first setting fire to
the paper to improve the scent of the
fat and eradicate the human smell. In
summer he mixed just enough flour with
the fat to prevent the baits melting in
the sun.
* * * *
“M.0.P.”: That freak among pearls
the “Magic Eye” has come back to Aus-
tralia with its owner. It consists of a
small black pearl embedded in a larger
“Youll like this one, I'm sure. It has an easterly aspect.”
white one, and is unique. It comes from
the Trobriands in s.-e. Papua, where the
pearling industry flourished once, what-
ever may be the case now. The Trobri-
ands were famous for their colored gems,
which were obtained by native skin-
divers from a sea-mussel—not the
m.-0.-p. shell—and sold to the Greek
community which then dominated the
trade in the islands. These men mostly
sold in turn to European buyers, some
of whom annually visited Samarai for the
purpose.
* *. * *
“M. Turlutu”: Brisbane is in the
throes of an unsolved murder mystery —
an unknown miscreant has done-in the
Zoo cassowary, which for years pecked
at the headgear of unsuspecting visitors
and afterwards attempted to kick them.
An empty bottle near the dead fowl sug-
“Am I right for Norfolk Island ?”
gested a theory that it had stolen some
o.p. Q. rum from a passing roisterer and
had died in consequence. No trace of
alcohol was found in the remains, and
expert opinion pointed out that it would
certainly have swallowed the bottle as
well if it had required a stimulant. A
large bruise on the victim’s neck sug-
gests that the bottle was used as a
lethal weapon. Owing to the proximity
to Parliament House, the matter has
naturally assumed political importance,
and it is rumored that the Government
is wholeheartedly resisting a suggestion
by the Opposition that the bottles in the
Parliamentary refreshment-room be
counted and identified.
* * * *
“Dungeness”: The undefeatable ability
displayed by goats in extracting nourish-
ment and enjoyment from apparently im-
possible materials has been once more
demonstrated at Mt. Isa (N.Q.). The
township’s most poignant social tragedy
took place one recent morning when,
amid deep gloom, 644 gallons of beer
were poured into the dry bed of the
Leichhardt River. This apparent example
of mass insanity was not due to any
victorious attack by the soldiers of tem-
perance upon the demon Drink, but be-
cause the fluid had been pronounced sour
by all local experts, from the excise
officer up. While the dejected male
populace trudged downheartedly home-
ward a flock of 120 goats nosed out a
catchment, and within an hour were
gloriously, uproariously and fightingly
drunk. Till long after sundown envious
and admiring owners were dragging or
carrying home the domestic milk supply,
hoping that the flavor would appear in
the morning’s tea.
“Colon”: The kookaburra that vol-
planed through a sheet of verandah glass
(B. 8/9/’37) and escaped with his
chortle intact was only giving an expen-
sive though simple demonstration on the
power of velocity. It is possible to fire
the butt-end of a wax-candle from a
muzzle-loader through a half-inch pine
board without impairing its rotundity or
subsequent use as an illuminant.
* * * *
“Centre”: Let “Elaps” whistle the next
time he sees a sleeping snake, and per-
haps he won’t be quite so emphatic
about the crawlers being stone-deaf (B.
18/8/’37). I’ve attended tests in India
and S’Africa, and am satisfied they are
as conscious of sound as I am. If a
snake is sensitive only to ground vibra-
tions, how is it that he will turn towards
sounds—they needn’t be called music—
made by either stringed or wind instru-
ments? I’ve watched the wrigglers under
consideration coiled in torpid heaps, appar-
ently asleep, and in every case instant
attention was
taken of the
notes, followed,
often as not, by
move ments to-
wards the sounds.
The producer of
the sounds was
seated on two or
three cushions to
prevent the pos-
sibility of ground
vibrations. I was
satisfied that the
stone-deaf theory,
whatever may
have happened to
Joe Blake’s ears,
is pure bunk.
* *
“Greenhead”:
What is the tele-
graphic system
which ants em-
ploy? Smell may
have something
to do with it,
though I’m doubt-
ful, and I’ve got
a notion they
pick up emana-
tions from the
human body
which aren’t cata-
logued. A man can
tease them out of the nest by shaking
the ground. That’s easy and simple to
understand. Out and looking for stoush,
what leads them to the party of the other
part? A couple of us tested a nest the
other day. I disturbed it by thumping
with a waddy. They came pouring out
and made me do a back-slip. That was
clear enough. Mick then started his
waddy while I lay doggo. Did that draw
them from me to him? It did not! Odd
ones with nothing on their minds turned
and went to see what the blazes Mick
was doing. The main body, and it
was constantly being reinforced, paid
its whole and sole attention to me —
and I wasn’t doing anything. The wind
was blowing off Mick and away from
me. I kept out of range and didn’t get
bitten; but those cusses just seemed to
know where I was, and that I was the
Original cause of the trouble,
* * * *
“Simon”: Recently at a New, Eng-
land town I saw several horses hooked
in turn to a two-ton “monkey”—the bat-
tering-ram arrangement used for pile-
driving. The thing was flat on the turf,
and the biggest animal there could shift
it only about six feet in three pulls. The
noblest beast of them all, though slightly
smaller, choked herself down three times,
but failed to shift the dead weight. As
an exhibition of cruelty it beats cock-
fighting.
# * * *
“Harry N.”: “Groper’s” tree-toppers
(B. 1/9/’37) have nothing on a Gipps-
land Douglas-swinger I saw in action.
For a bet he climbed 95ft. up a fair-
sized mountain-ash, using only one
springboatd, and minus safety belt and
rope. He “topped” the stick in record
time, grounding it exactly in the place
he had marked out for it. His watch
was used for one marker, a new felt hat
for the other. Neither was damaged.
* * * *
“James W.”: Can’t agree that Warrigal
won’t get in the way of motor vehicles
(B. 28/7/’37)! Let the lights of a car
catch him on the road at night and he’ll
do what every other animal does —go
straight ahead till the car runs him down
or he comes to a bend in the road. When
he turns his head to veer off the track
the glare of the lamps blinds him on that
side, and the only way he can see is
straight ahead. The beams are as effec-
tive as are blinkers on a horse.
* * *
“C.V.S.”: Of great interest to botanists
is the pincushion plant of the Tas-
manian highlands. Mushroom-shaped
and about 3ft. in diameter, it resembles a
clump of smooth, dark moss, but is rock-
firm to the tread. Though clinging close
to the ground it is a true tree, showing,
when broken, branch formation from a
central stem descending to a taproot.
The mosslike branch-tips which draw
tight together constrict the plant into a
solid mound to withstand blizzard con-
ditions. A notable feature is its extremely
slow growth, a hoof-print remaining
clearly defined for over 20 years.
* # * *
“First Blue”: Best method of prevent-
ing extinction of the Murray cod is for
the States concerned to prohibit market-
ing for a few years. While profit can be
made from selling cod illicit drum-netting
and cross-lining will always be rife. Cod
may breed in billabongs, as “Hay” (B.
1/9/’37) asserts, but up to date there is no
scientific backing for such a claim. A
few pounds spent on research into their
breeding habits would be of tremendous
benefit. If cod ova could be artificially
hatched out as are those of the imported
trout the problem would be solved.
* * * * *
“Stralia”: Evolution played a foul
trick on the shag when it neglected to
supply him with wing sockets. As a
result, bedraggled birds can often be
seen drying themselves wherever shags
congregate. Most other waterfowl pos-
sess sockets into which the butt of the
wing fits, keeping it dry.
THE OPTIMIST.
The tanks around the run were dry, the sheep
were starving poor;
And ev’ry day the brassy sky was hotter than
before.
But old Bill was an optimist—he’d watch for
every cloud;
And any time the wind would twist he’d think
his thoughts aloud:
“She's in the east —a bonzer sign—and that
there cloud means rain;
I reckon we’re right on its line, and we’ll pull
through again! ”
And as old Bill went chasing round, “This
cloud,” he’d mutter, “ten
To one will strike irs, I’ll be bound; we’ll be on
velvet then.
She’s full of wet; before it’s done we’ll get an
inch to-night.”
Up rolled the dust that hid the sun, and put
the rain to flight.
He still lived on in hope, and so, east, west
and north and south,
He watched the dry clouds come and go, and
double-damned the drouth.
The storm blew up at last. The shed was first
to sway and fall;
The stacks went flying just ahead of garage, car
and all;
The kitchen tilted drunkenly; the office roof
fell in;
You couldn’t talk, you couldn’t see or hear
above the din.
We pulled the .old man out at last, wet through
and nearly dead:
“She came all right—a bit too fast—but still
she came!” he said.
VICTORIA.
P.T. F.


Yrivate executorship
demands sacrifice 5
The demands of knowledge and sacrifice
which a private individual is asked to face %
as an Executor or Trustee are such that he is
rarely, if ever, able to completely fulfil them.
Moreover, the intricacies of estate adminis-
tration often lead to the neglect of the
trustee’s own affairs.
But while the private individual may find
his appointment an intolerable burden, the
functions he has been asked to fulfil are the
everyday work of corporate trustees. If you
wish to surrender a trusteeship or act in an
advisory capacity only, consult us- —an inter-
view can be arranged at any time. The
Trustees Executors and Agency Company
Limited has had nearly 60 years’ experience
in the administration of Estates.
THE TRUSTEES EXECUTORS
&ACENCY COMPANY LTD.
( Incorporated in Victoria in 1878.)
THE OLDEST TRUSTEE COMPANY IN AUSTRALIA
412 Collins Street, Melbourne ... 1-5 Bligh Street, Sydney
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves and Undivided Profits,
£955.805/10/8. Trust Assets under Administration, £29,399,725.
£20.000 has been lodged with the Colonial Treasurer of New Sotith
Wales and £lO,OOO with the Treasurer of Victoria as guarantees for
the proper Administration of Estates.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman), ,
Maj.-Gen. Sir Brudenell White, K.C.8., K.C.M.G., K.C.V.0., D,s>.o.;
R. O. Blackwood, D. Stuart Murray, John Fordyce,
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G.; Sir Lennon Raws, C.B.E.
General Manager: W. Sydney Jones; Manager: K. M. Hughes.
N.S.W. DIRECTORS:
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G. (Chairman),
W. D. Stewart, R. T. Hilder.
N.S.W, Manager- T. W. Russell French.
▼
T 1.16
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1572.
Head Office: Ocean House, 32 Martin Place, Sydney
Invested Funds exceed £500,000.
All classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
VICTORIAN BRANCH: Temple Court, 422-24 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH: Primary Building, Creek & Adelaide Sts., Brisbane.
Claim. Promptly and Equitably Settled. Agents in all Princip.-. 1 Country Towns.
w; n DROWN. General Manacrpr
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Cash Orders (Amalgamated), Ltd. (Syd.)
Not , Dividends Towards De-
Sept., Profit. Pref. Ord. Reserves, fieit.
£ £ £ £
Goodwill and preliminary exes. .. 8,096
1927.. 699 10 p.c. 8 p.c. = 644 35 8,061
Added intangibles, £7547 .. .. 15,605
Forfeited share reserve, £406 .. 15,202
1928.. 5,690 10 p.c. 8 p.c. = 3,647 2,043 13,159
1929.. 8,365 10 „ 8 „ „ 8,327 38 13,121
Written off, £165 .. .. .. 12,956
Loss.
1930.. 38,980 Nil Nil
June,
1931*. 8,901 Nil Nil
Profit.
1932.. 2,504 Nil Nil
Investments written down, £13,552.. 71,885
Reserves.
Capital written off, £74,289 .. 2,404
1933.. 5,795 374 p.c. Nil 4,660 1,135 3,539
1934.. 16,799 7j „ 7i p.c. = 8,522 8,277 11,816
1935.. 23,046 10 „124 ~,, 18,129 4,917 16,733
1936.. 40,823 10 „15 „ ~29,334 11,489 28,222
Added goodwill, £2OOO .. •• 26,222
1937.. 79,076 10 p.c. 15 p.c. =55,128 23,948 50,170
‘Nine months.
The market prices the ords., fully paid
to 125., at 18s. 4d. and the pound prefs,
at 235. 3d. as against 275. 3d. and 30s.
lOd. respectively a year ago. At 18s. 4d.
the ords. return 9.8 p.c. on a 15 p.c.
div. basis, or 6.5 p.c. on a 10 p.c. distri-
bution. The prefs.—there are 150,000
of them in an issued capital of £526,177 —
carry a fixed cumulative 10 p.c., and
have priority as to capital and divi-
dend ; at 235. 3d. they yield 8.6 p.c., and
their full annual requirements were more
than five times covered by last year’s net
earnings. The net tangible cover is £3
15s. lOd. prefs. and 13s. 7d. ords.
The market’s drastic revision of its
estimate of the value of the co.’s scrip is
due partly to the psychological reaction
to international developments and partly
to uncertainty concerning the future of
this class of business. Lately conditions
have been almost ideal for cash-order
cos. ; plenty of money about, thanks
largely to a bigger cheque for exports,
unemployment at a comparatively low
level, and wages on the up-grade. Partly
because of all this, the field has become
rather crowded, which leaves less room
for the selection of risks, and there is
the possibility that competition—it is
likely to get a keener edge on it as cir-
cumstances become less propitious—will
lead to a reduction in the present high
rate of interest charged for this type of
credit, and to the loss, partly or wholly,
of juicy pickings by way of discounts
from retailers. Also, there is the ever-
green question of bad debts, which in-
volves the major Item among the assets,
and always becomes more troublesome
as conditions grow less favorable
Furthermore, the co.’s reserves are none
too stout a prop for capital, and the
early history of the business is not in-
spiring. What previously had been called
profit, and a lot more besides, was swal-
lowed by bad debts in 1930, and Bs. per
share (£74,289) was lopped off capital in
1932. However, there were changes in
the control, and the new management
has pursued a vigorous policy of expan-
sion. ; •
A year ago the chairman said accounts
on which no payments were made for
four months had been entirely written
off, and those on which nothing had
been received for two months were
written down 50 p.c. In addition a round
sum was provided against the balance
of debtors, as well as something for con-
tingencies. While debtors’ balances, etc.,
continue to be treated on this basis, the
danger of the profit claimed not being
realised is small.
During the last term six new branches
were opened, making 19 in N. S. Wales,
where the furniture business of H. E.
Moore was bought, £2OOO being paid for
goodwill. There are also five branches
in Queensland, and the Vic. subsidiary,
with offices in Bourke-street, Mel-
bourne, and at Footscray, extended its
business to Geelong. All branches earned
a profit, the aggregate turnover being
£1,599,686, up £674,499. Capital in-
vested in loans to customers appears to
have been turned over about four times
during the year.
Gross earnings sprang £104,223, reach-
ing £241,795. Exes. (£162,719) took
£65,970 of the increase, leaving the net
result £38,253 better at £79,076, or
enough to pay the pref. div. and show
22.3 p.c. on average ord. capital. The
div. was kept at 15 p.c. On capital as it
now stands the pref. div. and 15 p.c.
to the ords. will call for £71,426, or
£7650 less profit than was claimed last
term.
In August, 1936, 208,987 new 12s. ords.
were issued at par, and in February last
100,000 £1 10 p.c. cum. prefs. were also
put out at par. That made issued capital
£526,177 in 150,000 prefs. and 626,961
ords. ; there was £7338 of calls outstand-
ing when the books closed. The £233,780
of fresh capital gathered was nearly all
advanced to clients, as the following table
shows:
1931. 1935. 1936. 1937.
Paid capital.. £171,766 £176.874 £285,059 £518,839-
Liabilities . . 10,500 52,248 125,813 229,392
Freehold
Equipment . . 3,167 8,-151 11,108 14,133
Stock ..... 1.073 3,142 3,049 9,752
Investments . . 33,295 24,743 56,443 82,493
Rook debts .. 82,563 216,540 379,250 601,862
Csish, etc. . . 1,331 1,504- 3,221 6,769
Book debts (up £222,612) include £55,194
advanced to subsidiaries. Liabilities con-
sist of £63,358 (up £1947) coming to the
bank, £90,718 (up £26,317) to sundry
creditors and an unpaid balance of
£75,316 on the purchase of a freehold
at the corner of George and Market
streets, Sydney. The board’s intentions
in connection with this property (there
is no building on it at the moment) have
not yet been announced.
Pitt, Son and Badgery, Ltd. (Sydney)
Reserves
Transferred
June, Profit. Dividends. to Capital. Reserves.
£ £. £ £
1927.. 44,141 10 p.c: = 24,000 15,000 85,774
1928.. 49,153 10 „ „ 25,500 20,000 89,427
1929.. 57,453 10 „ „ 27,500 15,000 104,380
To Reserves.
1930.. 24,909 71 „ „ 21,740, 3,169 107,549
1931.. 23,412 71,/ „ 21,745 1,667 109,216
1932.. 22,689 71 „ „ 21,750 939 110,155
1933.. 22,551 7| „ „ 21,750 801 110,956
1934.. 34,262 7.',,, „ 21,750 12,512 123,468
1935.. 23,218 7i„V-„ 21,750 , 1,468 124,936
1936. . 29.381 •10 „ „ 29.000 , . 3,81 125,317
Contingencies' reserve disclosed,
' £36.716 162,033
1937. . 42,674 121 p.c.- 36,250 ( 9 494 164 457
Pension fu'nd, £4OOO J ’
This co., which is in the wool- and
produce-broking and stock-and-station-
agency business in N. S. Wales, has been
a. money-spinner. For the 22 years to
the close of accounts in 1929, divs. aver-
aged 10y p.c., sugared with £235,000 of
bonus scrip, which lifted paid capital to
£290,000, at which figure it has remained.
With the big break in markets, etc., the
bestowal of gifts ceased, and the div. was
lowered to 1\ p.c.; it was lifted to 10 p.c.
again in 1936, and a 2\ p.c. bonus was
added, making 12% p.c. in all for the
last term. Of recent years, however,
handling and storage charges have been
reduced, the co. now rebates 20 p.c. of
the commission charged for sale of wool,
costs are on the up-grade, war and talk
of more wars are in the air, and the
future is uncertain. For these and other
reasons, an early resumption of gift-giv-
ing on the pre-depression scale (it was
then an annual event) seems unlikely. The
lift in last year’s distribution suggests that
the board may prefer to reward those on
the register in a way that has less sting
in its tail.
The spring in last year’s turnover was
due to a bigger physical volume of sales
at better prices. The co. does not
broadcast the quantity of wool and live-
stock put under the hammer, but the
clip for the State was heavier, and it
fetched £26,347,157, or £5,415,946. more
than for the previous year. Sheep and
lambs sold at highly satisfactory figures,
too, while fat cattle fetched profitable
prices, and business in the produce de-
partment was well maintained. After
setting aside £3OOO (down £5000) for
taxation, sending £3167 to the provident
fund and handing the staff a bonus of
5 p.c. on their salaries, the net result of
the year’s trading was £13,293 better at
£42,674, or 14.7 p.c. on capital as against
10.1, 8, 11.8, 7.7, 7.8, 8, 8.4 and 20.9 p.c.
back to 1929. The £42,674 was made up
of profit from trading £31,872 (up
£12,209), interest on fixed deposits £2830
(down £2358) and interest on Consols
£7972 (up £3442). The amounts on fixed
deposit and invested in Consols were
unchanged at £IOO,OOO and £200,000 re-
spectively, and the special Federal tax
on income from property was abolished
early in the term. A year ago Consols
appeared at face value; they now figure
at or under market value, which sug-
gests that there may be a bit more wheat
in the ear than the eye can see. The dis-
closure of a contingencies reserve of
£36,716 may have some connection with
the contraction of £56,688 in the amount
coming to sundry creditors.
Here is the position so far as balance-
sheet figures show it:
1925. 1935. 1936. 1937.
Paid capital. . £200,000 £296,000 £290,000 £290,000
Overdraft .. 325.057 43,490 04,304
felmdry creditors 34,632 69,030 132,087 t 0,399
Freeholds, etc. 149.286 154,240 153,769 154,174
Advances, etc. 378,186 90,219 163,250 161,667
Liquid assets 141,250 260,382 300,000 300.2.,6
The year’s improvement in the more or
less liquid surplus (£331,200) was £43,527,
due mainly to disclosure of the contin-
gency reserve. The co. could return
half or more of its capital without any
apparent danger of hamstringing the
business financially or seriously impairing
its earning capacity.
Prospects for the current season are
favorable. The market prices the pound
shares at 48s. as against 425. a year ago.
At the higher figure the return is 5.5 p.c.
on a 12y p.c. div. basis. Visibly the cover
is 31s. 4d. in net tangibles.
Cascade Brewery Cos., Ltd. (Hobart)
To Re — Re—
June, Profit. Dividends; serves. serves.
■1927.. 11,078 10 p.c. = 15,000 112,859
Taken from reserves, £9535 . . 103,324
1928.. 6,166 Nil 6,166 109,490
1929.. 12,382 Nil f Q r , s , 110 072
Written off, £2BOO . . I 9 ’° B2 119,072
Written off shares in other cos.,
£16,700 102,372
1930.. 7,908 = 5,000 2,908 105,280
Written off shares in other cos.,
£IO,OOO .. 95,280
1931.. 13,016 31 p.c. = 7,500 5,516 100,796
Written off shares in other cos.,
£7162; reduction in general
reserve, £4603 .. .. •• 96,193
1932.. 12,797 5 p.c. = 10,000 2,797 98,990
Unexplained reductions, £2OOO .. 96,990
1933.. 14,655 51 p.c. = 11,000 3,655 100,645
Written off shares in other cos.,
£SOOO .. 95,645
1934.. 17,607 7 p.c. = 14,000 3,607 99,252
Bonus equalisation reserve, £4020.. 103,272
1935.. 18,849 8 p.c. = 16,000 2,849 106,121
1936.. 25,788 10 „ „ 20,000 5,788 111,909
1937.. 29,297 111 ~ „ 22,500 7 r , q7 ni710( ;
Written off, £I6OO. j ’ ’
Out of the doldrums, and with the
economic barometer set fair, this co. con-
tinues to gather way undes strong trade-
winds. It linked up with J. Boag and
Son in 1922, when the pair passed their
beer-making plants to a subsidiary,
Tasmania Breweries Pty., for £200,000
in scrip, one half 8 p.c. cum. prefs. and
the other half ords. Cascade’s whack
was 52,162 prefs. and 50,000 ords., to-
gether £63,000 in excess of the book
value of tangible assets transferred.
Since the merger £57,462 has been written
off the book value of shareholdings.
For the half-dozen years to the close
of accounts in 1927, divs. averaged 10.8
p.c. p.a. Shareholders went hungry for
the next two years, because the operat-
ing co. ceased to contribute to the pool,
owing to price-cutting, following installa-
tion of anew Nathan brewing plant. The
proprietary began to contribute again in
1934, when it paid its first pref. div. for
seven years. Meanwhile, Cascade was
left with returns from its hotel proper-
ties, etc., and the cider- and cordial-
making section of the business. Owing
to “arrangements made with some of
the mainland breweries” and a steady
increase in the consumption of beer, the
operating co. has been able to clear its
arrears of pref. divs. and, for the last
couple of years, pay the ords. an un-
stated amount, too —the curtain is kept
drawn over its figures.
During the 12 months covered by the
latest accounts, there was a steady in-
crease in the proprietary’s local and inter-
state sales. The Speck’s beer consump-
tion, which was 7.2 gallons per head in
1924-25, fell to 5.2 gallons in 1932-33,
and rose to 7.2 gallons again in 1935-36 ;
the figures to June 30 last are not yet
available. Cascade made its best show-
ing since the merger. Gross earnings
(£57,438) were up £3474. Exes. (£29,776)
were £669 lighter, thanks to abolition of
the special Federal tax on income from
property. Including £1635 dropped from
somewhere into the bonus equalisation
reserve (now £7567), the net result
(£29,297, up £3509) was equal to 14.6
p.c. on capital, compared with 12.8, 9.4,
8.8, 7.3 and 6.3 p.c. back to 1932. A
(“Wild Cat” continued on page 24.)


A RECORD YEAR ... AND A WORLD’S
RECORD IN LIFE ASSURANCE
The Australasian Catholic Assurance Co. established what is
believed to be a world’s record by paying bonuses out of profits
earned in its tenth year. It is purely an Australian office, and 90 p.c.
of the profits earned are set aside for policy-holders’ bonuses.
"The Bulletin,” having analysed the accounts from
the inception of the institution, recently remarked:
“The office has long since earned both the confidence
of the assuring public and the respect of bigger col-
leagues. With a share capital of only £14,610, manag-
ing director E. J. Mooney set the business on its feet
in 1921, and it is testimony to his businesslike
command that within ten years of inception bonuses
commenced to flow from surpluses well earned. These
are now at the satisfactory rate of 525. 6d. p.c. on O.D.
whole-of-life and 355. p.c. on endowments. Policy-
holders* interests are well looked after.**
Accounts for the year to June 30, 1937, are now
being compiled, and they will disclose the most
satisfactory year in the history of the A.C.A.
A surplus of over
£150,000
has been shown, and the total assets of the
company now exceed
£1,000,000
The actuary is now making his investigation in
respect of the year to June 30, 1937. Bonus rates
will at least be maintained, and may be increased.
Interest earnings in relation to funds, one of the
A.C.A.’s chief sources of bonuses to policy-holders,
at £4/9/- per cent, net show a large increase when com-
pared with the 1936 figure of over £4/4/- per cent,
net on the mean Life Fund. A wide margin for
bonuses over the assumed rate of £3/10/- per cent,
is assured.
IE
3ET2
3E
As
—■•■•»•
'
Wmm
:11~ „-; l£3^itl3fc,
ISIS
BS
~■■ ■ •■■
3513 C
fe-aL
■sspr
Jr .*-
. ~ -w;" 2?E~rix * ~ -xt , * , raap«
■
■~
I m t*
sr
• - -, -
SELjks^xs.
'’• ".EX££^ KR * S '-
|L&; - - ,
Jt~£:
gl
?»*<.»
m
2e
<c »i
Me i
3=arn:-' 'g •w&rxzzmrTgarx- it.- u~x
«aK.JXti-wi=_SX£EE_ EaL-JElffe-- i^feik;
AUSTRALASIAN CATHOLIC ASSURANCE CO. LTD.
Head Office:
A.C.A. BUILDING, 66 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Branch Offices:
VICTORIA:
A.C.A. Building, 118-126 Queen Street, Melbourne.
C. A. Adams, Resident Secretary.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
1 3 Hindley Street, Adelaide.
F. C. Lock, Resident Secretary.
QUEENSLAND:
A.C.A. Building, 2 70-2 72 Queen Street, Brisbane.
M. J. Hogan, Resident Secretary.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA:
Warwick House, St. George’s Terrace, Perth.
B. Murphy, Resident Secretary.
THOMAS J. PURCELL, Esq.
Directors:
EDWARD J. MOONEY, Esq., Chairman
PATRICK J. RYAN, Esq., J.P.
DESMOND J. MOONEY, Esq.


The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Company, Limited
Castlereagh Street and Martin Place,
SYDNEY.
Founded 1886.
The M.L.C. has money to lend on
first-class securities at lowest current
rates of interest.
APPLICATIONS INVITED.
ASSETS EXCEED £25,000,000
ANNUAL INCOME EXCEEDS
£3,500,000
Arthur Eedy, C.8.E.,
Managing Director.
W. J. Bloomfield. 8.A., LL.B.,
Joint Managing Director.
MINERAL DEVELOPMENTS
(FIJI), LTD.
Assayers, Mine Managers and Geologists:
Mining properties reported upon.
Diamond Drilling Contracts Undertaken.
’Phones: 8W5260. 19 O’Connell Street,
84439. JVDNEY.
ADAMS' (TATTERSALL'S) HOTEL
269 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 484 GEORGE STREET.
Rooms, G/- and 8/- per day; Breakfast, Table d’Hote or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms. Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE PUBLIC DINING ROOMS.
Lunch from 12 noon (Sunday, 12.45 p.m.), Din ner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday, 5.45 p.m.).
Tables or Seats may be reserved by ’Phone, M 4601.
The LUDOWICI ALL-STEEL SPLIT PULLEY
ĵ
Possesses much greater
STRENGTH RIGIDITY
ACCURACY LIGHTNESS
ACCESSIBILITY
J. C. Ludowici & Son Ltd
POWER TRANSMISSION ENGINEERS
117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY, 20-26 QUEEN’S BRIDGE ST., STH. MELBOURNE
INVENTORS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents. —Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 422
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Mclb.). —Advt.
* * * *
AUSTRALASIAN timborlands and plantation
valuation surveys, milling plants, certification of
shipments. L. MACINTOSH ELLIS, B.Sc. (late
Director State Forest Service, New Zealand), Consult-
ing Forest Engineer, 8 Bond Street, Sydney.—Advt.
* * * *•
FERRODOR (Anti-corrosive). PAINT has saved
many thousands of pounds in repairs and repaintings.
For all wooden, steel or iron structures. Will not
blister or crack. Sole Agents, William Adams and
Company, Ltd., 175 Clarence Street, Sydney.—Advt.
* * * *
RARE MINERALS AND METALS—Ask O. T.
LEMPR1ERE & CO. PTY., LTD., Collins House,
Melbourne, and Bowden Street, Alexandria, Sydney,
for advice regarding value and marketing of rare
minerals and metals.—Advt.
Public Notice.
CORESTRY BONDS—I pay up to £5 more
D per bond than other buyers for N.Z. Per-
petual Forests Bonds.—R. F. CORMACK, 440
Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
SEND YOUR
ENQUIRIES FOR
MINING MACHINERY
STAMP BATTERIES
CONCENTRATORS
MAGNETIC SEPARATORS
AMALGAMATING TABLES
WATER FILTERS
EVERLASTING VALVES
ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT
MOTORS AND SWITCHGEAR
GARBAGE DESTRUCTORS
ALL CLASSES OF TOOLS.
GUTHRIDGE Pty. Limited,
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
Sydney.
3d. bonus (1£ p.c.) was sent out with the
10 p.c. div., making p.c. for the
year. The final div. was at the rate of
11 p.c. p.a.
The holding co.’s balance-sheet figures
compare as follows:
1931. 1935. 1936. 1937.
Paid capital. . £200,000 £200,000 £ 200,000 £200,000
Mortgages and
deposits .. 129,124 121,129 118,234 115,607
Other liabilities 10,976 2,433 2,854 2,477
Hotels, etc... 253,847 254,246 253,794 260,881
Plant, etc. . . 103,572 88,228 89,081 87,885
Stock . . . . 7.709 7,339 7,171 8,839
Book debts, etc. 24,801 18,296 22,454 16,850
Cash, etc. . . 312 10,340 14,171 14,513
Shares other cos. 70,809 65,196 64,646 64,646
In January next £IOO,OOO of debentures
mature, and the board is making arrange-
ments for their redemption ; in what way
is not stated. Leaving the debentures and
shares in other cos. out of the reckon-
ing, more or less liquids exceeded the
floating debt by £24,852 when the books
closed.
To cope with expanding business, the
operating co. is installing more plant;
no hint is given as to whether those on
the register of this holding co. are likely
to be asked for more. At 425. 9d. (38s.
9d. a year ago), the 21s. shares paid to
20s. return 5.2 p.c. on an 11| p.c. div.
basis. The net tangible cover is 31s. Bd.,
subject to any adjustment in respect of
the subsidiary’s accounts.
Satupulo, N.L.
Buried timber, heavy sands and a hard
clay bottom created early dredging diffi-
culties for this Takuapa (Siam) producer,
and it was not till 1934 that the div. list
was reached, all pref. arrears then being
cleared. Still, despite output control,
which fell less heavily on Siam than
Malayan producers, the co. has never
balanced on the wrong side. The ords..
have had 3s. a share in each of the last
three years, and, with metal prices up
and a lift in the latest Siamese domestic
quota to 70 p.c. of assessment, the im-
mediate outlook is the brightest yet. For
the first four months of the current term
recoveries have averaged I.llb. t. 0., the
dredge having turned over 361,000 c.y.
for 389 tons. The co. is applying for,
and is confident of obtaining, an in-
creased assessment, in which case anew
250,000-c.y.-monthly bucket dredge is
mooted. There is about 50,000,000 c.y.
of 8.70 z. wash measured up on the
present leases.
Of last term’s output of 481.6 tons
t. 0., 107.8 tons represented production
against the current term, estimated profit
on which has been carried forward in
suspense:
1935. 1936. 1937.
Cubic yards dug.. 1,664,000 1,329,000 1,230,000
T. 0.. tons . . 365.7 411.8 481.6
Av. per c.y., lb. .. 0.49 0.69 0.87
Assay, p.c. . . 73.8 74.1 ■—
All-in costs, c.y. 3.43 and. 5.2 and. 4.54 and.
Net ore real’n, ton £147/12/8 £l4O/17/9 £149/1/7
Thanks to better tin prices, richer ground
and a reduction in costs, the net amount
available for distribution lifted £15,982
to £36,943:
, Dividends \
, —Pei' Shares
Revenue. Exes.* Surplus. Pref. Ord. Amt.
1935. . £54,220 £26,372 £27.848 4/- 3/- £24,420
1 55,269 34,328 20,941 6/- 3/- 25,470
ljao.. I rp o SUS p ense accounts, £3200.
IQ „ 7 i 64,413 27,470 36,943 5/- 3/- 24,945
'' (Written off development account, £9OOO.
* Including depreciation—
£232s, 1935; £5074, 1936; £3279, 1937.
To the prefs. ss. per share was handed,
and 3s. per share to the ords., and of
the balance £9OOO was written off de-
velopment account, reducing it to
£13,293.
The co. is still involved in litigation
with the vendor of its original property
over expenses incurred incidental to the
transfer of the leases. Following an
appeal to the Supreme Court, Satupulo’s
liability in this connection was assessed
at £1202. The Lower Court, however,
has given a judgment for £15,000
stg., the amount of its original ruling. An-
other appeal has been lodged, and there
the matter stands for the present.
At last balance more or less liquids
aggregated £52,354, and outside indebted-
ness, excluding the matter now before
the Court, £9ll. Paid capital is £159,300
in £1 shares —10,500 10 p.c. cum. par
prefs. and 148,800 ords., which the
market values at 355. 6d.
Mt. Paris Tin, formed early in 1935
to work an extensive sluicing area at
Branxholm (Tas.), has run into trouble,
three greisen masses south of the Pin-
nacle, the main greisen mass, having been
recently disclosed. The original bores,
from which it was figured that 2,000,000
c.y. of 21b. sluicing material was avail-
able, are now said to have gone down
in narrow bands of aplite between the
greisen masses. So, instead of the antici-
pated terrace of aplite, the co. is now
faced with a straightout quarrying pro-
position of some 70ft. to 80ft. in width.
Reporting on the development, E. W.
Bonwick, who with F. Voss Smith and
Donald Fraser originally recommended
the proposition to the co., says a depth
of 50ft. should see the end of the greisen,
with an increasing proportion of aplite
as depth is attained. He adds that the
deposit is far too great and valuable to
be abandoned, since, with the massive
rock gone, there will be an enormous
quantity of profitable aplite available. To
deal with the greisen, which is expected
to average 0.15 p.c. tin, a modern 10-
head battery (13001 b. stamps), to treat
500 tons a week, is recommended at a
cost of £SOOO erected, together with a
new two-drill compressor, cost about
£ISOO. Mining and treatment costs to-
gether are not expected to exceed 4s. 6d.
a ton. On this basis, and with tin at
its present price (£257 in London last
week-end), the co. should be able to treat
the greisen at a small profit. The co.
says it has ample funds in hand to carry
out the work contemplated. Meanwhile,
shareholders can look forward to a long
dry period, exactly how long it is diffi-
cult to say at the moment. The market
prices the 55.-paid shares at Is. 6d. as
against 3s. 9d. a month or so ago.
* * * *
Bewick, Moreing and Cos. has under-
taken the mine managership of recon-
structed Rothsay (W.A.), which to dale
has been a source of much heartburn-
ing to shareholders. Following a report
on the mine by Victor Edquist, they are
asked to dip in their pockets for another
per share to enable an estimated
13,000 tons of Bdwt. stone between Nos.
1 and 2 levels to be got at—a five
months’ job expected to cost £BOOO-
- New pumping plant and air com-
pressors are also wanted. Old mine
assay plans of No. 2 level, at present
under water, show that two shoots of
ore have been driven on: one, assaying
9.2dwt. over 52in., for 109 ft., the other,
assaying 9.6dwt. over 42in., for 316 ft.
On the surface the ore-channel has been
traced for 3000 ft., the quartz occurring
in lenses that form almost one continu-
ous ore-body, and shallow workings
to the north indicate an extension of
ore in this direction. Above No. 1
level, which supplied most of the feed
for the old mill, about 3000 tons of
7jrdwt. ore remains. Treatment, ex-
pected to present no difficulty for the
new 2500-ton-monthly plant, will be by
crushing and fine-grinding, free gold
being recovered over corduroy strakes,
the gold-copper concentrate being
handled by flotation. How the mine will
behave at depth has yet to be proved.
Three of four drill-holes have struck
good values over payable widths between
280 ft. and 450 ft. A lot more ore yet
needs to be opened up. Present supplies
would keep the mill going barely six
months.
* * * *
Lake View’s prospects look promising.
Ore reserves are now nearly six years
ahead of the mill, and, as a result of
courageous development at depth, finds
that are bound to add considerably to the
intrinsic value of the property have been
made during the past year in the Associ-
ated, Lake View and Chaffers blocks.
Every month the co. treats approximately
50,000 tons of ore and about a similar
quantity of residues for a return of
£IIO,OOO. Since the beginning of 1937, it
has produced nearly a million in Austra-
lian currency. Mine profits average
£45,000 monthly. The annual report will
be issued in October, and shareholders
will meet a week or two later.
* * * #
At Wiluna (W.A.), where the main
shaft has been deepened a further 200 ft.
to 2000 ft., the most interesting develop-
ment last month was the stabbing of
6ft. of ore assaying B.9dwt. per ton by a
borehole below No. 16 level in the No. 2
west lode channel. Driving in other parts
of the property at 1800 ft., 1000 ft. and
405 ft. levels exposed low-grade ore.
* * * *
Golden West and Yellowdine Options,
two Westralian goldmining ventures
whose prospects at flotation and after
were lauded to the sky, now find
it difficult to get anyone to sing their
praises. Golden West, having got the
last penny from dejected shareholders,
has decided to wind up. Yellowdine
Options’ shareholders meet in Perth
next month to decide what they will do.
Three of the four directors have resigned.
The remaining one suggests (1) raising
sufficient to pay for the plant and further
open up the mine by two Id. calls ; (2)
pay for the plant out of the proceeds of
one Id. call and let the battery for public
crushing. Milling results to date are not
promising.
* * * t.
Westralia Renown, after contending
with one demned thing after another, in-
cluding defects of plant, shortage of
water, and lower yields than promised, is
attempting a second reconstruction. The
first reconstruction, early in 1936, real-
ised £20,000, less heavy cost of under-
writing ; creditors got a large slice of the
net balance. Another lot of creditors is
now anxious to see fresh capital sub-
scribed ; prospects of it being obtained
are not over-encouraging.
* * * *
Yellowdine and Comet, the most pro-
ductive of De Bernales’s Westralian golden
group, continue to do well. Since the
former started crushing in May, 1936,
approximately £350,000 has been banked.
Already £140,000 has been distributed
among the various cos. interested in the
venture. Comet is yielding about £IO,OOO
a month, and about two-thirds of that
amount is profit. The mine was ac-
quired from prospectors last year for
£40,000, after £20,000 had been extracted
from shallow ground. Since then the
workings have been deepened, a fair
quantity of rich ore has been exposed,
and £30,000 has been taken out.
$ * * *
Gold Mines of Kalgoorlie’s decision to
throw in its option on the Mt. Charlotte
at the north end of Hannans golden belt
(W.A.) occasioned some surprise at Kal-
goorlie, particularly as the experts’ report
on the property was said to be favor-
able. Disturbed world conditions are
alleged to be the main reason for the co.’s
refusal to go on. Another co. operating
in a big way on the Golden Mile is now
said to be nibbling at the venture.
* * * *
Differences of opinion regarding de-
velopmental policy are said to exist again
among directors of London-controlled
Edjudina Consolidated (W.A.). Similar
differences occurred early in the year,
when three members of the board pulled
out and two, one of whom was appointed
chairman, stepped in. Recently the man-
ager estimated that the chances of the
co.’s properties being turned to profitable
account were promising ; but that is said
at some time or other about most ven-
tures. It is the mill that decides.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
S.M. and D.F.: A speculation; if you can-
not afford to lose, keep out... .L.P.G.H.: Write
“Financial Times,” Lawrence-lane, Cheapside,
London, E.C.2.... J.W.W.: (1) As share sales-
men the co. is naturally interested in its own
portfolio. (2) Not recommended at present
price. (3) The prefs. appear to be well worth
present price H.H.M.: For British Tobacco
and Carraras see B. 13/1 /’37 and B. 25/8/’37
respectively. Godfrey Phillips does not publish
accounts M.U.C.: (1) There will be a dif-
ference of about 3s. 4d..between the old and
new shares. Allowing for this and brokerage,
the rights are worth around 31s. with the old
shares at 77s. The return from the rights at
31s. is a shade over 4 p.c. p.a. on a 12| p.c.
div. basis. (2) Don’t know of any at the
moment M.R.: It puts the cart before the
horse. The economic basis of society is the
exchange of goods and services.
ASBESTOS.
Thousands of Tons Used in Australia.
Asbestos is probably the most wonderful and
fascinating of all minerals. It is usually found
in serpentine rock, the Asbestos Fibre appear-
ing in veins varying from l-16in. up to a couple,
of inches in width. Although there is practi-
cally no demand for fibre l-16in., fibre up to
fin. in length containing a proportion of short
fibres is extensively used in Australia for the
manufacture of Asbestos Cement Sheets, Asbes-
tos Cement Roofing, Asbestos Cement Pipes,
Asbestos Laggings, etc. Many thousands of tons
of Asbestos, costing on the average about £2O
per ton, are imported into Australia annually
for such purposes.
A regular market exists abroad for Asbestos
Fibre |in. and longer for weaving Asbestos
Cloth, Asbestos Brake Lining and the like.
The type of Asbestos mostly in demand is
C'nrysotile, which lies in dense veins in the
serpentine rock, but when opened out readily
divides into silky strands of unusual tensile
strength.
The true Asbestos must not be confused with
Horneblende, as whilst in appearance both
materials are somewhat similar, the true
Asbestos will withstand abrasive action whereas
Horneblende readily disintegrates under such
treatment.
Deposits of Chrysotile Asbestos have been
worked in blew South Wales at Barraba and
Baryulgil and in Tasmania, but the fibre in such
deposits was too brittle to stand the necessary
milling and therefore had to be abandoned.
Excellent fibre of the Chrysotile variety
appears in various parts of the north-western
area of. Western Australia, but deposits of
sufficient size so far have not been discovered
to justify the working of same on an extensive
scale. The discovery of an extensive deposit
of Chrysotile Asbestos in Australia with a con-
tent of about 5 p.c. of Asbestos Fibre should
give employment to many Australians.
Prospectors and others coming in contact
with deposits of Chrysotile Asbestos should
communicate with, and at the same time send
samples to, James Hardie and Co. Pty., Ltd.,
Asbestos House, York and Barrack Streets,
Sydney, and at Melbourne, Brisbane and Perth.


TOg-SEeURtTy
YOUR INVESTMENT PROBLEM
It’s solved easily and safely by a purchase of FIRST
AUSTRALIAN UNIT TRUST CERTIFICATES. These
spread your money over 20 leading “listed” securities. The
resulting “spread” smoothes out wide share fluctuations.
Custodian Trustees for investors: Union Insurance Society of
Canton, Ltd.
Write for Booklet No. 1 to the Managers «•
AUSTRALIAN FIXED TRUSTS PTY., LTD.,
8-14 Bond Street, Sydney.
Box 4028 V.V., G.P.O.
Telephone: 85294.
SMOKE-OH!
“A retired chemist, he is now the champion
bowler of his club.” — “Age.”
Natural enough, in view of his long
practice at rolling the pills.
*l* *l*
“Realising that other people were there to
see the sights, he took his wife out.”
— Woman’s paper.
It might have been better put.
4* 4> 4* 4<
“Sydney is the most glorious city in the
Empire,” says a city councillor.
Property-owners, however, consider it
over-rated.
4* 4* •b 4*
“Determined to commit suicide, he destroyed
his clothes.”— “D.T.”
Seeing that he was going to lose his
breath he had no further use for his
pants.
4* 4* 4* 4 1
“One wealthy American has a telephone fitted
to the side of his bath.” — “Sun.”
Well, hasn’t he got to wring the face-
cloth after he’s finished?
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Bullets were flying in the street, so we ran
into a hotel.”— “D.T.”
They were lead into it, so to speak.
Many of Sydney’s park
statues, now being over-
hauled, would be better
hauled over.
4*
“There are some pens that
are full of bitterness.”
—“S. M. Herald.”
Particularly if the
warders are a bit cranky.
A Vic. Assembly nomination-paper:
WILLIAMSTOWN.
Lemmon, John, Melbourne-road, North
Williamstown, Statesman.
As a Statesman he’s a All right,
have it your own way!
.;. .;. .;.
“Accused, who had been employed there tem-
porarily as a watchman, was alleged to have
stolen several silk nightdresses.”
Watchman, what of the nighties?
•b •b
“Ten minutes’ wrestling daily is the ideal
way to keep fit,” says a physical-culture expert.
A grapple a day keeps the doctor away.
•b -b >1- b
“A water-conservation expert with a world-
wide reputation, he spends the greater part of
his life far from the haunts of civilisation.”
— “Argus.”
Life, to him, must be just one dammed
thing after another.
“Brisbane brewery stay-in strikers amused
themselves by practising high-jumping.”
—“Sunday Sun.”
They can’t seem to get away from
hops even while on strike.
*2* ***
“A railway guard who used to study while
on long-distance trips has passed his law
exams.” —News item.
Still, he has broken the regulations of
his department by getting on while the
train was in motion.
•J* *l*
Lid's for All.
“Chimney-sweeps in Germany favor top-
hats.”—News item.
Probably because they earn their living
on the tiles.
Anyhow, everyone should wear a hat
according to his walk in life. For in-
stance, cabbage-tree hats for greengrocers,
crash straw for motorists, bearskins for
nudists, straw-bashers for gangsters and
soft hats for politicians. Then we might
have poke-bonnets for pig-dealers and
iron casques for publicans.
Dougal.
4* 4*
“The Coolart estate at Balnarring (Vic.) has
been sold. The late Mr. F. S. G—- — sired
several leading racehorses, including the
thoroughbred stallion Bobadil, on the property.”
— Melb. “Sun News-Pictorial.”
Stout fella!
•b br 4*
Disservice Department.
(1) What is your view of Epsom pros-
pects ? (2) Metrop. ditto ? —OOOU.
(1) Though there is a great deal of
Talking about Gold Rod he Might Not
make Tuckiar for his Gay Blonde. His
Golden Chance might be lost in the
Evening Mist. Like Falstaff, appeal to
the King’s Head with Heroic Faith.
(2) If Hua anxious to stay on the Sil-
ver Standard and have a Gay Knight
after taking Genet-out, Buzalong and see
Old Rowley, the Fireman. Pardon our
Black Laughter.
2 Cups.
“Come on, Joe, cant y ’ take a joke?”
“Most fish,” says a naturalist, “travel in
schools.”
So that’s why they have fisheries in-
spectors !
Customs and Inhabitants of Our
Great Outback.
The fencing contractor shares with the
blowfly and the crow the honor of being
.the most übiquitous of Australia’s out-
back inhabitants. Over rolling grassy
prairies and down inaccessible gullies he
can be seen in all weathers sitting on top
of his telescopic jinker, impatiently
urging along the half-dozen sturdy
camels that draw it, so anxious is he to
get to the nearest sheep-station, cattle-
ranch or mulga-farm to pursue his life’s
work of putting up fences.
To those ignorant of this important
phase of rural activity a brief outline of
the varied types of fence used may be of
interest.
Our fauna is so widely varied that it
is obvious one fence wouldn’t keep every
animal and insect either in or out. The
fence that would baulk a bull, a buffalo
or a crocodile, for instance, would
patently be no bar to a tick, a thrip, a
botfly or aphis. For these vermin a fine
gauze wire fence is erected—or, rather,
two fences, one being put against the
other in such a way that the holes of both
are practically blocked up, thus tricking
any insects which hope to squeeze
through. The tops are also bent back at
an acute angle, so that insects endeavor-
ing to climb over the top overbalance
and fall off.
The rabbit fence is made of wire-net-
ting of just sufficient gauge to allow
Bunny’s head (with flattened ears) to get
through ; when he tries to withdraw it
his ears, which immediately spring to the
alert position, hold him fast. Rabbit
now forms the staple diet of all farm
and station employees (the catch-cry
“Stewed rabbos for the shearers! ” which
voiced the demand of rural workers for
a change from the monotonous diet of
quail on toast and scrambled eggs, once
wrecked a Government). The fence dis-
penses with rabbit-traps.
For foxes, bandicoots, bunyips, wom-
bats, heifers, sheep and other animals
which lope along close to the ground, a
three-strand wire fence is sufficient. For
larger animals, such as horses and cattle,
a fence about ten, feet high is necessary,
and where buffaloes are prevalent this
has to be strengthened with concrete
rails. For kangaroo-proof fences, par-
ticularly in country where “boomers”
abound, telegraph poles are used as posts
and sometimes as many as 30 wires are
needed.
Snake fences are also put down. These
consist of a multitude of vari-toned wires
which, when twanged, give forth an in-
harmonious sound; this is anathema to
snakes, which, as everyone knows, are
passionately fond of good music, and
the ophidians naturally turn away from
it in disgust. A snake-fence wire
twanger’s job is no sinecure on any big
run.
The necessity for the fencing contrac-
tor’s telescopic jinker will now readilv
be seen. Should he be carrying materials
to erect a snake-, vermin- or wombat-
proof fence he closes up his vehicle to
take the shorter posts. On the other
hand, should he get an order to instal
a “boomer-kangaroo” fence he will need
to extend his jinker to its fullest capacity
to take posts up to 60ft. in length. Some
contractors carry their own postholes
with them as well.
The modus operandi is simple. The
contractor (assuming he is not using his
own postholes) first puts his shear-legs
over the place selected for the corner
post and then brings his pile-driver into
action. Ground in which rabbits have
burrowed is selected where possible, as
it; is then only a matter of enlarging the
holes already made, or, if a warren is
struck, making it smaller. The contrac-
tor’s “pacer” then walks along the route
of the proposed fence, indicating by his
measured tread where the various holes
will be put.
As soon as all the holes are prepared
(if the posts are round, square holes
will be made, and vice versa, as, being
notoriously difficult to fit, it stands to
reason they should be equally difficult
to remove), the posts are then planed so
as to remove all splinters. The station
or farm owner invariably insists on this,
as, if the posts are left rough, horses or
cattle which use them for scratching
themselves on may pick up splinters.
High-velocity bullets are then fired at
close range through the posts where the
wires are to go through. This dispenses
with the services of an augerer and also
expedites the work. Each post is then
laid alongside its corresponding hole, and
the wires are then threaded through until
the whole length of fencing is connected.
Now commences the really ticklish
part of the work. Limbering up his
camel team, the contractor fastens the
long line of fencing to drag-chains with
strong lawyer-vines and urges his oonts
forward. As the straining beasts take the
weight the fence rises, the posts falling
into their allotted holes. As a check on
any too-precipitous move a tractor takes
the strain in the opposite direction. Care
must be taken to see that the camels
don’t move as the swivelled fireman’s ex-
tension ladder comes into play. This
portable contrivance is quickly swung
over each post, and the “hammerer”
bangs the post well home.
In order to save time in excavating it
out again when the post eventually rots,
earth is not filled into the hole after the
post is in position. The wires are then
strained, a retired police tug-of-warsman
being usually employed for this work.
Finally the posts are ducoed (ordinary
lead paints might prove injurious to any
cattle which might nibble them), and, in
the case of snake-proof fences, the wires
are tuned “out” by an ex-radio saxo-
phone player.
S. W. K.
A Safe Bet.
“Hurdlers are usually more nervous and
highly strung than horses only engaged in flat
racing,” says a trainer.
It’s natural, of course, for any nag that
leaps the sticks
To be jumpy ( that’s the instinct of the
hunter),
But, although while at the barrier he
trembles, bites and kicks
And proceds to demonstrate his temp’ra-
mental box of tricks,
He’ll be nowhere near as nervous as
the punter!
K.
“The Mould of Form.”
“Most of the successful present-day pugilists
dress as smartly as business executives.”
— “Courier-Mail.”
Unlike the old-time pug, whose clobber
used to be a riot
Of checks and stripes, to stun ’em at
the Rocks,
The boxer nowadays has pants that must,
perforce, be quiet ;
And it’s rarely he’ll indulge in violent
socks.
NIPPER.
Might?
A feeling of intense power pervaded
him. Visions of Hitlerine sway or a
Stalinic strut flashed through his throb-
bing brain.
The immense hall was with him to a
man —and woman. He could sway them
as he liked. For him no need of massed
loudspeakers or wild gesticulations. With
the faintest gesture he could make this
huge throng feel sad or gay. By a flick
of his little finger even, he could bend
them to his will.
He felt almost contempt for these
stupid pseudo-males and vacuous women
standing clapping in idiotic worship
before his shrine.
Then, bowing mechanically, the “hot”
dance-band leader put his saxophone
down and ran a handkerchief around his
clammy collar.
G. F. A.


WARNING
to Shareholders in
N.Z. FOREST PRODUCTS —~
CHAREHOLDERS are warned against
exchanging their shares in N.Z. Forest Products
Limited for shares in other companies, upon
representations that such offers of exchange are
authorised by us. We have not authorised any
person or company to make offers of any description
to our shareholders. For any advice or informa-
tion, shareholders are strongly recommended to
write to the Secretary, Auckland, or to consult the
nearest Branch Office of N.Z. PERPETUAL
FORESTS LTD.
N.Z. FOREST PRODUCTS LIMITED.
f \
vt/
When nuts are plentiful (and nuts
are the riches of the squirrel
world), the wise animal eats what
he needs. But, little by little, he
builds up a store of food against
the lean future.
This plan has stood the test of
many thousands of years. So,
why not act in like manner ?
From your earnings, put aside
something — however small —
but REGULARLY. Put that
regular something where it will be
safe but always quickly available.
Let the growing fund earn a
steady profit for you in interest.
Start a Savings Account, at once,
and you’ll feel happier — and
safer.
commonwefUTH
SflUMGS BfMH OF AUSTRALIA
Business.Rollery,Etc.
“Social” Government and Shares
Federal elections are now a little less
than a month away, and Mr. Curtin,
leader of the Opposition, has made a
platform speech in which nationalisa-
tion of banking and a 40-hour week loom
large. Hurroo for Casey and the mil-
lenium! Why Labor doggedly insists on
fiddling with that tender and touchy
nerve-spot noticeable where people’s
money is concerned is hard to under-
stand. A 40-hour week might make a
50-50 appeal; but Australia is one coun-
try where, through a circumstance in
which one of the world’s largest savings
banks closed its doors, political control
of monetary affairs is not wanted by the
majority of people who have more than
£25 to their name.
In Maoriland there is national control
of banking of a sort, and there is a 40-
hotlr week. The stock-and-share lists of
the various big cities in the Dominion
are an object-lesson in what has hap-
pened to investors’ confidence as a result.
The year 1936-37 was a record one so
far as M.L. export values were con-
cerned ; nevertheless it is hard to find one
section of Maoriland industry that is
valued higher in the share-lists than it
was 12 months ago. Sprinkled through
the list are a number of Commonwealth-
domiciled stocks ; it is difficult to find
one that hasn’t lifted strongly, even
allowing for the setback of the past few
weeks.
Milburn Cement shares in M.L. over
the past 12 months have kept around
435. 6d. ; Australian Cement scrip in
Melbourne has lifted from 28s. to 325. 6d.
Union Soap and Candle Co. (M.L.) ords.
have dropped from 31s. to 275., Kemp-
thorne, Prosser scrip is unchanged at
755., Consolidated Brick has fallen from
9s. 6d. to Bs. 3d., Beath and Co. from
235. 6d. to 225. 6d., D.I.C. (retailers)
from 16s. to 155., Crystal Ice from 455.
to 405., Donaghy’s Rope from 535. to
465. 3d., Mason, Struthers ords. from
17s. 6d. to 165., Northern Roller Milling
from 255. 6d. to 21s. 6d., Otago Daily
Times from 48s. to 465. 6d., Bruce
Woollen from 13s. 6d. to 11s. 6d.,
Kaipoi from 15s. lOd. to 14s. 6d., Wel-
lington Woollen from £6 ss. to £5 12s.
6d., Oamaru Woollen from 21s. to 195.,
Auckland Gas from 235. 2d. to 21s. 7d.,
Wellington Gas from 395. to 365., Devon-
port Steam from 21s. 9d. to 19s. 9d., and
Northern Steamship from ss. to 3s. lid.
If a comparison is made over two
years, the slip in most cases is even
greater. Statistics compiled relating to
quotations in respect of 75 Australian
cos. listed on Sydney ’Change show a lift
of 12 p.c. in the past 24 months, and
that doesn’t take into account the invis-
ible increase due to new share issues for
cash.
Undeveloped countries like Australia
and Maoriland have no use for 40-hour
weeks while regimented labor in “ex-
pansionist” nations have nothing like the
conditions offered in the Commonwealth
even under a.44-hour week. Maoriland
manufacturers and their workmen gener-
ally are in some distress following the
flood of imports that has come on the
heels of shorter hours and higher costs.
Even Soviet Russia works about 42 hours
in the seven-day week; France is in an
economic turmoil with 40 hours.
There has been endless blather about
giving the world a lead towards better
conditions, but in cases like this the
world won’t be led ; the countries must
act together or the leader simply beggars
himself. Even if a 40-hour week were
universal its success would depend on the
ability to do all necessary work in that
time. Perhaps the work could be done,
arid perhaps it couldn’t.
Under the artificial “standard of living”
that Mr. Curtin wants to wish on Aus-
tralia, struggling industries would suffer
most. There are quite a number of
enterprises in the Commonwealth to-day
that are barely paying their way. Alread/
some are facing trouble following Mr.
Reddaway’s boosted basic-wage award,
the fuff inflationary-effect of which isn’t
yet apparent.
Investors haven’t much use for Mr.
Curtin’s economics. Shares in two big
Australian banks have behaved as follows
in the market over the past five months:
Apr. 29. July 29. Sept. 22.
Bank of N.S.W. £3B/10/- £35/5/- £33/2/6
National (£5) .. £7/17/6 £7/10/- £7/1/-
With a policy of rational government,
leaving specialised matters of national
importance to specialists who understand
them, Mr. Curtin might easily have won
the support of a large body of the invest-
ing public. But instead he has dragged
forth platform skeletons that will lose
him thousands of votes. And meantime
Mr. Curtin is Old Man of the Sea so
far as the sharemarket is concerned.
Notes for Nothing
“Pioneer!.’ has waded through the
150,000 words in the Banking Commis-
sion’s report:
In the midst of our difficulties in 1931 the
Federal Treasurer asked to be given 18 million
pound-notes for nothing, and this amazing re-
quest actually passed the House of Representa-
tives! The commission on banking hasn’t ex-
plained the gravity of such a raid or proposed
some safeguard for the future; as it stands, the
absence of condemnation almost amounts to
approval.
The power of a Government with the sup-
port of the Senate is ultimately supreme when
a clash of opinion arises. Why, then, should
any Treasurer be granted greater powers auto-
matically? Yet the commission recommends that
the Treasurer’s consent is sufficient ground for
increasing the note issue beyond the legal limit,
and varying the deposits which the trading
banks have to lodge with the Central Bank.
Why should Parliament delegate its right to
consider these questions to a politician who is
already too powerful? Even the chairman
pointed out that the recommendation means that
a Treasurer could requisition all the deposits
of a bank without notice.
Three members propose that the Note-issue
Department should be merged more closely with
the Commonwealth Bank, whereas any practi-
cal businessman can see that currency matters
are something quite distinct, and not really
banking at all. The currency authority, to be
in a position to redeem the notes at full value,
must receive payment in full for every note
handed out. The authority is responsible for
maintaining the asset-backing. It usually keeps
most of it in sound interest-bearing securities,
and the remainder in gold or sterling, forgoing
interest in order to provide liquidity. Because
this gold “cover” is small some people imagine
that five pounds’ worth of notes can be got by
handing in one pound’s worth of gold. What
has the Royal Commission done to uproot such
a common but childish misconception?
The currency authority should make profits,
but at present some of these are handed to the
Government as easy money to spend. It would
be better to separate this business from poli-
ticians as far as possible, and let such profits
accumulate, invested, perhaps, in loans to local
authorities, supported by collateral security
which could be made to yield a revenue if fore-
closure became necessary. The bigger the Note-
issue Department’s assets grow in comparison
with the notes in circulation the cheaper such
moneys can be lent.
The fall in bank shares is mentioned
elsewhere on this page ; comparisons of
quotations for leading industrial and
other issues over the last six months are
given hereunder:
March April July Sept.
16. 29. 29. 22.
Carlton .. .. 64/- 63/6 67/6 63/9
C.-Perkins .. 26/- 26/9 26/9 25/9
Tooth .. .. 57/- 58/3 55/6 55/9
Assoc. News ..24/3 23/7 23/- 22/9
Australian Glass 93/6 90/ — 95/3 92/-
Australian Paper 39/- 35/- 33/6* 32/6
Aus. Cement . . 31/6 31/6 32/- 32/
B.H. Prop. ..91/3 81/3 82/9 77/6
Burns, Philp .. 80/- 73/- 72/9 57/-*
Electrolytic Zinc. 66/6 57/6 58/- 55/-
Fairymead .. 39/3 37/6 35/- 30/6
G. J.' Coles ..106/- 105/- 111/6 96/-
Mauri Bros. .. .75./.- 74/- 70/6 70/-
W. H. Soul ..84/6 85/- 90/- 89/-
Yarra Falls .. 43/- 42/-* 39/9* 40/6
North B.H. .. 89/3 70/9 76/- 71/-
B.H. South .. 58/- 46/9 47/9 45/-
Mt. Lyell .. 52/6 45/3 43/6 42/-
G’brough, Mort 39/6 39/- 36/6 33/9
Winchcombe .. 36/6 36/6 36/-* 35/-
Adelaide Steam 32/6 32/6 31/3 30/9
Q’land Insurance 60/9 60/- 60/- 60/9
A. Gas “A” .. £7.2 £7.3 £7.4 £7.2
* Ex rights.
Broken Hill Prop, is outstanding in the
marking-down suffered at the hands of
the market. It has dropped almost in
the same proportion as the Broken Hill
silver-lead stocks and Electrolytic Zinc
and Mt. Lyell. The movement is hard
to justify. Carlton Brewery also stands
out as a sufferer in its class. Yarra
Falls (textiles) has been comparatively
steady.
* * * *
Copra, one of the first of the war
materials to slump after the financial
scare of last April, has steadied around
£l4 ss. a ton (South Seas) in London —
a fall of about 33 1-3 p.c. from the early-
-1937 “peak.” Rubber has dropped
about 25 p.c., lead and spelter over 40
p.c., electrolytic copper 25 p.c., tin 16
p.c., and wool and wheat are slightly
weaker. The most hectic days of high
prices this year were the last week in
March and first week in April; falling
prices were then evident for about six
weeks; some recovery was noticeable
late in May. The latest period of un-
certainty has carried prices in nearly
every case (tin and copper excepted) to
the lowest point of the year to date.
sjs sjc sjc Se
Myer Emporium’s profit of £321,011,
up £31,347, was equal to 14.3 p.c. on
ord. capital after allowing for pref. re-
quirements, as against 13 p.c. and 11.3
p.c. in the two preceding years. Div.
is 9 p.c., and last week’s price of 365.
9d. included Is. 2d. of it. Allowing for
this' amount accrued, the return on a 9
p.c. div. basis is just under 5.1 p.c.
* * * *
. The £1 shares in Adelaide Steam, at
30s. 9d. in Sydney last week, are at their
lowest level for some time, and return
a shade over £4 11s. p.c. on a 7 p.c. div.
basis, or £5 4s. p.c. if the rate lifts later
on to 8 p.c. They are a stock well worth
watching, and may be safely bought if
bargain prices happen to be offered dur-
ing the present market setback.
* * * *
In Melbourne last week:
Industrial shares received much better sup-
port towards the week-end, the movement being
more general than spectacular. Barrier mines
were also stronger, and Mt. Lyell responded to
improved copper prices.
Lancefield kept around 12s. following an-
nouncement of a profit of £111,747 (after pro-
viding £13,500 for taxation), up £4970, and
equal to just under 2s. 3d. a share. The
previous announcement of a half-yearly div. of
Is. 3d. raised hopes in some quarters that profits
would be greater than now disclosed. The
yield, however, even on 2s. a share a year, at
the present market amounts to 16.6 p.c. A
good deal depends on results of development
work.
The chairman of Wellington Alluvials
announced that capital outlay would eventually
be about £85,000 more than the sum subscribed
by shareholders, the dredge having run into
more than expected, and new areas having been
acquired after testing. The scrip sold at
ss. 6d. after the meeting.
Arthur Cocks Ords.
For income purposes the ord.
shares in Arthur Cocks and Co.,
wholesalers of optical goods,
jewellery, etc., Sydney, look fair
buying at last week’s quote of
255. 6d., cum Is. 7d. div. Yield on
an 8 p.c. div. basis is 6.6 p.c. The
future isn’t likely to be spectacu-
lar, but the past has been solid.


A M ESS AC E TO
TH E PE OPL E O F
NEW SOUTH WALES
Directly or indirectly, everyone in New South
Wales benefits every day from the services of
this Bank. Even if you have never entered its
doors, the Bank touches your life somewhere,
by financing primary production and home-
building, and contributing to the growth and
activity of the State. As part of its function
the Bank provides a cheque account service
and accepts interest-bearing Fixed Deposits.
You need not be a farmer nor a home-builder
to enjoy the services of the Rural Bank. Cheque
accounts are opened and Fixed Deposits ac-
cepted for all sections of the community.
RURAL BANK
OF NEW SO UTH WAL ES
HEAD OFFICE: MARTIN PLACE. SYDN.EY
Commissioners: C. R. McKerihan. (Pres.), H. Rogers, P. Kearns-
of PLEASURE and SAFETY
1
m
*0?
r
n
i
C7//ere~iwc/'Bpcl{
Defective wheel
alignment causes ab-
normal tread tvear —'
an overhaul saves
tyre money.
Barnet Glass
"Checkskid’Tyres
THE TYRES WITH THE LONGEST, NON-SKID LIFE
M89.i4.37 Barnet Glass Rubber Co. Ltd(lncorporated in Victoria)
Adelaide,
Perth.
TRITON
VERTICAL
Single-Acting
PLUNGER
PUMP
Overall height, 19in.
Diameter of cylinder, 2|in.
Length of stroke, 11 in.
Fitted for lin. suction and delivery
pipes.
Normal speed, 300 r.p.m.
Capacity, 6 galls, per minute.
Renewable gunmetal ring-oil bear-
ings.
Brass piston valve seats, stems,
plates and springs.
All parts easily accessible without
disconnecting piping.
Price, with fast and loose pulleys,
£9/10/-.
For Other Styles, Prices on Application.
e
Proprietary Limited
546 Collins Street, Melbourne.
51 Bathurst Street, Sydney.
THE IDEAL PUMP
For a Moderate
WATER SUPPLY
This splendid little pump has been specially
designed for services where a small amount of
water is wanted at moderate pressure.
The “Triton” works smoothly and silently,
delivering about 6 gallons per minute at
300 r.p.m.
It gives long, trouble-free service, and requires
practically no attention.
The “Triton” is supplied in three
styles: (above) with fast and
loose pulleys lOin. diameter x
1 Jin. face; (centre) direct
coupled to electric motor with
chain drive; (below) direct
coupled to electric motor with
vee-belt drive.
When ordering a
pump direct-coupled
to electric motor,
please advise voltage
and type of electric
current available.
Write for a copy
of our new com-
plete Catalogue
No. 37.
Scottish Loan and Finance
Copies of a single sheet of stout, im-
portant-looking paper with a bluish tint,
printed with the name of, and figures
relating to, the Scottish Loan and
Finance Co., Ltd., have been seen in
Sydney lately. The shares in this con-
cern have been offered by salesmen from
time to time to people in various parts
of the Commonwealth (some of whom
have got in touch with The Bulletin),
sometimes for cash and sometimes in
exchange for other scrip.
This selling campaign may actually
be none of the Scottish Loan Co.’s busi-
ness. But the publication of the docu-
ment mentioned seems to be. It pur-
ports to be signed by “L. Coleman Ein-
feld, Secretary,” who might be Scottish
or he mightn’t. No other officers of
the Caledonian firm are mentioned. No
auditors’ names appear.
Some unusual things are noticeable
in the figures published. A setting-
out of “capital and liabilities” and
“assets” is described as “Interim State-
ment of Affairs as at June 30, 1937.”
A. E. Barton, in his Australasian
Advanced Accountancy, says: “In a
balance sheet the assets are stated at
their value to the business as a going
concern, but in a statement of affairs
the assets are stated at the amount
which they might be expected to bring
on a forced realisation.” It is difficult
to understand (unless the books have
been kept by single-entry) the reason in
the Scottish Loan’s case for describing
as a “statement of affairs” what is obvi-
ously in form a balance sheet. The
N. S. Wales Companies Act provides that
balance sheets issued to shareholders
must be audited. The thing put out
under the name of Scottish Loan and
Finance Co. may not have been issued
to shareholders; but in any case it has
been printed, and it carries no auditors’
report at its foot.
In the “interim profit and loss account
for six months ended June 30, 1937,” in-
terest and commission earnings are
shown at £6254, “profit on sale of shares,
£1250,” expenses at £1353, net profit at
£6151.
The “statement of affairs” puts paid
capital at £114,565, sundry creditors at
£1248, mortgage discount £134, overdraft
£477, p. and 1. balance £5381. Furniture,
etc., £650, sundry debtors and mortgages
(£153,186, less reserve £57,624) £95,562,
debtors on open account £lOOO, invest-
ments £24,216, cash £3 and preliminary
exes. £374 make up a balance-sheet total
of £121,805.
One thing in the p. and 1. account that
strikes the eye is “profit on sale of shares,
£1250” —a most unusual item to go into
revenue. Another thing is the “interim
div.” paid in April—£77o, representing a
decimal of 1 p.c. flat on capital as at
June 30. In the balance sheet cash
amounted to £3, and the bank had ad-
vanced only £477. Most finance cos..
where bank accommodation can be got
at around 5 p.c. or 6 p.c., find that it is
profitable, to pledge a reasonable pro-
portion of their assets on which they
are generally deriving a considerably
higher return. What rate of interest
Scottish Loan is earning on its securities
is hard to gauge. Though a reserve of
£57,624 appears in the books against
book values, with total outgo for the
six months shown at £1353, it seems that
little or none of the reserve was created
out of revenue in that period.
People individually, and people col-
lectively to the point of representing
“countries,” who have been selling gold
to London and New York have had
either to leave the proceeds invested in
the country of sale or to take them out
in goods. That is the net effect of sell-
ing gold—“world money.” Following
the recent crashes on Wall-street and the
depression on London Stock Exchange
there may be less readiness to sell gold
in Britain or America owing to the diffi-
culty of finding such attractive invest-
ments for the proceeds as appeared to
be offering in the early part of this year.
Neither Britain nor U.S.A. has such
large balances of payments due to it
at the end of each trading year as to
warrant the inflow, of gold at the rate
established over the past couple of years.
More capital has been flowing into coun-
tries already overflush with capital.
The fall in base-metal and other com-
modity prices over the past few months
should have the effect of bringing down
several varieties of costs in various parts
of the world, including its chief gold-
fields, but perhaps not at a rate so rapid
as the upward movement when com-
modity prices were rising. Labor at the
moment, too, is inclined to be collar-
proud regardless of conditions. Never-
theless, if the present slump stays
“slumped” for any length of time low-
grade goldmining should get another
fillip ; and if gold keeps pouring out of
the earth, with London and New York
less attractive markets than they were,
the eventual effect may be recovery in
commodity prices at no far-distant date.
* * * *
From Comet Deeps (B. 22/9/’37), the
Marshall show that has a lease alongside
De Bernales’s Comet area at Marble
Bar (W.A.), has come a report that the
co. has “cut footwall Comet lode 25ft.
from main shaft, dish samples showing
free gold.” The sharemarket is mildly-
interested, and paid up to Is. lid. for the
fully-paid 4s. scrip last week.


SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under fhe Whip
An accident has kept Cassar out of
the A.J.C. Derby, to be run on Saturday,
and Lynch Law, his preparation inter-
rupted, is to go to Melbourne instead.
It should be a most interesting race for
all that. Courtcraft (Limond-Homage),
who was unbeaten as a two-year-old, is
to represent Maoriland, and from Vic-
toria have come three uncommonly good
colts, each perhaps of a higher standard
than some previous Derby winners: Hua
(Heroic-Gladioli), Ajax (Heroic-Med-
menham) and Avenger (Pantheon-Chat-
terbox).
Which is the best of the three? On
performances, Ajax, winner of the A.J.C.
Sires’ Produce Stakes, the Champagne
Stakes and the Rosehill Guineas. He has
been undefeated at Caulfield and in Syd-
ney, his only reverses being in the V.R.C.
Ascot Vale Stakes (he was second to
Caesar) and the V.R.C. Sires’ Produce
Stakes—Hua won that race, Caesar being
second. Ajax is a chestnut of command-
ing appearance, and really the only thing
against him is that he likes to go to the
front and make his own running. In recent
years, Randwick people have seen Silver
King (1934), Mollison (1928) and Soorak
(1922) do that and run second. But Ajax
is a more solid-looking customer than
was any of that trio ; and his sire in
1924 paced a very strong field up to Sir
Dighlock, whose rider had tried to steal
the race, and when he got the lead held
off the challenges of Nigger Minstrel and
Spearfelt.
Hua is another stout-looking fellow.
He is trained by Scobie, who had Tri-
talve in 1927, and is to attempt to equal
Trivalve’s achievement of winning the
Derby without a previous race as a three-
year-old. However, he has had a gallop
with the colors up at Rosehill, with
Silver Standard for partner, and the
veteran Booth has testified that there has
never been a better Derby trial there.
Avenger had no two-year-old record,
and in the Chatsworth Plate at Caulfield
on August 14 Ajax gave him two stone
and a beating. But Avenger has come on
so much since that it is improbable that
Ajax could do the same again. The
Pantheon colt’s second to Talking in the
Hill Stakes at Rosehill, interfered with
as he was at the start and last at the
half-mile, made a distinct impression on
everyone who saw the performance. His
dam was a good Magpie mare and his
sire one of the finest English-bred
stayers that ever raced in Australia.
Bristol (Pantheon-Bairn) will probably
be Sydney’s worthiest representative. His
dam was merely a sprinter, but in all
his races this black colt of Kelso’s has
galloped like a stayer in the making. He
was fourth in the A.J.C. Sires’ Produce
Stakes, finishing ahead of Hua, and as a
three-year-old has won twice (Warwick
Farm Novice Handicap and Canterbury
Guineas).
In spite of the possibility that those
two generous goers Ajax and Hua may
beat one another, and that Avenger, with
something in reserve, may come along
and beat both, Ajax is here selected.
But the finish may be as exciting as that
of the 1924 Derby.
All going well with Gold Rod and
Talking in the meantime, one or other
will be favorite for the Epsom, and it
may be 10 to 1 bar two. Gold Rod
has 9st. 31b., Talking 9st. 21b. Rather
substantial weights for four-year-olds, and
this Page doesn’t regard either as the
equal of Chatham, who won at the same
age with Bst. 131 b., or of Amounis, who
had Bst. 111 b. (he beat Fuji San, 9st. 91b.),
at four years. The chief thing in their
favor is that their opponents are anything
but a high-class lot. Talking may be
superior to the chestnut.
King’s Head (9st. 61b.) demonstrated
on Saturday that he hasn’t deteriorated
since the autumn ; all the same, he seems
to have too much weight. Prittle
Prattle (Bst. 111 b.) reads better; he is a
pretty good Randwick horse and was
third in the last Epsom (with 7st. 131 b.)
to Capris and Gay Lover. But he can’t
be said to be thrown in, and his antics
at the Rosehill barrier weren’t reassur-
ing. The Chanter (Bst. 91b.) is a good
horse in Melbourne, but has hitherto
failed to accustom himself to Sydney
styles of starting and galloping.
Gay Chou (Bst. 61b.) is another that
seems to be well looked after by the han-
dicapper. Evening Mist (Bst. 31b.) and
Silver Rose (Bst. lib.) were third and
second respectively in the Doncaster. It
is questionable whether either is now as
good as she proved herself then, though
Evening Mist looked pretty well on
Saturday.
Newcastle is strongly represented with
Tuckiar (7st. 121 b.), Red Thespian (7st.
101 b.) and Bundar (7st. 51b.), all Rand-
wick winners. Like Gold Rod, Tuckiar
has a tendency to get into difficulties
when galloping in a big field, and
Bundar, though a decent performer in
second-rate company, may not be quite
class enough for an Epsom. But Red
Thespian makes a strong appeal. Now
a five-year-old, he won two good races
at Randwick in the autumn. In one,
the Bronte Handicap, he beat Arabia, a
capital trial horse, by lengths and ran
the mile in lmin. 36-!sec., which is a
shade better than the Epsom average ;
and in the A.J.C. Tramway Handicap on
September 11 he galloped alongside Gold
Rod all the way and beat him off, finish-
ing just behind the place-getters. Cer-
tainly he failed in the James Cameron
Handicap on Thursday, running third
to Bundar and Mila,.theon (dead heat),
but the owner has said that he got into
some loose dirt when going well. It
should not be forgotten that a failure at
Rosehill preceded his two fine perform-
ances at the Randwick Easter meeting.
Sal Volatile (7st. 121b.)and Black Laugh-
ter (7st. 71b.) are outsiders to be respected.
Black Laughter was a close fourth in
Capris’s Epsom, and his fourth in the
Camellia Stakes at Rosehill was rather
a taking performance, for he was un-
backed and apparently a bit above him-
self. He was kicked at the post on
Saturday, and couldn’t raise a gallop.
Quality Handicap running gives Mohi-
can (7st. 91b.) a chance. And Panax (7st.
1 lib.) has never run a bad race at Rand-
wick, but it is suggested that he may be
reserved for minor handicaps. Red
Thespian is this Page’s fancy.
Mala (Bst. 131 b.) may go out favorite
for the Metropolitan. His owner, Cooper,
thinks he is a wonder, and Randwick
allows that he is a good horse. It is in
his favor, as it is in that of Cooper’s
other boom neddy in the Epsom, that
the opposition is not particularly strong.
Now that he has got over his unfor-
tunate habit of running second, Silver
Standard (Bst. 71b.) has undoubted creden-
tials. He looks a much more attractive
proposition than Curator with the same
weight; more attractive too than the 1937
Young Crusader (Bst.).
Mestoravon ran well in the John
Cameron Handicap at Newcastle, and on
Saturday he won the Newcastle Cup with
an excellent finishing run, covering the
mile and three furlongs in 2min. 18sec.
He carried 41b. more than his Metrop.
weight, Bst. 31b., and is evidently right
back to his Sydney Cup form. And
there are not many real stayers about.
Fireman (7st. 131 b.) seldom runs a
bad race, is thoroughly seasoned and
dead game. In the Spring Handicap at
Warwick Farm he set the pace and re-
fused to let Silver Standard pass him in
the straight; on Saturday, however, he
never troubled that horse. Lewis, the
trainer, has Gay Knight (7st. 71b.) in also,
and Gay Knight won the Winter Plate, a
trustworthy guide to the Metrop. result
in 1936 and other year§. But he was
beaten out of a place in the Newcastle
Cup.
Gay Knight and Old Rowley (7st. 51b.)
are gelded sons of The Buzzard, Old
Rowley, a four-year-old, being a year
younger. Old Rowley hasn’t done much
racing, and the best of him is yet to be
seen. He gallops like a stayer, and goes
better with every appearance. One thing
against him is that he is no easy horse
to ride. Vaalmore (7st.) has claims;
this solid old tail-swishing mare seems
to thrive on racing, and she gets it in
large quantities.
Hua (7st. 51b.) is still in, but may not
start. Bradford (7st. 41b.) is a light-
weight with possibilities. Though he
has never been over the Metrop. distance
m public, his owner-trainer, E. F. Smith,
should know the requirements—Donald,
who twice won the Summer Cup, was
trained by Smith on his private course.
Unfortunately, an abscess compelled
Bradford’s retirement from the New-
castle Cup, and Metrop. horses have to
be kept right up to the collar. Sir
Regent (7st. 31b.) is highly thought
of in some quarters; Tapestry (7st. 91b.)
is not badly treated for a much-travelled
horse with a very creditable record as
stayer, and Brazilian (7st. 91b.) is a half-
brother to Peter Pan.
Old Rowley has the vote, though this
Page has a deep respect for Mestoravon.
Allunga should be worth following in
the long-distance w.f.a. races, albeit
Bristol may be a Randwick Plate possi-
bility. For lesser handicaps, Shakespeare,
Country Party and Verberry take the
eye; also Red Thespian, Black Laughter
and Old Rowley, if defeated in the big
faces.
* * * *
Features of the Hawkesbury club’s
meeting, which was held at Rosehill,
were the success of Silver Standard, with
71b. more than his Metrop. weight, in
the Grand Handicap ; Mohican’s defeat
of the favorites, including a strong
Epsom fancy, Prittle Prattle, in the
Quality Handicap ; a fine finish in the
Three-and Four-year-old Handicap, won
by Korimako, and more victories for
two very consistent horses, Aladdin (his
third in three days) and Beaupre (his
second in seven days).
Mohican’s nominal price was 20 to 1.
He flashed up on the rails at the right
moment and defeated King’s Head (8 to
1) by a long head, Gay Chou by an-
other short head. Gay Chou (10 to 1)
is a stable-companion of Prittle Prattle,
who misbehaved at the barrier, and ran
into a dead end soon after turning for
home ; before he could get clear the race
was over. In the circumstances his sixth
was not so bad as it appeared.
Silver Standard was a 9-to-4 favorite
for the Grand Handicap. Darby Munro
had him in a winning position in the first
half-mile, and when he let the chestnut
have his head it was no race. Silver
Standard beat Gay Blonde (8 to 1) by
two lengths and a half and broke the
track record for 10 furlongs (2min. 4|sec.)
by three-quarters of a second. He had
been backed from 7 to 2 to 9 to 4. Sir
Regent came from the clouds to run
third, half a neck behind the Maoriland-
bred mare, and Old Rowley—still worse
placed at the home turn —was a close
fourth. Young Crusader was beaten
five furlongs from home. Fireman
looked very well and had every chance,
but could only finish sixth.
Beaupre’s race was the Rowley Mile.
Six to one was got, Royal Step being a
warm favorite. Young Papworth rode
Beaupre very confidently. Valpan dashed
away at the top of the straight, but
Beaupre caught him, and beat him by
half a neck. Royal Step was a close
third. He was hemmed in on the rails,
and he would have done better had he
been taken on the outside at the turn.
Winner of a double at Victoria Park,
Aladdin had a 101 b. penalty in his divi-
sion of the Novice Handicap and No. 15
position at the barrier. For that reason
the bookmakers offered 5 to 2. Badly
interfered with in the straight when the
leader, Artsman, veered away from the
rails, but pulled together by Munro,
Aladdin got into his stride in time to beat
Artsman handily—-a good, game perform-
ance. The Novice Handicap was run in
three divisions. The others went to
Diatter (6 to 1), who would have been
troubled by Bengal Lancer had that big
chestnut got out earlier, and Kruger (7
to 1).
Concrete Dome (4 to 1), a stablemate
of King’s Head, won the Maiden Handi-
cap in rather taking style from Oration
and Will Rogers. A five-year-old son of
Bullhead, Concrete Dome has been diffi-
cult to train.
Korimako (3 to 1) had to overcome
difficulties in the Three- and Four-year-
old Handicap. She was knoqked back
at the half-mile pole, where Arabia was
in front with lengths to spare, but she
finished in great style to beat the grey in
the last stride. Mark Antony was a
close third; he had drawn level with
Arabia in the final furlong.
* * * *
Unlike the Quality Handicap at Rose-
nill, the Quality Handicap at Moonee
Valley, where Quality Handicaps origi-
nated, went to the favorite, Aurie’s Star.
Ability to begin quickly won for
Aurie’s Star, as Pamelus, after being
ninth in a field of 11 at the half-mile,
ran him to half a neck. Nearing the
judge’s box Aurie’s Star tried to savage
Pamelus, and the Queensland stallion
replied in kind, to the amusement of on-
lookers, though the jockeys didn’t see
the joke. Regular Bachelor was less than
a length behind the other Queensland
horse.
Few Australian owners bet more cour-
ageously—on their own horses —than G.
W. Badman. When wagering opened on
the Quality Handicap 5 to 1 could be
had about Aurie’s Star; the price short-
ened to half those odds. Night Gang, a
second South Aus. representative, re-
ceded from fours to 11 to 2. He vainly
tried to overhaul Aurie’s Star, and
finished almost on terms with Young
Idea in fourth place,
The form of Young Idea—compara-
tively friendless at 25 to I—was1 —was impres-
sive. His jockey, Brown, had won on
Balkan Prince at Mentone a week before,
and seems likely to do a lot of riding
for Holt’s stable in the spring. Charles
Fox was unruly at the post, and un-
seated Breasley.
Studio, Valiant Chief and Sir Grey
were among the losers. Strange to say,
Studio was beaten for pace early. Valiant
Chief knocked up after being third for
most of the journey. He ran second-last.
Stevenage, who has come into request
for the Caulfield Cup, registered his third
consecutive victory and his fourth win
in six starts by taking the middle-dis-
tance Tullamarine Handicap at 7 to 4.
A better price could be got (at Rosehill
3 to 1 was laid). He followed the pace
set by Lady Kooringal, and established
control at the half-mile.
Feature of Tullamarine Handicap
speculation was the backing of Wotan
from 10 to 1 down to sevens. Last
year’s Melbourne Cup winner is on the
way to becoming cherry-ripe when the
big two-miler at Flemington arrives.
Taken to the outside three furlongs from
home, he passed horse after horse in bril-
liant fashion and finished less than a
length behind Stevenage.
Badly checked near the turn, Imitari
was a good thing beaten in the Merri
Trial Handicap, won by the former M.L.
performer Dolphin, a 6-to-l chance.
Dolphin had 2| lengths to spare from
Chu Chin Chow, who was three-quar-
ters of a length in advance of Imitari (3-
to-1 favorite).
Sidcup (5 to 2) sent Valley backers
home happy by annexing the mile Ailsa
Handicap. He had a rather rough pas-
sage and deserves credit, but even more
praise is due to Humorist. This Brazen
stallion was flying at the finish and lost
by half a length. Rostrim got away
well, but was skittled to the rear after
covering a couple of furlongs.
(Continued on next page.)
Footbrawl
Playing much the better football in the
last quarter, Geelong caught and passed
Collingwood to win the V.F.L. “grand”
final by 18-14 to 12-18. The teams were
level at the end of the third quarter,
and a record crowd was treated to a fast
and spectacular finale to Melbourne’s
football season. More than 88,500 people
packed M.C.G., paying £5960.
* * * *
South Africa is one up on Maoriland
at Rugby Union. The result of the last
Test match at Auckland was never in
doubt after the first few minutes. The
Springbok forwards and backs had so
much the better of things that the Maori-
landers never once got over. At the final .
whistle it was 17 to 6 —five tries, one con-
verted, to two penalty goals. Fifty-five
thousand Maorilanders witnessed the rout.
FOR RANDWICK.
Epsom: Red Thespian, 1 ; Black
Laughter or Panax, 2 ; Talking, 3.
Metrop.: Old Rowley, 1 ; Mes-
toravon, 2 ; Silver Standard, 3.
Derby: Ajax, 1; Avenger, 2;
Hua, 3.
Trial Stakes: Old Rowley; next,
Country Party or Sir Regent. '
Spring Stakes: Allunga.
Kensington Handicap: Panax or
Shakespeare ; next, St. Constant.
Shorts: The Marne."
Grantham Stakes: Shakespeare
or Birthday Boy.
Squatters’ Handicap: Verberry.
FOR FLEMINGTON.
Melbourne Stakes: Pamelus;
next, John Wilkes.
Manifold Stakes: Sweet Memories.
Stand Handicap: Lautus; next,
Alinura.


\m t
-
m
€%
ft
Illliis
-
/ 'i*
m
\
VV. >
For Men -
new smartness,
greater Comfort in
SHIRTS
Tricoline looks like silk and
feels like silk . . . but it wears
like whipcord.
That’s why any man will revel
in the economical comfort of a
Tricoline shirt.
Leading Mercers and Men’s
Outfitters will show you
Tricoline shirts in quiet or
bold patterns . . . just as your
taste inclines.
The colours are guaranteed
fast and every Tricoline shirt
is Becken shrunk.
Ask your Mercer what that
means . . . and share his ad-
miration for Tricoline.
SHIRTS FOR MEN
TRICOLINE
RECD.
Produced in England ... A Wemco Fabric
BRISBANE: Walter C. Williams, Ryan House, Charlotte Street.
MELBOURNE: K. Mather, Pawson House, Flinders Lane.
PERTH: Marshall Flower, 757 a Hay Street.
SYDNEY: Keogh & Co., Grace Building, York Street.
G INTERNATIONAL
INDUSTRIES
FAIR
Visit the selling centre of 25 nations—
the market-place of a hundred countries
throughout the world.
Whatever is new in merchandise and
machinery is to be found at Leipzig Fair.
If you need overseas goods you’ll get
more for your money when you buy in
this popular centre.
SPRING FAIR commences
March 6, 1938.
Comprising: General Samples, Textiles,
Office Equipment, Furniture, Sports
Goods, Photographic, Engineering and
Building Fairs.
Information (including Travel Marks and
Aski Trading Marks) and Letters of Intro-
duction available of Lars G. Brundahl, Com-
missioner in Australia for the Leipzig Trade
Fair, Challis House, Martin Place; G.P.O.
Box 3127 P, Sydney.
C. N. KEPPEL, Temple Court, 422 Collins
Street; G.P.O. Box 20245, Melbourne.
H. C. ITTERSHAGEN, Shenton Park, West
Australia.
Summer in Germany is the
Perfect.on of the beautiful.
TRACT©*
■ he
So*® 80 ®
m
14 H.P. ON DRAWBAR— 26 H.P. ON BELT
(Australian Tests by Mr. E. J. C. Rennie, Melbourne University.)
You can do every farm or station job quicker, easier
and cheaper with dependable Fordson power. Simple
and sturdy in design, Fordson is the ideal unit for field-
work or stationary power —in the field it does the
work of an 8-horse team. 13,000 owners throughout
Australia have proved the Fordson —ask your nearby
Fordson Dealer to arrange a test under your own
working conditions. Easy purchase terms.
The English
TRACTOR
DISTRIBUTORS:
New South Wales: MOTOR TRACTORS PTY. LTD.
Corner Bridge and Young Streets, Sydney
FORDSON FEATURES
HEAVY-DUTY TRANSMISSION
“HOT-SPOT” FUEL VAPORISER
GOVERNOR CONTROL
OPTIONAL SPEEDS
OPTIONAL GEAR RATIOS
STATICALLY AND DYNAMICALLY
BALANCED CRANKSHAFT
EXHAUST VALVE INSERTS
BOSCH MAGNETO IMPULSE
STARTER
REAR END POWER TAKE-OFF
(optional at extra cost)
Queensland: BUZACOTT’S (Queensland) LIMITED
443 Adelaide Street, Brisbane
Victoria, Riverina and Tas.: MALCOLM MOORE
LTD., City Showrooms: 601-3 Lt. Collins St., Melb.
South Australia: POWER PLANT LTD.
90-100 Currie Street, Adelaide
Western Australia : LYNAS MOTORS LTD.
Hay Street, Perth
FORD
Under the Whip
After all its declarations of the sacred
war it was going to wage on s.p. betting,
the Stevens Government has done no-
thing. It is evidently afraid even to men-
tion the subject before the Common-
wealth election. Newspapers which
boom this Government gave the public
to understand that the outrageous race-
course-admission, totalisator (9 p.c.) and
bookmakers’-turnover taxes were to be
reduced all round, probably before the
A.J.C. spring meeting; but the Budget
has been presented, the races are about
to begin, and the public and the book-
makers are to be skinned as before.
Moverly, the member for Randwick,
was so disgusted that he put a reduction
motion on the notice paper in his own
name. Thereby he broke one of the car-
dinal rules of the party game, the private
member being expected to be a worm in
these matters, and to submit to whatever
the bosses decide is good for him and his
constituents; but Moverly says he
doesn’t care.
* * * *
Golden Promise and Plymouth Sound
have gone wrong and have been taken
out of the two Cups. Still, Holt will
have a worthy representative in Balkan
Prince. Holt has been lucky in the
horses he has had from Westralia.
Eurythmic was, of course, the best, but
Mistico, Maple, Easingwold and Second
Wind were all good.
* * * *
The V.A.T.C. had an even more pros-
perous year than the V.R.C. That great
institution wound up with a profit of
£10,400 ; the Caulfield club’s revenue ex-
ceeded its expenditure by £15,261. Dur-
ing the year to August 31, £36,000 was
spent ori course improvements and
£18,550 on course maintenance, while
£lOOO was set aside for the trustees of
the racecourse reserve.
M.Q. and Rafferty
Bob Arlene (9st. 91b.), the lightweight
champion of Queensland, made his first
Sydney appearance at Newtown opposed
to another Queenslander, the aboriginal
Tommy Jaro, and was voted a pretty
good pug. Jaro forced the fighting, but
he is a swinger and Arlene a straight-
puncher. The straight-puncher was lead-
ing on points in the fifth, when Jaro was
cautioned for butting. Referee Wallis then
ordered both to their corners, so that
Arlene might recover in time for the
next round. Then Jaro again repeated
his butting, and he was disqualified.
Ins and Outs
“Tenth Slip”: The Board of Control,
meeting in Sydney to arrange for the next
tour of England, began by deciding that
only a manager should go, and appointed
its secretary, W. H. Jeanes, of Adelaide.
He will act as treasurer as well. The
team is to land in England on April 21,
leaving Fremantle on March 21. It will
play 29 matches in addition to the five
Tests, the last being against the Gentle-
men of Ireland, beginning September 15.
The Tests will be played at Notts, Lord’s,
Old Trafford, Leeds and the Oval, start-
ing on June 10, June 24, July 8, July 22
and August 20. The tourists will play
at Launceston, Hobart, Perth and
Colombo on the way to England, but
an Indian invitation had to be turned
down.
& jfc sfc jJs
“Tenth Slip”: For a politician Minister
Dunningham seems to be lacking in tact.
On the eve of the Board of Control
meeting in Sydney he announced that
he had arranged with the N.S.W. women
cricketers to play a series of matches in
Sydney with a team from Maoriland.
Seeing that the chairman of the board,
now re-elected, has expressed himself
on the subject of women’s cricket in
terms which can be described only as
regrettable, Dunningham might have
waited a few days.
* * * *
“Susie Swattit”: All the girls are de-
lighted to hear Dr. Robertson has been
re-elected chairman of the Board of Con-
trol. The dear man has recently given
women’s cricket the best junk of publicity
it has ever got, and all for nixy, so to
speak. His opinions on the subject have
been cabled to every cricket-playing
country and have been responsible for
many flattering tributes to our proficiency
in the game. Also his expressed hope
that when next an English girls’ team
comes here it will go on the rocks and
have to ask its passage home from the
board has not escaped attention. Coun-
sel’s opinion from one of our members
who is a typist in a solicitor’s office is
that this constitutes an implied contract,
and more may be heard of the matter.
# * * *
“Tenth Slip”: Sydney will see a
plethora of cricket other than the grade
matches at the end of November. The
four-day match against the All-Blacks
begins on November 19, and is followed
by a game between a N.S.W. Second XI
and the touring Westralians. As a conse-
quence, Country Week has been post-
poned to start on November 29, ending
on December 3. A letter from the M.L.
Cricket Council to its N.S.W. opposite
number expresses thanks for the terms
offered by N.S.W.—all the net takings—
since the English tour of the All-Black
team has been a flop financially.
* * * *
“Five Ways”: The Queensland C.A. is
persisting with its ban on persons other
(Continued on next page.)


"silver edge"
BRAKE LINING
I
BRAKE TROUBLES
The majority of brake troubles are due either to poor brake
lining or mal- adjustment.
Unless your brakes are adjusted so that the work is distributed equally
on all wheels then the wear is certain to be rapid and the braking poor.
If your brake material is poor in quality then all the effort and
expense of careful adjustment is wasted, for unless the lining
is consistent throughout then the wear cannot be uniform
and the brakes are soon out of correct adjustment.
Use only “RAYBESTOS” BRAKE LlNlNG-
the quality lining.
KAYBESTOS-BELACO, LTD.,
LONDON, ENG.
Factory Rep.: JOHN ARNOLD,
G.P.O. Box 71, Melbourne, Yic
The first Quadruple-acting Tyre Pump to be made-—the Renrut
“Quad’'— surpasses all attempts at imitation. Its robust design
the meticulous accuracy in manufacture, the fine quality of
materials used—these mean years more of reliable and satisfac
tory service. The “supercharger” action pumps ™ ore
the tyre at each stroke —halves inflation time and makes the
job far easier. ~.. K ~/_
Fitted with accurate Pressure gauge. Puce 7
Less Gauge. Price
REN RUT
"QUAD
M
HAND PUMP
Factory Representative:
JOHN ARNOIjD, P.O. Box IL Melbourne, Australia.
IViiTTUf TGRNER
Manufacturers: ,
nun t.TD Evre Work*, Sheffield, 1, England.
than players and umpires entering the
Brisbane C.G. dressing-rooms. Objec-
tions have come solely from officials.
The average player asks nothing better
than a spot of privacy on such occasions,
and the change is a welcome one from the
practice of a few years ago when all and
sundry, including alleged pressmen by the
dozen, swarmed all over the dressing-
rooms.
«!> ■!’ -S' >!•
“Newlands”: The South African
cricket controllers have decided to adopt
the Australian eight-ball over for all
matches in the Union. More than that,
the Afrikanders have resolved to get
Marylebone to agree to the adoption of
the longer over for all matches in which
the English side of 1938-39 takes part.
Allen reported favorably on the innova-
tion when here in charge of the last
English team, and it seems to be only a
question of time before the Maryle-
boners incorporate it in the laws of the
game.
* * * *
“Aigburth”: Robins suggests a time
limit for Test matches—3o hours in both
England and Australia. In England he
suggests playing hours from 11.30 to
6.30 over five days and in Australia six
days of five hours from noon till 6 p.m.
Robins maintains that the present system
of a couple of hours before lunch is a
heavy strain on bowlers with a long
afternoon to follow. His idea is sound
and is receiving authoritative backing,
both in England and Australia.
❖ Jfi H*
“Aigburth”: A final close-up of the
English cricket season shows Hammond
on top of the averages —for the fourth
time in the last four seasons —with 65.
Hardstaff, a favorite here with Allen’s
team, was second with 57. And Hard-
staff won the Lawrence trophy for the
season’s fastest hundred: for Notts
against Kent he piled up 126, the 100
taking only 51 minutes and the full score
70.
Nineteenth Hole
“Divot Digger”: N.S.W. amateur
championship congestion in the short
winter days has moved the heads to put
the next tourney back to September or
October. It is suggested that this time the
meeting be held on the La Perouse course.
If this is done it will be the first time the
affair has not been staged at Rose Bay
or Kensington. Bonnie Doon will be
the scene of the N.S.W. close champion-
ship, held over 72 holes medal play on
October 8 and 9. Entries close on Sep-
tember 30. Jim Ferrier holds the title.
N.S.W. Country Week will be held on
several of the Sydney golf courses from
October 11 to October 18. The cham-
pionship will be played at the Lakes
Club, the 16 qualifiers over 36 holes
stroke deciding the title in match play.
Get your entries in by October 1.
* * * *
“Oakleigh”: Promoters of this year’s
A.I.F. golf tourney have some heavy staff
work ahead of them. Over 600 entries
have come in for the affair, which begins
on the Eastern club’s course to-morrow.
A start will be made at 5.30 a.m.,
and it is expected the last pair will
not leave the tape until 5 p.m. Given
anything like a gloomy day, it is odds
on that some of the last players will not
be able to finish.
* * * *
“Dookie”: Numerous golfers dragged
themselves o’er hill and dale for the
cause of sweet charity in a marathon
match across country in Victoria. The
course followed ran for five miles in a
straight line across a difficult country
including 1500 ft. Mt. Major. The win-
ner was Heaney, of Wangaratta, who,
with a handicap of 14, did the journey in
three hours, his net score being 57.
* * * *
“Gregory Terrace”: The golf craze has
got Australia fairly by the seat of the
pants. Brisbane Council’s course in Vic-
toria Park has become so congested that
the council is to build another, some-
where on the south side of the river this
time. Last year the weekly attendance
averaged close on 700 and revenue was
just on £6OOO. In Melbourne, Yarra
Bend, another public course, handles
over 1000 people each week. Its trustees,
after brushing up the course and build-
ing a costly clubhouse, are repaying a
Government loan and talking of devot-
ing a thousand a year to the upkeep of
Yarra Bend National Park. All over-
Australia the story of public courses is
much the same, with the exception of
Sydney’s municipal white elephant at
Moore Park.
* * * *
“Aigburth”: A Ballarat golfer named
Vernon has acquired fame by driving a
ball into the cab of a moving railway
engine. It recalls the imperishable legend
attending on every cricket ground in the
Empire near a railway line which tells
how a ball was hit into a passing train
and carried off. Sometimes the story goes
that the batsmen ran 5000 runs more or
less before darkness ended the day.
Other versions say that “lost ball” was
called and disputed because everyone
knew where the thing was. Others, again,
point out that as the train must have
been out of bounds the ball was dead,
“They ought to handicap him, I reckon—he always wins by a touch.”
and still others are ready to take their
Bible oath the dashed thing never hap-
pened. The Ballarat affair is sworn to
by reliable, if golfing, witnesses.
* * * *
“Delia”: Once more fact plagiarises
fiction. All know the story of the bun-
kered Jew who said when he climbed
out that he had taken six strokes. On
his opponent saying he had counted 60,
he explained he was killing a snake. At
Orbost in Victoria an associate player
found a snake guarding her ball when
she went up to the green to putt. The
lady killed the serpent with her putter,
and now the question is how many
strokes she should count or what in-
fringements of the tricky green rules she
should be penalised for. 'The matter is
sub judice.
Racquet and Bawl
“Rev. Knucklebone”: The first im-
pressions of a new hand are always
worth noting, whether derived from a
royal drawing-room or a two-up school.
Young Bromwich, just returned from his
first trip abroad, is eloquent on the
general high standard of play in the
tennis-playing countries of Europe. For
every Australian of outstanding calibre
Europe has half a dozen, all capable of
making the best of opponents play their
darnedest to beat them. The youth is
probably right. Our tendency to rely on
reputations instead of performance has
not encouraged young players.
* * * *
“Cut Shot”: The tangle over the visit-
ing tennis teams from abroad is straight-
ening out at last. Budge, Mako and
Parker will arrive in Sydney on Novem-
ber 29 for a two months’ tour. The
U.S. tennis heads specially ask us to go
light on hospitality, since the team badly
needs a spell in view of the next Davis
Cup. The visitors will play in the Vic-
torian championships at Melbourne and
the Australian tourney in Adelaide, as
well as in two Tests, one of which will
be Sydney’s share of the show. The Vic-
torian meeting is down to begin on
November 27, so that date will have to
be changed.
The German team is coming via Japan
after all, it would seem, since it expects
to strike Brisbane on December 14. The
Germans were to open their tour there
and also play in Melbourne and Adel-
aide, as well as in Tests, but the schedule
will probably be altered. The team is
Von Cramm, Henkel and Kleinsroth, the
last-named being player-captain and
manager.
* * * *
“Kooyong”: The month of coaching
of a team of young tennis-players by
O’Hara Wood has come to an end and
the trainees have returned home. Wood
has found a lot to alter, especially in the
matter of grips, but thinks highly of the
calibre of his pupils. The coach tips
Pails, of N.S.W., as the most promising
youngster of the lot and one with a
natural flair for the game which should
take him far if he goes in for it seriously.
“Cash Amateur”: V.L.T.A. criticism
of the long-drawn-out tours of amateur
players recalls that law 28 says that ama-
teur players shall not receive travelling
and living expenses for more than eight
weeks in any one year, including travel-
ling time. Harry Hopman comments that
if the rule were enforced “every leading
senior and junior player in N.S.W. and
several in Victoria, Queensland and South
Australia” would have infringed it.
* * * *
“Centre Court”: Secretary Dailley, of
the Surrey (Eng.) L.T.A., has put for-
ward a scheme for bringing back the
Davis Cup to England. It provides for
the appointment of three/ paid coaches ;
then a dozen hard courts are to be built
in various centres and used only for
Davis and Wightman Cup candidates
who seem worth while. The courts would
be supplemented by gymnasiums, each
equipped with masseurs and physical in-
structors. Dailley thinks the idea could
be started for £lO,OOO, to be raised by
subscription and grants from the very
wealthy English L.T.A.
Miscellaneous
“Stand Off”: Like the Rugby League,
the controllers of Australian Rules foot-
ball entertain spasmodic visions of ex-
tending their code to countries which
know it not. An attempt is to be made
to plant the game in Japan, a soil which
at present does not offer alluring pros-
pects. Nevertheless, Rules enthusiasts
visiting Nippon are making inquiries, and
“literature” on the game is being handed
out. At present the Japanese play Rugby
and Soccer on an extensive scale, and
there does not seem room for another
code.
* * * *
“Fitzcray”: Though the Victorian foot-
ball season is dead, wise folk are already
preparing for next year. Hearing that a
paladin of a bush league was sighing for
the bright lights, two Melbourne club
officials rushed 300 miles by car and
signed him up. Other clubs had been
there before Melbourne but, as a Mel-
bourne journal puts it, “had failed to
use the required eloquence.” It is a neat
phrase. “Honorarium,” “fee,” “emolu-
ment,” “financial consideration,” “in-
ducement” and others are familiar, but
“eloquence” is a new one.
* * * *
“Pothunter”: Cabled that the English
Rugby League has lost the run of its
championship cup in spite of a frenzied


¥r
%
■c-;-y=
iy vv.
:- ; !; v - : js
-
immm
i
*•»
<n
? ffMfllll
■^'1111114.,.
23
Excursions to
MANILA & HONGKONG
ROUND TRIP
RETURN FARES
First Saloon
£76
Second Saloon
£49 / 10 / -
Free of Exchange
(in the best Season of the year)
A glorious Holiday of five and a half weeks with no
hotel expenses, calling at Queensland ports and
Rabaul. Passengers may live on board at all ports,
the Australian £ is considerably enhanced in value
and fares are free of exchange.
Leaves Sydney
Tanda, Oct. 13
Nankin, Nov. 13
Nellore, Dec. 11
Return Sydney
Nellore. Nov. 18
Tanda, Dec. 22
Nankin, Jan. 20
Manila only
Manila or
Hongkong
Joint Passenger Agents:
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO.
MACDONALD, HAMILTON & CO.
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE
E&A
Corns Sentenced to Death.
Corns have worried you—now worry them:
although “worry” is hardly the word, for
A’CORN SILK does not trifle with corns, but
ruthlessly kills them. How comfortable your
feet feel after A’CORN SILK has removed
all your soft or hard corns—a 6d. packet will
do this for you without pain or inconvenience.
Corns are killed while you sleep—a matter of
a few hours. Chemists sell A’CORN SILK at
6d. per packet. Packed by Felton, Grimwade
and Duerdins, Ltd., Melbourne.
Superfine Accuracy and 100 p.c.
Reliability are the outstanding
features of the
REMINGTON
MODEL 341 A
“SPORTMASTER”
A 15-shot Tubular Magazine
Bolt Action Repeater Rifle.
Price £5
(Carriage Paid)
This rifle is an up-to-date version
of the Remington Model 34 which
made an instantaneous appeal
to Australian shooters when it
was introduced about three years
ago. It was impossible to im-
prove the 34 mechanically, so
Remington turned their attention
to improving the stock dimen-
sions; gave the rifle a little more
weight, broadened the fore-end
and redesigned the pistol grip.
The result is a truly man-sized
repeater which handles like a
high-grade trap gun for snap
shooting and fits into the
shoulder like a match rifle
when shot from the prone
position. The barrel length
is 24 inches and the weight
of the rifle, complete, is
about 61b.
Write for Mick Simmons’ comprehensive
Shooting Catalogue. Free and post free.
MICK SIMMONS
LTD.,
712-22 George St., Haymarket, Sydney.
Branches: City, Suburbs and Newcastle.
j
MACMILLAN’S
NEW BOOKS
The prices advertised are those at which the
boohs are published in London. Prices outside
the British Isles must be fixed by the importing
bookseller
Cl VITAS DEI.
Volume 11. 12/6.
By LIONEL CURTIS.
“The writer describes how the present
international situation has arisen out of the
past. He takes up his narrative where he
left it in Volume I —and carries it to the
end of 1936. A most eloquent and earnest
book.”— “Observer.’'
INTERNATIONAL
RELATIONS SINCE THE
PEACE TREATIES.
By PROF. E. H. CARR. 6s.
“Is a model of its kind. It is concise,
it gives the relevant facts, and has no
political thesis to serve An invaluable
aid to an understanding of the world to-
day.” —The “Times.”
PEACEFUL CHANGE.
An International Problem.
By C. K. Webster, A. J. Toynbee, L. C.
Robbins, T. E. Gregory, Lucy P. Mair,
Karl Mannheim, H. Lauterpacht and
C. A. W. Manning (Editor).
5 s.
“No one can read the volume, without
feeling that valuable work has been
done It is a real contribution to the
worth-while literature of peace.”
—Aberdeen “Press.”
WE OR THEY.
Two Worlds in Conflict.
By HAMILTON F. ARMSTRONG.
3/6.
“A reasoned study of present-day in-
ternational relations.”
—Manchester “Evening News.”
“Penetrating analysis of world affairs.”
—“Reynolds News.”
To bo Obtained from all
Booksellers.
MACMILLAN & CO., LTD.
MELBOURNE & LONDON, W.C.2.
search. The League secretary says he
hasn’t seen it for three years. Trophies
of the kind have a habit of vanishing and
turning up in the most unexpected places
when they do come to light. Even the
Australian Sheffield Shield, which is not
a vest-pocket affair, was once a.w.l. for
a time.
* * * *
“Repentant Tommy”: Something new
in the' way of gambling joints has been
unearthed in Brisbane. The owner of a
boarding-house was found to have five
“fruit” machines in his lounge, some
being worked by florins and others by
shillings and sixpences. There was an-
other gadget called the “animal”
machine, which asked for pennies. A
disguised constable testified that the
machines were very popular with the
boarders, who were visited by numerous
friends. The proprietor was convicted
and fined a tenner —not so bad, consider-
ing the machines held nearly £70 when
the Hops blew in. The five machines,
valued at another £70, were ordered for
destruction.
* * * *
“Cash Amateur”: The precious ama-
teur status seems in danger again. This
time it concerns a group of Sydney Uni.
oarsmen who are to show in a rowing
film for 15s. a day. The proposal is
right up against the Olympic rule as to
amateur oarsmen, and even in tennis, a
sport in which amateurism is more of a
sham than in any other, giving a tennis
exhibition for money on the film is out-
right professionalism. Still, in these
days when professionals, actual and tech-
nical, appear without question at the
Olympiads, it seems absurd to be fussy.
“Slalom”: Having waited to see Aus-
tralia beat Maoriland in the inter-
Dominion ski matches, the victorious
American team took its departure for
home full of praise for the conduct of
the sport in Australia and for their hosts
in N.S.W. and Victoria. A remark in a
farewell letter of thanks to Premier
Stevens strikes a note which should
sound strangely in the ears of the many
overseas who picture this country as a
vast Sahara ringed by a strip of arid
vegetation: the Australian snow country
is far ahead of any seen in their own
eastern States. Few, even in Australia,
realise that we boast a larger area of
snow country here in winter than even
Switzerland.
* * * *
“Spike”: Denis Short, the South
African quarter-mile runner, recently
toure d the U.S.A. and made a big inl-
pression> So big, indeed, that he was
snowec | un der by offers of “scholarships”
a j. universities and good jobs in commer-
cial jjfe. \y e are familiar in Australia
with the amateur who lives by a job he
would never otherwise have got but for
his athletic pro wess, but university
“ scholarships ” are a new line here. Even
Yale Harvard an d Princeton are not
asha^ed to hand them out to outstand-
j 6 ath letes.
* * * *
,
“Blade Sight’ : The annual G.P.S.
rifle match, of which more should be
heard, was won by Sydney Grammar alter
a tough tussle with North Shore. Scores
were: Grammar 424, Shore 409, and the
win brought Grammar the Buchanan
Shield, Rawson Cup and N.R.A. shields,
which is supposed to be a record perform-
ance in the history of the event. Six
schools competed, only St. Joseph’s and
St. Ignatius standing down.
* * * *
“Casan”: “Pepperbox” (B. 1/9/’37) is
quite wrong when he says “handball is a
poor imitation of the old English game
of fives.” Handball is one of the oldest
Irish games and no imitation of anything
English. Handball “alleys” are found in
almost every parish in Ireland and in
the Basque provinces of Spain, where it
is played in exactly the same way.
* * * *
Old-time wheelmen learned with regret
of the death in a road accident of E. A,
Pearson, one of the finest amateur push-
bike champions Australia has produced.
From the middle of the ’nineties until
his retirement from competitive racing in
1911, Pearson won many titles. His last
performance was a run from Sydney to
Melbourne in 49 hours, still the best
figures for an amateur. And he stroked
an inter-State eight, and did much good
work as a rowing coach.
* * * *
“Backwoodsman”: Sydney now boasts
the only public bowling-green in Aus-
tralia. Opposite Fort-street school, near
the southern end of the Bridge, it has six
rinks and is open from 10 a.m. to dark,
Sundays excepted. There is a dressing-
shed, and lockers and bowls are pro-
vided. The charge is Is. 3d. per player
for two hours. The green is being run
by the City Council, and it is to be
hoped the council will make more of a
success of it than it has made of the
Moore Park golf course.


SUNDRY
SHOWS
“Tall Timbers” Showing.
Cinesound’s newest Australian produc-
tion’s “gala premiere” at Sydney Lyceum
suggested a good run ahead for
“Tall Timbers,” and the people con-
cerned deserve one. Director Ken Hall,
who spoke after the screening, was very
modest about the production, but less
so about a couple of others in the mak-
ing. His theme was: “We’re glad you
like this one—but wait till you see the
next.”
That as it may be ; “Tall Timbers” can
take care of itself. One thing that should
help it with Australian audiences is that
it is an authentic slice of Australia. The
Australian atmosphere is rarely forced,
false or spurious. Where the corns grow
hard on the hands from swinging the
Kelly and the Plum they may argue that
felling by the “drive” that is the film’s
big moment —just the thing for getting
rid of scrub timber —would be a surer
way of ruining a few million feet of
mill hardwood than anything the
machinations of the villains turn on.
“Strike me up a gum-tree,” they’ll be
saying round there, “that drive with the
trees only cut part through on one
side’d leave pretty well every damn’
stick down th’ ridge split up from the
scarf to the branches.” But the big
spectacle is none the less an unforget-
table patch of dramatic realism. It makes
the film ; lifts it right out of the ordi-
nary ; gives it unusualness and a charac-
ter of its own. To assess its full worth
it is necessary to imagine the picture
without it. Not a nice thought.; but it
would be a pretty carping critic who
faulted this part as effective film drama.
Acting is well up to requirements of a
story exploiting no great range of emo-
tions. Frank Harvey is a villain who is
also an authentic Australian bush type.
Frank Leighton is a trifle stagy, as
romantic heroes probably have to be, in
films as in the musicomedy in which he
graduated. Campbell Copelin has too
emphatic a personality ever to look any
other character than Campbell Copelin,
but at that always good. Harvey Adams
is admirably cast, which is more than the
stage people ever did for him, except
back in the dark ages of “Journey’s
End.” This showman would like to see
Shirley Ann Richards in something that
tested her dramatic range ; she is easy
on the eyes and looks a very promising
young lady. The other young lady of
the piece—Aileen Britton —does so well
as to leave no doubt that in her Cine-
sound has got hold of a good ’un.
“Quality Street ”
Franchot Tone and Katharine Hepburn.
“J. M. Barrie’s whimsical romance of
a minx on the trail of a man”—as the
show ads. have it. But it hasn’t been
worked out to any Barrie prescription—
not in this production. Barring the story
—which, of course, is inescapably Barrie
—the piece, as done, is delightfully Aus-
tenish, from the first glimpse of the three
old maids being shocked over a passion
scene read from a novel at Aunt Susan’s
right on to the proposal.
Just for a bit—as the dashing Captain
Brown is going off to the wars —one who
holds saccharine sentimentality in general,
and the Barrie brand of it in particular,
in hearty disfavor could be excused for
fearing the worst. It doesn’t happen.
Somebody of sense evidently stepped in
at this stage flourishing the Austen recipe,
and from there on increasingly it turns
from sentimental romance to undisguised,
faintly cynical and charmingly engaging
comedy of manners. In this treatment
there is something quite human about
even the stickybeaking old maids; some-
thing, in fact, perennially human about
everybody.
It is admirably acted. Franchot Tone
stands completely outside the part of the
gallant captain ; about as unsatisfactory
a figure of sentimental romance as could
be imagined, but pretty near perfect for
the purposes of quiet satire. The lady is
more Barrie-ish, but not enough so to
slop over. Indeed, her version of the
heroine holds a nice balance against
Tone’s refusal to get inside the part: if
she were as detached as he is the thing
would amount to outright burlesque.
Between them, and with the help of some
excellent support—every old maid might
have walked straight out of Jane
Austen’s pages—they make of it a nice
piece of entertainment, too human in
its comedy to be froth and too quietly
cynical to be sentimentality. At Sydney
Mayfair.
"Calling All Stars,” support at Sydney
Mayfair, is an English attempt to make
film entertainment out of vaudeville. It
can’t be done, but the effort has its
moments, among them a fine rendering
of “The Changing of the Guard” by the
heavyweight member of Flotsam and
Jetsam. A whirlwind roller-skating turn
in it would be a fair hair-raiser if seen
in the flesh.
4* 4* 4* 4*
"Super-Sleuth” presents Jack Oakie as
a swelled-headed screen detective who
thinks he can carry his role into real life.
Clark Gable, showing how the American variety of McShortodds operates on his
patients. The film — "Saratoga,” at Sydney St. James—has some capital glimpses
of horseracing on America’s dirt tracks.
Eduardo Cianelli, as a mad professor
who runs a sort of Madame Tussaud
show, spends most of his time in ambush
taking pot-shots at Jack. Oakie gets a
few laughs, but it is a labored business.
At Sydney Regent.
4*
“The League of Frightened Men," at
Sydney Capitol, is a detective thriller,
with Walter Connolly as the smooth and
rotund Nero Wolfe making easy work of
solving a couple of related murder mys-
teries and easing the fears of seven or
eight one-time schoolmates of the de-
ceased who think they have good cause
for expecting sudden death. Lionel
Stander as his offsider has had better
opportunities for exploiting his dry wise-
cracking comedy, but Connolly is Al.
♦b *1* v ►!*
“California Straight Ahead,” at Sydney
Lyric, has lanky John Wayne, who
seldom gets a star role these days, as
dominant partner in a nascent trucking
business, but after the decease of his
young associate, who went skyward with
a load of nitro-glycerine (thereby getting
John in bad with associate’s sister), he
goes to work for a millionaire trans-
porter (Robert McWade). An Italian
rival, as full of dirty tricks as a bagful
of monkeys, keeps the film interesting.
“Over She Goes."
Having had a good Melbourne run,
this breezy musicomedy brought George
Gee. back to Sydney at the Royal on
Saturday night. George will find Syd-
ney more changed since he was last here
than Sydney will find George. He has
come back in great fettle.
After the violent vulgarity of the
Marcus show, it is bright and pretty.
Also, there is none of that infliction
introduced by the Marcus people of
having microphones on stage to boost
up weak singing voices. The voices here
may be nothing remarkable, but at least
they are heard naturally without that sort
of distortion.
Gee has a tiptop solo turn, in addition
to being on stage pretty well throughout
the piece. He is the same Old Master
on the thin ice. Donald Burr and Percy
le Fre —completing the trio of ex-vaude-
villains —are newcomers Sydney will
have no trouble in taking to ; likewise
Valerie Hay and Billie Worth, who, with
that piquant little bit of fluffiness Lois
Green, make charming work of the femi-
nine comedy. William O’Neal is one of
the most upstanding specimens that ever
lifted a useful voice on a musicomedy
stage ; he should be able to make a little
on the side while the wrestling season is
still open. John Dobbie has all that’s
needed in the way of shape and other
attributes for a comic detective, and Ken
Tuckerfield, who also hadn’t previously
swum into this showman’s ken, gives a
police sergeant the form of a slender
principal boy and a smile that would
brighten up a tramload coming home
from the races. Enid Hollins and
Dorothy Dunckley do all that’s required
of them very well; Miss Hollins’s “Not
there, you fool,” in the blackout scene
will rock the house more thoroughly
when the show settles down properly.
Two or three of the chorus turns fairly
sparkle; that of the young ladies in bar-
rister wigs and cloaks and most un-
barrister-like revelations in white and red
when the cloaks are held wide open is as
neat as they make ’em. And they’re
dashed good-lookers.
RUBINSTEIN IN MELBOURNE.
Rubinstein was the principal cause on
Saturday of one of the most densely
attended, longest and most lavish orches-
tral concerts ever given in Melbourne.
The opening event was the first perform-
ance in Australia of the symphony by
William Walton, the young Englishman
who made his name with the choral
work “Belshazzar’s Feast.” Walton’s
work is long, remarkably elaborate and
less modern than traditional in form. He
manipulates a melody with charm and
presents one of the longest and most
thunderous finales in symphonic litera-
ture. After this achievement Bernard
Heinze wiped his brow and turned his
forces to the “Concerto Grosso” of
Vivaldi. The performance of this was
all that could be wished, and the audi-
ence brought the instrumentalists to their
feet.
Rubinstein’s appearance on the plat-
form for the Tschaikowsky Concerto in
B Flat Minor was the signal for an ova-
tion which left no doubt that Melbourne
likes its Rubinstein. In response to a
demand for an encore the soloist re-
sumed his seat and the audience waited
for the usual nice little sugary piece.
Instead it got the whole of De Falla’s
“Night in the Gardens of Spain,” lasting
approximately half an hour, with orches-
tra after piano in full bay. Before the
house was half-way to the doors he was
back on the piano-stool playing a cele-
brated Chopin polonaise so magnificently
that the audience changed its mind about
going home and began to settle down
again. This time it got a packet of
musical crackers fired off by the pianist
with his usual digital nonchalance.
4* 4* 4 1 •J'
MELBOURNE LIEDERTAFEL.
Liedertafel concerts in Melbourne have
tended to be “popular” without being
liked by the populace. The gentlemen of
the song table made amends at the Town
Hall last week. Programme was excel-
lent. Chorusmen under Frederic Earp
did justice to Liebe’s “Hymn of the
Goths” and a panel of Schubert songs.
There was a woolliness about the five
songs from the Greek Anthology by
Elgar, but the evening ended rousingly
to the sound of stamping feet with two
“Barrack-room Ballads,” with music by
Stock and McCall. Soloist was William
Hawting, who sang a recitative and air
from Bach’s “Peasant Cantata.” Those
two robust duettists, Victoria Anderson
and Viola Morris, sang a round dozen
so voluminously as to fill the hall like
a full choir. Raymond O’Connell, the
young pianist, played a Bach prelude and
fugue with a firmness and a tenderness
of touch far beyond his years.
•I* *1* *1*
SCHNEEVOIGT RETURNS TO SYDNEY.
Georg Schneevoigt’s penultimate • Syd-
ney concert drew the usual crowd to the
Town Hall and regaled it with Max
Bruch, Sibelius and Richard Strauss. The
Bruch G Minor Violin Concerto, an old
favorite, brought Sydney violinist Lionel
Lawson into the limelight. He proved
himself worthy of the rich orchestral
background.
Sibelius was represented by his Sixth
Symphony, perhaps the least popular and
most rarely heard of the Finnish com-
poser’s works. It is not so striking as
the other Sibelius symphonies to which
Schneevoigt has introduced Australia,
being a study in quiet hues. It would
have to be given many times before the
average audience could get much out of
it, but the beauty of the concluding pas-
sage, which somehow conveys the effect
of a varied landscape merging into a far
horizon, is Sibelius at his zenith.
“Ein Heldenleben,” a Strauss tone-
poem of the period when the composer
was able to back his consummate orches-
tral craftsmanship with moments of
soaring inspiration, was given a notable
performance. The landmarks by which
concertgoers steer their ears in this opus
—the sneering, trivial adversaries, the
hero’s luscious love affair and the crash
of battle—were made very convincing.
But, admitting its brilliance of orchestra-
tion and the magnificence of its purple
patches, this is a long, long work with
wide stretches of barren land between the
oases. Perhaps for this reason the A.B.C.
chose this number as its listeners’ share
of the entertainment. The box office
must be safeguarded.
•b -b *1* 4*
ADELAIDE SOCIETY OF ARTS’ SHOW.
In the spring show of Adelaide Society
of Arts, Max Ragless wins the award
for both ’scapes, with Torrens Gorge
and Second Valley Harbor, both bril-
liantly depicted. (He has a one-man
show meanwhile at Bayley’s gallery,
showing a bold and successful incursion
into water-color.) McGubbin has several
large pictures, in an evident experimental
vein, as between his father’s dim wood-
land style and his own dainty seascape,
or later rather hard manner. An un-
usual note is struck by one Gurney, a
South Australian sketching in Persia.
George Whinnen is as reliable as ever,
and Giles has one of his bold shipping-
in-harbor studies that need no signature.
Adelaide National Gallery has bought
a charming William Rowell, a forest on
a dark hillside; a fine head of old
Slapoffski by Ivor Hele (who is aban-
doning his original Norman Lindsay ob-
session) ; and a pleasing trifle by the
local T. H. Bone.
4*
J. W. TRISTRAM—PAINTER OF
ATMOSPHERE.
The first impression on walking into
J. W f Tristram’s show of water-colors at
Rubery Bennett’s Galleries, Sydney, is
that J. J. Hilder must have come to
life dgain, or that Tristram is an extra-
ordinarily successful copyist of the Hilder
style. But the boot is on the other leg.
Tristram, now a bit exceeding the
Psalmist’s standard span,, was a master
when Hilder was a student, and Hilder
has put his indebtedness to Tristram on
record. Tristram taught Hilder that the
most delicate beauties of water-color—
beauties that words are too clumsy to
express—can be evoked not when light
is a pitiless revealer but when it is a
kindly veil.
Twilight, moonlight, the dimly-glow-
ing radiance of dawn and sunset, the


j
j ■n
IWill
W^^tm
1111111
m
m
mm
■ tti
■
Sf.
I\
m
• V;;
■
Vi-
«*i» m
Wmm
■
34 Gardeners Road,
MASCOT.
To Messrs. William Arnott, Limited,
HOMEBUSH.
Dear Sirs,
I am sending you a photograph of our baby girl
Ruth, aged 12 months. She has been fed on
Arnott's Milk Arrowroot Biscuits since she was six
months old, and, thanks to them, is a very healthy
child.
I am,
Yours faithfully,
Mrs. R. Bryan.
During the past half-century over 40,000
photographs of strong, vigorous children
reared from the age of six months on
Arnott’s Famous Milk Arrowroot Biscuits have
been sent with testimonials by grateful
mothers to William Arnott, Limited.
Qmott!s
Famous
MILK ARROWROOT
BISCUITS
Always ask your Grocer for Arnott’s
“They are Better than Ever”
luminous pearly gauze of sea-mist —
these transform reality into romance and
enable Tristram to see what He calls
his “fantasies.” But they are not fan-
tastic, surrealist or imaginary. Tristram
can limn you a seascape, with headlands
receding one after the other, paler and
paler through mist, so faithfully that,
though there is not even an infinitesimal
variation of tone where sky meets sea,
the horizon is there as firmly and immu-
tably as if it were indicated by a one-
inch bar of solid black. He can paint y r ou
a twilight-softened landscape in which
details appear one after the other, just
as they do at that hour—the track
through the bush, the vaguely brighter
light on the hill and the treetops, the
wispy smoke of a matilda-waltzer’s fire,
just deserted. In such a picture as “Even-
ing after Rain” he can capture within a
small frame a new-washed world —
almost the smell of it.
SASSIETY
SHOW
This is where Sundray Shows goes all
jolly old uppah-class, what! All top-
hat and caviare and that sort of thing,
you know. Mixin’ in with the ballay old
uppah crustahs. Hobnobbin’ with Sas-
siety, what !
Well, no, perhaps not
altogether h o bnobbin’.
Not exactlay. Just takin’
a jolly old eyeful, so to
speak.
Tickets, you know.
The management will be
delaited. Spring fashion
revels commemoratin’ the
firm’s 97th birthday anni-
versaray. In which the
latest sparklin’ creations
from abroad will be dis-
played by leadin’ mem-
bahs of Sydney Sassiety’s
Younger Set. Admit
two.
Quuite crushin’.
Deuced awkward! Afternoon suit at
the ballay old clCanah’s. Shirt on Old
Rowley each way. No hope of borrow-
in’ stuffy old Archie’s spats with the
stiflin’ elections cornin’ on. Not a ballay
earthlay.
Still, very sportin’ about it, we must
admit. Let us in as we were. No jolly
old questions asked. Hardly ballay
well looked at us. Stiflin’ crowd, of
course. Quaite crushin’ in the jolly
old lift. Very sportin’ young woman
to take us under her wing, so to
speak. Squeeze us in somewhere. Come
Positively streamlined.
along. Ah, heah we are. Table fortay-
naine.
General impression: jolly old sit-down
strike by Sydney’s leadin’ matrons. Three
or four hundred, assorted. Positively
staggerin’ thought: all their absobeastly-
lutely fagged out breadwinnahs draggin’
themselves home after a tryin’ day in
the city, and nobody there to take their
boots off. Keepin’ the jolly old wolf
from the door at the Aus-
tralia, and so forth, and now
nobody at home! Have to
get their own champagne.
Crack the torrid old ice them-
selves.
Two and a half hours latah
spousies come trippin’ in
with daughtahs, uttahly done
in, what! Think of the nerve-
strain all the jolly old after-
noon —mothahs sittin’ there
takin’ afternoon-tea at the
hundred or two giddy old
tables ; daughtahs up on the
platform showin’ off all the
gladrags Sassiety will be
wearin’ this spring, unless, of course,
the seedy old plebs knock off usin’ soap
and socks and boot-polish and so forth,
and the jolly old family fortunes take
the knock.
No wondah they’re all ballay well done
in, what! No ovahtime on the jolly old
forehead, surelay, to imagine dramatic
climax with breadwinnah, spousie and
daughtah sittin’ jadedly round the chro-
mium-tipped roulette-wheel to decide
who’ll crank up the ballay old Rolls and
bump down to the corner for the ham-
burgahs for three.
Jolly sportin’ of the Youngah Settahs
to do it, of course. Proceeds to charity,
you know; in aid of one of those jolly
dumps where the ballay old stork still
calls occasionally.
And no flies on these Youngah Set-
tahs, either, so to speak. That giddy old
Marcus johnny knew when to up with
the hook and head for elsewhere. Ballay
stiff opposition this would have been,
what! Especially when the Youngah
Settahs did the walk in rubbah bathahs.
Positively streamlined.
No offence to jolly old Marcus’s
Lovelies and Peaches, of course. None
whatevah. Take any of them out our-
selves, and delaited. But honah where
honah is due, you know; and these jolly
old Youngah Settahs are not to be
sneezed at, Not at all. Very refained,
of course, and no very strong inclination
to burst out laughin’. In fact, a trifle
on the I’d-laik-you-to-tell-my-fortune-
but-I-have-no-silvah scene of the gipsy
person bein’ snubbed in “Wings of the
Morning.” Still, no strain on the ballay
old optics and quite up to the jolly old
Wally standard in deportment, what!
As for what these spifflin’ Youngah
Settahs were showin’ off—well, of course,
To decide who’ll crank up the ballay old
Rolls.
it may have been the stuffy old sausage-
and-mash we had for lunch roostin’ on
the ballay old gizzard, but, outside the
rubbah bathahs and a spot or two of
sporty outfits, we gathah that spring
this yeah is not going to
be altogether a yell, so to
speak. Rather on the re-
strained side, what! Very
smart, of course; but
none of those divaine out-
bursts in sunflowers and so
forth to enlaiven the mem-
bahs’ enclosuah at Rand-
wick. Tennis will be
rathah excitin’, and there
will be some naice. spots of what-
oh about the yachts on the jolly old
Harbor. Cocktail parties
will be a traifle arch, and
street hats a shade more
like saucepans and birds’
nests than evah. Trousahs
will be worn to the ankles
and evening-frocks to the
waist, so to speak. Bow-
ing to the ukase ■ of
scrubby old Spoonah, the
rubbah-bathahs will be
worn with skirts ; but, unless somebody
tells him in the meanwhile, jodhpurs, as
well as trousahs, will be worn without.
The show would not be completely
descraibed, of course, without some pass-
ing reference, so to speak, to the jolly
old astrologah, what! He appeared on
the platform not
unlike a rath ah
seventyish imita-
tion of Mr. Dun-
can Macdougall
in the part of
Whiskers Blake,
readin’ a scroll
about the stars
and how Woman
should dress her
divaine form ac-
cordin’ to their
ballay old guid-
ance. That’s the
ballay idea,
ladies! Look up
By the light of
astrologay.
your place in the jolly old heavens, and
dress by the light of astrologay.
And just before we step down from
these jolly old stilts, so to speak, if you
happen to be puttin’ on another show
for charity or what-not, with all those
toppin’ Youngah Settahs dressed accord-
in’ to their stars, send us a ticket and
we’ll be delaited, we assure you, especi-
ally if you can do us something in the
way of a few of the Youngah Settahs
born under surelay the most interestin’ of
the whole ballay old constellations—that
is, of course, if we may say so, Venus.


*
xS
l\\\W
V V,
mm-
*<ll**l
For full information and all literature on
Fiji write >
FIJI PUBLICITY BUREAU, Suva, Fiji
THOMAS COOK & SON, UNION
S.S CO. LTD., MATSON NAVIGA-
TION CO., Sydney & Melbourne
PICKFORDS TRAVEL SERVICE Clo.
Da'gety & Co. MR. F.W. HENNINGS;
Master Builders' Ex-change; 12 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, Australian Representative
of the Fiji Tourist Bureau.
OIONOUf
lnvisoralins
SuhsHiiWm
/Vo*#/ In FIJI
Across the sparkling waters of the
Pacific, Sunny Fiji - less than a
week’s journey from Sydney - bids
you welcome.
Step out of winter into the Sunshine
and Colour of the Tropics - For two
weeks or longer - a complete change
in the tropic isles of the South Seas.
Picturesque Island and Indian races
in the winding streets of Suva.
Mountain scenery and fascinating
Fijian villages along the 250 mile
motor road on lovely Viti Levu.
See, NOW, Sunny Fiji at her best.
You can revel in a month of roman-
tic glamour at surprisingly low cost.
Get full particulars and
plan your holiday now.
islmids o
I haven’t
slept so well
for months
Wk
sm&i
mi
■sm
WHEN you wake up in the
morning clear-eyed, vigorous
and gloriously refreshed, you
realise that a good night’s sleep
is one of the most important
things in life.
And it is so easy to ensure this
health-giving sleep every night.
Just drink a cupful of delicious
“Ovaltine” at bedtime. Because
it is remarkable in its power to
give you sleep—it renews your
energy and restores the whole
physical and nervous system to
glowing health while you sleep.
As a duty to yourself, adopt the
“Ovaltine” way to-night. But be
sure it is “Ovaltine” —there is
definitely nothing "just as good.
TRIAL SAMPLE of “Ovaltine,” suf-
ficient to make four cupsful, will be
sent on receipt of 3d. in stamps to
cover cost of packing and postage.
ou can always
relu on
Ovaltine
fora
good nights Sleep
Listen-in
Stations
Brisbane,
at 5.30
to the Ovaltiney Concert Party broadcast from
2GB Sydney, 3DB and 3LK Melbourne, 4BK and 4AK.
SAD, SPI and SMU Adelaide, 6IX and 6WB Perth,
p.m. every Sunday.
PRICES: 1/9, 2/10, 5/-. All Chemists and Stores.
A. WANDER LIMITED, 1 YORK STREET NORTH, SYDNEY.
038-18-37
FROM CHINA TO PERU.
Australia House recently advised aero-
nautical engineers in England that there
was a vacancy for one of them in Aus-
tralia provided he hurried his application
along to the Civil Aviation Department,
Melbourne, would take a temporary job
at £372 p.a. Australian and could show
experience in design, construction, equip-
ment and checking to British standards
of airworthiness. One wonders just how
many so-qualified engineers are looking
for a temporary job in Australia at the
sterling equivalent of less than £6 a week.
* * * =F
Somebody has recalled some remarks
of Stalin, made 12 years ago when
Zinoviev and Kamenev were demanding
Trotsky’s head: —-
One cuts off a head to-day, another to-
morrow and the day after to-morrow a
third. Then what remains of the party?
Since then Stalin has had Zin.’s and
Kam.’s heads and those of a thousand
other comrades, and he would have had
Trot.’s if Trot, hadn’t removed it across
the Pacific. Now he is even shedding
the blood of cooks and market gar-
deners.
*.*<**
Ella O’Shea and brother Pat took an
eyeful of Sydney in her spring glory off
with them to America. They report
Brisbane as having one of the brightest
seasons on record, and now they face
whatever big race meetings the Middle
West and California may offer. Pat is
chairman of the Queensland Turf Club,
and in addition has the inborn Irish pas-
sion for a good horse.
* * * *
Arnold Haskell, who was here with the
De Basil Ballet Co., and who has prob-
ably made pots of money with his books
on the ballet, has put still another on the
market. An advance copy of it came to
Australia a few mails ago. It deals with
the Australian tour of the company, and
is divided into three parts, each section
dedicated to two or more. The Daryl
Lindsays, Syd Ure Smith, Basil Burdett,
the Ernest Watts are a few of the names
to whom thanks are given. One section
of the book devotes itself to Australian
scenery (the decorative gum-tree gets
quite a pat on the bark) and to Austra-
lian art. And there’s nothing but a paean
of praise for the latter.
* * * v
The eight years’ odyssey of Arthur
Ordell, who left Sydney, seeking adven-
ture, in the sailing ship Parma, included
experience in a sealer in the Arctic with
a movie camera ; a spell with the Foreign
Legion fighting off the Riffs from the
railway line now crawling towards Tim-
buctoo ; escape from the Legion by swim-
ming to a British vessel; cattle-punching,
lumbering and rodeo-ing in U.S.A.; look-
ing after a string of racehorses in Eng-
land and France and running mules and
guns to Abyssinia. Ordell came back
to see his dad, the Tal Ordell who writes
sketches and tells yarns for the A.8.C.;
then he made off to an appointment with
a pal in Naples. Only 28 now, tall, tough
and sunbaked.
* * * *
“Zeter und Mordio” disagrees with a
professor:
Professor S. H. Roberts, the Sydney Uni. his-
torical oracle, thinks Hitler is a “myth
a man of intellectual confusion without bal-
ance.” I heard Hitler speak in Munich in the
early days of his rise. He is an astute plat-
form artist, reminiscent both in features and in
speech of the late Tom Ryan, of Queensland,
as he was at about the same age. He spoke
loudly, slowly and distinctly, with set gestures,
and he had the Ryan habit of leaving a point,
coming back to it and slowly and patiently
elucidating it all over again from another angle.
His language was simple and his issues clear —
a strong Germany for the Germans; only
a united and happy nation free of individual
worries and internal contentions could show
a bold and self-respecting front to the world.
The foreigner and the Communist were the dis-
rupters of Germany; the spearhead of refor-
mation was the “simple people,” the working
men, implementing a working man’s programme.
In pleasure-mad Berlin he was then a standing
joke. But in sober-minded, stable cities like
Munich, his influence was already great. Photo-
graphs fail to do justice to Hitler. He has fine
eyes and expressive hands, and the photo-
graphers always excise a scar on his forehead
which lends character to his face.
H* $ * *
“Ex-Highlander”: The kilt may be
generally an excellent recruiting medium
(B. 15/9/’37), but there is one historic
instance to the contrary. In 1810 there
was selected for service in N.S.W. a regi-
ment that had been raised as a second
battalion of the 42nd (Black Watch).
Later it was converted into an indepen-
dent unit, the 73rd, retaining, however, its
Highland tradition and the Black Watch
tartan. Some months prior to sailing,
the 73rd, unable to recruit sufficient men
in Scotland, marched over the Border to
beat up likely lads. Because of the Eng-
lish dislike of Highland garb, this met
with such scant success that the 73rd was
ordered to discard the kilt and assume
the conventional trousered dress of
British infantry. When the regiment dis-
embarked at Sydney Cove in 1812, it
had nearly a full complement. The 73 rd
retained their trousers for fully 70 years,
when they again became the Second Bat-
talion of the Black Watch and resumed
the old livery.
* # * +
“Porosus”: Down in Alabam’, where
they fry the niggers, the Tuscaloosa golf
club has solved the problem of ball-
stealing from a lagoon which crosses
several fairways. Hundreds of balls
weekly go into this trap, and, though the
club dredges for them, unauthorised small
boys collect the majority and resell the
pills to players. The club has, accord-
ingly, turned a hefty alligator into the
pond, and the small-boy nuisance is ex~
pected to abate itself automatically. Now
perhaps some Sydney clubs, the Lakes
particularly, will import old-man croco-
diles from N.Q.
* * * *
“Hoylake”: Times are changing. The
Royal and Antient club, till lately
deemed as immovable as the Bass Rock,
is being modernised so as to convert it
into a golf Board of Control for the
Empire at least. One of the changes, and
a drastic one, will be the appointment
of three non-members to the champion-
ship committee. These will be either pro-
fessionals or representatives of the
players for the bawbees, who have been
complaining they have no say in the
running of the open championship, in
which they play such an important part.
* * * *
“Third Base”: Harry Wolter, who
visited Australia as manager of the Stan-
ford University team in 1929, has
written asking whether an Australian
team can visit California in 1939 for a
mighty baseball tourney in connection
with the Golden Gate International Ex-
position. The idea is being chewed over,
but the cost of such a trip is a hurdle
which the hard-up baseball community
will find it hard to take in its stride.
“Forest Hills”: Dorothy Bundy, U.S.A.
champion! It wakes up old memories.
Miss Bundy is a daughter of the lady
who, as May Siitton, won the All-Eng-
land title as long ago as 1905, after tak-
ing the American championship the year
before. Ma staggered the old hands by
popping up as a member of the Ameri-
can Wightman Cup team in 1925, and
when she arrived at Wimbledon four
years later and got into the quarter-
finals there was some more staggering.
Doeg, winner of the American singles
in 1930, is a nephew.


The Richardson Chain Hotel
wm
THE
HOTEL
LONDON
99 Elizabeth St.,
(next Collins St.)
Melbourne
Hot and Cold
Water, Telephone
and Central Heat-
ing, Reading Lamp
to Every Bedroom.
MELBOURNE'S MOST
CENTRAL HOTEL.
RATES PER DAY.
Room and Meals .... from 12/6
Room and Breakfast . . from 7/6
Belvedere »*» Belvedere us-i Belvedere-. Belvedere «>>
ĵ
MADE BY
MARTIN, SONS & CO., LTD.,
HUDDERSFIELD, ENGLAND,
THE FOUNDERS OF THE WORSTED INDUSTRY.
m.
II
ii
I
\
»
Mi
wf § n # I I IYT r l>
* 44 4-
THE IDEAL OF ALL WELL-DRESSED MEN,
POSITIVELY
THE LARGEST RANGE OF EXCLUSIVE DESIGNS
EVER PRESENTED FOR MEN’S
Ql UTlKinc;
M' 1 BtLVCOtRt
Belvcoekc ■>»' Belvedere
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
In “Over She Goes” George Gee’s
dressing-gown, ivory in tone, with its
deep-blue satin collar and its em-
broideries of exotic life-size parrots, de-
serves honorable mention. All the ex-
citement attendant on a first night was
felt in the masses of people who surged
towards the circle and stalls. The
names of Sydney’s well-knowns. werie
broadcast as they entered the foyer, and
it was a very excited Moya Gee who,
just before the bell rang, stopped for a
moment to say a word or two into the
mike. In the audience nearly half the
women’s heads had their curl or curls.
These were worn high on the forehead,
running from north to south, or merely
bunched at the nape of the neck. Orchids
and tulips were the favorite flowers.
Ermine, mink and silver-fox capes
seemed the right accompaniment for
the quilted satins that overnight have
become so popular.
The party on the stage after the show
was a hilarious affair. George Gee at
the microphone was irresistible in his
“Yes, No” number, and soon everybody
was shouting it with gusto.
Mrs. George Gee wore a fox fur with
her ivory frock. Moya wore springlike
primrose Chiffons and a brocaded coat
in the same shade. Mrs. T. H. Kelly,
Mrs. Sep Levy and Mrs. Dick Allen all
wore orchids with their black frocks;
so did Mrs. Gwynneth Paul, whose frock
of black chiffon was covered with a
floral quilted satin coat. Mrs. F. J. Davy
pinned blue tulips in her pink satins ; Mrs.
J. E. Moreing wore red roses with her
deep blue crepes. Mrs. John Faviell’s
quilted satin coat had puff sleeves. Mrs.
H. E. Salenger’s Barbara was graceful in
pink chiffons ; Mrs. Elink Schuurman’s
coat was of ivory-and-gold brocade.
Sydney’s Mayoress was in gold satin,
Mrs. James Dickson’s net frock was
embroidered in huge white flowers, and
Mrs. E. J. Tait’s black laces had small
knots of white hyacinths running down
the front from neck to hem.
The interest that Lady Gowrie takes
in the Bush Book Club dates from the
time when her husband was Governor of
the State. In all the years, on its collec-
tion day, she has brought her contribu-
tion in person. This year illness pre-
vented her coming, but a parcel of 12
novels arrived, and a telegram wishing
every success. Fifteen hundred books,
200 magazines and the same number of
illustrated papers were the day’s takings,
and secretary Beulah Bolton and mem-
bers of the committee were still hard at
it at five o’clock, taking delivery and
sorting the contents of the parcels. An-
other absent friend who remembered was
Evans of the Broke. His contribution
included a copy of Exile and one of
Noel Howard. These and Lady Gowrie’s
books were on the table otherwise de-
voted to autographed works of various
Australian writers.
Dame Enid Lyons has a clothes
sense, and she makes a speech that
each listener feels and remembers as
an intimate little talk. To the wel-
come given her by the women members
of the U.A.P., she wore a sky-blue suit and
hat to match, and from the moment she
walked on to the stage at the Assembly
Hall her audience felt at home with her,
and listened intently to her chatty ac-
count of the Coronation tour. “Just like
our Hobart cabs,” was how she described
the carriage in which she and the P.M.
rode from Buckingham Palace to the
Abbey for the Coronation ceremony,
and she told of her pride in the Austra-
lian contingent when it joined the pro-
cession.
Her listeners saw through her eyes the
arrival of the peers and peeresses, the gor-
geous uniforms of the men, the magnifi-
cent dresses of the women, blazing with
priceless jewels. Her audience laughed
with her when she described “Joe’s”
clothes (“which he would, never dare
wear in Australia”), his white silk stock-
ings, his satin breeches and cocked hat
covered with ostrich feathers. They
heard about the scarlet academic robes
in which he received his honorary LL.D.
at Cambridge, and smiled at his dilemma
as to whether he should follow the
fashion of the men who wore their hats
with the tassel hanging down at the right
side, those who let it dangle at the left,
or just let it wobble around in front.
Helen Hughes, daughter of the Federal
Minister of Health and Dame Mary
Hughes, was buried at the Northern
Suburbs Cemetery on Friday. The
crowded church, in which were many of
her girl friends, the hundreds who waited
outside, and the thickly-lined route of
the funeral procession were evidence of
the sympathy extended to the girl’s
parents in their sorrow. There were
three carloads of flowers. One floral
token of remembrance was shaped like
a map of Australia, with a tin-hat in the
centre. This came from the soldiers at
Randwick Hospital.
The R.S.L.’s “V.C.” —its certificate of
merit —was presented at the ex-Diggers’
congress in Sydney to Dr. Mary Booth,
the lady who in the early years of the
war opened the Soldiers’ Club in Sydney.
Dymocks lent the building in George-
street where their present premises have
been built; it was one of Sydney’s old-
est hostelries at the time its license was
transferred. Dr. Booth’s work for sol-
diers, which has continued ever since the
war, deserved the R.S.L. recognition.
Some Diggers had embarrassing moments
at the old Soldiers’ Club, however, when,
advised to “see the doctor,” they found
the doctor was a woman.
Dayne made this portrait of Mrs.
Alan McGregor, hon. treas. of the Pastel
Ball, which will take place at the Troca-
dero on Tuesday. At this dance all the
women will wear pastel-colored frocks,
and the decorations will be carried out
in the same soft shades. Proceeds go to
the Industrial Blind Institution, William-
street.
Friends and admirers of Charles Bryant
filled Anthony Horderns’ Fine Art Gal-
lery for the opening of the memorial
exhibition of his works. In a few words
painter Lister Lister limned a picture of
the small boy of eight who was brought
to his studio for lessons in art, the first
of which he had in the company of a
class of men. But Mr. Lister, thinking
how small he was to be with the men,
asked him to come on another day.
When the youngster came and saw a
class of women, he looked at Mr. Lister
and just smiled. Soon he was back with
the men.
Charlie’s sister Alice had brought from
their garden at Manly the azaleas, Ice-
land poppies and deep-red roses that
filled the room with fragrance. Nancy
Welsh, who had come down from
Orange especially to be present, brought
wallflowers from her home, Nandillyan.
Charlie’s brother Marcus and his wife
helped to receive the visitors. These
were mainly made up of Sydney artists,
who thought they would drop in for a
few minutes, but many of them were
still there at five o’clock. Herbert R.
Marriner, hon. sec. of the Manly Art
Gallery and Historical Collection, came,
very proud of the fact that Manly’s Gal-
lery owns Lawson Balfour’s portrait of
the artist, who was one of its founders.
Banker Reg Black was another who
came. His friendship with the dead
artist dates back to the time when, as
boys, they both found employment in a
bank. Mrs. Harry Twigden brought Mrs.
George Wilson, of Auckland. Artist Joe
Wolinski, Judge Backhouse,, Howard
Hinton, Mr. and Mrs. Mervyn Thomas,
Mrs. W. J. Scammell, the A. C. Thomas
couple, Mrs. Garnet Halloran, Dr. and
Mrs. Huff Johnson, Enid de Loitte, Trix
Tange, Hanke and the Sherman couple
were others glimpsed during the after-
noon.
Here is Theresa Ward, only daughter
of Maoriland’s baronet Cyril Ward and
his lady. That makes her a grand-
daughter of Enzed’s Joseph Ward on
the one side and of Brisbane’s J. H.
Davidson on the other. Theresa and
her mother, who have been holidaying
in Sydney, left last week for Brisbane to
visit relations, but will be back again in
time for the races. Monte Luke made
the picture.
Those who were at the party given for
Sir Richard Terry by the Teachers of
Speech Assoc., feel now that they needn’t
be ashamed to open their mouths wher-
ever they may find themselves. In effect,
he said we did open our mouths —es-
pecially the women, whom he found
never mumbled, although the Australian
man sometimes did. “The Australian
accent,” this Trinity College London
authority seems to consider not worth
our worrying about for, after all, he
said, “the people who run down the Aus-
tralian speech most severely are Austra-
lians themselves.” He went on to say that
all living languages are subject to change
and flux, and that in time a standardis-
tion of speech would come about, and
that he himself liked our open vowels.
As an Oxonian, he warned everybody
against the so-called “Oxford accent,”
saying there was no such thing ; that the
canard had its birth in the Victorian
age of tea-sipping curates, smoking caps
and antimacassars.
The party was a foregone success from
the moment Lawrence Campbell and his
wife welcomed the guests at the door of
the drawing-room of the Carlton. Harry
Thomas brought his sister Mary in trail-
ing green laces. Lucille Bruntnell wore
black velvet, the basque of her coat bor-
dered with nice plump rosebuds. Marie
Boyers, the hon. sec., was in pink satin
and a short white fur coat. The G. de
Cairos Rego couple, Grace Stafford,
Elsie Dumolo and Lute Drummond were
among the interested. Before the party
broke up, Sir Richard congratulated Alice
Prowse on her singing and Josephine Bell
on her playing. Enid Conly played her
husband’s (Clem Williams) accompani-
ments to a group of aboriginal songs.
These have been collected and translated
by Dr. Lethbridge, and the music is by
Arthur S. Loam. Dr. Lethbridge was
taught these songs when a child by the
aboriginals in the Maranoa district (Q.),
and when he heard there were to be
records made of them he came down to
see that Mr. Williams had the right pro-
nunciation. The records have been sent
to Germany to be broadcast. For those
interested this Letter would say that there
is a phonetic guide to the pronunciation
of the aboriginal words on the front
page of the collection.
The Henri Segaert couple left for
Siam (where hfe is to be Minister for
Belgium) in the Nieuw Zeeland, taking
with them the good wishes of their many
Australian friends. The Consular Corps
went in a body to wave them good-bye,
and Mrs. M. Tyson came all the way
from Hay to cheer the departing ones.
Daughters Mrs. Frazer Coss and Mrs.
Andre Brenac were early arrivals, and
small grandchildren Paul and Jean
Brenac were too excited over their rolls
of streamers to be bothered with any-
thing else. Only the sailing of the ship
put an end to the stream of messengers
with flowers and telegrams that from
early morning had climbed the gangway.
Spring flowers, daffodil, primrose, rose,
iris, orchid and buttercup, met the eye
at every point at the A.I.F. Ball. Girls
wore them in their hair, women carried
them, and almost every table was decked
with them. The rich dressing and spark-
ling jewels of the women and the scarlet
and blue mess uniforms of the men gave
an added brilliancy to the night. It was
in the vestibule of the Trocadero, just
near a huge bowl of azaleas, that Lady
Wakehurst slipped off her black-and-gold
brocade coat. Her dress was silver,
sashed in cherry velvet.
There was the usual fanfare of trumpets,
and the vice-regal party was piped to its
table. Here, with a background of Aus-
tralia’s flag and the Union Jack, the
Governor and Lady Wakehurst received
24 debs. All wore white, very spreading
as to skirt. Their haloes, tied under
their chins with silver ribbons, looked
from the front like poke bonnets. Each
had a soldier escort. Mrs. C. A. Burnet
was the matron of honor. With her frock
of lilac organza she carried a posy of
red roses and lilac. Sam Walder’s lady,
president of the ball committee, added a
sash of gold and leaf-green chiffon to her
black lace frock. Captain and Mrs. C. A.
Scott, Sydney’s Mayoress squired by her
husband, Alderman George Parkes, and
Colonel and Mrs. Lorenzo were in this
group; so were Brigadier-General and
Mrs. Rosenthal. Mollie Walder’s ivory
marquisette, patterned in silver flowers,
was worn over white taffeta. Mrs. F. J.
Davy was in old-rose and gold-striped
satin. Roslyn Macarthur Onslow chose
rose-pink satin ; Jocelyn Poynter, cloth
of silver. Mrs. H. Carter was in black
velvet; Shiela Chaffey’s white crepe frock
was worn with a white velvet wrap. Mrs.
Sidney Baume’s dark head was attrac-
tive over bronze taffetas. Mrs. John P.
Taylor danced in amethyst crepes, and
purple anemones glowed on Mrs. F. W.
Taylor’s ivory satins.
Miss Sarah Hynes’s 68th birthday cele-
bration at the Forum Club was one of
last week’s gayest parties. Telegrams
and congratulatory messages from all
over the State were received by the little
hostess, who wore her favorite green
orchids and a navy-blue frock finished at
the neck and wrists with crisp organdie
frills. Ruth Beale was one of the speech-
makers, and, apropos of Ruth’s mention
of Miss Hynes’s ability to do things,
Miss Hynes told the story of the couple
who came to her one night demanding
that she marry them. In vain she said
she couldn’t. “You’re a J.P., aren’t you?”
said the man. “Well, of course you can,
but I suppose you won’t.” “All right,”
said Sarah, “I’ll get a High Court Judge’s
opinion on the matter.” No response to
the first number she rang ; the second
number brought the reply: “Send the
man to the ’phone.” Then, “Miss Hynes
can’t marry you, young man. If she
did, you wouldn’t be married!” There
was an exciting moment or two at the
end of the party when it was thought
there wouldn’t be room for Miss Hynes
and the flowers in the Storey lady’s car,
but eventually she drove off, almost
smothered in blooms.


ESTABLISHED 1834
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED
WITH WHICH IS AMALGAMATED
THE BANK OF VICTORIA LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND .. 4,300,000 0 0
(Used wholly in the business.)
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
Directors:
James Ashton (Chairman); Edward R. Knox; Owen E. Friend:
Sir Wm. Vicars, C.8.E.; Orwell Phillips.
General Manager: C. Darvall.
HEAD OFFICE: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout New South Wales,
Victoria, Queensland, South Australia, and Canberra, F.C.T.
Agents throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
Jk
\
n
WAKE UP ! !
BARTZ
and
take
Nature’s Salts of the Earth
Drugs are only a temporary
relief, but BARTZ, the
IMPROVED MINERAL
SPRUNG TONIC SALTS, is
Nature’s own remedy for
excessive fat, headaches,
rheumatic pains, sleepless-
ness, giddiness, high blood
pressure, constipation, liver,
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1315 of 1937.
BETWEEN PHYLLIS ETHEL REED Peti-
tioner
And AMBROSE JOHN REED Respondent.
TO AMBROSE JOHN REED formerly of Lis-
more in the State of New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said PHYLLIS
ETHEL REED has commenced a suit against
you in this Honorable Court and is applying
for a dissolution of marriage on the grounds
that you have committed bigamy with adultery
with ROSE VIOLET FRENCH AND TAKE
NOTICE that you are required to enter an
appearance to the said suit at the proper office
of this Honorable Court on or before the
ninth day of December One thousand nine
hundred and thirty-seven and in the event ol
your not doing so within the time limited or
obtaining further time the Petitioner will pro-
ceed and the suit be heard and determined youi
absence notwithstanding. A copy of the peti-
tion filed herein may be had on application
to the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this Twentieth day of SeptemtM,
a.d. 1937.
For the Registrar,
(L.s.) E. F. LENNON,
Clerk in Divorce.
SPENCER W. CRAWFORD, Solicitor for
the Petitioner, 133 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Melbourne
Chatter
Subdued excitement, the murmur of
which is heard as the biggest racing
season of the year draws nearer, was
evident at the Valley for the last Sep-
tember meeting. The race of the day,
the A. V. Hiskens Steeplechase, memorial
to one of Australia’s most respected rac-
ing men, was watched by Mrs. Hiskens
and her daughters—Mrs. Harold Ander-
son, wearing a grey tailored suit and
small brown hat, and Mrs. Ron Irving,
also in a grey suit with a green scarf
knotted in cravat fashion. Mrs. Buffer
Allan was accompanied by Mrs. Chap-
man,, Innes Gould that was, an all-in-
brown visitor from M.L., Captain Wil-
braham paraded the lawns with his um-
brella hooked over his wrist. He seldom
leaves this protector at home at Govern-
ment House when there’s a wisp of rain
cloud on the horizon. The Harold Lux-
tons and Mary, grown tall and of perfect
build for tailored coats, were greeted at
their first race meeting since returning
from abroad.
A nice-looking pair of sisters were
Gwenda and Moira Byrne, Gwenda in
black with a stiff white bow of skyscraper
inclinations upon her tall hat. Mrs.
Harry Mcßoberts was noticeable for the
fashionable blue wash in her white hair.
Olive Kerr wore black, clasped at the
neck with a brooch of hammered gold.
Mrs. Lindsay Plant’s jacket was a large
draughtboard design in blue and white
checks. Marnie Clark, just back from
a ski-ing holiday at Bogong, was in
tweeds, and Mrs. Biff Montgomery chose
a green frock to go under her brown
coat. At the end of the day the Ginner
Greys were rejoicing, for Mrs. Ginner
had won so much money that she
couldn’t shut her bag.
Instead of galloping hooves there were
twinkling sandals and dancing pumps at
the Valley last week, when the Oaklands
Hunt Club held a ball in the dining-
room of the Moonee Valley Racing Club.
The place simply blazed with daffodils.
Alister Clark, who grew them and has
worked out their evolution for genera-
tions, received a lot of flattering remarks
in the right spirit. Charlie Taylor, whose
halo of white hair marks him as one of
the old school, though his heart’s as
young as that of a two-year-old thor-
oughbred, danced through the night with
“huntin’-gals” of a couple of later gener-
ations. Master of Oaklands Judge
Magennis, with sister-in-law Chris
Walker deputising for Mrs. Magennis,
saw that everyone had a rollicking time
and found somewhere to sit at the long
supper-tables. Hunting songs were sung
lustily on a layer of turkey and salad,
and swilled down with coffee and stronger
brews from bottles.
Saturday had its traffic jambs round
about Prince’s Bridge and Flinders-street
railway station, for 88,000 had spent the
afternoon at the final of the League foot-
ball, and as a result passed Sunday suck-
ing cough jubes, for their voices had
gone in the thunder of barracking. Faint-
ings were numerous and kept the casualty
stations working at such top pressure that
the ambulance folk couldn’t keep up
with the scores and missed most of the
grand free fight which happened as part
of the preliminary with the “seconds.”
Other attractions were the Show, Satur-
day the big day, and the Moonee Valley
races. Among the hundreds of Geelong
people who motored up or took one of
the ten special trains to see Geelong kick
their way to victory were the Stan
McMillans, of Inverleigh, and bachelor
Norman Belcher.
When the P. and O. Co. gives a party
it never spoils the ship for a hap’orth
of tar, so there were lashings of every-
thing for its hundredth birthday celebra-
tion in the Mooltan last week. The
flowers alone must have gobbled up a
large slice of cash. Even the women
guests were decorated at the expense of
the firm. Huge floral baskets, the sort
for which admirers of stage stars pay
pounds to have handed over the foot-
lights, were here, there and everywhere.
Reception-room pillars were garlanded
as when the ancient Romans made high
holiday. No expense had been spared
to make the atmosphere truly gala.
Although there were nearly one thou-
sand people on board, there was such
an abundance of caviare and pate de fois
gras that they failed to devour the lot,
and dodging the drink-trays was a despe-
rate business. Novelty of presentation
gave a spot of decoration to the buffet
tables. Hearts were scooped out of
spring cabbages and orange-colored
pumpkins to make a place for piles of
sandwiches.
For this shipboard gala the women
should have been in carnival clothes, but
they came on board in a rainstorm. In
a sea of heads hatted in black the Vene-
tian red toque of Mrs. Fred Dennett and
Mrs. Rupert Downes’s cherry felt were
a joy to behold. The silver foxes had
another day out, but nothing surpassed
the grandeur of the capes worn by Mrs.
C. R. Duncan, who as wife of the assist-
ing manager acted as one of the host-
esses, and Mrs. Alfred Bright. Mrs.
Colin Chisholm’s furs were hung up with
purple orchids. Mrs. K. Oliver, spring-
coated in grey, topped classic curls with
a cute little hat of claret velvet. Young
Judith Burston, with her Trilby bob, at-
tracted attention by the contrast of her
simplicity in the midst of sophistication.
Charlie Wenman and his wife centred a
lively group in which figured Sheila Shan-
non, who has promised to marry Bill
Castles at Colombo at the end of the
year.
Good horses and competent riders are
on their mettle this week in the arena
of Melbourne Showground. Catherine
Neylon, pictured here by Broothorn, is
one of the many equestriennes who
merit admiration for her appearance in
the saddle as well as her horsemanship.
Her particular interests in the ring events
at the Show are centred upon her own
exhibit, a two-year-old filly which she
bred herself, and in riding competitions
in which she was mounted on Lorna
Embling’s horses, Hughie over jumps and
Santo on the flat. Miss Neylon, who is
the only daughter of Mrs. M. Neylon,
studied fencing while she was abroad,
and reached a high standard at this diffi-
cult art and exercise. She is also pro-
ficient in foreign languages.
Entrance to Ewell, the William Par-
burys’ home, for the reception held after
the wedding of Rosalind Parbury and
lan Aitchison, was a slow -tempo cere-
monial for the guests, all 400 of whom
seemed to arrive at the same time and
sorted themselves out in Wallace-avenue
to form a queue reaching right round into
Toorak-road. The marital link was
welded at St. John’s, with the tall slender
bride all in white and her ’maids, Joyce
Hayden Smith and Phyllis Timmins,
brunette and blonde respectively, wearing
green as pale as the first glimmer of
spring leaves on elms and poplars.
Among bright speeches punctuated by
the popping of champagne corks were
witty bits of philosophy from Tom Maid-
ment and Mick Henty. The last-named,
a confirmed bachelor, says he remembers
all about the days when William Par-
bury was winning the heart and the hand
of the lady who afterwards became Mrs.
Parbury. Wedding presents and Rosa-
lind’s trousseau, acquired with thoughts
centred on the climate of Madras, are
now being packed in many cases and
trunks, for the bride and ’groom set sail
for their home in India on October 12.
“Monday for health, Tuesday for
wealth, Wednesday the best day of
a 11”.... Thus the old rhyme still per-
suades the majority of brides to fix their
weddings on Wednesdays. But Elizabeth
Dutton Green and George Draffin have
become firm barrackers for “Monday for
health,” and bells will ring for them next
Monday at Christ Church, South Yarra.
Their wedding was to have been in July,
but Elizabeth succumbed to a severe
bout of influenza and was afterwards
packed off on a sea trip to recuperate.
Bridegroom hails from Sydney, and his
bride (whose photo, is by Athol Shmith)
is the only daughter of the S. Dutton
Green couple, of Caroline-street.
It didn’t matter much if the tickles
that linger from winter coughs in even
the best regulated throats got the better
of the cold-owners at the Celebrity Con-
cert on Saturday night, for the William
Walton Symphony which filled the pre-
interval section was so noisy that it
threatened to blow the roof off. The
medical profession is definitely “going
in” for music with pertinacity and en-
thusiasm. Among its members present
were the Ivan Maxwells, Mrs. Maxwell
wearing furs with her gown of softest-
pink brocade ; the Ewan Downies and
Marsh Renou, who almost got locked
out, for they arrived so late ; the John
Shaws and Dr. and Mrs. Jock Williams.
Mrs. Williams wore black satin and small
white lacquered flowers upon her tunic
corsage. The Harry Shannons, Mrs. Cliff
Rosefield and Mrs. Fred Gamble were
also present, and Mrs. Harry Emmerton
was there with her diamonds and ermine.
Rubinstein is a most generous artist with
his encores. With the audience halted
at various stages of egress he played two
solos at the end of the programme. For
these Prof. Heinze curled up into nothing-
ness, sitting on the conductor’s stool and
trying to efface himself behind the up-
lifted lid of the concert grand.
Last week Scott’s Hotel gave a party
that involved several hundred drinks in
honor of its hundredth birthday. The
cup that cheers the mind and warms the
cockles of the heart was “on the house”
for all and sundry between 5 p.m. and
6 p.m. Some lads coming away after a
few “quick ones,” during which they
had gathered the information from the
Lord Mayor’s speech that the block on
which Scott’s stands was sold 100 years
ago for £46, walked out into the bluster-
ing wind to get the shock of their lives.
They felt all right, and were pretty sure
that they were walking steadily, but here
were two young women each wearing
two hats. The alarm was only momen-
tary, for the girls were real, and the hats
real enough as any hats of to-day, for
twins upon the head are the newest and
maddest byway of millinery hysteria. The
midget pair sit unsteadily over each ear,
are clasped together by ribbon or elastic,
and sometimes share a mesh face veil.
Arthur Henderson, the British M.P.
who came to Australia in connection
with the Peace Conference, has gone over
successfully with the young, who because
they are young are not always frivolous.
He is aged 44, and showed ready wit in
dealing with the few insurgents who gave
a peppering up to the large audiences
he had in Melbourne. Mr. Henderson
orated up and down Maoriland, and
before he leaves for England and head-
quarters in Geneva will have spoken in
all the Australian States. Contrary to
some folks’ impressions he is not a paci-
fist ; he went through the last war with
credit, and is willing, if his country needs
him, to go through another.
Katherine Balmer writes from London
that her marriage to Dr. John Franklin
will take place on October 29. Dr.
Franklin is a dermatologist and an
honorary at the same hospital in which
Katherine has spent the last year as a
resident. Her previous medical experi-
ence was two years in Brisbane General
Hospital, to which she was appointed
after having graduated in Melbourne.
She went to England as ship’s surgeon
on a Norwegian cargo ship carrying some
15 passengers, and had not one patient
all the way, though the vessel suffered
a collision in harbor. Perhaps the sturdy
Norsemen were awed at the .young Aus-
tralian’s femininity and kept their ills to
themselves. Not that Katherine is a
pattern of frigid dignity. She is gifted
with looks of the tall, fair, slender type
and has a particularly gracious manner.
Her home town is Bendigo. She and
her fiance are at present searching for a
flat in London.
Lewis Lewis, son of the Benson Lewis
couple of Sandringham, announces by
cable and air mail to his parents that
he is betrothed to Marya Elizabeth
Limner, of Lincolnshire, England. Lewis
is travelling round the world, the map-
ping of his routes depending upon the
locality of mines and smelting factories,
but the dust of such places doesn’t mean
that there is no color about his trip. In
Salt Lake City he jumped to fame as a
front-page news splash in one of the
local dailies. When he signed his re-
peater name in the register a reporter
lurking near by jumped to the conclu-
sion that the Australian visitor was so
dizzy at the interesting features of the
Mormon stronghold that the pen had
stuck in his hand like a needle upon a
cracked gramophone record. At Trail,
in Canada, Lewis came face to face with
Commander Spencer and his third wife.
The Commander was the Duchess of
Windsor’s first husband.


For something new in
travel service and days
packed with thrills go to
Europe and return via
247 George Street, Sydney
59 William Street, Melbourne
Canadian Pacific Rly• Co., Inc. in Canada
At your request we
shall be pleased to
forward Folder No. 61.
m
t, j
S£.J§
Plan now for your Christmas vacation—a
delightful tour of the East. To enable you
to fully appreciate your holiday, we take
you by way of interesting ports along a
smootn water route. You will enjoy
delightful days of cruising on sheltered
waters inside the Great Barrier Reef,
calls at Thursday Island and Darwin and
the trip across the Timor Sea to Java, the
"Garden of the East."
Complete with every modern conveni-
ence, the m.v. "Merkur" and t.s.s.
"Marella" sail regularly from Melboyroe,
Sydney and Brisbane to Java and
Singapore.
BURNS, PHILP
& CO. LTD.
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
TELEPHONE: B 7901
128 ADELAIDE ST. t BRISBANE. 312 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
31 GRENFELL ST. t ADELAIDE. 332 LAMBTON QUAY, WEL'GTON, N.Z.
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
“Mataranka”: A strange story went
the rounds of Darwin that H.M.A.S.
Sydney, which has been on a visit to the
north coast, engaged in a treasure hunt
off the Montalivet Group at the request
of the Westralian Government. The
Defence Minister and the W.A. Premier
both appeared to have blank minds on
the subject, but the Darwin “Standard”
reported that when the ship left port
her personnel, from the captain to the
ratings, was agog with excitement. The
treasure was supposed to be contained
in the wreck of an old Dutch ship, but
what it was doing down there loaded
with doubloons nobody seems to know.
However, no bell bottoms were heard to
jingle when the expedition returned.
* * * *
“Ek Dum”: Townsville West State
school celebrated its 50th anniversary
with the issue of a historical booklet
and a promise from the Government that
it will soon be housed in a new building.
In its first 30 years of existence, the
school outgrew its original patchwork
building and a new schoolhouse had to
be put up. Townsville West became the
third-largest school in the State with
nearly 1200 pupils, and has again become
too big for its accommodation. Some of
the pictures in the school history mirror
the great changes in living standards of
the North in the last half-century. There
are early groups of pupils, unkempt of
locks and garments and some apparently
suffering from undernourishment, to
place side by side with those of modern
scholars well dressed, trim of hair, in-
telligent and in every way a fine adver-
tisement for the North and its economic
conditions. Many pupils have taken
prominent positions in the life of Aus-
tralia—among them Gladys Moncrieff
and Percy Pease, Deputy-Premier of
Queensland.
* * * *
“Kaloa”: The honor of being the first
to climb the Father Mountain, Nakanai,
New Britain, in the New Guinea mandate,
goes to Doctor C. Stehn, the visiting
Dutch vulcanologist, and N. H. Fisher.
The Father is a volcano, still alive, 7400
feet high at the lip of the crater, which is
about 350 metres by 250 metres across,
though its active part is much smaller.
Previous attempts to conquer the moun-
tain had failed. The sides are over-
grown and difficult, and continual rain
helps to make it a harder proposition to
tackle than many a mound several thou-
sand feet higher.
* * * *
“Zedo”: The latest Japanese pearling
lugger to be arrested by the Larrakia was
found near Folsche Rock, Bremer Island,
in the Carpentaria Gulf and a long way
from the pearling grounds. She turns
out to be a new ship only three months
in commission, and one of a fleet of 59
operated by her owner. There are now
125 Japanese pearling vessels working
the Aru Sea.
* * * *
“X.T.”: At the rate it is changing,
Brisbane’s own grandmother will soon
find difficulty in recognising it. Up till
the outbreak of the war it was a blaz-
ing tropic town in which the conven-
tional homes were wood and galvanised-
iron boxes and the city buildings rarely
rose above three storeys. In the centre
stood the dingy Normal School in a waste
of grassless playground, and trees and
modern pavements were the exception
rather than the rule outside the mile
radius from the post office. The new
Town Hall in Albert-square and Gov-
ernment buildings and the soldiers’
memorial which have replaced the
Normal School and its adjacent spaces
form the nucleus of an imposing civic
centre, and it is now proposed to widen
the narrow Isles-lane which faces the
memorial so as to form a city square,
at one end of which would be the new
post office. And in suburbs brick and
stucco are replacing weatherboard and
iron everywhere.
* * * *
“Nothung”: On a certain map I see
marked all the pubs of the Queensland
north-west: Nicholl’s Hotel on the
Flinders, Cowan Downs Hotel and Yad-
thor Hotel on the Cloncurry, Brook’s
Hotel near Burketown, to name but a
few. And there, right on the Gregory
(on Thornton Creek, to be precise), the
“Hey, cut that out—y might ’it Elijah .”
Pioneer Hotel. It looks as if the litho-
grapher dropped his courage there, or
thought that someone would saddle his
nag and go there hell-for-leather for a
spot, because he follows it with
“(closed).” Considerate of him. There’s
nothing more calculated to rile a fellow
than to arrive at a pub and find it closed.
* * * *
“Colonel Bungstarter”: A hundred
years ago from August, Andrew Petrie,
a hard-bitten, competent, Scots ex-n.c.o.
of Royal Engineers, was transferred
from Sydney, where he had been on the
Establishment for a couple of years as
foreman of works, to Brisbane. Forti-
fied by this experience of colonial ad-
ministration as practised under military
control, he gazed round the little settle-
ment with a dour Scots smile, performed
a few mechanical miracles and put Bris-
bane into working order. After building
himself a fine house on a rocky height
at the present intersection of Queen and
Creek streets (where, in later years, he
entertained Leichhardt, among other ex-
plorers) he explored Queensland up to
where Maryborough now is, discovered
the bunya pine and its timber value,
brought back Duramboi, the white black-
fellow, to Brisbane and founded a family
of noteworthy Queensland citizens, who
still carry on the ancestral tradition of
honest dealings and no nonsense.
"Australia Jane's" Budget
Cupid has been so busy of late that
he must be almost out of arrows. New
engagements are those of Nell, daughter
of the A. W. Rudds, of Clayfield, to
Edwin, son of Mr. and Mrs. F. J. Purdy,
of Longueville, Sydney ; Heather, daugh-
ter of the Abi Murrays, to Dr. Charles
Lawrie; and Burrie King, of Cunna-
mulla, to Winifred Buzacott, Strathfield,
Sydney.
Minister for Transport Dash and his
wife gave a lunch at Parliament House
in honor of Alma Simpson, who is to
marry James McCormack, of Merino
Downs, Surat, early in November. Table
decorations were lovely—all the flowers
that bloom in the spring, very beauti-
fully arranged.
Rotary members are gathering £lOOO
for a swimming pool at the Montrose
Home for Crippled Children. To help,
Mesdames C. H. Bennett, A. E. Axon
and G. G. L’Estrange gave a bridge
party, and filled the room with nastur-
tiums, Iceland poppies and watsonias.
A batch of Queenslanders went off in
the Nieuw Zeeland bound for Singapore
and Colombo, including Mr. and Mrs.
Edwin McKenzie, of Southport, Mar-
jorie Kent, of Jondaryan, and her friend
Lola Rouse, of Toowoomba, Mrs. and
Miss Porter, of Augathella, and the
A. J. A. McWilliams, of Alfalfa, Ley-
burn. Most of them intend to return to
Australia in the Orcades.
Mrs. E. A. D. Amos, president of the
Lyceum Club, was at-home to members,
and a large party gathered round the
tables, which were gay with golden
flowers. Miss J. M. Hart, who was
matron of Rosemount Repat. Hospital,
and who now holds down a similar job
in Sydney, was among the guests, and
Mrs. Bruce Shearer was welcomed after
her trip abroad.
Repertory players are thrilled with the
news that George Dann won first place
in the recent competition organised by
the Independent Theatre, Sydney, with
his play “No Incense Rising,” and they
gave a supper party in his honor after
the Repertory meeting. Same night, one
of his plays was included in a programme
of one-acters.
Bundaberg boasts a young, handsome
and unmarried Mayor, member of one
of the town’s oldest families. He is F. H.
Buss, and when Garnet Goodwin and
Jessie Hunter were married at Christ
Church, Bundaberg, he was best man.
A few days before the ceremony, he
gave a party in honor of the soon-to-be-
weds and of another engaged pair, Peggy
Adams and Lawrie Connor, whose mar-
riage took place on September 25.
The Fred Eagers’ new yacht, Tanga-
looma, was christened in style. One hun-
dred guests were entertained in Crow-
ley’s boatshed, which was decked with
flags and pennons. Mrs. Eager wore
delphinium blue with a shoulder yoke
threaded with wine, cream and brown
ribbons.
One of the most unusual of five-to-
seven parties ever given in Brisbane was
that staged at the National by Mr. and
Mrs. Albert Barber in honor of Mrs.
Barber’s sister, Mrs. H. Hamilton, up
from Melbourne with her two daughters-
in-law, Mrs. lan and Mrs. Ken Hamil-
ton. The savories were served in a silver
dachshund, a scarlet crab and a com-
placent-looking duck. Silver baskets of
red roses helped the effect. Mrs. Barber
wore navy and white sheer and Mrs.
Hamilton navy georgette.
Amateur theatricals are wonderful for
matchmaking. Jack Lynam and Darley
Cooper, who were married early in Sep-
tember, are members of the Shakspeare
Society, and the bride has played several
times with Repertory. Bridegroom is
secretary of the social committee of the
Victoria Park Golf Club.
Arley Tait and Mary Douglas gave a
huge tennis party in aid of the Crippled
Children’s Home, and their friends ral-
lied round them with offers to lend their
tennis courts for the occasion. Over
100 budding champs, entered for the
tournament.
memorial tablet to Mabel Forrest
was unV eiled by the Press Institute, and
president Mrs. W. Young went along. The
civic fathers allowed the tablet to be
placed in the vestibule on the Adelaide-
street side of our expensive City Hall,
and after the ceremony gave the members
of the institute and their friends tea in
the Lord Mayor’s reception-rooms. The
poem Mrs. Forrest wrote for the opening
of the City Hall has been inscribed on
the tablet.


I
s
Gordons
Si U ttrtrtk.
live.
&oc£Ju<l.
11l
6‘ N T*Mf
£i® p tBTIIS
Gordon's
Gin
GEIMIIIME LONDON GIN-IMPORTED
“CALLIDE VALLEY DISTRICT
HOSPITAL,”
BILOELA, CENTRAL QUEENSLAND.
APPLICATIONS are called for the position of
Medical Officer to the above Hospital.
Salary £4OO p.a., with right private practice.
Applications to be marked “Medical Officer”
and be in the hands of the Secretary on or
before NOVEMBER 11. Successful applicant
to take up duties December.
H. T. PIDDINGTON,
Secretary.
Situation Wanted.
WANTED by married couple, early forties,
positions on station; man handy in most
things, willing worker, can ride, drive car;
woman first-class dressmaker and help light
duties in house, fond of children. —284,
Bulletin Office, Sydney.
Personal and Missing Friends.
WILL JAMES KELLY, at one time oFHamil-
ton, Victoria, but more recently of Brisbane,
Queensland, Tailor, communicate with MESSRS.
CAMERON & LOWENSTERN, of Hamilton,
aforesaid, Solicitors.
Public Notices.
Something Different! Something New!
Here is the Correspondence Club that brings
results. Send 1/- p.n. and stamp to “Port o’
Lonely Hearts” Club, P.O. Box 43, Townsville,
Queensland.
MRS. OLIVE LLOYD.
THE whereabouts of MRS. OLIVE LLOYD,
formerly of New Zealand, and last heard of at
16 Challis Avenue, Potts Point, Sydney, are
urgently sought by MAZENGARB, HAY &
MACALISTER, Box 927, Wellington, New
Zealand, Solicitors for the Executors of the
estate of Mrs. Lloyd’s father, THOMAS
SYDNEY NEWCOMBE, who died on 28th
January, 1937.
Would Mrs. Lloyd, or anyone knowing her
present address, communicate with the Solicitors
above-mentioned without delay?
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1128 of 1937.
BETWEEN MIRIAM EDNA HAYES Peti-
tioner
And HUBERT THOMAS HAYES Re-
spondent.
TO HUBERT THOMAS HAYES late of Wal-
crett in the State of New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said MIRIAM
EDNA HAYES has commenced a suit against
you in this Honorable Court and is applying for
a dissolution of marriage on the grounds of
desertion for three years without just cause or
excuse AND TAKE NOTICE that you arc
required to enter an appearance to the said
suit at the proper office of this Couit on or
before the thirteenth day of December 1937
and in the event of your not doing so within
the time limited or obtaining further time the
Petitioner will proceed and the suit be heard
and determined your absence notwithstanding.
A copy of the petition filed herein may be had
on application to the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this 16th day of September, a.d.
1937. , _ _
For the Registrar,
(L.s.) E. F. LENNON,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
H MOFFAT NEWELL, Solicitor for the
Petitioner, 26 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
THE LITTLE SISTERS.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Mrs. Lance Lewis, of Glen Osmond,
having thrice won the Lady Hore-
Ruthven Cup for the best and most
artistic arrangement of cut flowers, re-
tains the trophy for ever. She received
a congratulatory message from Lady
Gowrie. She has approached Premier
Butler with a scheme for a floral day.
Mrs. Lewis suggests that people who
have surplus perennial plants and bulbs
should send them to a central depot, so
that they can be distributed by volun-
tary helpers to those with small garden
plots in the poorer suburbs. They in turn
could exchange with one another when
the plants had multiplied.
For country towns, Mrs. Lewis sug-
gests that spare trees and shrubs should
be sent from the Botanic Gardens and
city parks, each town specialising in a
certain type. One town might go in for
pink oleanders, another for blue jaca-
randas, and a third for flame trees.
Offices are to be asked to make a show
with window boxes as they did last year.
Some still cherish them.
The marriage of Richard, elder son of
Mr. and Mrs. H. Latreille, of Toorak,
Melbourne, to Alice, only child of Mr.
and Mrs. H. G. Willcox, of Medindie,
was celebrated at Christ Church, decked
for the occasion with massed arum-lilies.
The bride’s gown of white cloque and
silver lame was cut on princess lines,
with long, tight-fitting sleeves and a
square-cut neck. The long tulle veil was
lent by Mrs. James Nicholls, of Mel-
bourne (Arini Rutherford, of Adelaide,
that was), and was held in place by a
coronet of orange-blossom. Bridesmaids
Jeanne Seddon and Edna Collison fol-
lowed in very fine white stiffened lace
over white satin slips, with long sleeves
and V neckline.
The New Thought Society in Adelaide
was founded 40 years ago, but just
seen the first marriage performed by its
leader, Mrs. A. C. Murray, who has only
recently been granted a license to offi-
ciate. The bride was Louise Brown, of
North Walkerville, and the bridegroom
John Coffer Hoffman, of Beverley. The
ceremony took place at the society’s
headquarters. Mrs. Murray wrote out
her own form of service, omitting the
word “obey.”
Two South Australians, Rendel, eldest
son of Mrs. Evan Kyffin Thomas, of
North Adelaide, and the late E. K.
Thomas, and Ngaroma, daughter of
Mrs. Andrew Rutherford, of Unley
Park, and the late Mr. Rutherford, were
married at Weybridge in Surrey. The
bride wore her mother’s bridal gown
of cream brocade and lace. Sister Mrs.
John Bonython, of Adelaide, was matron
of honor, and acted as hostess at
a reception after the wedding. Mary
Randell, another South Australian on
holiday, was bridesmaid.
In London on the same day Nancy,
daughter of Dr. and Mrs. F. J. Douglas,
of Victor Harbor, exchanged vows with
James Blandy, Assistant Commissioner
of the New Hebrides. Knot was tied by
the Rev. E. H. Fernie, one-time rector of
St. Augustine’s, Unley.
WESTRALIA.
In a setting of flags, bunting and fes-
toons of colored lanterns, the Naval anti
Military Club put on a ball in honor
of the officers of the cruiser Sydney,
which called in at Fremantle on its
round-Australia cruise. Col. Margolin
and Col. Hobbs extended welcomes in
the lounge. Mrs. Margolin pinned a
spray of hyacinths on her misty-pat-
terned white sheer satins, and Mrs.
Hobbs shirred black cire taffetas in bouf-
fant style. A wavelet of sunray-pleated
azure georgette lapped Mrs. Dan Mc-
Kinnon, Mrs. Stanley Craig hoisted gold
lame on navy crepes and Pat Leake was
set about with rippling white and silver
matelasse.
With the Guildford Grammar School
chapel for a setting and padre Freeth to
bless the vows, Gladys, second daughter
of the Charles Hadleys, of West Perth,
became Mrs. Frank Meagher. Cloth of
gold sheathed the bride, and fell from a
folded shoulder drapery into a long oval
train edged with gold lame. Froths of
parchment tulle were held in place with
a semi-circlet of orange-blossom, and her
bouquet was composed of the real blos-
som. Jean Lang, the only bridesmaid,
matched her Juliet cap of gold sequins
with paler gold ninons shirred in panels
and swaying into a short train.
Kylie Club members invited guests to
the Karrakatta Club hall for their annual
at-home. Mrs. W. H. Vincent, president
and founder, did the honors in fox furs
and white-vested black crepe. The musical
programme was arranged by Mrs. Ralph
Crisp. Flora Bunning, newly returned
from musical studies in London, played
a Mozart sonata and a Chopin ballade.
Theo Meugens broke new ground with
a group of modern songs, and fiddler
David Powell collaborated with sister
Meg in a Spanish study by Da Falla.
Mrs. H. E. Braine bracketed three A. P.
Herbert sketches, and after tea Max
Rutter conducted community singing of
well-known Schubert and Brahms lieder
and folk-songs.
In wedding raiment designed by her-
self, Sylvia George, of Mt. Lawley, paced
the aisle of St. George’s Cathedral to
meet John Sutcliffe at the altar. Heavy-
white brocaded satin, square of neck and
puffed of sleeves, fell into a wide-pleated
train edged with tulle. White lilac held
clouds of tulle veilings and mingled with
fern in the bouquet. Golden satin
gleamed through the matching spotted-
net redingotes of the bridesmaids, who
carried posies of violets and tucked a
few more in their curls. Toasts were
drunk at Moascar, the George home at
Mt. Lawley.
Packed houses greeted the Rep. Club’s
production of Somerset Maugham’s “The
Breadwinner.” The successful stock-
broker who rebels against his family’s
idea that his reason for existence is
merely to provide them with luxuries was
portrayed by Colin MacLagan, with
Betty' Campbell to share the honors as
his self-centred wife. Joy Ruse, Sylvia
Cox, Mavis Bond, Russell Nash, James
Young and Alan Cuthbertson lent sup-
port under the direction of Mrs. R. J.
Cox.
Perth’s first elevated theatre was
opened when the Plaza, built on top of
a new arcade, flung wide its doors. Local
director of Hoyts, S. W. Perry, issued
invitations for the official opening and
a private screening of “Lloyd’s of Lon-
don,” and received guests and congratu-
lations in the flower-banked lounge.
Alwyn Hunter, swathed in gold lame for
the opening ceremony, has the job of
theatre hostess.
The McGibbon sisters, Molly and
Rita, returned from a lengthy sojourn in
Ceylon in time to take over the man-
agement of their home in Bellevue-ter-
race while their parents went off to the
Rotarian conference in Hobart. Mrs.
McGibbon presided over a welcome-
home tea-drinking at the Karrakatta
Club in the girls’ honor before packing
her own trunks.
The L. W. Viveash family, of Nor-
tham, acquired a new member when
Betty made a strictly private matrimonial
date at Christ Church with Peter Rus-
sell, who hails from Melbourne. An-
other fussless morning wedding of the
same week was that of Elsie Paxton and
Peter Plowman.
TASMANIA.
Mrs. Flexmore and Mrs. A. Finlaison
(Eng.) joined forces in a sizable bridge
party at the Queen Mary. The rooms
looked very attractive with masses of red
and white japonica for decoration. Mrs.
Finlaison was in black lace with long
flowing sleeves, and Mrs. Flexmore wore
dark-blue lace.
Campbell Town went gay and burst
out into a golf dance at Powell’s Hall,
with Mrs. D’Arcy Seddon and Pat Bur-
bury as joint hon. secs. A buffet dinner
preceded the evening’s success. Guests
came from over the whole district, and
the hall was decorated in various shades
of pink.
The Repertory Society held a party (of
which Mrs. Goody Miller was chief
organiser) at the Continental. Friends
and members were bidden to spend “a
night with the stars,” and dancers imper-
sonated screen favorites with huge suc-
cess. Half-way through the evening a
burlesque written by the Alan Millers,
complete with weeping heroine, faith-
ful lover and double-dyed villain, was
given on a platform at one end of the
ballroom. Lynus Donelly’s clever parody
of “Private Lives” was also staged. The
show was preceded by a dinner at Had-
leys, when about 60, many in fancy dress,
enjoyed the fun, and wound up with a
parade and the allocation of prizes tor
the best costumes.
One of the prettiest weddings old
Hobart Cathedral has ever .seen was Jean
Ewart’s to Merle St. Hill. The bride is
the only daughter of the J. H. B. Ewarts,
of Sandy Bay. The knot was tied by the
Dean of Hobart. The wedding garment
was of shimmering mother-of-pearl
alacia satin made on princess lines, with
the train falling from the waist. The veil
was an heirloom; lace, over 100 years
old, brought from Scotland by the bride’s
aunt. Peggy Harrison (Longford) and
Joan Chandler ’maided in hyacinth-blue
chiffon frocks very bouffant as to skirt
and with short-sleeved bodices. Their
bouquets were of pink hyacinths in two
shades. Afterwards the wedding party
and a big throng of guests were enter-
tained at Hadley’s.
The Arts and Crafts Society held its
show in the Town Hall. Exhibits were
not quite so many and various as last
year’s. The school work was good, and
the rugs interesting, especially those made
from waste materials, with which a sur-
prisingly good effect was achieved.
Hadley’s dinner dance was a sprightly
affair, and quite a crowd took tables and
danced afterwards in the lounge, cleared
for the occasion and decorated with all
sorts of flowering peach and plum, with
bowls of carnations interspersed.
More than 80 delegates to the C.W.A.
Conference met at Campbell Town and
decided to work in two divisions, north
and south, with Mrs. W. C. J. Peart as
State president and Mrs. Belmont Clark
as deputy State president. The organisa-
tion had a stormy launching, but all
should now go smoothly.
Anita, second of Mr. and Mrs. Frank
Parsons’s girls, and Rowland Pitt, Ken-
mere, Ouse, announce their engagement.
Betty Sale won the Southern Tas.
women’s golf championship, with F.
Gatehouse, former champion, second.
Artist Lucien Dechaineux is back in
the Speck after his six months’ trip
abroad. He motored about England with
his son and daughter-in-law (she was
Mary Harbottle, of Hobart), and also
looked at Italy, France and Germany.
He will now retire, with his family, to
Orford, and the East Coast should pro-
vide material for his brush for a long
time yet.


Ir its Famous Cooker I I
ĵ
MODEL 22 GAS
Baking Oven, 15i x2O x 12in.; Broiling Oven,
15j x 20 x 7in.; Cooking Top, 18£ x 22in.;
Floor Space, 38j- x Green and Ivory
finish. Four Star Burners with Automatic
Lighter. With Oven Heat Control and Oven
Insulation.
GAS and
ELECTRIC
Sets a new standard in
Clean Cheap Cooking.
0 Fine enamelled finish
0 large oven 0 gener-
ous boiling space.
0 Grilling done in oven,
no odours 0 saving use
of power or fuel.
Call and inspect without
obligation.
Open daily—B a.m.
Late Shopping Friday 9 p.m.
j
ĵ
MODEL 22 ELECTRIC
Supplied in various Grey and White Enamelled
finishes.
Roasting Oven, 15J x 19 x 13in.; Cooking Top,
x 22in.; Height to Cooking Top, ,34Jin.;
Floor Space, 39' x 32lin.; Surface Elements, one
Pin. 2000w. (max. speed), one 71in. 1200w.. one
600w. ; Oven Elements, one 1800W. (upper), one
120Ow. (lower) ; Warming Oven, one 100w.
JOHN DANKS & SON PTY. LTD.
{Incorporated in Victoria),
324-330 PITT STREET, SYDNEY—391-403 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE
’Phone: M6505. ’Phone: CS380. '
■ - ,
The Long White Cloud
A Difference of Opinion
Two Maorilanders who recently toured
parts of Australia with a farmers’ party
have joined issue, through their home-
town newspapers, over Australian stock
and Australia’s farming methods. One
says some cattle the party saw were thin
and some farming methods backward ;
the other declares this is “unpardonably
rude,” and adds that, if 20 years younger,
he’d take up land in Australia, “a won-
derful country for anyone with initiative
and ability.” The two grew quite hot
over each other’s remarks.
The truth is that Australia, some part
of which is generally emerging from a
drought of varying intensity, does have
thin cattle, but it is large enough to have
plenty of fat ones in other districts. In
climate, farming methods, soil capaci-
ties, population distribution, manufactur-
ing, mining and so on, Australia varies.
Few chunks of any State can be fairly
compared with the smaller holdings of a
more intensively-farmed Maoriland.
The average Maoriland farmer would
be as lost' on most Australian properties
as a Queensland grazier would be on a
100-acre Waikato dairy farm —until each
had adapted himself to local conditions.
“Korero”: Publication of a radio jour-
nal that will be free to Maoriland’s
licensed listeners (B. 22/9/’37) is just a
minor retaliation threat compared with
a hint from Prime Minister Savage that
certain concessions enjoyed by the dailies
will be reviewed unless the Labor Gov-
ernment receives “fair treatment.”
When I explain policy implications, and
the newspapers care to report me, I am en-
titled to fair treatment in the reproduction
of my words, and to justice in criticism of
them. Otherwise I will have to adopt
other means of giving publicity to my
policy in such a way that it cannot be sub-
jected to misrepresentation. Newspapers
should realise that they enjoy certain con-
cessions from the State.... granted be-
cause they are presumed to be rendering a
public service.
The concessions? Rail-freight reductions
and advantages in telegraph rates.
* * * *
“M.”: Maori prophet Ratana’s new
pah near Matamata in the Waikato has
been opened with “time-honored cere-
monial.” This means that elderly natives
strutted up and down the marae, or vil-
lage green, and talked for a long time.
Unless such shows are officially inter-
preted, few white Maorilanders know
what is said, but for the first hour or so
they are keenly interested in the impas-
sioned gestures of the orators and the
hearty native grunts of approval and dis-
approval that greet their words. After
that, pakehas invariably suffer an in-
creasing thirst and a growing suspicion—
nearly always unfounded —that some
tribal talkers are indulging a racial sense
of fun and enlivening proceedings by
comparisons not at all favorable to the
white visitors or the business ethics of
their land-grabbing forefathers. Heard
one weary Minister of the Crown growl
to his secretary at a Taranaki tangi a few
years ago, “That old buzzard has fin-
ished criticising my tie and is starting on
my nose,” but, according to my whisper-
ing interpreter, the old chap doing the
talking was merely following pakeha pre-
cedent and exhorting the mourners to
vote for his man at the forthcoming by-
election.
* * * *
“Kiwit”: Another advantage Maori-
land is receiving from Labor’s vigorous
attention to the different electorates (B.
15/9/’37) concerns younger members of
the community. Politicians and party
members are seeking the views and chas-
ing the support of the young people. “The
Labor movement must ever advance ; to
“I found the steel-wool quicker than the shammy, dear.”
remain stationary invites decay,” is the
dictum of national secretary D. Wilson.
“Young people especially should be in-
vited to join our ranks and take active
part in our work.” This, too, may not
be entirely to Labor’s advantage at elec-
tion time —but it is doing Maoriland
democracy the good turn of rousing
young people’s interest in the affairs of
their country.
* * * *
“Fergus”: More daily newspaper bally-
hoo has been dissipated by Felix von
Luckner, expected to nose his yacht into
Maoriland waters early in October.
When he heard the Australian yarn that
his Pacific cruise was just a Nazi propa-
ganda crusade, he wrote from Panama
to a Christchurch (M.L) friend to say
that he has “nothing to do with politics”
but is a “citizen of the sea who loves
the world ” Maorilanders who knew Von
Luckner when he was a daring young
German sea raider remember that he
kept his word—when he gave it; Von
Luckner, on the other hand, has a warm
spot for the people of an enemy country
who cheered him for his courageous
break from Motuihi Island, after he had
been recaptured. This trip? He’s still a
sailor and still romantic; says he is
taking his wife to see the places he fre-
quented as a prisoner of war and wants
some pictures for a film.
“D.N.”: The present whitebait season
is the worst Maoriland has known, so
Australians who have developed a taste
for the tinned variety may soon be
lamenting. The little fish are bringing
round ss. a pound in Maoriland cities,
and an Auckland retailer, who says such
shortage has rarely lasted into Sep-
tember, doesn’t believe there will be any
better whitebait runs this year. Looks
as though the fish scientists who solved
the whitebait spawning mystery are
right when they advocate the seasonal
protection of river, stream and lagoon
banks in known breeding localities ; it
would be a pity to see this unique and
tasty fish tramped out of spawning exis-
tence by stock and eaten off the market
by fanciers. Still, the shortage has intro-
duced city buyers to a second-grade
“whitebait” line —of smelts.
* * * *
“Xo”: Two Tahiwis with similar
Christian names and the same set of an-
cestors have been confused by “Mak”
(B. 22/9/’37). The Kingi Tahiwi who
had microphones pushed in front of him
in Australia’s eastern capitals when he
managed Nepia’s 1935 Maori Rugby
Union team is the father of the Kingi
Tahiwi now on the staff of Wellington’s
commercial radio station. The son in-
herited the family fluency, and developed
it at Victoria University College, where
he took part in inter-college debating con-
tests ; in his last university year he won
the Plunket medal for oratory. The
elder Tahiwi has been an interpreter in
Wellington’s official circles for. many
years. His private views on legislation
touching the native race have been sought
—and used—by those members of suc-
cessive Maoriland Governments aware of
his keen interest in the advancement of
his people.
* * * *
“Mak”: Union Airways’ map-and-log
idea enjoyed by main-trunk airline pas-
sengers in Maoriland (B. 22/9/’37) may
be well worth Australian imitation, but
there won’t be the same wide choice of
subject matter for marginal notes. Maori-
land’s longest air run is the 495 miles
between Palmerston North and Dunedin,
and its next-longest the 355-mile hop
from Auckland to Wellington. But the
whole Auckland-Dunedin trip is only
760 miles, as Union Airways’ liners cut
across Cook Strait from Palmerston
North to Blenheim. Even for experi-
enced air travellers, these distances
hardly warrant a snooze, and the swift
changes in Maoriland’s topographical
face are worth staying awake for. Be-
tween Auckland and Dunedin, the Maori-
lander sees more rural roof-tops, moun-
tains, rivers and sea than the Australian
who flies 1400 miles from Adelaide to
Brisbane, with calls at Melbourne and
Sydney; and in the 760 miles the Maori-
lander passes over most of his country’s
historical landmarks.
* * * *
“Cluny”: One type of settler is as
much to blame for erosion on Canter-
bury’s high-country runs as deer or sheep
(B. 15 / 9 /’37). Early runholders burned
bush and scrub off hill faces, but growth
in the damp valleys escaped, so, as soon
as the tussock which followed the burns
had dried sufficiently to carry another
fire, they burned again. It Was generally
the second burn which prevented the hills
from returning to bush, as seedlings that
lived through the first fire were killed.
Tussock and grass appeared to grow
more thickly after the second burn, and
some settlers who noticed this made
burning a periodical practice. For a few
years everything went according to plan,
but that was only while tree roots below
the surface continued to hold shingle
faces in place; when they rotted away,
the tussocks were not enough to stop
slips. Huge hillside cuts, often 15 to 20
feet deep, now scar many of those hills.


m
SYDNEY
.■lo**
cean^
r ±aitef
fIUCKLPND
THE NEW
UNION
LUXURY
LINER
“AWATEA”
CROSSES THE
TASMAN IN
2i DAYS!
This 23-knot express liner has set
a new standard in Trans-Tasman
travel.
Notable modern features include the Gymnasium, enclosed Promenade and
Observation Deck, Men’s and Women’s Club Rooms, Verandah Cafe and Dance
Room, as well as the Library and Writing Room, Luxurious Lounge, Music
Room, etc.
The “Awatea” carries First and Tourist Class Passengers.
Regular Service maintained between Sydney, Auckland and Wellington.
For all Particulars apply:
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z., LTD.
< (Incorporated, in N.Z.)
247 George Street, Sydney., 59 William Street, Melbourne.
DOMINANT COVERAGE
of the Entire West!
6AM’s new power of 1000
watts carries it into the
farthest outback farm and
into the busy city.
Do you realise that OUR
listeners are YOUR cus-
tomers?
6AM
Prince’s Chambers,
William Street,
Perth,
Western Australia.
RADIO NEWS.
DON B. KNOCK'S PAGES.
High-fidelity Headphones.
The once all-important headphones
have slipped well into the discard in Aus-
tralia. Yet there are people who have
uses for them.
In the U.S.A. the headphone is still
a vastly important factor in radio. It is
used commercially and experimentally
by thousands of operators. Recently the
Bell Telephone Co. developed a new
dynamic type of high-fidelity headphone
designed especially for monitoring pur-
poses in connection with broadcast trans-
mission. Until then it was necessary, in
order to monitor on a high-quality basis,
to make use of loudspeakers comparable
with those used in theatres and high-
grade receivers.
Progress has been made with tele-
phones using the dynamic principle, and
the diagram shows the latest Bell pro-
duct, which is claimed to be far in ad-
vance of previous dynamic types. The
moving coil element is made of alu-
minium ribbon wound on edge and insu-
lated with a varnish enamel which serves
also as a cement for holding the adjacent
turns together. It is fixed rigidly to the
diaphragm and the leads brought out
between insulating washers. The coil is
located in the air-gap of the magnetic
field, associated with a cobalt-steel per-
manent magnet, and the diaphragm is
made of duralumin, with a dome-shaped
centre portion extending to the inner edge
of the coil. Diaphragm and coil oscil-
late similarly to a piston throughout the
desired frequency range, and they are
relatively free from other vibration. In
a test monitoring receiver the character-
istics were adjusted to produce substan-
tially uniform pressure in the ear-
chambers over a frequency range from
100 to 6000 cycles,, which is something
entirely new in the history of headphone
design.
D. B. K.
Fifteen-watt Pentode Power
Amplifier.
A good method of obtaining audio
amplification is to use push-pull pentodes
in the output, and with high-gain stages
ahead such an amplifier is an attractive
proposition to those interested in public-
address systems. The design outlined is
from Philips Technical Communication,
No. 63.. The circuit is economical, since
the valves operate without drawing grid
current.
A standard audio transformer is used
£or , h bctween driver and out .
~A® , i +
put pentodes and heavy peak currents
are avoided, thus rendering special ampli-
fiers for the plate voltage supply unneces-
sary. The difference in output between
fixed and self-bias is not enough to war-
rant the inclusion of a separate bias recti-
tier, so that self-bias is employed and
ample output is obtained with low dis-
tortion.
Two high-Mu ELS pentodes are used
in the output in Class A/B, and the
driver is an EL3 high-Mu pentode triode-
connected. The input stage is a type EF6
pentode, and the power supply is via a
full-wave rectifier of the EZ4 type.
Output Stage.
The ELs’s were selected because they
can deliver an output of 15 watts, suffi-
cient for most requirements. The
secondary windings of the audio trans-
former have been shunted with a 50,000-
ohm resistance to even the frequency re-
sponse characteristic. These resistances
will not be needed if the transformer has
a high zero load inductance and low
leakage. Because of fairly high cathode
currents the bias resistor is proportioned
accordingly, and a three-watt wire-wound
type is suggested. Plate-to-cathode by-
pass condensers serve to improve fidelity,
and a tone control could be incorporated
here if desired. The output transformer
should be designed to carry relatively
heavy current, and 4000 ohms primary
impedance plate to plate is recom-
mended.
Driver Stage.
The EL3 is connected as a triode here,
and the primary of the transformer is
parallel-fed to avoid D.C. magnetisation.
Plate voltage is fed through a 30,000-
ohm resistor, and the screen is tied to the
plate through a 100-ohm resistor which,
in conjunction with a 50,000-ohm re-
sistor in series with the grid, serves to
prevent parasitic oscillations. Plate
supply to the EL3 and EF6 is decoupled
to minimise hum.
Input Stage.
The EF6 pentode has been selected for
this purpose, and with the associated cir-
cuit gives a stage gain restricted to 10
times. No additional gain is necessary
with this amplifier, since an input signal
to the order of 0.1 volt suffices to com-
pletely modulate the output stage.
Power Supply.
The EZ4 rectifier is used with 32mfd.
filter condensers and a 30-heavy 200 ma.
choke, and the power transformer H.T.
secondary is 300-0-300 volts with two 6.3-
volt windings, one at four amperes for
the valve filaments and one at 0.9 ampere
for the rectifier.
If the Philips 4148/49 microphone is
used with this amplifier it can be con-
nected, with the matching transformer
supplied, direct to the input terminals
without any pre-amplification.
P. T. C.
Amateur Chatter.
A good aerial is more than half the
battle in reception—and transmission.
Much better results can be secured in a
poor location for short waves by spend-
ing some time and forethought on the
planning of an aerial for the work in
hand. An ideal location is not merely
a matter of a hilltop or flat country,
but freedom from high noise level born
of electrical interference. Sydney varies
widely in this respect. In some places,
the most elaborate precautions are neces-
sary to keep “background” in receivers
down to a minimum, and in others over-
seas stations appear on the dials un-
accompanied by extraneous noises with-
out anything unusual in the way of an
aerial. The writer conducted a test
with a simple battery T.R.F. short-
waver to the north of Sydney, and,
despite the electric railroad a few hun-
dred yards distant, the receiver showed
no signs of electrical interference.
Except on special test days activity
on five metres is very spasmodic, and
one can call for casual contacts for hours
without result. This is in distinct con-
trast to the band in populated U.S.A.
cities. Overseas reports indicate heavy
congestion on five metres.
Though the possibility of
DX on five metres is an
attraction for those who
like to try for something
different, this band is
badly neglected in the
matter of cross-
c i t y contacts.
“Short - haul’’
traffic is its main
virtue, and it is
remarkable that
the obvious ad-
vantages of an
ultra-short-wave band are
not realised.
The September monthly
general meeting of W.I.A.
(N.S.W. Division) was the
occasion of an interesting
lecture on the reflecting
and refracting layers of the ionosphere
by M. Lusby (VK2WN). He ex-
plained the methods in use at Sydney
Uni. for measuring and recording the
continual variation in height of the lower
and upper layers. The cathode-ray oscil-
lograph is used to show the time pulses
of a received signal, and a continuous
film recording is made of the screen
pattern.
The redesigned five-metre transmitter
at VK2NO is being used for consistent
automatic transmission for the benefit of
any possible DX observers. The trans-
mitter now consists of a 6L6 electron-
coupled oscillator doubling from ten to
five metres and an RK2S, linked to two
80l’s in push-pull, linked to push-pull
35Ts. Much higher input with greatly
improved efficiency is obtained, and ad-
justments throughout all stages are
effected with all the ease of a much
lower frequency transmitter.
VK2NO.
Ultra-shorts.
“D.B.K.’s” tabulation of u.-s.-w.. appli-
cations (B. 8/9/’37) is of considerable
interest. Yet there are cases where
u.-s.-w. radio is not employed where it
could be of the utmost value if properly
engineered. There is little need for ex-
perimentation nowadays in the pro-
vision of reliable telephony channels over
distances up to 60 miles or more. That
it is practicable has been proved. Some
time ago the Water Board in Sydney
rejected a proposal to use u.-s.-w. tele-
phony for communication between dams
and stations after valuable channels were
made available for the purpose by the
P.M.G. It was decided that line tele-
graphy would be more convenient.
Line telegraphy means footwork for
somebody when a line goes out of order
by reason of a short circuit, disconnec-
tion or earthing. The fault can be located
by tests to define the area, but whilst
this is being done valuable communi-
cation time is lost. The use of ultra-
short waves would eliminate the need
for linesmen and delays through faults.
In the event of war a complete signal
scheme would be available.
Hydro-electricity is not encouraged as
it should be in Australia. In conjunc-
tion with hydro-electric schemes short-
and ultra-short-wave radio has a dis-
tinct place. The navy and air force
both have first-class radio communica-
tion to-day ; but what of our internal
communications, apart from coastal
point-to-point working? Will they be
as reliable as they should be if an emer-
gency should arise? It is not too late


"RADIO”
The world-wide technical
authority of amateur, short-
wave and experimental radio.
Subscriptions are 18/6 per year in
Australia, acceptable at “The Bulletin”
Office, 252 George Street, Sydney.
“Radio” is published monthly in Los
Angeles (U.S.A.) under date as of
the following month; 10 issues yearly,
including special annual number; the
August and September issues (which
would normally appear in July and
August) are omitted.
Copies are mailed to subscribers direct
from U.S.A.
Read “Radio” regularly and keep in
advance of the times.
“Radio” is the fastest selling of all
radio magazines—on the bookstall
to-day, sold out to-morrow.
Subscribe direct and be sure of
your copy!
The Woman’s Mirror
It deals with every subject of
interest to women.
PRICE - - - - 3d.
On Sale Every Friday .
4&
d
J:
H
i
H
i
Ultimate Radio gives you world-wide recep-
tion with the same clarity and realism of
local stations. No less than 798 stations
have been logged by the Ultimate.
Ultimate Radio gives you maximum per-
formance. Here’s the proof—Admiral Byrd
used Ultimate on his South Polar Expedi-
tions —Ultimate has won 9 Champion of
Champions Awards.
ULTIMATE
SOLE AUSTRALIAN CONCESSIONAIRES
GEO. BROWN & CO..PTY..LTD
Write for full particulars.
267 Clarence Street, Sydney.
’Phone: M 254 Lines.
Prices from
£29/18/-
to think of changing to the more modern
short- and ultra-short-wave methods of
communication. The services of every
advanced experimenter with working
knowledge of ultra-shorts in particular
should be recruited forthwith.
SACH.
20-metre 'Phone for ZLs.
Through N.Z.A.R.T., the representa-
tive organisation of M.L. transmitting
amateurs, permission has been obtained
from the Postal Department for tele-
phony operation in the amateur 20-metre
band.
The request for the transmission of A 3
type emissions (radio-telephony) is granted
for use of the portion of the 14,000 kc-
. band between 14,150 kc. and
14,250 kc. between the hours of midnight
and 7 a.m.
There are various conditions. There
must be no interference with other ser-
vices ; telegraphic standard and fre-
quency standards are to be maintained,
and transmission of records or music is
forbidden; all tests must be made on
artificial aerials.
The frequency allocation puts the
ZLs in the ’phone channel used by
U.S.A., and in this respect VKs are
much more fortunate. The difficulty in
obtaining satisfactory DX contacts when
operating inside 14,150 kc. to 14,250 kc.,
as any VK is at liberty to do, is appre-
ciable. The fact, however, that ZLs have
secured the 20-metre ’phone concession
is a feather in the cap of N.Z.A.R.T.
They will now be able to take part in
the world-wide chats afforded by the pre-
eminent DX channel of experimental
allocations.
VK2NO.
Radio Comment.
“D.8.K.”: The choice of the letter
“S” in Marconi’s historic transatlantic
transmissions from Poldhu was not be-
cause of the rhythmic sound of three dots
in succession, but for a very different
reason. So overloaded was the transmis-
sion equipment that anything in the
nature of a prolonged dash or combina-
tion of letters with successive dashes
would be sufficient to break down con-
densers and other apparatus and thus put
the station off the air.
* $ *
“R.H.A.”: Recently I replaced a 5Z3
rectifier with two 82’s (filaments in series)
operating in half-wave. Regulation
showed a marked improvement (the filter
circuit was “choke-input” in both cases),
and full-load voltage was about 20 volts
higher. It was necessary, however, to
balance the paralleled plates in each 82
by means of a 30-ohm rheostat to guard
against unequal distribution of the load.
M.V. rectifiers should be run without
plate power for several minutes if they
have been standing idle for any long
period. If a meter is not available for
balancing the load on each plate a rough
check may be made by observing the
amount of glow in each section. When
the two appear equally lit the load is
well distributed.
* * * *
“R.H.A.”: In transmitters valve fila-
ments should always be allowed to reach
the correct operating temperature before
any plate voltage is applied. I have
always treated a set of five types (recti-
fier, small and large triodes) this way,
and after more than 2000 hours’ use all
read higher than 80 p.c. They include
English and American types and have
been used in a large audio amplifier now
doing service as a modulator. Automatic
bias is used throughout.
* * * *
“Cluny”: Trouble with combination-
set pickups is mainly due to faults in
mechanical design. See that the point
of the needle is aligned over the exact
centre of the record-pin in the turntable.
There is a sliding sleeve in the pickup
arm with a set screw which should be kept
tight to minimise vibration after the
initial major adjustment. Fine juggling
of the needle-points is achieved by cant-
ing the movable head of the pick-up
right or left into position and leaving it
there. Constant turning of the pickup
to replace needles has the effect of loosen-
ing the swivel-screw which links the arm
to the base, screwed to the floor. Remove
the base, turn it upside down and adjust
the inverted swivel-screw to the required
tightness.
* * * *
An important link in Pacific com-
munication has been strengthened by the
British Phosphate Commission providing
improved radio telephone facilities at
Ocean Island and at Nauru. These
places are visited by the Commission’s
vessels Triaster and Triona, which carry
to Australia large quantities of phos-
phate. Several years ago the B.P.C. had
A.W.A. radio telephones installed on
both islands and on the Commission’s
ships. The older equipment at Nauru
and at Ocean Island has now been re-
placed with high-power modulation,
medium-wave telephone transmitters and
receivers. In the case of Ocean Island
also, an additional unit has been in-
stalled for operation on short waves. On
the medium wave-length vocal com-
munication of good quality has been
held for distances of over 1000 miles,
and with the short-wave telephone this
range has been considerably increased.
The equipment includes special types of
voice-operated relays by means of which
the transmitter is brought into action
immediately one commences to speak
into the telephone. The wave-length
change at Ocean Island is effected by
press-button control, the aerial system
being 800 yards from the transmitter.
Highly-sensitive superheterodyne re-
ceivers are used.
Ideal T.R.F. Performance.
The Ideal battery T.R.F. all-wave
receiver was credited (B. 28/4/’37) with
broadcast and short-wave results quite
equal to, if not better than, those given by
the average superhet. A tuned R.F. type,
it can stand up to tropical weather con-
ditions. The original receiver is used by
Dr. K. B. Gaden, formerly of Camoo-
weal, and now of Townsville (Q.). He
has recently been touring the Gulf coun-
try, and has had ample opportunity of
making comparisons between receivers.
He writes:
The T.R.F. is again in action, pitted against
the commercially manufactured dual-waver,
using the same A and B batteries, aerial and
earth. It knocks spots off the dual-waver on
short waves. The aerial is a poor one—2sft. of
insulated wire taken from the set through the
door and up to the flat roof. After breakfast
until 11.30 a.m. GSO can always be relied upon,
as can DJE. DJQ is the best here on 19 metres,
but not quite up to the form of DJE and
GSO.
In the afternoons all Daventry stations are
excellent; GSO easily first, then GSD, B and G.
DJE is nearly as good as GSO. At 4 p.m. all
Daventry stations are up to or ahead of
VK3LR, and that station is very good here
then. At night the 31-metre stations are first-
class, and on 16 metres DJE and GSG are
almost as good. The 19-metre stations come
in well at 9 p.m., and are rapidly improving.
GSJ and GSH are not so good as the others,
and W2XE at times is the best on 13 metres.
Frequently I get DJR, DJQ Moscow, TPA2I,
WBXK, DJB, JZK, YDC and DJL on 19 metres
after 11 p.m. without any cutting-in on the T.R.F.
and can separate all the stations on 31 metres
between VKs 6ME and 3ME. Volume is fre-
quently too much for a decent-sized room.
The T.R.F. will pick up stations at
speaker strength when the dual-waver is dumb,
even on the headphones. I have often out-
classed a seven-valve superhet with the T.R.F.
A local man here has an 11-valve all-wave
superhet, and the T.R.F. gets VK3LR when he
cannot hear a whisper. Furthermore, he uses
a very good aerial. On the broadcast band I
can get Perth and 6AM, and also a very
powerful Japanese, JOAK, on 2GB’s wave-
length. Almost without exception the T.R.F.
brings in VK3ME stronger than VK3LR,
whereas the dual-waver invariably is the re-
verse.
It must not be imagined that the dual-waver
is not good—it is—but the T.R.F. does better
under exactly similar conditions. You deserve
the greatest credit for the design of the T.R.F.
This is not only my own opinion, but that of
many others. Perhaps the T.R.F. doesn’t (in
this form) give the 10, 15 (or is it 25?) watts
undistorted output of some receivers, but who
wants that?
Those readers who may not have seen
the technical description of the Ideal
battery T.R.F. all-waver may be inter-
ested in a few points. It has only four
valves, of the six-volt indirectly-heated
type, and the T.R.F. stage is separately
tuned, not ganged with the regenerative
detector. It works from a six-volt accu-
mulator and 135 volts of B battery, and
there is little to go wrong. Further, it is
a much easier proposition to service than
a superhet. It was designed particularly
for use outback, away from broadcasting
stations.
D. B. K.
Concerning S.W.L.
Verifications.
It is a difficult job for the amateur
telephony transmitter to keep up with
his reports. For one ’phone contact
with another station in some far-off coun-
try he is liable to receive about 20 S.W.L.
cards. Some send postage for QSL
cards; others do not.
The conscientious transmitter, how-
ever, will do his utmost to reply to
S.W.L. reports. If they contain detailed
reports, and many do, they are of more
than passing interest. A sample was re-
ceived in the last U.S.A. mail. After
going into details of the reception, the
S.W.L. observes:
We S.W.Ls. haven’t professional-type
receivers and have to do our listening on
Scotts, Philcos or what have you? If we
hear three or four Australians in an even-
ing we are doing well. The mystery of
the whole business is how we can hear
you low-powered amateur ’phones at a
time when a powerful station like VK3LR
is on the air on 31 metres ; yet a number
of Australian amateur 20-metre ’phones
are quite audible. Some of us got started
too late in life to consider taking up
amateur ’phone, but many of the younger
S.W.Ls. of to-day are the prospective
amateurs of to-morrow.
D. B. K.
Short-wave Receivers.
Constructional Points.
Sometimes when a short-wave receiver
is put on test for the first time it has
not the prescribed wave-range, zero on
the dial tuning to a wave-length far
above the intended minimum.
Unfortunately, there are no coil stan-
dards in common use for short-wave
tuning, and, beyond the figures published
by manufacturers for use with their own
coils and a given capacity, one is more
or less in the dark when it comes to
estimating the wave-range of a short-
wave coil. However, by the use of a
test oscillator, the amateur can have a
home-made standard by which to judge
other coils.
Performance can be vastly affected by
the use of metal shielding. If a metal
chassis construction is used, make sure
that the tuning coils themselves, do not
come too near the panel. Plug-in coils
must be mounted at some distance from
the chassis. A good plan is to use a
piece of inch-thick wood, measuring
about 2in. by 2in., mounting this on top
of the chassis plate, valve socket on top
of this again.
The bottom end of the tuning induc-
tance will be some small distance away
from the metal, and there will be prac-
tically no ill effects, whereas if the coil
was mounted on a socket fixed directly
to the metal the tuning range would be
affected, together probably with a loss
of oscillation.
If the tuning range is too high—that is,
if both ends of the dial tune to too high
a wave-length—remove possibly one
whole turn from the tuning coil. This
may also require a little attention being
given to the reaction coil- as well.
If the tuning range is limited, that is,
a correct maximum figure but too high
a minimum, capacity must be reduced in
some other part of the circuit. Some
variable condensers do not have a low
enough minimum, so that if a receiver is
being built to a specification it is very
important to see that the correct tuning
condensers are employed.
Do not run any of the wiring in the
tuning circuits too near the metal chassis.
Extra capacities can be formed in this
manner with disastrous effects on the
efficiency of a short-wave set.
The chassis system of construction, if
employed sensibly, is excellent for short-
wave receivers. Use can be made of
chassis-type valve sockets, which have
considerably lower losses than some other
types, and the wiring can be kept short,
with a minimum of actual connecting
wires. Pigtailed small condensers and
resistances will be found particularly ad-
vantageous for the grid circuits, as the
condenser and leak in the detector cir-
cuit can be practically wired on to the
detector valve socket itself, thus reduc-
ing considerably the length of wire in use.
D.B.K.
The Question Box.
Full name and address must accompany all
queries; and write legibly to avoid con-
■ fusion in addresses. Queries are dealt with
by post where the matter may be urgent,
otherwise answers will appear in this column.
Reception here (Papua) from Australian
broadcasting stations with a 1937 Kriesler re-
ceiver is excellent, but except for Morse code
and less definite signals I am unable to raise
anything on the 19-, 40- and 49-metre bands.
On 25 metres and on 31 metres I get some
results during the early evening, but in day-
light practically nothing is heard on any of the
short-wave bands. The 60 ft. aerial, 40 ft. high,
points to Perth. What would be the effect of
an additional aerial erected at right angles, the
two aerials attached at the point where they
would be soldered to the lead to the set? —s94.
It is obvious that the receiver is not work-
ing properly on the short-wave side, and the
suggested aerial will not overcome the diffi-
culty. Probably the padding condensers on the
short-wave coils require readjustment, or the
I.F. trimmers need repeaking. The I.F. trans-
formers are the cans with two slotted screw-
heads. Try adjusting these with a tool made
like a screwdriver from hard wood or a bone
knitting needle. Tune in first on the broad-
cast band’ to a strong station and give these
trimmers a touch either way, retaining the
position where the signal is maximum. Only
the slightest variation will be necessary, and
care must be exercised. If the short-wave
padders are out, it is a case of factory adjust-
ment, though an attempt at rectification may be
worth while. These padders are across the
short-wave coils and may be enclosed in a box,
in which case they are best left alone. If
they are outside the box it is worth a trial.
Rather than a combination aerial as suggested,
two aerials at right angles with a switch to
change from one to the other would be more
likely to improve matters.
* ■(
(1) What radio textbook is suitable for a man
with knowledge of physics but no wireless
experience ? I don’t want to know how to
build a set, but how it works. (2) Is a scien-
tific description of the Air-Cell available? —595.
(1) The Book of Practical Radio, by John
Scott Taggart, Angus and Robertson, Sydney.
(2) Details were given in B. 17/2/’37, 24/2/’37
and 3/ 3 / ’37.
* * * *
I want to build a simple A.C. motor as de-
scribed in B. 8/9/’37. Would the same principle
work with stampings as outlined in the en-
closed sketch ? —593.
No, an ordinary armature cannot be used for
this type of motor, which is of the plain induc-
tion type. The rotor consists merely of a
number of laminated iron stampings separated
by insulating material and not a complete mass
of metal as in the armature proposed. The
yoke and pole pieces shown in the sketch will
be quite suitable for use with the appropriate
rotor. Induction motors are constant speed
motors, and the speed of a two-pole motor
is 300 r.p.m., 1500 for four poles and 1000
for six poles, based on 50-cycle A.C. supply.


VITA-LICK
FOR MORE AND BETTER
WOOL
Mr. C. W. Bull, Gala Vale, Jeril-
derie, writes (4/2/’29): —
“Gala Vale Merino wethers
in wool, fed on Vita-Lick,
topped the Melbourne Market
last Spring, averaging 41/10.
Gala Vale wool (44 bales)
also topped the Sydney Market
for the week it was sold. 1
consider these results were
obtained partly by the use of
Vita-Lick, the sheep keeping
very healthy while growing.”
Bringing on Young Stock.
“Tri-cal”: Those yearlings that took
your fancy have been getting Tri-cal-os
Bone Flour since they were 6 weeks old.
They have been on agistment—and you
must admit my pasture is good—but I
thought a calcium phosphate supplement
should be useful and so put a trough
of Tri-cal-os 40, salt 60 beside one of
grain. Well, the youngsters always went
straight to the Tri-cal-os first. That con-
vinced me that the pasture wasn’t good
enough. Now I’m proud of those little
chaps—l think they are in better con-
dition than yours, and I know Tri-cal-os
is responsible. Goodness, it’s economical
enough, and Fm Scotch, at least on one
side!
MwSl
Write to Davis Gelatine (Aust.) Pty., Ltd., G.P.O. Box 35835, Sydney,
for details. Old Farmer.
Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House-
holders’ Comprehensive, Workers’
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
Polled Merino Rams.
“Narooma”: Breeders are only begin-
ning to realise the necessity for getting
rid of horns. Most sheep are hornless
—the main exceptions are the merino,
Dorset Horn, Scotch Blackface and other
mountain breeds, and even among these
ewes are only lightly horned.
The merino ram would be much hap-
pier and more useful without his horns.
An otherwise good ram is often con-
demned merely on account of tight, close-
fitting or badly-set horns, though the
female progeny of a flock ram will be
practically hornless, and the wethers not
prejudiced by the shape of their pro-
genitor’s horns. Only the ram himself
will be affected, in that it will be hard to
clean round the head at shearing-time
and flies will find him an easy mark.
Few realise the load horns impose on
an animal in a low or weakened condi-
tion. The writer once sawed the horns
off 500 rams. When the job was com-
plete there were about two tons of
horns to be carted out of the shed. The
horn was sawn square off just below the
lower inside junction with the animal’s
head. This clears the “quick,” and only
one ram out of the 500 suffered any ill
effects—its horns were sawn too close.
After the operation the beasts certainly
looked ugly, but more of them came
through the ensuing dry time than would
have been the case had they had to carry
that extra weight. Fly attack was less-
ened, but only slightly, as the rams still
damaged their heads in fighting. How
ever, it was much easier to treat the fly-
blown heads and to prevent the spread
of the strike. The dehorned rams car-
ried their age better and kept up with
the ewes better than their horned mates.
Adelaide Sheep Sales.
“Ghanam”: Adelaide Royal Show ram
sales showed great improvement over
those of last year, and there was
a marked change in the popular
demand. Big-bodied and. heavy-woolled
plain sheep were sought. A number of
rams were of poor standard, out of place
at a show sale.
S.A., Tasmanian, W.A. and Queensland
buyers attended, with a lone Maorilander.
Considering the fact that there had been
a heavy merino sale at Narracoorte only
a few weeks ago, the clearance was re-
markable —south-eastern buyers were out
of the market.
There was a good demand for rams
woolled around the 58’s-60’s level —one
from Koonoona sold for 90 guineas to
Mrs. J. Dewell, Mt. Pleasant. Flock
rams from 10 to 20 guineas were the
most popular buying.
The highest price paid was 275 guineas
for a North Bungaree ram. Three went
to Askin Morrison, of Oatlands (Tas.), for
180, 100 and 60 guineas respectively, and
the Charles Goulter Estate, Hawkesbury,
Blenheim (M.L.), paid 155 guineas for
another.
Export of Merinos.
“Bungaree”: The need for reciproca-
tion by M.L. in the embargo on export
of merinos is emphasised by a recent
shipment —242 stud ewes and 11 rams,
valued at over 2000gns. —to Japan from
the well-known Hawkesbury (M.L.) stud.
Although an understanding exists that
Australian stud merinos imported by
M.L. must not be re-exported, there is
nothing to prevent their progeny being
sold abroad.
The embargo should include Polwarths
and Corriedales. Many Polwarths, par-
ticularly the Victorian type, have come
back so close to the merino that to all
intents and purposes they differ only in
name.
Zebu Cattle.
“Walliew”: Can’t allow “Mookau’s”
views on zebu crosses (B. 25/8/’37) to
go unchallenged.
Smithfield reports of the few zebu
types that have been marketed have been
encouraging—the color was attractive, the
carcass dried out well, the percentage
cut-out of meat to bone was favorable
and carcasses could be cut down into
lighter-weight joints than ordinary beef
carcasses. The quarters were meaty,
loins level and well sprung, returning 5s f
worth more of meat than British types'
“I packed the tuckerbox on FIRST, Dan, so it Wouldn't get lorst.”
the thighs broad, thick and full, well-
fleshed towards the hock.
With breeding improvements, nOw;
under way with the C.S. and 1.R., the
breed should justify itself. If “Mookaff”
will visit the experimental stations ’of
Millungera, Waverley, Glen Prairie and
Wealwandangie (N.Q.), he will soon see
whether the zebu stands drought better
or fattens more quickly, or gives better
per acre returns. Millungera conditions
are exactly like those further west and
north-west. While British cattle were
feeling the effects of 103 deg. F. in-the
shade, zebus were grazing at ease. After
a muster at 101.5 deg. F., after moving
to 4j miles, the two-year-old Shorthorn-
zebus were not distressed, while the
purely British breeds were panting. -
Of six of the heaviest of a group ,of
16 Waverley Herefords, Red Polls and
Shorthorn-Herefords—the youngest over
six. months —the average was 3951 b. ?Of
six zebu crosses reared under the same
conditions, the average was 4871 b., and
the zebus were younger. The owner of
Wealwandangie wrote last year:
I saw the zebus and was surprised at
their size and development. The oldest of
the half-breds are about 20 months, and
look like three-year-olds. They are always
fat and very vigorous.
Glen Prairie and Waverley observa-
tions have shown that the zebu cross is
definitely tick-resisting. British cattle had
to be dipped every three weeks. The zebus
were not worried even after five months
undipped. Here, as at Millungera, they
are found to be of good manageable
temperament.
Waverley i§ crossing polled Herefords
and zebu first-cross bulls. Thus a com-
parison will be possible between pure-
bred Herefords,- half-bred Herefords and
quarter-bred Herefords under identical
conditions. First-cross zebus at the ruling
price of beef will give 10s. per head per
annum more than ordinary beasts, and
prices of £2O and more have been offered
for 18-months-old Red Poll-zebu cross
bulls.
Milk Fever.
“Agamemnon”: Milk fever is caused
by lack of lime in the blood. It always
occurs in cows giving plenty of milk,
and it usually attacks mature cows three
days after calving. Heifers are rarely
affected.
The first symptoms are restlessness and
excitement. The limbs move stiffly, and
the animal soon falls down in a coma
with the head pressed against the
shoulder. Breathing is noisy and labored,
and bloating may occur. The cow often
cannot swallow.
Blowing up the udder firmly with a
bicycle pump will usually cure the
trouble. After inflation the udder should
be gently massaged. It is not necessary
to tie the ends of the teats. The cow
should be propped upon her chest with
sacks. Small quantities of milk, should
be drawn off at short intervals for 48
hours after recovery, but the udder must
not be milked out.
A better method is to inject calcium
gluconate— two ounces dissolved in two
pints of boiling water cooled to a little
above blood heat—into the neck. This
does not interfere with the milk yield
as inflation does, and avoids the Chance
of septic mammitis.
Prevention lies in withdrawing small
amounts of milk at frequent intervals
for the first three days after calving or
in the injection of loz. of calcium gluco-
nate. On lime-short country licks or
bonemeal will help.
Cheese in Queensland.
“Manna”: The annual report of the
Queensland Cheese Board shows a de-
cline in last year’s production from
12,177,0001 b. in 1934-35 and 9,140,0001 b.
last year to 7,764,0001 b. This despite
the fact that Australian production in
two years has increased by 6,500,0001 b. It
is a record low figure for the State.
Seasons are mainly to blame. Drought
struck at the worst possible time, on a
rising market, and there was only half
the cheese available for export last year
that there was the year before. Local
prices, despite the scarcity, were slightly
lower than in 1935-36 —9.41 d. against
9.42 d. But process cheese averaged
8.43 d. against 8.19 d. and the overseas
market rose Id. above the 5.49 d. aver-
age of the previous year.
There is much to be done yet to secure
uniformity of quality and grade in
Queensland. In the board’s opinion,
grading figures remain unsatisfactory,
and there is need for a policy which will
result in all cheese being aged for at
least three weeks or a month before mar-
keting. This is not encouraged by the
price-fixing authorities who deal with
local consumption and divide cheese into
“mild,” “semi-mature” and “mature.”
Help Them Feed.
“Silky Bag”: Many milking cows have
difficulty in getting a bellyful in the time
at their disposal. Pastures may be too
far from the farm, or the paddocks may
be too big but constantly grazed, so the
cow wanders about most of the day tak-
ing the choicest bites only.
Rotational grazing helps. By grazing
the same amount of pasture in a series
of small lots, cows are always let into
plentiful feed. As soon as they have
eaten it out, a fresh plot is ready.
Monthly rotations can be carried out
with only six plots, the cows being five
days on each, but it is better to work
with 10 plots, with three days on each.
A high-producing cow must fill up
quickly so as to spend at least eight hours
a day cudding. If she can get enough
food in six hours, so much the better.


THE
m
The new International
Utility.
'mm
I
international
to 2 i' ton 0 f fl long
, of teTna ttonaU_
f H eavS'M®
a
M» da
panel units in
several sites,
Half'l' onUp -
S H 5
.. avail'
St) ecial boiiei , hctM Ung
Ss&%g2
able f«
Heavy-duty champion of the truck world
at the top of his form~a powerful
International with special dump body.
All the new Internationals are as NEW in engine and
I, chassis, in structural refinement, in every vital detail,
as they are NEW in streamlined distinction for the
highway. All are ALL-TRUCK, and all are as modern
as today’s fine cars.
The International line offers a trim, streamlined unit for the
Half-Ton field and a wide range of sizes for every type of
load and hauling requirement. Their performance will
give you daily hourly greater efficiency in your delivery
and hauling work. A new standard of transport economy
is assured iii their advanced ALL-TRUCK engineering quality.
In the hew Internationals you find the stamina, value, and
character beneath the surface. These are the most efficient
trucks available today.
See the new Internationals. Whatever your own individual
hauling needs, there is the right model and size awaiting
your pleasure in the new International line. Phone or
write us for a catalogue on the size to fit your needs,
or better still come in and see for yourself.
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER COMPANY
OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
lINGORPORATED IN VICTORIA)
BRISBANE SYDNEY MELBOURNE ADELAIDE PERTH
ROBT; NETTLEFOLD PTY. LTD., HOBART, AGENTS FOR TASMANIA.
■ I
H 592
j
Treating Wormy Pigs.
“Mandipa”: Wormy pigs can be cured
by dosing with 20 parts of draught castor
oil to one part oil of chenopodium.
Warm the oil to help mixing, an sir
we “- * , nA umr-c K.n
Starve the patient for . ’ •
give a little warm milk before dosing.
Otherwise the pig may vomit the dose.
The dosing table is: Under 201 b. live-
weight, one tablespoonful; 201 b. to 351 b.,
two tablespoonfuls; over 351 b., three
tablespoonfuls
After dosing the animals should be put
in a fresh sty and kept fasting for six
hours. The worms will be passed in from
24 to 48 hours, and should be collected
and burnt.
As oil of chenopodium is distasteful,
it must usually be given forcibly through
a small funnel. Place the pig in a wheat-
bag, one corner of which is cut to allow
the snout to stick out. Sit on a low box
with the pig between your knees. If
Dennis won’t swallow hold his nose, but
take care that he doesn’t choke.
Making Deserts.
“Ghanam”: The annual report of the
a.M.L. and F. remarks on the effects
which overstocking are producing over
w j^ e areas j n Australia. Much land, it
declares, is already labelled as desert
a few years ago produced a good
, , f J 6 * 6
.
The writer says the tendency to divide
old runs into comparatively small graz-
mg properties has not been justified and
that there are f ewer sheep on the great
saltbush plains than 40 years'ago. Further,
that the spread of stock diseases and
parasites is largely due to the shifting
of sheep-raising centres nearer to the
coast.- * • •-
There is no reason why there should
be more disease on closer-settled coastal
districts, but it is a fact that the decrease
in carrying capacity away from the coast
becomes more serious every year. In
Centralia, north of the Alberga, there
used to be stations which were famous
for their fat bullocks. To-day, their
power to carry has almost gone, and the
original owners have relinquished them.
N. S. Wales in 1891 carried 61,800,000
sheep; to-day it carries only 52,100,000.
The falling off is wholly accounted for by
the fact that the sheep population of the
Western Division has been reduced from
16,400,000 to 6,800,000. Western District
dairy cattle in the same period have
declined from 7000 to 2000 ; other cattle
from 94,000 to 89,000— though the in-
crease for the State has been 500,000, or
about 25 p.c. The division carries only
half the horses pastured 46 years ago.
The slide has not been caused by the
development of agriculture or other rural
industries. The Western Division, which
encloses all the land west of the Lachlan
and of a line to Canbelego, to the Bogan
and via the Barwon to the Queensland
border, grows scarcely enough crop to
feed a rabbit.
Early-maturing Wheats.
“Nabawa”: Though the rise of
Nabawa, Ford and one or two others
more resistant to rust and dry weather
has ousted Waratah from the position it
held a few years ago, it is still the best
early-maturer for good-rainfall locali-
ties. Bobin and Ranee are better for the
same purpose in drier areas.
Waratah is too easily taken by flag
smut and stem rust for a general-purpose
wheat. Bobin has a tendency to pro-
duce grain of inferior bushel weight.
Ranee falls easily to flag smut.
Plant-breeders in search of new early-
maturers have not had much success. A
substitute would have to yield as well as
any of the three and be resistant to
rust and smut.
Sword, a S. Australian, has a higher
resistance to stem rust than Waratah,
and may outyield it in some parts of
central-western N.S.W. There are possi-
bilities in Gluford, another S.A. pro-
duct, which is partly rust-resistant but
highly susceptible to flag smut. Totadgin,
{“Man on Land” continued on page 44.)


TIME TELLS THE TALE
OF VALUE.
:^x\.
45/-
It’s not over weeks or months that you reckon the value of Abbey Shoes.
Wait till you glance at friends of years’ standing and you will feel a glow
of warm satisfaction at the way their quality has stood you in good stead.
Made in Black and Brown, in full and half sizes, medium and wide fittings.
Price 45/-.
“If it’s an Abbey Shoe it’s a good Shoe.”
ABBEY SHOES
316 George Street, 224 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
Telegraphic Address: “ABBEY BOOTS, SYDNEY.”
DOUBLE THRILL
.DOUBLE YOUR MONEY BACK!
If Pepsodent doesn't show-up any other
tooth paste you ever used . . . bar none!
no
?•*£* >0 C *
’’ V s t o«-
6e» Ao
\«* e ** v a'° ne
*s2» '*' u
*
*
The New Pepsodent alone contains IRIUM
which Thrillingly Steps-up Lustre on Teeth
Because it alone contains IRIUM,
the new Pepsodent works on an en-
tirely new principle. It dissolves
film on teeth with an amazingly
swift but gentle action.
It thrillingly steps-up lustre on teeth,
yet it is Doubly safe because it con-
tains no pumice, no grit! Doubly
delightful because it contains no
chalk, no soap!
The New PEPSODENT alone
contains IRIUM
IRIUM brings flashing lustre to
teeth—freshens the mouth—stimu-
lates gums—yet does so with the
safest action ever known in tooth
pastes.
Double Your Money Back
Try the New Pepsodent Tooth
PEPSODENT
The Special Film-Removing Tooth Paste
THE 2/- SIZE IS THE MOST ECONOMICAL
THE PEPSODENT CO. <AUST.) PTY. LTD.
(INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA)
Paste, and if, in your opinion, it
does not give you Doable the thrill,
Double the safety and Double the
delight of any tooth paste you ever
used—bar none—we will give you
Double your money back.
Just post the partially used tube to
The Pepsodent Co. (Aust.) Pty.
Ltd., Melbourne, and we will send
you double what you paid plus
postage.
High-Polish Your Teeth FREE
This coupon entitles you to a
free generous supply of the new
Super-Soft High-Polish Pepso-
dcnt Tooth Paste. Just mail
to the Pepsodent Co. (Aust.)
Pty. Ltd., Dept. -No. 4. Box
488 G, Melbourne, C.X,
Name
Address.
City.
AU 7372 D
State.
%e W 8«
a
••V
O
Australia’s Leading Financial Journal,
SEPTEMBER ISSUE NOW ON SALE.
THE BUDGET.
CONSOLS.
INVESTMENT PROSPECTS.
PRODUCERS AND GENERAL FINANCE CO.
GOLD AND MALAYAN TIN NOTES.
PRICE 2/ - PER COPY, OR £l/216 PER ANNUM POSTED.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd., 252 George Street, Sydney, and all States.
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
a Westralian, might yet rival Bobin and
Ranee in drier country.
Hume (a Jonathan x Sunset x Zaff x
Felix), evolved at Temora (N.S.W.) as
an early-maturer, failed in the field. Sturt,
a selection from Sands, and Kookaburra
(Hard F. x Nabawa) have yet to prove
themselves.
An early-maturing wheat is one that
will allow late sowing (after a dry
autumn has delayed seeding or grass-
hoppers have made reseeding necessary)
and will grow fast enough to be ripe at
normal stripping time. That is, sown in
June and harvested in November-
December.
Getting the Binder Ready.
“The 0.D.”: A clean cut and light
draught on the binder come from a
straight knife and well-aligned fingers.
Align fingers by holding a bit of iron
under or below finger at the back and
knocking the point up or down as
required.
Replace all worn parts before taking
the machine into the hay.
The outside of the beater should be
•yin. to |-in. higher than the inside on
a 6ft. machine ; fin. to lin. on an Bft. The
inside of the beater should pass over
the cutter bar about 4-in. to yin. ahead of
the outside on a 6ft. machine ; l£in. to
2in. on an Bft. There is an adjustment
on the reel lever.
Looseness and sideplay in the packers
can be overcome by using washers on
each side of the bearing. The packer
should come up in the centre of the slots
in the decking.
On some machines there is a small,
corrugated controlling nut to fix the posi-
tion of the knotter cord ring. To find
the right opening, shove the gripper back
as far as possible, lay a lead pencil in
the opening in the cord ring and adjust
the ring to this point.
The needle should drop the twine right
to the bottom of the slot in the cord
ring before the ring itself moves. If the
needle is a bit high, pull it through as far
as possible, then hold something solid
under it well up from the end, and hit
the point downward with a heavy
hammer.
Test every oil hole to make sure the
lubricant goes into the bearings. This
can be done by turning the machine by
hand.
Points on Pastures.
“K.Mc.”: A well-balanced pasture
contains about 70 p.c. grasses and 30 p.c.
legumes. Understocking allows vigorous
annuals to dominate sweeter grasses.
When overstocked, the most palatable
plants are eaten out and the rough ones
take control. Newly-sown clovers should
never be eaten down to the crowns.
Annuals should be allowed to seed well
the first year.
Phosphoric acid improves root develop-
ment and hastens maturity. 'Sub. clover
responds well to such treatment, and its
decaying roots and > top growth add
humus to the soil. In suitable districts,
on loose soils, a good stand of s.c. may
be obtained by broadcasting without
scratching the surface. Hard ground,
however, requires aeration, and should be
ploughed or broken with a rigid-tyned
cultivator.
Lucerne or Phalaris tuberosa warrants
a tryout on river or creek flats. Early
growth of P.t. is often checked by peren-
nial rye, so these grasses should not be
sown together.
Wimmera rye stands sometimes fail
when the previous year’s seeds are not
sufficiently covered to germinate. Reno-
vate every autumn, and if the new plants
come up too thickly tear some out with
a cultivator.
Pasture mixtures should be sown on
the surface —not drilled in—and covered
by a light harrowing or a netting drag.
After planting, loose mulch surfaces
should be consolidated with a roller.
Lantana.
“Bug”: What is wrong with lantana?
As a soil renovator there is nothing to
beat it. Few trees give the same wealth
of humus or ash fertiliser.
Lantana is no trouble provided it isn’t
sheltered where no wind can get at it. In
places such as that, rain is the best ally
a man can have —after four inches of
rain a horse will yank out clean the big-
gest lantana-tree that ever grew. Further,
after land has been under lantana for
some years it gets lantana-shy.
If there is grass growing through the
stuff it will carry a fire provided there is
a wind behind it. A good smoke pour-
ing over lantana for a couple of hours
will cause all the leaves to fall off. But
half the butts will shoot again after the
first burn. The shoots will be a
foot or more in length, though not in
the tangled maze of old stuff. The wealth
of grass which grows on burnt-over soil
is astounding. When that growth dries
whip another fire through. It will burn
the lantana out by the roots. The writer
has cleared thousands of acres of the stuff
at no expense other than a bit of sweat
and a few boxes of matches.
Hints for the Farm.
“Lam”: About the only thing any good
for warding off sheep nasal fly is to
dab the animals’ noses occasionally with
tar.
“Willeroo”: Blue-gum bark contains
60 p.c. tannin and 7 p.c. metarabin. It’s
a good substitute for wattle bark for
tanning leather.
“Stump Jump”: To pour oil cleanly,
run it down a piece of wire held to the
edge of the tin or bottle, the free end
resting in the oiler. A good plan is to
stick a 6in. length of wire into the cork
ready for use.
“Ghanam”: Fat lambs should never
be lifted by the skin, prodded with sticks,
chased with dogs or overcrowded in
trucks. Five lambs too many in a truck
may mean the price of 10 lambs less in
the export market.
“Mookau”: A cream cooler checks
development of bacteria, frees undesir-
able flavors and aerates the cream. Fresh
cream and too-ripe cream should never
be mixed, and all cream kept on the dairy
should be stirred often to control ripen-
ing.
“Oko”: Chokos should be planted
whole, on the side, with the broad end
sloping downwards and the stem a little
above ground. They like loamy soil and
constant feeding with heavy manures —
well-rotted stable refuse and dried blood
and bone are among the best.
“Gumblegubbin”: A quick and simple
way of making a concrete path: Mix
cement to a fairly thin liquid in a tub,
then dip in broken stone or clean gravel
a shovelful at a time and throw it on the
prepared pathway. The coated stone
roughly levelled with the shovel, then
rolled, gives a smooth, long-wearing sur-
face.
“Zedo”: The season for downy mildew
and black spot in grapes, which have
ruined many a vinegrower, is on the
way. For both, use Bordeaux spray. For
mildew give the first spraying when
shoots are lOin. long, and spray often
afterwards with a mixture of 61b. blue-
stone, 41b. lime and 50 gallons of water
for mild infections, and 101 b. bluestone
and 41b. lime when the season is bad.
For black spot, spraying should be done
when buds are bursting, when the fruit is
set, and afterwards when moist weather
suggests danger.
“X.T.”: What is a record wool load?
Nebea, Coonamble (N.S.W.), sent out 15
tons the other day—loo bales. And that
is a good performance on any earth road
with culverts or a bit of sand on it.
“Mookau”: Commonwealth butter ex-
ports fell for the two months ended Sep-
tember 4 from 6365 tons in 1936 to
4269 tons this year. The N.S.W. decline
was from 673 to 221 tons; Victoria’s
from 1599 to 581 tons; Queensland’s
from 3611 to 2821 tons. W.A.’s out-
goings increased from 10 to 168 tons and
S.A.’s from 437 to 457 tons. The figures
are just another lesson in the value of
drought-fodder conservation.
“Walliew”: A 23-months-old pedigree
Hereford, by Shrine Cavalier (imp.),
bred by Archer Bros., of Grace-
mere (Q.), slaughtered recently at the
Lakes Creek (Q.) works and marked
for special comment from the London
market, showed a short, thick carcass
with good outside covering and good in-
side fat. Chilled weight was 6081 b. The
block weight was 65.93 p.c. From
one to twelve months he was on good
pasture with his dam. From 12 to 15
months he was on pasture, supplemented
with bran and lucerne and summer-grass
chaff. For another four months he was
on pasture; and for the final period on
pasture plus a ration of bran, cottonseed
meal and chaff.


18,800
HIGH CLASS MERINO SHEEP
“GILLENBAH STATION BRED”
18,800
BY PUBLIC AUCTION.
By DALGETY & COMPANY LIMITED ( Incorporated in England) NARRANDERA
On THURSDAY, 7th OCTOBER, 1937, at 1.30 p.m.
At “Gillenbah” Station Woolshed Yards, 5 miles from Narrandera.
On Account of MESSRS. SYME BROS., “GILLENBAH,” NARRANDERA
18,800 SHEEP PURE “BUNDEMAR” BLOOD 18,800
Comprising:—
EWES: 1535 one year
1116 two years
350 two years
919 three years
626 three and four years
665 four years
928 five years
666 five and six years
To be shorn end July early August.
6805 CLASSED BREEDERS 6800 WETHERS
3500 LAMBS, MIXED SEXES 124 RAMS
1571 MIXED SHEEP.
WETHERS: 1600 one year
1350 two years
2100 three and four years
1150 five years
600 six years
6800
MIXED SHEEP:
451 ewes one year
550 ewes two years
390 wethers one year
180 weaners mixed sexes
1571
RAMS: 32 two years
56 three years
36 five years
6805
The Gillenbah Merino Flock was founded by Messrs. Syme
Bros, in 1924-25, by the purchase of high-grade Bundemar ewes
and rams. Later, ewes from the well-known flocks of Cocket-
gedong, Midgeon and Cobram were introduced; and all these
flocks are of Peppin blood. Only high-grade 15- and 20-guinea
Bundemar rams have been used as sires.
The classing, selection and mating have been under the
This sale affords buyers an opportunity to
rebates to agents introducing cash buyers.
personal supervision of that well-known sheep expert—Mr. J.
Wrenford Mathews —and only sheep of outstanding quality
have been retained in the flock.
Messrs. Syme Bros, have spared no expense in building
up the flock to its present high .standard. For many years the
Gillenbah clip has topped the Sydney market, the wool being
of high character, combined with appealing length and density.
obtain high-grade sheep. Usual liberal
Good drovers will be in attendance.
Messrs. Syme Bros, have sold the property, and the whole of their carefully-classed flock is offering for genuine sale.
HORSES: Also on completion of Sheep Sale: The Welsh Cob Stallion “Young Traveller,” 9 years, 14 hands, by
“Travellers Joy” (Imp.) and 11 head Station Hacks, Mares and Geldings.
LUNCHEON PROVIDED.
DALGETY & COMPANY LIMITED ( lnearp. in England)
NARRANDERA
p§g
mm-
ssm
■
• ft
any car I’ve driven S
Take a Ford V-8 out on the open road and you,
too, will agree it "out-performs any other car.”
But brilliant performance is not the only out-
standing quality of this famous V-8. Economy
is exceptional—in a recent nation-wide test 114
Ford V-B’s averaged 23.02 m.p.g. With its
beautiful All-steel body (steel roof, sides and
floor) and safety glass all round it gives you
maximum safety at all times. Driving is effort-
less because you have the advantage of finger-
tip steering and easy-action mechanical brakes.
These and many other refinements of design
are the reasons why so many motorists are
changing to the Ford V-B—they are satisfied
that it offers unrivalled motoring value. Your
local Ford dealer will gladly demonstrate.
Easy and convenient purchase terms available.
FEATURES OF FORD V-8 INCLUDE:
Proved Operating Economy . . . All-Steel Body
—Frame, Roof, Sides, Floor, all welded into a
single steel unit ... Safety Glass All Round...
Easy-Action Mechanical Brakes . . . Large Lug-
gage Capacity . . . New Quietness in Operation
. . . Luxurious Style and Equipment . . . Ford-
Philco Car Radio (optional at extra cost).
THE FORD V-8 ENGINE: More than 3 million
owners are already enjoying the superior performance
of the Ford V-8 engine. Service records and the recent
Australia-wide test have proved this V-8 the most
economical of all Ford engines. No engine is built to
a finer quality standard; the simplicity and precision
of its design mean long trouble-free life and genuine
operating economy. The world trend is to the V-type
engine—Ford gives you this modern power unit at the
most economical cost.
FORD V-fl
T he P roved Economy Car
BUY FROM YOUR LOCAL FORD DEALER
FORD MOTOR COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD. (INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA).
AN ANNIVERSARY.
(BY “IL VECCHIO.”)
On September 23 there was opened
in Rome a huge exhibition of historical
material as a national celebration of the
2000th anniversary of the birth of the
Emperor Augustus.
Augustus already has his monu-
ments. A month in the year bears his
name in almost every European lan-
guage. Every great modern nation has
claimed its Augustan age. Himself no
conqueror, Augustus ushered in an era of
conquest which cemented the dominion
of Rome from the Euphrates to Trafal-
gar, from the Tweed far down into the
Libyan desert.
And Roman life sucked in the culture
and beauty and richness of Greece and
Egypt. Splendid theatres and monuments
reared themselves throughout the
Empire. Water supply and sewerage such
as the world was not to see again for
many centuries rose in every Roman
town. The dominions were rich (Asia
Minor alone had its hundred cities). They
were connected to the capital by fast
main roads. Aqueducts ran across the
countryside. Signalling communication
was so perfected that it was said to be
possible to talk from the Bosphorus to
Rome within an hour. Roman bridges
of the first centuries a.d. still span the
rivers of Europe and Asia. Great build-
ings—the Pantheon in Rome itself is
one —have survived.
For nearly 2000 years the Latin lan-
guage has been the basic tongue of
scholarship. Roman philosophy, politics,
engineering, architecture, agriculture and
surgery were ancestors of most of the
modern systems. Roman law is imper-
ishable.
Augustus—a plebeian in origin—was
the first constitutional monarch, as his
great-uncle Caesar was the first Kaiser
in the modern sense. Roman blood
grafted its characteristics into every race
which the Romans conquered. The very
phrases which rang in the Roman Senate,
in which debates were caught in short-
hand, fall from the lips of Senators, at
Canberra —“vast and untouched re-
sources of this great Empire.”
The Roman Empire fell, but Rome
remained. During the ages, when all
Europe was dark and bloody ground,
the Roman Church kept art and litera-
ture and morality alive. More than
1300 years after Augustus, Italy had its
Dante and its Boccaccio. Sixteen hundred
years after him, Medicis, Colonnas, Fos-
caris governed in Italian cities as vigor-
ously as any Roman emperor had done,
while round them flourished Machia-
vellis, Raphaels, Titians, Michaelangelos,
Da Vincis and Cellinis. Columbus and
Amerigo Vespucci were men of Italy.
The eighteenth century brought Bona-
parte ; the nineteenth, Garibaldi, Verdi,
Carducci, d’Annunzio; the twentieth,
Mussolini and Marconi —all men with
Roman faces and Roman minds.
At the height of the Augustan era, the
Roman people had, according to modern
notions, almost everything that makes
life worth living. They had power,
riches stored on riches, vast colonies.
Their race tolerance was unparalleled,
even when it touched the inter-marrying
of Romans with colored peoples.
They failed at the very points at
which our modern life is being tested.
Their ample leisure was expanded till
the Roman worked for only half the
year. They had the dole and the cir-
cus ; pacifists who loved a shady bough
and a bottle of wine better than military
training ; sex freedom ; Roman counter-
parts of the nigger musician and the
doctrinaire. Luxury and ease sapped
their vitality. The birthrate fell except
among the sections of the community
which were least worth reproducing.
Old Rome went down in sack and
pillage. The magnificent ruins of Tim-
gad and Palmyra became white ghosts
ir. the desert. Everything Roman except
a core of Roman genius and inspiration
died.
Britain owes much to Rome, as do its
offspring Dominions. With the Roman
occupation, English civilised history
began. British motor traffic roars over
roads surveyed by Romans, and Britain
remembers that Roman emperors were
born on British soil —Constantine the
Great among them. A hundred great
British towns and cities—London, York,
Chester, Winchester, Gloucester, Bath,
Dorchester, Exeter, Lincoln, Canterbury,
Manchester, Carlisle, Doncaster—grew
from Roman settlements. So Britain and
Australia—the name of which is written
in Latin, as that of America is the name
of a Latin—can share in the pride of
Italy, and reflect with satisfaction that
peace and friendship have existed
between the British and Italian races
since the days of the Caesars.


WILCOX SMITH i CO
Postage Stamp Merchants,
Liverpool Street,
Dunedin, N.Z.
16 Page Buying and
Selling .List Free.
Established 49 years.
Bankers: The Union.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors— James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; ffm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager— D. S. FORBES.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 98
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N.; S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, tins
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
PRACTICALLY A CAREER
FOR £l/11/6
Write for details of the new remarkable
composite Short Story-Journalistic Course.
METROPOLITAN SCHOOL OF
JOURNALISM,
C Dailey Street, Sydney.
Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Young man (21). Melb. public-school, uni-
versity education, legal and freelance journalist
exp., wants job on city or country newspaper or
magazine, advertising agency or continuity dept.,
radio station. —7202.
Two young men, Vic., experienced, want
harvesting work in N.S.W. about middle of
October; one able to drive tractor; both able
to drive teams. —7181.
Gentleman, Melbourne, wide legal exp., know-
ledge modern languages, prepared to undertake
research work at Melb. General and Supreme
Court libraries for authors and country solici-
tors. —7207.
Young woman philatelist desires to exchange
stamps with resident in any of the Pacific
islands.—7187.
To buy copies of “Blackwood’s Magazine”
prior to 1926 and later than 1930.—7194.
To buy Basil Lubbock’s Last of the Clipper
Packets. —7215.
To buy copy of Australian periodical con-
taining short story entitled “The Pilgrimage,”
by Thomas Gilchrist. —7229.
To exchange Instantaneous Personal Mag-
netism for any other books, Australian pre-
ferred.—7173,
Information Sought.
(1) When was the first authenticated discovery
of gold in Australia made ? (2) Particulars of
the occasion when an early discoverer of gold
in Australia was requested by the Governor of
the time to keep the matter secret? —7228.
(1) That of assistant-surveyor James McBrien,
who recorded in a field-book (still in existence)
on February 15, 1823, that near the Fish River,
between Rydal and Bathurst (N.S.W.), he found
“numerous particles of gold in the sand on the
hills convenient to river.” (2) In 1839 Strzelecki
discovered auriferous pyrites near Hartley, just
beyond the Blue Mountains. He furnished a
report to the Government on the subject, but
stated that the pyrites yielded a very small
proportion of gold, sufficient to attest its
presence, insufficient to repay its extraction.
Gipps asked him to keep the matter secret “for
fear of the serious consequences which, con-
sidering the condition and population of the
colony, were to be apprehended.”
* * * *
/ understand that Edward Eyre, the explorer,
was in after years, while Governor of a British
colony in the West Indies, involved in a scandal
arising out of the hanging of a negro. Can
you give details? —7208.
In 1865, while Governor of Jamaica, he was
confronted with a serious negro mutiny,
promptly suppressed it, and in doing so irregu-
larly hanged a negro member of the local Legis-
lature who was undoubtedly an agitator among
the mutineers. The ensuing scandal caused his
reprimand and recall; but in England an outcry
against him, led by John Stuart Mill, T. H.
Huxley and Herbert Spencer, was counterbal-
anced by a body of supporters, among whom
Carlyle, Ruskin and Tennyson were prominent,
and the final result of much agitation and two
legal trials was that in July, 1872, the Glad-
stone Ministry, with the approval of Parlia-
ment, paid his legal expenses from public funds.
In 1874 Disraeli allotted Eyre the pension due
to a retired colonial Governor, and he lived in
seclusion from that time until his death on
November 30, 1901.
* * * *
What is meant by inferiority and superiority
complexes ? —7146.
By the term “inferiority complex” is meant
a condition in which the assertive behavior
of certain people is due to a desire to com-
pensate for an imagined or real weakness, de-
fect or inferiority. It may show itself in various
forms, as when a sufferer takes refuge in
illness and tyrannises over his immediate circle.
Some think that the inferiority complex is fre-
quently an incentive to individual advance-
ment and progress. The case of Demosthenes,
a stammerer who became an orator, is often
quoted as a classical example. The sufferer
from a “superiority complex” commonly
assumes an air of importance and superiority
which is not based on fact.
* * * *
(1) Are there buffaloes in the N.T. ? (2) Have
these animals very large horns? (3) When en-
raged, do they bellow like bulls ? —7091.
(1) The Indian “water” buffalo, which subse-
quently spread throughout the Malay Archi-
pelago, was introduced to the N.T. many years
ago. (2) The length of the horns is consider-
able, reaching a maximum of 12ft. overall, at
least in India, but averaging considerably less
in North Australia, and probably not exceeding
8ft., apparently influenced by changed condi-
tions. (3) According to reports of famous
hunters, the animals are rather silent but able
to emit some kind of roar or bellow —whether
like that of a bull or otherwise is a matter
of opinion.
* * * *
Can a qualified elector in a N.S.W. local gov-
ernment area inspect without charge the accounts
of his local council or shire? What can he do
if he objects to any of the items? —7256.
Any elector has the right to inspect the
accounts of a council, but where the inspection
is of the valuation book a person who is not
the owner of the land the valuations of which
he requires to see, or the owner of adjoining
land, may be charged a fee to be fixed by the
council. If the elector objects to any item
of the accounts he may lodge an objection with
the mayor or president or the auditor, and the
auditor must report to the Minister.
H* v -i-
Aboriginal names suitable for a homestead in
the midst of a plain? —722l.
Awaba, “plain surface”; Bolygenup, “a
large plain”; Graman, “big plain”; Kielli, “ex-
tended plain” ; Mallawa, “flat country” ; Merri-
gum, “a little plain”; Tatchera, “a large plain”;
Tingha, “flat or level”; Warrangesta, “a camp
on flat country.”
* * * *
Description of the Gallipoli Star issued to
members of the Turkish Army who fought on
Gallipoli?— 723l.
It is correctly named “Turkish Star for Galli-
poli Campaign,” and consists of a five-pointed
white-metal star, each ray tipped with a small
white-metal ball, edged with white metal and
filled in with red enamel. The centre is sur-
rounded by a white-metal crescent, inside which,
on a red enamel ground, appears the Sultan’s
cypher and the characters representing “El
Ghaza” (The Victorious); below appears the
date “333” (1915). The reverse is quite plain,
with a brooch-pin two-thirds of the way up,
to which the ribbon is attached. The ribbon
is scarlet moire, with a white stripe towards
each edge.
* * * *
(1) Full title of the Governor of Queensland?
(2) Names of the members of the Queensland
Ministry ? —7249.
(1) His Excellency Colonel the Right Honor-
able Sir Leslie Orme Wilson, G.C.5.1., G.C.1.E.,
C.M.G., D.S.O. (2) William Forgan Smith
(Premier), Percy Pease (Lands), M. P. Hynes
(Labor and Industry), T. A. Foley (Mines),
John Mullan (Attorney-General), H. A. Bruce
(Public Works), F. A. Cooper (Public Instruc-
tion), F. W. Bulcock (Agriculture), E. M.
Hanlon (Health and Home Affairs), John Dash
(Transport).
* * * He
Excise duty paid in Australia last year for
(1) the various kinds of spirits and (2) beer?
—7238.
(1) Brandy £235,858, gin £309,909, whisky
£204,566, rum £472,586, liqueurs £5126, spirits
(n.e.i.) £66, spirits for industrial or scientific
purposes £143,277, spirits for fortifying wine
£246,192, spirits for making vinegar £1914,
spirits for the manufacture of scent £54,377,
amylic alcohol and fusel oil £4O, concentrated
grape must £1927, total spirits £1,675,838. (2)
£5,660,421.
* * *
To what countries did Australia export sheep
last year for (1) ordinary and (2) breeding pur-
poses? State quantity and value. —7246.
(1) British Malaya, 55,425 valued at £22,800;
Fiji, 1510 at £1545; other British Pacific Islands,
31 at £36; other British countries, 262 at £331;
foreign Pacific Islands, 20 at £l7. (2) New
Zealand, 401 at £6302; South Africa, 115 at
£978 ; other British countries, 115 at £146; Japan,
8596 at £22,373; other foreign countries, 32
at £451. Figures are for 1935-36.
Hi H* Hi Hi
How long does the crow take to hatch her
eggs, and for what period does she keep her
young on the nest ? —6960.
Incubation is about 18 to 21 days, the chicks
hatching out at intervals corresponding to date
of laying of eggs. The chicks remain in the
nest about three weeks.
Hi Hi Hi Hi
(1) At what Sydney hospitals do vacancies
exist for midwifery trainees ? (2) What premium
is required by such hospitals, and what salary
is paid trainees ? (3) Do trainees receive free
board and lodging, and are they provided with
uniforms? (4) What period would a nurse
who has received training outside N.S.W. have
to serve before securing her midwifery certifi-
cate ? (5) Where can further information be
obtained ? —7203.
(1) At Royal Women, Royal North Shore, South
Sydney Women’s, St. Margaret’s and Crown-
street Women’s. (2) No salary is paid to trainees,
and no payments are required from them except
in the case of the Crown-street Hospital,
which requires £1 Is. to be lodged with applica-
tion. (3) Trainees are provided with free board
and lodgings and laundry; not uniforms. (4)
Nine months: she must be registered as a
general trained nurse by the N.S.W. Nurses’
Registration Board prior to entering upon train-
ing. (5) From the Registrar, Nurses’ Registra-
tion Board, Winchcombe House, Bridge-street,
Sydney.
* * * *
Some details concerning the Cato House con-
spiracy? What happened to the conspirators
who were transported to N. S. Wales? —7260.
A gang of desperate men, headed by Arthur
Thistlewood, assembled in Cato-street, off Edge-
ware-road, London, and plotted to assassinate
Ministers at a Cabinet dinner given by the
Earl of Harrowby on February 23, 1820. All
were betrayed, arrested and convicted of high
treason. Thistlewood, Brunt, Davidson, Ings
and Tidd were executed as traitors on May 1,
and the five others transported to N. S. Wales.
The five were James Wilson, Charles Cooper,
John Harrison, Richard Bradburn and John
Shaw Strange. Soon after his arrival, Strange
was given a ticket-of-leave for capturing single-
handed a notorious bushranger named Robert
Story; he became chief constable at Bathurst
(N.S.W.) and was dreaded by all criminals in
his district. Wilson acted as constable under
Strange, and, after receiving a ticket-of-leave
for his services, became the principal tailor
at Bathurst. Harrison became the principal
baker in the same town.
* * * *
A few partiiculars concerning scrub-robins ?
7211.
Two species of scrub-robins {Drymodes) occur
in Australia and a third in New Guinea and the
Aru Islands. They are shy, rather smaller than
ground-thrushes, chestnut-brown above and
dirty-white below, usually frequenting stony
ground in open scrub country, and spending
most of their time moving by fits and starts
along the ground. They utter a sharp whistling
note. One species, D. brunneopygius, is found
in the inland districts of the southern States;
the other, D. Superciliaris, in the Northern
Territory and northern Queensland. They build
open, cup-shaped nests of sticks, bark and
leaves on the ground, at the foot of a tree or
bush, and lay two or three white or greyish eggs,
blotched with brown.
Hi ❖ H« *
What does a banded anteater look like, where
is it to be found, and what does it eat ? —6961.
Its size is that of a rat or squirrel; it has a
light, graceful body, broad head and elongated,
sharp muzzle, pointed ears, long, flexible bushy
tail, and rather slender limbs, the hind pair
longer than the fore. The rather coarse fur is
reddish on the upper surface, darkening behind
and crossed by nine bands of white; a white
band occurs over the eye; the lower surface is
pale yellow. The fore limb has five clawed
digits, the hind limb only four. The teeth
are remarkable on account of their number,
which is greater than in any other marsupial
oi; mammal except the American armadillo and
certain cetacea. The female has no pouch.
The marsupial anteater is found only in cer-
tain districts of S.A. and W.A. It is not noc-
turnal, but licks up its food, mainly ants and
other insects, by daylight.
He Hi ❖ *
(1) History of the Koh-i-noor diamond? (2)
Meaning of Koh-i-noor? —7160.
Records show that in 1304 the Koh-i-noor
diamond fell into the hands of the Mogul em-
perors, although legend traces it back to about
4000 years previously. Remaining at Delhi
until the invasion of n.-w. India by the Nadir
Shah in 1739, it passed with other spoils into
the hands of the conqueror. When he died
his empire fell to pieces, and after many vicissi-
tudes the diamond . was acquired by Runjit
Singh at Lahore, whose successors kept it until
the fall of Sikh power in 1850, when the stone
passed to the East India Company, in whose
name it was presented to Queen Victoria by
Lord Dalhousie. In 1862 it was recut in the
form of a shallow brilliant, reducing its weight
from 186 1-16 to 106 1-16 carats. It is the
property of the English royal family and is
valued at £IOO,OOO. (2) Mound of light;
si: * * *
(1) Some biographical details concerning Sir
Joseph Barnby, the English musical composer
and conductor? (2) Was he a prolific com-
poser?—722o.
(1) Son of Thomas Barnby, an organist, he
was born at York in 1838, educated at the Royal
Academy of Music under Cipriani Potter and
Charles Lucas, and was appointed in 1862
organist of St. Andrew’s, Wells-street, London,
where he raised the services to a high degree
of excellence. In 1871 he was appointed, in
succession to Gounod, conductor of the Albert
Hall Choral Society, a post he held till his death.
In 1875 he was precentor and director of music
at Eton, and in 1892 became principal of the
Guildhall School of Music, receiving the honor
of knighthood in July of that year. He died
in London in 1896. (2) His works include
an oratorio, “Rebekah, Ps. xcvii,” many services
and anthems and 246 hymn tunes, as well as
some part-songs (among them the popular
“Sweet and Low”) and some pieces for the
organ.
* * # *
What is the title of the old story, by one of
the early English writers, of a dandyish fellow
in love with the young wife of an elderly but
wealthy carpenter ? —6034.
“The Miller’s Tale,” one of the Canterbury
Tales, by Chaucer.
* * * *
Translation of the following quotation from
Cicero: “Pietate ac religione, atque hac una
sapientia, quod Deorum immortalium numine
omnia regi gubernarique perspeximus, omnes
gentes nationesque superavimus ?” —7242.
“By reverence and religion, and this, the only
wisdom, that all things are ruled and governed
by the disposition of the immortal gods, we
have subdued all nations and races.”
* * * *
Particulars of the art competitions being con-
ducted by the Anzac Festival Committee ?
7178.
(1) Design for bookplate for Anzac Festival
Committee. Designs may be in any medium to
reduce to approximately 4in. by sin. Entry
fee, 25.; prize, £2 2s. (2) Design for poster for
the Anzac eve festival performance. Size, 15in.
by 22in.; three or four colors. Entry fee, 25.;
prize, order for books to the value of £2 2s.
(3) Design for programme cover for Anzac eve
festjval. Size, 9in. by s|in.; one or two colors.
Entry fee, 25.; prize, order for books to the
value of £2 2s. (4) Closing date for all entries,
November 30, 1937. Each entry must bear the
competitor’s name and address on back of
design. Entries and fees to be sent to the
secretary, Anzac Festival Committee, Scot
Chambers, Hosking-place (off 86 Pitt-street),
Sydney.
* * * *
What is (1) t.b. spine, (2) spondylitis, (3)
osteopathic condition and (4) osteo-arthritis ?
6859.
(1) The result of the invasion of some part
of the spinal column by the germ of tubercu-
losis. 5 The diseased bone is frequently de-
stroyed, undergoing what is called necrosis with
the formation of abscesses. The malady is
commonly called Pott’s disease, (2) The term
applied to any inflammation of a vertebra, one
of the bony blocks of which the spinal column
is composed. (3) (a) Any disease of a bone or
(b) any condition treated by osteopathy, a system
of medicine in which diseases are treated by
manipulating the bones and by other mechani-
cal procedure intended to restore the deranged
mechanism of the body. (4) Inflammation of
the bones and joints, usually marked by thicken-
ing of the joint membranes and by swelling of
the ends of the bones.
Brief Answers.
C.P.: Appointments to the C’wealth Meteoro-
logical Bureau are made by the C’wealth Public
Service Board, Canberra. Junior positions are
usually filled from the successful candidates sit-
ting for examinations held from time to time
and advertised in the “Commonwealth Public
Service Gazette.” In January last, however,
applications were invited (now closed) from
officers within and outside the service lor
certain positions in connection with aviation
meteorological services. For particulars of age,
qualifications, etc., see “Gazette,” January 7.
Should any further similar appointments be
contemplated, applications will be invited
in “Gazette” M.C.G.: Would need to see
prospectus before advising... .P.J.G.: (1) You
say .you are “not in the position to seek the
aid of solicitors,” but even with their aid you
would be up against a very formidable
opponent with ample means to engage the best
legal assistance. You should think twice before
launching into litigation even if you could
find the means to do so. (2) and (3) If the
case went to court you could call for the pro-
duction of the correspondence. To establish
a claim against your employer you would have
to show that it was due to his negligence that
your claim failed. The Registrar of the Workers’
Compensation Commission, Savings Bank Build-
ing, Sydney, might be able to advise and assist
you H.F.H.: (1) Would depend on the terms
of the policy, but, speaking generally, such
policies cover the contents of the home only
so long as they remain in the home. If re-
moved, the cover ceases. (2) Comes under the
Common Law principles of bailment, “On the
deposit of goods for reward with a bailee he
undertakes to use proper care that the goods
shall be safely kept from loss or injury.” If
the laundry-keeper can show that he took all
reasonable care to secure the household linen
in question from the risk of fire he would not
be responsible for the loss J.C.W.: (1) and
(2) If he confines the ramp within his own
property he may build it to his own plan but
without menace to the public; if, however,
it trespasses on the public road he must, if
allowed to build at all, build it to the specifica-
tions of the Main Roads Board. (3) and (4)
As you are the offender in allowing the horse
to stray you have no redress W.S.: Write
Copyright Office, C’wealth Bank Chambers,
Martin-place, Sydney... .D.E.F.: (1) A com-
plete set of electoral rolls for the whole State
(N.S.W.) would cost you 565., procurable from
the Government Printer, Bent-street, Sydney.
The metropolitan (Sydney) roll comprises 14
parts, 2s. each. The approximate cost for the
transmission of the complete set by boat or
goods train, the cheapest course, would be
approximately ss. (2) The purchaser of the
property would no doubt require a clear title.
The Real Property Act (N.S.W.) makes pro-
vision for the transmission of land in such
circumstances as you state. In the absence of
a certificate of death the Registrar-General may
accept “such other evidence of the death as
appears to him sufficient,” and should there be
no will may take into consideration “such
evidence of his title as the applicant is able
to produce.” Should the Registrar-General be
satisfied that you are entitled to the land, then
on the surrender of the certificate you hold a
new one would be issued. Probably you will
require professional assistance... .J.M.K.: (1)
It is not customary, but does not invalidate the
will. (2) If there is evidence that he was men-
tally capable at the time he signed that is suffi-
cient. Subsequent incapacity does not affect
the matter P.W.: Dymock’s Book Arcade,
424 George-street, Sydney, will buy the books
if in good condition ... .E.M.1.-J.: Graphs are
a bit indeterminate. Commonsense method of
assessment, since the test is judgment of rela-
tive prowess of the teams, would award the
verdict to A, who predicts a score 14-9, ratio
I. to 1. Actual score was 13-7, ratio 1.859
to k B’s guess was 13-10, ratio 1.3 to 1, A’s
error is 0.304, B’s 0.559 A.S.R.: Distilla-
tion of whisky without a license is illegal
H. : (1) Yes. (2) This page is for answering
questions, not for expressing opinions
C.M.: Beach won his first title by defeating
Ned Hanlan (of Canada) on the Parramatta
River on August 16, 1884. Beach was never
defeated, and retired on November 27, 1887.
W.M.C.: Write Cinesound Productions, Ltd.,
65 Ebley-street, Waverley, Sydney... .P.H.:
Sturt-street, Ballarat, is three chains wide....
R.W.8.: A horse suited to a particular course
or race G.0.C.: Formula did not appear
in the Service page. Cannot trace one to meet
your requirements... .E.G.F.: Cannot indicate
preferences in such matters F.T.F.: The
President of the United States is usually, and
properly, spoken to as “Mr. President”; in
writing to him, “My dear Mr. President” is
good usage, and so is “Dear Mr. President”
J. : If benzine fails, try eucalyptus or a
dilute solution of ammonia J.D.: Training
schools for nurses are attached to the follow-
ing American hospitals: St. Vincent’s, Los
Angeles, Cal.; Mount Zion, San Francisco, Cal.;
Providence, Washington, D.C.; Presbyterian,
Chicago, 111.; Bellevue, New York," N.Y
I. : Write Dept, of Agriculture, Bridge-street,
Sydney... .L.C.: Yes, The Bulletin’s permis-
sion is necessary, and in such cases is never
given unless the consent of the author is
obtained beforehand... .W.M.1.: The concern
is genuine, but you need to exercise caution
as to your selection of agents... .M.K.8.: The
C.S. and I.R. uses in some cases white arsenic
and in others Paris green, blown into the centre
of the mounds. In infested buildings it is recom-
mended that these arsenical poisons be not
used, but that a sodium fluosilicate powder be
used instead. Detailed methods of control are
discussed in the council’s Trade Circular No.
36, which is available on application to the
council, 314 Albert-street, East Melbourne
A.W.: You are right. “Board” is singular, and
carries the singular form of verb K.D.: In-
advisable to proceed to any of the places men-
tioned without obtaining a position beforehand.
Approach Island traders with offices in Sydney.
A.R.W.: (1) Communicate with the Man-
ager, Rice Marketing Board, Leeton (N.S.W.).
(2) See pages 657 to 664 of the Commonwealth
Year-Book, 1936, and for a wheat harvest cal-
endar page 20 of the Com Trade Year-Book,
1937. Both books should be available at the
Public Library, Perth (Many others mailed.)


SHE WAS AFRAID TO
SHAKE HANDS
Rheumatism in Joints
Caused Her Intense Pain
Rheumatism affects its victims in many
curious and inconvenient ways. In the case of
this woman, she dared not shake hands with
people because of the pain it caused her as a
result of rheumatism in the joints. This con-
dition lasted for several years, until she hit on
the right remedy—Kruschen Salts. Read her
letter:
“For several years I suffered with rheumatism
of the joints, especially in my hands, and this
caused me intense pain. I was even afraid to
shake hands with anyone, for it made me
suffer terribly. I began taking Kruschen Salts
regularly, and after a little while my pains dis-
appeared completely. I am naturally delighted
with Kruschen.” —(Miss) K.
The pains and stiffness of rheumatism are
caused by deposits of uric acid crystals in the
muscles and joints. The six salts in Kruschen
stimulate your liyer and kidneys to healthy,
regular action, and assist them to get rid of this
excess uric acid which is the cause of all your
suffering.
Great Cough Remedy
Wonderful Money-saver.
For the last twenty years millions of
Australians have saved much money by
making their own family cough and
influenza remedy with HEENZO. It is
so easy to add a two-shilling bottle of
concentrated HEENZO to sweetened
water, and fhus make a large supply
I of cough remedy equal in quantity and
superior in quality to about £l’s worth
of the best of the ready-made-up
remedies for chest and throat ailments.
The purity of HEENZO makes it an ideal
cough remedy for babies as well as adults.
THE
lIMITCniNSURANCE
U ll I I C U COMPANY LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1862.
Head Office:
GEORGE g HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL - - £1,000,000
All classes of Fire, Marine and
Accident Insurances effected at
Lowest Current Rates.
The “United” is an Australian Institution.
A. C. DAWSON, T. C. REYNOLDS,
Gen. Manager. Asst. Gen. Manager.
X
\
X
iiiii
.liiii
msmp ■«
.<4#llliP
I
The best blades ever made!
Electrically Tempered
BLUE GILLETTES
• have stronger edges
• have harder edges
• have keener edges
• they last longer
• they shave better
Packet of Five 1/6
BLUE GILLETT
ELECTRICALLY-TEMPERED BLADES
y
7
F
GILLETTE RAZORS S
AND BLADES are
made for each other ,
, ...r.V. jjg^PiP
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
tSo notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should
be addressed to the Editor, not to members of the staff personally.
H.8.J.: Yes, there’s humor in it. But, to
parody “Hiawatha” successfully, you must re-
frain from splitting trochees in halves to meet
metrical requirements... .C.C.: It won’t d 0....
B. : Far from meeting with our approval,
your attempts to rhyme “foam” with “moan”
and “bow” with “cowl” exasperate u 5....
C. : You’re still a long way below publi-
cation level... .G.A.M.: Read Tennyson’s
“Brook” again and mourn for your own de-
ficiencies... .G.M.: No illustrater on earth
could make that passable... .E.S.: At least you
have a lively fancy and some facility for jug-
gling with words. Try again H.H.: Hun-
dreds of contributed paragraphs reach us weekly.
All of them are read; many appear; but to
indicate, however briefly, why many more don’t
is utterly impossible... .T.C.W.: Your good
wishes are warmly appreciated and reciprocated.
... .K.M.: “Fowlyard” was just a few pages of
inconsequential cackle... .G.E.: Not for u 5....
H.T.: “The Desert” was dreadfully barren....
D. : 75 p.c. follow that track M.G.W.:
No return from “Bread Upon the Waters”....
C. : Nearly got there... .A.D.C.: “The
Marksman” missed K.F.: Nothing to it....
T.F.: Condensed it might find a niche some-
where... .8.P.: “Uppercut” began well, but
developed into a wild swing J.K.P.: Doesn’t
make a yarn... .E.F.G.: “Below the Belt” was
disqualified L.J.C.: Not interested in that
type of article A.E.K.: You should im-
prove with practice M.R.L.: Deeply stirred
after reading “The Tragedy of a Bullfrog”....
L.F.: Possibilities, but more laughs needed....
D. : Off our beat... .J.P.P.: Just another
borderliner F.P.N.: “River” ran dry after
the first two pages J.N.1.; You don’t strike
our needs F.A.: Same for you N.D.R.:
We prefer a bird in hand to “Two in the Bush.”
W.J.M.: Might work elsewhere C.G.S.:
Interesting, but don’t know where you could
place it E.D.S.: Too slight 8.A.K.: We
know that gardener-ma-in-law yarn by heart.
. ...J.L.: You’ve a lot to learn M.T.: Por-
trait of a policeman; “He walked with a slight
limp, had big feet and a wart on his nose which
accentuated his queer, ungainly gait”... .1.M.:
Missed... .H.S.: “Portrait of a Child” was
poorly painted W.D.Y.: If you have to
borrow your yarns don’t send them to us
N.8.L.: Du 11... .F.S.: “Stuffing” helped to fill
the basket... .H.L.G.: Flat as stale beer....
J. 8.: Neatly done, and you might place it—
but not here M.M.: The fire burnt itself
out... .1.M.M.: Can’t give that candidate a
vote 8.T.: Not for us the “Charms of Tre-
wonga” J.R.G.: “The glint of power in the
depths of those cool blue eyes” didn’t deter
us from warning that gangster off the premises.
A.B.: “Escape” just failed to get away....
P.S.K.: That swaggie comes in for a handout
at least twice a month N. 8.: We’re not
really interested in “stirring tales of adventure
in the. service of the Crown” R.N.G.: Take
that half-hearted lover away R.L.: And the
girl who couldn’t decide whether she “ought
to” got on our nerves before the third page.
R.D.R.: Nothing much wrong with it;
nothing very new about it, either 0.8. A.:
It just ripples on and on and gets nowhere.
... .J.K.: Stodgy.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
G.W.: Gag is antiquated W.D.: Youi
progress towards perfection is slow J.Q.:
Office-boy’s patriotic cheer awakened no echo
here P.W.: Why are the couple about to be
married standing half-way down the aisle?
C.R.D.: The jagged linework suggests that you
used a pile of broken bottles, as your model
J.H.: Awkward figures put the drawing out of
court... .F.F.: Jest as tame as skim-milk;
drawing the same....J.L.K.: They bandied that
jest in the camps of the Crusaders... .M.T.:
Can’t subscribe to the theory that man looks
like a coffin J.R.: Spare us from the illus-
trated Latin proverb E.M.: Strive for a
more decisive line... .A.M.T.: Even in kinder-
garten circles such a sketch would cut no ice.
B.W.: Returning the curate in plus-fours;
also the flapper with the Chippendale legs
F. 8.: One of its many faults is the mishandling
of shadows... .P.C.P.: What lost race does that
queer tea-salesman represent? A.C.F.:
Might do for your friends’ autograph albums.
....E.H.T.: Faces without noses or ears....
J.K.: The background is slipshod....S.L.: All
lack an essential something in drawing and
humor 8.5.: Depressing gag M.P.:
Sketches done in “a few spare moments”
generally look like it C.H.: When did you
see a chorus girl displaying so many angles and
such legs? R.M.: Only thing right about
dog is number of feet J.M.: At that rate
you might creep into print before your hair
grows grey P.C.: About five thousand small
scratchy lines hopelessly arranged F.D.:
Lack of artistic knowledge ruled it 0ut....
R.L.: Features somewhat resemble his Excel-
lency, but he seems to have been tailored by ah
old-clo’ man E.F.: You send us a batch of
smudged crayon drawings on brown paper and
ask for a staff job. Begone!... .W.R.: About
as interesting as a star chart.
CHARLES BRYANT’S POSTHUMOUS SHOW.
It’s at Anthony Horderns’ Galleries,
Sydney. The show is quite the best of the
long Bryant series ; in the last few years
the painter, always a patient and
judicious experimenter, greatly improved
his methods of expression, and in such
harborside studies as “Drying the Blue
Nets,” “Douarnenez,” “Showery
“Showery Weather, Concarneau,” in the posthumous show of Charles
Bryant’s paintings at Anthony Horderns’ Galleries.
Weather, Concarneau” (reproduced on
this page) and “Lyme Regis” he achieved
f „ i- ... & . * u- u u
successfully light,ng effects for which he
had long striven.
His big canvas panoramming London’s
Ludgate Hill, hung in the ’36 Royal
Academy show, shows Bryant’s mastery
i. y y
rcmtectural proportion, perspective
and color. “Storm Clouds Over Tilbury,”
another big picture, is a grand piece of
sky-painting.
The water-gala scenes in which Bryant
delighted, and which he could paint
so merrily, are well represented—“Cowes
Regatta” and the Sydney “Head of the
River” series, 1924, 1925, 1926, 1928,
stand out.
In the show are many small pictures
which, as far as this critic can recollect,
have not been shown before. Slighter
and broader in treatment than Bryant’s
large-scale work, they have an element
of spontaneity and charm which some of
the more elaborate pictures miss. “A
Summer’s Eve,” for instance —golden-
winged yachts on a golden sea —has a
Turneresque piquancy. Those little pic-
tures are worth close study.


tfi
m
is n
fi. i " h a\
: |
’V--. ,■■•:' ■:
1
'
KHMI
HMHHI
■ ■ K'V'j ‘
■
tw . v
r®k-»' . • » f'
H l*
A typical Country
Seen e —a n d a
typical Hat for the
Country
In the saddle all day long-
under sweltering heat. That's
when the horseman appreciate
good attire. An ordinary hat.
for instance, may give comfort,
but the “Track” Riding Ha!
gives the ultimate in wea:
appearance and comfort.
The “TRACK ”
RIDING HAT
The “Track” Riding Hat is of dashing style and
comfort. Its extremely wide leaf, measuring 4|in.,
ensures maximum comfort in sun and glare. The
“Track” is made of Pure Fur Felt and is
available in Fawn or Black, with Self Band.
When ordering from Pike pripf
Brothers, Limited, Queen Street, ,
Brisbane, do not forget to state 39/6
colour preferred and your size.
PIKE BROTHERS
LIMITED
In Queen Street -
Brisbane
NO MORE TAXATION-RETURN
PROBLEMS
The Primary Producer’s Account Book
costs you £l,
but that includes the free preparation of your Income Tax
Return by
H. Rawson Stevenson,
a taxation expert, who by his thorough knowledge of
taxation methods will see that you claim the maximum
deductions, and thus save yourself many times over the
cost of the book, and endless worry.
Read what one purchaser says:
“I am enclosing my cheque for £3/0/6 to pay for three
copies of the Primary Producer’s Account Book. I showed
the book I had already bought from you to three of my
farmer sons, so they are now each wanting one, as it is
something we have been wanting a long time.
—H.K.R. (Bogan Gate, N.S.W.)
Forward cheque for £l (plus exchange) to
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO. PTY. LTC).,
252 George Street (Box 252 IBB). Sydney,
and the Primary Producer’s Account Book will be sent you
post free.
A Genuine Battle of Giants
Whatever may be thought of the quali-
ties, as boxers, of Louis and Farr, they
are certainly two of the heaviest men
that ever fought for the championship in
the same ring. Of recent times, only
Johnson, Jeffries and Willard exceeded
their avoirdupois to any considerable ex-
tent. Dempsey was a lighter man than
any of the five, and his opponents in title
bouts, apart from Willard and Firpo,
were much less beefy than Louis and
Farr —for example, Carpentier, Gibbons
and Miske.
Fitzsimmons, at his best, was only a
middleweight. Corbett was a 13-stoner,
and he fought middleweights—Mitchell,
Fitz and (after he lost the title) McCoy.
Sydney on September 24, 1895, was the
scene of a fight between men far taller
and heavier than Louis and Farr; and
never was greater punishment given and
taken. The combatants were Dick
Barker, a Queenslander of Irish descent,
and Harry Placke, a Dutchman.
Placke had arrived in Sydney by way
of Maoriland with a challenge to
swi?'.mers. He said he would swim any
man any distance —five to twenty-five
miles —anywhere—enclosed baths, Sydney
Harbor or Pacific Ocean —for love or
money. Nobody taking up the challenge,
he said he would fight any man on the
same terms, and Barker accommodated
him.
Barker was also a comparative stranger
to Sydney. He had come down from
the north with an introduction to Larry
Foley, and Larry had put him on as job-
bing gardener so that he might work for
his coaching and his board and lodging.
“What do you think of me pupil?” he
said to a horse-trainer, after putting the
giant through his paces in the gymnasium.
“My oath,” said the trainer, “ain’t he
long in the cannons?” There was quite a
foot of bare bone and sinew up from
the ankle before the Barker calf began.
The larrikins who attended “Griffo”
had given boxing a bad name, and the
depression of ’93 had completed the tale
of misfortune. It was hoped by Foley
and the Fancy that the meeting of the
two giants would result in the great days
of Jackson, Lees and Slavin being re-
stored. Vain hope!
They fought in a 24ft. ring whose
upper ropes were bound with red cloth.
At first these red ropes had no meaning ;
but they acquired a terrible significance
when they marked the bounds of the
arena of blood, and strained and groaned
under the weight of Placke.
In one corner sat Barker, with Dooley,
Dunn and Seymour, all famous pugs,
standing behind him. Opposite, seconded
by Tom Taylor, Thompson and Floyd,
sat Placke, a great handsome, wholesome-
looking, honest - faced, clear - skinned
Dutchman. The groups had only two
unscientific men —the two principals.
A Sydney civic official and two turf-
men were timekeepers; Mr. Colonel
Macdonald, as the ring-steward put it,
was referee. And the crowd which had
come to the bloody feast was addressed
as “gentlemen,” and politely requested
to keep silence when the referee should
count the seconds over a fallen gladiator.
“Time!” and the giants shaped up.
The breathless crowd noted that Placke,
Hercules as he was, with his 6ft. s+in.
and his 16st. —magnificent proportions
and limbs which had carried him 18
miles in bitterly-cold waters against the
rage of a North Sea tempest —neverthe-
less looked small before the towering
6ft. lOin. and 16st. 71b. of Barker.
Never before in the history of pugilism
had such a pair met; never before had
one-fifth of a ton of live meat been
called upon to glut a well-moneyed crowd
with slow butchery.
The Queensland giant placed his
heaven-born policeman’s foot well for-
ward in defiance, and behind it waved
the ponderous fists through which Placke
had to break in order to strike face or
body.
Placke began the fighting, trying to
reach Barker’s face. Barker’s seconds
chuckled as they saw how totally un-
scientific was the simple-minded foe, and
laughed boisterously when their princi-
pal’s right struck Placke upon the jaw,
sending him down.
That blow would have settled almost
any other man, but Placke’s great heart
and unabused constitution gave him a
fresh lease of life.
The second round was likewise
Barker's. He smashed Placke on left
PLACKE.
eye, nose and mouth, causing the blood
to flow ; and the fight seemed all over.
Reporters put away their notebooks.
But, with the third round, Placke came
out fresh again. He forced the fighting,
hurling himself upon Barker, smashing
him over the right eye, and making the
blood spurt from mouth and nose.
There was consternation in the Barker
camp. The seconds’ jubilation changed
to dismay and excitement. It wasn't all
over; the beaten man’s pluck and
strength were undying.
Dooley clenched his hands at Placke’s
onslaught, and shouted, “Left, Dick!
Left! Left!” At last Dick shot the left
with a staggering blow which almost sent
Placke down and made the bright blood
stream down his face from a deep cut
under the eye.
Dooley and co. “kidded” Barker as
they rubbed him down. “But moind
what I tell you,” Dooley said; “keep
away.”
In the fourth round, Placke made
Barker “smell hell.” He punched him
hard upon the belly and made him
groggy. Barker’s seconds in the minute
interval “kidded” their man vigorously,
while Placke’s instructed him to rush
again and infight Barker during the fifth
round.
Had Placke obeyed his seconds he
might have won ; but he allowed Barker
to pull himself together in the fifth round.
That round and the sixth were mostly
feinting and glaring.
With the seventh round the fierceness
of the battle recommenced. Placke reeled
back upon the ropes, the blood gushing
from eye, nose and mouth and falling
upon his breast, down which it streamed
in many rivulets.
From that on the rounds were rounds
of blood. As the exhausted men sparred
for breath and the audience sat mute,
many of them paralysed with the horror
of the spectacle, Placke’s blood could be
heard drip, drip, drip, upon the stage,
and Barker would suddenly spring back
and spit from his throat the blood which
threatened to choke him.
The gloves were red and clotted; the
stage was slippery. “Resin!” cried one
of Barker’s seconds ; “resin —Dick can’t
stand.” In the minute interval one second
rubbed resin upon Barker’s boots, while
Abe Willis sucked the giant’s eye, which
was fast closing up.
After every round the seconds sponged
their men on face and body, fanned
them, “kidded” them, and sent them up
again.
But Placke was practically dying. His
left eye was closed, and the left side of
his face was a great blot of blood, which,
when the men clinched, left a big red
patch upon Barker’s chest. And in these
clinches the men’s bloody arms and
gloves, passing round each other’s bodies,
left their trunks almost covered with
smudges of gore.
The beaten Placke was knocked down
again and again. He rose every time to


LI STAR D
Marks an
Epoch in
Diesel Engine
Design ......
“Listard” is a special process of
cylinder hardening which in-
creases BY AT LEAST 300%,
compared with the hardest pre-
viously known metal, the resist-
ance to wear in Diesel Engine
Cylinders and, at the same time,
reduces the maintenance cost
and extends the all-round effi-
ciency of the engine. Just think
what this means! Lister Diesels
are already famous for their
long life and efficiency, and now
they offer you the nearest thing
to the never-wear-out engine
.Cylinder that science and
engineering genius have yet
produced!
And remember, Lister Diesels
are the only stationary engines
available with “Listard” Pro-
cess Cylinders.
a
iiimimij]
ĵ
0
LISTER DIESEL
ENGINES
Sole Agents
for N.S.W.:
Dangar, Cedye & Malloch Ltd
Malloch House, 10-14 Young Street, Sydney.
Telephone: B6o9s—(six lines).
If l
W
Telegrams: “Dangars,” Sydney.
present his hideously-battered face to the
onslaught of the foe.
No police interfered, but at last the
referee stopped the fight. Barker the
winner!
Placke was lifted off the ropes and
borne to his corner.
Then, in his dressing-room, surrounded
by his seconds, by Barker’s seconds and
the chief M.C., Placke, unconscious,
began a long and grim struggle with
death. This was the after-battle in which
the poor, unscienced Dutchman took an
unconscious part, but in which all the
experienced abettors fought desperately
against outraged nature.
They tried to put whisky down his
throat; they held him up and gave him
a teaspoonful. He swooned off.
Two of the party began to tremble.
“He’s gone,” said one.
“Never mind,” said Larry Foley;
“you’ll only get seven years like the rest
of us. Don’t stand trembling! Rub him
with whisky.” And the master-spirit
poured the whisky upon Placke’s body,
and the seconds rubbed and chafed it.
In the near presence of an awful
calamity Foley alone kept his nerve. As
Death came closer, he turned him aside
with a bold thrust. Seeing a sickly-
looking man stoop down and rub Placke’s
feet, he shouted with ironical emphasis:
“Don’t you rub his feet, you’ll give him
typhoid fever! .You go away and get
buried. Only a strong man should rub
him.”
The sickly-looking man left. And the
rubbing went on, while Larry explained
why he wasn’t a teetotaller. “An old
lady,” he said, “whom I loved was pro-
nounced dead by two doctors. We
rubbed her with whisky and she lived
seven years after.”
There was a rush when the doctor
came. He put his stethoscope to the
man’s heart, felt his pulse, opened the
one eye which it was possible to open,
and, stooping down holding a lighted
match over it, examined the pupil.
None of the seconds dared speak. The
doctor, it was plain, was most unfavor-
ably impressed; but Larry spoke up
without a quail in his heart, without a
quaver in his voice.
“You see, doctor, there’s the wrist-
hitter, the elbow-hitter and the shoulder-
hitter. Now the fellow this lad fought
is a wrist-hitter.”
“What gave him that eye?” asked the
doctor.
“Wrist-hitting,” said Larry. “Now,
what do you think of it, doctor?”
The doctor looked down at Placke,
whose face might have been struck by
a half-spent round-shot.
“There’s great shock to the system;
the man is very weak; his heart’s very
slow ; the bone of the left eyebrow is
fractured ; and there is concussion of the
brain.”
“Concussion?” Larry exclaimed with
loud incredulity.
“How old is he?” asked the doctor.
“Twenty-five,” said someone.
“It would be a great pity if anything
happened to such a splendid man,” the
doctor continued, with the admiration of
the professional anatomist, “but I can’t
say whether he’ll come round yet or not.
He might come round.”
Foley stepped aside. “The doctor
don’t kid me,” he said. “He’ll come
round, with his constitution, all right.
If he’d won the fight he would be all
right now, but his heart’s broken with
being beaten. Why, I remember when
Jackson fought Dooley! Why, Peter hit
Mick on the point with the force of the
lightning, and it lifted Dooley clean off
his feet, and knocked the bone out near
the eye in a lump as big as a goose-egg.
And didn’t we squirm for three hours
after! We were frightened, but Dooley
came round all right.”
Here the doctor spoke. “You have
seen a man pull through after being as
bad as this! ” “Lord, yes, doctor ; why
I had both my eyebrows fractured, and
look at me! A man’s as old as he feels,
and I’m 25. I’d take Placke’s chance for
a tenner. Don’t you remember how
Trickett went like this after his race with
Hanlan? Insensible for four hours, and
then springing up as lively as a buck
wallaby.”
“What gave him this terrible eye?”
asked the doctor as he applied the ice-
cap to Placke’s head.
“Well,” said Foley, “you see, he met
a policeman outside, and told him he
wasn’t handsome, and the policeman hit
him with the baton.”
The doctor wanted Placke to be taken
to the hospital, but was temporarily over-
ruled. About midnight he went away,
leaving word to call him should the
Dutchman seem worse.
Then there was silence, broken by one
of the seconds striking a match in order
to look into Placke’s eye.
Larry was up. “What are you striking
a match for? Keep your claw out of
his eye; bad luck’s sure to come if you
have your claw in it. Your hair won’t
want cropping for your seven years.
You’re bald now.” The second blew
out the match.
“Weak ?” ironically exclaimed Foley.
“Weak? The doctor says—he—is—
WEAK! He’s strong enough to pull the
BARKER.
, usks out of an dephant , And game!
He , d fl ht a circular . saw driye n by the
blunder!”
“Yes,” said one of the seconds, “they
... „ « , . u ,
can t say this Hollander isn t game ; he s
fighting now.” And, lifting up the
blanket he showed Placke > s hands
ti ghtly clenched and moving automati-
cally as if in battle .
.. xhat , s a d symptom .. remark ed
one sccond
.. Qf CQUrs , j., said L « jt>s the
mind control|in . the bod Xake that
look ofl ur fac sajd L to one
second .. Yotfll turn the man into a
seven years’ corpse.”
The doctor had hjs way and placke
was borne j nto hospital, feet first. And
all hands had a bad night.
Next morning Foley’s heart warmed
to jhe p oor devil. “He’s the finest man
j e yer saWj ” the Old Master said, “and
if rd ha d him from the first I’d have
made him champion of the world. No
g ame r lad ever stepped into a ring. He’s
never had a lesson, and look how straight
jjg drove thcit left! 59
placke was a cot case for months, and
ne ither he nor Barker ever fought again.
Rewards? Barker’s cut amounted to
£2 jqs. There was nothing for Placke
und i he appeared, smiling but very shaky,
a t his “benefit,” which yielded £l4.
J. I. Craig, who is versed in the anti-
quity of the land of the Pharaohs, is
about to go on his travels again after a
visit to Australia. Craig is a man of
many parts. Born in a Scottish fishing
village, he developed into a man of
learning, rising to the distinction of
training the boys with the little short
jackets at Eton. In his own boyhood
he had done manual labor in the fields
and shared toil with the fisherfolk
at Fife. Craig was sent to Silesia to
control food supplies after the Great
War. He has a whole string of letters
after his name, and since he has been in
Australia another honor has fallen Upon
him. The Egyptian Government has
decorated him with the Order of the Nile.


and to pass laws. Napper and Mutton became more
and more self-important, more and more pompous
about the dignity of Terrigan, and they were a cause
of continual and increasing worry to Jerry. Hiram,
since his last conciliation, had played a rather passive
part and had kept out of the way of his betes noires
as much as possible.
No further news was forthcoming from Sydney
or Canberra.
The weeks slipped by ; then on the night before
Coronation - cum - Independence Day everything
seemed in train for a first-rate celebration. The usual
group was gathered in the lounge of the Royal, dis-
cussing the arrangements for the morrow, when Bert
Milligan came in.
“Tom wants you on the ’phone, Mr. Buckenara,”
he said. “You can speak to him from here.”
Mr. Buckenara crossed the room and picked up
the receiver. “That you, Tom?” they heard him say.
Then, “What! Don’t be silly. You’re imagining
things... Where?... No. Can't be... Just a
minute”.. .
“What’s to-day?” he called out to those at the
table. . -
“Eleventh,” replied Napper promptly.
“Yes, but what day ?”
“Tuesday.”
“Thought so!”
He addressed himself to Tom again. “Look here,
you’re seeing things. It’s Tuesday, I tell you. There’s
no train to-day.”
He hung up the receiver and walked back to the
others.
“Tom must be going mad. Tried to tell me”
He broke off suddenly as a rumbling noise and
a shrieking whistle sounded outside. “What was
that?”
“Sounded like a train.”
The noise grew louder. Buckenara went white.
“Hell, it is !” He rushed out of the room.
The others looked at each other blankly.
“What’s a train doing down here on Tuesday
evening?” asked Mutton.
“Probably a special,” replied Napper. “They
know we’re celebrating the Coronation in a big way,
so they’ve put a special train on to cope with the
crowd. Funny Buckenara not being informed about
it.”
“Shall we go and find out?”
“What’s the use? Buckenara will come back
soon enough and tell us.”
It was nearly an hour before the stationmaster
returned. He burst in excitedly with a letter in his
hand and joy on his usually gloomy face.
“It’s all over,” he announced.
“What is?” came from all sides.
“The rebellion.”
In their bewildered faces he brandished the letter.
“It’s from the Railways Commissioner.”
“The New South Wales Railways Commissioner,
you mean,” corrected Napper. “You are the Railways
Commissioner so far as Terrigan is concerned.”
Chief Man Peperell was reading the letter aloud.
Owing to increased traffic it has become
necessary to augment the service on the Terrigan
line. On Tuesday next and on every Tuesday
thereafter a train-will arrive at Terrigan at
7.30 p.m.
“It’s dated yesterday,” he said. “By next Tuesday
they must have meant to-day.”
“Yes,” agreed Mr. Buckenara, adding, rather un-
necessarily, “it’s in ; that’s what Tom rang me up
about. The notice came by the train.”
Mr. Mutton suddenly showed signs of life. “Are
there any mails on the train?” he asked.
“Rather! Three big bags.”
Mr. Mutton left hastily, without stopping to
attempt any explanations.
The stationmaster replaced the letter in its enve-
lope. “So that’s the end of it. We’ve got our train
back.” *
“Yes,” agreed Peperell. “We've won. It just
shows what a little determination will do.”
“What?” said Napper. “Are you going to call it
all off?”
“Well, we’ve got what we were after, so what’s
the justification in keeping on?” The Chief Man was
rejoicing inwardly at the turn things had taken.
t “It’s going to be pretty difficult,” warned Jerry.
“Why?”
“What about to-morrow?”
“Well, we can go on with the Coronation cele-
brations and leave the Independence talk out. Better,
still, substitute Victory talk for it. We’ve won! We’ve
got our train back.”
“For how long? How do we know this isn’t just
a sop? There’s no guarantee the train will remain.”
Peperell was quite sure of his ground. “Anyway,
we can’t secede now. Yesterday we had an excuse.
Now we have none.”
“But we have already seceded.”
“What? Not officially!”
“The messengers left this morning for Canberra
and Sydney with copies of the Declaration. They’ll
be delivered first thing in the morning.”
“We must stop them.”
“Can’t do it. How can we get in touch with
them? I don’t even know where they’ll be staying
to-night.”
“We must do something,” said Mr. Peperell
desperately. “Somebody could motor across to Can-
berra and someone else dash up to Sydney. They
won’t be presenting the dispatches until ten o’clock
in the morning. There’d be plenty of time to inter-
cept them.”
Mr. Napper entered a protest. “Do you mean to
say all our work’s to go for nothing? We’ve got
everyone in Terrigan behind us, and all the papers
in Australia on our side, and you suggest we drop
the whole thing!”
“Well” began Mr. Peperell
“Look here,” broke in Hiram Pettigrew. “What’s
the big idea? Some of us has got a lotta dough
invested in this phony revolution an’ I reckon we
oughta have something to say before y’ call it off.”
“Hear! Hear!” This from Napper, who for
once found himself in agreement with the American.
“Money isn’t everything,” said Mr. Peperell. “You
have certainly assisted us financially and have risked
your money, but most of us have risked far more.”
“Far more!” spluttered Pettigrew. “What the
heck do y’ mean? Far more what?”
“We have, risked our good names —our reputa-
tions, built up over a lifetime.”
“Huh! An’ what about my good name and
reputation as a businessman? That don’t count, eh?
... .Mrs. Mutton gushed.
What about my dough that took me a lifetime to build
up? What about that?”
The American was in his most aggressive mood,
and the Chief Man quailed a little before his attack.
Then he resumed. “It was reputations of a different
sort I had in mind. And as to risks, the most they
can do to you is deport you, but it’s a different matter
with us. We’re liable to”-
Napper broke in indignantly. “You’re not getting
frightened of the consequences at this stage, surely?
When you pledged yourself at the beginning was the
time to think of that.”
Peperell changed his ground a little. “No, it’s
not that. It’s our reputations I’m really concerned
about. I have strong feelings on the subject”
It was Jerry who interrupted him this time. “What
about Sir Hamish’s feelings?” he demanded. “We
brought him out here to be Governor. What’s to
happen to him if we climb down now? Are we to
send him back to Scotland like a crate of empty
returns? We can’t insult him like that.”
“I’ve no wish to insult Sir Hamish, but”— —
“Well, you’re suggesting it.”
Mr. Peperell continued to advocate calling the
revolution off, but it was obvious that he was playing
a losing game. Only Buckenara supported him;
now that the Tuesday train was running again the
stationmaster was quite willing to let bygones be by-
gones ; but he wasn’t prepared to put up a very strong
fight against those who wished to continue the seces-
sion movement.
Everyone else seemed to agree that they had gone
too far to turn back, and at last Peperell was forced to
accept the wishes of the majority. Napper had hinted
at a reconstruction of the Ministry, and Peperell pre-
ferred to be in the movement, even though he thought
it wrong, rather than out in the cold with only the
knowledge of his own rectitude to console him. It was
decided to leave it to Canberra or Sydney to take the
next step.
(To be continued next week.)
FISHING TRIP
THIS' happened in the Bush.
It began with a carload of out-and-out local
fishing fanatics taking a holidaying Bulletin
man aboard. Introductions in the dark, after
which the “B.” subsided into his seat alongside the
driver and took no further part in the proceedings,
which, with a five-mile run ahead, went on in this vein,
mostly, of course, about fishing:
“An’ on Tuesday night they got away with twenty
of Joe’s fowls.”
“Twenty?”
“An’ he’s down in the dairy at four o’clock having
a morning cup of tea, and there’s one of them there
full as a goog.”
“Four o’clock?”
“He oughter cut their throats.”
“Did y’ see his missus when you were out there?’'
“Damn’ fine little.. woman.”
“Yes, a good wife for him.”
“A good wife for anyone.”
“Yes, considering the class she comes from.”
“She never belonged to it.”
“No?”
“I’ve seen her on and off, and heard about her.
She never belonged to that lot.”
“How is she?”
“Aw, you know —expectin’.”
“She’s a bit nervy, ain’t she?”
“Y’oughter heard Mason going lousy when they
brought her in a fortnight ago. He had to lose his
place in the golf tournament. Told Joe to bring her
back in a month’s time.”
“She’s a nervy little woman.”
“She makes a good wife for him.”
“Mason went crook, eh?”
“Huh!”' -
“Did y’ see any scrub-turkeys up there?”
“Hullo, there’s a damn’ cat.”
“Must’ve gone wild.”
“When I goes up to the house a black hen had
just laid an egg on the doorstep.”
“Hey, there’s another blasted cat!”
“Hey, cat, we passed your missus half a mile
back.”
“Did y’ see any scrub-turkeys?”
“Saw a few quail. Joe’s place’s looking pretty
good.”
“Pretty good place.”
“Who d’you reckon I saw yesterday —the gipsies.”
“The fortune-telling mob?”
“One of them told Joe’s fortune last time, didn’t
she?”
“How did it work out?”
“Crook.”
“Always do.”
“Mrs. Keyes got a lottery ticket. She told her
that if she got it back before the Tuesday she’d have
luck, an’ it won a fiver.”
“What did she tell Joe?”
“Told him he wouldn’t get married.”
“But he did.”
“Damn’ fine little woman.”
“Good wife for him.”
“She’d be a good wife for anyone.”
“How’s he makin’ out with them pigs?”
“Y’know that old Berkshire sow?”
“Huh!”
“Fifteen last Wednesday.”
“What, old?” ; f :
“No, pigs.”
“Fox!” ' . •
: * “Where?”. •' - '. i? • .
■ “There, near the bloodwood.”
“What d'you make of last . Friday .night?”
“Cliff told me they were all shot.”
“The lot of them?” .
“Huh.” ‘
“They would be.”
“Annie laid him out with an axe-handle.”
“Serve the cow right.”
“Joe was pretty game takin’ one of them on. ’
“No, I tell you, she never belonged to that
class.”
“She’s a cut above them.”
“Always was. when she was a nipper.”
“Mason went crook, eh?”
“He would.”
“Spoilt his golf.”
“When was that?”
“About three weeks ago.”
“What say we cut across and have a look at
them?”
“I’m on.”
“Me, too.”
“Rotten road.”
“Better going in by the creek.”
“Where d’you turn off for that?”
“You know them lemon-trees by the foot oi the
knob?”
“They’re oranges, aren’t they?”
“Just before you get to them.”
After the turn the careful driving needed on the
track turned on complete silence.
What happened after Joe’s place —mostly hessian
—was reached would better illuminate a medical
journal. The chap who had held out that she was
a “damn’ fine little woman” helped Joe. A gir -
Emphatically a damn’ fine little girl.
There’s one thing about fishing up that way
apparently you never know what you’re going to
catch.


Pyorrhea! What, ME?
m
M
*
77/
• • • Who IS SO WELL QUALIFIED?
to perfect a real dentifrice as the dental
surgeon himself? Particularly a lifetime
specialist in pyorrhea like Dr. R. J. Forhan,
the originator of Forhan’s*
VV : :
ht
m
m
O
-- "i«?
-
if s
£ i!
Si
k-irttv.Ss;*
ih •*
5 ; -
;
-
teU;U»
V
Price 2/-; extra-large tube 3/-
-but I always thought
pyorrhea was something
you could see!
NJO, Mr. Average Citizen, you are wrong about
1 that! Pyorrhea works below the surface, and
sometimes gives no warning for years. A tooth may
be clean and white and well-cared-for, and yet it may
be the first to surrender to the insidious sapping of
Pyorrhea.
In fact, only a dentist can recognise and treat
Pyorrhea in these early stages. It is one of the most
important services a Dentist can perform—a real
service of prevention. More than half the losses of
adult teeth are due to the prevalence of this treacherous
disease of the gums.
It is a serious matter —this care of teeth and gums
—and should be seriously regarded. One specialist,
R. J. Forhan, D.D.S., devoted 26 years to Pyorrhea
research. He developed Forhan’s Pyorrhea
Astringent which is successfully used by Dentists
throughout the world in the treatment of Pyorrhea.
Yes, the care of the teeth and gums is a serious business. Don’t
look upon a toothpaste as a simple cleanser—a sweet-flavored soap.
Don t look upon it as a mere cosmetic. When you get a toothpaste
for yourself and your family, get the best —get Forhans —it is more
than a toothpaste, it contains Forhan’s Pyorrhea Astringent and if
used in time and used consistently will prevent Pyorrhea, or check
its progress.
Beware of artificial teeth—keep your own instead. Don’t wait
for bleeding gums and such warnings—they may come too late. Get
a tube of Forhan’s for the Gums to-day.
Australasian Agents: The Sheldon Drug Co. Pty., Ltd,., Sydney.
Forhan’s
for the gums
MORE THAN A TOOTHPASTE
IT PREVENTS PYORRHEA
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK'S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
1
Ji
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
(.Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
4
\
*r.4%r o°
jp s&)
««
-i\>» \ x »
€'a*
* &c
,0&
<*•'
s*v
' * -<e
»5^
0
#>
>
,9\
9\
#'
,v
o<
$
1$
' A
.
o'* AO i^sr (^‘
’ • O v


%r Australian farmers
ALL-AUSTRALIAN PRODUCTS
y
Iml
»V>/v
I
3-r*.
•brand.
“WAR AT AH”
FENCING PRODUCTS
For Complete Satisfaction
Fencing problems are easily solved when you buy from Rylands’ Waratah
range of fencing products. One hundred per cent. Australian—from the ore
to the fence—they meet the successful farmer’s every need. For the buyer’s
protection every coil of wire and roll of netting bears Rylands’ identification disc.
WIRE NETTING
FENCING WIRE
STAR STEEL FENCE POSTS
HINGED JOINT FENCE
“Waratah” Wire Netting is carefully woven from high-grade wire and hot
galvanised after weaving with pure electrolytic zinc. Supplied in a wide range
of gauges, meshes and widths. Rylands’ “Waratah” Fencing Wire in black or
galvanised finishes is made from selected high-grade B.H.P. Steel. “Waratah”
Star Steel Fence Posts are more economical than wooden posts. A man and
a boy can erect 200 posts in a day. They are fire and ant proof and are
available in a variety of sizes and spacings. “Waratah” Hinged Joint Fence is
particularly suitable for fencing sheep, cattle and pig enclosures. The special
woven construction withstands many conditions which would wreck other fences.
SOLD BY~ALL LEADING DISTRIBUTORS AND STOREKEEPERS.^^
Made at Newcastle, N.S.W., from B.H.P. STEEL by
RYLANDS BROTHERS (AUST.) PTY., LTD.
Works, Newcastle, N.S.W. Head Office, 422 Little Collins St., Melbourne, Vic.
Write for Our Farmer’s
Hand Book—lt’s Free.
RYLANDS
STAND
BEHIND
THEIR
PRODUCTS
