

m
m
WM
m
i y
'
♦
r
ssii
X
: V •• /■■ v
b
m
■■
: v •
*1
m
• :
'
■ H-W
.
Perfect co-ordination of brain and eye and muscle control
are essentials which make the perfect marksman. To
attain this strenuous training and concentration are neces-
sary. The result is a custodian in whom can be placed
implicit reliance. His training and experience have fitted
him to meet every emergency.
Investors should avoid haphazard choice of avenues in
which to employ capital and seek the advice of trained
investment advisers who are in a positon to afford skilled
guidance.
Many factors must be considered before a decision con-
cerning the advisability of an investment can be given
and only experts are able to arrive at a conclusion with
any degree of accuracy.
The training of such experts is quite as exacting as that
of a perfect marksman.
Hamiltons (Australasia) Ltd. offer the services of a staff
of investment advisers and recommend only shares in
established companies which are proved dividend-paying
propositions.
Ask for particulars—
ĺ
VICTORIA:
Metropolitan Building,
89-91 Queen Street,
Melbourne.
G.P.O. Box 520 J.
QUEENSLAND:
Commonwealth Bank Building,
Queen Street,
Brisbane.
G.P.O. Box 1017 N.
Bank 'of N.S.W. Chambers,
Flinders Street,
Townsville.
G.P.O. Box 280.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA j
C.M.L. Building,
King William Street,
Adelaide.
G.P.O. Box GOOF.
NEW ZEALAND:
Kat. Bank of N.Z. Chambers,
Featherstone Street,
Wellington, N.Z.
G.P.O. Box 002, Wellington.
Hamilton* (Australasia) limited
Investment Brokers and Financial Advisers. Authorised Capital, £250,000.
Head Office: KEMBLA BUILDING, MARGARET STREET, SYDNEY.
’Phones: 8W1146 and 1147 (G.P.O. Box 375255.)
Branch Offices:
Commercial Bank Chambers, Beardy Street, Armidale, N.S.W.
Colonial Mutual Life Building, Hunter Street, Newcastle.
'Phone, Armidale 150. ' Box No. 123, Armidale.
’Phone, Newcastle 1942.
The Bulletin
Anzac and Peace
Vol. 58.— N0. 2984.
Wednesday, April 21, 1937.
Price 6d.
Begistered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


DYMOCK’S LIBRARY CATALOGUE
with terms and particulars, will be sent
post free to any address on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
“The Block,”
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
IJm f
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT'S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAID
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write jor Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
A/d Name
My Address
S.B. 137 - •
S. H. Prior Memorial Prize
Third Competition, Closing June 6, 1937.
Full particulars of this annual literary award will Published
here from time to time, or may be had on application to The
Bulletin, 252 George-street, Sydney. ... , the
For this current competition only novels are eligible, and tne
Prize will be awarded to that which is considered the most
outstanding contribution to Australian literature.
. The trustees will publish the successful work.in-book form
and in serial form any they may deem worthy. If PnJ^ s “ e£ L a * h *
serial the winner will be paid for at serial rates m addition
prize-money! Any other S P used as serials will also be paid for at
Sem Any te %ona fide Australian resident or any person born in
Austfaha, New Zealand or British South Pacific islands will be
piiaihle to enter for the competition works which must b
orighial work of the entrants, and previously unpublished either
whnllv or in nart, in book or serial form. Manuscripts must
submitted under a nom de plume, and the true name and address
of the author must accompany each entry in a; seatied -JJ
which will not be opened until the judges have made their decision
The trustees reserve the right to withhold the Prize n ° *
submitted is, in the opinion of the judges, worthy of a a
If this should occur in any year, the amount of the Prize wn
added to the following year’s Prize.
The Red Page
LAST WORDS ON BLIGH.
By the publication of the Log of the Bounty and
Turbulent Journey Owen Rutter will have completed a
notable series of books on Bligh and written what
must surely be the last words on the career and
character of that man of controversy.
The Court-Martial of the Bounty Mutineers,
printed from the original minutes in the Public Record
Office, London, was published in 1931 in the Notable
British Trials series. The two volumes, The Voyage
of the Bounty’s Launch, including the journal of
Fryer, the master, and the journal of Morrison, the
boatswain’s mate (the original journals of Morrison
and Fryer being in the Mitchell Library, Sydney),
were published by the Golden Cockerel Press in 1934
and 1935 respectively. A small popular work, The
True Story of the Mutiny in the Bounty, was published
last year by Newnes, and was quickly followed by the
first volume of the Log, beautifully produced by the
Golden Cockerel Press, and by Turbulent Journey,
issued by Ivor Nicholson and Watson.
The last three works are the direct result of the
controversy that raged round the film “Mptiny on
the Bounty.” Based on the first and second volumes
of the Nordhoff-Hall trilogy and freely adapted for
the screen, the film, while magnificent as a spectacle,
was a travesty of history. Immediately there was a
spate of articles and letters in the press in England
and the United States, and, while in England original
records were produced and quoted in defence of
Bligh, in America a publishing firm eager to cash-in
on the sensation issued a volume, The Saga of the
Bounty, allegedly containing a collection of authentic
documents but sadly marred by the inclusion of the
spurious “Letters from Fletcher Christian.”
The two folio volumes of the Log of the Bounty
are from the archives of the Admiralty, and Rutter
proposes to issue a third volume containing the account
of the voyage home to England from Coupang in
Timor. This section of the log is missing from the copy
in the Admiralty Library, which is in the hand of
Samuel, the clerk, but is included in the one mainly
in Bligh’s own hand, which is in the Mitchell Library
and to which, in his book, Rutter refers as Bligh’s
original draft. The Log is a beautiful piece of book-
making, with four wood engravings by Lynton Lamb
and a striking cover design described as a sail binding.
It is provided with an adequate preface and notes.
But it is in Turbulent Journey that Rutter makes
his main critical contribution to the Bligh literature.
Dr. George Mackaness, in his Life of Bligh, had
examined most of the available extant material,
including Bligh’s private correspondence during and
immediately subsequent to the famous voyage, and his
book is evidence of the extent and thoroughness of
his research. In his acknowledgments Rutter states
that every student of Bligh’s life must be grateful to
Mackaness for the signposts he has erected for those
who follow him. He has himself had access to some
new source material, such as Bligh’s “Log of the
Belle Poule” and a few letters in the possession of
members of the Bligh family in England. Of these,
the most important is that which closes the book
and gives it its title. Written shortly after Bligh’s
death by Captain George Tobin, who was third
lieutenant on the Providence on the second breadfruit
voyage, to Francis Bond, who also served on the
Providence, it remarks that Bligh “has had a busy and
turbulent journey of it.” Rutter’s book had previously
been announced as Breadfruit Bligh, but when he saw
this letter he felt that in these words he had found
the better title. Tobin’s summing-up of Bligh’s
character is extremely interesting:
I am sure that in the Providence there was no
settled system of Tyranny exercised by him likely to
produce dissatisfaction. It was in those violent
Tornados of temper when he lost himself. Yet when all,
in his opinion, went right when could a man be more
placid and interesting?.... Once or twice, indeed, I felt .
the Unbridled license of his power of Speech yet never
without soon receiving something like an emollient
plaister to heal the wound.
Like Mackaness, Rutter’s judgment is distinctly
favorable to Bligh, but he goes further in this direc-
tion. Mackaness, after carefully building up his
portrait of a brave and fearless man, tends to break
it down when he comes to the arrest at Government
House, Sydney, by deciding that Bligh’s nerve had
for once failed him—that he was “hiding ingloriously
under or behind a bed. Rutter’s view is that it is
impossible to be sure whether he was hiding because
he was afraid for his own skin or because there was
a chance of getting away, securing support and
reasserting his authority. He deduces, however, from
Bligh’s previous actions and his character that the
latter is the correct explanation. He might have gone
even further. It is reasonable to accept as certain that
Bligh had no other motive than the desire to do his
duty, which would be to use every endeavor to regain
the government.
Rutter, making acknowledgment of the assistance
he received from the Mitchell Library in the shape
of advice and photostat copies of a number of letters
and documents from “its precious collection of manu-
scripts relating to Bligh’s life,” reproduces, also, the
miniature of Bligh, painted when he was about 60
years of age, which is in the possession of the
Mitchell Trustees. This miniature appeared also in
Mackaness’s Life with another in private possession
which has been proved to be not of Bligh. In an
article on “The Portraiture of Bligh” in the “Mariner’s
Mirror” of April, 1936, Professor Geoffrey Callender,
of the National Maritime Museum, Greenwich, de-
clared that neither of these portraits was genuine.
On inquiry it was found, however, that he had not
investigated their history and had decided against the
Mitchell Library one mainly on the ground that the
uniform was not correct. This portrait was in the
possession of one of Bligh’s daughters and passed
from her to various other members of the family,
and, in addition to the history of its ownership, it
undoubtedly appears to be an authentic likeness. With
all the available evidence before him, Rutter had no
hesitation in including it in his book.
J.L.
A Good First Novel.
The Tomato Field, by Stuart Engstrand (Martin
Seeker and Warburg; 7s. 6d.), a tale of small farming
in Indiana, gives the reader tho feeling that the earth
itself has spoken. It is no ruralMdyll, and yet, for all
its realism, it escapes the dragging heaviness of the
usual “sons of toil —tons of soil” story of struggle
with the earth. It’s an exciting book. Engstrand
has the trick of making things seem real and of
making them matter.
It is important that Fred Miller, gathering a
load of radishes for market, should get enough money
for them to enable him to marry Miriam, the pretty
little girl he sees in town on market mornings; and
when, there being a glut of vegetables, he has to
sell out for a couple of dollars, it seems almost as
calamitous to the reader as it must have done to
Fred. Fifteen dollars would have paid for the license
and bought a cheap wedding ring. Fred’s mother,
who works with him in the fields, weeding and hoeing,
sets things right, though she goes against the grain
of her feelings and her good sense to do it.
Fred’s mother is a fine study. She can spend
the day weeding, but long years with her face close
to the earth have robbed her of the power of rising
when she wishes. Fred has to help her to her feet
and hold her for a while until her limbs will support
her upright. She is drowned, later, in the fields during
a cloudburst, Fred not being there to help her up.
He was away chasing after Miriam, who had soon
wearied of farm life and had gone to work in the
local vegetable cannery. Miriam had no sense of
pleasure and achievement when another ribbon of
earth lay free from weeds ; she saw the vegetable
rows not individually but as a continuous line
“shuttling back and forth for ever.” Fred’s torment
between the pull of Miriam and his need of applying
himself continually to the care of the vegetable farm
is the main theme of the book.
Among the characters is Joe, a friend of Fred’s,
a deformed youth “who carried a hump on his back
like a small bundle of grief.” Another is Hart,
Miriam’s lover, who engineers a suppliers’ and em-
ployees’ strike at the cannery. Miriam offhandedly
goads Joe about his deformity, and later, when she
herself is disfigured, with an hysteria that virtually
leads to his death. She was among the strike-
breakers, and a rock thrown through a window
results in her receiving a cut from mouth to ear. The
writer obviously , knows a great deal about the sins of
U.S. non-co-operative canneries ; the shading of prices,
the unfair grading of produce and the gradual work-
ing of producers into a condition of mortgage-slavery.
He makes these matters an integral part of his story.
He writes, too, from within his story; there Is never
the feeling that he is more sophisticated than his
characters ; he is one of the passionate but scarcely
articulate group of cultivators who meet to discuss
their wrongs, and when he is with Fred, kneeling his
slow way along the vegetable rows, Fred’s horizon
is his. There is a coarseness in the story, but it is
unprovocative and has the sense of belonging.
Engstrand slays no dragons. When the story
ends the cannery chimney still dominates the scene,
but Miriam has gone with Hart and another woman is
weeding row for row with Fred.
The End of the World.
Karel Capek can write, in An Ordinary Life, the
story of a clerk in the railways to whom nothing
happens, and make of it a penetrating and sympathetic
document; and he can write, in The Absolute at
Large, of a disintegrated atom and make of it a
brilliant story. His range is at once deep and wide,
his imagination sympathetic and inventive. His new
book, War with the Newts (George Allen and Unwin ;
7s. 6d.), is a story full of vivacity, with the world
for its setting and mankind for its actors. It is a
satire its sharpness backed by wisdom.
Van Toch, a Czech sea-captain, discovered near
Sumatra a hitherto unknown species of newt, hideously
ugly, about the size of a ten-year-old child, and capable
of walking erect. They lived in a remote bay, feared
as devils by the natives, warred upon by ? sharks;
the last survivors, perhaps, of one of Nature s earlier
efforts toward the evolution of man. The newts were
adaptable and imitative, and Captain Van Toch took
them under his protection. He supplied them with
knives to fight the sharks, and in return tl*ey brought
him pearls. He took his fairy tale home, and a
company was formed to exploit the pearl fields with
newt labor. Newts were transported to all the
likely tropic isles and increased enormously under
protection. They worked for their keep alone. The
pearl market became saturated and the bottom fell
out of it. . . ,
Now the project passed from its romantic begin-
ning into realism. The newts were imported into
Europe, at first as scientific and popular curiosities,
but presently a use was found for them in industry.
With this cheap and inexhaustible labor it looked as
if a brilliant era of achievement was beginning ; but
soon hostility against them appeared. They upset
the labor market, they competed with men in unex-
pected spheres,.they were another weapon in the hands
of mutually suspicious nations. The Australian
reaction, exhibited in a fictitious newspaper cutting,
gives as good a taste of the writer’s satiric vein as
you could wish: —
Strike Movement in Australia.
The leader of the Australian Trade Unions, Harry
MacNamara, has called for a general strike of all those
employed in harbors, transport, electricity works, etc.
This means that the sectional organisations demand
that the import of working newts into Australia be
strictly regulated under the immigration laws. On the
other hand, Australian farmers are agitating for the
free importation of newts, because, owing to their
requirements of feeding stuffs, the sale of maize and fats,
especially sheep suet, has increased considerably. The
Salamander Syndicate offers to hand over to the Trade
Unions a contribution of 6s. for every newt imported.
The Government is ready to guarantee that the newts
would only be employed in the water and that (on
moral grounds) they would not emerge from the water
more than 16 inches, that is, up to the chest The
Trade Unions, however, insist on five inches and demand
for every newt an allowance of 5s. as well as its
capitation fee. It seems likely that an agreement will
be reached with the assistance of the Treasury.
Throughout the world anger developed into fear.
Inflamed human opinion led to war on the newts, and
they, being imitative, chose a dictator and returned
the war. Then they found they needed more room,
more sea to live in, so they began whittling away
the continents until the Black Sea reached the Baltic
and the land was shredded like spaghetti. Death
that humanity was fearing from the air was coming
from underground and from the sea. The newts
were irresistible. They were bringing the world to
an end. „ . . . ,
The satire of War with the Newts is subtle and
of most diverse application.
The Unsettled Years.
The Flowering Aloe, by Sylvia Stevenson (Cape;
Angus and Robertson; 7s. 6d.), carries the Book
Society’s recommendation. Notwithstanding serious
faults, it is the work of one with a sure feeling for
human relationships, a capacity for presenting
dramatic action, and a comment to make on the times.
The story deals chiefly with Selina Chantry, a
woman of gentle upbringing and sheltered life, and her
three children. These have all flown the rural nest.
Justin, who started out to be an etcher, is in London
earning a living writing scenarios for comic advertising
films. Caroline, who has a reasoned contempt for men
as a whole, combined with lack of ability to attiact
any of the'few who might meet with her approval,
is also in London, studying to be an almoner. Rex,
the least complex in character of the three, runs a
garage in connection with a well-patronised road-
house. He has bright hopes of establishing a chain
of garages, but is under constant need of “borrow-
ing” money from his mother.
Selina is disturbed about her children. Caroline
obviously has a grievance against life concealed
under her taciturnity and her close application to
her studies. Justin’s dissatisfaction is half-revealed
by his mask of humorous cynicism. Rex, meta-
phorically speaking, is driving recklessly in his haste
to reach his material destination. It is part of the
agnosticism of the age, the abandonment of religious
faith Through her children’s conversations and their
letters Selina’s own previously unquestioned belief m
(Continued on page 8.)


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”—Business Integrity. - “THE SENIOR STORE.”
ANTHONY HORDERNS'
“Keep the Top Clear for Action”
EIB. —De Luxe Desk, with matched figured Walnut veneer top and
end panels and drawer front. There are two cupboards, with matched
doors, behind the desk. Feet are encased in cast brass shoes, chromium-
plated. Automatic locking device on all drawers. Rounded corners.
Chromium-plated handles are bolted through each of the eight
large drawers. Two slides. Size sft. by 3ft
At Anthony Horderns’ £l6/5/*
E2A.—Single Pedestal Desk, with matched figured Walnut
veneer top and drawer front. Rounded corners. Four
large drawers, with automatic locking device. One slide.
Size, 42in. by 30in. At Anthony Horderns’, £6/19/6
Without Slide, £6/12/6.
m
r
EF.—Table, with top measuring 36in. by 20in.
Matched figured Walnut veneer top. Single
centre drawer, with lock and chromium-plated
handle. At Anthony Horderns’ . . £4/7/6
j • l
E 3 measuring sft. by 3ft., with matched figured Walnut
veneer top and drawer fronts. The six drawers have chromium-
plated handles. The two top drawers only have locks.
At Anthony Horderns’ £7/19/6
§4- Table, with top measuring 4ft. 6in. by 2ft. 6in. Four
drawers, with locks on the top two only. Top and drawer
fronts in matched figured Walnut veneer. Chromium-plated
handles. At Anthony Horderns’ £6/17/6
With two locked drawers only, £5/12/6.
If you should spend 30 minutes each day for a year looking for misplaced papers you would waste
nearly 20 eight-hour days. The modern desk helps to eliminate waste of time and loss of motion,
because it is designed and built to meet the speed of modern business. “A rightful place for every-
thing that has a right to be in the desk,” is the rule. The desk is the business work-bench, and every
inch of space should be given to just those things that are needed in the day’s work. In other words,
give your desk system a chance by assisting it with a modern desk. Here are desks designed for various
kinds of work, and each is scientifically planned to meet the purpose for which it is intended . . . the
quick despatch of incoming work, the handling of routine matters, the care of unfinished work and the
safety of matters pending ... in short, to facilitate the day’s work in the most efficient manner.
r r
rr
rr
r r
rr
rr
r
rr
rr
r r
r
rr
r r
r r
rr
r r
rr
rr
rr n
r r
r r
r r
fie '■ S
2l )
+SS
W MM
f v.
•W/
K">. J**
i /
. r;
, W
.-2C;
:f h
/:
- :
m
V
m
Sf-’-JS
s r£
m.
ws
-A?
X
El A. —Peaestal Desk, with matched figured Walnut
veneer top and drawer fronts. Eight large drawers and
two slides. Automatic locking device on all drawers.
Rounded veneer corners. Chromium-plated handles arc
bolted through each drawer. Size sft by 3ft.
At Anthony Horderns* £lO/17/6
Without Slides, £lO/10/-.
Office Furniture of To-Day and To-Morrow
This ever-changing world is readier to change than ever before. Personality and power, style and speed
. . . these are the things of to-day and to-morrow. Old-time office furniture, with its sombreness, is of
the past, as is yesterday. Here is office furniture essentially of to-day and anticipating the tendencies of
to-morrow. High-class Walnut Veneers on the desk tops and on drawer fronts, with the matched graining
found in costly furniture, give personality and style, engendering an atmosphere conducive to the right
mental conditions. And this personality office furniture is priced below “the furniture of yesterday.”
And plus all their smart style and gleaming appearance, these desks have spacious tops for unhampered
work, correct height for efficient sitting posture, plenty of room for leg freedom, correctly sized and deep
drawers for various desk requirements, and automatic locks for security. In this new and better-
value office furniture there are desks for every office need, and fot the home study. They are a high-class
product of craftsmanship and factory organisation of a new order. Business leaders are invited to test
these desks, and other office furniture, in the light of their own experience. The strong, seasoned timbers,
the secure workmanship, and the exquisite finish add adequately to the sum total of the highest value office
furniture that it has ever been our pleasure to bring to the attention of business men.
0 Furniture —Third Floor. Free Delivery City and Suburbs only.


This Yarn Won "The Bulletin” Prize for a Brief Short Story
Emu-Tntitjuma
by S.V porter
AN arid waste that even lizard and snake had
deserted ; dark scrub, saltbush, bare patches
, of dirty sand ; a sheet of shimmering heat that
caused distant boulders to swim before Ngali’s
eyes ; the blue sky flaunting its nakedness of cloud.
Ngali squinted her brows lower over her eyes. Some-
where, in all this distance, there must be lizards,
snakes, food.
It was two months since they had started on their
walkabout; two months since Worrigi had taken
her for his mate. And they had been happy. They
had discovered anew world. Not the world in which
they walked, but a world that none of their tribe
had known.
Other lubras never felt towards their men as
Ngali felt towards Worrigi. She had an individuality
which came from her father, who was not of this
world. He had descended from the star-world one
night and visited the tribe, taking Ngali’s mother far
into the wilderness, where she was later found wander-
ing by her tribe and speaking strange words. Ngali
had always been different. Asa thin-breasted girl
she had slithered through the bushes to watch the
mysterious rites of the menfolk, rites no woman had
ever seen. And she had dreamed of joining in the
intitjuma with them, pantomiming with them in their
prayers for food if emus were scarce and the tribe
felt hunger.
As she lay in the darkness beyond the firelight,
watching, it was always Worrigi her eyes followed,
for she knew it was to him that she had been
promised. Besides, he was younger than most of the
waiting husbands, he leapt higher and stamped harder
than the others in the dancing, and he always came
home with the largest kangaroo, the finest snakes and
lizards.
No. Other women never felt the life tremble in
their veins when their men approached them. But from
the first moment she had known this weird sensation.
Other women fondled their children, their dogs ;
but now, away from the influence of the tribe, Ngali
and Worrigi fondled each other.
Ngali wished they might find food quickly, so
that they would not have to return to the tribe.
Worrigi was not yet sufficiently won from the habits
of the tribe ; when they returned she would be herded
with all the other women and he with the other
husbands. He would think in their way, not hers,
and this wonderful happiness would be broken.
'T'HAT night, however, when Worrigi returned
* without even the smallest lizard, she began to
wonder if they would get back to the tribe in time.
Worrigi’s cheeks were now mere skin-covering of
jawbones and teeth, dry white teeth which he showed
when he spoke to her.
He stared towards the fire smouldering by the
rock, hoping Ngali had found something. “If we
were with the tribe we could find food. We
could hold intit junta. You are wise, Ngali,
but your wisdom cannot feed us. Your father
came from there” —he pointed to the darkening
sky —“yet he does not feed us.”
Ngali thought she was going to die then,
that minute. A hard knot came into her
throat. When it had gone and she was calmer
she knew it was her father’s indignation at
INTITJUMA is the name given
by Centralian abo. tribes to a sacred
and semi-secret ceremony, performed
and witnessed only by members
of the totemie groups concerned.
Name and form of the ceremony
vary in different localities. It is held
on a specially prepared ground, is
prolonged and involved, and includes
dancing and chanting directed not to
any Supreme Being but to the spirits
of the totem. In some cases Women
are allowed to take part. Each
totemie group has its own form of
Intitjuma, which may be performed
for an increase of emus, kangaroos,
honey-ants, witchetty-grubs, manna
or water. The time of the perfor-
mance is determined by the leader
of the group, but it usually coincides
with the approach of a good season.
If all goes Well, success is attributed
to the influence of the Intitjuma; if
not, the evil influence of some distant
tribe is blamed. Some of the cere-
monies are interestingly described
in Basedow's KNIGHTS OF THE
Boomerang.
Worrigi’s words. She lay awake, staring up at the
brilliant pathway of stars that led to her father’s home,
and slowly it dawned on her what she must do. He
must be told what they needed.
Quicker, more silently than a snake, she slithered
from Worrigi’s side and made her way through the
scrub to the bare patch beyond the hillock. She had
no totemic emblems to help her, but she had gathered
her dillybag, and in it was a knob of white clay, some
emu-feathers and bark-string. She must show her
father, just as the men showed their gods, that emu
was needed.
Tearing off pieces of the saltbush, she tied ruffles
around her ankles. A branch ending in a small clump
of foliage rose from behind her head in imitation of
the emu’s neck and head. The clay she had smeared
down the branch and down her face in one long white
streak. She bunched her emu-feathers and some
foliage on her back and hunched herself, her hands
tucked under her armpits. Then she strode into the
middle of the circular patch of sand and stood waiting
for her father’s attention.
If only the tribe could see her now — or Wor-
rigi! She stamped and jumped into the air to attract
her father, and then slowly, rhythmically, she began
loping around the circle, imitating first the guttural
noise of the male emu and after it the shrill, piercing
cry of the female.
There was no totem-pole, no dull thudding of
feet or beating of cupped hands on thighs. No one
to act hunter. Just she, Ngali; her father was a god,
and she was merely talking to her father.
She raised herself high on her toes and ran, still
in the long emu lope, faster and faster, for this emu
must hurry. She shook her bent arms, her bush-tail
bobbed, she rustled and flustered. Then she stopped
and waited. Again she gave the two cries one after
the other, and was on her way, on and on, again and
again, around the clearing, screaming, running,
shuffling. Her face glistened with heat, her body
trembled, yet she kept going until the air was shudder-
ing with her noise.
A star fell, and she knew then that he was coming.
He had kicked a sky-pebble accidentally as he strode
down towards her. Suddenly she was frightened.
Maybe he would take her back with him up the star-
path. She hesitated, much as an emu hesitates when
it senses intrusion, then she took on her chanting
scream again and circled on and on in mad frenzy.
A shadow flicked across the moon, and simul-
taneously Ngali felt a sudden thumping agony in her
hunched body. She knew. A star had fallen down
and hit her. As she fell fainting to the ground her
hands left her armpits and flew to the burning hurt
in her side. But she found no strange star-poison,
only the hard wet end of Worrigi’s spear protruding.
Slowly the ground on which she was lying became
warmer and wet, and slowly the soul of the lubra
crept out of the poor body and turned towards the
star-path.


A Serial Story of the Queensland Coast
By
VANCE PALMER
ILLUSTRATED BY
CLAIRE DALLEY.
Chapter X.
/.
B“ HOSE were the months when the town’s pulse
beat slow, when the boats lay thick in the
estuary with mouldy sails reefed, and
men along the front, unemployed through
circumstances or their own will, turned
-J expectant eyes to the flagstaff on the post-
office tower. Any message from Willis Island?
Would the cyclone strike that year or would it give
them a miss? It was six years since the town had
been ravaged: it was nearly time for another visita-
tion. They personified the cyclone as an animal, a
woman, malicious in intent, hysterical in temper;
they addressed the strange creature with a sort of
humorous braggadocio: “Come on! Do your stuff.
For God’s sake let all the stops out and get it over!”
It would have been a relief to see the red flag
flutter up to the top of the mast, signal that a crisis
was approaching. There was an emptiness in this
hanging about, a big gap to bridge before the coming
of April and the south-east trades. Black-bellied
clouds floated down from the north and broke in
downpours of warm rain, the sun coming out with
sickly brilliance to gild the sodden greenery. Grass
grew rank in side-streets, mosquitoes bred in the ruts
of the roads, and from the weeping figs along the
front came the mournful litany of Indian doves.
Even Cayley’s had a deserted look, the look of a
liner lying in dock with engines stopped and saloons
empty. Somewhere in its shadowed depths Laura
moved about listless-eyed, wondering if she could
afford a holiday to the south, wondering if the hotel
could stand the strain of a real blow, coming into the
bar when she heard Corcoran’s voice in the late after-
noon to ask him once again if she would be right in
going away till the bad weather was over. “I’m too
limp for words, Jimmy. Certainly too limp to decide
anything. Make up my mind for me.” Yet there
was small comfort in Corcoran. With his gull-bright
eyes and perky vitality he revelled in the swithering
heat and lived in hopes that this year some cataclysm
greater than the town had ever experienced would
strike it in full fury and provide a feast of sensation.
But nothing ever happened. Cyclonic storms
gathered in the wastes outside the Reef, raised a
flurry of frantic warnings through the air, and then
faded before they reached the coast, leaving a silence
greater than before.
NT EIL, hanging about the Kestrel, was oppressed
by this silence drawing around him. Stripped to
the skin, he lay on deck during the warm evenings,
looking over at the misty lights among the mangroves,
the primrose glare of the town beyond. There had
been a delay in getting the boat on the slips, and
a period of dull waiting lay ahead of him. He was
beginning to fight shy of the other men because of the
free-and-easy barrack with which they pelted him
when he showed up along the front.
“Well, you’ve got rid of Alfonso, Sandy.”
“What was the trouble? Found him pinching
stores, eh?”
“No, he was a rainbow —wouldn't come out till
the bad weather was over.”
“Never mind, Sandy ; you’re better without him.
He wasn’t a seaman’s bootlace. Only fit for one of
those spit-and-polish yachts with fishing-chains in the
stern.”
There was no way of resenting their gibes at
Besanck, yet it galled him to have to accept them
with a laugh or a merely-evasive counter. Everyone
took for granted there had been a quarrel and that
Besanck hadn’t left of his own accord.
Even Freda. His mind still rankled with the
memory of things she had said that afternoon by the
estuary. “You use people for your own ends. Climb
up on their backs and then kick them away.”
Did she really mean it? Or was it just a piece
of brick flung spitefully in the heat of the moment?
It was hard to decide. She had a way of talking as
if she had made up her mind about him, as if she
knew more about his nature than he did himself.
A mist filled his head when he thought of her:
his feeling for her was a confusion of tenderness,
body-hunger, animosity. He could take no pleasure
in the easy familiarity of her attitude towards him.
Didn’t she regard him as a so'rt of brother, perhaps
even a younger brother? Wasn’t that the explanation
of her bullying tone, her sudden intimacies, the light
way in which she could pick a quarrel with him and
make it up again?
Damn it all, he wasn’t going to be taken as
casually as that! If they were to make it up this
time it would have to be through her initiative. She
looked ugly when she was trying to assert her will:
her face became peaked and bloodless, her body
hard and angular, all mystery gone, all delicacy of
touch. He could feel his desire for her drying up,
his blood drawing away from her. That rim of white
around her eyes, that shrewish tightness of her upper
lip.
A man, he told himself, ought to keep women
at a distance, emphasise his independence, his male
strangeness. There was no meaning in this boy-and-
girl camaraderie that began in an easy breaking-down
of barriers and ended in indifference and contempt.
You gained a little, lost everything. Besanck had
always laughed at it, and Besanck, after all, knew
something about life.
He didn’t want to see Freda again for a while.
Pride in his own hardness was stiffening his will as
he lay on the hot deck, rowed about the stagnant
backwaters. A real son of his father, was he? Well,
let her think of him as that. Anything was better
than being taken for a tame cat.
Reading the weather reports at the post office
one day, he was surprised to feel a heavy paw on
his shoulder, hear a friendly chuckle in his right ear.
“Well, Sanderson, managed to hold out, have you?
Not shed the last of your white skin, eh, round there
in the backwaters among the brindles? I’ve been
looking after my end of your interests. That patri-
mony of yours hasn’t turned out such a wash-out
after all.”
Lamont was standing on the edge of the stone
steps, his face purplish-red in the heat, his holland
suit tight over his stomach, loose about his thin legs.
Neil looked at him resentfully. “My patrimony?
How long are you going to keep up that joke?”
Lamont’s eyes twinkled with bloodshot liveliness
behind their glasses. “Still feeling raw about it?
My dear boy, one has to learn to give and forgive.
And it’s not nearly such a joke as we thought at first.
Those Masterton shares —they’re actually worth some-
thing now. The Braxtons as well. The one thing
people will put money into these days is goldmining,
so most of the old shows are looking up. If you
liked to sell out all your holdings you could realise a
couple of thousand right away. J don’t advise you
to, mind: they’ll be worth more in a year or two.
But if you’re badly off for a bit of cash Come
into my office and talk things over.”
OITTING in Lamont’s office, watching him fumble
k —' with the paper that held reports of the share-
market, Neil’s impulse, as before, was to make a
gesture of renunciation. Damn this handful of
mouldy shares that had been tossed to him like a
picked bone to a dog! It was only an accident that
they had proved to be of any value. And they hadn’t
come when he really needed them: he could get
along without them now. Besides, hadn’t he made a
solemn vow to win through by his own unaided
efforts? In that, if in anything, lay the meaning of
his life.
“Pass it out,” a voice repeated. “You can afford
to pass it out. The worst part of the battle’s over.
No point in surrendering now.”
Hatred of his father came sweeping back, heating
his blood, blinding his eyes. There was mockery in
the crackle of Lamont’s newspaper. He imagined he
heard a chuckle behind him: he switched round to
stare at the dusty green curtains.
“Braxtons,” said Lamont. “Here they are.
Risen to fifty-seven bob in the last week. You’re
holding a couple of hundred of them. More of the
others.”
“Better hand them over to the hospital,” said
Neil. “It’s making an appeal for money. Or there’s
that fund for building a new flash stand for the race-
course. The old man would have been better pleased
to see his money going into that.”
Lamont dropped the glasses from his nose. “Eh?
What’s that?”
“Better hand them over to the town,” Neil
repeated. “I don’t feel they belong to me. The old
man wouldn’t have left them to me if he’d thought
they were of any value. Besides, I don’t want to
handle any of his money.”
Rising from his chair Lamont thrust his hands
into his pockets and stood staring at the inkwell with
heavy-lidded eyes. “Now look, Sanderson ; I hope
you’re not going to behave foolishly over this. Not
going to do something you’re bound to regret in a
year or two. You’re a young fellow yet: a few
hundreds may be the making of you any time. I
know how you feel about your father. That
woman! ... But be a sensible fellow and forget about
it. Forget anything else you may have against him.
Pecunia non olet. What I mean to say is it’s best to
let bygones be bygones. We’re living in a country
whose foundations weren’t laid by men in kid gloves.
You ought to have had that brought home to you
by now. None of us can throw the first stone.”
“It’s a personal matter,” said Neil stiffly. “I
have to trust to my own feeling.”
“No one can trust his own feeling. It’s one
thing to-day and another to-morrow. Feeling—you’d
run on the coral in no time if you let it have charge
of the tiller. Listen to me, my boy, and take a bit
of advice. Chuck away the first hundred of this
money on a trip to Sydney or somewhere. That’ll
give you time to think over things and get a bit
of perspective. You’ll come back with an altogether
different outlook, I’ll warrant. If not, well, there’s
no harm done.”
'"FHERE was a chaos of conflicting ideas in Neil’s
* mind as he left him and drifted out into the hot,
windless street where uncoated men hung about the
post office and taxi-drivers lolled in the fig-trees’ inky
shade. A trip away now while there was so little
doing? Delicious thrills of anticipation needled
through him at the thought. But once the plunge
THE STORY SO FAR . . .
Chris Sanderson, “ex-scrub-worker,
-contractor, -Cabinet Minister, undis-
charged bankrupt—a hell of a lot of
other things as well,” dies in Port Cowrie,
a North Queensland coastal town. Neil,
his son —they had met only once since
Neil was a youngster —buys a boat, the
Kestrel, and takes up fishing. Besanck:,
whom he met in a cane-cutters camp,
goes in with him as partner. They quarrel
and part company.
Other characters are:—
Laura Clune, who runs Cayley’s, a
large new tourist hotel in Port Cowrie,
Peter Jensen, an old Swedish car-
penter and boat-builder —he built the
Kestrel —and contractor who worked for
Sanderson in the early days,
Freda, Jensen s daughter,
Charlie, a colored boy who helps Neil
on the Kestrel, and
Myra, Charlie’s sister.


A shape approached, enveloping him in an atmosphere of chocolate
and cheap scent, laying a timid hand on his arm.
had been made, the money taken, he couldn’t go
back on it.
Lying on his still deck in the evening, listening
to the suck of tide around the dinghy, the faint voices
ashore, he argued the matter out with himself, trying
to burrow into his deepest recesses. Did this instinct
against taking his father’s money rise spontaneously
in him, a prompting of his inner nature, or was it an
idea that had become fixed, a bit of dead wood to be
cut away? Was it mere priggish impulse or a decent
sensitiveness in matters of honor?
“Whatever you decide now will affect your whole
life... No, it won’t; it doesn’t matter a damn either
way... Let it g 0... Take it and use it... You’ll be
throwing in the towel... You’ll be showing yourself
a man, not a youngster ridden by ghosts.”
His mind fastened on the image of Besanck lying
in his tin hovel among the rubbish-dumps. Once he
had paid Leo off he would have an easy conscience,
feel free in his possession of the boat. The echo of
Freda’s words was in the sucking tide, in the fret of
ukuleles from the shore: “I thought you were friends,
that you needed his help on the boat —his money, too.”
In the end he went back to Lamont’s office in the
main street, a slight flush under his eyes. “If you
could advance me a couple of hundred on those
shares I’d be glad,” he told him. “Someone’s got to
have the money, I suppose, and I need it more than
most.”
Lamont chuckled. “Now you’re talking sense.
Satisfied those scruples of yours aren’t wanted on the
voyage, eh?”
“Perhaps. Lots of things have to go overboard
when you’re in tricky water.”
A THRILL of new power came to him as he felt
the rustle of crisp banknotes between his fingers.
He had lived on husks too long, he told himself, stinted
himself till he was becoming a shadow. The need of
looking twice at a shilling made a man
feel mean, dwarfed him in his own
eyes, drained him of exuberance and
vitality. You had a right to that flush
of health and full living that came
from being able to throw money about
freely. It was fresh air in your lungs,
new blood in your arteries.
Yet he was made uneasy by the
bantering note in Besanck’s voice
when he appeared at the door of the
tin hovel and explained his errand.
“What is this, Neil? Been taking
a ticket in a lottery, eh? Or is it
robbing the till at Cayley’s?”
Neil sat down on a box at the
head of the bed and began fumbling
with the notes. “Don’t worry, Leo :
you won’t find any cops coming round
making inquiries. I wasn’t so hard-up
as I thought I was. And I haven’t
been feeling too comfortable lately
about the terms of our settlement.”
“Not? My dear Neil, I have no
complaint. It was something to feel
the pleasant wickedness of collecting
usury. Five per cent, on the balance
we arranged, was it? That was your
idea, not mine; but it has since given
me a thrill to know there was even so
little coming to me unearned. I have
been reading a history of the Jews.
How dull those early Middle Ages
before they had spread the excitement
of lending their hoarded capital!
With their enterprise a new age'begins.
The fertility of money is discovered,
its power of laying eggs... But let us
be quite serious. If you have cash to
spare why not spend it on the boat?”
“There’s enough for that. Enough
to give me a little holiday too.”
“Ah! You are off to Sydney.”
“No, I’m catching the Dutch boat
at Thursday Island. Going to Macas-
sar perhaps as far as Singapore.
There’s nothing doing here till the
trades come. I expect to be away a
month or two.”
They were polite to each other,
their eyes heavy with distrust. Neil,
watching Besanck’s bare feet emerging
from the tattered blanket, was carried
back to the week of storm off Broke
Island. The air, as then, was thick
with words unspoken ; but there was
a deadness in it now, a feeling of
minds too far apart for conflict to
have any meaning. “Does he guess
where the money comes from?” he
was thinking. And he searched the
alert, mobile face for an answer. To
Leo this surrender of his would be a
joke, a piece of ironic comedy, some-
thing to chuckle over whenever he
remembered their days together.
“Never mind; we’re square now. There’s no
laugh on either of us, really. And he’ll be gone
when I come back again.”
He had no doubt that now Leo had his money
he would sling his few things together and make off.
His mind, as he walked back to the port, was filled
with relief, anticipation, nostalgia for happy days
shared, gone to dust.
//.
TWO months had passed before he came back, and,
moving down the main street (it was April, with
bright winds and clear skies), he had a feeling
of seeing the port for the first time. Silk-
legged girls fluttering around the shop-windows, flow
of coatless men up from the wharves, casual grouping
of loungers under the fig-trees, along the post-office
steps, in front of the barber’s, where lottery tickets
were sold ; and, forming a background to the leaden
roofs, the blue of near mountains rising sheer: it
was all familiar, yet he found himself staring at the
buildings and faces with the eyes of a stranger. Or
was it with the eyes of a man waking from a dream?
There had been a dreamlike unreality about those
weeks at sea and in the ports of Java. For once
he had lived as if money was a thing of no account,
let himself drift, taken on a new character. It was a
changed world as soon as the known headlines were
left behind. You didn’t remember who you were,
where you belonged, lounging there on the covered
decks in the quivering brightness, watching the mist
on the flat skyline change to a port, a mountain,
fox-trotting to the loudspeaker with a Dutch girl
whose doll-features only came to life at the suggestion
of a cool drink. Waves from an unimagined sea
flowed over you. You could surrender to your senses
and imagination there in the palm-frilled courtyards
over which Javanese servants flowed softly in bare
feet, or among the nutmeg-groves of Bali where the
girl had stood watching you from the edge of the
fountain, Freda’s eyes in her head, her body slim as
young Myra’s.
It was an effort now to pick up the threads of
your life where you had dropped them, adjust your
mind to the necessity of making good catches, of
getting in ahead of the other man.
“There’s Sandy back! Who spread the yarn
that he’d come into money and gone for good?”
Loungers in front of Courtney’s fastened on him,
plied him with questions, brought him back to his
own world.
It was a late Easter and the hotels were full of
people from the hills, schoolchildren on holiday, a
sprinkling of tourists who were journeying down the
coast on an oversea peasure-boat. Neil piled his
heavy suitcases into a taxi and drove down to the
estuary. He found Charlie squatting on the deck of
the Kestrel sewing the leads on a new casting-net he
had made in hospital and surrounded by a swarm of
youngsters who watched him admiringly. The boat
looked trim and reeked of fresh paint.
“Well, Charlie? Yourself again, eh?”
A grin spread over the boy’s face as he threw
aside his casting-net and stood up, exhibiting his healed
leg.
“Yes, she’s jake. They don’t have to cut her
off after all. I guess they only talk about dot-and-
carry-one to keep me quiet.”
“It didn’t altogether do that. You’re a hell of a
bad patient, Charlie. How's the boat now they’ve
done her up?”
“Good. I took her out a week ago with a couple
of the other boys. Hardly needed to set the engine
going all the while we were on the water. That new
mast —it let her sail close to the wind.”
He showed Neil over her with a cocky satisfac-
tion, displaying the painted woodwork, the table
rigged between the bunks, the new curtains Myra
had hemmed for the portholes. There was a pride
of ownership on his glistening face. His place on
the boat had changed since Besanck had gone: he
was no longer the colored deckhand, doing his work
and keeping his mouth shut.
He gave a faint hump of the shoulders when
asked about Besanck. “I don’t see him about lately.
Might be he’s back in the sugar country. He don’t
like the smell of salt water, Mr. Besanck. Think the
smell of sugar more better.”
Neil was jarred by his tone: there was rancor
in it, a sense of personal triumph. The boy evidently
regarded Besanck as someone they had jointly
humiliated, finally got rid of to their own advantage.
Neil said abruptly: “Get some stores aboard,
Charlie—we’re going out to Tern Island. No fishing
this time: it’s just a holiday. I’ll be with you before
sundown.”
DETURNING to the port, watching the dimpled
'■ water, the boats moving like brown gulls, he was
filled with secret excitement. All the way down from
Java he had been weaving fantasies about the island.
It was Easter week: Freda would be there for her
holidays, probably with Katie and the Cerutti girl.
Blue skies heaped with cloud-blossom, boats poised
on their shadows in the still lagoon, tides brimming
over the powdered coral of the beach with the rustle
of silk.
He was moving over the leafy paths of the island
so softly that the pink-footed pigeons hardly fluttered
out of his way. He was clad in leopard-skins: he
had in his eyes the strangeness of a man returned
from a long journey. Blue wood-smoke curled up
among the undergrowth: the sight of it made his
heart turn over on its side. Spear in hand, he stood
watching a brown figure bending over a fire. A twig
snapped, blue-dark eyes flashed round upon him fear-
fully, gazing from beneath drifts of overhanging hair.
“Neil!”
“Freda! ”
The taxi stopped with a jerk in front of the
Jensens’ gate, left him marooned upon the strip of
cropped lawn amid a barking of small dogs.
“Why, it’s Neil... We’ve been asking all over
the place to try and find out where you’d gone, Neil
There was the usual quick pleasure in the old couple s
eyes as they tumbled out through the trellis door.
They had been sitting over their midday meal: they
drew Neil in from the hot brightness with a chatter
of talk and eager questions. Anna bundled the used
dishes on to a tray and hurried off to the kitchen for
fresh tea: Peter hobbled to the sideboard to bring
out the whisky. It was as if he had set a spring ot
fresh life bubbling up in them.
Yet as soon as that first simmer of high spirits
died down he was conscious of a ghost lurking some-


where in the background. Peter admitted that he had
been troubled with his eyes again: he had lost one or
two good contracts through being forced to lie-up
in a darkened room. It was only temporary, of course,
this ailment: he had come across a Chinese herbalist
who had done him more good than all the white
doctors and promised him that he would soon see as
well as when he was twenty. Already he could read
ordinary print again.
“You laugh, Neil. You think -I have become an
old woman, eh? No, I keep my commonsense. It
is all yoost a gamble, this playing with medicine. One
color sometimes prove to be better than another. I
don’t win on the red, so I try the blue. This time it
looks like 1 get my money back.”
There was no obvious change in the house, yet
the sense of heaviness was there, a slight abstraction
in Anna’s manner as she hovered about, setting fresh
tea on the table, an unwillingness on Peter’s part to
talk about the business. Silence seemed to be lurking
in all the corners, ready to flow back as soon as their
voices ceased. Outside, sulphur butterflies danced
through the shimmering whiteness of the garden: the
two terriers slept like stone images on each side of
the trellis door. And Peter, stretched along the lounge,
fossicked in his mind for little jokes and fragments
of gossip.
With apparent casualness Neil asked about
Freda: had she gone to the island this time for her
holidays?
“Not this time,” the old man told him. “Katie—
she want her to go walking somewhere. For once
Katie take the lead. By now she grow tired of the
island. Too quiet, she want to make out.”
A sharp sense of disappointment shot through
Neil. The green island itself, with its soft trees, its
coral sands, curled up in his mind like a burnt piece
of paper and crumbled slowly to ash. He sat talking
about the water-buffaloes of Java, hardly knowing
what he was saying, not greatly caring.
ONCERN about the old couple was the form his
uneasiness took as he wandered back through the
town. Peter had probably drifted into difficulties as
soon as he was left to look after his own books and
was in a worse position than he was willing to admit.
There was no use blinking the truth: he was a muddler,
and in a competitive world was bound to go under.
The days were past when a clever craftsman could
succeed through the quality of his work and the
skill of his hands. What Peter wanted was a manager,
one who could exploit his name and capacity yet
run the business in a modern way, see that there
were no overcharges from the mills and that the men
gave full value for their wages. Or a partner putting
a little money into the business and assuming control.
“It’s a job I might find it worth while to take over.
There’s no particular future on the water. Sanderson
and Jensen... ‘Not on the water. By the side of it,
where there’s pickings from the salvage.’ ”
He was standing in a dream on the kerb, watching
the holiday crowd pour into the cinema opposite,
when a hand touched him playfully on the shoulder.
“Back again, Neil? Someone told me you’d sold
your boat and gone off for good. I couldn’t believe it.
You’re the sort, aren’t you, that stays still and gathers
moss?”
A shock went through him at the sound of the
slow, teasing voice, at the sight of the long, indolent
figure in cream tussore. “Katie! Good Lord, I
thought you were away walking in the hills.”
“Really? No, I don’t get my holidays till late
this year: I’ve taken over the new department. And,
anyhow, can you see me tackling anything so energetic
as that? Not any more. I’ll pick a comfortable
hotel when the time comes and take all the frocks
I never have a chance to wear at home. See if I
can snare some old dodderer with an income...
Who told you I was away walking?”
“Old Peter. He said you’d gone off with Freda.”
Katie’s brows went up in slow astonishment.
“He did?”
“Well, I took it for granted it was you he meant.
There’s not likely to be any other Katie.”
They stood for a moment looking at each other.
Then an amused gleam, tinctured with malice, lit up
Katie’s eyes.
“Perhaps Freda told him that. Perhaps she didn’t
tell him anything. She treats her family to as much
truth as she thinks good for it like we all do:
homoeopathic doses. It was with your picturesque
friend she went holidaying they vanished into the
hill-country with packs up... Gr shouldn’t I have
admitted that? Should I have covered up and
pretended she’d decided to go alone?”
For, in spite of her poise, she was disconcerted
by the sudden stiffening of his body, the way his
eyes slashed at her, animal-like, menacing as fish-
hooks.
Half-an-hour later he was back at the boat, head-
ing out to sea.
111.
IN the public bar of the Crown and Anchor, amid
a haze of smoke, a clatter of glasses, men from
the wharves were arguing about the building of a
guest-house on one of the islands. Courtney, the
one-legged tocacconist, held the floor. From his
narrow cell whose door was guarded by a wooden
Indian (hatchet in one hand, cigar in the other) he had
watched the life of the port for forty years, and his
face, lean, sun-dried, impassive, looked a replica of
that image of wood. “The man who ought to have
had that contract is old Peter. It was right into his
hands. He’s got the boat and he’s got the men—got
the experience, too, for that kind of work. Couldn’t
get the timber, though. It’s no good putting up a
fight when you’re properly hooked. There comes a
time when the men who’ve got their fingers on the
reel don’t trouble to let out any more line: they just
wind in and use the gaff. The mills have closed down
on Peter.”
From one of the wharf-lumpers came an uncon-
cerned grunt. “Serve him right, the old smoodger.
He was always a blackleg.”
“Blackleg be damned! You known mighty little
about men if you’d sling that word at a decent old
cove like Peter. When did he ever go back on his
own class?”
“Depends on what you call his class. Hasn’t he
been cutting prices all his life? Finding out what
was the lowest anyone else could afford to tender
and then nipping in and getting the contract?”
“There’s nothing in that. If he cut things fine
it didn’t come out of the men’s wages. Ask Burt
or Yorkie Stevens or any of the men who worked
with him: they always found Peter a good boss. More
interested in his job and in giving his men a good
spin than in raking off big profits. That was why the
other contractors had such a derry on him.”
“Well, they’ve got him where they want him
now.”
“Yes, they’ve got him stonkered ; and the worst
of it is no one seems to care a hoot. There’s no one
left who remembers the way he always fought for
the bottom dog. It’s the end of old Peter —he’s too
long in the molars to begin again now. Besides, he’s
been bending his elbow a bit too much lately. I see
him padding about the wharves there, looking at the
names of the boats, yarning a bit with the luggerboys,
not knowing what the time of day is, not caring a
damn whether it’s Monday or Tuesday. And he’s in
here whenever he’s got a bob or two. Beer was
always a good way out of a blind alley for old Peter,
but he never overdid it before. I remember him when
he was the biggest building-contractor in town, and
that’s not such a hell of a long time ago, either.
What cruelled him was that Imperial Hotel contract.
He dropped a clear thousand over that.”
“Or the mills that were backing him did.”
“No, he had the money himself then. It was a
boom time in building. Picture-shows going up all
over the town, shopkeepers wanting new bungalows
along the esplanade. Peter was on the crest of the
wave those days. He’d been here longer than I had,
even: the very dogs along the street knew him. But
that sort of reputation doesn’t count now. Any
Johnny-come-lately can put it over the old hands as
long as he’s got financial backing.”
From the corner where a handful of unemployed
cane-cutters, strangers in the town, were chewing over
their various discontents a hot-eyed young man
growled aggressively: “And why not? Make every-
thing a barbed-wire reserve for the old hands, would
you? You’re spilling a lot of sentiment over
nothing. A hell of a tragedy, ain’t it, when some little
capitalist gets squeezed out after he’s done his dash!
(Continued on page 50.)
Lcunont thrust his hands into his pockets. “We're living in a country whose foundation,
weren’t laid by men in kid gloves.”


humanity’s movement “toward some far-off divine
event” becomes seriously shaken. She goes to London,
partly to get medical advice about a recurring pain
in her side and partly to see if she cannot read the
riddle of modern life, discovering in it renewed
grounds for the old faith, so that she can pass her
discovery on to Justin, Caroline and Rex.
The brothers’ stories are knit by Christy, a girl
who is implicitly pledged to Rex, but who would
rather be Justin’s mistress than Rex’s wife. Caroline’s
drama is worked out alone. She throws herself, in
desperation, at a man who wants only to amuse him-
self between exploring trips. She comes close to
taking her life when the inevitable end is reached.
Rex’s grandiose schemes collapse, but he gets a good
job managing a car-selling firm. Justin, after vainly
trying to market a dramatic scenario, abandons hope
of doing anything in serious art. He turns back with
resignation to his comic advertisements and, with the
same gesture, sends Christy to Rex.
Where the author is content to comment on life
purely by implication The Flowering Aloe is more
than ordinarily good. It gives a satisfying picture of
people struggling with personal difficulties that are in
some measure the outcome of general conditions.
But Miss Stevenson tries for more than is her fight
as a story-teller. She has a good deal to say, for
instance, about the fatuity of the films and uses
Justin and Christy ventriloquially to get it said. Also,
Selina’s adventures in London, boiled down, amount
to little more than the author’s exposition of the tricks
used by fake Messiahs and leaders of obscure cults
who prey on the distressed and credulous.
Character is what each of the family, including
Selina, falls back on in the end. Caroline plunges
again into work and finds some joy in having trust
invested in her. The book’s title is symbolic. The
aloe dies after flowering, but springs again from the
root.
THE REAL R. L. STEVENSON.
The writer of this article is librarian of the
extensive collection of Edwin J. Beinecke, of New
York, a collection exclusively limited to Stevensoniana,
and is a recognised authority on the subject. Beinecke’s
library contains the famous Nerli portrait of
Stevenson and is otherwise the completest collection
of Stevenson material in existence.
Some sort, of alchemy is active in the name of
Robert Louis Stevenson, for, although his grave has
hidden him for more than forty years, contact with
his name still charms people to join clubs bearing it,
to write books, articles and plays about him and, as in
New York City, to name a girls’ school after him.
A strange thing about much of this adulation is
that the greater number of these admirers are affected
less by his literary ability or “message” than by his
character. As they never knew him personally, the
character that influences them to homage and emula-
tion is the tenant of a ghost rising up from the printed
page and representing only an attenuated man. To
know him completely would thrill the realist and
dismay the idealist.
In all the vast rows and piles of material written
of Stevenson there cannot be found the man as he
was from his soul out. Not even from his own
voluminous published correspondence is he to be
assembled. But in his private notes and letters, written
with literary and conventional brakes off to a super-
latively trusted friend, may he be watched. And
what a surprise it is to see him cavorting in Rabe-
laisian fields before sprouting wings and soaring to
a cloud from which to radiate heavenly attributes!
There is no complete life of Stevenson, more is
the pity, for no novelist could possibly conceive so
spectacular and melodramatic a being, a combination
of the aesthetic and sensual, the pious and profane,
the knight and the lackey, never selling himself out
permanently to any part but tergiversating among
them. His native normal mind was made into a
curious instrument by the poisons of disease, parental
repression, drugs to check his cough, and alcohol used
to lift enervation and depression. He was stimulated
to creative action by an inherent urge to be “some-
body,” by beauty, by the need of money, and, more
than all else, by love.
Those very close to him who could have recorded
so very much more of the man than is generally
known refrained from doing so to escape involving
themselves. Besides, shortly following the “quick
shining Firefly’s” death, when good taste was “cricket”
even at the cost of truth, it certainly would not have
paid his kin financially to market any but a marionette
life.
Sidney Colvin was the first person chosen to
write the official life ; he was exceedingly close to
R.L.S., but had he been permitted to complete the
work it would have been of no greater value than
Balfour’s biography, which took its place, since he
would have been obliged, as Balfour was, to work
under the direction of Stevenson’s widow and her son.
Sidney Colvin was deprived of the pleasure of writing
the life because he was dilatory. Up to the spring
of 1899 it was thought he was devoted to kneading
the biographical material into shape acceptable to
the heirs, instead of which, it transpired, he had
spent all his leisure on a Rembrandt volume.
When this was discovered he was dismissed and
required to hand over all data in his possession to
Balfour. He did not give up without a struggle ;
glory and cash were at stake, and a highly illuminating
and undignified row was carried on through the mails,
principally between himself and Lloyd Osbourne. At
last a compromise was effected whereby he was to
give up all right to do the biography for the privilege
of editing Stevenson’s letters; he was also to be
permitted to preface definite periods with his own
biographical notes —that is, he understood so, until
proofs began to flow from the press, when he woke
up to the fact he was only ghost-writing for the
family. Their orders alarmed him ; he begged them
to pause before coating or glozing commonly-known
episodes, but to no end ; the published work appeared
exactly as Lloyd Osbourne and his mother dictated.
Paragraphs were rewritten by Osbourne in spite of
Colvin’s protests, and nothing was allowed to pass
that was not laudatory of the family and hero-building
for R.L.S.
And yet, even had the family not demanded that
Colvin should dance to their tune, he probably would
have rendered the letters useless as a fuller portrait
of Stevenson because of the deleting disease from
which he suffered. Then, too, unknown to him, there
was in existence the most amazing group of letters by
R.L.S., which he did not see until long after the death
in Vailima. He must have squirmed as he turned
page after page—had he ever known this particular
Stevenson? Certainly no real life could be produced
omitting him.
Henley, of violent temper, might have given the
public an excellent life of Stevenson, as full and frank
as anyone, save Charles Baxter (Stevenson’s lawyer
and executor of his will). It was Henley who exploded
in a magazine article, scattering smashed fragments
of Balfour’s plaster saint over the nicely-polished
floor. This article, if withheld until his violated sense
of honesty had resumed some calm, could have been
extended to cover his entire relationship with R.L.S.,
ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON.
When Stevenson came to Sydney (his fourth
visit ) in 1893 he “made the acquaintance
of Archibald, of THE BULLETIN. who took
him across to the famous artists’ camp or
colony at Balmoral. There he met Julian
Ashton, Streeton, Tom Roberts, A. J. Daplyn,
B. E. Minns, and many others, including
Percy Spence, who did a pencil sketch of him,
now in the National Portrait Gallery,
London." — Geo. Mackaness, in “R. L.
Stevenson: Associations with Australia”;
“R.A.H.S. Journal." The above is a reproduc-
tion of Spence’s drawing, which was bought
by the National Portrait Gallery in 1899.
from the beginning of the friendship to the bitter
end ; and it would have been a vivid history. He,
though, would have had to confess to his jealousy of
Stevenson’s literary success and his resentment against
a fate that, while totally neglecting to reward his own
genius, heaped on Stevenson’s lesser talent almost
miraculous prizes. He would have had to relate that,
in spite of being the captain of his fate and master
of his soul, he allowed Stevenson’s love-affair with
Mrs. Osbourne and subsequent marriage to her to
devil him to bitter denunciations of the man who
was so much his friend. Strange to say, R.L.S. bore
with him through all this infantile behavior and
broke with him over an occurrence where Henley,
for once, was perhaps in the right.
Henley was devoted to Katharine de Mattos,
Stevenson’s cousin. She wrote a story and read it to
Mrs. R. L. Stevenson. The author tried to sell it
without success; imagine, then, her surprise and
Henley’s when one day they ran across it published
in a magazine under Mrs. Stevenson’s name. In
spite of the fact that the theme had received different
treatment from the original, there was no question
at all about the real creator. Henley immediately
was up in arms, championing Mrs. de Mattos, and
he communicated his uncomplimentary opinion about
the matter to Stevenson, who of course sided with his
wife, claiming that Katharine had given her permission
to use the story. Henley remained rudely uncon-
vinced, Mrs. de Mattos contemptuous, and the wedge
was driven which fractured for all time the famous
friendship.
If Henley had added all this to his article, plus
their many escapades together, even then he would
have been far from exhibiting the whole R.L.S., for
one of the most beautiful facets the Scot possessed
Henley knew nothing about. In criticising this side
of her husband Mrs. Stevenson said he was kinder
to his enemies than to his friends, which was not so
much a virtue in him as the sublimation of what his
conscience told him was a sin. At all events, had
Henley known of it, regardless of its origin, his violent
article might have been differently composed. But
he did not know that long after their rupture Stevenson
entrusted to Charles Baxter the delicate mission of
seeing that Henley never wanted for food or lodging ;
quite unßnown to him, the funds that so mysteriously
turned up at the psychological moment to save embar-
rassment were supplied surreptitiously by the terribly
overworked and tired invalid of whom he could barely
say a kind word. It is a tragic pity that Henley did
not know.
Some years ago an American claimed to have
rectified the cupidity and ignorance of previous
Stevenson biographers and endowed his day with his
own perfect version of a real life. According to his
personal appraisement, he was gifted with the vision
of a seer ; none of the dark or shadowed places of
R.L.S.’s soul could hide from him their secrets ; he
flooded them with the white light of psychological
understanding and scholarly dissection. The method
he employed, apparently, was that of emotional reac-
tion to Stevenson’s unpublished and published work,
with the loud pedal on the poems. He was aided and
abetted along historical lines by Lloyd Osbourne’s
ex-wife, Katharine D. Osbourne, a lady Mrs. R. L.
Stevenson- denounced in her will as having pursued
her through life with malicious slander. The fruit
of this method and collaboration was hectic if not
accurate, and the uninformed hailed it as the last
word on a hitherto obscure subject.
To the unemotional investigator it was plain that
the author had, paramountly, his point to make—the
superstition that Stevenson was unhappily married
to a woman for whom he had sacrificed his literary
integrity and from whose nefarious influence he was
planning to escape to some obscure island. Stevenson’s
“cue” (?) stories were introduced as irrefutable evi-
dence of the theory ; their hidden symbolism (!) was
his confession to the world that his nature and art
had “suffered through concessions made to the woman
he had married through motives, presumably, far more
of charity than of love.” The suppression by Mrs.
Stevenson and Colvin of a joint letter by husband and
wife, written from Vailima to Colvin, regarding one
of the “cue” stories, was built up as the case against
Mrs. Stevenson.
Certainly as the reader was carried along on the
tide of enthusiasm it looked as though the author had
R.L.S. trapped and Mrs. R.L.S. just where he wanted
her, and that was in no flattering position. But the
author had made one small mistake in fact which
brought his house of cards about his ears, and that
was that the letter was never suppressed! It had
been published many years before the investigator
essayed his task, in the Vailima Letters, where he had
failed to find it. The “cue” stories themselves, read
by an impartial mind and checked by Stevenson and
his wife’s reason for their being, are quite innocuous.
The most one can say for such a life as this is that
the writer is an entertaining novelist lost to his
medium.
Charles Baxter stands alone as the one man who
could have given us the complete and unabridged life
of Stevenson. Unfortunately he did not do so. He
was too forthright to hoodwink the world with a
doctored variety and he dared not give a true one.
To him alone R.L.S. spoke without reserve, from
him he hid nothing. There are letters in existence
from Stevenson to Baxter beginning as far back as
the early Edinburgh days of pubs and wenches,
suffering and poverty, dreams and disillusionment, and
continuing down to a very short while before his
death in Samoa. These are the man. In them he
wrote out his reactions to his environment wherever
it might be, in the comfortable bosom of the family,
at home or abroad, ill or well ; he discussed without
care intimate phases of his relations’ lives and
criticised his kin—some would be surprised to learn
what he really thought of them while they fattened,
self-satisfied, on his bounty. His parents did not
escape ; the key to his character they did not possess
—cosmic sensitiveness, physical warmth and tender-
ness, and the magical ability to mix mud pies or make
a star. His friends did not escape, and neither did he
spare himself. His feet were of clay, his heart red
and gold, and his head, if often befuddled with the
strong brew of life, screwed on right.
It must always be regretted that Baxter, who
knew all this, the one man in possession of as much
as any human being can know of another, did not set
it down. No one now can. It is true the letters from
Stevenson to Baxter exist, and they may yet be read
with the intention of writing a new life from them,
but at the best the written word of a man is not
sufficient to hang or crown him. One needs to have
known him personally, to have watched the lights and
shades in his eyes as he spoke, to have been able to
catch and interpret the expression that either trans-
formed or transfigured his features, to have been able
to learn hidden things from the inflection of his voice
and weigh his gestures. If one could bring this
experience to a correspondence he then could read
it intelligently and be equipped to write a life, a real
life, of a man ; and none other is able.
GERTRUDE HILLS.
[lt is not so clear that Henley did not know of Stevenson s
letter to Baxter. George S. Heilman in The True Stevenson
quotes a letter from Katharine D. Osbourne, Monterey, Cali-
fornia, December 22, 1923, which states: “Stevenson
once wrote to Charles Baxter to send out of his royalties a
certain sum to Henley, and in the gay way Stevenson often
had of putting things, and because he did not like to name
to Charles as large an amount as he wanted to give to
Henley lest Charles disapprove on the perfectly right ground
that Stevenson parted from his money too easily—he dashed
off some very unfortunate remarks about Henley would spend
it anyway on women, and so the amount, though small, was
enough. Now Charles had a peculiarity: he repeated every-
thing told him, and in this case showed Henley Stevenson s
letter. It made Henley furious....”—Ed. R.P-1
Vance Palmer is writing a memoir and will select
the essays and reviews to go in a volume com-
memorating A. G. Stephens, “The Bookfellow, for
many years editor of the Red Page. A Melbourne
committee comprising Mrs. Hubert Church, Miss
Kate Baker, Miss C. E. Ritchie and Miss Joan
Davidson and R. H. Croll, Percival Serle, F. Wilmot
(Furnley Maurice) and G. Byrne will see it through
the press. Subscriptions 10s. 6d., to G. Byrne, 4
Westley-avenue, Garden Vale, 5.4, Victoria.


A FEELING
of WELL BEING
During the life of shifting scenes
and happy times, the traveller Ly
Orient Line delights in a new
feeling of well-being promoted by
deeper comfort and constant service.
FEELING
TASTE • SIGHT • SCENT • HEARING
Whether you travel across the world
or cruise to Papua, New Guinea,
Fiji, New Zealand or Tasmania
AN ORIENT
GRATIFIES
L I
E VO V AG E
EVERV SENSE
ORIENT LINE
ROYAL MAIL STEAMERS
ORIENT STEAM NAVIGATION CO. LTD. INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND


PURPLE.
PARA
alma
ill ■
■
■
m
m
-
m
>••,
u
■
£
!:
8
i 81
■
.
Mi
■
■
■i
Excellent View of Interior of One of the Many Large Storage Cellars.
urn


“EVERYMAN, WILT THOU GO WITH ME?”
“Now, Jack, we’re working hard to get you into a fight, and remember England expects every man to do his duty.”
“Did you say ‘every’ man?”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
252IBB; 'Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: National Mutual Buildings, 91
King William Street, Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Saywell. Buildings, 115 Lambton
Quay, Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London,
E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques .)
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji and
United Kingdom via “All Sea Route,” 2d. New
Hebrides and United Kingdom via France or
America, 3d. To all other places, 4d.
TO COMMEMORATE ANZAC.
To-day there is peace at Gallipoli. Places such as
the brown bit of plateau ironically called Shell Green
in 1915 are green with grass. So are parts of the
once shrapnel-torn and shell-pitted gullies. Sheep
graze or bunch together in the shade of bushy trees
that have come into their own again. The grim
hillsides the Diggers scrambled up never were a land
flowing with milk and honey, but now they have at
least the appearance of a quiet pastoral scene. In
the general prospect even graves and memorials
blend as part of a timeless peacefulness.
The commemorators of Anzac Day especially
those leading in the commemorating next Sunday—
could not have a better text for the times than is
provided by that Anzac which the ordinary processes
of Nature have set up. It stands as a symbol of
peace; the peace which, despite warmongering,
dangerous political philandering and provocative and
hate-breeding propaganda, has prevailed for the bulk
of the world nearly 20 years. It might be worth the
while of preachers and others to keep in mind for this
one day, at least, that, as far as the British people
arc concerned, that is a pretty long stretch of peace.
But throughout this peace period, as never before,
the world has been loud with war rumors. Because
of the mutual suspicions bred by those rumors, every
country with anything to protect is compelled to
spend huge sums of money annually keeping up a
defence strength competent to cope with the world
war which many foolishly mouth and a few sincerely,
if mistakenly, believe to be imminent. All those who
profit by such scaremongering are profiting even
without the war turning up. These are the suppliers
of various kinds of things—including sensationalism—
and all the variety of windbags who talk or write for
money, out of vanity, or merely in error.
Leaders of the Anzac Day commemorating next
Sunday—preachers especially—might avoid making
thundering asses of themselves and dupes of their
hearers if they were to pause long enough to ask
themselves what Christian purpose they would be
serving by joining in this chorus of false prophecy.
If they have other than a self-appointed right to get
into pulpits and up on soapboxes they should have
an intelligence above the acceptance of the mere
printed word as gospel.
A great deal of nonsense, is spoken and an
enormous amount of twaddle is swallowed because
such acceptance is the rule instead of the exception.
In Australia, where people are peculiarly at the mercy
of mendacious propaganda, it is unfortunately neces-
sary to approach even what may be accurate infor-
mation with the greatest suspicion. So much alleged
information has turned out to be spurious.
Cables, broadcasting and other forms of com-
munication may have made the world smaller, but while
the stuff which comes over them is at all doubtful
Australia must remain under a serious geographical
handicap. This makes it particularly necessary for
anybody here who proposes to make a speech or
preach a sermon touching overseas matters, and does
not want to make a fool of himself, to ask himself
earnestly whether he has any real knowledge, or
whether he is merely about to reiterate what scare-
mongers and other dangerous people have told him.
Anybody who considers for a minute will realise
that in the past few years a great mass of what he
has been told has been of a nature likely to inflame
his dislike, suspicion and hatred of certain peoples
on the other side of the world. One of these peoples
is the Italians. Propaganda against them has been
so loaded for so long that many who, just about the
time the landing at Anzac was being consolidated,
were thinking beautiful thoughts about these people
for their having then come in on the Allied side now
regard them with feelings bordering on hatred. Yet
the Italians not only have not injured either those
persons or Britain, but are incapable of doing so.
Italy, despite the exaggerations of the sensational
press, is really a poor country. It is inhabited by a
mostly pleasant and sometimes brilliant race of people
who have been friends of Britain for ages. Italy has
now a form of government evidently suited to its own
temperament and its own circumstances, and a form,
moreover, which it has made no attempt to export.
Before anybody adds his voice to the chorus of
hate-making he might well consider Italy as it is, as a
change from what the propagandists represent it to be.
Another country embraced in the hate-making is
Germany. It is unquestionably a first-class Power,
and it has insistently declared itself to be on the side
of world peace. A Christian thought might perhaps
be given to the idea that these declarations have been
genuine, and that a feeling for peace in Germany has
been a great force in world peace having been main-
tained so long. That Germany has armed itself
heavily is true ; so, and in advance of it, has its vastly
more populous neighbor, Russia. Also, Germany’s
other neighbor, France, has made its pact with Russia,
apparently hemming Germany in ; Germany’s protest
that it has so armed itself necessarily in self-defence
is certainly as worthy of credence as any other
country’s self-defence plea. True, it remains under
suspicion for having launched the last world war ;
but countries whose international morality is now
regarded as lily-white have all in their day brought
war to the world. If their professions of unswerving
peacefulness are to be accepted, Germany’s certainly
should be also. Like Italy, too, Germany has its own
form of government suited to its peculiar conditions,
and, like Italy, it has made no attempt to export it.
What is most urgently needed in the world to-day
is the encouragement of more openly friendly feelings
in countries such as this for countries such as those
and between peoples of all countries. Instead, what
is happening is the propagation of new hatreds.
Anzac is at peace among its hills. But no hate
propaganda has circulation there.
Bravo, Baldwin!
Something must have gone wrong with the news-
papers’ war in Spain. A month ago victory roosted
securely on the hammer-and-sickle flag; “knee-deep
in mud, the loyalists pressed on” until they had driven
“40,000 Italians” 60 miles from Madrid. The Madrid
correspondent of the “News-Chronicle,” who is (or
was until recently) a French Red named Paco—
according to an admiring colleague, he was imprisoned
during the Great War because he refused to fight
for France in its long agony—pronounced it another
Battle of the Marne. Congratulations flowed from
Mr. Ernest Hemingway, Mr. Esmond Romilly, the
Hon. Jessica Freeman-Mitford and other celebrities,
and Mr. Errol Flynn hastened to place his Hollywood
sword at the service of the conquerors.
Last week a magical change came over the scene.
Some 10,000 “rebel” soldiers, who had somehow been
forgotten in the rout of the Italians, suddenly bobbed
up within Madrid itself and began fighting with
astonishing vigor. The incident revived annoying
memories of Toledo, where a few determined men
established themselves in the Alcazar, and, though
repeatedly summoned to surrender, as these intruders
have been, could never be turned out. And in the
north the “rebels” completed their investment of
Bilbao.
That gave newspapers a chance of effecting a
diversion in favor of the hammer-and-sickle side. It
was alleged on the worst authority that Franco had
threatened to fire on the British Navy if he caught it
convoying food-ships to Bilbao ; and four British food-
ships were known to be on their way there. This
pointed to the “rebel” leader being quite mad, but it was
explained that he had been driven crazy because of his
many failures in battle, and that in his dementia he
thirsted to bring about a general European war.
Bilbao is within the region assigned to Britain
for surveillance under the non-intervention agreement.
The British Government announced that it would
tolerate no interference with British shipping on the
high seas and that it could recognise no blockade of
Bilbao, having conceded belligerent rights to neither
side. At the same time it had warned British vessels
that, since mines had been laid off Bilbao, it could
not protect them if they ventured within the three-
mile limit, and they had better keep out of the neigh-
borhood until normal conditions were restored.
Beyond all question, it was the right attitude.
The British Government has championed the cause
of non-intervention in Spain. Forcing a passage for
food-ships would have been a violent abandonment of
a policy which, though not then actually in force, had
had some moral effect already. It would have im-
perilled the very world peace which non-intervention
was designed to preserve ; and there could be no glory
for the Royal Navy in beating or overawing
the personnel of the few poor warships possessed by
either of the Spanish factions. There was also the con-
sideration, at which a Cabinet Minister hinted not
obscurely, that if the Royal Navy escorted merchant-
men to Bilbao inside the three-mile limit the Japanese
might take it as a precedent for escorting luggers to
Darwin in defiance of H.M.A.S. Larrakia.
But pacifists broke out into howls of fury
reminiscent of their performances during the last
phase of the Abyssinian War. “Fear of Franco’s few
antiquated ships has led Britain to refuse to protect
merchantmen” was the “News-Chronicle’s” effort.
“Many members are asking whether the British Navy
exists only to show the white flag in Spanish ports”
hissed the Manchester “Guardian.” To realise fully
the audacity of these insulting rags it is necessary
to remember that they have striven for years to dis-
arm the men they would hurl into another war. On
the other side of the Channel, the Communist
“Humanite” “roundly condemned Britain’s attitude of
surrender to Franco’s blackmail.” This, read through-
out the British Empire, must have strengthened the
feeling of plain men everywhere that the Baldwin
Government was right. When a British Empire
Government does the opposite to what pacifists,
quitters and Communists demand, it can’t be wrong.
The S.P. Uproar.
Aided by a number of things, including the voices
of those most likely to profit by possible steps in
suppression, the uproar against s.p. betting is achieving
new peaks of din. Nobody is likely to question that
this form of illicit gambling has got completely out of
hand or that it is both morally and economically
undesirable. But everybody must be equally aware
that the outcry against it is throwing up a disgustingly
mealy-mouthed lot of hypocrisy and false argument.
Of all those fulminating against it the ones who
rely on moral grounds have the weakest footing. Only
by specious pleading can it be given the distinction
of being worse than other forms of gambling. The
worst that can be said against it is that it is a most
popular form. That is to gauge vice by degrees of
popular approval. In any case, it is no more popular
than the lotteries, against which there is no such
insistent outcry. And it is no less gambling to walk into
a barber’s shop and put down ss. 6d. for a lottery ticket
than it is to put the same amount at the same address
on a horse at s.p. Indeed, the fact that lotteries are
legalised in four States and have agencies in thousands
of shops in cities, suburbs and towns is a standing
example and encouragement in gambling.
The only thing comparatively in favor of the
lotteries is that some of the rake-off goes to the sup-
port of hospitals ; but that, if it be an advantage, is
an economic and not a moral one. Against it might
be argued that if the money was not being raked off
the people might have the cash in hand to pay their
own hospital bills or equitable taxes to that end. That
the gambler is protected in legalised gambling is true,
but as well it is true that he is also taxed. Welshing
by s.p. bookmakers is rare, and there is no tax.
These things do not make s.p. betting any the
more desirable, but they partly explain its popularity.
One of the strongest forces behind that popularity is
the widespread growth of legalised gambling. The
lotteries have fostered the gambling spirit, until every
second person in the community is a gambler. In
these circumstances to single out one expression of the
Government-injected gambling spirit as heinous is
ludicrous hypocrisy.
Even more laughable hypocrisy emerges through
the anti-s.p. din. It should be noted that those kicking
up most of this din are daily newspapers. It should
also be noted that throughout the din they are pelting
a particular scapegoat —broadcasting. The impression
is created that broadcasting is alone responsible for
the growth of s.p. Dailies persistently crusade
against broadcasting in those terms. But no daily
altruistically offers to vacate the very profitable s.p.
field itself. In N. S. Wales it is a generally-known fact
that s.p. betting is settled on the starting prices pub-
lished in the “S. M. Herald.” Granny, who can
fulminate against the pernicious influence of broad-
casting with the best of them, would fight like a
bearcat before she would give up that privilege.
Before broadcasting achieved the miracle of
instantaneous dissemination of racing news the “Sun”
used to pride itself on how rapidly it would have the
results on the streets, whence they were conveyed as
rapidly as possible to pubs and other places where
s.p. punters congregated. The only difference between
that and broadcasting is that broadcasting happens to
be able to do the job faster ; therefore the “Sun” is
not now so necessary on Saturday afternoons. But
the “Sun,” while fulminating against the pernicious
influence of broadcasting, makes no offer that if
broadcasting of race results is stopped it will volun-
tarily decline to thrust itself urgently on to the streets
at the rate of an edition to every race.
In the plain man’s conception of equity it must
appear that the suppression of broadcasting in this
respect must automatically benefit daily papers. What
he would then be inclined to ask is why should such
a privilege be taken from one vested interest and
allowed to another. Why should the new firm, merely
because it is new, better equipped and more com-
petent to do the particular job, be barred from compet-
ing with the old firm? It is an utterly unreasonable
proposition.
There is one way in which s.p. betting could be
stopped instantly. It has been pointed to in The
Bulletin before, but it deserves repeating because it
provides the perfect touchstone for testing-out the
sincerity of all anti-s.p. betting crusaders. S.p. betting
could be stopped instantly if the first information
permitted to be published about any race meeting
was that contained in the racebooks sold on the course
on the day of the races. How sincere the bulk of
anti-s.p. crusaders are may be judged from the fact
that they will instantly dismiss that suggestion as
preposterous.
M.C.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Two Pounds a Minute.
A shudder went through an overtaxed community
when a newspaper reporting the public inquiry which
has succeeded the public inquiry into the police
inquiries into s.p. cases and sequels recorded a casual
remark that the proceedings were costing £2 a minute.
The first inquiry began on March 13, 1936. A
K.C. and another barrister were briefed “to assist the
Commission and the [police] administration.” Four
other counsel were added, the Government having
"agreed to bear reasonable legal expenses” for a
group of Assemblymen and others. The report
presented to Parliament is dated November 30, and
contains this interesting summary:
The Commission sat on 91 days, 68 days being
devoted to taking evidence, and counsel addressed for
23 days. Twenty-seven cases were heard, 250 witnesses
were examined (83 were members of the police force),
and 119 exhibits were tendered in evidence.
The report was condemnatory of a number of
officers, who were promptly dismissed. Two have
been reinstated at the instance of the Police Appeals
Board ; in 13 other cases the Police Appeals Board
reported that it had “no jurisdiction,” the 13 having
been dismissed, not by the Commissioner but by
the Minister. They and others had already issued
writs claiming heavy damages from the Government
for wrongful dismissal.
The present inquiry was begun in March, 1937.
It was set in motion because a police inspector com-
plained that he had been condemned in his absence
abroad, and because the police administration had
conducted inquiries on its own account concerning
a certain Constable Miller, of whom the Commis-
sioner said in his report:
To my mind Constable Miller in very trying circum-
stances showed a standard of honorable conduct and
regard for the truth which reflects great credit on him.
The no-longer-absent inspector gave evidence.
Then he arrived one morning with a “dramatic
announcement”: “I have come to the conclusion that
my finding after my inquiries,” which finding was
detrimental to Constable Miller, “was wrong.” Con-
stable Miller, in his evidence, said he had taken a
blank warrant from the locker of a since-dismissed
sergeant “without him knowing.” There was “an
angry scene” between the Police Commissioner and
Constable Miller’s counsel, and Constable Miller’s
counsel read a glowing passage from “a report by
Sergeant Sweeney on Constable Miller’s conduct at
Nyngan.”
His whole conduct could not be construed to mean
or suggest the outcome of any duress which he may
endeavor to influence has been endured by him, and
being regarded as far back as the year 1928 as a resource-
ful and vain person and a prevaricator of the truth, he
has seized the opportunity particularly at a time when
his forced loss of memory would receive all the notoriety
desired, per medium of the newspapers, and it is quite
apparent now that whatever were the guiding' influences
prior to him leaving Sydney for Trewilga, and the short
duration of time after arriving at Nyngan, and regaining
his known and true mental faculties, and in a" manner
which it is established beyond doubt he did, it is most
difficult to comprehend otherwise.
It is matter for rueful reflection by taxpayers
that the members who brought up the s.p. cases
in Parliament would have been satisfied with an
inquiry by select committee. Governments like Mr.
Stevens’s frown on this form of investigation, though
it has been proved useful for centuries. It is not
grandiose enough or something.
Paterson on Top.
The United Victorian Country party sent 500 delegates
to its annual conference, which was held at Geelong.
On the final day “many angry groups formed” ; the
president, Mr. R. R. Skeat, was “counted out amid
cries of ‘Rafferty rules,’ ” and “three speakers tried
to make themselves heard through different micro-
phones.” This seems very like the sort of unity
achieved in the Labor party, and furiously exempli-
fied by the “Worker” and the “Labor Daily.”
Mr. Skeat is a member of the Agrarian group
which is against composite Ministries. Since the
Victorian general election of March, 1935, this
group had had things all its own way. Its first victory
was gained when it withdrew the Country-party
Ministers from the alliance with the State U.A.P.
and caused the willing seceders to take office depen-
dent on Labor. At the Geelong conference it tried
to get authority for the withdrawal of the C.P.
Ministers from the Government at Canberra. In
this it failed badly, and Mr. Skeat was defeated for
the presidency (the voting was 387 to 305) by an
A.I.F. colonel, Mr. G. J. Rankin, who has no bigoted
objection to composite Ministries.
Altogether, it looks as if Mr. Paterson, the Freer
case notwithstanding, exercises a greater influence in
this “United” party than any other figure in it, even
Premier Dunstan.
Cancer Alarmists.
No attention need be paid to alarmist statements
concerning a heavy increase in Australian cancer
deathrates, no matter to what source they are ascribed
by the bogey-raiser. There is good reason to believe
that, after taking into account the much-improved
methods of diagnosis evolved during the last quarter-
century, the actual prevalence of cancer in Aus-
tralia may have fallen slightly, so far as it is indicated
by deaths. The whole question is merely one of
figures, and is clearly set out in the last issue of the
Commonwealth Year-Book.
The only age-group in which there has been any
apparent rise in cancer mortality is that of 70 or over.
The figures are probably due to better diagnosis. Among
persons under 70 there has been no rise since 1911.
There were many more actual cancer deaths in 1936
than there were in 1911, but in the interval two
important changes occurred in the Australian popula-
tion. It increased in total numbers, and, more im-
portant still, the number of people who reached the
ages at which cancer risks are greatest more than
doubled.
Cancer is a disease of the elderly and old. Where
the proportion of old is increasing relatively to the
young as, with the lower birthrates and stagnant
immigration of the last 20 years, it has done, and must
continue to do, in Australia —there will be more and
more cancer deaths among the total deaths. But
there would have been no more cancer in Australia
than there is now if the million or so babies who
would have been born if the birthrate hadn’t gone
to the bow-wows had been added to the population.
More white or bald heads are to be seen
nowadays, but it does not mean that Australia
is growing more white or more bald. It means that
in each hundred of us there are more who have
reached the white or bald ages than there were a
quarter of a century ago and fewer who have not.
The prospects of cure of cancer have improved
immensely, even within the last few years. With it,
time is the dominating factor —time between the first
noticing of anything unusual and the seeking of
medical advice. In the majority of cases of cancer
death the verdict should be one of suicide by procras-
tination or cowardice in learning the truth. Treat-
ment is no longer a matter of the surgeon’s knife.
What, ten years ago, would have been regarded as
miracles are now the commonplaces of cancer clinics
all over the civilised world. Their greatest tragedies
are those unfortunates who hesitate too long before
they bring their demon to the only shrine where it
can be exorcised.
Brisbane's Municipal Fight.
Brisbane is about to have a triennial election of its
City Council. The council comprises 21 paid aider-
men — the Lord Mayor at £lOOO a year, plus £lOOO
“allowance,” and a score of others at £3OO each.
The Lord Mayor is Mr. Alfred J. Jones, an affable
gentleman oozing “optimism” and a firm believer in
loans. Mr. Jones says it is a fair thing to “make
posterity pay”—a soothing doctrine, but fallacious,
since posterity, if it ever does pay (Is. in the £
of all Queensland Government loans since the year
one, or 1859, had been repaid up to last June), will
pay itself. Meantime, the Brisbane municipal loans
are roughly about £2O millions. Candidates are
quarrelling hotly over the actual figure; but it is
indisputable that in the last financial year service
charges on loans and bank overdraft amounted to
£1,425,806 —equal to 5 p.c. on millions.
The municipal debt costs the community £4 12s.
per head—men, women and children. It comes to
approximately £2O per inhabited building—say a rent
of Bs. a week for a debt which already amounts to
nearly 100 p.c. of the official unimproved value of
all the land in the borough (incidentally, the biggest
in the world, covering 385 square miles), and which
is constantly growing.
Mr. Jones is Labor, and Labor is making a
strenuous effort to hold its majority or increase it. But
its central executive, known as the Q.C.E., disqualified
six of the sitting Labor aldermen, including the chair-
man of the five executive committees of the City
Council; and some of the rejected ones are standing
as Independents. The reasons for the disqualifications
have never been published, and ordinary electors are
entitled to wonder whether the procedure may not be
repeated when the Q.C.E. feels like it. In the cir-
cumstances, it will be astonishing if there is no
transfer of votes to the Citizens’ Municipal Organisa-
tion, which is running candidates on the principal
issue of abolishing party politics from municipal
affairs.
Dreadful Decrepitude.
Not long ago a Sydney man revisited a German city
which he had known before the war. When he arrived
“Troilus and Cressida” was about to be produced at
the principal theatre, and newspapers and citizens
seemed to be agreed that it was the most important
local thing happening.
The visitor was informed that “Troilus and Cres-
sida” was the eighteenth Shakspearean play which
had been presented in that German city within a
twelvemonth. He returned to Sydney, which has three
times the population, to find all the theatres then open
given over to moving pictures, although hopes were
cherished that one closed house might be booked for
a season of variety, and in another a great shaking of
mothballs portended a revival of some mouldy leg-
show. And this in the city that used to be the home
of Rignold and Brough and Boucicault!
Since the wanderer returned, the “Show Boat”
film, which is exhibited three times a day, has entered
upon its eleventh month. This suggests that Sydney
has been drama-starved and press-agented for so long
that its judgment in these matters has suffered.
Although the “Show Boat” film has one good song
and one good singer, it is in all other respects very
ordinary stuff. Moreover, the song was already fami-
liar, the singer had been heard on hundreds of gramo-
phone records broadcast countless thousands of times,
and no doubt thousands of the people who have seen
the film again and again had already seen a stage
version in Sydney and read the book —which, as a
picture of Mississippi life, is not a patch on Huckle-
berry Finn.
There has been no Shakspearean season in Sydney
since Allan Wilkie disbanded his company years and
years ago. Many of the young people who throng
the moving-picture theatres have never witnessed a
good spoken play acted by competent professionals.
If they are to be deprived of reasonable opportunities
of learning, when their minds are still plastic,
that the theatre has something more to offer
than the capers of moving shadow shapes, most of
whom talk through their noses, and few of whom
would ever have been employed on the stage if movies
and talkies had never been invented, they will be
unable to appreciate a good show when they see
one. And there is more in it than that, for a com-
munity without a living drama and the means of
spiritual refreshment which it affords is a community
marked down for definite deterioration in manners,
thought and speech.
No single person can be blamed for the ghastly
state of the Australian theatre, but if J. C. Williamson
were still here it is questionable whether he would have
submitted so tamely to the ascendancy of the talkies,
a despotism feebly tempered by the occasional resus-
citation of a leg-show. Gladly would Australians
who Jove the theatre see the Williamson co. attempt
to revive the Williamson tradition. If it won’t there
may be enough devotees of the drama left to finance
a stock company by private subscription, with assist-
ance —which might be fairly asked—from A.B.C.
The Moral Is . ..
“The progress made in factory production in N.S.W.
since the lowest point of the depression” was the
theme of an article in “S. M. Herald,” which used to
be Australia’s most fervent champion of Cobdenism.
Quoting the Minister of Works, it said there were 31
more factories in 1935-36 than in 1928-29, and 12,157
more factory employees. Since things were at bed-
rock in Mr. Lang’s time, number of factory employees,
amount of factory wages and value of factory produc-
tion had increased 50 p.c.—to 197,229, £32,297,5.34
and £175,567,711 respectively. “Remarkable Figures,”
commented the “Herald” in a headline ; and. nobody
can question it.
During the same week a Westralian “Sunday
Times” article on “the grave agricultural problem
facing the State Government” reached Sydney. The
problem is, shortly, “the bringing into profitable use
again of the 2500 abandoned State Agricultural Bank
holdings (upwards of a thousand have been leased)
on which over £4,000,000 has been advanced,” and
increase of holdings to about 3000 acres, capable of
nourishing a thousand sheep, is proposed. But the
“Times” tells a melancholy story:
The Esperance lands are in process of abandon-
ment, the Bullfinch area has been declared a total loss,
and the Miners’ Settlement has very few settlers left.
Altogether over £2,000,000 will go west as the cost of
experimenting, mostly politically, with the eastern fringes
of our wheat belt. And these losses do not take into
consideration the £4,000,000 already written off for the
south-west group settlements venture, nor the individual
losses of heartbroken settlers.
A report on the position in the rural parts of
South Australia, written about the same time but from
a different angle, may be appended without too violent
a jolt. South Australian wheat-farmers have, on the
whole, weathered drought and depression fairly well,
but particulars of many hopeless cases have appeared
in official reports. And even prosperous districts don’t
furnish much of a labor market. The S.A. corre-
spondent of the “Worker,” who stood for a country
division at the last Federal elections, reports that he
travelled “well over 300 miles through perhaps the
best farm-lands in the State” and “saw but three men
working in the fields.” Withal, “there were little
signs of activity in the towns and villages.” So he
is “forced to the conclusion that the country as a
labor-absorber is about dead.”
It is not quite so bad as that, perhaps ; but this
newspaper extract points the same moral as the others.
Australians will have to think less of the kind of
land settlement about which politicians still blither
and more about factory and workshop possibilities—
particularly in country towns and neglected ports
handy to supplies of raw materials or fuel or both.
The crazy notions that anyone who puts a swag on
his back can get work on the land and that every-
one can make good as a farmer if the Government
provides all the money will have to be abandoned
for good and all.
Health Camps.
Australian States can learn something from Maori-
land’s national campaign for children’s health camps
which Prime Minister Savage has inaugurated as a
memorial to King George V. The Labor Government
has voted £25,000 and intends subsidising, pound for
pound, all moneys received over £50,000. The objec-
tive of £lOO,OOO is aimed at before June 3.
Maoriland began its health camps just after the
war, and thousands of children from country as well
as city have benefited. For the last seven years
Maorilanders have subscribed heavily to annual
appeals, health stamps being bought freely at every
post office. Health and Education Departments also
assist, but the movement has always been the work of
direct public representatives with an advisory board
working in with the Government.
The £lOO,OOO will establish two permanent camps
in each island.
Australia, with two cities each nearly as large in
population as the whole of Maoriland, has more
intensive industrial areas where there are thousands
of children who would benefit by similar seaside and
sunshine camps ; and there are thousands more interior
Australian miles where parents who can’t afford to
do so would like to send their offspring away for
beneficial climate changes. N. S. Wales knows how
bush children thrive by spells at their Sydney centre,
and every year Victoria sees a migration of thankful
Mallee children to a camp at Frankston.
Maoriland’s health-camp example is one to
be followed.


“AND IT'S PRINTED WITH WIMBLE'S INKS”
“D.E.”: It was “shown beyond ail
reasonable doubt” that poor Sullivan,
V.C., “slipped on a prune” in Birdcage
Walk, London, and in the consequent
fall suffered a fracture of the base of
the skull and laceration of the brain.
So we are told in the cables ; but as one
who has fallen headlong on a road and
also been knocked down by a cyclist I
can’t help feeling incredulous. It hap-
pened at night, and a bicycle came into
the picture, but the cyclist and “an in-
telligent little girl.” were positive that
the V.C.—- a solid, healthy Digger who
had never been suspected of having a
glass skull —was on the ground before
the bike reached him. Their evidence
satisfied the London coroner, but it is
quite possible that they were as mis-
taken as the 600-odd N.S.W. people who
perplexed that Brisbane coroner —they
were positive that a huge Stinson aero-
plane had passed over their bailiwicks
when it was really down in the bush hun-
dreds of miles away. If London cyclists
are as reckless as their Sydney congeners
I question whether the average specimen
could give a coherent account of an acci-
dent if he were concerned in one. The
pushbike revival, though doubtless good
for trade, has added a new horror to
the roads. Telegraph-messengers are the
worst nuisances. If some day the corpse
of a telegraph-messenger is found on the
side of a road with a wheel of his im-|v
plement of destruction broken off and I
bashed down round his neck, the C.I.D.
may start straightway in pursuit of a
maddened foot-passenger with a band-
aged head and a limp. It’ll probably
be me.
* * * *
“John B.”: He was a witness for the
defence in the Quarter Sessions Court,
and was clearly doing his honest best,
but vigorous cross-examination by the
Crown Prosecutor had him hot and
bothered. The point that the C.P. was
obviously trying to make was that by
reason of relationship with the accused
the witness was neither impartial nor
reliable. “You won’t deny, will you,”
he said, “that you are related to the man
in the dock?” “Well,” admitted the wit-
ness, “I am related to him in a sort of
a way like.” “What, precisely, do you
mean by that expression?” snapped
counsel. “I mean, sir,” replied the wit-
ness, “that I’m a sort of a brother-in-
law. You see, he’s living with the
missus’s sister.”
* * * *
“C. Mac”: I’m expecting any day to
walk into a restaurant and hear the menu
blared at me through a loudspeaker.
Local broadcast outfits must by now
have been put to pretty well every other
possible use, and probably even to that
one somewhere. The State school at
Double Bay, Sydney, has its own outfit,
and shapes towards producing a great
crop of orators. From thereabout I go
to Randwick and find it hard to remem-
ber times when there was no broadcast
commentary on the running: a race run
in silence would now be like watching
an old silent movie. Then, wandering
by water round Balmain way, I hear the
Sabbath air shattered per medium of
loudspeakers attached to a church: a
gramophone record of church bells is
amplified, and So are sermon and choir-
ing, till the blare of them can be heard
a good two miles away. Next day in
Ryde I stroll into a pub late in the after-
noon and—yes, it does happen. Just
before the fatal hour, amplified to about
three dozen chucker-out power, the
broadcast voice of mine host bellows
forth: “Calling all drinkers, calling all
drinkers! No more beer to-night, gentle-
men! Time, gentlemen, please!”
* * * *
“Chadband”: 1 am in something of a
dither as to what wowser-ridden N. S.
Wales will do when the South African
footballers arrive. One of the forwards
is named Bastard, the label of an ancient
and honored West of England county
family. Some time ago a racehorse
named The Bastard was introduced to
N.S.W. He had run many times in sup-
posedly strait-laced England under that
name, and no one took any notice;
however, his moniker could not be toler-
ated here, and it was changed to The
Buzzard or Bustard or something equally
“ Tut-tut . That's the Worst of this tender meat!”
idiotic. At the same time a horse racing
in Sydney bore the name of a Greek god,
the overlord of beastly obscenity. Truly,
we are a queer mob, with our early
closing and our censorship!
* * =!= , *
“Fi. fa.”: Scotland Yard has made a
variety of Coronation preparations for
malefactors of all grades and nationali-
ties. With the co-operation of the world’s
Police Departments, they have compiled
a “Who’s Who in Crookdom,” contain-
ing thousands of photos., fingerprints
and records ; this is supplied to every
police station in the U K. and kept con-
stantly up to date. ’Yard men are
stationed at every cross-Channel port on
the lookout for anything from white-
slavers to cardsharpers. Nor will the
home-grown crook benefit from this pro-
tection against foreign competition. A
steady stream of them has been setting
in to the “cooler,” with sentences last-
ing well over the festivities, and a round-
up of unprecedented dimensions is likely
to take place a few days before the cele-
brations begin.
.** * *
“Dick Tafone”: A friend took me to
visit the Stammerers’ Club, which has
freed him of a lifelong horror. It was
in a quiet room high up in a city build-
ing. The lecturer, a doctor, sat in the
middle, the members round him in com-
fortable chairs. “I can’t cure you of
stammering,” he told them, “but I can
show you how to cure yourselves.” Ihe
lights went out, and the quiet, compelling
voice told them how calm and relaxed
they were, how their fears were going,
how control was flowing through their
nerve centres, how faith in themselves
was steadily developing, how they, and
they only, could rid themselves of speech
defect. The lights came on ; one after
another they made three-minute speeches
on all sorts of subjects. If the stammer
came, the speaker paused, calmly prac-
tised the new training, and unhurriedly
went on. It is wonderful work, with
wonderful results, begun by the last
pathetic message of a stammer-driven
suicide.
* * * *
“Hamer”: Nature can be touchy;
because of that the Lachlan Swamps,
which provided Sydney with its first
reticulated water supply, have gone
completely. Authority decided that
the chain of ponds in Centennial
Park needed cleaning, having become
foul.; the water was drained out
and the mud (and rubbish) scraped off,
with the result that water has refused
to stay in the depressions ever since.
What happened was that the non-porous
layer created through centuries was re-
moved with the mud ; water turned on
the area now sinks as if into a sponge,
leaving only a muddy memory. Grassed
lawns are to be made where the ponds
were: the history of Sydney’s first reser-
voir is closed.
* * * *
“Sixenate”: The Victorian Govern-
ment has decided that the amnesty to
criminals due to the Coronation is
to be general. First-term prisoners will
get a remission of one-sixth of their
sentences, second-term men a twelfth
and others an eighteenth. In N.S.W.
it is probable that something on the
same lines will be adopted, but there is
some question whether one class of con-
finees—the “wife-starvers”—will bene-
fit at all. They are not subject to ordi-
nary remissions, but have to work out
the full period of their debt unless it
goes beyond 12 months. Last Christmas
twoscore prisoners got the usual season-
able benefaction which let them out on
Christmas Eve, but the “wife-starvers,”
being merely sufferers for debt, had to
cut out their full time.
*
' „ T ' , •, •
Stultus : I saw two lasses and their
escorts served with two bottles of lager
one evening at an oyster bar just as
word that the cops had entered the
premises was passed along. There
seemed to be no possible chance of con-
cealing the beer, until one of the damsels
had a brainwave. Grabbing the two
bottles, after a somewhat embarrassing
display of lingerie, she secreted them
where they were ieast likely to be found,
and the cops passed on. I couldn't help
admiring the Spartan performance, for
it was a midwinter night and the beer
was fresh from the ice-chest.
* * * *
“Colonel B.”: I’m sorry that Eros, of
Piccadilly, has to be boarded up for
the Coronation to protect him from rois-
terers who desire to clothe him in un-
suitable garments. Captain Cook, near
the Admiralty Arch, is to have boards,
too, but only up to his knees. Eros has
a place in every Londoner’s heart, so
much so that 50 or more policemen are
needed to protect him from his swarm-
ing admirers on particularly festive occa-
sions. But many an Australian lad of
60 and upwards will always recall one
no longer existent Eros association —the
flower-girls who, with Gainsborough
fevvered ’ats, and tongues laden with
Rabelaisianisms, plied their trade from
the steps of his former pedestal. There
were girls of 17 and girls of 70, but they
were all bright girls. One, with the
fevvers replaced by a coronet, will view
the Coronation from inside Westminster
Abbey.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: A new one was offered to
the Orama officers between Melbourne
and Port Adelaide. The second after-
noon out a well-dressed young man in-
troduced himself at the purser’s office on
a “confidential” errand as a British
secret-service agent who could not pos-
sibly give his name —only his “official
number.” The ship, however, coldly
asked for his ticket, and when it wasn’t
forthcoming handed him over to the
Adelaide police. He told the Court:
“Saying good-bye to friends; mistake
about the sailing time ; found myself in
an awkward position ; walked the decks
all night, and reported myself next day” ;
£5 or seven days.
* * * *
“The Root”: In W.A. “Percy Pawn-
ticket” (B. 14/4/’37) could find more
than a platoon to add to his list of im-
pecunious ex-politicians. They include
a man who was once member for Perth,
an ex-Minister of the Crown who
bumped as heavily as a man could do,
and another who between spells in the
Senate toiled honorably with a shovel.
Many have gladly returned to quite lowly
positions, their homes mortgaged for
election expenses, after a brief period of
glory as “our member.” “Bob” Hastie,
Labor’s first leader, was right up against
it when he vainly sought the financial
security the Senate would have given
him.
* * * *
“C. B’st’r”: Am wondering what’s be-
hind the refusal of the British War Office
to accept offers of munitions at bare
cost from great British manufacturers of
such things. Last year Nuffield offered
what amounted to the saving of many
millions in the manufacture of aircraft
engines to any desired specification, not
only without profit to himself, but plus
the equivalent of a further huge sum
in buildings and tools. It was turned
down. Now the managing director ol
Ransomes and Napier is describing as
“pure Alice in Wonderland” the rejec-
tion of his firm’s offer to make shells
without profit. They asked only for
£30,000 worth of plant, in accordance
with the Government’s usual practice of
supplying tools, which sum would have
all come back on the first 150,000 shells.
The Secretary of State for War replied
that the offer had been refused because
his advisers considered the price too low.
The firm made 600,000 shells in the war,
AT ’EM!
“We do not think the British Government
can afford to ignore an affront to Britain or to seek
a reason for inaction because of the laying of mines
off Bilbao. Is it only above-water attack that the
Royal Navy will resent ?.... The other Powers should
be notified that.... Britain will, if necessary, take
her own action in defence of her merchant flag
against Franco’s cruiser and mines.” — “S. M. Herald.”
Up, Jack! Action front! Up, Jack, and clear
the deck!
Don’t sit around there, swilling wicked rum!
Don’t forget Drake, man, singed a royal
Spanish neck!
Don’t forget Grenville blowing ’em to King-
dom Come!
Don’t you know an insult when one is hurled
at you?
Don’t you know ships aren’t only meant to
float?
Surely here’s your chance, Jack; surely a
glaring cue!
Don’t you know Franco has only one boat?
Up, Jack, and into it! .Show the real bulldog
breed!
Kate in the kitchen is thinking you’re a cur!
And Mary in the milk-bar, ogling an awful
weed,
Says if you won’t DO, you won’t do her!
Where’s your dignity? Where’s your tradition
gone?
Have you forgotten Britannia rules the waves?
Aren’t fifty Jack Tars game to have one Carlo
on?
Why, it’s an insult to the last war’s graves!
Think, Jack, how they fought, how they went
and did their bit!
Shouldn’t you, also, be earning your dram?
Surely you know if the worst comes we’ll see
to it
Your next-of-kin pays for your In Memo-
riam!
N.S.W.
Macann.


GIVING OURSELVES AWAY.
The silly things our rude forefathers did
Are from our eyes now mercifully hid;
Their taste in fun, which seems to us so crude,
Taught them to joy in antics coarse and rude;
Baiting of innocent badgers, bulls and bears,
Horse-collar grins, taking the prize at fairs;
Cumbersome clowning, swallowing of snakes,
Torments of roasting martyrs at their stakes;
The gibbeted thief by gorging crows beset,
The howling madmen herded in their pit,
Foul jests at which the squeamish modern jibs—
These were enough to make them crack their
ribs,
Explode uproariously in vast guffaws
And strain the hinges of their aching jaws;
While we, like fools, proud of our moving
shows,
Store up those films which must one day expose
Our shallow wit, our childish love of crimes,
Buffooning stars and double-jointed mimes
To the cold judgment of posterity;
Our grandsons, gaping and aghast, will see
The sights we revelled in, the scenes we “shot.”
If we were wise we’d burn the blinking lot.
Maoriland. Arnold Wall.
* * * :p
“Nomen”: Curiously, in abbreviating
their State’s town names, Queenslanders
almost invariably adopt the last half of
the name ; N. S. Welshmen take the first
bit. In Q. Camooweal is always Th’
’Weal, Cloncurry is Th’ ’Curry, Uran-
dangie is Th’ ’Dangie, Longreach is Th’
’Reach, Charters Towers is Th’ Towers,
Muttaburra is Th’ ’Burra, and dozens of
other instances could be given. Two out-
standing exceptions are Rocky and Bris.,
for, of course, Rockhampton and Bris-
bane. But you have only to hear some-
body talking of Gil., Gul., Lis., Tenter,
and others such to know you are in the
Ma State or listening to a man who is
talking about his home country.
* * * *
“Tristram R.”: “Bacalao” reminds
me (B. 7/4/’37). I asked for Australian
wine in a cafe not two minutes from
Australia House when'l was in London
last. The waiter came to light with a
bottle of “Wombat Wine.” The name
repelled me so much that I did not
sample the contents. However, the man-
ager assured me that it was Australian
wine, and that he understood that wom-
bat was an Australian word. The bloke
who christened the stuff may have been
a humorist, but I doubt if his effort has
benefited our exporters.
* * * *
“Hamer”: Though the caravan-life
craze mentioned by “Greenhide” (B.
14/4/’37) has been getting much pub-
licity lately, not a word has been given
to Dr. Gordon Stables, who, four de-
cades ago, was an enthusiastic prophet
of this method of living. The caravan
of the kindly doctor-novelist wandered
over Britain, and at least once ventured
across to Europe ; and its occupant was
perpetually advocating the pleasures and
profits of caravaning. One of his argu-
ments was that it was life-giving. It
wasn’t in his case, for he lived to no
great age.
“Murua”: Rum was
a recognised means of
barter among the Dig-
gers in France and
Flanders. At Meteren
eight of us were bil-
leted in a deserted
estaminet, where only
the odor of beer and
vin - blanc remained.
Four of us were off
the stuff for various
reasons ; the other four
loved it, and we
swapped our nightly
rum for their weekly
tobacco issues. The
four non - Rechabites
agreed to let the buck-
shee rum accumulate,
so that by the time we
were relieved they
would have the where-
withal for a glorious
beano. The taking
down of the rum-
bottle, careful adding
of the issue just re-
ceived and replacing on
top of the kitchen shelf
became a nightly
ritual. Daily we
watched the contents
rise, till the time Fritz
opened out on the crossroads, of which
we occupied a corner. As we crouched
down in the cellar we heard a whizz-
bang lob on the roof. Only a few
fragments penetrated the thick wooden
ceiling, but under one tiny hole a
dark stain spread down the wall. After
that all rum was consumed the minute
it was issued.
“Pax”: I find it impossible to credit
that paragraph about a naval salute to
the Pope (B. 31/3/’37). On what occa-
sions would the British Navy be likely to
come in contact with his Holiness? I
have never heard of any unit of the
British Fleet cruising in the neighbor-
hood of the Vatican, nor is it likely that
H.H. will encounter the R.N. on the
high seas. The Pope, of course, as a
temporal sovereign, is entitled to a
sovereign’s salute, but such salutes are
given only when the sovereign is in the
vicinity.
“Give my compliments to the cook an tell him the food's ROTTEN.”
“Sorry, sir—they just took 'im to 'ospital with petermaine poisonin'!"
“Fluence”: I once met a “seventh
son of a seventh son” (B. 14/4/’37), and
learned that he claimed to have been
endowed from birth with mysterious
powers of healing. It was in a Northern
Rivers (N.S.W.) township, and his
alleged “gift” was apparently believed in
by his numerous clientele. His method
of treatment consisted partly in laying
on of hands and partly of doses of a
herbal mixture which he prepared from
“Anchor signal, Ponsonby — We're fair on the snapper ground now!”
his own recipe. He seemed to be thriv-
ing on the business, too, and had his
fixed itinerary for visiting the various
townships in the district.
* * * *
“Clontarf”: Touching the generous
provision of grants or annuities to Brit-
ish royalties, Australia’s old acquaint-
ance the Duke of Edinburgh, Queen Vic-
toria’s second son, fared better than
most. When he was created a duke, a
year or two before his visit to this coun-
try, an annuity of £15,000 was provided
to go with the title. In 1874, when he
married a Russian grand duchess, the
House of Commons loosened the
nation’s purse-strings to the extent of a
further £lO,OOO a year. The recipient
drew it for 20 years, a total of a cool
half-million, but it should perhaps be
remembered to his credit that he had the
grace to resign it when he renounced
his nationality, in a manner of speaking,
by becoming Grand Duke of Saxe-
Coburg-Gotha in 1894.
“T.”: If Caballero, the Spanish Popu-
lar Front leader, is really a student of
English verse, as asserted, these must
be his favorite lines:—•
I’d give my tired soul for the bucking beam-sea
roll
Of a black Bilbao tramp.
“Topping Lift”: The proposition that,
through hereditary tendencies, blue-
eyed persons of European extraction are
less liable to seasickness than dark-eyed
(B. 14/4/’37) is new to me. Nobody
would discount what the Vikings did in
the North Atlantic long before the
Middle Ages ; but the fact remains that
navigation began with the Egyptians and
Phoenicians. They didn’t stick to the
Mediterranean, either ; the first recorded
account of any considerable voyage is
that of the Phoenicians sailing right
round Africa. The mariner’s compass
is said to have been known to the
Chinese long before the Scandinavians
got the hang of it, and to have been
brought to Europe by Marco Polo, the
Venetian, in the thirteenth century.
Christopher Columbus was either a
Spaniard or a Genoese, and Prince
Henry the Navigator was also a Southern
European.
“Sailor Once”: Seasickness is no re-
specter of persons, blue-eyed or other-
wise. Admiral of the Fleet Sir Edward
Seymour, after nearly half a century in
the Navy, suffered as badly when put-
ting to sea after only a few hours in port
as did the newest “boy second-class.”
King George V. was never a good sailor,
despite much service in small destroyers,
which is generally reckoned to “knock
the nonsense” out of persistent cases. A
Sydney woman of my acquaintance who
was always down and out to bilious at-
tacks ashore dined almost alone in the
saloon on one particularly stormy trip
across the Bight, and she looked fitter
than ever she did on land. The doctor’s
“apple” does about as much good as
anything—eaten before the trip, and
defiantly munched when the “spasms”
come on. I prided myself on being a
good sailor until I was once sick in a
dinghy, much to the delight of several
non-nautical pals who were out fishing
with me.
* * * *
“Groper”: The treasure-hunter still
bobs up occasionally. A party of opti-
mists recently left Perth by motor-truck
for a spot on the west coast, 150 miles
north of Fremantle. They propose to
search for 78,600 guilders, said to have
been aboard the Dutch sailing-ship De
Vergulden Draeck, which was wrecked
south of Dongarra on April 28, 1656.
The leader of ihe expedition believes
the clue to the whereabouts of the
treasure is a circle of stones discovered
by Alfred Burt some 60 years ago in a
thicket near Woodada Well, south of the
Arrowsmith River. When the circle of
rocks is found the treasure-hunters will
try their luck with an instrument said to
be capable of locating metal of all kinds.
**■ * * *
“M.” on the new vaudeville:
Some coot told me it was wrestling, but it
turned out to be the best vaudeville night I’ve
had for years. Apart, that is, from the prelim,
boxing bouts, in one of which an list. 31b. lad
called Snowy Hart streaked out of his corner
and plastered a surprised opponent with swift,
heavy punches that ended the scrap in about 10
seconds —-and provided the fastest ring-work
Melbourne has seen for some time. Hart was
the only athletic performer to put as much
vim into his work as the dear lady—bigger and
better than Tom Lurich —who rocked the
orchestral stand with her “Music Goes Round
and Round.” The third heartiest performer
was the xylophone girl who entered the ring
and convinced a crowded stadium that any
wife, with practice, can tattoo any husband
with four clubs at the same time.
Hoots for Tom Lurich and cheers, largely
feminine, for handsome Mike McGill. The
orchestra played for him the “Wearin’ o’ the
Green,” and Mike grinned while Tom glowered
at the Irish-American’s green scanties. The
Russian’s black shorts, worn over mauve leg
confections, stumped the orchestra, which lapsed
into cowed silence.
“Lurich,” said the man-on-the-next-seat, “is
one of Melbourne’s kindest-hearted citizens.”
He didn’t look it, but I never argue in Fitz-
roy. He might be kind enough, but God knows
what he’s fed on at home. As immediate re-
taliation for the orchestral tribute, Lurich bit
a large chunk out of McGill’s shorts and spat
the result into the ring. Varied with an occa-
sional mouthful of McGill buttock, Lurich con-
tinued eating the green pants until McGill,
with a double-barred leg- and toe-hold, pinned
him for the first fall, whereupon the orchestra
played the “Wearin’ ’o the Green” to a half-
clad McGill.
Lurich promptly bit off a larger piece of
pants, and modest Mike left hurriedly for a
new pair. He charged back and sliced a strip
off the Lurich nether-wear and rubbed the
Lurich profile with a rough, insulting hand.
Lurich then held McGill in a short-arm scis-
sors for minutes; he smeared a mallee-root
hand over Mike’s dial and, when Mike followed
feminine advice and made a few ineffective bites
at the Lurich hams, the Russian grabbed him
by the eyeballs. Ref. Donnett jumped on
Lurich, and Lurich kicked ref. Donnett, Mc-
Gill escaping. Next time Lurich went to slither
out of the ring ref. Donnett kicked him in the
mouth.
Came the last round, and Lurich, hungering
for more McGill, took another mouthful. Then,
to the horror of the women, he crutch-holted
McGill, dumped him and pressed him. Draw,
said ref. Donnett. What McGill said couldn't
be heard for hoots, but I’ll bet he and Lurich
didn’t have any wounds to lick and that the
dressing-room refrain was: “There’s two Aus-
tralian ones born every minute.”
Still, it was good vaudeville . . . and if either
wants to see me I’m out.


A
20/fertfS
10/9/* 9 d
W 1874
For real quality Tobacco...
and for your throat’s sake
■smoke
CRAVENA
ARE MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS.
TH*E CORK TIPPED CIGARETTE OF THIS GE HE RATI ON
POLITICAL POINTS
Stewart, M.H.R., who was “Parliamen-
tary Under-Secretary for Unemploy-
ment” until he discovered that the job
was just one of Canberra’s bad jokes, is
to leave Parramatta and oppose Parkhill
in Warringah (“as independent U.A.P.,
of course”) “unless the Government pur-
sues a more active policy.” It will be a
great fight if Stewart doesn’t weaken.
R. R. Skeat, who succeeded A. G.
Hocking (Hocking the Kingmaker) as
chief president of the C.P. organisation
in Victoria, failed of re-election, being
defeated by G. J. Rankin, who com-
manded the 4th Light Horse in Palestine.
Skeat is against composite Ministries;
Rankin says he is no ardent advocate of
them but would let circumstances decide.
The Cocky group hostile to composite
Ministries put State Premier Dunstan
where he is, and went to the Geelong
conference hoping to pull Paterson out
of the Ministry at Canberra. Some of
it took its beating badly, and ‘'moderates”
and immoderates were bawling at each
other when the proceedings closed.
In a cablegram from the other end of
the world Vic. Premier Dunstan im-
pressed on the State Country-party con-
ference the necessity for “retaining a
vigorous, independent Country party.”
He must certainly have an eye on the
Federal seat for which the Bendigo
Harrison says he is not standing again,
but in Geelong Dunstan’s “independents”
found themselves in a minority. He paid
cable rates on an incautious word.
In the N.S.W. Railway Department’s
last calculations on the subject the Sandy
Hollow-Maryvale and Captain’s Flat-
Bungendore lines were expected to yield
together annual revenue amounting to a
whole £35,000. Cost of construction and
equipment was set down at £1,624,300,
and annual expenditure at £133,085, so
anticipated annual loss was £98,085. Mr.
Stevens is building both. He must have
vastly entertained the other Loan Coun-
cillors in Melbourne by “strongly object-
ing to the tapering down of loan expen-
diture.”
Mr. Stevens is going to Gwydir to
speak for the Ministerial candidates, and
he will bring glorious news. His Cabinet
has “approved a scheme to supply water
for the north-western areas”; cost,
£2,000,000, spread over five years. The
“scheme” is “the outcome of a repre-
sentative conference at Narrabri,” which
Mr. Stevens himself attended, and Nar-
rabri, Boggabri, Boggabilla, Moree and
other places will benefit. By a delightful
coincidence they are all in the Gwydir
electorate.
General-election voting in the Narra-
bri subdivision of Gwydir was 1388 for
Abbott (C.P.), 1311 for Collins (Lang
Labor) and 253 for Griffith (Fed. Lab.);
majority against the Ministerial candi-
date, 176. The figures will astonish Mr.
Stevens.
W. P. J. Skelton, who once topped the
Assembly poll for Newcastle, then a five-
member electorate, has recalled himself
to memory by chastising Rome for back-
ing Fascism. His rebuke was followed
in the space of a few days by the defeat
of the Belgian Fascist leader in the by-
election to which he had challenged the
Prime Minister —the loser attributed his
4-to-l licking to R.C. opposition led by
a cardinal —and by a “News-Chronicle”
assertion that Hitler will have the Ger-
man cardinals and bishops tried for high
treason unless the Pope’s encyclical
accusing the Nazis of having violated the
Concordat is withdrawn. That may be
the familiar “Cronk-News” furphy, but
the other is established and very signifi-
cant fact.
*
Newspaper magnate Murdoch was
nearly as inaccurate as some of the
foreign “news” when he said at Hobart
that newspaper criticism at which A.B.C.
has been hitting back so briskly had
been “mistaken for opposition to broad-
casting generally” Not one of the
“places that ought to know better” has
suggested that Melbourne dailies which
have been rocking it into the national
broadcasting services were referring to
the commercial stations which, as Mr.
Murdoch admitted, newspapers have
“established in a limited way.” “Limited”
is good, too.
The booby prize for April goes to the
Dean of Canterbury, who, with the “anti-
God” parties and newspapers of the cir-
cumambient globe whooping for the
Spanish “loyalists,” reports that said
“loyalists” are “determined to build a
truly Christian social order.” This fool-
ish old gentleman is the Douglas Credit
dean.
“Aggressive imperialism has three heads, Germany, Italy and Japan....Here is an
opportunity for Mr. Lyons to reveal his statesmanship and to give a useful lead to Imperial
foreign policy....by offering to reduce restrictions on foreign trade and to throw Mandated
New Guinea into the pool.” —Manifesto of Melbourne University professors.
“B-b-but s’pose it turns out an apple of discord ?”
Pursuant to its policy of saving the
country by means of loan works, the
Stevens Government is letting its pro-
tege, the Water and Sewerage Board, go
on with a plan for discharging effluent
from sewerage works into Cowan Creek,
one of the loveliest spots in N.S.W. “I
know of no other place in the world
where such an area would be converted
into a sewer,” comments Dr. Antill
Pockley, bearer of an historic Australian
name.
A sporting writer puts it this way:
American colored heavyweight Leo Kelly
and his manager are leaving for England.
The negro has been in Australia just on
two years. The manager said he and Kelly
would return as soon as American light-
heavies arrived.
Though Mrs. Freer pleads in vain, “the
negro” takes Paterson’s permission for
granted.
Federal Ministers are doing so much
bragging about the £12,000,000 they are
taising for payment of farmers’ debts
that they haven’t found time to mention
that the late Victorian wheat harvest
yielded 42,800,000 bushels, averaging
17.9. It is the highest Victorian average
for 67 years, and in the four wheat-
growing States lumped together it has
never been approached. In good agri-
culture and stock-farming salvation for
the wheatgrower lies, hot in any dubious
political plan for debiting a whole
people with a section’s debts.
That eminent biographer “Blithero,”
who wrote a panegyric on ex-King
Edward after his accession and altered
it to an attack when he abdicated, has
discovered that the present King,
“though ill, rejoined H.M.S. Colling-
wood before Jutland, and on that
ominous afternoon helped to send 84
rounds against the enemy.”
He was mentioned in dispatches for his
coolness and courage.
No one would ever presume to question
his Majesty ? s courage ; but for “cool-
ness” he is not in it with “Blithero.”
McLachlan, the Minister “for” De-
velopment, reports that the value of the
Australian gold output shot up from
£6,500,000 in 1934 to £10,123,700 in
1936.
In 1935 the Commonwealth Government
made available £500,000, to be spread over
three years, for assistance to metalliferous
mines, and production has since increased
by £2,500,000. The Government has con-
tributed materially towards it.
When they read that, the managers of
Lake View and Star, Wiluna, Great
Boulder and the rest must have nearly
died laughing.
A Paterson post-mortem on th--
marketing referendum, conducted at the
Agrarians’ conference at Geelong:
The Commonwealth has been robbed of
the power it believed it had.
This bad loser might have at least con-
descended to explain who did the “rob-
bing,” the Privy Council or the people.
Two Japanese have shattered the im-
pression, sedulously fostered in Red
Army circles, that their nation is out of
its element in the air by flying from
Tokio to London in a Japanese-built
’plane inside four days: 10,000 miles in
three days 22 hours. Had they been
sent to Canberra instead, on a goodwill
mission or something, they could have
got there easily in a Saturday-to-Monday
flight. It’s enough to make even the
editor of a flapper paper think.
It is announced that “the differences”
that separated chairman and manage-
ment of Spooner’s County Council, so-
called because it runs a Sydney electric-
light business, have been settled. While
they were raging, the parties, though in
adjoining offices, conducted their com-
munications by letter. The settlement
was followed by a published admission
that the County Council clerks drew
£5141 for overtime in 12 months: in
one case the overtime cheque was £162,
the nominal salary being £436. Con-
sumers had better start having “differ-
ences.”
Page to the electors of Gwydir:
The Country party has no pre-selection,
no machine politics. Everything is clean
and aboveboard, and it is left to the
electorate to choose the best men offering.
Splendid! Now will the doctor please
to convert his U.A.P. allies, who believe
in machine politics and have just voted
down pre-selection for the umpteenth
time on the ground that it would “wreck
the party.”
A pacifist robbed of a war in which
he would take no part resembles a vul-
ture dragged from its prey. Witness the
“Cronk-News’s” jibe at Britain’s “fear
of Franco’s few antiquated ships,” and
the Manchester “Guardian’s” inquiry
“whether the British Navy exists only
to show the white feather in Spanish
ports.” British bluejackets must long to
take the editors of these rags on a per-
sonally-conducted tour of the Bay.
Says Joe Coates, the M.L.C.:
Parliament House is insanitary, unhealthy,
white-ant-eaten and a menace to Sydney
Hospital.
Audited and found correct.
“We can get all the money we want
in America at one per cent,” said Percy
Pease when he came back from that
country after a pleasant holiday, salary
and all expenses paid; and he has been
saying it ever since to everyone who will
listen. He should really have apprised
the U.S.A. Government of his discovery.
That Government is offering 2.9 p.c.
on ten-year savings bonds, “interest
compoundable semi-annually if the bond
is held till maturity.”
The water-supply scheme which the
Stevens Government has in mind for
north-western N.S.W. provides in the
first place “for the servicing of about
930 holdings, from near Narrabri west-
erly.” The Gwydir irrigation area is to
have attention, and when Mr. Stevens
has finished addressing the Gwydir elec-
tors he is to attend “a conference on
water supply to be held shortly in the
Narrabri district.” There is a time for
everything, as the philosopher says, and
■Mr. Stevens has timed the water-supply
scheme wonderfully.
Dr. J. B. Duhig, of Queensland, re-
ports “after a tour of France, Russia
and Spain” that the “Soviet system of
government is the best the world has
ever seen.”
It is the only system under which freedom
and liberty and equality are properly
known. The only liberty the people of Aus-
tralia enjoy is to drop a piece of paper into
a box every three years.
If a Tovarisch Duhig spoke in Russia of
the Australian system in the terms ap-
plied to Sovietism, the only liberty he
would enjoy would be the liberty to
choose whether he would join the forced-
labor gang or get a bullet in the back
of the head.
There are revealing contrasts in the
cabled opinions of Premier Dunstan and
Imperial Chemical Industries chairman
McGowan on the practicability of manu-
facturing petrol from the brown coal at
Yallourn. Where Dunstan is optimistic,
the British chemist says none of his com-
pany’s money will go into such an
“uneconomic” proposition. Dunstan has
been in the news ever since the Duke of
Windsor acted as his interpreter. Per-
haps he thinks the coal-oil idea will
keep him there.
[Any election matter requiring a signature
is signed by J. E. Webb and Cecil Mann, 252
George-street North, Sydney.]


WAR-LORD’S PROGRESS.
“At Suez a guard of honor of local gendarmerie, wearing fezes, was inspected by Mr. Parkhill.”


FOR FAULTLESS
IGNITION
dtoau with HARD CARBON f
TEED
iPii
m
m
'earn
m
m
LUG
0S
K
Wi
—it spoils acceleration
Slow acceleration often means that hard
carbon is caked in your engine. Full, pow-
erful sparks instantly ignite and bum fuel
completely and retard the formation of car-
bon, Why drive a sluggish, noisy car? Keep
carbon at a minimum by installing new
Champions once every year.
Champion
Sparking
Plugs
Obtainable at all leading automotive supply dealers
MADE IN WINDSOn . CANADA
• •A N EMPI R E
PRODUCT
Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House-
holders’ Comprehensive, Workers
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
PERSONAL ITEMS
As a friendly gesture, the K.P.M.
(Royal Dutch Airways) has offered to
fly an Australian V.C. from Batavia to
London in time for the Coronation to
take the place of Sullivan, V.C., who
was accidentally killed. G. J. (“Snowy”)
Howell, who got his decoration for
“most conspicuous bravery” at Bulle-
court in 1917, will go if army head-
quarters endorses the nomination.
Howell was for a time on The Bulle-
tin’s advertising staff. Another Aus-
tralian V.C., Capt. F. H. McNamara, is
at present in England on exchange duty
with the Royal Air Force ; he got his
V.C. for heroically rescuing a brother-
officer of the Flying Corps, also in 1917.
Queenslander W. L. Payne, chairman
of the N.T. Investigation Committee,
which commenced it's inquiry last week,
was taken from the Assistant Under-
W. L. PAYNE, Chairman N.T.
Commission.
Secretaryship for Lands in the sugar
State in 1924 to preside over the Prickly
Pear Land Commission, since when he
has had charge of practically every
lands problem in Queensland, from
rabbits and dingoes to the purchase of
estates for closer settlement. In 1927 he
presided over the Land Advisory Board
which reshaped the land administration
in the North. Educated at Brisbane
Grammar he was called to the Bar in
1917, and looked after the Crowns in-
terest in the Land Court for five years.
Admiral Lionel Elalsey, who was in
Australia with the Duke of Windsor
when he was Edward P., has been
made chairman of the National
Sporting Club, London, reorgan-
ised as a £40,000 company to pro-
mote bigger and better boxing.
The Marquess of Queensberry
maintains a long family con-
nection with the game by
going with him as one of the
board.
Vic.’s C.P. defeated R. R.
Skeat for the presidency and put
Brig.-Gen. G. J. Rankin in his
place by a vote of 387 to 305.
Rankin, 50 on May 1, is a Light Horse-
man who commanded the 4th A.L.H.
and got a D.S.O. with bar. He is a
Rochester (Vic.) farmer.
Six thousand miles is a long way to
go for dinner, but Hubert Wilkins, Aus-
tralian-born polar explorer, flew from
London to New York to attend an Ex-
plorers’ Club feast in honor of Rear-
Admiral Bird and planned to return by
air next day. Wilkins, born at Mount
Bryan East (S.A.) on October 31, 1888,
navigated the Kangaroo flight (Eng.-
Aus.) in 1919, spent nearly five years
exploring the Antarctic, and was the first
man to fly over the North Pole. Bird
was born in Virginia six days earlier
than Wilkins.
When the Aus. naval squadron arrived
at Auckland, Lawrence Joseph Taylor,
of Kohimarama, introduced himself as
the first recruit to enter the Australian
Navy, claiming to have been signed on
when the Challenger arrived at Fremantle
in 1904. He was then a railway porter.
He got his discharge and transferred to
the Reserve in 1909. In 1914 he was
called up and saw it through.
Dr. E. Henty Smalpage, of Sydney,
whose claims to have successfully treated
certain cases of cancer by means of a
European preparation, have been re-
ferred to the Cancer Research Com-
mittee at Sydney Uni., is a descendant
of Thomas Henty, father of the Aus-
tralian pioneer family of that name.
Thomas, born in 1775, was
one of the six English
farmers who bought merinos
from the only flock then in
England, owned by Farmer
George 111., who got the
original stock as a present
from the Queen of Spain. It
was the sale of his stock to
breeders in the colonies, in-
cluding his friend John
Street, of Bathurst, Mac-
arthur, Lawson and Cox,
that led him to come with
his sons to Australia and
settle at Launceston. Four of the
sons were the founders of Portland and
pastoral pioneers of western Victoria.
J. W. Fletcher, member of the N.T.
Investigation Committee, is a product of
Sydney Grammar School. After six years
in a Sydney mercantile office, he went to
the Philippines for his firm. On his return
he became associated with various meat
companies in Queensland, including the
Gladstone meatworks, of which he was
J. W. FLETCHER, N.T. Commissioner.
g.m. Parliament claimed him for one
term in 1920, but in recent years he has
devoted himself to grazing interests —
Bonus Downs, Authoringa, and property
in the Gulf Country. A generation ago
he played cricket for the Northern State.
Henry J. Kelliher came out strong in
supporting the banking policy of the
Maoriland Labor party in his monthly
journal, the “New Zealand Mirror,
since when the Cabinet put him on the
board of the Bank of N.Z., in which in-
stitution the State has the appointment
of four directors. In Auckland Kelliher
is managing director of a brewery, and
is also in a big way in the hotel trade.
He recently published New Zealand at
the Crossroads (now in its second edi-
tion). This prosperous businessman, suc-
cessful financier, unorthodox banker
and outspoken writer is entirely devoid of
political ambition.
Chairman of directors of Stratton and
Sons, flourmillers, of Cootamundra
(N.S.W.), Alexander Sutherland, pictured
here by Frith, is also chairman of the
N.S.W. Flourmillers’ Assoc, and flour-
Advertisement for Oatmeal.
millers’ representative on the council of
the Sydney Chamber of Commerce. As
might be guessed from his name, he hails
from the north of Scotland —Caithness—
where he says he was reared on “oatmeal
and the Shorter Catechism.” Born in
1880 he came to Australia as a youngster,
and before he was out of his teens was
working in the grain trade in Melbourne.
In 1908 he moved to Sydney and took up
flourmilling and the making of oatmeal.
He played Australian Rules football with
various Melbourne clubs, lacrosse for
N.S'.W. against Queensland and in inter-
state carnivals, did some long-distance
running with the Victorian A.A.A. and
was pretty handy with the gloves.
“Dhual”: The paragraph referring to
the poor treatment of Maj.-Gen. Charles
Rosenthal, who has retired
from the command of the 2nd
Division, A.M.F. (B. 7/4/’37),
is to the point. “Rosie” said
at a recent gathering that he
had letters from the late King
of England (George V.), the
late King of Belgium, and the
late President of France, but
never a line of thanks from the
Australian Government. He started as
a gunner at Geelong; with him were
Monash and Hobbs. His son is now
District Naval Officer at Adelaide (S.A.).
H. Anning, of Wetherby, Richmond
(N.Q.), nominates the family of “Bill”
Sergeant, of Stapleton (N.T.), as provid-
ing “the greatest story of pioneering this
country can furnish”:
Sergeant took up a grazing lease of nearly
3000 square miles 90 miles south of Darwin
about 30 years ago. Eleven daughters and three
sons were brought up there, and to-day the
property, worked solely by Sergeant and his
daughters —the sons having jobs in Darwin —
produces every need of the family. The girls
grow tobacco, cotton (from which they make
their own cloth), maize, vegetables, fruit and
peanuts; they raise cattle, pigs and poultry, and
make butter which they supply to Darwin.
They break in their own horses and do their
own killing. They work a tinmine on the
property with the skill of experienced miners.
They are expert weather prophets. Some of
them have never seen a train and can only
imagine what an ocean is like. They have no
wish to leave Stapleton, which to them is a
world in itself. It looks as if the Sergeants
could show new Administrator Abbott how to
settle the Territory.
George Ainsworth’s career as geri. sec.,
Queensland U.A.P., was terminated when
he resigned the other day to stand as a
non-party candidate for the Greater
Brisbane elections; he did not believe
in the mixing of party politics and muni-
cipal affairs. Antarctic explorer, meteor-
ologist and good all-rounder in athletics,
G.F. was one of the Commonwealth’s
leading intelligence men during the war,
since which he was for a time in the
Prime Minister’s office. The U.A.P. ap-
pointed him its organising head last year.
Former Brisbane “Courier” editor
Edmund J. T. Barton, one of the best-
known figures in Queensland journalistic
circles 30 years ago, has passed out at
82. He started life selling newspapers,
then became an apprentice compositor
with the Brisbane Newspaper Co. before
he transferred to the literary staff.
He was responsible for the
“Courier’s” Parliamentary reports
in the days when seven to nine
columns for a day’s issue was usual.
When Brunsdon Fletcher resigned
to become “S.M.H.” editor, Barton
succeeded him in the chair. He
resigned in 1906, but stayed in jour-
nalism to the end, .editing, among
other publications, the “Queensland
Sugar Journal.”
“Exdig”: “Fighting Mac,” officially
Commissioner W. McKenzie, has given
up Salvarmy control in Eastern Australia
to go back to China. He was there a
decade ago, and spread the Army gospel
well into the interior, though this did not
prevent him being shot at by bandits.
Mac was an inspiring figure on Gallipoli,
where he won his nickname. His parting
shot was to declare that the Devil was
very busy in Sydney.
Arthur Rickard, founder of Sydney’s
Million Club, changed to Millions Club
" MILLIONS ”
when the population made it necessary,
has completed his 25th year as president.
Arthur, who has subdivided more sub-
urbs than any other real estate man in
N.S.W., was born of Cornish parents in
the Hume country at Lake George.


pji * ;* ;
\l
IpS. ' '
i '
. n,
i
r_
*'
■
*8
5 1
=
r-
• • •••:. " '•:
pitp*
M
< ■:'
\v\ ■
1 *1
X
mm
■
rmwim
j , I 'M J
*‘ ' :
- .... : ' -
•. ' '■ ■
■l« yy, :l
• .
J
■(
■
'S',.. 1 ;, |
Ms
8
;¥?a j
wP#T f ,< \
W"'& y a -•/ , r \
■ • '■"■ : 'V:|
WiMi
...
‘Mummy says—
What about your Wolfe’s Schnapps?
9 99
AROMATIC SCHIEDAM
SCH NAPPS
“As good for Women as for Men 99
1 wrnmm
-> SB! H
gjfiippiii


BEENLEIGH RUM MINE TINK IT BEST
“Hanko”: Weeding on an outback
length I came upon a wild daisy flour-
ishing between the sleepers; sentiment
took me, and I dug it out and replanted
it in a fruit-tin. At midday I placed the
plant in the shade of a straggly boree
where we lunched. The ganger, a hard-
bitten “buck” of the old school, eyed it
with evident distaste. “Strike me,” he
snorted, “youse la-di-das will be bringin’
yer knittin’ on ter th’ job next! ” But
each day the tinned daisy journeyed with
us, formed the decor at our alfresco
meals, and returned at “blow-up” to its
niche in the toolhouse. Then one day
we purposely forgot it. Before starting
out the ganger glanced as usual over the
medley of tools in the tray of the trike.
“Hey,” he bawled, “where’s our blanky
posy?”
* * * '*•
“Old-timer”: After trying a variety of
them I am satisfied that that distinctive
Australian burden the swag is the best of
all carryalls for the man who, from choice
or otherwise, tramps the roads. Arrived
at camp, you simply loosen the straps,
unroll the swag and everything lies before
you. On departure, you lay everything on
your blankets, turn the edges in, roil,
fasten straps and are ready for the track
in a few minutes. With all other carryalls
things have to be fished out one. by one,
and replaced in the same way. Your ex-
pert Matilda-waltzer can carry a bigger
load than anyone relying on any other
form of container, and with less fatigue.
ij; Hr *
“H.D.1.”: Why all the fuss about the
use of cemeteries as grazing-grounds for
sheep? In England many churchyards
are actually auctioned for the purpose,
usually on the annual Feast Day or kin-
dred occasion. The successful bidder
is more often than not the local butcher.
In one Kentish village I have heard as
much as £lO offered for the three acres
or so, the usual number of sheep turned
in being about 30. That particular
churchyard had been used as a burial-
ground since Norman times, and, as may
be imagined, the feed was of exceptional
quality. I never heard a word about
desecration ; indeed, the locals regarded
the letting as the most natural thing in
the world.
* * * *
“Atrax”: Thousands of soberly-clad
birds, now gleaning a living along Aus-
tralian beaches and estuaries, will this
month set off on a longer trip than any
Coronation-bound politician. They will
make it, too, by their own exertions,
and without any farewell speeches. Some
are bound for the furthest north of Asia
and Europe, some for the Arctic Circle,
some for Siberia, there to change their
close-fiitting brown suits for a wedding
garb of gay colors, dashing neckruffs and
ornate headgear. A few are already on
the way ; faint shadows of them streamed
across the Easter moon, shrill twittering
flight-calls seeped from aloft through
the soft breathing of a sleeping sea. Now
that the sou’-easter has reared up, they
will use its fuss and furies to speed the
main bodies on their long journey. About
October they will reappear, demure and
russet-clad as now.
* * * *
“Eureka”: On the bank of the Lach-
lan River (N.S.W.) 1 saw the world's
laziest fisherman. Certainly he baited
the hooks, but he hadn’t the energy to
throw the lines out. Instead, he made
his dog swim out with them, shouting
“Drop it” when the dog had gone far
enough. The ends of the lines were
fastened to stakes in his tent, and small
bells attached told him when he had a
bite. When I last saw him he was train-
ing the dog to pull the fish in after they
had hooked themselves.
* * * *
“Kooragai”: A word to artists who
draw a menacing snake with its mouth
open. In a pretty wide experience I
have always seen an angry serpent flatten
its head and dart its tongue in and out
rapidly, never opening the jaws, except
in the very instant of biting. Even the
goanna keeps its mouth shut. The stump
lizard presents a wide, yellow gape, the
frill-neck displays rows of needle-sharp
teeth and the blue-tongue opens up to
show its wedge-shaped blue tongue —the
most beautiful thing possessed by any
reptile. The shingle-back occasionally
“I'm afraid it's the end of poor Gilley — he's going up for the third time”
yawns when worried, and the water-
dragon lets you see where the beetles go
if you are smart enough to get him in a
corner. But w.d.’s mouth-play is just
bluff ; Joe Blake never indulges in bluff.
When he is up against it there is always
a grim set about his lips.
* * * *
“Old-timer”: The pleasant fiction
that nomads of the back country plant
vegetable gardens in chosen spots on
their routes pays the whalers a com-
pliment they hardly deserve. All of
them, living and dead, that I have known
were as feckless and improvident as the
abo. that preceded them. Those veg.
patches do exist—mostly tomato, melon
and pumpkin—in deep bends on south-
western rivers, but it was the flood of
1917 that planted the first of them, when
the waters swept through Chinese and
Spanish gardens along the Murray,
’Bidgee and tributaries, and carried
plants, seeds and fruits away to deposit
them in far places rich in leaf-mould and
rotted wood, where they took hold and
flourished. On Tapalin, for three years
after that flood, we got more tomatoes
and melons from the big bend than we
could eat. Successive minor floods, birds
and other agencies carried on the gooo
work, though only the hardier veges.
have survived, and they are poor speci-
mens compared with cultivated varieties.
:;< * * *
“Tid’apa”: Although there might be
dozens of suitable nesting sites about,
the kookaburra often prefers to dig one
out for himself. His favorite address is
in a termites’ nest, those huge bulblike
excrescences frequently seen on bush
timber, and his job is no easy one. From
a near-by branch Jacky flies swiftly at
the nest and smacks hard at the selected
spot with his powerful bill. Continuous
blows make an impression, and after a
couple of days’ solid work, during which
time the boss sits on a near-by limb and
chuckles encouragement to her mate,
Jacky has hollowed out a cavity big
enough for the lady’s domestic duties.
* * ! : : *
“N.J.G.”: Travelling years ago in the
N.T., I pitched camp close to some
blacks, about 150 miles south of the Daly
River, and there witnessed a corroboree
—or, as it seemed, a mob of howling
maniacs dancing to the rhythmical ac-
companiment of clapping hands and
moaning voices. The gins chanted a tune
that was vaguely familiar, but I couldn’t
place it until recently, when I listened
to the 4QG children’s choir at Mullum-
bimby (N.S.W.). Now I’m wondering
where those gins learned the “Gloria in
Excelsis Deo.”
* * * *
“Tamornie”: However they do it, it
is beyond question that animals can
sense fear in a human being. On Austral
Downs, Centralia, we were coming over
with a mob of Brunette Downs bullocks,
and en route my mate picked up cheap
a fine brown horse carrying the Wan-
ganella brand. The neddy, behaving like
a lamb, turned out to be the best we
had. A fortnight later a traveller pulled
up for a drink of tea. The horse was
near the camp, and before departing
our visitor remarked: “It’s good to see
the devil turning out so well. We used
to call him Pirate. There wasn’t a man
on the place could sit him more than
three bucks.” Next morning my mate
went out on Pirate and returned half an
hour later on foot. We never saw horse,
saddle or bridle again. His rider admitted
to having had the wind up over what
the traveller had said, but' how did the
neddy know that?
* * Jjc *
“Ehoa”: Watching a geyser in action
at Rotorua, spectators were surprised to
see a tortoise ejected, there being no
indigenous tortoises in M.L. It turned out
to be one of several owned by a near-by
resident and imported from Australia,
and it was well and truly boiled. Had
the owner of the geyser the true trading
instinct he might have made a fortune
selling turtle soup.
* * * *
“Notaden”: A feature of April nights
is the Zodiacal Light, a tall, irregularly-
conical glow, sloping a little from the
horizon where the sun has set, or where
it is about to rise. A clear sky, with
no moon or city glare, is necessary to see
it plainly. In New England (N.S.W.) and
on the Darling Downs (Q.) it sometimes
extends in a vast faint arch to the oppo-
site horizon. Astronomers ascribe it to
light reflected from dust particles around
the sun. It is visible to the naked eye
only when the ecliptic stands highest
above the horizon —haze obscures it at
other times.
a o a a
“Col. B.”: That episode of the snake-
poisoned finger (B. 31/3/’37) which
killed its original owner weeks after it
had been chopped off is only half told.
When it blew up, some fragments fell
into the near-by nest of a high-minded
hen engaged in bringing up a surreptitious
family because she
wished to save her kind
owner from the depre-
dations of the Income
Tax Department. He,
a former Professor of
Toxicology in Russia,
realised the possibili-
ties of the situation
after psycho-analysing
the hen. Injecting the
chicks with appropriate
anti-explosives to en-
sure a, properly-delayed
action, he reared them
to amazing plumpness,
and sent them, under
the Australian Christ-
mas Gift Scheme, to all
the leading members of
the O.G.P.U. Every
prominent official of
that gross instrument
of misgovernment blew
up on New Year’s Eve,
scattering destruction
over half Russia, and
so shaking Stalin’s
nerve that he missed
six former comrades
in succession during
next day’s pogrom.
* *
“Ar Gee”: Ware the
awful vengeance of the
rabbit. My mate and
I were prospecting near
the old Sofala (N.S.W.)
diggings a few years
ago. To vary our diet
we were in the habit
of setting a couple of
rabbit-traps. One day
1 found a well-fed doe
in one of the traps
and, crouched beside
her, a male rabbit,
doubtless her mate,
who viewed my ap-
proach with a look of
malevolence such as I
never hope to see
again. That same night
I was awakened by a
sharp pain in my
throat, and lashed out
blindly at yes, the
same vengeful bunny!
Four times in as many days he attempted
to kill me. Then one morning I found him
in a trap, dead. He was big but juicy,
and a welcome addition to our menu
that night. An hour later my mate and
I were showing unmistakable signs of
snakebite. A glance at the rabbit s pelt,
on which we found two small punctures,
confirmed our suspicions. That rabbit
had deliberately allowed a snake to bite
him, and then just as deliberately had
walked into the trap, knowing the fate
that would await us. Did we die? Oi
course we did.
* * * *
“Sliprail Mick”: The country store-
keeper was boasting of the cricketers,
runners and so on that the town had pro-
duced. “Any Rhodes scholars?” queried
the fed-up city cove sarcastically. The
storekeeper looked blank for a moment,
then, with a “ ’Arf a mo,” vanished into
the back regions, to reappear lugging an
outsize in Dobbin’s neckwear. Ain t
got th’ brand y’ mentioned, but this is
as good,” he said triumphantly.
NIGHT ON THE KIPPILAW ROAD.
Down the shadowed hillsides and across the
hollows
Slants the purple glimmer of the twilight
fading slow;
Dusk has turned to darkness and a young moon
follows,
Lying on the mountain like a golden bow.
Night upon the long road, night upon the dale,
Wollondilly singing as it sweeps the willowed
vale;
Lights in lonely homesteads wake and faintly
glow, , , .
Poplars hedge an orchard in a guardian row.
Close along the river where the black swans
muster
Runs the road from ICippilaw through the
starry dark,
By wide misting meadows where the dead trees
cluster,
Gaunt, fantastic spectres, looming white and
stark.
Lowing on the dim slopes where the cattle
stray,
Wollondilly rippling as it winds a silver way,
Birds stir in the tree-crests with a sleepy croon,
And a distant watchdog bays the sinking moon.
On and on by dark fields curves the crooked
highway,
Up the breezy hillside, down the scented vale,
From a piny hollow veers a sudden by-way,
Black as path of evil in some strange old
tale.
Whisper of the she-oaks like a gentle rain,
Bleating of the tired sheep yarded on the
plain,
Rush of weir-pent waters, rustle of the wheat,
And ... the sudden lamp-glow of a city street.
N.S.W.
TROY.


“C.K.”: Old Mackinby Bill was noted
for the flock of goats attached to his
outfit. “Y’ orter go in fer sheep,”
advised one of the mob. “Wouldn’t ’ave
the crimson cows on me mind,” retorted
Bill. “Goats can’t be beat. I’ll back
one o’ my young wether goats agin any
woolly blankard fer scran. ’Sides, there
ain’t no better tack fer kids than goat’s
milk. Look at that big bloke o’ mine
over there—nine more of ’em like ’im
raired on goat’s milk. And cattle pups —
blime, they don’t throw no fits if y’
give ’em goat’s milk. I ’ad a team uv
14 goats wot could shift 30 ’undred
easy” “Hey, one of ’em’s just shift-
in’ the back of yer ole cabbage-tree ’at! ”
interjected someone. Mackinby’s lan-
guage was sulphurous. “Paid Wong Lee
three quid fer that ’at!” he howled ; “an’
now one uv them useless stinkin’ cows
er goats gits away wit’ more cash than
the ’ole blanky lot uv ’em’s worth.”
$ * *
“C.J.T.”: The toughest cove I ever
met was on the Gympie (Q.) goldfields
years ago. He was cutting cordwood —
the tough stuff rejected by the cutters
who had been through that bit of timber
many times before. Waltzing Matilda
into his camp at dinner-time, I found
him gnawing a hunk of eaglehawk.
“Whaffor?” I inquired, indicating half
a dozen fowls in a netting run. “There’s
no sustenance in hen-meat,” he grunted.
“Keep ’em to fetch the eagles.” No
doubt about it, the old breed is degen-
erating.
* * * *
“Curate’s Egg”: Certain fish that
frequent the pools at artesian-bore
mouths in s.-w. Queensland must be first
cousins to the salamander, for they swim
about with ease when the water is near
boiling-point. How they get into the
pools is a mystery; they appear some
few hours after the pressure is released,
as if they had come from the very bowels
of the earth. They are a race apart
from all other western fresh-water fish,
and seem adapted specially to the
mineral-laden water in which they live.
I have tried them in rain water at the
temperature of their natural element,
and they all gave up the ghost. Simi-
larly other fresh-water fish when tried
in the bore water succumbed after a
few moments.
* * * *
“Questo”: Not all cockies are as nig-
gardly with employees as “Hanko’s”
(B. 24/3/’37). In one instance that I
know of a city lad started working for a
cow cocky when 15 years old. Twelve
years of hard toil, good tucker and fair
wages followed, with two weeks’ holiday
yearly on full pay. When the lad drew
a fine block in a land ballot his ex-
employer presented him with a dozen
heifers—“one for every year’s hard toil,
my boy, and good luck to you.” Those
few head formed the nucleus of what is
now a flourishing herd.
* * * *
“Stralia”: Never heard of “Man-
durah’s” method of removing a hook that
has become accidentally embedded in
an angler’s flesh (B 17/3/’37). The way
we always do it is to push the barb right
through and then snip it and the point
off ; the hook can then easily be with-
drawn.
* * *
“Centre”: Thoroughly good cobbers,
a white Angora doe and a Persian cat—
also female —have shared the run of the
back garden, sheds, etc., for the past two
years, during which time neither has
raised a family. The doe littered first,
and the cat promptly made a meal of
the lot. This apparently gave her an
appetite for that sort of diet, for when
her own set of quints, arrived she pol-
ished them off too. She’s kept the game
up ever since, seemingly without creat-
ing any ill-feeling on the part of the doe.
The cat’s last lot of kittens were de-
posited in the doe’s favorite possie, on
a heap of old sacks in a corner of the
shed, where I saw them a few minutes
after their arrival. A few hours later
they’d gone the way of their earlier
brothers and sisters.
* * * *
“Dirk Hartog”: If “Lower Tops’l”
(B. 31/3/’37) is accurate in his account
of Shark Bay pearling, things have
changed a bit since my time. Just after
the war I held a half-interest in a Bay
pearling show with a Perth Digger. So
far from collecting oysters merely for
the pearls they might contain, we used
to receive up to £6O a ton for shell,
small as it was. Nor were all the pearls
low-priced seeds. Ten- and 12-grainers,
of good color, shape and lustre, used to
come out of the dredge with sufficient
frequency to justify one of us taking a
trip south every few months; several
of these pearls sold to Melbourne dealers
at prices around £lO per grain. And
there was always a good, though not
spectacular, market for seeds in Singa-
pore, where they were in demand by
Chinese. Even quite shapeless stones
and baroque could be sold in Paris,
where they were used in cosmetic manu-
facture. But it’s true enough that Shark
Bay holds out no inducement for any-
one with visions of spending a profit-
able holiday among the oysters. Reason
is that all the worth-while pearling banks
“Last cup o' lea you'll fetch me for months? ’Oo says so?"
“Two coppers on the doorstep !”
are held on leases from the State
Fisheries Departments —and poachers
are likely to be rather warmly welcomed.
* * * *
“Eureka”: Is there anything in the
bush stronger than a lawyer vine? A
teamster on the Tweed River (N.S.W.)
broke his log-hauling chain. Substitution
of a lawyer vine saved him a wasted
half-day.
* :S $ *
“Nor’-west”: If “C.B.’s” gigantic
Swede was clothed when he wrestled with
the 18ft. carpet-snake (B. 3/ 3 / ’37), I
doubt if he would have fared so well
with a big Kimberley rock python. Ban-
tered regarding his boasted wrestling
abilities, Buttan Singh offered to take
a 20-footer on. Stripped to a loin-cloth
and greased all over except hands and
feet, he gripped the python deftly behind
the head when it was thrown to him.
He allowed it to wind the coils around
him, but the grease and its inability to
obtain any tail purchase prevented its
constricting. Playing until the serpent
got too disgusted to fight any longer,
Buttan kicked it oft and shoved it into
a chaffbag. He declared that it was no
feat; that back in India he had often
wrestled in the same way with the savage
python of the Himalayas.
* * * *
“First Blue”: Identification of brown
and stubble quail on the wing isn’t any-
where near as difficult as “Hanko”
alleges (B. 7/4/’37). Vic. Fisheries and
Game Department officials whom I
questioned said that, though they’d in-
spected many quail-shooters’ bags, they’d
never met a sportsman yet who claimed
to have mistaken these two breeds on
the wing. Apart from differences in
coloration and size and in speed of fly-
ing, the two species rarely inhabit the
same locality. The brown quail likes
country with plenty of wattle-trees or
rushes, river bends being one of its
favorite haunts. The stubble variety, as
its name implies, prefers the open stubble
paddocks.
* * * *
“Stralia”: Those unorthodox methods
of catching perch recently mentioned
may be all right for- grassing a feed, but
for quantity give me a spear and a hurri-
cane lamp. I’ve skewered dozens in
places where even local anglers never
knew they existed. The best I’ve ever
done was 150 in two hours. Having
waded waist-deep in the murky wetness
just beyond the reeds, spearing the fish
is child’s play to anyone after a few
minutes’ practice. Perhaps it’s super-
fluous to add that the assault is carried
out at night.
* * * *
“Kauri”: A Maoriland clergyman, in-
specting a large whisky distillery when
on a visit to Ireland, noticed that the.
timber of the great vats had a familiar
look. It was M.L. kauri, a timber which,
after long testing with a variety of
woods, the distillery had chosen as the
most suitable for producing a brew with
a super flavor.
* * * *
“W.”: Walking in long grass I have
often innocently planted a No. 9 boot
firmly on the soft body of a frog. In-
stantaneous death? Not a bit of it!
A muffled protest, a leisurely hop to
a safer position, and the age-old reverie
resumed. Digging with a garden fork,
1 have turned these fellows up, jabbing
the sharp prongs within a fraction of an
inch of their bulging sides, but have
never yet harpooned one. Once, after
milking. I poured some hot—almost boil-
ing—water from a kettle into the bucket,
and was later surprised to see a hefty
frog swimming happily round the new
aquarium. The water was thrown out
at once, and the intruder hopped away,
apparently unscathed. Are the darned
things charmed?
* * ■'.<
“Baldy”: Myall has all that “Boree”
(B. 24/3/’37) claims for it—sweet scent,
rich color and beauty—but it is as hard
as nails. That’s why it carves so well,
and one reason why it isn’t used for
furniture. Bull-oak has the same dis-
advantages of hardness and smallness of
piece, but it's color scheme is more daring
—red streaks on a light background, with
plenty of highlights. It makes up into
ornaments that leave the hackneyed
mulga nowhere. But my choice in these
smaller timbers is needlewood. which
polishes to a golden-red color, with many
darker flecks across its grain, and with
bands of light and dark running along
the grain, which change as it is turned
overflike a “fiddle-back.” Easy to work,
100. It comes from a white-flowering
shrub, the hakea, which is allied to the
silky oak. This larger cousin supplies
the furniture of the Melbourne Public
Library
* * *
“P.H.-S.”: That well the bricking of
which puzzled “W.J.W.” (B. 17/3/’37)
was done from the top downwards in
this way: A metal or reinforced con-
Crete circle is put down and a few rows
of bricks are laid on it. As the earth
is taken away from inside the circle the
support and bricks are allowed to sink
gradually until the top bricks are level
with the ground surface, when a few
more rows are laid, and so on until the
required depth is reached. As the bricks
are specially shaped and no cement is
used, it does not matter if the circular
support gets slightly oft' the horizontal.
* * * *
“Pamac”: If “F.Y.7” (B. 10/3/’37) or
any of his friends want boots for their
dogs, they need only write to any
saddler in n.-w. Q. Boots for tykes are
constantly in demand up there as pro-
tection against burr or thorns which
infest the downs country after a good
season. Most of the stations have a
pattern to which they cut the footwear
out of soft bag leather. The dogs soon
realise the value of these boots to them,
and don’t fail to give the station-hand
a reminder if he forgets to put them on.
!j: * Jj: *
“Mulgo”: The cattle-drafting at
Sydney Show doesn’t give the cityite
much idea of the work on the big runs
outback. There a half-wild mob of a
couple of thousand head is rounded up
on an open camp ; while most of the
stockmen hold them there, two or three
on special camp-horses draft out the
beasts that are wanted for yard or road,
and a couple of men (sometimes gins)
gather these and hold them a little dis-
tance away. Many of the camp-horses
can do their job without reins. I know
stockman who one day yarded three
brumbies on the Diamantina. While he
was boiling his quartpot they broke out,
and his own mount, an old camp-horse,
pulled away and raced after them. The
sto ckman thought the lot had gone bush,
but j n a f ew minutes the saddled moke
turned his wild brothers and “alone and
unassisted” put them back in the yard,
* * * *
“Eureka”: Nobody who earns a crust
h , d w raise a , 0 an
® f
I^>lS en °? S L fe °
country between Nevertire and the Bogan
River (N.S.W.) recently. There, immedi-
ately the grasshoppers appeared, hun-
dreds of ibis appeared also and cleaned
the pests up. By the celerity with which
they arrived you’d have sworn they
answered a wireless call,
* * * *
“Wang”: Dave had written home to
Dad and Mum from his dairy farm, 30
mi i es away> that his wife had presented
them with their first grandson. So, later,
Dad and Mum journeyed across to see
new arrival> He was a fine? hefty
■ c , , , ,
lnfant ’ and " atter Dad had awkwardly
nursed him for a minute or two M m
r-!° n ,, im h in . ■ 'l 1 ~.. b
Dad cried Look at th little
mi e . Keeps grabbin my finger openm
an shuttin h,s little hand on ,t. Yarn
said Dad > sho * s he s a born mdker-
’
Lower Tops 1: In a horseyaid near
Naracoorte (S.A.), I was startled when
a brolga suddenly deserted a mob flying
overhead, landed at my feet and began
pecking good-humoredly at my buttons,
Inquiry disclosed that the bird was
reared on Magappa station, near by, and
that he now calls at passing homesteads
for handouts.
METAMORPHOSIS.
“The Milch Goat Society scouts the notion that
the goat should be considered a smelly animal that
subsists on garbage and jam—tins. It will live
happily on gumleaves and native shrubs in a back-
yard; 2s. 6d. worth of oats will keep one for a
week.”
Lactiferous quadruped, hard-kneed and bony,
To erstwhile calumny condemned perforce,
It’s good to see some reckon you as “tony,”
Without the slightest trace of being coarse.
And, if you know, it might be gratifying
To feel you’re headed for the realms of grace,
Whither for ages you’ve been dumbly trying
To earn your rightful place.
You’ve answered—though with not complete
conviction —
The charge of being odoriferous;
You’ve scattered, anyhow, the clumsy fiction
That tins and hoardings form the nucleus
Of your extensive diet. One good feature,
We’re very pleased to note, is that you share
A taste for gumleaves with that genial creature
Our little native bear.
Too long you’ve been the synonym for folly,
A butt for all, bewhiskered, one to chew
With equal zest a bucket or a brolly,
A length of rubber or a tin of glue.
A new respectability you’re wearing,
And doubtless it will fit you well, old scout;
But. still, when I give my best suit an airing,
I’ll see you’re not about!
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


ADAMS’ (TAITERSALL’S) HOTEL,
259 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 484 GEORGE STREET.
Rooms, 6/- and 8/- per day; Ureal;fast. Table d’Hote or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms. Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
five: public dining rooms.
Bunch from 12 noon (Sunday, 12.45 p.m.), Din ner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday, 5.45 p.m.).
Tables or Seats may be reserved by ’Phone. M 4601.
Who Is Your Trustee?
Does he possess the knowledge and experience which the acceptance of that office
demands ?
Permanent Trustee Co.
OF N.S.W., LTD
Incorporated 1888 to act as Executors and Trustees.
This Company offers unexcelled trust service, combining security and experience
with efficient administration.
Write for explanatory Booklet, sent free, 0:1 request
0. E. FRIEND
CECIL H. DOYLE
J. W. BARNES, Manager.
Directors'.
F. N. YARWOOD
(Chiiirman)
SIR THOMAS BUCKLAND
W. G. HULL
E. V. T. WHITTLE, Asst. Mgr.
23-25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
AUCTION SALE OF
GOLD MINING LEASES
Under order of the Supreme Court of Queensland.
Nos. 108 and 158 Parish of Morinish.
Area 20 acres, situated at Hunter’s Gully, 30 miles from Rockhampton, by
good accessible road.
SATURDAY —MAY 29, 1937.
AT 11 A.M. AT THE ROOM OF THE AUCTIONEERS, EAST STREET, ROCKHAMPTON
This Property has been worked by a syndicate of 4 known as the Goldenlead
Syn., and is now worked under the direction of the Local Deputy Public Curator,
with good results. Full particulars on application, and inspection mvitea.
K. M. GRANT (R'ton) PTY.. LTD.
W. J. ROBINSON Auctioneer, Rockhampton, Queensland.
The WILDCAT
COLUMN
Australian Iron and Steel, Ltd.
, Dividends ,
Pref. To Re- Re-
Nov., Profit. 74 p.e. Ord. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1928. .182,090 26,791 Nil 155,299 171,011
1929. .215,040 73,714 5 p.c. =91,675* 49,651 220,662
1930.. 76,430 75,000 Nil 1,430 222,092
1931.. 18,071 Nil Nil 18,071 240,163
1932.. 2,203 Nil Nil 2,203 242,366
1933.. 70,359 Nil Nil 70,359 312,725
1934. .120,774 37,500 Nil 83,274 395,999
1935.. 80,009 65,143 Nil 14,866 410,865
Loss on sale shares Southern Blue
Metal, £43,500 367,365
Patents disclosed, £57,651 .. .. 309,714
Lass.
1936.. 29,734 58,125 Nil 221,855
♦Declared but not paid.
Circumstances were unkind to start with.
The co. took over Hoskins’s Lithgow
works at a lot less than their book value
about nine years ago. The plant was
transferred to Fort Kembla, N.S.W.
South Coast, and large additions were
made thereto. Among the attractions
were a wider range of products and
prospects of lower costs. But while
in the midst of heavy capital ex-
penditure on plant extensions, etc.,
trade collapsed, surplus earnings and
more besides were needed in the
business, and payments to the prefs.
(still 34 years in arrears) fell be-
hind. The ords. have not yet had any-
thing ; the 5 p.c. div. declared in 1929
has not been paid.
The £3,700,007 of capital is in
1,000,000 74 p.c. cum. prefs. (subject to
a 224 p.c. cut under the N. S. Wales
Interest Reduction Act) and 2,700,007
erds. The public took up the prefs., and
most of the ords. were originally held
by the Hoskins family, Howard Smith,
Ltd., and Dorman, Long and Co. To-
ward the end of 1935, however, B.H.
Prop, acquired all the ords., and with
them control, in exchange for 750,000
of its own shares. Expanding demand
was then beginning to tax the big works
at Newcastle almost to capacity. So
a complete overhaul of the Kembla plant
was immediately put in hand ; following
the sale of the galvanised-iron sec-
tion to Lysaghts, a further open-
hearth furnace has been erected, in-
creasing the co.’s capacity to turn
out steel ingots, and the new battery of
coke-ovens, which is meant to have
a very beneficial effect upon the cost of
producing pig-iron and steel, is expected
to come into production about the end
of the current year. After that the p.
and 1. account can be expected to tell
a different story, provided nothing very
unexpected happens.
Early in the last term industrial trouble
interrupted both production and new
construction for over two months ; and
when heavy plant has been shut down
it takes some time to get into full swing
again. Mainly because of this and the
consequent contraction in turnover and
heavy increase in unit costs, the year’s
operations resulted in a loss of £29,734,
compared with a profit of £80,009 for
the previous term. That was after strik-
ing off £83,501 for depreciation and set-
ting aside whatever was considered
necessary for bad debts and taxation. In
addition there was a loss of £43,500 on
the sale of shares in Southern Blue Metal
Quarries, which had been a disappoint-
ment from the start. Together with the
pref. div., this reduced the lay-by to
£221,855 in excess of intangibles
(£57,651), now disclosed.
The prefs. received a full year’s div.
at the reduced statutory rate of 5.8 p.c.,
and another half-year’s div. has been
handed out since the close of accounts,
leaving approximately 4s. per share
(£203,437) still to come. At 275., when
the arrears are paid off the shares
would show 5 p.c. on a 5.8 p.c. div.
basis. The outlook is not yet suffi-
ciently clear to say when the par-
ticipating rights are likely to be worth
anything. An all-round 74 p.c. div.
would call for £277,500. The cover
is £3 18s. sd. in net tangibles, all fixed
assets, worth what they can earn.
Balance-sheet figures compare as fol-
lows :
1928. 1935. 1936.
Paid capital .. £2,741,037 £3,700,007 £3,700,007
Sundry creditors 475,215 649,937* 1,433,651*
Fixed assets .. 2,277,672 3,794,371 4,218,214
Shares in other cos. 242, ylB 391,809 0b0,U48
Stocks . . .. 494,361 269,009 407,976
Book debts . . 351,617 317,722 353,639
Investments, cash, etc. 21,695 16,692 16,700
* Includes ord. div. ( £91,675) declared but not paid.
To meet a net outlay of £423,843 on
fixed assets, add £138,967 to stocks and
£35,917 to debtors’ balances, as well as
cover payments to the prefs. and the
year’s loss on trading and sale of shares,
the board went outside for an extra
£783,714, part of which may have been
provided by B.H. Prop. Leaving shares
in other cos. (down only £3761) out of
the reckoning, outside liabilities ex-
ceeded more or less liquids by £655,336
when the books closed, an increase of
£608,822 over the twelvemonth.
Australian Mutual Fire Insurance
To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
275,415
1926.. 33,904 20 p.c. = 24,000 9,904 285,319
1927.. 34,965 20 „ „ 24,000 10,965 296,284
1928.. 28,570 20 „ „ 24,000 4,570 300,854
1929.. 32,158 25 „ „ 30,000 2,158 303,012
1930.. 26,053 25 „ „ 30,000 299,065
1931.. 32,659 22.9„ „ 27,500 5,-159 304,224
1932.. 38,364 25 ~ ~ 30,000 8,364 312,588
1933.. 31,737 25 „ ~ 30,000 1,737 314,325
1934.. 36,069 25 ~ „ 30,000 6,069 320,394
Freehold sold; added reserves, £41,873.. 362,267
1935.. 40,034 27.1 p.c. = 32,500 7,534 369,801
1936.. 35,804 25 „ „ 30,000 5,804 375,605
The preceding year’s underwriting
showed remarkably good results ; though
the surplus from this source in 1936 was
excellent at £19,254, equal to 16 p.c.
on capital, it was £4BOO short of the
1935 exhibit. Increased claims all round,
but mainly in the Fire and Accident
departments, were entirely responsible
for the recession.
Income from investments again be-
came the chief source of profit. The
total was £470 higher at £19,450; relevant
taxes (£2900) were £lOO lighter. All
taxes have been charged to underwriting
in these calculations. The gross interest
return represented 16.2 p.c. on capital.
Profit from all sources was thus £35,804
—down £4230, but a pleasant 29.8 p.c.
on capital, as against 33.3, 30, 26.4, 32
and 27.2 p.c. back to 1931. The div.,
which had gone up to 27.1 p.c. in the
preceding term, was brought back to
25 p.c., a rate which has been averaged
now for eight years.
The co. carefully selects its risks, which
means that it has the expense of gather-
ing many more premiums than it even-
tually takes credit for. Notwithstanding
a larger business gathered last term, the
expense ratio was the lowest since 1928:
Loss. Expense.
Premiums. Claims. Expenses. Rate. Rate.
1900. ..£33,888 £8,131 £13,765 24.0 p.c. 40.7 p.c.
1910.. 41,845 9,890 18,748 23.6 „ 44.8
1915.. 60,538 24,518 28,498 40.5 „ 47.1 „
1919.. 73,861 20,941 33,886 28.3 „ 45.9 „
1927.. 114,440 46,007 56,288 40.2 „ 49.2 „
1929.. 117,143 48,143 59,869 41.1 „ 51.1 „
1930.. 106,336 40,165 67,986 37.8 „ 63.9 „
1931.. 98,886 30,312 63,018 30.9 „ 64.3 „
1932.. 95,965 29,441 49,941 30.7 „ 52.0 „
1933.. 94,292 32,835 52,255 34.8 „ 55.4 ~
1934.. 99,759 32,149 54,339 32.2 „ 54.4 „
1935.. 100,140 26,316 52,770 26.2 ~ 52.6 ~
1936.. 104,668 35,834 52,480 34.1 „ 50.1 „
Net premium income was £4528 better ;
losses took £9518 more; all exes, of the
co. were £290 lighter.
Because it has reserves equal to over
three times paid capital—actually £3 2s.
7d. a share —the co. has accumulated a
fine pile of investments. In the 1935
term it sold its King-street, Sydney,
freehold at a disclosed profit of £41,873.
This is how the transaction showed up in
balance-sheet figures:
1926. 1934. 1935. 1936.
Paid capital. . £120,000 £ 120,000£120,000 £120,000
Liabilities .. 15,089 21,305 16,432 15,312
Freeholds .. 142,771 142,771 6,771 6,771
Mortgages . . 45,990 32,148 173,746 167,637
Investments . . 157,545 169,487 242,881 234,673
Cash . . . . 82,663 137,985 106,723 122,835
Debtors . . 15,440 9,308 8,613 9,001
Last term a net £6109 was paid to the
co. off mortgages owing to it, but the
sum was not reinvested. Government
securities (£210,670) remained un-
changed, and the co. took the oppor-
tunity of high prices prevailing to re-
duce debentures and shares in other cos.
(now £11,003) by £B2OB. As a result, the
cash holding (£122,835) lifted £16,112.
At balance-day policy-holders could
see net tangibles of as high quality as
they could wish for equal to 472 p.c.
of the year’s net premiums. Usually
150 p.c. is regarded as adequate.
Wunderlich Ltd.
, Dividends N
Net Pref. To Re- Re-
Feb., Profit.* 7 p.c. Ordinary. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1927.. 64,143 5600 14 p.c. = 43,400 15,143 103,184
1928.. 69,553 5600 14 „ „ 56,925 7,028 110,212
Added to goodwill, £5186 .. ..105,026
1929.. 71,358 5600 14 p.c. = 60,350 5,408 110,434
] 930.. 56,955 5600 Hi „ „ 49,500 1,855 112,289
1931.. 14,542 5600 5 „ „ 22,000 99,231
From specific reserves, £16,227.. ..115,458
6.6 p.c.
1932.. 11,409 5232 5 p.c. = 22,000 99,635
From specific reserves, £10,051.. .. 109,686
Additions to plant, etc., £9917.. .. 99,769
5.9 p.c.
19.33.. 15,725 4714 5 p.c. = 22,000 88,780
Written off Vic. tile factory, £19,750.. 69,030
Premiums on new shares, £3748 .. 72,778
From specific reserves, £1503 .. .. 74,281
5.4 p.c. & 7 p.c.
1934.. 22,446 8140 5 p.c. = 22,000 66,587
Written off buildings and machinery,
£33,076 33,511
1935.. 28,355 10,363 4 p.c. = 17,600 392 33,903
Written off plant and buildings, Deficit.
£38,361.. .. .. .. .. 4,458
Reserves.
1936.. 40,738 10,363 4 p.c. = 17,600 12,775 8,317
6 p.c. & 7 p.c.
1937.. 57,563 10,669 6 „ „ 26,400 20,494 28,811
♦After deducting bonuses to' stall.
The co., whose business is spread
throughout the Commonwealth and
Maoriland, turns out tiles, architectural
terra-cotta, shop-fronts, showcases and
other building materials and embellish-
ments. Earnings thus depend upon con-
ditions in the building trade, which
explains the sharp contraction of profits
from £71,358 in 1929 to £11,409 in 1932,
and the steady expansion of the figures
since. For the decade to the close of
accounts in 1930 the ords. averaged 12
p.c., while £107,369 of staff-partnership
certificates was issued and paid for out
of earnings and £36,454 was distributed
in divs. thereon. For the next four years
the ord. div. was kept at 5 p.c., though
it called, together with pref. payments,
for £27,564 more than aggregate net
profits over the same period. The dif-
ference and £BO2l besides were provided
by transfers from specific reserves no
longer required for the purpose for
which they had been created.
As activity in the building trade
livened, earnings improved ; but money
was wanted in the business to finance
expanding turnover, so the div. was
lowered to 4 p.c. in ’35, and remained
there for the following term. Meanwhile,
£BO,OOO of new 7 p.c. pref. money was
gathered, mainly to finance erection of
new works on a fresh clay site at Ver-
mont (Vic.) and to discharge a mortgage
on the co.’s Perth property. Also, during
the four years to the close of accounts
in 1936, reserves were drawn upon for
£101,104 to bring the book value of
premises, plant, etc., more into line with
earning capacity.
With the new capital at work, and
readjustments to altered conditions com-
plete, the co. reaped more benefit
from its expanding turnover last
year. Activity in the building and
ancillary trades continued to rise, and
the new factory at Brisbane for the
manufacture of durabestos got into full
swing. After allowing for taxation and
striking off £27,794 for depreciation the
board figured net earnings £16,825 better
than the previous year’s at £57,563.
Capital account is made up of 40,000
first, a like number of second and 80,000
third prefs., all carrying a cumulative
7 p.c., and 440,000 ords. The firsts and
seconds on the co.’s Sydney register are
subject to a 224 p.c. cut under the N. S.
Wales Interest Reduction Act, with the
right to advance from 5.4 p.c. to their
original contract rate with the ords. The
£57,563 netted last year was sufficient to
pay the full contract rates on all prefs.
and show over 10 p.c. on ord. capital.
Actually the ord. div. was lifted from
4 p.c. to 6 p.c., and the firsts and seconds
on the co.’s N. S. Wales register were
brought into line ; those on the Victorian
register are not subject to the N. S. Wales
Act, an anomaly that shrieks for adjust-
ment ; the thirds were issued after the
Act came into force and are not subject
to its provisions. The £20,494 of the
year’s profit that remained lifted reserves
£28,811 in excess of goodwill (£73,888),
not treated as an asset herein.
The financial position improved:
Paid capital: 1920. 1933. 1936. 1937.
Shareholders’ £379,666 £520,000 £600,000 £600,000
Employees’ . 14,040 39,700 34,500 33,900
Liabilities .. 38,244 111,919 132,135 104,556
Freeholds . . 151,559 380,142 360,696 363,063
Leaseholds . . 9,659 801 940 832
Plant, etc. . . 108,926 242,990 202,002 200,974
Stocks . . 136,396 109,490 145,526 140,588
Book debts . . 64,342 33,901 72,459 77,920
Cash, etc. .. 16,598 6,436 7,314 2,819
A reduction of £27,579 in outside liabili-
ties was accompanied by a growth of
£5467 in debtors’ balances and a con-
traction of £4495 in cash and of £4938
in stocks. The year’s improvement in the
more or less liquid surplus (£116,777)
was £23,613. The net growth in the book
value of fixed assets was only £1231,
despite erection and equipment of the
Brisbane factory.
The firsts at 225. 6d. and the seconds
at 225. return 5.3 p.c. and 5.4 p.c. respec-
tively on a 6 p.c. div. basis. The thirds
at 235. 6d. yield 5.9 p.c. on a 7 p.c. dis-
tribution ; the ords. at 245. show a
5 p.c. return on the basis of last year’s
div. The net tangible cover is £l5 14s.
sd. firsts, £l4 14s. sd. seconds, £6 17s. 2d.
thirds and 21s. 3d. ords.
Permewan, Wright, Ltd. (Melb.)
To Re- Re-
Jan., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1927 . . 22,165 122 p.c. = 13,802 8363 85,575
Premiums on' shares, £6250.. .. 91,825
1928 .. 24,693 12J p.c. = 17,578 7115 98,940
1929 .. 19,732 122 „ „ 19,531 201 99,141
1930 .. 17,949 10 „ „ 15,625 2324 101,465
Loss.
1931 . . 2,735 4 „ „ 6,250 92,480
Reserved for bad debts, £5OOO ~ 87,480
To staff fund, £9lB .. .. 86,562
1932 .. 1,870 Nil 84,692
Written off, £3285 .. .. .. 81,407
Inner reserves disclosed, £366 .-. 81,773
1933 . . 366 Nil - 81,407
To staff fund, £B3l .. .. .. 80,576
Written off, £9000.. .. .. 71,576
Profit.
1934 .. 6.097 4- p.c. = 5,000 1097 72,673
To staff fund, £843 .. .. 71,830
1935 . . 9,053 b p.c. = 6,250 2803 74,633
To staff fund, £933 .. .. 73,700
1936 . . 13,542 6 p.c. - 7,500 6042 79,742
To staff fund, £9Bl .. •• 78,761
1937 .. 18,064 8 p.c. = 10,000 8064 86,825
Earnings from this carrying, station-
supply, produce and agency business in
the back-country of Vic. and N. S. Wales
have been up and down with seasons and
prices. Still, for the 11 years to the close
of accounts in 1930 divs. averaged 11.4
p.c., though share premiums took a little
of the gilt off the gingerbread. The next
three years were the worst experienced
since pastoral and agricultural incomes
were withered by the big drought early
in this century, and shareholders were
passed by for the last two of them. How-
ever, stocks and debtors’ balances were
worked down, the amount coming to
outsiders was reduced and cash accumu-
lated. The board was thus able to return
ss. per share (£31,250) in 1933. Divs.
began to flow again in the following
year, and the business and earnings have
since continued to expand rapidly.
During the last term the co. took over
the businesses of Daniel and Andrews at
Sale and Melbourne, F. Drevermann and
Co., Bairnsdale, and G. Miethke, Wil-
laura, all- in Vic., raising the number of
branches to 37 —21 in Vic. and 16 in
N. S. Wales—as against 29 in 1933-
Owing partly to the absorptions just re-
ferred to, and partly to improved con-
ditions in the country districts, the spring


Incorporated
in England
&
&
1 835
by Royal Charter
in 1835,
27k liability oj the Members is limited.
TRAVELLERS
C H E QUES
When you go abroad, carry your money in a safe
convenient form by using Bank of Australasia
Travellers’ Cheques. These may be purchased
through any of the numerous Branches of the Bank
throughout Australia and New Zealand, and are
negotiable wherever you go ... . Issued in amounts
of £2, £5 and £1 0.
«
Travellers’ Cheques in Italian Tourist Lire are,also
available at special concession rates to travellers
visiting Italy or Italian possessions.
The Bank of
Australasia
sl'
m
Sr «>
US _
iwa »
&i
atW
■ *&
B**
,? *
SUPER
SVIP tR
pin?
ETHYL
COLOURED RED
H
IT'S PLUS A LITTLE SOME-
THING OTHERS HAVEN'T GOT!
C77/12/SP
ł
THE BANK OF ADELAIDE
SEVENTY-FIRST ANNUAL REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS TO THE
SHAREHOLDERS.
The Directors have pleasure in submitting herewith for the information of Shareholders
the Balance Sheet of the Bank as on the 29th March, 1937, and Statements of Profit and Loss
and the Reserve Fund on the same date.
The Balance of Profit and Loss for the year ended 29th March, 1937
(including the balance brought forward from the previous year,
£36,970/8/6), amounts to £98,307 7 0
Out of which an Interim Dividend at the rate of 4 per cent, per
annum was paid in November last .. .. .. .. 25,000 0 0
Leaving available .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. £73,307 7 0
Out of which the Directors have recommended a Dividend for the half year
ended 29th March, 1937, at the rate of -5 per cent, per annum, payable
after the General Meeting on 28th April, 1937 .. .. .. .. 31,250 0 0
Leaving a balance to carry forward of .. .. .. .. .. £42,057 7 0
The Ordinary General Meeting will be held at the Registered Office of the Company,
81 King William Street, Adelaide, on Wednesday, 28th April, 1937, at 12 o'clock noon, at
which the Shareholders will be called upon to elect one Director in place of Hon. Edward
Wheewall Holden, B.Sc., M.I.E. (Aust.), M.L.C., who retires in accordance with the Articles of
Association, but is eligible for re-election, and offers himself accordingly.
Since the last General Annual Meeting in May, 1936, we regret the death of our Colleague,
the late Mr. C. R. J. Glover, who had served the Bank faithfully as a Director since September,
1927.
The Directors desire to place on record their appreciation of the valuable services rendered
to the Bank by the late Mr. C. R. J. Glover.
Pursuant to the Articles of Association, the Board on the 10th November last year appointed
Mr. William Steele a Director in place of the late Mr. C. R. J. Glover.
The Shareholders will be asked to appoint two Auditors for the ensuing year and to fix
their remuneration.
HOWARD W. LLOYD, Chairman of Directors.
W. J. MASSON, General Manager.
W. E. WELBOURN, Secretary.
THE BANK OF ADELAIDE.
BALANCE SHEET AS AT 29th MARCH, 1937.
£9,703,987 4 8
Contingent Liabilities, consisting of Letters of
Credit, etc., £426,372/11/2.
ASSETS.
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT
From 30th March, 1936, to 29th March, 1937.
To Dividend in
May, 1936 . . £26,000 0 0
„ Dividend i n
November, 1936 26,000 0 0
£50,000 0 0
„ Balance 29th March, 1937 .. 73,307 .7 0
£123,307 7 0
By Balance, 30th March, 1936 .. £61,970 8 6
~ Net Profit, including Recoveries,
and after making provision for
Bad and Doubtful Debts,
Interest accrued on Fixed
Deposits, and Rebate on Bills
Discounted and deducting Ex-
penses at Head Office and 68
Branches, including S’alaries,
Rents; and Directors’ Fees,
£2600 61,336 18 6
£123,307 7 0
RESERVE FUND.
To Balance at this date .. .. £1,000,000 0 0
(Used partly in business and
partly in Government and
approved securities.)
£1,000,000 0 0
W. J. MASSON, General Manager.
W. E. WELBOURN, Secretary.
By Balance 30th March, 1936 ..£1,000,000 0 0
£1,000,000 0 0
HOWARD W. LLOYD 1
E. W. HOLDEN S
Directors.
AUDITORS’ CERTIFICATE
We certify that in our opinion the above Balance Sheet is properly drawn up and exhibits a true
and correct view of the state of The Bank of Adelaide’s affairs on 29th March, 1937, according to the
best of our information and the explanations given to us, and as shown by the Books of the Bank
submitted.
We have obtained all information and explanations required by us.
We have counted the Cash and examined the Bills and Government and other Securities of the
Bank on hand at the Head Office. The Assets and Liabilities at the Branches, other than London, have
been taken on the Certificates of the Managers and Accountants of the respective Branches, and those
of the London Branch as cabled by the London Manager.
Adelaide, 7th April, 1937.
G . R. ANN ELLS,
KENNETH W. NEILL,
Chartered Accountants (Aust.)
Auditors.
I, WILLIAM JOHN MASSON, General Manager of The Bank of Adelaide, DO SOLEMNLY AND
SINCERELY DECLARE—
That the Reserve Fund and accumulated profits are used partly in the business and partly in
Government and approved securities.
That the accompanying statement and balance sheet of the Bank is, to the best of my knowledge
and, belief, true in every particular.
That the names, addresses and occupations of persons who are the Directors of the Bank at the
date of this statement are:—
SIR HOWARD WATSON LLOYD (Chairman), College Town, Accountant.
HON. EDWARD WHEEWALL HOLDEN, B.Sc., M.I.E. (Aust,), M.L.C., Kent Town, Manufacturer.
ALFRED ALLEN SIMPSON, C.M.G., C.8.E., Burnside, Manufacturer.
ALBERT EDWIN HAMILTON, M.8.E., Adelaide, Accountant.
WILLIAM STEELE, Millswood, Company Director.
AND I make this solemn declaration conscientiously believing the same to be true and by virtue of the
provisions of the Oaths Act, 1936. MASSON
DECLARED at Adelaide, in the State of South Australia, this eighth day of April, 1937, before me—
C. W. NIMMO,
A Justice of the Peace in and for the State of South Australia.
WE, HOWARD W. LLOYD and EDWARD W. HOLDEN, of College Town and Kent Town respectively,
being Directors of The Bank of Adelaide, DO HEREBY CERTIFY that in our opinion the above Balance
Sheet is true and correct, and is drawn up so as to exhibit a true and correct view of the state of the
Company's affairs.
DATED at Adelaide this eighth day of April, 1937.
! \amon \w
l aAcrii ‘av aavwoH
Directors.
in the year’s gross earnings (£110,812)
was £21,123. Exes. (£92,738) took
£16,591 of the increase, leaving net earn-
ings £4522 better at £18,064, or 14.4 p.c.
on capital as against 10.8, 7.2 and 4.8
p.c. for the three preceding terms. That
includes £1663 sent to the insurance
fund (£30,000) as genuine profit. The
div. was lifted from 6 p.c. to 8 p.c.
Expansion of the business is further
reflected in this comparison of balance-
sheet figures:—
1920. 1934. 1935. 1936. 1937.
£ £ £ £ £
Paid capital 50,000 125,000 125,000 125,000 125,000
Liabilities .. 79,212 38,025 63,515 80,267 174,315*
Plant a n d
property .. 47,193 66,093 75,953 79,714 97,798
Book debts 90,583 103,646 114,279 119,886 175,442
Merchandise 32,883 58,490 64,832 71,499 102,400
Shares other
cos. . . 6,900 6,900 11,899 11,899
Cash, etc... 5,834 6,528 7,547 9,840 10,133
* Includes £23,508 share and premium money held
in suspense.
To meet the addition of £18,084 to the
book value of property and plant,
£55,556 to debtors’ balances and £30,901
to merchandise, the co. went outside for
an extra £70,540, raising the amount
coming to sundry creditors to £150,807,
which more or less liquids exceeded by
£137,168.
Shortly before the close of accounts
50,000 new £1 stares were offered at
245. each, one for five, and £23,508 of
the money had been received at the end
of January, leaving £36,492 to come.
The £23,508, not due until Feb. 2, was
held in suspense and shown with liabili-
ties in the sheet. When all the money is
in, reserves will benefit by £lO,OOO of
share premiums, and paid capital will
be £175,000, on which last year’s profit
was equal to 10.3 p.c.
At 345. 3d. (265. a year ago) the pound
shares return 4.8 p.c. on an 8 p.c. div.
basis, with prospects. Including the new
issue, the cover is 31s. in net tangibles.
{“Wild Cat” continued on next page.)


A SURE F MEND IN UNCERTAIN TIMES
"You get him to
SEETHE A.M.P."
HER husband, she told her father, was not assured.
They had no savings. She had never thought
about what might happen to her if he were to
die.
“You get him to see the A.M.P.,’’ her father said.
“Get him to do it straight away. Get him to take out an
A.M.P. policy for at least £5OO. He can do it for a
few shillings a week. A policy of £l,OOO would be
better still. With that done you won’t have a worry in
the world.’’
“Get him to see the A.M.P.” That is sound advice. The
A.M.P. is the largest Mutual Life office in the Empire. On
an average one family in every two in Australia and New
Zealand is protected in some measure through the A.M.P.
The Society has £106,000,000 of assets, and is as strong as
the nation itself. Last year it issued new policies totalling
£27,000,000! The A.M.P. grows from strength to strength
because it serves a great human need: it makes the family
secure.
The Society will be glad to send an experienced adviser
to discuss this “great human need” with any couple. A word
to the nearest A.M.P. office will bring him. Write or ’phone
to-day.
AMP. SOCIETY
The Largest Mutual Life Office in the Empire.
C t A. ELLIOTT. F.1.A.,
Actuary.
A. W. SNEDDON. F.I.A,
General Manager.
C. M. MARTIN,
Secretary and Chief Inspector.
D. E. WALKER,
Manager for New South Wales.
HEAD OFFICE: 87 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Branch Offices at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth and
Hobart.
District Offices throughout all States.
New Zealand Branch Office: Customhouse Quay, Wellington.
Public Notice.
FORESTRY BONDS—Those wishing to sell
N.Z. Perpetual Forests Ltd. Investments
will get highest prices by communication with
G.P.O. BOX 1765 (Melbourne).
If you have ores for sale write:—
NORMAN HILL & CO., LTD.,
Cathcart House., Sydney.
Buyers: Gold ores and concentrates, Silver Lead
ores, Molybdenite, Scheelite, Wolfram, Tin ores,
etc., etc.
PATENTS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents. Advt.
DAVIES & COLLI SON, Patent Attorneys 483
Collins Street. Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.).— Advt.
* * * *
AUSTRALASIAN Cmberlands and plantation
valuation surveys, milling plans, certification of
shipments. L. MACINTOSH ELLIS, B.Sc. (late
Director State Forest Service, New Zealand), Consult-
ing Forest Engineer, 8 Bond Street, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric ami Hydraulic Lifts.
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament 18S8),
hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Colonial Mutual Life
Building, 14 Martin Place, Sydney. Advt.
* * * *
ALUMINOFERRIC is one of the most effective
preparations known to science for P urlf y ing , _ q " d
clarifying water stored in dams, reservoirs, tank.
etc. For further particulars, write to William
Adams & Company, Ltd., 175 Clarence street,
Sydney.— Advt.
Schute, Bell, Badgery and Lumby, Ltd.
After 18 years in the wool, hide and
skin business in Sydney, Schute, Bell and
Co. has linked up with Keith Badgery
and Lumby, Ltd., formed in 1933, whose
principal interest is stock-selling. A new
co., Schute, Bell, Badgery, Lumby, Ltd.,
has been registered with a nominal capi-
tal of £150,000 in £1 shares. Of these,
30,750 go to the older concern and 10,100
to Badgery and Lumby. A public issue
of 44,150 shares, which was under-
... ’ • 1 t * 1 cd
written, was quickly taken. E. R.
Moser, R. P. Ruwald, J. W. Walker,
K P Rnrlcrprv anrl W Ci T limhv com-
. “- jDaageiy and W. Cj. Lumby com
prise the new co. s first board. In view
of the season’s big wool cheque, broking
cos.’ scrip has been popular lately.
r ... :
Commonwealth Loan
A month earlier than usual, the Loan
Council comes on the market next Tues-
day for its half-yearly borrowing opera-
tion. The amount asked for is
£7,500,000, the same as in last Novem-
ber ; the return, including redemption, is
slightly lower at £3 19s. Id. per cent.
The Consols market has been more stable
recently, and in any case the term of the
current issue is shorter, and therefore
more attractive under present conditions.
Details of new loans offered since 1932
are as follows: —
Term, issue interest, Return,
Date. Amount. Years. Price, p.c. p c.*
|/xi/;g *|.000,000 10 Par si
ie/n/>33 10,316,000 io £99 3* £3/12/5
5/6/’34 12,234,000 14 £9B/io/- 3± £3 /7/|
20/n/’34 15,042,000 14 £99/15/- 3 £3/o/o
® 6 ;/ 86 * 12 ; 500 ;ooo i 4 £99/10/- si £3/8/5
26/n/’35 7,500,000 14 £99/15/- 3i £3/15/5
2/6/’36 9,000,000 15 £9B/10/- 3i £3/17/6
2 6/n/’36 7,500,000 15 £97/io/- 3| £3/19/4
27/4/’37 7,500,000 11 £99/5/- £3/19/1
‘including redemption.
The Noy m 6 issue is now being more
favorably’ received by the market than
c ,u nr „ a nn „i, t
WIC .? r , S °r ' ~ • d fu e
in i trend of wo p > ‘
1 ( lore favorable Australian ban ing p -
l* oll anc * stat 9 oveiseas trade, ave
checked the upward rise in interest rates
for the time being.
Metals, Commodities and Shares
Grain and metals fell again last week-
end, and Australian ’Changes opened
on Monday with a touch of the shakes,
Mt. Lyell and Barrier cos. being marked
down heavily. B.H. Props, also weak-
ened in both issues. The importance of
its Barrier interests have been greatly
exaggerated in the marking-down of this
stock during the past month. As for
labor troubles in associated industries—
well, the past has shown that these dis-
turbances always come to an end.
A report did come from Oil Search’s
office last week. On the co.’s New
Guinea property “definite indications
have been found of a large anticlinal area
associated with oil seepages and oil-
impregnated rocks and gas.” Managing-
director Griffin and geologist Dale
Condit “have arrived in London on the
co.’s business.” Caution is officially
advised pending receipt of further infor-
mation from the field. The stock mean-
time remains heaven’s gift to share-
brokers during a dull period. Over
27,500 shares changed hands in Sydney
last week. Of the new issue of 181,000
at par (55.) recently put out, 58,925
were taken by interests in Johannesburg.
There are now 1,135,433 shares out, on
which the market put a price of Bs. each
on Monday. It will be a good thing for
Australia if gusher oil is struck in British
New Guinea, but those putting money
into Oil Search scrip at present should
regard the proposition as a spec., even
if it looks a promising one.
* * * *
Amalgamated Gold Estates, N.L., is to
take over Magnet silver-lead mine, four
miles from Mount Bischoff (Tas.), on
May 1, and proposes forming a co. with
nominal capital of £50,000 in 200,000
shares of ss. each. In the past 38 years
the Magnet produced, it is claimed,
£3,000,000 worth of ore, values stated
to be 98oz. silver and 60 p.c. lead to the
ton. For some time since the Magnet Co.
stopped work the Tasmanian Government
has had control of the mine, and £35,000
worth of stuff has been taken out.
According to C. L. H. James, mining
engineer, who made an examination for
the present buyer, 19,000 tons of high-
grade ore is available for the mill, which
for years had required reconditioning.
In milling 34 p.c. of silver and 49 p.c.
of lead were lost. It is proposed to instal
a flotation plant.
* * :> *
Zeehan (Tas.) field is once again receiv-
ing attention. Following its discovery by a
Government prospecting party, a show is
being opened up by Montana Western
Extended, N.L., which is preparing for
the installation of necessary machinery.
A small parcel of three tons silver-lead
ore realised £67 (average £22 7s. a ton).
At the old workings of the Ponpatitic
tinmine, operated 50 years ago in the
Heemskirk boom days, four distinct
lodes have been found on the surface,
in addition to other discoveries, which
are reckoned to be highly payable.
Other tin and galena shows are also
being opened up.
* * * *
Berjuntai Tin Dredging, nominal capi-
tal £200,000 (stg.) in ss. shares, hands the
two vendors of the property (Tanah Biji
and London Tin Corp.) 120,000 fully-
paids each, and offers 440,000 shares at
par for cash. London Tin will take up
220,000, and the remainder are offered to
Tanah Biji shareholders as at April 6, 44
for every 20. Of 1075 acres, the prop-
erty has been bored to show 120,994,000
c.y. averaging 0.471 b. per yard, or 25,387
tons tin ore gross. On condition that a
dredge with a capacity of 3,600,000 c.y.
annually is installed, an assessment of
14,400 piculs has been granted. Produc-
ing 617 tons ore yearly, equivalent to a
F.M.S. domestic quota release of 72 p.c.
of'assessment, the following results are
counted on with the proposed initial
issued capital of £170,000:
Tin at Tin at Tin at
£l5O. £2OO. £2OO.
Working profit* .. £30,500 £48,500 £66,500
Depreciation and
overhead .. .. 9,000 9,000 9,000
Net profit . . .. 21,500 39,500 57,500
Per cent, to capital .. 12.65 23.24 33.82
* After meeting royalty, transport and smelting
charges. (All figures sterling.)
The eastern sector, containing 50,501,000
c.y. (dredging depth, 90ft.), and check-
bored to average 0.61 b., will first receive
attention. For £55,000, including £27,000
for dismantling and re-erection charges,
Kuala Kampar’s No. 2 dredge has been
acquired. Based on the area proved by
checkboring, and on a maximum turn-
over of 300,000 c.y. monthly, working
life of the eastern section is approx. 14
years, and of the whole property 33 years.
* * * *
North Kalgurli’s mine steadily forges
further ahead of the mill. Best of recent
ore exposures is at depth in the old Kal-
gurli mine. At the No. 15 level 30dwt.
rock is being stoped over a width of 33ft.,
and at the No. 13 level stripping of the
north drive has bared an additional 12ft.
of lode stuff, making a total width so
far exposed of 24ft., averaging 14dwt.
Developments in other parts of the co.’s
property show that average-grade ore is
being opened up.
* * * *
London-controlled Imperial Co., oper-
ating on the Aberdare block at the
southern end of Kalgoorlie Golden Mile,
perseveres. Further boring at depth has
proved the existence of lode material,
but no values of importance have so
far been struck. The co. is not short
of funds and is full of hope.
* * * *
Linden, domiciled at Joyner’s Find, 30
miles from Wiluna, has bought a treat-
ment plant from Western Queen for
£2OOO and expects to start crushing in
a few months. According to T. R. Victor
(director), the mine, on which half the
cash purchase consideration of £lO,OOO
has been paid, is not a big one, but its
gold-carrier gives promise of living at
depth. A clear profit of 20s. to 30s. a
ton on the treatment of 800 to 1000 tons
a month is anticipated.
* * * *
Ingliston South (W.A.), formed in
Nov., 1934, with a nominal capital of
£125,000 in ss. shares, pays its first div.
of 4d. on May 4. Co. acquired a
property at Meekatharra from which
practically all accessible ore had been
extracted ; consequently considerable de-
velopment work had to be done to ex-
pose further ore for treatment and open
up reserves.
* * * *
First clean-up from the Comet (W.A.)
under the ownership of three De Bernales
and a couple of associated London con-
cerns yielded 2200 z. of gold, worth
approximately £l9OO Aust., while an
additional quantity awaits extraction from
the sands. Latest official reports indi-
cate that the shoot is going down, and
at 90ft., the deepest point yet reached,
assays 4oz. in the bottom of a winze.
Continuous and improving returns are
predicted.
* * * *
New Yilgarn, which recently took over
a troublesome goldmining venture near
Southern Cross (W.A.) from the finan-
cially-stranded Old Yilgarn, is preparing
to bog in. A report by a well-known
mining man states that a few thousand
tons of good-grade ore reserves have
been opened up, but that more develop-
ment is necessary to gauge the show’s
size.
# * * *
The rise in the price of lead has
caused Westralia’s one and only field
with a past to wake up. A few old mines
are being worked after years of idleness,
and farmers are sinking shafts on their
properties in the hope of making more
money out of lead than wheat. Most of
the metal at present produced on the
field is being bought by the Wiluna
smelters.
* * * *
Westralia’s gold yield still soars. Total
for the first quarter of 1937 exceeded
that for the same period of 1936 by about
50,0000 z. Should the rate of in-
crease be maintained during the unex-
pired nine months the output for this
year should exceed 1,000,0000 z. The
last occasion on which a year’s West-
ralian gold return was over that figure
was in 1916—1,061,3980 z. was produced.


HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney
II
Modern high-class accommodation
at a moderate tariff. Hot and cold
water in all rooms. Rooms with
and without private Bathrooms
and Telephones available. Meals
at moderate rates unexcelled
cuisine Dining Rooms, Grill
Room, Banquet Room and Winter-
garden, together with a first-class
orchestra.
Rooms only from 6/6 per night.
Telegrams, Cables and f'Vireless •
“METROPOLE," Sydney.
Telephones: 8W2061 (9 lines)
86363 (4 lines)
SMOKS-OH!
S.p. inquiry: What will it cost?
-I* -I- -I- '!*
“Tall people get depressed easily,” says a
doctor.
So do people who are habitually
short.
-I* *1- V 4-
“He succeeded in prolonging the set to tire
his opponent, but after one game of 30 points
he himself was very heated.” — “Herald.”
He stewed in his own deuce.
“ Tide’ll soon be back , Alf .”
“Winter is the most expensive season.”
—Social writer.
Yes, even the light bills are heavier.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“An American never refers to a policeman
by any term other than cop.”
They must be a tame lot of motorists
in America.
4- 4* 4* 4*
Arch
P d
a a
r 1
k e
hill
Portrait of Australia’s Defence Policy.
*s* *l* *s*
The “Yelper News” Free Insurance
Scheme.
The “Yelper News” has arranged to
cover its readers, free of charge, against
practically everything.
All you have to do is to forward the
coupon (together with £lO to cover cost
of postage) to the head office of the
“Yelper” and you automatically benefit
under the “Yelper” scheme. Here is a
list of the more important payments:
Should you explode suddenly on a
windy day, 4s. 2d.
For a fractured fibula, a torn toe or
a broken neck, provided the accident
occurs on a wet Sunday while you are
playing draughts, 2s. sd.
If you lose your torso in a train acci-
dent (should the torso be found after-
wards, the money must be refunded),
2s. 6d.
If you disappear suddenly (limb by
limb) for no apparent reason, 3s. 4d.
Should you dissolve in hot water,
11s. 3d.
Should you be consumed by a female
gnu, Is.
If you are flattened by a
steam-roller (the highest part of
the body must not be more than
lin. above the ground), 4d.
Should an umbrella burst in
your face while you are blow-
ing it up, causing ingrowing
hairs, Id.
If your nose expands to 10
times its original size for no
apparent reason, 6d.
If your left ear keeps on
dropping off, no matter how
many times you put it on
again, 3d.
If you change into a bright
green pincushion, 7d.
If the P.M.G. of Poland
suddenly pops up and saws you
into seven distinct and equal
parts, 17s. 6d.
Important: In order to bene-
fit by the scheme the claimant,
at the time any or all of the
foregoing happen to him, must
have that day’s copy of the
“Yelper” in the lining of his
top-hat.
Acco.
“When he heard the name Lily he thought
Mrs. Townsend had come. The girl, however,
was the sweetheart of Jenkins, his man.”
— Woman’s paper.
A Lily of the valet.
“The idea was rejected because it wasn’t at
all fleasibie.” — “Sun.”
In other words, not up to scratch.
•J* *£• *%
“Superintendent Sands, one of the cleverest
murder specialists of the day, weighs over 20
stone.” — “Herald.”
This Sands, so full of grit and weight,
Can run his criminals to their fate ;
In fact, tough gents who deal in crime
Regard him as the Sands of time !
McM.
Towards Naval Parity.
“Two parts of water to one of rum, instead
of three to one, is to be the British Navy issue
in future.”
This is an indication of the progress
being made with Britain’s rearmament
policy, although, in the opinion of some
strategists, the sooner parity is achieved
in this branch of the service the better.
Our family seadog, Rear-Admiral
Frobisher O’Cohen, R.N. (Bottle Dept.,
retired), contends that parity is not
enough, but that Jacky Fisher’s pre-war
dictum of a two-to-one preponderance
in all British naval strength should be
given effect to immediately in the victual-
ling branch.
In other words, two parts of rum
should be issued to one of water, and
then only when there is no danger of a
water shortage. Otherwise, as Uncle
Frobisher points out, why the devil
should the Empire be saddled with the
expense of the West Indian Squadron to
guard Jamaica?
Angus O’Cohen.
Looking at the collection plate the
vicar felt, with reason, that he had been
be-treyed.
•J#
“They must be able, in fact, to inject a
certain romance, elan, pep and personality into
the mundane matters of electric wattage.”
—Sydney “Sun,” of the Council’s “personality
girls.”
They want vAMPs who can spark,
watt?
•b 4* 4* 4*
“Their first payment into the bank account
had been manipulated in a fraudulent manner.”
—Court report.
Apparently a “fixed” deposit.
"Fm all right once I git out of town, boay, but I'm a bit windy among
all this traffic 'ere."
Hints for Husbands.
V. —The Mending.
Nothing is more conducive to bad
temper, when rummaging frantically
through the loug’nboy with one hand for
a pair of socks, while with the other you
juggle with the hot fried snork you are
trying to bolt down with only six minutes
left to catch the 8.35, than to discover
that the only ones available have a large
“spud” in one heel.
It therefore behoves the pru-
dent husband to ensure a good
supply by mending all those
which the wife had put aside to
do “when she had time.” You
will find several dozen assorted
socks poked away in a corner
of the wardrobe somewhere.
Sort them out, grading them
according to color, material,
etc. Here is your chance to
display that economical man-
agement of which wives invari-
ably claim a monopoly.
Close investigation will re-
veal that socks wear out either
(a) in the feet or ( b ) in the leg
part. The feet of woollen golf
socks, if gone too far to mend,
can be chopped off and the leg
parts pulled right up and used as an
excellent substitute for winter under-
pants.
Don’t bother to darn the other socks
—threading a darning needle with wool
is too tedious. To fill in the holes select
another sock, out of which you should
cut a circular piece about an inch larger
in circumference than the hole to be
covered. On the overlapping edge apply
fishglue or seccotine, and press the patch
over the hole. It can then be put under
the piano leg until it sets hard.
Care should be taken to see that only
socks of the same material and color
are used for patching. For the color-
blind husband the method is simple. Just
cut off the patches from any colored
socks, afterwards dyeing the mended
article black, tan or ox-blood. There-
after holes need cause no worry, even
when the socks are being worn —a dab
of boot polish from whichever tin corre-
sponds with the color of the socks will
quickly render the hole invisible.
Shirts should always be patched, never
darned or retreaded. The patches, of
course, will come off the tail. Just snip
out a piece large enough to cover the
warby part, but in this case glue should
not be used. One husband I know who
did use it had to undergo a surgical
operation to get his shirt off. That got
his shirt off, all right. Next attach the
patch to the inside of the shirt by means
of several safety-pins—these will be in-
visible, or practically so, when the shirt
is worn. The pins may be found rather
cold against the skin in winter, but this
is more than offset by the delightfully
cool effect in summer.
There is” practically no limit to the
number of patches a shirt can take —in
fact, it may almost be said to be self-
supporting. Personally, I favor stopping
when there is just sufficient tail left to
allow it to be tucked inside the trousers.
This, however, is a matter of opinion.
One harassed father of eight, who
through long practice has become expert,
stops only when he has reached the neck-
band at the back, by which time he has
completely refronted it. As he says, only
the front of a shirt is visible, and what’s
a vest for, anyway?
When the cuffs become frayed, just
draw a razor-blade across both sleeves
above the elbow. This converts it
speedily and neatly into a sports model.
The beginner-husband may find the
sewing-on of buttons a snag. Don’t
adopt the style favored by women of
pushing the needle through the top side
of the button and then stabbing blindly
to get it up through the holes again. Just
push the needle through, bring it around
the edge of the garment and through
again, and sew until it is on strong
enough. The buttonhole won’t go right
over the button, as 20 or 30 strands of
cotton will prevent it, but it should be
near enough.
Another valuable hint: Never use
overcoat buttons on a shirt—they don’t
tone.
S. W. K.
Embarrassing Moment.
/ spent most of my leisure at her side.
I called her “pet” or “kitten.”
And I’m afraid 1 took no pains to hide
That I was badly smitten.
I look her frequently to balls and shows,
To concerts and recitals.
I gave her flowers, perfume, gloves and
hose
And books with thrilling titles.
1 decked her out in satin, silk and fur
That cost a pretty penny.
But when her dad, a stern-faced pres-
byter,
Asked me one night what my intentions
were,
I found I hadn’t any !
P.O.M.C.


siiijiii
soc ?s?.?'nw
'Ho
memt CQ r° K
{ ro
,FM3
fIKEB«J
CO.C
PROP
‘J-o
MlO
®E* S S
°4ty D
SPHeBR
33i#S®
«4Pffi £. p W p W
A’sia irn
£?. iro
ba££
More Baskets for
a few Eggs!
r ’PHAT is what every investor wants. If you have a
few hundred pounds or, more particularly, only
£25 you hesitate to put all your capital “ into one
basket.” Here, however, is an investment with a wide
spread and attractive interest yield. FIRST AUSTRA-
LIAN UNIT TRUST CERTIFICATES provide 20
carefully-chosen, sound “baskets”—the securities shown
above —for investors of £25 and upwards. The interest
yield is approx. 4J%, and a world-famous institution,
Union Insurance Society of Canton, Ltd.
(Union Building, Bond Street, Sydney), acts as your
Custodian Trustees. The Certificates are realisable at any
time.
Send for explanatory booklet No. 1
to the Managers of the Trust : —
AUSTRALIAN FIXED TRUSTS PTY., LTD.,
8-14 BOX!) ST BEET, SYDNEY.
BOX 4028 V.V.. G.P.O.
TELEPHONE: 8.>294.
fc' X
i
p
LEARN
-from the Squirrel.
When nuts are plentiful (and nuts
are the riches of the squirrel
world), the wise animal eats what
he needs. But, little by little, he
builds up a store of food against
the lean future.
This plan has stood the test of
many thousands of years. So,
| why not act in like manner ?
From your earnings, put aside
something — however small —
but REGULARLY. Put that
regular something where it will be
safe but always quickly available.
Let the growing fund earn a
steady profit for you in interest.
Start a Savings Account, at once,'
and you’ll feel happier — and
safer.
SO./
common uicalth
SRUMGS BRiIK OF RUSTRRUR
Business.Rollery,Etc.
Too Much of a Good Thing?
Gold, “international money,” is once
again in the limelight, and not for itself
alone. It represents the measuring sub-
stance by which all other things are ulti-
mately valued, including currency.
Currency is what we buy things with ;
we do not use gold, but it backs most
currencies. A relationship as follows
exists:
Gold—Currency—Commodity Prices.
If a country’s currency (paper money)
is given a greater value in terms of gold
(making the metal, as a commodity,
“cheaper” in that country), prices of
all things are likely to become cheaper
to the extent of the increased purchasing
power of the currency. Fears (only) of
such a thing happening in the U.S.A.
have disturbed prices for the past fort-
night. If gold “dropped” 10 p.c., cur-
rency would have that much greater
buying power, and goods would be that
much cheaper.
Up to the Great War, in periods of high
and low gold production, in prosperity
and depression, the Bank of England
bought and sold at an unchanged figure
—so its currency did not alter.
Britain was actually “off gold” from
1914 to 1925 —it didn’t want to lose its
stocks. Because its action in fixing its
currency again at £4 4s. 10|d. to the
ounce of gold in the latter year
was overflattering to English pound-
notes, of which too many had been
issued to finance the war, there was
a rush by foreigners to convert ster-
ling currency into gold in 1931 —such a
rush that the Bank of England ceased
selling gold at the old price in order to
preserve its reserves.
How Continental currencies fell in
terms of gold during the post-war in-
flation is now history ; it is mentioned
here to remind that, though many coun-
tries were then practically bankrupt of
the yellow metal, gold survives to-day
as the world’s exchange medium.
Before the twentieth century it was
usual for periods of high gold produc-
tion to bring high prices of them-
selves ; an inflow of gold - money
created greater demands for goods
and luxuries. But the great develop-
ment of commerce and the general
adoption of the gold standard through
the world helped to absorb the colossal
gold output of the twentieth century up
to 1914 without any sensational rise in
prices.
The war was an abnormal period.
After the w ; ar the U.S.A. became pos-
sessed of most of the world’s gold;
annual production of the metal dropped
because of high post-war costs ot min-
in&- Then unhealthy trade conditions,
top-heavy public finance and wild specu-
lati°n brought about a crash in prices in
1929-30 and for five years depression
™ as Wlth us : Evei T country devalued
lts currency in terms of gold, and even-
tually commodity prices fitted in terms
of such currency. Just lately, partly be-
cause of war talk and largely because
q£ speculation lhere was a sud d=n up-
ward burs t j n commodity prices,
This brings us back to developments
Q |- tbe j ast mon t b j s feared in Britain
and (he us A that . boom conditions
ma come about agaip> with u]t i m ate
d j sas t er ( 0 trade and employment. Some
p£op , £ think it ]ogical that> in order to
cbeck the boom, steps the reverse of
Ulos£ which tended to create it may be
taken
1 The ensui rumor that the u.S.A.
may ££as£ buying gojd seems doubtful .
That it may reduce the price offered is
possible> xhat it would take any act ion
altering its currency and exchange
w fth OU t consulting Britain and France is
un ]j ke | v
j t j g sa j d tbat tbe muc h-increased
go ] d oU tp U t of Soviet Russia has
brougb | f ears that the “price” of the
metal may falL Value of world output
tbe me t a i expressed in golden sove-
re j gns ( no t paper money) since 1915 has
be( f n as follows:-
G( gJ 5 5oo T £4 1932 fiioi SOpOOO 8 '
5920 '. SSS 1933'. 101 ffiooo
1925 .. 80,817,000 1934 .. 116,200,000
J 928 .. 83,680,000 1935.. 131,680,000
.. 88,507,000 1936 .. 149,000,000
There is no doubt about the phenomenal
increase; in 1935 and 1936 output was
more than twice that of 1920. Whether
there is to be any drop in the “price”
of gold is purely a matter of monetary
policy. Gold does not vary in price ; but
it is possible that some countries may
choose to put a higher value on their
currency in relation to gold, and in such
a case gold would appear to fall in
“price.”
When gold is being turned out in
large quantities by countries which want
to spend it, it must have a lifting effect
on prices of ordinary goods and services,
“Plenty of money” always' results in
higher prices. But it is doubtful whether
present huge production of the metal is
greatly responsible for increased prices
paid lately for raw materials. Soviet
seems to be selling much of its
output, but it is not buying foreign goods
with all of it. It is establishing reserves.
Exports have greatly exceeded that coun-
try’s imports lately.
If the chief world countries decline to
buy gold —to exchange their paper
money for the metal —it will merely
mean that gold-producing countries, in
order to dispose of the metal, will have
to buy greater quantities of foreign
goods, or use the gold to discharge
other items of international indebted-
ness.
Gold, unlike other things, represents
buying power in any part of the world
at any time. Production of it is likely
to be automatically retarded by present
rising commodity prices and labor costs.
When President Roosevelt or others con-
sider “lowering the price” of gold they
are not really concerned about gold ;
they are worried about the present boom
in commodity prices. Prices and costs
will govern monetary policy for a
long time to come, and, whatever other
nations do, Britain, in view Of its still-
feeble export trade, can be expected to
take adequate measures to see that ster-
ling doesn’t become overvalued in terms
of gold. It was mainly overvaluation of
sterling that crippled British industry
during the post-war years.
Britain and the U.S.A. having appar-
ently set their faces against a continu-
ance of lifting prices—rises can’t con-
tinue for ever, and if figures go beyond
the reasonable thing catastrophe is bound
to follow —jitters are the order of the
day among speculators. They are won-
dering if all commodity prices are going
to slump. No more than a. steadying-
down can be the reasonable desire of
world Governments and financiers; a
slump is what they are trying to avoid
by “a stitch in time” now. Several of
the past feW years have been spent in
lifting prices in order to revive trade and
employment. The most that is wanted
now is a sharp check to speculation and
speculative outlay of capital. Stability
is best for industrial prosperity, and if
stability is restored to world markets,
even with metals and some commodities
at a slightly lower level, employers, Em-
ployees and investors should be all the
better for it. High prices have hardly
had. time to establish a new level of high
costs.
In 21 months the wholesale prices of
textiles in Great Britain have risen one-
third, on the average. The “Economist’s”
complete index of commodity prices
over the period shows a lift of 30 p.c.
In the past three months the increase
has been 12} p.c. In February the aver-
age for minerals rose over 1927 levels.
All other groups are still below the aver-
ages of ten years ago, textiles being down
most. Cereals and meat are next to
metals for buoyancy.
* * * *
Broken Hill Prop, scrip dipped steeply
on Tuesday of last week, receding to 82s.
9d. in Sydney and Melbourne. The
sharemarket was apparently reacting to
the base-metal market; but if B.H.P.’s
Barrjer mine is forgotten about alto-
h£f h Newcastle section of t he basi-
£ess shou]d be worth someth ing near the
nt r xhen there are the Port
£ £mb)a * orkg and oth£r subsidiary in .
terests at present not contributing td
earnings, but which should come good
* ater °( 1 -
Cement scrip, which has been
d -political cloud ever since the
duties on the British product,
ju , k |£ worth b ing at 245 . 3d .
shares) . The contribs. at 12s. are
attractive
particularly attractive.
Australian Cement £1 sha res lifted to
3Qs gd ]ast W£ek Qn the day that Ran-
dog J 6 S£ri eased tQ 24s 3d in Sydney .
Jf th£ vjc £, § ice is a fair one , Kan-
dos scri is worth 275 . 6d.
* * # *
Another issue is coming out of Cum-
berland Paper and Australasian Paper
f or f be purpose of financing the Gipps-
land paper-pulping project. Books
close on April 24 Cumberland scrip
has risen t 0 the best pr i ces of this
y ear, and those who bought on The
Bulletin’s recommendations show a
good profit. The participating prefs.,
which share pro rata in the issue, look
favorable buying still.
* , *
J T n Melbourne last week:
North Kalgurli shares, which have long
been regarded here with f ’ avor among West .
ra iian goldmining stocks, lifted to 21s. 3d.,
then sold at 20s. 9d. Quotes were about Is. 6d.
above the 1937 average, in spite of the hulla-
baloo over the price of the metal. Emperors
sold down tQ Lolomas to 2 25. 9d„ Mi.
Morgans to 175., Lancefields to 12s. 4d., and
Wellington Alluvials to 6s. 3d. Placers
sank to below £5.
British Tobacco ords. at 51s. 9d. returned
a shadg oyer 3 p c on an 8 p c div basis>
Australian Glass 3.2 p.c. at 935., and
Broken Hill Prop. 3 p.c. at 83s. 6d. . The
last-named has by far the greatest margin of
earning-power over divs., and its immediate and
more distant future looks brightest,.
Holeproof ords. sold at 30s. 9d„ after 31s.
be preceding week. G. J. Coles ords. rose Bs.
towards the close of the week.
Take Your Pick.
Broken Hill Prop, still looks one
of the best buys on the market at
about 84s. for the fully-paids, 775.
for the contribs. Yarra Falls,
down to 425., ex div., last week,
yielded a shade under 4.8 p.c.,
which is likely to be improved
upon subscription to the new issue.
Kandos Cement at 245. 3d. re-
turned 6.5 p.c., and was definitely
undervalued in relation to Aus-
tralian Cement. World prices 10
p.c. lower all round would prob-
ably do any of these cos. more
good than harm. It was the scare
about prices that knocked them.
N. S. Wales preliminary banking
figures suggest an easing in the
credit position, which should be
all to the good.


IBlilllllllll
■f.'
mm
1
w
Since 1863 William Sanderson & Son Ltd., Leith, have
been famous distillers. And from their vats comes Vat 69
a Scotch Liqueur Whisky mellowed with age and
unvarying in flavour.
“Vat 69” in Dump Bottles, Half Bottles, and Flasks.
VAT 69
, „ LIQUEUR SCOTCH WHISKY
Distributors: John Woods and Co., Ltd., 388 Sussex Street, Sydney.
Sub Agents: Pitt, Son & Badgery, Ltd., 4 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
PROSE WORKS
DF
HENRY LAWSON
#
25'-
1.
What Burns is to a Scotsman and Kipling to an
Englishman, Lawson is to an Australian —the voice
of his land. •
Most Australians know the writings of this master
Australian story teller, his brilliant tales of bush life
vivid with the atmosphere of the outback, matchless
in their sure delineation of the characters who live
and adventure there.
Here are delightful tales; tales of love, of strife,
of adventure; tales full of humour, homely tales;
stories for every mood—all alive with the magic of
Lawson ! s genius: a genius which ranks with that of
the world’s greatest short story writers —O. Henry.
Bret Harte, Gorki, Maupassant. To Australians in
particular these stories must have a strong appeal, for
Lawson is Australian, knows Australia, and has here
captured the spirit of the people who are making
Australia great.
Until now, however, it has been difficult to secure
anything like a representative collection of Lawsons,
stories. _ . . .. .
Complete in these two volumes are his
nine famous books:—
WHILE THE BILLY BOILS—
First Series
WHILE THE BILLY BOILS—
Second Series
JOE WILSON’S MATES
ON THE TRACK
- - JOE WILSON
THE ROMANCE OF THE SWAG
THE RISING OF THE COURT
SEND ROUND THE HAT
OVER THE SLIPRAILS
The two volumes are bound in fine cloth,
with title and spine decorations in gold
and a facsimile of Lawson’s signature on
the front cover. Each volume measures
9-lin. by is printed in large type
and will be a handsome addition to the
library of the most discerning collector.
ORDER FORM.
ANGUS & ROBERTSON, LTD.,
89 Castlereagh Street,
SYDNEY.
Please send me a set of Prose Works o'
Henry Lawson, Special Price 12/6.
(Postage, 1 /-.)
NAME
ADDRESS
B. 21-4
There is only a limited number of
these volumes available, and the
edition will not be reprinted. Do
not miss this unique opportunity
—post your order now.
*3Bs
SI
lIS
■
11
tm ■ ■ ■
Ilf
«5I
Pt
'££s £4l
Portions of the Emperor plant left
Melbourne and London last week for
the Tavua field. Preparatory work on
the mill site is nearing completion.
Large-scale operations are scheduled to
commence at the end of September.
* * * *
In accordance with the decision of
shareholders at the annual meeting, T R.
Victor and F. M. Murdoch have been
engaged by Mandated Alluvials to report
on the co.’s property in Papua. Both
men are now on the field.
* * * *
Associated Newspapers ords. have
been down lately—23s. 6d. last week.
When Fordyce Wheeler died it was con-
sidered that some of his holding might
come on the market and weaken quotes.
Another factor liable to affect the value
of the shares is the recent heavy in-
creases in the cost of newsprint. The
pulp market overseas has been soaring,
and all papers are affected. Still, the
“Sun” should be able to look after its
shareholders.
* * * *
The danger of permitting costs to
mount with speculative prices was
shown when metals slumped. Share
values dropped, too. Costs wouldn’t
drop so easily, c-nce up; and costs out
of balance usually mean less employ-
ment.
* * * *
A cold blast blew down Little Collins-
street, Melbourne, on Tuesday evening
last week, and shares in cos. not depend-
ing on metal prices felt it. “Herald”
scrip dropped from 745. 3d. to 725. 6d.,-
Carlton Brewery from 645. 6d. to 635.
6d., Drug Houses from 28s. to 275. 6d.,
and G. J. Coles from £5 Is. 6d. to £4
18s. There were other minor setbacks ;
then sharp recovery in G. J. Coles
•i* v
Shares in that luscious woolbroking
bonus-payer of other days Pitt, Son and
Badgery moved up to 51s. last week, the
highest quote of recent years. For a
long while the scrip could be bought
around 425. The co. has a pretty balance
sheet in which strength and conservatism
glow together. There are possibilities of
better things than 10 p.c. in the future.
Recently sharemarket interest has been
awakened by the increased wool returns.
* * *
Ord. shares in Morris Hedstrom, the
Fiji co. largely interested in copra, but
which also benefits whenever trade in
bananas and sugar brightens, slipped
back to 295. 6d. last week, after rising
to 325. recently. Copra didn’t weaken
much when commodities dropped the
previous week; it is used extensively m
the manufacture of nitro-glycerine, which
is very much a war material, and which
has lifted steeply in price. Morris Hed-
strom has a sound business, somewhat
seasonal; 30s. for the scrip seems
enough under present conditions.
$ * * *
Since Mauri Bros, and Thomson ords.
were recommended here a month or so
back, there has been steady buying at 755.
cum div., 745. ex div. There was hardly
a flicker in this order of things during
the last disturbed fortnight. The stock
is still regarded as essentially sound for
holding, especially in view of the im-
mediate (4 p.c.) and prospective return.
* * * *
A thing perturbing U.S.A. financiers
just now is the large foreign investments
in American industrial stocks. Much
of the proceeds of gold sold to the States
in late years has been left there for in-
vestment. Some Americans consider
that foreign investments may become
fighting-funds in the event of another
war, and that even if U.S.A. remains
neutral the expenditure of these funds
will create a boom that will do the
country no good.
* >K * *
The U.S.A. is contemplating a large-
scale change-over to trade unionism, with
all the etceteras that go with such a
move. Many have been the protests, in-
cluding one from Henry Ford. A writer,
touching on the subject of the introduc-
tion of a “living wage” in place of piece-
work, says that wages based on the cost
of living are “wages governed by wages
—an absurd position.” Absurd or not,
that is broadly how it is in Australia.
The living wage is regulated by the rise
or fall in the labor and other expenses
that go to make up the cost of food,
clothing and housing.
* - * * *
Associated Pulp and Paper 12s. 6d.
contribs. ran up to 15s. 4d. last week ;
they are growing increasingly interesting
to the investor. The expected profit-
earning stage is still a year or two off,
but the big interests which sponsored the
float are hopeful of good returns when
manufacture of fine papers does com-
mence.


SPORTING
MOTIONS
Under the Whip
Neither Evening Mist, who finished
third in the Doncaster, nor Regular
Bachelor, winner of the AJ.C. All-Aged
Plate at Randwick, could get a place in
the Glenhuntly Handicap at Caulfield on
Saturday. They finished sixth and
seventh respectively, without ever being
really in the picture.
Evening Mist started at 7 to 2 (favorite)
and Regular Bachelor at 9 to 2.
Diaphane, who led from start to finish,
set such a fast' pace that many of the
runners were carried off their legs (the
mile and a quarter was run in 2min.
4|sec.); but this does not adequately
explain why a galloper like Regular
Bachelor should have been last at the
half-mile. Skidmore simply could not
make the former Queenslander do him-
self justice.
His recent form being unimpressive,
Diaphane was allowed to go out at 25
to 1. Woodhouse, the little, apprentice
who had won three races on end with
Marion Melton, rode Diaphane with
great dash, and had energy enough in re-
serve to stall off challenges from Black
Mac and Lilirene. They finished in that
order, half a neck and a head separating
the placed horses.
Diaphane belongs to L. J. McCann,
whose father prepared Harvest King for
an Australian Cup success. Bred by Percy
Miller, the. gelding is by Caledon from
Scintilla (Linacre-Astron), a half-sister
to Brattle, winner of the Caulfield
Futurity Stakes and Oakleigh Plate.
Stan Reid has done good service to
“Darcy” Eccles as trainer. In 1932 he
captured the Moonee Valley Cup and
Williamstown Cup with Yarramba, who
went close to downing Peter Pan in the
Melbourne Cup. Reid on Saturday
credited Eccles with the Katandra Two-
year-old through the agency of Ronsar-
dian, a Ronsard colt whose granddam is
a half-sister to the. dam of Heroic.
Backed from 7 to 2 down to “twos,”
Ronsardian was as good as the betting
indicated. He romped home 2\ lengths
in advance of the M.L. filly Bellevue,
who finished so fast that she may be
ticked off as a certain winner in the near
future.
Triteleia beat Bridge of Mar with con-
summate ease in the Khartoum Hurdle.
He may develop into a National winner.
He passed the post with a mere three-
quarters of a length to spare, but Dum-
mett, the jockey, was fined £5 for easing
up too soon. Nowadays it is a common
thing for jumpers to be bred in the purple.
Triteleia is by Great Star (half-brother
to Papyrus, an English Derby winner)
from imported Mauve, half-sister to
Polycletan, winner of the AJ.C. Metro-
politan. Gay Lover, who vanquished
Pamelus in the V.R.C. Cantala Stakes,
is out of a sister to Triteleia.
Seymour parted company with Alick
Fullarton in the Great Eastern Steeple-
chase at Oakbank on Easter Monday, but
he appeared to have benefited physically
by the visit to S. Aus., and accordingly
was backed off the card for the Neerim
Steeple. He closed at 5 to 4, with “sevens
bar one” on offer and Elegance at
“eights.”
As usual Seymour sped to the front,
but he fenced too carefully—possibly be-
cause of the obstacles being different in
construction from those at Oakbank.
Keeping the favorite close company,
Elegance ran past him near the home
turn and scored, easing up, by seven
lengths. The course record for “about
two miles” was lowered by 2isec. to
3min. 46-Jsec. Both Seymour (the pre-
vious record holder) and Elegance were
bred in the Seymour district.
Seymour’s defeat was followed by an-
other painful shock to Caulfield punters :
Sidcup (11 to 8) succumbed by half
a neck to the 8-to-l chance Gold Streak
in the Glenferrie Handicap. A. lucky run
on the rails at' the home, turn gave Gold
Streak his narrow victory. Hostile finished
a creditable third, but hasn’t yet re-
turned to his best form. Karman, the
only candidate whose jockey was not en-
titled to an apprentice allowance, helped
to make, the running, and, though un-
placed, may win soon.
The start of the Brighton Welter was
delayed more than a quarter of an hour
through another jockey having to be sub-
stituted for De Valle as the rider of Ban-
quet. The ineligibility of De Valle arose
from his not having obtained formal re-
instatement after a month’s suspension.
With apprentice Fleming aboard Ban-
quet nearly brought dire disaster to
backers. Going out at 33 to 1, he led
the field a merry dance, and it was in only
the last stride that the 5-to-2 favorite,
Master Motley, beat him by half a head.
Sarokos was perhaps a trifle lucky to
wrest third place from Sly Wink, who is
in great fettle. Master Motley opened
at sixes. There was a rush for him at
that price.
Three of the Caulfield winners were
sired at the St. Albans stud of H. G.
Raymond and H. B. Ranken at Geelong.
Triteleia and Gold Streak are by Great
Star and Elegance by Gay Lothario. On
his recent overseas visit Guy Raymond
bought several English brood mares, but
he did not acquire a stallion to replace
Great Star, who is no longer at St.
Albans.
❖ ❖ * *
There is a growing opinion in Sydney
that former pony clubs should not be
granted Saturday dates. Kensington got
the latest, and a pretty good crowd wit-
nessed a poor programme. Misnomer
was the best horse engaged, and she is
doubtfully second-rate. Bookmakers
were among the profits early when Ross
Saywell’s Rose Gem (12 to 1) won the
Bunnerong Mile. She scored easily from
the favorite, Extra Mount, who comes
from the bush, as does the third candi-
date, Mackintosh.
Misnomer looked a good thing for the
Flying Handicap, but she was beaten by
Casicasado (7 to 1), whose dam, Wed-
ding Eve (El Cacique was the sire), was
a capital racehorse. Casicasado was
ridden a nice race by an apprentice, S.
Neale, whose father was a well-known
jockey on the Northern Rivers. Mis-
nomer and Prince’s Son cut at each
other, and were left without a kick when
Casicasado went round them at the top
of the straight. Grand Boy, having his
first race since a spell, was fourth.
Pastoralist Victor White’s Spread-
eagle was backed for the Novice as if
he were a stone moral. He merely
lobbed along at the same pace, and beat
only one home. Silver Fox (6 to 1)
battled on gamely to beat Tredonner and
D’Airain. By Dark Fox-Orula, Silver
Fox was bred by Hugh Denison.
Though the going was a bit heavy, it
wasn’t alone accountable for Silver Fox
taking 2min. 14fsec. to run a mile and
a quarter. Bad as it was, that time was
exceeded in the Kensington Handicap.
“The principal race of the day” drew
so poor a field that Measure was top-
weight with 9st.; but betting was brisk
enough. Spark was supported from
threes to 5 to 2, Contrast from sixes
to 5 to 2, Verdonia at 7 to 2 and Measure
at fives. Clever Billy Cook hit the front
on Spark, and slowed the pace down to a
canter till he got a break coming to
the turn. The other jockeys were caught
napping, and Spark won easily from
Measure, Verdonia and Nord. Time?
Yes, 2min. 18%sec.: the slowest for 20
years.
Lord Sun was at an unexpectedly long
price for the Three- and Four-year-old
Handicap: 5 to 1. The favorite was
Gay Venor (7 to 4), who handed out a
run that would scarcely have done credit
to an army mule. Lord Sun, despite his
9st. 31b., was taken to the front three
furlongs from home and won easily 1 :
Silver Coat and Silver Cap filled the
places. Monash River, a Brisbane moke,
was backed, but couldn’t handle the
going or something.
❖ * * *
The club at Maitland (N.S.W.) got a
capital field and an excellent race for its
Coronation Cup. The unlucky Brazeno
was favorite, and he looked like doing it
at last; but a well-sustained run brought
a half-head victory to Speldon (8 to 1),
Verberry being a good third. There is
Carbine blood in Speldon, who is by
Spelthorne-Donation, and in a tight
finish blood tells.
v * # *
Considering that Pamelus was rubbed
out in 1935 for not beating Lough Neagh
at weight-for-age, it is interesting to note
that the Q.T.C. handicapper has awarded
them both 9st. 121 b. for the Moreton
Handicap, to be run at Brisbane on May
8. It is a mile-and-a-quarter race, and
there is a 7st. minimum. In the Strad-
broke Handicap, a six-furlong race, ar-
ranged for May 1, Pamelus has 9st. 131 b.
Here there is also a 7st. minimum, and
the Bullhead horse must be accounted
well treated in both events. For the
Brisbane Cup Lough Neagh gets 9st.
101 b. (he won it very easily a year ago
with 71b. less), Spear Prince and Grand
Mogul Bst. 101 b. and Lominga, the
Queensland Cup winner, Bst. 51b. Other
Sydney horses nominated as well as
Grand Mogul are Tapestry (7st. 61b.) and
Fair Diana (7st. 31b.). Tapestry is rather
well treated.
H*
“Retired Gun”: Queensland’s new
anti-s.p. legislation has been working
fairly well, though all sorts of dodges to
get round it are being tried. The first im-
portant prosecution under the Act was
that of a 74-year old barber, who said
he was an agent and refused to disclose
his principal. Fined £5O ; £25 at once,
the balance within a month.
* * * *
What a. thing it is to be a fashionable
jockey! According to statements in a
court case, Darby Munro’s earnings for
the year to June 30, 1936, amounted to
£2711, presents from owners exceeding
by just on £3OO his percentages for rid-
ing winners. When Munro rode Peter
Pan in the Centenary Melbourne Cup,
Rodney Dangar gave him three times
as much as the percentage deducted for
him by the V.R.C., £5OO.
* * •■£ *
“Gate”: Some of the Sydney League
clubs are to broadcast race descriptions
on their grounds while football matches
are in progress. One objection is that
spectators and players will neglect
the game to listen to the impassioned
mouthings of the announcer in a tight
finish. Another and more important one
is that unless bookmakers are allowed to
ply their trade at the matches the inno-
vation will not' improve, matters. The
lads who throng the pubs on Saturdays
do so because when they hear the result
of one race they can immediately plunge
for a recovery on the next, or collect
their winnings forthwith from the agents
and do them in on the next, said
agents being handy at their elbows. A
punter going out to a match has to leave
his pick with the agent and cannot alter
it. In the pub he can change his fancy
as results reveal form or the lack of it.
* * * *
“G.P.”: Since I read The Bulletin’s
“Picking ’Em” articles I tried backing
Bulletin fancies on a plan of my own.
I had to take N.Q. prices ; but here’s
how I got on:
First week: Warwick Farm, £2 each way
Bulldozer; unplaced. £2 each way Fire-
man; won, 6 to 1. £2 each way Fanfare;
unplaced. In, £l5; out, £8; profit, £7.
Second week: Randwick, £2 each way
Ramdin; won, 2 to 1. £2 each way King’s
Head; won, 5 to 2. £2 each way High
Speech; won, 3 to 1. £2 each way Fire-
man; unplaced. £2 each way Lolorua; un-
placed. In, £lB 155.; out, £8; profit,
£lO 15s. Third week: Rosehill, £2 each
way Bonnie Legion; second, 9 to 2. £2
each way Mananui; third, 5 to 2. £2 each
way King Pyrrhus; third, 5 to 1. £2 each
way Heroic Faith; unplaced. In, £6; out,
£10; loss, £4. Fourth week: Rosehill, £2
each way Allunga; unplaced. £2 each way
Silver Rose; unplaced. £2 each way Auto-
land; won, 3 to 1. In, £7 10s.; out, £8;
loss, 10s. Fifth week: Warwick Farm, £2
each way Lough Neagh; won, 10 to 9. £2
each way Grand Mogul; third, 8 to 1. £2
each way Silver Rose; second, 8 to 1. £2
each way Mestoravon; won, 8 to 1. In, £3O
16s. 3d.; out, £4; profit, £26 16s. 3d. A.J.C.
Autumn meeting: First day, £2 each way
Allunga; won, evens. £2 each way Silver
Rose (Doncaster); second, 20 to 1. £2
each way Barramul; unplaced. £2 each
way Mohican; second, 6 to 1. In, £l5 10s.;
out, £8; profit, £7 10s. Second day at
Randwick: £2 each way Silver Rose; won,
2 to 1. £2 each way Bradford; unplaced.
£2 each way Mestoravon (Sydeny Cup);
won, 5 to 1. In, £l7 10s.; out, £4; profit,
£l3 10s. Totals: In, £65 11s. 3d.; out,
£4 10s.; net profit, £6l Is. 3d., and all in
six weeks. Shall I go on?
The N.Q. correspondent will have to
decide that for himself. Although this
paper has been fortunate this year in
giving the winners of Epsom, Metrop.
and Sydney Cup, and the runner-up in
the Doncaster, it never advises people
to back even its own tips.
(Continued on next page.)
Foofbrawl
There were surprises in the second
.ound of Sydney’s Rugby Union competi-
tion : University went down to Parra-
matta and Gordon accounted for Manly.
Drummoyne is the. only unbeaten team,
but it had anxious moments against
North: 14-11. Students couldn’t cope
with the Parramatta forwards’ hard
rucking. Though tries were even, one
each, the ’Matta forwards pinned
Uni. in its own. half and piled up
points from penalties—l 3-3. Manly
headed Gordon, 6-nil, at half-time and
then threw the game away. At the
bell last season’s, wooden-spooners
had put on three tries, all converted —
15-9 (one try and two p.gs.). Rand wick,
showing much better than it had done the
previous week, trounced East 24-9: five
tries to one. St. George was only two
points behind West at the end: 11-9.
* * * *
“Der Jong”: The Wallabies who
toured South Africa in 1933 will hold a
special reunion dinner to welcome the
Springboks. The tourists are to be
given as good a time as their itinerary
permits. After leaving Melbourne they
are to play at Orange, and will see the
Jenolan Caves and some of the stations.
Not quite so enjoyable, perhaps, will be
a couple of days at Canberra. The
visitors would enjoy much more than ali
these gaieties a free leg in Sydney. From
experience writer declares that these
compulsory visits to showplaces are
loathed by the average touring athlete.
o Continued on next page.)
“Magnetic”: Townsville (N.Q.), which
used to be rather a slumbrous spot, is
right up to date these days and a bit
further on than that. The burgesses of
the city have thus early applied to the
Q.C.A. for a match with the next Eng-
lish Eleven in 1940-41. The. application
states that, as it is almost' certain that the
flying-boat service will be in full swing
by then and that the team will be able to
travel by it, Townsville’s claims are
obvious. Arguing on those lines, Dar-
win will have to be considered. It would
be a liberal education for the tourists to
be pitted against a team made up of
abos., Papuans, Malays, Chinese and
Koepangers.
* * * *
“Tenth Slip”: William Pollock, who
toured Australia with the last English
team as “Daily Express” correspondent,
London, goes out of his way to refute
Jardine’s remarks about Australian bar-
racking. Pollock says that there is no
such thing—plenty of noise, but that due
mostly to the hysterical squeals of
women, a matter in which any listener-in
will back him. He testifies also that
Sheffield, Nottingham and the Tavern
end of Lord’s can give Australia points
in rough-and-ready criticism.
* * * *
The University regatta on the Parra-
matta gave Sydney G.P.S. crews another
chance of race practice before the Head
of the River. Scots had another easy
win in the junior eights, leading Police
by three lengths at the finish of the
mile and a half in Bmin. 53 2-ssec.
The maiden eights was a splendid race.
St. Joseph’s beat High by a quarter of a
length, with Grammar third only half a
length further away; time for the mile
was smin. 45sec. The maiden fours
went to a school crew also, Scots I, from
Drummoyne and St. Joseph’s 11. St.
John’s led all the way in the University’s
inter-collegiate eights, but finished, three
lengths ahead, on the wrong side of the
judge’s boat, the race being given to St.
Andrew’s, with St. Paul’s second, 12
lengths back.
FOR MOOREFIELD.
Brighton Handicap: Arabia;
next, Barak or Mohican.
Moorefield Handicap: Verberry ;
next, Hope.
Flying Welter: Fernacre ; next,
Misnomer.
FOR RANDWICK ON MONDAY.
Chauvel Flying: High Speech ;
next, Punjab or Mark Antony.
Monash Handicap: Royal Step
or Mohican; next, Plutus.
A.I.F. Handicap: Kinsfolk ; next,
Soft Step.
Birdwood Welter: Royal Step or
Mohican ; next, Barak.
FOR MENTONE.
Pozieres Handicap: Diaphane ;
next, Sarokos.
Somme Welter: Master Motley ;
next, Sly Wink.


P&O
HOMEWARD SEASON
It is with pleasure that the P. & O. Company announce their Homeward Programme
for 1938. Included in the sailings for London during the Season next year, it will
be noticed that there are three new "Strath” Steamers, viz.: "Strathmore,”
"Stratheden," and "Strathallan," which, together with the "Strathnaver and
"Strathaird,” and other P. & O. Royal Mail Liners, will offer unsurpassed
accommodation for First and Second Saloon and Tourist Class Passengers.
1938 SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY:
FARES FROM £39 PLUS EXCHANGE
ALL PARTICULARS FROM THE COMPANY'S AGENTS
&
o
ROYAL MAIL LINERS
CREAM OF YEAST is sold by
all Chemists and Stores—
-3 sizes—1/11, 3/6 and 5/9.
»
m.
'is
£
Glfe
mm
t ABI
ETs
OF
OjAM
i 1 i
Ms
7
T
Tc\ S t«
x. -mm
WICr -
Se rSo . S Mn g ’ Mpp
X ™ «ivp*:
ER
east ; °da
Ptri
a H(j
o r d,£ ar
X u ' T Eof Hilbi ' S
o
CREAM OF
YEAST,
THE SUPER TONIC.
Amazing
Vigor
through Cream of Yeast
Instant Pep and Sparkling Fitness—that’s what you get
trom Cream of Yeast, the greatest tonic “pick-me-up” in
the world. Cream of Yeast incorporates the very finest
Yeast, procured for health purposes only, without gas-
forming features, and with full vitamin qualities preserved.
Cream of Yeast promotes healthy appetite and sound
digestion, stops nerve pains and' depression, regulates the
system and makes you feel better and brighter in a few
minutes. Cream of Yeast is more than yeast, it is a safe,
reliable tonic remedy; made by one of the greatest chemical
organisations in the world, and is the very thing for those
who feel tired, nervous, depressed and unfit. Prove its
wonderful value for yourself. Satisfaction guaranteed.
Gives
Better Health
and
Greater Strength.
Team Yeast
Ll¥Ef
Makes
You
Feel Fit
Faster!
Under the Whip
Tapestry failed in his attempt to
win his third Wagga Gold Cup. A
strange jockey had to be engaged
because Parsons, the customary pilot,
had been suspended at Gosford the
previous day, and that, doubtless,
made a difference; anyway, Tapes-
try finished out ot a place. A
rousing finish saw Boyfred (5 to 1) beat
Thirloo and Povertdale, “half a necK,
half a neck.” Boyfred carried a 51b.
penalty, bringing his weight to 9st., for
winning the Albury Cup five days before,
and as he ran the mile and a quarter in
2min. 3 2-ssec. he must be pretty good.
He is a five-year-old gelding by Man-
t'red-Lemina, and was bred in S.A.
* * * *
“Siz”: Sydney “Sun,” campaigning
against s.p., has published some mixed
stuff from country correspondents. S.p.,
it seems, is responsible for failing attend-
ances at Newcastle (N.S.W.) Rugby
League, so the Leaguers are asking for
permission to play and charge at the gate
on Sundays. That would be highly
profitable to the Leaguers, provided
other sports did not follow suit and
offer opposition. The truth is that the
League has not been pulling crowds in
Sydney or country. Twenty and more
years ago football in the country used
to have these periodical lapses from
popularity ; in those days they used to
blame the weather. Also to the “Sun,”
from Grafton, comes a lament about
the effects of s.p. on horseracing there-
abouts. In the following day’s “Sun”
appears the announcement that the
G.R.J.C. is raising the prize-money for
its excellent annual race meeting, so it
can’t be drifting on to the rocks. As
for horseracing on the North Coast,
apart from Grafton, it has been rocky
for 30 years. One reason has been that
much of it has also been darned fishy.
Grafton is one of the few places to have
kept its racing clean, and it has pros-
pered, despite s.p.
* * *
A good chance of winning the Don-
caster with Tuckiar was thrown away
when his party determined to make a
stayer of him. In the New Year’s Gift
at Randwick Tuckiar ran a capital sec-
ond to Silver Rose, giving her 91b.; the
distance was seven furlongs, In the
Doncaster there was only 51b. between
them, and Tuckiar had in the meantime
beaten a good field in the Moorefield
Gold Cup, run over the Doncaster dis-
tance. That performance convinced
everyone of his worth, and further evi-
dence was given when the Heroic horse
ran fourth in the Randwick Stakes on
Feb. 28 to King’s Head, Lough Neagh
and Turbine, beating Talking and Sar-
cherie, who was to be the Doncaster
winner. He actually gave King’s Head
41b., although for the Doncaster King’s
Head was handicapped to give him 191 b.
After that, amazing as it may seem,
Tuckiar was scratched for the Doncaster
and run in mile-and-a-half races. He
failed on two occasions very dismally,
and the public saw no more of him
during the autumn.
M.Q. and Rafferty
At last a British heavyweight has
beaten a representative American. In
a twelve-rounder at London last week
Tommy Farr got all over Max Baer.
Baer has been world champion, but,
judging by pictures of his “fight” with
Louis, he is the worst scrapper that ever
held the title. He couldn’t get away
from Farr’s straight left, but was on
his feet when the final gong sounded.
* * *
Harry Macintosh: “C. 8.” is a
little astray (B. 24/3/’37). Myself and
the late Jack Dowridge were responsible
for the hospital expenses and care of
Peter Jackson in his last days. The
sportsmen in Brisbane contributed to
these and the funeral expenses ; “C. 8.”
may have been one of them. I recall
Peter’s remark when we put him on the
train for Roma: “I suppose I can cough
this other lung up in a few months.”
Footbrawl
“Port Melbourne”: Following up the
declared policy of the V.F. Assoc, this
season, Oakleigh has presented Essendon
with a bill for £lOO for seducing the
affections of one Powell, a player valued
by the Oakleigh club. Powell has been
training with Essendon with the avowed
intention of playing with the “Same Old,”
but now his alleged legal owners have
stepped in. Argument is proceeding, and
no doubt the matter will be settled out
of court.
* * * *
"Fitzcray”: Competition for likely new
football players in Melbourne is best
described as “fierce.” The other day a
Westralian all-round athlete of consider-
able calibre arrived in Melbourne. He


"SILVER
EDGE”
TRADE O MARK REGISTERED
THE RAYBESTOS CO.
BRAKE
LINING
You Must Have Reliable Brakes!
DO you realise that the brakes of a normal weight of touring car
are called upon to perform work at the rate of approximately
90 horse-power?
Practically the whole of the energy stored in your moving car
has to be converted into heat at the brakes before the car can come
to rest.
Your brakes must be reliable and capable of withstanding these
high loads and temperatures, so use only high quality brake lining.
for Raybestos, * which has proved itself over many years of service •
RAYBESTOS-BELACO LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Factory Rep.: JOHN ARNOLD, G.P.O. Box 71, MELBOURNE, VIC.
A cheap tyre gauge is seldom accurate after the newness has
worn off. But a Kismet Gauge, being scrupulously
manufactured to the finest limits of accuracy, guaran-
tees years of reliable service. Although it is priced
a shilling or two more than an ordinary gauge, it
costs less in the long run, because it keeps
its accuracy and neat finish all the time.
Factory Representative:
JOHN ARNOLD, P.O. Box 71, Melbourne, Australia.
De Luxe
Model,
The
“Popular
Priced'’
Model,
7/6
STANDARD
TYRE
GAUGES
CADET
WILLIAM TURNER & BRO., LTD., Eyre Works, Sheffield, 1, England.
had played Rugby in the West and was
no sooner landed than he was grabbed
by Footscray R.U. club. Nevertheless
he was pursued by scouts from half a
dozen V.F.L. clubs who flaunted con-
tracts and fountain-pens before his eyes
in the streets and shoved them through
the transom and under the door when
he was asleep. When the fury and the
shouting had died down it was discovered
that Sydney Rugby League had also bid
for the young man’s services.
* * * *
“Stand Off”: The Springboks are due
in Sydney on June 17, playing a match
at Orange on their way over from Mel-
bourne. The S’Africans wanted to bring
32 men, but the crowd this end jibbed
at the extra expense. If the big fellows
strike hard grounds in Australia they may
open a goodly casualty list. Ten of the
29 played in the Tests against the Wal-
labies and 11 in the undefeated team
which toured Britain in 1931-32.
* # -f *
“Muizenberg”: Phillip Nel, a giant
forward, is skipper of the Springboks ;
Craven, scrum-half, is his offsider. War-
ing, considered by the Wallabies to be
the star Afrikander centre-three, could
not come. The experts are well satisfied
with the team, but say the backs, with
notable exceptions, are an experiment.
Osier ruined S’African back play with
his tactics, and it has not, apparently,
recovered yet. Evidently the ’Boks in-
tend to rely on their tremendous forward
phalanx. Australian judges are hopeful
of beating them for pace in the loose
and behind the scrum. We shall have
to get the ball first, and with the best
of hookers those elephantine forwards
look like shoving our best pack off the
ball any time they feel like it. Austra-
lia needs a bit of luck, anyway. The
loss of winger McLean is a serious blow
to the game, and, on top of that, Storey,
•Australia’s No. 1 full-back, is out for
at least a season with a knee injury.
**’
“Maitland”: Western Province in the
Cape, long famous for the quality of its
football, has pride of place with nine
men in the ’Bok team. Next comes the
Transvaal with eight and Natal with
three. The Free State has not contri-
buted a player.
* * * *
“Stand Off”: It is 16 years since the
Springboks were here last. Three
matches were played at the Show-
ground and Sydney Uni. Oval, the ’Boks
winning all three —25-10, 16-11 and
28-9. The games were staged as against
N.S.W. only, Queensland still wallow-
ing in the Stygian darkness of the
League. One Queenslander, Otto Noth-
ling, who was at Sydney Uni., played a
great game for N.S.W. at full-back. In
M.L. that trip the tourists won the first
of three Tests by 13 to 5. They iost
the second 5-9 ; the third was a score-
less draw. In South Africa the All-
Blacks won two of the four Tests and
lost the others, so the two countries stand
even.
* * *
“Gate”: It has been seriously sug-
gested that the N.S.W. Rugby League, in
view of the falling-off in attendances due
to Saturday s.p. radio betting, should
play on Sundays. In the city, at least,
this would be impossible, but some of
the country clubs have found a way out.
They cannot charge for admission, of
course; but during the week before a
match they sell membership tickets at
Is. 6d. for men and a bob for women.
These are good the following Sunday for
admission to the match, and no legal
enactments like the Sunday Observance
Act are fractured. Next week fresh
membership briefs are on sale, and so
it goes on.
* * * *
“Gate”: Sydney Rugby League is
facing a gloomy future. Never before
has the professional code been so short
of players of class in all positions, and
the coming North-of-England tour by
the Q.-N.S.W. side is being looked for-
ward to with misgivings. The truth is
that the calibre of League football has
gone steadily downhill since recruiting
from the Rugby Union fell off. The
League code here, as in England, does
not seem to breed topnotch players. The
North of England heads have long
acknowledged this by going to Wales
and the Dominions for fresh blood.
* * *
“Amateur Pro.”: The president of the
Sydney University Rugby League club
warned the annual meeting that this was
the club’s last chance. Unless it showed
remarkable form this season it would
certainly be thrown out of the League
next time —there was a strong move to
do it last year.
H* H* '!•
“Outside Right”: The Soccer people are
putting the final touches on the prepara-
tions for the Englishmen’s visit. There
will be three sets of selections before the
final Australian team is announced. Two
teams will meet at Newcastle on May 3,
and another will figure in the Coronation
Day match in Sydney. Then the 22 best
“That’s ’Enry , our best all-round player.”
out of that crowd will meet on June 19
in Sydney before the Australian selectors
take a hand.
Nineteenth Hole
“Sandringham”: Kirkwood and Hagen
shook the Melbourne mud off their
brogues to the accompaniment of bitter
complaints of the parsimony of Mel-
bourne’s golfing public and the refusal
of the clubs to give any assistance to the
tour. Kirkwood was particularly wrath-
ful. He declared it a lasting disgrace for
Melbourne followers of the game to
“chisel us out of the gate with con-
temptible subterfuges.” The two closed
their Victorian tour, and with one more
appearance in N.S.W. departed.
“Hoylake”: Some of the golf prizes
given in Britain are calculated to make
the mouths of Australian professionals
water. The first big purse of the English
season, the “Daily Mail” £2OOO tourney,
has been won by S. L. King, assistant
professional at Sevenoaks club in Kent.
King’s aggregate was 283, and his third
and fourth rounds were 67 and 69.
During the first of these rounds he took
only one putt on eight greens and 28 for
the round. Cotton was second, only
four strokes worse.
* * ❖ *
“Hoylake”: British golfers intend to
celebrate the Coronation in an unusual
way. This will be an all-star match in
which two of the best women golfers
and 10 leading professionals will meet
a team of 20 of the best amateurs in 36
holes foursomes. The affair should be
interesting, but it would not be betting'
wild to wager that it will result in the
worst exhibition of golf seen for years.
* * * *
“Heil”: Sydney has acquired its first
German professional golfer. He is Paul
Falk, who, spotted as a likely lad by
Percy Allis, the English pro. at the Ber-
lin club for years, was sent to Britain
to learn the art and mystery of the game.
He was at St. Annes under George Dun-
can and at Walton Heath with James
Braid. For some time he has been assis-
tant at Wentworth club, near Ascot and
Fort Belvedere of unhappy memory.
Falk says the game has spread rapidly
in Germany. Every German profes-
sional has to pass an exam, and win a
Government certificate before being
allowed to teach. He must, of course,
be an Aryan.
Racquet and Bawl
“Top Spin”: America meets Japan
and Australia Mexico in the Davis Cup
series on April 30. The Japanese profess
confidence ; their skipper, Yamagishi,
says the Yanks are inconsistent and tem-
peramental. Writer would sooner expect
Mexico to beat Australia. The great
altitude of Mexico City, where the tie
will be played, may quite likely affect
our players, particularly Crawford.
* * * =i=
“Cut Shot”: G. M. Lott, the doubles
player of other days who went over to
the paid ranks a couple of years ago,
is coaching the American Davis Cup
team. Lott backs the winner at Forest
Hills, where U.S.A. and Australia meet,
to take the pot. England’s chance he
described as Buckley’s—or would have
done had he been familiar with the
expression.
*** * .
“Rev. Knucklebone”: Recently The
Bulletin mentioned that Yugoslavia,
which last year won to the Davis Cup
semi-finals, might be a disturbing factor
this year. Since 1936 the Yugoslav team
has been playing on tour nearly all the
time, and means to leave nothing to
chance. It closed its tour of South
Africa with a Test at Jo’burg, and won
handsomely.
Miscellaneous
“Jolimont”: Melbourne C.C. was on
the verge of being licked by Richmond for
this year’s pennant, when Ponsford came
to light with a fighting 100 and won the
game for Melbourne. This is the club’s
third successive victory in the competi-
tion. Though Ponsford shied occasion-
ally at McCormick’s fast bumpers, his
form suggested that he would have been
darned useful as an opener in the Tests.
* * sfc
“Aigburth”: Bad news of Robins, who
has had his hand vetted by experts on his
return to England. The injury is much
worse than supposed, and it is likely he
will have to give up the captaincy of
Middlesex and perhaps cricket alto-
gether. A pity if that is so, for Robins
is the type of amateur, all too rare nowa-
days, who used to be the backbone of
county cricket.
i\i :jc >J: :|:
“Aigburth”: Marylebone is to con-
sider the working of the “new” l.b.w.
law, which has now had a fair trial in
English and Australian cricket. A meet-
ing on May 8 will either establish the
law permanently or strike it out. As
far as can be gathered, the alteration has
made little difference in cricket, and has
been accepted generally by the experi-
menters. What needs to be done now
is to make it applicable to bowling
breaking from the leg. At present only
the offbreak spinner gets the advantage
of any virtue there may be in the law.
“Bramall Lane”: One last, dying kick,
and a hefty one too, has been adminis-
tered to “bodyline bowling” by E. H. D.
Sewell, a notable English writer on
cricket and once a county player of
some calibre. About the mildest thing
he has to say of bodyline in his book
From a Window at Lord’s is that it was
“Capone cricket,” and that it was “a
merciful thing it did not happen at
Lord’s.” “It is no honor to us,” he con-
cludes, “that bodyline was an English
invention.” But the exploiter of body-
line in Australia was a Scot.
* * * *
“Hotham”: Instead of keeping mum,
the Victorian C.A. wrote to the Board
of Health complaining of its strictures
on the overcrowding of Melbourne C.G.
at the recent Tests, and got a nasty
smack on the wrist in reply. The Health
people point out that the affair is none
of the V.C.A.’s business but is a matter
between the board and the Melbourne
C.G. trustees. The V.C.A. basketed the
letter and closed the argument. Inci-
dentally, it was disclosed that the
V.C.A.’s profit from the Test and State
games was £14,369.
* * * *
“Spike”: N.S.W. amateur athletic
heads are in a tangle over finance, no
new experience. Two big events loom,
the Australian cross-country champion-
ships in Adelaide next August and the
national track and field games at Bris-
bane later. At present the condition of
the sock is such that not more than two
men and a yellow dog can be sent to
either meeting unless some Midas swims
into the A.A.A.A.’s ken. Even then there
will be only brass enough for transport,
and competitors may have to return to
the methods of the old-time amateurs
and pay their own expenses.
*I : 'l s •!' v
“J.D.”: Peds run in all shapes.
Frank Bradley, winner of the Jubilee
Gift at Stawell (Vic.), belongs to the
stumpy class, as did Banner and Ralph.
Roberts and Twomey were of the leggy
type but not big: few really big men
have been successful in the Gift, though


ĺ
I
v 5«
■/
«•»«***•'**'
m
m
I®,
SiZ3L
• Bun
Agents:
John Woods & Co.
Ltd.,
388 Sussex Street,
Sydney.
Distilled by:
fairam Walker & Sons
Ltd.,
Walkerville, Ontario,
Canada.
Since 1858.
The Basis of
Perfect Cocktails
| (PRE-WAR STRENGTH)
The Cocktail Recipe that won the
prize in a competition open to the
World had as its main ingredient
Canadian Club Whisky.
This Whisky, bottled in bond at pre-
war strength, costs no more than
standard Scotch brands, yet it has
won and retains International repute.
Write for a free Cocktail Recipe
Book to the Agents.
“MY FORDSON IS VERY ECONOMICAL
—averages less than a gallon per acre.”
-ill?
iS
1
"In past 14 months have ploughed, cultivated and
harrowed 4,000 acres with my Fordson . . . operation is
very economical... averages less than a gallon per acre...
am more than satisfied with my Fordson which is running
as well today as when new,” writes a well-known farmer.
Important Fordson features include:
COUNTERBALANCED CRANKSHAFT .... HEAVY DUTY TRANS-
MISSION .... GOVERNOR CONTROL .... SPECIAL AIR CLEANING
SYSTEM .... CRANKCASE VENTILATION .... “HOT-SPOT”
VAPORISER . . CLUTCH PULLEY . . BOSCH MAGNETO IMPULSE
STARTER . . . REAR END POWER TAKE-OFF (optional at extra cost)
A sic your local Fordson Dealer to explain the easy purchase terms avail -
rrn able under the special Fordson finance plan.
Fordson
Tractor
ASK YOUR FORDSON DEALER TO DEMONSTRATE
DISTRIBUTORS:
New South Wales:
MOTOR TRACTORS
LTD., Corner Bridge and
Young Streets, Sydney
Queensland:
BUZACOTTS (QUEENSLAND)
LIMITED
443 Adelaide Street, Brisbane
Victoria, Riverina &Tas.:
MALCOLM MOORE
LTD.. City Showrooms:
601-3 Lt. Collins St., Meib.
South Australia:
POWER PLANT LTD., 98-100 Currie
Street, Adelaide
Western Australia:
LYNAS MOTORS LTD.. Hay Street,
Perth
FORD MOTOR COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA Ptv. Ltd. (Incorporated in Victoria)
F165.15T
THE LOWEST-PRICED TRACTOR PER HORSE POWER
Divorce Notice.
JN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction
No. 453 of 1937.
BETWEEN GEORGE CLARENCE MISSING-
HAM Petitioner '
And MAGGIE MISSINGHAM Respon-
dent.
TO MAGGIE MISSINGHAM formerly of
1334 Rocky Point Road Sans Souci near
Sydney in the State of New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the abovenamed
GEORGE CLARENCE MISSINGHAM has
commenced a suit against you the said
MAGGIE MISSINGHAM in this Honorable
Court and is applying for a dissolution of
marriage on the ground of desertion without
just cause or excuse during three years and
upwards AND TAKE NOTICE that you are
required to enter an appearance to the said
suit in the proper office of this Honorable
Court on or before the Seventh day of July
One thousand nine hundred and thiity-seven
and in the event of your not so doing within
the time limited or obtaining further time the
Petitioner will proceed and the suit be heard
and determined your absence notwithstanding.
A copy of the petition filed herein may be had
on application to the undersigned Solicitors
free of charge.
DATED this Eighth day of April, One thou-
sand nine hundred and thirty-seven.
For the Registrar,
(1.5.) R. S. JOHNSON,
Clerk in Divorce.
WILSON & CLAPIN, Solicitors, 17 Castle-
reagh Street, Sydney.
Unclaimed Funds.
JAMES and WILSON.
WANTED, relatives of DOUGLAS HOSKEN
HARPER JAMES, deceased, and WILLIAM
VERNON WILSON.
Any descendants of FREDERICK JAMES,
CHARLES ANDREW JAMES and EDWARD
JAMES may be entitled to a share of property
in England. All three were sons of Lieutenant
James, R.N., of Cornwall, who died in 1857.
I. CHARLES ANDREW JAMES, supposed
unmarried, born 1840, formerly of Naracoorte,
South Australia, not heard of after 1894.
11. EDWARD JAMES, bom 1842, died
about 1866 in Australia, having married and
left one child, Thomas Henry Andrew Hosken
James, last mentioned in 1886.
111. Rewards will be paid for proof of the
death of any of these persons or the present
whereabouts of them, if living, or of any de-
scendants.
IV. Information also required of WILLIAM
VERNON WILSON, a seaman, son of Cap-
tain Charles Pooley Wilson, a first cousin of
Douglas James, not heard of since 1908, when
he was in Melbourne.
A reward will be paid for proof of his present
■address or date of death or whereabouts of
widow or children, if any.
All applications can be sent to BUDD & CO.,
33 Bedford Row, London, or MOULE,
HAMILTON & DERHAM, of 394 Collins
Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Personal and Missing Friends.
PRIVATE CHARLES LIONEL MUMBY,
No. 872 of the 2nd Battalion, is anxiously in-
quired for by his aged mother. Last heard of
in Sydney several years ago.—No. 281,
Bulletin Office, Sydney.
WOULD JOHN MADDEN (son of John
Madden, deceased, lronmoulder, of Leichhardt,
N.S.W.), who left Australia in 1908 on barque
Messina or Marseilles, which was wrecked,
next heard of in R.F.A. in England under
name of ARTHUR KELLY, later a submarine
officer, or anyone knowing his whereabouts,
please communicate with STEPHEN, JAQUES
& STEPHEN, Box 206 D, G.P.0., Sydney?
Brisbane’s Leading
Daily
THE
TELEGRAPH
has the largest sale in the
area of Greater Brisbane,
and carries the largest share
of local retail and classified
advertising.
Successful Traders
show the way
Brisbane’s most prosperous
business houses consistently
advertise in “The Tele-
graph.”
“The Telegraph” is Queens-
land owned and controlled.
Essentially the Home Paper
of the Brisbane people.
(Member of A.8.C.)
Hearn was tallish. Bradley measures
sft. 6in. in his socks, but has tremendous
thigh muscles and is very fast from the
holes. He has been in the game for
12 years.
H* *l* 4*
“Toowong”: The Queensland repre-
! sentative eight left for Adelaide and the
King’s Cup race in great buckle. The
G.P.S. lads have been rowing together
for some years with conspicuous suc-
cess and are very keen on their chances
of winning. A happy omen lies in the
fact that last time the race was rowed
on the Murray Bridge course Queensland
won. That was in 1924, Bananaland’s
only win in the Cup contest, though in
pro-war days the State pulled off the
inter-State championship on the Yarra
in 1891. April 24 is the date.
* * * *
“Bung”: If all goes well Australia
will see an English ice-hockey team in
1938 after the Empire Games. Finance
is the trouble, and the N.S.W. body
which has the matter in hand will make
the usual assault on the State’s lug. An
American team will be visiting Japan
about the same time, and may come on
here for a “world’s” championship tour-
ney. According to the papers in Eng-
land, where it has caught on immensely,
the game is of the roughest and
“dirtiest.” The Canadians made the
rough work a welter in the Tests, and
Britain did not lag behind.
* * * *
“Blue Chalk”: Horace Lindrum leaves
England with Inman on April 24 on a
world tour which will include Australia
and M.L. Lindrum has been doing won-
ders at snooker, putting up world’s
record breaks of 149 and 135, though
he failed to wrest the championship from
Davies. He is improving rapidly at the
open game also, and during his season
in England put up a best break of 1008—
under baulkline rules, of course.
* * * *
“Ace”: One hears little of rackets in
Australia, though in England the game
has a great vogue in the public schools
and universities. One of its handicaps
is the cost of the enclosed court in which
it is played, while the nature of the four-
walled courts makes a big gate impos-
sible. Like royal tennis, the game is
played both by professionals and ama-
teurs, and, like that game, has been
played in the U.S.A. for many years.
The other day in England an amateur
won the world’s championship for the
first time for 75 years. Milford, the
winner, is 31 and amateur and open
champion of England, besides having a
splendid record at Rugby and Oxford.
His opponent was Norbet Setzler, an
American professional.
* :J: :jt *
“Splash”: Water-polo enthusiasts are
trying to get their game included in the
Empire Games. If it is, teams from
Canada, South Africa and England will
attend. Whatever may be the custom in
other countries —and we read in the ac-
counts of the Los Angeles Olympiad of
a beaten team throwing the umpire into
the bath —water polo is played in Aus-
tralia, especially in the matches between
Victoria and N.S.W., with some ferocity.
The sport is hardly likely to be included,
however. Already the promoters of next
year’s show have more sports desiring
to be represented than they have room
for.
* * * *
“Squalus”: The world’s record shark
was caught by Dr. Fischer, Consul for
Denmark, off Sydney Heads the other
day. The brute weighed 10491 b., 131 b.
more than that caught by Zane Grey in
the same locality last year. Dr. Fischer's
shark, alas! will not supersede Grey’s
tiddler on the records, because the doctor
finished the shark by shooting him in-
stead of gaffing him. The rules laid
down by the Americans some years ago,
and now generally adopted wherever
big-game fishing goes on, say the quarry
must be gaffed shooting is specially
banned. It is tough luck on the Consul,
but there are plenty of fishermen used
to N.S.W. waters game to wager that
there are sharks off the N.S.W. coast to" 1
which the fish caught by Grey and the
doctor would come in handy as bait.
It’s up to Dr. Fischer to prove it.
* * * *
“Cheese”: The latest American craze
is skittles, an ancient game usually asso-
ciated with dubious beershops. The
ancient variety, which still lingers in Eng-
land, is played with five egg-shaped
“pins” and a heavy wooden implement
known as the cheese. For many years
Americans have played ninepins, but this
has been abandoned for the English
game, known there as bowls. A series
of games for the championship of the
U.S.A. is being followed by 2,000,000
addicts. There are 20,000 competitors,
and 150,000 enthusiasts are expected to
pay six dollars a head for watching the
tourney in N’Yark; £30,000 will be
dished out in prize-money.


Patents.
IMPROVEMENTS IN CLASPS.
THE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent No.
11194/33 is prepared to negotiate for the sale
of its rights in the above, or for the granting
of a license to make, use and vend the inven-
tion within the Commonwealth of Australia.
Particulars obtainable from Griffith, Hassel
and Griffith, Patent Attorneys, Sydney.
Take
your Doctor's
advice—
He recom-
mends them
o
HUDSONS
EUMENTHOL"
JUJUBES
Sold by all
chemists
and stores
6d. & 1/6 tin
SHADOW
SHOWS
“Come and Get It.”
LUMBER KING .... Edward Arnold
HIS SON Joel McCrea
HIS FRIEND Walter Brennan
DANCE-HALL GIRL)
HER DAUGHTER J F,ances Former
Opens with Barney Glasgow (Arnold),
boss of a lumber camp, showing the cook
how to put zest into the ceremonial of
beating the iron triangle that summons
the workers to a meal. Follows up with
a survey of the purple spots of Barney’s
career —how he fell in love with the
beauteous Lotta, dance-hall singer, but
discarded her to marry a rich man’s
daughter. Lotta married Barney’s old
Swedish friend Swan Bostrom. Twenty
years later Barney, now a millionaire,
visits Bostrom. Lotta is dead, but her
daughter is her reincarnation. The
elderly and corpulent lumber baron plans
to divorce his wife and marry the second
edition of his old love—brings Lotta and
her father to town and buys them the
best of everything. But when he reveals
Edward Arnold in “Come and Get It,”
coming to Sydney Mayfair.
his intentions to the girl she is already
engaged to his son, and tells him he’s
“an old man.” At the fadeout Barney,
who is giving a great dinner to all his
hundreds of employees, is beating a huge
iron triangle to summon them to the
feast. “Come and get it!” he yells with
demoniac frenzy.
The exact significance of the title is a
bit elusive, and Arnold, though a very
fine actor, is a bit too broad in the beam
for a figure of romance, but despite
all this he makes Barney a live and un-
derstandable character. Miss Farmer
copes with two very dissimilar roles in-
telligently and charmingly, and McCrea
has a part that was made for him. Com-
ing to Sydney Mayfair.
“The Flying Hostess.”
CRACK PILOT William Hall
AIR HOSTESS Judith Barrett
AIR SUPERINTENDENT,
William Gargan
Neatly presented melodrama revolv-
ing round the duties and training of air
hostesses and advertising the efficiency
of American airways. Snappy comedy
supplies a good balance.
Three hospital nurses land jobs as air
hostesses with the same co. One gets
married to a regular passenger who
turns out' to be a crook. Another is
there to add some comic relief. The
third gets going a first-class row with
the crack pilot, natural prelude to
romance, which duly blossoms during a
flight in which the crook, fleeing from
justice, cuts loose in the ’plane. With
both pilots temporarily out of action and
the gangster laid permanently low, the
gallant goil, guided by instructions from
the airport and with the aid of a beam,
brings the passenger-laden airliner down
through a thick fog.
William Gargan makes a much better
showing than in previous efforts, and
William Hall, large, aggressive and rather
grim, revels in a he-man role. Judith
Barrett is not outstanding, and Andy
Devine is dragged in to add some mild
comedy with his falsetto voice. The
brightest piece comes from Ella Logan
as the heroine’s wisecracking pal. At
Sydney Capitol.
“Black Legion.”
LEGIONNAIRE .. Humphrey Bogart
HIS WIFE Erin O’Brien-Moore
HIS PAL Dick Foran
Hollywood, which flung a powerful
message from the screen with “Fury,” a
polemic against Judge Lynch, now
launches an equally potent assault on
cowardly morons who conceal them-
selves in hooded robes and conduct noc-
turnal bashings and murders under the
pretence of patriotism. The film suggests
that such societies are run by racketeers
who rake off thousands from the sale
of the ridiculous panoply, firearms, and
so forth.
The play concerns a young, enthusiastic
but rather moody machinist in a car
factory who, furious at having been
passed over in promotion in favor of a
smarter foreigner, is inveigled into join-
ing the “Black Legion,” a secret society
aimed at “protecting American workers
from foreigners.” Having got into it,
threats of death prevent his withdrawal.
Thereupon his degradation gains impetus,
'his wife leaves him, and the final wreck
of his life comes with the murder by
the Legion of his best friend, who is
trying to extricate him from its toils.
Arraigned for the. crime, he blows the
gaff, and in the subsequent mass trial
the Judge delivers an eloquent denunci-
ation of such societies. Interest is held
throughout, there are no heroics and no
pandering to happy-enders—the stark
climax is as logical as it is tragic.
Humphrey Bogart, in the best per-
formance of his career, portrays the
subtle change in character of the central
figure. Erin O’Brien-Moore as the
wronged wife does her little piece with
distinction, and Dick Foran, given his
first chance outside Western roles, acquits
himself well. At Sydney Capitol.
“Hitch Hike Lady.”
SILVER-HAIRED MOTHER,
Alison Skipworth
HER DAUGHTER Mae Clarke
BENEVOLENT CROOK,
Arthur Treacher
LOYAL GORILLA .... Warren Hymer
This, the second string on the current
programme at Sydney State, is princi-
pally interesting as marking a further
declension in the morality of the char-
acters represented by Arthur Treacher.
Up till a few weeks ago he buttled
blamelessly, his one step aside being a
film in which, with the best of motives,
he pretended to be the engine of an auto-
mobile. Then came “Step Lively,
Jeeves,” in which he was a spurious, but
unknowingly spurious, earl. Now he
throws off all cloaks and reveals him-
self as an English con. man, “The Duke,”
with the formidable-looking Hymer as
henchman. His swindle is the promotion
of a lemon competition in California.
He gives a prize of 500 bucks and re-
tains the exhibits, worth S4OOO. But
what the film is mostly concerned with
is his intervention on behalf of a nice
old widow. She is penniless, and her
only son is (unknown to her) in gaol.
The kindly crooks not only keep from
the old lady her son’s disgrace, but pro-
vide her with funds, get her son paroled
from prison, and set him up comfort-
ably on a farm. The screen’s champion
example of Santaclausism to date.
“Strangers on Honeymoon.”
HONEYMOONERS, Hugh Sinclair and
Constance Cummings
An Edgar Wallace adaptation, with
only homoeopathic thrills and plenty of
impossible situations. Hugh Sinclair
paints dark shadows under his eyes and
emerges from a bush of poisoned ivy
as a tramp. Miss Cummings is October
Jones, who calls the bluff of her fiance
and marries the tramp. He, very tight,
and she in her bridal gown and veil
spend a night in a haunted house elud-
ing a couple of hired killers ; then they
steal clothes and a smart roadster, and
drive all the way to Canada with the
hood down and no overcoats. Pursuing
them is a cadaverous female with murder
gnawing at her heart. The tramp is
Lord Quigley in disguise, and he has a
clue to the location of an oil well. The
unpleasant female is his cousin, and has
the second clue in the jigsaw puzzle.
The third and last is owned by another
double-crossing relative in Canada.
Knife-throwing, revolver shots and
chloroform are introduced into the last
reel. Villains and villainess go to gaol,
but the eye-shadowed hero, who has been
guilty of theft, false pretences, imper-
sonation, housebreaking and forging of
passports, has a sturdy posse of Can-
adian Mounties at his service, wins the
girl and, apparently by stealing the clues,
the oil well also. At Melbourne Athe-
naeum.
“Soft Lights and Sweet Music.”
An English essay on the lines of the
annual “parades” and “revues” with
which Hollywood cashes in on ephemeral
vaudeville and radio successes. In this
case the principal source of entertain-
ment is a dance band conducted by one
Ambrose, which plays what passes for
music among the non-musical people of
the U.S.A. Ambrose and his saxophon-
ists are assisted by negroes, male and
female, who inject lugubrious ballads
and spasms of tap-dancing into the pro-
ceedings. A few infantile jokes are pro-
pounded by a stout gentleman named
Harry Tate, who presumably knocks ’em
in the ’alls, and the two best items,
“Don’t Be a Cad,” by the Western
Brothers, and a parody on “The Shoot-
ing of Dan McGrew,” suffer from the
fact that they have been circulating on
gramophone records for years and years.
At Sydney Lyceum.
STAGE SHOWS.
Plays by Australians.
Sydney Players’ Club presented on
Saturday night, at the Savoy, two plays
written in Sydney. “The Spirit Host,”
by Edith Levis* is a romance laid in the
days when Ireland, newly-Christianised,
“Mo," back in Sydney.
was run by multifarious kings who, when
not repelling the Danes or the Norsemen,
waged war upon each other. The story
opens effectively with an implication that
the pagan “little people” linger in the
land and can be seen and heard by some
poetic souls. One such is young Michael
(Ron Randall), thrall to Lord Dermot
(Alfred Goran). Michael pretends to
hate his master, but nevertheless dies for
him after helping him to win the love
of the Lady Maeve (Betty Coller) in pref-
erence to the blustering Prince Patrick
(Alex. Boden). Characters are neatiy
sketched, but the part played by the
“little people,” after a lot of building-up,
is not apparent, and questions as to the
parentage of Michael and Dermot are
not answered. Acting was fair. Mollie
Kirwan was producer.
Nora Kelly’s comedy “Half-way to
Paradise” is modern and sophisticated.
Scene is a Maoriland tourist hostel, prin-
cipal characters a divorcee (Myrna
Dickey), her former husband (John Cope-
man), a Cockney valet (Bert Whitewood),
his pompous employer (Joseph Donnelly)
and a pair of half-caste hotel servants
(Telma Tabrett and Kevin Lynch). Con-
struction of the play bespeaks a prac-
tised hand. Character Nations are clear-
Philip Wirth, jun., a third-generation
ringmaster.
cut, the plot unfolds itself logically and
there is a neat curtain to each act.
Dialogue is amusing. Mr. Copeman’s
characterisation was outstanding. The
rest of the cast overacted in a misguided
attempt to turn a comedy of manners into
a rollicking farce. Gwen Sherwood was
producer.
4* *!*
Lost Or Just Overlooked?
Clifford Odets’s passion for reform is
given another airing in “Paradise Lost,”
produced by Brett Randall’s Savoy
players at Melbourne Princess. The
young American playwright has a grim
mind, and after his 24 characters have
strutted, slanged and “frustrated” for
three long acts most of those onlookers
who aren’t deaf feel like beer or vaude-
ville.
The theme, of course, is “the decay
of the middle class” ; the reviver, Com-
munism. Sensitive Leo Gordon, the hus-
band and father who is the central
character, loses everything he prizes—
except his wife —and graduates from an
air of injured bewilderment to the
triumphant conclusion that “no man
fights alone.” Curtain —and the feeling
that Odets took a long, long time to
convince one rather pathetic and futile
citizen that there may be hope and
beauty in anew social structure.
The Melbourne players do a fair
enough job, but the American idiom and
the Odets penchant for long mid-stage
orations hang on them rather sadly.
John Wiltshire plays the difficult Leo
Gordon role excellently, and succeeds in
conveying the belief that such people
exist. Edith Bell makes his wife the
almost normal character the playwright
evidently intended her to be ; but the one
real Odets concession to convention is
the true-to-the-life-we-know figure of old
Gus Michaels (well played by Norman
Swain), without whom it would be a
dreary show.
*l* 4- 4*
Wirth’s Circus.
The big tops that were planted in
Sydney back o’ Buckingham’s to catch
the Easter Show crowd have continued
to house nightly (and twice a week after-
noonly) crowds ever since. Moreover, the
elephants like the location, the only lady
gorilla in captivity has dried her tears,
and what with one thing and another the
old firm looks like occupying its present
stand for quite a while yet.
-I- -I* V V
A.B.C. Symphony Concert.
The A.B.C. Orchestra seems to have
a different conductor every time it ap-
pears in public. On Thursday night at
Sydney Town Hall the baton was in the
hand of Percy Code, who put the band
through Vaughan Williams’s “London
Symphony and some orchestral excerpts
from Mozart, Wagner and Srmetana in
a workmanlike manner. Vina Barnden,
of Adelaide, was soloist in a fair per-
formance of Saint-Saens’s G Minor Con-
certo, in which pianist and orchestra


f
EMIA
DEBILITY
WEAKNESS
NERVES
Of all the ailment 9 which affect
women and children, the worst so far
as sowing the seeds of weakness and
illhealth in later life is concerned, is
Anaemia.
Anaemia is an insidious disease in which the
blood becomes impoverished and deficient in
red corpuscles. It is associated with distressing
symptoms of weakness, depression, poor appetite
and nervous debility. In such conditions
Roboleine is the ideal preparation as in addition
to wonderful body and nerve building constitu-
ents. it contains Red and White bone marrow,
the richest blood making elements known to
Medical Science. After a few doses the red
corpuscles increase at an astonishing rate, the
appetite improves and soon all nervous fears
and depression vanish, indicating a speedy return
to normal health, and the capacity to enjoy life
to the full.
ROBQLE Nt
The best blood-making and
health restoring food
The Governor of the largest English hospital
said "The effect of Roboleine on anaemic
children has been magical".
Muir & Nell Ltd., 479 Kent Street,
Sydney. I enclose 3d. in stamps tor sample
of Roboleine.
Name ... -
Address...- 5.8.2.
.
Pill
in
i
■»x«* X'ScMXfii&tSSga»:-^*s
. . ;
;
HI
m
m
IDENTICAL WITH THE CIGARETTES ?
CHOSEN BY Mr. RICHARD CROOKS I
CUT THE FINEST MONEY CAN BUY
were nicely balanced. Silvia Bernita
sang an aria from “Lakme” pleasingly.
Her especial value to the A.B.C. seems
to be that she has a voice that is well
suited to radio transmission. It is not
very impressive on the concert platform.
•I*
“Whiteoaks.”
Hobart Rep. Soc. tackled De la
Roche’s “Whiteoaks,” and the casting
was excellent. Mrs. Goddard gave an
admirable study of the indomitable old
grandmother. K. Nicholson as Renny
and Robert Montgomery as the nerve-
tortured adolescent Finch were also out-
standing in a company well above the
average. Olive Wilton was the producer.
4* 4* -I* *r
“Lover’s Leap.”
This play by Philip Johnson, put on
at Adelaide Royal, is the true modern
London comedy: very short and cynical,
brisk dialogue like a tennis rally and
double-edged remarks such as that of
Sarah the engaged girl, “We first met
at the cricket week. We slept together—
through two matches.” Whether they
are to get married or “the other thing”
depends on her decision after watching
her sister Helen’s admitted failure of a
marriage. So Helen’s husband, coming
back unexpectedly, has to be cajoled into
pretending to be affectionate. Ending
obvious? Not at all, nowadays. The
necessary cynical twist at the close makes
Helen behave outrageously in an attack
of nerves, and sends the two men off,
as affectionate friends, to delve into
Egyptian tombs. “So I’m to be jilted
for a pyramid?” says Sarah ; and “I’m
not supposed to know the things that
I hope may happen to you!” Thus all
ends merrily, yet leaving a dubious taste.
Which, apparently, is Modernity.
In the tiny cast, Hori Thomas, as hus-
band, and old friend Guy blastings, as
butler, are sound. Helen the hysterical
and Sarah the hard-boiled have most of
the work ; Enid Hollins and Betty Tait
brilliantly make the actually incredible
women seem possible. Ken Tuckfield
is a discovery. His portrayal of the silly-
ass with inarticulate yearnings for higher
things is true art. And this is the youth
who lately played a Gielgud lead in
“Richard of Bordeaux”!
•b *b *b *b
Essie Acklar.d in Melbourne.
Essie Ackland, the Australian contralto,
brought back by the A.8.C., opened a
season at the Assembly Hall, Melbourne,
on Saturday with the assistance of
pianist Raymond Lambert and violinist
Ernest Llewellyn, while Frederic Earle
sat in the birdnest and operated the
miniature organ. Miss Ackland has all
the requirements for a particular kind
of concert programme. She has a lovely
voice, uses it with discretion and brings
out its full volume in a peculiarly effort-
less manner, so that her listeners think
less of the instrument than of the sounds
that emanate from it. If some of her
selections had not been of the wordy
kind beloved of most modern English
composers her performance would have
neared perfection. The most entrancing
of her numbers was “None but the
Lonely Heart” of Tschaikowsky, where
words and music are satisfactorily mar-
ried. Lambert was, as usual, an admir-
able accompanist, and his solo playing
and Llewellyn’s brought a number of
encores.
d*
Waiata Maori Choir.
The Waiata Maori Choir, which re-
turned to the Central Hall, Melbourne, on
Saturday, was billed as redolent of the
atmosphere of the Stone Age, but the
Stone Age and the Steel Age were, inex-
tricably mixed in the performance, and
the English language was used as freely
as the Maori and with an accent that
might be the envy of many Australian
scholars. There was an original chorus
mingling the two cultures, by a contem-
porary Maori composer of Wellington,
which was admirably tuneful and
sounded to this commentator quite as
distinguished as many modern European
compositions. The poi dance, which was
once permitted to be danced only by
chiefs’ daughters, was graceful, but an
average juggler at the Tivoli could have
bettered the twirling of the balls the
young damsels swung about them, and a
modern musical comedy producer could
have made the war dances more fero-
cious without much effort. The robes
worn by the singers looked lovely, but
the real primitivism of the Maori has to
stand comparison on the platform with
the pseudo-primitivism of such films as
“Show Boat” nowadays. It comes off
badly. One of these days some producer
will put a bit of pepper into the antique
Maori business. It will no longer by
Maori, but it will be more attractive
entertainment for the pakeha population.
CURRENT ARTBURSTS.
Hungarian Art in Sydney.
The collection of pictures by Hun-
garian artists brought to Sydney by
Joseph Kovesy, himself a painter of
distinction, is on exhibition at the Mac-
quarie Galleries. The canvases, framed
only in narrow border strips, are all of
about the same size and dimensions, and
there are so many of them that they
are perforce set very close together,
giving a sort of draughtboard effect in
which the boldest and most striking de-
signs stand out and quieter effects recede
so much that they risk being missed
altogether.
Though there is more diversity of style
and subject among the 30 painters rep-
resented than could be met with in
the exhibition of any Australian society,
the majority of the exhibits can claim one
merit in common —by reason of good
draughtsmanship, well-balanced com-
position and harmonious coloring they
make an immediate popular appeal.
Whether he is as broad an impressionist
as Naegli or as meticulous a copyist of
sheen and texture as the still-life master
Romek, the Hungarian artist is above all
things a pictorialist, not a propounder of
problems. If the weekly journals of
Budapest still deck their Christmas
numbers with oleographs in color their
art editors must be awed by the vast
field of suitable material available. It
may be—though the evidence is all
against the contention —that the highest
art is not contemporarily popular, and if
that is so the Hungarians must gather
their roses while they may, doomed to
severe reprehension in the judgment of
the public of a.d. 3000 as well as in that
of the higher critics of a.d. 1937. But in
the interests of the gaiety of the Aus-
tralian nation meanwhile it would be well
if some of its artists were encouraged
by such joyous essays in color as Naegli’s
Dalmatian and Italian impressions, Viz-
keleti’s market scene and Berke’s Paris
boulevard to overcome their inhibitions
and put on canvas more of the bright
lines and sunny atmosphere of the Aus-
tralian scene; if some of our figure-
painters were to emulate the good humor
and wonderful modelling of Kovesy in
such pictures as “Dancing Girl,” “Gipsy
Girl” and “Zulu Girl,” and if still-
lifers were to profit by the example of
Romek’s minute study of the relation of
light to metal and glass.
No doubt some of these Hungarian
pictures are as insincere as they are pretty
and as conventionalised as they are effec-
tive, but they still are pictures.
•b *b
Reputed Raphael in Horderns’ Gallery.
Now on exhibition in Anthony Hor-
derns’ Gallery, Sydney, is a large pen-
dawing of Madonna and Child, with
adoring female saint, which its owner
says has been ascribed to Raphael since
that artist’s day. The drawing has a long
and apparently well-authenticated history,
and the graceful sweep of the design and
the treatment of drapery lend color to the
claim. If a genuine Raphael the drawing
probably is the work of the artist’s young
manhood and should date circa 1510.
-I* -I* *l*
The Mountains of Victoria.
The blue tones of the Dandenongs
and distant Gippsland hills are at-
tractively caught in several of Norah
Gurdon’s 52 paintings at the Fine
Arts Gallery, Melbourne. Proceeds
are being donated by the artist to
the building fund of St. George’s
Intermediate Hospital. Miss Gurdon
loves the Australian mountains, and she
paints them well. There is an occasional
green-blue monotony in some of the
paintings, but there isn’t a Vic. land-
scape-painter who hasn’t recorded the
same characteristic in the Dandenongs.
The artist varies her show with some
pleasant seascapes and English country
views.
*r* 'l* •!*
Continental Colors.
One of the best shows Will Ashton,
recently appointed Director of the N.S.W.
Gallery, has given Melbourne was opened
at the Sedon Gallery last week. There
are paintings of Cornwall, Brittany,
Spain and Paris, and there is a gay
realism about nearly all of them. “Le
Vieux Pont, Sospel,” is typical of Ash-
ton’s best work ; it combines river, bridge
and bright hillside houses in a living
painting. “Winter Sunshine, St. Ives,
Cornwall,” is another lovely exhibit, with
water, boats and a stone jetty all delight-
fully captured.


to
a a 4
ess
S 4
of
tr’»P
tto\j
BoSl? ifes
Whether your visit to Sydney
be business or social stay at
the Wentworth. This fine hotel
offers you everything; comfort,
service, convenience. You will
enjoy your stay at the Went-
worth; wire or write for reser-
vations. Room and Breakfast,
12/6; Inclusive, 18/-.
WENTWORTH
HOTEL
SYDNEY. ’PHONE BW 1361
CD.MACLURCAN MNG. DIRECTOR
J. ,S. I-iEVY, .Manager.
THE AUSTRALIAN ART EXHIBITION
THE MACLEOD GALLERY,
Bulletin Buildings, 252 George Street
(Near Bridge Street)
Norman Lindsay’s Special Exhibition of Oil
Paintings, Water-colors, Pen Drawings and
Etchings early in May,
Tel.: 87971.
ADMISSION FREE.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
There were so many palms from vesti-
bule to stage at the United Service Ball
that Lord and Lady Wakehurst would
have been down on their first year’s in-
come if they had had to cross each with
silver —even a threepenny bit. Clustered
in almost motionless little groves they
broke the cold severity of the entrance
to the Town Hall. They rustled softly
about the pillars in the ballroom, up-
turned to the flags, the pennants and the
lifebuoys that festooned the gallery. On
the stage, in addition to palm and flower,
there were cannon to the right and
cannon to the left. When the vice-regal
group took up their position at the foot
of the platform, you wondered if they
felt a bit like the Light Brigade on the
verge of its charge.
For this, the first official appearance of
the new Governor and his lady, the. wives
and daughters of the Services had turned
out in frocks that glittered in silver and
gold. Crystal and pearl traced an ara-
besque on many frocks, and the swathed
sash and the shoulder scarf were graceful
finish to taffeta and chiffon. The grand
entry of the vice-regals was made towards
10 o’clock, to the spirited accompaniment
of the R.A.A. band in their bright red
uniforms. Lady Wakehurst’s Coronation-
purple chiffons were slimly cut. The
frock, cut low at the back, had a cross-
over bodice, a long train and full
shoulder drapes. From her ears swung
long diamond pendants. She wore her
famous pearls.
In the Government House group were
Hermione Llewellyn (the dark-haired
private secretary to Lady Wakehurst),
Captain Harding, Blake Pelly and Lieut.
Lawrence. The Institution’s deputy-
president, Colonel Spain, with Mrs.
Spain, received the guests. Mrs. Spain,
whose black brocades gleamed with
diamente, gave the vice-reine a sheaf of
roses of deep dark red. Later she pre-
sented the two white-clad debs.: Margot
Vickers, who comes all the way from
Connecticut in U.S.A. and thinks Sydney
is a lovely place, and Phyllis Grill, of
Waverley. For a first introduction to
social Sydney the State’s new Governor
and his lady could not have taken part in
a more friendly, a more smoothly carried
out function.
Mayor Howie was among the happy
throng; Mayoress Parkes swung a cape
lined with blue on her Coronation-gold
satins. Brigadiers and majors occurred
at regular intervals, the J. L. Hardies, the
I. G. Mackays, the Gordon Bennetts
among them. Mrs. Hardie’s bouffant
frock of stiffened black net wore a great
cluster of violets. The Town Clerk’s
Mrs. Hendy swirled black chiffon. Mrs.
G. Scott, who came with her captain, had
a long train with her deep-blue frock.
That happy group the Lorenzos, the Pat
Manleys, the Keith Morris and the Keith
Baker couples came on from the
Lorenzos’ dinner party at the Kirribilli
Yacht Club. Mrs. Manley’s hyacinth-
blue moire had delicate tracings of
crystal, and its peplum was flared. Mrs.
Lorenzo’s black velvet glittered with
sequins. Velvet sleek as a seal made Mrs.
Keith Morris’s frock, which also had
sequins sifted over it. One of this party
was Sir Standish Roache, A.D.C. to
Maoriland’s Governor, now on a visit
to Sydney.
If you were born social, or are merely
headed in that direction, you went to the
fete in aid of the Sydney Day Nurseries
on Saturday afternoon. The pleasant
gardens of Elaine, the Hubert Fairfax
home, were set about with bright stalls
piled with attractions, and Lady Wake-
hurst arrived punctually to declare the
fair open. Her black toque had red-
and-gold bows nesting on its crown. Her
parchment silk frock was flower-pat-
terned. Lord Wakehurst supported his
lady, and small sons Christopher and
David came along to enjoy the fun.
Hermione Llewellyn and Blake Pelly,
A.D.C., were in the vice-regal train. The
Mungo MacCallum lady, Archbishop
Mowll and his wife, the Premier Stevens
couple, Mayoress Parkes and Mrs.
Hubert Fairfax were in the official group.
Stephanie Edye has been an apt and
earnest pupil of Brunelleschi. At her
recital, given to a sold-to-the-last-seat
Con. on Saturday afternoon, the slim,
dark girl was a romantic and vivid
figure in her Spanish dances. In her
first number she expressed the dignity
of courtly Spain in a frock of blue
moire, swaying and full and edged with
alternate flounces of silver lace and the
blue moire. For her later numbers an
unusual frock of black taffeta that ran
to a slightly peacock train of frills lined
with bright green and carrying a large
coin-spot of the same hue swirled and
whirled as Stephanie danced the tender
Gitana and the more brilliant tango.
This is the Bellevue Hill girl’s eighth
yearly recital for the Far West Health
Scheme. Pianist Jessica Chard, whose
keyboard technique combined power and
sensitive expression, and Paul Furniss’s
play “Behind the Curtain” were the
supporting items.
Lynne Golding, the ’teen-old in this
picture, is a member of the clever ballet
from “Hassan” which will be a feature
of the Coronation matinee in aid of the
Elizabeth Kenny clinic. Lynne, a pupil
of Jan Kowskey, danced as extra with
the Russian Ballet during its Sydney
season, and won commendation from
Arnold Haskell. The matinee pro-
gramme is chock-full of good things,
including the singing of Gladys Mon-
crieff, a sketch by Noel Coward and
other star events. May 6is the date.
The Savoy was packed to the doors
last Saturday for the Australian play
night, presented by the Players’ Club.
From the front row, where John Lane
Mullins and Dr. Temple Smith sat with
their parties, the theatre was filled with
well-knowns. The Bertie Kellys brought
a group ; Oswald Cheeke reserved almost
two rows for himself and friends. Lute
Drummond and sister Mrs. Ainsworth
brought white satin frocks and fox furs.
Mrs. David Knox made, a bright splash
with her hibiscus-red waist-length moire
coat. Mrs. Theophilus was slim and fair
in black.
Knight John McKelvey and his lady
came with friends. J. J. Mulligan, the
Harry Budges, Windeyer, K.C., Evelyn
Tildesley, artist Dora Jarrett, Ruby
Adams wrapped in a deep fox cape,
Grace Scobie, groups from the Women
Pioneers, the Kretschmann, the Forum
and the Women’s clubs, Mrs. Walter Bur-
fitt, Florence Bennett, the Greg.
McGirrs, Mrs. J. Moreing and the
Walter Swinsons were among the
glimpsed. Mrs. Sterling Levis, author of
“The Spirit Host,” the opening play of
the evening, wore a lame tunic that glit-
tered blue and silver with a long black
satin skirt. She took her curtain call
carrying a large bunch of yellow roses
tied with emerald ribbons. Nora Kelly,
writer of “Half-way to Paradise,” wore
black and gold.
When Nancy Jobson, principal of
Hopewood House, set out to write a
Pageant of Empire, she let neither time
nor space intimidate her. The result is
a colorful and vivid picture of the Em-
pire and its people and their ways. Halt
of Sydney’s attractive girls seemed to be
busy at rehearsals last week. This Letter
liked the shells and hibiscus attire as
much as any. Falkland Islanders, Ocean
Islanders and South Sea Islanders off the
set hobnobbed with stateliness that re-
presented England, Ireland and Aus-
tralia. Ben Lewin is the producer, and
Mrs. Sterling Levis is sifting-in artistic
suggestions. Dr. Bainton is directing
the music, and Clement Hosking the
Folk-song Choir. The whole is to be
staged at the Con. for a season starting
on April 29. The Barnardo Homes will
benefit.
Roy de Mestre, who left Australia on
a Society of Artists’ travelling scholar-
ship, has, since making his home some-
times in France, sometimes in England,
become Roy de Maistre. This, however,
in no way alters his color sense, which is
as fresh as when he had his studio in
Little George-street. In those days the
artist was trying a scheme of harmonising
color as sound is harmonised. With
Roland Wakelin he had a show in Gay-
field Shaw’s gallery that was at least an
interesting experiment. To his friends
the Rodney Dangars Roy has sent a
loan exhibition of his recent paintings.
This will be opened at the Industrial
Arts Society’s rooms to-day (Wednes-
day) by Roland Wakelin.
The wife of Britain’s High Commis-
sioner Geoffrey Whiskard, who is one of
Canberra’s noted hostesses. Dorothy
Welding photograph.
Friends going down to the Orford to
say good-bye to Mrs. Dettmann will find
a note on her cabin door telling them in
what corner of the lounge to find her.
The traveller has decided on this plan
to save the usual hurry-scurry, hide-and-
seek game that is played when steamers
put to sea. Mrs. Dettmann travels to
England to join student daughter Denise.
While Denise is in Sweden on vacation
mother will tour France and Belgium and
probably Italy. Last Thursday morning,
in spite of driving rain, the drawing-room
of the Queen’s Club was crowded with
friends from every suburb between
Killara and Darling Point, who had come
to drink a parting cup. The flowers,
great single dahlias, glowed softly pink.
Mrs. Dettmann wore a trig tailored coat
of brown grosgrain over a beflowered
silk frock. Her shoulder-posy was a
great purple orchid. Flowers and gifts
for the traveller arrived in impressive
numbers.
It is to be hoped that Lotte Lehmann,
who lifts her golden voice in Sydney
this week, will not wear all her decora-
tions at one go. Otherwise the gossip
writers will never be able to record how
the front of her frock is made. Lotte
is said to have had more honors con-
ferred on her than any other woman
singer of our times. France (although
the singer is an Austrian) handsomely
weighed in with the Legion of Honor.
Not too many women have this distinc-
tion, and no other songstress. Sweden,
not to be behindhand, bestowed on her
its coveted Medal of Art. The Vienna
Philharmonic Orchestra encircled her
finger with the Ring of Honor. She’s
the only woman thus bedecked. As for
the U.S.A., Lotte has been made an
honorary member of almost all its
learned and cultured women’s societies.
The Musical Association got in early
with its welcome, which brought the
musically-minded in cohorts to Farmer’s
last night.
To have 80 cases of china, Waterford
glass and antique furniture packed at
Folkestone and shipped and delivered in
Sydney without a chip off the china or
a scratch on the mahogany has been the
luck of Oswald Cheeke. His flat at
Darling Point (it’s the one the E. J.
Taits lived in before their move to Buck
hurst) shelters the articles. By post, proof
that it had done its job, the packing
firm sent photographs of the cases ready
for sending away and another of them
loaded on the trucks.
Victoria Leaguers are farewelling
Padre Micklem and his wife this after-
noon (Wednesday) at the Forum Club.
The two go off to England. The rever-
end doctor was a member of the first
executive committee of this State’s Vic-
toria League, and has been a vice-presi-
dent for many years.
“Fighting Mac” (Salvation Army’s
Commissioner McKenzie) will leave to-
day (Wednesday) with his wife in the
Taiping for China, where, before coming
to Sydney by way of Melbourne, they
carried on in Army work for some years.
The N.C.W. and other women’s societies
farewelled Mrs. McKenzie. The lady of
the bonnet had become a well-liked not-
able in the city’s welfare movements.
Among parting gifts to her was a beauti-
fully carved model ship, the work of an
aborigine. Accompanied by many
flowers, it was presented to the depart-
ing one at the afternoon tea-drinking
given in her honor by the Home League
of the S.A.
One of the dangers of sea travel is
table companions. To draw a witty and
companionable one happens so seldom
that whoever has Mrs. Greg McGirr for
neighbor during the next voyage of the
Orford will be envied. Among her other
farewells last week was an afternoon
party given by the hospital visiting com-
mittee of the Catholic Women’s Asso-
ciation. Miss Kate Egan was the
hostess, and presented the guest with an
armful of yellow roses. Mrs. McGirr
(who drew an 0.8. E. in the New Year’s
Honors list) and her daughters Rachel,
Trix and Nonna will arrive in London
in time for the first investiture in June.
Richmond adds its quota to the party
spirit. Last week the R.A.A.F. was at-
home, and many cars motored from
Sydney in response to cards sent out by
the Group-Commander Coles and the
R.A.A.F. officers. This was a round-off
of the inter-service sports meeting, so
there were lots of Air Force blue, a dash
of navy and a good deal of khaki among
the groups. Mayoress Parkes and hus-
band were visitors from town. Her suit,
hat and handbag were in tones of brown.
Mrs. Cole was very trig in black-and-
white. The Mayor of Richmond and his
wife were lookers-on. The Sam Walder
lady wore grey. The Malcolm Mackel-
lars, who live near by, were there ; her
tailored suit was blue-grey, with which
her small velour hat toned. The Hugh
Poynters brought daughter Jocelyn.
When Mrs. Alec Tweedie, that much-
travelled lady, arrived in Sydney last
November her bathroom in the ship was
filled with W.A. and S.A. wildflowers and
she was feverishly painting the fragile
beauties before they faded away. The
result of this activity and of a day’s
sketching in the Blue Mountains will be
on view in the Redfern Galleries in Lon-
don midway through next month. Critics
say that the artist has caught the delicate
beauty of our bushland flowers. Even a
spell of ill-health on the return voyage,
which caused her to leave the ship and
recuperate at Gib., evidently put no stop
to her vigor.
The Wentworth, on Church Hill, has
decided to go modern. Three new stories
are to be added to one wing. Each bed-
room will have its own bathroom, and
the ballroom is to be remodelled.


m
■
M
iwm
■
\
*55
' 7. M
&S
mm
•m? f
■
iff
1
M’
me
MUTUA
s>hvK
«*$S
Do you know
> \r*
that The National Mutual was the first Life
Office in the world to introduce the nonforfeiture
principle into Life Assurance, thus saving
many thousands of policies from lapsing. ?
Policyholders share all profits—
there are NO shareholders.
0
All classes of “Ordinary” Life Assurance effected . . . including Probate,
Family Income, and Group Assurance.
Write for any quotation—
THE
NATIONAL MUTUAL
LIFE ASSOCIATION OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.
Established 1869.
Offices:
350 George Street, Sydney
395 Collins Street, Melbourne.
And throughout Australia, New Zealand, Great Britain, India, Ceylon, South Africa and Straits Settlements.
ASSURANCES IN FORCE
£115,000,000


BRANDAUERS
m
PENS
Every point
guaranteed —
do not experiment with imitations.
C. BRANDABEB * CO* Ltd.. BIRMINGHAM. ENG
Corns Sentenced to Death .
Corns have worried you—now worry them:
although “worry” is hardly the word, for
A’CORN SILK does not trifle with corns, but
ruthlessly kills them. How comfortable your
feet feel aLer A’CORN SILK has removed
all your soft or hard corns —a 6d. packet will
do this for you without pain or inconvenience.
Corns are killed while you sleep—a matter of
a few hours. Chemists sell A’CORN SILK at
6d. per packet. Packed by Felton, Grimwade
and Duerdins, Ltd., Melbourne.
Bartz— Salts of the Earth
Drugs are only a temporary relief, but BARTZ,
the IMPROVED MINERAL SPRING TONIC
SALTS, is Nature’s own remedy for excessive
fat, headaches, rheumatic pains, sleeplessness,
giddiness, high blood pressure, constipation, etc.
Obtainable all Chemists and Stores, price
1/- and 2/-, or direct post free. Cheaper and
better. Sole distributors,
British Colonial & Eastern Chemicals, Etd.,
65-69 York Street, Sydney. ’Blione: 8W6661.
Public Notice.
o ANISH Loneliness by joining Betta Brights
D Social Correspondence Bureau. Individual
attention —select clientele. Write or ca .
72 Pitt Street, Sydney.
lad 3DW~HIVIf77y~J7t(rHO
wisnmwM
M/fflnm//9/BJfuovm<n/>oj/s
amfflMNwm
Melbourne
Chatter
For the. Alfred Hospital gymkhana it
was perfect golfing weather, with a cool
breeze and grey skies in the morning
dispersed by sunshine after lunch. There
were nearly 400 entries for mixed and
women’s foursomes, and, with the addi-
tion of donations, money from produce-,
flower- and cake-stalls on the clubhouse
verandah, lucky dips and chocolate-
wheels, and asides like putting and
approaching, the cheque for the hospital
was £250. Organisation was such that
there was little congestion in the big
field ; its head got away at breakfast-
time and its tail was home before dark.
In the very last' wag of the tail were
George Naismith and Dora Pakes (Dora
plays at Riversdale and is a recent arrival
on the golf horizon), who surprised the
runners-up, W. Davis and Mrs. Cliff
Ormiston, with a nice-looking card of
66 net. Mrs. R. P. Minifie and Mrs. C.
McKay won the women’s event from
Kath Grant-Hay and Vallie Woodside
and Mrs. Snellgrove and Miss Booth, two
pairs who were only a stroke behind.
Among other couples competing were the
Bob Schlesingers (Bob still prefers
tennis), newly-engaged couple Elaine
Lucas and C. Cameron (from Geelong),
Joan Lewis and Betty Kernot (playing
from a handicap of four), Mrs. Sloan
Morpeth and Nell Hutton.
Feet are a very important part of a
golfer’s anatomy, which is why two of
Melbourne’s women champions have
been having pieces of bone re-
moved from the joints of their big
toes during the off-season. Queens-
land player Mrs. Gardiner, who has
steered daughter Janet to many victories
in championship foursomes on Brisbane
links, is at present in Melbourne con-
valescing after hospital treatment, and
so is Mrs. Enos Shaw, champion of
Kingston Heath Club and 1935 runner
up for the Victoria title.
Howard Barrett, superintendent of the
Children’s Hospital, which received £250
the other day as a result of the gym-
khana at Riversdale Club, has been
elected captain of that club. Used to
system, Howard has always chafed at
the delays in starting a big field on
weekly competition days. For the next
year he will no longer play patience at
the tee if he uses the captain’s pre-
rogative of going through the field. His
son Howard plays senior pennant for
the club, and daughter Betty, when not
winning handicap foursomes events, does
a lot of voluntary hospital work.
Holing out in one isn’t the thrill it
used to be. Some of the perks that went
with it have been abolished, but the feat
is no longer a great expense for the
player. On Saturday afternoon at Albert
Park Ken Macpherson did the feat at
the ninth. In accordance with the club’s
new resolution the bottle placed on the
table was provided by the club, not by
the recipient of congratulations.
In connection with the Xavier fete
there happened “Laughter Through the
Ages,” a pageant of comedy and satire
written and produced by Paul O’Lough-
lin and Ray Triado, “two traitors, hav-
ing broken all the rules of the Holly-
wood directors’ union.” Bob Cogswell
was stage manager as well as a monk,
and Betty Triado helped a lot as general
sec. The effect was generally heightened
with sketches on the programme exe-
cuted by John Parry, whose sense of
humor takes liberties with Latin and
Greek and the dignified characters of
history. The pageant started with a
fairly amicable meeting between Charon
and Mercury. Then came Dionysius
and his devotees; Vaughan Kelly with
hydrangeas in his hair as Bacchus ; a few
slaves; Mary Peppard as Proserpine;
some votaries; a highbrow,
and Euripides, a low dog ; a batch of
goddesses; Joan Cornforth as Aphro-
dite ; Cato, who went on a drinking bout
with Charon; Deus X. Machina (i.e.,
an odd-job god), Kevin Crosbie; a
marathon miser, Frank Moore ; and a
trundling transport, played by a spat-
tered wheelbarrow.
Following on many Romans and a
Christian-eating lion who became vege-
tarian, came dark and dismal days and
wet week-ends with the Barbarians,
some jumps among the Middle Ages and
a slight adjustment so that Satan, Vice
and the Noah family could get to know
one another. Alister McLean was Noah,
navigating his ark with the aid of a
police whistle. The college lads per-
formed a Shakspearean interlude with
credit, Roma Rainford, Mary Neylon
and John Mornane being part of the
background. On the heels of Don
Quixote, who had a horse for the after-
noon session held on the lawn outside,
there came a number of well-knowns,
respectable and otherwise, from the
seventeenth and eighteenth centuries, a
glimpse of Drury-lane in the fifties of
last century and excerpts from “The
Pirates of Penzance” by the schoolboys.
The finale was a Victorian burlesque,
John Parry with his concertina and Ray
Triado in “On the Halls.” In the chorus
of “old boys” with waxed whiskers,
flowing stocks, velvet coats, etc., who
jumped and bumped through an ancient
ditty called “Old Times Sake,” were
Gerald Crosbie, Ted McCauley, B.
Slaweski, Johnnie Clarebrough, Sam
Marron and Dr. H. S. Forrest. They
all had a good time, and went home very
late in high good humor.
“Life would be more pleasant if we all
drank a little wine every day. Wine is
not an offence, should not be a luxury,
and is infinitely better for the system
than tea.” Such are the sentiments of
the president of the Wine and Food
Society, Francois de Castella, who spoke
at the Prince of Wales Hotel, St. Kilda,
when the society entertained itself and,
for the first time, the wives of members
at an annual dinner. To the women
present the president also tactfully im-
parted the information that no tin-
opener had been used as a preparation
for the meal they were eating. The
society styles itself “an academy of gas-
tronomic arts,” but its principal aim is
to boost Australian products. The
sherry and port used at the dinner came
from Rutherglen, and the claret and
chablis from the Hunter River. The
menu included such interesting dishes as
rock-ling simmered in white wine and
duckling cooked with red wine.
Although Norma Simpson has com-
pleted an arts course and had her degree
conferred at the recent Commencement,
she has not finished with study and hopes
to become a Bachelor of Education two
years hence. Norma is the daughter of
Mrs. M. Simpson, of Bendigo, and she
went to school at Girton, C. of E. Girls’
Grammar School in Bendigo. Broothorn
photograph.
Twenty years ago, when his daughter
Peggy was a baby, Cecil Le Plastrier ac-
quired three magnums of champagne.
So magnificent were they that he put
them away with the vague idea that they
would come in useful some day for
Peggy’s wedding. But 20 years is a long
time. Two magnums were stolen, so
there was only one left to have its neck
tied up with white satin ribbon last
week when Peggy married Brian Bre-
heny. Her gown was of blue-grey
crinkled chiffon, accompanied by a tiny
peaked hat of the same chiffon and a
grey bag to which gardenias were at-
tached. Her father gave the bride away,
Vincent Breheny was best man, and his
sister Kathleen was a lone ’maid in nut-
brown frock and hat. The bride’s step-
mother has a gift for arranging flowers,
and for the late-afternoon reception her
lounge and dining-room were glowing
with great bowls of chrysanthemums,
dahlias, lilies and autumn leaves.
Speeches were pruned to a minimum,
but the ’groom, although he has had
little experience (he’s been best man only
once), made his a worthy effort. The
honeymooners motored to Adelaide, and
when they return at the end of this
week their wedding presents and the
antique furniture they have been col-
lecting since their engagement will have
been unpacked and arranged at their flat
in Canberra-avenue, Toorak, by Mrs. M.
A. Breheny and Mrs. Le Plastrier.
A great-granddaughter of John Bat-
man, Mrs. F. C. Searle, of Sandringham
(Vic.), carried on the gardening traditions
of the family by growing the champion
bloom of the National Rose Society’s
(Melb.) show last week. Mrs. Searle’s
father was Austin Batman Weir, a son
of Elizabeth, daughter of John Batman.
John’s only son was drowned at 14 in
the Yarra, too young to know that his
father was one of the founders of the
second city of the Commonwealth.
Mile. Berthe Matis was photographed
by Broothorn on the day she received
disquieting news from Paris, but she has
the philosophy of her native country and
can smile in the face of adversity.
Mademoiselle believes that her bank is
“temporarily embarrassed.” Still, she
says that “if the money is gone it’s gone
and there’s no use in worrying about it.”
She sails for the Paris Exposition in the
Orford on April 27. This trip, on which
she will act as courier for a party of
Australians, will make, her fifth visit to
France since she came to this country
14 years ago.
Isaac Isaacs and his lady, who will
spend the winter in the flat they have
taken at Laradoc, Walsh-street, South
Yarra, have recently had several small-
ish parties, diners, luncheons, teas and
bridge at their charming old home, Mar-
nanie, at Macedon. During a recent
week-end, when their daughter, Mrs.
Sefton Cullen, of Bowral, and Mile.
Matis were at Marnanie, French was
spoken almost continuously, for the
Isaacs family are good linguists. The
Isaacs lady had intended visiting the
Paris Exposition, but at the last moment
was too much of a devoted wife to
leave her husband behind. He for his
part has finished with travelling, and is
quite content with what Australia offers
and with the lovely old garden at Mar-
nanie, where there is room for natural
bushland as well as flower-beds and ter-
races of English trees. Hydrangeas are
still blooming there profusely in spite of
the frosty finger that in the early morn-
ings whitens the grass alongside the
creek. Although they have lived for
long periods in other places, Marnanie
has spelt home to the Isaacs family for
the last 35 years.
Visitors from Malakand, N.W.F.P.,
India, are Major and Mrs. Reginald Nye,
who will continue their round-the-world
journey this week with a few days at
Buffalo and Sydney on the way to M.L.,
through Canada and so to England,
where most of their leave will be spent.
The Nyes live in a genuine outpost of
Empire. The gates of the Malakand fort
are shut at sundown, and there are only
about half a dozen white women among
its inhabitants. Major Nye shook the
self-complacency of Melbourne by dis-
embarking in a Nabob gown, brown with
occasional embroideries ; Anglo-Indians
are fond of these garments, which they
use instead of overcoats. The Major
spent his first afternoon in Victoria eat-
ing an enormous Devonshire tea at War-
randyte and feeling a much better man
for the first square meal he had had
since leaving India. On the voyage he
contracted a tropical illness, and starved
himself until he saw a Melbourne
specialist, who changed the course of
treatment'.
A hat-shop proprietor who designs
some of the hats he sells is meditating
•on a millinery boomerang. He made a
hat for La Meri to wear in one of her
bolero dances. Shaped like the lid of
a teapot it had a tight bunch of flowers
under the rolled brim. Laura Mollica
liked it so much that La Meri gave it to
her for a wedding present. Mrs. D. V.
Newcomer, of 57th-avenue, New York,
saw Laura wearing the hat, and so
admired it that Archie Longden ordered
a twin from the milliner and sent it off
to the U.S.A. as a present for Mrs. New-
comer on her arrival home. Her friends
must have credited Australia with ad-
vance information on fashions, for
bolero hats have, since flooded the
market', and every box the Melbourne
milliner-designer opens from abroad
contains at least one replica in size, shape
and color of what he “created” six
months ago.
Mrs. Warne Nicholls is leaving next
week in the Monterey for her home in
Fiji via what she estimates will be her
seventieth crossing of the Tasman, for
she comes to Australia every year and
visited M.L. several times before she was
married. Her youngest son Timmy won’t
be down to see his mother off, for he
is still in Caulfield Hospital as a result
of an accident to his foot while, in camp
at Seymour. John, who is 21, has
finished his five years with the C.S.R.
Co. in Fiji, and has just commenced an
engineering job with the same co. in
Sydney. Len is following his father’s
footsteps by managing a sugar planta-
tion, and Dove, who became Mrs. John
Potts a couple of years ago, also lives
in Fiji, only 50 miles away from her
parents.
When Rabbi Brodie, as popular as
he is learned, was farewelled by Mel-
bourne’s Hebrew congregation in St.
Kilda Town Hall the young men’s group
(of which he is the founder) produced
a surprise in the form of a film with the
guest of honor and his activities as the
chief interest. The finale was a steamer
smoking over the horizon, serving to sug-
gest the Rabbi departing from Australia
after 14 years. He is planning to live
at Oxford for two years and study for
the degree of Doctor of Literature.
Rabbi Brodie is English and unmarried.
He is fond of music, and has such a
fine voice that if religion had not claimed
him he would probably have been suc-
cessful in opera.
The Sverre Lie couple, now in Japan,
write that they are leaving at the end of
April for Europe via Siberia —a mono-
tonous journey but interesting the first
time. Mrs. Lie’s sister, Mrs. Capie
Thomson, is leaving Melbourne next
week for New Guinea, where her home
is reached by a 15 minutes’ ’plane trip
from Wau, then two hours’ walk, climb
and swing over native bridges. When
Mrs. Thomson’s parents, the. Phil Jacobs
couple, went to New Guinea they were
not up to facing the slithery mountain
tracks and bamboo bridges, so Wau was
the closest they got to their daughter s
home.
Gossip in London shuttles between
Coronation pomps and ceremonies and
foreign politics. For the Coronation
ceremony in Westminster Abbey duch-
esses, regardless of their measurements,
are being allowed an extra inch. 19m.
instead of the regulation 18in. of seat-
room. London looks like a street lair
with jerry-built stands everywhere block-
ing both vehicular and pedestrian traffic.


The Union Trustee Company of Australia, Ltd.
(Incorporated in Victoria.)
2 O’CONNELL STREET
SYDNEY
ACTS AS
Executor, Trustee, Administrator, Attorney, Etc.
(Established 1885.)
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE AND TOWNSVILLE.
Amongst the advantages derived:—
The Company never dies, never leaves the State, and is always available.
ABSOLUTE SECURITY, EXPERT & ECONOMICAL SERVICE.
F. E. Bryant
Sir Graham
N.S.W. DIRECTORS:
(Chairman); Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, K.8.E., M.L.C. (Vice-Chairman)
Waddell 1v.8.E.; .Tames Kidd; W. H. Mackay; .T. Beresford Grant
Colin A Sinclair. Manager: J. G. 11. Shipway.
WRITE OR CALL FOR FREE EXPLANATORY BOOKLET.)
The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
Fire, Marine and Accident insurances
effected at Lowest Current Rates
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims.
BRANCHES IN ALL STATES.
’Phone (three lines): 87361.
li. RAWXSLEV MOSS, Chairman.
129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
K. A. MANZIE, General Manager.
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
“Dungeness”: Those “recent dis-
coveries” of well-organised base camps
for pearl-poachers on the Arnhem Land
coast and at Guribah Island, 400 miles
or so east of Darwin, are old stuff. Cap-
tain Gregory has told how white pearlers
have for the last two years and more
been trying to make the Government at
Canberra realise the position. All requi-
site facts, figures and details for putting
an immediate stop to illegal landing and
poaching in territorial waters were sup-
plied long ago without result. Captain
Gregory declares that a Japanese fleet
of 100 vessels with modern equipment
could—and probably will—clean up
every pearl-bed in the Arafura Sea within
two years.
* * * *
“Motu”: Figures issued by the Papuan
Administration show that over a period
of years £262,000 has been collected from
the Papuan native. Of this £91,000
has been spent on educating him so that
he will be more amenable to being taxed,
and £93,000 has been handed over to
various missions which teach him to
turn the other cheek when the tax-col-
lector calls, instead of hanging another
head outside the man-house. A further
£26,000 has gone to the missions for
medical work to keep the taxpayers alive
as long as possible, and anthropologists
have had £15,000. After these needs
were met £19,000 was passed out as
family bonus (to encourage the breeding
of more taxpayers, presumably). There
was still a bit left over ; here’s how it
was spent:
To encouragement of thrift among
natives £2 10 0
* * *
“Billy Fowlhouse”: That pfeller Mary
blong Murray Islan plenty more she
savvy than white Mary, altogether she
savvy too much along catchum picca-
ninny. White Mary she start catchum,
she no savvy first time what kind he
come out. Spose he come out boy, she
wantum Mary, big row she make along
man blong her. Mary blong Murray
Islan spose she wantum boy piccaninny
she kaikai that pfeller aloop, him beef
blong bailer shell, plenty aloop she kai-
kai, all time boy piccaninny he come out.
Spose that Mary wantum Mary picca-
ninny she no kaikai aloop, she kaikai
toomee, beef blong big pfeller kilam. too
much big pfeller him, live along reef.
Plenty toomee she kaikai, Mary picca-
ninny she come out all time. You teilum
white Mary wantum boy piccaninny
wantum Mary piccaninny come along
Murray Islan kaikai aloop kaikai too-
mee; then no more make row man blong
her.
* * * *
“Scrofa”: Recent Queensland acquire-
ments by William Angliss and H. T.
Sanderson point to early and active ex-
pansion of the chilled-beef industry.
Queensland supplies seven-eighths of the
total Australian export beef. But herd
improvement, scientific feeding and
faster shipping services will be needed
if our chilled-beef export industry
(311,000 quarters last year) is to develop
as, in the national interests, it should.
# * *
“M. Turlutu”: The outer-harbor
scheme at Mackay (N.Q.) is being re-
vived from the trance into which it fell
last July with the cancellation of the
main contract. Until tenders are re-
ceived on April 26 approximate cost will
not be known. The original scheme was
to cost £905,252; expenditure, so far,
has been £380,850 for less than half of
one wall and a pier approach. Contracts
are let for £265,000 or so for more pier
work. At a rough estimate completed
cost will be round £1,500,000 —and then
inter-State and overseas ships will com-
pete more successfully with Queensland’s
already bankrupt railways in handling
sugar, a product about to receive a sharp
setback so far as export is concerned.
And it all could have been done far
better, for a quarter of the money, at
Bowen’s magnificent natural harbor, less
than 100 miles north. But with a
Premier to represent it Mackay expects
a lot.
* * * *
“Bullant”: Deputy Premier Pease
has shown himself to be a sound critic
of public oratory. After hearing a pre-
liminary dictaphone run-over of a forth-
coming broadcast, he remarked: “An
interesting address —I listened to it with
the greatest interest.” It was his own.
Mr. Pease it was who once described
himself to an entranced Parliament as
the best Minister of Lands that Queens-
land ever had.
* :j; * t-
“P.B.”: An abo. charged at Darwin
with smoking opium was sentenced to
12 months in Fanny Bay gaol. From
association with Chinese he had learned
the meaning of “no sabby,” and he “no
sabbied” on this occasion. “He doesn’t
‘sabby’ months,” Sergeant Bridgeland
explained, “but he understands the
seasons.” Then he interpreted: “Wet
season now, you go Fanny Bay. Knock-
um-down grass rains come and bushfires
“Want a lift! W’y, y' c'd Walk faster than I'm goin '!”
“ Don't you Worry, Dig.—you ain't seen us Walk."
burn up grass; you still Fanny Bay.
Then dry season, then wet season again ;
you still Fanny Bay. After knockum-
down rains come you come out and go
walkalong.” Accused grinned broadly.
He had “sabbied.”
* ■* * *
“Curate’s Egg”: Capable seaman as
he is, the Torres Strait Binghi seems in-
capable of building the long, graceful
outrigger canoes which he sails so skil-
fully the catamarans, not the un-
wieldly craft built by the Cape York
mainlander. Construction of the grace-
ful outrigger seems to have been the
closely guarded preserve of natives of the
Upper Fly, Papua, who traded the craft
in exchange for goods. The fact that these
very craft would be used as war vessels
against their vendors has never pre-
vented commerce, in which Binghi ante-
dates his European brothers in their
armament deals.
* % * *
“Kwakprak”: Looking at the new
traffic lights of red, green and yellow
recently installed in Queensland streets,
it occurred to me that they won’t work
with those who suffer from the not-
uncommon condition of color-blindness
known as Daltonism. Such folk cannot
distinguish between red and green, and
quite often they grow to adult years
without knowing it. Many a sea-career
has been cut short through color-blind-
ness, and many a good railway man side-
tracked into minor employment. An
appreciable proportion of traffic acci-
dents in cities which use this method of
controlling drivers and pedestrians alike
must be due to it, or to other obscure
eye defects. It was only after two seri-
ous smashes that a friend of mine dis-
covered that he was the unwitting victim
of night-blindness, unable to make out
anything outside ihe actual range of his
headlights.
- . .. , in D „
Australia Jan© S DUaCJCT
In October, 1887, Lady Musgrave
opened the Queensland Horticultural
Society’s first show. The jubilee show
was opened by I.ady Wilson. She wore
grey chiffon drapings and a black hat,
and was presented with a bunch of pink
Radiance roses tied with blue ribbons,
Dr. D. A. Herbert, the president, and
S. B. Watkins, a member of the council,
and their wives were on the platform.
S. B. Watkins is a son of George Wat-
kins, a foundation member of the
society, who was one of the first men
in Brisbane to grow and show blooms
of the hybrid cannas which now flower
in every suburban garden. Small red
and yellow flowers were the only sort
of bloom the canna could produce 50
years ago.
In July teams from all the States and
from Britain will be in Brisbane to play
hockey. To raise funds for their enter-
tainment an All Nations Fair was held
in All Saints’ Hall, and hockey girls with
crossed sticks welcomed Mrs. Forgan
Smith, who came with Freda Bage. Mrs.
S. E. Travill planned the thing.
Evelyn Twomey, who is to marry Jim
Josephson soon, was entertained at a
party given by Mrs. I. Josephson and
daughters Mary and Peggy. There were
flowers for all the guests, and a bride
doll, frocked in real rose petals, for
Evelyn.
W.E.A. is to stage “And So to Bed”
in May. Furniture is being made to
get the correct atmosphere. George
Eaton is producing, and Edgar Fergu-
son is to play Charles 11.
A Naval, Military and Air Force
Ball is to be held in the City Hall on
May 12. The committee is composed
entirely of men. Mrs. J. L. Witham
will present debs, to Sir Leslie and Lady
Wilson —it will be their last public ap-
pearance before their departure for
England.
Dorothy Halley and Beryl Crawford,
two of the ’maids who attended Maida
Coxen when she married Harold Craw-
ford, had a pre-tea at Rowe’s for her.
The knot was tied at St. John’s Cathe-
dral, and Major H. C. Coxen gave his
daughter away. She wore magnolia
satin, and carried eucharist lilies. The
three ’maids—Lynda Southwick was the
other—were a rainbow-hued group: one
in pale green, one in geranium pink and
one in mist blue. N. O. Vidgen, Charles
Coxen and Mervyn Jensen were the
’groom’s bodyguard,
Mrs. Percy Pease entertained the Tas-
manian oarswomen at tea at Parliament
House and gave each visitor a souvenir,
She was in a redingote ensemble of
Coronation blue; Mrs. Forgan Smith
wore brown-and-white-spotted voile and
a brown hat.
The Ernest Whites have sold Bluff
Downs and have taken a flat in Sydney
until Mrs. White and daughter Sylvia
leave for England on the Orford. Sylvia
will live with a French family for about
a year to get the Parisian accent,
Also aboard the Orford will be Dr. and
Mrs. Stanley Bellmaine, who are London-
bound. The doctor, who was popular
with Diggers while a “resident” at Rose-
mount Repat. Hospital, intends to do
some delving into recent medical work.
p eg gy Wilson, daughter of the L. R.
Wilsons, who came from Canada last
year, is to be a deb. at the N., M. and
A.F. ball. Peg is a University student
and is doing a course in journalism,
The Lady Mayoress’s charity ball on
May 14 is to have as a special attraction a
stage show depicting the last four corona-
tions.
Noel Stephens, only child of the R. C.
Stephenses, was d lovely bride in her ivory
satin gown when she walked down the
aisle of St. John’s Cathedral to say “I
will” to Archie, eldest son of the W. A.
Douglas couple. She was attended by
Mrs. Norman Martin, Kath Evans and
Jean Douglas ; they were all frocked
alike in orchid-colored wind-swept
georgette, with picture-hats in the same
color, trimmed with deep Parma violets.
They carried pink cactus dahlias and
mauve Michaelmas daisies.
St. Stephen’s Cathedral was packed
for the wedding of Charlie Billington and
Moya Doyle. ’Groom is the son of the
late W. G. Billington and Mrs. Billing-
ton, bride the only daughter of the A.
Doyles, of Kenmore, Charleville. Bride’s
parents’ gifts included a new car. She
wore white chiffon velvet with a high
neckline. Twenty-nine brides before her
had worn the old veil of hand-
embroidered Irish net which Mrs. E.
Dawson lent. Mary Herbert, in pink,
was the only bridesmaid, and Dick Tyr-
whitt was best man.
To celebrate the fiftieth anniversary
of their wedding Mr. and Mrs. G. Oxen-
ham had a family dinner-party at the
home of their son, L. E. Oxenham. Ron
Oxenham, the cricketer, is a son.
Dr. Panico, Apostolic Delegate, was
warmly welcomed to Queensland. “A
land of cannibals” he had been told it
was by an ecclesiastic dignitary, but
“cannot the clergy be Irishmen too?”
There was a huge reception in his honor
in the grounds of All Hallows’ Convent.


tsr^-
r
mm
m
x
x-.-v.--v?>.
'i Wl *%
m
. .......... v
Vie
ramilif
Safeguard
always
REMEMBER that the health of
every member of your family
and their freedom from infectious
ailments are dependent upon their
own natural powers of resistance.
To be quite sure that the dietary
provides all the essential food ele-
ments, make delicious “Ovaltine”
the regular daily beverage. “Oval-
tine” is a complete and perfect food,
scientifically prepared from ingred-
ients of the finest quality. It is
unequalled for building up body,
nerves and brain and maintaining
resistance at the highest level.
For abundant energy and glowing
health “Ovaltine” should be the
daily beverage of everyone.
TRIAL SAMPLE: A generous trial
sample of “Ovaltine”, sufficient to make
four cupsful, will be sent on receipt of
3d. in stamps, to cover the cost of pack-
ing and postage. See address below.
Nett Weight INCREASED 12£% in all sizes.
Small Size:
l/9
Medium Size:
9oz. 2/10
Large Size:
18oz. 5/-
OVALTINE'
A. WANDER LIMITED, 1 YORK STREET NORTH, SYDNEY.
n n is 17
"OVALTINE" SELLS ON MERIT ALONE. NO GIFTS
OR COUPONS—JUST 100% QUALITY AND VALUE.
THIRTY - SIX PAGE
KNITTING BOOK
FREE
With April 27 Issue.
KNITTING FEATURES INCLUDE:—
Tailored Golf Outfit
Cardigan in Tweed Effect.
Jumper Cardigan with Basque and Yoke.
Girlie’s Cosy Dressing-gov/n.
Man’s Navy Golf Shirt.
Sports Jumper in a Broken Rib Pattern.
Undie Set in Crepe Yarn.
Man’s Sleeveless Pullover.
School Pullover for a Five-year-old.
Baby’s Set in Butterfly-stitch.
Pyjamas with Moss-stitch Trimmings.
Sports Costume in Double Moss-stitch.
A Very Full Set for Baby.
Dress for a Little Miss.
Toy: Michael the Monk.
Lacy Jumper for a Matron.
Toddler’s Jumper.
Girl’s Jumper in Sports Wool.
AUSTRALIAN
WOMAN'S MIRROR
On Sale Thursday. 100 Pages for 3d.
THE LITTLE SISTERS.
WESTRALIA.
Government House ballroom was char-
tered for the mammoth send-off to
Matron E. McNevin, of Perth Public
Hospital, who leaves us to take up a
similar position at Prince Henry Hospital,
Sydney. Representative citizens turned
up in full force, and there was a great
deal of speechifying. Presentations came
thick and heavy ; the hospital board, the
nursing staff", the honorary medicoes and
administrative officers were in the field
with parting tokens. Storms of applause
greeted the departing one, whose bouquet
of roses trembled against floral black
satins when she rose to respond.
Air League uniforms and the dance
frocks of bright young things mingled like
a cloud of confetti in the Karrakatta
Club ballroom when the Nedlands girls
and the air-minded lads of the Mt.
Lawley company joined forces in putting
on a dance. Mrs. L. H. Pocklington,
with floral-blue chiffons emerging from
her silver net coatee, stood next Mrs.
Eastman’s black silk velvets for the wel-
coming. Barbara Morgan presided over
her section of the doings with a red,
white and blue spray pinned to her
luminous black satins. Betty Davies tied
her secretarial black cellophane with a
silver girdle, and a jewelled belt' glittered
on Nancy Mansfield’s pleated dawn-pink
georgette. Mrs. Ernest Cooke slipped a
full-length tulle coat over her cream
tucked satin, Betty Ottaway draped a
white lace fichu over rustling navy
taffetas and a riot of spots shone on
Nancy Markland’s moon-blue taffeta.
Most of the metropolitan golf clubs
went social with mixed foursome com-
petitions for the opening of the winter
season, but with the mercury at summer-
heat mark feminine club wielders had no
opportunity to produce their gay new
woollies. Seaview and Cottesloe drove off
with preliminary ceremonies when the A
and B pennants respectively were pre-
sented to the clubs. Entries at all clubs
were numerous, but only the all-the-year-
round players returned cards up to
standard.
The scarlet shirts of the Broomehill
team swept all before them at the five-day
polo carnival. Both the Gooch and the
Charles Challenge Cups were carried off
by the country lads, but honors were
easy in the final day’s gymkhana events.
Pictorially the men far outshone the
women, with shirts and cardigans in all
shades of the rainbow, whereas the fair
equestriennes stuck uniformly to khaki.
A highlight was Audrey MacLeod’s huge
sombrero and colored neckerchief, which
figured prominently in fancy races. Gwen
Brazier, with an eye to shampoo-and-
set, popped a gay bathing cap over her
brunette tresses for the apple-and-bucket
race. Lines of cars, which grow yearly
longer, bowled through the dust packed
with passengers and hampers for picnic
teas. Shady spots were earmarked early
in the piece, but president and Mrs.
Noonan housed their large party in the
near-by official tent.
Gerald Parkes and the Philip Egerton-
Warburtons’ elder daughter Patience
were made one. at St. Mary’s, South
Perth. Horizontal ruchings covered the
bodice and sleeves of the bride’s em-
bossed magnolia satins; the long shaped
train, swirling far below the hem of her
billowing skirt, descended from the
shoulders, semi-concealed beneath the
cloud of tulle which was lightly caught to
her head by petals of tulle and orange-
blossom. In her wake came Cecily Eger-
ton-Warburton and Helen Dobson, their
amethyst taffetas corded at the hem and
cut with soft berthe collars ; their gar-
lands of violets and Cecil Brunner roses
matching the circlet's entwining their
hair. Bride’s mother swung a train of
moon-blue lace when she received the
hundred guests in her home in South
Perth.
After long occupation by bricklayers,
plasterers, carpenters and their ilk St.
Anne’s Nursing Home was opened by
Archbishop Prendiville for the Sisters of
Mercy. This erstwhile home of the late.
R. T. Robinson, for long a landmark of
the upper reaches of the Swan, has lost
none of its beauty in the transformation.
Structural alterations are in keeping with
the original design, and the extensive
gardens bloom luxuriantly as ever. Per-
haps the most modern equipment of any
hospital in the State has been installed,
including air-conditioned operating
theatres, a recovery room and complete
X-ray and deep-therapy departments.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
At Athelney, their beautiful old home
at Hackney, the Edgar Bristowe Hughes
couple gave a dance to celebrate the
debut of daughter Mary. The guests
were received in the ballroom by the
hostess and her daughter, Mrs. Hughes
in leaf-brown satin with gold hair stripe,
fitting to the figure, Mary in white moire
satin cut on princess lines. Mary’s grand-
mother, Mrs. E. C. Gwynne, sported a
pink corsage spray on her black lace.
Mrs. Harold Hughes’s brown lace was
embroidered in silver. Mrs. H. W. Hod-
getts, another aunt, was in black georg-
ette relieved by a diamente ornament.
Dr. Gerald Gregerson sprang a sur-
prise on his Adelaide friends. He left for
London on March 18 in the Oronsay en
route for Vienna to do post-graduate
work. Introduced on board to a pretty
Sydney girl, Sheila, daughter of the
solicitor W. Campbells, romance de-
veloped and culminated with the marriage
of the young couple at Christ Church,
Westminster, London. Dr. Gregerson
returned to Vienna with his bride on the
wedding day.
Isobel, only daughter of George
Ritchie and his lady, remained in Ceylon
after her parents returned, and after a
week spent with the Leslie de Sarams
went to Nuwara Eliya, where she was the
guest of the Governor, Sir Edward
Stubbs, and Lady Stubbs. She is now
on her way back to Adelaide.
Mrs. B. J. Curry, whose 100th birthday
fell on April 16, was given a party by
the Methodist Mothers’ Club in Pirie-
street, when she was feted and presented
with gifts. No one would credit slim and
alert Mrs. Curry with having attained
the century. As one of the very early
pioneers she faced many hardships, and
is the mother of 23 children. She never
misses the annual pioneers’ luncheon at
Glenelg, and never fails to make a
humorous speech. She came to South
Australia in 1840 in the ship Martin
Luther.
An American tennis match, in which
mothers played daughters, was held at
Girton school, Kensington, the affair
being arranged by the Girton Mothers’
Association. Most of the mothers are
quite young women, and they scored
over their offspring.
Artist Hans Heysen came into the lime-
light in a new capacity when in St.
Peter’s College chapel he handed his
youngest daughter Deirdre to D’Arcy,
elder son of the W. J. Cowells, of Mount
Lofty. The bride wore magnolia satin,
and her long tulle veil was held in place
by a halo of tulle and satin. Primrose
taffeta veiled in georgette of the same
shade was worn by the two bridesmaids
Josephine Heysen (sister of the bride) and
Ynis Cowell (sister of the bridegroom).
They wore bandeaus of taffeta, and car-
ried autumnal posies. There was a recep-
tion afterwards at Mount Osmond
Country Club, where huge log fires
burned and dahlias and zinnias deco-
rated.
TASMANIA.
The opening of the new Colonial Mutual
Building, Hobart’s nearest approach to
a skyscraper, which doesn’t match the
rest of our architecture a bit, was an
affair of much pomp and ceremony. His
Ex. turned the key, Lady Clark was
present, also knight Harry Lawson and
his lady, knight Sydney Snow, of Syd-
ney, and the local bigwigs. A luncheon
at Hadley’s preceded the opening, and
visiting officers of the C.M.I. Co. and
their wives were dined at Government
House the same evening.
The Midland Hunt Club’s first meet of
the season took place at St. Marys. A
big field turned out, and there was an
unusually large crowd of followers by
car and on horseback. Picnic lunch was
enjoyed, the weather being perfect.
Joan Clemes and Audie Palfreyman
had a morning wedding, the bride in
a frock of dull pinky-red cloque, high-
waisted and flaring as to skirt, and with
wide tops to the sleeves. A velour hat,
one tone deeper than the frock, had a
stitched band of wool in the same shade
as the dress. The bride’s sister Ruth
and ’groom’s sister Kathleen ’maided in
georgette-over-taffeta frocks, a little
lighter in shade than the bridal turnout.
Eleven of the Speck’s painters were
selected to send works to the Art Exhi-
bition in London at Coronation-time—
Mrs. Marie Dechaineux, Misses E.
Nicholls, M. Hookey, Edith Holmes,
Nea Whittle and D. Butler, Messrs. H.
Kelly, L. Dechaineux, J. Connor, John
Eldershaw and V. P. Webb.
The much-travelled Lady Edmond-
stone is giving the Speck the once-over.
She has been through the Australian
mainland three times, but hitherto has
missed us out. She stayed at Hadley’s
while in Hobart.
Mrs. Cox Taylor is back in Hobart
on a visit renewing old friendships. Mrs.
D. C. McLaren is her hostess.
Betty Sale and Beatrice Perry, our
champion golfing girls, are off to Ceylon
for a trip. They travel in the Otranto.


THE MUTUAL LIFE AND CITIZENS’ ASSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
FOUNDED 1886
A WONDERFUL JUBILEE YEAR
The M.L.C. takes pleasure in announcing that the results for its fiftieth
year surpass all records.
STRENGTH
ASSETS exceed £25,000,000, of which over 83 per cent', was represented
by Government, Municipal and Local Body Loans, and Loans on Policies.
The valuation of the actuarial liabilities was made on strictly pure premium
bases, the rates of interest assumed being 2\ per cent, for the Industrial Branch,
and per cent, for the Ordinary Branch. These rates are unsurpassed for
strength in Australia.
PROGRESS
The new Ordinary Branch business written was . . . . £7,047,491
The new Industrial Branch business written was . . . . 3,798,079
£ 1 0,845,5 70
representing a 33 per cent, increase over the previous best figures.
The increase in funds was £1,274,557 —the largest in the Company’s
history. The total income increased by £409,207 (the largest increase on
record) to £3,744,515.
GOOD MANAGEMENT
Economy. —Notwithstanding the record increase in business written, the
percentage of income absorbed in expenses was only 10.04 in the Ordinary
Branch, and 25.07 in the Industrial Branch.
Light Mortality. —The mortality experienced was again extraordinarily
light
Sound Investment of Funds.—The effective rate of interest earned on funds
and reserves was £5/0/1 per cent, in the Ordinary Branch, and £4/17/4 per
cent, in the Industrial Branch. Outstanding interest at the end of the year
amounted to £6OOl, on assets of over £25,000,000, and none of it was brought
into account as an asset.
THE RESULT
The .M.L.C. has been able to maintain the high bonus rates paid for the
year 1935
Example.—Whole of life policy in the Ordinary Branch, age 30 at entry:
Reversionary Bonus for the first year, £2/5/- per cent., increasing to £4/2/-
per cent, for the 30th year.
. TRUSTEES
JOHN DONALDSON, A.1.A., Melbourne.
The Hon. Sir JOHN B. PEDEN, K.C.M.G., M.L.C., Sydney.
Sir GEORGE JULIUS, K. 8., B.Sc., 8.E., Sydney.
The Right Hon. W. A. WATT, P.C., Melbourne.
The Hon. F. W. EGGLESTON, Melbourne.
J. S. WILSON, F.1.A., Melbourne
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
ARTHUR EEDY, Managing Director. JAMES ASHTON, Chairman.
W. J. BLOOMFIELD, 8.A., L.L.8., Joint Managing Director.
F. LEVERRIER, K.C., 8.A., B.Sc
The Hon. Sir HENRY Y. BRADDON, K.8.E., M.L.C.
The Long White Cloud
“Cluny”: Maoriland Labor’s decision
to complete unfinished railway lines —
abandoned by the previous Government
as being hardly worth the expense —has
presented its Public Works Department
with several new construction records.
On the East Coast line between Napier
and Wairoa, a 314 ft. high viaduct
stretches 900 ft. over the Mohaka River,
and has been practically completed in
seven months. Riveters hammered home
more rivets in eight hours than any of
Maoriland’s earlier tradesmen, and the
whole viaduct reached finishing stages
without a single serious accident. There
is about 1850 tons of steel in the job,
and P.W.D. engineers are certain to have
watched the work carefully; parts of
the hilly Mohaka completely changed
face during the violent 1931 ’quake.
* * * *
“Mak”: Climbers attempting unknown
peaks like Mt. Trent, where three lives
were recently lost, and crossing mountain
ranges by new routes are gradually
filling in blank spots on Maoriland’s
alpine maps. Mountain-club members
working through new country take with
them prismatic compasses, aneroid baro-
meters and panoramic photographic gear
—all with the object of checking existing
maps and supplying survey department
officials with new data. Errors in the
mapped positions of minor South Island
peaks, glaciers and streams have been
tracked down by these, amateurs and
incorporated in correct topographical
maps by officers of the department.
Maoriland lacks a military incentive for
expensive surveys of the kind carried out
in the mountains along the frontiers of
Switzerland, Italy, Austria and Ger-
many ; these European alps have been
accurately measured and mapped along
contour lines only about 100 ft. apart.
❖ >!* 4:
“Kohi”: It took rescue parties and
packhorses nearly a week to transport to
the nearest township the bodies of the
three Maoriland alpinists who lost their
lives on Mt. Trent. No ascent had been
made of the peak until late in March,
when this party reached the area —not
because Trent is a difficult mountain, but
because it lies in remote and inaccessible
South Island alps country. Three, mem-
bers of the climbing party carried the
news to the nearest township ; but for
their escape, it might have been years
before the bodies were found. Egmont,
a comparatively easy North Island
mountain surrounded with towns and
near-by farms, still holds the secrets of
several climbing tragedies, and Ruapehu,
another popular North Island peak, hides
the bones of other unfound alpinists.
Lost or injured climbers invariably make
for the heavy bush on the lower slopes
of Maoriland’s snow mountains, and
there the deep, criss-crossing gullies and
heavy undergrowth have thwarted many
search parties.
* * * *
“Korero”: The daddy of all Dominion
publicists in the U.K. is Lord Bledisloe.
Governor-General before, the present in-
cumbent, he never loses an opportunity
to write Maoriland or talk it. Glouces-
tershire got the last cannonade when
Lord Bledisloe publicly stated that he
had just been to S. Africa to see if it
was a better place than Maoriland.
“I could find no similarity between the
two countries except in three respects,”
he said: “one was the generous hospi-
tality of the people, the second was the
sunshine, and the third the mortgages
on the farms!” A flash of wit that
might have prevented Maoriland editors
from uttering impatient words had he
employed it more frequently in his G.-G.
speeches.
* * % *
“Waitot”: Only sailors had heard of
Kingman Reef before the Pan-American
Airways clipper flew to Maoriland—
which is not remarkable seeing that it
hasn’t enough dry land to carry all the
buildings required by the future air ser-
vice. Existence of the reef was noted
“Oh, te prute! Pit te hand l'at fed 'im!"
as early as 1793 by a Connecticut
(U.S.A.) skipper, Fanning, sailing his
brig to Manila. Twice in one night he
woke up and found himself, fully
clothed, pacing the bridge when he
should have been in bed ; a religious
man, he took this as a warning and
hove-to till morning, when breakers
were observed right ahead. It was King-
man Reef, or, as the old maps have it,
Danger Island. The reef was rediscov-
ered three times —once by a British
naval vessel—before it was sighted by an
American editor on a 1922 holiday
cruise. He kicked up such a. fuss about
the “discovery” and its possible import-
ance as a future refuelling base for sur-
face craft that an American survey ship
formally annexed it in 1926. Now, 140
years in the wake of the sleepwalking
Connecticut skipper, aircraft are to land
on its sheltered sea enclosure and base
buildings to be established on floating
foundations.
»!* 'J 4 v
“Motu”: “I am not an expert rat-
catcher or mouse-catcher,” said a Maori-
land detective the other day, “but, off-
hand, I would say it was a rat.” There-
by hangs a tale. A man was in court
on a lottery charge arising from a pic-
ture puzzle ; the word clue was “a bright
light” and “fla —e” was given as being
four letters of the five-word answer. The
picture clue was a rodent referred to
by the cautious magistrate as a “rouse.”
A professor of biology and zoology said
that, by measurement and knowledge,
he had proved conclusively that the pic-
ture rodent was a mouse; therefore,
contended the defence, it was a game of
skill. Don’t know whether the test
holds good with Australian rodents, but
the prof, plumped for a mouse because
“the ear of a mouse, bent oyer, should
cover the eye with its tip ; the ear of
a rat is shorter and does not reach the
eye.” The beak, evidently deciding it
was still a “rouse,” fined the promoting
genius a fiver for conducting a game of
chance.
<r; t\i *
“Kiwit”: Things have warmed up a
little in the Maoriland policy scrap
between Labor and newspapers it accused
of trying to “discredit the Government”
(B. 24/3 /’37). Labor’s national con-
ference choked over the £500,000 esti-
mated as necessary to start Labor dailies
in each of the four capitals—and
decided instead to rely on radio and its
weekly to “tell the truth to the people.”
The Labor “Standard” devoted the
whole of a recent front page to “ex-
posing” daily newspaper methods. One
of its tag-headings read: “Unscrupu-
lous Misrepresentation and Suppression
in Daily Newspapers,” and it hinted that
the Government might accept the “chal-
lenge.” This sounds like a recent Savage
speech on the same subject', but there
are not likely to be unusual develop-
ments before the P.M. gets back from
London. And lately the dailies haven’t
been devoting quite as much space to
Chambers of Commerce criticisms!
* * * *
“D.N.”: A case of records, dating
from 1819 to 1855, has reached Maori-
land from the vaults of the Wesleyan
Church in London. Its contents, hitherto
unpublished, include reports and com-
ments sent to England by the early
Methodist missionaries of the period,
and reveal new angles on old happenings.
The earliest letters are those of Samuel
Leigh, dated 1819, the year in which
Samuel Marsden persuaded him to have
a look at Maoriland ; only a few years
later, documents began to reach London
from men like Nathaniel Turner,
William White, James Stack, John
Hobbs, John Wallis, Charles Creed,
James Watkin and the rest of the early
Wesleyans. Thomas Kendall and Henry
Williams, of the Anglican mission, also
wrote to Wesleyan heads, Kendall’s
first letter being written the, same year
as Leigh’s. Authorities of the calibre
of Lindsay Buick, G. H. Scholefield and
Johannes Andersen regard this, case of
fresh material as a real windfall for
Maoriland’s present and future his-
torians and writers.
* * Ms M=
“Xo”: Since the Mrs. Freer business
—she doesn’t seem to have hurt anyone
on this side of the Tasman—Maoriland
has been particularly interested in the Aus-
tralian Government’s methods of exclud-
ing “unwanted” visitors and its reasons,
generally unexplained, for such deci-
sions. So when a foreigner with a Christ-
church domicile returned from a visit
to the land of his fathers,
Maoriland newspapermen
pounced on his story of
“humiliation” at Fre-
mantle. He said he had
the greatest difficulty in get-
ting a look at Perth ; ac-
cording to Fremantle Cus-
toms men he didn’t have
enough ready cash. After
he flourished his through
ticket to Wellington (M.L.)
they still cross-questioned
him. Thereupon the Christ-
church resident hit the roof and threat-
ened to “do things” back in Maoriland ;
and he got ashore after more fuss than
in any of the overseas countries he
visited.
$ *
“The Sub.”: When the Port Tauranga,
on her maiden voyage to Maoriland,
remained in the stream off Lyttelton, the
skipper was interviewed from the shore
by means of Morse code. He said the
trip had been uneventful and all on
board were well. At that point conver-
sation ceased. Perhaps the reporter’s
cigarette-lighter ran out of juice.
Ribbons to enable N.S.W. returned
soldiers to brighten up their medals for
Anzac Day are available at a nominal
cost at Wingello House, Sydney.


Special DIAMOND
INSULATING PROCESS
Safeguards the Power of
IST
Spiral tube stripped to show
its TWO layers of insulation.
P. 5. Radio Batteries
1. A spiral tube, heavily treated
with TWO inner coatings of
special insulating compound, com-
pletely insulates each cell against
internal leakage from its com-
panion cells.
2. Diamond cells, each in their
individual insulating tube, are
rigidly bound into a battery block
by the use of an insulating bind-
ing material.
3. Not only are the sides of each
cell permanently insulated, but
also the bottom of each cell.
Thus, when assembled into bat-
tery form, each cell is perfectly
insulated from the other. There
CELLS -
RIGIDLY
EMBEDDED
IN
SEALING
COMPOUND
// ' , ' '
s ' ' ' „V
is no weak spot.
Costly power wast-
age through in-
ternal leakage is
entirely eliminated.
(BOTTOM INSULATING CAP
(COLORED RED)
.TURNED OVER
EDGE OF TUBE
TO HOLD
INSULATING
CAP
Cut-away view
of bottom of
solid Battery
Block before
insertion into
Battery Box.
Note how the
bottom of each
cell is complete-
ly insulated and
protected.
DIAMOND P 5.
RADIO BATTERIES AND TORCH REFILLS
WIDDIS DIAMOND DRY CELLS PTY. LTD.
Cnr. Park and Wells Streets, South Melbourne, 5.C.4. 'Phone: M 4601.
N.S.W. Agents: —
REG ROSE AND CO., LTD.,
. 58 Margaret Street, Sydney.
Tel.: 8W2114. D4O
RADIO BARGAINS.
Philips Eliminators 10/-, 12/6, 15/-; Philips Audio
Transformers 10/-, A.W.A. 6/-, others from 31-
Lightning Arrester and Switch, 6d. Variable
Condensers from 2/-. Reinarts Coils 1/6. Valves:
6-volt Battery, 6/-; A.C., 227. 3/6; 224, 4/6;
42, 6/-; 6A7, 7/6; 687, 7/6; 2A6, 6/-. Cord Grip
Holders. 3d. All tested and guaranteed. Add postage.
RADIO SUPPLY STORES,
7 ROYAL ARCADE. SYDNEY
1937 Amateur Radio and
Short-wave Exhibition.
Opens 6 p.m., May 3, in Sydney
Town Hall.
Opening Ceremony. —At 9 p.m., W. M.
Moore (VK2HZ), Fed. pres. W.1.A., will
introduce Professor Woodruff, pres.
I.A.R.U. and A.R.R.L., through stations
VK2ME and 2BL Sydney.
Professor WoodrufT (in U.S.A.) will
send a message to Australian radio ama-
teurs at 9.3 p.m. through stations
W2XAF (New York) and 2BL Sydney.
At 9.13 p.m., Mr. E. T. Fisk, chairman
of directors A.W.A., Ltd., will deliver
from England a message to the N.S.W.
division of W.I.A
At 9.23 p.m., H. F. Peterson (VK2HP),
N.S.W. pres. W.1.A., will introduce J. S.
Duncan, Deputy-Director Posts and
Telegraphs, and at 9.35 p.m. Mr. Duncan
will reply on behalf of the wireless
branch of the P.M.G., through stations
VK2ME and 2BL Sydney.
A talk on the exhibition will be given
over 2BL Sydney on 27/4/’37 by W. G.
Ryan (VK2TI), hon. sec. N.S.W. div.
of W.I.A
DON B. KNOCK'S PAGES.
Record-making 56mc.
Transmitter.
Twenty metres was, not so long ago,
considered the ultimate in useful long-
distance communication. A little later
commercial men were saying that any-
thing below about 12 metres was useless
for reliable long-distance working.
Amateurs then hammered at the 10-
metre door until it gave way. Those who
had jumped to conclusions a year or two
earlier hadn’t reckoned with the influ-
ence of sun-spots. Now world-wide
working goes on at 10 metres as a normal
daily event in amateur stations.
Five metres has proved a serious DX
stumbling-block, but, nothing daunted,
the amateur tries to break down the
DX barriers at this allegedly “quasi-
optical” range ; and reports filter through
from various parts of the world of
signals on this band—elusive and un-
certain, it is true, but' they have provided
a stimulus.
Four months ago, H. L. O’Heffernan
(GSBY), of England, received verification
of reception of his five-metre signals in
New York —clear across the Atlantic.
The event carries all the thrill of Mar-
coni’s famous “S” signal from St. lohn’s
to Poldhu in the infant days of wireless.
GsBY’s transmitter is reviewed in “Tele-
vision and Short-wave World” (England).
As the diagram shows, it is crystal
controlled, using an 80-metrc crystal.
The oscillator is a 53 quadrupling to 20,
followed by a Mullard PEN4V doubling
to 10 metres. A PENA 4 is used as a
doubler to five metres, and from there
the job is taken up by push-pull
PM24Ds as buffer. The final stage has
two Eimac 35Ts running at 150 watts.
Of particular interest is the plate “tank”
of the PM24Ds. A series-tuned circuit
is employed, enabling the use of more
inductance than with parallel tuning.
Circuit of the transatlantic five-metre transmitter used by GSBY. With the
exception of coil data, all values are indicated.
For trial in this country most of the
valves specified would have to be re-
placed by other patterns. The 53 is
readily obtainable. A 6P6 Radiotron
would serve as the 10-metre doubler
and an 802 for doubling again to
five; 802’s could be used as push-
pull buffer, and, as the characteristics of
the original valves are somewhat similar,
the. Philips F443N would also be applic-
able. The new 808 Radiotron would be
ideal in the final stage.
In the circuit diagram the final-stage
neutralising condensers have been
omitted. It will be obvious to the trans-
mitter reader that these are essential.
They should be connected in the usual
push-pull manner. The aerial diagram
shows the diamond array for transmission
and a Franklin type for reception. It is
noteworthy that GSBY used horizontally
polarised radiation, the diamond being
erected horizontally and not vertically.
It is modern five-metre apparatus such
The aerial systems. The diamond is
on the right.
as this that can be expected to get results.
Australians and Maorilanders using such
apparatus should make a concerted five-
metre effort to span the Tasman.
VK2NO.
Radio Comment.
“R.H.A.”: Recent mention of oppos-
ing trends of valve design recalls the argu-
ments put forward during the develop-
ment of the American valve. England’s
favorite battery series was the four-vole.
Then a.c. came and four-volt filaments
were retained. “Too high,” said the
Americans; “low-voltage filament lines
running about a set make for less hum.”
Result—the 2.5-volt tube. England
snapped pentodes up. “Thirty per cent,
distortion in a . bottle! ” remarked the
Americans ; but they developed the 247
and then went mad over it and its suc-
cessors. Now, having forgotten the
bogies of high-voltage a.c. leads in sets,
they have developed the 6.3-volt line.
They were also opposed to metai valves
when the Catkins were first introduced ;
to-day they are most enthusiastic. The
one thing ali seem to agree about is the
voltage of valves for outback radios, and
that both American and the British
makers are putting energy into develop-
ing efficient two-volt types is certainly
encouraging. But the assortment of
bases is still a matter to cry over.
* * * *
“H.”: I endorse every word of Don
B. Knock’s articie of a few weeks ago
about the trials of battery-operated wire-
less in the bush. I have to send my bat-
tery to town for charging at a cost of
6s a time, plus 2s. for carriage. It costs
me roughly 10s. a month. Often it is
only half charged ; the last time it came
back with two cells dead dry. On a
previous occasion the negative pole had
been so badly mutilated it was nearly
cut off. It had obviously been shorted
across. I went to the expense of buying
a second battery so that I could have
one in and one out of use, but I am
really not much better off.
* * * *
“Ragchu”: The home - constructed
short-wave receiver may be used with
batteries or it may be built complete
with power supply on the same chassis
for A.C. operation. For sets up to five
valves the once popular B eliminator
should not be overlooked—the Philips
3003, for example. Sold at 12 guineas
a few years ago, it can now be picked
up in second-hand stores for ten bob.
There was never a better power unit
made for short-wave receivers. Humless
and economical, it is valued by many
amateurs who put it to work on Ideal
superhets or other small receivers.
Unless it' is a big receiver, the usual 80
rectifier, choke and twin Bmfd. electro-
lytic, power supply is a waste of time
and money so long as these “obsolete”
B eliminators are available.
ip * * *
“S.W.L.”: Remarkable that the
country in which short-wave broadcast-
ing first started (with KDKA) appears
to be lagging behind Britain and Europe
in the matter of high power stations
comparable with Daventry or Berlin.
Though well ahead in radio technique,
the U.S.A. has no short-wave station
working on a large scale. The reason
is probably the, difference between
private enterprise and the inexhaustible
public money available to the 8.8. C.
* * * *
“Querex”: According to some critics
in Australia television is a mere experi-
ment —not to be compared with radio.
One line of attack is the cost of a tele-
vision receiver—£6o to £l2O. All con-
sidered, 80 guineas or so is not unreason-
able for a television receiver which is
combined with a “sound” receiver cover-
ing from seven to 2000 metres. Even
in Australia, as much as £95 is asked
for radio-gramophone combinations —
and people buy them. If Australians
had an Alexandra Palace television
station on the air, there wouldn’t be any
question about television receivers sell-
ing if they were “combined” produc-
tions.
What's What in Radio.
The largest dry battery in the world,
standing 6ft. high, is installed in a flash-
ing inland waterway beacon at St. Louis
(U.S.A.). It has 70 cells in series-parallel,
and will provide power at 6| volts for
one year.
* * * *
When flood, earthquake or hurricane
happens in U.S.A. amateur transmitters
are quick to provide communication over
isolated areas. During the recent heavy
Mississippi floods thousands of amateu*'
stations handled a large volume of
traffic, both by radio-telephony and tele-
graphy. In such emergencies specially-
designed portable stations are of tre-
mendous value. The amateur living in


P 5
M
t
"National Melodies" over 2CH at 9.20
p.m. (Fridays); 2SM at 3.30 p.m.
(Mondays, Tuesdays, Thursdays, Fridays).
IN NEXT ISSUE.
THE IDEAL BATTERY T.R.F.
ALL-WAVE RECEIVER.
Designed by Don. B. Knock for
use in locations suited to this type
of receiver. A powerful and sensi-
tive receiver, combining economy
with first-class operation.
Valves can make or mar your set. To be
sure of clear reception, fit your receiver
with Radiotrons; universally acclaimed
the most reliable valves in the world.
RADIOTRON
AUSTRALIAN
GENERAL -g ELECTRIC
LIMITED
Sydney Melbourne Brisbane
Adelaide Hobart
Amalgamated Wireless
(Australasia) Ltd.
47 York Street, Sydney
167-16? Queen Street, Melbourne
(Advertisement of Amalgamated Wireless Valve Co. Ltd.
a part of the country likely to suffer
from the elements wisely has a small
auxiliary station capable of operation
on the' 160-, 80- and 40-metre bands
from batteries alone.
Aerodrome Lighting.
Allied with the important business of
establishing radio pathways for aircraft
is naturally the equally important one of
aerodrome lighting. Recently the Corn-
A new G.E.C. course indication beacon
which by means of flashes shows pilots
if they are on their correct course.
monwealth Government extended a
scheme for the lighting of Australian air
routes by placing a contract with the
B.G.E. Co., Ltd., for beacons at Cath-
erine and Pine Creek (N.T.) and Can-
berra (F.C.T.). Beacons previously
ordered were for Mascot, Evans Head,
Goff’s Harbor and Tuncurry (N.S.W.),
Coolangatta (Q.) and Cambridge (Tas.).
1 he type of light is shown here.
A 1500-watt concentrated filament
lamp is used with a 24in. diameter para-
bolic mirror, producing a beam of
1,000,000 c.p. A deflector mounted on
the front glass of the housing directs por-
tion of the beam upwards so that a pilot
flying high in the vicinity will not lose
the signal. The beacon is rotated once
in ten seconds by i-h.p. motor mounted
in the base, the flash of the beam being
about quarter-second. In the event of
the failure of the lamp an automatic
changing device comes into operation
and swings a new lamp into the correct
position. A visual and audible alarm is
then operated by the changing device to
warn the maintenance engineer of the
failure.
Beacons similar to this have been sup-
plied by G.E.C., of England, for use at
a number of points on the Empire air
route in India. In these cases they are
installed at regular intervals between
aerodromes to indicate to pilots the cor-
rect route.
The installation of beacons in Aus-
tralia is but the first step for the equip-
ment of aerodromes for night flying.
Ultimately floodlights, wind-direction in-
dicators and boundary lights will be
brought into use.
For the Bookshelf.
What has gone before in the history
of marine radio communication, in the
days when broadcasting and short waves
were unborn, is vividly told in SOS —
Radio Rescues at Sea, by Karl Baarslag
(Methuen). For the radio man who
lived through the early years of “spark,”
old memories are revived, and for the
young marine wireless operator in his
modern “shack” afloat, with the world
at his fingertips, the book recalls
stirringly the heroism of those pioneers
associated with sea disasters such as
those of the Republic, Titanic, Empress
of Ireland, Volturno and Vestris. Baar-
slag is a little too hard on the early-day
amateurs ; he devotes a lot of criticism
to the “tin-can” amateur. Amateur
spark did hamper commercial working
in the old days, but, after all, everybody
was learning, and the amateur quickest
of all. Eventually the author says:
To-day books are no longer dropped
on keys, amateurs do not torment and be-
devil commercial and navy coast stations,
and the air is filled with sweetness and
courtesy.
The book tells the story of Jack Binns
on the stricken Republic:
Binns grew cold and numb at his key.
After he was able to get in direct touch
with the Baltic and La Touraine hundreds
of messages were exchanged. He worked
under a severe handicap because in trying
to rig his set up in the darkness he had
accidentally knocked a side-lever of his key,
so that in order to transmit he had to hold
the broken key with one hand and send
with the other. The operator on La
Touraine slipped in a message asking how
he felt. Binns replied: “I’m on the job;
ship sinking, but will stick to the end.”
A message from the Baltic cheered him:
“Don’t worry, old man, we are bursting
our boilers' to get to you at 22 knots.”
After 25 years Binns still vividly re-
calls the intense and biting cold. All
steam heat had failed with the flooding
of the engineroom and the temperature
was near zero off Nantucket in January.
The captain told Binns not to be afraid
—“we will see that you get off all right.”
Binns smiled and explained that the
A fine example of modern radio engineering design. The chassis of one of the
1937 World Range Radiolas.
intense cold up in the freezing wireless-
room was responsible for his chattering
teeth.
Of all Baarslag’s descriptions, that of
the loss of the Titanic (the unsinkable
ship) is the. most complete and detailed.
It tells of the experiences of Harold
Bride, junior operator, and the loss of
Philips, the senior. A “one-man
operator” ship, the S.S. Californian, was
within 20 miles of the Titanic through-
out. The operator had finished his
watch and turned in a few minutes
before the SOS rapped out.
Third officer Groves went into the in-
strument-room and picked up the ’phones;
he could receive Morse if sent slowly, but,
of course, he heard nothing, for the re-
ceiver was dead. It was the old magnetic
type which required winding like a clock
and skilled adjustment. At this very
moment the Titanic was sending out her
urgent SOS calls less than 15 miles away.
The book concludes with a previously
untold storv. that of “The Unlucky
Tashmoo.” A fire had destroyed the
wireless gear on the previous trip. No
operator was on board, and; an assistant
steward, Finch, with no knowledge of
wireless, but with war-time experience
as a British artillery signalman, got the
apparatus in action by sheer good luck
with the ship threatening to sink at any
time. His SOS was heard and a rescue
was effected.
The book is non-technical and brimful
of action and adventure.
D. B. K.
A.W.A.'s 1937 Radiola Range.
I" 1937 Fisk Radiola A.W.A. has
pioduced receivers incorporating the
latest worth-while developments m
broadcast-receiver design.
‘ ' . •,. i; ’ i • j ar
fhe new straight-line dim, cops
ably larger than the dial of previous
models, is placed across the top front of
the ca binet in such a position that it is
.. .. . c „ . ,• „
easily readable from either a standing 01
sitting position. Newly-designed tuning
condensers with genuine straight-line
frequency characteristics have given even
spacing of stations throughout the scale.
This has removed the usual congestion
of stations on the lower ranges of the
ordinary broadcast band, and facilitates
tuning as well as enhancing the general
appearance. Station callsigns and cali-
brations are also larger and clearer, and
there is no sense of crowding. In the
larger World Range models the calibration
scales rotate as the wave-ranges are
changed.
The larger World Range models incor-
porate an additional wave-range. With
two short-wave ranges these Radiolas
now give a wave-length coverage from
13-105 metres and provide reception on
the shorter wave-lengths down to the 13-
metre broadcast band, which is the
frequency used by many overseas broad-
casting stations.
New methods of alignment have been
adopted. By the use of air-trimmers and
inductance tuning it has been possible to
ensure that the permanent alignment and
efficiency of the delicately-tuned radio
and intermediate frequency circuits are
maintained under all conditions of heat
and humidity. Also there is improved
sensitivity and selectivity generally.
1936 Radiolas were so good in tone
quality that little room was left for im-
provement, but in these new Radiolas
improvement has been achieved in
arrangements of circuits and design of
components, especially the loudspeakers,
The new loudspeakers show many
advances extension of low-frequency
response, reduction of harmonic distor-
tion, improved transient response and
control of fundamental and cone reso-
nances.
An important feature of the new
battery models is that conversion can be
made from battery to batteryless opera-
tion, or vice versa, by means of a simple
change-over. Further, the B-battery
The 1937 World Range Radiola.
equipment is standard for all Radiolas,
and all Radiola vibrator power units
are identical. The vibrator power unit
is a device for obtaining high-tension B
supply from an accumulator, thus elimi-
nating the dry type B batteries commonly
used. The unit is completely shielded
and is housed in a soundproof box in
the base of the cabinet. It includes
a vibrator, a transformer, a lower-
frequency smoothing circuit, high-
frequency input and output filter circuits.
Radiola cabinets have distinctly new
proportions and incorporate the latest
tendencies of modern furniture design.
The fitting of a moulded Radelec back
considerably enhances the appearance.
The Question Box.
Full name and address must accompany all
queries. Write legibly to avoid confusion in
addresses, etc.
(1) By whom is the Don auto eliminator
made? (2) Price? (3) Where in the enclosed
transmitter circuit should the key be connected ?
(4) What books are suitable for study for the
A.0.C.P.?— 527.
(1) Don Electrical Co., Mallett-street, Cam-
perdown, N.S.W. (2) Write to co. (3) The key
can be connected in the cathode or screen, but
in either case an active crystal will be neces-
sary. (4) Jones Radio Handbook or Radio
Amateur’s. Handbook, from Angus and Robert-
son, Sydney.
I wish to qualify to operate a B-class radio
station, and already hold the A.O.C.P. Any
correspondence course available? —528.
First write to the Senior Radio In-
spector at Haymarket P. 0., Sydney, asking
for information as to the sort of examination
it is necessary to pass. A good correspondence
school is Australian School of Radio Engi-
neering, Wembley House, Railway-square,
Sydney.
$ $
My set is a 1934 eight-valve Stromberg-
Carlson (battery type). Would the Air-Cell or
Carboncel be suitable for use in place of the
two-volt accumulator ? —529.
Suggest you write both Ever-Ready and
Amplion Co., giving full particulars of the
set, with valve types. Their technical depart-
ments would advise.


HTTS
LYS
&
PROOF
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
„ •• ' < ■' ./ ( • '
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in every
Roll of Netting,
LYSAGHT’S
Fencing, Wire
'tvm-,* -***#?*> •
RMmm
p
j£»'
'Si -
m
■ -
m
wm i
&fe*»
PHI
•A •;
SHi
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Brothers & Co., Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street, Sydney
SPECIFY "LYSAGHT’S" WIRE. WIRE NETTING, ETC.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
THE SŢUFF TO GIVE'EM
MEGGITTS LINSEED MEAL.
Crossbred Wool Prices.
“Ryedown”: Growers of crossbred
wools have experienced a highly favor-
able market this year, and, though the
figures quoted by “C.V.S.” for Lincoln
wool (B. 7/4/’37) are extreme, the gen-
eral average has been such as to bring
crossbreds into serious competition with
merinos as wool-producers.
The Lincoln is a long-wool sheep, and
its heavy fleece is regarded as an
important part of the breed, yet show
judges and others refuse to consider
Downs breeds for wool. In most cases
they have good reason, but it has been
shown that the Ryeland can grow a
fleece of good bulk and quality without
impairing its mutton qualities.
Last year a mob of four-year-old Rye-
land-merino cross wethers cut an
average of 131 b. per head, the net return
to the owner for wool being £1 os. Iyd.
per head. That should dispel any exist-
ing doubts as to the quality of Ryeland
wool and;prove that lambs can be car-
ried over, even though they may be of
the belittled Downs-merino cross.
The present demand for crossbred
wool is, however, abnormal, and breeders
would be unwise to change from merinos
to crossbreds unless they intend to cater
for the export-lamb market.
M.L. Fat Lambs.
“Rom Ney”: Jim Daley, a Riverina
sheep expert, who has been having a
look at Maoriland’s fat-lamb industry,
believes the Enzedders have developed
their marketing system, abroad because
of a sheer necessity which did not.exist
in Australia until recent years, Australia
having had a home market for 80 p.c.
of its lambs, whereas M.L. could use of
its lambs only 20 p.c. ■
He believes ‘ their methods must come
to Australia if the fat-lamb industry is
to be successful here. In Maoriland
there are districts more adapted for ewe-
and hogget- than lamb-breeding (as there
are here), and from' these the lamb men
draw their, ewe supplies. Thus the men
on intensive fattening areas have a never-
failing supply of mothers, a serious lack
in N. S. Wales. r.
The , famous. Canterbury (M.L.) dis-
trict pins its faith to the English Leices-
ter, though the - Gorriedale is rapidly
coming into favor." The Romney is
favorite in Otago, and Southland. In the
North Island Romney- and grade ewes
are mated to Southdowns, the breed most
generally favored- as a 5 sire in both
islands. Ryeland sires are making a bid
for popularity. . , .
Carcass -conformation and fleshing are
as deeply ingrained into the Maoriland
farmer’s economics as wool in the AusJ-
tralian’s. Even in the. dual-purpose Cor-
riedales and Borders perfection of carcass
is regarded as more important than wool
quality. Flock rams . of>. the right type
are worth up to 20'guineas. (An Aus-
tralian would accept five guineas aS\a
good price.) -
Maorilanders have a.deep knowledge
of the best and most economical fatten-
ing methods, as evidenced in the.pastures,
the fodder crops and rotational grazing.
Uniformity, bloom, firmness- of flesh,
depth and the • “just-right” amount 1 of
good-colored fat are a “revelation.”
There is closer concentration on a few
types and better breeding teamwbrk than
in Australia throughout the’ industry.
Greater bulk of the export lambs are
Romney, English Leicester and South-
down cross.
Treatment works are situated in con-
venient spots. Selection of drafts is
not left to the farmer’s judgment (as
here); lamb-classers from the meatworks
visit the farms and select suitable lambs
for export. There is no long-distance
travelling to treatment works; conse-
quently there is little or no wastage.
Sheep on the Barkly.
“J. Want”: Some enterprising person
has been canvassing the chances of land-
ing sheep on the Barkly Tableland by
air. It would be a quick way of getting
the animals to Canaan, and just as quick
for getting them back, as the owners
would want to do after a short experi-
ence, unless they got control of the one
or two small patches of shaded land
round about Brunette.
Generally speaking, the first thing to
be done with most of the Barkly, if it
is to become sheep-land, is to provide it
“Market reports say butter's rose, Ma. Noticed any cream on Daisy's milk lately?”
with shade-timber. It would take years
to',-do that. Then it would lake years
of- acclimatisation to provide it with
suitable sheep.
•f .Anyway, .what need is there ,to take
sheep to the Northern Territory? : Aus-
tralia is short enough of Mitchell country
suitable for cattle-raising, and all the
sheep the B.T. will accommodate could
be sandwiched on holdings in established
wool districts at the cost of about 70 p.c.
less sweat and lOUs.; < : ■ '
Picking Lambs’ Wool.
f “C.V.S.”: With merino lambs three
lines are enough, except in a very clean,
fine clip, when it may pay to keep out
a super line —the finest and brightest of
even length. This wool at sale often
beats the top line of fleece.-
- The first line takes the long, bright
wool, the second consists of the shorter
and shabbier, and the third the stained
and short, sweaty wool. Wool showing
“mother’s hair” should not be put in the
top line. If there is a good deal make a
separate lot; otherwise throw into the
second line.
In a comeback clip an extra line of
the broader wool should be made, keep-
ing it long and bulky and allowing the
seconds to go together. In a mixed
crossbred clip still another line of coarse
crossbred will be needed.
The classer should supervise the work
thoroughly, especially if lambs vary in
age and size. There is a tendency for
pickers to disregard length and take out
the brightest wool in each fleece for the
top line, which thus becomes uneven.
Do not sweep lambs’ fleeces along the
board, turning them over and mixing
dags and stain through the bright wool.
Bellies and fribs should be swept from
the shearer and put into the third line.
Pickers should carry only one fleece at
a time and place it on a clean : spot on
the table without turning it over. The
best wool may then be easily and quickly
removed in two or three handfuls. .
It is a good idea for pickers to work
on one end of the table, throwing the
top line to the other, end, ; where the
classer may quickly run through it for
odd stained pieces.-
Producing Argentine Beef.
“Mookau”: Salient points in the pro-
duction of Argentine beef are a continual
flow of imported herd bulls to keep the
bovine shape to British standards and a
'.careful attention to pastures and man-
agement. I
Many breeders have nothing but im-
ported British bulls on their .estancias.
and even .the mqst local-minded import
every second or third year.
Lucerne is the heart of the feeding
•system, and rye and oats are autumrr-
vsown for the benefit of weaned calves.
Tor-topping off / steers grazed * lucerne
with sorghum is a favorite fodder, and
among grasses prairie and couch- are
popular. t .; - ,
- The Argentine carries more than twice
as many cattle as Australia —32,250,000.
Sixty per cent, are Shorthorns. The
zebu, which has been much advertised in
Australia, recently, lias 'proved a failure.
He does not give the compact body
which the export market needs.
' Early-maturing technique is on differ-
ent lines from'the usual practice in Aus-
tralia. Heifers are mated as early as
possible. Except in poor country two
calvings, spring and autumn, are the
rule, this ensuring continuity of supply.
The autumn drop is put straight on to
oats or rye at weaning, which is.delayed
as long as possible. It is not extraordi-
nary for calves to stay with their dams
till the latter calve again, but most go
off the teat at from eight to ten months.
A common accessory on Argentine
estancias is the weighbridge. Sellers are
thereby able to match their sale stock
by weight, and the result is a matching
so perfect that it is difficult sometimes to
distinguish any difference between car-
casses.
The ride-’em-cowboy style of droving
is not favored, and early dehorning,
being universal, seems to make for
docility. Any prime chiller with horns
may as well stay away from market, but
breeding females are often allowed to
retain their defences.
Marketing arrangements are in ad-
vance of Australian, except in yard
organisation. With the weighbridge in
use, sales being on a live-weight basis,
there is little guesswork in the open
market, where bidding is per kilo l.w.
Export lots are, of course, mainly bought
on the estancias.
Surprisingly, the home-consumption
market is twice as big as the export
market. Only 11,000,000 Argentinos get
through 5,000,000 head of cattle a year.
The Care of Pigs.
“Tryit”: Pigs need to be kept well-
housed, warm and clean. Dirty sties,
'badly drained, prevent pigs from doing
well, especially the young litters. Let
plenty of sunlight into their shelters.
If a pig dies in the sty, try to find out
the cause at once; also, remove any pigs
that are in the sty. Then disinfect
thoroughly. Burn the carcass.
Strict care is necessary with house
scraps, as sometimes soap goes out with
them, a certainty to start swine fever.
Even soapy water is dangerous.
BoiL all offal; this especially applies
-to anything that has died in the pad-
dock. Don’t use dead meat unless fresh,
-and never raw.
Provide plenty of good water, and a
wallow for the hot weather. Construct
this of concrete and clean it out periodi-
cally.
Experts recommend a 5 p.c. water solu-
tion of carbolic as a disinfectant for all
purposes.


Your Search for the RIGHT truck
thds Ue\&
iIOTMt
/M
miiiiiiiim
m
W&88&
\ m
r
nr
fc "
ill
International 6-cylmder utility
Smart light delivery unit
Capacious 30-cwt. panel van.
CE
Streamlined passenger coach
Popular type of canopy body
International 4-tonner, stakeside body
One of the six-wheel Internationals.
n
All types of bodies available.
ThE right
truck for you
—whatever your
haulage job may be
—is an International.
Are you handling light
deliveries in town or coun-
try —or both ? International
can equip you with utilities or
half-ton vans, or o‘ne-ton units
for bigger jobs. Do you need a
powerful, good capacity truck for
solid haulage over long or short routes?
—lnternational offers you choice of 30-
cwt., 35-cwt., 2,3, 4or 5-tonners. For
the heaviest truck loads on all roads there
are the giant International six-wheelers. Search
where you may, you’ll never find so compre-
hensive a line of trucks as the International line.
Call on us for details of any model that interests
you. Let us help you to solve your haulage problem.
CHASSIS PRICES from £277 <=>
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER COMPANY
OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
(INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA)
BRISBANE SYDNEY MELBOURNE ADELAIDE PERTH
C 258
INTERNATIONAL
The World’s Best Truck Investment
Concentrates for Pigs.
“Curlew”: Does it pay to feed con-
centrates to pigs if abundance of skim-
or buttermilk is available?
Many years ago, when I had the hand-
ling of large quantities of skim-milk, I
had to buy pigs (suckers mostly) and
bring them to 701 b. to 1001 b. In cold
weather the pigs would not consume
enough milk, neat, to make rapid gains,
so 1 fed different foods, mostly barley
and pollard. The latter I found much
more satisfactory than whole, plain or
even boiled grain.
I had little fault to find with returns,
provided I had the porkers right at 701 b.
to 801 b. and got them on the market
then. To carry them to 901 b. or 1001 b.
dressed meant a lower price per pound,
and the extra food consumed meant a
loss.
At recent Melbourne sales some
prices quoted were: 681 b., 395. 6d. (7d.
per pound); 761 b., 425. (6.7 d.); 801 b.,
425. 6d. (6.37 d.); 961 b„ 48s. 6d. (6d.);
1101 b., 50s. (5.45 d.). The heavier weights
were bought by exporters and were
prime, yet the prices were 5.45 d., 6d.,
6.37 d. per pound, compared with 6.7 d.
and 7d. per pound for lighter pigs. The
lighter pigs would pay for some con-
centrates ; the heavier pigs would show
a loss.
Many experiments have been carried
out, using varying quantities of concen-
trates ; but results rarely get into print.
C. P. McMeekan, of Massey Agricul-
tural College (M.L.), has carried pigs
from the porker stage to about 1401 b.
dressed weight, using buttermilk. Alone,
buttermilk took 62 days: to finish off,
a gain of 4-51 b. per day. This meant
using 87601 b. of milk. Animals fed
|lb. meal per day per 1001 b. liveweight
took days to top off and needed
68801 b. of milk and 1321 b. cereal meal.
Those fed l|lb. meal per 1001 b. live-
weight took 491 days and consumed
60201 b. milk and 2051 b. meal per 1001 b.
gain.
More Butter and Cheese.
“Wundi”: Organisations which cry
out for more export of dairy produce
seem not unlike a cove who stands with
his feet in the creek searching the hori-
zon for water.
Local consumption of butter is about
205,000,0001 b. p.a., or 301 b. per head of
population. M.L., a dairying country,
4olb. per head. Explanation? Be-
cause of dear transport and lack of
refrigeration facilities, a large part of
Australia finds butter an expensive
luxury. To bring per-head consumption
up to Maoriland level would mean an-
other £4,000,000 to the butter trade at
140 s. per cwt.
Cheese consumption in Britain is 91b.
per head. In'most years in Australia, it
is under 41b. To bring it to 71b. per
head would be to wipe out the need for
export on present production.
As pork eaters, Australians and Maori-
landers rank among the English-speak-
ing world’s poorest performers. United
Kingdom people eat about 351 b. of pork
p.h. p.a., excluding ham and bacon.
Canada gets through 661 b. p.h. and
U.S.A. 721 b. Australia’s usage is only
9.31 b. and M.L.’s only 61b.
Largely the reason for that is that we
breed the wrong kind of pork, and breed
it too expensively, the pig being re-
garded here as a hothouse creature, to
be raised intensively in small quantities
instead of under herd conditions.
Toxaemic Jaundice.
“Corriedale”: Sorry to contradict
“Albarmount” (B. 3/3/’37), but jaundice
(Continued on page 44.)


ĺ
Black Box Calf 37/6
Australian Kip ----- 45/-
Selected Willow Calf - * 45/-
A COSSACK
Will Serve
You Best
Built for strength and long wear
the Abbey Cossack will stand
up to the toughest of jobs and
last for years. Made on a wide-
fitting last it will give the com-
fort that is essential for a hard
day’s work.
Leather lined throughout and
made in three first-quality
uppers.
WRITE FOR A CATALOGUE.
ABBEY SHOES
316 GEORGE STREET, 224 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY.
Telegraphic Address: ‘‘ABBEY BOOTS, SYDNEY.”
LICK
VIT
ALL
Oi
WANT
IT
2
BAKER’S DEHORNERS
BAKER’S GOUGE CALF DEHORNER with “cup”
blades for calves under 12 months. Hand-forged
throughout. Length 27in. overall. Price, £4/4/“
N.S.W. Postage, 2/9; Interstate, 5/6.
Smaller Size, £3/18/6.
N.S.W. Postage, 2/-; Interstate, 4/6.
“MIDGET” SCOOP
DEHORNER for scoop-
ing out the buds of calf
horns. Length, 1 6in.
Price, 15/.
Postage, 1/-.
CLOSED
f/BAKERA
OPEN
moo
STUDLOCK (REG.) ALU-
MINIUM SHEEP EAR
LABELS, numbered and
stamped with initials. Price,
15/- per 100
In 500 lots, 12/6 per 100.
Send for Free Illustrated Catalogue.
W. JNO. BAKER p ly „
3 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Ltd.
Australia's Leading Financial Journal .
April Issue Now on Sale.
SHARE AND COMMODITY MARKETS ANALYSED.
RELATIONSHIP OF PARTIES IN UNIT TRUSTS.
LEAD—ZINC—COPPER—TIN.
PRICE 2/- PER COPY, OR £l/2/6 PER ANNUM POSTED.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., 252 George Street, Sydney, and all States.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
JTuTfyitlleZz/rL
WOOL TYPE CARD '
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
is not caused by the same organism as
redwater. Redwater in the North is a
totally different disease from that in the
South, the cause of which is unknown.
Certainly in jaundiced sheep there is a
reddening of the urine, but the reasons
for it are different.
Jaundice is not a disease ; it is a symp-
tom of one or several diseases. The
yellow color of the skin and internal fat
is due to the breakdown of the blood
pigment, haemoglobin, by the organism
or poison concerned. These breakdown
pigments leak out of the blood vessels
into the tissues, staining them yellow.
There is no known cure nor any treat-
ment except, perhaps, a change of pas-
ture and avoiding drenches and footbaths
that contain bluestone. It is quite pos-
sible that the recent very free use of
bluestone is at the root of the trouble.
Grass and Clover Go Together.
“X.T.’’: It is astonishing how few
know why grasses and clovers should be
grown together.
Grasses supply an animal with various
food chemicals gathered from soil and
air. Clovers are nitrogen stores ; they
collect nitrogen from the air through
bacterial action. Grasses have no means
of collecting aerial nitrogen ; they merely
eat that chemical out of the soil.
Clover is part of the dairy feed cycle.
It feeds the grasses and the grasses (plus
some clover) feed the cow. When
grass grows vigorously, clover has to
work hard for its living to keep up the
nitrogen supply; when grass is too
heavily eaten off and becomes thin and
poor, clover rolls up its sleeves, so to
speak, and packs nitrogen into the soil
to help the pasture, to recover.
Preparing Seed Wheat.
“Yeoman”: Sowing the same run of
seed year after year must lead to serious
crop deterioration. A fresh supply of
the best types from one of the State
Agricultural Colleges or from a recog-
nised wheatbreeder is needed every three
or four years.
Grading needs to be done thoroughly ;
it alone can increase the yield by about
10 p.c.
After grading, seed should be treated
for smut. There are three kinds —
stinking smut, or bunt; loose smut; flag
smut. Stinking smut may be controlled
by one of three methods: (1) Soaking
the seed in a solution of 1 pint formalin
to 45gals. water for three minutes; (2)
soaking in a solution of l|lb. bluestone
to lOgals. water for the same period ;
(3) dusting with finely-ground copper
carbonate—loz. to 2oz. per bushel.
Use of formalin involves some risk
of the grain hardening if not sown at
once in damp soil. Bluestone delays
germination, and destroys a percentage
of seed. Copper carbonate dust assures
normal germination. Another advantage
of c.c. is that it allows seed to be graded
and dusted weeks before it is needed.
Neither loose smut rtor flag smut can
be controlled by pickling or dusting.
Seed from a crop showing evidence of
either disease should not be used.
Sending Cotton to Market.
Queensland Agricultural Department
has issued a batch of hints on packing
and forwarding cotton.
Wool bales are preferable, and for a
small fee they will be returned from the
gin after treatment to destroy pink boll
weevil.
Bales which have been used for other
people’s cotton should be carefully
cleaned. A lot of contamination is
caused through poor or diseased seed
lurking in the corners of bales.
Cotton should not be emptied direct
from picking sack into bale. Different
pickers have different standards of work,
and the direct method produces a
“zebra” pack—bands of various grades.
Every cotton-field really needs a grader
as much as a wool-shed needs one ; but
it is enough to separate best cotton
from leafy cotton and both from insect-
ridden, stained or droughty fibre.
Each bale should be carefully branded
with owner’s registered number, initials
and grade indication, and a note should
be sent with the consignment stating the
seed variety used, so that the yield can
be estimated at the ginnery.
Most importantly, there should be no
mixture of varieties in single consign-
ments.
A Plea for Billy.
“C.Q.”: Most Australian regulations
which deal with the goat treat it as a
pest, but there is a. fortune waiting in the
North for somebody who decides to treat
Billy seriously.
The Oriental does not mind eating
goat —neither did the old-timer western
Queenslander. And goat’s milk might
easily be made the basis of a new indus-
try. It is richer in fats and proteins
than average cow’s milk ; and, so long as
they believe it comes from French,
Norwegian and Swiss goats, gourmets
of Sydney and Melbourne will readily
pay good prices for goat cheese.
But Australian Billy is a joke to all
but' a few land men. Most would as
soon think of raising rabbits as the
hardy, docile milk-givers which seem to
thrive on a diet of bark and jam-tins
and which remain sturdy, self-reliant and
disease-free in areas where every other
animal seems to be pest-stricken and
starving.
There is one thing strongly La favor of
Billy for export, since he needs to be
carried to his destination. alive because
of native religious prejudices. When
every other living creature aboard the
lugger is leaning over a strawberry
basket, the goat retains his normal appe-
tite for anything from bits of rigging to
the first mate’s best pants.
Broom-millet Equipment.
“Fancar”: Tell “Hortus” (B. 10/3/’37)
that a broom-millet outfit is not neces-
sarily expensive. A good man with tools
can construct most of it.
My father has grown broom millet
for 30 years and his average price, is
high because, in slump seasons, he kept
his millet to make brooms on the farm.
Though an aged man, he still supplies
many Toowoomba and Darling Downs
stores with brooms.
In addition to a plough, cultivator and
a little oil-engine which would be needed
for general farming, he has a small
planter to work on the plough, another
for use with a maize planter, a thresher
(we call it a hackler or heckler), bale-
maker, broom-making machine and
stitching press. All these are home-
made and not costly.
A neighbor used to borrow Dad’s
plough-planter or sow by hand behind
his own plough. When his millet was
ready to thresh, he and his wife spent a
couple of hours after tea each night
scraping the seeds from the brush with
currycombs. This was slow but effec-
tive. He sold lcwt. or so weekly, taking
it to the factory in his spring cart. Hav-
ing no facility for baling he tied the
millet in handy armfuls.
He claimed to make money out of
millet even by such slow methods.
Hints for the Farm.
“Zedo”: In a country with so much
land suitable for peanuts, it’s a wonder
more attention isn’t given to peanut
meal as cattle fodder. Kingaroy (Q.)
farmers crush both shell and nut to meal
consistency. With 35 p.c. protein con-
tent, it ranks with linseed meal.
“Sandy”: A good treatment for scour
in a horse is to starve him for about 12
hours, then give a bran mash and, an
hour later, pint of linseed oil with
14oz. of oil of turpentine added. Take
care that none of the mixture goes down
his windpipe. Next morning give him a
good feed with a teaspoon of one part
sulphate of iron to two parts gentian,
both powdered, mixed into it. Make up
lllb. of the mixture and give it all before
stopping treatment.
“Lam” : At the present rate of decrease
there will be scarcely any flow in Central
and N.W. Queensland bores by 1970,
and in N. S. Wales west of the Gwydir
and east of the Darling the average out-
put is about 20 p.c. less than in 1924. A
good many are coughing up only halt
the water that they produced in 1914.
And what are we going to do about it.
At present the national scheme seems
to be to wait to see what happens.
“X.T.”: This looks as if it is going
to be a bumper year for rabbiters. Up
to 3s. a pound has been paid for skins.


f
><*{“% /;4 " '**'*
■■ I . ' *' ~
\ '', ,7« < - i* | /, *
*’ w
• •' ,v l d\ * „/
awn
ms
V
%
%
27 m 1/9 %
60 Pills 2/9
Women!
OR over 25 years women throughout
*■ Australia have relied upon Dr. Sheldon’s
Gin Pills to banish their sufferings from
Backache, Rheumatism, Pains in the Sides,
and other complaints originating from the
Kidneys. Why not let them do this for
you, too?
You can take Gin Pills with every confidence,
as they contain no harsh irritants or harmful
ingredients and cannot help but benefit you.
You can absolutely rely on —
How to fight
FLVSCOLDS
’Flu and Colds are again very prevalent.
Your best weapon with which to fight ’Flu-
Colds is Double “D” Eucalyptus, for Cold
Germs simply cannot live when they come
in contact with the powerful antiseptic vapors
of this pure, strong Eucalyptus.
In the following Double “D” Eucalyptus
3-Way Treatment the germicidal
vapors are brought right in contact
with the ’Flu-Cold Germs in the
nose, mouth, throat and bronchial
tubes, and will break up the most
severe attack of ’flu in record time.
Double “D” is the highest
grade, purest and strongest Euca-
lyptus sold in Australia. For your
own safety demand it, and take no other.
ļ
TAKE
3 drops of Double
“D” on a lump of
sugar.
RUB chest and back thor-
oughly with Double
“D.”
INHALE 15 drops of Double
“D” in a jug of hot
water before retiring.
DoubleD
vucahffttud fxttact
Small Size 9d.
Large Size 1/3
ai
m
0f
:*; p v
\
Jy { '&
-v *** :
a: „
THE PURE, STRONG EUCALYPTUS WITH THE SWEET, FRESH SMELL


V hort Story
Qy c Writing
tyree Lance
Journalism
Learn and Earn The most thorough and practical
in Spare Time ! Course of Training ever written!
Instruction and Constructive Criticism by Practical
Journalists and Short Story Writers . . . You learn
how to write and how to sell your stories and articles.
Full details sent on application to
I.C.S. School of Journalism
140 Elizabeth Street, Sydney
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. laaxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq.. O.M.G.
General Manager—M. G. HAYMEN.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 97
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the W orld, tnu
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business^
Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Young lady, Sydney, typist, requires typing
work. —5358.
Signwriter, carpenter, painter, Sydney, owns
Ford V8 utility truck in good order, willing to
give services self and car. Would be useful to
contractor. —5351.
Businessman wants educated sporting man
as companion, share modest holiday expenses
three months on island convenient to North
Queensland city.—5399.
Well-educated Tasmanian girl (20), shorthand
and typewriting, offers services as secretary or
other capacity in travelling position.—5386.
Educated bachelor (over 50), six years’ exp.
outback N.S.W., desires change to Queensland
as family tutor; English (general and classic),
music (violin, piano theory, harmony), golf,
etc. —5394.
Partner wanted to assist on 20-acre gold lease.
Trial crushing gave half-ounce per ton; 10-head
stamper battery installed; all cash to go in
plant.—5348.
To buy Highways and Byways of Somerset,
by Edward Hutton, and Royal Academy Illus-
trated, 1928— 5340.
To buy copy of publication “Beautiful
Manly,” issued about 1880. —5344.
To buy “National Geographic Magazine” for
July, 1935, in good order.—5347.
Words of war-time verse “I Had Charge
of the Rum.”—5357.
Information Sought.
Details of payments made to members of
the royal family during the reign of the ex-
King? What is the usual practice regarding
such payments? —5413.
Annuities payable to the sovereign and mem-
bers of the royal family, known as the Civil
List, are granted by Parliament on the recom-
mendation of a Select Committee; the annual
payments to King George V. and to King
Edward VII. amounted to £470,000, and addi-
tional sums were granted to other members
of the family. Currently the King’s annuity
(including salaries, retiring allowances and ex-
penses of household) is £410,000; Queen Mary,
£70,000; Duke of Gloucester, £23,800; Duke
of Kent, £23,800; Duke of Connaught, £23,800;
the Princess Royal (Countess of Harewood),
Princess Louise (Duchess of Argyll), Princess
Beatrice and the Queen of Norway, £5700 each.
* * * *
(1) Findings of the Royal Commission which
inquired into the settlement in Vic. of English
migrants? (2) Why did the venture fail? (3)
Was the money put into the scheme by those
English settlers returned with interest ? (4)
Would returned soldiers vacating unsuitable sec-
tions received when repatriated have any com-
pensation chances ? —5154.
(1) and (2) Details are contained in the re-
port of the Royal Commission on Migrant
Settlement, copy of which can be obtained
from the Government Printer, Melbourne.
Briefly, it was found that the settlers, who
came out largely as a result of optimistic
Government publicity, were given insufficient
preliminary training and received sections not
only too small in area but often unsuitable
for the purposes for which they were allocated.
(3) According to evidence, the average com-
pensation did not equal the average amount
brought to Australia by the settlers. Amounts
received were £200 in the case of a single
man, £300 for a married man or a widower
with one child and an additional £50 for
each dependent child, with a maximum of
£500. Copy of the Vic. Government’s Adjust-
ment Act (No. 4143, November, 1933) can be
obtained from the Government Printer. (4)
Apply Repatriation Department.
* * * *
What males are liable for service on juries
in N.S.W. ? What males are exempted from
service ? —5429.
Any male resident above the age of 21 with
a clear yearly income of £30 or more from real
and personal estate or with real and personal
estate' of the value of £300 or more is liable.
Principal exceptions are foreign subjects whose
term of residence is less than seven years, and
persons attainted of treason or felony. Men
especially exempt include Judges, members of
Parliament, certain public officers, Federal civil
servants, members of the defence forces, em-
ployees of the State Government, clergymen,
barristers, solicitors, magistrates, police officers,
doctors, dentists, chemists, schoolmasters, cer-
tain employees of banks and incapacitated
persons.
❖ * * *
Some months ago I bought an article at a
Melbourne auction sale and gave the receipt to
a carrier; when the carrier called for the article
a week later it had gone. The auctioneers
offered to refund my money if I produced the
receipt, but the carrier had lost the receipt.
Have I any redress, and is there a carriers’
association to which / could report the matter?
—5359.
If the carrier explained, in your company,
that he had mislaid the receipt, the auctioneer
would probably refund your money without
further question, especially if the carrier regu-
larly operates from his sales. There are a
number of carriers’ associations; you could
try the Light Carriers’ Association, 227 Latrobe-
street, Melbourne, or have a talk with the
managers of the several carriers’ exchanges
listed in the Melbourne telephone directory.
* * if *
Detailed list of killed and wounded for the
British Empire during the war ? —4BBO.
Great Britain and Ireland, 812,317 killed,
1,849,494 wounded; Canada, 62,817 killed,
166,105 wounded; Australia, 60,456 killed,
154,722 wounded; Maoriland, 18,212 killed,
45,946 wounded; South Africa, 9032 killed,
17,843 wounded; Newfoundland, 1609 killed,
3628 wounded; Crown Colonies, 52,044 killed,
78,535 wounded; India, 73,432 killed, 84,715
wounded.
* * * *
Particulars about the Surprise, the first steam-
ship launched in N. S. Wales? —5410.
The paddle steamer Surprise was built at
Neutral Bay by Henry Gilbert, and launched
March 31, 1831; her engines were installed
July, 1831. She was 81ft. long, with a 10-h.p.
engine, and was originally used in the Sydney-
Parramatta River service; afterwards she was
in the Hobart-Sydney trade.
* * * *
Particulars of career of Goring, the Nazi
Minister for Air? —5203.
General Hermann Goring, born 1893, served
as a flying officer during the war, being a
member of Richthofen’s Squadron and, after
the death of Richthofen, the leader. A knight
“Pour le merite,” he organised the Swedish
Air Services, 1920-21; was wounded in the
Munich “Putsch,” 1923, after which he lived
abroad for a time; became a member of the
Reichstag, 1928, and President, 1932; Prussian
Prime Minister and Minister for the Interior
and Reich Minister for Air, 1933; appointed
Prussian State Council, and organised the
Political Police, 1933. In 1934 he represented
Germany at the funeral of King Alexander of
Yugoslavia at Belgrade. His home is in Berlin.
* * * *
What are the duties of the Attorney-General
and the Minister of Justice in N. S. Wales ?
5416.
The Attorney-General, the legal adviser of
the Government, is charged with the conduct
of business relating to the higher courts (such
as Supreme and District Courts), the offices of
the Crown Solicitor, Crown Prosecutors, Clerk
of the Peace, Parliamentary draftsmen and
court reporters, as well as statute law consoli-
dation and certain Acts, including the Crimes
Act, the Poor Prisoners’ Defence Act and the
Poor Persons’ Legal Remedies Act. He corre-
sponds with other Ministers on questions of
State on which his legal opinion is required,
and with Judges on matters within his control,
initiates and defends proceedings by and
against the State, and determines whether
prosecution lies in case of indictable offences.
The Minister of Justice supervises the workings
of the magistrates’ courts, of gaols and penal
establishments, also the operations of the various
offices connected with the Supreme and District
Courts. He administers Acts of Parliament
relating to justice, juries, coroners, prisons and
prisoners, landlords and tenants, inebriates,
real property, land titles, registration of firms,
companies and deeds, births, deaths and mar-
riages, and licensed trades and callings.
* . * * :Jl
In what circumstances was the Suspension
Bridge at North Sydney built? —5419.
During the late ’eighties a syndicate, of
which Lord Carrington was a member, bought
a large block of land on the Middle Harbor
heights, and the bridge was erected in order
to facilitate sales. Later the land changed
hands, and the new owner gave the bridge to
the Government on condition that the tramline
was extended from Amherst-street to North-
bridge. The line was completed in November,
1912.
* * * *
(1) Were any newspapers published by the
New Australia colonists in Paraguay? (2) Are
copies available for inspection in Sydney? —
5422.
(1) They issued a manuscript journal, “Cosme
Evening Notes.” It was read aloud every
evening except Sundays for the first four years,
after which it became a weekly. The “Cosme
Monthly,” a four-page octavo newspaper, was
issued from the founding of the colony (1894)
until 1903, when it changed its name to
“Cosme” for a few issues, and came out as a
quarterly. It was printed in the colony and
mailed away for propaganda purposes. (2)
Yes, at the Mitchell Library.
* * * *
(1) When did Cook land at Botany Bay (a)
according to his logbook, (b) according to cor-
rect reckoning ? (2) On the same basis, when
did he land on Possession Island ? (3) When
did he take possession of N. S. Wales? —5440.
(1) According to the logbook, April 29, 1770,
which would be the afternoon of April 28,
civil time, because the nautical time began at
noon and was 12 hours ahead of the civil day.
But after crossing the 180th meridian from east
to west he did not correct his time by putting
forward the date one day, so his reckoning was
out by one day. Thus the logbook should
have read: April 30 (nautical time), April 29
(civil time). (2) August 22, 1770 (corrected
date). (3) Same occasion and date.
* * # jj:
(1) Were the Tasmanian abos. related to the
mainland blacks? (2) How many were there
estimated to be in Tas. when the English
arrived? (3) Who was the last of the tribe
and date of death? (4) Circumstances leading
up to the unsuccessful rounding-up of them by
an early Governor ? —5435.
(1) No. Besides differing in physical charac-
teristics the Tasmanians were more primitive.
(2) About 2000. (3) Trucanini, a female, the
last proven pure-blood, died on May 8, 1876.
(4) Made desperate by brutal ill-treatment at
the hands of sealers and convict stockmen, the
natives murdered some settlers in 1820. Their
leader, a N.S.W. abo., was eventually hanged.
But as murders by blacks of whites became
more frequent, Governor Arthur sent 3000 men
in September, 1830, to capture the Oyster Bay
and Big River natives. For seven weeks this
army marched down the east coast of Tas.,
aiming to drive the tribes on to East Bay neck.
This drive cost £35,000, and one woman and
one boy were captured. They had been caught
asleep under a log.
* * * *
Is Taylor a Scottish name? Can you give
particulars ? —5285.
Families of Scottish birth bearing this name
are classed as a sept of the Clan Cameron,
claiming as their ancestor Taillear dubh na
tuaighe (the black tailor of the axe), who lived
in the seventeenth century. A natural son of
Ewen Cameron, the fourteenth chief of Lochiel,
his mother being a daughter of the chief of
MacDougall, he was put to nurse with a tailor’s
wife of Lundavra, from which circumstance apd
from his dark coloring and skill with the
Lochaber axe his name was derived. His
strength, bravery and resourcefulness in battle
are a matter of clan history. In the eighteenth
century the family group was known as Mac-
an-taillear (son of the tailor), later shortened
to Tailor or Taylor.
* * * *
A recent Australian film was banned in
London on account of a stockwhip fight be-
tween the hero and the villain. To what extent
are such duels known in the backblocks ? —
5381.
Stockwhip duels belong almost entirely to
the realm of fiction. Two whip experts mounted
on stock horses could inflict a lot of damage
on each other, but in the hands of a man on
foot the stockwhip is only effective while the
opponent can be kept at the extent of the lash.
Only a mug would stop there when one jump
closer to the wielder would place him out
of danger of the thong.
* * * x
I understand that the relative magnitude of
certain N. S. Wales inland rivers, as shown by
the average annual volume of water which they
carry, . has been ascertained from the records
of river gaugings extending back many years.
Name of such rivers, location of gauging
stations and distance of gauging stations from
source of river, drainage area and average
annual run-off of water of each? —5415.
Murray: Gauging station, Tocumwal, 435
miles from source of river; drainage area,
10,160 square miles; average annual run-off of
water, 5,041,900 acre-feet. Murrumbidgee:
Wagga Wagga (396 miles); 10,700 square miles;
2,892,000 acre-feet. (The operation of the
Hume and Burrinjuck storages affected the
natural run-off from the catchment areas at
Tocumwal and Wagga Wagga since 1929 and
1914 respectively.) Darling: Menindie (1383
miles); 221,700 square miles; 1,565,400 acre-
feet. Lachlan: Condobolin (380 miles); 10,420
square miles; 477,800 acre-feet. Namoi: Narra-
bri (302 miles); 9820 square miles; 519,100
acre-feet. In making the comparison, gauging
stations have been selected with drainage areas
of approximately equal extent, except for the
Darling. For the Lachlan the average run-off
at Forbes, 126 miles above Condobolin, is
637,800 acre-feet per annum. An acre-foot of
water is such a quantity as would cover an
acre of land to a uniform depth of one foot.
* * * *
(1) What Australian State exports most tan-
ning bark ? (2) Textbooks on tanning and
leather-dressing ? —5451.
(1) South Australia. (2) H. R. Proctor’s
Principles of Leather Manufacture and Leather
Industries Laboratory Book; M. C. Lamb’s
Leather Dressing and Chrome Tanning; J. T.
Wood’s Puering, Batting and Drenching of
Skins; A. S. Jones’s Sheep and Its Skin; A.
Wilson’s Chemistry of Tanning; W. E. Austin’s
Fur Dressing and Fur Dyeing.
* * * *
(1) Names and addresses of wholesale dis-
tributors of lead chanel, used for making cabinet
leadlights? (2) Cost ? (3) Any agents in W.A.?
—5362.
(1) Sydney Lead Works, 741 Botany-road,
Waterloo, N.S.W.; W. Coop, 217 Latrobe-
street, Melbourne, C.l; Agencies Pty., 284 Eliza-
beth-street, Brisbane (Box 164 C, G.P.0., Bris-
bane). (2) Price in Sydney, about 61s. 3d.
per cwt. free of sales tax, less p.c. if accounts
are paid monthly. (3) Try Perth Leadlight and
Glazing Cos., 5 Raphael-street, Subiaco, Perth,
or Beckley and Cos., 473 Hay-street, Perth.
* * * *
Some particulars regarding the blackfish
whale? —5195.
The blackfish, pilot or ca’ing whale (Globio-
cephalus melas), of wide distribution, is char-
acterised by its rounded (almost globular) head,
its long back-fin and long, narrow flippers.
There are from eight to 12 small teeth on each
side of the upper and lower jaws. Largest
specimens are about 20ft. long. There is a
skull of one in the Queensland Museum.
* * * *
What tackle do I require for black-bream
fishing in Sydney Harbor? —5345.
Most satisfactory outfit would be No. 3 or
No. 4 gut, 80 yards; No. 103 casts; size 1/0
hooks, fine steel. Fish with a sinker as small as
possible, and if the tide allows it none at all.
Have the bottom hook rigged about 18in. below
the sinker, which should be of the running type.
The best tide is from half-in to half-out, and
the most satisfactory baits are prawns and
mullet gut.
* * * *
(1) How can the native shrub lime be identi-
fied ? (2) What is its botanical name? —slßo.
It is a much-branched shrub, armed with
horizontal spines. The fruit, which- is like a
sloe, about half an inch long, contains a milky
juice and is edible. The wood is hard and
clear, and works well. Along the grain are
a number of white, pithy streaks which give
it a dotted appearance. (2) Carissa brownii.
Brief Answers.
A.M.C.: The third British Empire Forestry
Conference was held in Australia and M.L. in
1928, and the fourth in S. Africa in 1935. Pub-
lications issued in connection with these con-
ferences are available on application to the
various Commonwealth and State forestry
authorities... .C. 8.: Write Royal Horticultural
Society, Vincent-square, Westminster, London.
G.P.: (1) and (3) Yes, a mortgage is a
conveyance or transfer of land by a debtor
to his creditor as security for repayment of
money borrowed, subject to a proviso for the
reconveyance of the land on payment being
made. (2) Default by a first mortgagor does
not affect the mortgagee’s rights under a second
mortgage. (4) Not aware of any simple and in-
expensive handbook... .R.S.T.: (1) A police
magistrate has power to nonsuit if in his
opinion the plaintiff has failed to make out a
legal cause of action. (2) An agreement must
be stamped in accordance with law before it
can be produced in court as evidence. (3)
You could communicate with the local M.P.
asking him to bring the matter under the notice
of the Department of Justice A.M.W.: You
should read the document to the witness and
ask him if it is correct; if so, make him
sign it in your presence and then witness the
signature. The Court has held that the con-
tents should be read by the J.P A.M.L.:
(1) The Landlord and Tenant (Rent-reduction)
Act 1932 (S.A.) provided that any lessee under
a lease existing at the commencement of the
Act could apply to a local Court at any time
during the currency of his lease, but not later
than three years from the commencement of the
Act, for a reduction of the rent payable under
his lease. Apparently you have allowed your
claim to lapse. (2) Not at present; small goods
such as you refer to have for a long time past
been exempted... .J. 8.: Write Prime Minis-
ter’s Department, Canberra, F.C.T P.W.:
(1) Yes, you should register as proprietor by
transmission. (2) You could do so, but better
have the services of a solicitor... .A. 8.: For
the financial year 1935-36 the amount required
to be placed to the credit of the N.S.W. Gov-
ernment Railways superannuation account to
meet claims was £392,087 17s. 7d., of which
£311,300 was contributed from the Govern-
ment railways fund, and the balance of
£80,787 17s. 7d. from the funds of the Com-
missioner for Road Transport and Tramways.
G.E.A.: Difficult to obtain publications
dealing with the building of a log cabin. The
N.S.W. Bookstall Cos., corner Market and
Castlereagh streets, Sydney, will obtain one
from abroad if you write to them... .R.H.H.:
The Scotch Terrier, by McCandlish (Bs. 3d.
posted), obtainable from the “Dog World of
Australasia,” 16 Bridge-street, Sydney
J.W.W.: See “Nine Miles from Gundagai,” by
Jack Moses, published in his book Beyond the
City Gates J.F.: Write Registrar of Births,
Deaths and Marriages, 283 Queen-street, Mel-
bourne E.H.C.: Write Department of Agri-
culture, Sydney E.N.G.: The fire that de-
stroyed the Cumberland Paper Mills, Lane
Cove, Sydney, occurred on October 7, 1928
R.G.8.: Try “Sydney Morning Herald,” 38
Hunter-street, Sydney J.M.: Obsidian is a
volcanic glass, usually black. It has no com-
mercial value... .E.S.M.: The fire at Anthony
Horderns’, Haymarket, Sydney, occurred on
July 10, 1901... .C.H.: Seeds of cacti may be
procured from Ernst Benary, seedgrower,
Erfurt, Germany. Seed of *cacti and succu-
lents, particularly the latter, may be procured
from W. T. Neale, F.R.H.S., Meeching Rise
Nurseries, First-avenue, New Haven, Sussex,
England A.A.N.: Inquiries should be ad-
dressed to the respective Governments
A.L.J.: There are 284 street miles of tramway
and 559 miles of single track in London, com-
pared with 168.5 street miles and 304.5 track
miles in Sydney... .W.J.C.: Official Year-Book
of N. S. Wales (paper 55., cloth 7s. 6d.), obtain-
able from N.S.W. Government Printer, Bent-
street, Sydney S.H.C.: No, he must respect
the patentee’s rights... .J.D.: (1) and (2) The
only reliable information you can get is from
the department through which you receive your
present pension; you should write to it. (3)
No; the will must be properly drawn and
witnessed. If it is only a simple disposition
of all your real and personal estate to your
wife, a will-form, which can be bought at a
stationer’s shop for sixpence, may suffice, pro-
vided you follow the instructions strictly with
regard to witnessing, etc. If you go beyond
this you should have it drafted by a solicitor.
....J.S.: Section 158 of the N.S.W. Local
Government Act provides for an extra charge
of 5 p.c. per annum on overdue rates
F.S.: Your wife should be able to give you
the address. Candor is the best course. Write
and inform the company that the fact you
mention was not known to your wife at the
time she took out the policy. Probably it will
not affect its validity... .K.W.8.: (1) Copyright
subsists in every original literary, dramatic,
musical and artistic work first published in
Australia or elsewhere in the British Empire.
(2) It is infringed by any person who, without
the consent of the owner of the copyright, does
anything the sole right to do which vests in
such owner. But any fair dealing with such
work for the purpose of criticism, review or
newspaper summary does not constitute an in-
fringement of copyright. A mere acknowledg-
ment of the source from which it is drawn
does not excuse a breach of copyright L.A.:
He might appear in person and apply to the
Court to do so, showing special grounds for
the delay H.D.: (1) 12 gauge is the stand-
ard and most widely-used for shotguns
for both the field and traps. (2) You
do not state whether the shoot is live or
clay birds. (3) No records of a “duck shoot
available. The bag limit is 20 birds R.D.:
The actress who played the part of the fair-
haired girl in “Tale of Two Cities” was Isabel
Jewell... .R.C.: Five Grand Guignol Plays and
More Grand Guignol Plays (3s. 9d. each) ob-
tainable from Will Andrade, 173 Pitt-street,
Sydney... .H.F.: The address of Jules Romains
is 25 Avenue Pierre de Serbie, Paris, XVI.
France... .T.L.: “Book Collector’s Quarterly
(copy 35.), 6 Little Russell-street, London, W.C.
(Many others mailed.)


WRITERS!
Freelancing and Short Story Courses
include Editorial Criticism and Place-
ment details.
METROPOLITAN SCHOOL
r ‘ l);l,l, v Sl ” OF JOURNALISM
Commercial Art
AV L eam fascinating well paid !
profession at home from 16 noted
artists. Tor beautifully illustrated
ill literature FREE write to Dept- B
Trainins Institute
i*\Swanslon St Melbourne
M
ESTABLISHED 1834.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4,300,000 0 0
(Used wholly in the business)
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
Directors:
James Ashton (Chairman), Edward R. Knox, Owen E. Friend,
Sir Wm. Vicars, C.8.E., Orwell Phillips.
General Manager: C. Darvall.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout:
New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, South Australia,
and at Canberra, Federal Territory.
Agents throughout the World.
A man’s best friend
is his
VALET
i
Q
A razor that goes on year in, year out
that gives a keen new edge tor every
shave —that saves time in the morning
that saves no end of money in blades
isn't that a friend of man? That's the
"Valet" Auto Strop. Every man can
enjoy the speed, the comfort, the
economy of "Valet" shaving. This razor,
so easy to operate, so reliable in use,
was the original self-stropping razor
and it's still the simplest and the best.
mt
V-
No. 55 NICKEL SET. —In highly polished nickelled case lined with velvet.
The set comprises a self-stropping "Valet" razor, three "Valet" blades <4*%/
and a strop of good quality in hinged container. Price ■ "
OTHER SETS FROM 4/6 to 65/- • OF ALL DEALERS • BRITISH MADE
Managing Agents for Australia:
PHIPSON & COMPANY LIMITED, 181 Clarence Street, Sydney
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
R D • A collection of rough, harsh words that
. n .. " . mP „ n much ETS • “The
dont seem to mn m U ch.-..E.1.b.. in
Land of Down Below got were-.. .
Quite passable verse, but you give u
to the identity of the brass-hat who could ou -
roar Allenby and Ryrie E.J.8.: The price
of spuds hardly lends itself to a lyrical lilt.
G.T.C.: It might be an acrostic or a cross-
word puzzle, but it certainly isn’t intelligible
verse E.C.H.: Not far off, but the theme is
a little too hackneyed... .F.M.: Quite correct
as verse; sorry we haven’t a corner for that
sort of pastoral....A.H.: It’s a bit off our
beat... .E. 8.: To be quite candid, it is a long
way from passing muster. You don’t say any-
thing worth putting into cold type... .E.D.:
Of no value whatever. You can’t rhyme....
E.C.: A dreadfully wooden rhyme... .J.O’C.:
Better wait for the next war . J P.: Not even
Anzac Day could carry that past... .H.M.C..
Strained and a trifle unchivalrous... .E.S.S.:
If you can’t improve on that, leave dictators
and dictatorships to their own fate L.W.:
U hasthevirtue of legihiiity/ nothingmoi'e
H.R (London): “Enclosed is a poem I
have spent some delightful hours over. More
K TeadfnT 80 'w * ' makeS
haid leading W.R.McK..
“I’m going back to Bundaberg this autumn
To see Dad and Mum.”
Off with you, then T.P.W.: Ragged and
disorderly verse... .K.M.: A fair hit at morbid
sensationalism, but it scarcely makes a poem
N.C.: Quite right, we buy pieces of poetry,
but not that sort.... L.T.: “The Bell on Hell
Shoal” not for us, though you should place it;
other not up... .R. 8.8.: Cracksman who fell
in love with policewoman and gave her a ring
he’d lifted deserved all he got C.A.: Under-
weight S.E.H.: Nothing new J.E.L.:
Can’t turn the “sympathetic ear” to that....
J.S.C.: No corner for Franz and his “gentle
Wonda”... .1.D.: Charming, but not to our
taste....H.G.: You don’t make a yarn of it.
. ...E.J.P.: Nor you; though there’s an idea
in it.... J.A.M.: An unimaginative account;
it’s not storytelling... .J.H.: Feel with you, but
can't use your dissertation on livers... . F.W.:
Might suit a Children’s Page... .J.W.: Yours
a 150... .K.M.S.: No smiles in that... .G. 8.:
“Gale succeeded gale; the vessel rolling heavily,
the decks being continuously flooded with salt
water.” Remarkable!... .K.F.C.: Don’t think
much of your “sound newspaperman whose
eyes and mind never ceased to rove and search.”
....J.F.K.: Sam says nothing that hasn’t been
said bef0re....E.0.5.: Obvious... .A.J.M.:
Neat, but it doesn’t grip... .S.T.: Stunn didn’t
raise a grin... .R.L.: “On the books under the
name of Daniel Sullivan, he talked like an
Irish immigrant, his wages were 20s. per day,
an oiler only, but in Canberra F.T., and other
places, the man called Dan Sullivan was known
as Major John Peters of the Commonwealth
Intelligence Department. Agents and spies ol
foreign espionage became pale and dry-lipped
if, and when, they heard that name.” Surely
not Archie in disguise!... .E.A.F.: Not up....
M.F.: We’re always scared of “a pregnant
hush” and “the forest monarch”... .Vijo: Not
interested in your “archaeological visit to a
haunt of the aboriginals”... .W.1.C.: It’s an
old tale H.R.: And there's nothing new in
yours.... J.A.D.: Yes, we believe y0u....
K.A.J.: Not even a grin... .J.E.: Hopeless.
B.W.: No place to record your “Lover’s
Strategy.”
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
J. 8.: Why present Jacky like a stranded
nigger minstrel?... .A.V.S.: Good idea of
proportion and composition but harsh, heavy
linework... .T.C.: The office medico pro-
nounced the drawing dead.... R.P.: You, too,
have turned in a corpse... .J.N.A.: Grave-
diggers’-strike cartoon is too much of a night-
mare G.W.: Found a corner for it—in the
basket F.L.: The lad shows promise, but
he must take lessons... .S.S.T.: The beer
bottle’s retort to the teapot didn’t raise a smile.
. ...W.H.: You’re better with the pen than
with the brush, but you still have a lot to
learn A.C.: No demand for stiff head
studies and antiquated jokes H.G.R.:
Couldn’t sort out the figures from the decora-
tions, and the gag is on its last legs P.W.:
The crowd in the foreground has an inexplic-
able list to starboard, and the idea is point-
less E.D.C.: Look us up again; work shows
signs of improvement... .T.H.L.: Slapdash art,
but promising; humor is feeble... .A.M.G.:
Those bearded derelicts resemble the invention
of an American magazine artist W.P.: No,
we do not offer a “weekly prize for the best pic-
ture of a statesman”... .J.S.J.: Blots, smudges,
crazy lines and an infantile sense of humor.
C.T.L.: Drunk at dressmaker’s shop
window is an old friend... .J.O’R.: Won this
week’s booby prize by a neck....K.8.: What’s
wrong with it? Everything 11. D.: No use
for adventures of Mabel and Joan... .W.A.:
Imitating another man’s style won’t carry you
far S.C.D.: The inartistic needn’t waste
time on drawings when we are prepared to
buy gags alone H.T.: You’ve picked up
some of the tricks of the game, but you still
have a lot to learn A.N.: “I’m sure 1 can
draw as well as most of your artists.” Well
why don’t you?
A MIXED GRILL.
“Old Red”: The revelation that a
great cocking main has been held in
France, where the sport is legal, has
roused the English R.S.P.C.A. to fury.
Cockfighting has been introduced to the
French by perfidious Albion ; belligerent
fowls are bred in the North of England
and exported to France. The R.S.P.C.A.
has 200 inspectors on the job hunting
for news of cockfights. There is no
power to prevent the export of cocks,
especially as they are often indented as
“singing birds.”
* * * *
“Bray Rock”: A name is being sought
for the new Commonwealth fisheries in-
vestigation vessel now under construc-
tion in Melbourne. In view of Molong-
loside opinion as to the uselessness of
Australian fish for canning, and its un-
suitability for army and navy consump-
tion, Senator McLachlan might remem-
ber Oscar Wilde’s definition of fox-
hunting, and suggest to his colleagues
that she be named “The Unspeakable.”
After all, her destined purpose is the
pursuit of what our Mr. Parkhill con-
siders as the uneatable.
# ifc jfc Jfc
Forgan Smith was right in saying that
Queensland is making greater strides in
population than any other Australian
State. Last year (pop. 980,000 at Dec.
31) its natural increase was 10,162 ; Vic-
toria, with nearly twice the population,
could show an increase of only 10,105.
They have room to breed in Queensland.
* * * =s=
“F.L.R.”: “Tibby,” the newspaper
seller at the corner of Castlereagh-street'
and Martin-place, Sydney, has been sup-
plying me with The Bulletin for just
40 years. I think he deserves a bonus.
** * *
Shareholders in three dozen Trans-
vaal goldmines received over £17,250,000
sterling in divs. for 1936 against
£16,500,000 for 1935 and £9,000,000 for
1932. The gold yield of the whole Trans-
vaal fields last year was 11,500,0000 z.,
or a shade below the 1932 record of
11,553,0000 z. In 1936 over 48,000,000
tons, averaging only 4idwt., was
crushed.
Charmingly coincident with the news
that the Stalinists have grabbed another
lot of “comrades” for further exhibitions
of Soviet justice is the report that the
same gentry have “extended unlimited
facilities to Prof. Brucholenko for his
experiments in resuscitating dead dogs.”
The professor distinguishes between final
and non-final death, and states that, as long
as the tissues are not destroyed, life can be
restored. He believes his methods will be
applicable to human beings.
They will never be applicable to chaps
condemned at Soviet trials. Once the
bullet of Soviet “justice” finds its billet
in the back of the head, death is most
definitely “final.”
* * * *
“Hesper”: T don't know from where
“Ike Hollar” obtained his figures about
the migrations of Tristan da Cunha
islanders (B. 7/4/’37), but it is hard to
believe that 55 of them “transferred
themselves elsewhere” in the latter half
of last century. In 1830 there were
hardly a score of souls there, and such
additions in population as were received
in the next few decades consisted mostly
of shipwrecked sailors and deserters
from whalers. Even in the ’seventies
and ’eighties (on the authority of the
Encyc. Brit.) the tally never reached
three figures, and it’s less than 150 now.
But latest advices from the remote speck
of land mention the possibility of a
wholesale exodus at an early date —not
to the Cape or Europe, but to Inacces-
sible Island, the westernmost of the
group, some 20 miles away. Tristan
itself is getting eaten out by rats—a
danger that once threatened St. Helena
—and it is becoming harder and harder
to grow grain or potatoes there. In-
accessible Island is less than half the
size, and nobody has ever lived there
except two Germans, but if the Tristan-
ites can leave the rats behind them they
will reckon it a good exchange.
% ❖ Jji
“S.T.S ”: Polo ponies are supposed to
take a real interest in the game ; but they
can overdo it. In the recent gymkhana at
Adelaide, one of them disregarded the
opposing pony, but bit its rider on the
chest.


■ '
PACIFIC
CANADA
and.
ATLANTIC
ype
L CANADIAN AUSTRALASIAN LINERS
" NIAGARA iuuC AORANCI "
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. LTD.
INC.
247 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY, OR ANY TOURIST AGENT.
Concentrated Cover
The mass of the circulation among the mass of
the population is the cover offered by
The Courier-Mail
The rich Queensland areas of the North Coast, the
South Coast and the Darling Downs, and the Northern
Rivers district of New South Wales all come within a radius
of 100 miles of Brisbane. Within this circle resides a popu-
lation of approximately 700,000, concentrated in some of
the richest farming and pastoral areas in Australia.
This is the mass market covered by The Courier-Mail,
rich in possibilities for the National Advertiser; and here
are the circulation figures for the various areas:-
Within a radius of 25 miles of Brisbane:
43,353
Within a radius of 50 miles of Brisbane:
48,905
Within a radius of 100 miles of Brisbane:
60,781
( Average net daily circulation for six months'
period ended September, 1936, 69,837.)
THE COURIER-MAIL, Queensland’s National
Daily, offers the most complete and effective cover
of this rich market.
Queensland Newspapers Pty., Ltd.,
BRISBANE.
Sydney Representative: R. JACKSON, Warwick Building, Hamilton Street.
Melbourne Representative: R. D. FISHER. Newspaper House, Collins Street.
London Representative: A. J. CHARD, 92 Fleet Street.
Jim Hall and Dan Creedon
No 14 of a series of articles on the great Australian boxers .
Old-timers smile ruefully when they
read that some American who is eleventh
or twelfth on a U.S.A. ranking list has
been brought to Australia because there
are no Australian opponents for the Aus-
tralian champion at his weight. In the
nineties of last century no such adven-
turer would have had the slightest chance
of getting a steerage ticket gratis, let
alone a guarantee.
Forty-odd years ago—and that was a
great period of pugilistic history—the
three best middleweights in the world
were from these parts. And an Aus-
tralian welterweight, Jim Barron, fought
a 10-round draw with the best American
middleweight, Kid McCoy.
Fitzsimmons was, of course, one of
the three middleweights referred to. The
others were Jim Hall and Dan Creedon.
Like Fitzsimmons, Creedon came to
Australia from Maoriland, having been
born at Invercargill. He learned to box
in Melbourne, and fought in the true
Jem Mace style. So did Jim Hall, who
was one of Larry Foley’s pupils.
A Sydneysider.
Since Larry Foley retired Sydney has
ceased to produce champions. Jim Hall
was a native of Sydney, and when he
graduated from Foley's school there
were literally scores of good Sydney-
trained boxers —some of them were
presently to be accepted as the finest in
the world. And Foley always bracketed
Hall with Jackson and Griffo as the
cleverest of them all.
Hall was not 20 when he became a
professional boxer. He was a handsome
fellow with convivial tastes, which as-
serted themselves long before he left
Australia. One of his early contests was
with “Starlight,” the black ship’s cook
who is still to be seen about Melbourne.
“Starlight” the youngster knocked out in
seven rounds at Melbourne in 1888. He
also met Dan Creedon that year in what
had become Creedon’s home city. It was
an eight-rounder, and they boxed a draw.
In 1889, Foley, who still had a virtual
monopoly as a boxing promoter in Syd-
ney, matched Hall with Bill Slavin,
brother of F. P. Slavin —“the great
whale,” as a Bulletin reporter, who
seems to have been in a cynical mood,
piit it.
“Slavin seemed endowed with all his
brother’s lack of intelligence, without
having a compensating equipment of
brute strength, and Hall simply pasted
him as he liked till Slavin’s second threw
up the towel. Foley interfered, and
said the public had paid to see a fight,
and they must light on and finish it or
he would give their share of the gate to
the hospital. Foiey might just as well
have let them stop. After a few more
rounds Hall landed a terrific left and
right, one on the eye and the other on
the chin, bringing Slavin down as neatly
as a pithed bullock. His head struck the
boards a frightful smack, blood trickled
from his eye and he had to be lifted to
his chair. Then a bystander said in a
hoarse whisper, ‘Wonder if it’s genfi-
wine?’ ”
That same year Hall had a go at Jim
Fogarty, “the jaw-breaker.” The same
critical Bulletin man pronounced it
“one of ‘those’: Fogarty was mud-fat,
and Hall had a clouded and heavy eye.”
It was called a draw.
In 1890 Hall whipped Peter Boland
(16 rounds), Dummy Mace (five rounds),
Herb Goddard, a brother of Joe
(four rounds) and “Starlight” again.
He also went through the motions of
knocking Fitzsimmons out in four
icunds; but a tough fellow from the
Barrier, Owen Sullivan, knocked him out
in 11 rounds. Possibly that was also
“one of ‘those.’ ” Though only a boy,
Hall was already pursued by women and
by men who not only admired his boxing
but found him very good company. He
had already given it out that he intended
to go to the U.S.A., and in Sydney he
took a benefit, for which the advertised
programme was altered. Joe Goddard
had undertaken to knock Hall out in
four rounds. This meeting of heavy-
weight and middleweight was altered to
a pleasant spar, because Hall had “ ’flu."
Hall’s last bout in Australia was an
eight-round exhibition with Billy Mc-
Carthy, who, though blind in one eye—
and the other was none too good—boxed
all the best middleweights of his time
and made every one of them respect his
fine fighting qualities. He was adjudged
to have outpointed Hall, but the deci-
sion was hooted, and Melbourne news-
papers that gave any space to boxing
unanimously condemned it.
The Pacific Track.
Early in 1891 Hall followed Jackson
and Fitzsimmons to San Francisco. There
he met one Alec Greggains, California’s
champion middleweight, and polished
him off in four rounds.
Straightway he became a much-sought-
after boxer. With the famous “Parson”
Davis as manager, he toured the U.S.A.
issuing challenges and giving exhibitions.
At Michigan the interesting pair quar-
relled, and newspapers reported that the
most unparsonicai parson had stabbed his
mealticket in the throat “in self-defence.”
Hall made a quick recovery, and at
Chicago a few weeks later he boxed four
rounds with Jim Corbett. “Hall,” that
worthy declared, “is the best boxer I
ever sparred with and is sure to beat
Fitzsimmons.”
“Beat, me?” Fitz retorted. “I’ll beat
him as sure as the sun shines. Why
shouldn’t I? I’ve licked him twice, and
I’m bigger, cleverer and more experi-
enced now. Here, I’ll bet Jim Hall six
thousand dollars to five thousand and
meet him anywhere he names, with ten
blokes on each side to see fair ; or I’ll
go into a room with him, without a soul
but ourselves, for two dollars a side.”
If Fitzsimmons really “licked him
twice” there are no newspaper records
of the double event. The tradition has
come down that he did whip Hall in
private, though in their only public en-
counter in Sydney, the fake fight of
February, 1890, Fitzsimmons did a floor-
hugging act in the fourth round.
"Mr. Aldington."
At this stage of his career, Hall was
still very young as pugs go, and he
should have seized every opportunity of
fighting to perfect his skill and toughen
his body. Instead he gave full play to
his natural inclination to enjoy the
pleasures of life, being assisted in these
pursuits by the notorious Abington
Baird, also known as “Squire” or “Mr. ’
Abington. Being in the U.S.A. with
Charlie Mitchell, “Mr. Abington” met
Hall and added him to his string.
“Mr. Abington” has been described as
“the champion gilded tough of the Brit-
ish Isles.” He was a good boxer, a
splendid horseman and a royal spender.
He had inherited an immense fortune,
made out of iron, and was doing his best
to go through it. Together with Mitchell
Hall danced attendance on him for many
months, taking part in all his frolics.
Indeed,'two wasted years elapsed before
Hall shaped up to Fitzsimmons at New
Orleans “for the middleweight cham-
pionship and a purse of £8000,” which
had dwindled to £3OOO when the com-
batants called on the promoters- —self-
titled the Crescent Club —for their cuts.
Fitz the Winner.
It was good even scrapping for three
rounds, and Hall was smiling confidently
when he came out of his corner for the
HALL.
f “Suddenly Fite’s right shot out.
The mass f bone and muscle caugh t
HaU Qn the jnt of the jaw . He felt
jjke a ]ogj bead str j king the cork
floor with a resounding thud.
“That knock-out blow was pronounced
by everybody to have been the cleverest
and hardest ever administered by one
pugilist to another. The fight lasted 13
minutes ; Hall was ‘out’ for two minutes,
and it was 20 minutes before he could
be removed to his room. He was alter-
wards so downhearted that he cried and
moaned continually.” Some of the
greatest pugs have been like that in the
hour of defeat, and others have been
known to behave as did the winner,
“Outside the building Fitzsimmons s
wife and child were awaiting him in a
carriage. As the champion reached it
he grasped them in his arms and kissed
them repeatedly. Mrs. Fitzsimmons
cried for joy; the child clapped its
tiny hands and said, ‘My papa won.
Abinglon Baird had been one ot Ha >
seconds as well as his backer. It was
a fatal day lor him; he caught a c i
and within a fortnight was dead ot in-
flammation of the lungs. He left a mi
lion. Hall got none of it, nor did Mit-
chell, who, asked by an American re
porter for a suitable epitaph on c e
ceased, said: ‘Mr. Abington was
backer. He was an English gentleman
with no end of money.
c|
Hail Whips 2>iavm.
There being nothing at the moment for
a beaten man in America, Hall went to
England, where he challenged Frank
siavin. Though Jackson had lowered
hi s colors, Siavin still had a great repu-
tation in Britain, and he took the stand
that it would be a comedown for him,
the famous heavyweight to box a
middleweight had last
o *‘gettfng the match and rehabili-
nteni on gening • hh d Siavin in
tat,r J§ h, !^ e hackers and I'll °ive
public. You get >»*«« “**
you a chance in 8’ ~j don y
when they wei P
fight or . a r ,u ? emer ' ’ trb was arran oed.
Hall got backers, a match ““rrangw
and the lightei man , , ci av j n
He J\ ad on ?, r oet ’ away from
could neither block 1 ® a f ter 10
it. When carried to pros _
seconds had been co ™
trate body the man fr 1 eye his
an immense lump ov c r , ‘ bat .
nose was broken and h


KEPT FROM HIS SHIP
BY SCIATICA
Sailor Who Could Hardly
Walk for Pain.
Rheumatism had so crippled this old sailor
that he could only make his way about with
pain and difficulty. Here he tells how a friend
introduced him to a remedy which made him
perfectly fit for the hard seafaring life again
within a week:
“I have been a seaman and travelled all
over the world in sailing ships. Some time
ago I was taken bad with sciatica and rheuma-
tism. If I went out I had to rest two or three
times before I got home. One day an old
mate of mine asked me what was the matter,
and he said ‘get some Kruschen Salts.’ So I
got some and I am pleased to say I felt a great
ease. After continuing for a week, I was
a great deal better, and on the Saturday 1
was back on my ship.”—T. R. W.
The pains of rheumatism and sciatica are
caused by too much uric acid accumulating
in the body. Two of the ingredients of
Kruschen Salts dull the sharp edges of uric-
acid crystals, then dissolve them away alto-
gether. Other ingredients of these Salts assist
Nature to wash out these dissolved crystals
through the natural channels.
A FAVOURITE
THE
No. 150
HEEP-
SEATEI)
KEMP-
STYEE
SADDLE,
£B7-
(MOUNTED)
Has combined
flap and skirt
sewn direct
to the seat,
thus giving the narrow-
est possible grip. Kemp
pads.
N.S.W. freight paid for
cash with order.
Write for 100-page Saddlery Catalog.
WALTHER i> STEVENSON ltd.
395 CEORCE 3T. SYDNEY
' >
n
, \
X
ss
x'rv v
.'W
'i
<$
SI
va
m
ftank of Nete South Up let
Head Office; George Street , Sydney
This Bank protects
its Customers and the Community
The prudence this Bank exercises in granting,
overdrafts, backed by substantial reserves, safe-,
guards its depositors’ funds.
Its careful examination of overdraft applications
protects borrowers, restraining some from
embarking upon unwise ventures and encourag-
ing others to promote and extend sound enter-
prises..
It gives the fullest possible assistance to capable
men and well managed concerns, thus creating
employment, increasing production and promote
ing prosperity in the community.
This Bank considers that its responsibility to the
community demands the strictest observance of
these principles.
'■m/
ESTABLISHED 1817
Nearly 800 branches throughout Australia, New
Zealand, the Pacific Islands and London
257F.1937
tered out of all recognition. Hall had
never fought so fiercely.
Hall beat another opponent in London
—the English middleweight champion,
Ted Pritchard. By all accounts Pritchard
was a very good man, but he was settled
in three rounds.
Back in the U.S.A.
Hall crossed the Atlantic again and
straightway returned to his hedonistic
habits. Properly handled and matched
he could have made plenty of money,
but training had always been irksome to
him and he found easier ways of getting
a living. In Australia, Larry Foley,
whose judgment was rarely at fault, was
insisting that Hall had it in him to beat
Fitzsimmons if they met again. Fitz-
simmons himself, after he had won the
heavyweight championship, mentioned
Hall as one with a good chance of gaining
the crown for himself when he (Fitz) re-
tired ; but by the time this was said Hall
had virtually drifted out of the game.
Except for a four-round no-decision
bout with Kid McCoy, Hall’s last public
appearance was with Joe Choynski in
New York on January 20, 1896. For 12
rounds he got all over Choynski, but in
the thirteenth his condition failed him
and Choynski knocked him out. Years
of dissipation had sapped his splendid
constitution. Though not yet 28, an age
at which Fitzsimmons was just begin-
ning his career, Jim Hall was finished.
Creedon and Fitz.
A paragraph from The Bulletin of
March 8, 1892: “Before he is a year
older Dan Creedon, who fought 25 des-
perate rounds with Buffalo Costello at
Melbourne the other night, may prove
himself to be the best middleweight in
the world.” The prediction was not ful-
filled, but if Bob Fitzsimmons hadn’t
stood in the way it might have been.
CREEDON .
It was Creedon’s second meeting with
Costello, and it ended in a draw. The
contest had not started till 10 o’clock,
and, afraid of legal complications if he
let it extend into the Sunday, the referee
applied the closure. Creedon had already
beaten Costello. He had done consider-
able fighting about Melbourne ; among
the men he defeated were Tut Ryan, Jim
Ryan, “Starlight,” Charlie Dunn and
Mick Dunn.
Creedon went to America in 1893 with
an unbeaten record. At San Francisco
he put Greggains through in 17 rounds,
and in the course of 12 months he
whipped other middleweights with
American reputations, among them Dick
Moore (10 rounds) and Childs, the negro
(three rounds). Then he was matched
with Fitzsimmons “for the middleweight
championship and £1000,” and was
knocked out in two rounds.
It was a dreadful shock to Dan,
especially as it was his first defeat. “I
have had 111 fights and won 109 and
drew the other two,” he said to the sport-
ing pressmen before the fight. He could
scarcely believe that he had been beaten
in fair encounter, and in his bitterness
of spirit he said Fitz was a foul fighter-
hit with the wrist instead of the glove.
Actually, a straight left fair on the mouth
administered the coup de grace, although
this delivery was preceded by tremendous
punches on more vital parts.
Dan Goes to England.
As Creedon had followed Hall across
the Pacific, so, when beaten by Fitz-
simmons, he followed Hall across the
Atlantic in searcn of easier meat. Old
Jem Mace took him up, and, with sundry
hints from the veteran, who was de-
lighted to find in the Australian so pol-
ished a representative of the Jem Mace
school, Creedon accounted for Jem
Smith, now again recognised in some
quarters as champion of England.
It was all over in the second round,
when “Creedon got home one of the
most tremendous blows ever delivered in
a ring. It landed fair on the liver, and
Smith went down as if felled by a sledge-
hammer. Creedon won at all points.
He was as clever as a monkey with his
head, and the way he avoided Smith’s
straight blows was wonderful.”
The Money Was Good.
Creedon’s defeat of Smith and of the
negro Craig, known as “the Harlem
Coffee Cooler,” got him a job at £l5O a
week in an English circus, and for
showing in music halls he received £B5
and £75 a week.' But there were now
no opponents in England for him to
meet, and he went back to the U.S.A.
There he was a popular figure in the
ring for seven years. He met and was
beaten by Kid McCoy, who had grown
out of the middleweight class. Other
heavyweights he tackled were Choynski,
Root and Marvin Hart, who was to gain
a decision over Jack Johnson and to see
Tommy Burns crowned heavyweight
champion by Jeffries after Hart had been
outpointed by Tommy. Creedon was
past 30 when he met these heavyweights,
and he found them too young and tough,
but with genuine middleweights, such
as Tommy West, A 1 Weinig and Billy
Stiff, he managed to hold his own.
And he made plenty of money ; but
it all slipped through his fingers. The
biggest purse he ever fought for was
12,000 dollars, put up for one of his
fights with McCoy (there were two); anti
they divided it. Two fights in Chicago
the same week with Joe Walcott —in
each case Walcott got the decision —
brought him 4000 dollars. Of all the
Australian pugs that fought in America,
Creedon was the best-liked—sporting
papers called him “a prince of good fel-
lows”—but it would have been much
better for him had he been less popular
and more prudent.
In Australia Again.
Hall never returned to Australia. He
died in Wisconsin the year before the
outbreak of war. Creedon came back
in 1902, and though 34, and all-in as a
fighter, he showed himself immensely
superior in everything but stamina to
the crop of pugs that had sprung up
during his long absence.
Had he returned a bit earlier he might
have wound up his career as heavyweight
champion. As it was, at Melbourne on
November 11, 1902, he inflicted a five-
round knockout on Bill Doherty, who
had only the previous month lost the
championship in Sydney to Billy McColl
(or McCall).
Creedon fought McColl for the cham-
pionship at Sydney on March 3, 1903.
When he strode into the ring “he looked
like a Greek statue suddenly endowed
with life. His closely-cropped hair was
silvery grey, and his limbs were white,
symmetrical and smooth as marble. The
statuesque impression was dissipated only
when a back view showed it to be
slightly bald on top. McColl was as
brown as a berry and nothing like as
handsome.
“That the silver-haired, symmetrical
old man could have any chance against
the brute strength of ungainly youth
seemed impossible. But the first round
showed that the shapely old thorough-
bred had infinitely more skill and little
less force. Creedon used his hands and
body in an artistic fashion that was good
to see. His blows were clean, quick and
given apparently without effort.
“McColl fought a waiting fight. He
hung on to the other’s legs and hips, and
pushed and backed round the ring as
though he were playing football. In
the second round he was stupid from
a weighty blow, and another made him
worse ; but, chock-full of grit, he con-
trived to floor Creedon for four seconds.
In the third round the champion seemed
in a bad way, but a mis-sizing of the
situation on the referee’s part caused a
cessation, and the respite was McColl’s
salvation.
“A collision in the fifth round opened
an old wound over Creedon’s right eye,
which bled freely, as McColl’s nose had
been doing for some time. In the sixth
round Creedon went limp, and when the
champion rushed in, punching, the vet-
eran could offer no resistance. The
towel came in from his corner, and the
man who had got the worst of the fight
got most of the money.”
Creedon had two or three more
matches, but he was now past training
seriously. Promoters dropped him, and
he drifted out of sporting writers’ ken.
When last heard of —and it was a long
time ago—he was living in a remote
part of South Australia.


“THE AGE"
Established 1854.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
“The Age” is a household publication whose
subscribers welcome its receipt, depending upon
its news columns for the accurate information
which day by day covers the broadest possible
survey of the world’s happenings, and upon
its advertising columns to bring to their
attention that which is required in their
home or business life.
BECOME A SUBSCRIBER.
You will find “The Age” a congenial news-
paper, with an atmosphere of individual and
personal appeal.
Price lid. per copy at all newsagents and
bookstall's, or 12/- per quarter post free
within the Commonwealth.
“THE AGE” FOR ADVERTISING.
Publishes about 1,000,000
Advertisements Annually.
Advertising rates on application to the principal
Advertising Service Agents in all States or—
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 117 Pitt Street.
London Office: 3 Temple Avenue.
The Paper that carries
100% of local retail
advertising must be
powerful.
In Wellington, New
Zealand, 100% of local
retail advertisers use the
columns of “The Evening
Post” for their publicity.
The majority of them
use “The Evening Post”
exclusively. They do so
because they know from
experience that “The
Evening Post brings
immediate response.
“The Evening Post”
(Blundell Bros., Ltd., Props.)
Wellington’s Only Evening Paper
For particulars and rates apply to
any accredited advertising agency.
Che mercury
Tasmania’s First Daily Newspaper
(Established 1851).
“The Mercury” carries regularly a far
greater total volume of advertising than
any other newspaper published in Tas-
mania. It. is thus, judged by the use made
of its columns, the most popular as well
as the most powerful of the newspapers of
Tasmania. Profit by the experience of the
leading national advertisers, and place “The
Mercury’.’ .. first - when advertising in Tas-
mania is under consideration.
“The Mercury” is the only Tasmanian
newspaper which gives A.B.C. certificates
of circulation. These certificates show
that during the 18 months ended Sept. 30,
1936, “The Mercury’s” circulation in-
creased by 1882, and that it had reached
20,471 daily.
Full particulars from
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable Address: MERCURY, HOBART.
Sydney Office: Lisgar House, Carrington St.
F. L. WILSON A CO., Representatives.
Melbourne Office: Newspaper House, Collins St.
F. RIEUSSET, Representative.
DO NOT
let your customers
change to something
different. Keep in
touch with them over
the week-end and let
them read of your
excellent products in
“The Mail"
ADELAIDE, S.A.
On SUNDAY
That is the day your cus-
tomers have most time to
ponder over the good things
of life.
RAXES from:
P. A. MESSENGER, Warwick Build-
ings, Hamilton street, Sydney.
A. G. PIKE, Newspaper Honse,
Collins street. Melbourne.
Things Are Looking Up
During 1936 Broken Hill’s population increased
by 1640 to well over 28,000. The number of
men employed along the line of lode rose 742
to 4296 and the wages paid by the mines alone
soared from approximately £27,000 to £30,000
weekly.
And prospects for 1937 are even brighter.
" The Barrier Miner "
carry your message to this rich market —you
just can’t afford to ignore it 1
Further details can be had from
Pi A. MESSENGER,
Warwick Bldg.,
Sydney.
A. G. PIKE,
Newspaper House
Melbourne.
NEWS, LTD., North Terrace, Adelaide.
Established
1924.
The only even-
ing Newspaper
in the North of
Tasmania.
• • . C
TUt SATUR-D^^gtVtNlNG
-v —«■ •
Is published and circulates in Launceston, and
reaches the principal towns on the North-
East, North-West and the Midlands. No
papers are published on Sundays in Tas-
mania; therefore, advertise in “The
Evening Express” for the Sunday
11 information, copies and advertising rates obtainable from
R. ROLPH' & SONS PTY., LTD., 71-75 Paterson St., Launceston.
S. ALLAN, N.S.W. Bank Chambers, 368 Collins St., Melbourne, C.l.
N. SCOTT, 9 Bligh St., Sydney.
cAomi*/*
■AUDIT
■BUREAU OB'
.CIRCULATIONS.
DOMINANT COVERAGE
of the Entire West!
6AM’s new power of 1000
watts carries it into the
farthest outback farm and
into the busy city.
Do you realise that OUR
listeners are YOUR cus-
tomers?
6AM
Prince’s Chambers,
William Street,
Perth,
Western Australia.
What about the poor devils who've never had any-
thing to sell but their labor?”
“Well, what about them?”
“They don’t have any tears shed over them
when they miss their step and come a cropper. ‘Down
in the dirt, is it?’ you hear everybody say; ‘Well,
stay there —it’s where you belong.’ ”
The tobacconist turned his shoulders, drained his
beer deliberately. “You’re shooting in the air, Johnny.
This isn’t politics: it’s a matter of human interest.
Old Peter’s a man we know.”
“Everybody’s a man somebody knows, ain’t he?
And what the hell d'you call politics? It's not a
question of work and wages, I suppose: it’s a name
for some circus that goes on over the edge of the
skyline.”
“We’re talking about Peter,” the tobacconist said
doggedly; “the way he treated his men well and
suffered for it.”
“Well, if he’s taken the knock it’s only because
he’s part of a system that lives on little men going
under. No need to take it as a personal matter and
make a song about it. An old tradesman like you
ought to know the rules of the game. It’s robbery
if you bone a bit of pine from a man’s timberyards:
it’s a smart stroke of business if you swallow the
whole shebang and turn him out into the street.
That’s capitalism. No feelings: only a sharp set
of teeth and a hungry gut. A man who believes in
it hasn’t got any kick coming when he’s the one to
get hurt.”
Smiling uncertainly, the tobacconist tried to turn
the onslaught aside. “You reds from down south!
Can’t even look at a dogfight without thinking about
the class war.”
“It’s going on here as well as there, gran’pa.
There ain’t any sheltered areas.”
“Mostly it’s only the rattle of two ideas in you
fellows’ heads.”
“You think so? Never had to hunt this country
for a job, did you?”
“Not lately. Not for something like forty years.”
“It would make your eyes sharper if you had.
My God, it would! You oysters that stick to your
own bit of rock! Can’t see the meaning of what’s
going on under your noses.”
ARGUMENT, clang of high-pitched voices, blobs
of faces showing in the blue smoke-haze like the
bellies of-fish. Fighting with his fantasies in a dark
corner, Neil Sanderson tried to follow what was being
said, but the words slipped away from him, danced
along the quivering surface, garfish before a slow-
moving shark. He was on a boat drifting down a
yellow, sluggish river, horns blowing from the jungle,
naked figures shouting from the undergrowth on the
banks. He was lying in his bunk at the cane-
barracks, watching Besanck’s back as he cleared
away the dishes, listening to Conolly reading some-
thing from a torn bit of newspaper. Rousing himself
with an effort, he said to the man nearest him:
“What’s this barney about old Jensen? Gone broke,
has he?”
“Looks like it. He’s trying to mortgage his
boat.”
“And what about the men working for him?”
“Don’t know. Most likely they’re hunting other
jobs.”
From the group of unemployed cane-cutters at
the bar a little man detached himself and came
sauntering over with a mug of beer in his hand.
Prominent eyes, a hooked beak, a blotched face
threaded with blood-veins. He stood swaying uncer-
tainly, a smile wriggling like a worm beneath his
wispy moustache. “Stone the crows it’s Sandy!
The boy who took the right turning! They tell me
you’re dug in and doing well, Sandy. Running a
boat and gathering a crowd of bulls around you.
Don’t remember me, eh?”
Fighting for a grip on himself, Neil said
mechanically “Don’t I? It must have been the sight
of your beak made me think of the barracks and
that damned old river.”
The Parrot turned with a grin to the man beside
him. “Hear that? He don’t want to remember me
but he just can’t help it. No one ever forgets this old
dial of mine. They could swear to it even if they
only seen it by the light of a pocket-torch. That’s
the curse that follows me round... And so you’ve
got your hooks into something good, Sandy? I knew
from your slickness in getting out of y’r bunk of a
morning you wouldn't be bending y’r back too long.
Up before the; magpie. Down there at the loading-
trucks before the rest of us were into our pants.
And last to knock off at smoke-oh or dinner-time.
Ain’t that the way all the big josses made their
money? Sweated it out of their own bone and
muscle. No blasted luck about it —no jiggery-pokery
or gambling for the rise. Just hard, bullocking
work.”
The good-humored barrack played around Neil,
passed over his head like smoke. He fenced feebly
with the Parrot, ridiculed the idea that the ownership
of a boat proved he was doing well, dug into his
pockets for the last of his change and called for
another round of drinks: but the antic images that
crowded his brain danced distractingly between his
words and his thoughts. Drunk, was he? Or had
Charlie been right when he said he was running a
temperature and warned him against leaving his
bunk? . .. “You’ve got to lie up a while, Neil: you’ve
been knocking yourself out too much. Not a proper
hour’s sleep since the day you came back”... But
there was this unease in his blood that kept him
moving, made the feel of a still deck intolerable, sent
him to the Crown and Anchor as soon as the boat
was moored.
He tried to concentrate on old Peter. “You’ve
got to do something, Neil Sanderson. You can’t
see him made bankrupt. He gave you your start: it’s
up to you to help him now with a loan. Help
him now. Lamont would find the money quick
enough.”
Yet when he thought of the house on the
esplanade the blood burned his eyes, his mind swerved
away defensively. Suppose he walked in through the
trellis door and Freda came flitting downstairs to
meet him, her manner friendly and casual, the terriers
swarming round her feet... “Hallo, Sandy! Back
again? Have a good holiday?”... He jumped up
quic’kly, spilling his beer. There was this fierce heat
consuming him, making his skin feel like liquid fire.
When Charlie had awakened him that morning he
had shot out his hand violently and clutched him
by the throat.
I | E was hardly aware he had left the bar till he
*■ * found himself hanging on to a lamp-post near
Cayley’s, watching the river of fluid light pour out
towards the darkness of the fig-trees, where a couple
of taxi-drivers drowsed in their cabs. Fantastic
figures on the hoarding behind him clamored for his
attention. A white unicorn stood rampant on a green
field, a red surcingle around its middle, its forelegs
raised high in air: a seal balancing a glass of beer
on its nose besought him to turn his eyes and
look.
Betrayed, he was thinking, by the man, was it,
or the woman? Hadn’t there been dissimulation in
his eyes that evening as he Jay looking at his bare
feet sticking out from beneath the blanket, pretending
that the money didn’t matter, that he was content
to live there. alone, cooking his stew over the open
fire, wandering into town now and then to change
his book or sunbathe on the wooden ledge of the
baths? His face guarded, defensive, his eyes glinting
like broken glass. Remembering all that had passed
between them, nursing his secret malice, knowing the
time of settlement was near. “Ah! You are off to
Sydney.”
Or her look mutinous, inward-turned, as she sat
on the bank of the estuary, hands round her updrawn
knees, body gathered in upon itself like that of an
animal aware of danger in the air, more acutely
aware of its own being. Saying “It’s not him I’m
thinking about,” planning to be off with him. Her
words cutting 'sharply across the surface, responding
to changes in the wind, her thoughts moving weighted
over the sea-floor.
There were weedy depths a man must search to
find the truth, abandoning the bright sun-glitter,
familiar shapes, seeming clearness of upper air.
Voices sounded faintly in that greenish underworld,
eyes watched covertly from the coral caverns. But
the humiliating thing was the mocking laughter that
came from all around. A man entered those depths
naked, unprotected, conscious of his blundering move-
ments, his innocence exposed, his fumbling thoughts
revealed. And then, laughter! The real meaning of
betrayal lay in that. You’re only a youngster: you’ll
grow up one day...
(To be continued next week.)


lliis masterpiece is
the spirit he always serves
\ \
?<¥**
r»Jfc
£r*Jr
X
f.
m
i>
-SS
m
n
ii
r
r *£MU
i iw«*mnimwttiuii w*H****m~ »tU4W
(I) c GxUum's
{/ww
GFCaUums
Scots (lihisky
«*. bur**—-
( rov«*»» 'NtJ •
DISTRIBUTORS FOR THE HOUSE OF McCALLUM:
GOLDSBROUGH, MORT & CO., LTD., Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane. GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Adelaide.
LIONEL SAMPSON & SON, Fremantle. MACFARLANE BROS. & CO., Hobart.
POST THIS SUP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK’S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
n
m
TO “THE* BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- {plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30 /-.)
qY-
°°*
A® <e« o.
Jsi ,
vv??\>e
#vv
'° v «»\,»"
X
eV
tvt
kP
<*
<S&
X
0$
V
<vl
0
0
b)
e
a
e
'■y
fcVf'
\\
o''
v -
-00
••••
.* . <r S e el
-*■ •^


■ * ~ , " /
mm
fiwmi
'kiJabbt' “
illliil
(X
S."'?
at
A
MODELS
435
465
475
de A V
life
Hite-*
ft
m,
mm
mu
in
m
.%>
Si ■■■
: m
«riS
x % •.
H^j,
103 L t«L 2 °-lNn C Oyu,
»+ osZ*tS o * C **
SUpj
,c »r , £
4 ' *2 v >/t^„ 0 4:r
W*»_ /h. 0ft 3v t
yew a /r
/ Ae>, /A*
u
?°r
c o7 r W Z^ T ° 6 <'
SUpJj°l. *A„C o r£ TltXr.
.3
- !
O
3W:-
v e
>4
111
Exclusive—Yet Priced for the People
TASMA has still further increased its lead in Australian radio by
producing a series of receivers for city and country which are so far
ahead in distinction—exclusive features-—and performance—that com-
petition is left in the background.
See a Tasma—listen to a Tasma, and your own sound judgment will
prompt you to buy a Tasma!
* TASMA MODEL “480”:
Housed in the superb “Home-
stead” Cabinet, this new 5-
valve DUAL WAVE Battery
Receiver offers extraordinary
value to the country listener
who requires perfect recep-
tion on both broadcast and
short wave. This set features
the swiftest and most accurate
tuning control ever evolved!
Instantaneous change from
one programme to another;
yet so perfectly controlled
that the most remote stations
can be tuned with micrometer
accuracy.
Price 34 Guineas.
* TASMA MODEL “475”:
This is a superb 5-valve Dual-
wave batteryless vibrator type
receiver possessing all the new
and exclusive features starred
in this announcement', and
housed in the popular “Home-
stead” cabinet. No B batteries
needed. Price 38 Guineas.
Also Model 465, 5-valve
Receiver. To operate from
32 volts.
* TASMA MODEL “430”:
The new detail-built 5-valve
A.C. Broadcast de luxe re-
ceiver in the famous “Har-
vester” cabinet, which includes
the eight-inch speaker.
The price, including all ex-
clusive Tasma features, is
23 Guineas.
4**l* TASMA MODEL “435”:
A.C. Electric.
Tasma is justly proud of this
new detail-built 5-valve Dual-
wave receiver in its artisti-
cally-designed “Homestead”
cabinet. The Tasma Model
"435” is an exceptionally fine
investment at 28 Guineas.
4*4* TASMA MODEL “470”:
A detail-built 4-valve Broad-
cast Battery-operated console
receiver, which so admirably
suits the requirements of
country listeners. The beauti-
ful “Harvester" cabinet is
complete with 8-inch speaker
and all batteries.
The price of the Tasma “470”
(including all batteries) is
26 Guineas.
*H”h TASMA MODEL “460”:
For value, the most remark-
able Detail-built 5-valve A.C.
Mantel Radio of the year,
presented in a gracefully
veneered cabinet with beauti-
fully-polished walnut' front.
The cabinet stands only 13
inches high, yet only full-size
components are used in the
construction of this receiver.
The round dial is of the very
latest edgelit type with a
shadow indicator. It will play
every Australian station per-
fectly.
Price £l5/157-
In Console Model, £l9/19/-,
(Milton Cabinet.)
ŀ
VICTORIA: HARTLEYS PTY., LTD., 270
PLUNDERS STREET, MELBOURNE.
John Holhvay and Sons, 40 Armstrong Street
North, Ballarat. (Ballarat Distributors .)
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Oliver J. Nil,sen & Co., Ltd.,
49 King William Street, Adelaide.
TASMANIA; Noyes Bros. (Metb.) I'ty., Ltd., 36
Argyle Street, Hobart; and 59 George Street,
Launceston.
NEW ZEALAND: New Zealand Electric Equipment
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Carlyle & Co., 915-917 Hay
Street, Perth.
QUEENSLAND: G. J. Griee, Ltd., 90 Queen Street
Brisbane, and Branches at Rockhampton
Townsville, Cairns and Maekay.
DARLING DOWNS: Rosenstengels Fty., Ltd,,
Rutbven Street, Toowoomba.
Ltd., Wakefield Chambers, Wellington, N. 56.
A Product of THOM AND SMITH. LIMITED. 29-39 Botany Road. Mascot.
■
