

*
r
i
w
t.-a
m
■
■
spends a very long
time in the cask
n.iirniihm
Mini
-
m
only
a short time in the bottle
and next to
no time at all in your glass
FD
A lw
aps
ask
for
John
Walk
me
bp
er
a ame
JOHNNIE
WAMtER
Born 182 0 —Still Going Strong
JOHN WALKER AND SONS LIMITED, LONDON, KILMARNOCK, SYDNEY.
The Bulletin
VoL 58.—N0. 3001.
Wednesday, August 18, 1937.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


DYMOCK’S NEW LIBRARY
CATALOGUE FOR 1937
is now ready and will be forwarded post free
with terms and particulars on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
“The Block,”
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
HIM!
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
_ CUT HEBE AND MAID
Please send, without obligation, your New Fr n e
16pp. Illustrated Penmanship Prospectus explaining
your Muscular Movement System of Writing, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name •
My Address
S.B. 437
S. H. Prior Memorial Prize
Fourth Competition Closes June 6, 1938.
Full particulars of this annual literary award will be published
here from time to time, or may be had on application to The
Bulletin. 252 George-street, Sydney.
For this current competition only novels are eligible, and the
Prize will be awarded to that which is considered the most
outstanding contribution to Australian literature.
The trustees will publish the successful work in book form,
and in serial form any they may deem worthy. If published as a
serial the winner will be paid for at serial rates in addition to the
prize-money. Any others Used as serials will also be paid tor at
serial rates. ~ , .
Any bona fide Australian resident or any person born in
Australia, New Zealand or British South Pacific islands will be
eligible to enter for the competition works which must be the
orieinal work of the entrants, and previously unpublished, either
wholly or in part, in book or serial form. Manuscripts must be
submitted under a nom de plume, and the true name and address
of the author must accompany each entry in a sealed envelope,
which will not be opened until the judges have made their decision.
The trustees reserve the right to withhold the Prize if no work
submitted is, in the opinion of the judges, worthy of an award
If this should occur in any year, the amount of the Prize will he
added to the following year’s Prize.
The Red Page
HOW TO BE A GOOD FELLOW AND
MAKE DOUGH.
Mr. Dale Carnegie, author of the latest American
uplift tome to reach this address, doesn’t put it as
crudely as that. He calls his book How to Win
Friends and Influence People (Angus and Robertson ;
7s. 6d.). It is claimed that the work is the “No. 1
best-seller of 1937, leading all fiction and non-fiction
titles,” thereby helping to demonstrate that the Car-
negie method, when applied by Mr. Carnegie even
in a literary way, brings home the bacon.
The book deserves to sell well. It is brightly
written, garnished with pithy anecdotes about violently
rich people in whom we’re all secretly interested,
and it promises each and every reader a sort of
personal millennium. As much as 15s. has been
charged for uplift treatises not half as practical or
as sensible as this one, nor as palpably sincere. You’ve
only to look at the photograph of the author on the
cover to realise that he’s a charming chap, and that
you’d enjoy meeting him. He runs an Institute of
Effective Speaking and Human Relations in Forty-
second Street, N.Y., and hundreds of successful go-
getters could doubtless be prevailed upon to rise up
and call his name blessed.
Very nice; but what’s the Carnegie Royal Road
to Power and Opulence? Twelve rules: (1) Avoid
argument. (2) Never tell a man he’s wrong. (3) If
you are wrong admit it quickly and emphatically.
(4) Approach people in a friendly way. (5) Get the
other fellow saying “Yes, yes” immediately. (6) Let
the other man do a great deal of the talking. (7) Let
the other man feel that the idea is his. (8) Try to
see the other person’s point of view. (9) Be sym-
pathetic with his ideas and desires. (10) Appeal to
the nobler motives. (11) Dramatise your ideas. (12)
Throw down a challenge.
Every modern salesman is supposed to know that
line of psychology—summed up, it is Golden Rulism.
But it is successful only when it is applied by the right
sort of chap. A suspicion of insincerity, and the
method is worse than useless. Mr. Carnegie is
emphatic about that. He says he preaches a new sort
of life, not a recipe for success. The successful
disciple must be a convert and love his fellow-man
just as much as Mr. Carnegie does.
One very illuminating episode is recounted by
Mr. Carnegie. He had a spot of business to do in a
shipping office and was served by a clerk who was
obviously overworked and worried, and he said to
himself “How can I bring a ray of brightness into this
poor fish’s life?” So he praised the fellow’s beautiful
hair, and won a warm smile. Quite so. Carnegie
could do that out of the riches of his kind heart; but
this commentator is sure he couldn’t —and get away
with it.
To appear to leave the subject, 99 p.c. of the
students at all the physical-culture institutes, gym-
nasiums and boxing schools this commentator has had
occasion to look over have been people of above
ordinary physique. They were that way when they
started, though the director would pretend otherwise.
They had a talent —of brawn —and wanted to improve
it.
It’s the same with professional uplifters and joy-
bringers like Mr. Carnegie. Early in life he must
have found out that he was a pleasant-mannered chap
and that his honey gave him a much pleasanter
passage through life than some other fellow’s vinegar
or bull-headed determination. So he cultivated his
talent and then began to theorise about it. “Why
shouldn’t everybody be a Sandow?” innocently
inquires the great Eugene in his celebrated manual.
Why shouldn’t everybody be a Prince Charming?
asks Mr. Carnegie, with just as much innocence, and
proceeds to prove to his own satisfaction that it was
just by being kind and smiling and considerate and
good-hearted that Andrew Carnegie, Charles Schwab,
Henry Ford, J. D. Rockefeller and other well-known
sunbeams acquired their billions of oof.
No, Mr. Carnegie. Most of the captains of
industry are hard men. Most of them this commen-
tator has met have had very little regard for other
people’s feelings or views, and so little pliability and
philosophy that if a fact didn’t suit ’em they’d declare
to high heaven it didn’t exist. Possibly they might be
“worked” on the Carnegie system—by a Carnegie—
but the contest would be titanic, and this commen-
tator’s money would be on the hard man. ,
On Horse and Horsemanship.
The Italian system of horsemanship first attracted
attention by the success of the Italian Horse Show
team at Olympia in 1908. Its originator, Frederico
Caprilli, took over control of the Tor di Quinto
cavalry school at the beginning of the century and
threw aside traditional methods in favor of the
“forward impulse.” This forward seat —the grip on
the saddle is taken slightly above the knee, the rider
perched or seated on the thighs, well forward on and
about an inch “out” of the saddle ; there is no fitting
back into the cantle —came to be used in Italy in all
branches of riding. The year before Caprilli’s death
in 1907 the Italian cavalry finally discarded the old
methods and negotiated the almost perpendicular
Tor di Quinto slide, using the forward seat; the feat
had previously been managed with the rider bent
back along the horse’s loins.
Cavalry instructors in other countries soon
adopted the Italian methods. Colonel Paul Rodzanko,
who organised the Russian team of 1914, studied
under Caprilli and taught his theories in Russia and
more recently at the Irish Free State Cavalry School.
Spain revised its system of instruction on the Italian
basis some years ago, and the recent improvement in
German Army riding is put down to il sistema.
In England the forward seat achieved little popu-
larity. Though the present head of the Weedon
School, Captain Bowden Smith, Studied for two years
at Pinerolo, and though, judging by photographs, his
pupils do follow some of the principles of the forward
seat in jumping, he has shown no great liking for it,
and civilian riders are definitely sceptical.
Recent decisions of the International Federation
of Equitation, modifying the conditions of events at
the Olympic Games to bring them into line with
Italian ideas, have reawakened interest in the forward
seat in England. Three recent books argue as to its
value. The Forward Impulse, by Piero Santini
(Country Life; 12s. 6d.), goes into greatest detail.
Santini is an enthusiastic believer. He claims that the
forward position over the withers distributes the
weight of the rider more naturally over the horse’s
centre of gravity ; that the forward position of the
hands gives greater control in an emergency and still
leaves the animal’s head free in jumping high places ;
and, most important, that there is no weight on the
horse’s loins to impede its recovery. He makes out
a good case, and the photographs, some of the Grand
National, showing the disastrous effects of the older
methods—riders often relying on the reins to maintain
their seat—are even more convincing than his argu-
ments.
Just as enthusiastic, though he will have none of
the Italian ideas, is Lieut.-Col. S. G. Goldschmidt,
whose Skilled Horsemanship (Country Life ; 12s. 6d.)
is a further discussion of the English traditional style
he wrote of in Bridle Wise. It has a lot on the choice
of a horse, on its training, and on stable management,
but he devotes a chapter to condemning the forward
seat. “The forward seat is never seen in the Grand
National” ; therefore, he claims, it can’t be any good.
Most of his other objections arise out of misunder-
standing. The Italian idea is to leave the loins
free, keep the weight on the shoulders and off the
stirrups on landing, and in most cases, where the
horse is well trained, leave it to find its own way
out of pecks, stumbles and the like. Any attempt
at “collection” or gathering together will likely drag
the head down and in and complete a fall.
Major J. L. M. Barrett has little more use for
the forward seat than has Goldschmidt, but he admits
in Practical Jumping and Schooling (Country Life ;
10s. 6d.) that “the Italian seat is excellent for artificial
jumping, but impracticable for polo, hunting or
schooling.” He comments:
Some writers advocate the adoption of the Italian
seat for steeplechasing. If they could produce a suffi-
cient number of successful exponents the riding world
would be convinced.
The seat he recommends for jumping is very like
the Italian one. For the actual jump the rider takes
up the forward position, though he sinks back into
the saddle on the flat. The rider he chooses as “prob-
ably the best all-round exponent of horsemanship in
the United Kingdom” is the Captain Bowden Smith
who studied the Italian method at Pinerolo.
Each of the books is attractively put together and
well illustrated with photographs, Santini’s and Gold-
schmidt’s with pen and pencil sketches besides.
For those interested in riding but to whom dif-
ferences in the style of seat don’t matter there’s
another recent book, R. S. Summerhays’s Elements of
Riding (Country Life ; 7s. 6d.), giving hints on buying
a horse, saddling, riding, grooming and a lot more —
as much as the average man who enjoys riding as a
sport will ever want to know.
American Fashion Parade.
The Sisters, by Myron Brinig (Cobden-Sander-
son ; Moore’s Bookshop ; Bs. 6d.), 600 pages of fairly-
close print, is at fault both in style and narrative
artistry.
It purports to survey the American scene during
the early years of this century from the viewpoint
of Silver Bow, a Montana mining town. The chief
characters are Ned Elliott, a drug store proprietor,
Rose, his wife, and their three daughters, Louise,
Grace and Helen. Louise is a romantic who runs
away to San Francisco with a harum-scarum young
sporting reporter and has a life of passionate love
and economic difficulty. Grace, the plain girl of
the family, marries a banker’s son, Louise’s cast-off
beau, and enjoys domestic tranquillity. Helen is
a high-stepper who marries a middle-aged vulgarian
in order to get away to a world of wider opportuni-
ties and eventually has a spectacular stage career.
Save for the writer’s somewhat pompous
approach the book opens promisingly. Ned and
Rose are particularly attractive a simple, whole-
some couple, Americans of the Will Rogers tradi-
tion—and the budding lives of the girls seem to
foreshadow something in the nature of Arnold
Bennett’s Old Wives’ Tale. But with progress it
becomes disappointingly obvious that the author is
not losing himself in his story. He has his period
to show off and fails to see that a vital narrative
is the first requisite for his purpose. He arranges
the lives of his young characters to cover as much
ground as possible, but he refuses to. let them live.
Never does the reader feel that they are motivated
from within, living for themselves, their author a
mere recorder of their histories. Whether the scene
is Broadway, San Francisco's Chinatown or Silver
Bow’s Main-street, there is the feeling that he is
pushing them through their experiences in order that
his own ends may be served.
The author remembers that in a certain year Joe
Gans won the heavyweight championship, Theodore
Roosevelt was elected for his second term of office,
small boys were whistling .“Redwing,” motor-cars
shuddered violently while standing until the engine
was cut off, women wore large hats loaded with
artificial products of the orchard, garden and aviary,
Maxine Elliott was starring on Broadway, and a
hundred other things. But a mere aggregation of
minor detail does not express the spirit of an age;
and, while it may at first awaken a reminiscent
response in the reader, it only becomes tedious
without good drama to give it significance.
Synchronously with the decline of the story the
prose degenerates.
Tea-plantation Coolies.
Mulk Raj Anand’s Two Leaves and a Bud
(Lawrence and Wishart; 7s. 6d.) is a book with a
purpose, and, artistically, it nearly founders beneath
its load, but not quite. It is a plea, bitter and fierce,
for the coolies who work in the tea-gardens of Assam.
To make his point the author has divided the
action of the story between two worlds—that of the
coolies and that of the sahibs. This creates a weakness
that he is unable to surmount. Of the coolies he
writes with understanding and delicacy, but when he
comes to the Anglo-Indians his style grows harsh and
his treatment stilted and unreal. It is almost as if
the book were written by two authors.
Gangu, who had lost his land through his
brother’s debt, was recruited, with many fair promises,
to work on a tea plantation. He made the long
journey with his wife, his daughter Leila and his
little son. A simple man, gentle and lovable, his
tenderness for his adolescent daughter is exquisitely
portrayed. The little family is thrust into a harsh
new world. They must live in squalor, working under
overseers by day and watched by warders at night.
They can barely exist on their combined earnings. The
wife dies of malaria because the simplest precautions
to guard the health of the coolies have been neglected
by the plantation owners. To provide her funeral
Gangu is forced into debt. Interest mounts up against
him until he loses hope of freeing himself. He
attracts the unfavorable attention of the plantation
manager and finds himself humiliated, beaten and
hopelessly trapped; but he keeps the dignity of his
soul.
And the religion of fatalism, his faith in which was
increased by his knowledge of the inevitability of death,
unconsciously inclined him to build a shining ladder
between heaven and his lot.
To remain silent, to suffer and to stifle the bitterness
of his experience, to forgive, to cut the canker of resent-
ment out of his heart —that was now his innermost
instinci.
And so he forgave everyone.
But it was a positive and virile enough way of
forgiveness, in view of his submission not to them,
but to some higher force of fear in himself.
In this slow misery a violent and inconsequent
event occurs. Two coolie women quarrelled at work
and began to fight; a crowd gathered; the over-
seers set to work dispersing it with blows; Reggie
Hunt, assistant manager and drunken libertine, seeing
trouble, lost his head and rode down some of the
coolies. The coolies carried their injured to the doctor,
who, as they knew, sympathised with their lot. He
sent them in deputation to the manager, who fired on
them. The white population became hysterical, forti-
fied the club and sent for military help. Four bomber
’planes and a company of foot arrived and quelled
the rebellion. Only the courage of the doctor pre-
vented wholesale bloodshed. He was dismissed the
service, and a crushing fine was imposed on Gangu
as one of the deputation. Life slipped back into its
( Continued, on page 8.)


‘TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”—and in every act.
FAMOUS LOW PRICES.
THE SENIOR STORE.
that will be a Credit and
an asset to tiour
7 r-'A
\ \‘V(y i -tV
n
V
or
cr*
> 3
(m
'■"M I l/ct /
IlliSllSll
i»||
*
i
11
■
Hi
e
«
hi
I
IS
MMMiWgiMi Bppi
12
gag*
Mi
:
7
■ ' ■' :111l
JL * '■> j.
S'jiii-Si : .S -,i% •""'*?'
..
Ml
iStlf
This beautiful Oak Canteen contains 44
pieces, a complete service for six persons.
6 each Table and Dessert Knives,
Crown A 1 quality, with stainless mirror-
polished shaped blades. Also 6 each
Table and Dessert Forks, Soup, Dessert
and Tea Spoons and 2 Table Spoons, all silverplated. Crown
A 1 quality, Old English design. At Anthony Horderns, £7/10/-.
ANTHONY
HORDERNS'
’Phone: M2401< Day and Night.
Postal Address: Box 2712 C, G.P.O.
“CENTENARY” OAK CANTEEN
FD
DIXON’S Silverplated 3-pce. TEA SETS
A beautiful Tea Set, styled with distinction, and the plain design
is in perfect taste. The Teapot is in a two-pint capacity, and a
covered Sugar Basin and an uncovered Milk Jug complete the
set. At Anthony Horderns’ 75/-
75'-
Burr Walnut Cabinet Mantel Clock
A very attractive Clock and one that can be depended
upon for years to keep accurate time. It is an eight-
day style with full four quarter Westminster chimes.
Made by Smiths, of England. In fully-polished Burr
Walnut Cabinet. Width 1 Biin. x high, with 6in.
dial. At Anthony Horderns’ £5/10/-
fs'io-
SILVERPLATED CAKE DISH, Priced
This is a very popular style. Silver Plated on Nickel
Silver Cake Dish. It is complete with two serving forks.
A suitable gift for wedding or anniversary.
At Anthony Horderns’ 17/6
\Ts
Oven, Table Glass CASSEROLE
Ask the woman who uses Pyrex ware how time and
labour saving it is to bake and serve in the same dish.
You can serve foods piping hot in this Casserole. It has
cut-glass top and is in silverplated on nickel frame.
Size pints. At Anthony Horderns’ 37/6
L
‘Aristocrat 1 ” Gillette Razor
Thoroughly up-to-date and easy to use. This
new Gillette Razor has no loose parts and it
is all in one piece. Offered complete with
10 Blue Gillette Blades. At Anthony
Horderns’ 22/6
m
d Electroplate and Clocks —Ground Floor, Pitt Street. Freight
paid except on Clocks to all railway stations in N.S.W. and
seaports in the Commonwealth.


An Unusual Yarn
FOOTSTEPS
By PETER SADNESS
ILLUSTRATED BY SHELLEY .
This MS. was addressed to Dr. Guy Adams,
and is now published by him following the
death of the author, Mr. W. Arthur Stuart.
The peculiar circumstances of Mr. Stuart’s
fatal accident have been the subject of much
newspaper discussion. At the time, he was
standing some feet distant from a passing tram-
car when he suddenly staggered and fell, his
right side being almost shattered, as though
he had actually been struck by the tram. The
driver noticed the shock, but was positive that
the late Mr. Stuart was standing well clear of
the traffic. The conflicting evidence of the
hospital doctors and of eyewitnesses lent an air
of mystery to the accident that has never been
satisfactorily dispelled.
Written in my flat,
St. Kilda Road,
Melbourne,
2nd March, 1937.
THIS brief history need have no beginning and
no introduction. It is in no sense fiction—
unfortunately—and it is as much for my own
satisfaction and relief of mind as for any other
reason that I am attempting to record the several
queer happenings which have combined to set me in
my present predicament.
You will not have seen very much of this affair
in the papers except, of course, in connection with
Harold Pain’s death, my own rather hasty intrusion
into the incident having been kept pretty far in the
background—thanks mainly to Guy.
As far as this actual tragedy was concerned, it
must be considered as only a minor part of the main
phenomenon.
The peculiar manifestations which had disturbed
me (how easily one falls into the jargon of the horror-
monger!) had their beginning as long ago as 1933.
In January of that year Margaret and I went down
to Guy Adams’s place at Sorrento, anticipating one
of those really hot week-ends one hopes for in a
Melbourne summer but on which one can never rely
with any degree of certainty. Guy had been at
school with me, and we had both married, in the same
year, 1930. Guy’s wife, Gilda, used to hit it off
pretty well with Margaret, so we all four, I think,
enjoyed our week-ends down at the little stone cottage.
They were a very welcome respite from the ragbag
of town. Guy needed the rest much more than I.
He is a nerve specialist, and, as one frequently finds
in. men of his calling, appears more often than not
to be on the verge of a breakdown himself.
On this particular occasion we had sent the
wives and maid down in Guy’s car on the Wednesday
and we followed on the Friday night. I drove, and
we arrived about half-past six. The maid told us
that the womenfolk had gone down for a swim
about four o’clock and had not yet returned. Dinner,
she said, was intended for seven, but might just *as
well be later —wouldn’t we like to have a swim first?
This seemed a sound idea, and we tossed our hats
and coats on to a chair and Guy opened the side-
board. . ■ x ■ -
“How about a glass of ale?” he asked.
We stood on opposite sides of the little round
table on which Guy had placed the bottle and glasses
and watched the creamy froth climbing the clear
glass.
“Well, here’s fun!” said Guy, and lifted his glass.
“Fun!” I said, and moved to take mine, and
then a strange thing happened. While my hand was
yet a foot from the tumbler I felt very clearly the
cool contact of glass on my outstretched fingertips,
and at the same moment the glass overturned heavily,
as though sharply bumped, and broke, pouring its
contents across the table and over Guy’s trousers.
1 remember that scene very clearly. Immediately
on feeling the touch of the glass on my fingers I had
automatically withdrawn my hand a little and then
remained staring at it, bewildered and fascinated by
the peculiar effect. Guy, on the other hand, had had
his glass to his lips, and the first he knew was the
tinkle of the breaking tumbler and a certain wetness
just above the knee.
“God!” he exploded, putting down his own drink
and grabbing a handkerchief, “must you do that?”
“Awfully sorry, Guy—as a matter of fact, I
don’t think I touched it.” I was fumbling for words.
“Damn’ funny ; I suppose I must have.”
“Didn’t touch it!” said Guy on a note of cheer-
ful indignation. “You were too quick for me —you
saw me kick it over!”
“No,” I said, still puzzled. “But”
“One to sundries, old boy, that’s all! ” He had
filled another glass. “Get that one away and we’ll
slip down to the beach.”
I said nothing more, and no unforeseen event
marked my second attempt to lift the glass. As I
drank, Guy picked up the broken pieces from the
floor and set the maid about mopping up the mess.
We got togged, and the affair passed from my mind.
SOMEHOW or other we missed the womenfolk,
swam and returned, meeting them first at the
house. We all had plenty to talk about, and dinner
passed quickly enough ; we sat in the cool of the night
for an hour or so, and by common consent turned
in early.
Now, according to all the rules of the game, one
either made much of this sort of thing or ignored it
altogether, although on waking next morning it was
again in my thoughts. I decided to ignore it. Guy,
of course, had known nothing of it, and, anyhow,
I told myself, it was perfectly evident that my eyes
had played a trick. However, I found it was one
thing to decide to ignore < such a happening and quite
another to give effect to the decision, and as I shaved
myself the feeling became a conviction that some-
thing had happened to me that was beyond my nor-
mal comprehension.
I am afraid I must have been rather preoccu-
pied that morning, for I caught Margaret looking at
me once or twice, and Guy politely requested me to
“Snap out of it!” when I met his suggestion for an
early round of golf with what must have been a
more or less fixed stare. Well, we decided to play
golf before the heat set in. The women went swim-
ming again, and Guy and I slipped round to the
local links. We had plenty of time for eighteen
holes taken in a decent leisurely way.
We both got well away and halved the first in
four. The game went pleasantly enough. Guy made
one or two mistakes; 1 crowed in the approved
manner, and at the seventh tee I was two up, and
the tension was on.
“This one,” 1 said as I teed it, “is right down
the middle.”
Guy sniffed appropriately, and, leaning on his
wood, watched me prepare to swing.
There are times when, as you take the club back
for a drive, you know with an absolute certainty
that the ball will get away. This was one of those
times ; the club-head came back, grazing the grass ;
the weight changed rightly; down came the club-
head ; and then, instead of the smooth, almost unfelt
click of contact, the slight jar and shudder of the
shaft that tells of complete mistiming!
Annoyed and chagrined, I looked to the fairway.
Forty yards ahead the ball was still rolling between
the small wiry tussocks —topped! 1 picked up my
tee.
“Right down the middle,” I said, and laughed.
“Yes,” said Guy very quietly.
In the key we had chosen for the morning, there
should have been a word of banter and a somewhat
superior smile. Instead, Guy’s attention was still
riveted on the spot where my ball had been.
“Come,” I said, “see if you can force one ahead
of the favorite.”
.Guy seemed about to say something but thought
better of it, teed up and drove a spiritless ball with
a bit of hook on it, watched it finish its roll, grabbed
his bag a trifle hastily and set off down the left track
before I had picked up my sticks.
I watched him with speculation and then sought
my own ball—topped it had been, and badly so,
probably cut or dinted. Damn! Yet it had felt good
all the way. I hadn’t snatched at it or looked up,
and my weight had shifted perfectly back on to the
left foot again, but the club seemed somehow to have
got through too early. That was it—too early! The
contact had caught me unawares, just a fraction of
a second. And then unaccountably came into my
mind the little scene of the evening before. That, too,
was being caught off guard. Yes, that was what had
happened to-day —I had felt the contact before the
club ...
I looked quickly in Guy’s direction ; he was now
walking very slowly, apparently deep in thought. So
he had noticed it, too!
I took out a No. 4 and looked over my shoulder.
Guy had stopped and was watching me. I brought
back thl" club. This time there was no doubt. The
shot never had a chance ; I was shaky and unnerved,
and the ball bounded half-heartedly along and stopped
on the fairway about seventy yards away.
Guy turned without comment, and a few
moments later made his shot. It was obvious the
spirit had gone out of the game.
When we arrived at the next tee Guy deliberately
sat down on the grass and pulled out a cigarette,
tapping it quickly on the packet.
“Have one?” he asked.
“Not at the moment, thanks,” I said, and seemed
to be waiting for something.
Guy broke the ice. “Listen,” he said, “your
drive at the last tee. Did you notice anything funny
about it?” He didn’t wait for my answer. “I was
watching it; had my eye right on the ball ; you know
how you get accustomed to the departure of the ball
and the sound of the hit coinciding—well” He
stopped, almost embarrassed.
“I know,” I said. “They didn’t!”
We looked at each other for a moment or two,
and then Guy laughed, but I thought I detected a
trace of professionalism in his laughter.
“You remember that glass of beer I spilt last
night?” I said. “The same thing happened then, only
more so!”
He was serious again immediately. “You mean
that, Bill?”
I nodded. There was silence for a minute or so.
“Do you want to play on, or shall we give it
a rest?” he asked at last.
“I’m easy—we’ll play a hole or two, if you like."
We finished by playing out the nine without
further mention of the topped drive, and then driving
home and changing into beach togs. Neither of us
seemed willing again to broach the subject that was
certainly uppermost in my mind and I think also in
Guy’s.
AND now I come to the strangest and most signi-
ficant. of these curious little departures from the
normal that made my week-end with the Adamses
such a memorable one.
It was the evening of the golf episode. After
a cold supper we were playing a rubber of bridge
when Elder blew in. Jack Elder was an old fnenu
of ours and of the Adamses, and, having heard we were
down, had strolled round from the little week-end
cottage where, those days, he spent most of his time.


We played out our rubber and then resolved our-
selves into easy-chairs and paid homage to a little water-
color of the back beach that Jack had just had framed
for Gilda. It was a nice, clean little sketch, though we
all agreed that the treatment needed daylight to do
it justice. Small-talk strayed around these channels
till about eleven o’clock, and then Margaret and
Gilda, who had spent most of the day in the water,
decided it was time to turn in. We said our “good-
nights” and Jack prepared to go.
For a few moments we stood chatting at the
foot of the steps, and then I remembered that, though
I had been talking to Jack all the evening, I had a
piece of news for him that was really quite important.
“Guy,” I said, “I want to talk to this blighter
for a minute or two. I’ll stroll down with him.”
It didn’t take more than three minutes to teil
Jack about the property I had in mind, and in which
I thought he might be interested. It was time wasted,
anyway ; he had already turned it down. I accom-
panied him to his gate, refused his offer of a night-
cap, and set off back to the cottage.
There was just the slightest breeze through the
tea-tree. The limestone road ahead of me was white
under a half-moon, and my footsteps were the only
sounds. Suddenly I was sorry I was alone. For an
unaccountable reason I increased my pace, and as
the last turn in the road brought the dark shadows of
the tea-tree across my way I wished I was already
back.
Suddenly my heart stopped. Three paces ahead
of me a black shape lay in the road. In the shadows
I could not make out its outline. I stopped dead. In
my mind was the metallic ring of my shoes on the
road —“one, two, three... .thirty-one,” I had counted
to myself, “thirty-two, thirty-three,” and then I saw
the shape in my path and stopped ... “Thirty-four,”
said my mind, and to my horror I heard the footfall.
“Thirty-five! ” I knew I was standing still, but there
was the sound of it. “Thirty-six!” A yelp of pain,
and an old Airedale lurched to his feet. Suddenly
1 was on the road on my hands and knees, frightened
and cursing volubly, my heart thumping. Without
even glancing in the direction the dog had taken, I
picked myself up unceremoniously and ran at a mad
top speed to the house.
I found Guy sitting on the edge of the verandah,
a pipe stuck between his teeth and one eyebrow raised
inquiringly.
“Whisky for you! ” was all he said, and before
1 had time to reply disappeared through the dark-
ened door.
I was now sufficiently recovered to light a cigar-
ette, and did so with a feeling of relief. Guy appeared
with two healthy-looking noggins, and we disposed
of these before either of us spoke. Then Guy said:
“That was you belting along the road just now,
wasn’t it?”
“Yes,” I said, and added, “Don’t know why, Guy,
but I got the wind up over something ; tripped over
a dog, as a matter of fact.”
“It’s getting late,” said Guy after a few moments.
“I m turning in.” He knocked out his pipe.
“Me, too,” I said, and added, “Sorry, Guy.”
“Swim in the morning,” he replied. “Night-
night!” and was gone.
The next day we swam early and had late break-
fast. It was fairly clear that there would be a break
in the weather; the wind shifted westward early, and
by noon rain was imminent. After lunch we sat
around, as one does, waiting for the promise of the
morning to fulfil itself. We did not have long to wait,
and soon resigned ourselves to an afternoon irfdoors.
To me, at least, and perhaps also to Guy, the day
seemed interminable. He refrained from mentioning
my experience, and I, for my part, kept well off the
subject. Eventually we decided we might just as
well put our things in the cars and go back to town.
And in due course we said our farewells and departed.
Kj OW these three incidents constitute the sole
1 N evidence of my rather unusual—l shrink from
using the word—“case.”
After that one week-end the phenomena (if one
can dignify them by that name) ceased absolutely. At
least, they ceased for four years, and it was only in
February of this year that the next incident occurred
and brought the whole thing vividly to my mind ; this
time in an atmosphere of tragedy that has changed
the whole course of my life.
If I can do so, I want to describe this recent
incident completely dispassionately. Should I lapse
at times and show emotion I cannot help but feel, I
trust I shall be accorded a license justly my right
in the stress I have to bear.
A few months after our week-end at Sorrento
Gilda took hold of some sort of nervous disorder, and
refused absolutely to go down to the cottage. Guy
was pretty worried about her, and, mainly, I think,
to please her, sold the property, and our little four-
some ended. I know how much I missed our holi-
days the following summer, and I can only imagine
what it must have meant to Guy.
It was late in that March that Margaret, too,
became ill. I was in Adelaide on business, and in-
tended to return as quickly as possible. In Adelaide
I got a ’phone-call from Guy telling me that there
had been an acute appendix, and that Mercier had
operated three hours after 1 left, but everything was
apparently going well. I got back by ’plane, but not
in time —a haemorrhage had supervened that had
proved too much for her powers of resistance.
I shall never forget the kindness and understand-
ing of Guy and Gilda in their efforts to make things
as easy as possible for me. How thankful I was that
I had told Margaret nothing of my experiences on
that holiday—thankful, too, to-day, that she has not
had to share the crushing anxiety that is now my
shadow.
Again, then, to begin logically. Three years had
helped to heal my loneliness. I threw myself heart
and soul into work, and by the end of last year things
were looking fair enough. Nothing whatever had
happened to remind me of the Sorrento incidents, and
my life was a normal and busy one until February.
On February 9 I drove into town, parked the
car and got into the office about ten o’clock. There
I passed a very ordinary hour or so, till, about eleven,
Harold Pain rang. Was I'busy?
Well, yes, I said, I was ; what sort of business
did he think I ran, anyway?
Did I remember his telling me about the little
Sydney lass he had met going through to Brisbane
in November?
I did.
“Well, she’s coming down —express to-day. Gets
in at twelve-thirty. You and I are meeting her and
taking her to lunch. Must have your first-hand
opinion”...
In ten minutes we were on the way to Spencer-
street. “Nice fellow,” 1 thought as we waited for
the train. During the last couple of years I had seen
a lot of Harold and he had been cheerful company.
I hoped the girl was worth the trouble, for, if I knew
anything of symptoms, he was for it!
“For God’s sake, stand still!” I told him, and
smiled to myself, for he was pacing about, looking
at his watch in obvious distrust of the station clock
and the amplified voice of the “Man in Grey,” who
insisted that the express was “on time” and would
in due course arrive at No. 1 platform.
“What time did you say she got in?” I asked.
“Eh? —twelve-thirty,” he replied.
“Well, you’ve got five minutes—sit down,”
I said.
He looked at me as if I was a heretic.
“Sit down be damned!” he said, and continued
walking up and down the platform.
I shrugged mentally and followed him,
and then the first worrying thing happened.
We reached for the twentieth time a spot
on the platform at which, for some unknown
reason, Harold was convinced “her” carriage
would stop. The train was still not in sight.
Harold turned impatiently, and I, too, stopped.
But I heard a sound above the busy hum of the
station, the sound of a footfall —once, twice—exactly
in step with my own. Thinking nothing of it, I
glanced around. There was no one near enough to
have made that sound.
Suddenly the whole affair of years ago on the
Sorrento road recurred to me in all its force. I had
a peculiar sensation of heat and cold flushing and
cooling my face.
“Come on!” said Harold, and pulled out his
watch again..
“Northern express arriving Platform No. 1.
Northern express arriving Platform No. 1. On time!”
said the speakers.
“There she is,” said Harold, and in sheer nervous-
ness pulled out a cigarette.
“Stand clear, please!” Porters hustled to get
vantage points. #
For some obscure reason Harold now deserted
the position he had previously favored and moved
further up the platform, by now completely oblivious
of the fact that I was with him.
Resigned, I followed slowly. He was standing
between two porters at the edge of the platform. 1
strolled up and, just as the engine approached, stopped
to marvel at his obvious excitement. And then a cold
sensation gripped me —my footsteps were going on . ..
Fascinated, I listened to them—one, two —and then
an appalling realisation gripped me —I cried out sud-
denly, sharply: “Look out, Harold!”
Both porters half-turned to me. Harold didn’t
seem to hear. I opened my mouth to call again and
was conscious of a heavy bump on my chest and
knees. Four yards ahead of me, Harold swayed
violently and clutched the porter nearer him. For a
moment he hung there as the porter staggered to his
balance, and then he was gone.
The train was stopped. The station staff and
two or three policemen kept the people back from
the closed doors. Somewhere a woman was scream-
ing—for the first and only time in my life I fainted ...
I came to in a waiting-room some ten minutes
later, and went out with the policeman who had
brought me round. I assured him I was feeling all
right now.
“You were with him, weren’t you?” he asked.
I told him I had been.
“What was his address? We got ‘Somme-street’
out of the ’phone book. I think the doctor knew him
and rang there.”
“That’s right,” I said. “There’s no chance, I
suppose?”
“ ’Fraid not, sir. Poor fellow caught it rather
badly. I was right alongside when it happened, but
I didn’t see it properly, couldn’t make it out myself.
I’ll have to make a report on it, though. They’ve
taken him to the hospital and the doctor’s gone with
him. Do you want to make a statement —as witness?”
“No,” I said, “I don’t think so. I don’t have
to, do I?”
“No, please yourself ; do you feel all right now,
sir?”
“Yes, I’m all right, thanks,” I replied. “I think
I’ll get along. Here’s my card if you want me.”
“Excuse me asking,” said the policeman in a
confidential tone, “but —have you any idea what hap-
pened? The porter who was alongside him said he
was pushed by something, and the other porter said
someone called out ‘Look out!’ and he thought it
“This one,” I said, “is right down the middle.”


was you, warning your friend about being close to the
edge. Seemed funny.”
“Sorry,” I said ; “I’m afraid I can’t help you.”
“It was you that called out, was it?” he asked.
“Yes,” I said.
He shrugged his shoulders. “Well, that’s natural
enough, too. Well, I’ll be getting up to the station.”
ARRIVED home, I was faced with the problem of
what to do. I knew with an absolute certainty
that 1 had been responsible for Harold’s death—l
could still recall the impact. Yet no one would believe
such a wildly improbable explanation as I would have
to give, especially in view of the porters’ statement
that I was several yards from Harold when the “acci-
dent” happened. No one would believe that but —
of course, Guy! He knew! He alone knew! I
got up and went to the ’phone, but put it down again.
What was the use of getting Guy mixed up in the
thing? If anything should come out of it, Guy
would want to help me by backing up my story, and
that would only bring a lot of unwanted publicity
about his ears and perhaps damage him profession-
ally. And then suddenly it came to me —the girl! I
had not even thought of her till now!
I took my hat and started for the street again,
startled by the fact that it was already half-past two.
I paused at the car to buy an evening paper. There,
prominently in the centre column, was Harold’s photo-
graph, and in heavy type above: “Tragedy at Station.
Death of Young Businessman.”
There were only the barest details, but suddenly
the last couple of lines caught my attention. “Two
women who were eyewitnesses of the tragedy allege
that Pain threw himself in front of the train inten-
tionally. ...”
Suicide —so that’s what they were trying to make
it. That put an entirely different face on things—his
family, his friends, the girl! I got into the car and
drove to Russell-street headquarters.
Yes, they told me, he had died on the way to the
hospital—seemed to be suicide. They had had two
porters up and had statements from them, also two
women travellers. Was I the friend who was with
him? Did I want to make a statement? One porter
had said he was bumped by Mr. Pain, but didn’t
seem too clear about it; next thing he knew the man
had flung himself on to the rails. Would I tell them
what I knew or make a statement?
Even then I think I realised the futility of
attempting to tell my story.
“Sergeant,” I said, “it wasn’t suicide.”
“No?” said the sergeant. “Why?”
“I pushed him. Oh, I didn’t mean to ; it was an
accident, I bumped him.” I could see this was getting
me nowhere. “I was acting under a siiong outside
Even then I think l realised the futility of attempting to tell my story
influence, something it’s almost impossible to explain.
I —l pushed him!”
“Now, look here,” he said kindly, “you sit down,
sir, for a while. In here.”
He ushered me into a smaller room where a
clerk was checking papers. They thought 1 was a
crank, then! As he went out I caught a grin pass
between him and his assistant and one word very
softly—“Whisky.”
I walked back again into the office.
“Do you mind if I go?” I said rather stiffly.
“Just a minute, if you don’t mind.” The othet
man was on the ’phone. He put down the receiver
and nodded.
“That’ll be 0.K.,” said the sergeant, “if you
wouldn’t mind coming round in the morning. Let’s
see, we’ve got your address. That’ll be all right.”
So far I had been able to look at the whole affair
from the outside, but now the thought struck me —
the thought that has brought me to this state of nerves.
Four or five distinct unpleasant incidents in my life.
The last had been the means of the death of a friend,
but the next? What of the next?
That night I did not sleep ; every future move-
ment that I made would now be fraught with uncer-
tainty—worse, with fear!
The next day the department rang. I called there
and repeated my statement of the previous day. An
officer took it down ; I signed it. They seemed sur-
prised, I thought, that I had repeated it at all.
The sergeant called for other statements and com-
pared them and also two official reports.
“Thank you,” he said.
“What are you going to do about it?” I asked.
“Well, nothing! That’ll be all right.”
I left and went up to my office to get my mind
straight.
Later that day Guy caught me. I had quite deter-
mined to say nothing to him of the strange side of
the affair. We had both known Harold. Guy had
seen it in the paper that I had been with him at the
station. I don’t know how it happened, but somehow
the whole story came out.
Guy was terribly upset. I never saw a man so
moved.
“For God’s sake, don’t mention this to anyone!
You haven’t, have you?” And then suddenly: “The
police. What did you tell them?”
1 told him.
“Hell!” he said savagely. “Give us your ’phone.”
After an interminable wait he got the inspector
I had interviewed. He talked for a few minutes and
then put down the ’phone, deep in thought.
“They’re looking for you to-morrow for an
examination, Bill,” he said. “To discredit your damn’
silly statement they’ll want to establish that you re
not right in the head —either
permanently or temporarily
unhinged. It won’t worry
them which. You’ve got to
drop this business about the
whatever you like to call
it. You must take back
whatever you said, and excuse
yourself on the ground of
the very great shock to
your mind in seeing your
friend Listen, Bill,
you’ve just got to, do you
understand?”
“Guy,” I said, “I could
never sleep properly again
knowing what has happened
—and what may happen.”
“That is something you’ll
have to look after yourself,
but right now you’ve got to
get yourself out of this mess.”
f MANAGED the police
1 doctor easily enough. I
somehow fancy Guy had
been in touch with him,
though he said nothing about
it. I think he probably
reported, “Stated while tem-
porarily of unsound mind,”
or whatever it is they call it.
Guy seemed pleased
about the way it turned out.
He has been awfully helpful
about the whole affair, and
we have since then discussed
it from every angle. But no
amount of assurance from
him can counteract the horror
of anticipation which now
haunts my every waking
hour. I have not said any-
thing to him of this, but on
two occasions during the last
three days I have heard my
footsteps precede me —never
more than three or four steps
—but the feeling while wait-
ing for the outcome is in-
describable. I don’t think I
can stand much more of it,
and I have a fast-growing
idea that it is over.
I go out to-night, and I
have an unreasoning fear of
going out.
THE NEW JOB
BY G.C.B.
WHEN the Town Clerk tells me that old Stewart,
the council gardener, wants an assistant I
scratches me ’ead and tries to think of some-
one I could recommend —someone wot would
he grateful for bein’ recommended.
“There’s one or two deservin’ cases, Mr. Wallis,”
1 ses, thoughtful. “For instance, there’s”
“I wasn’t thinkin’ of no deservin’ case, Raggles,”
ses Mr. Wallis, “I was thinkin’ of you.”
“Wot! ” I ses. “Me !”
“Why not?” he ses, quite calm. “Stewart only
wants a man to ’elp ’im in the mornings. You’ll be
free to carry on with your ratcatchin’ in the after-
noons. You’ll report to Stewart at seven-thirty to-
morrer mornin’. And,” he goes on quick when 1 starts
to speak, “1 don’t want no argument about it. Seven-
thirty to-morrer mornin’. That’s all.”
I tried to point out a few things to ’im about
ratcatchin’, but you can’t talk to a man wot keeps
sayin’ “Seven-thirty to-morrer mornin’ ” every time
you open your mouth, so 1 shuts up about rats and
walks out in disgust after first sayin’ a few things
about parrots instead.
j T was near enough to seven-thirty when I reports
' to old Stewart, but from the way he looked at ’is
watch you’d ’ave thought it was just on knockin’ off
time. He was one of them quiet, sulky old blokes
wot grunts more than they talks, and ’is way of
askin’ me to cut the grass around the Memorial was
to point to the grass and a great ’eavy mower and
make a noise like severe indigestion.
He didn’t say a word for two solid hours; matter
of fact I wondered if he ’adn’t forgot ’ow to talk
altogether until I tried me ’and with the scythe and
misjudged the length of the blade, ’im bein’ closer
than I thought and bendin’ over a bed of forget-me-
nots. He performed like a madman, and later on,
after I ’ad finished doin’ a bit of weedin’, he give
another performance, a worse one, and he wouldn’t
listen while I tried to explain that not bein’ a gardener
I couldn’t be expected to know the difference between
weeds and young chrysanth’ums. He kept me on
sweepin’ up dead leaves on the footpaths after that,
and I felt my position pretty' keen, trampin’ about
with a big ugly broom and bein’ stared at by every-
one.
I’d just finished sweepin’ up the leaves alongside
Mr. Wallis’s ’ouse when lunchtime come, and 1 was
glad to get ’ome and ’ave a bite of lunch and start
on me real job, but I’d ’ardly finished eatin when
there’s a terrific bangin’ on the front door, and old
Stewart tells me in a shakin’ voice to come straight
to Mr. Wallis’s office. He didn’t give no reason, just
glared straight ahead lookin’ the picture of bad
temper.
“I got a good mind to sack you on the spot!’
was Mr. Wallis’s openin’ remarks.
Staggered! That was the only word for wot I
was. Staggered complete!
“Don’t stand there tryin’ to look innercent,”
shouts Mr. Wallis. “You know wot you’ve done.”*
“I do,” I ses quietly. “I’ve done ’arf of Stewart’s
work for ’im: weeded ’is gardens, swept up ’is
leaves”
“Yes,” ses Mr. Wallis. “And set alight to a pile
of ’em and burnt down ’arf my side fence!”
“Mr. Wallis,” I ses, shocked, “this is the first
I’ve ’eard of it. I remember sweepin’ up them leaves
extra careful on account of ’em bein’ alongside your
’ouse, but I didn’t ’ave time to clear ’em away. You
can’t blame me if some careless person comes along
and drops a cigarette or somethin’ on ’em. 1 ’aven’t
got time to foller people around to see where they
drops their bumpers, Mr. Wallis.”
“I got a good idea who dropped that one,” ses
Mr. Wallis, breathin’ ’ard.
“Then you want to speak sharp to ’im,” I ses.
“Why, he might do some real damage.”
“Real damage!” ses Mr. Wallis, ’arf chokin’.
“Real”
“I mean he might set someone’s ’ouse on fire,” I
ses. “Yours, for instance.”
Mr. Wallis gives a little jump and looks at me.
“Raggles,” he ses, speakin’ very slow, “if ever there’s
another accident like this through your carelessness
or if Stewart makes one complaint about you—just
one! —l’ll get another man to take your place as
assistant-gardener and ratcatcher. That’s the only
warnin’ you’ll ever get. Understand?”
“Stewart ain’t never ’ad no cause to complain,
Mr. Wallis,” I ses quietly, “and I can promise you
he never will ’ave.”
AND he ’adn’t. From the very next day I settles
down to take a interest in gardenin’. I worked
like a slave, cuttin’ lawns, trimmin’ ’edges, weedin’
very careful and sweepin’ up leaves till the streets
looked a picture. By the end of the week me and
Stewart was real pals. I borrered books on gardenin
from ’im and read ’em at night, and in the mornin
I’d ask ’im all sorts of questions about-roses and
manure and such things.
I never worked so ’ard in me life. People was
beginnin’ to notice ’ow nice the streets and lawns
looked, and Mr. Wallis, who’d ’ad good reports about
me from old Stewart, said somethin’ about givm’ me
a rise. .
It must ’ave been this remark of is wot give
me the idea I got sudden one night. I was sittin’
(Continued on page 7.)


studyin’ a gardenin’ book when the thought comes
to me that as I was doin’ most of Stewart’s work I
might as well do the rest and get paid accordin’, so
I writes a letter to the council pointin’ out that if
pore old Stewart, who was past ’is workin’ days and
couldn’t carry on without an assistant, was retired on
a pension I could do ’is job as well as me own. I
didn’t send the letter that night, thinkin’ I’d better
find out first wot Stewart thought about retirin’; but
when I give ’im back ’is books next mornin’ and
says in a careless off-’and way that he must be lookin’
forward to retirin’ soon he just gives me a quick
look and grunts ; and for the rest of the day he was
back at ’is old ’abit of gruntin’ every time I asked
’im anything.
It was a pity he wasn’t more pleasant, because
that was the last day I ever worked with ’im, Mr.
Wallis tellin’ me next mornin’ that Stewart ’ad found
he didn’t need an assistant no more. He didn’t give
no reason and I couldn’t think of none until I goes
’ome and looks for that letter. I ’unts ’igh and low
for it, and at last I asks Mrs. Raggles if she’s seen
one lyin’ around.
“You don’t mean the one you sent to Mr.
Stewart?” she ses.
“Wot!” I ses. “I didn’t send no letter to
Stewart.”
“Yes, you did,” she ses. A “You wrapped it up
with ’is books. Don’t you remember?”
“1 think I do,” I ses very slow and thoughtful, for
it ’.ad dawned on me tha-t the last time I ’ad seen
that letter it was lyin’ on the wrappin’ paper.
And that’s ’ow it is I’m back on me real job and
only doin’ one man's work, while Stewart is tryin’ to
prove he ain’t as old as he looks by doin’ the work
of two.
The Troubles of the "Illegitimately Married”
mm. ICOWGCiACW
BY UAROLD MERCER
DRAWING BY ARIA.
44 I EALOUSY,” remarked Mrs. Parsley, “is a
I green-eyed lobster which runs around the
yj earth seeking whom it may devour.”
Even for Mrs. Parsley this was an
astonishing utterance, causing my pen to droop into
inactivity as I looked up in surprise. That, of course,
was the voluble lady’s opportunity. “The Bible says
that, and it’s gospel truth as ever was. But for that
it would never have happened. Number Sixteen has
been and done it.”
Number Sixteen appeared to me to be one who
wandered this earth looking for punches on the nose.
His mission was to challenge everybody else’s
opinions and flaunt his own. Still, I was sorry to
hear that he had “done it.”
“When did it happen?” I asked.
But Mrs. Parsley is not as easy as all that.
“When first Hocknay came here,” said my land-
lady, “he told me that he was an iconoclash.
“ ‘Mr. Hocknay,’ I says, ‘what is people’s religious
beliefs does not concern me as long as they pay their
rent and are otherwise respectable.’
“ ‘My name is just Hocknay; don’t call me
“Mister,” ’ he says ; ‘the title is an insecure revival
of the past. The point I want to make clear is that
I and Jennie Collins are not married. We don’t
believe in marriage and we don’t believe in any lies
about it.’
“Imagine how I felt! He had me gasping for
breath. If an earthquake had opened up beneath my
feet and hit me in the face I couldn’t have been more
flapper gas ted.
“ ‘Mr. Hocknay,’ I says firmly, ‘my house is a
respectable house, and I want to keep it so. Never
in all my born existence have I had anyone who
deliberately said, if they was couples, that they was
not married. I can hardly believe my ears, after
you paying a fortnight’s rent in advance and all!
You know your own business best, but I can hardly
believe that sweet little wife of yours is not your
wife.’
“ ‘Of course she is my wife in the sight of
heaven,’ he says.
“ ‘Well, now, I call that quite respectable,’ I says,
relieved, because naturally I didn’t like to send away
people who seemed so respectable. ‘l’m sure nothing
could be more respectable than the face of heaven,
providing you don’t mention it to other people who
may not be as religious as I am,’ I said.
“You see, their not being married being a matter
of principle, as they say, made it different.
‘ ‘ D UT apart from that I often wished I had told
‘—’ them to go. Hocknay hadn’t been in the place
a day before he began telling people they was wrong
in their ideas, and how wrong everything was that
everybody else thought was right. He was an icono-
clash all right. When the disturbances started in
number sixteen I dare say you heard them?”
I had. It would have been impossible not to
hear those sounds which had periodically disturbed
the night silences.
“I thought at first that when he said he wanted
to break everything he might mean my furniture too.
But it was only his way of talking. Certainly if I
had known about the green-eyed lobster I would have
told them to go. It began with young Mr. Hopper,
Number Ten, getting very sympathetic with the young
woman.
“ ‘She’s a splendid girl,’ he says to me. ‘Mrs.
Parsley, I think it terrible ; she’s only young, and of
course she believes what that windbag tells her. But
it must be terribly humiliating for her, him insisting
on her using her own name, Jennie Collins.’
“ ‘She worships the very ground he talks on,’ I
told him.”
A swift glance at Mrs.
Parsley assured me that she was
not consciously striving to be
smart; these verbal breaks were
an unconscious gift.
“ ‘I know she is unhappy,’ he
says.
“He was right. Jennie did
not see why they should be so
proud of not being married ; I
know that, because sometimes
when I had to go up to ask them
to be quieter, for fear of waking
the baby, I overheard them.
“When Jennie used to say
that she didn’t see that it would
be such a very great harm to
their principles to get married he
would rave at her about having
taught her to throw off the
shekels. Which was very true, for they had very little
money. He’d say, too, that he’d hoped she would
assist him in his perspirations. Then sometimes he’d
talk about suicide. It was no good trying to teach
the world sense, and a man might as well finish ; but,
between you and me, I reckon that suicide talk was
used to work Jennie up when he found his talk of
throwing off the shekels and defiling conventions didn’t
depress her.
‘‘'T'HE first time I knew that young Hopper had
* taken Jennie Collins to the pickshers was one
night when I heard them talking so loud that I had
to go up and tell them about waking the baby again.
“ ‘We’re not married,’ I heard her saying. ‘You
say yourself that we are free agents ; yet just because
Mr. Hopper, seeing me moping about the landing
waiting for you to come home, asked me to go to the
pickshers, you make this fuss!’
“That was the start of it. You could see that the
green-eyed lobster had bitten Hocknay. He was like
a cat on hot bricks which pulls the chestnuts out of
the fire, coming home unexpectedly ; and the way
he looked at young Mr. Hopper was as if he’d like
to kill him dead fatally, in spite of his fine words
about everybody having the right to live his own life.
I was always dreading that there was going to be a
fight and murder done.
“But matters became quiet suddenly ; even the
arguments they had in their flat, if they had them,
didn’t sound so loud.
“ ‘Aren’t you saying anything to the young
woman in number sixteen now?’ I asked Mr. Hopper
one day, noticing that I hadn’t seen them talking
for a long time.
“ ‘We’re avoiding each other; it’s at her wish.
She said our being friendly only made trouble. I’d
do more than that for her,’ says Mr. Hopper.
“But the arguments started again ; that poor
Jennie was tired of being illegitimately married and
everybody knowing it. ‘Why can’t I say I’m married?’
I heard her say one day. Of course he raved about
throwing off the shekels and his perspirations, but
the argument went on.
“That’s how the green-eyed lobster got in some
more dirty work. Hocknay had thrown himself out
of the flat in a temper at her arguing with him one
day, and in the hall he met Miss Blimber, who is
Number Twenty-one. She used to go to some of the
meetings he went to.
“Jennie, rushing out to call him back, as she often
did when he left like that, saw them walking away
down the street together arm in arm. She just stared
as if she had seen an aperient, as they say ; and I
could see that that green-eyed lobster had got another
victim.
“At all events Jennie went to the pickshers with
young Mr. Hopper that afternoon.
‘ ‘ A FTER that the flats was in the fire, as the saying
** is. The way matters went I was wondering
which I would have to ask to leave for the sake of
peace. There was Hocknay going out deliberately
with Number Twenty-one because he was angry with
Jennie, and Jennie talking to Hopper whenever she
could to revenge herself on Hocknay. As for young
Mr. Hopper, he was plainly infatuous with her.
There was the infernal triangle working itself out
in my flats and me powerless to help.
“There would be rows, too, and Hocknay talked a
lot about making an end, which I always say those
who talk about it most never do it. Though you
never know, of course. There was such a row last
Tuesday that I had to interfere. The four of them
was at it outside number sixteen.
“‘What do you care about her?’ Hopper was
saying. ‘I love her. I am prepared to marry her!’
“ ‘I won’t have this
going on in my corridor,’
I says firmly. ‘My cor-
ridors have always been
respectable. Their own
flats is the place for
people to have rows in,’
1 says.
“Somehow I got
them sorted out and
separated ; and I went
into their fiat with Hock-
nay and Jennie.
“ ‘lt’s a long worm
that has no turning,’ I
says, ‘and I’m turning
now. This has got to
stop.’
“ ‘lt’s going to stop! ’ says Hocknay. ‘Mrs. Pars-
ley, this woman prefers the Boog War.’
“I’m sure she doesn’t want war if you don’t
make it!’ I says tartly. ‘l’ll have no war in my fiats.’
“‘Jennie’s in love with that dull clod Hopper!’
cries Hocknay.
“ ‘He’s not a dull clod ; but I’m not in love with
him,’ says Jennie. And she starts to cry. ‘I love you,
know I do. I’ll tell Mr. Hopper I don’t
want to see him again.’
“Well, wouldn’t you think that that was all very
nice and dissatisfactory, and that they would let sleep-
ing dogs die? As they seemed to be doing for a day or
two. But there was that awful argument they had
last night, with Hocknay talking of making an end
even though it was after twelve and other people
wanted to get to sleep.
“And this morning Hocknay’s been and gone and
done it.”
“Done what?” I demanded. “Not committed
suicide?”
“Not him! He’s gone and deserted that poor
little Jennie. Heartbroken she was ; but I think that
young Hopper is bringing her round. She’s very
fond of young Hopper, I think.”
“Well now, I suppose,” I said with a smile, “young
Hopper will marry her; it will be a case of ‘they
lived happy ever afterwards.’ ”
Mrs. Parsley looked at me blankly.
“But they can’t,” she said. “Leastways they
won’t be able to until she has got a divorce, although
what they may do in the meantime I don't know, and
I don’t blame them, either.”
“A divorce!” I cried.
“I forgot—l didn’t tell you. I only knew myself
this morning,” said Mrs. Parsley. “They were married,
that pair. It happened when Hocknay was so badly
bit by the green-eyed lobster in the first place. He
married Jennie secret-like, hoping that would satisfy
her ; but he made her promise to keep it a secret.
He was. terribly ashamed of having married against
his principles. It was when he found that Jennie
had told young Mr. Hopper about her being really
married, to explain why she was giving him the go-by,
that Hocknay became so bitter that he made up his
mind to desert her.
“‘Jennie has betrayed me, Mrs. Parsley!’ he
said when he came to see me before he left. “She
has humiliated me. I will never be able to look in
the face again the people who know my opinions!’
“I didn’t know that it was all about the shame
of his having got married until I spoke to Jennie.
It must be terrible to be like him,” concluded Mrs.
Parsley musingly. “But I’ll more iconoclashes
in my flats.”


old dreary rut, but Gangu was not to escape so lightly.
Leila attracted the attention of Reggie Hunt a
situation the reader had long been expecting. She
fled, but he followed her even into her father’s hut.
The old man is shot down protecting his daughter.
Reggie, tried for murder, is acquitted by the majority
vote of a jury of seven Europeans and two Indians.
The incredibly gross Reggie weakens rather than
strengthens the author’s case. Only the doctor, among
the sahibs, is a living human being, but he is almost
lost to sight under the propaganda load he is made to
carry. Anand blames the false romanticism and blind
pride of the ruling class for India’s sorrows.
The pictures of plantation life are interesting.
Wyndham Lewis's Satirical Novel.
Wyndham Lewis’s novel The Revenge for Love
(Cassell; Moore’s Bookshop ; 10s.) is a brilliant topical
.satire on the Spanish crisis and the Fascist-Communist
entanglement in Europe. The criticism of society
which gives the slender story its stature is entirely
destructive. It is a picture of far-reaching disillusion-
ment and deep-rooted baseness. Lewis turns on all
parties alike a fire-hose of bitter mirth.
The book begins in a farcical Spanish prison,
where Percy Hardcaster, a Communist agent, is the
star boarder. His escape is arranged, but a hitch
occurs in the mechanism of bribery and Percy is shot
in the leg. This is followed by a hospital scene
enlivened by a spirited contest in proletarian snobbery
between Percy and another patient.
Percy returns to London as a great party hero
and is lionised at parties with “hard-boiled Soviet
eggs” and “patriotic caviare.”
Of course all the men thought constantly how exceed-
ingly unpleasant it would be to have a wooden leg.
An advertisement it was not, from that standpoint, of
unsalooesque class-warfare. It made their own legs
feel quite uncomfortable to look at it—and they
couldn’t help looking at it. Percy saw to that! But
of course such things only happened to workmen—-no
one but a workman would ever go where things of
that order were likely to occur to his legs (just
look how they fall off scaffoldings or lose their arms in
printing presses or Lancashire looms, and think nothing
of it). But one and all in their hearts determined that
it was more necessary than ever to see to it that they
should remain the brains of the Revolution. Never must
they allow themselves to be inveigled into situations
where such a drastic disfigurement awaited them, now
or at any future time.
4 From this point the book spreads out; practically
the whole surface of life is involved and a large
menagerie of characters is brought on the stage.
Percy, who is anything but a hero, exchanges one
brand of disillusionment for another and returns to
the Spanish frontier in the gun-running interest, taking
with him Victor Stamp, an Australian painter (who
grew more Australian when drunk), at an infinitesimal
salary to undergo all the risks.
Stamp and his wife Margot are the only human
beings in the book, and they are presented as helpless
dupes made vulnerable by their love for each other
and the streak of nobility that survives in them. The
implication of the book’s title is that a world of jackals
will inevitably revenge itself on any fine and generous
impulse. Victor is sacrificed to the exigencies of the
gun-running business ; Margot’s efforts to save him
involve him still more deeply. They, poor innocents,
take it all seriously and, having killed a civil guard,
throw themselves over a cliff. Percy reads the news
with scant interest in the Spanish prison where he is
now comfortably lodged, waiting for his escape to
be arranged—more efficiently this time, he hopes.
A Master in Slang.
In 1914, in his first year at Queensland University,
Eric Partridge produced his first published book, a
thin volume of verse translations from French poetry,
of which work he suspects, and hopes, that he is the
only person to have kept a copy. It was not the first
work he had written: at 12-13, “being at the time in
New Zealand, at sea (in more senses than one) and
in Australia,” he had written a 70,000-words novel
in his “already-execrable hand.” In April, 1915,
“being now of age,” he enlisted as a private in the
A.1.F., and a private he remained. Back at Queens-
land University, he “was fortunate,” he says, to beat
Jack Lindsay in 1921 for the State Travelling Fellow-
ship. With two years of hard student work he
gathered in a B.Litt. and Queensland Uni.’s M.A.
degree, and since then he has been in England, lectur-
ing at various universities and editing, writing or pub-
lishing a long string of books.
These brief biographical particulars are taken from
an appendix to A Covey of Partridge, an anthology of
essays, stories and verses from his writings over the
past 20 years published early this year by Routledge.
Since then Routledge has also published his monu-
mental Dictionary of Slang and Unconventional
English.
In both books the Partridge chirpiness is well in
evidence. In the Covey it enlivens essays on words,
literary characters and their works, literary curiosa
and the like, and the particularly fine fragment of
autobiography which was his contribution to Three
Personal Records of the War, by R. H. Mottram,
John Easton and himself; the account of experiences
which helped to qualify him as joint editor, with John
Brophy, of the justly famous Soldier Songs and Slang.
This again, with other like books he has had a hand
in since, was preparation on the road to the. Slang
Dictionary, a huge tome hall-marked by fine scholar-
ship and an extraordinary knowledge of vernacular
speech and of the underworld of taboo language that
lurks beyond it; the language that is conventionally
treated as if it did not exist, and yet survives, unprinted,
almost by word of mouth alone, from generation to
generation, changing, words in it becoming obsolete
and others added—an outcast language that lives a
pariah existence of its own. There is one page short
of the thousand in the Dictionary, and every page is a
little mine of curious information most entertainingly
opened up. ~ ~ -
The Dictionary ends on a question which some-
body hereabouts might be able to answer for Mr.
Partridge: “Zack. A sixpence: Australian: from
the 1890’s. Origin?” It is one of scores of Australian
references. The first of these, very properly, is “abo;” ;
next door to it, “aboliar.” Mr. Partridge is probably
wrong in applying “aboliar” generally to “a regular
writer on aborigine lore or of aborigine stories.” It
is a local term of endearment for each other used by
writers of The Bulletin’s “Aboriginalities” ; at any
rate, the present reviewer has never come across it
elsewhere, Mr. Partridge dates it from 1910, and
has it as colloquial by 1925 and virtually jargon by
1936. He. adds:
It is a coinage of The Sydney Bulletin [no such paper; it
is The Bulletin], which, by the way, also coined Billjim and
Maoriland. Cognate, and from the same mint, is aboriginality,
a (preferably original ) contribution to aborigine lore: Aus-
tralian colloquialism: 20th century. Generally in plural, in
which shape it heads a column in The Bulletin.
C. J. Dennis, naturally, is his reference for many
Australianisms, among them “an also ran” for a
nonentity (from horseracing), “toss in the alley” (from
marbles) and “the dead ring” for “very similar.”
Other Australianisms:
Anzac wafer. A large (hard) army biscuit: New Zealand
soldiers’. [Mr. Partridge should have heard it similarly used
in the A.I.F.]
Our ’Arbour! A Melbourne catch-phrase at Sydney’s
expense: 20th century. Sydneyites being apt to boast about
their very beautiful harbor, in retaliation they gibe at Mel-
bourne’s rather smelly river, the Yarra.
Artesian. Beer made in Australia. [Mr. Partridge dates
it 1880-1914. It appears now to be extinct —the term; not the
beer.]
Australian flag. A shirt-tail rucked up between trousers
and waistcoat: 1870-1910. [Another of the extinct?]
Australian grip. Hearty handshake. [Mr. Partridge dates
this 1885-1914. It’s still going strong.]
Back of Bourke. The farthest distance known. [Some-
times used in this sense, perhaps; but mostly to mean a long
way inland. In N;S.W. often used literally.]
Back the barter. To intervene unasked (C. J. Dennis).
Not bad. [Mr. Partridge does not give this as an Aus-
tralianism, but as an English upper-classes’ x colloquialism for
“quite good.” It is one of the commonest of Australian
colloquialisms, used with more shades of meaning than perhaps
any other, comparing in this respect with the American
“says you.” “How’s the crop?”—“Not bad,” might mean
a bumper crop in the offing; “How’s the wife?” —“Not bad,”
might mean that she’s in hospital and likely to die.]
Badger. In Australia, though ever less, used catachresti-
cally for a bandicoot, rock-wallaby or, especially in Tasmania,
a wombat. 7' "
Rough as bags. Extremely uncouth; very “tough.” [Mr.
Partridge seems to hold this an Australian war-time coinage
and legacy since. It certainly is still going strong, but isn’t
it of earlier vintage?]
Banker. A river running flush —or almost flush —with
the top of its banks. 1888; colloquial by 1890 and “accepted”
by 1900, if not before.
Bark up the wrong tree. [Still freely used in Australia.
Mr. Partridge gives its origin as United States', 1833.]
Barney. The invariable Australian nickname of men sur-
named Allen, ex Barney Allen, a famous and very wealthy
bookmaker. [Barney Allen, still on deck, is not now wealthy.]
Barracking. [Mr. Partridge nearly goes into an essay on
this. He dates it from 1890, and mentions authorities who
hold it as derived from costermonger Cockney barrakin, barri-
kin, meaning gibberish, a jumble of words, and those who hold
it as derived from the aboriginal borak. He himself holds it
to be derived from barrikin, influenced by borak, a conclusion
equal to Solomon at his best. He rightly dismisses the notion
put forward by the Shorter Oxford Dictionary that it is
employed to disconcert players, and gets nearer the mark in
concluding that it is employed merely to demonstrate and
emphasise the spectators’ displeasure. When this displeasure is
extreme, however —as during the Jardine XI tour —there is
barracking in the Oxford Dictionary sense. On the other hand,
most of the barracking that goes on is attempted wit or sheer
exuberance, without bite.]
Basket of oranges. A pretty woman. [This one must
be defunct. Mr. Partridge has it as from the same phrase
first used of a discovery of nuggets of gold in the goldfields.
He calls it obsolescent; it must be a long time since it was
last heard.]
Billjim. An Australian. [Mr. Partridge dates this from
1912. Another Bulletin coinage, but one of the least
successful, The Bulletin using it for the A.1.F., where
Digger, of course, prevailed.]
Billy. [This one is well enough established.]
Billy Bluegum. [Mr. Partridge gives this as the name
for a koala. Has it had such a wide application? It was
used by The Bulletin, particularly apropos of Norman
Lindsay’s drawings of koalas.]
Bingy; bingey. [Mr. Partridge slips on this one. “Or,”
he says, “as The Sydney Bulletin, keeping closer to the abo-
riginal, spells it, binghi.” He adds as its meaning, “stomach,
belly.” The Bulletin, of course, uses binghi for abo.; any
abo., or the whole family. It uses bingy for belly.]
Bluey. [Mr. Partridge has this as Maoriland for a sum-
mons. It may have originated there, but it has long been
so common in Australia as to be almost standard English
here —Judge Curlewis might conceivably take it in his
stride. Mr. Partridge, of course, also has it for a swag and
as nickname for a redheaded man, in which sense, curiously,
he appears to limit it to Australia and Maoriland.]
Boomer. [Mr. Partridge has this as adapted from its
application to a very large kangaroo to mean anything very
large, and rates it slightly obsolescent. It is still common
enough, mostly for an exceptionally ambitious lie.]
Booze-fighter.- A notable drinker: a drunkard. [Mr.
Partridge this to Australia, 1915 ; thence to America,
1916. It is not much used in Australia now, its place,
apparently, having been taken here by booze-artist, which Mr.
Partridge doesn’t list.]
Borak. [To poke borak is given by Mr. Partridge both
in its common usage, “to jeer,” and —surely very rare! “to
impart fictitious news to a credulous person.” He adds:
“A N.S.W. aborigine word, it had, by 1923, so spread that
Manchon classifies it simply as military and nautical.”]
Brickduster. A duststorm.
Brickfielder. A Sydney colloquialism for a cold dust- or
sandstorm brought by southerly winds from near-by brick-
fields and sandhills. Ca. 1830-90. But from 1860 and pre-
dominately from 1890, the word has meant a severe hot wind,
with dust or without. The change of meaning was caused
largely by the disappearance, ca. 1870, of the brickfields them-
selves. [Rarely heard in Sydney nowadays; common enough
in Melbourne.]
-Brumby. [Mr. Partridge gives this as perhaps ex abo-
rigine Booramby, meaning wild, but quotes Morris as his
authority for this: “The ‘lllustrated Tasmanian,’ June 13,
1935, in a convincing article on ‘Wild Brumbies,’ states that
the term arose in the second decade of the nineteenth century
in N.S.W. and that the term derives ex Major Wm. Brumby;
he was a keen breeder of horses, and many of his young
horses ran more or less, finally quite, wild. The Brumby
family now lives in Tasmania.”]
Buckley’s (chance). A forlorn hope: Australian: from
ca. 1875. C. J. Dennis. [Mr. Partridge gives one authority
as holding: “Buckley was a declared outlaw whose chance
of escape was made hopeless.”]
Bull. [Given as a military nickname for Allenby, which,
of course, it was; but it was generously bestowed by the
A.I.F. on sundry of its leaders, among them Bull Ryrie and
Bull Antill. Mostly a matter of physique, though not in-
variably.]
Cabbage-tree mob; cabbagites. [A forerunner, Mr. Part-
ridge has it, of larrikins, which he quotes as being originally
and mainly Australian. He has the Melbourne “Herald” as
using it, with one “r,” in 1870: “Three larikins had behaved
in a very disorderly manner in Little Latrobe-street.”]
Chancet or chanct; chanst. [Mr. Partridge has this as a
solecism for “chance,” credits it to Australia, among other
places, and asks “Since when?” In Australia it must be very
rarely, if ever, heard in speech. Some writers use it in dia-
logue, with unnatural effect.]
Chip. [ln the sense of “to ‘cheek,’ interrupt with im-
pertinence,” Mr. Partridge suggests as the origin of this phrase
“the flying-off of wood chips.”]
Clean-skins. Unbranded cattle. [Mr. Partridge is surely
wrong in having it that this is “rare in the singular”; “a
clean-skin” is quite common.]
Cliner. A girl [Ex Yiddish, Mr. Partridge suggests.]
Crack hardy. [Mr. Partridge has this correctly as “to
endure patiently, suppress pain or emotion,” but another
meaning he gives for it, “to keep a secret,” must be very rare.]
Cobber. [Mr. Partridge says: “A trustworthy corre-
spondent (a writing man) tells me that he heard it among
racing-men of the lowest sort in the year 1900. Ex Yiddish
chaber, a comrade.”]
Dad. [Mr. Partridge has surely a far-fetched entry here:
“In Australia, at first colloquial but soon official, ‘dad’ is the
name given, especially in Anzac Day celebrations, to the
fathers of those men who served with the Australian force
during the war.”]
Digger. A common form of address —originally on the
goldfields —in Australia and New Zealand since 1885, and
especially common in the Great War and onwards. [ln
regard to this last, Mr. Partridge suggests that it was prob-
ably revived by “those who shovelled Gallipoli into sand-
bags.”]
Dingo. [Mr. Partridge has only one usage—that of the
British Arnriy for “slightly insane,” a variation of “ding-
bats.” In Australia it is common for indicating as emphati-
cally as possible that a man is a cur or in some other way
objectionable.]
Dinkum. [ln Lincolnshire dialect, says Mr. Partridge, we
find “fair dinkum” for “fair play” before 1898. He gives its
Australian date as 20th century.]
Divot-digger. [Dated 1935 by Mr. Partridge, this is the
pen-name of a regular Bulletin contributor, who might be
able to throw some light on its origin. It is used, of course,
for a clumsy golfer.]
The Farinaceous City. Adelaide. [Mr. Partridge mentions
Anthony Trollope in connection with this usage; it must have
just about died with Trollope.]
Gum-tree. [Among several entries under this head Mr.
Partridge has “Strike me up a gum-tree,” with the quaint
comment: “The gum-tree has very hard wood and is difficult
to climb.” That this has anything to do with the phrase
seems doubtful; the mere commonness of gum-trees and the
Australian fondness for “Strike me!” expressions sufficiently
explains it.] .
Hobo. [Mr. Partridge has this as applied in Australia and
Maoriland to “a rough-and-ready” fellow, but—in Australia,
at any rate —it is usually used to mean a seedy down-and-out.
He adds that its etymology remains a puzzle.]
Hop. [Mr. Partridge has this as applied here since 1935
to a policeman, but John Hop is the usual term.]
Jackaroo. [“Either,” says Mr. Partridge, “ex Johnny Raw
after kangaroo or ex the Brisbane aborigines’ name (originally
for a garrulous bird) for a white man.”]
Jack the Painter. [One of the quainter of Mr. Partridge’s
listed Australianisms. Now, as he says, obsolete, it was once
a name for very strong tea, from “the mark it leaves around
one’s mouth.” Perhaps they don’t —or can’t —drink tea like
that now.]
Jimbugg. [This is given as the original form of “jum-
buck.” Mr. Partridge quotes Morris: “Originally the native's
pidgin English; the word meaning, in aborigine,, a white
mist, the only thing with which a flock of sheep could be
compared.”]
There are scores more Australianisms among Mr.
Partridge’s pages, though the foregoing—obviously
from the first half of the book —include the best.
Many Australians would be competent to add to the
listing or give Australian applications of phrases not
thus extended in the general list: e.g., Mr. Partridge
has “a touch of the tar-brush” for “the naval officer
who is primarily an efficient seaman” ; it is a common
Australianism for one suspected of having some black
blood in him.
Even the comparatively few examples given here
might be enough to start a dozen or two Aboliar con-
troversies ; in any case, to give more would be to mis-
represent Mr. Partridge’s work, to which Australian-
isms are merely incidental. For instance, a list at
least four times as long as that given here could be
made of words and phrases associated with drink and
tippling, and similarly with words touching on other
matters. .
Mr. Partridge has gone into the underworld ot
our language and mined it with extraordinary
thoroughness —not the underworld language, but the
underworld of the language itself. A word of warn-
ing: those who prefer to believe or make-believe that
such a language —such words, such terms and such
low applications —represents merely the occasional
speech of depraved minds would be advised to leave
Mr. Partridge’s book alone. Those who are worldly
enough to know how alive this underworld of lan-
guage is and how very thinly it is covered by the
veneer of polite speech will find Mr. Partridge’s big
volume one of the most reliable, as it is one of the
most curious and brightly compiled, dictionaries ever
put together.


mxi
£
\\:v
f t j
's |||§ | i||
\ ..
SV "
% \* .
...**«***
■'; fiSjWSjSSp?-:?®
K&MiS
Ho-'****
A***
m&m*
.—wm******?*.*******? 1
if ♦*►*>:
*♦*•*>***<»♦"
> \s, s'S.&S
s
EARLY 1938 SAILINGS TO LONDON
Included in the sailings for London early in 1938, it will
be noticed that there are three new “Strath" Steamers,
viz.: “Strathmore," "Stratheden," and “Strathallan."
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY:
P & O
ROYAL MAIL LINERS


ROYAL
PURPLE
PARA
* LJMfi*
; %| rlhWr
m nnnrrrai
uu
fIM H'Hl
2sl ? 11
liw
II *1
Bmm
riirT'i ;i i
I I
fa! lij 1
Hi
i r
H 553 - #9S m **
mm
mm
-z. . - H
:■ ■;
I
»BiMIM
" ' m
■
K : ;T: ' jHHttMjljl
BPW
"V‘
„ , sfik4 y »■
n ** ■ i ■ s s..
i ■
•'■:
■I
■
fij
■
n n
; ; 4B*
/
y p y v y
iii#i!iiilllp
■■Bl _.
J^' I .■/>.:■ 11l llSll 11 H H lllißi
r \< ■ - > '-%■
r
yy nmmm
■ : , ,^7
77-7- : ;;: :
1
7^7;7-:V-777
■
'liPlPill r r "
>/7'—.^C,
-I
MM
HI | » §§§
niHV
■HUI
- .
HI
Further Interior View of One of the Numerous Storage - Cellars,
vme


THE NEW SOUTH WALES PARLIAMENT IS IN SESSION.


The bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : National Mutual Buildings, 91
King William Street, Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Saywell Buildings, 115 Lambton
Quay, Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London,
E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 15s. 6d.;
3 months, Bs.
Posted Free to any address Overseas (Foreign):
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 25.; 3
months, 11s.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji, New
Hebrides and other places within the British
Empire, 2d. per copy. United Kingdom via France
or America, 2d. per copy. To all other places, 4d.
CENTRALISATION RUN MAD.
Delegates to the New Education Fellowship con-
ferences have been saying all sorts of unflattering
things about our Australian brands of State education.
Curricula, homework, examinations, intermediate cer-
tificates, inspectors and erection of schools on pocket-
handkerchief blocks have been ridiculed or roundly
condemned, and a gentleman from Scotland flatly
declared that teachers “are only half-trained.” Per-
haps some of these visitors reached their damaging
conclusions after too little inquiry. No doubt there
is something to be said for the defence, but surpris-
ingly little has been said.
The gentleman from Scotland is Dr. Boyd, of
Glasgow University. Coming from a country where
education has been distinguished for centuries by a
rugged national spirit, and has been backed by the
national purse, though administration has been decen-
tralised, he was astonished to find it under complete
Big-City direction in Australia.
In Scotland each county controls its own educational
department, and as a consequence there is a greater
interest in education matters and greater opportunities
for the development of new ideas and systems. Central-
ised control in Australian States retards the develop-
ment of education on progressive lines. Control by
a few education Mussolinis will have to be abandoned
if real progress is to be made.
Not only in the field of education is there exces-
sive centralisation in this country. It exists in prac-
tically every domain in which State Governments
operate or are permitted to meddle, and it takes a
hundred irritating forms. In recent weeks we have
seen a fine people occupying one of the finest parts
of Australia denied the right to have goods carried
across the border by road, chiefly to and from Mel-
bourne, because a Melbourne board issued a veto ;
and if an effort were made to substitute freight-
carrying ’planes they would be vetoed too. And
development of or trade with natural ports, such
as Albany and Port Stephens, is stifled because the
Big City must get all the business. So population
accumulates in the coastal cities—five already contain
half the mainland people—to be maintained somehow
• in bad times and defended somehow in time of war,
while country towns and natural ports decay.
In unified South Africa harbors are under national
control, and harbor improvements are undertaken as
part of national policy. One result is that £10,000,000
is being spent on Cape Town harbor to render it
“capable of giving shelter to the greatest ship afloat,
and of accommodating the whole British Navy.” In
Australia the national Government is an outsider
where State ports and harbors are concerned—so much
of an outsider that it was recently a question
whether it would get permission to use a Sydney bay
for the accommodation of the flying boats which are
to carry his Majesty’s mails, and if necessary take
a hand in the defence of his Majesty’s subjects.' A
few local owners of flats, speedboats, golf outfits and
the like, supported by some Big-City Ministers,
objected.
There are six Big-City Parliaments and Govern-
ments, all taxing excessively (taxing, in some cases,
money paid in taxes) through “taxation Mussolinis”
in Big-City offices. Prodigious sums are required to
maintain them in the state to which they have accus-
tomed themselves, and their six Government Houses
and staffs, and the hordes of civil servants employed
to minister to their grandeur, to their passion for
passing bills and their insatiable thirst for meddling
in all manner of affairs. Even so, the vast tax-revenue
doesn’t nearly suffice for what they think they ought
to spend. So we find that N. S. Wales alone has
increased its public debt by £88,000,000 in eight years,
and that “net losses on the public debts of the States
in the past financial year were £17,718,000” —according
to the Grants Commission, that was the difference
between earnings of loan works and interest and
sinking fund payments, plus exchange.
In N. S. Wales the public debt is growing faster
than ever, for the Big-City Government has discovered
a way of getting round the Loan Council by borrow-
ing through concerns like the Sydney Water Board
and the Sydney Transport Board. Resumption of
London borrowing was condemned by all reputable
financial authorities in Australia and Britain, but
this Government succeeded in borrowing £2,000,000 in
London for the Water Board, in the process
making a failure of the last Commonwealth conver-
sion loan. And though N.S.W. local bodies have, on
the whole, managed their affairs ably—many habitually
make revenue and expenditure meet, which is more
than any Big-City Government ever does their
solvency is threatened because the Big-City Govern-
ment is encouraging, even imploring, them to borrow.
On this subject very wise remarks were made by G.
H. Bowhay, president of the N.S.W. Shires Associa-
tion, at its annual conference:
Shire and municipal councils all over the State have
been approached by the Government with offers
of a subsidy to encourage them to borrow. In many
cases they accept. If the principle of increasing the
local-government debt to supplement the works policy
of the State is continued the councils will become so
heavily involved that they will not be able to carry on.
Borrowing does not avoid taxation; it merely postpones
it. And the councils have but one form of taxation—
the land.
In other words, a Government which has made
a mess of its own finances is enticing solvent councils
to wreck theirs. If there is one thing that Big-City
Administrations should not meddle in it is local-
government policy, but here we see the greediest and
most grandiose of the Big-City Administrations not
only meddling in local-government policy but achiev-
ing a financial domination fraught with peril to the
whole structure of local government.
Australia cannot do without local government, but
it could do without State Governments, and would
indeed be far better without them. In the abolition
of State Parliaments and Governments and the
setting up of provincial assemblies or councils lies its
only hope of ridding itself of the twin plagues of
overgovernment and overtaxation. Of course aboli-
tion would have to be gradual; but a good start
could be made by transferring control of education,
transport and income taxation to the Commonwealth,
and a nation-minded Commonwealth Government
would be in a position to force such a transfer. A
great many Australians are thinking along these lines.
None of the existing parties is thinking with them,
because none is really representative of the average
Australian ; and a group of earnest one-Parliament
men in good standing would get their votes.
Grow More Wool!
The 1937-38 wool season will open on August 30 with
the brightest prospects for years. The only feature
about which some sheepmen have to complain is that
a dry season has left them with light clips. But on
the whole there will be 2y p.c. more wool to sell —
probably a bit over 3,000,000 bales altogether—and
more buyers about.
The indications are that Britain will buy one-third
of the 3,000,000-odd bales, Japan one-sixth. The
trend in U.S.A. is shown by the fact that from January
to May this year Uncle Sam imported 177,000,0001 b.;
for the whole of 1935 only 199,900,0001 b. Con-
tinental countries may also increase their purchases,
since wool is a staple of defence programmes.
Stocks of raw wool in the U.K. at the end of
the half-year were the lowest since 1933. Tops stocks
are lower in most large manufacturing countries, and
Bradford prices—merino 70’s, 40d.; 64’s, 38d. ; 58’s,
32d. —are as high and as firm as they ever have been
at this time of year. Last year at the same period
70’s were 33yd., coarser varieties lower in proportion,
so that crossbred tops in the Corriedale-Polwarth
range are now worth almost as much as fine merinos
fetched in August, 1936.
It is doubted in no quarter that prices will
be high, especially if U.S.A. operates freely. Also, that
if another 500,000 bales of medium to very fine wools
were available, they would be sold at good rates. In
spite of the invention of artificial fibres there is no
indication that demand for wool will slacken. The
world now produces—and uses —round 3,670,000,0001 b.
a year, compared with an average of 3,286,600,0001 b.
during the five years before the war. In pre-war years
Australia’s quota was 22.6 p.c. of the world output;
it is now 27.6 p.c. Prices have increased so much that
the £26,500,000 sterling wool cheque of the average
pre-war year has become £55,000,000 to £66,000,000
Australian in a normal year.
But the Commonwealth to-day has, on a generous
estimate, only 16,000,000 more sheep than in 1890.
The N. S. Wales sheep population is now almost
exactly what it was 47 years ago. Queensland in 1914
had 5,000,000 more sheep than in 1937. That State’s
sheep history is typical of the see-saw due to drought
—losses through fly are now taken as a matter of
course. In 1895 Queensland had 19,900,000 sheep ;
by 1900 the number was down to 10,000,000 ; by 1910
it was 20,000,000 ; in 1914, 23,000,000. Thirteen years
later it was 16,000,000; it rose to 22,000,000 and
stayed above 20,000,000 till 1934.
Then there was another drought. Almost
4,000,000 sheep left Queensland for greener pastures.
The Queensland wool yield in 1933-34 was only
170,000,0001 b.; the average for the previous four years
had been 183,000,0001 b. No large-scale attempt is
made to guard against such losses, in Queensland or
in any other State.
Growers are not altogether to blame. A com-
mittee that inquired into the wool industry in 1931,
a favorable season, found that cost of production on
668 properties in all States averaged 9yd. per pound,
plus a probable 4yd. per pound in interest, allowed
for at 5 p.c. And “no allowance was made for
management or risk of investment.”
Though there have been reductions in selling
charges, and small cuts here and there in freight-rates
and land taxes, there is still not much margin, even
in a sixteen-penny seasonal price, for woolgrowers to
provide for more than routine replacements and insure
against years when the price may not be sixteen pence.
The seven sets of taxgatherers are taking sheep-money
that is needed for stocking and restocking.
Governments might consider the position from
the viewpoint that wool provides nearly half the
value of annual exports and yields £500,000 of
annual income for every 1,000,000 sheep shorn.
The chances are that if Australia had 200,000,000 sheep
the wool from them all could be sold. Were more
good Australian fleeces available more poor foreign
fleeces would be pushed out of the world market.
Everybody's Aunt Sally.
If correctly reported it is risky these days to take
daily newspapers at face value Mr. Curtin has
fathered the suggestion that national broadcasting
should be brought under direct political control. That
is to say, another Ministerial billet should be made,
another Government department set up, with more
than an even chance of some such rich mind as that of
Mr. Paterson or of Mr. Parkhill dictating the enter-
tainment considered fit and proper for radio listeners.
Mr. Curtin could argue very ably that nothing
of the kind was his intention; but that, and the
natural results of it, is what would happen. Anyone
has only to think of the performances of the two
Ministers named to get a foretaste of Australian
broadcasting under Mr. Curtin’s proposed change.
Mr. Paterson would be considered by some of the
A.B.C.’s critics—though scarcely by the majority—to
be one eminently qualified for the post of Minister
for Broadcasting by his treatment of Mrs. Freer. As
for Mr. Parkhill these gentlemen are mentioned
merely as examples—having had his sixpenny shy at
everybody’s Aunt Sally, Mr. Curtin found it necessary
to remark on the condition into which political con-
trol, by Mr. Parkhill and a string of others, has
brought Australia’s defence:
the inadequacy of our air force, the absurd ineffi-
ciency of our transportation system, and our backward-
ness in munition services. We have fiddled about with
naval activities, leaving us with a naval force greatly
inferior to that which might be thrust against us.
Beside defence broadcasting is a piffling matter.
The Defence portfolio should be one of the two or
three most important at the disposal of a Govern-
ment. It is here given to Mr. Parkhill; and Mr.
Curtin has only mildly stated the mess made of it by
the political control of Mr. Parkhill and some of his
recent predecessors. The only fault that can be found
with Mr. Curtin’s criticism of the defence position is
that it was his own party’s political control which
started our defences on their slide into muddle. To-
day Australian defence is hardly anything more than
a vague topic for politicians to talk about; an easy
means of ensuring publicity and limelight. It will,
of course, be an issue at the Federal elections —about
as shameful a use as could be made of anything that
should be of first national importance.
But at worst defence only provides a topic out
of which politicians can always easily secure cheap
advertisement. Broadcasting provides that much now ;
under political control it would provide the means
as well. If for no other reason than this, national
broadcasting should be kept as far away from political
control as it can be got.
Significantly, Mr. Curtin’s suggestion, along with
the latest splurge of criticism launched at the A.8.C.,
is an outcome of the Commission’s recent sensible
ban on publicity-seeking politicians until the Com-
monwealth elections are over. This is one of the best
things the Commission has ever done, and the case
made out by the Commission’s spokesman, Mr. Moses,
is unanswerable. The ban is being enforced on poli-
ticians of all parties speaking on any topic whatever.
Except for one or two addresses that were arranged
several months ago and a fair allotment of time
for the policy speeches of party leaders, national
stations will have no use for politicians until
after election day. The Commission rightly holds that
from now till then any broadcasting politician would
be getting political publicity even though he did not
talk on politics at all. As well aware of the truth of
this as the Commission is, politicians of all parties
have lately flooded the A.B.C.’s headquarters with
requests for time to talk on all manner of apparently
innocuous topics. The Commission has done the only
thing it sensibly could do —ruled the lot of them out.
Without any question, listeners everywhere are
grateful to the Commission. Politicians, of course, are
incensed ; and there is nobody so adept at finding
dignity to stand on as a riled politician. Hence the
latest appearance of the A.B.C. in its frequently
enforced role of everybody’s Aunt Sally, now having
“dictatorship” and suchlike expletives shied at it.
Having the part of trying to please everybody, the
Commission has an impossible job to begin with.
Nothing could be easier than making out an apparently
effective criticism of how far short it falls of any given
listener’s ideals. But most who have moderate expec-
tations would probably admit that, on the whole,
it manages rather well. Apart from quality of enter-
tainment, the chain of linking stations is growing
up to make the services equally good in all parts of
the country. In a land as outspread as Australia
that is an important achievement.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
No Cool Strike.
In spite of the threats of Reds, few people believed
that there would be another general strike in the
N.S.W. coalmining industry. Miners’ Federation
finance has never really recovered from the 1929
disaster, which “cost us nearly a million for relief,”
and stories of the preparations made for another
prolonged period of idleness were taken with a liberal
helping of salt. But most people are glad that a
settlement has been arrived at, even though it means
that private concerns and the insolvent Railway
Departments which eat so heavily into State taxes
will have to pay more for coal.
The settlement looks a very good one for the
men. Contract workers are to get a 10 p.c. increase,
“offhand” laborers and youths another 5 p.c. In the
case of northern miners the principle of a minimum
wage has been accepted for the first time, the
minimum in the northern district being 21s. 6d. a
day, in the southern district 19s. 9d., and in the
western district 225. 3d.
The agreement is for two years, and although
there may be some local opposition it is not expected
to be serious. One satisfactory result of the settle-
ment may be a truce to the senseless union-boss and
Labor-politician feud against the Broken Hill Prop.,
which dealt with the men’s claims in a generous spirit.
Good democrats are never easy in their minds
about the position of coalminers. Periodically the
thought arises “Why should these men, and these
men only, have to do this dirty and dangerous job
all their working lives? Why shouldn’t all men have
a hand in it at some of the time?” This was an idea
of H. G. Wells in his ardent youth. It should not be
beyond Australian democracy to devise some such plan
when it is freed from fears of foreign war and civil
commotion and has leisure to think and act.
These Stay-in Strikes.
Observers of the American scene report a great
reaction against the second Roosevelt. No doubt it
had to come, for it is the way of men to leap on their
idols, especially when too much is expected of them.
And Mr. Roosevelt, although at this distance he still
looks an attractive figure, has disappointed idealists
by trying to pack the Supreme Court Bench, financial
reformers by accumulating terrific debts and deficits,
and laboring men by failing to find work for 10,000,000
of them, notwithstanding his New Deal and his 40-
hour week.
But nothing has done more to weaken the Presi-
dent’s hold on the nation than his strange and long-
continued acquiescence in stay-in strikes. The
Americans are a shrewd people, and they felt that
this was taking Revolution by the hand.
Stay-in strikes have arrived in Australia. A rash
of them has broken out in gasworks, and our Govern-
ments will have to decide what they are going to do
about them, especially when, as in the Melbourne
instance, the stay-in strike amounts to a defiance of
industrial law as delivered in a Commonwealth Arbi-
tration Court award.
If it is conceded that dissatisfied employees may
legitimately enter upon business premises and stay
as long as they please, what limits can be set to such
proceedings? If trespass on business premises is
permissible, why not trespass on private premises? And
if the trespassers are to be the sole judges of how
long they should stay, why should they ever leave?
Infantile Paralysis.
Medical science doesn’t know a great deal about the
whys and wherefores of infantile paralysis. Like the
common cold, it just happens. The effects are much
more serious, but periodical outbreaks have occurred
in Australia without causing any great alarm. How-
ever, probably as a result of all the war-scaremonger-
ing, people are a prey to alarms nowadays, and
Melbourne may remain that way until its present
outbreak has run its course.
Since the end of June, when the first case was
reported, to the end of the second week of August
there were 91 cases, with eight deaths. In a city of
approximately a million people, that isn’t a startling
total for six weeks.
, As soon as a child suspect is found to be infected
its school is closed. Empty schools now number
about 70 ; they normally teach some 40,000 children,
now dispersed to their homes.
An emergency medical consultative council has
been set up. It “believes the simultaneous closing of
all schools would be a grave mistake ; it cannot view
with approval either the crowding into their homes of
children in industrial areas over a long period or, on
the other hand, the greatly increased dispersal of
children over metropolitan and rural districts.” That
is, schools so far free from known contact with the
disease are to remain open, but immediately a case is
reported the unfortunate’s schoolfellows, who might
reasonably enough be regarded with more suspicion
than pupils from a “clean” school, are allowed to
spread. Education Department policy is solely guided
by the advice of the council.
Maoriland had an outbreak in the early part of
the year. The authorities closed all schools in centres
which reported infection. In the case of Dunedin,
where the epidemic began and was most prevalent,
they refused to allow children to travel to other parts.
There were 819 cases to the end of June; the largest
total in any one month was not recorded until the
fifth month of the epidemic.
N. S. Wales had 247 cases, with 12 deaths, in
1934-35; 463 cases, with 63 deaths, in 1931-32. Vic-
toria itself had 164 cases (32 deaths) in 1928, 134 (17
deaths) in 1929, and 276 (16 deaths) in 1931. In both
States during all the years mentioned people scarcely
knew there was infantile paralysis in the community.
No Foreign Capitol Needed.
Australian air travel has reached a stage at which
it has become big business, and outsiders are begin-
ning to look on it with longing eyes. There has been
talk of a Dutch service from Europe, but, much as
Australians like the Dutch and admire their achieve-
ments in commercial aviation, it should not be allowed
except on the terms on which foreign aircraft enter
England. They use London airports but have no
internal English services.
There are, however, other ways by which foreign
interests can enter the Commonwealth. Reports that
Pan-American Airways, which has almost a long-
distance monopoly in the two Americas, contemplates
entering the Australian trade are denied, but a Mr.
Seth Terry, of Denver, says he is planning to run an
inter-capital Australian service against the existing
lines, with Douglas and Lockheed Electra ’planes. He
declares he has backing ($4,000,000 to $5,000,000), and
adds that the equipment of the Australian lines is not
worth buying. *
This is ridiculous, for Australian lines are being
operated mainly with the latest U.S.A. machines.
There are Stinsons, Douglases and Lockheed Electras
on inter-capital runs, making times comparable with
those of inter-city American services. The capital
behind Australian companies was provided in part by
British shipping cos.; the initiative came from Aus-
tralians like the Robinsons, who pioneered motor
transport in country districts and turned their atten-
tion to air transport after the depression.
But neither foreign machines nor foreign capital
are needed. British manufacturers could turn out
passenger and mail aeroplanes thoroughly suitable for
Australian conditions in British and Australian fac-
tories. It is vitally important that all our air equip-
ment should be Australian or British, since every
aerial unit is necessarily a reserve defence unit. In
war-time passenger ’planes would become troop-
carriers ; all aerodromes would immediately go under
military control. In those circumstances it would be
unthinkable that replacements of engines and general
flying gear would have to come from a foreign
country, no matter how friendly.
Financial Facts and Railway Fictions.
The bit in the “Commonwealth Transport and Com-
munication Bulletin” placing the losses on Australian
Government railways for the year to June 30, 1936,
at £1,684,300 is about as reliable as a Luna Park
mirror.
The statistician himself had his doubts. One
footnote exciting immediate curiosity says that the
1936 figures shown for N.S.W., Victoria and S. Aus-
tralia do not include “exchange, etc., on interest paid
in London.” Other omissions are interest on
£28,000,000 of capital expenditure “written off” in
Queensland, and depreciation. And grants of tax-
money (£BOO,OOO in N. S. Wales alone) are included
as railway receipts.
Reviewing the N.S.W. accounts, the State Auditor-
General commented bluntly that “operating expenses
are understated to the extent that insufficient provision
is made for depreciation.” The Victorian department
complained naively that “the amount provided to
meet current depreciation is inadequate by at least
£450,000.” According to men who should know, an
allowance of 2 p.c. for depreciation and obsolescence
would be rather low. So, with capital outlay on
Government railways standing at £338,000,000, a
businessman would add to the annual railway loss
another £6,750,000 at least.
Between 1930 and 1936 salary and wages bills
dropped £6,000,000. Staff retrenchments and cuts
under the Financial Emergency Act did the trick.
The recent Arbitration Court wage decision and
extension of the 44-hour week will eliminate portion
of this £6,000,000 “saving.” And the grant of addi-
tional pay in the coalmining industry will substan-
tially increase the general fuel bill.
It is problematical whether this increasing expen-
diture can be offset by revenue rises. Even practical
railwaymen admit that the trend of present-day busi-
ness is away from railways. Freight-rate and fare
increases would merely accentuate the drift, as well as
try still further the temper of a public most unlikely
to suffer in patience any more Government inter-
ference with other methods of transport.
Australians footing the bill are entitled to know
the dismal truth about Government railway finance.
It is no credit to the politicians that departments should
be allowed to serve up academic fiction rather than
business facts.
" Semi-judicial Powers."
The Larrakia’s luck must have changed. She has
captured another lugger in North Australian waters
and escorted her to Darwin.
While she was limping in, significant facts became
known. First, one of the luggers previously captured
is the property or part-property of Mitsuis, a concern
of immense influence in Japan. Second, Japanese
pearlers are commissioning a patrol-boat such as is
used in Japanese coastguard services: a fast 80-footer
carrying wireless. She is to patrol the fleets working
off Australian shell-beds “to see that they observe
Australian law,” and the commander will have “semi-
judicial powers.”
The spokesman for the fleets at Palau, in Japanese
mandated territory, says his countrymen are gravely
concerned about the events off Arnhem Land and fear
that they have brought discredit on the pearlers. They
are taking this new step in the interests of amicable
relations with Australia.
It would be even more in the interests of amicable
relations if the Department of the Interior stoppcj
muddling and showed itself capable of enforcing Aus-
tralian law and preserving the integrity of Australian
territory. Mutual respect is the main ingredient in
international friendships.
"Paying Its Way."
What N.S.W. Premier Stevens calls “favorable trends”
have, he says, “enabled” his “Government to embark
on the most enterprising policy the State has yet had.”
And, of course, if supplies hold out, on the most
hilarious loan drunk—£ls,ooo,ooo for the Water Board,
£20,000,000 for “co-ordination of electricity develop-
ment” and many more millions, not yet calculated, for
“transportation and other national revenue-producing
and developmental assets.” There are doubters and
carpers, but they may be dismissed.
Too many of the people who have criticised the
public debt overlook the fact that the State is creating
from revenue a sinking fund that will automatically write
off the debt in 50 years.
Fifty years! Eight years’ N.S.W. contributions to the
national sinking fund (1928-36) totalled £8,078,660.
During the same period the N.S.W. public debt soared
from £258,474,800 to £346,576,200. Mr. Stevens does
not mention this, though the Auditor-General does ;
but Mr. Stevens is keen on mentioning that “a big
job has to be done, and fear of increasing the public
debt has to be dissipated.” Hence this assertion:
An ever-increasing portion of the State debt is paying
its way in actual cash receipts, and this imposes no
strain on the Budget.
Why didn’t Mr. Stevens tell the Commonwealth
Grants Commission all about the “ever-increasing
portion of the public debt” that is “paying its way in
actual cash receipts”? Lacking precise and detailed
information, the Grants Commission has reported that,
for 1936-37 year, N.S.W. public-debt charges exceeded
public receipts by £5,586,000 (£2 2s. Id. per head).
In other words, £5,586,000 was lost on that very public
debt of which “an ever-increasing portion” is asserted
by Mr. Stevens to be “paying its way in actual cash
receipts.”
God Help the Boys !
For something over a month Australia has had to
suffer a dearth of prophets of calamity. These con-
tributors to the lighter side of life began the year
well, continuing, with hearty prognostications of
imminent war, their sustained efforts over the
last dozen years to shake the long-standing pre-
eminence of Jeremiah. Fears that they had suddenly
gone out of business have now been laid to rest.
In Sydney last week Mr. Laurin Zilliacus, head-
master of the Experimental School at Helsingfors,
Finland, stepped into the breach. Coming to Aus-
tralia for the New Education Conference, he had left
a Finland that was in “deadly fear of being crushed”
between Russia and Germany. He flew over Holland
and Belgium, “which were rearming desperately.”
Denmark, which he also “flew over,” was not rearm-
ing, and this served Mr. Zilliacus even better:
“Denmark was not rearming, only because it knew
armament would be useless.”
More grist to Mr. Zilliacus’s mill was passengers
having to give up their cameras over Germany (he
should have gone to Japan any time in the last 40
years), the people of France “sitting on a volcano”
(they have been, according to the best Jeremiahs, for
18 years), boats running the blockade to Spain, and
the U.S.A.’s industrial troubles.
And Australia? This country, it seems, is only
“superficially stable and at peace.” Mr. Zilliacus had
been here only a few days, yet already he “had seen
in the newspapers accounts of industrial trouble,
which, with half a dozen words altered, might have
applied to America, or Britain, or Finland.” He had
attended a service at St. Andrew’s and “found there
a body of men in military uniform.”
That shows what a fool’s paradise we are uphold-
ing here! The “body of men in military uniform”
was an ordinary artillery church parade ; the “indus-
trial trouble” was a series of small local stoppages on
the coalfields, admittedly an outcome of general pros-
perity and the miners’ desire to have a bigger share
in it.
If reports of this last might, with “half a dozen
words altered,” be applied to overseas places the
troubles of those places must have been grossly
exaggerated. In finding food for his gloom in such
piffling matters as he has found it in here, Mr. Zil-
liacus outdoes even local Jeremiahs. Certainly Mr.
Zilliacus does not go wholeheartedly into the war-
prophecy business: his forecasts are vague. But he
is a wet blanket of the first order.
It might be no bad notion if Mr. Zilliacus and the
other educationists with whom he is conferring got
down to considering a line of education that would help
to remove the state of mind engendered by the one
common trouble from which the world is suffering—
a “hangover” from the 1914-18 war. Failing some-
thing of the kind, it will be God help the boys! It
will be God help them, anyway, if they, too, come to
suffering fits of the jitters at the spectacle of a few
volunteer soldiers attending a church parade. There
is better ground for gloomy forebodings in a policeman
on his beat.


Society
“Oxmead”: Tas. Premier Ogilvie, re-
turning from his Coronation jaunt:
In Paris I saw a crowd of schoolgirls,
about 10 years old, file out of church and
decorously sit down at tables. Do you
know what they drank? Beer, light, harm-
less stuff, better for them than the colored
fizz our own children drink....ln Europe
they treat it as a beverage, and I never
saw a single person under the influence
of liquor.
It is a point worth the attention of some
of our social reformers. In my own six
years at an English public school beer
was always served at dinner as a “bever-
age”—and won little favor unless there
was lemonade to go with it. At Oxford
you could have as much as you wanted,
but few went beyond a glass. At the
Temple two bottles of wine were
assigned to every four barristers-in-the-
making. And more than half of it went
back to the caterers.
* * * *
“Tripod”: Queensland’s early-day im-
migrants from Germany were a sturdy
stock, and they brought with them not
only their household gods but most of their
national characteristics. Some of the latter
persist to the present day, including a
liking for the teapot as a safe deposit and
a distrust of banks and paper currency.
The bulk of the gold coin bought to-day
in Brisbane comes from the Marburg
and other German districts, and is prov-
ing an education to some of the banking
wallahs who have forgotten—or never
knew—that £lO and £2O gold coins
existed.
* * * #
“241”: What I like particularly about
Long Bay is the church service, with a
manslayer who has become very religious
handing out the prayer-books. It is a
break in the monotony for prisoners ;
that is why many old hands put them-
selves down as R.Cs. and so score on
longer and more frequent breaks. Ser-
vice is a chance for whispered conver-
sation ; I heard a voice rise over the
anthem with “I’m going to Parramatta.”
The man next to me whispered a word of
advice to me to take a couple of leaves
from the back of my prayer-book. “They
make beaut, cigarette papers,” he said.
It drew my attention to the fact that
there were already a number of pages
missing.
* * * *
“Adelaide”: A charge of using inde-
cent language in a public place took a
new turn in the Port Adelaide Juvenile
Court. The youth said he was only read-
ing some poetry to the other fellows —
name of poet not stated. His love of
literature was adjudged worth £1 and
costs.
H* 4 s H 5
“Hanko”: When one of the deviation
gang navvies gave out that he was about
to commit matrimony we determined to
give him a sort of kitchen tea, and next
payday we all put in two bob for beer
just to make the thing go, leaving the
matter of presents in abeyance. How-
ever, the gang (there were 35 of us) all
trailed along with an offering. The
Benedict-to-be got 34 dozen clothespegs
and one rolling-pin, and but one among
us was disgruntled with the fine collec-
tion. “Tch, tch, tch,” he clucked, “thrup-
pence th’ dozen. Hoots! Why didn’t
Ah thunk o’ yon pegs?” He had
brought the dough-flattener.
* * * *
“Old Bond-street”: I had to do a
special for a Melbourne weekly on the
actual cost of a first-class suit of clothes
(B. 11/8/’37), starting with the wool on
the sheep’s back. One of my informants
was the then secretary of the Clothing
Trades Union, who told me that in the
most expensive “wholly hand-made” suits
only a small portion was not machined.
He said the most difficult bit of work
on a suit was the stitching of the edges
of the lapels. In the case of a super-
costly suit this was done by hand and
was a job for highly-skilled male work-
men only. He pointed out that, whereas
in an ordinary suit the join can be seen
if looked for, in a well-done hand job
it is invisible and the true test of a
hand-made garment.
* * * *
“D.E.”: Granny “Herald,” of Hunter-
street, Sydney, is a pitifully small-minded
old girl. Being invincibly opposed to
wasting a cablegram, she had to report
that H. G. Wells, in conversation with an
Australian Associated Press man, had
“ Perhaps , madam , you'd find it easier if you allowed me to put one of those on your shoulder.”
praised “Australia’s valuable contribution
to the world’s culture in the. shape of
cartoons, and mentioned Phil May and
David Low,” but she couldn’t help being
superior about it, also nasty. So she ran
in this footnote:
Phil May was an Englishman, though he
worked in Sydney in 1886-88. David Low
was born in New Zealand. He worked in
Sydney as a cartoonist from 1911 to 1919.
L was not in “Granny’s” nature to men-
tion that they worked on The Bulletin ;
but I’d wager my week’s salary against
all the wrong horses that the old crone
has backed these last two years that Wells
mentioned it. He was familiar, not only
with the May and Low drawings for
The Bulletin, but with James Edmond’s
writings for it, and his admiration for
them was equally high.
* * * *
“Kwakprak”: Our flapper press has
been going all gooey over the latest sur-
gical miracle of a post-mortem Caesarean
operation in the U.S.A., which resulted
in the delivery of a live girl baby from
the body of a just-dead mother. Similar
miracles have been performed for many
centuries. There is, in a London museum,
a record taken from the mummy-case of
an Egyptian woman, describing the same
operation, with the same result, nearly
4000 years ago. Medical history is dotted
with such miracles from the earliest
times ; many have been recorded in Aus-
tralia—one in Sydney in 1824. Last year,
a resourceful young surgeon in Edin-
burgh added one more to the Scottish
population by operating on an expectant
mother brought into hospital a few
minutes after she had been killed in a
motor accident, and the ungrateful father
sued him for having omitted to secure
his consent beforehand. It is perfectly
simple, barring the legal aspects.
* * * *
“Tact”: Having read all the queer
names of booze emporiums so far
entered, I feel I can safely weigh in with
the winner—that of a former wine
establishment on the road between War-
racknabeal and Dimboola (Vic.) —the
Blue Ribbon!
Hi * * *
“Coot”: Ernest Renault, of South
Launceston, recently regained what he
styles a. “world’s in
eating. A Melbournite claimed the
championship, having devoured 43 in
half an hour. Before starting after the
record Renault tested his eating capacity
with German sausage, condensed milk
and a few other odds and ends. Then
he went to Work in earnest on the
bananas, and in half an hour had sur-
rounded 44. He was still going strong
when he was told that he had outed the
presumptuous contender.
* * * *
“Dick Tafone”: Even in these days of
war gloom abroad and political fore-
bodings at home concerning what the
other lot will do to us if we don’t vote
the proper ticket, one optimist is left in
Australia. Whilst doing an unemployed
tramp in N.S.W. back country he learned
that he had won a big lottery prize. With
magnificent confidence, he telephoned
Sydney that he was coming along with a
roll of notes in each hand, first to break
the bookies and then to price a bullock
wagon at Wagga and go timber-carting.
There seems to be a splendid opportunity
for a kind-hearted Ring to leave him the
price of a wagon and team, if only as
bait for other bush optimists; but, alas!
McShortodds is obliged, like the rest of
us non-optimists, to regard business as
peesiness, and the prospects of owning
.that wagon seem poor.
* * * *
“Centurion”: What must be the record
instance of forgetfulness is recounted in
the Duke of Portland’s reminiscences. At
an annual dinner of the Coldstreams the
oldest officer present was the then Earl
of Stradbroke, who had taken part, many
years before, in the short and bloody
Waterloo campaign. The old gentleman
explained that he had been wounded at
an engagement called Quatre Bras and
hence was unable to take part in a battle
a couple of days later, the name of which
he could not, for the life of him,
remember.
* ■ * * *
“Spare Corp”: That certainly was a
ridiculous claim of the chap who had
himself cabled as “the last Digger to
return to Australia.” Apart from others
I have seen mentioned in this regard, two
Diggers established a motor-train service
between Jerusalem and Bagdad ; one of
this pair came home, and then only on
holiday. A Digger still looks after th e
war graves (including the British) on
Gallipoli. Diggers run guide services
about the war areas in France, and others
are married and settled in various busi-
nesses in France and Belgium. Three
ex-Diggers are sheep-farming in Algeria,
where they settled at the express invita-
tion of the French Government (it invited
50); and there are Diggers in most parts
of Britain —one, who married a land-
lady’s daughter, still runs a pub near
Weymouth. There are Diggers who
went to India with British army com-
missions ; one who is a scientist in a
Canadian museum, and two at least —
ex-actors —who never got farther than
Hollywood, having applied for repatria-
tion via America. The all-over-the-world
jobs ex-Diggers have taken would make
an amazing record.
* * *
“Joseph”: Revived interest in philately
reminds me of an uncle who died a
couple of years ago. For 40 years the old
man had had continuous business trans-
actions with Maoriland, and several
drawers in his desk were full of stamps
of all values and issues which he had
clipped from letters and parcels. The
sale of these realised a large and welcome
addition to the amount available for dis-
tribution among his children.
* * * *
“Fiona”: Police investigating a recent
case found they had to add to those
who don’t tell a lady who conducts a
confidential correspondence bureau.
When asked if she had written a certain
letter to a certain person on a certain date
the lady declined to say if she had or
hadn’t. Other people, she maintained,
such as doctors and clergy, weren’t re-
quired to divulge information that would
constitute a breach of professional con-
duct, so why should she be asked to
endanger her business by doing so? The
law looked thoughtful and retired to
meditate on the matter, with, so far, no
appreciable result.
* , * * *
“Der Jong”: I don’t know about
horseflesh (B. 11/8/’37) being sweet, but
I’ll back mare’s milk as topping the
poll in this particular. After the
occupation of Bloemfontein, the British
Army in South Africa went on half
rations, Roberts having sacrificed his
transport to De Wet to make sure of
cornering Cronje. Issue was con-
fined to tinned meat, biscuit and tea,
sugar going off the list early. With my
starving mates I tried to fill the spaces
with porridge made of Kaffir corn, which
was to be gathered in the abandoned
fields. Ground in hand coffee mills
looted from deserted farms, this made an
Unpalatable, black mess at which, with
no milk or sugar to help it down, even
hungry men boggled. A cow-cocky in
our troop had a brainwave. We were
continually yarding mobs of mares run-
ning about the veld whose foals had
died. Our cow friend noticed one day
that their udders were heavy with milk,
and took action accordingly. After that
we had milk and sugar combined for the
trouble of yarding up a few wandering
mares to get it.
THE P. AND O.
“The first mail contract between the British
Government and the P. and O. Company was entered
into on August 22, 1837.’’
The daylight dawns and the twilight dies,
And a hundred years go by;
But ever the flag of the P. and O.
Is clean against the sky.
The seas are blue and the seas are grey
And the seas are grimly green;
But the pride of Ocean in all her moods
Is the mercantile marine.
The wind blows soft, the wind blows loud,
And however the wind may blow,
The joy of the wind in all its moods
Are the ships of the P. and O.
The stars are bright or the stars are dim,
But ever they show the way
Out where the flying-fishes swim,
Down where the dolphins play.
Long are the roads the steamers take,
Lonely the roads they go;
With furrows of foam laid wide in the wake
Of the ships of the P. and O.
By channels narrow and channels wide,
By the shallow ways and the deep,
Out with the moving tide they fide,
Their ancient trysts to keep.
QUEENSLAND.
L. M. D. O’NEIL.


TO .
“Against my country, right or wrong,”
That’s the tune you’re always singing,
Like the vile mosquito’s song,
Prelude to some nasty stinging.
What’s this fell disease you’re bringing?
Thank the Lord it isn’t catching!
While we hear the music ringing,
You only hear the needle scratching.
MAORILAND. ARNOLD WALL.
* * * *
“Typ”: A grazier and his wife drove
their two guests after dinner to see the
film “Lives of a Bengal Lancer” in the
near-by town. One of the guests had
been an airman in the war, the other
an artilleryman. When the hall was
well filled it was announced that the
wrong picture had been sent and a war
picture would be shown instead of the
one advertised. The guests, “fed up”
with war, especially fake war, both fell
fast asleep. Suddenly thq airman awoke
to see a German bomber almost on the
tail of a British ’plane and yelled, “Spin,
you damned fool —spin!” The artillery-
man, jolted from slumber by a most
familiar word, unconsciously brought
the house down with his roar of
“Heads!”
* * * *
“C.G.C.”: In a recent divorce case,
in which the successful husband sought
to obtain a warrant for the arrest of
the co-respondent for non-payment
of costs and damages, it was alleged that
the defaulter had absconded with the
petitioner’s late wife and the nine chil-
dren. I’m not sure what his Honor called
it, but some would call it rank ingrati-
tude.
* * *
“Ike Hollar”: Of course I know as
well as “Poissar” (B. 11/8/’37) that girls
of former days used to roister. The
difference is that, while formerly there
were scores of places where men did all
the roistering without the intrusion of
skirts to one where they were permitted,
to-day the invasion is general. The saw-
dust on the floor has been replaced by
carpets, flowers have been stuck in bowls
and it is all charged up on the bill. Still,
I thought that at least fhe two-up school
would be sacred until I accepted an invi-
tation to visit what I was assured was
one of the best-conducted joints in
.Sydney. There were half a dozen women
in the crowd as eager about setting bets
as any men. What I took to be an after-
math of their intrusion were a couple of
white-coated waiters who served drinks
on trays and passed round selling choco-
lates in their spare times. Chocolates!
* * * *
“Cateran”: If Sandy was a Highlander
(B. 11/8/’37), the mere fact that some
young show females wore kilts with silk
stockings was a trifle. What should have
made his blood boil was that the hem-
pies were wearing kilts at all. The gar-
“What’s the bally ideah of cutting the water oƒƒ?”
ment was never worn by Highland
women, and the spectacle of a female in
kilts is as appropriate as that of a buck
nigger in scanties.
* * *
E-V. : Yes, the birthrate has gone
to the bow-wows (B. 11/8/’37), in Syd-
ney at all events. Births for the first six
months of 1937 averaged 15.86 per 1000
and deaths 10.71 per 1000—natural in-
crease 5.15. Fifty years ago the Sydney
birthrate was 41.5 and the deathrate 19.5
—natural increase 22, or over six per
1000 more than the present birthrate.
In Sydney, as in Melbourne, Mr. Hughes
is getting no help from officialdom. It
has leaked out that police cadets are
forbidden to marry for three years,
although the husky young fellows are
paid 16s. 7d. a day from the beginning.
“0.W.W.”: Motoring from Pukekohe
to Auckland (M.L.) we were hailed by
a gesticulating lad. who looked to have
something important to impart. As soon
as we stopped he unburdened himself.
“Hey, mister,” he cried, “you wanter
watch out —dad’s hiding round the
bend!” Dad, we learned, was the local
traffic cop.
❖ * % sfc
“M.R.P.”: Anyway, hamburgers
haven’t caught on in Adelaide. A few
months ago two “Joes” started up in
business—one carries on still in Grenfell-
street; the other is selling peanuts.
Soustralians don’t take kindly to new-
fangled foods—waffles, which enjoyed a
run of popularity in the Eastern
States a year or so back, were
not a success here. Perhaps it’s
the strong Cornish leavening of
the city population that makes
if still staunch to its old pie
and pasty. Towards dark, when
the fruit-stall ponies are home-
ward bound, the piestalls trot
into King William-street and
take up their positions—one
outside the A.M.P., another
hugging the T. and G. and the
third gaining protection from
the courts. Even the popularity
of the milk-bars failed to drive
our two movable, soda-foun-
tains into the dealer’s yard.
One with its colored globes of
cordial is to be located outside
the Post Office ; the other, with
peanuts as a breadline, graces the Zoo
gates.
* * * *
“C.H.F.”: I suspect that there are
more people wanting boarders to-day
than young men who want to be
“boarded.” Anyhow, a young friend of
mine who desired to be looked after in
the domestic way received 150 replies.
One, after three pages describing her
home from home (and it sounded well),
finished up: “I have also two very
attractive daughters, both unattached.
One is aged 19, and the other is just 21.”
❖ * * *
“Shanghai”: Far be it from me to
disparage any of our early navigators,
but isn’t the name of Matthew Flinders
getting a bit overworked? The Brisbane
pilot vessel is the S.S. Matthew Flinders,
a Melbourne harbor dredge is also the
S.S. Matthew Flinders, and now (B.
4/ 8 / ”37) we are to have a railway train
called after him, too. Such immortality
tends to become confusing.
* * * *
“James W.”: Among other things
some black-and-white artists ought to
take a look at is the parachute. The
“back-pack” variety they usually favor
is a thing of the past. If the pull of
the rip-cord failed to pull out the toggles
the airman had no hope of reaching the
casing to wrench it open with his hands,
as has been done many times with the
“seat-pack” type. A Central European
Power lost two skilled military fliers and
a perfectly efficient aeroplane because of
a “back-pack” ’chute. The machine was
climbing from its ’drome, and at about
“ Don't encourage ’im , sir— make believe you ain’t seen 'im.”
200 ft. the observer in the rear cockpit
was suddenly hauled from his seat and
dashed against the tail planes. His para-
chute had sprung open and been instantly
extended by the slip-stream. The blow
on the tail of the machine killed the
observer, though his body floated to
earth on the parachute. The impact
smashed the elevators and the machine
crashed. The pilot had no time to use
his ’chute at that height and was killed.
Exit “back-pack” parachutes from every
air force of note.
«K
“Centurion” : Pouching that Balaclava
charge (B. 11/8/’37). Earlier in the day
the Turks had abandoned a
battery to the right of the fatal
valley, and Russians were try-
ing to remove it. It was this
battery which Raglan desired
Lucan, commander of the
cavalry, to charge and recover
the guns, a comparatively easy
job. Nolan was sent to Cardi-
gan and, according to that ec-
centric peer—Nolan was killed
and could not speak—pointed
out the Russian batteries at the
head of the valley. These were
flanked by other batteries on
the heights and supported by
masses of cavalry, so disaster
was evident from the start.
* * * *
“Bouragi”: General Crozier’s asser-
tion in a book that he shot a subaltern try-
ing to bolt under stress of a German attack
has started a controversy. Killing bolters
has been accepted as necessary in all
armies since the beginnings of organised
conflict. Officers of experience defend
Crozier. Others, whose experience or
reading must have been limited, say they
have never heard of such a thing. The
bitter necessity of the practice can be
doubted by no one who has seen how
one skedaddler whose nerve has gone
can start a whole body of men who
would otherwise have had no notion of
skedaddling.
* * * *
“Swagger”: “Perry’s” bishop’s slip of
the tongue (B. 4/8/’37) recalls that of
Sir Kingsley Wood, Britain’s counter-
part in office of Billy Hughes. He had
just finished a broadcast on pensions
when listeners heard a peeved voice end
up with “that b man!” After the
storm had subsided, it was found that
another studio had been accidentally
switched on, giving an indication of what
that “simply too wonderful” announcer
was like “off-stage.” Considering the
hours some announcers work, it is re-
markable that such slips are few and
far between. That’s one reason why
drover’s camps, etc., are never lifelike
over the air.
* * * *
“Numismatist”: Multi-sided trey bits
(B. 4/ 8 / ’37) are not a new idea. More
than 30 years ago proposals were made
to alter the shape of like-sized coins of
different value because of the difficulty
in picking one from the other in dark
corners, etc. Sixpences were to have
six sides, half-sovereigns a nick taken out
of the rim in two places; pennies to have
a raised coil of rope surrounding Bri-
tannia, florins an unmistakable raised
pattern, shillings a large “1” on them.
Ha’pennies were to be three-cornered.
* * * *
“Harold Hardupp”: A bloke who is
looking for a way to turn unemployment
into money has offered to take the con-
tract for keeping down the National
Park (near Sydney) deer without expense
to the Trust, which believes a massacre
is necessary, the deer having become a
pest.- His idea is to open a regular trade
in venison with butchers’ shops. As he
says, venison is good meat, but it is tough
unless treated as many Englishmen treat
their haunches of mutton —it needs to be
high before it is fit for the palate of
epicures. The idea of hanging it until it
reaches that state has never appealed to
Australians, and I doubt whether the
deer-killer would make a bean out of it.
? /
“Poissar”: The lady building-con-
tractor of Kogarah (N.S.W.) who belts
into stone-cutting and other hard yakka
brings to mind the wife of a blacksmith
in Barberton (S’Africa). A braw Scots
body, she was his regular striker, besides
doing her share of the shoeing and
general toil. She employed a native girl
for messages, household washing and
daily chores, but did the cooking herself,
made her own and two small daughters
clothes and marshalled the family to kirk
twice every Sunday.
* * * *
“Ped O’Gog”: Will “Kwakprak,” who
is interested in school hygiene (B.
28/7/’37), devise a school window that
will provide for proper light and ventila-
tion, the exclusion of dust and freedom
from draughts? In Vic. schools, gener-
ally with a north aspect, the common
type is that with upper and lower mov-
able sashes, and a blind roller at the
top. On a windy day, when the lower
sash is raised, dust and grit enter, papers
fly, and draughts play round the chil-
dren’s heads. At the same time the
window cannot be left op'en at the top
unless the blind is rolled up. So in
summer the alternatives are roasting with
a raised blind or suffocating with a
lowered one. In winter, too, the blinds
must often be kept down, as the low sun
shines directly in on the white paper
and dazzles the children. Now, if
“Kwakprak” is a man of ideas
{Continued on page 50.)


They ’re Smooth
and they do not
affect your throat
CRAVENA
ARE MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS
20 for 16 1
D 382
THE CC
TIPPED CIGARETTE OF THIS GEMER fljjj
POLITICAL POINTS
Any tax-cut is welcome, so Dunstan’s
announcement that 20 p.c. is to come
off unemployed-relief tax has been well
received. But ordinary income tax
should be reduced at the same time.
Property rates are double the rates on
what is called “earned income”—there is
a super tax of 6s. in the £lOO as well —
and press heavily on old people who can’t
“earn.” And because so many adven-
turous Victorians go to other States —
that sort of migration is at least 80 years
old —Victoria has a higher proportion of
thrifty old people than any other State.
After estimating, a £llO,OOO deficit for
1936-37, Dunstan’s Treasury raked in
an extra £131,000 through improving
business conditions. It gave Victoria a
surplus, the first since 1928-29.
Victoria received £137,000 from the
Commonwealth Government last year.
It doesn’t expect anything this year. Any-
how, through the Melbourne ’plane fac-
tory and munition works, it should get a
fair slice of Federal money by the more
healthy trade route.
Tonge, M.L.A., upending himself in
the Macquarie-street joint, claimed that
“the Lang bogey” had been “laid in
Gwydir.” Actually Gwydir was won be-
cause the electors accepted the explicit
assurance of Ctirtin that Federal Labor
was independent of the N.S.W. Labor
executive, which was taken to mean that
he wouldn’t touch Langism with a pair
of Tonges.
If the money can be got, the Victorian
Government proposes to spend £8,750,000,
at the rate of £600,000 or so p.a., “on
the Kiewa Valley hydro-electric project
and extensions to the Newport ‘B’ power
station.” The announcement was made
while the N.S.W. Miners’ Federation
bosses were meeting the mineowners at
a Sydney conference, with Industrial
Judge Cantor in the chair, and the fact
that Kiewa will mean a further shrinking
of the Victorian market for N.S.W. coal
must have had a moderating influence.
The British are expelling three German
journalists from London, and the Ger-
mans have retaliated by giving a London
“Times” man notice to quit Berlin. The
“Times,” the Manchester “Guardian”
and the “Cronk News” are in a dreadful
state about it, and call upon the British
public to rise up and do something; but
the British public seems quite unmoved.
Perhaps its opinion is that more foreign
correspondents should be chucked out of
both countries.
Philip Gibbs has no illusions about
war-scare scribes who alarm people with-
out cause, and so much of whose stuff
is cabled to Australia. In Ordeal in
England he quotes a Royal Air Force
man as condemning “the daily spate of
lies in most of our newspapers.” For
himself he writes:
Every day for the past two years many
newspapers in this country have kept their
readers' nerves on edge. Every crisis be-
comes to them a new threat of a world war.
Their correspondents in many countries
emphasise these constantly-arriving dangers.
Here and there this faithful reporter
mentions, with apparent aversion, the
“Cronk News.”
Lyons has been touring Tasmania,
from which Ogilvie has been absent so
long. Partly because of this long ab-
sence and of the impression produced
by the increased cocksureness and arro-
gance of the Ogilvie Government, the
P.M. returned to the mainland with the
conviction that he is safe at Wilmot and
that McPhee will win Denison ; and he
may be right on both points. On paper
it is an advantage to Federal Labor for
State Labor to be in office. In practice
it is a handicap nine times out of ten.
The long-delayed redistribution of Vic-
torian Federal electorates meant that
Hutchinson, the member for Indi, had
to look elsewhere. His choice fell on
Deakin, which takes in parts of Indi,
Flinders, Echuca and Corio. E. F. Har-
rison, the member for Bendigo, which has
become unsafe, and former Police Com-
missioner Blarney made the same choice,
and the three had to go before a U.A.P.
convention held at the Women’s National
League headquarters. The ladies domi-
nated the convention, and they decided
for Hutchinson. He is young and “in-
teresting, my dear”; Harrison and
Blarney are a thought elderly.
In 1936 tax-revenue per head was
£9 Bs. 6d. in the Commonwealth,
£7 10s. Bd. in Queensland, £6 3s. sd. in
Westralia, £6 3s. 2d. in Tasmania,
£6 2s. Bd. in N.S.W., £5 11s. 6d. in S.A.
and £5 7s. Bd. in Victoria ; average for
Commonwealth and States £l5 9s. lid.
The British figure was £l7 4s. sd. The
statistics have been collected by the
ANOTHER HEW EDUCATION FELLOWSHIP CONFERENCE.
“Say it after me, boys: ‘A is for Amour.’ ”
“Hey, Jack, tell him to cut it out and give us a double for the two Cups.”
Federated Taxpayers, and they are inter-
esting ; but, in the case of income taxa-
tion, true comparisons can be based only
on rates of tax imposed.
The mud-geyser known as the N.S.W.
Parliament has been active again. A
cheeky fellow named Alam availed him-
self of the privilege which Leg. Coun-
cil membership affords to deliver a
guttersnipe attack on a police inspector
who annoyed Alam by bobbing up in
night clubs. Lang followed in the other
place with a cartload directed at Stevens,
the old gentleman working himself into
such a paroxysm of rage that towards
the end he gave the impression that he
scarcely knew what he was-saying. This
rowdy imitation of a deliberative assem-
bly will remain a mud-geyser until vic-
tims of now-privileged mudslinging are
given the right to sue.
Even the cheering “Age” received a
momentary check in its Dunstan Budget
crow when it struck the railway figures.
Dunstan admitted to “recouping” the
railways with £697,000, and to a railway
“deficit” of £401,000. “Apparently the
actual loss last year exceeded £1,000,000,”
observed the “Age” with commendable
sagacity. Apparently it did, and appar-
ently transport strangulation does not
help much, though it harms inlanders.
Before the spacious days of Common-
wealth grants, Tasmania got along with
four Cabinet Ministers, and their duties
kept them in Tasmania. There ate now
eight Ministers, six with salaries, and
among them they do a lot of travelling.
In fact, N.S.W. would feel lonely if one
of these gentlemen didn’t drop in every
now and then to give it the benefit of his
advice.
The outlawing, by edict, of Melbourne-
Riverina and Melbourne-Mt. Gambier
road competition was followed by rail-
way-unionist demonstrations, at which
the 40-hour week and 25 p.c. more, pay
were demanded. There was much talk
of capitalist chains and imperialist
slavery and the glorious achievements
of the Red Revolution, Government rail-
wayman having drifted into the habit of
employing Reds and Pinks. In the land
of the Red Revolution hundreds of dis-
satisfied railwaymen have lately been
butchered for being dissatisfied, though
the Government story is that they were
Trotskyist wreckers or Japanese spies or
something. The butchery wasn’t men-
tioned at the demonstrations.
Australian newspapermen have been
guests of the Spanish “Government” on
< a personally conducted tour of part of
the front. They found the churches closed.
The Minister of Justice has since an-
nounced that his “Government” has “re-
solved to make liberty of worship a
reality.” “Liberty of worship,” it seems,
is “a constitutional principle,” but the
“principle” has been mislaid.
The Ogilvie who is Tas. Premier with-
out portfolio (his brother is Attorney-
General) and the Minister of Health, Dr.
Gaha, reached Sydney the other day on
their return from the Coronation. They
were met by Ministers Gray, D’Alton and
Cosgrove, and, as a local chronicler put
it, “for the first time in history a meet-
ing of the Tasmanian Cabinet was held
in Sydney—at Usher’s Hotel.” A con-
tribution to history, no doubt, and also,
perhaps, to the story of the decline and
fall of State politicians.
Mason, K.C., who beat the U.A.P.
machine in Woollahra (N.S.W.), has
annoyed fellow-Assemblymen by express-
ing honest doubts whether he and they
have a right to travel everywhere on the
nod.
My gold pass will take me over all the
railways, not only of Australia, but of
New Zealand, sleeper provided; and my
wife can get passes four times a year. If
the people are satisfied with this sort of
thing
They aren’t, but they will have to put up
with it until they sweep away State Par-
liaments. Members of provincial coun-
cils or assemblies wouldn’t get passes,
over “all the railways, sleeper provided.”
Forty-hour-week advocates are never
stuck for arguments, or what pass for
arguments, but they seem to be concen-
trating on the contention that their
nostrum would cure unemployment. In
the U.S.A. it has done nothing of the
kind. After two or three years of taking
the medicine, the U.S.A., according to
the careful “Saturday Evening Post,” has
“approximately 40,000,000 persons em-
ployed and 10,000,000 persons unem-
ployed.”
Far more non-combatants than sol-
diers have been killed in the China fight-
ing. Setting out to bomb a Japanese
flagship in the heart of Shanghai, near the
clustered Japanese, U.S.A., German and
Russian Consulates and the N.Y.K. pas-
senger wharves, Chinese airmen laid their
eggs of death round the Palace Hotel,
quarter of a mile away, on the other side
of the broad Soochow Creek. Over 800
people were killed and another 1000-odd
injured by Chinese bombs and Japanese
anti-aircraft fire, and the British flag-
ship, H.M.S. Cumberland, was nearly
scuppered. Chinese are better sowers
of turnips than of bombs.
What a burlesque Government railway
finance has become! In N. S. Wales
£BOO,OOO of tax-money from the Treas-
ury is called railway income, and the
Treasury hands out millions in free-of-
interest loans for work that ought to be
paid for out of railway receipts, while
there is no allowance for depreciation
and no rates or taxes are paid. In Vic-
toria last year £697,000 from the Treas-
ury was called railway income. A deficit
of £401,000 is admitted, but there is to
be a surplus of £1025 this year. The
surplus will be arrived at after “writing
off” £30,000,000 of railway capital on
which interest at 4 p.c. or so will still
have to be paid.
Nearly every section seems to have
been thought of by Dunstan when he
was preparing his third (election) Budget:
“Crown employees,” State pensioners,
the unemployed (they are to get more
“sustenance”), widows and children
registered with the Children’s Welfare
Department, and persons paying un-
employed-relief tax. Only “ordinary”
income-tax-payers were neglected. Per-
haps they are not numerous enough to
count.
Touching these alphabetical tickets:
N.S.W. Labor’s notion that it can win the
Senate election on an alphabetical ticket has
had a sort of trial spin in Dubbo town, which
is always solid for State and Federal Labor.
Five aldermen resigned to test local feeling as
to whether £9OOO should be spent on council
chambers on a new site or £3OOO in rebuilding
on the present site. They were opposed by
Labor, which ran a ticket consisting of two Bs,
two Cs and one M. The aldermen were two
Gs, an L, an S and a T. Labor got 2610 votes
and the others 5840; the two Bs were at the
bottom of the poll, and the two Cs did little
better. One of the Gs topped the poll, the T
was second, the other G third, the L fourth and
the S fifth. Exit the alphabetical ticket.


WELCOME, STRANGER!
“It has been suggested that, in order to make the N.S.W. sesqui-centenary celebrations more attractive, special privileges be granted to overseas visitors.”


Safe and Profitable —
A CATHOLIC POLICY
• Old age or untimely death terminates a man’s earning-power, but matures
the life policy.
• Think of your dependants, and the time when YOU will be dependent.
With a Catholic whole-life or endowment contract you can t go wrong.
Your premiums earn bonuses, which accumulate as the policy matures.
• Take out a Catholic policy and you have a front-rank investment. The
office directs attention to "The Bulletin’s" criticism (10/l/’34). Policy-
holders get 90 p.c. of the profits.
Australasian
CATHOLIC
Assurance
CO., LTD.,
Head Office: Corner King and York Streets, Sydney.
E. J. Mooney, Managing Director.
P. J. Ryan, Secretary.
Branch Offices:
Victoria: A,.C.A. Building, 118-126 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: A.C.A. Building, 270 Queen Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Paringa Building, 13 Hindley Street, Adelaide.
Western Australia: Warwick House, St. George’s Terrace, Perth.
District Offices and Agencies Throughout the States.
Australia’s Leading Financial Journal .
AUGUST ISSUE NOW ON SALE.
THE BANKING COMMISSION:
ARE ITS RECOMMENDATIONS SOUND?
NEW ECONOMICS
OUTLOOK FOR INVESTORS
STOCKS WORTH WATCHING
PT?irr ?/ PFR COPY OR £l/216 PER ANNUM POSTED.
PRICE 2/- PER LUr , George Street, Sydney, and all States.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd., ueorge ou
PERSONAL ITEMS
“Little Doctor” Billy Maloney, in Eng-
land for his second Coronation trip, was
on his way to Ireland when he felt an
illness approaching, returned on the same
boat and asked to be taken to St. Mary’s
Hospital in London, where he received
his medical training 60 years ago. Diag-
nosis, a slight stroke ; but a Harley-street
man says with care he will be able to
leave for home this week according to
schedule. Billy has been member for
Melbourne in the Federal House since
1904, and was M.L.A. for West Mel-
bourne for 14 years before that. He is
now 83.
Dr. Cyril Norwood, one of the leading
delegates to the New Education con-
ferences, one-time master of Harrow
and now president of St. John’s College,
Harrow and Oxford.
Oxford, declares that with a system of
physical education it is within the power
of Australia, with its advantages of
climate and opportunity, to produce the
most splendid physical type on earth. He
prefers organised games to the mass
drills of the European continent. Inci-
dentally, Norwood, as an old Harrovian,
tilts at the statement attributed to the
Duke of Wellington that “Waterloo was
won on the playing fields of Eton.”
He says that organised games were not
played on the fields of Eton at the time
of Waterloo, nor anywhere else in Eng-
land betwen the days of the Puritans and
1860.
A visitor to the capital who rarely sees
cities is Dr. Otto Raible, who for many
years has been Roman Catholic Vicar
Apostolic of the Kimberleys. His flock
wear less clothing than any other in Aus-
tralia and some of them are a tough lot,
but the Vicar goes among them with
complete nonchalance. For much of the
year his presbytery is roofed with stars.
David Orme Masson, son of a His-
toriographer Royal of Scotland, served
Melbourne University as Professor of
Chemistry from 1886 to 1923, when he
became Professor Emeritus. He has passed
on at 79, and will be better remembered
for his organising and research work
than for his teaching, though he was a
lucid lecturer and an excellent disci-
plinarian. Much of his research was done
in collaboration with Sir William Ram-
say, Professor of Chemistry at London
University. When Ramsay died, Masson
refused his job—the plum of the world’s
chemistry instructorships. Masson was a
prime mover in organising the Mawson
Antarctic expedition and a founder of
the C.S. and I.R. He served as president
of the Australasian Association for the
Advancement of Science (twice), of the
Australian Research Council, of the Aus-
tralian Chemical Institute and of the
Second Pan-Pacific Science Congress in
Sydney in 1923. During the war he was
a vigorous patriotic worker, and in 1922
was given a K.B.E.
The claim made for William Thomas
McNiece, who notched a tally of 92 at
Adelaide last week, that while overseer at
Swinton station, Victoria, he met Marcus
Clarke and was made the character “Mc-
Alister” in For the Term of His Natural
Life, was promptly upset by Marcus
Clarke’s daughter Marian, who said that
“McAlister” does not appear in that
book. “McAlister,” for which McNiece
was undoubtedly the inspiration, appears
in a collection of short stories published
as Bullock Town Romances.
One old Queensland resident who has
achieved distinction in U.S.A. is J. L.
Mursell, Professor of
Psychology at Columbia.
Son of the pastor of the
Brisbane Baptist Taber-
nacle, he started at Bris-
bane Grammar School in
1909, won the Earl of
Meath’s Essay Prize
(1911) against the schools
of the Empire, and the
Swanwick declamation
prize, and graduated B.A.
at Queensland University
with first-class honors in
mental philosophy. In
1915 he went abroad with
an Archibald scholarship and a founda-
tion travelling scholarship.
Senior partner in Ross and Rowe,
Sydney architect Herbert E. Ross col-
lapsed and died at the wheel
of his car last week. Ross,
who came from an Inverell
pioneering family, was a de-
signing- engineer in Queens-
land before setting up his
plate as an architect in Syd-
ney with Ruskin Rowe. The
Government Savings Bank
was his work, and he also
designed Mark Foy’s build-
ing, the first in Sydney in
which extensive use was
made of tiled facings. The
Commonwealth Government
put him on the board to give
architectural advice on the
buildings in the Federal capi-
tal in 1921, and he served in
that capacity for six years.
Prominent man of affairs,
there were few projects of a
national or civic character about which
his professional advice was not sought.
Maoriland’s Leg. Council loses an-
other of its octogenarian members by
the passing on of Leonard Monk Isitt.
English-born, he reached M.L. in the
’seventies to establish a softgoods branch,
got religion, and became a Methodist
minister. A meeting with Tommy Taylor
converted Isitt to prohibition, and he
was one of Fernland’s most accomplished
dry orators. A twinkling, humorous eye
and a breezy manner carried him through
on any sort of platform, and when
Taylor died, in 1911, Isitt succeeded to
his Independent seat in Parliament, North
Christchurch, held it easily for 14 years,
and then retired, to be appointed imme-
diately to the House of Very Old Men.
He dropped the ministry early in his
political career and established a book-
selling business in Christchurch. A bit
like Lloyd George in appearance, with a
mane of white hair, he was too intelli-
gent ever to become pompous. Once
when he had done something in Parlia-
ment that riled his electorate, he turned
back just as he was striding on to the
stage to address a crowded and rather
hostile meeting of his constituents. “For-
got my handkerchief,” he explained as
he passed the reporters’ table in the
wings; “might have to do a bit of weep-
ing.”
George (Barney) Mullins, M.L.C., for
the seventh time re-elected secretary of
the Sydney Waterside Workers’ Union,
has survived 20 elections in as many
years, annual election being the union
rule. He was vigilance officer from 1917
to 1930, and was a former Mayor of
Balmain and a director of the short-lived
“World.”
Union Trustee Co.’s Sydney manager
John G. H. Shipway is a former Regis-
trar of Probates, N.S.W. Supreme Court.
He turned in the Government job in 1926
to link up with the Trustee Co. These
days his diversions include Rotary,
Police Boys’ Club (Woolloomooloo), asst,
hon. sec. to the Crippled Children’s
Society. Manly Rugby Union (son Alf a
player), iceberging in the Manly surf
and 16-mark on the local links show the
sporting side of a genial man.
“El V.”: D. L. Dymock, the Illawarra
(N.S.W.) pioneer whose death was noted
in The Bulletin last week, was so long
that no ordinary bed would hold him,
and his trips to shows in his later years
set a problem for hotelkeepers. He be-
longed to the age when women thought
nothing of a 50-mile walk to Sydney
and when butter was brought from the
South Coast to Sydney in kegs by boat.
PREMIER OGILVIE and HEALTH
MINISTER GAHA, of Tasmania, home
from the Coronation.
When he prophesied more than half a
century ago that Australia would send
thousands of tons of butter abroad, he
was generally laughed at. So he organ-
ised the first Australian butter factory,
which still stands outside Kiama.
A. N. White, pictured here by Frith,
has been prime mover in collecting
£75,000 for ex-soldiers’ causes —for limb-
less and blind men particularly. Born
in St. Kilda (Vic.) —his father, J.H.,
represented the London shipping
firm, F. Green and Co.—he wandered
about a deal before settling down to
advertising and publicity in Sydney. He
carried the knot from Southern Cross to
Coolgardie in ’94 and spent eight years
on the fields. He saw the first race-
meeting at Coolgardie—the jockeys were
mainly mounted on camels —and he grew
Sends Round the Hat.
the first tiny patch of wheat. “Billy'’
asked him to help in the recruiting cam-
paign, and he stayed on the job in
Queensland and N.S.W. till the finish.
Among other good deeds, he was respon-
sible for the special seating accommoda-
tion at Sydney Cricket Ground and the
R.A.S. for limbless and t.b. soldiers.
T. G. Hope at 34 becomes Under-
secretary to the Queensland Treasury
and youngest departmental head in Aus-
tralia. Townsville-born, son of a railway
department official, he got his chance in
1924 when he became private secretary
to Forgan Smith, who was then Minister
for Agriculture. In 1932 he became chief
clerk in the Chief Secretary’s Department.
One of the last of the first Federalists:
Bruce Smith, even in an age when there were
dandies in Parliaments, was easily the leader
of political fashion. His exemplary cravats,
his buttonhole, the white frame to the “V” of
his waistcoat, his immaculate spats offsetting
a neat foot, his tightly-rolled umbrella marked
him as a man apart, and his ample bulk gave
cartoonists plenty of material to work on.
Bruce Smith was born politically two years
after The Bulletin, and in the turbulent years
before and after the foundation of the Com-
monwealth his anti-White Australia outlook and
his solemnity assured him a place in The
Bulletin gallery of national characters. Born
with the money of the Howard Smith firm be-
hind him (he was managing director for five
years), and with a good brain, he was a
solid businessman and a tough customer to
have as an opposing counsel in a commercial
case at law. In politics, he took himself too
seriously to achieve greatness. A superiority
complex and an independent mind put him out
of court as a Parliamentary leader, and a stilted
delivery and lack of humor spoilt his chance
as a swayer of crowds in a day when Deakin,
Reid, Kingston and J. C. Watson flourished.
Passed hence at 86, he was the last survivor of
Parkes’s Ministries, and was one of the few
surviving veterans of the first Federal House
and of the great debates on earlier national
measures, such as the Immigration Bill. He
remained in the Federal Parliament, sitting
for Parkes, till 1919. Twice he refused the
Speakership, as in his days in the N.S.W. Par-
liament he had refused a Supreme Court
Judgeship and the Agent-Generalship. He was
a good fellow, sincere and fearless in his
public life. His last 16 years were mostly spent
quietly with his books at Bowral, and the
post-war generation scarcely knew him.


It'S ORAGFREE-It s FAST and TOUGH
like the LEOPOHIPPO
The LEOPARD leaps like flash of light,
The HIPPO's tough and fears no fight,
But LEOPOHIPPO blends the two,
Like DRAG-FREE SHELL, the OIL for you,
Whose SPEED makes engines very fleet,
Whose TOUGHNESS stands the fiercest heat.
a
*
M
*
V
w
9
G
&
a
i
&
m
*
I
MU
k *
LEOPARD
I
f
i»k*
HIPPOPOTAMUS
MOTOR
OIL
Starting causes more engine-
wear than all the running.
Shell Motor Oil is Drag-
Free and Tough—Fast flow-
ing to reduce Starting Wear,
and Tough to stand the
heat of steady driving and
to Last Longer.
RECOMMENDATIONS:
For the correct grade for your car, consult the SHELL TABLE OF RECOMMENDATIONS
which are available from every garage. Pocket-charts will be posted free on application.
USE SHELL SPECIALISED LUBRICATION SERVICE
LOl 13H.


BEENLEIGH RUM MINE TINK IT BEST
“Gigas”: I am disappointed with that
allegedly national hero the kookaburra. I
was always under the impression that he
was a bold and assertive fowl, giving
way to nothing in feathers. The idea
was dispelled recently when two or three
'‘mountain magpies” started to share the
regular meals I served for the kookas on
a special table on my verandah. The
newcomers —the books tell me they are
“white-winged choughs”—did nothing so
vulgar as quarrel or fight. They just took
charge of the banqueting arrangements,
and whenever they arrived the kooka
frauds fled as if the First Politician was
after them. My idea is that the cool
insouciance with which the newcomers
have annexed my bounty is derived from
the conscious superiority shown in the
fact.that they always come to dinner in
evening dress —satiny black and snowy
white ; Jack, on the other hand, with his
Crimean shirt and moleskins outfit, is evi-
dently suffering a deep inferiority com-
plex.
Hs H 4 #
“Notaden”: Among popular beliefs
which accurate observation has exploded
is that of “annual rings” in tree-trunks as
proof of age. Ring formation depends
mainly on regularity of local rainfall, and
varies widely with the. species. Queens-
land Forestry Service observations on a
cypress-pine raised from seed, and thus
of accurately known age, showed between
two and three rings for each actual year.
Kauri pine makes two rings yearly, in
spring and autumn respectively, even in
times of best rainfall, but if top growth
is extended by breaking off leaders to
stimulate new growth additional rings
form in the trunk. Very deep-rooted
trees, such as bunyas and blue gums, are
less affected by rainfall, but even with
them additional seasonal rings occur.
* * * *
“Buzfuz”: A Gjppsland (Vic.) Digger
is keeping foxes from his lambs with a
device similar to that which fooled the
Turks at the Gallipoli evacuation. Two
bully-beef tins are so placed that water
dripping from the top tin makes the
lower one heavy enough to discharge a
gun. Several old guns, discharging at
different hours, are proving effective.
Reynard only needs a sniff of gunpowder
to send him hunting fresh fields.
* * * *
“Valerin”: We were putting 1500
sheep through a gate, when a hare,
appearing in the centre of the mob,
hopped on the back of a sheep and stood
on its hind legs to get a view of things.
Then, spotting the dogs at the rear, it
ran quickly over the backs of the. sheep
to the front and .got right away. As a
rule hares get bamboozled in a flock of
sheep, and the dogs grab them as they
emerge.
* * * *
“Narque”: Why is it that Australian
black-and-white artists draw a sea cray-
fish with the huge, bulbous foreclaws of
the European and American lobster?
The cray does not possess these, his
forelegs differing in no important par-
ticular from the others. lam aware that
the modern black-and-white man, like
his writing contemporary, never goes
home in the small hours with a bottle
in one pocket and a cray in the other,
as was the practice in the brave days of
old. Yet he should be familiar enough
with the beast’s anatomy, for he must
pass innumerable fish shops which
display the rubescent bundle of indi-
gestion
* * * *
“East St.”: A few more words before
friend wombat shuffles off these pages.
No other marsupial puts the amouht of
hard yakka into building a home that
the wombat does. It makes easy work
of the digging part, for its powerful fore-
legs are ideal for the purpose, and it
displays some originality in disposing
of the loose dirt. The burrower scratches
out a goodly heap of spoil; then goes
into reverse, pushing the dirt out of the
burrow with its broad stern. The hard,
callous patch on the rump bears witness
to this practice. Many burrows extend
for considerable distances. One I know
followed the contours of a hillside for
over a mile, and had numerous side
tunnels branching from it.
❖ ❖ ❖ ❖
“Poissar”: There was wisdom in
W.A.’s recent enforcement of its ban on
the house sparrow, with which most of
the rest of inhabited Australia is cursed.
The bird is responsible for enormous
damage to crops, and will tackle insects
only when other food is unobtainable.
He can’t, or won’t, support himself in
the bush. That’s why he haunts towns
and farming areas. But W.A. might do
worse than examine the credentials of
“Play 'IM boy', play 'im!"
the British hedge-sparrow (Accentor
modularis). He is an insect-eater and,
unlike the European species, is non-
migratory. Moreover, he prefers country
to city life and is not particular as to
kind of country, provided its insect-larder
is well-stocked.
* * * *
“Tockilly”: Next time. you are scarf-
ing an ironbark and a noise like escap-
ing air comes from the belly cut hold a
lighted match in the cut. The resultant
flame will be similar to the one the
town-dweller gets from his gas stove.
Also, when felling a scrub box-tree the
rush of water from it can soak you.
Both the water and the gas come out
under high pressure, but whence they
come and why the pressure are to me
mysteries.
*1”
“McAroni”: In lean times dingoes will
congregate in numbers and patrol
beaches for food. I have seen them dig-
ging in the sand for pipis and crunch-
ing the shells with apparent ease. Once,
during a cold westerly, I peered into a
hole a prospector had dug in the sand
and painfully surprised a large warri-
gal. With a snort, he sprang right at my
face, and had disappeared over the ter-
race in a shower of flying sand before I
made the pleasing discovery that my
throat was not torn out after all.
“Walkabout”: Most doggers have
their own methods of matching ther wits
against the wily dingo, from using decoy
mixtures of their own concoction to pre-
paring various baits. Jack the Scalper,
who had spent most of his life kangaroo-
shooting or dogging, ridiculed all the
fancy decoy mixtures ; he used traps and
a lure that never failed. Jack, who had
reared a young dingo bitch, would set a
number of traps in a circle and just before
sundown place a netting cage containing
the bitch in the centre of the circle. He
had taught the tame dingo to howl when
caged, and from his near-by camp he
could estimate his haul by the answering
howls. On one station in W.Q. Jack
made more money from bonuses than the
manager received in salary.
* if * *
“Warrigal 1 ”: The full-blooded aingo is
not born with any greater share of cun-
ning than the domestic pup (B. 28/7/’37).
In spring, when the young ones are roam-
ing the country for their first season,
nothing is simpler than to shoot nearly
every one encountered. At the sight of
man they simply stand stockstill and
gape like a flapper outside a hatshop. I
cannot recall ever striking a dingo which
could be put in the same street for
brains as a well-trained cattle-dog, nor
a fox either, for that matter. Inciden-
tally, the fox derives his reputation, not
for sneaking on unsuspecting hens, but
for avoiding hens which have the. slight-
est suspicion of strychnine about them.
# *
“Gidya George”: Will one of those
who have been arguing about the nam-
ing of trees and plants tell me how
Parkinsonia originated? It is a common
tree about station homesteads in west
Queensland ; here and there it has gone
bush.
* * * *
“Hayband”: The Philadelphia concern
which three years ago discovered the
superior merits of kangaroo-skin (B.
28/7/’37) was over a half-century astern
of other American competition. More
than 30 years ago American, British and
German buyers attended ’roo-skin sales
at Sydney, Brisbane and Fremantle, and
American demand for ’roo-skin was al-
ready an old story. In More Tramps
Abroad Mark Twain records that a
fellow-traveller to Australia was coming
to this country “to buy the whole kan-
garoo-skin crop, both the Australian and
the Tasmanian.” That was in 1895.
* -t :;< *
“Cooramin”: One agricultural show
item, wiped off the slate, many farmers
would like to see revived—the plough-
ing competition. Once hundreds of
pounds were wagered on district cham-
pions, the contests sometimes lasting for
three days. The biggest event was staged
by the Victorian Agricultural Society—
first prize for single plough, 100 guineas.
It was held at Werribee, and attracted
ploughmen from three States. The last
match I saw was in a paddock at South
Grafton (N.S.W.). The big crowd made
it a picnic day, and ploughmen turned
up in their Sunday best, discarding only
their coats when they set to work. The
most satisfied onlooker was the man
who owned the paddock ; he got a big
piece of ground ploughed for nothing.
5{S J(S
“Loggerhead”: Ever noticed a turtle
breathing? Even though it may have
been on the land for some time it still
goes through the respiratory actions it
uses when in the water. It gathers itself
into a compact bundle, lifts its head and
fills its lungs, subsiding with its head
in a horizontal position until time to lift
it again and do another with the nose in
the air. I never found one yet that would,
or could, take a breath when its head
wasn’t stuck vertically.
* * * *
“N otad e n” : Some Australasian
wonders, according to a Yankee travel-
ling doctor, his “own eyes as witnesses”:
“Kangaroos range in size from a mouse
to a man” ; “abundant skunks, in which
legs have disappeared, leaving only a
solitary toe” ; “a tremendous wild buf-
falo, ten feet between the tips of his
horns, roams the back country” ; “the
Great Barrier Reef is haunted by shell-
fish which can bite an oar in two” ; “in
New Zealand I saw the extinct moon-
bird.” Regarding rabbits, “packs of
half-tamed dingoes failed to diminish
them....a hundred thousand miles of
fences were erected.... the fences had to
be extended further and further until
eventually they overlapped and enclosed
the rabbits instead... .one ship some-
times carries a million rabbit carcasses
to London.” We’re a pugnacious lot,
too. “Warfare of one kind or another
was always being waged against a neigh-
boring city, State, or even the Federal
Government.
* * * *
“Kerriki”: Monotonous tucker, is it
(B. 28/7/’37)? I once worked for a boss
whose preference was for sausages. We
used to have them fried, grilled, baked,
curried, devilled and cold. They never
left the menu unless we were cut off
from town by a flood, and then he used
to try to make his own from any sheep
we happened to kill to tide over the
crisis. After a month of it, my mate
tactfully suggested that a changeless diet
of sausages was a bit tough. “A bit
tough,” said the old coot seriously. “I've
been eating them, man and boy, for close
on 40 years, and I’ve never struck a
tough one yet!”
* * * *
“Naturalist”: Harmless enough at
other times, the sacred kingfisher (the
bluish-backed chap with the white under-
parts) can become a nuisance at family-
raising times, especially when he takes
up abode adjacent to a farmhouse. With
a volley of shrill cries he will hurl him-
self at any inhabitant of the farmyard
that wanders within certain limits of his
domicile. The wits are scared out of
unsuspecting cacklers, and small chicks
are often killed with a single peck be-
hind the head from the fisher’s beak.
Have also known Halcyon to kill young
pet butcher-birds. Once he takes to
chicken-killing there’s no remedy but a
charge of shot.
* * * *
“Elaps”: The ancient fiction that
snakes are fond of music (B. 4/8/’37)
has long been exploded. Numerous ex-
haustive experiments show conclusively
that snakes, which have no outward ear
and a very inefficient interior apparatus,
are stone-deaf. In the same way it has
been shown that the sense of hearing
has been replaced by sensitiveness to
ground vibrations. That is, a snake
would sense the tread of an approaching
human but be quite deaf to the fact that
he was singing or whistling.
AUCTION.
They had an auction Tuesday week
At Dickson’s, down at Dead End Flat.
The auctioneer, old Billy Brown,
Came in the s’ervice cai from town
And spent the night at Willow Creek,
And all the countryside was at
The Dickson sale at Dead End Flat.
“Gosh, everything is worn to shreds!
There’s awful rubbish in the sheds.
1 want the mangle. There it goes! ■
Now what’s it worth, d’ you suppose?
Well, 1 must have it. Two-pounds-four.
1 hope it doesn’t rise much more.
There’s not a decent bed. Two-eight.
The linen’s in a fearful state.
They’ve been here twenty years; since then
They haven’t bought a thing. Two-ten.
You know how thriftless they’ve all been
All through their lives. Yes, two-fifteen.
Just look across and try to see
Who’s that who’s bidding over me.
It’s going up by leaps and bounds —
Well, here’s my limit. Yes, three pounds.
Who got it? What, my husband! Jim !
Just wait till I get hold of him!”
Well, all the district came to see
The auction down at Dead End Flat,
The old house, with its timbers worn,
The paddocks barren and forlorn,
And Dickson, by the wattle-tree,
Remarking, “Well, I’ll take my hat,
And leave the mortgage and the cat.”
N.S.W.
MING.


“Mat’s Mate”: Me and big Mat was
driving an old nag up to the Burra (S.A.)
when it jibbed. All our cursing and flog-
ging was in vain. Then I remembered
what an old horseman once told me, and
went to the nag’s offside and sunk my
teeth in the base of its offside ear. There
was a bound, and nag and buggy lit out
for the horizon. Mat picked himself
out of the dust and growled, “What’d
y’ do t’ him?” “Bit his lug,” I replied.
Mat contemplated the vanishing chariot,
then held his head sideways to me.
“Well,” he said, “y’ better bite mine now,
so I can catch the cow!”
* * * *
“W.”: I’m beginning to doubt if it
is really necessary for Australian birds
to migrate. During the winter just end-
ing, one of the severest on record in
the Moss Vale (N.S.W.) district, a pair
of swallows elected to see it through,
thus saving themselves the long trek
north to wherever they go. The pair are
wintering in an outbuilding, and appear
to live much the same as in the summer
months. Whether they inadvertently
missed the autumn roll-call or decided
deliberately to try the experiment, I
don’t know. Doubtless they will be
looked on as heroes by returning breth-
ren when spring comes.
* * * *
“C. Mac”: The day The Bulletin
came out with “Finny’s” story of the
wholesale mysterious deaths of fish in
South Africa and W.A. (4/8/’37) a simi-
lar instance of turning up the gills hap-
“Now will you talk?”
pened in Sydney harbor. The fish here
were frost fish, described as “deep-sea
dwellers that come to the surface at
night.” They were thick in the water
and quite helpless, apparently paralysed,
Fishermen declared they hadn’t seen ’em
in the harbor in 20 years. An explana-
tion advanced was that the cold westerly
snap the night before they came ashore
had caught thern in their night surface-
tripping. Like “Finny” with his cases,
I doubt if this explanation amounts to
much. The frost fish commonly in-
habits water as cold as anything he’d be
likely to strike around Sydney that Tues-
day night. There is probably a close
relationship in all three, cases.
* * * *
“Siz”: I hazard the theory that the
explanation of the outbreak of shark
attacks at Sydney beaches in the past
few years is the heavy fishing of the
waters hereabouts. By trawls, fisher-
men’s nets and handlines an enormous
“I said BLACK coƒƒee!”
toll has been taken of this fish life in
the last 30 years, and with that has gone
the shark’s ordinary easy food supply.
Anyone who has fished on decent
grounds, such as the N.S.W. North
Coast, wouldn’t be bothered wetting a
line in the harbor or the seas adjacent.
The Hawkesbury, close to Sydney, sus-
tains its reputation as a good ground,
but even there fishing is getting more and
more precarious, calling for special
burley mixtures of pollard and the like
to ensure any catch at all. Sharks nosing
in these poverty-stricken waters must
get hungry, and human forms crawling
about in the waves must look like gifts
from the gods.
* * * #
“Roly”: Our death adder, brown and
black snakes are dangerous enough, but
we are fortunate that the mamba —either
the black or the green variety—has
chosen Africa as its habitat. Edgar Wal-
lace in one of his yarns likened a charac-
ter to a green mamba, and in explana-
tion said that whatever man a mamba
struck lived for two minutes only. He
was pretty well right. Two recorded
deaths from mamba bites are ‘ two
minutes and eight minutes. A bullock
will survive 15min., a donkey 20min ,
a mule 25min. Mambas are the only
living things a gorilla fears. I have seen
them about African rivers, the head
always about 6in. from the ground,
always on the qui vive. Unlike most
snakes, the mamba is not content with
one bite. It keeps on striking until it is
killed or has killed. The Zulus swallow
the gall as an antidote against the bite.
Had Binghi any practice resembling this?
“Koolpinyah”: Magpie geese in the
N.T. coastal country roost on trees when
the “wet” season is at hand, and the
prolonged parking puts them in poor
condition, making them easy meat for
Binghi’s spears and waddies. It is in the
“wet” that these birds lay their eggs, and
it was our practice on Koolpinyah sta-
tion to send natives out once a week to
the Adelaide River plains, three miles
distant, with bags. The same evening
they would return with them full of
eggs in all stages of being hatched. After
we had extracted some of the freshest,
the rest went to the camp. Binghi will
devour these even when the chicken is
due to hatch. The top of the egg is
knocked off and the remainder stood up
in red-hot ashes for a few minutes ; then
the native puts a hollow stick into the
egg and sucks it. I have seen a “boy”
eat 32 in this manner without stopping,
and after that partake of his ordinary
meal.
“Flight”: Corellas going to roost on
the Barkly Tablelands (Q.) are worth
watching. They squabble for favored
places, fight, swear, leave better spots for
worse, and, as the sun goes down, bed-
lam fills the air. The boughs of the
coolabahs are streamers of white flushed
with pink as the setting sun takes a last
look at ’em. In winter, when the limbs
are more brittle, a laden bough may snap
during the night.
The result isn’t just
a local disturbance.
Waves of indignant
screeching flow up
and down the water-
hole as bedless birds
seek some place on
which to rest in the
dark. Soon the
whole camp is dis-
turbed, and 10,000
or more corellas
swearing in the
night is a sound
not to be forgotten
in a hurry. Five
minutes will serve to
throw the whole
camp into turmoil.
In about half an
hour the row may
subside a bit, only
to grow again, and
it might be an hour
or more before the
last bird finds a
perch and tucks his
sleepy head under his wing.
* * * sfc
“Flight”: These backyard ornitholo-
gists seem to think that an eagle can
swoop and carry off its prey in the
manner of a kite hawk taking a chicken.
If it’s only a carney lizard the eagle is
attacking it will invariably kill it first on
the ground, eat a bit of it and, with its
prey’s weight thus reduced, lift what’s
left and take it home to the missus. As
for lifting a lamb, or even a rabbit, in a
rushing swoop—piffle to that! Even if it
takes its prey in the air the eagle always
rides it to the ground. Then it carves
the thing with its hacking bill. What
makes the eagle so easy to trap or to
poison is that it will always return to a
carcass in preference to going out and
making a fresh kill.
* * * *
“7346”: Towser’s memory for a de-
parted master (B. 4/8/’37) is probably as
variable with the individual as most
other qualities. In 1915 I brought my
black collie, sheep-bitch from c.-w.
Queensland to Sydney, where I parked
her with relatives while I took the six-
bob-a-day tour. I was away till 1919,
but the day I returned the collie answered
immediately to my whistle and gave me
a royal welcome. On the other hand,
the old man left a favorite Scotch collie
bitch behind when he took a look at the
Boer bust-up, and although he was away
only about a year she bit him good and
solid the moment he stepped inside the
gate. It was a week or so before she
would even tolerate him as one of the
family again.
❖ ► * o
“M. 8”: Was sitting in a stationary car
near Cowra (N.S.W.) waiting for a friend
when a hare suddenly shot out of the
timber, galloped across the road and
jumped into the front seat beside me,
where it “froze.” I enjoyed the com-
plete bafflement of the greyhound and
staghound that were hot on its tail. When
the still-puzzled hounds had departed,
the hare looked cautiously through the
door, then ambled off, wig-wagging its
compliments to me with its ears.
»: * * *
“Ela”: A lot of tosh is being talked
about Australian natives being done to
death by “bone-pointing,” this being
performed by a certificated magician.
In a land where I once had my being
proceedings were less theatrical, but just
as efficacious. The warlock just informed
his subject that he was “for it” and the
subject obediently snuffed it in as little
time as possible. Missionary effort and
conversion to Christianity have not ham-
pered the wizards. An outstanding
modern instance was the death by magic
in Christianised Port Moresby of a
native seaman who had received a reward
for saving a white man’s life at sea. He
refused to give the Magicians’ Union
what it thought was a fair cut and
was ordered to cross the Jordan, which
he promptly did. So great was the terror
inspired that his dependants made every
effort to avoid receiving the gift and the
Royal Humane Society’s medal which
went with it. Those interested can look
up Hubert Murray’s annual report of
five years or so ago for full details.
* * « *
“Cooee-bird”: White garments (B.
28/7/’37) are also the best to wear when
mosquitoes are troublesome. Either white
is not readily seen by the winged blood-
suckers or they are repelled by it. On
the other hand, dark colors, especially
black, seem to attract them. Take notice
when a mob of cattle or horses of mixed
colors are feeding together and the mos-
sies are about. The dark-hued animals,
particularly brown or black, will be
swarming with the parasites, whereas the
light-colored animals will be feeding in
comparative peace. Driving in the bush,
the writer, in order to enjoy a little peace,
used to hang his black coat over the back
rest of the sulky. The pests as a rule
would be a long time in discovering they
had been tricked.
DOGWOOD IN THE RAIN.
Tossed by a vagrant wind to me, as I was
passing by,
It brought the long years back again,
The scent of dogwood in the rain,
Beneath a cloudy sky.
The scent of dogwood-in the rain and early
morning’s hush;
The dawn mist trailing to the trees,
And faintly, on the first soft breeze,
The fluting of a thrush.
The scent of dogwood in the rain, of wood-
smoke rising slow,
Of fresh, white chips that dance and fly,
Of pale sunlight on axes high
And sturdy arms below.
The long miles through the tangled hills and
gullies overgrown,
The cool, deep gullies where the springs
Drip down the soft green moss that clings
To rotting log and stone.
The blackwoods by the winding creek; the blue-
gums on the hill;
The deep log-laden, shaded pool,
The splash of lines in waters cool,
Where blackfish linger still;
The rutted, twisting, shadowed track; the
slight clear sounds of night:
The slap of gently-lifting bark,
The soft swift scutterings through the dark,
the window-square of light.
The echo of a distant shot; the cowbells faint
and far;
The bloom of spring on tree and shrub;
The cattle crashing through the scrub;
The hum where wild bees are.
A vagrant humor of the wind has brought
it back again,
The creek, the bush, the years long spent;
And like a flood the memories pent
Come rushing, whelming, with the scent
Of dogwood in the rain.
VICTORIA.
A. G. BURNET.


ADAMS’ (TATTERSALL’S) HOTEL
259 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 484 GEORGE STREET.
Rooms, 6/- and 8/- per day; Breakfast, Table d’Hote or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE. PUBLIC DINING ROOMS.
Lunch from 12 noon (Sunday, 12.45 p.m.), Din ner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday, 5.45 p.m.).
Tables or Seats may be reserved by ’Phone, M 4601.
DF
Ludowici Leather Belting has been
accepted as the standard of quality for
nearly 80 years, and it is with the
object of furthering our reputation
that we have added other power
transmission lines to the original
Ludowici Pioneer Leather Belting.
Manufactured in our own machine shop. Adequate stocks maintained.
LUDOWICI PIVOT DRIVE
HOFFMAN BALL BfcARINGS
WORM AND SPUR GEARBOXES
LUDOWICI SPLIT PULLEY
SHAFTING, HANG ERS, BRACKETS
FLEXIBLE & RIGID COUPLINGS
Etc., Etc.
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON, LTD.
117 York St., SYDNEY—2O-26 Queen's Bridge St., STH. MELBOURNE.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established L 872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq. ; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq. ; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General 'Manager —D. S'. FORBES.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 97
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading- Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
The “Curvilinear” Concentrating Table
SEND FOR
BULLETIN
AND
PRICE.
DF
SIMPLE
AND
RELIABLE.
We are the patentees and manufacturers of this table. Call for a demonstration.
Can also quote for an classes of mining machinery, including stamp batteries,
amalgamating tables, magnetic ore separators, classifiers, agitators, everlasting
valves, water- and oil-filters, Rendrock and all other explosives and accessorie .
Electric motors and Ellison switch gear.
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LIMITED,
Sole Patentees and Manufacturers,
10-12 PARRAMATTA RD., CAMPERDOWN, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
The WILDCAT
COLUMN
Commercial Banking Co. of Sydney
Dividends. To
June, Profit. 10 p.e. Reserves. Reserves.
£>££>£
1926.. 485,069 350,000 135,069 3,055,296
Bank of Victoria absorbed.
Reserves taken over, £850,000 .. 3,905,290
Written Off.
1927.. 556,705 401,817 50,000 4,010,184
1928.. 653,243 473,212 50,000 4,140,215
1929.. 655,194 473,901 50,000 4,271,508
1930.. 637,619 473,901 50,000 4,385,220
84 p.c.
1931.. 441,816 402,816 4,424,220
54 p.c.
1932.. 253,866 260,646 4^417,446
5 p.c.
1933.. 259,077 236,950 20,000 4,419,573
1934.. 250,731 236,951 20,000 4,419,353
1935.. 203,937 236,951 25,000 4,421,339
6 p.c.
1936.. 298,227 284,341 25,000 4,410,225
64 p.e.
1937.. 342,041 308,035 25,000 4,419,231
Australia has much for which to thank
its associated trading banks. The sound-
ness of these institutions has been one
of the pillars of our strength. When
prices were falling money rushed for
safe shelter in the trading banks, whose
interest-bearing deposits climbed so
rapidly that they became, an embarrass-
ment for a while. Also, speaking gener-
ally, the trading banks have been a little
more generous than the trading branch
of the Commonwealth Bank so far as
advances are concerned. The solidness of
the banks has been due largely to the
fact that they kept their heads during
the boom years, sending substantial
sums to reserves (visible and otherwise.)
and keeping divs. steady.
Chief threat to the value of the
people’s savings came from Government
proposals. Yet, in its report, a majority
of the. banking commission thinks the
views not of Parliament but of the Gov-
ernment of the day should prevail in
important questions of monetary policy.
The report also suggests that the Treas-
urer be given extraordinary powers ; that
the central bank should control credit,
and be given a firm grip upon the trad-
ing banks’ basis of credit (deposits and
London funds) for the purpose ; and
that, if the trading banks’ profits exceed
what may be regarded as a fair return
“for services rendered,” the Government
should consider regulating these profits,
as in the case of some public utilities.
As for the very solid C. 8.5., which in
size ranks second on the list of the asso-
ciated banks, its earnings in relation to
shareholders’ funds (capital and reserves
combined) have always been less than the
N. S. Wales Gas Act considers a fair
thing from that class of public utility.
Certainly the co. has accumulated
£4,419,231 of reserves to support and
assist its £4,739,013 of share capital, but
it has taken over a century to do it. Like
the capital, the reserves belong to share-
holders, who are entitled to a fair return
on the two combined. It is not surpris-
ing, therefore, that the co. was able to
pay a steady 10 p.c. on capital alone for
the first 30 years of this century. The
rate dropped to 5 p.c. for the three years
to the end of June, 1935; only once
(1893) had the div. fallen below that
since 1848.
The slowness now evident in the re-
covery of bank earnings compared with
other traders is due largely to the con-
traction in interest rates and rents, and
to the fact that the margin between the
average price charged for advances and
that paid for deposits fell from 4.10 p.c.
for 1926 to 2.80 p.c. for 1932, and rose
to only 3.03 p.c. for the calendar year
1936. Extra Government bleeding has
had its effect, too.
During the 12 months to June 30,
trade continued to expand in both local
and export markets, and the call to pro-
vide for contingencies became less press-
ing, thanks to the rise in prices, especially
for wool and wheat. After providing for
taxation, bad and doubtful debts and
other contingencies, the board figured
net earnings £43,814 better than the pre-
vious year’s at £342,041, most of which
seems to have been gathered in returns
from Government securities and in rents.
The lending or chief section of the busi-
ness appears to have turned in very
little profit. The £342,041 was 3.7 p.c.
on shareholders’ funds, compared with
7.2 p.c., 1929; 7.4 p.c., 1925 ; 7.1 p.c.,
1919. On capital alone the year’s profit
was 7.2 p.c. as against 6.2, 5.5, 5.4, 5.7,
5.3, 9.3 13.7 and 13.8 p.c. back to 1929.
The div. was lifted from 6 p.c. to 6{ p.c.,
the final being at the rate of 7 p.c. p.a.
On the market the £25 shares paid
to £l2 10s. (the other half is callable
only in the event of liquidation) ad-
vanced from £2O Bs. a year ago to £23 ss.
in March last; the figure fell to £2l ss.
on Aug. 11, and then strengthened to
£2l 17s. last week. The return at
£2l 17s. is 4 p.c. on a 7 p.c. div. basis.
The net tangible cover is £24 3s. Id. per
share. It is thus plain that the market,
which backs its opinion with so much
of its funds as it chooses to employ,
thinks the earning capacity of the co.’s
asests is very moderate.
Balance-sheet figures reflect a strong
banking position, which has been
further strengthened by a fat export
season:
1932. 1930. 1937.
Notes .. .. £13,815 £13,669 £13,658
Bills . ... .. 1,158,933 1,121,006 1,198,742
Deposits .. 44,466,426 49,777,559 53,854,165
Liquids . . 18,952,981 21,117,982 25,436,808
Advances .. 34,643,037 37,853,871 37,744,225
Premises, etc., . 1,318,090' 1,231,789 1,209,641
As the wool and wheat cheques, etc.,
rolled in advances (down £109,646) were
repaid and deposits (up £4,076,606) and
liquids (up £4,318,826) expanded. When
the books closed advances amounted to
70 p.c. of deposits as against 76 p.c. at
the previous balance. Liquids were 46.1
p.c. of liabilities to the public, and the
bank was holding a shade over £6 of
outside money for every pound of its
own. It is a very strong position, but it
means low earning power until employ-
ment can be found for more of the
deposits.
N.Z. Perpetual Forests, Ltd.
Owing to the high price of softwoods
and softwood products during and after
the war, and the timber-famine bogey,
there has been a rush to plant exotic
conifers for commercial purposes, especi-
ally in Maoriland, where growing con-
ditions are very favorable. So far as
the owners of these softwood plantations
(the bondholders) are concerned, the
time has arrived when the outlook for
the whole business, as a commercial ven-
ture, simply bristles with problems.
Still, the sale of forestry bonds con-
tinues. What purchasers need to realise
is that these bonds are long-term specu-
lations, and guesses as to what return the
owners are likely to get in the long run
aren’t worth much at the moment.
This co., whose shareholders appear
to be in a very snug position, has a paid
capital of £197,536. Its earnings are
derived from the sale of forestry bonds,
not from the sale of timber. Briefly,
chief functions of the co. are to acquire
land, plant trees thereon, tend, maintain
and bring to maturity the forests thus
created, and then hand over the lot to
the forest owners or their representatives,
the outside time limit of the contract
being 20 years.
At the end of March, 1936, the co. had
sold 144,844 bonds at prices ranging from
£25 'to £55 each. The amount paid or
undertaken to be paid on these was
£4,173,113. The purchasers are spread
mostly throughout the Commonwealth
and Maoriland, though sales extended to
southern Asia, S. Africa and Britain as
well. The number of bonds sold during
the 12 months covered by the latest
accounts has not yet been broadcast
(there was an increase of 6765 acres in
the total area planted—l69,3ll acres),
but the gross return from all sources was
£54,754 lighter at £230,002, as the follow-
ing table shows:
Land and
Develop- Mainten- Dividend.
March, Sales, etc. inent. ance. Profit. 8 p.c.
1929. . £563,203 £388,789 £156,364 £18,050 £13,668
1930.. 320,249 165,666 135,709 18,874 14,772
1931.. 310,912 173,454 121,637 15,821 15,637
v
1932.. 285,296 246,101 39,195 15,537
1933.. 314,657 286,198 28,459 15,797
1934.. 153,062 128,754 24,308 15,803
1935.. 211,745 194,402 17,343 15,803
1936.. 284,756 262,561 22,195 15,803
1937.. 230,002 203,972 26,030 15,803
The drop in' gross earnings was more
than offset by a contraction of £58,589 in
exes., which include allowance for main-
tenance, etc. The declared net result
(up £3835) was 13.1 p.c. on capital. The
div. was kept at 8 p.c., and the £10,227
that remained lifted visible free reserves
to £38,448.
The real position depends upon how
much of the £1,157,114 (up £30,530)
specifically reserved for planting and
maintenance is actually required for the
purpose. The question is now being con-
sidered by the Bondholders’ Incorpora-
tion Commission, the authority appointed
by the. Maoriland Government to
straighten out complications (they are
many and various) associated with the
forestry-bond business. The bondholders
have formed a realisation co., N.Z. Forest
Products, Ltd., which is willing and
anxious to take actual possession of the
forests, and thus relieve the bond-selling
co. of the unexpired portion of its con-
tracts for maintenance, etc.> provided
agreement can be reached as to the sum
of money that should be handed over in
connection with the matter. The bond-
selling co. naturally wants to hand over
the smallest amount it considers neces-
sary, while the realisation (bondholders’)
co. wants the highest amount considered
reasonable in the circumstances. If, after
hearing expert evidence, the amount de-
cided upon by the commission lies be-
tween the maximum which the bond-sell-
ing co. is prepared to pay and the mini-
mum the realisation co. is prepared to
accept, then the provisional compounding
agreement will become binding on both
parties at the figure awarded. If agree-
ment is not reached, the bond-selling co.
will proceed to carry out its original con-
tract.
The following table shows the financial
position of the bond-selling co.:
1935. 1936. 1937.
Paid capital .. .. £197,536 £197,536 £197,536
Sundry creditors, etc... 89,466 139,659 120,607
Land and buildings .. 16,644 25,535 26,594
Plant, etc. . . . . 16,698 17,381 18,113
Investments and cash . . 600,622 613,757 587,101
Bondholders’ balances. . 142,574 160,235 102,783
Other book debts . . 64,185 87.520 191,973
Trustees 567,663 595,420 595,178
At the end of March assets aggregated
£1,521,741 in the books. The amount
coming to sundry creditors, including
provision for taxation, was £120,607, leay-
ing £1,401,134 in net tangibles, out of
which the co. has to pay maintenance
costs, etc. The fully-paid £1 shares
appear to be worth consideration at 38s.
each.
Berlei, Ltd.
, Dividends ,
Net Pref. To Re- Re-
June. Profit. 8 p.c. Old. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1927.. 16,332 2635 10 p.c. = 12,265 1432 25 048
1928.. 17,165 2635 10 „ „ 12,382 2148 28,096
1929.. 16.595 2635 10 „ „ 12,479 1481 29,577
1930.. 13,064 3712 7} „ „ 9,361 - 29,568
U.S.A. rights sold; intangibles reduced.
£1965 31,533
1931.. 17,629 4000 7J p.c. = 9,361 4268 35,801
Unexplained additions to reserves, £2300.. 38,101
1932.. 15,650 4000 8 p.c. = 9,985 1665 39,766
Unexplained reductions, £2300 .. .. 37,466
1933.. 14,675 4000 8 p.c. =10,352 323 37,789
Unexplained additions to reserves, £1500.. 39,289
1934.. 19,645 4000 8 p.c. =11,005 4640 43,929
1935.. 19,245 4000 8 „ ~ 11,005 4240 48,169
Bonus scrip M.L. subsidiary, £2560 .. 50,729
1936.. 25,182 4000 10 p.c. =13,756 7426 58,155
1937.. 25,463 4000 10 „ ~ 13,756 7707 65,862
This co. is an example of the proper
use of the tariff in fostering the growth
of Australian industry. It set up in Syd-
ney about 27 years ago. The turning-point
came about 10 years back, when standard
types of garments were evolved and a
mechanical type indicator was devised,
enabling the co. and distributors of its
products to offer better service. Mean-
while, improvements in operating and
distributing methods lowered costs, sell-
ing prices were reduced, and the co. now
enjoys a lion’s share of the corset trade
in Australia and Maoriland. Another
subsidiary, which has not yet contri-
buted to the pool, set up a factory at
Slough (Eng.). Also, during the'last term,
the parent extended its business to S.
Africa and, in a smaller way, to southern
Asia.
The fact that shareholders received
regular divs. averaging 8.7 p.c. over the
last decade, the lowest being 7\ p.c.,
despite slump, suggests that the bulk of
the business is fairly well anchored. With
the improvement in conditions generally,
sales expanded, though the upward trend
flattened out last year, when there was
little change in declared net earnings.
After striking off £lOl7 for depreciation,
handing the staff £2366 (up £669) in
profit-sharing divs. and the prefs. their
£4OOO, enough remained to show 15.2 p.c.
on ord. capital as against 15.1, 11, 11.3,
8.2, 8.7, 10.9 and 7.4 p.c. back to 1930.
The div. was kept at 10 p.c.
The experience of the Victorian off-
shoot has been similar to that of the
parent. Earnings of the Maoriland sub-
sidiary, which pays \l\ p.c., continued to
increase. The English co. made a small
loss last year.' It has just built itself
a new factory, and reports continued in-
crease in sales. Shareholders’ prospects
partly depend upon how this venture and
the extension of business to Africa and
southern Asia pan out. The holding in
the Maoriland associate appears at
market price, £28,125 ; in the other two
combined the share interest figures at
valuation, £60,918, and £39,237 had been
advanced to the pair on current account
as well.
The position as balance-sheet figures
show it compares as follows:
. 1933. 1935. 1936. 1937.
Paid capital. . £189,824 £190,057 £190,057 £190,057
Overdraft .. 12,474
Sundry creditors 6,431 9,571 33,576 19.238
Freeholds . . 32,910* 60,863 60,863 62,456
Plant . . 11,182 10,563 10,052 9.884
Investments!. . 53,174 80,383 82,943 89,043
Stocks '.. 87,517 58,848 78,520 71,105
Book debts . . 48,426 34.680 54,550 61,869
Cash, etc. . . 8,194 9,961 5,112 2,149
* Less mortgage. f Shares in subsidiaries.
Last year’s growth of £1593 in the book
value of freeholds reflects the installa-
tion of a Grinnell fire sprinkler system.
To clip £14,338 off the amount coming
(Continued on page 24.)


M
v :.x. £*£
m
. <
B'f
; ,
- * ' *"
Uf
:
«MW ■“" **!
-!• r s' f t
ir
mi i
TiT
, :.4
* s
8,500 BLASS BRICKS
flood this modern factory with
DAYLIGHT!
(L e ft): Exterior view of new factory and offices of Amalgamated Drug and Cosmetic
C°rp. Pty. Ltd?, at Pyrmont, Sydney. Over 8,500 “Agee” Glass Bricks were used in this
butldtng. Architect, H. O. Woodhouse, A.R.1.8.A. Builders, Hutcherson Bros., Sydney.
(Below): Interior view, showing panel of glass bricks 86 feet long by 8 feet 6 inches high.
Note the soft diffused light. Shadows are caused by scaffolding.
“W ALLS 0F UGHT ” are risin §'
V V everywhere! The ever-increasing
use of “Agee” Glass Bricks —most modern,
most versatile of all constructional units—
is ushering in an era of new beauty in home,
office, shop, service station, hospital, ware-
house, workroom and factory architecture.
y see ” Hoiiow Glass Brick. The new factory shown above incorporates
Size 6h inches square by 4 . ~ . . 1 • i
inches thick. the largest single section of glass brick wall
yet erected in Australia, an expanse of glass, 86 feet long by 8
feet 6 inches high, which floods the interior of the building with
soft, diffused daylight. Compute this in terms of better working
conditions, and the enormous savings on artificial lighting and
you will see at once that Glass Bricks solve one of the major
problems of industry. The same improvements and economies
are effected in home design, too, where in addition Glass Bricks
contribute so much to the interior and exterior beauty.
m
GLASS BRICKS MAKE STRIKING NIGHT SIGNS
Service Station, at Hobart, Tasmania.
Architect: Eric Round, F.I.A.A. (London), A.R.A.I.A.
Builder: T. W. Holmes.
“Agee” Glass Bricks combine advantages available in no other
building material. They are translucent, but not transparent.
They transmit as much as 78.5% of the light falling on their exterior
surfaces, and diffuse it so that no sun-spots or glare affect the eyes.-
They do not allow the flow of heat, are sound deadening, moisture
and gas proof and impervious to the action of acids or the attacks
D
of vermin. With glass bricks no plastering, painting or papering is
necessary on either interior or exterior surfaces. The bricks are
exceptionally strong but light in weight, and lay up quickly in the
same manner as other masonry units.
Be sure that you give consideration to “Agee” Glass Bricks before
erecting a new building or remodelling and modernising an
old one.
GLASS BRICKS ARE SIMPLE TO ERECT
i
• - ;
mm
:
n n
‘ 1 ■
H
If
H B
n
111
HBHBB
Laying up glass bricks during
the construction of the factory
pictured above. “Agee” Glass
Bricks are light, easily handled
and lay in the same way as
other masonry units.
—* POST THIS COUPON
AUSTRALIAN WINDOW GLASS PTY. LTD.
Euston Road, Alexandria, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please .send me post free and without obligation a copy of your
illustrated brochure “Walls of Light”.
Name
Address .
Occupation
8.18/8/37
A UST HA LI A N WINDOW CLASS PTY. LTD.
INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA , \
EUSTON ROAD ALEXANDRIA N.S.W. TELEPHONE L 3 553 (8 LINES)


MINERAL DEVELOPMENTS
(FIJI), LTD.
Assayers, Mine Managers and Geologists:
Mining properties reported upon.
Diamond Drilling Contracts Undertaken.
’Phones: 8W5260.
84439.
19 O’Connell Street,
SYDNEY.
The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Incorporated in South Australia with Limited Liability.
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, VV.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE' 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Capital Authorised .. ..£1,250,000
Capital Issued .. .. 1,250,000
Capital Paid Up .. .. .. £1,250,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 1,000,000
(Used partly in business and partly
in Government and approved
Securities.)
Reserve Liability of Shareholders ..£1,250,000
Also 107 Branches and Agencies in S'outh Australia.
London Officr: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.3.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad
collected and proceeds remitted. All usual
banking business transacted.
INVENTORS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 422
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
* * * *
AUSTRALASIAN timberlands and plantation
valuation surveys, milling plants, certification of
shipments. L. ' MACINTOSH ELLIS, B.Sc. (late
Director State Forest Service, New Zealand), Consult-
ing Forest Engineer, 8 Bond Street, Sydney.— Advt.
$ ❖ *
METALS. —If you want to sell Ores, Metals, Strap,
or buy Refined Tin, Antimony, Solders, Type Metals,
Bearing Metals and other Alloys, try O. T.
LEMPRIERE & CO. PTY., LTD., Bowden Street,
Alexandria, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
“CLIMAX” Air Tools are quicker and better.
William Adams and Company, Limited, 175 Clarence
Street, Sydney, agents for “CLIMAX” Rock Drills,
Riveting Hammers, Chipping and Caulking Hammers,
etc. Write to us for particulars. — Advt.
Public Notice.
CORESTRY BONDS.—I pay up to £5 more
r per bond than other buyers for RZ. Per-
petual Forests Bonds. —R. F. CORMACK, 440
Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
OPERATING RESULTS OF TIN PRODUCING COMPANIES
UNDER THE MANAGEMENT OF
ANGLO-ORIENTAL MINING CORPORATION LTD.
For the Quarter ended 30th June, 1937.
Company.
v 7
Kuala Kampar Tin Fields, Ltd.
Kampong Lanjut Tin Dredging, L
Kramat Tin Dredging, Ltd. . .
Malim Nawar Tin, Ltd.
Rawang Tin Fields, Ltd.
Rawang Concessions, Ltd. . .
Larut Tin Fields, Ltd
Jelapang Tin Dredging, Ltd.
Kundang Tin Dredging, Ltd.
Net
Operating Profit^
£134,944
32,638
35,463
27,873
1,624
28,585
31,916
26,517
20,232
694
NOTE. —All figures are expressed in English sterling
to trade creditors the board went to its
bankers for £12,474, which suggests that
trade discounts will more than offset bank
interest. Stocks were down £7415 and
debtors’ balances up £7319. Including
stocks but not investments, the more or
less liquid surplus (£103,411) was £1195
less than at the previous balance.
The market prices the 8 p.c. cum. prefs.
at 315., at which figure the return is 5.1
p.c. The fully-paid pound ords. at 40s.
yield 5 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis. On
the same basis the contribs. (paid to 10s.
each) give a satisfactory immediate re-
turn of 4.7 p.c., with possibilities. The
net tangible cover is £5 2s. 4d. prefs. and
295. 7d. per sound of paid-up ord. capital.
After writing £1767 off development
expenditure, Mt. Kasi (Fiji) records a
loss of £2795 for the 12 months to Dec.
31 last. Milling performances since
regular production commenced on Aug.
1, 1935, compare as follows:
Milled, Gold, Dwt., Working Net
Dec., Tons. Oz. Ton. Costs. Loss.
1935.. 5,337 4.93 41/8 £3311
1936.. 14,137 4024 5.69 39/6 2795
1937*. 16,652 3530 4.24
* 28 weeks.
Thanks to increased output and recon-
struction of the plant, costs have been
cut back £1 or so a ton since the close
of accounts —further reduction should be
possible as tonnage is stepped up—and
the board reports a “substantial” profit
for the first half of the current term.
Monthly returns, however, show that the
saving in costs has been bitten into
by a slip of in recoveries.
Ore reserves are now put at 110,000 tons,
averaging sdwt. to 6dwt., as against a
similar quantity assaying 6.4dwt. 12
months ago, and “very conservative esti-
mates” of 120,000 tons of lldwt. ore,
with indications of a “further greatly
increased tonnage,” a year before that,
when the 35.-paid shares ran up to 255. in
the market; they stood at 6s. last week-
end. Proved for 1500 ft. and averaging
25ft. in width in the opencut (450 ft.),
the Kasi lode occurs as a replacement
zone of sheared and weathered andesite,
the gold being associated with barytes.
The ore is banded, high- and low-grade
stuff alternating. There is a large mineral-
ised ash and breccia bed at the north end
of the property which should be cheap to
treat if values are right. Prospects
largely depend on the results of future
development underground, at present
hampered by a shortage of skilled labor.
At Dec. 31 the co. held £1961 in cash
and owed £6978. It then held 40,000 ss.
f.-ps. in Kasi Development, sponsored in
1935 to take over the balance of, the
parent’s prospecting rights.
* * * *
For the 12 months to the end of April,
Sandy Creek Gold Sluicing, operating on
the right bank of the Bulolo, about six
miles from Wau (New Guinea), treated
116,518 c.y. for 27100 z. gold, which
realised £20,165, or 3s. 5.52 d. per yard.
Sundry income brought in another £l2.
Operating costs, including royalties, etc.,
amounted to £10,238, or Is. 7.87 d. per
yard. After charging up administrative
exes. (£1395) and writing off £3328 for
depreciation, etc., a profit of £5216 re-
mained, equal to 2.01 d. per f.-p. 2s. 6d.
share. These returns are from No. 1
elevating plant (capacity 11,000 c.y.
monthly) on Sandy Creek, and from box-
ing operations in Poverty and Upper
Sandy creeks. Since the close of ac-
counts, a second plant has been installed
on Poverty Creek, and a small nozzle will
be used on Upper Sandy Creek, pro-
vided returns there continue to be satis-
factory. Prospects of the co. reaching
the dividend list after the new plants get
into full swing are encouraging. The
future of the scrip depends largely upon
what happens in connection with the big
breccia deposit between Sandy and
Poverty creeks, about which something
is to be said at the annual meeting next
week. When the books closed, there
were floating assets totalling £6839 to
meet outside liabilities of £3671. The
property figured at £58,993, and build-
ings, plant, etc., £15,955. The market
prices the scrip at 2s. 2d.
H* H* H*
Kaneiri Gold Dredging, one of the
Pratten interests, expects to commence
digging its Tucker Flat area, Kaneiri
(M.L.), by the middle of 1938. Turning
over 400,000 c.y. monthly, there is about
Uj years’ work (55,000,000 c.y., averag-
ing 9.3 d.) measured up ; there is an addi-
tional 197 acres of wash outside the
selected area. Costs are expected to
be something below 3d. per yard,
on which basis net annual earnings
should approximate £126,000 (Bs. sd. per
share) with gold at £NZ6 an ounce —the
difference between that figure and the
present price is expected to cover taxa-
tion, etc. Values are found in coarse
gravels, free from clay and dead timber,
dredging depth averaging 73ft. ; recovery
presents no problems. At balance date
the co. had expended £12,972 on its
dredge; property figured for £48,106,
debtors £13,540, cash, etc., £23,329. The
p. and 1. debit was £5301. Issued capital
is £205,000 in 200,000 £1 ords., on which
there is 10s. still to come, and 100,000 Is.
deferreds (taken by the promoters for
cash). As in the case of Arahura, the
dredge is being constructed in the Gov-
ernment workshops; a contract for
the supply of power has been placed
with t l,e * Public Works nepartrr"t.
Out of the same staole as
Arahura Gold Dredging also hopes to
commence active operations next year.
The co. paid £50,861 for 855 acres of
gold-bearing wash in the Arahura Valley,
near Hokitika (M.L.). With gold at
£NZ6 an ounce, the selected area (371|
acres, containing million c.y.) has
been bored to average 9|d. On a monthly
turnover of 400,000 c.y. and with costs
at 3d., annual working profits of £135,000
over 10 years are indicated. That ex-
cludes a substantial yardage of lower-
grade dirt which may later be turned to
profitable account. The deposits com-
prise coarse gravels, not particularly
bouldery and apparently free from buried
timber, the gold being easily recoverable
by amalgamation. At March 31 expen-
diture had exceeded receipts by £4463.
Cash resources then amounted to £35,969,
and £11,158 had been spent on the dredge,
while outside indebtedness totalled £3755.
.Public is interested in the 200,000 £1
ords. called to 10s. at date of balance ;
100,000 Is. deferreds are also issued.
$ - * $ *
The Federal Petroleum Oil Search Act
of 1936 has given a fresh impetus to the
hunt for oil in Australia and New
Guinea. In this way the Government
has made available £250,000 to be ad-
vanced to approved organisations on a
£ for £ basis to assist drilling for oil and
natural gas. Now comes the announce-
ment that the Federal Government has
ordered in Britain a complete deep-drill-
ing unit at a cost of approximately
£9OOO. The declared intention is to hire
this equipment, on recommendation of
the oil search committee, to any co.
striking oil in large quantities. The Gov-
ernment also intends to buy two scout
drilling plants, capable of penetrating from
3000 ft. to 4000 ft., to be hired out on
recommendation of the committee. Dr.
Wade, a member of the oil advisory
committee, says the six-year-old bore-
hole on Roma Blocks area, about 10
miles nor’-east of Roma (Q.), has the
characteristics of an “edge” well, and
that the most important task at the
moment is to determine structural con-
ditions existing in the area. If these are
favorable, deep drilling is recommended.
❖ # He sk
According to Westralian Minister for
Mines Munsie, Brasserts, Ltd., has
already spent £lOO,OOO or thereabouts on
its iron-ore lease at Yampi Sound, and
is still spending at the rate of about
£12,000 monthly on machinery and pre-
paratory work. The co., which is Lon-
don-controlled, has a contract for supply
of approximately a million tons of ore
annually to Japan. A. Montgomery, for-
merly State mining engineer, estimated
that there was 97,300,000 tons of high-
grade irpn ore above water level at
Yampi. There have lately been sugges-
tions that export of this ore should be
prohibited. In September last the Prime
Minister said that development of the
deposit was primarily a matter for the
Westralian Government, and that the
Federal Government felt no more justi-
fied in prohibiting the export of iron ore
to Japan than the export of wool.
afc He * *
Having abandoned its Wombola and
Croesus Prop, tributes, from which
4.64dwt. ore was taken last year, South
Kalgurli is now treating more higher-
grade stone from its own leases, and,
helped by installation of a fine-grinding
unit, returns (545. 2d. a ton) have shown
a lift of 3s. or so for the first four months
of the current term. On a slightly bigger
throughput (40,920 tons), average costs,
have been a few pence below last term’s
mean 40s. 6d., though the figure jumped
to 455. for July. After charging develop-
ment, a mine profit of £16,700 stg. has
been cleared for the four months to
the end of July, as against £26,169 net
for the year to March. There is 194,000
tons of 5.75dwt. ore blocked out, but
values are showing a tendency to ease at
depth ; probable tonnage (84,000) is ex-
pected to average 5.63dwt. On the
advice of Dr. Moss, who recently ex-
amined the property, the co. will drill its
Hainault lease in the hope of stabbing
fresh ore-bodies, besides further explor-
ing the Lake View, El Oro and Australia
lode channels.
* * * *
For the June quarter of 1937, Lake
View and Star treated 149,287 tons of
ore and 184,023 tons of tailings for
£333,577. Including development, exes,
took £198,973, leaving a surplus of
£134,604. : Special development absorbed
£12,525, and plant and machinery
£10,403. At the 800 ft. level, Chaffers’
east lode was exposed for a length of
221 ft., width 54 inches, values averaging
B.9dwt. During the quarter, 3471 ft. of
drilling was completed the hole on the
1767 ft. level at the north end of the
Horseshoe disclosed continuation of No.
2 lode.
* * * *
From the beginning of April to July 31,
Gold Mines of Kalgoorlie crushed 6246
tons of ore for gold worth £42,140, re-
coveries averaging 15.4dwt. London-
backed, the co. acquired at the end of
1934 considered has-beens in the old
Iron Duke and Oroya and Australia
groups at Kalgoorlie (W.A.), together with
a chain of leases largely prospected only
on the surface—in all, 453 acres. Recent
developments on the Iron Duke and
Oroya have been heartening. Buyers
are offering 7s. 9d. for the 10s. shares ;
they are difficult to obtain, although
1,200,000 are issued.
* * * *
The manager of Edjudina Consoli-
dated, a London co. opening up the
Neta and other mines at Edjudina
(W.A.), estimates that there is 215,000
tons of partly developed ore, value
8.17dwt., with a probable 62,000 tons,
averaging 7.6dwt., over and above that.
Estimated mining and treatment costs
are 30s. a ton, leaving a profit of 275.
The £90,000-development programme
allows for sinking the Neta and Gawler
shafts to 600 ft., and the Senate and Neta
Junction shafts to 400 ft.
* * * *
The Westralian Mines Department has
made the services of Spencer Compton
available to the First Hit, Lady Shenton
and Spargo’s Reward cos. for about 17
months to carry out geological and other
technical investigations. At Spargo’s
Reward, he will act as manager during
erection of the main treatment plant and
Huntingdon mills, which will handle the
oxidised ore on the property.
* * * *
Australia’s gold output for the year to
June 30 was valued at £11,219,313 (up
£2,024,122), equal to about half the cost
of servicing our overseas debt. Westralia
was responsible for 72.3 p.c. of the total,
as against 72.6 p.c. for the previous year.
The value of production in the various
States compares as follows:
1935-36. 1937-37.
New S'outh Wales . . . . 11487,847 £590,162
Victoria . . .. • • 848,099 1,180,880
Queensland . . . . .. 932,629 1,022,949
South Australia . . . . 72,876 62,836
Western Australia . . .. 6,077,567 8,115,998
Tasmania . . . . • • 99,573 172,284
North Australia .. •• 76,001 74,204
Total £9,195,191 £11,219,319
Total June output showed an increase
of 3 p.c. over the previous month’s figure,
and 5 p.c. over the figure for June,
1936. Victoria has advanced to second
on the list, and looks like remaining
there, Queensland having fallen back to
third place.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
J.C.W.: (1) The transaction is a capital one
and not subject to either Federal or State tax.
(2) The shares allotted to A’s estate would fall
into and form part of the corpus of estate....
SJ.C.: (1) Shares not listed on ’Change. Write
secretary; he may be able to find a buyer for
you. (2) Recent balance-sheet figures not broad-
cast, but outlook generally not bright... .J.J.D.:
C. 8.5., Morris Hedstrom, Walter Reid and
Q.M.E. are worth consideration... .D.W.: If
safety of capital is important, keep out
A.D.D.: (1) No record. (2) Has able manage-
ment and strong backing, but it is a new ven-
ture, and some initial difficulties may have to
be overcome... .8.P.: Doubtful; co. will have
to fight hard to become established... .Clayton :
(1) No market for Tanami scrip; no recent
news. (2) Watut Co. trying to preserve
assets, but value of the undertaking is
difficult to gauge. (3) Mineral Developments
(Fiji), Ltd., has recently finished boring a
big low-grade property at Forests Reefs, near
Orange (N.S.W.), and "a full report will shortly
be published. (4) Might be worth holding for
rights that accrue from any new floats. (5)
Most Boulder Perseverance shares are held in
London. The market has had several dis-
appointments, but the outlook is interesting.
(6) Don’t think so C.R.W.: Our records
don’t go back far enough.


SMOKE-OH!
“The first fine careless rupture”....
—Melbourne "Herald.”
Perhaps Tennyson would have con-
sidered it an improvement.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Blondes always suffer more than brunettes
from influenza,” says a doctor.
Evidently germs are gentlemen.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“With a face strained and white, he thumped
the table.”—“ Sunday Sun.”
Very careless, some people, about
what they do with their faces.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Residents of Kokopo state that the town
has been given a tremendous fillip in business
by the refugees. One establishment took £lOO
in a day from the sale of liquor.”
—“ S. M. Herald.”
Sounds more like a tremendous fill-up.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Public Hero No. 1.
“American, middle-aged, means, own car,
business, fond motoring, swimming, would like
company of healthy refined women, fond out-
doors. View above.” — Matrimonial advt.
That’s one thing you’ve got to admire
about these Yanks—they always do
things on the grand scale.
Whether he intends to marry ’em all
at once and take a risk on a bigamy
committal, or one after another in the
prevailing fashion of his country, remains
an intriguing point.
Anyway, it looks as if he’ll need to
trade in his car for a double-decker bus ;
that is, unless the business he runs hap-
pens to be a fleet of taxis.
And will he have any means left by
the time that company get through with
him?
Sez him!
Zake.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Nowadays the road of life frequently
ends at an intersection.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Those who are looking for night life during
the sesqui-centenary celebrations won’t be able
to go far wfong.”
— N.S.W. Minister Dunningham.
Never a truer word spoken!
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Latest restriction at Hotel Kurrajong, Can-
berra, is that if public service guests have
sweets with their dinner they can’t have jam.”
—News item.
It must be the ones who don’t stay
at the hotel who get the plums, enjoy
the sweets of office and put on a ton
of jam.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“The ‘Sun’s’ unrivalled OVERSEAS CABLE
SERVICES, which chronicle the latest and
fullest world news, even before it appears in
its country of origin.”
—Sydney “Sun,” applauding itself.
That’s nothing! Some daily papers
chronicle the latest and fullest world
news even before it happens.
Crook Luck.
“Counterfeit money has been found in some
cases to contain much more silver than the
official coinage by the Royal Mint.” — "Sun.”
Now that’s what I call stiffness. But
there’s no doubt some conscientious,
hard-working chaps are cursed with a
lot of bad luck.
Take the sad case of “Spider”
McWallop, for instance. One of the
best light-fingered lads in the game, he
had, disguised, eluded the racecourse
demons at a big meeting, having gone
there with the honest object of having
one big bet on a horse he was told about
and departing straight after the race.
Getting on at long odds, he won over
£2OO, but as he was collecting he noticed
a big, gawky cove pull out a beautiful
watch. “Spider’s” fingers began to itch.
It took him just ten seconds to “lift” it,
but as he was putting it in his pocket an
eagle-eyed detective dashed across and
grabbed him. As they walked to the de-
tective’s room the gawky cove, evidently
noticing how “Spider’s” inside vest pocket
bulged, took a shot in the dark and told
the detective he’d also lost his winnings,
which he thought were between £l5O and
£2OO. Poor “Spider’s” rage at seeing his
own cash go west was pitiful to see. No
wonder he’s the sourest and most in-
tractable prisoner in Goulburn gaol.
Then there was “Buster” Mopen, a
“jelly” expert and ace safeblower. He
“Tommy’s so excited — he’s never been on a submarine before.”
hit on the idea of renting the vacant
premises next to an old suburban bank
and burrowing under the floor to gain
entrance. He had to quarry all through
the night, and, as he struck ironstone
pretty well all the way, it took him
several weeks. What with working like a
nigger all night and having to spend the
day in sharpening his blunted tools,
“Buster” was a nervous and physical, as
well as a financial, wreck by the time he
eventually got through at 5 a.m. one
morning.
Two or three hours later demolishers,
arriving to knock the old bank down,
found “Buster” where he had collapsed.
The bank had moved the previous
afternoon while he was away at a con-
struction job pinching some “jelly”' to
bust the safe with!
Nipper.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“General Yang has 27 wives.” — News item.
Then he’ll be used to warfare.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Court order needed to prove film actress’s
marriage.”
Film actresses cannot be expected to
remember all their marriages.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“The reappearance of women soldiers was
a feature of the battle for Brunete, near
Madrid.”
It makes for real fighting when a
woman soldier finds her neighbor wearing
the same style of hat and uniform.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“He was a good artist but inclined to idle-
ness His studio was sold up.” -
He took his ease ; the bailiff took his
easel.
“The telephone has killed the love-letter.”
Fully Qualified.
“Wanted. Experienced worsted twister.”
— “S.M.H.”
Dear Sir,—It is with great pleasure that
I apply for this position, as I feel sure
that I can give you every satisfaction so
far as twisting is concerned, having been
a member of six different political parties
since last century, whilst continuously
representing the same constituency on
every ticket. I admit that there have been
other good performances in my line,
but I think mine will take some beating.
I am also fully qualified for the
worsted part of it. Pre-selected by both
parties, I have been worsted by six
Independents. As a worsted twistbr I
stand alone.
Faithfully yours,
Con Corkscrew.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“The Telephone Department receives many
requests that are not without humor.”
— “S. M. Herald.”
And the public receives replies that
are.
4* 4* 4* 4*
They drain the last drop out of a
punter in the betting wring.
Zoology.
His mother used to call him her “little
lamb,” but he was really a calf, always
bellowing for something. At school he
was looked upon as a goat, and the
teacher, in exasperation, said that he was
as stupid as a sheep. As he grew up he
developed a strong streak of pigheaded-
ness, and became as obstinate as a mule
—one of those asses with whom one.
can’t argue. But he always had a hide
like a rhinoceros, so they made him a
politician. Now he feels perfectly at his
ease when they call him a cow. And
the crocodile tears he sheds!
R. W. D.
4* 4* + 4*
“Japanese and Chinese troops have four
battles and four truces in the one day.”
The right tune for their regimental
bands would seem to be “The Wedding
March.”
4• 4* 4* 4*
“One of Hollywood’s best-paid men is a
‘stunt’ player who specialises in falling down-
stairs realistically.”
Well, that’s one way of getting to the
top.
4* 4* 4* 4"
“Women are becoming more feminine.”
— Woman’s paper.
They’re only half the men they used
to be!
4* 4* 4* 4*
Customs and Inhabitants of Our
Great Outback.
In Australia sheep are kept, not on
ranches, but on stations. This refers, of
course, only to what are known as “big
holdings.” Smaller herds of sheep have
to be accommodated at unattended plat-
forms.
Economic reasons dictate this peculiar
practice. As most Australian outback
stations have usually only about one
train a month the station staff, instead of
wasting their time in repolishing the
brass knob of the stationmaster’s door in
nervous anticipation of a Commissioner’s
tour, have to see that the sheep do not
stray on to the permanent way. They
also attack flies. At allotted times dur-
ing the day they yodel together all the
sheep in the vicinity and kill all the flies
on the wool.
In the extreme heat of midsummer,
when hordes of blowflies burrow be-
tween the folds of the wool to keep cool,
the station staff dispense with swat-
ters and catch the flies by hand. The
Government pays a handsome bonus on
all thus caught, and it is a common sight
to see a porter staggering to the weigh-
bridge with four kerosene-tins of the de-
funct pests.
As the responsibility of the station-
master and his staff ceases at the perma-
nent way, the rest of the station is
guarded by boundary riders. Experl
cyclists, these men are distinguished bj)
sombreros, scarlet lumber-jackets, Well-
ington boots and tartan kilts. The last
item of raiment has been found more
suitable for bicycle riding up and down
the gullies and arroyos than the woollen
pants affected by musterers, shearers, tar-
boys, etc. ; kilts also are worn with the
alternative purpose of scaring away any
hostile natives that may be encountered,
as the untamed savages in Australia’s
“dead-heart” sheep country
always associate kilts with bag-
pipes, from which “debil-debil”
instruments they incontinently
fly.
To while away the monoton-
ous hours of riding up and
down the vermin-proof fences
boundary riders sing aboriginal
love songs, and the sweet,
yearning melodies can be heard
floating over the vast prairies
on still evenings. They accom-
pany themselves on ukeleles,
banjos or guitars, according to
whichever instrument each
rider favors, and so skilful are
they that they can even ride
over anthills or fallen scrub
(trees from which scrubbing
brushes are made) without inter-
rupting a tune. Nowadays,
however, most stations of any
importance have concrete paths
laid down alongside the fences
for the boundary rider’s con-
venience.
As the meshing of a vermin-
proof fence is too large to pre-
vent the vermin (ticks, fleas,
“chats,” etc.) from hopping
through, the boundary rider’s
job is to spray the fence with insect-
powder from a drum which he has slung
around his neck.
As might be expected of a nation on
which gambling has such a tremendous
hold, sheep races are common sights at
these stations. The handicapper of these
events is called a “jackeroo,” and the
many close finishes that mark them are
tributes to his uncanny skill. Under the
union rules a jackeroo is allowed several
hours daily from his usual work of re-
stringing boundary riders’ instruments to
study form and pedigree.
As fortunes are often won and lost by
the. wild and lawless shearers at these
races, station-owners appoint a high
official who is known as a “gun” shearer.
Specially selected because of his light-
ning quickness on the draw, his is no
enviable task in enforcing, with a brace
of sawn-off shotguns, settlement of dis-
puted bets among these violent men.
Another quaint occupation at these
sheep stations is that of “dag-picker.”
Peculiar to Australian usage, the term
“dag” is an abbreviated combination of
the words “doer” and “wag,” both mean-
ing a funny fellow. As the station is
often some hundreds of miles away from
civilisation the dag-picker’s job is to
select and train a troupe of comic enter-
tainers from among the ranks of
shearers, cooks, overseers, etc., and these
give performances nightly at which the
owner and his family are always hon-
ored guests.
Two common expressions heard on
Australian sheep stations are the “long
blow” and the “short blow.” The former,
a loud and lengthy blast on the cook-
house siren, denotes that a major meal
is awaiting the hungry shearers. The
shorter blast is for “smoke-oh,” a short
break allowed for the men to get their
bets set for the day’s tally.
S. W. K.
Cause and Effect.
“A doctor has advanced the theory that tight
corsets are not deleterious to health, but actu-
ally tend to make the blood stay in the head,
thus ensuring greater mental activity.”
That garment, classified as a “founda-
tion,”
Which, by the very nature of it, serves
To mould milady’s cute configuration
And helps to cultivate her classic
curves
May now (it has a medico’s endorsement )
Be worn as tight as she can stand the
strain ;
Its sole effect will merely be enforce-
ment
Of blood into the brain.
Perhaps the risks might be inconsequen-
tial,
And inconvenience of the tightened
clasp
Of cords and whalebone (which are so
essential)
Be limited to breaths that wheeze and
gasp.
But many a husband, doing the com-
pressing,
May wonder, as he sees the mounting
blood
Flowing into his spouse’s dial when
dressing,
If there’s a brain to flood !
BO.
We needn’t look back with regret to the
age
When lovers’ sweet nothings filled page
after page;
It’s true that the ’phone takes the place
of the pen,
But the pair understand, just as sweet-
hearts did then,
While the methods they use come to much
the same thing —
For didn’t old grandpa give grandma a
ring ?
C. G. C. C.


Edwards, Dunlop Contribs.
At 34s. last week, Edwards,
Dunlop 13s. 4d.-paids could be
bought to yield £4 6s. per cent,
after the 10s. call-p/us-premium is
paid on Oct. 31. That is on a 9\
p.c. div. basis ; there is reason to
believe that 10 p.c. will be reached
before long. Visible net tangibles
amount to about 36s. 9d. for every
£1 of paid capital, and there is
inner strength. If the market for
the fully-paids keeps .steady at last
week’s 47s. (it has been over 50s.),
there will be a 3s. capital profit on
the contribs. over the next two
and a half months.
f.VJLVf
mm nwff
A Much Coveted Honour
The Institute of Hygiene (Incorporated by Royal Charter)
London, have awarded Black and White Virginia Cigarettes
a Diploma of Purity, Quality and Merit.
This greatly coveted honour is, indeed, a fine recognition
of their outstanding quality and perfection and, in itself,
furnishes yet another good reason why Black and White
are so much better. *
BLack and White
VIRGINIA
CIGARETTE S
CORK TIPPED DR PLAIN
BW. 153.24
Business.Rollery,Etc.
About Credit and About
In an article by Federal Treasurer
Casey on the gold-price problem, pub-
lished in some capital cities last week, it
was declared that,
If gold continues to flow into a country,
it tends to create a basis for an increasing
amount of credit inside that country—and
a volume of credit that is not necessarily
closely related to the demand for credit in
that country or to the amount of business
activity. Thus, if steps were not taken to
avoid this slow-motion inflation inside a
consistent gold-buying country, the effect
would be an involuntary expansionist one.
The idea that the acquisition of large
stocks of the inanimate yellow metal in
exchange for the credit existing in a
country, or in exchange for that coun-
try’s investments, is likely of itself to
cause inflation is somewhat elementary
—and not quite as Sherlock Holmes
meant it. Especially if Mr. Casey’s idea
is that the inflation is to spring directly
from the “increased credit base” of gold
lying in the vaults of the Bank of Eng-
land. Any such inflation would have,
to be deliberate.
It is a fact that the buying of gold and
hoarding it, as is being done in Britain
and U.S.A. at the moment, can have, an
effect opposite to that of inflation. Usually
gold is passed into the note-issue depart-
ment of a central bank, and, unless mil-
lions of notes are run off in order to
buy it, it assists no more in the creation
of credit than if the same amount of
money had been spent in buying the
rights to all the gold in the sea-water of
the Atlantic Ocean.
In other words, the influx to a country
of non-monetary gold that isn’t used to
multiply the note-issue is less inflationary
than the influx of foreign money for in-
vestment in, say, British securities. Much
of the gold that has come to Britain is,
in fact, flighty money that is less a basis
for credit expansion than ordinary cur-
rent-account deposits with trading
banks ; and bankers never feel too happy
about making advances against current
accounts.
Gold is not rushing into Britain in the
ordinary course, of trade-balance settle-
ments. There is no boom of exports
inducing the flow. Far from it. To almost
every ounce of gold there is a “come-
hither” string that has someone at the end
of it in France, Belgium, S’Africa or
whatever country it is that is depositing
money in Britain. Financial authorities
in the U.S.A. are. far from being afraid
that the inflow of gold to that country
will create a boom now. Some are con-
cerned, however, as to whether foreign
investments in the U.S.A. don’t amount
to a war-chest, and, if a European con-
flagration breaks out, as to whether a
boom won’t occur when those foreign
credits are turned into American-made
munitions. The gold itself won’t create
a boom in ordinary circumstances ; but,
if it is turned suddenly into buying-power
at the will of the foreigners who deposited
it, it most likely will.
Such a state of affairs, however, is
something far removed from the idea
that gold flowing into a country auto-
matically expands credit. There is a dif-
ference between gold that comes in in
payment of debts and metal that is sold
and the proceeds temporarily invested in
the country of sale. In the latter case the
vendor’s title has merely shifted from one
form of credit to another.
An interesting discussion on the Aus-
tralian banking commission’s views on
credit took place between some business-
men and bankers in a Sydney club last
week, chiefly around the point whether
a central bank could expand or contract
that “sovereign remedy” for trade
troubles by the hard-and-fast processes of
buying securities (and increasing trading-
bank cash resources) on the one hand, or
demanding deposits from trading banks
(and decreasing their cash holdings) on
the other. On the point of contracting
credit the smokeroom critics agreed
that the central bank might exercise a
noticeable pull; on the score of expand-
ing credit in dull times it was considered
that results would be far from automatic.
Though the commissioners recom-
mended that powers in regard to credit
control should be given to the Common-
wealth Bank, there is at least one para-,
graph in the report which suggests that
such powers may be of little practical
value.
An increase of bank loans is likely to
cause an increase in the production of
capital goods rather than consumers’
goods, and later to cause some disequili-
brium. Moreover, if money is easy to
obtain, the growth of speculative concerns
is likely to be encouraged, though their
failure may be inevitable. The probability
of results such as these is the chief reason
against undue expansion of money, for it
produces changes in the structure of pro-
duction which later will necessarily destroy
the equilibrium of the economy.
Another thing: You may thrust deposits
on trading banks, but you can’t induce
them to run the risk of making bad debts
by too-free lending unless they want to.
Three years ago, when trade was stag-
nant, the banks were flush with money
and were praying for reasonably solvent
traders to come along and ask for over-
drafts. The traders came along for
credit when they wanted to, and not just
because the money was there. Why they
came is definitely another story. •
In B. 23 /6 / ’37 it was said that the 155.-
paid ords. in Associated Pulp and Paper
looked well worth buying in view of the
rapidly-approaching production stage.
They were then at 16s. 9d., and could
be got at that figure for some time. Last
Friday the scrip took a leap of Is. 3d.
in Sydney (after previous sales at 18s.),
reaching 19s. 3d. ; 19s. 6d. was paid in
Melbourne. Full production is expected
early next year. There have been no
hitches in regard to plant-erection. As
soon as the product is right (the direc-
tors are confident) the co. should enter
a waiting and profitable market.
* * * *
Before the suggestion of Mt. Lyells at
445. was published here last week the
stock had already started climbing, a
fillip following the report of a healthier
tone in the metal markets overseas. Lyell
is something of a Cinderella among Aus-
tralian base-metal shares by reason of
the large deposits of copper in other parts
of the world that can be worked at a
lower cost. Still, at Queenstown excel-
lent work has been, and is being, done
on the point of cheaper production. One
thing in favor of Mt. Lyell’s continued
participation in reasonable prices for
copper is the fact that most of the large
African and Chilean mines are being
bought into by investors at figures which
contemplate prices for the metal well
above the low level of two years ago.
The world’s production of copper is prin-
cipally in the hands of large companies,
which are more likely to keep output at
a sane level than the motley collection
of small producers which predominate in
many other industries.
H« # % #
The day the coal dispute was settled
last week Broken Hill Prop, scrip was
decidedly weak. Sales were recorded
at 83s. 6d. in Adelaide, Melbourne
and Sydney markets were only a few
pence firmer. The day after 85s. 6d.
was paid. Under the new agree-
ment between miners and owners con-
tract workers will get a 10 p.c. lift in
pay immediately, and day-labor rates go
up 5 p.c. All-round rates are now slightly
higher than before the cuts of 1930.
* * * *
Davies, Coop ords. (B. 28 /7/ ’37) sold
at 235. last week in Melbourne.
* # * *
The big profit of Cash Orders (Amalga-
mated), equal to 22.3 p.c. on average ord.
capital, as against 22.1 p.c. in 1935-36,
failed to bring any vim into the support
for the shares. The 15 p.c. div. now goes
out in quarterly instalments, but for
various reasons cash-order scrip is
under a cloud, and at 21s. 9d. last week
the Amalgamated co.’s 12s. shares could
be bought to yield 8.2 p.c. P. and G.
Finance ords. dropped to 18s. last Thurs-
day, the lowest quote to date. The 7 p.c.
prefs. are also weak at 17s. A final div.
for the year is due this month.
:!; * * *
Recommended in B. 7/4/’37 when
around 325., the shares in Howards, Ltd.,
Brisbane motor-agents, etc;, are now
being sought by buyers at 355. The div.
was recently lifted from. 8 p.c.; to 10 p.c.
At 365., ex div., immediate yield would
be a little over £5 10s. p.c.' At that it is
a profitable income ' considering the
sound nature of the investment.
Other Brisbane stocks to get a good
word here from time to time have been
Castlemaine Perkins; and Gibson and
Howes. The brewery’s? shares went to
over 275. last week on ’Change, the high-
est quote since the last new share issue;
the sugar cb.’s scrip lifted to 345., the
biggest price paid in the co.’s history.
■ In Melbourne last week:
G. J. Coles’s profit declaration showed earn-
ings £68,549 higher at £223,400. The increase
was something near the average bonus
allowed to directors, etc., over the past few
years. The market dropped to 98s.
Australian Cement shares dropped to 31s.
9d. on Wednesday, after sales above 335. a
week or so previously. On Thursday there
was recovery to 325. 6d.,. yield being £6 3s.
p.c., as against £6 2s. p.c. available from
Kandos (Sydney) 16s. shares at Friday’s price
of 265. 3d Kandos has an Ilf p.c. greater
asset value than Australian Cement, though
for the present div. rates are the same.
Golden Plateau shares came back to 13s.
Bd. after touching 14s. Emperors attracted
less attention at 15s. 4d. Lolomas kept up,
235. 6d. being paid for about 2000 shares on
Wednesday and Thursday.
Mount Morgans weren’t in favor; 12s. was
taken towards the end of the week, with a
slight rallying afterwards. Lancefields re-
ceived a stouter support at 12s. 6d., but
Tritons were still weak at 9s. 6d.
Broken Hill Souths on Thursday at 495.
9d. were quoted rather widely with Sydney,
where 51s. was paid for late lots. On Friday
prices were in line at 51s. 6d.
Drug Houses scrip was still one of the most
depressed stocks at under 265. The Boots
bogey is still in control of the situation. The
gloom seems to be a bit' overdone. ’


_Z_ X.
iilllilfc J'
r Tr--<*
>!•:•>
«S? * <**
,7 .
f^y^Zyyy-
y^
v **
/^tf-
»s
7
.i&
The genuine experiences of Clyde battery owners are the best
advertisement for the superior qualities of Clyde batteries. Clyde
Master' Batteries alluded to in the above letter are unconditionally
guaranteed for two years. Dual separators of Clyde 'Master'
Batteries, and superior quality of the plates ensures low mileage
cost and longer life. All Clyde Batteries are fully guaranteed.
if The original from
which this genuine
letter was photo-
graphed may be seen
at the city office of
the Clyde Engineer-
ing Co., Ltd., 61-65
Wentworth Avenue
I Sydney.
,Y
BATTERIES
Used by the Royal Australian Navy, the various State
and Federal Governments and by car owners who
want value and service.
CLYDE dealers are in your district.
YDE
C. 8.2.
I
%(l
wr
m
IWUUI
M\
m
K
m
m
it
Patent.
IMPROVEMENTS IN SOLID
LUBRICATING COMPOUNDS.
THE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent No.
13921/33 is prepared to negotiate for the sale
of its rights in the above, or for the granting
of a license to make, use and vend the inven-
tion within the Commonwealth of Australia.
Particulars obtainable from Griffith, Hassel
and Griffith, Patent Attorneys, Sydney.
Missing Friends.
Re ELLEN COPE, late of 134 Franchise
Street, Wednesbury, England (late wife of
Henry Cope), deceased.
WILL CLAUDE MILLINGTON (son of
Joseph Millington), born at Kings Hill, Wed-
nesbury, Staffs, England, and late of 167 Dudley
Port, Tipton, Staffs, and last known to have
left England for Perth, Australia, about 15 years
ago, and to have resided at Bluff Point, Gerald-
ton, 12 Snowdon Street, Geraldton, and at Perth
(about seven years ago), please communicate
with ARTHUR COTTERELL, 9 The Bridge,
Walsall, England, Solicitor for the executors of
the will of the abovenamed deceased, when he-
will learn of something to his advantage.
Nouljellau the
Sunt ® FIJI
Leave the grip of winter and come
now to the genial warmth of Fiji’s
sunshine. Enjoy a memorable month
'mid palm fringed islands where a
wealth of attractions await you.
Visit these islands of enchantment.
Motor through 250 miles of tropic
grandeur - tramp, fish, swim, golf -
enjoy every moment in a never to
be forgotten holiday.
At surprisingly low cost you can
spend a month in Fiji - less than a
week’s journey from Sydney. Give
yourself a holiday away from winter
- and come now to fascinating Fiji.
isinnos o
For full information and all literature on
Fiji write
FIJI PUBLICITY BUREAU, Suva, Fiji
THOMAS COOK & SON, UNION
S.S. CO. LTD., MATSON NAVIGA-
TION CO., Sydney & Melbourne
PICKFORDS TRAVEL SERVICE Clo.
Da'gety & Co. MR. F. W. HENNINGS;
Master Builders' Exchange; 12 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, Australian Representative
of the Fiji Tourist Bureau.
The Reddaway basic-wage experiment
has affected the prosperous and struggling
alike. The prosperous are better fitted
to pass on the increase than those con-
cerns which find competition or other
factors wiping out their profits, and so
the gap between the profitable and un-
profitable business widens. The effect of
increasing costs in order to benefit one
particular section is usually null and void
so far as achievement of the aim is con-
cerned. Maoriland’s 40-hour week and
other benefactions look like turning out
to be the ill-wind that blows nobody any
good in the long run. Some manufac-
turers are already in difficulties, and their
employees will suffer later on.
* * * *
Australian Securities’ accounts and div.
(unchanged at 1\ p.c.) disappointed the
sharemarket, the boom in motor-car
sales during the term to June 30 having
led most supporters to assume that it
would be a much-improved year. Earn-
ings were 11.4 p.c. on capital, as against
11 p.c. in the preceding term, but this
year £5500 (3.5 p.c. on capital) was car-
ried to reserves for taxation and doubt-
ful debts. It has been hard to under-
stand why earnings weren’t better, be-
cause the co. had £51,443 —equal to
nearly a third of the capital—more out
in loans at June 30 than 12 months
earlier. After sales as high as 9s. 9d.
this year, sellers were asking 9s. 3d. for
the Bs. shares last week, but buyers
weren’t interested at the price.
Mutual Credits, Ltd., a recently-listed
Sydney motor and general finance con-
cern, had an excellent year to June 30.
During the term paid capital was lifted
from £24,618 to £58,644 ; old and new
money earned an average of 11.2 p.c.
for shareholders—£s7o9 altogether, after
allowing £l2OO for income tax. An 8 p.c.
div. and the writing-off of £607 share-
issue exes, left £lOl2 for reserves, now
£2333 apart from interest suspense ac-
count (£5500). In earning last year’s
profit shareholders’ funds had the help
of only £11,067 of borrowed money at
balance day. Sundry debtors (less
guarantee funds) are the principal asset
at £80,060. The co. is well-handled and
economically managed ; at 20s. 6d. the
£1 ords. are as attractive as any in the
finance group.
A N. S. Wales farmer from the out-
back has been in The Bulletin office
lately making inquiries about taxation,
particularly special income tax. Periodi-
cally, he says, representatives of both the
State and Federal departments go out
into the rural districts on what are termed
“goodwill tours,” information on the
difference between what the farmer be-
lieves he has earned and what the de-
partment says he has earned being dis-
pensed in a superior and kindly way. The
land man suggests that if these touring
oracles were done away with and a half-
dozen permanent sub-branches of the de-
partment set up in the principal country
districts far removed from Sydney, a
much bigger service would be done. He
says also that a better understanding of
both points of view—if the taxpayer has
a point of view—would arise from per-
sonal contact.
* * * *
Shares in Howard Auto Cultivator Co.
(Sydney), which reports a full order-
book, were bid up to 345. by buyers last
week, sellers asking 375. 6d. The scrip
got mention in B. 21/7/’37 when at
325. 6d.
* * * *
In London last week North Kalgurli
shares were dealt in steadily at 16s. 3d.,
ex div., equal to 20s. 4d. in Australian
currency. Sales in Adelaide and Mel-
bourne were at a couple of pence under
the 20s. Earnings in the near future are
likely to be applied more towards divs.
and less towards development.
* * * *
In a short while Mauri Bros, and
Thomson accounts will be out. The £1
shares have been as high as 755. this
year, with sales as low as 68s. during the
market setback of three months ago.
Last week inquiry carried the price up
from 70s. 6d. to 715., and at the higher
figure the yield on a 15 p.c. div. basis
would be £4 4s. p.c., not allowing for the
final div. payable in September, which
should be at least 2s. per share. In 1935-
36 26 p.c. was earned on ord. capital,
and there is reason to believe that the
1936-37 result, when published, will ex-
ceed lt is a very solid investment.
$ * $ $
Whether stories to the effect that it
was negotiating for an entry into the
Sydney newspaper field have had any
effect or not, shares in the Melbourne
“Herald” have been buoyant just re-
cently. After 695. 9d. a few days earlier,
and 655. 9d. in June, there were sales
of the ord. scrip at 725. 6d. last week,
but 70s. was taken later. Prices have
some way to climb before they reach
the 765. paid last April. Accounts
close on Sept. 30 and are presented
in November. In 1935-36 an in-
terim div. of's p.c. and a final of 7 p.c.
made 12 p.c: for the year. The interim
for 1936-37, paid in April, was 6 p.c.
Herald and Weekly Times, Ltd., is still
one of the most financially successful
newspaper proprietaries in the Common-
wealth.
* * * *
Gordon and Gotch shares keep on the
weak side. In Melbourne and Sydney
there have been several sales at 51s. 6d.,
the price suggesting that clearance of a
fair parcel of the scrip is in process. At
51s. 6d. the return obtainable is £4 14s.
p.c. on a 12 p.c. div. basis, which is
slightly under the yield expected at the
moment from first-class gas cos. Last
year’s disclosed profit was 15.8 p.c. on
ord, capital, after allowing for pref.
requirements. On the present rising
market for paper overseas —the co. is a
supplier of printing-trade requirements,
as well as a distributor of periodicals—
earnings may be expected to show a lift
in the next half. The co. was well
stocked up last balance day.
* * * *
There were dealings in Yarra Falls
f.-ps. at 40s. in Sydney last week, 395. 6d.
in Melbourne. The 5 p.c. return avail-
able is still a good one considering cur-
rent interest rates.
* * * *
Interest in Wellington Alluvials shares
was renewed last week, several thou-
sands changing hands, and a peak
price of 7s. being reached on Mon-
day (9th). A reaction followed, with a
recession to 6s. 6d. A firming was notice-
able again towards the end of the week.
Work is going well ahead at the co.’s
dredging, proposition on the Macquarie
(N.S.W.). % ‘
•** * *
At last week’s 335. market, a £4 18s p.c.
yield was to be had from ord. shares in
Australasian Paper and Pulp, joint holder,
with Cumberland Paper, of the issued
ord. capital of Australian Paper Manu-
facturers, which recently issued a million
£1 6 p.c. prefs. When all the money
from this issue becomes fully productive,
prospects of the holding cos. being able
to hand out a bit more seem bright, pro-
vided no further capital is offered direct
to the public by the operating co. Though
the yield is a shade lower at 345. 9d.,
Australasian Paper prefs. (really preferred
ords.) are worth the premium they com-
mand over the ords. by reason of the
privileges they carry—prior claim to a
minimum 8 p.c. div. and participation
with the ords. beyond that rate and in
new capital issues.


SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Tongalla, an old hunter, whose last
previous victory had almost passed out
of memory, landed the Australian
Steeplechase by virtue of superior stay-
ing ability. He jumped 29 fences and
covered 3i miles in 7min., which took
3Jsec. off the record made by Wakerife
last winter. In 1934, before wholly brush
fences were installed, Redditch set 6min.
53|sec. for the journey. His achieve-
ment outranks that of Tongalla.
Owned by J. Abrahams, a hunting
patron, who often rode him to hounds,
Tongalla in May ran third to Bermuda
and Underwood over the solid fences at
Williamstown. He finished fifth in the-
Grand National, and this brought him
into moderate demand at 10 to 1 for the
big race on Saturday, though few punters
outside of the stable followers conceded
him a chance.
Had he got round, Dress Suit probably
would have joined the ranks of past
celebrities, such as Les Paddington,
Roisel and Sir Alogy, by annexing the
Caulfield jumping double. Never at a
longer price than “threes” on the course,
the S.A. gelding had just commenced to
gather-in the leaders when he fell oppo-
site the stand in the second circuit.
According to Fullarton, his rider, the
accident was caused by Montargis taking
off in front of Dress Suit. The latter
did not get a view of the fence. He
leaped at the same moment as Montargis,
landed on the take-off side, and crashed
into the obstacle.
Dicaeum, the champion of Hunt Club
performers, would certainly have gained
a place—and might, indeed, have won—
but for straining a tendon in his near-
foreleg when disputing control with
Jehu two fences from home. Regan
then brought Tongalla along with an
overpowering run to win by five lengths
from Montargis, with Jehu four lengths
farther off. Jehu is young at the game,
and should develop into a first-class
’chaser.
Ajax, champion of his age last season,
demonstrated that he has wintered well
by taking the Chatsworth Plate, for three-
year-olds. The chestnut son of Heroic-
Medmenham is certain to firm in Mel-
bourne Cup demand, while his Derby
prospects also have been enhanced. Ajax
lost ground through swerving outwards
when the barrier rose. He did this again
at the crossing nea 1 - the six furlongs, and
altered his course for a third time as
he approached the judge’s box.
Ajax gallops as straight as a gun-
barrel at Randwick, but is invariably
difficult to control on Melbourne tracks.
A. W. Thompson and “Mr. Constable,”
who race the colt in conjunction with
E. L. Baillieu, made a special trip from
Sydney to see him perform at Caulfield.
They could not fail to be pleased at
the result. It remains to be seen whether
Ajax is a true stayer, but his brilliance
cannot be questioned.
Elliot declared 21b. over to ride
Avenger at 7st. 41b. Percy Miller’s
Pantheon colt came home most promis-
ingly to run Ajax to three-quarters of a
length. He was in receipt of exactly 2st.,
and the effort does not place Avenger
in Derby class. However, Jack Holt is
an astute trainer, and Avenger, with his
heritage of Magpie blood through
dam, may come along with leaps and
bounds in the next few months.
John Wilkes had 71b. less than Ajax
in the’ Chatsworth Plate. He forfeited
that engagement and was produced for
the second division of the St. Aubin
Welter —also run over a mile, which, by
a coincidence, was run in exactly the
same time made by Ajax. Cramped
odds (11 to 8) had to be accepted about
Ajax. A slightly better price (7 to 4)
was obtainable in the case of John
Wilkes.
“G. Ornong,” the Melbourne K.C. who
races John Wilkes, expressed doubt as
to the wisdom of asking his colt to
carry Bst. 101 b. in open company. John
Wilkes struck his colors to the Kalgoorlie
Cup winner, Vital, and Erua, with whom
M. T. McGrath is striving to win for
a M.L. patron. Three-quarters of a
length and half a neck divided them.
John Wilkes could not have lost if the
jockey, Breasley, had not been compelled
to shift his ground twice in the run to
the post. The trouble began when John
Wilkes, after hitting the front, dropped
back behind several horses at the half-
mile. He had a very bad passage from
that stage.
With The Trump, Eccles is making hay
while the sun shines. This game and
versatile little horse has a habit of
going amiss on the verge of important
engagements. Sound at present, he
simply smothered Diaphane over the
concluding furlong of the Malakoff
Stakes, scoring by a length, with Turf
Boy (rapidly improving in condition)
only a neck farther away. The Trump
was a 5-to-2 favorite. Spearflash, who
pressed him closely in the betting, shaped
badly. Golden Promise, burly in condi-
tion, but apparently sound once more,
was never in the firing line.
John Wren’s Irish-bred stallion Soltoi,
a most handsome thoroughbred, was a
2-to-l pop for the first division of the
St. Aubin Welter. He lost by two lengths
to Beau Roi (20 to 1) after staging a
finishing run which lessened the disap-
pointment of his backers. Parodier
(Heroic-Digalla), in whom J. Hackett, of
Sydney, has a half interest, was a close
third.
The Arkaringa Hurdle went to P. G.
Hay’s King’s Warden (6 to 1), who com-
fortably disposed of Dakwood, with
Equilibrium third. Favorite for the
Knowsley Steeple at 5 to 2, Tezpur was
beaten by both Sarno (7 to 1) and The
Shaughran.
Ajax and The Trump were picked by
this Page.
* * * *
Another good three-year-old, in Wel-
come, a daughter of Royal Sun and an
Irish mare called Itemise, drew attention
to herself by a sterling performance at
Moorefield. Owned by Trautwein and
raced on lease by Fred Cush, Welcome
had 9st. 21b. in a division of the Three-
year-old Handicap. In spite of the
weight she beat Joan Darling for pace
and then ran* right away from Sturdee
(4 to 1) and Aero King—thought to have
Derby possibilities—-in the straight. Del-
mestor, Gold Spark and Pharaoh fol-
lowed the place-getters. They also are
not bad. Welcome’s price was 11 to 2.
The second division went to Roginer
(3 to 1), who had the lead throughout.
She is by Rossendale-Bella Wallace.
Breeze, a nice Windbag filly, bred by the
owner, Mack Sawyer, could not handle
the going, but finished well in second
place. Saldola was third.
When three of the six furlongs had
been traversed, Deputy Ruler was three
lengths ahead of Überous (6 to 4) in their
division of the Flying Welter, and it
looked all over. However, Deputy
Ruler, who had lOst. 21b., stopped badly,
and Überous had him settled at the turn.
Old King Moab made the favorite
gallop, but Überous won by half a head,
Strathisla being a poor third.
Don Caesar, owned by a Queensland
pastoralist, W. Cannon, won the second
division with ease from Bramol and
Gold Queen. He started at 5 to 4,
though he carried a penalty for winning
at Ascot. Don Caesar is a Legionnaire
gelding, and is very smart. Fakenham’s
fourth was a promising effort.
Frank Alldritt did his brother-fielders
a good turn in the Kogarah Stakes when
Linklet (12 to 1) got up in the last stride
to beat Silver Cap and Heroina. Alan
Cooper’s St. Constant was supposed to
be a moral. He made the running, but
showed no fight when challenged and
missed a place. On performances Link-
let, Silver Cap and Heroina are only
third-raters, so exit St. Constant from
Derby calculations.
“G. Lightford” thought Jubilee Son
would develop into a useful horse after
he won a two-year-old race at Randwick.
He has disappointed many times, but
showed fair form when he won the
Moorefield Handicap, at 3 to 1, in a field
of four. Jack O’Sullivan allowed Friar’s
Switch and Televise to make the pace,
thereby getting the last run. Thus advan-
taged, Jubilee Son scored cleverly from
Televise and Friar’s Switch.
If the racing of Heroic Faith were con-
fined to Moorefield the stable and its
followers would be happier. The Heroic
horse has now won four races there.
At Rosehill he had beaten one home. In
the Rockdale Mile he was never in
danger of defeat, winning in a canter
from Wise Boy and Povertdale ; and he
started at fives in a field of six.
Jubilee Son and Heroic Faith were
Bulletin selections.
# * * *
Sydney horses taken to Brisbane for
the Exhibition races failed on Saturday.
Mohican looked nicely treated in the
Ascot Handicap—he had Bst. 81b., there
being a 7st. minimum—and was co-
favorite with King Merlin, but neither
got a place: Schoolmate (10 to 1) won
all the way. He is an aged gelding by
King’s Scholar-Primate. Young Crusader
cleared out with a big lead in the
National Plate, w.f.a., was caught and
came again,' finishing a close second to
the favorite, Brown Force (9 to 4),
Brownfelt being third. It looked as if
Brown Force’s rider, Booshand, was
kidding towards the finish ; all the same,
it was by no means a bad effort on
Young Crusader’s part. He was giving
Brown Force 31b., whereas he gets 81b.
from the old fellow in the Metropolitan
Handicap, to be run to-day, and the Ex-
hibition Handicap (Saturday) over the
same distance, a mile and a quarter.
The doubles tote in the paddock and
Leger paid £B4 9s. 6d. for ss. on School-
mate and Black Bull, winner of the
Winter Handicap (at 20 to 1). On the
flat no one picked Schoolmate and Black
Bull, and a lucky fellow who had coupled
Schoolmate with Monash River, second
in the Winter Handicap (at 8 to 1), col-
lected £lOB 17s. 6d. for his dollar.
* * * *
Allunga and Mestoravon entered upon
their spring campaign auspiciously at
Newcastle last Thursday. Allunga won
the Jockey Club Handicap, a mile race,
beating the consistent Bobby, and the
Sydney Cup winner was second to a mare
called Veritus in the Flying Handicap.
Allunga was favorite at 6 to 4 ; Mestor-
avon was not fancied, because the dis-
tance. was six furlongs ; he was finishing
faster than the winner all the same.
Allunga is now a five-year-old. In his
three-year-old days he gave the impres-
sion that he would improve with age,
and he will have a multitude of sup-
porters when he meets either or both of
Cooper’s expensive purchases at a mile
and a half or more.
* * * *
The lingering prejudice against Aus-
tralian-bred sires looks more ridiculous
than ever in the light of the 1936-37
returns. For the fifth successive year
Heroic was the leading sire, prize-money
won by his progeny amounting to
£32,825. Spearfelt was second with a
total of £20,348 —a really wonderful
result, considering that nine-tenths of his
stock raced in Queensland only: Queens-
land prize-money, though respectable, is
not to be compared with what the two
larger States offer. Gay Lothario was
third with £18,912, and Magpie fourth
with £16,888 ; Magpie’s Australian-bred
son Windbag was sixth with £14,483 and
Manfred ninth with £12,813. So Aus-
tralian-bred stallions, though in a de-
cided minority of the sires catalogued,
occupied five of the first nine positions.
And, though Heroic has been prematurely
lost to the breeding industry, it would
be pretty safe to wager that he will be
top of the list again next year.
* * * *
Hua is not the only three-year-old
doing fast gallops in Melbourne. With
The Chanter as companion, Ajax sped
over a mile in Imin. 43sec. on the
steeplechase grass at Caulfield. On the
same morning Hua went half a mile in
51|sec. on the Flemington sand; and
two mornings later, with Golden Promise
as partner, Hua galloped six furlongs in
lmin. 19fsec. These sons of Heroic are
very fine colts.
* * * *
“Bob Punter”: The Stevens crowd hav-
ing suddenly gone cold on anti-s.p., it
remains to be seen whether one of the
main excuses for it—its alleged effect on
racecourse attendances —will be still
available at the end of the racing season.
Notwithstanding that attending Sydney
race meetings is still costly out of all
reason—both in charges and taxes —I
have a feeling that this ensuing season
will be the richest that racing in Australia
has known for many years. My form
guide for this anticipation is (1) prevail-
ing all-round prosperity, (2) the promis-
ing nature of some of the racing ahead.
Addicts will climb over broken bottles to
see a clash of outstanding horses—even
the clash of Mala and Talking would
pack Randwick. Then there’s the real
quality of Silver Standard —surely the
unluckiest horse, of last year—still to be
decided. Just how good, or otherwise,
Gold Rod is has also to be lifted from
doubt. So have the staying powers of the
aforesaid Mala, who doesn’t seem to me
to be bred to stay. Gay Chou, who has
won brilliantly in Victoria, N.S.W. and
Queensland in all sorts of conditions, will
sink a little of mine if he fails to prove
as good as I rate him. There’s a French
animal, Gene Tout, training in Sydney
and getting lashings of publicity, who’ll
at least add a little international flavor
to the proceedings. Then there are Ajax,
Hua, Damalis, Tonga, John Wilkes, Aero
King, Lynch Law, Brazandt and a few
more to help make things willing ; the
staying discovery of last season, Mestor-
avon, still to demonstrate what’s in him,
and sundry other matters with enough
reasonable doubt about them to give
much of the forthcoming racing the right
sort of flavor.
{Continued on next page)
Footbrawl
The Subiaco ground could not accom-
modate all the people who wanted to
see Victorians play Westralians for the
Australian football championship —they
had both beaten South Australia —but
40,000 crowded in somehow. They wit-
nessed a magnificent match, which was
in doubt until the final bell. The Vic-
torians won: 14-13 to 13-11. They did
not gain the lead till the third quarter,
and at a late stage of the last quarter
the home team was only a point behind.
$ * * *
In Saturday’s V.F.L. games Melbourne
surprised Collingwood in the last quarter,
winning 22-21 to 21-16. Geelong, 17-12,
had no difficulty in downing Hawthorn,
13-13, and Carlton was too consistent
for St. Kilda, 12-16 to 11-12. “The
four” have been reshuffled. Geelong and
Melbourne are together so far as competi-
tion points are concerned, with Geelong
ahead on percentages. ’Wood is third
and Richmond next.
* * * *
Maorilanders played Test matches at
three different games on Saturday, and
won the lot. At Wellington the Spring-
boks were downed 13-7 a try and a
field goal apiece, two penalty goals
making the difference. The All-Blacks
had a bit the better of things everywhere:
the forwards were stronger, even when
Cobden went off, injured, and they had
to play a seven pack ; and the backs were
faster. The ’Boks were without full-
back Brand.
At Auckland the Australian Rugby
Leaguers were beaten by a point, 16-15,
four tries to three. Pearce, one of their
forwards, had a leg broken early in the
piece, and Gibbs went off with a couple
of ribs damaged, but the visitors led 15-
6 at lemons. Afterwards a third for-
ward, Prigg, the captain, was off for a
time, and when the Maorilanders got
ahead there was no dodging their tack-
ling. Finally, in Sydney, Australia was
beaten at hockey, 1-nil.
* * * *
Though there are still two rounds to
go, Western Suburbs is certain to qualify
for the Sydney Rugby Union semi-finals.
Against Randwick, the Westerners were
trailing 11-20 in the second half; three
quick tries, all converted, gave them a
26-20 win. University, Drummoyne,
East and Manly follow West in that
order. The Students managed a 14-14
draw with East; East had led 14-3.
Drummoyne also had to make up a 16-3
leeway to account for Parramatta—
-21-19. For the match against St. George,
Manly shifted Kelaher from the wing
to inside centre, where he scored one
of the four tries and made the openings
for two others; 19-8. If the Villagers
keep him there —or give him the ball on
the wing—Manly should qualify. Jn tn
other game North defeated Gordon, ZIM -•
(i Continued on next page.)
FOR MOONEE VALLEY.
Laluma Handicap: Avenger;
next, Captain Drake.
Glenara Handicap: Desert
Chief; next, Turf Boy or Man-
olive.
Kiata Handicap: Young Idea;
next, Sweet Memories.
Argyle Welter: Erua; next,
Cackle or Manolive.
FOR ROSEBERY.
Three- and Four-year-old Handi-
cap : Bristol; next, Levant.
Flying Handicap: Silver Stan-
dard ; next, Sturdee.
Rosebery Handicap: Jovial Son.
Alexandria Handicap: Flamari.


F
“SPORTSMAN” is the title
of the latest Model 341
REMINGTON
BOLT ACTION
REPEATING RIFLE
which has superseded the popular
Model 34 of this make.
It was impossible to improve
upon the mechanical efficiency
of this excellent arm, so Reming-
ton concentrated their energies
on bringing the weight and
dimensions of the barrel and
stock right up to the minute.
The “Sportsman” weighs 6Jlb.,
and is capable of a degree of
accuracy equal to that of a fine
match rifle. Rifle uses 22
short, long or long-rifle ammu-
nition, and magazine holds 22
short, 1 7 long or 15 long-
rifle cartridges. The sights
consist of white metal bead
front sight and elevating
flat-top rear sight.
PRICE. £5
Carriage Paid.
Lionel Bibby, Australia’s best-known
Firearms and Ballistics Authority, is
attached to the Mick Simmons’ shooting
staff. Let him advise you on any
matter pertaining to the sport of
shooting or guide you in the selection
of your gun or rifle.
Shooting Catalogue Post Free!
MICK SIMMONS
LTD.
Headquarters: Haymarket, Sydney.
Branches: City, Suburbs and Newcastle.
N.R.M.A. INSURANCE LTD.
ANNOUNCES
that, notwithstanding increased motor
accidents and the growing cost of claims,
' there will be
NO INCREASE
IN N.R.M.A. MOTOR CAR
INSURANCE RATES
•
For
CHEAPER RATES, PROMPT SETTLEMENTS, UNRIVALLED SERVICE
insure with.
N.R.M.A. INSURANCE LTD.
3 SPRING ST., SYDNEY -- - - PHONE BWI2OI
A Purely Mutual Company Funds Belong to Policy Holders
A progressive Australian office with the largest Motor Car Insurance
business in New South Wales.
Assets Exceed £350,000 . . . Claims Paid Exceed £950,000
Under the Whip
In circumstances that were not exactly
encouraging, the A.J.C. had the pluck
to offer another £10,940 in prize-money
for the year to July 31. It suffered for
its generosity ; a loss of £9634 was in-
curred. The annual report blames “off-
the-course betting, sale of tips and in-
discriminate broadcasting of informa-
tion.” It says nothing about proprietary
racing. In point of fact, Victorian
owners can win so much more on non-
proprietary courses in Melbourne that
nowadays they rarely send good horses
tc Sydney, and this dearth of first-class
inter-State competition affects attendances
at Randwick and Warwick Farm. Then,
of course, taxation and, chiefly because
of it, prices of admission are higher in
Sydney than in Melbourne.
If the N.S.W. Government were serious
about the abolition of proprietary racing
on the compensation plan, adopted with
such excellent results in Melbourne, the
outlook for Randwick and Warwick
Farm would materially improve. But
although the thing was mentioned in
the Governor’s speech at the reopening
of the N.S.W. Parliament, it is merely
to get “earnest consideration,” like the
much-advertised measures against s.p.
betting, now indefinitely shelved because
of the effect on votes
Alan Cooper, who paid £19,000 for
Talking—anyhow that amount has been
mentioned on many occasions, and there
has been no public contradiction from
the parties—has now bought Mala for
£7OOO. Cooper must have a tremen-
dous opinion of 1936-37 three-year-old
form, and the opinion is not widely
shared. Three-year-olds that were any-
thing but champions (Waterfall, Amber-
ite, Bronzetti, Palfresco, Lord Nolan,
Patrobas, Sister Olive and Trivalvn')
won one or other of the Cups. Talking
failed in both after having eveiy
in each. Yet he beat Mala in each of
the Derbys, and Mala never looked like
getting a place in the Melbourne Cup.
And those Caulfield and Melbourne Cup
fields were probably inferior to the
general average ; anyway, rank outsiders
won both races, and that rarely happens
unless fields are below the average.
Reckoning in the damages he got from
the N.S.W. Transport Department, the
money his horse won for him at Vic-
toria Park and the Cooper cheque he has
collected, Russell has cleared just on
£9OOO over Mala’s visit to Sydney this
season. Certainly a magnificent return
for his original outlay.
* * * *
S.A. Jockey Club’s annual report
shows a loss of nearly £B5O on the year.
Its nine days of racing brought a profit
of only £3BOO, as against nearly £6OOO
the year before. Betting shops, now
lawful, are held responsible. The Gov-
ernment paid the club £3OOO out of the
betting tax, but with the other hand col-
lected more than that from it as a cut
out of its totalisator takings, also £l4OO
as amusement tax. S.A.J.C. owns its
own course, a valuable section at
suburban Morphettville, and thus states
its “Balance carried forward” at over
£60,000.
ak sfc ❖ *
“Ike Mcßagg”: The Boys should be
interested in a Queensland legal decision
in favor of a plaintiff who sued for re-
covery of £l5 for lost credit bets. The
gambling laws are in a fearful tangle,
and Queensland has a unique lot of its
own. The Racing Amendment Act of
1930 says that when a punter bets on
the nod the bagman must give him an
acknowledgment. For the defence it was
pleaded that the bookie had not done
this. The magistrate refused a nonsuit.
* * * *
“Mat”: You can’t beat some s.p.
bookies for tricks. While policemen were
hanging round a Sydney suburban pub
an s.p. man put an “Out of Order” sign
on No. 2 of a three-apartment lavatory
and took up his quarters there. Clients
used No. 1 and No. 3, and booked their
bets without disturbance. After the
last race, the Law went away in a P.D.
car satisfied there had been no betting in
that pub that day.
M.Q. and Rafferty
The Richards brothers, Max and Ron,
have come to Sydney from Queensland.
Max, a featherweight, boxed Stan
Smith at Carlton, and, much more
stylish and just as active, seemed to
this scribe to have well earned a decision
at the end of the 12 rounds fought. How-
ever, referee Joe Wallis refused to sepa-
rate them. Ron met George Simpson at
Leichhardt. They are light-heavyweights,
and they furnished a very fine fight until
Simpson, who had been compelled to
take off three pounds that day, went
weak, and Richards stopped him in the
14th. The Californian put up a clean
and courageous battle. Richards is too
careful to be an interesting scrapper, but
he can be very effective when he has got
his man going.
He sH H«
“T.”: A Bulletin paragraphist was
the first to compare Farr, the Welsh
heavyweight, with Charlie Mitchell; and
the comparison has become common.
But Mitchell, a shrewd head, took good
care to acclimatise himself thoroughly
and work up from the second-raters
before he tackled the best of the Ameri-
can heavyweights. Farr is to meet the
best man in the U.S.A. after only a
month or two in the country. A foolish
policy, and the Welshman will pay for it
at the box-office, if not in the ring itself.
All the same his record shows that he is
a tough fellow with a good left hand —
he strips at 14 stone —and the combina-
tion will be difficult to dispose of if Farr
can keep his jaw and stomach away
from Louis’s fist for four or five
rounds.
Footbrawl
In the second of the Australian-foot-
ball “carnival” matches at Perth the
South Australians, donkey-licked by the
Westralians in the first match, went
within an ace of beating the Victorians,
after the Vies, had led at the end of
each quarter. Urged on by the crowd
(Small-Sister crowds always barrack


MADE BY
MARTIN, SONS & CO., LTD.,
HUDDERSFIELD, ENGLAND,
THE FOUNDERS OF THE WORSTED INDUSTRY.
il
il
bl 17
THE IDEAL OF ALL WELL-DRESSED MEN.
POSITIVELY
THE LARGEST RANGE OF EXCLUSIVE DESIGNS
EVER PRESENTED FOR MEN’S
SUITINGS
CP
o'*
G°
EDCE'
BRAKE LININCI
BRAKE TROUBLES
The majority of brake troubles are due either to poor brakt
lining or maladjustment.
Unless your brakes are adjusted so that the work is distributed equally
on all wheels then the wear is certain to be rapid and the braking poor.
If your brake material is poor in quality then all the effort and
expense of careful adjustment is wasted, for unless the lining
is consistent throughout then the wear cannot be uniform
and the brakes are soon out of correct adjustment.
Use only “RAYBESTOS” BRAKE LINING—
the quality lining.,
RAYBESTOS-BELACO, LTD.,
LONDON, ENG.
Factory Rep.: JOHN ARNOLD,
G.P.O. Box 71, Melbourne, Vic
DF
against Victorians), the South Austra-
lians bridged the. gap in the last quarter,
and a timely goal put them a point
ahead. The Victorians rallied, and when
the bell rang they had two points to the
good: 15-25 to 16-17. It was one of the
grandest matches in the history of the
national game.
* * * #
“ Jolimont”: What the economists
call the vicious circle has started in Mel-
bourne football. The V.F.L. proposes
to raise charges for admission to the
semi-finals and final, to be played on
Melbourne Cricket Ground. The imme-
diate result has been a demand for a
bigger M.C.G. cut, while players request
increased payments. One noticeable im-
provement is that seats are to be re-
served in the stand next the members'
reserve. The system was such a suc-
cess in the cricket Tests that it will prob-
ably become general for big sporting
events.
* * * *
“Fitzcray”: Perhaps as a result of the
wave of stoush that has overtaken Vic-
torian football, both League and Asso-
ciation, the number of goals scored by
the expert kickers has dropped 50 per
cent, in most cases. As a rule, one. or
two of the champions have a hundred
goals hoisted by the middle of August,
but this time the list is headed by
Harris, of Richmond, with 56 goals.
Goal-kickers are now specially “marked.”
*s*
“Dumbfounded”: Melbourne is re-
sponsible for a football record ; a
spectator has been fined for offensive
behavior to an umpire. After a match
on Carlton ground the official was being
escorted to the netted safety race when
the offender rushed to the netting and
tried to stoush him. Finding he could
not reach the fleeing outcast, he spat copi-
ously at him.
•i* H*
“Rover”: If all goes well a Sydney
Rules team will visit Broken Hill early
in October. The Sydney League has
done well out of its recent match with
the Melbourne club in Sydney, and will
blow in some of the. profit on the Bar-
rier trip. Anyway, big games at the
Hill draw good gates, and one or two
Riverina towns may be taken on also.
* # ♦ *
“Hotham”: The last inter-State Rugby
of the season will be seen at Melbourne
on August 21, when Victorians will en-
counter a Westralian side. The West-
erners have made, the long and costly
journey at their own expense, and Aus-
tralian Rugby generally could do with
some more of that sporting spirit.
* * * *
“Stand Off”: Apropos St. Joseph’s
great record in G.P.S. Rugby competi-
tions (B. 11/8/’37), why shouldn’t some
of these, school teams play in club
matches, as is the case with some of the
great Scottish and Welsh school teams?
The quality of their play is far above
that of most of the senior Sydney clubs.
* * * *
Not many Maoris play League Rugby,
but at Auckland a side headed by old
Nepia beat the Australians going to
England by 16 to 5. There is a tradition
of squealing in Rugby League journal-
ism, and the Australian defeat was
attributed to the errors of the referee,
but it seems to have been due to more
rugged forward work plus Nepia’s sure,
hands and feet. Maoris have now de-
feated the pick of Australia in the two
Rugby codes. The gallant little people
may well be proud of its footballers.
Nineteenth Hole
“Woogaroo”: The Queensland golf
heads are sending a team of seven
amateurs to Sydney for the Austra-
lian championships, which begin on
September 4. The younger generation
will furnish most of the team, while it
is hoped that an intensive search may
find a country player promising enough
to be given a gallop against the south-
ern cracks. Last year’s trip to the
championships so improved the play of
one or two of the younger members of
the team that the tour will be an annual
affair. Later, if funds come along in
sufficient quantity, a professional con-
tingent will be sent along.
“Divot Digger”: Queensland’s amateur
team for the Australian golf champion-
ships in Sydney comprises Keane, Ber-
telsen, Colledge, Jenkinson, Trude and
Twemlow. Keane, well known in N.S.W.
golf, captains the side. He now belongs
to Cairns ; Jenkinson comes from Mac-
kay, where the rum is made. Emergen-
cies include D. von Nida, brother of
Norman.
* * * *
A record entry of 171 is in for the
open golf championships which start at
Kensington (Sydney) on September 8.
Sarazen will not be here to defend his
title, and McMahon, winner in 1935, will
also be an absentee. Victoria is sending
a very formidable lot of amateurs, in-
cluding Williams, and professionals,
while Queensland’s amateur team is ex-
“Gome, come, boys, don't waste time. Who's going to play with me?"
pected up north to play the. dickens with
the southern cracks.
* * H= *
“Divot Digger”: The Kirk-Windeyer
tourney may be revived. The annual
matches for the K.-W. Cup, played
alternately in Australia and M.L., petered
out in the hard times, but as some of the
leading N.S.W. players intend touring
M.L. at the end of the year, after the
Australian championships, the N.S.W.
golf council is to be asked to allow the
players to challenge for the trophy.
* * * *
“Hamilton”: Chairman Robertson, of
the Victorian Golf Association, who has
been visiting Brisbane, has assured him-
self of a warm welcome next time he
comes by asserting he is all in favor of
national golf championships being held in
every State. For years Queensland has
been fighting to be admitted to the big
golf three, Victoria, N.S.W. and South
Australia. The traveller may swing the
weight of the V.G.A. behind a move to
grant Brisbane an international meeting,
but hitherto Victoria has shown itself
no more enthusiastic about it than
N.S.W.
* * # *
“Brassey”: The Lakes club, the most
alive and progressive of Sydney's golf
organisations, lately opened consider-
able extensions to the already fine club-
house, and invited a coterie of Sydney’s
best golfers to celebrate the occasion.
Among the additions is one which will
be regarded dubiously by golf widowers
—a special cardroom for the associates.
In the past the golfing housewife has had
to come home preparatory to rushing off
to her bridge party. If she. is a member
of the Lakes she can now stage a stay-
out strike without any inconvenience to
anyone save hungry friend husband.
* * * *
“Uitenhage”: South Africa will not
send a golfing team to Australia this
year, as was hoped. Finance and Locke’s
inability to get away after his recent
trip to England have squelched the pro-
ject.
Racauei and Bawl
” .
Top Spin : Australia s win in the
German doubles championship is the
fourth. Cummings and Moon won in
1928 ; Moon and Crawfoid in 1930 ,
Hopman and Crawford in 1932. An
Australian has yet to take the German
singles, though McGrath made a good
try for it. Henkel, who beat him, is at
the top of his form, and seems to be
entitled to the world's third or fourth
position.
* * * *
“Chalk Line”: The American Davis
Cup team’s arrival in New York was
noteworthy because of a change of note
in Budge’s insistence that he would on
no account turn professional. He was
even more vehement than was Perry
before he ’verted, and English hearers
wondered whether the genuine tennis
amateur had been discovered. Now
Budge says he will not join the cash col-
lectors “just yet.”
* * * *
“Rev. Knucklebone”: Budge and
Mako are to leave for Australia on
October 14. If a team of four is re-
quired by the A.L.T.A. heads it could be
arranged and would make for a much
better show. The folk in Melbourne,
however, are nursing the gloomiest antici-
pations as to the financial result of our
Davis Cup fiasco, and are very chary of
risking a few bob extra. Apropos, it is
said that the Perry-Vines combine has
offered Budge £15,000 to join its circus.
Miscellaneous
“Yarra Bank”: Henley-on-Yarra is to
be held on November 23. This year it
will take on added importance, for the
crew for the four-oar event in the
Empire Games and the sculler are not
to be selected until after the Melbourne
regatta. This does not interfere with
the Keary plan for the selection of the
eight-oar crew.
“Hawthorn”: The Victorian Rowing
Association has fixed April 23 for the
i n t er _state eight-oar race for the King’s
Cup> the course to be the Ya rra cham-
pionship layout of 2 x mi i es . In view of
j be f t ba t ba( j trouble in
roun ding the last crew up for practice,
no one w jjj be selected this time unless
be gj ves a satisfactory assurance that he
w jj[ turn out on the river when required,
* * *
FrQm Austra|ian now wi(h the
London Rowing Club: This year Eng-
fish crews again went up the spout
a t Henley; Americans, Austrians and
Germans outclassed them. Not until
England has done away with a vast
amount of class distinction and set
its back on all forms of snobbery can
it hope for improved crews. The wire-
pulling that goes on in the choosing ot


/
\ a ,C ' f>9‘
w
v\' e
n'»
o'*
B\e«?ls»"S < e »t a V
rtC
,(.\»v
I‘‘ , a O* -o»
■***%> *%***
'&*** «ovV' °
ve 40* **
r '-» s>
\\VA'
v\e
uov
oV
r
Stott
I 1
H
111
IteM^
I
! H <i
Distributors: John Woods and Co., Ltd., 388 Sussex Street, Sydney.
Sub Agents: Pitt, Son & Badgery, Ltd., 4 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Q’land Distributors: Australian Estates Co., Ltd., Creek St., Brisbane.
The PANEL VAN t or 1937
• • - ®/ . Construe iton
msat §&i£h €J«*ampM<et& iZqmipgmesmt
mm*
... A COMPLETE RANGE OF
V-8 UTILITY MODELS INCLUDING:
V-8 Coupe Utility 303
m
Also available with well-type body and as Roadster
Utility with well-type or straight-side bodies.
V-8 i-Ton Truck
K Ton Truck, of composite construction, has closed
cub and is available with platform, stake-side, well-
type, flare-side bodies.
BUI UROM YOUR LOCAL FORD DEALER
A magnificent All-Steel Panel Van new style and
finer value for 1937. Note specially that list price
includes complete equipment —there are no extras
to buy. (See details of standard equipment below).
In addition to the panel van Ford offers a complete
range of V-8 Utilities designed and built for today’s
conditions. Your Ford dealer will gladly arrange an
“on-the-job” test with the V-8 Utility suited to your
work. Easy and convenient purchase terms arranged.
FEATURES AND EQUIPMENT INCLUDE: All-Steel Construc-
tion—Steel Roof, Sides and Floor in Coupe Utilities and Panel
Van. Wooden Floor Optional. Front Bumper and 4 Adjustable
Double-Acting Hydraulic Shock Absorbers. Safety Glass All
Round (Except Van Rear Door Windows). Greater Operating
Economy. Large Loading Space. New Easy-Action Brakes
Ventilating V-Type Windscreen in Closed Models. Oil-Bath
Air Cleaner. Adjustable Seat. Genuine Leather Trim on Seat
and Seat Back. Enclosed Despatch Box. Utilities have Ash-
Tray and Cigar Lighter. Coupe Models have, in addition,
Dual Sun Visors, Dome Light, Arm Rest, .Large
Package Tray behind Driver’s Seat, and Rear Window Blind.
FORD V-Q 1111 J Ill< ft
FORD MOTOR COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD. (INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA) F184.24C.
’Varsity, Leander and Olympic crews is
'Staggering. In America, Germany and
Switzerland there is none of that sort of
thing, so there is no lack of good rowing.
* * * *
“Spike”: Queensland, having failed to
get a visit from the Canuck athletic team
after the Empire Games are over, is
negotiating for the South Africans, who
will be better suited by shipping condi-
tions. The Canadians have booked to
return on February 16 —the Games end
on February 12—and to miss the boat
would mean an extra month in Aus-
tralia. The Afrikanders are due to start
back on February 17, but there is an-
other boat leaving on March 5, and it is
hoped to switch them on to that if they
go north.
“’Badian”: A sticker issued by the
Empire Games for world publication is
catching the criticism it deserves. It
depicts a discus-thrower. Discus-throw-
ing has no particular Australian appeal
and is a comparatively recent introduc-
tion to our athletic programmes. A
representation of Parkhill and his pals
wrestling with the “open-go” serpent
would have a stronger local appeal, if
we must resort to classical precedent.
* * * *
“Splash”: The N.S.W. Surf Lifesaving
people are to hand out cash to help
teams to come along to the anniversary
tamasha. Maoriland is to get £2OO,
Queensland and Westralia £l5O each,
Tassie £75 and South Australia £5O.
* * * *
‘Blade Sight”: The British National
R.A. team leaves for Australia on
October 14, tarrying at Cape Town for
a few shoots in the Union. Cost of the
tour is estimated at £4000; the team
finds £l5OO of the money out of its own
collective sock, and the N.R.A. is ex-
pected to raise another £l5OO. The
public is to be asked for the balance.
* * * *
“Spinnaker”: The poor showing of
Sopwith’s Endeavour 11. in the America’s
Cup races has been a knock-back to
English yacht designers. Evidently they
still persist in building stiff-weather
yachts, for the only times the English
craft made a decent showing were when
the wind freshened. The American boats
are specially designed for the landlocked
course and the light prevailing winds, and
have the advantage of never being re-
quired to go out of soundings. The
challenger, on the other hand, must cross
the Atlantic under her own sail, and that
means stiffer and heavier construction
than is required in the stay-at-home
defender. The challenge was the six-
teenth since 1870, and unless the condi-
tions laid down are altered it seems likely
that further attempts to regain the cup
may continue to infinity without success.
* * * *
“Backstop” The Australian Board of
Control has agreed to welcome the
Maoriland cricketers on their way home.
At present the programme provides for a
match with S. Aus. at Adelaide, starting
November 5, one against Victoria at Mel-
bourne on November 12, and a third
against N.S.W., starting in Sydney on
November 19.
* * * *
“Tenth Slip”: Though there will be a
full Sheffield season and a match against
the Maorilanders, Sydney is to have an
“exhibition match” between teams led
by Bradman and McCabe. It may be
expected to turn out the dreary fizzle
these games almost invariably are. One
of the delegates to the Education Con-
ference has recorded that cricket is the
dreariest game he knows of. “Exhibi-
tion” cricket is certainly the last word in
dreariness.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: S.A. Cricket Association’s
annual report shows a record member-
ship list and a profit on the year of
over £9OOO, of which £6OOO came from
the fourth Test. A curious item on the
debit side is the N.S.W. match, which
took only £ll2, and so did not pay ex-
penses ; the Victorian and Queensland
games both showed a good profit. The
association has £15,000 invested, and
reckons its oval improvements as worth
£90,000. It also owns a block of land
in the foothills from which it gets the
Athelstone soil for the Adelaide pitch
and for such country clubs —four more
in the past season —as will take the
trouble of tending turf wickets.*
* * * *
“Aigburth”: Vociferous little George
Duckworth is retiring from Lancashire
cricket, arid is to turn journalist, of all
things. Having Lancashire affiliations,
I made a point of seeing something of
the little ’keeper when he first came here,
and can vouch for it that he is not likely
to threaten the reputations of Steele and
Addison. He has plenty of Lancashire
shrewdness, however, and his mental
equipment itself struck me as being a
long way above that of some of
the men who do professional journal-
ists out of a job by recording stuff
which turns a sub-editor’s hair grey when
it comes into the office.
* * *
“Old Q.”: Once upon a time the
Queensland C.A. plumed itself if it
came out a fiver ahead of its creditors
at the end of a season. This year, though
it cannot truthfully be said that the cricket
is of better quality than in those golden
days, the balance sheet discloses a profit
of £1125. The Sheffield games and the
acquiring of a Test have done a good
deal to swell the swag, and extreme
economy in the treatment of representa-
tive players has helped. With loans to
the Brisbane C.G., etc., the amount of
assets over liabilities is £9400.
* * * *
“Aigburth”: Five-day Tests may be
played when next the Australians are in
England. It is stated that both the
counties and the public want them, the
former because of the dividend they
share from these matches. There are
some, however, who consider that an
additional day taken from the county
programme and added to the Tests would
injure interest in county cricket, which,
after all, is the backbone of the game
in England. As it is, the selection of a
star player robs a county of his services
for two matches at least.
* * ' s? *
“P.P.”: Not so long ago any refer-
ence to table tennis as a genuine sport
was received with yelps of derision. Now
it ranks high among indoor games, and
international championships have as large
a following as Davis Cup tennis. Two
Hungarian champions, Szabados and
Kelen, reach Sydney on August 25 to
tackle the N.S.W. State side during a
tour of the capital cities. Szabados is
ranked the world’s No. 2 player, and has
won 74 national championships. Kelen
is a writer on the game, and has been a
member of Hungary’s No. 1 team.


SHADOW
SHOWS
“Moonlight Sonata.”
IGNACE JAN PADEREWSKI,
Himself
SWEDISH BARONESS,
Marie Tempest
HER GRANDDAUGHTER,
Barbara Greene
STEWARD OF ESTATE,
Charles Farrell
This film is slowed down by a fair bit
of it being devoted to pianism by
Paderewski, but nobody will quarrel
with this, for the playing includes the
Second Liszt Rhapsody, the first move-
ment of the “Moonlight” and Paderew-
ski’s own “Minuet L’Antique.” Now an
aged figure, he moves through the pic-
ture with old-world courtliness, but he
plays with the same mental and manual
vigor that has always characterised his
art.
A singularly polished performance is
given by Marie Tempest as a Swedish
baroness to whose country home a
forced ’plane landing brings Paderewski,
his secretary and a handsome young
fellow-traveller. When the latter weaves
a spell about her infatuated grand-
daughter she shrewdly picks him for the
fortune-hunter he is and trumps his
every move, while retaining graciousness
throughout. Crisp of speech and easy in
manner, she achieves an unforgettable
bit of work.
Technically, the film is first-class, ex-
cept for occasional deficiencies in the
pianoforte recording. At Sydney Lyceum.
“Thunder in the City.”
SUPER GO-GETTER, Ed G. Robinson
BONEHEADED DUKE, Nigel Bruce
HIS LADY DAUGHTER, Luli Deste
This English film has to commend it
some amusing situations and spirited act-
ing, especially by Ed G. Robinson, who
for the first time is seen without his
trusty gat. (for he finds himself in re-
spectable England), and by Nigel Bruce as
an easygoing, dull member of the Brit-
ish peerage. Its chief fault lies in
woodenness of direction.
Apparently the English director recog-
nises only two types of his fellow-coun-
trymen —the £5OOO-p.a.-and-over-income
chappai who wears a morning coat and
blahs about his Alma Matah, and the
gorbloime three-quid-a-week bloke in the
tweed cap. No film is deemed complete
without emphasis on this social disparity,
and, as also in this opus, action is on
the slow side.
If one is prepared to accept some tall
financial deals the yarn is engaging
enough. Ed G. is an American high-pres-
sure sales manager who, on the advice
of his directors, goes to England to
absorb dignity and curb his leaning to
ballyhoo. Through titled relatives he
meets a friendly duke, who owns a mine
in Africa producing a rare metal, and
Yankee go-gettership quickly comes to
holts with English dignity. There is a
leavening of romance, with Ed, for once,
finishing up in the lady’s arms instead of
as a bullet-riddled carcass.
Wanting someone to take the role of
the very English daughter of a duke, the
casting director picked on an Austrian
with a distinct accent. It’s just a quaint
old Elstree custom. At Sydney Lyceum.
“Outcast.”
SCANDAL-DAMAGED SURGEON,
Warren William
RETIRED LAWYER .... Lewis Stone
GIRL WHO DIDN’T UNDER-
STAND Karen Morley
The sawbones who comes a society
cropper and retires to the backblocks to
become beloved by all crops up for the
umptieth time in this opus. Acquitted
of murdering a millionaire’s wife (she
took poison because he wouldn’t fall for
her, but he was too noble to tell) the
handsome medico finds the jury’s ver-
dict isn’t worth two cents to his fashion-
able clientele. He is hounded out of
Baltimore, goes to Oak Forks, and is
persuaded to stay there by a benevolent
old lawyer, once a spellbinder of juries.
But on his trail, incognito, intent on
some more hounding, is the millionaire’s
beauteous sister. Old lawyer throws
hunter and hunted together, and after a
while the girl realises that she has sorely
misjudged an upright man. But the vil-
lagers, egged on by an insane woman
who publishes the local newspaper,
arrange a lynching bee with the medico
and the girl as victims. The old lawyer
saves them with a spirited oration, and
everybody is happy ever after.
Trite stuff, but the acting is convinc-
ing, action is brisk and dialogue excel-
lent. Stone gives one of the best per-
formances of his long screen career,
Warren William gives a very natural
picture of the medico and Miss Morley’s
change of mind is cleverly depicted. At
Sydney Civic.
“The Crime Nobody Saw.”
AUTHORS IN SEARCH OF A PLOT,
Lew Ayres, Eugene Pallette
and Benny Baker
IRRELEVANT FLAPPER,
Ruth Coleman
Elstree’s hold on the Slow Motion
Championship is threatened by this
tangled farrago of improbabilities from
MIXED
IMPRESSIONS.
“Moonlight Sonata”
and the Marcus Show :
Paderewski, the little girl
who broke down, the Hillbilly
and the lady who makes- love
to herself.
a Hollywood studio. Three young men
vainly endeavoring to construct a
scenario for a thriller receive a visit
from a notorious blackmailer who is
dead drunk. They purloin his note-
book, discover the names of his black-
mailees and, with the idea of getting
plot material, ring three of them up and
demand their presence in the name of the
police, on the pretext that the black-
mailer is about to die and wishes to
make a statement in their presence.
While they are posing as policemen and
browbeating the blackmailees, the black-
mailer, asleep on a sofa behind a screen,
is stabbed to the. heart, and the pseudo-
policemen have to do some genuine de-
tecting. The fantasia drags along like a
snail badly afflicted with arthritis, and
this commentator slept through the
denouement. At Sydney Civic.
“The Outcasts of Poker Flat.”
GAMBLER Preston Foster
HIS PARD .. Margaret Irving
SWEET YOUNG SCHOOLMARM,
Jean Muir
Bret Harte’s story of the turbulent days
of the California ’49 gold rush in a capi-
tal screen version. As the tough gambler,
almost ashamed of his soft-heartedness
towards Luck, the orphan girl whom he
adopts, Preston Foster throws himself
into his role with vim. Jean Muir does
neat work as the winsome and refined
young .school-teacher for whom the
gambler makes the final sacrifice, and
Margaret Irving is sufficiently hard-boiled
to fit into the part of the cynical partner
of the gambler. Van Heflin is the Rev.
Samuel Woods, leader of the movement
among the sober elements to establish
law and order and close up John Oak-
hurst’s gambling joint.
Careful directing has kept the climax,
which tends to the bellowdrama beloved
of the period, within reasonable limits.
At Sydney Capitol.
“Night Key.”
RADIO GENIUS .... Boris Karloff
HIS DAUGHTER Jean Rogers
HEAD OF BURGLAR ALARM
CO Samuel Hinds
ONE OF HIS COPS .... Warren Hull
BIG-SHOT GANGSTER .. Alan Baxter
In this very neatly-constructed thriller,
Karloff, though as gifted in the inven-
tive way as ever, retains his ethics and
his sanity, and as a result is more con-
vincing than in more highly-colored
roles. Robbed of the fruits of his in-
vention of an electric burglar-alarm he
works on another device, wireless, which
is much more effective. He sells this
to the. man who originally diddled him
for a small cash payment, plus royalties,
and is then told that the device will
never be manufactured. But the old man
is not helpless. He can put his earlier
burglar alarm out of action with what
he calls a “night key,” and this he does,
staging a series of mock burglaries all
over the city. But, alas, he is captured
by gangsters, who bring pressure on him
by kidnapping his lovely daughter. The
bad men leave him under guard while
they sally forth to loot the town, but
the old chap has a big radio laboratory
at his command, paralyses his guards
with high-voltage current, escapes, and
confounds the thieves by reversing the
alarm system. Originally a light went
on at headquarters when a lock was tam-
pered with. Now all lights are on, and
the application of the “night key” turns
one off. So the rats are rounded up, the
lovely daughter is released and the fade-
out shows her kissing the young cop
who befriended her.
Well-acted. Especially effective in
Baxter, whose dead, toneless voice is in-
expressibly sinister. At Sydney Lyric,
“As Good as Married.”
MILLIONAIRE ARCHITECT,
John Boles
HIS SECRETARY-WIFE, Doris Nolan
HER ADMIRER Walter Pidgeon
PROFESSIONAL MARRIER,
Tala Birell
One of those machine-made comedies
—9O p.c. old stuff, 10 p.c. new angle—
that Hollywood turns out so slickly. This
one isn’t so slick; probably it would
have gone better with a complete re-
shuffle of cast. Architect who makes
oodles of money by designing weird-
looking and horribly uncomfortable
apartments (dozens of samples are
shown) marries his secretary (1) to save
income tax; (2) to avoid breach-of-
promise actions. It is incredible that a
New Yorker of his age and business
acumen should be such a chump as this
fellow is represented to be. The girl, of
course, is in love with him, and to
arouse his jealousy carries on an affair
with another man. This simple plan suc-
ceeds. But before it does the wife has to
stand by while the husband caresses
various other women.
Boles is hampered by the incredible
stupidity of his role, but the others,
especially Pidgeon, go far towards re-
deeming a poor plot. At Sydney Plaza.
“The Singing Marine.”
YOWLING MARINE .. Dick Powell
HIS MANAGERS, .... Hugh Herbert,
Addison Richards
YAWPING FEMALE .. Doris Weston
Battleship buddies and submarine
ratings of the U.S. navy (which seems
to be an annexe of Hollywood) have
skipped through gorgeous musicals ; now
it is the marines’ turn, in a setting more
fatuous than lavish.
Dick Powell has not yet ousted Bing
Crosby from his proud position as Public
Neckpain No. 1, but he’s getting close
up. In this effort he is the familiar radio-
tryout sensation. He becomes famous
overnight as a super crooner who causes
strong men to sob and thousands of
women to fight for the privilege of gazing
on his masculine pulchritude. His goil,
who “flops” at the same tryout', can only
gaze goofishly at him and sigh “Gee,
you’re swell!” doubtless referring to his
head expansion, which follows the sign-
ing of a fat contract, for thereafter the
fellow looks down his nose at his non-
crooning messmates. The scene shifts to
Shanghai, where millions of Chinks rush
the warship to gaze on this wonderful
singer—yes, they’d even heard of his
fame in Asia! The fact that Western
music is as distasteful to the Chinese as
Chinese music is to the rest of the world
doesn’t seem to have reached Hollywood.
Hugh Herbert’s usual eccentricities get
laughs. A couple of sparrows fighting on
a galvanised-iron roof could be mistaken
for Doris Weston’s vocal efforts. At
Sydney Regent.
“The Footloose Heiress.”
SPOILT RICH GIRL .. Ann Sheridan
HIGHBORN HOBO .. Craig Reynolds
COMIC FATHER .... Hugh O’Connell
A weak paraphrase of “My Man God-
frey.” Advertising magnate’s girl is un-
controllable and insists on marrying
people on bets. Hobo, who really is a
scion of the head of one of Bahston’s
oldest advertising houses, is introduced to
household, and not only tames girl but
proves to be a very capable writer of ad.
copy. Acting is competent, the principals,
both starring for the first time, showing
themselves worthy of much better
material than has been given them here.
The film, which is a string of cliches,
has one merit—it lasts less than an hour.
At Sydney Regent.
“Talk of the Devil.”
SHIPBUILDER Randle Ayrton
HIS WARD Sally Eilers
SWINDLING BROTHER-IN-LAW,
Basil Sydney
VISITING AMERICAN, Ricardo Cortez
Supporting film at Sydney Embassy
to “Wings of the Morning” (already
given top marks by The Bulletin), this
is pleasing drama. Competent direction
—rare in British films —has made the
most of a plot which has many original
and clever twists. The character acting
is excellent.
The story deals with ruin and disgrace
brought upon an honorable businessman
by his unscrupulous brother-in-law, who
poses as his brother. The gift of voice
imitation possessed by a mutual Ameri-
can friend is exploited by the “brother,”
the American innocently lending his aid,
and this talent of mimicry is the deter-
mining factor in the climax.
The mildly melancholy Cortez is far
more convincing in a romantic leading
role than in the gangster parts that used
to be dealt out to him. Ayrton’s busi-
nessman is uncommonly fine.
“A Woman in Distress.”
REMBRANDT OWNER, May Robson
GANG LEADER .. Douglas Dumbrille
RIVAL REPORTERS .. Irene Hervey,
Dean Jaggers
Moderately entertaining, this has to do
with a Rembrandt owned by an old maid
living alone in a small country town.
The art critic of a newspaper gives it
the once-over and in pronounces it


DF
:
t ■
■
■
IMS
■ l
m
Hi
HU
■
H 1
n
H
illMlll
~ H :
:-- v -
64 Elliott Road,
South Lismore.
To
Messrs. William Arnott, Limited,
Homehush.
Dear Sirs,
Enclosed please find a photograph of my son
Warren, aged 17 months, who has been reared on
Arnott’s Milk Arrowroot and Shredded Wheatmeal
Biscuits. I find that both these biscuits supply all the
required needs for a growing child, avoiding the
development of that flabby fat. 1 can thoroughly
recommend either of these two mentioned biscuits for
any growing children.
Yours faithfully,
Mrs. W. D. Newman.
During the past half-century over 40,000
photographs of strong, vigorous children
reared from the age of six months on
Arnott’s Famous Milk Arrowroot Biscuits have
been sent with testimonials by grateful
mothers to William Arnott, Limited,
Qrnotts
Famous
MILK AIIOWIOOT
BISCUITS
Always ask your Grocer for Arnott’s
“They are Better than* Ever
the real Mackay—fast work even for an
American connoisseur—but by the time
the scoop comes hot from the presses a
fival paper quotes the opinion of a
world-famous authority that the picture
isn’t genuine. Thereafter the reporter on
paper No. 1 and the lady snooper on the
rival rag try to trip each other up at
every opportunity, until a threat to the
old lady by the bad men when the
picture slips through their fingers throws
them into the same camp. A modicum
of excitement is the outcome.
May Robson, eschewing lachrymal
exercises, is a delight as the outwardly
grumpy but soft-hearted old lady who
objects to the publicity her picture has
brought her. At Sydney Plaza.
“His Affair.”
SPECIAL INVESTIGATOR,
Robert Taylor
DANCE-HALL GAL, Barbara Stanwyck
CROOKS .... Victor McLaglen, Brian
Donlevy, Douglas Fowley, John
Carradine and Alan Dinehart
PRESIDENT McKINLEY, Frank Conroy
PRESIDENT THEODORE
ROOSEVELT .... Sidney Blackmer
ADMIRAL DEWEY, Robert McWade
Most of the material of this drama is
familiar, but direction is first-class, thrills
are judiciously mixed with romance and
the casting couldn’t be bettered. Taylor
is a young naval officer engaged privately
and personally by President McKinley to
discover what high figure in banking
circles is supplying inside information
to a gang of robbers operating in the
Middle West. The young officer becomes
a member of the gang, tips off one of
their raids, and gets himself arrested with
the one other survivor of a revolver
battle (McLaglen). In gaol, both men
under sentence of death, McLaglen
weakens and tells the name of the man
higher up. The young officer writes to
the President forwarding the informa-
tion, but, alas! an assassin’s bullet has
laid McKinley low. Nobody else knows
anything about the arrangement, save
that McKinley’s secretary may remember
that there was a private mark on corre-
spondence from the agent to the Presi-
dent. But secretaries go when Presidents
go. How can word be got to Roosevelt
from a prisoner in the condemned cell?
It wouldn’t be fair to spoil such a nice bit
of drama by telling the ending, but it
may be mentioned that the prologue shows
the young officer’s name on a memorial
plaque in Washington, with no explana-
tion of the service that earned him such
honor.
The surprise of this film is the im-
provement in Miss Stanwyck, who is
hardly recognisable in the garb of the
gay ’nineties, and who puts up the best
performance of her career in a role that
seems to have been made for her. Con-
roy’s impressive impersonation of Mc-
Kinley is another highlight; Blackmer’s
Roosevelt seems a broad caricature in
comparison. Taylor, McLaglen, Don-
levy and the rest fit naturally into the
picture. Previewed at Fox Theatrette,
Sydney.
STAGE SHOWS.
Schneevoigt in Melbourne.
The Bach organ Prelude and Fugue
which Respighi orchestrated was the
highlight of the Melbourne Town Hall
concert on Saturday. Professor Schnee-
voigt officiated. Unmistakably organ
music, it was played with great vim by
the local orchestrions. The Glazounov
Symphony (No. 4), which preceded it,
had length without breadth by compari-
son and failed to command attention.
Nor did the “Burlesque” for piano and
orchestra of Richard Strauss stampede
the audience into overwhelming trans-
ports, although the inconsequential solo
parts were very well manipulated by
Vera Bradford. The house was aroused
to amused interest when the Finnish con-
ductor explained in dismembered Eng-
lish that the “Joursenet” of his fellow-
countryman Vaino Raitio concerned the
yearly migration of the swans from
northern regions of Africa and the
tragedy of a swan that could not cover
the distance. The music itself was a
pleasant enough fragment. Five Hun-
garian sketches by Bartok, which in-
cluded a Bear Dance and a piece entitled
“Slightly Tipsy,” evoked laughter, and
the professor was out for a lark himself,
apparently, for he crowned violinist Lam-
bert and the lady who sat next to him
with green horseshoes and indulged in a
good-humored altercation with ’cellist
Sisserman. Whether it was more
these distractions and divertissements
which put the audience in high spirits or
the quality of the music it would be diffi-
cult to say, but the conductor got an un-
usually warm ovation at the finish,
although there was nothing very remark-
able about the “Midsommarvaka” of the
Swedish composer Alfven which con-
cluded the programme.
CURRENT ARTBURSTS.
Melbourne Contemporaries.
There is nothing startlingly new in the
sixth annual exhibition of the Contem-
porary Group at Melbourne Athenaeum.
Exhibiting artists appear more mature in
their work and less inclined to reckless
experiment. Flower studies and por-
traiture are generally better than the out-
door scenes, some of which must surely
have happened only in the artists’ minds.
Of the Vic. exhibitors, George Bell’s
nudes and Arnold Shore’s brilliantly
decorative flower pieces are outstanding.
In the Epstein tradition, the nudes bulge
in unexpected places, but the artist con-
veys an impression of'life and flowing
firmness. Arnold Shore has shoved too
much into some of his flower studies ;
too much herbage and too many colors.
Roland Wakelin’s “Red Lamp” and
Daryl Lindsay’s “Pot Plants” are quietly
expressive. By suggestive half-tones —
quite startling after some of the tartan
effects —William Frater’s women portraits
attract immediate attention. Isabel
Tweddle’s work has none of the cut-out-
and-pasted-on impression conveyed by a
few of the other exhibits; her portraits
have a quietly impressive quality about
them.
4* 4*
Palmer-Sheridan Show.
Ethleen Palmer, one of Australia’s
most accomplished practitioners of the
art of making lino, color blocks, shows
20 of her prints at the Wynyard Book
Club, Sydney. They owe a good deal to
Middle Europe in block-making tech-
nique and to Japan in design, but the
subjects are all Australian or familiar in
Australia, and the Melbourne and Adel-
aide galleries consider the work worthy
of a place on their walls. Especially
effective in their coloring are “Hornbills”
and “Finches and Lilly Pilly,” and there
is some very graceful drawing in “Cocka-
toos,” “Making the Road” and “Farrell’s
Shed, Newport.”
Associated with Miss Palmer's lino.-
cuts are the paintings in oil and watey-
color of Katharine Sheridan. The water-
colors are best—good, clean work, but
not very ijnpressive as to subject and
composition. A head, “James,” suggests
that this artist has more talent for child
portraiture than for landscape.
+
International Poster Exhibition.
This brightens the walls of the big
gallery on top of David Jones’s George-
street store, Sydney. Most striking and
pleasant feature of it to the average in-
telligent mortal is that the makers of
these hundreds of clever, striking designs
have eschewed the affectations and ugly-
isms of the so-called “modern” move-
ment in Art and make their statements
in a sensible, adult manner. A reyiew
of the exhibits would take a page. It is
enough to note in passing that the shape-
liest girls appear in the ads. of the Penn-
sylvania Railway and in some Australian
posters. The Middle European damsels
are not nearly so pulchritudinous. Honors
for design and draughtsmanship go to
the very accomplished painters who serve
the English railway companies, and the
gayest, most light-hearted designs come
not from La Belle France but from Scan-
dinavia. Germany and Austria are still
making great play with schlosses perched
on hilltops, and the Swiss, presenting
gigantic bronzed faces, emphasise the
health-giving qualities of their celebrated
mountain air.
•I* -I* -I-
New Art for the Schools.
The theory has been enunciated that
children are more likely to be influenced
by and to appreciate art, literature or
music that is contemporary than by old
classics. Therefore a London firm of
lithographers has prepared a series of
10 large prints of pictures in the de-
liberately crude and slapdash modern
manner for the adornment of school
walls. The prints, now on view at
Anthony Horderns’, Sydney, where they
are flanked by a vast array of French
impressionist reproductions, include
comic pieces, “The Sick Duck,” by
Graham Sutherland, “Bears at Tea,” by
H. S. Williamson, and “In the Park,” by
Robert Medley; Edward Bawden’s
Chinese-looking “Cattle Market,” land-
and seascapes by John and Paul Nash,
Eric Ravilious, Nora McGuinness and
Clive Gardiner, and a weird-looking
figure piece, “Charade,” by Barnett
Freedman. A printed foreword to the
series adduces the observation of an
English headmaster that his pupils pre-
fer T. S. Eliot to Wordsworth as con-
firmation of the theory that the contem-
porary and freakish is more palatable
to youth than the ancient and ortho-
dox. The parallel might be more exact
if Eliot reverted to the idiom of Chaucer,
as so many of the “moderns” in art re-
vert to primitive methods of picture-
making.


The Richardson Chain Hotel
D
THE
HOTEL
LONDON
99 Elizabeth St.,
(next Collins St.)
Melbourne
Hot and Cold
Water, Telephone
and Central Heat-
ing, Reading Lamp
to Every Bedroom.
MELBOURNE'S MOST
CENTRAL HOTEL.
RATES PER DAY.
Room and Meals .... from 12/6
Room and Breakfast .. from 7/6
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
The tragic news of Helen Hughes’s
death in London has left sorrowing
friends throughout Australia. Every
capital city knew her pretty looks and
ways, for since her coming out she had
been one of a gay, light-hearted group
that made brighter the festive season of
each State. Helen, daughter of the
Federal Minister of Health, William
Morris Hughes, and Dame Mary Hughes,
seemed to have stepped into a world
without one crumpled rose-leaf. Her
fair-haired beauty drew the gaze even in
the most crowded functions. She had
the perfect dress sense, and, above all, she
had that something extra that made
artists want to paint her. On a former
visit to England the great Lazio did so.
Queen Mary knitted one of her first
baby frocks. She had the gift of keeping
her friends. She died the day before
her 22nd birthday.
Sydney sparked along last week on a
hurricane voltage, of brain power. The
University buzzed like a beehive with
groups of men and women teachers
zooming along its paths and corridors.
Some were hurrying to hear the soft-
voiced, rather flat-toned Dr. Zilliacus;
some wouldn’t miss their Swiss, the gentle
and bearded Dr. Bovet from Geneva.
Others again swore by the quiet convic-
tion of Harrow’s Dr. Norwood and
America’s Dr. Hart. The Great Hall,
chemistry, theatre, Union Hall —in short,
every niche has enthroned an apostle, and
all had their disciples. Behind their
powder-puffs, however, the girls whisper
that Dr. Paul Dengler, of Vienna, is the
fascinating boy of the party.
Possibly before the New Education
Fellowship Conference has put up its
shutters, young men and women with
hangdog air will be sneaking out to the
corner where the garden rubbish is being
burned, and casting thereon all their A-,
B- and C-class certificates. As for the
buyers of old gold, they should reap a
harvest in old school medals. A child
who makes a habit of passing examina-
tions may soon be looked upon more as
a social blister than one to be rewarded
with father’s second-best watch. The
N.E.F. is injecting a fine, healthy con-
tempt for examinations into our adult
social system. Like, hope, that sentiment
springs eternal in the breast of schoolboy
and -girl.
The Women’s Committee, of which the
energetic Ruby Board is convener, has
been busy, and, in addition to, the big
functions it has planned, there has
been much intimate entertaining of the
N.E. Fellows. Many of them were guests
in private homes. The Charlie Lloyd
Jones couple put up some., and the
Women’s College and Hopewood House
were two other pleasant temporary
homes. The best woman’s function in
the visitors’ honor was the National
Council lunch. Spring chicken was
served amid spring blossoms, and there
was an air of light and cheerfulness
throughout David Jones’s auditorium.
Lady Wakehurst emphasised the note of
spring also in her pale-beige suit and hat.
Ruby Board’s swing-back coat was in
soft blue-green. Dame Constance
D’Arcy’s hat and suit were mulberry-
toned. Miss I. Fidler presided. Mrs.
Pankhurst Walsh and Ruby Rich were
seen. Mrs. A. G. Thomas and Miss
Tildesley were hatching a Drama League
party. Dr. Susan Isaacs, an important
delegate to the conference who ought to
meet Neville Cayley, as she is a bird-
lover, was at the lunch.
Of overseas women at the conference,
Mrs. Beatrice Ensor, who founded the
fellowship, was much in evidence. She is
vital, and has good looks and handsome
clothes. In speaking she is given to repeti-
tion and addicted to drawing attention to
her French accent and her international
antecedents. It is interesting to hear
once that Mrs. Ensor was born in France
of English parents, her father in Greece,
parents English, her mother in Italy,
parents English, that she married an
Irishman and lived in South Africa.
Mrs. Malherbe, whose husband is the
highlight from South Africa, a pretty
woman who sported one of the jaunti-
est navy Breton sailors this Letter has
seen, discoursed on the easy life of the
housewife in South Africa and the need
for exalting domestic science. Then
there was the lady from Glasgow with
the rosy cheeks and the apple-green
ensemble who told of constructive work
taught in clubs for unemployed in the
city on the Clyde. Marjorie Lismer,
daughter of the Canadian art man, found
the whole thing, a grand bit of fun. Her
father, by the way, if standing near a
colleague, had an almost absent-minded
way of turning up the other’s conference
badge and with a few pen strokes mak-
ing quite a good portrait sketch of the
wearer.
For the reception at the University all
the conferrers downed tools and, jocund
and carefree, juggled oyster rolls, de luxe
looking cakes and cups of tea. That is
when they could arrive at them. This
was a slow journey from the outer door
of the Union refectory. All the people
who were at the N.C.W. lunch turned up,
as did all those who were going to the
League of Nations’ snack the following
day. At that Dr. Norwood, the speaker,
proved himself at once the. lion and the
Christian. Mrs. Pankhurst Walsh was
an early arrival; so were Ruby Rich and
Mrs. Goodisson. An attractive trio were
Mrs. C. L. Jones, Mrs. Malherbe and
Mary Kelly. Mrs. Wyndham, whose
doctor husband was secretary of the con-
ference, wore a bright-green suit and a
leafy-brown hat. Sir Percy Meadon, a
nice study in grey, looked on while Dr.
Lismer drew his own caricature for the
newspapers. Ruby Board and Miss I.
Fidler came. Dr. Sadler smiled gently
on the company and faded out. Isabel
McKenzie, one of this city’s experts on
the child and the paintbox, was in com-
pany with a blithe writing sister. Francis
Anderson talked League of Nations
Union, and his tall wife looked cool in
spite of the spring day and her fur coat.
Lena Bates told happily of the Teachers’
College lunch when there really had been
a chance to talk to the delegates. Dr.
Alexandra Dengler was one of the smart
—her choice a grey suit. Mr. Peter
Board, Registrar Selle and Vice-Chan-
cellor Wallace were much greeted. The
lovely paintings on the wall went almost
unheeded.
In the cool of the day Prof. Harvey
Sutton flung, with great verve, boomer-
angs about the University oval, then
whistled them back to him. But this idea
of making boomerang-throwing a Uni-
versity subject must be frowned upon.
The man with the diploma (in spite of
the N.E.F.) would get the job every time,
and the result would be unemployment
among the aborigines.
When a dance is as successful as the
Old Sydneyians’ was last week, the secre-
tary should be served with his meed of
praise. Blaxland Galleries were color-
ful and crowded and gay long before the
B.JO mentioned on the cards, and for
their 17th yearly dance the Sydneians and
their partners put their best foot forward,
drew their most glittering trains. Yes, a
few trains still appear, and look effec-
tive. Most of the dancers being youth-
ful, the frocking was bright of hue, and
knots of flowers appeared on many a
head. President of the union N. L.
Cowper and his wife were the night’s
host and hostess. Her frock was of
blithely-checked taffeta, and wore two
red camellias on its shoulder.
Mrs. St. Vincent Welch’s gold frock
had a jacket of brown tulle. Mrs. John
Bruxner’s black taffetas were sashed in
fuchsia ; Jennifer Maughan was pictorial
in blue, off-the-shoulder moire. Others
who sat at the official table, with its gold
flowers and black lacquered leaves, were
the Donovan Foys, the Hyam Marks
couple and H. S. Dettmann. Robin
Curtis’s black frock had shoulder scarves
of Nile green. Ruth Basil Jones’s white
satins were filmed with violet tulle. Lulu
Lowe mingled black lace and white satin.
Marjorie Manchee wore a striking en-
semble in burnt orange tones for her
wedding garment. This was collared in
soft water mole, and against the fur a
pale mauve orchid was pinned. Marjorie,
who had no bridesmaids, was given away
by her father. Ross Arnott was the
bridegroom, and the vows echoed in St.
Stephen’s in Macquarie-street at midday
last Thursday. Bride’s parents, the
Lionel Manchees, of Moree, held a recep-
tion at the Queen’s Club. Here, as in the
church, sprays of almond-blossom were
used m decoration Mrs Manchee s suit
was of dark-blue sheer; her flowers were
orcmas.
Here’s smiling Peggy Dunbar, who has
been away from Sydney for some years,
The Sydney contralto went to London
to study with Esta d’Argo, and made
many appearances in oratorio in London
and the provinces. Her golden notes
caught the ear of C. B. Cochran, and she
was m that great one s production ot
Music in the Air A year s contract
with Noel Coward was another starry
event in a career that has included work-
ing with British Gaumont Films. Peggy
provided the voice of honeydew when
heroines had a song to sing but hadn t
either silver or gold currency in the
voice box She has done much broad-
casting with the 8.8. C., and has often
broadcast on the Empire station to Aus-
traha Before leaving Sydney Peggy was
contralto soloist at St. Johns Church,
Wahroonga, for a few years. Marie
Brown (now Mrs. Harold Bott) was
soprano soloist at the same time, and
had her wedding a week before Peggy
went off so that Peggy could be brides-
maid.
The Lyceum Club’s lunch to Helen
Simpson drew librarian Harry Green
from the Fisher Library. To him fell
the lot of making the speech in reply,
and calm and serene he did it, though
he was the only man at the official table.
President Mrs. A. G. Thomas introduced
the guest with the wit of brevity, and
probably never has a guest made a more
modest speech. Helen Simpson, her
words and works were not mentioned.
She told a neat story as her only com-
ment on the Bridge. Many years ago*a
Spanish king built at great expense a
bridge over a river which was never a
very large one, and in summer dried up
altogether. When he had built it, he
summoned the ambassadors of other
Powers to behold it. The Frenchman
was flattering. But the Englishman,
asked his opinion of it, looked down at
the river bed, the time being summer,
and said softly: “Your Majesty, would
it not be well to sell your bridge and
buy some water?” The point of the
moral was, of course, an often droughty
countryside. The tables were rosy with
plum- and peach-blossom. Poets Mary
Gilmore and Winifred Birkett, another
speaker, were at the top table ; so was
this Letter’s one-time writer Vandorian.
Artist Unk White and his slim Spanish-
Australian wife returned to Sydney last
week. They tell of happy days in Heidel-
berg, where they didn’t know the lan-
guage but got on famously because they
knew many of the songs beloved in that
town of (according to the musical
comedies) student princes. In London
Unk met with success and placed a good
deal of work with the “Sketch” and the
“Tatler.” He and his wife spent Christ-
mas with Phil Lindsay in his Elizabethan,
timbered cottage at Rye. Philip gave
them a real old-fashioned Christmas, with
mistletoe and holly, and turkey-and plum-
pudding.
Coming home by Panama, the Aus-
tralians were able to explore Costa Rica
and the mountain town of San Jose.
They spent three or four months there,
and Unk did a great number of sketches.
Here the painted ox-carts were a thing
of beauty to them. The slow pacing
oxen with their wide wooden yokes, also
painted in designs inspired by old Indian
weavings and pottery, seemed on their
rhythmic stepping hooves to beat out a
siesta-inducing calm. One of the Whites’
prideful possessions is a pack of toreador
playing cards. The back is painted with
a fearsome bull, and the front carries
an exquisite little painting of some
famous toreador in one of his most tell-
ing and graceful movements. While
abroad, Unk placed a new toy on the
market —a variation of the koala.
Italy’s acting Consul-General Marocco
has sent out cards announcing a Requiem
,Mass in memory of Marchese Guglielmo
Marconi. This will be celebrated to-
morrow (Thursday) morning at ten
o’clock by the Apostolic Delegate, Arch-
bishop Panico.
By last week’s American mail Neville
Smith received a book of prints from
Millard Sheets. Millard is one of
America’s leading artists, right in the
front rank of water-colorists. The prints
are of his own paintings, and he has
written inside the cover “To my friend,
Neville Smith, whose work I admire so
much.” Millard, who lives outside Los
Angeles, has done some beautiful murals
for banks and department stores through-
out California. There is something of
the mysticism of El Greco in his work.
The same mail brought Mr. Smith word
that one of his own paintings, “Ton-
kinese Gardening in Noumea,” has been
bought by the Dallas National Gallery.
Dallas is the capital of Texas.
“The Mikado” is the bit of Gilbert
and Sullivan chosen by the junior boys
at St. Aloysius’s College, Milson’s Point,
for their next operatic night. The three
little maids from school would appear
more at ease in the footer field, but
Pooh Bah and Pish Tush are fitted to
their parts as hand to glove. Director
Bill Caspers is getting as much fun out
of the rehearsals as the boys are.
The A.B.C. is more used to having
• brickbats than flowers cast at it, but
at the Lyceum Club’s lunch in her honor
Helen Simpson threw it a regular
bouquet. The novelist, returned to her
home town after years of absence and
success in London, assured the company
that the A.B.C. was altogether much
nicer to deal with than the 8.8. C.
Apparently there is not so much stifling
red-tape yet in the Australian Com-
mission. The author, as you can see
from this picture, has fine eyes. Her voice
is deep and vibrant, and she preaches
that success comes only to the writer who
has the infinite capacity for taking pains.
For some years she has been married
to a Harley-street specialist, Dr. Denis
Browne, and her small daughter is
named Clemence after novelist Clemence
Dane. Her first idea was to make a
career as a musician, and family friends
say she had every prospect of being
noted in the music world. Recreations
from novel writing are poetry and snuff.
One suspects the snuff-taking is as much
for the pleasure of handling an elegant
little case as for its contents.
Among the Orford’s passengers last
Saturday were the T. G. B. Osborns.
The botany professor, who goes to
Oxford as a Fellow of Magdalen Col-
lege, has been over 10 years at Sydney
University.. His wife shares his enthu-
siasm for his job. She’s a botanist her-
self, and took her degree at Manchester
Uni. With son Richard they went off,
looking forward to reunion with Peter,
now fairly well established on the
London stage. Peter started his career
with Sydney amateur groups. His new-
est part is in “Bonnets Over the Wind-
mill.” During the Regent’s Park season
he played in “Comus.” The Osborns
farewell to Sydney friends was an outsize
cocktail party last Thursday. Another
Sydney young man who is coming along
nicely on screen and stage is John Woods.
John recently arrived at being caricatured
in “Punch.” Sydney screen fans will
see him in “Over She Goes.”
A traveller to America whom the
city will miss is Mrs. Edmund Play-
fair. With daughter Mrs. H. B. Mc-
Murdo and granddaughter Dahlis, she
goes off next Friday. The Colonel Play-
fairs’ partv for them to-morrow after-
noon will bring half the cars in Sydney
to Gladswood Gardens.


QUALITY OF OUR
AUSTRALIAN WINES
VINDICATED!!
Extract from a report published in a leading Melbourne journal, dated July 20, 1937.
« A WINE-TASTING ceremony of very
much interest, not only to the wine
industry, but to the public generally, took
place on Thursday, July 8, at the offices of
the Department of Public Health, Queen
Street, Melbourne.
“Inspectors of this Department had
collected from all types of licensees through-
out the Melbourne metropolitan area samples
of wine to ascertain their conformity to the
requirements of the Victorian Public Health
Act.
“It is well known that very bad impres-
sions often are conveyed to the public by
reason of police court proceedings, reported
in the daily press, in which the culprit
attributes —and too often finds excuse from
the presiding magistrate—in his plea that his
lapse was due to the deleterious nature of the
Australian wine imbibed by him. Having
this well in mind, those invited to the tasting
were most agreeably surprised at the
uniformly good quality of the samples
collected, not one of which could be classed
as in any way contributing to, or adequate
reason for, a breach of the common law.
COULD ONLY BE BENEFICIAL.
“It must be borne in mind that the
samples examined were drawn from just the
sources where delinquencies might be
expected; namely, the poorer or industrial
suburbs, and the tasting afforded still further
proof that such cases are the result not of the
use, but of the abuse, of good Australian
wine. It was the definite consensus of opinion
of those present at the tasting, who are all
qualified by long experience to express such
an opinion, that not one of the wines sub-
mitted could be aught but beneficial when
consumed in normal proportions.
“One definite result, not only of this par-
ticular tasting, but of similar and previous
ones, is that the mythical concoction variously
known as ‘pinkie/ ‘plonk/ or by any of the
other disparaging terms, remains just as diffi-
cult to establish as the Loch Ness monster/’
THE SAME QUALITY WINES ARE
SUPPLIED TO OUR N.S.W. MARKET
L vj *
And the State Public Health Department’s Officers from
time to time take samples of wines with other alcoholic bever-
ages throughout the licensed trade and submit same to
intensive analysis, and on no occasion for several years have
they found anything deleterious to health in the samples of
wines tested.
THE WINE ADULTERATION ACTS
administered by the Public Health Departments in each State are among
THE MOST STRINGENT PURE FOOD ACTS
IN THE WORLD
, / . - ‘ . .... . . - . \
and were specially enacted by the Legislature in each State to
ENSURE THAT ALL WINES SOLD TO THE PUBLIC
ARE
PURE AND WHOLESOME
. ■.. L. ... ..-..A
Inserted by the Australian Wine Producers * Association of N.S.W.


We keep nearly 100 cows in regular
employment providing our milk and cream.
It's a big job. this Victoria job. You ask Straw-
berry—her quota is just 600 gallons Of course
the Victoria is the largest, most modern hotel
in Australia It accommodated a quarter million
guests last year! Tariff from 4/- to 7/6 Single
room. 8/- to 16/- Double room
| 201-229 LIT COLLINS STREET. MELBOURNE. Cl (Next town Hall)
F
VICTORIA PALACE
Divorce Notice.
TO EREMA MARY PORTER wife of Ellison
Edward Porter formerly of Waipukurau but
now of Milton Public Servant.
TAKE NOTICE that a citation has been issued
out of the Supreme Court of New Zealand at
Dunedin citing you to appear and answer the
petition of ELLISON EDWARD PORTER for-
merly of Waipukurau but now of Milton Public
Servant wherein he prays for a divorce from
you on the ground of desertion and such cita-
tion intimates that in default of your so doing
the Court will proceed to hear the said petition
and to pronounce sentence therein notwithstand-
ing your absence NOW THEREFORE TAKE
NOTICE that for the purpose aforesaid you are
on or before the Bth day of October 1937 to
attend in person or by your Solicitor at the
Supreme Court Office at Dunedin and there to
enter an appearance without which you will not
be allowed to address the Court at any stage of
the proceedings. A copy of the said citation and
petition will be supplied to you on your applying
for the same at the Supreme Court Office
at Dunedin.
DATED this 30th day of July, 1937.
(L.s.) D. C. E. WEBSTER.
Deputy-Registrar.
Friends of the Respondent are particularly re-
quested to forward to her the foregoing adver-
tisement.
ROY STANLEY FRAPWELL is the Solicitor
for the Petitioner, whose address for service is
at the office of the said ROY STANLEY FRAP-
WELL, situate at the United Friendly Societies’
Building, Corner of Princes Street and Moray
Place. Dunedin.
Melbourne
Chatter
Hot scones, usually a special feature
at afternoon-tea on race days at Caul-
field, were missing on Saturday. On the
last day of the Australian Steeplechase
the gas strike was in full blast, and the
scones suffered. Among country visitors
was E. R. Twomey, of Langulac, Pens-
hurst, whose father collared the Sydney
Cup in 1871 with Mermaid. The smart-
est thing in hats was aired by Mary Zim-
merman, a youthful Monterey tourist
from Los Angeles ; it was a high-crowned
white ballibuntal with a big navy-blue
bow like a nursery sash dangling at the
back.
We seem to be heading for ani-
mated millinery, judging by the bits that
were fluttering from headgear at this
meeting. Every new hat sported a
follow-me-lad, a wisp of veil or bow and
ends. A lady in grey, with primrose
gloves and a vest to match, had a scarf
drapery of grey ninon floating from the
back of her Glengarry-shaped hat, which
was first cousin to the old-time gossamer.
Several of the inter-State sportswomen
who are competing in the Australian golf
championship tournament took the after-
noon off to see the gee-gees. Mrs. Clive
Robinson, of N. S. Wales, frocked in
black lighted up with porcelain bead
trimming, and a fascinating veil over
her tiny black ta-ta, looked as if she had
never swung a club in her life. A vivid
blue beret sat rakishly on Louise Lovely’s
platinum-blonde head. Japanese in design
was the grey feather-flower motif form-
ing a sketchy pattern on the dark-blue
frock worn by Mrs. Les Falkiner. The
frock was even more attractive than the
swing coat in two shades of grey which
hid it half the time. Amid the grey-
suited young battalion marched Jean
Mitchell, who brightened clerical grey
with a hat and jumper of mulberry red.
Mrs. R. A. Stuart, with a brace of silver
foxes slung about her slim shoulders and
a crimson flower-decked hat, combined
winter and spring.
The sun played hide and seek and the
atmosphere was a bit nippy for the
Findon Harriers’ Hunt Club race meeting
at the Valley. The Master of Findon,
Bill Seymour, and the Master of Mel-
bourne, Charles Moore, with the aid of
their decorative wives, held up the official
dignity of the event. These dames’ out-
fits both struck a sporty note. A hat
with a peak not unlike a jockey’s cap
rested on the blonde head of Mrs. Sey-
mour, while Mrs. Charles donned a
smart swing coat figured in red, white
and blue checks. The secretary of Fin-
don, R. M. Cuthbertson, a great horse-
man, was having a day off to his liking.
Doreen Fairchild, one of our hunting
lasses, favored dark-blue. Mrs.- Fred
Mollard kept herself cosy in a coat of
skunk hair and Arctic fox. Fox fur in
light chocolate shade accented the smart-
ness of Mrs. Cowlishaw’s petrel-blue
coat.
At the cabaret ball staged by the
Royal Victorian Aero Club at the Palais
de Danse on Thursday evening there were
times when dancers could not hear them-
selves speak for the whirring overhead.
Symbolical decorations merged with the
two blues and the gold. Official visitors
supped at a triangle-shaped table centred
with propellers and strewn with violets.
Stella Power, in the role of hostess, wore
a trailing black robe splashed with jet
spangles, with pink flowers cascading
from shoulder to waistline, and an im-
pressive gold headpiece with pearl knobs.
Many dinner parties were given before
the dance. Mrs. Cecil McKay, one of
the official party, played for simplicity in
hair ornamentation by tucking a tiny
sprig of daphne amid the waves. Long
black gloves made an effective finish to
her black-and-pink floral frock, the train
of which she threw over her arm when
she danced. Mrs. Hugh Mitchell, wife
of the medico who sometimes goes soar-
ing in an autogyro, tucked a blue-and-
pink posy into the waistline of her raven-
blue velvet frock. In the party of the
acting-president, Cyril Power, was Kitty
Sleight, with her dark, sleek shingle
showing above shadow lace as blue as
that joyous creeper morning glory.
Schneevoigt, at the orchestral concert
on Saturday night, paid a pretty compli-
ment to violinist Edouard Lambert and
lass Ziebell, sitting next him on the con-
cert platform, by decorating them with
his own laurels. Vera Bradford appeared
in a frock with an old-world air, her
satin brocade being patterned in a floral
design like old-fashioned wallpaper. The
fur erf furs was on the back of Mrs. N.
Chaldjian, whose figure was swathed in
yards and yards of wondrous ermine—
the kind of coat rarely seen outside film-
land. Another fur garment that did not
pass unnoticed was the long cape of
monkey - fur, black - and - white, which
covered the shoulders of Mrs. Mortill.
When the Minister for Trade and
Customs at a meeting of the A.W.N.L.
at Elwood the other night could not ex-
press an opinion in regard to why British
immigrants fought shy of coming to this
country, a woman in the audience nearly
knocked him off his perch. “Australia
House should have a clean-up or be
wiped off the map. It is nothing but a
sepulchre, and serves no useful purpose.
What the place needs is a staff of Aus-
tralians with intelligence and initiative.”
The spokeswoman was Helen Maxwell,
who has upset the theory that a woman
has no head for figures by building up
a successful business in real estate. The
other night she bought and sold Colonel
T. White in political argument, and since
the meeting she has been approached ‘to
stand for a seat in the forthcoming elec-
tions.
A German nobleman and his young
wife are going to make Melbourne their
home for a while, Baron von Oertzen
finding a business life more to his liking
than twiddling his thumbs in a feudal
castle. As export manager of a motor
business he has done much travelling in
recent years. Here is a picture of the
Baroness taken by Broothorn, and she
is even more charming than she looks.
On her slender wrist she wears a brace-
let made of elephant’s hair, a memento
of an episode when she was travelling
and camping out with her husband in
East Africa. The beast that grew this
hair nearly did for both of them. In a
baby car, with her husband at the wheel,
Baroness von Oertzen travelled hundreds
of miles through East Africa, pitching
camp where lanterns had to be hoisted
high to scare off wild animals at night;
but, in spite of everything, she did not
find Darkest Africa as black as it has
been painted. Taking the degree of
Doctor of Political Economy at the
Munich University has not stifled the
Baroness’s domestic interests. Australia’s
abundance of fruit and vegetables sets
her yearning to set up housekeeping here.
This couple found India picturesque,
but not health-giving, and they are only
now pulling themselves together after a
bout of sickness. 'Their only child, a
boy aged three, Klaus Detlof, is being
brought up in the way he should go by
relatives in' North Germany.
Already feminists are on their toes
preparing for the State election fray. No
sooner had Rachel Robinson dropped out
of the running than Mrs. Lille Kloot
bobbed up as a candidate for Albert
Park. Most people know Mrs. Kloot
only as a social service worker, but
before coming to Australia she had
graduated at the University of St.
Andrews, Scotland. In addition to her
degree she is one of the six women in
the world entitled to the letters M.R.S.T.
(Member of the Royal Society of
Teachers). She was well on the way to
winning great distinction in London as
a teacher when Cupid got busy and took
her off her course. She married a Digger
and sailed for Australia. That was 18
years ago. Her family of three is no
longer tied to her apron strings, so
mother is now more or less a free agent,
Lille Kloot has a neat and tidy mind,
and when she rises to speak all her facts
are well marshalled. There are never
any stray bits and loose ends. Her in-
terest in education has attracted her to
special forms of social service, such as
vocational guidance, kindergartens, the
cinema council, mothers clubs associated
with State schools, and the National
Safety Council, in each of which she
holds office. Lately, just as a sideline,
she has been giving energetic suppoit to
a free book distributing society. Only a
few months old, this is a very lively
youngster for its age. Some of the tour
thousand volumes that have been col-
lected and passed on have found their
way into orphanages, hospitals and Pen-
tridge gaol.
When Girlie Tubb became engaged to
Leo Stach in June, she thought she
would have at least a year to get a few
things together. But a month ago this
young scientist decided to accept a posi-
tion at Daru, Papua, and wedding plans
were accelerated. Despite the short
notice, Miss Tubb appeared at the altar
on Saturday in the full splendor of bridal
array, with bridesmaids, bouquets and
everything. The orange-blosssm about
the bridal brow was fashioned from buds
and blossoms that had been worn by
mother and grandmother. The prayer-
book carried by the bride had been a
gift from father to mother on their
wedding day 25 years ago. Margaret
Wookey, Elsie Stach and Evelyn Tubb in
their blossom-pink tulle frocks, with their
heads in hooded capes and carrying tuMe
muffs, were just a shade deeper in color
tone than the satin-clad bride. Even the
wedding cake was pink. Leo Stach has
been appointed Assistant Geologist to
the Island Exploration Co. He is a
Master of Science and has done research
work in geology and zoology. He starts
to break new ground in Papua at the age
of 23. By the time he is settled in his
new quarters his brother-in-law, Alan
Tubb, a fellow-student at the University,
will also have entered upon new duties
with Dr. Harold Thompson, doing
fisheries research at Port Hacking
(N.S.W.). Mrs. Stach, who was chris-
tened Haydee by the clergyman who
married her at St. John’s, Toorak, is the
only daughter of the F. A. Tubbs, of
Glen Iris. The picture of the bride is
by Broothorn.
Janet Landale, who went to London to
don feathers and finery for the curtsy
at Buckingham Palace when the Corona-
tion gaieties were in full swing, was
greeted and congratulated simultaneously
last week. News of her engagement to
Bob Morton, only son of the Robert
Morton pair, of Malvern, was announced
at a welcome-home party given by her
aunt, the Knox lady. This lass’s family
history is linked with that of early Mel-
bourne. When her great-grandfather
arrived the place was a forest of big trees.
Janet is a granddaughter of the baronet
William Clarke and his lady, monarchs
of social Melbourne toward the end of
last century. Cliveden Mansions, now
a block of flats, was built to their order
on Park-lane lines. Janet can gaze at
memorials in two city gardens marking
the civic service of grandma and grandpa.
Dr. M. McAlister, who has been
appointed Director of Music of the Mel-
bourne Youth Musical Society, formed
recently, composed three operas whilst
Court Musician to the Maharajah of
Patiala and Bharatphur, and has also
produced several pianoforte composi-
tions. A committee that includes the
Gengoult Smith and Leitch ladies and
knight Harry Lawson is supporting the
new venture.
The American skiers, Captain Dur-
rance and young Loughnan, here to play
a match against Victorians at Mount
Buller, were welcomed by the Ski Club
of Victoria at a cabaret ball on the night
of their arrival. They turned up in their
everyday togs and walking shoes, both
looking very weary and travel-stained.
Seemingly they had been rushed from the
overland trip to the ball without a spell
for a clean-up. Their Victorian escort
on the overland trip came along in grey
flannel pants and a blazer.
Of all American boosting methods the
one that most intrigued Mrs. Adrian
Boccard, a Melbourne business woman,
was the crowing at a chain of luxury
restaurants which specialises in “sizzling
platters.” She was not allowed to forget
that the chicken she was eating had been
“hothouse raised,” and that was not all.
That chicken’s feet had never touched the
ground. It was brought up on an ele-
vated screen to prevent contamination.
Its flavorsome quality was due to the en-
forcing of a Pure Food Act in the poultry
run. The customer who preferred duck-
ling learnt that her bird had been raised
exclusively for the cafe at a farm in
Virginia. The proprietor was just as
fussy about fish as fowl. His lobsters
travelled by fast express daily from
Maine’s blue waters to New York City.
But the Australian visitor had to admit
that the food lived up to its boost. The
platters really sizzled when they were
brought to table. The presentation of
food has become one of the fine arts
in New York. On view in the window
of a de luxe cafe this visitor saw what
she took to be an exquisite 1830 bouquet,
but she found that the green leaves were
but green peas, and that all the flowers
had been simulated with root vegetables
—a chef’s contribution to decorative art.
Florists, drapers and caterers will not
welcome the growing popularity of the
quiet wedding. There are still plenty who
love confetti and fuss, but there is a
definite trend toward strictly-private cere-
monies. Last week Marjorie Lempriere,
descendant of one of ,our pioneer
families, and Robert Craig, of the De-
fence Department, got married at St.
Mary’s, Caulfield. Marjorie is a niece
of the late Henrietta Walker, and often
made long stays at that lady’s rustic re-
treat in Ringwood. After the wedding
Frank Walker gathered a few friends to-
gether at 9 Darling-street, South Yarra,
to wish the couple all the best. Marjorie
has made several appearances on the
amateur stage, mostly in Adelaide. She
can claim family relationship with the
great Sarah Scott Siddons.
Eric Davies, who is associated with
the oil industry in Burma, is spending
part of his furlough in Australia so that
his wife may spend a little time with her
father at the old home, St. Clears,
Stawell. Mrs. Eric, formerly Mollie
Anthony, is slimmer than when she
passed through here about four years
ago, and consequently right in the line
of fashion. The average woman looks
her worst in all black, but Mollie can
wear it right up to her ears and look
chic. She has been given a warm wel-
come here by “old girl” friends.


SPREAD YOUR SAVINGS
Safely Over the Shares of
20 Noted Companies
To-day, investors small and large can do this in
one operation through a purchase of FIRST
AUSTRALIAN UNIT TRUST CERTIFICATES.
For as little as £25 (approx.) you can obtain an
interest in 20 of Australia’s strongest and
soundest Companies engaged in a variety of
enterprises. Y our money is safeguarded by
Custodian Trustees: UNION INSURANCE
SOCIETY OF CANTON, LTD., Union Building,
Bond Street, Sydney, who collect all income and
distribute it twice-yearly to Certificate Holders—
without any deduction whatsoever. The invest-
ment is realisable at any time.
Write for a free descriptive booklet No. I to the
Managers : —
AUSTRALIAN FIXED TRUSTS PTY., LTD.
DIRECTORS :
Victor G. Watson, Esq. (Chairman), formerly Manager, The
Trustees, Executors and Agency Co.. Ltd., Melbourne; Norman
L. Cowper, Esq., Solicitor; Allen, Allen & Hemsley, Sydney;
John A. L. Gunn, F.C.A. (Aust.), Chartered Accountant
(Aust.); Palmer Kent, Esq., Retired Chief Inspector, The Bank
of Australasia.
8-14 BOND STREET, SYDNEY.
Telephone: 85294. Box 4028 V.V., G.P.O.
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
“Zedo”: Another aerial link will be
forged early in 1938 with the establish-
ment of the New Guinea service, for
which three DHB6’s of the type used on
the Darwin-Singapore run are being
built in England. They will run under
Commonwealth subsidy and will bring
the goldfields within a day’s journey from
Sydney. At present the distance can be
covered in a week.
* * * *
“Tuckiar’s Ghost”: Latest Arnhem
news is that a war appears likely to break
out over a dusky Helen; newspapers
have discovered that the Monopolar
tribe has called in reserves even from
the Darwin compound and the lepro-
sarium. I have witnessed a couple of
these “wars,” and they are almost as
noisy and bloodless in reality as they
are in the papers. The armies line up
bristling with spears and exuding the
kind of insult which only abo. languages
can compass. Every
warrior slaps himself, then
spears are thrown and
dodged. Occasionally,
some slow old gentleman
is not quick enough on his
pins and gets hit. Pre-
sently, everybody grows
hoarse and hungry and
goes home. On the whole,
the results are about as
decisive as any modern
war, and far cheaper.
* * *
“X.T.”: Some of the old
black - labor advocates
would rub their eyes if
they could see the success
of the Queensland sugar
industry. Placed in high-
rainfall tropical country
where it used to be an
axiom that the white man
could work only as a plan-
tation overseer of niggers,
sugar is now Queensland’s largest em-
ploying industry, giving direct work to
15,000 people and earning for the State,
for the produce of less than 300,000
acres, about £11,000,000 this year —only
about £1,000,000 less than the wool
return.
* * * *
“Mimax”: Needing in Darwin some
shim brass for car bearings, I found it
unprocurable. The only substitute that
I could expect to find was the thin sheet-
copper containers that opium was some-
times packed in, something after the style
of American tobacco-tins. I knew that
our engine boy, Fong Tsz, was partial
to opium, and asked him to get me some
tins. Fong was deeply scandalised. He
no-savveed opium, no-savvied tins. I
retracted my aspersions, but casually
mentioned that if I found a few empty
tins in a specified corner next day he
would be a dollar richer. He later denied
all knowledge of how those tins got
there, but he did not refuse his reward.
He kept his face and the five bob.
* V * *
“Stump”: Though Innisfail has its
couple of hundred inches a year, there
are places north of 28 where, for all
practical purposes, it never rains. The
Sandover River, which drains the coun-
try west of the Georgina, and which is
supposed to flow into the Mulligan, might
get through once a century or so. Its top
waters have been known to run, anyway.
About that country, in the late ’eighties
or early ’nineties, old man Nathan did
a trip by wagonette. His tracks could
still be followed nearly 40 years later.
West of the Georgina a fire swept all
that country towards the end of 1917.
Four years later there were thousands of
acres which had not had sufficient rain
to wash the chars from the tops of what
had been grass. Further over, in the
“desert” country, though it might have
rained occasionally during a million-odd
years, there is no watercourse, no channel
or gutter and no evidence that there has
ever been enough rain to make the water
run.
* * ❖ *
“Nothung”: Another anomaly in Gov-
ernment “assistance” to western people.
Eurunga station (N.Q.) suffers from
water shortage. So water for homestead
use is bought from Torrens Creek, 10
miles away, at 4s. 6d. a thousand gallons,
and railed. Because of drought, the Gov-
ernment generously deducts 10s. from
freight, but —apparently as an offset to
this —charges 19s. 6d. for stopping the
train, Eurunga not being a recognised
siding. As a result, the water bought in
Torrens Creek at 4s. 6d. is landed at
Eurunga at 275. 6d.
* * * *
“Murlonga”: Queensland Home Sec-
retary Hanlon has been convinced by his
recent tour of the North that the truth
about the Douglas Mawson mystery of
1923 and the tragedy of the white
women supposedly held by Arnhem
“It just sort o’ come away in me 'and, boss!”
blacks is that there never was any mys-
tery ; that the women were drowned.
No one with any knowledge of the abos.
ever had any other idea. An abo. in
that country would have as much chance
of keeping secret that he had white
women in captivity as I have of wear-
ing wings. If he didn’t skite about it
himself, his cobbers would. If they
didn’t rat on him, neighbors would take
a hand.
"Australia Jane's" Budget
At time of writing a hand-picked lot
of debs, were to make their bows to the
Blairs at the United Service Club Ball, in-
cluding daughters of two of Brisbane’s
best-known families. Cynthia Molle,
daughter of Dr. and Mrs. Eric Molle,
of Southport, is a granddaughter of
Mrs. Molle Raff, whose father, the “Lord
of Drayton,” was one of the earliest
settlers on the Downs. Her mother is
a Jardine, niece of the Jardines of
Somerset (N.Q.). Elizabeth King, daugh-
ter of the Hubert Kings, Coorparoo, is a
granddaughter of the late Tom King,
formerly Commissioner for Railways.
Mrs. Evans, wife of the Colonel, was
billed to be matron-of-honor.
The Ambulance Ball was a big suc-
cess, the committee having an energetic
Younger Set to help raise cash, with
Britha Burke heading it. Girls trained
by Brenda McCullough staged “Les
Sylphides” ballet. The Bachelors’ Ball
is to be one of the big events of Show
Week; eligibles from all parts of the
State are collaborating as hosts.
There were numerous private parties
in honor of delegates to the New Educa-
tion Conference, among them that
arranged by Archbishop and Mrs. Wand
at Bishopsbourne, with Dr. and Mrs.
Cyril Norwood as the honored ones.
The official alcove was crammed with
medicoes and their wives at Austral
Motors’ annual ball at the Trocadero.
Mrs. E. M. Tooth, in green chiffon with
shirred shoulder straps and belt, helped
her husband, who was official host.
The fleet is here for Show Week, and
the Governor-General and Lady Gowrie
have issued invitations to several dinners
and other parties aboard H.M.A.S. Aus-
tralia. As well as the Show, the Exhibi-
tion Tennis Tournament and the ninth
annual conference of music teachers are
bringing a lot of visitors to Brisbane.
The Country Women’s Association
has eight lads from western districts as
its Show Week visitors. The big
C.W.A. Pageant at the City Hall is one
of the Week’s main events. It s an
annual affair.
Dr. Susan Isaacs, who stayed with
Freda Bage at the Women’s College, has
several reasons for enjoying her visit to
Brisbane, chief of which was the fact
that she was with her sister, Mrs. Alice
Campbell, of Sydney, whom she had not
seen for 18 years.
Architect Lange Powell’s son Keith,
doing medicine in England, is engaged to
a Dutch lass. The two met at Rickmans-
worth, where a small international group
of students lived at the Rectory—a
French girl, a Dutch girl, a Swedish boy
and the young Queenslander. The little
lady speaks five languages fluently.
At the gathering at the Uni. when
degrees were conferred on some of the
visitors to the Education Conference, the
Blair lady wore brown, one of her favor-
ite shades, and furs. T. C. Beirne,
warden of the Uni., had his daughter,
Mrs. Tom Hooper, with him. Mrs. Paul
Dengler was one of the most strikingly-
gowned of the visitors, in a navy-blue
tailleur, a plateau beret, and sun-glasses
with ivory mounts.
Guests who atended the at-home given
by Norman White and his daughters had
an unexpected thrill. After the news of
Beryl White’s marriage, earlier in the
day, to S. B. Stewart, formerly of Tas-
mania, had been broken, Clarice, the
younger daughter, announced her father’s
engagement to Zoe Frisch.
Rev. James and Mrs. Mursell are
visiting Brisbane. They live in England
now, but for years Mr. Mursell was
minister of the City Tabernacle, and his
wife was an original member of the
Queensland Baptist Women’s Union.
Their only son, also James, Brisbane
Grammar School boy and B.A. of
Queensland Uni., is now Professor of
Psychology at Columbia University, New
York.
About 200 dancers were at the Hotel
Carlton for the annual ball of the Uni.
agricultural and veterinary science stu-
dents, at which Prof. E. J. Goddard and
Prof. H. Seddon were hosts. Elizabeth
Cowan and Norman Shaw were leading
members of the social committee, which
included Aubrey Schindler, L. Newton,
John Groom, Neil Yeats, Graeme Wil-
son and George Moule. Mrs. Goddard
wore black velvet and a jacket of seal-
ing-wax red with a silver fox fur collar.
Archbishop Duhig has acquired the
Grange farm, 22 acres, at Aspley, and
an institution to train boys to trades will
be established there. A community of
Silesian fathers, the second in Australia,
will be established at Aspley, and the
majority of the lads to be trained will
come from institutions similar to the
Nudgee Orphanage.
Heather Moore, Florence Howes,
Jessie Mitchell, Stella Watson, of Tanda-
wanna, and Edith Lethbridge will be
Arlie Woodhead’s bridesmaids when she
marries Hugh Dalzell Stewart at St.
John’s Cathedral on August 28. The
wedding is to be military, as the ’groom
has a commission in the West York-
shire Regiment, and is attached to 6th
Batt. K.A.R., Dar-es-Salaam. Hie is
the elder son of the late Colonel
Stewart, D. 5.0., M.C., and Mrs. C. L.
Stewart, Rathgar, Ireland.
Staff Ball of the Queensland Brewery
was attended by nearly 800 people. Pro-
ceeds go towards providing Christmas
cheer for children’s homes. May Cop-
pinger deputised for her mother, who
was unable to attend, and patron J.
Coppinger had a party in the official
alcove.
City Hall was crowded for the World
Flight Pageant, which added to the funds
of the Playgrounds Association and the
C.W.A. Edgar Ferguson wrote the
pageant, which provided an opportunity
for a fashion parade that included every-
thing from garden-party frocks to bath-
ing suits. There was a matinee, as well
as the night show, and the hall was
packed for both.


mm.
0
A
\iJrk
m
--v
a
A
e
Family
Safeguard
always
Remember that the health of
every member of your family
and their freedom from infectious
ailments are dependent upon their
own natural powers of resistance.
To be quite sure that the dietary
provides all the essential food ele-
ments, make delicious “Ovaltine”
the regular daily beverage. “Oval
tine” is a complete and perfect food,
scientifically prepared from ingred-
ients of the finest quality. It is
unequalled for building up body,
nerves and brain and maintaining
resistance at the highest level.
For abundant energy and glowing
health “Ovaltine” should be the
daily beverage of everyone.
TRIAL SAMPLE: A generous trial
sample of “Ovaltine”, sufficient to make
four cupsful, will be sent on receipt of
3d. in stamps, to cover the cost of pack-
ing and postage. See address below.
Nett Weight INCREASED 12£% in all sizes.
Small Size:
4joz. 1/9
Medium Size:
9oz. 2/10
Large Size:
18oz. 5/-
OVALTINE’
A. WANDER LIMITED, 1 YORK STREET NORTH, SYDNEY.
Listen in to the Ovaltiney Concert Party broadcast
from Station 2GB at 5.30 p.m. every Sunday.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1203 of 1937.
BETWEEN PEARL BEATRICE MARY
HYDE Petitioner
And JOHN HYDE Respondent.
TO JOHN HYDE late of Leeton New South
Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said PEARL BEAT-
RICE MARY HYDE has commenced a suit
against you in this Honorable Court and is
applying for a dissolution of marriage on the
ground of desertion for three years without
just cause or excuse AND TAKE NOTICE
that you are required to enter an appearance
to the said suit at the proper office of this
Honorable Court on or before the Tenth
day of November One thousand nine hundred
and thirty-seven and in the event of your not
doing so within the time limited or obtaining
further time the Petitioner will proceed and the
suit be heard your absence notwithstanding. A
copy of the petition filed herein may be had
on application to the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this Eleventh day of August One
thousand nine hundred and thirty-seven.
For the Registrar,
(1.5.) E. F. LENNON,
Clerk in Divorce.
JAMES W. YOUNG, Solicitor for the Peti-
tioner, 84 Pitt Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1220 of 1937.
BETWEEN EMMA RYAN Petitioner
And RICHARD RYAN Respondent.
TO RICHARD RYAN late of King Street
Newcastle.
TAKE NOTICE that the said EMMA RYAN
has commenced a suit against you in this
Court and is applying for a dissolution of mar-
riage on the grounds of desertion AND TAKE
NOTICE that you are required to enter an
appearance to the suit at the proper office of
this Court on or before the Fifth day of
November 1937 AND in the event of your not
doing so within the time limited or obtaining
further time the Petitioner will proceed and the
said suit be heard and determined your absence
notwithstanding. A copy of the petition filed
herein may be had on application to the
undersigned free of charge.
DATED this Sixth day of August, 1937.
For the Registrar in Divorce,
(1.5.) E. F. LENNON,
Clerk in Divorce.
WILLIAM ALSTON TEBBUTT, Solicitor
for Petitioner, 28 Martin Place, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes. Jurisdiction.
No. 1148 of 1937.
BETWEEN ELSIE GLADYS ARMS Petitioner
And FRANCIS ARLINGTON ARMS Re-
spondent. m , ,
TO FRANCIS ARLINGTON ARMS late of
Hamilton Newcastle.
TAKE NOTICE that the said ELSIE
GLADYS ARMS has commenced a suit against
you in this Court and is applying for a dis-
solution of marriage on the grounds of deser-
tion; AND TAKE NOTICE that you are re-
quired to enter an appearance to the said suit
at the proper office of this Court on or before
the Thirtieth day of October next and in the
event of your not doing so within the time
limited or obtaining further time the Petitioner
will proceed and the suit be heard and deter-
mined your absence notwithstanding. A copy
of the petition filed herein may be had on
application to the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this sixth day of August, 1937.
For the Registrar,
E. J. LENNON,
Clerk in Divorce.
A ALISTER JOHNSON, Solicitor for the
Petitioner, 17 Bolton Street, Newcastle ; by this
Agents, N. CHERRY WILLIS & CORCORAN,
Solicitors, 56 Hunter Street, Sydney.
THE LITTLE SISTERS.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
The annual meeting of the Victoria
League in the Town Hall was a big social
gathering, as, owing to the pending
departure of the Governor and Lady
Dugan, it constituted a farewell party.
Lady Dugan's Gloucester-green ensemble
was trimmed with brown fox-fur and her
hat was a green tarn beret. She was pre-
sented with a bouquet of violets and
roses. Lady Mayoress Barrett was there,
Czechoslovakian Consul Raymond H.
Cato, Glenunga, and his wife gave a party
as a setting for the investiture of J. H.
Vaughan, a former Consul for the Re-
public, with-the Order of the White Lion.
The ceremony opened with “God Save,”
followed by the Czechoslovakian national
anthem, “My Home Land.” After Mr.
Vaughan was decorated he was toasted by
the guests, and “Mnoga geta Zivio”
(“Many years may you live”) was sung.
The Czechoslovakian flag was hung
above a bowl of red, white and blue
flowers.
The dogs’ coronation party held on
the Wayville showground brought in
over £4OO for the R.S.P.C.A. Lady
Dugan on her arrival passed through a
guard of honor of 22 Alsatian dogs, each
wearing a ruffle of red, white and blue
ribbon. She was welcomed by president
of the society David Gordon, and her
Australian terrier took part in the parade,
The principal prize-winners were Elinor
Melrose, dressed as a shepherdess, and
lier English sheep-dog, and Elizabeth
Bronner with her Alsatian. The judge
had a difficult task when it came to de-
ciding which dog had the most sym-
pathetic eyes among 44 contestants, the
prize being finally given to an Airedale
belonging to E. Morris.
Chancellor Murray and Vice-Chan-
cellor Mitchell entertained about 300
guests in the Refectory after the opening
of the new footbridge across the Torrens
River at the foot of the University
grounds, giving access to the oval. Eva
and Lily Waite had given £2OOO to con-
struct the bridge and beautify the river-
banks.
E-S.U. members were entertained at
Kahmna the home of the E. W Hol-
dens, Kent Town, when Dr. Violet
Plummer gave her impressions of her
recent trip to Japan The guests were
received by the president of the Adelaide
branch, E W. Benham and his wife.
Vina Barnden played and Prof. A. E. V
Richardson showed lantern pictures of
Nippon. .
Vina Barnden s farewell recital realised
over £l3O. The Town Hall was crowded
Margaret Pirie, who is filling the principal
role in “Viktoria and Her Hussar sang,
her accompanist being Topsie Doneau.
Lady Dugan was present.
The Naval and Military Ball at the
Palais Royal drew a large crowd. The
Governor and Lady Dugan were received
by Colonel and Mrs. W. Fowler-Browns-
worth and a guard of honor formed by
officers in mess uniform. One deb., Alice
Bailey, was presented to his Ex.
Patricia, one of the twin daughters of
Dr. and Mrs. H. W. D. Stoddart, of
Glenelg, exchanged vows with John,
eldest son of the J. F. Pilgrims, of
Kingswood, at St. Peter’s, Glenelg. The
bride was gowned in cream satin beaute,
cut on princess lines, with pearl em-
broidery down the front panel and out-
lining the deep-V neckline. The long
train from the waist was edged with a
narrow ruching of the satin. The bridal
veil of cream tulle, lent by Mrs. Gilbert
Jose, was held in place by a coronet of
orange-blossom. The three bridesmaids
were bride’s twin, Peg, her younger sister
Judith, and the bridegroom’s sister, Mar-
garet Pilgrim, frocked alike in daffodil-
toned chiffon, with waist-length capes
shirred up the back, forming wing sleeves.
The high neckline was finished with tiny
bunches of primroses. Crownless chiffon
swathed toques and sheaves of daffodils
and primroses completed the picture.
After-rejoicings occurred at the South
Australian.
Most of the wedding guests were enter-
tained again later at a sherry party given
by the J. H. Morishes in John Martin’s
hall, where the bridesmaids attended in
full regalia.
WESTRALIA.
Naval and military uniforms, glittering
decorations and the ceremonial attire of
officials of the House graced the opening
of Parliament. The Mitchell lady’s
favorite violets were well to the fore; a
cluster nestled in the folds of her heavy
purple crepes, and its twin sister peeped
from the soft warmth of her silver-fox
furs. The two women members were
bright spots among their sombrely-clad
confreres. Mrs. Cardell-Oliver incor-
porated several shades of green in her
wool de Chine outfit, and May Holman s
musquash coat semi-concealed striking
royal-blue crepes. The President’s and
Speaker’s rooms, bright with Iceland
poppies, marigolds and golden broom,
housed the hordes of official guests tea-
ing with John Kirwan and A. H. Panton.
Huge logs burning in the open fire-
places were a boon to the hardy souls
who braved the elements for Lake Kar-
rinyup Country Club’s dance. The deco-
rative scheme was planned to give cheer-
ful welcome with the warm color of
wattle, poppies and bowls of massed
wildflowers. Dorothy Howe’s long violet
velvet coat covered the chilliness of her
diaphanous black nets, Mrs. Ray Sand-
over, perpetually cold after her recent
trip to Malaya, wrapped herself in a
length of gold-encrusted brown velvet,
and Barbara English Clarke’s snug
autumn-tinted drapings were wound with
a twisted green-and-scarlet sash. Mrs.
D. D. Paton, with a cruise to Fiji with
her medico husband in the offing, wore
orchids with her filmy ninon.
The Alliance Fran?aise wound up its
winter season with a cheerful soiree at
the Karrakatta Club. President Dr.
Gelle, with his black-crepe-clad wife at
elbow, did the honors, and Patti Rees
arranged the programme. Miss Poig-
nand’s experiences in Hollywood made
an amusing lecturette, Andre Bellanger
described his travels through the South
of France, and the programme-arranger
took the leading role in a playlet “Le
Fabricant de ReVes.”
An irresistible magnet to Perth’s art
lovers was the Norman Lindsay exhibi-
tion at Pastoral House. “Galleon’s End’’
had a constant coterie of admirers, and
“Booty,” “Spoil” and “Loot” attracted a
crowd of devotees.
The first full-length play venture of
the Society of Playwrights made its bow
at the crowded Repertory Theatre for
two consecutive nights. Joint authors
Dick Cullen and Phil Masel looked into
the future as far as 1957 and called
their effort “The Crystal Bowl.” Mrs.
Momber was producer, and Gwen Bick-
ford, Betty Campbell, Hedley Freedman
and Ben Sainken bore the brunt of the
acting, with assistance from Mrs. C.
Treadgold, Peggy Telford and Claude
Freedman.
The funds of the South Perth Infant
Health Centre look plumper after a dance
organised by members of the committee
at Mends-street Hall. Mrs. V. Abjornson,
in clinging black velvet, looked after
arrangements, and Sister Courthope,
whose advice builds many bonny babies,
diversified her black ninons with gold
thread. Mrs. Oscar Zehnder decorated
brown angel-skin lace with autumn-toned
tulips, Mrs. O. Vetter’s net trimmings
frothed over blush-pink satin, and Mrs.
Gordon Darcy’s leaf-green taffetas were
cut Victorianwise.
The exodus of Perth medicoes and
dentists found many wives accompany-
ing their husbands to join in the gaieties
attendant on the conferences in Adelaide
and Melbourne. Mrs. Gilbert Troup will
spend a few days in Melbourne with her
parents, Charles Power and his lady, be-
fore flying back to Adelaide for the
doings. Mrs. Claude Morlet and Mrs.
Lindsay Male will join in the Adelaide
fun, and Mrs. Bernard Summers will be
one of the Melbourne revellers.
After five months’ honeymooning ’midst
Coronation splendors Lud Mayor Poyn-
ton and his bride were welcomed home.
Civic fathers and their womenfolk extended
greetings in the council chambers, where
Mrs. H. J. Simper was proxy for Acting-
Lady Mayoress Langley, who is holiday-
ing at Singapore. Mrs. Poynton, her
cigar-brown English tweeds topped with
furs and clasping an o.s. in autumn-toned
bouquets, chatted of official doings, musi-
cal feasts and the highlights of the flit
home through the U.S.A.
Mavis, second daughter of the J. J.
Holmeses, of West Perth, has announced
her intention of sharing parochial duties
with the Rev. Harry Baxter. Fiance is
an offsider to newly-created Canon Still-
well.
TASMANIA.
Deputy-Mayor L. H. Saunders and
Mrs. Saunders invited a big throng of
guests to the Town Hall to a. reception
in honor of the fourth anniversary of
Governor Clark’s arrival. Bouquets,
floral and verbal, were handed to the
guests of honor, and there was an atmo-
sphere of genuine goodwill about the
gathering. The Clarks have made many
friends and no enemies in the Speck.
The V.A.D. people got busy and ran
a dance at the Continental to raise funds
for the Ist Hobart Detachment. Lady
Clark, in black crepe, was present, and
the official party included new District
Commandant Col. Durrant and Mrs.
Durrant.
The Richmond troop of the 22nd Light
Horse staged an at-home at Richmond
Town Hall, to which about 360 guests
turned up. In the official party were
Col. Blacklow, Major Cruickshank,
Major and Miss Perkins, Captain and
Mrs. T. B. Macleod, Lieut, and Mrs.
R. G. Swan, the M. H. Swans, the C.
Lewises, Dr. and Mrs. Clark.
The R. A. Gregorys, Highfields, Long-
ford, entertained at the Brisbane Hotel,
Launceston, to mark their silver wed-
ding. A big crowd of friends rolled up
to give congratulations, drink cocktails
and present gifts. Flowers were in pro-
fusion. Mrs. Gregory wore a smartly-
cut, perfectly plain frock of black woollen
stuff with a little toque and a skunk cape.
The Catholic Women’s Social Guild
ran a big reception in honor of Arch-
bishop Simonds; their first greeting of
the new wielder of the crook. About 150
members and guests were there. St.
Joseph’s College Hall was transformed
into a charming reception-room for the
occasion.


NEW
Hi
m
\
..SOUTH AFRICA
For full particulars, apply to all offices of
DALGETY & CO. LTD.
(Incorporated in England)
Agents South African Railways throughout Australia and New Zealand.
The Long White Cloud
Lesson for Canberra
Australians who are beginning to ex-
pect nothing more than nebulous plati-
tudes from political leaders will envy
Maorilanders the open manner in which
Prime Minister Savage, immediately on
arrival, detailed his opinions and stand
on various Imperial Conference subjects.
There was no delay to see if the country
agreed ; he was prepared to back him-
self and his Government in scorn of
possible consequences.
■Not so Prime Minister Lyons. To every
important question asked him on his re-
turn from London, Mr. Lyons replied
that the subject would be “dealt with
later by Cabinet or in the policy speech.”
He was “gratified”
with results, and felt
the conference would
“go down in history as
one which had a pro-
found effect on inter-
national relationships.”
The shockingly frank
Mr. Savage was not
“gratified.” Concerning
a report dealing with
economic aspects of
foreign affairs, he con-
fided in Maoriland that
he had told Conference
it was “bunkum from
end to end.” He im-
mediately announced
details of the Tasman
Sea air service agree-
ment, and he was more
frank on the subject
of Maoriland’s defence
than Mr. Parkhill has
ever been to Australia.
And, although he placidly supported
Mr. Lyons’s Pacific peace pact proposal,
Mr. Savage doesn’t think it will “go
down in history.” He was honest enough
to tell his people that it was “probably
only a gesture for the benefit of Aus-
tralian electors ; but it is better to talk
at one another than shoot at one an-
other.”
One does not have to agree with
Maoriland Labor’s policy points to admit
that Mr. Savage and his Cabinet can
give Canberra a lesson in how to respect
the intelligence of the people.
“Fergus”: Mention of progress at the
New Plymouth airport, one of the finest
’dromes in Maoriland and now the half-
way stop for North Island main-trunk
Lockheeds (B. 11/8/’37), reminds me
that the man largely responsible for its
successful establishment is now in Syd-
ney business. ' He is Stan Nielson, who
sold up his Taranaki accountancy prac-
tice and crossed the Tasman to try his
dictaphone in Australian commerce.
When the New Plymouth Aero Club was
formed in 1928-29, he became secretary,
and under his management the club ex-
panded sufficiently to obtain a lease over
the Bell Block property which he later
persuaded New Plymouth’s city fathers
to acquire for a municipal airport. To
prove his belief that it would be the
Maoriland terminal for any trans-
Tasman air service operated by land
machines, he told Kingsford Smith all
about the ’drome. Then he accompanied
that great Australian flier in the South-
ern Cross on the flight from Sydney to
New Plymouth in January, 1933.
* * * *
“Mak”: Ragwort is back in the
Maoriland news. The Cawthron Insti-
tute is said to be hot on the trail of an
enemy bug. The darned weed has prob-
ably sickened more newspaper reporters
than it has stock; its “menace” is an
evergreen subject for resolutions at the
hundreds of farmers’ meetings in most
Maoriland country districts. Which is
one good reason why country scribes
make for city pubs at holiday-time. I re-
call one poor fellow whom continued
ragwort discussions drove into the
Methodist ministry—and his first church
was right in a ragwort area! Personally,
I hope it’s a vicious and effective bug that
the institute is tracking down. Repeated
ragwort wrangles killed my respect for
pheasants; a fellow told me the weed
was originally imported by a keen
pheasant shot who understood, perhaps
erroneously, that pheasants liked it.
* * * *
“D.N.”: Inaccuracies in Maoriland’s
coastal charts are not all on the safety
side, as in the case of the Timaru break-
water (B. 11/8/’37). Wairarapa Point,
on the eastern coastline up from Well-
ington, sticks much farther out into the
sea than charts indicate ; but there is a
good light. From Palliser Bay round to
Wellington, which is in the direct line
of all shipping approaching Maoriland’s
capital from the east, the coastline is
hardly charted at all. Yes, the survey
ship Endeavour has a lot of work ahead
of it.
* * * *
“Korero”: Not only cloudy weather
has delayed air-mapping in Maoriland
(B. 11/8/’37). After pictures are pro-
cured by ’plane, details must be accu-
rately transferred to maps, and before
Lands and Survey Department officers
can do this plotting they have to check
comparative scale measurements, because
“Good milker? Why , some mornin's I've got to take a couple o' buckets
of milk from her before I can get her hind legs on the ground!”
technical reasons sometimes prevent the
camcra from recordjng ground plans t 0
the required scale. The shape of the
country must be shown by means of
contours, and these are drawn on to the
actual prints ; streams, roads, houses
and other details have to be included.
So air-mapping doesn’t always obviate
the necessity for visits to the territory
by qualified ground parties. In spite of
this, the department has found that map-
pjng f rom a i r pictures is cheaper and
quicker than older methods. Besides the
Hawke’s Bay area already pictured, river
erosion country in Westland and irriga-
tion districts in Central Otago have been
photographed,
* * *
„ Waitot „. Some attempt is being
impro ve Maori housi con .
dj ; which I 'health authorities here be-
„ be respo nsible for much native
sickness Adv P nces of up t 0 £750 are
u • „
£l®, 11 the d^ o^ision P f ‘ cottages for
farmers and indigents. The only similar-
; is , he app | ic f tion o( Minister Lang-
/ , edirt, “in everything now being
att e mpt ed for the benefit of the Maori
people nothing is further from my mind
than the giving of something for nothing,
ln other words ’ those Wlth secunt y must
use others must hel P do the work, and
pensioners are expected to give up a
bit of thel . r Pension money. From one
an gie the idea is all right; it would be
bad for the younger natives to do too
much for them - But the Maons most in
need of decent homes are the old and
those whose “security” is tied up in corn-
naunally-owned land,
* * * *
“Xo”: Not long after the Labor Gov-
ernment made unionism compulsory
Maoriland bank clerks were indignant
to find that it applied to them. In a
few centres their spokesmen uttered
brave words which were as quickly for-
gotten when one of Labor’s blunt Cabinet
members jumped into the verbal fray
with a typically vigorous observation to
the effect that the bank boys would do
as they were told ... or else Had the
bank clerks challenged the power of the
Arbitration Court to fix an award for
clerks, they would'probably have had the
laugh on Labor—the Court of Appeal
has just quashed such an award as apply-
ing to stock and station agents’ employees
in Otago and Southland. Funnily
enough, the appellants don’t seem to have
objected to an award for clerks, but
launched the appeal because they wished
to establish their own trade union as the
bargaining body instead of the Otago
Clerical Workers’ Union!
* * * *
“M.”: It took Marine Department in-
vestigators nearly six years to track down
the facts of life as applying to Maoriland
whitebait (B. 11/8/’37). At first it was
assumed that their parents, the Maoriland
minnow or inanga, spawned at sea and
that the little fish'then swarmed into
tidal streams. It was established by
1931, however, that spawning takes place
in marginal rushes beside tidal rivers and
streams, and that, for the incubation
period, the eggs are cunningly protected
from aquatic enemies. Actual spawning
occurs just after the highest spring tide,
and not until the next spring tide reaches
them does hatching take place. On the
ebb, the larvae are carried seaward, and
they come back in the shoals of little
fish whose ripples, indistinguishable to
inexperienced eyes, so excite Maori and
pakeha netsmen.
* * * *
“F.A.J.”: Canterbury’s enthusiasm for
ice-skating has this winter embarrassed
those whose task it is to care for the
road leading to Mount Harper icefields,
120 miles from Christchurch. The rinks
are at the end of a 20-mile stretch of
road, designed solely for a few settlers ;
the strain of more than 100 cars and
buses in a week-end is too much for it.
The County Council, after talking of
erecting a toll-gate, has been soothed
somewhat by a Government promise to
consider a subsidy of £3 for £l., From
a sporting viewpoint the road is a
national asset, and that local ratepayers
should be expected to meet the cost of
its maintenance, while city-dwellers tear
it to pieces in their spare time, does seem
unreasonable.
* * * *
“Uramao”: Pity Rutherford retired
from the field of wireless experin\enta-
tion. Forty-four years ago at Canter-
bury College, Maoriland, he constructed
a detector with which he was able to re-
ceive ether, waves a distance of about
a mile —the longest at that time. Mar-
coni took out a patent for an improve-
ment on this type of detector and, as
Professor Farr, of Canterbury College,
says, “scored over Rutherford” —who left
“Marconi to become famous as discoverer
of wireless.”
* * * *
Peter Trolove, dead in Christchurch,
aged 73, was Maoriland’s champion
newspaper correspondent. Thousands of
his letters appeared in the Christchurch
“Press,” to which he was faithful for 30
years. Spiritualism was his chief topic,
but he had a cut at anything. A few
weeks ago, when his letters were coming
from a hospital bed, correspondence-
column scribes put the hat round to give
him a writing desk. He passed before
the list closed.
* * * *
“Kiwit”: Evidently to impress on
Prime Minister Savage that he is small
beer overseas, the Christchurch “Press”
has reproduced London “Punch’s” car-
toon of an Imperial Conference defence
discussion. Under the title “The Sen-
sible Dinner Party,” the British lion, the
Canadian moose, the Australian kanga-
roo, the South African springbok and
the Maoriland kiwi are saying “And
let’s meet oftener and oftener” in .reply
to Toastmaster Inskip’s “Gentlemen, the
toast is Imperial Defence.” The Maori-
land editor adds: “‘Punch’ is credited
with giving a true indication of British
public opinion ; find New Zealand.” The
tiny kiwi is crouched between the lion
and the moose and is about the size of
the latter’s hoof. But the “Punch” artist
could have been working to a geographi-
cal perspective—or why the massive and
very alert kangaroo?


The 1 ISLANDS THREE’
(As described in last week’s “Bulletin.”)
N. H. Buchanan, radio engineer re-
sponsible for construction of radio
equipment designed by Don B. Knock
for the Mack'ay 1937 Aerial Expedition,
will supply Bulletin readers m the
Pacific Islands, Northern Territory, and
inland areas with this receiver, as de-
scribed.
The “Islands Three” is ideal for un-
unfailing all-wave reception in tropical
climates. It has such features as solid
brass chassis, impregnated coils,
ceramic insulation, etc.
Price —completely wired and tested,
including valves, headphones, three
“Superdyne” B batteries and 2v.
accumulator £24/9/4
Air-Cell (if required) £l/1/8 extra.
Price complete in table cabinet, with
Amplion Permag speaker in addition to
’phones £2B/14/4
Air-Cell (if required) £l/1/8 extra.
Bulletin receivers, also short-wave,
dual-wave and broadcast receivers and
P.A. amplifier equipment, made to
order,
N. H. BUCHANAN,
Specialist Radio Engineer,
STERLING RADIO CO.,
27-39 ABERCROMBIE STREET,
SYDNEY, AUSTRAEIA.
"RADI O”
The world-wide technical
authority of amateur, short-
wave and experimental radio.
Subscriptions are 18/6 per year in
Australia, acceptable at “Tbe Bulletin
Office, 252 George Street, Sydney.
“Radio” is published monthly in Los
Angeles (U.S.A.) under date as of
the following month; 10 issues yearly,
including special annual number; the
August and September issues (which
would normally appear in July and
August) are omitted.
Copies are mailed to subscribers direct
from U.S.A.
Read “Radio” regularly and keep in
advance of tbe times.
“Radio” is the fastest selling of all
radio magazines—on the bookstall
to-day, sold out to-morrow.
Subscribe direct and be sure of
your copy!
RADIO NEWS.
DON B. KNOCK'S PAGES.
Receivers for the Islands.
, _ , , _ ,
A reader at Rabaul, N.G., has a
few words to say in defence of the
superhet:
“My experience is quite the oppo-
site to that of that Pacific dealer (B.
2/6/’37). I enclose a circuit of a five-valve
set made for me by a Sydney engineer. It
, . , .' , \ * 7 ,
has been absolutely trouble-free, and
has been in operation for nine months.
All I have had to do is to put in a new
sensitivity control. I get wonderful re-
ception on short wave, and all Austra-
lian broadcast stations, including 6WA
Perth at full volume, M.L. and Tas.;
also several American Berlin,
Daventry and Tokio come in at 3 p.m.
I get Daventry on 13 metres, and have
not the slightest trouble in separating
Daventry on 16.85 from D.J.E. on 16.89.
I have found the 16- and 19-metre band
better than any of the others. Daventry
on 31.55 usually has a noise level which
is not present on the 16- or 19-metre
band. The short-wave stations that I
have logged are too numerous to men-
-lio »
LIUAI *
Examination of the circuit shows it
to be a five-valve superhet using six-volt“
valves of conventional type, and for
A.C. operation. This is a horse of a
different color. The contention in B.
2/6/’37 is concerned only with battery
receivers, primarily where the user is
restricted to two-volt valves and dry-
battery plate supply. With an A.C. re-
ceiver, adequate plate supply voltage is
available for distribution through re-
sistor networks, whereas a total of 180
volts for dry batteries is the usual maxi-
mum with a battery receiver. For this
A representative gathering of members of the radio, trade at an informal dinner
at the A.W.A. radio-electric works on 9 / 8/’37. L. P. R. Bean, managing director
of Stromberg-Carlson, said that he had inspected many valve factories overseas, but
that of A. W. Valve Co. was equal to any.
reason, receivers of the T.R.F. type de-
scribed at intervals on this page use
choke impedance coupling of the de-
tector in order to obtain a reasonable
voltage at the plate and to permit high,
gain and better overall performance,
This cannot be obtained with 135 or
even 180 volts maximum supply, where
the resistor must be high enough to
match the valve impedance. If the de-
tec^or j s a triode, the problem is dif-
ferent.
Good superhets for use in the tropics
can be produced, but the weakest link
is the intermediate transformers. To-day
these are available in the Sirufer iron-
cored type with lumped capacity and
variable permeability tuning. The ordi-
nary c heap mica compression condenser
typ e w j[[ no j re tain the peak setting in-
definitely, even if the coils are impreg-
nated against moisture. In the hands
°f inexperienced users, this means
trou ble-
Even as compared with resistance
£?^Ph n S m superhets, a well-designed
T.R.F. receiver still has no I.F.Ts. to
reckon with, and will still bring in all
fhe stations that the superhet will, minus,
it must be admitted, some degree of
selectivity and with less ease of tuning,
Yet it can be produced with adequate
selectivity for the needs of the Islands
an / similar locations, is definitely
quieter in operation than the superhet,
I s ar easier f or /he relatively m-
experienced to maintain in order.
n r k
That Pacific radio dealer adds to
his remarks in B. 2/6/’37: “In design-
ing a tropical set use a separate speaker
and make the receiver as. airtight and
“wog-tight” as possible. If aluminium
is used for the case, duco it, and do not
use aluminium in any of the parts if it
can possibly be avoided. I have
seen aluminium corrode and turn into
what looks like wood ash. Variable con-
densers go dull and let off ash where ex-
posed to the air in an open receiver.
The simpler the set the better the chance
we have of keeping it in order ourselves,
or of finding somebody locally who can
do it for us. One set I have has been
tough on transformers. I sent a couple
to the manufacturers in England ask-
ing why they went phut. They said
‘greenspot’ and specially impregnated
and returned them, free of charge.
They went again, and the makers
treated them again after rewinding. They
still let me down, so I gave one to a
friend who dabbles in radio. He in-
tended to unwind it and see where the
break was. It was useless ; the wind-
ings were green-spotted everywhere. It
seems that waxing is to be avoided. I
find that by shellacking coils they last
indefinitely.”
[Experience shows that such troubles
are likely where windings are impreg-
nated in inferior wax. One Sydney
specialist had trouble until he obtained
a special wax. —D. B. K.]
Directional Receiving Aerial.
Directional aerials are erected in most
cases with an eye to improved trans-
mission in two or more directions.
Aerials permitting an increase in signal
strength by virtue of their directive prop-
erties are equally important applied to
the receiver. The short-wave listener can
easily improve results by using some-
thing more than an ordinary single wire.
The scheme illustrated comes from
“Radio News” (U.S.A.), and is by no
means difficult to put into operation.
Every aerial system has some directivity,
and the ordinary inverted L type, used
by the majority of listeners, is directional
from the lead-in end. Thus if four L-
type aerials are used, radiating to the
four points of the compass, with the lead-
ins at the centre, advantage can be taken
of the full directivity of a signal arriv-
ing from any of these points. The leads
are connected to a four-point switch,
the arm of which connects to the re-
ceiver aerial terminal. It is a simple
matter to select the aerial which gives
the best response.
If, instead of a switch, a system of
plugs and sockets with flexible leads is
used, different aerial combinations could
be taken together, possibly with improved
results. Although the sketch shows the
aerials 100 ft. long, this is not impera-
tive. They could be 50ft. long from the
centre pole holding the lead-in ends. If
this pole is as high as possible, and the
outer poles holding the aerials are about
10ft. or 15ft. high, the aerials will be
still more directional. The system will
then be similar to the early-day
“umbrella” type aerials.
D. B. K.
Bandspread Tuning.
An ingenious method of obtaining
bandspread tuning on short waves comes
from a European source. The regular
tuning condenser is used for the band-
spreading. When the switch is in the
right-hand position, condenser C 2 is
short-circuited and C 3 is left out of
circuit. Normal tuning is then obtained.
With the switch in the left-hand position,
condenser C 2 is connected in series with
the tuning condenser Cl, effectively cut-
ting down the capacity of the latter.
Tuning can then be spread on a small
wave-band. There will be some shifting
of tuning range, and in order to cover the
desired band the trimmer capacity C 3
is shunted across the two series con-
densers. This restores the overall capa-
city to the original value, but permits
bandspreading if Cl is used for tuning.
S. W. T.
Telegraphy or Telephony?
Every now and then somebody stresses
the value of speech transmission in pref-
erence to the “obsolete” telegraphy
method. Radio is always progressing, but
it has by no means reached a stage where
Morse communication can be dispensed
with.
For instance, radio-telephony for avia-
tion purposes is reliable over short dis-
tances, but not when hundreds of miles
intervene. The views of a British aviation
radio instructor are worth noting in this
respect. He says: “Almost all the wire-
less working on the international airways
is carried out on C.W. telegraphy. Tele-
graphy is so much quicker and more
accurate than telephony that its use has
become almost universal.”
Television on Tap.
The. illustration, from “Television and
Short-wave World” (England), shows a
sectional view of a large block of flats,
Arlington House, in Piccadilly, London,
designed with a television relay system.
A master receiver is housed in a con-
crete cabin on the roof, 100 ft. above
street level. The television signals are
received on a special aerial, and a con-
centric cable distributes radio and tele-
vision to the various flats. Wiring is to
four-pin plugs in each flat, two of the
pins being for television and the other
two for radio. All television tuning is
done, on the master receiver, and in the
flats cathode-ray tubes reproduce the pic-
ture. The results are claimed to be ex-
ceptionally good and free from inter-
ference.
Radio Comment.
“Querex”: The British Government
has subsidised 8.8. C. television to the
tune of £500,000. Cost is the great
obstacle to Australian television. Mean-
while in London the television ghosts of
early years have gone, and the 8.8. C.
delivers a clear image to its “viewers-in.”
* * * *
“D.8.K.”: The “5.M.H.,” in dealing
with a radioed account of survey flights
by the Mackay Expedition, included the
reference: “We have been .in com-
munication with Sydney nightly by wire-
less telephone, but Sydney was not
allowed to take traffic. This has been the
first opportunity to send.” The writer’s
station (VK2NO) is the one concerned,
and it should be explained to people not
conversant with wireless regulations that
amateur stations are not permitted to
handle communications of a business
nature. The “first opportunity to send”
refers to the fact that the night of
27/7/’37 was the first time operator Fer-
guson was able to attract the attention of
commercial stations.
* * * *
“Jack K.”: Can’t say who were the
original radio experimenters in Aus-
tralia (B. 28 /7 / ’37), but the late J. P.
King, then in the P.M.G.’s Department,
was carrying out experiments prior to
1910. Before that year he had succeeded
in sending messages at St. Stanislaus’s
College, Bathurst, in collaboration with
Father Slattery, who was science master
there. In 1910 King was stationed at
Albury Post Office, and had an aerial
erected at his residence in that town, but
the department compelled him to dis-
continue his experiments. Father Slat-
tery said in an address about 1911 or 1912
that had he been allowed to carry on the
name of King would have ranked with
that of Marconi. The authorities at St.
Stanislaus’s may have some record of
the experiments carried out there.
• * * * *
“Norwood”: Newspaper references to
two Czechs who claim to be human
wireless sets are sceptical, but it may be
possible. Capacity, inductance and recti-
fication are the basic essentials for recep-
tion. The human body contains the first
two essentials, and freak specimens of
the race might have rectifying abilities —
loose joints in water mains have been
known to react in such a fashion.
The absence of any means of reproducing


YOUR OLD
”IDEAS ABOUT
COUNTRY RADIO
NO MORE Transporting
HEAVY ACCUMULATORS
WEEKS
FEW
every
X
tr
no
vnsw
lKo»^ s •
tt
OVtR
Air Cell operated models
are already available under
the following well-known
brands:
BRITON
STERLING
TASMA
ZENITH
GENALEX
WELDON
STROMBERG-
ARISTOCRAT
PARAMOUNT
S.T.C.
ECLIPSE
KREISLER
LEKMEK
BREVILLE
SYMFONA
CARLSON
(E.S.M.)
VELCO
Times have changed. No longer is it necessary
for the man on the land to put up with the
cost and inconvenience of recharging heavy
accumulators for his radio. NOW he can
own an
AIR CELL OPERATED RADIO
Latest and most modern advance in the con-
struction of farm radio. Equipped with an
EVEREADy AIR CELL that gives more than
a year of trouble-free "life" with normal use—
it requires NO SERVICING!
EVEREADY AIR
EVER READY CO. (AUSTRALIA) LTD., SY
CELL
■Y. S.E.A.3A.
audio-frequencies is a more serious
obstacle, and it has not been stated
whether ’phones or loudspeakers have
been hitched up to the gentlemen. If not,
the utmost they could do would be to
re-radiate what they pick up to some
neighboring set. I was astounded when
the patients of a large Sydney hospital
received broadcasts by inserting one
terminal tip from their earphones into
the ground and holding the other in their
fingers. Probably the ’phones pick up the
earthed signals from the first circuit of
the large receiving installation, and the
body takes the place of a counterpoise.
The ’phones immediately go dead in bare
feet.
* * * *
“Norwood”: Once the amateur set-
builder gets past the connections within
the set, he comes up against odds and
ends which make all the difference be-
tween average and good reception. It is
a good plan to solder pins on the ends
of aerial and earth wiring before plug-
ging them into the binder-posts provided
on the chassis, or lugs where the ter-
minals are of the screw-and-nut variety.
The lead-in should be securely wound
round the aerial and well soldered for a
couple of inches. Where any other joins
are necessary the iron should be used at
each splice. Most earths finish on water-
pipes, where the special clip renders
solder unnecessary, but where the wire is
earthed to a tin of charcoal or some
buried object the joint should be securely
fastened and soldered. Lightning
arrestors are a source of “mysterious”
crackles, unless the wires passing to them
are equipped with solder lugs.
* # # *
“C.C.C.”: During a recent thunder-
storm a sheet of silver paper lying on a
table began to tick quite audibly. When
the paper was touched with the fingers
the ticking stopped instantly, only to
begin again when the hand was removed.
As the storm receded the ticking became
less distinct, until it ceased altogether. A
few days later the occurrence was men-
tioned to a wireless enthusiast for crystal
sets. He said he always used a piece of
twisted tin-foil or silver paper from
cigarette wrapping as a cat’s-whisker. The
tin-foil makes an excellent conductor,
does not corrode, cannot scratch the
crystal and gives best results.
* * * *
“Enno”: Five-metre equipment proved
useful at a Grand Prix motor race in
South Africa. Six stations were used,
two for communication from the time-
keepers’ tables to the pits, and four for
B.B.C. mobile television control-room, showing picture
monitors and power-supply equipment (right).
traffic control. An aeroplane, also
equipped with five-metre transmitter and
receiver, watched traffic and kept in con-
tact with the police department to give
advice as to the best way of clearing
congestion.
* * * *
“Thermos”: My query as to the neces-
sity for prefixes to callsigns of national
and licensed stations brought a reply
from “Enno” that the plain callsign
“seems to have become accepted.”
Further that “these callsigns, such as 3LO
and 2BL, were issued long before the
1927 convention gave Australia a choice
lying between VHA and VMZ.” Granted,
bfit does this “custom” ignore the con-
vention and apply to callsigns issued
since then? If so, what is there to stop
other countries from doing the same,
with, as time goes on, the possibility of
several stations having the same callsign,
with the lack of a prefix hindering iden-
tification?
[The matter is really one for the
Postmaster-General. The correct “con-
vention” manner of tabulating Aus-
tralian broadcasting stations would have
been to issue calls as in U.S.A., where all
stations begin with Wor K. Probably
there are not enough to go round between
VHA and VMZ after the commercial
telegraphy stations have been considered.]
Short Waves and Sunspots.
The period of maximum sunspot
activity reaches peak towards the end of
1938, but already its effect is noticed on
reception of stations below 30 metres,
and the bad period for short-wave recep-
tion is likely to continue for some little
time.
A few weeks ago it was almost impos-
sible regularly to receive some of the
20-metre amateur stations or to hear the
popular short-wave broadcasters at any-
thing like normal strength. Fortunately
many short-wave broadcasters are now
using higher power and special beam
aerials, which have helped to counteract
what would otherwise be an unusually
bad time for the short-wave listener.
It is hoped that short-wave conditions
will reach a peak for good reception
about 1942, although one cannot fore-
cast just what may happen quite so far
ahead.
T. S. W.
Amateur Chatter.
While Ferguson, VKSNO, was located
at Tanami, N.T., he romped into Sydney
on 40-metre ’phone nightly with all the
kick of an overseas broadcaster. Only
one crystal holder was available, and as
during the day the station was VLU on
44.6 metres the crystals had to be
changed frequently. Because of winds and
a preponderance of red dust, it was not
easy to keep the holder clean. A test
was run between VLU and VK2NO to
make a comparison in signal strength
over 7300 kc. Despite the fact that the
twisted-pair doublet for VLU was end-
on to the east, the signal was fully two
points stronger. The aerial for VKSNO
was trimmed exactly to resonance for
7300 kc. and the signal was not less than
R 8 on ’phone in Sydney.
Cyril Price (G6PC), resident in Sydney
three years ago, is now on the staff of
G2NO, of Wolverhampton, England. An-
other member of G2NO’s staff is the
famous WIJYN, Ted McElroy, the
world’s speediest telegraphist.
In England there is a move to make
the 160-metre band an amateur emer-
gency channel, with the idea of providing
a network of stations throughout the
British Isles. The plan, which originated
after recent floods in the Fen Country,
will ultimately link up the entire country
by radio. It is intended to have stations
situated at conveni-
ent positions and
capable of covering
an area of 50 miles
with reliability. In
the event of an air
attack or some
other cause sever-
ing the normal
communi cation
channels, amateur
stations would be
able to provide a
service. The equip-
ment used will be
independent of the
normal power
supply. Something
of the kind could
be done in Aus-
tralia, where the
160-metre band is
almost neglected.
Though 160 metres has difficulties for
metropolitan use, owing to the QRM
problem, it should be very useful for
country stations. Efficient emergency
schemes are the soundest justification the
amateur has for his existence.
VK2NO.
Radio Trade Spotlight.
The 1937 issue of Radio Trade
Annual of Australia is a complete and
up-to-date collection of everything even
remotely affecting the radio trade in this
country. Its 328 pages are crammed
with technical and general information.
Published by Australian Radio Publica-
tions, Ltd., 30 Carrington-street, Sydney,
the price is 10s. in Australia ; 15s. over-
seas.
* * * *
The Amplion Co. has produced an
especially fine loudspeaker in the new
model T illustrated. The field coil is
very powerful and capable of excitation
up to 15 watts. The core is l|in. in
diameter, and outer suspension is used
to permit free play of the cone. The
transformer is in keeping with the
speaker, being considerably larger than
any of the other types. The current
rating is heavy, and the speaker
is well suited for use with 6L6
type valves, the transformer being de-
signed to take care of the extra stresses
likely to be encountered in sgme ampli-
fiers using 6L6’s. It will deal comfort-
ably with 10 watts of audio current.
Reproduction is excellent, and the full
frequency range is well catered for. This
speaker will fill the bill nicely with the
better class of radio receiver.
A new textbook
to hand is Servicing
with Set Analysers,
by H. G. McEntee
(Radcraft Publica-
tions, New York,
U.S.A.; 50 cents).
No. 17 in a radio
library series, it has
chapters covering
every possible, angle
in the relationship of
the analyser equip-
ment and the set.
Commercial analy-
sers, such as the Trip-
left and Ranger, are detailed with the cir-
cuit diagrams. If anything should go
wrong with the analyser itself, these
diagrams show where to look for the
fault.
The Question Box.
Full name and address must accompany all
queries; and write legibly to avoid con-
fusion in addresses. Queries are dealt with
by post where the matter may be urgent,
otherwise answers will appear in this column.
Here in Papua I have a five-valve superhet
running from 240 -volt D.C. mains, with a
doublet aerial taken in through a Noisemaster.
Unfortunately I live next door to an ice plant,
with engine running from 6 a.m. to midnight.
Induction is heavy, and I get a roar through
the receiver with just a background of stations
in daylight. Disconnecting the doublet aerial
gets rid of the noise. My neighbor with a bat-
tery set gets perfect reception day and night.
How can I cure the trouble? —577.
Your reference to the ice plant seems to indi-
cate that this is an electric motor, running
from the same D.C. supply as your own. The
surest cure would be to have the proprietor
fit a noise-suppressor to his motor. Such
filters can be obtained in Sydney specially de-
signed for the purpose and made by Ducon
Condenser, Ltd., Bourke-street, Waterloo. You
will not improve things by changing the doublet
aerial to a single wire. You might try a line
filter to the 240-volt D.C. input to your re-
ceiver. These can also be purchased ready-
made. The circuit shows the essentials. Wind
about 300 turns of 20 D.C.C. on formers 2in.
in diameter for the coils L. Wind one in the
opposite direction to the other. The conden-
sers are .lmfd. each, with two in series across
the input and output. The centre connections
of the four go to earth. The condensers must
be able to withstand the 240 volts, and the ordi-
nary tubular types will be suitable. This filter
can easily be made up in a box, and connected
between the power-point and the receiver.


TILLEY LAMPS
300 CANDLE POWER
Obtainable
from your local
agent or
British made. Fool
proof and trouble proof.
Burn for 10 hours on
li pints of kerosene.
Three times the life of
ordinary mantles. All
lamps fitted with
PYKEX Globes and
insect proof fittings.
Model EX4 All Purpose
Lamp, as illustrated,
may be used as a
Storm Lantern, Hang-
ing Lamp, or Table
Lamp. Height, 19in.
Price, 47/6
Complete.
Write for Catalogue of
Table, Wall, Vase and
Other Lamps.
W. KOPSEN & CO., LTD.,
70 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Calcium Deficiency.
“Tri-cal”: For a long time I’ve
thought my milk supply was not what
it should be. Not that the stock isn’t
good, you know. I was, told that fatness
of cows may mean calcium deficiency
in the feed,' causing the protein and other
digestible nutrients to be stored as body
fat instead Of being utilised for milk
production. Being wise in time, I fed a
pure, wholesome mineral supplement—
Tri-cal-os Bone Flour, and already I’m
getting appreciable increases. I’m telling
you this because I think your herd should
be giving better returns.
Davis Gelatine (Australia) Pty., Ltd.,
send you a folder —I wrote for mine.
/-o
is'
\A *
WF
G.P.O. Box 35835, Sydney, will
Old Farmer.
THE ADVANTAGES OF
VITA-LICK
Mr. L. B. Dibbs, “Collarene,”
Barr aba, writes, 17151’35: —
“I have used Vita-Lick since it
first came on the market, and
long ago satisfied myself that
it was responsible for keeping
internal parasites in check, pro-
moting the health of the sheep
and improving the growth and
quality of the fleece.”
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
More Light on Blowflies.
“Zedo”: On the basis of 13 years’
study at Trangie Experimental Farm,
Dr. A. G. Belschner, senior vet. of the
N S. Wales Agricultural Dept., concludes
that predisposition to crutch strike largely
depends on breech conformation. Gen-
eral 1 ill-health is a minor factor, a.nd
the/main features which make for strike
are, he believes, inherited.
He claims plain breeches can be pro-
duced without loss of wool and that
they would lead to uniform flocks and
better quality. wool free from coloration.
This, with reduced .losses of animals
through strike, would make the change
of policy profitable. 1 ' J •• ; -
Higher-grade and brighter wools seem
to be less susceptible to fleece rot than
poorer qualities, and body strike inci-
dence, of course, depends on fleece rot.
The Belschner investigations merely
confirm the advice given again and
again on the M.O.L. page—culling for
age, type and body condition provides
one of the best methods of dealing with
strike. Wrinkled sheep are the flies’ best
friends.
Lungworm Treatment.
“J.W.”: In spite of the belief of a
lot of old-time farmers in arsenical
drenches for lungworm in sheep, vets,
discount their, usefulness. f , :
Proper nutrition is recommended to
build up the animal’s constitution, and
sub. clover or lucerne grazing or supple-
mentary feeding with grains and hay.
Infected" animals should be taken off
damp land.
Intratracheal injections of creosote, one
part; chloroform, one part; turpentine,
two parts,; and olive oil, four parts—
a four c.c. dose for lambs—are a good
remedy.
The injections are put in with a short
needle through the windpipe rings, but
both sides of the pipe must not be
pierced. Also, the pipe must not be
pressed on too heavily, or the rings may
collapse. Treatment is best done by a
vet.
No method can be expected to do more
than relieve the animal, and the best
plan is to keep all animals away from
damp and marshy country until they
have reached the two-tooth stage.
“B-gar”: So “W.D.Mc,” can cure
lungworm by drenching (B. 28/7/’37).
If the formula he talks of will
do the job then he deserves more
than a pat on the back from his
fellow-sheepmen. I drenched
with anything and everything
until I realised how futile it
was to attempt to get anything
to the lungs by way of. the
mouth and had to resort to intratracheal
injection. It’s the only effective method
I know.
Those Sheep Exports.
“Ghanam”: Apropos my remarks (B.
11/8/’37), another large consignment of
Corriedales has gone to Japan, and the
breed already has achieved a place in
U.S.A. which it has not yet earned in
its native ‘Maoriland or in Australia.
Up till T 2 years ago there were oniy
a couple of Corriedale flocks in U.S.A.
In the Middle West alone there are now
over 200, and grade Corriedale ewes
bring up to two dollars a head more
than other breeds of flock ewes. Pure-
bred flock Corriedale rams are double
the price of other breeds in some sec-
tions. The grand champion ewe at the
U.S.A. International Show last year was
a Corriedale.
J. F. Walker, who started the Corrie-
dales in U.S.A., declares that Govern-
ment experiments have shown the breed
more valuable than any other. He adds
that in South America, M.L. Corrie-
dale rams have done more to improve
wool than any other influence.
It is too late to do anything about the
Corriedale, but an Australian and M.L.
export embargo should be clamped down
on other breeds, including the improved
types of English sheep and the Pol-
“The locusts is bad enough, Dad, but if We get a plague of these
things T'm quittin'."
warth, which appears to have a big
future.
Nasal Bots in Sheep.
“Albarmount”: Nasal bots are not as
new as “Agamemnon” (B. 4/8/’37)
thinks. Twenty years ago I was told
that some of my sheep had bots. Of
recent years they have become more
common.
The white larva worms its way up the
nasal track to the rear of the frontal
sinus and remains there during winter
and spring. At maturity, it releases its
hold on the mucous membrane, is
sneezed out, and within a few days be-
comes a pupa or chrysalis. The bots
cause loss of condition and, in cases of
heavy infestation, inflammation of the
mucous membranes which may lead to
death.
Injections of equal parts of carbon
bisulphide and paraffin oil or ethylene
tetrachloride will kill the maggots within
a minute. A special trocar is used to
pierce the bone covering the frontal
sinus, and the mixture is then injected
with a syringe. The animals struggle
and rear, but recover within a few
minutes.
Hand-feeding Sheep.
“Lion”: When hand-feeding drought
sheep, draft off the strongest animals and
put them in a separate paddock. Feed
the worst hay to the strong sheep and
the best to the others, remembering that
ewes and lambs must always have the
best whether strong or weak. Feed a
concentrate —grain or sheep-nuts—to
both. Keep a good drought lick in the
paddock, and arrange for easy access to
water.
Go round in a large circle when feed-
ing, and change the place each day. A
good way to feed grains that run is
to bore holes in the floor of an old
sulky and drive through the paddock.
Watch for signs of impaction, and deal
with it immediately.
In a bare paddock don’t feed too close
to water - unless, necessary because of
weakness. Hand-fed sheep need exercise.
Those who keep their best hay till last
keep their sheep alive the longest.
Shearing Supplies.
“Rockless”: Shearing preparations
should start 12 months ahead. Before
the expert leaves the station he should
be asked to supply a list of the dupli-
cates for next year’s shearing. Hand-
pieces should be put in order, if neces-
sary in a city workshop.
When ordering fuel or lubricating oils,
be careful to get the. exact grade. Specify
the type of cylinder, overhead-gear or
handpiece oil, or of petrol, kerosene or
crude oil for each job, and order a bit
more than necessary. It isn’t worth risk-
ing a stoppage during shearing, and the
surplus can be carried over to crutching
time.
It is best not to order too much emery
at a time, as it deteriorates with age. The
expert should state grades and brand re-
quired. If no record exists, get a sheet
of fine and one of coarse white-backed
(Nos. 1 and 3) for each 1000 sheep.
Blue-backed or other expensive sorts of
emery can be cut down in quantity, but
usually the same outlay covers the emery
for shearing no matter what the price per
sheet.
One important job to be tackled far
ahead is the shed woodheap. Just how
far ahead depends on the burning quality
of the local timber, but don’t risk
freshly-cut green timber that turns black
in the firebox and won’t raise steam
unless there’s a gale of wind blowing.
Order woolpacks in good time and
stow in a dry place. Buy good brooms
for the board. Cheap ones fall to pieces
and have to be replaced within a few
days, and the millet keeps snapping off
and getting into the wool. Allow a broom
to every four shearers, one to each wool-
rolling table and one to the piece-pickers.
The presser will want a good one ; so
will the cook.
Allow five fasteners to a bale and
have a hank of sewing twine and a
needle handy for repairing split or
damaged bales.
Finally, read through the latest shear-
ing award and make sure that you know
exactly what is required of employer and
employee. Lack of knowledge lies at the
bottom of much labor trouble.
Line Breeding and Inbreeding.
“Mookau”: True inbreeding involves
the mating of brother and sister or
parents and their progeny in one or more
generations. Line breeding covers cases
in which the two animals mated have
only 25 p.c. or less of common blood. In
true inbreeding, at least 50 p.c. of the
inheritance would be common.
Both systems are good if not carried
too far. A persistent course of inbreed-
ing, no matter how sturdy the original
stock, inevitably produces overfineness
of line, sterility in cows and nervous tem-
peraments.
The classic instances are Thomas
Bates’s Shorthorn Duchesses, only 24 of
which out of a run of 58 produced no
calves. In the line of Duchess 55th,
Belvedere (1706) appears in three male
lines out of four in the great-great-grand-
parent generation. The fourth bull is
2nd Hubback (1423). In the next genera-
tion back, 2nd Hubback appears twice
and Waterloo (2816) twice in the male
line and Angelina 2nd twice. On the
female side both Waterloo and 2nd
Hubback helped to produce the dam
line, and into the next generation three
full-blooded offspring of Waterloo and
Angelina 2nd were infused. The Earl
(646) appears once in that generation, as
(Continued on page 44.)


r» £***
-i n
. 0 V v <
■■(om
d\\ovi
>N'
m
t. sWm I l
lIIHi
&BSS3
.
liwl
Ml
III;
g#s
ii
pipi
II
WZmm. m
I
Ili
wky --
gK ft//,,/),/'
11 lis *
■ i«
11l
II
Mil
' ''!
II
ifj# ' ' ' t .
vZ'/y//j
W&Mwjm*
llfl
:
WMmm
m
HI
11
:
* '■• 1!
m
,* .. '
y+-*t M -y
S3*%kS**
IHHHi
WA-WZI
\
L' ,
m
Him
1 _
lill
m
IIIIHIII
si«iili
1111
f"I
.
W
r i
LISTEN TO “THE MUSIC OF THE STARS'—IS MINUTES UNINTERRUPTED
MUSIC EVERY SUNDAY AND WEDNESDAY AT 8 P.M. ON 2GB
TL*s< HAL* BO TfLIS*
■


s
'fy
—w
,N
/
= 7
THE EXTRA WEAR IS ALWAYS THERE
Wallaby Skin lined throughout' and made from high-grade Velour
Calf, this full Golosh Oxford is made for long wear.
Stocked in full and half sizes, and in medium and wide fittings.
Prices: Brown 4S/6, Black 47/6.
IF IT’S AN ABBEY SHOE, IT’S A GOOD SHOE.
ABBEY SHOES
316 George Street, 224 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
Telegraphic Address: “ABBEY BOOTS, SYDNEY."
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish to succeed
-THINK OF
BY Iky
>■
r*
Irk
Bl
PERSONAL
ATTENTION
X
NO MORE TAXATION-RETURN
PROBLEMS
The Primary Producer’s Account Book
costs you £l,
but that includes the free preparation of your Income Tax
Return by
H. Rawson Stevenson,
a taxation expert, who by his thorough knowledge of
taxation methods will see that you claim the maximum
deductions, and thus save yourself many times over the
cost of the book, and endless worry.
Read what one purchaser says:
“I am enclosing my cheque for £3/0/6 to pay for three
copies of the Primary Producer’s Account Book. I showed
the book I had already bought from you to three of my
farmer sons, so they are now each wanting one, as it is
something v/e have been wanting a long time.”
—H.K.R. (Bogan Gate, N.S.W.)
Forward cheque for £l (plus exchange) to
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO. PTY., LTD.,
252 George Street (Box 252 IBB). Sydney,
and the Primary Producer’s Account Book will be sent you
post free.
D
WILCOX SMITH & CO
Postage Stamp Merchants,
Liverpool Street,
Dunedin, N.Z.
16 Page Buying and
Selling List I’ree.
Established 49 years.
Bankers: The Union
Corns Sentenced to Death .
Corns have worried you—now worry them:
although “worry” is hardly the word, for
A’CORN SILK does not trifle with corns, but
ruthlessly kills them. How comfortable your
feet feel after A’CORN SILK has removed
all your soft or hard corns —a 6d. packet will
do this for you without pain or inconvenience.
Corns are killed while you sleep—a matter of
a few hours. Chemists sell A’CORN SILK at
6d. per packet. Packed by Felton, Grimwade
and Duerdins, Ltd., Melbourne.
T^e'SxilleS/rL
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
the sire of Hubback 2nd ; but still an-
other generation back was made up as
follows:
Male Female
Side. Side.
Young Wynyard (2859) 4 2
The Earl (646) 2 2
2nd Hubback (Earl's Son) ..1
2nd Earl (ditto) 1
North Star 2
Duke ...; - 1
Angelina 4 2
Young Sally 2
The rest of the dams were nearly-
related Duchesses.
Sterility effects seem to afflict inbred
cows far more than inbred bulls. I
examined the pedigree of the Roan Sum-
merton, the cow from which the hordes
of Australian Derrimuts were bred.
Ninety thousand-odd stock which could
be traced out of 128,000-odd were proved
to descend from Favorite (252). And
Favorite had only one grandfather.
There is just as much risk in unskilful
outbreeding which may overlay qualities
built up by generations of intensifica-
tion, as there is in badly carried out in-
breeding. Success depends largely on the
experience of the studmaster.
Line breeding is easier, but there are
plenty of failures. It should be applied
for a specific purpose and with specific
characteristics in view.
Distemper in Dogs.
“Tryit”: A vaccine will prevent dis-
temper and aid the speedy recovery of
infected dogs, provided it is given in time.
It is in the form of small white pills.
These are dissolved in 2 c.cs. of boiled
water, just hot. The ordinary precau-
tions for sterilisation of everything used
must be taken, and, also, all air must be
excluded from the needle before inject-
ing. The injections are given in the
loose skin of the dog’s flank. Dose with
castor oil in the usual amounts every
three days during the whole course of
the four injections which ensure life
immunity.
The second injection, four days after
the first, is given in the same way, but
is twice as strong and is pushed under
the skin of both sides of the flanks to
allow of more speedy absorption.
There are two further injections of
increasing strength at four-day intervals
—l2 days in all. After the first dose the
dog will appear sleepy and shoura not
be worked, although he should have
plenty of exercise and good food. His
nose will become dry and get hot. He
will become sore in the flanks, and this
should be remembered when working
on him. It is most important to keep
his bowels open, although no special
dieting is required.
The vaccine, if properly administered,
is infallible, but too big a first injection
would prove fatal. Cost works out at
10s. 6d. a dog.
Footrot in Wheat.
“Nabawa”: All varieties of wheat
grown in N.S.W. are susceptible to foot-
rot. Seed treatment is waste of time.
Fungi that cause the trouble inhabit the
soil, can live over from crop to crop on
grasses, and can survive severe heat or
cold.
Good fallow is a sound control
method. Where wheat follows wheat
on the same paddock, footrot may soon
cause a big reduction in yield. Fallow-
ing reduces the activity of the fungi,
and makes for high soil fertility which
induces vigorous growth, the crop being
better able to resist attack.
Oats resist the disease, and should be
in the rotation. New land should carry
oats as a first crop, because both footrot
and take-all are prevalent on virgin soil.
Grazing of the crop by stock is fre-
quently followed by increased incidence
of footrot. Nobody has yet found the
reason.
Maize and Fertilisers.
“J.W.”: Last year’s New England
(N.S.W.) maize trials point to the value
of super. At Tenterfield, 981 b. of MlB
mixture —521 b. ammon. sulph. with 461 b.
super. —on ground cropped several times,
gave an increased crop value of £5 18s. 2d.
per acre over similar land without the
mixture. On new soil, there was a loss
with the fertiliser of just over £1 per
acre. Similar results were obtained in
other districts. The mixture acts on
much-cropped soils in proportion to
their nature and nitrogen deficiency.
What few farmers realise is that maize
is, almost more than any other large-
scale crop, a grain for rotational plant-
ing. A light dressing of super, is always
helpful. But the way to turn over big
maize crops is to sandwich plantings of
varieties suitable to the soil between
heavy nitrogenous crops, particularly
those which make stock-raising profit-
able. Clovers are particularly valuable.
Wild Salvia.
“X.T.”: Wild salvia, another American
import, has been added to the list of
noxious weeds. It is a thick-growing
annual, usually 18in. or so high, with
grooved stems and hairy, heart-shaped
leaves. The flowers are crimson and
well shaped.
It is particularly noticeable in the
better-watered parts of Central Queens-
land, but the climate of most of the
coastal region north of Sydney suits it.
It grows where there is plenty of shade,
and particularly along creek banks.
It is in winter when fodder is low that
its green shoots become a temptation to
stock, which quickly show poison symp-
toms —diarrhoea, twitching of muscles,
heavy breathing—and then collapse. Cows
carrying calves are likely to abort from
its effects. The best antidote is 2oz.
turpentine, 1 pint raw linseed oil and
loz. sweet spirit of nitre.
Chemical methods of eradication are
too expensive, and the only practical
method of dealing with the plant seems
to be to smother it with giant couch or
Kikuyu. Both are splendid reserve
fodders.
Skeleton Weed.
“McS.”: In spite of the offer of a £5OOO
reward for a successful method of dealing
with skeleton weed, there has been none
forthcoming. From Condobolin (N.S.W.)
to the Victorian border there are still
thousands of acres affected, and the area
is increasing.
A major difficulty is that a lot of
stockowners regard the weed as sheep
feed. Low rainfall is no menace to it,
and it is undoubtedly a fine standby for
sheep in poor seasons. If it could he
acclimatised in western Central Queens-
land, little except good could be said
of it, but in the southern N.S.W. wheat
areas it is a fast-spreading disaster.
Rotational farming seems the most
promising cure. Wheat and fat lambs
together can be made to succeed
if part of the farm area is regularly
under lucerne or oats. The grazing off
of the fodder crops mows the weed out
before it seeds until it is exterminated.
But to introduce this system and at the
same time keep up the wheat yield calls
for a large outlay on stock, improvements
and labor.
The N.S.W. Rural Bank is prepared
to lend money to do the work over a
period of years, and is bringing out
leaflets on eradication methods. It is
easy to get rid of skeleton weed when
it is sparse ; but once it is established
widely nothing but drastic long-term
methods will shift it.
Pineapples and Acetylene.
“Montville”: The Queensland Agricul-
tural Department has found the Hawaiian
scheme which produces flowering six to
eight weeks after treatment with acety-
lene gas in water applied to the hearts of
pineapple plants and ratoons useful in
bringing on holdover crops, especially as
the plants can be made to flower at any
stage of growth. Plants hurried to
maturity by fertilising can be treated at
from 10 to 12 months and then produce
normal fruit.
It should be possible to ensure
between-season crops and. keep up a
steady production flow at periods when
normally there are few pines on the
market. Moreover, production could be
shunted to the periods most favorable to
the reduction of disease. Avoidance of
the late-winter and early-spring crops,
which are productive of second-rate fruit,
would cut out a great deal of black heart,
and advance the sugar content of the
output.
February to May, which under the
acetylene system would become normal,
are the best months for producing can-
ning fruits as well as a maximum supply
of slips for planting. The change, should
have a considerable effect on the Queens-
land export market.


NOZAC
Pens - Pencils - Sets
FD
More nnd more people to-day
appreciate the quality of
Conklin and insist upon
Conklin writing instruments,
in preference to any other.
The Nozac filling system is
recognised as supremely
dependable. Sturdy construc-
tion and simplicity of
mechanism are the principal
features. Pencils to match
are available.
Here are the seven superior
features which distinguish
Conklin Nozacs as the world’s
finest precision fountain pens:
1. Capacity. More than
hours of constant writing, or
50 average letters. Scientifi-
cally gauged ink space, per-
mitting every drop of ink to
be used without fear of flood-
ing.
2: Visibility. Full length or
complete transparent ink
chambers.
3. Leak-proof. Inner cap
specially designed to prevent
leaking, yet the point will
write the moment it touches
paper.
4. Cushion Point. A revolu-
tionary advance in writing
ease and smoothness.
5. Stem-wind Filler. A simple,
efficient a n d dependable
device, proven by eight years
in the hands of the consumers.
Its operation compares with
the winding of a watch.
0. Controlled Feed. Insures
uniform flow of ink.
7. Beauty. Modern design
harmonises with streamline
styling.
Pens are Priced at 22/0, 30/-
and 40/-.
Pencils to Match, 17/6, 25/-.
Complete Sets in Presentation
Cases, 40/-, 55/- and 65/-.
Leading Stores Everywhere.
S
isJ: -
To be physically fit in the true sense means
something more than a negative condition of
health or freedom from sickness. It means
building up and maintaining a store of vitality
and endurance, a reserve of strength to draw on
as required. Something that will help everyone
to make a supreme effort to win through, no
matter how handicapped at the start in life’s
race. The foundation of fitness is a well
nourished body and there is no better way of
attaining this than by taking Roboleine, the best
protective and energy creating food. A teaspoon-
ful three times a day supplies the body with
that extra nourishment which builds up strong
bone and healthy tissue, and increases resistance
to infection.
“Life is not to be alive,
but to be physically fit.**
HUGH
(Made in England)
The best protective and
health restoring food
COUPO'J
- . Ltd- 4 ' 9
. «. Ned
Sue e ’
Ken'
ifttnp
ioi
pty
3d
,\o»e
duVt & i e o<d
foi««
n
Iddrcss-
VISIT
111 THE EXHIBITION
OF AUSTRALIAN
ART
THE MACLEOD
GALLERY,
252 George Street
{near Bridge Street ),
SYDNEY.
Where the latest pictures
by the best Australian
Artists may be purchased.
ADMISSION FREE
Tel.: 87971.
LI STAR D
Marks an
Epoch in
Diesel Engine
Design
“Listard” is a special process of
cylinder hardening which in-
creases BY AT LEAST 300%,
compared with the hardest pre-
viously known metal, the resist-
ance to wear in Diesel Engine
Cylinders and, at the same time,
reduces the maintenance cost
and extends the all-round effi-
ciency of the engine. Just think
what this means! Lister Diesels
are already famous for their
long life and efficiency, and now
they offer you the nearest thing
to the never-wear-out engine
Cylinder that science and
engineering genius have yet
produced!
And remember, Lister Diesels
are the only stationary engines
available with ‘‘Listard” Pro-
cess Cylinders.
FD
LISTER DIESEL
ENGINES
Sole Agents
for N.S.W.:
DANGAR,GEDYE&MALLOCHLtd.
Malloch House, 10-14 Young Street, Sydney.
Telephone: 86095 (six lines). Telegrams: “Dangars,” Sydney
Early Tomato Hints.
“Hortus”: In the open, preparation of
soil and sowing of seed should be started
now. Plough first to Sin. and lime and
harrow. Give two more ploughings and
three harrowings before plants are set
out.
Put a rainproof roof over seedbeds
and plant seed in rows. This prevents
plants becoming long and sappy, and
makes control of insects and fungus
easier. Thin out as soon as the. plants
are all up.
Transplant seedlings at 2in. high into
rows 4ft. apart, with 2ft. between plants.
Spray with Bordeaux mixture to pre-
vent damping off and blight. Avoid
overwatering.
Many growers mix fertiliser (up to a
ton per acre) in the drill. This is over-
concentrated, and is likely to burn tender
roots. The right dressing is scwt. to
lOcwt. per acre of equal parts bonedust
and super. Put it into the soil along
the drill before planting.
For dusting, a good mixture is 50 parts
arsenate of lead, eight parts copper car-
bonate and 40 parts sulphur. After the
first fruit has set, 601 b. sulph. amm.
brings plants along well.
Hints for the Farm.
“Kara way”: When putting galvanised-
iron on sheds, turn up the hollows of
the corrugations at the top end of each
sheet with the butt end of the snips.
It prevents wind-driven rain beating
under the ridge capping.
“Willeroo”: To avoid cracking a new
grindstone when firming the handle with
melted lead, wet it well round the hole
on both sides, and leave a wet rag
round it. Don’t pour the lead in till a
scum begins to form on the surface.
After filling the slack, pour water on to
cool it.
“Lam”: To get rid of small patches
of nut grass try common salt —about 31b.
to the square yard. Grass won’t grow
on the soil for a long time, but a few
yards bare is better than a spreading
pest which may blight the prospects of
the whole farm.
“Arbor”: Winter is the time to plant
deciduous trees. American oaks, the
mountain ashes and the plane make good
summer shade for cattle and splendid
windbreaks, besides adding to the beauty
of the farm.
“X.T.”: Taking protein concentrates
by and large, meat meal is about the
cheapest. Meat meal—63 p.c. crude
protein, 10 p.c. crude fat —rates about
170 food units and costs about 10s. per
cental—o.7d. per unit. Coconut-oil cake
at 11s., with 97.3 units, costs 1.34 d. per
unit; cottonseed meal—4o p.c. crude
protein, 5 p.c. crude fat, 15 p.c. crude
fibre and 15 p.c. hulls —works out at
1.02 d. per unit. Peanut meal comes an
easy second. At 9s. 6d. per 1001 b., with
135 food units, the per unit cost is 0.83 d.
“W.D.Mc.”: Why bother with carbon
tetrachloride (B. 21/7/’37) when a better
remedy for all kinds of worms is avail-
able in arsenic soda and tobacco drench?
What the average sheepman needs is a
remedy that is easily prepared and given,
and at the same time cheap. A.S. and T.
is practically foolproof.
“Pappamosca”: Queensland Agricul-
tural Dept, has imported two Berkshire
and two Middle White sows and a Berk-
shire and a Middle White boar from
England. They should do something to
improve the local export breed. The
White boar, an English first-prize winner,
is by Sir Neuton Triton 3rd, a Hereford
champion. The Berkshire sire, Burnham
Criqua Baron, was dropped to an Eng-
lish R.A.S. reserve champion by the
champion sow of ihe English R.A.S. in
1935. One of the White sows is by the
well-known Watford Marion, and her
companion on the voyage was mated to
Shawlands Bold Boy, father of seven
prize-winners, before she sailed for Aus-
tralia. Of the two Berkshire ladies, one
calls the English R.A.S. 1936 champion—
Dringhauses Resolute —father.
“Narooma”: The deaths of a number
of sheep in the Quirindi (N.S.W.) district
brought to light another form of stock
poisoning. Owing to drought, the sheep
were being hand-fed on linseed-nuts and
had acquired such a keen liking for them
that between meals they had taken to
licking the paddock gate, newly painted
with linseed oil and white lead.
“C.V.S.”: I agree with “Bungaree”
(B. 28/7/’37) that bins should be built
for two-way traffic ; but the layout of
many small sheds prevents the building
of double-ended bins, and, with up to
six shearers, fleece bins built against a
wall are satisfactory, though piece bins
should never be. built that way.


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wcmts.
Experienced tutor, Blackfriars correspondence
course, wants position on outback station. —
6636.
Single man (30), N.S.W., Diesel engine-
driver’s certificate, l.C.S. course in electro-
mechanics, wants position. —6669.
Hiking club, Sydney, wants gentlemen mem-
bers. —6664.
Whereabouts of Billy Burns, engineer. (Reply
to A. Bray, Afton Downs, Watten Siding,
Winton line, n.-w. Q’land.)
Experienced typist, Adelaide, will do all
classes of typing. Neat, accurate, reasonable.
—6678.
Young man (23), Vic., farming and office ex-
perience, wants position anywhere, Refs. —
6649.
Man. N.S.W., wants harvesting work, any
kind, coming season. —6713.
Navigation charts of eastern and northern
Australian coasts; also “Sailing Directions” for
same or any nautical information. —6703.
Information Sought.
What are the batting and bowling figures of
all-rounder H. G. Vivian, of M.L. team at
present in England, in (1) Plunket Shield
matches in M.L. in 1936-37; (2) with the M.L.
XI in England in 1931? (3) Did he get most
wickets on that tour? (4) His age? —6647.
(1) In Plunket Shield matches in 1936-37:
Batting—6 innings, 200 runs, 88 highest score,
average 33.33 ; bowling—180.4 overs, 51
maidens, 393 runs, 13 wickets, average 30.23.
(2) In England in 1931: Batting—39 innings,
1002 runs, 135 highest score, 6 not outs, aver-
age 30.36; bowling—-568.3 overs, 143 maidens,
1520 runs, 64 wickets, average 23.75. (3) No;
W. E. Merritt, with 99 wickets, averaging 26.48,
had a bigger bag of wickets. (4) Vivian will
be 25 on November 4 next.
* * * *
Was South Africa’s defeat of Orange
(N.S.W.) by 63 to nil recently the highest score
in Australia by a representative Rugby Union
team ? —6660.
No; M.L defeated Metropolis (Sydney) by
79-5 and Manning River (N.S.W.) by 70-9 in
1920; England defeated .Westralia by 71-3 in
1930, and Australia, which toured South Africa
in 1933, defeated Westralia by 67-3.
(1) Wlmt are the future international Rugby
Union fixtures for Australasia ? (2) By whom
are these fixtures arranged ? —6676.
(1) M.L. team to Australia in 1938; Aus-
tralian team to England in 1939-40; M.L. team
to South Africa in 1940“ British team to Aus-
tralia and M.L. in 1942; Australian team to
South Africa in 1945; M.L. team to England
in 1947-48; South Africa to Australia and
M.L. in 1948. (2) London Rugby Conference,
at which delegates from all the countries were
present.
« * * *
(1) Who were the referees in charge of N.S.W.
v. South Africa Rugby Union matches in 1921 ?
(2) Did referee Kilner ever control a rep. fixture
until the recent Australia v. South Africa match
at Sydney? —6683.'
(1) R. W. Adamson, F. J. Herlihy and T. H.
Bosward. (2) Yes; N.S.W. v. Queensland in
1935.
* * * *
(1) What are vulnerable and non-vulnerable
bids in contract bridge? (2) What are ruffing
bids ? —6562. _ '
(1) A side is vulnerable when it has won a
game, and as such qualifies for higher premiums
and heavier penalties than when non-vulnerable.
Rules of bidding, as enunciated by Culbertson
and other theorists, are affected by vulnerability
or non-vulnerability. (2) The term is not usual,
- but it could refer to a bid mainly based on
shortage of suits bid by opponents.
Hs & #
(1) In 500, when can the joker be played
during a no-trump hand ? (2) Is a player
allowed more than one bid ? —6662.
(1) At any stage. The player leading it nomi-
nates the suit it is to represent. (2) Yes, if he
has not previously passed he may overbid any
other player.
* * * *
(1) Values of poker hands in order of merit?
(2) Order of suits ? —6699.
(1) Straight flush, four of a kind, full hand
(three of a kind and a pair), flush, straight,
threes, two pairs, one pair, highest card. (2)
There are no suit values in poker, unless pre-
arranged.
* * * *
(1) When was the old gaol at Trial Bay, on
the N. S. Wales North Coast, erected? (2)
Cost? (3) When was it abandoned? —6643.
(1) The contract was let in 1887, but it was
nine years later before it was occupied by
prisoners. (2) A new wing, added at a cost of
£30,000, was never used. This brought the
total cost of the gaol to £70,000. (3) It was
used during the Great War as an internment
camp for about 500 Germans. After the war
it was abandoned and the material in the
buildings was sold.
* * * *
Information concerning H. Aiken? —6572.
Henry Aiken was a talented painter and en-
graver of sporting subjects, most of whose
best work was done between 1816-31. His
hunting subjects are highly esteemed by col-
lectors of that kind of engraving. The “West-
minster Cockpit” in color, a good print, should
be worth £10. Other prints vary in price;
sets of six colored plates should be worth £27.
•I 5
(1) What is an element? (2) Elements dis-
covered in this century, -when and by whom ?
(3) Elements known b.c.? (4) Atomic weight
of the heaviest and lightest elements ? (5) How
is it estimated ? —6680.
(1) An element is matter in its simplest form
which is indivisible or has not yet been sub-
divided. (2) Dysprosium, 1907, by Boisbaudran;
europium, 1901, by Demarcay; hafnium, 1923,
by Coster and Hevesy; lutecium, 1907, by
Welsbach and Urbain; radon, 1900, by M. and
Mme. Curie; rhenium, 1925, by Noddaek.
(3) Carbon, copper, gold, iron, lead, mercury,
silver, sulphur, tin and zinc. (4) Uranium,
238.14; hydrogen, 1.0078. Atomic weight is
the estimated weight of an atom of an element
as compared with that of oxygen, taken as 16.
* * * *
(1) What Melbourne stamp dealer sells
stamps at 2s. 6 d. a pound ? (2) Do any Syd-
ney dealers sell in this way ?— 6635.
(1) None of them. William Ackland’s,
Altsbn’s Building, cnr. Collins and Elizabeth
streets, sells a mixture of approximately 1000
at 35., postage extra. (2) No; Melbourne
dealers say they have been receiving numerous
Sydney inquiries about the alleged 2s. 6d.-a-
--pound lots, but these are not now available in
either city.
* * * *
What was the result of the Vic. chiropodists’
deputation to State Minister of Health Harris
asking for compulsory registration of members
of their profession? —6661.
The Minister said chiropodists “did not loom
large enough in the eyes of the public or
Cabinet to warrant a special Act of Parliament;
in fact, Parliament might even consider that
the Government was wasting its time in pro-
posing such legislation.” There has been no
development since he promised the deputation
of June 30 to place its application before
Cabinet.
* s',: sic *
(1) Is the woolclassing course at Melbourne
Technical College practical or mostly theory?
(2) How long does it take to complete ? (3)
What are the fees? (4) When the course is
completed, are prospects for employment good?
—6619.
(1) Almost entirely practical; theory notes,
which are typed for students, relate to the prac-
tical work. (2) Two years if full-time student
for the three terms of the year; there are
Saturday classes for men in the trade and
farmers, and to complete the course by these
takes from four to six years. (3) £8 a term
for three terms of the year. The Saturday
students are divided into two grades; the first-
grade men pay £1 15s. a term and the second-
grade students £2. (4) Depends on the student
and his aptitude for the work. Suggest you
seek further information from the Melbourne
Technical College Wool School and the
Gordon Institute of Technology, Geelong.
*/* * *
Male and female population of the Austra-
lian Stales? —6681.
N.S.W., male 1,347,553, female 1,317,934;
Vic., 912,917, 933,927; Q„ 513,974, 466,876;
S.A., 293,988, 293,305; W.A., 238,389, 211,854;
Tas., 116.546, 113,004; N.T., 3587, 1726;
F.C.T., 5305, 4475.
• $ * * *
(1) Is there a market for antimony, molyb-
denite and mica ? (2) Marketable size of mica
sheets ? —6557.
(1) Antimony ore ranges from ss. to 7s. 6d.
per unit, depending on the antimony content
of the ore. Material containing less than 35
p.c. antimony cannot be sold. Molybdenite is
quoted at 38s. per unit. (2) Mica prices de-
pend on the size and quality of the product and
range from a few pence to several pounds per
pound. Clear sheets about 4in. by 6in. are
worth about 7s. 6d. per pound. Sheets less
than 3in. by 4in. are not marketable.
*=!:**
Brief biography of the late Admiral Hyde ?
6695.
Born at Southsea, July, 19, 1877; married
Isla Robertson, of Jandra (N.S.W.), 1929; rear-
adm. commanding Royal Australian Squadron,
1926-29; Third Battle Squadron, 1930-31; vice-
adm., 1932; adm., 1936; died, July 28, 1937.
* $ $ > *
Formula for calculating the pitch, diameter
and blade area of a motor-boat propeller? —
6655.
Propeller specifications can be worked out
only by marine architects and engineers who
have had experience in this work. W. D.
Bailey, marine architect, of Como (N.S.W.),
will give you details of the correct type of
propeller for use with your boat if you supply
information as to type and dimension of boat,
and bore, stroke, r.p.m. and h.p. of engine.
* * * *
(1) Food for a three-months pup? (2) How
many meals per day? (3) How often should
it be bathed? —6657.
(1) and (2) The pup should have three meals
per day—at 11 a.m., 4 p.m. and 8 p.m. First,
table scraps, such as cooked meats, with dried
wholemeal bread or broken dog-biscuit. Second
meal, broken dog-biscuit, over which should
be poured a beaten egg mixed with a little
milk. The evening meal, which is the most
important, should consist mainly of raw beef
with a little scraped carrot and broken. biscuit.
(3) Depends whether or not he is to be kept in
the house. The less he is bathed the better
for his coat and skin, which will benefit from a
good grooming each day. Do not use medi-
cated, tar or carbolic soaps.
H* 'H 'l*
Any remedy for blindness in a dog caused
by a film growing over his eyes ? —6332.
The complaint is cataract. In young dogs
it often corrects itself. In old dogs, particularly
those which have protruding eyes such as pugs
and pekinese, it is more difficult to remedy.
Assuming it is an old dog, you might succeed
with Succus Cineraris Maritima Comp. (Walker
Pharmical Cos., St. Louis, Minnesota, U.S.A.).
If that is not procurable, try the following:
Sol. sulphate of atropine 10 drops, zinc sul-
phate | grain, distilled water to loz. Two drops
on eyeball two or three times per day.
In cutting timber for home use I find that
as my circular saw will only cut 11 in. the small
logs bend like boomerangs when cut in two.
Could I use an old pit saw to rig a vertical
saw to be driven with a Fordson tractor? —
6640.
Not practicable. Best plan is to use a very
large circular saw to break down the log into
sizes which you can handle. By breaking the
logs down into flitches with the circular saw
and then resawing the flitches into the required
sizes of lumber you should overcome your
difficultv.
* * <• *
(1) Brief biography of Nietzsche? (2) Synop-
sis of his work? (3) List of his writings? —
6672.
(1) Born at Rocken Oct. 15, 1844, educated at
Schulpforta and studied classics at the uni-
versities of Bonn and Leipzig. While an under-
graduate he was appointed to an extraordinary
professorship of classical philology in the Uni-
versity of Basel, and thence to an ordinary
professorship. Here he began his literary
activity, which sOon assumed a philosophical
character. In 1876 eye and brain trouble
caused him to obtain sick leave, and in 1879
he was pensioned. For the next 10 years he
lived in various health resorts, dashing off, at
high pressure, the essays which made him
famous. In 1888 he was pronounced hopelessly
insane, and remained in that state until he died,
August 25, 1900. (2) His works must be con-
sidered in their relation to his life, and as the
outcome of violent revolt against his suffering.
Throughout his writings may be found rebellion
against the Christian faith, against both democ-
racy and the authoritarian State. (3) Die Geburt
der Tragbdie aus dem Geiste der Musik
(1872); Unzeitgemasse BetraChtungen (1873-76)
(, Strauss—Vom Nutzen und Nachteil der
Historie fur das Leben —Schopenhauer als
Erzieher —Richard I Vagner in Bayreuth);
Menschliches, Allzumenschliches (1876-80);
Morgenrote (1881); Die Frohliche Wissenchaft
(1882); Also sprach Zarathustra (1883-84); Jen-
seits von Gut und Bose (1886); Zur Genealogie
der Moral (1887); Der Fall Wagner (1888);
Gotzenddmmerung (1880); Nietzsche contra
Wagner, Der Antichrist and Poems first
appeared in the complete edition of his works,
which also contains the notes for Wille zur
Macht, in which he had intended to give a
more systematic account of his doctrine (1895-
1901).
* * * *
Value of the five principal crops of Vic. for
the past five years? —667s.
1931-32, wheat £6,293,378, oats £550,961,
barley £160,699, potatoes £683,718, hay
£2,232,114; 1932-33, £5,961,983, £503,805,
£208,267, £616,028, £2,841,357; 1933-34,
£5,708,281, £649,631, £203,706, £591,186,
£3,192,702; 1934-35, £4,422,091, £524,879,
£200,927. £711,263, £3,145,257; 1935-36,
£6,975,305, £609,985, £281,591, £616,326,
£2,963,105.
* * * *
Method of making balsam of sulphur? —
6480.
Place 16 parts .oil of turps, 2\ spirits of
turps and 8 flowers of sulphur in a chemical pot
and heat the mixture until it boils, then con-
tinue the boiling until no sulphur can be seen.
Remove from heat, thin with turps until about
the consistency of treacle; warm again, stirring
well; allow the mixture to cool to 45deg. F.,
then test with a hydrometer. If the S.G. is not
995 continue the addition of turps and the
heating until correct. Let the mixture cool
thoroughly, then bottle, keeping it airtight.
* * * *
Suitable waterproof dressing for a raincoat
made of calico ? —6342.
Use best quality unbleached calico, lap the
seams with ample turnings and sew with double
seaming; the coat should be a little large to
allow for shrinking. Soak coat in cold water
and hang out wet. While it is drying, make up
this dressing: In a tin over a closed fire heat
one quart boiled linseed oil, stir in 4oz. yellow
soap shredded and made into a jelly by being
covered with boiling water previously, and then
whisk in loz. powdered alum. Keep all hot.
When the coat is almost dry (damp but not
wet) lay it out on a table and brush on a
coating of the hot oil mixture, working well
into seams and corners. Hang up to dry in an
airy place. When quite dry, brush on a second
coating; treat a third time if required. Drying
between dressings must be perfect, otherwise
you will always have a sticky coat. Add
lampblack sufficient to darken for a black
dressing; try first on a spare piece of cloth.
* * * *
Recipe for lemon syrup? —646s.
Boil 21b. loaf sugar and two pints water for
15 minutes; pour the liquid into a basin and
let it remain until cold. Beat loz. citric acid
to a powder and mix with it essence
of lemon; add these to the syrup, mix well and
bottle for use. Use two tablespoonfuls to a
tumbler of water.
He H« H*
My elks and staghorns are in a diseased con-
dition. The leaves and aprons appear as if
pitted with rust and are withering badly. What
can be done to save them? —6156.
Probably they have been attacked by the
staghorn fern beetle, which tunnels into the
leaves, causing them to wither. Cut off and
destroy the affected frond tips early in the
season while the beetle larvae are still within.
Spray periodically with arsenate of lead at the
rate of loz. arsenate of lead powder to two
gallons of water.
* * * *
Method of propagating Geraldton wax plant
in N.S.W. ?— 6415.
In late August, or after flowering, place
short pieces of the limb-tips in clean sand and
cover with glass to exclude all air. Keep the
sand moist by watering around the outside
of the covering. After about three months, if
top growth is still green, lift the glass slightly
and let in the air to harden the shrubs, which
will be ready for the open garden this time
next year.
sj: £ * *
(1) Proper time to transplant waratahs, and
most suitable position and soil? (2) When to
plant seed, and method of planting? —s44B.
(1) Waratahs are difficult to transplant,
especially when taken from the bush. Get the
whole of the roots. May to September is the
best time to transplant. They like a fairly
light soil and should be grown in a position
not too cold or wet but with slight shade. (2)
Sow as soon as possible after ripening. The
seed should germinate in about two weeks.
Sow in pots or pans filled with ash grit (not
too coarse and with all the dust out), with a
little coarse sand mixed through. Slightly cover
the seed after sowing; after it has germinated
allow the plants to remain in the planting
pots until they begin to show signs of harden-
ing and starvation, then transplant into small
pots. Care should be taken in the watering
of the plants, as they are very easily damped off.
* * * *
Particulars concerning a fresh-water fish
known as smelt ?— 6478.
The genus Retropinna, common in fresh-
water streams of s.-e. Australia, Tasmania and
M.L. The Australian species is small, rarely
exceeding three inches long, but those of Tas.
and M.L. grow larger. The Murray and
Darling river system and coastal streams south
of the tropics are its habitat in Australia. It
is almost transparent, but the eye and the silver
skin covering the abdominal walls are opaque.
It likes swift-running streams, and its habits
resemble those of its distant relative the trout.
The M.L. species migrates to salt water to
breed, and its young, netted with those of
certain species of an allied fish, are marketed as
whitebait.
Does Anybody Know?
How to make and throw a lasso? —6707.
Brief Answers.
TJ.K.: Coolo\yie is a S.A. aboriginal place-
name meaning “plenty water” S.T.:
Williewarrina is a N.S.W. abo. place-name
meaning “opossum standing up”... .A.J.H.: A
person who is admitted as a partner into a firm
does not thereby become liable to the creditors
of the firm for anything done before he became
a partner... .G.J.: The polar diameter of the
earth in 7899 English miles. The mean equa-
torial diameter is 7926 miles. The circumfer-
ence at the Equator is 24,902 miles
H.A.G.: The Bulletin Reciter and Tall Stories,
by Lowell Thomas, may assist y0u....W.C.:
Don’t know of any; they are dangerous to
health... .S.McM.: Write to the Wool Dept, of
the Gordon Institute of Technology, Geelong.
W.L.: Pluralism is a philosophical belief
that mind and matter are separate entities.
Consult Leibniz’s Monadology, James’s A
Pluralistic Universe, Carr’s Theory of Monads
and Richardson’s Spiritual Pluralism and
Realistic Philosophy H.S.K.: Some mys-
tery novels written by Paul McGuire are
Death Fugue, Daylight Murder, Born to Be
Flanged, Prologue to the Gallows and Three-
pence to Marble Arch... .A.J.: James Mudie’s
date of birth and birthplace are unknown;
similarly there is no record of the date or
place of his death... .A.C.G.: Try the Registrar-
General’s Dept J.F.W.: Garema is an abo.
place-name for camp... .A.8.R.: Legend has it
that profound knowledge was acquired by per-
sons who were fed on the honey of the Golden
Bees of Phidias C.T.J.: (1) A statute knot
is 6082.66 feet. Yes. (2) Words of the song
are included in Francis and Day’s 29th Song
Album, at present unobtainable in Australia.
Palings, 338 George-street, Sydney, could
obtain a copy from London, 2s. 6d D. 8.:
(1) No memberships of the Sydney Stock Ex-
change for sale at present. (2) About £SOOO
each. (3) An applicant must be nominated by
two members of the Exchange and submit
satisfactory evidence as to his character, suita-
bility and financial position... .A.R.C.; No
record; make inquiries in M.L.... .A.H.: No.
. ...R.L.: T. J. Smith, President N.S.W. Fire
Board, represented King in the N.S.W. Leg.
Assembly from 1917 to 1920... .V.P.C.: (1), (2),
(3), (9) and 10) You are not concerned with the
insurance cos. Insurance is wholly a matter
between the co. and the insurer. (4) and (5)
You would have great difficulty in establishing
such a claim. Your proper claim is against the
driver of the car. In the event of your proving
it, the Court or jury would fix the damages. (6)
and (8) You could do so, and should judgment
be given in your favor you could enforce it
by writ of execution. Should he abscond you
could have him followed. (7) You might ulti-
mately make him bankrupt. As to procedure
Bankruptcy officials would inform... .D.W.:
Probably a deed poll, which any solicitor could
draw up for you, would meet the difficulty.
The cost would not exceed a few guineas. It
would require to be registered and advertised.
A baptismal registration does not legalise your
name, but you would have to fall back on it
as evidence in the absence of statutory registra-
tion... .F.W.: Curtis Brown, Ltd., 6 Henri-
etta-street, W.C.2; John Farquharson, 8 Halsey
House, Red Lion-square, W.C.I; J. B. Pinker
and Son, 9 Arundel-street, W.C.2; and A. P.
Watt and Sons, Hastings House, Norfolk-
street, W.C.—all London... .K.S.: D. Apple-
ton-Century Cos., 35 West 32nd-street; Double-
day, Doran and Cos., Garden City; Longmans,
Green and Cos., 114 Fifth-avenue; G. P. Put-
nam’s Sons, 2 West 45th-street; The Macmillan
Cos., 60 Fifth-avenue; Harcourt,. Brace and
Cos., 383 Madison-avenue; Harper and Bros.,
49 East 33rd-street; and Charles Scribner’s
Sons, 597 Fifth-avenue —all New York, N.Y.
A.H.G.: Dale Collins’s novels include
Ordeal, The Haven, The Sentimentalists, Vanity
Under the Sun, Idolaters, The Fifth Victim,
Jungle Maid, Lost, Vulnerable, The Mutiny of
Madame Yes, and Race the Sun H.T.:
Chris Brennan, by A. G. Stephens, was pub-
lished in 1933 and was limited to 400 copies,
numbered and initialled, 12 s. 6d J.C.:
Members of the Vic. State Ministry are: A. A.
Dunstan (Premier and Treasurer), F. E. Old
(Water Supply and Electrical Undertakings),
E. J. Hogan (Agriculture and Mines), A. E.
Lind (Land and Forests), A. L. Bussau (Trans-
port, Attorney-General and Solicitor-General),
H. S. Bailey (Chief Secretary), E. J. Mackrell
(Labor), Sir John Harris (Public Instruction
and Health), G. L. Goudie (Public Works and
Immigration), and C. J. Tuckett, Henry Pye
and H. J. T. Hyland (Ministers without port-
folio) H.L.: “Gundagai Independent,” pub-
lished Mondays and Thursdays J.A.W.:
Cannot trace the Faculty you mention
W.P.: Betty Riddell has not published a book
of verse, but she is represented in an anthology,
Kowhai G01d .... M.F.H.: Appears to be a
system of conducting a business, and as such
cannot be protected or copyrighted L.W.L.:
Depends on (a) the horse, (b) the road, (c) the
sulky and (and) the driver W. 8.: (1) No dif-
ference. (2) Yes K. 8.: A viscount’s eldest
son and his daughters are born respectively in
the rank of a baron and of baronesses;
younger sons have no definite distinction now
that the degree of banneret is obsolete, but
they come above the younger sons of barons.
All sons and daughters without distinction bear
the title “Honorable”... .C.T.: R. H. Yapp s
Textbook of Botany, A. Brewster and C. le
Plastrier’s Botany for Australian Students.
Fritsch and Salisbury’s An Introduction to the
Study of Plants, M. A. Johnstone’s Matricu-
lation Botany, Keeble’s Life of Plants and
W. O. James’s Plant Physiology (Many
others mailed.)


Bathed in glorious tropical sunshine,
lava, with her countless attractions,
awaits you beautiful landscapes
ancient temples bazaars colourful
native life—palatial hotels. Equipped
with every modern convenience, the
t.s.s. ''MARELLA'' and m.v. ''MERKUR"
sail regularly from Melbourne and
Sydney along a smooth water route.
Life on board is pleasant. Spacious
decks, restful lounges, a tiled swim-
ming pool, the latest talking picture
equipment—each day is pleasure-filled.
At your request ive shall be
pleased to forward folder No. 61.
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD.
7 BRIDGE ST., SYDNEY
TELEPHONE B 7901
■ ■
128 ADELAIDE STREET, BRISBANE 312 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
And at ADELAIDE, FREMANTLE, CAIRNS, WELLINGTON, AUCKLAND
OUT WITH OLD-FASHIONED TOOTH PASTES
The New PEPSODENT
alone contains IRIUM which thrillin
steps-up lustre on teeth
*6
3*
Of
e fis,
%/>
c °ti(
e m
*o}
No
No
,l >sr
C »4 C
°*t.
e *ct
9 if
Ps
Sit
Off
DOUBLE THE THRILL
or DOUBLE YOUR MONEY BACK
If Pepsodent doesn't show up any other tooth paste you ever used... bar none!
The new Pepsodent alone contains
Irium, the spectacular new lustre
discovery.
It works on a totally new and
unique principle. It dissolves film
on teeth with a wonderfully swift
but gentle action.
The new Pepsodent, because of
Irium, thrillingly steps-up lustre on
teeth. Yet it is doubly safe because
it contains no pumice, no grit!
Doubly delightful because it con-
tains no chalk, no soap!
The Nctu PEPSODENT alone
contains IRIUM
IRIUM is the secret of its amazing
polishing power, its phenomenal
cleansing action, and the reason why
it gives teeth double lustre with
double safety.
Double Your Money Back
Try the New Pepsodent Tooth
PEPSODENT
The Special Film-Removing Tooth Paste
THE 2/- SIZE IS THE MOST ECONOMICAL
THE PEPSODENT CO. (AUST.) PTY. LTD.
(INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA)
Paste, and if, in your opinion, it
does not give you Double the thrill,
Double the safety and Double the
delight of any tooth paste you ever
used —bar none—we will give you
Double your money back.
Just post the partially used tube to
The Pepsodent Co. (Aust.) Pty.
Ltd., Melbourne, and we will send
you double what you paid plus
postage.
High-Polish Your Teeth FREE
This coupon entitles you to a
free generous supply of the new
Super-Soft High-Polish Pepso-
dent Tooth Paste. Just mail
to the Pepsodent Co. (Aust.)
Pty. Ltd., Dept. No. 4, Box
488 G, Melbourne, C.l.
Name
Address
City State
VU7373D.
8 Bottles of Cough Remedy
for Cost of One.
Cough remedies, if bought ready-mixed,
cost a lot of money, but the following
recipe gives you eight bottles for the cost
of one. To sweetened water add a
two-shilling bottle of concentrated
HEENZO, thus making a supply equal
to about £l’s worth of the best remedies
money can buy for banishing coughs,
colds, croup, bronchitis, whooping cough,
and influenza. HEENZO is delightful
to take, and wonderfully good for both
adults and children.
Tk
7
r
WAKE UP ! !
.:£BARTZ
Nature’s Salts of the Earth
Drugs are only a temporary
relief, but BARTZ, the
IMPROVED MISERA L,
SPRING TONIC SALTS, is
Nature’s own remedy for
excessive fat, headaches,
rheumatic pains, sleepless-
ness, giddiness, high blood
pressure, constipation, liver,
kidnev, bladder troubles, uric acid, indigestion, skin
complaints, etc. Obtainable all Chemists and Stores,
CHEAPER and BETTER 1/- & 2/- JARS
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address mush appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should
be addressed to the Editor, not to members of the staff personally.
L.R.H.: Admire the young chap who “dived
wildly into the swirling fioodwaters’ to save
his girl, but we can’t add to his reward... •
M.E.L.: Still doesn’t make the grade... -k-R- :
Not for us; try it elsewhere... .R.M.8.: Well
done, but the idea’s been used before....
R. No; but keep trying... .H.R.McD.:
Dull A.McD.: No haven for those “Lost
People”... .J. E.D.: The tea was too weak....
K.A.J.: Keeper of the cashbox is always wary
of “supple, silent, mysterious” girls, and when,
to cap it, their eyes are “grey-blue with darker
rims round the edge of the iris” he hides the
key G.H.: No use for “Episodes in Pales-
tine” written in Sydney... .D.E.: “The Gwili
Brothers’ Secret” wasn’t worth knowing....
G.L.D.: Right off our beat... .R.H.L.: No,
that dingo-dog cross is still looking for a
kennel.... M.J.L.: Can’t swallow that one.
. ...J.D.: You don’t get it over... .J.R.: No
room for 2700 words on l! Diary Writing”....
C.C.: It’s cut too much to a very old pattern.
. ...R.L.C.: Not for us... .D.8.0’C.: North
Queensland may be “Nature’s Masterpiece,”
but pen-pictures of “laughing rivulets gurgling
haunting amourettes ’twixt tressy banks” and
“arboreal monarchs raising their arms on high”
give us a pain in the neck... .R.A.M.: No
luck with those... .P.S.: “Time” flew basket-
wards. .. .J.A.8.: The rhyming is good, but
you haven’t much to say that hasn’t been said
before... .D.E.E.: “Morning Song” might do
for the bathroom H.S.M.: Sorry, no space
for stage parodies of 40 years ago... .Z.V.W.:
Your Muse is such a staid, conventional lady;
why not let her rip for a change? ... .R.W.D.:
The fact that the police removed a rude person
who interjected “You rat!” when Lyons was
speaking in Adelaide hardly excuses your jingle.
....S.C.K.: No hope for a bard who proffers
“Styx” as a rhyme for “sticks” G.0’8.,
Jnr.: You write a beautiful hand, which should
count in your favor if you intend to persevere
with such long-winded effusions. But don’t
try any more on u5....8r0n: “I have an idea
that in the accompanying lines I have
approached perilously near to poetry.” Don’t
worry; you are in no immediate danger....
Ibis: “The Old Swagman” has outstayed what
welcome he ever had in these pages... .Agar:
A flapper magazine might run your “Bache-
lor’s Shop”... .L. 8.: That’s one way of dis-
posing of an unwanted husband —let him walk
too close to a crocodile-infested river....
S. : Doesn’t make a yarn... .P.P.M.:
It drags... .S.O-.8.: No market here for lot-
tery wins that save the old home and ring the
wedding bells C.H.: Couldn’t force a smile.
K.W.: Perhaps it would have been better
had you “borrowed a line from those racy
limericks which travelling salesmen retail to
each other”... .W.M.: No love at this address
for gloom 1.V.: You make heavy going of
it C. 0.8.: Can’t fit it in here W.D.R.:
All right, “with what could they cook their
soup, caramba ?”.... S.W.: Found “The Birth
of Love” labored... .D.F.J.: Well done, but
there’s nothing new in it... .G.M.M.: An idea
there, but you’re not up to it....H.M.: It
doesn’t grip C.L.T.: Don’t doubt it came
from the heart, but we can’t print it H.R.:
No; it’s not what we want... .H.W.: Nothing
there... .J.W.R.: Can’t let those kids stay here,
though you might fix them up elsewhere
R.C.G.: One of those we’d seen before; the
other came close J.H.: Nor is that quite
up; but the binding’s as good as the typing.
TO ARTISTIC fAND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
RJ.: Presume that the little, fat fellow is
Archdale, but who are the others? .... W.M.C.:
You’ll be turning them in on the back of tram
tickets next ... .G.N.: Office carpenter is making
a coffin for it A.L.8.: Leave that field to
the man who pioneered it C.S.: Your thirty-
seventh effort is little better than your first....
E. : Jest about the mournful clown dates
back to Grimaldi... .S.N.W.: Lady all sharp
angles and gent, in need of repairs P.T.K.:
No use for that pair of skeletons... .W.P.D.:
We’ve had enough of the sock-strained-liquid
gag to last us for years N.H.: Cross-hatch-
ing is too heavy... .V.O’S.: The gag that re-
quires a long explanatory paragraph gets no
further... .8.L.: Jockey crashed at the first
hurdle... .N.A.: Can’t find a corner for your
nudist colony V.M.: Impossible to make
anything out of that wild array of lines....
L.T.: It died six months ago T.Q.: You
won’t go far without lessons... .G.C.: A heavy
and clumsy effort D.S.: You should do well
when you gain more confidence. Draw on a
larger scale... .S.M.M.: This week’s worst....
F. : Promising “rough-outs”; try some com-
pleted jobs... .L. 8.: Hopeless M.F.: Can-
not see the connection between the wheeze and
the drawing... .E.H.: No use for freakish draw-
ing in which a dressmaker’s model and a doll
are reclining on a plank of wood in mid-air
J. 8.: Slight variation of ancient parson-and-
golfer gag....5.W.: A tame pun and a dis-
orderly sketch H.N.: If the light was fall-
ing in that direction the figure wouldn’t be in
shadow... .W.H.D.: The cow, the cat, the
rooster and the oaf with the bagpipes are all
wretchedly drawn G.T.: You must have had
spots before your eyes M.F.C.: Two lifeless
figures and an incomprehensible joke... .A.G.:
A yawn-provoker A.G.D.: A dismal job.
. ...E.M.E.: No parking space for your lop-
sided elephant J. 8.5.: Stiff.
FROM CHINA TO PERU.
A certain Bulusu Sambamurthy, who
has been elected first Speaker of the
Madras Legislative Assembly, turned up
clad in a loincloth and a cotton strip.
Other members are following his
example. Here it is the taxpayers who
lose their shirts.
% * * it:
“M.”: The civil war in Spain will prob-
ably end without the much-cabled “with-
drawal of foreign troops” taking place.
It might be easy to withdraw the out-
siders fighting on Franco’s side, but
those on the other side are mainly made
up of political exiles and others whom
the Spanish Government has “nation-
alised.” They either have no country to
which to withdraw or they are officially
Spaniards. Franco and his backers
would be mugs to agree to the one-sided
arrangement.
* * * *
“Jockteleg”: The story of the sheep-
dog that only understood Gaelic (B.
14/7/’37) was entitled “Kennedy’s Dog”
and was written by H. A. Lindsay. It
appeared in The Bulletin ; it was all
fact; was written exactly as it occurred,
with even the names of the two pas-
toralists concerned unaltered. “M.” is
mistaken in thinking that it took place
in Maoriland, however ; Jock Kennedy
and Locky McKinnon were identities of
the pastoral country lying between Nara-
coorte and Mt. Gambier (S.A.), a district
pioneered chiefly by Scots folk.
* $ # $
“X.T.”: Black Brother is a man of
ideas sometimes. Simi Biara, a toiler of
Thursday Island, receiving a cheque for
£1 10s. from a pearling company, was
told by friends that he had been under-
paid. Nothing seemed simpler to Simi
than to put the matter right by altering
£1 into £7. He made no attempt to use
the cheque beyond showing it at a store.
Simi left the court shaking his head over
the queer ways of the whitefeller who
inflicts suspended sentences on people
for taking obvious short cuts.
% H*
“Aigburth”: Maurice Tate, last of the
great spin bowlers, will be seen no more
in the Sussex eleven. Son of a cricket
professional who also won to Test-match
standard as a fast left-hand bowler,
Maurice began with Sussex when only
17. In Australia in 1924-25 he did won-
derful work with the ball, and his bag
of 38 wickets in Tests that season still
stands as a record. Here again with
Chapman in 1928-29 he was not so suc-
cessful, and when he followed Jardine’s
side out to Australia, after illness had
kept him in England, he was not given
a chance in the Tests. In all Test matches
Tate took 83 wickets at 30.62, and in
England he was a thousand-runs-a-season
batsman for a long time.
* * * *
“Prunes and Prisms”: Much fuss,
facetious and otherwise, has been made
over the strict surveillance exercised by
their managerettes over the Australian
girl cricketers, and in many quarters it
has been regarded as the limit in wow-
serism and something quite new in
social convention. But the “Times”
special number celebrating the 150th
anniversary of the Marylebone C.C.
shows this view to be an erroneous one.
It quotes from Lillywhite’s Cricketers’
Annual for 1892 in reference to a newly-
formed Women’s Cricket Association in
England. Says the forerunner of Wisden :
“Every effort is made to keep the organi-
sation in every respect select and refined.
A matron accompanies each eleven to
all engagements.” As the French pro-
verb puts it, “the more things change, the
more they are the same.”
* * * *
“Jindivick”: The old inn signboards
whose disappearance is deplored in Aus-
tralia (B. 14/7/’37) are being revived in
England. In the old coaching days they
were frequently elaborate affairs, many
of them the work of famous painters.
When the railways displaced the coaches
and the road trade declined, the sign-
boards gradually gave way to lettered
titles, but now that the motor is super-
seding the iron horse the English coun-
tryside has broken out in a dense rash of
“road houses,” the owners of which,
realising the value of an attractive appeal
to the eye, have revived the old sign
post-and-board. Modern artists are in
demand for the job, and are receiving
transatlantic orders as well as British
ones.


QUICK FACTS
ABOUT
FIXED DEPOSITS
Shrewd investors know the value ot
interest-bearing Fixed Deposits, which
combine safety of principal with a
reasonable, assured rate of interest.
That is why there is £226,000,000 on
Fixed Deposit in Australia.
This Bank accepts Fixed Deposits
(from £5 upwards) from all sections
of the community.
Interest at current banking rates is
paid on all Fixed Deposits received
by the Bank.
RURAL BANK
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
HEAD OFFICE: MARTIN PLACE. SYDNEY
Commissioners: C. R. McKerihan 'President), H. Rogers, P. Kearns
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
eean„
\aVe(
SYDNEY
m
fIUCKLRND
[INGTO
Notable modern features include the Gymnasium, enclosed Promenade and
Observation Deck, Men’s and Women’s Club Rooms, Verandah Cafe and Dance
Room, as well as the Library and Writing Room, Luxurious Lounge, Music
Room, etc. t _ . _ _
The “Awatea” carries First and Tourist Class Passengers.
Regular Service maintained between Sydney, Auckland and Wellington.
For all Particulars apply:
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z., LTD.
(Incorporated in N.Z.)
247 George Street, Sydney. 59 William Street, Melbourne.
u
THE NEW
UNION
LUXURY
LINER
AWATEA”
CROSSES THE
TASMAN IN
2i DAYS!
This 23-knot express liner has set
a new standard in Trans-Tasman
travel.
THE ILL-STARRED 1893 TOUR.
No. 6 of a series of articles on Old Cricketers.
In some respects the 1893 eleven
(Blackham’s) was the unluckiest team
that ever visited England. It certainly
aroused more controversy than any
other has done; and the controversy
began before it was even selected. An
absentee from the 1888 and 1890 elevens,
George Giffen, now 34, and indisputably
the greatest all-rounder of the day, had
intimated that he was willing to go to
England again ; but it was said, and uni-
versally believed, that he wouldn’t go
without his brother Walter.
George denied that this had been made
a condition. Victor Cohen, the manager
—still going strong in Sydney —denied it,
and so did the selectors when they picked
Walter. Other defenders of the brothers
recalled that Walter had played for Aus-
tralia against Shaw’s third team in 1887,
when George was not in the eleven, and
again against Lord Sheffield’s side in
1892 ; and that for S.A. v. Lord Shef-
field’s team he had made 45 n.o. out of a
total of 92. These representations were
ignored, and the picking of Walter be-
came the theme of impassioned protests,
mingled with gibes and jokes. Sporting
newspapers dropped into poetry on the
subject, the following being a sample:
If I should take the trip and tin
And leave him, I’d deserve a halter;
And I’ll be hanged if I join in
If they pass over Brother Walter.
Pray what’s the use of being great,
An indispensable big brother,
If Walter may not share the gate
And get his whack like any other?
My will more mighty is than all;
Committees may seem very knowing;
But though we all go to the wall,
To England Wal. with us is going.
It was alleged that George Giffen, in
conversation at the Adelaide Oval, had
said quite candidly that his acceptance
of the invitation that was certain to be
addressed to him would “depend on
how they treat my brother Walter.” A
retort attributed to Jack Lyons was:
“You’d better take the whole blooming
family with you.” “Not a bad idea,”
said a cynic, when the alleged incident
was related to him. “There are seven
Giffens; so only four more will be
needed.”
Not even South Australia was solid
for the Giffens. The brothers were play-
ing in a club match on the Adelaide
Oval and George’s bowling was being
knocked about. There was a roar from
the pavilion of “Put on brother Walter.”
Poor badgered George had the game,
stopped, and went looking for the inter-
rupter, intending to put a head on him ;
but had to give up the search.
Nor were the Giffens treated with any
consideration by their employers. George
had a £3'-a-week job in the Adelaide
Post Office, where he had worked for 12
years. He was granted 12 months’ leave
of absence without pay. Walter made
meters for the S.A. Gas Co. To join
the party for England he had to -resign,
and the company gave him no under-
taking that he would be re-employed.
Even in those, years, George could have
got £lO a week as a professional in Eng-
land, and he had good cause for feeling
PJCKING THE TEAM FOR ENGLAND.
An Old Suggestion to Selectors.
that he owed the public nothing. In the
evening of his career and that of Jack
Lyons, South Australia was much more
generous.
Though Bonnor was still playing
country cricket about Orange. (N.S.W.),
Jack Lyons had succeeded him as slogger
in representative elevens, and at this
period Lyons was at the height of his
fame. In Adelaide club cricket he had
made for Norwood 101 in 38 minutes,
smiting six fives (they would be sixes
nowadays) and 13 fours. When his wicket
was taken in an intercolonial match on
the Sydney Cricket Ground half a dozen
pigeons were sent up from the Hill to
bear away the. news.
Jack Lyons was a simple character,
not conscidusly humorous, but the
cause of humor in others. When the
1890 team was playing in the English
provinces, he and other Australians
visited the local theatre. On one side of
Jack sat a gentleman and a lady ; and
the escort, after eyeing the big Adelaide
man curiously, said “Excuse me, but
aren’t you Mr. Jenkinson.” “No,”
replied Jack affably, “I’m Mr. Lyons —
Jack Lyons, of the Australian eleven.”
“Ha, a cricketer,” quoth the gentleman.
“Great game, cricket.” “It is,” replied
Jack, “but a fellow gets some hard
knocks occasionally. Cock your eye at
this,” and, pulling up a trouser-leg to the
knee, he exhibited a huge swelling to the
stranger’s astounded gaze. The lady, too,
threw a few covert glances at the mas-
sive limb. “Feel it,” quoth Jack heartily.
The stranger felt it, and agreed that it
was a very hard bump indeed.
But Jack was not yet satisfied, though
in a mood to satisfy all the world. “You
feel it, too, lady,” he said, “and see
what us cricketers have got to put up
with.” The lady reached over a dainty
gloved hand and touched the swelling
with the tip of one finger. Jack, watch-
ing her face for traces of hero-worship,
noticed her make a grimace and lift her
hand to her nose, “Ah,” he said proudly,
“you’re right, Missus ; that’s eucalyptus.
We cure everything with eucalyptus in
Australia. I’ve got some on the other
leg —wait till I show you.” But just
then the band began to play.
Another member of the 1893 team was
Coningham, the Queenslander. There
being no market for his talents in
Queensland, Coningham came to Sydney
and played a few matches with N. S.
Wales, being a pretty good all-rounder.
In Brisbane he had also made a name
for himself as a runner, and on one occa-
sion stood to win £llOO in a Sheffield
handicap. It was a very close finish ; the
crowd thought Coningham had won, but
the judge declared for the other fellow,
and there was such a row that the
bottom fell out of the local boom in
Sheffield handicaps. It was complained
that Coningham was “addicted to
monkeyish tricks and antics that were
peculiar to Brisbane. There is no Mel-
bourne or Sydney decorum in the bar-
barous north.”
Ernie Jones had arrived in Adelaide
from the Barrier and was doing great
execution with his fast bowling. For
South Adelaide v. Norwood (the club to
which the Giffens, as well as Lyons, be-
longed) he took six wickets for 66, all clean
bowled, and 6 for 49, five clean bowled ;
and he skittled six Adelaide wickets for
66. He also got Hugh Trumble for “a
pair” in the intercolonial match, twice
bowling him third ball. Unfortunately,
Jones was considered too green for an
English tour. His subsequent history
suggests that as an express—the team
was without one —and a wonderful
fieldsman in almost any position, he
would have been of the greatest ser-
vice that year. Trumble, one of the
1893 men, thought he should have gone
that year; and so did Murdoch. He
played football instead, being a great
half-back.
The comet of the 1892-1893 season in
Australia was Harry Graham, who


HAD RHEUMATIC PAINS
FOR 25 YEARS
His Arms Were Becoming
Useless
It was about 25 years ago that rheumatism
first marked down this sufferer; and finally the
day came when he could hardly lift his arms.
But he found relief—here in this letter he tells
the whole story:
“About 25 years ago I first experienced slight
muscular rheumatism in my arm and shoulder.
A few years later lumbago also attacked me.
They gradually got worse until the pain got
acute in both arms and loins. 1 could not
lift a quart jugful of water with my arm ex-
tended straight out. About 12 months ago I
bought a bottle of Kruschen Salts and by the
time it was finished I was agreeably surprised
at a slight improvement. I bought another one,
and when that was finished all the pain had dis-
appeared, and has never appeared since.” —
T.R.
If you could see the knife-edged crystals of
uric acid under the microscope you would
readily understand why they cause those cut-
ting pains. Kruschen dulls the sharp edges of
those crystals, then dissolves them away alto-
gether.
,/1L«
/
X 1
r J
| "
OMN
R*fS
H«SSSiiH
«^ k llh^.
Every BLUE GILLETTE
blade is
ELECTRICALLY TEMPERED
GIVING . . .
• extra hardness to the cutting edge
• extra strength to the cutting edge
• extra keenness
• extra life and better shaving
Packet of Five 1/6
BLUE GILLETTES
ELECTRICALLY-TEMPERED BLADES
GILLETTE RAZORS
AND BLADES are
made for each other
zlliiT
played club cricket for South Melbourne
with Harry Trott, and was a dashing
footballer withal. Unthought of at the
beginning, he played himself into Black-
ham’s team by a succession of dazzling
innings, particularly 86 not out for Vic-
toria against S.A. on the Melbourne
Cricket Ground. There has probably
never been a batsman who was faster on
his feet than Graham, and in that match
he astonished Giffen, and delighted the
crowd, by running out to the slows and
smiting them to the fence on the full.
He was equally fearless with fast bowl-
ing, and his bad-wicket batting was mas-
terly ; his outfielding, moreover, has
rarely been surpassed. But his habits
were convivial ; rheumatism clawed him
in its clutch, and he was a back number
before he was 30.
The English found Graham an un-
sophisticated youth. After the first
match the Australians were Lord Shef-
field’s guests at the usual banquet, and
a duke was among those present.
According to one story—probably a lie —
the captain warned the colt to be on
his best behavior, “and, if the duke
speaks to you, be sure to say ‘your
Grace.’ ” Speak to him the duke did,
in the most affable fashion. “Well, my
boy,” he said, “we’ve beaten you at
Sheffield Park. Do you think you’ll beat
Warwickshire at Birmingham?” “For
what we are about to receive, may the
Lord make us truly thankful,” replied
“Grummy.” “My oath, I do, mister!”
Graham was one of the batting suc-
cesses of the 1893 team. He headed the
averages with 1492 at 28.69. But Lyons
almost equalled his average and had a
better aggregate —1605 at 28.66. Before
he left Adelaide, Lyons prophesied that
he would “dazzle them at Lord’s” ; and
he did, scoring on the historic ground
144 and 83 against M.C.C., in each case
by tremendous slogging. At the Oval
the South Australian made the biggest
hit ever seen there, lifting a ball clean
over the pavilion into the road.
Seven members of the team made
upwards of a thousand runs (the others
were Trott, Bannerman, Giffen, Bruce and
Syd Gregory), and three bagged upwards
of 100 wickets —Turner 160 at 13.76,
Hugh Trumble 123 at 16.39 and George
Giffen 148 at 17.89. Giffen’s batting
figures were 1280 at 23.70; brother
Walter’s were 248 at 13.77.
But it was a very in-and-out side. The
first match, against Lord Sheffield’s
eleven, was lost by eight wickets, and the
fifth, against Yorkshire, by 64 runs.
Surrey, M.C.C. and the South of Eng-
land also licked the tourists. But Lanca-
shire, Oxford, Cambridge, the Players,
Kent and the North of England were put
through handsomely, and a respectable
showing was made in the first Test match
at Lord’s, which was drawn: England
334 (Shrewsbury 106, Jackson 91 ;
Turner 6 for 67) and 8 for 234 (Shrews-
bury 81, Gunn 77; Giffen 5 for 43) ;
Australia 269 (Graham 107, Gregory 57 ,
Lockwood 6 for 101).
The second Test match, at the Oval,
was lost by an innings and 43. England
made 483 (Jackson 103, Stoddart 83,
Grace 68, Shrewsbury 66, Ward 55 and
W. W. Read 52 ; Giffen 7 for 128); Aus-
tralia 91 (Lyons 19) and 349 (Trott 92,
Bannerman 55, Giffen 53, Graham 42,
Lyons 31, Bruce 22). In the match
Briggs took 10 for 148 and Lockwood
8 for 133. A roar of disappointment
went up in Australia, and after that the
losers got no peace.
“What a night the Australians must
have had previous to the Test match at
the Oval! Eleven catches were missed
off Stoddart’s batting.” That was one
protest.
“Afterwards, Briggs and Lockwood
put them out in an hour and forty
minutes. After a full day’s leather-
hunting in almost tropical heat, most of
the Australians must needs go to a music
hall and indulge in etceteras overnight.”
“There has been much trouble,” a
seeker after truth confided to the world.
“The teetotallers complain that they are
doing all the heavy work.
Another reviewer claimed to have
spotted what he called the tourists’ “great
deficiency—ignorance concerning effec-
tive pick-me-ups.” A Bulletin con-
tributor, however, pointed out that
“notoriously unsteady men are doing
well,” adding: “No matter how much
they may quarrel privately it is hardly
likely to affect their cricket. Taking
them man for man, they are probably as
good a team as ever left these shores,
and yet they have shown so little luck,
pluck and nerve that authorities on the
game consider them no better than a
second-class county XI. They have no
mana, They had better come home.”
A couple of successes over Gloucester
and Second-class Counties preceded the
third Test match at Manchester, which
was drawn in favor of the Englishmen:
Australia 204 (Bruce 68, Trumble 35,
Lyons 27 ; Richardson 5 for 49, Briggs
4 for 81) and 236 (Bannerman 60, Bruce
36, Lyons 33, Turner 27, Blackham 23
not out; Richardson 5 for 107); Eng-
land 243 (Gunn 102 not out, Grace 40 ;
Giffen 4 for 113, Bruce 2 for 26) and
4 for 118 (Grace 45, Stoddart 42,
Shrewsbury 19 not out; Trumble 3 for
49). Then Nottingham was beaten with
an innings to spare, and the last match
against South of England was lost by six
wickets. In all 17 matches were won, 10
lost and eight drawn.
Odd stories about Coningham drifted
back. One scribe wrote that “He often
stopped the ball with that part of his
anatomy which every right-thinking
cricketer keeps in reserve.” Again, “At a
dinner one evening, the Queenslander
called for three cheers for Queen Vic-
toria. Seizing a boiled leg of mutton by
the shank bone, he whirled it round his
head, sending at every hip a shower of
caper sauce over the people in his neigh-
borhood.
“Out in the field one cold day, Coning-
ham passed his spare time piling against
the fence all the dried grass he could lay
his hands upon, the crowd meanwhile
indulging in all softs of speculations as
to what his game was. After the ninth
English wicket fell, he set the onlookers’
minds at rest by putting a match to the
heap and crouching over the fire like a
blackfellow. ‘Ah,’ he exclaimed to those
in his neighborhood, ‘I haven’t been
warm for a week.’ ”
Charlie Turner has nevertheless placed
it on record that Coningham, sportive as
he was in the field, was an abstemious
fellow.
“What these chaps lack,” wrote a cor-
respondent who accompanied them, “is
someone among them to whom they can
look up. Murdoch used to keep his men
in order by sheer force of will, and the
presence of Massie had a wonderful
effect upon the 1882 team. Blackham
is well liked, but he has no real influ-
ence over the fellows. Hence all the
trouble.”
Blackham came in for criticism on
another score: “He is no longer the
wicketkeeper he was. Brilliant at times
and still capable of snapping up many
a catch in the old style; but hard
knocks are not to his liking now —and
small blame to him!” England’s Test-
match scores (four innings) were sup-
plemented by 105 sundries.
There was one comment with quite a
modern touch: “In future, Australian
cricketers visiting England will not be
allowed to take their wives. Wives are
found to be a strangely disturbing ele-
ment. But if a cricketer’s wife says he
shan’t go without her, what then? It
will be George Giffen and his little
brother Walter over again.”
Old Lillywhite’s words, spoken in
1883, were ruefully recalled: “Some
day,” said Lillywhite, “an Australian XI
will visit our shores without Spofforth.
Then, and not till then, will his full
strength to the side be realised.” The
veteran’s prophecy was borne out. The
1893 Australians had to meet Richard-
son and Lockwood, the two greatest fast
bowlers England has ever put into one
team, at the zenith of their powers. It
was remarked that they didn’t win a
single match in which Richardson was
on the other side, nor one in which
Grace, Shrewsbury, Stoddart or Jackson
batted against them.
Affie Jarvis’s batting average in repre-
sentative matches was quoted: Five
innings, once not out; most in an innings,
0 ; runs, 0 ; average, 0.
In a final review, The Bulletin was
impressed with “the great mass of ex-
planations” furnished by the wanderers
when they returned, This “commenced
as soon as the team landed, and raged
for weeks. And after the explanation,
the saddest thing was the want of ex-,
planation.
“The team came ashore silently, and
without any semblance of an ovation, and
went its lonesome way, mostly by twos.
No one man was apparently on cordial
terms with more than one other man,
and in some cases he didn’t appear to be
on cordial terms even with him. The
majority of members, when interviewed,
seemed to have been too depressed even
to complain violently. But they insinu-
ated things in a dreary, bilious, dyspeptic
fashion. Some of them ‘weren’t pre-
pared to say’ that one member’s nose
hadn’t been pulled, or that another mem-
ber hadn’t used unprintable language,
or that somebody didn’t want to fight
somebody else under lamentable circum-
stances, but nobody denied anything
with much vigor. It was stated, in a
general sort of way, that the team wasn’t
quite so drunk as was commonly sup-
posed, but if it didn’t overdrink itself it
probably overate itself instead. Its atti-
tude seemed to suggest great masses of
undigested food, more than anything
else, as the principal disturbing influ-
ence.”


“Spare Skeats”: Why do some Sydney
newspapers take their cue from Holly-
wood when chronicling Australian hap-
penings? An account of measures pro-
jected for dealing with the superfluous
deer in Sydney’s National Park has it that
“corrals” are to be built and when'the
deer have been lured into them the
“corrals” are to be shut and the deer
liquidated. Preference for such Spanish-
American words instead of good English
terms like “yard” or the Australian “trap
yard” can be explained only by the Holly-
wood obsession. Similarly “hut” and
the. good Australian “humpy” have been
deposed in favor of “shack” and “cabin.”
Sometimes in my darker moments I find
myself wishing that writers of this kidney
could be taken out to some open space
and torn to pieces by wild “broncos,”
“mustangs,” “dogies” and other speci-
mens of Hollywood’s ferocious fauna.
* * * *
“Tuart”: For all its flapperishness and
its adoration of the female leg, the
modern newspaper strikes me as singu-
larly ungallant. It repeatedly discloses
ladies’ ages in a coarse and unnecessary
way, and denies them the “Miss” and
“Mrs.” which were refused only to
criminals by our forefathers. And even
the deprived criminals had their cham-
pions ; Matthew Arnold devoted portion
of an essay to a protest against a servant
girl charged with infanticide being de-
scribed in a newspaper report as “Wagg.”
Had he lived long enough to read reports
of feminine cricket matches he would find
the players referred to as plain “Peden,”
“Pritchard” and “Smith,” though
“Peden,” for example, is a married lady.
In week-end lists of car accidents, the
age, as well as the occupation and con-
dition, of every woman who figures in
them is invariably given, though the dis-
closure might, in some cases, conceivably
affect the victim’s job or matrimonial
prospects. And in the latest “mysterious-
disappearance case,” that of a Sydney
waitress, it was meticulously explained
that she was a single woman, aged 52, who
by putting up an elaborate bluff had con-
trived to impress her customers as being
a lot younger. This when there was
nothing to show that her body, and that
of a barman with whom she had gone
boating, would be fished out of the river
in National Park. Imagine, the ridicule
the poor thing would have had to put
up with had she returned to her job!
* * * *
“O. W. Waireki’ r : The announcer was
speaking of the Polish Corridor, but re-
ception was not very clear. “What’s he
talking about?” Mum asked. “The
Polish Toreador,” said Dad ; “you know
—Mussolini.”
* ❖ H* ❖
“Hgaerc”: As regular Bulletin
readers (B. 28/7/’37) the long-distance
record of two of my relatives, a father
and son, will be hard to beat. Dad
bought the first copy published, and con-
tinued to read the paper every week
until his death last year at 88. Son
first read it as a boy in his father’s
house, and has kept up the practice ever
since. He is now 63 years old.
JJS * * *
“D.E.”: Are we never to get rid of the
clumsy and ugly expressions that came
in with the war? I question it when I
read that women and children have been
“evacuated” from some Spanish port,
and see the current policy of Stalin de-
scribed (in the “new” Sydney “D.T.”)
as an “endless purge.” Also that some-
body or other has been issued “with”
various articles (in less contentious times
the articles were always issued “to”
somebody or other), and that one of the
armies in North China has “suffered the
heaviest losses” —a calamity which used
to befall the Germans at least once a
week, although to suffer “the heaviest”
losses is to be annihilated. Really, it is
no use railing at false English when it
becomes sanctioned by long custom. Take
the expression “owing to,” often em-
ployed ridiculously, as in “owing to” an
outbreak of infantile paralysis a Boy
Scout jamboree has been abandoned and
“children’s sessions” at cinema theatres
have been forbidden. Neither the Boy
Scouts nor the proprietors of the theatres
nor yet the children deprived of their
Mickey Mouse would acknowledge any
obligation to that outbreak. Such ab-
surdities pass muster, for, as I have to
acknowledge sadly, “owing to,” used to
signify “because of,” is general and at
least a century old ; I have found it in
Carlyle.
“Malaprop”: Is there any more glar-
ing misuse of English in the newspaper
world than is contained in the words
“By Our Foreign Editor,” a stereotyped
headline in most of our dailies for a
review of happenings abroad? A foreign
editor would obviously be one of alien
race, not one whose job is to enlighten
his own countrymen on what foreign
nations are doing.
* ' * - ’ *. • -* ,
“Gumblegubbin”: Tweed Heads,' at
the N.S.W.-Queensland border, has just
celebrated its golden jubilee as a town-
ship. It is the wettest spot in .N.S.W.,
the nearest rival in that respect to Innis-
fail (N.Q.). Due west is Hungerford,
which straddles the border line on the
Paroo, andf is the record dry town on
that alignjment. At this town, which is,
Hungerford in both States, beer flows as
usual orYState election days.
; * •* *
“Captain Pintle”: Sight of the new
Port Jackson, bowling northward at 16
knots under her 10,200 h.p. of motor
power, brought back apprentice days in
sail, when we lay near the first of her
name in Liverpool Docks. First, too, of
the PoTt Line which William Milburn
“Good morning, lady -may I show you some samples ?”
founded in 1883 ; brig-rigged, painted
with imitation gunports, with 350-h.p.
compound engines to help out her quite
tidy spread of canvas, she was a hand-
some craft of that day. My opposite
number in her half-deck is now a famous
Cunard commander. A tactless remark
about coalheaving steamer-sailors earned
me at his hands one of the finest black
eyes I’ve ever worn, but the first mate
ventured the, opinion that my opponent’s
nose would carry a permanent list to
starboard. It puzzled me, when we met
again last year, to notice that the list
was to port, until he explained that an-
other blanky colonial beef-hound had
altered the deflection a year or so later
during a precisely similar argument.
H* H* H»
“Senex”: “James W.” (B. 28/7/’37) is
in error when he states that the Towns-
ville City Council in war-time changed
the name of one of the local parks from
German Gardens to Belgian Gardens,
and that the park was really named after
Edward German, the composer. There
has never been any such park, but in
the ’seventies a German family named
Bartels had a small vineyard there to
which people referred as the German
Garden. As settlement spread this came
to be the name of the surrounding
suburb, which was changed to Belgian
Gardens during the war.
*** * -
“Mak”: Touching on the recent men-
tion of Marconi’s radio-telephone con-
versation with Australia in March, 1930,
E. C. Lindsay, an Irish linen merchant
in Flinders-lane, Melbourne, rang Syd-
ney from Belfast, Ireland, on May $
that year, the, earliest private radio
’phone call to these,parts that I’ve heard
of. The receipt for the £lO 10s. convef-
sation hangs in Lindsay’s office to-day,
along with a later cable from Hooper
and Harrison, Sydney woollen mer-
chants, stating that he had been “heard
fairly well” and adding the comment,
“wonderful.” To-day’s cost of a call
from Melbourne to Belfast would be
£4 10s., plus exchange, for three minutes,
with an extra charge of £1 10s. for every
additional minute. There is an even
lower week-end rate of £3 3s. for a
three-minute yarn with the U.K.
.*.. * * *
Dead Finish : Think Ive met that
Mister whose lady-in-waiting so squelched
Mallam for speaking of him as
Doctor (B. 21/7/’37). In the Mel-
bourne hospital where I was satisfac-
torily cut up, according to everyone bar
myself, the little girl whose job it was to
look after me at night had to call Saw-
bones in one evening. In answer to a
question fired at her, she carelessly re-
plied “No, Doctor!” Sawbones turned
as if stung by a redback spider, and
barked “ Mister, Nurse!” She, however,
got even with “Sister, Mister!” Although
pretty cronk, I enjoyed it hugely.
* _ * * * „
6236 : Truly the kilt as part or the
war-time uniform dies a hard death; in
one small war, however, it was tempor-
anly abolished. That was the brief
Ashanti campaign, in which the Black
Watch wore trews. The subsequent
taring began in Chitral, the brass rim
3 • L i L , s P? rran being covered
with, khaki. My regiment (the Gordons)
went ..to South Africa thus rigged, but
the Elandslaagte casualties included so
many men shot in the groin (and there-
abouts) that the sporran itself was called
in, a khaki apron.taking its place. This,
in turn, was followed by an overall
enveloping the kilt.all round. The agony
caused by the chafing of the pleating
against the back of legs already denuded
of epidermis by tropical suns was almost
beyond endurance.
;jc . H 1
“Den.”: Further to a recent para-
graph, 15 of the 39 Prime Ministers -of
England-were grounded at Eton. Harrow
is a.poor second with six. Westminster
has had three—all in the eighteenth
century, when that foundation was the
most exclusive school in England—and
Glasgow High School two. Charter-
house, Rugby, City of -London and Win-
chester claim one apiece. .Two were
products of board schools, and the re-
mainder privately educated. ' >
* * ,
“Nordbo” : While atebrin and quinine
are doubtless useful in the fight against
malaria, these drugs cannot correctly, be
said, to be responsible for the eradica-
tion of the malady (B. 28/7/,’37)." It’s
the - opening-tip ‘of * the country which
does the-trick —the filling in of-swamps
and clearing of jungle which destroys the
i haunts of 'mosquitoes. To-day malaria
has i few terrors in the Cairns (N.Q.)
valley ; Jess than 50 years ago the disease
was a deadly menace. Better food and
sanitation and less whisky and rum are
other influences accounting for the con-
quest of fevers.
*y* * *
, . “Ex-P.8.-L”-: The Chemical Warfare
branch of the U.S.A. War ’ Department
has; placed it on record that, of the
hundreds; of lethal gases, known to
science, only 'three—-phosgene, chlorine
' and mustard gas—have been proved of
practical use as destructive agents,
Laboratory research has discovered many
gases far more deadly, but no method
has been found of obtaining adequate
concentrations with them in free air. In
enclosed spaces, such as rooms, dugouts
and so forth, the lethal action of some
of these new gases is terribly effective,
Most of them are too costly to be manu-
factured on a large scale. Many people
have a vague idea that mustard gas is
comparatively innocuous; it was the
most deadly of the war gases, and men
who were severely exposed to it have
suddenly gone blind, 15 or 20 years
later. Doctors can still only generalise
as to the after-effects of gas; the re-
actions on two men, affected under iden-
tical conditions, may be totally different,
* ¥ * *
“Twenty-seven”: Mr. Moses, of the
A.8.C., is lamenting the dearth of
players of the horn, bassoon and oboe,
It would be a pity if the last of these
woodwinds were to become extinct. The
plaintive, somewhat wobbly tones'of the
horn always seem to cause conductors
concern, and even the efforts of Cole-
ridge and Tennyson could not make
people take the bassoon seriously, but
the oboe is in a different class. As the
hautbois or hautboy (it supplied the treble
to the woodwinds) the musicians of
mediaeval times used it to liven up pro-
ceedings, along with lutes and the like,
Admittedly its upper tones are thin and
piercing, its lower ones harsh and nasal,
but the middle register’s not so bad.
* * * *
• “Sikes”: A convicted prisoner having
made an appeal for mercy which Judg;
Curlewis (N.S.W.) described as “pathetic,”
on the ground that the man had only a
few months to live, was considerately re-
manded by his Honor for a medical
report. On his reappearance in the dock
the Judge was able to reassure the
delinquent who feared his days were
numbered. “You will be delighted to
hear,” the pronouncement ran, “that you
are not suffering from either t.b. or heart
trouble, and there is no reason for you
to worry further.” Delighted is good.
But the prisoner’s delight may well have
been tempered by the sentence of 18
months’ imprisonment that his clean bill-
of-health brought him.
* * * *
“Tamerlane”: The London “Morning
Post,” with its 100,000 circulation, has
been swamped at last by the millions of
London’s • flapper newspapers. It held
out hardily. A few years ago it gave
Rothermere, who was trying to acquire
it, a classic rebuke. The noble gent.,
during a controversy with the “Post,”
chided it on the poverty of its circula-
tion. Leader-writer Colvin retorted:
The great newspaper magnate appears to
be unable to forgive us for continuing to
exist. That there should be an independent
newspaper still alive in England seems to be
intolerable to him. “It must be,” he says,
“galling to run an unsuccessful newspaper
. year in, year out.” Probably; we do not
know; but to run it for 160 years would be
so incredible a feat that Lord Rothermere
must see that his hypothesis is untenable.
Between the circulation of the Northchtte
press and the circulation of the “Morning
Post” there is no ground of comparison.
A cigar merchant is not galled when he
hears that someone else has sold more ot
Woodbines in a year than he has sold ot
Corona Coronas in a lifetime.
There was no comeback.
POETS’ FARE.
“Chameleons feed on light and air,”
So Shelley said (and Shelley knew),
But rather more substantial fare
We mundane poets like to chew.
The air may be surcharged with dew,
The light may like the noonday shine,
But bards of every age and hue
Like something solid when they dine.
They may not sigh for dainties rare,
Or wish to eat, as gourmands do,
Expensive things like caviare;
We leave those dainties to the -few
Whose meal is scarcely ever through
Ere for the next they start to pine;
But we’re of those who, plain and true,
Like something solid when we dine.
No poet, whether stout or spare,
Whether of ruddy blood or blue, ;
Whether a son of want and care
6r of the merrymaking crew,
But needs a meal, and likes it too!
The star-born followers of the Nine
(The tip is straight from me to you!)
Like something solid when we dine.
Good friend, I tell, you nothing new,
And nothing you may not divine:
Poets (to give them all their due)
Like something solid when they dine.
N.S.W.
P. L. BLACK.


The Confidence that
Pelmanism Gives
j. Smith
PLUMOES
Pel-mamiSm develops
MPMORy
“ ‘CAN'T
has slipped
out of my
vocabulary,"
writes a Pelman
student.
“That great handicap, Inferiority
Consciousness, has gone for ever.
‘Can’t’ has just slipped out of my
vocabulary. The Course has broad-
ened my mind more than five years
of life could have done. I have been
able to distinguish the hollow things
of life, and—pushing them into the
background—-have discovered what
a really wonderful world this is.”
T HIS remarkable letter is one of
thousands received by the Pelman
Institute. It will come as a message
of hope to many of those who are
burdened by the fears and timidities
that are commonly known as In-
feriority Complex.
For, as the above letter shows, and
students of Pelmanism know, this in-
feriority handicap can be completely
overcome and the word “can’t” can
be eliminated from everyone’s voca-
bulary by Pelmanism, scientific mind
training which all can follow, which
takes up very little time, and is as
interesting to practise as it is effective
in its results.
People
whose Talents
are Wasted
There are few weak-
nesses so harmful as
the feeling of per-
sonal inferiority. It
injures your pros-
pects of success. It
strikes at the very
root of your happiness.
i!
ill
Pelmanism DEVELOPS
RESOURCEFULNESS
You may be extremely talented in many
directions. But if you have no confidence
in yourself these talents will be largely
wasted.
As a matter of fact, inferiority con-
sciousness is often found in association
with mental gifts that are above the ordi-
nary ; for it is particularly liable to be
harboured by the Sensitive tempera-
ment, which is frequently associated with
keen intelligence. The mind of the “Sen-
sitive,” freed from this hostile influence,
may be capable of great and even soaring
achievements, if only it is trained in the
right way, and that, as the letter already
quoted shows, is the Pelman way.
People who are Afraid
This lack of Self-Confidence, this feel-
ing of Inferiority, those wretched fears
or phobias, take different forms with dif-
ferent people. There are people even
to-day who shrink from using the tele-
phone. There are many people who are
afraid to open the door of their em-
ployer’s room. There are people who
allow their rights to be taken from them,
who are pushed aside by more determined
rivals, who are tongue-tied when ques-
tioned, who are afraid to act because they
do not know what the consequences
will be.
Fears Banished and Self-
Confidence Developed
. &
PelmaMlSm DEN/ELOP9
COncentrat*on
Here are a few re-
ports taken at ran-
dom from the tens
o f thousands o f
similar statements
that could be quoted
did space permit:
“Cured Fear.”—
“Pelm ani s m has
cured the fear of self
and of failure to
keep pace with my colleagues at the
office, the fear of criticism, of interviews,
of social company, and of rush periods.
I have also learnt how to control the
fear of the unexpected.”
“Inferiority Complex is Dead.”—
“I have rid myself of all fears of the
future. The inferiority complex is dead.
The Course has improved my Memory.
I have now a definite aim in life.”
“Improved Concentration.”—
“Increased Self-Confidence, Improved
Concentration, Quicker Decisions, Pel-
man principles applied to an ordinary
round day’s work make it an interesting,
sometimes an absorbing, procedure.”
“Personality has Developed.”—
“I have lost nervous fear. I am more
self-confident. I take more interest in
Nature and everything in general. I have
also more interest in my work. My
powers of Observation are better now
than I have ever known them to be be-
fore. My personality has developed, and
I have gained a lot in knowledge.”
“Confidence in Myself.” — “The
Course has given me what I required—
namely, I have regained confidence in
myself. lam more businesslike. My
mind is better balanced than it was be-
fore. I am not at the mercy of my
emotions, and my general health has im-
proved.”
Correspondence Instruction
Pelmanism is a sys-
tem of Practical Psy-
chology which is
taught through the
post by expert in-
structors and is prac-
tised by the student
in his or her own
time and place.
Amongst the mental
disp osit i o n s de-
veloped by Pelmanism
ing:
0
Pelmanism develops
PRESENCE OP MIND
are the follow-
Self-Confidence
Moral Courage
Good Judgment
Initiative
Observational
Power
Determination
Decisiveness
Directive Ability
Concentration
Organising Power
Self-Control
Social Ease
Resourcefulness
Creative
Imagination
Reliability
A Reliable Memory
•Ha-
vVX^'
frBC
r-n n?
fc4?
Pelmanism oerveuopa
salesmanship
and all those quali-
ties which help to
build up Character,
to constitute a vivid,
strong Personality,
and to increase
Income - Earning
Power.
Pelmanism is a
necessity to every man and every woman
who wishes to do good work, to ensure a
good income, and to make the best of the
mental qualities with which all have been
endowed but that so many have ne-
glected to cultivate. Cultivate your mind
on Pelman lines and success will follow.
Enrol to-day for a Course of Pelmanism.
A copy of “The Efficient Mind," 76 pp.,
in which many people
speak of Pelmanism
from personal experi-
ence and which con-
tains the opinions of
Pelmanism contributed
by a number of the
most distinguished
men and women in
the Empire, will be
sent free on applica-
tion.
M3rnsr
:tT
Pelmanism develops
COURASE
Write or use the Request Form below:
THE PELMAN INSTITUTE,
For the Scientific Development of
Mind, Memory and Personality,
3 Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Lane,
Melbourne.
To the Pelman Institute,
3 Gloucester House,
396 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
Please send me, free and post free, a
copy of “The Efficient Mind.”
Name
Address
434
Headquarters: London. Established 40 years, 30 years in Australia. Over half a million Pelmanists; over
35,000 in Australia.
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO
WEEK'S ISSUE
AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
FD
AO
<p\\
Ws
1
w-
& * ? $
«A>
£>‘*jx&
&
V s
<l-’
CO'
* t#
.
„<! °let
C- .
SP
Oof
,» ,e,e«
.\\e*
,# 5S ~•••■ .
..••■ . of \°
■’ . .• ‘* c wV
.* ‘ * -}° vV<
i 6 «o> v 0<
/s< >


MILLIONS STARVING
ON THREE SQUARE MEALS A DAY
MINERALS ARE NEEDED BY
EVERY CELL IN
YOUR BODY.
CALCIUM
{ HE A R T.. TEETH.. BLOOD
l BONES.. NERVES
PHOSPHORUS
.( BRAIN . CL AMDS
1 BLOOD
■f BLOOD
POTASSIUM
{MUSCLE .. BLOOD
SODIUM
[BLOOD.
m
BIDOMAK
contains them all ...in
an easily assimilated
& pre-dissolved liquid form
A MIRACLE IN MEDICINE!
132 Layton St., Camperdown, Sydney.
Dear Sir, 15th March, 193 7.
Words in cold ink are poor expres-
sions of gratification for .the benefits 1
have derived from the use of BIDO-
MAK.
About August of 1936 I fell ill with
a severe nervous breakdown, caused
through years of political speaking
and activity followed on by worry
which brought on insomnia and other
ills.
After treatment in hospital for
nearly four months, what with rest
and proper nourishment I became well
enough to be able to leave for home.
When I came out in December I
started to take BIDOMAK, taking in
all about five bottles, and, believe me,
it is a miracle in medicine; and any
hangover 1 had after leaving the hos-
pital it banished like a magician’s
wand, made me a new man, built up
my body, strengthened my memory,
and helped the blood stream to
function properly; in fact, it did won-
ders, and I have no hesitation in
broadcasting this vital fact that it
stands paramount as a nerve, brain
and body builder.
There is one thing I noticed, that
the real value of its healing qualities
does not come immediately, but after
taking it for a few weeks the effect is
felt in the blood stream. BIDOMAK
is definitely all that it is proclaimed
to be. I have become a walking
advertisement for what BIDOMAK
can do. From a very grateful man.
Yours sincerely, (Sgd.) G. HENRY.
Safe and Good
for Men, Women
and Children
BIDOMAK contains no
alcohol, no drugs, no
narcotics, nor opiates.
It is the natural safe
way to health. It is
guaranteed to do you
good, or you may have
your money back.
Large Size Bottle
New Z land
t 3/6
m
■
Terrible diet deficiency of modem food minerals . . .
Amazing discoveries of modern medicine strike at root of
Nervous Troubles.
BENEFIT GUARANTEED
OR YOU PAY NOTHING IS OFFER MADE BY DISCOVERER OF
BIDOMAK
THE TONIC OF THE CENTURY
FOR MEN, WOMEN AND CHILDREN
Millions are starving on three square meals a day! That may seem a strange
statement but it is a true one, because many modem foods, due to over refine-
ment, are gravely short of certain mineral substances, without which the human
system cannot possibly remain in perfect health. Therefore we say millions
are starving for these vital minerals, which are drained from our system
through hard work, worry, over indulgence, and so forth; and which our
normal food supply does not replace.
Therefore we suffer from—
NERVES
Sleeplessness, depression, listlessness, Anaemia, nervous indigestion, neuralgia,
nerve pains, lack of confidence, headaches and similar constitutional disorders.
You may be suffering from some chronic
nagging complaint—headaches nervous dys-
pepsia, and the like; or you may* be num-
bered with the vast army of people who are
simply under par-lacking in pep, lacking the
energy and vitality it takes to make life &
pleasure and success. You may be sufteung
from the depressing influence of being con-
stantly tired—subject to headaches or colds or
a number of distressing minor ailments, unim-
portant in themselves, but serious m the way
they slow you up mentally and physically.
BIDOMAK has been formulated by a brilliant
research worker to overcome this mineral
starvation , and to provide a method of supply-
ing energy to the cells of the body wherever
the natural supply is insufficient to maintain
the normal activity of the organs and glands.
BIDOMAK is a scientific
compound—
of vital mineral elements which contains no
harmful drugs, apd which may be taken freely
by young or old. It contains ferrum, calcium,
sodium, potassium, phosphates, glycerophos-
phates and sucrose, as well as other necessary
elements. These are the cell foods which are
vitally necessary for the blood to build up and
maintain the cells and tissues of the body by
activating and rejuvenating the cells —which
banish the infirmities due to nerves and consti-
tutional weaknesses. BIDOMAK restores vital
energy and gives back youthful enthusiasm to
those who have been ill. It makes old
arteries young again—it tones up vital organs
which have become sluggish—it is winning
back for thousands the zest for life, the thrill
of popularity and the enthusiasm of wonderful
health and good spirits.
Blessing of Vigorous Health
For men, women and children of naturally weak
constitution BIDOMAK gives the chance of re-
vitalised vigorous health, whilst those who are
obliged by their work to be keyed up always
have found in Bidomak a most certain way of
keeping always thrillingly fit.
BIDOMAK Increases Oxygen
in the blood stream —
and thus it increases the supply of red cor-
puscles and charges the blood and tissues with
an increased supply of revitalising life-giving
oxygen.
BIDOM AK creates new
healthy nerve cells —
and provides a full supply of healthy nerve
fluid, at the same time removing poisons and
wastes from the system. BIDOM AK creates a
storage of energy and nerve force—overcomes
every run-down condition, every disorder not
due to germ attack but just to lack of energy
and drive; It gives that vitality so essential
to full recovery from illness —that tonic stimula-
tion without which convalescence is a long-
drawn-out agony of depression. It improves
the activity of every gland and organ in the
system, and suplements the driving force of the
complicated machinery housed in the human
body whenever that force falls below the re-
quirements of the individual.
Take a course of BIDOMAK and your whole
attitude towards life will be changed.
REJUVENATION
You will feel rejuvenated—remade—you will
discover this inner consciousness of well-being
will create for you a popularity you never
knew before. What a glorious satisfaction it
will be for you to enjoy the thrill of perfect
health without the aid of powders, tablets or
drugs—for this is just the enjoyment which will
be yours when you take a course of BIDO-
MAK. Read the reports of users, and you will
catch the spirit of their own enthusiasm —and
then go right down to your chemist this very
night and get yourself a bottle of BIDOMAK
—you will feel it doing you good from the very
first dose.
BENEFIT OR YOUR
MONEY BACK
So many nerve sufferers have obtained
immediate relief from BIDOMAK that
if you do not benefit by taking it we
will refund your money within 14 days
of purchase on return of the nearly
empty BIDOMAK bottle to the Douglas
Drug Co. Thus we guarantee you posi-
tive relief or you pay nothing.
k
FD
so“: WSttSStt
“..tf £SbS£ :"« C “a., t,,«4- Q^r.
