

S Efl
■
m
-■-A
m
m
1
1
0
r
W*
mmm
i
i n
IHamiltons
Investment and Financial Advisers
AUTHORISED CAPITAL £250,000
Head Office: KEMBLA BUILDING, MARGARET STREET, SYDNEY.
’Phones: 8W1146 and 1147. (G.P.O. Box 375255).
Branch Offices: Commercial Bank Chambers, Beardy St., Armidale, N.S.W,
’Phone Armidale 150; Box No. 123 Armidale.
'T'HE vital service rendered by
modern aviation demands a
vast, complex organisation, with
highly qualified personnel ensuring
successful aerial transport.
The investment service of Hamil-
tons (Australasia) Limited is a
nation-wide organisation, equipped
in every way to afford sound in-
vestment advice.
Your enquiries are invited.
VICTORIA:
stropolitan Building,
89-91 Queen Street,
Melbourne.
G.P.O. Box 520 J.
QUEENSLAND:
Bth Floor
A.M.P. Chambers,
Edward Street,
Brisbane.
50X 1017 N.
M
QUEENSLAND:
Bank of N.S.W. Chambers,
Flinders Street,
Townsville.
G.P.O. Box 280.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA*
C.M.L. Building,
King William Street,
Adelaide.
G.P.O. Box 650 P.
The Bulletin
Vol. 58.—N0. 3012.
Wednesday, November 3, 1937.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


DYMOCK’S NEW LIBRARY CATALOGUE
FOR 1937
is now ready and will be forwarded post free with
terms and particulars on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
“The Block,” 424-426 George Street, Sydnr.-.
The Red Page
New Fiction.
There Ain’t No Justice (Cape ; 7s. 6d.) is another
James Curtis novel of the boxing world. A slum
boy, Tommy Mutch, is taken up and exploited by
an unscrupulous manager, Sammy Sanders, and his
even more unsavory partner, Arthur.
It is a convincing picture of the seamy side of
sport—“fixed” fights, referees who wink at fouls,
audiences that expect to see “six murders committed
for their eighteenpence.” Tommy fights in good faith,
only to discover that his manager had fixed his fights
beforehand; he earns big money, but under his con-
tract it all goes to Sammy; his refusal to “take a
dive” leads to his boycott. He has some happy
moments, as when he jumps on Arthur, but they do
him no good.
It is the essence of the tragedy that Tommy’s
innate decency is his greatest handicap. Beyond this
there is the implicit statement that event and circum-
stance, however brutal, cannot quite extinguish the
grace and sweetness of youth.
The book is written vividly; it has the swift,
direct technique of the cinema, and the narra-
tive is told in the idiom of its subject. The
characters are revealed in action- —and they live.
There is Tommy’s father, who takes refuge
in pigeon fancying; his brother Ernie, the pawn-
broker’s clerk ; Elsie, who gets into trouble; Dot, the
girl who exploits Tommy as ruthlessly on the
emotional side as Sammy does on the professional;
Harry, the old trainer, as decent and as fatally inno-
cent as Tommy; and the teeming—and helpless—life
of the slum streets.
It is a tough book, an unvarnished record of
ugly living, but it is also very human and moving.
New Mexico is the setting of Little Valley, by
Raymond Otis (Cresset Press; 7s. 6d.). The writer
has two major virtues: honesty of artistic intention
and a thorough knowledge of his country.
The people live in a small irrigated valley, sepa-
rated —the author points out —from hundreds of simi-
lar little valleys by lofty, barren mountains. They
are hard-working and oppressed by poverty, the family
acres having been divided, generation by generation,
into smaller and yet smaller allotments.
Juliano is the central character, married to Rosa,
who should have been a courtesan, not a young
family woman. He can’t wrench himself free of his
love for her, and what that, combined with the years
of incessant struggle with the soil, doesn’t do to
mangle his life is done by the villainies of mayordomo
Ben Ortiz, Rosa’s lover. It begins and ends with a
fight between the men, and in the last fight both are
killed.
The book’s weakness is a general crudity. While
the motives of the people are always credible, their
behavior is sometimes a little unnatural, and the talc
jerks itself through the years, leaving something un-
told at each break and presenting the reader with
unexplained developments at each beginning. The
book’s virtue is that both the story as a whole and
the pictures of life in the New Mexican valleys carry
conviction.
After a couple of chapters devoted to the narra-
tor’s recollections of his infancy, Peter Waring, by
Forrest Reid (Faber; Angus and Robertson ; 7s. 6d.),
develops into a very readable book. It is a story of
boyhood and youth in the country below the Mourne
Mountains and Belfast.
Peter is the son of a school-teacher, a decayed,
shabby-genteel man, thwarted and harsh. The boy gets
friendship and tacit consolation from Mrs. Carrol, a
gentlewoman living near by, and youthful companion-
ship from her niece and nephew, Gerald and Kathe-
erine Dale.
There are the usual experiments in friendship,
escapades and daydreaming; also moments of exal-
tation and the dark, despairing of boyhood that turns
out to be a symptom of awakening interest in the
girls, and is followed by a very idealistic love affair.
During his early teens Peter spends a year in
Belfast with small-shopkeeper relations in a semi-
slum area. Parts of this Belfast interlude contrast
markedly with the rest of the book. They are real;
the style of the story as a whole is delicately romantic.
There is no grand climax ; we are just left with
a picture of Peter accepting comfort from his friend
Mrs. Carrol, who has divined that his love affair has
gone badly. . .
The book is a much altered rewrite of one Reia
published 25 years ago. Comparison is impossible,
but the present version justifies itself.
Walter Leroy, going from New York to Paris
with 10,000 dollars between the. uncut leaves of a
detective novel —for the Communist.party routed by
the Royalists in France meets three people who
revolutionise his life —Mr. Peter Penkethman, an
English police commissioner of Dutch extraction, who
turns out to be Leroy’s father ; Cassandra Mathers, an
art student with whom he falls in love ; M. de la
Penthteve, the new Grand Chamberlain of France,
who recognises in the young man the French king’s
double
Anyone who has read The Prisoner of Zenda will
guess at once what happens. The king is assassinated,
the story is denied, and Walter disappears.
In short, Ford Madox Ford, in his new novel,
Vive le Roy (Allen and Unwin ; 7s. 6d.), seems to
have opened a drawer in the dark and taken the first
plot that .offered. There is notable historic precedent
for this sort of thing, and, while Ford Madox Ford
is not Shakspeare, his book is a brilliant exercise in
the chosen technique.
It is impossible to read it quickly, so subtly is
it wound and unwound. He creates a curious state
of suspense which has nothing to do with the denoue-
ment of the story. He never makes the mistake of
explaining. You find your own way through the
maze of disguises, intrigues and counter-intrigues. It
is like a peanut hunt: you don’t want the peanut, the
chase is the thing. Ingenuity—yours and the author’s
—is the lure. . *
The setting is an imagined post-revolutionary’
Paris, but the political element is small.
A fishing and farming community on a treeless
headland jutting out from the coast of Wales is the
setting of The Wooden Spoon, by Wyn Griffith (Dent;
7s. 6d.).
The sea is niggardly and the farming is of the
scratch-as-scratch-can variety. It is a tale of poverty,
yet not of the unrelieved kind. The writer has in
view the courage and kindliness of the people as well
as the hardness of their lot, and there are compen-
sating snatches of beauty in their lives.
The book purports to be written by a man who
left the district in his youth, lived a rough and widely-
travelled life, and now returns in his old age, drawn
back by some quality in the place that he cannot
define. The story moves back and forward in time,
a recollection fitted beside a present happening, the
whole making up a mosaic picture.
The old man finds himself involved in a plot
during a storm to lure a ship on to the rocks so that
some of the inhabitants can profit from the salvage.
In a roundabout way this leads to his memory of a
great event in his life when his father, to compensate
him for having to leave school and go to work to
help keep the family, presented him with a claspknife.
Again, he receives a visit from a local widow
who has matrimonial designs on him, and they chat
—very interestingly to the reader-—at the fireside.
He remembers more boyhood scenes.
Detail by detail a very complete and convincing
image of life on the headland is built up. The boom
of the sea can be heard, the earth felt and the life
in the little dirt-floored cottages becomes familiar.
There are pages in which the old man lapses into loose
philosophising, but these form only a small proportion
of the whole —joints in the mosaic—and the rest
couldn’t be done better.
AMERICAN BOOKS FOR AUSTRALIA.
Two things look like bringing about changes in
publishing practices that will give Australian readers
a wider choice of American literature and Australian
writers easier access to American markets.
One is that the Australian reading public has its own
taste in books; the success or failure of a book over-
seas does not necessarily forecast its fate here. For
example, Australia took as many copies of Henry
Ford’s book as were sold in the U.S.A.
The other is that the success of Australian books
reprinted in America has awakened American pub-
lishers to the possibilities here.
Rate of exchange and other high costs make the
importation of American books practically prohibi-
tive. The alternative is the reprinting of American
books here with a reciprocal trade agreement regard-
ing Australian books in America —along the lines of
the practice at present existing between American and
London publishers.
There are difficulties in the way, but they don’t
look unbeatable.
"IT IS ME" OR "IT IS I"?
“There was a time when no one was more
ashamed to say ‘You was there’ than most of now-
are to say ‘lt’s me’; ‘you was’ is dead; ‘it’s me’ has
a long life before it yet; it too will die,” says Fowler’s
Dictionary of Modern English Usage in a section deal-
ing with certain idioms styled “Sturdy Indefensibles.”
But “It is me” seems almost impregnably en-
trenched—and a fairly strong case can be made out
for it.
“It is me,” of course, breaks the law of grammar
which tells us that the verb “to be” takes the same
case after it as before it. That being so, “it,” being
nominative, requires a nominative pronoun after “is,”
and in this instance it has the objective “me.” Gram-
matically, therefore, the sentence is wrong, and should
be “It is I.” .., „ „
But “I” is more pronouncedly egoistic than me,
and to many people the positive *‘l” at the end of
the sentence is apt to be offensive. The French, who
are especially fastidious in matters of convention, say
“C’est moi” (“It is me”), not “C’est je” (“It is I”).
In English, also, custom and good taste prescribe the
oblique case for the first personal pronoun singular
in the sentence; hence the use of the more self-effac-
ing form, “It is me.” Only when the “I” is intended
in a more solemn or emphatic sense, say some authori-
ties, should “It is I” be used.
OLOGIST.
AUSTRALIAN WRITERS.
The second M. Barnard Eldershaw article op
Australian writers appears on page 50 of this week’s
Bulletin. This one is on Christina Stead, one of the
most singular of Australian authors who have made
a reputation overseas. Subsequently M. Barnard
Eldershaw will write on Leonard Mann, F. D. Davison
and others.
The Human Comedy : James Harvey Robinson
(Bodley Head ; 10s. 6d.). An American history pro-
fessor writing wittily, impartially and sincerely. This
age, he thinks, is as badly obsessed with industry as
was the seventeenth century with religion. He sees
need for a new science of economics aimed at the
proper use of abundance.
/ Chose Teaching: Ronald Gumer (Dent; 10s.
6d.). Autobiography of an English headmaster. Read-
able so long as it is autobiographical, but two-thirds
of it is minute discussion of controversies regarding
educational control.
/ View the World (Robert Hale; 10s. 6d.)
embalms Aimee Semple Macpherson’s impressions of
Tokio, Yokohama, Hong Kong, Singapore, Bombay,
Calcutta, Suez, Cairo and Jerusalem. Aimee has a
gift of vivid expression, but her lamentations over
the heathen seem intended more for Radio Temple
consumption than for the average reader.
Fifty Tips for Investors: W. D. G. Hartley
(Angus and Robertson ; 3s. 6d.). Contains at least one
piece of advice this paper can’t quarrel with—to read
The Bulletin financial pages and the “ ‘Wild Cat’
Monthly.” The rest of the treatise is equally sound
and safe, and some of the tips, such as “Don’t Be
Right Too Soon,” “Buy on Gloom —Sell on Glory”
and “A Doubtful Egg Is Nearly Always a Bad Egg,”
should be pasted under every hat in Pitt-street.
Death of an Eloquent Man: Charlotte Murray
Russell (Master Thriller Library; 7s. 6d.). While the
police are hot on false trails Jane solves the mystery
of two murders, a suicide, a kidnapping and the iden-
tity of the killer.
Spies in Action: Michael Annesley (Harrap ; 7s.
6d.). Hungary. Plot to corner oil supplies ; dope run-
ning ; Englishwoman abducted; flying bullets ; gipsy
girl offering life for love ; British secret service to
the rescue. Moves briskly.
Who Killed Oliver Cromwell ?: Leonard R.
Gribble (Harrap ; 7s. 6d.). An Anthony Slade yarn.
Cromwell is a character at a fancy-dress ball. Charles
I. and Henrietta Maria are among the suspects, but
a Spanish gun-running plot is finally unearthed.
The Three Hunting Horns: Mary Pitt (Ivor
Nicholson and Watson ; 7s. 6d.). French country set-
ting. Deaths among members of one family after
using boar-hunting horns.
Stronghold: James L. Scott (Robert Hale; 7s.
6d.). Begins with a couple of motorists being greeted
with a hail of bullets when they stop to buy petrol
at a Highland bowser and ends with wedding bells
after the lovers have taken part in the Scotch version
of a gangster war. Plenty of action.
I Look Forth: Henry Boote (The “Worker”
Trustees). Poems. In strident measure he hails his
fellow-man, pours scorn upon him for weak submis-
sion to his woes and urges him forward to the dawn
of better things. There is implied the belief that man
is master of his fate, which, coming from one who is
not viewing life with the facile optimism of youth
(Boote is 70), has a significance of its own.
“Brighteyes”: How the two women who write as
M. Barnard Eldershaw achieve their perfectly seam-
less collaboration has inspired curiosity overseas as
well as here —where it ranks with “Who is Brent of
Bin Bin?” Accident has twice given me glimpses of
them at work. The first time there were two writing-
pads, two heads in close conference and then two
pens scratching simultaneously. Next time a final
draft seemed to be in progress. One held the long-
hand copy and the other worked the typewriter, with
brief intervals of mutual consultation. These snap-
shots, of course, leave much unexplained, but may
be worth noting for such inferences as may be drawn
from them.
“Noises Off”: Leslie Clarke Rees, whose “Sub-
editor’s Room” was included in Best Australian One-
act Plays, is a Westralian who edited the “Black
Swan” for three years at Perth Uni. Afterwards came
a spell of press work in London, including two years
as dramatic critic on the “Era.” Returning to Aus-
tralia he did critical work for dailies and an occa-
sional Red Page article. He is now play editor for
the Australian Broadcasting Commission. His wife,
Coralie Clarke Rees, another Groperlander, also has
a capable pen. A joint book on their England adven-
tures is in preparation.
“Recording Angel”: Among Australian writers
who have made a place for themselves with overseas
readers is James Francis Dwyer. He has a couple
of books to his credit—both well received—and he
is able to make the Australian scene of interest to his
American readers. A recent article in the “Blue Maga-
zine” deals with Australian city and bush experiences
and mentions the days when he was a fairly frequent
contributor to the Red Page.
“Mount of Olives” : As a listener, sitting back and
taking it in while others do the talking, lon Idriess is
in world-championship class, but I have heard him
chip in. The subject was dawn patrols in Palestine.
He remembered one across sandhills whose lee de-
clivities fell away like the side of a ship, in a fog so
thick you could just see the tail of the horse in front
dropping out of sight. They were expecting to run
into enemy outposts —and did. The quiet man was
carried away by his own tale, and before he had
finished he was on his feet, acting as well as talking.
In the line of oral description it was a gem.
“A.W.” (Lond.): P. N. Walker Taylor, making a
name for himself in England as a thriller writer, is an
Australian. Born in Sydney, he went to Shore and
graduated at the University. After a year in England
he joined the Royal Navy and there conceived the idea
for his first thriller, Murder in the Flagship, one of
the best of 1936. His next, Murder in the Game
Reserve, is, if anything, better. A third, Murder in
the Suez Canal, is due from the printers at time of
writing.


‘TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”—AIways.
FAMOUS
THE SENIOR STORE.
LOW PRICES
.
ZJt
§
km
m
%
Si
II
':3V;
fl
I
Strong Fibre, Fitted Lunch Cases
Take this on your next picnic—fitted Lunch Case in
smooth fibre, for two, four or six persons. In colors of
plain Green, Ivory-Blue, Ivory-Red or Ivory-Green,
with jars and salt and pepper shakers to match.
Prices: Two persons, 37/6; four persons, 55/-;
37'6
six persons, 75/-.
Pure Wool Rugs
Warmth is essen-
tial to your com-
fort when travel-
ling. These Pure
Wool Rugs have fringed ends,
and are available in the service-
able shades of Brown, Blue,
Dark or Light Grey. Check
designs. Size 80 x6O inches'.
Price 21/-
Ql
m
ns
m
m
f /
Iffl
Lightweight Bag far Travellers
A long-felt want fulfilled—a Utility Bag
that is just the right size to hold all the odds
and ends—rugs, coats, boots, shoes, and all
those extras required for the journey. When
not in use can be folded to occupy a very small space. Size, 20
x 23 inches. Procurable in a variety of colours. Price . . 39/6
396
Fibre Suit Cases
Travel with confidence—choose this Plain Fibre
Suit Case, fitted with two supporting straps. These
cases have a smooth leather appearance, two good
locks, capped corners and strong metal frame.
Lined. Sizes, inches 24 26
Prices . . 18/6 19/6
186
28 30
21 /- 22/6
USE
THE
D. P. S.
Ideal Travel Combination
•£ *?* m
mam
1 m
: M
a m
ii;/ \'x%s : ::;"
:■ :
m
m
m
. . >
K*p
Si r.
MM#
■
3 *BS
Tsmm
m
M
■ ::
» s £
i
I 1
WsKmVrJv^te
! I : ':
Hi
Hi
• E
; m
m
n
Fibre Motor Cases
Strong Fibre Motor Cases
with two wooden battens
around case, two good
locks, capped corners,
strong metal frame and valance. Lined.
Sizes, inches: 24 26 28 30 32
Prices .... 19/6 21/- 19/6 22/6 25/-
V
Horseshoe Hat Boxes
Keep your hats in their
original shape when travel-
ling—use a Horseshoe Hat
Box, made from strong
fibre. Colours are Black or 1 an.
1 6in., Price .. . 6/9. 1 Bin., Price
With cloth pocket—
-1 6in., Price . . 13/-. 1 Bin., Price
69
Lined.
. . 8/6
. 14/6
Leather Suit Cases
396
This is an exceptionally
strong Case. Made from
genuine cowhide, it has
a leather-covered frame,
eight capped corners, two good locks, and
is cloth lined.
Sizes, ins. .... 20 22 24 26 28
Prices 36/6 41/6 45/- 48/- 52/-
® Travel Goods —Ground Floor, Pitt Street, or First Floor, George
Street. Free Delivery City and Suburbs only.
and SONS LTD
’Phone: M 2401
Day and Night.
SYDNEY
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C, G.P.O.


£155 for Stories.
The Bulletin wants short stories for its fiction
section, and Cinesound Productions, Ltd., wants stories
suitable for the screen.
“The Bulletin” offers
First Prize £3O
Second £l5
Third . £5
Special Prize Brief Story £5
Cinesound offers for
Best Screen Story £lOO
It is possible for one story to win in both sections.
In addition to the prizes, all entries published will be
paid for at Bulletin rates.
Entries must not exceed 6500 words; 1500 words is
the limit in the Brief Story section.
Entries must be original, and hitherto unpublished.
Scenarios are NOT wanted. Cinesound will attend to
that.
Closing date is January 31, 1938. But any entry
considered to have a chance will be paid for and pub-
lished as it comes to hand. •
Entries to be addressed: —
“Short Story Competition,”
C/o “The Bulletin,”
Box 252188, G.P.0., Sydney.
Any further particulars may be had from The Bulletin.
A Story of the 1904 Cup
The CHAMELEON
BY
CON DREW
DRAWING
BY SUCH.
VOU birds don’t need to be whales on racin'
history to know what won the Melbourne Cup
in 1904. At Flemington on Cup Day that year
there was a record crowd. On the flat, where
me and Handsome Harry was making a book, the
people was packed like sardines in a tin, and the
hill and paddock was filled to overflowin’.
And, believe me, there was some sharpshooters
on the flat. There was blokes who ran blackboard
totes, monkey-sweep men, tip-sellers, under-and-over
merchants, three-board artists and Yankee-sweat men,
all combined in a frontal attack on the geese with
the golden eggs.
By the time the Cup came along me and Hand-
some had only a fiver in the bag. Things hadn’t gone
too well in the first three races and we’d lent a couple
of frogskins to a bloke called Chameleon Joe, who
was makin’ a book on the outskirts of the ring. He’d
got his first name because he was hard to see if a
well-backed horse happened to win.
“A fiver ain’t much to make a book on,” I says
to Handsome. “What’ll we do?”
“Go for the gloves, of course,” says Handsome.
“If we can’t show a profit out of this crowd we ought
to take on work.”
“That’s all right,” says I, “but if we can’t pay
out the mob will dump us in the river.”
“They’d need to bring their runnin’ shoes,” says
Handsome. “We’ll lay everythin’ in the race except
Humphrey Oxenham’s mare Acrasia, and let her run
for us.”
“What about Lord Cardigan?”
“He’s humpin’ nine stone eight, and it’s a bit too
much for him. We’d have a better chance with
Acrasia.”
“All right,” says I. “Dig into it.”
The betting was wide, but Handsome was an
artist in gettin’ money in.
“Come on!” he yelled. “I’ll bet on the big two-
miler. Four to one the field.”
No one played leapfrog to bet with him, and
Handsome ran up the scale a bit. “Well, five to one
the field!” he bellowed. “It’s the best price on the
ground. Five to one Waikiki.”
That brought them, for Waikiki was a pretty
warm favorite, and soon Handsome was writin’ tickets
so fast I could hardly stick the wagers down in the
book.
When Waikiki was taking out thirty quid I nudged
Handsome’s arm. “That’s enough of the favorite
for a bit,” I said.
“Rats!” snapped Handsome. “He’s got the job
in front of him, hasn’t he?”
He went on layin’ Waikiki until he was takin’
out fifty quid, and then he eased up. “That’s all I
want of the favorite just now,” he said to the crowd.
The favo r i t e’s
backers moved off, grumbling
as they always do, and Handsome
dug into the other horses. “Six to one
Marmont,” he yelled, “sevens Tartan, eights
Lord Cardigan, tens Blinker and Canteen!”
Bets came in fairly well, and Handsome laughed.
“We’ll be layin’ the odds to another tenner agen the
favorite if this keeps up,” he says.
“We will not,” I come back. “We’re still a long
way behind it. Dig into it.”
Handsome got to business agen, and after twenty
minutes’ work we had a fairly decent book. We
were only goin’ up for a tenner, but it was a fiver
more than we had.
“I think we’ll let it go at that,” says Handsome,
“and give ourselves a chance.”
“We’re givin’ ourselves a chance by not layin’
Acrasia,” says I. “Graft on some of them outsiders.”
“All right,” says Handsome with a grin. “A man
ought to be sandbagged for doin’ it though.”
He was a hard worker when he liked, and by the
time the horses were out on the track we were only
three quid short.
“How about gettin’ three quid out of Acrasia,”
I says to Handsome, “and makin’ everythin’ water-
tight?”
“Not me,” says Handsome.
“Well, get two quid out of her,” I says. “I think
I can borrer a frogskin if the worst comes to the
worst.”
“Not on your life,” says Handsome. “I’d sooner
put two quid on her.”
A bloke we knew named Nasty Joe was passing,
and Handsome Joe beckoned him over. “What’s the
best you heard quoted about Acrasia?” he asks him.
“Twelves,” says Nasty. “But there ain’t too much
of it. There’s been a lot of money come for Acrasia.”
“Put that on her,” says Handsome, handin’ Nasty
two quid. “If she wins collect and keep a couple for
yourself.”
“Now we’re further in the soup,” says I as Nasty
ambled off. “If the favorite wins we’re gone to the
pack.”
“And if Acrasia wins we’ll be singin’ ragtime,”
says Handsome. “Anyway, it’s too late —they’ll be
off in a jiffy.”
| STOOD up on the box with Handsome to look at
the start. Far up the course to the right the horses
were jockeying for positions at the post. They drew
into line for a bit and we thought they were ready to
go, but Canteen turned away from the barrier. After
a bit the starter got them lined up once more, the
tape shot up and they came thunderin’ down the
course towards us.
Czarovitch was leadin’ as they passed the stand,
and led the field at a lively bat to the first turn.
“They’re makin’ the pace a cracker,” I said to
Handsome. “How will that suit Acrasia?”
“It’ll suit her down to the ground,” says he.
“There she is racin’ in the middle of the field.”
We lost sight of them for a bit after they’d passed
the bridge, owin’ to the flat booth blockin’ our view.
When we sighted them agen Ruenalf 11. had charge of
affairs, Tartan, Czarovitch, Lord Fitzroy and Cake-
walk were next in a
bunch, with Waikiki
and Marmont close
handy. Swift as a flight
of swallers they raced
along the back of the
course, and passed the
mile a confused blur of
colors on a streak of
green.
At the abattoirs
Ruenalf 11. was still in
front, but Ossian, Silver
King and Blinker were
on his wheel. Acrasia
and Lord Cardigan had
improved their posi-
tions a little, but they
were still a good way
back.
I was all for get-
tin’ some money out of
Acrasia if we could
tempt the mob in, but
Handsome wouldn’t
hear of it.
“She’ll eat the rest
of them when it comes
to a showdown,” he
said. “Don’t you
worry.”
They took in the
bit to the home turn in
lively time and, round-
ing the bend, swept
into the straight.
Ossian was leading now, and looked like stayin’
there too.
“By cripes, they’re nearly home! ” I says to
Handsome. “If Acrasia’s goin’ to be in it she’d better
get goin’ lively.” But Handsome wasn’t listening.
With his eyes glued on the field, he was lost to
everythin’ but the horses.
All at once he let out a deafenin’ yell. “Here’s
Acrasia and Lord Cardigan cornin’ now!” he bel-
lowed. “Look at them!”
They were cornin’, too. All my life I’ve been
mixed up with racin’, but I never saw two horses
step on the gas more lively. Half-way up the straight
they had ripped through the field and were just behind
the leaders. At the distance they were racin’ neck
and neck in front. It was a great go as they tor-
nadoed for nosebags and home, but nearin’ the finish
Lord Cardigan’s big load told on him and Acrasia
slid past the judge three-quarters of a length in front.
Handsome unloosed a yell that nearly shook me
off the box.
“What did I tell you?” he yelled. “A skinner the
lot—to say nothin’ of the twenty-four quid we won
on Acrasia. Give us your fist! We’ll have goldfish
for tea all right.”
We waited until we saw the weight-flag hoisted,
and then we got down off the box and started puttin’
the gear away.
After a bit the bloke who’d done the commission
on Acrasia for us dashed up. He looked terrible
excited, and his eyes stuck out like buttons on the
waistcoat of a Cabinet Minister.
“Hello, Nasty,” said Handsome. “What’s up
with you?”
“I’ve brought you terrible news,” says Nasty.
“The bloke I backed Acrasia with has done a duck.”
“Done a duck ?” gasps Handsome. “Who did
you bet with?”
“A bloke called Chameleon Joe,” says Nasty.
“They say he got the name of Chameleon be-
cause” —
But the look on Handsome’s face would have
warned a blind imbecile, and Nasty took a dive into
the crowd.


A True-to-life Sketch
The WEDDING
BY MARGARET TRIST
Myrtle’s throat.
Now calm yourself,
darling; think of
Jim.”
“Yes, think of
Jim,” urged Jim’s
mother from the
doorway.
“You must be
brave,” murmured
Miss Johnson,
smoothing Myrtle’s
hair and releasing
her clasp of her
mother. “Now
here’s your lovely
dress all wait-
ing”-
THE night before the wedding there was an
atmosphere of sadness about the place. The
sadness seemed to have got into the air, so that
when one of the cows mooed it was a low,
plaintive sound drifting slowly away into the empty
darkness. It all seemed worse when to-morrow’s
bridegroom untethered his horse and rode away.
Thud, thud, thud! his horse’s hooves went over the
black, hard ground, and Myrtle stood on the verandah
and listened till the faintest echoes died away, then
wept dismally. Jim was a good chap and she thought
the world of him, but you never knew with this
marriage business. It was a big step for a girl to
take, leaving the bosom of her family.
The wedding was to be at home. The clergyman
was to come out from town, and the ceremony was to
be held in the big dining-room, where the organ was.
The table had already been taken out and put end-to-
end with the other long tables on the side verandah
in preparation for the breakfast. It made the house
seem unfamiliar, and Myrtle’s tears flowed freely as
she wandered from room to room, peering in on the
younger members of the family, already in bed, and
stopping to handle some long-familiar ornament or
picture. She finally ended in the kitchen, where her
two grown-up brothers were cleaning their boots—
one was to be best man and the other groomsman—
and her mother was waiting patiently by the ham to
see it was lifted from the water at the exact moment
it was cooked. Her father, impervious to weddings
or any other distractions, pored over a pamphlet of
windmill parts. Myrtle laid her head on the table and
sobbed.
Her father looked up in amazement. “What’s
the matter with the girl? It’s not a funeral.”
“He hasn’t dumped you, has he?” asked Joe in
alarm.
“Leave the girl alone. It’s only fit and proper to
cry the night before her wedding.” Mrs. Blake prodded
the ham viciously. “All good girls do.”
“Holy smoke! What for?” inquired Bert.
“Oh, men don’t understand,” said his mother.
So Myrtle cried on, and Mrs. Blake began won-
dering what she would do without her eldest daughter
till finally, overcome, she took relief in tears ; and
the lady-help-governess-dressmaker-nursemaid, having
put the final touches to the bridal gown, came in and
wept too, so that the two boys got up and tiptoed
out and Mr. Blake wondered why women couldn’t
be put to some practical use in drought-time.
In the middle of it all the pastrycook arrived
from town with the puffs that were to be filled with
cream next morning, and Myrtle laughed hysterically
and said how funny they should arrive just then, and
Miss Johnson, the lady-help, said it was an omen
that Myrtle was to have sweet things for all the rest
of her life. After that Myrtle went to bed, and Miss
Johnson and Mrs. Blake tucked her in and held a
loudly-whispered consultation outside her door as to
whether certain knowledge should be imparted to
Myrtle.
'""PHE next day was warm and sunny. “Just the day
for a wedding,” according to Miss Johnson.
And “Happy is the bride the sun shines on,” said
Mrs. Blake, and sighed heavily.
The big white damask cloths were brought out
and spread over the tables, and Miss Johnson brought
the cutlery, while Ivy, aged fourteen, who had once
won a prize for handwriting, wrote the place-cards
and set them around. Mrs. Blake brought the large
square wedding cake with its white icing, its silver
bell, its cherubs, its slippers and its lovebirds, and
placed it in front of the bride’s seat. Then there were
cold meats and salads and three bottles of dark-red
wine.
When everything was arranged, even to the
paper serviettes standing frilled-out in the glasses,
Miss Johnson got her camera and took a snap of the
table and then rushed away to assist the bride with
her dressing. The children were helping each other
through the bathtub, and Bert and Joe had ridden
off early to aid Jim with his separating. They had
taken their clothes with them and were to dress down
there and lend Jim moral support on his way to claim
his bride. Mr. Blake, clad in his best, was pushing a
Dutch hoe over the already weedless ground around
the house, as if to ease his conscience about the terrible
waste of time the wedding was causing. Mrs. Blake
having had an inspiration, hastily gathered violets
and went round the table laying two beside each
place-card.
The clergyman arrived early because he was
bringing the bridesmaid with him, and soon after that
Jim’s relations arrived in a bunch, followed quickly
by members of the Blake tribe —aunts, uncles, cousins,
second-cousins, third-cousins, and others who claimed
remote relationship because of someone marrying
someone about fifty years ago. There was a great
deal of noise—women talked, babies wept. Mr. Blake
put away his weeder and Mrs. Blake slipped hurriedly
into her floral marocain, then tried frantically tc
shepherd her guests into the one spot. But the men
had a habit of wandering off, and young children got
themselves lost, so that their mothers had to go and
look for them. Finally, Mr. Blake took the clergy-
man off to see the new windmill and Mrs. Blake
remembered that she had omitted to do her hair.
Myrtle was still in her petticoat, and suddenly
clutched Miss Johnson and told her that she didn’t
think she’d get married after all.
“But, darling” exclaimed Miss Johnson in
alarm.
“It will be so strange,” wailed Myrtle. “Oh, I
couldn’t bear it.”
“I know how you feel,” comforted Miss Johnson,
“but you must be calm.”
Myrtle sobbed noisily, and Miss Johnson patted
her agitatedly and looked about helplessly. The
bridesmaid, who had been finishing her dressing in
the corner of the room, went for Mrs. Blake, who
came running with her hair down her back. Several
of the guests followed her, and they stood around the
door while Myrtle wept against her mother and Miss
Johnson slopped water on the floor as she tried to
pour it from a jug to a glass.
“What’s this?” demanded Mr. Blake, striding
through the doorway and leaving the clergyman
standing discreetly in the background. “I’m darned
if I’ll let any of the others get married if there’s going
to be a fuss like this. Give her a good shaking.”
“Please go away,” ordered Mrs. Blake. “Can’t
you see she’s hysterical? It’s only natural, too, that
she should be.”
“Men don’t understand these things,” fluttered
Miss Johnson, and forced some of the water down
\\j HEN Myrtle was dressed and the time came very
close to that set for the ceremony it was dis-
covered that Jim and the boys had not yet arrived ;
but just as consternation was beginning to spread
the new car that Jim had bought for the honeymoon
was spied in the distance.
The guests all went to the dining-room and took
their seats, Jim’s people on one side, Myrtle’s on the
other. There was a narrow aisle between them where
a strip of red carpet was laid leading to the position
by the organ where the wedding was to take place.
Miss Johnson was at the organ, and as the bridal party
arrived at the door the Wedding March burst out in
such a thunderous peal that the small children were
terrified and the dogs down by the sheepyards set up
a loud barking.
Myrtle, after a dramatic pause, leant on her
father’s arm, cast her eyes demurely downward and
set off slowly down the aisle. The bridesmaid was
dressed in pink, and little Betty, one of the small
Blakes, was trainbearer in blue.
‘Don’t they all look beautiful! ” whispered some-
one.
“Myrtle’s a lovely bride,” murmured someone
else.
Mrs. Blake raised her handkerchief to her eyes
and sobbed gently as the bridal party advanced. Mr.
Blake sniffed his disgust as he passed her.
“My poor boy!” said Jim’s mother, because she
had to say something and it was the first thing of
which she thought.
Everything went off splendidly. Myrtle’s re-
sponses were quite audible, though spoken tremblingly,
as became a modest bride. After the service was
over Mrs. Harvey from over the river sang “The
Voice That Breathed O’er Eden” and Miss Johnson
then obliged with “Because.”
As everyone had had the morning meal early, the
wedding breakfast was very welcome, and even Myrtle
managed to eat heartily. Then there were speeches.
Mr. Blake said that, though he had lost a daughter,
he had gained a son, and that, as he hadn’t really lost
his daughter, he now had a son and a daughter instead
of just a daughter. Then he announced that, as such
a learned person as the clergyman was present, he
wouldn’t take it on himself to say any more, at which
everyone applauded and laughed a great deal. Jim
stood up and bit his fingernails, then with a flash of
inspiration thanked everyone for the presents they had
given to him and his wife. The company soon got
tired of speeches, so they sang “For they are jolly
good fellows,” and the bride suddenly burst into tears.
Mr. Blake rose decidedly from the table and asked
in a loud voice who wanted to come up the paddock
and see his new windmill. That finished the wedding
breakfast, and the tables were left deserted, with the
dirty crockery standing upon them and the wilted
violets scattered mournfully on the crumpled white
cloths.
D EFORE Myrtle changed her frock Miss Johnson
took a snap of her and Jim underneath the grape-
vines at the side of the house, then one of Mr. and
Mrs. Blake and the bride and ’groom. Myrtle then
had one taken by herself which Miss Johnson sug-
gested should be enlarged if it turned out all right,
“because,” she added daringly, “it will be nice for
Myrtle’s children to see,” whereat those present
laughed and Myrtle and Jim looked stony, as if they
had never heard of such things as children.
Everyone went down to the far gate to see the
honeymooners away. They were to be gone a week,
and Joe and Bert were going to milk Jim’s cows for
him. It was late afternoon when they went, and they
drove away into the mellow sunshine and lengthening
shadows of the lower paddocks.
“Sunshine and shadow,” said Miss Johnson sadly.
“That is what their life will be —sunshine and shadow.”
She turned and surveyed her companions. “Let us
hope there will be more sunshine than shadow.”
“Amen,” said the clergyman, who had been won-
dering how soon he could get away and hadn’t heard
a word, but knew it was time he said something
solemn.


Of Sydney in the Early Days
JONATHAN STOKES
ESCAPES
BY RICHARD
C. BLAKE
ILLUSTRATED BY TOWNSHEND.
—JT HE dark figure among the rocks huddled
/ closer to the sand as the distant sound of
v j creaking rowlocks reached him. He glanced
nervously over his shoulder and searched the
darkness for signs of movement. He rubbed his hand
gently over his back and flinched as the ragged cloth
bit into the open wounds.
He could not afford to make a mistake. Recapture
meant death. He closed his eyes and saw again the
fate of the last two men who had been recaptured.
He could still see the serious mien of Captain Lynch
as he read the warrant for their execution, the muffled
drums, the thin ranks of red-coated soldiery that
surrounded the scaffold, two wildly-kicking bodies and
two agonised faces, the gaping, grinning crowd. He
shivered again and crouched still lower among the
rocks.
He could see the phosphorescent flash as the oars
dipped into the black water. Then a voice, rum-laden
and maudlin, was raised in song. The crouching
figure sprang to his feet and whistled shrilly. The
singer continued blearily, but the nose of the boat
swung swiftly round and headed for the shore.
A moment later its bows struck the shingles and
the fugitive, pushing it off again, sprang in. As he
landed his feet tripped on a long, tarpaulin-covered
bundle in the bottom of the boat. Stepping over it,
he scrambled past the rowers and made his way to
the stern.
“Thank God,” he whispered as he sank wearily on
to the seat beside the man at the tiller.
He heard a harsh laugh from the man beside
him. “Thank Juan Delano, you mean.”
“I do, my friend, I do.” His voice was almost a
sob. “What it means to escape from that hellhole!
Seven years of purgatory. The gallows would be
better”
Delano interrupted coldly. “Not so much of the
‘my friend,’ Stokes. I’m the master of the Mary Ann
and you might just as well learn it now as later. I’m
helping you because I’m short of men, not because
I believe what you tell me. I wouldn’t care if you
were guilty.”
“I know.” Jonathan Stokes looked back at the
straggling settlement. A dim light flickered here and
there. “I know,” ,he repeated, “but anything is better
than Sydney.” In the darkness he shook his fist at
the township.
Delano chuckled throatily. “You need never go
back, Stokes. Once we reach Maria Island you’ll
never be caught.”
“What about Hobart Town?”
“Just keep below decks. When we reach the
sealing grounds you can live in the huts ashore.”
“What about the other men?”
Delano grunted. “You need not worry, no., Most
of them escaped as you did.”
Stokes sniffed the air and glanced around him.
The stench of seal oil was almost overpowering. A
black hull loomed up out of the darkness. In a few
moments they were clambering aboard. Delano said
something in an undertone to one of the men, and
together they bent and examined the bundle in the
tarpaulin.
“I want you, Stokes,” Delano said as he stood up,
and he led the way into a small, evil-smelling cabin.
In the flickering light he stared at Stokes curi-
ously. The man was almost in rags, and his feet
showed through the worn
leather that once had been
boots.
“Better sling those things
overboard,” he said, “and get
some others from the slop chest.
That’ll be all now.”
As Stokes turned to go
there was a commotion at the
door. He stared angrily as a
young girl—she could not have been more than twenty
—struggled violently to release herself from the grip of
a huge black. He took an impetuous step forward, but
stopped suddenly as the black, at Delano’s snarled
command, released the girl and fumbled nervously
with the black tarpaulin that hung on his arm.
She stepped imperiously through the doorway.
“What—what does this mean?” she demanded, her
eyes bright with anger.
Delano’s eyes narrowed. “What does it mean,
Mistress? It means that you’re going to sea. It
means that you have been fortunate enough to be
selected by Captain Juan Delano as his —er —com-
panion.” He bowed mockingly. “For the time being,
at least.”
The girl’s big, blue eyes dilated in horror. “Are
you mad? You would be hanged. My”—her voice
was coming in gasps—“my uncle would kill you.”
Delano sneered. “It may be a long time before I
am again in Sydney—yes, a long time.”
The girl sank in a trembling heap on the floor.
Her voice was pleading. “Please, please send me back.
Please.”
Delano laughed harshly. “You. ask for the im-
possible. I should be desolated, yes.”
Jonathan Stokes, who, up to this point, had been
a silent spectator, suddenly interfered. “Look here,
Delano,” he said, “you can’t do this. You’ll have the
whole colony on our trail.”
Delano sucked his breath in through his, teeth and
glared evilly ; his face went livid with temper and his
head shook till the gold earrings rattled against his
face. “It’ll pay you to mind your own business,
Stokes,” he snarled—“that is, if you don’t want to be
handed back to the guard in the morning as an escaped
prisoner.”
The muscles in Jonathan’s face tightened. “1
can’t help that. This girl doesn’t go against her will.”
Delano grinned maliciously and he raised his
hand a little.
“Well, I’m” he started.
And then Jonathan heard the girl scream sud-
denly. There was a blinding flash at the back of his
skull, a blackness, and he was falling through bottom-
less space.
Delano kicked the prostrate body contemptu-
ously. “Put him in irons, Ebor,” he snarled.
The black grinned and, thrusting his hand through
the unconscious man’s hair, dragged him from the
cabin.
WHEN Jonathan opened his eyes the sun was
shining through the porthole. The floor rolled
beneath him and he could feel the thump of the waves
as the barque ploughed her way through the heavy seas.
He licked his parched, cracked lips and raised himself
into a sitting position. The door opened slowly and
the girl who had been the cause of the trouble peered
into the cabin. When she saw that he was conscious
she stepped in and closed the door behind her ’
“Are you badly hurt?” she queried softly.
“No. I’ll be all right in a few moments.” He
looked keenly at her. “And you?”
She flushed and then went white. “I’m quite safe
for the present.” She hesitated a second. “I —I think
it would be better if you did not attempt to help me.”
“Not help you? Why?”
“By yourself you can do nothing. It were better
to wait a favorable opportunity —that is, if you will
help me.”
He looked down at the irons. “Perhaps you
are right. I’m not of any use at the moment.
“If—if I ever get away, you will be well rewarded.
My uncle is the Judge-Advocate and” -
“Not Captain Snells?” he demanded harshly.
She was puzzled by his tone. “Yes.”
He eyed her bitterly. Captain Snells. He # could
see the gross, fat Captain in the court. One hundred
lashes. He could still see the prisoners lined up
around the triangle to which he had been tied. He
rubbed his hand across his back again and winced as
the pain shot through his tortured flesh. Captain
Snells. He laughed brutally.
“What is the matter?” she demanded. “Why do
you laugh?”
“Snells’s niece, eh? Oh, that's funny. I’ve got
myself into this mess through trying to save the niece
of the man that’s made my life a hell. If I’d have
only known. I—l’d have laughed at your struggles.
She drew back from him, horrified.
“I hope Delano makes your life a hell,” he
snarled.
“He won’t,” came a mocking voice from the
doorway. “Mistress Snells can make mine so enjoy-
able. Why should I hurt her?”
Delano gestured to the girl to go. Then he
stared down at the man on the floor. “So you made
the big mistake, eh? It is always the big mistake to
cross Juan Delano.” He paused and shifted the quid
in his mouth and spat a stream of tobacco juice.
“You’ve had your lesson. You’li know better next
time, eh?”
Jonathan nodded sullenly.
Delano stared down at him. “I’ll send the car-
penter up to knock those irons off.” He stopped in
the doorway. “I don’t like Captain Snells, either—
but don’t depend on that.”
WHEN the carpenter had knocked the gyves from
him and he had thrown the prison rags in the
corner and donned those brought to him, Jonathan
went on deck.
A black-gin, young and stilt comely, with a wide-
eyed, half-caste piccaninny clinging to her dress, was
talking to Delano. Lounging against the rail on the
other side of the deck was a motley group—a couple
of Europeans, a young tattooed Maori and an abo-
riginal. They grinned meaningly as the argument
between Delano and the gin waxed hotter. Suddenly
Delano’s clenched fist shot out and the woman crashed
to the deck.
There was a stifled cry from the doorway and
Mary Snells ran forward. “You beasts,” she cried
angrily as she knelt beside the gin. There were tears
in her eyes as she helped the colored woman to her
feet and led her below,
Delano caught sight of Jonathan and shrugged
carelessly. “The color of a woman does not make
much difference. They all talk too much.”
Jonathan controlled himself with an effort.
“What is troubling her?” he asked.
Delano chuckled. “She does not want to be put
ashore. She says the blacks will eat her.”
“The blacks don’t eat women of their own tribe.”
Delano’s reply was offhand. “She doesn’t belong
here. I bought her in Van Diemen’s Land two years
ago.”
“Why land her here, then?”
Delano looked towards the doorway through
which the two women had disappeared. He laughed
lightly. “Two women; it is—er—not convenient.”
Jonathan resisted a desire to drive his fist into the
smirking face. He changed the subject. “Aren’t we
going north?” he asked.
“We’re going to run in to Jervis Bay to stop a
leak. It’ll take us a couple of days. I couldn’t do
it in Port Jackson for obvious reasons.”
Jonathan thought over that. Although Mary
Snells was the niece of the man under whose brutal
control he had gone almost insane, he could not bring
himself to remain passive.
But it seemed as if there was nothing he could
do. He was still endeavoring to find a solution to
the problem when the Mary Ann sailed in through the
entrance of Jervis Bay. He was thankful that Mary
Snells had avoided him, for he realised that Delano
was still watching him suspiciously.
nr HE barque was anchored in a little sandy cove
1 about fifty yards from the beach. Delano had
stationed a sealer on the beach with a loaded musket.
“In case of blacks,” he told Jonathan with a twisted
,grin.
Mary landed after the men had started to work,
and walked slowly up and down the sand. Jonathan


passed her once or twice before he spoke. “Don’t
start,” he whispered. “I’ll have the jolly-boat along-
side at midnight.”
As he walked on he heard her say, “I’ll trust
you.”
Before he dropped into the jolly-boat that night
he gathered some salt pork and some ships’ biscuits.
Under the seat in the stern he stowed a musket, a
pistol, a packet of powder and some bullets. He
settled down to wait, as it still wanted an hour to
midnight. But evidently Mistress Snells had found it
impossible to wait longer, for she appeared at the
ship’s rail long before the time he had set.
He held up his arms to her and lowered her into
the boat. Without a word he sat down to the oars
and pulled away from the side.
“Where are you going?” she whispered.
“Up the harbor a little. If we land here they
could track us down. If we go a mile or so up the
bay and then turn the boat loose, they will have little
chance of catching us, for they won’t know where to
start.”
From the deck of the barque came a sudden
shout. Jonathan strained at the oars and kept silent.
Then came the flash of a musket, and a shot hit the
water alongside the boat and ricochetted into the
night.
They’re firing at the flash of the oars in the
water,” grunted Jonathan as he forced the boat ahead.
From the barque came the sound of shouted
orders.
“They’re going to lower the other boat,” Jonathan
decided. “We’ll have to land now. They won’t catch
us in the bush.”
A streak of white showed towards the shore. He
swung the boat towards it, and in a moment or so
the keel of the boat was grating on the sand. He
passed her the pistol and grabbed the rest of the
packages. Then they ran to where the tall, gaunt
gums were silhouetted against the stars.
In the shelter of the trees it was safer, although
the pace was slower. No sound came from their
pursuers, but they pushed on over the rocky hillock
and down the other side. Here they reached a flat,
low-lying stretch which evidently was covered at low
tide. Jonathan halted undecided. It would be hard
going through the swampish ground, but the tide was
coming in and would destroy their tracks before
morning.
They set out through the swamp. The water
was gradually rising, and the
sound of their squelching
feet drove the scurrying crabs
to hiding beneath the matted
rushes.
The sky in the east was
faintly tinged with pink be-
fore Jonathan called a halt.
They found a narrow valley
that ran down to the sea.
Jonathan collected a pile of
bracken and laid it down in
the shelter of an overhang-
ing rock. Soon she was
sleeping restlessly.
A LL next day they re-
■'* mained hidden in the
valley. And when it was
dark again Jonathan slept
like a log. The next morn-
ing, since he had seen no sign
of the sealers, he decided that
they should move onwards.
They realised that the sealers
could not afford to waste too
much time searching for
them, and it was possible that
they had already given up.
They had travelled for
about an hour when they
came upon a track through
the bush. It was easier going
than forcing their way through
the tangle of vine and
creeper, and they decided to
travel, for the time being at
least, along the track. Cer-
tainly they made faster time,
for the track, winding along
the edge of the bay, avoided
all the rocky hillocks.
All the morning they
marched steadily. Suddenly
the girl stopped and raised
her hand. “What’s that?” she
whispered.
From down the track
came the sound of voices.
Jonathan caught her around
the waist and swung her
upwards. She caught a
branch of the tree and clam-
bered up. Jonathan, spring-
ing from the ground, pulled
himself up beside her.
The voices grew louder.
Then around the bend in the
track came a small party.
Jonathan felt the sudden
clutch of the girl’s hand on
his arm, for the men were
not sealers. The leader of the group was an officer.
His scarlet coat stood out against the dull green of
the bush. Following him came two civilians and a
convict.
A survey party. Jonathan waited for the girl to
call, but the party passed..
“Why didn’t you call them?” he asked bluntly.
“You would have been retaken.”
“That is inevitable now,” he said. “I knew that
when we left the Mary Ann.”
“I —I will not save my life at the expense of
yours. Oh, don’t”
He raised his voice in a loud halloo.
The survey party stopped short and looked back.
The two civilians raised their muskets uncertainly.
Jonathan dropped out of the shelter of the tree and
held out his arms for the girl. Here they waited
while the survey party came back to them. The
Ensign was obviously startled.
“Mistress Snells,” he gasped. “What do you do
here?”
It was a different Mary Snells now. She was
quite composed. Briefly she told him of what had
occurred.
“Has the Mary Ann left?” he demanded savagely
when she had finished.
“How should we know?” she queried.
“And this sailor?” He motioned towards
Jonathan.
“He” began the girl.
“Is not a sailor,” interrupted Jonathan.
The Ensign stared at him. “Stokes, to be sure.
I didn’t recognise you. Escaped, eh? Well, you
know the law. I’ll have to place you under arrest.”
The girl sprang up protectively. “I won’t have it.
If it hadn’t been for me he would not have been
here. I —l won’t have it,” she insisted.
The Ensign took one of the civilians to one side
and talked earnestly. Evidently the civilian did not
agree, but the officer made up his mind. “Give me
your word that you will return to Sydney and will
make no attempt to escape and the arrest will be
purely nominal until we reach the settlement.”
U/HEN they reached Port Jackson Jonathan was
* marched up George-street, across the wooden
bridge that spanned the Tank Stream to the log
prison house. He had noticed as they came up the
harbor that a pitch-covered body swung in chains
on Pinchgut, and had wondered grimly whether his,
too, would swing beside it before the week was out.
The nose of the boat swung swiftly round and headed for the shore.
He remained in the prison house for several days
before the gaoler came for him. He was led into a
small room just outside the prison walls. He took
a seat in front of the wide table and waited. The
gaoler stood watchfully at the doorway. The door
at the other side of the room opened suddenly. Jona-
than rose to his feet with a startled exclamation as
the Governor of the settlement entered the room.
So this was not to be his trial.
“Sit down, Stokes,” the Governor said. He
referred to some papers. “By the way, were you not
one of his Majesty’s officers?”
“Yes, your Excellency. The” He stopped
short.
The Governor snorted and stared at him from
under his shaggy brows. “Well, man, well? Go on.”
“The Royal Hussars.”
“You were transported for duelling, weren’t
you?”
“Yes, sir.”
“Hum! A quarrelsome man, eh? Why did
you strike Captain Snells?”
“He accused me of lying, sir. My term had
expired and I told him so. The papers of the men
transported in the First Fleet have never been sent
out, and there are many men still prisoners who are
entitled to their freedom. He told me that I lied
and I struck him.”
The Governor drew out a long document from
'an envelope. “Stokes,” he said, “you are indeed
fortunate. The papers that you refer to came out
in the Britannia two days ago, and I have since found
that your time had really expired. And if your
time had expired how can you be tried for escaping
from custody when you could not legally be kept in
that custody?”
Jonathan’s head came up with a jerk.
“Apart from one or two little formalities you’re
free, of course.”
Jonathan stood up quickly.
The Governor waved him down. “Not so fast.
Not so fast. Er —before you go, I should like to
compliment you on your really gallant action in
assisting Mistress Snells.”
Jonathan again stood up. “Thank you, your
Excellency.”
“By the way, what do you intend to do? Will
you return to England or will you settle here?”
Jonathan was impatient to be away. “I don’t
know yet. I haven’t made up my mind.” He smiled
unsteadily. “My future appeared to be so short
that it was not worth thinking about.”
The Governor appeared
to be enjoying some secret
joke. “Yes, I suppose so.
Nevertheless, I should see my
secretary on my way out if
I were you. If you decide to
settle you will require a
grant of land. I think that
under the circumstances I
shall be able to find some-
thing to suit you. Good-bye
and” —he held out his hand
and smiled again “good
luck.”
He opened the door into
the secretary’s room and
ushered him through. Jona-
than stopped suddenly.
“I have been waiting to
thank you, sir,” said Mistress
Snells.
He mumbled some
thanks.
“Aren’t you pleased?”
she asked softly.
“I am overwhelmed.”
They were silent for a
moment.
“I—l thought I’d just
say good-bye to you before
I returned to England. My
uncle leaves to-morrow.”
“To —to England,” he
mumbled. “Must you go?”
“J —I think so. What
is there here for me to
do?”
He agreed. No ; there
wasn’t anything for her to
remain for.
She continued casually.
“If my fiance was here I
would remain.”
“Of course,” he ad-
mitted. “Where is he?”
Her face flamed scarlet.
“I haven’t” She burst
into tears. “Oh, Jonathan,
are you going to make me
propose?”
He stared for a moment
and then his eyes lit up. In
a flash his arms were around
her and his lips were seeking
hers.
The door behind them
opened softly and the voice
of the Governor reached
them. “Excuse me, Stokes,
but will you be wanting that
grant?”


m
i
ill
11
A
\>
For Men -
new smartness,
greater Comfort in
SHIRTS
SHIRTS FOR MEN
TRICOLIME
RECD.
Produced in England ... A Wemco Fabric
BRISBANE: Walter C. Williams, Ryan House, Charlotte Street.
MELBOURNE: K. Mather, Pawson House, Flinders Lane.
PERTH: Marshall Flower, 757 a Hay Street.
SYDNEY: Keogh & Co., Grace Building, York Street.
Tricoline looks like silk and
feels like silk . . . but it wears
like whipcord.
That’s why any man will revel
in the economical comfort of a
Tricoline shirt.
Leading Mercers and Men’s
Outfitters will show you
Tricoline shirts in quiet or
bold patterns . . . just as your
taste inclines.
The colours are guaranteed
fast and every Tricoline shirt
is Becken shrunk.
Ask your Mercer what that
means . . . and share his ad-
miration for Tricoline.
XMAS FIJI EXCURSION
One Week in Fiji.
R.M.S. "Niagara”
leaves Sydney 23rd Dec.,
arrives Suva 31 st Dec.
R.M.M.V. "Aorangi”
leaves Suva 7th Jan.,
arrives Sydney 15 th Jan.
First Class Return Excursion Fare £33 (from Sydney)
EXCURSIONS TO HONOLULU
a delightful 1\ weeks’ trip: 19 days in Hawaii, or longer
if desired, by “NIAGARA” and “AORANGI,
sailing every four weeks from Sydney.
Return Fares:—
pj rs £
Per “NIAGARA” both ways £79/10/-
Per “AORANGI” „ „ £Bl/10/-
Per “NIAGARA” one way and) -eon/in/
“AORANGI” one way j iSO/ IU/ '
Cabin Class.
£57/10/-
£57/10/-
£57/10/-
Apply:—
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., LTD.
247 George Street,
Sydney
(inc. in N.Z.)
or
59 William Street,
Melbourne
ROUNDAB OUT
Tiv.
Enter, Time, marching backwards along Castle-
reagh-street with a stunned look, as if he had encoun-
tered Mr. Rubinstein and been mistaken for a piano.
The Mayfair and the Embassy give him a fright-
ful jolt. Too late he realises that if he hadn’t been
so obsessed with marching on, instead of, as to-night,
going backwards now and then, one of these places
would still be the old Tivoli and the other Fullers.
His lumbago gets in some dirty work as he sees
now that hereabouts could have been his destination,
if he hadn’t been in such a rush to have these addresses
hollowed out, given new insides, fitted with plush
seats, decorated with magnificent chandeliers, manned
with elegant dismounted postilions without and girled
within with alluring bits of what-oh in page uniforms
and brass buttons—in a word, converted into modern
Picture Palaces: carpeted, air-conditioned and set
about with luxurious lounges and superb spittoons
on stalks.
As if he had encountered
Mr. Rubinstein.
Only a crooner
getting his goitre round
“Isn’t it rom-an-tic?”
could convey the ex-
pression of apprehen-
sion and self-torture
that now contorts the
.aged one’s visage. No
mistake about it being
still 1937 hereabouts;
a deuce of a long way
back to go yet.
It would be too
harrowing altogether to
follow his march back-
wards all the way along
Castlereagh-street, with what used to be the old Opera
House —rechristened Tivoli—as his objective.
But now the going’s downhill; not far to go!
And here, sure enough, it is!
Frank Neil’s STUPENDOUS Stage Show. With
30 INTERNATIONAL VARIETY CELEBRITIES.
Having followed the old gentleman on his retro-
gression thus far, we too nod to the house manager
and pass on to seats in the stalls. Still a trifle doubt-
ful, though the feel of the seats helps to reassure him,
old Time looks apprehensively about him. The cur-
tain passes muster —rich and heavy, but still not
anachronistic —but there is a spruceness of blue paint
and gilt about the frontages of dress-circle, gallery
and boxes that looks suspiciously like a concession
to modernity.
Then, up there on the ceiling he spots the Cupids,
linked with festoons of roses. 1937? Well, we’ll
soon see about that!
Even the audience belies it. Not only by its
numbers—though they’ll have to be putting the
House-Full sign out directly: the House-Full sign, at
a vaudeville show, in Sydney! Our venerable friend
hasn’t been crabwalking backwards along Castlereagh-
street to have us still in 1937.
And, no; not only the numbers. We have seen
this audience itself before —and that wasn’t yesterday,
either. It is—if it will pardon us who blend perfectly
into it—not exactly elegant. At any rate, it’s not as
done at the Prince Edward and suchlike posh places
—we beg their pardon, palaces—when they have a
STUPENDOUS show on
there. Even that gent,
who’s just come into the
stalls in the only dinner
jacket present is 1890 if
he’s a day—and his suit
with him.
You see where we are
arrived at? Well, not quite that far; but certainly
not 1937.
And, bang! there goes the orchestra! Silently
they have stolen into their pit from the cavern under
the stage, without ostentation —no emerging like white-
tie castaways on the back of a whale (“or it
might have been a porpoise”), d la State Theatre posh
and plush, about them. No ; dressed in white jackets
as worn where we buy our steaka da oyst, they are
Cupids.
there, rasping, blowing and tum-tum-tumming away,
apropos of nothing whatever.
Up, now, goes the curtain —sonorously seems as
good a word as any for describing this event. And
there they are, a whole string of them. Dressed in
red verandah hats and red gloves—oh, yes, and stock-
ings. Dancing with great industry, of course. Would
they, or wouldn’t they, be better without, say, the
gloves?
Hullo, they’ve gone!
And what’s this that’s bobbed up? Well, may
we go hopping to China—no, no, not China ; not
just now. In this war we want to partake of our iron
rations among bishops and professors.
Anyway, that’s who it is, all right!
MO!
Thrithk uth pink, it tith! Mo himthelf. Thplut-
terin’ in fine old thtile. Would you bel -ieve it?
Lady in Audience (loudly): Gawd, ain’t he
got
No ; we won’t repeat it; but certainly he hasn’t
got any thinner.
And now he’s walked off!
And what have we!
Hearing a nightingale for
the first time.
We have the tap-
dancer. Cullud. And
can he dance? We’ll
say he can dance! Oh,
boy, look at him now
with the gink in the
light-loft playin’ the
razzle-dazzle on
him
Time (severely):
Here, no Americanisms,
please! Remember this
is not 1937. This
is anything back to
1897. Australians have
therefore not yet
adopted the language.
And now we’ve
lost the tap-dancer.
And what is this ?
Believe it or not, this is a young man with rusty
hair and a gold tooth on a one-wheeled bike riding
frantically round and round the stage inside the
twirling loop of a lassoo. And that’s nothing to
what he’s going to do. He’s going to ride backwards,
sidewards ; he’s going to stop and have a sit-down
strike on it, stand on his head on it, balance a broom
on his nose on it, and finally ride out on it.
Did you hear that noise?
Don’t be upset. It’s applause.
And now a fellow with most
of his fingers in his mouth, whist-
ling. Imitation of a canary,
thrush, nightingale. Loud ap-
plause, especially from English-
men hearing a nightingale for the
first time. By gad, sir, that fellow
was wonderful! Think what he’d
be able to do if he took his hands
out of his mouth.
Drop-curtain here. Oblong
flowerbeds and ditto lawns, reced-
ing towards manor, out of sight
in distance : pink wistaria climb-
ing over pergolas.
More Mo.
“Isn’t it rom-an-
tic?”
And now behold this pair! Lady ; tall, blonde,
tony ; blue evening frock ; violin. Gent. ; trousers
failing to bridge gap to vest; expanse of shirt; braces ;
chair; violin. Would you say he was fat? Would
you say he was perspiring?
Wallop! There he’s gone and hit that sweet lady
on
Anyway, it smashed his violin. And there he
goes off, and here he comes on ; avec ’cello. Sweat-
ing like a bullock. (“Or it might have been a por-
poise. )
A young man with rusty hair
and a gold tooth.
Anyway, applause.
More Mo.
Then the big spec-
tacular scene: The
Sinking of the Titanic!
And do they rock it
into her? Iceberg.
Quiver from stem to
stern. Explosions! She’s
sinking! She’s down
now, and so is the
curtain.
Time for a what-
ever brand advertises
in these pages.
Back to the stalls
again.
And now if this
isn’t Mo got up as a
cabbage! To carry on
a not-altogether vege-
tar i a n conversation
with Miss Sadie Gale,
done up as a rose.
Not altogether a horti-
cultural conversation, either. Shall we say hothouse,
perhaps?
And now Time, beside us, gets a sudden attack
of the fidgets. The lady from Harlem before us —
this embodiment of femininity in sepia tones ; this is
Nina Mae McKinney ; she who played opposite Paul
Robeson in “Sanders of the River.”
You will know her, of course. That beautiful
tiny face ; brushed-back friz of inky hair ; eyes —
well, you’ve seen them: what’s the use of talking
about eyes? What’s that? Your girl’s got better?
Well, trot her out and let us inspect the premises.
Our money in advance on Nina Mae.
It is over this young lady of Harlem that Time
has got the fidgets. He feels—deep down in his heart
he feels it—that this is 1937, after all; that our reason
for following him back over his tracks was not to
savor a show our grandfathers before us applauded,
but really in order to come right up to date, and be
able to say we had seen this film lady in the flesh.
He thinks we’re not the only ones, either.
We have an idea he’s not far wrong. Not that
the show wasn’t interesting otherwise. It’s surprising
how vaudeville stands up to the entertainment racket.
More surprising still, perhaps, how some of its
notable practitioners do so. They even grow fat on it.


FOR
MILEAGE
THE SHELL COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
[lncorporated in Great Britain)
m
SI2II


ROYAL-
PURPLE.
PARA
•*' 'I
j
' . ■
>a.
u
i .
■
a
r-,v:
K
■
pm
MMi
■
m.
■
1
a
!’*'>«
B
■
m
mm
V
■
i
RlMit.
'-t
m
7j
1
Hi
mm
mm
w
H
m
■
ri
rMrf
£
: $
m
ii
m
m
ffm
w
mkm*
■
M
mm®
WW^.
m
t
in I
HM
sB®
P®i
i
.
$
■
iH:
Mi
//#
# &
rl
Hi H
r#
M: *
I ■*
t ,
»4
m
wt- - •?*' w* i. *
1
? 3
■
,:-3
* : j
m
Siva
Iff# «
,:- V
aii*
*
SHffi
'ii.... ; -
|ff#l
E #: 3ft
*•-*
1:^1
H
Aerial View of Seppeltsßeld, Showing Vast Storage and Maturing Cellars .


BELATED SPRING-CLEANING.
“I’ll be back when you’ve finished.”
“Don’t you EVER come back.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Gordon & Gotcli ( Aus.), Ltd.,
A delaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Say well Buildings, 115 Lamb ton
Quay, Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London,
E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 15s. 6d.;
3 months, Bs.
Posted Free to any address Overseas (Foreign):
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 25.; 3
months, 11s.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji, New
Hebrides and other places within the British
Empire, 2d. per copy. United Kingdom via France
or America, 2d. per copy. To all other places, 4d.
THE VERDICT.
Compulsory voting and the provision that “electors
not in their subdivision during polling hours may
record absent votes at any place elsewhere in the State
for which they are enrolled” have made the ascertain-
ing of the Australian people’s will a dreadfully tedi-
ous business, and the strain on nervous candidates
must be immense. Unless compulsion is abolished
or the absent-voting clause is drastically amended —at
present there is no adequate check on the honesty
of the alleged absentee —the period of suspense may,
at future elections, run into months. On the seventh
day after the late poll closed, ballot-papers were still
being examined in House of Representatives electo-
rates in which there were more than two candidates,
and the counting of preferences in Senate elections
had nowhere begun. Only this much was clear,
reckoning numbers only: that the Lyons Government
was doing better in the House of Representatives than
it had expected or had had a right to expect, and
faring worse in the Senate than it had bargained for.
House of Representatives figures in N. S. Wales
show that the Government has lost ground only in
Warringah. There, about 25,000 U.A.P. electors
declined to accept Mr. Archdale Parkhill as a heaven-
born Minister of Defence, preferring to regard the
gentleman as a misplaced amateur who had grown
too big for his boots. Apart from Warringah and
Gwydir, where Mr. Scully held the seat he gained at
the by-election, N. S. Wales divisions voted almost
exactly as they did in 1934.
South Australia, Westralia and Tasmania re-
elected their Ministerial members, for the most part
with diminished majorities. In Queensland the U.A.P.-
C.P. vote increased everywhere except Wide Bay, where
Mr. Corser was hard pressed by a Douglas Credit man.
He attributes this to the raising of the sectarian
issue, and it seems queer that Douglas Credit should
have made such strides in this one electorate when
in a dozen others its adherents were few. Queens-
land Labor blames sectarianism for the decline in
its own vote, particularly noticeable in Griffith, Lilley
and Darling Downs.
From a Ministerial point of view, Victoria is
the unsatisfactory State. Ballarat has gone to Mr.
Pollard, a returned soldier, who was in the Assembly
for some years as Labor member for Bulla-Dalhousie.
But Mr. Pollard’s majority was only five or six
hundred in a poll of 48,000, and the seat would have
been saved if the U.A.P. had had nous enough to run
Mr. Edmunds again, as well as the endorsed Mr.
Walker —in 1934 it was Edmunds preferences, just on
10,000 out of 10,752, that put Mr. Fisken in. Bendigo,
for its part, has changed from U.A.P. to C.P., though
the U.A.P. candidate, Mr. Pearse (like Mr. Fisken,
Mr. Eric Harrison did not stand again), was a very
good third in a field of three. Mr. Rankin, the suc-
cessful candidate, was president of the Agrarians’
central council, which, when dominated by Mr. Hock-
ing, arranged the queer State C.P. alliance with State
Labor ; but during the campaign Dr. Page spoke for
him, and his dependence on U.A.P. preferences will
keep him quiet. Dr. Page has, however, lost a sup-
porter in Wimmera, where Mr. McClelland was
defeated by Mr. Wilson, also of the central council,
who says he is against composite Ministries.
Labor and U.A.P. left Wimmera to the C.P.
factions, Labor supporting Mr. Wilson and the
U.A.P. Mr. McClelland. Between them they got
44,000 votes, and Mr. Wilson’s majority of 2000 or
so is certainly less than the number by which the
Labor vote in Wimmera exceeds the U.A.P. vote.
In a fatuous moment, the C.P. bosses who are against
composite Ministries decided to run their own Senate
team. When 918,921 Senate votes had been counted,
their men had 63,689, the Labor three 455,878, the
U.A.P. trio 373,916, and a too-hopeful Independent
(he was once a C.P. Assemblyman in favor of com-
posite Ministries) 25,438. Premier Dunstan can
scarcely be grateful to the central council gentlemen
for thus demonstrating that, when not swollen by
Labor suffrages —as it has been in Wimmera and as
it was at the Assembly elections —or by U.A.P.
No. l’s or No. 2’s, the Cocky vote is small. It is
doubtful whether Mr. Dunstan’s Government will
long survive this startling revelation of the inane
strategy of the Trades Hall bosses in putting—and
keeping—it in.
One of the survivors of a notable generation of
A.W.U. men, Mr. Barnes has always made a strong
appeal to Victorians. Admiration for his sterling
qualities and the feeling (by no means confined to
Labor supporters) that it is not good for Australia
that the Senate should continue to be too-lifelike
an imitation of a U.A.P.-U.C.P. caucus contributed to
the vote —greatly in excess of that polled by Labor
at the Assembly elections —which will sweep Mr.
Barnes back to the Senate, and carry Mr. Cameron
and Mr. Keane with him. There are U.A.P. Senators
who could be better spared than Assistant Minister
Brennan, Mr. Guthrie and Mr. Plain, but those old
hands can “take it.” Three U.A.P. Senators will go
out in Tasmania also, and Mr. Sampson at least, as
a veteran of two wars and an enthusiast for real
national defence, deserved a kinder fate. But Tas-
manian electors have shown themselves singularly
irresponsive to the claims made for the Prime Min-
ister and to the argument that his Government has
been an unfailing source of easy money.
In Queensland, South Australia and Westralia
the voting is so close that anything may happen. The
indications are that the Government will carry South
Australia and Queensland, in which case it will have
a Senate majority of nine after the end of June. And
Senator Pearce may scrape back in Westralia, while
there is still a chance for Senator Arkins in N. S.
Wales.
Ministers indignantly report that there were
hundreds of thousands of informal Senate votes. This
is unfortunate ; but since compulsion was introduced
the proportion of informal votes has always been
high, and it has been added to by the unnecessary
injunction that the elector must vote in order of
preference for all the candidates and by the asinine
grouping and perpendicular printing of names —hence
A tickets. In the Adelaide division three years ago
5524 ballot-papers were rejected because, as the Chief
Electoral Officer noted, they were “incompletely
marked with figures from 1 to 6 or less” (there were
seven candidates for three vacancies).
Of these about 29 per cent, were marked 1, 2 and 3,
and about 57 per cent, marked 1,2, 3,4, 5 and 6
the square opposite the Communist candidate was the
one left vacant.
No doubt the same thing has happened again on
a large scale in every electorate. The law which
obliges returning officers to discard such votes is
idiotic.
The huge vote for the A ticket in N. S. Wales
has wrung a cry of anguish from the Sydney “Morn-
ing Herald” —“dunderheads decide the national gov-
ernment.” One of its correspondents, Mr. David
Campbell, is nearer the mark when he suggests that
“some people who voted the Government ticket for
the Lower House supported the Labor Senate team in
order to even up the party’s strength in the Upper
Chamber.” The Senate being what the party machines
have made it, the people will refuse to go into national
mourning for Mr. Amour’s victory over Mr. Arkins.
If the Government has any proposals for turning it
into something better than a meek pre-selected House
which sits seldom, and to which a cartload of un-
digested bills is delivered towards the end of every
session, with instructions to shove them through
and look sharp about it, they will be favorably con-
sidered. But if it finds itself without a Senate
majority and inflicts an untimely election on a country
surfeited with elections, it will be defeated, and will
deserve to be defeated.
The Boycott Boomerang.
Last week an executive member of the Japanese
Chamber of Commerce in Sydney made a statement
on boycotting which should have brought a few
people to their senses. In a word, his statement was
that Japan would retaliate.
It seems evident from this that some effect is
being felt, or, at any rate, that there are signs of
threatened damage to trade ominous enough to make
Japan’s trade representatives in Australia anxious.
Mr. Yamashita, in making his statement, may not
have been speaking officially, but it is pretty certain
that he was speaking accurately. He would have a
sound idea of how trade is shaping, know what effect
the efforts of our foolish boycotters are having on it,
and probably know how Japan was feeling about it
officially. He made no bones about his certainty that
if the boycott movement in Australia grows Japan
will, for one thing, look elsewhere for wool.
Mr. Yamashita pointed out —what is the crux. of
the whole matter from a national Australian point
of view—that a very high proportion of the wool
imported into Japan is for local consumption and
not for re-export. In other words, the Japanese could
do with far less wool; and nobody should need remind-
ing that they can certainly do without our wool indefi-
nitely. He wound up his frank statement by suggest-
ing that the resumption of woolbuying here is going
to depend on what Australia does about the boycott.
That, however unofficial, is almost certainly not
merely individual opinion. It very probably has
strong official backing, and it springs from a well-
informed awareness of what the trade position really
is. The Japanese are not given to bluffing: Mr.
Gullett’s “trade war,” apart from all sorts of other
evidence —including the sort that is now coming out
of China —makes that clear enough. A statement
such as Mr. Yamashita’s is meant to be taken liter-
ally, and seriously.
It makes perfectly clear which section in Aus-
tralia would directly stop the boycott boomerang.
The woolgrowers, of course ; and the wheatgrowers
would suffer to some extent. It should be noted that
none of the boycotters are people likely to be directly
the poorer by a penny. It would be the same old
crowd who are sacrificed always in overseas trade
bungling.
That is, directly. Indirectly, everybody would,
of course, be stung, except only the few —these are
the noisiest of the boycotters —who haven't anything
whatever to lose and don’t mind what sacrifices are
made, or by whom, so long as Red policy is served,
even if only by a gesture.
If Mr. Yamashita’s warning is not taken, and
the boycotting grows, and trade is affected, and Japan
retaliates, then Australia will find the luxury of wind-
bags more than it can afford.
So far no real attempt has been made to
check the Red trouble-makers. Mr. Lyons did make
one statement in Brisbane deprecating the folly of
boycott by individuals and small organisations, and
pointing out that it was a line of action to be taken
nationally or not at all; but a feeble repetition, of this
utterance is all that has come from him since.
Mr. Lyons is in a position to give a badly-needed
lead. Even a statement from him as unequivocal as
Mr. Yamashita’s would do incalculable good, both in
making Australians generally as aware as they should
be of just what dangerous meddlers individual-boycott
windbags are, and in officially reassuring a country
which has given no sign of desiring trade trouble
with us. ...
Mr. Yamashita’s organisation, for its part, might
also help clear the air—it is mostly irresponsible hot
air—by conveying to Japan that the boycotters hete
really are only the usual meddling bunch of windbags,
no more representative of Australia than they are of
Peru.
Cancer Can Be Cured.
Quarter of a century ago cancer killed 3537 Aus-
tralians in one year. Tuberculosis was then a deadlier
disease ; in the same twelvemonth it carried off 3688
Australians. Though the population has increased by
2,500,000 in the meantime, deaths from tuberculosis
have fallen below 3000 ; but cancer deaths have in-
creased steadily. By 1928 they had reached the 6000
mark. The average now is 7500 p.a. This does not,
however, measure the extent of the spread of cancer
or the human suffering it causes.
At Prince Alfred Hospital, Sydney, 1562 new
cases came in last year. At Sydney Hospital, the
average of new cases is about 1000 p.a. At these
two hospitals alone there were 25,000 separate medical
attendances on cancer patients, indoor and outdoor.
And other hospitals receive these cases, while a dozen
Sydney specialists in private practice devote them-
selves solely to cancer treatment. A knowledgeable
estimate places the number of new cases each year
in Sydney alone at 4000-odd, involving 40,000 treat-
ments.
The deathrate is much lower than it used to be.
Radium, deep-ray therapy and improved surgery —
now a last resort —remedy a vast number of cancers.
But the medical profession finds it hard to keep up
with the needs of patients, especially the poorer ones,
since deep X-ray treatment, which is becoming the
staple method, is naturally limited, and the cost of
installing and running plants is considerable.
Plant alone for a 400,000-volt machine runs a
clinic into something like £6OOO, without subsidiary
expenses. Consequently there are few plants, and
every hospital which has a clinic has a long waiting
list, The position is all the more unpleasant since
speed is the essence of the contract in treatment.
Cancers of the lip, tongue and face are curable
without recourse to the disfiguring knife. In advanced
cases, pain can be relieved, life prolonged and death
made less horrible. Given quick treatment and proper
attention to research, the incidence of cancer can be
lowered as that of tuberculosis has been.
The newer methods of treatment have advanced
so rapidly that medical men find it hard to sort out
results and apply them, while keeping pace with the
growing number of cases. The Commonwealth Gov-
ernment has provided radium and placed an able
radio-physicist, Dr. Eddy, at the service of the profes-
sion. At the same time, with all the thousands of
cases to be treated, it is only in the last year that Sydney
has instituted a course for training radio-technicians.
Sydney University has had at its disposal a large
sum of money, partly from public collections, partly
from bequests. But much of the money has been
spent, and when an epitaph on the University research
department has to be written, as it is proposed now
it shall be, four words will suffice: “It did its best.”
The N. S. Wales Health Minister proposes to
remove research from the University to the Prince
Henry Hospital. If he has his way the poor will
have to travel many painful miles to secure treat-
ment. The same applies to medical specialists, most
of whom are overworked.
A comprehensive Commonwealth-wide scheme
of cancer treatment and research is needed. Each
large city should have its special cancer hospital, with
adequate beds and machine facilities, easily accessible
to the greatest number of patients and to the greatest
number of skilled practitioners. Such hospitals could
be attached with advantage to one of the larger
general hospitals—such as Prince Alfred in Sydney.
Cancer treatment should be cheapened, if necessary
through subsidies.
And there is need for a general educational cam-
paign ; or, rather, two campaigns—one to teach the
public that cancer is curable if taken at an early stage ;
the other to equip every general physician to diagnose
symptoms. Brigaded with the hospitals . should be
research co-ordinating bureaux and reporting depart-
ments, which would make available information
gained in the clinics.
A sum of £300,000 spent on an Australia-wide
scheme would go a long way. It is not a large sum
as Government expenditures go—not nearly as much
as the Sydney Government has found for civil-service
palaces in some years.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Melbourne Cup.
There is no better business barometer in Australia
than the amount of Melbourne Cup prize-money.
When it is firm at £lO,OOO things are pretty good,
and, in the judgment of those representative men the
members of the V.R.C. committee, are likely to stay
that way. When it falls below £lO,OOO plain living
and high thinking are advisable.
Things were very good in Australia when the
“added money” was raised to £lO,OOO in 1890 —Car-
bine’s year. At that figure it was kept for four years,
it being hoped in 1893 (as it was in 1930) that the
depression would be brief. By 1894 the effects of the
bank smashes and the bursting of the land boom had
been felt so painfully that the owners of first, second
and third divided only £5OOO that year. In 1895
came a further reduction to £3OOO, and there was no
substantial rise again till 1901 (Revenue’s year), when
£5OOO was distributed again. Anyone who lived
through those times will testify that there had been no
substantial recovery till 1901.
Then came a gradual rise to £Bl5O (the £l5O
being for the trophy) in 1913. The war caused a
slump to £6150; and not till 1922 was the £lO,OOO
mark reached again. In the depression year 1931
the money was down to £7200 ; in 1932 to £5200. As
things improved it went up to £8200; last year saw
a return to £lO,OOO “and trophy valued £200,” and
this year £lO,OOO was distributed again.
From the ’sixties the Melbourne Cup race has had
a national appeal. Wireless has made this feature
of it greater than ever. Gone for ever are the days
when remote punters hung round pubs or tobac-
conists’ shops waiting for a “one-two-three” telegram.
Nowadays they can sit in their homes, however distant
and primitive, and hear the race described by reporters
who—except that one or two will talk too fast-
do the thing very well. No other national event of
annual occurrence makes Australians so conscious of
being members of the same family.
"Peanut Politicians."
The most-talked-of man in the U.S.A. these days is
not the President but an old Senator from Virginia,
Carter Glass. A Jeffersonian Democrat, he has stead-
fastly opposed almost the entire Roosevelt pro-
gramme, from the devaluation of the dollar, which he
described as “national repudiation,” to the attempt
“to crowd into the Supreme Court a lot of judicial
marionettes to speak the ventriloquisms of the White
House.”
Senator Glass is a personal friend of Mr.
Roosevelt (it says much for both men that they
remain friendly), but he has never left President or
people in any doubt as to what he thinks of Roose-
veltism ; and after the shocks of the past six months
the people seem to be coming round to his way of
thinking. He has not chosen to leave the party with
whose direction he is so much out of sympathy, hold-
ing that he can do more good for the nation by
remaining within it and helping to guide it into saner
paths. For Virginia Democrats a change to Repub-
licanism is out of the question: it would mean politi-
cal suicide.
So Mr. Glass stood for re-election as Senator.
The “Saturday Evening Post” relates what happened.
He ran on the same ticket with the President. ,
His voice was not raised to recommend Mr. Roosevelt
to the voters; he was, however, waging no campaign
on his own behalf, except to assure his constituents
that, if re-elected, Carter Glass would continue to uphold
his own opinions regardless of the instructions of party
managers or electorate, and that those who wished a
rubber-stamp Senator should vote for someone else
On election day he ran 15,000 votes ahead of the
national ticket.
Yet he had risked the enmity of powerful sec-
tions.
He was urged to vote for the veterans’ bonus. In
reply he observed that the petition was numerously
signed. “But,” he added, “if it were signed by every
man, woman and child in Virginia I would not vote
for that bill ”
Peanut-raising is a good-sized industry in Virginia.
When a body of growers asked Senator Glass to sponsor
a change in the tariff schedule, he replied that he
was “not a peanut politician.”
Australian parties would be all the better for the
presence of members who would tell them the truth,
as they see it, and shame the devil. Unfortunately
none of them encourages the man of independent
mind: they all prefer “peanut politicians.” The public
nevertheless values character and courage in its repre-
sentatives. When a man possessed of these qualities
emerges from the herd, constituencies are apt to
show that they have no caprices where he is con-
cerned, and will protect him against the malice of
parties.
William Watson, a rugged old butter merchant
in whom Mr. Bruce saw some Lincolnian character-
istics, belonged to no party; and held Fremantle
against the lot. He twice defeated the present leader
of Federal Labor. Mr. Curtin, a generous fellow,
said once, “I can beat anyone for Fremantle—except
Bill Watson.”
So James McLachlan has been M.L.A. for Gipps-
land North since 1908. He was first elected as a Labor
member, but, finding that he could not call his poli-
tical soul his own, he left the Labor party and stood
as an Independent. Gradually the political com-
plexion of Gippsland has changed. Labor once—at
least in spots —it is nearly all Country party now;
but Gippsland North has refused to give up Mc-
Lachlan.
The late Assembly election saw the Country
party united with Labor, and both put up candidates
against McLachlan. The Labor bosses instructed
their supporters to give their preferences to the C.P.
man. After the first count, the C.P. man and Mc-
Lachlan were left in, and McLachlan’s friends said
“Jimmy, you’ll have to pack your bag at last.” But
32 per cent, of the Labor people gave their second
votes to McLachlan, and in he went once more.
Very probably Australia would get a higher
standard of representation for less money if it had
only one Parliament, with provincial assemblies or
County Councils, members of which would be paid
attendance fees only. Certainly there are far too
many “peanut politicians” about.
The Red Ulcer in Spain.
From a Victorian in London:
The true position in Spain is withheld from the British
public, largely by official action. All the stuff talked about
opening the French frontier is mere tosh. The French frontier
has never been closed to arms or men.
Adding the Belgian, French and Russian Reds together,
you get pretty well all the Red fighting force in Spain. They
are vastly in excess of the Italians. Nearly all the men on
both sides are volunteers.
Franco would be quite agreeable to all volunteers being
withdrawn. He knows, and everyone else knows, the difficulty
of getting them out of the Red area.
The German aid to Franco is largely material and advice
—there are no Germans engaged. Mussolini’s trouble is that
the number of his volunteers, the aid he has given them,
his fight for Fascism and his position with his people make
it necessary for him to achieve success.
Our Foreign Office and France are more concerned in
scoring off Musso. than in settling the Spanish trouble.
They permit the press to publish the propaganda of the
Spanish Reds and never raise a finger to refute it. (Sorry, one
finger was raised; they permitted the Admiralty to deny the
Basilisk lie after giving it 10 days’ start.) They know that the
French frontier never has been closed; they know that Franco’s
territory is clearly and firmly governed and that the Spaniards
in it are perfectly content; they know that the Reds repre-
sent Russian intrigue; and yet they and the newspapers—
even the Times do nothing to educate the people here to
the facts. The reason is that the Government is too scared
of giving its own Left a chance of attack.
Russia tried to Bolshevise Germany, Italy, Poland and
Hungary, and failed. Spain is Russia’s last effort in Europe.
The Bulletin knows the writer. It is his business
to keep in touch with what is going on, and he has
sources of information denied to Left Wing newspaper
correspondents.
Transport in North Australia.
An issue in all northern electorates in the late election
campaign was the question of connecting North Aus-
tralia with the southern capitals by rail. It was
clearly understood when the Commonwealth took
over the Northern Territory from South Australia
that the Adelaide-Darwin connection would be made.
Half-measures always appeal to politicians, so,
allegedly in part performance of the contract with
South Australia, Commonwealth Governments have
built several hundred miles of 3ft. 6in. railway. The
Oodnadatta-Alice Springs section (293 miles), com-
pleted in 1929, cost £1,700,000. Lightly built, it runs
mainly through sandhills, and the chief employment
it gives is to fettlers engaged (as those between Oodna-
datta and Hawker are engaged) in keeping the rails
clear of sand.
For defensive purposes, it is of little use. The
traffic needed to keep an army division in action at
Alice Springs would congest the line in three days,
and possibly wear it out in a week.
Surveyed from Alice Springs northward to
Birdum, the terminus of the line from Darwin —it is
even more decrepit than Ocdnadatta-Alice Springs—
is another 600 miles of route, and northern electors
in the N.T., Kalgoorlie and Kennedy want this 600
miles bridged. But construction would cost nearly
£5,000,000, seeing the distance which sleepers, rails
and so forth would have to be carried. And then it
would only be single-gauge, which is a poor arrange-
ment for defensive purposes. Possible revenue may
be judged on the results shown by existing N.T. lines,
latest available figures being taken.
Capital cost £7,500,000
Gross revenue .. .. .. .. . . 121,795
Working expenses .. .. .. .. 175,885
So the financial prospect is not alluring. Still,
there remains the question of that contract with S.A.
which has not been performed.
Transport methods are changing all over the
world. The Canadian National Railways have de-
veloped dual-purpose trains which have wheels to
run on rails and others which allow trains to be
shunted off rails and on to roads. There are possi-
bilities in the adaptation of these trains to North Aus-
tralian conditions.
An all-weather highway on the lines of the Grand
Trunk Road in India, with regular motor services,
would be of immense service to the North, especially
if northern ports were developed, together with a
reasonably costed and regular shipping service, feed-
ing from the abundant rivers which flow into
northern seas.
The Halted Millennium.
When T. J. Ryan opened his first State “enterprise”
he told his enthusiastic party that he was embarking
on an era in which “the profits earned out of Labor
pockets would be returned to Labor.” He and his
successors went in for other State “enterprises.” The
Auditor-General takes out the ghosts and dusts them
every year.
Just over £933,000 has been written off the State
stations, now all disposed of, £94,000 having to come
from purchasers. Net indebtedness to the State
against them is still £871,000. Against the remaining
enterprises there is a net debit of £307,000. Including
amounts written off, the dead ventures have £2,238,000
°f Treasury funds invested in them, reduced by only
£28,000 last year. Debts of purchasers of the remains
of those which were saleable, plus valued assets still
unsold, amount to £400,000.
The loss of actual capital seems to have been
nearly two millions, even assuming existing assets
realise their valuations. That would have met
four years Queensland deficits on last year’s scale.
And, of course, the figures refer only to enter-
prises which have been buried or reorganised. There
are another nine accounts from “revenue-producing
activities” which are overdrawn* to the extent of
£908,000, including Chillagoe Smelters (£366,000),
Irvinebank ore plant (£60,000) and sapphire trading
(£42,000). Against the last amount “a quantity of
gems is on hand whose value cannot be estimated,
but before the account is closed there will be a heavy
loss on adjustment.” Receipts for the year were £2B.
Concerning the Chillagoe and Irvinebank ore-
treatment works, the A.-G. says:
Of Chillagoe overdraft, £350,000 has accumulated
as a result of loss on working since the plant was
reconditioned for use in 1929-30. The continued opera-
tion of these two undertakings with increasing overdrafts
appears to be a form of assistance to the mining industry
and also for the relief of unemployment.
And it might be added for the relief of the Queens-
land Government railways, which carry ore 1000 miles
or so from the Cloncurry district. Chillagoe receipts
were £204,000 last year; expenditure was £256,000.
But it is thought that the taxpayers can stand
it all. Since 1931-32 income tax has increased 57.83
p.c., and all taxes have gone up 43.2 p.c., and Premier
Forgan Smith says he positively can’t bring them
down.
Examinations.
Last week in N. S. Wales 50,000 perspiring youngsters
sat in examination rooms to prove to the Education
Department and the world the extent to which they
had benefited by a primary course of free State
schooling.
Breathing hard, small boys who were examined
in the English section set out to determine what a
certain Mrs. Hurst would have done to entertain a
Mrs. Lane at a tea-party. The brief answers “Who
knows?” and “It depends on Mrs. Lane” would no
doubt have been ruled out.
There are places in Sydney where Mrs. Hurst
would feel that she was not doing her duty and making
the party “interesting” unless she sent for a quart of
pinkie and heaved the bottle at a copper. There are
others in which Mrs. Lane would have felt that, unless
the tea was China and the conversation about obstet-
rics, the party would be a poor show. Examiners,
however, do not dare to be realists, and small boys
can’t be without appearing precocious. It might have
been healthier to ask the urchins to imagine what
Bradman normally says when Larwood bowls or to
write an imaginary monologue by a red-headed
forward in a scrum.
And critics in knickerbockers were commanded
to dissect a poem about a ploughman winding over a
“lea.” Who among them would know a lea even if
he saw it in a clear light, and how many of them have
ever heard the song of the lark?
Then came “jography.” Answers showed that
many of the youngsters felt that a journey through
N. S. Wales would be epoch-making for overseas
visitors because of the koala, the surf, fishing and
the Blue Mountains. Public-relations questions in the
history paper included inquiries about the date of
the first English Parliament and
How do Governments secure the money necessary
for carrying on their duties?
This seems essentially a question for fathers rather
than schoolboys.
It seems a pity that the New Education Fellow-
ship people departed before these examination papers
were set.
The Trade Commission Stunt.
The Government Statistician has issued figures show-
ing the development of Australia’s trade with Asiatic
countries since those countries began to be invaded
by the latest lot of Trade Commissioners. Mr. Gullett’s
trade war seems to have been too much for the Trade
Commissioners, and the Asiatic seems to have been
too much for Messrs. Lyons and Gullett.
In 1935-36 imports of Asiatic goods into Aus-
tralia were valued at £18,730,000 ; in 1936-37 —the
trade-war year —the figure was £19,938,000. But
Japan’s imports of Australian goods dropped from
£17,625,000-worth to £9,686,000-worth and our favor-
able trade balance with Japan from £11,413,000 to
£4,663,000.
In 1936-37 Australia’s exports to Asiatic countries
declined in value nearly £8,000,000. A merchandise
trade balance of £6,153,000 in 1935-36 was turned,
in 1936-37, into a deficit of £2,986,000.
Somehow or other this sort of thing always
happens, on a small or large scale, when Government
gets the Trade-Commissioner bee in its bonnet.


Society
"AND ITS PRINTED WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“D.E.”: Parkhill stories are going the
rounds in Mosman and Manly. Some
may be apocryphal, but these are vouched
for. Spender was christened Percy, like
a great poet. “Percy?” shouted Park-
hill at an open-air meeting ; “who ever
heard of a politician named Percy ?” “Oh,
Archdale” came a reproachful cry from
where the bleachers would have been if
there had been bleachers. “When I was
in England,” said the candidate on an-
other occasion, “I met Lord, Lord” —-—
“Lord HelpyouonSaturday,” a voice
breathed o’er the meeting.
* * * *
“Captain Pintle”: A call on the Clan
Campbell, one of the newest style
freighters, revived memories of the pre-
war 10-knot cargo-bruiser, built by the
mile and cut off in chunks as required,
bad to handle, ill-found and hard living.
No sore-eyed squinting into the sleety
blast around a canvas dodger, no won-
dering whether that lunk-headed blankard
on lookout has gone to sleep, no mis-
taken figures brought back by a sleepy
boy sent to read the taffrail log—it’s a
gentleman’s life to-day, what with tele-
phones and echo-sounding, centrifugal
view-screens and radio bearings, wheel
indicators and wake-readers, fire and
smoke alarms, and a whole laboratory of
gadgets for making the business fool-
proof. But, make no mistake, the well-
spoken, white-handed young fellows who
enjoy all these luxuries are just as good
men in a tight place as their sea-fathers
ever were.
* * * =l=
“Kwakprak”: Out of the horror of
Spain has come one good thing—sub-
stantial extension of practical knowledge
in the use of stored human blood for
transfusion. Taken from either living
donors or newly-dead bodies, it is stored
in glass containers under a pressure of
two atmospheres. Its particular group-
ing is noted, A and O being mostly used,
as these are the most universally applic-
able. The blood-group of the patient
having been ascertained, the suitable
group-blood is administered direct from
the container into a vein. The blood
remains alive up to four weeks or more,
and there is no risk of infection or de-
velopment of toxins in it.
* * * *
“Mag”: Relief work has often been
criticised as unproductive, but it does
provide, at times, a little humor. I over-
heard a couple of “workers” at Ipswich
(Q.). “What do you want to go so hard
for?” said one. “Well, hang it all, a
chap should do a fair thing for his pay,”
replied the other. “Not in this case. This
relief money’s already been wojked for.”
* h= * *
“Ex-Roundsman”: The Sydney press
was much more outspoken a century ago.
When the editor of the “Sydney Gazette”
found that a joyous lady had tried to
jump his theatre seat on November 21,
1837, he dealt with her in next day’s
issue, referring to “this creature of vice
who wantonly endeavored to introduce
her polluted carcass into the place
selected by the father of a family,” and
warning the lessee that, if he didn’t keep
such patrons out, “the whole available
powers we may have at our disposal
shall be fearlessly hurled at the head of
the offenders.” He was a strict discipli-
narian, too. Earlier in the year he men-
tions that one of the comps, had been
“found guilty of absconding and being
drunk in the streets, and was sentenced
to receive a corporal punishment of 50
lashes. The fellow has been on the spree
for the last week.” Another comp, got
three days on the treadmill for absenting
himself from work for more than six
hours.
* * * *
“Xie”: It would be interesting to know
what an election costs in loss of time and
hard cash. At the booth where I acted
as poll clerk, 61 votes were polled. The
61 voters represented 28 family groups
and, all told, they travelled 352 miles to
record their votes, and this in a closely-
settled area. What the average would be
in some of the outlying subdivisions of
electorates like Darling and Gwydir I
wouldn’t care to guess.
* * * *
“C. G. Salis”: It happened a long time
ago, so perhaps the Statute of Limita-
tions will protect me. I was a licensing
referendum poll clerk. At the close we
opened the box and quickly counted the
ballot papers—2s “No” and 11 “Yes.”
As we finished counting we heard
a sulky outside. The deputy r.o. looked
out: “It’s old Tim ,” he said. “It's
pretty rough on him to drive a dozen
miles and not get a vote. Shove ’em
back, quick.” Shove ’em back we did,
and Tim ind his wife recorded their votes
and departed. Reckoned up again,
there were 38 —26 “No” and 12 “Yes.”
Tim and his wife had driven 24 miles,
and we had busted the Electoral Acl
wide open for nothing.
*
“Groper”: Westralia’s “Six Families’
might have been classified afresh with
each generation. Back in the ’forties
and ’fifties the biggest men in the West
were the Samsons, the Batemans and
the Shentons. Lionel Samson organised
W.A.’s first whaling venture. The
Shentons were Perth’s largest store-
keepers—Maylands and Nedlands (May’s
land and Ned’s land) represent the final
cutting-up of the family estates. John
Bateman, once Samson’s head har-
pooner, built a fine fleet of schooners
which traded regularly to Singapore, and
not infrequently carried the meagre W.A.
wool clip to London. Other candidates
might be the Mongers, the Lefroys and
the Roes. The Forrests, supposed to be
the leaders of The Six, were really quite
poor folks —the famous John left his
father’s Bunbury holding to take a cadet-
ship in the Survey Office, and ended as
Australia’s first lord.
“Ike Hollar”: There have been hun-
dreds of prophecies about the end of the
world that have gone phut. Zangwill in
The Messiah made a background of
one of the many Jewish periods of expec-
tation, and Christendom has (had as
many; but in age after age 1940 has
been mentioned by critics of intermediate
dates as the likely year. In 1940
6001 in the Jewish chronology—is the
commencement of the seventh millennium,
which is the millennium to those inter-
preters of prophecy who apply the key
supplied in Psalms, “a thousand years in
His sight is but as a day,” and take the
days of creation as another measure,
Armageddon has always been a pointer;
and the Great War supplied an adequate
Armageddon which, with the return of
Jews to Palestine, has helped to supply
the interpreters of the prophets with
fund for argument and hope. If nothing
happens in 1940 the end-of-the-worldites
will be very disappointed.
* *„*..* .
“Salmon Gums : Passing into general
Australian currency is the verb to 1 har-
lap” with a meaning something like
“garrotte,” but stronger. Thus a gangster
might be “garrotted” by his mates, where
a clean sportsman or a popular hguie
would be “Pharlapped.” #
•TV* One conviction implanted in my
noddle by long and inglorious years as a
spiller of ink is that Fate has it in for
persons who are overexposed to news-
paper applause. Something sudden and
drastic almost invariably expels them
from the front pages. Now and then de-
termined characters recover portion of
their old glory, but not often. Examples
that occur to me are Woodrow Wilson,
Lloyd George—Britain never forgave
him for backing the Greeks against the
Turks—and, in Australia, Billy Hughes,
Hugh D. Mclntosh and the unfortunate
De Garis. It looks as if the second
Roosevelt will be added to the collection,
His vogue was still great seven months
ago, but in those seven months there have
“If it turns out jake, I'll take a couple o’ dozen sepia cabinets."
occurred the epidemic of sit-down strikes,
a series of crashes in Wall-street and the
affair of the Judge who was a Ku-Klux-
Klansman ; and the dreadful admission
has been made that the New Deal crowd
have doubled the national debt. So
nowadays Americans from Puget Sound
to San Francisco Bay are leaping
furiously on their recent idol. When
Roosevelt-worship was at its height, the
glories of the New Deal were hymned
by Tin Pan Alley composers, and a thing
called “The Road Is Open Again” be-
came all the rage. Dick Powell, the
world’s worst film actor, beefed it out
with chorus, two lines being:
There’s an Eagle Blue in the White House,
too,
On the shoulder of our President there.
Anyone singing the thing in the U.S.A.
nowadays would deserve the Congres-
sional Medal, but a Sydney radio station
turns it on nearly every morning.
* * * ' *
“Shellback”: After the election, Jock
Garden, in explaining the defeat of the
Labor party, said that the U.A.P. came
up on the lee side and took the wind out
of Labor’s sails. These blokes are too
late. They could have taught Nelson
sailorising.
$ * * $
“General Prac.”: Whatever the merits
of A. J. Cronin’s The Citadel there’s one
thing to be said —the medical stuff in the
book is faultlessly done. The reason is,
of course, that Cronin is himself a
doctor. Most novelists soon get out of
their depth when dealing with medical
matters; at random I recall only one
written by a layman in which the
technical details are correct—-Sinclair
Lewis’s Martin Arrowsmith, but Lewis
is said to have got his information from
the famous Dr. Alexis Carrel. It s rare,
too, for writers of any kind, let alone
doctor-writers, to slate the profession as
Cronin does. Literature abounds witn
silly curates, shyster lawyers and scoun-
drelly financiers, but you find tew
physicians or surgeons who are really
dirty dogs.
* * * *
“Passenger”: Strange deck-cargo was
brought to Australia by the German
steamer stassfurt, just arrived in Sydney,
she carried a mo tor-ship 110 ft. long,
2QO h and 14 q tonSj w hich is to run
between Sydney and Noumea. French-
owned, though built in Holland, it is
ca n ed Le Phoque. It saved both time
b V LTown
as a P as ?“Se t-toad o.unde, its own
P° we V,n bUt i, 0 b = ! deck » caUed
side of the Stassfurlis.foredeck, ft called
tor some accurate trimming of the star
b ° ard ba l'ast.
* . *
“Shame-hic-gain”: Temp-mc-eransh
blokesh been talkin’ lorrer shilly rot bout
blokesh ruinin’ themshelvsh an keepin
familiesh in guttersh by spendin’ few
bobsh on booze an smokesh. Worrl aghk
yer is ’ow’d the flamin’ country pay itsh
way if every-hic-one wash teet-hic-total?
Five an’ arf millionsh quid exshish on
beer, million more on shpiritsh. Nother
million dutiesh. Five millionsh exshish on
tobacco. Three mill-dutiesh, too. Fif-
teen an’ ’arf million quid. Who paysh
it? We paysh it, norrer lorrer flamin’
teetotallersh. They paysh nothin’.
Shtead o’ bein’ grateful to ush blokes,
jusht keepsh pickin’ at us all flamin'
time. Where’d pore ole penshioners be
but for us? We paysh them. ’Nough to
make a bloke cry to think wot’d ’appen
to pore old penshioners but for ush.
Lemon-hic-ade an’ good advishe is all
they’d get but for ush. Oughter be a
taxsh on the cruel cowsh, shtarvin’ pore
old peoplesh like that. Worrer ’bout it,
Joe Lyonsh?
* * * *
From Braby and Waller, solicitors,
London: —
The attention of our client, Dr. Marie
Stopes, has been called to a paragraph (B.
11/8/’37) which contains the following words:
“Before me is a column in which pre-
ventives and Marie Stopes lucubrations
are advertised by seven agents; one be-
speaks purchasers for a dozen different
articles.”
Dr. Stopes wishes it to be known that she
has already had occasion to stop the unauthor-
ised use of her name in Australia in connection
with articles which she has not recommended
and with which she has nothing at all to do.
Our client has appointed no one to be her
agent in Australia, and the advertisements re-
ferred to in the article are issued without her
knowledge, consent or approval. Dr. Stopes
is doing everything in her power to stamp out
this practice, to which she most strongly objects.
It is a fact that works by Dr. Stopes
were advertised, as stated. The para-
graph did not say that Dr. Stopes recom-
mended or was concerned in the sale of
the articles referred to.
A POLITICAL TRAGEDY.
“An M.P. says he always makes a point of heckling
himself when rehearsing a speech.”
Many, no doubt, have wondered why McSnivel
never thundered
His invective from the soapbox; why he
never reached the poll
In the Federal election, for he’d got the pre-
selection
For a seat as safe any, with the Cabinet
his goal.
But the Fates, in diabolic mood (or p’raps
for just a frolic),
Whisked him off the stage of politics before
he could be heard.
It was while he was rehearsing an address and
roundly cursing
His own stupid interjections that the tragedy
occurred.
Having called himself a bonehead he had let
fly at his own head;
For this insult to himself at his reflection
then he spat.
As more gibes he’d not endure he, with
ungovernable fury,
Chucked his person from the window of
his seventh-storey flat!
N.S.W.
S.W. KEOUGH.


“T.”: Possibly the spectacular “Greek
god” side of organised lifesaving is a bit
overdone ; but is the human spirit capable
of any higher quality of courage than
that shown by members of surf clubs in
desperate emergencies? On a day of
lowering skies one of these lads was
taken by a shark off Coolangatta (Q.)
while he and two mates were waiting on
a sandspit for a breaker to wash them
in. A survivor swam after him, but the
sight was so terrible and the situation so
hopeless that, sickened, he turned towards
the shore with the other young fellow.
The latter was grabbed by the man-
eater and mutilated horribly. A fourth
youngster rushed in from the beach and
rescued him, almost from the shark’s
jaws. Fearful as his injuries were, the
second victim was conscious and still
game ; but he was too far gone, and he
died 12 hours afterwards. White Aus-
tralia will endure while it has young men
of such mettle, provided they are trained
and equipped to save the country as well
as to save individual lives.
* * * *
“Mere”: Suicide psychology (B.
27/10/’37)? I was in a country phar-
"All you need is a good feed. How about coming to lunch?”
macy when a young woman entered to
make inquiries about a little-known drug.
The chemist, in a bright little chat, told
her he had none in stock, and added that
it was very hard to obtain. The lady
went, and the chemist’s offsider men-
tioned that they really had ample sup-
plies. “Yes,” said the pill man grimly,
“but didn’t you see about a Sydney
suicide with it last week? I never admit
I haVe such drug in stock until the in-
terest in them has died down. It’s the
second inquiry I’ve had about it this
week.”
* * * *
“Plancus”: Donald Cameron went one
better than Cook, who said River class
destroyers could go up rivers (B.
27/10/ ’37). Donald told a questioner at
a League meeting in Geneva that coir
was the white flesh of the coconut, while
copra was the same thing dried.
“Hoots”: A young lady visitor to
Sydney Government House is said to be
barred by her sex from
the titular chieftainship
of the Macleans of
Ardour, but apparently
she becomes possessed
of the clan’s ancient
lands (or part of them)
on attaining legal age.
She has to thank a
vigorous former
Duchess of Sutherland,
who lived about a cen-
tury ago. Until that
time a Scottish clan
conceded one family
the hereditary title of
chieftain, but all lands
were held on a com-
munal basis. The
Duchess set about the
task of asserting her
family’s actual owner-
ship—in stubborn cases
by wholesale destruc-
tion of cottages. The
present Duke, her great-
grandson, is the largest
private owner of land in the U.K. to-day.
Canada and Australia benefited too;
hundreds of dispossessed Scots emigrated,
and they did much towards establishing
those two then infant colonies.
* * * St
“Thermos”: Like “H.A.L.” (B.
20/10/’37), my first years at work were
not wasted. I was in a hardware and
crockery store. A woman customer
wanted a dinner service, but it had to be
“plain white.” She insisted the only set
for her was a special service we had on
display, but unfortunately it sported a
gold edging. “Could we obtain the same
set without the gold?” The boss said
“Yes,” doubled the price (“special order,
etc.”) and delivered the identical service
the following day—in between times the
gold edging had been removed with fine
pumice-stone and metho. Other things
being equal, “gold edge” is always more
expensive than “plain white.”
* . „* . ... * T * ,
Megaptera : Add to Will Lawsons
whaling terms (B. 20/10/’37) “bolting,’" .
when a struck whale sheers off on either
bow; “tinning,” when humpbacks knock
off the barnacles or make love, thereby
providing steamer passengers with the
“whale and thresher fight” thrill; and
“We’re taking no chances. The Water’s prettyt deep at the six furlongs.”
“lobtailing,” when a whale smacks its tail
on the water either in response to a har-
poon or as the prelude to a crash dive.
There were no harpooners in the old
Australian and M.L. whaling ships—they
were “boatsteerers.” One Copping, mate
of the barque Emu, whaling out of
Hobart in 1849, is still on record at the
Mitchell Library regarding “My boat-
steerer. .. .not striking the whale suffi-
ciently hard for the irons to hold.” There
were no harpoons—just “irons.” Towing
the dead whale back to the ship was a
“drag,” and sensible mates took a bottle
of rum along to put a bit of zip into
tired crews on a long drag.
* * * *
“D.A.”: Beaverbrook, London’s other
newspaper magnate, has been explaining
lately “Why I Want Another 600,000
Readers for the ‘Daily Express.’ ” Extra
sales to that number would carry circu-
lation above 3,000,000 a day. His Lord-
ship claims as “Express” victories the
abandonment of Freetrade in favor of
Protection and the throwing overboard
of the U.S.A. debt-settlement scheme and
the gold standard, and avers that his
paper has been opposed to “false public
parsimony and national wage cuts.” The
next object is “splendid isolation.”
We persist in our plea for detachment
of Britain from Continental quarrels; we
put forward unremitting argument that
Britain is not the outpost of Europe, but
the heart of the British Empire; we point
out that in reality this country now faces
the Dominions and the United States in
common interests, and no longer looks
over the troubled lands beyond the English
Channel.
The policy seems to satisfy “2,407,180
readers every day.”
* * * *
“Larrakeah”: A combination lock
guards the food and petrol cached on the
emergency landing ground at Cape Four-
croy on the s.-e. side of Bathurst Island.
The combination is chiselled out in dots
and dashes just above the lock. It might
be a good idea for those pilots on
regular runs, but some day these stores
might be required by a grounded flier
who can’t read Morse.
* # * *
“FK fa.”: Curious, perhaps disturb-
ing, results are likely from the Law
Reform Act passed in England in 1934,
since adopted in M.L. Previously
causes of personal action died with
either of the parties to it. The new law
preserves a deceased person’s right of
action, and also makes his estate liable to
personal actions incurred during the de-
ceased’s life. In an English case, the
estate of a doctor was sued for profes-
sional negligence and £5OOO damages
awarded—decision sustained on appeal.
In the first M.L. case of the kind, the de-
fendant admitted negligence in an acci-
dent which caused the death of a boy
of years. The jury assessed the value
of his expectation of life at £l5OO.
“Dwt.”: L. R. Menzie, discoverer of
the Lady Shenton, Menzies (W.A.) (B.
27 /10/’37), was born in Baltimore
, T tc a , , . „ ,
(U - S -A ) an dsP= n t two years °n the Rand
anc * £ iv . e ln Maoriland before landing m
W.A. in 1890. When Dunn found his
Wealth of Nations Menzie had just
returned to Perth from nearly three
fruitless years on the Murchison.
Backed by a city syndicate, he went
out once more, accompanied by J. E.
MacDonald. Four weeks later the
Lady Shenton and Florence were
pegged ; H. J. Saunders, M.L.C., after-
wards Mayor of Perth, floated the
former for £160,000 and the latter for
£120,000. Menzie, whose health was
poor, left W.A. shortly afterwards —in
1896.
JJ: * * *
“Venturino”: My copy of “Waltzing
Matilda” (B. 20/19/’37), published by
Allan and Co. and arranged by Thomas
Wood, has the plain statement: “Words
by A. B. Paterson, music by Marie
Cowan.” There is also a paragraph from
Wood’s book Cobbers telling how, when
Paterson was staying at Robert McPher-
son’s station, Dagworth:
They were driving into Winton one day,
in the buggy, along with McPherson’s sister
and Jack Lawton, the drover.. ..On the
way they passed a man carrying a swag.
“That’s what we call ‘Waltzing Matilda’ •
in these parts,” said McPherson, and
“Banjo” Paterson was so struck with the
phrase that he got a piece of paper and
wrote the verses there and then. When
they got to Winton, his sister, who was a
bit of a musician, wrote the tune, and they
sang it that night.
Whose sister was it? I always under-
stood that it was Paterson’s, but the par.
might mean McPherson’s sister.
* * * *
“Nicht Wahr”: The chanting of ‘Wind-
sor, Vindsor” by a Berlin crowd does not
at all “suggest that the Teuton prole-
tariat are still a little confused.... about
Vs and Ws” (B. 20/10/’37). “W” is pro-
nounced in German as “v,” and “v” as
“f,” so that “Vindsor” for “Windsor”
was quite natural to the Berlin crowd.
“Rocket”: On view in Martin-place
during Sydney’s forthcoming celebra-
tions will be the first engine used on
N.S.W. railways, ex its permanent rest-
ing-place in the Technological Museum.
Charles Cowper formed the first rail-
way company in 1848, with £lOO,OOO
capital in £5 shares. The co. was to
construct and operate a line connecting
Sydney with Parramatta, or, more cor-
rectly, a part of present-day Granville.
The first sod was turned by Mrs. Stewart,
Governor Fitzroy’s daughter, on July 3,
1850. The co. met with trouble from
the first —the gold rushes brought short-
age of labor. Before the short link
between the two towns was forged
five years had elapsed, and the Govern-
ment had been forced to step in and
finish the job itself. The first train left
Sydney for Parramatta on September 26,
1855 ; it was divided into three classes,
fares 45., 3s. and 2s. The run took 45
minutes non-stop.
RAIN.
In barren dust, in soil grown hard and dry,
There cling the sapless fingers of the trees;
These wait in fixed-eyed silence till they die,
Wait till they die, wait for the minstrelsies,
Wait for the rain,
Wait for the singing rain,
Await the delicious laughter of the rain.
The swollen clouds, with thunder massed
between,
Ripped with the lightning, flung by the
mounting wind
To sullen chaos, angered by sun unseen;
These hug their fever, sucked to the bitter
rind,
Then burst in rain,
Burst in tempestuous rain,
Burst in heart-easing laughter of the rain.
Grey skies weigh down in one small dome of
lead;
Dull gloom the flowers, and their faint scent
is gone;
The very roses at our lips are dead;
Pleasureless fall the voices drained of tone:
Till falls the rain,
Falls the sleep-giving rain,
Falls the forgetful laughter of the rain.
After the rain, green fields and wind and sun
Sparkle upon the eyes that light again,
Tingle the feet, tickle us into fun,
Sweep through our limbs, and mock the sober
brain
To chase the rain.
After the glorious rain,
After tumultuous laughter of the rain.
W.A.
V. WILLIAMS.


*
My throat is grateful for
that extra touch of quality
99
10 for 9 *
20 for 16
ARE MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS
0383
GENE R A T
THIS
CIGARETTE
TIPPED
POLITICAL POINTS
Little Hunter, the Assistant Minister,
has a remarkable election record. Since
the death of Jim Page, who was the
member for 20 years, Hunter has stood
eight times for Maranoa, and has on each
occasion been thousands of votes to the
bad on Saturday night and thousands of
votes to the good when the outback boxes
came in. Randolph Bedford was so sure
it was all up with Hunter that he re-
signed a safe Assembly seat (Warrego)
to have ago at the small accountant; but
it was no good.
Stacey is in again for Adelaide. He
had three Labor opponents, and their
combined total exceeded his score by
5000, but supporters of Yates and
George couldn’t forget that Bardolph
was a Lang man.
At this distance the voting in West-
ralia looks rather like a demand for
new blood. Gregory and Prowse, whose
majorities fell, are respectively 77 and
66. Lynch is 70, Pearce 67. Hitherto
Westralia hasn’t objected to following
old men. Chandler, who led them to
the secession referendum, and Franklin,
the then Lord Mayor, one of Chandler’s
assistants, were in the eighties.
Before the election Curtin was the
, centre of double-dissolution talk ; now
it is attributed to Lyons. If he suggests
it to the coalition, he will find it a 95
p.c. non-election party; in any case, the
country wouldn’t tolerate an early elec-
tion. Considering that he has won only
two Tasmanian seats and lost six, Lyons
will be lucky if he remains P.M.
Mr. Garden, now a “tariff consultant” ;
Mr. Oscar Schreiber, secretary of the
Union Secretaries ; Mr. O’Reilly, of the
Hairdressers, and Mr. Orr, of the Miners’
Federation, say Mr. Lang will have to
go. Mr. Lang replies, through his news-
paper, that Mr. Schreiber is not even a
member of the party and was not heard
of during the election.
Mr. Orr was in the election —as a Com-
munist, urging Mr. Lyons’s policy of col-
lective security.
Thus they start again on Labor’s grand
sweet Unity song, and any comrade may
join in.
Douglas Credit’s surprising vote in
Wide Bay (Q.) is attributed, not to any
widespread conversion of electors to the
exploded doctrines of the Major, but to
rampant sectarianism; and Randolph
Bedford blames sectarianism for his
failure to unseat Hunter. Randolph,
it seems, was called a Catholic in one
district and an atheist in another.
Nicholls, the Douglas Credit man,
pleaded that he wasn’t responsible for
the “How to Vote Protestant” cards and
cars, and the secretary of the Ministers’
Fraternal at Maryborough complacently
admits that his concern was. Hunter’s
reply is that he has never raised the
sectarian issue, and that Maranoa was
never in danger of going to Bedford.
If Pearce loses in Westralia, it will be
his first licking. Also Hughes will be
the one undefeated pioneer Common-
wealth member still on deck. There
were many finer physical specimens in
that first Parliament, and younger, too ;
Billy—small, deaf, dyspeptic—has out-
lasted them all.
Four more of Australia’s wandering
boys are back: McKerihan, of the N.S.W.
Rural Bank ; Dennis, of the N.S.W. Gov-
ernment railways ; N.S.W. Main Roads
Commissioner Newell; and Brown, of
the Post Office. Mr. Brown returned con-
vinced that “Australia is abreast of the
rest of the world in communications” —
he means charges. Mr. McKerihan had
to spray himself with eau-de-Cologne
when caught in Russian crowds. Mr.
Newell was deeply impressed with the
absence of kerbstone pumps abroad.
Mr. Dennis is sure air-conditioning
wouldn’t suit N.S.W. train-travellers.
Taxpayers foot all bills.
Hornets have been buzzing about the
ears of the N.S.W. Railway Department’s
traffic manager since he blithered that
“the Australian public, with its liking
for fresh air, wouldn’t tolerate air-con-
ditioned trains.”. A Sydney “Sun” man
released the nastiest one—the gentleman’s
own offices are air-conditioned.
Remark of a contributor to a too-old-
at-forty discussion:
In the Sydney “Morning Herald” a few
days ago there was an advertisement for a
chief executive which stated “No man over
35 need apply.”
Name and address withheld; but the
A.L.P. is suspected. Lang will be 61 in
December.
The Chinese seamen who refused to
carry Australian flour and gypsum to
Japan in a British ship because they
were afraid of something or other, or
because Red fools persuaded them that
a strike would “help China,” or Russia,
A DIP INTO THE FUTURE.
U.A.P. headquarters, Sydney, learns that Mr. Lang has been deposed.
are still somewhere in N.S.W. By Aus-
tralian law they are prohibited immi-
grants, and they will have to be grabbed
presently and sent back to China, but in
this matter the Lyons Government is ex-
hibiting its customary inertia. The Silks-
worth Chinese are not the only seamen
who have been sacrificed in these parts
by Red fools. Hundreds of Australian
seamen had the same bitter experience,
and some of them were left permanently
on the beach.
Mr. Monks, of Melbourne Trades
Hall, sees in the result of the Common-
wealth elections a mandate for the intro-
duction of the 40-hour week. Mr.
Monks is one of those persons who find
it dead easy to believe what they want
to believe. France, Italy and the U.S.A.
have tried the 40-hour week, and it is no
mere unhappy coincidence that each has
struck trouble in large quantities. In
Maoriland a. boom in exports palliated
the effect of the 40-hour week —only
partly introduced—for a time, but the
cries of manufacturers and factory hands
unemployed or working short time can
no longer be ignored.
Australian butter has touched 1525. per
cwt. in London. At the beginning of
February it was 87s. per cwt. The be-
ginning of February? Wasn’t it then that
a horde of politicians started telling the
Australian nation that if it didn’t vote the
inter-State Freetrade section out of the
Constitution so that the butter board
might charge what it- liked (of course,
they didn’t put it that way), the cow-
farmers would all go bung?
A few days after the Langsters had
hushed their dirges about the miserable
lot of the Australian worker, the Statis-
tician remarked that Australian Savings
Bank deposits had reached an all-time
high level of £232,000,000—£7,000,000
more than was tucked away in the boom
year of 1929. The increase since last
January has been over £8,000,000.
The “news” from China seems to be
of a piece with the “news” from Spain.
On Wednesday it was to the effect that
Japan was “disappointed with the slow
progress of the offensive at Shanghai” ;
it had lasted into the third month “and
no more than a foothold on the banks of
the Whangpoo had been secured.” The
very next morning it had to be admitted
that the Chinese defending Shanghai had
set fire to as much of the place as they
could burn in a hurry, being in full
retreat.
In the foreign-news department there
are plain and fancy liars and liars whose
lies are “reliably reported,” “learned on
unimpeachable authority” and “ascer-
tained from trustworthy sources.” The
last are the worst.
The Senate election has shown Vic-
toria how many votes its Dunstan Gov-
ernment really represents. Presumably
the three victims wouldn’t have let their
names go on the Victorian C.P. ticket
without the assurance that they would get
every vote the Victorian C.P. could
command, and all they have got so far
is 65,000. Labor, with more than seven
times that number, is playing second
fiddle to Dunstan, but it is too out-
rageous a joke to last.
Bruce, who has been in London for
five years, is to be reappointed for an-
other five. He is the first High Com-
missioner to get a second term. Friends
of Lyons, who four years ago were dis-
tracted at the thought that Bruce might
return to Australia, agree that he
deserves it.
Words of wisdom from the Queensland
Industry Bureau:
The present system provides for drought
relief by getting into debt and working
off •he cost of the drought afterwards.
It is difficult to convince the farmer that
he might, with advantage, work off the cost
of a drought beforehand.
And it will continue to be difficult so
long as there are politicians ready with
the persuasion that the Government will
do everything.
“D.N.”: Finance Minister Nash has
assured Maorilanders that they aren’t as
heavily taxed as the people of S. Aus-
tralia. The family man on £5OO a year—•
man, wife and two children —pays £l2
9s. Bd. income tax in Maoriland, and
£22 os. Bd. in S. Australia. So said Mr.
Nash, but he neglected to explain that
S.A. has no relief tax and Maoriland
has. That relief tax adds £l7 13s. 4d. to
his family man’s income tax of £l2 9s. Bd.
Professor Roberts, of Sydney Univer-
sity, has written a book, The House That
Hitler Built. As summarised by the
cableman, this is his central argument:
If Hitler persists in the policies he has
enunciated, he will plunge Europe into war,
and if he abandons them he can no longer
maintain his position in Germany.
So he’s a goner either way. Hitler’s own
statement to the foreign journalists who
attended the Nazi rally at Nuremberg is
worth quoting:
Germany has no desire to do anything
against anyone, and no one can do any-
thing against Germany. We are so much
occupied with domestic matters that we
have no time for senseless adventures.
Professors, of course, have no time for
Hitler.
N.S.W. Railway Department has been
caught so short of trucks for the
carriage of live meat that stock sales
have had to be abandoned and dead-
meat prices have gone up. The official
excuse is that the Government hasn’t
provided enough loan money. Actually,
it is shovelling out between two and
three millions a year, free of interest.
From the beginning of October wool and
livestock freight-rates were up 10 per
cent., so stockowners are paying through
the nose for inferior service.
J. A. Lyons, as he appears nowadays
to the Melbourne “Herald” stable, which
supported conscription:
He risked his whole future by leading
the fight against the popular cause. He
cast everything aside to fight conscription
in a State where the minority cause was
subjected to considerable persecution.
Persecution be blowed!
But Mr. Lyons was a sadly disillusioned
man long before he left the Labor party.
Devoted son of Tasmania, he had begun
to lose his faith in political Labor when,
as Premier of his native State, he saw it
the victim, year after year in the ’twenties,
of wicked shipping and waterside strikes.
The shipping strikes began in 1919. If
Joe denounced them at any time before
he became Labor M.H.R. for Wilmot in
1929, the circumstance has been for-
gotten. But he did denounce Senator
Ogden for leaving the Labor party
several years before Joseph left it.
[J. E. Webb and Cecil Mann, 252 George-
street, Sydney, sign anything requiring a signa-
ture in this issue.]


THE DEEP-BREATHER.


The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Incorporated in South Australia with Limited Liability.
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Capital Authorised .. ..£1,250,000
Capital Issued .. .. 1,250,000
Capital Paid Up £1,250,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 1,000,000
(Used partly in business and partly
in Government and approved
Securities.)
Reserve Liability of Shareholders ..£1,250,000
Also 107 Branches and Agencies in S'outh Australia.
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.3.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad
collected and proceeds remitted. All usual
banking business transacted.
long ENGINE LIFE
DEPENDS DN SPARKING PLUCS
m
%
jrt L,I L
ion*
rt Chart
O
Champions
-YOU CAN DEPEND ON
Experience shows that an engine kept free from faulty
ignition is sure to last longer and give better and more
economical service. Profit from the experience of
others install new Champions every year.
An Empire product made in Windsor, Canada
Obtainable at all leading
automotive supply dealers
34
PERSONAL ITEM S
R. T. Ball was father of the N. S.
Wales Assembly when he died last week
at 80 —he had been a member 36 years.
A politician of the older school, cour-
teous, meticulous in his work, Ball was
born in Sydney and spent his youth at
Rooty Hill, later going into business as
an engineer at Goulburn (N.S.W.). As
a Minister, he served under Holman,
Fuller and Bavin. His engineering train-
ing tinged his political record: he was
responsible for the passing of the Act
to build the Sydney Harbor Bridge, and
the George’s River bridge, Walsh Island
dockyard and the first stretch of con-
crete highway in N. S. Wales also stand
to his credit.
W. O. (“Billy”) Richards, who represents
Australia’s second-oldest advertising-
service agency, was born in Newtown,
Sydney, when it was a sorghum field and
dairy farm. Richards was orphaned at
11, and started work at once. He drifted
early into the selling and publishing
business, joined The Weston Co. in 1906
An Advertising Veteran.
—Harry J. Weston and Claude Wilmott
had started it —and bought it out two
years later. One of Richards’s most vital
recollections concerns his association with
the “Forum,” a periodical that was
something of an inspiration, as well as
an antidote to the Communistic dope of
the 1920’5. It was a headache to the
publisher just the same —rather like The
Bulletin’s “Lone Hand.” Ex-president
of more than one advertising association,
Richards at 62 knows the game from
every angle. His Australian Advertisers’
Manual and Newspaper Directory, 1923-
4-5, had a world-wide sale. He is chair-
man of the group of agents handling the
N. S. Wales jubilee publicity.
They can’t kill them in the North.
F. W. Cuthbert is 80 this year. When
he had just enough copper to jingle in
his pocket he struck it rich near Croy-
don (N.Q.) in 1898. That mine was the
Golden Gate, which produced nearly
£500,000 worth of gold, Later, he put his
name on the map at Mt. Cuthbert, made
a second fortune on Misima in Eastern
Papua. Now, following his dictum that
there are still opportunities for young
men in the Far North, he is back at
Croydon implementing a scheme to
open up some of the old reefs.
lan Munro, 17, who leases the Talasea
Government station, about 57 acres,
from which he turns off a couple of
tons of copra a month, is easily New
Guinea’s youngest planter. He has eight
native laborers, has built his own smoke
drier, his house and his natives’ quarters.
Con Hickey, whose death in Mel-
bourne, at 72, is reported, was one of
the outstanding figures of the Australian
game of football. A great player for
Fitzroy and the State in his younger days,
he was honorary secretary of Fitzroy for
18 years, and in 1910 was appointed sec-
retary of the Australian National Foot-
ball Council, after holding the position
of president for some years. The great
influence he exercised on the national
game was always for good, and the
council will be fortunate to find another
secretary so devoted to its welfare.
When North Queensland remembered
a few days ago that the Hughenden-
Townsville railway had been open 50
years the only survivor of those who took
part in the opening ceremony proved to
be James Cole, the guard. He carried
three passengers on his first trip. Cole
rose to be North Queensland traffic
manager, is still hale and hearty and
has two sons in the service.
Dead in London, Andrew Williamson,
the dour Glaswegian chairman of the E.,
S. and A. Bank, of Australian Estates
and the London board of Mt. Lyell and
the long-established A.P. Co. William-
son had been settled firmly in London
since 1893, and was on the boards of
the Hudson Bay Railway Co. and several
African concerns. A Scottish realist of
the old type, Williamson was a thorn in
the flesh of experimenting Australian
politicians. He was to the front in all
taxation fights, and particularly in that
against double income fax.
Twenty years ago, fleeing from the
wrath of a Perth Esplanade crowd whom
he had harangued against conscription,
Don Cameron bolted into the neighbor-
ing Weld Club, Westralia’s counterpart
of the Carlton, and took refuge in a
gigantic meat safe. The late Chief Jus-
tice McMillan was one of the startled
clubmen ; he referred to the incident on
one of the few occasions on which he
was known to unbend on the Bench.
Now Don Cameron looks like being
elected a Victorian Senator, though the
salary won’t begin till July 1. Most
amiable of doctrinaires, he harbored no
grudge against his Perth pursuers, but the
affair may have convinced him that there
was no future for him in Westralian poli-
tics. His hatred of war didn’t prevent
him from doing his bit against the Boers.
The Northern Territory election held
on Oct. 30 produced the usual spate of
candidates. A. M. Blain, the sitting
member, is a surveyor, and in the last
House was the only M.P. who fought
throughout the war in the ranks. He is
a son of one of Queensland’s best-
known old-time drovers and a descendant
of the second free white child born in
Australia. Against him were Robert
Toupein, the Labor candidate, who
polled a larger primary vote, though he
is likely to lose much ground when pref-
erences are counted. He is organiser to
the North Australian Workers’ Union.
There were two independents—R. Hughes-
Jones, a southern journalist who settled
in the Territory three years ago, and Bob
Nelson, who held the seat for 12 years
before his defeat at last election. He
is in business at Tennant’s Creek.
The Queensland branch has already de-
cided to recommend Joseph Doniger,
chief instructor to the Kirra Lifesaving
Club, for the R.S.L.S. Association’s silver
medal, its highest award. Doniger swam
out to bring in one of the victims of last
week’s shark attack at Coolangatta.
E. A. Irwin, who retired last year after
54 years with the Hobart “Mercury,” is
dead. He began his service in the days
of seven-year apprenticeships, flat-bed
presses and hand setting, and finished as
head printer. In his youth he was well
known in Tasmanian cricket circles.
Arthur Daniel, a veteran Anglican
choir-singer just dead in Adelaide, had
an unusual sort of fame. At the end of
the century, when “The Mikado” was
booming, someone wrote a “Tit-Willow”
parody in which the fluting call of the
magpie took the place of that refrain.
Daniel took up the song, got the bird-
imitation down to a fine art of realism,
and earned the title of “Magpie.”
“Motu” on a compatriot:
Born in a country town in Nelson, M.L.,
Ernest Rutherford (B. 27/10/’37) was one of a
pioneering couple’s large family. He was help-
ing in their flax mill at an age when most
children are still interested in marbles. Later
he worked on the Rutherford farm at Foxhill,
where he developed his sturdy physique. There
was little ready cash in the Rutherford family,
and even provision of clothes and books pre-
sented problems. But Ernest won his way
through Nelson College and Canterbury Uni-
versity, and it was Maoriland’s 1851 Exhibi-
tion Scholarship that took him to Cambridge
in 1894 for the real beginning of his science
career and his long association with the Caven-
dish Laboratory.
No two glances would be needed to
determine that James Hendry, newly-
elected president of the N.S.W. Manu-
facturers’ Chamber, was a Scotchman.
A Lanarkshire native, he went to U.S.A.
after graduating as an electrical engineer,
and worked on some of the biggest
engineering jobs of the day in the States
and Canada. In Australia, he was a
JAMES HENDRY, N.S.W. Manu-
facturers’ Presidents.
pioneer, and is managing director of the
Electrical Control and Engineering Co.,
a past-president' of the N.S.W. Electrical
Manufacturers’ Association and of the
N.S.W. Electrical Advisory Committee.
The Australian - Official War History
singles out A. H. Cobby as of the
most daring spirits in the A.1.F.” Paf"
ticularly during the most trying period
of 1918, he was a terror to German aerial
squadrons on the western front. On the
Lys in July, 1918, he once tackled four
enemy Fokkers, pumping 150 rounds
into one of them at 50ft. range. Then he
calmly went down to see what had hap-
pened to his victim with three triplanes
in pursuit. Before the war Cobby was
a bank clerk. When the scrap ended
“A Daring Spirit.”
he* was a captain and flight commander
with the D.S.O. and D.F.C., with two
bars for the latter. He became a per-
manent member of the R.A.A.F., and
now ranks as Wing Commander. In
his spare time he is a keen fisherman.
James Cowan, dead in Perth (W.A.)
at 89, had been out of the public eye
since he retired from the Stipendiary
Bench in 1914 after 26 years’ service.
In the ’seventies he was clerk to the
W.A. Legislative Council. His wife, who
died some time ago, was the first woman
member of the W.A. Assembly.
An unusual racing partnership is that
of J. C. Bendrodt and J. W. C. Monder,
owners of the neatly-named filly Gay
Romance, by Gay Lothario-Beneficiary.
Both have been figures in the world of
ballroom dancing for years, Bendrodt
chiefly on the managerial side—he had
the Palais Royal, Sydney, and the Troca-
dero —and Monder as a winner of danc-
ing competitions. Bendrodt trains the
flying filly; he also trained Grand
Mogul, a good winner at Randwick. He
served in New Guinea with the first ex-
peditionary force, and was the best boxer
on his troopship.
Professor W. J. Woodhouse, just dead,
came to Sydney Uni. 29 years ago in a
day when Greek was still essential for
entry into Oxford and when it was almost
impossible to win an Australian major
classical scholarship without it. He was
appointed in continuance of the tradition
which had brought Professor Badham,
one of the world’s leading Greek scholars,
to Sydney a generation earlier, and he
lived up to the University’s previous
record. Educated at Queen’s College,
Oxford, he took a first in classics, worked
under Gardner in the school of classical
archaeology, went to Athens on excava-
tion work as a Newton student and
Craven Fellow and wrote his AEtolia,
published in 1897. His several books
are standard works, and he was a noted
authority on ancient Greek history.


Fin T NSi LEI
because first in .
*
4
A
i
«
J
A
m
E
l
i
%
i
■
1
a
i
A
r\
More people ride on
than on any other tyres
It’s always good going
on Goodyears
Goodyears are Australia’s first-choice
tyres for safety, for long wear, for
traction and dependability. To be
confident and carefree, ride on Goodyear
Tyres, with the thick, flat, wide, tough,
road-gripping G-3 tread.


ABORIGINALITIES
BLACK & WHITE WHISKY "PLURRY GOOD!"
“Rom Ney”: The placing of a merino’s
head on new Australian shillings is a
poor tribute to the humble, patient
animal that has been the greatest single
factor in the growth of this country.
The merino has conquered enemies in
the way of drought, disease and neglect
that would have finished any other beast.
It has been dogged, dagged, dipped,
drafted, docked, shorn, starved, kicked,
cuffed, cursed, mauled, murdered and
manhandled for the last 130 years ; yet
it has multiplied and increased, yielded
its wool and patiently carried the nation
on its back. Its reward is to be its effigy
on a deener.
* * * *
“G. 8.”: Is there a better wild plant for
blossom than the common heath ( Epacris
impressa) so well known in the hill
country of southern Australia? In favor-
able situations it flowers prolifically for
half the year, and for hardly a month is
without some blossom. In the Gram-
pians Range (Vic.) there is a great
wealth of bloom from April to October,
and many of the plants grow into shrubs
five and six feet high ; the flowers are
mostly red and pink, with a blending of
white.
* * * *
“Half Choke”: That yarn about the
chap who scattered chilled shot on the
dance floor (B. 20/10/’37) recalls an
English shooting incident'. The host of
a party shooting grouse on the moors
found himself missing everything in sight.
At lunch he whispered his loader to go to
the game cart while everyone else was
busy and sneak a number of birds to be
produced as his after the afternoon shoot.
All went as was planned, and when the
host showed up with a fine bag con-
gratulations were thick. One doubting
Thomas who had spotted his host’s vile
performance in the morning was dubious.
Picking up one of the birds he said,
“Why, damn it, this bird is stone cold
instead of warm like the others.” “Stone
cold?” hissed the impostor. “Don’t you
know I always shoot with chilled shot?”
* * * *
“Ursa”: No “sweeping claim” about
my statement that many varieties of
bears dwell in countries where snow
is never seen (B. 20/10/’37). To take
only one instance, the statement is cor-
rect of the whole of India except the ex-
treme northern section. It is a pretty
extensive area, and in places like the
Nilghiris is, or used to be, lousy with
bears.
“Gryllus”: If “M 8” (B. 20/10/’37)
wants to see bears without snow he
should take a trip through the Kanara
Forest between Goa and Bombay. I
did it once on a pushbike, and saw more
than 20 black and brown bears in 150
miles. Only one old lady showed any
signs of being nasty, but when I rang the
bell at her she dropped all side and
bolted into the undergrowth. Forest
officers told me that natives were quite
frequently clawed by bears met sud-
denly on jungle paths, but that, unless
attacked and wounded, the animals
seemed afraid of persons in European
clothing. The foot-shifting habit, mostly
in evidence when a bear is on its hind legs,
and hence putting an undue weight on
feet which are designed for quadruped,
not biped, use, is the origin of “bear-
dancing,” famous in Europe for cen-
turies, and in Asia for many more cen-
turies. On all-fours bears are much less
restless. The trainers use a hot floor,
which accentuates the natural tendency
of the performers.
* * V
“Billy See”: “Murrungurry’s” advice
on how to catch a wallaby in a pit-trap
(B. 6/10/’37) certainly adds to the gaiety
of these columns. Every bush kid knows
that the way to catch them, alive or dead,
is with a snare. Select a springy sapling
close beside the “run.” Denude of twigs,
etc. Bend over parallel with run to within
two or three feet of ground. Cut
notch on top side near tip. Select a long
thin stick with natural notch at end.
Sharpen other end and drive into ground
so that a small, pointed trigger-stick will
fit between natural notch and notch in
sapling, holding latter bent. Attach thin
line or wire to trigger stick and stretch
taut across run at about two feet from
ground. Attach strong cord noose to tip
of sapling and spread noose well out on
run. Wallaby strikes trigger string, re-
leases sapling, which whips up noose,
catching animal around leg or body. Two
nooses can be used, one ahead of the
other, to make trap dead certain. Have
caught dozens of ’roos and wallabies that
way, generally swung by a leg and
alive-oh.
* * * *
“C.V.S.”: The little metallic-voiced
white-fronted chat is the master actor of
all birds that feign a broken wing to
lure enemies away from nest or young.
Fluttering along the ground with trailing
wing within 2ft. of man or dog, and
attracting attention by its cries, the bird’s
performance is so distressfully urgent that
it seems unsympathetic not to fall for the
lure, and one feels impelled to follow as
a tribute to the convincing acting.
* * * *
“Bandy”: I’ll admit sawmillers and
miners are hardy old birds; but if I was
looking for centenarians among bush
workers I’d dig in among the fencers
and. well-sinkers. Most of those fellows
are hardy drinkers, smokers, livers,
workers and swearers; but, by the living
Jingo, they can put the years behind
them. On the other side of the sheet I’d
put horsemen as being those with the
shortest span of life. They mightn’t die
early ; but they give up the saddle young.
It’s supposed to be easy work and only
a playtime job to ride a horse round
among sheep. It must take some toll —
they don’t last at it.
* *
“Tid’apa”: Unfortunately that pretty
little story of the wedge-tailed eagle’s
playfulness (B. 20/10/’37) is all bulls-
wool. It was more likely that w.-t. junior
was being given a lesson in picking up
prey while on the wing. Instinct alone is
not sufficient to provide an incentive to
attack, and so all predatory birds must
undergo a course of training. The young
frigate, for instance, must even be taught
to fly, and the fond parents entice him
to the edge of a cliff by the promise of a
tasty morsel. Should he be reluctant
to make the initial plunge, Ma shuffles
along behind him and gives him a push
over the ledge to instil confidence. He
is then taken out to sea and taught how
to rob gannets of the results of their
honest labors. The curriculum embraces
the catching of fish in mid-air, and both
parents spend many hours patiently
schooling him.
$ * % s * c
“Cherub”: The spread of mistletoe
through our northern forests has been
attributed to various causes, the blame
mostly being laid on small animals and
birds; but it appears that the human
race is, as usual, responsible. Experi-
ments in Queensland suggest that mistle-
toe’s worst enemy is the possum, and
the spread of the pest is due to slaughter
of the little creatures. Possums placed in
the infected areas eagerly gobbled the
seeds and young shoots of the mistletoe,
and even burrowed into the trees to get
at the roots.
* * * o
“Scalper”: Odd koala-skins might find
buyers in Queensland, but no one but
an idiot would store them up against the
declaration of an open season (B.
20/10/’37). As anyone would know who
has been in the game, stale skins of any
Australian fur-bearing animal meet with
a very poor demand, and stored bearskins
would soon be badly affected by weevils.
Those who account for koalas these days
do so for the purpose of tanning the
skins themselves for making into rugs.
“In the King's name , you stand hack and let 'em 'ave a fair go."
Nature is thinning out the native bears,
and more die from natural causes in
one day than are shot in 12 months in
Queensland.
* ... * *
“No. 1”: As the “bloke who advo-
cated” sleeping in hammocks (B.
20/10/’37), I hasten to assure “The 0.D.”
that the “suburban backyard” in Which
the idea has worked covers the face of
most of N.S.W. Out west there may not
be too many trees, but one end of the
contrivance will always hitch up to a lone
stick and the other to a pair of crossed
saplings stayed to the ground, where it
is impossible to adopt the easier plan of
hitching between a tent post and a
vehicle or under a wagon. The conten-
tion that trees are everywhere too close
together to swing a hammock on the
coast rather ridicules stockmen who have
been mustering at full gallop between
those close-set sticks for over a century.
I’ll admit that your true outbacker likes
to sleep on the ground, but the point of
my par. was a suggestion that he should
give up these conservative ways and try
something sensible for a change. A man
can sling a hammock anywhere in the
same time as it takes to scratch and ad-
just a decent hip-hole.
* * * a
“Kerriki”: Which end does the bull-
ant sting with? I was always under the
impression from popular talk and watch-
ing their war dance that they did the
damage with their ferocious-looking
nippers forward until a specimen dived
on to my mate and nipped him with all
the thoroughness characteristic of the
breed. The victim yelled and pulled the
biter apart. The abdomen sailed over in
my direction, landed on my chest and in-
flicted the characteristic and painful
“bite” which every picnicker knows. If
some Aboliar would care to sacrifice a
little skin in the cause of science, I would
be happy to note the result of his re-
searches.
* * *
“Dimon”: A vehicle that deserves a
place in next year’s celebrations is the
two-wheeled bullock-dray, the ancestral
carriage that marked out George-street,
Sydney, and thousands of highways and
byways through the bush to the remotest
parts. It went with the explorers into
the unknown, and hundreds of pioneers
went on their honeymoon and to their
new homes in it —perched on the dun-
nage with the cat and the pet magpie.
The old contraption is still common on
some selections, for no conveyance suits
better for roughing in tfye bush. It is
generally the most dilapidated vehicle on
the place, loose and noisy in all its bolts
and joints, and the team is not uncom-
monly a mixture of stags, steers, bulls
and cows. I have seen teams that were
half bullocks and half horses.
* * * v
“Ziv” : Hard-working prospectors still
occasionally “strike it lucky” on the fields.
Recently three fossickers to whom a
prospecting area in the Mulgabbie (W.A.)
district had been granted under the Gov-
ernment sustenance scheme had such a
find. Having dug three tons of stone
yielding an ounce to the ton, they de-
cided to keep digging whilst waiting for
the carter to take the stone to the Yarri
State battery. Before he turned up they
took out another 4\ ions. At the battery
the parcel went 3440 z. over the plates,
In addition they dollied 2330 z., their lull
return for the 1\ tons being 5770 z. Sur-
rounded by deserted workings, the Mul-
Babbie district is famous for its rich
patches ’
**.* . * .
Curate s Egg : The dugong has
bovine traits other than the herd-feeding
instinct (B. 13/10/’37). One is the secre-
lion of milk by the female. It resembles
the milk of other herbivorous animals,
except that it is more saline and has a
viscosity between that of the dairy animal
ar| d °f condensed milk. Actually the
dugong mother resembles her human
counterpart rather than Strawberry, for
she carries her young under a pro ec-
five flipper, especially when danger
threatens,
*
“Bray Rock : Tell Western (B.
13/10/’37) to try bleeding his tunny
directly he gets it aboard. Cut the blood-
vessels at the gill-junction, and also at
the sides of the tail, breaking the tail
across to promote free bleeding. Having
selected his cut, preferably, in a big fish,
a fillet above the lateral line half-way
along the body, let him or his missus
half-cook it in a steamer, and then grill,
fry or boil it. If it is the same tunny with
yellow fins that we have here in S.Q. he
won’t waste any more of it on fertiliser,
I was that kind of ignoramus till lately,
If “W.” is a fisherman, I d suggest he get
in touch with the secretary ol the Austra-
lian Fishermen’s League at 197 King-
street, Melbourne, and hear the latest re-
garding Australian tunny and their possi-
bilities in the market. Bleeding anc
steaming make all the difference.
THE ONLY THING.
The rain is pouring down outside, an’ I’m
cooped up with Jim,
Listenin’ to the dronin’ voice that is the worst
of him.
He’s tellin’ me that blasted tale “The Spectral
Kangaroo”;
The eighteenth time he’s tellin’ it—an’ what’s
a man to do?
I’ve thought of dongin’ him enough to send
him off to sleep;
But he’s just twice as old as me, an’ I’d be
pretty cheap.
You simply cannot shut him up—he likes to
talk an’ talk,
An’ it’s too wet to go outside an’ take a
flamin’ walk.
“The ghost was in the hut,” he says ... I
know what’s after that:
“A grey and ugly limpin’ thing shaped some-
think like a rat.”
Aw, cripes, I know it word for word. The rain
has got him bad,
For he keeps yappin’ on an’ on enough to send
you mad.
The pore old cow can’t help himself—his
memory’s goin’ fast;
At sixty-nine I s’pose a bloke lives in his mis-
spent past.
His mem’ry’s gone all right; an’ so the best a
man can do
Is listen to the rain an’ pray his own was goin’,
too.
N.S.W.
P.T.F.


“Old-timer”: The boss was having
lunch one hot January day. To the door
came William the Silent, an easygoing
station hand, who looked in, caught the
boss’s eye,* and retired abashed. A
minute or two later Bill peered in from
the other door, but the missus’s gaze fell
on him and his retreat was sudden.
About this time the boss remarked that
the day seemed to be getting hotter, if
that were possible. He pushed back from
the table, and was about to light his pipe
when the Silent bobbed in and said,
“Don’t waste a match, there’s a light out
here, boss!” Puzzled, the boss went to
the door. A mile-wide line of fire was
bearing down on the homestead from the
north-west! It transpired that the over-
seer had sent Bill to give the alarm, and
had urged him to break, it gently.
ifc >\i %
“Langshan”: “Salmon Gums” (B.
13/10/’37) will find that Muscovy ducks
can hatch and rear chicks successfully if
allowed to keep their own nests. Let
Mrs. Muscovy sit for a week before re-
placing her own eggs with hen eggs, and
be prepared to hand-brood the chicks, as
ducks mostly are not ready to leave the
nests in three weeks. Then give Gertie
another setting of hen eggs, and she will
graciously leave the nest with them when
they hatch and mother them as well as
any hen. A duck trying to coax chickens
to swim is just as funny as an excited
hen trying to call ducklings from the
water.
* ♦ $ %
“Laetitia”: I suggest that “K.S.’s”
erratically-performing wattle-birds (B.
13/10/ ’37) were suffering not from sun
but booze, the inspiration for the hilarity
apparently deriving from fermented
wattle-gum. Under the stimulus of mon-
soonal tropic heat, the nectar distilled
from certain flowers and shrubs in N.Q.
assumes alcoholic properties. Any doubts
as to this can be removed by watching
the debauched antics of honeyeaters in
blossom-time. Queer aerobatics, clumsy
flying and pronounced belligerency are
traits exhibited by these fowls on such
occasions, all of which are non-existent
at other seasons.
* * * He
“Mountain Devil”: A sense of chivalry
and protection still lives in the heart of
the insect world. I was resting under the
shade of a pine-tree when my foot sent a
loose stone crashing into the web of a
red-backed spider, killing several of the
young. The male spider, sharply sus-
pecting further murderous intentions,
moved rapidly across the web to his
mate, where he worked in frantic haste at
a web in which he completely encased
her, camouflaging her so that she hung
like a small grey stick from a single
thread. Then he retreated into hiding to
watch.
“R.W.D.”: A neighbor had a “tame”
dingo which, on account of its fondness
for poultry, he had to put on a chain.
Warrigal set to work, and, after a day’s
scratching, had made a hole deep enough
to conceal himself. Instead of eating
his rations he placed them, with apparent
altruism, on the mound of earth for the
fowls to eat, then retired to his trench.
To get at the free tucker the fowls had
to come within the radius of the chain.
A quick spring from ambush, a squawk
and some flying feathers, and Warrigal
retired to his trench to dine.
“Dingo”: Touching the origin of
dingoes, it is noteworthy that wolves,
coyotes, hyenas and other untamed
breeds of dog never bark at any stage
of their careers, invariably howling by
night. Full-grown dingoes share this
trait, but the pups, unable to muster up
the blood-curdling yell, yap and bark in
chorus in exactly the same manner as the
domesticated dog. Evidently barking is
a habit of which they have to be broken.
This seems to point to one of two conclu-
sions. Either the ancient ancestors of
the dingo wer£ domestic dogs gone wild,
or else the dingo is unique in the dog
world in this respect.
* * * *
“Stralia”: Where fences run into the
sea the larger sea-snakes frequently be-
come entwined in the netting. They try
to swim through, but finding themselves
too large in the middle double back
through the next hole in an effort to free
themselves. Thi,s may happen several
times, until the reptile is securely laced
"So it's a race you want!"
up. Frill-necked lizards occasionally
perish when the frill becomes meshed in
the rabbit-proof netting, as do blue-
tongues and the like by being caught
behind the forelegs. Land snakes, how-
ever, seem able to look after themselves
in this respect.
* * * *
“Salmon Gums”: Thought I knew
most of the winged parasites that operate
during the spring, but the one I struck
the other day dealing with a blowfly in
a Westralian orchard is a new one on
me. About an inch and a half overall,
body long* and thin, small head with a
single fang which probably carries a sting
and with which it administers the K. 0.,
six legs each about an inch long and
jointed in several places, and long,
narrow, gossamer wings. Color, orange
head, merging through grey to orange
again at the other end. It flew holding
the blowfly in its legs ; and from the busi-
nesslike way of handling it I’d back a
dozen of its species against all the crows
this side of the rabbit-proof fence. Name,
please?
* * * *
“Dougal”: These country blokes think
they’re the only ones who possess brainy
mongs. The other day the wife was
writing out her grocery order. “I don’t
know, Dougal,” she says, “but I feel
there’s something else 1 require and I
pan’t think what.” At this Pluto, our
“Can’t take it, eh?”
fox-Airedale, jumped up from the mat,
rushed outside and came back with a
marigold in his jaws. Placing this on
the floor he went over .to the cupboard
and brought out a bag of raisins. Tipping
one out beside the marigold he patted
himself on the chest and indicated first
the raisin and then the marigold. Several
times he repeated this before we tumbled
to it. Yes, that’s right! What the wife
wanted was self-raisin’ flour.
* * * *
“Scotia”: “Nugget” Michael has lost
his fondness for bacon and eggs. While
prospecting near Orbost (Vic.), he pre-
pared to fry six rashers and a like number
of his favorite fruit when he discovered
that he had no fat. Now, dynamite is
greasy and cannot be exploded by fire,
and “Nugget” knew it had to be
detonated to cause trouble; so he calmly
greased the pan liberally with a stick of
the explosive. He had the eggs brown-
ing nicely, but as he went to the creek
20 yards away to fill the billy his oil-
lamp, which hung on a stump near the
fire, fell off its hook on to the frying
pan. The consequent explosion flattened
“Nugget,” and when the smoke cleared
he found that his camp had entirely dis-
appeared.
* * * *
“I.C. de M.”: One of the most curious
of submarine mateships is that of the
Indo-Pacific shore crab and the little
anemone Actinia prehensa. The crab
carries an anemone in each of its nippers,
and so great is its grip that they cannot
be parted unless a nipper be broken or
the anemone torn in two. In the Sydney
Museum aquarium a Port Jackson
spider-crab was seen to set out a number
of small anemones on its back. These it
used as “pantry men,” and as soon as
an anemone attracted food a questing
claw moved across the back of the crab
and grabbed the dainty morsel, even
though it was enveloped in the tentacles
of the anemone.
“Bundeena”: To the already long list
of chicken-stealers must now be added
the most relentless of them all, the sea-
gull. This chap acquired his taste origi-
nally when he commenced to visit coastal
poultry-farms at feeding time, mingling
with the chooks and eating more than his
share of the provender. They became
such a pest that many farmers were
forced to build special feeding yards into
which the fowls were driven before being
fed. Baulked of their easy tucker the
gulls took it out on a few chickens, and
must have passed the good word round.
The attacks became more frequent, and
now even three-months-old pullets are
not safe from their savage attacks.
“J a m e s W.”:
Rarely are live
salmon taken from a
fishtrap. They
usually die in a few
minutes once they
find themselves im-
prisoned, even
though they may-
have ample room to
move about inside
the enclosure. As a
rule they swim to
the up-current side
of the trap,
poke their
heads
through the
wire mesh,
and stick,
victims for
every other
fish inside
and outside
the trap. Many a seagoing croco-
dile has had an uncomfortable session
after trying to gobble salmon snared in
this way. The wire-netting gets tangled
round the croc.’s jaws and dental equip-
ment, and occasionally the robber
drowns, but more often his threshing
mucks up the trap.
* * * D>
“Stralia”: The simplest way to make
sure of a supply of rabbits for the dogs
in winter is to burn a patch of scrub.
Until the vegetation grows again, any
number of them can be shot there, as
they stand out clearly against the black-
ened ground, and, if anything, are more
inclined to rely on lying prone for safety
than they would in thick cover. On the
day after the fire they appear completely
lost and can frequently be dispatched
with sticks. What induces them to return
to the burnt patch is a puzzle.
* * * *
“Fiona”: Dinner was in progress the
other evening at our boarding-house
when the family cat, an elderly feline
and a mighty huntress, was observed to
be , making her way down the room to
the place of her favorite boarder, the
local postmaster. First intimation of
anything unusual was a wild yell from
the p.m.’s neighbor, a nervous young
woman, who leapt from her chair, upset
her soup and mounted the near-by couch.
She was almost immediately joined by
another shrieking damsel, and in a few
seconds a row of agitated young women
were in possession of the couch, beseech-
ing the male element to arise and do
something about it. When they did, they
discovered puss sitting under the table
with a slightly aggrieved air, guarding her
intended gift, which had this time taken
the form of a sprightly eighteen-inch
snake. By the time the commotion had
subsided puss, rightly resenting the re-
ception given to her generous gesture,
had departed with her offering. Every-
body that night turned down beds and
examined crannies before retiring, and it
was only the discovery of half a snake in
the pantry next day that restored the
morale of the boarding-house.
* * * *
“Harry N.”: I watched a water-rat
playing in a stretch of rough river.
Jumping from the bank into the stream
it was tumbled and buffeted about before
being swept over a sft. fall into a still
pool. Then it quickly gained the bank,
immediately set off along it to the head
of the rapids and began the performance
again. Whilst spinning for trout in a simi-
lar stretch of water, I hooked an outsize
in water-rats, the bait being taken so
fiercely that Fd have bet confidently on
its being a bite from a good-sized trout.
* * * *
“C.V.S.”: Any Aboliar with a know-
ledge of acoustics explain this? Lying
with the barrel of his levelled rifle pro-
jecting over the edge of a large, deep
quarry, through which ran a broad
stream, one of our party aimed at an
object near the foot of the opposite cliff
and fired. There was the sharp click of
hammer striking pin, the zzzz of the
speeding bullet, followed by a splash as
it fell short, and then —the report. The
same uncanny effect was obtained from
repeated shots.
AN APPEAL.
Ah! give us a rest from the old, old tune,
song-that is ever sung
And yawped and howled in a thousand pubs
To the beer-pump tune of Bung;
1 refer to that ancient, flogged-to-death,
Long-suffering and boring phrase,
That conversational pain in the neck:
“They were the good old days.”
No doubt in the mists of some bygone age
When skin-clad primeval man,
Armed with a stone-headed axe and a club,
With vigor hunted his scran,
And after the chase sat around and magged,
It’s odds that the talk was in praise
Of the bigger and better dinosaurs
They slew “in the good old days.”
And down through the countless aeons of time
The tradition’s been handed on
That the present age isn’t half so good
As the marvellous one that’s gone;
And future old-timers, like these of to-day,
No doubt will be quick to raise
The same damn’ moan at the way things are,
Compared with “the good old days!”
N.S.W.
BO.


mm
mm
m®.
mm
m
m-.
mm
mmmmmmm mMwmm
tit t*
** <l# 4* 4* M
>£* ** *■+
******** «M
*«■ **
w* ♦» #> ** 3
zt z
■* JP*HR*
i
HC
I
■Mk
SBS
88SS
Sfesffel
-
S&V
PIS
mi
SSSSSSP
PSPs*
mm
m
mm
m
m
mm
**fc4fr
m
A
mm.
mm
mm
Si
H
m
mm
Mm
N.
teas**
SSiSfeSt u
VERTEX
43STRAU
S»
m
mm
mm
«w
mmmm
M
" :>>*
!
i
vm
ps% ?&
&$& % . 4
\z&y*& i< -M
Your Garment i 3
not Aertex unless
it bears this label.
Aertex does let the body breathe —as nothing else
can. It does protect from chills and lassitude —
as no other fabric ever can or will. Fitness and
Aertex go together. And the up-to-date styles of
Aertex day shirts, sport shirts and underwear lend
distinction to formal and informal dress.
Stocked by all good Mens Stores and Drapers
w;w;»rs»r *>.»*>•
mm*
m .
m
f*w«
mi
>'s
m
WM
iti
J 3
....
jjKiJiijJUiiiiuSl]
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Electrolytic Zinc Co. of Australasia, Ltd.
, Dividends
June, Profit. All Shares. Off. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1927.. 544,607 12 p.e. - 312,000 150,145 173,509
Charged to development, £1369 .. 172,140
1928.. 513,732 12 p.c. = 312,000 145,452 228,820
1929.. 513,660 12 „ „ 312,000 138,528 291,252
Charged to development, £lB4l .. 289,411
Pref. Ord.
p.c. p.c.
1930.. 428,156 10 10 260,000 137,532 320,035
1931.. 158,239 Nil Nil 142,768 336,506
Charged to development, £4l .. 336,465
1932.. 234,903 8 Nil 120,000 151,000 300,368
1933.. 373,095 12 Nil 180,000 151,371 342,092
1934.. 350,161 12 4 224,000 117,016 351,237
1935.. 402,956 8 5 175,000 148,008 431,185
1936.. 497,247 10 10 260,000 175,544 492,888
1937.. 691,344 l7l 455,000 154,521 474,711
Easily the best showing since the co.
was formed in 1920. The spring
(£194,097) was due mainly to (1)
the rise in the price of metals and (2)
outturn of more concentrates from the
West Coast. Converting London spot
quotes to Australian currency, spelter
averaged £25 2s. 7d. (up £6 3s. 3d.) and
lead £2B Bs. 4d. (up £8 2s. 9d.). On the
West Coast the co. had nearly half a
million invested on which it got no re-
turn for upward of four years to
February, 1936, when the mill there
started up. Of the total zinc con-
centrates used last year nearly one-
third came from the Rosebery mill.
From this the co. gets the full benefit
of any rise in the price of the metal,
whereas on the other two-thirds, drawn
under contract from the Barrier mines,
it gets only about 40 p.c. of any in-
crease in the price. The lead concen-
trates produced at Rosebery are sold
overseas, and there are some nice pick-
ings from the lead, silver and gold by-
products of the electrolytic plant
residue sent to Port Pirie for realisa-
tion. Cadmium and more by-products
from the residues, together with cobalt
oxide (manufacture of which began in
October, 1936), superphosphate and
mono acid from the roasting of concen-
trates, contribute to the pool, too.
After allowing £130,534 (up £55,130)
for taxation, the board put the year’s net
earnings at £536,613 (up £213,749),
which is reconciled with the figure in
the larger table in this way:
Profit and . loss, balance .. .. ..£536,613
Net addition depreciation reserve, etc. .. 154,596*
Total £691,209
Plus unexplained addition sinking fund.. 135
Net profit as per table .. .. £691,344
* Includes £75 written off development account.
The net addition to the depreciation
reserve, etc., is then shown as written
off, though this reserve (£2,287,116, equal
to 53.2 p.c. of the book value of the
mine, plant, etc., at June 30) appears to
be something more than ordinary provi-
sion for wear and tear. However, after
deducting the allowance for depreciation,
enough remained to show 20.6 p.c. on the
£2,600,000 of capital (pref. and ord. com-
bined), compared with 12.4, 9.8 and 8.9
p.c. for the three preceding terms. The
div. was lifted from 10 p.c. to 15 p.c.,
and a 2\ p.c. bonus was added, making
\l\ p.c. for the year, the final (excluding
bonus) being at the rate of 16 p.c. p.a.
The demand for zinc continued to run
ahead of production, which was 2040
tons less than for the previous year,
which included an extra week, making
53 in all:
Cad- Cop-
Zinc, Silver, Lead, rnium, per, Gold,
Tons.. Oz.* Tons. Tons. Tons. Oz.
1925 46,929 929,500 7030 168 256
1930 54,150 669,800 5466 218 179
1931 55,282 708,000 5091 235 127
1932 53,085 367‘,000 2915 153 106
1933 53,951 221,000 2223 169 79
1934 53,464 197,800 2624 166 'B5
1935 58,889 207,400 . 1983 175 97
1936 72,122 247,500 2403 253 140
1937 70,082 389,480 2266 216 . 248 3780
Of the year’s total zinc production,
25,600 (down 2900) tons, or 36 p.c., was
sold locally. Since the close of accounts
local sales have absorbed about 50 p.c.
of production. The by-products are
obviously handy contributors. The
output of sulphuric acid was 89,077
(up 6565) tons, mostly from the roasting
of Barrier concentrates on the mainland,
where the acid is bought by manufac-
turers of super. Sales of super, from
the co.’s own works in Tas. were 962
tons better at 24,703 tons.
The mill at Rosebery treated 149,962
tons, assaying 20.4 p.c. zinc, 5.7 p.c.
lead, 0.6 p.c. copper, 6.50 z. silver and
I.9Bdwt. gold, with the following results:
. -Assay— \
sii-
Zinc, Lead, ver, Gold,
Tons. p.c. p.c. Oz. Dwt.
Zinc concentrates. . 49,450 54.4 3.4 6.2 1.85
Lead concentrates.. 10,246 13.7 56.3 43.1 10.4
Residue . . .. 90,177 2.5 1.2 2.6 1.1
The zinc concentrates were mostly
roasted at Zeehan (Tas.) and Cockle
Creek (N.S.W.), and the calcines sent
to the big electrolytic mill at Risdon
(Tas.).
The blocked ore in the two West Coast
mines is as follows:
, Assay \
Zinc, Lead, Silver, Gold,
Tons. p.c. p.c. Oz. Dwt.
Rosebery . . 474,707 21.0 6.0 7.0 1.8
Hercules . . 475.613 24.8 6.4 6.7 1.9
Including probable ore, reserves in the
two mines combined are put at 1,500,000
tons, the same as a year ago. In addi-
tion, the diamond drill has revealed
further lenses in both mines.
The outstanding feature of balance-
sheet figures is the strong liquid position:
1931. 1935. 1936. 1937.
Debentures and
interest . . £404,033 £401,697 £401,697 £401,600
Sundry creditors 274,082 138,140 190,845 309,718
Deposits and
interest .. 240,835 87,354 90,358 59,585
Overdraft .. 37,563 8,460 27,314 8,296
Mt. Read-
R o s e b erv
mines ]. 449,783 457,524 457,524 457,524
Properties, plant.
etc. . . 3,654,539 3,787,542 3,809,826 3,835,137
Book debts .. 238,804 161,315 192,418 287,916
Shares, other
cos. .. 226,179 246,733 265.483 353,781
Stocks .. 444,088 368,869 423,762 439,148
Cash, invest-
ments, etc. 281,694 775,407 1,010,669 1,286,105
Excluding shares in other cos. and deben-
tures, the year’s improvement in the
more or less liquid surplus (£1,635,570)
was £317,238.
Schemes under consideration by the
board at the moment are: (1) Extension
of roasting facilities at Risdon; (2)
manufacture of aluminium in conjunc-
tion with the British Aluminium Co.;
(3) production of magnesium, which
enters into the fabrication of light metals
and special alloys used in aeroplane con-
struction. The co. already holds 50,000
shares in Commonwealth Aircraft Corp.,
which will presently turn out aeroplanes,
etc., here.
The London price of zinc, which aver-
aged £33 ss. lid. for March, was £l6
16s. lOd. last week-end. Over the same
period lead fell from £33 os. Id. to £l7
16s. lOd. As for prospects, chairman Colin
Fraser says it is difficult to believe that
world recovery is shortly to end. The
market for the shares has followed the
market for the metal. After touching
70s. 6d., the prefs. are now at 555. 3d.,
at which figure the return is 6.3 p.c. on
a \l\ p.c. div. basis, or 5.4 p.c. on a 15
p.c. distribution. The ords. at 525. 3d.
(they touched 695. 3d.) yield 6.7 p.c. on
the basis of last year’s distribution, or
5.7 p.c. on a 15 p.c. div.
Australian Paper Manufacturers, Ltd.
, Dividends ,
Net Pref. To Re- Re-
June, Profit. 6 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1937 218,179 14,200 11 p.&= 143,200 60,779 338,587
This co. enjoys a monopoly of kraft and
paper-board manufacture in Australia,
and looks like continuing to do so. It
has a big and efficient plant, and large-
scale low-cost production now calls for
such substantial outlay that the co.
“need not fear the development of numer-
ous small competitors,” the chairman
says.
Formed in 1926, the co. took over
the working assets of Australasian Paper
and Pulp (Melbourne) and Cumberland
Board Mills (Sydney)—the pair having
decided to bury the hatchet and go on
the market together—in exchange for its
own shares. After destruction by fire
of the Lane Cove mill (N.S.W.) in 1929,
a more efficient plant was put up at
Botany, and improvements were made
to the co.’s other mills. To make the ac-
counts shipshape 4s. per share (£320,000)
was snippped off the ords. Then slump
slowed down earnings for a while, but
exchange and the tariff diverted to the
co. much business formerly placed over-
seas, and sales bounded along as con-
ditions continued to improve. The man-
agement made the most of its opportuni-
ties. Bigger turnover and improvements
and extensions to plant reduced costs,
enabling profits to expand, while selling
prices were lowered, in some cases to
less than the duty-free cost of the im-
ported article.
After making liberal allowances for
depreciation and other contingencies,
net earnings advanced by annual steps
from £99,372 (7.8 p.c. on capital) for the
year to June 30, 1931, to £218,179 for
the last term, when the improvement was
£23,477. That was after setting aside
£85,394 (up £8578) for depreciation, equal
to 5.4 p.c. of the cost price (£1,559,944)
of fixed assets at June 30, 1936, or 8.8
p.c. of the written-down book value at
the same date. The £218,179 of profit
was enough to pay the pref. div. and
show 15.6 p.c. on average ord. capital—-
and a lot of money was earning only
bank interest, or was represented by
assets that are not yet contributing to
the pool. The ords. were handed 11 p.c.,
and the £60,779 that remained lifted free
reserves to £338,587. No goodwill figures
in the accounts.
After 10 years’ research at a total cost
of over £50,000, the co. decided to manu-
facture from Australian timbers the pulp
it previously imported, and a £600,000
mill is now being erected at Maryvale
(Vic.) for the purpose. To meet the out-
lay, and provide for substantial additions
and replacements at the Melbourne, Fair-
field and Bradford (Vic.) and Botany
(N.S.W.) mills, 400,000 16s. ords. were
issued at 21s. each in 1936, and 1,000,000
£1 6 p.c. cum. prefs. were offered and
snapped (the issue was underwritten) in
April last. That made issued capital
£2,600,000 in a million prefs. and two mil-
lion ords. At June 30 there was still
£322,458 to come in—£226,458 on the
prefs. and £96,000 on the ords.
Here is the position as balance-sheet
figures show it:
Paid capital— 1935. 1936. 1937.
Pref .. .. “ £773.542
Ord.’ .. . . £1,280,000 £1,408,000 1,504,000
Mortgages. . 1 f 10,019
Loans, etc. \ 1 12,290 134,236 1 34.793
Sundry creditors j I 63,229
Freehold and plant 1,384,905 1,559,944 1,087,861
Shares other cos.,
etc 30,658 53,383 53,384
Stock . . . . 449,269 500,519 552,431
Book debts . . 241.698 259,483 480,707
Cash . . . . 21,950 99,482 690,021
The £869,542 of fresh capital gathered
last year, together with surplus .earnings,
enabled £26,195 to be-clipped off the
amount coming to outsiders, £208,825 to
be added to the cost of fixed assets,
£45,912 to stocks and £227,224 to debtors’
balances, while the cash holding increased
by £590,539. The apparent contraction of
£472,083 in the book value of fixed assets
is due to deduction of the reserve for
depreciation (£670,908), which previously
figured on the other side of the accounts.
When the books closed, finances were
obviously snug. To meet the balance of
it's construction programme, the co.
then had £690,021 in cash, plus £322,458
of capital to come, together £1,012,479.
At 245. 3d. the fully-paid prefs. yield
4.9 p.c. The cover is £2 18s. 9d. in net
tangibles. All the ord. capital is owned
by the two holding cos. (A.P. and P. 78
p.c. and Cumberland 22 p.c.), which pay
an all-round 8 p.c. on their respective
capitals. A.P. and P.’s issued capital is
£1,455,101, and Cumberland’s £447,639,
together £1,902,740, on which 8 p.c.
would call for £152,219. To hand the
holding cos. this amount and pay its
own pref. div., the operating co. will
need to net little over 8 p.c. on its
£2,600,000 of capital. Earnings can be
expected to respond when the new pulp
mill and other equipment get into pro-
duction, and costs should benefit.
The following table shows how various
rates of div. on the operating co.’s ord.
capital work out for the holding cos. :
Working r~ —A.P. & P. — ( Cumberland ,
Co.’s Div. Pref. Ord. Pref. Ord.
8 p.c. 8.0 p.c. 6.6 p.c. 6.3 p.c. 6.3 p.c.
9 „ 8.0 „ 7.6 „ 7.2 „ 7.2 „
10 ~ 8.5 „ 8.5 „ 8.0 „ 8.0 „
15 „ 12.8 „ 12.8 „ 12.0 „ 12.0 „
The market price of the holding co.’s
scrip and the yield therefrom compare
as follows:
Cumberland.
, —Pref. , A. P. & P.
Ist. 2nd. 3rd. Ord. Pref. Ord.
Price:
345. 6d. 325. 6d. 325. Od. 28s. 6d. 355. 6d. 335. Bd.
Dividend:
8 p.c. 8 p.c. 8 p.c. 8 p.c. 8 p.c. 8 p.c.
Yield:
4.6 p.c. 4.9 p.c. 5 p.c. 5.6 p.c. 4.5 p.c. 4.9 p.c.
With things as they are, Cumberland
ords. offer a very attractive return.
Lincoln Mills (Australia), Ltd.
, —Dividends— N
Pref. To Re-
June, Profit. 9 p.c. Ordinary, serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £ £
1927.. 36,041 36,000 Nil 41 1.349
Loss. Deficit.
1928.. 1,611 Nil Nil 262
Profit. Reserves.
1929.. 53,184 52,000 Nil 1184 922
1930.. 39,943 40.000 Nil —86 a
1931.. 35.607* 36,000 Nil 472
1932.. 38.668 36,000 Nil 2668 3,140
1933.* 57,496 52,000 Nil 5496 8,636
8J p.c.
1934.. 50,472 36,000 6710 7762 16,398
1935.. 47,615 36,000 6710 4905 21,303
1936.. 50,109 36,000 6710 7399 28.702
1937.. 48,658 36,000 6710 5948 34,650
* Includes £29,376 paid by subsidiaries from reserves.
For more than a decade after it was
formed in 1922 this holding co. was a
disappointment to shareholders. It has
£480,527 of capital to feed, of which
£400,000 carries a cumulative 9 p.c. The
pref. money was gathered at the start
to lighten the debt and finance expan-
sion of the two operating cos. —Lincoln
Spinning Mills and Lincoln Knitting
Mills. In 1925 a fire made reconstruc-
tion inevitable. During the tidying up
£BO,OOO of goodwill and £27,241 of ac-
cumulated losses were rubbed out, and
the remaining plant was written down to


NOBEL-GLASGOW
EXPLOSIVES
GELIGNITE, DYNAMITE,
BLASTING GELATINE, GELATINE DYNAMITE
A 2 MONOBEL, STONOBEL AND SAMSONITE
(Permitted Explosives for Coal-mining)
NOBEL'S THISTLE BRAND SAFETY FUSE AND DETONATORS,
CABLES AND ELECTRIC DETONATOR FUSES, BATTERIES, ETC.
ELECTRIC SHOT-FIRING A SPECIALITY.
AUSTRALASIAN AGENTS;
PERTH, W.A.: Elder, Smith & Company, Eimited.
ADELAIDE. S.A.: Elder, Smith & Company, Limited.
MELBOURNE, VIC.: Dalgety & Company, Eimited.
SYDNEY, N.S.W.: R. N. Kirk & Company.
SYDNEY, N.S.W.: Dalgety & Company, Eimited.
BRISBANE, QED.: Elder, Smith & Company, Eimited.
DARWIN, N.T.: Federal Government Administrator.
LAUNCESTON, TAS.: W. & G. Genders Pty.. Eihiited.
ZEEHAN, TAS.: J. S. Mun.ro & Company.
HOBART, TAS.: Chas. Davis, Eimited.
AUCKEAND, N.Z.: Campbell Bros. •
WELLINGTON, N.Z.: Dalgety & Company, Eimited.
DUNEDIN, N.Z.: Dalgety & Company, Eimited.
CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z.: Dalgety & Company, Eimited.
INVERCARGILE, N.Z.: Dalgety & Company, Limited.
SUVA and EAUTOKA, FIJI: Morris, Hedstrom, Eimited.
ADAMS’ (TATTERS ALL'S) HOTEL
259 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 484 GEORGE STREET.
Rooms, 6/- and 8/- per day; Breakfast, Table d’Hote or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE PUBLIC DINING ROOMS.
Lunch from 12 noon (Sunday, 12.45 p.m.), Dinner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday, 5.45 p m )
Tables or Seats may be reserved by ’Phone, M 4601.
Who Is Your Trustee?
Does he possess the knowledge and experience which the acceptance of that office
demands?
Permanent Trustee Co.
OF N.S.W., LTD
Incorporated 1888 to act as Executors and Trustees.
This Company offers unexcelled trust service, combining security and experience
with efficient administration.
Write for explanatory Booklet, sent free, on request •
Directors - .
f KIEND F. N. YARWOOD SIR THOMAS BUCKLAND
CECIL H. DOYLE (Chairman) W. G. HULL
J. W. BARNES, Manager. E. V. T. WHITTLE, Asst. Mgr.
23-25 O'CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
A SUAE FRIEND IN UNCERTAIN TIME'S ,
■m
:■: \:
m
M
mi s
“It was just
COMMON SENSE"
«nPELL me,” said the A.M.P. representative to a
member of the Society who had instructed him
to add another £l,OOO policy to those he (the
client) already had, ‘‘tell me why you decided to add
this thousand, and to ear-mark it this way.”
‘‘lt was just plain, common sense,” the client said.
I worked it out that if anything should happen to me
interest on my present policies would not give my wife
enough to live on. In the event of my death I want the
proceeds of this policy paid to my wife at the rate of
£2OO a year for five years. Of course, it will be more
than £2OO a year. There will be bonuses to add and
interest. It might easily work out at £6 a week instead
of £4. That, in addition to the earnings of my other
policies, will give her enough to live on for a few years;
it will let her reduce her standard of living gradually
and not all of a heap. It will give her time to adjust
herself to her new circumstances. That seemed common
sense.”
Yes, common sense. So was the action of a young man
who, last week (the day before his wedding), increased his
assurance from £5OO to £l,OOO. So was the action of the
typiste who, last week, took out a policy that will give her
£2 a week for life, on her retirement. The A.M.P. can provide
a commonsense way of meeting practically every financial
problem of life.
Work out your own problem, reader. You have one
for a certainty. Think out its solution. Send to the nearest
A.M.P. office for an experienced adviser to help you think
it out. If you prefer, we shall post you a copy of “Investing
in Happiness,” a book full of helpful ideas. The need is to
act without delay. Even next week may be too late.
A.M.P. SOCIETY
The Largest Mutual Life Office in the Empire.
C. A. ELLIOTT, F.1.A., A. W. SNEDDON, F.1.A.,
Actuary. General Manager. *
C. M. MARTIN,
Secretary and Chief Inspector.
D. E. WALKER,
Manager for New South Wales.
HEAD OFFICE: 87 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Branch Offices at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth and
Hobart.
District Offices throughout all States.
New Zealand Branch Office: Customhouse Quay, Wellington.
what the board considered it was worth.
The books were squared by lopping 16s.
per share (£322,104) off the ords., leav-
ing ord. capital at £80,527 in 4s. shares.
For the next seven years it was a
struggle to keep up payments to the prefs.
But allowances for depreciation, etc.,
enabled plant to be brought more up to
date, and with the passing of slump the
ords. got into the picture for the first
time in 1934 with 8 1-3 p.c., and the div.
has remained steady since. The parent
took over distribution of the two operat-
ing cos.’ products in 1932.
The introductory table shows the posi-
tion as disclosed in the parent’s ac-
counts. The trading figures for the three
cos. combined compare as follows:
Gross Net Divs. Paid by
June, Profit. Exes. Profit. Subsidiaries.
1928.. £110,393 £81,109 £35,289 Nil
1929.. 135,341 81,032 54,309 £55,000
1930.. 131,037 85,054 45,983 40,500
1931.. 80,084 73,853 6,231 36,000
1932.. 103,621 66,167 37,454
1933.. 127,705 70,737 56,968
1934.. 115,693 66,021 49,672
1935.. 109,936 62,771 47,165
1936.. 116,265 67,406 48,859
1937.. 117,789 69,730 48,059
The chairman says last year’s rise in the
price of wool turned demand to cheaper
fabrics, but the co.’s sales were main-
tained in money value, though rather
less in volume. After setting aside
£28,766 (up £900) for depreciation, gross
earnings were £1524 better. Exes, took
all the increase and £BOO besides, leaving
enough to pay the parent’s pref. div.
(£36,000) and show 15 p.c. on ord.
capital, compared with 15.9, 14.4, 16.9
and 26 p.c. for the four preceding years.
The preponderance of pref. capital
detracts from the security for the rights,
and gives the ords. a speculative interest.
Last year’s net earnings were less than
If times the pref. div. requirements, and
each variation of £BO5 in the net result
would affect the amount available for
ord. capital by 1 p.c.
The market, which notes that the tex-
tile trade is becoming a little crowded,
prices the 4s. ords. at 6s. 6d. as against
9s. 3d. a year ago. At the lower figure
the return is 5.2 p.c. The pound prefs.
at 28s. return 6.4 p.c. The net tangible
cover is 265. 6d. prefs. and 6s. 6d. ords.
Finances are comfortable:
1930. 1932. 1936. 1937.
Paid capital.. £480,527 £480,527 £480',527 £480,527
Outside lia-
bilities .. 197,242* 41,248 85,341 75,428
Freeholds .. 93,269 89,161 88,764 86,578
Plant .. 205,724 176,275 141,666 124,103
Stocks . . 310,171 215,483 318,657 319,079
Book debts, etc. 138,850 99.279 106,126 115,527
* Includes an unspecified provision for taxation.
Over the last dozen years £260,146 (68
p.c. of cost) has been written off plant
and £27,923 (24 p.c. of cost) off prem-
ises. Of recent years 7 p.c. p.a. and 2f
p.c. p.a. have been written off cost of
plant and buildings respectively. Stocks,
the most vulnerable point in the business,
are said to be conservatively valued. The
year’s improvement in the more or less
liquid surplus (£359,178) was £19,736.
Peninsula Tin, N.L.
Production commenced in 1930, four
years after formation, but, owing to early
dredging difficulties and the collapse of
metal prices, not till last year did this
Siam producer become a div.-payer. The
co. owns two properties at Ban Nai
Hoot. Reboring of the original area,
most of which has been dug, has indi-
cated only 2,250,000 c.y., averaging 0.41 b.
t. 0., to remain, but 32,000,000 c.y. of fib.
wash has been proved in the adjoining
Nai Hoot property, taken over from
Langsuan Tin, together with that co.’s
assessment, in 1934 for £32,000. Alto-
gether, that is about 17 years’ work for
the Werf Conrad dredge, reconstructed
in 1936 at a cost of £32,500 to handle
160,000 c.y. monthly.
Last term’s performance was the best
yet. Costs were lowered, yardage in-
creased, better-grade ground was met,
and the metal fetched more per ton:
1935. 1936 1937
Cub. yds. treated .. 958,000 218,000 1,529,000
Recovery t. 0., tons .. 229.4 30.7 430
Aver, per c.y., lb. .. 0.53 0.37 0.63
Working costs, c.y. .. 5.41 d. —3.68 d.
Ore real’n price, ton £125/18/- £157
In addition, tributors produced 237 tons
t. 0., for which the co. received £13,000.
Here are recent financial results (Aust.
currency):
Year to , —Dividends—^
April, Revenue. Exes. Profit. Share. Amount.
1935.. £35,314 £21,620 £13,694 Nil Nil
1936.. 20,542 10,661 9,881 Nil Nil
IQ „7 f 80,621 29,643 50,978 2/6 £33,231
61 •' \ Written off plant, £20,000.
Of last year’s profit, £lO,OOO has been
sent to depreciation and obsolescence re-
serve (now £23,000), drawn on for
£20,000 during the year to write down
the book value of power plant and equip-
ment —no depreciation is charged to
working account. The dredge is re-
ported in A 1 condition.
For the five months since the close of
accounts, the dredge, now working the
Nai Hoot property, has turned over
546,000 c.y. for 185.7 tons t. 0., an aver-
age of 0.761 b. per yard. Two quarterly
divs. of Is. per share each have been
paid. Continuance of distributions at
that rate would call for £2192 p.a. more
than last term’s claimed profit. Though
richer ground is now being encountered,
price of the metal has slipped and some
restriction of output is meditated. Penin-
sula has an assessment of 822 tons t.o.
p.a., giving a permissible output of 579
tons under existing quota schemes.
On ’Change the 155.-paid shares, of
which 265,850 are issued, fetch 31s.
The investor at that figure who looks
for his money back plus 8 p.c. p.a.
counts on earnings averaging something
like £54,000 over the next 17 years. At
April 30 more or less liquids exceeded the
£4624 coming to sundry creditors by
£29,372.
Owing to the development of gold-
mining on the Portland Roads field, Cape
York Peninsula, the Queensland Gov-
ernment proposes to extend the present
small jetty at Weymouth Bay for an-
other 700 ft. into deep water (15ft. at low
tide). The field is divided into four sec-
tors —the large iron-ore deposits, the
iron-gold deposits and the northern and
southern schist zones. The iron-gold
deposits lie to the east of the big iron
lode. At Gordon’s Iron Range, the big-
gest show on the field, there is 170 ft.
of backs over a length of about 800 ft.,
and crushings have averaged around 2oz.
to the ton, with Bdwt. in the sands. Other
claims from which rich ore is being won
at shallow depth are Louis Miller’s
Windmill, Fred Evans’s Scarlet Pimper-
nel, Duncan Booth’s Merry Widow,
Booth and Facey’s Big Four, Noble and
Dickenson’s Birthday Gift, Densley
Bros.’ Golden Gate, Hall and Tonkin’s
Double Horseshoe and Sharp and Son’s
Peninsula. At the last-named two shafts
are down 75ft. each, and crosscutting has
exposed 7ft. of sulphide ore, going nearly
3dwt. to the ton. B.H. Prop, is reported
to be taking a tentative interest in this
property and in an alluvial tin deposit on
the Pasco River.
* * * *
At Mt. Coolon (Q.) ore reserves are
equal to about three months’ feed for
the mill. Prospecting on the western sec-
tion of the vein, where only small shoots
were exposed, has been discontinued.
Diamond drilling continues on the
Golden Bar reef, 1700 ft. south of the


A copy of the Prospectus has been filed with the Registrar-General as required by Section 87 of the
Companies Act 1928. .
ABRIDGED PROSPECTUS OF
METAL OPTIONS (BROKEN HILL)
LIMITED
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1928 of Victoria.
NOMINAL CAPITAL £20,000
Divided into 4000 Shares of £5 each.
2500 Shares of £5 each are offered to the public for subscription under the
Prospectus, payable £2/10/- per Share on application and £2/10/- on allotment.
1000 Shares of £5 each are to be issued as fully paid to the Vendor in full considera-
tion for his right, title and interest in an option of 160 acres at Broken Hill,
New South Wales,
500 'Shares are held in reserve for further issue if necessary.
4000
NOTE.—Shareholders are advised that there is no further liability after paying their application and
allotment money.
DIRECTORS:
FRANCIS THOMAS COOPER, Director, Cooper’s Brewery, Ltd., Adelaide
ILIHAM MATTHEW ALFORD, Manager, Louis Dreyfus & Co., T. & G. Buildings Adelaide
JOHN SAMUEL HARRIS, Solicitor, Collins House, Collins Street, Melbourne A «eiaiue.
HERBERT MASSEY MOORE, Manager, 532 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
(One other to be appointed.)
BANKERS :
THE ENGLISH, SCOTTISH AND AUSTRALIAN BANK, LTD., 388 Collins Street, Melbourne
SOLICITORS:
JOHN S. HARRIS, Collins House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne
HENRY E. IRVING, 26 Pirie Street, Adelaide
SECRETARY AND REGISTERED OFFICE:
V. T. HANLY, Collins Court, Little Collins Street, Melbourne
AUDITOR:
MICHAEL T. KEELY, A.1.C.A., Government Licensed Company Auditor, '7l Cole Street,
Elwood.
OBJECTS:
1. The objects for which the Company has been formed are, inter alia, to adopt and carry into
effect with or without modification the hereinafter mentioned Agreement, and to diamond drill the land
mentioned therein, or any part thereof, and generally to do all such acts and things as may be considered
necessary or convenient in order to ascertain the existence and extent of any metalliferous ore body beneath
the surface, and to develop any other property the Company may become possessed of for the benefit of
the Shareholders.
2. —To promote a Company or Companies to acquire all or any part of the said Mining Areas upon
such terms and conditions as may be determined.
„ , 3 -“ To do sueh other acts and things as are more particularly set out in the Memorandum of Association
of the Company. . *
FOREWORD.
The rise in the price of lead is the main influence operating for the success of Broken Hill.
The Mines of the Barrier derive the largest portion of their profits from lead, consequently increased
activity has recently taken place in prospecting for further silver and lead mines. Should any of the
new prospecting companies discover a new lode, it would give to Australia a product required bv every
country in the world to-day.
No new sources of . supply have been found for years, and the cost of production in Spain and America
has risen with the advance in wages there, as in Broken Hill, so that there is no competitive country
underselling Australia.
As an individual producer of silver, lead and zinc, Broken Hill is perhaps the most important mining
centre known. r °
4 , Originally discovered on the Capt. Sturt Expedition of 1844, it was not until 40 years later that
the fabulous silver-lead deposits were unearthed by the chance pegging out of 40 aores of ground on
the slopes of the Broken Hill.
Charles Rasp, boundary rider from the Mt. Gipps
cattle station, acting- under the erroneous impression
that he had found a tin mine, pegged out this area
and subsequently formed a Syndicate of seven to
capitalise and exploit his find. Shaft sinking- gave
disappointing results in its early stages; assays of
10 ounces silver per ton dismayed the Syndicate, but
depression faded and hopes soared high when the high
silver-chlorides were struck about one hundred feet
from the surface. Assays jumped from 10 to 1500
ounces of silver lead per ton. Rich chlorides were
soon discovered on the other parts of the property,
and in August, 1885, the Broken Hill Proprietary Co.
was formed to operate the mine on a larger scale.
From its inception until 1936 this world-renowned
organisation has mined 12,000,000 tons of ox-e, from
which colossal figure 185,611,139 ounces of silver and
117,793 ounces of gold have been extracted.
Production from the entire district during this
period is recorded at 70,000,000 tons of silver, lead
and zinc concentrates, valued at £155,000,000.
The amount of capital invested to date in the leading
mines is stated to be in the vicinity of £12,000,000,
whilst dividends greatly in excess of this figure have
been received by shareholders over the past fifty years.
Census figures taken at the end of 1936 showed 4370
workers in the employ of the five major producing mines,
A
which latter have recently reported ore-reserves approximating 14,000,000 tons.
Truly, the romantic history of Broken Hill, third city of rank in N.S.W., has been inseparably
interwoven with the industrial development of the Commonwealth.
PRELIMINARY EXPENSES AND BROKERAGE.
The Company shall, out of the funds of the Company, pay all expenses in connection with the
incorporation and establishment of the Company, including all legal costs, stationery, printing, etc.
The brokerage of 7,} per cent, per share shall be paid by the Company to all brokers who are members
of any recognised Stock Exchange on all shares allotted in response to applications identified as coming
through them.
APPLICATIONS FOR SHARES.
Application for shares should be made on the form attached to the prospectus and forwarded, together
with application money of £2/10/- per share, to the Company’s Secretary, Mr. V. T. Hanly, 370-6
Collins Court, Little Collins S'treet. Melbourne.
The Directors reserve to themselves the right to refuse any application.
PROMOTION.
No sums or consideration will be paid or given by the Company to any promoter as such.
No Director is interested in the promotion of the Company or in the property or any part thereof
proposed to be acquired.
FOUNDER'S SHARES.
No Founder’s, Management or Deferred Shares are being issued under this Prospectus.
Application for quotation of the Company’s shares on the official list of the Melbourne and Adelaide
Stock Exchanges will be madie by the Directors.
MINIMUM SUBSCRIPTION.
The minimum subscription upon which the Company may proceed to allotment is four hundred (400)
LISTING ON STOCK EXCHANGE.
It is intended in due course to apply for listing on the Stock Exchange. The Articles of Association
of the. Company have been drafted to comply with the requirements of the Melbourne and Adelaide Stock
Exchanges.
APPLICATION FOR PROSPECTUS.
To Directors,
Metal Options (Broken Hill), Ltd.,
Collins Court, Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
Sirs, —Please forward a prospectus of Metal Options (Broken Hill), Ltd., and oblige
NAME
ADDRESS
STATE
SAM. B. BAGLEY,
Stock and Share Broker
(Member of the. Stock Exchange of Melbourne).
Normanby Chambers,
430 Little Collins Street,
Melbourne, C.l.
’Phone: Cent. 872 (3 lines).
Cable and Telegraphic Address:
■ “Yelgab,” Melbourne,
Public Notice.
C ORESTRY BONDS. —I pay up to £5 more
A per bond than other buyers for N.Z. Per-
petual Forests Bonds/—R. F. CORMACK, 440
Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
TRUCK OWNERS!
Ride the road that leads to
1
I
§
1
m
i
:v:W
m
I
Jhet'e&mimfig
w
MT.90.14.37.
Barnet Glass
TRUCK TYRES
are your greatest Profit Builders
BARNET GLASS RUBBER CO. LTD.. INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA
• TREAD and CASING
protected by heavily
ARMOURED WALLS.
•GREATER RIM
STABILITY because
of twin Bead Wires.
• MORE MILES AND
SAFER SERVICE be-
cause of greater con-
structional strength.
Mt. Coolon reef; hopes are that the vein
may pass into favorable andesite rock at
depth. The co. holds 50,000 f.-p. 4s.
shares in Morning Star (Vic.), which the
market prices at 3s. Id. each. Exclud-
ing these, liquids exceeded outside liabili-
ties by £39,873 at the end of 1936. Treat-
ment operations, suspended in February
last, were resumed on Oct. 4. •
* * * *
Small parcels of picked ore are still
being sent to Chillagoe from the Wollo-
gorang field, about 170 miles west of
Burketown (Q.). Since the beginning of
this year about 180 tons, estimated to
average around 40 p.c. copper, have been
shipped. Owing to the high cost of trans-
port, dispatch of ore containing less than
25 p.c. copper is unprofitable. A lot of
the oxides and carbonates go as high as
60 p.c. Much work remains to be done
before the extent oT the several lodes
now being developed is proved.
* * * #
A. M. Antoine is impressed with the
possibilities of Mt. Carbine, Herberton
district (N.Q.). He says the hill, a mile
and a half long, half a mile wide and
rising 500 ft. above the surrounding
country, is intersected by veins and lodes
varying from less than an inch to Bft.
in width, and carrying wolfram, tungstic
ochre and scheelite. The makes are
claimed to improve in size and value at
a depth of over 400 ft. below the crest
of the hill. Timber is plentiful, no
serious transport difficulties exist over the
21 miles to the railhead at Mt. Molloy,
61 miles from the port at Cairns, and
ample water is available in the Mitchell
and Mary rivers, four and five miles away
respectively. At Mt. Alto, about two
miles to the south-west, wolfram and tin
are present in the greisenised granite,
with indications of lodes at the contacts.
About a mile and a half to the east of
Mt. Carbine, and also about five miles
to the south-east, deposits of scheelite
occur.
* * * *
Impoverishment of Wiluna’s main
workings at depth is causing both the
management and shareholders concern.
Latest developments in the bottom work-
ings disclose continued falling off in the
grade of ore. While the management
hopes for the best, the prospects of re-
duced profits, if values go from poor
to worse, must be recognised. To estab-
lish more definitely the characteristics of
deeper ore zones, exploratory work by
means of internal shaft-sinking, driving
and diamond drilling is being hastened.
At one time, when the mine looked big
and strong, the £1 shares had buyers at
over 80s. in the Australian market. Then,
after a gradual decline over a period of
three years, the scrip steadied around
245. for a while, but recently slumped
to 13s. So far the bulk of ore extracted
has come from the southern section of
the mine, and the balance from the
Happy Jack and Bulletin leases to the
north. There is a lot of virgin ground
between and beyond, so the co. still has
something to hazard upon outside its
present workings
* *' * *
Spargo’s Reward (W.A.) is installing
two Huntingdon mills to deal with oxi-
dised ore. Profits from crushings, to-
gether with the return of £5OOO deposit
lodged with the State Government in con-
nection with water-scheme extension, are
expected to provide sufficient funds for
additional plant to handle sulphide ore,
which has been developed to the 500 ft.
level, and has been proved to go down
below that point. Some time ago the
property (it is 28 miles south of Cool-
gardie) was placed under option to a
London co., but no business was done.
* *, ~ * „, *
Perth-controiled Mt. Ida Gold Mines
treated 1883 tons for an average return
of 12dwt. last year. Ore reserves are
estimated at 3000 tons actual, 1200 tons
probable and 1800 tons possible. There
is also a dump containing about 1883
tons Of tailings. Recoverable grade of Ore
fiofiirpH at I QnH of
IS ngurea at ipawt., ana tnat or taumgs
at 7ydwt. Cash at June 15 totalled £5BB.
The co. recently asked shareholders for
more
1 ’
* * * *
Admirers of North Kalgurli (W.A.)
still rejoice. Milling grade, which is
,•■.■ , . •, ,
being maintained, seems more likely to go
up than down, while ore reserves are
bulging, thus Steadily putting the mine
further ahead of the mill, and profits
have lately increased. Shareholders were
handed a ninepenny div. in August, and
another of similar amount is to be sent
out in December.
* * * *
Consolidated Gold Areas and Cele-
bration, two disappointing Westralian
ventures holding relics of the 1920-21
Hampton Plains boom, may run in
double harness. It is claimed that they
“form the foundation of a solid organ-
isation,” and should prove “a profitable
working proposition.” Divided they fell,
and, according to a Bulletin man on
the spot, their chances of rising are not
promising.
* * * *
Western Mining Corp.’s intensive
search for gold continues in W.A.
The latest prospect to attract its atten-
tion is a show at Mt. Ida, 80 miles north-
west of Menzies. The reef is reported to
have been opened up to a shallow depth
for more than a hundred yards. An
option has been taken.
* * * *
Directors of Marvel Loch (W.A.) are
confident that the tide will turn when
the additional plant, installed to treat
the harder ore in the sulphide zone, com-
mences crushing. Management claims
to have developed a fair tonnage
of 9dwt. value below 200 ft., where
the gold-carrying formation is reported
to be well defined and showing signs of
permanency
* * * *
Hannans Hill Amalgamated mine
(W.A.), which includes Paddy Hannan’s
Reward claim, has been acquired by Mt.
Charlotte (Kalgoorlie) Gold Mines, for-
merly known as Lomah (Rhodesia), Ltd.
Over the last two years co. has done a
lot of development and borehole pros-
pecting on the property.
PATENTS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 422
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
* * * *
AUSTRALASIAN timberlands and plantation
valuation surveys, milling plants, certification of
shipments. L. MACINTOSH ELLIS, B.Sc. (late
Director State Forest Service, New Zealand), Consult-
ing Forest Engineer, 8 Bond Street. Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
A wide range of Power Transmission Equipment,
including ball and roller bearings, couplings, collars,
wood and steel split pulleys, beltings, etc., is
illustrated and priced in our 1935 Catalogue. Write
to William Adams & Company, Ltd., 175 Clarence
Street, Sydney, for a copy.— Advt.


HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young; Streets, Sydney
■
■
■
n
fiiiiii
Hi
i if
mil
ill
mi
■
. S: s ;•
Modern high-class accommodation
at a moderate tariff. Hot and cold
water in all rooms. Rooms with
and without private Bathrooms
and Telephones available. Meals
at moderate rates unexcelled
cuisine Dining Rooms, Grill
Room, Banquet Room and Winter-
garden, together with a first-class
orchestra.
Rooms only from 6/6 per night.
Telegrams, Cables and Wireless
"METROPOLE,” Sydney ,
Telephones: 8W2061 (9 lines)
86363 (4 lines)
SMOKE-OH!
“Her lovely house, George’s Hall, is convict-
built and has an enormous cellar in the base-
ment.” — “Sun.”
A distinct advantage over the modern
houses, which have theirs on top of the
roof.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Wood ashes are excellent for the garden,
but coat ashes are useless.”
— “Herald” gardening note.
At least they’d make a good top-dress-
ing.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“The bridesmaids’ skirts are very fully gored
and at regular intervals they are caught into
bunches and tied around the knobs with gold
thread.”— “Sun.”
But surely all the bridesmaids wouldn’t
have such skinny legs!
4* 4* 4* 4*
“According to a psychologist, fat men are
usually courageous.”
Especially if they wear shorts for
surfing.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Beating swords into ploughshares
seems like hammering handcuffs into
wedding rings.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Accused took off his boots.”
—“Daily Telegraph.”
Giving himself a free leg if the Beak
wouldn’t.
4* 4* 4 4*
“Railway Contracts.” — Headline.
Ah! that should mean a shorter jour-
ney then!
“It is claimed for a newly-invented pencil
that it will never wear out.”
But has it yet been tried out report-
ing a women’s association meeting?
Saturday Afternoon in Babylon.
“This is the Babylonian Broadcasting
Commission. We are now crossing over
to the Lions’ Den, where our sporting
commentator will give a running descrip-
tion of the main event, the contest be-
tween Daniel, the Hebrew champ., and
King Darius’s specially-imported Nubian
lions.”
“Ah! here’s Daniel, trained to the
minute. I’ll see if I can get him to speak
to you . . . Hello, Daniel, what about
a word to the fans? No? Well, good
luck, Dan, old boy!
“The betting market is rather subdued.
Even at the longest odds against Daniel,
there are no takers among the Jews.
“The guards have just tossed Daniel
into the den. Hear the roar of the crowd
—they’re on tiptoe.
“Ah, as I thought, big Leo’s first in
for his cut. Gosh! What a wonderful
spring! Wow! Daniel slipped under
him like a flash! Now they’re after him.
Ah! No system about them! No team-
work! They’re letting Daniel get clear
while they bungle in the centre and get
in each other’s way. Why don’t they
“Someone swiped me knife, sir.”
spread out and stalk him? Never seen
such a rotten display in the Den.
“Ah, this is better. Leo’s showing the
way. He’s a coming champion, this big,
handsome feline. They’ve got Daniel!
They’ve got him! Hear the crowd!
Daniel can’t break free! It’s a fall —
a fall! Daniel must give in! Yes, he’s
done! The lions have started to eat!
Grand work! Hullo! No, he’s not done.
Where’s the referee? Why doesn’t the
King intervene? This is unprecedented,
listeners. Daniel’s eating the lions!”
Turoar.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“His stable companion shows good form on
the track but has been a consistent failure in
races.” — “D.T.”
Scarcely a stable companion, then.
4* 4* 4’ 4*
“For the first time in living memory, a shoal
of sharks, some 20ft. in length, was seen in the
Thames estuary off Southend.” — Cable.
The “Cronk-News,” it is understood, is
urging the Admiralty to investigate the
claim of its special correspondent that
they are disguised Italian torpedoes.
“His work was to cut up sides of bacon. He
joked and laughed continually as he worked.”
— “D.T.”
Well, his was a side-splitting job.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“All persons admitted to gaol are photo-
graphed.”—“Sun.”
A rush of social climbers to go to
gaol may be expected.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Fruit will be sold in Victoria by number
in the near future.” — “Sun.”
As a result, short-weight artists will
now take the count.
+ 4* -f
Customs and Inhabitants of Our
Great Outback.
The “drive” which is so spectacular
a feature of Australian tree felling has
been brought to such a pitch of perfec-
tion, especially among the axemen of
the great mangrove forests of Centralia,
that any man who can’t fell a tree with-
out its taking at least 20 more with it in
a skittling process is regarded as a mug
at the game. Nor need the trees be in
a straight row.
Before felling operations commence the
area is mapped out by the camp
draughtsman and the various angles
taken of the trees which are to come
down. Then, working on the principle
of the “cannon” shot in billiards, elab-
orate calculations are made to deter-
mine at what precise point the “key”
tree must hit the No. 2 tree to start the
skittle.
For instance, it might be found that
22ft. from the base and 2in. east
of dead centre is the target. This would
aim the No. 2 tree, say, W.S.W., catch-
ing the third tree plumb centre, to knock
the fourth N.N.E. on its extreme edge,
sending it away very fine so as to wallop
the next back due east, and so on until
the whole area is down.
The keenness and pride in the work of
these fellers is reflected in the case of
Mick McXonopopolos, a brawny Welsh
feller who was engaged in bringing down
56 enormous swamp gums in the Vic-
torian mallee. He had unerringly felled
54, but the second-last was caught by a
sudden puff of wind as it fell, causing
it to strike the last one only a glancing
blow which rocked it without bringing
it down. Bitterly disappointed, Mick
swore he would never touch an axe again
and, packing up his implements, made
for the nearest pub, where he proceeded
to drown the memory of his deep
humiliation. It wasn’t until he had drunk
his way through four crosscut saws and
seven axes that his pals, after much
argument, convinced Mick that a puff of
wind constituted an act of God, and
that the failure could not therefore be
attributed to any miscalculation on his
part.
One would have thought that would
have been sufficient. Not so. Immedi-
ately he sobered up Mick searched for
a suitable area with exactly the same
number of trees and approximately the
same layout, and not until he had
bi ought the lot down, the last one right
between two lines he had marked out,
did he deem that honor was fully re-
stored.
Due precautions are, of course, taken
when a “drive” is about to begin. All
observatories are notified so that violent
agitation of their seismographs will not
cause undue alarm. As the cumulative
effect of the tremendous concussions
might addle the brains of the fellers
were they not insulated from the ground,
they sit on specially sprung easy chairs.
The teamster, too, must plug the ears of
Tiis bullocks with wadding as well as
have his team shod with rubber shoes.
He himself sits on an air cushion placed
on one of his insulated bullocks.
No reference to timber-getting would
be complete without mention of the
duties of the teamster. Owing to the great
size of most of the logs, teams of up to
60 bullocks are necessary, and where he
has to make detours to avoid stumps
the teamster’s troubles start. Unless he
keeps an eagle eye on his
team as they make a sweep-
ing movement the leaders
may catch up with the bul-
locks at the tail end, thus
forming a circle. He is then
compelled to make a close
examination of each one
for some identifiable pecu-
liarity ; e.g., Baldy, one of
the leaders, might have a
wart behind his left ear. A
close scrutiny of 60 bovine
lugs is not conducive to
good temper.
Some teamsters, owing to this aggra-
vation caused by stumps left all over the
gully, refuse to work unless trees are cut
off at ground level. To effect this, ex-
cavations have to be dug for the fellers
to stand in as they chop, and these are
filled in afterwards.
Perfect understanding between the
teamster and his bullocks is essential.
Thus, when he calls his long-drawn-out
“Ah-we-eah!” followed by “Ah-wo-o-
ah! ” one meaning “forward” and the
other “back,” the intelligent beasts go
sideways.
When snigging a log downhill he ob-
viates the danger of its crushing his team
by sitting on the end of it and throwing
out anchors which catch in the scrub
and thus act as brakes.
It is in getting a huge log on to the
jinker, however, that the teamster displays
his greatest ingenuity. The vehicle, with a
red rag tied to it, is placed near the log.
The angry bullocks immediately charge
it, knocking it over on its side. It is then
a simple matter to tie the log on to it.
The team is then yoked to the over-
turned jinker and a pull brings it on to
its four wheels again.
S. W. K.
Extremes Meet.
The motoring enthusiast
Who feels that cars should all be passed
And tries to scorch round like a record-
breaker
Might ponder, ere he bites the dust,
That over takers simply must
Inevitably meet the undertaker!
DORIC.
Progress.
In the days when they had handbags
with old-fashioned knobs on and con-
sisting of only one compartment, it took
a woman as long as four minutes to get
the correct change for a tram ticket.
The newest zipper handbags allow the
whole thing, with all its separate com-
partments, to fly open in a split second.
Now a woman can get the correct
change for a tram ticket in four minutes.
CINCO.
Unreasonable Women.
“He refused to come back and live with me,
saying that he could not afford to keep a family
and feed his greyhounds.” —Evidence in divorce.
Reasonable enough ; but there are
women who are most unreasonable. No
nobility of character ; and selfish! I
know, because, although I don’t exactly
own horses, I help to keep them. Where’d
the people who live on the racing game
be without the people who support it?
And how could they feed their horses?
I’ve explained that to my wife scores of
times, and she has been heartless enough
to say that the horses could starve for
all she cared.
Imagine such lack of feeling in a
woman! Not prepared to make the
least bit of a sacrifice! I told her I
couldn’t keep her and the 13 children and
horses, too. Pure humanitarianism
forced me to keep on backing horses.
Even at that I was generous enough
not to remind her that she had had
pretty well half the child-endowment
money, though what she used to do with
it is beyond me.
No ; women never see things in the
right light.
H. M.
Question.
“A garden is a lovesome thing, God
wot!”
So sang the bard, with floral arches
o’er him.
But would he have been gushing such a
lot,
Think you, or been entranced if he’d not
got
A gardener to weed the damned thing
for him ?
ZAKE.


Holeproof Orels.
Last sold at 275., ords. in Hole-
proof Hosiery, Melbourne, repre-
sent good buying. The yield on a
10 p.c. div. basis (last year 19 p.c.
was shown on ord. capital) is 7.4
p.c., allowing for div. accrued. The
co.’s products have a wide market
in various price-ranges. The scrip
has been up to 325. this year. The
financial position is good.
llilll
111
mm
gHfeea immmm mm , < .
1| i I||| 11 || ||| |.
tlt4te $ &
swmq to
I ■
Thexf \e so much hettel
lit
m
llti
i
mi
lx ;
ALSO BLACK AND WHITE FINE CUT-THE FINEST MONEY CAN BUY
Business,Rollery,Etc.
U.S.A. and Australia
Palpitations continued in Wall-street
last week, and it looked as though quite
a few people in the States wouldn’t have
minded taking a pot-shot at Santa Claus
if they got the chance. Roosevelt’s alpha-
betically-labelled “little dictatorships” in
the civil service and the Government’s
policy generally have landed the country
with increased debt; high costs and possi-
bilities of inflation. The New Deal was
suspect' by many industrialists right from
the beginning, and already there has been
bitter strife between industry and labor,
something that shouldn’t happen if Santa
Claus was doing his job as per catalogue.
There is always danger where round-
about “credit” stunts are relied on to
solve economic problems, especially
where the stunts are designed to appeal
to dissatisfied people who were credu-
lous enough to listen to Dr. Townsend
and other disciples of the “new eco-
nomics.”
Australia has seen some sharemarket
and commodity-price ups and downs dur-
ing the last 10 months, but business has
steadily improved. These share prices
show some of the fluctuations in this
country:
March April July Oct. Oct.
16. 29. 29. 21. 28.
Bank N.5.W... £37.9 £38.5 £35.2 £33.6 £34.2
National (£5).. £B.O £7.9 £7.5 £7.3 £7.6
Carlton ..64/- 63/6 67/6 65/- 65/6
C.-Perkins .. 26/- 26/9 26/9 26/3 26/6
Tooth .. 57/- 58/3 55/6 55/- 54/9
G„ Mort . >39/6 39/- 36/6 34/6 34/6
Winchcombe.. 36/6 36/6 36/-* 33/9 33/6
Adel. Steam.. 32/6 32/6 31/3 32/9 32/6
Q’land Insur. 60/9 60/- 60/- 56/-
A. Gas “A”.. £7.2 £7.3 £7.4 £7.4 £7.5
Assoc. News.. 24/3 23/7 23/- 22/9 23/6
Aus. Glass .. 93/6 90/- 95/3 91/- 92/6
Aus. Paper .. 39/ — 35/- 33/6* 33/3 33/6
Aus. Cement.. 31/6 31/6 32/- 32/- 31/6
B. Tobacco.. 53/- 50/- 50/- 48/6 48/6
B.H. Prop. ..91/3 81/3 82/9 67/6*66/3
8.. Philp .. 80/- 73/- 72/9 58/3 58/3
E. Zinc. .. 66/6 57/6 58/- 52/- 52/3
Fairymead .. 39/3 37/6 35/- 32/6 32/6
G. J. Coles ..£5.3 £5.2 £5.6 £4.7 £4.7
G„ Gotch .. 52/- 52/6 51/6 54/3 54/6
H. Jones .. 46/- 46/9 50/- 49/3 50/3
M. “Herald”.. 74/6 71/- 69/- 65/6 66/-
Mauri Bros. .. 75/- 74/- 70/6 69/- 68/6
W. H. Soul .. 84/6 85/- 90/- 89/- 88/-
Yarra Falls .. 43/- 42/-* 39/9* 40/3 40/-
North B.H. .. 89/3 70/9 76/- 58/3 57/3
B.H. South .. 58/- 46/9 47/9 40/9 41/-
Mt. Lyell .. 52/6 45/3 43/6 38/5 38/6
* Ex rights.
In the U.S.A. trade seems to have re-
ceived a definite setback just when it
appeared to be gathering some momen-
tum. London “Economist” comments
that
There is an impression that the potency
of enterprise has become so dulled by
administrative intervention that an appreci-
ably greater economic incentive is now re-
quired to promote expansion.
So the Wall-street market that had been
buoyed up by gold sales to N’York and
internal speculation is taking the count.
Last week Australian sharemarkets
kept fairly quiet, and, though metals
fluctuated, the week closed with little
variation in silver-lead, copper or tin
share prices. Good brewery shares have
kept steady, and stocks with healthy
records at present yielding over 4 p.c.
were mostly strong. Henry Jones,
Gordon and Gotch, Adelaide Steam and
Australian Cement- fall into this class.
The thing that needs most careful
watching in this country at the moment
is rising costs. There is no necessity for
big figures, and too-high wages, etc.,
always defeat themselves. The buying-
power of those in jobs at the moment
has rarely been higher. That state of
affairs can be maintained without lifting
figures, but some powers that be appear
to be hard to convince on the point.
Given clear-headed management, our
future shows more promise than that of
most countries of the world.
At Broken Hill Prop.’s annual meet-
ing it was stated that steel consumption
in the Commonwealth wasn’t greatly
above pre-depression levels ; that the co.
had a much bigger share of the local
market was the main reason for its
record output. In its year to May 31
last B.H.P. earned 26.4 p.c. on average
capital, notwithstanding that, of its
£4,982,014 of paid capital,
(1) £750,000 was represented by ord.
shares in Aust. Iron and Steel, at present
not contributing to B.H.P. profits;
(2) there was, roughly, £3,000,000 in
shares in other subsidiaries, etc., which, it
may be taken for granted, didn’t pay all
their earnings out in dividends;
(3) there was £1,199,705 in free cash
items;
(4) there were substantial but undissected
advances to Australian Iron and Steel,
which might amount to anything between
£500,000 and £1,000,000 (B.H.P.’s debtors
lifted £1,107,512 during 1936-37).
So far as a large portion of the capital
is concerned, profits have still to show
up in B.H.P.’s accounts. Tinplate works
are as yet in abeyance, interests in pipe-
making and tube-drawing concerns are
still in their infancy, while any profits
from manufacture of motor-cars or aero-
planes are away in the future. Never-
theless, most of these interests should
later on become worth while, and be of
assistance to, rather than a drag on, earn-
ings from the Newcastle works.
Following the election results, as antici-
pated here all bank scrip firmed. Among
this page’s selections E., S. and A. shares
lifted to £5 155., after £5 9s.
* * * *
North Kalgurli has declared what is
described as “a second interim ’ of 9d.
sterling per 2s. share for 1937, payable,
less British income tax of 2s. 9d. in the
£l, on Dec. 10. Over the past three
calendar years distributions have been
as follows:
1935. 1936. 1937.
June 28, 9d. Aug. 18, 6d. Apr. 30, 6d.
Dec. 12, 9d. Dec. 28, 9d. Aug. 10, 9d.
Dec. 10, 9d.
Already this year dividends declared
represent 2s. sterling a share (100 p.c.).
For the 1937 financial period net earn-
ings may amount to 140 p.c. on capi-
tal. Progressive working results were
given here a fortnight ago. Shares have
lifted to above 21s.
* * * *
Deposits in Australian savings banks
at Sept. 30 reached the record level of
£232,845,000. In June, 1929, they were
£225,486,000 ; two years later they were
down to £193,375,000 (at a time when
trading-bank deposits were moving up);
a year ago they stood at £225,045,000.
Present high figures suggest that the
people generally are participating in the
improved employment and credit posh
tion. Cost of living figures are still about
12| p.c. below pre-depression levels,
which makes the value of present savings-
bank deposits that much greater.
* * * *
J. Woolcott-Forbes has resigned from
the managing-directorship of Producers
and General Finance Corp., Sydney.
A. H. Pellow, formerly g.m., takes on
the job. Over about a week the ord.
scrip lifted from 11s. 3d. to 14s.
* * * *
Advices to hand from London dated a
month ago draw attention to the posi-
tion in France. British investors are
worried about international affairs, but
French people are gravely concerned
about things within and without their
own country, hence the flight from the
franc. British employment is at record
level; unemployment and rising costs are
present bugbears of the French. Over a
year the prices of bread and milk have
lifted 50 p.c., and the benefit of in-
creased wages has been lost. The retail
trade is depressed. Following the recent
cantonal elections the franc firmed
slightly, from 150 to 146 to the pound
sterling, then drifted again to 148.
* * * *
Average-grade wools realised between
14d. and 15d. at the Brisbane sales ; the
average for 1936-37 was 16.7 d. German,
French, Belgian and Italian interests
operated most heavily. Sales opened
again in Sydney last week with slightly
better prices.
* * * *
The American motor-car industry is
facing increasing costs that threaten to
affect the output of steel and consump-
tion of tin in the U.S.A. That is one
reason for the weakness in world metal
quotations. It is possible, however, that,
if exports of American cars fall off, other
countries will fill the gap, and take up
the slack in tin consumption.
#
Henry Jones Co-op., with a final div.
of Is. 6d. a share, has declared 10 p.c.
for the year just closed. The scrip has
firmed to 50s. 6d., returning 4 p.c. ex div.
* * * *
By selective sloping last year Golden
Plateau (Q.) kept the average milling
grade up to above lldwt. The remain-
ing ore reserves run from a small ton-
nage of l|oz. ore, about eight months’
mill supply going between lOdwt. and
14dwt., and some large blocks of 4dwt.,
sdwt. and 6dwt. ore, the total reserves
being 237,300 tons (about four years’
supply) averaging 6|dwt. At the annual
meeting held last week in Melbourne,
chairman T. R. Victor said development
to the 444 ft. level should produce an
additional 150,000 tons from the three
shoots, and average grade might lift to
Bdwt. The market, in putting a price
of 14s. 6d. on the contribs., counts on these
anticipations being realised. By the end
of the current term something definite
should be known. If the ore-body between
shoots becomes payable at depth, as some
think it will, it may call for new treat-
ment methods ; the “lower workings aije
now well into the sulphides.” The ques-
tion arises as to whether more capital will
be needed later on, and so alter div.
prospects. The co. had £90,000 in surplus
liquids at balance day.
* * * . *
In Melbourne last week:
Following quotes of £5 7s. 6d. per unit in
London for wolfram, the 25.-paids in King
Island ScHEELfra were weaker at around par.
Preliminary operations have commenced.
Golden Plateau shares made a firming move
to 14s. 7d. following the annual meeting, when
maintenance of 3s. divs. was predicted.
Normanby Tin ls.-paids sold as high as
2s. 6d., then 2s. 3d.
Lancefield was sick in. the market; sales
at 7s. Bd. followed Bs. 6d.
Marshall Shoe Co. Pty., Ltd., decided to
wind up, and the holding co., Marshalls,
Ltd., with it. William Marshall started making
shoes at Port Melbourne in 1869. Co.’s turn-
over dropped off to about 450 pairs a day, as
against 5000 pairs.before the depression. The
co. tried to turn out a good-quality shoe at
a low price, but still-lower prices (and lower
quality) seemed to be what took the public eye.


m}
m
m,,.)
V\
spy
m
“Let Atlas carry the burden.”
Established 1808.
Security to Policyholders exceeds
£18,000,000,
Fire—Accident—Marine
WOOL (Sheep’s back to store)
CROP Insurance
Combined Hail & Fire Policies
Applications invited for Agencies where
not represented.
ATLAS
ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
(ENGLAND). ;
D. NORMAN TRENERY,
Manager for Australia and' New Zealand,
“Atlas” Buildings, 406 Collins St., Melbourne,
Head Office for New South Wales:
“Atlas” Buildings, -8 Spring Street, Sydney.
GUf H. HEATH,- Manager.
THE
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Published Every Thursday
Is the most popular 68-page '.AyOman’s '
paper . published- ,in.V the • Common-/
wealth. It features everything a
woman ought to -know. ' Once you
read it--you jwill/nefer be without it.
Every ■ month‘s six'/to-' nine -patterns. -
are given -away'- free - for a penny
i stamp i for postage. ' -
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd.,
252 George Street, Sydney.
WITH EVERY GALLON
9a
iO
't.
a
%
£
W 1
p
ffi
Alwaysask for C.O.R Super Plus Ethyl, the only
supei grade petrol that also contains BENZOL. A
natural anti-knock fuel in itself, benzol, when
blended with super grade petrol, gives your engine
EXTRA POWER and presents you with a bonus of
EXTRA MILES PER GALLON AT NO EXTRA
COST.
Remember only C.O.R Modern Petrols contain
BENZOL—an exclusive C.O.R improvement.
SUPER
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES-LTD.
(Commonwealth Government' & Anglo-Iranian Oil
Co.-Ltd.), Incorporated in-Victoria with'Branches at
MELBOURNE, SYDNEY, ADELAIDE, BRISBANE
C93.30.5P
ila
With the announcement of a fresh Com-
monwealth loan due any day now (the
new Parliament is to be called together
about Nov. 24), some attention is being
directed towards interest rates. Yields
on all issues of Consols have shortened
since the last float in May ; the overall
rate has dropped from £3 19s. 2d. per
cent, in April to around £3 16s. 6d. per
cent, last month, with the long-term rate
around £3 17s. per cent. Effective yield
on the last issue was £3 19s. Id. per cent.,
term 11 years. The two preceding issues
were of 15 years’ term. The improved
banking position and war scares (which
paradoxically caused some investors to
change from ord. shares to fixed-interest
securities) have helped Consols lately.
* * * *
Over the past two years Mt. Morgan
has spent £158,417 in “refining and
realisation charges—concentrates” ; this
amount is made up of £69,444 in 1935-36
and £88,973 in 1936-37, and in the latest
term represents ss. 6d. a ton of sulphide
ore treated. The concentrates and most
of the ss. 6d. a ton go to Tacoma
(U.S.A.), where refining is carried out.
If the copper content of the ore should
grow as the workings go down the con-
centrates may increase in bulk compared
with their value, lifting shipping charges.
Thus there seems to be a strong case for
the erection of smelters near the mine.
At the annual meeting on Sept. 30 chair-
man Eric Campbell said that the prob-
lem was “still being considered.” A sum
of £50,000 was mentioned as enough to
construct the necessary plant. If that
figure is right, in view of the £88,973
paid last year for refining, the question of
“why not?” arises very noticeably.
Mt. Morgan shares lifted to 12s. again
last week, after sinking under 10s. for a
spell. The difficulties experienced by the
management in dealing with the open-
cut overburden problem was one thing
that disheartened supporters of the stock.
Grade of the ore-body, where undiluted
with overburden, seems right. Equipment
of the opencut for mechanised mining is
expected to cost £lOO,OOO, spread over
the next two or three years, and to be met
out of revenue. There is a major mining
problem at Mt. Morgan, but unless pro-
gress is reported within the next 12
months shareholders will be entitled to
ask for the reason to be explained to
them in short words. Mt. Morgan has
to gather its rosebuds while gold is high
and costs low, and the opencut problem
should have been squarely faced before
this. It was something that had to
happen, and might have been anticipated.
* * * *
North Broken Hill’s quarterly div. at
the reduced rate of Is. 3d. a! share
knocked the market back last Friday.
The scrip touched the lowest level of the
year (555. 3d.). Previous three quarterly
divs. were of Is. 6d. each, plus 6d. bonus
in September. Norths are now the most
heavily marked-down Barrier stock (com-
pared with this year’s high) on the list.
Souths were about 4s. above their “low”
at the week-end. Zinc Corps., most in-
teresting of the silver-lead group, keep
weak.
* * * *
Placer Development shares were
around 725. 3d. last week. This co. has
suffered heavily in the market because of
American connections. The undertaking
is now valued at around £2,600,000
(Aust.). If 1. dollar 20 cents is. paid each
year it would take about 10 years to
return the present price. Income is
improving.
Sjt * * ' *
Swedenborg North, N.L., has been
formed in Sydney to take up a 25-acre
lease alongside the property being
worked by the Swedenborg co. at
Charters Towers (Q.)- The public is
offered 80,000 shilling shares, and the
vendor takes £2OO cash and 20,000 f.-ps.
The property was worked from an under-
lie shaft 400 ft. deep in the ’eighties, with
what result the prospectus doesn’t say.
The co. alongside (formed 1934) struck a
rich shoot on its No. 5 level, which it
has followed up to No. 2 level; crush-
ings lately have yielded as much as
£6733 from 357 tons in a month. Sweden-
borg North .is going to pay its working
neighbor to drive the No. 6 North level
to the southern boundary of S. North’s
area, and
an extension and amplification of the
present arrangement will allow for the
continuation of the level into the heart
of this co.’s lease at a lower vertical depth
than that reached by the prospectors in
1888.
This is expected to provide shareholders
with
a daily interest in the development of their
lease at depth, without the expense and
delay of installing surface equipment and
clearing out the old shaft.
It sounds unusual mining practice, but
seems an economical idea. The pros-
pectus paints no rosy pictures other than
mentioning the present Swedenborg co.’s
results, and drawing attention to “the
possibility of similar rich shoots of gold
awaiting development in the adjoining
lease on the north side.” It is an obvious
gamble, but prospects are not embar-
rassed by a too-heavy vendors’ cut.
si>
A preliminary announcement of Mt.
Lyell’s profits should be out any day
now. As estimated here earlier,-it will
very likely work out at around 6s. a
share. Last week the market for the
stock continued depressed, seemingly
oversympathetic with world-market con-
ditions.
* * * *
Dr. Cecil Purser, speaking at Austra-
lian Drug’s meeting:
Each succeeding election is bringing forth
a promise that baby bonus, old-age pensions,
wil l be K increased, chiefly with the
object of obtaining votes. How much
wiser and better to compel every employee
to place something aside each week to
purchase an insurance annuity, to be
obtained,- say, at age 60. Such insurance
wou ld compel all to save and would avoid
the necessity of so much spoon-feeding by
Governments and extra taxation being irn-
posed upon those who do save,
.
.
Australian Drug has turned its overdraft
j n t 0 a mor tg a g e w ith the A.M.P. The
chief freehold is mostly let, and divs.
from Drug Houses are improving,
* ~ , f
_
Mowing suspension of the Big Ben
Lne rnnrprnino a di . s "
Pi* te concermn g claim rights, shares in
Montana Western Extended, the sponsor
aa I+u ’ , 2 P . ’
weakened to ss. 4d., although the Scrip
was already rights. Towards the
wee k-end 7s. 9d. was paid.
# * 1 *
c IJI ISSUC Y S weie dull again last week,
ff pe . r ° rs "™ ed “Me on Frlda y> to
“ s ‘ , dd ’ ’ l”/ 1 though folomas made
up about 6d. towards the end of the
week they could still be got around 18s.
Results of the first milling weren’t to
hand by last Saturday. Mt. Kasis—the
mine is on Viti Levu—have been in-
active lately at ss. 9d.


FOR FLEMINGTON.
Linlithgow Stakes: Ajax; next,
Pamelus.
Oaks: Ena; next, Miss Devlin.
Carnival Handicap: Courtcraft;
next, Bellevue.
Veteran Stakes: Gay Blonde;
next, Balkan Prince.
Batman Stakes: Courtcraft or
Sir Grey ; next, Bellevue.
Fisher Plate: Avenger, if started.
Otherwise Donaster ; next, Allunga.
V.R.C. Handicap: Bristol ; next,
Balkan Prince or Willie Win.
Final Handicap: Metro ; next,
Ramdin.
FOR MOOREFIELD.
Flying Welter: Mangoola ; next,
Stalin.
Moorefield Handicap: Tuckiar
or Journal; next, El Senorita.
Carlton Mile: Tuckiar or The
Marne; next, Korimako.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Avenger fell from his high estate in
the Victoria Derby. Backed from evens
down to 9 to 4 on, the Pantheon colt
was fairly and squarely beaten by Hua
and Ajax, both of whom he had defeated
in the Randwick classic. From a punters’
angle the result was disastrous. Three
rivals received preference over Hua,
whose winning price was 10 to 1. Actu-
ally twelves could have been had at one
stage.
Avenger may not have been suited by
the way in which the race was run,
though that does not seem a satisfactory
explanation. Badger handled Ajax with
admirable judgment. As was expected,
he took the brilliant chestnut to the
front, but had him under firm restraint.
The initial half-mile of the Derby
occupied 52sec. and the next four fur-
longs 54sec. —a rather miserable rate of
travelling on a track that was made to
order for galloping. But the concluding
half-mile took only 46^sec.
At the seven-furlongs pole Ajax led
by two lengths from Hua, who was a
similar distance in advance of John
Wilkes and Courtcraft (on terms), with
Avenger a length farther away. When
Avenger set out in pursuit of the leaders
after turning for home he did not repro-
duce the splendid finishing effort that
marked his A.J.C. Derby and Caulfield
Guineas displays.
Approaching the turn Avenger moved
up smartly, but he did not sustain the
run for more than 100 yards, and was
beaten shortly after entering the straight.
'‘He had every chance, but I don’t think
it was his best form,” Munro said after
the race.
Yet Avenger cannot be said to have
been disgraced. He finished only half a
length behind Ajax, who lost to Hua by
inches. Jack Holt, the trainer, could not
conceal his disappointment. No doubt
there will be compensation for him and
Percy Miller before the season ends.
Avenger has not been hurried in de-
velopment and may not reach fullness of
merit until the autumn.
The struggle between Hua and Ajax
over the concluding half-furlong will
long be remembered. Badger had nursed
his mount for a final burst of speed, but
Hua came home with bulldog courage
and gained a half-head victory. The
time, 2min. 32|sec., was l|sec. slower
than Feldspar’s record for the race.
Scobie declared that if the blue ribbon
contest had been run in 2min. 31 sec.
Hua would have won by three lengths.
First and second horses in the Derby
were sired by Heroic, who did C. B.
Kellow such wonderful service on the
turf. Earlier in the day Kellow had won
the valuable Maribyrnong Plate with
Nuffield, a Heroic colt of his own
breeding. Shooting away from his rivals
a furlong from home, Nuffield romped
past the judge 2} lengths in advance of
Bailey Pay ten’s Bush Bee (12 to 1), with
Lovable (16 to 1) a close third. Best
odds about Nuffield were 3 to 1; he
started at twos.
A feature of the Maribyrnong Plate
wagering was a heavy plunge on the
A.J.C. Gimcrack Stakes winner Gay
Romance. She shortened from 7 to 1 to
fours. The best that Gay Romance
could do was to finish seventh. Beau
Frere, who travelled none too kindly,
headed the unplaced division. Politesse
repeated her Sydney tricks by being left
at the post.
In the L. K. S. Mackinnon Stakes (for-
merly the Melbourne Stakes) Mala was
an even greater washout than Avenger
in the Derby. Bartle unwisely slowed
down the field in the middle stage of the
journey, and pace wasn’t on in real
earnest until the last half-mile, thrown
by in 47isec. The final six furlongs took
lmin. 13sec., as against lmin. 12£sec. in
the Derby.
Judged by his Randwick Plate display,
Mala likes to bowl along at his own
sweet will. Gay Blonde was allowed to
be too close to him in the Mackinnon
Stakes. She headed the favorite as they
faced for the box, and that really settled
Mala. He shaded Prince Quex a fur-
long from home, but then surrendered.
Ashley Reed, on The Trump, was “sit-
ting pretty” on the rails all the way.
With a lightning rush from the half dis-
tance The Trump (6 to 1) vanquished
Prince Quex (16 to 1) by a neck ; Allunga
(7 to 1) was only a neck farther off.
Allunga had to shift his ground at a criti-
cal point, and did really well to beat
Mala by half a head for third money.
Mohican (3 to 1 favorite) thoroughly
deserved his Cantala Stakes victory.
Pratted out at the start, he was much
nearer last than first in a field of 19
after two furlongs had been traversed.
When apparently out of the race on the
bend he unwound a phenomenal run,
which carried him to a half-length win
over King’s Head (33 to 1), with Regular
Bachelor (25 to 1) nearly a length farther
off.
The course record for a mile was low-
ered by Mohican to lmin. 35|sec. Pre-
vious best was lmin. 36isec., registered
by The Hawk in March, 1925, and
ALAN COOPER.
Owner of the £26,000 horses Talking
{now a casualty) and Mala. Since
August 28, when he began racing in the
Cooper colors, Mala has been ridden by
McCarten, W. Cook and Bartle. The
owner gave Wilson the mount in the
Melbourne Cup.
equalled by Young Idea last spring.
Young Idea finished a long way behind
Mohican on Saturday.
Oaks Stakes aspirants were tested over
a mile in the Wakeful Stakes. Honors
went to the Beau Fils filly Prairie Moon,
whose young trainer, Peter Muschialli,
rode on the flat until quite recently.
Amiable and Ena filled the minor places
in a closely fought out finish. After
being last away Miss Devlin ran fourth.
She will not lack support in the Oaks.
Keith Voitre had his first taste of
metropolitan success since his severe acci-
dent more than 12 months ago when he
landed the Hotham Handicap on Frill
Prince. Voitre showed all his old skill
in wearing down Willie Win, with the
fast-finishing Old Rowley third.
Mestoravon, the Sydney Cup winner,
was last home in the Hotham Handicap.
There was an excuse for him—it was dis-
covered afterwards that the animal had
got his tongue over the bit early in the
piece ; and they never win that way.
In combination with the gentlemen of
the Ring, Hua made betting history.
Never before did a colt who was one of
the Cup favorites that morning, and had
been actual favorite for weeks, go out
at 10 to 1 for the Derby, and it may
never happen again.
The age of miracles is not past. Syd-
ney bookmakers who bet on Melbourne
races, and who are locally renowned for
caution, offered 5 to 1 about Mohican
for the Cantala Stakes. On the other
hand, they had Hua at 6 to 1 for the
Derby, though one daring operator ac-
cepted small wagers at sevens.
Cup barrier positions: 1 Donaster, 2
Vaalmore, 3 The Chanter, 4 Frill Prince,
5 Allunga, 6 Bristol, 7 Nightguard, 8
The Trump, 9 Willie Win, 10 Mestoravon,
11 Alinura, 12 Balkan Prince, 13 Red
Ray, 14 Royal Messenger, 15 Gay
Knight, 16 Wotan, 17 Mascarades, 18
Black Mac, 19 Tapestry, 20 Sarcherie,
21 International, 22 Silver Standard, 23
Old Rowley, 24 John Wilkes, 25 Sir
Regent, 26 Mala, 27 Jack Horner, 28
Mutable, 29 Royal Step, 30 Hua.
* * * *
Randwick trainer Peter Riddle nearly
won a treble with his useful horses at
Canterbury on Saturday. His colors were
carried to victory by the two-year-old
Aeolus (9 to 4) and the nine-year-old
Celebrate —by the old fellow in the Can-
terbury Handicap. In the Ashbury Han-
dicap Korimako made a game effort to
complete the hat trick, but she was left
to do the pacemaking with 9st. 101 b.
Imbiber (4 to 1) was first to challenge
her in the last furlong, but Masterpiece,
backed from tens to fives, secured the
verdict —disputed by some backers —by
half a head. Korimako was only half a
length away.
Celebrate went out at 2 to 1, but
better was laid. He put up a course
record for nine furlongs—lmin.
The Magpie gelding carried 9st. 91b. He
was a long way back in the early part of
the race, but, turning for home, made
up his ground rapidly. Dulcedo cut him
off opposite the Leger, and there it looked
a good thing for the ex-Queenslander;
however, Celebrate was pulled to the
outside, and when he got clear he made
victory certain. El Senorita and Ver-
lina cut at each other and settled them-
selves. Autoland was last.
Brisbane sportsman Terry Ahern was
present to see his Corban filly Rosscor
score narrowly in the first division of
the Highweight, at 5 to 2. Mordent was
catching her at the finish and would have
won but for meeting with a check at the
turn. Bulldozer was third and Earl Sun
fourth. Ezra Norton’s Stalin (9 to 4) had
a long-overdue win in the second divi-
sion. He led throughout and scored from
Moaenza (7 to 2) and Night of Love (14
to 1).
Otto was a false favorite in the Park
Stakes. His rider fought with him in
the early stages, but when allowed his
head the nag merely plugged along.
Minnesota (6 to 1), a half-brother to
Chatham by Constant Son, led all the
way and won with his head on his chest.
St. Robert, a Wagga-owned and -trained
gelding, was second, with Amberdale
third. Young Max Papworth rode
Minnesota with capital judgment. He
also rode Rosscor and Masterpiece.
Rosehill trainer R. C. Stanton trains
Silorest, who captured the first division
of the Maiden in good style. Even more
impressive was Palarang in the second
division. A Manfred gelding, owned by
a Sydney hotelkeeper, Ken Wooldridge,
Palarang was never off the bit. He
started at 3 to 1 ; Silorest was at twos.
This Page’s selections (for four races
only) were Minnesota, Stalin, Celebrate
and Imbiber. Trying to pick ’em for the
Highweight Handicap, it gave “Stalin or
Moaenza (same stable); Night of Love
next.” In point of fact Stalin is trained
by Booth and Moaenza by Papworth.
The slip notwithstanding, they ran first,
second and third.
* * * *
The death on Derby day of J. A.
MacLeod removes from the ranks of
Victorian sportsmen one who was held
in the highest regard. MacLeod was a
V.R.C. committeeman. He had a special
fondness for jumpers, and won the Aus-
tralian Steeple with Gazomp and the
Grand National with Sandhurst, raced in
partnership with C. F. Taylor. On his
deathbed MacLeod extracted a promise
from Taylor that their galloper, Donaster,
would start in the Melbourne Cup what-
ever happened.
{Continued on next page.)
Ins and Outs
“Five Ways”: Since the Q.C.A. started
to distribute its fat divvy from the last
English team’s tour, its ear has been
bitten so mercilessly that it has an-
nounced that it has now buttoned up.
The association has taken on heavy com-
mitments in regard to the improvement
of the Brisbane Cricket Ground, while
next season does not hold out rosy
prospects of a big profit with only the
Sheffield games as an attraction.
* * * *
“Gabba”: Some misguided Queens-
landers are urging Hornibrook to return
to the Sheffield arena. The Test left-
hand bowler says that he has as much
intention of coming back to big cricket
as he has of entering for the women’s
events at the Empire Games. He still
plays in club cricket for the fun of it.
❖ %
Test bowlers are striking form early.
On Saturday Fleetwood-Smith took 6
for 14 for Melbourne against Prahran,
and in Sydney O’Reilly, wheeling ’em up
for St. George against Waverley, got 8
for 41. He collected the hat trick, and
bowled Fingleton for a duck with his
third ball.
* * * *
“Tenth Slip”: The Westralian
cricketers will come no farther than Syd-
ney, though a game against Queensland
would have been desirable from all points
of view. Skippered by Rowlands, of East
Perth, they play two games against Vic-
toria, one against a N.S.W. second team
and one against S. Aus. Lovelock,
Wilberforce, Zimbulis and Shea figured
against the last English team.
{Continued on next page.)
Racquet and Bawl
The trip away with the Davis Cuppers
has done Bromwich a lot of good. In
Brisbane on Saturday he beat Quist 6-0,
6-0, 6-3 in a semi-final of the Queensland
championships. Quist’s form was too
bad to be true, but the youngster never
gave him a chance to settle down —
Bromwich won the first 13 games. In the
other semi McGrath took four sets to
down the Queenslander Moon —8-6, 7-9,
6-1, 8-6.
# * *
“Centre Court”: Austin has shown
that he is far from being a back number
in tennis by winning the English covered
courts championship, defeating Borotra,
several times holder of the title, and
Schroeder, of Sweden, who won last year.
Austin has been supposed to lack
stamina, but he has now kept his position
in the front rank of tennis for a long
time. One reason probably is that he
refuses to overplay himself, and cuts out
many big events such as the American
and Continental championships if he
feels like it. There is a lesson for Aus-
tralian players here, but conditions are
hardly the same. Austin commands
ample means.
{Continued on page 30.)
N.S.W. Old G.P.S. Boys’ golf cham-
pionship was won this year by Jim Fer-
rier, who on his home course at Manly
finished one under par with a 71 card—
seven strokes better than the runner-up.
He also led Sydney Grammar’s team to
victory in the teams event, Grammar’s
score of 418 for a team of six being 14
better than, Shore in second place. E.
Rofe, of Newington, won the handicap
event with 67 —off the 19 mark.
* * * *
The Australian Rugby Leaguers in
England had a shandygaff week, win-
ning from Bradford North 19-6 and
going down to Salford —rated the most
powerful club in the Northern Union
by 11-8. The side plays three club games
before the second Test on November 13.


*
5
0
nuuf
be
A\| 5
JLUI
fg
Don't remain in doubt. No matter where you live
you can avail yourself of
FREE ART TESTS!
There is big money in Commercial Art-the pro-
fession of Advertisement Designing and Humorous
illustrating! ... Find out if YOU have talent which
can be turned to good account! . . . Send now
for our Art Ability Tests and make use of the
FREE CRITJCISM OFFER!
I
WHEN WRITING MENTION “THE BULLETIN ”
Training Institute
80 Stuanston St., Melbourne V.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN”
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
THE WORLD’S BEST GUNS
NEW —MODERN —FAMOUS
BY CHURCHILL-JEFFERY—HOLLOWAY & NAUGHTON LALOUX
Actually in stock at 560 Lonsdale Street, Melbourne, where you can shoot on our range and be certain that you get a gun that really suits
you. Ihis new department is in the care of Mr. J. Harrison, one of Australia’s Leading Trap and Field Shots. As well as being a
c ampion shot, Mr. Harrison has made a lifelong study of ballistics and technique of shotguns. He and other expert members of our staff
place themselves at your disposal.
E. J. CHURCHILL, OF LONDON,
Prices from £35 to £175
'•s-Sjs*
W. J. JEFFERY & CO., LTD., LONDON,
Prices from £32/10/- to £l5O
As is well known to all shooters
London-made guns represent the high-
water mark of the gun-making world.
Both the above London makers
specialise in producing long-range guns
specially suitable for Duck and Fox
shooting. These are the guns we recom-
mend for the man in the back country.
Holloway & Naughton are makers of
a good range of trap and field guns.
Many guns of this make are already in
use in Australia and give extreme satis-
faction to their owners.
For the popular priced gun Laloux has
been a leading Belgian maker for many
years, and the guns he is sending us, both
hammer and hammerless, in .12 down to
.410 bore, are strongly built and of good
weight. The twelves weigh not less than
71b. and run up to 7flb. These are not
frail weapons built down to a price, but
guns you can produce in the best com-
pany, without fear of criticism. Stocked
in both ejector and non-ejector.
HOLLOWAY & NAUGHTON, BIRMINGHAM,
Prices from £lB/7/6 to £3l
m
GEORGES LALOUX, BELGIAN,
Prices from £2/17/6 to £l5
SEND FOR OUR
BEAUTIFULLY
ILLUSTRATED
CATALOGUE.
futACexi £luuv (yuccessobs
(D. & W. Chandler, Ltd.)
560-566 LONSDALE STREET, MELBOURNE
TELEPHONES: CENTRAL 187-188.
SOLE
AUSTRALIAN
LOADERS OF THE
WORLD FAMOUS
"RHENWEST"
CARTRIDGES.
Under the Whip
Melbourne Cup betting on Saturday
morning indicated that even the Ring
was prepared to admit that there had
rarely been a more open Cup race. Aver-
age quotations were 8 to 1 Hua, The
Trump and Mala, 12 to 1 John Wilkes
and Balkan Prince, 14 to 1 Wotan, Sir
Regent and Silver Standard, 20 to 1
Black Mac and Flood Tide, 25 to 1
Sarcherie, Allunga, Vaalmore, Old
Rowley and Donaster, 33 to 1 Bristol,
Willie Win and Frill Prince, 50 to 1
Mestoravon, 100 to 1 Alinura, Mutable,
Jack Horner, Nightguard and Royal
Step, 200 to 500 to 1 others. Some
bookmakers had Bristol 25 to 1. During
the week 50 to 1 had been offered, but
a couple of good gallops—with Silver
Standard on one occasion and Royal
Step on the other—brought the price
down.
On the course last year it was 10 to 1
bar four (3 Talking, 7 Silver Standard
and Desert Chief, 8 Mala); Wotan was
100 to 1. In Marabou’s year it was 10
to 1 bar five (9 to 2 Marabou, 6 Sar-
cherie, Hot Shot and Allunga, 8 Peter
Pan). In 1934, because of the going,
Peter Pan drifted to 14 to 1. Sir Simper
and Nightly were joint favorites at 9
to 2. Broad Arrow, Limbohm and Theo
were 10 to 1. Sarcherie (second) was
50 to 1.
* * * *
Carbine carried more weight (lOst.
51b.) and beat more opponents (38) than
any other Cup winner has done. Also
his time (3min. 28isec.) was the fastest
that had ever been recorded, and his
figures stood for 15 years—Blue Spec
cut them to 3min. 27isec. in 1905. In
Banker’s year (1863) there were only
seven runners. Since then fields, have
rarely fallen below 20, and have time and
again exceeded 30, though not since
King Ingoda’s year (1922), when there
were 32 runners. For the five years
1928-1932 inclusive they were much
below the average. Statesman (1928)
was one of 17, Nightmarch (1929) one
of 14, Phar Lap (1930) one of 15 and
White Nose (1931) one of 14. As The
Bulletin went to press the contract
before this year’s Cup winner was to beat
twice as many nags as any of those
horses had to meet.
* X * *
“W.J.E.”: I haven’t seen a Melbourne
Cup since 1899, Merriwee’s year. Merri-
wee was a good colt, but not in the
same class as Newhaven (1896) or
Aurum, third to Gaulus and The Grafter
in 1897. Even though I haven’t seen a
Cup race for 38 years, I am positive
that performance has never been ex-
celled by a three-year-old. Aurum car-
ried Bst. 61b., and was only a little horse.
Gaulus was a five-year-old with 7st. 81b!
and The Grafter a four-year-old with
7st. 71b., and each could have won
weight-for-age races. The Grafter, in-
deed, was as good then as when he won
the Cup in 1898 with 9st. 21b., and prob-
ably better than when, an old horse, he
won the City and Suburban. Aurum had
a perfect action —in galloping he just
skimmed the ground. Mrs. Langtry
bought him for English racing, and trials
convinced his English trainer that he
was far and away the best Australian
horse that ever reached England—and
among them were Merman, Newhaven,
Australian Star and Georgic—but the
little champion broke down and never
raced in England: Perhaps that great
Melbourne Cup effort was too much for
him.
Ins and Outs
“Glenelg”: The dozen “South Austra-
lians” picked to meet the Maorilanders
in the four-day game beginning on Guy
Fawkes Day include six outlanders.
Robinson is in, and so is Ward, who has
been getting some fine bags in club
cricket.
* ♦ afs
“Mid Leg”: With the fading away of
the Gregory clan, the family influence
has not been so marked in Australian
cricket as of yore. Ron Noble, a son
of “M.A.,” appears to be likely to revive
the tradition. Playing for Sydney
Grammar against Newington, the lad
ran up 115 in a style which suggested
that he has a bright cricket future if all
goes well.
* * * *
E. A. Tyler was one of those silent
workers who do so much to build up
the standard of our cricket. His death
in Sydney, at 69, robs the N.S.W.C.A.
of an honorary treasurer who gave 22
years of his life to the thankless job. A
club player in Newcastle, where he was
a ’keeper of some note, Tyler became
identified with the Petersham district
club in Sydney, and was its first life-
(,Continued on next page.)


Instant Ignition
Greater Power
Output
PYROX
LICENCE BOSCH 5 ’ tach ‘
SPARK PLUGS
1/3/37
"silver edge*
BRAKE LINING
trade mark U registered, the RAYBESTOS CO.
MOpßlflfr SAVE
lEGISTERED. THt KAYofcoiuo v-u. a
MONEY/
, There is never any true economy in cheap articles;
particularly does this apply to your motor vehicle s brakes.
Your safety and the safety of pedestrians depend upon the
reliability of your brakes.
For over twenty years “RAYBESTOS” Brake Linings have main-
tained a name for quality, building up a reputation for consistency of
product unrivalled by any other firm. It will prove cheaper in the long run
if you ask for your brakes to be relined with “RAYBESTOS.”
RAYBESTOS-BELACO, LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Factory Rep.: JOHN ARNOLD, G.P.O. Box 71, Melbourne. Vic.
Plan your trip to Europe
by the scenic and pleasure
route through Canada
and her famous Rockies.
QtMaJiaMQitifac
247 George Street, Sydney
5 3 William Street, Melbourne
Canadian Pacific Rly. Co., Inc. in Canada
member. He was for years a delegate
to the C.A. from the club before taking
over the treasury in 1915.
# * * #
“Aigburth”: Tall poppyheads are
being lopped in the English cricket field.
Warwickshire is superseding Wyatt as
skipper by Cranmer. Wyatt —still one of
the best batsmen in England, and only
36 —has a Surrey qualification and will
be welcomed by that county. Cranmer
is described as “breezy” and is an Oxford
blue as well as a Rugby international.
Nineteenth Hole
“Trevdee”: Although left - handed
golfers are plentiful in U.S.A. (B.
6/10/’37) there are no champions among
them —at least, that’s what Sarazen said
in a talk over the air when he was out
here in 1936. He referred to Harry Wil-
liams as a freak, adding “I believe that
if Williams turned round and started to
play right-handed he’d be an even
better player than he is.”
Williams was beaten in a quarter-final
of the Victorian amateur championship,
which he has won three times, by Hamil-
ton, of Royal Melbourne, who had de-
feated Ryan. Hamilton was himself
ousted by Higgins, and Higgins won the
title.
* * * *
“Brass Addler”: No wonder these
professionals run to costly raiment and
Rolls-Royce cars —in their dreams. Eric
Cremin, who won the Australian and
N.S.W. professional championships,
pouched the huge total of £5O for the
two events. In America and even in
Britain a leading professional would con-
sider that sum a fair reward for the
chap who caddied for them. Still, the
win has some advantages in the way of
a job as demonstrator in some sports-
goods store or other while the glamor of
the title sticks.
* * * *
“Divot Digger”: The only official golf
event on the N.S.W. 150th anniversary
programme will be an open amateur
tourney promoted by the trustees of the
Armistice Cup fund. The Cup is played
for annually, the proceeds going to the
dependants of soldiers who have passed
on. The next annual meeting will be at
Concord (N.S.W.) on November 11, and,
if other States join in as is hoped, the
Celebrations event next year is expected
to attract 10,000 nominations. Any
amateur on below a 24 handicap may
enter on payment of 2s. Professionals
are not eligible owing to the decision of
the Celebrations Committee to confine all
sporting events to amateurs. The Legacy
Club handles the fund.
* * * *
“Divot Digger”: Gard, the N.S.W.
golfer, is out to put up a new marathon
golf record. The standing record is to
the credit of a Yank who played 246
holes in 2\\ hours, walking 70 miles
while doing it. Some years ago Gard did
218 holes and walked 41 miles in the pro-
cess. This time he will start at 2.30 a.m.
on the North Brighton (N.S.W.) course
and play—he hopes —288 holes by even-
ing. December 19 is the date fixed for
the essay.
* * * *
“Brassey”: Sarazen is threatening to
invade this country again, this time with
“a real golfer.” When he wrote a Syd-
ney friend Gene said he was starting a
tour of India, Japan and the Philippines,
before coming to Australia, a programme
which seems liable to unforeseen varia-
tions.
* * * *
“Lakeside”: Jimmy Thomson, who
won the Melbourne centenary open
championship and astonished all hands
with his tremendous hitting, specialises
in driving competitions. Last year he
picked up the American long-driving
title with a smack of 347 yards, and he has
now topped all records with a drive of
386 yards, which brought him a £2OO
prize in Canada. In Britain, where rigid
conditions have to be observed, no golfer
has yet topped 300 yards, taking the
average of three drives.
* * * *
“Hoylake”: Consistency was rewarded
when Charles Whitcombe, of the famous
English professional golfing family of
that name, won the first Harry Vardon
memorial trophy. This goes to the
player with the best average in impor-
tant events during the season. Whit-
combe averaged 71.62 for 24 rounds, his
highest score in six competitions of 72
holes each being 294 and his lowest 282.
* * * *
“Carnoustie”: English golfers are dis-
cussing a return to the old gutty ball to
counteract the tendency of the modern
cored pill to convert golfers into long-
distance swipers. The best driver can
get only half the length with a gutty that
he can with a modern pill; on the other
hand, the old ball is easier to putt with,
being far less lively. And it is ideal for
short approach shots, in which it pitches
dead and almost without run. Other points
which should specially commend them-
selves to Scots are its cheapness and the
fact that it lends itself to amateur repair
work. If badly cut by irons, its soft
nature making it liable to that sort of
thing, it can easily be warmed in an oven
or over the gas and rolled to a colorable
imitation of its pristine perfection. In
writer’s golfing childhood it was possible
to buy for half a crown a small machine
which, when the warmed ball was in-
HOW CARBINE WON THE MELBOURNE CUP.
From the first “instantaneous” photograph of a Cup finish. It was taken by the
late Fred Murphy, brother of E.G. (“Dryblower”) Murphy, the Westralian bard.
The mystery of what was in the mind of the little fellow walking away from the
finish has never been unravelled.
serted in it, reproduced the criss-cross
pattern on the surface at a single squeeze.
With one of these gadgets and an ad-
herence to wooden clubs as much as
possible, the thrifty could make one gutty
do good service for a season.
Racquet and Bawl
• “Rev. Knucklebone”: Yankee enthu-
siasts are suggesting that Davis Cup
teams be increased to eight players, as
under the present system a star like
Perry or Budge can win the Cup for
his country without material assistance
from anyone else. The idea has its draw-
backs. Many countries would be unable
to afford larger teams, and in any case
the rules would have to be altered to
make it compulsory for the extra players
to get a game instead of sitting in the
stands while a couple of cracks do all the
performing. Further, larger teams would
give selectors more opportunities to load
teams up with burned-out chaps. We
have had plenty of that under the pre-
vailing system.
* * * *
“Toowong”: Quist has told a Brisbane
interviewer that he is in favor of Aus-
tralia sending a Davis Cup team away
next year. He put in a good word for
Schwartz, who, he says, with the experi-
ence to be gained on an overseas tour,
would become a champion. Quist tells
a quaint story of Roderick Menzel, who
so delighted Australians with his antics.
Rod makes it his special business to warn
intending tennis visitors to Australia of
the disadvantages of mingling with the
“cannibals,” as he was good enough to
call us. Budge was made a special reci-
pient of these warnings when at Wimble-
don.
* * * *
“Rev. Knucklebone”: The recent ver-
botens notwithstanding, McGrath and
Thompson are reported to have played
night-tennis. Excuses have been advanced,
one by the president of the N.S.W.L.T.A.:
“as far as I can remember,” the tourna-
ment in question was sanctioned before
the restrictions were imposed. A lesser
official pleaded that there was no indica-
tion in the regulations —issued September
27 —as to when they should begin to
operate.
* * * *
“Milton”: Queensland tenniseers are
gratified to find that they are to have a
visit from the U.S.A. women’s team after
all, the American girls being listed to
show in Brisbane on November 19 and
20. The Queenslanders have a tremen-
dous opinion of Miss Hardcastle, and
consider that a trial against the Ameri-
cans should clinch the damsel’s claims
for the team to visit Europe.
* * * *
“Rev. Knucklebone”: N.S.W. tennis
championships, to begin in Sydney on
Saturday, will be confined to N.S.W.
and Victorian players. In a fit of eco-
nomy the Sydney chiefs decided that
they could not pay the expenses of the
visitors this year, so players like
Schwartz, Turnbull, Moon, Miss O’Hal-
loran, Mrs. Westacott and Miss Hard-
castle will be missing.
* * * *
“Top Spin”: A landslide to profes-
sionalism is threatened in the U.S.A.
Helen Wills-Moody and Alice Marble are
said to be signing on the dotted line, and
Frank Parker’s name is listed for secesh,
though one would think he had sc^ ce
proved himself sufficiently to be a dra -
card in a stunt that calls for top note
players only. As to the women, it
interesting to see how they fare. So ia
female professionalism has been a iros .
Miscellaneous
Sydney wasn’t long without its dogs
(B. 20/10 / ’37). It missed one Saturday
night; then Gosford started running
meetings, and owners, trainers and punters
went along by car or train. Now the
Government has decided to let the
Harold Park people carry on till the
end of the year, and says it can put the
bill through in time for a meeting on
November 20. Next year it will issue
two metropolitan licenses for 52 meetings
altogether.
* * * *
“Stand Off”: Australian Rugby Union
addicts got a shock when the All-Blacks
cancelled their proposed tour of Aus-
tralia next season. It will be a setback
to the Australian unions, which usually
turn a fair penny from the visits of the
famous players. There is no doubt the
decision marks the beginning of a purge
which will make the best efforts of Stalin
and Hitler look piffling. The heavy de-
feats by the Springboks, following on the
not very successful tour of Britain, have
evidently determined the M.L. Rugby
heads to set their house in order. Writer
ventures to tip that the first application
of the axe will be to the Rugby League
rules as to touch-finding, which have
done so much to spoil genuine forward
play since they were
adopted. It is to be hoped
that the Union heads in
Australia follow suit be-
fore it is too late.
The M.L. Union offers
to come along in 1939,
but, as an Australian
team is due to leave for
England by the end of
July, that may not fit in.
As the All-Blacks go to
South Africa in 1940, it
may be a long time before
we see the silver fern on
this side again.
* N= *
“Gate”: The Rugby
League team now in Eng-
land is to return by the
U.S.A. and play exhibition
matches there. New
York, ’Frisco and Van-
couver are the chief
centres selected for the ex-
hibitions. In all these
places the amateur Union
code is established in a
quiet way.
“Fitzcray”: The V.F.L. is to make an
early start with its premiership competi-
tion next year —April 23. The season is
expected to finish by the end of Sep- *
tember. South Australians and West-
ralians are to play in Melbourne on May
28 and King’s Birthday respectively. St.
Kilda and South Melbourne sides will
go to Westralia, while Fitzroy and Essen-
don send teams to Tasmania.
* * * *
“Hawthorn”: Henley-on-Yarra authori-
ties came close to abandoning the now-
famous fixture for this year at least, but
decided to give it one more flutter. In
the last few years the promoters have
dropped over £4OOO, and owing to the
open banks of the Yarra providing an
ideal Scotchman’s gallery there is little
hope of better takings in the small en-
closure at the finish. In the past the com-
mittee spent a very large sum in allow-
ances to crews visiting the regatta. This
year such contributions will be cut out.
* * * *
“Blade”: N. S. Wales will probably
have two eights at Henley-on-Yarra. By


Meeting.
THE PERMANENT TRUSTEE
COMPANY OF NEW SOUTH
WALES, LIMITED.
THE FIFTIETH ORDINARY GENERAL MEETING
ctf Members will be held at the Council Room, Second
Floor, Manufacturers’ House, 12 O’Connell Street,
Sydney, on TUESDAY, 9th NOVEMBER, 1937, at
2.15 p.m.
BUSINESS.
1. —To receive the Directors’ Report and Balance
Sheet to the 30th September, 1937.
2. To consider and if thought fit to pass a reso-
lution increasing the number of Directors of
the Company to six in accordance with the
recommendation of the Board.
3. —To elect one Director in place of Mr. F. N.
Yarwood, who retires under Clause 82 of the
Articles of Association, and who offers himself
for re-election.
1. —To elect one Director in place of Mr. W. G.
Hull (appointed to fill the vacancy caused by
the death of Mr. j. H. S. Angus), who offers
himself for re-election.
5. —In case the above resolution No. 2 is 'passed,
to elect an additional Director. Mr. A. E.
Bond has given notice that he is a candidate
for the position of Director and he is. recom-
mended for election by the Board.
*>•—To consider and if thought fit to pass the
following resolution, notice of which has been
given by a shareholder:—•
RESOLUTION.
“That the Directors’ remuneration (which
for the last sixteen y6ars has been at the
rate of £l5OO per annum) shall as from
the Ist October, 1937, be increased by
£lOOO, the total sum of £2500 per annum
to be divided amongst them in such manner
as they shall settle between themselves.”
7-—To elect Auditors in place of Messrs. Robert W.
Nelson & Go., Chartered Accountants (Aust.)
(who retire under Clause 131 of the Articles of
Association and are eligible for re-election),
and to fix the amount of their remuneration.
8. —To consider any other business of which due
notice shall have been given in accordance with
the Articles of Association.
By Order of the Board.
J. W. BARNES,
Manager.
The Share Register will be closed from 27th
October, 1937, to 9th November, 1937, inclusive.
PERMANENT TRUSTEE BUILDING,
23-25 O’Connell Streef, Sydney.
19th October, 1937.
NEW
f THE
“MANEROO”
POLEY
SADDLE,
£l2/5/-
(MOUNTED).
It is made of
quality k i p
leather. Flaps
and skirts are
23Jin. long. The
stirrup bars are
free and the tree has
a solid gullet plate.
WALTHER k STEVEMSOM "S:
395 CEORCE ST. SYDNEY
THE
AUSTRALIAN
ART EXHIBITION
THE MACLEOD GALLERY
BULLETIN BUILDINGS,
252 George Street, Sydney
(Near Bridge Street).
The leading Exhibition of
Australian Art—latest works
by the most prominent
Australian Artists always on
view and for sale.
OPEN DAILY,
ADMISSION FREE.
Telephone: 87971.
Crossings are Dangerous
mm
,y
i
mm
#
■
> V?
m
It
m
Casing construction of ordinary tyrea.
Notice howthraads(wefls)crosscasing cords.
especially those in Tyres
These are no crossing cords {wefts)
to cause dangerous wear
from friction and heat in
DUNLOP
Weftless cord tyres
Weftless Cord is exclusive to Dunlop interests in Australia
Dunlop Perdriau invites you to listen to “DUNLOP
PRESENTS”—-Radio’s finest entertainment. Consult your
Local Broadcasting Programmes for Stations and Times.
W
&
1
Weftless Cord Casing: All Cords run
parallel, completely encased in. rubber.
m
i
im
DUNLOP PERDRIAU RUBBER CO. LTD., (INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA)
winning the Boone Cup the North Shore
club is officially entitled to make the
trip as N.S.W. representative, but the
Police club has also decided to compete
in the Grand Challenge. The meeting
will be a momentous one for Australian
oarsmen, for after it selector Keary will
choose the Australian eights, fours and
sculling representatives for the Empire
Games rowing in N.S.W.
* * * *
“Tuck”: People who affect 12ft. sail-
ing skiffs are something like the three
wise gentlemen who went to sea in a
bowl. Maorilanders were recently invited
to send a boat of the type over for the
anniversary championships, but found
craft of the sort were non-existent on
their side of the Tasman. Thereupon the
Akarara Y.C. very sportingly contrived
the building of a vessel. It will arrive in
Sydney shortly and take part in various
events before the big show by way of
getting its eye in. The boat will be sailed
in Sydney by a local helmsman, Drake.
* ■* * *
“Top Gear”: Opperman has been
collecting bike-pushing records for so
long that he’s come to be regarded as
quite a veteran at the game. Still only 33,
he’s not old as cyclists go. In Westralia
now, last week he added another record
to his list, 7hr. 48min. for the 165 miles
of road —rough in parts —between Mer-
redin and Perth. On Friday he’s to start
off from Perth pedalling to Sydney, the
3017 miles the longest distance he’s yet
attempted. Oppy says he can knock
days off the 18 days 18£ hours best •
time, done by W. Read.
“Cone Clutch”: Malcolm Campbell’s
fastest spin has been bettered, though
the Englishman, E. G. T. Eyston,
who improved on Campbell’s figures
can’t claim the record. Campbell in 1935
put up a 301.1292 m.p.h. average for a
two-way run, and now Eyston in his
Thunderer has done 309.6 m.p.h. at the
same place, Bonneville Salt Flats in
Utah, U.S. But he didn’t come back
over the course, and Campbell’s time
stands. Eyston’s bus is a two-engined
job, both 12-cylinder Rolls-Royce aeros.,
developing 6000 brake-horsepower to the
2350 of Campbell’s single motor.
* * * *
“Blade Sight”: The February shoot ol
the National Rifle Association, which is
the rifleman’s contribution to the 150th
anniversary jamboree, promises to be a
record in the matter . of entries. The
camp at the Holdsworthy (N.S.W.) range
is good for about 2000 men, but it may
have to be enlarged. Not only that, but,
in addition to the many women shooters’
applications for rail concessions, wives
will accompany their menfolk, and
special arrangements have to be made
for the ladies. New buildings are going
up for the caterers and the administra-
tion offices, and extra targets are being
provided on the long ranges.
* »s * *
“Splash”: Maoriland is to be invaded
by a N.S.W. water-polo team. Two
members from each club will make up
the side, which will be in M.L. from
March 12 to March 26. Before it leaves
the annual clash between N.S.W. and
Victoria for the Australian champion-
ship and the Regal Cup that goes with
it will take place in Sydney.
* =!= * *
“Poley”: An Australian team of
roughfiders under Lance Skuthorpe has
been booked for a season of 30-40 weeks
in the U.S.A. by Ringland and Barnum
and Bailey’s circus combination. The
men are to ride Australian fashion, and
must be expert with the stockwhip and
boomerang as well. A feature of the
Australian methods which is expected to
make the Yanks sit up is the throwing of
cattle by “tailing”—unknown in America,
where the lasso is used.
* * *
“Spare Walton”: The game-fishing
clubs of Australia have banded together
in Sydney and formed a Federal body
which is to stagger along under the title
of the Big-Game Rod-Fishing Association
of Australia. Its first important job is to
be to help with the anniversary spree
fishing contest in N.S.W. Most of the
States now have big-fish organisations,
though these are in the raw as yet. Per-
haps the most ambitious start has been
made in Queensland. Before it had
caught a fish, the Queensland concern
sent to London for special fish-weighing
scales to accommodate tiddlers up to
15cwt.
* * * #
“Mat”: Touching those amended
bowls terms (B. 20/10/ ’37). Once on a
time, when recorder of bowls events for
a Sydney weekly which posed as the
official organ of the roll-’em-up brigade,
I criticised the performance of a city
club—referred to the pitiable “tally” it
had compiled in a match with a hated
rival. Next time I waited on the club I
noticed a certain coolness. Watching a
game from the “bank,” I was attracted by
the threatening demeanor of one ancient
who, whenever he came up to my end
of the rink, snorted ferocious disapproval,
obviously of myself. At last he could
contain himself no longer. “Tally!” he
burst out. “Tally! Does the blanker
take us for a lot of blanked wharf-
laborers?”


SUNDRY
SHOWS
“Vogues , ? “Wings” and Color .
Two of the best recent pictures—
“ Wings of the Morning” and “Vogues
of 1938” —are in color, and the color
has most to do with their attractiveness.
The color in “Wings of the Morning”
is very rich, leaving an impression of
one’s having passed through a big gal-
lery hung with large-scale landscapes
done in oils. It would not be half the
picture it is without the color, which lifts
out certain bits so arrestingly that the
film is worth seeing twice on their ac-
count alone.
The landscapes impression comes from
a large part of it being set in the open
in Ireland, with Erin’s typical scenic
beauty freely exploited.
Some of the shots are very lovely. One
of waving reedtops —an item of the wide
sweep of scenes taken in while John Mc-
Cormack is singing “Killarney”—is as
real as if the reeds were growing there.
There are also superb interiors. One
of these —in a church where an Irish-
gentry-gipsy wedding is taking place —
gives an impression of some large Old
Master suddenly becoming animated and
alive.
Another striking bit is a shot of an owl
in a lighted stable at night. It gives the
illusion of actually seeing the big bird
there as a living thing.
Another living item is when the young
leading lady Annabella halts coming
downstairs in a red evening frock. The
illusion of actual life is again extraordi-
nary.
Also very effective is a shot of jockey
Steve Donghue in gold hoops crouched
on a great brown horse’s withers. In
other shots the color gives an arresting
reality to striking chestnuts and other
blood horses.
In such bits the color plays a positive
part in heightening the dramatic force
of situations. In the other picture,
“Vogues of 1938,” it serves the purposes
of comedy equally well.
For instance, a scene in which a
haughty sassiety lady’s gold-bead dress
comes undone in public. The shower
thereof would be amusing enough with-
out the color; with the color it is like
witnessing the actual disaster.
The color in this film is not so rich
as in “Wings of the Morning,” and, if
anything, it is all the better on that ac-
count. That of “Wings of the Morning”
seems well suited to the purposes of
romance which it is serving ; the more
restrained color of “Vogues of 1938”
leaves an impression of everyday reality.
And, of course, it is of incalculable value
in aiding this film in its main business,
which is showing off mannequin-paraded
frocks.
Texture is so enhanced by the color
that the materials can almost be felt.
Furs become extraordinarily real, and
one dress in particular—a shot blue and
red —is a masterpiece of reproduction.
The color, too, helps the blonde beauty
of the leading lady, Joan Bennett, so re-
markably that it is probably it which is
responsible for the Bennett’s acting seem-
ing to be the best she has ever done.
And not only does the color leave a
feeling of how less good these good pic-
tures would be without it; having seen
them, one is inclined to thinking how
much better this, that and the other good
picture would be if they, too, were in
color. For example, the Sonja Henie ice-
skating picture, “Thin Ice,” or “A Day
at the Races” with the Marx Brothers.
On current bills, too, there’s a short pic-
turing the Yates flower nurseries in the
Derwent Valley (Tas.). In color it would
be glorious. For travel-talk pictures color
is already indispensable.
Color, in fact, has now been developed
to a stage where it would improve any
picture done in it. A striking virtue of
it, too, is that it is very easy on the eyes;
daily tasting of pictures involves far
less eyestrain with color films.
Altogether, the merits are so many
that this showman confidently expects all
pictures to be in color before another
twelve months are out. That will, of
course, leave the stage show robbed of
yet one more of its few remaining
superior features.
The Marxes Flop.
With a terrible suddenness the Marx
Brothers’ “A Day at the Races” has
ended its brief run at Sydney St. James.
The theatre isn’t even waiting, as usual,
Warner Baxter, Mischa Auer, Joan Bennett, in “Vogues of 1938“ at Sydney
State.
for the week-end. Off it comes in mid-
week ; and no doubt the theatre is left
hoping it won’t see the illustrious brothers
around that way again for a long time.
Yet as a Marxian picture it was an
extra good one. It was packed with rib-
cracking comedy, and an uncommonly
wide variety of comedy at that —smart,
clever dialogue; uproariously funny
situations ; ludicrous characterisations ;
whimsically funny fantasy; slapstick
farce.
Its only ill-effect on at least one
Marxian addict was to leave his laughter-
machinery completely worn out long
before the end. He was simply unequal
to the task of going on laughing all the
way through it. And the night he went
along the theatre fairly rocked with
laugh noises from all parts.
Still, there is the fact—people won’t
have the Marx Brothers. It would be
utterly foolish, of course, to dismiss that
with a scoff at the public lack of critical
discernment. The public more often than
not has made no mistake about gener-
ally acknowledged great pictures. At the
same time it would be equally absurd to
accept public dislike as an infallible
barometer: it needs only to be recalled
that “Man" of Aran” was as great a flop
in Sydney as “A Day at the Races.”
One explanation for the Marxian wash-
out might be that there is a definite same-
ness about all their efforts. Addicts do
not mind this, but to most people it
might well become very tedious.
A more searching explanation is that
probably the Marxes hit too many people
where they live. Their humor is possibly
too ruthlessly personal for most people
to stomach comfortably. They do not
merely poke fun at human foibles ; they
pillory them, and there paste them witli
savage satire. , ,
It is a long-established truth that most
people don’t like satire. Humor that
merely, pokes fun harmlessly at surface
foibles and failings everybody can
tolerate and most can enjoy. It enter-
tains. Satire doesn’t entertain ; it either
stimulates, or it cuts to tatters. And
there is the feeling with the Marx
Brothers that they aim to get their laughs
mostly in this way, and very savagely, at
the expense of human nature.
What probably caps their sins—from
a box-office point of view—is that they
make a business of scoring their heaviest
at the expense of women. They specialise
in walking clumsy-footed over all
woman’s dearest vanities.
Anyway, to-day, in haste, they are torn
off the St. James screen; and on come
Laurel and Hardy, those good, honest
makers of harmless fun.
“Dark Journey ”
Conrad Veidt and Vivien Leigh.
Another shot at exploiting the dramatic
possibilities of espionage, 1918 vintage,
and an extra good one.
Set chiefly in Stockholm in a frock
shop that cloaks a pretty little nest of
spying, with shifts to Paris and to sea,
it is strong and logical in plot, and clever
directing, fine photography and excellent
acting make it dramatic and convincing.
It opens with a passenger ship being
held up on the high seas hy a submarine
and a boarding party from the sub. pick-
ing out a girl among the passengers on
suspicion over her passport. Then the
scene switches back to Stockholm, events
leading to the scene at sea are lived
through, then on a little way past the sea
scene to complete the story.
Pretty well everybody who makes an
appearance is a spy on one side or the
other, and dramatic suspense is admir-
ably managed by leaving the audience
full opportunity of picking who is who
and where it is all leading. There are
good twists in it; Veidt has a part peij
fectly suited to his fine talent; Miss Leigh
is decorative and a fairly good dramatic
actress; and a wide range of support is
very sound.
The picture would have been better
without the last scene —lady spy calling
across the heaving waters to gentleman
spy “I’ll be wa/t-ing!” —but, this poor
piece of pathos apart, it is, of its kind,
a tiptop entertainer.
“Dark Journey” is due at Sydney
Lyceum this week.
“Time Marches On”
There is no question that in news-reel
pictures these are masterly. Finely
photographed, subjects well chosen and
assisted by film sub-editing which makes
every shot in each brief presentation
count, they place before an audience in
a few minutes information which would
take weeks of solid study to accumulate.
Of course, it must be very doubtful
whether information thus easily obtained
is much digested. It comes a bit too
easily to leave the indelible impression
made by reading. Also, there is so much
of this sort of information constantly
pouring out to audiences from all manner
of shorts that a mind absorbing it all
would be cluttered like a junk shop.
The truth probably is that in the mak-
ing of well-informed minds it is all not
a tenth as effective as it might appear to
be ; but the entertainment value of such
films is, Of course, very high.
When they step into the propaganda
business, however —which is often —they
are not such unmixed blessings. An
example of this is the Poland portion of
the current “Time Marches On” at Syd-
ney State. What side the propaganda
takes is immaterial: the fact that it is
propaganda is what matters.
In this instance it is extremely savage
propaganda against Germany. It is
shaped to convey the idea that Poland
has armed not as part of the wave of
arming that has swept Europe generally
but as an urgent precaution against
attack by Germany and no other country
except Germany.
Even though it shows a shot of Hitler
assuring Poland that the 10 years’ non-
aggression scheme will be faithfully
adhered to by his country, its commen-
tator emphasises that Germany has
broken treaties. To people who take all
their information from films —who have
not troubled, for instance, to learn why
Germany broke the Versailles treaty and
why Britain and France merely looked
on when that happened—such propa-
ganda is probably effective enough. As
is also, no doubt, the closing part of
this Poland film, the impression conveyed
by which is that Germany is behind all
anti-Jewish pogroms in Poland.
Apart from all such propaganda,
which everyone needs to weigh as propa-
ganda unless he is content to be mis-
informed and misled, these “Time
Marches On” films are very fine, and
this one at the State has extremely inter-
esting stuff in it, including an arresting
portion dealing with erosion ruining
farmlands on a vast scale in America.
It makes the statement that farmlands in
10 States have been ruined ; altogether
100,000,000 acres destroyed. Finely pic-
tured, with great rolling duststorms —
the land visibly driving away and leav-
ing desert —it is extraordinarily dramatic.
“On Again, Off Again.”
Wheeler and Woolsey.
Main item in Sydney Capitol’s cur-
rent bill, this is typical Wheeler and
Woolsey tomfoolery.
They’re wrangling partners in a pill
firm, just about driving their solicitor
to commit hara-kiri by their vacillating
over dissolving the partnership. Fairly
boiling, he at last draws up a contract
to settle this trouble once and for all.
By any means they care to pick on-
pistols and coffee, two-up, a hundred-
yard sprint, broadswords, or whatever
they fancy—they’ll decide which will
run the show as sole head for 12 months,
the other to be his flunkey.
They wrestle for it; the loser’s in-
stalled in the winner’s house as flunk.,


■
ttSA
U ■
£ 'i&MrtSsSR
Jr ■• ‘:: il
Y/^^MgtSßSj^^
'j'gg.
Set. No. 77. —Improved two-piece razor, two blade-holders, three
electrically tempered Blue Gillette blades; complete in /!/
moulded case coloured walnut or green
Give Gillette and all’s well
There is not a man who could fail to appreciate the
most perfect shaving system in the world. And that’s
what he’ll thank you for if you give him a Gillette
shaving set. No gift offers so much everyday useful-
ness for so little money. Every set’s a masterpiece,
whether it costs 4/6 or 45/-. Most important of all, the
Blue Gillette blades and their holder were evolved by
the same designers as a unit to make Gillette the
most perfect shaving system in the world. Give him
smooth shaving from now on. Give him a Gillette
this year, and all will be well.
Other sets from 4/6 to 45/-.
of all dealers
Made in England.
Set No. 4. —Improved two-piece razor, five blades, two plated
blade sheaths, two tubes containing soap and brush O/*
—the whole in satin-lined leatherette case
tf; Wn,
mm
Australia’s Leading Financial Journal .
NOVEMBER ISSUE ON SALE NEXT SATURDAY.
ECONOMIC TRENDS IN JAPAN
FINANCIAL POSITION OF CHINA
WILL PRICES RECOVER?
STOCKS WORTH CONSIDERATION
PRICE 2/ - PER COPY, OR £11216 PER ANNUM POSTED.
üblislied by The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd., 252 George Street, Sydney, and all States.
and there complicates the issue by letting
it be thought that he’s being a bit better
treated by winner’s wife than a flunk, has
a right to be, with further complica-
tions when his own girl friend hears
about it. . , „
Not at all bad material for farce, and
the pair work it for all it’s worth. Their
humor’s of the breezy, knockabout
variety; nothing ambitious, but soundly
entertaining, in this picture perhaps
even more so than usual.
There’s good stuff in. the support;
notably that eminent solicitor Russell
Hicks, who by now must be just about
qualified for the profession itself. This
time he’s quite a decent cove ; mostly,
of course, he’s a very dirty dog indeed.
“Kathleen Mavourneen,” seen at a pre-
view, strings together a score or two
scenes which provide atmosphere for the
singing of all the more sentimental Irish
ballads by a brawny broth of 9. tenor
who begins as a singing stevedore and
ends as a radio Voice, having filled in
most of the intervening long stretches of
time making heavy love to a weepy hero-
whine without success. A curiosity in
that there’s divil a soul in it who appears
to have ever been within long-distance
gunshot of the blarney stone, it might
have been designed to convey the feeling
of the title song’s two best-known lines in
footage. It is saved from being alto-
gether hopeless by an excellent photo-
graph of a dishful of hen eggs.
“Forlorn River,” a typical Zane Grey
rehash of old fictional material, deals
with the activities of a wicked horse-
stealer (Harvey Stephens) who is foiled
by a dashing young cowboy (Buster
Crabbe). It’s a good Western, in the
sense that horses are galloping through at
least 50 of its 64 minutes’ run, and the
popping of Colts and rifles is seldom
stilled. Photography, too, earns top
marks. Going the rounds.
“Behind the Headlines,” now going the
rounds, starts off with the promise of
comedy, developing into melodrama,
wherein heroine with midget broadcasting
set makes known the cave in the Ken-
tucky Mountains to which a bunch of
gangsters have carted her off, along with
a truckload of U.S.A. Government gold.
No mere ’plane but an airship assists in
the rescue, sending instructions down to
a splendid posse of motor-bike-and-car-
mounted police. When the word gets to
these, gathered at night in the foothills,
the manager goes out and buys another
new roof for the theatre.
“Hideaway,” support at Sydney Capitol,
is notable mainly for exploiting Ameri-
can gangsterdom humorously. After
getting away with a swag of oof in New
Yark, three of the rattle-gun fraternity
head for a house in a drowsy part of the
country—a “hideaway” previously bought
by the leader in case of need. They find
it occupied by a family and go in as pay-
ing guests, the comedy springing largely
from the scares they get while there.
Poorly acted heart interest doesn’t help it,
but there’s some good character acting.
“Dangerous Adventure” is a Colum-
bia pot-boiler which trots out for the
437th time the theme of the glamorous
goil (Rosalind Keith) who becomes pos-
sessed of a steelmill managed by a
thoroughpaced scoundrel (Russell Hicks),
and is finally rescued from financial
disaster by an honest woiking guy
(Don Terry). Smelting-plant stuff is well
done, and the villains of the piece are
given a dandy beating-up ere the fade-
out. But it’s time this plot was dropped
overboard. Going the rounds.
Chamber Music Recital.
Though the A.B.C. imports its makers
of chamber music from Mittel Europa
this form of music is not quite neglected
in Australia.
There is a very good quartet at Syd-
ney Con. —Gerald Walenn, Phyllis Mac-
Donald, William Krasnik and Gladstone
Bell—which once a month presents
master works.
Last week’s programme included the
Beethoven Quartet in A Major, Op. 18,
very smoothly phrased, the Mendelssohn
Trio in D. Minor, Op. 49, pianoforte part
prettily played by Lottie Dearn, and the
Schubert Quintet in C, Op. 49 (second
’cello by Rosamond Cornford), a very
pleasing performance.
“Der Freischutz ff at Sydney
Con.
Weber’s opera, laid away in lavender
for many long years, came out of its
box with its colors startlingly fresh and
vigorous when Sydney Con.’s opera stu-
dents unfolded them on Saturday night.
Schneevoigt’s recipe for beef extract evi-
dently had not been lost upon the orches-
tra, under Florent Hoogstoel, and it was
able to indicate the firm iron hand that
lies under Carl Maria’s velvet glove.
Much of “Der Freischutz” has been
done to death—the principal airs used to
be in every pianoforte first book—but
the parts that have escaped are so sur-
prisingly good that one wonders they
didn’t stick longer in the memory. From
all of which it will be gathered that the
Con. did itself proud on the musical side.
But that was all. The staging and
dressing were so-so ; the enunciation of
chorus'and soloists left almost everything
to be desired, and the acting (such as was
attempted) was deplorable. Ernest Gibb
as Rudolph, Harold Tollemache as
Kaspar, Deborah Julius as Agatha and
Ena Preston as Annchen brought good
voices to their task, but good voices are
an Australian commonplace. These
opera students ought to join a rep. co.
and learn at least how to walk on and
walk off.
Adelaide Goes Biblical.
Adelaide Rep. has followed the versa-
tile Bridie out of its line (and his own),
with the snappy Apochyphal venture
“Tobias and the Angel.”
The dog and the fish, the demon and
archangel, are all there from the Bibli-
cal story, first astonishing and then de-
lighting crowded Tivoli houses.
Kenrteth Fraser dominated the story in
his angelic pose, finding a shrewish wife
(Florence Brown) for the timorous Frank
Waters—and having to repulse her on
his own,account. (The dialogue here
and elsewhere is pure Shaw.)
Glennon, looking like Moses and talk-
ing like Polonius, was one father-in-law;
Henry Roberts, cleverly pompous, was
the other.
Cyril Riley produced not only the
play but stage settings on a scale the
Rep. had not risen to formerly ; as also
were the costumes by Mimi Mattin.
Art in Adelaide.
Tom Garrett has been seen again at
Bayly’s gallery. His rich coloring is con-
ceived mainly in a style foreign to S.A.’s
harder and brighter light. Sometimes he
seems to be producing Lionel Lindsay
figures on a Hilder background.
The first appearance in this city of
Mary Edwards shows the importance of
good staff work. Not previously known
in Adelaide, the clever Sydney lady was
not heralded with the usual publicity.
Her heads of Colored Sister, from Fiji or
Samoa (with glances at Abyssinia and
China), are mainly realistic portrait on a
strongly impressionist background; they
should, under happier circumstances,
have appealed to the local public.
A new manifestation by young Wigley
(of an old Adelaide family) is hospitably
housed by Judge Napier. The drawings
or pastels revel in crowd scenes, pluckily
insisting on the figure-composition which
nearly all others seem to dread. They
are not comic, but rely on “types,” each
figure a trifle more or less than the
human average. Hogarthian is the word.
He should go far.
Art of the Yesterdays.
An interesting show is the “exhibi-
tion of paintings and engravings of par-
ticular merit and rarity” at Macquarie
Galleries, Sydney, which, with the excep-
tion of a couple of Whistler etchings, is
a collection of pictures by artists Aus-
tralian by birth or long residence.
One of the biggest is a Conrad Mar-
tens, “In the Australian Bush,” mostly
in murky browns. His horror of clear,
fresh color is typical of the landscapists
of his day. A Conder water-color sketch
of Botany Bay, dated 1888, gives the
scene its correct color-values.
Elioth Gruner’s early painting, “Mos-
man’s Bay,” goes further and idealises a
pretty and (to Sydneysiders) familiar
scene. Harley Griffiths depicts the Can-
berra site in the days when it didn’t know
its destiny. He has got so far from the
Martens tradition that he paints in pastel
tones —pale pinks, greens, blues and yel-
lows.
A full-blooded water-color sketch of
Watson’s Bay (which doesn’t change
much with the years) by W. H. Howes
is a relic of a very sound painter now
almost. forgotten, A good rural scene
by Hayley Lever (another name not very
familiar these days), a small Streeton
sketch in oils for his big landscape, “Aus-
tralia Felix,” and a characteristic Blamire
Young study of hills and plains are other
exhibits in this section.
G. P. Nerli, counted as an Australian,
is represented by a “Sunset at Sea” which
might have been painted anywhere.
Artists associated with The Bulletin
are to the fore. Dave Souter is shown
in an unfamiliar vein—a battle picture
in water-color, “In the Sudan,” a bit
suggestive, in its vigorous style, of Caton
Woodville. Norman Lindsay’s etching,
“Release,” is probably unique among his
works ; the only figures in it are a couple
of swans. B. E. Minns demonstrated his
versatility in his younger days with dash-
ing figure studies in pastel, and one of
these, “Fancy Dress,” is coupled with
an engraving of a couple of abo. heads.
Percy Leason’s full-page Bulletin con-
tribution, “The Stripper” (agricultural), is
also on deck.
Some Lamberts and Fullwoods, a
beautifully draughted etching by F. C.
Britten, Lionel Lindsay’s engraving of
the old pub, the Ocean Wave, which used
to irrigate the Miller’s Point locality, and
a characteristic water-color sketch by
Julian Ashton are other items of a group
that recalls an earlier Sydney.


m
m
liiljij*
iirtl.®
/Si'vy?
STAY AT
SYDNEY'S
Finest HOTEL
When you visit Sydney—stay at the
Wentworth. At the Wentworth you
will get everything you desire; a
homely atmosphere, perfect service
and convenience to business and
social centres.
WENTWORTH
HOTEL
'PHONE 8W1361 (10 lines)
r CD. MACLURCAN MNS. DIRECTOR
J. S. LEVY, Manager,
Corns Sentenced to Death .
.Corns have worried you —now worry them:
although “worry” is hardly the word, for
A’CORN SILK does not trifle with corns, but
ruthlessly kills them. How comfortable your
feet feel after A’CORN SILK has removed
all your soft or hard corns —a 6d. packet will
do this for you without pain or inconvenience.
Corns are killed while you sleep—a matter of
a few hours. Chemists sell A’CORN SILK at
6d. per packet. Packed by Felton, Grimwade
and Duerdins, Ltd., Melbourne.
oyim?g Grammar irhoal
i»r!|aoi Ilouse
The School has a Boarding Side, established in 1927, conducted
under the direction of the Trustees by a School House Board.
Early application for 193 8 is essential. Apply for Prospectus to:—
THE HEADMASTER,
COLLEGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Let Melbourne have its Cup ; Sydney
is having its Health Week. Still it does
seem irony that, just as the bell was
ringing for the first round of health
versus microbe, three of this writer s
acquaintances should be stricken, one
with mumps, one with a cold that' seemed
first cousin to pneumonia and another
with German measles. The public having
heard of the splendid work in the in-
terior done by a foaming beaker of milk,
the attendants in the milk bars have had
to serve so many customers they have
been threatened with their equivalent
of writer’s cramp. One health slogan
the small boy won’t mind is Eat More
Oranges.
The entente cordiale was put into
practice all last week when the Rigault de
Genouilly was in port. The officers of
the French sloop renewed old friendships
and made new ones at a series of par-
ties which had a cheery push-off by
France’s Consul-General Tremoulet. His
party brought all Consular Sydney,
the navy, and lots of pretty girls
to the Rose Bay Golf Club. Spain’s new
Consul-General brought his wife and
Mayoress Parkes her alderman husband.
Elizabeth Bronner, of Adelaide, and
Anne-Marie Fombertaux were two of
the many attractive guests.
After a series of parties that started
months ago and went on gathering
momentum, Major-General Rosenthal
and his lady left in the Morinda last
Saturday for Norfolk Island. Here the
General will take over the duties of Ad-
ministrator. With them the Rosenthals
took their Airedale Dandy and foxy Tony.
This Letter congratulates the Island on
getting such a kindly and capable pair
for its Government House. One of their
first visitors from Sydney will be the
fair-haired Sheila Vale, from Kirribilli.
Sumner Locke Elliott, just 20, had his
first three-act comedy, “The Cow Jumped
Over the Moon,” produced at the Inde-
pendent rooms last Saturday night. This
sparkled along happily in spite of lights
fusing and the smallness of a studio stage.
Not only did Sumner write the play, but
he produced it and provided one of the
best bits of acting. Diana Wilkinson
Smith deserves a word of praise, too.
She was an excellent temperamental
maid. The play drew a crowded audi-
ence, and, what is more, kept its laughtbr
and interest right till the final curtain.
Sumner’s mother was the late Sumner
Locke, whose books and plays caused
a stir in Australia just before and during
the Great War. She also made her mark
in London, winning one of the big pub-
lishing houses’ prizes with her novel
Samaritan Mary.
The Municipal Library is getting to-
gether a collection of music that should
prove an inspiration to the music stu-
dents of the city. Started about two years
ago by a gift from Lute Drummond of
operas by composers of every nation, the
collection has steadily grown. Carrie
Lanceley last year presented over 100
works, and last week a splendid gift of
over 300 operas (grand and light), Gil-
bert and Sullivan operettas and Beet-
hoven compositions came from the
Adams family of Rose Bay. These had
belonged to the late William John Adams,
who for many years had his home in
Turramurra. This last offering to the
Municipal Library has a complete set of
Wagner. Mr. Adams had an intimate
knowledge of that composer’s works,
gained in Germany.
To-night the Littorio Ball will turn the
ballroom of Hordern Brothers into a
place of languorous vowel sounds and
Fascist emblems. The night of gaiety
each year commemorates the Fascist
march on Rome, the Italian armistice
and the birthday of the King of Italy.
Mrs. Marocco, wife of the acting-Consul-
General, is president of a committee which
has Mrs. Ferrari Passmore for organiser
and Mrs. Merline for treasurer. The
Italian Benevolent Fund will benefit.
The China that loved beauty while yet
its Great Wall was in the making is
shown in the porcelains now exhibited
in the rooms of the Industrial Arts
Society. Clear-cut in line, delicate and
glowing in color, bowl and vase and
celadon dish whisper within their glass
cases of artisans who were artists and
whose work lives for ever, though they
themselves are dust. Here was a jar with
a little beetle in peach bloom near its
lip. The peach or peach bloom is a sym-
bol of happiness, and in addition to its
beauty the Chinese prize this glaze for
its symbolism. Some of these pieces
have the quality of sculpture, and there
is over everything the true artistic re-
straint in decoration. The show has
been the centre around which lunches
of Chinese dishes have been served and
many lectures given on the art of China.
Rosemary Benjamin arrived in Sydney
about a year or so ago. In London she
had been keenly interested in a theatre
for children, and had done some work on
these lines in connection with Joan Lux-
ton’s group. One of her ventures was a
one-week season at Derry and Toms in
conjunction with Don Finley. Rosemary
is now working up a scene from Alice in
Wonderland. This will be presented at
the open-air theatre in Phillip Park beside
the Children’s Library, and will be part
of the fete which Mrs. Matheson (Mary
Rivett), founder of both library and
theatre, is now organising. Rosemary of
this Falk picture is also keenly interested
in the British Drama League in Sydney.
When Mrs. J. C. Williamson died last
week another link with the early days
of the Firm was snapped. As Mary
Weir, Mrs. Williamson attained fame as
a solo dancer in the Firm’s productions.
In those days (her contemporaries tell)
she was sylphlike, her expression child-
like and ingenuous. A very appealing
child portrait in the National Gallery
which helped to establish the fame of
John Longstaff as a painter of portraits
is that called “Marjorie.” The original
was Mrs. Williamson’s daughter, who
later became Mrs. Lindsay Browne, and
who died all too young. This portrait is
said to be extremely like Mrs. William-
son when a young woman. A younger
daughter survives her mother. She is
Mrs. Wallace Horsley. For many years
Mrs. Williamson has lived quietly at
Kingsclere, Macleay-street, content to be
kindly and generous.
Holystoned and polished till she
glittered, the Penguin put on a good
afternoon party for the officers of the
French sloop Rigault de Genouilly. The
warship was off Garden Island, the sea
breeze tempered by bunting, the party
spirit emphasised by flags. A stirring
moment was provided when the bos’n’s
party of the Penguin blew prolonged
blasts on whistles, piping the officers of
the visiting warship aboard. The Cap-
tain-Superintendent, Captain G. A. Scott,
Captain Waller, of H.M.A.S. Sydney,
Commander Owen, S.
and the war room o
os s ‘ . ,
Mrs. Scott was smart in navy and
white from her tat down ; Mra.
brown outfit had aso r ° w^ .
coL°mT OwetA dress showed brightly
patterned in green and white. The
French Consul-General was at the party ;
and two populars of the day were the
smiling Captain Moron and the tall Cap-
tin Plante There were a great number
of the French community, and of these
Anne-Marie Fombertaux was a pretty
girl in blue flecked with silver. Shirley
Poynter wore a large white hat with
her blue-and-white frock. Black was
Mrs. J. Playoust’s choice.
’ ’ , , . -¥■ i.
What happens when baby Johnny, ag
one, in Surry Hills swallows a pin or a
halfpenny or when Janie of the Loo at
one and a half develops gastro-enteiitis.
They are hurried to the Renwick Hos-
pital for Infants. After a preliminary at
the city headquarters they are popped
out to the hospital itself at Summer Hill.
This is a pleasant place set among trees
and lawns; and it was at one time the
home of the late Dr. Hinder.
, ■, .
Last year on the old home a new wing
was built-up to the last minute in every
detail of hospital architecture. Now the
original building will be mostly used for
administrative purposes. Renwick can
now take 84 patients at a time. Their age
limit, by the way, is two years. During
the year there are often 1000 in-patients.
Dr. Gertrude Grogan, the girl in this
Peter Pan photograph, is the medical
superintendent of this useful and neces-
sary Benevolent Society’s institution. In-
cidentally she is the first woman medical
superintendent the Renwick has had for
many years. The hospital is for the babes
of parents whom circumstances haven’t
smiled on. It provides, too, a specialised
training ground in the nursing of infants.
The poet who wrote “the mill will
never grind with the water that has
passed” would have been surprised at all
the chaff and laughter that were ground
out by the stream of memory at the
annual meeting of the N.S.W. Women’s
Hockey Assoc. The organisation is now
facing its 30th birthday, and it has gone
a long, long way from the days when
one of its earnest resolutions was that
no player must wear a skirt shorter than
six inches from the ground. Though
women’s hockey was first played in Aus-
tralia in 1904 there was no association
till 1908. A daughter of Sir Harry
Rawson (then Governor) was asked to
act as president. Miss Rawson finally
consented to act as patroness. Later the
1908 association decided to hold a sports
meeting at Rushcutter Oval, and Miss
Rawson was asked to honor the associa-
tion with her presence. But the lady
wasn’t able to attend and the association
gave up the notion.
Pretty Mrs. F. J. Davy, elected secre-
tary for the sixteenth time, read some of
the old records and minutes with spark-
ling eyes. When she came to the un-
varying ending “the meeting was a
pleasant and enthusiastic one,” the room-
ful of fresh-cheeked, upstanding girls,
many of them international and inter-
state players, chuckled mightily. Meet-
ings in this year of grace are much more
vigorous. When Alice Rawson left' Aus-
tralia, Lady Poore (wife of the Admiral)
was evidently requested to give a slice
of patronage. But she declined being
president or giving even a crumb of pat-
ronage, as she considered hockey far too
strenuous a game for women. Among
early supporters of the game were Miss
Shadforth Hooper and Miss Winifred
West, who acted as chairwomen. Miss
P. Clubbe (now at Frensham) was secre-
tary, and in 1909 captained the. first
N.S.W. team. This went to Melbourne
in 1909 and won three matches. For
1937 Dr. Marie Hamilton is again presi-
dent, Dorothy Friend treasurer and Mrs.
Davy secretary.
Mary Whidbourne reached Melbourne
last week on her trek from Brighton,
England, to Sydney. She at least does
not despise our sesquicentenary, but is
thrilled to be back for the city’s 150th
celebrations. Another festive time that
awaits her is the 28th birthday of Fren-
sham, the widely-known girls’ school at
Mittagong, where Mary taught eurhyth-
mies before her return to England. In
Melbourne she is the guest of the Eric
Adeneys.
Alan Blair, one of the Castlecrag
group of players, and who was on the
staff of the Matson line, reached
London two or three months ago,
and has already entered for two film
and drama scholarships. One was the
George Grossmiith scholarship at the
R.A.M., and Alan was among the four
finalists, and when he wrote his letter
home he had just had his screen test at
Denham, but had not then learned
whether he had plucked the prize. What
he had in his pocket was a scholarship
in the same class of work from Chek-
hov, nephew of Anton Chekhov. The
tests were taken at Dartington Hall in
Devon. Tuition, board and lodging for
a year go with this.
Dartington Hall is a beautiful place
owned by a rich American. On the
estate are a sawmill, a cider mill and a
textile factory. There is also an open-
air theatre surrounded by terraced
lawns bordered by yew-trees. ' Alan is
staying with the Hallings. Suzanne, the
pianist of this clever juvenile trio, has
just returned from Italy, where she has
been studying with Friedmann; Peter
has won an R.A.M. scholarship for ’cello,
and Pat is still working hard with his
violin. Alan, just 21 and a Scot, has a
gift for languages. He learned to speak
German, Swedish and French fluently in
a few months.
A letter from Annette Kellerman, in
New York, is one wail for the days of
tennis when Suzanne Lenglen, Helen
Wills and Norman Brookes were provid-
ing the thrills. Annette had had about a
week of the U.S.A. tennis championships,
and found everybody mediocre except
Von Cramm and Donald Budge. The
new lady champion, Anita Lizana, is de-
scribed as a “pretty miss,” a little like
Suzanne in her grace. Her features are
cameo-like, and her manner is sweet and
gentle. Annette, on the verge of com-
ing to Australia for another holiday, has
had an offer larded with gold to go again
to Miami to arrange another water
pageant. Already she has had a record-
breaking year with these aquatic galas.


WAKE UP! and take BARTZ
the improved mineral spring tonic salts
Bartz, Nature’s own remedy for Rheumatic
Pains, Giddiness, High Blood Pressure, Con-
stipation, Indigestion, Uric Acid, All Stomach
Disorders and Skin Complaints, etc.
Mrs. M. C. writes:—
“For many years I have b,aen a martyr to the
acute and distressing pains of arthritis. During the
period of suffering, most of the well known supposed
cures were recommended to me by well meaning
friends, but I was unable to get any relief from the
dreadful pains from which I suffered. Not long ago,
I was induced to try Bartz through the insistent
demands of a friend, and since then I have been a
new woman. The result was so astonishing that I
would not be without a bottle of Bartz in my home.
It is a marvellous remedy, and I feel it my duty to
recommend it to others who suffer from that agonis-
ing complaint—arthritis.”
Obtainable at all Chemists and Stores.
CHEAPER AND BETTER 1/-& 2/-JARS
Make the Best Cough
Remedy and Save Money.
Wise folk save money by making their
own family cough and influenze remedy
with HEENZO. A bottle of HEENZO
costs two shillings, and, when added to
sweetened water, makes a supply equal
in quantity and superior in quality to
eight ordinary-sized bottles of the best
ready-mixed remedies for coughs,
colds, croup, bronchitis, influenza, and
whooping cough. Over ONE MILLION
Australian citizens annually use HEENZO.
Order from your chemist or store now,
Notice to Next-of-kin.
Re THOMAS MILLER late of Lorraine
Station via Cloncurry in the State of
Queensland Stockman deceased intestate.
NOTICE is hereby given that GEORGE
(JOHN) MILLER and/or his issue and CLARA
JOHNSON and/or her issue and all other per-
sons claiming to be next-of-kin of the above-
named who died at Lorraine Station aforesaid
on the Twenty-fifth day of February One thou-
sand nine hundred and Twenty-seven are re-
quired to forward proofs of their claims to the
Local Deputy Public Curator Townsville on
or before the Fourteenth day of January One
thousand nine hundred and thirty-eight and
that after the last-mentioned date the said
the Local Deputy Public Curator Townsville
shall distribute the estate disregarding the
claims of all such persons and all persons claim-
ing by through or under them by derivative
title or otherwise howsoever.
DATED this Twenty-ninth day of October,
1937.
JOHN B. O’DUFFY,
Local Deputy Public Curator,
Townsville.
BRANDAUERS
m
m
o"
PENS
nt
guara
do not experiment with imitations.
C. BRANDAOKR k CO., Ltd, BIRMINGHAM. ENO
8 k?
fi? 1
To be physically fit in the true sense means
something more than a negative condition of
health or freedom from sickness. It means
building up and maintaining a store of vitality
and endurance, a reserve of strength to draw on
as required. Something that will help everyone
to make a supreme effort to win through, no
matter how handicapped at the start in life’s
race. The foundation of fitness is a well
nourished body and there is no better way of
attaining this than by taking Roboleine, the best
protective and energy creating food. A teaspoon-
ful three times a day supplies the body with
that extra nourishment which builds up strong
bone and healthy tissue, and increases resistance
to infection.
In 60z., 12oz. and 360 z. glass jars.
ROBOLEINE
(Made in England)
The best protective and
health restoring food
OOPO*
Sttcc 1
Ke^
479
iw
for
tamp*
Neiv
close
Mow
gydnef
\ei» B
frobo
fjotw
Address
Melbourne
Chatter
Dressing at the Derby was restrained
rather than exhilarating, the chilly breeze
being the cause of dark colors, furs and
lightweight woollen coats. Very popular
was the little Paisley or printed silk
jacket, cut as a bolero or of hip-length
with an action back, as an accompani-
ment to a tailored frock. It was a record
crowd, and seemed a light-hearted one,
though tips went wrong and most pockets
grew lighter and lighter.
More grey toppers were in evidence
on the stands than usual, and red car-
nations were easily favorites for male
buttonholes.
Hats for the womenfolk had their
moments. Cartwheels worn in defiance
of the wind took up all their owners’
time and at least one hand, except for
a brief period of let-up behind the glass
in the luncheon-room. Some hats had
chinstraps, and a few, like Mrs. Trevor
Clarke’s, were anchored with veils
secured tightly under the chin. A select
number curled upward and forward, like
Mrs. Norman Cozens’s “cream-horn,” and
one or two, like Mrs. Roger Henderson’s,
placed all their emphasis upon bonnet
brims. Hers was of black straw, with an
orange ribbon resting lightly alongside the
aperture in the crown. Mrs. Vernon
Duckett’s tailored Norfolk dress in duck-
egg blue woollen crepes had as acces-
sory a tobacco-brown cravat. Mrs. Her-
bert Benton and Mrs. Bill Brash were
with Mrs. Frank White, who when
Avenger failed to win the Derby saw
the melting away of all the wealth she
had collected on him in Sydney recently.
Over a blue frock Margaret Lewis
wore one of the new linen lace coats
which are sure to be seen often when
summer really decides to visit us. Mrs.
Bon Guest chose a white hat and tailored
frock. Mrs. Russell Gabb found her
silver foxes a distinct comfort in a chilly
breeze. With her tailored black coat
Mrs. Cyril Gove was also prepared for
cool weather. Valerie Palmer’s little
navy hat flew a veil, and her patterned
dress was protected by a lightweight
woollen coat.
A bunch of private parties and one big
wedding were the pacemakers of the
week before the Cup. Derby Night was
marked on most calendars for smallish
dinner parties in town, followed up by
shows, but not first nights ; they all hap-
pened this year on Moonee Valley Night.
The Russell Grimwade couple’s cocktail
party was the largest function held in a
private home. A few days previously
the Lady Mayoress arranged a party
in the council chamber in honor of her
successor, Mrs. Edward Campbell. One
late afternoon the Eric Mcllwraiths gave
a number of their friends not only the
opportunity to taste their cocktails but to
see their home in Glenferrie-road. Mrs.
Leif Due’s big party at No. 9 was an
introduction to Melbourne for her new
daughter-in-law, Mrs. Einar Due. The
H. E. Thonemanns had a warm and
balmy dusk in which to entertain their
friends, and the same rise in tempera-
ture brought summer frocks to Mrs. H.
C. G. Mackindoe’s tea in honor of debu-
tante daughter Anne.
The Air Force, or part of it, flew from
Point Cook and Laverton to give aerial
salutes to Air Vice-Marshal Nicholl, sail-
ing off for Cape Town in the Ceramic.
The departing officer, who has been on
exchange from the R.A.F. with Air-
Commodore Goble, lived for many years
in South Africa, where he has numerous
friends. He means to visit Kenya before
flying to Cairo and going on to England.
His next command will be a very high
and mighty one with headquarters in
Egypt.
Many professions and all ranks of
officers in the services were represented
at Air Vice-Marshal Nicholl’s farewell
cocktail party at the Oriental. The guest
of honor was seen in the distance while
Mrs. Williams, wearing a couple of hand-
some orchids, did the honors, with the
host, of receiving the other guests. Mrs.
R. G. Casey held a little court behind a
bowl of roses. Among younger folk who
never seemed to stay long in one place
were Peggy Campbell, Greta Harrison
and Joan Toomer, who came with her
parents, Wing-Commander and Mrs.
Toomer. Among Point Cook’s popula-
tion were Group-Captain “Kanga” and
Mrs. de la Rue and the adjutant,
“Micky” Knox Knight, and his wife Dr.
Monica.
The fact that they did not bring the
Tasman Cup home with them has not
taken the edge off the warm welcome ex-
tended to the team of Australian women
golfers (incidentally all Victorians) who
are back from a strenuous tour of M.L.,
where they played 36 holes practically
every day. Betty Kernot, whose photo-
graph is by Broothorn, had a win in the
foursomes with Nell Hutton against
Mrs. G. Hollis (Oliver Kay before her
marriage) and Mrs. R. S. Fullerton
Smith. Betty, who won the open gplf
championship of Victoria this year, is the
daughter of the Walter Kernot couple
of Geelong. She commenced her career
in competitive sports while at school at
The Hermitage, when at the tender age
of 12 she won a trophy for an open
diving competition for all girls’ schools.
The Travellers’ Aid Society, which car-
rjes out useful social services minus a
blare of trumpets, is hoping that the
clay will come when it will have some
sort of a car at its disposal. The
society’s helpers do miles of walking
taking people to destinations off train
anc l tram routes, and occasionally they
are called up to meet or farewell an early-
morning milk train, as, for instance, last
wee k when a girl left on a 3 a.m. train
to see her dying father. One helper had
a nightmare journey recently in a tram
when her charge, a mentally deficient
child, took a dislike to a passenger,
Every day there are women anc { children
to be escorted to homes, hospitals and
institutions, and runaway youths and girls
to be persuaded with tact and strategy
to give their own homes another chance,
At the annual summing-up of the society
j as t week Miss N. Malcolm’s report was
read by Miss Byron Moorei Miss L<
Armytage gave an enlightening address,
0 n the society’s files for the last year
there are records of over 8000 individuals
who were given practical help.
, , , , ,
Fay Compton has embarked upon a
ro e ’ “J?* a “ °P®? e . r art
b |tlons - When she officiated at Will
ov^ e J s i , sl i ON Y st tlme ln
hf© that she had spoken m a gallery
paintings. Will got stage fright in
the middle of his speech, but Miss Comp-
ton ins ti nc tivly prompted him before the
P ause became too long or nerve-rack-
? n ®' c , „ terwards the pair, chaperoned
Strella Wilson, discovered over a pot
of tea how much artistic temperaments
have in common. Miss Compton had to
justice to a second tea almost lmme-
for the Animal Welfare people
swe P t her off to their bridge party,
Among those who visited Will Rowell’s
pictures during the first afternoon of
their showing were Mrs. Russell Grim-
wade, Mrs. O’Dell Crowther, with white
wings upon her black hat, and her
daughter Valeria, whose accessories were
a fob watch upon a grey lapel and
chromium initials aloft a little middy
cap. Wendy Tudehope’s news item was
an ornament for her hat which looked
just like a shaving brush. Blonde Mrs.
Russell Gourlay (who used to be Noel
Boyd) was introduced to Miss Comp-
ton by Will Rowell as “the lady who has
left the boards.” Mrs. Bruce Laing was
accompanied by daughter Judy, who
wore a white blouse and gardenia with
her brown check suit. The “Pete”
Corneys made their inspection in a three-
some with Mary Ellen Chapman.
Sport and the movies haven’t yet stolen
all the glamor from a world that gets
more matter-of-fact every day. Gallery
girls, though a fast-vanishing race, are
still extant, as one sees when they come
out of their cocoons for a Gladys Mon-
crieff season, and there’s a baker who
is getting more kick out of carrying his
basket to Fay Compton’s flat every
morning than he’s finding from his Cup
week bets. Miss Compton loves to get
loose in her kitchen at Rutland Court.
Because cooking is such relaxation to
her she was delighted with gifts of a
cauliflower and a box of eggs which fol-
lowed up a bunch of roses at the Animal
Welfare League bridge party.
There were 80 tables booked for the
party, which took place at No. 9
Darling-street. Coins rattled not only on
the bridge tables but in the foyer, where
novelties for Christmas and for meals of
the next few days were arranged to
tempt the eye and loosen the purse-
strings. The poultry stall supervised by
Mrs. Lort Smith reported satisfactory
sales in all sizes of its choice assortment,
from turkeys down to squabs. Mrs.
M. H. Baillieu’s produce stall stocked
innumerable larders with legs of lamb
and vegetables. Mrs. Norman Cozens
and her helpers provided confectionary
in many colors and shapes. Mrs. David
Hamilton’s committee worked in the
fragrance of flowers picked early that
morning.
Susan Gullett, whose portrait is by
Broothorn, is the only daughter of knight
Harry Gullett and his lady. Susan’s
rounding-off to her school days was a
trip to Europe. She was one of the
debutantes at Government House Bail
on Cup night.
Switzerland and the U.S.A. played
principal roles in the International Club’s
recent afternoon. Consuls J. A. Pietzcker
and F. A. Henry gave short addresses on
their respective homelands, and tea in-
cluded doughnuts, Swiss confectionary of
pastry and cream cheese, and sugary
morsels known as “divine divinities.”
Mrs. Alan Brockhoff honored the occa-
sion with a snappy little hat, child of the
marines’ “gob” caps. Isla and Jean
Coates were a pair of young things as
sweet as the fudge (made by their mother,
Mrs. A. M. Coates) which they handed
around. Isla is doing commerce at the
University and Jean is still at school,
working for leaving certificate. But
American mails interfere with the girls’
studies, for they have lived so long in
their mother’s country that they’ve made
hosts of friends there —and they’re both
good correspondents.
Luxury notes at the wedding of Pat
Carnegie and Tony Fairbairn were the
bride’s beautiful pearl-embroidered train,
a white satin cloth on the bridal table
and the champagne which flowed con-
tinuously through the afternoon and
evening to the dance for the chosen few
who out of the several hundred were
asked to remain at Kinnaird. Tony’s
speech was a good effort for a bride-
groom ; they’re always expected to be
nervous. He referred to the day when
he first met Pat up in the air above Mt.
Martha in the little amphibian Cutty
Sark. A. E. Kimpton, who is an old
friend of the bride’s parents, was voted
one hundred per cent, applause for his
impromptu speech. He went back to
1841 when there were only abos. and
one Carnegie on the river at Kew. The
abos. retreated as more and more Car-
negies arrived, and now there are only
Carnegies at Kew.
The Vance Palmer couple have made
the most of air mails lately, which
brought them closer to daughter Aileen
during her recent month’s leave in Eng-
land from her job in Spain. Fourteen
months ago Aileen, who was then in
London, joined as interpreter a medical
unit bound for Spain. Since then her
work has been arduous, for records have
to be kept, sometimes in several lan-
guages, of every case that passes through
the unit'. The young Australian volun-
teer, who is now 22, has found that good
health, a placid disposition and the ability
to sleep on floor or rooftop are essentials
to sticking it out. Since January the
unit has been a mobile one, camping for
a few weeks in eight different places.
It often feeds the village it is in, and is
very popular for its distributions of soap
—all fats being requisitioned at present
for other purposes. Aileen graduated in
Arts with honors in French at Melbourne
University. She afterwards spent six
months in Austria, and before the Spanish
civil war was in Barcelona learning
Spanish and helping to organise affairs
known as the People’s Olympic Games.


a
peH“rfP*" orama
Up, up you go to the summit of Mt.
Wellington, Hobart, and as you hike
or motor each scene is more entranc-
ing than the last. A memorable trip end
only one of the many holiday enjoyments
Tasmania offers in an ideal climate.
Illustrated literature, details of liner sailings and fares on application
TASMANIAN GOVERNMENT TOURIST BUREAU
MELBOURNE -
SYDNEy
NEWCASTLE^.
- - The Block, Collins Street
4 Martin Place, opp. G.P.O.
- - - - - 24 Hunter Street
ADELAIDE
PERTH - -
BRISBANE
l2 Pine Street
- A M.P. Bldg., William Street
196 Adelaide Street
Put Your Saving
To Work —To-day!
ynft SECURjry
DO you know that FIRST AUSTRALIAN UNIT
TRUST CERTIFICATES enable you to invest sums
of about £25 and upwards in first-class industrials?
Every £ is spread over the shares of 20 famous Australian
Companies, and is safeguarded by Custodian Trustees
(Union Insurance Society of Canton, Ltd.)- Yield
approx. 5 % per annum.
Write for Booklet No. 1 to the Managers:
AUSTRALIAN FIXED TRUSTS PTY., LTD.,
8-14 Bond Street, Sydney.
Telephone: 85294.
Box 4028 V.V., G.P.O.
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
“Kaloa”: Rabaul, hitherto isolated,
has acquired radio telephone connection
with the mainland, though only those
who own goldmines will be able to
afford to use it. The rate is 15s. per
minute, and there is a limit of three
minutes. Seeing the difficulties of life in
Rabaul and the relatively low cost of
radio-telephone equipment, the G.P.O.
might at least strain a point and cut the
rate in halves. The daylight rate from
Sydney (N.S.W.) to Perth (W.A.), which
is 2\ times as far away as Rabaul, is 17s.
for three minutes, and after 9 p.m. and
before 7 a.m. the charge is 2s. lOd. a
minute.
* * * *
“Baino”: A little by-play in the N.T.
election campaign which shows how little
the North is isolated since air services
were introduced:
Monday, Oct. 25, 11 a.m. —Telegram
received in Sydney from A. M. Blain,
M. in Darwin, advising that he can’t
get how-to-vote cards and placards
printed for election on Oct. 30. Can they
be printed in Sydney? As air-parcel mail
closed at 4.30 p.m. on day of receipt, this
was impossible. The text was, therefore,
wired to the Longreach “News,” 1200
miles further up the line.
Tuesday, 10 a.m. —Telegram received
in Sydney from Longreach “News” giv-
ing quotation and asking for instructions.
Instructions wired.
Thursday, 6 p.m. —Telegram received
in Sydney from A. M. Blain, Darwin:
“Posters and cards received safely 3 p.m.
to-day.”
* * * *
“X.T.”: I nominate Hatch’s Creek
(N.T.), where there are 200 men work-
ing, and Wauchope (N.T.), where there
are another 200, as the highest-waged
settlements in Australia. The average
is said to be about £lO a week. But, of
course, there is a catch in it. Beer is
so dear that it has to be taken in an
eyedropper except by millionaires, and
the wolfram mined on the fields has to
be kept under gauze to prevent the flies
from eating it in mistake for beef.
* * * *
“Dungeness”: The biggest property
deal Queensland has yet seen took place
recently when H. Talbot Sanderson sold
out his Queensland cattle interests to his
co-directors and shareholders in Van-
rook, Ltd., and Queensland Stations,
Ltd. The properties include Vanrook,
Stirling, Macaroni, Wallabadah and
Strathmore in the Gulf country and its
vicinity, Dotswood and Wando Vale in
N. and Glen Prairie and Stoodleigh
near Rockhampton.' Total area involved
is about 8300 square miles, with 117,000
head of cattle. With others, they were
bought in 1929 for £250,000, when the
Moore Government was trying to clean
up the State-owned-stations mess. H.T.S.
ownership increased first-quality beef
yield from 30 p.c. to 80 p.c., and rents
and taxes gave the Government a steady
income in place of a steady loss.
* * * *
“Gain”: Anybody who contemplates
legal action in the Mandated Territory
will have plenty of time to prepare his
pleadings. Even with two Judges the
position was often trying, but now the
Chief Judge has gone on furlough for
18 months prior to retirement the whole
works falls on the shoulders of Judge
Phillips, whose position is not made
easier by the fact that the Crown Law
officer, Mr. Hogan, is out of the Terri-
tory on leave. New Guinea cases can
be longwinded where native witnesses are
concerned and translation has to go
through the stages of native language,
pidgin and English. The present job
seems too much for one pair of shoulders
to carry.
*
“Laetitia”: “Puyakka’s” (B. 20/10/’37)
memories about mass vaccination in the
Torres Islands and Treacle’s part in the
work remind me of the time the Queens-
land Government gathered the local nig
in all his tribes on Badu to undergo the
operation. Every Binghi from Daru to
Doodlakine seemed to be there, smiling
and happy in the assurance given him
that vaccination produced no effects that
were painful, while adding much to
human happiness, when a dejected-look-
ing lugger arrived loaded down with local
gentry from an island where the job had
already been done. Their good right
arms were swollen like mizzen masts, and
their countenances would have made
Job’s look like that of one of the Marx
brothers. I never saw a crowd leave
more hurriedly than the Government’s
raw material. Some of them must be
paddling yet.
* * * *
“Malaguna”: A report in the Rabaul
“Times” says that
It is a very common thing these days
to see three or four cars, expensive modern
limousines, driving out of Rabaul about
11 o’clock at night. Each car is full of
natives going to a rendezvous They
return in the early hours after a night .
spent in drinking and gambling.
Perhaps the Administration will wake
up when some slightly mellow Manus
boy goes fanti and kills a civil
servant or two or presses his attentions
too far on some white girl and gets
lynched. If the coons were able to dope
themselves always with nice clean liquor
it wouldn’t be so bad, but the hoosh
which finds its way to niggers is often
of the sort that consists of bad whis,ky,
metho., fermented coconut milk and a
flavoring of stick tabak. That kind of
drink no nigger can take without be-
coming a menace to everybody in sight,
including himself.
"Australia Jane's" Budget
When Sir Leslie and Lady Wilson find
themselves once more on their own door-
mat at Government House, they will re-
ceive a pleasurable shock. A lot of
money has been spent on the renovations
and extensions. New rooms, new bath-
rooms (these were badly needed), new
terraces, a bigger garden and two new
porches have been completed, and there
are to be new quarters for the staff. In
Sir William MacGregor’s time there were
so few bedrooms that when an extra
visitor arrived unexpectedly the aide had
to be put into a tent on the back lawn.
Marjorie Wilson isn’t coming back with
her parents. She is taking an arts course
at Oxford.
When the Reg Friths got back to
Toowoomba, after their honeymoon tour
of the world, Mrs. J. O. Frith gave a
huge welcome-home party for them at
“Y' ought t’ git plenty o’ foxes 'n' rabbits round ’ere."
Rodway, one of the loveliest of the
homes on the Range. Mrs. Reg wore
some of her overseas clothes —a frock
of printed navy silk, a coat of navy
lace and a shiny straw hat.
Mrs. Ormond Smith got back to Bris-
bane just in time to attend the annual
recording of the Bush Book Club She
had been away for 15 months, and visited
Austria, Germany and Italy, as well as
having nine months in England.
Queensland sculptress Daphne Mayo
is sailing for England in December, and
will be away for about a year. Daphne
won the Wattle Day League Art Scholar-
ship and was overseas from 1919 to 1925,
won gold, silver and bronze medals at
the London Royal Academy, and a
travelling scholarship to Italy. The tym-
panum over the chief entrance to the
Town Hall, the memorial fountain in
Anzac-square, the decorative frieze in
Tattersall’s Club and stations of the cross
in various city churches are her best-
known works in Brisbane.
Mrs. Harold Giles, who is staying with
relatives at Corinda, has her home at
Elsey station, in the N.T., where Mrs.
Ameas Gunn went as a bride 35 years
ago. Mr. Giles is the station manager.
The old home has been moved 18 miles.
The railway line is within three miles
of the original homestead. The three
Giles children, Peter, Bruce and Mar-
garet, do a lot of boating. Their vessel
is a dugout made by the aborigines from
a huge old white cedar-tree.
Four blue-clad attendants followed
Clare Nicholson Smith to the altar at St.
Stephen’s Cathedral when she became
Mrs. Harold Leslie Quinn. The bridal
bouquet, lilies-of-the-valley, came by
’plane from Sydney. The late William
Smith, of Rockhampton, was the bride’s
father, and her mother lives in Brisbane.
A lovely bride she was in her soft white
chiffon draperies and tulle veil, which was
finished with a spray of lilies-of-the-valley
to match her bouquet. One of the bride’s
sisters was chief bridesmaid, Mrs. John
McCoy, ’groom’s sister, was matron of
honor, and another Smith daughter and
Alma Davies were bridesmaids. They all
pinned diamond brooches, the gifts of the
’groom, into their blue chiffon frocks, and
carried bouquets of pink carnations and
delphiniums. Lawrie Quinn was best
man. The reception was at Rowe’s, and
the ’moon rises over the Jenolan Caves,
Sydney and Canberra.
Lieutenant-Governor Blair’s lady went
along to open the fete arranged by the
Ladies’ Guild of the Ex-Imperial Associa-
tion, proceeds of which are to go towards
providing Christmas cheer. There was
a basket of flowers for her, and she was
introduced by the Guild president, Mrs.
B. Marshall.
Another job done by the Blair lady
was in connection with the Croquet
Assoc., of which she is patroness.
Stephens Croquet Club had a bridge and
croquet party, and she acted as official
hostess. Mrs. W. H. Austin, the presi-
dent, helped to entertain the guests.
Members of the University Senate, the
staff and their wives cheerfully dropped
routine matters to entertain Prof, and
Mrs. W. L. F. Murdoch at an informal
tea-party in the University grounds. Our
Lieutenant-Governor and his lady were
there. There was a splendid muster of
profs, and lecturers, and although there
was no official reception all the guests
had an opportunity to meet and chat with
the Murdochs.


4 $
ll
$
th
r H
He*
4
l *V>i
Ks
*1
**s*
£ g c
Sec »er
THREE - THREE
STATE EXPRESS
333
VIRGINIA
CIGARETTES
CORK TIPPED OR PLAIN
9 6d. : 18 —1- : 27 1/6. Also Flat Fifties, Flat Hundreds, and Round Air-tight Fifties.
5670-9.7


ICKERS
V
srVi
t« f
.VC r;/,f
-V" -•
x#>*
When buying gin, make
sure of strength. Order
Vickers. Its strength is
genuinely satisfying and
unchanged.
Vickers upholds the oldest
and highest gin tradition.
No novice for popularity
of price, its quality-
heritage dates back in an
unbroken tradition for 187
years-an unapproachable
record.
Distilled from the origi-
nal recipe under licence from
J. & J. Vickers & Co. Ltd., London
gh
BRITAIN
MAKE YOUR TOUR
COMPLETE.
The Highways of
Romance and the His-
torical Cathedral Cities
are all awaiting you.
The route is by the
L.N.E.R.
Up to Scotland by the
“Coronation,” the first
streamlined train —Lon-
don to Edinburgh, 392
York Minster. m u e s, in six hours.
TOUR BY THE LONDON AND NORTH
A ° EASTERN RAILWAY.
Apply for full particulars to—
BURNS, PHIUP AND CO., LTD.,
1 Bridge Street, Sydney, and Branches.
Agents throughout Australia.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1671 of 1937.
BETWEEN EMILY MILLICENT GRIFFITH
Petitioner
And JOHN JAMES GRIFFITH Respon-
dent.
TO JOHN JAMES GRIFFITH late of Wagga
Wagga.
TAKE NOTICE that the said EMILY
MILLICENT GRIFFITH has commenced a
suit against you in this Honorable Court and
is applying for a dissolution of marriage on the
grounds of desertion for three years and up-
wards without just cause or 'excuse AND
TAKE NOTICE that you are required to enter
an appearance to the said suit at the proper
office of this Honorable Court on or before
the Twenty-first day of January One thousand
nine hundred and thirty-eight and in the event
of your not so doing the Petitioner will pro-
ceed and the suit be heard and determined
your absence notwithstanding. A copy of the
petition filed herein may be had on applica-
tion to the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this Twenty-sixth day of October,
1937.
For the Registrar,
(1.5.) E. L. LENNON,
Clerk in Divorce.
JOHN K. CUTLER, Solicitor for the Peti-
tioner, 7 Wynyard Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
ZEALAND—WELLINGTON DISTRICT
(Wellington Registry).
In Divorce. No. 5002.
TO JOSEPH PERCIVAL LAVIN formerly of
the City of Wellington in the Dominion ot
New Zealand but now of address unknown.
TAKE NOTICE that a citation has been
issued out of the Supreme Court of New
Zealand at Wellington citing you to appear and
answer the petition of DORA GENEyiEVE
LAVIN of the City of Wellington in the
Dominion of New Zealand married woman
wherein she prays for the dissolution of her
marriage with you ON THE GROUND that
you wilfully deserted her in the month ot
October 1933 without just cause and that such
desertion has continued for a space of three
years and upwards namely from that date down
to the date of the filing of the petition herein
and such citation intimates that in default ot
your so doing the Court will proceed to hear
the said petition and will pronounce sentence
therein notwithstanding your absence NOW
THEREFORE take notice that for the purpose
aforesaid you are within 30 days of the publi-
cation of this advertisement to attend in person
or by your solicitor at the Supreme Court
Office at Wellington and there enter an appear-
ance without which you will not be allowed to
address the Court at any stage of the proceed-
ings.
A copy of the said citation and petition
will be supplied to you on your applying for the
same at the Supreme Court Office at Wellington.
DATED this 18th day of October, 1937.
C. MASON,
Deputy Registrar.
Friends of the Respondent are particularly
requested to forward to him the foregoing
advertisement.
ALFRED JOHN MAZENGARB is the
Solicitor for the Petitioner, whose address for
service is at the office of MESSIEURS
MAZENGARB, HAY AND MACALISTER,
21 Brandon Street, Wellington, in the Dominion
of New Zealand.
THE LITTLE SISTERS.
WESTRALIA.
. TT ... u a u-, 0
Anzhb House ballroom housed the
Pleiades Clubs end-of-season cabaret
dance. Turns were given by the club
ballet Stephanie Evans and Peter Web
ster did some rhythmic tapping and there
were amusing fooleries by Dick Cullen
and Gordon Peggy Whitworth
directed affairs m black and gold satin
draperies, president Margaret Giles stiff-
ened her shell-pink lace in cun n
fashion and topknotted her dark locks
with rosebuds and Dorothy and Beatrice
Baker sprayed deep-red gladioli on the
shoulders of their twin black velvets.
Sponsored by the Society of Artists
and opened by Uni. Chancellor Battye,
the retrospective exhibition of Westrahan
Art drew crowds to the Sculpture Court
of the Art Gallery. In this collection,
which included oils, water-colors, etch-
ings, metal-modelling and other craft
work, there was one painting by a true
primitive—a member of the Worrora tribe
of West Kimberley. John Brackenreg,
organiser of the display, received shoals
of congratulations on his effort to trace
the history of art in this State.
The spring crop of engagements
promises to be a bumper one. The Leslie
Lockwoods, of Nedlands, have news from
Tasmania that daughter Beryl, who has
been holidaying there for some months,
has decided to make her future home in
Hobart with Garth Baily. Norrie John
and Ralph Stodart, both keen amateur
actors, have given the cue that they will
say their lines before a padre soon,
Arthur Haw, of Pymble (N.S.W.), has
slipped a sparkling token on Margaret
Stewart’s fourth finger, and the E. G.
Lumbs’ only daughter, Dorothy, has
promised to become Mrs. Brian Simpson
in the near future.
Betty Campbell, one of the attractive
twin daughters of Mr. and Mrs. Ivan
Campbell, of South Perth, is busy flitting
from one pre-wedding party to the next,
Her sister, Mrs. R. A. Hobson, started
the ball rolling with a dinner party for
the principals ; Betty Ellis, future sister-
in-law and one of the trio of bridesmaids,
poured tea for crowds of girl friends at
her home in Crawley; Isobel Smith, an-
other bridesmaid, chose the Adelphi and
the cocktai , hour for her party> and Pro f.
threw, open hospitable
bridee
Niece departure for Mel-
boume was the reason for a gran d-scale
cocktail given b the A w . Jacobys
at their Bay-road home. Banks
of roges and ch . blossom and bow i s 0 f
sweet _ scented stocks made a love l y back-
ground f or tbe b j ack velvet swathings of
the boste and the tof honor took
hef fareweU si in an American suit of
lticolored sheer re dingoted with navy
crepe.
sheila, eldest daughter of Mrs.
clement, exchanged vows at St. George’s
Cathedral with John, Mayor Brinkley’s
ek iest son. Glistening folds of ivory
sabia from a heart-shaped high front fell
j nto a i ong tra j n veiled with Honiton lace
wb j cb was be ld j n pl aC e with a topknot
marguerite daisies and orange-
biossom> a retinue of ’maids, Elsie For-
resb j oan and N ancy Clement and
Shirley Read, billowed in the bride’s
wake j n trained redingotes of powder-
blue organdie.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Most 0 f Adelaide’s keen racing fol-
lowers wended their way eastward for
tbe Melbourne Cup, but some wives turned
b down - this time. Whitmore Carr,
chairman of the S.A.J.C., had to leave
M rs. Carr behind, as she is waiting the
re turn of her daughter from England
Mrs. H. P. McLachlan, after seeing 30
Cup races, also decided to give it a
rest jj. Allan Morris, chairman of Tat-
tersall’s R.C., never misses a Cup, and
be and b j s w jf e ma de no exception this
ye ar. Mrs. W. T. Mortlock also left for
Melbourne with her son John.
The engagement is announced of Eliza-
beth, daughter of Dr. and Mrs. J. B.
Cleland, of Beaumont, to Alfred, eldest
son of Mr. and Mrs. A. A. Simpson, of
Undelcarra, Burnside. The Clelands and
Simpsons have been residents in the dis-
trict for three generations,
At Malvern Methodist Church
Howard, only son of Under-Secretary
A. L. Read and Mrs. Read, of St. Peters,
was married to Keturah, only daughter
of the C. Leans, of Fullarton. The bride’s
white satin beaute was cut on slim lines
merging into a train, the sleeves long
and the neckline a V with a frill of
chiffon. Her long veil was of double
tulle held in place by orange-blossom.
She was preceded by the matron of
honor, the bridegroom’s sister, Mrs. E.
Ross Henning, and bridesmaid Rene
Holland followed. Those two were
frocked alike in powder-blue stiffened
lace redingotes over shot taffeta, the skirt
very full, the bodice made with up-
turned collar and revers, the short sleeves
finished with ruffles. They wore blue
velvet bands in their hair finished with
sprays of primroses, and carried posies
of the same mixed with forget-me-nots.
Mrs. H. K. Wendt, of St. Peters, gave
an afternoon tea-party at the South Aus-
tralian as a welcome-home for daughter
Lois, just back from the Malay States.
The party was held in the drawing-room,
where roses, lupins, irises and rhododen-
drons decorated. Tea was served on the
wide verandah in buffet style.
Mrs. Max Fotheringham, wife of the
Adelaide Rowing Club’s president, per-
formed the opening ceremony, and pre-
sented the trophies at the clubhouse when
the boating season opened on the Tor-
rens. There was a large crowd of youth
and beauty on the banks, and the com-
mittee entertained many at afternoon
tea, an orchestra providing bright music.
Lady Mayoress Barrett acted as cox-
swain to the veterans’ crew, stroked by
Kenneth Milne.
Mrs. W. Scammell, a former resident
of Adelaide, but now of Sydney, who has
been in Adelaide on a visit, gave a morn-
ing party at the South Australian to old
school friends. Many had not met for
a long time and enjoyed the opportunity.
The party was held in the lounge, which
was decorated with pink watsonia and
purple irises.
A library possibly unique has been
established in Adelaide. It is a new sec-
tion of the Children’s Branch of the
Public Library, yet is devoted to the
stage in all forms. Given by public sub-
scription in memory of Brenda Kek-
wick, a clever girl whose brief life was
largely given to the training of child
actors, it deals with the art from Shak-
speare to Gilbert, from marionettes to
the circus, whether from the point of
view of the juvenile player or the grown-
up producer.
TASMANIA.
Five days’ steady rain cleared up just
in time for the Hobart Show, which was
highly successful. The Governor was at
the committee luncheon before the open-
ing, and his lady appeared after lunch
to open the women’s industrial section.
Ring events were interesting. Dorothy
Davies collected the Henric Nicholas
Cup (her third win in succession) with
her horse Mons. Barbara Bennett, on
the old favorite Alert, was another suc-
cessful woman competitor.
Show Week started off with the
Jackson-Dick wedding and its attendant
festivities, which included dinner and
luncheon parties on the same day—and
went on with great vim to the end.
The Governor, in his capacity as Chief
Scout for Tasmania, took his wife to the
Scouts’ dance at the Belvedere, Lady
Clark wearing prune georgette with long
shoulder draperies. The Lady Mayoress
was in Wallis blue. There was a big
crowd, and the hall was gay with flags
and flowers. A guard of honor was
formed by Scouts under the leadership
of Scoutmaster L. V. Charlton.
Hobart became a City of Bells on the
occasion of Wanda Piesse’s wedding
with Lieut. David Logan, R.A.N. She
is the first bride for whom St. David’s
bells have rung a full peal, and this was
followed by a great tintinnabulation
from Trinity’s belfry. The bride, only
chick of the L. F. Piesses, made a dainty
figure in cream silk net mounted over
satin. The bodice was trimmed with
opal sequins, and a lovely old Honiton
veil fell over a cream tulle foundation
from a little circle of orange-blossom.
Pat Walch was the only ’maid, and she
and two little cousin trainbearers, Eliza-
beth and Jennifer Warburton, were
dressed in white organdie with a faintly
traced pattern of silver, and their picture
Leghorn hats were tied with blue ribbon.
A reception at Hadley’s followed, when
about 100 guests were entertained by the
bride’s parents.
Wanda Piesse’s pre-wedding parties
continued up to the last day of her
single-blessedness. Hostesses in the last
week were Mrs. Robinson and Mrs.
Broadbent, Mrs. T. A. Tabart, Mrs.
Seager, Mrs. C. A. S. Page, Mrs. H. C.
Nickolls, Mrs. Mace, Miss P. Spencer
Parsons, Mrs. Colin Bisdee and Tom
Tabart’s daughters, Mrs. Frank Vincent
(Melb.) and Mrs. Warburton. The big
affair of the week was the reception given
by the prospective bride’s mother, Mrs.
L. F. Piesse, at her home in Sandy Bay,
when the wedding presents were on view.
Mrs. Max Butcher’s party at Lavender
Gardens fell on a day of heavy rain, but
guests managed to put in a very good
time in the lounge and ballroom, which
were decorated with spring flowers. The
party was in honor of Lady Clark’s
birthday, though the date was anticipated
by a few days to avoid clashing with
Show Week festivities. The guest of
honor wore a black boucld coat and a
hat with fuchsia tones of floral trim-
ming. Mrs. Butcher’s navy tailored suit
went with a yellow blouse and Breton
sailor hat. Daughter Mary helped her
mother to entertain the 60 or so guests.
The opening of the yachting season
had to be postponed for a week on ac-
count of bad weather, and even then the
day was not of the best. There was a
good muster, however, and crowds lined
the shore. Appropriately enough Vanity
won the Beauty Prize.
Bothwell folk, rejoicing in the rain
that was saving their crops, though it
damaged their frocks, turned out in ex-
cellent spirits to the golf dance at the
Town Hall. A large contingent motored
up from town. Decorations were in a
scheme of yellow and blue, and the
home-made supper was something to
remember.


The Union Trustee Company of Australia, Ltd.
(Incorporated in Victoria .)
2 O’CONNELL STREET
SYDNEY
ACTS AS
Executor, Trustee, Administrator, Attorney, Etc.
(Established 1885.)
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE AND TOWNSVILLE.
Amongst the advantages derived:—
The Company never dies, never leaves the State, and is always available.
ABSOLUTE SECURITY, EXPERT & ECONOMICAL SERVICE.
N.S.W. DIRECTORS:
F. E. Bryant (Chairman); Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, K.8.E., M.L.C. (Vice-Chairman);
Sir Graham Waddell, K.8.E.; James Kidd; W. H. Mackay; J. Beresford Grant;
Colin A. Sinclair. Manager: J. G. H. Shipway.
(WRITE OR CALL FOR FREE EXPLANATORY BOOKLET.)
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
(Via ADELAIDE)
BY SEA
A DELIGHTFUL SEA TRIP AND SIGHTSEEING HOLIDAY.
TRAVEL IN COMFORT BY ONE OF THE LUXURIOUS
INTERSTATE LINERS—
M.V. “KANIMBLA”
M.V. “DUNTROON”
M.V. “WESTRALIA”
M.V. “MANOORA”
S.S. “ORMISTON”
FARES:
From MELBOURNE-—lst Class Return from . . £22/15/-
2nd or Cabin Class Return . . £l7
From SYDNEY—Ist Class Return from . . £27/10/-
2nd or Cabin Class Return. . . . £2O/15/-
FOR PARTICULARS, ETC., APPLY
ANY Interstate Steamship Company
The Sea Way Is the Best Way
BUY “SAVE TO TRAVEL” STAMPS.
The Long White Cloud
“Kohi”: One of the few gaps re-
maining before a passenger can circle
Maoriland by regular airline services is
being filled in this month, when exten-
sion of the Gisborne-Napier run to
Palmerston North will enable Bay people
to connect daily with Union Airways
machines flying the main trunk routes
north and south from Milson ’drome.
For complete air cover in the North
Island, services will still be required
from Auckland to Whangarei and be-
tween Auckland, Rotorua, Tauranga,
Opotiki and Gisborne, but these cannot
be established until local landing grounds
are ready for machines larger than club
’planes. The South Island is well ser-
viced by existing airlines, and not until
South Westland is much more thickly
populated will extension from Dunedin
and Invercargill to
the terminal of the
present West Coast
service be justified.
* *
“Kiwit”: Gloomy
population prophe-
cies based on the
static condition of
birthrates in dif-
ferent British coun-
tries have become
fairly common in
recent sterile years.
It has remained
for a Dunedin
(M.L.) Presbyterian
to point to a pos-
sible solution. He
says “there should
be more concern
about something
like a 40 - hour
week for mothers,”
as even under
Savage Govern-
ment legislation the
average wife and
mother isn’t enjoy-
ing shorter working hours —they still
have difficulty in securing suitable
domestic help and in paying for it when
they get it. There should be the germ of
another revolutionary idea here for one
of Mr. Savage’s legislative incubators.
Why not a sliding-scale provision by the
State of buckshee domestic help for
women with more than five children?
* * * * *
“M.”: Auckland and Wellington are
just warming to their old pastime of slat-
ing each other’s natural advantages (B.
6/10/’37). Until lately it looked as
though Maorilanders were losing their
facility for telling criticisms couched in
good, blunt terms, but now the Mayors
of the two centres have hopped into it
with right goodwill on the subject of the
trans-Tasman airline terminal. “Welling-
ton’s harbor,” said Auckland’s W’shup,
“is a mere pond beside the many shel-
tered waters of the Hauraki Gulf. There
is a tendency for Wellington to be greedy
—it has the seat of government; it is the
centre of civil-service life; it handles
more shipping than Auckland —but no-
thing can conceal the chilly fact of
Wellington’s weather disadvantages when
it comes to selecting a terminal for
an important air service.” Back came
Wellington’s W’shup: “Our ‘mere pond’
has an area of 63 square miles of land-
locked and splendidly sheltered water
there is no sound reply to the assertion
that for economic distribution Welling-
ton is the logical trans-Tasman air ter-
minal.” Not bad, but still not up to the
lusty traditions of past inter - city
squabbles.
* * * *
“Taniwha”: A condition peculiar to
Maoriland, which has existed for years,
is that in various industries some em-
ployees earn more than those in authority
over them. As a timekeeper in all sorts
of factories I have come across dozens
of instances where some especially skilled
workman (on “piece,” of course) was
paid more than his foreman, and as a
newspaperman (in the days before jour-
nalists’ awards) I assisted to bring out
more than one rag whose lino, men got
more than the editor. A recent investiga-
tion of pay in the M.L. coastal shipping
trade brought to light a similar state of
affairs. On one hooker the master got £45
sl month and the cook £4B ; on another
the skipper had to pay £5O to the hash-
slinger and take £4O himself. That’s
without overtime. There are no fewer
than five industrial awards governing
work on coastal ships. Cooks and
stewards are paid extra and at higher
rates for all work over eight hours a
day for six days; mates, too. In one
recent case a cook, signed on at £lB a
month, drew £4B at the end of four
weeks ; a mate at £26 10s. got £49. The
“Garbo be blowed! More like Wallace Beery to me !”
masters and mates don ? t get overtime for
Sunday work though, whereas cooks and
stewards get double pay. Funny thing
about the whole business is that the
smaller the ship and the complement the
higher the earnings.
* * * *
“Xo”: Every time I read of Maoriland
local-body amalgamations I shudder for
one old boy whose pet baby for too
many years to remember has been one
of Taranaki’s smaller county councils.
He’s never been a councillor, but the
council itself regards him as its unpaid
director. If he’s late, the meeting is de-
layed, and if councillors are a trifle hazy
on their reasons for refusing 10 years
previously to provide an access road for
Smith’s bush farm, he registers surprise
and proceeds to tell them in detail. He
interrupts council at will to voice his
own opinions—and, more often than not,
his advice is followed. His job? News-
paper reporter, and some years ago when
a chief with a sense of humor sent an-
other man along to cover the monthly
meeting the chairman regarded the inter-
loper as an affront to the council’s dig-
nity. I know, because I was the uncom-
fortable object of his constant scowl. If
Labor’s amalgamation stunt robs the old
newshound of his county council —well,
his explosive comments will be just too
tough on his blood pressure.
* * * *
“Korero”: Labor politicians in other
parts could get some useful tips from
Maoriland’s Prime Minister Savage, not
so much in matters of policy as in the
fighting methods he employs with such
open sincerity. He said lately:
I will plead guilty to being an idealist
and, if you will, to being a dreamer to
some extent; but I would sooner be an
idealist and a dreamer, spending my time
working out plans for the realisation of
my hopes and dreams, than go to my
grave as a great statesman who stood by
waiting for things to happen.
There’s a do-or-die vitality in that.
* * * *
“Paekiri”: Maoriland is drama-
minded these days. Each year the British
Drama League holds one-act-play festi-
vals, with provincial, island and M.L.
finals. So keen are the entrants that
M.L. finals may some day rival Rugby
Tests. The Dunedin Rep. Society
travelled all the way to Rotorua, at a
cost of £l2O, to compete in the M.L.
finals. The prize? Just honor and glory.
“Fergus”: A church social-relation-
ships committee in Christchurch de-
clares that sustenance payments are ad-
versely affecting the characters of many
recipients. “Doling out money to men
without work can have only deleterious
effects on the self-respect and physical
efficiency of most of them,” is the pun-
gent comment. Actually, conditions
originally applied to guard against ex-
ploitation of sustenance are themselves
contributing to its continued existence in
a time of increasing Maoriland pros-
perity ; if men supplement their incomes
beyond a low margin, they disqualify
themselves for the dole, and many of them
prefer to depend wholly on the State
rather than seek any sort of independent
living. The same thing has been ob-
served in Australia.
* * * *
“Kaha”: Travelling stockmen who
cannot produce a consignment-note cov-
ering their flocks will in future be due
for trouble in Maoriland. Legislation
to that effect will be presented to Par-
liament this session, supplementing the
present prohibition against the trans-
porting of stock after dark. Stock-
owners consider present anti-theft pro-
visions inadequate ; disturbed by recent
heavy stealing, the Dept, of Agriculture
has adopted a similar view. Under the
new regulations station-owners will be
free to obtain through authorised officers
an inspection of the papers of any per-
son travelling with stock on roads ad-
joining their property.
Hs * * *
“Avon”: With all due respect to his
authority, the late Macmillan Brown, I
can’t swallow “James K.’s” claim (B.
27/10/’37) that the Morioris were a race
“far superior” to the Maoris. There
really is no evidence that the wonderful
carved lintel Prof. Brown enthused over
wasn’t of Maori craftsmanship, and it is
strange, if it is Moriori, that only one
such example should survive. It isn’t as
though the Morioris had been extinct
for thousands of years. There were
Morioris living in the Chathams as late
as the beginning of this century, and if
they had any marvellous powers as
sculptors or civil engineers they kept them
very dark. The yarn about gigantic irri-
gation works in the Awanui Swamp, sup-
„ )osedly of Moriori origin, doesn’t fit in
with one of the few facts known about
the race —that they were nomadic and
didn’t go in for agriculture. The
Morioris, so far as those who have
catechised them have been able to dis-
cover, had no traditions whatever. Ac-
cording to Maori accounts of first im-
pressions (at least 500 years ago) they
were a race very low in the scale—lower
than the Australian abo. There is just a
possibility, which I have heard Prof.
Brown mention, that the lost race which
raised the mighty monoliths at Easter
Island may have ranged as far south as
Maoriland. There doesn’t seem to be a
record of any other breed in the Pacific
with enough energy to drain huge
swamps, or of any other civilisation
which would even dream that such a job
might have any utility. Even the Savage
Government, which is a whale on public
works, wouldn’t trouble about draining
the Awanui. The soil isn’t worth it.


Station,
>£4
4&
d
11
i
m
i
B
1
m
I
■
Ultimate Radio gives you world-wide recep-
tion with the same clarity and realism of
local stations. No less than 798 stations
have been logged by the Ultimate.
Ultimate Radio gives you maximum per-
formance. Here’s the proof—Admiral Byrd
used Ultimate on his South Polar Expedi-
tions Ultimate has won 9 Champion of
Champions Awards.
ULTIMATE
SOLE AUSTRALIAN CONCESSIONAIRES,
GEO. BROWN & CO..PTY..LTD
Electrical and Industral t.nginee
d • f- nm Write for full particulars.
Prices from 267 Clarcnce street. Sydney.
£29/18/- ’Phone: M 2544—3 Bines.
"RADIO”
The world-wide technical
authority of amateur, short-
wave and experimental radio.
Subscriptions are 18/6 per year in
Australia, acceptable at “The Bulletin”
Office, 252. George Street, Sydney.
“Radio” is published monthly in Los
Angeles (U.S.A.) under date as of
the following month; 10 issues yearly,
including special annual number; the
August and September issues (which
would normally appear in July and
August) are omitted.
Copies are mailed to subscribers direct
from U.S.A.
Read “Radio” regularly and keep in
advance of the times.
“Radio” is the fastest selling of all
radio magazines—on the bookstall
to-day, sold out to-morrow.
Subscribe direct and be sure of
your copy!
RAYMART
TRANSMITTER DIALS. Individu-
ally spun, heavy solid nickel dials
hf
with genuine
engraved divi-
sions and hand-
some knob . . .
diameter 4in.
only. Price,
retail .. 11/9
Every thing
radio and elec-
trical at the
lowest prices in
the State.
Telephone: 8W3109 (2 lines).
Telegrams: “Jonmar,” Sydney.
116-118 Clarence Street, Sydney.
RADIO NEWS
DON B. KNOCK’S PAGES.
WBJK Beam Array for 56mc.
Reference was made recently in
“Amateur Chatter” to the adaptation of
the popular WBJK Flat-Top Beam as
designed by Kraus, of U.S.A., for direc-
tional working on 14 megacycle com-
munication. One was made up for
special tests from VK2NO, and in final
form it appears as in the diagram. The
main support is a length of l£in. bamboo
pole, 17ft. overall, carrying three cross
pieces for the radiator spacing, and also
a right-angled support at the centre for
the matching stub line. Vertical polar-
isation appears to be of most utility—
subsequent DX tests may reveal the
need for horizontal polarisation —and it
is a simple matter to erect an array such
as this vertically.
Being only 2ft. 2in. in width, the sys-
tem offers very little wind resistance even
when installed at the top of a high mast.
It is light into the bargain. As it was
not possible to obtain a bamboo centre-
piece of the necessary length of uniform
diameter, two long poles were used and
the thin ends lopped off. They were then
fitted butt to butt with a centre-peg,
bolted through the peg with 3in. x l-16in.
screws, and finally bound securely with
stout twine doped with clear lacquer for
weather protection. The cross pieces
are of light lin. dowel timber.
In effect, the system is directional
“end-fire.” It consists of four half-
waves, two per side, spaced one-eighth
wave, and fed out of phase. The dimen-
sions given are correct for the centre of
the 56mc. band. At the centre of the
array the inner ends of the radiators are
crossed over as shown, and at the centre
a quarter-wave stub is fitted. In reckon-
ing the length of this stub the included
length of Ift. lin. to the cross-over from
each aerial length must be considered,
so that the actual projecting stub is only
3ft. 3in. in length from the cross-over.
Spacing of the stub and cross-over leads
is 4fin. for No. 14 B and S copper wire,
of which gauge the aerials are also made.
The length of each aerial is 7ft. 6iin.
The method of resonating is quite
simple. The transmitter is put into action
with reduced power, and the 600-ohm
line connected somewhere about Ift.
from the cross-over on the stub. An
R.F. meter is used as the jumper for
determining resonance, or, if a meter is
not available,, a lamp indicator can be
used equally well. This is adjusted along
the stub until maximum indication is
shown. When this is reached, the array
is resonant at the frequency of the trans-
mitter, and a shorting bar is soldered
in position at this setting. Next, the
power is increased, and the feeder line
checked for standing waves by using an
indicator device such as an absorption
wavemeter with lamp on the end of a
stick. This is moved uniformly along
the line from the aerial to the transmit-
ting position.
If large variations in R.F. current
are noted at intervals of about 4ft., the
line has standing waves, These are
reduced by moving the feeders along
on the stub-line until the R.F. is more
or less uniform along the line. It is
unlikely that standing waves can be en-
tirely eliminated, but they can be materi-
ally reduced.
If it is desired to use a twisted pair
line in preference to a spaced line, the
feeding of the array is greatly simplified.
The twisted pair (72-ohm line) is at-
tached at the end of the stub, and no
shorting bar is used. This method of
feed may not be so efficient as the spaced
line, but it is still quite effective. Alter-
natively the array can be fed by a tuned
“zepp” feeder connected at the cross-
over.
Hauling the array into the sky is quite
simple. A length of wood carrying two
hinge bolt sockets is lashed to the rope
halyard. Two hinge bolts are fitted to
the bamboo at the correct distance apart
and near the centre ; the two arrange-
ments are fastened together, and the lot
pulled to the top of the pole. As the
halyard is fastened straight up and
down, the array is kept vertical. It is
arranged for rotation simply by attach-
ing a rope to the extremity of the pro-
jecting wooden centre-piece holding the
stub line. By pulling on this rope the
array can be swung from the ground
through ISOdeg.
In practice the aerial gives exception-
ally good results, with low-angle radia-
tion. Results compare favorably with
the more unwieldy Bruce system. If
more experimental stations would instal
such directional arrays for u.-s.-w. in-
vestigation, instead of sticking up any
old thing and hoping for the best, better
all-round results would be obtained
locally, up to 100 miles or so, and DX
possibilities would be enhanced.
D.B.K.
Practical Hints.
Leads in plug-in coils should go direct
to the base-pins. Miniature inductances
formed by taking the lead wires once or
twice through small holes in the former
(with a view to making the winding
stronger) should be avoided, particularly
in transmitter applications. Applied
correctly, the solder in the hollow pins
can make any winding neat and firm.
Small toggle switches which have been
in use for some time can cause trouble
with high resistance “on” positions.
Wear on the moving element within the
switch causes it to make faulty contact
with the elements in the fibre lamina-
tions. If a switch seems at fault it should
be tested on an ohm-meter and if neces-
sary replaced—there is little hope of
effecting a repair.
When dealing with filament wiring it
is important that every part of the circuit
must be capable of carrying the current
drawn by the valves. . Wiring, valve
sockets, solder lugs and even the soldered
joints must be capable of carrying the
required amperage without voltage drop.
Sockets for rectifiers should be selected
for the generous surface area of their
contacts. Heavy gauge wire should be
used in conjunction with large solder
lugs and neat, firm joints.
VK6WZ.
Navigation Recording
Echometer.
A number of ships on the Australian
coast, Huddart Parker’s Wanganella, the
Adelaide S.S. Co.’s Manoora and
Manunda and the Mcllwraith McEacharn
liner Kanimbla among them, are fitted
with an electrolytic recording depth-
sounding echometer.
The apparatus shows, on a continuous
graph, as the ship travels, the depth of
water under the keel, a roll of paper giv-
ing the navigating officer a permanent
record covering the whole voyage. The
echometer, introduced by A.W.A., is
usually installed in the chart room. An
appliance fitted upon the ship’s hull
transmits a sound to the bottom of the
sea, the echo is received by a radio de-
vice, and the time occupied by the sound
is automatically converted to indicate the
depth of water in fathoms.
It is invaluable in the trawling fleet, as
it enables the skipper to locate the most
suitable depths, and in addition gives
warning of any projections from the sea
bed that might damage the trawling gear.
What's What in Radio.
Some idea of the advance in resistor
production for radio and electrical pur-
poses is given in the listed products of a
prominent U.S.A. Co. Their range in-
cludes a 7500-megohm continuously vari-
able potentiometer, a 50,000-volt resistor
measuring only 12in. by l|in., a 10,000-
megohm to 100,000-megohm metallised
filament resistor, a 400-ohm 200-watt 30-
megacycle resistor and a nine-cycle salt-
water immersion wire-wound resistor.
* * * *
In a paper delivered before the Insti-
tution of Radio Engineers (Australia) in
Sydney recently, the history and growth
of the N.S.W. Police wireless-com-
munication system was outlined by Ser-
geant W. G. Salmon, the officer in
charge. Much developmental work is to
be done in the future on ultra-short-
wave channel working for “talk back”
service between patrol cars and head-
quarters stations.
Radio Comment.
“Cluny”: Very few pleasure launches
carry radio receivers, and it is difficult to
understand why manufacturers have not
gone harder after this trade. A man who
can run a launch for pleasure can usually
afford to equip it with a receiver. Aerial
and earth are no problem whatever, and
batteries are available for power.
* * * *
“Mac”: A short anywhere between
earth and aerial can cause a complete
fadeout in an apparently sound receiver.
Points to look for are aerials erected on
metal rods and not properly insulated
from them, aerial wire in contact with a
galvanised-iron roof or downpipe, closed
type lightning arrestors which have been
accidentally short-circuited inside (screws
and nails from the other side of a wall
are often the cause), switch-type light-
ning arrestors with the pole thrown to
earth and forgotten, chafing of insula-
tion where earth and aerial wire are led
in side by side to the set, and contact
between semi-taut bare wires liable to
blow in the breeze between lightning
arrestor and terminals.
* * * *
“Norwood”: Poor earths, as well as
aerials, are the bugbear of most modern
receivers. Radio men preach in vain
against the growing habit of stringing a
wire round the picture-rail and calling it
an aerial and completely neglecting the
other terminal on the set. Modern re-
ceivers are primarily, it appears, pieces
of furniture. They must be arranged to
“suit the room,” generally up against an
inner wall where there is no hope of
effecting an earth connection. The only
practical solution seems to be running a
counterpoise round the skirting-board
underneath an indoor aerial. Except in
rare instances, the day of good average
hooking-up is gone for ever.
* * * *
“R.H.A.”: Rarely do technicians make
good on the programme side of broad-
casting, but John O’Connor, recently
appointed A.B.C. programme chief in
Westralia, provides one instance. A
grandson of the C. Y. O’Connor re-
sponsible for W.A.’s goldfields water
supply, John entered radio when 3AR
was privately-owned. He was then en-
gaged in “knob-twisting,” and continued
as an operator until an emergency in
Hobart some time later gave him his first
experience of announcing. In all he has
had experience of technical control, an-
nouncing and programme work. He has
been with 3AR, 3LO, 3DB, SCL and
7ZL.
Heard on Short Waves.
Dr. K. B. Gaden, at present using the
Ideal Battery T.R.F. receiver at Hughen-
den (Q.) during a tour of the country,
writes that he “wouldn’t change the


Somebody's getting
a Better Radio now!
Milliard
MASTER RADIO
Prices front £l2lO 6 .
Serving ALL of
WESTRALiA'S
RADIO HOMES
6AM is the ONLY station
that can give you com-
plete coverage. To in-
crease your profits use
6AM
Prince’s Chambers,
William Street,
Perth,
Western Australia.
ru
ean f d
r \
s
*cm
j™
M
mm
n a
<r'c
"W
Q
Radio licences cost the
same, no matter how your set
works. To get your money's
worth . . .
IE-VAIVE W|t h
THE WORLD’S STANDARD
RADIO VALVES
AMALGAMATED
WIRELESS (jjjjp (A/SIA) LTD-
AUSTRALIAN
GENERAL ||| ELECTRICI
NATIONAL ELECTRICAL
& ENGINEERING CO. LTD-
T.R.F. receiver for a 10-valve job.” Re-
sults certainly justify such praise.
“On the broadcast band,”, he writes,
“4QN is of course the best station, being
only 240 miles west of Townsville, but
3WV and 2CR can be heard all day at
good speaker volume. The aerial is not
a good one by any means. Reception
here is much better on broadcast and
s.w. than it was at Mt. Isa. Background
noises are less, whereas such trouble
spoiled many good stations at Isa. With
25ft. of aerial I got some excellent re-
sults between Isa and Townsville on the
train (when it was stopped).
“VK3LR was better in Mt. Isa than
Townsville during the afternoons, but
is much better here at Hughen-
den than at either of those places.
VK2ME is also very good in the after-
noons. This afternoon, 17/10/’37, re-
ception was comparable to my Camoo-
weal location, the four Daventry stations
being very strong from 5 p.m. Berlin
on 16 and 19 metres is very strong ; also
Paris and VK2ME. Night reception is
good on all bands, the 31-metre band
showing up best and 13 metres the weak-
est, but quite up to entertainment value.
GSJ is better than GSH.
“One night I heard a Daventry an-
nouncer advise Australian listeners to
concentrate on GSJ and GSO, and he
detailed the countries for which each
station is intended. The Berlin an-
nouncer does this regularly, but it is
the first time I have heard such details
from Daventry. GSO is the best on 19
metres, but DJB runs close up, and
DJR at 11 p.m. is very good. For news
at 11.30 p.m. GSO, GSJ and GSG are
about equal. On a recent night PCJ
was up with the best on 19 metres, and
after midnight was better than GSF.
DJE is usually better than GSG after-
noon and night.
“In the mornings the 25-metre band
is probably the best, with GSD the best
of a fine bunch. RNE, OLR and 2RO
are next. JZJ is weak, whereas JZK on
19 metres is the best on that band. At
times WBXK and W2XAD are quiie
good; GSB very good; and next in
order a Danish station or W2XAF on
31 metres in the early mornings. RNE
is now on at 9 p.m. and is excellent.”
Amateur Chatter.
Has. Turner, A2TM of early days, has
opened up on five metres in Sydney.
With a TNT oscillator using a 6A6 and
42 modulator, feeding a vertical Zepp,
he has a strong signal. It isn’t the first
time Turner has put a five-metre signal
across the city, for in 1926 he tested a
small outfit using a 201’A in a split-
colpitts oscillator, leaving it running on
C.W. all day whilst he checked up oc-
casionally on an inside aerial in a city
building.
Indications are that five-metre DX
should be possible this summer, for the
10-metre band is very lively at night-
time just now. On 23/10/’37, between
midnight and 12.30 a.m., several Euro-
peans were heard strongly; most out-
standing being G2XC and GBQC, who
were both Q5/R7. Nothing has yet been
heard of ON4AU on his schedules, but
there are at least three favorable months
to come. During watch on five metres
on ON4AU’s transmission times, a weak
T 9 signal was heard calling CQ. It
turned out to be a harmonic of the
VIS transmitter at Pennant Hill (N.S.W.)
calling ships for 36-metre traffic!
Two interesting letters have been re-
ceived, one from John Reinartz (WIQP)
and the other from E. H. Conklin, asso-
ciate editor of “Radio.” Both discuss
the possibilities of adaptation of the
Reinartz circular aerial for reflectors.
Reinartz, in adding a reflector portion,
alters the shape to that of a broken
square with a 4in. gap between sections
and feeds one side by a twisted pair line.
He believes that the system should be
erected horizontally in order to take ad-
vantage of the horizontally polarised
component, which seems to travel further
than the vertically polarised component.
Mu Conklin suggests a device used by
several American stations in the W 9 dis-
trict. This is only one circle of the
Reinartz arrangement; otherwise one
half-wave radiator formed into a hori-
zontal circle, and with a full-wave semi-
circular reflector spaced a quarter-wave
behind the open end of the circle. This
is used by several W9’s tilted 20deg. from
the horizontal, and is stated to give ex-
cellent results at 14mc. There is no end
to the possible variations of aerial sys-
tems.
VK4RM in Mackay (Q.) sends in a
report of doings there on 20 metres. He
has worked a Siberian station signing
UOLC and had a visit from Neils
Heyerdahl, ex-LA4C, who is now
“sparks” on the Norwegian motor vessel
Troja. The emergency gear is a TNT
oscillator using a lkw. “bottle,” taking
600-cycle A.C. on the plate. VK4RM
has been working with VR4OC in the
Solomons. When in Australia, VR4OC
is VK2OC, of Wyong (N.S.W.).
A letter from Wau, New Guinea,
says the station signing VK9BB is W.
Brown, formerly VK3BB. He now has
a crystal-controlled outfit ready for the
juice, and will be using two 852’s in the
final. Americans on the lookout for the
Australian ninth district should have no
trouble in copying VK9BB in the near
future. He is a radio operator with N.G.
Airways, and uses the amateur bands
for relaxation. At the time the Mackay
Expedition was at Tanami in Centralia,
he received VKSNO at R 8 on several
occasions on ’phone; not a bad per-
AID TO FREQUENCY CONSCIOUSNESS.
These two dials show clearly why the short-wave
receiver appears to be so much sharper in tuning
than the broadcast receiver. The band covered by
a short-wave receiver, or the short-wave range of a
dual-wave receiver, is ten times as great as the
broadcast range.
formance for a portable transmitter, and
ample justification of the twisted pair
doublet.
It was noticed in the early hours of
24/10/’37, when listening to strong
signals from England on 10 metres, that
a Queenslander, VK4UL, could also be
heard at the same time. If the five-
metre band develops similar character-
istics during late-night periods, then
there is every possibility of both inter-
state and overseas DX in the warm
small hours.
VKs interested in putting five-metre
signals across the Tasman may take heart
from the list of ZLs known to be on the
job. According to “Break In,” they are
ZLs IJD, 2VN, 3AS, 3DJ and 4FW, and
are using directional aerials for Aus-
tralia with an average of 100 watts input.
Regulations governing 20-metre ’phone
transmissions in M.L. are interesting. The
applicant for a 20-metre ’phone permit
has to nominate somebody to speak as
a “referee” on his operating ability and
technical qualifications. However the
condition may chafe, it will go a long
way towards ensuring a high standard.
If a similar condition applied to VKs it
would greatly limit the number of ’phone
men. There is also a suggestion in M.L.
that the “second ops.” be registered, and
that the licensed “first op.” be held re-
sponsible for the conduct of his protege
on the air. An amateur genuinely de-
sirous of becoming fully qualified would
not object to such registration. In Aus-
tralia, in any case, a visiting or addi-
tional operator at a station must be
licensed fully, or the licensee finds out
about things quickly from the vigilance
committees.
VK2NO.
"Radio" October Issue.
Current issue of “Radio” (Los Angeles)
contains a variety of interesting techni-
cal and topical articles. The story of
sound-on-film is told by F. Gonsett
(W6VR). A new five- and ten-metre
exciter for transmitters is described by
John Griggs (W6KW), and W. W. Smith
(W6BCX) gives details of a small port-
able station for emergency use where
electrical power supply is not available.
The receiver is self-contained, and the
transmitter will operate from an accu-
mulator with 1\ watts output on ’phone
or C.W.
A special superhet is described for 10-
metre reception, and there is a detailed
account of the extensive Grand Island
monitoring station for all radio com-
munication in U.S.A. Other articles in-
clude descriptions of a 50ft. extension
ladder mast, impedance measuring de-
vice, a compact 500-watt H.F. amplifier,
volume indicators and a forward-read-
ing “R” meter.
In the ultra-short-wave section there is
a comprehensive account by E. H.
Conklin (W9FM) of DX conditions on
five metres and the relationship to short
skip on 10 metres. There is also a
description of a five-metre test at an alti-
tude of 6300 ft. at Mt. Washington
Observatory. “Radio” may be sub-
scribed to, 18s. 6d. annually, through
The Bulletin Office, 252 George-street,
Sydney.
Interference Remedy.
The problem of radio-inductive inter-
ference —crackles, sizzling noises and the
like—in broadcast receivers is a difficult
one in some suburban locations. But it
can often be solved by the use of special
external aerial systems or line filters in
the power supply. The officials of the
Radio Inspector’s branch of the P.M.G.
are always available to make tests and
determine the sources of such interfer-
ence.
Often the blame for un-
wanted noises is unjustly
laid at the door of a near-
by amateur transmitter. In
some cases, however, in-
terference does arise from
an amateur station in the
vicinity, and it is particu-
larly likely to occur where
the station is engaged in
telephony tests.
Interference may appear
in different forms. If it is
in spots on the dial, then
the trouble is mainly with
the receiver design, but so
long as these spots do not
“sit” on a wanted broad-
cast station little or no in-
convenience is caused. If
the interference comes in
the form of a “blanket-
ing,” and the station can
be heard all over the dial,
the trouble may still be
with the receiver installa-
tion. Key-clicks for Morse operation
are, however, a matter for rectification at
the transmitting end, and any amateur
notified of such interference will immedi-
ately take steps to try to clear the trouble.
When “blanketing” occurs from speech
transmission, it is a matter for co-opera-
tion between the listener and the experi-
menter. In most cases, if is only neces-
sary to include between the receiver aerial
terminal and the aerial itself a radio fre-
quency choke consisting of a few turns
of insulated wire on a small former.
The writer recently met an aggravating
instance of such interference. When
working on 56mc. (five-metre) transmis-
sion, a broadcast receiver some distance
away reproduced the speech in full force
across the dial, despite all precautions at
the transmitter end. The receiver was a
modern superhet, but without R.F. stage,
and the aerial consisted of a few feet of
wire indoors around the picture rail. This
inside aerial was approximately 16ft.
long, corresponding to just about one
full-wave in length for five metres. An
R.F. choke inserted between the aerial
and the receiver overcame the trouble
immediately.
The choke consists of approximately
100 turns of 26 D.S.C. copper wire wound
on a cardboard tube in diameter.
Broadcast listeners experiencing similar
trouble from experimental transmitters
will be doing themselves and the experi-
menter a service by making up such a
choke and connecting it in the aerial. It
makes no difference whatever to broad-
cast reception.
ENNO.
Australian-made meters are to-day
equal to the best of overseas manufac-
ture. Palec model 475, the latest from
the Paton Electrical Instrument Co., 90
Victoria-street, Ashfield (N.S.W.), is a
combination protected-dial type,
across and measuring ohms, D.C. and
A.C. volts and decibels. The scale
length is 4.5 in. Parallax errors are re-
duced to a minimum by the knife-edge
pointer, and no flange screws are required
for mounting, a special rear bracket
being provided. State and Federal
departments use Palec meters extensively.
The Question Box.
Full name and address must accompany all
queries; and write legibly to avoid con-
fusion in addresses. Queries are dealt with
by post where the matter may be urgent,
otherwise answers will appear in this column.
(1) Enclosed is circuit diagram of two-valve
battery short-wave receiver. I am unable to get
overseas stations. Can you suggest any altera-
tion which would improve matters ? (2) Would
three valves make any difference? (3) How
does one go about obtaining an amateur trans-
mitting license? —609.
(1) Circuit is fundamentally correct, and
there is no reason, excepting faulty components
or valves, why good results should not be
obtained. As the circuit stands, it is as good as
any other two-valve arrangement using a triode
detector. (2) Yes, if the third valve is used
as a tuned R.F. amplifier before the detector.
See the Islands Three (B. 11/8/ ’37) for method
of coupling the R.F. stage in this kind of
receiver. (3) The Radio Inspector’s Depart-
ment in your State will supply particulars on
application.
* * * *
(1) My Ferranti seven-valve band-pass superhet
receiver operates on medium waves from 200
to 500 metres and on long waves from 1000
to 2000 metres. Could it be altered to receive
short waves from 16 to 50 metres ? (2) Which
would be the best aerial, an insulated wire
tacked round the outside of the house under the
guttering or a picture-rail aerial indoors ? (3)
Is length of aerial important? —6oB.
(1) Yes, but only by an experienced radio
man. Price’s Radio Service, Angel-place, Syd-
ney, would do the job. (2) The aerials would
be about equal in efficiency, which would be
poor owing to absorption from the house
structure. Best type would be an external
aerial held off the house, if only a few inches,
on wooden struts. (3) About 50ft., including
the lead-in (where an external aerial is used),
is the most effective. An indoor aerial should
be about this length also.


‘^SAGHri's
1A
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in
every Roll of Netting.
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Fencing Wire
'.me-.
e- >
o ,;
r'dT# B^
: >7.
'> ,/ : ■
V;
mmmm
SPECIFY
"LYSAGHT'S" WIRE, WIRE NETTING,
ETC,
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Brothers & Co., Ltd.
Head Of co 17-19 Bridge Street, Sydney.
THE MAN ON THE LAND
Ewes v. Wethers.
“Lion”: Does it pay to run wethers
on country that can carry ewes and
lambs?
We are solely fat-lamb breeders, and
carry only enough wethers to eat sur-
plus feed and to utilise some rough pad-
docks after, the ewes have had the best.
Even then there is ample feed for the
wethers.
During shearing, wool-cutting averages
were kept. The ewes cut many 12-131 b.
fleeces ; they had 90 p.c. lambs, which
averaged wool. The average
throughout of ewes was 10|lb., which
added to lambs makes 12jrlb. at least.
Quite a number of the wethers cut 13-
14Tlb. wool. Their average was approxi-
mately 121 b.
The wool followed through all lines,
which means that many ewes grew as
good top-line fleeces as the wethex*s.
There was a separate line of AAAW
wool, which was too strong to fit into
the AAAE. AAAA and 888 were able
to be carried throughout the clip. ■ i :
On the average, wethers’ wool will
fetch a slightly better price ; but that will
not make up for the 90 p.c. lambs to be
sold.
Wethers only are run on many a prop-
erty on which ewes could be run just as
well. More wethers can be carried than
ewes, but that. still won’t. make up for
the additional income from the lamb
sales.
When we took over our Riverina prop-
erty we were strongly advised to run
nothing but wethers. “The country
wasn’t suitable for anything else ;• besides,
flies were too bad.” We have turned it
into one of the best local fat-iamb prop-
erties. Hundreds of other, places could
be similarly treated. It is all a matter-.of
pasture improvement and growing oats
for the lambs, if necessary.. We have
proved that every additional expense is
adequately repaid several times over.
It is wise to run some wethers on all
breeding properties. Here we run 2300
breeding ewes and 800 wethers on 2000
acres, which 14 years ago carried 1500
wethers only. We turn our lambs off
fat, and often fatten anything up J to 150
head of bullocks as well.
Lucerne wherever possible and. sys-
tematic pasture improvement every year
is the secret. It is no use expecting big
returns if you are mean with super.
Store Classing.
“C.V.S.”: With the continual reduc-
tion in size of holdings in higher rain-
fall areas, shed classing is becoming less
attractive, and each year more and more
clips are prepared for market in brokers’
stores.
Fat-lamb raising has extended the
number of generally-used breeds, but to
avoid star lots the small grower should
choose a breed to suit his land and shun
multiplicity of types. Small lots often
contain more wool types than large
station clips.
Brokers work the reclassing and bulk-
classing departments in conjunction, the
reclasser sending any fleeces that will
not match his lines, as well as packages
of oddments, to the bulk lines. Though
mixed bales are sorted into a number of
lines, bulk-classing is a misleading term,
bulk handling being more descriptive of
the process as applied to fairly even
bales. As a method of interlotting, it is
preferable to the system of matching bale
with bale.
Shortage of Shearers.
“Albarmount?: Can see no reason for
“Murrawong’s” contention (B. 20/10/ ’37)
that shearers’ training schools could not
operate during the season. Several show-
ground pavilions are being used nine
months of the year as schools for wool-
classing—why not combine shearing?
Graziers in suitable districts may, too,
be willing to rent their sheds.
In most centres, shearing lasts three
months, and learners with continuous in-
struction and a flair for the job should
be able to barber 60 at the end of this
“Leave it an We'll 'ave a crack at another one.
period. Some would require a second
course. ■ ...
Plenty of small graziers without plants
of their own would be glad to have their
sheep , shorn for a small charge. With
six stands, one instructor could manage
12 to 18 pupils, shearing in'relays. Each
instructor should be able; to take classes
in two centres during the season, and us
handpieces \ and down-tubes • are easily
transported only the one lot would .be
required.
The suggestion to make compulsory
the employment of one learner to every
four. shearers, would' help overcome the
shortage, but the increasing number .of
small sheds would ultimately defeat the
object in view.
As. regards the definition of “learner ’
it would be better to restrict it to those
incapable of shearing, say, 70 sheep a
day, and who have not had more than
two seasons’ experience.
Those Mixed Bales.
“B-gar”: Many small growers still per-
sist in packing two or more classes of
wool into the one bale, branding the con-
tents as “Mixed.” Owners don’t seem to
realise that dealers and repackers reap a
harvest from these mixed bales, which
offered thus never bring full value.
Sometimes it is hard to avoid having
wool left over from the various classes,
but since most brokers practise bulk-
classing there’s nothing to prevent owners
of mixed bales getting full market prices
for their oddments, whether they range
from locks to fleece. For a small charge
per pound the broker will have the con-
tents of mixed bales placed among wool
of similar type and value in the bulk-
wool bins.
When contained in big bulk lines the
oddments never fail to bring top prices.
Growing Beef.
“Cow Punch”: If the Australian Meat
Board cannot do more than secure in-
creased quotas for export beef it had
better turn the job up at once. Aus-
tralia cannot fill its quotas with the right
kind of chiller beef, and while it con-
tinues to send John Bull a high percen-
tage of • low-grade stuff its reputation
must,suffer. <
Too "many producers think that so
long as a beast is in “good condition”
it will dp.; During tests conducted over
four years calves got by a scrub bull
were compared with calves by a pure-
bred bu}l, ; both from grade cows. Dur-
ing summer, the improved calves gained
.slightly over one-tenth of a pound a, day
faster than the scrubbers, and weighed
531 b. more at weaning time. In winter
the improved animals continued to gain
at the same rate; in the following
summer the gains were about equal.
improved yearlings ate more feed
each day, but they corisumed about 13
per cent. : less' concentrates and f 17 per
cent, less hay ■ per : 1001 b. 'of gain in
weight,'and put on their gain at about
ss. per 1001 b. of liveweight cheaper than
the scrubbers.
Further, the improved steers graded
much higher in quality than the scrubbers
as stores, as killers and as dressed car-
casses. They had a higher proportion
of fat, and their beef was considerably
more tender and attractive from a con-
sumer point of view.
Dairy Bull Points.
“Aerogenes”: The value of a dairy bull
lies in his power to beget high-producing
stock. The only sure method of gauging
his value is by actual test. The average
production of about six of hjs daughters
from different dams must ;be (taken and
compared with the average production
of those dams. The difference is directly
attributable to the bull.
In the Mount Hope index system the
simple average is used to give the bull
a “production index,” an amount of
butterfat which indicates his standard of
production just as surely as the figures
for any cow.
Quantity of milk and percentage of
butterfat in the milk are thought to be
inherited separately, so separate averages
are worked out for each, and all produc-
tion figures are corrected for age. Thus,
the average milk production for nine
months of eight dams might be 80001 b.
milk, average fat percentage 5, average
total butterfat 4001 b. For their eight
daughters by the bull average milk might
be 12,0001 b., fat percentage 4\ and total
fat 5401 b. r r '
For the bull the quantity of milk neces-
sary to bring 80001 b. up to 12,0001 b. is
16,0001 b. The butterfat percentage
necessary to reduce 5 p.c. to 4} p.c. is
4 p.c. These figures show the bull’s
standard to be 16,0001 b. milk, 4 p.c. of
fat, making 6401 b. total butterfat.
The system can be used to determine
the best mating for a bull to get the
desired standards of quantity or quality
of milk from the daughters. Of course,
conditions of feed, climate, etc., will
affect the figures, so that the system can
most successfully be applied by men in
close touch with the cattle concerned
and who can properly, assess the effects
of varying conditions on yield.
Registered or Not?
“Sante”: A number of breeders in the
Bega (N.S.W.) dairying district have sup-
ported the proposal that non-registered
cattle should be allowed to continue to
compete at the show.
The performance of registered animals
is usually stabilised or on the way to
stabilisation, but, however good the indi-
vidual unregistered animal may be either
in milk or conformation, it may not
transmit its qualities to its offspring.
Since the objective of shows is stock
improvement, not merely the winning of
prizes, admission should be granted only
to animals which serve improvement pur-
poses. The accidental “good one” which
may not be pure and whose progeny is
advertised on the strength of show-ring
ribbons is a menace to herd improve-
ment. •
Too much attention to pedigree is as
bad as no attention at all, but too much
importance cannot be attached to family
production records, which can be studied
only in conjunction with pedigrees.
/ r ■ l r -, s •'
N.Q. Coastal Areas.
“Marsh”: Tell “Walliew” (B.
.20/10/ s ’37) that no dairyman is likely to
become prosperous in the belt northward
from Mackay. Conditions- aren’t com-
parable with those on the Atherton
Tableland, and drought is known on the
coast. . . .. ;
From Mackay to Townsville, irriga-
tion is essential. Without it sugarcane-
growing would be a precarious business.
And, irrigated or not, the coastal pas-
tures are not conducive to rich milk sup-
plies.: Off the coast, a few factories


, ra
V
ShW/
&
TRAVEIi E E R S
Ay Sea, L and e-f Air
The Travel Department of the Bank of New
South Wales is completely equipped to serve
the interests of Travellers and Visitors.
Local and world tours arranged, bookings and
reservations made by sea, land and air, accom-
modation secured, baggage insurance effected
and advice given regarding passports and
income tax clearance.
A Traveller utilising the services of the Bank’s
Travel Department starts out with every detail
of his tour arranged in advance. No charge
is made for the services rendered by this
Department,
atis s rated.
TRAVEL DEPARTMENTS
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth,
Hobart, Cairns and Townsville in Australia
Wellington, Auckland, Christchurch and Dunedin
in New Zealand Suva, Fiji and London.
18 t 7
288 F. 1937
ON LAND
AND SEA/
fW? V
l. \:wm l
Glorious Sydney Harbour, a blaze of colour by day and nigbt, with
striking Aquatic Displays. Venetian Carnivals, Sporting Fixtures.
■■ . ■
i» j
«
luHii
T3L
mm.
WM. .
The first-fruits of Australia’s great national resources in the most com
prehensive Royal Agricultural Show ever presented.
■ -
Maßjf
| ijSu iwft, JjL ILi
*
n
m
Si
i..
Australia’s youth and beauty in surf carnivals and such important
sporting events as Empire Games, Tennis and Cricket.
In celebration of Australia s 150th Birthday, on January
26th, Sydney will he transformed into a Gala City.
Pageants, Carnivals, Sporting Events, Shows and
Exhibitions in rich profusion, will make memorable this
important anniversary of a young nation s birth. Sydney
will be in her merriest mood and gayest garb, the mecca
of all to whom the growth of a young and virile nation is
a matter for rejoicing. Come and pay your homage <—*
come and enjoy every moment of your stay.
USTRALIAS 150™
ANNIVERSARY CELEBRATIONS
SYDNEY - JANUARY 26 ~ APRIL 25 - 1938
operate, but attempts to establish a
butter factory at Townsville were un-
availing.
Both in the wet belt and where irriga-
tion is necessary, jute, cotton and rice
should thrive. Already in the Ingham
district trial plantings of jute have
proved successful. Owing to the limita-
tion of cane areas, thousands of acres
lie idle each year. With Government en-
couragement they might be used for
jute.
Disinfectant and Cream.
“Mookau”: Carelessness is generally
the cause of the “disinfectant” flavor
which often spoils otherwise first-class
cream.
Some farmers wash down machines
and utensils with phenol mixtures which
are bound to produce cream odors.
Condy’s fluid is easily the best disinfec-
tant for washing down teats ; the mixture
should be diluted to a medium pink
color. Sore teats call for applications of
petroleum jelly. Washing soda, a fine
grease remover, is the best agent for
washing down cans and machines.
These chemicals are just as effective as
carbolic-smelling disinfectants, and they
are cheaper.
Balling.
“Horsey”: Neither “Agamemnon” nor
“Centaur” seems to have a very extensive
knowledge of drugs (B. 20/10/’37). I
said (B. 1/9/’37) “first, give one quart of
pure linseed oil in which has been well
shaken up one fluid ounce of Battley’s
liq. opii. sed.” It is sure and quick in
action, and should work before the areco-
line.
Arecoline is painful alone, but not with
opium. It is a pyridine derivative of
betel-nut, which is a myotic and vermi-
fuge—it is often given to dogs as “areca
nut.” Betel-nut is chewed with lime by
natives in the East Indies.
As the smallest lethal dose of opium
for a man is four grains, the dose I
recommended is the maximum possible
in the circumstances. Where is all
this torture that “Centaur” writes about?
Pain is the first thing I took pains to
remove.
An Ideal Mixed Farm.
“Hortus”: The test of a small farm
is how it can stand up to a long dry
spell.
Dalkeith, Taree (N.S.W.), with an area
of 147 acres, maintains a herd of 84
Australian Illawarras, most of them
registered. It also runs a side-line in
pigs—180 to 200 Tamworth-Berkshire
light porkers are marketed annually.
Despite heavy hand-feeding recently,
there are still on hand 90 tons of silage,
five tons of maize grain and about five
tons of hay.
There are 25 acres of improved pas-
ture, the mixture sown 101 b. perennial
rye, lib. white clover, 51b. red clover and
41b. Italian rye. This area is divided
into five five-acre paddocks, grazing
milking cows at the rate of eight cows-
to the acre for three days.
Maize is grown for silage and grain,
saccaline for green fodder and silage.
Other crops include cereals for winter
and spring feed.
The farm is a consistent winner in the
R.A.S. fodder-conservation champion-
ship.
Lucerne and Skeleton Weed.
“Ek Dum”: N. S. Wales Agricultural
Department reports interesting results in
the use of lucerne to control skeleton
weed on heavily-infested land on the
borders of the Riverina.
Four plots were used for the test —a
control without lucerne and three planted
with lucerne at 51b. to the acre, with
lcwt. and 2cwt. super, respectively.
The lucerne established itself well and
beat the weed.
A second experiment on the property
of H. Armstrong, Tooyal (N.S.W.),
showed that 51b. to the acre lucerne
would thrive on 100 p.c. infested skelton-
weed country.
Sub. clover also is doing well as an
eradicator, though not to the same ex-
tent as lucerne.
In a large measure success seems to
lie in being generous with seed and
super.
Elephant Grass.
.“Broune”: Elephant grass (Pennisetum
purpureum), extensively used in other
parts of the world for pasturage, has
never become popular in this country.
Usually it has not been grazed at its
best. For cattle and horses the grass
makes excellent grazing when 2ft. or 3ft.
high.
Grazing when under 2ft., particularly
if heavy or continuous, will damage a
pasture, and the grass is woody and un-
palatable when over 3ft.
Elephant grass is suited to N. S. Wales
North Coast and Queensland conditions.
In such areas the growth is vigorous, and
up to 80 tons of greenstuff is produced
(Continued on next page.)


4008
A .4
THE THRIFTY MAN buys quality
Be sure to obtain your money’s worth when buying footwear.
The Shoe that lasts the longest is the cheapest in the end: the longer it lasts the
cheaper it becomes. That is why when buying Abbey Shoes you are sure of getting
your money back over and over again.
A Model made in Black Box Calf and in Brown Willow Calf 42/-. Stocked in full
and half sizes with medium and wide fittings.
"If it's an Abbey Shoe
it’s a good Shoe.”
ABBEY SHOES
“If it’s an Abbey Shoe
it’s a good Shoe.”
224 Pitt St.,
316 George St.,
SYDNEY.
Telegraphic Address: “ABBEY BOOTS, SYDNEY.”
ESTABLISHED
1834
THE
Commercial Banking Company
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP. . . . .. £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND . . . . . . £4,300,000 0 0
(Used wholly in the business)
RESERVE CAPITAL . . . . £4,739,012 10 0
DIRECTORS:
JAMES ASHTON (Chairman); EDWARD R. KNOX;
OWEN E. FRIEND; SIR WM. VICARS, C.B.E.j
ORWELL PHILLIPS.
General Manager:
C. DARVALL.
Head Office:
343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
London Office:
18 BIRCHIN LANE, LOMBARD STREET, E.C.3.
London Bankers:
The Bank of England; Westminster Bank, Ltd.;
Barclay’s Bank, Ltd.; National Provincial Bank, Ltd.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout—
New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland,
South Australia.
And at Canberra, Federal Territory.
Agents throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS
TRANSACTED
WHEN YOU BUY A
LUCAS
“KING t°h f e ROAD”
BATTERY
YOU CANNOT
BUY BETTER
ffluT&itlleiz/rL.
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
DOES ANYBODY KNOW?
“P.N.”: I am organising a company to plant
and treat ramie—sometimes called China grass—
but am experiencing difficulty in securing
locally-grown roots. Can any M.O.L. readers
put me in touch with Australian growers?
For Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids
SOLD EVERYWHERE
H. A. ROSE & CO. LTD.. Kina St.. Sydney
per acre during a year. A grazing is ob-
tained about every six weeks except dur-
ing winter.
Elephant grass is not killed out by
even heavy frosts, and it is drought-re-
sistant. At Hawkesbury College (N.S.W.)
it grows well on poor sandy soils.
Now is the time to plant. Space the
roots 3ft. apart in rows 4ft. to sft. apart.
Well prepared soil is advisable. Roots
can usually be had from Government
Experiment Farms.
Blue Panic and Sandy Country.
“Sandpatch”: Blue panic grass (Pani-
cum antidotale) is worth trying on sandy
soil. Its protein content is equal to
prime lucerne, and it is a wonderful
drought-resister.
Tried out on Orara (N.S.W. North
Coast) ridges, which are as poor as any-
thing in the State, it has given excellent
results. One patch grew three feet from
early in June until the end of September,
and is now in seed. In that time there
was less than two inches of rain.
B.P. will survive any drought that our
mixed-farming districts are likely to get;
it recovers rapidly, and keeps green when
paspalum and other grasses are dried up.
It has an extraordinary root system, and
develops hard bulbs something like a
small canna bulb. It can be grown from
either seeds or roots. On very poor
soils, half an ounce of super, per root
makes a vast difference to the rate of
growth.
Extreme frosts chop it back, but do no
real damage. On rich scrub soils it is
very prolific, and is now well established
in both the Gayndah and Nerang dis-
tricts, Queensland. Stock relish it. Cut
green, b.p. makes excellent hay, and
should be useful where there is a hot
summer and a liability to dry spells.
Rice.
“Mai”: When the growing of rice
with Australian white labor was mooted
just after the war, foreign experts
grinned. To-day, Australia grows the
best* rice in the world. It supplies its
whole 22,000-ton requirement and has
about an equal amount for export to
London and Island markets.
The average yield value per acre has
been about £l4, but output p.a. is in-
creasing. During the 1936-37 season, 20
acres of Late Caloro averaged over 3 }
tons per acre, while one bay produced
over four tons (216 bushels), more than
three times the 1931-33 average.
The average Australian yield is 1.8
tons p.a., double that of Egypt, five tons
more than U.S.A. and 3i times as great
as the average output in the Orient. This
is due not merely to Australian soil and
methods but to the development of
high yielding varieties of pure seed.
War on Codlin.
“Zedo”: The codlin moth is as big an
enemy to the fruit industry as the blow-
fly is to the sheep business. The moth
will, as usual, cost apple- and pear-
growers many thousand pounds this year.
A lot of the loss is unnecessary. The
moth can best be dealt with as a larva.
Moths come out of the cocoons from
October to December, and lay eggs from
two to four days after emerging, if the
weather is mild. The eggs hatch in from
seven to fourteen days, enter the fruit,
and grow up in it. Later they leave the
fruit and turn out a second brood, which
begins to appear from late January on-
wards.
A couple of calyx sprays, one before
the fall of petals is complete and the
second eight days after complete fall,
should do the trick with apple varieties
which do not blossom evenly. For even-
blossoming varieties spraying should be
at petal fall. The mixture is 2\ lead
arsenate powder or 51b. paste to 80gal.
water.
Pears should be treated three weeks
after the petals have fallen with the same
mixture as for apples.
Fox Baits.
“Tryit”: I doubt if “Turon River’s ’
methods (B. 13/10/’37) could beat this
one:
Shoot a couple of dozen sparrows. Put
a dose of strychnine into the breast flesh
of each, using rubber gloves to keep the
smell of your hands off the birds. Next
put sheep offal, or rabbits, etc., in a
wire-netting basket, roast them, basket
and all, and attach a piece of rope when
cool. Drag this across the known trail
of foxes, from behind a horse, and at
intervals bury a poisoned bird, leaving
the tail feathers above ground.
What must be a record is 11 foxes
from 12 baits, got last year; all were on
or close to the trail. Sheep-dogs may
follow the trail, but will never eat the
bait,
Hints for the Farm.
“Oku”: For bunchy-top in bananas
pour a half-pint of pure kerosene among
the heart leaves of an affected plant and
all plants with which it is linked. All
adjacent stools should be sprayed, too.
“X.T.”: In skirting fleeces, a common
mistake is to take off too much. Clean all
vegetable from the fleece, but, if this is
not possible, skirts should be reduced as
far as possible and the wool sold as seedy
or burry.
“Gumblegubbin”: When liming culti-
vation plots, especially with crops sown
in rows, drill the lime in with the seed.
Three hundred pounds of lime per acre
used this way will do as much good as
three tons distributed over the surface.
“Bullswool”: It is waste of time dip
ping cattle for lice with a normal arsenic-
soda dip, but with one gallon of cresylic
acid —a coal-tar disinfectant —in every
500 the dip becomes effective. Nico-
tine sulphate, 40 p.c. solution, loz. to
6gal., makes a good spray for valuable
cattle. Both dipping and spraying should
be repeated after 14 days, since a first
treatment, while it destroys lice, will not
destroy the eggs.
“Zamia”: In Queensland, the Mara-
noa and south-western parts of the State
in particular, Sudan grass hay and silage
are a great winter standby, and should
do much towards changing the practice
of turning cows off from autumn to
spring because of scarcity of feed. When
grazing Sudan, it should be mature to
avoid the risk of prussic-acid poisoning,
but this danger does not exist when it
reaches the haymaking stage.
“Florrie’s Ghost”: Queer the tendency
of otherwise practical Australians to
raise memorials. At a Queensland town
they have a hall to remember the work of
the cactoblastis in wiping out prickly-
pear. Now somebody has suggested a
statue to Melba XV, J. T. Cole’s cow
which established all-time world produc-
tion records. If the money were put into
prizes for young cattle judges, it would be
better spent.
“Walliew”: There were 21,574,182
sheep in Queensland in 1935, in 1936
18,060,093. This year shows an increase
of 10.81 p.c., numbers now standing at
20,011,749. The Downs and Maranoa
districts and most of the coastal divisions
have had a decline, owing to prolonged
drought conditions. Central Western dis-
tricts show an increase of 18 p.c,; North-
western, 21 p.c.; Far Western, 29 p.c.;
South-Western, 7 p.c. Longreach and
neighboring districts show 410,000 in-
crease equal to 49 p.c.; Cloncurry and
Richmond in the North-west and Isis-
ford and Winton in the Far West
increases of 15 p.c., 39 p.c., 29 p.c. and
32 p.c. respectively. The number of
cattle for the year fell from 6,033,004 to
5,950,572, owing to the drought condi-
tions, mainly in Moreton Bay, Wide Bay
and Downs divisions, and in Port Curtis,
Central West and Maranoa districts.
Edgecumbe and North-west districts re-
port a rise of 6 p.c. The number of
horses is 441,536, as compared with
441,913 in 1936. Other divisions except
Moreton, Wide Bay, Downs, Port
Curtis and the North-west report small
increases. It looks as though the day of
the horse isn’t over yet.
Pat Costello: Zebus do well in Fiji,
and under certain conditions are very
good in the plough, but breeders of beef
contend they are too wild. My brother
Dan bought one for his Suva butchery
—dressed weight, 11521 b.


FIRST OVER THE BARS
FOR HEALTH /
Vs
X!
\4
t
w
HI
55«
\
\\
21#
Sy/*:
7mm
i»
M
H
Ml
P 5
11
/\Vv\ v
1H
I
tt> i
m
'Ss:
i
■ft
■ft
•«©*«
wivX
RJ6INAC
OKCMEfy
STOI/J*
Ifca-
%
m
m
TOOHE
m
w 4
OATMEAL STOUT
Agents:
VlCTORlA—Goldsbrough, Mort & Co., Ltd., Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND —Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., Brisbane.
CENTRAL Q’LAND: Dalgety & Co., Ltd., Rockhampton.
TOOHEYS, LTD.,
STANDARD BREWERY, SYDNEY
//
SOUTH AUSTRALIA—DaIgety & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA—MiIne & Co., Perth.
TASMANIA—Ferguson & Co. Pty., Ltd., Hobart.
Northern Agencies Pty., Ltd., Launceston.


Q N
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman); W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager— D. S. FORBES.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 98
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the W’orld, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
Short Story
‘Writing
tyree Lance
journalism
Learn and Earn The most thorough and practical
in Spare Time ! Course of Training ever written I
Instruction and Constructive Criticism by Practical
Journalists and Short Story Writers . . . You learn
how to wiite and how to sell your stories and articles.
Full details sent on application to
I.C.S. School of Journalism
140 Elizabeth Street, Sydney
Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Girl (19), N.S.W., typist (40 words per min.,
shorthand 100), knowledge of bookkeeping,
English and correspondence, wants position.—•
7597.
Young woman student, N.S.W., wants posi-
tion in another State during summer vacation.
—7599.
Energetic carpenter, N.S.W., used to all re-
pairs, painting, kalsomining, etc., good practi-
cal gardener, wants work on station or in
country district. —7617.
Young man wants mail order or similar
work—7582.
Exp. young man wants library research work,
literary or technical. —7584.
Exp. freelance seeks employment in which
his services and small printing plant could be
used profitably.—7583.
To buy small business, capable of expansion,
consider anything.—7581.
Information Sought.
What was the rate of scoring in each innings
by England and Australia in the last series of
Test matches in Australia? —7618.
England. Australia.
Runs. Mins. Runs. Mins.
First Test— 358 401 .. 234 348
256 391 .. 58 71
Second Test— 426 489 .. 80 107
— — ..324 390
Third Test— 76 114 .. 200 283
323 278 .. 564 622
Fourth Test— 330 435 .. 288 335
243 294 .. 433 519
Fifth Test— 239 324 .. 604 606
165 207 .. — —
Totals 2416 2933 2785 3281
* * $ *
What were the figures of fast bowlers Nash
and McCormick in the fifth Test at Melbourne
last March ? —7616.
Overs. Mdns. Runs. Wkts.
First innings—
McCormick 13 1 54 0
Nash .. .. 17.5 1 70 4
Second Innings—
McCormick .. 9 0 33 2
Nash .. .. 7 1 34 1
* * * *
In what Rugby Union matches did C. G.
Wade ( one-time Premier ), “Dally” Messenger
and Rev. “Tonga” Moulton represent N.S.W.,
and in vAiat positions did they play? —7620.
Wade played v. Great Britain in 1888, and
v. Queensland in 1888; Messenger v. M.L. in
1907, and v. Queensland in 1906 and 1907;
Moulton v. Great Britain in 1888, and v. Queens-
land in 1891 and 1892. All three players were
in the three-quarter position.
* * * *
Who are the members ' of the Sydney Cricket
Ground Trust? —7614.
H. Moses (chairman), W. McKell, (vice-chair-
man), E. A. Buttenshaw (Minister for Lands),
G. Allman (Under-Secretary for Lands), A.
Howie (Lord Mayor), J. C. Watson, M. A.
Noble, H. H. Massie, R. L. Jones, R. E. Hal-
loran and R. A. Oxlade.
* * *
(1) Cost to fly from Melbourne to Brisbane?
(2) Is there a daily service ? (3) Stoppages on
route ? (4) Times ? (5) Are passengers picked
up in the city and taken to the ’drome by the
co.? (6) Luggage allowance? —7610.
(1) By Airlines of Australia, £13 10s. single
and £25 return. (2) Yes, except on Sundays.
(3) Only Sydney. (4) Leaves Melbourne noon,
arrives Sydney 2.45 p.m., leaves 3 p.m. and
arrives Brisbane 5.45 p.m. (5) Passengers join
car at the office, 372 Flinders-street, Melbourne,
and are taken to the airport. Cost is included
in fare. (6) Suitcase weighing 351b. is allowed
free, excess 6d. per lb. Melbourne to Sydney
and 9d. per lb. Sydney to Brisbane.
* * * ' *
l have a Ford A model and want to grind
the valves, which have a club-shaped bottom
to the stem. I believe they have a collar sepa-
rate from the engine block to guide the valve
stem. How can I remove this collar? Any
special tool required? —7525.
The only tool required to remove the guides
can be made from a piece of fin. round mild
steel ground flat on one end and bent to fit
under the head of the valve to the top of
the valve guide. With the valve in closed
position compress the spring sufficiently to
remove the spring retaining the cotter. Release
the spring tension and turn the engine until
the valve is wide open, when the guide, which
is in two pieces, can be punched down and out
with the bent punch..
S& * # ❖
(1) How much has the Q’land Government
spent on prickly-pear eradication? (2) Has any
other Government in Australia spent money for
a similar purpose? How much? (3) With
what result? —7480.
(1) Directly and. indirectly £1,178,000 has
been spent on the prickly-pear pest in Q’land.
This includes the cost of land administration
in respect of 60,000,000 acres which were
within the region of infestation. (2) Yes, the
Commonwealth and N.S.W. Governments have
made contributions in connection with bio-
logical investigation into the control of prickly-
pear—C’wealth £90,000, Q’land £45,000, N.S.W.
£45,000. N.S.W. has also incurred consider-
able expense through its Prickly-pear Destruc-
tion Commission. Figures are available from
the commission. (3) Infestation by pear will
remain for many years; in fact, infestation
to a certain degree is necessary to provide food
for cactoblastis, the insect enemy of the pear.
The Q’land Land Administration Board in its
annual report to Parliament said last year that
the prickly-pear menace had been overcome
and was becoming merely a memory.
V *i* ¥
Is there an absentee tax in Victoria on shares
in investments and interests from bank deposits
and debentures ? Rate ? —7296.
A Victorian resident receiving income from
property (dividends, rents, interest, etc.) from
sources outside Australia is taxable in Vic-
toria on such income for State (special) and
unemployed-relief tax purposes. He is also
taxable for State (ordinary) and Federal pur-
poses in cases where the income is not exempt
from income tax in the country in which it was
derived. A Victorian resident is, however,
subject to special unemployed-relief tax only
when his income from all sources exceeds £lO4.
He is subject to State (ordinary) tax when in-
come exceeds £2OO and to Federal tax when
income exceeds £250. Rates and amount can
be determined only when full details of total
income are available.
* * * *
How may a German obtain permission to
immigrate to Australia ? Conditions ? Any
other particulars ? —6981.
All persons of foreign nationality desiring
to enter Australia are required by the Dept,
of the Interior to hold landing permits. Appli-
cations for permits are generally given favor-
able consideration in the respect of white
aliens who will engage in occupations in which
there is opportunity for their absorption with-
out detriment to Australian workers and who
have £2OO (Aust. currency) landing capital.
Application should be made to the Under-Sec-
retary, Dept, of the Interior, Canberra, F.C.T.
* * * *
(1) What is the industrial award for gold-
miners in N.S.W. ? (2) Address of the union
which controls goldminers? —73B7.
(1) The Metalliferous Miners, etc., General
State Award of Feb. 15, 1935, and including
subsequent alterations, is obtainable from the
Dept, of Labor and Industry, 142 Pitt-street,
Sydney. The award contains a large number
of classifications and rates depending on the
type of work done. Present wage for a miner
stoping and driving and in deep leads is £4 9d.
per week of 5f shifts. These wages will be
increased in accordance with the recent Indus-
trial Arbitration (Amendment) Act as from
the first pay period of this month (October).
There is pending at present anew Metalliferous
Miners General (State) Award. There is also
a Metalliferous Miners, etc., Dredging (State)
Award which applies to employees mining gold
from dredges. (2) The union concerned in the
industry is the A.W.U.; the address of the local
secretary, E. Grayndler, St. Andrew’s-place,
Sydney.
* * * *
(1) If a man now living under legal separa-
tion from his wife dies intestate, can she claim
his estate ? (2) If he makes a will, what pro-
portion of his estate is he compelled to leave
to her by Q’land law ? —7540.
(1) A “legal separation” does not operate
as a divorce. She is stjll his wife,- and if he
dies intestate would be entitled to one-third
of his estate, the remaining two-thirds being
divided among the children, share and share
alike. (2) No fixed proportion, but should the
provision made in the will be considered inade-
quate the wife may apply to the Court to have
it increased.
* i'S sj: #
Is the American term “pig Latin” the same
as the English “dog Latin” ? —7435.
No, it denotes what is known in England as
“backslang,” a kind of secret language in
which the first consonant of an ordinary word
is taken off and placed at the end, a vowel
sound being then added.
* * *
Translations of the following French phrases:
(1) “Le silence et la modestie sont qualitez
Ires commodes ala conversation” ? (2) “Les
esprits mediocres condamnent d'ordinaire tout
se qui passe leur portee” ? —7479.
(1) “Silence and modesty are very valuable
qualities in the art of conversation.” (2) “Medi-
ocrities generally condemn everything which
passes their understanding.”
* $ * #
Author and translation of “II verso e tut to.
Nella imitazione della natura nessuno istrumento
d’arte e piu vivo, agile, acuto, vario, molti-
forme, plastico, obediente, sensible, fedele” ?
7553.
Gabriele d’Annunzio. It means “Verse is
everything. In the imitation of nature no in-
strument of art is more lively, agile, keen,
varied, many shaped, plastic, biddable, sensi-
tive, sincere.”
;jc ;j« :|c
Brief biography of Sir Ernest Clark? —7533.
He was born April 13, 1864, educated
privately and at King’s College, London. He
was called to the Bar, Middle Temple, in
1894, became a civil servant and was lent
to the Cape Government 1904-05. Was con-'
nected with taxation as Asst. Sec Inland
Revenue and Sec. Royal Commission on
Income Tax, and was later Asst. Under-Sec. in
Ireland and Sec. of the Treasury, Northern
Ireland. He was created K.C.B. in 1924, kt.
1920 and C.B.E. in 1918. He was a member
of the Australian Economic Mission 1928-29,
and was appointed Governor of Tasmania in
1933.
* * * : ' :
(1) What ornamental trees and shrubs would
do well in a cold, black-soil part of the Darling
Downs? (2) Where is the natural home of the
red flowering gum? —7l69.
(1) Trees: Acacia pendula (weeping myall),
Ceratonia siliqua (carob bean), Celtis australis,
Melia composita (white cedar), Schinus molle
(pepperina), Schinus terebinthus (broad-leaved
pepperina), Sterculia rupestris (bottle tree),
Sterculia trichosiphon. Shrubs: Cassia can-
dolliana, Cestrum elegans, Euonymus japonica,
Lagerstroemia (varieties), Hibiscus syriacus
(varieties), Ligustrum lucidum, Ligustrum
aureum (golden privet), Nerium oleander
(varieties), Spiraea reevesiana (may), Tecoma
stans. (2) The red flowering gum, Eucalyptus
ficifolia, is indigenous to a comparatively small
area of W.A.
* * * *
(1) Of what value is gypsum as a fertiliser
for wheat? (2) How much per acre? (3)
Should it be used in soils deficient in phosphates
and nitrates ? (4) What is its commercial value ?
(5) Is it difficult to obtain ? —7225.
(1) and (2) Gypsum has no manurial value
under general conditions in W.A. It is classed
as a soil ameliorator and used at the rate of
icwt. to five tons per acre to improve the tex-
ture of heavy clay soils. (3) No, nor for wheat-
growing in W.A. (4) and (5) It is obtained in
W.A. from several salt (gypsum) lakes occur-
ing in the wheat belt, and is used in the manu-
facture of plaster of Paris and cement. Usually
it is shovelled up and conveyed by rail in open
trucks to the factories. It is rarely bagged.
For plaster-making it must be free from iron,
which would stain the final product, but such
impurities are not detrimental in the manu-
facture of cement.
* * * *
(1) Particulars concerning a M.L. tree called
the manuka? (2) Would the tablelands of
N.S.W. be suitable for its growth? (3) Where
can seeds be obtained? —7jol.
Manuka ( Leptospermum scoparium ) is very
closely related to the Australian tea-tree,
botanically belonging to the various species of
Leptospermum. (2) Probably it would grow
quite well, but it needs a fairly moist soil for
its best development. (3) The seeds should be
obtainable from any of the larger seed mer-
chants in Sydney; it should be emphasised that
the plant required is the M.L. one, otherwise
some of the local species might be substituted.
The local species, however, are very similar
to the manuka, and are worth cultivating.
* * * *
(1) How to set a slide valve of a Worthing-
ton pump? (2) Any agents in Sydney? —7364.
(1) Place one piston at the exact centre of
its stroke. The slide valve of the opposite
cylinder should then be placed in mid-position
covering all the ports. The setting is correct if
the valve-rod nut is then equidistant from the
lugs on the back of the valve; if it is not, dis-
connect links from valve rod and adjust by
turning the rod till the lost motion is equally
divided. Repeat the operation with the other
piston and its opposite cylinder. In pumps of
lOin. stroke and over, having four nuts on each
valve spindle, the lost motion is divided by
adjusting the nuts on both sides of the slide
valve without disconnecting the spindles. (2)
William Adams and Cos., 175 Clarence-street,
Sydney.
* * * *
At different intervals I have cemented a
galv. irdn tank, using various mixtures, and
although the tank appears watertight the water
still leaks through the cement. Any sugges-
tions ? —7572.
Mixture appears to be the trouble. Sand
should not be all fine but varied up to par-
ticles which will just pass through a No. 4
screen. Mix the concrete in proportions cement
1, sand H. Use the least water possible to
give a workable plastic constituency (not over
sgal. per paper bag of cement when the aggre-
gates are dry), and mix it thoroughly until it
is a uniform color. If possible to join fresh
and old concrete ensure a good bond by clean-
ing thoroughly and placing a 1 : 1 mortar mix
on the joint.
* * * *
(1) What is the difference between catalin and
casein? (2) Where obtainable in Sydney? (3)
Any books? —7414.
(1) Casein is the chief protein substance in
milk and is generally prepared from separated
milk by addition of dilute acids or rennet ex-
tract, It is used in the manufacture of cements,
adhesives, paper, paints and plastics such as
artificial stone, bone and ivory. These casein
plastics are on the market under various trade
names, including Galalith, Lactoform, Sicalite,
Lactite, Lactoid, Karolith, etc. Cannot trace
catalin, which is possibly a trade name. (2)
From Jas Bell, 109 Pitt-street. (3) Casein, Its
Preparation, Chemistry and Technical Utilisa-
tion, by E. L. Hague; publishers, D. van Nos-
trand, New York. Books and papers could
probably be seen in the research section of the
Public Library.
* * * *
A recipe for making (1) olive-oil soap, (2)
oatmeal soap ? —7252.
(1) Lee’ s Priceless Recipes gives the following
method for the preparation of olive-oil soap:
olive oil 71b., soda l|lb., in sufficient water;
the soda must be rendered caustic before adding
it to the oil and heat then applied. An easy
way of preparing the soda is to treat it in a
solution with powdered quicklime. The soap
is mottled by adding a solution of sulphate of
iron while in the liquid state. (2) To prepare
oatmeal soap, make a saturated solution of
borax (pulverised is best), cut into it pieces of
fancy Castile or glycerine soap; let the mixture
boil until the soap is dissolved ; make it as
thick as cream by boiling, or adding solution if
too thick; then stir into the mass oatmeal enough
to make a soft paste, and stir until it cools and
hardens. A little, sulphur, also pulverised
camphor or sulphur, may be mixed with the
meal. While warm and soft, place in a box,
so that when hard it may be turned out and
cut into squares.
Brief Answers.
J.R. (1) and (2) Condamine (Q.) was founded
on June 5, 1827, by Allan Cunningham. (3)
The earliest figures obtainable are for the
police district of Condamine in the census of
1861, when the population was given as 124.
....F.E.: Impossible to recommend any treat-
ment, as such conditions need careful examina-
tion and expert treatment... .J.H.S.: Table IV,
pages 26 and 27 of the 13th report of the
Charities Board, shows the source of income
of hospitals in Victoria. Private subscribers
do not enjoy any privileges in respect to treat-
ment at the institutions, but if their contribution
is £1 or over annually they are eligible to
vote at the annual and special meetings of the
institution. A copy of the report mentioned is
obtainable from the Charities Board of Vic-
toria, 61 Spring-street, Melbourne J.C.M.:
Write Mitchell Library, Macquarie-street, Syd-
ney.... R.T.: Get in touch with Dr. Wool-
nough, Geological Adviser, Department of the
Interior, Canberra, F.C.T H.C.: Attunga,
“a high place”; Arrabi, ‘‘a high mountain”;
Bangalow, “a low hill”; Bibbenluke, “big look-
out” ; Binya, “a big mountain”; Coolangatta,
“splendid view”; Nioka, “a green hill”;
Willowie, “green trees and water”; and Yuruga,
“extensive view”... .M.J.D.: Baradine means
“red wallaby” and Patonga “a small wallaby.”
. ...M.W.C.: Write Kernerator and Wall Bed
Cos., 12 O’Connell-street, Sydney... .R.G.H.:
The Q’land Forestry Department bought some
ring gidya some time back from one of the
western towns at £5 per 100 super, on trucks.
There is only a limited demand for this species,
it mainly being used for fancy articles... .R.T.:
Having entered into the lease you are bound
by its terms. The fact that it was not stamped
can be remedied by the landlord paying the
stamp duty and the fine imposed, thus enabling
it to be produced in court. You should en-
deavor to effect a compromise. The lease may,
with the approval of the landlord, allow you
to sublet; if so, you might find a tenant.
Alternatively, you might arrange with him for
the payment of the rent by instalments spread
over a period that would enable you to meet
it G.G.: Half-farthings were issued from
1843 to 1856 inclusive, and then were discon-
tinued. They are not rare, and a specimen
in Mint condition is of a collector value of Is.
If not in Mint condition, but showing no
sign of wear, collector value 6d J.D.:
Edward Williams was executed on April 29,
1924 S.C.: This can easily be dyed at home.
Use one of the good boiling dyes procurable in
packets, and follow directions carefully. The
raffia should be soaked in cold water before
immersion in the dye; try a small bundle to
test the shade before immersing the whole
quantity. It is most easily handled if lightly
knotted into hanks, but knots must not be so
tight as to prevent the dye from penetrating
evenly... .J.P.: Place the mustard in the re-
ceptacle and blend it smoothly to the right
consistency with vinegar; then add one drop of
olive oil to every half-teaspoon of dry mus-
tard used... .N.D.: A Manual of Library
Organisation, by B. M. Headicar (175.), A
Manual of Library Routine, by W. E. Double-
day (175.), Lending Library Methods, by L. M.
Harrod (215.) and How to Run a Rental
Library, by Conklin (Bs. 3d.)... .J.L.S.: A
worn George 111. shilling (1817) would be worth
only face value; if in Mint condition, Is. 6d.
, ...G.S.: Wash hair thoroughly twice a week
with soap and spirit (any chemist); dry well.
Suitable lotion is perchloride of mercury 2gr.,
salicylic acid 10gr., castor oil ldr., rectified
spirit 40z., rubbed in thoroughly every day....
F.L.: Consult Society of Australian Genealo-
gists, 91a Phillip-street, Sydney... .S.R.: .It is
not usual to paint the inside of tanks to hold
oil fuel or residual oil. This is non-corrosive,
and therefore will not attack an iron vessel
in which it is stored E.C.F.: There are
established collectors of scrap metal in most
of the larger country towns, also some very
competent buyers who work from Sydney and
Newcastle. The work in connection with the
proposal is strenuous, and experience has been
bought by those who now do the collecting.
G.F.: Write Secretary, Air Board, Defence
Department, Melbourne E.A.S.: Allowrie,
meaning “bubbling water,” or Bermagui, mean-
ing “a canoe with paddles” J.L.1.: The
“Lone Hand” first appeared in May, 1907
R. The lines should read: “Life’s a jest, and
all things show it; I thought so once, and
now I know it.” They are. from Gay’s
“Epitaph on Himself”... .J.R.S.: Belgian
hares have not been introduced into N.S.W.
Under the existing regulations in N.S.W.
Angora and Chinchilla rabbits can be kept
only by licensed persons in the counties of
Cumberland and Camden W.A.H.: (1) From
General Register Office, Somerset House,
London. (2) ss. Id. in English currency. (3)
N 0... .J.R.8.: J. A. Mollison flew from New-
foundland to Croydon in 1936 in 13 hours
17 minutes....P.M.C.: (1) No. (2) Yes. (3)
Yes R. 8.: Personal equation is “any ten-
dency to error or prejudice due to the personal
characteristics of some person for which allow-
ance must be made” J.H.: By an electro-
lytic process too involved to describe here
S. : Rub with a stiff brush, using benzine
or dilute solution of ammonia C.W.: Ques-
tion is too general... .L.D.: The Hittites were
an ancient race of northern Syria, and were
subject to Solomon, to whom they paid tribute.
K.L.E.: (1) For the major conjugate (dis-
tance between lens and sensitised paper), multiply
the focal length of the lens by the number
of diams. of the enlargement and add one focal
length. For the minor conjugate (distance be-
tween the lens and negative) divide the focal
length of the lens by the number of diams. of
the enlargement and add one focal length. (2)
As the diameter of the enlargement is doubled
so the exposure is squared, provided that nega-
tive densities are constant L.F.: The mice’s
food is probably too heating. Rub in a mixture
of vaseline and sulphur and sprinkle a pinch of
sulphur on bread and milk three times a
week, or give them a little Epsom salts in water
and withhold all moist food. Increase their
rations of grass and vegetables GJ.L.: In
the event of the death of one executor the sur-
vivor carries on; if both die, application must
be made to the Court for the appointment of
executors or an administrator (Many others
mailed.)


"The Bulletin” welcomes sugges-
tions for humorous drawings. Only
original jokes will be considered.
A minimum payment of 7s. 6d. each
on acceptance.
. the -Wonders of
tViati a mil e
„ r eat horseshoe mote * # . .
. FAlXS ’\ue United States fj dby sheer
between the high, J® Co lorado s
, Valley, nearly wale rfalls .• • y a \l e y,
cliffs with pl«ngtn|j tah , B Monument
of the Gods • ■ e ' wor ks of ' laU TCeW Mexico' 3
fature co ?f*( Carlsbad ica > 9 vast
’'« !aUl tndeltnd. All of Atn
anean wo forget! splendid
that »°.° ne na , together Vbors
(gating are aUnear v
n cities and £ int erlace A , ete wi th
cause rai effortless, swif , They ioin
I on her S"S refreshing
ISU andtouuesoi
’ion (only onee^ n g
> meals tn « fhe luxury veep one le
ovation ca« offer t he lp£ P»v-
tries.Vale < “incidental costs, e( onomy .
«w'*- l ; X “: t^thTmiddle
BBSssaiWSSSS*
:lantic, with economical lan d, Fi]r,
Answers to Correspondents
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will
be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on
the MS. No liability is undertaken re con-
tributions voluntarily submitted; and no MS.
will be returned unless stamps accompany.
D.T.W.: No resting-place for “Tired Feet.”
M.C.D.: Swaggie who murmurs with dying
breath that he’s the Prince of Whatsit. Out!
J.J.K.: “Drag Net” just dragged on and
on and caught nothing L.M.: You should
see print before long... .P.S.F.: “Jones’s
Wonder Engine” coughed fitfully and petered
out.... F. WJ.: “There’s no smoke without
a fire”—but there’s not even a wisp of smoke
to that yarn E.D.Y.: “Writing is a gift.”
Yes, but you don’t seem to have it R.W.B.:
After reading that batch we had to knock off
for the day F.M.D.: An old yarn poorly
done K.H.D.: “Do you think I’ll ever make
a writer?” Doubtful... .M.R.W.: As welcome
as a wet Sunday W.F.C.: Cut it in half and
try a daily W.N.: Nearly made the grade,
but flopped at the finish P.B.: “Conceptions
of Eternity” were a little beyond us....R.D.:
“Behind the Wardrobe” had best been left
there J.P.S.: You run around in circles and
finish where you started V.O’C.: No, your
previous effort was more promising... .A.L.D.:
It didn’t even leave the post... .T.Q.F.: “Are
6000 words too many for a yarn of this type?”
Yes, 6000 too many B.A.H.: Our office-
boy can spin a better yarn J.A.D.: Beller-
drammer... .C.L.C.: “C.O.D.” was consigned
to the w.p.b N.J.H.: We started that bunch
of cattle on the homeward track... .S.W.S.:
“Your Way Is My Way.” We think not....
H.McK.: If you will write historical yarns, put
your characters in their correct periods....
AJ.: As interesting as an old ladies’ tea party,
. ...G.A.S.: Yes, it was a good mystery; no
one here could solve it L.S.A.: You still
have a long way to go S.M.: We lost
interest in that one just after the Boer War.
....P.W.R.: You must have dug that little
yarn out of the Bible J.M.: The lottery'
winner very rarely has a story worth the tell-
ing R.R.: It went well for a time, but the
ending is much too tame... .N.E.R.:
“ ‘Shucks,’ said Bud. ‘You guys sure is a lot
of hot palookas.’ ” We bring out only the
one edition —in English... .P.L.: Still searching
for the point F.A.S.: Drivel GJ.R.:
You’re not getting any nearer S.P.F.: Why
not try something a little less gloomy? ... .D.S.:
Scarcely raised a grin M.M.: “Burning
Passion”—set on a desert island —couldn’t have
been meant for us, surely B.G.: Con Drew’s
cornered the market for that sort of thing
C.D.: Not for us “the plaintive sounding note
of the curlew’s call,” nor yet “the raucous
bellow of a bull”....W.G.H.: Nothing new
in that batch... .T.T.B.: Just another border-
liner N.C.: Cut by half, it might creep into
a corner J.K.: Send that lyric to the lady.
L.P.W.: Murders, of that type anyway,
are off T.R.G.: Dull.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
E.P.: Gags must be new. Those aren’t....
C.F.U.: Silhouettes are no good to us....
C.S.M.: Suppose the two figures so labelled
are Kisch and Mrs. Freer, but who are the
others, and what’s it all about? L.F.; Ordi-
nary student’s work; try us later—a lot later.
R.N.G.: That drunk isn’t still trying to
find the keyhole, is he? G.S.: Why make
your wash so muddy?... .N.O’B.: The signa-
ture’s very well done E.R.M.: We don’t
believe the women really look like that where
you live... .H.D.H.: Souter did make a cat
out of a blot of ink, but we can’t let you
reverse the process J.McN.: Those He-She
gags were out of date a generation ag0....
O.B.: That wheeze has grown whiskers....
J.8.K.: Too scratchy a line J.E.M.: If you
must send us caricatures, see they’re of people
of some importance H.C.W.: But the elec-
tion is 0ver....C.K.P.: You’re improving; but
very slowly J.S.E.: Miniature pencil sketches
aren’t a scrap of good H.O’L.: Horrible,
and the hairs that had fallen out of the brush
didn’t improve things H.G.L.: You’ve no
idea of perspective C.S.: No place for
colored posters... .J.McP.: It’s an old Bulle-
tin gag.... J.M.K.: Afraid there’s no hope.
Two Westralian gold-seekers, Wisbey
and Norton, have got a jewel at Duns-
ville, 40 miles north of Coolgardie, and
near the once-spectacular Wealth of
Nations. Eight months ago they struck
a 12in. by 4in. pipe-leader, oblong in
shape, just below the surface. They
have shared £12,000 since.
A MIXED GRILL.
“Jenny Jinsling”: A genteel system
of commercial advertising is developing
in smart tearooms where the modern
soothsayer practises her art. Recently
one of them concluded her teacup session
with me by predicting “You will be
lucky in lotteries, and, strange to say,
you happen to be seated in the Lucky
Chair. Everyone who has sat in that
chair and afterwards gone direct to
Lucky Larry’s Lottery Lounge has won
a substantial prize.” I hadn’t time to
call at Lucky Larry’s until a day later;
I suppose it was the delay that made my
ticket a dud.
$ $ f f
“Alpha”: “Oxmead’s” theory that
homo sapiens may die out through ex-
cessive birth control (B. 15/9/’37) merits
serious consideration, but I won’t have
it that a hypothetical species of homo
sapientior “may make its way upward
from the more intelligent apes.” The
present human species evolved, not from
any existing ape family, but from
a more generalised, form of animal,
which was the common ancestor of both,
Further, there is a key-point in evolu-
tionary doctrine to surmount. General-
ised types may evolve into anything
within reason, but once evolved they be-
come specialised and possess very little
power of self-modification. For example,
the ancestral mammal, the Cape Hyrax,
possessed four legs which altered in its
descendants to such widely-separated
variants as the giraffe and the dachshund,
but these will never be able to vary their
limb characteristics outside very circum-
scribed limits. Should homo sapiens
disappear, he will join homo neander-
tkalis and other extinct species of man.
Whatever our successors may be in such
a contingency, they will not be man,
monkey or crossbred.
, -
* * * *
“E.V.”: I am interested in the series
of radio dramas entitled “Labor Marches
On,” written by Mr. Lloyd Ross, secre-
tary of the Australian Railwaymen’s
Union and beefed out from 2KY. A
recent effort was about an “anarchist”
named Villa, who won merit and a
glorious death gun-running for the com-
rades of Madrid. There were pretty little
vignettes of maimed and dying girls and
of gallant international heroes dripping
with blood shed by the Fascists. As the
went on, it stressed the sufferings
°f the Madrid garrison, which, it became
clear, could not have survived ten
minutes had it not been for the renewed
offensive power made available to it by
the hero. The dialogue developed into
an appeal for help. As a finale, one of
the few comrades left intact—though
even those who are not intact seem to
b ave been hit in the tongue or larynx—
shouted:—•
tf only the workers of the world would
see that vve get guns and bullets and muni-
tions. Will you send that help?
And at Melbourne Cup time! I’m not
going to be the mug.


h
Reputed for
their comfort
and wear ...
The “Bruce”
Riding Trousers
For hard work or long days in the saddle, the
“Bruce” Riding Trousers really hold pride of
place. They’re so comfortable, serviceable' and
smartly made.
Available ready for use, the material is of a super-
grade Wool Saddle Twist, and is obtainable in
shades of Fawn or Grey.
Pair, 29/6. Two Pairs, 56/6.
Riding Breeches 10/- extra on these prices.
PIKE BROTHERS
LIMITED
In Queen Street ------ Brisbane
And at Toowoomba, Townsville and Roma.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
Here it is/
cf l9*l!
COMPLETE SET
BRITISH MADE
I/.
wb
m
&
&
8to
©
$
WITH
2 BLADES
mi SAFETY
luilliill razor
IN DE LUXE BAKELITE CASE'
(Choice of 5 attractive colours)
WHATEVER you pay you can't obtain a more
efficient, convenient or durable razor than the
world famous Gem.
Here is your opportunity to prove that the Gem
gives you a smooth, close, and comfortable shave.
Get your Gem Razor Set today. Remember it costs
only I/- at all Stores, Chemists, and Tobacconists.
GEM. for Jirfeet Shaves
Sam Langfor and Sam McVea
When the first film of Joe Louis in
action reached Australia —his antagon-
ist was the clumsy Baer — a Bulletin
man wrote that Louis was far from being
another Jack Johnson, and looked in-
ferior to Sam Langford and Sam McVea.
Naturally the Louis-Schmeling and Louis-
Farr fight pictures have not shaken the
writer’s faith in his judgment.
Australians saw Langford and McVea
at their best. They arrived at Sydney in
the latter half of 1911 under engagement
to Hugh D. Mclntosh, who was having
his second innings as a boxing promoter,
and who would have laughed merrily at
the idea that he would one day give up
the arranging of man-mauling exhibitions
for the retailing of milk.
McVea landed first, and got his hand
in for Langford by outpointing Tommy
Burns’s wild protege Jack Lester, and
by knocking out Bill Lang in the second
round. “Poor old Bill!” a regretful ad-
mirer wrote. “Five minutes after he
climbed into the ring he was being
dragged out of it, like the Christmas duck
retiring from the axe-block in the back-
yard.”
Langford and McVea had boxed a 20-
round draw at Paris. Their first Syd-
ney mill took place at the Stadium on
Boxing Day, 1911, in the presence of
20,000 hot and dusty people—far more
than the staggered Government tram-
way service felt qualified to cope with.
There was the usual gathering of sup-
porters at the corners of the ring: bottle-
holders, fanners, men with blocks of ice
for application to necks, gentlemen who
poured water over the principals, givers
of good advice and bestowers of moral
support. The audience applauded a little
when some ladies appeared. Mrs. Jack
London had made Sydney history by
appearing at the ringside when Johnson
fought Burns, but her example had been
followed by only a few daring members
of her sex.
Langford sported a remarkable dress-
ing-gown. McVea turned up in an amaz-
ing garment of similar description, ac-
companied by a red and blue umbrella
of heroic dimensions. The referee,
“Snowy” Baker, took off his hat and pre-
pared to pursue his profession bare-
headed. He changed his mind and re-
sumed his hat.
In appearance the two colored men
were unevenly matched. Langford
looked small by comparison, and his
hair was cut so short that he had prac-
tically none. McVea was much bigger,
and had a mat of wool on his cranium.
He had the longer reach and the greater
weight, and he had twice as much hair
on his legs as his rival. His extremities
were like masts and his chest suggested
the side of a quarry.
Langford wore an affable countenance
which looked as if it might, if necessary,
do service in nigger minstrelsy. The
other man looked on the world with a
warlike expression. His chin stuck out
like a cow-catcher.
The men waged a strenuous and skilful
combat for 20 rounds. Langford had a
deadly punch which would have settled
the question if it had been at the end of
a longer arm. McVea had a wallop like
an astronomical telescope for length, but
there wasn’t a heavy enough missile at
the end of it. He could knock out men
less tough than his sawn-off brother-
fellows like Lang and Pelkey—but not
Langford.
The smaller Sam did most of the hard
work. He had the courage of a long
line of bulldogs, and his one great desire
was to get at his enemy. McVea kept
on the defensive most of the time, and
over and over again the swiftness of his
long hairy legs got him out of a corner
which had looked a very awkward corner
indeed.
It was Langford’s ambition to smite
the vast area of his antagonist in any
lawful part, and when they clinched the
busy little boxer biffed the foe on the
back to save time. There was so much
back to biff that he hadn’t a chance to
hit all of it twice before the gong
sounded for the last time.
During the fifst half of the engage-
ment the scoring was about equal. Then
Langford bogged in, hoping to finish it.
He put in three rounds of extraordinary
pluck and effort; but it was generally a
retreating wall that he struck.
McVea aimed chiefly at Langford’s
face. His left was accurate as well as per-
sistent, and in the seventeenth round he
closed the other Sam’s right eye.
After that McVea went for the left
eye. Tired, and with his judgment of
distance at fault, Langford could not
thoroughly protect it, and by the end of
'the nineteenth round it was closing
rapidly. In the twentieth round, all that
the nearly-blind black could do was to
hang on somehow and hope for a win on
points.
It was a triangular argument, for
Baker was fighting both negroes a. great
part of the morning. They clinched often
in every round, and were mostly heed-
less of “Snowy’s” adjurations. So that
athlete had to rush to the spot in his
greenish trousers and untidy felt hat, and
tear the hot, slippery gladiators apart.
It was at these times that Langford used
to slap McVea so briskly on the back.
Dead-weary as he was at the end of
the twentieth round, Langford had made
so good a showing, both for skill and
courage, that when Baker put his hand
on a sweating McVea shoulder a con-
siderable section of the audience was sur-
prised and said so frankly. It said it
was sorry it hadn’t brought a dead cat
with it. Others regarded the thing as a
draw.
Langford sat heavily in his corner and
looked an exhausted and disappointed
man. McVea leaped in the air with a
bright fresh leap. Whether the expres-
sion on his face was pure joy or frank
astonishment, it was difficult to determine.
A Queer Perth Mill.
Langford and McVea had several
other encounters in this country. There
were no white opponents for either —
though Langford engaged in an exhibition
match or two with Colin Bell —and the
Australian public was interested in them,
recognising that they were first-class fight-
ing men. Also, they always put on an
attractive show. Unlike wrestlers of a
later generation, they were not adept
fakers, and, although there may have
been an honorable understanding be-
tween them before proceedings began,
they were soon stung into giving and tak-
ing punches that were not “pulled.”
In their wanderings they reached Perth,
where, after a really excellent display on
both sides, McVea turned it up in the
eleventh round. He stopped boxing and
walked to his corner, muttering some-
thing to his second, Peter Felix. Lang-
ford looked puzzled for a moment, and
then started to follow his adversary. The
referee, a novice at the business, stepped
between them, mumbled something unin-
telligible to the crowd and hurriedly left
the ring.
“What happened?” shouted excited
ringsiders to Langford, who was now sit-
ting in his corner, the other coon having
ducked through the ropes. “Dunno,
friends,” Langford replied, “except it’s
all over. Here, referee,” he yelled to that
official, now just a remote streak, “come
back and tell the people who won this
fight.” But there was no reappearance of
the referee, and the puzzled but not dis-
satisfied crowd melted out into the night.


KNOCKED TEN YEARS
OFF HIS AGE
When He Got Rid of
35 lbs. of Fat
This man found he was carrying far too
much weight. As is usually the case—with
women as well as with men—his overweight
made him appear older than his years. When
he eventually got rid of 2{ stone of fat, he
looked ten years younger. His letter tells you
how he achieved this result:
“I am 33 years of age and weighed 14 stone
10 lbs., yet my height was only 5 ft. 6 ins. I
was looking older than my age. For about
five months I kept up the ‘daily dose’ of
Kruschen and I could see each week a gradual
improvement all round. My friends, unaware
of what I was doing, noticed this alteration of
form, and in time it became quite a mystery
that I should lose some 2\ stone so perfectly.
My appearance and body form have improved
so much that I look 10 years younger. I did
not diet at all, nor did I do any special exer-
cises.”—A. A.D.
Kruschen is based on scientific principles—
it is an ideal blend of mineral salts found
in the aperient waters of European Spas re-
sorted to by the wealthy for the reduction of
excess weight.
fg
ENDURA
CONKLIN ENDURA PENS
AND PENCILS
are
Colour Combinations of
unique artistic character in the
modern modes. Smooth, easy-
writing quality. Day by day
dependability. All future re-
quirements provided by the
famous Conklin Endura uncon-
ditional and perpetual service
guarantee.
A pen for any time . . .
... a pen for all time
Imperishable beauty, unending
utility. The Gift of exquisite
propriety, Conklin Endura
Pen and Pencil Sets are avail-
able in beautiful Presentation
Cases, affording ultra-modern
distinction and style to the Set
which is bestowed as a Gift.
Pens are priced at 30/- and
40/-, with Pencils to match
25/-. Complete Sets in
Presentation Case 55/-
and 65/-.
Use Conklin Fountain Pen
Ink—the best for every
Pen—4oz. bottles in all
colours, 1/- per bottle.
From all Stationers, Jewel-
lers and Departmental
Stores.
mm.
n
B I
Who pays
them
'H.'V
fv.
f f'hL X'V'V
after
you re
yone ?
Should you die suddenly,
would your wife and family
be able to settle the numerous
monthly bills and balance tire
budget? ,
YOU CAN SECURE THEIR
FUTURE
• . . . whatever happens
Assure your life with th0
EQUITABLE
PROBATE and
GENERAL INSURANCE CO.LTD.
Head Office—37.1-373 Queen St., Brisbane.
Wingello House, Angel Place, Sydney.
Collins House, Collins Street, Melbourne.
R. V. PERKINS, General Manager.
FAIR
Visit the selling centre of 25 nations —•
the market-place, of a hundred -countries
throughout the world.
Whatever is new in merchandise and
machinery is to be found at Leipzig Fair.
If you need overseas goods you’ll get
more for your money when you buy in
this popular centre.
SPRING FAIR commences
March 6, 1938.
Comprising: General Samples, Textiles,
Office Equipment, Eurniture, Sports
Goods, Photograidiic, Engineering: and
Building: Fairs.
Information (including Travel Marks and
Aski Trading Marks) and Letters of Intro-
duction available of Lars G. Brundahl, Com-
missioner in Australia for the Leipzig Trade
Fair, Challis House, Martin Place; G.P.O.
Box 3127 P, Sydney. - ,
C. N. KEPPEL, Temple Court, 422 Collins
Street; G.P.O. Box 20245, Melbourne.
H. C. ITTERSHAGEN, Shenton Park, West
Australia.
Summer in Germany is the
Perfect on of the beautiful.
INTERNATIONAL
INDUSTRIES
GLORIOUS SOUTH AFRICA
SOUTH AFRICA is a land of
perennial sunshine and abiding charm, where
countless delights await the visitor.
Although a country of vast distances, the prin-
cipal scenic, historic and industrial districts
can be speedily reached in the utmost comfort
by the renowned South African Railways,
On your next trip to "England, travel
one way via “The Cape” and spend a
short holiday in South Africa .
BLUE FUNNEL
WHITE STAR-ABERDEEN
Joint Service to
SOUTH AFRICA & ENGLAND
For particulars apply Local Agents any capital city.
. *
v>^,
if
gt==tgti ~^ar--
==^THa,
as
Jack Simons, who stood for the Perth
Federal seat the other day, marched with
long strides into McVea’s dressing-room,
followed by other pressmen. An uglier
face than McVea’s was never set on
human shoulders, but no more beautiful
voice ever issued from blubbery lips.
LANGFORD’S short way of dealing
with opponents.
“We are correspondents for Sydney
papers,” Simons began. “Sydney papers,”
McVea repeated with obvious interest.
“You want to know why I quit, of
course. It was because I was fouled.
He hit me low —he always does.” “Shall
I open that bottle of fizz?” Felix asked.
“Not just yet, Peter,” McVea said. He
had a frugal mind.
The pressmen made their way to Lang-
ford’s dressing-room, and found that war-
rior sitting on a cupboard half the length
of the room, kicking his heels against the
side. He was dressed and was smoking
an enormous cigar. Below his right eye
was a lump almost as big as a hen’s egg.
“What round did you collect that in?”
asked a scribe, indicating the protuber-
ance. “Oh,” he said grinning, “I never
count the rounds.”
Told the gist of McVea’s charge, Lang-
ford went on sucking his cigar. After
an interval for reflection or something,
he removed it and said slowly: “That
fellow has a yaller streak as broad as a
shark’s back.”
Picturesque, but not quite just. McVea
was not lacking in courage, though his
self-confidence had no doubt been shaken
by his tremendous fights with Johnson
(he had two), Jeanette (they fought for
two hours and a half in Paris) and Lang-
ford himself.
Their Last Fight.
The two blacks had their last fight at
Sydney on Boxing Night, 1912. The
Stadium had been taken over by “Snowy”
Baker, and the fight inaugurated a most
successful period in the history of that
huge barn. As before, McVea proved
the better boxer and Langford the better
fighter.
McVea opened by trying to achieve the
closing of Langford’s right eye. Lang-
ford had in the course of the twelve-
month evolved a solid defence against
that particular wallop ; still, McVea got
it in occasionally. The effect was to
make the sawn-off one hit McVea harder,
and in that first round Langford hit very
hard. McVea looked an anxious figure
as he went to his chair.
He started the second round by pok-
ing Ris left into Langford’s angelic coun-
tenance quickly and often. Bar Mick
Dooley, McVea owned the greatest left
ever seen in an Australian ring, and in
that round it spoilt Langford’s aim and
put him out of his stride. When he got
ready to hit after the interruption, he
found the other Samuel far away and
out of reach. The bell closed a round
that was distinctly McVea’s.
The third saw some fierce rallies in
which Langford stopped something
which split his bottom lip slightly. It
wasn’t serious, but Langford seemed to
resent it; and he came up in the fourth
with the distinct intention of being un-
pleasant. The disturbance grew lively.
Langford swung a sort of half-bred
uppercut which drove McVea’s bottom
lip against his top teeth and put another
mouth on the already richly-dowered ex-
idol of Paris.
McVea spat gore by the mouthful; he
dripped blood on Langford’s hair; he
smeared it over Langford’s shoulder ; and
when he was hit in the face the foam flew
over the pressmen. He took nine seconds
on the floor, and when he got up he was
all but out. But Langford seemed to get
confused. He stood off and looked at his
man, instead of finishing him ; and when
he resumed hostilities McVea drove one
to the eye which set the Tar Baby think-
ing hard.
The fifth saw Langford down for two
seconds, the result of a slip assisted by
a slight wallop. He bounded up, and
McVea stood off and sparred for wind
and time.
The sixth found Langford still boring
in, and McVea meeting him with vicious
stabs at the right eye. McVea dripped
blood from his gashed mouth, and Lang-
ford landed lefts and rights which, had
they been of the same dynamic quality
as those of the earlier rounds, would have
sent McVea to sleep for a week. It
looked as though Langford was tiring
badly.
The seventh was mostly drip, drip, drip.
Langford became a red man. Again his
close-cropped hair was scarlet, and long
lines and smears of blood lay along his
brown skin. Langford bore in and smote
and smote, but smote without sting, and
McVea responded feebly. McVea was
done and ready for the slaughter.
The eighth was slow. Both took some
on the jaw in the rallies, and McVea
got to Langford’s body with a vicious
pair, but mostly he just smothered, and
Langford gave up hitting hard.
The ninth opened with McVea stop-
ping a stiff one on the injured mouth—
PETER FELIX,
McVea’s Trainer
and Second.
both mouths, in
fact. He responded
with feeble punches
on stomach, nose
and stomach again.
In the tenth, pasted
in the opening
clash, he staggered
about helplessly.
Tears rolled down
his cheeks; per-
spiration trickled
down his body;
blood dripped from
his awful mouth.
Langford just
pushed him about
the ring and the
audience howled
applause.
In the eleventh,
the police moved
uneasily in the
seats of the Law;
but none of the
blows given would
have dropped a
rabbit. Langford
was practising a bit
of fine art, making
the glove give a
sounding thwack
without hurting his
brother-nigger. It
was elegant, artis-
tic, accomplished ;
but it wasn’t fight-
ing.
At the opening
of the twelfth,
Langford’s con-
science drove him
to cuff McVea a
little and Mac
feebly replied.
Time was wasted in the clinching ; Lang-
ford was apparently giving his battered
brother a chance to recover.
When the thirteenth started, he made a
show of hitting his dripping rival. McVea
fell against the ropes, obviously incapable
of beating off a well-developed blowfly,
and Langford gave the beaten pug the
coup de grace. He gave it delicately,
landing neatly measured jolts on the
open jaw.
McVea sagged down. Arthur Scott,
the referee, howled the count, and at
“nine” McVea tried to rise. His trembling
legs went on strike and he slipped back
shaking his head. Out !
McVea died a few years later in the
Panama Canal zone—of kidney trouble,
it was said. Langford challenged unavail-
ingly for the championship and took on
all-comers until failing sight compelled
him to retire. He made plenty of money,
but spent it all; and when last heard of
was getting a precarious living as a shoe-
black. For a time he was quite blind,
but friendly doctors restored a measure
of vision to one eye. Those Australian
fights must have taken their toll of both
men.
No Australian who ever saw Langford
and recognised him for the splendid bit
of fighting machinery he was —utterly
fearless and, when intent on a quick de-
cision, utterly ruthless —will allow that,
had they been contemporaries, the ner-
vous-looking Louis, who drpps his jab-
bing left and leaves himself wide open,
would have lasted six rounds against the
smaller of the Black Sams.


The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
Fire, Marine and Accident insurances
effected at Lowest Current Rates
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims.
BRANCHES IN ALL STATES.
’Phone (three lines): 87361.
THOMAS A. MAGNEY, Chairman.
129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
R. A. MANZIE, General Manager.
For perfect ease and comfort, shave
with a hollow-ground Plum Razor —fully
guaranteed and kept in' order for two years,
free of charge.
Selected steel, black handle ..
Extra quality steel, xylo. handle '
Superfine steel, ivory handle
ALL POST FREE.
Guard to convert the Plum into a safety lazor,
3/0 extra. Fits f and f blades.
CRAIG & AITKEN
AUSTRALIAN WRITERS
By M. BARNARD ELDERSHAW
(2) Christina Stead.
CHRISTINA STEAD is the eldest child of David
Stead, the Sydney ichthyologist, and from the
age of ten her father took her to scientific
lectures.
Her writings make it evident that she reacted
against her scientific training as well as to it, for,
while her novels are packed with information and
technical details such as a trained mind would accumu-
late, they are in general trend the very antithesis of
scientific, dealing as they do in the fantastic, the
grotesque and the mystical.
On leaving school Christina Stead entered the
Teachers’ Training College, where, among other things,
she studied psychology.
Later she became a teacher in the State schools,
but not for long. Next she adventured to England,
where she got a job in a bank. It was after her
marriage— to a banker —that Christina Stead began
to publish her work.
Her first book, The Salzburg Tales, came out in
January, 1934, had considerable success and was hailed
as a masterpiece by several leading critics. It was
followed in quick succession by two other books.
Christina Stead writes with great zest and often
at high speed, sometimes accomplishing the amazing
feat, in creative work, of writing ten thousand words
in a day. Much of her time is spent travelling, and
she is at home in London, Paris and New York. Her
interests, beyond literature, are largely centred in social
and political movements.
Christina Stead’s very considerable gifts are at
their best in The Salzburg Tales. This collection of
fantastic stories told by pilgrims to the Mozart festival
in Salzburg and held together by a slight and purely
formal framework reminded each critic of something
different, and we find Christina Stead compared to
such diverse writers as Hans Andersen, Heine, De
Quincey, Poe, Boccaccio, Herman Melville and Emily
Bronte.
This gives some measure of her versatility, and,
indeed, the stories range from slight anecdotes like
the “Death of a Bee” to the long and ornate “Don
Juan in the Arena” ; from simple domestic reminis-
cences like “The Wunder Gottes” to that rounded
and conventional narrative “The Triskelion” ; from
the light comedy of “Guest of the Redshields” to the
black tragedy of • “The Death of Svend” ; from the
strange and involute “The Mirror” to that casual
human document “The Little Old Lady.”
The stories are drawn from a very wide field, from
Nature, from mediaeval tales and classical legends,
from Russia, Australia, the East and the North, from
this world and the next and from worlds that never
were or will be. Sometimes they have the glamor of
romance, as in that strange love story “To the
Mountain,” and almost all have the glamor of distance.
They have, too, here and there, a bite of satire.
“In Doulcemer” is a satire on artistic colonies, “The
Russian Heart” is little short of a parody of Russian
fiction, and in “The Deacon of Rottenhill” there is
a hearty little satire of police methods via the detective
thriller, a dig at professionalism such as Shaw gives
doctors in “The Doctor’s Dilemma.”
With this rich diversity there is also a link of
similarity between the Tales. All are touched with
strangeness. They are all fantasies of one kind or
another, gay or macabre, erudite or mystical. Reality
and fantasy are mingled oddly together to the en-
hancement of the fantasy.
It is as if a strange light played over the book,
changing familiar and unfamiliar objects alike into
something rich and rare. Saints, devils, grotesques and
men walk together on the same earth and are equally
at home on it, and equally credible, at the moment,
to the author. The country of the Tales is Looking
Glass country, in which anything might happen and
in which a bright distortion makes everything magical.
If the subject matter is rich and strange, so, too, is
the prose. It is weighted with imagery,, beautiful in
a sensuous way with long, linked sentences and an
imaginative bloom. Page after page it enmeshes the
reader in its magic. A fragment barely does if justice,
but here is the opening paragraph of the story “An-
tinoiis” :
Holm-oaks spring by the rich fishy gulf,
and the Medusan wave, that many a day hissed
like serpents, hangs its dissolving scarves on the
black shore. The sun in the Pompeian fuller’s
house seems yesterday to have done dyeing
Hadrian’s cloak, and the yew-trees are pens of
Pliny, hastily deserted. The naked symbol of
life starts potent from the ruin amidst irre-
pressible gardens.
If the Tales have a lack it is in characterisation.
In the first chapter the pilgrims to the festival are
described. They remain brilliant designs pinned upon
the wall; they never come to life. Here is an excerpt
from the portrait of a famous conductor:
The Viennese conductor was like a tas-
selled reed, with shoulders and hands spreading
outwards, delicate hips and a soft long feline
stride; he sometimes took shorter steps and
sometimes longer as if to show that in him the
passion of rhythm was constant but tidal. He
looked this way and that as he bowed obsequi-
ously over his companion’s conversation, smiling
to himself on the side, as if he had a tiding
of joy in his sleeve, and gathering in the ladies
glances; it might have been harvest-time and
he a reaping hook. Bowing with long bright
looks of adulation he acknowledged the dis-
consciously rich and theatrical to the archbishop,
CHRISTINA STEAD.
consciously rich and theatrical to the archbishop,
for whom he did not give a fig. He took the
hand of an aged prima donna and looked as if
he would faint from excessive admiration ; and
then he walked on indifferently, dropping all
this behind him like a dolphin in the waves,
going on from easy conquest to easy conquest,
speaking of violins and sunshine, of Max Rein-
hardt and overtones, of Mozart and Apollo,
easily, wittily, with everything said in reverse
in order to amuse
This is a simulacrum, not a man. Little attempt
is made to tell the stories in character or even to allot
them suitably, nor do the Tales themselves deal in
character delineation. This is scarcely a defect. The
lack is not noticed in the luxuriance of the book. The
intrusion of natural and developing human beings
upon its brilliant artificiality might well have had a
disintegrating effect. • :
With her second book, Seven Poor Men of
Sydney, Christina Stead stepped out of the inner
circle of her ability. It has substance ; it is interest-
ing, often stimulating ; it contains much brilliant
writing ; but as; a work of art it has many open defects.
- s The richness and strangeness that please in The
Salzburg Tales are not suited to this novel of con-
temporary life. There is a conflict between style and
theme in which the style defeats the theme. The
absence of vital characterisation, too, is serious. The
dramatis personae are brilliantly stated, their charac-
teristics are enumerated, but they do not come alive
or develop.
The flashes of gaiety and satiric wit that enliven
the Tales are absent. It is a most sombre book.
It is the loosely-woven record of the lives of seven
poor men, six of whom are hopelessly defeated by
life: Michael Baguenault, a post-war misfit who
eventually commits suicide; his cousin Joseph, un-
healthy and unhappy, who sinks into unemployment;
a cripple ; a Communist librarian with chest trouble ;
a bankrupt printer ; a seedy crook ; and, sole spiritual
survivor, a Jewish printer who leaves the country at
the end of the book.
To these are added a galaxy of minor characters,
chief among whom is Michael’s sister Catherine, more
tormented and complex than he.
The book is a protest and a parable. It is obvi-
ously sincere and develops at times a sombre force.
The scene, which is laid in Sydney, is familiar
and yet unfamiliar. It is still Looking Glass country.
Familiar scenes are shown from a new angle, reveal-
ing curious proportions. The background is
heightened, enriched from imagination, stylised, in-
terpenetrated by strange light.
Her picture of Australia as a whole, too, is far
from homely:
( Blount stirred himself and said “Why are
we here? Nothing l floats down here, this far
south, but is worn out with wind, tempest and
weather; all is flotsam and jetsam. They leave
their rags and tatters here ; why do we have
to be dressed? The sun is hot enough; why
can’t we run naked in our own country, on our
own land, to work out our own destiny? Eat-
ing these regurgitated ideas from the old country
makes us sick and die of sickness. Are we
vultures to eat the corpses come down here to
bleach their bones in the antipodes? This land
1 was last discovered: Why? A ghost land, a
continent of mystery: the very pole discon-
certed the magnetic needle so that ships went
astray, ice and fog and storm bound the seas,
a horrid destiny in the Abrolhos, in the Philip-
pines, in the Tasman seas, in the Southern
Ocean, all protected the malign and bitter
genius of this waste land. Its heart is made of
salt: it suddenly oozes from its burning pores
gold which will destroy men in greed, but not
water to give them drink. Jealous land!
Ravishers overbold! And lost legion! Our
land should never have been won.”
The only constructive idea that can be found in
this is that Australia cannot import her culture; it
must be raised up out of the peculiar soil.
The third book, The Beauties and Furies— part,
it is understood, of a trilogy—has no connection with
Australia and offers less scope to Christina Stead’s
literary gifts than either of its predecessors.
The story is of Elvira Western, who leaves her
husband, ostensibly for her lover, Oliver Fenton, a
student in Paris, but really in search of a more vivid
existence than childless marriage with a solid and
moderately successful doctor gives her. This experi-
ment —for such the husband allows it to remain—is
not a success. Elvira cannot find in Oliver or in Paris
the qualities that are not in herself. In the end she
returns to her husband, and Oliver, after an unsuccess-
ful and tantalising affair with Coromandel, the
daughter of an antique dealer, drifts back to where he
was at the beginning.
There is a feeling that this episode can repeat
itself indefinitely. The book has no discernible social
purpose such as gave stature to Seven Poor Men of
Sydney. Its interest is mainly in its minor characters:
Marpurgo, a cosmopolitan with a mind twisted to the
point of perversity, who fills the time-honored role of
spectator and chorus ; the enigmatic Coromandel in
her curious and historied setting; Blanche, a prosti-
tute ; partners in a lace firm, and others.
The book is certainly sophisticated and often
baffling. The prose, as rich as ever, is sometimes over-
ripe—or that is the impression that such sentences
as this leave on the mind.
Her words came dripping rarely, white and
sweet, like sugarcane shreds, from her sensually
swollen lips.
A new book from Christina Stead should be
more than ordinarily interesting, as it may show the
solidification and final tendency of a talent which has
hitherto been in flux. 1 >
Publications: The Salzburg Tales (1934), Seven Poor
Men of Sydney (1935), The Beauties and Furies (1936).


Iks masterpiece is
the spirit he always serves .
'i R
m
at
X^S=^£E
■Pf
BHI SltnP
pL tt-==T *•:::; j?s|g3
A E
W'■■■'>&%s* Se
W •. vi*. i, i'M iv
= - ••
» 'nP|a TS mw r
%«.? \M’.?r
w mji fw J
md'f
w
5^
W'
UTll
:-vr
%
lljs^iAt(ttlAnuiuninnjl9mirewmirMOi>»>>h<<im>»>uiw
Q) c GxUum’s
*
Jj|r
(IFCallums
Scots (Übisly
( rov-*t# ‘Nlj •»•••»•■
DISTRIBUTORS FOR THE HOUSE OF McCALLUiVi:
GOLDSBROUGH, MORT & CO., LTD., Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane. GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Adelaide.
LIONEL SAMPSON & SON, Fremantle. MACFARLANE BROS. & CO., Hobart.
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK'S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
"I
TO ‘THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
❖O , kG G ’
c>
<r $'
V
&r
*?
*<*
*< *
rtV
•o
s
o°'
?-«
V
*<>:
a \°
sfo)
c°-4/'~+f
><&
<»'
***%€€<£
'■* ■* *€/>$P .«
\\ 6 »\'
s e .(^
\\
\vV
.#■
vs $
.**’
*& P 6 J^
$e 0
otf v°


a Thanks!
I can’t resist a
du Maurier! 2
The best cigarette of the
day the first one after
breakfast! Have one?”
CC Thanks ! And it s a du
Mauner—the best cigarette
of all! I simply cant
resist them”
m
IS
£
Vi
m
m
*
m
wm.
y-
.l :
■9
/
They certainly taste astonishingly
cool and clean—and far richer. If s
the special tip 9 you know. ”
Know! 1 should think Ido know!
That’s one reason why I like them j
they’re so easy on the throat.
<s=
i
m
m
mk
* \
Simply by filtering good Virginia
smoke du Maurier have made
the world’s finest tobacco taste
immeasurably better! Softer and
cooler, yet more deeply flavoured
than you’ve ever known before.
duMAURIER
THE EXCLUSIVE FILTER TIP CIGARETTES
20 for I^6
Also obtainable: 10 for 96, 50 for 3 ; 9, 100 for Vb
Agents for New South Wales and Queensland; St. James Tobacco Distributors, Ltd., 185 Clarence St., Sydney.
ISSUED BY THE MANUFACTURERS OF DU MAURIER CIGARETTES, 2IJ PICCADILLY, LONDON, W.I.
G.C. 25
