

: v
m
mi
■
m
*
-
S&
I
vm
m
* 4 m
V_>
:
.
Wi
o
8*
I
Mti 4 * >
• P"'
, 'V ' s '?
m
m
\ - *
I
•:>
•;, f ;
m
* * i ■* 4
- *' s V V>
SoWvK&Sa&Sfcs?
v-r
.
as
# #
. X ’•
£
w. •?
w
m
H
*•>•• *
• < •
‘ 1 \
#1?
5
B
s
iil
No matter what your financial or
investment problems, Hamiltons’
expert staff is at your service.
Enquiries regarding the possibili-
ties of stocks and shares which
you are holding, or contemplate
purchasing, will be promptly
answered.
Let Hamiltons (Australasia) Ltd.
advise you; enquiries place you
under no obligation.
SHamiltons (Australasia) Hiniitcd
Investment Brokers and Financial Advisers. Authorised Capital: £250,000.
Head Office: KEMBLA BUILDING, MARGARET STREET, SYDNEY.
’Phones: 8W1146 and 1147. (G.P.O. Box 375255.)
Branch Offices: Commercial Bank Chambers, Beardy Street, Armidale, N.S.W.—’Phone, Armidale 150; Box No.
123 Armidale, Union Bank Chambers, 21 Bolton Street, Newcastle—’Phone, Newcastle 1942.
VICTORIA:
Metropolitan Building,
89-9! Queen Street,
Melbourne.
G.P.O. Box 520 J.
QUEENSLAND:
Bth Floor,
A.M.P. Chambers,
Edward Street,
Brisbane.
G.P.O. Box 101 7N.
Bank of N.S.W. Chambers,
Flinders Street,
Townsville.
G.P.O. Box 280.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
C.M.L. Building,
King William Street,
Adelaide.
G.P.O. Box 6 5 OF.
sdfsd
The Bulletin
VoL 58. —No. 2996,
Wednesday, July 14, 1937.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


-* ■_ • < \- v.- x, /- : ;
DYMOCK’S NEW LIBRARY
CATALOGUE FOR 1937
is now ready and will be forwarded post free
With terms and particulars on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
“The Block,”
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
Learn
at HOME
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL*
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write lor Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
M>) Name
M V A ddress
S. H. Prior Memorial Prize
Fourth Competition Closes June 6, 1938.
Full particulars of this annual literary award will be published
here from time to time, or may be had on application to The
Bulletin, 252 George-street, Sydney.
For this current competition only novels are eligible, and the
Prize will be awarded to that which is considered the most
outstanding contribution to Australian literature.
The trustees will publish the successful work in book form,
and in serial form any they may deem worthy. If published as a
serial the winner will be paid for at serial rates in addition to the
prize-money. Any others used as serials will also be paid for at
serial rates.
Any bona fide Australian resident or any person born in
Australia, New Zealand or British South Pacific islands will be
eligible to enter for the competition works which must be the
original work of the entrants, and previously unpublished, either
wholly or in part, in book or serial form. Manuscripts must be
submitted under a nom de plume, and the true name and address
of the author must accompany each entry in a sealed envelope,
which will not be opened until the judges have made their decision.
The trustees reserve the right to withhold the Prize if no work
submitted is, in the opinion of the judges, worthy of- an award.
If this should occur in any year, the amount of the Prize will be
added to the following year’s Prize.
The Red Page
BLUM ON MARRIAGE.
Some years ago an American Judge, having
reviewed the evidence of hundreds of cases of marital
disharmony, devised a plan for the reformation of
the matrimonial laws which he put forward under the
designation of “companionate marriage.” His view
was that, to avert the misery of couples who found
themselves mismated after having entered into a con-
tract that bound them for life, a form of trial marriage
should be officially recognised that could be confirmed
or dissolved at the will of the parties concerned after
a period of probation.
His proposals met with a storm of indignation,
and his time thereafter was more considerably engaged
in defending his views than in his duties as a Judge,
from which he eventually resigned.
Objectors mainly contended that in no circum-
stances could the thousands of unconventional unions
entered into by those who sought a plan of living for
themselves be given any form of public sanction, while
the comparative convenience of the divorce courts,
especially in the United States, provided adequate
facilities for the dissolution of uncongenial partner-
ships.
Judge Lindsay’s views were by no means original.
Twenty years before he propounded his theories, a
lawyer and litterateur who was subsequently to
become a Premier of France had expounded in a
book entitled Du manage even more radical opinions
which involved no alteration of the existing law. The
book provided the sensation of the hour and was
then forgotten, only to be revived when the author,
Leon Blum, achieved the eminence of the Premier-
ship, and then it was resurrected to be used as a
weapon by his political enemies.
It says much for the franker Continental attitude
on matters such as this that the criticism had no
adverse effect upon his political career; he gained
and retained the second-highest office in the gift of
France, and held it with distinction until an adverse
vote on other issues, within the past few weeks, put
an end to it.
Was Mr. Blum abashed? Did he seek to excuse
himself for the indiscreet publication of an immature
opinion? On the contrary, he authorised the publi-
cation of a translation in English so that it could
be circulated beyond the boundaries of his own
country ; and it cannot be said that he did this for
money or notoriety, because he already had a suffi-
ciency of both.
His book now conies to us as Marriage, Leon
Blum, translated by W. B. Wells (Jarrolds; Moore’s
Bookshop; 125.).
His theory can be briefly stated. It is that both
men and women are by nature polygamous in their
early adult life, but become monogamous after their
polygamous instincts have been satisfied. He there-
fore advises that they should not marry until they
are ready for marriage, that is, “until craving for
change and adventure has given place, by a natural
process of evolution, to a taste for stability, unity
and sentimental repose.” This involves no legal
change ; nothing but a change in social customs.
It will be seen that even Blum’s idea is not an
original one. Apart altogether from the fact that it
is already practised by a large proportion of men
in civilised countries, and a much smaller proportion
of women, it was the established practice in Tahiti
before the advent of the missionaries. Loring Thomas,
in Isles of Eden, makes his old chief say:
This freedom of youth in love expression... .enabled
our boys and girls to know each other and to under-
stand the passions and eventually find the right one
for marriage and the rearing of fine children. And,
with this training and experience behind them, separa-
tion was almost unheard of. With you trial and
experimentation seems to take place after marriage.
With us it took place before. Was not that better?
But Blum does not in any case quote anthropolo-
gical evidence in endorsement of his ideas; nor is
he concerned with economics. “It is the ethical point
of view, not the social point of view, which I have
deliberately adopted.”
He sets himself in direct opposition to the
Tolstoyan idea that husband and wife should come
together in the same state of innocence. His conten-
tion is that they should come together in the same
state of knowledge.
He does not shirk the counter-proposal of easy
divorce if the parties are not satisfied—he denies that
the consent of society is necessary to make the free-
dom of choice prevail. Nor does he avoid the ques-
tion “What about the children?” ; birth-control and
the legitimation of offspring have, he maintains,
solved that problem for everybody but the child.
And yet he raises for himself the inevitable ques-
tion : —•
If I had a daughter of my own would I dare to
bring her up in accordance with these views of mine?
No question, as you may well believe, has worried
me more, and I still do not know how to answer it.
From one system of morals to another which should
logically succeed it, the process of transition is perilous
and difficult. The first adventurers who embark upon
upon it are always sacrificed
To live in defiance of convention and prejudice;
to endure without flinching the ostracism and contempt
to which such audacity exposes you; to make good use
of the brand-new liberty which you have won —all this
demands much stoutness of heart, and it also demands
much clearness of vision.
He Jets the question go by, declaring that he
cannot refrain from speaking what he believes to be
the truth. He firmly believes in marriage—he has
been married twice himself —but considers it a badly-
regulated institution which we do not turn to the
best account, pernicious when it is employed without
wisdom and imposed without discretion.
With a characteristic Gallic gesture he dedicates
the book to his wife —“it has been written by a happy
man.”
Priestley's Picture of the U.S.A.
J. B. Priestley wrote his English novel They Walk
in the City in Arizona. Back in England he remem-
bered his last night in the hut on the bank of the
Hassayampa, the notes he had accumulated, the fire
into which he threw them, the journeys he made, the
people he met, the books he had read, and he wrote
his American story in England Midnight on the
Desert (Heinemann ; Bs. 6d. net).
He calls it a chapter of autobiography, but it is
something other than that. It is not Priestley’s life
in America, but Priestley’s views of American life.
He writes as he goes, on unrelated subjects, not
as one talks, but as one thinks. Quick impressions
alternate with short essays and longer philosophising
on national and international issues, thoughtful and
thought-provoking, with an occasional descriptive pas-
sage of quality, as this one, a pen-picture of Arizona
that might have been drawn of parts of inland Aus-
tralia :
This country is geology by day and astronomy by
night. It offers a broad view of what is happening
generally in the solar system, with no particular refer-
ence to man The early mornings, in winter, are
cold, very fresh and pure The afternoons are simply
so much sunshine and aromatic air. But at sunset the
land throws up pink summits and saw-toothed ridges
! of amethyst, and there are miracles of fire in the sky.
Night uncovers two million more stars than you have
even seen before; and the planets are not points but
globes.
Or, better still, this of the Grand Canyon of the
Colorado:
We seemed to be witnessing all the mad prodigality
of nature. One stupendous effect was piled on another;
veils of mist and broken rainbows were caught in forests
hanging in mid-air ; the sunlight far below fell on
ruined red cities; and to one hand, across the Gulf, was
a vertical Egypt and to the other a perpendicular
Assyria. There was in this immensity, although the
weathers of four seasons and several climates seemed
to chase one another down there, a silence so profound
that soon all the noises from the life about us on the
rim were lost in it, as if our ears had been captured
for ever, drowned in those deeps of quiet.
But it is not of places so much as subjects that
Priestley writes, though on the train from New York
to California he sees the “apparent appearance of
poverty and ugly sketchiness of the towns” and con-
trasts the appearance of the white manager of the
dining-car, “anxious, without sap,” with the negro
waiters, “eager and vital”; the “arid, anxious” faces
of mature American women with those of the Indian
women with their “sleepy, fat smiles.”
His wide range of subjects covers the city of
New York, “so much steel and concrete and gasoline
vapor”; the underworld, “a chilly, grey, cellar-like
fungus world of greed, calculated violence and a cold
sensuality”; the strange silence of the Salton Sea ; the
mirages of Death Valley; the wonders of Arizona —•
“Sinbad might have passed this way.”
• Priestley contests the legend of the individualism
of the American. “Nearly everything he does is being
done about the same time by a million others.”
Americans do not excel in anything requiring indi-
vidual effort. The tendency is towards collectivism,
standardisation.
The nation-wide craze—for a book, a comedian, a
game, a diet —is very American; and not because Ameri-
cans have less sense and more hysteria than other people,
but because they are more anxious to be regular fellows,
to enjoy what everybody is enjoying, and not to appear
oddly different, superior, cranky, eccentric, too indi-
vidualistic.
The book flows on easily, gracefully, pleasantly,
leisurely, thoughtfully. It reads as though Priestley
wrote it slowly, with a carefree mind and plenty of
time. It lacks chapter-headings and an index—a dis-
advantage, for if you want to refer back to what the
author said about this or that you have to range
through the book. No author should force a reader
to write his own index.
Russia Debunked.
Andre Gide was invited to Moscow to make
the funeral oration on Maxim Gorki. Did he receive
this signal distinction because he was an eminent man
of letters? Possibly ; but he was an eminent Com-
munist as well, and was it too much to expect that
for the edification of the backward capitalistic coun-
tries he would use his pen to portray the marvels
achieved in a land of proletarians who had thrown
off the shackles of an ancient tyranny and were
revelling in the riches of national co-operation?
He received a royal welcome, and was taken
to see the things he was wanted to see, but it was
not possible to restrain this too-illustrious man when
he disengaged the arm of his guide and went off to
see what he wanted to see for himself. What he saw
made his heart ache with anguish. He had pro-
claimed his “love and admiration” for the U.S.S.R.,
but at his visit’s close:
When I got back to Paris, what should I say? How
should I answer the questions I foresaw? Wholesale
judgments would certainly be expected of me. How
explain that turn by turn in the U.S.S.R. I had felt
so hot and so cold? In declaring my love afresh, must
I hide my reserves and give a lying approval to every-
thing? No, I feel too deeply that in acting so I should
both injure the U.S.S.R. and the cause it stands for.
There are things more important in my eyes than
myself, more important than the U.S.S.R. These
things are humanity, its destiny and its culture.
And so he penned Back from the U.S.S.R.
(Seeker and Warburg ; 3s. 9d.), the most damning
indictment' of Russian culture yet issued, and was
promptly and furiously denounced for “treachery” by
the Moscow press.
It is a small book, of 121 pages, but this sensi-
tive and penetrating Frenchman has gone straight to
the heart of Russia and exposed it.
He had dreamed of the Soviet Union as “a land
of Utopia in process of becoming redlity.” He found
in it a ruthless suppression of all liberty.
Every time you talk to one Russian you feel as if
you were talking to them all. Not exactly that everyone
obeys a word of command; but everything is so arranged
that nobody can differ from anybody else. Remember
that this moulding of the spirit begins in earliest infancy.
... .This explains their extraordinary attitude of accept-
ance which sometimes amazes you if you are a
foreigner, and a certain capacity for happiness which
amazes you even more... .Their happiness is made up
of hope, confidence and ignorance.
Their self-satisfaction has given them a kind of
superiority complex. They honestly believe, because
they have been drilled to believe, that everything in
Russia is better than it is in any other country, that
they have nothing to learn from foreigners. Of
course, the workers in other countries are all wretched,
because they have not yet “made the revolution.”
If they are told that there are good schools and
trams and food and houses and films elsewhere, they
think they are having their legs pulled.
We were promised a proletarian dictatorship. We
were far from the mark. A dictatorship, yes, obviously;
but the dictatorship of a man, not of the united workers,
not of the Soviets.
Gide went to send a telegram to Stalin. He
was told that “you” was not enough; he had to say
“you, master of the peoples.” Stalin’s picture is in
every home. “Is it adoration, love or fear? I do
not know.” Do the Russian workers lift up their
heads? “They are more than ever bowed down.”
Even their art must be kept in line. The Russians
are so obliged to obey a word of command that they
are not even conscious of their enslavement.
In Leningrad he was asked to prepare a speech
to be addressed to writers and students. He had
been only a week in the country, and wanted to
pjtch it in the right key. He was told that it would
be most unsuitable. The speech was never delivered.
The smallest protest, the least criticism is liable
to the severest penalties, and, in fact, is immediately
stifled. And I doubt whether in any country in the \
world, even Hitler’s Germany, thought is less free, 7
more bowed down, more fearful (terrorised), more
vassalised.
It is no wonder then that Gide came to the
conclusion that “there is nothing like a stay in the
{Continued on page 8.)


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”—the Salt of Business. “THE SENIOR STORE.'
ANTHONY HORDERNS'
Use our D.P.S. freely
during the Sale. Any-
thing may be purchased
on this convenient
Deposit Purchase
System. Send a deposit
of one-fifth of the pur-
chase price, and pay the
balance in monthly in-
stalments.
HAlf
genome
r
M
BARGAINS FOR FARMERS and TRADESMEN
m
£4/18/6 "AUSTRAL" PLOUGH NOW
This sturdily built one-horse plough
weighs only 701 b. and cuts a
furrow 7in. in depth and width.
We are continually receiving good
reports of this plough from all
£49fe
over the State. Complete with clevis and land wheel.
Price £4/18/6. Sale Price £4/9/6
: i
77/6
"Beatrice
Grinding
Mill
Net weight, complete, as illustrated, 551 b. Diameter
of hand wheel, 18-Jin. Inside measurements of
hopper: Diameter 6in.; depth sJin. This Mill will
grind or granulate small dry bones, broken oyster
shells, grit, old crockery, glass and all kinds of grain.
sdfsd
2/9 "UNION" CLAW HAMMER AT
Needed on every farm and household.
1 ake advantage of this reduction.
“Union” Adze Eye Claw Hammers.
No. 1-2- x 1 6oz. Price 2/9
Sale Price 2/4
sf
14/6 ATKINS SILVER STEEL SKEW-
BACK HANDSAWS
Indispensable for numerous odd jobs
around the farm. A well-known brand,
genuinely reduced. No. 53 x 26in.
7 and 8 point. Price 14/6
Sale Price 12/6
126
6/6 IRON BLOCK PLANES
Put the finishing touch on your efforts
with one of these Marples Iron Block
Planes. Adjustable. No. 120 M, 7in.
long x 1 fin. cutters. Price .... 6/6
Sale Price 5/6
s'e
£a*o
£5/12/6 PLANET JR. HORSE HOE AT
Tire Planet Jr. No. 8 Horse Hoe
and Cultivator has a steel wheel
that does not clog; a frame that is
longer and higher than others;
steel standards that are so attached
/
as to both brace the cultivator and withstand
Price £5/12/6. Sale Price ......
strain.
£5/5/-
fisgs
£7/2/6
"BENTALL"
CHAFF CUTTER
Used by thousands of farmers. Easy.to work and
satisfactory results are always assured. The “Bentall”
Chaff Cutter has 7-Jin. mouth, cuts Jin. and Jin.
C.P.L. with three legs. Price' .......... £7/2/6
Sale Price £6/12/6
Send for Sale Catalogue
Our Sale Catalogue contains 128 pages of
bargain opportunities for keen shippers. If
you have not already received your copy, make
your request to-day. It will be sent post free.
2/3 MARPLE'S OR SORBEY'S CHISELS
One is needed on every farm for those innumer-
able obb jobs. Registered Chisels in three sizes.
Sizes, inches f If 2
Pricy each ! 2/3 4/6 5/2
Sale' Prices 1/11 3/6 4/6
1/11
sd
10 6 RATCHET BRACES NOW
Indispensable to the handyman or trades-
man. Skinner’s English Carpenters’ N.P.
Ratchet Braces.
Sizes of sweep, in. 8 10 12
Prices 10/6 11/- 11/6
Sale Prices 9/- 9/9 10/3
9-
1/. PIKE OIL STONES AT
Buy one of these useful Pike Quick Cut Oil
Stone Combinations at this saving. Measure-
ments are 4 x If x { in. Price, each, 1 /-.
Sale Price, each 9d.
9 D
fs
dfs
52/6 PLANET JR. CULTIVATOR AT
Hoes, Cultivator Teeth and Plough
are the finest of their kind made.
The Cultivator Teeth are adjust-
able in pitch and can be set to do
shallow or deep cultivating or/and
476
for marking out rows. Price . 52/6
Sale Price . . 47/6
w
29/6
HAND CORN
SHELLER
25-
Beatrice Heavy Hand Corn Sheller. Fits on to box,
tubs, etc. Solidly constructed to give years and years
of more than satisfactory wear. Make a saving on
your corn sheller by buying now. Price .. . . 29/6
Sale Price 25/-
df
6/6 BARRELING HATCHETS NOW
A good Hatchet makes work easier . .
these are strong with firmly attached
handle. Hurd’s make. No. 2. Price,
each, 6/6. Sale Price 5/-
51-
sdf
Weight
EACH HOUSEHOLD OR
GARAGE ANVILS NOW
Here’s a saving on something you need.
Anvils for those odd jobs genuinely
reduced. Weight, 71b. Price, each, 5/-.
Sale Price, each 4/3
43
2/6 IMPORTED STEEL WOOL NOW
Climax American Imported Steel Wool
in 11b. packets. Fine, No. 1 and Coarse
Grades. Buy several packets ... it is
almost half price. Packet 2/6
Sale Price, Packet 1/4
'a
• Agricultural Implements—Fourth Floor. Free Delivery City and Suburbs only.
9 Tools of Trade—Lower Ground Floor, Pitt Street. Free Delivery City and Suburbs only.
ANTHONY HORDERN AND SONS LIMITED,
’Phone: M2401, Day and Night. PITT. GEORGE AND GOULBURN STREETS, SYDNEY Postal Address: Box 2712C, G.P.O.


Comedy of Efficiency
BY GAVIN S. CASEY
ILLUSTRATED BY SUCH.
HAREHOLDERS in the Open Reef were
fortunate in that their exceptionally rich and
isolated lease was only a couple of hundred
miles from the coast. But in England, where
most of them were, that distance appears to be much
greater than it does beneath the Southern Cross. It
loomed particularly large when the project of pump-
ing water —water for treatment of the ore, and water
for the settlement of the township—up through the
ranges to the reef was placed before the directors.
The resulting debate was a long and heated one.
Certain members of the board arrived from their
suburbs after considerable study of maps and plans,
determined on no account to send good money after
bad. They found, however, that the enthusiasm of
their general manager, who had seen the reef, was
infectious. They also found their secretary armed
with facts and figures.
After listening for a while they found themselves
committed to the securing of more capital, to the
seeking of Government assistance and to the eventual
building of a water scheme which would be one of
the greatest private enterprises of its kind in the world.
Beneath their bowler hats they strode away, feeling
themselves to be Empire-builders in the truest sense
of the term. If, during ensuing months, they suffered
qualms, they knew it was too late, maintained brave
faces, and talked airily of the mighty matter to their
friends. They received attention and admiration
from the press and the public.
But their fame was as nothing to that of their
general manager, who had hastened back to Australia
with the laudable object of “getting things going.”
The g.m. was received as a hero and a national bene-
factor. The atmosphere suited him; he expanded
genially to the adulation he received as he sat in his
office day after day, surrounded by his consultants
and his subordinates, directing operations which would
alter the face of half the State.
So the great scheme progressed through many
months of labor and organisation and reorganisation.
A number of contractors made modest fortunes. A
minor scandal ended with the summary dismissal of a
couple of subordinates. But the pipe continued to
stretch towards the interior, and the g.m., who had
experienced some uneasy moments over the incident,
managed eventually to use it to convince his employers
even more completely that he was “the right man in
the right place.”
Settlements along the proposed pipeline
squabbled, and were bitter toward each other in
bringing forward their rival claims to be sites of the
various pumping stations. Districts on the route anti-
cipated substantial benefit from the company’s under-
taking to supply water for irrigation and household
needs. The g.m. was guest of honor at numerous
State Government and local-government ceremonies.
He grew stouter and smoother,
and became aware of a vague
regret that his wife was not a smarter
woman —the kind with the social sense
that is so helpful to the successful
man.
Time resolved itself into years, and
the two-hundred-mile conduit, with the
big dam at one end of it and the pheno-
menally rich Open Reef at the other,
became an accepted feature of State
maps, and was less talked about. But
Big Bill West, the g.m. of the company
and the man behind the great scheme,
remained as well known as the State
Premier. Entrenched in the country,
with vast residences at the mine and at
the coast, and a couple of big cars in
which to zoom over the dusty roads
between them, he knew achievement
and a contentment that was only slightly
ruffled when, after a quarter of a cen-
tury of big profits, the Open Reef
yield began to decline. It was not so serious, after
all. Just a matter for tightening up here and there,
and even if the Reef at some distant date petered
out altogether it would be long after his time, and
the water supply, example of foresight and clever
engineering, would remain as his monument for ever.
1 *XAMINATION of the state of affairs was, how-
' —' ever, necessary. At odd moments, and by con-
scious efforts, he found time for the distasteful task
of examining many sets of figures. Such of them as
he found of unusual interest he passed on to his
consultants and subordinates, and minor reforms fol-
lowed. Soon only in one matter —that of costs at
the company’s pumping stations —did an unsolved
mystery remain.
“Look here,” said Big Bill to Martin, the water-
supply line and plant supervisor, “Number 2 plant
at Wendinnie is giving us the results we should be
getting all along the line. See that? Less fuel, less
repairs and costs per 1000 gallons that make figures
from the other two look bad, very bad. Look into
it, will you?”
Initially, Martin “looked into it” by studying
more carefully the costs sheets for various periods.
He found them amazing. From his knowledge of the
twenty-five-year-old plants at the trio of stations he
considered that Numbers 1 and 3 were doing very
well in the matter of fuel and spares. Results from
Number 2 were really astounding. In his dusty
tourer he set out to inspect.
At Number 3, nearest the mine, the driver and
his fireman were indignant. They were nursing their
wheezy gear, and no men could do more than they
were doing. “If you think anyone can, try ’em,”
was the text of their remarks. Feeling a certain sym-
pathy, Martin drove on the fifty miles that brought
him to Wendinnie, and there interviewed McHenry,
the apparent superman in charge of the superstation.
“I bin drivin’ here for twenty-five years,” an-
nounced Mac with righteous indignation, “an’ I know
them ingines. Really know ’em an’ look after ’em —
not muck about an’ talk big, like them fellers each
side. ’Tain’t goin’ t’ worry me how them wood-
choppers gits on. I’m givin’ you th’ figures, an’ I can
keep on doin’ it.”
Noiseless rods, plunging with smooth efficiency
up and down their appointed paths, spotless polished
brass, a stainless floor and an entirely satisfactory
flow of water into the big concrete tank bore him out.
Martin left, more than ever mystified.
Big Bill received his supervisor’s report badly.
To him it seemed, reasonably enough, that what one
set of machinery could do others precisely similar
could equal. He was not given to probing figures
deeply or he might have reached Martin’s conclusion
that Numbers 1 and 3 were doing quite well, and
that Number 2’s costs could only have been kept so
low by magic. As it was, the simple fact presented
itself that all stations should strive to be as good as
the best.
“Rubbish! Rubbish!” he assured Martin. “If
McHenry can do it the others can. Stir them up
until they do. I’ll expect to see better figures in
future.”
But no better figures were forthcoming, despite
the fact that Martin abandoned his own convictions
and “stirred up” the drivers at Stations 1 and 3,
paying more than usually frequent visits to their
plants during the following six months. They mut-
tered, and he lost sleep over the matter, but nothing
was discovered except that comparisons at the end
of the period showed that results from Number 2
were not quite as good as usual, though still superior
to those from the other pumps.
Confronted by the black scowl of Big Bill, Martin
felt the foundations of his job quaking. But he could
do nothing more. The mystery might well have
remained unsolved for ever had not the advent of a
new licensee at the Wendinnie Hotel preceded by just
a week one of the g.m.’s infrequent shooting trips.
T AKES to the north had been Big Bill’s destination
*—' and duck his quarry. In one of his big motors,
with a driver and a couple of cronies, the expedition
had been made as comfortable as money could make
it, but none the less it was after an exhausting and
unsuccessful day that he arrived at Wendinnie. The
car rolled down to the township from that unusual
direction and into the hotel yard in the late after-
noon.
The Old Man could see the big tank and smoke-
stack of the pumping station looming over the scrub
half a mile away, and contemplation of it gave him
mild pleasure. In the closer foreground, however, was
a sight less satisfactory. With pleasing and unusual
industry, the hotel yardman was chopping logs from
a big stack. Big Bill’s first instinct was toward
approval, but when he observed that the stack con-
sisted of what was obviously five-foot bush limber,
railed to the town at the company’s cost, for use at
the company’s pumping station, his eye shone less
benignly.
Irritated by the petty graft, he glanced along the
back fences of Wendinnie’s only street. In every yard
stood a high pile of logs, and in every case they were
of the roughly uniform length and size that showed
them to be company logs! He breathed heavily for
a moment, and mentally noted what should be said
to McHenry and Martin on the matter. Then the
prospect of rest and comfort restored his amiability,
and leaving the driver and his companions to attend
to the car he strode into the friendly bar to order
drinks.
He was, however, apparently fated to be annoyed.
A toe stubbed on some bulky object which was hold-
ing open the door, brought from him a flow of
anguished expletives. Then he looked at the object.
It was an L. 44 O.S. piston, as used in the engines of
the Open Reef pumping plants! It was new! Lan-
guage failed, and he made inarticulate noises, but
with a self-restraint born of many board meetings
he ordered drinks for the party and commenced to
sip his own. It was amazing that so economically run
a station as Number 2 could show such glaring
evidence of wholesale waste. But the liquor was
soothing, and he abandoned himself to calm enjoy-
ment of it until, turning to assume a more comfort-
able attitude with one elbow on the counter, he
noticed another occupant of the customers’ side of
the bar.
Stretched on a form against the wall, the Wen-
dinnie Hotel’s other patron was asleep with his mouth
open. He appeared to be as stiffly rigid as the boards
on which he lay, and the only evidence that he was
alive was the gentle swaying of his moustache in the
fiery draughts that swirled to and fro through it. He
was none other than the model pump-driver, the


faithful and flawless McHenry! Big Bill blinked
rapidly.
“Tell me,” he pleaded of the man behind the
bar in stifled tones filled with deadly menace, “tell
me. will you, who is that man? I might be mistaken.”
“Bloke from th’ pumping station,” said his host
cheerfully. “Haven’t bin here long enough t’ know
much about him meself, but I’ll chuck him out if
v’ like. They told me when I took over that he was
a ieal damn’ nuisance, alius in arguments an’ stayin’
on th’ burst for as much as a fortnight at a time.”
“Fortnight at a time!” echoed Big Bill breath-
lessly. “Do you know the fireman? Where’s the
fireman?”
“Gorn t’ th’ Lakes shootin’ fer a few days,” said
the proprietor. “Great jobs these blokes’ve got.”
“Great jobs!” said the g.m. in a sort of subdued
roar “Great jobs they had you mean.”
The whole meaning of the calamity had gradu-
ally impressed itself on the Old Man’s brain. The
plant should be running now! God alone knew how
long it had been idle! If the tank emptied the pumps
at Number 3 would draw air, and it would take days
to get the system running again. He pounced on
McHenry and shook him until he rattled.
“G’way!” muttered the engine-driver drowsily.
“G’tout! Wenni wakeup I’ll rip y’r liver out.”
“Water!” bellowed Big Bill. “Dammit, man, the
pumps! The water, you fool!”
“Warrer'll be orright,” mumbled McHenry.
“Warrer ll fin’ hish own level. Alius does.”
With an air of finality, he settled back to com-
fortable slumber. Big Bill gazed at him wordlessly.
Then he dived through the door, past his wondering
cronies and into the car. He headed for Number 2
pumping station with the accelerator on the floor-
boards, but despite his haste he noticed that the fence
around the shack next door carried sliprails made
of L.P.41 connecting-rods, and that a place ‘three
houses down was using L.J.78 cylinder-liners for an
extension for its wash-house chimney. There would
be time to kill McHenry later, however. He stamped
viciously and ineffectively on the already fully-
depressed throttle pedal.
SILENT engines and spotless metal greeted him in
the plant engine-room. What was worse, almost
cold fires. There was no steam, and it was better
that the plant should be held up than that he, the
g.m. and a national benefactor, should descend to
urging five-foot bush timber through the fire doors.
It was the last straw. The situation was hopeless.
He sat wearily on a box and clutched his head in his
hands. Then the look of anguish on his face slowly
changed to one of wonder and doubt. Either he was
going mad or he could hear, faintly but distinctly, the
sound of gushing, falling water!
Heedless of the warning of his hammering heart,
he galloped to the tank and swarmed up the ladder
to its brim, thirty feet above ground. It was three
parts full, and out of the big duct above it water was,
despite the silent engines, flowing freely!
“Well, I’ll be damned!” said the g.m.
Slowly and reflectively he drove back to the pub.
Siphonage! Siphonage! No need for a pumping
station at all! Never had been! What a bloomer!
No wonder McHenry, who had been in charge for
25 years, showed low costs! No wonder he gave
away firewood, and requisitioned for spares and gave
them away too! He’d had to, to have any costs
at all.
Big Bill’s lips tightened as he anticipated the
abrupt cessation of the “good jobs” held by driver
and fireman. Then they loosened again as his thoughts
turned to what the directors and the press would say
when Pump Plant Number 2 was closed as superflu-
ous, after 25 years in action!
His memory roved, trying to locate the con-
sultant or subordinate of early times who could be
held responsible. He was distressed to find that,
particularly to directors and the press, it would most
likely seem that he was responsible!
The point of view gave him further food for
thought.
At the hotel Big Bill’s cronies were in the yard,
curiously awaiting his return. In the bar McHenry’s
slumber remained profound, and the new proprietor
was cleaning glasses and regarding his supine torm
with considerable interest.
“Heard a crack and thought something had come
apart at the plant. All O.K. up there, though,” the
g.m. explained his absence to his friends.
There was something not quite satisfactory about
it, but they had little time in which to think it over,
for Big Bill was in a fever of activity. He’d made
up his mind to drive on to Goalong for the night.
The hotel there was better. It was a better town.
They would have to hurry if they were to be there
for dinner. He barked orders at the driver, piled
them into the car. and before they knew just what
had happened they were on their way. Big Bill was
eloquent in the discussion of plans for more shooting
next day.
SO McHenry and his fireman continued to draw
award rates. They started the engines only when
’phone messages from the towns on either side were
to the effect that official parties were on the way, or
when a general stoppage made it necessary. The
inhabitants of Wendinnie went on receiving free fire-
wood, and in spite of it costs at the station were
substantially lower than those at Numbers 1 and 3.
Martin did not know why, and stopped worrying,
as the Old Man no longer plagued him about it.
But McHenry, after some discussion with the new
proprietor of the hotel, felt that he need no longer
be quite so careful, and when the
g.m. was a member of a visiting
official party (which was seldom) he
treated Big Bill with a little less
respect than that worthy thought was
due to a National Benefactor and
Empire-builder.
He pounced on McHenry and
shook him till he rattled.
From the Foam
Still and silver the sky, so silver and still,
As, calm as rise of moon upon the cliff,
The waterfalls of evening gleam and spill,
It mirrors the floes of snow, the foamy hush
A nd crying of steel where on the secret reef
Like cataracts of clouds the white waves rush.
Sheer between dusk and daylight rears this
rock,
Sheer between dusk unbroken in the bay
And this white acre of ecstasy and shock ;
And sheer between dark and waves that crash
and chime
This hour arises, towers this proud To-day
Mirrored on mind and islanded in time.
Before me lies the sea, behind, the earth
Where in cold woods the spring flames up
in white,
And, oh! this fume of surf awaits a birth,
When shining from patterned foam and deep
steel cave,
Whiter than wings, with limbs of fire and
light,
My own annunciation breaks the wave.
Now over the silver terraces of foam,
Certain as lightning from the soft white
thunder,
My goddess must burn her creamy radiance
home
To this my soul that mirrors the wild swells.
To this my body taken and broken by wonder,
Broken and torn to a storm of silver bells.
MAORI LAND.
DOUCLAS STEWART.


A Brief Sketch
SHOW DAY
By MARGARET TRIST
DAN THOMPSON dressed carefully,
making sure that his dark tie hung
straight down the front of his cream
silk shirt and that the laces of his
square-toed, shiny black boots were tucked out of sight.
Then he flicked a speck from the sleeve of his grey
coat and ran his fingers down the creases of his trousers.
Watching himself in the mirror, he put on his new
hat. It was called his new hat to distinguish it from
the one he wore about the paddocks; besides, he had
not worn it more than ten times.
Ordinarily, Dan did not believe in dressing up.
His second-best suit and hat did for odd visits to
town and collecting the mail, but when it came to
show day—well, it wasn’t so much for your own
benefit that you got yourself up like a toff, but the
wife and kids appreciated it. Dan smiled at his
reflection in the mirror, and moved stiffly out to the
verandah.
It was yet quite early— not nearly seven o’clock.
Mrs. Thompson was struggling with her corsets in
the bathroom, and Miss Wyatt, the lady help, was
dressing the younger children in the back bedroom.
She was a fretful creature, and her thin voice came
clearly on the frosty air. “Stand still, Mildred, you
bad girl!” “How dare you, Brian! Get into your
pants at once.” “Leave your hair alone, Priscilla.”
Dan blew his nose on his clean white hanky and
went down the steps towards the car shed. The
engine of the car was cold, and after stamping exas-
peratedly on the self-starter Dan had to get down
and turn the crank, and then it was a quarter of an
hour before a faint whirr in the engine rewarded him.
He drove round to the front of the house and
tooted the horn. There was no answer save a vague
echo from down the reserve, and he fancied he heard
a faint clatter of crockery from the kitchen. Those
darned women, at their tea again. Breakfast had
been at five, a good solid breakfast. He stopped the
engine and clambered out, and went and walked up
and down outside the kitchen with his watch in his
hand, shouting for someone to go and open the far
gate. Miss Wyatt brought him a cup of tea and
stood with hands clasped and a smirk on her face
while he drank it. Jim, the eldest boy, a stout, over-
grown lad in a hot navy suit, the trousers of which
reached the middle of his knees, and a round-topped
felt hat pulled well down over his ears, rushed off
towards the gate, and the house resounded to the
closing of windows and banging of doors.
“They’ll knock it down if they’re not careful,”
muttered Dan, and drained his cup with a backward
, throwing of his head and a quick movement of his
Adam’s apple.
'T' HE next thing was to get everyone into the car,
* which was hard put to accommodate eight
children and three grown-ups. But what had been
done before could be done again, and they were
finally settled. It was then found that the engine
had gone cold again, and after fruitless efforts with
the self-starter Dan got out to crank.
In the direction of the town a low haze of dust
hung, and when they joined the main road there were
three cars in front of them and several in the distance
behind them.
“If we’d left earlier,” muttered Dan, “we’d have
avoided all this traffic.”
It was ten o’clock by the time they reached town.
Dan’s driving was careful and unexciting. When he
fancied that something was amiss with one of his
tyres he stopped the car, got out and walked round
it several times, while Miss Wyatt and Mrs. Thomp-
son leaned perilously over the side and made sugges-
tions. At other times he stopped to let the engine
cool, another man’s uninsured car having gone up
in smoke on this very road five years back.
Once in the town they took the road that led
over the bridge, turned the corner of the Great
Western Hotel, went out past the saleyards and finally
came to the Showground. The Showground had an
unimpressive wire-netting fence round it, and over
the big entrance flapped a sign with large red-and-
blue letters printed on a white ground:
PASTORAL AND AGRICULTURAL, FORTY-
THIRD ANNUAL EXHIBITION ;
which wasn’t exactly true, as the other forty-two had
been known simply as shows. They stopped at the
gate while Dan paid.
They parked in a spot which in the hottest part
of the day would be shady, and which gave a good
view of the show-ring.
r_ T HE new pavilion, an unlovely building of shining
* corrugated-iron, was the centre of general interest,
as the judging had just been completed. As Miss
Wyatt had entered an embroidered cushion cover in
the fancywork section, and one of the children’s work
was on display in the correspondence schools’ section,
they went off towards it, though Dan looked wist-
fully at the pens of sheep and sniffed appreciatively
as they passed the pigs.
Inside the pavilion there was a grand jumble of
pumpkins, fancywork, home-made cakes, lopsided
maps of Australia, tables set for afternoon-tea, trays
prepared for invalids, ears of wheat, flowers, butter,
eggs. Dan led the way round the sawdusted floor,
pausing to admire and explain to the family any-
thing he knew or understood himself.
It was discovered that Miss Wyatt had won third
prize with her cushion cover, and she fluttered into
a tittering excitement, only to become annoyed a
few minutes later because it wasn’t second prize she
had won. Priscilla gazed wide-eyed at her copybook,
opened at the page that had six rows of “A stitch in
iime saves nine” written in her round wobbling hand.
“It’s not so bad,” said Dan, looking at it admir-
ingly.
“You did it real well.” Mrs. Thompson patted
the baby on the back and smiled at Priscilla.
“The last rows aren’t so well done as the first,”
put in Miss Wyatt. “But I must say it’s a credit to
a little girl.”
They moved on, Priscilla bursting with pride.
“I think I’ll work a doyley for the fancy-sewing
section next year,” she said importantly.
Once outside the pavilion they moved off towards
the sheep-pens, and Dan ran into his eldest brother,
whom he hadn’t seen since last show day. The baby
had to be displayed and Miss Wyatt introduced, and
then they all stood talking, with Dan leaning against
a pen, Mrs. Thompson jigging the baby and Miss
Wyatt taking her lace hanky out of the pocket of
her handbag, shaking it and replacing it carefully.
The two eldest boys went round the pens, shov-
ing their hands into the thick woolly backs of the
sheep, and the rest of the children stood stiffly star-
ing at this uninteresting uncle, who delayed them for
half an hour and then
was carried off by his
plump wife to view
Priscilla’s handwriting
and Miss Wyatt’s
cushion cover.
~F HE sheep, according
* to Dan, weren’t as
good this year as last.
With that the season
might have something
to do, but it was
very disappointing
owing to this being an
exhibition and the last
having been only a
show. The pigs, how-
ever, were in prime
condition. They
looked at the sheep-
dogs, then the bull-
dogs and the collies,
and finally the pom-
eranians and pekinese.
At these Dan sniffed
and Miss Wyatt said
“How lovely,” and
Priscilla wrote “pom-
eranian” in the dust
with her finger.
They met a great number
of people, and the children
found it very boring ; but things
brightened considerably when
they left the exhibits and came
out among the sideshows. The
canvas tents had a mysterious
look, and even Dan was curious
about the woman whose head was cut off, put in a box
and then replaced. They filed into the stuffy little
space where this marvel took place, and the children
watched in astonishment, and Miss Wyatt gave little
frightened gasps at the sight of the blood.
“All a fake,” said Dan loudly as they came out.
“You’d think we were bushwhackers the things some
of those blokes try to put over.”
At the ice-cream stall they met the butcher’s
wife, and Mrs. Thompson was dazzled for the rest
of the day by the radiance of her smile. It was quite
an honor to be recognised by the butcher’s wife.
Her husband had had access to some prime cattle
one drought, and he had been able to charge all
sorts of fancy prices for the meat, and so make a
lot of money. Besides, she always had her photograph
in the paper when she went for a holiday to the
seaside, and even though the doctor’s wife did not
recognise her she was “society.” She was so thrilled
about Priscilla’s handwriting and Miss Wyatt’s
cushion cover that Dan became embarrassed at such
a display of feeling, and dragged his hypnotised family
away.
There were stalls with feather-bedecked kewpies on
thin, curved walking-sticks, and flags and fluttering
balloons. There were places where you could buy
a brooch with your name in twisty gold lettering
upon it. There were rings and bracelets and strings
of beads, and lucky-dips wrapped up in blue, pink
and yellow paper. In one spot was a tank of blue
water, where you were supplied with a fishing line,
and if you caught three cardboard fishes before
everyone else you got a prize. With an air of lofty
disdain and a pleased smile curving his mouth, Dan
carried off a box of chocolates, and in the excitement
Miss Wyatt dropped her handbag into the tank and
it had to be fished out by the wrathful proprietor.
By that time everyone was ready for lunch, and
they moved off towards the iron building where meals
were being served, and were waited on by the elite
of the town, which robbed Mrs. Thompson of her
appetite and put an edge on Dan’s. They ate cold
ham and wilting lettuce leaves, and Miss Wyatt held
the baby and gave it odd teaspoons of tea to keep it
cool.
A FTER that there were the ring events, and they
went and sat in the car, and though it was very
crowded it suddenly seemed a haven of peace and
comfort. The two eldest boys weren’t looking for peace
and comfort. They wandered off together, and the
smaller children sat in the back seat with Miss Wyatt
and wiped their dusty boots and sticky hands upoff
her. All the hard wooden seats outside the white-
painted fence of the ring were occupied, and now
and again Mrs. Thompson picked out an old acquaint-
ance and fluttered her handkerchief in the direction.
Sometimes a friend of Dan’s came and stood by the
side of the car, with one foot on the running-board,
and talked earnestly of sheep and dogs, horses and
cows, till Miss Wyatt dropped asleep and Mrs.
Thompson yawned on to the baby’s head.
At half-past three Dan took out his watch and
shouted for the boys in a loud voice which startled
Miss Wyatt into wakefulness, but did not conjure
his offspring from the crowd and the dust and the
tumult.
“Ought to know we’re ready to go,* 1 fie
mumbled; "I’ll go and find the young devils.”
It took him two hours to track them down, and
by that time they were sitting in the car innocently
(Continued on page 7.)


waiting for him. Dan had met a friend near
the bar under the grandstand, and though he wasn’t
a drinking man he’d had a few mugs for old sake’s
sake, and finally taken the friend along to see Pris-
cilla’s handwriting and Miss Wyatt’s cushion cover.
It was chance meetings like that that made shows
worth while, reflected Dan, steering the car out of the
Showground gate and into the dusty drabness of the
town.
It was all right sticking around with the wife
and kids, but a break never did anyone any harm.
Perhaps it even did one good. He gave a quick
glance at his wife, sitting tiredly with the baby nestled
against her and Mildred’s head in her lap. He took
one of his hands off the wheel and, stretching across
the little girls, squeezed her fingers. She did not look
up, but her mouth curved into a smile.
Dan turned his attention to the wheel and the
road in front of him. “Darned traffic,” he muttered,
and recklessly trod on the accelerator. By the saleyards,
round the Great Western Hotel corner, along by the
hall where “East Lynne” was to be played that night,
over the bridge and into the open country! Here
the air was sharp with a promise of to-morrow’s
frost, and felt good and clean in the nostrils. Behind
them a low haze hung where the town was, but Dan
did not see the haze. His eyes were fixed on the
road ahead, and his mind occupied with dreams,
slow, deliberate dreams that had nothing to do with
towns or shows or silk shirts and shiny black boots.
Mrs. Parsley Strikes Trouble
Twin Souh
BY HAROLD MERCER
DRAWING BY ARIA.
U~T WIN BEDS! ” said Mrs - Parsley with a
/ snort. “I’ve no patience with such ideas.
y.v Anyway, I’m not putting them in any of
my flats. And twin souls is something I
will never have in the place again, neither.”
Mrs. Parsley had been interrupted in the “doing”
of my apartment. When she came back the argu-
ment she had had, apparently with prospective tenants
for No. 12, had started a train of thought. I knew
that it was impossible to continue my work until Mrs.
Parsley had got what she wanted to say off her chest.
“It was Mrs. Wetherby, who stayed in No. 17,
who was a twin soul,” said Mrs. Parsley. “She had left
her husband owing to incombatibility of temperature,
which meant, I thought at the time, that he had turned
cold on her, although the combat part of it seems
to me why most people live together.
“ ‘I hope you won’t mind, Mrs. Parsley,’ she said,
‘I have a gentleman visitor who will call to see me
pretty often.’
“ ‘People has a perfect right to do what they like
in their own flats, as long as it’s respectable,’ I told her.
“ ‘Mr. Pomple and I are twin souls,’ she said.
‘He is likely to be here every day.’
“ ‘Everybody has their own ideas,’ I tells her;
‘but don’t you think it would be more respectable to
let people believe you was married?’
“She was shocked. ‘I was afraid you would think
that; that is why I spoke. I have a husband, Mrs.
Parsley; and I do not forget that. I am a good
woman. My love for Mr. Pomple is on the aster
plane; there is nothing earthly in our affection.’
‘‘ I DIDN’T know much about the aster plane
* myself, but I must say that Mr. Pomple didn’t
look much like a twin soul to me. He was a podgy
little feller, and he could talk like a book ; but it
proved I was right when one night I heard a rumpus
in Number 17. When I got there Mrs. Wetherby
was very excited and crying.
“ ‘Tell this man he has to leave this building,’
she said.
“ ‘You asked me to come,’ he snarled.
“He called her a sentimental fool before he went,
and other things. The aster plane Mrs. Wetherby
talked about was no good to him. So I was left with
an undetached twin soul on my hands, so to speak. I
wasn’t sorry, because other tenants were beginning
to make sneering remarks about twin souls, and I’ve
always kept my place respectable.
“ ‘Sometimes I think men are merely beasts, Mrs.
Parsley,’ Mrs. Wetherby said to me. ‘I feel almost
inclined to go back to my husband.’
“ ‘lt’s not a bad idea sometimes,’ I said. ‘Has
he a home for you?’
“ ‘Oh, yes ; my husband’s very fond of me,’ she
says. ‘But he is so unspiritual; I had to leave him.’
“It wasn’t until she came to my sitting-room to
pay her rent one day that I realised that there might
be danger in having a spare twin soul on the premises.
Mr. Glenroy, the violinist, was there, too, explaining
why he couldn’t pay, so I introduced them.
“ ‘Ah, but we have met before,’ said Mrs.
Wetherby.
“ ‘We pass on the stairs pretty often,’ says Mr.
Glenroy.
“ ‘Sheep that pass in the night with never a word,’
said Mrs. W. with a sigh. ‘There is more than that.
I have listened to you playing your violin.’
“ ‘Just practising,’ he said.
“ ‘lt seemed to me,’ she says, ‘that there was a
note in it intended especially for the heart of a lonely
woman. I have often wondered if a little perspira-
tion has winged its way back from my own heart to
yours.
“ ‘I think,’ she said depressively, ‘our
souls have spoken to one another.’
“ ‘l’ve got to go,’ he said, looking
really frightened as he went. And he
had just cause and impediment to be
frightened, too. Not that I suppose Mr.
Glenroy would have minded being a twin
soul if he wasn’t frightened of more misunderstand-
ings with his wife than there were already. It must be
pretty hard for a man to tell a woman who says he’s
her twin soul that he isn’t; an’ it’s likely to be embar-
rassing if it’s done on landings where an auspicious
wife might pounce on them.
“Mrs. Wetherby used to sit on the stairs waiting
for Mr. Glenroy to come home. He took to coming
in by a back entrance ; but it was when he’d had
to climb in through a window to avoid her that he
complained to me. He said that he’d have to leave
unless Mrs. Wetherby let him alone.
“ ‘You’ve got to remember,’ I told her—‘don’t
mind my mentioning it —Mr. Glenroy has a wife.’
“‘Alas, yes!’ she says. ‘Too well I know it. A
woman with no soul to which his can speak ; no soul
to answer his, as mine does. I feel that his being
married makes it more necessary for me to give him
consolation —the consolation one twin soul can give
to another. I know all about my poor Henry,’ and
she smiled.
“ DUT it was no smiling matter to me. The first 1
' knew it was all over with Mr. Glenroy was
when Major Porthak came to me. He was an elderly
gentleman who occupied Number 11 ; and his main
amusement was whisky, which, as the Bible says, is
a mocker.
“ ‘Mrs. Parsley,’ he said, ‘I object to being a
twin soul. I’ve never been a twin soul to anyone yet,
and I never will be. If any old frumps think they’re
going to make anything like that of me—-I’ll tell them
off.’
“Then I knew that that Mrs. Wetherby had
become a spare again. It appeared that Mr. Glenroy,
getting over his shyness after a quarrel with his wife,
had made the same mistake as Mr. Pomple. The
quarrel may have made him drink, and you knoW the
proverb says that mistakes will occur in the best irri-
gated families.
“I didn’t like to tell poor Mrs. Wetherby to go,
seeing she paid her rent regularly and was quite
respectable ; it seemed that the best thing to do was
to introduce her to someone who might be a twin
soul without doing any harm to anybody.
“The new tenant in No. 19 looked as if he might
do ; he didn’t have much the appearance of a twin
soul; but, then, Mrs. Wetherby didn’t seem to mind
that.
“ ‘He knows that po’try you told me the other
day,’ I says, ‘the “Misunderstood” one —he loves
po’try, don’t you, Mr. Smith?’
“ ‘I feel sure you do,’ said Mrs. W. in the deep
voice she used when the twin-soul mood was stirring
’er. ‘When a man has soul you can see it in his eyes.’
“Although Mr. Smith looked embarrassed, it
seemed that that was a good start. If Mrs. Wetherby
could discover soul she could discover a twin soul, it
seemed to me. That made the other tenants safe ;
and safety first come first served is my motter.
“And then a lady came and took Number 14.
“ ‘I will have a gentleman calling to see me pretty
often ; but you will know it is all right, Mrs. Parsley,’
she said. ‘Our friendship is purely plutocratic. We
are twin souls.’
“You could have knocked me flat with a feather.
It seemed to me I was running a residential especially
for twin souls.
“It struck me as queer the way Mrs. Wetherby
took it when I told her, as of course I did.
“ ‘You should be careful, Mrs. Parsley,’ she said.
‘Are you sure those people are genuine twin souls?’
“ ‘l’m only saying what I’ve been told,’ I
re-tortoised. ‘Surely, Mrs. Wetherby, you’re not the
only genuine twin soul.’
“She just shook her head like a doubtful Thomas.
WAS as unauspicious as a new-born babe about
* what was going to foller. Troubles never come
singly, so the Bible says. That Mr. Smith seemed
to have disappeared ; and right on that came the
rumpus. It was all around Number 14, which the
new Mrs. Harvey had taken. It was Mrs. Wetherby
who was making all the noise.
“ ‘Mrs. Parsley! ’ she screamed when she saw
me, ‘are you going to allow this sort of thing to go
on in your house? Here’s my husband —my husband,
mind you—with this creature in the flat here.’
“Mr. Wetherby didn’t look much like a twin soul
to me, either ; he was bald and fat —but, there, beauty
is only skin-deep.
“ ‘My dear, you shouldn’t make this fuss,’ he
said. ‘Since you left me I met Miss—Cr —Mrs. Harvey,
and we discovered that we are twin souls.’
“ ‘You! ’ screamed Mrs. Wetherby, scornfully.
“ ‘Surely other people can be twin souls,’ I said.
“‘Not my husband! I won’t have my husband
being anyone else’s twin soul,” she said.
“It was a terrible rumpus, with all the tenants
in the other fiats interested. My giving them all
notice to go did no good. I had to leave them to go
to ring up the police.
“When I came back it was all over. And Mrs.
Wetherby had another twin soul.
“ ‘ Dear Mrs. Parsley,’ she said, ‘it was all a trick
of my husband —I didn’t know he knew where I was
living—bringing this woman here to test whether I
cared for him. A man who does a thing like that
must have some soul. I never considered before
whether my husband might not be my twin soul.’
“I’m not sure, but I think I saw Mr. Wetherby
wink at me.
“ ‘lt’s mootooal misunderstanding,’ he said. ‘l’d
have divorced my wife if I thought there was any-
thing wrong ; but when I found there wasn’t I wanted
to get her back.’
“I was so flappergasted, as they say, that I
let them go without demanding a week’s rent in 100
of notice —Mrs. Harvey, she vanished, too, folding
up her tails like the scarab, as the poet says. Yet, in
a way, in spite of the vacancies coming sudden (there
was Mr. Smith’s flat, too), I was pretty glad to be
shot of twin souls.”


U.S.S.R to help us appreciate the inappreciable
liberty of thought we still enjoy in France.”
Australian Detective Novels.
Mr. Jelly’s Business, by Arthur W. Upfield, and
The Glory Box Mystery, by G. W. Wicking (Angus
and Robertson; 6s. each), are mystery yarns that,
besides holding their own with the mill run of their
kind, give the reader the additional interest of familiar
settings.
Upfield’s murder takes place in the Westralian
wheat belt. The sleuth is the liveable half-caste,
Napoleon Bonaparte, first introduced in the same
writers Wings Above the Diamantina. The nature
of Mr. Jelly’s occupation puzzles the neighbors. All
that is known is that he is occasionally called away
from home on urgent business. The riddle is solved
—through the agency of Bonaparte—in very dramatic
circumstances by the man who killed the husband of
fair Mavis Loftus. Upfield keeps the suspense going
with fine skill, and makes good use of his familiarity
with the bush.
Wicking, on the other hand, employs a know-
ledge of the urban scene. The principal corpse—
there are two others —is discovered in a girl’s glory-
box. It is the body of the much-disliked boss of a
Melbourne furnishing house. Chief suspects are a
ship’s captain known to have been friendly with the
murdered man’s wife and a watchman believed to
have had knowledge of his suspected bigamy, but the
culprit was nearer to the detective’s elbow than either
of these. The mystery is not quite watertight to the
attentive reader, though much leakier ones have been
offered, and Detective Greenwood, like Bonaparte,
has his human side ; in addition to sorting out the
clues he finds time to pay court to a girl in the ware-
house office.
Women and the World.
The Marching Cloud, by F. H. Dorset (Cobden-
Sanderson; 7s. 6d.), and The Outward Room, by
Millen Brand (Cassell; 7s. 6d.), have related themes.
The first deals with the growth of feminism, the
second contains some telling pictures of the lives of
New York girl-workers, especially during unemploy-
ment.
The Marching Cloud begins in 1866, when women
were beginning to claim rights to equal suffrage. It
tells the story of a girl who escaped from repressive
paternal control by marrying a man whom she did
not love, but whom she admired as a scientist and
progressive thinker. She achieves freedom in the
pursuit of education, but the marriage is only a
qualified success. There is a potential lover in the
background during the latter part of the tale, and
she at length snatches at fulfilment of this side of
her nature. The experience is tragic, and in this she
is intended to typify her generation.
The Outward Room tells of a girl who has
become a victim of cyclic insanity owing to shock
consequent upon witnessing the death of a beloved
brother in an accident. During one of her “recovered
periods” she escapes from the institution, and there
ensues the story of her experiences in New York and
of her constant flight from the threatened “depressive
period” of her mental condition. The pictures of the
garment-factory sweatshops and the ruses by which
unemployed girls live in that city are the best parts
of the book. With no legal minimum wage to protect
them they are all, in respect of output and pay, at the
mercy of the employer, and as he is in one of the
most fiercely competitive industries a particularly
vicious circle is set up. A large proportion of the
girls, it is to be gathered, are homeless, having come
from distant places attracted by the bright lights. If
they cannot pay their room-rent the landlady turns
them out; they go to all-night eating-houses, buy an
occasional cup of coffee and doze on their folded
arms. Failing that, they go to the subway, where
the “transfer” ticket system enables them to travel
and get snatches of sleep until morning. According
to the writer’s inferences, thousands of them do this
every night.
Both books, considered purely as works of fiction,
have faults. The Marching Cloud, while it surveys
its historic theme with insight, suffers in that its
characters and incidents are in general too aptly
illustrative. In this there is a loss of dramatic force.
The story of the heroine’s insanity is the weak side
of The Outward Room. The book’s better parts owe
it nothing ; it is like an amateurish frame round an
expertly-painted picture. It is in spite of their defects
that these books have claims to respectful considera-
tion.
Some One-act Plays.
With one undoubted exception and two possible
exceptions, the items in Ten Prize One-act Plays
(Allen and Unwin; 7s. 6d.) evoke only the somewhat
negative interest of noting in what way each is un-
satisfactory.
“It’s Hard to Grow Old,” by Leonard J. Hines,
telling how an aged society woman does free charing
among the poor, besides straining the probabilities,
makes two of the characters incredibly sordid in
order to emphasise the nobility of the third. “The
Sentence” (F. Howell) moves on stiff joints toward
an ending in which an ex-gaolbird is moved to “play
the game” through the influence of a young girl.
“Love and Cousin Albert” (Henry Penson), a farce
in which a man is engaged to marry two women, sacri-
fices the reality of the characters to the demands of
the situation.
Much better is “Underground” (Ken Etheridge),
which deals with the occupational risks faced by
colliers. The dramatic machinery is in plain sight,
but the characters are real and the writer’s knowledge
and sincerity command respect. “All in the Day’s
Work” (R. Wotherspoon and L. N. Jackson) also has
points. It is a farce telling how a society woman is
allegedly cured of boredom by a fashionable neurolo-
gist, who pretends, with the connivance of her hus-
band, that he has poisoned her. It would probably
be acceptable with polished acting and a brisk tempo
to hide its flimsiness.
The really bright star of this rather dim constel-
lation is “Mr. Jones Dines Out” (Stuart Ready), a
fantasy in which Mr. Sebastian Jones dines at the
“Suspended Animation Cafe” with two other men,
one of whom is his Past Self and the other his Prob-
able Future Self. The first is a priggish and bombastic
youth; the second is elderly, urbane, genial and a
bon vivant. Jones stands somewhere between the
two, with obvious inclinations towards both. The
development of acquaintanceship between the three
is amusingly dope. At a second table sits a lady who
is the Determining Factor. The elderly man, noticing
her loneliness, rises to dance with her, and there is
a pretty display of feminine charm and old-world
gallantry. The youth, who has been pompous through-
out, here becomes frantic, demanding that Jones
remembers all he has done for him in the past, his
application to study, his moral rectitude, his abstemi-
ousness. There is a moment that should bring a laugh
when Jones, in exasperation, turns to the youth and
tells him to go to the devil.
Well-written tragedy and bright farce are often
met with, but serious comedy—the true comedic spirit
—is much more rare. In that lies this one-acter’s
claim to distinction.
David of Judah.
Richard Blaker, whose But Beauty Vanishes was
fairly widely read, runs to large volumes, and in his
latest book, David of Judah (Nisbet; Angus and
Robertson ; 9s. 6d.), he has taken a large theme, too
—a great swathe of biblical history, the wars of Israel
against the Philistines, the reign of Saul, the rise of
David. The complex and familiar tale is well mar-
shalled and clearly told.
Blaker comments but little on his story ; he is
content to retell it and, now and then, play a colored
light upon it. Once he puts his finger on that divided
mentality, that haunting consciousness of two worlds,
which was at once the strength and the weakness of
Israel and made them a “peculiar people.”
Israel was travelling headlong now, in the direction
of things, toward the chimera which goggled the eyes
and rounded the bellies of the blood-swilling uncircum-
cised. It was the chimera of possessions in kind, and
of sensations . bought therewith for the flesh —instead
of fulfilment of the will of God; a state of body
and of circumstance instead of a state of mind.
Unfortunately, Blaker does not pursue this motif.
As the book proceeds two serious defects—the prose
style and the characterisation —become evident. The
style is a curious cross of the biblical, Donn Byrne
and Blaker’s own, which is artificially grave and
simple. The “realistic attitude of mind” which the
blurb draws attention to is represented by modern
colloquialisms. Samuel’s sons were “crooks,” Samuel
himself “a peppery old prophet,” David, the “big shot,”
was a “good mixer,” and there is much talk of the
“grass racket,” of racketeers, graft, gangsters, bosses
and—curious intrusion —of lairds. It is as if, while
availing himself of the traditional splendor and dignity
of the biblical theme, the author was anxious to
assure his readers, on the side, that he is not taken
in by it.
More serious is a lack of individuality in the
characters. They evoke no sympathy and, in them-
selves, no interest. The life of the book comes from
the story it tells, not from the men who acted out
the story, which leaves the heart of the book cold.
David of Judah never achieves intensity—and, after
all, the Bible tells the story much better and more
compactly.
Russian Farmers.
Though it may sound like heresy to say so, Anna,
by Boris Zaitsev (Allen and Unwin ; 65.), translated
by Natalie Duddington, conveys the feeling of Russian
earth and Russian land workers more satisfactorily to
this reviewer than anything he has previously read—
not excluding Chekhov. Differences between Eastern
and Western Europe seem to be less stressed than
resemblances, with a result that a line of approach
to understanding is opened up. Perhaps, in the case
of the characters, it is that Zaitsev does not scorn a
touch of humor as a means to illumination. He
offers a few notes on Anna’s foster-father:
Matvey Martynitch was always satisfied both with
himself and his surroundings. He patted his hogs and
sows and his own wife with the same sense of complete
satisfaction. Everything appeared to him in a pleasant
light. The centre of the world was himself, Matvey
Martynitch, who knew and understood everything, so
that it was no use arguing with him. Quite good-
naturedly he killed with his own hands the hogs
whose health and weight he watched so lovingly while
they lived. He killed them lovingly, too. It was as it
should be. It was good.
The background of the story is the Revolution,
not described but felt in the uneasiness of the lives
of the characters. Chief of these are: Anna, a warm-
hearted girl, orphaned and living with her distant
relations, the Martynitches; Matvey Martynitch, half
in love with Anna; Marta, Matvey’s wife, very
jealous of her husband; and Arkady, Anna’s lover,
a once-prosperous landowner, now dispossessed and
living on the outskirts of a near-by town. Secondary
characters are friends of the family, Soviet agents and
soldiers, and members of a furtive banditry which,
apparently, added robbery and murder for private
gain to the executions and confiscations of authority.
Throughout the movement of the story Zaitsev
keeps the physical world in mind, indoors and out,
and gives numerous pictures, all of them short, inti-
mate and tellingly exact. Describing Anna’s approach
to the town where she will see her lover, he embodies
a glimpse of the landscape:
She was a little late. It was growing dusk, and a
cold, copper-colored streak of sunset lay over the bluish
forests in the distance. The horse went along at a
slow trot, the cart jolted up and down in the ruts
of the rough road, and dry grass brushed against the
wheels. There was a sharp and bitter smell of worm-
wood, of horse and leather, and of grey, chilly autumn.
The belfry of Serebryanoe rose steeply against the
background of the sunset. She drove by the ditch
that surrounded an old park with bare lime-trees
where rooks kept up a deafening noise, rising in slow
eddies into the sky.
The story is a triumph of simplicity in that it
acknowledges, with a proper estimate of values, social
and individual factors of which it does not explicitly
tell. Its tragic nature is alleviated by the character
of Anna, the idyllic nature of her love for Arkady
and the steadfast decency of her dealings with the
Martynitches. After she is killed, vainly trying to
defend their possessions against three bandits, the
Martynitches, impoverished, return to their native
Latvia. A repetitive note in the book’s pattern is
little Martyn Martynitch, playing with his toys, set-
ting them up and idly knocking them over. The
reader is left with that picture.
Reviewed Briefly .
FICTION . . .
Magic Journey : Phyllis May Wilson (Mills and
Boon ; 7s. 6d.). Elissia decides that tapping a type-
writer in London is no life for a girl of spirit, so she
packs her bag for the Transvaal. She has plenty of
back-veld adventures, safely escaping into the pro-
tecting arms of Mr. Right.
They Called Him Night hawk: Sydney Horler
(Hodder and Stoughton ; 7s. 6d.). The story of a
crook who was not a crook but who, like “The Wild
Colonial Boy,” only robbed the wicked rich to help
the virtuous poor. Neither the lofty motives of the
character nor the device by which he is finally taken
from the clutches of the police carry conviction.
A Peddler’s Pack: Elizabeth Goudge (Duck-
worth ; 7s. 6d.). Magazine short stories. The author
is content with the bright surface of life. The con-
tents of her “pack” should appeal to those who like
to be amused but not disturbed. She has a very
attractive prose style.
They Lived in County Down: Kathleen Fitzpat-
rick (Chatto and Windus; 7s. 6d.). A book about
children for grown-ups. Tells of the small adventures
of an Irish family, one of whom, Honeybird, is both
precociously profane and a gifted teller of amusing
untruths. There is no plot, but the successive sketches
of family life are pleasing.
Rustlers on the Smoky Trail: Dan James
(Robert Hale; 3s. 6d.). Love, rattling hooves and
roaring automatics on the wide open range. The
hero and his mate are pitted against a mysterious
and well-organisd gang of rustlers, but by dint of
grit and straight shooting carry the day.
Cut Flowers: Guy Fletcher (Cassell; 7s. 6d.).
Jennifer is down to her last shilling when she lands
a job in a florist’s. She makes a hit with the boss,
and runs foul of Sonia, the head girl. Troublesome
times ensue, especially after Sonia spots her at a
roadhouse with a questionable companion, but
Jennifer carries off the orange-blossoms in the end.
Shadow Over Spennylam : F. W. Lister (Frederick
Muller; 7s. 6d.). Set in the depressed industrial
areas of Durham. Tells of a young man’s small ambi-
tions thwarted by unemployment, of life on the dole
and the humiliations of the “means test.” A realistic
study softened by a fortunate love interest. The
author obviously writes with knowledge.
GENERAL . . .
Strange Wonders: Christopher Sykes (Long-
mans ; 7s. 6d.), is a series of stories and sketches deal-
ing with the Englishman abroad. Most interesting is
the personal-experience yarn entitled “The German
Character,” which draws a sombre picture of a Ger-
man baron so oppressed by his country’s misfortunes
that he takes to badger-hunting (a particularly messy,
bloodthirsty sport) and cruelly punishing his children
for the slightest fault, real or imagined. “Invention”
is a story about a popular novelist’s real experiences
in a Mediterranean island and the remarkable sea-
change they underwent when he turned them into
fiction. Sykes has a good, vigorous style and a rather
cruel humor.
VERSE ...
Before the Swallow Dares, by John Heney
(Angus and Robertson ; 7s. 6d.). The blurb on the
jacket claims that the author “says something vital
in polished and harmonious measure.” Sample from
213 pages of minstrelsy:
My love is away
I am very sad
Even the sunny day
Cannot make me glad.
Oh, my love is flown,
Leaving me to brood
I am all alone
With my pensive mood.
All that I could wish
Is that she were here
Then my anguish
- ’Would disappear.'
And so (he torch lit by Henry Parkes is handed on!


Ardath . . Famous in England for quality
Ask Tor
5 ST
"THE CIGARETTES
YOU ARE
PROUDER
TO OFFER”!
■
6186-6-7
“Ardath Elevator”—just
another Special touch
exclusive to “Ardath
Specials.”
20
10
FOR ONE AND SIX
FOR NINEPENCE
Also Flat and Round 50's and 100's Boxes


PARA
■ t . ****%.#**?
S-?**2
iv- ‘ -. •*-
* *' y ILA L 4fe. ** -S L*jm* -' v - *■* ■
'M m 4flP; •... v ■ '•Af^jggJfc^P^. -;
J **A « »*':;**■?- *> ™ J V»«*
W ** »
*<#■***
1A
Mwm&
s*,»
*,: *
«* ** <**
art*
*fc
**>
«W;
:K;
m
m*f&.
!SkZ?
r£
iis
HT - A . *
3*
u «
mm
*K
m
ssSaa.
wmsimr™' %
m
m
m &
Some of the wine-filled casks to be placed in one of the huge storage cellars .


THE SHEPHERDS’ HOLIDAY.
“A chorus of exultation has gone up from politicians who, as a result of terrific taxation, have produced surpluses.”
“Sheep, why the devil don’t you gambol?”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper .
'‘Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: National Mutual Buildings, 91
King William Street, Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Saywell Buildings, 115 Lambton
Quay, Wellington.
London: 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London,
E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 15s. 6d.;
3 months, Bs.
Posted Free to any address Overseas {Foreign):
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 25.; 3
months, 11s.
SURPLUSES AND TAXES.
Australia’s seven Governments, six of which are
invested with powers and pomp which have become
excessive, have been publishing brief accounts of their
financial performances for the year to June 30. Sur-
pluses are claimed at Canberra, Sydney, Melbourne,
Adelaide and Hobart; deficits are acknowledged at
Brisbane and Perth.
The deficits £280,000 in Queensland and
£369,000 in Westralia —are real enough, though doubt-
less understated, it being a maxim of State Govern-
ment policy never to charge up to revenue what can
be charged up to loans. In N. S. Wales this policy has
been combined with prodigious borrowing, so the
N.S.W. “surplus” (£134,900) is clouded with doubt.
The Commonwealth’s credit balance (£1,276,000) is
probably genuine, and fantastic grants of Common-
wealth tax-money (£1,930,000 in “special” subventions
alone) put the Adelaide Government in the way of
producing a surplus of £139,000 and the Hobart
Government of reporting that it was at least £2OOO
to the good.
Considering the terrific taxes they levy, all the
Governments should have substantial surpluses, and
this without the artful aid of loan expenditure. It is
asserted, indeed, that, if sinking-fund payments,
£9,390,000, are allowed for, their total receipts exceeded
their total “ordinary” expenditure by £10,288,000;
but loan expenditure, admitted and not admitted —in
N. S. Wales especially a lot of it has been done
through local bodies far exceeded sinking-fund
contributions. And already the cry has gone up that
the £16,000,000 arranged to be borrowed through the
Loan Council for 1937-38 spendings an amount
exclusive of such items as £3,000,000 for the Sydney
Water Board, which was recently permitted to be the
instrument of raising £2,000,000 sterling for the Sydney
Government in London —is far too small.
Since the Commonwealth Government was
relieved of its obligation to pay interest on its war
debt to the British Government it has had no need
to borrow, nor, indeed, has it borrowed much. Its
Treasurer, Mr. Casey, intimated that provision for
defence would make such heavy calls on revenue that
it would be an achievement to balance the Budget, but
there might be a surplus of £40,000 or so. His colleague,
Mr. Parkhill, warned taxpayers to be resigned to “the
highest annual peace expenditure on defence since
Federation,” and calculated the 1936-37 outlay at
£8,809,400, of which £6,831,000 would be “provided
from revenue this financial year” and £1,952,000
“financed from Trust Fund, Defence Equipment
Account.” If Canberra hasn’t got things mixed up
the estimate was exceeded by £138,000. In spite of
this there was a surplus of £1,276,000. It shows
what a bad guesser and clumsy taxer Mr. Casey is.
Relatively, as well as actually, Britain is spending
far more on defence than Australia is. Partly to
provide for the new rearmament programme the
Chamberlain Government raised the standard rate of
income tax 3d. in the £, making it ss. It sounds a
lot, but on small and medium incomes, with the
exemptions and abatements conceded, it works out at
less than our Commonwealth and State Governments
take from such incomes ; moreover, John Bull doesn’t
bump up living costs with a sales tax. An Australian
taxation authority has compiled a list of what family
men in modest circumstances pay in Britain with the
standard rate at ss. Here it is, abbreviated:
Income from Personal Exertion.
Married: Married: Married :
One Child Two Children Three Children
(Exemption £300). (Exemption £375). (Exemption £450).
£ £ s. d. £ s. d. £ s. d.
325 ... 1 13 4-
350 .. 3 6 8
375 .. 5 0 0
400 .. 6 13 4 1 13 4
425 .. 8 6 8 3 6 8
475 .. 12 10 0 6 13 4 1 13 4
500 .. 17 10 0 8 6 8 3 6 8
Income from Property.
Married: Married: Married :
One Child Two Children Three Children
(Exemption £240). (Exemption £300). (Exemption £360).
£ £ s. d. £ s. d. £ s. d.
250 16 8
275 .. 2 18 4
300 .. 5 0 0
325 .: • 7 1 8 2 18
350..934 434
375 .. 11 5 0 6 5 0 1 5 0
400 .. 17 10 0 8 6 8 3 6 8
450 .. 30 0 0 15 0 0 7 10 0
500 .. 42 10 0 27 10 0 12 10 0
Scores of thousands of Australians would be
glad to swap their assessments with Britons in receipt-
of the same income. In N. S. Wales a family man
on £5OO a year, whether personal earnings or property
income, pays £lB 6s. Bd. in “special” income tax, and
in Queensland £22 18s. 4d. in unemployed-relief tax ;
and he pays ordinary income tax and Commonwealth
income tax as well. All these “special” and unem-
ployed-relief taxes are imposed on gross income,
so they are essentially unsound and unfair. Nowhere
do the unemployed get much of the proceeds ; as in
the case of the 74d. a gallon extracted from motorists
using petrol, they, for the most part, go into con-
solidated revenue and are used in all manner of ways.
The rule is to tax even money paid in satisfaction of
some other tax (though the Commonwealth is honest
in this respect): N. S. Wales not only imposes
“ordinary” tax” on what has been deducted at the
source of income for its “special” tax, but taxes
residents of other States on income drawn from N. S.
Wales and taxed in their own States and by the
Commonwealth, again levying on the full income,
though the victim never receives it.
Clearly there should be a substantial reduction
of taxes, both Commonwealth and State. It would
help industry and assist idle youths and men to get
steady jobs as nothing else could do. With all the
bloodsucking and borrowing and spending many
thousands of men remain unemployed, except on
casual relief jobs, and there is not even this donkey
work for the legion of untrained and embittered lads.
Something else must be tried, and no one can suggest
anything better than giving industry an incentive to
train the lads and employ the men.
Election and Referendum.
An inspiring event of the past week was the crossing
of the Atlantic by flying-boats of the companies which
are to establish an air-mail and passenger service
between Britain and the U.S.A. Sikorsky (Pan-
American Airways) flew from west to east, Botwood,
Newfoundland, to Foynes, Ireland ; Caledonia (Im-
perial Airways) from east to west, Foynes to Bot-
wood. For the actual ocean passage Sikorsky made
the faster time —12 hours 40 minutes, as against Cale-
donia’s 15 hours 10 minutes —but each was a superb
achievement, superbly planned.
While the crew of the Caledonia were making
their preparations, the Free State Government enter-
tained them at lunch, and before they set out Mr.
de Valera arrived to wish them God-speed and to
lead the cheering when they departed. Perhaps
another good augury for the future relations of the
English-speaking democracies; certainly a proof of
courtesy and goodwill, for the President would have
had the right to plead another engagement. He had been
immersed in the study of election and constitutional-
referendum figures which could in no way have
delighted him. His Fianna Fail emerged from the
contest in the constituencies the strongest party in
the Dail, but it failed of a majority over the other
parties and units. It will have to depend on Labor
to keep it in office, and Labor has some hard bar-
gains to drive, including the wiping-out of an unobtru-
sive dragnet clause in the new Constitution which
allows Parliament, headed by a Premier chosen by
the President, to alter the President’s powers.
As for the Constitution, it was accepted by
686,042 votes to 528,296, but the majority must have
been disappointing. It would assuredly have been
reversed had the 1,300,000 people in Northern Ireland
voted, as well as the 3,000,000 in the Free State.
The Constitution runs to about 16,000 words. It
declares that the national territory “consists of the
whole of Ireland, its islands and territories,” but adds
that “pending the reintegration” of the whole and
“without prejudice to the right of Parliament to exer-
cise jurisdiction over the whole,” the laws of Eire
apply only to what is now Free State territory. The
President, to be elected for seven years by direct vote
of the electors, will be head of a “sovereign, indepen-
dent, democratic State.” All laws will be signed by
him, he is to make all appointments, and is to have
discretion in the choice of a Premier and as to
dissolutions.
Parliament is to consist of a popular Chamber,
also to be elected for seven years, with powers
corresponding to those of our House of Repre-
sentatives, and a Senate. To the Senate two
universities will each elect three Senators, the President
will nominate nine and another 45 will be chosen
in five groups, to represent various branches of indus-
try, education and the public service. The Supreme
Court becomes the interpreter of the law and the
Constitution. Neither the King nor the British Com-
monwealth is mentioned. In the opinion of the “Irish
Times,” which still prints the Court Circular on its
leader page, that does not matter ; citizens of Eire
will still have to travel on passports issued in the name
of the King, and Eire will remain a member of the
British Commonwealth.
The Governments at London and Dublin still
differ on the subject of the land annuities and are
engaged in a sort of tariff war. It is a most gentle-
manly war. From time to time each party makes
concessions. It is also significant that the Free State
Government has consistently supported British foreign
policy, even to the imposition of “sanctions” on
another Catholic country.
It is now admitted in Britain that a mistake was
made when the negotiations with Mr. de Valera were
placed in the clumsy hands of Mr. Jimmy Thomas,
and there are English writers who maintain that, in
the original Free State Constitution and the Statute
of Westminster, the Fianna Fail leader has had
“legalistic” warrant for every change he has intro-
duced since the breach. Be that as it may, it is clear
that a great many Irishmen want to stay in the British
Commonwealth, and there is good ground for hoping
that a generation will arise that will accept the status
that Australians and Canadians enjoy, achieve national
unity, and possibly send members to the Parliament
at Westminster again. If they were as eloquent as the
men who gathered about Parnell, they would be a
great addition to its debating strength.
Why War Won't Come.
To get at the real value of all the scaremongering
war-talk it is only necessary to look into the papers
when something of genuine public interest has hap-
pened. Then it all vanishes like the bad dream it is.
Round-the-world flier Mrs. Putnam went down
into the Pacific at the end of what was, according to
the Australian press, the week of greatest “tension”
in international affairs since the passing of the Abys-
sinian “crisis.” So well had the alarmists done their
work that week that it became well-nigh impossible
even for people not easily rattled to retain any con-
fidence in the world’s continuing at peace. The
crescendo of shrill prophecy, mounting over the
preceding months, had reached its peak. It was
made to seem that those who believed that no “world-
wide conflagration” was imminent were short-sighted,
dangerously misleading the public into a false state
of security. The prophets had never spoken with
greater assurance.
Then Mrs. Putnam went down into the sea.
Instantly the “crisis” passed. “News” that had
screeched under double-column headings was assessed
by the headliners at its proper worth or disappeared
altogether. There was real news at last.
The same thing happened when Edward VIII.
left the throne. For a full fortnight then the prophets
of calamity were given a spell. What was served up
in the space they ordinarily fill may have sometimes
been of dubious value ; but at least the bulk of it
had an authentic basis, a genuine human appeal and
general interest. While it lasted the loudest trumpeter
of impending war between nations shrilled unheard.
Similarly, again, when the jubilating news of the
Coronation came along. For a full week the world
seemed a bright enough place. Even at this distant
remove from the scene business generally received a
fresh impetus. For a week it looked as if not merely
prosperity but the calmness that prevailed before
sensationalism became a vested interest had returned.
People went about their affairs undisturbed by the
screamings of the prophets.
So it goes on. When there is no genuine news
there are always the prophets of dire calamity to fall
back on. This has been going on now for more than
a decade. Instantly real news is available, out go the
prophets; as soon as public interest in that news
flags, back they come.
Yet, apart from the appeal that lies in a funda-
mental human weakness for contemplating misfor-
tune, there is no earthly reason why they should get
a hearing at all. There are certainly elements in
current world affairs that can be construed as signs
and portents of possible difficulty; there are others
which make war between nations —as they have made
it this past 20 years—at least sufficiently unlikely not
to remain any longer the chief preoccupation of
people’s minds, to the detriment of their individual
peace and their general well-being.
Countries to which the calamity prophets mostly
point are Germany, Italy and Japan. If it had the urge
still, and had learned nothing from its last disastrous
adventure in war, the first of those countries could
yet be counted out, if for no other reason than that
it has not recovered to a position where it could wage
a war with any hope of success. Britain, now strongly
rearming, and France, powerfully defended, could see
to that, allowing the Red Army to have been—as no
doubt it has been greatly overrated. Germany
has done a bit of sabre-rattling in throwing off strang-
ling Versailles Treaty provisions, but nobody who
considers those provisions without prejudice thinks
any the worse of Germany on that account. To-day
Germany has too big a job in hand building itself
as a nation anew and striving towards pre-1914 pros-
perity to undertake lightheartedly any such war as
the calamity prophets freely forecast.
Italy, most unbiased observers admit, was given
a raw deal at the post-war division of the spoils.
This has been forcefully rectified with the annexation
of Abyssinia. Whatever may be the judgment of
history on the latest of many European conquests in
Africa, the whole of Italy’s surplus energy and
manhood will be occupied for many years to come
in holding and developing its new territories. There-
fore, the last thing Italy wants is any war on the lines
visioned by the prophets. It is not a rich country.
Japan wants to be left alone in peace to develop
its acquired Manchukuo. That is the direction in
which it has chosen to spread itself, and there is
strong evidence in the work that is being done in
Manchukuo that Japan is in earnest there. It is a
tremendous job ; it alone counts Japan out as a
nation conceivably eager for war.
Additionally, these countries —along with Eng-
land, France, Russia and others —are none of them
peopled with grinning maniacs, as they would have
to be to give body to the inferences of the alarmists.;
All of them know from recent experience that
wars on the grand scale are long wars, and that
any war between Great Powers is a fearful under-;
taking, the last fatal calamity to which a nation can
be committed.
This reading of the international situation to-day
is at least as warranted as the opposite reading reiter-
ated by war prophets for a decade, and still repeated,
though these prophets have been proved false ovei
and over. What strikes visitors to any of those coun-
tries if they are observers and not mere echoes of
war-scare newspapers—is the healthy internal caln)
of the mass of people in them all. That is a great
force to be reckoned with in any estimating of the
likelihood of war. There, as here and elsewhere, the
general run of people can fairly truly be said to have
adopted peace as a new religion. While this feeling
holds, war is highly unlikely.
MACANN.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Death of a Broadcaster.
A fortnight ago an announcer at the A.B.C.’s 2BL
station, Sydney, collapsed at the microphone and
died later in the day. Since then expressions of public
sympathy have been continuous. Not many tragic
occurrences have evoked a wave of feeling so con-
siderable, sincere and heartfelt.
There was good reason for this public display.
In thumbnail biography, the announcer, H. M. H.
Watts, was an Englishman who before he was 20 was
fighting in France. An adventurer —in the best sense
of the word —he came to Australia and tried fruit-
growing, taxi-driving and other occupations before he
went into broadcasting and there made himself fami-
liar to all those who have been so moved by his death.
All the rest of his career, except his broadcasting,
has been matched by thousands who could go hence
to-morrow without causing a ripple. So could scores
of broadcasters. The difference lies in the nature of
the dead announcer's broadcasting, and that is simply
described —it was good-humored. It was amusing, as
well; often extremely clever; but it was in his good-
humor rather than his humor that his difference lay.
And that was a difference not only between this
dead announcer and other broadcasters. From the
ponderous solemnity of many commentators and the
staccato style of broadcasting “dramatically” affected
by others, it was certainly arrestingly different. But
the contrast touched a wider sphere.
If there is one Old Man of the Sea riding this
earth at the present time it is that too many in it
take themselves too seriously. Not only individuals,
but whole nations seem to have lost the lease of their
sense of humor. It is the root cause of all the massing
of armies, the strutting, the parading, the touchiness,
the heroics, the false dignity, the bombast and the
inter-tribal baiting that fill the newspapers with
“crises” and “tensions” from day to day, give these
papers themselves, by the sheer weight of it, a general
bad-tempered tone and turn them into frenzied advo-
cates of “action” on this, that and the other piffling
provocation.
However restricted his sphere, one who helped to
restore the balance to good-humor did a notable service.
From "A Very Reliable Source."
Last week yet another of General Franco’s “secret
documents” became public property. He had sent
it to “Herr Hitler and Signor Mussolini, and, possibly,
the Portuguese Government.” The authenticity of
it is vouched for —the “Paris correspondent of the
Manchester ‘Guardian’” had “received a summary”
of it “from a very reliable source.”
By itself it proved conclusively that Franco is
an imbecile ; taken in conjunction with other war-
“news” of the same date, it made his imbecility com-
pletely understandable.
“S. M. Herald” (“secret Sydney “Sun.”
document”). General Franco is be-
General Franco requests lieved to be willing to dis-
|from Germany and Italy] cuss the removal of foreign
125,000 more men, 500 troops, as he is said to be
more ’planes, 50 batteries seriously concerned about
of artillery and a consider- the possible extent of
able number of tanks. German and Italian interest
in Spain after the civil war.
Same war, same General, same day. The fellow has
so overworked himself writing “secret documents” —
Granny “Herald’s” is at least the third left lying around
—that his mind has cracked in two. One half of it
writes the “secret document” appeal to Hitler and
Mussolini; the other half halts and ponders:
“S. M. Herald” (“secret “Sun.”
document ). p j s asser t ec i that rela-
General Franco empha- tions between Franco’s
sises that it is absolutely troops and the Italians are
necessary for him to avoid most strained. Franco’s
a second winter campaign, men refuse to salute Italian
He proposes a simul- officers,
taneous offensive against j t seems likely that, now
Madrid and on the Teruel that victory is within his
front with the object of grasp, nothing would please
cutting off Valencia from Franco better than to be
Barcelona, but requires re- r jd 0 f every German and
inforcements from abroad. Italian in Spain.
But the fellow can’t believe even the evidence of his
own eyes. He holds two-thirds of the territory of
Spain, and two-thirds of the Spanish people are behind
his lines. Yet:
“S. M. Herald” (“secret “S. M. Herald” (pictorial
document,” p. 15). section, p. 18).
He admits that he has not Girls cheering and march-
the support of the Spanish jng through the streets of
people, but he declares Bilbao with the banner of
that he is ready to hold a General Franco flying be-
referendum in insurgent fore them.
SSi tory Hit£ d a h n e d Pr °sSis JS'SSat
entry of General Franco’s
will be favorable. troops into the city.
Same paper, same day, different pages. “Not sup-
ported by the people!” insists the author of Granny
“Herald’s” “secret document” ; “Liar!” retort Granny’s
picture-makers. For a captured city Bilbao is shown
to be in an extraordinarily undamaged condition.
That was July 7. By next day all trace of this
momentous “secret document” had vanished. Not
a word of reference to it anywhere. Instead, a somer-
sault in the old lady’s cable column of July 8:
Apart from sea and land control, the question of the
withdrawal of foreign volunteers from Spain is growing
in importance. The prospects of an agreement are
brighter, in view of the loyalist support of the proposal
and General Franco’s reported willingness to consider it.
About the only thing that might save the Spanish
Government side now would seem to be an enlarge-
ment of the civil war into an international upheaval.
The possibility of this escape becomes more remote
every day.
Exporting Sheep.
The N. S. Wales Graziers’ Association rightly fears
that re-export from Maoriland might nullify the Aus-
tralian embargo on export of merinos to foreign coun-
tries and other Dominions. The M.L. Agricultural
Minister says his Government has agreed to co-
operate with the Commonwealth Government in this
matter.
Co-operation needs to be carefully planned.
Exchange of sheep between Australia and Maori-
land is desirable. The interests of the two
Dominions are common, and Maoriland competition
can never be extensive enough to menace the Aus-
tralian wool trade. The high standard of farming
in Maoriland and the suitability of the country for
breeding may result in producing types which wilt
improve Australian sheep.
Any sheep sent to Maoriland, however, should
go there under registration, and re-export of progeny,
pure or otherwise, should be prohibited by watertight
Maoriland legislation.
The Australian embargo system, too, needs over-
hauling. While it is impossible to send merino rams
and breeding ewes abroad, Corriedales and Polwarths
can be exported. These sheep are definitely suitable
for production in other continents, and their develop-
ment in countries which at present buy medium-
strength wools from Australia may be to our definite
disadvantage. Polwarrh wools have made great strides
in the last few years. Better-class Polwarth lines com-
pete with merinos of the same spinning standards on
at least an equal basis, sometimes in Victoria beating
them in price.
Australia cannot afford to give up an inch of
its wool business. In good times, when prices are
high and demand heavy, small foreign competition
does not matter so much, but when prices are low or
supplies constricted through drought every pound
counts.
There should be an absolute embargo on the
export of all Australian breeding sheep, except to
Maoriland under proper safeguards.
Legalised Larceny.
“Ruling”— -one of thousands — by the N. S. Wales
Taxation Commissioner, like his six brothers a law
to himself in these matters:
Interest derived by a Victorian from mortgages
secured in N.S.W. is taxable for special-income-tax
purposes by the N.S.W. department.
That means that it is liable for four taxes, Com-
monwealth and two Victorian (“ordinary” and
unemployed-relief) being the others. And in the
case of the “special” N. S. Wales impost, which
is alleged to be for unemployed-relief, although the
unemployed never see a third of the proceeds, the
whole interest is taxed, not what the other Govern-
ments have left.
. There is one consolation about this sort of legal-
ised larceny. The provincial politicians responsible
for it, whether deliberately, indolently or ignorantly—
as a rule, taxation measures are “taken as read” in
their Houses —are laying a mine that will some day
blow them to smithereens.
Employment in Factories.
Factory employment in Australia showed a further
substantial development in 1935-36, reaching the
record figure for average full-time workers of 492,771.
In 1928-29 factory employees numbered 450,482. By
1931-32 the shrinkage was to 336,658. Happily, the
recovery since 1932 has been large and sustained:
Average Numbers
Employed. Increases.
1931- 336,658
1932- 370,727 34,069
1933- 405,909 35,182
1934- 449,598 43,689
1935- 492,771 43,173
156,113
There are many reasons for this improvement,
a cogent one being that imports were not stimulated
by external borrowing. This is something which poli-
ticians should try to understand and appreciate.
Unfortunately the third manufacturing State has
had a relatively low share of the general development.
Yearly Percentage Increases in Factory Workers.
Queensland. All States.
1932- 4.44 10.12
1933- 3.45 ■ 9.49
1934- 6.89 9.72
1935- 4.83 9.60
One reason for these discrepancies is the depressing
and deterrent effects of excessive taxation in the
northern State, whose natural advantages are so vast:
State Taxation Per Head of Population.
Queensland. All States.
1932- £6 0 4 £5 13 3
1933- 630 5 3 7
1934- 6 16 3 5 9 0
1935- 7 10 8 6 1 8
The average for all States is, of course, raised by
the inclusion of Queensland figures. Separating them
for one year, 1935-36, it is discovered that had the
people in the other five States paid on the Queens-
land schedules their bill would have been £43,423,873,
whereas it was £33,658,795, so that they had an
advantage of £9,765,000 to use in industry.
If progress in factory employment since 1932 in
Queensland had corresponded with the upward move-
ment in the rest of Australia the increase in the
northern State would have been 16,600. But it was
9329. Average wage in Queensland secondary indus-
tries in 1935 was £192 7s. sd. Multiply that by 7271
—and look again at the taxation records.
The Trade-diversion Boomerang.
Before the Lyons Government lost a Minister in
March, Mr. Harry Gullett was its trade-diversion and
trade-treaty man. Since Mr. Gullett departed—it
happened after “orderly marketing” was routed and
the abandonment of the sillier of the trade wars was
decided upon—Mr. Tommy White has become the
champion of these “policies.”
Mr. White recently held forth on the benefits
Britain has derived from the trade-diversion stunt.
mentioning motor-cars. He went on to chide Aus-
tralian Glass for curtailing production in its cut-
crystal works and to bang motor-body builders for
putting men off. He was answered immediately and
with astonishing vigor.
The president of the Chamber of Automotive
Industries said it was true that there had been an
increased demand for British cars, but it was solely
because British types had grown in favor: “It cannot
be said that the gain came as a result of the trade-
diversion policy.” The managing director of Aus-
tralian Glass said the market for cut-crystal had
been swamped by importations from trade-treaty
countries, chiefly Czechoslovakia.
The only result of trade diversion, as far as this
company is concerned, is to prevent the acquiring of
very necessary machine tools while the overseas product
of those tools is coming in.
T. J. Richards and Son said they had had to put
off men because they were short of sheet steel. Im-
ports of sheet steel from the U.S.A. had been banned
in the name of trade-diversion, Canberra being under
the impression that British manufacturers could meet
all requirements, which they had failed to do. Other
motor-body builders intimated that they also were
short of supplies.
Trade-diversion, as applied by Mr. Tommy
White’s Ministry, is a weapon that rebounds. It is
aimed at a foreigner’s head, and it hits an Australian
in the stomach.
At a Commercials" Dinner.
In the company of commercial travellers, after the
port had circulated and the last savory been success-
fully surrounded, Mr. Hartigan, the N. S. Wales
Government Railways Commissioner, brought off the
joke of the season. And it was expressed in simple
language, as a joke should be. Mr. Hartigan said:
For the financial year just closed, the Railway
Department showed a surplus of approximately £30,000.
This compared with a deficit of £4,500,000 four years
ago.
Commercial travellers are jocular fellows, and
Mr. Hartigan’s contribution to the gaiety of the occa-
sion must have been highly appreciated. But the
humor of it was lost on the “Daily Telegraph” (the
“new” one —the one that recently suggested a Russian
alliance), which forthwith broke into a rhapsody:
“Four years ago a deficit of £4,500,000 ; last year, a
surplus of £30,000... .Happy state of affairs”!
The N.S.W. railways is an employer in a very big
way. The basic-wage rise means an extra £70,000 on its
yearly wage bill, yet Mr. Hartigan says he is very glad
to pay it.
Glad Mr. Hartigan may be, but Mr. Hartigan
won’t pay it. The customers of his department, volun-
tary and enforced, and the taxpayers will do that.
The taxpayers have to meet the losses on the N. S.
Wales Government railways, and the Auditor-General,
on the information furnished to him—inadequate, he
annually complains reckoned these losses for 10
years to June 30, 1935, at £28,178,700.
Such of the losses as are not met out of the
current year’s taxes are charged up to the State loan
account. On this, of course, interest has to be paid.
On the merry occasion which saw Mr. Hartigan
evolve his effort of humor, Premier Stevens, who is
never consciously humorous, mentioned “£40,000,000
of unproductive debt, on which there is a charge
which does not fall far short of £2,000,000 a year.”
Mr. Hartigan’s department is exempt from this
charge. Actually, it is getting the use of millions
free of interest, on which the State is paying round
4 per cent.; “at June 30,” the Auditor-General
notes, “the gross expenditure for this purpose was
£2,016,000.” It is also getting an annual £BOO,OOO of
tax-money over and above the tax-money which has
to be set aside to meet his department’s losses.
The department pays neither rates nor taxes, but
as a city and country landlord and restaurateur
it competes with those who do. Common carriers
who try to compete with it, and who, of course, pay
rates and taxes, are discouraged with savage special
taxation and other punitive measures —in some cases
their vehicles have been seized on the King’s highway.
Depreciation? The word is never mentioned
except in the refreshment-room branch, which of
late years has generally been run at a loss. Incidentally,
“the deficit of £4,500,000 four years ago” figured at
£3,360,400 in Mr. Hartigan’s last annual report, but
what’s a matter of a million or so at a bagmen’s
dinner? _
Maoriland Accepts Luckner.
In Maoriland, as in Australia, there have been protests
against Count von Luckners proposed visit —but with
what different outcome!
Customs Minister Fagan told the protesters
that “Count von Luckner will be treated exactly in
the same manner as any other distinguished visitor.”
He added some remarks that his counterpart in Aus-
tralia should repeat daily before breakfast by way of
self-education:
111-considered statements do not make for the inter-
national goodwill so desirable at the present juncture.
There is ample provision under the law to ensure the
immediate departure of any visitor acting in any way
subversive to peace, order or good government.
A sensible and statesmanlike utterance. By way
of comparison, Mr. Paterson, when faced with similar
childish protests a month or two earlier:
If Count von Luckner seeks permission to land in
Australia he will be cautioned before landing against
making statements or disseminating propaganda which
might be detrimental to law and order in the Com-
monwealth.
No attempt there to assess the protests at their
proper worth as “ill-considered statements,” let alone
assessment of the voyaging count as a “distinguished
visitor.” Only petty boorishness, another revelation
of the kind of “statesmanship” which had Mrs. Freer
excluded.
The Lyons Government saddled itself with a
heavyweight when it put up Mr. Paterson. It will
feel the burden before the distance is run.


Society
“AND IT'S PRINTED WITH WIMBLE'S INKS”
“Fi fa.”: In a recent case a motorist,
finding an injured man by the roadside,
put him into his car, drove him
to hospital—and, later, was sued
by his passenger for damages
on account of having increased
his injuries. It sounds an un-
grateful return for an act of
mercy; but, still, if you poke
a merely fractured rib into a
man’s lungs or convert a simple
into a compound fracture,
you're doing him serious physi-
cal injury, whatever your
motives. In another case, a
motorist took an injured per-
son to a hospital for repairs—
he had nothing to do with the
infliction of the injuries—and
found himself billed with the
hospital charges. The safest
way in such cases is to do what
you can in the way of immediate
aid, while avoiding all risk of adding
injury to injury, and then take immediate
action to get expert aid to the victim,
making it clear that you are not respon-
sible for any charges.
:!'• H 5 %
“Binduli”: Westralia’s Phil Collier, the
first Labor Premier who ever gave up his
job voluntarily to resume the status of
a mere M.L.A., appeared in a new role
at Perth the other day. He led a deputa-
tion to one of his own former Ministers
to protest against any attempt to rob the
sturdy toilers of the goldfields of their
Sunday beer. For years past, indeed from
the beginning of goldfields settlement, the
licensing laws, especially those that deal
with Sunday trading, have been so loosely
administered that they are almost a dead
letter. At long last the parsons have
begun to kick up a row about it, and
Collier, as a goldfields member, appeared
to voice the views of the other side.
Among his arguments he pointed out that
“for over 30 years the workers had been
accustomed to what was now being
opposed” and darkly hinted at the
“danger of doing anything that might
produce a grave industrial crisis through
refusal to man the mines on Sundays.”
It is long odds against any Labor Gov-
ernment which holds practically every
seat on the goldfields interfering with
their constituents’ prescriptive privileges
in the matter of Sunday pints.
$ 'i : %
“El V.”: Another Arcadian block of
London residences is to go west with the
pulling down of houses in Berkeley-
square and Bruton-street, until a little
while ago one of the most lovely spots
in any part of the West End. History
dreamed opulently among its plane-trees,
and the first break in its permanence was
the disappearance of Lansdowne House,
which till a few years ago stood on the
south side like a country mansion, in the
midst of eighteenth-century brick fronts.
Priestley discovered oxygen in Berkeley-
square. Clive committed suicide there in
1774—his descendant Lord Powis was
still at No. 45 a few years ago. Lord
Clyde and Pitt, Sheridan and Rowton,
Dizzy’s secretary, were among its former
inhabitants, and just round the corner
in Berkeley-street, which runs through to
Piccadilly, Pope dwelt at No. 9. Bruton-
street has fewer historical associations,
but the Queen was married from her
father’s house there, and Princess Eliza-
beth was born in it.
* * *
“Douglas”: A job as air-hostess, which
sounds much more imposing than air-
stewardess, cannot be quite so glamor-
ous as one is apt to suppose. Since the
first appointments were made a little over
a year ago, two or three lasses have
thrown up their billets to my knowledge.
Margaret Gilruth, a Melbourne “Herald”
“ ’Oo keeps blowin' that flamin' whistle?"
writer, who tried the job for a day, found
that it consisted more of passing brown-
paper bags to airsick men than of acting
the society hostess to sophisticated
women travellers. However, the sex
isn’t likely to be displaced aloft. The
stewards who were tried on the Sydney-
Melbourne run have long disappeared :
they did not have the same appeal to
passengers as the girls.
“Siz”: In a fairly long experience of
subbing freelance pars, from most parts
of Australia I’ve noticed that the writers
who use “pommy” as a generic term for
Englishmen in this country are nearly
always self-stated Englishmen. It’s a
cheap word, wherever it originated, and
I doubt if any but the cheapest Austra-
lians like to include it in their regular
vocabulary. My experience may differ
from that of others, but on the march in
England, France and elsewhere I
noticed that, when our lot passed a tramp-
ing line of Tommies and any disparag-
ing comment was made, the offensive
ones were usually English-born members
of our ranks, not uncommonly old sol-
diers who had themselves been Tommies
in their day. To their credit, they were
fierce barrackers for the Old Dart and
all belonging to it in any arguments in
the company. In the same category,
apparently, as the belted wife, who will
resent an outsider butting in to protect
her, or a pair of brothers who may be
habitual antagonists but will join forces
if either is attacked by anyone else.
* * * *
“Corbie”: Reference to the “huge
crow” at the funeral of a Portuguese
royalty (B. 7/7/’37) recalls the story that
before George I. died he promised the
Duchess of Kendal, one of his two Ger-
man mistresses, that, if permitted, he
would return to visit her from the spirit
land. A day or two after his demise a
big raven suddenly hopped through the
window of the Duchess’s boudoir, and
with an affable croak proceeded to make
himself at home. The old lady, con-
vinced that he was the spirit of her royal
lover, paid the bird every attention and
arranged to take him back with her to
Hanover. Before that could happen the
sooty fowl vanished and was seen no
more.
* '!= * *
“Vulagi”: For a time I was the only
officer of the local constabulary in my
corner of the Islands with a knowledge
of fingerprints, having taken a course on
the subject under the guidance of IN.S.W.
Police Commissioner Childs. After I had
abandoned my official job in favor of
a planter’s life I was approached by a
lawyer to take a day off and a fiver for
giving evidence on behalf of his client,
who had a thumb-print receipt for money
received which was being produced -by
one of my late junior sub-inspectors.
When T duly appeared, the s.-i. strongly
objected to my evidence, arguing that I
had no standing. The Beak, how-
ever, accepted counter-argument that if
my evidence had been good enough for
the courts a few months earlier it was
good enough now. Followed a solemn
inking of thumbs, the taking of prints
and a shout of laughter led by the
Bench when my reading of the print was
entirely in tavor of the objector. Our
man had dabbed his own thumb on a
receipt for money he had not paid.
* * * *
“Curate’s Egg”: One of the aims in
Government supervision up about Torres
Strait has been to break down the penal-
ties visited by Binghi elders on social
offenders. Particularly stringent were
the punishments meted out to erring
sisters who violated their admirable
moral code. In the old days death at
the stone clubs was the penalty. Later
this was superseded by denuding one
side of the scalp of hair, leaving the
other untouched. The sentence was for
as long as the hair took to grow.
* * * *
“Tinker”: The action of the Brisbane
employers and employees who agreed the
other day to try to limit the practice of
mechanics doing private work at home in
competition with employers and to the
detriment of the unemployed must have
sent a shiver down a good many backs.
Many professors and parsons and some
Ms.P. and their wives have two or three
professions these days. Isn’t it about time
the newspapers which encourage them to
fill in their spare hours as journalists and
the A.8.C., which adopts them as broad-
casting oracles, had a conference with
them and their normal employers, and
followed the Brisbane example?
* =i= * *
“Kwakprak”: Further testimony to
the need for national attention to diet,
particularly an increased use of the
“foundation” classes of food eggs,
butter, fresh milk, meat, fish, cheese,
green-leaf vegetables and so on —is
afforded by the finding of only 2000
healthy sets of teeth among 20,000
Queensland schoolchildren. Among the
discoveries were 37,000 decayed perma-
nent teeth and 30,000 decayed milk-teeth.
Queensland is no worse than other States,
and Australia is much on a par with
most other white-men’s countries. It is
not a toothbrush matter, but one of long-
continued wrong diet, both in the
children and the mothers who bore them.
The underlying cause is the insufficiency
of certain vitamins and salts, supplied
only by the “foundation” types of food.
* * * *
“Alumnus”: That trite old defiance
“They say! What do they say? Let
them say!” mentioned as figuring in one
of Sheridan’s plays (B. 30/6/’37), is the
ancient motto of the well-known Keith
family, the head of which is the Earl
of Kintore. One of the Keiths, who
was Earl Marshal (Marischal) of Scot-
land, founded the Marischal College in
Aberdeen, just after the Reformation, as
a Protestant offset to the older King’s
College, and chose for his foundation his
own family watchword: “They haif
said! Quhat say they? Let them say!”
The words are blazoned in golden letter-
ing over the main doorway of Marischal.
“Historicus”: With all the talk about
the proposal to rebury the bones of
Admiral Phillip in Sydney, people may
like to know how our first Governor ap-
peared to his contemporaries. Here is
a pen-picture of him by an unknown
scribe which I happened on in the Mit-
chell Library: —
Well I remember his little figure,
smothered up in his brown camlet cloak,
lined with green baize, his face shrivelled
and thin, aquiline nose under a large cocked
hat, gathered up in a heap, his chin be-
tween his knees, sitting under the lea of
the mainmast, his sharp and powerful
voice exclaiming, “I cannot bear this
I am as sick as a dog!”
Not a very heroic figure for an admiral.
“Harold Hardupp”: A man in Syd-
ney, attacked on the stairway of an
Oxford-street building, had his ear bitten
clean off. The human animal who fights
with his teeth is rare, but once he starts
his idiosyncrasy soon makes him known.
One of the kind was fined and im-
prisoned five times in M.L. and 11 times
in N.S.W. and Queensland before being
sent to an asylum. Such obnoxious
freaks are generally found to possess re-
markable teeth ; perhaps a knowledge of
their armament prompts the method of
fighting.
“Pituri”: There are no standard effects
of strong drink; it all depends on the
individual —and the conditions. What
might make a man witty to-day will, in
different circumstances, put him under
the table. Fresh air is one of the factors
to take into account. A man may have
kept his end up in a wine-cellar or a
crowded bar-parlor, but get him outside,
on a cold night for choice, put him in a
car, send the speedo whizzing over the
thirties, and he will go to the pack. On
the other hand, severe pain will often
keep a man sober. I know a fisherman in
North Queensland, practically a tee-
totaller, who was stung by a stone-fish.
Various remedies were tried to alleviate
the, pain without effect; finally a bottle
of o.p. rum was pushed into him, and he
didn’t blink an eyelid. Months aftar-
wards, out of curiosity, he tried a single
nip of the same rum to see how it would
act when it didn’t have a stone-fish in
conjunction. It didn’t put him exactly
blotto ; but he told me it left him un-
steady on his feet and thick in his speech.
“Bung”: Hotels of to-day seem to
have almost entirely discarded painted
signboards or wooden symbols swinging
over their doors. Fifty years ago, many
such might be encountered. I can recall,
among others, a colored painting of a
tin-whistle and a pig which adorned a
Queensland hostelry. Perhaps there are
still a few left, relics of a bygone cus-
tom. But the only one I can think of
in Sydney is “The Cauliflower,” which
displays a picture of the vegetable with
a crossed rake and spade in the back-
ground.
THE DISCONSOLATE CREDITOR.
“President Roosevelt considers that if European
countries can afford to spend vast sums on arms
they should also make some attempt to pay their
war debts to America, which total £3,500,000,000.”
They’ve bullion in stacks for the blewing
On battleships, aircraft and tanks,
But you’ll hear on all sides “Nothing doing”
When it comes to repaying the Yanks
A bit of the bunce that they hasted
In brotherly mood to advance
When the Germans had Belgium lambasted
And were biting big bits out of France.
Does it worry brass-hats or civilians,
Professors by Isis or Cam,
Or gigolos in Paris pavilions
That three and a half thousand millions
They owe Uncle Sam?
They’ve money, it’s clear, for gigantic
Rearmament, any amount.
But for Uncle across the Atlantic
Not a bean —not a bob “on account.’
That ten-figure total in sterling,
The subject of Roosevelt’s clucks,
Would soon have my brain-pan a-whirhng
If I tried to compute it in bucks.
But in Britain or Russia, it’s funny,
They don’t seem to trouble a damn,
Nor in France nor Italia the sunny,
Concerning the mountain of money
They owe Uncle Sam.
Does it make Gallic Premiers fretty
As over the screen they career,
Take the savor from Musso.’s spaghetti
Or the flavor from Chamberlain’s beer?
Does Stalin awaken no better
From slumber, all bothered and hot,
To wail at his plight as a debtor
To Uncle? Apparently not.
Their splosh they can lavishly scatter
For fear they’ll be left in a jamb
When enemy batteries batter.
But what do the billions matter
They owe Uncle Sam?
There’s a hand that palm-upwards is beckoning
From the land of the brave and the free.
Three —five —and eight noughts is the reckoning,
A pretty stiff bill, you’ll agree.
But Europe stays cold and unheedful,
And seems quite determined to show
It’s much better use for the needful,
More methods of spending its dough.
And he doubts if he wasn’t a noodle,
When he fell for the borrowers’ flam,
The fellow who hums “Yankee Doodle,”
When he thinks of the bundle of boodle
That’s owed Uncle Sam.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Colonel Bungstarter”: Pearce’s state-
ment in the, Reps, that “it is fairly
generally known that liquor may be taken
on the Trans, train from Kalgoorlie” was
characteristic. He made it worse by
hinting that the train would become an
orgy on wheels if it were allowed to sell
liquor. British and Continental trains
on runs of any length—some not more
than an hour—regard the sale of liquor,
and good liquor, too, as a detail of ordi-
nary service. Britain and Europe are
plastered with blurbs about the speed,
comfort and romance of the Trans, line
trains, and when visitors find that they
can’t buy a drink on them they get nasty.
* H= * * •
“Kilts”: The barrister who contended
that “Mac” was typically Irish (B.
7/7/’37) was emphatically wrong. Ac-
cording to the soundest Scottish teaching
“Mac” is the only correct prefix for the
Highland clans; all variations, although
mentioned in “Scottish Nation” and
other authorities as distinguishing branch
clans and septs, are admitted only as
regrettable abbreviations, and the main
clan is always given the full prefix. This
variation of the “Mac” accounts for the
fact, puzzling to outsiders, of Scottish
“ Run aaway , Tommy — don't you know it's very rude to Watch a lady
undressing?"
descendants of the same parents spelling
their name differently, some adhering to
the old form, while others get along com-
fortablv with the corruptions.
* * * *
“Shipmaster”: One has to recognise
round the coast a sudden and surprising
difference in some old friends among
coastal shipping. They explain their
disguised rig as being due to a new Kan-
garoo Point bridge over the Brisbane
River. It is not to be finished till next
year, but the A.U.S.N. boats, berthing
above it, are already shortening masts;
“Let me tell you I've dug myself out of Worse holes than this."
in the case of the Orungal and Ormis-
ton a sweeping cut from about 115 ft.
down to 65ft. The Howard Smith wharf
is so close below the bridge that they,
too, may have to do something of the
kind to avoid fouling when berthing.
The most modern mo tor-vessels squat so
low, of course, that they are not
bothered.
* * * *
“Iford”: I still recall the first Austra-
lian editor with whom I had professional
dealings, over 40 years ago. He ran a
weekly paper, or what passed for one,
on the W.A. goldfields, and he had con-
tracted with me to supply him with ten
shillings’ worth of political doggerel for
every succeeding issue. I delivered the
goods for three weeks, but when I went
round to collect it was only to find that
the paper had ceased publication, and
that my literary employer was under
arrest for embezzlement. He had been
local postmaster in addition to his other
job, and in his former capacity had been
monkeying with letters containing
cheques and bank drafts. The Supreme
Court gave him two years, and though
he emerged from Fremantle Gaol when
he had served his sentence and started
another paper in a neighboring settle-
ment, his original claim having been re-
pegged, he failed to live down his past.
He was a plausible chap, too ; years later
I learned that he had gone to England,
wooed and won a wealthy widow, and
settled down to a life of leisured ease.
* * * Hi
“Centurion”: “Prac.,” in discounting
my upholding of the efficacy of inocula-
tion against typhoid, among other diseases
(B. 7/7/’37), dismisses the necessity for
it by saying that the British losses at
Bloemfontein in the Boer War were due
to the fact that there was a war on “and
wars give any disease a fillip.” My point
was that it was precisely war conditions
in the big stoush in France and the two
Eastern theatres which clinched the effi-
cacy of inoculation, after it had been
made compulsory for all ranks. In
France, Sinai-Palestine and Mespot. con-
ditions were ideal for a devastating
enteric epidemic. Yet cases among the
inoculated troops were so few as to be
hardly worth mention.
* *- * *
“Chancery Lane”: By a will made in
1928, Mrs. Eliza Carter Hughes, of
Thornbury (Vic.), left to her husband “all
the money I die possessed of, including
money in hand or in any bank.” In 1935
she died, and not until later was it known
that in 1934 a cousin had died intestate
in U.S.A., whereby Mrs. Hughes had be-
come entitled to £434. The executor
sought the opinion of the Supreme Court
as to whether such sum passed to her
husband by virtue of the terms of the
bequest to him, or whether the words of
the will did not include it. The Court
held that the husband was entitled to
only one-third of it, the other two-thirds
passing to the four children of the mar-
riage.
H: * * *
“Vintner”: Sydney, too, had a pub
named “The Swan with Two Necks” (B.
7/7/’37). Situated somewhere near the
Town Hall it dispensed beer and the rest
up to the mid-’nineties, at least. Origi-
nally, of course, the correct title was
“The Swan with Two Nicks,” the two
nicks on the bill being the brand of the
Vintners’ Company when the annual
marking of Thames swans known as the
“swanhopping” took place.
“Aussie”: I was on the pay staff at
Victoria Barracks, Brisbane, during the
war, and can assure “Keg” (B. 7/7/’37)
that the pay-sheets at Enoggera Camp
were full of German names, the Aus-
tralian-born sons of German settlers at
Blenheim, Marburg, Zillmere and other
townships. As far as I know, none of
these were ever rejected on account of
their n^mes.
* * * ❖
“S.T.S.”: There is danger in an empty
petrol-drum when left sealed up. A
40-gallon one, discarded at Mundoora
(S.A.), lay about in a paddock for six
months. Then a boy of five managed
to unscrew the cap, lighted a match to
explore the inside —and was killed by
the explosion of bottled-up petrol vapor
that followed.
* * * *
“Sixenate”: A Sydney S.M. became
interested in a defendant (aged 47) when
he said that, borq and living in Surry
Hills, he had never seen any of the sea
beaches. Previous to that, he. had de-
clared that he could not have been impli-
cated in a robbery in Woollahra because
he “had never been that far.” Padding-
ton was the limit of his wanderings in
that direction. The magistrate insisted
that he must have gone outside the little
radius, including Redfern, to which he
admitted; yes, he had been to Rosebery
and Ascot when the races were on, and
even to Randwick; also, the dogs had
drawn him to Harold Park. “Nowhere
else?” asked the astonished Beak. “Well,
there was Long Bay.” In committing for
trial, the S.M. remarked that a little travel
might be a benefit. If the worst comes
to the worst, a sentence in N.S.W. can
take a man travelling as far as Goulburn.
H= * * *
“Izabel”: Australia has color-changing
flowers (B. 23/6/’37). There is a N.Q
creeper—it may have been introduced
from the South Sea islands —which has
clusters of florets which turn from white
to pale pink, then to rose-red in the one
day; as they may not all open together,
the clusters will often show all these
tonings at once. A plant with much the
same tendency, and a definite N.Q. native,
is the scarlet passion flower. The bud is
very pale flesh color ; as the flower opens
the petals show a deeper tint, but the
centre is bright crimson, and this gradu-
ally spreads to the whole flower. It
grows in the light sandy soil of the coastal
district and blooms at Easter.
M: * * *
“Koax, Koax”: I note with regret that
so far attempts to establish the edible-
frog industry in Australia are proving
difficult. It is on record that Macarthur
met with obstacles in introducing the
merino sheep in Australia, but he perse-
vered, with results we all know. The
occasion invariably produces the man,
and I have visions of a frog Macarthur
emulating his famous forerunner until
our frog flocks flourish from the Gulf to
the Bight. I see wool sales taking second
place to frog transactions; slaughter-
men will strike to determine the number
of frogs to be slain per diem, and poli-
ticians will struggle to find their heelers
fat billets on frog-boards. It is a vision
splendid, and I can write no more for
emotion.
* * * *
“Schnorrer”: No; Jews could not
shelter from penalties for failing to vote
on the ground of religious scruples be-
cause polls take place on Saturday (B.
7/7/’37). The Jewish Sabbath commences
at sunset on Friday; after sunset on
Saturday, on to 8 p.m., the strictest Jew
has ample time to exercise his franchise.
It was that consideration —the late Danny
Levy being the strong protagonist—that
caused the adoption of the present hours
when a proposal had been made for 6
a.m. to 6 p.m. opening of polling booths.
As the Seventh Day Adventists’ Sabbath
should, logically, be that of the Jews, I
can’t make out how those friends of
“Septimus” in the Speck escaped fines.
(Continued on page 50.)
NAZI PROPOSAL.
“Candidates in German training-schools for future
Nazi leadership must marry before they are 26.
Failure to do so will be regarded as a reflection on
a candidate’s power to make a decision and his
personal courage.”— “Sun.”
My heart’s ideal, your hands I press
And beg of you to be my bride.
My being melts with tenderness;
Affection sweeps me like a tide;
Too long provoked, too long denied,
L’amour burns in me like a flame,
I love you madly . . . And, beside,
The fellows said 1 wasn’t game.
Sweetheart, would you but answer “Yes,”
Romantic panoramas wide
And vistas bright with happiness
Would open out on every side.
So let the blissful knot be tied,
And take my heart, my hand, my name.
My courage may be sorely tried,
But none can say I wasn’t game.
I’ve fought eight duels, I confess;
I’ve scaled Jungfrau without a guide;
I know the bite of steel, the stress
Of glacier and mountainside.
But how can man be satisfied
With risks so dull, with feats so tame?
A greater test must be applied,
I want to show them that I’m game.
Liebchen, I know, whate’er betide, .
You would not see me held to shame.
You must allow a man his pride;
Ach, Gott, I tremble! But I’m game!
N.S.W.
ABIE.


10 for 9 *
20 for 16
n 382
They're Smooth
k and they do not
affect your throat
I
a:
|
ft
CRAVENA
ARE MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS
tipped cigarette
THIS GENERAT
i
/
w
■mm
1
'' ■' v
POLITICAL POINTS
Old, who was Vic. Premier Dunstan’s
deputy, says that while his chief was
abroad he “received 10,000 suggestions
on how to spend money, but not one on
how to raise it.” But surely none of the
politicians who have been known to
take £104,000,000 in taxes out of national
income reckoned at £360,000,000 needs
that sort of knowledge. It comes to
them by instinct.
Lyons, it seems, has decided not to
hasten back to Australia by the air route
—or some air route. Perhaps someone
has been refreshing Joseph’s mind about
State-election and marketing-referendum,
voting in his electorate. Here are the
melancholy figures:
For Against
Joe’s Side. Joe’s Side.
State election 9542 12,627
Marketing referendum .. 4097 14,876
Yes, it does look as if Poor old Joe will
go to rest. But perhaps he will decide
to roost on the Inter-State Commission.
It is alleged that the 1936-37 accounts
of the seven Australian Governments
(which are six Governments too many)
showed a surplus of £10,228,080,
£9,390,000 having been paid into sinking
funds. This might be believed if it
were not a lime-dishonored game of Aus-
tralian Treasurers to charge up what
should be ordinary expenditure to loans,
and to borrow twice the sinking-fund
contributions in any year—more if they
can get it.
Works Minister Semple, apostle of the
anti-wheelbarrow, pro-steam-shovel policy
of the Savage Government, said recently
that Maoriland expenditure on aero-
drome construction would have been cut
by as much as 83 per cent, if modern
plant had been used instead of hand
labor. Wigram aerodrome might have
been done for £15,000; it cost £75,000.
Semple will find the wheelbarrow policy
in full swing on Australian relief works.
Sydney press photographs of the
“rebel” army entering Bilbao show
obvious Spanish soldiers in an obviously
intact city being rapturously greeted—
occasionally embraced —by the inhabi-
tants. This is astonishing, for Sydney
press reports produced the impression
that the “rebels” were chiefly Italians,
Germans and Moors, that Bilbao had
been “razed to the ground,” and that if
it were taken all the “Basques” would
be found buried in the ruins. Appar-
ently there were more Basques among
the attackers than among the defenders.
London “Times” calls Spanish Govern-
ment troops “the Reds.” Franco’s men —
“rebels” to Sydney dailies when they are
not “Fascists” or “mercenaries” —are
insurgents or Nationalists to the “Thun-
derer.” In the “Observer,” soberest and
best-informed of London weeklies, they
have been anti-Reds all along.
At the beginning of the month a £lOO
investment in Stevens’s “Water Board”
loan could be bought in London for £99
7s. 6d. This fact, like the sanction given
by the Loan Council and Casey to the
operation which did so much to cruel
Bruce’s conversion loan, was withheld
from the public that will be expected to
find the annual interest in sterling
(£80,000) out of excess of exports or
London funds if there should be no
excess —which has often been the case.
Menzies got wonderful newspaper pub-
lication for his complaint that “the
moment a man begins to achieve a posi-
tion in public life, every little dirty mind”
looks for an excuse to “slander him.”
At the worst the owners of these dirty
minds give reasons, good and bad, and
stand to be shot at. This is more than
can be said for the Minister, a colleague
of Menzies, who, in the safety of Parlia-
mentary privilege, slandered the Mrs.
Freer now permitted to land in Aus-
tralia because of the effect of the ex-
clusion on Votes.
The disappearance of the American
flying lady moved the Sydney “Stunt”
to protest that “ ‘we’ should not be called
upon to set navies and air forces search-
ing for any scatter-brained person who
merely carries out a stunt”:
We in Australia can remember several
similar occasions on which a good deal of
the taxpayers’ money was spent to rescue
fliers who had become the victims of their
hazardous stunt-flights.
Can anyone in Australia remember any
“similar occasion” on which the lost flier
wasn’t backed by the stunt press?
Partition and corridor, words with no
cheery political significance, figure in the
British Commission’s plan for the settle-
ment of the perennial troubles in
Palestine. Separation of Arabs and Jews
is proposed, the Arabs to have two-
“In several quarters John Bull’s plan for the partition of Palestine is pronounced a
judgment of Solomon.”
And all Israel heard of the judgment which the king had, judged, and they
fcored the king, and they said he was not o Solomon's bootluce.
thirds of the country and the Jews one-
third, with a corridor from Jerusalem to
Jaffa. Each race protests that far too
much is to be given to the other.
There were six men on Britain’s
Palestine Commission —an earl, four
knights and a professor. Travelling occu-
pied a lot of their time, and they had to
take evidence in many languages, yet they
completed their job inside 11 months.
They must be tyros at the royal-commis-
sion game as played in Australia.
When N.S.W. legislative action to pro-
tect Stock Exchange investors was
promised, Minister Old, then acting for
Dunstan, scouted a suggestion that Vic-
torians should receive the same sort of
protection. The Ward and Co. crash
arrived the very next day. Dunstan now
says his Government will “act firmly and
appropriately to safeguard the public.”
Old says nothing.
To the making of Australian Ministers
there is no end. No sooner had Stevens
added a sixteenth to his band than
some Sydney politician discovered that
Canberra would need a full-time Minis-
ter to attend to national insurance. On
that subject Marr, M.H.R., has let him-
self go:
The Australian National Insurance Act
will be the most comprehensive of its
kind that the world has ever seen. It will
leave the critics without a case. The
Australian workers will enjoy a far greater
measure of security than their fellows in
any other part of the world. They will
begin to enjoy the true benefits of full
democracy.
They enjoy some benefits already, such
as free speech and the right of private
judgment on flatulent politicians. But
perhaps when this miracle of legislation
distributes all its blessings they will be in
a position to invest in Marr’s New
Guinea shows and become rich beyond
the dreams of avarice.
A hospital broil at Canberra, which led
to the N.S.W. Hospitals Commission
being borrowed for a sort of inquiry,
appears to have resulted in general hand-
shakes and in an all-round admission that
nobody really meant what anybody was
reported to have said. It doesn’t say
much for Canberra administration that
it should have been deemed necessary to
call in a provincial body (and, inciden-
tally, listen to disparaging remarks from
its chairman on the amount of gossip
and squabbling that goes on at ’Berra)
when the hospital is under the direct
control of the Commonwealth Health De-
partment with a separate Minister —the
Little Digger, no less.
N.S.W. taxpayers were given to under-
stand that they would benefit from taxa-
tion law amendments introduced by
Spooner—Spooner would see that they
did. Many have found that their assess-
ments have gone up substantially, and
they are waiting for Spooner with a poli-
tical axe. Residents drawing income
from Victoria are getting a particularly
raw deal. Under the reciprocal arrange-
ment, they are smitten by Spooner’s so-
called “special” tax, which is about three
times as severe as the Victorian unem-
ployed-relief tax.
A prize for political gall has been
earned by Francis, M.H.R., who claims
to have induced Cabinet to let the State
Governments spend portion of their
petrol-tax allowance on the provision of
fishing havens. Francis and Minister
McLachlan, now appearing as the
doughty champion of the Australian fish-
ing industry, were forced into action by
the long-continued representations of
the Fishermen’s League, spurred on by
its doughty little secretary, D. J. Pothe-
cary. Francis’s most notable contribu-
tion to the discussion was to inform the
League that he didn’t think much of its
policy.
The English “News Review” announces
that so certain are Australians that
“rotund and jolly Premier Lyons is due
for a fall shortly” that they are “confi-
dently prophesying” about his successor.
“Clever Mr. Stevens” is favored:
Clever Mr. Stevens could not leave his
State to come to London for the Corona-
tion and instead sent his chief opponent,
Charles Bruxner, of the Country party.
He has earned himself great prestige by
restoring civil service cuts.'.. .and holds the
best hand.
It is allowed that Mr. Curtin has a
chance, too, but “not such a good one
as Mr. Stevens.”
Since the national sinking fund was
established in 1927-28, the Common-
wealth and States debt has increased by
£180,000,000. At the rate borrowing is
going on (and frenzied taxation accom-
panies it) it won’t be many years before
the country loses all the benefits of the
interest-reduction forced in 1931.
Vic. Premier Dunstan, fresh from the
glitter of the Coronation, said at a civic
reception in Melbourne that there should
be more co-operation between Govern-
ment and municipalities in the provision
of better homes for the people. Accord-
ing to press reports, the city fathers
applauded the observation. As the
City Council is a landlord, it is in a
ready-made position to prove to its
tenants that it isn’t hypocritical.
The public will be glad to learn that,
“as a result of good prices for wool,
wheat and other exported produce,”
“large overseas balances” have been built
up. These—-but let the principal Minis-
terial newspaper continue the story:
have enabled the Government to
convert a part of the external debt into
internal debt. The total external debt in
May, 1937, was about £A89,100,000 against
£A113,900,000 in October, 1936.
But it happened in Argentina, not Aus-
tralia, though all the words quoted in
the larger type, are true of this country.
Commonwealth and States on June 30,
1936, owed £1,255,782,100, of which
£590,120,000 was owed abroad. To this
another £2,000,000 was added in May
by the pretence that it was for the Sydney
Water Board, when it was really for the
N.S.W. Government, which arranges the
Water Board’s finances and policy.
The surprise of the newly-arrived
Director of Fisheries at the neglect of a
blue-finned tuna and pilchard industry
seems to be shared by the skipper of the
fisheries-research vessel. The shoals of
tuna seen from aeroplanes during obser-
vation tours round the Victorian and Tas-
manian coasts were larger, he states,
than any he saw abroad. Canberra com-
ments that, “if” investigation shows large
available supplies of suitable Australian
fish, “an important fisheries industry may
be established.” What Australia needs
are fewer “ifs” and “ands” and more
pots and pans with cooked fish in them.
Friends of Brisbane’s ever-borrowing
Lud Mayor Jones are viewing with dark
suspicion a proposal to name a valley in
the Carnarvon Ranges “Aljon,” as a
complimentary portmanteau-combination
of his Christian name and surname. They
don’t mind anything in the way of streets
or drinking fountains, but something
“with a depth of 3000 feet, and overhang-
ing foliage through which it is possible
to see the stars in daylight,” as the pro-
poser described it, smacks somewhat of
camouflaged anti-Labor propaganda.


L —EFT SWING
f R* r-r-r-r-r-right Swing! "
KILT DRILL.
“Kilts have been issued to the lads of Perth's Scottish regiment, the Cameron Highlanders; but until they learn the swing they will wear their kilts only in the privacy
of the Drill Hall.”


Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House-
holders’ Comprehensive, Workers’
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
ECONOMY DEPENDS ON
SPARKING PLUGS
fr
m
w./
rd.
*2
G
&
f/f/}
S/A
y//.
■m
-YOU CAN
DEPEND ON
Champions
ECONOMY always results when new Champions are
installed. These better plugs give stronger sparks. They
get the full value from the fuel. Thus, fuel goes farther
and you soon save more than the cost of the plugs.
An Empire product made in Windsor, Canada
RE-VITALIZE
YOUR CAR
WITH
Champions
Obtainable at all leading
automotive supply dealers
PERSONAL ITEMS
Belated official recognition—a medal
of the Order of the British Empire for
Gallantry—has been given to Captain P.
G. Taylor for one of the bravest deeds
in the history of aviation. When Smithy
and he were crossing the Tasman in
May, 1935, an accident stopped one of
the engines; Taylor climbed out of the
cockpit, clambered along a wing and
transferred oil from the disabled engine
to the others, enabling the ’plane to limp
back to Australia. Smithy logged him
as a hero. He was, and this medal is an
inadequate recognition of the fact.
Taylor, who was with Smithy in several
of his epic flights—he wrote a stirring
book on the great flight from Australia
to U.S.A. —is still flying, and is in busi-
ness in Sydney.
Sydney gets an Australian, Dr. Nor-
man Gilroy, as its Roman Catholic
Coadjutor Archbishop in place of Arch-
bishop Sheehan, who resigned the posi-
tion recently. Born in Sydney 41 years
ago, Dr. Gilroy has been only 12 years
In Dr. Sheehan’s Shoes.
a priest. Before that he was with the
post-office, and he had a part in the Great
War as wireless operator on one of the
transports that took the Anzacs to Gal-
lipoli. Three years at the Propaganda
College in Rome finished off his studies
for the priesthood, and he filled in the
years to ’35 in various secretaryships, one
to Apostolic Delegate Arch. Cattaneo.
Then he went to South Aus. as Bishop
of Port Augusta. In his new job he has
the right of succession to Archbishop
Kelly. Sydney should like his straight-
forwardness. His appointment came
from Rome, a recognition of the ability
of Australian priests. Next step, the
creation of an Australian Cardinal.
Australia’s prospective naval C. in C.,
Vice-Admiral Ragnar Colvin, belongs to
an Indian service family of the type
which gave Kipling the model for the
Chinns in The Tomb of His Ancestors.
His wife, a daughter of Brigadier-
General H. F. Kays, a veteran regular,
has similar blood in her veins. Her
grandfather was Auckland Colvin,
K.C.5.1., once financial member of the
Viceroy’s Council and son of a Lieut.-
Governor of Agra. The Vice-Admiral,
who fought at Jutland and has com-
manded the Second Battle Squadron, will
come to Australia fresh from the head-
ship of Greenwich Royal Naval College
and the War College, which position he
has held for three years.
One of the world’s greatest teachers of
the blind was Harry Hedger, who died
last week. A Tasmanian, he was a
doughty footballer in Victoria before
heading for Sydney in 1880 to teach four
pupils in the Industrial Blind Institution
shortly after it was established. In 1893
he became manager, and stayed there till
the end. He devised a means to teach
the blind to run footraces, invented in-
struments to teach them trades and built
up one of the biggest Braille libraries in
the world. He twice went abroad to give
the benefit of his work to other countries,
and when men came home blind from the
war his service to them was a godsend.
His son Stanley, whom he trained to
carry on, is now in charge of the Vic-
torian institution.
Michael Burke, former M.L.A. and
Sydney alderman, whose brogue was rich
and physique magnificent, has gone at 72.
Burke was fully equipped to write the
classic on pre-selection ballots. His
finest achievement in this direction was
giving fellow-Laborite Pat Minahan a
clean pair of heels for the Belmore selec-
tion in 1916. Minahan averred that
Burke’s work on that occasion closely
approached genius, and Minahan knew
his onions. Michael emerged from a
royal commission with his urbanity unim-
paired, remarking after one gruelling
day, “I gave them something to go on
with, boys, I did that.” In the Assembly
he sought the call from Mr. “Spiker” on
the highest possible note, and, while
always manifesting ardor, his speeches
were singularly free from nastiness. He
spent his last years away from the
shadows of Parliament and Town Hall
in a snug little home in Tubby Stevens’s
stronghold of Croydon.
Coming back to Australia for the
New Education Fellowship conference,
Frank Debenham, Professor of Geo-
graphy at Cambridge, is a King’s School
boy, son of an Anglican clergyman and
a graduate of Sydney University. He
was geologist to the Scott Antarctic
expedition of 1910-13, and in the war
was a major in the Oxford and Bucks
Light Infantry. The professor is bring-
ing with him a translation of Bellings-
hausen’s “Voyage to the Antarctic and
Round the World in 1819-21.” The ac-
count of this important voyage was pub-
lished in Russia in 1825, and has not
yet appeared in English. Bellingshausen
was twice in Sydney Harbor with his
ships in 1820, and visited Maoriland and
various Pacific islands.
“Chidge”—or, to be formal, Mr. Olivei
Chidgey, official messenger to the Prime
Minister —recently completed his 25th
year of Commonwealth service, and fol-
lowed it up with a 40th birthday.
“Chidge’s” job includes infinitely more
than its title suggests, and nobody except
the personified soul of discretion and
efficiency could hold it for a month. It
ranges from safe-keeping of Cabinet
papers which the rival camp would give
an eye to peep at, to dieting a dyspeptic
statesman and seeing that Government
leaders never miss trains, whether there
is any train or not. He is one of the
very few unelected individuals who regu-
larly attend Cabinet meetings. The most
striking proof of his peculiar genius is
that he kept the job for years under
Billy Hughes.
“Teddy” (E. J.) Kavanagh, the new
additional Apprenticeship Commissioner,
was secretary of the Labor Council of
N.S.W. in the days of its greatest stlength.
He was one of the nine Legislative
Council appointments made in 1912 by
the first N.S.W. Labor Government, and
during the Storey-Dooley regime was
Vice-President of the Executive Council.
Apprenticeship has always been his par-
ticular interest; he was chairman of the
Labor Council’s Apprenticeship Inquiry
back in 1904. In his youthful days he
had a useful pair of hands in the ring.
Frank J. Farrell, a cheery Maorilander
now touring Australia’s eastern States,
mixes motor-trading at Hamilton with
farming in the district. He has a 150-
acre section at Horotiu, which was scrub-
covered and weed-infested in 1920, but
was transformed into a solid mat of Eng-
lish grasses by 1928, and wintered 1300
big sheep, including 680 breeding ewes,
120 dry ewes and 500 wethers, that year.
Farrell a few years ago showed publicity
men their job by getting Waikato’s first
bulk petrol-wagon a civic reception, com-
plete with band and Mayor!
Born at Carcoar (N.S.W.), educated at
Fort-street, Sydney, and Brisbane Gram-
mar School, and now passed on at 87,
P. P. Agnew pioneered many early post
offices in Queensland, opening that at
Burketown, on the Gulf of Carpentaria,
in 1887 and later serving for 33 years
at Dunwich, in Moreton Bay, till he
retired. A competent amateur actor who
could have done well on the professional
stage, he wrote a number of songs which
were popular in Queensland years ago,
and transmitted much of his artistic
talent to his son Garnet, whos black-
and-white work in the Brisbane press
has been well known for a generation.
The Waite Research Institute at Adel-
aide recently benefited to the tune of
£25,000 through the public spirit of John
T. Mortlock and his mother, who stipu-
lated that the money is to be used to
investigate the problem of soil erosion,
which has devastated thousands of
square miles in inland Australia. The
gift is in memory of Mortlock’s brother
Ranson. Mortlock, now in his early
Benefactor.
forties, is a South Australian native, born
at Mintaro. When he was 19 his father
died, and he took over the management
of the family estate, which includes
Yudnapinna (Port Augusta), Martindale
merino stud and Yalluna, at Tumby Bay.
He is a racegoer and yachtsmen, his
66-footer Martindale being one of the
largest in S.A. waters.
Veteran sportsman Jack Noel has
come back into the limelight in Adelaide.
About four years older than George
Giffen, he was one of S.A.’s best early
experts in both cricket and football, but
his present existence had been over-
looked by many till he was farewelled by
the Wood and Son co. after 57 years in
its service, mainly as Customs and
shipping agent at Port Adelaide.
Hugh Main’s projected retirement
from politics brings Colin Archibald
Sinclair into the N.S.W. Ministry to
assist the Premier and the Minister
for Lands. Sinclair, in his second term
as C.P. member for Namoi, went from
New Cabinet Minister.
Armidale School into Sydney Uni, where
he took his B.A. and, while articled to
the Minter Simpson firm, his LL.B. But
he preferred the land to the law, and
with his three younger brothers has con-
trolled Waterloo pastoral property in the
Glen Innes district for over quarter of
a century. He played a big part in
the formation of the Cricket Board of
Control, of which he was secretary for
some years.
Leonard Mann, who is secretary of the
Vic. Employers’ Federation and has con-
ducted the employers’ case in the last
three Federal basic-wage hearings, has
found time to write three good novels.
The latest, Murder in Sydney, is the
Book Society’s July choice and won high
praise from Hugh Walpole. It is being
published in the U.S. and Australia. A
Wesley College boy, the author is a law
graduate of Melbourne University; he
is 41, and spent 1917 and 1918 in France
with the Diggers. His first novel, Flesh
in Armour, which was highly praised
in The Bulletin by the late John Dailey,
won the 1932 Australian Literary Society
Prize.
Preached his last sermon prior to
retirement, Archdeacon Rawlings, for 30
years rector of Narrandera parish
(N.S.W.). The regard in which this fine
old churchman is held was proved by
the roll-up all faiths —at his final
service. Forty of the Archdeacon’s years
have been Australian. His first parish
was Wilcannia, a piece of country 200
miles by 300. Those who heard his final
sermon included a dozen descendants of
the pioneers he knew when he first
launched out in this country.
The Victorian Police Department,
following English precedent in appoint-
ing a legal adviser to the police, has
chosen T. F. E. Mornane, a Sydney Uni-
versity man who was admitted to the
Victorian Bar a couple of years ago.
Now 32, Mornane appeared to assist the
Royal Commission on School Textbooks
and the more recent one that looked into
the Wonthaggi disaster.


v:
to
''
Li
v
u
Avoid the winter cold, and in addition to a delightful sea-voyage,
see the Mekes (Native Dances), Fire Walkers, Native Bazaar, Display
of Hibiscus Blooms, Race Meetings, Trips to the Coral Reef, and
the Island Night's Entertainment at the Grand Pacific Hotel.
R.M.S. STRATHAIRD
leaves Sydney
August 20
FIRST SALOON FROM 20 GUINEAS
TOURIST CLASS FROM 13 GUINEAS
Free of Exchange
ALL PARTICULARS FROM THE COMPANY’S AGENTS
u-..
PLEASURE CRUISES


BLACK & WHITE WHISKY "PLURRY GOOD'”
* “Kinshela” consisted of pulling the bottom
blade back so as to obtain a wider cut. The
“knockers” had to be fileti away, with the result
that the heels of the blades overlapped when
closed.
“Mandipa”: The thresher gang had
put in the usual two hours’ work before
breakfast when the tucker-cart hove in
sight. Just as the tailboard was dropped
the whistle blew, and away went the
horse. Stew was on the menu that
morning, and the pot tipped over with
the first bound of the horse, the stew
pouring on to the ground, averaging two
pints of gravy and a spud to the yard.
Knowing it would take some time to
prepare another breakfast, 17 hungry
men made the best of a bad
job. Salvaging bread from the
wrecked cart, they tackled the
stew where it spread. As each
man cleaned up a few feet of
it he would run to the front
of the line and start again ;
all except one old Scotchman,
who was lagging behind.
“What’s up, Jock?” called his
mate. “Hoots, mon,” Jock replied, “I’m
a’ reet —I’ve foond a coo-track!”
* * * *
“Cockyson”: My advice, to those
hankering for a little farming experience
is to hunt round for a cocky with at
least a German name. Whatever his
faults, the German cocky feeds his men.
The fare may be plain, but it will be
abundant and well-cooked. Carl knows
that hard work can’t be knocked out of
an empty belly; therefore he fills his
own thoroughly and sees that his work-
men and his horses have theirs well-
filled, too. But the German is a grafter,
and he expects everyone to earn his
tucker and a bit to spare, as he and his
family always try to do.
* * * *
“Harry N.”: I can claim to have had
an Abo. par. of mine “adopted” by a
politician. Said par. related to the versa-
tility of Gippsland, and a couple of
weeks after it appeared in print I heard
it broadcast, almost word for word,
from 3GI, the Gippsland regional station.
It was attributed to a Parliamentary
gentleman, no mention being made of
The Bulletin. This week it appeared in
a leading Victorian weekly, still almost
in its original form, still accredited to
the worthy M.L.A., and still without ac-
knowledgment of the paper in which it
first appeared.
* * * *
“Hanko”: Jackie slouched casually up
to the bar. and slapped sixpence down.
“I’ll have a beer,” he said. “Now,
now” Bung began, and then the sight
of a bottle of peppermint cordial gave
him a brainwave. “But Oi’ll tell yerz
phwat,” he went on confidingly ; “Oi’ll let
ye have a gin for y’r sixpence.” Jackie
snapped up his zack and made for the
door. “Don’t wantit gin,” he snorted;
“wantit trink.”
“Scrubber”: Either “Herpeton” is
wrong in his statement that “no snake
is immune from the poison of any of
his kind” (B. 23/6/’37) or snakeskin is
tougher than it looks. Alone, and in
company with the man responsible for
Melbourne Zoo’s Australian Section
(D. H. Fleay), I have caught many snakes,
and seen many caught, by means of a
snake-stick. In spite of care they are
occasionally hurt by the firm grasp of
the stick. This invariably results in
violent activity on the part of the snake
—biting itself, the stick and, later, the
other occupants of the carrying-bag. In
our experience this has never resulted in
any deaths, whether because the skin is
not pierced or because of immunity to
the venom, I am not prepared to say,
though I incline towards the latter expla-
nation.
“R.J.S.”: “If you don’t want to get
the sack in a hurry,” said the station
manager, “don’t use the ’phone for trivial
conversation.” “Right-oh,” agreed the
boundary-rider. For a fortnight he suf-
fered the loneliness of his solitary hut.
On the fifteenth successive hot day he
“Hey, Dobbin, leave a bit for a bird .”
rolled up his blankets; then he turned
the handle of the ’phone long and
vigorously. “That the manager?” he in-
quired. “Well, the wind ’as wafted
acrorst the old grey-box near the ’ut!”
He grinned appreciatively at the scorch-
ing blasphemy from the other end of the
line. At the first pause he continued:
“And a leaf fell orf.”
:J: *. * *
“Marsh”: I won’t argue whether Tin-
nenburra station (s.-w. Q.) is the largest
shearing-shed or not, though Big Burr-
wong, with 101 stands, had one more
than Tyson’s shed. But I do know
which is the most elaborate and up-to-
date in the world Isis Downs (W.Q.)
walks in. Built of cement, this shed has
a semicircular board and electric shear-
ing machinery, with special lighting to
preclude loss of time on dull late after-
noons. Wool-pressing and -loading are
facilitated by hydraulic power, and if the
suggestion of a rouseabout is adopted
there’ll be electric irons for the shearers
to put creases in their dungarees.
* * * *
“Groper”: Reading that par. about pigs
growing an extra pair of ribs almost
makes me believe that I was once present
at a grave miscarriage of justice. It was
in the Perth Police Court, and a meat
inspector testified that, going into a cer-
tain butchery, he found a dressed car-
cass which counted one set of ribs over
that which Nature gives to the bovine.
He concluded it was a dressed horse,
bringing proof that the horse has just
that number of ribs. The Bench fell in
with his ideas, and the fine was a corker.
But, now that I hear about those pigs
Still, it would have taken something to
induce me to sample a steak off that over-
ribbed carcass.
:I< :]: * *
“Salmon Gums”: Recent comments on
rural Australians as trenchermen recall
the first cocky I worked for: a gradu-
ate of Edinburgh University and a vet.,
who had left a good practice to become
a gardener. His fad was dieting. Two
meals a day, he held, were ample, for
any man. Too frequent feeds were the
cause of all the indigestion and most of
the world’s strife. At my first break-
fast I was gloomily expecting a long spell
between meals. Around 10 a.m. a coo-ee
floated over from the house, and he.
dropped his hoe like a hot spud. “That’s
mornin’-tea,” he said; “c’mon.” At
dinner my lack of appetite caused some
concern —morning tea, I forgot to say,
consisted of two pannikins of tea, a few
scones and some cakes —and I had diffi-
culty in convincing them of my good
health. Afternoon-tea wasn’t much to
speak of —a few slices of bread and
butter and a jug of coffee —but tea that
night made up for it. I begged to be
excused supper on the ground that I was
turning in early. I stayed with him three
years, and he never ceased to impress on
me the virtue of abstention from tucker
and to regret that I hadn’t a “realla
proper respec’ f’r y’r belly.”
% ❖ ❖
“Moe”: Tell “Wandi” (B. 30/6/’37)
that “blackfellows’ bread” grows out-
wards, starting with one or two small
sagolike grains; these form other grains,
and so the. roughly circular mass grows
in size. It may be parasitic upon the
roots of big eucalypts; I have found
them, ranging in size from a marble to
a football, under the roots of trees that
had been blown down. Several had be-
come wedged between close-growing roots.
Polyporus mylittoe, though it may have
been attractive to the blacks, has little
to commend it as an edible; leather
would be tastier and almost as easy to
chew. But it can be fashioned into orna-
ments of real beauty. It will take a high
polish, and the sagolike grains give a
mottled appearance, akin to figured
timber, but the polished fungus yields
an impression of depth that is seldom
equalled in wood.
“Harry N.”: It’s time this myth about
the trout being so incredibly shy was ex-
ploded. It is the boldest and most vora-
cious of fish, with an appetite ranging
from smaller specimens of its own species
to any drifting flotsam that looks at all
palatable. I’ve met anglers creeping
cautiously along trout streams, staggering
under rods, reels and landing-nets, their
shirt-fronts ablaze with multicolored
flies, and their baskets have been nearly
always empty at the end of the day.
Next to natural bait, used in a common-
sense manner, the artificial minnow
stands alone as a lure, and a man can
can pick up the knack of spinning with
it in a half-hour. Armed with a cheap
rod and reel and a couple of spinners
I’ll back myself to catch more trout than
"experts” with a tenner’s worth of gear.
* * * *
“Old-timer”: Despite “thousands of
pastoralists willing to wager” that wedge-
tails carry off lambs (B. 30/6/’37), I’m
with “Notaden.” A good many years in
eagle country failed to provide me with
any definite proof of the charge, though
I heard of plenty of instances. “Skull
Creek” himself makes no claim to having
seen the big bird in the act; he puts the
onus on “thousands” of graziers. My
experience of graziers is about equal to
any man’s, I suppose, and I’ve heard a
few of their yarns, but I’ll buy the drinks
if “S.C.” can produce two prepared to
swear on oath to having witnessed eagles
carry off lambs.
“Stralia”: If eaglehawk extermination
conunues at the present rate the next few
years will see a substantial rise in the
dingo population. Grown dogs are safe,
but the pups prove a tempting titbit for
the big birds. The dingo is a match for
man’s ingenuity—the eagle isn’t. Hence
the eagle is being exterminated, to the
added security of the dog. Where the
eagle has been thinned out the dog has
already begun to show up again.
“Haybancl”: The fox is credited with
more brains than he possesses. Still, he
is not a fool. When rabbits are poisoned
for their pelts a fox will eat the head.
When they are trapped or shot he ignores
the head and deals with the liver, heart
and kidneys. Shot and poisoned bunnies
may be almost side by side, but the fox
never makes a mistake. An infallible
way to poison is to suspend a dead bird
six feet or more from the ground. Be-
neath it spread shandied treacle and
strychnine. As the mystified fox inspects
the view from various angles his feet
collect the mixture, and therefrom in due
course he licks his epitaph.
* * * *
“Quark”: Bad news is to hand for
the Widow Watson. This good lady
arrived some time ago from furrin parts
and, though not forbidden to land by
Paterson, M.P., or anyone else, struck
misfortune from the start. She was one
of a party of American edible frogs im-
ported to Australia, but by the time the
party arrived numbers were reduced to
the lady referred to. Another consign-
ment was ordered from the U.S.A., and
it was hoped that this would include a
husband for the batrachian Mrs. Gum-
midge. Her hopes were dashed when
only four of the new touring party
landed and these turned out to be a pair
of married couples. However, there
does not seem reason for despair. Surely
Australia can furnish some strapping
young Australian frog who will make as
good a husband as any importation from
the U.S.A.
“De Shuff”: Attempts now being made
to establish an edible-frog hatchery in
Australia are not the first. The idea was
tried out more than 40 years ago in Mel-
bourne by L. L. Smith, a medico and
connoisseur of table delicacies. He im-
ported from Paris a stud of 25 healthy
grenouilles, but nothing would induce
them to go a-wooing. After putting up
with their gammon for about 18 months
the disgusted L.L. provided the spinach
and invited half a dozen friends to expe-
dite their remains (on savory toast) on
their last earthly journey.
“Kellick”: Whenever I read of a shark
attack I think of Whitsunday Is., Barrier
Reef. We were anchored some two
cables from shore, and one of our num-
ber decided to swim from the beach to
the ship. Half-way across he threw up
his hands and let out a mighty roar.
Our hair stood on end and then we
laughed. He was standing in 18 inches
of water, after having landed on a lump
of coral. He reckons he is proud to have
discovered a new reef; nobody ever
mentions shark to him.
* * * *
“Mulgo”: No need to go to South
Africa to sample biltong (B. 23/6/’37);
this sort of preserved meat has long
been used in the central parts of Aus-
tralia. Away from stations and haunts
of wild cattle, prospectors and others
use kangaroo meat as a reserve ration.
Strips about 9in. long and 3in. to 4in.
wide are cut from the hindquarters ot
a ’roo or wallaby and dried over a
smoky fire, salt being added when ob-
tainable. The bush smokehouse is just
a sheet of bark, stood up in the shape
it comes off the tree, with a small square
cut out at the bottom of the cylinder to
facilitate firing. The meat is hung around
the top and a piece of bark is laid across,
leaving a vent at each side. Ducks, tur-
keys and other game are smoke-dried in
the same way.
THOSE OLD BLADES.
Machines, 1 heard a man maintain,
In shearing-sheds engender speed;
The question of financial gain
Is shelved; men toil with might and main
O’er wrinkly cobblers; sweat and strain
With energy devoid of greed.
What blade-sheds lacked, he said, was clear —
The impetus of atmosphere.
He’s dreaming. Anyone who shore
Tn blade-sheds of a bygone day
Will tell you what men labor for,
Till backs are stiff and limbs are sore,
Is cash —just that and nothing more.
They’ll tell you, too, more money lay
In sheds when “snobs” alone could show
A fleece that reached front nose to toe.
Bar “kinshela,”* no blademen sought
For artificial aids to pace;
The spirit of the guns who fought
Each other for the lead was caught
By all the slow men, since, methought,
There was a fear in every case,
An apprehension of the dread
Disgrace of having “drummed” the shed.
In days of blade-sheds, ere the sun
Had bid the bush the time o’ day,
The hours of toil (when shearers won
Those cheques like blankets) had begun,
And lasted till the light was done
And sunset’s lengthening shadows lay
On men still sweating ’neath the spell
Which bade them try to “beat the bell.”
Let those who sneer at hand-shears scan
The litter science leaves behind,
And, marking it, predict the span
Of life of anything which man
Considers perfect—if they can.
Who knows but what the years may find
Machines upon the rubbish heap
And shearers feeling fairly cheap?
QUEENSLAND.
M. K. BENNETT.


“Hayband”: A sheepman once in-
formed me that no two sheep are alike
in every particular, and that if he once
studied a sheep he would thereafter
recognise the particular animal —in a
stealing case later he proved it. But the
most remarkable case of identification
occurred in Cowra (N.S.W.). Geese
were concerned, and on the identification
issue the P.M. was inclined to bundle
the case out of court. Plaintiff’s, coun-
sel said that his client was prepared
to stand the test and leave it to the Court
to judge. The geese were thereupon in-
spected. Plaintiff picked thirteen, and
then announced that they had an in-
delible-ink mark under a wing. “It will
be found that none of the others are so
marked,” he asserted. Nor were they.
$
“Phut”: Seems a pity if sawdust
around the mills is merely to be burnt
(B. 9/6/’37). There’s nothing to equal
it for mixing with sand to make crossings
over bad rivers for cars ; it binds like
cement. Instance Homestead Creek
(N.Q.), out from Charters Towers. That
creek was a fair cow ; a couple of hun-
dred yards across, with hillocks in the
middle, and with a depth of sand that
stuck more cars than crossed it. A
couple of drayloads of sawdust was
sprinkled along the crossing, less than a
couple of tons all told. Since it worked
into the sand a bit I’ve crossed and re-
crossed on top gear.
* * *
“W.”: For the enlightenment of
“Naturala” (B. 30/6/’37), the wild
horses mentioned by me were not “con-
fined to paddocks”—there are no pad-
docks in that country. Occasionally the
brumbies get snowed in on the Kiandra
“An y ’ thought y' could play poker!"
(N.S.W.) plains, where the snow is so
deep that their existence may not be sus-
pected, even by the hardy mailman who
“runs the mail” on snowshoes through
the winter months, his only guide the
black-painted tips of guide-poles set in
by a thoughtful department every five
chains or so along the route. The town
of Kiandra is so completely hidden
under its blanket of snow that in a
“good” winter it might easily be missed
altogether but for the wisps of smoke
coming from the residents’ chimneys.
Tunnels are cut from homes to stores
and pubs, and business goes on much
the same as usual.
* # * t-
“Nordbo”: The contrariness of things!
An orange-tree grew just outside a
friend’s property near Cairns (N.Q.).
Thinking it would be more satisfactory
to have it inside his fence, he trans-
planted it. But when, after many weeks
of careful tending, it showed no sign
of sprouting fresh shoots, he concluded it
was dead, dug it up and replanted it in
the original hole. There it grew and
now bears a fine crop of oranges. A
female tree, I suspect.
sji Jfc H* %
“Plat”: Camped in heavy wriggler-
country, I wasn’t surprised when a voice
from down by the roadside fence yelled
“Bring a stick! Snake!” When I’d gone
to the rescue, my visitor climbed down
and thanked me. Joe
was left stretched out
on the ground. Re-
turning to his car an
hour or so later, the
visitor called out,
“Hey! this snake’s got
two tails! ” I ran down
and hurriedly dis-
patched Joe’s missus,
who, but for the ex-
treme tip of her tail,
was length for length
along her mate’s body.
That seems to be a
peculiarity among
browns.
* * *
“Questo”: I don’t
know how far the roots
of Mitchell grass will
go down for water (B.
30/6/’37), but when I
sank a well in an old
lucerne paddock on the
Lockyer Creek near Gatton (Q.), and
stopped at 30 feet, many of the, lucerne
roots, although getting pretty fine, went
down beyond that.
* * * *
“Cooramin”: While South Africa has
large plantations of wattle-trees, grown
originally from Australian seed, our
natural supplies are being cut out. Be-
sides its bark, so much used for tan-
ning, this tree offers another potential
industry, since the American gum-chew-
ing habit has taken hold here. Raw
wattle gum has long been used by bush
people, particularly children. Many
other members of the acacia family pro-
duce gum in large quantities which, with
a little treatment, is superior to the im-
ported mixture. Wattle gum was once
sold in Sydney shops fresh # picked from
the trees, it is a clear substance, palat-
able, and could be used in confectionery.
Each tree, by nicking the bark here and
there, will produce a couple of pounds,
easily picked off with the fingers when
set. The nicking does not injure the tree
nor spoil the bark, and many crops of
gum can be taken before the fleece is
stripped from the adult tree. After strip-
ping, the timber is useful for many pur-
poses besides fuel.
“Notaden”: Probably the only Aus-
trahan animal of which there is no sped-
men in any museum is the big striped
“wild cat” of the forests and ranges of
coastal N.Q. It has been reported from
parts of Cape York, the Bellenden Ker
country, the Tully, Bloomfield and Dain-
tree rivers. Local abos. feared the beast,
as it was said to spring from trees on
passers-by and was more than a match
for a man. Reliable observers have de-
“Give it a leg-up , lady”
scribed it as twice as large as the biggest
spotted “tiger-cat” and fiercer. The, skin,
skull and skeleton of one of these very
rare animals would bring the captor a
tidy sum from any museum, a preserved
specimen with internal organs complete
a tidier one, and a live one competitive
offers from the world’s biggest zoos if
the Customs authorities would allow it to
leave Australia.
* * * *
“Hanko”: If “Puffinus” is trying to
tell us that the northern kookaburra is
a better and heartier laugher than the
southern bird (B. 30/6/’37) I’ll refute his
contention with every jab in my nib. The
northern fowl may have the laugh on his
southern relative for bulk and wing de-
coration, but when it comes, to express-
ing hilarity drab Dacelo gigas can out-
giggle him with a tolerant smile.
* * * *
“8.N.G.”: As an instance of longevity,
an English paper mentions a South
American parrot whose speech no Indian
could understand, the bird having ac-
quired it from a race long since extinct.
This is no traveller’s tale. Songs sung
in remotest Papua are similarly meaning-
less to present-day native vocalists. They
have been handed down from their first
singers countless ages ago until only the
airs remain to-day. The jargon accom-
panying them is quite unlike the tongue
now in use, and has no more meaning to
the modern Papuan than our tum-ti-tum-
di-da.
“Billy See”: It grieves me to see the
noble wombat disparaged, as in recent
Abo. pars. Out east of Edjudina (W.A.) I
dropped on “Wombat Mick.” Mick was
an old-timer from Gippsland working his
way back across the continent. He had
an idea about Lasseter’s lost reef or
something similar, but he didn’t waste
time sinking shafts and digging costeens
like us other poor mutts. Having realised
two natural facts—that gold reefs invari-
ably run north and south, and that the
wombat’s strongest instinct is the homing
one —Mick, coming to a likely-looking
ridge, would set the animal at it. Obey-
ing the call of far-off Gippsland, the
deluded creature would have a tunnel
straight through in no time. Solacing it
with a few bardies and a scrap of damper,
Mick would then chain it up while he
sampled the tunnel at leisure. He hadn’t
struck anything really good when I left
him, but he was optimistic. He should
have been heard of round Adelaide by
this, unless the ’bat is having a go at
Ayer’s Rock, which would take some
excavating even for an animal like
Mick’s.
“W.P.T.”: A bush pedlar along
N.S.W.’s South Coast did a tidy trade
in perfume which he distilled from bush
leaves. Some of his scents were quite
good. His best-seller was boronia, and
nex't to that a perfume he made from the
leaves of the musk plant, which grows
in profusion on Big Jack mountain.
* =l= * *
“Cleveland”: Ancient ridge and furrow
(B. 30/6/’37)? Many years ago sugar
was grown quite close to Brisbane where
now thickly-populated suburbs exist. St.
Lucia, where the new Queensland Uni-
versity buildings are to arise, is a case in
point. Ridge and furrow of the cane
cultivation were easily visible under the
grass there, though fifty years or more
had gone since cane was cultivated there-
about.
“ Cheladon ”: Let me congratulate
“Carapace” (B. 30/6/’37) on teaching
sea-turtles to eat fish and flesh. Hitherto
it has been the impression among
naturalists that the turtle is a strict
vegetarian. If “C.’s” experiments in
converting the beasts to carnivores bear
investigation he is in a fair way to make
a fortune. Turtles can be bred for the
market and an assured export trade
established with Europe, where the
creatures are regarded as the last word
in gastronomical fodder.
“Swagger”: Going round to the wood-
heap I noticed our semi-kelpie gazing
upwards at a minah on the clothesline.
I called to him, but he gazed stolidly at
the minah, which moved its head in a
circular motion, its eyes glittering, appar-
ently holding the dog fascinated. That
Rover should take no notice of me was
strange enough, but, stranger still, he
remained gazing at where the minah
had been after the clod I hurled had
scared the bird off. I’d like to see that
bird and a snake trying to put it over
each other.
THE GREAT UNDONE.
The dragon and eke the unicorn
Are easy marks for the artist. He
Can limn the one from hoof to horn
Or sketch the other to a T.
An elf or a fairy, fancy-free
He can conjure out of his mind, you bet,
But there’s still one lock where he lacks a
key-
Has anyone drawn a bunyip yet?
The mermaids scientists laugh to scorn,
Who comb their tresses beneath the sea ;
The centaur cantering through the thorn;
Old Pan gone dotty over the lea —
For all of these he's a recipe,
Though devil a one he’s ever met:
But when .and for whatsoever fee
Has an artist featured a bunyip yet?
A phoenix, once again reborn;
A dryad hiding behind a tree;
A nymph afoot in the dewy morn,
A , satyr slumbering off a spree—
They’re all dead easy, you’ll agree.
You might buy for a bargain price the set.
But where In Australia, answer me,
Has anyone painted a bunyip yet?
No matter though R.A. his rating be,
And his name be one you will ne’er forget,
Neither for Fame nor for £ s. d.
Has anyone done a bunyip yet!
N.S.W.
O'GOOG.


INSTANT IGNITION
>s<
Price 5/« each.
Made in Australia under
Bosch Expert Supervision
PVROX
LICENCE BOSCH
SPARK PLUGS
ADAMS’ (TATTERS ALL’S) HOTEL
259 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 454 GEORGE STREET.
Rooms, 6/- and 8/- per day; Breakfast, Table d’Hote or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE PUBLIC DINING ROOMS.
Lunch from 12 noon (Sunday, 12.45 p.m.), Din ner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday, 5.45 p.m.).
Tables or Seats may be reserved by ’Phone. M 4601.
Who Is Your Trustee?
Dues he possess the knowledge and experience which tlie acceptance of that office
d email ds?
Permanent Trustee Co.
OF N.S.W., LTD
Incorporated 1888 to act as Executors and Trustees.
This Company offers unexcelled trust service, combining security and experience
with efficient administration.
Write for explanatory Booklet, sent free, on request
Directors*
O. E. FRIEND F. N. YARWOOD SIR THOMAS BUCKLAND
CECIL II DOYT.E (Chairman) W. 0. HULL
J. W. BARNES, Manager. E. V. T. WHITTLE, Asst. Mgr.
23-25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
|j YEARS’
J GUARANTEf
lm
. jr
INVINCIBLE
MARINE
ENGINES.
20 four-cycle sizes: 3 to 100 horse-
power in I, 2,4, 6 and 8 cylinder
models. Write for illustrated Cata-
logue to-day.
INVINCIBLE MOTORS PTY., LTD.,
53 Nortli George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
The WILDCAT
COLUMN
Bank of New Zealand
Mortgage
t — Shares,
Govt.’s Ord. 6 and
Mar., Profit. Divs. 14J p.c. 'll p.c. Reserves.
£ £,£,£> £
1927.. 847,671 231,250 537,500 3,064 3,609,655
Profit on sale of securities, £73.611 3,683,166
Premiums on new shares, £825 .. 3,683,991
1928.. 841.878 231,250 537,500 24,594 3,732,525
Inner reserves disclosed, £212,005.. 3,944,530
1929.. 912,954 231,250 537,500 46,143 4,042,591
1930.. 948,534 231,250 637,500 49,218 4,173,157
1931.. 845,814 231,250 537,500 49,218 4,201,002
1932.. 587,023 231,250 537,500 49,219 3,970,056
11 1 p.c.
1933.. 594,270 173,437 421,875 49,219 3,919,705
10 p.c.
1934.. 573,033 150,000 375,000 49,219 3,918.609
1935.. 578,748 150,000 375,000 49,219 3,923,138
1936.. 565,181 150,000 375,000 49,219 3,914,100
1937.. 600,008 150,000 375,000 49,219 3,939,889'
For the 12 months covered by the
latest accounts, the total value of Maori-
land’s external trade (exports and im-
ports combined ;= £N.Z. 107,855,000, up
£N.Z. 19,740,000) was a record. Largely
because of this and the Government’s ex-
tensive public-works policy, internal trade
livened, too. There is more money about,
and bank debits, clearings and net note
circulation are all at much higher levels
than they were a year ago. Much of the
gain to traders from increased turnover,
however, has been gobbled by the tax-
gatherer and rising costs, following legis-
lation that reduced hours and lifted
wages. It was the lift in export income
that enabled the Government to get away
with its experiments without, thus far,
serious mishap to local trade or the cur-
rency. Costs are still on the up-grade,
and a lot will depend upon the level at
which they flatten out.
The Government and its Reserve Bank
have made inroads into the activities of
the trading banks, whose business in the
Dominion is now definitely less profitable
than it used to be.. The Reserve Bank
took over the Government accounts, pre-
viously handled by the B.N.Z. for 70
years, in 1934. It also acquired the trad-
ing banks’ gold, paying for it in paper
it the statutory price of the metal, became
the sole note-issuing authority in the
Dominion, and from the beginning of
August last handled all drafts, etc.,
against shipments of dairy produce under
the Primary Products Marketing Act. The
biggest loss to the B.N.Z. was Govern-
ment business in the exchange market. In
the Dominion the Government continues
to bank with its old friend, of whose
£6,328,152 of share capital it owns
£2,109,375, at all addresses except Wel-
lington. The gold handed over by the co.
was worth about £796,000 more than was
received for it. Owing to the rise in taxa-
tion, transfer of the note issue had little
effect upon profits; but loss of London
exchange business in connection with
dairy produce has affected earnings.
However, after Government requirements
have been met, the Reserve Bank is will-
ing to sell surplus London funds to the
trading banks. As for taxation, the banks
are assessed not on their actual earnings
but on an assumed income arrived at by
adding their average assets and liabilities
in the Dominion together and taking 30s.
p.c. thereof. Hopes are that the com-
mittee recently set up by the Govern-
ment to go into the question of taxation
generally will give the banks some relief
in this direction. “Few of our cus-
tomers,” the chairman says, “applied for
adjustment of their obligations to the
bank under the Mortgagors and Lessees’
Rehabilitation Act, which came into
operation in October last.”
Whatever the co. missed on the swings
it picked up on the roundabouts last
term. After providing for contingencies,
the spring in gross earnings was £97,360:
Gross
Income.* Expenses. Taxes.
1924 .. £1,709,289 £562,590 £389,661
1928 . . 1,816,869 630,453 323,339
1930 .. 2,013,526 684,745 359,648
1931 .. 2,009,412 696,515 445,884
1932 . . 1,770,686 659,629 502.836
1933 . . 1,746,339 644,194 486,675
1934 .. 1,569,907 652,163 323,511
1935 . . 1,468,371 651,708 231,439
1936 . . 1,508,982 652,608 291,193
•1937 .. 1,606,342 683,045 323,289
* After making provision for contingencies.
The taxgatherer made off with an extra
£32,096, and trading exes, were up
£30,437, mainly on account of salary ad-
justments, following legislation designed
to restore wages, etc., to the 1931 level —
the full effect of these adjustments will
not be felt until next balance. The net
result increased by £34,827, reaching
£600,008, or enough to pay the pref. and
mortgage share divs. (together £199,219)
and show 10.6 p.c. on ord. capital, com-
pared with 9.7, 10.1, 9.9, 9.9, 8.1, 15 and
17.8 p.c. back to 1930. The div., which
had been steady at 14 1-3 p.c. for the
half-dozen years to the close of accounts
in 1932, was kept at 10 p.c.
Here is a bird’s-eye view of the posi-
tion from another angle, covering the
last decade:
Liabilities.
Notes. Bill 9. Deposits.
1926.. £4,444,392 £3,721,791 £31,121,288
1928.. 3,797,080 3,985,303 30,339,033
1929.. 4,290,793 4,313,722 33,939,651
1930.. 3,754,949 4,943,050 33.897,609
1931.. 3,679,957 4,348,941 32,324,685
1932.. 4,062,762 3,720,191 31,565,843
1933.. 4,338,747 3,560,404 32.573.239
1934.. 4,259,149 3,437.612 34,328,004
1935.. 003,779 3,838,441 33,198,614
1936. . 324,452 3,832,209 35,740,430
1937.. 628 4,177,062 35,636,112
Assets.
Liquid. Advances. Premises.
1926.. £26,482.848 £-22,662,697 £484,103
1928.. 25,892,025 22,748,219 533,597
1929.. 30,233,353 22,841,453 549,383
1930.. 23,792,798 29,109,588 579,871
1931.. 22,628,660 28,400,213 600,759
1932.. 24,199,750 25,653,321 622,825
1933.. 25,712,572 25,079,868 632,771
1934.. 29,971,471 22,370,341 667,490
1935.. 25,907,405 21,490,732 673,678
1936.. 27,611,574 22,179,373 673,143
1937.. 26,108,701 23,663,949 684,961
The outstanding feature last year was the
expansion of £1,484,576 in advances,
which was accompanied by a net con-
traction of £104,318 in deposits and a
growth of £344,853 in bills payable.
Liquids were drawn upon for £1,502,873.
The amount of the co.’s notes outstand-
ing in the Dominion at the beginning of
August last was paid to the Reserve Bank,
which explains the reduction in this
item. The small amount now outstand-
ing represents Fiji circulation. Accord-
ing to the March quarterly returns, 53
p.c. of the co.’s deposits was interest-
bearing as against 60 p.c. for the corre-
sponding quarter of 1936. For the same
periods, advances were 68 p.c. and 63
p.c. respectively of total deposits. The
co.’s current accounts, fixed deposits and
advances represented 43 p.c., 47 p.c. and
43 p.c. respectively of figures of the trad-
ing banks for these items.
In the Long-term Mortgage Depart-
ment the £703,125 of share capital is
owned by the Government, and £607,050
has been raised on debentures. Of the
lot (£1,310,175) £938,116 (down £51,020)
was out on advance, and the balance
(£372,059) was used in the ordinary bank-
ing department.
During the year the Government,
which is entitled to appoint four of the
half-dozen directors, terminated the ser-
vices of three old nominees—George
Elliot (chairman for 10 years), Harold
Beauchamp and Oliver Nicholson —and
appointed John Dowgray (a West Coaster
who was one of the founders of the
Miners’ Federation), H. J. Kelleher (41,
merchant) and D. O. Williams (41, lec-
turer in agricultural economics) in their
place. Arthur Donnelly (47, lawyer) is
chairman. The only survivors of the old
brigade are the shareholders’ representa-
tives, William Watson (91) and R. W.
Gibbs (77).
The market prices the pound ords. at
435. 9d., at which figure the return is 4.5
p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis.
Ballarat Brewing Co., Ltd.
To Re- Re-
Profit. Dividends. serves. serves.
£, £ £ £
1986.. 38,048 111 p.c. = 19,516 18,532 141,172
Share premiums, £65,000 .. .. 206,172
1937.. 38,553 124 p.e. = 29,318 9,235 J 2 11,496
Brokerage, etc., written off, £3911 ) ’
It used to be Coghlan and Tulloch’s
Ballarat Brewing Co., formed in 1895 to
weld the interests of Magill and Coghlan
and of Tulloch and Son. At the same
time the business of Leggo and Son was
bought. The name was changed to the
present title in 1911, and the public
became interested in September last,
when the scrip was listed. Original paid-
up capital was £100,000; the figure is
now £250,000, of which £90,000 (it
brought with it £77,500 of share pre-
miums) was gathered during the last
couple of years. The brewery is at Bal-
larat, and the business extends throughout
western Vic. and to Melbourne, Mt.
Gambier (S.A.) and the Riverina
(N.S.W.). Progress, which has been
steady from the start, has recently be-
come more marked. Divs. averaged 5.25
for the first decade, 6.9 p.c. for the
second decade, 8.42 p.c. for the next de-
cade and 10.16 p.c. for the following 10
years, which included the slump period.
vSales and consumption of beer in Vic-
toria advanced in this way over the five
years to June 30, 1936:
, Consumption ,
Year to Sales, Gallons
June 30. Gallons. Gallons. per Head.
1932.. 17,531,090 14,184,200 7.9
1933.. 18,060,730 14,063,700 7.8
1934.. 20,071,765 15,969,300 8.8
1935.. 21,327,523 16,958,500 9.3
1936.. 23,469,853 19,538,800 10.6
Sales include inter-State business. Within
the State, consumption fell from 12
gallons per head for the year to June
30, 1928, to 7.8 gallons five years later,
and then rose to 10.3 gallons three years
after that, and continued to increase
during the 12 months to June 30 last,
though the figures are not yet available.
To finance its expanding turnover this
Ballarat co. issued 25,000 new £1 shares
at a premium of 10s. each in 1935, and
another 65,000 shares at a premium of
20s. each in September last. Last year’s
new share capital and premium money,
together with an extra £29,000 raised on
mortgage, and more besides, were used to
clip £55,476 off the overdraft and add
£109,377 net to the book value of the
brewery and hotel properties and £26,756
to advances:
1936. 1937.
Paid capital £184,625 £250,000
Mortgage . ■ ■ ■ • • 1,500 30,500
Overdraft . . . . • • 80,138 24,662
Sundry creditors . . . . 6,766 11,509
Brewery, hotels, ,etc. . . 259,133 368,510
Plant, etc. . . ■ • • • 47,000 47,000
Stock 23,136 21,763
Advances . . . . . . 83,419 110,175
Shares other cos. . . .. 353 353
Cash, etc. .. . . . . 12,676 4,032
When the books closed, stocks, advances,
cash, etc., exceeded outside liabilities
by £69,299. Assets are worth a lot
more than their book value, too. At
the end of May, 1936, the brewery,
plant, hotels, etc., which together appeared
at £292,133, were independently valued
at a total of £545,200. The co.
then owned 62 hotels and had a half
interest with J. J. Goiler and Co. in an-
other 13, and more freeholds have been
bought since.
Last year’s gross earnings were £22,550
better at £124,609, of which £97,572 was
on account of trading and £27,036 (10.8
p.c. on capital as it now stands) came
from rents, interest, etc. Including £7OOO
reserved for taxation (no appropriation
for this purpose was made in the pre-
vious term), exes. (£86,056) took nearly
all the increase, leaving the net result at
16.4 p.c. on average capital. The
div. was lifted from lli p.c. to 12i p.c.,
the final being at the rate of 13.3 p.c.
p.a., which suggests that the board is
satisfied with the outlook. Of the £9235
that remained, £3911 was used to write
off brokerage, etc., on the new share
issue, and the balance lifted visible re-
serves to £211,496.
The market prices the pound shares,
covered by 365. lid. in net tangibles, at
555. 3d., as against 50s. 3d. in September
last. The return at 555. 3d. is 4.5 p.c.
on a 12i p.c. basis, or 4.8 p.c. on a 13.3
p.c. distribution.
Walter Reid and Co., Ltd. (Q.)
Writ- To Re- Re-
May, Profit. Dividends. ten Oft. serves, serves.
1927.. 52,595 14 p.c. =35,000 4,324 13,271 221,88 G
Reserves disclosed, £lB,BlO .. .. 240,690
1928.. 37,418 10 p.c. =25,000 4,658 7,760 248,456
1929.. 46.976 12* „ ~ 31,250 4,290 11,436 259,892
1930.. 40,180 12* „ ~31,250 3,182 5,748 265,640
1931.. 17,572 10 ~,, 25,000 1,502 256,710
1932.. 27,750 10 „ ~25,000 1,954 796 257,506
1933.. 23,416 8 ~,, 20.000 1,754 1,662 259,168
1934.. 27,070 8 ~,, 20,000 2,913 4,157 263,325
1935.. 31,338 8 „ ~ 20,000 1,759 9,579 272,904
1936. . 31,802 8 „ „ 20,000 1,957 9,845 282,749
1937.. 33,068 8 „ ~20,000 2,99'2 10,076 292,825
The figures of this stoutly-ribbed Rock-
hampton merchandising co. tell the story
of conditions in the far west of the State,
where a lot of the business is done, and
of the defence the management has built
up against hard times. Since the begin-
ning of this century, paid capital has ad-
vanced from £93,750 to its present figure
(£250,000) with the aid of only £11,250
of cash subscriptions ; and at the end of
May reserves were heaped £42,825 higher
than paid capital. Also, the co. has more
invested outside the business than in it.
Assets total £627,894, of which £333,430
is represented by Australian Consols
(£250,000, up £30,000), investments and
shares in other cos. (£58,139, down
£31.332) and cash and fixed deposits
(£25,291, down £21,831).
Here is the position as balance-sheet
figures show it:
1926. 1930. 1936. 1937.
Paid capital. . £250,000 £250,000 £250,000 £250,000
Liabilities .. 97,971 36,115 33,068 51,425
Stock.. .. 255,266 208,298 135,930 144,754
Book debts . . 164,467 76,095 38,364 82,705
Cash .. .. 42,478 63,676 47,122 25,291
Freeholds and 1 f
plant .. }-131,855 243,568 H 66,292 67,005
Investments .. J (. 309,471 308,139
The business stepped along more briskly
last year, thanks largely to the improved
outlook for wool and meat. Stocks were
up £8824, and £44,341 was added to the
book value of advances, raising the figure
to approximately half the 1926 level. The
year’s improvement in the more or less
liquid surplus (£509,464) was £11,645. At
the Sydney and Brisbane branches manu-
facture and packing of groceries and
foodstuffs have been commenced under
the trade-mark “Table Talk.” The co.
is very well equipped to still further ex-
tend its activities and/or return part of
its capital.
The spring in the year’s gross earnings
was £7616:
G ros3 Gross
Profit. Exes. Profit. Exes.
1928. . £127,775 £90,357 19'33.. £81,298 £57,882
1929.. 128,432 81,456 1934.. 82,440 65,370
1930.. 124,241 84,061 1935.. 87,653 56,315
1931.. 92,044 74,472 1936.. 87,592 55,789
1932.. 88,163 60,413 | 1937.. 95,208 62,140
Including something for bad debts and
taxation, exes, took £6351 of the increase,
leaving the net result £1266 better at
13.2 p.c. on capital, compared with 12.7,
12.5, 10.8, 9.3, 11.1, 6.4, 14.8 and 17 p.c.
back to 1929. The cautious board kept
the div. at 8 p.c.; for 20 years to the
close of accounts in 1932 a steady 10
p.c. was paid, with a 2\ p.c. sweetener
added during the fattest periods.
As for the outlook, drought over part
of the co.’s area and the consequent loss
of sheep and cattle have affected many
customers. Still, good rains fell in March,
and, provided prices hold around present
levels, prospects look brighter than at any
time during the last decade. In the
coastal districts only about half a cotton
crop was gathered last year, and many
farmers are now turning to dairying,
which, on the average, gives better
results.
The market prices the fully-paid pound
shares at 40s. or thereabouts, as against
38s. 6d. a year ago and 365. 12 months
before that. The return at 40s. is 4
p.c. on an 8 p.c. div. basis, or 5 p.c.
on a 10 p.c. distribution, which is already
well within reach.


AUSTRALIAN MOTORISTS
PETROL COMPANY LTD.
B authorized cubital... J. 300,000
cAnncrimcement
THE Directors of Australian Motorists Petrol Co. Ltd.
* announce that on the 10th June, 1937, the first issue
of capital by the Company, namely:
£200,000, HAD BEEN FULLY SUBSCRIBED
By reason of the very cordial reception the Company has
received from petrol users and the retail trade it has been
decided to increase the oil storage capacity of the Company's
terminal now in course of erection at Sydney. In addition, nine
acres of freehold land have been purchased at Newcastle for
a large storage terminal and the contracts for erection have
been let.
When both plants are completed the Company will have available, tanks
with a storage capacity exceeding 6,000,000 gallons of petroleum products ,
an increased capacity on the original plans of 2,000,000 gallons.
It is anticipated that the Company will be ready to commence
marketing petroleum products in the spring.
A new issue of 100,000 Ordinary Shares
IS NOW AVAILABLE FOR SUBSCRIPTION
DIRECTORS:
The Hon. J. C. WATSON, Company Director,
Sydney.
The Hon. J. M. DUNNINGHAM, M.L.A., Company
Director, Sydney.
GEO. HARPER, Esq., Merchant, Sydney.
EDMUND S. PAUL, Esq., Managing Director for
Australia and New Zealand of Schweppes
Limited and Chairman of Directors of The
Australian Provincial Assurance Association
Ltd., Sydney.
C. D. SAXTON, Esq., Director of A. C. Saxton &
Son Ltd., Sydney.
W. J. SMITH, Esq., Managing Director of Australian
Glass Manufacturers Co. Ltd., Sydney.
A. R. TEWKSBURY, Esq., Vice-Chairman of Yellow
Cabs of Australia Ltd., and Managing Director
for N.S.W. of Yellow Express Carriers Ltd.,
Sydney.
W. A. O'CALLAGHAN, Esq., Director of Associated
Motorists Petrol Co. Ltd. of New Zealand,
Hawera, N.Z.
GEO. W. HUTCHISON, Esq., C.M.G., Public
Accountant and Secretary Automobile Associa-
tion Auckland, Auckland, New Zealand.
All the information required by Section 137 of the Companies Act, 1936,
is not reproduced in this announcement, but is contained together with
application forms in the prospectus, which may be obtained at the
Company's registered office, Sirius House, 23 Macquarie Place, Sydney.
Applications for shares will be received only on the forms of application
issued with the prospectus.
Write to
A. H. Watson, 14 Martin Place, Sydney, or direct to the
Company, Box 884 GG., G.P.0., Sydney, for copies of the
prospectus.
cm behalf erf
AUSTRALIAN MOTORISTS PETROL COMPANY LTD
SIRIUS HOUSE. 23 MACQUARIE PtACE, SYDNEY.' VA
Stock Exchange Reforms
Stock Exchanges throughout Australia
provide the public with well-organised,
regulated and much-needed service in
connection with the buying and selling
of stocks and shares. A high standard
of professional conduct is demanded of
and, speaking generally, given by mem-
bers, of whom there are 100 in Sydney,
129 Melbourne, 71 Adelaide, 35 Bris-
bane ; the Hobart, Launceston and Perth
’Changes have comparatively small mem-
berships. Nevertheless, the recent failure
of three sharebrokers —one in Sydney,
another (an old firm) in Melbourne and
the other (the president of the Exchange)
in Brisbane—-and the large sums of
money belonging to clients and others
involved have called public attention to
the need for Stock Exchange reforms ;
chiefly the provision of more adequate
safeguards against the possibility of
clients suffering loss through failure of
a broker. The principal safeguard in
this respect is, of course, the financial
position of the broker (excess of his
assets over his liabilities), which he does
not broadcast. That a broker who is
discovered to have got completely off
the rails may be deprived of his seat,
for which he might have paid as much as
£5OOO in Sydney or £2OOO-odd Melbourne,
is more in the nature of a deterrent to
the broker himself than a measure of
protection to the public against loss.
What is needed is (1) administrative
technique that will uncover a weak posi-
tion before it becomes positively danger-
ous, and at the same, time avoid irksome
interference with the individual in the con-
duct of his business, and (2) something
in the nature of an adequate fidelity or
guarantee fund.
Some of the most fruitful sources of
trouble in connection with Stock Ex-
change practice are overtrading and the
financing of clients beyond their means,
especially in speculative fields. The con-
sequences, which depend upon circum-
stances, include overextension of credit
and, possibly, the temptation to pledge
clients’ scrip and even worse. While
markets are stable and prices are rising
trouble usually remains round the corner.
But with uncertainty and prices on the
down-grade a dangerous position de-
velops. A broker who has advanced
large sums on financed accounts might
find that his margin of cover has more
than disappeared, and that some or many
of the clients concerned have little or no
further cover to put up. In these circum-
stances the broker is obliged either to
continue carrying the clients in the hope
that the market will ultimately recover
and the position be retrieved, or to sell
and accept the loss with as' much grace
as he can muster. To sell at a loss when
a number of accounts have been
financed, not out of the broker’s own
capital but from borrowed funds, would
spell immediate ruin for the broker; he
therefore goes on hoping and praying
for the best. The crash usually comes
when the bank or other creditor asks
for its or his money back before the
market has recovered and the broker has
a chance to extricate himself. It is plain,
therefore, that what the public mainly
needs is protection against the speculative
broker.
The question whether a member of the
Stock Exchange should act isolely as;
broker or whether he should combine
the functions of broker and jobber has
been a rock upon which Stock Exchange
opinion has split time and again. Chief
objections to combining the two func-
tions (that of agent and that of princi-
pal) are that it leaves the way open for
an unscrupulous broker to make im-
proper use of scrip lodged for sale by
clients, and for the market to be rigged
against the public. In London members
of the Stock Exchange are divided into
two distinct classes: brokers, who act
solely as agent for their clients, and job-
bers, who act as principals. Whether the
Sydney and Melbourne markets are yet
large enough to make separation of the
two functions a matter of practical poli-
tics is open to question. What the com-
mittees of the various Exchanges need
to consider is whether they have yet pul
their own house in order in accordance
with the public need of to-day. If they
neglect to do so, then they are inviting
the Government to bring down legisla-
tion for the purpose.
So far Sydney is the only centre where
definite action has been taken in the
right direction. Here, the Stock Ex-
change committee has adopted a rule
that it may investigate the affairs of any
member, with the assistance of a char-
tered accountant, when such action ap-
pears warranted. It has also established
a fidelity or guarantee fund of £20,000,
invested in Australian Consols and held
in trust for protection of the public—
not for protection of members, as sug-
gested by one of Sydney’s morning
dailies. Each idea is sound in principle,
but whether the action taken goes far
enough to constitute an adequate safe-
guard in practice is another matter. The
New York Stock Exchange exercises a
very strict control over the actions and
financial position of its members by
means of a periodical and rather exhaus-
tive questionnaire, together with the
right to investigate members’ accounts
when such action is considered neces-
sary.
A questionnaire designed to show the
financial position of a broker, the extent
to which he was financing clients and
the margin of security held, and the posi-
tion in respect of scrip held on behalf of
clients (i.e., as broker or agent) and scrip
held in the capacity of jobber or princi-
pal should do much to uncover a weak
position and enable speedy action to
be taken to protect the public. It should
also help to keep operations on the bull
and bear tracks within legitimate bounds.
As for the fund, extra money might be
raised by levies and/or the sale of addi-
tional seats, or further cover might be
provided by means of insurance.
Zinc Corp.
For the 12 months of 1936 London-
controlled Zinc Corp., one of the big
three operating at the Barrier (N.S.W.),
claimed a profit of £364,800, or £45,440
more than for the previous term. The
improvement was due to the lift in metal
prices and sale of some of the lead held
in stock at the end of 1935, which had
been taken into account at £lO Bs. per
ton. The following table shows how
profits have responded to movements in
the metal markets:
1934. 1935. 1936.
Lead .. .. £ll/1/- £l4/5/8 £l7/12/6
Spelter .. .. £l3/15/6 £l4/3/6 £l5/0/8
Silver .. .. 1/10.91 2/7.30 1/9.66
Profit .. .. £131,227 £323,996 £369,436
Ore treated .. 363,750 374,530 368,800
The . profit on mining account was
£354,911 (up £62,005), and interest, rents,
etc., turned in £78,523 (down £12,069).
Taxes, etc., took £63,998. Mining and
milling costs combined amounted to
28s. 3d. per ton, an increase of 3s. sd.
on the previous year’s figure, owing to
the lift in wages under the new industrial
agreement and higher cost of transport
and supplies. A total of 6s. per share
(£369,436) was distributed as against
4s. 6d. and Is. 6d. for the two preceding
terms. Measured ore reserves are put at
3,349,000 tons, but the diamond-drill has
shown that there is probably a lot more
than that remaining to be measured at
lower levels. The co., which is interested
in New Broken Hill Consolidated, formed
to explore and work adjoining leases to
the south, has planned a programme of
shaft-sinking and plant extension, esti-
mated to cost about half a million, that
will make it the largest producer on the
field. Shareholders aren’t likely to be
asked for any more. Last week-end the
London spot quote for lead was £24
16s. 10d., zinc £22 10s. 7d. and silver
(fine) Is. 9.8 d. Paid capital is £572,261
in 245,692 £1 prefs. and 653,139 10s. ords.
The prefs. are entitled to a cumulative
20 p.c. and to participate with the ords.
in any distribution the latter may receive
o Continued on next page.)


7
m
m
i!
m
■
■
■
m
f
J v A
A tradesman and a
GOOD CITIZEN
Edward Williamson nichols is a carpenter,
as was his father before him. A good tradesman
and a good citizen; typical of thousands of young
men in this country. He and his kind are the salt of
the earth. They do the nation’s work, live within their
means, pay their debts promptly, and provide for the
rainy day.
Mr. Nichols took out his first A.M.P. policy (for
£200) when he was 18. That called for an investment
equal to less than 1/5 a week. (Any young man in
work could do that.) Then, when he was 21, and getting
a higher wage, he added a £3OO policy. To-day he is
24 and he has arranged for another £2OO policy to begin
on his wedding day next month.
Mr. Nichols’ father died last Christmas time and
left him the proceeds of an A.M.P. policy that had grown,
with bonuses, to £827. That money is being used at
this moment in building a house. The young couple
will begin life together in comfort and security, and
isn’t that the way it should be?
Young man, you can do what Mr. Nichols is doing.
Don’t say you can’t; if you are in work you can, and
you will get endless satisfaction out of it. Ask us to
send an experienced man to talk the matter over with
you.
AMP. SOCIETY
The Largest Mutual Life Office in the Empire.
C. A. ELLIOTT. F.1.A., A. W. SNEDDON. F.1.A.,
Actuary. General Manager.
C. M. MARTIN,
Secretary and Chief Inspector.
D. E. WALKER, - / ' ' " ' ‘
Manager for New South Wales.
HEAD OFFICE: 87 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Branch Offices at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth and
Hobart.
District Offices throughout all States.
New Zealand Branch Office: Customhouse Quay, Wellington.
PATENTS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLI SON, Patent Attorneys, 483
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
* * * *
AUSTRALASIAN timberlands and plantation
valuation surveys, milling- plants, certification of
shipments. L. MACINTOSH ELLIS, B.Sc. (late
Director State Forest Service, New Zealand), Consult-
ing Forest Engineer, 8 Bond Street, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts,
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament 1888),
hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Colonial Mutual Life
Building, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.—Advt.
% jfc *
Wasted heat costs you money ! Have all boilers
and steam pipes “lagged” by William Adams and
Company, Limited, 175 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Quotations given for materials or finished work.
Write for your free copy of our latest General
Catalogue.— Advt.
Public Notice.
CORESTRY BONDS—I pay up to £5 more
l per bond than other buyers for N.Z. Per-
petual Forests Bonds.- —R. F. CORMACK, 440
Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
EASIEST SIAWM
motor spirit ' n
WORLD ■
V.
UPER
Plus
ETHYL
10/
M
Kt*.
' Gel that
Empire Spirit
C87.125P.
SUPER
Plus
ETHYL
THE ONLY SUPER
GRADE PETROL
CONTAINING BENZOL
THE BENZOL MAKES
THE DIFFERENCE
MB ®| BENZOL (tinted Blue) IS
SOLD AT THE STANDARD GRADE PRICE
on a share, for share basis. Sydney prices
the prefs. at £9 15s. and the ords. at
£6 12s.
On Sept. 10 Electrolytic Zinc will pay
a final 9 p.c., plus bonus of p.c., mak-
ing total distribution for the year to
June 30 a record p.c. Best previous
distribution was an all-round 12 p.c. for
the five years to the close of accounts
in 1930. After striking off £175,544 for
depreciation, the co. netted £321,703, or
12.3 p.c. on its £2,600,000 of capital, for
the year to June 30, 1936, and paid an
all-round 10 p.c. Earnings have since
benefited from an increased output of
zinc at better prices, and, most of all,
from mining operations at Rosebery on
the Tas. West Coast. Here the co. had
close on half a million invested on which
it got no return for upwards of four years
to February, 1936, when the mill started
up, thanks to the rise in the price of
metals. During the current term the
plant has been treating around 12,000
tons of ore monthly, averaging about 20
p.c. zinc and between 5 p.c. and 6 p.c.
lead, with over 6oz. of silver and approxi-
mately 2dwt. of gold to further sweeten
returns. From its own ore, the co. gets
the full benefit of any increase in the
price of zinc, together with the value of
the lead, silver and gold, which is a
handsome contribution with these metals
at present prices. On concentrates
bought for the Barrier cos., the E.Z. Co.
gets only about 40 p.c. of any increase in
the price of zinc above £l5 per ton.
Early in 1937 the ords. touched 695. 3d.
and the prefs. 70s. 6d.; they were at
595. 3d. and 60s. respectively last week-
end.
* * * *
Great Boulder Prop. (W.A.) is stepping
along nicely. For 1936 the co. netted
£87,066 (up £16,429, thanks to increased
output), or 34.8 p.c. on the £250,000 of
paid capital. The div. was kept at 25
p.c., and an interim 12 \ p.c. for the cur-
rent term is to be sent out on July 21.
Working costs were unchanged at 31s.
11.5 d. Expenditure on special mine de-
velopment totalled £39,798, which was
charged to reserves created for the pur-
pose. Ore reserves have risen by 55,878
tons to 836,959 tons, averaging 7.2dwt.,
or l.ldwt. more than the average at the
end of 1935. When the books closed
more or less liquids exceeded current
liabilities by approximately £BO,OOO. The
co.’s share of profits from re-treatment
of residues was £3086, which, together
with £50,028 received for the sale of
dumps, was reserved for mine develop-
ment expenditure. For the three months
to the end of March the co. treated
49,049 tons for an estimated revenue of
£109,011. Working exes, took £69,360,
or 28s. 3d. per ton, leaving a working
surplus of £39,651. Capital expenditure
was £21,006, special mine development;
£16,848, plant; £5657, mine preparation.
Plant capacity (the co. is now putting
through about 17,000 tons per month) is
being lifted to 25,000 tons monthly. En-
couraging developments have occurred in
the Hamilton and main shafts.
* * * *
Situated on the Boulder belt, London-
controlled Mount Charlotte has increased
its nominal capital to £350,000 by the
creation of \\ million 2s. shares. In the
old days the co.’s Kalgoorlie (W.A.) mine
produced 87,0000 z. gold from 367,000
tons of ore from the oxidised zone down
to 200 ft., where complex sulphide ores
came in and beat the management. There
are two main shafts, each down 500 ft.
In one recent sampling over 25ft. at the
200 ft. level has disclosed s.B9dwt. values
on the south side of a crosscut, with
6.33dwt. on the north. Here a bulk crush-
ing of 123 tons averaged 5.75dwt. At
300 ft., the ore-body averages 6.74dwt. over
40ft. on the north side of a crosscut and
6.47dwt. across 42ft. on the south ; at
500 ft. original values are stated to have
been 7dwt. over a width of 30ft. Some
4510 ft. of diamond-drilling has lately
been done, the results of which, accord-
ing to Dr. C. Larcombe, suggest that the
ore-body continues for 1000 ft., and may
exist at 2000 ft. vertical depth. Subject
to investigation, Gold Mines of Kal-
goorlie has undertaken to provide
funds for the further exploration of the
property. Estimated cost of bringing it to
full production is £250,000. Between
400 ft. and 800 ft. the drill has stabbed a
series of payable makes.
* * * *
Formed in 1935 to take over from Im-
perial Mining, N.L., Imperial G.M. is
now endeavoring to dispose of its three
blocks—the Aberdare, Idaho and South
Star Deeps —comprising 58 acres adjoin-
ing Lake View and Star, Kalgoorlie
Golden Mile, for which it paid £193,125,
all but £3125 of it in scrip. On the Aber-
dare the co. crushed 2529 tons of de-
velopment stone averaging 4.sdwt, and
on the Idaho, lately worked on tribute,
1409 tons for 5670 z. fine gold. Boring
on the former area disclosed further lode
material, but no values of importance ;
metallurgical difficulties have also been
a problem. From 1893 to 1931 the areas
yielded 64,18 loz. gold from 129,081 tons.
At June 30, 1936, the co.’s cash balance
was £22,510. The recent flutter in the
co.’s shares in Adelaide, where the price
advanced to Is. 9d. last week, was over
its negotiations with B.H. North Blocks
Syndicate, whose area adjoins the North
co.’s most northerly leases at the Barrier.
* * $ *
From its Moonlight leases, Wiluna
(W.A.), Gold Fields Australian Develop-
ment treated 24,183 tons, averaging
6.14dwt., for the first quarter of 1937.
The yield was 1622 tons of concentrates,
averaging 81.72dwt.; recovery was 89.26
p.c. From the commencement of opera-
tions in April, 1936, to the end of March
last, 22,5570 z. of gold has been won from
these leases in the form of concentrates,
portion of which has been smelted for
72180 z. Two drives have exposed the
ore-shoot for a distance of 600 ft., carry-
ing 6.2dwt. over an exposed width of
100 inches. The co. recently took over
the Kintore mine, north of Coolgardie,
where a treatment plant is to be erected.
It has abandoned its Spargo’s Reward
option, owing to poor values.
:p * * *
Paringa Mining and Exploration has
picked up the rich shoot at the 520 ft.
level, a crosscut revealing sft. of lldwt.
ore. On the 300 ft. level, the same lode
in the south drive has been stripped for
40dwt. a ton over a length of 15ft. Last
month, the co. treated 1652 tons at the
South Kalgurli mill for an average of
lOdwt. Good progress has been made
with the foundations for the co.’s own
treatment plant.
* * * *
North Kalgurli (W.A.) continues to
obtain good results from development of
the N.E.D. lode. The north-east drive,
at No. 6 level of the Kalgurli shaft, has
been advanced in ore averaging 16dwt.,
while 20dwt. stuff has been driven on
further north. No walls are showing.


HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young? Streets, Sydney
Bgf
If
mm
'** 111 m
i £ 8 Slifl'llel
•» j }■ : ■ 'ssf g g iSfttifiiiS
Modern high-class accommodation
at a moderate tariff. Hot and cold
water in all rooms. Rooms with
and without private Bathrooms
and Telephones available. Meals
at moderate rates — unexcelled
cuisine — Dining Rooms, Grill
Room, Banquet Room and Winter-
garden, together with a first-class
orchestra.
Rooms only from 6/6 per night.
Telegrams, Cables and Wireless
“METROPOLE,” Sydney .
Telephones: BW2061 (9 lines)
B6363 (4 lines)
SMOKE-OH!
Winter Soliloquy.
To tub or not to tub; that is the ques-
tion.
Whether ’tis nobler in a man to suffer
The stings and shivers of an icy sponge
Or to take arms against a tyrant custom
And by refusing end it.
To peel, to plunge, no morel
J.
4* 4* 4* 4*
On Our Selection is Australia’s least
popular work—at U.A.P. headquarters.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Close your eyes tightly when trying to
solve a problem,” advises a psychologist.
And jab the pin at the list of starters.
4* 4* .4* 4*
“Snake Loose in Hotel Bar.”
No alarm was felt until the barmaid
screamed out that she could see it too.
4- 4* 4* 4*
A woman may be outspoken, but not
by a man.
•j*
The Strike-breaker.
These sit-down strikes are becoming
a standing joke. The idea seems to be
that you sit down to
make the boss sit up.
The most tragic sit-
down strike in history
occurred in Scotland.
When the slaughtermen
in Angus McWallop’s
whitebait factory at
Aberdeen decided to sit
down, he snapped the
lock on them and hired
men to parade outside
the factory, yelling that
a whisky war was on
and the distilleries
were giving away free,
samples.
The result was ter-
rible. When Angus at
last released the poor
gibbering wretches from
the factory he was so
overcome with remorse
that he donated
eighteenpence towards
their annual picnic.
D. McM.
“Savage—Lyons.” Receive Freedom of
London.” — “S. M. Herald” heading.
That puts the Spanish atrocities in the
shade.
-I- *l* *l* -I-
“Can you imagine an average husband get-
ting his private secretary to type a letter to
his wife asking her to return?”
—Divorce counsel.
Before answering we’d like to see the
type of private secretary.
•J*
“When a rich man dies his next-of-kine are
soon in evidence.”— “Sun.”
Yes, the cows!
•2«
What Is Ohm Without It?
Electricity is an unknown force pro-
ceeding from an unknown source and
liable to take an unknown course on the
most inconvenient occasions. It travels
at 186,000 miles per second, or slightly
slower than it takes a candidate to refuse
the benefits of pre-selection for a safe
U.A.P. seat in a by-election.
Electricity, like the modern female, is
inclined to shock one. It sometimes goes
round with nothing on, and is often out
all night. It is carried from the power
station to the consumers along wires and
back again in summonses.
Next to Don Bradman and Herr
Hitler’s moustache, electricity is the most
important development of modern times,
having completely revolutionised the
ideas of scientists, though gas has not
yet been entirely eliminated (see “Han-
sard”).
And, assisting radio, it is definitely
with us for s.p. bettor or for worse.
Dougal.
•j* *2*
“Sydney doctor says that city men are be-
coming healthier.”
Yet more are getting run down!
The Old Spot.
I love the spot where l was born,
And clearly I recall
The waving wheat, the rustling corn
And singing waterfall I
The songs of birds on flat and hill
Live on in memory sweet;
Yet there's one spot that’s dearer still,
And that’s a whisky neat.
Jim D.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“A juryman’s job is no sinecure,” says a
lawyer.
They certainly have a trying time.
•I#
When a man refers to a game as “fool-
ish and childish” it means that his wife
and daughter can beat him at it.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“History has shown that a Government can
underrate the people.”
And it usually restores the. balance by
overtaxing them.
Doing Time on T.P.
As nobody knows when he is likely to
be in gaol these, days under the car-
parking regulations or the Sunday Obser-
“Serves you right if I get pinched for indulgin' in Sunday sport.”
vance Act, the Kentucky idea of doing
gaol sentences by instalments may have
a certain appeal. This is the sort of
letter one will be getting:
Dear Sir, —While not wishing to incom-
mode you in any way, we would draw
your attention to the fact that we have
received nothing off your Long Bay
account for some weeks. A small reduction
of your indebtedness at the week-end will
be appreciated....
But how are you going to confess to
the wife that you’ve dropped behind in
your payments, having told her you had
squared a bit off last week when, in-
stead, you were out with the boys fish-
ing?
Personally, I think the lay-by system,
is the best. Any time a man had a day
or two to spare he could build up his
gaol account against the time when he
wanted to have a go at something worth
while.
It would give him more confidence in
busting a bank, for instance, to know that
whichever way it went he had three
years in hand in his account with the
Prisons Department.
Perhaps the authorities would allow
him to dispose of his equity in such a
lay-by account if he lost his nerve, but
I doubt it. All Government departments
are graballs. They won’t even let you
transfer a tuppenny tram-ticket to some-
one else.
Angus O’Cohen.
•J* 4*
“Plenty. of bookmakers I know are decent
chaps.”— Sydney parson.
We ourselves have found that book-
makers are rarely over the odds.
*l* *!*
“Toughened or armorplate glass, now used
entirely in the motor-car industry, will in future
be used for general purposes, including table-
ware.”
At last they’ll have something to match
restaurant steak.
“There are men who make money out of
their professions of loyalty to the flag.”
— “D.T”
It is their standard of living, so to
speak.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Let’s Hope So.
“Business English—the worst English of all —
is to be reformed. Not much longer will our
eyes and susceptibilities be outraged by such
phrases as ‘we are in receipt of your esteemed
favor and thank you for same.’ ”
—“S. M. Herald."
As everyone knows, repetition is the
enemy of good construction. Instead of
that painful reiteration of brutal threats
so characteristic of the average business
letter received by most of us, perhaps
it will go like this:
Mr. I. Nevvapay,
Dear Sir,—During our lunch-hour
stroll in the park to-day our sentimental
susceptibilities were impressed with the
bounteous manifestations of Nature garb-
ing herself in luscious colorings for the
benefit of man. How sad, we thought,
as our eyes travelled to the grim grey
gaol on the distant horizon, that men
who are careless in liquidating debts
should be denied this ineffable boon.
You will notice that our letterheads are
now embossed with forget-me-nots, a
flower that prompts philosophical reflec-
tion. —Yours, Sniffter & Sniffter, Ltd.'
McM.
»|« *% »T«
“Her husband did not go to the races, but
he bought expensive presents for women and
put one into a milliner’s business.”
—Divorce report.
Thus did he back his fancy.
What we hate about this time of the
year is the falling due.
4* 4*
“The one relationship taboo among aborigi-
nal tribes is that of mother-in-law.”
—Professor Elkin.
Then the ways of the heathen are not
so peculiar.
4* 4* 4* 4*
The Soviet’s policy in the East con-
tinues to be to send many West.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“The old Sydney Mint building has defied the
ravages of time.”
Sage thought: Thyme can’t beat mint.
*•* *s* *l*
“Holiday Lasted for Ten Years.”
—“Sun” heading.
That’s nothing—some have been
members of the House for 20 years.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Four men with beards in one car attracted
attention in Pitt-street yesterday.”— “Sun.”
Beards in a flivver flocking together,
as it were..
Odd Jobs.
At least 100 people in the U.S.A. earn their
Jiving as professional mattress-walkers. They
spend their lives walking kinks out of new
mattresses by stamping hard on the lumps.”
— “Sun.”
During their next sit-down strike all
they’ll have to do is let themselves relax
and they’ll be on a soft thing—provided
they’ve already stamped most of the
lumps out of the mattress they’re work-
ing on. Anyway, they’re on a good cop
compared with some of the jobs I’ve had.
One of my first jobs was roller-skating
rinks tester. It was in the days before
they’d invented sanding machines. Im-
mediately the last nail was driven in I’d
don a pair of skates and go for my life
around the rink, describing figure eights
and lots of other things, especially when
my wife was busy with the tweezers later
on. I used to find out the parts that
wanted planing off, all right. I calcu-
lated that, in my capacity as a human
pincushion, 1 picked up in splinters the
equivalent in super, feet of half a tele-
graph pole.
Another unusual position I once held
was gas adviser to a suicide club. When-
ever a member would come in with a
wild look in his eye and start burning up
women’s photos, or jumping furiously on
dud betting-tickets I would immediately
take the size of his head, test (say) the
6i size stove by taking several long sniffs
of gas to see if the carbon-dioxide con-
tent was sufficiently potent to settle him,
stuff up all the keyholes and fanlights and
usher him in with a final “good luck.”
I left following one particularly heavy
day’s testing. Having given the eighth the
benefit of my professional services, I
strolled outside and thoughtlessly lit a
cigarette. I came to as they were wheel-
ing me into the ward. Even now I can
only wear octagonal collars.
When a scientist who was experiment-
ing with a new hair tonic advertised for
someone to practise on I rushed the job.
Moreover, I thoroughly enjoyed it while
it lasted. All I had to do was to sit back
in an easy chair while he rubbed his
spoopju into my coconut fibre, and
watched the reaction, if any. I always
had nodded gloriously to sleep in a
barber’s chair, the gentle action of comb,
scissors and clippers on my top-piece in-
variably producing a somnolent effect.
Consequently I did my job mostly in a
delightful coma. I might still have been
with him had he not got his tonic mixed
up with some paint-and-varnish remover
that he was analysing in the same labora-
tory. Now, instead of brushing my hair, 1
sandpaper my head. I used to wonder
why he didn’t experiment on himself,
until one day I sneezed Violently and
blew his wig off.
For years I worked for a manufactur-
ing co. trying out newly-installed refrig-
erators in butcher-shops and on ships.
As the shipping cos. and butchers re-
fused to risk a valuable carcass in new
refrigerators in case of strange fumes or
wrong temperatures, my job was to walk
about in them, picking out the most gelid
spots. But one day my colleagues on the
other side of the door got too interested
in the post-mortem of a solo hand, and
by the time they woke up to the fact that
1 was seeing what 187 below zero felt
like I was as frozen as your wife’s stare
when you don’t notice her new hat. It took
three trips to the South Pole before I was
right again. Even now, years afterwards,
I still shudder when I see an iceman.
The last job I had—or have, for that
matter —was (or is—dammit, which is it?)
as a movable peg for a surveyor. He was
always forgetting where he’d left his
pegs, so I used to go round with him and
stand on the corner boundary while he
worked the theodolite. He left me here
as the s.-e. peg of a property 160 miles
north of Spinifex Flat. That was four
years ago. He hasn’t come back yet. He
might have won the lottery or become an
announcer or something. I’m beginning
to suspect that he’s forgotten I’m here."
S. W. K.


tgg-SEcußn>
SPREAD YOUR SAVINGS
Safely Over the Shares of
20 Noted Companies
To-day, investors small and large can do this in
one operation through a purchase of FIRST
AUSTRALIAN UNIT TRUST CERTIFICATES.
For as little as £25 (approx.) you can obtain an
interest in 20 of Australia’s strongest and
soundest Companies engaged in a variety of
enterprises. Your money is safeguarded by
Custodian Trustees: UNION INSURANCE
SOCIETY OF CANTON, LTD., Union Building,
Bond Street, Sydney, who collect all income and
distribute it twice-yearly to Certificate Holders —
without any deduction whatsoever. The invest-
ment is realisable at any time.
Write for a free descriptive booklet No. 1 to the
Managers : —
AUSTRALIAN FIXED TRUSTS PTY., LTD.,
DIRECTORS:
vwnr G Watson, Esq. (Chairman), formerly Manager, The
Trustees. Executors and Agency Co., Ltd. Melbourne; Borman
T cowner Esq.. Solicitor: Allen, Allen & Hemsley, Sidney,
Tohn A L Gunn, F.C.A. (Aust.), Chartered Accountant
(Aust.); Palmer Kent, Esq., Retired Chief Inspector, The Bank
of Australasia.
8-14 BOND STREET, SYDNEY.
Telephone: 85294. Box 4028 V.V., G.P.O.
ESTABLISHED
1834
THE
Commercial Banking Company
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED
with which Is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND £4,300,000 0 0
(Used wholly in the business)
RESERVE CAPITAL . . . . £4,739,012 10 0
DIRECTORS:
JAMES ASHTON (Chairman); EDWARD R. KNOX;
OWEN E. FRIEND; SIR WM. VICARS, C.8.E.;
ORWELL PHILLIPS.
General Manager;
C. DARVALL.
Head Office:
343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
London Office:
18 BIRCHIN LANE, LOMBARD STREET, E.C.3.
London Bankers;
The Bank of England; Westminster Bank, Ltd.; Barclay’s
Bank, Ltd.; National Provincial Bank, Ltd.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout
New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, South Australia.
And at Canberra, Federal'Territory.
Agents throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS
TRANSACTED
Business.Rollery,Etc.
And So It Has Turned Out
There has been much weeping and
gnashing of teeth among speculators
these past two months, and among people
who financed punters and who have de-
pended on brokerage earnings from
them. Generally dealings in “high”
finance are much more extensive and
have more influence on the public weal
than the small man’s gamble.
Little sympathy can be extended to
squealers at present. Easy money and
avarice on the part of “dealers” always
bring troubles in their train that strike
at the real producers of wealth and ad-
versely affect genuine investors.
Three-fourths of the cables and head-
lines touching on the latest world finan-
cial disturbance present the position from
the point of view of the quasi-investor
and the dyed-in-the-wool speculator.
Most reports admit that trade is still
good; the howls have come from the
sharemarkets and commodity-markets.
Inevitably the troubles in these sections
must have some effect on trade gener-
ally ; but it does not follow that this
time it will be a profound effect.
In successive articles on this page (B.
24/2/’37 and 3/3/’37), a month before
the- recent market setback occurred, no
bones were made about the threatening
dangers which have since turned into
unpleasant actualities. In February it
was said, in part:
The sharp recovery from slump during
the past two years has resulted in a specu-
lator’s paradise. Sharemarkets have been
buoyant, despite the tightness of money.
This state of affairs can’t continue for
ever; but the firm tone is likely to last
longer if speculation is not overdone.
Also,
The investor who wants to play safe at
this stage should regard that background
of soaring share-prices over the past three
years as a warning that all such good
things must come to an end, and not as
a promise that the immediate past is
likely to be repeated in the future.
Early in March:
The soundest stimulus to prices is an
increase in the people’s consumption and
demand, not in capital expenditure that ,
speculates an- increased demand, or in
outlay on armaments.
It is a great pity that the speculative
rearmament element has entered into raw-
material price recovery, because six months
ago things were shaping very nicely on
trade developments alone The “re- .
armament premium” is a big one, and
in the long run is likely to do more harm
than good to world trade. Overspeculation
begets slumps; and how much, specula-
tion has entered into the present metal
boom is indicated by the fact that not
one penny of the proposed British re-
armament loan has yet been raised, let
alone spent.
Rising prices, eagerly worked for by
President Roosevelt and others during the
darkest days of the slump, are no longer
so necessary as they seemed to be. Prices
of goods matter- only in relation to their
cost; and if costs have been brought down
to such a level that goods can be sold
profitably at low figures, so much the
better, because low prices give an impetus
to the export trades.
Recent lifts in some world commodity
prices are more boisterous than strong.
There are some who will go so far as to
say that the position is dangerous
In Australia we should not allow uncer-
tain hopes of a trade boom to lure us
into increased prices and costs. Because
the stability we have experienced for some
years now has enabled industry to plan
ahead with confidence; and confidence is
a great thing.
The great fizz-up in metal- and share-
markets started early in January and
began to collapse, after a “peak” a week
or so before, the first week in April,
when the gold-price scare sprang from
New York. Confidence, so far as specu-
lators are concerned, went to the dogs,
partly because, in a number of cases,
their money went that way, too. Support
for stocks usually dealt in on a large
scale became weak as water the world
over, largely because unloading on “car-
ried” speculators’ account was still going
on ; and the position was the same in the
base-metal markets.
If we have seen the worst of the set-
back we should feel quite cheerful about
it. The danger of a rising spiral of costs
and prices becomes less menacing with
speculation “dampened down,” and ordi-
nary commercial supply and demand
have more chance of governing condi-
tions. Three or four months of high
prices was hardly enough to establish a
permanently higher level of capital
values and costs; if the boom had lasted
three times as long it would probably
have, played merry Hades with trade and
employment when it fizzled out.. Still,
even with things going along on their
present quieter scale, in Australia we
should be particularly careful of creating
fictitious prosperity by inflating wages
and prices.
Over the last 12 months wool has been
one of the stoutest. pillars underpinning
the economic structure of the Common-
wealth. Compared with the previous
year, an additional 107,213 bales were
put under the hammer; prices were up
and the cheque was worth £11,074,960
more, despite the absence of our second-
best customer, Japan, from auctions dur-
ing the first half of the season. Here
are details of the clip, compiled by-the
National Council of Wool Selling
Brokers of Australia, for the last five
seasons, together with monthly clear-
ances for the year just closed:
Amount Avge.
Season. Bales. Realised. per lb.
1932- 3,000,075 £34,410,321 8.9 d.
1933- 2,523,676 51,098/717 16.2 d.
1934- 2,992,267 37,927,409 10.0 Id.
1935- 2,791,931 49,100,537 14.22 d.
1936-
July 14,048 255,921 15.3 d.
August .... 14,892 272,192 15.2 d.
September . . 286,918 4,844,341 12.7 d.
October .... 399,236 7,136,629 14.2 d.
November . . 418,846 8,813,864 16.9 d.
December .. 291,761 6,198.901 17.3 d.
January .... 337,409 8,008,328 19.5 d.
February .. 362,978 7.967.864 18.3 d.
March .... 300,913 6,762,722 18.6 d.
April 252,676 5,622,234 17.9 d.
May 8,176 175,277 19.5 d.
June 211,291 4,117,224 15.1 d.
Twelve
months .. 2,899,144 £60,175,497 16.7 d.
At the end of 1936 prices ranged from
15 p.c. to 25 p.c. higher than a year
earlier, thanks to spirited Yorkshire and
Continental demand, but with the re-
entry of Japan into the market in Janu-
ary bids lifted a further 15 p.c. to 20 p.c.
But for the Government’s trade-diversion
policy, which sent Nippon elsewhere for
her requirements during the first part of
the season, Australia’s record wool-cheque
of £60,585,815 for 1927-28 auctions might
have been exceeded. Still, when the
quantity of the staple sold outside Aus-
tralian auction-rooms last year is taken
into account, woolgrowers’ contribution
to the national income is expected to ap-
proximate £66,000,000.
As for the 1937-38 season, good rains
of recent months should mean much.
Early estimates put the clip at roughly
3,146,000 bales. The new season’s sales
will open on August 30.
Following the Federal basic-wage in-
crease, scrip in retail and cash-order cos.
has come in for support. Myers (Melb.)
improved to 395., David Jones (Syd.) to
435. 3d., and sellers of Finney Isles (Bris.)
want 325. 6d. All three offer good im-
mediate yields, with a wide margin be-
tween earnings and distributions.
C. 0.. (Amalg.) 12s. ords. show an 8.1
p.c. yibld at 225. 3d. —they could be had
at 19s. 7d. on June 25. The co. has been
refnarkably , energetic in its business-
getting of recent'years, and has diversi-
fied its risks by concentrating on small
accounts.(said to average £3). The bad-
debts problem—the ticklish part of this
type of business when markets com-
mence to fall appears ,to have been
guarded against. There are two lusty
subsidiaries, each the largest of its kind,
in Brisbane and Melbourne. . The Mel-
bourne one is expected to make its first
contribution to the pool this. year. A
solid return/however, is looked for from
this class of trader these days.
* " * * ■ : *
Though the public put up £llO,OOO
. of share : money earjy. this year, Felt and
Morris Hedstrom for Holding.
As a long-term proposition, ord.
shares in Morris Hedstrom, South
Sea traders and plantation-owners,
are worth consideration. At 30s.
3d. the buyer pays little for future
prospects, and, on the basis of the
6.5 p.c. p.a. final div., and allow-
ing for exchange, obtains an im-
mediate yield of 4.7 p.c., which is
a very satisfactory return from a
front-rank stock in a generally
low-yielding market. Earning
power is robust and expanding:
last year’s payment to the ords. (5.8
p.c.) took less than half the amount
available —and liberal provision was
made for immediate and possible
contingencies before arriving at the
net result.
Textiles, Ltd., may require more capital,
if the business continues to expand at the
same rate as of recent months ; judging
from the amount of outside money
already in the business, shareholders are
likely to be asked to contribute. Last
week quotes for the £1 ords. spurted 3s.
to 395., but failed to hold all the rise.
Besides turning out floor-coverings and
other secondary felt products, the co.
operates through a chain of eight sub-
sidiary and associated concerns. One or
the pups. Federal Felters Pty., has raised
its nominal capital from £50,000 to
£250,000 ; the co.’s present occupation is
woollen and hair-felt manufacturing and
wool-scouring and -carbonising. The
parent is paying 10 p.c. divs.
. Sis *
The investor seeking security, which
usually means moderate returns to begin
with, might do a lot worse than consider
a selection from the following portfolio:
Ord. Gov.Sec.,Div.,Mkt.Yield,
Capital. Cash, etc. p.c. Price, p.c.
Walter Reid £250,000 £333.430 8 40/- 4
R. Harper.. 280,000 336,187 8 39/9 4
Illawarra
Steam .. 100,000 111,945 8 43/- 3.7
W. H. Soul 315,000 425,175 , 124 89/- 2.8
North Coast
Steam .. 443,700 399,651 8 40/- 4
Newcastle
Steam .. 150,000 142,700 9 47/6 3.7
An equal amount invested in each of the
specified stocks would give a return
slightly above the average redemption
yield on Government securities at present
prices. Apart from the engaging ques-
tion as to what the various cos. will even-
tually do with their substantial and grow-
ing cash resources —sufficient in nearly
every case to repay the whole of the ord.
capital without endangering the trading
position—each co. is capable of getting
its dividend rate higher.
The relative slack between Edw'ards,
Dunlop contribs. and paids (B. 7/7/’37)
had not been taken up last week. With


Positions Vacant.
COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA.
Examination for permanent appointment
to the Commonwealth Public Service.
A COMPETITIVE examination for appoint-
ment as Clerk, Cadet Engineer, Cadet Drafts-
man, Cadet Architect, Cadet Bio-Chemist and
Cadet Meteorologist will be held in conjunc-
tion with the Leaving Certificate Examination
of 1937. The examination is open to males
(British subjects or naturalised British subjects)
who are not on the permanent staff of the
Commonwealth Service, and who were born not
earlier than January 1, 1918, and not later
than December 31, 1921, and to returned
soldiers under the age of fifty-one years.
Application forms and full particulars may
be obtained from the Commonwealth Public
Service Inspector, Bth Floor, Commonwealth
Bank Building, Pitt Street, Sydney.
Applications should be lodged with the
Secretary, Commonwealth Public Service Board,
Canberra, on or before Wednesday, September
1, 1937.
F. G. THORPE, Commissioner,
Public Service Board of Commissioners.
Commonwealth of Australia.
Examination for permanent appointment
as Junior Mechanic, Postmaster-General’s
Department.
A COMPETITIVE examination for appoint-
ment as Junior Mechanic (Training) will be
held on Saturday afternoon, September 25,
1937. The examination is open to males who
are British subjects or naturalised British sub-
jects, and who were born not earlier than
December 31, 1920, and not later than Decem-
ber 31, 1922.
Application forms and full particulars may be
obtained from the Commonwealth Public Service
Inspector, Bth Floor, Commonwealth Bank
Building, Pitt Street, Sydney.
Applications should be lodged with the
Secretary, Commonwealth Public Service Board,
Canberra, on or before Thursday, August 5,
1937.
F. G. THORPE, Commissioner,
Public Service Board of Commissioners.
Order Now —
THE
INCOME TAX ACTS
1936-37.
Federal and All States
(except Western Australia)
The recently-passed Federal and State Acts, aiming
at the standardisation of taxation laws, have been
collated, summarised and explained by Mr. H. Rawson
Stevenson, F.C.A. (Aust.), in one handy and com-
prehensive volume.
This volume will represent the last word in service to
the taxpayer or professional man who is concerned
in the taxation of income from one or more States, as
the new legislation has made other volumes obsolete.
CLEAR COMPREHENSIVE COMPLETE
Price, £l/1/-
The book will be available shortly, and should be
ordered now from the publishers—
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd.,
Box 252188, G.P.0.,
Sydney.
1937 BELONGS TO
aagaa
m
:1
• ' •-••>
••••• -:•;
SPkK??S
H
b&muMoft
(5) Beauty
and Comfort
Style-setter to the industry, Oldsmobile has set a new fashion-trend
and accompanied it with such comfort as has never been achieved
before. From dashing radiator, along the long, rakish bonnet, over
the gleaming All-Steel “Turret Top” to the graceful curve of the
Luggage-boot, speed is translated into safety and comfort.
Open the wide doors and step into Oldsmobile’s luxurious interior.
Upholstery, hardware, instrument-panels, all blend with the body-
finish to give a real glamour of beauty with comfort—for both body
and mind. The insulation against sound is unbelievable, until you
have actually experienced it! The “Turret Top” body is cool in
Summer, warm in Winter. The multi-adjustable driver’s seat gives
the driver the exact height as well as the exact leg-reach that he wishes.
‘‘Relax-o-Form” seating is far more restful than any previous seating.
Every appointment is included—Ash Trays, Arm Rests, Assist Cords,
Dome Lights, Cloak Rails. These, together with such proved comfort
features as Independent Front -Wheel Springing (which turns the
roughest road into a boulevard), No-draught Ventilation (which allows
fresh air to be drawn in without draughts—in all weathers), with
others, assure you of lasting and absolute content in an Oldsmobile !
Arrange for a demonstration now r . Sit behind the wheel and feel
for yourself the wonderful handling ease of this great car.
“AIR - CHIEF”
CAR RADIO
Instal an “ AIR-
CHIEF” two-unit
Car Radio, especially
designed for the
1937 Oldsmobile,
featuring exclusive
speaker and control
unit to match instru-
ment panel; separate
Bin. dynamic speaker
if desired.
General Motors--Holden’s Ltd.
(Incorporated in Victoria)
OLD SMO BILE
Consult your Local Authorised Dealer
Sold and Serviced by Oldsmobile Dealers all over Australia
the contribs. (on which there is £1 still
to come by Oct. 31) at 255. 6d. and the old
shares at 495. 6d., there is approx, a 4s.
profit to be. taken, provided the fully-
paids maintain their present price.
In the metals section of the market,
well-selected tin stocks offer scope for
profitable long-term investment. Life of
property, value and costs are the chief
factors to consider. In these connections
jelapang, Perak (F.M.S.), measures up
well. At Dec. 31, 1936, the co. (paid capi-
tal, £120,000) had 22,500,000 c.y. of un-
treated wash ahead of its dredge, t.o.
content (assay 75.6 p.c. tin) being esti-
mated at 8750 tons, an average of o.BBlb.
With all-in costs the same as last term,
tin at £220 London and taking royalty
and smelting charges together at £3O per
ton, the proposition boils down to this
(all figures in sterling):
8750 tons t.o. (75.6 p.c. pure) = 6615 tons tin
6615 tons tin at £220 £1,455,300
Less
Smelting and royalties .. £262,500
Overhead (6d. per yard) 562.500
825,000
£630,300
Less capital (market value) 235,200
Net surplus £395,100
Annual profit on nominal capacity of
dredge (153,000 c.y. monthly) .. 32,900
With the dredge digging to full capacity,
life of the present area is something
over 12 years, which, on the above
reckoning, would provide a net annual
surplus, after allowing for amortisation
of capital, of £32,900. This is equiva-
lent to ss. 6d. per share, or 14 p.c. on
the existing market price (395. 3d. stg.).
At last year’s rate of turnover, life of
the property would be 23 years, net sur-
plus p.a. £17,200 (2s. lOd. per share), or
an average return of 7.2 p.c. And lower
costs, following reconstruction and elec-
trification of the dredge, now digging
23,000 c.y. more monthly than it used to,
should widen available margins. Acquisi-
tion of additional areas and purchase of
quotas would further enhance prospects.
* * * *
Following the withholding of a div.,
owing to strain on finances caused by new
plant oulay, Wiluna shares have been
selling at 18s. lid. in London, which is
equal to about 225. 9d. in Australia. Once
buyers paid around 80s. for the scrip.
Gold production has suffered in recent
months, from a patch of lower-than-
usual-grade ore ; and the sharemarket is
concerned as to whether the worst is
over. The recent gold-scare and the
absence of a div. have thrown more dark-
ness into the picture ; but a mine that
continues to turn out 120,0000 z. of gold
a year may put pessimists to flight if
plant and ore problems take a turn for
the better. There is a fair chance that
they will, and that development results
will be mostly to the good.
£
Handling mining machinery and elec-
trical household appliances, among other
things, Noves Bros. (Melb.) has cleared
£21,313 (21.3 p.c. on the £lOO,OOO of
share capital) in its first year as a public
co., compared with £19,690 in its last as a
proprietary. Shareholders are to get 10 p.c.,
and £4691, which in the ordinary course
of events would be available for distribu-
tion, is to be used to wipe preliminary
exes, out of the sheet. There is a lot of
outside money in the business, but, pro-
vided debtors (£93,629; are worth their
book value, the position gives no occa-
sion for concern. Market for the scrip
stands at 335. 9d., to yield 5.8 p.c., with
prospects.
In Melbourne shares in Hume Pipe
(Far East), a little concern with possibili-
ties, are priced to show a 5.5 p.c. yield at
375. on the present 10 p.c. div. basis ;
actually 33 p.c. was netted on average
capital last term. Though there are rami-
fications in China, earnings principally
depend on Government spending in
Malaya, which in turn is largely bound
up with tin-dredging activity, from which
the. Administration derives considerable
royalties. With consumption of the metal
now running ahead of production, the
industry is singularly busy at the moment,
and quotas continue to lengthen. Big
water, schemes are pending in the F.M.S.,
and a steel shortage, coupled with rising
prices, should help demand for the rein-
forced concrete pipes the co. turns out.
In Melbourne last week:
According to Victorian banking averages for
the June quarter of 1937, deposits are up
£8,593,000, and advances, Treasury bills and
Government and municipal securities together
are down £5,550,000, compared with the corre-
sponding quarter of 1936. Treasury bills and
Government securities account for about
£4,000,000 of the drop. Australian notes and
cash are up £4,357,000.
Yarra Falls, which plans to have machinery
for its new silk-spinning and -weaving subsi-
diary installed early next year, were traded at
395. 6d. to return 5 p.c. G. J. Coles moved
erratically (as high as £5 95.) in expectation of
the final div., while Australian Cement (325.
6d.) reflected growing favor for the building
industries.
Barriers responded to favorable overseas
metal movements, then weakened. In the gold
section, North Kalgurli, which is getting
16dwt. to 20dwt. stuff on No. 6 level, changed
hands at 19s. 10d.y but Victorian issues dipped.
Morning Star’s return to the div. list (6d.
= £10,000) created little impression.


SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
In a period of just over half a century
the V.R.C. Grand National Steeplechase
has been won on only eight occasions by
visiting horses. Tasmania was success-
fully represented by Bay Eagle (1902),
N.S.W. by Grafnell (1903), Beilis (1905),
Grafnax (1910) and Old Mungindi
(1917), S. Aus. by Dundalk (1925),
Woodlace (1934) and, on Saturday, by
Last End. N.S.W. furnished no candi-
date for either the National Hurdle or
Steeple this year. The S.A. banner is
kept flying fairly constantly in Victorian
jumping races.
Last End does not measure up to either
Dundalk or Woodlace in fencing ability.
According to the jockey, Dummett, he
almost “turned himself inside out” on
several occasions. Striking the final
obstacle heavily, Last End sacrificed so
much ground that Seymour momentarily
regained control. Dummett lost the use
of one stirrup leather, and had to reach
down and replace his foot at the furlong
post.
Alick Fullarton, who was beaten on the
post by Santa Casa when he rode Dra-
conic in the 1936 National, conjured up
visions of luck turning his way this
winter ; but Last End possessed too much
pace for Seymour, and, with a pull of
151 b. in weight, gave him a four lengths’
drubbing. Montargis—a safe jumper but
deficient in speed—ran third, eight lengths
farther off.
Santa Casa, a fractional better favorite
than Seymour and Lady Madge, looked
to be gathering-in the leaders six fur-
longs from home ; but the list. 71b. told
its tale on this son of David. At the
second-to-last fence he was on the verge
of falling. Over the business end of the
journey the issue was confined to Last
End and Seymour.
What the result would have been if
Lady Madge had stood up—she fell at
the first fence in the “lane” before the
race was half over —is a matter of con-
jecture. Unluckily defeated by Last End
in the Steeplechasers’ Flat on the pre-
vious Wednesday, she was vastly pre-
ferred to that rival in the National, start-
ing at 11 to 2, with the other Adelaidean
at 16 to 1.
Last End, who is raced by the executors
of the late F. R. Mortlock, was bred by
Dr. A. E. Syme, whose father established
the Melbourne “Age.” Sired by Drake,
the National hero is out of Mucia, by
Lanius from the imported mare Phyllo-
doce, by Marcovil. The breeding lines of
Last End are similar to those of Ruach.
On the dam’s side she is related to All
Black, the sire of Desert Gold.
After sustaining more than his full
share of smashes in jumping races Frank
Dummett has achieved the rare honor
of winning both Grand Nationals al
Flemington in the same season. He is a
fearless and brainy rider. Warned thal
Last End was a bad jumper, who would
get rid of the best of jockeys, especially
those who rode short, Dummett length-
ened his leathers two holes. “But for
that,” he said, “I could not possibly have
won.”
Bridge of Mar, who had to be pulled
up in the National Hurdle through one
of the reins snapping, made amends on
the middle day of the fixture by an easy
victory in the Keilor Hurdle. He started
a hot favorite for the Doutta Galla
Hurdle on Saturday, but fell just after
forging towards the front a mile from
home.
With Bridge of Mar out of the way,
the Backwood gelding Dakwood regis-
tered a sensational win. Davanthus was
on terms with him at the last flight, but
fell. Left in front, Dakwood took Doug-
las by surprise by slowing down almost
to a canter. Douglas had to use the
whip desperately to reach the judge a
length in advance of King Siris.
Dakwood, who finished an excellent
second in the Grand National Hurdle,
was picked up as a yearling in Sydney
for 274 guineas by Hughie Bourke, of
Pakenham. At the same sales Bourke ac-
quired Kiorena (by Friarsdale) for \l\
guineas and Coster Lad (by Eaton Lad)
for guineas. Kiorena and Coster
Lad were leased to Melbourne trainers
and have proved very profitable. When
Bourke returned home and reported pro-
gress after his Sydney visit, his brother
(and racing partner) asked, “Why didn’t
you buy a truckload of them?”
When a colt can stand flat-footed at
the post, give his nearest rival three
lengths’ start at the end of a furlong, and
then win, running away, by a length and
a quarter he must be “one out of the
box.” Royal Order, a Limond colt that
S. G. Ware brought over to Melbourne
from M.L., did this in the Two-year-old
Mile, beating his co-favorite, Ortelle’s
Star. He should develop into a star.
Equilibrium, trained at Bendigo, was
allowed to go out at 14 to 1 for the Trial
Hurdle. He had no difficulty in account-
ing for the favorite, Wallace Drake.
Backed down to 2 to 1 for the Footscray
Steeplechase, Reciprocal made hard work
of the jumping and eventually fell. Places
were filled by 10-to-l chances, Jehu (by
David) romping home 20 lengths in
advance of Tezpur, with Lady’s Maid a
head farther off.
Firming from 4 to 1 to 5 to 2 for the
July Handicap, Spearflash was in charge
at the distance, but the Adelaide mare
Alinura wore him down and scored by
nearly a length. The, venerable Dermid
helped to pay travelling exes, from Syd-
ney by finishing a merely moderate third.
Alinura went out at the good price of
7 to 1, and some punters got better odds.
* * * #
Dameitta, a three-year-old filly by
Dunnottar-Blue Dame,, used to be en-
titled to race as a 14.2 pony. She has
developed in size, speed and stamina, and
on Saturday she beat a pretty good field
in the Carlton Mile at Moorefield.
It was her first attempt at a mile,
but she was backed from 12 to 1
to eights. Billy Cook slipped her away
in the first furlong, and over the last half-
mile the result was not in doubt. Wise
Boy, who chased Dameitta throughout,
was second, and Fireman, who came
home particularly well, was third. He is
to go to Grafton for the local Cup.
Dutiful, the favorite, was in a sour
mood. He refused to do his best. Babili
got boxed up and was never out of
trouble.
Monogram has been performing con-
sistently, but it was thought that the
Moorefield track was against this type of
galloper. However, A. W. Scott’s solid
chestnut got his long sweeping strides to
work in the Moorefield Handicap, and he
managed to catch and pass Bulldozer,
who turned for home with a big lead.
Pancake was a close third; he was the
victim of check after check along the
back stretch. Grand Warbler, fourth, ran
a useful race, but Soft Step and Linklet
disappointed. Monogram started at 7
to 1.
Backers were well on the mark in the
Flying Welter divisions. In the first
Aureus, who was recently bought by the
Hawkesbury trainer Eiver Walker, was
backed from sevens to threes. The
former Victorian nag chased the two-
year-old Brazandt until the Leger was
reached ; then he went on to an easy vic-
tory. Povertdale ran on well to get
second, Brazandt being third. The
second division proved a soft snap for
Frank Spurway’s Gymkhana. He had
shown no form for months, but track
trials suggested that he was cherry-ripe,
and he outclassed Orelton and King
Otho at the finish. Gymkhana should
win in better company. He was supported
from fives to 9 to 4; in the Leger as
.much as 10 to 1 was secured.
T. C. Trautwein’s filly Welcome (5 to
2), raced on lease by Fred Cush, had too
much toe for her opponents in the
Juvenile Handicap. She ran away from
the field in the first two furlongs. She is
a daughter of Royal Sun, who has evi-
dently transmitted his liking for the
Moorefield track to his progeny.
Gold Spark (5 to 2), a Rosehill-trained
two-year-old, gave away age to 13
starters in the Kogarah Stakes. After
Bal Lite had made the running to the
turn, Gold Spark cleared out and scored
easily from Bancor and Bal Lite.
Rockne was never a possibility. How-
ever, he was forced to cover extra ground
over the last five furlongs.
* * * *
“P.E.”: Going on the performances
of Theolos and Gold Spark in open com-
pany, I have formed the opinion that
three-year-olds will have a big say in
handicap and weight-for-age races this
coming season. There is no champion
among the older horses, and the general
run is probably below the average, so
that there will be great chances for three-
year-olds. Theolos is far from being the
best of the two-year-olds, yet at Rand-
wick last month he made hacks of almost
the smartest lot of sprinters that could
be assembled in a Sydney handicap this
winter. In former days it was nothing
unusual for two-year-olds to tackle
the “three years and upwards” division
towards the end of the season. Shrewd
trainers like the Wilsons, Old Jimmy and
Young Jimmy, have been known to run
two-year-olds in the Doncaster and the
All-Aged Plate. Forty years ago, a two-
year-old filly called Key proved herself
the slickest sprinter in Melbourne during
the winter —if my memory isn’t playing
tricks, she won the six-furlongs race at
the old Queen’s Birthday meeting with
Bst. 131 b. The V.R.C. handicapper was
so impressed with her that he awarded
her 7st. 101 b. in the Melbourne Cup ; but
she didn’t start. That was the year of
Amberite and Aurum (third in the Mel-
bourne Cup with Bst. 61b. to Gaulus and
The Grafter). In an average Cup field,
Aurum would have won, though he car-
ried the greatest Cup weight a three-year-
old has ever humped.
Footbrawl
Geelong took second place on the
V.F.L. premiership ladder by finishing
23 points ahead of Collingwood on Sat-
urday, scores being 13-16 to 10-11. Rich-
mond won back into the running by beat-
ing Melbourne, 15-12 to 13-10, while
Fitzroy, 10-19, surprised St. Kilda, 5-11.
Melbourne, Geelong, Collingwood and
St. Kilda are still in “the four,” but St.
Kilda is only two points ahead of Rich-
mond, with Carlton, South Melbourne
and Fitzroy each separated by the same
margins.
In the other V.F.L. games, South Mel-
bourne got home against Carlton, 13-9 to
7-14; Hawthorn, 9-15, beat North Mel-
bourne, 6-15; and Footscray, 11-11,
stayed too well for Essendon, 9-13.
* * * *
“Fitzcray”: Once, more the V.F.A. has
the hump because of poor attendances.
The familiar argument over alleged
remedies is taking place, but everyone
dodges the obvious solution —amalgama-
tion with the League. One pet objection
to this is that some old clubs would have
to go out of existence, and that even then
the competition among so many clubs
would be too unwieldy. Writer some time
ago suggested a simple way out. Form a
First League and a Second League on
British Soccer lines. For a start, the
present V.F.L. clubs could constitute the
First League and the Association the
Second. At the end of each season the
two best clubs in the Second League
would automatically replace in the First
League the two clubs at the bottom of
that League’s list. In England this sys-
tem has proved a tremendous incentive
to play-improvement, clubs straining all
their resources to win the honor of climb-
ing to the League above them or to avoid
the disgrace of relegation to the one
below.
$ * * *
Victorian football lost a staunch sup-
porter with the death in Melbourne of
R. C. H. Parker, one of the most able
treasurers the Victorian League has
known. A great player in his younger
days, the late treasurer started his foot-
ball with Geelong, but later switched to
Melbourne with his lifelong pal, Dr. Mc-
Clelland, now president of thfc V.F.L.
He did great work in various administra-
tive positions in the League before tak-
ing charge of the treasury. Last year he
managed the Victorian team in Adelaide
which won the Centenary Cup. He was
58 at the bell.
* * * *
The first Soccer Test drew 35,000 spec-
tators to Sydney Cricket Ground, and
they got plenty of thrills. The Austra-
lians kicked off, and within 30 seconds
had a goal, kicked by Hughes as the
result of pretty work. No Englishman
had touched the ball. Five minutes later
Hughes went through for another. Eng-
land got even with two goals by Eastham,
but it was 4-3 at half-time. Afterwards
each side scored one goal: 5-3, then 5-4,
and so it finished: Australia’s first win
against England in the round-ball game.
The English captain Joy’s third-back
game wasn’t nearly so effective as against
N.S.W. Smith, the Australian centre-
forward, had the height and weight to
hold Joy in the air, and on the ground
the Aussies all-round were faster and
played with more devil. Only in one
thing, positional play, did the visitors
show any superiority.
The second Test is down for Brisbane
next Saturday. The. Australian team
hasn’t been chosen, but 10 of the first
Test men have gone north to be ready.
The other will likely be the Queens-
lander Parry, playing outside left.
■■f * :j= *
The ’Boks had another runaway win
against Queensland —39-4, the four a
field goal a few minutes before time.
Their forwards dealt the ball out from
scrum, ruck and line-out, and the backs
—a reorganised lot for the occasion—
threw it about. There were nine tries.
Only 6000 people—those not entirely dis-
illusioned after the Australian XV affair
—turned up to watch the exhibition.
The Springboks come to Sydney for
their last match, the second Test, on
Saturday. There are four changes in the
Australian team. Bonis goes out for the
N.S.W. hooker Stone, and Hodgson,
recovered, and Malone come into the
forwards in place of Bermingham and
Ramsay. The backs were left unaltered,
but Pauling (injured knee) will be
replaced in the centre by the Victorian
Hammon. Stone and Hodgson should
get a share of the ball, but Pauling will
be missed.
•s* »s» sjs
Parramatta with a 15-9 (three tries to
two) win over Randwick on Saturday,
takes East’s place in the Sydney Rugby
Union “four.” The other places are
unchanged. West, the leader, beat East
26-15, six tries to two; and ’Varsity
trounced North 32-10, six tries to one.
Manly put on two tries —Kelaher’s after
an 80-yard dash—to Drummoyne’s one,
but was beaten 10-6: it still completes
“the four.” St. George and Gordon
tossed the ball to the forwards, kept it
there, and played a three-all draw —
Saints a try; Gordon a penalty goal.
* * * *
“Hooker”: Though he was selected to
play for Australia and the Australian
XV, Queensland omitted hooker Bonis,
hero of many internationals, from the
State team which played the Springboks.
One explanation is that Bonis screws
himself round to the side from which
the ball comes in and thus unbalances
the scrum. Most good hookers in the
two-in-front days did this. It occasioned
no disturbance if the lock man did his
work and the rest of the pack did not
shirk pushing. Cerutti and others who
have played alongside Bonis in many
Tests say this trick of his did nothing
to unbalance the pack. The truth is that
75 p.c. of successful hooking is vigorous
support from the men behind the hooker.
The ’Boks’ success in this regard is due
to the fact that in nearly all their matches
they have been able to get possession of
the ball, walking over it by the con-
certed use of their great weight. In the
N.S.W. and Australia matches, when
they were not allowed to do this by a
solid scrumming opposition, they did not
show to the same advantage.
o Continued on page 30.)
Harold Park, Sydney, 1937 Dog Derby
(Ist, £350 ; 2nd, £100) was a soft snap for
T. W. Trautwein’s consistent puppy Good
All —seven starts for six wins and a
fourth. Good All, usually slow to get
going, but a strong finisher, this time
flew from the box, and led by lengths all
the way. A classic-looking fawn-and-
white dog, Good All at 22 months tips
the beam at 751 b. Betting was remark-
able for a two-starter event; plenty of
6 to 4 on could be had about Good All.
with the other dog, Milsin, 7 to 4 against,
and the tote paid evens Good All.
# * * *
Germany beat the Czechs and will
meet U.S.A. for the right to challenge
Britain for the Davis,Cup. Von Cramm
settled Menzel; Henkel accounted for
Hecht, 6-1, 7-5, 7-5; and the German
pair took the doubles.
FOR CAULFIELD.
Leamington Hurdle: Dakwood ;
next, Tapageur.
Murrumbeena Handicap: Desert
Chief; next, Tapestry.
Godfrey Watson Steeple: Santa
Casa ; next, Jehu.
Malvina Welter: Plectrum ; next,
Conandale.
FOR CANTERBURY PARK.
Flying Welter: Brazandt; next, •
Stuart M.
Canterbury Handicap: Dutiful;
next, Bulldozer.
Novice Handicap: Maid of Peru;
next, Rockne.


sm
C
1
is
These Men Started by
Reading this BOOK!
6 INCHES GAIN ON CHEST!
“I have now a 42in. chest, 6in. increase since
taking your course, and I have grown all over.”
J. KIRKWOOD, C., N.S.W.
COURSE THE FINEST AND BEST!
“Your course is the finest I have ever seen to
so quickly build up strength and muscle, arid I
thank you again and again for what it has done
for me.”—J. McGOVERN, T.A., N.Z.
COURSE MARVELLOUS!
“I don’t think there is a more pleased man in
XiSCV' 5
\
this State than myself,
and I am more than
proud of my body
every time I see its
\ reflection in the mir-
l ror. I can only say
it is marvellous.”
—W. TIMBLETT,
P. 5 W.A.
{ FAR SUPERIOR
TO OTHER
SYSTEMS!
“I am con-
vinced your sys-
tem is the pick
of them all.”
—J. T. HALL,
T., N.Z,
m Gives a GORILLA
[he STRENCIH at 10 Men?
READ the most sensational book on strength ever published. This book will amaze
you with its facts—startle you with its possibilities. You don’t know you’re alive until
you get this book in your own hands. Do you know what gives a gorilla the strength of
10 men? Do you know why strength and virility are connected? It will answer questions
you have hardly dared to ask yourself, and 1 you can get a copy FREE—if you hurry. Fill
in the Coupon NOW, this minute, and post it TO-DAY!
“The Secrets of Muscular
Strength”—FßEE
7 SO Copies to be sent ONLY!
YOU have never seen a book like this
before. No publisher has ever dared
publish such a book. Its truth is glaring, its
secrets are startling—it is the most amazing
book that has ever appeared in Australia.
The moment you turn over its pages you
will be enthralled, you won’t blink an eyelash
until you have read every word. It is
crammed full of startling pictures—true life
photographs—startling text —amazing facts,
and yet for a while you can get this wonder
book FREE, if you hurry! 750 Copies ONLY
will be sent in response to this advertisement.
If your enquiry arrives too late you may
never get an opportunity again. It is NOW
or never. Rip the coupon out and post
TO-DAY!
What This Amazing Book
Tells You!
0 How to Add Inches to Your Chest.
0 How to Strengthen Your Back.
9 How to Treble Your Strength.
9 How to Get Strong Nerves.
0 How to Get Great Strength.
® How to Develop a Muscular Body.
O How to Cultivate Personality.
41 How to Be Successful.
® How to Attract Friends.
@ How to Do Feats of Strength.
# How to Be Always Well.
® How to Get Endless Endurance.
Post
Coupon
Now!
TEST THIS COURSE FOR 30 DAYS
NOW you can test this famous course yourself—try j
this remarkable system in your own home—under '
any condition you like, and if it doesn’t add inches to
your chest, broaden your shoulders, develop your arms,
legs, neck and back within 30 days, it COSTS YOU
NOTHING. But you must hurry; this offer may never
be repeated. It places you under no obligation what-
soever; all you have to do is send the Coupon NOW!
/
ALFRED J. BRITON, Dept. L.
107 PITT ST., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
P. O’CONNOR,
N., S.A.
STNOR.n
i.A. I
‘7/ NT *•»
HXIItS O
m am
J :
ww& ~«m
W. WILKES, S., X.S.W.
•THIS offer expires
Tn SHORTLY m . wl!
RUSH CUUPUHAIOHB NOW!
ALFRED J. BRITON,
Dept. L, 107 Pitt Street,
Sydney, N.S.W.
Dear Sir, —Please send
me, absolutely FREE, a
copy of your latest book,
“The Secrets of Muscular
sdf
Strength —And How to Acquire It.”
NAME
ADDRESS
14/7/’37.
Free Book
on
Drawing
For You!
Use Coupon
Below!
HURRY
COUPON
ALONG
AT
ONCE.
Become an EXPERT ARTIST, Quickly!
Brodie Mack’s Amaz'ng FREE BOOK Offer to all “Bulletin”
Readers with the Inclination to Learn Sketching.
Let BRODIE MACK Make Money in Your Spare Time.
Teach You At Home.
This Book will amaze you with its
possibilities and the vast field it
opens up to you. At last you will
be able to learn all branches of the
black-and-white art under the
supervision of Brodie Mack. This
amazing short-cut method simplifies
art. You learn at home. If you
have an inclination for drawing, an
inclination that many of us possess,
then why compete with the crowd
in ordinary occupations? Brodie
Mack can develop your ability for
this fascinating accomplishment.
Thousands of pounds are paid every
year for drawings, fashion illus-
trations, advertising catalogues,
pamphlets, books, comic strips,
cartoons, etc. Many have developed
this fascinating hobby into a highly
remunerative profession, em-
bracing magnificent opportunities
to those people possessed of the
enterprise to lift themselves out of the
bundy-punching ruck of mediocrity
and the dull, drab monotony of
factory, shop or office routine; in
addition to its lucrative achieve-
ments, it will lift you from com-
parative obscurity to a position of
importance in the public life of the
community.
What This FREE Book
Tells You!
O How to Draw Figures.
• How to Become an Artist.
• How to Make Money in Your Spare Time.
• How to Develop I.atent Ability.
0 How to Cartoon.
0 How to Caricature.
0 How to Sell Y T our Work.
0 How to Illustrate for the Papers.
0 How to Sketch and Draw.
0 Send for this FREE Book TO-DAY’!
FOR a limited time Brodie Mack, famous Australian black-and-white artist, is offer-
ing, absolutely FREE, a copy of his new book, “How To Be An Artist,” to all
readers of “The Bulletin” who have an inclination to draw.
Brodie Mack has made it possible by means
of this remarkable course for you to earn
money in your spare hours. He shows you
how to “cash in” on his experience. He
teaches you how to rapidly develop your
latent ability so that you are able to produce
striking illustrations and art work. The fact
of you reading this announcement points to
you having a desire to be an artist —then
send for this amazing book and let us prove
that we can make you a skilled artist.
LEARN TO SKETCH
This Easy, Rapid Way.
Brodie Mack has taught hundreds of men
and women how to draw by easy natural
stages from the simple outline to the finished
drawing—the drawings that bring in good
£s. d. Brodie Mack can teach you to draw
by post successfully; the letters Mr. Mack
receives daily are ample proof of this. Many
famous illustrators learnt this way—they were
not born famous. This is your opportunity
to become a real artist capable of making
faithful sketches that will surprise your
friends, delight yourself, and .take you out of
the small-pay drudgery job. This is YOUR
opportunity—are you going to pass it by?
FREE! To oil "Bulletin 1
Readers.
Post Coupon TO-DAY
, to be aft * rtl *
ot eioWB
£ Whole
wo-y^r
System O* ri.
Then get that coupon into the mail—this moment. NOW!
“HOW TO BE AN FREE BOOK COUPON—POST NOW!
ARTIST” IS FREE!
Never before has a book of this
nature been offered free; that is why
you should send for your copy now.
This brand-new book shows you
how to draw—develop your talent —
how to cartoon, the secret of illus-
trating, and how money can be
made even while learning. Fill in
your coupon and get it into the post
now —at once, before you forget.
The Brodie Mack Correspondence Art School
DESK 43, LOMBARD CHAMBERS, PITT ST., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
The Brodie Mack Correspondence Art School,
Desk 43, Lombard Chambers, Pitt St., Sydney, N.S.W.
Dear Sir, Please send me FREE and without
obligation my copy of your famous book, “How To
Be An Artist.” 1 enclose 2d. in stamps to defray
postage.
Name
Address
14 / 7/’37.


SILVER
EDGE "
TRADE (/MARK REGISTERED
THE RAY BE ST OS CO.
BRAKE
LINING
sdfs
fsf
MOTORISTS
CAN YOU STOP?
■ Have you experienced the uncanny feeling of pressing your brake pedal
and nothing happens?
Do not wait for this experience to be yours, but have your' brakes
watched and adjusted at definite periods in the same way as you attend
to the oiling of your engine.
See that your brakes are fitted with “RAYBESTOS” BRAKE LININGS
and so ensure reliability, uniform wear and safety.
RAYBESTOS-BELACO, LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Factory Rep.: JOHN ARNOLD, G.P.O. Box 71, MELBOURNE, VIC.
sdf
L
□D
JU/lO
h
sdf
The 'first Quadruple-acting Tyre Pump to be made —the Renrut
“Quad”— surpasses all attempts at imitation. Its robust design,
the meticulous accuracy in manufacture, the fine quality of
materials used —these mean years more of reliable and satisfac-
tory service. The “supercharger” action pumps more air into
the tyre at each stroke —halves inflation time and makes the
job far easier.
Fitted with accurate Pressure gauge. Price 65/-
Less Gauge. Price 60/-
Factory Representative:
JOHN ARNOLD, P.O. Box 71, Melbourne, Australia.
Manufacturers: 1 ,
WIT T TAM TURNER & PRO., LTD., Eyre Works, Sheffield, 1, England.
M.Q. and Rafferty
Among the Bigger Beef
Latest of the choice selection of prime,
well-pastured meat on the hoof to rear
his carcass into the Sydney arena, Jack
Forsgren, “Champion of Canada,” has
introduced an uncomfortable foreign
note into the. pleasantries of wrestling.
He has offered, before hostilities opened,
to shake hands with his opponent.
This is something unheard of, and it
took one of the gentry so much by sur-
prise that he obliged. All the fraternity
have their peculiarities, and Jack’s is the
clean sporting gesture. Instantly the
gong goes at the end of a round he
stops and retires to his corner. He. would
release an adversary from the Boston
crab, splits, crucifix, chancery, body
scissors or the Indian deathlock itself at
the mere command of the bell. Unless
he mends his ways Jack will earn him-
self unenviable notoriety as the man who
wrestles clean.
It is against all precedent and conven-
tion as established by that other notable
piece of fine big meat, Don Noland.
Don does not merely practise the
apparent foul; he has brought it to a
fine art. As a mob-baiter, he stands
alone. If the bell goes when Don has a
crab, etc., on the opposition, then the
onus is on the referee to break it. Even
then, Don will probably insist on speed-
ing the opposition to his corner with a
parting boot.
In action he joys in getting the oppos-
ing beef between him and the ref. and
then whaling a few thumps into the solar
plexus. After a round in which
he has all but reduced the op-
posing lump of meat to Bovril,
he delights in strutting in his
corner, with inflated chest, and
on his noble face an ex-
pression of triumph which
baits the gods to fury and
makes ladies in the ringside
seats shriek out, “Garn, y’
dirty big brute, Nolan’!”
It’s all lucerne to Don. He
thrives on it. For the yellers
he manifests a superb con-
tempt. Unless they quieten
down. Then he does some-
thing arrestingly foul-looking,
and loud bellow the bleachers and
shrill, shrieks the fair sex in response.
A great performer, Don.
Then there is Jumping Joe Savoldi—
his simulation, the amiable ape. A
wholly pleasant character, Joe, leaping
to his feet and grimacing fearfully if in
the interval between rounds someone ,in
the gods lets out a whistle. Joe wins on
agility; the drop-kick, delivered to the
upper regions of the opposing meat, is his
specialty. There would be a fair crust
for him in slapstick comedy if he had to
give up “wrestling.”
* * * *
Rayner v. Henneberry at Leichhardt
was good entertainment. Because he
had not been in action since losing the
middleweight championship to Richards
in December, Henneberry’s judgment of
distance was bad for a few rounds ; but
from the beginning of the fourth not
many of his leads missed. He seemed to
have Rayner settled in the eighth. Rayner
landed some solid counter-punches later,
but Henneberry’s left leads, followed by
heavy rights, won every round up to the
eleventh, in which Rayner was cautioned
for landing a low right. After a right
uppercut crashed on Rayner’s chin in
the fifteenth, Henneberry hit his man at
will. The local lad was tough enough to
last until hostilities ceased. Then he re-
ceived a decision that apparently amazed
both boxers, as well as most of the spec-
tators.
If Alf Blatch made good time from
New York to ’Frisco, the Sydney tax-
gatherers should get his income-tax return
by the due date. Before his match at
Madison-square Garden with the negro
Armstrong, Alfred announced that if he
didn’t whip the coon he would return to
Australia straightway. Hostilities lasted
exactly 7min. 21sec. Our hapless youth
was down 11 seconds in the first round,
24 seconds in the second and eight
seconds in the third. After that particular
knockdown nobody seems to have
troubled to take, the time, although Alf
reclined on two other occasions before
the referee “lifted him from the canvas.”
Altogether a tragic illustration of the
points made in “Champions: Past,
Present and Future” (B. 7/7/’37).
FootbrawE
“Fitzcray”: The Victorian League has,
for once, departed from its practice of
picking two men from each senior League
club to make up a team to play for Vic-
toria against another State. The 20
chosen to tackle South Australia in Adel-
aide on August 7 include three each from
Carlton and Hawthorn and four from
St. Kilda. The change of policy is ex-
plained as due to the absence of the No.
1 Victorian team at the Perth All-Aus-
“Now, lads, the sports expect a good, clean fight."
“Cant a bloke use ’ees dirty left? ”
tralia tourney. Collingwood hasn’t a man
in ; ’Wood and Geelong teams are visit-
ing Tassie. But Geelong has two.
* * * *
“Drayton”: Toowoomba has so often
proved a hard nut to crack for overseas
football teams that some hoped the
Springboks might strike a snag in the
Red Mud City. The Afrikander steam-
hammer was more than equal to the oc-
casion and obliterated the Downsmen to
the tune of 60-0. Winners scored 12
tries, and Brand converted nine, adding
two p.gs.
* * * *
“Old Q.”: The hearty licking admin-
istered by the ’Boks to the so-called All-
Australian team in Brisbane surprised no
one with any flair for the game. Only
a supreme optimist would expect a
scratch team hurried to Brisbane, to take
the field without a game together, to
stand up to visitors who have the com-
bination resulting from half a dozen
games. Such a side, for one thing, takes
the field without heart. Half the team
doesn’t know the other half, and any con-
certed scheme or combination is out of
the question. It was evident from the
beginning that men certain of a place in
the last Test match in Sydney were not
going to knock themselves about in a
nondescript show of the kind. We saw
exactly the same let-it-slide spirit in the
“AIF’-Australia cricket match of which
Allen’s Englishmen complained when
they were here. In this case the policy
may do a lot of harm to the Union game
in Brisbane, where it had been making
encouraging headway.
“Old Q.”: The 25,000 who saw the.
Springboks’ first match in Brisbane
against “Australia” paid enough to
square all Queensland’s liabilities for
bringing the team up and a good bit
over, so the Toowoomba and Queens-
land matches provided a wad of bak-
sheesh. N.S.W. has also covered its
heavy commitments in spite of the awful
weather ; if only a fine day comes for the
last Test in Sydney on July 17 there
will be a decent profit.
* $ * *
“Tenakoe”: One Professor Hart, of
California, has been telling Maorilanders
of the superiority of the Australian game
of football over the American game.
The prof, was under the impression that
Rugby, of which he has seen plenty in
California, is our national code. What
the Victorians will say or do when the
news leaks through to them heaven only
knows.
* * *
“Stand Off”: Rugby is getting more
international than ever. Mussolini has
given P. F. The.ron, a member of the
staff of the South African Legation at
Rome, the “medal for valor in sport” for
his services in coaching Italy’s champion
Rugby side. A good idea. Johnny Wal-
lace got no reward for coaching N.S.W.
to beat the Springboks, but if he can do
the same by the Australian team in the
last Test the least Stevens can do is to
hand him a U.A.’P. pre-selection walk-
over.
“R.”: Tell “Old Q.” (B. 16/6/’37), who
is curious as to the fairly large Queens-
land transfers from League to Rugby
Union, that a Brisbane business house is
fielding a first-grade Union team which is
largely composed of former Leaguers.
& * t- V
“Dyke”: The English Soccer team
struck its toughest proposition to date
at Cessnock (N.S.W.), where it won
from Northern Districts by 5-4. Morgan
in goal and Hodge at back did great work
for the locals. Eastham, the British
Army player, outshone his mates of the
visiting team. England was not at full
strength, and Joy was missed at centre
half.
Nineteenth Hole
The British Open went to an English-
man for the fourth year in succession,
T. H. Cotton, who ended a long run of
American wins when he took the title, in
1934, leading the field again with a 290—
74, 72, 73, 71. Fancied Americans—
Sarazen, Manero and Kirkwood {he had
a record 67 in the first round) among
them —failed to qualify for the last two
rounds ; and only one amateur, the South
African Locke, managed to get that far.
“Brassey”: Von Nida is to play a
match with W. Bolger, of N.S.W., an
Australian open champion, for £50 a side.
Until recently matches for money be-
tween professionals were rare in Aus-
tralia, but the practice is catching on.
Bolger has been Von Nida’s toughest
opponent in Sydney.
“Divot Digger”: At time of writing,
Von Nida has won seven of the nine
matches he has played in Sydney this
year and was runner-up in the other two.
His average for 18 rounds was 70.4 and
the average par of the courses played
71.1 —sterling consistency. In addition
to undoubted skill the Queenslander pos-
sesses one attribute which brings him
into line with the most successful of the
Americans. He is firmly convinced that
Von N. is the world’s greatest golfer.
’!• v
“Marija”: The Sydney Lakes Club’s
open championship is down for decision
on August 20 and 21. There’s a .replica
of the cup for the winner, and the first
five pros, get prizes ranging from £50 to
£2 10s.—£87 10s. in all; the two lead-
ing amateurs take trophies. Entries are
due by August 16.
:[: -I* '!*
“Divot Digger”: Lakes (N.S.W.) club
golfers have got themselves into a tangle
on a point of golfing law. Part of the
course marches with a permanent lake.
After the recent heavy rains in Sydney
this overflowed on to a fairway. A
player who hit his ball into this over-
flow water claimed it as casual water,
and argued that he could lift without
penalty. His adversary held that he was
in a hazard and must pay the usual
penalty for lifting ; and so the committee
decided. An absurd decision. The water
wzs on the fairway as the result of a tem-
porary happening, and in all respects was
to be considered as casual water, since in
a few hours it would have vanished alto-
gether.
Racquet and Bawl
“Brassey”: With the singles, doubles
and mixed doubles to his credit, Budge
put up a Wimbledon record for men. The
question now is when the lad will turn
professional. He says that though he
has fine offers already he will not think
of it.
* * *• *
“Top Spin”: The inter-zone final be-
tween the winners of the European zone
and the U.S.A. begins this week-end at
Wimbledon. The challenge round for
the Cup opens, also at Wimbledon, on
July 24. Each result looks a foregone
conclusion for the U.S.A.
“Rev. Knucklebone”: Britain has
selected its team of lambs for the Davis
Cup slaughter: Austin and Hare for the
singles, Hughes and Tuckey for the
doubles. Hare, after hanging in the wind
for some years, has come on a lot of
late and may develop class.
* * * *
“Centre Court”: Selections for the
English Wightman Cup team to meet the


JL
iipi
I!
: ■
M'
m
m
s :i il
A REAL OLYMPIAN!
TILLY FLEISCHER ( Germany )
who created a new Olympic Record
for Women’s Javelin Throw with
148//. 3 ins. at the Berlin Olympic
Games.
This outstanding champion
possesses a graceful physical
symmetry essential to rhyth-
metical action in her branch
of athletics.
Rhythm, poise, balance, in
addition to abundant physical
strength and energy, are the
qualifications of the successful
javelin thrower, just as they are
the outstanding features of the
Australian-made champions
Olympic Tyres
for Cars, Trucks and Cycles !
The Greatest Value ilVe Have Ever
Offered in Shotguns
im&Mi
An entirely new model 12-gauge D.B. Hammerless Gun by
FABRIQUE NATIONALE (makers of the world-famous
"Browning" automatic firearms).
30in. special sinokeless steel barrels, both full choked, chambered for 2fiu. shells. Barrels mechani-
cally held tog-ether by the unquestionably superior l)emi-8100 method which eliminates brazing.
Treble-bite locking system operated by the conventional, top lever; automatic safety. A high
engine-turned rib greatly aids the accurate pointing necessary in long-range shooting.
The action is particularly accessible, tlie entire firing mechanism being attached as one unit to the
trigger plate, and actuated by spiral springs which are found in all really efficient, modern guns.
OUTSTANDING features of this new gun are precision fitting, faultless finish, and a distinctly
refined appearance which makes it acceptable in any company. Its shooting qualities are superb,
and we will gladly furnish standard pattern sheets- to interested shooters on request.
RARELY HAVE WE BEEN ABLE TO PLACE SUCH COMPLETE CONFIDENCE IN A GUN
OF I/ESS THAN DOUBLE ITS' PRICE.
With plain extractors £lO 10 0
With automatic ejectors (to arrive) £l2 12 0
(Carriage Paid.)
Our first shipment of these new F.N. guns fitted with automatic ejectors did not remain in stock
long enough to enable us to advertise them.
MICK SIMMONS LTD
712-22 GEORGE STREET, HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
Branches: City, Suburbs and Newcastle.
„
lU
”\
4 , “T iW*', r .
i
4 i n. f " *
r -^r
*iUy*c4tc j<r*ujU
:<v,
wa
-c/
vi-ASS
if,
.
i
«£3S
I » , WIvW »**• v . -.
VWA*V«A*^»«
> :*;
>x«:
The original from which this genuine
letter was photographed may be seen
at the city office of The Clyde
Engineering Co., Ltd., 61-65 Went-
worth Av„ Sydney.
Satisfied users of Clyde Batteries write a better advertisement than an
advertising man. Clyde Batteries in general, and the Clyde 'Master
Battery in particular, give outstanding satisfaction because of the
careful workmanship, and the superior plates. You cannot buy
better batteries than Clyde for car, radio or home lighting. Clyde
'Master' batteries are unconditionally guaranteed for two years.
LVDE
BATTERIES
used by the Royal Australian Navy, the Federal and State
Governments, and by all car owners who want real value
and service. There is a Clyde Dealer in your district.
3c - n
NSW
American girls m the U.S.A. show tha
Miss Round, after winning England s
solitary championship at Wimbledon, will
not go, preferring to be married instead.
Bad news, for the Wightman girls will
make up the party for Australia, coming
on after their American engagements.
jj>
“Rev. Knucklebone”: Once more the
Australian tennis heads have turned a
somersault, like a character in a comic
strip. After announcing that American
tennis-players would have to be left out
this year because of overcrowding, an
invitation has been sent to Budge and
Mako. As the Germans and the bnglisn
women will be in Australia about the
same time —roughly, from November to
February—things certainly promise to be
crowded in the tennis world.
* * * *
“Centre Court”: Australian hard-
court tennis-players are tired of the grass
players grabbing all the limelight, and are
to press the Australian tennis authority
for the institution of national hardcourt
championships. N.S.W. and Queensland
are foremost in the move. Probably nine-
tenths of Australian tennis is played on
hard courts of one sort or another.
Miscellaneous
“The Gaffer”: All doubts as to
Canada’s part in the Empire Games have
been stilled by a cable that from 40 to
60 athletes of both sexes will leave Van-
couver for Australia on December 21.
The proposed team includes track and
field athletes, swimmers, cyclists, boxers,
wrestlers and, best of all, 11 oarsmen.
Bowlers may be added if funds permit.
The Canucks very civilly state they are
anxious to repay the strong Australian
support when the Games were held at
Hamilton (Ontario) in 1930.
* * *
“Blade”: Following on the triumph
of the furriner at Wimbledon and in the
Ryder Cup, poor old Britain took an-
other on the chin when a German eight,
the Vikings, won the Grand Challenge at
Henley from Jesus College, Cambridge,
by half a length in 7min. 33sec. There
was another tragedy in the Diamond
Sculls when Hasenohri, an Austrian, won
from the Canadian J. F. Coulson in
9min. 12sec. The Olympiad showed the
great advance made in Continental row-
ing, and, as in Soccer and tennis, the men
across the Channel have learned to
wallop their teacher.
“Shrewsbury”: In characteristic Eng-
lish fashion the centenary of the Oxford-
Cambridge boatrace of 1837 was cele-
brated at Queen’s College, Oxford, with
a dinner. Though the historic race had
actually been begun in 1829, there was a
blank until 1836. The following year
neither University could boat a crew, so
Lady Margaret, head of the river at
Cambridge, sent a challenge to the
Oxford head, Christchurch. Christchurch
refused to row. Queen’s stepped into
the breach. The race was rowed over a
two-mile course from Hambledon to
Henley Bridge, and was won by Queen’s.
It was not until 1857 that the uninter-
rupted sequence began.
;{: ; ! ; H*
“Shinty”: Australian hockey folk are
headachy over the selection committee
appointed to pick the team to play M.L.
in Sydney on August 14. The whole six
Australian States will be represented
at the tourney, which begins on
August 6, and six selectors have been
asked to pick a team of 11. N.S.W. is
not satisfied, and in case of a deadlock
is asking for a seventh selector to act
as chairman, and give a casting vote if
it is wanted. Three selectors at most
would be preferable. A way out w@uld
be to add a few more to the selectors
and play them against the All-Blacks as
the Australian team.
* -I : *
“Aigburlh”: In spite of their , moral
win over Maoriland in the first Test
match, English cricketers are coming in
for a lot of gloomy criticism. Hutton,
whom one critic acclaimed as England’s
opening batsman for the next 2.0 years, is
now in black disgrace—he made 0 and
I—while1 —while the bowling has elicited nothing
but groans. Also bricks are cast at “the
eccentricity” of Robins as a skipper and
Ames’s loss of “the wicketkeeping
knack.” Verity, for his part, has slipped
from “a wicket-taker to a run-checker.”
Altogether England’s chances of collect-
ing a side to extend the Australians next
year seem one with Buckley’s, Austra-
lians will wonder at Barnett being rele-
gated to No. 6 in the batting, after his
successful opening performances in Aus-
tralia.
“Tenth .Slip”: Joe Darling has come
out with a suggestion for establishing a
trust fund for the benefit of international
cricketers in distress. He suggests that the
Board of Control should raise money for
the fund by trial matches against depart-
ing Australian Elevens. In the past
games of the kind have proved poor
money-makers. Much better for the
Board to earmark a portion of the pro-
fits of tours at home and abroad. The
amount deducted from the handout to
the States need not be a large one, and
would be proportionate to the State’s
share. N.S.W. and Victoria at present
have a sort of provident fund for old
players, but the principle deserves exten-
sion throughout Australia.
* * * *
“Aigburth”: The English papers to
hand are full of the artistic stroking of
the Australian girl cricketers and their
pace and sureness in the field: More-
over, the bowling has quite upset all
previous ideas on the subject. Stamina
is not wanting, as is seen by the 200 n.o.
(in 230 minutes) of Miss Holmes against
a West of England team. A score of
the kind makes demands on the staying
power of a well-trained man.
* * * *
“Amateur Pro.”: Sydney Cricket
Ground trust has had the brazen impu-
dence to suggest that the time is now
ripe for the Government to come along
with borrowed brass to help the trust
complete the renovation of ground and
stands. The suggestion should be flatly
rejected, with a rider that the ground,
endowed originally for amateur sport,
and now handed over in wintertime to a
professional organisation, must be left
free for the use of all sporting bodies.
jj;
“Member”: The reference of “Major
Pendennis” (B. 7/7/’37) to Sydney C.G.
as h.q. of a social club might create an-
other pre-selection feud if members were
to be elected by ballot, as at Phila-
delphia. Better accommodation for non-
members should be provided. Those who
yearn for more social activity—there are
8000 lady ticket-holders—could repair
for their revelry to near-by premises
already provided for such purposes.
:J: iji ‘l* 'k
“Long Dog”: The story of the gentle-
man who tried to “stop” his racing tyke
by filling it with meat just before a race
(B. 7/7/’37) recalls a Waterloo Cup
classic. An owner with a dog well ad-
vanced in the ties resolved to steady him
and lay the family shirt against him. The
tyke was accordingly given a leg of
mutton before going out, and was put
under the care of a lad coupled with an-
other dog.. The loaded dog felt uncom-
fortable and deposited his meal on the
grass. It was promptly eaten by his mate,
the lad being engrossed in another course.
The lightened tyke won his tie, of course,
amid lamentations from his “connec-
tions.”
* * * *
“Ibn el lssar”: Cabled that an attempt
to induce a couple of cheetahs—the so-
called hunting leopard—to chivy a tin-
hare at London’s White City proved a
failure, the animals refusing to take, the
joke seriously. Anyone acquainted with
their habits could have tipped this. The
hunting cheetah is good only for a light-
ning sprint up to 150 yards, and if he
does not bag his prey by the end of that
gives up in disgust. In Central India,
where the cheetah is still used to hunt
blackbuck, the practice is to take hint
as close to the game as possible in a
native cart drawn by bullocks. The black-
buck, the only Indian antelope which fre-
quents the cultivated areas in spite of the
presence of human beings, is the wariest
of all Indian game and unapproachable
under ordinary conditions, but takes no
notice of the familiar cultivator’s cart.
In this the cheetahs, hooded like falcons,
are brought up as near as possible and
then unhooded and released. If the dash
is unsuccessful they are rehooded and
taken somewhere else for another try.


SHADOW
SHOWS
“Love on the Run.”
RUNAWAY HEIRESS, Joan Crawford
NEWS HOUNDS .. Clark Gable and
Franchot Tone
SPIES Reginald Owen and
Mona Barrie
The heiress who. kicks over the traces
when in her wedding gown and on the
verge of marriage with a count whose
mercenary nature she has just discovered
is an old and trusted screen friend.
Apart from that, this film makes no con-
cession to the orthodox. Enter two
Amurrkan press boys (venue of the
“romance” is London) on different
papers, great pals who will dump each
other cold to get to a scoop. By strong-
arm methods Gable beats his rival, and,
grabbing a ’plane belonging to a scien-
tific foreign baron who has announced
his intention of breaking the altitude
record, he makes a dash for France with
the girl. Just as they are entering the
’plane, their flying gear forming an effec-
tive disguise, a bunch of flowers, in
which is concealed a secret plan of Eng-
land’s coastal air defences, is thrown in
for them. From then on exciting
adventures in espionage mingle' with
romance, with the news fiends trying
to outwit each other at every turn.
There is some excellent comedy when
Gable and Miss Crawford break into
the Palace of Fontainebleau and put up
in a suite once inhabited by a French
king, with a crazy caretaker doing them
homage in mistake for the spirits of long-
dead royalty. The piece flows along
swiftly and smoothly, and bubbles
with lighthearted merriment throughout.
Direction by W. S. Van Dyke is first
class.
The alleged “glamor” of these stars
aside, they can certainly act, and each
gives a polished performance. Franchot
Tone has never done better comedy work
in support, and Reginald Owen is suavely
deft in the spy role. At Sydney St.
James.
“Love Is News.”
GO-GETTER REPORTER.
Tyrone Power
NEWS EDITOR Don Ameche
SPORTIVE YOUNG MILLIONAIRESS,
Loretta Young
HER DAD Dudley Digges
COMIC COUNTY JUDGE,
Slim Summerville
The rich young lady, to turn the tables
on the too-persistent reporter, gathered
together the representatives of all the
other newspapers and informed them
that she was to marry the young man, and
had settled a million bucks on him. This
loses the good-looking news-hound his
job (for allowing himself to be scooped),
wherefore he hates the rich young lady.
But she pursues him with persecution and
gets him gaoled oh a framed-up petty
theft, so that they may be in prison to-
gether—she was lumbered for speeding.
A comedy of cross-purposes develops.
There are flashes of originality in the
fun—a game of draughts on the
chequered linoleum of a bar-room floor
with pints of beer for white and whiskies
for black, each taken man being con-
sumed by the taker; Miss Young’s sing-
ing of “The Prisoner’s Song” in a voice
indescribably raucous and irritating; a
gaol whose iron doors are continually
collapsing; a choleric news-editor whose
wife talks to him for hours through a
telephone receiver that lies on the table
unheeded ; Tyrone Power, whose Eng-
lish in “Lloyds of London” was fault-
less, exercising a thorough comprehen-
sion of the American language in such
phrases as “Soitenly, toots.” Of course
in the end the moneyed girl shunts a
foreign count in favor of the poor but
honest reporter. At Sydney Plaza.
“Let Them Live.”
SMALL-TOWN DICTATOR,
Edward Ellis
RIGHTEOUS YOUNG DOCTOR,
John Howard
HIS SOOLER Nan Grey
The civic adventures of a young medi-
cal graduate going to his first hospital
appointment' start when he is bequeathed
8000 dollars by a dying stranger whom
he befriends and complete information
on the nefarious activities of the tyrant
who runs the town. Palling up with a
stenographer whose old man had bitten
the dust' at behest of said tyrant, he starts
out to clean the place up. He strikes his
first snag when he discovers that the
iron-hearted nabob does good by stealth
—runs a philanthropic institution for un-
derfed boys. This scarcely squares with
the philanthropist’s cold-blooded squeez-
ing of bloodmoney and allowing slum
children to die off like flies from pre-
ventible epidemics, but even a screen
playwright’s logic must have a holiday
now and then. A few half-hearted skir-
mishes with the Big Bahss follow, and the
crusader for hahnesty is chided by Her
“Why don't you do something useful with that gadget? You know the
drainpipe's blocked up!”
for going cold on his campaign. Sim-
mering with indignation, the noble fellow
hops into it and succeeds at last in
touching the granite-soft heart of the un-
scrupulous one when a fresh epidemic
threatens the life of the one human being
he loves. Smitten with remorse, the
racketeer reforms, everybody’s happy,
and the hankies can be wrung out.
Although the piece reflects little of life
it has one redeeming feature —a solid bit
of character acting by Edward Ellis. At
Sydney Plaza.
“Draegerman Courage.”
SUBTERRANEAN HERO,
Barton McLane
TOWN MEDICO .... Henry O’Neill
HIS DAUGHTER Jean Muir
HARD MINEOWNER, Robert Barrat
Good all-round acting and realistic
sequences in a flooded mine overcome
the disadvantages of the trite plot in
this opus, which is apparently based on
an epic rescue in Canada a year or two
ago when two men (one a doctor) were
rescued after having been entombed for
nearly a fortnight.
When a young draegerman (a “rescue”
man) blows the gaff about the rotten
state of the pit timbers in his mine he
anticipates being fired, so, taking a hearty
sock at the flinty-hearted mineowner’s
jaw and a fond farewell of his sweetie,
daughter of the town doctor, he departs
for a near-by district. But the doc.,
desperate for the wherewithal to have his
crippled chee-ild operated on by a top-
notch fancy-fee surgeon, reluctantly gives
an option over his goldmine to the
capitalistic octopus that runs the adjacent
rotten-propped mine. It is when the doc.,
the octopus and his foreman descend the
mine to inspect the security that some
justification for the film is established.
The mine caves in. Rescue scenes are
vividly portrayed, and the methods
adopted are interesting. Naturally the
virile jaw-socker, hearing that his pro-
spective pa-in-law is trapped under-
ground, dashes back to cover himself
with glory. At Sydney Capitol.
“Fifty Roads to Town.”
FUGITIVE PLAYBOY, Don Ameche
ELOPING SOCIETY GAL,
Ann Sothern
GANGSTER Douglas Fowley
PEASANT Slim Summerville
SHERIFF John Qualen
A piece of scenario carpentry combin-
ing bits of “Seven Keys to Baldpate,”
“Petrified Forest” and other box-office
best-sellers. Ameche is a society youth
who must disappear from the city to
avoid embroilment in a divorce suit.
Miss Sothern is a beautiful lunatic who
rushes off in a high-speed roadster in her
nightie (plus fur coat) to elope with a
night-club crooner. Each believing the
other to be a pursuer, this pair play hide-
and-seek on the high roads in cars cap-
able of upwards of 90 m.p.h. Eventually
they take refuge in semi-deserted summer
hotel and later in a luxurious forest
cabin, quite deserted. A desperate gang-
ster is abroad, with a posse of rural
police at his heels, and Mr. Ameche is
mistaken for this gunman, who, after ter-
rorising the romantic pair, makes off in
Ameche’s car. Then, of course, the
sheriff’s posse bombard the forest cabin,
so that Mr. Ameche and Miss Sothern
can declare their love while crouching
on the floor. All this is trimmed with
lashings of bedroom-comedy and a scene
in which the young lady gets tight and
endeavors to seduce the young man.
Such charming people! At Sydney
Capitol.
“Laughing Irish Eyes.”
SINGING BLACKSMITH, Phil Regan
FIGHT PROMOTER .. Walter C. Kelly
HIS LOVELY DAUGHTER,
Evalyn Knapp
At the commencement it looks as if
this were to be a fast-moving comedy.
The young blacksmith with the pleasant
tenor voice is plucked from his native vil-
lage in County Cork by an American
fight promoter who labors under the
erroneous impression that his find is a
celebrated Irish bruiser. But before he
can get to America the young fellow has
to warble a long ditty in his smithy, an-
other on a jaunting car, another at a sing-
ing competition at Cork Fair and yet an-
other in farewell to his dear old grey-
haired mother. Reaching the liner at
long last ho takes the girl to the rail in
the moonlight and sings to her. By this
time it is apparent that this is not a
comedy but a one-man opera. The hero
remarks at one stage that John McCor-
mack made a lot more money than John
L. Sullivan. True, but a Sullivan is worth
10 McCormacks as film material in the
eyes of the average cinema audience—
one of many points which those respon-
sible for this long-winded, slow-moving,
unconvincing fantasia seem to have over-
looked. At Sydney Lyric.
“Big Business.”
DAD Jed Prouty
MUM Spring Byington
GRAN Florence Roberts
THE, KIDS .... Shirley Deane, Kenneth
Howell, June Carlson, George
Ernest and Billy Mahan
ELDEST GIRL’S YOUNG MAN,
Russel Gleason
Despite such descents into caricature
as the simple-minded pomposity of Dad
and the languishing romantics of the
younger daughter, the Jones Family
has become a very popular screen
feature. Their adventures, however
highly spiced, have the common touch,
and sympathy with these good-hearted
but very human people comes easily. In
their latest appearance Dad falls into the
toils of a pair of go-getters (Allan Lane
and Frank Conroy), who induce him to
speculate in oil stocks and to induce all
his small-town cronies to speculate, too.
It is eldest son Jack, as inventor of an im-
proved supercharger, who comes to the
rescue this time,, backed by the sound
commercial sense of second son Roger.
The uncapping of an oil-bore (which dis-
charges nothing but water and mud) and
a wild race against time in a car with
an engine that can do 100 m.p.h. but
cannot safely be braked are part of the
story, one of the most acceptable of the
series. At Sydney Regent.
“Go West, Youing Man.”
FILM STAR Mae West
HER MANAGER .... Warren William
STAGE-STRUCK SERVANT,
Isabel Jewell
HONEST MECHANIC, Randolph Scott
FARM WOMEN .. Elizabeth Patterson
and Alice Brady
The buxom Mae wears terrible clothes,
her fidgeting is contagious and her act-
ing no better than usual, yet she produces
a laugh a minute at Melbourne Capitol.
A film star engaged on a personality
appearance tour and addicted to mala-
propisms, she arrives at a farmhouse,
her car, as big as a cottage, having broken
down. Her effect on the inhabitants is
devastating, and occasionally she gets so
sick of them that she goes off “to com-
mute with herself.” Bud, the young
mechanic, is hit sideways, but an old boy-
friend of the star’s is in the background,
and her manager is a jealous admirer.
She finishes up in his arms. He almost
eats her.
STAGE SHOWS.
Tito Schipa Greets Sydney.
Sydney audiences will like the brisk,
forthright manner in which Tito Schipa,
who opened at the Town Hall on Satur-
day night, goes about the business in
hand. Pleasant of manner, he revealed


JOHN DOES THIS EVERY FEW WEEKS
HEAVY RADIO
CCUMUUTOR TO
TOWN AND
sdf
—but his neighbour
buys an
A\S;
ct^„
® Ple .1 HO
o,t
m\
1
m
m
Country folk need no longer
envy city people their All-Elec-
tric Sets. Air Cell operated
Radio is every bit as conve-
nient and reliable because it
is equipped with the new
Eveready Air Cell, which needs
no recharging—gives over a
year of trouble-free "life"—
maintains constant voltage at
the correct level for perfect re-
ception—and needs no atten-
tion at all.
Air Cell operated models are
available under the following
well-known brands
STRQMBERG-CARLSON
BRITON
STERLING
S.T.C.
TASMA
PARAMOUNT
ECLIPSE
KREISLER
ZENITH
GENALEX
SYMFONA
LEKMEK
WELDON
BREVILLE
ARISTOCRAT (E.S.M.)
SEA3B
ƒs
fsdf
THE EVER READY CO. (AUSTRALIA) LTD., SYDNEY
himself a fine singer, strongly armed at
every vocal point. A typical product of
the Italian bel canto school, he revels
in legato and the half-voice, and,
although his rich tone is lyric in quality,
he can when occasion demands turn on
a great burst of volume. Without any
dying-duck affectations, the tenor sings
as if he liked doing it, and he does so
with artistry and a minimum of effort.
His voice should still be unimpaired 20
years hence. His enunciation and attack
are excellent, and never by a fraction
does he deviate from the middle of the
note.
Each song of his opening group was
a stiff test in mezzo voce, but his inter-
pretation of Pergolese’s “Nina” was suffi-
cient to establish his mastery over this
phase. Handel’s “Largo” and “Where’er
You Walk” and Scarlatti’s “La Violette”
were delivered with flowing grace and
ease. In the operatic section “La Reve,”
from Massanet’s “Manon,” gave the
singer further scope for the half-voice,
but in Donizetti’s difficult “Una Furtiva
Lagrima” he let himself go to good
effect. The lively “M’Appari” from
“Martha” was given spiritedly.
In ballads Signor Schipa was equally
at home. Bateman’s “My Dream’s Day”
and Rogers’s “At Parting” were sung in
excellent English, and Padilla’s “Prin-
cesita,” Tosti’s captivating “Marechiare ’
and the singer’s own melodious composi-
tion, “Serenata Matutina,” rounded off a
well-varied programme. Encores were
vociferously demanded and liberally
given.
Federico Longas proved an able ac-
companist, and in several solos a highly-
accomplished pianist.
q« q. q. q.
Gimpel Paddles His Own Canoe.
Jacob Gimpel, violinist Huberman’s
associate, gave a recital of his own at
Sydney Con. Hall on Thursday night. He
was most impressive in a tastefully-
shaded performance of the Bach-Busoni
C Major Toccata and Fugue. Beet-
hoven’s Op. 10 No. 3 Sonata was given
faithful traditional treatment, but save
for the beautiful menuetto it sounded
dry. A Mozart rondo, an encore piece,
was gracefully played. In Chopin’s B
Minor Sonata the pianist avoided sloppy
sentiment. Debussy’s “L’lsle Joyeuse,” a
couple of Scriabine etudes and Albeniz’s
“Triana” were cleverly done.
Gimpel’s virtues as a pianist are clarity
and logic. He is never under the neces-
sity of pedal-blurring a tricky passage,
and his style is manly and straight-
forward, conceding that Bach, Beethoven
and Chopin knew their business and that
their signposts should be respected. But
his playing as a soloist is neither very
inspired nor very inspiring.
q. q. q. q.
“Over She Goes.”
“Over She Goes,” a musical comedy
that isn’t a revival of a play with a
venerable Australian record, was dared
by the Firm at His Majesty’s, Mel-
bourne, on Saturday night and was
accorded a warm reception. The musical
numbers have already been made known
through broadcasting, but the staging is
needed to give the Desmond Carter and
Frank Eyton lyrics their proper setting.
Ballets are comparatively short and ad-
mirably snappy, and the story is happily
modern. Instead of a brigands’ retreat
in some mid-European mountain, the
setting is an English county home, and
the change from peculiar peasant cos-
tumes to present-day suitings is almost
startling after the musical comedy fare
which looked like becoming an Australian
tradition.
An English girl, Valerie Hay, and
two Americans, Donald Burr and Billie
Worth, make a happy enough Australian
debut. Each acts in finished style,
though their singing voices are somewhat
disappointing. Miss Worth is an especi-
ally clever dancer. Percy le Fre teams
with George Gee—they play the parts of
two members of a vaudeville act —and,
with the lively Lois Green in a typical
role, they take characteristic advantage
of hilarious lines and situations. Enid
Hollins, after considerable experience in
Melbourne dramatic productions, does
well in her first musical comedy appear-
ance. As the police inspector and the
sergeant in the “We Police” number,
John Dobbie and Ken Tuckfield get a lot
out of limited opportunity. In “The
Dance Goes On,” William O’Neal, with
Lois Green and chorus, provides a splen-
did number. O’Neal’s singing is out-
standing. The title number, sung by the
six principals, is another that will be re-
membered.
•j*
“Behold We Live.”
John van Druten’s “Behold We Live”
requires very sympathetic playing and
received it when produced at Melbourne
Garrick by the Y.A.L. Players. Eric L.
Morris’s cast was well chosen and well
trained. In the first scene, Ella Bromley
looked a bit too healthily sane to be a
distraught young wife contemplating
suicide, but for the rest of the piece
her Sarah Cazenove was played with
feeling and human touches that lent it
realism. She was saved from suicide and
her swinish husband—well played by
Stanley Hollins —through the common-
sense and calmness of Gordon Evers,
K.C., in which part producer Morris got
by more than creditably. Frances Dillon,
always at ease, was excellent as the
shrewd and kindly mother. Pat Henry
was thorough as Jewel Stribling, one of
those gabbling, dieting, scatterbrained
women who appear to exist for the sole
purpose of providing dramatists with
light comedy. Keith Hadden, as poor
Mr. Stribling, and Alma Smith, as Sarah’s
housekeeper, completed a strong cast.
q. q. q. q.
Huberman in Melbourne.
A still little man, Huberman wandered
on and off the platform at Melbourne
Town Hall on Saturday in an inconse-
quential way, as if the platform, the
audience and the programme existed
somewhere deep down in his unconscious
and his fiddle had got into his hand by
accident. But there was nothing un-
conscious about his playing.
In conjunction with his excellent
accompanist, Jacob Gimpel, he played the
“Kreutzer” with a mingled tenderness
and fire which has seldom been equalled
in present writer’s experience, and he
brought out the strange architecture of
Bach’s Adagio and Fugue in G minor
from the unaccompanied sonata with an
extraordinary vehemence. After the
interval he played the Concerto in E
minor in which Mendelssohn staked out
a claim on more melodies than any com-
poser has a right to, with the result that
minor composers have been dipping into
his surplus riches ever since. The small
items at the finish included two works by
Huberman’s fellow-countryman Szyman-
owski, and, although they were not in
the same class as the preceding, he made
them seem almost as significant. The
queer effects of the “Fountain of Are-
thusa” brought long rounds of applause
from the audience, and Chopin, Brahms
and the encores added fuel to its en-
thusiasm.
•J#
Schneevoigt Says Good-bye to Melbourne.
Everybody enjoyed Professor Schnee-
voigt’s farewell appearance at Melbourne
Town Hall in a programme of the
younger Johann Strauss’s music, admir-
ably rendered by the A.B.C. Orchestra.
They stamped their feet to the facile
waltz rhythms and vehemently applauded.
But if the A.B.C. feels inclined to con-
gratulate itself on the use to which it has
put its visiting conductor, it ought to
ask itself why the hall was half-empty,
although the event was billed as “popu-
lar.”
The A.B.C. has only slight experience
of the concert-going public, and the
private entrepreneurs and impresarios
could probably tell it a bit about the
matter. The concert-going public likes
to get something intellectual for its
money, and a concert is “popular” with
it to the degree that it feels that it has
been in the presence of something bigger
than itself; in the presence of Johann
Strauss, however much it may like him,
it feels far too comfortable to be stimu-
lated. It can hear the same sort of music
at its local cinema any evening.
If the A.B.C. wanted to make a hit,
which is evidently what it expected, it
should have announced that Professor
Schneevoigt was going to conduct an
exclusive Beethoven or Wagner pro-
gramme, or brought out Johann’s illus-
trious namesake, Richard. Then it would
undoubtedly have succeeded. This is
not to say that the guest conductor didn’t
do his job magnificently and seemed to
enjoy the doing of it extremely, or that
the orchestra was unresponsive.
q. q. q. q.
“The Streets of London.”
Bellowdrammer to the nth degree, the
same that allegedly made grandpa grip
his chair sides and hiss the villain as
that caitiff walked sidewise like a crab
and twirled his black and sinister
moustache, was let loose in all its fierce-
ness at Sydney Royal last week. Claimed
to be given exactly as played in the first
half of the Victorian era, it was an inter-
esting experiment in how 1937 audiences
would react to the 1856 vintage of stage
productions. The never - darken - my-
doors-again stuff has been burlesqued so
often that hilarity would seem the logi-
cal reaction. But the piece fell between
two stools. Laughs there were, of course,
at the dastard’s stagey scheming, the
hero’s stilted uprightness and the hero-
ine’s incessant howling, yet at times the
audience fell under the spell of the play’s
serious side. The fact is that uproarious
burlesque has made the original seem
merely a very mild burlesque; conse-
quently the laughs don’t assay very
highly.
Cecil Perry as the hero, Victor Fitzher-
bert as the gent, who glints malignantly
from under bushy eyebrows and Bertie
Wright as the villain’s bete noire did
their best with it.
v ►!* v -I-
Adelaide Rep. Does a Barrie Play.
At the time of Barrie’s death Adelaide
Repertory was reviving to “capacity”
houses at the Tivoli “What Every
Woman Knows,” and Talbot Smith, the
president, pronounced his eulogy from
the stage. The old comedy, of a wife
driving from the back seat, so to speak,
“dates” very little as Alex. Foster pro-
duces it. The role of the wife gave a
personal triumph to Agnes Dobson,
whose experience made every line and
movement tell. Robert Matthews was
joyful, too, as the bumptious husband
whom she quietly controls, and Lilian
Pritchard as the elderly good fairy with
a French accent who watches over them.
Fred James was sound as a Cabinet
Minister, and Glennon, McCarron and
Aldridge were the verra-Scawtch rela-
tions.
q. q. q. q.
Melbourne Lunch-time Concerts.
Lack of money doesn’t mean lack of
good music in Melbourne nowadays. The
latest of William McKie’s free lunch-time
concerts at the Town Hall had a full
hall, with crowds coming and going be-
tween the items, which included the
lovely “Quartersatz” of Schubert, the ex-
quisite “Variations on the Emperor’s
Hymn” of Haydn, the Debussy “Scherzo”
and Tschaikowsky’s “Humoreske” played
by a string quartet composed of Hyman
Lenzer, Franz Schieblich, Mischa Kogan
and Don Howey. The highlight of the
programme was the Mozart Quintet in
A minor, which had the services of Tim
White as clarinetist. The piece was well
within his compass, and he brought out
the pure tones of his instrument with
unusual fullness, although the Town Hall
isn't the best place 'or a chamber music
recital.
CURRENT^ARTBURSTS.
Maud Sherwood’s Water-colors.
In a certain class of subjects Maori-
lander Maud Sherwood’s strongly indi-
vidual style compasses, in water-color,
effects more richly beautiful than are
obtainable by any other Australasian in
any medium. She commands a fluidity
of line that is all her pwn, and her com-
positions seem to float and flow. In her
current show at the Macquarie Galleries,
Sydney, these qualities are best exempli-
fied in such drawings as “Part of the
Fishing Fleet” and “The Two Boats,”
gems of vivid color the. interest of which
is enhanced by the clever treatment of
reflections. In “A Wet Day Near Tunis,”
a market-place scene, the crowd has life
and movement as well as color. “A
Guide, Tunis,” is a splendidly vigorous
figure study. Flowers also blossom
pleasingly under the Sherwood brush, as
exemplified in three excellent water-color
studies and a trio of charming lino-cuts.
In landscape Mrs. Sherwood is less
successful than in marine, flower and
costume pieces, but her water-color efforts
in this field are luminous and cheerful.
Especially gay is the lighting of “The
Road Through the Farm,” and that this
handling of such effects is independent of
color is proved in a large charcoal draw-
ing, “Entrance to Torre Quattro Venti.”
“Vegetation” is strongly reminiscent of
Sargent’s style in this sort of scene, a
masterly interplay of direct and reflected
light.
After the water-colors the oils, thirteen
of which are on view, are mostly disap-
pointing. The fluidity and transparency
that make the water-colors delightful dis-
appear, and the good, strong modelling
that might redeem the oils from com-
monplaceness is in evidence only in “The
Osborne Memorial Church” and “The
Silo.” But even these do not click.


Don't let that
cold develop
&
2
INHALANT
It you are subject to colds
and catarrh, keep Vapex
handy to use immediately
you feel the first symptoms
in pose or throat. Breathe
Vapex frequently ... the
germicidal vapour quickly
destroys the germs where
they are beginning to breed
and to multiply, and soon
the incipient cold or catarrh
is gone.
Of all Chemists
MADE IN ENGLAND BY
THOMAS KERFOOT & CO. LTD.
and sold throughout the world
Corns Sentenced to Death .
Corns have worried you—now worry them:
although “worry” is hardly the word, for
A’CORN SILK does not trifle with corns, but
ruthlessly kills them. How comfortable your
feet feel after A’CORN SILK has removed
all your soft or hard corns —a 6d. packet will
do this for you without pain or inconvenience.
Corns are killed while you sleep—a matter of
a few hours. Chemists sell A’CORN SILK at
6d. per packet. Packed by Felton, Grim wade
and Duerdins, Ltd., Melbourne.
Personal and Missing Friends.
CROOK.—STANLEY ERIC CROOK (son of
Walter Horsley Samuel Crook and Alice Maud
Crook, nee Lake), or any person knowing his
whereabouts, kindly communicate with the
PUBLIC TRUSTEE, 14 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney. Moneys are held for him by the
Public Trujstee.
Great Cough Remedy
Wonderful Money-saver.
For the last twenty years millions of
Australians have saved much money by
making their own family cough and
influenza remedy with HEENZO. It is
so easy to add a two-shilling bottle of
concentrated HEENZO to sweetened
water, and thus make a large supply
of cough remedy equal in quantity and
superior in quality to about £l’s worth
of the best of the ready-made-up
remedies for chest and throat ailments.
The purity of HEENZO makes it an ideal
cough remedy for babies as well as adults
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
A wing has been added to the Women's
College within the University, and on an
afternoon of brilliant sunshine last week
this was opened by Lady Wakehurst.
Principal Camilla Wedgwood was in full
academicals for the occasion, and there
was a flutter of students in their black
gowns and a great assemblage of Syd-
ney’s learned. There were four present
who remembered the beginning of things.
They were Sarah Hynes, Mary Fairfax,
Margaret Windeyer and knight Francis
Anderson, who had been on the collecting
committee when the college had its start.
In those days it was thought impossible
for a woman to be a B.A. without being
a bluestocking. Sarah in the later part
of the proceedings made a bright little
speech touching on the work of the prin-
cipals of the college: Louisa Macdonald,
who was at the helm over 40 years ago ;
Susan Williams (for whom the new wing
has been named), now guiding the new
Women’s College at Melbourne Uni-
versity, and Camilla Wedgwood, who is
noted as an anthropologist.
Before Lady Wakehurst opened the
door with its little silver key speeches
were made stressing the importance of the
college lecture and tutorial systems.
Finally the vice-regal lady stepped into
the leading role and planted a Chinese
elm in the quadrangle. She is the third
vice-regal lady to have turned up the
sod thereabouts. Lady Game and Lady
de Chair both did their bit of tree-plant-
ing on past occasions. The new wing can
shelter 14 students. Polished wood floors,
an ivory-and-green color scheme and
much built-in furniture are features
throughout its bright airiness.
Mrs. F. J. Davy, secretary of N.S.W.
and All-Australia Women’s Hockey, was
up with the lark the other morning and
down to the Heads in the pilot boat to
welcome the Anglo-Scottish team. Not
bad going after being at a dance the
night before. It was one of Sydney’s
windless, golden mornings, and most of
the team was on deck watching the fore-
shores unclose, murmuring over the
Bridge, and seeing that their rising-sun
badges, in almost every case topped off
with emu feathers, were fixed securely.
Oh, yes, you’ve guessed it. They travelled
to Australia in the same ship as the re-
turning warriors. Mayoress Parkes gave
the visitors a morning reception accom-
panied by tea and brief speeches. One of
the speeches was made by the Mayor.
Lady Wakehurst had wanted to give
the girls an afternoon party, but the time-
table couldn’t tuck it in, so the vice-
reine received them at Government
House, where they took in the smiling
view. Their eyes were still filled with that
when they arrived at the Australia for the
N.S.W. Women’s Hockey Association’s
reception. This was all hockey, from
president Dr. Marie Hamilton at
the door to the very end of the
room where Tory Wicks, one of
the State’s redoubtables, was being
complimented on her first essay in dress-
making—the neat composition in green
which she was wearing. All the hockey
hostesses came, Miss Fairfax very
smiling, Mrs. Grace very enthusiastic
over the game, Mayoress Parkes, a
rather late comer, dressed for the dinner
and dance, to which she was hurrying.
Camilla Wedgwood, the Walder lady,
Nancy Jobson and Dr. Mary Booth were
there, all looking pleased over the girls
they had bagged as guests. Mrs. F. J.
Davy was very smart, a gold blouse glit-
tering under the coat of her black sheet
suit. Woollahra’s Mayoress was a
nibbler of savories. Olive King and
Florence Bennett were others.
For once there is a committee which
does not expect to get up a pageant and
ball in about six weeks. The Centuries
Ball to aid St. John Ambulance will not
be held till November, yet work has
already started, and the costumes have
been decided on. They will represent the
fashion headlines of each 100 years from
the eleventh to the twentieth century. The
men will also wear the long black cloaks
and carry the cross of St. John. Mrs.
Bertie Kelly is the organiser, and the
scheme of the pageant is hers. The Kelso
King lady, and the Alexander Gordon
lady are on the committee; so are Mrs.
Norman Macleod and Mrs. Edmond
Meyer. Ruby Adams and Mrs. Hugh
Poate are giving a hand; so is Mrs.
Greenway Middows, who is a Lady of
the Order of St. John of Jerusalem.
The Victoria Leaguers spread a de luxe
morning-tea for the visiting hockey girls.
Beautiful flowers, crackling fires and sun-
filled rooms greeted them at Elizabeth
Bay House, where the reception-room
and the adjoining ballroom were a quick
staccato of talk. Eileen Ward, captain
of the team, was the recipient of a large-
size kookaburra. Kitty Blaxland met
some of her Australian illations for the
first time, and at the afternoon picnic to
Palm Beach she met an aunt, Mrs.
Walter Blaxland, who, with Mrs. Peters,
entertained the whole picnic party at tea.
Eileen Gunnell is the tall girl of the
team. Her five-foot-ten looks smilingly
down at all the other players.
Elsie Brammell, assistant-ethnologist at
the Australian Museum, has for her men-
tal playground Australia, New Guinea
and the Pacific generally. She is an
authority on the aborigine, is secretary
and a member of the council of the An-
thropological Society of N. S. Wales,
and was a delegate to the Science Con-
gress held recently in Maoriland. Other
items about her are a pleasant voice and
a modest theory that anything she
achieves is just part of her job. Monte
Luke photograph.
Once again it was proved that all Syd-
ney loves a tenor. All roads seemed to
lead to the Town Hall on Saturday
night, and Romans (or maybe some of
them were from Naples and Venice and
Sicily) were on them all, for fellow-coun-
tryman Tito Schipa was lifting up his
voice of moonlight and tincture of roses.
Plain Australians went, too, and nobody
noticed the night’s chill, but everybody
noticed the fringe of lounge chairs, four
deep, that edged the middle aisle. These
gave those who sat in them a meek and
lowly air, while a woman sitting on the
old cane chair immediately next felt as
exalted as though she were driving a han-
som-cab. Tito has a flashing smile and
a bow whose finale demonstrates that his
heart is in the right place. His waist
decidedly is. In his lapel he wore several
decorations, and one or two wondered if
any was the Papal order conferred on
him for the religious compositions from
his pen.
An enthusiastic house became raptur-
ous when he pressed to his lips the
Italian colors which tied the laurel wreath.
The Governor-General’s lady came to
this concert. Her frock of carnation-red
velvet was accompanied by a coat of the
same shade. With her were Mrs. L.
Bracegirdle and Mollie Street. With
Mrs. Norris were Mrs. Porter and daugh-
ter Claire, and in a row behind the vice-
regal group were Mrs. Sep Levy, Mrs.
Hugh Poate and Jimmy Bancks. A good-
looking daughter with a good-looking
mother was Gloria Moore Cosgrave.
Diamente buttons twinkled on Mrs.
Doris Olding’s burgundy velvets. Among
handsome listeners was Mrs. Bertie Kelly.
The A.B.C. poured cocktails in greet-
ing to Georg Schneevoigt, the Finnish
guest conductor, who arrived full of en-
thusiasm for Perth musicians. Mrs.
Claude Couchman, the only woman on
the A.B.C. Commission, was among the
guests who crowded into the Gloucester
Room of the Australia. The Consul for
Finland, the Consul for Norway and
Mrs. de Noskowski and Chief A.B.
Commissioner Cleary and his wife were
among those who murmured “Wel-
come ! ”
Three people from Adelaide are join-
ing forces in a recital that is dated for
the 28th at the Conservatorium. They
are Phyllis Burnard, whose husband
Alex, will be at the piano, and Miriam
Hyde. Dr. Burnard, who came to the
Sydney from the Adelaide Conser-
vatorium, is in charge of the composition
classes at the Macquarie-street institution.
Mrs. Burnard, a soprano, will sing
modern English works as well as early
Italian, English and French songs.
Miriam, who has started a series of lec-
tures on music at the Y.W.C.A., will
feature Beethoven and Chopin. Photo-
graph from Peter Pan.
Another note from Lord Beauchamp,
this time from Paris, tells of a city
brighter than ever for the Exposition.
This had not got over its opening spasm,
and the international city on the banks
of the Seine was attracting thousands of
Poles, Germans, Swiss, Danes, Norse and
Swedes, as well as English and Ameri-
cans. An interesting point was that im-
ported workmen could not be employed
on the buildings except as key-men. The
celebrated architect Van de Velde de-
signed the Belgian building, which is
very fine. The Papal State is represented
by the Peace building, in the style of a
cathedral.
In the cabarets and music-halls the
girls wear so little an envelope would
almost contain their costume. The best
time to go to his favorite cabaret is at
three or four in the morning, and as he
always wakes up about that time the
writer thinks he might begin to go there
for an early breakfast. Sydney’s old
friend Hugh D. Mclntosh has a milk
bar at the Exposition, in a very good
site under the Eiffel Tower. The Ger-
man restaurant is delightful and very
popular. One of its specials is cham-
pagne in which a peach, well pricked,
has been put. Lord Beauchamp’s daugh-
ter Dorothy was with him, and the two
went off in the Berengaria to Richmond
in Virginia to meet two thousand distant
cousins, offspring of those Corbyns and
Lygons who left Madresfield in the reign
of Charles I.
'ln the Australian pavilion at the Ex-
hibition are a number of colorless opals
and a collection of timbers. In the
middle there is a large table with colored
panels which are, presumably, lit up at
night. There is a fine landscape by
Streeton, a characteristic water-color by
Norman Lindsay, and a good piece of
work by Eldershaw. Gruner has one or
two things, including a card reproduc-
tion, and there are also a picture of the
unfinished Sydney Harbor Bridge, dated
1930.. and, very oddly, two or three books
of the Editions de l’Oiseau Lyre, Paris.
Every visitor is presented with a color-
ful advertisement of Australia. The
cover shows a gentleman, presumably
Capt. Cook, in a cocked hat, a powdered
wig and the epaulettes of high-sea com-
mand gazing upon a modern city. There
are slim-waisted nymphs playing upon
beaches edged by some tropic-looking
foliage that’s not about Sydney. There
are a leaping kangaroo, the massive arch
of the bridge and wagons laden with wool
and grain. There’s letterpress telling of
our splendid climate and outdoor sports.
N. S. Wales hockey girls got both cash
and credit out of their match with the
Anglo-Scottish lasses on Saturday. Gate
money was a record, and treasurer Miss
Friend smilingly totted up £6O. The play
was in University Square, and the home
team won 6-2. Lady Gowrie was a keen
onlooker. Mrs. Mowll was there, and
so was the Bishop of Adelaide. All the
hostesses of the visiting team arrived
and brought friends. Mayoress Parkes,
Education Minister Drummond and Mrs.
Drummond, president Dr. Marie Hamil-
ton and secretary Mrs. F. J. Davy were
among the pleasantly excited; so were
ex-Chief Justice Street and his wife. After
the play Camilla Wedgwood took about
40 importants, including Miss Fairfax,
off to the Women’s College for tea. Flags
used in the match were the work of
Clarice Caldwell. The last bit of fun was
the dinner at the Carlton, when hockey
girls turned up as glossy as to plumage,
as curled to the last hair, as Lenci dolls.
Marjorie Hambridge, who went off to
Europe (this time to Paris) last Saturday
to continue her violin studies, said her
good-byes to Sydney friends at an out-
size in tea parties at the Royal Empire
Society’s rooms. The young hostess and
her mother stood against a background
of roses, camellias and carnations to re-
ceive their guests and later to be photo
graphed. Marjorie’s smartly-tailored
tunic suit was horizon blue and, with her
dashing cap and cravat of grey Persian
lamb, had a distinctly Cossack effect.
Mrs. Hambridge’s black ensemble
bloomed with a rich cluster of violets.
France’s Vice-Consul Meyer and his wife
were at the party. A dyed squirrel cravat
finished off the dark-blue redingote worn
by Mrs. Meyer. Under her sleek black
coat Mrs. Norman Macleod wore a
redingote of fine black sheer opening on
a front panel of Paisley. The clasp of
her coat was in silver and came from
middle Europe. Each side was weighted
by a round silver bell, from which three
little flat beaten and embossed bells fell
jingling. A smart girl was Jocelyn Target;
another was flying-girl Margaret Adams.
Her mother was there looking bright and
alert. Very smart rust tailorings were
worn by Mrs. Ken Prior. Edith Prior
added brown and Mrs. S. H. Prior black
suits and millinery. The Conserva-
torium Baintons, Mrs. Lindley Evans
and composer Miriam Hyde were among
the musical. Mrs. A. G. Thomas was
snug in black furs.
When you’ve seen Maud Sherwood’s
show you’ll agree that it was right that a
poet should open such an avenue of
color and light, of tree and flower. Dame
Mary Gilmore’s speech last Wednesday
was worthy the gladness around her, and
the crowds in the Macquarie Galleries
endorsed her sentiments by prolonged
applause. The artist, a nice color com-
position in her two tones of blue, her
profile and blue eyes set off by a dash-
ing tam beret, held quite a levee. Un-
obtrusively one or two Gallery trustees
sleuthed around the walls. Roland
Wakelin was one of the congratulators.
The Sinclair Gillies and the Clarence
Read couples were there.
Mrs. Sherwood’s picture of the
Osborne Memorial Church at Dapto
was the subject of much comment.
An art enthusiast pointed out that
Elioth Gruner, Maud Sherwood and
Roland Wakelin were all from Maori-
land. A woman in huge chamois gloves,
hand-stitched in black, remarked that gaz-
ing at the hibiscus was as good as a trip
to Fiji. Everybody in the art world was
there, including Mary Edwards, who is
starting a portrait of Mrs. Norman
Macleod, dressed in Latvian costume,
headdress and all.


sdfsdf
RADIO
m
m
y
im
■ •
Rational Radio is built up to a quality. The high standard of
Rational Radio demands components which will give the brilliance of
performance and clarity of tone which a fastidious public demands.
The range of Rational Radio comprises outstanding examples of what
modern manufacturing methods can obtain in the production of a
receiver at a rational price.
There is a Rational Radio to suit every purse and every purpose, and
each is available on Rational Hire Purchase Terms at remarkably low
prices.
ECONOMY OF OPERATION
In the construction of all Rational Battery Receivers particular
attention has been paid to economy of operation, and, with the
addition to all models of an economy switch, to switch off dial lights
when not required, a remarkable degree of economy has been
obtained.
The “A” Battery consumption of Models 5 and 6, without dial
lights, is only .47 amp., and Model 7, .52 amp., whilst the
“B” Battery drain of these Models is 12 ma. when the batteries are
fresh.
No “C” Batteries are required, as bias is automatically provided.
All Rational Radio Receivers are supplied with a 2-volt “A” Battery,
with the extremely high capacity of 145 ampere-hours, and three
45-volt Super dyne “B ,? Batteries.
N.B. —As the “B” Batteries age, there is a natural decrease in “B” Battery consumption,
but all receivers will operate satisfactorily on as low as 60 volts with a current consump-
tion of 6 ma.
REMARKABLY CLEAR
OVERSEAS RECEPTION
in all Rational Dual Wave Receivers the frequency converter
(Octode KK2) I* thoroughly decoupled with an 8 mfd. electrolytic
condenser which completely eliminates frequency instability on the
short waves —particularly below 25 metres—-assuring remarkably
clear overseas reception.
BATTERY MODELS.
Model 5. 5-Valve Battery Broadcast,
with R.F. amplification, full A.V.C., low
battery consumption and economy switch
to switch off dial lights when not required.
Model 6. 5-Valve Battery Dual-Wave,
with tone control, Bin. permag speaker,
full A.V.C., low battery consumption and
economy switch on both bands. Short-
wave band 18.5/51 metres.
Model 7. —6-Valve Battery Dual-Wave,
with A.V.C., lOin. permag speaker, tone
control, economy switch on both bands,
low battery consumption. Short-wave
band 18.5/51 metres.
Model 15. 4-Valve Battery Broadcast,
with high gain intermediate and audio
stages ensuring daylight reception, full
A.V.C., low battery consumption and
economy switch to switch off dial lights
when not required. Mantel cabinet.
©
ALL BATTERY MODELS ARE AVAILABLE
WITH THE EVER-READY AIR-CELL.
Rational Radio Receivers for A.C. and
A.C./D.C. operation are available in a com-
prehensive range.
All Rational Radio Receivers are available at
Rational Prices on Rational Purchase Terms
from your radio retailer.
Briton Electrical and Radio Pty. Ltd.
152-156 PARRAMATTA ROAD, PETERSHAM, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Telephone L 3621 (3 lines).
METROPOLITAN DISTRIBUTORS:
Harris Radio, Ltd., 10th Floor, Grace
Building, Cnr. York and King Streets, Sydney.
QUEENSLAND DISTRIBUTORS:
Irvine Radio and Electrical Co., 111 Elizabeth
Street, Brisbane.


S he’s a sparkling
success now ...
At one time people thought her dull
because she seldom smiled, but she’s
not afraid to smile now since someone
told her that powder polished teeth
to perfection. All dentifrices contain
some powder that’s what does
the cleaning, but Calvert’s is ALL
POWDER that’s why it makes your
teeth gleam and sparkle ALWAYS.
F. C. Calvert & Co., Ltd., England.
CALVERT’S
carbolic TOOTH POWDER
For Sale.
BREAD. —Make it cheaper at home with
Florylin Yeast Plus. Send 3d. for trial samples
or 3/- for |lb. tin, making 55 large loaves at
6d. per Ioaf.—TRADING & AGENCY CO.,
South Melbourne, 5.C.4.
Engagement.
THE engagement is announced between
ANGUS HARGREAVES, son of the late Mr.
Richard Robinson and Mrs. Robinson, of
Coohys, Western Australia, and CYNTHIA
JOYCE, only daughter of Mr. and Mrs. D. J.
Finden Crofts, of Worthing, England.
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1027 of 1937.
BETWEEN MARY LOUISA KELLY Peti-
tioner.
And EDWARD FRANCIS KELLY Re-
spondent.
TO EDWARD FRANCIS KELLY late of
Narrandera. .
TAKE NOTICE that the said MARY
LOUISA KELLY has commenced a suit against
you in this Honorable Court and is applying
for a dissolution of marriage on the ground
of desertion for three years and upwards without
just cause or excuse And take notice that
you are required to enter an appearance to
the said suit at the proper office of this
Honorable Court on or before the Thirtieth
day of September. One thousand nine hun-
dred and thirty-seven and in the event of your
not doing so within the time limited or obtain-
ing further time the petition will proceed and
the suit be heard and determined your absence
notwithstanding. A copy of the petition hied
herein may be had on application to the unde-
signed free of charge.
DATED this 7th day of July, 1937.
For the Registrar,
(1.5.) C. A. H. HARMS,
Clerk in Divorce.
L. L. HENDERSON, Solicitor for the Peti-
tioner, Narrandera; by his Sydney Agent,
C. THROSBY YOUNG, Solicitor, 26 O Con-
nell Street, Sydney.
Melbourne
Chatter
Furs running into thousands of pounds
were paraded at Flemington on Satur-
day. Silver foxes ran riot. Not content
with slinging a couple of skins over their
shoulders, some women had silver fox
running down the front of their coats
from neck to hem. There was such a
profusion and variety of orchids pinned
into luxury furs that the flowers and
the pelts made a fashion display on their
own. Mrs. Frank Denny (Kathleen
Ahearn that was), who has lived abroad
since her marriage, greeted old friends.
Her black coat was decked with oyster-
colored fox fur, forming a point at the
back and ending up as sleeve draperies.
The Knox lady, with one shoulder
smothered in orchids, brought Rosemary
out to see the Steeple, the daughter clad
in the grey fur which goes by the name
of Indian lamb. Mrs. Sidney Myer’s
turban of parrot-green and orange
feathers attracted even more attention
than her lavish display of silver fox.
Mrs. W. M. Winter Irving, wrapped to
the ears in furs, was making a first
town appearance since the buying of
Yandra, at Nagambie.
There was such an abundance of mink
coats that one ceased to take a second
look at them, but the flared mink cape
worn by Mrs. Wallace Mitchell could not
be ignored. It was a Sydney visitor,
Mrs. J. L. Normoyle, who made all the
women sit up and take notice. Her cape
of silver fox was in unique design, her
shoes were toeless, and a metal brooch
as big as an envelope gleamed at the
neckline. She promenaded with pretty
Mrs. Rupert Wertheim, also muffled in
silver fox. Mrs. Jim Fairbairn bright-
ened up a black outfit with splashes of
Paisley. Betty Stephens, just back from
abroad, topped a black coat of Persian
lamb with a hat the shape of a jampot.
The blue eyes of Rosemary Downes were
matched by her tailored suit and hat.
In the committee box were so many
matrons wearing black that it was quite
refreshing to catch a glimpse of Mrs.
Richard Turnbull in brown fur collared
with cocoa-colored fox.
On the eve of Steeplechase Day at
Flemington some bright young things ran
a dance with a sporting flavor at the
Palais de Danse, St. Kilda. Wraps and
coats were stabled in places set apart for
fillies and colts. Sue Staughton, in an
abbreviated white satin jacket over blue,
and Patricia Mein sat under a mam-
moth umbrella at the entrance, possibly
to represent bookies in the betting pad-
dock, though they looked more like two
sirens on the beach. Every horse due
to run in the Steeplechase the following
day had its name, together with its
owner’s colors, on a ballroom pillar. The
tickets reminded one that the profits
would go to The Cottage by the Sea, a
holiday home for youngsters whose
parents have fallen on hard times. An-
other reminder was provided by the
group of notabilities in the official circle
who came along to represent The Cot-
tage. They chatted beneath a banner-
ette flaunting a picture of the favorite
with its head thrust through an outsize
in silver horseshoes.
Nobody on the floor sported the new-
length skirt. Frocks were flared and
flowing, and heads were plastered with
flowers. Many “jigging” dances were
featured, these numbers giving the worst
dancers a chance to look the best. Deidre
Grantham, tall and slender, with blue
feathers draping her slim shoulders, sub-
stituted glides for jerks and scored a
prettier effect. In bold contrast to the
filmy frocks was the close-fitting long
coat of sealing-wax-red velvet, frogged
with gilt buttons, aired by Judith Lawry.
The bandsmen did their best to main-
tain the character of the sporting setting,
but the poor chaps were fearfully handi-
capped by their laundered coats of white
linen, reminiscent of dental surgeries.
In the Broothorn photograph is Ruth
Littleton, who recently became engaged
to George Buckingham Davis. Ruth,
who is the elder daughter of the W.
Littleton couple, completed the course
of Karitane training at Woollahra, Syd-
ney, and at present is showing efficiency
in another capacity, a part-time assistant-
secretarial job at the International Club.
Her fiance is the son of Mrs. A. J. Davis,
of Maffra. The marriage will take place
in November, and the young couple will
live on a property not far from Maffra.
A gay cocktail party at the Athenaeum
Club wound up the race-week festivities
with a grand flourish. So cheery was
the brand of welcome that the guests
were made to forget the cold wind blow-
ing outside. Caviare was nibbled in an
atmosphere of modern interior decora-
tion. Table covers were fashioned of
scarlet shiny leather. Walls were
screened with white trellis festooned with
crimson roses, lighted within, the red
and white effect being repeated with
skeleton trees laden with pears, red show-
ing on the white branches, and white ones
on red boughs. Masses of gorgeous poin-
settia brought a whiff of Queensland to
the lounge. Alan Currie and his lady did
the honors in the absence of the presi-
dent, and the Fraser lady (wife of the
vice-president), who is on the sick list,
had a charming deputy in her daughter
Peggy, who was suited in green tweed.
White revolving pedestals packed with
hors-d’oeuvres spinning on the buffet
tables served two purposes, as they made
a novel decoration. Most of the guests
came on from Flemington, but few had
slipped into cocktail outfits, the most
conspicuous guest being a dark-eyed
stranger in a black frock with a white
and silver lame short coat flared and
basqued, with a bun of dark hair show-
ing beneath a high-crowned silver lame
hat.
Everybody who was anybody put on
her best bib and tucker in compliment
to the opening of a new musical-comedy
season at His Majesty’s on Saturday
night. There were very few women’s
heads in dress circle and stalls that had
not passed through the hands of the
coiffeur. Betty Fisken’s fair hair was
brushed close to the head in the 1937
manner, but it was Georgian in front,
the masterpiece being a topknot as fav-
ored by a king in the last century. Heads
were decked with butterflies, small birds,
ostrich-feather tips, flowers, real or
artificial, or ropes of pearls. The most
elegant effects were achieved when the
hair was dressed coronet fashion.
Switches and bits and pieces have come
into favor again. If you want to be in
the fashion show your ears. The chic
Mrs. Burdett was a picturesque figure in
sapphire-blue velvet with cherry-red
feather tips in her hair. All her life she
has never set her hat straight on her
head, so her feather headdress was ar-
ranged at the old cute angle.
Mrs. Thring, majestic-looking in wine-
colored velvet and lots of orchids, had
in her party Charlie Wenman, making
his first appearance after years of
absence from this theatre, with which
he had a close association for so long.
Captain Marchant Penfold’s young wife
was having her first social outing aftei
a motor smash which has kept her more
or less of a home prisoner since hei
honeymoon. Jim Moffatt squired his
fiancee, Betty Journeaux, whose fair hair
was dressed in a halo roll. The Currie
lady was a figure of Edwardian grace
in a black trailing gown, caped with
silver fox set off with long black gloves.
The fashion of wearing long gloves en-
hanced the effect of the dressing. Mrs.
Dermot Casey watched the show from
the circle in an evening outfit of magpie
coloring, her long suede gloves matching
the black of the skirt. In the stalls were
Stephen Morell and his lady and Attor-
ney-General Menzies and Mrs. Menzies—
cosily coated in velvet. Cecil Tait was
among the many who favored white. Her
frock of classic cut, sparkling at the
waistline, with something that might
have been white samite, struck a distinc-
tive note.
Broothorn pictures here Valerie Purves,
who early next year will embark on her
third trip abroad in the guise of chap-
eron for 15 girls—the first 15 who make
up their minds to join the group. Mem-
bers of the party, which is booked
through a travel service, aim to acquire
poise, breadth of vision and educational
advantages from seeing something of
other countries and peoples. With a
courier they will journey through the
Riviera, Switzerland and Germany, and
after nine days in London will store their
trunks and pack suitcases for a motor-
ing tour of England and Scotland.
Operas, concerts, ballets and mannequin
parades will also be part of their
schedule.
The opening of Parliament takes about
20 minutes, and though it cannot be
termed an interesting ceremony there
is “standing-room only” for white-ticket
holders who arrive less than an hour
before the time of commencement. The
crowd kept itself warm in a clammy
atmosphere, for neither heaters nor ven-
tilators are noticeable in the Council
Chamber. Lieut.-Governor Frederick
Mann, wearing cocked hat and chest
weighted with gold braid, took Lord
Huntingfield’s place, occupying the chair
of honor and reading the opening speech.
Premier Dunstan remarked “What a good
speech”—it was under his direction that
the screed was extensively altered at the
last moment. He and a dozen other poli-
ticians who had given up their seats to
women visitors made only a brief appear-
ance just inside the door of the Coun-
cil Chamber in the wake of the mace,
Speaker W. H. Everard and a handful of
other bewigged gentlemen. After the
ceremony members collected their friends
in the Queen’s Hall and shepherded them
in to partake of tea out of large strong
china cups, along with biscuits and meat
sandwiches —plain fare which is no ex-
pense to the Government. Seen in the
crowd were Mrs. Albert Dunstan and
her daughter Vera, Mrs. Archie
Michaelis, who had a grandstand seat to
go with her pink ticket, Mrs. H. S. K.
Ward, Mrs. Britomarte James, the green
feather worn in Mrs. J. E. Don’s black
hat, Mrs. Cairns Officer, Mrs. lan Mac-
larlan and, in deep discussion among the
swirling mass in Queen’s Hall, Stanley
Argyle and W. J. Kent-Hughes.
The programme of Strauss waltzes and
polkas, augmented by the friendly mood
of Professor Schneevoigt, made last week’s
symphony concert one of the most inti-
mate musical functions that have ever
been held in the barnlike Town Hall.
The programme held appeal for both
technicians and middle-brow musicians,
and the conductor took orchestra and
audience right into his confidence. Dur-
ing the repetition of “Perpetuum Mobile”
he sat down among the. players, and at
its conclusion supplemented the compli-
ment on their efficiency by murmuring
“Well, I might as well go home now.”
The “house” was of many minds on the
subject of dress. Mrs. Russell Martin
and Mrs. J. B. Bellair wore small hats
with fur coats. The Helme Potts, James
Barretts and Captain and Mrs. Stewart
were there; also Sybil Joske, platinum
blonde Louise Lovely, wearing a coat of
deep geranium-red velvet, and auburn-
headed Doreen Buchan, whose floor-
touching coat was of black velvet.
Miss H. Strong, Doris Beeby and her
sister, Mrs. Metcalfe, Joyce Hammond
and Mary Wren were prominent on the
committee for the exhibition of color-
prints and reproductions of modern
paintings held in the Sedon Galleries.
The idea was a money-making one for
the Spanish Aid Council and proved a
great success, for it is years since Mel-
bourne has seen such a comprehensive
collection of moderns. By begging, bor-
rowing and running round and about in
their own cars committee members
secured 76 exhibits, giving a fairly broad
idea of what has evolved during the last
few decades among the Impressionists,
the Post-impressionists and the Expres-
sionists.
One picture (“The Fawn,” by Franz
Marc) is the property of John Nield, and
came from as far away as Geelong.
Among others present on the first after-
noon who had spaces empty on their
walls at home were Mrs. Maurice Belz,
who wore silver foxes and a tiny veil
attached to her black hat, Harold Holt
and Betty Fogarty. Mrs. Fred Dennett
had a tassel dangling from her turban.
Mrs. Neville Fraser’s beautiful black coal
sported an elaborate arrangement of fur
on cape collar and sleeves above the
elbow. Mrs. Hugh Syme, who wore
flecked green tweed, accompanied Mrs.
Frank Andrew. Sable tails sprouted
from Mrs. Geoff Chapman’s small black
hat. Jean Stewart Ferguson, who wore
lamb’s-wool trimmings to her tailored
coat, was with Mrs. Chester Guest. An-
other spectator was Jean Campbell,
whose latest book, The Red, Sweet Wine.
is due here in September. At present
Jean is having what she calls a “rest”
from writing ; she is putting into Englisii
the poetical works of a Russian friend.
She knows only a few words of Russian,
so has to make poetry to order from
the raw material of Mr. Ravitch's rough
translation.
Masseurs and masseuses have almost
lost their sense of humor since the Min-
ister of Health received a deputation of
chiropodists craving registration with “l
don’t think you are a very important
body of people— not as important as the
opticians, though just as important as
the masseurs.” Massage training is ex
pensive, and the course in this State
covers three years and involves some
difficult exams. Those who follow it
don’t like the way Dr. Harris dismisses
them so lightly from his thoughts. A
piquant situation may arise if one day
he falls into their hands for the relief
of aches and pains.


BRANDAUER’A
PENS
Every point
guaranteed
do not experiment with imitations.
C. BRANDAOKR * CO, Ltd, BIRMINGHAM. ENG
The Union Trustee Company of Australia, Ltd.
(Incorporated in Victoria.)
2 O’CONNELL STREET - SYDNEY
ACTS AS
Executor, Trustee, Administrator, Attorney, Etc.
(Established 1885.)
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE AND TOWNSVILLE.
Amongst the advantages derived:—
The Company never dies, never leaves the State, and is always available.
ABSOLUTE SECURITY, EXPERT & ECONOMICAL SERVICE.
N.S.W. DIRECTORS:
F. E. Bryant (Chairman); Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, K.8.E., M.L.C. (Vice-Chairman)-
Sir Graham Waddell, K.8.E.; James Kidd; W. H. Maekay; J. Beresford Grant;
Colin A. Sinclair. Manager: J. G. H. Shipway.
(.WRITE OR CALL FOR FREE EXPLANATORY BOOKLET.)
Sl
Jk
7
r
WAKE UP ! !
BARTZ
Nature’s Salts of the Earth
Drugs are only a temporary
relief, but BARTZ, the
IMPROVED MINERAL
SPRING TONIC SALTS, is
Nature’s own remedy for
excessive fat, headaches,
rheumatic pains, sleepless-
ness, giddiness, high blood
pressure, constipation, liver,
kidney, bladder troubles, uric acid, indigestion, skin
complaints, etc. Obtainable all Chemists and Stores,
1/- and 2/-. Cheaper and better. Send 2d. stamp
for liberal sample to Box 1182HH, G.P.0., Sydney.
Patents.
IMPROVEMENTS IN OIL ENGINES.
THE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent No.
24249/25 is prepared to negotiate for the sale
of its rights in the above, or for the granting of
a license to make, use and vend the invention
within the Commonwealth of Australia. Par-
ticulars obtainable from Griffith, Hassel and
Griffith, Patent Attorneys, Sydney.
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
“Hong”: The opium business thrives in
the North, but nobody seems able to find
out who is thriving on it. Apparently,
the drug just walks or floats into the
country of its own accord and remains
concealed till some zealous policeman
discovers seven or eight Binghis using it
in trying to forget compound regulations
or the shortage of tumbak. A week or
two ago seven Darwin blacks got sen-
tences of from six months to a year in
Fanny Bay for smoking or owning a-p’in.
A fat lot of good that will do anybody
except the prisoners. There are crimes
for which the cat is prescribed which are
less heinous than selling poppy treacle to
natives. Existing penalties need stiffen-
ing up.
* * * *
“Dungeness”: Many an old north-
erner will be pleased by the prospects
of a second lease of life for Cooktown
(N.Q.). Forty years and more ago it
was the jumping-off place for New
Guinea and Torres Strait, and had vivid
living memories of Palmer goldfield days.
Now it is “first-and-last” for ’planes on
the Australia-Papua routes. An aero-
drome, new roads, a revival in gold-
mining and a promising land develop-
ment are among the signs of prosperity,
which may be more extensive and lasting
than that which passed with the Palmer
period. But even in the days of deepest
depression Cooktown treasured two
claims to fame —it was the centre of the
biggest shire in Queensland and owned
the only barefooted shire bailiff in Aus-
tralia.
“Porcupine Joe”: Bloke can’t get any
peace up North nowadays. Here’s
Cooktown, nice a little town as ever you
see for a quiet life an’ a bit of good
fishin’ till them blanky aeroplanes come
an’ spoiled it. If a bloke fancied a lay-
down under a tree for forty winks no-
body’d get interferin’ just ’cos the tree
happened to be in the main street. You
do that at Cairns and ye’d get lumbered
’cos some towrist might think you was
shikkered. Clobber, too; shorts is all
yer want, ’less yer one of them Govern-
ment blokes, then yer mount one of them
two-ter-one coats —two ter one y’ ain’t
got no singlet on under it. There’s five
pubs, an’ Hayles’s boat once a week, an’
no flamin’ towrist roads ter put «p the
prices. Then come the flamin’ ’planes,
an’ blokes in tiger-shooter ’ats wantin’ ter
know ’ow much gold’s left in the old
May Town field, an’ a lota flamin’
wimmin sayin’ “Oh, ’ow loverly.” Strike!
I’m orf soon. Thank Gawd there’s still
a lota Australia north o’ Cooktown left.
* * * *
“X.T.”: According to ex-Northern
Territory Administrator Weddell’s final
report civil servants who go to the N.T.
become physical and sometimes mental
wrecks. The civil service must be a
tender breed. Frank Jardine, who went
in 1865 to Cape York, lived till after the
war, and the last time I saw Scrutton,
who went with him, he was chasing a
fowl round Borroloola like a two-year-
old and could still read the newspapers
without glasses at 95, after over 60 years
in the N.T. There are quite a lot of
other old hands knocking round —M. P.
Durack, Bill Heavy and others of the
type —who don’t seem to be going bad
either physically or mentally after spend-
ing half a century or more in the beastly
tropics.
* * * *
“Dungeness”: Would-be goldseekers
from the South, attracted by news of the
strike at Bartle Frere (N.Q.), should not
run away with any ideas that because
the locality is in the tropics there will be
no need to take blankets or tents. Eleva-
tion ranges up to 3000 feet on the pegged
ground, nights are extraordinarily cold
now and for months ahead, and in the
rainy season a downfall may last for
days together. The country is tremen-
dously rough, and mostly clothed in
heavy rain-jungle. Mosquitoes, ants,
bush-leeches, hornets and flies abound,
with a fine assortment of varied reptiles.
It is all reef work, needing explosives
and drills. The one good point is that
there is no shortage of water.
* * * *
“Atrax”: Brisbane’s pretty Botanic
Gardens, held in the crook of a river
elbow, are older than most people think
—lO9 on July 3. The original 42-acre
site was selected in 1828 by Charles
Fraser, N.S.W. botanist, and Alan Cun-
ningham, the botanist-explorer, sent up
from Sydney with instructions to “estab-
lish a public garden in Brisbane.” Its
purpose was to grow vegetables for the
“He says there'll he no marriages in heaven.”
“Why - no men there ?”
convict establishment, which it did very
successfully. In 1855 Walter Hill was
appointed first director, and rapidly
turned the garden into a beauty-spot with
native trees and flowers. Also, he beat
off an attempt in the 1870’s to extend
the Brisbane business area across it.
Frederick Manson Bailey succeded him
in 1881, and his son, J. F. Bailey, became
director in 1905, to give place to E. W.
Bick in 1917. Another eight acres was
added in 1916 from part of the old Gov-
ernment House Domain.
& £ *
“M. Turlutu”: Brisbane seems to be
reacting against flat-dwelling, probably
for climatic reasons. The whole of the
1936-37 allocations for erection of dwell-
ings was taken up as soon as the State
Advances Corporation opened its doors
last year, and by the end of the financial
year at least another 1000 would-be
housebuilders were seeking assistance
under the State plan for easy interest and
redemption payment. The corporation
has shown remarkable results in 27 years
of activity. Although the outlay has
been between seven and eight millions,
bad debts have amounted to only £7OO.
Applications increase year by year, and
far ahead of the proportional population
increase at that.
* * * *
“Cypress”: Ten years ago 500 pine-
trees were planted in the school grounds
by pupils of the Marburg Rural School
(Q.). To thin the forest a few 30ft. trees
were recently cut, and the timber is
being made by pupils, trained in wood-
working, into furniture for the school.
Fifty-seven other Queensland schools
have forestry plots containing over
10,000 trees. Also, pupils are given
forestry tuition and encouraged to start
their own plots at home. Some farmers’
sons have home plots containing upwards
of 1000 trees. The Forestry Department
is out to help the good work along.
"Australia Jane's" Budget
We are still being deluged with mail
from lucky trippers on the other side of
the world, but one young married sup-
plied the only touch of comedy to date.
At a Riviera resort she hired a hand-
some gigolo to dance with her; but, she
wrote, “he looked so wretched all the
time that it was a most distressing experi-
ence, and one that I don’t want to repeat.'’
Mrs. Alf Huybers writes not letters but
journals. She had been to the Albert
Hall, where 5000 people gathered to hear
Tauber ; also to Ivor Novello’s “Careless
Rapture,” in which Zena Dare and
Dorothy Hickson took part. The two
leading ladies are grandmothers.
Lord Mayor Jones bade a civic fare-
well to the, little group off to explore the
Carnarvon Ranges (c.-w. Q.). D. A.
O’Brien is the leader, and Rev. Father
Leo Hayes will join the party at Crow’s
Nest. An honorary collector for the
Queensland Museum, J. Edgar Young, is
going too, and, although he doesn’t expect
to bring back much, he. will be able to
give an opinion as to the advisability of
sending a larger party to unearth the re-
mains of prehistoric monsters, fossils and
other scientific data. It was at Durham
Downs, 60 miles away, that the largest
fossil so far discovered in Australia was
found.
Mrs. Percy Pease entertained a large
group of friends at the National Hotel
in honor of Mrs. Edgar Bowery, who is
off to Townsville. Mrs. Forgan Smith,
the Lady Mayoress and many welfare
workers came along.
About 40 hostesses combined for the
big tea in honor of Inky sister Gladys
Barlow before her marriage to Alan
Philp. A pair of silver entree dishes and
a Doulton china jug added weight to
the good wishes. Rowe’s was the setting,
and Gladys looked smart in a dusky-
pink wool frock, worn with a navy
saunter coat and small navy hat.
Marie Bjelke Petersen is back in Bris-
bane, and will be here some months.
Last time she visited us she wrote a
novel with its setting in the timber dis-
tricts. This has just been published in
London. Now, the sugar industry is to
provide her with material for another.
The Trocadero wore a nautical air for
the Royal Queensland Yacht Club’s
annual ball. Commodore A. Huybers
was host, and, as Mrs. Huybers is in
Europe, Mrs. John Figgis, wife of the
vice-commodore, helped to receive. The
Lieut.-Governor and Lady Blair, Com-
mander and Mrs. E. C. Rhodes, Colonel
D. E. Evans (president of the United Ser-
vice Club) and Mrs. Evans, and the R. F.
Galloways occupied the official alcove.
Judith Marshall, daughter of Colonel
and Mrs. N. Marshall, Mt. Malakoff,
Stanthorpe, has a diamond ring. The
lad is Gordon Douglas, of Barangarork,
Stanthorpe, son of the W. A. Douglases,
of Brisbane.
Phyllis N. Mellett, first Queensland
woman to take a diploma in dietetics, has
returned from Edinburgh. She had leave
from the nursing staff of the Brisbane
General Hospital to go overseas.
Women and girls flocked off to the
Springboks’ first match in Brisbane, and
also to the dance in the City Hall. Large,
good-natured men, the ’Boks, and none
of them showed the slightest impatience
when mobbed by young enthusiasts
armed with autograph books.
Three members of Mrs. G. Moffatt’s
family have hurtled into matrimony
within one week. First, Dimps married
J. Gibson, then Chel married Ralph Bil-
lington, then Moffatt and Audrey Lack
(daughter of the S. G. Lacks, Hendra)
were married.
The seventeenth annual ball of the
Queensland Law Students’ Association
brought veterans of the Bar and half-
fledged young barristers and solicitors
happily together. Deputy-Governor
Justice Macrossan represented Lieut.-
Governor James Blair, who is doing the
North as far as Mackay with Lady Blair.
Son Pat Macrossan was in attendance.
Justice Webb and Mrs. Webb, V. P.
Power and Peggy Wilson were the re-
ception committee.
On the same night, at Lennon’s, the
annual ball of the Jewish Women’s Guild
attracted about 200 dancers. There was
bridge for the non-steppers, and Mrs. N.
Max, president of the. committee, seemed
to know by instinct whether steady danc-
ing or a little cutting and shuffling was
desired by each advancing guest. Pro-
ceeds are to go to the funds of the guild,
which are shared out each Christmas
among various charities.
Annual reunion of St. Aidan’s Old
Girls was held at the Carlton Cabaret,
and Mrs. E. A. Hartland, president, did
the polite to the guests. Betty Bolton,
hon. sec., and Myrtle Skyrme, hon. treas.,
lent a hand.
Joan Willoughby Dowling came up
from Sydney with Beryl Collins, and will
stay at Nindooimbah until our Show
Week is over. Colleen and Goldie Gray,
just back from America and Europe, are
spending a week or two with their
mother, Mrs. Ervin, in Sydney before
they come on to Brisbane. Mrs. Ervin
was Muriel Appel, daughter of the late
George Appel, for many years M.L.A.
for Beaudesert.


HIGH BLOOD PRESSURE
HARDENED ARTERIES-
Iv/tvX'X'.v.W-v.v
' "fl'
KS:p;:®;:gKg: ; :;5g::¥
;.:m
HOW TO END HIGH BLOOD PRESSURE
m
Clogged
The left illustration shows your colon clogged with
fermenting 1 acid waste and lime deposits. Because
your bowels act regularly is not proof that all the
waste is being evacuated. Instead, it encrusts on the
colon walls and poisons the whole system. You suffer
from dangerous high blood pressure, hardened ar-
teries, in addition to other aches and pains. You feel
tired, depressed, exhausted, always drowsy. You have
no vigour or vitality. Perhaps you have rheumatism,
bladder complaint and stomach distress. Laxatives
Colon are useless —they only purge the lower
end of the howel. They do not clear away the acid-
developing wastes from the colon walls. ‘Coloseptic,’
however, clears the entire colon of waste matter as
shown in the right-hand illustration. It neutralises
all acid conditions. It restores the body’s alkaline re-
serve. ‘Coloseptic’ also activates the kidneys, skin
pores and the lungs—other vital organs your body
uses to get rid of surplus poisons. Get rid of j
dangerous High Blood Pressure. Enjoy the evening l
sdf
of your years in peace, comfort and contentment. Unclogged
Clear your clog'g'ed colon with ‘Coloseptic’ NOW. Colon
AT ALL CHEMISTS: INDIVIDUAL SIZE, 2/9 . : : ECONOMY SIZE, 5/6
If unobtainable locally write to Coloseptic (Aust.) Ltd., 26 O’Connell St., Sydney.
7lew scwdi(k
Jhsuaimsmi (BninqA
Quick (Rclicft ....
High Blood Pressure and Hardened Arteries
arise primarily from self-poisoning (Autoxima),
leading specialists now say. The clogged
colon, where the self-poisoning actually begins,
must first be cleared of fermenting, acid food
debris before real relief from dangerous blood
pressure, hardened arteries, dizziness, giddi-
ness, pounding heart, head noises, shortness
of breath, trembling, drowsiness, exhaustion,
loss of memory and lack of vitality can be se-
cured. Clear your colon of the acid, disease-
causing waste and so reduce the pressure, thus
removing the danger of a "breakdown."
HOW SELF-POISONING CAUSES
HIGH BLOOD PRESSURE . . . .
Civilized life guards us against many dangers
and diseases, but exposes us to hidden ones,
such as self-poisoning. Modern foods often lack
essential elements that give exercise to the
walls of the colon (large intestine), thereby los-
ing their power of normal movement and are
unable to get rid of the lime and acid-forming
deposits which encrust in the colon folds.
These acids and lime deposits are absorbed
into the system and circulate in the blood
stream. They settle on the walls of the ar-
teries and narrow the channel. The arteries
become "hard" and fail to expand when the
blood is pumped by the heart. This causes
the distressing symptoms experienced by suf-
ferers from high blood pressure and hardened
arteries.
TESTIMONIAL
Devonport, Sept. 8, 1936.
“I have been a user of * Coloseplic ’ for years—in
fact, ever since it saved me from a serious opera-
tion, when I was obliged to have two nurses and an
ambulance to take me to a hospital, when l begged
for a dose of ‘Coloseplicwhich was administered
with wonderful effects. I have lost count of the
number of people to whom I have recommended
•Coloseplic
rprr Liberal Sample of 'Coioseptic'
I IV CC “Mail Coupon for a Free Sample.
X.earn more about this vital subject. Mail
the coupon for a free sample of
‘COLOSEFTIC’ to-day, and you
will receive a book telling:
you all about this highly
important subject.
CLEANNESS
FOR BETTER INTERNAL
1C
AIDS NUTRITION
POISONING
SELF
CHECKS
COMBATS ACIDITY
HEALTH
BUILDS
sdf
~ • ,<\v 4
sV ue
-e* v ’ \o**
A V ' v°V c V
» .c° V -»* v
c v,.~ > o»
°* v \e v „i '
& v
v> J -’
. N v ' tO
THE
WOMAN S MIRROR
Published Every Thursday
Is the most popular 68-
page woman s paper pub-
lished in the Common-
wealth. It features every-
thing a woman ought to
know. Once you read it
you will never be without
it. Its up-to-date weekly
pattern is free for the
asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd...
252 George Street, Sydney.
THE LITTLE SISTERS.
WESTRALIA
A lighter note entered'the National
, ■ * whor,
party s session at the Adelpht, when
dancing and bridge took preference over
politics. President Isaachsen s spouse
trod a measure in black velvet, a lame-
lined cape falling away from the
shoulders, with a cluster of red roses
pinned to the neckline. Mrs. G. M.
Barter’s accessories to a gold lame dinner
«own were jewelled belt and cyclamen
spray • Mrs. Cardell-Oliver’s bead-en-
shire’s lacquered satins were delphinium
blue. Mrs. Don Cleland stitched bands
of deeper-toned velvet to primrose flat
crepe, and an ostrich-feather cape lightly
rested
Molly Mannings ciepe was ot renais-
sance red.
Betty Bolton plighted her troth with
Keith Gibson, son of the Fremantle
Mayoral pair, at Scots kirk, Fremantle,
Her slim tunic frock of beige wool crepe
had sunray tucks radiating from the neck-
line, With rolled collar and small brown
bird perched on right shoulder. Her hat
was a simple Breton felt. Margaret
Bolton and Marion Gibson were maids,
with fluffy angora embroideries on their
dusty-pink wool de Chine, topped with
bequilled velvet turbans.
Young people of Mt. Lawley swelled
the Silver Chain Nursing Fund with the
takings from their dance at Stirling
Rooms. The organisers were Betty Cuth-
bert, Kathleen Pearson, Joan Firth, Mar-
jorie Sinclair, Doreen Dudley, Sheila Gill,
Kim Saunders, Gwen Evans and Dorothy
L um b.
The University French Club, locally
known as the “Comedie Frangaise.” made
an effort t 0 llVe U P t 0 ltS m ° nlker b V
nting two French plays . Members
t^e Alliance Franyaise were honored
guests anc j found their way to the beauti-
floocnit arcades at Crawley. Miss E.
Sedgman produced a comedy entitled “La
Dame de Bronze et le Monsieur de
Cristal,” with Frank Jones and Len
Harrop filling the principal roles.
Dorothy Douglas, who combines brains
with good looks, presented a melodrama
tion of a delicate situation
On Mrs. A. L. Walkers velvet-clad
shoulders fell the onus of welcoming a
stream of guests to the River Row*
delt A ttMncartn'ey k„t a’helping
and the Elliott Lawrences,
Norah Stow’s huntsman’s-green taffeta
contrasted with Pat Rennie’s gold of the
same material, and Biddy Middleton’s
black silk nets tiered over midnight-blue
satin.
Grace Ferguson’s bon voyage parties
were concentrated into a week’s whirl
before she took off for Chile, where her
brother Alan builds bridges and per-
forms other engineering feats.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
The farewell party and presentation to
ex-Lady Mayoress Dunstan, organised
by Mrs. W. Janzow, filled the huge
lounge of the South Australian to over-
flowing. Almost every public body was
represented. At the top table were the
Bonython lady, who made the presenta-
tion, the guest of honor, the Ritchie and
Hudd ladies and Mrs. Janzow. The gift
was silver candelabra.
Another farewell party and presenta-
tion were organised by Mrs. S. R. Bur-
ston and Mrs. S. L. Dawkins on behalf
of the Hospitallers’ Club at the Went-
worth. Lady Dugan, who was asked to
present the gift, was received by Dr.
and Mrs. Burston. Afternoon-tea fol-
lowed the presentation.
The Gunners’ Ball at the Embassy was
attended by the Governor and Lady
Dugan, who were accompanied by Mrs.
J. O. Haselden and Sybil Roberts. They
were received by Lieut.-Col. F. Lloyd
and his wife. Joan Martyn, daughter
of the Base Commandant, made her
debut, and was presented to the v.-r. pair
by Mrs. Lloyd. Others in the official
party were Commander Rosenthal,
D.N.0., and Mrs. Rosenthal and Lieut.-
Col. and Mrs. Fowler Brownsworth.
Mary, only daughter of Major and
Mrs. F. A. L. de Gruchy, of St. Peter’s,
Jersey, Channel Islands, who spent some
months in Australia last year, most of
the time with her aunt, Mrs. Dudley Hay-
ward, North Adelaide, has announced
her engagement to Gordon Richardson,
of the 2nd King Edward’s Own Gurkhas.
An original note was struck at the
University Union’s Ball in the Refec-
tory when the supper-tables were deco-
rated with fruit and vegetables, more
colorful than they sound. The president
of the University Women’s Union, Helen
Wighton, and some of the students were
responsible. Mrs. M. E. Bridgland re-
ceived with her son, G. S. Bridgman,
president of the union. In the official
party were Stanton Hicks and his lady.
This year’s Lacrosse Ball attracted an
attendance of over 900. Lord Mayor
and Mayoress Barrett made their first
appearance at a public function. Guests
were received by club president C. L.
Abbott and his wife.
The marriage of cricketer Leonarc
Darling to Phyllis Gilford took place
at Trinity Church. The bride wore
beige lace clinging to the figure and a
wide-brimmed hat of beige summer felt.
Bridesmaid Molly Humphries was
gowned in cyclamen angel-skin lace, with
a belt of brown chiffon velvet and a hat
of brown felt. After the ceremony there
was a cocktail party at the home of
Claring-Bould, Heywood-avenue, Unlev
Park.
At approximately the same time as
the marriage of their daughter Shirley
in London, the R. Burns Cumings gave
a large cocktail party at their home at
Torrensville so that friends could drink
the bride’s health and wish her luck. A
large three-tiered wedding-cake was cut.
The bridegroom is Keith, only son of
the W. A. Gardners, of Hawthorn, Vic.
TASMANIA.
The Governor and Lady Clark went
along to the Apex Club’s dance at the
Continental. The club aims at social
betterment and has wide support, so a
good crowd rolled up. A big official
party was headed by the president, Leo
Doyle. Frocking was good.
Collegiate School wound up its term
with a jolly dance at which Michelle
Barr-Neate, of the teaching staff, said
good-bye to pupils and friends before
starting for her home in Adelaide, where
she will marry Derek Harrison (Hobart)
in the near future.
Mrs. P. J. Pickering (Hobart presi-
dent of the C.W.A.) and Mrs. D. C.
McLaren engineered an American tea at
Hadley’s to raise the wind for furnishing
a Rest Room for the new organisation.
Lady Clark was present, also the Lady
Mayoress and Mrs. A. C. Ogilvie.
The Athenaeum Club relaxed its
monastic rules and invited women guests
to its at-home the other day. President
Tom Lyons being in Sydney his place
was taken by vice-president George Mur-
doch. About 200 guests enjoyed the
well-managed party. Each woman guest
was presented with a numbered disk, and
Barbara Chesterman went home the
richer for a leather-cased travelling
clock for holding the lucky number.
The Midland Hunt Club had a great
run at Longford. The Keith Gatenbys
entertained the field at Rhodes, and the
run followed, at first through heavy fog.
Jessie, the Silas Gatehouses’ youngest
girl, and D. L. Burbury, of Stone House,
York Plains, were made one at St.
James’s, New Town, the bride wearing
magnolia velvet, long and plainly cut
with long straight sleeves, cowled neck-
line and shortish train. A very lovely old
veil was clasped to the head by a coronet
of Christmas roses. Margaret Annells
and Lesley Burbury ’maided in frocks
of deep-rust ring velvet, with head-
dresses of rust-colored chrysanthemums.
Festivities followed at the Imperial.
Keir Murdoch’s wedding with Anthony
Brunskill Dunn, Wagga, was a Highland
marriage. After the ceremony at Scots
Church the Tom Murdochs had a “cake-
cutting” ceremony at their home, fol-
lowed by supper and a dance. The
bride’s frock of white and silver brocade
was topped by her mother’s Limerick
veil, and she wore a little rosette of the
Cameron of Lochiel tartan, with the St.
Andrew’s cross and the thistle tucked
into it. Ushers and groomsmen wore
favors of the tartan, but the bridegroom’s
buttonhole was of orange-blossom.
Dora Grant and Barbara Murdoch in
sapphire velvet bridesmaid frocks, car-
ried cyclamen bouquets, and had silver
leaves in their hair.
Kathleen, the Walter Loneys’ youngest
girl, and W. A. Davis, son of the late
Col. and Mrs. D. M. Davis, announce
their engagement.


m
m
mam
m
THE
"SKENE"
POLO
SADDLE
Serge Lined,
£l2/7/6
(MOUNTED)
Leather Lined,
£l3/8/-
(MOUNTED)
The seat and pads are of pigskin and
the flaps and skirts of kip leather.
N.S.W. Freight Paid for Cash with
Order.
Write for Our Catalog and Price List
of Polo Equipment.
WALTHER* STEVENSON ltd
395 CEORCE ST. SYDNEY
ADELAIDE’S
BLOSSOM TIME
ft ‘ X
A riot of color . . . plains and hillsides aglow with flowers
and blossoms, ADELAIDE presents unforgettable scenes
in August and September.
7 DAYS’ TOUR ... . £5/5/-
Fare includes one week’s accommodation and tours to
Adelaide’s mountain and coastal beauty spots, and is
PLUS FARES FROM YOUR TOWN TO ADELAIDE.
Full details from the S.A. representative at Victorian or New South Wales Government
Tourist Bureaux, Melbourne and Sydney, or from
The GOVERNMENT TOURIST BUREAU, Box 664G,G.P.0.,
Adelaide.
The Long White Cloud
The New Radio Deal
To serve a scattered population not
much greater than that of Sydney, Maori-
land already has four national radio sta-
tions, a high-powered central national
station, two commercial ones and a
number of smaller, independently-owned
B-class stations. The Savage Government
is establishing another national station in
Invercargill, and its “Uncle Scrim pro-
poses to open a third commercial station
in Christchurch; and once that is on the
air he’ll probably extend his chain to
Dunedin.
It seems a lot of stations for 1,650,000
people, some of whom won t have a re-
ceiving set within bashing distance.
Australian experience shows that radio
networks follow development in radio
progress, and do not constitute progress
simply by virtue of their existence.
Maoriland’s national and commercial
programmes will have to become more
popular than they are to justify so many
expensive stations for so few people.
“Zipley”: Maoris have been in the
Victorian news since the Orakei natives
began their month’s prayer-crusade
against expulsion from that Auckland
suburb. But a wrong has been done, and,
on behalf of those good Auckland dow-
agers who tried to invoke the aid of the
supernatural in their crusade against beer
in 1929, it should be righted. Melbourne
“Herald,” in what was apparently a foot-
note to the cable from Maoriland telling
of the Orakei stunt, naively explained
that the Maoris were given to this sort
of faith-showmanship ; in 1929, the foot-
note added, they had tried to dry up the
beer vats of a new Auckland brewery by
mouthing prayers at it from the road.
Thai gathering, so appreciated by the
brewery workers and the publicity-
minded members of the directorate., was
staged by anti-liquor people, and not by
the Maoris. The brewery came through
its ordeal unscathed.
* * * *
“Korero”: In official quarters on this
side there’s no uneasiness over the visit
of Count Felix von Luckner. One Maori-
lander is looking forward to meeting him
in happier circumstances than when he
was the count’s war-time gaoler on the
cableship Iris, which captured the scow
in which Von Luckner and other
prisoners had escaped from Motuihi
Island. He is R. Banister, of Mercury
Bay. Banister says this cruise of Von
Luckner’s was planned 20 years ago.
After the Iris caught the escaping Ger-
mans in the Kermadecs, Von Luckner
was placed on parole and Banister, then
purser, was his constant companion ; on
the voyage back to Maoriland, the scow
Moa in tow, Von Luckner promised him-
self a future pleasure cruise to the South
Pacific. This is it, and a yachting man
on holiday isn’t likely to mess about with
politics.
•i* 'i'
“Mak”: The doubtful Australian prac-
tice of conducting private inquiries into
air accidents has been followed by
Maoriland, Minister for Defence Jones
being pleased to say that “as soon as
the Air Board’s report has been received
and considered a full statement will be
issued to the public.” He was referring
to the inquiry into the Southland surf
crash at Big Bay late in 1936 ; a pas-
senger was killed. There should be no
more privacy over air inquiries to-day
than there is in the much more technical
legal cases open to public attendance.
* * * *
“Ticker”: There’s another chart with
a Maoriland-Australian interest aboard
the Endeavour as well as that copy of
Captain Cook’s ancient one (B. 7/7/’37).
The Endeavour was on survey work in
the western Mediterranean during the
Gallipoli campaign. In its present chart-
room is a replica of the chart of the
Peninsula completed by Percy Douglas,
now vice-admiral, a day before the
Anzacs landed.
* * =i= *
“Cluny”: Rotorua and Wairakei ther-
mal regions have as great a fascination
“Isn't he just too daring for Words?”
for Maorilanders as for tourists from
overseas, but it took a visitor to frown
on the fact that no regular scientific
check is kept on activity variations in
the thermal regions. Essential work
would include the recording of geyser
temperatures —surely one of the world’s
strangest jobs—and the compilation of
seismological records; abnormal ther-
mal activity could then be more easily
recognised and scientists would be in a
better position to note its relation to any
subsequent disturbances. Most Maori-
landers have heard verbal tales of pecu-
liar thermal happenings alleged to have
preceded earthquakes and eruptions, and
research stations would be a scientific
method of proving the sage head-waggers
right or wrong. Too many of them
burst into print after the Napier ’quake.
* * * *
“Kakapo”: Cold in Maoriland?
Burke’s Pass recently had 40 degrees of
frost. Two of the Orari River’s three
streams were frozen over, and the remain-
ing one sent down ice floes two and three
feet square. In mid-Canterbury the frost
spread to the Bealey Hotel bar and,
peeling the glass neatly off the beer, left
that standing, unbottled, on the shelves.
* * * *
“Xo”: The head of a Maoriland
secondary school complained to his board
that the school song, written by a French-
man about 600 years ago, sounded like a
dirge. He asked that a prize be offered
to former students for a new composi-
tion. The board considered the proposal
with suitable gravity and agreed ; prize,
one guinea. Surely the local draper
should be good enough to chuck in an
old school tie.
* * * *
“Kiwit”: Commercial aviation is not
the only Maoriland service being supplied
with radio direction-finding aids (B.
7/7/’37). Two of the five radio-beacon
plants ordered for the assistance of ship-
ping in Cook Strait and Hauraki Gulf
have already arrived ; Baring Head, Cape
Campbell and Stephen’s Island in the
Strait, and Cuvier and Moko Hinau
islands in the Gulf, are being equipped.
Lights at these well-known marine land-
marks are being changed from oil-burn-
ing to electric, and there has been a
Ministerial hint that the. Government
would like to see even small coastal craft
carrying wireless. There’s nothing like a
few wrecks and near-disasters —such as
the Yvonne’s Coramandel Peninsula
crash —to make progress palatable to
political bookkeepers.
* * * *
“D.N.”: Maoriland’s Tourist and Pub-
licity Department is dishing out a “calen-
dar of useful information” to overseas
people likely to be visiting the Dominion
before September 30. With every facility
at hand to ensure accuracy, the depart-
ment should not find it necessary to pre-
face its small handbook with the advice
that “no responsibility can be accepted
for inaccuracies or omissions,” although
“every effort” has been made to see that
there are none. There’s one small error
which would annoy Taranaki people so
proud of their Mt. Egmont. The moun-
tain is given a few lines in the “What to
See” section, but, according to the de-
partment, accommodation-houses on the
mountain’s slopes include “North
Egmont, Hawera, and Dawson’s Falls.”
Actually, the house easily accessible to
Hawera is the last-named, Stratford
being served by an accommodation-house
of the same name as that town, while
New Plymouth feeds the North Egmont
one. Brian Macmillan, Maoriland’s best
all-round skier, who is to compete at
Kosciusko, learned the sport from the
Stratford House completely overlooked
by Wellington’s departmental handbook
editor.
* * * *
“M.”: Anyone recall the title and
author of a short story about a sheep-
man who imported an expensive Scotch
dog which he later sold to a local High-
lander because Gaelic was its language
and it couldn’t work to exasperated Tas-
man Sea-isms? Anyway, it was a good
yarn and evidently founded on fact,
though I can’t even remember where I
read it. The Japs, who have bought
several thousand Maoriland sheep for
experimental farms in Manchukuo, are
also in the market for dogs to work
them. They offer a maximum of £4.
Sheep-dogs which have performed well
at past Maoriland trials have gone to
Australian buyers for as much as £3O,
so there is little chance of Maoriland
losing promising curs of good strain.
* * * *
“Xo”: Maori prophet Rua’s numer-
ous descendants have a job ahead of
them if they wish to better the record
of a Maori family which has lived near
Te Kuiti for as long as pakehas can
remember. A woman of the family,
Mrs. George Hetet, recently celebrated
her one-hundredth birthday—and her
descendants number 483, with 10 daugh-
ters and a son still living. Few elderly
natives really know their birthdays, but
the venerable Hetet wahine has an old
family Bible in which her birth was in-
scribed on March 24, 1837. The family
was in early association with some of
Maoriland’s first missionaries. Another
white man’s fancy to win early Hetet
approval was Rugby Union football, and
quite a few of the 483 still play it.
* * * *
“Waitot”: George Bernard Shaw, who
marvelled at Maoriland’s neglect to
supply schoolchildren with milk when
there were so many able-bodied cows in
the countiy, would be worth hearing on
the Education Department practice of
resorting to various milk-powders at the
slightest hint of supply difficulties.
Powders are being examined by the
Health Department in order that the
most nutritive may be substituted im-
mediately the real thing is not easily
available. At present there is a shortage
of winter milk in several country
towns, and in a native school in the
Waikato, one of Maoriland’s largest
dairying districts, whole malted milk is
being used. But Minister of Education
Fraser, who says more than 80,000
Maoriland schoolchildren are now
benefiting by the milk-in-schools scheme,
refutes the notion that substitutes will
be used if fresh milk is available.
# ♦ * *
“Kohi”: Some good mountain pub-
licity has been given Maoriland in Eng-
land’s “Alpine Journal” by Colin Wyatt,
the London skier, who visited both
islands last year. He tempers his praise
with just criticism of hut fee and guiding
tariff variations, and remarks on the
total absence of any maps “worthy of
the name.” He is not the first visiting
mountaineer to find that accommodation
fees can be remarkably elastic and that
lack of reliable alpine maps means that
even experienced climbers might as well
leave their compasses at home and employ
local guides— at a price. Alpine sports
could stand some of Minister Parry’s
Government intrusion —not in the way
of arranging competition details but in
assisting the development of national
mountain assets and fixing fee-rates. And
the comparatively small sums of money
needed to bring mountain facilities up to
par would show better tourist returns than
even a constantly coddled railway system.
Mountains never get behind the times.


"RADIO”
The world-wide technical
authority of amateur, short-
wave and’ experimental radio.
Subscriptions arc 18/6 per year in
Australia, acceptable at “The Bulletin”
Office, 252 George Street, Sydney.
“Radio” is published monthly in Los
Angeles (U.S.A.) under date as of
the following month: 10 issues yearly,
including special annual number; the
August and September issues (which
would normally appear in July and
August) are omitted.
Copies are mailed to subscribers direct
from U.S.A.
Read “Radio” regularly and keep in
advance of the times.
“Radio” is the fastest selling of all
radio magazines—on the bookstall
to-day, sold out to-morrow.
Subscribe direct and be sure of
your cOpy!
RADIO NEWS.
Sirufer Tuning-coil Design.
DON B. KNOCK'S PAGES.
Since the Sirufer iron core was intro-
duced here Australian manufacturers
have not been slow to realise its advan-
tages. When the modern iron core first
appeared in Europe about five years ago,
it was applied to the R.F. and detector
circuits of tuned R.F. type receivers. As
it was developed one read of simple
T.R.F. receivers claiming 9kc. selec-
tivity. The application of iron cores to
I.F. transformers in superhets followed
later. In Australia, the I.F. channel of
the modern superhet received first atten-
tion. Now, as prophesied by this page
years ago, receivers are being made in
this country with Sirufer cores right
through the signal frequency and inter-
mediate frequency channels.
From Ducon Condenser Co., the Aus-
tralian agents for Sirufer, come specifi-
cations for a wide range of tuning coils.
Development so far has resulted in the
evolution of four coils —two types of
aerial coils, a band-pass tuning coil and
an R.F. coupling coil. The cross or
Haspelkern type of core has been used
in each case, and the winding data refer
to the 1500-500 kc. spectrum in conjunc-
tion with the Airzone bar-type variable
condenser. There is sufficient variation
by means of the trimming screw to
render the coil suitable for use with the
Stromberg-Carlson gangs of the same
nominal capacity maximum. Some diffi-
culty may be experienced in the case of
gangs with high minimum capacity, in
view of the somewhat high self-capacity
of the coils.
High-gain Aerial Coupling Coil.—
Particularly suitable for band-pass coup-
ling. Its high stage-gain and high-
frequency characteristic are important
factors. Primary (aerial), 16 turns 9/41
Litz wound in one slot of the Trolitul
former; secondary, 35 plus 36 turns
9/41 Litz wound in the other slots. The
secondary should be wound commencing
from the centre slot, and end at the flat
(trimming) end of the core. The primary
can then be wound in the third slot. This
ensures that the aerial and grid ends
(outers) of the windings are separated,
i.e., the low potential ends of the wind-
ings are together. Failing this tracking
is impossible, and it will cause bad cross-
modulation at the high frequency end of
the band. The coil is then mounted in
an insulating strip with four connecting
eyelets, or lugs, the strip serving to mount
the coil on the chassis.
(The size of shield used throughout
affects the gain only slightly, but makes
appreciable changes in inductance. It is a
matter for experiment with the actual
shield required to get the correct number
of turns for the secondary. In most cases
the variations may be taken up by the
trimming screw.)
The aerial coil gives, by itself (with no
band-pass circuits), stage gains of 25 at
1400 kc., 20 at IOOOkc. and 15 at 600 kc.
Band-pass Tuning Coils. —These are
used with the high-gain aerial coupling
coil: 75 turns 9/41 Litz wound in centre
slot of Trolitul former. This method
gives minimum self-capacity in the coil.
In conjunction with the high-gain
aerial coil, and using standard low-fre-
quency characteristic band-pass constants
with A.V.C., stage gains of 10 at
1400 kc., 9.5 at IOOOkc. and 9 at 600ke.
are obtainable.
High - impedanc£ Capacity - coupled
Aerial Coil. —The aerial coil described
previously is not particularly suitable for
use in two-gang tuned receivers. A coil
with considerably less stage gain and
with particular care given to selectivity
is desirable. The high-impedance pri-
mary type, with capacity coupling from
aerial to grid, is the best of all antenna
coupling coils: Primary, 275 turns
honeycomb wound 40 S.W.G. D.S.C. |in.
wide, on }in. tube former and glued to
the face at the trimming end of the
cross core, so that the near edge of the
winding is l-32in. from the core face;
secondary, 35 plus 36 turns 9/41 Litz
wound in the two slots near the trim-
ming end of the core, and started in
the end slot. Thus the grid (outer) con-
nection is furthest from the primary.
The same mounting arrangements are
used as in the previous type.
In its present form (with no capacity
coupling) this coil has a pronounced low-
frequency characteristic. Stage gains
are: 3 at 1400 kc., 6 at IOOOkc., 8 at
600 kc.
An aerial coil with this low-frequency
characteristic is useful when in a re-
ceiver with a stage of R.F. amplification
the R.F. coupling coil has a high-fre-
quency gain characteristic. The two
couplers then combine to give an appre-
ciably flat overall gain curve. The addi-
tion of a capacitance between aerial and
grid is necessary to increase the gain at
the high-frequency end. The size of this
capacity will be small, and will depend
on the length of aerial used. For general
purposes a value of six to eight micro-
farads produces the desired result. Stage
gains then are: 10 at 1400 kc., 9 at
IOOOkc., 8 at 600 kc., giving a slight high-
frequency characteristic to the coil. Cor-
responding stage gains for the best of
similar types of air-core coils are: 3 at
1400 kc., 3.8 at IOOOkc., 4.5 at 600 kc.
If the capacity coupling on the latter
is increased to improve the gain at the
H.F. end, the selectivity is largely
destroyed. A comparison of band widths
with the two coils of the same
type (i.e., high impedance capacity) are:
Air Core: Band width at IOOOkc.,
60kc.
Iron Core: Band width at IOOOkc.,
55kc.
Both 80Db down and with the same I.F.
channel.
R.F. Coupling Coil. —Suitable for
use as an R.F. coupler. Primary, 69
turns 9/41 Litz in the mounting end
slot ; secondary, 37 turns plus 38 turns
9/41 Litz in the other slots. The same
winding procedure must be followed as
with the slot-wound primary type of
aerial coil. Very high gain and good
selectivity are given by this coil.
In all cases care is necessary in manu-
facture and matching. Thorough desic-
cation and wax-immersion are essential
for the best performance. When waxing
(which should be done before, the final
matching and setting) the trimmer screw
should be removed and the hole closed
by means of a spare mounting screw.
The final matching to standard may then
be done with no risk of subsequent
alteration.
Oscillator Coil. —For use with the
foregoing coils ; it should be honeycomb
wound on iin. Paxolin tube. There is no
advantage in having the oscillator coil
on iron. Owing to the small number of
turns which would be required, the
matching becomes very critical. Primary,
40 turns 9/41 Litz (close to secondary);
secondary, 50 plus 51 turns 9/41 Litz.
Match secondary by adjusting spacing
between pies.
D. B. K.
Radio Comment.
The annual awards of the Institution of
Radio Engineers (Australia) for the best
papers presented to or delivered before
Designed by engineers of Radio Corporation Pty., Ltd.,
Victoria, this is the new Astor “Topper” aerial for use in
motor-cars with steel-top bodies.
the institution go to V. H. Dudman, wave-change switch.
Sydney (full member), G. J. White, 35 guineas.
Adelaide (associate member), and R. J.
Dorsett. Adelaide (junior).
“Dial”: So successful have been the
tests carried out by N. Pusey, of A.W.A.,
at the new wireless station at Archer-
field aerodrome (Brisbane), VMZ, that
the station is now open for sending and
receiving messages. Private messages can
be exchanged with passengers on aero-
plane services operating to and from
Brisbane, and airline companies are able
to keep in touch with the pilots of
machines equipped with wireless.
* * 'i' *
“Gramo”: It seems strange that so
few radio-gramophone combinations are
offered for sale by manufacturers. Of
those available the cheapest is about 52
guineas. The advantages of electrical
reproduction over the old mechanical
method are many. Wide volume range
can be obtained with very little distor-
tion, and tonal quality is much improved.
The radiogram combination should be
invaluable to country people for enter-
tainment when radio reception is ruined
by static.
Stromberg-Carlson 607 Six-
valve Battery Superhet.
Prolonged research on battery-receiver
design, under varied conditions, has re-
sulted in the addition of a further bat-
tery-operated model to the Stromberg-
Carlson range. The chief features claimed
are absence of background noise and
high sensitivity on both wave-bands.
A six-valve dual-wave receiver, em-
ploying an R.F. and two T.F. stages, both
on short-wave and broadcast bands, en-
sures high sensitivity and exceptionally
low noise level. Tuning range on the
broadcast band is from 195 to 570
metres; and the short-wave portion
covers from 16.8 to 51 metres. On test,
the 607 proved remarkably sensitive. On
short waves, London and Berlin came
through at great strength.
Economy of A-battery consumption is
assured by the use of low-consumption
IA6-type valves, and a special battery
switch allows the dial lights to be extin-
guished while the receiver is in opera-
tion. It is applicable to the Air-Cell.
Tuning on both wave bands is remark-
ably speedy, using a vertical straight-
line tuning dial with a dual-dial drive
ratio of 10.1 and 60.1 through a large
vernier control
knob. Outstanding
features of the set
are the pentode
output system,
non - microphonic
condensers, auto-
matic volume con-
trol, covered coils,
silver-plated con-
tacts and sturdy-
steel chassis. Ex-
tremes of climate
have been taken
into consideration
in the design.
The receiver is
operated by four
controls, which,
reading from left
to right, are: Bat-
tery switch and
tone control,
volume, tuning and
It is retailed at
Amateur Chatter.
It is evident that many amateurs are
not conversant with the experimental
regulations; otherwise they would not
permit friends (unless certificated) to talk
from their stations. Regulation 118,
clause 3, is plain enough: “The trans-
mission and receipt of messages for third
parties, or of any message for payment in
cash or kind, is expressly forbidden.”
When Jack or Jill comes to the micro-
phone and indulges in banter, such con-
versations are likely to be classed as
“third party.” A particularly annoying
breach of regulations is the unnecessary
use by some stations of recordings in
transmissions. Comparison of results be-
tween two stations using music for test-
ing purposes is fair enough, but when a
station plays records for an hour at a
stretch it is nothing but selfish and
unreasonable use of a band
IDuring the W.I.A. field day, 27 /6 / ’37.
stations VK2ZC and VK2NO maintained
good five-metre communication. There
is no reason why, with Beam aerials at
reasonably good locations, consistent
u.-s.-w. communication should not be
possible between Sydney and Newcastle.
During the field day nothing was heard
of VK2GU, but it should only be a
matter of time before five-metre signals
travel between Canberra and Sydney.
Most stations do not go to enough
pains to secure efficient radiation. Apart
from faulty transmitters and aerials,
there are many receivers which are use-
less. Most of the old types of transmit-
ting and receiving valves are a distinct
handicap on five or even ten metres. The
receiver is equally important in u.-s.-w.
progress.
In between times, the writer has in-
dulged in a little 40-metre communica-
tion. Five or six years ago this band
was chaotic. Now it is the 20-metre band
that is at fault. A W 6 said that he had
come to the old band for relief from the
bedlam on 20. One imagines that 40 will
not have clear gaps for long. With all
the familiar winter characteristics, it is a
poor DX band for night work at present
—but always a useful one.
VK2NO.
Australian 56mc. Receiving
Record.
During the five-metre field day organ-
ised on 27/6/’37 by the N.S.W. Division
of the Wireless Institute, several country
experimenters listened for the stations
located in Sydney, Newcastle and Port
Kembla. J. E. Parris, VK2DN, of
Deniliquin (N.S.W.), reports that a five-
metre station was heard weakly with
I.C.W. signals at 12.5 p.m. and 12.11
p.m. This checks with the scheduled
time transmission from station VK2NO,
located at Waverley, Sydney. Further-
more, the directive aerial array at
VK2NO was pointing due south-west,
with the other side north-east for the
work with VK2ZC at Newcastle. Denili-
quin lies due s.-w. of Sydney, and the
airline distance is 360 miles.
VK2DN was using a three-valve supei-
regenerator for reception, with a long
aerial, five half-waves in length, sloping
in the Sydney direction. The signal was
fading rapidly, and thus too weak to
identify as to callsign, but, as VK2NO
was the only Sydney station transmitting
during the 15-minute period, there ap-
pears to be little doubt as to the origin
of the signal. Cyclonic conditions may
have been responsible for what must
have been a reflected and not purely a
ground wave. The transmitter at
VK2NO used two 35Ts in the final stage
with 100-watt input, constant, carrier,
with buzzer modulation.
The N.S.W. Division of the W.I.A.
intends to run protracted monthly tests
especially for country stations in pre-
arranged zones at scheduled times. That
something definite will eventually be
done in the nature of long-distance five-
metre communication seems likely, and
it is worth striving for.
D. B. K.
VK3TL—A Well-planned
Station.
Situated at Kerang, Vic., is the ex-
perimental radio station of VK3TL,
owned and operated by R. E. Trebil-
cock. The photograph shows that one
need not be a professional radio en-
gineer to make a thoroughly good job of
amateur radio. The transmitter, on the
right, has four stages, operating on 80,


S'
iJZ
V
?
1 ktP*'
#f>r
"National Melodies" over 2CH at 9.20
p.m. (Fridays); 2SM at 3.30 p.m.
(Mondays, Tuesdays, Thursdays, Fridays).
Valves can make or mar your set. To be
sure of clear reception, fit your receiver
with Radiotrons; universally acclaimed
the most reliable valves in the world.
RADIOTRON
AUSTRALIAN
GENERAL ||| ELECTRIC
LIMITED
Sydney Melbourne Brisbane
Adelaide Hobart
Amalgamated Wireless
(Australasia) Ltd.
47 York Street, Sydney
167-169 Queen Street, Melbourne
(Advertisement of
Amalgamated
Wireless Valve
Co. Ltd ]
40, 20 and 10 metres. Each stage has a
separate power supply and individual
grid bias. Four Philips B eliminators
serve for biasing. The valve line-
up is a 47 as crystal oscillator, 46 buffer-
doubler, 210 second buffer-doubler and
push-pull 210’s in the final.
Modulation is by a pair of 250’s in
Class-A push-pull, with transformer
modulation and the plate supply to the
modulated stage taken through a choke,
Modulation can be applied either to the
final stage or the second buffer by press-
ing a switch. If the second buffer is
modulated, the final stage is used as a
linear amplifier. The transmitter is built
in “breadboard” style, with the boards
sliding into racks in the cabinet. Sliding
doors protect the apparatus against dust
when not in use. The bottom shelf car-
ries the modulator unit and the rectifiers
(four 81’s in bridge circuit for the final).
On the second shelf are the crystal
oscillator and two buffer stages, and
above this the final stage. The aerial
switch and aerial feeder tuning controls
are in the space above.
In the cupboard forming the lower part
of the transmitter cabinet are housed
the big power transformer, several smaller
power and filament transformers, the
four B eliminators for bias, the power
pack supplying the receiver, speech am-
plifier and speaker, and another for a
vacuum tube voltmeter with a “magic
eye” null indicator.
The station has three aerials, one a
half-wave for 80 metres, running from
the top of an 80ft. mast to another 42ft.
high, the next a sloping half-wave aerial
for 40 metres, and the other a vertical
half-wave system for the same band.
They are all end-fed by Zepp feeders.
On the operating table are a five-valve
superhet built according to The Bulle-
tin’s Ideal Amateur Superhet design, but
with an additional audio stage using a
42 for speaker work ; an electron-coupled
frequency meter monitor and a telephony
monitor. The cupboard at the left con-
tains the speech amplifier, which has a
cascade of three 56’s resistance-coupled,
gramophone motor, turntable, pickup and
spare gear.
An experimental radio station laid out
like this is ideal —good apparatus in the
right place, and plenty of room to move
around.
D. B. K.
The Importance of
Telegraphy.
Radio communication has grown
through the stages of the spark with mag-
netic and coherer detectors, the Poulsen
arc and tikker receiver and the valve
oscillator and regenerative detector re-
ceiver for continuous wave signals of
finer frequency discrimination to the
modern methods of speech transmission
and reception. The spoken word has
naturally become the most generally used
method of communication, where pos-
sible. But the Morse code must remain
of great importance.
The case of the Putnam ’plane amply
demonstrated the need for telegraphy as
a means of conveying vital information
where telephony fails. Amateurs in Cali-
fornia and Honolulu are reported to have
heard verbal calls from the distressed
’plane, but owing to weak signals mes-
sages were uncertain. With even an R 5
carrier the distinguishing of the human
voice under selective fading and static
conditions can be extremely difficult, but
an R 5 carrier keyed for telegraphy is
normally 100 p.c. readable unless an in-
terfering station is on the same frequency.
In that case both methods might result
in non-reception, but telegraphy has the
better chance.
Coaching in
Morse operation to
an extent sufficient
to send properly-
spaced symbols is
only a matter of
days. When Smith
and Shiers were
bushed in their
Ryan monoplane
in the Kimberleys
early in 1930, it
was telegraphy that
saved them. Smith
was coached for 10
days before leaving
Sydney. He had
on his instrument-
board a chart of the Morse alpha-
bet. When forced down he sent his
distress calls and information as to pos-
sible bearings, and his calls were heard
in Wyndham and Darwin.
Under his license terms, the experi-
menter is supposed to be a proficient
operator in every sense of the word, and
the importance of telegraphy must not
be forgotten.
D. B. K.
What's What in Radio.
The speedy growth in the number of
listeners in the United Kingdom is an
indication of the size of the home market,
to which the attention of British manufac-
turers was, naturally, first directed. Dur-
ing 14 years, the turnover of the industry
has been built up to approximately
£30,000,000 p.a. The magnitude of this
home market has been the material factor
controlling the production of radio goods
in Britain.
X * X x
“Norwood”: It is difficult to under-
stand why dual-speakers for receivers are
not more popular. When volume is re-
quired— organ recitals, for example
single speakers tend to overload and dis-
tort. The dual job will go on until the
signal lifts the roof off without appreci-
able distortion. I notice that in America
duals are not only practically standard,
but four speakers are often encountered,
the ordinary dual aided by a minute
“tweeter” for treble frequencies and a
big bass “boomer.”
Condenser Trimming
Improvement.
“Practical Wireless” (England) gives
details of a differential method of match-
mg two adjacent tuned circuits, as in
the R.F. and detector stages of a superhet ■
input. The illustration shows how it is
done. Such a condenser can be easily
imorovised by modifying an old air-
lmpioviseu uy uiuuuyuig ou
spaced variable differential condenser,
or it can be made up from a midget vari-
able by reconstruction for split stator
application. It is claimed that by this
method a greater degree of accuracy can
be obtained than with the usual trimming
arrangement
diitiugciiiciu.
Honors for Australian
Radio Scientists.
Dr. G. Builder, Dr. A. L, Green and
Dr. O. O. Pulley, members of the scien-
tific staff of A.W.A., have been awarded
the Overseas Premium of the Institution
of Electrical Engineers (Great Britain)
for investigations carried out on behalf
of the Radio Research Board of the
C.S. and I.R. The results of their research
were submitted to the institution in the
form of a paper on “Control of Wire-
less Signal Variations” by Drs. Green and
Dr. A. L. Green, Dr. G. Builder and Dr.
O. O. Pulley, of the A.W.A. Scientific
Staff.
Builder, and one on “Control of Phase
Fading in Long Distance Radio Com-
munication” by Drs. Green and Pulley.
Radio Trade Spotlight.
The current issue of “Radio” contains
a complete description by John Kraus,
WBJK, of his “flat-top beam” aerial
array for 20-metre work. A previous
issue gave the bare essentials, but this
time Kraus gives details of feeding and
matching. It should appeal to 20-metre
’phone men desirous of getting the last
ounce out of signals aimed towards the
U.S.A. ’phone channel. There are also
details of an entirely new but very effi-
cient method of constructing a five- or
ten-metre final amplifier. Linear ampli-
fiers come in for attention by W6DHG,
and other articles include “High Sensi-
tivitv Dynamic Microphones,” “Low
Cost Crystal Microphone Ampli-
fier,” “All Bands with Bi-Push,”
“De Luxe Two-volt Battery
Superhet,” “Push-button Antenna
Directivity” and “Semi-automatic
Transmitter Control by Relays.”
The surest way of getting the
monthly copy of “Radio” is to
subscribe direct. Subscription is 18s. 6d.
annually, through The Bulletin office,
252 George-street, Sydney, and copies
are mailed direct from the U.S. publisher.
The Question Box.
My Ideal Amateur Superhet shows , traces
of instability when using it on 10 -metre ’phone
stations. The instability manifests itself as an
audio growl in the loudspeaker. The receiver
is carefully designed and the layout correct,
with proper screening. How can trouble be
remedied ? —570.
This is a peculiarity of the original circuit,
and can usually be overcome by reducing the
cathode resistor of the 79 valve from 1000
ohms to 400 ohms. In the Ultra-Gainer de-
scribed by Jones in his 1937 Handbook, grid-
leak detection is used in the second detector.
This method might be well worth trying, as the
change will involve very little alteration.
* * * *
(1) Should both detector grid and cathode
coils for short-wave bands in the Wide-World
Four be close-wound ? (2) Any advantage in
using a shielding braid on any of the leads?
(3) Should leads to control grids of 32 and 15
valves go from the fixed plates of variable con-
densers or direct from grid coils? —562.
(1) Yes. (2) Braiding the R.F. stage grid lead
is resorted to only when instability is present
or is difficult -to clear normally. A little gain
may thus be sacrificed, but it is often worth
it. (3) Depends on which is the shorter path,
according to the layout.
I intend converting a two-volt battery broad-
cast superhet to one for 20, 40, 80 metres and
broadcast, with provision for Morse reception
also, and possibility of extension up to the
100-metre marine wave channel. Valves avail-
able are 32, I HL, IA6 and PM22A. Any
suggestions ? —563.
Probably the chassis can be used, if large
enough, but a receiver of this nature is likely
to take up much more room than the ordinary
broadcast type chassis. Better to make a clean
start on a new receiver; probably some 'of the
parts in the old one can be used. You will
need an extra valve for beat oscillator. A
good magazine for such designs is “Television
and Short-wave” (U.S.A.), obtainable in
Sydney from Swains, Pitt-street.
I know nothing about wireless but would
like to try my hand at building a receiver from
a kit set if procurable? Good daylight range
on loudspeaker would be necessary over a
500-miles radius ? —564.
The Radiokes Co., Cleveland-street, Redfern,
N.S.W., specialises in kit sets for the con-
structor. Each outfit includes complete instruc-
tions, with point-to-point wiring and ordinary
circuit diagrams. There are many five- and six-
valve battery superhet kit sets available. Write
to the co. direct.
* * * *
In the circuit diagram of the Jones four-valve
u.-s.-w. superhet. (B. 24/4/’35) a condenser is
shown connected between the cathodes. of the
two 6D6 valves and earth. The value looks
like 10 mfd. Is this correct? —565.
Yes.
* * si: s':
(1) Has a separate beat note oscillator any
advantage over an oscillating second detector?
(2) Is a superhet with autodyne first detector
suitable for five-metre reception ? (3) Where can
I obtain a specimen copy of “T. and R.
Bulletin” ? —566.
(1) It has the advantage that it does not
“pull” the I.F. frequency as does the oscillating
second detector. On the other hand, the oscil-
lating second detector is apt to give quieter
C.W. operation. (2) Yes. The resistance-
coupled five-metre superhet by Jones (U.S.A.)
uses this method, and is quite suitable with
tuned intermediates. (3) Secretary, Radio
Society of Great Britain, 53. Victoria-street,
London.
(1) Is a license for a short-wave receiver
necessary? (2) Where can I get a generator
to give plate and filament voltages for belt
drive from an engine? (3) Also a pedal-driven
high-tension supply unit? —567.
(1) Yes. (2) Such generators are not made
as stock lines, but manufacturers such as
O’Donnell - Griffin, Druitt-street, Sydney, will
make them to order. (3) Amalgamated Wireless
can supply a pedal outfit as used in stations
in the Islands, or you could obtain a suitable
generator and rig up an old bicycle for the
purpose.
(1) What make of dual-wave battery superhet
is best suited for use in Cooma, N.S.W.? (2)
Are Air-Cells any good? —s6l.
(1) Cannot make recommendations. Receivers
advertised in The Bulletin can be relied upon,
and the outstanding features of many makes
are reviewed. (2) The Air-Cell is a boon to
the outback listener with poor facilities for
battery charging. It is fully proved and
thoroughly reliable.
X X $
(1) What broadcasting stations could one
hear in Roma, Q., with an ordinary crystal set?
(2) When will 4 ZR come into operation, and
what is its power? (3) Best type of earth for
a mystery crystal set? —560.
(1) Only local ones, within a few miles’ range.
(2) No information. Write to Chief Postmaster,
Brisbane. (3) Don’t understand the term
“mystery.” Generally, any crystal receiver
should have the best possible direct earth
connection. A perforated kerosene-tin filled
with coke, buried deep, with a heavy-gauge wire
soldered to the tin, is good. If the ground is
watered, so much the better.


HITS
LYS
£
PROOF
MU>*M MM)
100 % Australian-made
from Australian Material
LYSAGHT’S
Wire Netting Fencing Wire
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in every
Roll of Netting .
i V’iSg3
p* i
V * '
H
W -i
*i -
V * * ■' '*
it
pSS
:W:; " i
V**
: \ m
: j®
•r'
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Brothers & Co., Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street, Sydney
SPECIFY
"LYSAGHT'S" WIRE. WIRE N ETTING.
ETC-
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
Mutton and Wool Quality.
“C.V.S.”: The experience of U.S.
merino breeders lends strength to my
assertion (B. 26/5/’37) that “it is doubt-
ful whether mutton excellence and wool
quality can be bred together.” Owing
to its large home consumption and the
unsuitability of most of its pastures to
other breeds, the U.S. depends on the
merino for mutton, and the large-framed
Rambouillet is bred extensively. The
result has been deterioration in wool
quality, and breeders are now striving to
improve the fleece without sacrificing
carcass value.
The main drawback to merino mutton
is that it will not keep in good condition
when frozen. If science should discover
a process whereby merino mutton may be
frozen as satisfactorily as crossbred it
may prove a curse rather than a boon
to Australia, unless breeders are careful
to avoid the mistake of sacrificing wool
for meat.
The Corriedale and Polwarth men-
tioned by “B-gar” (B. 23/6/’37) are use-
ful in the. higher-rainfall areas, especially
where improved pastures have become
too heavy for the merino ; but they are
really a compromise, and it is note-
worthy that the stronger-woolled Corrie-
dale finds most favor as a mutton sheep.
Compared with merino, Polwarth wool
is higher-yielding and equally as bright,
but overlong and inclined to be “stary.”
The broader Corriedale wool is inclined
to become harsh or wiry, but shows
excellent crimp formation. And with
both breeds heavy culling is necessary if
evenness is to be maintained.
Sheep-feeding During Drought.
“Sheepo”: Those using self-feeders
would be well advised to watch closely the
manner in which the feed is distributed ;
often the stronger sheep get most of the
feed and those that require it most
get nothing. It’s well worth the trouble
to draft off the weaker sheep and feed
them separately.
Feeding to save all the sheep is the
rule to follow. Start before the sheep
get too low in condition. Weak sheep
can’t be expected to pull through on a
meagre supply of artificial feed, but if
given a daily ration before they get too
low they’ll have a better chance.
There are plenty of fodders and sup-
plements, such as nuts, that will do good
service. Edible scrub is of high value
for drought feeding purposes, but a
balancing agent in the form of a lick is
essential to prevent indigestion troubles.
Don’t stop feeding as soon as the first
green shoots appear after rain ; it’s then
that losses happen a-plenty. Keep on
feeding until the growth of grass warrants
leaving off.
The Mules Method.
“Wally D.”: “Narooma” (B. 16/6/’37)
says that 20 out of 24 Queensland gra-
ziers believe the Mules method a good
way to get rid of wrinkled sheep. I
am inclined to agree with the other four.
The use of the Mules treatment simply
means that you are breeding into wrinkly-
breeched sheep (not away from them).
Because every ewe that has had wrinkles
removed has her chance of life length-
ened, in a few years, one can safely say,
there would be 90 to 100' per cent,
of lambs (whose mothers and grand-
mothers had been treated as Mules sug-
gests) showing wrinkles on the breech.
The only way I can see out of the
difficulty is to buy plain-bodied rams.
Rams can be bought with large fronts
but a very plain body, and still be heavy
cutters.
On one stud in N.S.W. where I worked,
all the paddocks of lambing ewes had to
be ridden over every day during the
lambing period, the men having received
strict instructions how to assist ewes
which had difficulty in bearing. There
were a large, number of these ewes, and
I believe the reason was —the method
having been followed for 50 years—the
ewe. and lamb had so often been saved,
and the owners were breeding into bad
producers.
Cheap Wool Bins.
“C.V.S.”: Cheap and serviceable wool
bins may be made from very light timber.
Material required: Hin. by Hin. Oregon,
H*n. by -jin. Oregon and lin. by iin.
hardwood slats.
Bins may be built 6ft. high, 6ft. deep
and 4ft. 6in. wide—-if possible, let a wall
form the back of the bins.
Use Hin. by 14in. oregon for corner
posts, and three uprights of 14in. by
“ Orright , missus, I'll do that ringbarkin' as soon as I change into me old
clobber !”
Oregon, spaced at 18in., to each wall, the
narrow edge turned into the bin. Also
use Hin. by |in. Oregon for the top
front crossbar to give lateral stability,
and for the top horizontal of each wall.
The walls should be completed with hori-
zontals of lin. by -}in. hardwood slats
spaced at 6in., and a diagonal hardwood
slat brace should be used in each will,
and another across the top of each bin.
All timber should be dressed ; other-
wise wool will cling to the walls. Hes-
sian should be tacked to the walls of
piece- and lock-bins.
The material for a row of six bins
built against a wall to the suggested
measurements would be about 84ft. of
Hin. by Hin. Oregon, 195 ft. of Hin. by
-Un. Oregon and 570 ft. of hardwood slats.
Material would cost about- £3 ss. (city
price), plus a few pence for nails, etc.
If the back walls had to be built, 84ft.
of Hin. by 14in. Oregon, 294 ft. of
Hin. by |in. Oregon and 910 ft. of hard-
wood slats would be required. Cost
about £4 9s.
Bins may be built on a concrete floor
by fastening the uprights on to Hin. by
4in. Oregon fixed in the concrete.
Contract Shearing.
“Narooma”: Advantages of the con-
tract system are that if saves the station
the worry of engaging men and organis-
ing and running the shearing, and offers
a guarantee that the work will be com-
menced by a certain date and carried
out as expeditiously as possible. The
station also knows just how much its
shearing is going to cost. All the owner
has to do is to put the woollies into the
shed and take away the shorn sheep and
the bales of wool.
Defects are cut-throat competition
between contractors and the attitude of
graziers who sacrifice the fruit of twelve
months’ breeding, feeding and the grow-
ing of good wool by entrusting shearing
and clip preparation to the lowest ten-
derer, irrespective of the ability of the
contractor to do the work at the price
quoted.
A low contract price may mean that
the clip will suffer by much more than
the margin between the low quote and
a fair price. The contractor relies on
fast shearers. He cannot afford to
employ learners.
Occasionally the contractor’s price in-
cludes handpieces, glue, emery, dupli-
cates, oil and classing. . Sometimes the
classer is a first-class wool, man, some-
times not. The classer should work in
the interests of the owner of the wool,
which he. cannot do if he is dominated
by the contractor.
The system of contract shearing at
actual cost, plus an agreed overhead
charge per sheep, is fairest and best. The
owner notifies the contractor that he
will have a certain number of sheep to
be shorn, and that he wishes to start on
a certain date. He may nominate his'
own classer, his own shearers, if he
wishes, and stipulate for as many shed-
hands as he thinks fit. The contractor
engages the men with a view to quality
shearing rather than speed alone, because
his aim is to shear the sheep to the
satisfaction of the owner with the mini-
mum of cuts, scratches and crippled
sheep. Ample, shedhands are available
to handle fleeces and pieces, yet shear-
ing costs are kept low—otherwise the
(Continued on page 44.)
contractor could not hope to compete
with a straight-out quoted price.
Sheep in Queensland.
“Walliew”: I have just completed a
1000-mile trip round the North and
Central Queensland sheep country.
Fairly substantial and general rains in
March have restored the Mitchell and
Flinders grasses to good-season quality.
Further May and June rains have in the
main been beneficial. With the tains has
come the fly problem again—bad this
year. Graziers anticipate a good season,
provided the summer rains do not fail.
Surface and artesian waters are good.
The bad years, however, have brought
stock losses. The problem of restocking
is more acute than most Queenslanders
realise. The disastrous 1935 June rains
accounted for 50 p.c. of the losses. Dis-
tricts which in 1930 held 1,172,000 sheep
and in 1931 1,272,000 held in 1936 only
489,000 and this year hold 700,000. The
average yearly loss on the 1930 figures
has been 51 p.c. (522,000) and on the
1931 figures 61 p.c. (735,000). The loss
to shearing employment alone was
£190,000 for 1935-36 and 1936-37. Rail
freight loss for the same period was
£140,000.
When, conditions were satisfactory for
restocking, firms held back, buying only
when prices rose. One grazier, for in-
stance, was refused permission to buy
ewes at 125., and eventually allowed
to buy when they were at 21s. Other
firms are putting men off their holdings
just at a time when there are chances
of recovering their money on the good
season ahead. Government and financial
houses must co-operate to get the indus-
try back on the basis where production
will result in sufficient to carry the coun-
try on to further development.
Government co-operation so far has
been towards the adjustment of rentals
and tenures and the granting of addi-
tional grazing areas to smaller holdings.
Yet the Government pinpricks the grazier
. by forcing him to place £2OO or £3OO into
buildings for shearing when the finances
of the place will not stand it —thus over-
capitalising his property.
The initial closer-settlement scheme has
fallen down. Formerly large leaseholds
. could use the best country for breeding,
whilst. the poor country carried dry
sheep. Now the land is fit for dry sheep
.only. Dry sheep run in the proportion
of one to three or four acres, but for
breeding the basis should be one to seven
or eight acres. The final wool prices in
Queensland reached 27|d. for greasy and
/ 39jd. for scoured, bringing the wool
cheque for 1936-37 to £10,750,000. To
this are to be added the results of the
direct London sales (representing 10 p.c.
of total production). Of what use is this
news to people who, after slaving to
develop their properties, have been left
with nothing, but have good grass
to-day,' only wanting the stock to put
on it?
Lung worms in Sheep.
“B-gar”: Few graziers seem to realise
that drenching is of no avail for treat-
ing sheep infested with lungworms. But
it does get rid of stomach and intestinal
worms, and thereby gives the sheep a
better chance of fighting against the lung-
worms.
The most common symptoms asso-
ciated with lungworm infestation arc
constant coughing, loss of condition, ex-
cessive scouring and periodical dribbling
from the mouth and nose.
To treat lungworms an intratracheal
injection is necessary. Good results have
been obtained by injecting into the wind-
pipe with a hypodermic syringe a mix-
ture of oil of creosote and chloroform,
100 c.cs. of each, olive oil 600 c.cs. and
oil of turpentine 200 c.cs. For lambs


It
111!
m
<
Mmk?,,
Illlllf
mmm
STRIKES?
In starting from cold, is your engine deprived of essential lubri-
cation because you use “stay-in” Oil —Oil that stays in the sump,
thick, slow-flowing through cold? If it is, even momentarily,
engine parts, particularly cylinders and bearings, are forced to.
operate improperly lubricated, resulting inevitably in excessive
heat and friction . . . wear . . . eventually, costly repairs!
If you have the slightest doubt as to how your Oil is re-actin
to present weather conditions, don't take any chances —instead,
take the precaution of changing now to the new temperature-
proof Atlantic Motor Oil.
Refined until it contains nothing but pure full-bodied lubricant,
. ere
the New Atlantic Motor Oil comes from the world’s
costliest
pure paraffin base crude, yet it actually costs you no more.
Having no impurities such as sludge, carbon and gum-forming
elements to cause congestion, it circulates freely at Winter tem-
peratures, a quality particularly essential in modern closer-fitted,
quicker-operating engines. <
Ask any good Reseller for the New Atlantic Motor Oil regard
it as your Oil and benefit by the economy of a good lubricant!
If you drive a high compression car, particularly any model
built since 1934, try Atlantic Ethyl also. You will find this high
anti-knock fuel the perfect running mate to Atlantic Motor Oil,
particularly for instant Winter starting .
MOTOR OIL
PURE PA
Af F I
A S E
ATLANTIC UNION OIL CO. LTD. AMO 3-48-37


IFTO U'RE^ STWG
Not just good fitting, but
soft, roomy, cushionlike
comfort, try this new
Abbey capless Boot.
When you feel the soft
Wallaby Skin upper
mould around your foot,
and your toes spread
naturally in their easy-
fitting fronts, you realise
what comfort really is.
Try just one pair and
you’ll become a constant
wearer.
Don’t forget your Abbey Polish
for Black, Brown or Patent
Leather, Price 6d. per tin. Special
Abbey Cleaning Outfit, Price 2/6.
4408
An Abbey Model in Black Wallaby Skin, made in
full and half sizes, and also in wide and extra-wide
fittings.
Price 37/6
ABBEY SHOES
316 George St., 224 Pitt St.,
SYDNEY.
Telegraphic Address: “ABBEY BOOTS, SYDNEY.”
XMAS FIJI EXCURSION
One Week in Fiji.
R.M.S. "Niagara”
leaves Sydney 23rd Dec.,
arrives Suva 31 st Dec.
R.M.M.V. "Aorangi”
leaves Suva Ist Jan.,
arrives Sydney 15 th Jan.
First Class Return Excursion Fare £33 (from Sydney)
EXCURSIONS TO HONOLULU
a delightful 7|- weeks’ trip: 19 days in Hawaii, or longer
if desired, by “NIAGARA” and “AORANGI,”
sailing every four weeks from Sydney.
Return Fares:—
First Class £72. Cabin Class £52.
(From Sydney)
Apply:—
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., LTD.
(inc. in N.Z.)
247 George Street,
Sydney
or
59 William Street,
Melbourne
Land Men/
Don’t be worried about Income Tax
“The Bulletin” has made arrangements with Mr. H. Rawson
Stevenson, the well-known accountant and taxation expert,
to publish
The Primary Producer’s Account Book
(Price £1),
which has been specially designed to simplify the keeping of
accounts by the man on the land and to enable his income-tax return
to be compiled,
All that is necessary is to enter the amount of income or
expenditure on the page indicated in the index of the book
Ringbarking—Wages . . . . Page 39
Rations . . . . ~ 15
Sheep bought ~ 20
Wire netting . . . ~ 61
and so on.
There is a page for every item.
When completed, send the book to H. Rawson Stevenson, 12
O'Connell Street, Sydney
and your taxation return will be
prepared tree of further charge by experts in such a way as to
reduce your tax to the lowest limit consistent with the law.
The book will be sent back to you with income-tax return as
soon as prepared
Checking of Assessments. —The fee does not include the
checking of assessments made by the Taxation Departments.
Arrangements for doing this may be made with Mr. Stevenson
for a small charge.
NOTE.—The reserves the right to cancel any obligation by the return
of the purchase money in full, It' is not intended to have recourse; to this provision
where it can be reasonably avoided. The company will not be responsible for errors
or omissions on the part of the taxpayer.
Send your cheque for 20/-, plus exchange, to
“THE BULLETIN” NEWSPAPER CO., LTD.,
252 George Street (Box 252IBB), Sydney,
and your account book will be forwarded to you.
ffuffyullelz/rL
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free,
FOX DECOY WHISTLES
MAGNET Fox Decoy Whistles are the stan-
dard of good fox-shooters throughout Australia,
because they are simple to blow, accurate in
tone, effective in use and fool the most cun-
ning fox in the bush. Only 2/2, post paid, with
full instructions, from
F. O’NEILL,
Yagobie, N.S.W.
the dose is 2 to 3 c.cs., according to ages,
for weaners 4 c.cs. and for grown sheep
5 to 6 c.cs.
Keep Your Pigs.
“F 34”: At present the seasonal out-
look in Queensland dairying and agri-
cultural districts is far from bright, and
many farmers will be tempted to dis-
pose of their breeding pigs to help tide
over the winter. Over the last few
years Queensland has been building up a
fair pork export trade. The drought
last year caused a big curtailment of pig-
breeding activities, and if the present
conditions cause a similar reduction next
year may find us with little or no surplus
over local requirements.
Luckily the pig has a very wide range
of diet, and breeders can usually be car-
ried along somehow or other even though
skim-milk is unavailable. Sugarcane,
green crops of all sorts, the damaged
residues of such crops as maize, potatoes
and pumpkins, all help to fill a gap.
Molasses is a cheap source of carbo-
hydrates, and can often be balanced by
boiling down the calves that cannot be
reared in a dry season or the less profit-
able cows that every dairy herd carries.
Not the sort of stuff to feed fattening
pigs on, but a good emergency ration for
the sows and less-forward stores.
Legumes as Catch Crops.
“Salmon Gums”: Legumes increase
soil fertility by increasing the nitrogen
content —provided the roots are infected
with nitrogen-fixing bacteria. Any soil
on which leguminous crops are grown
continuously or repeatedly will eventu-
ally become infected, but the process is
slow and it pays to introduce the bac-
teria artificially. This may be done:
(a) By inoculating the new area with
soil from a field which has grown suc-
cessful crops—different legumes are
affected by different types of bacteria,
and it is essential that the type suitable to
the crop should be introduced—and on
the roots of which abundant nodules
have been found. About lcwt. of soil
broadcast evenly over one acre is suffi-
cient. The objection to this method is the
of introducing weeds and plant
diseases.
(b) By dipping the seeds in some sticky
substance such as skim milk and rolling
them in affected soil. Dry and sow as
soon as possible: avoid exposing seed
or soil to sunlight more than is necessary.
(c) By producing bacteria and inocu-
lating the seed or, if it is already sown,
the area under crop. This is by far the
most satisfactory method and is not
costly. The Agricultural Department in
each State will send instructions.
Leguminous crops add as much as
1501 b. of nitrogen to the acre, bring up
phosphorus and potassium from the sub-
soil and make them available, and help
in the control of scab in potatoes. Micro-
organisms found in decomposing green-
stuffs fight against the scab organisms.
Priming Citrus Trees.
“Cockyson”: Citrus-fruit growers will
be cleaning up their orchards during the
next couple of months. Heavy cutting-
back or thinning-out of a bearing tree
is injurious, sometimes affecting the tree’s
cropping for years. Mandarins, particu-
larly the Emperor, stand up badly to
heavy pruning (big branch).
Pruning should be confined to the
removal of dead and diseased wood, the
cutting-away of the main stem and
branch thorns, and the cutting-out of all
small inside branches which do not
reach to the outside of the tree. The
removal of a chafing limb is sometimes
necessary, but if the “rubbers” are well-
grown branches it is often wise to let
them rub.
Some growers like a tall main stem ;
but the writer’s experience is that it
often results in serious root trouble,
the exposed main roots near the base of
the tree being the ones affected. A tall
main stem, by letting in the sunlight, en-
courages the growth of harmful lichens
unless spraying is regularly attended to.
Two feet above ground is high enough
for the lower branches when cropless—
they shade the exposed surface roots and
prevent excessive moisture evaporation.
The limbs will require, propping up when
the crop nears maturity, but this won’t
entail much extra work if suitable props
are obtained.
On Night-horses.
“Star”: The daddy of ’em all at his
own job is the night-horse. I’ve never
seen a cattle drover so drunk that he’d
sell his best night-horse, though he’d
jump all the rest of his plant over the
bar.
Some fellows go to the. extreme of re-
fusing to saddle the. night-horse for any
other work. I don’t hold with such
flighty notions. I reckon good night-
horses know their own worth, are apt
to “give themselves lolly,” and if a
man plays up to ’em they get as un-
bearable as tenors.
A bit of ordinary work is good for any
night-horse, increasing his adaptability,
hardening him and generally improving
him. When working him, though, keep
in mind his main job in life —holding
cattle on camp at night.
One place a night-horse must not be
be worked is on a camp where they are
cutting out. To take cattle away from a
camp is directly opposite to his training
—his job is to return wanderers and not
to let anything go walkabout. If a horse
is worked on such jobs, it confuses him,
and a confused night-horse is not a night-
horse.
Wheat Rust.
“Stump-jump”: Although- dusting
wheatfields with sulphur is proving suc-
cessful in America, plant-breeding seems
to hold out the best hope for complete
rust control in Australia. Rust-resisting
varieties have been evolved by cross-
breeding wheats that showed resistance
to one or several of the known varieties
of rust. Successful rust-resisting varieties
are Ford, Nabawa, Bencubbin and
Baringa.
The eradication of the barberry-bush
is essential to control, if the present non-
resisting wheats continue in use. One
bush can infect wheat for miles around.
The grass around takes the rust from the
bush. Barley-grass when moist will con-
vey rust spores to a wheat crop in one
year. Other spores are blown direct
from the bush.
Black-rust is killed out with the bar-
berry-bush, but red-rust can exist indefi-
nitely. It is towards this type that
dusting with sulphur is directed. An
aeroplane with a rotary distributor is used,
flying a few feet over the crop. If rust-
resisting varieties fail, then there are
distinct possibilities for sulphur-dusting
in Australia.
Hints for the Farm.
“Silky-bag”: A half-crown pair of
hair-clippers will easily remove, the long
hairs around Strawberry’s teats at this
time of the year. The clipping will im-
prove her temper; those hairs pull dur-
ing milking.
“Sandy”: A handy way to get rid of
prunings. Mount a 40gal. drum in-
cinerator on a forked stick or runners to
be drawn by a horse, and burn the prun-
ings as you collect them. It saves cartage
and the valuable ash drops on to the soil.
“Sheepo”: F. J. Grogan, a grazier in
the Bowning district (N.S.W.), has sug-
gested to the Graziers’ Association a
method for getting rid of the blowfly.
Briefly, the scheme is to attack the flies
on their camps during the night or before
they leave in the mornings. Fly camps
could be easily located, and then attacked
with a flame-thrower, thereby destroying
both flies and eggs. Poison traps destroy
thousands of flies daily, but there are as
many more left. Grogan’s idea is worth
a trial.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department .)
Is it harmful to feed separated milk back to
cows ? —6168.
It is quite all right provided you are certain
the cows producing the milk are free from com-
municable diseases. If you are not certain, pas-
teurise the milk by raising it to a temperature
of 155 deg. F. and holding it at that temperature
for 20 minutes to destroy all harmful organ-
isms.


%
/
/
/
/
IT'S New ENERGY
AND WARMTH f ROM
WITHIN YOU
/
Overcoats —fires —are but super-
ficial aids to warmth. Tooheys
Oatmeal Stout builds rich red
blood to combat the chills of
winter.
To'ee
4 fi
/
V
/ /
f /
/ '
/
' / /
/
/ ,
/
i \
IT
X
7*
/ /
\
X
/ / /
A
/ /
/ /
/
/
/
\>, ■ -
■
/
m •
<1
;nrlr , : >,
9
m n
i \ \
mmmm.** W i
«x
as
«*!»
A.
m
i'smm&SM&w-
hUh
ixJb
m
m
mmmmmm
%
/
S
Hi
*%£•-•• J X
lx
X
5 5 *8 96*
Ml
Ml
fe*
II
f:
•••*:,. w, l
H
*
■fl
1
3
Sf
■
,7,XX
i
# : THE
t-
v
IX
* 11
it
'.'V ':-"
%
K?
M
t
i
1
f..m
mm
I
X
ggagjggg|jgg
?T3T
I
». /
■ :
•WSJ
X
»*• I
It®
STOUTT
&I
gg...
Sr
is
I * .
fXAU
’fat
THE SAME
PRICE AS
ORDINARY
STO U T
sdf
N THE STOUT
TP 1 £T
U I 1 Ll
sd
* js. * J
Wmmm
V ■ .
Agents;
VlCTORlA—Goldsbrough, Mort & Co., Ltd., Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND —Burns, Fhilp & Co., Ltd., Brisbane.
CENTRAL Q’LAND: Dalgety & Co., Ltd., Rockhampton.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA—DaIgety & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA—MiIne & Co., Perth.
TASMANIA—Ferguson & Co. Pty., Ltd., Hobart.
Northern Agencies Pty., Ltd., Launceston.


Short Stwy
c Writing
tyree Lance
I journalism
Learn and Earn The most thorough and practical
in Spare Time ! Course of Training ever written!
Instruction and Constructive Criticism by Practical
Journalists and Short Story Writers . • . You learn
how to Wiite and how to sell your stories and articles.
Full details sent on application to
I.C. S. School oS Journalism
140 Elizabeth Street, Sydney
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK V LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —Janies Love, Esq. (Chairman) ;W. H.. Hart, Esff. i J- Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Mm. A. Jolly, Esq. 0.M.0.
Generalj Manager— D. S\ FORBES
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne Sydney, and 97
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business^
OurServiceDepartment
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Pensioner, N.S.W., saddler, can do plain
cooking, used to station life, wants employment
anywhere. Refs. —6265.
Anzac (50), educated, qualified bookkeeper,
wants position, clerical, library, caretaker or
any job not manual labor. —6308.
Woolclasser open to engagement, classing
and experting. Will quote for contract shear-
ing.—6307.
Freelance journalist, articles and stories, topi-
calities, political notes, seeks part- or full-time
employment, city or country newspaper.—63so.
Hairdresser wants situation, or would rent
billiard-room and saloon anywhere. —6335.
To buy “Asia” for April, 1937; will pay
35.—6323.
Will give 100 different foreign stamps for 100
Australian twopennies, and good foreign stamps
for 3d., 6d., 9d. and Is. Australian, or will
buy.—6336.
Information Sought.
(1) What are the international cricket fixtures
for the next five years? (2) When and by whom
are these fixtures made? —6363.
(1) 1938, Australians in England; 1938-39,
England in S. Africa; 1939, West Indies in
England; 1939-40, England in India; 1930,
S. Africa in England; 1940-41, England in
Australia; 1942, Australians in England. (2)
The fixtures were drawn up at the Imperial
Cricket Conference in London, 1934, by two
representatives from England, Australia (Bull
and Bushby), S. Africa, West Indies, India and
M.
* * sf *
What were the innings totals in the last
series of Tests in Australia and the times in
making them? —6391.
First Second
First Test—- Innings. Innings.
Runs. Mins. Runs. Mins.
England 358 401 .. 256 391
Australia .... 234 348 .. 58 71
Second Test—
England .... 426* 489 ..
Australia .... 80 107 .. 324 390
Third Test —
England .... 76| 114 .. 323 278
Australia .... 200 f 283 .. 564 622
Fourth Test —
England .... 330 435 .. 243 294
Australia .... 228 335 .. 433 519
Fifth Test —-
England .... 239 324 .. 165 207
Australia .... 604 606 ..
* For six wickets (declared).
t For nine wickets (declared).
si: * s': *
What were the match results of the three
visits of the Springboks (South Africa) and All-
Blacks (M.L.) Rugby Union teams to Eng-
land?-- 6376.
Springboks—
-—Points —-
Played. Won. Lost. Drawn. For. Against.
1906-07 ..29 26 2 1 608 87
1912-13 ..27 24 3 441 101
3931-32 ..26 23 1 2 407 124
82 73 6 3 1456 312
All-Blacks —
1905-06 ..33 32 1 868 47
1924-25 ..30 30 721 112
1931-32 ..28 24 3 1 431 180
91 86 4 1 2020 339
si: * =!: *
Results of matches played by the 1919 A.I.F.
Rugby Union team (1) outside Australia, (2)
in Australia (full figures) ? —6355.
(1) Played 16, won 12, lost 4; points for 181,
against 77. (2) Played 8, all won. Victories
were: v. N.S.W. 42-14, v. Australia 28-18, v.
New England 38-7, v. Queensland 38-7, v.
Queensland A.I.F. 30-3, v. Australia 27-18, v.
North-west Union 56-3, v. Australia 22-6.
Points for 281, against 76.
sf * * *
Steering of my 1927 model wanders and
needs continual correction. King pins do not
appear to have very much wear, and the wheels
have been tracked with about \in. “toe-in” at
the front. The steering box has been adjusted,
with the result that no play is present in the
wheel. Axle is straight and wheel alignment
perfect. What can be done to improve steer-
ing ? —6291.
The king pins should be leaning back at the
top at an angle of about l|deg. To get this
correct a suitable wedge will have to be fitted
between the spring and the axle, with the thick
part of the wedge either at the front or at the
rear as may be found necessary to give the
king pins the correct setting. The correct “toe-
in” for your car is 3-16th inch. The “Jacox”
steering gear is fitted on the 1927 model. The
big nut on the top of the bolt should be
tightened down until the steering wheel is a
little stiff to turn when on each full lock.
This will take out the maximum amount of
play that is possible by adjustment. The re-
maining play with the wheel in dead centre
can be removed only by the renewal of parts
which are costly for this type of box. Spare
parts may be obtained from General Motors-
Holden’s, Ltd., Carrington-road, Marrickville,
N.
sf * sf $
(1) Has the Weymouth bridle and bit any
advantages over the Pelham? (2) Disadvan-
tages of either compared with ordinary
bradoon ? —6320.
(1) The Weymouth bit and bradoon (as it is
known to the trade) is a bit which controls the
horse readily, and is used by the police very
extensively. It is also used by polo players
when training their horses, and for good show
hacks. The two bits in the horse’s mouth
give the horse something to play with. The
only advantage it has oyer a Pelham bit is that
it gives greater control. (2) Colonel Melville,
when in Sydney with the Indian army polo team,
said that only one horse in a hundred would
go properly when ridden with a bradoon bit.
But no stockman would be likely to prefer the
Weymouth or Pelham bridle to a single-rein
bridle with the bradoon bit.
* * * *
Meaning of the following terms, as applied
to aeronautics: (1) Helicopter experimentation,
(2) gyroscopic action, (3) torque reactions? —
6309.
(1) Experiments conducted in connection with
a form of aircraft whose support in the air
is derived solely from the reaction of a stream
of air driven downwards by propellers revolving
around a vertical axis. (2) The action of a
gyroscope, which consists of a heavy wheel
mounted in such a way that it is free to rotate
about any axis. The wheel, when spun,
assumes a rigidity of direction of its axle and
plane of rotation relative to space, irrespective
of any movement of its support. Gyroscopic
action has to be considered in the construction
of an aeroplane where the engine wheel and
propeller are rotating rapidly. (3) The re-
action, or opposition, offered to the twisting
effect of the propeller shaft.
* * * *
Some details concerning the Canadian Navy?
—6325.
The Royal Canadian Navy was established
in 1910. The authorised complements are: 117
officers and 862 men of the Permanent Force
(Royal Canadian Navy); 70 officers and 430
men of the Royal Canadian Naval Reserve;
and 80 officers and 930 men of the Royal Can-
adian Naval Volunteer Reserve. The vessels
at present maintained in commission are the
destroyers Champlain and Saquenay, based on
Halifax, N.S.; the destroyers Vancouver and
Skeena and the minesweeper Armentieres,
based on Esquimalt, B.C. (Towards the end
of 1936 it was officially announced that the
Government had arranged to buy two British
destroyers to replace the Champlain and Van-
couver, which were due to be dismantled under
treaty provisions by the end of the year.)
H.M.C. Dockyards are at Halifax and Esqui-
malt. Naval depots are maintained at both
bases, and are used as training headquarters.
Appropriation for naval services for 1936-37
was $2,654,500.
*j* *i' V
Where does jarrah occur, what are some of
its characteristics and its uses? —6328.
Jarrah ( Eucalyptus marginata) grows in a belt
of forest, 20 miles wide, running parallel to
the coast of W.A. from the latitude of Perth
about 200 miles southward. This forest pro-
duces practically the only commercial species,
and is probably the most valuable hardwood
forest in Australia. The tree shows a uniform
development of approximately 100 ft. to 150 ft.
in height, and a diameter ranging from 3ft. to
sft. The timber is reddish-brown in color,
sometimes varying from a light red to a very
dark red when freshly cut. Subsequently it
develops a mahogany-like color. It sometimes
possesses a remarkable fiddle-back figure, and
is then known in the trade as “curly jarrah.”
It can be seasoned relatively easily, and, having
fire-resistant qualities, is used in shipbuilding.
Also for sleepers, piles, strainers and decking,
and pretty well all purposes in building.
;Js v -I* v
Particulars of life and career of writer Frank
Harris? —6211.
Born at Galway, Ireland, February 14, 1856,
and emigrated to the United States, where he
had an adventurous career. Later he went to
Europe and studied at several universities, and
in England edited in turn the “Evening News,”
“Fortnightly Review,” “Saturday Review”
and “Vanity Fair.” Later he conducted a
magazine of his own. His editorial qualifica-
tions were regarded as of a very high order,
but he got into difficulties in England, and later
in the U.S.A. He settled at Nice with his
second wife, and died there August 26, 1931.
He was childless. His Contemporary Por-
traits are the result of his meetings with famous
men of letters. There was strong feeling in
regard to his book dealing with Oscar Wilde,
and the story of his own life, under the title
My Life and Loves, could not find a pub-
lisher in England or the U.S.A., and was pub-
lished in Germany. Copies landed in New
York were seized, and in later editions por-
tions were omitted. Other publications in-
clude The Man Shakespeare, The Women of
Shakespeare, and plays, “Mr. and Mrs.
Daventry,” “Shakespeare and His Love” and
“Joan la Romee,” together with a number of
novels and short stories.
+ * * *
Origin of the tartan, with description of the
Stuart tartan ? Where obtainable ? —6200.
The tartan was originally the emblem of rank
or position, the colors and arrangement becom-
ing more varied in accordance with the wearer’s
social standing. Adoption of tartan of dif-
ferent patterns and setts dates fronv the twelfth
century, when clanship began to evolve. There
are several Stuart or Stewart tartans. That of
the Royal Stewart has green, blue and black,
with a fine white line, on red; the dress tartan
of the Royal Stewart has a white ground, with
lines of blue, red, black, green and a fine
yellow. The Stewarts of Galloway, with whom
the chieftainship of the clan rests at present,
vary the arrangement with one broad black
stripe, the Stewarts of Appin with four thin
green stripes. The Stewart of Athole sett is
green and black on red; that of Bute, green and
black, with a fine white line, on red. The
Stewart hunting sett has a green ground, with
lines of black, red and yellow. Rugs, scarves,
etc., in the Stewart tartan are obtainable from
Peapes and Co., 285 George-street, or Grace
Bros., Broadway, Sydney.
:f * if *
Some particulars of the life of Garibaldi.
Why is he regarded as a great Italian patriot ?
—5097.
Giuseppe Garibaldi, born at Nice in 1807,
when Italy was divided into a number of king-
doms and territories, early associated himself
with Mazzini’s movement for Italian liberty,
for which he spent some years in exile. In
1860, after declaration of war by Austria, he
organised his famous “Thousand Volunteers,”
stormed Sicily, and, later, with a greatly aug-
mented following, made himself master of
Naples, making possible the proclamation of
King Victor Emmanuel of Sardinia as King
of Italy in 1861. His repeated attempts to
take Rome were unsuccessful, and, defeated
by the combined French and Papal troops, he
retired to his island home of Caprera. In
1870 he gave his services to France against
Germany, and in the same year saw his dream
of a united Italy became a fact, rendered pos-
sible by the withdrawal of French troops from
Rome. He died 1882.
if * if if
Positions of the artesian basins of Australia ?
—6316.
The Great Australian Artesian Basin occu-
pies Queensland west of the Great Dividing
Range save for that part of n.-w. Queensland con-
tiguous to the Northern Territory, a consider-
able strip of N.S.W. along its northern border
and west of the Great Dividing Range, the
n.-e. of S.A. and the s.-e. of N.T. The fiucla
Basin extends along the shore of the Great
Australian Bight and occupies the s.-e. of W.A.
and the s.-w. of S.A. The Coastal Plain Basin
lies on the west of the Darling Ranges, W.A.,
the North-west Basin between the Ashburton
and Murchison rivers, the Gulf Basin between
Cambridge Gulf and Queen’s Channel, the
Desert Basin between the De Grey and Fitzroy
rivers, and the Murray Basin extends over the
s.-w. of N.S.W. and the n.-w. of Vic., bounded
on the west by Mount Lofty Ranges and on
the east and north-east by ranges of Vic. and
N.S.W.
* * * *
(1) Advantages of Diesel-engined , trucks ?
(2) Distributors of Diesel trucks in Q’land? —
6266.
(1) Cost of fuel is low, engine has no spark
plugs, and it pulls well on low gear. (2)
Thornycroft—Packer Bros, and Begrie, Ltd.,
Mary and Albert streets; Leyland—Mclntosh
Motors, Ltd., 309 Adelaide-street —both Bris-
bane.
* * * *
History of the causes that led up to the South
African war? —6221.
(1) After Cape Colony was ceded by the
Dutch to Britain (1815) the Boers withdrew in-
land in the Great Trek (1836) and formed the
Orange Free State, the Transvaal and Natal. On
the annexation of Natal by the British, the Boers
there withdrew to the Transvaal. Diamond dis-
coveries led to British annexation of the sur-
rounding land and, finally, of the Transvaal
itself, these measures being partly necessitated
by the Zulu menace. The Boers demanded
independence, and resorted to war (the first
Boer War, 1880). Gladstone stopped the war and
returned the Transvaal to the Boers. When in
1886 British gold-seekers poured into the Rand
they were subjected to disabilities which caused
serious friction, the situation being aggravated
(as doubtless was intended) by the raid of Dr.
Jameson into Boer territory (1896). The two
Boer Republics armed, and issued a joint ulti-
matum to Britain; negotiations failed, and war
broke out in 1899.
* * * *
Is microphotograph the correct term for a
photograph taken through a microscope ?-— 6294.
No, a photomicrograph is the correct expres-
sion—the direct opposite of a microphotograph,
which is a considerably reduced photograph
taken with a special lens.
if. * * *
Biographical details of Mrs. Pankhurst, cham-
pion of votes for women ? —6322.
Born 1858 in Manchester, the daughter of
Robert Goulden, she married Dr. Pankhurst, a
barrister, and with him helped to found the
Women’s Franchise League (1889). She was a
poor-law guardian and member of the school
board, Manchester, and on her husband’s death
in 1898 was appointed registrar of births, a post
she held until 1900. In 1903 she founded the
Women’s Social and Political Union. When
militant methods began Mrs. Pankhurst was
several times imprisoned. In 1914 she published
My Own Story. She died June 14, 1928.
* * * *
Why are barbers’ poles painted red and white
in spiral pattern ? —6296.
One authority has it that in the time of
Edward IV. barbers were the only persons who
practised surgery, and the pole is a relic of
those days, the spiral stripe representing ban-
daging.
What are some of the principal items of J.
Pierpont Morgan’s collection and their cost ?
6300. ,
The late Lord Anglesey’s rock-crystal ewer,
4000 guineas at auction in London; Raphael
Madonna of St. Anthony of Padua, £100,000;
four tapestries after Boucher, 2,000,000 francs;
ten decorative panels painted by Fragonard for
Madame Dubarry, £100,000; Gainsborough’s
“Stolen Duchess,” £30,000; Pfungst collection
of antique bronzes, £15,000; Gavet collection
of Rembrandt etchings, £15,000; Mannheim col-
lection, £90,000; Evangelia Quator, £10,000;
a 5000-guinea copy of the Psalmorum Codex.
Brief Answers.
M.M.: (1) Incorporated Society of Authors,
Composers and Playwrights, 11 Gower-street,
London, W.C.I. (2) Yes K.S.: The
coin is a silver half-crown (English) of George
111. (1760-1820). It is a specimen of the
great recoinage which took place in 1817. By law
it ranks as present-day currency. If in absolutely
mint condition its collector value would be 3s.
6d., otherwise face value only E.A.J.: Brit-
tain, Briton, Britten and similar-sounding names
are all derivatives of Breton, in its original
form Le Breton, a native of Brittany, France.
Many immigrants from Brittany, their names
variously spelt, are listed in the Hundred Rolls
of 1273. It is possible that in rare instances
the name may have had its origin in an earlier
source; Britain, the ancient name for England,
has had various derivations ascribed to it, in-
cluding Pryddan, fair and beautiful isle,
Bridoine, meaning a race who bore themselves
with dignity, and Brydon or Prydyn, signifying
brave men E.F.D.: Bow Bells are the bells
of Bow Church (St. Mary-le-Bow), Cheapside,
London, to be born within sound of which has
for several centuries constituted the definition
of a Cockney. The “bows” are the stone arches
on which the eleventh-century church was built.
The present edifice was rebuilt by Wren after
the Great Fire, but portions of the original
structure remain A.M.: Lord Leverhulme,
who died May 7, 1925, left an estate of
approximately £1,000,000 W.T.S.: Under the
Commonwealth Patents Act provisional protec-
tion of an invention for a period of nine months
is obtainable. If this is obtained the idea can
be publicly demonstrated before the authorities
concerned. Consult a patent attorney
J.W.C.: Winodee is not listed among aboriginal
names. Nearest are Winnighee, meaning “to
hear”; Wingadee, “place of fire”; and Winani,
“hollow tree”... .L.F.: The Australian Museum
has a collection of seaweeds in the National
Herbarium, and is always anxious to add to it.
Owing to restricted finance it is unable to pur-
chase collections, and relies on donations
L. : Refer to Pacific Islands Year-Book, avail-
able from leading booksellers... .C.G.: Fred
Harris, 210 Sussex-street, Sydney, will give esti-
mates by post on submission of design
W.L.: No record W.W.: Assuming all to
be in order approximate cost would be be-
tween six and seven guineas... .R.N.8.5.: (1)
Rules of etiquette declare it incorrect to wear
a white tie with a white mess-jacket on any
occasion; black tie is imperative. The white
tie is reserved for formal dress, which the mess-
jacket is not. (2) Both black cummerbund
and white vest constitute correct tropical dress;
cummerbund is preferable... .G.D.S.: No,
your king is in check and your opponent is
quite correct.. . .R.H.: The present extended
N. S. Wales Moratorium Act will expire on
Feb. 28, 1938. In your case the mortgagor
will continue to be protected by it until the
due date in March of that year, after which,
in the absence of further legislation, you may
take possession... .P.L.8.: Headmasters of
Sydney Grammar School: 1857-67, W. J.
Stephens, M.A.; 1867-1912, A. B. Weigall,
M. C.M.G.; 1912-1920, H. N. P. Sloman,
M.A., M.C. (much absent on war service—now
headmaster Tonbridge School, England); 1920-
23, A. H. S. Lucas, M.A., B.Sc. (died last
year); 1923 to date, H. S. Dettman, M.A.,
B.C.L E. 8.: The Master in Lunacy is en-
titled to appropriate a sufficient sum out of
the estate for the person’s maintenance. The
balance may go to dependants, as the Master
sees fit. The property of the insane person
at death, and after any outstanding expenses of
maintenance have been met, would, in the
absence of a will made when he was of sound
disposing mind, be distributed, as in the case
of an ordinary intestacy G.A.M.: Submit
to J. Albert and Son, 139 King-street, Sydney.
.... J.W.C.: (1) 123.7 miles. (2) Five miles.
(3) 20.6 miles... .G.L.H.: There is a conduc-
tors’ class at the Sydney Con., but it is limited
to advanced diploma students. There are a
number of books on the subject, but Lives of
the Great Conductors would be most useful.
Call on the Registrar of the Con. to discuss the
matter A. 8.: There are both day and even-
ing classes at East Sydney Tech. Coll. Those
wishing to join the day course are required
to pass an entrance qualifying test. An attend-
ance of five full days per week is required.
R. Carswell, head teacher of art, will supply
further particulars if interviewed. Prospectus
posted... .F.8.F.: Registered displacement of
ferry steamer Dee Why is 354 tons W.S.M.:
Write to the publishers of the print, who can
give you all the information you ask for
J.A.R.: N. S. Wales Moratorium Act came into
force Oct. 1, 1931. You are entitled to a re-
duction of interest to 5 p.c., assuming that the
balance is by way of mortgage H.J.W.H.:
There is no gift duty in N. S. Wales, but gifts
such as you refer to if made within the three
years preceding the death of the donor are sub-
ject to probate duty G.W.E.G.: (1) Optical
glass is not made in Australia. (2) Try a retail
manufacturer in Hobart... .J.M.: Make appli-
cation for treatment at the Dental Hospital of
Sydney M.E.: Write for particulars to any
of the following boys’ schools: Mowbray
House, Mowbray-road, Chatswood; Malvern
School, Hunter’s Hill; Barker College, Hornsby;
Cranbrook School, Edgecliff; Knox Grammar
School. Wahroonga, and Scots College, Vic-
toria-road, Bellevue Hill (both Presbyterian);
Milton Grammar School, Killara (Congrega-
tional); Newington College, Stanmore (Metho-
dist); Sydney Church of England Grammar
School, North Sydney; Sydney Grammar
School, College-street; Trinity Grammar
School, Strathfield; St. Leonard’s Grammar
School, North Sydney, or Blue Mountains
Grammar School, Glenbrook (at the last-
named, it is stated, special attention is given
to small boys) N.E.A.: The statuettes or
busts need to be produced first in the studio,
the artist working either from life or from
photographs; afterwards they are cast in
quantities by the manufacturers. Write Loma
Lautour, 80 Hunter-street, Sydney, for particu-
lars and approximate cost.... H.L.: Lay coat
on a table and sponge with hot, soapy water
containing a little ammonia, then wipe dry.
Sponge freely with methylated spirit and wipe
dry quickly; then sprinkle with powdered chalk
or ordinary talcum powder, rub over with a dry
cloth, and keep in a dry place (Many mailed.)


Hi ■
i
$C<
- / ■
m
?■
mm
: "
ISI
cl
“Vat 69” has the merit of maturity. It has the
unvarying character of a true Scotch Whisky.
For “Vat 69” is matured and blended by William
Sanderson & Son Ltd., Leith, Scotland famous
distillers since 1863.
“Vat 69” in Dump Bottles, Half Bottles and
Flasks.
VS . 57
Distributors: John Woods and Co., Ltd., 388 Sussex Street, Sydney.
Sub Agents: Pitt, Son & Badgery, Ltd., 4 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Q’land Distributors: Australian Estates Co., Ltd., Creek St., Brisbane.
Australia’s Leading Financial Journal .
JULY ISSUE NOW ON SALE.
INVESTORS AND THE STOCK EXCHANGE
GOLD QUESTION
BASIC WAGE
STOCKS WORTH WATCHING
PRICE 2f- PER COPY, OR £l/2/6 PER ANNUM POSTED.
Published b.v The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., 252 George Street, Sydney, and all States.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
H.M.C.: Too tame W.W.W.: No meat in
it. Anyway it was hunting and not the turf
that was first scheduled as the “Sport of
Kings” J.L.: We have seldom read more
ragged jingle... .Anon: Can’t make head or
tail of “Rat Week” M.M.: What makes
you think the average washerwoman is sweated
and starved? ... .F.T.M.: A bit strained....
H.M.W.: Lacks punch... .E.R.: Try it on a
tobacconist... .P.J.1.: Not much of a picture,
even if we knew what is a “robust yammer”
or a “carroo” Z.V.W.: Sadly commonplace.
M.L.: Very little promise as yet. Cannot send
criticisms by post... .D.8.0’C.: Such lines as
He has passed the final crisis
From the wheezing- gasps of phthisis
would settle any obituary poem... .J.M.McL.:
Something in it, but hardly enough... .H.C.8.:
In the W. T. Goodge vein, but a very long
way after Goodge... .R.C.G.: No enthusiasm
for characters “with the eyes and minds of
sharks”... .G.F.: Nothing worth recording in
“Our Jackeroo”... .S.D.McK.: Still misses;
try it elsewhere F.A.: Down-and-out steals
an overcoat, finds £5O in the pocket, spruces
up and returns home to find his father has
taken poison because he owned the coat and
it contained all his wealth. N 0!... .L.C.S.:
Not up. ...C.E.D.: Nothing there.... L.T.:
Did “read on to the bitter end,” but it wasn't
worth the trouble E.R.S.: No use for either
the yarn or the pun... .R.A.M.: Can’t bury
the body here.... R.J.A.: Afraid we can’t
give that “divinely fair daughter of the gods,
young as the first crisp lily is young,” a worthy
setting... .L.M.: No interest in the drunk riding 1
on a London bus... .A.S.R.: We resisted “The
insidious lure of the phantom peace that
poppies give”... .D.G.U.: Weak... .R.J.S.:
That one not up; but keep trying J.W.:
Too much space to give to Carbine’s Cup.
ber R.W.: That one just misses E.W.:
Try it on a magazine... .H.H.: Dull.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
F. 8.: The horses seem to have escaped from
a merry-go-round... .E.W.T.: Wheezes infirm
and old; sketches callow and unbeautiful....
P.T.: Head studies and He-She gags that could
be tagged to innumerable drawings are not
required... .S.C.: Not only the jinker is
bogged; the artist is in similar plight....
A.N.: Put more freehand drawing into your
work; you rely too much on the rule and com-
pass T.H.: Your axeman looks too frail to
split a safety match... .G. 8.8.: This week’s
stalest gag... .C.L.C.: A “plurry” or two and
a request for a bottle of rum don’t make an
abo. joke... .W.N.: Some schoolchildren could
show you points... .F.M.: Too like a gag
recently illustrated in The Bulletin J. 1.:
Have you been using snowmen for your models?
A.B.D.: Aviator made a forced landing
into the basket... .0.L.: A bit late for a
Coronation cartoon... .E.V.: As flat as most
“Yellow Peril” stuff... .H.J.W.: Yes, gags
must be original, and drawings about 10 times
better than yours... .P.D.: Picture of dreary
landscape with labelled rainbow in the back-
ground firmly rejected A.H.S. and C.N.:
Received your joint effort —whoever drew the
cow is the better craftsman H.D.: Needs
more attention to anatomical details A.C.:
No improvement on the last batch... .J.S.:
It is a poor year that doesn’t bring in at least
half a dozen illustrations of the Dad-and-the-
hotel-toothbrush gag... .MJ.K.: That artistic
corpse should have been sent to a funeral
parlor W.P.: Shows some promise, but
humor feeble G.J.: What is the crowd
gazing at —smoke signals, waterspouts or float-
ing telegraph poles? R.J.: Presume that the
chap in spats is Bruce and the fellow with a
“mo” is Casey, but who is the gent, in the
You might unload it on a daily about Novem-top-hat trying to swallow a walking stick.
CHARLES ROSENTHAL.
Wherever Diggers meet together there
will be favorable comment on former
A.I.F. Major-General Charles Rosen-
thal’s having been given the Admin-
istrator’s job at Norfolk Island. Personal
recollections of him go back to a red-
letter day at the small brick school at
Cudgen (N.S.W.) where “Rosie’s” father
taught a motley lot of white, Kanaka
and half-caste ragamuffins early in the
century. Present writer was serving a
sentence up on a form for the heinous
offence of pelting limmy Rosenthal —the
old couple’s lanky bay buggy horse —
with specimens of that wherewith Jimmy
improved the playground. From this
term came unexpected release, with news
of the arrival of “Old Rosie’s” soldier
son Charles on a visit from Sydney.
Up went “Old Rosie” 100 p.c. in the
general estimation. Some of us had
recollections of big brothers coming back
from the Boer War, and soldiering
seemed glamorous then. Sydney, too,
was remote and wondrous from that
sugarcane plateau; so in all ways
Charles was a gallant figure to fire the
young imagination. That “Old Rosie”
owned him as his son gave “Old Rosie”
a place in our esteem hitherto reserved
"ROSIE.”
for such worthies as that Kanaka who
could swim out to sea to Cook’s Island
and back, and who was subsequently
“found dead with nothing in his inside
but grape-skins and alcohol.” In such
high company “Old Rosie” held place
with us ever after. His foibles —among
them, hiding his formidable collection of
canes when the inspector was due —were
excusable thenceforth, and, in fact, we
would have helped him hide them, or, on
discovery, perjured ourselves to protect
him.
A Dane—contrary to fairly general
acceptance, the Rosie blood is Danish,
not Jewish —the old man had an accent
in his English ; but it was in teaching
history that the Dane in him came full
out. Old pupils of his have not that
patriotic regard for Nelson that others
have. It was at the Battle of Copenhagen
that Nelson proved himself utterly un-
fitted for high command. Instead of the
telescope to the wrong eye having had
anything admirable or heroic about it, it
was one of the most reprehensible acts
in English history (a strong implication
here that there were others!). Nelson
deliberately disobeyed his commanding
officer’s orders: rather than acclaimed a
national hero, he should have been pun-
ished and disgraced. That teaching, if
he had it from “Old Rosie” —as no
doubt he did —may have helped Charles
to be himself so good a soldier.
As he appeared at that time Charles
certainly looked every inch the part. To
3ft. nothing he would seem taller than
he is—he is actually on the stocky side —
and (this would be his shoulders) he
seemed tremendously massive and power-
ful. And, in his prime, very powerful he
was. Aboard the Rangatira, taking him
and his 3rd Brigade Artillery to Egypt in
1914, there was nobody who could hold
him at single-man tug-o’-war. Only one,
a saddler of enormous strength (and
breasts like a woman’s), could even give
him a go for it, though half the members
of one Ammunition Column mess alone
had gone straight into the Army from
wharf-lumping in Brisbane.
“Rosie” controlled that raw lot of troops
well, and the few who survived what fol-
lowed must think of it as a happy ship.
But there was an occasion soon after
when one of them thought back to “Old
Rosie” in that gentle old gentleman’s
most belligerent mood and of the day
news of the soldier’s arrival had brought
’ general reprieve to malefactors. On
guard over two tent-mates doing road
maintenance in penance for a night’s
French leave in Cairo, this ex-pupil of
“Old Rosie” readily agreed to a sugges-
tion that they should be marched to the
latrines for a smoke. There, smoking
with them, he was caught by the tallest
officer in the brigade, this worthy poking
a hooked beak over the hessian wall and
bawling “Fall in, you men!” As the
chastened cavalcade of three—oldest of
the party, 19 —trudged back over the sand
to the guard tent, the arresting officer
strode briskly over to where “Rosie” at
that moment appeared in full regimentals
in front of his H.Q. marquee. There was
a click of heels and salute, a few words’
pow-wow, then across the desert sands
came “Rosie’s” ukase in a voice to shake
the Great Pyramid above Mena, “Close
arrest, that man!”
Perhaps that original arresting officer
suffered a defective memory, or he may
have been qualifying well in advance to
be in time a reporter of Spanish war
“news.” At any rate, the charge pre-
sented to the then Captain White, of
South Australia, at the trial was “allow-
ing the prisoners to converse with the
Arabs” and, either as part of the charge
or as evidence, “allowing them to buy
oranges.” Capt. White accepted this stag-
gering charge—indeed, he had no option
with the flabbergasted denials of a flus-
tered 18-year-old boy. Seven days in
clink, with work on the roads. But
again reprieve through the arrival of a
visitor ; not a dashing young soldier from
Sydney, but a very old campaigner, one
who reputedly hails from up about the
part of the world “Old Rosie” himself
originally came from and with the bene-
volence and other characteristics of “Old
Rosie” —Father Christmas, 1914 vintage,
and amnesty for all of us wicked lags in
the A.l.F.’s military clinks.
There was Gallip. after that and sight
of “Rosie” dodging about up where a gun
of the 7th Battery poked its nose over
the front-line trench —the only field gun,
perhaps, that did so in the war. There,
and later at Pozieres and Passchendaele,
“Rosie” was pursuing his own practice—
rare among brass-hats—of looking into
the job his guns were doing at first hand.
If there was one quality the Diggers ad-
mired it was pluck, and “Rosie” has
always had heaps of it. No “head” of
the A.I.F. was better liked—outside his
own artillery, as well as in it. Such
handles as the cognomen “Bull” —freely
bestowed, with sometimes doubtful signi-
ficance, on others —were never for him.
He has always been “Rosie,” with respect.
CHANGED HER SHOES
FIVE TIMES A DAY
Suffered Agony with
Rheumatism for 20 Years
Try and picture the life this woman led for
twenty years—changing her shoes several times
a day in a vain endeavour to attain some relief
from the rheumatic pains that were constantly
torturing her. Then imagine her joy when she
found that Kruschen was driving away the
rheumatism. This is what she writes:
“I have been using Kruschen Salts for four
years. For twenty years previously I had suf-
fered agony with my feet, sometimes changing
my shoes five times a day, and frequently
sitting without any as the pain was so great.
Now I can wear the same pair of shoes all day
with comfort. I cannot speak too highly of
Kruschen Salts. Only those who had been in
constant pain with their feet for years can
realise what it is to be free.”—(Mrs.) E.A.
It is the needle-pointed crystals of uric acid
lodging between the joints which are respon-
sible for the agony of rheumatism. Kruschen
Salts dissolve these torturing crystals and
promptly expel them from the system.


Embassy
FOOTWEAR
for Gentlemen
fsd
FAULTLESS IN STYLE,
FLAWLESS IN CONSTRUCTION.
Smartly dressed men unfailingly choose Embassy
Footwear. Their sound judgment is an indica-
tion of the true worth of these fine shoes, which
add that essential touch of elegance and
individuality.
Wear the new Embassy—Medium-pointed Toe.
Prices from 23/6.
PIKE
DROTWLRS • LIMITED
(pre-war strength)
THE PERFECT
WHISKY .....
Over seventy years' ex-
perience has produced this
exceptional whisky. Bottled
under strict Government
supervision, at pre-war
strength, it is unique in
flavour and unvarying in
quality.
Canadian Club is on sale
throughout the World, at
the same price as standard
Scotch brands.
Write for a free attractive
Cocktail Recipe Book, to
the Agents.
fee?
few,
By Appointment
Agents: John Woods & Co. Ltd., 388 Sussex St., Sydney
Distilled by Hiram Walker & Sons Ltd., Walkerville, Ontario,
Canada. Since 1858.
THE MEN OF 1882
This is the first of a series of articles on Old Cricketers.
Just on 55 years ago a team of Aus-
tralian cricketers, captained by William
Lloyd Murdoch, lowered the colors of
All England for the first time. They were
nearly all home-grown young fellows,
born in the great gold-rush period (Mur-
doch was a Bendigo boy), and in what
the Encyclopcedia Britannica, in a chapter
on Test-match cricket, describes as “still
the most famous of these games,” they
owed nothing to chance.
And the eleven they overcame, headed
by W. G. Grace at the height of his
powers, was perhaps the finest that Eng-
land ever put in the field. It was so
strong in all departments, and its mem-
bers, without exception, had proved them-
selves so thoroughly in previous matches
against the Australians, that the English
sporting press unanimously awarded it
the victory in advance. It was generally
admitted that Spofforth was the greatest
bowler of the day, but one writer was
positive that the Demon’s powers were
waning: a fast bowler who employed his
“furious methods” couldn’t last long. It
is to be hoped that the critic lived long
enough to note that Spoff.—who “mar-
ried money” and settled in England,
where he died 11 years ago —headed the
English averages when in the forties.
The Australians had begun by putting
Oxford through in dashing style. In that
match H. H. Massie, playing his first
innings on an English wicket, had made
206 (out of 265) in 169 minutes. Sammy
Jones was reckoned a free batsman, but
while Jones was scoring 5 Massie scored
100. His second century took him only
59 minutes. The youth from Sydney gave
only one chance, a difficult one in the
slips.
But Cambridge avenged the defeat of
the sister University, thanks largely to
three of the brothers Studd, known as
“the Shirt Front.” In the University’s
first innings C. T. Studd got 118, includ-
ing 14 hits to the boundary, and G. B.
Studd 42; in the second innings the
Studds contributed 131 out of 165 —
J.E.K. 66, G.B. 48 and C.T. 17 n.o. No
one else on either side did much with the
bat, and the Australians lost by six
wickets. And Sir Henry Parkes was
looking on!
Worse was to come. In a match at
the Oval a very strong eleven of Players
H. H. MASSIE.
Who made top score in the immortal
1882 match. A banker —he was g.m. of
the Commercial of Sydney — Mr. Massie
is now living in retirement at Point Piper,
Sydney.
(Barnes, Bates, Emmett, Flowers, Lock-
wood, Morley, Peate, Shrewsbury, Ulyett,
Walter Read and Sherwin) fairly routed
the visitors. Spofforth was unable to
play, and the Players, mastering the weak-
ened bowling, were not dismissed until
they had made 322. The Australians
replied with 150, and, going in again, were
dismissed for 138. Morley did much of
the damage—4 for 39 in the first innings,
3 for 31 in the second.
A third defeat was inflicted on the
Australians by a so-called United Eleven,
composed of University players, past and
present. The Uniteds scored 196 and
151; the Australians, 141 and 187.
And there had been a row at Notting-
ham, which was to be associated with a
much greater row half a century later.
Arriving to play the county club, the
Aussies found that it had been taken for
granted that they would bring their own
lunch and have it on the ground with
the pros., who recruited their flagging
powers with bread and cheese and beer.
The manager, Beal, remonstrated with
the club secretary, Captain Holden, who
maintained that provision of lunch was
no part of the arrangement. He proved
to be a very voluble retired warrior, but
10 minutes’ exposition of the argument
that it was honor enough for the Aus-
tralians to play at Trent Bridge and that
they couldn’t expect to be fed there left
him out of breath.
When he recovered, he said “Say no
more about it —I will positively heah no
more.” Beal mildly replied, “But you
have had all the say yourself.” The cap-
tain ignored him and produced a cigar:
“Will some Englishman give me a light?”
he said.
George Bonnor overheard this and ex-
ploded. “I am as much an Englishman
as you are!” roared the giant—“you or
any gentleman present. I can trace my
family back for six generations, and per-
haps you can’t do more.”
Rain interrupted that Nottingham
match, and it was drawn. The county
club committee, apologised, and to show
they harbored no ill-feeling the Aus-
tralians played a return match for the
benefit of Oscroft, a professional who
had visited Australia with W. G. Grace
in 1873. This time they won by 159
runs, dismissing Notts in the latter’s
second innings for a mere 48.
Meanwhile, Murdoch’s men had de-
feated some of the counties and gained a
resounding victory over the Gentlemen:
Australia, 334 ; the Gentlemen, 182 and
157. George Giffen, then only 23, dis-
tinguished himself in that match, taking
8 wickets for 47 in the amateurs’ first
innings, and 3 for 60 in the second; and
so did Bonnor (74), who knocked the
English bowling all over the field, hit-
ting three mighty sixes. Among those
present was Ruskin, who couldn’t take
his eyes off Bonnor. That 6ft. of
magnificent Australian manhood must
have made an abiding impression on him,
for the author of Sesame and Lilies
wrote: “I thank God that England has
colonies capable of producing such
splendid young giants as Bonnor, who
looked as amiable as he was grand.”
T. W. GARRETT,
Another survivor of the great 1882
eleven. Mr. Garrett was for many years
N.S.W. Public Trustee. He is still prac-
tising as a solicitor in Sydney.
Bonnor had admirers wherever he went,
particularly when he turned on the fire-
works. This he did with gratifying fre-
quency. Against Cambridge, Past and
Present, he knocked the stuffing out of
C. T. Studd’s bowling, smiting three balls
clean over the heads of the spectators.
There were four sixes and six fours in
his score of 66, made in 35 minutes.
Those were the days of four-ball overs
and Bonnor considered an over lost if


Xij >■
'V
S.L ’X Ji
\fAh
%.■
i]/ “3?
r
/I
MfS
%
u
ff)
-as
*Sil«J
ft,'/
s»e
&'&?.>£■
\ , t „
w"'W;
M"¥ m
wv-
>wa»
ivW •
. ,'/■'*■ wen
TO
1872
BUNDABERG
1937
IN/T> ■*“'
MtW JQI/TM MALI}
FI
35ft
The original premises of the Bank of New South Wales
at Bundaberg were opened sixty five years ago when
most of the surrounding country was in a virgin state.
The Bank, by providing banking facilities and financial
assistance to the early settlers, contributed largely to
the development of the district.
Bundaberg is now the centre of a thriving area carrying
a population of 50,000 people, whilst the Bundaberg
Branch is a unit in the network of over 800 branches
of the Bank serving the people of Australia, New
Zealand and the Pacific Islands.
fsd
273F. 1937
If any illustration m "THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
he didn’t score off every ball. At Scar-
borough against I. Zingari he banged 20
off one over, two sixes and two fours.
Against Yorkshire, on the Bramall-lane
ground at Sheffield, he drove two balls
for sixes and, to the huge delight of the
Yorkshiremen, hit another.
Considering that the organisation of
sport was only beginning, the Australians
drew splendid crowds. At Bramall-lane
that day 20,000 surged into the ground,
paying sixpence a head. It was a jovial
match, chaff being plentifully given and
taken. Some of the Australians acknow-
ledged with courtly waves of the hand
nicknames bestowed on them by the
Sheffielders on previous tours, and sobri-
quets were soon invented for the new
men. Bonnor was “Joombo,” Banner-
man “Little Joombo”; Palmer was
“Ribs,” Horan “Features,” Blackham
“Darkie,” Spofforth “Spider,” Murdoch
“Eaglewings,” McDonnell'“Legs,” Garrett
“Shoofly” and Massie “The Deer.”
Here and there the travellers were
called upon to do a bit of emigration-
agency work at public meetings. Some
of their questioners were astonished to
learn that Melbourne, Sydney and Adel-
aide were populated altogether by whites.
In truth their record when they reached
London for their one match against All
England was very good, but not exactly
great, and the strongest possible English
XI had been picked: W. G. Grace, A. G.
Steel (still regarded by some old Eng-
lishmen as the greatest of all-rounders),
C. T. Studd, Alfred Lyttleton, Hornby,
F. R. SPOFFORTH,
Drawn by Phil May on the occasion of
his marriage. Spofforth, born at Bal-
main, Sydney, died in England at 70.
He is still regarded as the greatest of all
bowlers.
Barlow, Maurice Read, Lucas, Barnes
Ulyett and Peate. Hornby and Barlow
were the Lancashire pair. Most of them
are forgotten nowadays, but Hornby and
Barlow live in the verses of a poet who
spent his boyhood in Lancashire —verses
scarcely equal to
Not where the wheeling systems darken
And our benumbed conceiving soars;
The drift of pinions, would we hearken,
Beats at our clay-shuttered doors.
But still very good:
It is seldom I repair to the matches of the
Southron folk,
Though my own red roses there may blow;
It is little I repair to the matches of the
Southron folk,
Though the red roses crest the caps I know.
For the field is full of shades as I near the
shadowy coast,
And a ghostly batsman plays to the bowling of
a ghost,
And I look through my tears on a soundless
clapping host,
As the run-stealers flicker to and fro,
To and fro;
O my Hornby and my Barlow long ago!
The Australians were Murdoch, Banner-
man, Horan, Giffen, Massie, Bonnor,
Jones, Garrett, Boyle, Spofforth and
Blackham.
The prices of admission are interest-
ing: Ground, Is.; uncovered reserve,
10s.; covered reserve, £l.
That game at the Oval Las been de-
scribed a hundred times, and there is no -
thing to be gained by going over ground
so well worked. But the scores should
be set down: Australia, 63 (Blackham
17, Murdoch 13, Garrett 10; Barlow 5
for 19, Peate 4 for 31) and 122 (Massie
55, Murdoch 29, Bannerman 13 ; Peate
4 for 40). England 101 (Steel n.o. 27,
Ulyett 26, Barlow 11 ; Spofforth 7 for
46, Boyle 2 for 24, Garrett 1 for 22) and
77 (Grace 32, Lyttleton 12, Ulyett 11 ;
Spofforth 7 for 44, Boyle 3 for 19).
The Australians gained no advantage
by winning the toss and batting first.
They could do nothing else, for, if they
put the Englishmen in, rain might come
before their own second innings (as it did
in the event); but they had misgivings
about the wicket which were amply borne
out. It was never first-class, having been
prepared in a primitive style, but it prob-
ably rolled out better for the fourth
knock than for the first.
It was Spofforth’s magnificent bowling
that turned the trick for the Australians.
None, of the Englishmen could do much
with him. He bowled Grace with a
yorker and dismissed Hornby and Bar-
low with successive balls. He was so
thoroughly on top of the batsmen that
for a time they made no attempt to score
off him: he sent down 12 maidens in
succession. But singles and byes and
an occasional two brought the score to
6 for 73; only 12 runs required and
Steel, Read and Studd among the un-
conquered batsmen.
A member in the covered reserve, laid
60 to 1 on England. Twenty-five minutes
later he was writing a cheque for £6l,
for Steel, Read, Barnes and Peate were
out, and Studd had not scored.
Tommy Horan, the historian (and
trencherman) of the Australian party,
was in the outfield when the dismal pro-
cession came and went. He had cause
to doubt whether one batsman would
reach the wicket without assistance:
“when Barnes passed me,” he wrote long
afterwards, “his face was ashen-grey.”
The closing chapter was so thrilling that
the crowd was hushed into silence. One
man dropned dead.
“Well done, Cornstalks, whipt us Fair
and square! Was it luck that tript us?
Was it scare? Kangarooland’s Demon
or our own Want of courage, spirit,
nerve, backbone?” So wrote a “Punch”
rhymer, and the general run of news-
papers was equally generous. But there
were exceptions.
In a singularly ill-timed disquisition the
“World” discovered that Australians had
“not yet learned from the Old Country
one of the cricketer’s most valuable
lessons —how to lose a match well. That
most heinous of all crimes, disputing the
umpire’s decision, seems to be a regular
law of their cricket code.” “Vanity Fair,”
while, allowing that Spofforth was “the
best bowler ever seen,” found it “a pity
that he should give anyone the notion
that he does not always rely on the fair
expedients of his art.
“When Maurice Read faced the Aus-
tralian, the first ball caught him right
in the midriff and made him double up
for a few seconds. The next came in at
a terrific pace and hit the youngster on
the kneecap. The third got up badly and
gave Read a stinging blow on the elbow.
I saw the lad’s knees tremble a little when
he got ready to receive the fourth ball,
and well he might be nervous. When we
remember that Spofforth generally breaks
a ball from the off, it seems strange that
Read should have been hit in such
places.”
At that stage the writer must have de-
cided to be fair —or as fair as he could
reasonably be expected to be in the dis-
tressing circumstances. “Personally, I be-
lieve the affair was accidental, but when
people remember that Read lately made
130 against the colonists, they make re-
marks which generous Englishmen depre-
cate.”
Australian sympathisers countered
these attacks with a reference to a bit
of sharp practice, of which Jones was
the victim. It was described in these
terms: “Sammy Jones found a hole in
the turf about as large as a fly’s eye.
Feeling that Alec Bannerman might fall
in and get lost, he stepped outside his
ground while the fieldsmen were lolling
about. Grace picked up the ball, re-
moved the bails and looked meaningly
at the umpire. The latter said ‘Of
course, sir, if you ask me, I must give
him out.’ Grace asked, and out the Aus-
tralian went. On the previous day
Hornby had given Spofforth a similar
opportunity. ‘Don’t you realise, Hornby,’
said the Demon, ‘that if I liked I could
put you out?’ ‘So you could,’ replied
the Lancashire captain, ‘if you were play-
ing that sort of game; but are you?”’
Spofforth wasn’t.
The controversy soon died down ; and
the Australians played their remaining
matches in a carefree spirit. They
reached Australia a happy band of
brothers, and all fit except Palmer, who
had suffered a strain that kept him out
of many matches, and mostly weightier
than when they went away. Garrett, it
was recorded, had put on three stone.
It rained dinners in the capital cities,
and Melbourne added a torchlight pro-
cession. The torchlight procession ended
at the Cricket Ground, which was “illu-
minated by the electric light,” and there
every member of the team was made
the subject of a speech and draped witn
ribbons and a medal.
“T. No. 1”: A yarn of “Ironbark Jim”
Burge (B. 5/5/’37). Once he was being
trained for a fight in Melbourne by
Peter Newton. He became a prey to
headaches, and after several curative
efforts, suggested that Newton should
'‘deal it out” to him and make his nose
bleed. This the old-timer conscientiously
tried to do until his knuckles were sore.
In desperation he seized an Indian club,
and Burge obligingly held his nose in
position. Just as the weapon was about
to fall the iron man changed his mind.
“No, Peter,” he said; “the club’s not
mine.”
* * * *
“0.T.”: For strictly personal reasons
there was bad blood between the pugs
and they fought like tiger-cats. After the
third round one rushed across to the
other’s corner with the right poised shout-
ing “You , you ’it me foul.” The
other responded with equal eloquence
and the choicest amenities filled the air
till the referee stepped between. “Come,
come, gentlemen,” he said. “No un-
pleasantness, please! ”


“Merc”: The dense fogs which have
descended on Melbourne this winter will
long be remembered by one Sydney visi-
tor. Coming out of the St. Kilda-road
motor-track into the six ways formed by
the junctions of High, Barkly and Fitzroy
streets and Punt and Dandenong roads he
was hopelessly boxed. With visibility re-
duced to 15ft., he put his par in low and
crawled forward in fits and starts. After
three-quarters of an hour, an observant
constable, notebook in hand, stopped him
with “What’re you up to?
You’ve passed me three times
in the last 10 minutes.” The
unhappy motorist had used
nearly a gallon of petrol going
round in circles.
"West Aussie”: A Queensland
shire councillor recently accused the local
newspaper of misreporting meetings, es-
pecially where Labor members were con-
cerned, and succeeded in getting a motion
carried that the offending sheet should
get no further “ads.” from this quarter.
Ji set me thinking of when a W.A. Minis-
ter of the Crown;, who had been scath-
ingly dealt with in a country paper,
wrote asking that his name be removed
from the subscribers’ list. The editor-
manager consulted his ledgers and found
that the politician had never paid a bean
for his copy since the first issue nearly 20
years before. Having a due regard to
both the Statute of Limitations and the
Minister’s own written admission that he
considered himself a subscriber, he re-
plied by posting to Parliament House an
account for six years’ subscription, with
the usual gummed slip attached. Ulti-
mately the matter was settled out of
court and. the aggrieved gentleman’s
name restored to the list of subscribers.
* ❖ ❖ *
“Orwell”: When I opened the door of
the flat a rotund little man asked whether
I wanted any windows cleaned. I ex-
plained that they were lattice-panes
which opened about 18in., and that I
doubted his ability to deal with them.
He explained that he was the business
manager, and that the working partner
he would bring around next day was
built on different lines and specifications.
On the morrow one glance at the pros-
pective window-cleaner convinced me of
that. The youth was about six feet six,
with the girth of a hungry snake. He
writhed around the window-sills and pol-
ished off the job with rare adroitness. I
was rather surprised that he didn’t depart
through the keyhole. In a civilisation
where there are so many misfits, my
memory will long linger on an operator
who was obviously built for this parti-
cular trade.
* * * *
“Sturma”: It was my first experience
of jumping a goods train. Six of us,
complete with swags, were crouching low
in the truck as the shunting proceeded at
a lonely siding. I grinned to think how
easy it had been to hide ourselves; then
the clanging of truck-couplings ceased,
and the guard’s footsteps came near. I
held my breath as he climbed on the
wheel; it seemed that we were gone. But
it was a cheerful face that appeared above
the truck and a cheering voice that said,
“Listen, if you birds don’t get in another
truck soon you'll be left behind!”
* * * *
“Tab”: The most forceful comment
I ever heard on pedantry came from an
imported Efficiency Expert. From be-
hind the shirt-counter, 1 saw him point
out to the boss a sign reading “Purchase
your half-hose here.” “Half-hose!”
roared the Expert. “You mean ‘We sell
gahd-damn sox!’”
*** * • >
“Sailor Once”: Postal facilities en-
joyed by British men-o’-war are even
more extensive than “Kellick” (B.
30/6/’37)" mentions. Every flagship is a
branch-office of the G.P.0., London, in
receiving and dispatching mails. Cap-
tains are even expressly empowered to
intercept their mails at'any point before
they reach the ships. When the Mildura
was at Fremantle 35 years ago, acting
under instructions I boarded an outward-
bound P. and O. liner and extracted our
mailbag from the larger one labelled
“C-in-C, Australian Station, Sydney.” The
captain’s written request and his receipt
for the mail-matter were sufficient
vouchers for the P. and O. skipper.
“Colonel Bungstarter”: It is sincerely
to be hoped that the good old spit-and-
polish traditions are not to be introduced
to Australia’s Royal Military College at
Canberra. The Commandant recently in-
formed Parliament that several cadets
“THAT'S the little toque I Was telling you about, Muriel!"
had been found to have fractured bones
in the wrist, with the result of disability
in movements “such as sword exercises.”
The only use for swords to-day is on
parade, and a defect which is of only
parade importance should not be per-
mitted to interfere with a lad’s military
prospects. The officer’s weapon is the
revolver, and no hyper-extension of the
wrist is needed for its expert use. If
the sword is liable to interfere with a
course of training involving 6500 work-
ing hours in a four-year period, and
ranging from learning Japanese to book-
keeping, in addition to military speciali-
ties, our war-lord, Mr. Parkhill, should
abolish it without delay.
“Harold Hardupp”: In one of the
N.S.W. northern coalfields towns a path
through the cemetery is generally used
as a short cut. Rolling home in the dark-
ness after the pubs closed a drunk lurched
into a freshly-dug grave. Soon after-
wards some later birds passed and heard
an eerie voice, blanketed to some extent
by the dull earth walls, calling “Help!
Help me out of this!” A voice coming
from a grave would be upsetting even
in the daytime, and when the appeal was
repeated the half-sozzled company fled
incontinently. One only, braver or more
sober than the rest, paused to ask, a
trifle quaveringly, “Who are you, and
where are you?” The reply “I’m in the
grave” was not reassuring, and the ques-
tioner probably made the fastest time
home of any. It was an organised party,
setting out to investigate the reports, that
finally rescued the entombed one.
“A. de R.”: In a Sydney suburb the
other day I caught sight of my first
female signwriter. In paint-spattered
overalls she was confidently perched on
top of a high ladder, her blonde hair
smartly waved and her dangling feet in
gay sandals. But the invasion of men’s
occupations by women has so long ceased
to be a novelty that those who saw her
seemed but mildly interested.
* * =!= *
“F.0.R.”: The “travel order” scheme,
whereby a man in Melbourne can buy a
ticket for a friend at a distance, is bring-
ing Vic. Railways some amazing re-
quests. A Caulfield man, walking into
the S.M.’s office at Spencer-street, asked
if he could take advantage of the system,
on behalf of a friend in Newcastle
(N.S.W.). Assured that he could, he
gave the necessary details, adding as an
afterthought, “1 suppose it’s O.K. for
him to come by ’plane?”
“P.0.M.C.”: As regards its trains,
Melbourne is no more color-conscious
than Sydney (B. 30/6/’37). The New-
castle (N.S.W.) “flyer” is painted tomato-
red, the Caves Express affects heavenly
blue and the South Coast mail sports
pea-green. And the new process of per-
manently adding dyes to cement seems
likely to splash the facings of Sydney
(and Melbourne) buildings with all the
shades in the spectrum. The cement is
sprayed on like duco, and the process
is so simple that the sculptured celebrities
in public reserves may soon;be as color-
fully arrayed in stone or bronze as they
were in the flesh.
“Shanghai”: Mention of fines imposed
on electors who neglect their duty (B.
30/6/’37) recalls the case of a married
couple on the North Coast (N.S.W.) who
travel several miles together on polling
days to vote for opposing candidates.
Before the introduction of compulsory
voting they always granted each other a
pair. 1
* * * *
Somebody has been pulling
“Twenty-seven’s” leg about the “Meso-
potamian rose” (B. 23/6/’37), cited as a
new product of the glamorous East. The
shrub referred to is obviously Hibiscus
mutabilis, a deciduous variety, native of
China but long cultivated in India,
whence it was introduced into England in
1690. Its scientific name implies that it
is changeable, and, while it is true that
one of the species opens its flowers a
light cream color (not “virgin white”)
and that as the flower ages it turns to
pink, it needs a vivid imagination to de-
scribe the color of the dying flower as
crimson. It would more correctly be
called a dark-puce pink. The term
“Mesopotamian rose” is a misnomer. The
plant isn’t a rose, and doesn’t come from
Mesopotamia.
* * ❖
“Colonel Bungstarter”: Don’t agree
with the proposition (B. 23/6/’37) that
no good marksman has eyes other than
blue; still, without exception, all the
really remarkable rifle and revolver shots
whom I have; met—and they have been
very many—have had either pale-blue or
grey eyes, usually deep-set. A man who
had been a Western sheriff (U.S.A.) in
the ’seventies and eighties and had
known all the famous gun-fighters—
" Wild Bill" Hickok, Billy the Kid,
Wyatt Earp and the rest—told me that
they were all fair-haired and blue-eyed.
Jack Hamilton, some of whose N.Q.
feats with the revolver have never been
equalled, had light blue-grey eyes, set
very far back under bony brows. I’ve
seen really good shots with dark eyes,
but never a marvel among them.
* * as *
"Jungor’ : Animals, of course, are
much better weather prophets than
humans (B. 7/7/’37), and men who study
the habits of animals, birds and even in-
sects closely are unlikely to have much
to learn from armchair meteorologists.
There is a striking passage in one of
Thomas Hardy's books about the fore-
telling of a thunderstorm by the restless-
ness evinced among all sorts and condi-
tions of such live barometers. It is a
well-accepted belief in England that
swallows, pursuing flies at a lower level
than usual, are a sign that rain is handy.
Probably uncivilised man can see much
further ahead. I can recall an aged
blackfellow on a Westralian goldfield
who warned us in 1899 to expect an
extra wet winter because “bungarras mak-
ing their holes high up.” I don’t know
what sort of underground retreats bun-
garras make, but within the month huge
stretches of country were under water.
It was the wettest season on record in a
land where the rainfall is mostly of the
scantiest.
“Coot”: One may encounter some
quaint trade signs (B. 23/6/’37) in Mel-
bourne. A Swanston-street furrier for
over 12 months displayed an intimation
on his window: “Customers’ Own Skins
Made Up.” I have seen in a dingy
second-hand shop a watch ticketed “War-
ranted in Good Odor” ; and a suburban
herbalist played safe in announcing: “A
multiplicity of diseases are easily cured
if you only' know how.”
* .* < .# * *
“Eman”: Canberra’s Publicity Depart-
ment (B. 30/6/’37) is not- the first to
blunder over the sex of our P.M. On the
Lyonses’ first overseas tour the magazine
“Time” came out with a photograph of
.Toe and Dame Enid descending the gang-
way of their transatlantic liner. The cap-
tion ran: “To stay with Ropsevelt—the
Prime Minister of Australia and her
husband.”
“Den”: The Spanish “rebels” were
stated to have bombed the open towns of
Pamplona and Valladolid, killing many
women and children. Both these places
were secured by Franco’s men at the very
beginning of the civil war, and are now
many miles behind his lines. Tn any case,
neither is an open town. Valladolid has
been for many years the headquarters of
an army corps, and Pamplona is one of
the strongest fortresses in Spain.
“Aneroid”: It isn’t the frequent in-
accuracy of these weather reports that
upsets me —even Clement Wragge was
far from infallible—so much as the
studied ambiguity which occasionally dis-
tinguishes them. For example:
The State Meteorologist said last night
that he expected the weather to be mainly
fine during the week-end, but the likeli-
hood of showers could not be neglected.
In other words, it will be fine if it
doesn’t happen to rain. Its sets one think-
ing of some of the guarded pronounce-
ments of the Delphic oracle.
“Coot”: The superintendent of the
Melbourne Benevolent Hospital for the
Aged and Infirm recently converted a
large room into a chapel. In response
,to an appeal for the requisite furnishings
the first article to arrive was a baptismal
font. The 600 inmates are aged between
70 and 90!
“Katie Keyboard”: There’s a girl in
our office who thinks she’s literary be-
cause her dad’s a printer, and, gee,
doesn’t she go all green whenever 1 get
a piece into The Bulletin ! So I’m start-
ing to tell her about all the nice boys
who write The Bulletin, like the Span-
ish one who writes El Verdugo, very
tall and dark, with sex-appeal eyes and
dinky bullfighter whiskers like Rudolf
Valentino, and plays a guitar beauti-
fully. And Curate’s Egg, a dear, just
like a nice boy I knew who went into
the church because he thought he was
consumptive. And I know X.N.O. is a
lamb of a sailor because of all he knows
about the Navy, and he’s got an anchor
and two hearts tattooed on his arm.
And I’m sure Colonel Bungstarter was
at our office yesterday, because of his
lovely grey cavalry mo. and the way
he roared up Jimmy the office boy when
he told him the manager was out.
KEEPSAKES.
I was looking around for some extra socks
When I came across an ebony box
Where I keep a few of the souvenirs
That I salvaged out of the war-wrecked years.
Baubles, trifles of little worth,
From the farthest ends of the mad, red earth,
Here on the table beside me now —
Oh, the heedless heart and the broken vow!
There’s a photo, here of a London nurse:
She might have done better, 1 might have done
worse;
But, oh, she was tender and kind and true,
And we talked of marriage, and meant it, too.
But you know how the wires of life get crossed,
And your leave’s cut short, and your letters get
lost,
And you don’t seem to care, in the end, some-
how,
For the waiting girl or the broken vow.
I went to Paris on leave one day—
Is there anything more that I need to say?
Perhaps she was only a pretty wench,
But, oh, it was dirty and dark in the trench!
1 was starved for laughter and life and love.
This was her garter—this was her glove.
And we promised—but why should I think or
tell
Of the first fierce kiss or the last farewell?
An Iron Cross —he was brave, no doubt,
But my luck was in and his luck was out.
My bayonet twisted —he gave a grunt;
All quiet for him on the Western Front.
This badge was one that my own mate wore
When he fell beside me at Bullecourt,
And I swore I’d get square ere the day grew
dim . . .
Well, I kept the promise I made to him!
An ebony box and a silver key
That opens the warehouse of memory!
Mates and mistresses —friends and foes—
A soft-nosed bullet—a faded rose.
Sydney and Cairo, Paris and Perth;
Bitterness, tenderness, mourning and mirth.
And the victor’s crown for the victor’s brow.
But, Life, you promised, and broke your vow !
QUEENSLAND.
L. M. D. O 'NEIL.


his masterpiece is Jerfeciton
me spirit he always serves.
i i
m
ms
•SPSi*
if mrc
v.: vM A .&W
a%, II .
yjurj
¥
\iT
miTnliminnmwMiin im "in —’
(IFGaUums
Scots (Übislgr
&. sux»*~-
( rov«#l* >$•"»)
(D c Gxllum’s
yAo Ci/A/sAy Js-
DISTRIBUTORS FOR THE HOUSE OF McCALLUM:
GOLDSBROUGH, MORT & CO., LTD., Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane. GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO.,
LIONEL SAMPSON & SON, Fremantle. MACFARLANE BROS. & CO., Hobart.
Adelaide.
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK'S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
z
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- {plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
.*#
>*>*-
«*v?
c°:
<5- . o< l A'^V^
#** e »^Vf
<*'
o° a<>
,e
&
iV
4
#■'
o'
■ a
\0 vW c


Zoo GENEEST
MEN EEN VERKOUDHEID'
Axdd~pimid rfW)
2
l
&
m
m
m
HR
\ x
w
31
'■■>
¥
1 , *
,\\
W.S.2 —60
• • ®
Here’s the way to,
stop that c01a..!
The surest way to ward off a cold is to take a hot
drink of Wolfe’s Schnapps and lemon! It purifies the
blood-stream by cleansing the kidneys, and tones-up and
invigorates the whole system. Wise folk who treasure
good health take Wolfe’s Schnapps every day. You,
too, will benefit by a daily glass of this
purest of all gin spirits which contains
such high medicinal properties not
found in other spirits! Wolfe’s Schnapps
is
SCHNAPPS
PRODUCT OF HOLLAND
"For your health’s sake 99
genuinely distilled in Holland .
WOLFE
OLFES
m
w
IS.
M
*
WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS is
obtainable in large, half and
quarter size bottles at all hotels
