

2=
~o
5
df
To direct shipping along safe
channels, the beacon buoy,
accurately placed after careful
survey, forms an integral part
of the maritime safety systems.
Hamiltons (A/sia), Ltd.,
through its specialised organi-
sation enables investors to
steer clear of unwise invest-
ments, by offering advice on
present holdings and recom-
mending only propositions
which have passed expert
scrutiny and are of proved
dividend-earning capacity.
iHanriltom (Australasia) limited
UN VESTMENT AND FINANCIAL ADVISERS
AUTHORISED CAPITAL: £250,000.
Head Office; KEMBLA BUILDING, MARGARET STREET, SYDNEY.
’Phones: 8W1146 and 1147. (G.P.O. Box 375255.)
Branch Offices: Commercial Bank Chambers, Beardy Street, Armidale, N.S.W.—’Phone, Armidale 150; Box No. 123 Armidale.
Union Bank Chambers, 21 Bolton Street, Newcastle—’Phone, Newcastle 1942.
VICTORIA:
Metropolitan Building,
89-91 Queen Street,
Melbourne.
G.P.O. Box 520 J.
QUEENSLAND:
Bth Floor,
A.M.P. Chambers,
Edward Street,
Brisbane.
G.P.O. Box 101 7N,
1H
QUEENSLAND:
Bank of N.S.W. Chambers,
Flinders Street,
Townsville.
G.P.O. Box 280.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
C.M.L. Building,
King William Street,
Adelaide.
G.P.O. Box
The Bulletin
Vol. 58.—N0. 3000.
Wednesday, August 11, 1937.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper,


DYMOCK’S NEW LIBRARY
CATALOGUE FOR 1937
is now ready and will be forwarded post free
with terms and particulars on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
“The Block,”
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
d
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HEBE AND MAID
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Prop, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
My Address
S.B. 337
S. H. Prior Memorial Prize
Fourth Competition Closes June 6, 1938.
Full particulars of this annual literary award will be published
here from time to time, or may be had on application to The
Bulletin, 252 George-street, Sydney.
For this current competition only novels are eligible, and the
Prize will be awarded to that which is considered the most
outstanding contribution to Australian literature. _ ,
The trustees will publish the successful work in book form,
and in serial form any they may deem worthy. If published as a
serial the winner will be paid for at serial rates in addition to the
prize-money. Any others used as serials will also be paid for at
serial rates. •
Any bona fide Australian resident or any person born in
Australia, New Zealand or British South Pacific islands will be
eligible to enter for the competition works which must be the
original work of the entrants, and previously unpublished, either
wholly or in part, in book or serial form. Manuscripts must be
submitted under a nom de plume, and the true name and address
of the author must accompany each entry in a sealed envelope,
which will not be opened until the judges have made their decision.
The trustees reserve the right to withhold the Prize if no work
submitted is, in the opinion of the judges, worthy ofan award.
If this should occur in any year, the amount of the Prize will oe
added to the following year’s Prize.
The Red Page
SCHOOLS AND SCHOOLMASTERS.
Two English headmasters, each with over 40
of public-school teaching, have written books
which prove how far the outlook on education has
drifted since British public-school headships ceased to
be an ecclesiastical preserve.
Frank Fletcher, in his After Many Days (Robert
Hale; 12s. 6d.), represents an intermediate academy
of thought. He was schooled at Rossall in Lancashire
and saw the. age of Jowett die at Balliol College,
Oxford, before beginning the career which made him
successively Master of Marlborough and headmaster
of Charterhouse, a school which has given Aus-
tralia at least one outstanding headmaster —R. H. Roe,
for 30 years at Brisbane Grammar School —and one
of the most scholarly of Australian Governors —
George Bowen, of Queensland, Victoria and Maori-
land.
Fletcher, who was recently in Australia, and who
has since been knighted for his services as chairman
of the Public Schools Conference, \yas invited to
Charterhouse before the war, when the school was in
the doldrums. He retired last year after 35 years in
charge.
The essence of the Fletcher recipe for a success-
ful public school includes the condition that it should
not be so big that it is impossible for the head to make
his personal influence reach as far as the smallest boy.
He believes in supervised delegation of authority in
school government to senior schoolboys. He is cer-
tain a headmaster should never forget that he is a
teacher and that the best channel of inspiration to
both staff and boys is through his teaching. This is
a policy easier to exercise in English public schools,
which have a bursar or some such official who fully
relieves the head of business cares, than it is in many
Australian schools.
Fletcher believes, too, in the personal contact,
and apparently also in retaining his sense of humor:
It is a common experience of schoolmasters to be
told long afterwards by an old pupil that he has never
forgotten some chance saying of theirs which they them-
selves do not remember. We may be thankful that it is
something we do not regret and are prepared to main-
tain. I do not remember that my parting words to a
modern writer when he left school were “Good-bye,
Robert, and remember that the waste-paper basket is
your truest friend.” But he says that I said it, and I
am content that it should be so. He would be a poorer
man but a better writer to-day if he had taken the
advice to heart.
Compared with the lots of Australian masters,
those of the English breed are set in pleasant places.
Public schools range in size from Watson’s, Edinburgh,
with its 1300 boys, and Eton, which H. H. Asquith
described as more like a caravanserai than a school,
to smallish and ancient foundations like St. Peters,
York, which is 1300 years old. Not merely the fact
that there is an aristocracy of schools in England, but
the existence of better developed endowments and
generally higher fees and wider opportunities place the
English first-flight public-school master in a class by
himself.
He is usually from one of the older universities,
distinguished both in scholarship and athletics, and
plunges into his new profession knowing that it is
more lucrative than most other old-established profes-
sions, except medicine and the law, and that his suc-
cess in it may lead anywhere, especially if he happens
to be in holy orders. More than one Archbishop of
Canterbury began life as an assistant master at a
public school.
The type produced is often original of mind, able,
erudite and even witty. Such was the ancient and
peerless T. E. Page, of Charterhouse, who once, at a
municipal banquet, rejoiced that the school was bound
to the old town of Godaiming by “the deep and
dear connection of a common sewer” and in whose
Shakspearean-looking head was coined the saying:
I know nothing pleasanter than to do something
you want to do, to feel that it is your duty to do it,
and to do it at somebody else’s expense.
It is quite possible that Arnold of Rugby would
not have approved of Page. He might even have
looked askance at Fletcher, who chose Jacob Epstein
to model his bust. But the great man would certainly
have forgotten them both as his gaze fell on a still
newer species of master only first coming out of the
shell.
Its most prominent representative is J. H. Badley,
M.A., whose schoolmastering began at Arnold’s
school, Rugby, and ended at Bedales, England’s only
co-educational public school. His picture of the old
Rugby in A Schoolmaster’s Testament (Blackwell;
7s. 6d.) is of a typical institution of its kind in the
days when baths were still only a Saturday night
affair and the environment was generally monastic in
its severity of living and smacked of the barrack in
its roughness.
Different is Bedales. The presence of the fair sex
discourages gravel rash, and the school without a sigh
voted against acceptance of a German gun as a war
memorial. Exercise is “scientific” rather than in the
form of organised school games, and great attention is
given to the development of a healthy attitude to sex.
Mr. Badley’s chapters on this aspect of the work
of Bedales follows trends which Arnold would cer-
tainly not be likely to approve.
He stresses that it is a mistake to suppose that
co-education compels boy and girl to do everything
together pr that equality demands identity of treat-
ment.
He admits that a doubt must remain in many
minds whether a common upbringing of youngsters,
if it results in a premature awakening of sex feeling,
must not add to the difficulties of adolescence; but he
says that only wilful blindness can suggest that sex-
feelings are hot active in school years, and he thinks
those feelings are safer if they are pruned and trained
into the way they should go, rather than suppressed
and warped into wrong shapes. Badley is so liberal-
minded on the question of bodies that he. is even
ready to admit that
There is much to be said for the practice, when
possible, of nudism as a means of mental as well as
bodily health. I have little doubt that it will be more
adopted both in homes and schools as its value comes
to be recognised. Under right conditions, amongst
frriends and at camp, for instance, it is perfectly pos-
sible, and I believe it all to the good. But I have
never wished to make it the rule for all, as there are
some whom it makes unwholesomely sex-conscious.
There are moments when the shades of the author
of Eric, or Little by Little must feel glad that it is no
longer of this world.
ENTE MARID.
Scotland in the Doldrums.
“Stands Scotland where she did?” Hardly. She
is being invaded by the Irish.
Between the last two censuses the Scottish popu-
lation decreased by 40,000, and this decline would
have been much greater but for the stream of Irish
immigrants who crossed over to seek jobs on the
Clyde. Cicely Hamilton, in Modem Scotland (Dent;
7s. 6d.), declares that the Irish-born and Irish-
descended colony in the Glasgow region now totals
600,000, while the Irish number one in six of the
population of jute-making Dundee.
Since the restriction of immigration into America
—“the inevitable goal of the Irishman seeking his
fortune” —the Irish overflow has turned its attention
east, partly to Liverpool, but particularly to Clydeside.
Miss Hamilton’s view is that this is the main reason
why De Valera does not declare straight out for a
republic. Once he did so the Free State citizen would
become an alien, and his ideal of a non-emigrating
Ireland would be attained before he is ready for it.
Another reason for the Irish rush to Scotland is that
the' unemployment allowance is several shillings a
week more there.
The influx of the Irish intensifies the housing
problem in slum-ridden Glasgow. They overpeopled
the rookeries there, and their birthrate beats the Hous-
ing Act, which requires a room for every two members
of a family, so that, though the Scottish local author-
ities built over 133,000 houses (the equivalent of a
town half the size of Glasgow) in 10 years, and the
Glasgow corporation alone has completed its forty-
thousandth house and subsidised the construction of
10,000 more, the Clydeside slums are still the worst
in the British Isles.
Miss Hamilton goes on to deal with the depopu-
lation of the Highlands, which, containing more than
half of Scotland’s area, has less than a twelfth of
its five millions. While the unhappy clearances
accounted for most of this, peasant industries have
been swamped by the product of the factory, cheap
transport provides an easy means to see the outside
world, and education, which fashions the child of
the peasant for something more than the simple life
he leads, increases' the southward drift. With Aus-
tralian competition beating the Scot out of the wool
market, Highlanders are reduced to providing board
and lodging for the tourist. The Scots are leaving
Scotland while the Irish are coming in.
The book is more concerned with the present
problems of Scotland than with its past glories, and
discourses on the Nationalist movement, the Gaelic
cult, the Kirk and the Catholic without dogmatism.
Incidentally, Miss Hamilton heads a chapter
“Glasgow, the Second City of the Empire.” Evidently
she hasn’t thought of Calcutta, Sydney, Bombay or
Montreal, each of which has a greater population
than the Clydeside metropolis.
A Siege of Hollywood.
Edward Nils Holstius, who recounts in Holly-
wood Through the Back Door (Geoffrey Bles; 10s.
6d.) his experiences during a six months’ residence
in Hollywood, where he vainly strove to get a footing
as a scenario writer, should stand as a shocking
example to others who may be tempted to embark
on a similar quest. For Holstius was well-equipped.
A director of a British phonograph-record-making
co., -salary £2500 p.a., he had a host of American
connections, many of them in Hollywood, and went
there armed with letters of introduction to a host of
motion picture executives. He had written some
novels and had them published, had also some ex-
perience as a playwright, and, as his latest book
demonstrates, is at his best in dialogue.
Having a feeling that his vocation was that of
a writer for the films rather than a businessman, he
took a six months’ vacation from his directorial desk
and travelled to ’Frisco. During the first weeks of
his sojourn in California he pretended to be a sailor,
deserted from his ship, went unshaved and mingled
with poor folk, believing that was the best way to
get the feel of the strange new world that has sprung
up in Los Angeles, He hitch-hiked on lorries from
’Frisco to Culver City, and on his journey, it would
seem, heard more hard facts and intelligent comment
on Hollywood and its people than he ever did from
the actors, producers, directors and agents whom he
met in more exalted circles when he arrived there.
Here’s a piece from a summing-up by a lorry-driver
whose brother was a carpenter on the M.-G.-M. lot:
The people who own the place came into it in the
early days without any experience of the show business.
Some peddled old clothes, some carpets, some made
buttons or gloves, some were cheap furriers; but before
long these were all in the money. So they sent for
their relations to come down and join ’em. Some went
into the making of motion pictures; others went as
agents, but they tied up the business between them all
right. Everyone knows the dough they’ve cleaned up.
But they’re still ignorant—see? And having made
the dough quickly they don’t know how to handle it.
They throw it down the sink through ignorance—see?—
but the thing’s so big it still can’t help making money.
But when one of the so-called “big shots” oversteps the
mark, then the bank steps in and puts someone in to
watch how the money’s being spent. Yah —until Holly-
wood passes into the hands of educated people it won’t
reach its rightful level.
And again, from the same authority, concerning the
status of stars:
They manufacture stars down here. Change their >
hair, pull out their teeth, alter their noses and any
other damn part of ’em that takes their fancy The
screen don’t demand the same intelligence as the stage.
There ain’t no long-winded speeches to make and no
three acts to remember either. Each little bit is
rehearsed on the set, time and time again. ’Taint even
necessary to learn your lines before you go on. You’ll
be sick and tired enough of ’em before you’re through.
And each little action don’t belong to you. It’s what
the director says. It’s mechanical —see? So it don’t
draw people with the highest intelligence.
When Mr. Holstius had a shave and put on his fine
linen and commenced his siege, of Hollywood, things
were made very pleasant for him by his friends. He
went to premieres and parties given by film stars
and saw all the sights, but his attempts to get. a
foot in as a scenario writer all had a depressing simili-
tude. He would get an interview with a film editor,
a producer or some other magnate, through the influ-
ence of his friends. The magnate would make vague
promises, ask to see all Holstius had written, and
promise to ’phone him next day. That ’phone call
never came. He spent endless hours waiting near
a telephone. And that was all there was to it. He
hadn’t any “credits” (i.e., had never been associated
with a film in any capacity that called for a credit
line in the titling), and Hollywood therefore refused
to know that he existed.
The real interest of Mr. Holstius’s book—the
film part of it is an old story —lies in adventures
outside his quest: how he dislocated his hip and
was shamefully neglected in an osteopathic hospital;
what he saw at “strip-tease” shows ; his impressions
of Dr. Townsend, Mrs. Aimee Macpherson and other
quaint publicists, and, above all, the obvious -sincerity
and completeness with which he records his thoughts
and his doings. But it is a terribly prolix book, and
if his others are like it in that respect it’s a guinea
to a gooseberry that the Hollywood tycoons never
got beyond the second page of any of them.
The Uncrowned King.
No British politician in modern times has inspired
the flow of more ink than Charles Stewart Parnell,
himself a man of few words. A full-dress “life” by
Barry O’Brien, Harrison’s “vindication,” T. P. O’Con-
nor’s reminiscent volume, William O’Brien’s Parnell,
the Real Man, and Mrs. O’Shea’s reminiscences have
hitherto formed the staple of an ever-expanding
Parnell menu. To these has now been added Joan
Haslip’s Parnell (Cobden Sanderson; 155.). .
It is a pity for the sake of history that all the
Parnell books have been written by his friends and
admirers or ex-admirers. A really able exposition
of the man’s character through the eyes of one of
his English enemies would have been worth while.
He had no scholarship, no graces that can be
described in words. When a deputation waited on
him with a cheque for £40,000 which a grateful
country had subscribed, he limited the conversation
to asking whether it was crossed or made out to
order. In his early days of politics, he was involved
{Continued on page 8.)


TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”-Business Integrity.
THE SENIOR STORE. 1
m
'
&v.
\
vvV
SSffi
rA • iiM
&
s*7-#
** >
X
\'
/,
ANTHONY
.
HORDERNS'
MEN’S WEAR
for Approaching
J
Warmer Weather at
“Famous Low Prices”
Men's White Poplin Tennis Shirts
Strength combined with roomy comfort makes this the
ideal Tennis Shirt. Made of British Poplin with open
sports collar attached or ordinary tennis collar. Long
sleeves, finished with button cuffs. Sizes 1 4in. to 19in.
neck. At Anthony Horderns 5/6
X \
Vt
..v /
pns
/
/
.
m
um
mu
CEYLONETTE
SHIRTS.
These Shirts are suit-
able for work or
sports wear. Bold
overcheck designs in
Dark Grey or Dark
Brown tones. Collar
attached and two
military pockets.
Buttoned cuffs. Sizes
1 to 1
neck. Price ... 8/6
Special Price . . 6/6
WOOL AND
COTTON
UNDERWEAR
Comfortable Under-
wear for between
seasons’ wear. A
combination of Wool
and Cotton in
medium or heavy
weight. Undershirts
with short sleeves.
Underpants to ankle.
Sizes 34in. to 44in.
chest' or waist. Price,
garment 8/6
Special Price, 5/11.
White All Wool Sleeveless PULLOVERS
For sports wear, you will find one of these Pullovers among the most practical
you’ve ever worn. Made of All Wool in a fancy stitch. A sleeveless style, with
V neck. Sizes range from 36in. to 40in. chest. At Anthony Horderns’, 12/6.
WHITE COTTON ATHLETIC SINGLETS
The active sportsman needs a supply of comfortable Singlets. Made of White
Cotton in an elastic knit. Sleeveless style and standard qualities. Sizes 34in. to
42in. chest. Medium weight. At Anthony Horderns’ 1/6
Heavy weight. Price 1/11
6/6 Suirmerweight All Wool Underwear
Men who appreciate fine quality Underwear should buy a supply
at this saving. Made of soft All Wool in a summer weight and
finished flat lock seams. Undershirts with short sleeves. Under-
pants to ankle. Sizes 34in. to 44in. chest or waist. Price,
garment 6/6. Special Price 4/11
4H
WOOL & LISLE WHITE TENNIS HOSE
Moderately-priced Tennis Socks made to give the greatest service
possible. A wool and lisle mixture in a ribbed knit. Sizes 1 Oin.
to 1 2in. foot. At Anthony Horderns 2/11
2ii
7'6 ELASTIC WEB ARMY BRACES, now
The saving of 3/- per pair on these strong Braces is definitely
worthwhile. Made of stout super quality Elastic Web with Grey
Suede Leather ends. Self colours and hairline stripes. Price,
pair 7/6. Special Price, pair 4/6
4 c
Q Mercery—Ground Floor, George Street. Freight paid to all railway stations in N.S.W.
and seaports in the Commonwealth.
ANTHONY HORDERN
AND SONS LTD., SYDNEY
’Phone: M 2401, Day and Night. Postal Address: Box 2712 C, G.P.O.


Of an Amazing Experiment
A DOG'S LFE
By H. C.McKay
MR. JAMES GAMBRELL walked up to the
wardrobe mirror and looked at himself. “A
nice mess I’ve got myself into. Four paws
and a tail!”
Anger and consternation surged through him as
he realised his predicament, and his tail swished
viciously in sympathy. This was what came of fooling
with animal extracts. He should have known better.
Was he not the author of several scientific papers
proving that the type-characteristics of animals de-
pended on their tissue fluids? And here he had been
self-experimenting with extracts made from animal
organs by a new vitality-preserving process. One
hypodermic injection of that last lot and he had
become a —well, what the devil was he?
He padded back to the mirror, resisting a horrible
impulse to go on all fours. His skin, he noted, had
darkened, his features had broadened. Two large
furry ears sprang from each side of his head ; his
fingers had vanished, his nails were now claws, and,
flowing from under his pyjama coat, was that un-
speakable beastly tail.
The front door slammed, heavy footsteps
sounded in the hall ; his wife had come back from
the pictures. “James! Where are you?”
Overcome with terror, Mr. Gambrell locked the
door of his den. “Busy—-don’t interrupt me now!”
he shouted. Luckily he could still speak.
Like all wives, Mrs. Gambrell took no notice
of such bans. She stamped angrily up to the closed
door, tried the handle, thumped it. “Let me in, James,
at once! It’s important—l’ve got something to tell
you! ”
Gambrell dropped on all fours and backed away
growling before he could check himself. Then reason
prevailed ; he forced himself up on his hind legs once
more.
“Most critical experiment!” he shouted. “Mustn’t
be interrupted—will take at least two hours yet. You
go to bed, m’dear; I’ll see you in the morning.”
After the usual matrimonial argument and hag-
gling, Mrs. Gambrell retired grumbling. Gambrell
heard her banging and rattling first in the kitchen,
then in the bedroom. Finally, there was silence. He
sank into a chair, a muscular feat which had become
somehow difficult, and took stock of the situation.
He would have to get out of the house ; that
was obvious. By the morning he might have lost
human speech. They would hunt him and capture
him ; he might be shot or transferred to the zoo.
His only hope was to get to his pal Dr. Zercus, over
in Mosman, and explain matters while he could stiff
articulate. To ’phone was impossible; it would bring
his wife out at once.
Gambrell unlocked the door quietly and sneaked
out noiselessly on his pads. He found the bathroom
window open and cleared it at a bound. With a
thrill of pleasure he drank in the glorious scents of
the autumn night.
L_l E went unashamedly now on four paws, leapt
* * the gate and set off at a brisk lope down the
road. But he had reckoned without the local dogs.
They set up a frenzied barking and yelping. Finally,
first one and then another ventured to take up chase.
“Get away, you curs!” shouted Gambrell, rearing
upright and facing them. At that a canine pande-
monium broke loose. The neighbors were roused ;
lights appeared in windows; in a moment he would
be discovered.
Tearing off his pyjamas, Gambrell dropped on
all fours and galloped for his life. For a moment,
till he gathered speed, he felt the hot breath of Smith’s
collie on his tail. But he found he could outdistance
his pursuers with ease. Soon they were merely a
noise in the far distance. He pulled up in a clump
of bushes on some vacant land, panting but trium-
phant.
A sudden realisation cut short his triumph.
Zercus lived at Mosman—the other side of the harbor.
To get there Gambrell would have to pass through
the city and cross the bridge. And he had, literally,
thrown his pyjamas to the dogs.
A wild idea of climbing on the back of a taxi
for the ride across he quickly rejected ; there was
the halt at the toll. Then a bolder plan suddenly
took shape in his mind.
To this day Constable Bowsher is still in a fog as
to how it all happened. He saw a suspicious-looking
individual, who appeared to be. clad in black tights,
crawl into the shadow of a Pitt-street shop doorway ;
he “proceeded to investigate.”
“What’s going on here?” he challenged. There
was a snarl, and next moment he was felled by a
blow of a paw that felt like a ton of bricks. When
he came to he was shivering with cold; both his
uniform and the mysterious miscreant had vanished.
Clad in blue, surmounted by the official cap,
shod in the regulation boots, Gambrell was by that
time negotiating the footpath over the bridge. He
forced himself, against a growing animal rebellion
within him, to walk sedately upright, but he felt he
could not withstand the urge much longer.
It was past midnight, and the sole person he
encountered on the footway was a stealthy individual
who pulled down his hat and averted his face as they
passed. Gambrell had done the same; then by a
queer coincidence each halted and looked back. The
moonlight shone full on Gambrell’s face. With a
yell the man took to his heels, Gambrell after him in
great leaps, on all fours. With a sudden effort, how-
ever, the scientist managed to pull up. He clung to
the bridge lattice, fighting against himself, slavering
with unreasoning rage. It was some minutes before
he could gain control and pace like a sedate biped
once more.
Passing over into North Sydney, he struck more
trouble. A car suddenly drew up alongside him with
a screech of brakes. The driver, a pretty woman,
accosted him. “Can you direct me, please, constable?
I’ve lost my way. I want to get to Portlake Flats,
Raingold-avenue.”
RAINGOLD-AVENUE— that was where Zercus
lived! Gambrell was getting tired, his back paws
were sore. The back of the car was dark ; he decided
to risk it. “I’ll get in and direct you. I’m going that
way,” he mumbled as distinctly as he' could; his
voice was rapidly going.
He got in the back of the car but found he could
no longer sit; he crouched with his front paws on
the back of the driver’s seat, hoping the woman would
not turn and look at him. She chatted amiably ;
Gambrel! growled back “Yes,” “No” and directions
“Left,” “Right.” Suddenly she slowed down at a
corner. “Isn’t this it —down here?”
Gambrell struggled to answer, and found it hope-
less. Speech had at last deserted him. But he did
the best he could. He threw up his muzzle and gave
two loud affirmative barks. The woman switched on
the car light, saw his face and paws, screamed, pressed
the accelerator and collapsed in a faint over the
wheel. The car sprang forward and crashed into a
light standard with a clatter of breaking glass.
Gambrell, with a front leg injured, set up a wild
yelping for a moment or two. Then he climbed out
of the window without another thought for the un-
fortunate driver, and limped on three legs down to
Dr. Zercus’s house.
'T' HE house was in darkness. Gambrell prowled
*■ round till he found the doctor’s bedroom window,
a swing-out sash, half-open. He pulled it wide and
leapt noiselessly in. Zercus was sound asleep. He
had dropped off reading a book. The light was on.
For a moment Gambrell hesitated to wake him.
Zercus had pretty strong nerves; but the sudden
apparition of a laige animal clad in police uniform
might rattle the self-control of the strongest. Gazing
round the room he noted a writing-pad and pencil
on a chain. Getting the pencil between his front
paws he found he could still write in a sprawling kind
of way. In capitals he laboriously printed: THIS IS
GAMBRELL. RESULT OF ANIMAL EXTRACT
EXPERIMENTS. FOR HEAVEN’S SAKE, OLD
MAN, TELL ME WHAT TO DO. He tore off the
sheet, held it before him and woke the sleeper with
a few low apologetic barks.
Zercus could not restrain a stifled yell at sight
of the blue-clad object before him ; fear merged in
wonder as he read the inscription. He rubbed his
eyes. “Good God, Gambrell! ” he whispered hoarsely.
“What has happened? Is this really you?”
Feverishly pencilling, Gambrell outlined his
plight. He’d been collecting and extracting thyroids
for years; his main supply came from animals killed
by motor-cars in the streets ; dogs, a few cats and
occasionally larger animals that died in circus men-
ageries. His new method of preserving the gland
tissue had evidently included racial characteristics as
well. One injection, tried on himself —well, here he
was. And what was he?
Zercus got out of bed and surveyed Gambrell
carefully. “Looks like a mix-up of Newfoundland
and Alsatian mostly; but there’s a hint of cat about
the eyes and tail.”
“GET THIS DAMN’ UNIFORM OFF! MY
PAWS CAN’T MANAGE THE BUTTONS,”
appealed Gambrell per pencil.
He gasped with relief as Zercus undressed him;
the cloth had irritated the hair with which he was now
completely furnished. Then the two scientists set
to and discussed the situation.
The room was littered with pencilled sheets of
paper when Zercus finally summed up. “You can’t
go back home like this. I’ll ’phone your wife in the
morning that you’re staying with me for a few days
to carry on some important research. Then if the
transformation wears off no one will be any the wiser.
“If the change is permanent, you can stay on
here as my dog. There’s the big kennel our Alsatian
had still in our backyard. I’ll see you get food, com-
fort, exercise—everything you want in your new life.
And if there’s anything else you can just slip me a
note on the quiet.”
“YOU EXPECT ME TO LIVE IN A DAMN’
DOG’S KENNEL!” scrawled Gambrell in a rage.
“Good Lord, Gambrell, think of the scientific
interest of the thing! ” cried Zercus. “A human brain
in an animal’s body, sharing all the animal’s emotions
—why, it’s the chance of a lifetime! Many a scientist
would give his ears only to get the experience! We'll
write a book, we’ll revolutionise the psychology of
animals!”
Suddenly Gambrell’s irritation died down. A
great inward content surged through him. Actually
the appeal to his scientific side meant nothing. In-
stead, a more lowly series of emotions took their
place! A quiet, comfortable kennel, a good master,
(Continued on pase 7.)


A Feeling Sketch
The Picnic
By MARGARET TRIST
MAUDIE sniffed the air with her funny, flat little
nose. She sniffed again and stood still to
i enjoy it better. Then she remembered that
she mustn’t dawdle to-day of all days and
started to run. For to-day was the annual Sunday-
school picnic, and to be left behind would be very
terrible. If she didn’t reach the parish hall by nine
o’clock the cars and lorry might leave without her.
When you were only a little black girl no one thought
of waiting for you. Seized with panic, she ran faster,
the knees of her thin legs knocking together and her
chipped enamel mug flopping on the string that sus-
pended it, schoolbag fashion, across her shoulders.
As she rounded a corner she could see groups of
children clustered outside the hall, and her panic
subsided into a comfortable joy.
She arrived at the hall panting a little, eyes
sparkling and cheeks flushed. She gave a quick, half-
shy, half-delighted smile of greeting, and stood uncer-
tainly looking for someone to smile at her or invite
her to join their particular group. But only Mrs.
Wilson spoke. She was the curate’s wife, and had
just come out of the hall with the new bank man-
ager’s wife.
“Hullo, Maudie,” she said briskly. “Did you
think you were going to miss something if you didn’t
hurry?”
Everyone laughed, and Mrs. Wilson went on
to the bank manager’s wife: “We always have
Maudie. She’s quite an institution.”
Maudie, finding herself not wanted anywhere,
felt a little sad but not resentful. She went and stood
a little apart, and watched the food being brought
from the hall. Clothes-baskets of sandwiches, kero-
sene-tins of buttered buns, a couple of cases of fruit
and exciting tins of boiled lollies. Mrs. Wilson was
directing the stowing of the food in the back of one
of the cars and issuing commands in her high, thin
voice.
It was queer, thought Maudie, how you remem-
bered the things Mrs. Wilson said. Somehow each
word had a sharp little edge to it," so that it went into
the furtherest corner of your brain and stopped there.
“My goodness, that’s a lovely mug you’ve got,
Maudie,” Jeannie Walsh called so suddenly that
Maudie jumped.
“Did your mother pay five pounds for it,
Maudie?” put in Hazel Jones, whose father was the
stock-and-station agent.
Someone else said: “Perhaps she stole it.”
They all laughed, and Maudie, after one uncer-
tain, abashed look, waved the mug and laughed too,
feeling a sense of gratification that she could give
them pleasure.
The picnic was to be at the “Rocks,” a spot a few
miles out of town. Several people had lent their cars,
and a big lorry had been hired. There was great
excitement when the lorry drew up and the boys
charged at it, the more daring vaulting on to the
back before it was quite at a standstill. Mr. Wilson,
who had just emerged from the hall with several large
bottles of raspberry, said “Boys, boys!” and looked
helplessly at Mrs. Wilson.
Mrs. Wilson and the Sunday-school teachers then
began to pack the children in the cars, the little girls
for the most part being distributed among the cars, and
the commoner little girls and all the boys in the lorry.
It was a task which caused Mrs. Wilson a great
deal of worry, because a group of children clamoring
together so much resembled one another that it was
perilously easy to get them wrongly graded. Maudie
looked longingly at the cars, but did not attempt to
join the girls around them. When the cars were full
the remnant of the girls came back to the lorry, and
Maudie went and stood on the outskirts of the crowd.
“Hey, look who’s behind you!” Nellie Turner
whispered to her companion, who turned and grimaced
in Mfa’udie’s face and turned away again.
THE back of the lorry was of wood, very dusty and
dirty and splintery ; but once the children were
settled they were quite satisfied with their quarters,
and as the lorry started along the road burst into a
roar of exuberance that quite drowned the more
dignified efforts of the occupants of the cars. Maudie,
squeezed into a corner beside Nellie Turner, who had
at first protested indignantly, then accepted her fate
nonchalantly, was supremely happy. She clasped her
mug and smiled, looking from one to the other of
her companions and then out at the still, flat country
sailing past her, with its tree-stumps and occasional
dead grey stumps that raised themselves wearily and
pointed bare, accusing limbs into the sky. In the
grass by the roadside there were dandelions, which, in
Maudie’s mind, dwarfed the magnificence of the red
geranium growing by the back steps of her home.
She pointed to the dandelions and said to Nellie:
“The flowers are pretty, aren’t they?”
Nellie looked from the flowers to Maudie, then
roared with laughter. “They’re not flowers, they’re
dandelions,” she said, then turned to her companions
“Did you hear that?” she inquired. “Maudie thinks
that dandelions are flowers.”
For the first time Maudie did not join in the
laughter against herself. Her mouth trembled and
tears sprang into her eyes.
“Look out!” jeered one of the boys. “She’s going
to cry.”
“I’m not,” cried Maudie fiercely, gulping and
bursting into unnatural laughter. Then she turned
her face away from them and pretended to be watch-
ing something a long way off.
There was a belt of timber near the river and
a grass flat on the right-hand side of the bridge on
to which the lorry ran and pulled up with a jerk. The
cars had already arrived, and groups of orderly little
girls stood around them, while Mrs. Wilson and the
bank manager’s wife held their parasols over the
basket of sandwiches and two kerosene-tins of buttered
buns to shield them from the sun. Mr. Wilson and
a male assistant struggled valiantly with a piece of
canvas which they were attempting to make into a
shelter for the foodstuffs. Maudie, watching the
proceedings, had the feeling that Mrs. Wilson would
have liked to displace Mr. Wilson, and she felt some-
how, too, that Mr. Wilson knew it.
/'’’NNE of the most exciting parts of the day was the
races. Maudie watched the events of the younger
children with absorbed attention, clapping when a
kiddy, red of face and short of breath, panted on to
the string across the track which marked the end of
the race, and feeling a deep sorrow when a straggler,
left hopelessly in the rear, gave up the effort and went
sheepishly to the side of the track. Once a five-year-
old dropped out near where Maudie stood and sank
on to the grass. Maudie saw the tears trickling down
the pink cheeks, and in an instant was beside the mite.
“There, there, lovey,” she comforted, wiping the
tears with her own large handkerchief, when Mrs.
Wilson bore down on the pair of them and took the
little girl away.
Maudie entered for the ten-years-and-under race.
The prize was to be sixpence, a very bright new six-
pence. Mr. Wilson had shown it to the girls as they
had clamored round to have their names put down
for the race. Maudie thought of the coin as she stood
on the end of the line, one foot a little forward, wait-
ing for the whistle to blow. Sixpence was a lot of
money ; you could buy a number of things with it —
a new pencil for school, a little notebook, a_ rubber
too, and perhaps aniseed balls; then there would be the
joy of just holding such a bright thing in your hand.
The whistle blew, sharply and shrilly, scattering
her thoughts and sending her almost automatically
forward. Maudie laughed in the first jumble of the
race when every girl seemed bumping against her
neighbors, then felt a surge of triumph as she swept
out ahead of the others. It seemed as if the silver
sixpence had grown very big and was suspended in
the air above the string barrier. There was someone
close behind her. She could hear a rival’s panting breath
and heavy footfalls, and laughe 1 again, knowing that
her own breath was even and her steps were light.
Maudie touched the string a fraction of a second
before Jeannie Walsh. It was so close that people
a little distance away could not be sure who got there
first. Maudie ran on the side where Mr. Wilson held
the string, Jeannie on the side where Mrs. Wilson was.
“Bravo. Jeannie!” said Mrs. Wilson, not looking
at Maudie. “Henry, give Jeannie the sixpence.”
Maudie had been looking expectantly at Mr.
Wilson. She now turned to his wife. Mrs. Wilson
met her surprised look coldly.
"Who won?” asked Mrs. Thomas, a large, affable
woman, as she came towards the group.
“1 did,” said Maudie firmly.
“1 did,” said Jeannie just as firmly.
“Jeannie did,” said Mrs. Wilson briskly. “Give
her the money, Henry.”
Maudie choked and raised her hands in a gesture
of sudden, impotent rage. Hot words rushed "to her
tongue but, before she could say them, slipped away
again so that she made only thick, angry noises in
her throat. A fierce hate for them all gripped her ;
for Mrs. Wilson, big, capable and managing; for
Mr. Wilson, slim, sensitive and manageable ; for Mrs.
Thomas, cloaking her weakness and laziness in ever-
lasting affability; for pasty-faced Jeannie Walsh.
“I won the race,” she muttered, and started to
cry.
Mrs. Wilson and Mrs. Thomas moved away,
taking Jeannie with them, while Mr. Wilson went
to superintend the next race.
“f’ve tried to help that child,” Mrs. Wilson’s voice
came back to Maudie, “but she is such a liar”
UNCH was composed of egg-and-lettuce sand-
wiches, cakes of the solid, rockcake variety, and,
wonder of all wonders, ice-cream that had long since
given up all pretence of being frozen, but was very
delightful just the same. There was the raspberry,
too, lukewarm and very undecided as to color, but
still raspberry.
It was queer, thought Maudie a little later in
the afternoon as she wandered along by the creek-
bank, how being black made you so different from the
other little girls. Surely you felt the same. You
loved to play the same, you loved to run and skip
and jump the same ; and yet in some incomprehen-
sible way you were different. Of course, your mother
and father lived in a tumbledown hut on the out-
skirts of the town, whereas most of the white people
had neatly-painted weatherboard houses and neat
rows of pale-green lettuces in their back gardens,
which stamped their owners as being people of class
and culture, like the Walshes at the Post Office and
the Bryants at the butcher’s.
It was quite pleasant by the creek-bank, shady
and with a queer reedy smell which Maudie sniffed
at and appreciated very much. Water was sadly
lacking in the creek itself, but there were odd deep
pools in which Maudie could see her own face in a
background of sky and cloud. Then there were the
reedy shallows and stretches of dry, dirty-looking
sand. The “Rocks” themselves were unimposing, and
lay in a low scattered cluster. When there was a
flood they were covered with water, but now they
were quite dry. Maudie climbed about them, once
slipping and grazing her knee, another time cutting her
hand, but she enjoyed the scramble, and had a sensa-
tion of delight as she sprang from one to the other.
On top of the tallest rock she stood for a minute.
She felt very big and strong standing there ; big as
the whole world and strong like the mountains. Much
bigger and stronger than Mrs. Wilson and puny, pasty-
faced Jeannie Walsh. She laughed excitedly. She
was bigger and she was stronger. She felt
herself growing and the strength pulsating into
her limbs —making her feel like a princess. A prin-
cess! Again she laughed and clapped her hands. She
sprang from the rock on to a smaller one, then back
again, turning with agility on her precarious perch,
and gave a loud, clear call.
A shout of laughter brought her back to earth.
“Look at Maudie doing a war-dance!” yelled
Nellie Turner.
“Where’s your war-paint, Maudie?”
“Would you like a boomerang, Maudie?”
“You’re a tiresome child,” said Mrs. Wilson.
“Who told you to stray away by yourself and cause
everyone worry? Come down from there at once!”
Maudie looked at them all in consternation. It
hurt her to think she had caused them worry. It
made her feel little and silly again, and more inferior
than ever.
“Come down!” snapped Mrs. Wilson. “What-
ever were you doing?”
Maudie came down and felt that an explanation
was needed. Without thinking, she said: “I was being
a princess.”
Even Mrs. Wilson laughed at that.
“Poor Maudie!” she derided. “What a hopeless
child you are!”
'T' HERE was a part of Maudie’s nature that was
quite unquenchable. By the time the lorry and
cars were ready to start for home she was happy
again. She sat quietly as the lorry bumped along,
munching the boiled lollies each child had had
measured out into their mugs before they left the
picnic ground.
The children were unloaded at the Parish Hall.
As Maudie started for home Mrs. Wilson was talking
to the new bank manager’s wife.
“You must join us on the Foreign Missions Com-
mittee,” Mrs. Wilson said. “There is so much work
waiting to be done abroad, and, alas! so few to
do it.”
They sighed together, and Maudie went off alone
into the gathering dusk, her clumsily-shod feet making
clip-clap sounds on the stony pavement.


A Gir l—and Her Brother
Ham
By
ALAN HILL
ILLUSTRATED BY LOCK .
THE last stroke of six o’clock
clanged from the Post Office
tower. Tea was finished, and
quiet brooded over the water-
front. As Mr. Wilson, mate of the
freighter Hannah Morton, turned
his back on the ship and stepped
briskly along the wharf, five heads,
belonging to various members of
the crew, craned over the bul-
warks and stared after the retreat-
ing figure of their chief officer.
Mr. Wilson was arrayed “to
kill.” Well-pressed blue suit,
gleaming patent - leather shoes,
bowler and a cane! For one who
rarely went ashore in the ship’s
home port, the mate was, on this
occasion, a source of speculative
wonder to his underlings.
“Get a line on th’ ‘dorg-
walloper,’ ” said George Ablett.
‘An’ th’ boxer ’at,” contributed
the bos’n.
“Wot abaht that spotted tie?”
inquired Chunk Doran.
“T’ say nothin’ o’ th’ gravy-
colored shirt!” the cook con-
cluded.
The subject of the crew’s
appraisal cleared the wharf and
walked smartly along the road,
jauntily swinging his cane as he
hummed a ballad popular some
fifteen years before. He did not
have to walk far, however, his
destination being a ham, beef and
smallgoods store a quarter of a
mile from the ship. Gently
Mr. Wilson insinuated his burly
frame through the flyproof door, easing it shut
as though it were made of piate-glass. Bashfully he
approached the counter.
“Good evening, Mr. Wilson. The usual pound
of ham?” The lady behind the counter flashed a
dazzling smile at the blushing Wallace.
“Ah!” gulped the mate of the Hannah Morton.
How deftly she took the large ham from its
pedestal in the window! Enraptured, Mr. Wilson
watched the swift, graceful play of her hands as she
sliced ; how the little finger of one hand poised daintily
erect as she wielded the carving-fork. The spotless-
ness of her starched apron; her trim figure; her
arms, soft and rounded, bared to the dimpled elbows;
her golden hair, glinting under the harsh electric light.
It may as well be admitted here and now that
Mr. Wilson was in love. To another, maybe, Maisie
Green, assistant at Finche’s Smallgoods Emporium
and Milk Bar, may have appeared a shade on the
buxom, or even hefty, side. To Mr. Wilson, she was
simply “well built.” To a more discriminating observer
her peroxided curls might have seemed the result
of art. To the infatuated Mr. Wilson they were
naturally golden ringlets.
“My!” said the charmer, “you do get through
some ham! This is the seventh pound you’ve had
in a week. A pound a night, regular as clockwork!”
“I —I like ham ; it agrees with me.”
She passed over the neatly-wrapped package
Mr. Wilson’s eye glinted and his jaw set in a do-or-die
line as he took the plunge. He squeezed her hand —
and dropped the ham.
With downcast eyes and pink suffusing her
cheeks, the lady allowed her hand to linger in the
mariner’s horny palm for an instant, then withdrew it.
“It’s on the floor,” she said, indicating the ham.
Mr. Wilson stooped, with a creaking of braces,
and retrieved his purchase.
“Miss Green —Maisie!” he said boldly. “Will
you come to the p-pictures? You knock off at half-
past seven.”
“Good oh, Wally! ” Miss Green assented coyly.
“You’ll have to wait outside the shop for me, though.
Mrs. Finche mightn’t like me having callers. And
the ham comes to two and six.”
“I’ll wait, all right!” said Mr. Wilson gallantly,
paid up and left the shop. Five minutes later a sur-
prised Irish terrier trotted home with a tidily-wrapped
pound of ham.
IN the best seats at the Magnificent, helped by a
large box of chocolates, they sat out the heart-tear-
ings of the glutinous “She Died for Love.” And they
held hands in the gloom.
“Isn’t it too marvellous?” whispered Maisie as
hero and heroine clinched in a final fade-out.
“What’s marvellous?”
“Love!” she sighed.
Thus encouraged, Mr. Wilson essayed a peck in
the darkness. He missed and nearly overbalanced.
“Wally, you mustn’t! Think of my reputation!”
feebly protested Miss Green.
But Mr. Wilson was unused to cinema technique.
“All right, I’m sorry. I lost my head!” he said
despondently.
After the show they had supper at a quiet tea-
room. Half-way through Wallace Wilson plucked up
courage for the semi-final leap. “Maisie, I know this
isn’t quite the time or place, but there’s something I
want to tell you.”
Miss Green bowed her head over her plate of
buttered toast.
“The ship sails to-morrow afternoon, so I won’t
be seeing you for six weeks. I’m not going to rush
you off your feet, my girl; but you must know by
this what I think of you. When I get back I’m going
to ask you a very important question. Can you guess
what it will be?”
“Y-ves, Wally!”
“Then can you give a man any hope, Maisie?”
pleaded Mr. Wilson. “What is your answer likely
to be?”
Miss Green lifted her starry eyes from her plate.
“Can’t —can’t you guess, Wally dear?”
Mr. Wilson’s heart bounded, and the table legs
on his side lifted two inches from the floor as he
made a convulsive movement.
“Wait, Wally—not here! ” said Miss Green
hastily. “When you get back again, Wally! Your
tea’s getting cold!”
Miss Green kept a brake on her lover’s ardor.
She was gentle but firm ; she even refused to allow
him to see her home. Archly, she said that she did
not trust him to behave ; and Mr. Wilson grinned and
felt brutal in his masculine strength.
They just missed a tram and had a ten minutes’
wait for the next.
“It doesn’t matter, Wally; it gives me all the
longer with you,” said the lady. “And there’s some-
thing I want to ask you now.”
“Go ahead, my girl.”
“Well, you remember you told me the other
night that you were a man short in the crew on
account of sending a sailor to the hospital with
appendicitis, and that he’d have to miss the trip and
rejoin next voyage?”
“That’s right; I’ll pick up a man at the shipping
office to-morrow morning. There’s plenty available.”
“Listen, Wally; how about giving my brother a
chance? He’s an A. 8., you know; paid off the Man-
resa four months ago and hasn’t had a job since. I
know that it would be only for a trip, but it will
help.”
“Oh,” said the mate thoughtfully.
“I worry so over him, poor Bert! But if you
can’t, well you can’t, that’s all!” She drew a tiny
handkerchief from her bag and furtively dabbed an
eye.
“Here, who said I can’t?” demanded Mr. Wilson.
“Tell him to report aboard at quarter to eight to-
morrow morning. If his papers
are all right I’ll have him signed
on. I pick the crew, you know.”
“Oh! Thank you, Wally!
Look, here’s my tram.”
Something light as a butterfly’s
wing brushed Mr. Wilson’s ear as
the tram ground to a stop. A
wave of Midnight in Cairo per-
fume engulfed him. Agape, he
stood on the footpath and saw her
hand flutter as the car moved off.
In a daze Mr. Wilson made his
way back to the Hannah Morton.
PROMPTLY at quarter to eight
1 the next morning Albert
Green reported to the mate
of the Hannah Morton for duty.
As Mr. Wilson looked him
over he was struck by the total
lack of family resemblance be-
tween Albert and Maisie Green.
Albert’s appearance was rather un-
prepossessing ; undersized and
weedy, with a cunning, weasel-like
face, he was the direct antithesis of
the blooming Maisie of ample
charms. Still, his papers and last
discharge were in order, and Mr.
Wilson handed the new A.B. over
to Joseph Mivvins, the bos’n, with
instructions for Green to be at the
shipping office at eleven o’clock to
sign on.
Mivvins led the way to the
deserted fo’c’sie. The bos’n was
a trifle terse, for he had earmarked
the vacancy for his own nephew.
“ ’Ere y’are,” he said gruffly.
“Sling y’ dunnage onter one o’ them empty bunks
an’ turn-to soon as y’ change inter yer workin’
gear. By the way, ow’ did you ’ear o’ a job goin’
on this ’ooker?”
“Through me sister,” answered Albert easily.
“Wilson, th’ mate, ’e’s sweet on ’er; wants t’ marry
’er.”
“Ho! ” said the bo’sn ; “so that accounts fer ’is
goin’ around done hup like a sore thumb. ’Ere, what
(Tyou think y’ doin’, anyway?”
Albert Green was stripping the bedding from a
comfortable upper berth.
“This one looks about the best,” he said calmly.
“Yes, I’ll ’ave this bunk.”
“Ho! Will y’?” said the bos’n nastily. “You’re
certainly startin’ orf on th’ wrong foot ’ere, me lad.
That bunk ’appens to be mine.”
Albert Green paused in the transferring of an
armful of blankets to a lower bunk. Albert had
been a bos’n and was a downy bird.
“If I was to tell Wally—me future brother-in-
law, 1 mean —about that paint yer peddled the other
day”
Joseph Mivvins paled.
“Never mind —I was only jokin’,” he said hastily.
“O’ course y’ can ’ave that bunk!”
As Albert fished his own blankets from his sea-
bag Mivvins resumed. “I wouldn’t mention it t’
th’ mate, Albert —about that paint, y’ know; ’e’s
an ’asty man, and ’e mightn’t reelise that it was reelly
mine. I saved it—pot scrapin’s, an’ so on.”
“Of course,” answered Albert heavily. “O.K.
I’ll say nothin’; but you lay off me, see? No workin -
up or any o’ them tricks.”
“I’ll treat y’ right, Albert; come on deck an
meet th’ boys.”
Joseph Mivvins was not the only one imposed
on among the Hannah Morton’s foremast crowd.
Naturally, all hands wanted to stand in well with the
mate, and Albert certainly had a pull with the chief
officer —and proved it on more than one occasion
when soft jobs were allotted. Therefore, the fo’csle
put up with his work-dodging, borrowing of shillings
and tobacco and general high-handedness, and com-
forted itself with the thought that it was only for a
few weeks, anyhow. Albert would be with them
for one trip, and the mate, like the poor, was always
there ; and the mate could make matters very uncom-
fortable if he wished.
Albert was astute enough to try to create a good
impression when the captain or officers were about—
with the exception of Mr. Wilson. He did not matter.
He held no terrors for Albert, though at times
when he called the mate “Wal, old man,” Albert


dogs to fight, cats to chase, the moon to bark at,
scents to be trailed, the streets to gambol in, bones
to be buried —it was the only life.
“I’ll do it,” he said thickly.
“You spoke!” exclaimed Zercus. “Dash it, the
stuff’s working off, after all!”
It was, and rapidly. The fur went first; Gam-
brell shivered in the night wind from the window ;
Zercus gave him a pyjama suit to wear. The tail
shrank to nothing, the ears moulted and flattened to
the head, fingers replaced paws. Within half an hour
Gambrell was again wholly human. And, as he lost
his animal attributes, a sense of emotional loss, of
some vanishing paradise, seemed to afflict his soul.
Zercus became actively practical. He wrapped
Gambrell in an overcoat and shepherded him to the
garage. “I’ll drive you home. Sneak in a window
when you get there ; tell your wife you’ve been work-
ing in your lab. all night. Hide those pyjamas and
overcoat —I’ll get ’em later. Why, you can’t go
wrong!”
FA AWN was breaking as Zercus dropped Gambrell,
a block from his house. Gambrell found the
open bathroom window as he had left it; but entry
was impossible. It was above his reach. He had
cleared it in a bound earlier; but, as he recollected with
a queer regret, he was a glorious semi-animal then.
The ladder was in the laundry, but that was locked.
“Better get it over at once,” he muttered. He
went to the front door and rang persistently at the
bell.
It was even worse than he expected.
Crawling home with the milk!” shouted Mrs.
Gambrell. A nice sight at this hour of the morning!
Loading me up with a cock-and-bull story of research
work and you gallivanting about after sneaking out
on the quiet, probably to some flat or night club!”
She caught sight of his attire ; her eyes started from
her head, then she became ominously calm. “Whose
—are —those—pyjamas? ”
“I—l can explain” began Gambrell feebly.
4 You can not! I don’t want to hear any more!
I’ve done with you for ever ; I’m ’phoning mother;
I’m leaving to-day! The evidence is clear enough.
How can you stand there and look me in the face,
you bald-headed deceiver, you elderly Lothario? Oh,
you gay dog, you!”
Gay dog! In a flash Gambrell’s dreary life
passed before him —his lonely childhood, university
scholarships, science degree, senseless marriage, miser-
able earnings, nagging wife, mounting debts, the
whole futility, set in a brick box in a builder’s slum
with a mortgage over it.
But just over the human borderline beckoned a
carefree existence—free food and a kennel, petting,
glorious dogfights and palships, a world of scents and
trails, of gambolling, cat-chasing, moon-barking and
bones. Why hesitate? There was a supply of extract
in his den enough for a permanent transformation.
“Let me pass, please!” he shouted.
“What are you going to get?” snapped his wife.
“Release!”
“Good! I’ve had a dog’s life up till now”
“I’ll have a dog’s life for ever after!”
was nearer to being thrown over the side than
he realised. But Mr. Wilson thought hard of Maisie,
breathed heavily through his nose, and, unclenching
his fists, would stamp away muttering.
From Mr. Wilson Albert “borrowed” money and
sundries. No one, including the bos’n, was more
relieved than the mate of the Hannah Morton when
the ship tied up at her home port after what had
been for him the most trying trip in a long career.
But he had borne it all for Maisie’s sake.
A T midday the crew paid off, Albert Green with
them. Tea-time came and went, and Mr. Wilson,
once again arrayed in go-ashore finery, made tracks
for Finche’s Smallgoods Emporium and Milk Bar
to receive his answer, though in Mr. Wilson’s mind
that answer was a foregone conclusion.
“No, mister,” said Mrs. Finche, who was serving
in the shop. “She’s not ’ere now, she’s gorn. Left
last week an’ started up on ’er own out at Bexford,
up the line, y’know.”
“Can you let me have her address?” asked Mr.
Wilson eagerly.
“Yes. It’s easy to find—right opposite the station.
Me ’usband gave ’er a ’and to fix things up. Good
girl was Maisie, an’ I was sorry to lose 'er. I ’opes
she does well.”
In record time Mr. Wilson reached Central, only
to have a dreary and impatient wait for a train, then
a run of twenty minutes before he was set down at
Bexford.
In the street outside the station Mr. Wilson looked
about him, and he did not have far to seek. Right
in front of the station entrance stood “Green’s Pro-
vision Store,” brave in its show of new paint, gleam-
ing glass and a windowful of smallgoods.
“Smart girl!” murmured Mr. Wilson. “Good
pitch, too. About time I gave up the sea, anyway,
and settled down. We’ll have that sign altered to
‘Wilson’s Provision Stores,’ or maybe just ‘Wilson’s,’
like the smart shops in town.”
He crossed the road and entered the shop. A
bell tingled as he opened the wire-screen door. And
then Maisie rose from her seat behind the counter
and stood framed in glass and enamel.
“Good evening, Mr. Wilson,” she smiled. “Have
a good trip? The usual, I suppose—a pound of
ham?”
Just like old times!
She moved to the refrigerator, and Mr. Wilson
found his voice.
“Maisie! My word! This is a surprise! ”
“How do you like it?” queried Maisie, deftly
transferring sliced ham to the glittering scales. “That
will be three shillings, please.”
Businesslike little woman! Smiling tolerantly at
Maisie’s little joke, Mr. Wilson laid two florins
on the rubber change mat, took his parcel and a
shilling.
“It’s just splendid, my girl ; just splendid! You
have got a business head on your shoulders! Brains
as well as beauty, eh? Ha, ha!”
The proprietress simpered.
“Well, dear, I’ve called for my answer,” said
Mr. Wilson, fiddling with his cane. “What is it to
be?”
Maisie toyed with the keys of the brand-new cash
register. “I’ve had my eye on this place for a long
time, Mr. Wilson ; been saving like anything. And
with Bert getting six weeks’ work on your ship, every-
thing was fixed. We paid the balance of the purchase
money this afternoon; Bert drew close on thirty
pound, with his overtime, and it just cut out nicely.”
Mr. Wilson frowned. So that worm of a brother
of hers had an interest in the business, had he? Well,
once they were married Albert would have to mind
his p’s and q’s. Wallace Wilson, smallgoods pur-
veyor, would be a totally different proposition from the
former mate of the Hannah Morton! Mr. Wilson
forecast squally times ahead for Albert.
“Yes,” resumed Maisie, now polishing a spot-
less showcase. “Ever since me and Bert’s been mar-
ried we’ve planned to have a shop of our own so as
Bert needn’t go to sea!”
“Eh?” yelped Mr. Wilson.
“Oh, yes,” said Maisie Green, a shade nervously,
“my husband —here, Bert, there’s a friend of yours
come to see the new shop!”
The white-jacketed, grinning Albert Green, late
A.B. of the Hannah Morton, appeared in the door-
way behind the counter. But when he caught a
glimpse of the look on Mr. Wilson’s face the grin
disappeared—and so did Albert. He shot through
that doorway like a rabbit into its burrow.
Grinding his teeth, Mr. Wilson slammed the
package of ham down on the counter-top.
'T' HE steward of the Hannah Morton was an ex-
* tremely puzzled man next morning when, after
he had offered the mate a special dish, a plate of
ham and eggs, Mr. Wilson swore horribly and strode
from the saloon.
Albert Green was nearer to being thrown over the side than he realised.


in intrigues with barmaids and shopgirls, and at the
height of his career he carried on a liaison with the
wife of a member of his own party who was for a
time his go-between with the British Government.
He had three children by her before the husband took
steps to get a divorce.
While a national figure, he was in the habit of
making trips to Brighton with the lady, disguising
himself from the local inhabitants with absurdities of
costume which would be scarcely believable in the
novels of Dumas.
Looking back on the history of the Land League
and Gladstonian Home Rule, it must be admitted that
Parnell was the central figure, but his performance
was rather one of procedure than of constructive
statesmanship. Not he but Michael Davitt was the
father of the League. His essays in action did his
party more harm than good in England. As the
inventor of obstruction, as practised in modern Par-
liaments, he drove his leader, Isaac Butt, to plead
with him to' maintain the dignity of the Irish nation:
That will only be done while we respect ourselves
and our duties to the assembly of which we are
members —an assembly to degrade which is to strike
a blow at representative institutions a blow that
will recoil with terrible severity on the very claims
which we make for our own country.
Parnell hated the English too much to “connive”
at the smooth running of the Commons, but few
took the effects of his work seriously. Even the head
of the Clan-na-Gael thought it futile to expect that
Ireland could be freed by “keeping the House of
Commons out of bed.”
Butt fell; indeed, most of those who came into
conflict with Parnell suffered, although events were
usually in their favor. The “Times” was willing to
believe, on the “evidence” of a hack journalist, proved
a common forger, that he had been behind the
Phoenix Park murders and other crimes of violence.
It felt the effects of its folly for a generation. The
Whig section of the Liberals was alienated by their
association with him ; the radical element by their
treatment of him after the divorce.
And for all his cold hauteur, his neglect of con-
ventions and his occasional unbalance of mind, it is
symptomatic of the influence which his personality
always exerted that biographers as late as Miss Haslip
stress the enormity of Gladstone’s method of dealing
with him and the contemptible character of Captain
O’Shea rather than Parnell’s own faults.
There is no doubt that the man had a genius
for leadership, an unusual charm when he cared to
exercise it—it caught even Gladstone’s daughter in
his adversity—and a faculty of crystallising in simple
language the resentments and the aspirations of the
Irish, and of finding common ground on which his
much-divided countrymen could meet.
More English than Irish in race and equipment,
he was a true Irish patriot.
EL V.
In China Yesterday.
Son of Han, by Richard La Piere (Heinemann ;
Angus and Robertson; 7s. 6d.), is a first novel, but
it has a beauty and delicacy that lack nothing in
maturity. It is set in China hundreds of years ago,
but the time element scarcely enters into the story.
Only here and there, by a light touch, the book is
thrown into perspective—our perspective—and the
reader has the feeling of a great wheel turning slowly
and inexorably. One thread alone connects the world
of ancient China with the Western world, the coming
of the Jesuits, “the Ocean Men,” as they are called.
But they were hardly men. Each had a long, high
beaklike nose which dominated all the rest of his face.
And their eyes were small and pale and sunken deep
into the skull. They seemed entirely sightless
The Ocean Men went slowly down the street, tall
figures which moved gracefully, their gowns swaying
with the slow rhythm of their feet “Do you think
they are human beings?” Te-Lin asked when the
Ocean Men were out of sight.
The story is the life of Han Te-Lin from his
birth, through the formative years to his marriage and
the birth of his first child. It is made up of every-
day events: Te-Lin’s education, his youthful friend-
ship for Yu cemented into a ceremonial brotherhood,
his love for his cousin Black Jade, delicately suggested
rather than told, his marriage to Autumn Joy, his
father’s death, the birth of his son. At first it seems
slight, but the book burgeons with the boy’s life and
wins its way with a gentle persistence. Its slightness
is backed up by a sensitive understanding.
Son of Han presents, but does not exploit, the
Chinese attitude to life. Here is no easy and brittle
decor for the amusement of bored Western minds, but
rather an attempt to understand and portray in terms
of understanding the ways of an ancient civilisation.
The underlying theme of the book is ritual —“Con-
fucian rituals, based upon the assumption that the
movements which the body makes determine the
emotions of the heart.”
For every event in Chinese life from birth to
death there is a prescribed form of conduct and of
words. Life is shown in this translucent shell of
ritual. It was a discipline, a support and an obstruc-
tion. It required of everyone a self-control that was
in itself an education, it gave life form and dignity,
putting all its important occasions beyond the reach
of awkwardness and ugliness, and it set chafing and
unreasonable restrictions on conduct and thought.
Te-Lin was marked out by his father’s ambition
to be a scholar; his mind was subjected to an educa-
tion as disciplining as the bandages wound round a
little girl’s feet. Within its narrow limits the system
demanded perfection. When he dropped a blot upon
his examination-paper he was disqualified. When he
was prepared to sit for his examination a second
time another set of rules intervened. He had an
obligation to his ceremonial brother; it belonged
to the ritual of honor and took precedence over the
examination. A third time Te-Lin prepared himself,
and then it was the death of his father that prevented
him sitting. He cries:
“The rituals are my chain. A filial son mourns his
father. A son who mourns does not leave his home
to take examinations, the examinations which his father
wished him to pass I must beat my head against the
ground. That is the ritual and that is all I ever do.”
He rebels ; life cannot be lived as a sonnet is
written. Ritual covers with decency the thin places
of life, but it breaks down before real emotion —it
cannot carry it.
“If a man wails loudly enough people will know that
he has been bereaved and that he suffers from remorse.
And if he wails long enough he will eventually suffer
the anguish which his tears have shown. Confucius had
explained it thus. But what if a man is already tortured
with grief, harassed by remorse? What then are the
tears? What need is there for them?”
It is the old battle between life and living stated
in new terms. It is none the less real for that. A
subtly-linked chain of Nemesis gives the story back-
bone. Son of Han has both sweetness and depth.
The prose is good. The characters are real and sym-
pathetic. The book’s form is romantic, its subject-
matter classical.
Pictures from Provence.
In Interval Before Birth (Heinemann ; 7s. 6d.),
a tale of Provence, N. S. Leitch shows himself a close
observer and a writer of sensitive prose. He catches
always the significant, illuminating detail, and never
fails to hit on the right word or phrase with which
to convey it to the reader. The second adjective in
the following, for instance, has the echoing intona-
tions of a bell.
After the marsh they came to a stretch of salty-
looking grass where a flock of sheep were wander-
ing The shepherdess called out a greeting to them,
and her voice was joined by the despairing voices of
the sheep.
Here is a description of a village scene at mid-
morning, the gossip hour. Implicit in its simplicity
is the writer’s faith in the inherent interest of life ;
that its quality runs through small things as well as
great. The image evoked in the last sentence is a
particularly effective one:
A horse and cart came along the street laden with
faggots of brushwood for a baker’s oven; the horse
snorted unhappily, feeling itself hemmed in, and the
brushwood scraped the walls on either side with a noise
of sweeping brooms. The people in the street hurried
into doorways to let the cart pass by, and called to
each other across the street as though they had sud-
denly been marooned by a flood.
This depicts a little cottage merrymaking when
news of the son, Gilles, who is in a distant part of the
country, is brought by a wandering farm hand. The
two opening sentences —disregarding the pious senti-
ments, which are wholly incidental have scrip-
tural clarity and dignity. In the middle part the
words seem to pick up the rhythm of their subject.
Dominique and Fransoise are the father and mother
of Gilles :
Dominique poured out the wine. “Thanks be to God
for His goodness,” he said, and they drank happily.
“That is a dress to dance the farandole,” said Fran-
soise, looking at Honorine and then at Cesar, and she
put back her head and began to sing. Her voice was
shrill, and the words beat out the rhythm of a dance,
hurried, then ceremonially deliberate, and she clapped
her hands in time. Dominique clapped too, and filled
his glass, while Honorine jumped up and stood in the
middle of the floor holding out her hands to Cesar, who
came without speaking and took his place in front of
her. They danced opposite each other, eyes watching
feet, not touching save for linked elbows when they
turned, and the plum-colored skirt swayed like a flower
in a languorous breeze. When the dance was over they
began again, clapping their hands at the turns, their
feet moving as precisely as goats’ feet on a narrow
path, their bodies buoyant as leaping salmon, hands and
eyes intent. Dominique and Franfoise watched them
in the firelight, proudly critical, and the steam from the
drying clothes made a mist over the window, a veil of
vapor against the night outside.
This tells of the homecoming of Gilles. Could a clearer
picture, more of life, truth and feeling, be put in
smaller compass or in more suitable words? :
“I have crossed the land, every inch of it,” he cried,
and felt his story crowding his brain and jostling to
be told. And now his adventures were better than when
he had lived them, now the wine was ready from the
grapes he had trodden in hardship. He looked at
the three faces waiting to hear his tale, and loved them
because he had something to give them.
Here, in a different vein, but still with the same
sense of life and language, is presented the quality
of the squint-eyed travelling tinker’s dealings with
the housewives of Calanques:
Monsieur Jean-Scholastique did not only mend the
holes in jour pots and pans or renew the tin in their
linings, but he cleaned and polished them, so that the
pan you received back from his hands had all the
lustre of newness combined with the familiar shape of a
trusted friend, and in your pleasure you paid him at
once without questioning the price. At the same time
the glance of his eye polished your idea of yourself,
so that you suddenly felt charming and desirable as he
looked at you, and you talked to him as freely and
gaily as you had talked to men when you were a young
girl. If both his eyes had looked at you the result
would not have been the same, but it was an apparent
conflict between the two that was exciting; in the eye
regarding you was all the eloquence of desire, but the
other, as though ruled by a conscience which forbade
the contemplation of forbidden fruit, was piteously
exiled to the ceiling, and thus you had the sensation of
assisting at a drama in the tinker’s soul, of which you
yourself were the cause.
The story of Interval Before Birth is a couple of
eternal triangles entwined like the letters in a mono-
gram. Madame Iseult Thomas, of the chateau, wife
of a busy, wealthy and absent husband, has an affair
with her handsome young boatman, Paul, who is
loved by Honorine, but whose only feeling for her is
desire. She is loved more truly by Cesar, the wan-
dering farm hand. Iseult’s daughter is in love with
her mother’s former lover, Leon, who has not yet
learned that he has fallen from favor and is still
living at the chateau. The life of the chateau is
coupled to that of the village through Iseult’s inten-
tion to build a swimming pool that will impede
the work of the fishermen. The story as a whole
is not quite of the same quality as much of its
detail. It lacks an imaginative fullness that would
make it deeply moving, but it is honest, intelligently
acceptable, and its course is strewn with passages,
like those quoted, to which the reader is inclined
to return for the sake of their remembered savor.
Reviewed Briefly.
FICTION . . .
Leisure for Living: Nelle M. Scanlan (Robert
Hale ; 7s. 6d.). A well-written story of an English
family settled in Maoriland. Like most of this writer’s
work, sophisticated in style without exploring any
depths.
The House by the Sea: Mrs. Belloc Lowndes
(Heinemann ; 7s. 6d.). Set in the French Riviera. A
tale of love and intrigue by a writer who rarely has
anything to say artistically, but who knows how to
weave a yarn and tell it in good English, and who,
for many readers, adds to its attractiveness by giving
in a high-society setting.
A Marriage of Vengeance: Julia Mowbray (Mel-
rose; 7s. 6d.). A tale of poetic justice with nothing
lacking. Margot, betrayed by Ivor, commits suicide.
Maurice, who loved her, swears revenge. He succeeds
beyond his wildest dreams and crowns his achievement
by marrying the girl Ivor really loved.
Not in Our Stars: Robert Eton (Ivor Nicholson
and Watson ; 7s. 6d.). How idealism and the com-
munity spirit rub thin under the wear and tear of daily
life. A group of “survivalists,” moved by a European
war scare, seek sanctuary on an island in mid-Atlantic.
They are glad in the end to be rescued by a passing
steamer. The writer, helped out by a sense of humor,
does his best for a threadbare subject.
The Affairs of Women: Davide Sernicoli (Mel-
rose ; 7s. 6d.). Elaine Powis, a rich and famous Eng-
lish airwoman, flying solo above the Sahara, sees
and rescues Amer Imram, who has been sent to almost
certain death through the spite of a Taureg girl.
Romantic complications ensue and are further com-
plicated through the appearance, later, of the debonair
Andre Labrant, who is Elaine’s real hope of happiness.
Frontier Fires: Victor Bayley (Robert Hale; 7s.
6d.). Peggy, daughter of the colonel of the 67th Sikhs,
is abducted by wild tribesmen. Prominent in the
stern pursuit among the Khyber Hills is Captain Dick
Campbell, with whom Peggy had previously exchanged
a word and a tender glance. The colonel gets his
daughter back and a son-in-law to boot. The Secret
Service and the Frontier Constabulary play their part.
Delicate Monster: Storm Jameson (Ivor Nichol-
son and Watson; 55.). A mother who has achieved
worldly success by rather cheap means and who has
had numerous love affairs becomes vindictive towards
a daughter who has other views of life. The portrait
of the “delicate monster” is well done, but the total
effect is marred by the writer’s somewhat ill-tempered
criticism of life in literary circles.
Treat Them Gently: F. E. Bailey (Collins ; 7s.
6d.). The little country girl, Marilyn, becomes a
typist in London and soon has four distinguished
suitors: an American business magnate, a duke, a
poet and a noted airman. She flies the Atlantic with
the last-named, but she marries poor Richard, the
poet. Hermione, the second heroine, gets the dis-
appointed duke on the rebound.
Froutera: Victor MacClure (Hodder and
Stoughton; 7s. 6d.). Jean Dalgairns, a newspaper
correspondent, is sent to Spain to get the feminine
angle on events there. Three times she is rescued
from danger by Juan, after which they fall in love.
Her experiences between times add little to what is
already known of the country and its condition.
The Magpie Rides: Tevis Miller (Master Thriller
Library; 7s. 6d.). A blend of Western and Treasure
Island. Desperadoes appear just as the discoverers
have unearthed the boodle. After many exciting ex-
periences, Helen Burke, the heroine, is gathered to
the bosom of a handsome cowboy.
A Curate in Bohemia: Norman Lindsay (T.
Werner Laurie; 7s. 6d.). The adventures of a young
clergyman among Melbourne artists and their models.
Farce and slapstick with an undertow of more or
less serious comment. Averaging two or more
laughs to a page. First published in 1912, A Curate
in Bohemia has lost nothing in the interval, but
has acquired a nostalgic charm, dealing as it does
with the days when beer was sixpence a bottle.
Black Gold: Jackson Cole (Cassell; 45.). Alamita
Basin is overrun by a criminal element when Lone
Wolf, the Texas Ranger, fearless and a deadshot with
a Colt, comes to town. Before he rides on the only
bad men left in Alamita are in the cemetery.
Green Hills Far Away: S. C. R. Booth (Cassell;
7s. 6d.). The story of Marthe, whose illegitimacy
caused her to be cast out of her village. She is
thrown from pillar to post, gets a job as barmaid
in another village and seems to be getting out of
her difficulties when she marries the local squire, but
bad luck dogs her to the end. Good in places;
very unconvincing in others.
Mr. and Mrs. North: Richard Lockbridge
(Michael Joseph; 7s. 6d.). American setting.
Sketches from the life of a young married couple.
The masculine is played off against the feminine to
the disadvantage generally, though not completely,
of the former. Amusing, but, like most “series,” a
trifle mechanical.


Winning Applause tvergwl
~jAe Gnnp/ete/y ilew 1937
ere
TE RR AFLANE
and best of all, we can afford it!”
MM
Illustrated: 1937 Super Terraplane saloon.
BIG Steps Ahead
® Applause for Comfort and Safety —Motorists applaud Terraplane’s useful
beauty . . . extra room! Widest seats, front and back, of any car in its class! Front
seat increased to 55 inches of solid comfort for three! Applause, too, for Terraplane’s
ALL STEEL body with seamless roof of solid steel. And hydraulic brakes, with
a RESERVE system always ready for use AUTOMATICALLY, from the same
brake pedal.
® Applause for Terraplane’s Driving Ease —You’ve never experienced such
responsiveness, such flexibility . . . and the lowered centre of gravity means still easier
steering and riding.
# Applause for Proved Performance and Endurance —Terraplane’s
performance and endurance proved in the most gruelling road event in the world . . .
the Nairobi-Rand Race .. . WON by a Hudson-built Terraplane! And proved
economy, too . . . certified after rigid tests under official supervision!
© Applause for EXTRA VALUE —This beautiful new 1937 Terraplane
gives you more for your money . . . more of everything you want in a motor car.
Arrange now for your trial drive . . . discover for yourself why it is winning such
enthusiastic applause!
SENSATIONAL
ECONOMY!
In the famous Los Angeles-
Yosemite Economy Run a stock
Terraplane Sedan, carrying 5
passengers and baggage, aver-
aged 24.91 miles per Imperial
gallon.
In numerous local tests by Motor-
ing Editors of Australian news-
papers, stock Terraplane models
achieved remarkable economy
mileages. With engines tuned,
not for economy, but for general
all-round performance, Terra-
planes averaged up to nearly
25 m.p.g. The lowest recorded
figures showed well over 20
m.p.g. despite severe acceleration
and hill-climbing tests over the
courses.
“DflUx,
.... ~ HUDSON
11 Tin. Wheelbase ... 96 and 101 Developed Horsepower.
N.S.W. DISTRIBUTORS:
DALGETY and COMPANY LIMITED
llncorporated in England!
136 PHILLIP STREET, SYDNEY
QUEENSLAND DISTRIBUTORS:
McINTOSH MOTORS PTY. LIMITED
Desmond Chambers
Adelaide Street, BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND
VICTORIAN DISTRIBUTORS:
NEAL'S MOTORS PTY. LTD.
140-144 Exhibition Street,
MELBOURNE, C.I.
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN DISTRIBUTORS:
MOTORS LIMITED
30-38 Flinders Street, ADELAIDE
(Also 145 Sawler Place, Adelaide)
WESTERN AUSTRALIAN DISTRIBUTORS:
MORTLOCK BROS. LTD.
914 Hay Street, PERTH
TASMANIAN DISTRIBUTORS:
H. C. HEATHORN & CO. LTD.
53-73 Bathurst Street, Brisbane Street,
HOBART LAUNCESTON
AUTHORISED
DEALERS AT ALL MAIN COUNTRY CENTRES
H. 9.60.


ROYAL
PURPLE.
PARA
m
w i :S:l ' '^'t'>\
£~* - ,Msixxm is-'?"'jsl- f^'N «,.
': • :
■ ■
■
kd wmmmm
~:;• •>' ...
illlll
Hi
: I ;
mSsai
lili!
lliiitiltil
£BB
m
?
.
mm ■■
MMM
■ i
■
mMIm
■
■-: ■: ,-; ■■■
Ills
H
;. .- -
' 111
H
HH
iili
1 Pi
E ’- . *-,.. - I
’ "' "is i : ' fr
wmmmM
m
mmmmmm
■ : i—wH
’ 7
■ •«. « M
ifll w
p | §|
:
H
Exterior View of Huge Storage Tanks at Seppeltsßeld,
y
'€4£


LAND IN SIGHT.
"The world honors Lansbury, the old lame Labor man, who has conducted a one-man mission to the Governments of Europe in the cause of peace.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: National Mutual Buildings, 91
King William Street, Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Saywell Buildings, 115 Lambton
Quay, Wellington.
London: 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London,
E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s, 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques .)
Posted Free to any address Overseas {British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 15s. 6d.;
3 months, Bs.
Posted Free to any address Overseas (Foreign):
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 25.; 3
months, 11s.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji, New
Hebrides and other places within the British
Empire, 2d. per copy. United Kingdom via France
or America, 2d. per copy. To all other places, 4d.
ENDING A SILLY QUARREL.
Already Mr. Neville Chamberlain’s performance
makes it appear that the retirement of Mr. Baldwin
was, if anything, belated. To Mr. Baldwin’s credit
it should be said that Britain’s new defence scheme,
and, implicit with it, acceptance of the patent fact
that the League of Nations was a dangerous mon-
strosity, better dead, was established foreign policy
before he stepped down.
Still, this change for the better was a result of
trial and failure rather than of wise statesmanship.
It might be written as doubtful whether, since the
days of Lord North, the Crown has had more blun-
dering advisers on foreign affairs than Mr. Baldwin
and Mr. Ramsay MacDonald. Certainly Mr. Baldwin
was heavily handicapped by the legacy of League obliga-
tions, but he survived the proved utter failure of the
League by more than a year without doing as much
to put British foreign policy on a sensible footing as
Mr. Chamberlain has managed in a matter of weeks.
It looks as if Britain now has a Prime Minister who
is the head of his Government.
No doubt the pleasant Chinese custom of saving
face has had a trifle to do with it. After the anti-
Italian feeling that was whipped up as part of the
means of trying to make the clumsy League machinery
work, a change of British leadership was needed to
make a change of face seem not too inconsistent or
distasteful. At any rate, the change from an awk-
ward, artificial pose of enmity towards a country that
had been a traditional friend is now well on the way.
There have been exchanges of “cordial messages”
between Mussolini and the British P.M., a new tone
has suddenly come over the cables touching on Anglo-
Italian relationship, and, in a word, Britain and Italy
are about to be friends again.
The last, of course, has not been heard of the
quarrel. Those who, for various reasons, have been
loudest performers in the anti-Italy orchestra have
still a little face-saving to accomplish on their own
account. That they are not likely to manage this as
graciously here as in the vicinity of Whitehall the
“S. M. Herald’s” leading article of August 4 can be
taken as evidence.
For reasons best known to itself —probably no
worse than its having shared the formerly widespread
delusion regarding the efficacy of the League
“Granny” has walloped the anti-Italy drum more
persistently than any other newspaper in Australia.
Therefore, “Granny” has a larger acreage of face to
save than anybody else, and the contortions are not
likely to be either a pleasant experience or a dignified
spectacle.
In such face-savings there are liable to be
evasions. Mr. Chamberlain, by changing the British
foreign-policy atmosphere—not towards Italy only, but
towards Germany and other countries —has certainly
made the resumption of old friendships possible, but
it is sheer face-saving to deny Mussolini his hand in
the matter. The “personal letter of friendship” sent
to Mussolini by Mr. Chamberlain this month was in
reply to Mussolini’s “cordial message” delivered on
July 27. This was apparently an outcome of a con-
versation between Mr. Chamberlain and Italy’s London
Ambassador. Alleged “barriers” against a friendly
understanding were easily overcome.
Other evidence has lately forced itself into the
cables supporting what all but the propaganda-
swallowers have been convinced of all along that
such enmity as Italy and Britain have displayed to-
wards each other has been wholly artificial; in Britain
whipped up partly to try to make the League of
Nations work and partly by parlor and other Com-
munists, and in Italy as the only retort available.
Since Mr. Chamberlain took office British complaint
over an Italian wireless station’s anti-Britain propa-
ganda was readily acknowledged by muffling the
station, and, later, a newspaper was punished for
lampooning Mr. Eden. These may be paltry matters,
but they are certainly signs of goodwill.
It would be too optimistic to expect any similar
action in sections of the British and Australian press.
Being “free,” it is a voluntary matter with them, and
to change over suddenly would mean turning a pretty
severe Catherine wheel. For this reason loadings
against Italy will continue for some little while yet.
There is a less amusing reason why misrepresen-
tation of that country and various others is likely to
continue. A large amount of foreign “news” and
writing in foreign books has had a Moscow bias.
Moscow is at its best in propaganda about
the only item in its creed that has been brought to a
successful pitch. The Fascist system, however poorly
it may seem to compare with our own, is unquestion-
ably an outcome of the Communists’ attempt to force
their system on the world at large ; also, it has acted
as a brake against Communism, and is therefore
abhorred. So it is not likely that the propaganda
against Germany and Italy will shut up overnight.
Still, Moscow was never so discredited as it
is to-day, and as it is daily becoming more discredited
its propagandists are unlikely to have again the free
innings they have had in the past few years. Even
just enough unbiased reporting to strike a balance
should be welcome after the welter that has been
made of the other sort; and, with the old British-
Italian friendship evidently assured and Mr. Chamber-
lain doing equally well with Anglo-German relations,
that much, at least, should soon be possible.
Mildura Has a Jubilee.
Toasts to the memory of Alfred Deakin are being
drunk in the Murray Valley. Deakin would have
been 81 on August 3 had he been spared to revisit
the scene of the first of his peaceful triumphs. Had
his life, so rich in achievement, closed when he was
30, he would have left, in the Mildura settlement, at
least one monument that will endure. And, unlike
most political monuments, it cost the country nothing.
It began to be built in 1884, when Deakin, then
only 28, went to North America to report for his
native Victoria on water conservation and irrigation.
In the U.S.A. he met the Chaffey brothers, Canadians
who had made a name for themselves in California as
irrigationists. As a result of his negotiations with the
Chaffeys, the Victorian Parliament passed the first
Irrigation Bill drafted in Australia. The measure
met with violent opposition. It was nicknamed the
Yankee Bill. One orator said that it was “born in
iniquity and was to be carried out in sin.”
The Chaffeys came to Australia with the promise
of a 20 years’ occupation license over 250,000 acres
on the Murray, and of a further 250,000 acres in con-
sideration of their financing irrigation works. The
land was the ordinary run of Murray Mallee as it
was in the middle ’eighties. It had been squatted on
by Frank Jenkin in 1846 and abandoned several
times. In 1880 the rabbits gave it its quietus as a pas-
toral property. By 1887, when the Chaffeys took
over, one Victorian agricultural writer described it as
a Sahara of hissing hot winds and red driving sand, a
howling, carrion-polluted wilderness strewn with the
bleached bones of sheep and cattle.
Despite the conditions, there were settlers enough
offering. The Chaffeys agreed to spend £300,000
on irrigation, to maintain roads and to have all the
plant for the enterprise made in Victoria. They were
to establish fruit-drying and -preserving works and to
build an agricultural college when there were 100
settlers.
They took possession exactly 50 years ago—the
jubilee is being celebrated in Mildura. Their company
was registered in September. But the difficulties were
great, and by 1891 the settlement was producing only
small packs of vine fruits of poor quality: 1600 cwt.
of raisins and 150 cwt. of currants. There was a
barrage of complaints: water charges were too high,
the covenants were not being kept, and so on. Dis-
satisfaction grew. Rates were not paid.
The black disaster of 1893 fell on Mildura. The
Chaffey concern went into liquidation.
In 1895 the Mildura Irrigation Trust was formed.
In consisted of six commissioners and two auditors,
elected by the occupiers of rateable land. The pro-
moters were to make all the works efficient by the
end of 1898 ; their general rights were preserved. But
next year a royal commission dealt them a fatal blow.
It reported that there had been grave errors in laying
out the settlement, that there had been “hopeless
financial management,” that “Messrs. Chaffey had but
little means.”
The settlement may be said to have been initiated
by persons who obtained the enormous concession of
dealing with 500,000 acres with capital amounting to
practically nothing. We are confirmed in that opinion
by the fact that the company borrowed £lO,OOO in its
first year.
Of £350,000 needed for the property, the public
had subscribed only £44,000. It says a lot for the
Chaffeys that they were game enough to go on.
Loans and grants tided Mildura over the bad
time. Land not disposed of, to the extent of 188,000
acres, reverted to the Crown. By 1900 such steady
progress had been made that the Mildura Shire Coun-
cil bound itself to pay any deficiency on working
costs of the Melbourne-Mildura railway for 10
years, plus 3j p.c. interest. At Federation the popu-
lation had grown to 3325. An export trade was be-
ginning. ...
George Chaffey went back to California, there
to become the father of the Imperial Valley Irrigation
Works. He died in 1932. William Benjamin Chaffey
remained in Mildura to become a fruitgrower, a
leader of the A.D.F.A. and an honored figure till his
death in 1926. The brothers lived to see their courage
and foresight justified, as was Deakin’s unflinching
faith through the settlement’s vicissitudes.
To-day there is no question about the position
of Mildura. It has a population of 20,000. In lay-
out, buildings and amenities it is a model for rura
cities. Many of the surrounding vineyards give their
holders substantial incomes off 20 acres. Off 60,000-
odd acres, the Mildura settlement produces 60 p.c.
of the Australian raisin pack, with 250,000 cases of
citrus fruit. Its output is worth £2,500,000 a year.
A week before the Mildura jubilee Alfred
Deakin’s old supporting organisation, the A.N.A.,
met in Melbourne to discuss erosion. Special refer-
ence was made to the Mallee, much of which, under
uneconomic farming and over-cropping and -stocking,
turning into desert. Commonwealth-wide inquiries
by royal commissions on the modern plan—cost,
£20,000 ; report in two years or so—were suggested,
The real need is for more Deakins and Chaffeys and
rnen like Elwood Mead. He had a vision of great
ribbons of lucerne paddocks along the Murray for the
fattening of lambs and steers.
Many of the millions which have gone on so-
called relief work would have paid dividends in the
hands of non-political, locally-managed developmen-
tal trusts like the pioneer one on the Murray.
Wars in China.
Japan’s previous wars with China were walkovers,
though nobody expected them to be such. When war
was first declared by the little island people on the
great shambling congeries of races known as China,
European observers counted the heads on both sides
and concluded that China would overwhelm its assail-
ant. Instead, the Manchu power collapsed like a
pricked bladder. Except for a naval battle in which
the Chinese admiral showed remarkable heroism in
sailing his flagship after the entire Japanese armada,
there was soon no hitting because there was nothing
to hit at.
It was the rebel successes against the Manchus
and the conservative regime which hung on to the
loaves and fishes after the Manchus had departed
which heartened the Chinese. Most of these successes
were gained, not on the field of battle, but in the
shops and markets, and were organised by under-
graduates and schoolboys. So was the subsequent
boycott of Japanese goods.
A tradition never dies; it only adapts itself to
changing circumstances. When Generalissimo Chiang
Kai-shek was kidnapped by a northern general it
would have been supposed that the dictator’s reign
was finished. But Chiang used intellectual arguments ;
his captor found them reasonable ; they became fast
friends; Chiang was released, and nobody thought
anything more about it.
The Chinese idea is never to resist when resist-
ance is useless. A crowd of students charged up a
street in Shanghai and found themselves being fired
on by British soldiers. Then a remarkable thing
happened. The students disappeared ; but when the
smoke cleared it was found they were all kneeling
on the ground supplicating their opponents to be
merciful. It is innate in the Chinese not to rush the
boats in a crisis; but this does not prevent them, if
they can’t get round an obstacle one way, from trying
to get round it in another.
It is this quality of passive resistance and patience
which the Japanese have to reckon with. When the
Japanese attacked Chapei, it was not in the Chinese
tradition to batter themselves to pieces in defence
of their honor, though it would be in the Japanese
tradition. It was in the Chinese tradition to stop as
quickly as possible to negotiate. The annual clearing-
up of debts at the New Year is another example of
the tradition. Chinese businessmen do not go on
year after year piling up deficits; they have their
annual settlement and start off afresh. Even presi-
dents and emperors were no exception. When they
made a mistake they admitted it and asked for advice
from the nation, even if they did not take it. About
the Chinese character there is nothing Napoleonic.
• It might be said that there is something Napo-
leonic about Chiang, and in a sense there is. He does
not rule by an immense police force —it would be
impossible to police 400 millions. He rules by love,
reinforced by propaganda. There is nothing Christian
about the love, in the conventional acceptance of the
word, although Chiang is a Christian. He has the
emotional allegiance of one-fifth of the world’s popu-
lation because it is implicitly believed that he will
preserve all those things which the average Chinaman
most cherishes. He goes about it in his own way and
it appeals to every Chinaman.
It does not surprise a Chinaman to hear his dic-
tator call himself an incompetent fool, a humbug
and a scoundrel, or to see him resign and go into
retirement. That is all in the tradition. Nor is any-
body astonished if the dictator comes back again. Nor
does it surprise a Chinaman to hear his leader call
himself at one time a Communist and the next an
imperialist. The vicissitudes of Chiang’s career might
seem extraordinary to an Occidental. They are con-
sidered quite ordinary in China.
When the last Chinese emperor was booted off
the throne, it was expected that he would be hanged or
assassinated. Instead he was allowed to remain in
his palace, and even to indulge in criticism of his new
masters. He was fished out once by a rebel general
for a fortnight, but when the trouble was over he
retired again, more like a defeated Australian poli-
tician than an enemy of the people. And when the
Japanese wanted an emperor for their new province
of Manchukuo they found him ready.
The Japanese tradition is quite otherwise. When
a Japanese general or a statesman makes a mess of
things he is expected to commit suicide. No
excuse would be accepted from the army and the
navy if they gave up any of the nation’s acquire-
men The scholar is the most reverenced individual in
China. The merchant is despised and the soldier
comes nowhere. “One never uses good iron for nails
or good men for soldiers” is a Chinese saying.
FENG-SHUI.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
"Rocks for Broken Hill Prop."!
“They say in London,” said William Hunt, a director
of Maoriland companies, addressing the Wellington
Chamber of Commerce, “that a country which can
produce iron and steel at a lower cost than other
countries has the ball at its feet. Australia is doing it.”
It is true ; Broken Hill Proprietary is doing it.
Hence, as William Hunt added, “England,” which not
long ago scoffed at the idea of Australian manu-
factures—“ England believes that Australia has a great
future, not only pastoral, but manufacturing.” This
dissipation of English prejudice and hostility is also,
to a very large extent, the achievement of Broken Hill
Prop.
Fair-minded Australians recognise and are proud
of the outstanding energy and efficiency of this Aus-
tralian company. They realise that its continued pro-
gress means much to Australian industry, perhaps
more to Australian security. But in one quarter the
spectacle of this expanding enterprise, which invests
all its profits in Australia and is continually lessening
Australia’s dependence on foreign imports and employ-
ing more Australian workmen at Australian rates of
pay, excites only sullen hostility and mean envy.
“Rocking it into 8.H.P.” has become the sport of
Communist's, trade-union delegates, local coalmining
lodges, Labor papers and Labor politicians alike.
The recent Trade-Union Congress in Melbourne —
the one that followed Moscow in its new “collective
security” policy, adopted after years of League-baiting
when Moscow’s tail went down —closed its foolish
proceedings with a resolution “opposing Broken Hill
Prop, as a gigantic steel combine, with dynamic
political and industrial power.” When short of other
material for diatribes, N.S.W. Labor members at
Canberra find it a congenial task to throw mud at
Broken Hill Prop. “The B.H.P. has had a lot to say
about prosperity,” the Sydney “Worker” sneers. “It
certainly knows what prosperity is.”
Two years ago it made its shareholders a free gift
of bonus shares valued at approximately £4,000,000.
The “free” issue was an issue of £1 shares at 30s.
—nearly three times the market value in 1931, when
Mr. Lang was performing.
In a sense Broken Hill Prop, was forced into
coalmining because the price of coal in the open
market was inflated by obsolete methods and incessant
local strikes. Its advent has been of advantage to the
coalmining industry, especially as it owns a fleet of
steamers, four Australian-built, which all burn coal —
shipping cos. with big coalmining interests have of
late years bought oil-burners. It has nevertheless been
the target for most of the venomous attacks of coal-
mining-union bosses since the idea of another stop-
page as vast as the one that “cost us nearly £1,000,000
for relief” entered their minds. One of its pits was
chosen as the scene of the first stay-in strike, and the
example was straightway followed in another.
It was arranged that work in B.H.P. mines should
be resumed while negotiations for a general settlement
were in progress. The agreement was forthwith
broken. Apparently the idea is that faith must not
be kept with this company because it is prospering—
and preparing to put its profits into manufacture of
aeroplanes and tinplates, as well as production of
more pig-iron, steel ingots, benzol, and so forth.
Many people are toying with the idea of voting
Labor at the elections. They will certainly not vote
Labor if they are driven to conclude that support for
Labor means support for an alien and destructive
spirit of enmity to Australian industry.
An Opportunity for a Herbert.
The Parliament of the Commonwealth has used the
powers granted to it under the Constitution for
bringing bankruptcy under uniform control. It has
not exercised similar powers in respect of marriage
and divorce. Yet divorce conditions in Australia
are a scandal and a reproach, at once ridiculous and
tragic.
For example, a Queensland woman married to
a drunkard who has tried to murder her has no
ground for obtaining a divorce, because she has a
Queensland domicile. A mile away across the
N.S.W. border her domestic plight would afford a
good case for release. But, were her brutal lord to
slip over the mental border instead of the geo-
graphical one, then she would be better off than
her mile-away neighbor, because incurable insanity
is not a ground for divorce in N.S.W., but is in
Queensland.
The divorce laws of all the States vary in equally
idiotic fashion. The lives of thousands of good
Australian citizens have been, and are being, wrecked
by such inconsistencies and injustices.
The passage through the British Parliament of
a new divorce law has proved that the introduction
of such subjects into open Parliamentary discussion
does not spell political suicide. The Herbert Act
added desertion, cruelty and incurable insanity to
the previous legally approvable formula of a spot of
perjury and a week-end hotel bill for two. It is
possible that some like-minded Galahad may squeeze
through the party gates into Canberra. Possible, but
not probable.
Baulk at the S.P. Hurdle.
When the s.p. hurdle was a mote in the dim distance
it was wonderful what was going to be done by the
N.S.W. Government prad (Mr. Stevens in the saddle)
in the way of clearing it.
Urged on by various sorts of interests, High
Horse was to take it in his stride. A leading repre-
sentative of the stable Mr. Martin had been to
Queensland and returned with glowing accounts of
how easily the identical hurdle had been taken there.
In Queensland, it seemed, s.p. and all associated with
it were things of the past.
High Horse was trained to the minute. He’ had
been galloping finely morning and night for six
months. He had substantial backing. Newspaper
proprietaries, themselves intent on clearing the broad-
casting hurdle, had the proverbial shirt on him. They
had published his track form daily, and were known
to be handing him regular issues of thistle-tops and
titbits of sugar to encourage him.
Less than a week before the field of one was due
to go to the post it was confidently given out, evidently
by the stable, that, far from being at all troubled by
the prospect of clearing the s.p. hurdle, High Horse
would take in the one leap as well the conversion-of-
proprietary-race-clubs hurdle, the regulation-of-grey-
hound-coursing hurdle, the restriction-of-broadcasting
hurdle and any other hurdles, great or small, that
happened to loom up.
Everything went wrong. The reins broke, the
saddle shifted, and the greatly advertised animal
finished up in the ditch. The Governor, Lord Wake-
hurst, giving out the form guide and anticipations,
expertly placed him in advance as a mere also-ran.
According to this authoritative pronouncement, the
stable, having taken a closer look at the s.p. hurdle,
was “giving earnest consideration to this and related
problems.”
Sceptical onlookers who had been doubtful all
along unfeelingly remarked that, after all, the animal
had only run true to form. Those who would have
none of this found another explanation.
It appears it had been found, on examination of
the rules governing political hurdling, that if the s.p.
and related hurdles were now taken by the N.S.W.
Government prad, as forecast, a formidable amount of
additional weight would be lumped on the Federal
Government animal when it turned out for the run-
ning of the October Steeplechase. It was found, also,
that lesser representatives of the N.S.W. Government
stable would be similarly oppressively handicapped
when the local steeplechases are run next year.
Further, hangers-on of the stable began to find
out that all was not as well as had been represented
in Queensland. In contradiction of Mr. Martin’s
glowing reports Mr. Moverly, for one, declared that
members of the Queensland stable had assured him
that “the same results could have been achieved with-
out additional legislation”—stable jargon meaning that
there had been no need to take the s.p. hurdle at all,
and that the stable regretted it. Others discovered
that the Queensland stable had lost numerous friends
over its s.p. hurdling, and in political hurdling this
alone is held sufficient to cramp the style and put the
breeze up the highest horse whatever.
At any rate, after all the spouting about anti-s.p.
legislation, Mr. Stevens and his following are doing no
more about it than giving it “earnest consideration.”
Cancer Research and Treatment.
The building of a cancer-research block at one of the
Sydney hospitals, as proposed by the N.S.W. Health
Minister, will be a big step forward.
Hitherto in N. S. Wales research and hospital
treatment have trailed along separate paths. Sydney
University’s investigations have mainly been along
academic lines. The University lacks a large-scale
treatment plant, such as has been installed at big
Sydney hospitals, and also the full co-operation of
cancer specialists.
The Commonwealth’s contribution is worthy, and
worthy of note. Since 1928 the Commonwealth has
owned a substantial stock of radium which is available
at cheap rates to hospitals and private practitioners—
in cases where patients cannot pay, use is free. One
of the most capable radio physicists in the world, Dr.
Eddy, has been placed at the disposal of specialists,
and a laboratory is maintained by the Commonwealth
ai Melbourne University for the production of radon
and the making of experimental treatment apparatus.
Modern methods of treatment with radium and
deep X-ray have made it possible to remedy 90 p.c.
of all superficial cancers taken at an initial stage and
nearly 40 p.c. of early-treated deep-seated growths.
It is expensive treatment: a deep-ray therapy plant
costs in the vicinity of £6OOO to instal, and running
costs are heavy. At present the maximum voltage
used in ray treatment in Australia is about 400,000.
In the United States million-volt plants have been
installed.
The expense is amply justified, especially since
cancer is a disease which robs the country of men in
all walks of life at a period when the community is
getting most from their experience. There should,
indeed, be cancer hospitals in each capital, with research
units attached and a central control which can examine
results and indicate lines of future investigation.
A Paradise of Officials.
Minister SrooNEß’s County Council, so-called be-
cause it is in the city and suburban electricity business,
instructed its general manager the other day to cen-
sure its commercial manager. Its commercial manager
had ordered a concern which handles its advertising
to give a £lO6 contract to an Adelaide Labor paper
little known in Sydney except as a barracker for Lang
in the Lang Plan days. Considering that there is no
market in Adelaide for Sydney current, the County
Council thought this was overdoing it.
When the advertising agency protested that the
County Council could get much better value for its
money, the commercial manager “desired it to make
the necessary arrangements for advertising in the
paper without further delay.” “Hitler could not have
written such letters,” the chairman commented. “Un-
fortunately Mr. Nolan [the commercial manager] is
a law unto himself.” Perhaps Sydney officials get that
way after being sent abroad for several months at
the public expense, as this commercial manager was
soon after the County Council was established. How-
ever, Minister Spooner’s Government doesn’t think
so. It is all for sending officials abroad for long
periods, being firmly of opinion that they return
crammed with knowledge, wisdom, urbanity and zeal
for the public good.
If the voyager requires a luxury suite, the expense
is not cavilled at. As often as not his globetrotting
is preceded or followed by a thumping increase in
salary, and if he finds that he needs a grand new build-
ing as a monument to his glory, that also is pro-
vided. Mr. McKerihan, of the Rural Bank, has one ;
Mr. Hartigan, of the Railway Department, has an-
other, and Mr. Maddocks, late of the Transport
Department, ordered a third.
The building which will be occupied by Mr.
Maddocks’s successor is costing £123,000 or so. It
is going up in Macquarie-street, and sticklers for the
true and beautiful protest that it will be out of har-
mony with the Government buildings in the neighbor-
hood, whose mellow beauty used to entrance Bertram
Mackennal; but when Mr. Maddocks gave the order
he also was a “law unto himself.”
The monument to Mr. Hartigan’s glory is the
subject of a prose poem in his last annual report:
It comprises, with the ground floor, 12 storeys and
two basements. The general construction is of steel and
reinforced concrete. An air-conditioning plant ensures
an equable temperature; the eastern and western faces
are almost walls of glass; the striking facade is of green
and old gold. Each floor has tiled walls of distinctive
colorings ranging from green to warm yellow.
A nice balance between the 17th of March and the
12th of July. “The Commissioner’s suite is on the
fifth floor” ; it consists of “the Commissioner’s, Assist-
ant Commissioner’s and Secretary’s room, boardroom
and offices of the Secretariat.” And the “fitting dignity”
of the outfit is not marred by any reproduction of the
bit of colored printing in the Auditor-General’s report
which shows the losses on this Railway Department at
£28,000,000 in 10 years.
Now Mr. Upton, of the Water Board, who
recently received a large addition to his salary, is to
have a monument to his glory—“new head-office
buildings on the present site in Pitt-street and that
of a building at the rear, to cost £300,000.” The Water
Board has been practically taken over by the Stevens
Government, and was in danger of going bung if it
had not been taken over. Certainly it has been useful
to the Government in furnishing a pretext for the
resumption of London borrowing ; but £300,000 for
a new office!
Sydney is certainly the mandarin’s paradise.
Pacific Shipping.
Four years have elapsed since it was first mooted
that Britain and the Dominions should combine to
establish a Pacific shipping line to meet the competi-
tion of the heavily-subsidised Matson liners. It seems
in the nature of politicians to dawdle in these matters ;
but something is to be done at last.
It is proposed to build two 22,000-ton liners,
comparable in size and speed (22 knots) with the
Orient and P. and O. ships on the Australia-London
(via Suez) run. They will not rank with the world’s
fastest ships, but they will be faster than their Ameri-
can rivals, and, voyaging from Sydney to Vancouver,
will equal the Monterey’s Sydney-’Frisco time. They
will be linked to the Atlantic by means of the Canadian
railway systems and the Empress ships, one of which,
the Empress of Britain, a 42,000-tonner, has made
the passage from Quebec to Cherbourg in four days
seven hours.
The building of the two new ships, which will cost
£3,000,000 and be financed through a loan of which
the U.K. will subscribe half and Australia, Canada
and Maoriland the other half, means more than the
mere provision of a couple of passenger-carriers.
All new British liners are designed for emergency
conversion into auxiliary cruisers, fairly heavily
armed and equipped with aeroplanes. So the presence
of more ships of this type in the Pacific, will add to
our defensive strength.
The A's Have It.
Queensland’s official party candidates for the Senate
elections have been chosen. In the selection of one
group the importance of the alphabet must have been
taken for granted, as it was when N.S.W. Labor chose
Amour, Ashley, Armstrong and Anderson, since
succeeded by Arthur. The Douglas Crediters are Aird,
Allen and Argaet. The U.A.P.-C.P. men are Annand,
Cameron and Heading; the retiring Labor Senators
are Brown, Codings and MacDonald. Seven A B C’s
out of nine.
There seems to be an impression that the veriest
chump whose name might be Aaron or Abadee must
have a greater appeal to the people than Solomon or
Shakspeare. It is just a question whether this “system”
of choosing potential legislators is more unflattering
(or less) to candidates than to electors. The fact
remains that the Senate has only one elected A
(Abbott), whereas there are seven elected M’s (two
MacDonalds, two McLachlans, McLeay, Massy-
Greene and Millen), and three P’s (Payne, Pearce and
Plain), as well as a Sampson and an Uppil.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“241”: To relieve his mind after a
battle for reduction of his dues before
the Appeals Court presided over by Judge
Markell, a Sydney “wife-starver” put in
his entry for a chess tournament. In one
of the early rounds he found that he had
as his antagonist—Judge Markell, also a
chess enthusiast. The Judge, eyed the
man on the other side of the board
questioningly, and remarked that he was
certain he had met him somewhere be-
fore. “Your face, also, is familiar to
me,” remarked the recent appellant, non-
committally. It wasn’t the Judge who
won.
* * * *
“Monog”: There’s little that’s furtive or
surreptitious about the birth-control trade
nowadays. Before me is a column in
which preventives and Marie Stopes
lucubrations are advertised by seven
agents ; one bespeaks purchasers for a
dozen different articles. The newspaper
publishing them claims that it sells more
copies to farmers than any rival. Surely
children haven’t become “encumbrances”
on farms!
* H= * *
“Confirmed B.”: Noticing in the Syd-
ney “Sun” that the arresting headline
“Song and Fear in Germany” was sup-
ported by cabled news of a choir having
sung “Great God, how dangerous is our
life,” I paused in George-street to chew
another couple of claws and consult my
hymn book. I gathered that the Ger-
man singing possibly synchronised with
the singing in Sydney of “Here we suffer
grief and pain”; as a headline “Misery
and Torture at Potts Point” suggested
itself. At the same time “Fight the good
fight with all thy might” pealing forth
in Melbourne suggested “War Prepara-
tions in Footscray: ‘With All Their
Might.’ ” “Canberra Experiment Aban-
doned: Future Federal Capital Site in
Doubt” seemed amply proved by the
singing thereabouts of “We’ve no abid-
ing city here”; and the singing in New-
castle of “Come, labor on. Who dares
stand idle on the harvest plain” provided
the ready-made headlines “Sit-down
Strike Over: Tumultuous Rejoicing.”
Here my studies were interrupted by a
sudden grab and a man bolting through
the crowd, suggesting: “Hymn Book
Stolen. Well-known Lay Preacher
Robbed.” It wouldn’t be true —it was
the cray he got off with —but perhaps
that wouldn’t matter.
* * * #
“Engee”: It happened at the Melbourne
Glaciarium. There was a big crowd and
everything was as peaceful as such a
gathering should be until one young man
lost his balance. As he fell forward a
girl flashed by in front of him at a high
speed. Instinctively clutching at her for
support, his fingers caught hold of her
skirt; it was not very securely fastened,
and a moment later he lay on the ice with
the garment in his hand, while the. girl
sailed on revealing a pair of blue silk
scanties. There was a roar from the
crowd, the girl’s face almost caught fire,
and the women sped to her rescue. The
leader of the orchestra, quick on the
uptake, increased the uproar by switching
his band into the strains of “Beautiful
Lady in Blue.”
* * * *
“Tuart”: While the Commonwealth
Minister of Health is telling us every
other day that the birthrate has gone to
the bow-wows, the rather stupid Govern-
ment at Melbourne has brought in a
Marriage Act “Amendment” Act forbid-
ding registrars to perform civil marriages
and matrimonial agencies to arrange for
the solemnisation of unions. It has dis-
covered that one particular registrar per-
formed 738 marriages in 1936, apparently
by arrangement with a matrimonial
agency, and it thinks the. number exces-
sive ; also it dislikes matrimonial agen-
cies. An old doctor I knew in Westralia
was so strongly in favor of them that he
thought the Government should run one
of its own. He was in control of the
Claremont Hospital for the Insane, and
"I dips me lid to you, lady. My old woman's on'y got nine."
he said emphatically that the saddest and
most hopeless cases he had to deal with
were those of good fellows who had gone
to the pack because they never had a
chance of meeting decent women that
might have taken an interest in them. As
a matter of fact, in all the residential
suburbs about the capital cities there are
thousands of women who never have a
chance of meeting decent men that might
take an interest in them, and well-con-
ducted bureaux that bring such lonely
people together deserve something better
than clumsy legislative bricks. Victoria
has had one for upwards of 40 years and
I never heard anything against it. Par-
ties to matrimonial-bureau marriages are
generally people who know their own
minds and have learned how to take care
of themselves, and they seem rather suc-
cessful in keeping out of divorce courts.
* * $ *
“Whiz”: A British motorist recently
escaped conviction on a novel plea for
exceeding the two-hours-parking limit.
He submitted that he had parked his car
to answer a previous charge of the same
nature, and contended that, as he was
virtually a prisoner till his case was con-
cluded, he was compelled to break the
law a second time. A flabbergasted
Bench entered a dismissal.
#K * : != *
“Kwakprak”: Dr. Victor Heiser, who
visited Australia in 1921 in connection
with the hookworm-campaign operations
of the Rockefeller Foundation, gives in
his Doctor’s Odyssey an account of an
interview with W. M. Hughes which
should not be lost to history. The doc.
informed the Little Digger that the
Quarantine Branch of the Customs
should be converted into a Federal
Health Department, and the L.D., then
Prime. Minister, objected:
He looked at me in amazement.... The
great man whom everybody had approached
on hands and knees was actually being
meek. I followed up my advantage.
“You’re only a lawyer trying to tell me
about something at which I’ve spent my
life.”
He was in a virtual state of collapse. “I’m
very glad you talked this way to me,” he
said with a humble and contrite heart as I
took my departure.
Billy’s account of the interview, with
comments, should be interesting.
* * * *
“Sartor”: When a Federal Arbitration
Court witness deposed that since the de-
pression nearly all cloth for which cus-
tomers’ measurements have been taken
goes to a factory to be machine-made,
Judge Drake-Brockman nodded his head
in gloomy acquiescence and contributed
an experience of his own:
I remember a union secretary telling me
that the suit in which I came to the court
had been factory-made. I had paid a high
price for it, believing that it had been
hand-made, and I received a shock.
’Sonah should have sought the opinion
of his own womenfolk on the. subject.
Few men know whether a garment is
hand-sewn or not, but the woman is
rare who cannot tell at a glance.
* * * *
“Macann”: Of all concoctions for in-
sulting the human inside that I have ever
heard of I give the crown seal to lunatic
stew. Certain spirits I’ve heard called
lunatic soup, but the stew —favorite with
a group of Sydney down-and-outs ; they
were photographed at it —b’egan as ordi-
nary meat stew. When this was judged
to be ready, several gallons of the cheap-
est plonk were poured into the boiling
cauldron. When it came to the boil again
the cauldron was lifted away from the
fire, and a quart or two of metho. were
added. The addicts lined up, mostly with
baby-food tins, and each had his issue
served out. As soon as it was cool
enough the fearful mixture was gulped
down. First effect was a stupid stare,
with unconsciousness soon after. Friday
was the day for it, and I gathered that
effects lasted till well into the following
week.
* * * *
Being set back on a Sydney
tram for the special double price for
racegoers brought hazy recollection of
a museum visited in Cairo. The card
of admission bore in rubber-stamp let-
tering the legend “Special price for sol-
diers, two piastres.” On my card the
stamper’s hand had erred, leaving the
original printed ordinary charge quite
plain—one piastre.
* * * *
“Junius”: Stated that the Governor’s
speech at the opening of the N.S.W. Par-
liament last week was one of the longest,
if not the longest, on record. Most of
these disquisitions could be improved and
shortened by a little judicious sub-editing.
Take this sentence for an instance:
My advisers are encouraged by the evi-
dence of increase in employment and the
corresponding steady decrease in unem-
ployment.
If there are a lot more people working
than there were a year ago, it seems
wildly superfluous to add that there are
a lot fewer idle.
* * * *
“Turps”: I hold no brief for getting
pubs socked, but a case in Sydney left
me bewildered. Eighty-six head, rounded
up in the Australia, Usher’s and the Carl-
ton, were each soaked ss. with Bs. costs.
The publicans were bound over for 12
months on a bond of £2O each. Each
had to pay Bs. costs, the same sum that
was demanded of each person rounded
up. There is possibly some obscurity in
the working of the law too subtle for a
lay mind to grasp, but I should have
thought the pubs were at least as guilty
as their guests, and that if a fine was
good enough for the one it should have
been all right for the other. Anyway,
the case indicates that something will
need to be done about Sydney’s drinking
hours before next year’s anniversary
celebrations. Perhaps it was a prelimi-
nary to something being done.
* * *
“P.M.”: Every fresh yarn about
Richthofen and Richthofen relics sup-
plies instances of how quickly legends
grow and get distorted. The famous
airman was killed on April 21, 1918,
and was buried by the Australian Flying
Corps. Within a very few years nearly
every unit on the Western Front claimed
to have done the burying, innumerable
buttons from his uniform had been
widely distributed round the empire,
and instruments and parts of his machine
beyond counting were in the hands of
various persons. I was present at Rich-
thofen’s funeral, and as orderly room
clerk prepared the whole of the official
reports on his death, post-mortem ex-
amination, burial, etc. The flood of in-
accurate reports about Richthofen which
periodically crop up is amazing,
* * * *
“Jungor”: Among all the speeches
ma de and ink shed over the shortening
G f the railway distance between Adelaide
anc i p 0 rt Augusta there was no reference
t o one curious bit of history in connec-
tion w ith the East-West link. One of
the conditions on which the Federal Par-
liament sanctioned the railway from
Port Augusta to Kalgoorlie was that
Westralia should duplicate the State line
between Kalgoorlie and Fremantle. The
undertaking was given cheerfully in the
spacious days of John Forrest, but the
fine never has been duplicated, and it is
unlikely that it ever will be. Walter
J am es, I think, was the first Westralian
Premier to discover and announce that
the job was far too big and costly for
the, State to tackle, and the promise has
long“ h “n tte wS
ralian Secessionists were claiming that
they never got a fair deal from the Com-
monweaith.
NO PLACE FOR THEM.
“Imagine having to sit up all night with eleven
ugly men and being compelled to listen to their
talk about racehorses and tin hares.” —Speaker at
Sydney Feminist Club opposing a motion for jury-
women.
O you Elizabeths and Mauds and Graces
Who fain would mingle with good men and
true
Sworn to adjudicate in jury cases,
I warn you to be careful what you do.
Think of how many of us have homely faces,
Plebeian tastes, unquestionably, too,
And other attributes that might displease
Your more refined susceptibilities.
Granted that it’s a laudable ambition
To do your bit of service for the State
And dissipate the ancient superstition
Of Eve being Adam’s quite inferior mate,
Still, you might fairly make it a condition
That those with whom you must co-operate
Should be a trifle more like movie fans
From Hollywood than scowling Calibans.
Think of the misery of being impounded
From dark to dawn with disputatious blokes
Whose outlook on the outer world is bounded
By the performances of weedy mokes
At Randwick, or of hares of metal hounded
’Mid backers’ shouts of joy and losers’ croaks,
Ahead of canine chasers, stern and stark,
Along the level track of Harold Park.
Sisters, beware! These man-made jury boxes
Are things demanding to be touched with
gloves;
Never of frills or furbelows or frocks is
Their talk, or on the subject of the loves
They’ve won or lost. They’re serpents, bears
and foxes,
Unfit associates for gentle doves.
You shouldn’t let them touch your garment’s
hem,
Steer clear of them, you girls, steer clear of
them!
How could you earn your country’s bread and
butter
Pronouncing on some misdemeanant’s past,
When from one side of you there comes a
mutter
In eager tones of “Bill, what won the last?”
And night-time is the prelude to a flutter
On whether Blighter’s Blob or Blodger’s Blast
Will land the Cup. No, sisters, it is true
These panels are no place for such as you.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Shorus”: I once heard a missionary
relate that he was struck by the lack of
expression with which a class of native
students sang the fine old hymn “Rock
of Ages.” He asked a dusky scholar to
retranslate it, and the English version
came back thus:
Very old stone,
Split up for my benefit,
Let me conceal myself
In one of your crevices.
* * * *
“Col. B.”: That meticulous solicitor
(B. 28/7/’37) who taught his articled
clerks to regard as an example of un-
equivocal denial the defence of the. man
who denied that “he was the father of the
twins, or either of them,” was on per-
fectly sound ground. Cases of different
paternity in a multiple birth are on scien-
tific record, and, physiologically, there is
nothing at all remarkable about it. Oniy
a year or so ago, a Norwegian Court had
before it a divorce case which turned on
that very point. It was proved by blood-
group tests that the father of one of the
twins, born within 20 minutes of the
other, could not possibly have been the
father of that other.
.** * *
“Hippophagos”: British prejudice
against horseflesh as an article of diet (B.
4/8/’37) is largely attributable to senti-
ment. I don’t claim to have ever tasted it
(knowingly), but a sergeant in a South
African irregular corps who, in the stress
of a minor war, had helped to consume
half a dozen of the animals assured me
that, except for a slight sweetness not to
be found in beef or mutton, it was en-
tirely palatable. He spoke even more
“I wish you'd take to shorts, Harold those underpants of yours are
KILLING our romance .”
highly of mule and donkey, and, con-
sidering the nutritious qualities attributed
to asses’ milk, I have sometimes thought
that a haunch of donkey might com-
mend itself to epicures. Sieges provide
the best test of what people can eat and
might even get to like in time. In the
Siege of Paris in the early ’seventies the
citizens fed on nearly every animal avail-
able, including two elephants from the
Zoo. Dogs helped to fill out the menu,
but cats were considered preferable to
them. Henry Labouchere, who was there
as a newspaper correspondent, put in a
good word for even rats as an entirely
wholesome food, albeit a trifle “gritty.”
* *
“Kwakprak”: The radon plant now
being established at the Queensland Uni-
versity represents another important step
forward in Australian cancer treatment
by the Commonwealth X-ray and
Radium Laboratory service. Radon is a
gas obtained from radium salts by a com-
plicated process of solution, freezing, con-
densation and absorp-
tion ; the radium rapidly
regains its activity, and
can be used for centuries
without substantial loss of
efficiency; the radon is
enclosed in tiny hollow
gold “needles,” in gradu-
ated dosages of which the
effects extend over about
a month. These are in-
serted in the part to be
treated, and can remain
there indefinitely without
risk. The radiotherapist
determines the dosage re-
quired, and the needles are
sent out from the labora-
tory in suitable con-
tainers. Results are re-
markable. Again, you
mid-life and elderly Aus-
tralians, do not delay in
getting sound medical ad-
vice about that lump or
tenderness or slow-healing
little sore. Time is the
all-important factor for
successful treatment.
“Alpha”: Now that the decorations
are being pulled down in' Westminster
Abbey, the Baconians are hoping to
secure final evidence on the identity of
their hero with William Shakspeare, pro-
vided the Dean will give his consent to
the exhumation of the body of the poet
Spenser. They hope to find the first
known example of the bard’s handwrit-
ing, which can then be compared with
existing signatures of Bacon. William
Camden, sometime headmaster of West-
minster School, left it on record that
most of England’s leading poets attended
Spenser’s funeral in 1599, armed with
an elegy apiece, which were thrown into
the tomb along with the pens that wrote
them. The odds, however, are heavy
against such documents, even if they
haven’t crumbled to dust, being still
decipherable,
* * * *
“Kerys”: England certainly realised
it knew little of its richest men (B.
4/8/’37) when, just after the war, a retir-
ing little man, a London solicitor who
lived with an old housekeeper in a quiet
suburb and caught the train to the city
every morning, died and left £9,000,000.
He was then stated to be the richest indi-
vidual in the Empire, but nobody knew
it until he died. Investments sent sky-
high by war conditions increased a previ-
ously huge fortune.
“May 1 borrow the instruments, dear? I've got an amputation case
this morning .”
“Mar yell”: How many of the 10,000
who saw Burke and Wills set out from
Melbourne (B. 23/6/’37) are here to-day ?
My grandmother, still alive, missed seeing
the camels, horses and the rest of the out-
fit going through Castlemaine, but she
remembers “Mr. Burke” himself quite
well. Her description:
A big, broad-shouldered man with a
dark beard and an Irish accent. He used to
dine at our house fairly often—he was
something in the police. Everyone said
he was no bushman and had a terrible
temper, but we children rather liked him.
I have never met anyone who could re-
member the unlucky second-in-command
of that tragic expedition.
* * *
“Groper”: The fine old Australian in-
dustry of bark-stripping looks like re-
ceiving a setback in the near future —
not from exhaustion of wattles and other
bark-carrying trees, as suggested in a re-
cent Bulletin par., but because of the
investigations of industrial chemists
among Westralian eucalypts. Already a
plant is in operation which takes the
whole tree (with the exception of the
leaves), disintegrates everything into
shreds, boils and distils, and produces
tannic acid in a concentrated form. This
concentrate, which is nearly colorless, is
used in increasing bulk overseas, tanners
producing any shade of color by means
of synthetic dyes.
* % # *
“Perry”: The boom in philately (B.
4/8/’37) is partly due to the rapid
monarchical changes. Just after the
Empire had specialised in Jubilee stamps
came the death of King George, the
accession of Edward (with the five stamps
which already have run up to about £1
for the set), the unexpected thrust into
the limelight of George VI., with ordinary
and Coronation issues to swell the tide.
The Edwardian five are sure to have a
high value in the future, and collectors
are already writing to friends in England
for sets of the melancholy-looking head
of that short-reigning sovereign.
* * * *
“J.0.L.”: Although a Sydney aider-
man will go down to posterity as the
man who described diphtheria immuni-
sation as “all hooey,” the main opposi-
tion comes from people who expect un-
pleasant after-effects. Actually, the im-
munisation substance mostly used is the
diphtheria poison itself, rendered harm-
less by the addition of a little formal-
dehyde. Its action is so effective that,
with proper co-operation, diphtheria can
be entirely wiped out of a city. There
are many cities in the U.S.A. where no
single case has been reported for over
two years ; on the other hand, untreated
areas still lose hundreds of kiddies,
choked to death by the deadly throat film.
Perhaps a little more publicity emphasis-
ing the complete absence of harmful
after-effects in immunisation might be
helpful.
“Mudurup”: Yes, philological niceties
went by the board in war-time when any-
thing that looked as if it might be Ger-
man became suspect. Shugg, for instance,
is a good old Cornish name, yet one
possessor of it had to rebut a ground-
less aspersion on his nationality by a
libel action. A surname ending in
“stein” was provocative, too, and led
to one of Perth’s leading restaurants
being smashed up and raided. The pro-
prietor was a native of Russian Poland.
“S.T.S.”: S.A. was full of German
place-names in 1914. The ancestors of
the present and past generation had come,
70 years before, mainly from South Ger-
many to get away from Prussian domi-
nation. There was one leading Adelaide
citizen, an old man at that time, in whose
presence it was not safe even to mention
the Kaiser. But it was mainly in the
Adelaide hills and up-country that men
of German stock abounded, being the
backbone of the farming districts. Every
little war memorial there tells of the
Schmidts and Mullers who died for Aus-
tralia —for they were, naturally and very
properly, not in the least ashamed of
their names. I remember saying to one
Kayser as I made his will, “What will
they say to you if you are taken
prisoner?” But he only grinned. Yet in
war-time bitterness we wiped out all their
old place-names such as Lobethal and
Hahndorf. The pick of these have been
allowed back again lately.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: S.A. has taken a worth-while
step towards church unity in a Council
of Religious Education. With a C. of E.
president work amicably Methodist,
Salv’army, Presbyterian, Church of
Christ, Congregational and Baptist. And
Methodist in S.A. includes all the fol-
lowers of Wesley, the Primitive and
Plymouth and so on having been per-
suaded by the late Chief Justice Way to
combine, about the end of last century.
* * * *
“Brix”: The unemployed youth we en-
gaged to cut our hedge at Goulburn ex-
plained his tramping technique. “When
I see a car coming along my way,” he
informed me, “I just limp. It nearly
always works. Lots of people, especi-
ally women, don’t care to pick up an un-
known if they are on their own in the
car, but I’ve found very few drivers have
the heart to pass a man if he seems to be
lame.”
* * # *
“P.M.”: The yarn about the young
lady raising £l5 for the church
by gambling (B. 21/7/’37) reminds
me of a bazaar run by the mothers’
club at a Vic. country school.
A couple of Diggers enticed the male
section of the audience, which was getting
bored wi,th the proceedings, into the
gents’ cloakroom, where they were initi-
ated into the intricacies of crown and
anchor. At the conclusion of the game
they paid in £5 14s. 9d., a “donation”
to the mothers’ club. The total profits
of the bazaar were under £6 ; and the
crown and anchor king, although he holds
the D.C.M. and M.M., wasn’t game to tell
his wife where the money came from!
(Continued on page 50.)
THE CORNER SHOP.
The corner shop's not very far away
From where 1 live (a neighborhood of flats).
I’m almost certain it is safe to say
That, calling there at any time of day,
You'll interrupt a conversation gay
Among some ladies minus hose and hats,
Who stand in silence till you reach the door
Before their laughing chatter starts once more.
A lot of gossips, you may think? Not so.
Your error’s only natural, of course;
But times have changed; these dames don’t
want to know
Each other’s business —all sorts come and go
Where streams of strangers ever ebb and flow —
They’ve all got winners; each one knows a
horse
That’s “going off,” and, if they think all’s set,
The corner shop will place each little bet.
Th is quarter always claims to be “select”;
The nearest pub is distant half a mile;
Some hold it benefit and some defect —
Their attitudes their tendencies reflect — ,
But more say nothing; watching, I detect
The knowing nod, the enigmatic smile.
I catch one’s eye, the demonstrations stop;
They’re all old clients off the corner shop.
QUEENSLAND.
M. K. BENNETT.


They’re Smooth
and they do not
affect your throat
&e*viotu&oi
A,
D 382
THE
A'
CRAVENA
ARE MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS
CORK
CIGARETTE
THIS GENE
RATI
10 for
20 for I'6
POLITICAL POINTS
The Government at Canberra has
mastered its fear of the Mayor of Wool-
lahra sufficiently to announce that the
first flying-boats to carry the air mail will
drop down at Rose Bay, Sydney.
The base, however, will not be a per-
manent one, and preliminary steps will
be taken to establish a base at Botany Bay.
A characteristic No-Decision Govern-
ment decision.
Casey learned in London, or says he
learned, that “in the last two or three
years a good deal more capital would
have been invested in Australia but for
fear of the return of a radical Labor
Government.” Another theory is that it
was withheld because of the dozen
income taxes.
People who have to fill in income-tax
returns for several departments notice
that the Commonwealth is much less
rough on them than any of the provin-
cial concerns. It allows “rates and land
tax” on a house a man is buying for
his family as deductions from his tax-
able income; none of the State Gov-
ernments does. It also exempts “State
income tax and State unemployed relief
and special income and wages tax.” The
Sydney Government lumps together what
is paid in those taxes and Federal income
tax and taxes the lot.
For the year to June 30 value of Aus-
tralian exports exceeded value of imports
by £35,657,000 sterling. It was due
chiefly to increases in commodity prices,
particularly wool, shipments of “greasy,”
in sterling values, rising from £46,206,000
in 1935-36 to £55,179,000; of “scoured”
from £5,734,000 to £6,818,000 and of
wheat from £14,051,000 to £18,766,000.
In spite of the trade-diversion “policy,”
there was an all-round increase in im-
ports.
Wool exports valued at £5,622,000 and
bullion and specie exports valued at
£5,630,000 have given the Commonwealth
a favorable balance of trade with the
U.S.A. for the first time, the excess being
£1,047,000 sterling. Nevertheless, Can-
berra’s clumsy trade-war continues. How
clumsy it is was indicated by the directors
of the Mick Simmons concern when they
reported at their annual meeting that
“American-made rifles and ammunition,
practically indispensable to the man on
the land, are now unobtainable, and suit-
able substitutes cannot be procured from
any source.”
When N.S.W. was on the rocks and
the trade-unions had a third of their
members unemployed, Lang gave a fat
advertising contract to an Adelaide
Labor paper which was helping him to
“establish” a Lang party in its city.
Stevens, coming in, tried to get the con-
tract cancelled, but had to pay. The
same sheet recently got a £lO6 order from
the Spooner-created County Council for
proclaiming in Adelaide that it sells elec-
tric current in parts of Sydney. It tran-
spires that the C.C. advertising agents
objected, and were told by the commer-
cial manager, one Nolan, to place the
contract “without further delay.” Nolan
has been sa —no, “censured.”
In Victoria 10 p.c. is taken from tote
receipts, the State Government drawing
5 p.c. During the 1936-37 racing year its
5 p.c. yielded £124,783, and charities got
the lot. In N.S.W. Government’s, clubs’
and tote co.’s cuts amount to 12| p.c.,
plus fractions of sixpences and unclaimed
dividends, the Government grabbing
9 p.c. It has yet to publish its 1936-37
figures, but for the year to June 30, 1936,
less was extorted by its 9 p.c. tax than
Victoria, with considerably fewer people,
got last year from 5 p.c.; the total was
£115,611, of which £8453 came from
tin-hare totes —Victoria has none. It
just shows how overtaxation dries up
sources of income.
Queensland has for many years had a
State Advances Corporation which helps
home-builders. Largely because the cor-
poration has discouraged extravagance,
lending for the most part on inexpensive
wooden dwellings, it and its clients have
steered clear of troubles which Govern-
ment housing ventures in other parts have
struck in large quantities. But a gentle-
man has been telling Queenslanders that
their S.A.C. has been outmoded, or some-
thing, and that they ought to go in for
co-operative building societies on the
Stevens plan, by virtue of which a society
lends, say, £715 on a security valued by
somebody or other at £751 ; the Govern-
ment indemnifies the society to the extent
of £75 and guarantees its overdraft. The
gentleman is “Mr. Marcus Burke, of
T. M. Burke Pty., Ltd., land salesmen,”
and his enthusiasm is boundless.
English newspaper maps of strife-
ridden Spain show that the “rebels” hold
at least four-sevenths of the country, in-
cluding all the big cities except Madrid,
IT'S AN OLD ABORIGINAL CUSTOM.
“The death-bone has been pointed at the N.S.W. anti-gambling bill by those whose
creed is summed up in the sentence ‘There is one born every minute.’ ”
—Canon Hammond (the canon was a footballer once).
Valencia and Barcelona, and that the de-
fenders of Madrid are in a very bad mili-
tary position. In Australian newspapers
the rebs. have suddenly becomje insurgents
and Nationalists, and the head of the
Valencia Government is about “to lead a
delegation to Geneva to demand that
sanctions be imposed against Italy and
Germany.” The war must be entering on
its last lap.
Having perhaps noticed that shares in
all the N.S.W. coalmining cos. quoted
on the Sydney market can be. picked up
dirt cheap, the “Worker” contends that
the hated Broken Hill Prop, should pay
higher wages for less work in its pits
because it is “well able to meet the
miners’ demands for economic justice.”
All very fine and noble, but would the
“Worker” board listen to an argument
that it should give higher wages and
shorter hours than weeklies which have
no forced circulation and are not thriv-
ing? It wouldn’t.
Figures for the twelvemonth to June
30 show how little Bradford did to
take up the slack in the wool trade
caused by the Japanese embargo, effusive
as were its promises to Stevens. The
U.K. increased its 1935-36 purchases by
340,000 centals (3,115,000 as against
2,775,000); Belgium bought another
240,000 centals, Germany another
235,000. Uncle Sam’s buying was the
happy surprise; it went from 248,108
centals to 727,895 centals. The U.S.A.
was our fourth-best wool customer.
Robert Semple, the Maoriland Minister
of Works, has been telling Australian
Labor politicians that “control of finance
is the key to the prosperity of the nation.”
He will learn better if nature turns dog
on Maoriland, which God forbid! Since
Labor has been in, Nature has been
bountiful and prices have been excellent,
and Semple’s listeners are quite ready to
believe that “control of banking and
credit” has done it all.
Semple reports that since his party took
office in Maoriland the number of un-
employed has been reduced from 75,000
to 15,000, “many of whom are unem-
ployable.” Very gratifying news; and
Mr. Semple should really ask the secre-
tary of the Carpenters and Joiners at
Auckland not to send any more letters to
Australian papers saying that hundreds
of his members are either unemployed
or engaged in other callings, because
there is no certainty of earning a decent
wage at the trade.”
Vic. U.A.P. leader Argyle chose a
curious stick to whack the Dunstan Gov-
ernment’s Board of Works Bill when he
named, as his “chief objection,” the
“changing of the method of govern-
ment from a nominee body to an elec-
five body.” It seems an uncomplimen-
lack of With in the commonsense of
t he electors U.A.P.. chiefs exist to :serve,
but m °st or tne politicians nave been
short of this faith since the Match
referendum.
Westralia had a drought last year, and
its State Government wound up the
financial twelvemonth with a large
deficit. Tasmania had a drought, and
its Government boasts a surplus. The
Speck has just about half the population
of the million-square-mile State that had
a drought; and it is to get the same Com-
monwealth grant this year, £575,000. The
decision —made by one of those commis-
sions which shiftless Governments em-
ploy to make decisions for them —is
utterly illogical and indefensible.
The latest pre-selection stories in S.A.
are that one person unknown cast most of
the votes counted in a Labor ballot, and
that bookmakers and their friends beat a
sitting member for a Liberal nomination,
Lib. membership tickets being sold in
the streets and in betting shops. The in-
dications are that S.A. will be the first
State to outlaw what the “S. M. Herald”
calls “the pre-selective system.”
Premier Forgan Smith to his people,
through the “Courier-Mail”:
Queensland recognises the principle that
development must proceed on a founda-
tion of industry. *
E. P. Simpson, of the Queensland
Chamber of Manufactures, same page:
High taxation and industrial laws make
our costs higher than in the other States.
So, though Queensland may recognise the
principle, the Forgan Smith Government
doesn’t support it.
Nobody gave the anti-machine candi-
date a chance in the Gordon (N.S.W.)
Assembly by-election ; for one thing, he
was too recent a. convert. U.A.P. opti-
mists talked of a three-to-one majority.
With a few hundred votes to come
in it was only 11,000-odd to
7000-odd in favor of their man,
Turner. The “S. M. Herald” reporter
acknowledged that “big support giver,
to Mr. Storey in the upper por-
tions of the electorate placed him in a
more favorable position than was ex-
pected by his opponents,” but the leader-
writer hailed the majority as “very hand-
some” and discovered that “Vaucluse
and Woollahra were lost to the pre-selec-
tive system because the electors them-
selves were unprepared for the fight.”
“The pre-selective system” is as the Ark
of the Covenant to “Granny.”
Donald Cameron, now M.H.R. for
Lilley, has been induced to lead the
Ministerial Senate team in Queensland,
his associates being Annand and
Heading (C.P.), Diggers like himself.
There has been a roaring sectarian rum-
pus in Queensland, which of late years
had been reasonably free from such
things. All the parties expect political
repercussions and find the prospect
puzzling.
As a Minister Tummas Paterson goes
from blunder to blunder ; but he is lucky
in his internal foes on the central council
of the Vic. C.P. group. The wordy
Skeat, who is himself after some seat or
other, is indignant because Tummas “will
not surrender his seat in the Lyons Minis-
try to honor the decision of the rank
and file of the movement.” The “deci-
sion” was really made by Skeat and his
pals, as was their decision “to have our
own Senate team.” Between them they
will put Tummas in again for Gippsland
and push their Dunstan off the Vic.
Treasury benches, for “our own Senate
team” will get such a dreadful doing that
Dunstan’s retention of office will look too
ghastly a joke.
Enraged at the possibility of a friendly
understanding with Italy and Germany,
that League fanatic Wickham Steed, once
of the “Times,” rings the changes on
the pacifist’s favorite word:
We may have to fight to defend our in-
terests in the Mediterranean. We may
find that when we have to fight we shall
have to fight alone.
“We,” it transpires, means the young men
of “Britain and the Dominions,” the part
assigned to them being to “defend the
remaining democracies of Europe against
any attack.” He is just on 67.


STRUCK OFF THE LIST.
“Hundreds of N.S.W. divorce suits, begun by young married women, have to be struck off the list because the young married women
fail to appear when their names are called.”


Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House-
holders’ Comprehensive, Workers’
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
SPEED DEPENDS ON SPARKING PLUGS
Champions
-YOU CAN
DEPEND ON
Si
it.
31S2*
Ml*
111*
MMIIII
WlllllJJi
SJijJ/Sa
jjJJ/J/A
IV/vla
f&A
ass^
vs
SPEED that only a smooth-running engine can give.
SPEED that takes you on your way with safety and
economy. SPEED that makes the hills seem level. Get
SPEED the way racing champions get it . . . with
CHAMPIONS. An Empire product—made in Windsor,Canada
fir ,
Obtainable at all leading
automotive supply dealers
PERSONAL ITEMS
On being appointed Acting First Naval
Member of the Australian Naval Board,
following the death of Rear-Admiral
Hyde, Capt. G. P. Thomson, R.N., will
be raised to the rank of Acting-Commo-
dore. Thomson has been a captain since
1927, but has been in Australia only four
months. He is an outstanding linguist—
one of the two holders of a Royal Naval
interpreter’s certificate in Dutch, Danish,
French and German.
David Lindsay Dymock, one of the
dairying pioneers on the N.S.W. South
Coast and one of the first in 1883 to im-
port a separator, has passed on at 98.
He came from Edinburgh in 1845, and
for more than 60 years lived at Jam-
beroo.
Charles Norman Neale, who succeeds
to the N.S.W. Transport Commissioner’s
job, was one of Turner’s pupils at Fort-
street, Sydney. Matriculating, he imme-
diately entered the tramway service
under Superintendent Kneeshaw (he
would be called a Commissioner to-day),
and ever since has been engaged, like
Tony Weller, in the safe carriage of
humans. Neale is a happy-dispositioned
cove, young at 58, who will fit naturally
into his new job.
J. Ward Williams, who organised a
British-American-Australian syndicate to
prospect the interior of Papua for gold
for two years, has turned it up after 12
months, being satisfied that the chances
of finding a large area of new gold-
bearing country are too remote. W. T.
Korn, who went with him, said they
prospected all the upper reaches of the
Fly River to the boundary of New
Guinea, and though they washed up
colors there was nothing payable this
side of the border. He thinks the pros-
pects for oil are more favorable.
Colin Kerr Grant, son of the Prof,
of Physics at Adelaide University, had
degrees in science and mathematics be-
fore he went to Cambridge four years
ago. Back home on a long visit, he
proposes to pay special attention to the
“rift valley,” that geological crack in
the continent’s heart which runs north-
ward from Spencer’s Gulf in S.A., much
of it being below sea-level, so that some
enthusiasts have proposed flooding lakes
Eyre and Torrens to make an inland
sea.
Captain William McKillop, the veteran
whaler who brought the yawl Teepoo-
kana from Hobart to Sydney last week,
is collaborating with Will Lawson in
writing a romantic history of the whal-
ing days in the South Pacific in the
’eighties, which will be ready shortly.
McKillop’s first ship was the Splendid,
owned in Maoriland, which he
joined in 1881, and his last the
Helen, of Hobart, from which
he stepped ashore in 1910 when
the ship was laid up, owing to
low prices for whale oil. He
served in the Waterwitch, Alad-
din, Sapphire, Othello and other
M.L. and Tasmanian whale-
ships, as boat-steerer and har-
pooner, till he got his mate’s
ticket.
Mortlake (Vic.) Allens had a field day
at the Australian Sheepbreeders’ Asso-
ciation show in Melbourne last week.
W. T. Allen, father, who retired from
the Mortlake Shire Council last year after
having been a member for nearly 25 years,
judged the merino smallholders’ section,
son J. R. Allen judged the Polwarth ewes,
and two other sons, E.C. and R.G.,
figured in the sheep-judging competition,
in which the latter dead-heated for first
place. W.T. is a well-known breeder of
comeback sheep as well as a shrewd
judge. His sons are working his Boorook
property, but it will be a while yet before
they can compete with his reputation as
a handshaker with a more painful grip
than an income-tax commissioner.
“Inaha”: Brighter clothes for men was
practically advocated by Professor H. E.
Armstrong, dead in London. It prob-
ably brought him greater fame than the
awards he won in chemistry and the fact
that he was the oldest Fellow of the
Royal Society. Last year he attended a
public dinner wearing a magenta waist-
coat with one lapel mauve and the other
blue. He explained that he was trying
to break down “the indecent shyness of
the Englishman.” He yearned for the
good old days of colorful velvets and
frilly lace on men. On one occasion he
was cheered in a Madrid hotel, but not
for his dress reform. He happened to
strike the color combination of the
Spanish Republicans.
Reginald Walter Darcy Weaver, tallest
of N.S.W. Assemblymen, follows the
diminutive Levy in the Speaker’s chair.
A native of the Liverpool Plains and stock
and station agent for many years in the
Wellington district, he was an alderman of
Narrandera in 1900. In his earlier years
in the House Weaver gave “Hansard”
writer’s cramp by the rapidity of his de-
livery. His verbal repertoire was copious,
and was frequently employed to the point
of redundancy. He was always good copy
as a combatant. In a speech in 1928 he
designated Andy Lysaght as a “grim,
growling gladiator,” who “roared, raged,
railed, raved, reproved, rebuked, reviled
and with raucous voice reiterated in
sepulchral tones.” However, the Assembly
Weaver Rules.
is a p j ace D f comparative quiet these
days and Weaver’s job should not be a
hard ’ one Outside of Lang, who cer-
tairdy knows Standing Orders and pro-
cedure there is little likelihood of any-
one else getting down to the fine points of
rea j obstruction,
After 12 years, Queensland is to have
a Solicitor-General, and H. J. H. Hench-
man, Crown Solicitor since 1923, moves
up. The position had been vacant since
William Webb was elevated to the
Bench. Henchman is one of two brothers
in the law, Hereward Humphrey being a
Judge.
Lieut.-Col. L. M. Cosgrave, Canadian
trade commissioner, who has transferred
his headquarters from Melbourne to Syd-
ney, has been in his country’s commercial
service since the war, in which he finished
as 0.C., Ist Canadian Artillery Brigade.
The best compliment he had for his
Afterthoughts of Armageddon was not
that it sold out, but that it was used for
the text of a sermon. After a few years
in London he spent 11 interesting years
as trade commissioner in China before
coming to Australia in 1935. He was a
Canada’s Trade Commissioner.
group commander of the Shanghai
Volunteer Corps, the international work-
ing league of nations which keeps the
peace in the city while the enemy rights
in its backyards. It is commanded by a
British officer loaned to the Shanghai
Municipal Council—in recent yeais
Colonel Thoms, a Maorilander, who was
an Anzac at Gallipoli. Cosgrave had at
his right hand Australian Dr. Bill O Hara,
the Corps C.M.0., who doctors Chinese
dictator Chiang Kai-shek whenever the
latter gets a cold. These contacts gave
Cosgrave a good start for his Australian
career, which he is thoroughly enjoying.
M. P. (“Stalky”) Adams, who dropped
into The Bulletin office last week after
17 years abroad—he used to be a re'gu-
lar contributor to the old “Poverty
Point” page—was for years press-agent
for Wirth’s Circus, acted as advance
agent for Bailey and Grant, was F. W.
Thring’s first manager, handled “The
Birth of a Nation” film for J.C.W., and
toured Australia with his own company,
He went overseas in 1920, and has spent
15 years in U.S.A. and Canada lecturing
for the National Geographic Society and
kindred bodies. Many of his talks have
been on Australian subjects; The Bul-
letin once described him as an “un-
official Australian ambassador to the
U.S.A.” He returns with plans for lec-
ture tours and movie production. Him-
self a Yarrasider, his wife is Irma Caron,
daughter of Leon Caron, French violin-
ist and composer.
The chair of bio-chemistry and phy-
siology at Adelaide University, vacant
since Charles Martin returned to London
in 1933, has been given to Mark Mitchell,
B.Sc. of Adelaide, M.Sc. of Cambridge,
and lecturer at Adelaide since 1930.
His father came from England over 40
years ago as Prof, of Philosophy, married
one of the Barr Smith family, and since
retirement from teaching work has re-
mained as Vice-Chancellor, with a load
of outside honors.
“Bohemian”: Judge O’Regan (B.
7/7/’37) certainly hasn’t “a brogue you
could cut with a knife.” I have known
him since he was a boy, and at no time
had he the faintest trace of a South of
Ireland dialect. A native of Maoriland,
I attended a public school with 10 nation-
alities. No child had a dialect. I have
yet to meet a native-born Maorilander
with a South Ireland dialect, but I have
noticed that children of North Irish and
of Scottish parentage retained their
brogue for a few years, but lost it at
adolescence. O’Regan came into pro-
minence by contesting Inangahua with
Robert Stout. Seddon did his utmost to
return Stout, and succeeded. What en-
deared O’Regan to the Labor party was
that he was the only lawyer in Maori-
land who, during the war, had the
courage to criticise the actions of the
Massey-Ward Government. With many
points of the Labor Government’s policy
he is totally at variance.
H. M. Blair, branch manager at Sydney
of the Melbourne S.S. Co., retires at
the end of August after 35 years, and
goes on six months’ leave before returning
to act as local consultant at Sydney. He
has served the company at Melbourne,
Fremantle, Devonport and, for the last
22 years, Sydney. His successor is John
Munro, promoted from the managership
in W.A.
Keith Isles, a 34-year-old Tasmanian
who took first-class honors in his degree
examinations at Cambridge and was the
only undergraduate to receive a Rocke-
feller research fellowship in economics,
has been appointed Professor of Eco-
nomics at Swansea University, Wales. He
taught at Launceston (Tas.) High School
and at St. Peter’s College, Adelaide,
before leaving Australia on the Tinlyne
scholarship, awarded by Adelaide Uni-
versity. For six years past he has been
a lecturer in economics at Edinburgh
University.
Nearly everyone in Brighton knows
H. E. Pullman, just elected president of
the Melbourne branch of the Vic. Real
Estate and Stock Institute. He was twice
Brighton’s Mayor during the 21 years he
served as a councillor, and for 10 years
represented that municipality on the
Metropolitan Board of Works. He has
been in the estate-agency business for 40
years with Gemmell, Tuckett Pty., and
managing director for 20. Estate men
in other Australian capitals will remem-
ber him as a Vic. rep. to various inter-
state conferences. He has two sons in
the business.
Max Afford, the S.A. radio playwright,
arrived in Sydney a year ago to write
plays for the A.8.C., having won the
Commission’s Commonwealth-wide radio
play competition and also the S.A. Cen-
tenary stage-play competition. A few
weeks later, his first thriller-novel, Blood
on His Hands, was published in London
and ran into a second impression, while
another book, Death’s Mannikins, was
on the machines. A third thriller, The
Dead Are Blind, will be published in
London and New York within a few
weeks.
Alfred Consett Stephen, who, at 80,
is leading a drive to raise £20,000 for the
Sydney blind —the first time any such
widespread appeal has been made in 17
years—is a member of the well-known
Stephen, Jaques and Stephen legal firm.
He is a son of Montague Consett
Stephen; Colin Stephen, A.J.C. chair-
man, is a son of Septimus.


ASK PLEASE
FOR THREE-THREES
Z'fSbwm
0*
s tAT«
THREE-THREES
ALWAYS PLEASE
A-sar:
l k
n-
m
' 4 C
v
/f
\
THE SECRET
IS THE
THREE-THREES
BLEND
r ii
mmlM
• •
STATE EXPRESS
333
VIRGINIA
CIGARETTES
CORK TIPPED OR PLAIN
6d. :18 —l/- : 27—1/6. Also Flat Fifties. Flat Hundreds, and Round Air-tight Fifties.


ABORIGINALITIES
BEENLEIGH RUM MINE TINK IT BEST
“Mandipa”: Since the boom in scrap-
iron began “metal merchants” have
sprung up like mushrooms in country
districts; a sledge-hammer and an old
cart or truck qualifies anyone for the
calling. Recently I helped load a truck
with scrap, bought for a sum less than
the original price of several duplicate
parts included in the load. And what
memories clustered around the stuff!
There was the major portion of old
Smith’s harvester that always spoilt his
average by losing a bag to the acre, and
there was the old hand-chaffcutter that
30 years ago Tom Maloney laboriously
turned every night, while his wife fed
it. There were parts of the drill that was
used when young Bob Briggs broke the
sowing record in the pre-tractor days,
and the binder that let old Marsh down
in the T 6 harvest. While I was handling
parts of a disk that had been in a smash
old Bill O’Brien drove past in his new
£5OO car. “See this,” said my mate,
holding aloft a piece of iron ; “that’s part
of the buggy old Bill drove his bride
home in 40 years ago.”
* * =!= *
“Sakit Prut”: Cheer up, you horse-
breeders! Dobbin is well on the way to
becoming one of Australia’s best money-
makers as producer of something more
valuable than wool. Horsehair is up to
2s. 3d. per pound, and, with the practi-
cal extinction of competition from Rus-
sian and Chinese bristles, Dobbin gets
in on the ground floor of' many indus-
tries, from toys to sporran-making. The
finest and longest horsehair comes from
Westralia —allegedly on account of the
flies causing more tail-wagging and
mane-shaking there than elsewhere.
Twenty-four inches is the usual trade
length ; first and extra grades run up to
40in. or more. Violin bows need the
finest qualities, in white only. Con-
tinental breeders are trying to produce
special hair-growing strains.
* * ❖
“Notaden”: Our old and hitherto
unpopular acquaintance among native
plants, stinking Roger, may yet turn
out to have been foully libelled. During
an inspection in S.Q. the chief forest
authority of the C.S. and I.R. declared,
on his first introduction to it, that there
was a faint aroma of passion-fruit in
Roger’s odoriferous output. So far, it
has been found impossible to get the
true passion-fruit flavor into passion-fruit
essences, and ten pounds of Roger’s leaf
are to undergo treatment at the Forest
Products Laboratory in Melbourne for
the examination of their essential oils. If
prickly Moses, fat hen and Thompson’s
curse can also be induced to develop
hitherto unsuspected virtues, Australia
may shortly find herself on the door-
step of vast agricultural developments of
a surprising nature.
“Stralia”: The dopiest look I’ve ever
seen on a canine mug was a result of an
unwary mong mistaking for solid land a
backwater topped with a thick layer of
scum. He took a step on to it and dis-
appeared. I’ll swear that hound had a
sense of humor, the sheepish grin he
wore as he crawled out, too humiliated
even to shake, himself. The other sta-
tion tykes evidently thought it reflected
on them, for from then on the unfor-
tunate one was subject to constant bick-
ering, to such a degree that out of pity
we transferred him to a neighbor’s to
pick up. When he. returned the incident
had apparently blown over.
* * *
“Bull-ant Bill”: In the kelpie and the
cattle, “heeler” Australia possesses two
of the most intelligent and useful work-
ing dogs of the world. Heelers are being
exported to the Federated Malay States
as the only breed —Alsatians and all else
included—able to stand up to the wild
pigs, cunning and powerful animals, fast
as greyhounds. Arnold Wienholt, a
Queenslander who has made a world-
known name as a big-game hunter in
Africa, has testified that the heeler is the
“Now do you see what I'm driving at?"
only breed he has used for hunting in.
the African jungles which would stand
up to the conditions without getting
scared and clearing out. Both tykes are
dinkum Aussies, with a strain of dingo
in the blood.
* * * *
“Avee”: “Dingo” (B. 28/7/’37) will
find this an easier way to skin eels. Make
a 6in. slit in the skin about the centre
of the body, slip the fingers inside the
skin to grasp the body and with the other
hand catch the separated skin and pull
apart. To finish the job tear the jaws
apart, splitting the eel cleanly in halves ;
the intestines may then be removed in a
second.
# * ♦ ♦
“Emcey”: At an Ayr (N.Q.) race
meeting, Mrs. Cane Cocky had bought
a tote ticket and had borrowed Dad’s
glasses to watch her horse, “the one
with the jockey in red and black.” As
she swept the glasses round in a search-
ing arc she screamed : “Here he is! I’ve
won! I’ve won! The red and black
one’s won!” With the rest of the crowd,
I glanced round inquiringly and my old
red-and-black school hatband passed
out of her focus.
*
“Canopus”: What’s all this about
goannas coming out of their winter sleep
as poor as blackfellows’ dogs? Having
spent only about 40 years in goanna
country I feel a bit diffident in locking
horns with Pitt-street experts, but my
observation is that if you want to get
goanna fat get it early in the season.
The go. digests—yes, digests —bones
during the winter. Requiring oil I
knocked a big go. over late in the
summer and found his carryall packed
with riba of beef six to ten inches long,
and caul-fat as thin as mosquito net.
The only thing I ever found their gastric
juices to boggle at was a china egg, and
that’s about as digestible as the recent
Aboliar’s yarn about an aged abo. “feel-
ing” a live snake to see if he was killable.
* ' * * *
“Jesmond”: How far do bull-ants
travel from their nests? Walking on
the beach at Cowes (Vic.) I have seen
them feeding among the seaweed and
closely following the receding tide. At
times they feed over 500 yards from the
nearest dry sand, but I am doubtful if
many of them get back unless they rely
on the incoming tide and are washed
ashore again.
* * * *
“Cudgerie”: On Lakefield station,
near Laura (N.Q.), we found croc, tracks
about five miles from water. Scaly was
making across country from one water-
hole to another, and we tracked him up
and saw him about 100 yards from his
destination. He heard the approach of
horses and, with about 20 yards start
over melon-holey ground, beat us to
the waterhole by more than that distance,
though we had put the prads into a sharp
gallop.
❖ * ❖ *
“Dingo”: Doubt if there’s anything in
“Mandipa’s” theory of magnetism in the
human hand for controlling beasts (B.
28/7/’37). The process is more akin to
telepathy. Dogs, horses and, to a lesser
degree, cattle realise at once when they
have struck a born leader of animals, or
the reverse. Inborn flair and natural
firmness of character have a lot to do
with it, but there are aids that can be
cultivated. Among them are a deter-
mined will, a love for animals, a sense of
justice and a confident, fearless attitude,
though the last is impossible to fake
by those who really fear a beast. It’s
sound advice to avoid sudden noises and
precipitate movements ; they make both
animals and humans very touchy and
unreasonable.
* * * *
“Tockilly”: One of Nature’s curios is
the smoke-beetle. About the size of the
common black woodbug, with orange
markings, it emits a puff of smokelike
powder on being touched. Apparently a
defence measure, as the powder burns
slightly in contact with bare skin and if
breathed by a would-be attacker would
play the devil with its respiratory system,
* * * *
“A.J.8.”: The possible future evolu-
tion of the mosquito is worrying Armi-
dale (N.S.W.) folk. It has been noted
that the pests hang on a little longer
and each year return a trifle sooner. It
looks like a hardening process, with fear-
ful possibilities of an icicle-dwelling mos-
quito of two-quart capacity and blizzard-
resisting physique.
* =i= * *
“Ellenvale”: “G-r-r-r” is in the wrong
kennel when he says that dogs cannot
see for more than a hundred yards (B.
7/7/’37). This may be true of dogs that
hunt by smell, but greyhounds and other
tykes who follow their quarry by vision
can sight foxes and other game four or
five hundred yards away. I owned a
staghound that used to mount guard out-
side the back gate an hour or so before
sundown and keep watch on a dam half
a mile from the house. As soon as any
’roos showed up for their evening drink,
the old dog would set off after them,
and, although I’ll admit he had no luck
with his hunting, his sight was as good
as his intentions.
“S.A.R.”: Can’t have it that all dogs
are as short-sighted as Aboliars have
recently suggested. My kelpies are
worked entirely by signs up to quarter
of a mile or more away. By signs alone
Towser is directed to bring the jum-
bucks forward, back to the owner, right
or left, as the case may be. Sometimes
a dog is condemned for being unable to
“see more than 100 yards away” be-
cause he can’t see over small contours
in the ground which are not apparent to
the man on horseback.
* * * :|c
“McAroni”: Came across two
skeletons, grim evidence of a falcon’s
mistake. One was that of a falcon, the
other that of some smaller bird, probably
a ground-lark. The beak of the falcon
was wedged firmly through the eye-
sockets of his prey. Apparently he had
died of starvation with a meal in his
mouth.
: ! ; * * *
“Jesmond” : Who spoke of long roots?
While digging chicory on Phillip Island
(Vic.) I eased out a scotch thistle with
a root 49ft. long! The location was a
rise of drift sand with a sub. soil of
black sand which ages ago must have
been sea-bed.
* * * *
“No. 1”: Talking of hibernation (B.
28/7/’37), this process has an African
counterpart known as aestivation, which
reptiles and animals find an essential
part of their life-cycle. In early spring,
or more properly at the tail-end of the
“wet,” these creatures go flat out for
food and develop comfortable linings of
fat. When the “dry” comes, with its
unbearable heat and scarcity of water,
they sleep for a few months. Unlike
hibernators, which die in their sleep if
insufficiently fuelled for the winter, the
aestivators can stay awake and hunt at
a pinch when the “dry” catches them
lean and unfit to survive their annual
snooze.
* * * *
“Saurian”: For sheer pugnacity I’ll
back the little sun lizard against all-
comers. Only 3in. to 4in. long, he is one
of the gamest things on earth. He’s
brick-colored, and, perched on top of a
stone, catching flies, he is ready to fight
a grasshopper or a man, a blundering
bullock or a nankeen kestrel—and it
takes some punch to get away with that
last. He doesn’t look for stoush, but if
anything wants a bit of gore the “sunny”
can give him a fill of it. He swishes his
tail in imitation of a crocodile on the
warpath, snaps his teeth like miniature
steel traps, and glares balefully as he
heaves his flanks. At even weights he’s
unbeatable.
LOST.
When Bill and me were sitting at the shanty
with our pipes
Old Henry Smith comes riding by and ses to
us “By cripes!
Yer'd better spring to it, me lads, and tear
yerselves away;
The youngest Johnston kid’s bin lost since
early yesterday.”
It may have been ten minutes, but it wasn’t
more than that,
When Bill and me were cant’ring through the
scrub to Rangi Flat,
And all along the ranges, where the steep
paths lie unhid,
We saw the searchers riding in to look for
Johnston’s kid.
Sam Johnston’s had the Rangi pub for over
twenty year—
A decent sort o’ cove is Sam, as decent as his
beer—
An’ when they heard the kid was lost the
whole damn’ countryside
For twenty miles round Rangi Flat went scour-
ing far and wide.
Two days we hunted. On the third —we feared
it was the last —
We heard the whistle at the mill give one tre-
mendous blast.
We cheered and coo-eed as we sent the joyful
word,around,
“Head back again to Rangi, boys; the John-
ston kid is found.”
They found her by the river—did 1 say the kid
was four? —
They tucked her into bed and said no need to
worry more.
An’ Johnston, who’s a decent sort, he came into
the hall
And said, “Come in, and thank you, friends.
Free drinks to-night for all.”
And cripes! we made a night of it, with none
to count the cost;
With toasting Johnston and the kid we all of
us got lost;
And though long years have passed away still
Bill and me recall
The time the Johnston kid got found —and neer
was free for all.
N.S.W.
LYNDO.


“Gryllus”: I saw the first real signs
of spring in S.Q. when the martins
wheeled and twittered against the western
sky and a pair of dollar birds crossed
to the timber patch, the round wing-
marks from which their popular name
is derived glinting in the sun. Rollers,
they are called, too, from their side-swav
style of flight. Soon there will be more
of the. Australian tourists —bee-eaters,
wood swallows, pallid cuckoos with the
“Anyone else got any questions ?”
mournful call. Soon, too, the home-
stayers will tire of the bonds of flock
and family, and embark on the serious
business of mate-winning. It is a strenu-
ous affair for the lads of the bird-
village, often involving mortal combat
if the lady is sufficiently attractive. If the
faithful lover wins, then more battle for
control of the precincts of the house-
hold and its sacred contents.
* * * *
“Warble”: As the best-singing bird in
the bush the thick-headed reed-warbler
will take beating. Brown, about the
size of a large lark, he puts up his best
effort in bulrushes and similar places
from about sundown to dusk. And
what an effort it is! Multiply by 10
the best that a German roller canary can
pour out in volume, sweetness, variety
and continuous trills,
and you have him. I’ve
met him over almost
the whole of coastal
Queensland on streams
where reeds are thick.
Though I’ve never got
more than a fleeting
glimpse of him in half-
light, 1 don’t need to
count his feathers to
know him —his voice
can’t be imitated.
* * *
“Laetitia”: Torres
Strait Binghi is an
adept at drying meat,
and obtains the best re-
sults with the minimum
of effort. The smoke-
house in which he cures
his trepang is used for
preserving the dugong
meat which is carried
for weeks on the native, luggers and
cutters. After the smoking he uses the
entrail of the dugong to make a huge
sausage into which the cured meat is
packed. He also cures kingfish by simply
slicing the steaks and stringing the slices
from the rigging. The salt-laden breezes
and the tropic sun do the rest.
* # # *
“K.S.”: At the Leopold (Vic.) prop-
erty of F. Mullins, a Jonathan tree, 25
years old, bore one apple, half of which
was a Jonathan and of the other half
about four-fifths was Rome Beauty and
the remainder King David. Each sec-
tion was clearly defined from stem to
tip, and was as regular as if the parts
had been spliced in. It was many chains
away to where Rome Beauty and King
David apples were growing.
* * * *
“Gumblegubbin”: Some good marks
can be given even to the flying-fox, the
worst nocturnal enemy of the orchardist
in eastern Australia. Dissection proves
that it feeds largely on beetles and insects
when there are no fruits available. The
marauders must destroy millions of
beetles in the gum and bloodwood flower-
ing season. In the cane districts of
Queensland and on pineapple and banana
plantations flying-foxes do no harm, but
they are hunted and shot for the sake
of a few fruit-trees about the home-
steads; yet every summer the farmers
pay thousands of pounds for the destruc-
tion of the cane beetle.
*_ * * *
‘Kellick ’: An experienced diver tells
me that shark attacks on dressed men are
so rare as to be almost mythical. An-
“ I’m afraid your valves are blown.”
“ ’ Struth , those damned flies’d blow anything !”
other menace that must be relegated to
the fairy tales —in Australian waters, at
least—is the octopus. None of our varie-
ties is large enough to do any damage.
All the diver does when “menaced” is
to allow his suit to fill with air and
then release it suddenly. The bubbles
scare them away.
* * * *
“Walkabout”: Why waste “bullocky’s
joy” to poison foxes, as “Hayband” (B.
14/7/’37) suggests? Shoot a bird—a
parrot for preference—don a pair of
gloves, and after opening the bird in the
throat and the breast pour in a little
strychnine. Still wearing the gloves, for
Reynard has a stronge sense of smell as
far as humans are concerned, bury the
bird up to its neck in some likely spot.
If foxes are plentiful it’s odds on a
dead ’un not far away next morning.
$ ij: % %
“Stralia”: It is generally believed that
the owl’s vision is limited to darkness,
chiefly because he’s a nocturnal hunter,
but partly owing to his apparent tame-
ness. Actually, the bird possesses a third
eyelid, which, when drawn over the eye,
dims the light, thus enabling him to look
even old Sol in the face without a blink.
I’ve seen owls pursuing cicadas in day-
time and catching the prey on the wing in
the beak.
“Curate’s Egg”: On Badu
Island, Torres Strait, there is a
large waterhole containing both
fresh and salt water and stocked
with both fresh- and salt-water
fish. A small cascade divides
the hole, forming a thin line of
demarcation just above the
cataract. To this line fresh-
water fish, such as perch, cod
and blackfish, nose down, while
below mullet, butterfish and gar
swarm for the food which comes
over the fall. At high tides the.
barrier is almost imperceptible,
and dwellers from the respec-
tive waters mingle freely, but
at the ebb tide some instinct
seems to warn them to seek the
safety of their natural habitat,
before the small cascade again functions
as a dividing line.
* * * *
“Simon the Tanner”: Tell “Laetitia”
(B. 30/6/’37) that there is no secret about
tanning dugong hides. Two good Aus-
tralian natives, wattle and mangrove
bark, are as good as anything, plus
patience. In about nine to 12 months a
good leather of the finest texture can be
produced which is much sought after for
polishing wheels in brass foundries. I’ve
never seen it more than Jin. thick, and
it would never be very pliable unless
split down, and then the strength would
be. impaired.
* * * #
“Dingbats”: I’ve no sympathy for the
Old Country in its rabbit problem. It
was not so long ago that they would
rather be overrun with rabbits than let a
villager or “common” laborer kill one
for himself, and it wasn’t so very long
ago that my grandfather helped send
some poor devil out here for netting a
few. Though poachers were generally
condemned for taking pheasants and
hares, it was more generally rabbits they
depended on. There are farmers in Aus-
tralia now who are breeding trouble for
themselves in refusing permission to the
trappers, the reason being that they them-
selves hope to “make a few bob out of
the skins when they have time.”
**‘ # *
“Cowtime”: A Bananaland cattleman
the other day was fined for cutting off
a cow’s teats to prevent her from suck-
ing herself. It was pleaded in defence
that this form of mutilation was com-
monly done with fattening cattle that
sucked themselves, and that the operation
entailed no more suffering to the beast
than dehorning or speying. Though I’ve
knocked around among cattle and cattle-
men all my life, this is the first I’ve heard
of it.
# * * *
“Waranga”: The banana-belt has been
extended. Several years ago James Preo,
of Bega (N.S.W. South Coast), planted
bananas, and year by year the crop has
improved. His latest yield included
several stalks of well-formed fruit of
good flavor. It was once said that wheat
would not grow in Australia, and that
hereabouts sheep would not grow wool,
but hair. Possibly banana limits may
be similarly rolling back, perhaps to
the Yarra.
* * * *
“Eureka”: A South Coast (N.S.W.)
swagman always carried a hammock
made from wombat hide with the hair
left on. Slung between two trees it made
a comfortable bed, and with a possum-
skin rug for covering he didn’t care
whether it rained or snowed. They were
all the bedding that he carried, and they
served him winter and summer. Both
articles were twenty years old when I saw
them, but were still in first-class condi-
tion.
H= * * *
“Pincher”: Can’t agree with “Stralia”
(B. 28/7/’37) that the fox in his burrow
is a match for any dog. Fox-hunting in
England evolved the fox-terrier, whose
job—up to a few years ago, at least —
was to follow a fox who had gone to
earth and “bolt” him or drag him out.
But apparently this practice is giving way
to the unsporting method of digging out
the refugee. This is probably due to the
disappearance of the. genuine foxy, whose
place has been taken by the useless tykes
of the show bench.
* * * *
“Bray Rock”: In a Brisbane oyster-
pirating case a Bribie Passage oyster-
grower was called to prove origin. The
magistrate adjourned the case to enable a
mixed exhibit of Bribie-grown oysters,
including some of the witness’s own, to be
collected as a test. Handed a large tray-
ful, he unhesitatingly picked out the
products of 14 different oyster banks, and
set aside several more on the ground
that they did not come from Bribie, but
from grounds in Moreton Bay. He was
right in every instance.
ET CETERA.
“Man; garden, milk, kill, etc.” — Ad. in Wanted
column.
These poetical narrations of the work men do
on stations
Deal with stockmen, drovers, shearers and
persistently neglect
The chap who has so many different jobs to do
that when he
Finds ten minutes for a spell and smoke
commences to suspect
There’s some duty lie’s forgotten, some particu-
larly rotten
Bit of work he hates to tackle and so always
tries to shun.
But he doesn’t mean to worry, for it’s little use
to hurry
On a job that, like a woman’s, is the sort
that’s never done.
He’s up long before all others (bar the cook),
and as he smothers
Noisy yawns and looks around him at his
mates, all fast asleep,
He contrasts their styles of snoring, some in
monotones, some soaring
Up the scale till nasal whistles almost drown
the bass-notes deep.
But he knows the cows are standing at the yard
as though demanding
His arrival and by five the boss is often
poking round,
And he mutters “Well, I’ll chuck it!” as he
grabs the stool and bucket;
“Yes, I’ll bet a bit that this day week will
see me homeward-bound.”
Seven comes to see him stripping his last cow;
by eight he’s sipping
At his tea, and, breakfast eaten, he decides
that after all
There are lots of worse jobs going and, once
idle, there’s no knowing
Where the next is coming from and so he
answers to the call
Of the “missus,” who is needing him to do a bit
of weeding,
Or the homestead cook, who’s shrieking
“Bring that meat across. You’re late!”
Or the head, who sees the horses in the yard
still and enforces
His authority with “Turn ’em out! The
womenfolk can wait.”
Yes, the man who takes a billet as a rousie
and can fill it
For any lengthy period is a hero hard tb
match.
When you read “Required willing worker,
garden, milking, killing,
Etcetera,” be careful. In the Latin lies the
catch.
QUEENSLAND.
M. K. BENNETT.


INSTANT IGNITION
Price 5/- each.
Made in Australia under
Bosch Expert Supervision
PVROX
LICENCE BOSCH
SPARK PLUGS
ADAMS’ (TATTERSALL’S) HOTEL
259 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 484 GEORGE STREET.
Rooms, 6/- and 8/- per day; Breakfast, Table d’Hote or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE PUBLIC DINING ROOMS.
Lunch from 12 noon (Sunday, 12.45 p.m.), Din ner from 5.30 p.in. (Sunday, 5.45 p.m.).
Tables or Seats may be reserved by ’Phone. M 4601.
Does
Who Is Your Trustee?
he possess the knowledge and experience which the acceptance of that office
demands?
Permanent Trustee Co.
OF N.S.W., LTD
Incorporated 1888 to act as Executors and Trustees.
This Company offers unexcelled trust service, combining security and experience
with efficient administration.
Write for explanatory Booklet, sent free, on reguest.
0. E. FRIEND
CECIL H. DOYLE
J. W. BARNES, Manager.
Directors - .
F. N. YARWOOD
(Chairman)
E. V. T.
SIR THOMAS BUCKLAND
\V. G. HULL
WHITTLE, Asst. Mgr.
23-25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
Public Notice.
CORESTRY BONDS. —I pay up to £5 more
E per bond than other buyers for N.Z. Per-
petual Forests Bonds. —R. F. CORMACK, 440
Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
BRANDADERrS
m
r,**
PENS
a
Every point
guaranteed
do not experiment with imitations.
a BRANDAOER * CO.. Ltd. BIRMINGHAM. ENG
The WILDCAT
COLUMN
Commercial Bank of Australia
Dividends. Written
June, Profit, Ordinaries.* Off. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1927.. 341,711 15 p.c. =149,726 25,000 1,381,760
Premiums on new shares, £254,338.. 1,636,098
1928.. 355,019 15 p.c. =185,937 30,000 1,690,486
Premiums on new shares, £250,212.. 1,940,698
1929.. 391,624 15 p.c. =223,438 30,000 1,994,190
Premiums on new shares, £237,149.. 2,231,339
1930.. 389,841 15 p.c. =260,937 20,000 2,255,549
Premiums on new shares, £76,600.. 2,332,149
1931. . 308,450 Hi p.c.=220,569 20,000 2,315,336
1932.. 199,670 5 p.c. =lOO,OOO 10,000 2,320,312
1933.. 213,634 5 ~ ~ 100,000 20,000 2,329,252
1934.. 209,154 5 ~ ~100,000 20,000 2,333,712
1935.. 228,458 5.8„ „ 116,667 20,000 2,340,809
1936.. 234,481 5.8,, ~116,667 25,000 2,348,929
1937.. 247,435 6.6„ „ 133,333 25,000 2,353,337
*Prefs. have had 4 p.c. ( £84,694) each j’ear.
Commenting on bank profits the com-
mission in its report says:—•
For many years the banks made large
profits and built up large reserves. Since
commencement of the depression the
profits have been small and appropria-
tions to reserves negligible. But considera-
tion of the profits of the years preceding
the depression raises the question as to
whether it is desirable in the public interest
that banking profits should be regulated
or limited... .The power of the central
bank to exercise some control over inter-
est rates may tend to reduce the profits
of the trading banks; but the position of
the trading banks is now stronger than
when they were acting individually as units
of an uncontrolled system... .This should
enable the trading banks to reduce to some
extent their appropriations to reserves....
If these [actual profits] are found to exceed
what may be regarded as a fair return for
the services rendered, the Government
should consider : whether the profits of the
trading banks should be regulated or
limited as in the case of some public
utilities,
How do the C.B.A.’s figures measure
up in the light of these statements? Tak-
ing N. S. Wales gas legislation as a guide,
the bank’s declared net earnings have not
been excessive, and its shareholders have
actually received a little less than what
the law has considered to be a fair thing.
In 1918 the N. S. Wales Parliament aimed
at standardising divs. from gas cos. at
8 p.c.; fresh legislation reduced the figure
to 6 p.c. in 1932.
The old C.8.A., floated in Melbourne
in 1866, was the most severely injured
of the banks which survived the storm
of the ’nineties. It was not until 1921
that ord. shareholders got into the pic-
ture again. Meanwhile, creditors re-
ceived 20s. in the £, and the management
laid very solid foundations, upon which a
large and sound banking structure has
since been erected. As the eye sweeps
down the column in the table devoted
to dividends one is apt to get the impres-
sion that the business has been very pros-
perous, whereas only moderate returns
have been won. Since 1920 shareholders
have subscribed £3,808,682, one half
capital and the other half share pre-
miums, which were sent to reserves. That
explains most of the visible reserves and
makes the actual return to shareholders
worth no more than half the declared
rate of div. on all but £95,659 of the
£2,000,000 of ord. capital. The prefs.
(£2,117,350) shared in the new issues,
which were in the nature of a bonus to
shareholders, because the scrip com-
manded a premium in the market. Divs.
averaged 15 p.c. p.a. for the decade to
the close of accounts in 1930, followed
by 11| p.c., then 5 p.c. to 1934, 5.8 p.c.
for the next two years and 6.6 p.c. for
the last term.
A- feature of this and other banks’
figures is that, despite the recovery in
business activity, net earnings continue to
exhibit a stubbornness long since over-
come by other traders. This is largely
due to the shrinkage in interest rates and
rents generally, and to the fact that the
margin between the average rate charged
for advances and that paid for deposits
was 3.03 p.c. in 1936 as against 4.10 p.c.
in 1926 ; the lowest point (2.80 p.c.) was
reached in 1932. After setting aside
whatever was considered necessary for
contingencies, this co.’s gross earnings
(£995,457) sprang £51,010 last term.
Salaries, etc. (£606,593), took £28,564 of
the increase, and rents and other charges
(£141,429) were up £9492, leaving the net
result £12,954 better at £247,435. This
was 3.8 p.c. on shareholders’ funds (capi-
tal and reserves combined) as against 6.7
p.c. in 1929 and 7.3 p.c. in 1927. Allow-
ing for the 4 p.c. pref. div. (£84,694)
enough remained to show 8.1 p.c. on ord.
capital, compared with 7.4, 7.1, 6.2, 6.4,
5.7, 11.4 and 16.9 p.c. back to 1930.
As for contingencies, the commission
said that allowances for these should be
disclosed. It also said that “if an esti-
mate for bad and doubtful debts is
honestly made by those qualified to
make it and in possession of all the
material facts, it is not easy to suggest
any grounds upon which the estimate may
be questioned.” The only provision for
contingencies disclosed by the C.B.A. in
its published accounts is the amount
written off premises—£2s,ooo, or a shade
over 2 p.c. of the book value of the
asset concerned last year.
At 18s. 6d. the 10s.-paid ords. return
3.5 p.c. on a 6 2-3 p.c. div. basis ; the
investor who looks for 4 p.c. on his
money counts on a 7\ p.c. distribution.
Visibly the net tangible cover is 21s. 9d.
It is plain, therefore, that investors (who
back their opinion with so much of their
money as they choose to employ) do not
consider that the co. is earning an ade-
quate return on its own funds.
Balance-sheet figures reflect a strong
banking position, which has been further
strengthened by a fat export season:-
Liabilities.
1929. 1936. 1937.
Notes .. .. £244,027 £14,981 £6,195
Bills, etc. . . 1,717,110 1,306,628 1,362,586
Free deposits.. 10,182,121 11,583,116 13,565,641
Fixed deposits 13,998,925 14,280,550 15,728,136
Assets.
Liquid assets.. 8.933,551 10,370,658 13,926,565
Advances . . 22,260,876 22,211,474 22,124,707
Premises . . 904,300 1,178,436 1,190,986
A growth of £3,430,111 in deposits and
of £3,555,907 in liquids was accom-
panied by a net shrinkage of £86,767 in
advances. When the books closed, ad-
vances amounted to 75.5 p.c. of deposits
as against 85.8 p.c. at the previous bal-
ance. Depositors and others could see
45.4 p.c. of the amount coming to them
in liquids, and the bank was holding
£4 14s. Bd. of the public’s money for
every pound of its own.
Olympic Tyre and Rubber Co., Ltd.
To Re— Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
1935.. 13,945 01 p.c. = 12,324 1,621 2,445
1936.. 34,017 10 „„ 18,317 15,700 18,145
1937.. 55,259 12* „ „ 27,268 27,991 46,136
The extraordinary progress of this co.,
whose business now extends throughout
all the. Australian States and Maoriland,
is due partly to the fact that it set up
in the Australian tyre-manufacturing
business at a most opportune moment,
which has meant much so far as capi-
tal, operating and other costs and the de-
velopment of turnover are concerned.
There was no loading for goodwill, and
preliminary exes, (unstated, but appar-
ently light) were written off out of earn-
ings by the middle of 1935. It was in
1933 that the board bought a five-acre
block in the neighborhood of the West
Fitzroy railway station (Vic.) and put up
a factory thereon with an annual capa-
city of 100,000 tyres.
Over the three, and a half years to the
end of 1936 there was an increase of
nearly 150,000 in the number of motor
vehicles (699,414, excluding motor-cycles)
on the roads in Australia, and the growth
has continued since. Besides bump-
ing up demand for new equipment, this
increase is now making itself felt in re-
shoeing sales. With everything right on
the technical side and an expanding
market, Olympic’s turnover increased so
rapidly that 70,000 new pound shares
were put out at par in January, 1936, and
a further 25,000 were issued to employees
at par in October last, making paid capi-
tal £240,500 in 270,000 shares at June
30 ; there was then £29,500 still to come.
The use to which share and other
moneys have been put in the rapidly
expanding business is seen in the follow-
ing comparison of balance-sheet figures:
]935. 1936. 1937.
Paid capital .. .. £173,343 £196,000 £240,500
Overdraft . . . . 15,592 12,109' 5,125
Other liabilities’. . . . 16,560 40,780 95,190
Land and buildings . . 18,669 25,324 39,887
Plant, ete 59,248 69,447 76,841
Stocks 81,099 117,028 174,532
Debtors, etc. . . . . 55,642 66,989 124,480
To carry an extra £57,491 of debtors’ bal-
ances, etc., add £57,504 to stocks, £7394
to plant and £14,563 to land and buildings
and snip £6984 off the overdraft, the co.
gathered £44,500 of fresh share capital
and went outside for an extra £54,410 last
year; surplus earnings, including the
allowance for depreciation, provided the
balance. The improvement in the more
or less liquid surplus (£198,697) was
£65,569.
After allowing for taxation, deprecia-
tion and other contingencies, the year’s
net earnings sprang £21,242, reaching 25.3
p.c. on average capital as against 18.6 p.c.
for the previous term. The div. was lifted
from 10 p.c. to 12j p.c., the final being
at the rate of 15 p.c. p.a. The £27,991 of
the year’s net earnings that remained
lifted free reserves to £46,136.
To provide for still further expansion
of the business, those on the register at
August 17 will be offered 135,000 new £1
shares at par, one for two. When all the
money on that lot is in and the balance
of the capital outstanding at June 30 is
gathered, paid capital will be £405,000, on
which 12} p.c. will call for £50,625, or
£4634 less than was netted last year. Since
the scrip fetched 61s. in the market last
week-end, the new issue is in the nature
of a handsome bonus to shareholders.
Allowing for the final div., and after
exercising the rights to the new issue, the
new price, is 465. 4d., subject to broker-
age. The return at 465. 4d. is 5.4 p.c. on
a 12y p.c. div. basis. The cover is 225. 3d.
in net tangibles.
Equity Trustees Co. (Melb.)
To Rc- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves. serves.
£ £ £ £
1927.. 19,123 18 p.c. = 13,500 5,623 34,593
1928.. 15,801 18 „ „ 13,500 2,301 36,894
Profit on sale of freehold, £23,613.. 60,507
1929.. 24,224 18 p.c. = 13,500 10,724 71,231
1930.. 17,964 18 „ „ 13,500 4,464 75,695
Share premiums, £15,000 .. .. 90,695
1931.. 12,277 16 p.c. = 14,099 88,873
1932.. 10,072 12 ~ „ 10,800 88,145
1933.. 11,760 12 „ „ 10,800 960 89,105
1934.. 14,951 12 „ „ 10,800 4,151 93,256
1935.. 11,973 12 ~ ~ 10,800 1,173 94,429
Staff fund, £844 93,585
1936.. 12,875 12 p.c. = 10,800 2,075 95,660
Staff fund, £1339 94,321
1937.. 15,925 12 p.c. = 10,800 5,125 99,446
Written off, £2531 .. .. .. 96,915
This co., which has been in the trustee
business in Vic. for the last 49 years, has
a pleasing history, a solid financial struc-
ture and strong connections. From
among its former directors it has pro-
vided half a dozen members'of the Vic-
torian judiciary and the present Chief
Justice of the High Court of Australia.
Over the last 30 years divs. have averaged
15 p.c., sweetened with £50,000 of gift
capital, shareholders put up an extra
£30,000 in cash (one half capital and the
other half share premiums), and when the
books last closed reserves were heaped
£6915 higher than the £90,000 of paid
capital.
The co. does not disclose the volume
of trusts on hand, or separate in the
published accounts amounts received in
interest and rent from commission earn-
ings, etc. Still, the following table sug-
gests that the business is substantial and
stepping along nicely:
Gross Exes. p.c.
June, Earnings. Exes. Earnings.
1910 .. £17,131 £11,328 66.1
1920 . . 26,673 14,776 55.3
1925 . . 37,467 23,322 62.2
1928 . . 46,963 31,162 62.8
1929 . . 54,856 30,632 55.8
1930 . . 52,328 34,364 65.6
1931 . . 47,338 35,061 73.6
1932 . . 43,454 33,382 76.9
1933 . . 45,244 33,484 74.0
1934 . . 49,857 34,906 70.0
1935 . . 50,300 38,327 76.1
1936 .. 51,527 38,652 75.4
1937 . . 54,961 39,036 71.0
Gross earnings (up £3434 last term) have
continued to climb since 1932, thanks to
expansion in the volume of business, the
hardening of real-estate and other capi-
tal values, and the strengthening of in-
terest rates and rents. The year’s net
earnings were £3050 better at 17.7 p.c. on
capital, compared with 14.3, 13.3, 16.6,
13, 11.1, 14, 23.9 and 32.3 p.c. back to
1929. The div. was kept at 12 p.c.
At June 30 the capital, reserves and a
mortgage of £31,612 (there was nothing
coming to sundry creditors) were repre-
sented by freeholds, etc., £142,618 ; book
debts, £72,483 ; cash and deposit at the
Treasury, £11,617.
The 50s. shares paid to 10s.—the other
40s. is a reserve liability callable only in
the event of liquidation—are tightly held.
After sales at 28s. buyers are now offer-
ing 275. 9d.; the return at 28s. is 4.3
p.c. on a 12 p.c. div. basis, which is a
very satisfactory yield from this class of
investment. The cover is 20s. 9d. in net
tangibles.
Subject to the possibilities of Govern-
ment interference, the outlook for this
class of business is assured as anything
of the kind can be at the moment. Apart
from the small risk the cos. take when
investing their own funds, they don’t
have to risk much. If there is any doubt
about the interpretation of a will there
is always the Court to go to for instruc-
tions ; and problems associated with the
appointment of private trustees, and diffi-
culties and dangers now connected with
the administration of estates, are driving
more business into the expert care of
the trustee cos.
Mick Simmons, Ltd. (Sydney)
Writ-
ten Towards Re-
April, Profit. Dividends. Off. Reserves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1927.. 26,004 10 p.c. = 16,561 3951 5,492 18,479
1928.. 21,625 10 „ „ 16,561 3703 1,361 19,840
1929.. 17,641 8 „ ~ 13,250 3683 708 20,548
1930.. 15,145 7 „ ~ 11,594 3290 261 20,809
1931.. 10,642 4 „ „ 6,625 3023 994 21,803
Loss.
1932.. 549 Nil 3056 18,198
1933.. 6,304 Nil 3002 8,892
Profit.
1934.. 3,060 Nil 2727 833 9,225
1935.. 13,504 4 p.c. = 6,625 3031 3,848 13,073
1936.. 15,613 5 „ „ 8,281 .3365 3,967 17,040
1937.. 18,903 6 „ 9,938 3714 5,251 22,291
This co., which runs a chain of shops
and has strong connections among
suburban retailers, is Sydney’s biggest
vendor of sporting goods, tobacco and
haircuts, etc. Shareholders enjoyed a run
of 10 p.c. divs., sugared with £40,625 of
bonus scrip, for 11 years to the close
of accounts in 1922. Then price-cutting
became endemic, and for several years
the proposed realignment of George-
street, Haymarket, stood in the way of
the co. making the best use of additional
freehold it had bought. After that slump
and withdrawal of the buses aggravated
the difficulties, and shareholders were
passed by for the three years to the close
of accounts in 1934. Meanwhile, new
premises adjoining the Haymarket (head-
quarters) depot were built on the new
alignment and paid for out of compen-
sation received from the City Council,
the Brisbane branch, which had become
a drag, was closed, there has been a
partial restoration of bus services, and,
for the last three years, an absence of
price-cutting on a serious scale and steady
improvement in conditions generally.
Though competition in all the co.’s
lines is very keen, which means narrow
profit margins, the business is now in a


(Enmmmtal banking Gkrntpang
of §>gktu'g Jltmttek
(with which is amalgamated The Bank of Victoria Limited)
Incorporated in New South Wales.
Board of Directors:
JAMES ASHTON, Chairman.
OWEN E. FRIEND.
EDWARD R. KNOX, Deputy Chairman.
SIR WILLIAM VICARS, C.B.E. ORWELL PHILLIPS.
REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS FOR THE YEAR ENDED
30th JUNE, 1937.
To be presented to the Shareholders at the Ordinary General Meeting to be
held at the Head Banking House, 343 George Street, Sydney, on Tuesday,
10th August, 1937.
The Directors submit to the Shareholders the Balance-sheet as on 30th June, 1937, with a copy
of the Auditors’ Report thereon. A copy of the Profit and Loss Account is annexed.
. The profit for the year after payment of all expenses of man-
agement and taxes, and provision for rebate on current
bills and accrued interest on fixed deposits, and for bad
and doubtful debts and other contingencies, amounts to £342,041 9 8
To which is added the amount brought forward from 30th June,
1936 110,226 2 4
making a total of £452,267 12 0
from which the Directors have made the foliowing appropria-
tions:
To Interim Dividend for the half-year ended 31st Decem-
ber, 1936, at the rate of 6 per cent, per annum paid
on 29th January, 1937 £142,170 7 6
„ Reduction of Bank Premises Account amount
written off for depreciation 25,000 0 0 167,170 7 6
leaving a balance of £285,097 4 6
and now recommend —-
Payment of a dividend for the half-year ended 30th June,
1937, at the rate of 7 per cent, per annum . £165,865 8 9
leaving the amount to be carried forward 119,231 15 9 285,097 4 6
The Directors record, with great regret, the death on 22nd January last of Mr. George Judah
Cohen, who was connected with the Bank for many years, and who resigned the Chairmanship in
June, 1933; and the death on the 14th August, 1936, of Mr. Edward Ralphe Douro Hoare of the
London Board.
Mr. John Charles Denton Carlisle has joined the London Board in the stead of Mr. Hoare.
The Meeting is called upon to elect a Director consequent on the retirement, in terms of the
Articles of Association, of Mr. James Ashton, who is eligible for election, and has given the
requisite notice that he is a candidate.
It rests also with the Meeting to appoint Auditors and fix their remuneration.
The Auditors, Messrs. Harington Burrough Cowper and Francis William Hixson, now retire;
Mr. Hixson, being eligible, offers himself for re-appointment. Notice of intention to nominate
Mr. Cecil Howe Doyle, a former Auditor of the Company, to the office of Auditor, has been given by
a member to the Company pursuant to Section 113 of the Companies Act, 1936.
During the year, branches of the Bank have been established at 115 Pitt Street, Sydney, New
South “Wales (Stock Exchange Branch), and at Cairns, in the State of Queensland, while the Branch
at Wallerawang in New South Wales, has been converted into a Receiving Office.
JAMES ASHTON,
Chairman.
BALANCE SHEET, 30tk JUNE, 1937.
LIABILITIES.
£ s. d. £ s. d.
Capital
Authorised 12,000,000 0 0
in 480,000 shares of £25 each.
Issued 379,121 shares of £25
each 9,478,025 0 0
Less—
Reserve
Capital of
£ 12/10/ -
per share . 4,739,012 10 0
Paid up 4,739,012 10 0
Reserve Fund
(wholly
used in the
business of
the Bank). 4,300,000 0 0
9,039,012 10 0
Notes in Circulation 13,658 0 0
Bills in Circulation . 1,198,742 7 7
Deposits and other Liabilities—
including provision for con-
tingencies , 53,854,164 14 7
Profit and Loss Account 285,097 4 6
£64,390,674 16 8
O. E. FRIEND.) tv .
E. R. KNOX. ( Directors.
ASSETS.
£
s. d.
Coin, Bullion, Australian Notes
and Cash at Bankers 10,208,338 8 2
Money at Short Call 1,370,000 0 0
Short dated Treasury Bills of the
Commonwealth of Australia 5,450,000 0 0
British and Australian Govern-
ment Stocks and other Securi-
ties at or below market value
(including £4,000 lodged as
security with Public Authori-
ties) 5,408,025 8 7
Bills Receivable in London and
Remittances in Transit .... 2,487,320 11 10
Notes and Bills of other Banks 513,123 16 9
25,436,808 5 4
Bills Discounted and other
Debts due to the Bank—after
provision for ascertained Bad
and Doubtful Debts i
37,744,225 11 4
i
1,209,641 0 0
Bank Premises —at cost, less
amounts written off .......
£64,390,674 16 8
JAMES ASHTON, Chairman of Directors.
C. DARVALL, General Manager.
AUDITORS’ REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY LIMITED.
We have examined the above Balance Sheet and compared it with the books at the Head
Office and with the returns from the Branches. We have verified the Bills and counted the
Cash at the Head Office. We have obtained all the information and explanations we have required,
and in our opinion the Balance Sheet is properly drawn up so as to exhibit a true and correct
view of the state of the Company’s affairs according to the best of our information and the
explanations given to us, and as shown by the books of the Company.
In our opinion the Register of Members and other records which the Company is required
to keep by law or by its Articles have been properly kept.
HARINGTON B. COWPER }
Sydney, 26th July, 1937. F. W. HIXSON f
Auditors.
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT.
To Interim Dividend for the half-
• year ended 31st December,
1936, at the rate of 6 per cent,
per annum, paid on 29th Janu-
ary. 1937 £142,170 7 6
„ Reduction of Bank Premises
Account 25,000 0 0
Balance proposed to be dealt with
as follows: —-
To Dividend for
the half-year
ended 30th
June, 1937, at
the rate of 7
per cent, per
annum £165,865 8 9
„ Amount car-
ried forward . 119,231 15 9
285,097 4 6
£452,267 12 0
O. E. FRIEND.) Dirprtor „
E. R. KNOX. f Directors.
By Amount brought forward from
30th June, 1936 £110,226 2 4
„ Profit for the year ended 30th
June, 1937, after payment of
all expenses of management
(including Directors’ Fees,
£3,000) and taxes and provis-
ion for rebate on current bills
and accrued interest on fixed
deposits, and for bad and
doubtful debts and other con-
tingencies 342,041 9 8
£452,267 12 0
JAMES ASHTON, Chairman of Directors.
C. DARVALL, General Manager.
w
m
it
I
;S»S*
#
m
wm
m
A tradesman and a
GOOD CITIZEN
Edward Williamson nichols is a carpenter,
as was his father before him. A good tradesman
and a good citizen; typical of thousands of young
men in this country. He and his kind are the salt of
the earth. They do the nation’s work, live within their
means, pay their debts promptly, and provide for the
rainy day.
Mr. Nichols took out his first A.M.P. policy (for
£200) when he was 18. That called for an investment
equal to less than 1/5 a week. (Any young man in
work could do that.) Then, when he was 21, and getting
a higher wage, he added a £3OO policy. To-day he is
24 and he has arranged for another £2OO policy to begin
on his wedding day next month.
Mr. Nichols’ father died last Christmas time and
left him the proceeds of an A.M.P. policy that had grown,
with bonuses, to £827. That money is being used at
this moment in building a house. The young couple
will begin life together in comfort and security, and
isn’t that the way it should be?
Young man, you can do what Mr. Nichols is doing.
Don’t say you can’t; if you are in work you can, and
you will get endless satisfaction out of it. Ask us to
send an experienced man to talk the matter over with
you.
A.M.P. SOCIETY
The Largest Mutual Life Office in the Empire.
C. A. ELLIOTT. F.1.A., A. W. SNEDDON. F.1.A.,
Actuary. General Manager.
C. M. MARTIN,
Secretary and Chief Inspector.
D. E. WALKER,
Manager for New South Wales.
HEAD OFFICE: 87 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Branch Offices at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth and
Hobart.
District Offices throughout all States.
New Zealand Branch Office: Customhouse Quay, Wellington.
better position to earn profits than at
any time since 1929. Last term, restric-
tions on importation of certain American-
made rifles and ammunition interfered
with takings in that section of the busi-
ness. Still, the co. picked up more on
the swings than it lost on the round-
abouts. Gross earnings (£137,360) were
up £3695, and trading exes. (£118,457)
took only £405 of the increase. After
allowing for depreciation (shown as
written off in the. table), the net result
was £2941 better at 9.4 p.c. on capital
as against 7.3 p.c. and 6.3 p.c. for the
two preceding terms. The div. was lifted
a point, making it 6 p.c., the final being
at the rate of 7 p.c. p.a. There is nothing
in sight at the moment to suggest a re-
cession in earnings.
The financial position strengthened:
1919. 1930. 1936. 1937.
Paid capital.. £llO,OOO £166,008 £166,008 £166,008
Mortgage .. 133,978 131,211 130,709
Other liabilities 37,313 118,158 115,306 100,659
Freeholds .. 216,397 212,183 212,183
Plant, etc. .. 20,277 21,859 19,286 20,643
Stocks.. .. 99,287 144,980 99,383 94,703
Book debts .. 21,861 60,081 103,194 102,431
Cash, etc. . . 6,371 602 487 683
Last year a reduction of £4680 in stocks
and £763 in debtors’ balances was
accompanied by a contraction of £14,647
in the amount coming to sundry credi-
tors. Including the mortgage, the amount
coming to outsiders exceeded more or
less liquids by £33,551 when the books
closed, an improvement of £9902 over
the twelvemonth. The floating debt is
well covered.
At 17s. 9d. the fully-paid pound shares
return 6.8 p.c. on a 6.6 p.c. div. basis.
On the same basis, the lOs.-paid contribs.
yield 8 p.c. The net tangible cover is
225. Bd. per pound of paid capital.
N.Z. Loan and Mercantile
This old-established pastoral-finance
co. —it was first registered in England
in 1865, and reconstructed with heavy
loss of capital after the crash of the
’nineties —is the third-largest seller of the
Australasian wool clip ; it handles large
quantities of dairy produce, mainly in
Maoriland, and does a substantial mer-
chandising business as well. Paid capital
is now £2,500,000 in 1,000,000 5 p.c.
cum. prefs., 500,000 6| p.c. cum. prefs.
(issued in 1926) and 1,000,000 ords. The
prefs. rank for divs. and capital in the
order stated. There is also a million
of first and a like amount of second
4 p.c. mortgage debenture stock. The
first mortgage stock is redeemable at
the co.’s option at 102£ p.c., and the
second is irredeemable, except in the
event of liquidation.
Trading results over the decade to
June 30, 1936, compare as follows:
t Dividends*
r- Ords. Writ- Re-
June, Profit, p.c. p.c. p.c. Total, ten Off. serves.
£ £ £
1927. .148,992 5 6J 7£ = 136,681 10,000 547,597
1928. .176,099 5 6J 8 „ 162,500 10,000 551,196
1929. .179,716 5 6J 8 „ 162,500 10,000 558,412
1930.. 76,551 5 6J 4 „ 122,500 512,463
Transferred from contingency reserves,
£155,000 667,463
' Loss.
1931. . 148,464 Nil Nil Nil 518,999
1932.. 50,447 Nil Nil Nil 468,552
1933.. 41,427 Nil Nil Nil 427,125
Profit.
1934.. 89,038 5 Nil Nil =38,750 477,413
1935.. 17,045 5 Nil Nil =38,750 455,708
1936.. 88,262 7$ Nil Nil =75,000 468,970
* Less English Income Tax.
There has been further improvement in
earnings for the year to June 30, 1937,
but the figures have not yet been pub-
lished. At the close of accounts in 1936
arrears of pref. divs. amounted to
£125,000 on the 5 percents and to
178,750 on the percents.
To enable holders of the second prefs.
and ords. to get into the picture again
immediately, it is proposed to reconstruct
the capital account. To begin with, all
arrears of div. on the 5 p.c. pref. stock
are to be paid in cash, reserves to be
drawn upon for the purpose. Then the
second prefs. will be asked to cancel
arrears of divs. (£211,250 at June 30
last) and to exchange their £500,000 of
6-\ stock for £750,000 of ord. stock plus
£70,000 cash without deduction of British
income tax. Ord. stockholders are
asked to surrender half their holdings,
one quarter to be handed to the second
prefs. and the other quarter to be can-
celled. All this would reduce paid capita!
to £2,250,000 in 1,000,000 5 p.c. cum.
prefs. and 1,250,000 ords. An all-round
5 p.c. on that lot would call for £112,500,
or £24,238 more than was netted in
1936, and the second prefs. would re-
ceive a return equal to 7.5 p.c. on the
face value of their present holding.
Immediate prospects are that the


THE EQUITY TRUSTEES, EXECUTORS AND AGENCY
COMPANY LIMITED
472 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir EDWARD MITCHELL, K.C.M.G., K.C., Chairman.
Sir STEPHEN MORELL, K. 8., Vice-Chairman.
Sir ALAN CURRIE, K. 8., M.L.C.
E. F. HERRING, Esq., ICC. ALLAN SPOWERS, Esq.
Rt. Hon. R. G. MENZIES, P.C., K.C., M.P.
REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS.
For Presentation to the Eighty-second Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders, to be held on
Thursday, the 12th day of August, 1937.
The Directors have pleasure in submitting their Eij ’ ’
The accompanying balance sheet shows a net pr
Add amount carried forward from last year
Deduct interim dividend of 6 per cent, paid in
Leaving a balance of ..
Which it is proposed to apply as follows:
To further dividend of 6 per cent. . ..
To writing down Bourke Street property . .
To writing 10 per cent, off the furniture account
To balance to be carried forward
Shareholders are advised that Mr. C. T. Martin, Manager of the company, began six months’ leave
on Ist July before his retirement from the service of the company. Mr. F. R. Wood, Assistant Manager,
has been appointed Acting Manager.
Mr. Martin became manager on the retirement of the late Mr. Joel Fox in 1933, and has been
associated with the company for thirty-five years.
By order of the board,
F. R. WOOD, Acting Manager.
rteporr.
ofit for the year of
February last ..
“Companies Act 1928.”
BALANCE SHEET AT 30th JUNE, 1937.
LIABILITIES.
Authorised Capital—
-200,000 shares of
£2/10/ each . £500,000 0
Less unissued .. 50,000 0
£450,000 0 0
Less uncalled .. £360,000 0 0
Capital paid up in money
Mortgage of company’s
and accrued interest
Reserve fund
Profit and loss account
freehold
£90,000 0 0
31,611 11 3
80,000 0 0
25,106 19 5
£226,718 10 8
Overdrawn Trust Accounts with
Bankers, secured by the Assets
of tlie respective Trusts (see
contra)
£130,162 16 7
ASSETS.
Guarantee Fund held by the
Treasurer of Victoria .. •• £lO,OOO 0 0
Real Estate, Bourke Street pro-
perty, at cost . . .. • • 140,031 0 2
Cash in hand and at Bankers . . 1,617 2 0
Sundry Debtors for Commissions,
etc. (after providing for bad
and doubtful debts) . . . . 72,483 3 1
Fixtures, Fittings, Office Furniture
and Chattels (after providing for
depreciation) .. .. .. 2,587 5 5
£226,718 10 8
Moneys advanced to Trust Estates,
for which Assets of the Trusts
are held by the Company (see
contra) .. .. .. .. £130,162 16 7
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30th JUNE, 1937.
To Directors’ and Auditors’ Fees,
Salaries, Advertising, Stationery,
Office and other Expenses .. . . £34,264 12 2
To Rates and Taxes, including Federal
and State Income and Land Taxes 3,167 12 0
To Mortgage Interest, etc. . . .. 1,343 16 6
To Staff Provident Fund . . . . 1,338 15 9
To Balance, Net Profit for year,
carried down.. .. .. .. 14,846 4 9
£54,961 1 2
1937—2nd February.
To Interim Dividend of 6 per cent. £5,400 0 0
1937 —30th June.
To Balance .. .. .. .. 25,106 19 5
£30,506 19 5
By Commissions, Bents, Interest on
Investments, etc., after providing
for contingencies .. •. ..£54,961 1 2
The Certificate by Directors and the Auditors’ Report and Certificate, required by the Companies Act 1928,
accompany the Official Report and Balance Sheet.
Book of the Month!
THE
INCOME TAX ACTS
1936-37.
Federal and All States
(except Western Australia)
The recently-passed Federal and State Acts, aiming
at the standardisation of taxation laws, have been
collated, summarised and explained by Mr. H. Rawson
Stevenson, F.C.A. (Aust.), in one handy and com-
prehensive volume.
* This volume represents the last word in service to
the taxpayer or professional man who is concerned
in the taxation of income from one or more States, as
the new legislation has made other volumes obsolete.
CLEAR COMPREHENSIVE COMPLETE
Price. £l/1/"
Order now from the publishers —
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd.,
Box 252188, G.P.0.,
Sydney.
co. will be able to pay an all-round 5
p.c., which, on the basis of the proposed
reconstruction, should substantially
strengthen the market price of the ord.
stock.
London priced the stock on August 4
at £95 10s. 5 p.c. pref., £75 10s. p.c.
pref. and £36 10s. ord. On the basis of
these figures, the second prefs. are asked
iO convert stock valued at £377,500 on
the market into stock valued at £273,750.
They would also receive £70,000 cash,
and cancel arrears of divs. amounting to
£211,250, leaving a balance of £245,000
on the wrong side. Should the ord. stock
advance to £9O in the market, they would
be able to see a capital gain of £156,200.
On August 4 the market value of the
half-million of ord. stock to be surren-
dered and/or cancelled was £182,500.
o • n-j -T" j • *. i
Sunge. B.dor Tm Dredging, Ltd.
With of this co. at C n-
berra (F.C.T.) in January last the a-
tens turned their attention to Malaya
agam. A few years ago they passe
control of then successful tin interests
in southern Asia (excepting Penmsu a
to Anglo-Onental Mining Corp., an
embarked on what look like promising
gold-dredging ventures in Maoriland.
Sungei Bidor-nominal capital
£lBO,OOO in 15s. shares, of which 210,000
have been issued and called to ss. each
-has been formed to develop leases
(acquired by Melbourne interests in
1926) alongside the railway reserve on
the Bidor River and about 15 miles from
Kampar (F.M.S.). The property has
been very thoroughly tested. After
putting down 117 bores, A. C. Perry
selected 420 acres of an average depth
of 42ft., and assessed the value at o.Bllb.
t.o. for approximately 29,000,000 c.y. He
also found traces of fine gold—the dredge
on the next-door property saves appreci-
able amounts of gold each month. A.
H. Flowerdew checked the ground with
97 bores, assessing the average value at
0.771 b. t.o. Then W. F. McKenzie re-
bored the property and selected 510
acres, containing 32,000,000 c.y., average
depth 39ft., with a recoverable content
(by hand-washing) of 0.5171 b. t.o. per
yard. The assay value of the oxide is
not stated, but standard rate for royalty
purposes is 72 p.c. Royalty and smelt-
mg charges usually make off with about
£25 per ton of t.o. The co.’s produc-
tion quota has been assessed at 525 tons
t.o. p.a., which is expected to be increased
by the time production begins. The
co. has also made application for a
prospecting license over an adjoining
2000 acres, which will be tested in the
near future.
The dredge, equipped with 15-c.f.
buckets, and the latest tinsaving devices,
will have a capacity of well over 300,000
c.y. monthly. It is being designed by
G. H. Watson; he used to be chief
eng i ne er for Charles Ruwolt (Melb.),
and a j so designed the Kramat and eight
ot her modern machines in Malaya. Con-
tracts fof the pontoon and super struc.
ture k ave een j et , and de ii ver y j s ex _
pected early in 1938. A “satisfactory
con t ra ct” for electric-power supply has
j, een made wd h the Perak Hydro Electric
c ompanv
_., c . , ,
Bein S a Bm K lted Bldor *
Jares cannot be listed on Change until
the Y are ful \V P aid ’ , Last k -“ d
vestibule quotes were buyers 12s. 6d.,
sellers I:>S -
After considerable delay, following
early difficulties in obtaining satisfactory
tenders, then a steel shortage and paucity
of local skilled labor, Barrytown Dredg-
ing has set its 200,000-c.y.-monthly
dredge to work on its Greymouth (M.L.)
property. A trial run was hampered by
inadequate power—a full supply will not
be available till the end of the month —
but the plant is reported to be function-
ing satisfactorily. During July, 97,000
c.y. was turned over at a cost of £lBBO
for 401 oz. gold, valued at £2925. The
recovery problem, on which considerable
experimental work has been done with
a pilot plant, is expected to be overcome
within the next three months. The pro-
perty, which has been bored to contain
22,000,000 c.y. of lOd. wash with gold
at £6 an ounce, consists of a belt of
coastal swamp overlying black sands of
an average thickness of 12ft. Working
to capacity, the prospectus reckoned on
monthly yields of £8500; costs were not
expected to exceed £1750. On this basis,
there is about nine years’ work already
measured up, apart from contiguous
areas, and surplus earnings should be
sufficient to repay capital and show
51 p.c. p.a. thereon as well. For the
year to the end of March expenditure
(£5876) exceeded income by £5569, rais-
ing the debit at p. and 1. to £9429. At
balance date the dredge, etc., stood in
the books at £102,451, leases at £47,729,
other assets, including £5lll of book
debts, at £8776. Including £34,492 com-
ing to the promoter (Alluvial Gold),
there was £39,638 owing to outsiders,
Provided estimates are realised, and the
proposition has been investigated very
thoroughly, the £l-paids have possibili-
ties at 255. ; capital is £128,500.
*'*■■**
In January last Enterprise of New
Guinea Gold and Petroleum Develop-
ment, N.L., a Melbourne-controlled con-
cern, made application to the Federal
Government for a petroleum prospecting
permit in the Mandated Territory of
New Guinea. Last week the Minister in
charge of Territories refused the appli-
cation, because the Executive Council
of the Territory decided to proclaim the
area in question under Section 16 of the
Petroleum Ordinance 1936 of New
Guinea. None but the Government dare
do business in such a leisurely and off-
hand way. Section 16 of the Ordinance
gives the Administrator power to ex-
clude any area or areas from any per-
mit, license or lease. The Administrator
proposes to make such a proclamation
at an early date in respect of the area
applied for by this Enterprise Co. No
reason is given why this proclamation
should be made. The possibilities are
that the refusal has something to do
with uncontrolled areas. One result of
the Government’s action has been that
Enterprise’s £5 shares tumbled from £lO
to £1 in the market, and then recovered
to 575. 6d. last week-end.
* * . ■ ■ * *
The Chateau Tanunda deposits at
Porphyry, on the North Coolgardie field
(W.A.), were discovered by two pros-
nerfnre Wplrh rrnrl Pntte pnrlv in IQ2I
pectors, weicn and rotts, early in Ujj.
A year or so later the property (approxi-
mately 260 acres) was taken over by the
Porphyry G.M. Co., and then passed to
thp nresent owner Fdindina G M Go
me preseni owner, mjuaina U.M. CO,,
followmg a favorable report by T. R.
Victor and N. S. Stuckey in June, 1934.
To the beginning of June last approxi-
mately 25,000 tons, head value 4.25dwt.,
harl keen trpntprl hv ctrnlrina fnr Ulfior
naa been treated by sir axing tor jozuoz.
fine gold, a recovery of 2.B9dwt. per ton.
The main workings consist of a large
opencut, about 240 ft. by 80ft., and 10
shafts have been sunk, the deepest being
100 ft. In a comprehensive report on the
property, F. T. M. White, formerly g.m.
of the. mine, says present treatment by
straking alone is not doing justice to the
ore. He recommends addition of a
cyaniding unit, and that monthly plant
capacity be lifted from 3000 tons to
between 4000 and 5000 tons. With a 95
p.c. recovery, ore with a head value of
4.ldwt. would have a realisable value, of,
say, 30s. per ton, leaving only o.3dwt. in
the residues. Costs are not expected to
exceed 21s. per ton on a throughput of
4500 tons a month. On this basis a
profit of about £25,000 p.a. is indicated,
Sampling suggests that the southern por-
tion of the. ore-body is lower grade than
the northern portion. Until the west
drive from the 50ft. level, No. 3 shaft,
is pushed through into the. opencut,
there are no actual blocked-out ore re-
serves. Highly probable ore is put at
25,000 tons, averaging 5.3dwt.; 45,000
tons, 4dwt. ; 10,000 tons, 3.4dwt. ; total
80,000 tons, averaging 4.3dwt. Probable
ore between Nos. 3 and 7 shafts 35,000
tons, 4.2dwt. Possible ore between Nos.
7 and 8 shafts 65,000 tons. Mr. White
is confident that values will persist in the
sulphides at depth. The market prices
the fully-paid 4s. shares, of which 585,000
are issued, at 7d. or thereabouts,
* * * *
Spargo’s Reward, Coolgardie (W.A.),
expects to commence treatment of
oxidised ore with its initial 1500-ton-a-
-month all-sliming plant in about four or
five weeks’ time. Gold Fields Australian
Development abandoned its option over
this property not because ore values were
too poor, but because chances of further
lateral development of the ore-body
were not sufficiently encouraging. Old
mine assay plans and reports show tha f
there is about 80,000 tons of approxi-
mately Bdwt. ore above the 300 ft. level,
When funds permit, drilling will be
carried out to test continuation of the
ore-body below the 355 ft. horizon,
Meanwhile, underground development
has been deferred, money being wanted
for the treatment plant,
*** . * .
South Norseman, N.L., is reopening
Ike Lady Miller and O.K. mines at
Norseman (W.A.).
*
PATENTS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
Obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents. Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 42-2
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
a nci coiiison and Co. (Meib.).—advt.
* * * *
Australasian timber-lands and plantation
valuation surveys, milling plants, certification of
shipments. L. MACINTOSH ELLIS, B.Sc. (late
Director State Forest Service, New Zealand), Consult-
ing Forest Engineer, 8 Bond Street, Sydney.—Advt.
* * * *
j<’or a u Pump Repairs .and Replacements, get in
touch with William Adams & Company, Limited,
175 Clarence Street, Sydney. Agents for WORTll-
jjjgton pumps for ail services, write for our
latest General Catalogue.— Advt.


HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney
11l
I
■
7
IP
SB
Modern high-class accommodation
at a moderate tariff. Hot and cold
water in all rooms. Rooms with
and without private Bathrooms
and Telephones available. Meals
at moderate rates unexcelled
cuisine Dining Rooms, Grill
Room, Banquet Room and Winter-
garden, together with a first-class
orchestra.
Rooms on]y from 6/6 per night.
Telegrams, Cables and Wireless
“ METROPOLESydney,
Telephones: 8W2061 (9 lines)
86363 (4 lines)
SMOKE-OH!
There’s poetry in everything, includ-
ing the wastepaper-basket.
•2* *2* *2* *2*
“And now fresh levies are being mustard
for the war.” — “D.T.”
That’s pretty hot!
*2* 2* *2* *2*
Some of these Hollywood ballets make
it clear that America is a great navel
power.
•2* *2* *2* *2*
“Gracie Fields, the highest-paid bawler on
the English music-hall stage and screen, gives
a lot of money to charities.”
Conscience money?
•2* '2- »2* *2*
“Here is an attractive skirt in great demand.”
— Woman’s fashion note.
Attractive skirts are always in great
demand.
•2* *2* *2* b
The Brand-blotter.
“Babies born in Vancouver General Hospital
will in future have their names burnt on their
backs to eliminate the possibility of parents
getting the wrong child. This will be done with
the rays of a water-cooled quartz lamp.”
—News item.
It was branding time at Woiksburg
Hospital. Dr. Markham busily threaded
from cradle to cradle wielding his quartz-
lamp. Presently an agitated nurse, with
a baby in her arms, rushed through the
ward. “Oh, Doctor! Doctor! There’s
been a dreadful misprint.”
Dr. M. sighed as he put the hyphen in
Smythe-Browne, and rose to his feet.
“What is it?” he asked wearily.
“Instead of putting ‘Schurtz’ on this
one you’ve branded the ‘lngle’ baby
twice.”
The doc. sighed again. Then, smiling
faintly, he took up his patent quartz-
lamp. “This’ll do as well,” he murmured
as he traced an “S” before and “ts” at
the end of “Ingle.” •
Dougal.
*2* *2* *2* *2*
“Ex-Ms.P. are now on their best behavior.”
Election-nearing ?
•2* *2* *2* *2*
“Scientists are determining the best method
of conserving the world’s limited coal supply.”
They should welcome the assistance of
the N.S.W. miners.
•2* *2* *2* *2*
Repeating Decimals.
“More than 200 miners commenced a stay-in
strike at the Burwood (N.S.W.) colliery. More
than 300 wives of the miners gathered at the
pit top.”— “Daily Telegraph.”
These Newcastle miners are. peculiar
fellows. They will still be found playing
Soccer when everyone else is surfing or
playing cricket. They would never think
of going on strike for more pay —their
reason is either that a cockeyed pitboy is
jonahing their s.p. bets or that one of
the wheelers talks too much about his in-
growing toenail. Now we find that each
man has one and a half wives.
What possible use half a wife could
be remains a moot point. The sage will
say that half a wife is better than none,
ana me cynic will retort that she would
also be better than one. Certain it is that
a man could expect no quarter from
half a wife, for with only half of a
whole wife’s vocal output— i.e., 12 hours
per diem —she would have to talk twice
as fast to get a full day’s verbiage in. A
horrible outlook for even a phlegmatic
miner.
No doubt it was this marital pecu-
liarity on the northern coalfields that
gave rise to the phrase “the better half,”
though, as there is only one half, why
the “better”? It could with equal, if not
greater, truth have been “worse.” It is
also what the dailies refer to as a “sec-
tion of the community.” The custom of
acquiring an extra half wife was started
by Sporran McHaddock, an immigrant
coal-hewer, after ascertaining that it was
not possible to buy half a hat or 50 p.c.
of a corset.
The arrangement, however, has its
problems, as one subterranean toiler
found. He was the five-eighth in his foot-
ball team, and his half-wife presented
him with triplets. The poor fellow had a
nervous breakdown trying to figure out
“Better put those drawers back as you found ’em, ol boy , or the wife
will be most annoyed .”
what fraction of the £5O exemption he
could claim for each one in his income-
tax return.
Nipper.
4- *!•
“He used to break up the crockery, and once
he broke the wireless set Then he wrote to
say that he did not intend to see me again.”
Broke the news, too.
*2* *2* *2* *2*
Those who talk a great deal about
shedding their last drop of blood in de-
fence of a cause are always mighty care-
ful about the first drop.
•2* *2* *2* *2*
“Witness alleged that the constable hic-
cupped all the time. He seemed as if he had
been drinking heavily.”
As Omar might have said: “Ah, fill the
Cop: —what boots it to repeat.... ”
b b b 4*
“A smart child does not need punishment,”
says a schoolmaster.
But isn’t the object of the punishment
to make him smart?
•2* *2* *2*
The Game's the Thing.
Murphy was alone in the bar of his
bush pub when old Hamfat strode in,
duststained, near-broke, but heroic in
faith. After dismissing a pint with in-
credible swiftness, he fixed Murphy with
a fierce stare and struck a magnificent
pose.
“Laddie,” he boomed, “you now gaze
upon the only man who can play Hamlet
to perfection!”
Making sounds like a wounded buffalo,
Murphy bounded from behind the bar
and seized the horrified Hamfat by the
scruff of the neck.
“Another of thim dirty crooks, are
ye!” he yelled. “Every wake now ’tis
some lousy sharper comes along wid his
blarney tryin’ to rob th’ honest min of
this town wid some newfangled game.
T’ hell wid your Hamlet! Quoits an’
dominoes we play, an’ it’s quoits and
dominoes we’re stickin’ to! Get goin’,
ye thavin’ blackguard!”
And by way of encouragement
Murphy heaved the Thespian through the
door.
McM.
*!- ‘l*
Half the trouble in this world is caused
by gunpowder; the other half by face-
powder.
*2* *2* *J* *
“Bankrupt said he attributed losses in his
publican’s business to a too-liberal granting of
credit.”
Most Bungs demand spot cash.
•b *2* 4* *2*
“I will stand for Wilmot.” — Mr. Lyons.
But will Wilmot stand for Mr. Lyons?
4* 4* + ❖
“The most popular member of the party was
a young pugilist.”— Short story.
One would expect him to make a hit.
v 4* 4*
Customs and Inhabitants of Our
Outback.
“To see two men meeting for the first time
out on the Central Australian plains is a lesson
in the art of finesse. If one has to approach the
other to ask directions he stalks him as you
would a half-broken horse in a paddock. The
other man walks away until cornered against a
tree, when he turns —each takes off his broad-
brimmed hat—and says a ceremonious ‘good-
day.’ It will be perhaps 10 minutes before the
first man can bring himself to ask the question,
then they go their separate ways.”
—“Christian Science Monitor.”
Excellent as is this glimpse of the
social amenities of our Great Outback, it
touches only on the fringe of the subject.
In fairness to the great American public
a fuller account of some more, peculiari-
ties of life in the Australian Never-Never
needs to be given.
The social distinctions between a bag-
man and a swagman are so marked that
when they meet on the “track” (a narrow
towpath cut through the dense jungle
between outlying villages— custom for-
bids their meeting anywhere else) it de-
volves upon the bagman to step back
into the surrounding undergrowth so that
his social superior will not be caused in-
convenience, make deep obeisance with
his “bag” and utter the respectful word
“Azzitdig.”
A bagman is so called because of his
invariable habit of carrying around with
him during the summer months a bagful
of harmless reptiles (death adders—their
remarkable resemblance to a slab of
marble has earned them this name —red-
bellied black-, brown- and tiger-snakes).
Owing to the marauding nocturnal bands
of fierce platypuses and the savage native
bears which abound in both desert and
jungle, it is necessary for all roving bush-
men to sleep right alongside huge log-
fires, even on the hortest nights. As they
would otherwise be unable to sleep, the
bagmen use their bag of snakes as a
pillow. Snakes being always cold, this
enables them to secure a cool head-rest,
even though, for safety, they are regis-
tering high temperatures elsewhere over
their anatomies.
Apart from the different burdens which
they carry—a swagman puts his belong-
ings on a gaily-colored reversible rug
which he carries stretched taut on
four poles above his head, thus defying
the fierce rays of the sun—the chief dis-
similarity between bagmen and swagmen
lies in their raiment. Whereas the swag-
men affect “chaps,” a brilliantly-hued
bandanna and a bunyip-fur ten-gallon
hat from which protrudes a wallaby
feather, the humbler bagmen wear mole-
skins lined with dugong fur, pearl-but-
toned vests and cauliflower-tree hats,
while for ceremonial occasions they drape
around themselves a blanket fashioned
from the skin of a gecko.
Elaborate ritual marks the brewing of
tea on the “track.” This religious cere-
mony is performed by sundowners, mem-
bers of a nomadic sect who lie down fre-
quently throughout the day to worship
the sun.
It is a strict rule of the cult that
tea may be made only in a black-
ened “billy” (an amorphous vessel which
is handed down as an heirloom from
generation to generation). After much
salaaming, water from a creek is strained
through the sundowner’s sock into the
“billy,” so as to trap any tadpoles and
leeches. A fire is then made from wet
logs, heavy smoke being essential for the
acquiring of the. correct flavor. Across
the rim of the “billy” a branch of the
tree known as “Patterson’s curse” is
placed—no other timber is effective.
Various observers have advanced theories
regarding this practice, the most likely
being that when the tea is brewed the
branch “dips” in the same manner as a
forked rod in the hands of a water-
diviner. After a time the sundowner
peers through the smoke. If he has a com-
panion he murmurs devoutly: “Shes-
boilin’, shotterin! ” The concoction is
used for dyeing tan boots black.
A “rouseabout” is a dingo-protector
appointed by the Government. His duty
is to see that these valuable animals get
the full protection afforded them by law.
If allowed out of their compounds sheep
will savage these helpless marsupials,
which are in grave danger of becoming
extinct. At one time they were hunted
extensively for their skins, the scales of
which are beautifully marked. Owing to
the timid dingo’s hypersensitiveness, only
long, thin, nuggety men with walrus
moustaches and high-pitched voices are
chosen as rouseabouts.
It is only at corroboree-time that the
three nomadic tribes — i.e., swagmen, bag-
men and sundowners —are allowed to
throw off the restraint imposed by the
rigid differences in their social rank and
indulge in what is known as making
“damper.” This is a potpourri of flour,
mangel wurzel, limejuice and bacon
which is fried in a claypan. As the name
suggests, this latter is a crude, flat
earthenware vessel which is found scat-
tered in profusion about the jungles and
deserts of Australia. They are probably
relics of the earliest natives. The damper
is the national anti-scorbutic remedy, and
is also an effective antidote for the bite
of the deadly minah. A bagman con-
siders it a high honor to be allowed to
carry a swagman’s damper for him.
S. W. K.
Unpardonable Offence.
“He was violent when in drink. I didn’t
mind so much his cruelty, but the coarse bru-
tality of his language was prore than I could
put up with.” — Divorce evidence.
She developed a suspicion he’d a nasty
disposition,
More particularly when he’d had a
few ;
Then, with many a “damanblast,” he
would grow distinctly nasty
And lose little time in showing who
was who.
As he got more alcoholic and his temper
diabolic,
He commenced with vim to throw his
weight around,
And, as might have been expected when
his clenched fist he projected —
Well, she stopped one, or, in other
words, was “crowned.’’
To her mind this slight vexation caused
but little agitation,
But she deemed it time to terminate the
row
When, all rules of syntax flouting, with
the punch he started shouting
In the coarsest tone : “Cop that, y’r
blanky cow !”
BO.


Mt. Lyell at 44s.
To those attracted by base-metal
investments, Mt. Lyell at last
week’s price looked a fair proposi-
tion. Lyell isn’t a stock to put
all or most of one’s savings in, but
it has the possibilities of lifting the.
average income received from a
spread of investments. Other refer-
ence will be found on these pages.
DM
job
Here
you
s
hove
wont
do
to
No more recharging of a heavy
accumulator—with consequent blank
periods while this is being done—
if your new set is "AIR CELL
OPERATED."
Fitted with an Eveready Air Cell,
which with normal use gives you
over a year of uninterrupted recep-
tion—does not deteriorate when not
in use but maintains constant voltage at the correct level for
perfect reception, your radio needs no attention at all and is no
more trouble than an all-electric set....
If you buy un
AIR CELL
OPERATED RADIO
SEA4A
NV HUM OJddWOJ
EVEREADY
AIRCELL
Business, Rollery, Etc.
Mount Marshall Mines
The name of Marshall is perhaps most
familiar to old-time N. S. Wales miners
in connection with the Hawkins Hill
field, where, in the 1870’s, the Holter-
mann nugget was unearthed. The fabu-
lously rich ore gave out at 400 ft. ; but in
January, 1921, a prospectus of Hill End
Junction G.M., N.L., which had a prop-
erty adjoining Marshall’s Hill End G.M.
Co., asserted that the reason why the
gold had cut off suddenly at Rapp's
claim had been discovered by the Mar-
shall’s co. Alexander Marshall was on
the board of the new float.
W. A. J. Marshall’s name appeared on
the prospectus of Golden Mile Hill End
Syndicate in 1911. It was noticed in
other floats relative to the same field—
in 1922 in connection with Hawkins Hill
Main Reefs. In 1934 the two Marshalls
were on the board of Hawkins Hill
Centre Blocks, floated that year to carry
on the search for the missing lode. This
little historical note, doesn’t claim to be
a complete saga of the mining-float ac-
tivities of the Marshalls over the period
indicated. They were interested in cos.
besides those mentioned.
W. A. J. Marshall and Alexander
Marshall struck a div.-payer in Bis-
marck Range (Lucknow), N.L. For
a year or two this was the most pro-
lific producer of the yellow metal in
N. S. Wales, and it paid substantial divs.,
the last of them (alas!) on June 26, 1935.
Phenomenally rich ore going thousands
ounces to the ton in small patches
jpP* t^ie shares simmering interestingly
£° r some time, and on May 4, 1934, the
Sydney Morning Herald published a
photo, of W. A. J. and A. Marshall, le-
m!e.r Stevens and another looking ad-
at a lum P ° f . gold in the shape
a pudding, stated to be
worth £9OOO. Following the woiking-
°ut die nc ;h ore ’ Bismarck s 2s. 6 .
shares have fallen lo 6d., after being up to
ar ° u « d the 20s mark in their heyday
The Bismarck co. was one of the
sponsors of Mount Marshall Mines,
ff d t the public in March, 1934.
p h lode at P Mineral H ills, via Con-
. , i; YX , c H 7, J.;™™
dob ?’”/^ S ;S t fiXs
hngr.gh.s
f' ld s “ “ c S fawn fn
than 85,000 f.-p. 4s. shares and £4390 in
“r t von 4 nr „
Cash t 0 n ° feWer than SeVen vendorS ’
among w ] lom were the Bismarck and
Luckn s ow Great Northcm cos . and Mar-
sha]| (N SW ) Mines and Min Ltd .
wA \ and J Alexander Marshall were
h board of Mount Marshall,
Th ke of 110000 tons
developed, going "sdwt. to lOdwt. per
ton.” The report of the late D. M. Mar-
shall, published in the document, said:—
j never seen a ] o de with similar
characteristics, nor in conversation have I
met anyone who has.
Under the heading of “What Is Pos-
sible,” the prospectus referred to the
£8,000,000 in divs. paid by the Home-
stake mine of South Dakota, also to the
Treadwell mines, Alaska, and last, but
not least, to the Rand. The public took
110,000 shares of 4s. each. When paid
to 2s. they came on to Sydney ’Change
at a highest price of 3s. 6d. in October.
1935.
But a report and balance sheet had
already been issued on May 9 that year.
Paid capital was £27,425 ; creditors were
owed £B2B ; there was £727 left in the
till. According to chairman A. Marshall,
Considerable experimental work has
been done to ascertain the most suitable
treatment, and your directors are now
quite satisfied that a high recovery of the
gold content of the ore can be made at a
very low all-in cost.
With the present high price of gold, and
with the enormous proved tonnage of ore
available, your directors feel confident
that the co. will enter the dividend-paying
list during the current year.
That was over two years ago ; but, from
a shareholder’s viewpoint, far from prov-
ing a second Homestake, the show hasn’t
even turned out to be a grubstake.
Call notices came along instead of divs.
“Unusual composition of the ore” be-
came. one of the worries. Bismuth present
seemed to give the plant indigestion. The
co. owned a five-head battery on the
mine, and it was possessed of another
20-head of stamps 70 miles away at a
place called Mt. Tullabung ; then it was
recommended that a 10-head battery with
“exceptionally heavy stamps” 18 miles
away should be bought at a “very low
price.” That was in January, 1936, the
information accompanying a call notice.
In July that year the directors reported
that treatment difficulties had apparently
been overcome.
Towards the end of 1935 the following
information appeared in the “Bismarck
Bulletin”:
Lasseter’s Reef Area.
The Bismarck Range Co. and its associ-
ates, Bismarck Deeps Co., Mount Marshall
Co. and Lucknow Gold, N.L., have
acquired rights over one mile each along
the line of reef of this new discovery, close
to the border of Western and Central Aus-
tralia. .. .The find is regarded as one of the
most important ever made in the Com-
monwealth, and Bismarck Range Co. and
its associates are very fortunate in having
these big well-placed blocks.
Border Gold Reefs, Ltd., and some others
were interested in this area. A report by
A. H. Ellis, of the Westralian Mines De-
partment, that there was “just a sand-
stone ridge in the middle of barren sand-
hills, with no quartz or likely-looking
mineral country for 100 miles,” dashed
whatever hopes shareholders in Mount
Marshall ever had of cashing in on Las-
seter’s “reef.”
But while there’s life there always
seems to be hope. In January, 1937, share-
holders were told that “overseas capital”
was nibbling at the Mineral Hills show ;
acceptance by the nibblers would mean a
“substantial fully-paid-up interest” and a
“cash consideration of £5000.”
The Mount Marshall co. was now to
“devote its energies” to a show at Golden
Knob, Marble Bar (W.A.); 300,000 tons
of stuff was mentioned, with preliminary
values of 15dwt. “Alexander Marshall,
who acquired this property for the c 0.,”
told shareholders about it on Feb. 26 last,
and a circular was put out on March 31.
In a new location values were stated at
240 z. to the ton over a “considerable
body.”
The mining and treatment costs already
estimated at £2 per ton would not be any
greater on this high-grade ore, thus show-
ing an estimated profit of £lB per ton as
against a profit of £4 per ton on the lower
grade.
But shareholders didn’t rush in with
the call-money that had been asked for.
An issue of 200 £lO debentures, carrying
10 p.c. for two years and secured against
“all the assets of the c 0.,” was agreed
on. The debentures also carried the right
to “50 p.c. of all profits” won at Marble
Bar. Some of the issue was taken up.
With the issue of these debentures a
vigorous policy of development will be
undertaken at your mine at Marble Bar,
and your directors feel confident that early
success will be achieved to more than
compensate the disappointment so far met
with in the treatment of the ore in its big
lode at Mineral Hills.
Oye shareholders of little faith! High-
est sale of the contrib. shares this year
was at 9d., lowest 3d. For some months
there has been no market interest at all.
One share- and debenture-holder is still
waiting for the explanatory meeting to be
called as per circular dated 31/3/’37.
Recent advices from overseas indicate
that more confidence in copper shares is
apparent, and an upward movement in
prices is looked for. Stocks of the metal
in consumers’ hands have dropped, and
the average for electrolytic in London has
gently risen from £62 ss. lid. in June
to £63 10s. 3d. in July, with £65 being
quoted last week. Mt. Lyell shares have
shown very little response to the more
encouraging outlook, though a record
profit of over 30 p.c. on capital is indi-
cated for the current term. At 445. last
week, they were still 14s. below the
year’s highest quote, and only 4s. above
the lowest.
* ❖ sk *
Adelaide Steam scrip has been quiet
lately at around 31s. 6d., showing 3.8
p.c. on a 6 p.c. div. basis. For 1935-36
an interim of 2\ p.c. and final of 7>\ p.c.
was paid, making 6 p.c. for the year.
This year’s interim was 3 p.c.; if the
final isn’t 3i- p.c. or 4 p.c. the co.’s board
will be carrying prudence to an extreme.
On a 7 p.c. div. the yield would be over
4.4 p.c.
* * * *
Complaints have been heard lately,
especially from Victoria, that, where in-
terest on mortgages, Consols, etc., was re-
duced during the depression, some
restoration should now be made, especi-
ally as restorations have been granted in
the case of most salaries, wages, pensions,
etc. It sounds all right, and up to a point
the argument is fair enough ; but it must
be remembered that, where the security
is sound, most holders of “reduced”
bonds, etc., can still get par or better for
their holdings. That being the case, they
may convert into other securities on the
open market at current interest rates if
they wish. They probably wouldn’t be
any better off immediately, however. If
they bought sound ordinary shares they
might be later on.
*s• H*
Buyers offering 21s. for Davies, Coop
ords. early last week in Melbourne
couldn’t get the stock ; 21s. 6d. was even-
tually paid. Prospects were considered
in B. 28./7/’37.
* * * *
Managing-director E. G. Theodore and
Ellis H. Davies (of Charles Ruwolt Pty.,
consulting arid constructional engineers)
left for Fiji last week to inspect the
Emperor and Loloma mines and try to
push on completion of the big new treat-
ment plants. Loloma expects to be crush-
ing inside the next few weeks, Emperor,
which has had to raise some more capital,
later. Both cos.’ shares had an upward
spurt last week, the first sign of life in
the market for some time,
* * * *
Following last sales at 30s. 6d., there
were sellers of Holeproof ords. at that
figure last week, with buyers at 295. At the
middle price immediate return would be
7 p.c. The sharemarket is still somewhat
concerned about the threatened overpro-
duction of women’s hosiery mentioned by
Prestige’s chairman, and by the increase
in the Federal basic wage. Last year
Holeproof’s earnings amounted to 19 p.c.
on ord. capital. Pref. requirements and
10 p.c. to the ords. called for 63.5 p.c. of
last year’s net profits, so there is a big
margin for safety there.
Arthur Cocks (Sydney) ords. at 255.,
yielding 6.4 p.c., Holeproof (Melb.) ords.
at 305., returning 7 p.c., Kandos
Cement (Sydney), 265., 6.3 p.c., Aus-
tralian Cement (Melb.), 335., 6.1 p.c.,
Hydraulic Power (Sydney), 205., 6.5 p.c.,
and London Stores (Melb.), 31s. 6d., 6.4
p.c., are shares of fair quality offering
returns above the average at the moment.
Some aren’t active stocks ; the cement cos.
had a scare over the tariff adjustment
last year (but now seem to be doing
good business), the textile industry was
talking of possible overproduction, and
so on; but the cos. mentioned in all
cases seem reasonable propositions at
the price, some perhaps better than
others.
* * *
In Melbourne last week:
There was marked activity in Mutual Store
shares on Wednesday and Thursday, the best
part of a thousand shares changing hands
around 10s. 3d. Better results are expected
from the new management. Accounts closed
on July 31.
Ord. shares in Myttons, the electroplaters
and cutlers, etc., lifted to 375. following an-
nouncement of the new issue. Activity in
Olympic Tyres scrip was sustained at 61s.
Scrip in Wellington Alluvials, the offshoot
of B H.P. that is getting on with the equipment
of its dredge on the Macquarie (N.S.W.),
lifted to 6s. 3d., the best price seen since the
gold scare.
North Kals. sold at 205., while Lancefields
slipped back to l'2s. 2d.


The PAPUAN APINAIPI
PETROLEUM Co. Ltd.
(Incorporated 29th April, 1937, under the provisions of the Com-
panies’ Ordinances in force in the Territory of Papua, 1912-1926.)
DIRECTORS:
Walter Moffat Marks; The Hon. John Christian Watson; The
Hon. Sir Charles William Clanan Marr; William H. Taylor;
Reginald S. Haynes.
SECRETARY (Sydney Office) :
Charles A. Le Maistre Walker, 115 Pitt Street, Sydney.
The Company having gone to allotment, the Directors
announce that, after consultation with the Commonwealth Oil
Advisory Committee, they have placed an order for a drilling
plant of the most modern type.
Mr. R. S. Haynes, with his field staff, will leave Sydney for
Apinaipi (Papua) on August 21st to complete the preliminary
work in preparation for the arrival of the drilling plant from
America.
A limited number of shares only are available for subscription.
Prospectus may be obtained from the Secretary or the
Company’s Broker, Mr. H. P. Cooper, 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
The abridged prospectus has already been published.
J. W. COLLINS,
Flotation Manager, Room 512, 115 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Tel.: 8W1721.
BALANCE SHEET of
The Commercial Bank of Australia Limited
(Incorporated in Victoria )
AT 30th JUNE, 1937.
[lncluding London Office; Darwin (Northern Territory'); New Zealand, Currie (King Island), Bowen, Cairns, Home Hill, Ingham, Mackay, Proserpine and Townsville (Queensland) Branches
at 3Gth June, 1937.]
AUTHORISED CAPITAL, £5,000,000 (Divided into 300,000 Preference Shares of £lO each and 4,000,000 Ordinary Shares of 10s. each).
. J „ CAPITAL AND LIABILITIES.
Issued Capital—
, 211,735 Preference Shares paid in cash to £lO per share.. £2,117,350 0 0
4,000,000 Ordinary Shares paid in cash to 10s. per share.. 2,000,000 0 0
4,211,735
Reserve Fund (used in
the business of the Bank)
Liabilities, including provisions for Taxation and
Exchange Adjustment Reserve (used in the business of the
Bank)
Profit and Loss Account
Notes in Circulation
Bills Payable and Other
Contingencies
Government Deposits—
Not Bearing Interest
Bearing Interest
Other Deposits—
Not Bearing Interest
Bearing Interest
£4,117,350
£2,000,000
250,000
212,351
£6,579,701 5 11
6,195 0 0
1,354,453 8 7
£117,790 16 2
84,288 15 11
13,447,850 0 8
15,643,846 17 11
£29,293,776 10 8
Balances Due to Other Banks .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 8,132 8 1
Contingent Liabilities (as per contra in regard to obligations of Customers and
others on Letters of Credit, Drafts, Guarantees, etc.) .. 1,003,766 2 11
£38,246,024 16 2
ASSETS.
Coin, Bullion; Australian and Reserve Bank of New Zealand
Notes. Cash at Bankers and at Short Call in London ..
Short-dated Commonwealth Treasury Bills ..
British, Australian and New Zealand Government, Municipal
and Other Public Stocks and Funds and Other Deben-
tures (at or under market value) ..
Bills Receivable in London and Balance of Remittances and
Drafts in Transit
Notes and Bills of Other Banks .. ..
Balances Due from Other Banks
Stamps .. .. .. .. ■
£5,499,537
2,470,000
3,796,402 9 10
1,980,714 7 1
143,510 19 8
19,167 7 2
17,232 14 10
-£13,926,565 7 2
Bills Discounted and Other Advances (less provision for Bad or Doubtful
Debts) 22,124,707 6 1
Real Estate, consisting of Bank Premises (at cost, less amounts written off) .. 1,190,986 0 0
Liabilities of Customers and Others on Letters of Credit, Drafts, Guarantees,
etc., as per contra .. .. .. .. 1,003,766 2 11
£38,246,024 16 2
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT.
To Salaries and Allowances (Head Office and 536 Branches and Agencies) . . £606,592 12 8
„ Rent and Other Charges . .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 141,428 15 1
„ Net Profit for the year .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 247,435 4 8
£995,456 12 5
To Reduce Bank Premises .. .. .. £25,000 0 0
„ Interim Dividend at 4 per cent, per annum on Preference Shares paid
February, 1937 .. 42,347 0 0
„ Interim Dividend at 6 2-3 per cent per annum on Ordinary Shares paid
February. 1937 .. .. 66,666 13 4
„ Balance 212,351 5 11
£346,364 19 3
By Amount of .Profit's, after deducting Interest Accrued on Deposits and Rebate
on Bills Current,, and after making a transfer to Provisions for Contingencies,
out of which ■ account an amount has been provided for Bad and Doubtful
Debts, fluctuations in- investments, and other contingencies, and after making
provisions for Income, Land and other taxes .. .. .. .. .. £995,456 12 5
I, Percy Frederick Graham Gordon, General Manager of The Commercial Bank of Australia, Limited, do solemnly and sincerely declare that the Reserve Fund, the Exchange
Adjustment Reserve and accumulated profits are used in the business, and that the accompanying Statement and Balance Sheet of the Bank is, to the best of my knowledge and belief, true in
every particular.
Names, addresses and occupations of the persons who are the Directors of the Company at the date of the Statement: John Langley Webb, Shipowner, Melbourne; Robert
Chancellor Meares, Solicitor, Melbourne; Achalen Woolliscroft Palfreyman, Manufacturer, Melbourne;‘ William Howell Swanton, Merchant, Melbourne; Arthur Sydney Baillieu, Investor,
Melbourne.
And I make this solemn declaration conscientiously believing the same to be true, and by. virtue of the provisions of an Act of the Parliament of Victoria rendering persons making
a false declaration punishable for wilful and corrupt perjury.
Declared at Melbourne, in the State of Victoria, this 27th day of July, One thousand nine hundred and thirty-seven.
Before me—R. L. G. McCOY, P. F. G. GORDON.
A Commissioner for taking Declarations and
Affidavits under the “Evidence Act 1928.”
We, John Langley Webb, William Howell Swanton and Robert Chancellor Meares, of Melbourne, being Directors of the Commercial Bank of Australia, Limited, do hereby
certify that in our opinion the foregoing Balance Sheet is true and correct and is drawn up so as to exhibit a true and correct, view of the state of the Company’s affairs.
Dated at Melbourne this 27th day of July, 1937. On behalf of the Board.
, JOHN L, WEBB,
W. H. SWANTON,
ROBT. C. MEARES.
Comet Deeps, N.L., formerly North
Gympie Gold Deposits, has a property,
the Venus, alongside Comet Gold Mines,
Ltd., the Bernales show at Marble Bar
(W.A.). The Venus was taken up by the
co. on the advice of director Alexander
Marshall, who, with W. A. J. Marshall,
is offering himself for re-election
to the board at the co.’s meeting in
Sydney on August 12. The annual report
said that Mr. A. Marshall was of opinion
that the “now famous Comet lode was
underlying definitely towards the Venus
lease, and would enter that property at
a comparatively shallow depth (under
90ft.) from the surface.” After putting
a shaft down to 60ft., the co. acknow-
ledges a telegram from its geologist as
follows:
Re Venus consider advisable shortly
STOP SINKING AND COMMENCE CROSSCUTTING
FOR LODE STOP CONSIDER CHANCES OF
SUCCESS DISTINCTLY ENCOURAGING STOP
WILL WIRE YOU MORE FULLY SHORTLY.
The co., Wingello, Mt. Marshall and
others are interested in a “banket lode”
part of it in virgin country, near the
Venus. The latter property figures at
£6OO in the books, and added to
mine account is the sum of £2500, being
“amount voted for services ren-
dered, to be applied to taking up
shares.” Paid-up capital was £18,732 at
June 30 ; the co. had £25 in cash, owed
£l9BB for items ranging from directors’
lees, salaries, rent, etc., to printing, sta-
tionery and legal exes. ; mine considera-
tion apart from the Venus, but including
the abandoned Gympie property, is in at
£13,000. Latest quote for the f.-p. 4s.
shares is Is. 6d.
The favorable balance of trade for
1936-37, published last week, amounted
to £35,657,000 sterling, an improvement
of £12,000,000 over the figure for 1935-
36. There should be several millions
left towards strengthening our emaciated
London funds after interest, Coronation-
jaunt exes., etc., are met, and, as the
banking commission pointed out, such
strengthening is overdue. There is no-
thing in the figures to suggest that the
exchange rate may be brought down.
If such a move is ever to be considered,
it is likely to be in circumstances where
our _London funds are in a much stronger
position than they are at present.
* * SR *
Kandos Cement’s profit for 1936-37,
published late last week, was £5094
higher at £83,108, and equal to 12.3 p.c.
on capital, against 11.6 p.c. in the pre-
ceding year. A capital profit of £4044
on the sale of investments was also
shown. Being a holding co., the dis-
closed profits of Kandos do not neces-
sarily show the full extent of its equity
in the earnings of Australian Portland
Cement Pty., but only the divs., less
office exes, and taxation, received in re-
spect of the year to June 30. Kandos’s
div. was kept at 10 p.c., as anticipated
here.
Australian Cement £1 shares went as
high as 335. 3d. last week in Melbourne,
then steadied around 335. Kandos 16s.
fully-paids rose to a shade over 265. in
Sydney, representing, as usual, by far the
better buying. These are the highest
quotes seen for scrip in the holding cos.
which control Aust. Portland Pty. since
the tariff was reduced.
* * :Jc Jl:
The coal strike has had an unsettling
effect on B.H.P. shares, but last Friday
the market for the scrip showed a
stronger tone, sales at 85s. being re-
corded. Immediate yield at that figure
is around 3 p.c. on a p.c. div. basis,
but the attractions of this stock are in
the future, and perhaps not so distant
at that.
* * * *
The smart rise of £13,940 (to. £34,180)
in Melbourne Steam’s profit, which
represented 9.6 p.c. on ord. capital after
allowing for the prefs., may be a pointer
so far as the profits of other inter-State
shipping cos. are concerned. It should
certainly have been an excellent year
for most of them.
* *■ * *
Australians have had the opportunity
during the last 18 months of buying
several varieties of imported cigarettes at
10 for 9d., but Carreras’s Australian sub-
sidiary, which manufactures Craven “A”
and Piccadilly cigarettes in Victoria, has
increased its customers in spite of this
competition. Profits for the year to June
30 last were £45,130, up £13,310. Ord.
div. has been lifted to 33 1-3 p.c., against
20 p.c. and I2j p.c. in the two preceding
years. The co. was originally Sniders and
Abrahams, then G. G. Goode ; Carreras
came in during 1930.
$ H*
The lift in W. R. Carpenter’s final div.
(making 9 p.c. for the year, as against 8
p.c.) agreeably surprised the share-
market, especially in view of the uncer-
tainty raised in some minds about dam-
age. sustained during the Rabaul eruption,
With copra well up for most of the finan-
cjai year increased earnings were ex-
th*
, ’ , , ' . Tf 1
steady rather than spectacular. If copra
ee Ps at-Rs>piesent level (about £l5 a ton
Condon),:.. 10 PA: p.a. from Carpenters
seems reasonably assured.
There was a strong market for Gibson
and Howes shares last week. Following
sales at 31s. in June, scrip has been
changing hands at 335. 6d. in Sydney
and Brisbane, with buyers more notice-
able than sellers. Last year’s div. was
8 p.c., and an interim is due in December.
The 1937 year is expected to be a good
one for Queensland sugargrowers and
-millers.


SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Five out of ten runners in the Austra-
lian Hurdle field at Caulfield failed to
complete the course, but Dress Suit prob-
ably would have won if all the others
had stood up. Those that fell by the
wayside were Dakwood, Fulham,
Menelik, King Siris and King’s Game.
Dakwood was brought down by King
Siris, who crashed after turning out of
the straight for the first time.
Ted Webster, who won the G.N.
Hurdle of 1929 on Kentle for the late
L. K. S. Mackinnon, tried to land the
big race at the, week-end for knight Alan
Currie, Mackinnon’s successor as V.R.C.
chairman. Webster has the reputation
of being able to take off more weight in
a single Turkish bath visit than any con-
temporary jockey. He need not have
wasted to ride. Bridge of Mar at list.,
for he scaled only 9st. 21b. later in the
afternoon when he captured the Steeple-
chasers’ Flat on Ben’s Fort.
By taking Bridge of Mar to the front
Webster thwarted any intention Frank
Dummett may have had of making
Triteleia bowl along in the van at a
leisurely pace. The National hero never
was able to trouble Bridge of Mar, and
knocked up seven furlongs from home.
With a mile to go Webster clapped on
full steam and established a break of
between eight and ten lengths.
The remaining riders were thoroughly
alive to the peril which then faced them,
but a few moments sufficed to show that
if Bridge of Mar was to be overhauled
Dress Suit alone could do the trick.
Fullarton sat down on the S.A. gelding
to such effect that Bridge of Mar was
collared and beaten three furlongs from
the post. Dress Suit could have won by
much more than the official margin of
six lengths.
Fulham would have been third but
for falling at the last flight of batons.
The tired Triteleia temporarily moved
“into the, money,” but he could not with-
stand a challenge from Highland Fling.
Latter horse finished on three legs, and
was led back to scale by his jockey.
At 4 to 1 Dress Suit was a point better-
favorite than Fulham, his second to
Devonbrook —beaten by half a head—
at Caulfield on July 17, when quoted at
15 to 1, having impressed punters. If
the placings on that occasion had been
reversed Dress Suit must have been re-
handicapped for the Australian Hurdle.
He did not start again until Saturday,
and accordingly had the luxurious im-
post of 9st. 61b.
Dress Suit is trained by Fitzroy, who,
after being associated with the Fleming-
ton stable of W. S. Hickenbotham in
early manhood, set up in business on
his own account in Sydney, moving later
to Adelaide and finally to Melbourne.
With Blackford, a horse that he held on
lease from T. S. Ryder, the owner of
Dress Suit, Fitzroy set up an Austra-
lasian record of 4min. 34sec. for 2\ miles
over hurdles at Flemington in the
autumn of 1936.
Ben’s Fort, an Australian Steeple
aspirant, had entirely too much speed for
his Steeplechasers’ Flat rivals. He be-
longs to Steve Murphy, who was in the
limelight as a trainer last spring, when
Gay Lover lost the A.J.C. Epsom on a
protest and subsequently beat Pamelus
in the V.R.C. Cantala Stakes. Murphy
and his friends had a royal win over
Ben’s Fort, who touched 2 to 1, but
eased ultimately to “threes.” Up to date
Ben’s Fort has been a washout in the
jumping department.
Reappearing in the role of owner,
Eric Connolly annexed the first division
of the Crimea Trial with Eligible (Beau
Fils-Donna Caroline), who had not
sported silk for 18 months yet was always
favorite, starting at “threes.” Eligible
has furnished into a magnificent four-
year-old. He is a brother to Petit Fils,
who was runner-up to Donaster in the
King’s Cup last year. Rather strangely,
Eligible isn’t in any of the, big spring
events.
Second division of the Crimea Trial
went to Trafalgar Bay (8 to 1), who van-
quished the 2-to-l favorite, Lautus, by a
neck. Erua again let his backers down
in the Mornington Welter, which Gilt
(7 to 1) landed narrowly from Pheno-
menon and Riddle. James Scobie trains
Gilt for E. E. D. Clarke.
Dick Bradfield, who has Lautus, was
just touched off with El Bruno (8 to 1)
in the Balaclava Stakes, won by the very
consistent Mutable. Desert Chief shaped
miserably for a 9-to-4 favorite. Last at
the back of the course, he ran sixth in
a field of eight. He is a stallion, and has
evidently become a horse of moods.
Valiant Chief’s half-head victory over
Aurie’s Star in the Moondah Plate sug-
gests that this brilliant son of Heroic will
be one, of the galloping stars of the
spring. He met with a serious accident
at Moonee Valley nearly 12 months ago,
and had not raced since until Saturday.
The crack* jockey Keith Voitre was put
out of action at the same time. It is
hoped that, like Valiant Chief, he will
stage a successful comeback. Backers
of Valiant Chief got 7 to 2 —some did a
bit better.
At Caulfield little light was thrown on
prospects for the Australian Steeple next
Saturday. Dress Suit may complete a
double jumping victory if afforded the
opportunity. He has been raised 71b. to
lOst. 41b., which isn’t a harsh penalty.
Pride of the Plain —in the same stable,
but differently owned —is weighted at
9st. 121 b. He gave an inglorious display
over the Moonee Valley fences on July
31, when second favorite.
* * * *
Hua galloped a mile and a quarter
on the grass at Flemington in 2min.
84sec. on Tuesday of fast week. It
seems rather early for a Derby colt to
be doing swallow-catching gallops, but
his veteran trainer knows his business;
and the old E. E. D. Clarke-Scobie com-
bination is evidently going to be con-
spicuous again this season.
* * * *
Spring has set in early in Sydney. At
least, that seemed to be the case on
Saturday, when the Rosehill Club put on
a most interesting afternoon’s racing and
had perfect weather for it.
Some very nice three-year-olds were
seen in action. One, Gilltown, made a
good impression by the style in which
he disposed of his opponents in the
Maiden Handicap. He is a chestnut colt
by Excitement-Chorus, and has rich
engagements ahead. Levant, a young
Pantheon-Ellais gelding, who was backed
from fours to 5 to 2 (Gilltown was
favorite at twos), would have done better
had he been more judiciously ridden, but
he could scarcely have beaten Gilltown,
who races in Mrs. Pat Osborne’s colors.
A still better impression was made by
Silenus, a good-looking black colt held on
lease by Dr. Ritchie and trained by
W. Kelso. His race was the Three-year-
old Handicap, and he put in a long run
over the last half-mile to down Peri-
mond in the last stride, Bourbon being
a close third and Correct fourth. Captain
Oates showed heaps of pace while his
condition lasted. Bourbon was favorite ;
sixes could be got about Perimond, and
Silenus came from tens to sevens.
The divisions of the Flying Handicap
were capital races. The first went to
Moonray (5 to 2), admirably ridden by
Booth’s apprentice Sepping. This lad,
who has had successes in show-rings in
Sydney and Melbourne, jumped his
mount away well and got the advantage
of a good lead entering the straight. His
mount had enough in reserve to beat
Deputy Ruler when that rejuvenated
chestnut challenged. Prittle Prattle came
home well in third place, passing the
tiring King’s Head, and Cloudy’s fourth
was a nice effort. Curator, sweating
freely and running out of his distance,
was another that impressed.
The second division was very exciting,
heads only separating Silver Rose,
Tuckiar and El Senorita. Silver Rose
was weak in the betting, going to fives
(one man laid £2O to £2), but she finished
stoutly after running wide early and
again losing ground turning for home.
Had Tuckiar got through on the rails
earlier he would probably have defeated
her. El Senorita battled on gamely to
run third, ahead of Gene Tout, having
his first race in Australia. Might Not
was favorite ; she couldn’t pace it with
Silver Rose.
Fireman is a game fellow, and his
gameness stood to him at the finish of
the Rosehill Handicap. Ridden out, he
got home by a neck from Friar’s Switch,
who was the same distance in front of
Dulcedo. Fireman has 7st. 131 b. in the
Metrop.—he had Bst. 81b. on Saturday.
Improvement essayed to lead throughout,
but turned it up when Dulcedo headed
him turning for home. Oro, ridden
patiently in the early stages, worked into
a winning position, but could not come
on.
The Granville Novice was for appren-
tice riders. Dyer won it on The Caliph
(6 to 1), but if the youth on Valpan
could have induced him to do his best
Valpan would have been first and The
Caliph second.
A run on the rails at the right time
enabled Black Laughter (6 to 1) to score
in the Parramatta Mile. Second was
Wise Boy, who cannoned against Lath-
arna at the start, was ridden along to
get the lead with Heroic Faith, beat him
off and hung on well. Jovial Son, coming
from a long way back, ran third. There
was good money for this fellow at sevens.
Black Laughter also has 7st. 71b. in the
Epsom. He ran fourth in the last one.
* * * *
Silenus is a brother to Dermid, Hava-
spot and Falstaff. All three good gal-
lopers, but none of them stayers, nor has
the sire, Tippler, had a real stayer among
his offspring. However, Silenus looks a
good colt, and there is no questioning
his gameness after the way he battled
through his field at Rosehill when his
supporters would have sold out cheap.
His stable-companion, Bristol, by Pan-
theon-Bairn, is not so forward as Silenus,
and wasn’t sighted on Saturday. He
may possibly be the better of the pair.
* * * *
Though Stanton did not think Silver
Rose had done sufficient work to win
her division of the Flying Handicap at
Rosehill, she didn’t look as burly as
Tuckiar. In speed and resolution there
can’t be much between this pair, albeit
the mare has twice beaten the stallion.
She conceded him 31b. on Saturday, when
the margin in her favor at the finish was
a head ; in the New Year’s Gift at Rand-
wick she carried Bst., he Bst. 91b., the
difference being ihree-quarters of a
length. Silver Rose is handier in a
field, but is apt to run out a bit in the
straight—it was that which cost her the
Doncaster; Tuckiar requires time to get
up top speed and plenty of galloping
room. It should not be forgotten that
he took on King’s Head, Talking, Lough
Neagh and co. in a w.f.a. race at Rand-
wick in the autumn and finished a good
fourth, ahead of Talking. He has 7st.
121 b. in the Epsom ; Silver Rose Bst. lib.
—lolb. more than in the Doncaster. Each
must be allowed to have a good Epsom
chance.
* * * *
Gene Tout did well to run fourth in
the race Silver Rose won at Rosehill.
The Smith-Baillieu-Thompson French
horse was eagerly scanned when his atten-
dant led him round the weighing en-
closure before the race, and opinion was
favorable; he is a stylish-looking cus-
tomer, and has evidently taken kindly to
Australian conditions. His European form
suggests that he is a stayer, but he is in
the Epsom (with 9st.) and the Cantala
Stakes (Bst. 1 lib.), as well as the Metrop.
(9st.), the Caulfield Cup (Bst. 121 b.) and
the Melbourne Cup (Bst. 101 b.).
* * * *
It seems useless for 'the owner of
Aurie’s Star to continue with his plan
for running his horse in the Caulfield
Cup. Aurie’s Star is excellent at six
furlongs, but, judging on his two recent
essays, it seems improbable that he would
run out a mile in good company. Trying
to make a stayer of a natural sprinter is
an experiment with a bad turf history ;
again and again it has meant losing the
services of a good horse.
“0.G.”: Knowing “Retired Urger” (B.
4/8/’37) is talking nonsense in insisting
that the bulk of s.p. betting in Sydney is
not done, as I have said, on the nod, I
cheerfully give up trying to convince him.
But I’m prepared to wager a modest
amount .(1) that some members of The
Bulletin’s own staff have occasionally
placed s.p. bets, (2) that they have placed
them with a variety of bookies’ agents in
city and suburbs, (3) that in none of
these transactions has cash on the nail
been insisted on. That holds for the bulk
of s.p. betting in Sydney to-day, apart
from that of Saturday-afternoon pub-
punters, who, since with a few in they’re
liable to do stupid things, would be done
a good turn if Queensland’s method of
socking Bung, mentioned by “Retired
Urger,” were enforced here. But that
everything in Queensland is not as rosy
as “Retired Urger” believes is indicated
by Forgan Smith’s admission (4/8/’37)
that Queensland’s Act is not a complete
success, “owing to the lack of co-operation
by the Commonwealth Government.” The
“lack of co-operation” means, of course,
the telephone. Without control of that
neither in Queensland nor N.S.W. can
s.p. be wiped out. Notwithstanding “Re-
tired Urger” to the contrary, the position
was not identical in the two States before
the Queensland Act. Admittedly there
was a law against s.p. shops in both
States, but in Queensland it was openly
flouted right up to the passing of the Act.
In N.S.W. the police have long enforced
this part of the anti-gambling law. As a
result s.p. has been driven underground
in N. S. Wales, and is strongly organised
and carried on as I have described. Com-
pulsorily, it is now being organised
underground in Queensland.
Footbrawl
Australian-game “carnivals” usually re-
solve themselves into grim tussles be-
tween Victorians and Westralians. That
is evidently to be the case again this year,
and the Westerners have high hopes of
winning the championship of the con-
tinent. In the opening match at Perth,
their side inflicted a crushing defeat on
the South Australians. Playing with the
wind behind them they had 8-3 to 1-1 in
the first quarter and at the end it was
25-15 to 6-13. The losers meet the Vic-
torians to-day (Wednesday), and the
series will be completed with a Vic.-W.A.
match on Saturday.
The merit of the Westralian achieve-
ment was enhanced by the victory of
S.A.’s second team over Victoria’s second
lot at Adelaide, The Victorians led in
the first quarter, but after that were out-
matched, closing scores being S.A.,
15-11 ; Victoria, 11-18.
* Sis * *
Melbourne, the leading team in the
V.F.L. premiership, showed Sydney how
the Australian game should be played at
the Showground on Saturday. Stacked
up against N.S.W., the Red Legs soon
showed they knew too much about posi-
tional play and had too much pace.
Scores were 17-32 to 8-8, and 11,000
people found it an interesting exhibition.
* * * *
West still heads the Sydney Rugby
Union table. Though it was behind
Parramatta, 8-3, at lemons, Barnes’s kick-
ing for goal gave West the verdict, 20-11.
Uni. had a narrower call. Seven minutes
before the final bell St. George led the
students 23-15, but three quick tries kept
University in its position on the table,
second to West; 28-23, six tries to five.
Drummoyne and East* together, make up
“the four.” Drummoyne held off Gor-
don to win 6-nil, two tries, and East
trounced North 26-3, four tries to one.
In the other game Randwick accounted
for Manly 36-22, six tries each.
The day’s biggest Union crowd, 7000-
odd, went to the St. Joseph’s College-
Scots College game. Both teams were
unbeaten in the G.P.S. competition, and
it was virtually a. final. The Scots for-
wards pressed for the first 10 minutes,
but “Joeys” had too much speed. In the
second half they added try after try,
finishing with 27 points to nil.
* * * *
The Springboks, though they rested
some of their best players for the first
Test next Saturday, beat Wellington 29-
nil; six tries. At Auckland the Aus-
tralian Rugby Leaguers won their first
match, against M.L., 12-8, four tries to
two. Thirty thousand Saw the ’Boks;
10,000 the League game.
(Continued on page 30.)
There’s a little consolation in the show-
ing of the Australian tennis-players in
the German championships. Bromwich
beat Von Cramm 6-1, 1-6, 6-3, 2-6, 6-2.
Later he went down to McGrath in
straight sets, and Henkel downed
McGrath in the final: 1-6, 6-3, 8-6, 3-6,
6-1. McGrath and Crawford won the
doubles final.
FOR CAULFIELD.
Chatsworth Plate: Ajax; next,
John Wilkes.
Malakoff Stakes: The Trump
or The Chanter ; next, Desert Chief.
Australian Steeple: Dress Suit;
next, Jehu.
St. Aubin Welter: The Trump
or John Wilkes ; next, Eligible.
FOR MOOREFIELD.
Three-year-old Handicap: Stur-
dee; next, Birthday Boy.
Flying Welter: Tuckiar or
Deputy Ruler; next, Tuckerbox.
Moorefield Handicap: Fireman
or Jubilee Son ; next, Friar’s Switch.
Rockdale Mile: Tuckiar or
Jubilee Son; next, Heroic Faith
or Wise Boy.


• <
((
Yes,
I can tell
White
Horse
blindfold .
i”
What else has that rich and delicate fragrance!
What else can produce such a glorious glow with never a trace of
fire! No one who has learned the charm of this WHISKY is likely
to be mistaken. He can say at once, “White Horse, of course!”
EQUAL TO A FINE LIQUEUR
Screw cap flasks of convenient sizes on sale everywhere at popular prices ■


A cheap tyre gauge is seldom accurate after the newness has
worn off. But a Kismet Gauge, being scrupulously
manufactured to the finest limits of accuracy, guaran-
tees years of reliable service. Although it is priced
a shilling or two more than an ordinary gauge, it
costs less in the long run, because it keeps
its accuracy and neat finish all the time.
Factory Representative:
JOHN ARNOLD, P.O. Box 71. Melbourne, Australia.
•iISMEf
W TYRE
STANDARD
GAUGES
CADET
WILLIAM TURNER & BRO., LTD., Eyre Works, Sheffield I _L_J£ngland.
De Luxe 1
Model,
The
‘Popular
Priced”
Model,
7/6
"silver edge' 1 '
BRAKE LINING
TRADE MARK (J REGISTERED . THE RAYBESTOS CO.
MOpRlfTfP *SAVE
<fcUlOl£KtU. IM C KMT DWIW
money/
There is never any true economy in articles;
particularly does this apply to your motor vehicle’s brakes.
Your safety and the safety of pedestrians depend upon the
reliability of your brakes.
For over twenty years “RAYBESTOS” Brake Linings have main-
tained a name for quality, building up a reputation for consistency of
product unrivalled by any other firm. It will prove cheaper in the long run
if you ask for your brakes to be relined with “RAYBESTOS.”
RAYBESTOS-BELACO, LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Factory Rep.: JOHN ARNOLD, G.P.O. Box 71, Melbourne. Vic.
MO nnfl Rnffpi'f’V
. 7
Pleasantries of the Bigger Beef
No doubt there’s ground for the wide-
spread belief that the g eneral battery and
• ~
assault called wrestling is all showman-
ship and kidstakes. Food foi such a
notion was the case of a wrestler who,
on tour, was taken by the physique of a
lumbering lout noticed in a visited
town. Presently the youth, in a distant
city, blossomed forth as a great strangle
expert, or something of the kind, and
some of the most thrilling encounters of
the season were between him and the
wrestler who had lured him into the
game. Out of wrestling hours, the lout
was as often as not to be found where
those who had previously known him
would have expected to find him—in
the wrestler’s kitchen, washing-up.
Further, after a recent Monday night’s
encounter susceptible souls were, shocked
to read that one of the Bigger Beef, Don
Noland, had massaged another, Vic
Christie, in the face with a cigar butt,
so that Mr. Christie was “apparently
blinded.” On the Saturday night a week
later the same souls, had they been lis-
tening, could have heard 2KY’s wire-
less man chatting pleasantly about an
encounter in which Mr. Christie again
figured, while those in the. spectators’
seats included “our old friend Don
Noland, sitting with
Mrs. Christie.” Ap-
parently all had
been forgiven ; but
people reading and
hearing these items
might be forgiven,
too, for putting two
and two together
and adding up the
worst.
All the present
commentator has to
add on this last is
that if the Christie-
Noland encounter
was all “showman-
ship” these must be
two of the most
finished actors
that ever lived, in fact, after watching
a dozen encounters this season this com-
mentator has only twice left the stadium
feeling that an affair had been arranged.
No doubt there was plenty of “kid-
stakes” about it all once, and even now
a wrestle without some playing to the
gallery simply wouldn’t be a wrestle, but
this season, if never before, a fierce ele-
ment has come into it. For example, the
contest between Noland and Jack Fors-
gren last week.
Make a note of the weights, it’s im-
portant—Noland, 16st. 51b. ; Forsgren,
16st. 111 b. With the opening bell the con-
test began as an all-in battery and assault.
The pair were extra-well matched ; each
is a first-class wrestler, and each is cap-
able of weathering a terrific amount of
punishment. They are built of iron, and
would need to be to take what they
gave each other in the first five eight-
minute rounds. The worst of it was
probably inflicted with the forearm jolt.
This is a blow delivered with the fore-
arm —between wrist and elbow —either
brought up as an uppercut under the
heart or chin or chopped down on the
side or back of the neck. With the
uppercut variety of it one Scotty Mc-
Intyre lifted an opponent clean out of
a ring in Sydney. In the encounter here
under discussion, it was probably em-
ployed 40 or 50 times in the opening five
rounds —each time a blow to knock an
ordinary man off the face of the earth.
Even this pair were by now giving
signs of the battering. There was a fall
in the fifth, to Forsgren—a good wrest-
ling fall, with a body press. But what
had happened up to now was child’s
play to the ensuing assault. In the sixth
Forsgren, having felled Noland with a
forearm jolt, introduced a diversion
cheerfully called the pancake. That is,
*■* No and prone he heaved his whale-
like bulk high into the air and came
down in a s » uaning positionj near . l7st .
wa jj op on Noland’s body,
The pr£S£nt scribe once kn£W one
]yjj ck y the Bull, who could lie prone on
blue metal and let a dray-wheel pass over
bis back without anything being crushed
unless it was the metal, but even Micky
might well have burst under one of these
“pancakes.” Noland survived several of
them. Shortly afterwards he treated
Forsgren to a taste of another casual
pleasantry- the pile-driver. In this, the
victim is lifted in a grip about the knees
and driven straight down into the canvas,
head first, as a pile. It is such convinc-
ing acting that hitherto it had concluded
ever Y contest in which this writer a
seen 11 applied, the recipient being una e
to continue.
After it, Forsgren was left, out to it, in
the middle of the ring. There his second
worked hard on him, got him at last
back to his corner, and had him revived
to some, state of consciousness when the
bell went for the seventh,
Noland, from the effort, looked in
little better shape. Some grappling on the
mat enabled Forsgren to recover a bit
more. On their feet again, he got
“ Don't look, NOW; but who's th' blonde in the front row?”
Noland’s head over the top rope, lifted
the middle rope up over Noland’s head
and, with Noland held in that twist, lifted
him by the legs and threw him out of
the ring. Fortunately, Noland was
caught by the throat —otherwise he might
have gone on and hurt somebody in the
ringside seats. Men may possibly have
escaped from the gallows by having such
a neck as Noland’s. Released by the ref.
he now blundered back into the ring, to
be at once felled by a forearm jolt across
the back of the neck that would have
stiffened an ox. The Boston crab now
easily applied by Forsgren, and this little
histrionic exhibition was over.
Footbrawl
The Springboks tacked another win to
their list with a mid-week victory at
Palmerston North against Manawatu,
39-3 —six tries and eight goals, from
Brand’s veldschoen —to a try. The 1921
’Boks just scraped home against Mana-
watu, try to nil.
* * * *
“Hororata”: The Maoriland authori-
ties and the Springboks have had a
friendly argument on the subject of
playing time, the visitors desiring the
halves to be of 35 minutes in all matches
save Tests, which would remain at 40
minutes each way. In South Africa the
custom is to play to these times, but in
Maoriland 40 minutes is the rule. This
is the period for a half laid down by the
international rules, though provision is
made for alteration by mutual agree-
ment. The change is not to be made.
Maorilanders like value for their money,
and the loss of 10 minutes’ play would
be too awful to think about.
H* H*
“Murrayfield”: The next Imperial
Rugby Conference is down for South
Africa next year. There will be a Brit-
ish team in that country then, and from
it and the management will come the
British delegation. According to the
Sydney press the “Australian Union”
will try again to have the League kick-
into-touch rule allowed. There is no
“Australian Union.” This country is
never likely to get much forrarder in the
world’s Rugby until control of the
game is vested in a genuine all-Australia
authority.
* * * *
“Ehoa”: It is likely that the Spring-
boks will meet a Maori team at Rotorua
on September 22. When the programme
was first published the Maoris declined
to meet the visitors in any way, reasons
given being the behavior of the 1921
’Boks to the Maoris at Rotorua and the
banning by the South African Union of
players of Maori blood in the All-Black
team which visited South Africa. All
seems peaceful now, and Henare says he
will receive the visitors with nose rub-
bing, dried shark and other Maori
amenities. All the same, writer will ven-
ture a small wager that the Rotorua
game will be a welter for willingness if
it comes off.
* * * *
“Old Q.”: It is sickening to hear
Rugby Union officials attempting to ex-
cuse hoodlumism in Sydney football by
saying that it is “a he-man’s game” and
that it is impossible for hefty young
men in the stress of a hard match to
avoid punching and kicking the opposi-
tion when their emotions become too
much for them. I played in over a
dozen matches against N.S.W. and All-
Black teams, and in all my experience
never saw a deliberate foul perpetrated
or anything remotely resembling a gen-
eral box-on. Nor can I recall one man
being sent off in a club match for plug-
ugly tactics. Referees were strict in those
days and were usually men who had
been first-class players themselves. Clubs
did not encourage the tough element to
join or remain if it discovered itself.
Best of all, there was no slobbering adu-
lation in the press. That, in my opinion,
has been responsible for most of the
trouble by inducing swelled-head in raw
youths suddenly elevated to the status
of national heroes.
* * * *
“Gate”: By way of improving con-
ditions the English Rugby League is said
to be considering the separation of its
clubs into divisions like the Soccer folk.
It is hoped that the desire to keep from
being dropped to a lower division and
the chance of being promoted to a higher
one will improve the standard of the
game.
* * *
“Outside Right”: Wakened from their
habitual slumber by the unexpected suc-
cess of the English Soccer tour, the round
ball authorities are to turn the boom into
permanent enthusiasm for their game.
Schemes include an Australian tourney
next year, and South African and English
teams are to be invited for 1939 and
1940. If they handle the matter well the
Soccer folk have a splendid chance of
lifting the game to the pinnacle it de-
serves, in N.S.W. especially.
* * * *
“Shrewsbury”: The English Soccer
players left Fremantle for home after
playing a part which should have a far-
reaching influence on the round-ball game
in Australia if it is properly exploited.
Before disbanding they are to play a
game against a professional side.
Racquet and Bawl
“Top Spin”: The cancellation by the
Australian L.T.A. of the proposed visit
of an English women’s team to Australia
because the players are not up to the
required standard has infuriated the
ladies and their friends. All arrange-
ments had been made, and the team was
to leave ’Frisco for Australia in October.
The incident is unfortunate and wholly
due to the vacillating tactics of the
crowd this end. Time the women were
allowed to run their own affairs. They
have shown more than once that they
make a better job of it than the men.
* * * *
“Top Spin”: Hopman and Schwartz
have accepted the. invitation from Tokio
to play in the Japanese championships
in November. The pair, with Mrs. Hop-
man, also a player of note, are scheduled
to leave on August 28. They will meet
Von Cramm and Henkel in the champion-
ships, and will probably be shipmates
with them to Australia.
:jc 9,: $
“Cut Shot”: Pat O’Hara Wood, who
is to coach four selected young tennis
players in Sydney, is cutting out match
play and will make his charges concen-
trate on stroke production. The chosen


:7;
Mai n
liiiiiPi
mm®
m
fern: >
W:
m
Ml
%
wmmmm
mm
A REAL OLYMPIAN!
J. E. LOVELOCK {New Zealand)
who established a new world's record of
3 min. 47.8 secs, for the 1500 Metres
Run at the Berlin Olympic Games ,
displayed remarkable endurance, speed
and stamina.
His display at the Berlin Olym-
piad was regarded as the most
technically perfect of all com-
peting athletes.
A runner of Lovelock’s calibre
must be thoroughly sound in
wind and limb to perform so
efficiently, and his performance
proved his physical capabilities
just as safe performance and long
service prove the superiority of—
Olympic Tyres
For Cars, Trucks, Cycles !
f : i
mb*
7x9-
If
■*l m
i "
tr 'V-i
:<> W
V/2S?
II
tJ
■
x
:>
'
C
In Sydney it’s 2L If it Her
In London it’s Davies ... in New York
it’s Hart Schaffner & Marx. ... In Sydney
it’s G. L. Fuller. In every large city the
world over there is just one outstanding name
when it comes to fine craftsmanship in the
art of clothes ... a name that will guide
you faithfully through fashion’s intricate little
fancies . . . that will set you right with
those finer points that make or mar a suit.
In dress clothes particularly, the name Fuller
ranks No. 1. See us for your next.
(B.li.Mrr&Cn.Ctii.
EIGHTY-FOUR PITT STREET, SYDNEY
Country visitors are cordially invited to inspect our large range of materials.
four are Gilchrist, Pails, Sidwell and
Bennett. Wood will handle each boy
separately; group coaching is, in his
opinion, a waste of time.
Miscellaneous
Sopwith failed in his second attempt
to capture the America’s Cup. His
Endeavour IT. was easily beaten in the
first four heats by the Vanderbilt boat
Ranger. Some American newspapermen
guyed the Briton cruelly, one suggesting
that all his craft needed was another
crew and an engine.
* * * *
“Ride Off”: The N.S.W. polo heads
have invited the Australian and M.L.
polo associations to compete in Aus-
tralia for the Australasian Gold Cup
next April as part of the 150th anniver-
sary spree. Maoriland is counted as
certain to send a team. Polo followers
should be particularly interested in the
South Australians, who a few years ago
could muster a very formidable team.
Victorian polo also is of a high standard.
* * * *
“Bamboo”: The revival of polo in
N.S.W. made itself evident of late at
Wellington in a tourney which drew
country clubs that had been in modest
retirement. In the final for the Welling-
ton Cup Forbes downed Gilgandra 3-2,
and Narromine, after tying with Boree
with two wins, a loss and a draw each,
was awarded the Wilson Cup on the
averages.
H* sfc ;|:
“Spare Walton”: One of the most fan-
tastic competitions fixed for the 150th
anniversary come-all-ye is a big-game
fishing tourney. The N.S.W. Govern-
ment promised to put up £lOOO for
prizes, and the fisherfolk, who, with their
experience of fish yarns, should have
known better, advertised this last fact
in booklets sent all over the world. Pretty
well every notorious fish-slayer from
Zane Grey down was getting set for the
trip to Sydney when the Government
made up its mind to cut its dole to £5OO.
The obvious remedy is for the fish folk to
round up the £5OO that got away.
* * * *
“The Gaffer”: Brudder Johnsing, the
holder of the world’s high jump record,
is forming a coon athletic team to in
vade the Old World and make its for-
tune. Jesse Owens, Metcalfe, Edwards
(Canuck) and other top-flight cullud
gemmum have agreed to join, and the
team will probably open at the Students'
Games in Paris in October, all the mem-
bers being graduates of one university
or another. Mistah Johnsing makes no
secret of the fact that he is out, not for
glory but to raise enough dahlars to
enable him to wed the girl of his heart.
‘Aigburth”: English batsmen seem to
have been smitten with a scoring epi-
demic. In one week, in addition to
other centuryrmakers of less note, two
men topped the 300-mark in county
cricket. One was that fine batsman
Paynter, whose omission from Allen’s
side after his good showing in Tests with
Jardine’s surprised Australians. He made
322 against Sussex—by far the biggest
score recorded by a Lancashire profes-
sional—MacLaren’s 424 against Somerset
is the record for a Red Rose amateur.
The other player was R. H. Moore,
skipper of Hants, who collected 316 from
Warwickshire. He has been a free scorer
for his county, and last season finished
with a four-figure aggregate.
* * * *
“Kennington”: So far the Maoriland
cricketers have not shaped up to ex-
pectations in England. They have drawn
one Test match and lost one and have
a chance to even things up in the third
and last, which starts at the Oval on
August 14. The bowling has been
pretty good, but among the batsmen
there are no successors to Dempster and
Dacre. These, players could not be
called on to help their cobbers, for,
under modern rules, they would then
have been unable to play for their Eng-
lish counties until after another two
years’ residence.
* * * *
“Iconoclast”: I note that one of the
opposing team in a match in England
presented the Australian girls with a
cake made by her own hands. As one
with a wide experience of cookery as
practised by young females I see here
a splendid substitute for the alleged
“ashes” which are supposed to follow
the fortunes of Australian-English male
cricket. The cake would need no pro-
tecting urn. There would be no call
for fireproof safes or glass covers, for
the alleged comestible, unless it differs
widely from its kind, would be like the
monument Horace visualised for himself,
“more enduring than brass.” It has been
forecast that English-Australian women’s
cricket is now a permanent fact. That
being so, we have a permanent trophy
for the tourney ready to hand.
* * * *
“Five Ways”: E. C. Bensted, one of
the best all-rounders Queensland cricket
has produced, is to take up umpiring. In
Shield matches Bensted made 2327 runs
and took 70 wickets for his. State. Only
F. C. Thompson, with 2458, has made
more runs.
* * * *
“GabbaJ’: After being dropped last
season o'wing to the visit of the English
team the Colts match between N.S.W. and
Queensland will be revived at Brisbane
on October 29. Since the matches began
in 1928, they have produced players who
have reached inter-State and even inter-
national rank, N.S.W. instances of this
last including McCabe, Fairfax, Chipper-
field and Robinson, while the Queensland
list includes Thurlow, Allen and Tallon.
As usual the Queenslanders will hold
their country tourney before the inter-
state game, and hope to spring one or
two dark horses on the southerners as
a result.
:|: ' sjc
“Centre Half”: The All-Black hockey
team, after a pipe-opener which ended
in a draw with a Manly side in Sydney,
departed for the wilds of N.S.W. to
sharpen its teeth on the country teams
preparatory to the big stuff in the Aus-
tralian tourney at Sydney. During the
country tour the visitors won 12 matches
off the reel, scoring 75 goals to 11. The
match with Australia for the Manning
Shield will be the star turn of the Sydney
meeting. M.L. won the first match for
this trophy in 1925, and has hung on to
the pot ever since.
* * * .*
“Korero”: When Australian ana
Maoriland skiers meet on Kosciusko
J. Loughlin (Harvard), R. E. Durrance,
D. Bradley and S. Bradley (Dartmouth),
will turn the competitions into triangular
international championships. Durrance
is the leading American downhill and
slalom runner —he has held the national
title for both—and the others are good
all-rounders. America’s eastern States
haven’t a great deal of open mountain
ski-ing, as most of the snow country is
heavily timbered and ski trails have to
be specially cut. But it didn’t take the
visitors long to accustom themselves to
Maoriland’s alpine conditions, and in
competition with Maoriland runners at
Mount Cook they showed the local
boys the way home.


SHADOW
SHOWS
“Cafe Metropole.”
CAFE PROPRIETOR, Adolphe Menjou
SPURIOUS RUSSIAN PRINCE,
Tyrone Power
GENUINE DITTO .... Gregory Ratoff
AMERICAN HEIRESS, Loretta Young
HER POP Charles Winninger
This is Menjou’s film from start to
finish. He is Figaro, of centuries of
stage tradition, cheerful, resourceful,
utterly unscrupulous, brought up to date
and made Victor, the proprietor of a
gorgeous but perennially-nearly-bankrupt
cafe. Staking all on a hand at baccarat,
Victor wins, but the loser, a young
American, after giving a cheque, has to
confess he is penniless. Victor immedi-
ately conceives the plan of putting the
young fellow forward as Prince Pianoff
and marrying him to a millionaire’s
daughter, the cheque to be recouped
from the marriage settlement. The plan
suffers continual upsets. The real Prince
Pianoff is a waiter in Victor’s cafe, and
has to be bribed. The young American
falls in love with the girl and refuses
to go through with the plot. Victor,
not a bit abashed, rushes to the million-
aire, exposes the imposture, and collects
a million francs, which he says he paid
to buy off the impostor. But the girl
insists that she wasn’t deceived at any
stage, and insists on going through with
Mischa Auer exerts his charm in “Pick a Star”;Sydney Civic.
the marriage. Whole truth having been
revealed, Pop relents and orders Victor
to return his cheque, which is to be his
wedding gift. Victor returns the value-
less cheque, and, just as millionaire is
about to raise Cain, averts his wrath by
setting before him his favorite dish.
The comedy moves swiftly, there is
food for chuckles in Power’s feigned
Russian accent and Ratoff’s more
genuine inflections, Menjou is at his
diplomatic zenith, and Winninger, Helen
Westley, F. Gottschalk (an attorney),
Andre Cheron (always a croupier) and
a dozen others keep the fun simmering.
At Sydney State.
“Please. Teacher.”
SCHOOLMARMS .. Vera Pearce and
Bertha Belmore
MUSICOMEDY CHARACTER,
Bobbie Howes
SOMETHING TO DO
WITH THE SCHOOL. .Wylie Watson
An English musicomedy effort in the
stage manner. It might be snappy and
mirth-provoking on the stage, for the
principals are all old hands there, but it
drags tediously on the screen, while the
production further suffers from the
usual English fault of not taking fantas-
tic happenings seriously enough ; there is
no attempt to make them realistic. How-
ever, the piece enshrines a trio by Miss
Pearce, Howes and Watson, burlesquing
Amy Woodford Finden’s “Indian Love
Lyrics” very funnily, and it must be re-
corded that Howes brings to the screen
the best enunciated singing voice that has
yet been trapped on the margin of the
celluloid. Miss Pearce, well known to
Australia, where she was born, and Wylie
Watson, of the northern burr, are miles
better than their parts. At Sydney State.
“Michael Strogoff.”
COURIER Anton Wallbrook
TARTAR GENERAL, Akim Tamiroff
WOMEN IN THE CASE .. Elizabeth
Allan and Margot Grahame
COMIC WAR CORRE-
SPONDENT Eric Blore
The first English translation of this
Jules Verne opus appeared, if memory
serves, in the “Boys’ Own Paper,” where
it passed muster as a rousing melodra-
matic yarn, full of action and adventure.
All the best incidents are included in
the screen version, which is well-acted
and staged with lavish magnificence, but
the story ceases to carry an ounce of
conviction. Strogoff, the heroic young
courier, is charged by the Tsar with the
duty of carrying to the commander at
Irkutsk, Siberia, instructions to oppose
the Tartar uprising
—a sort of chart
outlining a com-
plete plan of ac-
tion. It is true the
Tartars have
chopped down the
telegraph poles,
but even so the
general at Irkutsk
must have known
something about
the rising and, un-
less completely im-
becile, had some
notions about cop-
ing with it. The
poor courier has to
struggle through
Russia and Siberia
without any aid
from the Imperial
Government. He
plays a lone hand,
while spies dog his footsteps, am-
bush him, search his luggage, knock him
on the head, and generally frustrate his
silly mission at every turn. To compli-
cate matters he is an inveterate entangler
with women.
Wallbrook plays the part of the
courier well, Tamiroff is as jovially sin-
ister as ever and other parts are filled as
capably as possible-—Verne’s caricature of
an English war correspondent couldn’t be
made recognisable without a major oper-
ation. At Sydney Mayfair.
‘‘You Can’t Buy Luck.”
SUPERSTITIOUS SPORTSMAN,
Onslow Stevens
GOLD-DIGGER Maxime Jennings
NICE GIRL Helen Mack
A Nat Gouldish fairy-tale about a rac-
ing big-shot who went about playing
Santa Claus because he believed it
brought him luck. Towards the end of
a rather tedious series of sequences deal-
ing with an entertainment in an orphan-
age the affair becomes a thriller, with
sportsman accused of murder of gold-
digger and nice girl (a schoolmarm at
the orphanage) sleuthing round to get
the evidence that will save him from the
chair. Of course she does. At Sydney
Mayfair.
“Pick a Star.”
HOLLYWOOD ASPIRANT,
Lyda Roberti
STAR Mischa Auer
HELPLESS HELPERS .. Jack Haley,
Patsy Kelly
THEMSELVES Laurel and Hardy
A lot of fun has been infused into this
light satire on Hollywood “glamor.” The
deficiencies of the story —summed up it’s
merely that some friends assist a small-
town radio singer to “crash” Hollywood
—have been offset by a variety of
comedy, with some snappy ballets thrown
in for good measure.
The Laurel and Hardy highlight is
the artistic execution of the lugubrious
Mr. Laurel on the
embonpoint of Mr.
Hardy, after the
latter has swal-
lowed a small
mouth-organ. The
flood of melody
would do credit to
Georg Schnee-
voigt. Patsy Kelly
uses her raucous
voice in comical
complaint about
everything, and
Mischa Auer does
full justice to a
juicy role—that of
a colossally vain
star. Lyda Roberti
has looks, charm
and a fair voice in
that order of merit,
and Jack Haley is
moderately good
in a dumb-bell part. It’s at Sydney Civic.
“Song of the City.”
NOT-SO-WEALTHY
PLAYBOY Jeffry Dean
FISHERMAN’S DAUGHTER,
Margaret Lindsay
HER FIANCE /. Carrol Naish
There is one excellent phase in this
otherwise ordinary film —the faithfully-
drawn family life in a “little Italy” fishing
community.
The weak story concerns a playboy
gambler who clumsily falls off a ferry
steamer to be rescued and cared for by
an Italian fisherman and his son. In
order to escape the amorous attentions
of a pestiferous millionairess, he accepts
employment on the Italian’s fishing boat.
Romance springs up between the new-
comer and his employer’s daughter, and
as she is already engaged to a wealthy
compatriot this provides a problem, the
solving of which involves a badly-handled
fire at sea.
Acting honors go to J. Carrol Naish
as the daughter’s voluble lover. Mar-
garet Lindsay has either suddenly ac-
quired an excellent soprano voice or
some well-faked “ghosting” has been per-
Wayne Morris being summed up by Ed
G. Robinson in “Kid Galahad”; Sydney
Capitol.
petrated. The hero is nothing out of the
box, but Nat Pendleton is at home in the
role of a mentally heavy net-hauler. At
Sydney Civic.
“Lady from Nowhere.”
WITNESS HUNTED BY
GANGSTERS Mary Astor
HICK REPORTER .. Charles Quigley
BIG-SHOT GANGSTER. .Norman Willis
Theme of this thriller is that it is just
about as dangerous in Uncle Sam’s
domain to witness a killing by a gangster
as to be the victim. As soon as Polly
Dunlop, hotel manicurist, saw murder
done she took train to an isolated village
where she secured a job as a waitress in
the local restaurant. To complicate
matters and give the film half an hour’s
more footage she gave herself out to be
a notorious young society woman who
had left her home, and for whom a mil-
Laurel produces a new sort of music in “Pick a Star.”
lionaire father was offering substantial
rewards —hardly the ideal manner of
securing undisturbed retreat. Of course,
eventually the gangsters hound her down,
and they are just taking her off for a
ride when the local volunteers, intent on
rewards, intercept her abductors. Mil-
lionaire father arrives, declares girl isn’t
his daughter, and her ride to death is
about to be, resumed when the handsome
young hero barges up on a tractor and
the bad men, for whom there is an even
bigger reward than for the absconding
heiress, are taken off to clink.
Almost any screen actress save Miss
Astor could win oodles of sympathy
while undergoing the terrible experiences
of the fugitive manicurist. As it is, her
rescue comes as an anticlimax that spoils
a good story. At Sydney Lyric.
“Kid Galahad.”
BOXING PROMOTER,
Ed G. Robinson
HIS NASTY RIVAL, Humphrey Bogart
HIS LIGHT-O’-LOVE .... Bette Davis
HIS CHAMP. Wayne Morris
HIS SISTER Jane Bryan
To see hefty six-footers blench before
the concentrated ferocity of sft. 2in. Ed
G. as he grabs them by the coat lapels
and shakes them till their bicuspids
rattle, what time his letter-box-flap mouth
snaps to an ominous slit, is to witness
one. of screen-world’s wonders; and be-
hind Humphrey Bogart’s rugged exterior
lurks a menace of cobra-like coldness.
With these leading rival camps in the
boxing game things spark on all cylinders,
and as there’s considerable realistic scrap-
ping among the 200-pounders there’s
always something of interest going on.
Ed G. “discovers” a cove who can
punch, and brings him through devious
ways up to challenging standard. Mr.
Bogart has the reigning champ. In the
title fight both promoters agree to back
the titleholder, but the little man, in re-
venge for past wrongs, double-crosses his
rival, the aftermath being settled in a
splurge of bullets. Cupid, despite uncon-
genial surroundings, gets in some good
work. At Sydney Capitol.
“Four Days’ Wonder.”
FUGITIVE FLAPPER .. Jeanne Dante
HER PROTECTOR .. Kenneth Howell
THRILLER WRITER .. Alan Mowbray
This screen version of A. A. Milne’s
comedy of errors is poor stuff. Unin-
spired directing and mediocre interpre-
tation have weakened a weak story. A
few clever Milnean touches shine through,
such as the fastidious author of murder
thrillers who swoons away at the first


1937 BELONGS TO
'ikccwile of
am
mm
iiiKK.-:
m
(6) Silent, Smooth Performance
The silence of the 1937 Oldsmobile is really astounding. Perhaps the
greatest feature contributing to this is the special insulation of the Unisteel
“Turret Top” safety body by Holden. This is so completely insulated
against outside noise that when you enter and close the door, you “ shut out
the world.” Being virtually one solid-steel unit, this body is permanently
free from squeaks and rattles. Then the Oldsmobile’s engine is silent, too
—so silent that it is difficult to know when it is running.
By every possible advancement, the 1937 Oldsmobile has been built to ride
smoothly -r- irrespective of road conditions. Independent Front-wheel
Springing (Knee-action) prevents road-shocks being passed through to the
chassis and body. The engine is mounted at three points on live, resilient
rubber to absorb any slight engine-vibration. And Cross Centre-control
Steering prevents any vibration being transmitted to the driver.
Add to these important features, Oldsmobile’s outstanding safety, comfort,
economy and driving ease, and you have value beyond comparison. Prove
this for yourself by a trial. Your Dealer will gladly arrange to place a car at
your disposal.
OLDSMOBILE
Consult Your Local Authorised Oldsmobile Dealer
Sold and Serviced by Oldsmobile Dealers all over Australia
Ask about the Confiden-
tial G.M.A.C. Conveni-
ent Payment Plan.
Your Money Goes
Farther in a G.M.-H.
Car.
General Motors-Hoiden’s Ltd.
(Incorporated in Victoria)
“AIR - CHIEF”
CAR RADIO
Instal an “ AIR-
CHIEF” two-unit
Car Radio, especially
designed for the
1937 Oldsmobile,
featuring exclusive
speaker and control
unit to match instru-
ment panel; separate
Bin. dynamic speaker
if desired.
sight or mention of blood, and an in-
genious mix-up of characters which
causes much confusion at the denoue-
ment. But yawns come, and the in-
troduction of a comic sleuth fails to
stem them; in fact, Walter Catlett’s
clowning gives the piece a more
soporific touch.
Jeanne Dante, a newcomer to the
screen, is the flapper who flees to rural
parts under the mistaken impression that
she is responsible for her aunt’s death
in suspicious circs. Of the shy, refined
type, and easy on eye and ear, she gives
promise of something better. At Sydney
Capitol.
STAGE SHOWS.
Schneevoigt’s Concerts.
Highlights of the orchestral concert
conducted by Georg Schneevoigt at Syd-
ney Town Hall on Thursday night were
the Dvorak ’Cello Concerto in B Minor,
with Edmund Kurtz as soloist, and the
most vigorous and rousing performance
Sydney has yet heard of the Ravel
“Bolero.” In the concerto first violin
Lionel Lawson shared honors with the
’cellist. Both musicians showed to their
very best advantage.
The programme was opened with one
of the Mahler Symphonies—the Fifth —
a long, turgid, incoherent, heavily orches-
trated outpouring that sometimes sug-
gests Schubert, sometimes Beethoven,
sometimes Wagner, and is subject' to
trumpet-dominated passions and panics
that come from nowhere and vanish
mysteriously. Shakspeare’s line about the
tale “full of sound and fury, signifying
nothing” irresistibly comes to mind. The
A.B.C. chose this gem for the delectation
of its listeners, who were cut off at the
meter before the Dvorak and Ravel
numbers came along. Restitution was
made, however, at a special studio session
on Sunday evening, when both numbers
were very capably transmitted.
On Saturday night the experiment of
a programme of the Younger Strauss’s
operetta and dance music was tried at
Sydney Town Hall, and it wasn’t very
successful. Beethoven and other high-
browed contemporaries generously
admitted the Elder Strauss’s pre-eminence
in his own light line, but the Man of Bonn
would have squirmed if he had had to sit
through an evening of such tritely-
orchestrated sugar plums. Schneevoigt
seemed to feel that his audience had had
enough of it before the end of the pro-
gramme, for he cut out the last number
and substituted the “Valse Triste” and
“Finlandia” of Sibelius, music from quite
another world. If the conductor had
schemed the whole thing to give a boost
to his illustrious countryman he couldn’t
have succeeded better.
•F *F *F*
Kurtz ’Cello Recital.
Edmund Kurtz and his ’cello made
themselves well known to Australasia a
lew years ago when he toured with the
Spivakovskys. At his recital at Sydney
Con. last week the ’cellist produced a
better tone than ever and played with
even more dexterity than in his earlier
appearances, but his musical manner is
still austere —so reined and snaffled that
when (as in the Rachmaninoff G Minor
Sonata) he. has most beautifully prepared
the scaffolding for a great climax, it
doesn’t come off. Better, of course, than
the sloppy sentimentality of a Van Biene,
but Kurtz, like Mischa Elman, some-
times gives an impression of being pity-
ingly superior to the composer whose
work he is interpreting. Beethoven and
Bach, whom he plays coldly but very
gracefully, are impervious to such treat-
ment, and Gabriel Faure does not suffer,
but Italians such as Frescobaldi and
Tessarini cannot be sapped of their
sunshine with impunity.
•F *F *F *F
The Weintraubs.
Diversifying the current programme
at Sydney Mayfair are the Weintraubs
an American jazz-band organisation
that includes good vaudeville talent. They
put on a snappy comedy medley of the
sort made familiar by the Marcus Show
—tap-dancing, singing, burlesques, wise-
cracks—and rush through it with such
gusto that it’s hard to credit it occupies
nearly half an hour.
CURRENT ARTBURSTS.
British Loan Collection.
The Sydney National Gallery at pres-
ent houses a loan collection of paintings
from London’s National and Tate Gal-
leries, including work by almost all the
great old British masters and by a great
many of the Victorians, the Edwardians
and the moderns. Here may be seen the
originals of such oft-reproduced can-
vases as Bramley’s “Hopeless Dawn ”
Purse’s “Return from the Ride,”
Millais’s “The Knight Errant,” Pettie’s
“The Vigil,” Orchardson’s “The First
Cloud,” Waterhouse’s “Consulting the
Oracle and Walker’s “The Plough.”
Of these the two last-named make the
strongest impression—the Waterhouse
because in its transcendentally academic
way it holds a veritable mirror up to its
many-figured subject, and the Walker be-
cause of the grandeur of the sunlit cliff
that dominates the figures in the dusk
below.
The great portraitists—Reynolds,
Gainsborough, Hoppner, Thomas Law-
rence, Alan Ramsay—are well repre-
sented. Their technique is interesting.
Two hundred years ago these painters
of fortune’s favorites were not above
making a head in oils look like a softly-
dusted crayon study if the face needed
more mercy than justice. The discovery
of beauty in ugliness came later in
British art—Augustus John’s portrait of
Admiral Fisher, G. A. Storey’s “My
Mother,” and Herkomer’s Charterhouse
Chapel group demonstrate the difference.
The Reynolds line of thought has
developed, too —as witness G. F. Kelly’s
really beautiful portrait “Ma Si Gyaw,
Dancer.”
As to landscape, though there is a
mellow charm about Constable, Mor-
land and Crome, their compositions look
tame beside such bracing scenes as
“Silver Morning,” by Arnesby Brown,
and “Upland and Sky,” by Adrian
Stokes.
The four Turners in this collection are
disappointing. That, despite all the
boosting he got from Ruskin, J.M.W. was
a rotten bad draughtsman can be
gathered from some of his most famous
and much-reproduced drawings, but
these give no glimpse of the depths to
which he could fall. “The Meuse,
Orange Merchantman Going to Pieces
on the Bar,” a large ambitious oil, con-
tains figures that are veritable mon-
strosities. Smaller pieces have a certain
spacious _ impressiveness, as in “Yacht
Racing in the Solent,” but there are
muddy patches in the color. Of course,
all these canvases have suffered through
the toll the years have taken On poor
P aint -
A very beautiful Orpen, “The
Angler,” deserves mention, and so does
a work by that quaint-minded versatile
soul, Samuel Butler—the young man
who planted in the Maoriland plains
such river names as Acheron when he
was sheepfarming there. His “Mr.
Heatherley’s Holiday (An Incident in
Studio Life),” a picture of an elderly
chap rejointing a skeleton, surrounded
by all the gear of an artist’s studio and
an anatomist’s den, is an interior as
good as any Orpen ever did.
Sculpture by Epstein, Dobson, Alfred
Gilbert and Maurice Lambert (son of
George) rounds off a vastly interesting
show, to which admission is free. °
•F 4* 4- *
Group Show at Grosvenor Galleries.
This Sydney show is a curious mixture.
First on the catalogue comes Sir E. J.
Poynter’s “Cave of the Storm Nymphs,”
a small canvas, but with enough good
painting in it to fill the side of a big
house. Follows George Lambert’s
"‘Half Moon Bay,” in the painter’s gay-
est impressionistic style. Then four
Gruners—best a study of haystacks ;
four Hans Heysens, covering the flower-
piece, gum-tree and bare-mountain
formulas; Nora Heysen and Margaret
Preston flower studies, a very strait-
laced Lindsay (“In Praise of
Pepys”), Blamire Young’s “Nature’s
Castle,” a landscape by W. B. Mclnnes,
three excellent sketches by Herbert
Badham, two romantic figure studies by
Adrian Feint, and some M.L. and S.
African glimpses by the Hon. Mrs. Ralph
Vane, who paints in opaque water-color
and gets a very pretty effect in a study
of a wine-house. Bronzes by noted
sculptors and woodcuts by Prof. N.
Bresslern-Roth and Margaret Preston
also enter into the medley,
* *F *F *
John Eldershaw’s Water-colors.
These are at the Macquarie Galleries,
Sydney. There was a time when this
Tasmanian painter represented the quaint
old bridges and buildings of the Apple
Isle in sober greys and browns, and his
work, though sincere and full of quiet
merit and good drawing, was apt to pass
unnoticed on a wall with pictures that
shouted louder. Then he developed a
color sense, and this sense has gone on
developing year by year till now there
is no water-colorist in Australia, save
perhaps Maud Sherwood in rare moods,
who can fill a rectangle with such a
delightful feast of warm, glowing har-
moni f s - Most of the drawings in Elder-
sl?aw ’ s current show seem to come from
his home island, but “Sirius Cove” shows
what he can do with the Harbor. “River
Cliff,” “The Headland,” “Houses by the
Railway,” “Golden Sands,” “Building on
a Hill, “Landscape Near Richmond,”
Outskirts of the Village,” “Church by
m A“ umn ’,’ and
.YJlu H a , re a examples of
2“ Yw.Yn t h-[ y T
2“ g&Ft ° £ hIS 30 exh,b " S don ‘ lag
*_ . .
*** *** *** *
Battarbee’s Centralian Pictures,
An unusual show at S.A. Society of
Arts Gallery is that of Rex Battarbee,
winner of one of the A. O. Barrett
prizes at the Vic. centenary. Back from
a stay in the heart of the continent, he
revels in the rich coloring of Centralian
cliffs. Seldom have a gallery’s walls dis-
played such a lavish show of various, but
all more or less vivid, reds. The back-
grounds are masterly, the rest not quite
so good, rocks-in-the-foreground being a
notorious trap for any painter but the
very best. Adelaide Art Gallery has
bought one of the most characteristic
works.


She’s a sparkling
success now ...
\
'j/H
At one time people thought her dull
because she seldom smiled, but she s
not aftaid to smile now since someone
told her that powder polished teeth
to perfection. All dentifrices contain
some powder that’s what does
the cleaning, but Calvert’s is ALL
POWDER - that’s why it makes your
teeth gleam and sparkle ALWAYS.
F. C. Calvert & Co., Ltd., England.
CALVERT’S
carbolic TOOTH POWDER
The Union Trustee Company of Australia, Ltd.
/ J n'm T7/i r>tn<V')n
(Incorporated in Victoria .)
2 O'CONNELL STREET
SYDNEY
ACTS AS
Executor, Trustee, Administrator, Attorney, Etc.
(Established 1885.) _ _
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE AND TOWNSVILLE.
Amongst the advantages derived:— „ wo «i«i»i»
The Company never dies, never leaves the State, and is alway '
ABSOLUTE SECURITY, EXPERT & ECONOMICAL SERVICE.
F. E. Bryant (Chairman);
Sir Graham Waddell, K.8.E.; James Kidd; W H. Mackay, J. _ Beresford u
Colin A. Sinclair. Manager: J. G. H ’
(WRITE OR CALL FOR FREE EXPLANATORY BOOKLET.)
A BRILLIANT NEW COURSE,
including service, for £l/l 1/6-
Write for details to
metropolitan school of
JOURNALISM,
6 Dailey Street, Sydney.
Corns Sentenced to Death.
Corns have worried you-now worry them-
although “worry” is hardly the wor ,
A’CORN SILK does not trifle with eorns, but
ruthlessly kills them. How comfortable y
£?« after A’CORN *!*'-»«*
all your soft or hard corns-a 6d. packe
do Jhis for you without pain or ™
Corns are killed while you sleepy matte
a few hours. Chemists sell AC° R N SIL
6d. per packet. Packed by Felton, Grunwade
and Duerdins, Ltd., Melbourne.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Parliament had almost a brand-new
Governor to open it last week. If that
wasn’t excitement enough, the salute ot
]Q guns to which the event is entitled was
preceded by 21 impressive booms in
honor of the birthday of Queen Eliza-
beth. “What’s the joke?” asked a
startled loiterer on the outer rim of the
crowd. “Opening of Parliament,” replied
his craning neighbor. Well, joke or not,
the little bit of pomp is always worth a
trip to Macquarie-street. This time the
scene was washed with clear, cold sun-
light. The horses of the mounted police
sniffed the freshness of the day, and blithe
hooves stepped beneath their statuesque
riders. Before the House the blue uni-
forms and white helmets of a company
of soldiers stood out. On the sunny
balconies early arrivals greeted one an-
other. A stir was caused by the arrival
of a small company of which Lady
Wakehurst was the important. Blake
Pelly, the escort, showed f.a.q. legs be-
neath black velvet breeches. His black
velvet coat had shining silver buttons.
Lady Wakehurst’s felt hat was wide of
brim, and beneath her long coat of
summer ermine flashed a flowered silk
dress. Legislative Council President
John Peden with his full bottomed wig
and black gown caught the eye of the
crowd; so did the Moderator of the
Kirk with his buckled shoon, knee-
breeches and unusual hat. And at last
in shining glory came the Governor, all
gold braid and epaulettes and beplumed
hat.
If you had to stand, you’ll certainly
remember the Governor’s oration the
longest on record. Political wives, how-
ever, did not seem to notice. Probably
they are the audience for many a speech
in rehearsal. Women were very smart.
Everybody had a camera-conscious air.
A green frock cheerily glinting with nail-
heads was worn by the wife of Premier
Stevens. Seasonal were Mrs. Hugh
Main’s daffodils and Mrs. Fitzsimons’s
lily-of-the-valley. Sheila Chaffey was an
attractive girl; Mrs. Gregory Katers suit
with its monkey-fur trimming was one
of the smartest. The Waddells from
Bethungra came ; so did the wife of the
new Speaker, R. W. D. Weaver. Knight
John Peden, in time-honored way, spread
a very good morning-tea.
The handsome rooms of Sancta Sophia,
within the Uni., were gay and flutter-
some on the night of the college dance
with as many colors as a cottage
garden posy. In addition to the college
colors, carried out in red flowers and
gold lacquered leaves, chiffons and satins
and laces heaped color upon color. Mrs.
Walter Burfitt, the night’s hostess, wore
lame that gleamed green and gold. The
Mark Sheldon and Thomas Bavin knights
were there with their ladies, and Justice
Halse Rogers, Chancellor of the Uni., was
one of the important guests of the even-
ing. So was Miss Kate Egan ; also Dame
Constance D’Arcy. Barbara and Esmey
Burfitt and Beatrice McGirr were keen
dancers; so were Patricia Kirton and
Peggy Allen, the night’s secretaries.
If your tummy was up to it, you fin-
ished off the Artists’ Ball with a break-
fast of bacon and eggs. That was in the
very small hours of the morning. Call
it a night, call it a day, anything you like,
but you must add it was fun. Oyer
1000 pirates, gipsy and Egyptian
queens, Paris art students, angels,
senoritas, Cossacks, Eskimos and beach
girls are ready to swear it. And does
black-and-white art pay? You should
have seen the three magnificent magnums
of champagne that reared their gold tops
on the official table. Beer and onions!
Let mineowners eat and drink thus
coarsely. Bubbly and caviare for the artist
of to-day! Best of all was artist Lahm,
who came as an angel, pearly winged
and haloed. What though the halo did
slip a bit, his robe was embellished with
copies of Old Masters.
Two Spanish dancers from Maoriland
have already written to the folks at home
all about their first Artists’ Ball in Syd-
ney. The Palais Royal radiated with the
fun, from the cartoons and caricatures on
the walls to the places of rendezvous:
“The ’Loo,” “the Dorn.” and “topper
William-street.” Brodie Mack, in charge
of the stunts, put on a quick-fire pro-
gramme of talented dancers and actors,
the cream bun going to the pretty manne-
quins in their new season’s swim suits.
Stan Cross and Mrs. Stan, with the wife
of Frank Dalby Davison, entertained at
the official table. Black-and-red shot
taffeta made a striking foil for secretary
Jim Russell’s wife. Brother Dan, who
was treasurer, brought his wife, too. Her
frock was brown and silver. Popular
Louie Still, who has just inherited a
legacy, came in black velvet. National
Gallery director Will Ashton was there
with Mrs. Ashton. Neville Cayley,
Jimmy Bqncks, Percy Lindsay and Syd
Nicholls were all on the spot.
Herewith Charmain Ross, a versatile
amateur who played with equal success
as a dope addict and a film-struck girl
in Ken Brodziak’s “Desire Brings Wel-
come” and “Positions Vacant.” In Wil-
liamson’s production of “The Streets of
London” she switched into the # atmo-
sphere of melodrama of the nineties.
Charmain, originally a Melbourne girl,
was. for some years in England, where
she was one of a touring repertory com-
pany.
Mary Kelly was the newcomer to last
Thursday’s orchestral concert. After
gazing at one another’s oft-told tale of
face and wrap, concertgoers’ eyes turned
to this arrival from far countries. There
was a nice serenity about the well-poised
dark head and the loveliest jade orna-
ments in her ears. Her cloak was of
dark rose-red velvet, and she sat with
Mrs. Bertie Kelly, whose black moire
coat was thickly starred with gold.
Musicians, like Howard Carr, in the
audience listened with attention to the
playing of the orchestra in such numbers
as the Mahler Symphony, but most of
the concertgoers thrilled to the toes with
the Bolero number.
Schneevoigt, the real initiates declare,
is the greatest conductor to have visited
Sydney He doesn’t bother to be a show-
man He has made his orchestra work
like slaves He has thrown their faults
in their teeth in the most unvarnished
way He has led them along no rose-
strewn way of self-congratulation. But
he has made them play as though they
were inspired, and on the night of the
concert he smiles on them like some
benign god “You are doing very well,
my little children,” he seems to say. After
Saturday’s Strauss programme Sydney is
still floating gaily to waltz time.
~. . ~
There s one subject on which Dr.
Grace Cuthbert, the State’s new Director
of Maternal Welfare, needs no enlighten-
ment, and that is the bringing of country
babies into the world. After the doctor
had been for some time a resident
medical in Royal North Shore, she took
a wide-flung practice in Pambula, which
she served by day and night for some
years. Coming back to Sydney she took
over, by a curious coincidence, the prac-
tice at Wollstonecraft of Dr. Sandford
Morgan, who had just then been made
Director of Maternal Welfare. Dr. Grace
Cuthbert has a medico brother in Perth,
one of three with distinguished war
records. Photograph from Raymond
Sawyer.
St. Francis is evidently the patron saint
of the Rachel Forster Hospital. At any
rate, it was a pretty little namesake who
handed over £lO,OOO to this institution last
Friday, most of this money being the gift
of Frances Gillespie. Through her,
members of her family had contributed
something to the total. This is not the
first time Frances has befriended the hos-
pital. Some time ago, feeling that there
was need of a really up-to-date almoner,
this North Shore Line girl paid all ex-
penses for one of the staff to be sent
abroad. Not only that, she paid her
salary, too. Frances is a daughter of the
George Gillespies, and was for quite a
while one of this State’s star fencers.
She is always dressed with an attention
to every detail, has travelled widely and
plays most games well.
The Rachel Forster had quite a gala
afternoon last Thursday, when the cheque
was handed to Lady Wakehurst. The
money will buy one and a half acres of
land in Pitt-street, Redfern, where later
it is the intention of the R.F. committee
to build an in-patients’ hospital. This
R.F. hospital is entirely run by women,
staffed by women doctors and its list of
honoraries include the most brilliant of
the sex. The president is Mrs. W. H.
Read, of Wahroonga. The acting medi-
cal superintendent did the honors and
escorted last Thursday’s guests through
the wards, dispensary and operating
theatre. Hospital secretary Kate Ogilvie
had a bright thought, and spread the
party spirit by inviting a group of small
ones just leaving the Redfern school
near by to come over and share a large,
tin of biscuits and see the vice-regal
arrival.
There’s something spacious and cool
and calm about the loan collection of
British artists now on show in the
National Gallery. These, were men who
lived at ease with beauty. Their world
was not a fly gasping for breath in a
web of cables and airways. It was
pleasant to linger by the “Roadside Inn”
with Morland, to saunter along rustic
ways with Constable and Sam Bough.
When Lord Wakehurst opened the ex-
hibition last week the. audience was in
good mood. So much variety on the
walls outweighed the sameness of the
speeches. Gallery chairman Philip
Street pinned a daffodil in the lapel of
Maorilander Percy Sargood (he’s one of
Enzed’s merchant princes), who had
started the scheme whereby the best of
England’s art treasures are being sent as
visitors to the Dominions.
The trustees were all there to welcome
with their most elegant gesture the ladies
of Gainsborough, Etty and Furse. There
were plenty of ladies in the flesh, too, for
them to greet. The Gallery was
crowded, and as usual woman was about
three to one. A cold snap brought out
topcoats and furs, and millinery seemed
to be like Lot’s wife, and looked back,
instead of forward. The. conscience of
some women had awakened and they
acknowledged spring by hastily pinned
knots of lupin and daffodil and pansy.
One of these was Theo Cowan. Her
violets and pansies exactly matched the
violet blue, wing on her antelope hat. A
serene smile and two white wings on her
smart little velour distinguished Mary
Kelly, just arrived from England. A
fur-bordered coat of black velvet and
red berries against her black toque, were
worn by Mrs. Bertie Kelly, her hostess
and aunt by marriage. Mrs. Charlie
Lloyd Jones was wrapped in mink. John
Lane Mullins walked with three smart
daughters. The educational Arthur
Lismers from Canada were there. Mrs.
Mick Dalton from Orange, Mrs. Mary
Irvine, Dr. Mary Booth and Joan Marks,
Howard Hinton and Mrs. Will Ashton
were others.
Artist Joe Wolinski has just received
an invitation to spend a holiday in
Sussex. The letter inviting him is from
Harold Rubin, who recently bought the
artist’s painting “Elizabeth Farm.” As
the owner of large station properties in
Central Queensland, including Northamp-
ton Downs, he was strongly attracted
by the picture of the beginning ol
our woolgrowing. It now hangs in
company with three Brangwyns in the
Rubin home, at Horam, Sussex, which
was previously the country home ot
J M Barrie. It will be remembered that
with’ the Rubin family pearls came
before sheep. They were at one time
among Australia’s greatest operators in
the pearl industry.
Out of the carnage and the horror
that is now Spain, a Sydney lecturer
managed to bring one amusing story.
With a companion he had been travel-
ling throughout one day along a route
scarred with battle,. They had neither
chance nor inclination for refreshment,
but in the late evening they drew up in
a small town and, leaving their car,
sought a cafe. The two had no Spanish,
and the host had no English. But the
Australian, a North Coast man, true to
instinct, felt a longing for a glass ot
milk. He had an inspiration, and drew
the picture, of a cow. The proprietor
beamed, and, bustling off, came back
with two tickets for a bullfight.
Miss Nancy Jobson and her students
decked Hopewood House with sprays ot
pink almond blossom gathered in their
own garden for The farewell to Clement
Hosking. Clement goes off in the Orford
next Saturday to browse among the
Hebrides, and the lovely rooms of the
old Hordern home were crowded with
his friends, old and new. Two new-
comers to Sydney were Dr Anna Sjogren,
of Stockholm, and Miss C. A. S Mac-
Millan, of England. They are delegate,
to the New Education Conference. Ihe
hostess wore a frock in the new paper
satin, patterned in blue black white ana
green. Three of her girls helped in enter
taming: Hope Weston in cornelian, Jane
Mills in black velvet and Heather Hamp-
ton in blue taffeta.


STAY AT
SYDNEY'S
Finest HOTEL
%
When you visit Sydney— stay at the
Wentworth. At the Wentworth you
will get everything you desire; a
homely atmosphere, perfect service
and convenience to business and
social centres.
WENTWORTH
HOTEL
'PHONE 8W1361 (10 lines)
CD. MACLURCAN MNG DIRECTOR
J. S. LEVY, Manager*
The Air-Conditioned State
There you will find relaxation amid scenery reminiscent of
the English counties—lush valleys, panoramic peaks, his-
toric buildings. Sport, too—including trout fishing. Hours
of sunshine, entrancing twilights, bracing climate. Truly a
Tasmanian holiday will be remembered with pleasure
long after you return to your workaday world.
Illustrated literature, details of liner sailings,
fares and accommodation, on request.
TASMANIAN GOVERNMENT TOURIST BUREAU
SYDNEY MELBOURNE BRISBANE ADELAIDE
Martin Place, "The Block" 196 Adelaide 12 Pirie
opp. G.P.O. Collins St. Street Street
PERTH
A.M.P. Bldg.,
William St.
\ v
7
\
n
WAKE UP ! !
BARTZ
Nature’s Salts of the Earth
Drugs are only a temporary
relief, but BARTZ, the
IMPROVED MINERAL
SPRING TONIC SALTS, is
Nature’s own remedy for
excessive fat, headaches,
rheumatic pains, sleepless-
ness, giddiness; high blood
pressure, constipation, liver,
kidney, bladder troubles, uric acid, indigestion, skin
complaints, etc. Obtainable all Chemists and Stores,
CHEAPER and BETTER 1/- & 2/- JARS
Missing Friend.
PURSUANT to an order of the Supreme
Court of Victoria made in the action 1937 No.
415 in which THE CURATOR OF THE
ESTATES OF DECEASED PERSONS is Plain-
tiff and ALICE CASSON is Defendant the
persons claiming to be the next-of-kin of WIL-
LIAM JOHN POWER (only child of John
Power otherwise known as Patrick Power and
Margaret Power {nee Walsh) born at Echuca
Victoria in 1869 who died at Echuca in 1934
are by their Solicitors on or before the Third
day of December 1937 to come in and prove
their claims at the office of the Chief Clerk
Law Courts Melbourne Victoria and in default
thereof they will be peremptorily excluded from
the benefit of the said order and the said estate
will be distributed having regard only to the
claims which shall have been so proved. The
17th day of December 1937 at 11 o’clock in
the forenoon is appointed for adjudicating on
the said claims.
DATED this sth day of August, 1937.
M. M. PHILLIPS.
Chief Clerk.
HENDERSON & BALL, of 430 Little Collins
Street, Melbourne, Solicitors for the Plaintiff.
Melbourne
Chatter
Cloudless skies and brilliant sunshine
failed to lure women into their new
spring clothes in compliment to the open-
ing of the Australian Steeplechase meet-
ing at Caulfield on Saturday. Any bits
of brightness were supplied by headgear
and accessories. The scarlet bird with
outspread wings on Mrs. Ken Niall’s
black velvet hat was something to re-
member. Sports hats in vivid shades
helped to make the dressing cheery.
Although silver foxes were not discarded,
the oak-trees were sprouting their new
spring green about the trunks. Mrs.
Norman Robinson had a large yellow
daisy topping her jaunty black straw hat.
Mrs. Trevor Clarke’s filmy black-and-
white scarf did not get much chance to
flutter, being well kept in its place by its
owner’s silver foxes. The Currie lady
and Mrs. George Blackwood, who were
guests at the official luncheon, prome-
naded together in the birdcage. Almost
fantastical was the coat cravat of Mrs.
Ken McLean, fashioned with black-and-
white-flecked plumage outspread like the
wings of a bird in flight. The cravat
matched her feather toque. There was
such a lavish display of silver fox that
Mary Baillieu succeeded in looking dis-
tinctive in a terra-cotta colored coat with
not an inch of fur about it. The short
skirt of Iris Connolly’s black frock
sported a crenellated edge, and smart
touches of white relieved its sombreness.
For trim smartness nothing eclipsed the
chic figure of Mrs. Schwartz, wearing
with an abbreviated black suit a short
cape jacket with Persian lamb facings,
set off with a Breton sailor hat set far
back on her well-groomed head. Mrs.
Roger-Thompson was a color symphony
in amethyst. A beauteous blonde in a
navy outfit got many a second look, for
she had the front of her frock em-
broidered in crochets and quavers as set
out in music books.
Racing was exciting enough—plenty of
croppers and all that— at the Yarra Glen
and Lilydale Hunt Club meeting at the
Valley on Wednesday, but that is more
than can be said of the styles. It was a
day of tweeds, scarves and sports hats,
with the hunting crowd well to the fore.
Molly McAuley struck an appropriate
note with her green silk scarf, figured
with brown foxheads. With her fair
hair rolled into a halo beneath a black
skull cap, the Viennese beauty Nora
Lang sported a mink coat that outrivalled
all other pelts on view. Tailored tweeds
and flannels were put in the shade by
Mrs. James Kelso’s shepherd plaid suit
and her black jaunty beret of corded
ribbon. Mrs. Tristan Buesst was cosily
coated in torpedo-grey with mulberry
lines forming a bold check design. Bar-
bara Syme, whose engagement has just
been announced to Geoffrey Norris, kept
out the chilly wind with a possum skin
attached to a grey belted coat. A very
smart hat with a swathing of emerald
green about its high crown brightened up
the black outfit of Mrs. P. Grant Hay.
The “brighter-clothes-for-men” move-
ment was upheld by Capt. Wilberham,
who wandered round in a brown-checked
suit with a gay tie.
Some of these charity workers would
make first-class business women. This
year £B5O has been raised for St. Vin-
cent’s Hospital by sales at the Little
Green Shop, which still retains its name
although it has shed its original appear-
ance. These days the shop has a more
convenient site at the rear of the hospi-
tal’s entrance hall, and is no longer
green-painted. Dr. W. Newing presided
at the annual meeting, and Leo Doyle
and Tom King, who have soared to such
heights in the medical profession that to-
day one calls them “Mister,” came along
and said “thank you very much” on
behalf of the hospital. Mrs. W. R.
Burston, honorary organiser and buyer
for the last three years, was bombarded
with complimentary bouquets. The two
cots reserved for sick nurses at St.
Vincent’s were endowed indirectly
through the energy and enthusiasm of
Mrs. Burston (who gained her nursing
certificate at this hospital) and an
erstwhile fellow-student, Matron Ida
O’Dwyer. The best selling lines at the
Little Green Shop are soft drinks and
syphons.
Gwen Munro, the Tasmanian lass who
scored a beauty prize that took her to
Hollywood about three years ago, will
be on her way to the North before the
month is out. She is not setting out on a
holiday cruise. Many weeks of strenuous
work are ahead. Under the guidance of
Noel Monkman, who has put so much
of Australia’s natural beauty on the
screen, Gwen will do a spot of swim-
ming, diving and acting at the Barrier
Reef for the film “Typhoon Treasure.”
She will not be here to wave sister
Mignon farewell when she leaves for
Cairo on September 16 to marry Dick
Allen. Gwen’s latest picture was taken
at the studio of Dickinson-Monteath.
Thirty years before auxiliaries were
launched to help maintain public hospi -
tals in Victoria, a group of women were
supplying patients at the Homoeopathic
(now the Prince Henry) Hospital with
extra comforts through the medium of
the Ladies’ Aid Society. This organisa-
tion, now nearing its 50th birthday, is
still going strong. On Thursday after-
noon about 100 friends were invited to
the unveiling in the children’s ward of
a cot which is being endowed to mark
the service of Mrs. H. S. K. Ward, elected
president for the ninth year in succession
last month. The facts were all set down
on a burnished brass tablet attached to
the cot. Ten years ago £6OO was needed
to endow a cot, but despite the high cost
of living this endowment now costs £lOO
less. Brighter than the holly decorating
the ward were the scarlet bed-jackets on
the wee patients, a surprise gift from
Mrs. “Ladies Aid” Collingwood. The
holly was picked from Warwick, the
country home of the guest of honor
at Macedon, where the snow fell thickest
last week.
Although so many serious subjects are
listed for discussion at the New Educa-
tion Fellowship Conference, opening in
Melbourne on August 24, there will be
no lack of social entertainment. Even
the Government will take a hand in the
welcoming. Gilt-edged invitations are
out for a Parliamentary reception at
the National Gallery on the evening of
August 26. There will be afternoon-tea
parties at homes of professors, luncheons
with highbrows, gatherings at the Uni-
versity, excursions to Geelong - , and a
civic reception to usher in the confer-
ence. Private hospitality will be extended
to the overseas visitors. Mrs. T.
a’Beckett has undertaken to find free food
and shelter for nearly 60 people. A
group of well-known women educa-
tionists are helping bier in the seeking,
while Professor Agar’s wife is the leader
elected for looking after the social side.
Melbourne has already made the
acquaintance of the chief organiser of
the conference, Mrs. Beatrice Ensor, of
South Africa, who passed through here
late in July on her way to Brisbane, and
lingered long enough to make us under-
stand that this conference was not to
be reserved for educationists only.
Nancy Ford, who has strutted the ama-
teur stage as Mary Queen of Scots and
also as Florence Nightingale, is staging
a show at the Garrick with 16 Old Fin-
tonians in the cast. The selection of
the. play denotes forethought. “Nine
Till Six,” the stage story of a business
life behind the scenes, lends itself to a
girls’ school dramatic class, on account
of the number that can be absorbed in
the allotting of the parts, and because no
player has to be called upon to imper-
sonate a man. Nellie Veitch, the veteran
teacher who in the past did so much to
preserve purity of speech, gave Nancy
Ford her first lessons in vowel sounds,
and now Nancy is diction mistress at
three leading public schools. In looks
and personality Nancy Ford bears a
strong resemblance to the leading ladies
of the days when drama was at its prime.
Here is a picture of her by Dickinson-
Monteath. Some of the profits from
Saturday night’s shew will be handed to
the Kindergarten Holiday Home at
Forest Hill. The “Nine to Six” perform-
ance marks the closing of the Garrick as
a cultural centre. The voice of the
prompter will give way to the throbbing
of paper-making machinery.
In many cases those engaged in social
service have passed on before the com-
pliments and bouquets are given out, but
the good work of Dr. Janet Lindsay
Greig has been commemorated in her
lifetime.. The other day she saw a patho-
logical wing (named after her) opened at
the Queen Victoria Hospital, where she
and a group of other pioneer medical
women started an out-patients’ depart-
ment 40 years ago. Some of those
present at the tea party that followed
remembered the days when the, medical
staff of this institution had to manage
with a makeshift lab. housed in a homely
shelter in the yard. The Janet Lindsay
Greig Pathological Block is the last word
in scientific equipment. Some of the
£6OOO spent on the making was eaten up
by chromium, steel and marble. In the
old days the pioneers did not despise a
sterilised kerosene-tin as part of the
equipment. The woman doctor who has
been honored by having this wing named
after her was present at the first meeting
which resulted in the founding of the
Queen Victoria Hospital in 1896.
The Fairbairn clan has been join-
ing in the welcoming of Moira Bal-
main, only daughter of the late Major
and Mrs. Stewart Balmain. Moira, now
in her early twenties, left Australia at
the kindergarten age, and this is her first
return visit. Grandfather Fairbairn
(knight George) contrived to put her in
touch with some of her mother’s old
friends at the afternoon party he gave in
her honor at No. 9 on Thursday. Moira
resembles her mother, the fair-haired
Alison Fairbairn, in manner. Her
brothers lan and Malcolm have joined
their father’s old regiment, the 15th
Hussars, and the third one, called George
after his grandfather, is also soldiering.
Country life is the thing that appeals to
this young visitor, and relatives and
friends are taking care that she will enjoy
every phase of rural life here. On Fri-
day Bill Seymour found her a gee-gee so
she could follow the Findon Pack. Very
soon Grandpa intends taking her to his
station in the Riverina to see a bit of
shearing. As far as Westralia on the
journey out Moira Balmain had the com-
pany of Field-Marshal Birdwood and his
lady. Major Stewart Balmain will be
remembered by those of the older genera-
tion as private secretary to the wife of a
Governor-General, the late Lady North-
cote.
At the affair the Italian community
ran in the Town Hall last week there were
dark-haired daughters of Italy, flashing
diamente, flowers and feathers, holding
up the social side, while fellow-country-
women of simpler tastes in everyday
clothes went in for a little buying and
selling at a jumble market. Animation,
color and character changed the atmo-
sphere of the Melbourne Town Hall from
frigidity to friendliness. Not for ages
has there been so much laughter and loud
chattering within its austere portals. What
an eye for color these Southerners have!
At this shivoo the Italians had decked
a side of lamb with flowers made from
mutton fat and tinted in a variety of
bright shades. Brown bread, shining as
if it had been lacquered, gleaming bottles
of oil and wine, and the golden glow of
oranges formed still-life pictures. The
idea of selling things was to add a little
more to the £4OOO which the Italian com-
munity has raised already for the Lord
Mayor’s Fund, and as nearly 1000 people
were present the financial result should
be handsome.
Delving into past centuries for her
wares, Minna Schuler now presides at a
quaint shop scented with the fragrance
of potpourri, tucked away in one of
Collins-street’s odd corners. She has
specialised in simples, the old English
word associated with essences from
homely plants. Minna, with her dark
hair braided coronet fashion, hands out
marjoram, rosemary and mint, slippery
elm and marshmallow in either pill,
dried-herb or lotion form. Prof. Ernest
Scott has provided the foreword for her
publicity pamphlet.
(Continued on next page.)
6


VISIT
THE EXHIBITION
OF AUSTRALIAN
ART
THE MACLEOD
GALLERY,
252 George Street
(,near Bridge Street),
SYDNEY,
Where the latest pictures
by the best Australian
Artists may be purchased.
ADMISSION FREE
Tel.:. 87971.
dV
<«r»
'jUJ
w ifi.
<Jw.
M
vra/M
Vl
The Basis of
Perfect Cocktails
(PRE-WAR STRENGTH)
Agents:
John Woods & Co.
Ltd.,
388 Sussex Street,
Sydney.
Distilled by:
Hi>am Walker & Sons
Ltd.,
Walkerville, Ontario,
Canada.
Since 1858.
The Cocktail Recipe that won the
prize in a competition open to the
World had as its main ingredient
Canadian Club Whisky.
This Whisky, bottled in bond at pre-'
war strength, costs no more than
standard Scotch brands, yet it has
won and retains International repute.
Write for a free Cocktail Recife
Book to the Agents.
Constipation
and Colitis
now Conquered by
Modern Medical
Science
Dr. F. de Courmelles, of the Paris
Society of Practising Physicians, says
"Good Health results from internal
cleanliness/'
CONSTIPATION takes many forms—it gives rise
to countless ailments. Most serious of these is
colitis. The colon becomes hard, strangulated and
encrusted with putrefying deposits. Modem foods,
which never include sufficient roughage to properly
exercise the intestines, make these troubles unavoid-
able unless precautions are taken. Regular bowel
movements are no protection—the colon walls have
grown too weak to rid their folds of the daily increas-
ing addition of poisonous waste matter . . . opening
medicines only purge the lower end of the colon and
extract essential vitality from the walls. Note how
liquid your faeces become after a severe dose of
ordinary laxative. Science, however, has at last dis-
covered a sure and effective remedy in Coloseptic
(Wayne's Improved Formula).
Free-
liberal TEST
SAMPLE OF
COLOSEPTIC
Mail coupon lor gen-
erous FREE sample oi
COLOSEPTIC and an
enthralling, interesting
book telling you all
about Autoxima the
real cause of 97% of
all sickness. The
sample and book are
FREE, but send 3d.
stamp to cover cost of
postage, MAIL
COUPON NOW.
WHOLE FAMILY BENEFITS
Wellington, TS.Z.
“I have used COLOSEPTIC for
some time and without any ex-
aggeration whatsoever it is the
finest medicine obtainable for
bowel troubles. There are five in
our family and we all use it regu-
larly. We have given up the use
of pills, paraffin oil, salts and
salines. It has given us all health
and vigour — A.F.J.
(Original of this letter may be seen at
head office.)
At all Chemists, 2'9 .. Economy Size, 5 X 6
If unobtainable locally , write to COLOSEPTIC (Aust*) Ltd*, 26 O'Connell
Street , Sydney.
fd
Coloseptic's Vitalising Action
The clogged colon, which results irom the non-
digestion ol modern foods, forms virulent poisons
that seep into the blood stream and attack every
vital organ in the body. This introduces a state of
autoxima, or self-poisoning. That is why Dr. de
Courmelles declares that a clean colon is essential
for perfect health. Natives, eating natural foods, are
sale, but civilised people need the
protection that only Coloseptic can
give. It tones up the walls of the
colon, giving them back the power to
easily and naturally remove encrusta-
tions, it corrects acid conditions and
stimulates the action of the pores of
Clogged Colon the skin, the respiratory system, and
the kidneys—the three other important organs
which eliminate poisons from your system. Re-
move constipation the basic cause of 95% of
disease—take COLOSEPTIC.
Look at these two illustrations. One shows the
colon clogged and ineffective. It can no longer
absorb the essential body-building minerals from
the passing matter. It is powerless to eject putre-
fying waste. Nausea, dizziness, bloating, headaches
and stomach gas are some of the warning symptoms
that this partial constipation gives. Nine
people out of ten suffer. Colitis and
similar serious complaints must follow.
Now look at the other illustration. All
danger is ended—the colon has been
cleared by Coloseptic. And autoxima,
the dread self-poisoning which results
from a clogged colon, and which under-
mines your vigor and vitality, has been
banished. Take COLOSEPTIC, put an
end to constipation, avoid the danger of
serious troubles like colitis, diseases
of malnutrition, weakness, exhaustion,
emaciation. You'll know vibrant health
again . . . you'll feel fit . . .
you'll be well.
fd
fd
Unclogged
Colon.
1C
AIDS NUTRITION
HEALTH
SELF-POISONING
CHECKS
ACIDITY
BUILDS
COMBATS
Mrs. Tom a’Beckett, who has been
putting in some good work lately to cap-
ture that home-away-from-home atmo-
sphere for Education Conference dele-
gates, took the week-end otf to be pres-
ent at the wedding of her eldest son
Tom to Hilary Lawrence at Wagga on
Saturday. It was an evening affair, and
the frocks of the bride’s attendants were
chosen with an eye to the hour. Their
rose-red velvet robes, cut on mediaeval
lines, showed off to glorified advantage
under the gleaming lights. Mrs. Baden
Cooke, of Temora, the matron of honor,
and Judith Macßae, of Elphinstone, up-
held the dignity of the robes. Bank
manager Vernon Lawrence and his
spouse entertained a large number of
guests in blossomed-decked rooms in
the residential quarter of the Union
Bank in honor of their daughter’s mar-
riage. The rose point lace veil draping
the pearl satin bridal robe had been worn
by Hilary’s great-grandmother on her
marriage day 80 years ago. Ted
a’Beckett, who distinguished himself
with the Australian Test team, saw his
brother through the ceremony.
Last week Mary Lindsay Smith put
through a long-distance call to her
mother, Mrs. Lindsay Smith, of Koo-
yong, to introduce her future husband,
Captain H. W. Houghton, of the 7th
Ghurka Rifles, whom she. did not know
existed when she left home for London
less than four months ago. The tele-
phone chat lasted 20 minutes, but every-
body was so excited that mother can
scarcely remember the conversation.
However, she gleaned that the whirlwind
courtship is to culminate in a wedding
at Surrey this week. Mary’s best girl
friend, Margaret Knight, happens to be
in England, so it is on the cards she will
be close at hand on the great day. Uncle
John Smith, whose guest Mary was on the
overseas trip, will be chief master of cere-
monies. Although Mary has the right to
don the cap and gown of Melbourne
University, she is an outdoor girl, and
plays hockey well enough to figure in
inter-State matches.
Mrs. John Cumming, who as Beth
Paxton was one of the young lovelies
who donned a coming-out frock during
the visit of the Duke of Gloucester, is
on the sick list. Under doctor’s orders
she is leaving in the Nieuw Holland
toward the end of the month on a health
trip. She hopes a saunter through Siam
will pull her together again. During her
absence the juniors who give the Toorak
Auxiliary of the Children’s Hospital a
helping hand will miss the enthusiasm of
her leadership. Beth’s parents, the
Norman Paxtons, will be happier to see
the boat sail in than sail out.
Helen Simpson crammed a great deal
into her fortnight’s stay here, lecturing
over the radio and being lionised. She
was guest of honor at so many places
that she nearly went dizzy. Probably she
enjoyed best of all the informal tea party
where she had a chin-chin with the
women journalists. This was the day
when she announced that her latest book,
Under Capricorn, had been chosen by the
London Book Society as the novel of the
month. This book deals with N. S.
Wales when Bourke was Governor and
Miss Simpson’s great-grandfather was
one of the new settlers. Miss Simpson
(in private life Mrs. Dennis Browne) lives
in London in a quaint house of the Queen
Anne period in one of those small by-
ways that run off Harley-street. It all
sounds very attractive, but Helen Simp-
son would prefer sunshine in her kitchen
to having to burn the electric light all
day, even in summer.
Nancy Gollin, a Melbourne girl who
has lived in Paris for many years, is re-
turning to the home tov/n in November
to marry Jack Paton, well known in the
newspaper world. Although the engage-
ment has just been announced, the
romance has been simmering for a long
time. This is a sequel to a shipboard
meeting some years ago. Painting is one
of Nancy’s hobbies, and this is one of
the interests that has kept her chained
to Paris. By family links Nancy Gollin
is united to some of the leading Jewish
folk here, including the aged philan-
thropist Mrs. Montague Cohen.
With a whoop intended to make poli-
ticians quake in their golf shoes, a new
feminist movement has got itself
launched. Mrs. C. Weber, with the
light of battle in her eye, has pledged
herself to lead the League of Women
Electors to where its members are bent
on going. Seemingly eyes blue, grey,
black and brown are focused on Parlia-
ment House. It is high time we had a say
in affairs —that is the attitude of these
warriors. Judging by the clang of the
challenging it will be futile for the men
to cock a deaf ear. As the W.C.T.U.
kicked up some of the dust in the early
days of the votes-for-women fight, it
seems only natural that the white-rib-
boners should be sponsoring this new
league, which is reminding women that
they have allowed the grass to grow thick
under their feet since the vote came
their way at the beginning of the century.
An old-world cottage in Devon and
the right man have lured Marjorie Ram-
say into matrimony—as Mrs. F. W. Web-
ber. Some weeks ago the lady’s parents
received a picture of Cuscombe Cottage
at Taunton, down in Devon, with the
date 1472 showing over the door —their
daughter’s future home. Although the
engagement was not made public, mother
and father knew about the, romantic
attachment when Marjorie was here on
a visit last year. After a successful
scholastic career Marjorie Ramsay
drifted into journalism, and became
social editress of a Sydney daily. She
left for London four years ago.


Patents.
METHOD OF MAKING PARTITIONED
GLASS CONTAINERS.
THE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent No.
188 73/ 34 is prepared to negotiate for the sale
of its rights in the above, or for the granting
of a license to make, use and vend the inven-
tion within the Commonwealth of Australia
Particulars obtainable from Griffith, Hassel
and Griffith, Patent Attorneys, Sydney.
A PLUNGER FOR SHAPING GLASS
PARISONS.
THE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent No.
18874/34 is prepared to negotiate for the sale
of its rights in the above, or for the granting
of a license to make, use and vend the inven-
tion within the Commonwealth of Australia.
Particulars obtainable from Griffith, Hassel
and Griffith, Patent Attorneys, Sydney.
Invest Soundly In
These 20
“Listed” Companies
SECUJR/rv
vqs
Commercial Bank of Aust., Btd.
The Adelaide S.S. Co., Btd.
Tooth & Co., Btd.
Associated Newspapers, Btd.
A’sian Paper and Pulp Co., Btd.
Australian Glass Mftrs. Co., Btd.
Broken Hill Proprietary Co., Ltd.
Colonial Sugar Refining Co., Btd.
David Jones, Btd.
Drug Houses of Australia, Btd.
It will pay every investor to
study the many marked
advantages of investing in the
way made possible by FIRST
AUSTRALIAN UNIT
TRUST CERTIFICATES.
These enable you to apply the
SAFETY-FIRST principle of
wide diversification to your
investment—be it as little as
approx. £2s—by spreading
Dunlop Perdriau Rubber Co., Ftd.
Klectro. Zinc Co. of A/sia, X,td.
General Industries, !Ltd.
Goldsbrough, Mort & Co., X,td.
Henry Jones Co-operative, l«td.
Kandos Cement Co., ltd.
Sargents, Ltd.
W. R. Carpenter & Co., Ftd.
Yarra Falls, Ftd.
Broken Hill South, X,td.
it over 20 of Australia’s
strongest and soundest Com-
panies, all listed on ’Change.
The investment, moreover, is
always safeguarded by
UNION INSURANCE
SOCIETY OF CANTON,
LTD. (Union Building, Bond
Street, Sydney), as Custodian
Trustees, and it is realisable at
any time.
Remember— ONE Certificate, ONE Transaction
covers 20 Companies .
DIRECTORS:
Victor G. Watson, Esq. (Chairman), formerly Manager, The Trustees, Executors
and Agency Co., Ltd., Melbourne; Norman L. Cowper, Esq., Solicitor; Messrs
Allen, Allen and Hemsley, Sydney; John A. L. Gunn, Esq., F.C.A. (Aust )
Chartered Accountant (Aijst.); Palmer Kent, Esq., Retired Chief inspector!
The Bank of Australasia.
For full details and descriptive Booklet No. 1 apply to the
Managers of the Trust:
AUSTRALIAN FIXED TRUSTS PTY., LTD.,
8-14 BOND STREET, SYDNEY.
TELEPHONE: 85294.
BOX 4028, V.V., G.P.O.
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
“M.’ ? : The Kyeema, which is to go on
the Brisbane-Adelaide air-mail run and
is being used between Brisbane and
Sydney, will bring the eastern capitals
still nearer to each other. The Kyeema
and her sister ’plane, the Pengana, are
Douglas DC2’s with a speed in the vicinity
of 200 m.p.h. and a climbing capacity
and stability in the air beyond those of
any craft so far placed on the Australian
runs. Their schedule will enable passen-
gers leaving Brisbane at 7 a.m. to arrive
in Sydney before 10 a.m., leave again
for Melbourne at 10.15 a.m., leave Mel-
bourne at 2.5 p.m., and be in Adelaide
at 4.15 p.m.— 9} hours for the journey
of '1441 miles, or an average of nearly
156 m.p.h. including several stops en
route.
* * * *
“Zedo”: Townsville West State school,
one of the oldest in North Queensland,
will celebrate its golden jubilee on Sept.
24. It is not the pioneer—Townsville
Central was opened in 1869, three years
after the city was founded, and Belgian
Gardens followed. Some of the Towns-
ville West school’s history is obscure,
because of the wiping-out of records in
the cyclones of 1896 and 1903, but early
rolls that exist show a long list of pupils
distinguished in northern life, includ-
ing Percy Pease, Deputy-Premier of
Queensland. On jubilee day the foun-
dation stone of a new building, designed
in keeping with the school compound
in which some of the trees are 45 years
old, will be laid.
* * * *
“Bosun Bill”: The sequel to the
wharfies’ strike at Darwin was sad. A
public holiday had been proclaimed for
the Labor Day picnic (July 26) and much
of the necessary organising work had
been carried out —grounds prepared,
raffles conducted, special train arranged,
abundant advertising and the local town
band practised. But, although volunteer
labor had unloaded about 400 tons of
cargo, the B.P. boat pulled out an our
after the 32-hours strike had been settled
with the town’s monthly supply of beer
still under hatches. The picnic was can-
celled by unanimous vote until the arrival
of the next shipment of “foodstuffs.”
* * * *
“P.S.N.”: When Geneva recently
ordered that there should be “paramount
chiefs” in New Guinea —-chiefs over
about 20 villages—a district officer sent
for the only man entitled to such a posi-
tion. The potentate was delighted, and
immediately assumed the dress of his office
—a peaked cap like a chauffeur’s with a
white band. Soon he was back at the
district office very crestfallen. The burden
of his complaint was: “Nobody respects
me as paramount chief because I have
only one wife. If I am to rule over 20
villages everyone says I must have 20
wives. I am a Christian, and the mission
says that if I have more than one wife
I shall go to hell.” The district officer
declined responsibility with “You must
make up your mind for yourself.” A
week later the chief was back, looking
happy, to announce: “I will be chief. I
have 20 wives and I will go to hell!”
* $ *
“J.W.”: Norman White, retired from
the managing directorship of Brisbane
“Courier-Mail,” arrived in the dingy old
“Mail” office in the early days of the
war, when John Wren’s racing men were
trying to boost the sick rag into life
with doses of turf competitions and
headings as high as One Tree Hill. The
evening atmosphere in the “Mail” office
in those days was something like that
of a front-line trench—death seemed
always to be lurking for the paper just
round the corner. From the moment
White appeared the “Mail” never looked
back. Its display, news, advertising and
staff management became models. The
staff was as contented as any in Aus-
tralia. White, a quiet, unobtrusive, tact-
ful person, seemed to have the faculty
of being in control everywhere at once.
He was very popular both with his staff
and in the business world outside.
* * * *
“Mcßocky”: Who says we northern-
ers are not a frugal, home-loving lot?
Brisbane, with a population of a little
over 324,000, for the year ended June 30
built 815 new homes and 870 the year
before at a total cost for two years of
£1,838,000, or about £24 per family and
over £lOBO per home.
“Of COURSE We must have a Long engagement; how else could I get
my trousseau prepared?”
"Australia Jane's" Budget
Arlie Woodhead and Lieut. Hugh Dal-
zell Stewart, of Dar-es-salaam, Tangan-
yika, are to be married in St. John’s
Cathedral towards the end of the month.
The C. Woodheads gave a trousseau party
at their home, Romany Rye, on the St.
Lucia-road, in honor of their daughter,
and decorated the reception-rooms with
peach-blossom.
Captain F. Rhodes, author of Pageant
of the Pacific, and his wife were the
guests at a morning-tea given by Lord
Mayor Jones and his wife at the City
Hall.
The Journalists’ Ball was one of the
best staged and most cheerful affairs of
the season. Posters and cartoons by well-
known artists supplied a touch of humor,
and 12 fleshy “aboriginals” gave a more
or less accurate demonstration of tribal
customs, including making fire by rub-
bing two sticks together. Mrs. W. Young,
in black velvet and a scarf of beaten
silver, was official hostess, and guests in-
cluded the Lord Mayor and the Lady
Mayoress, Donald Cameron, Dr. W. D.
Ryan and Mrs. Ryan, the C. E. Sligos,
the W. R. McDonalds and Etta Young.
There were 11 debs, at the Foresters’
Ball, held at the Blue Moon Palais. H. P.
McKinnon, Chief Ranger, and Mrs.
McKinnon received their bows, the lady
wearing black lacquered satin with a
floral pattern in blue. The Frank Eyres,
she in black, also helped with the receiv-
ing.
Dr. S. Julius, assist, superintendent of
the Brisbane General Hospital, married
Muriel Elsie Philp, of Toowomba, second
daughter of the H. Philps. It was a
quiet wedding, only near relatives being
present, and the bride wore her travel-
ling frock and had sister Gladys as the
sole attendant. Dr. Julius has a year’s
leave, and he and his bride left for
Sydney immediately after the ceremony,
en route for England.
At the Masonic Ball, 23 debs.; includ-
ing three sisters were presented to Lieut.-
Governor James Blair and his lady,
Brenda McCullough’s pupils put on an
amusing pageant called “The March of
Time,” which outlined the career of a
deb. from school days to the moment she
made her initial bow to society.
Third annual Insurance Ball also had
some unexpected entertainment. A fully-
equipped fire-engine took up a possie in
the middle of the dance-hall, and a mock
fire was staged. Arthur Sibley, presi-
dent of the Insurance Institute, and his
lady, she regal in black lacquered satiD
patterned in red, and with a matching
coatee, were official host and hostess,
The Bush Children’s Health Scheme
benefited.
The Educational Conference kicked
off with a little frivolity—a reception at
the City Hall and a garden-party at Gov-
ernment House. Lord Mayor Jones and
his wife did the polite in the morning,
the lady smart in brown marocain with
a floral pattern, brown velours hat and
fox furs. In the afternoon, Lieut.-Gov.
Blair and his lady were official host and
hostess.
Hamilton Ladies’ Bowling Club is
losing two of its most prominent officials
—Mrs. P. A. Clark, retiring president,
and Mrs. H. A. Arnold, who is leaving
Brisbane. They were guests of honor
at a gathering at which Mrs. H. M.
Russell, the patroness, handed over a
crystal dressing-table set to Mrs. Clark,
and a handbag to Mrs. Arnold. There
were flowers for both ladies, and also
for Mrs. Russell.
Clarice White, president of the Red
Cross Link, gave a good account of the
year’s activities when she presented the
annual report to members. Molly
Waddell was elected president, Nora
Booth sec., and Doris Brodrick treasurer.
Archbishop and Mrs. Wand received
the guests at the second annual Church
of England Ball. Black and grey cob-
web lace was the choice of Mrs. Wand,
and there were three debs.—Bertha
McDonald, Joyce Campbell and Mar-
jorie Skinner—were presented to Arch-
bishop and Mrs. Wand by Mrs. Hanni-
bal King, who wore white cloque, with
an original girdle of red and green, and
a P os y °r red carnations,
Glennie Old Girls’ Association held
its annual ball at Lennon’s. Mrs. T. J.
Bale, president, Miss M. Brown, princi-
pal of Glennie School, and Miss M.
Sutton, principal of Glennie Prep. School,
who came down from Toowoomba for
the. ball, were all presented with bouquets
tied with the school colors, scarlet,
P ur Ple an£ l gold,
Nearly 2000 people packed the City
Hall, both dance floor and gallery, for
the fourth annual Police Ball. There
were 18 debs., and Commissioner of
Police. C. J. Carroll was official host, and
his wife official hostess and matron
of honor. Deputy - Governor Justice
Macrossan received the debs. Funds
raised by the ball go to the Police Wel-
fare Club.
Dulcie Moran, second daughter of the
late J. J. Moran, P.M., Cooktown, and
of Mrs. Moran, Dutton Park, was mar-
ried at St. Andrew’s Church of England,
South Brisbane, to C. R. Hodgson, son of
the G. H. Hodgsons, of The Grange.
Joyce and Hazel Moran, the bride’s two
sisters, were bridesmaids.


rom London
comes Gordons
/
m
V
e
z
B
A
o
A* r
:
e r*** a
U«
<\.
S«2
i§
■
'.GENUINE LONDON^fc-IMf^ETEPI
Personal and Missing Friends.
TO GORDON TODD formerly of 3 Mary
Street Hawthorn in the State of Victoria
but now of parts unknown.
TAKE NOTICE that your wife . RUBY
TODD has commenced proceedings against you
in the Supreme Court of Victoria for dissolu-
tion of her marriage with you on the ground
of desertion And further take notice that
unless you ENTER AN APPEARANCE to the
suit in the office of the Prothonotary of the
said Court within twenty-one days of the pub-
lication of this advertisement the suit may
proceed in your absence and you .may be
ordered to pay the costs thereof. This adver-
tisement is inserted by KEITH McL. EMMER-
SON of 352 Collins Street Melbourne in the
said State Solicitor for the Petitioner at whose
office the papers herein may be inspected.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1007 of 1937.
BETWEEN NORMAN ERROL SPARRE
Petitioner
And OLIVE PAULINE SPARRE (for-
merly Olive Pauline Stores) Respondent.
TO OLIVE PAULINE SPARRE late of the
Home of Good Shepherd Ashfield in the
State of New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said NORMAN
ERROL SPARRE has commenced a suit against
you in this Honorable Court and is applying
for dissolution of marriage on the grounds of
habitual drunkenness and neglect of domestic
duties and desertion for three years and up-
wards without just cause or excuse AND
TAKE NOTICE that you are required to enter
an appearance to the said suit at the proper
office of this Honorable Court on or before
the Twenty-sixth day of October One thousand
nine hundred and thirty-seven and in the
event of your not doing so within the time
limited or obtaining further time the Petitioner
will proceed and the suit will be heard and de-
termined your absence notwithstanding. A copy
of the petition filed herein may be had on
application to the undersigned Solicitor free
DATED this Twenty-eighth day of July, 1937.
For the Registrar,
E. F. LENNON,
Clerk in Divorce.
C. M. GOSLING, Solicitor for the Petitioner,
56 Hunter Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1148 of 1937. .
BETWEEN ELSIE GLADYS ARMS Petitioner
And FRANCIS ARLINGTON ARMS Re-
TO FRANCIS ARLINGTON ARMS late of
Hamilton Newcastle. . _ r _
TAKE NOTICE that the said ELSIb
GLADYS ARMS has commenced a suit against
you in this Court and is applying for a dis-
solution of marriage on the grounds of deser-
tion; AND TAKE NOTICE that you are re-
quired to enter an appearance to the said suit
at the proper office of this Court on or before
the Thirtieth day of October next and m the
event of your not doing so within the time
limited or obtaining further time the Petitioner
will proceed and the suit be heard and deter-
mined your absence notwithstanding. A copy
of the petition filed herein may be had on
application to the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this sixth day of August, 1937.
For the Registrar,
E. J. LENNON,
Clerk in Divorce.
A ALISTER JOHNSON, Solicitor for the
Petitioner, 17 Bolton Street, Newcastle; by this
Agents, N. CHERRY WILLIS & CORCORAN,
Solicitors, 56 Hunter Street, Sydney.
Legal Notice.
PURSUANT to an Order of the Supreme
Court of the State of Victoria Australia in
the action 1937 No 275 mwhichTHE
TRUSTEES EXECUTORS AND AGENCY
COMPANY LIMITED is plaintiff and JOSEPh
CHAMBERS and JOHN McKERNON de-
fendants the persons claiming to nephews
and nieces living on the tenth day of February
1933 of EDWIN FOX late of Yarroweyah in
the State of Victoria Grazier deceased who was
born at Castle Cary in the County of Somerset
England in the year 1841 and whose parent,
were William Fox and Harriett Fox and who
died on the fifteenth day of September 1931 or
of his wife MARY FOX who was born a
Killeevan County of Monaghan Ireland abou
Se year 1846 and whose parents were Thomas
McKearnen and Ann McKearnen (or McKer-
non or McKiernan) and who died about me
vear 1923 or the legal representatives of any
such nephew or niece who has died since the
tenth day of February 1933 are by their
Solicitors on or before the second day of De-
cember 1937 to come in and prove their claims
at the office of the Chief Clerk Law Courts
Melbourne Australia or in default thereof they
will be peremptorily excluded from the benefit
of the said order. The fourteenth day of
December 1937 at 11 o’clock in the forenoon
at the said office is appointed for adjudicating
upon the claims.
DATED the 3rd day <*
Chief Clerk.
MORRISON, SAWERS & TEARE of 395
Collins Street, Melbourne, Solicitors for the
Plaintiff Company.
THE LITTLE SISTERS.
WESTRALIA.
Business, artistic, philanthropic and
social circles were strongly represented
among the promoters and helpers of the
Olde. English Fayre, a most ambitious
charity drive. Claude de Bernales placed
his new arcade, London Court, at the dis-
posal of the organisers, whose efforts
netted a good sum for the Public Hos-
pital. The Elizabethan building conforms
to the Tudor period, with overhanging
timbered gables, flagstones and the like,
and none of the 52 shops is a replica of
another. For three days and nights a
constant stream of people patronised the
sideshows, cafes, musical and dramatic
performances, and scores sat down to the
nine-course dinner, served with Tudor
dishes and liquors, with which the bazaar
ended.
As a prelude there was an Olde Eng-
lish Ball at Government House. Eliza-
bethan murals adorned the walls, the
orchestra played from a Tudor house on
the dais, 16 University students danced
round a maypole, and hot roasted chest-
nuts and beef-tea were served with the.
supper. Stan O’Brien, resplendent as the
Earl of Warwick, mastered the cere-
monies and saw that the serving-wenches
in the foyer did a brisk trade with their
sweets and masks. Mrs. Cardell-Oliver
and Mrs. Cecil Mason awarded prizes to
King Henry VIII. and Queen Elizabeth
(Dr. and Mrs. Eric Smith) and to a
comely “fair Jessica.” Mrs. Eddemonde,
Faye, C. de B.’s daughter, was as charm-
ing a Mary Queen of Scots as ever the
sun shone on, Mrs. John Hargrave’s 1540
costume was in coral velvet and taffeta,
Mary Ward rustled the rosy-pink creation
of the “Wyf of Bath,” and Joyce Mort-
lock’s peacock-green embossed taffetas
were built on sixteenth-century lines.
Hunt Club followers turned up in force
for the members’ race meeting at Bel-
mont Park. A cloudless sky and a nip in
the air encouraged fair punters to get
into their warm-but-bright togs, and most
of the all-black wearers added a colored
accessory or two. To get in the weekly
run, which no huntsman willingly fore-
goes, even for a race meeting, riders were
up betimes the next morning and had
covered many miles when breakfast saus-
ages and steak were cooked at the Bel-
mont kennels.
Plus-fours and tweed skirts gave way
to magpie suits and trailing draperies
when worshippers at the shrine of the
Royal and Ancient gave a combined cele-
bration at the Embassy. The foyer was
massed with wattle, flame flower and other
bushy cullings, and a glass case shielded
the letters of the association picked out
in marigolds, maidenhair fern and nar-
cissi. A large committee was headed by
Mrs. P. G. Bennett, whose single-flowered
shoulder strap matched her Parma-violet
crepes. Mrs. C. L. Biles’s black taffetas
were sprinkled with golden divots, Mrs.
S. L. Kessell’s azure-blue chiffons were
topped by an ostrich-feather cape, and
Mrs. K. Tepper sported green changeant
taffeta. Cathleen Atkinson sliced her
black taffetas with a self stripe, Mrs.
Evan Saw showed golf-ball dots on her
lacquered satins, and Mrs. Melville Smith
swung velvet trimmings over glittering
silver sequins.
Fossilised coral was Miss D. Hill's
choice of subject when she left Australia
to continue her studies in England. After
graduating from the University of
Queensland she won a research scholar-
ship and went to Cambridge, where her
work earned her a doctorate, although
only one per cent, of the researchers in
this field are women. Dr. Hill returned
by the Narkunda to take up a position
with the. Department of Geology in her
native Brisbane, and plans to visit the
Great Barrier Reef to make a study of
live corals and compare them with their
fossilised prototypes.
Royal Perth Yacht Club’s dance
attracted hordes of cheery souls to its
headquarters on the Swan. Vice-Com-
modore H. T. Forbes was at the helm
with a handful of honored guests near
the spokes. The main deck was reserved
for dancing, and the galley was housed
lower down, its products being served in
nautical surroundings. Mrs. Meredith
hoisted black silk nets over luminous
satin, Ruth Fleming reefed black velvet
to a yoke of silk spotted net, and Flora
Barrett Lennard sailed on a lake of blue
and silver. Mrs. John Love flew a
golden ensign on her leaf-green crepes,
Jean Fothergill set sails of white stiffened
fish-net, and a wavelet of oyster pleated
chiffon lapped Mrs. Doy Forrest s sequin
bodice.
Bill Duff and Roma Sheridan are
running the gamut of good wishes and
handshakes on the announcement ot
their engagement.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
The Stock Exchange Ball at the Palais
Royal to raise money for the Children’s
Hospital was a cheery gathering. A
miniature bicycle race, run in relays, in
which Exchange clerks took part, pro-
vided much laughter, and a bogus pros-
pectus issued during the evening had
many a grin in it. The Exchange, presi-
dent, Andrew Young, and his wife enter-
tained in the official box, and Lord
Mayor Barrett and the Lady Mayoress
were present.
The Public Service Hockey Club’s
dance at the King’s ballroom and the
Adelaide Ladies’ Rowing Club’s dance
at the Palais Royal happened on the
same night. The hockey girls dressed a
doll in a replica of their own costume
and hung it over the official box. The
guests were received by Miss Skevington,
the president. For the aquatic club’s
affair the principal committee members
were Miss Joe Thomas, Miss Pat
O’Malley, Claire Aldridge and Mary
Donnell.
The marriage of Josephine, only daugh-
ter of Dr. and Mrs. Owen Moulden, to
William, third son of R. E. H. Hope and
the late Mrs. Hope, of Wolta Wolta,
Clare, at Christ Church, North Adelaide,
brought out some unusual frocking. The
five bridesmaids were in glazed chintz,
with an allover pattern of an English
hunting scene. In three dresses the ruling
color was green, and in the other two
light brown. Bodices were tight-fitting,
with short puffed sleeves and Peter Pan
collars, the skirts long and very full.
Hats were of tan-colored felt, with shoes
and long kid gloves of the same shade.
The bride was gowned in deep-cream
taffeta, with a goffering of cream lace.
The bridal veil of tulle was held in place
by a topknot of frangipanni. The recep-
tion afterwards was at Lordello, lent by
the bride’s relative-by-marriage, Mrs.
Buffer Murphy, who with her husband
came over from Melbourne for the wed-
ding.
Violinist Bronislaw Huberman had
wonderful houses at his two recitals.
The second, in conjunction with the
Adelaide Symphony Orchestra, _ was
rather an eye-opener for the local instru-
mentalists, as Huberman insisted upon an
eight hours’ rehearsal.
L’Affiance Franchise held a well-
attended soiree at the Adelaide Women's
Club, when the guest of honor was
violinist David Sussermann, a brother of
Gregory Ivanoff, who has visited Adelaide
several times with vaudeville companies.
Musical items were contributed by Mrs.
A. E. V. Richardson and her daughter
Yvonne.
TASMANIA.
The committee of the Alexandra
Women’s Hospital ran a bridge party at
the Continental. About 100 tables were
filled; Lady Clark had a table, the
thing went with a swing and big fires
kept Jack Frost out.
Mrs. H. M. Cruickshank and Mrs.
H. N. Boyle joined forces in a well-run
afternoon party at the Imperial to wel-
come the new District Commandant’s
wife, Mrs. J. M. A. Durrant. The
changes of military life have brought
these three ladies together after some
years, the. husbands having previously
been stationed in Queensland. The guest
of honor wore a navy frock and a short-
length fur coat in cocoa-brown, and her
little navy hat had an eyeveil. Lady
Clark was among the guests.
Marjorie and Lilias Lyne gave a jolly
late-afternoon party at Hadley’s by way
of send-off to Mrs. Nona Field, who is
going to Melbourne on a long business
trip. Mrs. Field’s black cloth tailored
suit was worn with a dull-pink blouse,
a silver fox stole and a wide black hat.
Lilias Lyne was in dark blue, with
peak-crowned hat in the same shade.
Marjorie’s black rig had a little cape
of dyed squirrel, and her small close-fit-
ting hat was black. Although it was an
afternoon affair, guests danced in the
adjoining lounge.
Lady Clark put in an appearance at
the Collegiate Old Girls’ dance at the
Belvedere. The big room was decorated
in the school colors, red and white. June
Goddard and Zenda Edwards were joint
sees.
Betty and Margaret Hood were sister-
hostesses at a cheery sherry party at
their own home in Sandy Bay. Mrs.
Hood helped the girls receive the guests,
to the tune of nearly 100. Margaret’s
rust-colored frock had a cream collar
and vest, and Betty was in navy. An
orchestra waged a losing battle with the
hum of chatter.
Mrs. Ronald Dick and Peggy are back
in their Sandy Bay home, where Peggy’s
life will be a busy battle with clothes
and parties in the next three months
before her marriage to Lieut. Wilbur
Jackson, R.A.N.
The Blake Harrises are leaving the
Speck for England, with no very defi-
nite views as to their return. Mrs.
Harris was farewelled at a sherry party
at Hadley’s, where the hostesses were
Anne Broinowski and Kitty Cook.


Great Cough Remedy
Wonderful Money-saver.
For the last twenty years millions of
Australians have saved much money by
making their own family cough and
influenza remedy with HEENZO. It is
so easy to add a two-shilling bottle of
concentrated HEENZO to sweetened
water, and thus make a large supply
of cough remedy equal in quantity and
superior in quality to about fl’s worth
of the best of the ready-made-up
remedies for chest and throat ailments.
The purity of HEENZO makes it an ideal
cough remedy for babies as well as adults.
Keep free
from colds
&
2' thao* maak
INHALANT\
Breathe Vapex regularly
and avoid the misery of
“ one cold after another.”
A drop of Vapex on your
handkerchief and pillow
provides 24-hour pro-
tection. The germicidal *
vapour, breathed fre-
quently during the day,
penetrates every recess of
nose and throat—clears the
head relieves congestion
-—kills the germs and so
stops the trouble at its
source.
Of all Chemists
MADE IN ENGLAND BY
THOMAS KERFOOT & CO. LTD.
arid sold throughout the world
Australia’s Leading Financial Journal.
AUGUST ISSUE NOW ON SALE.
THE BANKING COMMISSION:
ARE ITS RECOMMENDATIONS SOUND?
NEW ECONOMICS
OUTLOOK FOR INVESTORS
STOCKS WORTH WATCHING
PRICE 2/- PER COPY. OR £11216 PER ANNUM POSTED.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., 252 George Street, Sydney, and all State*
'*3
Jk* Jii
“Let Atlas carry the burden.”-
Established 1808.
Security to Policyholders exceeds
£18,000,000,
F ire—Accident —-Marine
WOOL (Sheep’s back to store)
CROP Insurance
Combined Hail & Fire Policies
Applications ’invited for Agencies where
not represented.
ATLAS
ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
(ENGLAND).
D. NORMAN TRENERY,
Manager for Australia and New Zealand,
“Atlas” Buildings, 406 Collins St., Melbourne.
Head Office for New South Wales:
“Atlas” Buildings, 8 Spring Street, Sydney.
GUY H. HEATH, Manager.
The Long White Cloud
“Charge It!”
“Never has Maoriland been more pros-
perous. Unemployed reduced by 60,000
.... now on full time at the award rate
of £1 a day... .Guaranteed prices most
successful.” All that was part of Min-
ister Semple’s account of the matter,
spoken at Melbourne Trades Hall the
other day.
Mr. Semple didn’t explain that most of
the 60,000 are employed by his own
department, which has launched a
£10,000,000 “developmental” programme
with the cost of railway extensions figur-
ing prominently. Nor that, as Minister of
Transport, he proposes to “co-ordinate”
Maoriland road transport in much the
same way as Australia’s various regula-
tion boards, and with probably the same
results—denial of needed services, a grow-
ing discontent and no corresponding
benefit to Government railway finance.
And he said nothing about those
Maorilanders who have been criticising
their Government for “uneconomic”
undertakings. They are backed by the
findings of the National Expenditure
Commission of 1932. Surveying a
P.W.D. expenditure totalling £34,757,000
as far back as 1931, the commission de-
clared that the only revenue-producer was
the £1,226,000 spent on main highways,
“on which interest of 5 per cent, is being
provided out of petrol taxation.” But
motor transport, which pays quite a
chunk of this 5 per cent., is to be “co-
ordinated” out of competition with a
non-paying railway system in which
further fortunes are. being sunk. /
“Xo”: Dairy-farmers over here are an
independent lot. They have a way of ac-
tively helping canvassers, t.-p. salesmen
and Government inspectors off their
farms and then repairing to the party-
line telephone and advising equally vigor-
ous neighbors to “look out for a cheeky
blighter I’ve just booted off my place—
he is headed in your direction.” So I’d
give a lot to hear some rural descrip-
tions of the Labor Government’s Social
Science Research representatives when
they interrupt the milking to “inquire
into the standards of life on dairy farms.”
And it isn’t hard to imagine how descrip-
tively helpful some of the answers are
going to be to questions relating to in-
come and expenditure, housing condi-
tions, hours worked, rest, recreation, edu-
cation and health of Mr. Cocky and his
family. I’ve heard some of them
struggling with their income-tax returns!
“Mak”: Maoriland has a Fair Rents
Act under which houseowners have in-
adequate powers. So the Labor Gov-
ernment intends working to a different
set of rules when it becomes landlord of
the State houses now being erected. It
proposes to seek statutory power to gar-
nishee the wages of tenants who get be-
hind, and also to simplify existing court
procedure “in cases of default by an oc-
cupier, and for securing vacant posses-
sion of premises.”
* * * *
“Korero”: At the end of their last Tas-
man Sea flight, Kingsford Smith and Ulm
landed at Bell Block, a few miles out of
New Plymouth and 17 air miles from Mt.
Egmont, towards which both fliers, as well
as Jean Batten, set their courses. Until
“Is this your idea of a dahlia?”
flying boats were proved more suitable
for such sea hops, the same ’drome was
the popular pick for the Maoriland ter-
minal of the trans-Tasman air service
which has been talked of for so long.
Now, according to a New Plymouth re-
port, Bell Block still has a future. Not
only is it the half-way call for ’planes
operating the Auckland-Wellington ser-
vice, but it is to be included in Maori-
land’s present air force extension pro-
gramme. Underground hangars, a radio
station and military barracks are expected
to be established there. It seems a logical
enough development, as military machines
operating from New Plymouth could best
co-operate with those from Auckland and
Palmerston North in patrolling the west
coast of the North Island. And New
Plymouth is the North Island centre near-
est to Australia.
* * * *
“M.”: Weather variations since the
Maoriland job was begun in 1936 have
prevented the air-mapping of more than
just the Napier-Havelock North stretch
(B. 4/8/’37). Cloudless conditions are
required, as all the pictures must be
taken from the same height—92ooft.
in Maoriland —and the slightest cloud-
wisp robs negatives of the necessary
sharpness in detail. Pilots of the map-
ping machines fly in a series of strips,
their cameras operating automatically at
time intervals plotted to allow each shot,
taking in about two square miles of
country, to overlap. An average of a
square mile a minute is photographed
over periods of up to four hours on per-
fect days. Maoriland airmen found these
scarce over the last year. In England,
where air photography is more advanced,
pilots say there are only about 20 or 30
good picture-days in the year, but, as
yet, Maoriland has had insufficient ex-
perience in the work to strike any simi-
lar average.
*' $ * *
“Fergus”: Whitebait begin their up-
stream runs in Maoriland this month,
and till November amateur netsmen and
those who chase the little fish for the
tins that take them to Australia will be
on the job. Along the Waikato River,
Maoris will be catching them for the
unique, but incidental, purpose of devot-
ing the usual percentage of their sale
price to the upkeep of the Maori king’s
Ngaruawahia household—a strange tax,
but a voluntary one. Whitebait revenue
hasn’t been so good in recent years;
bad seasons have become the rule, rather
than the exception. Marine Department
officers discovered why after they began
to investigate the life history of this fish,
which is peculiar to Maoriland. They
learned that it spawns on the stems of
rushes along the banks of tidal rivers
and streams, and that civilisation, in the
form of human beings and their stock,
is annually destroying millions of the
tiny eggs by trampling over the rush
areas where they are deposited.
* * * *
“Waitot”: Although several members
of Maoriland’s Labor Cabinet once lived
and toiled at Runanga, the South Island’s
West Coast township occupied by men
working State coalmines, the miners
seem just as dissatisfied as they were in
the days when the same Cabinet members
were their spokesmen. The Coast mines
are employing fewer men and producing
about a third of the coal they did in the
industry’s more prosperous days. Mines
Minister Webb says coal consumption
has so increased that there is danger of
a shortage; but lack of trucks and
delays to ships are still cutting the miners’
working time. To make things more
difficult, the Labor Government’s com-
pulsory-unionism principle has hatched
a preference bother ; after an old dis-
pute, non-unionists got jobs in the mines,
and now, by Government edict, every
worker must be a unionist. To cap every-
thing, the potential Australian strike
threatens the amount of Australian coal
available to Maoriland —about 100,000
tons are imported annually—and the
general outlook for Minister Webb is
far from comfortable. He happens to be
member for Buller, the Runanga elec-
torate.
# * * *
“Kiwit” Continued drift of popula-
tion from the South to the North Island
was revealed in the last Maoriland
census, and consequent changes in elec-
toral boundaries have been recom-
mended. By these, the South Island loses
another seat to the North, and next elec-
tion it will have only 28 members to
North’s 48. The axe is to fall on the
old Chalmers electorate in the Otago
province, at present held by Labor’s
Archie Campbell. In the North, the
Oroua stronghold of J. G. Cobbe
(Nationalist) disappears into the adjoin-
ing districts of Rangitikei and Manawatu,
but two new ones are to be created on
the outskirts of Auckland and Welling-
ton. Smaller boundary alterations are
recommended for nearly every other elec-
torate.
“Ticker”: The three ships that piled
up on Kaipara Rock in the Hauraki Gulf
(B. 4/8/’37) are not the
only bottoms to have
struck uncharted rocks in
Maoriland waters. In
1902 the Elingamite was
lost through an error in
the charted position of the
Three Kings. There
would have been many
more disasters had skip-
pers been content to rely
upon official nautical
charts when passing round
Maoriland’s tricky coast-
line. Sea maps are miles
out in some of their
reckonings ; moreover, the
bearings frequently vary
from chart to chart. Navi-
gators usually allow a mile and a half
safety margin when running to “blind”
bearings ; but, off the east coast of the
North Island, the Ariel Rocks are shown
on two charts to be exactly a mile and
a half apart. For Timaru, in the South
Island, one nautical almanac gives bear-
ings it confidently states will “place a
ship a full mile from the breakwater.”
But they don’t; an obedient skipper, un-
aware of the inaccuracy, would find his
tub nosing the end of the breakwater.
Sea-floor disturbances affect the accuracy
of charts.


The “ISLANDS THREE”
(,1s described, in this issue of “The Bulletin.’ )
N. H. Buchanan, radio engineer re-
sponsible for construction of radio
equipment designed by Don B. Knock
for the Mackay 1937 Aerial Expedition,
will supply Bulletin readers in the
Pacific Islands, Northern Territory, and
inland areas with this receiver, as de-
scribed.
The “Islands Three” is ideal for un-
unfailing all-wave reception in tropical
climates. It has such features as solid
brass chassis, impregnated coils,
ceramic insulation, etc.
Price —completely wired and tested,
including valves, headphones, three
“Superdyne” B batteries and 2v.
accumulator £24/9/4
Air-Cell (if required) £l/1/8 extra.
Price complete in table cabinet, with
Amplion Permag speaker in addition to
’phones £2B/14/4
Air-Cell (if required) £l/1/8 extra.
Bulletin receivers, also short-wave,
dual-wave and broadcast receivers and
P.A. amplifier equipment, made to
order.
N. H. BUCHANAN,
Specialist Radio Engineer,
STERLING RADIO (1937) PTY.,
LTD.,
37-39 ABERCROMBIE STREET,
SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA.
"RADIO”
The world-wide technical
authority of amateur, short-
wave and experimental radio.
Subscriptions are 18/6 per year in
Australia, acceptable at “Tbe Bulletin
Office, 252 George Street, Sydney.
“Radio” is published monthly in Los
Angeles (U.S.A.) under date as of
the following mouth; 10 issues yeail>.
including special annual number; tue
August and September issues (whicb
would normally appear in July and
August) are omitted.
Copies are mailed to subscribers direct
from U.S.A.
Read “Radio” regularly and keep m
advance of the times.
“Radio” is the fastest selling of all
radio magazines—on the bookstall
to-day, sold out to-morrow.
Subscribe direct and be sure ot
vour copy!
RADIO NEWS.
DON B. KNOCK'S PAGES.
THE ISLANDS THREE.
A battery-tuned R.F. receiver designed especially for people in New
Guinea, the Solomons, Northern Territory and similar locations, who
require something simple, effective and trouble-free, is described here.
This receiver is for headphone use only, and is identical with those
used on the Mackay 1937 Aerial Reconnaisance Expedition in Central
Australia.
With a simple tuned R.F. receiver of
this nature, so long as good components
are used throughout to counter the effect
of high humidity, the job will last for
years without trouble. If trouble should
develop, and the best of radio equipment
is not immune, it can be readily ser-
Circuit diagram of the Islands Three. This receiver will operate a loudspeaker on strong signals.
viced on the spot. Many Bulletin
readers in island locations have had to
send complicated superhet receivers thou-
sands of miles for repair, and they
would prefer good headphone reception
to none at all.
This receiver is a straightforward three-
valve affair with regenerative detector
preceded by a tuned R.F. amplifier, and
with a single pentode audio stage. The
valves are two-volt types, and filament
current supply offers little or no diffi-
culty. Accumulator supply can be used ;
the circuit is drawn for a two-volt
supply; or an Eveready Air-Cell can
be used with a series resistor to keep
the voltage supply to two. A good heavy-
duty two-volt accumulator will run this
receiver for four weeks several hours
daily between charges, and an Air-Cell
would last about a year.
By using plug-in coils, the receiver
layout is simplified, and it is little trouble
to change coils. With the coil details
specified it will take in the whole run of
short-wave channels and the usual broad-
cast range. 135 volts of B battery, pref-
erably of the extra-heavy-duty Superdyne
type, will, if the batteries can be kept
reasonably cool, see out eight months
or so.
Circuit and Details.
The R.F. valve is a Philips KF3, a two-
volt directly-heated R.F. pentode of par-
ticularly desirable characteristics. It is
fitted with the Philips P-type base, so
that a Philips P socket is necessary. The
valve is capacity-coupled to the detector,
which is a 15 (a type once popular as
an autodyne detector in battery super-
hets, but far more valuable as a regenera-
tive screen grid detector). This valve is
the only indirectly-heated two-volt valve
made, and is particularly useful in con-
nection with cathode feed-back coil and
electron coupling. It oscillates smoothly
and is very sensitive. The valve base
calls for a five-pin socket. The detector
is impedance-coupled to the audio pen-
tode, which is a IK4 (or ID4) with a four-
pin base. Filament ratings are: KF3, two
volts at .05 ampere; 15, two volts at
.22 ampere ; and IK4, two volts at .12
ampere. Total drain is thus only .39 of
an ampere. For use with an Air-Cell,
therefore, a resistor of .86 of an ohm
must be included in series with the A
positive battery lead.
Although it would be simple enough
to provide battery bias for the IK4 pen-
tode, it was decided to use automatic
bias. A 500-ohm resistor in the grid and
B negative return to earth (chassis) takes
care of this. The resistor has very little
load to carry, and is not likely to break
down normally. Headphones with D.C.
flowing through them are likely to de-
velop trouble in tropical climates, so
the D.C. is kept out by using choke
capacity coupling for the output. One
side of the ’phones is thus earthed, and
this helps considerably in getting away
from body capacity effects on short
waves.
Components and Constructional Points.
The chassis can be laid out to suit
individual ideas. The original was made
up on an aluminium base measuring Min.
by 7in., turned down 3in. at the ends.
The panel is Min. by 7in., and the screen-
ing partition between the R.F. and de-
tector stages is made up of two pieces,
7in. by sin,, with right-angled bends
for bolting to the top of the chassis. These
two partitions are placed lin. apart and
serve effectively to screen off the R.F.
stage.
For use in the tropics the entire chassis
is painted or sprayed with lacquer.
Assemble all the components and then
remove them for the spraying. Natur-
ally it cannot very well be done with
them in place. At little more expense, a
lacquered brass chassis is recommended
for tropical use.
The R.F. stage is separately controlled
(not ganged with the detector), and a ver-
nier dial is not necessary here. Refer-
ence to the illustration of the Mackay
installation on the Dragonfly ’plane will
show the controls. A scale and pointer
knob are used for the R.F. As there is
a fair amount of latitude in tuning here,
even at short waves, this is all necessary,
and it is by no means a finicky control.
Thb variable condensers for tuning are
of English Formo make, of .00016mfd.
These condensers are particularly robust.
Another suitable make is the Eddystone.
The two vernier dials in the centre of the
receiver are for detector tuning and band-
spread respectively. The bandspread con-
denser (in parallel with the detector tun-
ing) is a 15mmfd. Raymart. All the
variable condensers have ceramic insu-
lation, a most important point for tropi-
cal use. Immediately beneath the two
vernier dials is the knob for the regenera-
tion control. This is a 50,000-ohm poten-
tiometer in the screen grid of the 15
detector. The large knob to the right of
the vernier dials is the volume control,
a 500,000-ohm potentiometer in the grid
of the IK4. The knob on the left below
the R.F. control is the battery switch, and
on the right below the volume control
is the headphone jack.
As the circuit diagram shows, pro-
vision is made either for
coupling a doublet or plain
aerial to the R.F. stage, and
in the latter case a five-plate
midget variable is included
in series to the R.F. valve
grid. All resistor and con-
denser values are marked
on the diagram, and the
only items calling for com-
ment are R.F. and audio
chokes. The R.F. chokes
in both cases are multi-
section honeycombs,
although the ordinary slot-
wound variety can be used.
The most important item in
the receiver is the 250-henry
audio choke for coupling
the detector to the audio
stage. There must be no
chance of breakdown, and
for this reason it is of Glad-
stone make (agents, Noyes
Bros., Sydney). The .smeg.
resistor connected across
this choke is there to check
any tendency to audio in-
stability as the detector goes
into oscillation.
The 50-henry choke in the
plate circuit of the IK4 is
a good brand of speaker
transformer primary for a
pentode. So long as it is
well impregnated, it will be
trouble-free. The 15mmfd.
“postage stamp” condenser
used for coupling R.F. to detector is a
compression mica type, made in a ceramic
moulding. There must be no leakage,
here, or a positive bias on the detector
grid will ruin oscillation control. Good
mica condensers are used throughout, and
the .lmfd. tubulars used for screen by-
pass, also the four lmfd. types, are a
faultless make. It is good policy to
check and double-check every component
before it is wired into place.
A valve screen is needed for the
IK4, but the KF3 is a metallised valve
and thus self-screened. The battery
switch is a double-pole of single-
{fjfow toggle type, which breaks the fila-
ment and plate supplies together. There
can thus be no drain from the B battery-
through the regeneration potentiometer
when the receiver is idle. The plug-in
coils, two for each range, are wound for
the short waves on “12-50” make
formers, and the broadcast range is
covered by winding coils on Sirufer iron
cores. The latter are screened in small
cans, and fitted to four-pin valve bases
to plug in to the mountings. The coil
mountings are four-pin Amphenol
ceramic sockets, and these are mounted
on stand off-pillars lin. above the chassis
top.
Coils.
The coil chart given for the. Ideal Bat-
tery T.R.F. receiver in B. 28/4/’37 will
serve for the grid windings of both R.F.
and detector stages in the 20-, 40- and
80-metre ranges. The 160-metre range
is not included, but there is no reason
why a set of coils for this range should
not be made for those who might like to
search around those wave-lengths. The
plate coil windings in the chart do not
correspond to the cathode coil windings
in this receiver. In each case the cathode
coil has only five turns. The connections,
in relationship to the grid coil, are as in
the circuit diagram. The cathode end
of the coil is next to the earth end of the
grid coil, with a space of about -Jin.
between windings.
All short-wave coils can be wound with
the wire sizes shown in the chart, or
close-wound with 26 D.S.C. wire. Wind-
ings for the Sirufer cores for the broad-
cast range are 130 turns of 34 D.S.C. for
the grids (in two slots) and five turns of
26 D.S.C. for cathode coil in the de-
tector. If a doublet aerial coil is wanted
for the R.F. coil, this can consist of five
turns wound as for the cathode coil in
the detector. By using broadcast coils
of this iron-cored type in screens, quite
a remarkable degree of selectivity can
be obtained.
For guidance in close-winding short-
wave coils, the grids in each case will
have five turns of 26 D.S.C. for 12 to
25 metres, 10 turns for 24 to 50 metres
and 22 turns for 48 to 100 metres. As
bandspread tuning is provided, there is
little to be gained by space-winding the
turns.
Wiring.
Rigidity in the wiring of the R.F. and
detector grid circuits is desirable. The
tuned circuits are wired up with 16 bare
copper wire. The rest of the receiver is
wired with the usual push-back flex.
Carefully soldered joints are made
throughout. In the original receiver all
The receiver in the Dragonfly aeroplane installation
of the Mackay expedition is shown in the top portion
of the equipment. It is exactly similar to the
Islands Three.
joints were double-soldered. As it had to
stand vibration continuously in the aii,
the joints were bound with fine wire and
then soldered together. Such procedure


Parts List for the Islands Three.
A three-valve two-volt receiver identical with
those used by the Mackay 1937 Expedition, and
particularly designed for tropical conditions.
Brass chassis (ducoed or otherwise protected
. after preliminary assembly), by 2in.
by 7in.
Panel, 15£in. by 8in.
Two screening partitions, 7in. by 5in., with |in.
turnover.
Two Formo or Eddystone ,00016mfd. variable
condensers.
One Raymart 15mmfd. condenser.
One pointer knob and scale for R.F. tuning.
Two vernier dials (detector and bandspread).
One Gladstone 250-henry impregnated audio
choke (detector coupling).
One 50-henry impregnated audio choke (head-
phone coupling).
One 50,000-ohm potentiometer.
One 500,000-ohm potentiometer.
Three plain knobs.
Two multi-section honeycomb R.F. chokes.
One 15mmfd. mica compression condenser
(ceramic moulded).
One 2meg. gridleak.
Two 10,000-ohm 1-watt resistors.
One 500-ohm resistor (auto bias on 1K4).
One .86-ohm resistor (if Eveready Air-Cell used
for filaments).
One .5meg. resistor.
One .lmeg. resistor.
One double pole single-throw toggle switch (bat-
tery switch).
Four 1mfd. condensers (250-volt working).
Two .lmfd. tubular condensers.
Three .OOOlmfd. mica condensers.
One .Olmfd. mica condenser.
One five-plate midget variable condenser (aerial
coupling).
One headphone jack and plug.
One Philips P socket (for KF3).
One five-pin socket for 15 detector.
One four-pin socket for 1K4 pentode audio.
Two four-pin Amphenol sockets for coil
mountings, with stand-off pillars.
Six 12-50 short-wave coil formers, four-
pin.
Two Sirufer cores and four-pin valve bases for
broadcast coils, in screening cans.
One Philips KF3 valve.
One 15 valve.
One 1K4 valve.
One valve screen.
135 volts B battery.
One 2-volt accumulator or Eveready Air-Cell.
One pair 2000-ohm headphones (Emmco).
Wire, battery leads, screws, nuts, wire for coils,
aerial and earth terminals.
iff
(if
if.
f
RADIOTRONS
are sold in sealed cartons for your protection. Each valve is
thoroughly tested before leaving the factory and comes to
you in perfect condition. Always insist on Radiotrons.
AMALGAMATED
WIRELESS (A/SIA)
LIMITED
47 York Street, Sydney
167-169 Queen St, Melbourne
National Electrical and
Engineering Co. Ltd.,
Wellington, N.Z.
AUSTRALIAN
GENERAL ||| ELECTRIC
LIMITED
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane
Adelaide, Hobart
VIS-7
(Advertisements ot Amalgamated Wireless Valve Co. Pty. Limited.)
is the Civil Aviation Department’s speci-
fication for aircraft radio.
Operation and Results.
The receiver is simple to use owing
to the extreme smoothness of oscillation
control. As the 15 is an indirectly-heated
valve, a few seconds must be allowed for
it to warm up. The regeneration con-
trol is advanced until the detector just
oscillates, and on rotation of the tuning
dial signals should be heard. A touch
on the R.F. control will bring this into
resonance, and signal strength will in-
crease considerably. If the receiver is
properly constructed with regard to short
grid leads and sensible layout, there will
be no interlocking between R.F. and
detector.
Two of these receivers were used by the
Mackay Expedition, and perfect two-
way communication was maintained be-
tween ’plane and base, even with the
’plane a few hundred miles distant. The
ground station operator, located at
Tanami, reported remarkable reception
from stations all over the world. For
three valves, this little job will be hard to
outclass.
DON B. KNOCK.
Radio Comment.
“Cluny”: The home-constructed set
that won’t work is usually suffering from
some such complaint as wire twisted
around terminals in place of being sol-
dered to lugs ; soldered joints that have
not been tested ; failure to recognise, cor-
rect terminals on a standard valve base ;
omission of earth connections when metal
chassis are substituted for wood-and-
bakelite in an original diagram ; coils con-
nected in reverse ; destruction of fixed
condensers by faulty soldering; short-
circuiting variable condenser plates ; trim-
mers adjusted with metal screwdrivers ;
faulty components from old sets and new
ones damaged by careless handling dur-
ing assembly. One golden rule: Always
twist wires solidly together with the pliers
before applying solder to the joint with a
clean, tinned iron, and never use acid in
place of flux.
* * * *
July issue of “Radio,” U.S.A., contains
the usual imposing list of technical
articles for transmitting amateurs and
radio engineers. Ray Dawley (W6DHG)
shows how to get 60 watts of
audio out of 6L6Gs for modulator or
amplifier work, and the erection and
method of feeding a folded Bruce aerial
array is detailed by W6BCX. Other
articles are “Negative Feedback Applied
to Class-B Audio,” “A De Luxe Portable
Transmitter” and “The Simplex Universal
Antenna Coupler.” Subscriptions—lBs.
6d. p.a.—are accepted through The Bul-
letin office.
Amateur Chatter.
Since the departure of the Mackay
Expedition the writer has had oppor-
tunity to observe conditions on the 7mc.
band, in between keeping schedules with
VKSNO. On the eastern Australian coast
Americans, Alaskans and a few South
Americans come in, but there is an un-
mistakable thinness about the signals. On
the other hand, the band can be. remark-
ably good for relatively shorter DX. A
new station pounding into Sydney at
night on the key is VK9BB, who gives
his QRA as c/o Guinea Airways, Wau,
New Guinea. Writer had to cut a QSO
with VK9BB short, but learned that the
operator there is an old hand at the
amateur game, recently returned to the
fold.
A surprising feature around 9 p.m.,
E.S.T., on 28/7/’37 was the presence of
several VK6’s on telephony. VK6NL
had the best signal at this end.
At 5.30 one morning there were a few
very weak Europeans, notably Russian
and French, and a perfect bedlam of
commercial high-powered stations all
over the band. One wonders if the Cairo
Conference next year will be able even
to shoo these stations away, let alone
gain amateur radio any band-width con-
cessions.
S.W.Ls. are wasting postage by mail-
ing reports to VKSNO at Tanami. Such
reports may take months to reach that
location, and by the time this is in print
the expedition will be on the way back.
The VKSNO license is held by VK2NO,
and any reports will be attended to by
the writer. On 2/8/’37, Ferguson raised
the VKSNO doublet aerial another 15ft.,
and on the night schedule improvement
was marked. Although he hears stations
from overseas quite clearly, he has diffi-
culty in hearing some Australian States,
Vic., for example. Only three VK3’s,
and those very weak, have come in so
far. These conditions are similar to
those experienced by the writer at Wynd-
ham (W.A.) in 1930. The distance from
Tanami is under 400 miles.
Each issue of “Break-In,” the Maori-
land amateurs’ magazine, has interesting
references to the work of the R.E.C.
(Radio Emergency Corps). This is a
wholly amateur organisation concerned
with the maintenance of efficient portable
and mobile gear to provide a reliable
communication network in times of
earthquake or other emergency. Although
Australia is free from earthquake
troubles, there are sudden cyclones and
floods, and the organisation of an ama-
teur emergency corps is well worth con-
sideration. This should consist mainly of
amateurs proficient on the key and able
to call into action at short notice appa-
ratus to operate solely from batteries or
some power source not dependent on
any municipal supply. How many ama-
teurs, if the regular power supply sud-
denly failed, could keep a station on the
air? Six-volt accumulators always on
hand, ready charged, and a small 350-
volt genemotor can keep a signal on the
air for hours. Communication in that
period might be of vital importance.
VKZNO.
"Bulletin" Test Review.
(Manufacturers’ products considered worthy of
attention are tested and given an unbiased
report in this section.)
Stromberg 617 Vibrator Type Superhet.
Rapid strides have been made with
vibrator receivers since their inception a
year or so ago, and there is no doubt
that where six-volt battery charging facili-
ties are available this form of receiver is
very efficient. Latest to be tested is the
Stromberg-Carlson Model 617. This
page considers it the finest example of a
vibrator-powered receiver yet to hand. It
is a dual-wave six-valve superhet, giving
outstanding performance on the short
waves. Silent background is the chief
requirement with a vibrator at the higher
frequencies, and with the instrument
under review there is not the slightest
sound other than those normally asso-
ciated with reception.
Though a six-volt accumulator is used,
the valves are all of the two-volt types,
namely, IC4 R.F. amplifier, K.K.2
octode frequency changer, two lC4’s as
intermediate amplifiers, 185 detector,
A.V.C. and buffer audio and ID4 pen-
tode output. A lOin. permag. speaker
deals with the reproduction nicely.
There, are four controls, the first a
combined battery switch and tone con-
trol, next the volume control, then the
two-speed tuning, and finally the wave-
change switch. With the battery switch
in the first position the receiver is OFF.
Position two gives dial illumination with
receiver ON. Position three switches off
the dial illumination with the receiver
ON. Position four introduces a tone
control, and position five gives a wider
variation of the tone. The familiar
Stromberg dial is fitted, and the two-
speed feature is a valuable one on short
waves.
The vibrator unit is housed in a metal
box on the battery shelf at the base of the
cabinet. Fuses protect the. vitals, and the
two battery leads to the six-volt supply
are clearly tagged. With the battery well
charged, the total drain with the receiver
“flat out” was found to be just under
one ampere ; quite remarkable when it
is considered that there are six valves
and a vibrator to actuate. The perform-
ance fully equals that of, a well-designed
A.C. superhet. There are no noticeable
“images” from the powerful local broad-
caster, and the short-wave sensitivity is
such that amateur stations in England
and U.S.A. were tuned in with excellent
clarity. Such stations as Daventry and
Berlin had all the kick of a local. The
retail price is £45 35., very reasonable
for such an excellent production,
D. B. KNOCK.
Radio Trade Spotlight.
Of interest to listeners is the new eight-
page station chart issued by Philips
Lamps (A/sia), Ltd. It lists the principal
short-wave stations of the world, with
location, callsign, wave-length, power
and transmission times, and provides a
complete list of Australian broadcasting
stations. A valuable feature is a world
timetable giving times to the half-hour.
The chart is available to Bulletin
readers on application in writing to
Philips Lamps (A/sia), Ltd., P.O. Box
2703, .Sydney.
Australian Scientists'
Discovery.
What has been widely known in
radio circles for a year or so as the
“Dellinger effect,” where short-wave long-
distance communication suffers a com-
plete “blackout” at intervals, attracted
the attention of Dr. D. F. Martyn, of the
Solar Observatory at Mt. Stromlo, Can-
berra. He ascertained that these periods
of “fadeout” are caused by sudden bursts
of radiation from masses of hydrogen in
the sun’s atmosphere. He made pro-
tracted tests with special radio signals
investigating the upper reflecting layers
surrounding the earth, and co-operation
with the A.W.A. receiving operators at
La Perouse established that the periods
of intense fading on overseas stations
coincide with the recordings of variations
in the observatory apparatus. It was
found that the sudden radiation from
liberated hydrogen on the sun electrifies
the oxygen in an absorbing layer 50
miles above the earth’s surface. The
evidence is much more positive than in
the case of two previous theories ex-
pounded in Europe, which have not been
tested experimentally.
The Question Box.
The methods of connection outlined in the
enclosed diagrams have been tried for wiring a
differential reaction condenser in a regenerative
detector. In each case detuning has been severe.
How can it be overcome ?— 576.
All three methods are in order, and detuning
is probably due to some other cause —lengthy
wiring perhaps. It is essential to use no larger
reaction coil than is really necessary. Too much
inductance here would cause detuning.
* *. * #
(1) Is there any device that will step up the
battery current to the necessary voltage to enable
electric type radio receivers to be used with a
battery ? (2) Is the method efficient, and is there
any advantage over the ordinary battery set ?
575.
(1) Yes, the well-known vibrator. (2) Depends
on battery-charging facilities. If this is a prob-
lem, the straightout battery set is the best
proposition.
=s= * * *
(1) I propose to construct the Old Reliable
receiver described in the 1937 Radio Amateur’s
Handbook, adding a stage of audio power am-
plification. Two circuits are submitted, one for
Class B with a 30 and 19, and the other for a
pentode. Is the Class-B method the better of
the two ? (2) Any mistakes in diagrams ? —574.
(1) As a 30 is used as the driver in the Class-
B method and as a first audio stage in the
other, the 30 and 19 combination is recom-
mended. (2) No.
* * * *
1 wish to become an amateur operator and
have half a dozen books, including “Admiralty
Handbook of Wireless Telegraphy” (1931), the
“Radio Amateur’s Handbook” (1937) and Ghi-
rardi’s “Modern Radio Servicing.” Are these
books sufficient? —573.
Ample. Either of the amateur handbooks
alone would suffice.


NTS
LYS
Jfe
ROOF
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Fencing Wire
# Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in every
Roll of Netting.
Hi • ft
*»
■ &
raaßiit
jß* ;■%*'/
w
"LYSAGHT'S
WIRE, WIRE NETTING,
ETC.
SPECIFY
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Brothers & Co., Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street, Sydney
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
Australian Sheep Exports,
“Ghanam”: The export of Australian
stud sheep other than merinos con-
tinues. A shipment of 600 Corriedale
ewes went to Japan recently, and in Adel-
aide 94 British - breed rams Dorset
Horns, Romney Marsh, Ryelands and
Border Leicesters—have been bought for
the S’African Government.
Export will not help Australia. S’Africa
may never do much with fat-lamb rais-
ing, but it may certainly do a good cleal
more with medium spinning wools, if it
can produce the right types of sheep.
It used to be argued that the bulk of
the S’African clip would always verge on
superfine above the counts which form
the staple of the Australian clip. But
Japanese embargo experience showed
that fine wools can be competitors when
circumstances are right. If S’Africa and
the Argentine, both of which have had
some good Australian sheep, were not
turning out fairly large competitive clips,
Japan would have found herself com-
pelled to agree to a larger Australian
quota than the one for this year.
Crossbred tops prices round' 33d. for
58’s —the price has been up to 34d. —are
higher than those for 70’s a couple of
years ago, and they look like remaining
high while types of wool needed for
armies are in special demand.
Australia can use every English-breed
sire worth exporting both for the lamb
trade and for wool.
Hand-rearing Calves.
“Mookau”: A calf should
always be given its mother s
“first milk” for a few days
after birth. If this is not
available, the best substitute
is an egg whipped up with
half a pint of warm water,
plus a teaspoonful of castor
oil, the lot stirred into a pint
of warm whole milk.
The ration afterwards
should be 1| to 2\ quarts of
whole milk according to the
size and appetite of the
youngster, three times a day,
given at about the. same
warmth as milk fresh from the udder —
never cold. Three feeds a day should be
given till the calf is eight weeks old ;
then two larger feeds are called for.
After the first month, beginning with
a very small proportion, separated milk
should gradually replace the whole milk.
When the transition is complete, a table-
spoonful of cod-liver oil or some linseed
is needed to replace the butterfat in the
whole milk. During the fifth week, the
youngster should be getting three feeds ol
three quarts of separated milk, one table-
spoonful of c®d-liver oil, a little green
feed and trough-fed crushed oats.
For the ninth week, the two meals
should be four quarts each of milk, as
much fresh hay and oats as the calf can
eat without distension and a little linseed
cake about midday.
The milk ration should be kept going
for six months, but it should'be tapered
off gradually, with a gradual increase of
hay and crushed grain.
Sudden changes •- of diet need to be
carefully guarded against. There is no-
thing like a tablespoonful of castor oil
shaken up well with half a pint of hot
water to brighten a lacklustre eye and
brace a calf’s sagging appetite,
Polled Cattle.
“Foljambe”: There is a fortune wait-
ing the man who can add.to the families
of ' stabilised polled cattle. Though
every beef export' country of standing
polls its youngsters, the families of polled
stock in recognised Shorthorn and Here-
ford herd books are limited.
The best known and oldest Shorthorn
families are in'U.S.A. They are eligible
both for Polled Durham and Shorthorn
registry. The bulk come from Young
Phyllis, an imported cow by Matchem
in the Van Meter (Kentucky) herds of
100 years ago, and from the Gwynnes, a
tribe oT which some members came to
Australia to the Angas herds in S.A., to
C. B. Fisher’s;stud and to various N.S.W.
and Queensland: breeders.
One of these cows, Oakwood Gwynne
4th, had loose horns, and was bred to
7th Duke , of Hillhurst: (34,221), of the
famous Booth-Duchess herd owned by
“The Worst of it is the flamin' cows'll go dry."
Mi H.' Cochrane, of Quebec (Canada).
She produced a pair of hornless heifers,
Nell Gwynne and. Molly Gwynne, and
she also dropped a hornless bull to a
Bright Eyes Duke sire. Later, 1 as the
hornless breed expanded, U.S.A. breeders
crossed their hornless cows with Scottish
honied bulls successfully.
Australia will have to come round to
the polled beef-cattle idea if it is to
compete in the 5 export market. Horned
breeds, more subject to bruises, will never
win the prime market.
Dairy Rations.
“Silky Bag”: The nutritive ratio for
the milking cow’s diet varies among
species. Jerseys do best on one part of
protein to four of carbohydrates plus fat,
Friesians on a one-to-seven ratio.
These averages, however, are over the
whole year. In summer, a one-to-five-
ratio cow needs a one-to-f Our ratio and
in winter about one to .six and a half.
Body-warming requirements vary the
proportions. In summer, often less than
half the winter carbohydrates and fat
are needed to maintain body tempera-
ture.
In winter rations starchy or oil foods
are needed. Winter pastures which make
some growth are protein- and mineral-
rich, but poor in carbohydrates and
fibres. With them meadow hay or
lucerne and oaten-chaff are needed rather
than linseed meal or pollard.
Butterfat Record.
... “Hortus”: Mclntosh Bros. (Cobbitty,
N.S.W.) claim a record for their Den-
bigh Ayrshire herd. They breed a large-
bodied type, of Ayrshire and had 114
tested to last year. The best 273-day
record of each cow was taken to get an
average. It worked out at 4631 b. buttei-
fat without allowances, and 5011 b. with
allowances. The next highest-producing
herd known on the same basis is a
U.S.A. one. Its average worked out 71b.
lower, and the. herd was smaller by
several cows.
Within the breed itself, Denbigh holds
six. of. the seven possible Australian Ayr-
: shire records:
Production. Age.
846.61 b. B.F. 6 years 7 months
768.51 b. B.F 4 years 11 months
579.71 b. B.F. 4 years
541.71 b. B.F 3 years
519.61 b. B.F. 2 years 11 months
619.01 b. B.F. 2 years 3 months
And Denbigh cows have won Peters’
Test at Sydney R.A.S. 10 times in the
last 11 years.
The ration which keeps up these high
figures is'a lesson to stud-breeders. Each
cow receives three kerosene-tins of a
mixture of maize silage and lucerne
chaff (two to one) as roughage each day.
This works out roughly at 51b. chaff and
251 b. silage. Concentrates are added
for most cows: 101 b. to 121 b. of a mix-
ture of equal parts of ground oats, bran,
linseed meal and “hominy”—a pro-
prietary white-maize residue from
glucose production. The nutritive ratio
equals one to four: — 1 . .
Carbo-
Protein. hydrate. Fat. Fibre.
. p.c. p.c. p.c. p.c.
Hominy ..7.0 61 7.5 4.4
Bran .. 12.5 42 '3.0 9.5
Lihseed meal 30.0 33 6.7 8.4
Ground oats 9.7 52 3.8 10.9
Average .. 14.8 47 5.3 8.3
Cows are milked three times a day to
prevent damage to high-yielding udders.
Drought, Overstocking and Reserves.
“Ghanam”: At the N. S. Wales Fodder
Conservation Conference Lord Wake-
hurst pointed out the danger of erosion.
He instanced the fact that Africa was
only 10 p.c. under timber, and s*aid 30
p.c. was regarded as a fair safety margin.
Australia’s forest belts represent only 3
p.c. df its area, and every year thou-
sands of acres are ringbarked.
If the denuded country were put down
in improved pasture rationally grazed,
and used to provide a reserve of drought
fodder, it would not matter so much,
but the tendency is, when ringbarked
land shows a flush of new grass, to in-
crease the stock in the paddocks and
keep them there longer. The result is
eaten-out land and a fall in carrying
capacity.
The reserves for drought in N. S. Wales
when the 1936 autumn fodder census
was taken consisted of only 744,930 tons
of hay on 16,132 farms and 206,000 tons
of silage on 1671 farms. Nearly half the
hay (349,045 tons) and 45 p.c. of the
silage (90,000 tons) were conserved on the
Western Slopes, which carry less than one-
third of the sheep population. There
was enough to keep the district stock
going for about six weeks; in a big
drought it would be of little value. The
dairying districts of the coast could pro-
vide only a week’s ration for cattle, and
the North Coast, where half the coastal
area’s milk cows are pastured, had only
8000 tons put away.
The results of this hand-to-mouth
policy are seen clearly in the butter in-
dustry. In 1934-35, which was a good
year, the N. S. Wales output was 62,270
tons. The last four months of 1935 were
dry in most dairying districts, and the
result was reduced rations. The butter
yield for the last half of 1935 was 23,800
tons, 20.3 p.c. lower than the yield for
the same period of 1934.
In 1936, ,the dry period began in May
and lasted till December. The butter
yield for that half-year was only 18,947
ions, or 62 p.c. of the 1934 spring-
summer half-year output.
During the nine months ended March
last, the decrease in factory-butter pro-
duction against the same period of 1934-
35 was 15,900 tons. The Agricultural
Department estimates butter value at
£lO5 per ton, so that the loss was equiva-
lent to £1,669,710,0r £lOO for each fac-
tory supplier throughout the industry.
These figures take no account of losses
of milk or of stock.
Further, in the last half-century western
Queensland has become well served with
artesian bores, railways, improved stock
routes and motor transport capable of
moving considerable numbers of stock.
Yet, at 18,000,000-odd, Queensland sheep
numbers are 5,000,000 lower than in
1914, whereas N. S. Wales carries
20,000,000 more sheep than the year
before the war and 7,000,000 more than
the pre-war peak year, largely through
improved pasture and crop grazing.
Queensland cattle numbers are less
than they were in 1895 —only a million-
odd more than the average of pre-war
{Continued, on page 44.)


“OUT ON ITS OWN” FOR LIGHT DRAUGHT, CLOSE CUTTING, STRENGTH, SERVICE!
V. 5 • v.-'-• 1
-.^m|
r jwf
|jiflitf%|:; \ - .
mm
■ '
v^^MH
■ • :■; ■-' :f1 , i !., ;I it iM | ; AxSim
J'p
Hig
. ■ “Si- :; :0.
'
■HHh
H
■
V^V-^V':'
■» :
'
:v:, ; .vx r .
v> •■ -
>,xl* vv^^^^^SlSssS
hh
igfjgpg
IM
i„'V~
* J - S;
Jm
m flj
HMJI
n
Illltll
g;p^fv‘
n
SUNSHINE MASSEY HARRIS
REAPER *> BINDER
COMBINING THE FINEST
FEATURES OF TWO
World - famous MACHINES
Probably no binder has such a world-wide vogue
as the “Massey Harris.” It is used and is highly
regarded in every country where grain is grown.
In Australia a formidable rival has been the
“Sunshine.” Manufactured especially to suit the
rigorous Australian conditions, it has proved its
value on thousands of farms.
NOW the outstanding qualities of these two
machines are combined in the Sunshine Massey
Harris Reaper and Binder.
6ft. and Bft. cut.
FARMERS EVERYWHERE HAVE PROVED IT TRUE!
GLEAN GUT SUPERIORITY IN THE
MASSEY HARRIS MOWER
The CUTTER-BAR is'the most important part of any
mower. This is so fully recognised by H. V. McKAY
MASSEY HARRIS that they depart from ordinary
manufacturing methods and adopt high motor-
engineering practices such as:—-
• Using converter steel for the fingers and milling to
precision finish.
• Using high spring steel cutter-bar, finely milled.
• Machining and lining knife bar
exactly to give a free-moving knife
and a perfectly-lined cutting surface
over which the knife passes.
• The streamlined fingers
of converter steel
penetrate any crop
easily.
• The Cu 11 e r-bar is
hinged to enable it to
follow uneven ground.
These and many other features make Massey Harris Mowers supreme for clean
cutting, easy running and long life. 1-horse and 2-horse models, 3* feet to 6 feet
cut. Many ingenious attachments available, including Twin Guard Low-Cut Bar for
golf links, parks, gardens, etc. Ask your local agent for the special Mower Cata-
logue, or write direct.
m
Equally superior in its field is the
MASSEY HARRIS HAY RAKE
Strong, light-running, Oil-tempered half-inch teeth
of high carbon spring steel. Spring-back coil. Bft.
wide x 30 teeth and 9ft. wide x 34 teeth, for hay;
also Bft. wide x 20 teeth, for trash. One-horse
shafts or two-horse pole.
SOME OF THE MANY
POINTS THAT EMPHASISE
ITS SUPERIORITY . . . . .
Great strength to cope with Aus-
tralian conditions.
Light draught ensured by high-
grade roller and ball bearings.
Double-truss main wheel frame
maintains alignment under the
most severe usage.
Cutter-bar of high-quality material, per-
fectly milled. Will cut close to ground.
Elevator chains run round outside of
sprockets, giving longest possible period
of service.
Reel has seventy different positions, con-
trolled by lever.
Canvases are of best material, and are
available with plain or leather bindings.
Platform is double braced for strength.
SURE TYER &
TWINE SAVER
df
' This is the binding and
knotting mechanism that
means so much in reliable,
economical service. It is
of the weight-trip and
fixed—compressor t y p e-
binds tightly and ties
securely with the minimum
of twine. NO WASTED
INCHES! The knotter
(above) is extremely
simple and parts are
easily. replaceable. The
entire binding and knotting
mechanism is shown at
left. It can be quickly
set to regulate size of
sheaf and tightness of
binding.
X>°
O*
N
The Special Catalogue explains many reasons why the
Sunshine Massey Harris Reaper and Binder will serve you
best and save you most. Ask the local agent for your
FREE copy, or write direct.
H.V. McKJtY MASSEY HARRIS PTY. LTD.
(■INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA ),
SUNSHINE HARVESTER WORKS. SUNSHINE, W. 20. VIC.
Headquarters in N.S.W.: 27-39 Broadway, Sydney.
Also at 95-97 North Terrace, Adelaide; Murray and King Streets, Perth.
Melbourne Showrooms: 654-664 Bourke Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Queensland Distributors: H. V. McKay Massey Harris (Q’land) Pty., Ltd.,
Stanley Street; also Glenelg Street, South Brisbane, Q.


TELLS THE TALE OF
It’s not over weeks or months that you reckon the value of
Abbey Shoes. , , ...
Wait till you glance at friends of years standing and you will
feel a glow of warm satisfaction at the way their quality has
stood you in good stead.
Made in Black and Brown, in full and half sizes. PRICE, 29/6.
IF IT’S AN ABBEY SHOE, IT’S A GOOD SHOE
ABBEY SHOES
316 George Street, 224 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
Telegraphic Address: “ABBEY BOOTS, SYDNEY.
TIME
VALUE
XMAS FIJI EXCURSION
One Week in Fiji.
R.M.S. "Niagara”
leaves Sidney 23rd Dec.,
arrives Suva 31 st Dec.
R.M.M.V. "Aorangi”
leaves Suva 7th Jan.,
arrives Sydney 15 th Jan.
First Class Return Excursion Fare £33 (from Sydney)
EXCURSIONS TO HONOLULU
a delightful weeks’ trip: 19 days m Hawaii, or longer
if desired, by “NIAGARA and AORANGI,
sailing every four weeks from Sydney.
Return Fares:—
First Class £72. Cabin Class £52.
(From Sydney)
Apply:—
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., LTD.
(inc. in N.Z.)
247 George Street,
Sydney
or
59 William Street
Melbourne
NO MORE TAXATION-RETURN
PROBLEMS
The Primary Producer’s Account Book
costs you £l,
but that includes the free preparation of your Income Tax
Return by
H. Rawson Stevenson,
a taxation expert, who by his thorough knowledge of
taxation methods will see that you claim the maximum
deductions, and thus save yourself many times over the
cost of the book, and endless worry.
Read what one purchaser says:
"I am enclosing my cheque for £3/0/6 to pay for three
copies of the Primary Producer’s Account Book. I showed
the book I had already bought from you to three of my
farmer sons, so they are now each wanting one, as it is
something we have been wanting a long time.”
—H.K.R. (Bogan Gate, N.S.W.)
Forward cheque for £1 (plus exchange) to
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO. PTY., LTD.,
252 George Street (Box 252 IBB). Sydney,
and the Primary Producer’s Account Book will be sent you
post free,
if any illustration in “THE BULLETIN takes your fancy,, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
ffi^fyxxlZeii/rL
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
years when beef was in the doldrums
and dairying on the breadline. Failure
to provide drought fodder has been the
chief reason.
The Spangenberg Process.
“Zedo”: Tests of the Spangenberg
electrical-nutrient process of accelerating
plant growth have been conducted at
Hawkesbury (N.S.W.) College. The seeds
are germinated in a special compartment
with electrically-controlled temperature
and are watered with a special fertiliser
which gives results somewhat like those
obtained with nitrogen fertilisers.
The Hawkesbury experiments placed
the cost of producing a ton of maize
fodder over a 34-day period at:
Electricity (3d. per unit) £4 13 6
Seed (sd. per bushel) 3 16 9
Labor (20.48 hr. at Is. 5d.) .... 1 9 1
£9 19 4
The figures take no account of the cost
of the patent nutrient used (Hlb. per
ton of fodder) or of interest and other
subsidiary charges.
Still, Japanese millet produced fodder
nine times as heavy as the original seed
in seven days. Sorghum at eight days
was dense, 6in. high, the leaves small but
well developed and the seeds clean and
firm. The plants proved free from hydro-
cyanic acid, usually present in poisonous
'quantities in young sorghum. The weight
ratio of sorghum seed to fodder was
1 to 6.5.
The cost of the Spangenberg system
will have to be substantially reduced
before it can catch on in Australia.
Sugar Grass.
“Mulyan”: Once plentiful in parts of
all the eastern States, sugar grass has been
eaten out in many places. Years ago ex-
periments showed that sheep, horses and
cattle alike fattened on hay made from it.
In hotter districts, sugar grass grows to
4ft. high, but in cool districts only about
half that height. It produces heavy,
succulent leafage through summer and
autumn. Cultivation doubles its produc-
tion, and its strong, spreading root sys-
tem makes it a valuable protection
against erosion on creek banks and hill-
sides.
Stock eat sugar grass down to the
roots, and that largely accounts for its
disappearance. A good place to grow it
for paddock sowing is in fenced-off
bends of creeks.
Hints for the Farm.
“Lam”: A satisfactory winter ration
for heavy-producing dairy cows is 31b. of
silage (maize or sorghum) with lib. con-
centrates (linseed meal or something of
the sort) for every lib. of butterfat pro-
duced each week.
“Zedo”: Never open silage except over
the whole surface area. Holes make for
mustiness and waste. And go easy in
feeding silage to bulls —151 b. a day is
enough for any sire.
“Gumblegubbin”: A bush remedy for
removing warts from cows’ teats is the
milky sap of the cow thistle. It should be
applied on three or four successive days.
“Willeroo”: Rank grass that has no
other use. makes good mulch for
summer. As it decays it sets closer, and
by winter it has rotted and enriches the
ground. It should be cut before it seeds.
“Zedo”: The N. S. Wales Agricul-
tural Department, experimenting with
crownbeard, found that a pound of
the plant minced and fed to a sheep
killed the animal; another sheep died
three days after being given a chloro-
form extract of c.b. It produces pneu-
monic symptoms and sometimes con-
ditions suggesting gastro-enteritis. The
best remedy is to wipe out the plant, a
hairy weed with a peculiar winged seed,
common in the N.S.W. New England
district.
“X.T.”: The Australian Meat Coun-
cil has adopted a new Commonwealth
scheme for grading export beef, which
will come into operation on January 1,
1938 There will be three grades instead
of two, as at present. Only the first two
will be sent abroad.
“Gryllus”: Australian graziers are
again complaining about the enormous
losses in sheep and wool from blowflies,
and crying out for Government assistance
in combating them. The wool loss alone
in lightly-struck sheep amounts to 10 p.c.,
and on some properties shearing has to
be done two months ahead of its proper
season to avoid the worst results from
fly. And, all the time, sheepmen are war-
ring on the fly’s greatest natural enemies,
eagles, hawks and crows. If these birds
were protected, the blowfly pest would
be reduced to a fraction of its present
dimensions within a few years. The fly
was in Australia long before sheep came
to the country, but it is only since the
development of wide-scale destruction of
its bird enemies that it has become so
formidable.
“Zamia”: The C.S. and I.R. is not
taken with that idea (B. 14/6/’37) for
coping with blowflies by destroying their
camps. It says the camps are only used
in emergency—in bad weather, for in-
stance —and that they are not breeding
grounds. Further that their destruction
is not economically possible.
“X.T.”: The news that somebody in
the U.S.A. has invented an electrified
fence for stock —it’s just a single wire—
will probably set Australians experiment-
ing. The current will have to be very
mild both in voltage and amperage. A
trifling dose at low voltage can give
either a cow or a horse, a nasty shock.
Even mild shocks which do no actual
physical harm are not calculated to im-
prove the milking capacity of a sensitive
cow.
“Ghanam”: Judging by the expansion
of wool manufacture in U.S.A., Uncle
Sam should be prominent in the 1937-38
wool sales. Wool usage for the first
three months of this year (scoured basis)
jumped 25 p.c. and imports over 100
p.c. by comparison with the first quarter
of 1936 and 300 p.c. against similar
periods of 1934 and 1935. But Japanese
figures make sad reading:
Japanese Imports (First Quarter of Year).
From 1936, lb. 1937, lb.
S’Africa 2,600,000 28,700,000
Australia 82,000,000 25,600,000
Maoriland 9,500,000 21,400,000
Argentina 100,000 10,000,000
Other countries .. 1,000,000 16,200,000
95,200,000 101,900,000
“J.W.”: In many districts sweet clover
is known as Bokhara clover. It may
have other local names. It is a biennial,
very deep rooting, and a good remaker
of failing soil. It likes a fair quantity of
lime. Sowing should be at the rate of
about 81b. per acre, and seed can be
bought in 501 b. lots or upwards at Is. 4d.
to Is. sd. per pound. S.c. is a sound
fodder, but it is not suitable for milking
cows, as it is apt to taint milk. And it
should be kept away from wheatfields.
“Pappamosca”: Sweet potatoes are
hard to beat as pigfeed. The yield is
heavy on good soil —crops up to 35 tons
to the acre have been known, though 11
tons would be a good average. The vines
as well as the roots make good feed,
and there need be no trouble about
harvesting. The pigs themselves will do
the job. Build a few light hurdles to
enclose the feeding ground, letting the
animals move on as they clean up each
patch. Sweets are easily grown any-
where from the Manning (N.S.W.) north-
ward ; with separated milk they make an
ideal combination ration.
“Muni”: Mr. Wigan, the Common-
wealth Dairy Export supervisor, has had
a deal to say recently about the quality
of Australian export butter. During
seven years the proportion of choicest
sent away has averaged 54 p.c., and
quality has “altered very little.” N.S.W.
has an average of 81 p.c. choicest, which
compares favorably with Maoriland. He
is sure Australian butter can take pride
of place on the British market if manu-
facturers can give it as distinctive a flavor
as Danish butter. Improvement in this
direction must be through development
of greater cleanliness in cream.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
{Transferred from Service Department.)
Can sweet clover seed be procured in Aus-
tralia ? —6551.
Yes. Try Yates and Co., 184-86 Sussex-
street, Sydney.
* * * *
(1) What is a windgall? (2) Cause? (3)
Cuvc ? —6543.
(1) Windgall is a term for a distension .of the
tendon sheaths in the region of horses’ fet-
locks. (2) Generally as the result of continued
sprains the tendon sheaths become filled with
fluids. (3) In the early stages the condition may
be treated by bandaging, but once it is well
established no treatment is very effective.


MANNIE
MCCARTHY
CHAMPION AXEMAN
m : -
a
■*%•*•■-vtJMI
mMm.
SSSSS?:
m
Wmm. i
ill
11 1 " • '
World's 18 inch
underhand chop
record . . .
Commonwealth
standing block
champion . . .
N.S.W. underhand
champion . . .
9 Tuain on
TOOHEYS
OATMEAL STOUT
Auy4 the Champion./
HERE'S TO' EE
TOOHEYS, LTD., STANDARD BREWERY, SYDNEY.
Agents:
VlCTORlA—Goldsbrough, Mort & Co., Ltd., Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND—Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., Brisbane.
CENTRAL Q’LAND: Dalgety & Co., Ltd., Rockhampton.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA—DaIgety & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA—MiIne & Co., Perth.
TASMANIA—Ferguson & Co. Pty., Ltd., Hobart.
Northern Agencies Pty., Ltd., Launceston.


ON
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors— James Love, Esq (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq. ; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
Genekai, Manager —D. S. FORBES
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 97
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Males, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank "offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
Short Story
c Writing
tyree Lance
<Journalism
Learn and Earn The most thorough and practical
in Spare Tima ! Course of Training ever written!
Instruction and Constructive Criticism bv Practical
Journalists and Short Story Writers . . . You learn
how to Write and how to sell your stories and articles.
Fill 1 details sent on application to
I. C.S. School oS Journalism
no Elicabeth Street, Sydney
Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Refined young lady wants position as com-
panion in New Guinea or the Islands; pay
own fare. Refs. —6567.
To buy bound “Strand” and “Windsor”
magazines.—6s6s.
Youth (18), well educated, no exp., wants
position as jackeroo, sheep preferred, Q. or
N.5.W.—6563.
Shearing-machine expert and shed overseer,
N.S.W., open for engagement from August 15.
Exp. all station work. —6578.
To buy copies of “Esquire” for April, June,
August, November, 1936, and all issues prior
to January, 1936. —6579.
Technically trained advertiser, Ballarat, long
exp. executive positions in goldmining, wants
engagement. —6594.
Young journalist (20), typing and shorthand,
Bulletin contributor, wants work anywhere in
Australasia. —6605.
Information Sought.
(1) Cost of living in South Africa as com-
pared with Australia ? (2) Rates of income
tax? (3) Domestic service? (4) Languages?
—6469.
(1) According to the latest official estimate
available the amount of fuel, food, light
and rent bought by £AI in Australia would
cost £AI 12s. 6d. in the Union. (2) Taxes
are levied by the Union and Provincial Gov-
ernments. Individuals are usually subject to
the Union income tax and the Union super
tax. The normal tax rate for each £1 of tax-
able amount is Is. and as many two-thou-
sandths of a penny as there are pounds in
the amount, with a maximum rate of 2s. in
the £l. The super tax for each £1 of taxable
amount is Is. and as many five-hundredths of
one penny as there are pounds in that amount,
with a maximum rate of ss. in the £l.
Abatements similar to those allowed in Aus-
tralia are deducted from income before arriv-
ing at the amount taxable. A married man is
allowed an abatement of £SA4OO apart from
special deductions in respect of children, de-
pendants, insurance premiums, etc. Normal
tax, super tax and other taxes are also levied
by the four provinces—Cape, Natal, Transvaal
and Orange Free State. The amount of tax
payable is usually expressed as the percentage
of the tax payable to the Union. Thus in
Cape Province 15-22-1- p.c. of the amount
of normal tax and 20-30 p.c. of the amount of
super tax; in Natal 10 p.c. of both taxes;
in Transvaal 15 p.c.; in Orange Free State 20-
30 p.c. of both taxes. (3) Domestic service is
native, and the average rate of pay to house
servants is 3s. 6d. per day or 20s. per week.
(4) Afrikaans and English are spoken. Im-
porting and wholesale business is mainly trans-
acted in English, but Afrikaans is in common
use for retail business in many parts, and its
use in advertising and propaganda is consider-
able.
* * * *
Short history of the Young Ireland exiles?
—6592.
After the Irish insurrection of 1848 several
men associated with it were deported to Tas-
mania. They included O’Brien, Meagher, Mac-
Manus, O’Donoghue, Martin and O’Doherty;
also Mitchel, who was originally deported to
Bermuda, but later sent to Tasmania. Six years
after their transportation an amnesty was ex-
tended to O’Brien, Martin and O’Donoghue,
who remained in Tasmania. Three others
escaped, MacManus in 1851, Meagher in 1852
and Mitchel in 1853. Mitchel wrote an
account of these escapes, Jail Journal, published
in America.
* * * *
(1) What is the difference between a naval
base and a naval station ? (2) Names of British
naval stations? (3) Naval bases? —6so9.
(1) A naval base is a defended port where
everything required by a fleet is available —
docking and repairing accommodation, oil fuel,
stores, victuals, ammunition, hospitals, etc. A
naval station usually has some facilities, such
as oil fuel and limited supplies, but no docks.
(2) Pembroke, Weymouth, Aden, Wei-hai-wei,
Cromarty, Portland, Harwich, Yangtse, Shang-
hai, Persian Gulf, Trincomali and Colombo.
(3) Chatham, Sheerness, Portsmouth, Devon-
port, Rosyth, Malta, Gibraltar, Bermuda,
Singapore, Cape of Good Hope (Simonstown),
Hong Kong, Sydney, Auckland, Esquimalt,
Halifax and Bombay.
jp $ * *
What are the rainfalls, hours of sunshine,
mean summer temperatures and mean winter
temperatures of Sydney, Melbourne, Auckland
( M.L.) and Wellington (A/.L.) ? —6597.
Sydney, 47.32 in., 2476.3 hours, 70.9 deg. F.,
54.3 deg. F.; Melbourne, 25.72, 2243.9, 66.6,
50.1; Auckland, 44.85, 1966.3, 63.4, 52.7; Wel-
lington, 46.04, 2026.3, 60.1, 57.5.
* * * *
Origin of the word Cockney? —6604.
The earliest form is cockenay or cockeney,
the name given to small and malformed eggs
sometimes laid by pullets. The word then
applied to a child nursed overlong by its
mother, and hence to milksop or simpleton.
After that it was used as a term of contempt
by country folk for town-bred people with
dandified airs and ignorance of country ways
and objects. The word is no longer used
offensively.
(1) What was the order given to the Light
Brigade at Balaclava, and did they actually
charge ? (2) How many charged ? (3) How
many returned? —6538.
(1) An order was carried to Lord Lucas by
Captain Nolan: “Lord Raglan wishes the
cavalry to advance rapidly to the front and
try to prevent the enemy carrying away the
guns.” Lucas, seeing no attempt on the part
of the enemy to remove the guns, questioned
Nolan, who pointed down the valley to the
Russian artillery, whereupon Lucas rode to
Lord Cardigan, commander of the Light
Brigade, and repeated Raglan’s order, together
with Nolan’s explanation. The brigade then
advanced to its front, the pace was incieased,
and though the charge was not sounded those
who remained rode up to and through the line
of Russian guns. (2) 673. (3) 426.
•m * * *
Is there a cure for dipsomania? —6514.
Cure is always difficult and slow. Mostly
the condition entails institutional treatment and
psychotherapy. There is also a method ot
treatment (too long to detail) by the injection
of graduated doses of atropine and strychnine.
The alcohol has to be withdrawn gradually
to avoid insomnia or even delirium tremens.
Daily warm baths are beneficial. Proper supei-
vision is essential.
* * * *
To safeguard dogs against ticks and tick
paralysis ? —6637. .
When a dog shows symptoms of tick paralysis
an immediate search should be made, the tick
removed and iodine dabbed -on. Do not dose
or feed the dog, but, if possible, have a vet.
inject a protective dose of serum. Inocula-
tion is curative and not preventive. Prevention
is best achieved by daily examination, which
should be thorough, using fingers v and giving
special attention to ears and between toes.
Derris preparations are usually successful in
destroying ticks that are already attached and
in preventing attachment. The powder should
be thoroughly -worked into the coat. As it
possesses irritant properties the powder should
be kept away from eyes and nose. Derris
preparations are effective for only about tnree
days.
* * * *
(1) Weight of mineral tantalite compared with
tin oxide? (2) Color? (3) Any simple tests for
identification ? (4) If brought in contact with
white quartz, would it leave a green streak on
the quartz ? —6218.
(1) Tantalite is approximately of the same
specific gravity as tin stone. (2) Dark grey to
black. (3) No simple tests are available. (4)
No.
* * * *
How is olive oil made ? —6065.
The olives are placed in a sieving machine
to remove sand and dirt, and next passed into
machinery which chops them into a mass. The
mass is packed into bags and subjected to very
heavy hydraulic pressure for about seven
minutes. The oil expressed during this process
is the finest quality and is described as “cold
pressed,” “salad oil” or “virgin olive oil.” Oil
still remains in the mass, and the material
is next raised in temperature and pressed again
to yield the “second expression,” and once
more heated and pressed for the “third ex-
pression.” These processes produce oils ready
for use; if the oils contain impurities, they are
purified by processes with charcoal or chemi-
cals. Simple screw presses may be used for
crushing home-grown olives on the farm; any
method by which the seeds are crushed and
compelled to yield their oil can be used for
small clean quantities, but it is impossible to
extract the whole of the oil by such home
apparatus.
* * * *
A few details concerning Japanese Sakhalin ?
—6475.
That portion of Sakhalin which lies to the
south of the parallel of 50deg. N. It has an
area of about 13,935 sq. m., and in 1935 census
the population was 331,943. The most impor-
tant industry is Ijerring fishing, but large areas
are fit for agriculture and pasturage, and
Japanese settlers have been provided with seed
and domestic animals. There is a vast forest
area of larch- and fir-trees. The minerals found
are coal and alluvial gold; coal raised in 1934,
1,196,647 tons.
* =l= *
How can ants be banished from a garden ?
—6203.
Mix one drachm arsenate of soda and lib.
honey or treacle in a quart of water and place
a little in shallow vessels among the plants.
Borax sprinkled liberally is also a deterrent, as
is stirring the soil continually to prevent ants
forming into colonies. Where ants’ nests can
be located dig holes in them, pour in each
i-cup of carbon bisulphide, and cover with
heavy moist soil. This chemical is highly in-
flammable.
* * #
How can a hide be softened to make it suit-
able for rope-making ? —6262.
Place in a barrel and cover completely with
water containing |lb. salt to every gallon of
liquid. Leave for a week, turning twice a day.
Wash well and hang up. When partly dry lay
out flatly and work neatsfoot oil into it with
a blunt piece of wood. Roll up for a day,
hang out to dry, and if still stiff work in more
oil and hang up again. Working and pulling
in the hands will help softening during the
oiling. Unsalted lard or tallow will do for
the oiling if neatsfoot oil is scarce.
Where is Perthton (Queensland) situated,
and what sort of a place is it? —6318.
It is a small railway station on the Glen-
morgan branch, 46 miles from Dalby. The sur-
rounding district is noted chiefly for wool,
wheat and mixed farming.
* * * *
(1) Prizes offered by the International One-
act Play Theatre for its fourth annual com-
petition? (2) Judges? (3) Rules and regula-
tions ? —6611.
(1) First £lO, second £5, third £2, and London
professional production to the three winning
entries. (2) J. B. Priestley, Flora Robson,
Tyrone Guthrie and the director of the Inter-
national One-act Play Theatre. (3) Plays must
be in one-act form, from 30min. to 45min.
duration, in English, typewritten and bound in
art paper. Plays which have been published
or professionally produced are ineligible, but
an amateur performance will not disqualify.
Final selection for first, second and third will
be made at the theatre on the night of per-
formance. Author’s name must not appear on
the script, but on an addressed envelope
stamped for the return of the script. Names
and addresses in plain block letters. Each
entry must be accompanied by a fee of 10s. 6d.
and reach the office of the theatre before
November 30, 1937. Address to secretary, the
International One-act Play Theatre, 9 Wardour-
street, London, W.l. Scripts returned after
the performance if postage is enclosed, but
no responsibility is assumed by the theatre.
Value of the following postage stamps: (1)
N.S.W. Id. red, bearing a shield with four stars
and lion? (2) N.S.W. 4 d„ with portrait of Capt.
Cook? (3) M.L. 2 id. blue, showing Lake
Wakatipu and Mt. Earnslaw, inscribed “Mt.
Earnslaw” at foot ( unused) ? (4) Same stamp,
but inscribed “Postage and Revenue” at foot
( unused) ? (5) I have been told that (4) is an
error; is this so? —6577.
(1) id. (2) Id. (3) 9d. (4) lOd. These
figures represent actual values; some overseas
catalogues price these stamps higher. (5) The
word “Lake Wakatipu” was written “Lake
Wakitipu” in error in the stamp inscribed “Mt.
Earnslaw.” This was corrected in the stamp in-
scribed “Postage and Revenue.”
jH * : 1 : *
Value of a 3d. Australian stamp said to be
107 years old, bearing a portrait of Stuart the
explorer ? —6356.
The stamp is not 107 years old. No Aus-
tralian stamps were issued earlier than 1850,
and Stuart’s explorations took place between
1858 and 1862. The stamp was issued on
June 2, 1930, to commemorate the exploration
of the River Murray and bears the dates
“1830-1930.” Value to a collector is about 2d.
# * # *
Information concerning the five islands at
Wollongong ? —6632.
They belong to the municipality of Wollon-
gong, but are not occupied. They are not
named, but the island farthest south is some-
times called Perkins or Rabbit Island; it was
occupied many years ago by a man named
Perkins, who is supposed to have introduced
rabbits there. There is good fishing around
this island, and parties sometimes camp there.
The northern island is sometimes known as
Pig Island, owing to the fact that a pig used to
be seen there, origin a mystery.
* * * *
How to cement the inside of a tank ? 6574.
Punch -tin. holes in the tank at intervals of
about 12in. Both the inside and outside of
the tank should then be lined with a small-mesh
wire net, tied with laces passing through the
holes. A cement mortar (one part cement to
two parts sand) should then be applied over
the wire fabric. After about 24 hours the
cement must be kept damp, either by filling the
tank or by frequent sprinkling.
* * *
(1) To tan in bark liquors kangaroo hides
with hair? (2) Without hair?— 6462.
(1) Soak hides in water for four hours, run
off dirty water and cover with clean water.
Leave for 24 hours if the hides are fresh or
salted; if they are dry, soak for a further 24
hours or until they are soft. Wash well with
several lots of water, removing flesh, fat, etc.
Tan in weak bark liquors for a start and finish
in stronger liquors. Drain well, but do not
wash; then apply fish or neatsfoot oil, hang
and allow to dry slowly. When dry, stretch
until soft; if difficult to stretch, sprinkle with
water and cover for two days; again stretch
and dry. To make bark liquors, crush the
bark, cover with water and leave overnight.
(2) Soak as stated, then remove hair by soaking
hides in milk of lime —301 b. lime to lOOgal.
water Handle each day and leave until hail
can be removed. Time is generally six to seven
days in summer, longer in winter; 3oz. to 6oz
of sodium sulphide added to every lOgal. of
solution will hasten the process. Wash well
with several lots of water after removing hair,
flesh, fat, etc., and continue as directed.
■jf * * *
Some details concerning thorn-back rays?
6380.
Chiefly inhabitants of temperate waters,
though a few occur in the deeper waters of
tropical seas, they are usually armed with
spines on the back, and-males often have rows
of sharp, spiny hooks near the margins or the
pectoral fins. The teeth of the male have sharp
cusps- those of the female are flattened and
obtuse. The young are produced from eggs,
deposited in horny cases, oblong in shape, and
ranging from a little over an inch to eight
inches long. These fish, classed generally as
skates, are largely used as food in the Northern
Hemisphere, the pectoral fins or wings
having a palatable flavor. A small species,
Raja australis, is captured fairly plentifully by
trawlers in deeper water off Australia s south-
eastern coasts, but it is less prized as food
than the stingrays, commonly sold in the
markets as “skate.” Another and larger species,
R nasuta, attaining a width across the disk or
nearly four feet, is common in Bass strait.
There are many other species.
Brief Answers.
C.E.W.: No agents in Australia. Write editor,
“Radio Record and Home Journal,” Dominion
Building, Wakefield-street, Wellington, N.Z
5.8.: The phrase is from Juvenal and trans-
lated reads, “These penalties are given to those
who live long, that family disasters recurring
continuously, they grow old amongst many
woes in constant grief and in mourning gar-
ments”... .N. 8.: Reduce the cat’s food to
reasonable proportions of raw and cooked meats
and clean water; dose it with a mild purgative
and apply the following three times a day:
Goulard’s extract one part, glycerine two parts,
rectified spirit two parts, water 75 parts....
E.S.W.: The “Fox-under-the-Hill” was one
of the most important coaching inns on the
Western-road. Donoghue, the bushranger, is
said to have used it as a hiding-place, but there
is no record of the inn having been held up
by bushrangers... .A. F.: Write Co-operative
Building Advisory Committee, Blashki Building,
61 Hunter-street, Sydney... .J.T.: Christina
Stead has written The Salzburg Tales, Seven
Poor Men of Sydney and The Beauties and the
Furies EN.: The N.S.W. Parliamentary
Record (twelfth edition, 1936) should meet
your requirements. Obtainable from Cjovi.
Printer, Sydney N. 8.: Australian agents tor
Stanley Gibbons, Ltd., are W. Standish and
Co., 156 Castlereagh-street, Sydney H.W.:
The Garland gun used on Gallipoli was a primi-
tive trench mortar by which a “jam-tin’ bomb
was fired from a short piece of piping....
H.G.: On the basis that all posts now filled
will continue so and the composition of the
Cabinet remain as at present, the increased cost
involved in the British Ministerial salaries
proposal is expected to be £37,000 a year....
C G.: The president and vice-president of the
N.S.W. Metropolitan Water, Sewerage and
Drainage Board are appointed by the Govern-
ment. Five members are elected for four years,
one from each constituency, by the aldermen
and shire councillors in the local Government
areas within the board’s jurisdiction. Next
election, 1939... .S.L.: The first full-powered
vessel propelled by Diesel engines to come to
Australia was the Annam (5295 tons) froni
Copenhagen, which reached Fremantle in
December, 1914.... J.L.M.: The Golden South
(wooden clipper ship converted into a hulk),
while lying in Kerosene Bay, Sydney, caught
fire on May 29, 1893, with the old reforma-
tory ship Vernon alongside. Both ships were
destroyed.. . .E.G.: The following mixture can
be used for killing trees: Boil -J-lb. caustic
soda in igal. of water; when boiling add -jdb.
arsenic and stir till well mixed. Before mak-
ing up mixture, have several auger holes
(about l-i-in. diameter) bored around the base
of each tree about 6in. deep, slanting down-
wards. Fill these holes with the mixture and
plug with clay.... J.S.: Louis Esson was born
in Edinburgh in 1879, and was brought to
Australia as a child... .H.M.: The Imperial
Service Order was instituted by King Edward
VII. in 1902 to recognise the faithful and
meritorious services rendered by members
(men and women) of the administrative and
clerical branches of the Empire’s civil ser-
vices... .G.E.H.: (1) “The Cingalese” libretto
is by J. J. Tanner. (2) and (3) Copies of the
vocal score, which includes all vocal and
dance numbers, etc., are obtainable from
Palings, Sydney ; 11s. posted. (4) Music is
by Lionel Monckton, and additional parts,
which are included in the piano score, arranged
by A. W. Ketelbey, are by Paul Rubens. Piano
score is 6s. lid. posted... .J. 8.: (1) Played
10 matches, won 3, lost 7. Points for, 144 ;
against, 160. (2) Maoriland won both Test
matches —at Wellington, Sept. 5, by 11 points
to 6 ; at Dunedin, Sept. 12, 38 points to 13.. ..
G.M.C.: Leach’s Australian Nature Studies
(12s. 6d.), Froggatt’s The Insect Book (25.),
Gillies’s First Studies in Insect Life in Aus-
tralasia (25.) and First Studies in Plant Life in
Australasia (25.), Gillies and Hall’s Nature
Studies in Australia (3s. 6d.), Le Plastrier s
The Story of Our Plants (Is. 6d.), Breakwell
and Wright’s The Teacher’s Nature Study
Manual (3s. 9d.)—all obtainable leading book-
sellers H.T.: Weights of Australian coins
in grains: Florin, 174.54; shilling, 87.27;
sixpence, 43.63; threepence, 21.81; penny,
145.83 ; halfpenny, 87.5 G.L.: The Order of
Merit confers no precedence, but authorises the
holders to place its designating initials next to
those denoting membership of the Order of the
Bath. It is a special distinction for eminent
men, but carries with it no special title
F.S.G.: Curtis Brown, Ltd., 18 East 48th-
street, New York P.A.: Lockwood Bros.,
cutlers, of Sheffield, England, are represented
in Sydney by E. S. Ranson, Ltd., 352 Kent-
street... .L.M.M.: A Farewell to Anns, by
Ernest Hemingway (35.); The Beginner in
Bee Culture, by W. A. Goodacre (Is.), from
Angus and Robertson. Redheap is banned
C.J.R.: F.R.G.S., Fellow of the Royal Geo-
graphical Society ; F.R.S.G.S., Fellow of the
Royal Scottish Geographical Society; F.R.C.1.,
Fellow of the Royal Colonial Institute. For
qualifications for admittance write to each ot
the bodies named... .G.L.: Louis XIV. was
King of France from 1643 to 1715. At the
beginning of his reign the English throne was
occupied by Charles I. (1625-1649). The Com-
monwealth was declared on May 19, 1649, and
lasted until the restoration in 1660 of Charles
11., who reigned until succeeded by James 11.
(1685-1688). There followed William 111
(1689-1702) and Mary 11. (died 1694), Anne
(1702-1714) and George I. (1714-1727)...
J B T.: That swimming stroke takes its name
from William J. Trudgeon, an English sailor,
who used a hand-over-hand method he had
observed in use among the natives of the West
Indies. Soon after his return to England he
was disqualified for using it in a breast-
stroke race... .5.M.8.: A wife is not legall>
compelled to maintain her husband out of her
own personal estate or earnings W.1.D..
Napier, Gardiner and Co., 79 Pitt-street, Syd-
ney ...J.P.: “Man,” 11c Castlereagh-street,
Sydney (monthly, 25.) F.T.: The Vice-
President of the United States is John N.
Garner F.G.: Should be “These are ....
(Many others mailed.)


of PLEASURE and SAFETY
M
C7/wre7anV']}aeft
For best results
check your inflation
pressures at least
once a fortnight.
Barnet Glass
"Checkskid'Tyres
THE TYRES WITH THE LONGEST, NON-SKID LIFE
M89.i4.37 Barnet Glass Rubber Co. Ltd., (Incorporated in Victoria)
m
i
VAT 60
LIQUEUR SCOTCH WHISKY
“Vat 69” has the mellowness of age and the unvarying
character of a true Scotch Whisky, for it is hlended and
matured in Scotland by William Sanderson & Son Ltd., Leith
famous distillers since 1863.
Discriminating hosts serve “Vat 69”.
“Vat 69” in Dump Bottles, Half Bottles, and Flasks.
Distributors: John Woods and Co., Ltd., 388 Sussex Street, Sydney.
Sub Agents: Pitt, Son & Badgery, Ltd., 4 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Q’land Distributors: Australian Estates Co., Ltd., Creek St., Brisbane.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability Is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should
be addressed to the Editor, not to members of the staff personally.
N.R.C.: Pity to spoil a first-class yarn by
putting it into third-class verse... .8.W.: It’s
not a poem, or anything like one... .N.S.: Not
up to the standard of some of your earlier
efforts.. . .M.N.: We never heard it before
and don’t yearn to read it again Kila: The
repetition has a monotonous effect... .E.H.M.:
Too inane to be anything but original D.D.:
Nothing in it 5.E.8.: No use Zog:
Deadly tame.. . .8.H.: Not in our line. It
might have a chance in London K.S.: Offer
to send us “spicy news and grand sketches of
thrilling events” from India awakens no re-
sponse V.C.: A man would deserve one
who had to wade through much of that....
M.C.: Failed to grasp what it was about
C.TJ.: “If there were dreams to sell,” yours
wouldn’t fetch a fortune C.L.C.: Original,
we don’t doubt, but lacks originality. You
might try it on a woman’s paper M. 5.8.: It
has a pleasant tinkle, but we can’t quite decide
whether it is a warning against flirtation or
an encouragement to matrimony... .D.L.:
Can’t trace the article. The verse missed....
Y.M.: If you must write blank verse, stick to
the iambic pentameter Ibis: There’s a touch
of feeling in it, but the old horse’s day is done.
G.M.: It strikes us that you might easily
write something better M.S.P.: Doggerel
isn’t unacceptable if it has the saving grace of
snappiness. Yours lacks it K.E.C.: No
space for 50-line disquisitions on such compre-
hensive topics as “Life” H.H.: Obscurity
of expression is your handicap F.M.N.:
Quite unsuitable. To dispel your fears about
the reason, it doesn’t matter twopence whether
a contribution is typewritten or not, as long
as it is legible... .R.D.: “Night”—too inky-
black for u5....N.K.: Bubbles along melodi-
ously enough, but it’s not in our line
W.D.F.: It’s been much more tellingly set forth
in prose... .A.F.S.: Four opening lines from
“What’s Next?”:
The perplexing situation
Of world politics to-day
Defies the greatest statesman
To know what to do or say.
And you don’t help him A.A.: Hopefulness,
we are compelled to say, unwarranted....
P.H.: Quite good of its kind, but not our
kintj... .Z.V.W.: Afraid not. You don’t tell
your tale tellingly enough J.McG.: It may
be poetry, but the liberties you take with metre
make us shudder E.:
Picture the lands where Abyssinians dwell
One year in peace, and in another hell.
But wasn’t the latter more than a 50-50 busi-
ness even before Mussolini arrived?
TO ARTISTIC fAND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
C.T.: The same old unshapely figures, the
same old gags... .A.N.J.: Found the antics
of the dwarf depressing C.H.: It looks like
an attempt to solve a problem in geometry.
N.K.: Crowded with unnecessary strokes.
P.S.: The joke appeared in an overseas
paper E.C.: Why deny the park loafer
a pair of ears and a left hand? 0.R.: An
antiquated mother-in-law joke tamely illus-
trated. . ..J.D.: Can’t decide which is the worse
—the lion or the liontamer V.W.: Fail to
recall effort sent in by you three years ago,
but it could hardly have been worse than the
latest examples... .J.P.: Promising; look us up
when you get more confidence... .L.K.L.: Your
shameless submission caused the Religious
Editor’s eyebrows to lift J. 8.: Slapdash
drawing and poor likenesses... .G.S.F.: There
is nothing amusing in hits at other people’s
physical infirmities L.R.: You have un-
earthed an animal unknown to zoologists....
8.H.: Your pre-selection octopus was towed
out to sea... .J.M.K.: Figures are so heavy
that it would take a charge of dynamite to
shift them A.D.L.: A middling effort that
earned neither kicks nor compliments....W.G.:
You have sent that broken-down moke to the
wrong stable... .P.J.8.: Drawn with too heavy
a hand S.N.: You’d make an excellent
haberdashery catalogue illustrator... .M.E.: j
Interred in the cemetery of lost hopes.... j
F. 8.: It would take from now to Christmas j
to compile a list of your artistic sins H.S.: |
No use turning in sketches done with a faint |
pencil on colored paper... .A.M.: Reproduced j
it would result in an obscure mess... .L.W.:
It’s late for you to start taking lessons, and
it is doubtful whether they’ll do you much
g00d... .S.T.D.: Reveals all the hall-marks of
the amateur... .8.C.: Make linework smoother
and put more action into drawings W.T.:
Puzzled as to why figures are floating a few
inches below the ceiling K.R.: Characters
appear to have been made out of lengths of
barbed wire... .N.P.: Joke pulled the drawing
down.
A MIXED GRILL.
For the June quarter, the average rate
of unemployment among reporting Aus-
tralian trade-unions was 9.7 p.c. This
covers 447,000 members of 387 unions.
In N.S.W. unemployment among “all
available workers, excluding the full-time
equivalent of part-time relief workers,”
has fallen to 7 p.c. But the dentists of
the Treasury are extracting far more
revenue by special taxation, alleged to be
for unemployed-relief, than when the
figure was 33 p.c.
* # * *
A. C. Jennings, of Commonwealth Oil
Refineries, has been named Victorian
manager after having acted in that capa-
city for some time. Great War artillery-
men will remember him as gunnery
officer to the Ist Division. After the war
he was on a South African mining job
for several years before returning to
N.S.W. to enter the motor trade. He
joined the C.O.R. staff five years ago.
* * * *
McLachlan, the P.M.G., must give a
lot of time to inventing and beefing out
excuses for keeping the inland postage
rate at tuppence and the annual depart-
mental surplus round £3,000,000. His
latest was that the tuppenny rate and the
rest of his schedule of sky-high charges
were necessary to protect “about
£45,000,000 worth of postal assets which
a slight advance in wireless communi-
cation might render valueless.” Maoriland
and South Africa are in the same boat.
They have penny postage., and South
Africans are getting air-mail letters car-
ried to or from Britain for three-
ha’pence.
* * * *
Melbourne University has grabbed
H. J. M. Abraham as its senior demon-
strator in natural philosophy. While at
Victoria University College, Wellington
(M.L.), where he graduated M.Sc. in
January, he was an outstanding track
athlete and hockey-player; in 1935 he
was his college’s nominee for a Rhodes
scholarship.
* * * *
“T.N.Q.”: Touching this new “crisis”
in Palestine, apparently it has never oc-
curred to anyone that a threat to return
the country to the Turks would bring
wordy irreconcilables up with a round
turn. Without fee, I offer the suggestion.
Tell both sides that either they settle
down or else the mandate will be handed
over to Turkey, and make it clear that we
mean business. In less than a week the
Palestine crisis will have faded over the
horizon.
* * * *
London “Daily Telegraph” on the
addition of £2OO a year to members’
salaries: —
If £4OO a year was reasonable in 1911,
£6OO should be 'enough now, especially
as members do not pay income tax on the
full amount and receive first-class railway:
tickets between London and their con-
stituencies.
So that’s all they get in the way of perks!
Why, N.S.W. provincial members receive
£670, passes over all the Government
railways of Australia and Maoriland,
Sydney and Newcastle tram passes, and
Ministerial motor-car rides when they
say they have business to attend to.
Hi ❖ *
Owners of the Prince Edward in
Sydney, Carroll Musgrove Theatres con-
tinues to be one of the best profit-earners
among the listed picture-show invest-
ments—but it doesn’t necessarily mean
a great deal. Imperial Theatres, which
started the Liberty in Sydney, is prob-
ably the most profitable of the lot (it
has done very well indeed), but it isn’t
listed. Carroll Musgrove earned about
5 p.c. on capital last year, and paid 6 p.c.
on its participating prefs. Individual
management in the picture-show business
seems more conducive to success than
group control.
* * * *
Old politician W. G. Higgs, who sat
in both Commonwealth Houses and be-
came Treasurer, has written a pamphlet
to warn his countrymen against the
perils of pre-selection and legislation by
secret caucus—which, as he says, some-
times means legislation by minority. Of
pre-selection the veteran writes that it
keeps men of individuality out of Par-
liament and elevates hacks who do as
they are told. Sometimes the hacks get
into Ministries; then perhaps the secre-
tary of the department has to prepare their
speeches for them, and, since it is natural
for officials to abuse powers thrust on
them, there is a never-ending issue ofi
regulations. Higgs’s idea is that pre-
selection ballots and secret meetings of
members to discuss bills should be put
down by law.


vs®
.
da>
%
I!
“She had a marvellous new outfit,
complete—down to every matching
shoe and button. But you should
have seen the cases she packed it in!!
Antediluvian—out-dated —un-modern.
I stood and stared. So did everyone
else.”
FOR SMART LIGHT-WEIGHT
MATCHED LUGGAGE
ENSEMBLES
consult
ORO§. LIMITEDy
'Dravd (Department V
QUE.EN STR E. E. ~T •• • & R ISBAN E
ml
4 f*r.
•■s'
a z
LEARN.
"■from the Squirrel /
When nuts are plentiful (and nuts
are the riches of the squirrel
world), the wise animal eats what
he needs. But, little by little, he
builds up a store of food against
the lean future.
This plan has stood the test of
many thousands of years. So,
why not act in like manner ?
From your earnings, put aside
something however small
but REGULARLY. Put that
regular something where it will be
safe but always quickly available.
Let the growing fund earn a
steady profit for you in interest.
Start a Savings Account, at once,
and you’ll feel happier and
safer.
fd
COmiDOMLTN
No. 5 of a series of articles on Old Cricketers.
For the 1890 tour of England, Mur-
doch returned to Australian cricket alter
an absence of five years. In some quar-
ters he wasn’t made welcome, and one
critic described his initial essay with the
bat for N.S.W. v. Victoria as “a succes-
sion of bad strokes.” Another pointedly
remarked that he. would “never have
dared to go abroad with another Aus-
tralian eleven had his father-in-law,
Sandhurst Watson, lived.”
It was a time of acrid criticism of
Australian cricket and many of those
connected with it. “There are only two
real cricketers left in Australia,” roared
George Bonnor, now an 18-stone man,
in the members’ pavilion at the Sydney
Cricket Ground. “Who’s the other one,
George?” asked his companion, and
there was a gale of laughter at the
giant’s expense.
“The other one” was doubtless George
Giffen, at that time the greatest all-
rounder in the world. He was thus de-
scribed by Phillips, the Melbourne pro-
fessional, who used to umpire or play
in England during the English summer
and return to Australia to play or um-
pire when county cricket was over. As
in 1888, Giffen refused to go to England
with his former companions. A confi-
dant explained that “the jealousy and
bickering that went on in 1886 utterly
disgusted him. More than that, there is
a lady in the case. George meditates
marriage.”
Giffen had a great “press” that 1889-90
season, during which the South Austra-
lians visited Sydney for their first eleven-
a-side match with N.S.W. on the Sydney
Cricket Ground. The Croweaters were
lavishly entertained ; for one thing Syd-
ney Burdekin, the Mayor, put on a
champagne lunch for them at the Town
Hall.
The husband of the beautiful Mrs.
Sydney B. had invited Dan O’Connor,
the Postmaster-General, to be the
orator of the occasion, and Dan
made a memorable “spache.” In his
peroration, he eulogised “the pairless
jims of Australian pluck who have wan
W. G. GRACE and LORD SHEFFIELD.
eternal glory on the goreless cricket field
and in the calm repose of family loife.”
He went on to remark that “these
hayroes will be aloike wilkum wherever
they may go, from Cape Yor-rk to
Cape Otway, aloike in George-street,
Sydney, Bourke - street, Melbourne,
Quane-street, Brisbane, or-r” —here lie
paused for a moment and a sportive
newspaperman gave him the cue—“or-r in
Loight-square, Adelaide.” Daniel sat
down amidst thunders of applause. No
one spoilt the joke by telling him exactly
what sort of spot Loight-square, Adel-
aide, then was.
“While the selection and management
of Australian elevens are monopolised
by played-out cricketers with a view to
the gate,” a Bulletin man wrote, “it is
scarcely probable that a really repre-
sentative team can' be got to-
gether. This is the second time a
hotchpotch team has gone for the
‘ashes’ and the dollars.”
Sid Deane kept wickets for
N.S.W. that season. His selec-
tion was proposed and vetoed —
by Blackham, it was said. Pref-
erence was given to the Tas-
manian Kenny Burn, who, it
transpired when the voyagers
were on the water, had never
kept wickets in his life. Deane, a
member of a musical family, was
consoled by being given a job in
the Nellie Stewart opera company.
The hotchpotch team came back
with some dust, but without the
ashes. In the absence of Giffen
and Moses the batting was weak,
and in the bowling department,
though young Hugh Trumble had
got a place in the eleven, Turner
and Ferris had far too much to do.
Each had the wonderful bag of 215
wickets —Turner at 12.15 and Ferris at
13.43 —but Ferris, who was not strong,
paid for the experience and that of 1888
by losing his cunning altogether. This was
to be painfully revealed when, through
W. G. Grace’s influence, he got a job in
Gloucestershire and qualified for the
county. He failed as a bowler, but de-
veloped into a fairly good batsman.
Murdoch came off again. For the
fourth time as skipper of an Australian
team in England he made most runs
(1459) and had the best average (23.33),
a record which may never be excelled.
It was a great finish to a great Austra-
lian cricket career; for Murdoch, like
Ferris, went to England, playing for
Sussex as an amateur.
But it takes more than three men to
win matches, and that 1890 team lost
more (16) than it won (13), nine games
being drawn. Only two Test matches
were played, a Manchester fixture, being
washed out by rain: at Lord’s Murdoch s
team lost by seven wickets, and at the
Oval by two wickets.
The affair at Lord’s was a triumph
for Jack Lyons, who scored 55 (out ol
132) and 33 (out of 176) and took five
wickets for 30 in the Englishmen’s first
innings (173). At the Oval bowlers pre-
dominated, Martin getting six for 50 (out
of 92) and six for 52 (out of 102) for the
Englishmen, and Ferris 4-25 and 5-49
for the Australians. At Lord’s there were
30,729 “bob” patrons —attendances of
members were never counted in those
days —and the Australians’ share came
to £750.
J. E. Barrett, a Victorian medical stu-
dent, had been picked as a stonewaller
instead of Bannerman. When informed
of his selection the young man said “It’s
a cheap way of getting ‘home.’ 1 am
after my M.R.C.S., so you won’t see me
for a couple of years.” A sound left-
hander, he came second to Murdoch with
1305 runs at 22.51. He was back before
the end of the second year and his
cricket history was short.
It was grimly noticed in Australia that
this least successful of all touring teams
had the most favorable English press
notices. A sour critic wrote: “Previous
teams were moneygrabbers, professionals,
not even fit for the Gents of England to
lunch with. These fellows are fair
cherubim with the English papers. John
Bull always did like anybody he could
lick.
“Our Boys will be boys, apparently.
They’ve quarrelled among themselves as
usual, and we learn by cable that the
wiry Boyle has taken a severe fall out of
the burly Lyons. Speaking of boils,
Sammy Jones has undergone an opera-
tion at St. Thomas’s Hospital for an
abscess. Jones seems to visit England
solely for the purpose of picking up
every ailment that happens to be fashion-
able during his stay.”
An unfortunate sequence of newspaper
cablegrams was widely reproduced and
commented upon. A three-day match


HORRIFIED WHEN
SHE WAS WEIGHED
Took off 31 lbs. with
Kruschen
Why continue to be fat? Why continue
to be afraid to step on a weighing machine
for fear of what it may show? Once you
start on Kruschen, being weighed is no longer
an ordeal, but a pleasure. Read how one
woman is losing weight and gaining health by
taking Kruschen Salts:
“1 had become very fat (I am only 29),
depressed, and always had indigestion and palpi-
tation. At last I plucked up courage to have
myself weighed, and, to my horror, I was 13st.
lllbs. This was four months ago, and now I
am pleased to inform you that I am list. 81bs.
I have not dieted to any great extent, except
that I eat brown bread instead of white, and
have cut out potatoes and fried foods. Since I
purchased my first bottle of Kruschen Salts, I
have watched my weight decrease each week.”
—(Mrs.) J.R.W.
The six salts in Kruschen assist the internal
organs to throw off each day the wastage and
poisons that encumber the system. Then, little
by little, that ugly fat goes—slowly, yes, but
surely.
THE VERY LATEST
IN SADDLES.
■
THE
No. 167
TOOMA"
POLEY
SADDLE
£l3/10/-
(MOUNTED)
This is a new
Tum b a ”
design and is
undoubtedly a
fine production.
It is made of best
quality Kip Leather,
and every stitch is
hand sewn.
N.S.W. Freight Paid for Cash with
Order. Write for Saddlery Catalog
and List of Horse and Cow Rugs.
WALTHER & STEVENSON, LTD.,
3i>s GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
r
V 9»
3ft
04-
m
LB
i j i
m
m
• • #
,y\jeat
a
tluitst
Holy Trinity Church at Kelso, erected in
1825, was the first permanent church west of
the Blue Mountains of New South Wales.
It is a beautiful old church of mellowed grey
stone, with magnificent stained glass windows.
It is charmingly situated on a hill overlooking
the City of Bathurst.
The site of Bathurst was selected in 1815 on
the completion of the road over the Blue
Mountains. Most of the early settlers were
graziers, the district being only sparsely
populated until the discovery of gold in
1851. The Bathurst district now supports a
population of 27,000.
The Bank of New South Wales opened its
Bathurst branch in 1856 and has thus been
associated with the development of the
district for more than eighty years.
YM/Y
v €4V
ESTABLISHED 1817
k
Em
FIRST IN AUSTRALIA
278 F
If any illustration in THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
with the Lyric Club had been arranged
to begin on July 31.
London, August 1.
Last night the members of the Lyric
2“a banqS Aqslralian cricketers
London, August 2.
Last night Lord Londesborough enter-
tained the Australian cricketers at a ban-
London, August 3.
The Lyric Club defeated the Australian
cricketers by 96 runs.
The Bulletin was among the commen-
tators. “The Australian cricketer at
’home,’ batting the day after a banquet,
sees at least two balls approaching. One
is dead on the wicket. He smites at the
other and then sees four bails flying
about, two wicketkeepers looking the
other way, two prostrate and two erect
stumns Then he retiree ,
P ' wo P avdlons ,
“W.G.,” NETTLED.
makes 22 excuses, and another cable,
about bad luck and wet wickets is dis-
patched. The Australians always bat on
a wet wicket after a banquet.”
There was no English team in Aus-
tralia in 1889 or 1890, but Lord Shef-
field brought one out in 1891. It was
skippered by W. G. Grace, who was said
to have received £3OOO, plus expenses, his
lordship having no end of money and
being very generous with it.
“W.G.” was thus described: “He looks
no older than when he was here half a
generation ago, but he is a tremendous
lot fatter. He is a very big, powerful man
with a bristling black beard nearly to
his waist, somewhat slanting eyes, great
muscular arms and huge hands. And
what feet! He could get £2 a week
and tucker merely to walk about in the
grasshopper districts to kill off the pest.
He bats as well as ever, his eye being
as true and his arm as strong as in the
days of old ; but when it comes to bowl-
ing he is a bit off. He rolls up to the
crease with a lumbering action like a
Clydesdale colt, and delivers the ball
with a cunning spin ; but he is not a
danger to careful batsmen. He fields at
point, where he does not have to run,
and any ball within possible reach is
sure to find a resting place in one of his
vast carpet-baglike hands.”
And Lord Sheffield? “A little fat,
stumpy man, for all the world like an
English farmer of the old standard type.
Hair long and straggly; lips and face
roughly shaven, with a little fringe of
beard left under the chin ; eyes small
and cute. Thick-necked, heavy-jowled,
obstinate, good-natured and shrewd, his
lordship is just the sort of man that
would make a fine landlord for a bush
pub.”
Grace’s side was strong, though it
contained some, ageing professionals, but
it lost two of its three matches with
Combined Australia. They were the
only matches it did lose, and Australian
writers conceded that it could have made
a draw of the first tussle at Melbourne.
There had been a great deal of criti-
cism of the tedious batting of men like
Bannerman and Barrett, and attendances
had fallen away. It was known that Lord
Sheffield had asked his men to play
bright cricket, and they did their best to
oblige. So their Melbourne defeat
brought them more credit than censure.
This report of the last phase was
typical: “The match was limited to four
days, and the Englishmen went in on the
fourth day with 213 runs to make in 2\
hours. It was obvious that they might
have pottered through the afternoon with
a loss of not more than two or three
wickets, but they went in for slogging and
paid the penalty. All the same, their
superiority as showmen for the crowd
was pronounced. In 8 hours 20 minutes
of actual batting, they made only 54
fewer runs than the Australians made in
13 hours. After lunch
on the second day
they got 240; it
took the Australians
the whole of the first
day to get 191, and
all the afternoon of
the third day to get
119.”
The public signi-
fied its appreciation
in the usual fashion.
“Seventy-five thou-
sand people paid for
’ admission. There
has never been a
greater attendance at
a match, though the
highest daily total,
- 23,000, has been ex-
. ceeded in England.”
The first day’s tak-
t ings reached £lllO
and the second day’s
£1172.
In Sydney the
scores were: Aus-
tralia, 145 and 391
(Lyons 134); Eng-
land, 307 (Abel 132
not out) and 156. At
Adelaide England
made 499 (Stoddart
134); Australia, 100
and 169.
Grace played in
all three matches, his
scores being 50, 15,
26, 5 and 58. Count-
ing 11 - a - side
matches only, he
wound up the tour
with a total of 445,
avei aging 44.45 ;
well ahead of the
next man, Abel,
38.8.
Australia’s most
successful batsman
was Billy Bruce, then
in his prime. Not
as sound as Moses, but as stylish a left-
hander as the game has seen, Bruce
made 57, 40, 15, 72 and, on a wet wicket
at Adelaide, 5 and 37. On that moist
Adelaide wicket, Briggs took six for 49
and six for 87.
There was some betting on the Sydney
match. Jack Lyons, a bold punter,
backed himself at 20 to 1 in fifties to
make 200 in two innings. He failed by
17 runs. However, he had covered his
wager with another of £lOO to £lO that
he would beat Abel’s score of 132. Lord
Sheffield gave Abel £5O and presented
Lyons with a handsome trophy.
The Earl of Jersey, grandfather of the
young man who, divorced by his Austra-
lian wife, has just married a film actress,
had been criticised for inviting the ama-
teurs to Government House, Sydney, and
ignoring the professionals. The lily-
whites, it was said, stayed at the Aus-
tralia ; the professionals wiere left to
find board and lodgings where they
could. “W.G.” himself was the subject
of gossip. It was alleged that Lohmann
had said to him: “Not for a thousand
a week would I join another team cap-
tained by you,” and there was a story
that Stoddart and the Old Man had
come to blows in Adelaide.
In Sydney, so ran another yarn, one of
the Englishmen was served with a £5OO
writ for assault, a barmaid being at the
bottom of the rumpus; and Lord
Sheffield settled Vie affair for £9O. Lord
Sheffield was always “a fine old English
gentleman” to crowds and critics, as well
as the bands that played the air of that
name as soon as he began his pilgrimage
to the wicket before a match.
The Australians had troubles of their
own. A player who on English form
should have got a place in the Australian
eleven was omitted. The V.C.A., it was
explained, had decided that “his reason
for not playing for Victoria v. N.S.W.”
was “unsatisfactory,” and “he is not to
be selected any more this year.” The
reason was: “I went to bed ill on Tues-
day and did not get up till the following
Monday.” ®


“Qxmead”: A cabie mentions the like-
lihood of oil being found on the Duke
of Windsor’s Canadian ranch and specu-
lates on the possibility of the proprietor
getting into the millionaire class there-
by. As far as I know, the ex-King owns
no real estate in Australia, but a story
went the rounds in Perth of a local
M.L.A. who, in 1920, was no sooner
presented to the then Prince than he be-
gan to impress on the visitor that he
would increase his popularity by acquir-
ing a stake in this section of his future
dominions. The “stake” tendered, and
pressed with all the seductive arts of a
first-class salesman, was a sheep-station
—or a potential one —far out in the
Westralian outback, which, the loyal
subject of the Crown declared, he would
sooner sell to the Prince for half its
value than to anyone else for what it
was really worth. But even this mag-
nanimous offer evoked no response.
There are no sheep on that station yet.
“Buzfuz”: Touching color-blindness
(B. 21/7/’37). A Melbourne man re-
cently had reason to be glad of his dis-
ability ; it saved him a fine when he was
charged with walking against a red light
at a city intersection. The plea estab-
lished a precedent.
* * *
“Ex-teleg”: 1 agree that telegraphists
don’t glean much that may profit them
financially (B. 28 /7 / ’37), but occasion-
ally the job yields a grin. “Grandma,
91b. boy. Both very well” was well
worth the trouble of pounding it out.
“Would you kindly resign and return all
papers as soon as possible” sounded fair
of its kind. “Quid. Stiff” covered a lot
of ground by a jolty shortcut. I happen
to know that he got it, too! For a
change, a condensation of misery may
well call the silent tear to the eye of
sympathy. “Father dying. Will wire
again when dead” is a message that has
remained in my mind for 30 years.
“Feet”: Here’s another example of
road psychology. Sydney-bound, two lads
started on foot from Melbourne They
had learned somehow that few motorists
would pick up a pair of “travellers,
though plenty might give one a ride ;
accordingly, they agreed to foot it two or
three hundred yards apart. A little beyond
Essendon the second one went flying past
the first, and a hundred miles later was
himself similarly passed. A hurried wave
was their only method of communica-
tion till they kept an appointment at
Sydney G.P.0., four days “out.”
“El V.”: More even than the omnis-
cience which enables them to record the
private conversations and laundry lists
of kings, do I admire the ingenuity with
which the latest brands of Yankee-
British weeklies find friendly adjectives
to adorn the. Empire’s heroes. I read
consistently of “Snaggle-toothed Neville
Chamberlain” and “Gingery Stanley
Baldwin” ; now I notice that our own
Joe Lyons, on his arrival in London, was
“the chubby little chief of the Austra-
lian delegation.” Sheer good-fellowship
towards statesmen could go no further.
* * * *
“D.E.”: I gather from miscellaneous
reading in my country-town “school of
arts” (so-called because there isn’t a
painting or a bust in the place) that the
A. P. Herbert Divorce Act is vastly
admired by U.A.P. newspapers in N. S.
Wales. It makes lunacy one of the
grounds. Three or four years ago a
private member tried to get a lunacy
clause added to the N.S.W. Act; it was
fired out by a 4- to 5-to-l majority
imidst the applause of the same N.S.W.
japers which effusively praised Herbert’s
neasure. That enactment, by the way,
enables ladies as well as gents to get
decrees for adultery alone; previously
the skirted partner had to prove cruelty
or desertion as well as unfaithfulness.
She could also, of course, be divorced
by the “restitution” route. Mrs. Simp-
son was. Suppose Herbert had had his
bill passed a year ago, as obviously
might have been the case; and suppose
Mrs. Simpson had got her divorce on
the ground of adultery. In that event
the history of the past twelvemonth
might have been written very differently ;
certainly Edward would have had a
much stronger case for marrying his
Wally as King. For one thing he
could have pointed out that two bishops
of the Church of England worked and
voted for Herbert’s bill, and that the
Archbishop of Canterbury did not vote
against it.
* * * *
“Ente Marid”: In its issue of July 30
Melbourne “Argus” symbolised the
threatened aloofness of the Vic. Country
party from composite Ministries with a
cartoon in which the C.P. was represented
as a lady rebuffing the intruding Lyonses
with the words: “I want to be alone.”
That same day Theodore’s thunderer
in Sydney crystallised Federal Labor’s
determination to stay apart from over-
seas defence entanglements by depicting
Mr. Curtin as a very thin female using
the selfsame words as the “Argus’s” god-
dess. Theodore’s artist scored. The lis-
someness of his Curtin showed that he
.rightly attributed the scintillant quota-
“If that Was my child I'd keep it quiet!"
“Too right you would, spinster!"
tion to Garbo ; the curves of the Vic-
torian charmer indicated a false impres-
sion that the quoted words are an emana-
tion of Mae West.
$ ❖ 3*
“Billy See”: Is there any occupation
in Australia less remunerative than that
of the, story-writer? I received a letter
from an editor saying that he would
be pleased, etc. Sent along six, from
which he selected one of about 4000
words. One guinea came back ; the
bailiff being in the offing I took it and
said nothing. Later I found that the
guinea story was syndicated through the
Christmas issues of at least 10 country
papers. They got it, from my view-
point, at the cost of 2s. lid. apiece—a
decimal point over sixpence per 1000
words!
;j* 4: v
“Sakit Prut”: Probably the most
unique itinerant craft practised in Aus-
tralia is that of making artificial eyes on
a portable apparatus while the customer
waits. Fit, color and detail must, of
course, be perfect, and the technique in-
volved is extraordinarily skilled. One
naturalised Australian travels the con-
tinent each year, attending to the needs
of 6000 of Australia’s estimated 14,000
one-eyed individuals. Manufacture of
the special acid-proof glass which gives
the best results is a close German
monopoly, centred in one town, and no
trained artificial eye-maker is now
allowed to leave the country. On an
average a glass eye lasts from 12 to 18
months, but the life of some extends to
14 years or longer, largely according to
the care that is taken by the wearer. So
delicately are they fitted that a really
good job moves in unison with the sound
eye, and is practically undetectable.
“Tracer”: The symposium in. recent
Bulletins on the endurance of signs of
cultivation long after it has been aban-
doned reminds me that when the air sur-
vey of England was started some years
ago the photographers were amazed to
find strongly-marked signs of forgotten
cities and fortifications whose existence
had never been suspected. In one of his
verses Kipling mentions the ease with
which the lines of the very ancient town
and fortification sites of the early in-
habitants of Britain, peoples long ante-
dating Roman and Dane, can be traced
on his beloved Sussex Downs after rain.
* # *
“E.V.”: Winston Churchill has
achieved new fame in the Commons by
asking a question 340 words long.
Speaker allowed it because it was “very
important.” Churchill need not waste
time trying to get his “record” recognised
in Australia. Harry Gullett in the last
session at Canberra managed an inter-
rogation of 514 words.
“EG.”: “Ekstra Bladet,” the principal
evening paper in Copenhagen, June 24,
1937, reproduces The Bulletin’s former
“Business, Robbery, Etc.” heading, with
the three chaps discussing something at
the board table, and comments:
Australian journalism appears to have a
distinctive stamp'all its own. I received
a serious shock this morning when I looked
at the financial page of the weekly: the
Sydney Bulletin. As a rule when-you
turn the leaves of that kind of special copy
which predominates in the “Wall-street
Journal” or “Borsen” [Copenhagen finan-
cial daily], it is the financial news that
stands out, but in this case the headings
catch your eye, such as the above:
“Business, Robbery, Etc.” And what do
you think of the sketch; the three lads,
who, judging from their facial expressions,
do not belong to the best-behaved chil-
dren?
They certainly do not seem to be cast down
in any way in Australia, but are not native
Australians skating on rather thin ice,
as it were, to introduce a sober business
and financial page in this manner, even
with obvious humorous intent? Involun-
tarily, one cannot help thinking of the
category to which the first white “settlers”
belonged. But perhaps “robbery” means
something different in Australia from what
it does in the rest of the English-speaking
world. *
Or, again, perhaps all business dealings
in Copenhagen are as Caesar’s wife.
* * * *
“Dhlorah”: Have you closed down on
Larry Foley yarns? When the old
fighter had the contractor’s job got for
him by his friend E. W. O’Sullivan, he
saw a carter coming up a ramp with
about half a load on. The horse jibbed.
“Let me see now,” said Larry; “let me
see. I have it —go back, lad, and fill y’r
dray.” The dray filled, Dobbin pulled it
up the ramp without any hesitation.
“Ah,” said Larry; “the horse is honest.
I’ll kape him on.”
* * V *
“Salmon Gums”; Can’t sympathise
with the habitues of gambling dens
where, in police raids, chemin de fer
boards and the like can’t be concealed.
What’s wrong with the Australian
national game? A couple of coppers will
see you safely rid of all your cash. It s
fair —which is why it doesn’t appeal to
the professional gambler—you’re not
bound down to any stake, and you re
reasonably safe from interference. The
cops raided our two-up school in Perth
every other night for weeks, and found
fifty-odd men earnestly watching two
boxers leathering each other over a thick
carpet.
“K.S.”: Winthrop Hackett was not
the only Australian editor to flaunt his
honorary doctorate (B. 28/7/’37). Ward,
of the old Sydney “D.T.,” and Cunning-
ham, of the “Argus,” clung to the dis-
tinction. Geelong Grammar School once
had an assistant master who was a
London D.Lit., while the head was a
mere M.A. That was altered when the
late Archgaiters Clarke obtained a Lam-
beth D.D. for the headmaster.
“Hook”: Scorfield’s cartoon of the
chap who fell into the dry dock (B.
28/7/’37) reminds me. Working over
the side when in dry dock is about the
only duty a naval seaman can refuse —
and get away with it. Regulations are
firm on one point, however. Any man
over the side in such circumstances must
have a bowline round his waist and an-
other man tending him from inboard.
“Omiha” : If “Sandy” (B. 28 /7 / ’37) is
looking for something to make his Cale-
donian blood boil, he should visit a
flesh-and-blood show now doing a season
in Melbourne. ’ Accompanied by syn-
thetic pipe music from a Sassenach
orchestra, the lassies do their turn clad
in the reg u 1 a tion
Royal Stewart regalia
—down to their knees.
The insult to Scot-
land lies in the fact
that their legs are en-
cased in “sheer” silk
stockings !
“Uramao”: If some
of the dusty shelves
of small-town book-
shops could be upset
they would probably
disclose finds to de-
light bibliomaniacs.
A M.L. book-col-
lector, after seeking
high and low in his
own country unsuc-
cessfully, commis-
sioned a London firm
to try to procure a
book he was anxious
to add to his collec-
tion —Havelock Ellis’s
Kanga Creek, em-
bodying the author's
experience in Aus-
tralia. The London
firm failed to find a
copy of it, but re-
cently, rummaging
over the shelves of a
bookshop in Nelson,
the. collector came on
what he wanted and
got it for a few shil-
lings.
“Hugo”: Championship of Reynard’s
courage by “Stralia” (B. 28/7/”37) beais
out the tale told in another quarter of
the globe by a stuffed fox, with a stuffed
foxhound, throat badly torn, lying dead
at his feet. The group graces the dining-
room of the Red Lion at Appledore.
Kent, and has been in situ for over halt
a century. Landlord Will’m Noakes
assured me that the group was no fake,
“or it wouldn’t be here —no, not for a
moment, zurr.” Hound belonged to the
dog pack of a long-defunct West Kent
hunt; and the tragedy was staged near
TenteHen.
* * *
“Poissar”: Where did “Ike Hollar” (B.
28/7/’37) spend his young days when
girls didn’t or wouldn’t roister with their
boy friends? Forty years ago, in my
experience, there were plenty of oyster
saloons featuring “Ladies’ Rooms” ; late-
supper joints, too, where Jack and Jill,
in pairs or parties, bogged into pies or
fried fish or eggs and bacon. I don t
suggest that many of them stayed after
last tram- or train-time, but quite a
sprinkling of girls contributed to the toi-
tunes made by the Krakotopotuloses an
of the period.
jjj sjs *•'
“Hanko”: That blackberries were
allowed to go to waste by the thrifty
peasants of Northern France surprise;.!
us Diggers, and from inquiries we
gathered that the berries were credited
with causing some obscure fever or other.
But, according to gossiping world-
traveller J- H. Curie, there is a religious
significance —the tradition that c
bramble formed the Redeemer s crown
of thorns, a version that I had never
heard put forward in France.
THE RIGHT SPIRIT.
“Aitch: Must give this a run:—
I take
You weekly: most for “Answers’ ” sake,
And some few other features.
We’ve disagreed; but that will make
No odds: I’ll get as fair a break
As you give other creatures.
“J.H.: They all fell short. But we like your
typewriter.”— Answers to Cwr. (I>. il).
Be comforted, my Muse. For you and I,
Though once again we’ve had a fruitless ny,
Are making progress ... we have earned a
Our versified P.S. has dodged the ditch.
Yet let us not build castles in the air, ~
Nor kid ourselves that we are nearly theie.
Our modest stanza blooms; but oh, alas,
’Tis where the many get the coup de grace.
“They all fell short,” J.H. is tersely told
Yet he should feel to some extent consoled:
They don’t quote him —and should he not be
glad? . . , ,
“We like your typewriter is not too oaa.
And so, my Multiplex, thou shar’st with us—
My Muse and me —what might have been much
‘ < wuss ,, !
No blame for the disaster lies with thee:
The onus falls on us —but most on me .
TASMANIA.
JAY AIICH.


~Jkis masterpiece is Perfection
the spirit he always serves.
\\
J
i > i
55$
m
c&
£
u
02
S -
55:
«'S<
i
2?S
::■*
(I GxUuro’s
X JA/sAyJs-
-7
“■
[|*V
(IFCdUums
feAA&s
Scots (tibisky
-fr<
( r«va*«» >K») «*•%•.
V'fcf
MM
Am
DISTRIBUTORS FOR THE HOUSE OF
MORT & CO., LTD., Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane.
LIONEL SAMPSON & SON, Fremantle.
McCALLUM:
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Adelaide.
MACFARLANE BROS. & CO., Hobart.
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK'S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
fd
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- {plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
v> //y-^
, -a -*o
h»" .\
V '
*%
S'W
S .
o*'
/U v *ol .cH t tO
„?*• o° a x
A s °
tf. b»V^-^ 6 <i %*■ . >
,**v* #'
r’■&<.&
*
0<
# ss
.• • .i\ v> c V;
.•■ , s c V<^ v 0
se C c '
\o


VM 0 R L
DISTILLERIES in
L
ENGLAND CANADA
AMERICA AUSTRALIA
niSTILIEHV
\U\VER PRICES
V>* vu
The public appreciation of the re-
duction in the price of GIL BEY’S
GIN by the bottle and by the
nobbier has greatly exceeded all
expectations ... We would like
the public to know that, although
the price has been reduced
throughout Australia, the same
process and materials are being
used in the manufacture of
this famous gin as have been
employed for over seventy years...
Owing to its distinctive flavour
and quality it still takes less
Gilbey’s to make more cocktails.
LTD.
THE LARGEST WINE & SPIRIT
MERCHANTS IN THE WORLD.
® The efficiency of our great new Austra-
lian Distillery brings lower prices to you
though lower manufacturing costs to us . . .
The famous GILBEY’S now costs no more
than ordinary gins.
l a ° p t Z l^
lt G,L &iy
i
iw/xm^L
to> * "
& aUBUTV
''4 $&/
Hi | 1 * - fj
I.' w ■ -.-M.• - St . ~- ’i;|' .
: : i :5 :•>«■:: ■
■
■
%
J®
Ca s ,
JWv' ' "V '* > <&&&$
. .t:: .. ~ .. . -..
... .. . .
■
■ ,
II
ii
5.1
Hiß
m
.
m
m
m
g
¥
I
e&8« lie
a
:F: (
kM;
' ■ :
'a,-.
Don’t sa
GILBEYS
