

3*
si
: 1 ■
m
m
m
m
m
m
m
mm
f.
mm
m
■
m
i'|:W
WtATJW
•■-.V
Wm
*rs
resi
m
[
jiuithalitut
f fahmah&...
WARATAH
FENCING PRODUCTS
RLL RU5TRRLIRN
Insist an having
WARATAH
WIRE NETTING
RUNS OUT STRAIGHT AND FLAT
WARATAH
BARBED WIRE
FOR STRENGTH AND DURABILITY •
WARATAH
5TEEL FENCING WIRE
BLACK OR GALVANIZED
'WARATAH
STAR’ STEEL FENCING POSTS
LIGHT AND 5TROND
'WARATAH
MOTOR BY-PASS
THE EVEK-OPEN DATE
'WARATAH' HINGED-JOINT FENCE
HU MJ5TRMJI1N PRODUCTS
Ttlude front
\\ —i ■ ■ warn //
BH.P.
■ fl Ebb ■
EWCA5TLE STEEL
■
50LD BY ALL LEADING STOREKEEPERS
AN INVITATION 15 EXTENDED TO CU5TOMER5
TO VI5IT OUR WORKS AT NEWCASTLE •
:
wmt
ifflJRYlAKDS
jmmvmm
fcgtn-ri
mm
sir®i
xJm
LRND 1 . BROVmAi
r ««kWHUm , y Vm
WARAW
RYLDNDS BROS, mum PTY. LTD.
WORKS : NEWCASTLE, N.5.W.
ucnn nccirc *
L 422 LITTLE COLLINS STREET,
i MELBOURNE
The Bulletin
Vol. 58.—N0. 3015.
Wednesday, November 24, 1937.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


DYMOCK’S new library catalogue
FOR 1937
is now ready and will be forwarded post free with
terms and particulars on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
“The Block,” 424-426 George Street, Sydney.
The Red Page
WILLIAM MOORE.
William Moore’s Story of Australian Art must
almost necessarily remain the basic reference for all
researches into Australian art history. It needed all
Moore’s special talents to bring this book to a happy
issue. A sheaf of letters in my possession, written
over years, tell the patient and elongated story of
The Story, which was “finished in the depths of the
depression, when art was dead.”
To the assembly of this remarkable one-man
encyclopaedia, William Moore brought his particular
qualities of invincible optimism, persistence, perennial
enthusiasm for any new upshoot of artistic effort.
He was an indefatigable and inspiring correspondent,
keeping in touch with critics, artists and others in
every corner of the continent, giving great draughts
of news as well as asking for it.
All the information, laboriously yet blithely
acquired from these multitudinous odd sources during
many years, went to the making of his opus, as well
as to his facty journalism. “Unless I could do
the critical part well,” he wrote to me concerning his
Story, “I felt I had better leave it to someone more
worthy.... Lambert used to call me the official
recorder, and I have stuck to that.”
His enthusiasm for Australian drama was con-
sistent and valuable over 30 years. The effort that
began with his Drama Nights in 1909 reached a
rounded conclusion in 1937 with the co-editing of
Best Australian One-Act Plays. Even here his intel-
lectual sail was set towards the future, instead of
idling in and romanticising the past. He saw the
possibilities of new form in the radio play, and gave
it recognition in his selection of works.
He delighted in his own triumphs, but was at
least equally excited by those of others. Many might
testify to his almost saintly simplicity and generosity
of spirit. But, apart from general encouragement,
he made endless practical and disinterested sugges-
tions for new enterprises. Typical was the last of
all, Jor an official exhibition of Westralian art, 1826-
1937. This has recently been held in Perth, the
catalogue being dedicated to him.
William Moore dramatised cultural progress
about him with a boyish animation and honesty. He
had an unwavering love for his native Australian soil.
His characteristic and iterated faith was: “Australia
lacks this, that and the other, but that means there
is much to create. The spadework is done, and the
future developments of the arts will be rapid.”
LESLIE REES.
THE NEW IDRIESS.
Through the writing of 12 books, in which his
narrative freshness has remained unflagging, lon L.
Idriess has slowly shifted his viewpoint. He has
developed in himself. His romantic outlook, which,
combined with his intimate knowledge of wild Aus-
tralia, has given pleasure to an army of readers and
added fresh pages to the Australian picture-book, is
unaltered, but it has gradually been conditioned by an
increasing social awareness and a more serious regard
for his own talent.
His early work indicated an apparent belief that
romanticism was a sufficient end in itself, that a
relationship to the realities was of less importance than
the exigencies of story-telling.
Lasseter’s Last Ride, for instance—his first popular
success, and an immature effort compared with his latest
book —gives pictures of aboriginal camp and hunting
life that are obviously living transcripts, and of great
value in our record of a vanishing race, side by side
with imaginative descriptions of tribal ceremonies
that are, to say the least, of minor interest. In Men
of the Jungle —one of his freshest efforts—in which
he laid open to view life in a magnificent littoral,
Australia’s tropic treasure house, he heightened his
effects by telescoping historic decades.
This tendency to force reality into line with the
romantic vision is abandoned in his later work,
arguing an increasing faith in the intrinsic value of
his material and a more serious view of his function
as recorder of Australian life.
His new book, Over the Range (Angus and
Robertson), tells the story of a police patrol which
Idriess accompanied through several hundred miles of
the Kimberley hinterland, the title indicating mainly
the country north-east of the King Leopold Ranges,
mountains rarely crossed by white men and never
yet by a white woman. It comprises incidents of the
track ; pictures of life at lonely homesteads ; “talking”
portraits of white and black people he met; their
stories of their own exploits and of others who paid
with their lives the price of being civilisation’s fore-
runners ; stories of tribal warfare and of individual
rivalries between black men ; accounts of life among
the natives as observed by him while with the patrol,
and descriptions of the country traversed so quickly
and clearly presented that the reader seems to be
riding beside him.
It equals in vividness and interest anything Idriess
has written. Beside the power to make every incident
live in the telling he has the gift of always being
able to uncover the vein of human interest.
Recurrent in the book is the writer’s concern for
two things ; the country itself and its inhabitants.
This is the latter-day Idriess —of a piece with his occa-
sional press contributions on soil erosion, deforesta-
tion and the vanishing blacks. Everywhere he found
evidence that the blacks were dying out, even where
they were not in contact with white men. He reiter-
ates a variant on what he says in his foreword: “If
we really do mean to save the last of the Stone Age
men we must race Time.”
Of the land he says in effect that as population
grows the axe must be spared, that it is beautiful but
it won’t stand rough handling. This pieces in with a
lot we have learned of parts of the continent we
occupy in numbers. It is a contribution to the art of
living in our own country.
MOLLISON LETS HIMSELF GO.
To form an idea in advance of Jim Mollison’s
Playboy of the Air (Joseph, Ltd.), think of its author
as on a literary drunk. He himself won’t mind ; he
relates his all-in drinking bursts (as well as his sex
affairs) in detail, and he is so regardless of the feelings
of anybody that he’d look comic posing as having
sensitive personal feelings himself.
He swills, shouts, flies, fondles and tells through
15 years or so of stunt life. He writes, apparently,
with the brakes right off, dealing as ruthlessly with
those he admires as with those he detests. Keep in
mind that in his flying life between 1931 and 1936 he
flew as a stunting breaker of hazardous records, darling
of the hero-worship hysteria of hundreds of thousands,
with women chasing him, sensation-newspaper editors
and others waiting on him with big cheques, and all
this and much more in reward for his periodically
putting his life at fearful risk. Add that there can be
few things in heaven or earth sacred to his philosophy,
and a fair idea should be had of the kind of auto-
biography he has written.
Yet, leaving morality and ethics out of the ques-
tion, it is a vivid and vital book. Many fliers, these
latter-day adventurers —indeed most of them—have
written books. Some of them —like P. G. Taylor.in
that book of fine heroism, Pacific Flight —have written
splendidly of flying. But from none of them—and
from not many of the heroic adventurers of history
whose modern counterparts they are —have we had a
book so vibrant with life as this one of Mollison’s.
It is life crude and violent if you like ; but, still, it is
life.
Another thing, only the scandalous side of it, of
course —his harsh exposure of his married life with
Amy Johnson, especially—has been aired in press
notoriety given to the book. There is a great deal of
worth in it beside that. Without being more than
a crude descriptive writer, he conveys very telling
pictures of his great flights ; how he flew the Atlantic
in a dress-suit was told at the time by sensation
journalism ; he kept to himself to tell how he flew the
same ocean as naked in the hot sun as a god, save
for a topee. Also, Mollison heartily debunks stunt
flying.
He gives, too, first-rate picturing of prominent
and other people, from Edward VIII. to Jack Lang.
Edward, he says, “will remain always as an impressive
memory in my life; there are few people I admire
as I do him.” He is equally laudatory of George V.
and his Queen, quoting regarding her the Hollywood
producer who said, as a genuine tribute: “We would
have to search the world to find anyone more fitting
in dignity and appearance to play the role of Queen.”
Lang, an item of Mollison’s interesting Australian
adventure* he dubs as one who “looked tough, was
tough” and talked “rank cock and bull.” Mollison
says he interrupted one of Lang’s meetings with a
harangue of his own, until a brick hurtled by. Then:
“With that gesture I left the stage of Australian politics.
Lang would have done well to follow my lead.”
Of Smithy: “He was a lion-hearted little man
who stood out among everyone I knew or met in
Australia. Him I admired for his courage and his
proficiency. Only one pilot was anything like Smithy,
and that was one-eyed Wiley Post. Without question
or comment [“Smithy”] knew more about flying than
I shall in ten years’ time. He flew better than any
man in the world.”
NEW FICTION .
The inferences of The World Ends, by William
Lamb (Dent), may not have the same novel impres-
siveness for readers as they presumably had for the
writer, but the book has its points.
Blake, a successful novelist and a neurotic, is
visiting the moors in the north of England. One
night the earth is shaken by a cataclysm. When day-
light comes he finds himself on a small island, all
that is left—he conjectures from the subsequent
absence of searching ’planes—of the western world.
Its only other inhabitants are a farmer and his family.
He goes to live with them, and discovers his personal
inadequacy.
Hutton, the farmer, too unimaginative to grasp
what has happened, carries on, still moved by the
momentum of the past. To subdue and husband the
soil is his only thought. He is magnificent in this,
but a brute in the way he harnesses others to his will.
He enjoys his physical superiority to Blake; forces
him to field labor, finds him more trouble than he
is worth, then insultingly ignores him.
Blake becomes an odd-job man, pitifully glad to
help where he can. For a while he treasures the lost
world, writing remembered lines from its literature
with homemade ink on hoarded scraps of paper ; then,
as the years pass—and he searches the sky less fre-
quently for ’planes—he disintegrates. The past comes
less often to mind. It takes on the unreality of a
dream. In the end he no longer wants it back.
The World Ends is another of those English books
that postulate disaster. Its tale is well told. There is
strength as well as allegorical significance in the
characterisation, logic in the development, and the
descriptions of moor and farm are extraordinarily
good.
The Mother of Claudine, by Colette (T. Warner
Laurie), translated from the French by Charles King,
is a medley of childhood memories shaken out of the
past and allowed to fall as they list.
Outwardly most of the book has to do with
Claudine, her brothers, her sister, the neighbors and
the neighbors’ children, but out of the jumble of
trifles and episodes the portrait of Madame Colette,
the mother, slowly emerges.
Each chapter is complete in itself and has little
time relation to what went before or follows after. It
may be the description of an everyday event—-a visit
to the butcher’s, a child’s game, a moth in the linen
cupboard—or it may be a novel in little the story
of Juliette’s wedding, of Madame Saint-Alban, of the
Bouilloux girl.
Sudden swoops from past to present give the book
its perspective and lend to its episodes the tender,
rarefied air of events long past and irrecoverably lost.
There is art in its artlessness, but there is much more
than that; there is the sap of life in it.
Colette is so completely the Frenchwoman and
so exact and sensitive an artist that there is always
the feeling that what she has said can never be com-
pletely fitted into a foreign language. The salient
quality of the work has come through, however, and
the beauty of the prose been preserved.
The title of Stephen Graham’s African Tragedy
(Rich and Cowan), need be taken neither as a threat
nor a promise. It is the misleading label of a picar-
esque yarn.
Tom Anderson is in military clink when the
Armistice is signed. In the general hilarity he escapes
and boards an American transport at Southampton.
A group of “Southern gentlemen” adopt him, hide him
and initiate him into the Ku-Klux-Klan. Later, while
taking part in a lynching, he beats up a sheriff who
was only pretending to resist the mob. This leads to
Tom’s departure for New Orleans, where he becomes
a light in the smuggling business till he casually
appropriates a “rum baron’s cutie.”
Next to Trinidad, where he manages a cocoa
plantation and allows a dark beauty to love him. On
to Africa, where he tries mining in Jo’burg and then
buys blindfold a “farm” on the river Hlota, where his
farming consists mostly of shooting for the pot.
There is a streak of innocence in his knavery. He
parades the wilds with a donkey, a sitting hen and a
native companion, adapting himself to any company
from missionaries to a drunken trader. On a visit to
Scotland he meets Lady Charters, who has a fancy
for imitating Lady Chatterly—with a difference. She
takes up this “noble savage,” sends him back to
Africa to buy her a farm, visits him by aeroplane,
builds a fantastic house in the jungle and fills it with
costly and sophisticated furniture. Their idyll spent,
she flies home and leaves Tom disconsolate. Further
trouble sets in for him. The natives rob him, the
water supply gives out, insects devour the house, and
one day in a storm it falls down, crushing him and
his pets, a snake, a crocodile and a wild cat.
Such is the African Tragedy. We will hear next
that the squashing of a cockroach is tragedy. The
local color, which is plentiful and good, will appeal
to many, the touch of fantasy to the humor of others.
BROWSING AT LARGE.
From Angus and Robertson their Australian
edition of Poems in Praise of Practically Nothing, by
Samuel Hoffenstein, a curious string of jingle that has
already been through no less than 19 printings in the
U.S.A. Mr. Hoffenstein is a super-pessimist, with
trimmings. He takes life lying down laughing fit to
kill himself —but, still, lying down. His retort while
life and all its works roll over him is mockery. He
lays rough hands particularly on the ladies; which
may, in part, account for the 19 printings, the U.S.A.,
to judge from film, fiction and other representation,
being notoriously a place where women wear the
trousers. His personal scathing comments, plus the
19 printings, may represent revolt. The verse is often
boisterously funny. The book, in its author’s attitude
to life, makes an odd contrast against Australian
Kenneth Mackenzie’s Our Earth. Both make a bid to
encompass our earth and life; the Australian faces it
with his eyes open, but full of youth and courage;
the American, with his eyes opened, runs away from
it full of sophistication and loud ha-ha’s. Mr. Hoffen-
stein is hereby handed over to “Roundabout” to
examine at further length.
John Steinbeck’s Of Mice and Men (Heinemann)
must get a note here to say it’s now available in Aus-
tralia, it having been Red Paged from an advance
copy some months back. A study of a couple of
Californian harvest hoboes, it’s one of the best things
out of America for years and has already been trans-
lated into seven languages.
A few worth a mention if on no other account
than that each of them has a dash of humor: Rotton
Borough, by Julian Pine (Ivor Nicholson and Watson),
has more than a dash. There’s a substratum of
pessimism to its fun, but mainly it’s an explosion of
mirth over reformers who set out to clean the town
of Rotton Borough of graft, hypocrisy and corruption.
Though they leave it pretty much as they found it,
the attempt’s amusing while it’s on Silk Purse,
by Jerrard Tickell (Heinemann), sees Jacky Collins,
Hartlepool guttersnipe, through his gradual change into
John Sinclair Collins, B.A. (Oxon.), business head,
potential arms racketeer and happy lover... .Kenneth
Allott and Stephen Tait carry off a fair satirical
extravaganza in The Rhubarb Tree (Cresset Press),
main matters in which are Sykes, who earns £2 10s.
a week, getting shut up in an institution for the very
rich; Felix writing a miracle play but renouncing
success to wash dishes and sing hymns; Lady Sybil
Tatham, society Communist, undergoing a change of
mind and writing her “Life of Lenin” into a “Life of
Hitler”... .In the essays of Let Your Mind Alone, by
James Thurber (Hamilton), books of the “develop your
personality” school are facetiously debunked.


‘‘TRUTH IN ADVERTISING” — Always. “THE SENIOR STORE”
Famous Low Prices
Bath Powder —Dubarry*s (London)
Bath Dusting Powder in a large
assortment of delightful perfumes.
Packed in Black and Gold box with
floral design on lid. At Anthony
Horderns’ 6/3
"——
m
jMmy
1 tt* tMv
n/v
Dent s Fabric Gloves—Gloves are always an accept-
able Gift, and you’ll delight her with a pair of Dent's
Simplex Fabric. Slipon style, with elastic at wrist.
White or Light Grey. Sizes, 6to 7J. Price . . 2/11
Special Price 2/3
■ ••
Art. Silk Gloves—An inexpensive gift,
but something she will use all summer.
Art. Silk Gloves in a smart slipon style, with elastic
at Wrist. White with Black. Sizes, 6 to 7.
Price ........ 3/11. Special Price 2/3
Art. Silk Gloves —Another very smart Glove for
Christmas-gift' giving. It is of Art. Silk in a dainty
slipon style. White with Black cuff is most effective.
Sizes, 6| to I\, Price . . 2/11
Special Price ........................... 2/3
Gardenia Toilet Soap—She’ll be
delighted to receive such a lovely
gift. Bronnley’s (London)
Gardenia Toilet Soap, fragrantly
perfumed. Three Tablets in a
striking Black-and-white box.
At Anthony Horderns’ .... 5/-
Yardley s Bath Soap—*A good, pur®
Soap to lather freely. Yardley's Old
English Lavender Bath Soap. Three
largo tablets in box. At Anthony
Horderns’ . . 7/5
Toilet size, large cakes. Price, box, 4/-.
Medium cakes. Price, box .... 2/-
Gardenia Talcum Powder
—Delightfully refreshing!
Bronnley’s (London) Gar-
denia Talcum Powder in
beautiful Black Glass Bottle
with metal top. At Anthony
Horderns' 3/f I
VS
ppo
2d w
00
o°o
»«C 5
OXO
a#
boo,
:*»»« « •VV
iiV.l
PC
ft*
«L®
P>fO
• *
oo
Pr^Oo
«M*V
• «
oo
V*«»aa »:
oc
r« • ft * a *J
?*•»•••#
b:{d
B«.Vm
*Y;:J
(«,d
v*
n
Broderie Anglais© Jabot —She
such a gift most acceptable,
worn with many frocks, too.
Anglaise Jabot in Chalk
At Anthony Horderns* .. . .
will find
Can be
Broderie
White.
. .. 4/6
&
Ns
Box Linen Hankies—Pure Irish Linen
Handkerchiefs daintily embroidered in
corner and finished with narrow hem.
Half a dozen packed in gift box
At Anthony Horderns’ 7/1 I
X
m
c
r*i c
Ideal Gift for Men—A gift for a man! Yardley's
Old English Lavender Gift Set, containing Shaving
Soap Bowl, After Shave Talcum Powder and
solidified Brilliantine. At Anthony Horderns’, 9/6
O Perfumery—New Ground Floor, Pitt Street Free Delivery
City and Suburbs only.
Smart Necklace—Ultra smart! Gold Metal Necklace.
This one is typical of our many styles A gift she will
be delighted to receive, because it"s so unusual.
At Anthony Horderns’ 15/6
Irish Linen Hankies—Always acceptable. Sheer Linen
Handkerchief, with dainty cream net lace surround.
At Anthony Horderns’, each 2/6
Other designs 1/1 I and 2/3
• Handkerchiefs and Neckwear—New Ground Floor, Pitt Street. Freight
paid to all railway stations in N.S IV. and seaports in the Commonwealth.
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
SYDNEY
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C, G.P.O.


Early-day Tasmania
The DISGUISE
BY WILL LAWSON
ILLUSTRATED BY SUCH.
ON an evening in the summer of 1849 a girl was
strolling slowly along Colville-street in Hobart
Town. On one hand she could see the belfry
tower of St. George’s Church, standing on
Battery Hill; on the other, the broad sweep of Derwent
River, flowing nobly to the sea. And she could hear
the thudding of the mallets and the ringing blows of
the hammers of the shipbuilders on the waterfront,
building the bluegum clippers for Hobart’s trade.
Looking back, she saw in the distance a man
who walked quickly as if to overtake someone. She
knew his lithe, figure and she loitered on, never look-
ing round till he overtook her and spoke. “Good
evening, Miss Frances! ”
“Oh!” She simulated surprise, and the brown
eyes under her wide white hat smiled into his. “Good
afternoon, William! ”
He set his steps to her sauntering, happy to be
with her.
“I hear you are leaving us soon,” she went on.
“Yes. The Flying Childers sails in a week —on
Christmas Eve —for the Middle Sperm Grounds.”
“You are going whaling. How long will you be
away?”
“It depends on our success. Maybe a year—even
eighteen months.”
“There’ll be sad hearts when she sails,” Frances
Landen said.
He did not reply. His eyes were regarding her
quietly, noting her brown hair and steady grey eyes.
In her white muslin she was tall and straight and
lovely to look at.
“There’ll be glad hearts when we return,” he said.
Then, on an impulse, “Will yours be sad?”
She shook her head. “No. Will yours?”
He laughed, his real feelings controlled. “No.
I’m too excited to be going in her. And we’ll come
back.”
Frances had stopped her slow pacing and now
stood looking up at the church belfry. Abruptly she
said “There’s a man in that belfry.”
“A bellringer you mean. They’ll soon ring the
evening bells.”
“No, higher up right up among the bells —•
there’s a convict hiding.”
He was startled. “How do you know? How
did he get there?”
“I sent him there. He’s very young—just a boy.”
“You mean you are hiding a convict?”
“Yes.” She turned and looked into his eyes.
“And I want you to help me to get him away—in the
Flying Childers.”
“What was his crime?” he asked.
“Nothing, really. He was transported for being
impudent to his squire, a pompous man who testified
that he was a ne’er-do-well. But he is good and
gentle. He has a good record.”
“Maybe, but the System makes them all bad —•
every one of them. How came you to know him and
want to help him?”
“I saw him in the chain gang passing the church
one evening. He looked so young and clean among
those awful men, and a warder with a horrible face
walked alongside him. I smiled when he looked at
me ; the warder smirked evilly, as if I had smiled at
him. I did not smile any more, though I often saw
him pass.”
“But you’ve spoken to him?”
“Yes. One Sunday he was in the gang of con-
victs who were marched to church and seated in the
loft, high above everything, where they could not be
seen or see anything themselves. I wrote a message
on a leaf on my prayer-book during the sermon:
‘Get free and go to the belfry. I will unlock the
door.’ ”
“But surely the warders would see you give it to
him —and your people too?”
“No. I left my sunshade in the pew ; then I
ran back to get it just as they were trooping down
from the loft. As I left the church he came out from
the narrow stairway; we were abreast in the aisle for
an instant ere he stepped back to make way for me.
I pressed the note into his hand and ran out. Nobody
saw me do it.
“Then yesterday I found him there asleep, with
the sunlight through the louvres shining on his face.”
McKinnon did not speak.
“He is safe so far,” she went on, “but I fear he
may be discovered if anyone goes up to look to the
bells ; or the din of their ringing may turn his head
and drive him out.”
“What is his name?”
“James Dawson.. His age is nineteen.”
McKinnon’s thoughts were not happy. “I’ll do
it,” he said at last, “for your sake. To-night, after
the curfew rings to send the ticket-of-leave men to
their homes, meet me here. I’ll bring clothes for
him.”
He still stroked his beard. “The Lord knows how
I’ll manage it, but a bold heart and a bold plan often
win. Has he a bold heart?”
“Yes, William, he is a brave lad. It broke my
heart to see him in the chain gang. You under-
stand?” She laid a hand on his arm.
“Yes, I understand,” he said. “There are no
services in the church to-night?”
“None. After curfew it will be deserted.”
T" HEY met as they had arranged. It was dark inside
* the church save for the light of the stars through
the high, wide windows. In the dim light the pews,
each with its little half-door, seemed peopled with
ghosts, and in the chancel, from which the stairs
wound up to the bells, it was pitch-dark.
“We can’t light the candle yet,” he said. “It
would be seen through the windows. Take my hand.”
He thrilled at her warm fingers touching his and
gripped them firmly. Her fragrance, so close to him,
made his blood dance. They went up together with
their free hands against the walls to steady them.
“Now we can light the candle,” McKinnon said.
The yellow light shining on the weathered masonry,
they continued their climb till the top of the stairs
was in sight.
“It is I—Frances,” she whispered. “We’ve come
to take you away.”
“Ah!” The exclamation voiced the prisoner’s
relief.
“This is my friend William McKinnon,” she said.
“He is mate of the Flying Childers, and will take you
away.”
“God willing,” McKinnon said. “You are James
Dawson?”
“Yes, sir.”
“You’ll have to brazen it out. You can’t go
skulking about and sneaking on board like a rat.
You’ll dress as a whaler before we leave here. Miss
Frances, can you wait there in the turn of the stairs?
We won’t be long. Keep the candle out of the belfry
lest it shines through the lattice.”
He was unwrapping the bundle he carried and
handing the clothes to the youth, who hastily threw
off his gaol dress and got in the others —bell-bottomed
white trousers of moleskin, high-heeled shoes, blue
jersey over a white shirt, a black scarf for a neck-
cloth, and a small flat grey felt hat with a black
velvet band. When he was dressed he looked little
like the lad from the chain gang, yet he lacked the
weathered features of the men of the whaleships.
“I’m ready,” Dawson said, and began groping
his way down the stairs, for the candlelight was fitful
shining behind him. His hand found hers, held out
to guide him, and they clung, hers holding his tightly.
“We must get down to Arthur’s Circus and into
tfre inns there among the whalers,” McKinnon said
when they were in Colville-street, and Frances paused
ere she turned back to her home.
“Say good-bye,” McKinnon said. “You won’t
meet again for a year.” A kindliness was in his rough
voice as he walked on a few paces.
“I’ll come back,” James Dawson said to Frances.
“I’ll never forget your”-
“Come back,” she said softly. “That will be my
thanks and reward.” She laughed shakily. * “You
look a real whaler.” Then she turned and ran off.
McKinnon took him by the arm. “When you’ve
had a dozen rums and get your neckcloth awry and
hat on one side you’ll pass, maybe. Remember you’re
from the Emily Downing, just in—cabin-boy you were
in her. Now you have joined the Flying Childers as
a whaleman. Swagger! Whalers all swagger; real
devils they are. Don’t drag your feet —step out.”
PAST Cottage Green and Waterloo-crescent they
went, and turned into Hampden-road and walked
on till they came to the mouth of a narrow lane
flanked on each side by two flaring gin-shops named
the Prince Imperial and the Duke of York. Beyond
these lay Arthur’s Circus.


£155 for Stories.
The Buixehn wants short stories for its fiction
section, and Cinesound Productions, Ltd., wants stories
suitable for the screen.
“The Bulletin” offers
First Prize £3O
Second £l5
Third £5
Special Prize Brief Story £5
Cinesound offers for
Best Screen Story £lOO
It is possible for one story to win in both sections.
In addition to the prizes, all entries published will be
paid for at Bulletin rates.
Entries must not exceed 6500 words; 1500 words is
the limit in the Brief Story section.
Entries must be original, and hitherto unpublished.
Scenarios are NOT wanted. Cinesound will attend to
that.
Closing date is January 31, 1938. But any entry
considered to have a chance will be paid for and pub-
lished as it comes to hand.
Entries to be addressed:
“Short Story Competition,”
C/o “The Bulletin,”
Box 252188, G.P.0., Sydney.
Any further particulars may be had from The Bulletin.
On each side the road and footpaths curved away,
making a circle between them a green sward on
which danced and shouted drunken men and women,
for the Emily Downing’s men had landed with plenty
of money and were spending it royally. From the
inns men came and went, carrying jorums of rum
or huge pewters of ale for themselves and the women.
McKinnon pushed his companion roughly into
the doorway of the bar of the Prince Imperial so as
to give him the appearance of entering boldly. In-
stantly they found themselves in a bedlam of noise,
surrounded by half-drunken or drunken men. A
woman approached James Dawson and took his arm.
“I bagged him first, the pretty boy,” she giggled.
“Buy me a drink and I’ll give you a kiss, dearie.”
The lad stood waiting for a cue from McKinnon.
“You’ll have to wait till he gets his advance money
from the Flying Childers to-morrow,” McKinnon told
the woman.
“All right. .’ll see you then, duckie.” She
staggered away, and an old whaler, addressing
William, looked at James and said “A new ’un?
Where’d ye find him, mister?”
“Cabin-boy off the Emily Downing, signed to
sail with us in the Flying Childers.”
“Good! What’ll ye have, boy?”
“Rum, please.”
Ye mean rum —we don’t beg pardons here,” the
man said roughly.
“Rum, then,” James laughed. “Bloody rum.”
That s the talk. Aggie, give this man a jorum
of rum.”
McKinnon began to see that further disguise in
speech and manner, and in appearance too, must be
effected in Dawson to make hiiii safe from suspicion.
Suddenly the solution came in the shape of a rough
young whaler in a red jersey, badge of the port watch
of a ship, blue markings being those of the starboard
watch.
Hullo, what this we’ve got here?” he shouted.
He s a new hand. Joined the Flying Childers
with Mac here,” the old whaler said. “What ails ye,
Castiron?”
1 Nothin’ ails me, but it soon will this gaolbird.
That’s what he is. I know ’em.”
McKinnon whispered to Dawson “Fight him. Hit
him hard —quick! ”
Dawson’s muscles were hard as iron with the
road-work and the stone-lifting. A half-smile came
to his face and he swung round to face his attacker.
“What’s the matter with you, eh?”
“You are. Call yourself a whaler?”
The next instant the man reeled back against the
crowd with a red weal on one cheek where Jim’s fist
had caught him on the cheekbone in a jarring blow that
made his head jangle.
“A tiger, eh?” Castiron yelled.
Come on, then! Well settle it now.
See what a whaler can do to your ugly
mug.”
They were fighting fiercely, Jim
trying to keep clear of the whaler’s
bearlike hug yet raining in blows fast
and skilfully. Round the combatants
surged the whalers, some with their
tankards in their hands, others without
them, having lost interest in all but the
fight. Bill McKinnon did not move
from his place at the bar, but under
his calm exterior at every feint and
blow his muscles twitched in sympathy,
eager to see Jim win.
But he had no chance. Castiron
was truly named. The problem of dis-
guise for Dawson was being settled by
the hard fists of the whaler. First one
eye and then the other closed and took
on weird colors, and Jim’s lip swelled
suddenly and painfully from a terrific
blow which caught it.
Without warning, while all in the
bar were absorbed in the fight, two men
in police uniform dashed in, using their
truncheons to gee through the on-
lookers.
“What’s all this?” one who was a
sergeant asked, grabbing Castiron by
his neckcloth. “Clear this bar, land-
lord. D’ye think this sort of thing can
go on? His Excellency’ll be shooting
us all. The Circus is plain hell to-
night.”
The constable had seized Dawson,
gripping him by the arm till it hurt.
Look here, you,” he shouted, shaking
Jim like a rat, “you’ll be dead soon
enough without killin’ each other!” He
flung Jim away, reeling and bruised and
almost blind, while the sergeant railed
at Castiron, whose face was streaming
with blood from a cut in one eye.
Castiron, recognising a stout fighter, spoke in
different strain now. “This shipmate hit me in the
face. I won’t let no starboard-watch hound do that! ”
“What did you hit him for?” the sergeant asked
Jim.
“He called me a gaolbird, so I hit him,” Jim said
hotly.
“We’ll let. it stop here.” The sergeant liked the
whalers and gave them some rope, as he put it. “The
Governor’s getting tired of whalers’ brawls. You
don’t own the Battery, you know. Come on, con-
stable—we’ll look round the Circus and stop sheer
murder being done.”
McKinnon took Jim by the arm to guide him.
“Come to the pump in the yard and we’ll wash your
face. Then we’ll go to the Mariner’s Compass Inn
and go to bed. You'll stay there till it’s time to
go on board, which won’t be till just before we sail.”
Later they went to the inn, and with raw beef-
steaks on his eyes Jim managed to sleep. But he
would be disfigured for a week and more, and Bill
McKinnon grinned every time he looked at him, for
his disguise seemed complete.
A check came to their plan the night before
the Flying Childers sailed. McKinnon had gone on
board to live, being mate and having the responsi-
bilities of that post. But Jim was to stay at the inn
till the police had searched the ship, as they did all
whalers, for runaways and ticket-of-leave men. In
the room where Jim slept were two beds, and he
awoke on the last day he was to be in Hobart Town
to find a stranger in the second bed. It had been a
hot night, and one of Jim’s feet stuck out from the
sheets. The stranger’s eyes were on that foot, and
Jim, with his heart suddenly gone cold, drew it in
under the sheet. He knew that on each ankle were
the marks of the irons—even the light irons worn by
the working gangs made a circlet of hard skin, an
unerring sign of the lag. And the stranger had seen it.
Nothing was said, and the lad had dressed and
gone to his breakfast without anything further hap-
pening to revive that icy fear that the man’s watching,
comprehending eyes had given him. For a whaler
to have the marks of the irons was fatal. Nothing
happened till he was starting out for his ship. Then
a sudden strong hand fell on his shoulder, another
on his other arm. He was whirled round to face two
warders, handcuffs were snapped on his wrists.
“A whaler, eh, James Dawson?” one of the
warders snarled. “A good joke. Thought you’d get
away. You’ve been on a royal spree, too—l wouldn’t
have recognised you.”
A Judge was on the Bench at the time, and the
prisoner went straight before him.
“A bad case,” the Judge said. “You are sen-
tenced to ten years’ additional hard labor.” He flicked
his handkerchief as if waving away something unclean.
“Do you want him flogged or given solitary confine-
ment, sergeant?”
“Just a few lashes, your Honor. Then we want
him back at the reservoir. He’s a first-class stone-
mason. The work’s behindhand, and his Excellency
is impatient at the delay.”
1 N the evening, back in the gang, James Dawson
marched past St. George’s Church while the bells
were chiming and calling in their glad, mad way in
a Christmas peal. Far down the Derwent he saw a
ship, the Flying Childers, sailing away into the free
world of the seas.
Suddenly his heart stopped. He almost fell, and
the lewd-faced warder shoved him forward. A girl
was standing near the church, waving her handker-
chief to the whaleship. She glanced at the chain
gang, smiling at the thought that the lad who had
marched in the chain gang was sailing away in that
ship. And she gave not even a glance to the bent
figure in yellow-striped clothes who shambled along
with eyes half-shut and dead like the eyes of one
who passes the gates of heaven on his way to hell.
The problem of disguise was being settled.


"Poets’ Justice Falls Alike on the Rich and the Poor”
The ANGORA'S BOX
BY HAROLD MERCER
DRAWINGS BY ARIA.
it “TT HERE is no doubt about that poets’ justice
f that falls alike on the rich and the poor who
L -j are always with us,” said Mrs. Parsley.
“Look at all that fuss there was about little
Miss Muggins’s box —a regular Angora’s Box, Mr.
Slompack said it was, when he got to know of the
commotion, with all the trouble it caused ; and now
the Stooples, who were Number 11, are going to
England.”
The curious jumble caught me unawares ; my
questioning look was all the encouragement my land-
lady needed. Sometimes she releases her garrulity
with none at all. The pretence of “finishing off
my room was abandoned.
“That box might have been made of diamonds,
for the fuss that was made about it, what with Miss
Muggins herself and them Hoddles and Parkleighs and
Tuckers. They used to come down like the Assyrians
on the fold ; and I never could stand Assyrians if
they were sheep in wolves’ clothing or not.
“The first time I saw that box was when I met
little Miss Muggins when she arrived to stay with the
Stooples. She was standing by her luggage, which the
taxi-man, not being paid more than his right fare, as
one could see with half an eye, had stacked them
like a mountain made out of a molehill.
“ ‘What do you think I should do with that box,
Mrs. Parsley?’ asks Miss Muggins when Mrs. Stoople
had gone upstairs carrying some of the parcels.
“ ‘Get it mended,’ I says, not guessing at once
that she was hinting about me getting someone to
carry it up the stairs. It was only afterwards, in the
effusion of time, that I found that that box was
an apple in the eye, as the saying is, to little Miss
Muggins. She wouldn’t budge until she saw it go
safely up the stairs with her, as if she was its garden
angel.
“ ‘Little Auntie’s a queer bird, Mrs. Parsley,’ says
Mr. Stoople, explaining-like afterwards. ‘She sort of
shares herself around amongst us and the other rela-
tives. You’ll see how they get sore if she stays with
us for long!’
“‘They all think she has something valuable in
the box,’ says Mrs. Stoople. ‘With us it doesn’t
matter ;we like little Auntie. We call her that,
although she’s only a distance relative really.’
“I always liked them Stooples ; if he did get drunk
he did it most respectably, and he always made up for
the rent the next week if he’d spent it. They were
a jolly pair, and if they did live a hand to foot exist-
ence, as Mr. Stoople called it, they was very happy
over it, spending the money they didn’t have very
cheerful like. But don’t talk to me about them other
relatives! If them plagues of Egypt were anything
like them I don’t wonder them Ismailites were glad
to get away from them even if they had to sleep on s
pillow of cloud by night.
“Miss Muggins was a proud little woman whc
loved to talk about her illustrated aunt’s sisters, as she
called them. But they wasn’t all women. Her grand-
father had been a captain of Hurras in the Crimean
War, and she had'some aunt’s sisters who fought in
the Wars of the Rosies, too. Of course, I had heard
tell of the women who manicured themselves to the
railings of the House of Commons in England and
defiled the police who tried to move them ; but I had
never heard them called Rosies before. I don’t go
much on women who brawl in the streets myself.
The home is the place for that sort of thing, as I
always say ; but, there, I suppose they felt they had a
riotous cause. I must say little Miss Muggins didn’t
look like a woman who would be one of them.
“The quietest little mouse as ever said boo to a
goose, she was. The box had belonged to the grand-
father who belonged to the Hurras; she
said it had been with him in the Crimean
War, which it looked. He had brought it
with him to Australia and he had left it
to the granddaughter who had been his
greatest pet and had always been with him.
“ "That box is my greatest treasure,
Mrs. Parsley,’ she told me. ‘Nohody will
know what I have in that box until I am
dead ’'
“ ‘I expect it holds the missing will,’
says Mr. Slompack, who was fond of what
he called Hairy Percy’s flage, although, as
I often told him, he had no right to men-
tion a man like Hairy Percy, whoever he
was, before ladies. Everybody seemed to
get to know about Miss Muggins-’s box, and
they was curious about it, even though, as Mr. Slom-
pack said, they was disintersected parties.
uDUT them relatives! I never saw such a lot.
D Miss Muggins hadn’t been staying with the
Stooples for more than a few days before one of them,
which I afterwards found out was Mrs. Hoddle, rings
up on the telephone.
“‘Oh, are you the landlady?’ she says. And she
wants to know if Miss Muggins is still staying, and if
I knew if she brought an old box with her. All sort
of questions, as if I was the riddle of the Pinks. When
I brought Miss Muggins I could see, although I’m no
Peeping Tom that listens into other people’s conver-
sations, that that Mrs. Hoddle was asking her when
she was going along to stay with them. Miss Muggins
said she thought she would stay on with the dear
Stooples for a while longer.
“There wasn’t one of them who, when they came,
didn’t try to pump me about Miss Muggins and the
Stooples before going up to the flat. They’d pretend
they wanted to be told the way to the flat, as they
had forgotten, and then they’d start talking.
“‘I suppose, Mrs. Parsley,’ says Mrs. Parkleigh,
which was as sharp-faced a woman as ever you could
cut with a knife, ‘that Miss Muggins has never dropped
a hint, in conversation with you, about what she has
in her box?’
“I told her no ; and then she said that the Stooples
were just fortune-hunters who only wanted Miss
Muggins for what they expected to get from her when
she died. ‘That’s why I would like to get the poor
soul away from them,’ she says.
“ ‘The Stooples are very respectable people, and
tenants of mine who always pay their rent, I says
stiffly. ‘I will not hear a word to their interment.
And I’m sure they’re very fond of the little Auntie,
as they call her.’
k|T was when Miss Muggins went to stay at the
1 Parkleighs’ and left the box in the Stooples’ flat
that the fun started, if fun you could call it, though
some people have a queer sense of humor. All the
family seemed to have heard \ and the way they ram-
paged on the ’phone, like roaring liars seeking their
prey, as the saying is, was dreadful. I knew, because
of the way Mr. Stoople swore back at them, and him
apologising to me about it.
“ ‘As if the little Auntie can’t leave her box
where she chooses —although this is the first time I ve
known her do it,’ he says. They think we ve put
something over them; though, as far as I m con-
cerned, 1 wish that little Auntie had taken her box
with her.’
“It was a regular family row, and some of it
was fought out on my stairs. That was when the
Tuckers, who was some more of the relatives, came
along and said that it was an insult to all the rest
of the family, Miss Muggins leaving her box with the
Stooples.
“ ‘We’ll get a conjunction to have you strained
from using undue influence,’ screams Mrs. Tucker.
And she did her screaming in the corridor, because
the Stooples wouldn’t let them into the flat.
“It faas worse than that, even, when a couple of
men, one of them old and the other young, came
along.
“ ‘Mrs. Parsley, the Stooples seem to be out, the
elder man said. ‘Have you a key to let us into the


flat? Our name is Parkleigh—l’m Mr. Parkleigh and
this is my son. You see, Miss Muggins has sent us
to get her box.”
“They seemed so genuine that I was almost open-
ing the door for them ; but I was glad that 1 didn’t
when I found out that Miss Muggins hadn’t sent for
her box, and wanted the Stooples to keep it for her,
as Mr. Stoople found out, speaking to her on the
’phone. Can you imagine such Judas Iscarrots? They
made quite a fuss before they went. They might
have been there yet if Mr. Slompack hadn’t said that
it was a long time since he had had the pleasure of
throwing anyone down stairs, and he felt the need for
exercise. That he told me was some more of that
Hairy Percy’s flage.
“ ‘l’m sorry you’ve been worried, Mrs. Parsley,’
says Mr. Stoople. ‘l’ll ask the little Auntie to take
her box next time ; there’s too much trouble about it.
It appears that she did not want to take it to the
Parkleighs’ because on a previous occasion she caught
that young reprobreak who was here to-night trying
to go through it.’
“After that matters seemed to go on the even
tendon of their way, as the Bible says ; that was after
Miss Muggins had come back to collect her box and
go off to the Tuckers’. Of course, when she was away
like that, and her box was away, too, I didn’t hear
much of how things were going from bad to worse
or otherwise. But when 'she came back again there
was all the rumpus over again. Although tj?ey was
the poorest of the lot and only had a small flat, she
seemed to like best to be with the Stooples. But the
other relatives hated her being there, although, from
what I heard some of them say, they grudged what
they gave her.
“ ‘She ought to pay for her keep,’ says Mrs. Push-
man. ‘Why should she go round from one to another
never paying for anything? We can afford it; but
it’s imposition on people in your position,’ she says.
“ ‘We’re not going to grudge little Auntie a few
meals and a bed,’ says Stoople.
“ ‘No ; but you don’t expect to get it all back
when little Auntie dies! Oh no, of course not! ’
screeches Mrs. Pushman.
“They was a nasty lot, all of them. Although
I say it myself, them being my tenants, them Stooples
seemed to be the only decent ones of the crowd.
“One day when Miss Muggins was still away, at
the Hoddles’ this time, the telephone started again, and
I knew there was trouble because, when Mr. Stoople
answered, both of them got very angry and started
to roar into the ’phone about hell and other un-
pleasant places that are mentioned in the Bible. It
is usual, when a man talks like that, he is talking to
his relatives, which I knew it was in this case. I was
just wondering what it was all about when little
Auntie arrived with all her luggage piled up in the
entrance.
“Mr. Stoople banged down the receiver and ran
down the stairs to her. She was crying.
“You could have knocked me down with the last
feather to fly with”
“ ‘Little Auntie, I hope you’re not upset. You
mustn’t be upset. We’re glad to have you again. I’ll
take your box up,’ he says.
“ ‘No ; it doesn’t matter about the box,’ she says.
“ ‘l’ll take it up,’ he says.
<‘'“FHEY’D hardly gone upstairs before the place
* seemed full of people. There was Hoddles and
Pushmans and Parkleighs all looking nastier than I’d
seen them before, as if they was going to a dogfight.
“ ‘That woman is an imposture. She impostured
on all of us!’ said Mrs. Parkleigh to me.
“It was no use telling them that the Stooples were
out or didn’t want to see them ; I simply went up
to see that they didn’t make a disturbance in a respect-
able residential. When the door of Number 11 was
opened they simply poured in. There was poor little
Auntie crying in a corner, with Mrs. Stoople trying
to bring comfort to the worn lamb with the heart
bowed down by weighty woe.
“But Mr. Stoople faced them crowd of relatives
like the horns of an angry bull; he called them swine,
which he always seemed to like to call them, and told
them to clear out.
“ ‘We’ve come to expose that woman. We
decided to come all together,’ says that Mr. Parkleigh,
which is as bad as his wife. A yeller jaunders, if ever
there was one, he looks. ‘She’s been imposing on us
all these years, leading us to believe she had something
valuable in that box. And there’s nothing but rubbish
in it.’
“ ‘Living on us! ’ screamed Mrs. Hoddle.
“ ‘You won’t get that money you was counting
on, Tom Stoople!’ said Mrs. Tucker.
“It was wonderful to see the way Mr. Stoople
dealt with them, like Horatius defying the lightning.
It seems that them Hoddles, which it was like their
cheeky impudence, had gone through Miss Muggins’s
box while she was out. And they’d found out there
was nothing in it like they thought she was keeping
like a miser. So, not satisfied with turning the poor
soul out into life’s rain, they had gathered together
like a pack of wolves at the door to hunt her down
and crow it over the Stooples.
“ ‘lt’s prime! ’ chuckles Mr. Slompack. ‘Fancy a
simple-looking old lady like Miss Muggins, not having
enough to live on, putting it over those vinegary hard-
heads like that! That chap Stoople was fine.’
“He had been, too, the way he had stuck to that
poor Miss Muggins, saying that he didn’t care whether
she had money or not, she was always welcome to a
home with them.
“Just as we was talking about it, in comes Mr.
Stoople himself. He had a paper in his hands.
“ ‘l’ve left the poor little Auntie with my wife,’
he says. ‘l’d like to explain. The poor little soul,
when her grandfather died, found she’d been left with
a mere pittance. When she found how ready all these
capacious relatives were to believe she had money
because the old grandfather had once been rich as a
Crisis, she let them go on thinking. She still carries in
that box piles of scriptures—all valueless, of course —
that would have made her a wealthy woman if the old
man had not been foolish and invested his money in
the J. Bees Balfuer affairs which went smash.’
4 ‘ \7 OU talk about the mysterious ways of Provi-
’ dence which always give a silver lining to the
darkest cloud before the dawn! Mr. Slompack, which
I always thought was using that Hairy Percy’s flage
when he said he was a broker, almost jumped in the
air as he grabbed that bit of scripture which Mr.
Stoople had in his hand to show what Miss Muggins
had been keeping.
“You could have knocked me down with
the last feather to fly with when Mr. Slom-
pack said that if Miss Muggins had a lot of
those she was well-to-do. He had a lot to
say about trustees of that there J. Bees Bal-
fuer estate who’d nursed the asses until there
was a lot of money years afterwards for them
as thought they' had lost it—but all that sort
of talk was so much Greek and Algeria to me.
All I knew was that by the divine aspersions of
Providence poor Miss Muggins was rich.
“And there was Mr. Stoople ringing on the ’phone
like a man processed to call them relatives ‘swine’
again and tell them the news.
“ ‘Annie and I are going to make a trip to Eng-
land with little Auntie,’ he yells at them.
“And Slompack tells Stoople how fine he thought
he had been. ‘You didn’t care about the money, any-
way,’ he says, ‘yet you must have been dis-
appointed.’
“Mr. Stoople laughed. ‘No, I wasn’t,’ he says.
‘You see, we knew poor little Auntie didn’t have any-
thing but that scripture that we thought no good.
You see, being hard-up, and thinking Auntie might
help us, we went through her box twelve years
ago.’ ”
A remembrance that she had a duster in her hand
came back to Mrs. Parsley. “Well, isn’t that poets’
justice?” she demanded.
Garden Belonga God
BY KAY ELLIS.
QUINGELARWE was not happy. Everything
was new and strange; even the grotesque
white man’s clothes that chafed his skin hung
like a weight about his neck and made him
feel a prisoner.
He tilted his head back and looked at the top
of the church steeple, a dark outline pencilled against
the bright tropic sky. He was a little afraid of the
church. Before he came to the mission the only
buildings he knew were the paper-bark mia-mias and
bough shelters of the bush blacks, and to him this tall,
dark, concrete-floored building was the abode of
spirits. During the morning service he felt uneasy
whenever the big door was closed, shutting out the
bright, friendly sunshine; and at evensong it was
worse, for the smoky oil-lamps swung from the ceil-
ing caused fitful, flickering shadows to move like
gigantic beings from the shadow world of his ances-
tors.
Quingelarwe turned and watched the big, sluggish
river that flowed at the bottom of the garden. Only
that day the teacher had asked him who had made
the river and trees and flowers, and the other children
had laughed when he said that the kangaroo had
made the river. The teacher was angry, and said that
he had been a mission boy long enough to know
better. He was anxious to please his teacher, and
had repeated after her: “God bin makum river
and tree and allabout.” But in his heart he knew
that it was not so ; his father had told him, and the
old witch-doctor who knew everything.
A thin wisp of smoke ascended on the other
side of the river. Quingelarwe sniffed the familiar
scent of burning gum leaves, his hungry stomach mur-
muring at the thought of fat goanna roasting on live
coals. The other side of the river was out of bounds.
The teacher said that it was a dreadful place, and
only heathens lived there —a mission boy must not
mix with them. Perhaps the teacher did not under-
stand. Quingelarwe’s tribe belonged to across the
river, and it was a happy country —plenty of food,
goanna, possum, flying-fox, beautiful billabongs
covered with lilies, and ground-nuts, yams, wild-
currants and native oranges . . .
Quingelarwe wandered into the garden, past the
pawpaw- and mulberry-trees, through the rows of
staked tomatoes and into the cool shade of the banana
plantation. He was not allowed to touch the fruit,
but sometimes he had to weed the garden or carry
buckets of water to the thirsty trees. He loved the
garden, but was afraid to look hard at the fruit in
case someone saw him and thought he was going to
steal.
He sat on a log and dangled his feet in the water.
When the crayfish nibbled his bare toes he longed
to make a sudden grab and catch them, but it was
Sunday and therefore wicked to catch fish or hunt
birds or play games. The Sunday-school lesson had
been about the crea’tion, and teacher said that God
made the world, and animals, and men, and the bush
for his garden. Quingelarwe liked to think that the
bush was God’s garden. It was, different from the
missionaries’ garden, for God did not seem to mind
when the wild fruit was picked—even on Sunday.
In the bush Quingelarwe could eat when he was
hungry, sleep when he was tired, play when he wanted
to, and there were no bells to listen for, and no
uncomfortable clothes. He thought of the sweet
water-lily roots warm from roasting, of the crisp,
juicy lily stems and the satisfying damper made from
the seeds. Idly Quingelarwe wondered what God ate,
for He never seemed to take anything from the
mission garden. But, then, of course, the bush was
His garden ; probably when He was hungry He ate
there.
A bell rang in the compound, and Quingelarwe
jumped to his feet and climbed the steep path that
led from the river. As he walked through the garden
his keen nostrils caught a new, strangely sweet smell.
Quingelarwe found a beautiful white bud that was
just opening into a flower. It did not belong to the
fruit-trees, and was not good to eat, so it could not
be wanted. He pulled it and carried it in his hand
as he walked towards the soup-kitchen.
HTHE teacher hardly waited for grace to finish before
* attacking the superintendent. “I do hope you
won’t allow any more of those cross-river blacks to
leave their children here. They are positively im-
possible.”
“What is it now?” asked the old clergyman with
a smile. “Have they been pouring water into the
rain-gauge again, or merely chivying the fowls?”
“Neither. It’s that Quingelarwe. His example
will ruin the other children. He picked my beautiful
frangipanni that was just coming into bloom. As if
he didn’t know better! I gave him a sound thrash-
ing, but he is so hardened that 1 doubt if it will do
any good. He Well, I declare! What cheek!”
Quingelarwe was coming along the path to the
missionaries’ dining-room as naked as God made
him, carrying a tiny spear in one hand and his mission
clothes in the other.
“Well, my boy, what is it?” asked the old man.
“Me go ’way now, boss —cross river. Me hungry
belonga bush. God can’t hit me when me catchum
flower and fruit. Mission all right, but garden belonga
God more better.”


C. E. KUCHING PTY. LTD.
)i
I*l
a vi
wp -.: mm
wM* * ‘
A ustralids Leading
Specialists in Travel Goods
Gents’ Zipp Dressing
Sets, as illustrated,
70/-
Others from 32 ; 6
319 George Street, Sydney.
(Near Wynyard Station.)
BlLVCCllKE *>X'
ĺ
MADE BY
MARTIN, SONS & CO., LTD,
HUDDERSFIELD, ENGLAND,
THE FOUNDERS OF THE WORSTED INDUSTRY.
1
Pfc IT
I %
111 It
THE IDEAL OF ALL WELL-DRESSED MEN,
POSITIVELY
THE LARGEST RANGE OF EXCLUSIVE DESIGNS
EVER PRESENTED FOR MEN’S
SUITINGS
BlLVEOt.Ht>!fe*
BELVEDERE
mm' Belveoere jWe-i Belvedere > Belvedere „ «w Belvederi
Comedy Harmonists.
Poorly upholstered as we are, these Town Hall
chairs seem a bit on the hard side. We feel, before the
night is out, how comfortable, it would be to get
down and sit on the lovely soft floor under our feet.
We try it tentatively with our shoe-soles. Ironbark,
or blackbutt, or some other of those cushiony Aus-
tralian timbers. Tempting, at any rate, to slide off
this criss-cross of cane strips and sit in ease for a
while.
True, from down there we wouldn’t be able to
see the Harmonists. It ,is no criticism of them, it is
only our desperation, which makes us feel that that
wouldn’t matter much.
Alas! this idea of slipping to the floor is vain
mooning for the unattainable. Not only are our
Town Hall seats lashed together in rows, raftlike,
precautionary against the next Deluge or petty thieves
who might be tempted to take one home and add it
to the rockery ; these rows of them are placed Ift.
apart, so that we sit with our bony knees pressed into
the back curve of the one in front.
And that, surely, is no fault of A.B.C. When,
regardless of expense, they import Comedy Har-
monists and all Sydney wants to go and hear them
at once, why shouldn’t A.B.C. do its best in the way
of extra seats towards obliging all Sydney?
Not the fault of Town Hall authority, either.
How do we know but what the annex or wherever
they store the extra rows might be needed to-night
for an important meeting of the City Fathers racking
their brains to discover how next they might display
their undoubted ability in making theirs one of the
most up-to-date cities in the world?
No ; of course it is not the fault of any of those.
It is wholly our fault for having legs. Who are we
that we should have legs? Are we centipedes? And
if we are selfish enough to insist not only on keeping
these legs, now that we have ’em, but to insist also
on enjoying the private luxury of having bony knees,
can we fairly blame chairs, A.B.C. or Town Hall
authorities if these knees of ours, wedged in thus,
give us curry?
To the highest bidder,
if any.
Certainly not. And
we wouldn’t think of
doing so. Indeed, we
mention the matter only to
explain why it is we don’t
succumb to the tempta-
tion of sliding down to
the comparative comfort
of the floor. The heart is
willing but the feat’s im-
possible.
And, as we must
again insist, our feelings
regarding these chairs are
purely personal. The last
thing we would suggest is
that they ought to be
taken to a second-hand
auctioneer and knocked
down to the highest bidder, if any.
To prove how purely personal these feelings of
ours are we can adduce proof of how some people
like these chairs. We need go no further than the
chap sitting beside us. Endowed by a generous and
wise Nature with a breadth unequalled by Jessie the
Elephant, this gentleman likes these seats so much
that he occupies half of ours as well as his own, an
achievement in which he is naturally assisted by the
manner in which the chairs are lashed together.
And we’re not so unimaginative as not to per-
ceive what a boon such enforced propinquity, such
inescapable juxtaposition, might well be to, say,
wooers. Instead of feeling,
as we do, that the floor
would do us, they would
probably vote these Town
Hall chairs the most en-
joyable in the whole city.
Anyway, it’s clearly
because he enjoys sitting
in these chairs that the gentleman alongside us is by
now occupying three-quarters of ours as well as his
own. Enjoyment, plus natural construction. And
who are we to pick holes in the works of Nature?
We might feel that this gentleman is beefy in the
beam, but how do we know but what in shorts at
Bondi he might outdo Adonis himself, or even
Strangler Lewis?
In any case, as to his being beefy, what sort of
unpatriotic ingrates we would be if we didn’t see in
this the splendid advertisement it is for Australian
mutton, lard, sausages, pork, rolled oats and produce
of all sorts! Surely it doesn’t take very penetrating
eyes to see that he probably gets through about half
a ton more good honest foodstuffs a week than we do.
Of course, it’s men such as this who help most
to support the Man on the Land. And who are we
to want to take the very bread out of the Man qn
Outdo Adonis.
the Land’s mouth?
What’s the mere cir-
cumstance of the
gentleman beside us
now occupying seven-
eighths of our seat as
well as his own to
such a national issue
as that?
Say we had
brought that pin
along? Say we had
done this foul deed
that obsesses us, and
stuck it fair into him? How do we know but what it
might have given him bloodpoisoning? Then we would
not merely have felt the desire, we would have known
the experience of being murderers.
Well, there are some things we simply won’t come
at, not even to hear illustrious people like the Comedy
Harmonists in what our obviously spoiled selves have
come to regard as comfort.
And is it the fault of Town Hall authorities if
we are thus spoilt? No, of that we’re absolutely cer-
tain. It’s the fault of the St. James Theatre people
for seating us on Wednesday night in plush, of the
Plaza Theatre people for seating us on Thursday night
in fine red leather, of the State Theatre people for
seating us on Friday night in velvet over sponge-
rubber.
It’s people like these, not our Spartan City
Fathers, who deserve and are hereby given full blame
for thus callously enhancing our sense of discomfort
with a sense of comparison. It is they who are to
blame for our being assailed with the wretched
thought, as we sit here on Town Hall chair (part
thereof), that if we were leaning back in luxury in one
of their seats it wouldn’t matter a helluvalot to us if
it wasn’t the Comedy Harmonists to whom we were
listening.
City Fathers, thinking.
Yes, it’s people
like those who unfit
people like ourselves
for properly enjoy-
ing our Town Hall
chairs and what goes
with ’em. Even so,
as we have said, this
is wholly a personal
matter. We do not
want it thought for a
second that we im-
agine any other per-
son in the hall is feeling as we are. Certainly we
see a few of Providence’s lesser masterpieces—people
constructed like ourselves—shifting on the cane strips,
but how can we say that that may not be paroxysms
of delight? All the nobler masterpieces—replicas, in
both sexes, of the gentleman beside us —how firm
and well they sit, like boats equally properly propor-
tioned as to beam sitting on the sweet waters round
about Pyrmont.
But now, looking around as well as being thus
firmly wedged in will allow us —the Comedy Harmon-
ists would forgive our attention thus wandering ; they
would know it wasn’t- their fault; we, and we alone,
are to blame, Philistines that we are, and damn’ poorly
upholstered Philistines at that —well, looking around
us we discover that there are some leather chairs at
the end of our raft, abutting on the centre aisle!
Sensational theft at the Town Hail.
One, two, three, four —yes, four of them.
No, by heavens, four on the aisle-end of each of
the first half-dozen or so rafts!
We do not faint easily, but we almost do so now.
Those leather chairs; so near and yet so far! What
do they spell? Luxury? Comfort? Heaven? We
fear they do ; but we fear, too, that they spell more.
They spell degeneration! We implore you, City
Fathers, stop this wanton destruction of the Spartan
spirit of the people before it is too late! Stop it, we
say, before you, too, have to be likened to all those
picture places we have named, spoilers of the fine,
hardy, splendid fibre of our tough southern race!
Did the Diggers fight at Gallipoli for you to let
them down now? Did the pioneers pioneer the great
empty spaces for you to start their descendants on
the road to degeneration by forcing them to sit soft?
No, no. Tell it not in Gath. Never let it be
said that your mothers bred milksops. Let your
slogan for the next municipal elections be: Corru-
gated Seats for Concert Sitters!
Ah!
Don’t, whatever
you do, think of people
like us. We’re effete,
that’s what we are.
What good would we
be fighting in China?
No; don’t be misled.
Go on as you have
gone on for genera-
tions—ever since these
original chairs were
bought or presented to
you as left-overs from some junk sale in the nineteen-
hpndreds depression.
Don’t mind us wedged in here thinking such
thoughts as that these Comedy Harmonists would
sound better to us in a nice-sized drawing-room, or
that their miming is a circumstance beside, say, Mr.
George’s Gee’s or Mr. Sammy Stein’s, or that we
thought them better when we heard them at home
over the wireless. We have written this for no other
purpose than to explain how unrepresentative beings
like ourselves come by such thoughts as those.
Not your fault, City Fathers. Nor yours, A.B.C.
Nor yours, Comedy Harmonists. Nor yours, gentle-
man beside us. Nor yours, Town Hall chairs. No ;
it’s ours. We can’t take it, that’s all.
Not for one minute do we pose as critics. We
know that ten thousand or so people can’t be wrong,
and there are about that many present on this occa-
sion that we write of —clapping, and clapping, and
clapping, and clapping, while we sit here numb and
dumb.
Critics? Huh! When the only critical thought
we can manage, sitting here listening to these Comedy
Harmonists, is that this damn’ chair, too, is Austrian.


' •
mhhi
MW
?$»
ri-^r
wis
m
iim
*»*■*•*&
iiili
ssssss®?::?
HI
:W»
;
s¥:¥:S«|:®xw¥k^*S^
■ wnnSmSS
mmm
nil Tiircp
nla lag;: 1' Ula i)li
FEATURES
WOULD COST
YOU £500... IN
ANY OTHER
CAR except
TV Bit QPI H lIP
& Li mmmgmm e
Terraplane is the Lowest
Priced Car in the World
to give you all these
features and, in addi-
tion, Terraplane’s grace
and beauty of line appeal
to every owner. Come in
and drive a Terraplane —
a car is waiting for you.
TERRAPLANE for COMFORT
Only Terraplane gives you a front-seat width of 55
inches ample room for three. And in addition a
level floor in the rear —ensuring your passengers’
comfort: an extra large luggage-trunk and every
standard improvement made during 1937,
TERRAPLANE for ECONOMY
Winner for two years’ running of the C.O.R. Petrol
Consumption Test recognised as being the fairest
and truest Economy Test held in Australia. Many
owners report up to 24 m.p.g.
TERRAPLANE for SAFETY
Outstanding Safety Features include Duo-Hydraulic
Brakes All-Steel Body (including Roof and Floor)
'—and Radial Safety Control with Tru-Line Steering.
This relieves springs of power and braking strains:
their only duly is to cushion the car. Holds steering
mechanism and wheels in perfect alignment.
TERRAPLANE
for TIRELESS DRIVING
A selective Automatic Gear Shift is an optional extra.
Drive a Terraplane all day and you will feel as fresh
in the evening as when you started. Scientific ventila-
tion and the new, deeper, Double Drop “2X” Frame
make Terraplane the easiest car to drive the most
comfortable to ride in.
TERRAPLANE
PRICE £430
PLUS
SALES TAX
N.S.W. DISTRIBUTORS:
DALGETY and COMPANY, LTD,
C lncorporated in England )
136 PHILLIP STREET, SYDNEY.
QUEENSLAND DISTRIBUTORS:
Mclntosh motors pty., ltd.
Desmond Chambers,
Adelaide Street, BRISBANE, Q’LAND.
VICTORIAN DISTRIBUTORS:
NEAL’S MOTORS PTY., LTD.
140-144 Exhibition Street,
MELBOURNE, C.l.
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN DISTRIBUTORS:
• MOTORS, LIMITED
30-38 Flinders Street, ADELAIDE.
(Also 145 Gawler Place, Adelaide)
WESTERN AUSTRALIAN DISTRIBUTORS:
MORTLOCK BROS., LTD.
914 Hay Street, PERTH.
TASMANIAN DISTRIBUTORS:
H. C. HEATHORN & CO., LTD.
53-73 Bathurst Street, Brisbane Street,
HOBART. LAUNCESTON.
AUTHORISED DEALERS AT ALL MAIN COUNTRY CENTRES


ROYAL
PURPLE.
PARA
%
mmm
m
m
m
m
n
0^
&
■ ,
■
■
:
■
■
n»
*■■■■
i
1
M
'■j
■
■
n
Hi
V*
■
I
HB§
■
g h
&
■
.
a
m
m
m
Excellent View of Interior of One of the Many Large Storage Cellars.


“A SHIFTING FRONT.”
In the retreat from Taiyuan, Communist soldiers, pronounced by a Sydney daily “acknowledged masters of mobile warfare over a shifting front,” “ran screaming like
maniacs because they were splashed by sulphur bombs, which painfully affected their hands and faces. Thousands of refugees were thrown into further disorder by Chinese
military lorries tearing headlong through the crowds and mowing down those unable to avoid them.”
“This is rank ingratitude, considerin’ all we’ve done for you. Stop shiftin’, blast you, an’ show us a bit of front!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Gordon <£ Gotch (Aus.), Ltd.,
Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Say well Buildings, 115 Lambton
Quay, Wellington.
London: 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London,
E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 15s. 6d.;
3 months, Bs.
Posted Free to any address Overseas (Foreign):
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 25.; 3
months, 11s.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji, New
Hebrides and other places within the British
Empire, 2d. per copy. United Kingdom via France
or America, 2d. per copy. To all other places, 4d.
HOT AIR OVER CHINA.
Conference diplomacy is being tried once more; this
time at Brussels. It differs from the Genevan variety
only in that the emphatically-qualified voice of the
U.S.A. joins guardedly in the familiar chorus of
Britain, France, Australia, Maoriland, Canada, Portugal,
Bolivia, Mexico, China, Sweden, Holland and Norway.
The League of Nations with a very slight difference:
a top-heavy congregation of Powers, with the rest
irresponsible, insignificant or impotent. As far as
any practical result is likely to ensue, the League all
over again.
Those who can still find virtue in this sort of
diplomacy—despite its record of futility and trouble-
making—place great store on the addition of the
U.S.A. to the chorus. This is pure' illusion. Mr.
Norman Davis went to Brussels “with instructions not
to commit the United States to action against Japan.”
These instructions, it has been most definitely stated,
“will not be altered unless the complexion of the
international situation changes most unexpectedly.”
Unless the other nations have taken leave of their
senses, it is certain that their delegates have been
similarly instructed.
They have achieved, so far, a “solid front” against
Japan, produced a “draft declaration” of seven pages,
sweepingly refuted Japan’s defence, affirmed the neces-
sity for upholding the sanctity of treaties, weighed the
legalities of war in the abstract and agreed that they
must “consider what attitude they will take.” They
have also declared that “there is no legal justification
for violating another country’s territory to prevent the
spread of political doctrines” —“political doctrines” is
the conference euphemism for Communism —and have
added the opinion that “if Japan’s case were admitted,
it would lead to general anarchy.”
So many words; so much hot air and humbug.
As the Genevan brand of conference diplomacy suc-
ceeded only in consolidating the will of the Italian
people against the League, and thus making the con-
quest of Abyssinia certain, the Brussels variety has
only stung the Japanese into a stronger determination
to press on to the limit with the war in China.
While the hot-air chorus has been passing its
resolutions, the strength of the Japanese fighting
machine has been terribly demonstrated. It can be
written as certain that Japan will be victorious, no
matter what its ultimate objective in China may be.
No number of “invincible” diehard battalions of
Chinese, conjured up by “special correspondents,” will
alter that plain fact; neither will declarations, of
howsoever many pages, made by politicians at Brus-
sels. It may be shockingly unpalatable to accept this
—the lot of the refugee Chinese, defended by warriors
who are among the world’s worst, is horrible and
pitiful—but declining to face up to such facts, how-
ever harsh, is merely continuing under the cloud of
illusion which has been allowed to blur realities for
far too long.
The true position is, on the one hand, a power-
fully-armed military nation which has resorted to war
to decide an issue and will not be swayed from its
purpose by ten thousand “draft declarations” or “atti-
tudes,” and, on the other, the humbug of a chorus of
politicians, every one of whom knows, or should know
(Mr. Jordan, the “What’s-going-on-here?” police-
constable from Maoriland, may be an unsophisticated
exception), that the alternatives to their conference
diplomacy are a sheaf of futile gestures or war.
Even if such a war could be confined to China
its outcome would still be doubtful. But in the jittery
state of the world there would be no hope of so
restricting it.
Bluntly, the issue that has to be faced is that
war on behalf of China means world war. Therefore,
futile gestures are as good as certain to be the whole
crop at Brussels.
The official statement issued by the Japanese
Government in declining the invitation to the con-
ference needs considering by everybody who prefers
facing realities. One of Japan’s grounds for declining
was its distrust, based on past experience, of confer-
ence diplomacy. Japan insists that, as most partici-
pants in the conference would hold themselves bound
by the League’s resolutions against Japan at the time
of the Manchurian affair, when the League sent a
childlike commission, headed by a certain Lord
Lytton, woolgathering round the China Seas, “no fair
and just results could ever be expected therefrom.”
One of the important factors underlying Nanking’s
feverish agitations of recent years against Japan is the
action then taken by the League. That body adopted
a resolution framed in utter disregard of the realities of
the situation in East Asia, which strongly stimulated
China in its anti-Japanese policy. Now the League
has once more taken up the appeal of the Nanking
Government. Without going fully into the causes of
the present affair, it has adopted a resolution con-
demning Japan. It also adopted a resolution which
openly calls for assistance to China. It must be said
that the League of Nations is repeating the error that
it committed but a few years ago.
After insisting that Japan “does not harbor any
territorial designs in China,” the statement concludes:
It is Japan’s desire to promote cultural and eco-
nomic co-operation with foreign Powers regarding China,
while, at the same time, it will respect fully their
rights and interests there. Accordingly, so soon as the
Powers understand the true intentions of Japan, and
take suitable steps to make the Nanking Government
reconsider its attitude and policy, then, and only then,
a way will have been paved for their co-operation with
Japan respecting the settlement of the present conflict.
The Sydney “Morning Herald,” which foams at
the mouth when Hitler or Mussolini is mentioned,
admits that “Japan has a case.” It has evidently been
influenced by the reports of its well-informed special
correspondent, H. G. W. Woodhead, one of which
throws light on the mysterious capture and mysterious
release of Chiang Kai-shek by a Communist general,
who was mysteriously pardoned by Chiang:
It was understood that military operations against
the Reds would cease, on the basis of a common front
against alleged Japanese aggression. Since the outbreak
of the Sino-Japanese conflict the Red armies have been
formally incorporated in the National forces, and Com-
munist participation in the [Nanking] Government has
become a fact.
We may take such comfort as we can from
resolutions, condemnations and affirmations, though
in the long run such things the only outcome
of a score or more similar open-diplomacy confer-
ences—read as so much hot air. The truth is that
open diplomacy is pure humbug. It is part of the
League of Nations idea and as impractical—for any
other purposes except mischief-making—as the thing
it springs from. Since it became a party to it the
British Government has been on the side of one
futility after another.
If Brussels has demonstrated anything at all it
is the need for an even more strongly-armed and
closer-knit British Empire, standing firm on its own
feet. Not necessarily aloof from the world —an under-
standing with the United States is an obvious neces-
sity—but certainly not in the position of the world’s
busybody, expected to interfere—if only with a sheaf
of empty gestures—on behalf of every weak country
that has trouble inflicted on it or invites trouble.
Idiotic Licensing Laws.
The subjoined paragraphs appeared in the same issue
of Sydney’s leading daily. They exemplify two par-
ticularly stupid features of the N. S. Wales licensing
system, now in most respects the stupidest in Aus-
tralia.
The Licensing Court granted the transfer of the
license of the Limerick Castle Hotel, Smith and Ann
streets, Sydney to Bayswater-road and Penny’s-lane,
King’s Cross, the name to be changed to the Hampton
Court Hotel.
Mr. J. C. Thorne, chairman of the Wine
Grapes Marketing Board, who represented Murrum-
bidgee Irrigation Area winegrowers at the viticultural
conference in Melbourne, said on his return to Griffith
that he was more than ever convinced of the necessity
of calling a halt in the planting of wine grapes in Aus-
tralia. This view was endorsed by representative wine-
growers and winemakers in all quarters, especially
in S.A.
The N. S. Wales licensing system is a bad imita-
tion of the Victorian, even in the one respect in which
the Victorian system is noticeably behind the times—
six o’clock closing. But transfer of licenses is not per-
mitted in Victoria. There, when pubs have mani-
festly had their day, they are closed by order of an
efficient Court, compensation being awarded out of
a fund built up by the Trade —so much for the land-
lord and so much for the licensee.
In N. S. Wales, when parties interested in a pub
have no further use for it, they can look round for
a deserving person who might accept the license as a
gift. As population moves out of industrial districts,
which are generally overpubbed, and grows in resi-
dential neighborhoods like King’s Cross, there is no
lack of acceptors. Of course, transfers have to be
sanctioned in the Licensing Court, but that Court
apparently takes the view that, where a need has
arisen in the residential district and exists no longer
in the other place, it is in the general interest
that transfers should be made. And, beyond ques-
tion, there is a need for more modern hotels in some
residential parts of Sydney, but the community has
a right to expect that modern hotels should be built,
and that licenses should not pass from decayed taverns
to flats or the like in quarters where there are hotels
already. Hampton Court is a block of flats. It is
within biscuit-throw of two other licensed houses.
On the day on which “permission was given for
the removal of the license from the Limerick Castle
to Hampton Court,” £1 shares in Hampton Court
were quoted at 13s. 9d. buyer, 15s. 3d. seller. A week
later, on a dull market, there were sales at 17s.
Very nice for Hampton Court shareholders; but if the
journey from Smith-street to Penny’s-lane has made
the license worth five figures, as is apparently the
case, why shouldn’t the community get its cut if it
is not to have a new building? In a case involving
the transfer of a license to Katoomba, and in which
a company prospectus was issued, the value set on
the license at the end of the pilgrimage was £23,000.
The Government which permits traffic in licenses
is also responsible for the conditions under which
restriction of the planting of wine grapes is being
forced on growers. As hundreds of competent
foreigners have testified, Australia produces excellent
beverage wines, hock, chablis, claret, burgundy and
the like, and if they could be drunk at meals in
licensed restaurants, especially open-air restaurants,
there would be no more talk of reducing plantings or
pulling up vines—which has been done to a calami-
tous extent. On the contrary, there would be a steady
increase in production. Also the innovation would
very probably result in the creation of an intimate
class of restaurants like those which every Australian
who has visited France remembers with delight. Even
if they did not quite reach the French standard they
would be a vast improvement on tea-pie-and-roll and
gin-and-jazz joints. In any case, it would be better for
the health, as well as the social life, of the community
if the community went in more for well-cooked dishes
suited to the climate and for natural beverage wines
and less for heavy meat meals washed down by pints
of tea —that tea which is imported, chiefly from bad-
customer countries to the tune of 20,000 tons or so
per annum.
But restaurant-keepers are forbidden to supply
the good wines of the country, and, in N. S. Wales
especially, what should be a first-class industry
languishes.
An Experiment in Nutrition.
At Mt. Isa, a prosperous mining town, 600 miles west
of Townsville (N.Q.), an unpremeditated, large-scale
experiment is in progress concerning the relative
effects on child-health of good and defective living con-
ditions and availability or otherwise of essential foods.
Two towns with an aggregate population of some
4000 people exist there, side by side. One was built
by the company owning the silver-lead mines which
support both with the deliberate purpose of provid-
ing suitable housing and community services—free
lighting, free water, free garbage removal, cheap ice
and community stores —for a working population in
a tropical inland climate. The other has just grown
up with no attempt at town-planning, social services
or amenities, excepting the only two pubs. Transport
access, wages, employment conditions and the rest are
identical.
In the course of a nutritional survey conducted
by an officer of the Federal Advisory Committee on
Nutrition, a careful scientific examination, with special
reference to malnutrition and its effects, was made
of the children, approximately equal in number and
of similar social extraction, who attend the two
schools which serve each side.
Of 124 children examined at the town school
44, or over 35 per cent., were found to suffer
from unsatisfactory nutrition. Fifteen had nutri-
tional anaemia, 21 active rickets, in two there were
bone defects as a result of old rickets, and five suf-
fered from chronic septic infections ascribable to mal-
nutrition. One was undiagnosed/ Diet returns were
obtained from 42 families, comprising 79 town school-
children. For 14 of them, with 32 children, diet was
inadequate, and of these 26 children, or 81 per cent.,
were obviously undernourished. This proportion was
12 times greater than that amongst families whose
diet was classed as satisfactory.
At the mines school 116 children were examined,
of whom 22, or 19 per cent., were undernourished.
Nutritional antemia accounted for four, 12 had active
rickets, four old rickets (all 16 among recently-arrived
families), and two chronic septic Diet
returns for 37 families, representing 71 children, were
satisfactory for 33, representing 64 children. Among
these 64 only two (3 per cent.) were undernourished.
Of the remaining four families the seven children
showed two undernourished, or 28 per cent.
The Mt. Isa experiment affords only one example
of the serious malnutrition under which thousands
of Australian children suffer, particularly in the far-
inland areas. Undernourishment and rickets are
frequent also in western N. S. Wales and in South
Australia. It is not a problem to be solved by airy
political promises of milk for schoolchildren,* such
as Mr. Lyons voiced recently. Its roots lie far
deeper.
Health missions, not charity milk supplies, offer
infinitely better value for any money which Mr.
Lyons/ or anyone else for that matter, is willing to
provide. The problem is mainly one of overcoming
ignorance .and inertia, of publicising elementary nutri-
tional knowledge, of inspiring, encouraging and assist-
ing every genuine effort, whether of an individual, a
society, a religious body, a town, a State or the Aus-
tralian Commonwealth itself, towards securing the
nutritional betterment of growing children. It is not
merely a problem of the outback. Every big city
hospital is all-too-familiar with the undernourished
child. But outback mothers have no such advantage
of readily accessible advice, and there are no milk-
and fruit-shops just round the next corner.
Such health missions as the Bush Children Scheme
in Queensland and the Far West Children’s Health
Scheme in N. S. Wales are already doing valuable
work. With more money they could make it still
more valuable. The problem must be attacked in the
individual families from which the children come,
preferably by a system of visiting nurses, trained both
in nutritional work and in the sociology and psycho-
logy of the outback mother. If, instead of catch-vote
suggestions about free milk, Mr. Lyons were to come
out with a plain statement of the position, with a well-
considered plan for dealing with it on a financial
basis, he would be doing good work for the country.
The Federal Advisory Committee on Nutrition could
provide the plan for the asking from the information
already at its disposal.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Christmas "Bulletin."
The next issue of The Bulletin will be the Christmas
Bulletin. It will consist of 76 pages, and there will
be full-page drawings in color by Norman Lindsay,
Scorfield and Unk White, as well as representative
work by other Bulletin artists.
Australians have had good cause to admire the
quality of the stories written of late years in
Westralia. Nothing better of its kind has come out
of that State than “Short-Shift Saturday,” Gavin S.
Casey’s contribution to the Christmas Bulletin. The
Durack girls, authors of All-About and Chunuma,
have more charming sketches of North Westralian
station-abo. life. J. B. Blair, Albert Dorrington, J. H.
M. Abbott, Steve Bennett and James Hackston
are among the other spinners of yarns, nearly all of
which are illustrated.
Stories, drawings, verse and paragraphs are all
original and paid for at Australian rates. Not a line
of syndicated stuff will appear in the Christmas
Bulletin. If this is held to be a disadvantage, The
Bulletin can’t help it.
A Census on the Cheap.
It is reported from the U.S.A. that the unemployed
have been engaged on a Voluntary census. At the
same time N. S. Wales wage-payers have been taking
an involuntary census of persons in their employ.
Their State Government having decided upon
a pre-election reduction of one of the income-taxes it
imposes, and being anxious to distribute the boon
among the greatest number of voters, N. S. Wales
wage-payers have been ordered to get a signed state-
ment of the condition of every person on the payroll,
with the name of his wife, if married, the names of
dependent children and so on. According to the infor-
mation supplied, the taxes of employees —not em-
ployers—will be readjusted, and the employers will
then be bound, under heavy penalties, to collect them,
as they collected the statistics, free of cost to the
Government.
In places where hatred of the boss has been
preached as a sacred duty, this inquisition is bound
to be resented. In industries regulated by arbitration
awards and others in which labor is seasonal, there
are other difficulties. Graziers, for instance, protest
that so little time is allowed for the payment of
pastoral hands after shearing that it will be almost
impossible to collect the required data. But their
industry works under a Commonwealth award, and
latest ultimatum is presented by a State, so they will
have to serve their two masters somehow or take it
the neck.
The tax which is the subject of the involuntary
census is one of the “emergency” taxes imposed by
the five State Governments —on gross income, for
the most part —though they say themselves that the
emergency has passed. They impose “ordinary”
income taxes, too —there are six “ordinary” income
taxes. There is also a Commonwealth income tax.
Many Australians and nearly all employers pay
at least three income taxes. Sir Charles Belcher, a
Victorian who has served with distinction in judicial
posts abroad —he has been Chief Justice of Cyprus,
and has sat on appeal courts in Egypt and East
Africa —found, on returning to settle, that it would
mean being scourged with taxes of which he had
had no conception when he decided that he would
spend the evening of his days in Victoria. So he is
not going to stay.
If things were well ordered—that is to say, if taxa-
tion were a reputable business divorced from legal-
ised robbery —there would be one income tax in Aus-
tralia and one only. The States’ emergency taxes
would disappear. Their “ordinary” taxes are really
levied to pay the Australian education bill; the Com-
monwealth could take over education, and State
income taxation with it. Unfortunately Common-
wealth politicians are indifferent to unifying of taxes,
and State politicians see in it a threat to their useless
trade.
The Wool Position.
The history of the 1936-37 wool season so far is some-
thing of a puzzle. At the beginning it looked as if
prices per pound and aggregate return would make
records. Japan, out of the market last season until
after Christmas, was pledged under agreement to buy
500,000 bales, and the British Overseas Trade Depart-
ment noted that “stocks in most European countries”
were “light.”
Tops prices when the season opened were on the
basis of 40d. for 64’s, merino warp. They were justi-
fied at the first sale, when wool of this quality was
sold to make 39d. and tops. But thenceforward
there was reluctance to buy on the part of countries —
the U.S.A. among them —which, because of the level
of their stocks, had been looked on as likely to buy
heavily. Japan was out of the market, and is now
in it only to a small extent.
Within a fortnight of the opening, prices were
down 4d. a pound on the first sales. The average
to the end of October was 13.8 d.; but in November,
with the Japanese again only picking at the market,
and with a poorer average of wool, there was a further
fall to 13.1 d. London sales on November 16 showed
a decline in merino prices of from 15 to 20 per cent.,
and in medium crossbred lines of from 20 to 25 per
cent., this despite the fact that competition remained
good.
Meanwhile Dawson and Co., a British firm,
issued a doleful statement embodying a report that
the Japanese Foreign Minister had decided to restrict
wool imports from all sources to 450,000 bales. For
this information there seems to be no official backing
as yet. Dawsons suggest that a difficult future con-
fronts the crossbred trade.
These cables and London results did not imme-
diately depress the Sydney market. Competition was
keen for good wools, Yorkshire and the Continent
buying steadily, and sometimes eagerly ; but inferior
lines were weak and erratic.
Seemingly, the Commonwealth Government does
not know Japan’s plans under the trade agreement.
But it takes only half an eye to see that Japan must
soon have wool, having regard to its present small
holdings. Europe must have wool, too. But some
countries have evidently decided to buy sparingly,
using the position caused by the Japanese shortage
to let the market slump before replenishing their
stores.
The U.K. Overseas Trade Bulletin says that the
fall in the prices of some other commodities was
responsible for a “temporary loss of confidence” in
the wool business.
But behind it all was a feeling of satisfaction that
the decline had come at a time when stocks in the
hands of the trade were unusually light....lt altered
the outlook from a price point of view in every section
of the industry, and was no doubt responsible for a
good deal of delay in placing business in semi- and fully-
manufactured goods.
On the present statistical information, it would
seem certain that Japan, in common with other coun-
tries, must buy more heavily in the new year, and
that prices at worst will not fall below the present
levels, which would mean that the clip should be
worth around £50,000,000.
Libraries Are Not "Works."
The trustees of the N. S. Wales Public Library describe
the building, in which their collection of books is
housed as a “disgrace to the city and the State.”
They have never before expressed themselves so
vigorously, but they have been long-suffering.
Books are crowded into galleries and basements
so closely that officials can scarcely move between
the rows. The research reading-room consists of a
tiny recess in which only two persons can work un-
comfortably at a time. The research and information
department, which is appealed to every day to under-
take large-scale inquiries for commercial firms and
public bodies, and which does its job well, is packed
into one small room.
Indexes are out of date in many matters, because
it is impossible to attend adequately to indexing. The
two small public reading-rooms are so congested round
their out-of-date tables that few genuine students
bother to use them. They are the resort of the idle
rather than centres of study. For university students
and others who haunt libraries of big European and
U.S.A. cities there are no facilities whatever beyond
bottles of ink.
Latterly, too, the supply of new books has had
to be skimped. Books and exchange have both tended
to make library material dearer. Yet the Library
grant is 20 per cent, less than the institution received
in 1899 for additions to its shelves.
The Mitchell Library is in a plight almost as
bad. Since it was founded 30 years ago original docu-
ments, books, papers, pictures and relics have been
poured into it by purchase and benefaction. In present
.circumst'ances it is hopeless to expect its staff to deal
with a quarter of them.
There has been great talk in Government circles
for years about the construction of a new building
to embody the present Mitchell building with a new
public library under the same roof.
Plans have been prepared, and a little clearing
has been done. But after getting that far the N. S.
Wales Government poked its head back into the world
of sewers which bounds its vision of constructional
development—returned to its perennial task of con-
verting the surface of the State into a network of
cement pipes, pavements and highways, cultural acti-
vities being beyond it.
Costs Up, Employment Down.
From Britain, the United States and France have come
reports of industrial difficulty in the shape of increas-
ing costs. Of the three, the Old Country so far is
the least worried ; it has neither a New Deal Admin-
istration, “priming the pump with public money,” nor
a Government of socialists experimenting with a 40-
hour week.
Nevertheless, Britain knows the danger of increas-
ing costs. Over a year the cost of living has risen
about 6 per cent., and with the lift in raw-material
prices the “apparent adverse balance of trade” (so
called because of shipping, investment, etc., earnings
which aren’t “apparent”) has shown an increase. Of
course, with rearmament going on at a greater rate
such things may not be entirely unexpected. But
financiers and investors watch these things, and one
result is that industrial share prices in London now
average between 10 and 15 per cent, below quotations
of a year ago.
Early this year there were people in Australia
shouting “Hooray! ” and ready to overload the future
with higher prices, higher wages, higher costs, higher
everything. The building trade was feeling fit, and
builders’ suppliers added something extra for profit.
And a young economist, Mr. Reddaway, made his
appearance as a witness in the Federal Arbitration
Court. “A rise in real wages now,” said Mr. Redda-
way, “would be extremely valuable as a restraining
influence on both the price of existing capital assets
and the excessive construction of new ones.”
So to lift real wages a startlingly big rise in
money wages was granted. Now wool that last year
averaged 16|d. is selling below 13d., wheat is down
about eightpence a bushel, and metal prices have been
cut in halves. If this goes on we will need no “re-
straining influences” to keep building and other ven-
tures down. Sharemarkets are shaky, and investors
are scuttling towards Consols and fixed deposits.
Prices have a habit of falling by themselves. It
calls for genius to bring wages and other costs into
line without unrest and unemployment. We have a
clear lesson from overseas right now ; for everybody’s
benefit costs and other figures should be kept as low
as possible, and industry given every chance of keep-
ing employment up.
Progress and Stagnation.
It is a dull week which does not hang another cobweb
on Australia’s official aerial organisation. Last week
brought a report from London that little advance
has been made in the negotiations for the trans-
Tasman air service.
Australia, which is now accustomed to the back-
wardness of its Government in aerial matters, received
the news with a resigned sigh. Thousands who posted
their Christmas mail by water last week may feel a
little warmer on the subject when they reflect that
people in Capetown, Singapore and Hong Kong can
send letters to London by air at per half-ounce
and packets at 3s. per pound (that is the maxi-
mum). Australians who feel that they must indulge
in this “luxury” pay Is. 6d. per half-ounce for letters
and packets.
There is no promise that Australian rates ever
will be reduced to compare with those ruling in the
rest of the British Commonwealth. After nearly two
years’ wrangling, the date for the arrival of the first
of the British flying-boats is still indefinite. Imperial
Airways refuses to send an experimental vessel until
some progress has been made with the construction
of bases which have not even been commenced.
Australia and Maoriland thus become the last
civilised parts of the world to be linked up to other
continents with modern, fast, large ’planes. The
Pan-American services run the whole civilised length
of the North American coastline. Little Bermuda
is linked by first-class 20-passenger machines to New
York. Landing-grounds for the London-Newfound-
land services have been completed and experimental
flights made.
Flying-boat services from London to India and
Capetown are in operation—the crack pilot who
pioneered the latter service is, ironically enough, an
Australian, Captain Bennett. The Dutch are using
modern Douglas machines on the Amsterdam-Java
run.
Internally, that part of Australian flying which
depends on private enterprise solely for its develop-
ment is going ahead by leaps and bounds. The
Douglas C 3 Kyilla—complement, at maximum, 23
passengers, plus crew of three—which is to make a
double return journey from Sydney to Brisbane every
day, has flown from Perth to Melbourne, 1840 miles,
in 11 hours, with two stops on the way. A Lockheed
bought by Broken Hill Prop, which normally cruises
at 212 m.p.h. did the journey from Melbourne to
Newcastle (N.S.W.), in 2\ hours.
The aerial mail ’planes in use on the Singapore
run carry no more passengers than the B.H.P.’s
machine and have a normal cruising speed 70 m.p.h.
less.
Our inter-capital services are not far below the
best U.S.A. services in speed and comfort, and are
better in these respects than most of the European
services.
Their only weakness lies in landing-grounds and
beaconing of routes. Those, however, are the concern
of Governments, and particularly of the Common-
wealth Government. Australian airmen are among
the world’s best. Australian aerodromes are the
world’s worst.
"The Whirligig of Time...."
“Chandu”: It is gratifying to read that the parties
to the Brussels Conference have expressed their abhor-
rence of interference by force in the domestic policies of
other countries. Interference by intrigue, designed to
promote civil war, has been actively practised by one
of said parties for 20 years, and mechanical aids to
force are provided wherever practicable. As for
certain of the other parties, history has a tale to tell.
Nearly a hundred years ago the Chinese Govern-
ment banned the importation of opium, which was
demoralising the nation. The trade was mostly in
the hands of British companies, which got the stuff
from India. These companies, and those of other
nations, established depot ships at Canton and other
ports, and the poison was sold wholesale to Chinese
dealers, who smuggled it ashore.
The Chinese Government at last asked the British
Government to do away with the depot ships. The
request having been refused, the Chinese Government
seized and destroyed two million pounds’ worth of
the contrabrand drug. The British Government there-
upon interfered in the domestic policy of China,
killed a lot of Chinese, and extracted an indemnity
of 21,000,000 dollars. Hong Kong was ceded to the
victors in perpetuity.
A few years later the U.S. Government decided
that a primary plank of Japanese domestic policy, the
exclusion of Europeans and all their works, called for
revision. A U.S. squadron forced its way into
Yeddo Harbor and put the Yankee case before the
Nipponese authorities. ,It made such a display of
armed force that, after consideration, the Japanese
were obliged to admit that the American argument was
hard to refute and reluctantly threw open certain
ports. Britain, France and Russia fell over them-
selves to share in the good thing, and a lesson was
impressed on the Japanese the principles of which
they are now applying to China.
So were hatched the chickens which have come
home to roost at Shanghai in such unpleasant fashion.


Society
"AND ITS PRINTED WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Ex-Bull”: The panicky share-dealings
on N’York Stock Exchange of late re-
mind me. A director of an Australian
co. with money to invest called on a
Wall-street broker about the time Lang
was being turned out to grass in N. S.
Wales. The Australian’s first impression
of Uncle Sam’s greatest city had been
the number of “To Let” notices and
closing-down sales; but his exes, had
been paid to inquire about the best “com-
mon stocks” available in the States, and
to the broker he put the question. “You’re
askin’ me, boy?” the Wall-street man
said. “Say, I hate to tell you, but
right now I’ve got my dahlars tied up in
Commonwealth bahnds. Yes, sir.
Bought ’em at 60 and now they’re 85.
I guess you’ve come to the wrong
Gahdam country ; better go back home.”
Just at the moment, too, there are a lot
of Australians who wish they’d never
heard of Bethlehem Steel or Anaconda
Cahpper cahmon stahck.
* * * *
“Mosstrooper”: An agitation is afoot
in Whiskyland to have the embalmed
body of Bothwell, the last husband of
Mary Queen of Scots, brought back to
Scotland from the church in Denmark,
where it is kept under glass as a sort of
peep-show. The head of the Hepburns
was rated by contemporary historians as
the primest blackguard of the turbulent
Border lords. He has survived as a
blot on Scottish history, and what is to
be gained by bringing his corpse back
save as a shocking example is not easy
to discover. In his later years he earned
the reputation of a bloody and ruthless
pirate, and it was while imprisoned in
Denmark for some of his performances
that he died.
* * * *
“Adelaide”: An Adelaide tram-car ran
over a 9ft. length of thin metal piping,
which was picked up by the wheels and
forced through the flooring, after which
nearly 12in. of it speared the calf of an
elderly woman passenger’s leg. As the
other end of it was tangled in the under-
carriage, the pipe had to be sawn through
on the spot before she could be moved
to hospital. But it missed the bone, and
the wound is likely to be no more than
painful.
* =H * *
“Mudurup”: It wasn’t Harry Gregory,
now M.H.R., who installed the first State
battery on the Westralian goldfields (B.
10/11/ ’37). Gregory didn’t arrive as
Minister for Mines until 1901, and there
were several State batteries running long
before that. The credit goes to a pre-
decessor of Gregory’s, the late Edward
Wittenoom, whose subsequent “ten-foot”
regulation against alluvial diggers made
him so unpopular on the fields. Witte-
noom went to London as Agent-General
in ’9B, but Lefroy had more batteries
opened before the Forrest regime ended.
The centres chosen weren’t always as
grateful as they might have been. I recall
a plant at Yalgoo christened “Witte-
noom’s coffee-mill” because it had only
five head of stamps.
* * * *
“D.E.”: In a dense fog a Junker ’plane
flying to London for the wedding of
Prince Ludwig of Hesse to a daughter of
Sir Auckland Geddes, who was one of
Lloyd George’s Ministers and afterwards
ambassador to the U.S.A., cannoned
against a brickyard chimney at Ostend,
and the world’s most tragic family was
nearly wiped out in the crash. Among
the 11 dead were the Grand Duke
Georges of Hesse, his wife, his mother,
his two small sons, a third child born pre-
maturely as the ’plane crashed, the Grand
Duchess’s maid and a baron who was
to have been best man at the wedding.
The Grand Duke’s father, a grandson of
Queen Victoria, had died only a month
before. One of his sisters was the Em-
press of Russia who, with the Emperor,
their crippled son, their four daughters
“Mrs. Jones has insisted on his dressing like that ever since they moved
into their Spanish bungalow .”
and the Empress’s sister, were butchered
by the Bolsheviks in 1918. That same
year the Grand Duchy of Hesse was
abolished by the German revolutionaries,
though the ducal estates have since been
handed back. An ancestor of the dead
Grand Duke backed Austria in 1866, and
had to cede part of his territory to Prus-
sia. A remoter ancestor hired soldiers
to George the Third and made a good
profit on the transaction. They were
the hated Hessians whom Washington’s
soldiers had to fight.
* * * *
“Cauboy”: Fortuna, the Bendigo
(Vic.) home which Melbourne stock-
broker Dyason has offered to the- State
as an after-care clinic for I.P. sufferers,
was built by George Lansell, one-time
famous in mining circles, so he
could see from his windows his stampers
at work and be lulled to sleep by
the uproar of the batteries. He sur-
rounded it with lawns, artificial lakes and
shrubberies, and copies of Greek statu-
ary peered between the leaves at the
diggers at work. It has 40 rooms.
* * * *
“J[amwood”: “In full view of scores of
passers-by,” as my morning paper puts
it, one gentleman put a bullet through
another, “at the intersection of Park-
street and Castlereagh-street, Sydney,” on
Thursday afternoon. “Why, it’s Clarrie
Thomas,” said the policemen who rushed
up. Then they were told that there had
been a brawl, which resulted in a visit to
Sydney Hospital, and that in the sequel
Clarrie had been seen to “place a hand
in one of his pockets” ; but the other
party was first. Clarrie was an “habitual”
who got religion, and spoke from the
pulpit of a sympathetic parson. When
his protege was run in for “consorting”
the rev. gentleman defended him pas-
sionately, and Clarrie was released on a
bond. The funeral took place exactly a
week later. Talleyrand’s advice to young
diplomats could be usefully adapted to
the cases of clergymen and politicians
brought in touch with the criminal
classes: “Above all things, gentlemen, no
sentiment”!
* * * *
“Ragus”: Older than the property of
the Weedings (B. 10/11/’37) is Heywood,
Baulkham Hills (N.S.W.), which is
owned by a direct descendant of the
George Acres to whom it was granted
by Sir Thomas Brisbane in 1821. In
July of this year it passed to the fourth
generation of the same name. Among
the descendants of George Acres are
S. Aus. Premier Butler, Dr. Henry
Simpson Newland—a knight to whom a
title was never begrudged—and ex-
Registrar-General Layton.
“M 8”: Another old estate is The Dip,
Gunnedah, owned by J. B. Clift. Grand-
father Samuel Clift was the fourth white
over Mount York in 1829 ; he took up
what became known as Breeza, and most
of the country thereabouts has been in
Clift hands ever since. J.B.’s sons, W.A.
and Arthur, are carrying on to-day.
* * * *
“Oxmead”: A recent cable mentioned
that gout, which was cut down to a
minimum in the depression years, had
shown a marked increase in Britain since
prosperity returned. The old popular
idea about gout was that the constant
absorption of port wine was the main
cause of it, though some victims blamed
their fathers and grandfathers rather
than themselves. I don’t know if modern
medical opinion still holds the tipple re-
sponsible, but I doubt it. Apropos, there
was a prominent Westralian Labor
M.L.A. some 30 years ago who com-
plained of gout. Somebody pointed out
that there was something incongruous in
a rugged democrat —an ex-shearer and
ex-miner at that —admitting to a disease
traditionally associated with luxury and
the more or less idle rich. He grinned
appreciatively and altered his infirmity to
rheumatism or, as he termed it, “the
screws.”
* * * *
“Bob Punter”: As a freakish accident
chance in a million, I nominate the case
of one of the best-known doctors of the
A.I.F. His four years of war took in
Gallip., France and elsewhere, and
nothing happened to him. In Sydney
the other night, sitting reading a
book on Italy’s conquest of Abys-
sinia, he felt that one of his crossed
legs was asleep. Getting up and walking
round the room to wake the leg up, he
suddenly stopped with a sharp pain in
the foot. Two bones had been broken
wholly by muscular action. Evidently
one lot of muscles had suddenly woken
up and acted, while those that would
normally have counteracted them were
still out of action. And that alone broke
the bones.
* * * *
“Nakhoda”: A motor-accident casu-
alty who turned up at a Melbourne hos-
pital recently was found to have tattooed
on his back the Crucifixion, on his chest
a ship in full sail, on his upper arm an-
other, on each thigh the portrait of a
woman, on one hip a lion, on the other
a tiger, wreaths of flowers on the wrists
and ankles and rings on his fingers.
There was not a square inch of him
except the face that had not had the at-
tention of the needle. One of the few
remaining tattooers in Melbourne has
two queues of men and women waiting
on Friday evenings. The members of
the one have come to be embellished
with roses and anchors, the others to get
their indiscretions removed, because their
girls or their young men don’t like it.
* * * *
“Curate’s Egg”: Freelance friends in
trouble (B. 10/11/’37)? Mine struck
most dodging landlords. “Cripes,” he
told me just after a series of moves,
“every time a furniture van passes the
house the fowls lie down and poke their
legs up in the air ready for tying.”
* * * Hi
“Fong Tsz”: The prize for the most
striking war news this month goes to the
Sydney “D.T.,” which records airily that
“Soochow, to the north of Shanghai, has
been destroyed by an air raid.” How-
ever, part of the booty should be handed
to Granny “Herald,” since she shares the
delusion that the village holds 1,000,000
people. All handbooks agree that Soo-
chow’s population is 260,000.
When infantile paralysis
appeared in Tasmania recently arrange-
ments were made for an official press
statement, giving the exact position re-
garding the epidemic, free from sensa-
tional trimmings, to be issued daily by
the Health Department. With the co-
operation of the local press, the matter
is being treated in its right perspective.
* * * *
“M.R.P.”: That Melbourne telephone
of 1878 (B. 10/11/’37) was not the first
in Australia. The previous year a pair
of ’phones invented by American
Graham Bell were installed on the Wal-
laroo Mines, S.A., for inter-office com-
munications. They had a single instru-
ment for both speaker and receiver at-
tached to a board, and the operator had
to stand full-face to talk into it, and swivel
about to get his ear to the machine for
the reply. In 1927 the Kyancutta Museum
added the contraption to its collection,
together with the first microphone trans-
mitter to be used here, also a relic of
the mines.
t- * * *
“L. de R.”: Probably the vaguest
reason for a treasure hunt on record is
that which has started a syndicate on ex-
tensive operations at Queenscliff (Vic.).
A diviner found indications of a cave
below low-water mark under the high
cliff which fronts the bay in that locality,
and traced with his rod the outline of
an image believed to occupy the cave. A
diver was engaged, and, true enough, the
cave was there. It took six months to
sink a shaft, down which the diver slips
in order to enter the cave. What he has
found has not yet been divulged, but it
is believed that the celebrated pirate,
Benito Bonito, used the cave to cache
the jewels, treasure and images he looted
from the churches of Lima, Peru, at the
end of the eighteenth century. The only
link lacking in the chain of evidence is
any indication that he ever set his foot
on a skerrick of Australian soil.
A WORD TO THE WINSOME.
“If you value your feminine attractions, your soft
contours and schoolgirl complexion, don’t go in for
strenuous sports that develop the muscles into ugly
bulges and contort the face into unlovely grimaces.”
—Writer in “S. M. Herald.”
You buds and blooms of womankind,
You Phyllises and Trixies,
Your fairy forms were ne’er designed
For grimly tugging, oars behind,
Or slogging lusty sixes.
This Amazonian racket serves
To lessen the affections
Ensured by gracious, graceful curves
And rose-and-cream complexions.
Tennis in reason you may play,
But, here’s advice that’s candid,
Avoid the Wembledonian way,
Don’t (even if you could) essay
The leaps and bounds Suzanne did.
Such antics, void of charm and grace,
May very well repel beaux.
For glowing damsels “tennis face”
Is worse than “tennis elbow.”
To greens where lordly golfers strut
You may of course repair
And gaily drive and loft and putt,
For golf at best is nothing but
A leisurely affair.
But shun the stress and sweat and strain
Of fiercer exercises.
Better your beauty to retain
Than win Olympic prizes.
Swim, an you will, e’en Dover’s Straits,
But leave to brother man'
The job of tossing heavy weights
Or wresting victory from his mates
At sprints along the tan.
Our sense of comme il faut it jars,
It sets one’s blood a-curdling
The thought of Helen leaping bars
Or Cleopatra hurdling.-
You Dians, never look so glum
At being warned to banish
Those sports from your curriculum
That tend to make a maid become
Essentially mannish.
Reflect, though now it seems a mere
Outmoded game and poky,
Your grandmas never had to fear
Their comeliness would disappear
When they lined up —for croquet.
N.SW.
T. THE R.


“Chevroford”: Victoria’s new Sydney
express, Spirit of Progress, the baby of
the Newport workshops, had its trial run
the other day. The monster is not merely
streamlined —it is a single unit from bow
to stern, giving the impression of a
gigantic cutting tool with a tremendous
nose and a tapering handle. There are
no funnels, steam dome, nor exterior
machinery ; all is as smooth as the sides
of a destroyer. The drivers can touch
70 m.p.h., and the guard sits in a com-
fortable chair in the sternsheets of the
monster and watches the signals ahead
through a periscope which runs the whole
length of the train. The observation-car
looks like a Toorak drawing-room, and
shielded lights, padded seats and pile
carpets in the dining-room and compart-
ments reduce vibration to a minimum.
Air-conditioning is extended even to
double glasses on the wide windows, and
noise, heat, cold, dust and flies are elimi-
nated. The largest business undertaking
in the State put forth its greatest effort
to make the thing as much an Austra-
lian product as was possible, and the
whole country was levied on for material.
The panels of Australian wood ran into
thousands.
* ‘ * * *
“Brix”: A motorist, speeding into our
town at dusk, collided with a pedestrian,
“Keep cool , Blondie —coming right over!"
pulled ug, and ran back to see what
damage he’d done. A small crowd had
collected, and the victim was seated
under a tree broadcasting his views on
motorists with force and profanity,
“Here,” said the motorist, producing two
shillings and offering it to a near-by
youth, “run and get the policeman,
There’s going to be some unpleasantness
over this, and I don’t want to be mis-
represented.” The youth viewed the
proffered coin without moving. “You
have a word with the policeman right
away, mister,” he advised. “That’s him
you knocked over!”
* * * *
“Nakhoda”: The outbreak of malaria
which killed an officer and a seaman and
went like a bushfire through the crew of
the Trefusis, en route from Dakar, S.
Africa, to Perth, shows what the ano-
pheles mosquito can do. Serious
scourges seldom occur among natives
where malaria is endemic, because the
babies have it in a mild form almost as
a heritage. But when a district has been
healthy for a long time a single '‘carrier”
can affect an entire community. I was on
a Bornean island which prided itself on
its immunity. One day we greeted a new
colleague, and the celebrations lasted
several days. Within a month all but
four of the 17 of us whites were malaria-
stricken, and the fever manifested itself
in ways that had not been known in
those parts before. Our new col-
league had brought the curse all the way
from the African Gold Coast.
* * * *
“Ellenvale”: This is a new one. Our
suburban garageman has altered his sign-
board to read: “Lubricatorium.”
* * * *
“Bohemian”: “Coot” (B. 27/10/’37)
reminds me that our local rag for a
long time carried an ad.—
Mrs. E.
“Qualified Midwife.”
Mrs. guarantees that she has had 18
Perhaps the comps, dropped “years’ ex-
perience.” Or perhaps the advertisement
really meant what it stated.
4 * * #
“Jayem”: Two sorry-looking indivi-
duals, both swathed in bandages, were
included in the Monday-morning parade
at our police court. Asked the reason,
the first to state his case said: “It
was this way, your Worship. He
threw his beer over me, then I donged
him across the face with the bag of tools
I was carrying. Then he cut my head
open with a bottle, and the next thing
we knew we were quarrelling.”
* * * *
“Lao-dah”: The water-tower in the
French Concession where Pembroke
Stephen, the correspondent of London
“Daily Telegraph,” was killed by
machine-gun fire during the bombard-
ment of Nantao was the favorite
position for foreign residents watching
the shindies which have periodically
diversified life in the great Eurasian
mart. It was always a highly-dangerous
spot to do one’s sightseeing, even when
the Chinese were throwing obsolete
European munitions at one another ; but
under the conditions . now prevailing
it was sheer suicide. Chinese marks-
manship is better now that it used
to be, but even in the early days of the
Revolution the bullets that found billets
in the foreign territory were not stray
shots by any means. There used to be
on the Nanking-road a huge poster in
colored lights depicting a Chinese gentle-
man slowly lifting a cigarette to his lips
and then exhaling a puff of smoke, while
the cigarette-end glowed momentarily.
During one of the rebel outbreaks a
shell neatly put the glowing ash out, a
second knocked the smoker’s hat off and
a third brought the whole erection down
in ruins.
* * * *
“T ” . daylight-saving cranks are
at it again in Sydney. They think they
I Delighted to find your fiancee such a sensible girl , my dear boy"
can get more cricket and surfing by put-
ting clocks on an hour, and they have
induced people who might be expected
to know better to support them. Their
nostrum was tried in Australia in 1917.
After a brief but sufficient experience
there was such a roar of protest from
tropical and sub-tropical pa'rts of the
continent that Billy Hughes—he, of
course, was Prime Minister then—
dropped it, and there will be no rever-
sion to the nostrum if he has any author-
ity. Daylight-saving has some obvious
advantages in countries where the days
are short and the nights long and dreary.
In countries like Australia it is a wash-
out.
* * * *
“C.Q.”: According to the “Argus,”
fatality hangs over the neighborhood
whence came Demsey, the truck-driver
who was murdered near Kyneton (Vic.).
In the three-acre paddock where he was
born are 12 houses, and of the residents
one, a girl, fell from a buggy and was
killed ; a youth next door was a victim of
the Sunshine railway smash; a young
man was killed by revolving belting ; a
Sydney tram accounted for another ; two
men were smothered in mine disasters ;
one was drowned in the Murray and
another in a local dam. Drownings,
shunting fatalities, burnings and a suffo-
cation disposed of neighbors a little
further apart. Sinister as this list appears,
one cannot help wondering whether
many another district couldn’t tell
much the same tale if its history were in-
vestigated over a sufficiently long period.
If I were superstitious I would find it
difficult to sleep at nights, for in the
street in which I was born there are only
three houses not known to have been
connected with a fatality within the last
half-century.
* * * *
“Dominie”: I doubt whether that
exam, question (B. 3/11/’37) —“How do
Governments secure the money necessary
for carrying out their duties?” —was
really more suited to fathers. Two
answers I read were: “By taxing every-
thing” and “From England.”
* * * *
“Oran”: Evidence in a bigamy case
revealed that the husband unwittingly
moved with his second “wife” next door
to the house occupied by his legal missus.
Trouble followed, and the husband, over-
come by this deal from Fate, sought the
nearest police station and made a clean
breast. Not long ago a man seeking un-
successfully for his runaway wife had
actually given up hope of finding her
when he went into a small shop and
met there a young woman, a recent ac-
quaintance. She was out buying the
afternoon-tea for the couple who flatted
next door to her, and invited him to
come along and meet the crowd. He
went. One glance established the iden-
tity of the couple, and in the ensuing
upheaval the afternoon-tea was entirely
overlooked.
* * * *
“Shanghai”: Proprietor for a long
time of the Bath Arms Hotel (B.
10 /11/ ’37) in Parramatta-road, Burwood
(N.S.W.), was one Burwood Neich. He’s
commemorated in Neich-parade and pre-
sumably in the name of the suburb itself.
* .-it *
“Salmon Gums”: “The Portuguese,”
says “Physician” (B. 20/10/’37), “were
biddable patients.” It’s a happy word.
You can’t replace it in “Physician’s” sen-
tence without losing something—
“ Obedient” suggests compulsion, “duti-
ful” is in cynical disgrace, and doesn’t
mean the same thing anyway. I hadn’t
encountered it for years until that par.
revived memories of an old dad who
delighted in the possession of a biddable
dog.
THE INCUBUS.
“N.S.W. industrialist leaders, discussing the present
faction fight, pointed out that, far from finding
any fault with Mr. Curtin, they sympathised with
him for having to be associated with Mr. Lang in
the Federal elections.”
They had no word of discontent
Or peevishness to say
Against the estimable gent.
Who came from W.A.
Their chosen champion to be
In hustings biff and bang.
He did his best, they all agree—
And earned their heartfelt sympathy
In being linked with Lang.
He might have put them on the map
And given Lyons a bump
But for the heavy handicap
He was ordained to hump.
What use his burning words? What use
His masterly harangue?
It queered his pitch and cooked his goose
When he’d no chance of cutting loose
Or running free from Lang.
He may have felt as Sinbad erst
When from the sea there sprung
That ancient incubus accurst
And round his shoulders clung.
Black Care behind the horseman sits,
As shrewd old Horace sang;
And in this instance, one admits,
The hoary aphorism fits —
At Curtin’s back was Lang.
The tumult and the shoutings die,
The clatter and the clang;
But far and wide one hears the cry,
Aye, even from democracy:
The staunchest soul is tried too high
Who has to click with Lang.
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


20/<?rl 6
10 for 9*
WIBB4
All over the world Craven A
are appreciated for the
excellence of their quality.
CRAVENA
ARE MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS
m
CIGARETTE
THIS
G E N E R A T I
[XI
POLITICAL POINTS
Lang at a Victory Social —so-called
perhaps because Lang’s crowd was de-
feated by 16 seats in the House in which
Ministries are made and unmade: —-
This gathering to-night says that it wants
Curtin, Lang and Beasley to lead the
Labor movement.
Forde, who is deputy-leader of Federal
Labor and, as such, far more important
than Beasley, who holds no office, or
Lang, who is just one of six provincial
Labor leaders, was present at the Vic-
tory Social. He just swallowed and said
nothing.
Reconstruction of the Lyons Ministry,
which has lost Parkhill, Pearce and
Brennan and has been without the ailing
Paterson for months, has, according to
U.A.P. newspaper reports, been “inter-
rupted by an unforeseen and surprising
development” Page’s notification that
he would like to consult his party before
submitting names of Cockies. But surely
there was nothing surprising about that.
Lyons wants Thorby as Minister of
Defence and would like to keep McLach-
lan in the department where he takes his
instructions from Mr. Brown. The
public, for its part, has had enough of
McLachlan’s “arguments” for sky-high
postage, and if Thorby succeeds Park-
hill it will deal with him as it dealt with
that gentleman. Defence is a job for a
Digger.
One Powell, whom Major Douglas
sent to Alberta to advise Mr. Have-a-
heart how to produce the “national
dividend,” has been sentenced to six
months for defamatory libel and recom-
mended for deportation. This throws a
flood of light on the Major’s persistence
in absenting himself from Alberta. He’s
not going to be the mug.
Egg Marketing Boards are under fire
in two States. A deputation of hen-
valets implored Hyland, the Assistant
Minister of Agriculture, to abolish the
Victorian board, saying that it was taking
£260,000 a year from them in levies, and
all they got was reduced income from
eggs. In the Sydney Parliament, Bate,
from the South Coast, said that the
N.S.W. board had cost the feather-
squatting industry “hundreds of thou-
sands of pounds,” and that the feather-
squatters had chucked their representa-
tives off it as a sign they didn’t want a
board, but the Government had re-
appointed its two members. Still, what
did Bate expect? Stevens and co. would
be lost if they couldn’t lean on boards.
Stevens went up to Ballina the other
day and wailed that “for two years we
have had to resist strenuously the ten-
dency to impose upon us as States an
excessive caution in our investment in
public works.” This is rich, considering
that Stevens has spent £35,000,000 in
four years on Government account and
£6,000,000 in two years through the Watfei l
Board, which is carrying out Govern-
ment “policy,” and in the process has
been allowed to return to the political
crime of borrowing in London. As for
“investment” in public works, Mr.
Stevens can’t name any such “invest-
ment” which is showing a real profit.
In a circular addressed to his Brigh-
ton constituents, who returned him last
month in the belief that he was U.A.P.,
Macfarlan, M.L.A., has explained why
he turned Independent. He says it was
because “the U.A.P. decided to continue
to sit in opposition to the present [min-
ority Cocky] Government,” and because
“it is controled by an outside body, the
members of which are unknown to the
majority of party members.” In another
part of the statement he referred to “my
nine years’ experience of the party,”
which is six years old, and promised to
remain “a Liberal, like my predecessors
in Brighton, Higinbotham, Bent and
Snowball.” Higinbotham, Bent and
Snowball!
Analysing the vote in Herbert on
October 23, the Townsville “Daily Bul-
letin” has reached the conclusion that
“in the seven State divisions of the
electorate Communism holds the balance
of power.” At present they are all Labor
divisions. One of them (Mackay) is
held by Premier Forgan Smith ; another
(Innisfail) by Deputy Premier Pease.
Queensland’s Opposition is preparing
for the State elections with higher hopes
than it has held since 1929. It dismisses
its Senate reverse as a mere voting-paper
accident, and points out that not only
was Federal Griffith nearly regained
from Baker, but in Lilley and Darling
Downs the U.A.P.-U.C.P. majorities
were greatly increased. Lilley is made
up of five State electorates —Enoggera,
Sixty-one not out, and going like a steam-roller!
Nundah, Sandgate, Toombul and Wind-
sor. Though four have State Labor
members, W. A. Jolly, standing for the
first time, had substantial majorities in
all five —his lead over the Labor man
was 10,402 in a poll of 53,106.
Though drought made the export
figures the lowest for 12 years, Fre-
mantle Harbor Trust reports a profit of
£98,388 for the year to June 30. The
State Government gets a large share of
the profit, having for 30 years or so
used the Harbor Trust as a taxing
machine.
Winston Churchill, who, though no
statesman, has a talent for invective, de-
scribes Trotsky, alias Bronstein, as “a
skin of malice, stranded for a time on
the shores of the Black Sea, and now
washed up in the Gulf of Mexico.” Aus-
tralian publication of this appreciation
coincided with the return of the Sydney
newspaperman who interviewed Trot, in
Mexico, credited him with “an extraordi-
nary knowledge of the Commonwealth’s
social affairs” and passed on his advice to
Australia. The advice was that Aus-
tralia should defend its “independence”
(Maoriland, too) by supporting “the war
of liberation by the Chinese nation
against the Japanese plunderers.” The
newspaperman now dismisses Trot, as a
vain old windbag.
Going to Melbourne to have a look
at Clapp’s all-steel air-conditioned train,
N.S.W. Railway Commissioner Hartigan
“outlined the policy of his department,
which caused a deficit of £4,564,600 in
1932 to be replaced in 1937 by a surplus
of £28,397.” Actually, the deficit was in.-
creased by nearly £12,000,000 in the five
years, and the reduction in the annual
loss has been effected in part by Bruce
conversions and the use of interest-free
loan-money for which the State has to
pay 4 p.c.
What silly things clever men say!
Practically every Latin-American republic
has had dictatorships and has practised
repudiation; but when Brazil returned
to these ancient S. American customs
Sinclair Lewis, the writer, flew into a
wild rage. “It is a violation of the
Monroe Doctrine,” he shouted, “and it
wili force the United States, Britain and
France to fight.” Of course, the eminent
author would let young men do the
fighting. He is 53.
Victoria goes through the farce of
holding a prohibition poll every eight
years. A 60 p.c. vote is necessary for
abolition, and at the last poll in 1930
there were 388,833 for and 507,025
against. February was suggested as a
suitable month, but leading abolitionists
pleaded that it was a thirsty time, and
that if it happened to be a hundred in
the shade on polling day the odds against
them couldn’t be calculated. They are
to be humored with a date in spring—
October 8. A more appropriate time
would be the century after next.
Notwithstanding the multitude of State
politicians and their craze for setting up
boards, milk at a fair price all round
seems as distant a dream as ever. In Bris-
bane last week members of the Country
Milk Association, which supplies Bris-
bane, struck for Hid. a gallon. In Syd-
ney Dairy Farmers announced that
bottled milk would in future be Bd. a
quart. This concern alleges that its
hand was forced by increases in costs ;
but when wages and costs were falling
like the walls of Jericho it said sevenpence
a quart was its irreducible minimum.
Superfluous politicians who hang out
at Melbourne are continuing their un-
amusing imitation of the Asquith Gov-
ernment’s wrangle with the House of
Lords. It seems possible that they will
carry it to the length of having two elec-
tions within 12 months, as happened in
1911. A referendum has been men-
tioned, but the superfluous politicians
have a deadly horror of it. Referendum
talk might lead to a popular demand
that the existence of both Houses should
be put to the vote.
H. B. Turner, who succeeded Gold-
finch, the C.S.R. man, as M.L.A. for
Gordon, spoke for the first time in
Macquarie-street last week, and “S. M.
Herald” notes that “he was warmly
congratulated by members on both sides
of the House.” It must have been the
manner of his speech, not the matter,
that appealed to them, for the young
man favored the abolition of State Par-
liaments and increased local-government
powers. A public overburdened with
politicians will applaud the matter.
“A conference of union executives,”
alleged to represent 73 organisations with
250,000 members, has told Lang he will
have to go. But the four Labor Parlia-
mentarians who attended the last palace
revolution were significantly absent from
this one, and Orr, of the Miners’
Federation, pronounced its doom by
shouting “I am a Communist, and proud
of it!”
Said the second Charles to the
second James: “Brother, they will never
get rid of me to make you king.” Simi-
larly, N.S.W. unionists will never hoof
Lang out to let Orr occupy the vacant
place.
Evidently satisfied now that the Italians
are not going to rise up against their
Government, as he asked them to do
as a personal favor, Herbert Morrison,
the British Labor member, has denounced
Musso. as a liar. Not to be behind-hand, a
Sydney paper has chronicled the arrival
in the U.S.A. of Mussolini’s “lover,” the
crack-brained lady who shot a French
count. In quite another vein, the Union
Government has conveyed its “most
sincere regret to the Italian Government
at the extremely bad taste and utter lack
of consideration for the feelings of the
Italian people” shown in a Natal
newspaper’s articles on Mussolini’s
home life. It offers “the sincerest
apologies to the Government and the
people of Italy.”
Hertzog is being flayed for his apology
to the Italian Government. As a student
of history, he doubtless remembers that
the war with Napoleonic France was pro-
longed and embittered by precursors of
Morrison and the Natal muck-raker
who accused the Emperor of every crime
in the calendar, beginning with incest.
Lang’s newspaper is furious with
Granny “Herald” for urging on the
latest anti-Lang mob, and the U.A.P. is
not exactly pleased. Lang is the
U.A.P.’s best bet, just as the Communist
is Lang’s. Also sensitive U.A.P. souls
shudder at some of the expressions em-
ployed by Lang’s noisy' enemies and
recorded by “Granny”:
"Purge Necessary.”
Mr. W. H. Denford (ironworkers) said
the industrialists will have to run their
own candidates. A purge is necessary in
the State Labor party. Unionists will have
to do it as it was done in Russia.
And none of your castor-oil Fascism!


A PRESENT FOR GOOD BOYS.
“After 39 years, the N.S.W. Surf Life-Saving Association has received its first gift—a cheque—in appreciation of services rendered.”


Top of the world.. Banff,
Lake Louise, Emerald Lake,
You’ll see 600 miles of the
best of Canada’s Rockies
if you go to Europe via
247 George Street, Sydney
59 William Street, Melbourne
Canadian Pacific Rly. Co., Inc. in Canada
DEPENDS ON SPARKING PLUGS
-YOU CAN
DEPEND ON
Champions
To enjoy SMOOTH MOTORING you must
keep your car’s ignition always at its best.
Good strong sparks are as necessary as good
fuel. For best results and the greatest econ-
omy, install new Champions every year.
An Empire product
made in Windsor, Canada
3Z
m
%
in
IZWijj
iniiif
VJlij
V/WA
I #
fT
Obtainable at all leading
automotive supply dealers
PERSONAL ITEMS
In Wood-Jones, leaving for an English
post, Melbourne University loses not
only one of its most engaging personali-
ties but an anatomist of world-wide
repute. He began as medico on a cable
ship, and spent two years as doctor to
the cable staff at Cocos, gathering a pro-
found knowledge of the coral insect.
Products of his stay were a new thesis on
coral formations which took the place of
Darwin’s, and his marriage with one of
the descendants of Clunies Ross, owner
and Governor of the island. His next
work agitated science by its attempt to
demonstrate that man was not descended
from the anthropoid ape but from a
small Bornean animal, the spectral tar-
sins. His interests while in Australia
have included a vigorous defence of the
aboriginal. He is an essayist of great
charm.
The untimely death, at 42, of Rayner
Hoff removes one of the most outstand-
ing figures in Australia’s art world. A
young Englishman, trained at South
Kensington, and a Prix de Rome winner,
he came to East Sydney Technical Col-
RAYNER HOFF as Frith saw him.
lege 14 years ago as instructor in sculp-
ture. His own work endures in the
Sydney Anzac Memorial, the Adelaide
War Memorial and other important edi-
fices and in commemorative plaques and
medals, but his best memorial is the
elevation of East Sydney Tech, to the
status of a first-class art school. Hoff was
one of those rare artists with a genius
for teaching. Himself independent and
original, he respected those attributes in
others, and set himself to educe rather
than to manufacture talent, a policy
which has proved extraordinarily suc-
cessful.
C. A. Murton, secretary to Queensland
Railways, is booked to succeed J. W.
Davidson as Commissioner with the New
Year. He began railway work in 1889
as a junior clerk under his father, station-
master at Warwick (Q.). Ten years of
experience in all grades brought him to
the audit branch, and finally to his present
job when G. R. Steer went to manage
the newly-acquired Brisbane city tram-
ways. The catch is that he is now 60
and, under present rules, is due to retire
after five years’ more service.
Dick Cobden, chairman of York
just back from U.S.A., made the
best of his opportunities. Leaving Bris-
bane Grammar School, he tried clerk-
ships in Dalgetys and the A.M.P., and
in his very early twenties drifted to the
editorship of Queensland’s first motoring
paper, “The Steering Wheel,” which he
combined with the secretaryship of the
Brisbane Automobile Club. He trans-
ferred to Sydney as managing director
of a group which owned “Motor Life”
and other publications, and gradually
drifted into the business of selling cars.
To-day he heads one of the biggest motor
firms in Australia, handling. Chrysler and
Morris products.
Andrew Williamson, dead a couple of
weeks, has been succeeded in the chair-
man ship of the E., S. and A. Bank by
Sidney Marr Ward.
Formerly with the
Bank of England,
Ward became a part-
ner in Baring Bros.,
one of Europe’s lead-
ing mercantile banks.
His connection with
the E., S. and A.
began when he
joined the board on
the amalgamation of
that concern with
the London Bank of
Australia.
Dead in Perth,
Everard F. Darlot,
with his brother, one
of W.A.’s foremost
pastoralists. He be-
gan on his father’s
properties, Bundy-
lumbah and Gelam
in N.S.W., and came
to W.A. in the late
’seventies. Horses
were his hobby. He
raced successfully as
“E. Firebrace,” and
in earlier days gave
much attention to
polo and amateur
riding. He was on
the committee of the
W.A. Turf Club,
and was M.L.A.
from 1890 until he resigned in ’94.
Anybody from Bemboka (N.S.W.) who
wanders into the aerodrome at Ramleh,
Palestine, will find a fellow townsman in
charge—Wing-Commander A. H. Flower,
one G f the few senior R.A.F. officers
w h o have risen from the ranks. A driver
j n an A.I.F. artillery unit, he joined the
r.a.F. in 1916 and served with No. 208
squadron in Cairo and Constantinople,
L as t y ear he became a staff man at Cairo,
hut the Palestine disturbances have
brought him back to a busy station com-
mand.
Australia is to have a visit in Decem-
her from wanderer Colonel Bertie
Taylor. Son of a soldier, he went to
S’Africa to join the Cape Mounted Rifles
in ’93, saw out the Griqua rebellion, was
given a commission in the Berkshires for
service in the field during the last Boer
War, trekked to the Gold Coast, be-
came a District Commissioner; enjoyed
a little Nigerian scrapping, was passed on
to the first Anzac division, did a string
of war jobs round Egypt and Palestine,
and was successively military governor
of Jerusalem and Galilee. His main
hobby is travel, and Who’s Who .sets the
seal on his cosmopolitanism, “Clubs:
Royal and Ancient, St. Andrews ; Turf,
Cairo.”
Malcolm Shepherd, retiring from the
secretaryship of the Defence Dept., be-
longs to an old Illawarra farming
family. He began with the N. S. Wales
G.P.0., was transferred to the P.M.G.’s
Department when the Commonwealth was
formed, and three years later became
Prime Minister’s secretary. In 1911
Shepherd was made secretary to the
P.M.’s Dept., saw the war through in that
job, and made way for Percy Deane
when sent to London as official secretary
at Australia House in 1921. Six years
later he came back to Australia and his
present job.
Attended his last muster at 57, H.
Frazer Watson, of Darriveen, Long-
reach. Second son of the Hon. Jas.
Watson, H.F. practised at the Sydney
Bar for some years, but the land called,
and after a term jackerooing on
Corona he took up Darriveen
on Darr River Downs and
worked it up. In between he
was with the 2nd Battalion, ris-
ing to the rank of major and
collecting a D.S.O. and M.C. He
was a committeeman of the
Longreach sub-branch of the
R.S.S.I.L.A. and a foundation
member of the Longreach Ama-
teur Race Club.
Well-known to Australians dabbling in
stocks and shares is Hugh S. Chambers,
33-year-old Melbourne accountant, who
in the last few months has performed
the obsequies on the complicated ac-
counts of two important Vic. stock- and
share-broking firms. Chambers has grown
up on bankruptcy and trustee jobs. He
came from Talbot (Vic.), and his first
city boss —Chambers worked under his
demanding eye for 12 years—was the late
E. W. Smail, Melbourne trustee for about
half a century. Five years ago he started
on his own. His first big break came
HUGH S. CHAMBERS.
when the Melbourne Chamber of Com-
merce group appointed him representa-
tive for city creditors in the estates of
various farmers applying for relief to the
Debts Adjustment Board.
Dr. A. A. D. Berg, managing director
in Rotterdam of the Holland-Australia
line, was built for the role of the Man
with the Seven-league Boots. Son of an
aristocratic Dutch banker his sister is
lady-in-waiting to the Queen of the
Netherlands—his life has been busy. A
doctor of laws, he joined the insurance
department of the Holland-America line
Dr. BERG —the Holland-America Line.
after leaving his University, went to Cal-
cutta to hold an executive post in the
Holland-British India Co. in 1929, and
took over his present job a year later.
Now he is visiting all the Australian
mainland States. In his leisure hours he
is a fine tennis-player and strong
swimmer.
Brisbane has lost in W. H. Bell one
of its veteran solicitors. Son of a
Supreme Court registrar, he went to
Brisbane Grammar School and spent the
whole of his life around the city, giving
his spare hours to religious and charit-
able organisations and still finding a
regular afternoon in later years for
bowls. In practice for 50 years, he was
74 at the end.
Retiring from the Queensland Public
Service G. A. Carter, who began his
upward march when he became private
secretary to Attorney-General Janies
Blair, now Queensland Chief Justice, 30
years ago. He was chief clerk to the
Justice Department when the late Tom
McCawley stepped out of the
Under-Secretaryship to become
a Judge 20 years ago. Carter
succeeded him and has been
Under-Secretary ever since. He
is to give place to another Blair-
trained private secretary, J. D.
O’Hagan.
A transient Australian succeeds:
Who’s Who gives no more information about
knight Harry Twyford, who took office on
November 9 as Lord Mayor of London, than
the dates of his birth and marriage to the
daughter of Richard Honey, of Adelaide (S.A.)
(the first Australian-born Lady Mayoress), the
fact that he was educated privately, that he
has been a London alderman since 1930 and
was Sheriff in 1934-35. Actually he has had
an unusual career. As a youth he joined the
Eastern Telegraph Co., worked throughout Asia,
and came to serve a term in Sydney early in
the century. From there he went to Maoriland
and was stationed at Nelson. At 34 he was
appointed M.L. superintendent, but retired in
1906 to go into business. On the death of his
uncle in 1913 he took over the control of a
big British firm of warehousemen and hosiery
manufacturers, and has built up a huge busi-
ness. Incidentally, as Lord Mayor he gets the
largest salary paid to any holder of an official
position in the Empire, outside royalty—£l2,soo
p.a. But it costs him as much again to do jus-
tice to the job.


SAFETY PffflVlD!
THE NATIONAL NOADS AND
MOTOHISTS’ ASSOCIATION
(N.S.W.) and the
AUTOMOBILE ASSOCIATION
OF AUSTNALIA
Certify
W.
Qei « T l>* o^°NtY
pcaO^ 0 "
10th
AUtA> N
ASSOC'
: R S %;; £ET 1 l—
SY test *9516375,
r ie& out P car, Eng iae 0 f aeter-
tlfy that " e ° _3oto" Sedan C^ o purpof f^ eT
This 13 f e i«S7. r oU n°Ve9 stiU f 8 tYie
and XStU. f*
sss&srs*-- “ c " „
sS. .„.«*»« Tp»<
ad the n 0" " 000 tqi^“
peratlnS a3 certoih ti/>n te ’ ■ ro x.i® ate4^
"To"""' 1 ” 1U ... » e ““t
s£. w „ ta. --JSSo-ftS ’v. -sS.T^-
oa the Xst. sujii p was 4r& t p e gumP f® d t,eing X 6 3 ibie co
18 0°?-. ft the araih ffinclu Wither noth
?f“ a 518 ■ u °*‘
*C2~ '££& “ a
srsft—.- Swe - ~~.
a.“ 5 1 -r«*.°°- 4 *s.u
msr •“•
>■ a° b vj. n< cOL ftadtng e,lttt ,-1 d raXned> snt&P encXnaing
aU 34g tf f 4 >558 pints.
IF n |_. p*"*” 0 * + O t&X °XX ncinal ° 4 miies t + y, a engf a . Q pep°
thus gfPittance of 3. drain® 4 £® st of fftnd eff®^ iV#
for th . the S'*® s faiyticaX f bS a s af
l vj^° n ES saiwpXe Vnaown further
dhN son-
.ng 80 ® 0 ., drain® 4 * B umP & V lu ding * a ”
wr WItMI
♦■Vvai the Oi*
luhrioant. or t attache • fSTT^
._„ivat s rev -poij -rrrronTo s °. .*■
190-487
rovA u 3
wi eefA
rovaM
BOio3
,A.
Secret® 17
to
The HEW
For your own
Safety
Get it Today.
MOTOR OIL
THE TEXAS COMPANY (AUSTRALASIA) LTD. {INC. IN N.S.W.)
ON
SALE
NEXT
WEEK
THE XMAS
jfcutfetia
76 PAGES FOR 6dL
COLORED
PAGES BY
NORMAN LINDSAY
TED SCORFIELD
UNK WHITE
and
THE YEAR’S BEST
SHORT
STORIES
and
THE XMAS
WOMAN’S
MIRROR
100 PAGES FOR 3d.
THE BIGGEST
BARGAIN
EVER
OFFERED
WOMEN
READERS
EIGHT
FREE
PATTERNS
TO
SELECT
FROM


ABORIGINALITIES
BLACK & WHITE WHISKY "PLURRY GOOD!
“Notaden”: I hate to admit it, but
that bright sprite of grace and beauty
the mistletoe bird is completing the
work of my and his fellow-Aussies who
slew the possums and let the mistletoe
curse loose, unchecked, on Australian
forests. He may be only 3|in. long, but
he is Australia’s only representative of
the great and noble genus of flower-
peckers. In his uniform of steely blue
and brave crimson vest, with trousers-
seat to match, he outshines his wife en-
tirely. They are gourmets, varying the
menu with honey, pollens and insects,
but using small fruits as the solid fare,
among them mistletoe berries, not for-
getting grapes, raspberries and such in
the season. But the mistletoe seeds,
spread widely by their busy travellings in
the treetops, are already doing immense
damage to timber and shade trees, and
will do worse still in the coming years
unless the possum race can, by some
miracle, be induced to resume their valu-
able work of destroying the parasite.
sit * * #
“The 0.D.”: A couple of items pub-
lished almost simultaneously in two
widely-separated country papers should
set the Council reminiscing. One told
of a retriever that fell down an old mine
shaft near West Wyalong (N.S.W.), and
was there 13 days without food and
water. Another told of a foxy trapped
in a burrow near Wyong (N.S.W.), and
was there without food or water for 14
days until a plough-horse’s hoof broke
through the top of the burrow. Both
tykes are alive and well. Now then,
Aboliars!
* Sp * *
“Mulyan”: On Bonalbo, between the
Richmond and Clarence Rivers (N.S.W.),
a draught foal was recently attacked and
killed by a wild dog described as an
Alsatian-dingo cross. I have never heard
of a dingo, or even an ordinary half-
breed, attacking foals. On cattle-runs
an occasional young calf was killed by a
dingo; stockmen have come upon a
dingo quietly and patiently working
around a cow that had a young calf,
and on riding up flushed three or four
other dogs from the grass, where they
had been watching for a chance to cut
off the calf. The Alsatian-cross is more
powerful and vicious than the dingo, and
on the Clarence has attacked and killed
two-year-old cattle. It leaves also many
maimed beasts, and one dog can worry
whole herds. The Alsatian-cross rushes
straight in, and when there are two or
three of the brutes the cow has no chance
of protecting the young one..
# * * *
“Nor’-west”: Nature was in a bad
mood when she produced the kangaroo
tick. Humping the drum across dry
country north of Carnarvon (W:A.), we
were deprived of all shade for an occa-
sional rest by the multitude of these pests
infesting ’roo “squats,” which meant just
about every sizeable bush. Luckily these
squats could be smelt —though many a
newchum falls for them, with evil results.
With long, slender legs carrying an abdo>
men the size of a large pea, the ticks
can travel over the hairs of a man’s
arms without his being aware of it —
the first notification being the nipping
plunge of the barbed proboscis.
Attempts to remove the intruder by
simple pulling breaks off the body, leav-
ing the proboscis embedded—resulting in
a stubborn festering sore. The experi-
enced bushie starts with a match, or the
glowing end of a twig, frying the abdo-
men right off. Sometimes this treatment
induces the bloodsucker to let go, but
if she resists to the death the remaining
black spot, which represents the partly-
cooked beak, can be extracted fairly
easily with a needle. Picking out ticks
was common campfire entertainment
round where we travelled.
* * * *
“Orwell”: Misreported by a Sydney
daily that the Department of Commerce
at Canberra has received an order from
Brazil for an ornamentally-carved abori-
ginal skull. The doctor asked for
the gruesome memento mori said he saw
the sample in the Australian Pavilion at
the Paris Exposition. Someone has
slipped, for that skull isn’t carved ; it’s
painted. Similar works of art from
Crocodile Island and round about Aus-
“Over this Way a bit, Bert."
tralia’s back door can be seen in the
College-street (Sydney) museum. The
designs in red, yellow and white ochre
are symbols of the totems of the gentle-
men who once wore the heads. They
have been applied so that departed
Binghis can be easily identified among
those present in the last round-up.
* * * *
“Brix”: The only bit of greenstuff left
untouched by the grasshoppers when
they passed through our district was the
parsley patch. Which recalls that no-
thing seems to like parsley ; mint, sage,
thyme and the rest all have their para-
sites, but parsley is left unmolested by
even garden pests.
* * * *
“McMurphy”: Can’t explain the
acoustics mentioned by “C.V.S.” (B.
3/11/ ’37), but —go to a rabbit-warren on
open country, lie out on the bare ground
within a few feet of the nearest burrow-
armed with a .22 rifle and short cart-
ridges on the leeward side and about an
hour before sundown. Make a heap
of twigs to hide your face, and when
the cottontails come out take aim with
the rifle held as close to the ground as
possible short of blowing up the dust.
When you fire you’ll hear the click of
the bolt and the plunk of the bullet
knocking the rabbit, but you’ll hear no
sound of the shot at all. The other
rabbos sit up and gaze around in puzzled
fashion, and the slaughter goes on. The
strange thing is that a person standing
close by cannot hear the shots, yet some-
one on a rise some distance off may hear
them quite plainly.
* * * *
“Herpeton”: The chap who found a
gathering of snakes on his doorstep and
dispersed them with a rake (B. 10 /11 /3 / )
was butting-in on love’s young dream,
the affair being nothing more or less
than a snake wedding. Off the coast °t
Papua writer has sailed a whaleboat
through a glassy sea covered as far as
the eye could see with similar parties.
Only in this case, probably to guard
against being dispersed by wind and
current, the whole serpent party ties itself
into a tangled mass and floats in this
fashion as the gods direct and the hungiy
shark —who is very fond of sea-snake
allows.
* * * *
“F.Y.7”: The man who introduced
African mimosa to Australia as stock
feed (B. 10/11 /’37) was carting coals to
Newcastle. Some parts of Australia
notably the Upper Barcoo country —
carry a low, bushy mimosa with very
green leaves and small puff-ball flowers
which we used to call acacia. Sheep
preferred this tree to any other kind of
feed, and the plants dotted over the
Downs country were trimmed as level
on the under side as any landscape gar-
dener could achieve with his shears. In
the days of which I write the he-male
of the species —Homo sapiens, not ovis,
smarty—was given to- using pomatum on
hair and whiskers. Beauty-parlors were
far away then, and homemade pomatum
of clarified mutton-tallow scented with
the little golden balls of the acacia was
in great demand.
* * * *
“C. Coral”: Let me tell “Puyyaka”
(B- 20/10/’37) that “Treacle,” who holds
the record for shark-teeth marks, came
originally from the east coast of Cape
York Peninsula and was not a native
of Yorke Island. I know, for I had to
obtain evidence of his home centre on
more than one occasion for official
records; besides, anyone who knows the
Torres Strait Islanders can recognise im-
mediately the difference between them
and the abo. mainlanders. Some of the
islands carry a very mixed population ;
for instance, on Darnley there are actu-
ally very few T.S. Islanders, the majority
having come from Lifu, Rotumah, Fiji,
Samoa, the Solomons, etc. Badu also
carries a mixed population, and on Moa
Island there is a big settlement com-
posed entirely of the descendants of
Kanakas who were allowed to remain
in Australia at the time of the depor-
tation. Incidentally, several scribes who
refer to the above as being in the “Torres
Islands” are confusing two distinct
groups: the Torres Strait Islands lie be-
tween Cape York and New Guinea, and
are within Queensland boundaries, while
the Torres Islands are hundreds of miles
eastward, in the Banks group. I have
good reason to know the difference, be-
cause my mails frequently contained
long-overdue letters which had borne the
wrong designation applied by careless
correspondents.
* * * *
“D. Thomas”: Much interested in
“Larrakeah’s” assertion (B. 10/11/’37)
that certain tribes of Borneo refuse to
drink milk, considering it disgusting.
Can he tell us the name of the provender
on which the youngsters subsist up to,
say, a year old? I am interested in a
feeding-bottle mill, and might find here
a chance to push sales. Still, primitive
folks have these fads. Many outback
Australians refuse to eat “offal” as they
call the liver, kidneys, sweetbreads, etc.,
of sheep and cattle, while some of the
Bantu tribes, especially the Zulus, will
starve sooner than scoff fish —“water-
snakes,” as Umslopogaas calls them.
$ H'
“Langshan”: The bull-ant does sting
with his tail-end (B. 3/11/’37). So does
the jumper-ant, the blue-and-red variety's
sting making a bull-ant appear a perfect
gent, by comparison. No need to sacri-
fice any skin, as “Kerriki” suggests, to
ascertain which end contains the weapon.
Just pin Mr. Bull-ant down with a twig
and watch him lash it furiously with his
afternoon-portion. The sting can be
clearly seen.
* * * *
“Wah”: “We’ve had a rough spin
lately,” moaned Bung. “First me laid
up with the ’flu, then the beer strike, then
young Claude broke his arm, an’ yester-
day the missus got burnt.” “Hell—that’s
bad,” sympathised old Harry. “Was
she insured?”
* * * *
“Sandpatch”: Tell “Larrakeah” (B.
10/11 /’37) that, while the Territory myalls
may reject goat, the station abos. eat it
with gusto. But one thing I have never
heard of Black Brother coming at is the
mushroom, nor have I heard of any
tackling frogs. Why the abo. commis-
sariat department accepts grubs, ants,
snakes and lizards and rejects two deli-
cacies beloved of European gourmands
is a mystery which some Aboliar may be
able to solve.
“Gryllus”: In support of “Laetitia”
(B. 3/11/ ’37), I’ve picked up honeyeaters,
also small bats, hopelessly drunk under
a silky-oak tree at the end of flowering.
But some of the honeyeaters are liable
to go cranky at other seasons, particu-
larly after spells of sudden hot weather.
Leatherheads ( Philemon corniculatus I
believe is their identifying moniker) seem
to have very poor heads for the sun in
spite of the leather. They are rattled
fowls at most times, as their conversa-
tion and appearance would suggest.
Last summer I had, in sheer self-defence,
to kill one who sat and shrieked for a
whole afternoon and well into the even-
ing just outside my window when I had
a job of writing on. It was clearly
wrong upstairs, and a doctor friend sug-
gested that it was probably suffering
from meningitis. Shouting and thrown
sticks only induced it to flap to a near-
by tree, thence to return with more
screeches. So I did it in—drat it!
* * * *
“Nordbo”: This accident must be
unique. A Cairns (N.Q.) man stood on a
log, putting an underhand cut through it,
when his dog, spotting a wallaby, ran
between his legs. The descending axe
struck the tyke on the head, killing it,
glanced off and cut the man’s foot almost
in two.
* * * *
“Puffinus”: Tell “Tid’apa” (B.
3/11/ ’37) that if there’s any bulls-wool
in the matter of adult wedgetailed eagles
playing games aloft, he’s pulling it over
his own eyes. The season for it is well
after the family has been pushed out to
get its living. As an eagle habit it has
been recognised for years among Euro-
pean species. And, while on the sub-
ject of corrections, frigate-birds don’t
nest in cliffs, but in trees; and terns, not
gannets, are their choice for piratical
enterprise. Also, they rob only if their
usual and preferred food supply of small
fish, floating molluscs, and so on, are
not to be picked up from the sea sur-
face. The young are not taught to rob,
but to fish —they don’t begin robbery
until long after they are out of parental
control. And, finally, he ought at least
to spell his own pen-moniker right.
“Never mind” or “Doesn’t matter” in
correctly-Anglicised Malay should be
either Tidapa (note the circumflex over
the first “a”) or Tida’ apa, full length.
BRUMBY COUNTRY.
The flaming sunset faded and northward turned
the breeze;
Like phantoms in the twilight they stole between
the trees,
The heritors of freedom who tread beneath the
moon
The pathways of the darkness toward the long
lagoon.
The spirit of the wild land is coursing through
their veins—
The fire of the ranges and the freedom of the
plains—
Who come with hot hoofs spurning while still
the sunset flares:
The whistle of the stallions! the whinny of the
mares!
Their camp beyond the scrub line, their feed-
ing-ground the plains,
Unbroken and unbridled —long tails and shaggy
manes.
Oh, give them wide dominion, a place beneath
the sun,
A home to have for ever, the sky to bound
their run!
The city lights may beckon—the ports where
big ships are;
But give me Brumby Country, all lit by moon
and star,
Where I will hear the hoofbeats when the red
sunset flares;
The whistle of the stallions! the whinny of
the mares!
QUEENSLAND.
LEX McLENNAN.


“Nab”: Most laconic man encoun-
tered this year was on a farm out from
Tamworth (N.S.W.). “Is this Mr. X’s
place?” asked the spokesman of the
party. “Yairs,” came the answer. “Is
he about?” “Yairs.” A short silence,
then, “Are you Mr. X?” “Yairs.” But
he became less guarded when he found
there were no agents, salesmen or tax-
officers in the party.
* * * *
“Langshan”: “Brainy mongs?” snorted
old Bill when I read him “Dougal’s”
par. (B. 3/11/ ’37). “Now old Bluey
there’s got brains. When we was tailin’
cattle on the Wallum last dry season the
fleas was that bad a bloke couldn’t leave
a quart-pot o’ tea on th’ ground with-
out they’d stand on their hind legs and
drink it. Then old Blue got busy, an’
every time a flea stood up to drink he
nipped its heels an’ it hopped straight
inter th’ scaldin’ tea. O’ course, we had
ter make gallons of it, but we reckoned
it worth while. The old dorg cleaned
up ev’ry flea inside a week.”
* * * *
“K.8.E.”: Is “Valencia Creek” (B.
27/10/’37) a farmer or was he just guess-
ing? In many ways the petrol-drum may
have replaced the petrol-tin, but it cer-
tainly isn’t suitable for wheat-pickling.
Bluestone or formalin compounds
gnaw like an uneasy conscience when
placed in galvanised containers, and the
pickle quickly loses potency as the drum
holes. And the companies charge not
ss. but 10s. to 15s.
* * * *
“Heresone”: I can’t understand how
those giant toads could keep anyone
awake (B. 20/10/’37). People seem to
sleep quite easily in cities, surrounded
by the intermittent clangor of trains,
motor-horns and many other discords.
A chorus of frogs is deep-voiced, rhyth-
mical and monotonous, and should be
more sedative than an after-dinner
speaker.
» * * *
“Lizard”: To listen to “Rom Ney”
speaking his piece (B. 3/11/ ’37) makes
me think the nearest ever he got to sheep
was at the pictures or a wool sale. That
“dogged, dagged,” etc., is a fine effort,
but the sober truth is they’ve been pam-
pered, petted, coddled, cradled, nursed
“Sorry, sir, but I Wasn't sure if it Was the M or the W.”
and a lot of other things also during the
last 130 years. Men’s lives have been
devoted to them; money has been
poured out on them like water; accom-
modation has been given them of which
their hardy ancestors never dreamed.
That they have repaid the money and re-
turned the care is beside the point. I
wonder how long “Rom Ney” thinks he
would last if he started his kicking, cuff-
ing and dogging on even the roughest
station in the furthest outback? In his
flights of fancy “R.N.” omitted the
greatest cruelty of the lot—the washing,
which has gone out of date these many
years. Scouring the wool, instead of
doing ditto to the sheep, has eliminated
that slow torture. Another point he
missed was the searing.
* * * *
“F.Y.7”: Rugging sheep, catching on
in Australia, has been practised in
Europe for a very long time, ft is re-
“But the Imperial has the superiah cuisine”
corded of Marmont, Bonaparte’s artiller-
ist, that when he turned his sword into a
pair of shears somewhere in Southern
France he clothed his sheep in leather
jackets every winter and found it paid
him handsomely. The sheep in his case
were milk-producers for cheese-making,
and it is worth noting that dairymen in
all up-to-date countries have long known
that rugging cows greatly increases the
winter milk yield.
* * * *
“Greg”: He came limping up the
path, a disreputable old battler of the
road. “Say, missus,” he whined to the
stern-visaged head of the house, “can
yer give us the price of a bottle of
rum?” The lady’s face registered
horror, outraged dignity and righteous
indignation. “My good man,” she
managed to croak when she regained a
portion of her wind, “do you think I
would willingly give you money to
squander on vile liquor?” “Well,
missus,” explained the “good man,” “I
don’t want ter drink the rum, 1 want ter
pour it in me shoes ter kill the corn-
ache” He got the price of the “corn-
cure”—not from the indignant lady, but
from me. I happen to know the benefit
of rum poured in the shoes. It’s just
about the best foot-easer procurable. And
if you do keep a wee drop in the bottle
for internal use—well, who’s to blame
you?
* * * *
“Walkabout”: None of those dingo-
and fox-stiffeners have mentioned the «d
anu tox stineners nave mentioned the ad-
vantages to be gained by adding a little
bicarbonate of soda to strychnine before
applying the poison to baits. The b. of
s. helps the dose to penetrate well into
the bait and causes the strychnine to
act more quickly. Once when laying
baits for dingoes we lost a few pounds'
'worth of scalps through being unable to
find the dead warrigals after the baits
had been taken. An old dogger put me
wise to the bicarb, stunt, and since then
its efficacy has often been proved. After
swallowing baits so treated, neither
dingoes nor foxes will travel far before
they throw a seven. Equal proportions
will do the trick.
* * * *
“Nagheer”: Queensland’s thunder-
storm season has opened with some
dramatic effects. A service car was tak-
ing a passenger to catch a train at Palm-
woods (S.Q.) when a sudden driving
thundershower flooded the plugs and
stopped the engine.
A few seconds later
a big tree fell
across the road
ahead in the precise
place where the
car would have
been but for the
stoppage. A Bur-
leigh Heads butcher
was putting his
knife back in its
sheath when a flash
of lightning
knocked it out of
his hand and half-
stunned him. A
small boy was get-
ting a drink at a
State school just as
the same flash
fused the school
lights and knocked
him down, scared
but unhurt. A
Nambour citizen
had been intending
to top-off a big
tree in order to
avoid possible risk to outbuildings and
fences. A flash of lightning did the job
neatly, effectively and instantaneously,
throwing the top just nicely clear of
everything and also splitting a good load
of stove-wood for the picking up.
* * * *
“Fishdiet”: Skinning cobbler or cat-
fish is a tricky job. Hang by the head
to a butcher’s hook, or nail with a 3in.
spike to a plank ; slit skin right round
just below the spines; then, gripping
with a strong pair of pincers, peel the
whole skin off like a sock. Another
way is to cut the head right off. Then
with strong scissors clip off fins from
tail up. With a sharp blade next slit
a little flap right at tip of tail. Then,
with a grip on flap and tail with scraps
of rag, the whole side peels easily. Turn
over and repeat.
*„* . *
“Nor-west ’: Resting in a shady glen in
* be Leopold Ranges, I tossed away
tbe remains of my dinner to see if it
bring the wood-pigeons down
from tbe trees. They came, and, having
cleaned up everything, flew away again
T e f ept °Jf With wings limp and eyes
fixed on a heap of rubble thls one waited,
Already about 10ft of rock python had
emerged, head slightly raised, intent on
a meal. Absolutely helpless, the pigeon
waited, its only movement in its wings,
which quivered with fright. Right on
the python came, to within a yard. By
this time, so quick was everything hap-
pening, I had just managed to get hold
of a handy lump of rock. It missed,
but it disconcerted Mr. Blake somewhat,
and in the split second that his glance
turned to me the pigeon was off. And
so was Joe—dissolved back into the pile
of rubble so quickly that he seemed to
never have emerged.
JjJ s»e Sfc
“Ribach”: Why is it impossible to
shoot a duck in the middle of a reason-
ably' wide stream from a bank 20ft. or
more in height? Aim at it as often as
you like with any type of gun, and it’s a
rare fluke if the fowl suffers so much as
the loss of a feather. Again, should a
turtle be basking on a log at the foot of
the opposite bank, I’ll back it five to one
to remain unharmed while all the crack-
shots of the district pot directly at it from
the same position.
*** • *
“Walkabout”: Oldest quartet I ever
saw engaged in bush work were em-
ployed on a tank-sinking job near Ban-
canyah Lake (nor’-west N.S.W.). With a
youngster, a lad of 69, they averaged 73,
the patriarch owning up to having passed
his 77th birthday. That was in 1913,
and if they haven’t since been smothered
by sandrift from the Soustralian side the
old battlers might still be in action.
* * * 9
“Harry N.”: “Fiona’s” par. (B.
3/11/ ’37) bears out my opinion that the
tabby-cat is miles ahead of Thomas in
the hunting field. The domesticated
Tom soon learns that ample food is
available without any effort on his part,
but Tabitha is for ever the huntress,
despite the plenitude of handouts avail-
able. We once had a tabby that kept a
chained-up tyke supplied with fresh
bunnies, laying her catch proudly in
front of Toby and purring contentedly
as he disposed of it.
* * * *
“C.V.S.”: Though a bird may be a
pest in one district and a natural ally in
another, I doubt whether the starling is
ever the latter. Its style of flight elimi-
nates it from the fly-catching squad, and
small fruitgrowers would be well advised
to encourage its taste for buzzies. Ex-
tinction of the fowl would soon follow,
as it would die of exhaustion during
pursuit of its tucker. I have seen flocks
of starlings account for great numbers
of root-eating grubs—driven from their
holes by a flood which would have
drowned them anvhow.
CHANGING GUARD.
Along the east a gleam of light
Leads on the march of day,
And o’er the chaos of the night
A fresh new world has sway.
The kookaburras now, with free,
Wild, Rabelaisian mirth
And laughing song, triumphantly
Proclaim the morning’s birth;
And from the dark’s one last retreat,
Its gum-trees still bestarred,
A mopoke’s answering cries complete
The changing of the guard.
VICTORIA.
GERALD BYRNE.


Are yon a
TRUSTEE?
it so, do you not find that, in this capacity, the
demands made upon your time are too great,
or the duties too exacting?
Are you aware that a Trustee is presumed to
know the law relating to Trusts, and may be
held responsible for mistakes made during
a dministration ?
Moreover, the intricacies of Estate administra-
tion often lead to the neglect of the Trustee’s
own affairs.
Should you wish to surrender a Trusteeship,
or act in an advisory capacity only, it would be
advisable to consult The Trustees Executors
and Agency Company Limited, which is in its
60th year of experience in the problems
attendant upon the administration of Estates.
An appointment may be arranged at any time.
THE TRUSTEES EXECUTORS
S> AGENCY COMPANY LTD.
(Incorporated in Victoria, June 14, 1878)
(Registered in New South Wales, 1907)
THE OLDEST TRUSTEE COMPANY IN AUSTRALIA, NOW IN ITS 60th YEAR
OF SERVICE
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves and Undivided Profits, £955,806.
412 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE • 1-5 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G. (Chairman),
W. D. Stewart. «• T - H,ldcp ‘
N.S.W. Manager: J. W. Russell French.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman).
Maj.-Gen. Sir Brudenell White, K.C.8., K.C.M.G., K.C.V.0., D.S.O.*
R. O. Blackwood, D. Stuart Murray, John Fordyce,
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G., Sir Lennon Raws, C.B.E.
General Manager: W. Sydney Jones. Manager: K. M. Hughes.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
United Insurance Co.
To Re- Re-
Sept., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1927.. 66,748 10 p.c. = 42,500 24,248 438,649
Transferred to capital, £25,000 .. 413,649
1928.. 67,403 10 p.c. = 45,000 22,403 436,052
1929.. 66,862 10 „ „ 45,000 21,862 457,914
1930.. 68,231 10 „ „ 45,000 23,231 481,145
1931.. 42,639 10 „ „ 45,000 478,784
Unexplained reduction, £lBl6 .. 476,968
Loss.
1932.. 12,022 5 p.c. = 22,500 442,446
Profit.
1933.. 27,140 6 „ „ 27,000 140 442.586
1934.. 49,045 7i „ ~ 33,750 15,296 457,881
1935.. 38,569 8 „ „ 36,000 2,569 460,450
1936.. 48,454 8 „ „ 36,000 12,454 472,904
1937.. 51,067 8 „ „ 36,000 15,067 487,971
This 75-year-old Sydney-controlled fire
and marine office isn’t getting the kick
out of the business that it used to. Ex-
cept for an office in London, the con-
tracts are all written in Australia and
Maoriland. During the 15 years to the
close of accounts in 1927, a steady 10
p.c. div. was sweetened with £325,000 of
bonus scrip. This was possible because
of a run of very favorable underwriting
surpluses, and because returns from in-
vestments kept close on the heels of the
mounting dividend charge. But wider
policy-writing brought heavier claims,
especially in the marine section at the
London end (where many Australian
cos. have pulled out of recent years), and
the gift-giving ceased about 10 years ago.
Then slump lightened premium income
and the return from investments, and the
div. dropped to 5 p.c. in ’32, when a
loss of £12,022 showed up—it was the
first thing of its kind since the beginning
of this century, and London marine busi-
ness was mainly responsible. With cur-
tailment of marine risks the loss ratio
began to improve, while income from
other sections responded to the improve-
ment in conditions generally, and the div.
has been steady at 8 p.c. for the last
three years.
Here is a comparison of underwriting
performances, etc.:
Net Pre- Ex- Loss Expense
miums. Losses, penses. Rate. Rate.
1900. . £70,779 £38,589 £25,296 54.5 p.c. 35.7 p.c.
1910.. 111,906 55,094 49,276 49.2 „ 44.0 „
1920.. 287.193 93,040 131,359 32.4 „ 45.7 „
1925.. 297,720 101,465 146,677 34.0 „ 49.2 „
1930.. *498,050 261,695 168,124 52.5 t „ 33.7 t „
1931.. *509,981 290,748 167,101 67.0 t „ 32.7 t „
1932.. *357,836 256,408 113,450 71.6 t „ 31.7 t „
1933.. *344,654 198,341 119,390 57.5 f „ 34.6 t „
1934.. *325,693 144,417 132,208 44.3 f „ 40.6 f „
1935.. *330,737 165,887 126,281 50.1 f „ 38.1 t „
1936. .*366,755 191,806 126.620 52.3 t „ 34.5 f „
1937.. 360,520 211,899 132,352 58.8 „ 36.7 „
•Includes interest, etc.
fßatio to net premiums plus interest, etc.
For the first time since 1927 the co. has
separated net premium and other in-
come. The year’s underwriting surplus
(£16,269) was 3.6 p.c. and the return
from interest and rents (£34,781) 7.7 p.c.
on capital, making total return from all
sources 11.3 p.c. on capital as against
10.7, 8.5, 10.9, 6, a loss, 9.3, 15.1 and
14.8 p.c. back to 1929. Net premiums
and interest, etc., combined (£395,301)
were up £28,546. The loss rate con-
tinued to climb, but the expense rate
appears to have eased a trifle.
As for the current term, the readjust-
ment of premiums on motor-car insur-
ance should help. Much will depend
upon the trend of the loss rate, and that
is something over which the manage-
ment has very little control. The market
notes this and prices the £lO shares paid
to £5 at £lO 65., at which figure the yield
is 3.9 p.c. on an 8 p.c. div. basis, or 4.4
p.c. on a 9 p.c. distribution. The cover
is £lO Bs. sd. in net tangibles.
Assets can be taken as well worth their
book value:
1930. 1933. 1936. 1937.
Paid capital. . £450,000 £450,000 £450,000 £450,000
Sundry creditors 164,640 103,406 124,273 132,584
Government
securities .. 503,313 444,970 450,893 460,730
Cash, book
debts, etc. 323,796 284,755 323,812 342,205
Debentures .. 40,688 39,875 40,000 40,000
Mortgages .. 131,729 123,444 131,713 126,860
Premises .. 118,759 118,759 118,759' 118,759
Policy-holders are well protected, as
they always have been. When the books
closed they could see net tangibles equal
to 260 p.c. of the year’s net premiums,
whereas 150 p.c. is usually considered
adequate.
Myer Emporium, Ltd. (Melb.)
Dividends—,
Pief. Ord.t To Re-
Julv, Profit. 9 p.c. 17i p.c. Reserves. serves.
£ £ £ ~
1927 .. 328,480 300,916 27,564 9,198
9 p.c. 14 p.c.
1928 .. 275,263 254,877 20,386 29,584
9 p.c. 124 p.c. ,
1929 .. 265,535 236,159 29,376 58,960
Share premiums, etc., £95,000 .. 153,960
9 p.c. 8 p.c.
1930 .. 244,505 192,382 52,123 206,083
9' p.c. 5 p.c.
1931 .. 154,296 152,550 1,746 207,829
9 p.c. 6 p.c.
1932 . . 206,275 167,069 39,206 247,035
1933 .. 217,724 167,705 50,019 297,054
1934 .. 226,460 168,083 ) , 9 0 77 309 431
Tax reserve, £46,000 f ’ '
Unexplained addition, £16,251 .. 3^0,68-
9 p.c. 7J p.c.
1935 . . 261,402 194,237 67,165 392,847
9 p.c. 8i p.c.
1936 . . 289,664 211,582 ) 7 r. o g<> 407,929
Staff fund, £3OOO j
9 p.c. 9 p.c.
1937 .. 321,011 214,240 ) 97 «01 565,730
Staff fund, £3OOO f ’
flncluding employees’ shares.
It is the largest department store in
Australia ; and a very efficient organi-
sation it is, too. There is £2,497,450 of
share capital to feed in 655,450 9 p.c.
cum. prefs., 99,500 staff partnership
.shares and 1,725,000 ords. Since the be-
ginning of 1937, the price of the ords.
has followed an erratic course in the
market. From August, 1936, till January,
1937, the price strengthened steadily
from 335. 9d. to 395. After that sales
fluctuated over a wide range each month,
the highest being 395. 6d. in March and
the lowest 335. 6d. in October. The
average monthly variation for the nine
months to the end of October was 2s. 3d.
The regularity of the movements suggests
steady selling pressure, possibly con-
nected with part of the estates of the
late Sidney Myer and Lee Neil. Last
week-end the figure was 345., at which
the return is 5.3 p.c. on a 9 p.c. div. basis,
with possibilities. The prefs. at 365. 9d.
return 4.9 p.c., and last year’s net earn-
ings were nearly times their annual
requirements. The net tangible cover is
£4 13s. 6d. prefs. and 265. sd. ords.
The organisation is planned on a sys-
tem of decentralised co-operative control,
with trained understudies for every im-
portant executive. So the death of the
founder of the business (Sidney Myer)
and his able lieutenant (Lee Neil), both
since the end of August, 1934, has not in-
terrupted the smooth working of the
organisation. Large-scale buying, manu-
facture of much of its own requirements
(the co. has its own woollen mills at
Ballarat and some 30 separate work-
► rooms in Melbourne), the position of the
store (it is in the centre of Melbourne's
shopping area in Bourke-street), a tight
hold upon exes, and forceful selling
methods, which means extensive adver-
tising, are some of the other factors
which have contributed to the co.’s
success.
For the 12 months covered by the
latest accounts sales were a record, and
S. Aus. business and the Woollen Mills
together sent along £36,587 (up £5465).
After providing for taxation (£55,000,
down £5000), net earnings sprang £31,347,
reaching £321,011, the best since 1927, and
sufficient to pay the pref. and staff part-
nership divs. (together £64,960) and show
14.7 p.c. on ord. capital, compared with
13, 11.3, 9.3, 8.9, 8.2, 5.1, 10.9 and 14.6
p.c. back to 1929. Shareholders received
an extra half of one per cent., making
9 p.c. for the year, the average for the
last eight years being 7 p.c. For the
four years following reconstruction in
1925, when bonus shares were scattered
at the rate of three for two, divs. aver-
aged 16 p.c., but share premiums took
some of the gilt off the gingerbread.
Although competition is keen, and the
tendency is for costs to strengthen, and
prices for wool, wheat and metals are
down (they are still profitable), the
seasonal outlook is bright, unemployment
is at a low level and the co. is well
equipped to make whatever progress
opportunity permits.
Here are balance-sheet figures:
1926. 1936. 1937.
Paid capital . , £1,676,978 £2,479,950 £2,479,950
Mortgages . . . 531,014 662,150 594,150
Sundry creditors.. 588,451 578,230 685,608
Freeholds, lease-
holds etc . . 1,266,536 2,046.098 2,084,769
Plant, vehicles, etc. 171,925 256,666 259,565
Shares in other cos. 180,99'7 447,247 441,309
Stocks . ■ • 962,486 1,045,363 1,051,312
Debtors . . • • 233,105 543,414 657,742
Cash, etc 8,094 30,504 27,856
Outstanding features last year were con-
tinued growth of debtors’ balances
(£626,742, up £83,328), net addition of
£38,671 to freeholds (new lifts were in-
stalled in the main store and a new dis-
patch store was erected at Carlton), a
reduction of £68,000 in mortgages and
growth of £107,378 in the amount coming
to sundry creditors. Shares in other cos.
are the ords. in Myer Emporium (S.A.),
Ltd., and the scrip in Myer Woollen
Mills Pty. The year’s improvement in
the more or less liquid surplus (£457,152,
excluding shares in other cos.) was
£78,251.
Taubmans, Ltd.
To Re— Re-
Sept., Profit. Dividends. _ serves, serves.
1933 24 892 8 p.c. = 20,939 3,953 102,956
loll: 51,162 15 P „ .. 39,261 13,901 116,857
Unexplained addition, £4 .. • • 4A6,Bbi
1935.. 60,124 17J-p.c. = 45,806 14,318 131,179
Specific reserves disclosed, £18,120.. 149,299
Share premiums, etc., £18,310 .. 167,609
1936 71 350 ni p.c. = 53.05 S 18,292 180,901
Reserves capitalised, £56,981 .. 128.920
Unexplained additions, £17,984 .. 146,904
1937.. 84,214 171 p.c. =: 69,802 14,412 161,316
This co., which manufactures paints,
varnishes, enamels, lacquers, etc., has de-
veloped a high earning capacity, thanks
mainly to the quality of its products,
able management, sound finances and an
efficient costing system. The main fac-
tory is at St. Peters, near Sydney, and
there is another at Wellington (M.L.);
branches have been established at Mel-
bourne, Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth.
Also, the co. has £225,721 (35 p.c. of the
balance-sheet total at Sept. 30) invested in
subsidiaries.
The outstanding feature of recent
years has been the quick expansion of de-
clared net earnings, which stepped up
from £24,892 in 1933 to £84,214 for the
last term, when the improvement was
£12,864. With the passing of slump, turn-
over picked up with the revival of home
building and renovating, and expansion
of the motor-body-building, furniture,
electrical, leather and other trades that
use the co.’s products. Last year’s £84,214
of profit, which was written after £17,984
dropped from somewhere into reserves,
was 21.1 p.c. on capital as against 23.5,
22.9, 20.3 and 9.5 p.c. for the four pre-
ceding terms. The div. was kept at 17j
p.c., which was sweetened with £56,981
of bonus scrip (one for six), issued early
in the term. The unexplained addition
to reserves appears to have some connec-
tion with purchase of a controlling in-
terest in an Adelaide co.
As for the current year, the price of
raw materials and other costs are up.
But whatever the co. may lose on the
swings it might get back on the round-
abouts. So the market, which doesn’t
expect the 17| p.c. div. to be inter-
fered with, prices the pound shares at
68s. 6d. The return at this figure is 5.1
p.c. on the basis of last year’s distribu-
tion. Visibly the cover is 28s. Id. in
net tangibles.
Here are balance-sheet figures, which
reflect continued expansion of the busi-
ness: —
1933. 1935. * 1936. 1937.
Paid capital. . £261,748 £334,262 £398,867
Sundry creditors 44.336* 62,750* 35,898 40,177
Freeholds .. 98,463 102,739 105,058 111,490
Plant, etc. . . 44,882 39,821 42,176 42,819
Stocks .. 88,187 96,205 117,538 139,569
Debtors .. 123,415 78,345 71,331 103.724
Investments .. 64,874 169,061 201,221 225,921
Cash, etc. .. 3,608 2,225 49,161 16,723
* Including contingency reserves.
Of the growth of £64,605 in capital,
£56,981 was in respect of bonus scrip,
and the balance in respect of purchase
of a controlling interest in L. G.
Abbott and Co., Adelaide, already
referred to. To add £6432 to free-
holds, £643 to plant, £22,103 to stocks,
£32,393 to debtors’ balances and £24,700
to investments, cash was drawn upon for
£32,438. Excluding investments, the
year’s improvement in the more or less
liquid surplus (£219,839) was £17,707.
The subsidiaries are a healthy lot.
For the year to the end of September
last they netted £31,657 (up £7976), or
12.4 p.c. on capital (£253,985, up £44,138)
as against 11.2 p.c. for the previous term.
Net tangibles amounted to £286,184. The
more or less liquid surplus amounted to
£178,898, excluding prepayments.
Creseo Fertilizers, Ltd. (Adelaide)
r— —Dividends ,To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Pref. Ord. serves, serves.
x £ £ £
1928. . 58,970 7 p.c. 10 p.c. =51,243 7,727 38,460
Added Service Shares reserve, £35,000.. 73,460
1929.. 65,028 7 p.c. 10 p.c. =63,573 1,455 74,915
Unexplained additions to reserves, £BOOO.. 82,915
1930.. 64,224 .6 p.c.* Nil 6,610 57,614 140,529
Loss.
1931.. 26,260 t Nil Nil 114,269
Profit.
1932.. 16,616 12 p.c.*t Nil 13,316 3,300 117,569
1933.. 26,577 6* „ 4 p.c. =31,579 112,567
1934.. 22,675 6* „ 24 „ „ 22,217 458 113,025
Loss.
1935.. 29,349 6* „ Nil 6,659 77,017
1936.. 16,472 6*,, Nil 6,659 53,886
Bad debts recovered, £2500 ... 56,386
Tax reserve disclosed, £2500 . . . . 53,886
Profit.
1937.. 19,087 6 p.c. Nil 6,660 12,427 66,313
♦lncludes 5 p.c. on old prefs., 2825 in 1930, now
1410. fAfter making special provision (£59,000)
for depreciation and doubtful debts. Jlncludes arrears.
The co. operates three plants in S. Aus.
and one at Geelong (Vic.), and has a
£90,000 share-interest in Creseo Fer-
tilizers (W.A.), Ltd. (paid capital
£313,589). For the half-dozen years to
the close of accounts in 1936, aggregate
losses (£72,081) exceeded aggregate
profits (£65,868) by £6213. Wheat-
farmers’ debts, the drop in the price of
the grain, reduced demand for fertiliser,
and price-cutting, partly on account of
competition from Victoria, were mainly
responsible.
The outlook changed early in the last
term. The average export price of grain
for the year to June 30 was ss. 7.7 d. per


LUDOWICI LEATHER BELTING
Gives many years of Trouble-free Service
ĺ
Ludowici Leather Belting of all types gives long
life and absolute dependability even under the
most difficult operating conditions.
Made from Ludowici tanned and matched first-
grade leather, and with all joints and plys water-
proof cemented, every Ludowici Leather Belt is
guaranteed replacement free against defective
workmanship and material. Made and guaranteed by
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON LTD.
POWER TRANSMISSION ENGINEERS
117 York Street, Sydney
20-26 Queen’s Bridge Street, South Melbourne.
mm
mm
mmm.
mm*
mm
m
mm
mmmm
. s
msm
mm*
mm
...: «
L
urn
fllli
W&Mmm
ms.
UNI
■
m- WMWmi
wfw4%
m
mm
mm
m
m
it
ix'xKWsX;:*.
m
fPIlffl
AERTEX
Hi
p-««*
Mi
STRA
Your Garment is
not Aertex unless
it bears this label.
Aertex gives you more tireless energy. The secret
lies in the amazing and unique cellular weave which
neither imitation nor competition has ever equalled
in its power of promoting health. For Aertex lets
the body breathe, is never stuffy, is cool on hot
summer days, and yet, amazingly, is warm when a
cold wind springs up from nowhere. Sports shirts
in wide array, day shirts, underwear, can all be
obtained in the famous Aertex.
Stocked by all good Men’s Stores and Drapers .
GAME FOR
ANYTHING-
IN AERTEX
us
m
B
l*f
*£.W
milt
m
*%r*
mm.
mm
*si
mm
m
i ::
A »•*>
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office: Ocean House, 32 Martin Place, Sydney
Invested Funds exceed £500,000.
All classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
VICTORIAN BRANCH: Temple Court, 422-24 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH: Primary Building, Creek & Adelaide Sts., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. G. BROWN, General Manager.
IT
luJe^tinctxfo
Wise investors desire their investments to fulfil
two cardinal requirements:—
Safety of principal.
Regular income.
An interest bearing deposit with the Union Bank
meets these requirements. It is an investment
that is not subject to market fluctuations, and in
addition, interest commences from the date of
lodgment.
Full details of this simple and sound method of
investing, whether the amount is large or small,
will readily be supplied to you at any of the
Bank's Branches.
UNION BANK
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Established 1837.
Incorporated in England 1880
Br an c hes throughout Australia
and New
Zealand
bushel as against 3s. 7.7 d. for the pre-
ceding year. The demand for super,
strengthened, a slightly better selling
price was obtained, and distribution
costs were lighter. The three fertiliser
manufacturing cos. in S. Aus. decided
to go on the market together, and a
jointly-owned selling co., which handles
factory outputs on a quota basis, was
formed for the purpose, thus eliminating
price-cutting and reducing overhead.
Owing to heavy rebates the Geelong
plant showed a small loss (less than
one-third of the previous year’s), which
the board hopes to eliminate during
the current term. The spring in
gross earnings from all sources (£59,603)
was £39,191. Exes. (£40,515) took only
£3631 of the increase. The profit was
£19,087 as against a loss of £16,472 for
the previous year. That leaves out of
the reckoning £2500 of bad debts recov-
ered. The £19,087 was enough to pay
the pref. div. and show 2 p.c. on ord.
capital.
As for the current term, the co. re-
ports increased demand for fertilisers.
But the price of grain, for export
dropped to 4s. a bushel last
week-end. Also costs are on the
up-grade. Still, prospects of the co. mak-
ing a better showing at next balance are
encouraging. However, competition and
uncertainty concerning the future of
wheat prices, upon which sales of fer-
tiliser partly depend, make the scrip a
more or less speculative investment.
At 19s. the 6 p.c. cum. prefs. yield 6.3
p.c., and last year’s profit was approxi-
mately three times their annual re-
quirements. The ords. at 7s. lOd. would
return 6.3 p.c. on a 2\ p.c. distribution.
The net tangible cover (book value) is
£7 ss. 4d. prefs. and 225. Id. ords.
The financial structure looks a lot
heavier than it did seven years ago,
thanks to reduction of debtors’ balances
and outside liabilities:
1930. 1935. 1936. 1937.
Paid capital.. £734,574 £734,679 £734,679 £734,679
Liabilities .. 498,433 132,709 180,600 256,466
Freeholds and) f
plant 608,211 ] 453,735 463,769 509,485
Stocks .. J L 136,818 95,414 123,739
Shares in other
cos. .. 90,000 90,000 90,000 90,005
Advances to W.A.
co 78,620
Debtors .. 602,375 209,468 237,471 202,930
Cash, etc. . . 939 61,043 89,169 140,458
To add £45,716 to plant, £28,325 to
stocks and strengthen cash, etc., by
£51,289, debtors’ balances were reduced
by £34,541, and £75,866 was added to
outside liabilities last year. Of these
liabilities, £95,862 (up £73,641) was com-
ing to the Westralian co., for which the
parent acts as banker.
The Westralian co. is making a better
showing than the parent, thanks largely
to absence of aggressive competition:
CRESCO FERTILIZER (W.A.).
Net , Dividends -,To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1935.. 13,459 6 p.c. 4 p.c. 13,050 409 i. 0,728
Unexplained addition, £3500 .. .. 14,228
1936.. 6 p.c. 4 p-c. 13,057 13,307
Unexplained addition, £4OOO .. .. 17,307
Tax reserve disclosed. £7500 .. .. 9,807
1937.. 20,719 6 p.c. 5 p.c. 15,885 4,834 15,641
Last year’s net result (up £8583) was
sufficient to pay the pref. div. and show
6.6 p.c. on £288,064 of ord. capital. The
div. was lifted from 4 p.c. to 5 p.c., and
better is expected for the current term,
At June 30 more or less liquids totalled
£210,093, and there was only £4595 com-
ing to outsiders.
Port Swettenham Rubber
Net t Dividends N To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Pref. Ord. Amt. serves, serves,
1927.. 7,595 s p.c. 8 p.e. = 7,200 395 6951
1928.. 2,945 s „ Nil „ 3,080 6816
illl:: 4, 133 4 P !c. Nii P ‘ C '= 1*540 Z 3992
Loss.
1932.'.’ 1*873 Nil Nil ” Z Z
1933.. *612 Nil Nil ” 182
Exchange fluctuation reserve, £707 .. 889
Profit.
1934.. 2,280 Nil Nil = 2280 3169
1935.. 2,806 13 p.c. Nil 5 005 970
1936.. 1',809 7 „ Nil „ 2 695 84
1937.. 8,556 21 „ Nil „ B*oBs 471 555
„”, ” ’
Few commodities have had a more
cheauered curppr thin rnbbpr* Tbic on
cnequerea career man ruooer. inis 2/-
year-old Melbourne-controlled concern,
s? jSfisr j ,he F r s -„ sold Z
<r £ f ii 9d ’H P ound ’ and P aid a
lp P Tb ’ f I dby an ° ther ° f 1°
Courts^nd”a cyclone,^benight^second
P “a"'ed
Se ords Fad a .o”g S sFeK.il the
Stevenson scheme, which came into
operation after the war, pushed up the
?^,F £ T rUbb d er - fi TOW rU h ri° Se s£ £
1925 the London figure shot up to 4s.sid.
P b e v r }’h 0 e U mii I I Wa o f b m« to a Tfl d ! S -
by the middle of 1926, and fluctuated
m77 nd Tb C 10 -7 e t r I t vel U i? td t s e end °H
JSJ- took a sharp downward
abandoned a/the beghmmg^c trfNovem-
ber, 1928. Rapid increase in production
was followed by slump, and the price
fell to lfd. per pound (less than half
cost of production to most growers)
about the middle of 1932. In April,
1934, the British and Dutch Govern-
ments agreed to a four-year restriction-
of-output plan. Thus the growth of
stocks was checked, and, with the re-
covery of the motor trade, demand in-
creased, the price of rubber strengthened
and the Port Swettenham Co. resumed
payment of its pref. divs. in 1935.
The following table shows what has
happened:—
Rubber Rubber
June Yield, Av. Price June Yield, Av. Price
30, lb. Realised. 30, lb. Realised.
1926. . 219,032 30.5 d. 1932.. 510,052 1.86 d.
1927.. 269,924 17.8 d. 1933.. 517,130 1.97 d.
1928.. 214,077 14.2 d. 1934.. 454,400 sd.
1929.. 385,666 8.92 d. 1935.. 383,540 7.5 d.
1930.. 340,300 6.81 d. 1936.. 283,500 B.od.
1931.. 471,976 2.97 d. 1937.. 351,700 11.6 d.
For the 12 months to June *3O last per-
missible exports averaged 71 p.c. of
assessment, and the co. received export
credits for 317,0221 b.; most of the
balance of production was sold by buy-
ing export rights. The bigger output
(up 68,2001 b.), lower costs (the all-in
figure was 6. Id. as against 6.7 d. for the
previous term) and the lift in the aver-
age price realised (up 3.6 d.) are reflected
in a spring of £6747 in net earnings
(£8556). The prefs. received 21 p.c.,
leaving 19 p.c. (£7315 = 3s. 94d. per
share) still to come to clean the slate.
How the current term will pan out it
is difficult to say at the moment. The
quota for the December half of 1937
is 90 p.c. But the London price for best
(Continued on next page.)


Public Notice.
C ORESTRY BONDS. —I pay up to £5 more
t per bond than other buyers for N.Z. Per-
petual Forests Bonds.—R. F. CORMACK, 440
Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
If you have ores for sale write:—
NORMAN HILL & CO. PTY. % LTD.,
Cathcart House, Sydney.
Buyers: Gold ores and concentrates, Silver Lead
ores, Molybdenite, Seheelite, Wolfram, Tin ores,
etc., etc.
SAM. B. BAGLEY,
Stock and Share Broker
(Member of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne).
Normanby Chambers,
430 Little Collins Street,
Melbourne, C.l.
’Phone: Cent. 872 (3 lines).
Cable and Telegraphic Address:
“YelgabMelbourne.
OPERATING RESULTS OF TIN PRODUCING COMPANIES
UNDER THE MANAGEMENT OF
LONDON TIN CORPORATION, LTD.
For the Quarter ended 30th September, 1937.
INVENTORS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 422
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). —Advt.
* * * *
AUSTRALASIAN timberlands and plantation
valuation surveys, milling plants, certification of
shipments. L. MACINTOSH ELLIS, B.Sc. (late
Director State Forest Service, New Zealand), Consult-
ing Forest Engineer, 8 Bond Street. Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
For the best value in all ENGINEERS’ TOOLS —
William Adams & Company, Ltd. These tools are
fully illustrated and priced in our 1935 General
Catalogue. Write to 175 Clarence Street, Sydney,
for your free copy.— Advt.
* * * *
RARE MINERALS AND METALS—Ask O. T.
LEMPRIERE & CO. PTY., LTD., Collins House,
Melbourne, and Bowden Street, Alexandria, Sydney,
for advice regarding value and marketing of rare
minerals and metals.— Advt.
The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Company, Limited
Caitlereagh Street and Martin Place,
SYDNEY.
Founded 1886.
The M.L.G. has money to lend on
first-class securities at lowest current
rates of interest.
APPLICATIONS INVITED.
ASSETS EXCEED £25,000,000
ANNUAL INCOME EXCEEDS
£3,500,000
Arthur Eedy, C.8.E.,
Managing Director.
\V. J. Bloomfield, 8.A., LL.B.,
Joint Managing Director.
SEND YOUR
ENQUIRIES FOR
MINING MACHINERY
STAMP BATTERIES
CONCENTRATORS
MAGNETIC SEPARATORS
AMALGAMATING TABLES
WATER FILTERS
EVERLASTING VALVES
ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT
MOTORS AND SWITCHGEAR
GARBAGE DESTRUCTORS
ALL CLASSES OF TOOLS.
GUTHRIDGE Pty. Limited,
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
Sydney.
plantation, which touched Is. Id. in
March, was a shade under 7d. per pound
last week-end, and plantation wages were
lifted shortly before the close of last
accounts. Still, for the first half of 1937
consumption ran ahead of production,
and world stocks last month were esti-
mated to be equal to not more than four
months’ consumption. But consumption
has lately slackened; much depends
upon the extent to which it revives, and
that in turn partly depends upon what
happens in the U.S.A. Also, the restric-
tion scheme expires in March, 1938, but
renewal on similar lines is anticipated.
On an annual output of 350,0001 b.,
and with rubber averaging 9d. and costs
at the co. could wipe out arrears
of pref. divs. within the next couple of
years.
The fully-paid 8 p.c. cum. par. prefs.
at 235. retdrn 7 p.c., plus arrears. The
ords. at Bs. 6d. would return 7 p.c. on
a 3 p.c. distribution. The net tangible
cover is 525. 2d. prefs. and 17s. 7d. ords.,
all in rubber estates, worth what they
will earn.
Consumers’ Oxy-lectric Welding
Consumers’ Oxy-lectric Welding Sup-
plies, Ltd., has been registered in Sydney
to manufacture industrial gases for use in
the welding, steel-cutting, edible-fats and
chemical manufacturing industries, and
also oxygen, nitrous oxide and other
gases for medical use. In addition, the
co. will handle electric welding and spray-
ing equipment, etc. Sole Australian dis-
tributing rights for the Herkenrath metal-
spraying gun have been acquired, and
tentative arrangements have been made
with British and Continental manufac-
turers of electric welding machines, etc.,
to import their products under license
and to manufacture them, should demand
warrant.
At present one co. has virtually a
monopoly of the industrial gas and ac-
cessories business here. This new co.
is being formed by a number of con-
sumers who, on account of high
prices, decided to manufacture their
own requirements. Nominal capital is
£lOO,OOO in 25,000 £1 8 p.c. cum. prefs.
(rights not stated) and 75,000 £1 ords.
Public is invited to take the prefs., which
are to be listed ; 35,000 ords. are offered
to consumers. Transfer of the ords. is
to be restricted in order to keep the busi-
ness under independent control. Allot-
ment may be proceeded with on sub-
scription of 20,000 shares.
Though the prospectus does not say
so, it is intended to distribute oxygen
and hydrogen gas to large consumers by
pipeline, thereby eliminating handling
and other charges connected with gas
containers. The works will be at Alex-
andria, and the necessary franchise has
been obtained from the local council.
Though new to the Commonwealth,
the reticulation system has proved
itself in densely industrialised areas
in England, America and on the
Continent. R. Welch, who will manage
the undertaking, estimates that the cost
of a reticulation scheme to handle, say,
5,000,000 c.f. of gas p.a. will be less than
the outlay necessary to provide cylinders,
etc., for a similar quantity.
Assuming that all gases will be dis-
tributed in cylinders, the prospectus
figures the capital outlay at £45,857 —
electrolytic-type oxygen-hydrogen plant
(capacity 8,000,000 c.f. oxygen, 16,000,000
c.f. hydrogen p.a.), including two gas-
ometers, £18,482; 2,000,000-c.f.-p.a.
acetylene plant, £3OOO ; 5000 gas-con-
tainers, £16,375 ; engineering workshop,
£3OOO ; stocks of welding supplies, £5OOO.
Provided all the money asked for comes
in, that would leave £14,143 for work-
ing capital and contingencies, not all of
which is expected to be required. The
makers guarantee that the plant will
produce oxygen 99.6 p.c. to 99.8 p.c.
pure and hydrogen 99.95 p.c. to 100 p.c.
pure.
On sale of 7,000,000 c.f. of oxygen,
5,000,000 c.f. hydrogen (both at 4s. 6d.
per 100 c.f.) and 2,000,000 c.f. acetylene,
of which practically every manufacturer
in metals is a consumer, at 14s. per 100
c.f., income is figured at £53,000 annu-
ally, including £12,000 gross profit from
sale of welding equipment, etc. Produc-
tion costs (full-time working) are put at
£31,539, including £6129 for depreciation
on plant and cylinders. After earmark-
ing £2577 for the taxgatherer, net earn-
ings of £9722 are looked for, which
would cover the annual preference
charge nearly five times. Capital and
production costs have been independently
checked by G. L. D. James and Ernest
Kuenzli and Co., consulting engineers.
It is a clean float, and the success of
the venture will largely depend upon the
number of consumers the co. is able to
connect up to its reticulation. Since the
ord. shares, and therefore control, will
be held by those in the trade, the propo-
sition is of a semi-co-operative nature.
On the board are E. E. H. Ford, Jack
O’Riordan, F. Le Roy-Tracy, E. A.
Goldsmid and R. Welch. Two more are
to be appointed.
“Quidam”: Instead of concentrating
on Pinus insignis, the N. S. Wales
Forestry Department would do well
to consider planting any quick-growing
native timber for coalmine props. The
supply is already becoming a serious
question. Even at Sunny Corner, Caper-
tee, which used to be looked on
as out of the question for Lith-
gow pit props, available timber for
the purpose has been cut out. Prices
have risen, and seem likely to continue
to do so. Practically any sort of timber
is taken, provided it is straight and about
sin. to 7in. in diameter. People who
would have scoffed at the idea a few
years ago are talking seriously of grow-
ing gum, peppermint, stringybark and
suchlike indigenous trees for props on
poor mountain country.
* * * *
Metal Options (Broken Hill), Ltd.,
which recently came on the market for
£12,500 to test a property about seven
miles east of the South mine at the
Barrier (N.S.W.), has sunk No. 1 shaft
20ft. on the hanging wall of the lode.
Pegmatite and manganiferous ironstone,
associated with galena, are showing
underfoot. A costeen to the south-east
of the shaft shows pegmatite associated
with green felspar. Diamond-drilling is
expected to commence in about six
weeks’ time.
* * * *
For the first quarter (July-Sept.) of
its current financial year, Lake View and
Star’s working surplus approximated
£142,000. Oct. surplus was little short
of £53,000. Capital expenditure for the
three-month period was £18,702, and for
Oct. £6085. During the quarter 2000 ft.
of diamond-drilling was done on the
western group (Ivanhoe, Horseshoe and
Chaffers), and about the same length of
boring on the eastern group (Lake View
and Associated). In the western group
encouraging results were disclosed on
2240 ft. and 2360 ft. levels in the north end
of the Horseshoe. At the 2240 ft. level a
west hole from No. 2 lode met with 64in.
of ore, assaying 9.2dwt. From the
1400 ft. level of Lake View in the western
group a bore went out south-west for
237 ft. From 200 ft. to 206ift. the core
averaged 24.7dwt. a ton. Outstand-
ing results in other parts of the
properties include exposure of payable
values over satisfactory widths at
the 600 ft. and 800 ft. levels of the Asso-
ciated, 3020 ft. and 700 ft. levels of the
Horseshoe, and below the 800 ft. level of
Chaffers. Appearances are that the Lake
View mines are capable of yielding
nearly 14 million pounds (Aust.) worth of
gold annually for many years yet.
* * *
Developments at Cox’s Find, Erlistoun
(WA) continue encouraging. Three
levels have been opened out, the lode
being proved for 140 ft., averaging
46.7dwt. over 10ft., at 90ft. level, for
143 ft., averaging 23.3dwt. over 12ft., at
180 ft. level, while lift, of ore, of
which bulk samples have yielded 48dwt.
per ton, is being driven on at 317 ft.
level. Winzes put down in the middle
of the ore-shoot between the levels have
also indicated high values. Mining and
treatment (now got back to 555. 4d. a
ton) are still expensive, as is cost
of development (19s. per ton of ore
treated to date). But the grade of ore
can stand it, and further reduction in
costs is looked for now the plant is
run in and treating around 1500 tons of
ore monthly. From beginning of pro-
duction in June, 1936, to Sept. 30 last,
18,943 tons ore (head value 18.14dwt.)
was milled for 16,0950 z. fine gold, an
average recovery of 17dwt. It has been
difficult to avoid dilution of ore with
soft graphitic schist and other sedimen-
tary rocks. At the end of Sept. 14,300
tons of stuff had been proved, but
the lode has been only partly de-
veloped below No. 2 level. Central
Gold, which has a quarter-interest in the
mine, will distribute 3d. a share on its
35.-paids on Dec. 20, and the directors
anticipate Is. a share annually will soon
be within reach ; 6d. was sent out last
term. The shares are at 2s. sd. in
Adelaide
* * * *
Prospects of South Kalgurli (W.A.),
which for a time appeared dim, continue
to brighten Not long ago the 1900 ft.
level in the South Kalgurli block showed
an improvement. Later the manager re-
ported aboye-mine-average values in the
Hai ? t 91’• a ! th ? h l3so£t J3 v S, a ?
ore-body 217 ft. in length averaged 9dwt.
over a width of 9ft This shoot has been
since proved for a length of 224 ft with
ore still in the face. A shilling div. is
due in January, and a further 2s. 6d. at
least is expected by July next.
* * * *
Tmdals Gold Mines says that, follow-
ing a favorable report from the State
Mining Engineer, the Westralian Govern-
, , „ „ , •, pm aaa
ment has agreed to guarantee it £30,000.
The money is wanted for further de-
velopment of the co.’s mine. A condi-
firm nf thp r,nvpmmpnl’c onarantpp ic
lion Ol tne tjovernment S guarantee is
installation of a 10,000-ton-a-month
treatment plant. To finance this, the CO.
will have to raise at least £50,000. In the
present state of the market, the puzzle
is where is the money to come from.
a, * *
Ora Banda Amalg. (W.A.) has sig-
nailed another 6d. div., payable Dec. 22,
making Is a share (£20,000) to date for
tllC Clirrcnt term. In tne 1U months to
the end of October, 13,545 tons of ore
was taken out of the Giant s Patch minw
for £60,915 worth of yellow metal, aver-
age recovery being 10.3dwt. Latest two
monthly crushings, however, have yielded
under nine ’weights per ton. At the end
of March last proved ore reserves were
put at 20,000 tons going 11.5dwt.
* * * *
Associated Mining and Finance will
pay Bd. on each of its million shares on
Nov. 30. There are a few holders in
Australia. Formed in 1925 to acquire
the Canadian interests of Associated
Gold Mines of W.A., now liquidated, and
to carry on as a mining and finance con-
cern, the co. is largely interested in
Lake View, Wiluna, Golden Horse Shoe
and Gold Fields Australian Develop-
ment. The market value of its invest-
ments at the date of the last balance
was roughly half a million sterling, and
cash totalled £54,000.
* * * *
The board of London-controlled
Youanmi speaks of hitherto unknown
high-grade sulphide ore-bodies and addi-
tions to ore reserves on its East Murchi-
son property (W.A.). Generally pros-
pects are said to have “much increased
expectations.” An addition to the sul-
phide treatment plant is being made.
Lord Lee of Farnham is chairman, and
L. C. Amery, formerly Dominions Sec-
retary, is on the board.
* * * *
Sons of Gwalia has announced a 2s. 6d.
div. payable Dec. 21. The mine is the
deepest in the West outside Kalgoorlie.
Operations are being carried on down
to an inclined depth of 4600 ft.;
£8,000,000 worth of gold has so far been
extracted from the property, and share-
holders have received £1,500,000 in divs.
* * * *
At Golden Mile Block 45 (W.A.) ex-
penditure for the year to July 31 last
exceeded receipts by £4778. There was
£260 coming to outsiders, and only some
petty cash in the till. Optimistic refer-
ences to ore visible and otherwise are
again made. But the news behind the
news suggests that the mine isn’t good
enough for a co.


SMOKE-OH!
They also surf who only “sand” and
wade.
4 1 4* 4* 4*
“Supposing a leader like Lang had to go to
England to ask for finance. What would
happen?— “S. M. Herald.”
England wouldn’t even lend an ear
to him.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“When he was dying he called for a tankard
of beer. Having signed his will, he finished off
the beer and in a few minutes was dead.”
— “Sun.”
His last swill and testament.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Efforts should be made to kill such vermin
at least twice a day.”— “D.T.”
Well, if that doesn’t finish them,
nothing will.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Wet Money.
“Rum was used as currency in the early days
of Australian settlement.” — News item.
Those were the days when cash used
to burn a hole in your “rumbag” or
waterproof pocket. You could always
pick a retired convict in funds by the
way he swished his small change in it
with his hand!
Going across the harbor on the ferry
was an ordeal to those not used to it.
They would hand their purse for pay-
ment to the oarsmen who would take a
gulp instead of a swig apiece, and the
only change they’d get would be a
hiccup.
I can remember going into an ale-
house for a schooner of colonial beer.
Bung had change for a hogshead of
rum, but it was all in pints and
drachms. Ever had a pocketful of
treybits? Well that’s like an empty
pocket compared to a keg of drachms.
At one time there was a counterfeit
scare. Every second quart never saw
the Government distillery, and a man
had to be continually sipping his small
change to test it. It was this that brought
about its dissolution. During the worst
scare of spurious currency the popu-
lation of Sydney Town went mad. They
sipped so much that it gradually de-
pleted the stocks, and was inflated with
water by the Government Distiller in a
fit of sabotage, throwing trade into con-
fusion, and firkins into fits. The stock
was once more watered, got too weak,
and died.
Yes, it was a “rum” currency. We’ve
still got the headache and the hangover!
R. B.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Have nearly finished the first bottle and
really believe (after eight years) am getting re-
lief.”—Testimonial in Melbourne “Herald.”
If they’d only put beer in a bottle like
that!
4* 4* 4* 4*
“The suspect lumped three fences and suc-
ceded in eluding the police.”— “D.T.”
The pursuing cop, who is recognised
as the champion strong man of the force,
went livid with envy.
Mixed.
“There is now more loan extravagance; our
budgets are not really squared. We will never
square our budgets until the well runs dry.”
— “Sun” correspondent.
A little nonsense is thrice armed,
To mix the wise saws up!
It’s no good making mountains out
Of storms within a cup.
Look not the gift horse on the horns
Or over good wine cry :
Oh, we never square our Budgets till
T he — well — runs—dry.
Percy Pawnticket.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“The tension over the unsatisfactory Euro-
pean situation has been considerably relieved
following Lord Halifax’s visit to Germany.”
From Hell to Halifax!
“To the valet who came to the door Basil
presented his carp, but the servant just stared
at him.” — Short story.
Evidently there was something fishy
about him.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“An instrument that can measure to a
5,000,000 th of an inch has been invented.”
That must be the new gadget that
Bung uses to measure out our nobblers.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“A bad-tempered woman should take up
knitting as a spare-time occupation.
—Magazine item.
Even then she’d probably get her wool
off too easily.
4- 4* * 4*
A soft answer may turn away wrath,
but a soft drink turneth away friends.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Sammy Stein and Cox had each gained a
fall when Cox was disqualified for strangling.
When Cox realised what had happened he
became violet in the extreme.”
—The “West Australian.
Purple with rage, in fact.
•f* *2* *l* *l*
“In only one case out of ten in these razor-
slashings is the victim prepared to give infor-
mation.” — “Sun.”
In other words, bled men tell no tales.
4* 4* 4 1
“He pawned his wife’s belongings _and made
no effort to get them back.” — “Sun.”
In fact, he lacked a redeeming virtue.
Customs, Inhabitants and Industries
of Our Great Outback.
The gathering of wild and the culti-
vation of tame mushrooms is a most
remunerative sideline for many of our
men-on-the-land. Nor is it to be assumed
that this activity is confined only to
those struggling cockies who operate in
a small way ; some of our really wealthy
graziers make use of this bounteous gift
of Nature and devote the proceeds of
the sale of the luscious vegetable—or is
it a fruit? —to liquidating in part arrears
of their mortgage interest.
In our temperate climate the mush-
room {mush, prob. ref. to appearance
when cooked ; room, fr. A.S. adj. rum,
meaning taste) grows not only with amaz-
ing speed but also to an incredibly large
size—“as big as dinner-plates!”
True, none of this size is ever to be
seen in any city shop, but this is doubt-
less due to the fact that they are snapped
up almost as soon as, if not before, they
are put in the windows for sale.
As with whisky, which, according to
Scotsmen, is all good, though they will
grudgingly admit that some brands are
better than others, so our mushrooms
vary only in the degree of their large-
ness.
In Gippsland gatherers have to employ a
forest devil to hoist the mushrooms from
their natural element; in the Westralian
wheat-belt they are forced to quarry
beneath them and use a crosscut saw to
get through the taproot; on the rich
coastal tableland of N.S.W., where the
heavy rainfall assures them vigorous
growth, mushrooms are dragged out by
horsemen using lassos, and in tropical
Queensland it takes several hacks with
a razor-edged canecutter’s knife to get
through the thick stalks.
An incident which occurred to a stock-
man on Tassie’s east coast, however,
gives an idea not only of their size but
of their speed of growth in that State,
which, as all Apple Islanders will testify,
possesses the richest and most omni-
ferous soil in the Commonwealth. He
had got off his horse to remove a stone
from its hoof, and noticed that right
under the prad’s belly was a fair-sized
mushroom which he thought would
just about fit in the sugar-bag he was
carrying. Making a mental note to pick
it before resuming his ride, he turned
to examine the hoof. His attention was
momentarily distracted by opening his
14-blade knife. When he bent down to
raise the animal’s off hind leg it wasn’t
there, though the front legs were in their
proper position. The mushroom had
raised the hind part of the horse clean
off the ground.
Although it would appear that the
mushroom, with its pale-pink underwear
and ivory-white top, could easily be dis-
tinguished from other fungus growths,
considerable trouble is often experienced
in differentiating it from some types of
poisonous toadstool. Where any doubt
exists the cocky invariably makes it a
point of honor never to send these to
market with those he is certain are mush-
rooms. At the same time it is abhor-
rent to his nature to throw away some-
thing that might be the genuine thing.
His usual procedure, therefore, is to col-
lect a quantity of these dubious growths
and put a few of them in to be cooked
for household use. He then comes in
late for breakfast next morning. If
nobody has turned a bilious green or is
groping for the door with a pained,
pinched look he can
set about cheerfully
and unconcernedly
eating them himself,
happy in the know-
ledge that the rest of
them can be given
to the porkers with-
out the slightest fear
of their health
being impaired.
Mushrooms can
also be easily culti-
vated from spawn,
but as this usually
necessitates the use
of a disused rail-
way tunnel or an old
mine shaft only
those farmers who
have one of these conveniences running
through their property use this method
of augmenting the Taxation Department’s
revenue.
First the floor of the tunnel has to be
ploughed to a depth of several feet and
then harrowed until the ground is re-
duced to a fine tilth. Unless the tunnel
is suitably floodlit with daylight lamps
ordinary farm horses may jib at toiling in
these unnatural surroundings and pit-
ponies may have to be hired.
The “bricks” of spawn are then placed
in the soil ; they can be set in English or
Flemish bond, according to aesthetic taste,
but no mortar must on any account be
used, as the freedom-loving mushroom
violently dislikes circumscribed growth.
The bricks are saturated with boil-
ing water to create heat, which is then
conserved by covering with straw and
stable refuse. As any variation beyond
4deg. Fahrenheit will cause severe pal-
pitation in young mushrooms, thermo-
meters must be installed every few inches.
The thermometers have to be hammered
into the bricks. Although this culture
entails considerable work mushrooms
have even been known to be raised by it.
Other highly-profitable sidelines ex-
ploited by the go-ahead farmer are the
gathering of five-corners and geebungs,
both of which rare and edible fruits are
in constant demand by gastronomes.
Care has to be taken to see that gee-
bungs are picked when still green—if
eaten ripe the delicious flavor is lost.
The gathering of a dipperful of five-
corners will, if the pasturage among
which they nestle be long, entail a minute
search and cost the cocky three pairs of
strides worn out at the knees and severe
eye-strain. But it is well worth it.
Clover also can be the source of un-
expected income for the man who has a
good crop of this fodder. Superstitious
lottery addicts and women punters will
pay handsomely for a four-leafed clover,
and this inducement is often sufficient to
urge many cockies to even sacrifice a
couple of hours off their daily discussion
on crop prospects with the bloke on the
next block to conduct a search for this
elusive rarity.
S. W. K.
To Everywoman.
“Beauty consciousness is a thing which
woman should develop.”— “Sunday Sun.”
Since you’ll agree that beauty is
An asset worth a woman’s care,
It’s obvious your duty is
To cultivate both face and hair
And figure free of needless flesh.
That schoolgirl blush you must regain
At any cost, and look as fresh
As frangipanni after rain.
Your rounded throat should be snow-
white
And velvet-soft; your eyes should
shine
As stars upon a summer’s night;
Your lips should be a joy divine
To sight and touch. Believe me, strive
For fragrant loveliness that tops
The daffodils, for, madam, I’ve
Just bought a chain of chemist shops !
P.O.M.C.
Modem Romance.
She sat on his lap in the twilight, her
soft cheek resting against his. The ghost
of a beer, which he could have exorcised
with “Sprey Breath,” haunted his person,
but her perception was dulled by a
slight cold, which could have been pre-
vented by “Chillies for Chills.”
Fondly stroking his head, she dis-
lodged a snowstorm of dandruff (quickly
“I’m not going to let a little thing like this beat me.”
cured by “Dandy Ruff’s Lotion”), which
speckled his suit with white; but merci-
fully the darkness hid this. Her glossy
hair, he noticed, reflected the slight
western glow, for she was a decided
blonde, having that very day enlisted the
help of “Blondylox.”
Their lips met softly, then parted (see
Boob’s Kissing Technique; 2s. 6d.).
“Darling,” she whispered (see Nancy
Nitwit’s Lovemaking for Learners”;
9d. post free).
“Confound it, woman,” he cried lick-
ing his lips, “you’ve used the wrong
flavor!”
C.V.S.
A Sure Remedy.
“A doctor says that if the ears were always
kept slightly moist there would be less deaf-
ness.”
We’ve been worried much of late, for
our youngest kid {he’s eight)
Has undoubtedly been getting hard of
hearing;
Now, of course, we know just why, for
his lugs are always dry,
As he’ll never wash ’em. Still, this
news is cheering.
His affliction we’ll forget, for we know
he’ll soon be set
With the simplest of all treatments;
and the reason
We need entertain no fears for the state
of Johnny’s ears
Is that shortly it’s the water-melon
season !
BO.


Yarra Falls at 38s. 6d.
With conditions generally uncer-
tain, investments giving a good
return are sought, provided that the
return seems to be reasonably well
assured. Yarra Falls paid an
average of 8.6 p.c. over the last 10
years, with a lowest div. of 5 p.c.
in 1931. It is the largest textile
enterprise in the Commonwealth,
finances are sound, and if Aus-
tralia’s external income shrinks by
reason of lower prices for land
products, reduced spending power
will be partly offset in Y.F.’s case
by a reduction in imported textiles.
At 38s. 6d., down about 4s. 6d. on
this year’s highest ex rights price,
yield is 5.2 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div.
basis.
ŀ
COMFORT —For case whilst telephoning the handset
is all that could be desired. It is ideal as a bedside
telephone.
CONVENIENCE —The freedom of movement which
the handset allows is particularly convenient when
consulting papers or making notes during a con-,
versation.
SMALL COST —And it costs only 2d. per week more
than an instrument of the ordinary pedestal type.
16
Itr au
The Department will gladly replace your existing
telephones with handsets. There is no replacement fee .
Telephone or write to the Superintendent, Telephone Branch, General Post
Office, and your wishes will be attended to promptly.
Business,Rollery,Etc.
What Are Golden Plateau Values?
Anyone trying to puzzle out the extent
and value of ore reserves at Golden
Plateau (Cracow, Q.) is in for a head-
ache if he relies on published statements.
It has been a great little mine to date:
production £927,000, divs. £609,000. Also
it has been well run on the mining side.
One doesn’t expect the future to be de-
fined as clearly as the past, but prospects
might be put a lot more lucidly than
they were by the acting-chairman at the
annual meeting.
At balance day general-manager Miller
said ore reserves were 237,300 tons, con-
taining 76,9120 z. (average 6.5dwt.); if,
he added, quantities and values were
maintained to the 444 ft. level (now being
developed), the two principal shoots
should produce a further 50,000 or
60,0000 z. fine gold.
At the annual meeting in Melbourne
(27 /10/’37) both the “Argus” and “Age”
reported acting-chairman T. R. Victor
as having stated that, when the 444 ft.
level was developed, the co. should
have enough ore to keep the plant going
on 5500 tons a month for seven years.
This item doesn’t appear in the report
of the meeting printed and put out with
the apparent authority of Stringer and
Phillips Pty., the co.’s legal managers.
In the latter account of proceedings,
Mr. Victor is credited with having said
the board’s opinion was that average-
grade ore should be treated in future
(previously ore was selected), and that
when the 5500-ton-a-month mark was
reached, monthly yields would vary very
little from those of the present. That
indicates recoveries of about 7.3dwt.
Later Mr. Victor said that, including
ore at 444 ft., the board felt confident that
grade of all reserves would average
about Bdwt.
Then there was another set of figures.
Mr. Victor speaking:
In view of the developments to date at
No. 3 level, the management and your
board confidently expect that, when all the
shoots are fully developed, an additional
50,0000 z. of gold at least will be added to
what we have in reserve, which to-day
totals about 69,0000 z.
Delving into all these estimates and
statements, the mining investor gleans
the following information:
(a) General manager estimates ore reserves
at last balance day 237,300 tons averaging
6.sdwt.
(b) “Argus”-“Age” report that Mr. Victor
anticipated seven years’ life, 5500-tons-a-month
basis, presupposes about 450,000 tons likely.
If 69,0000 z. proved and 50,0000 z. prob-
able is extent of gold content, then average
value on this basis is about s.3dwt.
(c) Mr. Victor says board; feels confident that
values, including present ore, down to 444 ft.
will average Bdwt.
{d) Mr. Victor says that monthly yields in
future on treatment of 5500 tons a month
“will vary , very little, from what they are at
present.” At present about 2000 oz. a month
is being won; this indicates a future recovery
of 7.3dwt.
What is wanted now is a statement of
ore values to define all other statements
of ore values. If what the “Argus”
and “Age” both reported about a seven-
years life is wrong, it should be officially
denied. If it is right, then explanations
are indicated.
Australian recovery from slump
started earlier than in most countries,
and —touching wood—it seems to be last-
ing longer. One reason is that we are a
growing nation ; another is that costs and
prices haven’t run up to silly figures,
though plenty have favored boosting;
still another is that overseas borrowing
isn’t keeping our. factory employees out
of jobs. Things certainly aren’t as stable
as they were, but if climbing figures are
checked an even keel may perhaps be
kept.
* * * *
The fall in export prices—wool, wheat
and metals are all affected —is likely to
mean a smaller favorable trade balance
this term and tighter credit conditions.
Interest rates may go higher, and im-
ports may have to be curbed. When
the shoe starts thus to pinch there is
usually a clamor to start overseas bor-
rowing. It must not start.
* * * *
Shares in woolbroking cos. went on a
gentle slide last week. Goldsbrough,
Morts drifted to near 325. (they were at
395. 6d. last March), and Winchcombe,
Carsons faded to 31s. 6d. (after 365., ex
rights, in July). When wool collapsed
early in 1935 (and it was a slump, after
a short burst of very high quotes), market
prices of 10 Sydney-listed pastoral stocks
fell 10 p.c. in three months (Feb.-April),
then steadied; manufacturing and dis-
tributing cos. were marked down 6 p.c.,
retailers 4 p.c., public utilities 3 p.c.; the
average drop was slightly over 4 p.c.
Full recovery was evident within three
months. From that point (June, 1935) to
the end of September, 1937, there was a
net rise of 24 p.c. in prices of manufac-
turing and distributing co. shares, 23 p.c.
in retail cos., a microscopic rise in public
utilities, a lift of 22 p.c. in pastorals, and
4 p.c. in insurance cos. —average rise, 15
p.c. At Oct. 15 last wool was about 26
p.c. higher than in June, 1935. Since
Oct. 15 the staple has drifted closer to
the 1935 rates, and share values have
drifted, too.
* * * *
Evidently the market has been taking
notice of the point made here lately that
B.H. South shares are too high compared
with Norths. On Nov. 9 there was a
difference of 11s. 6d. between their re-
spective quotes; Nov. 11, 12s. 9d.; last
Thursday 15s. 3d. Quotes on the two
last-mentioned days for Norths were
about the same —525. 6d. Souths were
down 2s. 6d. at 375. 6d. In Friday’s
recession relativity between the quotes
was maintained. Souths still seem to be
shillings overpriced compared with
Norths.
* * * *
It is hard to say what is normal, but
metal prices seemed to be unduly high
during the period that lead and spelter
averaged above £22 10s. a ton in London.
The surge to around £35 for these metals
was based on speculative anticipations,
not on demand. Overbought stocks
appear to be now coming to light; it is
hardly likely that producers or their
agents are doing the dumping notice-
able last week. On the pendulum
theory, prices may remain unduly low
just as long as they were unduly high.
Granted a clear-cut policy from the
United States, £2O a ton for lead
shouldn’t be too much to expect when
speculative elements straighten them-
selves out.
* * * *
In the 10 months to Oct. 31 North
Kalgurli treated ore almost equal in quan-
tity to the total for the whole of 1936.
From 112,204 tons, gold worth £378,935
Aust. (675. 6d. a ton, up 9s. 6d.) was
won; working exes, took £158,318
(28s. Id. a ton, down 9d.); working
profit was £220,622 (about 395. sd. a ton,
up about 10s.). This working profit for
the 10 months of 1937 was £57,566 better
than for the whole of 1936. Overhead
exes., taxation, development written off
and depreciation will have to be charged
before the net figure is arrived at, but
mine profit, anyway, should be at least
£lOO,OOO Aust. better than in 1936. Capi-
tal outlay for the 10 months was £34,470.
* * * *
Div.-paying gold stocks have been in
better demand. Golden Plateaus went
to 15s. (cum div.) in Melbourne last
wdek, where North Kals. had a firm
market near 215.; Boulder Persever-
ances kept just above 3s. The healthier
inquiry for Mt. Morgan and Placer
scrip has faded slightly. Shares in
Raub (F.M.S.) are at about 13s. ; latest
div. was 3d., as against 4d. previously.
One of the disappointments now, Raubs
were up to 225. earlier in the year.
Cuthbert’s New Misima are firmer.
* * * *
In the first four months of 1937 sales
by principal Sydney retail stores rose an
average of 5.4 p.c. compared with the
same period of 1936 ; wages paid by the
stores lifted 7.3 p.c. For the four months
to the end of August sales rose 6.3 p.c.,
wages 9 p.c. A year ago the position was
almost the other way round, sales
revenue increasing at a greater rate than
outgo on employees’ account. Increas-
ing costs appear to be one reason for the
present weakness in retail-store scrip.
Ords. in Cash Orders (Amalgamated)
drifted to the lowest price in years last
week. There was a sale of the 125.-paids
at 16s. 9d., the yield available, on a 15
p.c. div. basis, being 10.8 p.c. Fears exist
that legislative action may be taken
against cash-order cos. If there is any
ground for the drop in prices of retailers’
shares also the c.-o. business may also be
in the cart to some extent. The position
depends on whether cash-order costs are
also growing. Turnovers seem to be
increasing.
* * * *
Scrip in neon-sign cos. (B. 10/11 /’37)
was weaker in all States last week. Neon
Electric, in Melbourne, was on offer at
335. after sales at that figure and 345.
in October. Neon Signs, Sydney, didn’t
attract buyers at the sellers’ quote' of
17s. 6d. ; there was a sale at 18s. 6d. in
October. Scrip in Claude Neon, one of
the first cos. in the business, was quoted
475. 6d. sellers, 475. buyers, last sale
48s. Highest quote this year was 555.,
and the present market represents the
lowest.
In Melbourne last week:
Loloma’s board announced that, after an
overhaul by experts, the roaster furnaces at
the mine in Fiji “appeared to be working satis-
factorily.” The scrip slipped to 16s. The
wisdom of feeding the new mill with higher-
than-average-grade ore —2240 z. was absorbed
by the plant during its first run—is questioned
by some.
Mining-share dealings on Monday were
greatly restricted owing to uncertainty of the
overseas situation. Transactions were entered
into more freely on Tuesday and ensuing days.
Souths were the leading counter.
Davies, Coop ords. were firmer at 225.
There was a sale of H. B. Dickie ords. at
255. 9d.
Henry Jones shares sold at 495. 6d. following
announcement of a slightly increased profit
and a 10 p.c. div.
George Farmer prefs. sold at 19s. 6d., re-
turning 8.2 p.c. Though the bacon-curing in-
dustry is having a thin time, this stock looks
interesting.
Holeproof ords. firmed slightly, to 275.


THE PRICE OF BOYCOTT.
On the success or otherwise of the
Communist-Trades Hall boycott move-
ment against Japan will depend the re-
entry of Australia’s second-best overseas
customer into our wool market.
Obviously we cannot expect to retain
the goodwill of a customer if we con-
sciously offer unjustified insult; refuse to
service its ships in our ports, and refuse
to buy its goods because of Communist
allegations of barbarity and wanton
cruelty in warfare.
Those who cry “Hands off China! ” in
the name of peace are blind to Soviet
interference in Outer Mongolia. Their
slogan, of course, does not apply to
Communism. Japan to-day is at the
spearhead of their attack, just as Great
Britain, the U.S.A., Italy and other
“Capitalist” countries have, in the past,
suffered the attentions of the Communist
International.
During the past six years Australia has
exported goods, mainly primary pro-
ducts, to Japan and Manchukuo to the
value of nearly 80 million pounds.
During the 1935-36 season Japan toox
from Australia goods to the value of.
£ 17,661,232. In return Australia’s
imports from that country amounted to
£6,211,963—a balance in our favor of
over £11,000,000. And we are to jettison
this tremendous advantage at the behest
of Communists and their dupes?
The result of a successful boycott of
Japanese goods must spell economic
disaster for the primary producer, and,
to the extent of that purchasing power,
to our secondary industries also.
Politically, we would affront a nation
that has materially demonstrated her
friendliness to Australia, and protected
our shores when an enemy threatened
invasion in the Great War of 1914-18.
Any unpleasant consequences from a
political affront would, of course, not be
shouldered by Moscow’s Commissars.
We should have to scramble out of the
Communist muck in the best way pos-
sible. It is not a pleasant situation for
contemplation.
The man on the land would do well to
raise a voice in protest against the
ruinous proposals of the Communist
International.
The Secretary of the Association of
Far Eastern Affairs, Box No. 4175X,
G.P.O., Sydney, will be pleased to receive
correspondence and answer inquiries
regarding organisation of a protest
against the boycott sponsored by the
Communist Party of Australia.*
aNvgsraa * aaivaaav * asnoas * aNHn<
JB SStJOUBJg t[JIA\ EUOJ3JA UI pajEJOdIODOJ
*o3 no ueiuejX'OiBuv j usaiuiaAOQ tp|B3Muo
*axi S3IH3NH3H 310 HXXVHMNOWHOC
IAHI3
snu
aadns
4Sk
MSOD VHXX3 ON XV N
H3X S33IM VHXX3 )° snuoq e q
S)U3S3jd pun J3MOd EJ}X3 3UISU3 JTl<
‘joajsd spEjg asdns qjiM pspusjq usq/vi
‘JJ3SJI hi ptq spouqqjUß jejujeu y jq
suiejuoo osp jEq; jojjsd spEjS jsdns Aju
lAqia snjj jsdng H*o*o 3 S V 133*
ejjx3 jo snuoq e uiEjqo joj)3d Anq no,
S3IIIAIVUI
j
5
j
It’s an old saying in the wool trade
that the staple follows metals in price.
Now that metals are down wool is also
substantially weaker. But wool didh t
soar as metals did early this year, so
its fall, if the old gag holds true, should
be correspondingly lighter.
* * * *
Sharemarkets generally were quiet last
week; though buyers were scarce, sellers
at cut prices were also hard to find. Bar-
rier stocks were comparatively lightly
dealt in, although Broken Hill Prop.,
paids and rights, represented one of the
most active counters. British Tobacco,
Gordon and Gotch, Colonial Sugar and
Henry Jones were among the front-rank
ord. issues that held their price best.
Breweries generally were firm.
* * * *
The Goodyear tyre people have now
been manufacturing at Granville, Sydney,
for 10 years. It has been an interesting
decade for most Commonwealth indus-
tries, and in the period Goodyear’s plant
has more than trebled in size. The public
as an investor is interested in the 300,000
8 p.c. cum. prefs., in demand at 335. 3d.
lately; from an employment viewpoint
hundreds of jobs that didn’t exist before
1927 have been created.
* * * *
The doubts mentioned on this page
several times early this year as to the
substance behind the unusually high in-
dustrial activity in Britain are now being
shown to have had good grounds.
dustrial re-equipment” was a phrase used
often in connection with the stimulus
behind re-employment; from London
now comes the statement that “the build-
ing and industrial re-equipment booms
have passed,” as it was feared here that
they must. Now it remains to be seen
whether increased efficiency on the part
of newly-equipped British factories will
take up the slackening employment
through an increased export trade. The
trouble is that costs have risen fairly
steeply over the past year, though not so
much, perhaps, as in some other
countries.
Jjc % # $
Shares in McWhirters, Brisbane (B.
27/10/’37), have firmed to 14s. 9d., up
about 6d., being one of the few Com-
monwealth retail stocks to make head-
way in the present slumpy sharemarket.
* * * *
First Australian Unit Trust, Sydney,
has declared a half-yearly distribution of
9d. per sub-unit, making Is. 3id. for the
year, equal to 6 p.c. on the present price
of sub-units (21s. 6d.).
* * * *
Kandos Cement 165.-paids are below
245. in Sydney, returning 6.6 p.c. on the
current 10 p.c. basis, as against slightly
over 6.3 p.c. from Australian Cement.
As usual, Kandos scrip is by far the
better purchase.
* # * *
Comet Deeps, the show in which the
Marshalls are interested, and which is
reputed to “have something” alongside
the De Bernales Halley’s Comet show at
Marble Bar (W.A.), continues to attract
minor interest on ’Change. Early last
week, on news that the Comet lode had
“again” been cut, “showing free gold in
dish prospects,” 400 45.-paids changed
hands to register a rise of 3d. (at Is. 6d.).
Some original shareholders in the co. (it
used to be North Gympie G.D.) will
get a shock if a div. ever comes along.
* * * *
The ord. shares in Howard Smith, up
to 245. 9d. this year, have attractions at
last week’s price of 21s. 3d. Interim
div. in September was 4 p.c. p.a.; a
final comes along in March. In 1936
4.1 p.c. was disclosed on - ord. capital;
the current term should be better. Main
interests are in shipping, sugar, coal and
B.H. Prop.
* * * *
Myer (Melb.) ords. have dropped to
345., returning 5.3 p.c.; David Jones
(Sydney) ords., at 425. last week, have
steadied slightly, and now yield slightly
under 4.8 p.c. Finney, Isles (Brisbane)
shares keep fairly firm at about 30s. 6d.,
showing 5.2 p.c. G. J. Coles ords., at
around 87s. last week, are at their lowest
level for a long time. They return over
4 p.c. on the basis of last div.
* * * *
Emperor scrip, after staying in the dol-
drums at about 12s. 9d. for some time,
dropped to 12s. last week. Ore-develop-
ment (B. 17/11/’37) has been dis-
appointing. The market made some
recovery on Friday, then slipped again.
* * * *
Drug Houses scrip is back to 255. 9d..
returning 5.1 p.c. on a 6! p.c. div. basis,
or 5.5 p.c. if the distribution lifts to
7 p.c. Australian Drug ords. at 13s. 6d.
return 6 p.c. on a 4 p.c. basis, and look
the better buy for holding ; their inactive
market makes them less attractive ior
speculators.
* * * *
United Provisions ords. (B. 17/11/ ’37)
came back to 7s. again last week, after a
“low” of ss. 6d. in Melbourne.
* * * *
“Herald” ords. at 61s. in Melbourne
last week represent the lowest quote
for some time. Whether the new cable
service of the “Argus” has had anything
to do with the slip it’s hard to say, but
there has been a certain amount of slang-
ing going on between the two papers.
“Argus” preferred ords. are down to
12s. 6d., the cum. prefs. changing hands
at 19s.
* * * *
Lake View and Star’s distribution in
respect of the year ended on June 30
amounts to 50 p.c.—2s. a share. In the
preceding term 52! P- c> was P a id, then
50, 57| and 50 p.c. back to 1932-33. In
the preceding decade shareholders got
nothing. An interim at the unchanged
rate of 6d. a share goes out in respect
of 1937-38, payable, with the final for
’36-’37, on Dec. 16, less English income
tax. The scrip, which apprdached 40s.
during the gold boom, sold at 225. Id.
last week in Adelaide. Most interest is
in London. The mine is the Common-
wealth’s biggest profit-earner, and is
second to Wiluna as a producer.
North Kalgurli scrip lifted to 21s.
in Adelaide. London sales have been
at 16s. 6d. sterling. Divs. were mentioned
here a couple of weeks ago.
Wiluna £1 shares have flopped to 9s.
3d. in London ; Adelaide has been doing
business at around 12s. Grade and
tonnage have fallen off at depth, es-
pecially in the east lode. Results for the
first half of the current year compare
with the first half of last term as follows:
6 Mths. to 6 Mths. to
30/9/’36. 30 / 9 / ’37.
Tonnage .. .. 280,730 301,410
Yield, oz. .. .. 56,883 58,253
£A £A
Value 490,859 506,344
Costs 298,897 363,976
Wkg. surplus.. .. 191,962 142,368
Capital outgo 128,430 15,821
The pincers of higher costs per ton
(about 245. 3d., against 21s. 4d.) and
lower grade have defeated the aim of
the smelters and the increased through-
put. Market valuation of the show at
15s. a share is £936,000 (Aust.). The
scrip was once six times present quotes.
Capital outlay has dropped since the
smelters were completed; something is
now going out in. diamond-drilling in
order to define the ore-body.


FOR MOONEE VALLEY.
Somerset, first start’ (Benefit or
Highweight).
Fund Handicap: Art; next, Red
Manfred.
Highweight (if no Somerset):
Don Miguel.
FOR CANTERBURY PARK.
Flying Handicap: Hammerhead
or Brown Betty ; next, Misnomer.
Canterbury Handicap: Country
Party; next, Barramul or Brown
Betty.
Highweight Handicap: Stalin;
next, Duke Caledon.
Campsie Handicap: Imbiber ;
next, Maurice.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Donaster was first past the post in the
Eclipse Stakes at Caulfield; but, on a
protest for interference in the straight,
the stewards awarded the race to
Balkan Prince. They expressed them-
selves satisfied that Ashley Reed, rider
of Donaster, did everything possible to
avoid the interference when he found his
mount running on to Balkan Prince.
It was a memorable event in many
ways. Though raised 81b. for his Wil-
liamstown Cup victory, John Wilkes
threatened to become a hot favorite ; but
the money began to pour in on Balkan
Prince, who shortened from 7 to 1 to
threes, going out in equal demand with
the Baralong colt. Sir Simper, the
Woodend Cup winner, had strong sup-
port at 11 to 2. Black Mac and Don-
aster each eased to 8 to 1 because of the
Balkan Prince plunge.
Young Crusader, now a stablemate of
The Trump, was utterly neglected in the
betting. Beaten for speed early by Dic-
tator, he didn’t hit the front until more
than six furlongs had been covered. He
petered out at the half-mile and finished
near the tail of the field.
At the home bend there was little to
choose between Sir Simper, International,
Dictator and Prince Quex, with Balkan
Prince moving up strongly. John Wilkes,
who showed none of his Williamstown
brilliance, was making heavy weather in
the middle bunch, which included Night-
guard and Donaster.
In his fine sequence of five spring suc-
cesses Reed had been favored with a run
on the rails throughout. But Donaster
isn’t as nippy as The Trump, and Reed
was obliged to make rather a wide de-
tour at the straight entrance. Near
home Donaster hung in on Balkan Prince
and obviously hampered the Westralian.
Reed struggled manfully to straighten his
mount. The winning margin was only
half a head.
Over half an hour elapsed before the
stewards announced their decision on the
protest. Punters welcomed the broadcast
with hearty cheers; but ringmen, who
had anticipated a different result, looked
glum. It was the first occasion in very
many years that the judge’s decision had
been upset in a big Melbourne race. The
Caulfield Cup of 1893 had been awarded
to Sainfoin, who finished second to Tim
Swiveller; but that resulted from an
appeal to the V.R.C. committee.
Black Mac’s third in the Eclipse Stakes
was a spectacular effort. Riding to
orders, Turoa Webster had him almost
last at the five-furlong pole. He finished
li lengths behind the second horse, but
earned high credit in doing so. Black
Mac can sustain a run for from 4i to
five furlongs. His Williamstown Cup
rider tried to win seven furlongs from
home.
Originally known as the Consolation
Stakes, the Eclipse Stakes is a rich event
to be staged at the end of the spring
round. The winner received £1750,
second £5OO and third £250. No race
on the card was worth under £5OO, and
the prize-money aggregated £5200. At
Warwick Farm on the same afternoon
£1250 was distributed.
Somerset, whose stablemate Judean
narrowly lost to Parodier in the Railway
Highweight on Melbourne Cup Day, an-
nexed the Ormond Handicap for appren-
tice riders. His form at Williamstown
a week before did not suggest an achieve-
ment of this character, but Somerset had
pretty solid support, and started at
sevens. He scored by a mere head from
Elanage (11 to 2), with the 2-to-l favor-
ite, Dark Sky, half a head farther off.
In galloping mood at no stage, Boon-
garry beat only one rival.
Larissa followed up his Williamstown
win by landing the Stansmore Two-year-
old, in which he deposed Good Boy from
favoritism. Good Boy, who belongs to
Percy Miller, began slowly and did
rather well to get within 1| lengths of
Larissa. The Excitement filly On Ap-
proval ran a moderate third.
George Morrow, of Sydney, had a
winning turn in the Maiden Two-year-
old with Senora, a filly by Bullhead, the
sire of Pamelus. She always headed the
quotes, ending up at 5 to 2. Happy
Dinah ran her to half a neck, and Miss
Parkwood was a creditable third. Nelson
(Heroic-Goldmast), trained by Holt for
C. B. Kellow, figured prominently in the
betting. It was the colt’s first public ap-
pearance. He came from a long way
back to run fifth.
Favoritism for the Rosstown Plate was
shared by Pamelus, Beechwood and
Thurles Lad at threes. Beechwood out-
paced Pamelus, and appeared to have
the race won when the Maoriland
filly Amiable, owned by W. R.
Kemball, swooped down for a half-
neck victory, with Pamelus less than
a length off. Prominent to the turn,
Thurles Lad suffered by being shut in
on the rails at a critical stage. Promising
form was revealed by Plymouth Hoe,
a three-year-old brother to that game
little thoroughbred Watchful.
Jumpers bred and owned in South
Australia continue to do well in Mel-
bourne. St. Fox and Pride of the Plain
scored at Flemington over hurdles and
fences respectively. The Tara Steeple
at Caulfield went to Two Kings (6 to 4),
who romped home in advance of Wild-
wood and Reciprocal.
* * * *
Jovial Son, sold cheap to Mrs. Burn-
stein and Mrs. Gilewich under the im-
pression that he was a gay deceiver, has,
since he changed stables —Ryan now
trains him—become the most consistent
horse in Sydney. It shows what a funny
game racing is and what queer cattle
horses are, for Jovial Son had previ-
ously raced for a lucky owner and been
prepared and “placed” by one of the
ablest trainers in Australia. For the two
ladies he has won four races —three in
succession.
In the November Handicap at Warwick
Farm Jovial Son was never off the bit.
His victory was received with cheers, the
burst of enthusiasm being prompted, in
part, by the astonishingly good price—
-9 to 2. McMenamin, who will ride the
animal in the Summer Cup, had him
running second or third for the first mile.
Then he took Jovial Son up to the pace-
maker, El Senorita, and his mount won
in a canter. Journal, who came home
well, was third. Billy Boy eased in the
betting and ran a poor race.
Young Neale is riding in fine form.
His exhibition on Hamurah in the Hors-
ley Handicap would have done credit to
the leading jockey. Hamurah, a daugh-
ter of Salmagundi, started at tens, and
had the race won turning for home.
Hammerhead got a lucky run on the
rails when Delmestor shifted out, but
he was not quite good enough; Del-
mestor finished under the judge’s box,
but ran third. Mangoola (fourth) dis-
appointed, and there was no excuse for
his defeat. Billy Cook rode him
patiently, but the grey put no heart into
his gallpping in the straight. Aureus
again showed pace, and should be
cherry-ripe for Randwick.
F. W. Hughes, well known in the wool
trade, got back some of the £7OO he gave
for Kooba when that colt romped home
in the Juvenile at evens. Kooba is a
sturdy son of Veilmond, and looks like
developing into a stayer. He responded
like an old-stager when Darby Munro
drove him along to reach the speedy
Some Vixen, who had led early by about
six lengths, and Kooba was not troubled
in the run home. Napoleon was third.
Beau Verre, one of Jamieson’s string,
was a street-corner tip. She lost what-
ever chance she had at the barrier.
Bachelor King had disappointed so
many times that he was allowed to go
out at 20 to 1 for the Maiden Mile. A
good-looking chestnut, he carries the
colors of E. P. Cruttenden, once a mem-
ber of the “F. J. Smithden” partnership.
Bachelor King settled Glenora Park
and Knight Folly with ease when it came
to serious racing.
Fort Cello (8 to I), owned by a Nyn-
gan pastoralist, G. Richardson, seemed
lucky to beat Bangate in the first divi-
sion of the Novice. He got through on
the rails in the last furlong. Panyong,
raced by Dr. G. Ewan and trained by
him at Rosehill, was third. The second
division went to King Pyrrhus, who im-
proved greatly on his previous showing.
He was backed to fives, and defeated the
favorite, Sweet Brigade, and Tickle.
Little Cooranga was all the rage for
the Leumeah Handicap. Squeezed at the
start and forced to race outside her
field, she did well to run third to Sedu-
num (7 to 1) and Beaupre, but could
scarcely have beaten Sedunum in any
circumstances. Sedunum, a Sion gelding,
is evidently pretty good ; Billy Cook was
pulling him up at the finish.
* * * *
Third in the Doncaster and the
Epsom, second in the Dundonald
Handicap at Moonee Valley and in
the Yan Yean Stakes at Fleming-
ton was Evening Mist’s record' for
seven months. The Beau Fils mare
was taken up to Bendigo for the local
Cup, and although the distance, a mile
and three furlongs, was by many con-
sidered to be a bit beyond her, insiders
knew better. They made her favorite
at 3 to 1, and she won in capital style
from Lady Kooringal (25 to 1) and Plec-
trum (16 to 1), being suited by the rather
slow pace—the journey was traversed in
2min. 20sec. As was here suggested early
in the piece, mares, particularly Sarcherie,
have done very well this year.
Last season the Bendigo Cup was con-
tested on a Saturday; but the Vic. Gov-
ernment lost tote revenue through there
being no metropolitan meeting at the
week-end. Both Bendigo and Geelong
sigh for another Saturday free of Mel-
bourne opposition.
* * * *
Westralians like to be different, so they
celebrated on November 'l5 King
George’s birthday, which falls on
December 14. The W.A.T.C. raced a
month in advance of the sixth George’s
natal day and called the thing its “King’s
Birthday meeting.” And a horse from
the stables of a trainer, J. J. Kelly, under
disqualification for alleged improper
practices, Maikai, by Pantheon-Ornum,
won the Birthday Handicap. Several
other horses trained by Kelly started
during the day. One, Amalette, was
second in the Guineas (to Footmark) ;
another, Beaufiler, was second in the
Queen’s Plate (to Charming Wave). The
sentence had been suspended for that day
to admit of members of Kelly’s big string
completing their engagements.
On the following day the W.A.T.C.
committee, without Ernest Lee Steere, the
chairman, dealt with the appeals of Kelly
and Dillon, the jockey, against their dis-
qualification. Kelly was successful, but
Dillon will have to do his 12 months.
Incidentally, Hybla, the Lee Steere three-
year-old whose running in the Belmont
Stakes was the subject of the stewards’
inquiry, ran unplaced in the Guineas.
* * * *
There are some very good judges in
Queensland, and of late years they have
had some very good horses to exercise
their judgment upon. So when some of
them insist that Spear Chief, in spite of
his failure in the Queensland Cup—he
was third to Direct Lady and Princess
Rivoli —is a better horse than his
year-older brother, Brownfelt, they de-
liver an opinion which should be borne
in mind. Brownfelt ran in the A.J.C.
Spring Stakes. He wasn’t fancied, for
he hadn’t done sufficient work to war-
rant his being backed to beat Mala and
Allunga, and he was making just a short
stay in Sydney, being bound for Mel-
bourne and the Caulfield Cup. All the
same, he struck Randwick observers as
being a horse above the average, and he
ran like one, finishing a creditable fourth.
The change to Melbourne did him no
good, and he had to be withdrawn from
all engagements, though there was no-
thing organically wrong. Properly accli-
matised he may prove himself a Sydney
Cup horse. And if his young brother is
better there’s a bright future ahead of
that colt on southern courses. Handicap
form is not particularly good.
Valbeau keeps on winning. The chest-
nut son of the Newmarket Handicap
winner Valiard, carrying top weight
(Bst. 111 b.), beat a pretty good field in
the Maitland Cup —Bobby, receiving
131 b., was second, and Bourbon, 141 b.,
third—and ran the mile in lmin.
38 4-ssec., a record for the course. Val-
beau was favorite at 5 to 2. It was his
sixth success in a couple of months. He
has been nominated for the Villiers.
Ins and Outs
These Maorilanders play bright cricket,
and they gave N.S.W. a few shocks.
Though O’Reilly got five for 57 (out of
195) he didn’t overawe their batsmen ;
Wallace (32) played him freely, and
Carson (40 n. 0.) was useful. Then Cowie
and Parsloe sent four N.S.W. men -
(Fingleton, McCabe and Chipperfield
among them) back with only 20 on the
board. Barnes (97) and Jackson (68) put
an end to that, but Cowie took 4 for 76
in the total of 274. At it again, Wallace
—he’s not yet 21 —made 58 in 82
minutes, and Moloney (42) helped. With
eight down it was 180 at stumps on
Saturday.
It went to 214 that time, Hadlee
weighing in with 46, and with a lead
of 135 the visitors tried to out the
Welshmen. Late on Monday Cowie had
got rid of McCabe and Cheetham —two
for 24.
* * * *
“Lansdowne”: No, Hammond is by
no*means the first English cricket pro. to
become an amateur (B. 17/11/’37),
although none of his predecessors pre-
faced the step with a solemn announce-
ment from a Fleet-street pub. After the
Great War, all pros, who had seen ser-
vice—and there were few who hadn’t—
were given the opportunity of re-enter-
ing their county teams as amateurs if
they desired. Some took advantage of
it; Jupp, of Northampton, was one. But
the conversion has more often been the
other way. As far as I remember, the
first two prominent amateurs to become
professionals were Gilbert, of Gloucester-
shire—“W.G.’s” cousin—and Diver, of
Surrey. That was in the mid’-eighties.
Since then many others who couldn’t
afford to play cricket for bare exes, have
followed suit.
* * * *
“Aigburth”: Started by the N.S.W.C.A.
there is a move afoot in Sydney to in-
stitute daylight saving and thus give more
time for sport. The idea has its points in
the North Hemisphere with its compara-
tively short summer, but seems quite un-
necessary here. Even in England, long
before the saving craze came in there
was light in fine weather for most ball
games until well on in the evening. At
writer’s school house matches were played
up till 9 p.m. for a couple of hours each
night in the week, save Saturday, start-
ing after an early “prep.”
“Quark”: N.S.W. magpies have evi-
dently arrived at the conclusion that
golfers are harmless and that cricketers
are more deserving of their attention.
In a match at Lithgow (N.S.W.) a
lady maggie with a nest near the play-
ing-field made the lives of the fieldsmen
a misery by swooping down on them and
giving them one to go on with with her
spiked bill. Fieldsmen without hats were
especially open to attack, but the fowl’s
fury seemed particularly directed toward
the bowlers, some of whom went right
off their game.
* * * *
“Old Q.”: The Digger is bobbing up
in a new place. There is strong support
for an annual cricket clash between
Queensland and N.S.Wi returned soldiers
on the lines of that now in existence be-
tween Victoria and South Australia. Bert
Oldfield and other prominent soldier-
cricketers are backing the idea, and it
is suggested that a N.S.W. side should
leave Sydney a couple of days before
Christmas, playing two matches in Bris-
bane and others at Warwick, Too-
woomba and Ipswich. Returned men
still prominent in the game will, of
course, be ruled out.
(<Continued on next page.)
The world’s motor speed record is
311.42 m.p.h. now. G. E. T. Eyston did
it in his Thunderbolt at Salt Lake Flat,
Utah. One way he averaged 317.74 m.p.h.
By way of getting ready for a fight in
Sydney with Izzy Janazzo, described in
one paper as “the famous Irish-Ameri-
can,” Jack Carroll took Dick Humphreys
on at Melbourne on Saturday night. He
got a points decision, but it was only his
ringcraft saved him from a long count
in the eighth.
* * * *
Opperman rode his bike from Fre-
mantle to Sydney, 2750 miles, in 13 days
10 hours and a bit. Dog-tired over the
last section, he was pronounced fit by
doctors after he had had a good sleep
and a meal or two.


€
1
To be physically fit in the true sense means
something more than a negative condition of
health or freedom from sickness. It means
building up and maintaining a store of vitality
and endurance, a reserve of strength to draw on
as required. Something that will help everyone
to make a supreme effort to win through, no
matter how handicapped at the start in life’s
race. The foundation of fitness is a well
nourished body and there is no better way of
attaining this than by taking Roboleine, the best
protective and energy creating food. A teaspoon-
ful three times a day supplies the body with
that extra nourishment which builds up strong
bone and healthy tissue, and increases resistance
to infection.
In 60z., 12oz. and 360 z. glass jars.
ROBDLEINE
(Made in England)
The best protective and
health restoring food
CO\>po?
Street
Ken*
mP I4
479
Ltd
tfen
\o*e
et*c
Worn*
AdV cs
t ;
Tasmania, the Holiday Isle
for holidays
you will enjoy I
Lovers of Nature find renewed
zest for life in the bracing,
sunny climate of Tasmania.
There you can enjoy the thrill
of mountaineering, the quiet
charm of sylvan glades, orchard
country, whispering forests or
historic buildings that will
repay your visit!
There’s sport, too! Trout fish-
ing in the lakes and streams or
coastal fishing—where the big
ones are! • Golf, tennis and
other recreations also.
Colour-line Tours
COLOUR-LINE TOURS pro-
vide a choice of itineraries, and
the inclusive cost covers First-
class Steamer travel, also
trips and accommodation in
Tasmania.
: :
Hi
HH:
H
H
■
1
* VI
A glimpse of the world’s perfect
panorama from the summit of Mount
Wellington — 4l66ft.
©
Regular oversea liner sailings direct to
Hobart or Burnie during the Summer
months.
©
Illustrated literature, details of liner sailings and fares on application
TASMANIAN GOVERNMENT TOURIST BUREAU
MELBOURNE -
SYDNEY
NEWCASTLE -
- - The Block, Collins Street
4 Martin Place, opp. S.P.O.
. .... 24 Hunter Street
ADELAIDE 12 Pirie Street
PERTH - - - A.M.P. Bldg., William Street
BRISBANE ------ 196 Adelaide Street
V 66.
*
iv
m
m
X
\
*
/
ORIENT LINE
ROYAL MAIL STEAMERS
i
V /
Tasmanian Summer Service
A Tasmanian port, either Hobart or Burnie 1 , is being included in
the routes taken by the big Orient Liners sailing in Australian
waters both outward and homeward during Tasmania's
forthcoming Tourist Season. There are frequent sailings from
all Australian mainland states and back. Also, passages may
be booked from Sydney and Brisbane to Melbourne via Hobart.
XMAS, NEW YEAR AND SUMMER CRUISES TO NEW ZEALAND
. A ■
From
FREMANTLE
ADELAIDE
MELBOURNE .....
SYDNEY
BRISBANE
No. 30, by ORFORD*
Dec. 7 - Jan. 10
Dec. 11 - Jan. 6
Dec. 13 - Jan. 3
Dec. 16 - Dec. 29
Dec. 19 - Dec. 29f
No. 31, by OTRANTOf
Dec. 20 - Jan. 24
Dec. 24 - Jan. 20
Dec. 27 - Jan. 17
Dec. 31 - Jan. 13
Jan. 4 - Jan. I3j
No. 32, by ORONSAYf
Jan. 18 - Feb. 21
Jan. 22 - Feb. 17
Jan. 24 - Feb. 14
Jan. 28 - Feb. 10
Feb. I - Feb. 10$
* First Saloon and Tourist Class; t First Saloon and Tourist B Class; t Commencitig
from Brisbane, ending at Sydney; fares include steamer or rail passage back to Brisbane
Literature giving full details of New Zealand and Tasmanian Sailings and Fares will be supplied on Application.
ORIENT STEAM NAVIGATION COMPANY LTD.
Incorporated
in England
Ins and Outs
Though the Victorians, last year s Shef-
field winners, beat the Maorilanders by
five wickets at Melbourne, they were in a
tight corner at one period of the game.
The tourists led off with 210, Hadlee
smiting woundily for 51. Vivian (30),
Kerr (41) and Wallace (22) also treated
the bowling cavalierly, Fleetwood-Smith
being well spanked to the tune of 2 for
92. The tourists were without the star
bowler, Cowie, but Parsloe, imported
from M.L. for the Australian part of the
tour, showed fine pace and command,
taking 5 for 47 in Victoria’s first smack
of 141. Ledward (49), Hassett (36) and
Rigg (27) did best with the bat. In
again, the All-Blacks made 223, Vivian
(66) and Wallace (63) again doing well.
Bromley and Gregory took four wickets
each, but Fleetwood-Smith was mastered
again—o-52. Though Lee (72) and Rigg
(24) opened well five wickets had gone
for 194 before a stand by Hassett and
Barnett altered the complexion of things.
Hassett gave a chanceless display for
127, while Barnett was 47 n.o. when the
293 needed to win went up on the board.
Parsloe was injured. The all-rounder
Vivian collected 3-89, making his tally
for the match 7 for 122.
*• * * *
The Westralians began their tour of
the Eastern States in Melbourne, where
they were defeated by the Victorians.
O’Brien, opening for Victoria, struck a
patch of form and got to 102, and
Bromley—who came to Victoria from
the West —followed with 114. Though
the others did little the total reached
316. Gardiner, rolling down medium-
paced stuff, took 5 for 21. ’Keeper Love-
lock was as outstanding among the
Westralian batsmen: 94 n.o. out of 194
(Ebeling 2 for 7 ; Bromley 3 for 44).
Victoria declared in its second shot
with one down for 142 (O’Brien 65 n. 0.).
The Westralians were all dismissed for
139 (Rowlands 49 ; Arthur 47 ; Love-
lock 10 n. 0.; Rayson 5 for 56). Vic-
toria by 125 runs.
* * * #
The N.S.W. second eleven to meet the
Westralians in Sydney includes three
first-eleven batsmen, Barnes, Cheetham
and Beattie. McGilvray is skipper, and
other players who have figured in Shef-
field cricket are Chilvers, Easton and
Fallowfield. Eight of the No. 1 Eleven
will be in Adelaide for the Grimmett-
Richardson testimonial match.
* * * *
Dead in Melbourne at 74, Jack
Worrall, one of Australia’s early cricket
heroes. The nuggetty Victorian had an
unusual record in that, having proved a
failure in the sixth Australian team of
1888 —his batting average was only 11,
though he took 24 wickets —he returned
to the side in 1899, and was one of the
batting successes of the tour, making 1202
runs and filling fourth place in the aver-
ages after Darling, Hill and Noble. A
punishing hitter with a good defence,
Worrall was particularly successful on
sticky wickets. He was a notable ex-
ponent of Australian football and played
several times for Victoria in inter-State
matches. Modem followers of cricket
knew him as the “Argus” and “Austra-
lasian” press expert on Australian foot-
ball and cricket, on both of which games
he was one of Australia’s leading
authorities.
* * * *
“Hotham”: Ponsford has himself
squashed the ill-advised attempt to chase
him back into big cricket. Refusing
selection for the Grimmett-Richardson
game in Adelaide, Ponsford said that
when he retired from the game he meant
it and that he declined to be yanked
back again to the possible exclusion from
representative cricket of young players
with chances of selection for the English
tour.
* * * *
“Glenelg”: Len Darling, who has de-
cided to get right out of cricket, may be
written down as a player who never ful-
filled his promise. Acclaimed as a suc-
cessor to the great Australian left-handers
of the past, he never quite filled the bill.
He was himself as much disappointed
with his comparative failure as was the
general public. Darling was a member
of the 1934 Australian team in England,
but was only ninth on the averages with
33.38, a highest score of 117 and an
aggregate of 1135, while he took 15
wickets. In all Tests with England
Darling averaged 20.41 for seven
matches, and in Sheffields his figures were
47.71 for 61 innings with the bat and
10 wickets at 68.20 with the ball. In
six Test innings against South Africa
Darling averaged 45.80.
* * * *
“Tenth Slip”: Just when one thought
the silly business had been abandoned,
the N.S.W. cricket heads have resolved


Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House-
holders’ Comprehensive, Workers’
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
ĺ
The first Quadruple-acting- Tyre Pump to be made-—the Renrut
“Quad”—-surpasses all attempts at imitation. Its robust design,
the- meticulous accuracy in manufacture, the fine quality of
materials used—these mean years more of reliable and satisfac-
tory service. The “supercharger” action pumps more air into
the tyre, at each stroke —halves inflation time and makes the
job far easier.
Pitted with accurate Pressure gauge. Price .
Less Gauge. Price -. . 60/-
65/-
REN R U T
, OUAD M
HAND PUMP
Factory Representative:
JOHN ARNOLD, P.O. Box 71, Melbourne, Australia.
Manufacturers:
WTTTTAM TURNER & RRO.. LTD.. Eyre Works, Sheffield, 1, England.
A Self-contained Sanitary system.
NO WATER SUPPLY REQUIRED.
Approved by Board of Health.
HYGIENIC. INNOCUOUS.
W •••■• • ■;
No odours, flies,
germs or noise.
Provides one
amenity of City
life. Hundreds
in use. Shell Oil
Co., 53 repeat
orders; Bank
N.S.W., 15. In-
stalled by Com-
monwealth Govt.,
Hotels, Hospitals,
Schools, Private
Homes, Theatres,
etc. Can be installed where Septic Tanks are
impracticable. Simply installed. Cheap to run.
Automatic. Price £l5/10/- f.o.b. Sydney. £l6
other States. Write for free pamphlet.
,HYGEIA SANITARY CO.,
28 Bridge Street, Sydney.
If *feiny illustration in “The Bulle-
tin” takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
to ban the use of the web-fingered wicket-
keeping glove in first-class matches in
N.S.W., and have asked the other States
to follow suit. As Walker and Barnett
both use this type of glove, there is
likely to be some friction. It is stated
that Oldfield, Love and Easton, N.S.W.
’keepers, advised against this type of
glove when consulted by the C.A. Their
opinion calls for respect, but it is hard
to see why the innovation should be
more harmful than spring handles or
rubber covers in bats, or the prepos-
terous pads now in vogue.
* * * *
“Bramall Lane”: The English Board
of Control is to consider the Australian
suggestion for five-day Tests, but it is
unlikely any change will be made.
Stanley Jackson made a good point
when he said that the question of drawn
Tests rested entirely with the players
themselves, who could easily make four
or three days long enough for a decision
one way or another if they only livened
up their game.
Nineteenth Hole
“Hamilton”: Since Von Nida started
the fashion, golf challenge matches for
stakes have become a regular thing. In
Queensland, Walker and Macarthur, a
brother pro., have £3O to say they can
lick any other two professional pill-
smackers. Match play over 72 holes is
suggested on any course satisfactory to
all parties.
H= * * *
“Sandy Gallop”: Play for the Dunlop
Cup, one of the leading professional
golfing tourneys in Queensland, saw
Anderson win from Walker by 2 and 1.
Both are young players. Walker was
runner-up in the Australian open cham-
pionship, but has been beaten twice since
by Anderson, who is professional at
Wynnum.
* * * *
“Brassey”: The trip to Britain by a
quartet of Australian golfers will find
the players diving deep into their own
pockets. Return boat fares will be paid
by the Australian golf authorities and
travelling and living in Britain will be
seen to by the local folk. Caddies will
have to be paid out of the players’ own
pockets. They will also have to find
their own balls and other oddments. No
wives will be allowed, and press articles
and interviews are banned.
* * * *
“Divot Digger”: We may and we
mayn’t see Henry Cotton in Australia
early next year. It was suggested that
he might come on from America, where
he has been chasing the money in the
winter golf contests south of the Mason-
Dixie line. The Professional Golfers’ Asso-
ciation, which is to run a tourney during
the anniversary spree, but not as part of
it, has written inviting him. He would
have comfortable time to make the trip
and get back to Britain for the opening
of the season there by ’plane. Terms
would be the stumbling block. Cotton
has a great opinion of his value.
* * * *
“Sandringham”: The rivalry between
the Victorian Football League and the
Association now has its counterpart in
the division between the Victorian Golf
Association and a younger body, the
Victoria Golf League. The V.G.A. has
dealt a felon swipe at the League by
ordaining that only amateurs who are
members of clubs registered with the
V.G.A. or of clubs outside Victoria may
enter for amateur events held under its
banner.
* * * *
“Brassey”: The N.S.W. professional
foursomes championship will be decided
at Bonnie Doon course on November
29. Richardson and Von Nida are the
holders, and will defend their title. Most
of the leading professionals are pairing
off with their assistants where such exist
a capital idea from the point of view
of the young players.
* * * *
Divot Digger”: No less an authority
than Fred Popplewell has let slip an im-
portant but usually glossed-over trait of
golfers. Commenting on the proposed
adoption of the American ball, Fred said
the chief result of the change would be
to make the average player imagine the
game is easier “when he sees the larger
ball sitting up on the fairway.” “Imagina-
tion plays a leading part in the make-up
of the average golfer,” added this wise
man. As they used to say in the A.1.F.,
“too flamin’ right.”
“•= * * *
“Hoylake”: After considering the
matter from all angles for some years
St. Andra’s is almost making up its mind
to adopt the larger American golf ball.
It is an anomaly that the two greatest
golfing countries in the world should use
balls of varying size, and uniformity will
be welcomed, especially by American
and British players who exchange visits.
The Yankee pill, besides being larger
than the British—its diameter is 1.68
inches as against 1.62 —offers more re-
sistance to the wind that the British type,
and this takes distance off the long-
driving, which has proved a nightmare
to golf-course architects. On the other
“Y e s, sir ’ee’s done ’ees dash. Better send ’im to the stud."
hand, in windy weather it is more diffi-
cult to control in approaching and pitch-
ing to the green, a fact which will not
endear it to the mug.
Racquet and Bawl
“Top Spin”: The N.S.W. tennis cham-
pionships ended with a win in the mixed
doubles for Huxley and Joan Hartigan.
The inter-State match saw the N.S.W.
men win comfortably and the Victorian
women “lose” the opposition, N.S.W.
taking only the doubles—Misses Coyne
and Hartigan defeated Mrs. Hopman and
Miss Wynne.
❖ * * *
“Top Spin”: The faithful are reminded
that the American tennis-players arrive
in Sydney on November 29 and make
direct for Melbourne, where the Vic-
torian championships will be their first
job. The Germans heave in sight at
Brisbane on December 14 and play
there before coming south. Neither
team will have a chance of meeting the
other, though members will probably
clash in the' Australian championships,
which begin at Adelaide on January 22.
* * * *
“Top Spin”: Interviewed at ’Frisco
before leaving for Australia Budge said
he was not turning professional “for at
least another year.” He has got over
the injuries received in his motor acci-
dent, and expects to get right back to
form in Australia. He and his offsider,
Mako, open their tour on December 1
at Melbourne.
* * * *
“Milton”: Moon and Williams are to
represent Queensland at the Australian
tennis champions at Adelaide in January,
the Australian tennis heads paying ex-
penses. Two women will also go, doubt-
less Mrs. Westacott and Miss Hardcastle.
A junior may be sent down for the
Wilson Cup tourney, but this depends
on the generosity of the Australian body.
Miss Hardcastle beat Mrs. Westacott,
and Misses Coyne and Wynne in Bris-
bane.
Miscellaneous
“Vernier”: South Africa will send a
rifle team to Sydney’s anniversary shivoo,
this having been made possible by the
generosity of an unnamed capitalist. It
sounds like Abe Bailey, who still keeps
his eye on South African sport, though
a sick man in England. Abe financed
the 1921 Springbok tour to Australia and
M.L., even to providing them with
blazers.
*• * * *
“Spike”: An Englishman picked for
the Empire Games in Sydney is J. L.
Newman, the high jumper, who is him-
self 6ft. 6in. high. With this advantage
the youth (he is 20) should be able to
step over the bar instead of leaping it.
The difficulty might be met by making
him jump out of a hole, but it is doubt-
ful if the conventions will permit this to
be done.
* * * *
“Hawthorn”: Things will begin to
move in Australian rowing after the
Henley-on-Yarra regatta in Melbourne.
Immediately after that event Australian
selector Keary will pick eights, fours and
scullers for the rowing section of the
Empire Games to be held on the Nepean
(N.S.W.) in February. Keary is in Mel-
bourne watching the local oarsmen in-
cluded in his provisional selection a
couple of months ago.
* * * *
“Blade”: Japan is going on with
preparations for the 1940 Olympiad.
There being no suitable water for the
rowing events near Tokio, the digging
of a special canal, 2500 metres long and
80 wide, has been commenced. A broad
road will run on each side of the canal,
which will be lined with stands in
addition.
* * * *
“Gate”: The English 'Rugby League is
to be asked by its Australian opposite
number to put another ban on the hiring
of professional footballers from Aus-
tralia. The old ban was lifted on the in-
sistence of North of England clubs who
could not find
enough recruits in
their own country,
and the present
system of paying
£2OO transfer fee
for each man hired
was substituted.
English officials are
not likely to agree.
Someone has sug-
gested that Austra-
lian teams in Eng-
land be permitted
to co-opt Austra-
lians playing with
the League clubs
there. That would
save passage money
to and from Eng-
land, for only a
couple of managers
need be selected on
this side.
* *
“Nark”: The
Queensland section
of the Rugby
League Board of
Control has
crabbed the Syd-
ney end’s resolve
to have a French
team out here by
demanding a
further report on
French form from
the Kangaroo man-
agers now in Eng-
land. At the same
time the board has
forbidden all fancy
excursions to
America and other places and demanded
that the team be on board the returning
steamer by February 9 so as to reach
Sydney by March 23.
* * * *
“Nerve”: The N.S.W. Rugby League
does not lack nerve. It has asked the
trustees of Sydney Cricket Ground,
which it has leased years ahead for foot-
ball, though the ground is dedicated to
amateur sport, for a cut of the members’
subscription fees. The N.S.W.C.A. enjoys
this privilege and the professional body
considers that it also deserves something
of the sort in view of its payment of
rent in the winter months. The C.A.
gets a whack of members’ subs, because
the ground was principally dedicated
for cricket, and its rights in this respect
have been upheld in the courts.


Mick Simmons’
Service to
Sportsmen
Let Lionel Bibby, famous Crack-shot and
Australia’s best-known authority on Fire-
arms and Ballistics, who is attached to
Mick Simons’ Shooting Department, guide
you in making your selection. Fully avail
yourself of his advice on any matter per-
taining to the sport of shooting.
ļ
Medium-priced
Popular
Sporting Rifles
ľ
Stevens’ No. 8.
No IA—THE MAINE DE
LUXE RIFEE, 22-eal., bolt
action similar to. No. 1,24 m.
barrel, pistol grip, adjustable
tangent rear sight; weight,
about 411 b. i
Price 40/-
Postage, 2/-; Other States, 3/6.
No. B—STEVENS’ SPRING-
FIEED S.S. RIFLE. MODEL
52, 22-cal., bolt action, 22m.
round barrel, gold bead front
and ladder rear sight; weight,
about 4Jll>. .
Price 3U/-
Postage, 2/-; Other States, 3/6.
No. 27— REMINGTON BOLT
ACTION REPEATING RIFLE,
MODEL 341 A, 22-cal. Magazine
holds 22 short, 17 long. .15
long-rifle cartridges; 24in.
round barrel, bead front ancl
ladder rear sight: weight,
about 511 b. PC/C/
Price 1,3/3/-
Carriage Paid.
SHOOTING
CATALOGUE!
No keen sportsman can be
without this comprehensive
publication. Post Free.
Mick Simmons Ltd.
HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
And All Branches.
Patents.
PROCESS OF TREATING SUGAR
SOLUTIONS.
THK proprietors of Commonwealth Patent No.
13353/28 are prepared to negotiate for the sale
of their rights in the above, or for the granting
of a license to make, use and vend the inven-
Particulars obtainable from Griffith, Hassel
and Griffith, Patent Attorneys, Sydney.
If any illustration in The Bulletin
takes your fancy, write to the manager,
who will quote you price for the original.
of PLEASURE and SAFETY
R
1
■
m
m
M
CfAerelSwfeßgck
Barnet Glass
ll
Checkskid'Tyres
THE TYRES WITH THE LONGEST, NON-SKID LIFE
Barnet Glass Rubber Company Limited ( Incorporated in Victoria)
.M. 89.30.37
Sudden braking
takes a lot out of tyres
— don’t speed to excess
in traffic.
BOGEYS, PLAIN AND COLORED.
BY “FENG-SHUI.”
Melbourne “Argus” has acquired a
new independent and exclusive foreign
cable service. For curtain-raiser it pub-
lished a dispatch from Shanghai, the
writer being a certain H. R. Kmcker-
bocker.
Unless China is helped by other coun-
tries, Mr. Knickerbocker states, its con-
quest by Japan seems inevitable ; and if
it is conquered the world may soon have
to deal with an army of 5,000,000
to 10,000,000 Asiatics, led by Japanese
officers, and a Japanese Navy twice t e
size of the present navy.
In 1498 Vasco da Gama landed at
Calicut, in India, and his countrymen
retained the monopoly of trade with that
country for a century. Clive won t e
battle of Plassey in 1757. Forty-two
years later Britannia became the unchal-
lenged mistress of a country containing
upwards of 200,000,000 people.
On Mr. Knickerbockei s reckoning,
Britannia should have proceeded to over-
run the world with an army of two or
three million dusky warriors, officered by
Englishmen, not to mention a navy mul-
tiplied out of all proportion. In view of
the fact that about that time she was
engaged in a life-and-death struggle with
Napoleon, it would have only been com-
monsense on her part if she had begged
at least a modicum of assistance from
the threat to world civilisation. But this
is not what happened,
R eader s of Mr. Knickerbocker’s ter-
rifying pro phecy are entitled to ask
what arguments he has to advance to
j ustify j t j t may be that the Chinese
w j d be SQ c b armed with the Japanese as
po ij cemen that they will be ready to fall
intQ line t 0 the tU ne of one-tenth of their
popu i a ti on and follow their new rulers
Qn a wojdd tour 0 £ annexation. But
history of Ireland, Poland and
Italy suggests that the Chinese will be-
come obsessed not with the idea of put-
Japan on the map as the potential
m j er Q £ t be planet, but with turning the
j apanese owt 0 £ China, lock, stock and
barrel. The most that Japan can expect
js china wm He down and go to
sleep under the c f its latest con-
queror, as it has done under previous in-
vaderSj untd j t chooses to wake up.
„ ,
It may be that Argus readers will
conclude from the fact that Mr. Knicker-
bocker cables from Shanghai that he is
m an extraordinarily good position to
come to a sound opinion. I bved in
Shanghai during disturbances similar to
the present, and 1 never imagined for a
moment that residence in that whirling
cosmopolitan maelstrom necessarily gave
me the competence of a seer or a pro-
phet, or even enabled me to know a frac-
tion of what was going on around me.
When I solicited information from the
average Shanghailander, all I got was
the prejudices concerning China of a
Frenchman, an American, a Britisher or
a German, and what he told me was
what he had read that day in his morn-
ing paper. When I inquired of a China-
man concerning Japanese or foreigners,
all I got was the prejudices of a China-
man. No doubt, all that I gave back,
when I was questioned in my turn, was
the prejudices of a white Australian, and
it took me a long time to get over them,
if I ever did get over them.
All that can be said about the present
business is that, despite the headlines, the
Japanese are not overrunning China. It
would be as difficult for a few hundred
thousand troops to overrun the
400,000,000 inhabitants of that country
as it would be for all the motorists in
Australia to overrun all the pedestrians,
supposing they decided to do so. All
that Japan has done to date is to make a
nick in the north and a nick in the
middle, and already these nicks have
opened up a series of tremendous prob-
lems, the worst of which is the ques-
tion of Shanghai. If the Japanese at-
tempt to control International Shanghai
they will stir up one set of hornets, and
if they don’t they will have to deal with
another.
The foreign enclave was always a thorn
in the side, even of the Chinese. It is
likely to be even more of a thorn in the
Japanese side. Into the settlement seeps
all the criminality of the Republic. Gen-
erals and statesmen retire there when de-
feated to plot against the Government;
Conservative Chinese gentlemen regard
the Eurasian mart as the modern Baby-
lon where their sons and daughters learn
strange vices and become forces destruc-
tive of the established order; syndical-
ism, anarchism and Communism flourish
there like the green bay-tree, out of reach
of the executioner’s sword or the firing
squad.
The Great Powers long ago divided up
China into spheres of influence. It has
hitherto been impossible for one Power
to build a railway within another
Power’s sphere of influence unless it was
prepared to go to war over the issue.
That is the only reason why China is
not crisscrossed with railways, like
France or Germany.
How the Japanese will solve these
problems or that they will solve them
is not known to me, and probably is not
known to Mr. Knickerbocker. But that
while they are trying to do it they will
find the time to mobilise millions of
Chinese and bear down on the rest of
the world in an Armada packed with
them I do not believe for a moment.
It is fantastic nonsense.


ADAMS’ (TATTERSALL’S) HOTEL-
-259 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 484 GEORGE STREET.
Rooms, 6/- and 8/- pep day; Breakfast, Table d’Hote or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE- PUBLIC DINING ROOMS.
Lunch from 13 noon (Sunday, 13.45 p.m.), Dinner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday, 5.45 p.m.).
Tables or Seats may be reserved by ’Phone. M 4601.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.'
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq. ;
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —D. S. FORBES.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 98
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
“Breakfast for Two.**
Herbert Marshall, Barbara Stanwyck.
Snaps right into action, with valet
marching downstairs and through halls
and rooms of spacious, very English
American house to reach bathroom and
find it occupied by strange young lady
who wants a towel.
Young head of the house is then dis-
covered asleep on sofa under young
lady’s white fur coat and suffering a
bad hangover.
This interesting situation is rapidly
explained. Mr. Marshall is the negli-
gent and spendthrift last surviving mem-
ber of an old American shipping house:
throughout the piece the store America
places on family tradition gets a strong
airing.
Miss Stanwyck is an unknown he has
picked up at a night club, herself very
well off, as it turns out: the importance
of being on the American social register
is also well underlined. She’s not long
in getting the lay of the land ; less in de-
ciding that what Mr. Marshall wants is
a good jolt that will pull him up and
make him the man his grandfather was,
and little longer in securing a hold on
his shipping co.
Of course she retains him in the firm,
of course he makes good and of course
the little complications that crop up are
straightened out so that they can go into
a matrimonial clutch at the finish. These
things don’t matter. They’re merely
framework. The strength of the film is
its incidental comedy, which is con-
tinuous, always very bright and some-
times uproarious.
There’s a dog in it that would make
it an extra-good entertainer on his own.
A huge black-and-white mastiff type, he’s
a polished comedian. One of his little
pleasantries is opening a cavernous mouth
and taking the young lady by the wrist
whenever necessary to prevent her walk-
ing out during the lively first-morning
exchanges. Also his giving a tongue-
cleaning to the little wizened old boy
who brings the news that there will be no
dividends this quarter. He cleans him
masterfully from boots to eyebrows.
Biggest uproar of the piece, however,
is a wedding scene, spendthrift being bent
on going through with marriage to the
Wrong Girl out of pique, and arrange-
ments having been taken to see that he
doesn’t. This must be next door to the
funniest of the whole year’s film efforts.
Donald Meek as the officiating Judge
—they do weddings in U.S.A.—is the
main item in this splash of humor. His
homily to the couple on little birds in
their nests, little bees in their hives, in-
terrupted by squeaky window-cleaning
and other matters, is the very essence of
comedy, splendidly put over by a first-
rate character actor.
It was well worth sitting out a week’s
rather poor films to have seen this one.
“Farewell Again.**
This, at the Lyceum, was the week’s
film curiosity.
An English picture, its business is de-
picting in full detail the life aboard a
troopship.
It’s about Gib. we board her, returning
with a regiment due for long leave after
service in India. Everybody aboard’s
keyed up with expectation. Then we’re
switched over to London (the order of
these matters may be vice versa ) and
shown all those who there are similarly
keyed up—fiancees, mothers and so forth.
And now come orders that, instead of
long leave, the regiment can have only
six hours in Southampton; then it must
head for Palestine to stop troubles there.
Pretty well the entire film —about an
hour and a half of it—is taken up with
the few days’ run, plus relating the effect
of the fresh orders on a handful of the
thousand or two aboard.
Talk about documentary detail! The
ship is even pulled up on the high seas,
and you wait while the sergeant’s wife has
her fifth baby. You see the nurse called,
the doctor called, the sergeant called;
the transfer into the hospital, word being
sent to the bridge to steady the ship, the
engines gradually slowing down, the
vibration of the ship ceasing ; the ser-
geant parading outside the door, the
doctor coming out and slapping him on
the back, the sister coming out and con-
gratulating him, the nurse coming out
and giving him the baby to hold, the
Go on like that for another quarter
of an hour.
In the film’s favor it must be said
that it is authentic detail —every hole
and corner of the ship, every item of
the life of the regiment, even to its shav-
ing itself! By the time it’s all through,
you can depend on it you’ve been on a
troopship all right, and it’s to be hoped
you’ve enjoyed it.
“The Emperor*s Candlesticks.**
William Powell and Luise Rainer.
Since this film at Sydney St. James is
a version of a Baroness Orczy romance
“H’m, these are not so hot”
one should no doubt get the book, read
or re-read it, and then sit back and
shoot holes through the picture,
That’s the approved method,
Another view is that how such a pic-
ture agrees or disagrees with the book
doesn’t matter a hoot. A picture that
represented a novel entirely would be the
dullest ever filmed. They are altogether
different mediums of entertainment,
In this view it’s enough that the film
succeeds in being pleasing entertainment
in itself.
It is a cheerful romance, with Mr.
Powell as a Polish secret-service agent
entrusted by compatriots with getting to
the Czar a message designed to have a
condemned Polish patriot pardoned, and
Miss Rainer a Russian secret-service
agent entrusted with getting to Russia a
message that will have Mr. Powell
arrested and shot on sight.
Then there are the candlesticks,
antlered antiques, also going to Russia,
as a gift to a royal lady. The story arises
from Mr. Powell depositing his message
in a secret cavity in one candlestick for
safe transit, Miss Rainer depositing hers
in the other, and the theft of the baubles
on the way.
Tracking down the missing articles
through sundry European cities, even to
London, fills in most of the film, until
Russia, momentary danger for both
agents and a happy ending round out
the romance that has meanwhile
developed.
The film depends almost entirely on
the missing candlesticks to provide sus-
pense. It scarcely bothers about the two
lives in the balance while the hunt is on
—that of the Polish patriot at the one
end and, at the other, that of the Czar’s
son, kidnapped by Mr. Powell’s em-
ployers and held as hostage pending the
Czar’s reaction to the letter which they
have induced their prisoner to pen.
Neither prisoner is represented as in the
slightest danger at any stage of the busi-
ness, and of course a strong means of
keeping suspense keyed up is thereby
lost.
No doubt the Baroness, in the more
leisurely medium of the novel, worked
that possibility to the limit. The picture-
makers, however, seem to have fixed on
keeping on the plane of light romantic
entertainment, and as such the film can
be rated tiptop.
It gives Mr. Powell a capital role, and
he acts it very happily. A nicely accom-
plished performance, despite the slight
air of boredom with the part his manner
always suggests. Miss Rainer has an
equally good part, and acts it even
better. Those two sound stock actors
Frank Morgan and Henry Stephenson
make characteristic appearances in
smallish parts. .
Then there is Maureen O’Sullivan,
who does so well with an unsatisfactory
part (because it has scarcely any begin-
ning and no end) that one law-abiding
citizen felt a gentle desire to strangle
the director responsible for her awful
performance in “Kathleen Mavourneen.”
St. James Shorts.
Filling out the first half, as usual at
this address, these M.-G.-M. brevities
alone make the current bill a palatable
spread of light entertainment.
“Our Gang” are in great form on
Valentine Day; Mark Twain wouldn’t
have minded fathering this lot. For
youngsters they are extraordinarily com-
petent comedians. They score because
it’s authentic youngster behavior they
portray; engaging enough to make a
confirmed bachelor go into the married
bliss business and hope for the worst.
The one with the large teeth and freckles
has never done better.
The colored cartoon is another of the
small darkie who, taking cookies to
Grandma, lets his imagination get the
best of him. Here it lobs him among
cannibals, with rib-cracking results.
The Pete Smith brevity depends much
more than usual on what’s depicted than
on Pete. It’s a bunch of Italian circus
equestrians who do things that are
almost unbelievable, even when shown
in slow motion.
A “Crime Does Not Pay” and a Fitz-
patrick travel in color (Peru) complete
the issue.
“That Certain Woman.**
Ian Hunter, Henry Fonda, Donald Crisp,
Bette Davis.
Photographed in pelting rain—not be-
cause the piece calls for it, but quite
casually, giving a remarkable effect of
naturalness —the opening of this current
offering at Sydney State holds out
promise of powerful emotional drama.
Two women are seen running in the
downpour to catch a bus, then, still in
the wet, paying an anniversary visit with
flowers to a cemetery headstone. Add
to this a press photographer snapping a
picture, the smashing of his camera
against the headstone by a tough cus-
tomer keeping himself to the background,
and a bare few words of dialogue heavy
with meaning, and you have the idea
rather finely conveyed that the younger
woman has a past murky enough to still
serve the purpose of American sensa-
tional journalism, and that there are
rocks ahead for her in trying to live it
down.
The sullen fierceness of the camera-
smashing, especially, seems to fore-
shadow powerful dramatic developments.
Alas! the dramatic plane is immediately
shifted to a commonplace level —a hand-
ful of misunderstandings, vacillations
and hackneyed complications between
very ordinary people, with nothing par-
ticularly complex or notable in their
characters except readiness to make
heroic sacrifices when it suits the drama-
tist’s book.
Ingredients include marriage of the
young woman to son of wealthy, heavy
father; their parting, too easily arranged
by pa, who’s been excavating in her
past and who also, in due course, super-
vises their divorce. Then she produces
a son, but keeps him dark; if the man


l
lliilillll
:
30 Atcheson Street,
WOLLONGONG.
Messrs. William Arnott Pty., Ltd.,
HOMEBUSH.
Dear Sirs,
1 can highly recommend Arnott's Milk Arrow-
root Biscuits as my baby, “ Kevan," has been fed on
them since he Was six months old, and the other
children are very fond of them too, and I Wouldn't
be without them in the house as I think they are
very good for growing children.
Yours truly, •
( Signed ) Mrs. S. Baker.
During the past half-century over 40,000
photographs of strong, vigorous children
reared from the age of six months on
Arnott’s Famous Milk Arrowroot Biscuits have
been sent with testimonials by grateful
mothers to William Arnott, Limited.
Cbrucrtts
Famous
MILK ARROWROOT
BISCUITS
ĺ
she wed is to come back to her it must
be for herself alone. He, however, soon
drifts into marriage in Europe with one
of his own set, whom he shortly cripples
driving a car while blotto.
Of course they come together again,
and what with the cheild, the crippled
wife and then pa barging in again to
hold her past as proof that she’s no per-
son to bring up his son’s son, a tidy lot
of sacrificing is called for. There are
other complications; among them, the
young woman’s wealthy but gallant boss
loves her. The dramatist finally gets out
of his troubles by quietly killing off a
couple of characters.
The fine opening is simply too good
for it. Still, it is excellently acted, especi-
ally by Hunter, Crisp and Miss Davis.
Hunter makes the gallant boss part live,
Crisp cuts the heavy father part m
granite, and Miss Davis makes a very
natural job of the much-wronged young
woman. Also, hackneyed as its compli-
cations are, there are effective original
notes in it.
But it is a severe criticism of it that,
next to the opening, two of its highlights
are (1) when Crisp, in the midst of scath-
ingly dressing Miss Davis down, pauses
to ask her if she will have a cup of tea,
and (2) a back view of the small boy get-
ting himself into the trousers of a sailor
outfit. The small boy who plays this part
has the extraordinary virtue of silence.
“Paglictcci.”
Richard Tauber.
This opus at Sydney Lyric is an elabor-
ate and somewhat obscure English
attempt to turn Leoncavallo’s short opera
into a 90-minute screen melodrama.
Acting is as feeble as this critic has
ever seen, even in opera. There are
some effective scenes in technicolor, but
the bulk of the photography, plain or
colored, is poor.
Redeeming feature is the singing of
Richard Tauber, who, before he is
through, gets almost every familiar air in
the opera off his chest, including the
Prologue, “On with the Motley” and the
Serenade.
Steffa Duni, a very clever actress under
capable direction, makes as good a job
of Nedda as is possible with amateur-
ish support.
“Wings Over Africa. ,f
This support at Sydney Lyceum has its
points.
It has to do with a party that goes in
two aeroplanes to Central Africa after
diamonds found there by a since-dead
prospector. In Africa their quartet is
swollen to an octet by others on the
spot, not very nice pieces of work.
Diamonds found, there’s a spot or two
of murder, done by a perhaps unexpected
culprit. Effect of Africa on white
character is indicated, a la “White
Cargo.”
It’s quite competently acted, but the
best of it is the African scene, especially
the shots of animals taken from a ’plane.
Altogether, quite a useful entertainer.
■ “London Melody,” at Sydney Mayfair,
is the matter of a young lady of Soho,
something of a spitfire, who strikes up an
acquaintance with a head of the diplo-
matic service and, after being sidetracked
with his worthless junior for a while,
gets the better bloke. Best of it is a
corpulent chap who makes an excellent
sustained study of a parish priest.
In “Westbound Limited,” at Sydney
Capitol, Lyle Talbot is the railroad key-
man at a small siding to which comes a
bandif to snaffle a mine payroll. Some
signals are mixed, two trains collide head-
on, key-man’s convicted of manslaughter.
He escapes and turns hobo to make a
timely arrival at another siding and re-
place an ailing old-timer who must hang
on a few weeks longer to land a pension.
Trouble arrives when the mate on night
shift can’t make any headway with the
old chap’s daughter (Polly Rowles), and
spills the doings, but another smash is
averted and everything works out accord-
ing to formula. It’s all stirred in with a
couple of train smashes, a spot of shoot-
ing and some husky fighting. The kids'll
love it.
A.B.C. Shows .
Last week A.B.C. had Jim Davidson’s
Dance Band supporting several appear-
ances of Gladys Moncrieff at Sydney
Town Hall; also a return visit, at the
Con., of the Budapest Quartet, who seem
to have been wandering about the wilds
of Australia since antedeluvian times.
Over the air the Town Hall efforts
made the brightest shows A.B.C. has put
on for quite a while. The band and its
individual members showed a lot of ver-
satility—their hillbilly turn in especial,
was excellent —and Miss Moncrieff, as
usual in the best of voice, was heard in
such old musicomedy favorites as
“Rackety-Coo” and “Love Will Find a
Way.”
It was a good radio show, with plenty
for the listener.
So it struck the Sundry Showman who
stayed at home and listened. The one
who committed himself to a Town Hall
chair was struck by how much radio
listeners miss when shows like these are
put over.
For example, that hillbilly turn
singled out for praise by the listener.
Not less than 50 p.c. of its full value
doesn’t get on the air at all: it is to be
had only by watching the performers.
The same might be said of the dance
band altogether. A bright and lively
combination, its excellent comedy per-
formance engages the eye as much as the
ear.
Thus heard at the Town Hall both
Miss Moncrieff and band were in excep-
tionally fine fettle.
As for the Buda-Pests, these four
austere Austrians go on reciting the great
classical quartets with hierarchical pro-
fundity.
Sydney Tiv .
As is now the excellent fashion with
this sort of stage show, the new bill at
this address moves like five-to-six, ex-
cept when the audience interferes with
applause to steady it down.
No doubt about it there’s an audience
in Sydney for vaudeville-cwm-songan-
dance. The bill change was made on a
Thursday afternoon: no difference ; the
place was crowded.
Weakest part of it is feminine voices ;
strongest, broad comedy and dance.
The new comedian is a small, monkey-
like bloke named Dave Seed, and a seed
he is. Apart from dialogue, in which he’s
as adept as Mo, he’s an exceptionally
funny packet of comic antics. His turn
with Jack Janis and Lilian White is one
of the extra-bright spots.
An accomplished lady concertina-
swinger (Betty Aukland), a merry pair
(Reg Powell and Dorothy Brett; this
young woman a really funny comedienne,
and such things are rare), a good strong-
man-rubber-girl act (the Aristos),- an un-
commonly vigorous eccentric dancer
(Carl Shaw) and a boneless customer in
the same line (Fred Murray) all put on
good Tiv. entertainment.
These and other turns are strung to-
gether by the Tiv. Ballet, which demon-
strates very effectively that anyone of the
feminine order who comes to these parts
intent on making a hit with her chassis is
up against something than which there’s
nothing Australia does better.
Melbourne Art.
The cloud of art shows spread out
before the Christmas shopper thickens in
Melbourne.
Lina Bryans, George Bell, W. Frater,
Adrian Lawlor, A. M. Plante, Isabel
Tweddle and Louise Thomas exhibit at
the Stair Gallery wares of the modernist
persuasion.
In the same show veteran Rupert
Bunny purveys a line of goods of such
a comparatively antique fashion that it
seems to have strayed in by accident.
At the Hogan Galleries Noel Blaubaum
presents an array of landscapes and still-
life dedicated to his grandmother, who
believed in his potentialities for becom-
ing a painter when other people didn’t.
Mr. Blaubaum was first a pupil of
Rupert Bunny, and then of the National
Gallery, and the two influences struggle
for mastery in all but a few of his pic-
tures. Those few show a greater sensi-
tiveness to Nature than the others.
The largest and most impressive show
is that of Harley Griffiths, Jun., at the
Athenaeum. Griffiths has put an im-
mense amount of work into 60 canvases,
most of them of the largest dimensions.
“The Buffet” exhibits a sideboard occu-
pied by a roast turkey, pickles in bottles,
glasses of wine and all the appurtenances
of a feast for a Gargantua. Everything
is brought to the highest degree of finish
and the question arises, since the camera
can do it better, why do it?
That question does not arise so much
in connection with the landscapes.
A little picture in oils of a sudden
storm striking a yachting fleet is a
memory sketch, and as the mind, unlike
the camera, can retain only the simplest
elements of an impression, it is the most
likeable thing in the collection.


The Richardson Chain Hotel
rnii
THE
HOTEI
LONDON
99 Elizabeth St.,
(next Collins St.)
Melbourne
Hot and Cold
Water, Telephone
and Central Heat-
ing, Reading Lamp
to Every Bedroom.
MELBOURNE'S MOST
CENTRAL HOTEL.
RATES PER DAY.
Room and Meals .... from 12/6
Room and Breakfast . . from 7/6
ynR SECUR Irv
20 Investments In One!
That's what you get by becoming a Certificate Holder in
FIRST AUSTRALIAN UNIT TRUST. Spreading your
funds over the shares of 20 first-class companies, these Certifi-
cates provide also a yield of over 5f% p.a., and potential
capital appreciation. Custodian Trustees for investors:
Union Insurance Society of Canton, Ltd.
Write for Booklet No. 1 to the Managers : —
AUSTRALIAN FIXED TRUSTS PTY., LTD.,
8-14 Bond Street, Sydney.
Box 4028 V.V., G.P.O.
Telephone: 85294.
l
WILCOX, SMITH & CO
Postage Stamp Merchants,
Liverpool Street,
Dunedin, N.Z.
16 Page Buying and
Selling List Free.
Established 49 years.
Bankers: The Union.
Corns Sentenced to Death .
Corns have worried you—now worry them:
although “worry” is hardly the word, for
A’CORN SILK does not trifle with corns, but
ruthlessly kills them. How comfortable your
feet feel after A’CORN SILK has removed
all your soft or hard corns —a 6d. packet will
do this for you without pain or inconvenience.
Corns are killed while you sleep —a matter of
a few hours. Chemists sell A’CORN SILK at
6d. per packet. Packed by Felton, Grimwade
and Duerdins, Ltd., Melbourne.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
From the eight-pointed white cross on
the black cover of the programme the
Centuries Ball in aid of the St. John
Ambulance was a triumph of detail. The
pageant from which the ball took its
name was both romantic and spectacular,
and moved on the floor of the Town
Hall with a smoothness that would have
gratified any theatrical producer. The
chain which linked the groups of shining
and bejewelled splendor was the story of
the Order down the ages. Beginning with
a group of brown-cowled and -robed
pilgrims and monks who started the good
work at Jerusalem in the third century,
tfie procession flashed glimpses alike of
friend and foe. Here in Oriental
splendor, complete with wives and fan-
bearers, stepped the Caliph Hakim Bam-
rillah (J. S. Wilkinson), who drove the
Order from Jerusalem.
Very impressive were the knights of
the twelfth century, led by their founder,
Raymond du Puy. On the left breast of
each flowing black cloak gleamed the
eight-pointed white cross. Among the
ladies of this group walked Mrs. Bertie
Kelly, her green-velvet dress of Middle-
Ages cut embroidered in silver fleur-de-
lis, on her head a silver cap which
spread to a high point above each ear
and from which floated a long white
chiffon veil. Bertie Kelly’s headdress and
boots were of chain mail. His tunic was
a deep cream, the front of it bearing a
huge red cross. Mrs. Mick Dalton, from
Orange, represented Auvergne, of the
sixteenth century, in cornelian velvets.
The long jacketlike bodice of her frock
was edged below the hips with ermine,
as was her long sweeping train. Her
jewelled headdress was close-fitting, and
over each ear was a flat disk of dull
gold.
Mrs. Hugh Poate brought a touch of
Venice in the mighty days when the
news of all the world rang down the
Rialto. Her spreading skirts were in
lilac satins, her berthe and ruffles of
soft lace. Here and there were little
knots of ribbon. The whole was fin-
ished off with a tricorne hat. Mrs. C. L.
Jones, in the same set, had her hooped
cream skirts caught here and there with
blue pearls in groups of three. Her
pointed hat was of the same blue. Mrs.
Scott Waine brought turquoise blue and
silver, crusted with pearls, to this set.
Mrs. Lionel McFadyen and Mrs. Roy
Buckland also caused a murmur of
approbation.
Mrs. Ellis Fielding Jones glowed a
gold rose of Castile. Her frock was off
the shoulders, its long sleeves a series of
puffs, starting with a large one. Her
small jewelled headdress was bordered
with flowers. Mary Charlton was a
striking Portugal in red damask pat-
terned in gold. Sadie Budge was one of
the night’s prettiest; her lilac cape swept
back from a blue-and-gold costume.
Mrs. John McPhillamy’s bronze hair was
meshed in gold, her green-and-gold frock
belted in the same metal. Her cloak was
lined with purple. This was a fashion
out of the thirteenth century, as was the
cerise-and-gold worn by Ruby Adams.
Charles Philip was Napoleon, and Jose-
phine Marks a very regal Josephine. A
charming Queen Victoria led a group of
crinoline buds, among them Rosalind
Bowman and Robin Eakin. Among the
night’s handsome was Mrs. Ferrari Pass-
more, her ice-blue moires of thirteenth-
century design.
Add a liberal sprinkling of heralds in
mediaeval costume, red, yellow and blue
the tonings, their silver helmets finished
with red cockades; crisply starched
nurses of the St. John Ambulance
Brigade stretcher-bearers, the patients all
dressed up with white bandages ; Lilian
Frost at the organ pealing out “God
Save” and “Land of Hope and Glory.”
Add, too, the presence of the vice-regals
on a lily-and-flag-decked dais. Here sat
Lord Gowrie and Lord and Lady Wake-
hurst. Her hip-length coat of quilted
gold brocade and blue lace frock made
a nice color scheme. Mayoress Parkes,
the Kelso King lady, Lady Poynter and
Government House’s young guest,
Catriona Maclean, were also present.
Lord Ranfurly, Captain Bracegirdle,
Blake Pelly and Hermione Llewellyn
were in the group.
Visiting Sydney for the first time since
her marriage is Mrs. A. Hodges, who, as
Norda Mata, gave a series of dance re-
citals in Sydney. Norda, at the time,
was on a world tour, but in Brisbane, her
face turned towards Europe, she met
romance and settled down in Brisbane
instead.
Every big city store is showing what
the cinema people call a “trailer” of that
unrivalled production presented yearly
by Santa Claus. At Anthony Horderns’
on Brickfield Hill the gentleman takes
great pleasure in his land of fairy tides.
This has curving ways set on the right
and the left with magic panes. Behind
these you can see such old friends as
Hansel and Gretel in the very act of
finding the gingerbread house. Almost
opposite, the enchanted frog is disappear-
ing into the pool and emerging with the
golden ball, while a very elegant princess
throws up her arms in amazement. On
the steps of a grand palace the satin-and-
velvet-clad prince stoops for the glass
slipper while Cinderella hurries off. Poor
little Red Riding Hood turns and turns
again in fright to see the wolf so close.
But have no fear ; the good woodchopper
is watching from behind a tree. The
leaves of a tall palm rustle and care-
fully unfold, and there is Ali Baba, star-
ing down amazed as the cave door opens
and a gentleman of portly bearing steps
towards the opening.
At the Centuries Ball Gloria Cosgrave
was a crinoline bud. Last Sunday she
was a beach belle, very busy about the
Hawaiian beach picnic she and a group
of other ’teen-olds had arranged. This
was to help the £20,000 appeal for the
blind. It was a whole-day affair, start-
ing in the morning and ending with
songs around a camp-fire in the'’evening.
The sands of Bilgola were chosen for the
day’s disporting. There were Hawaiian
songs, a lunch cooked in the open, swim-
ming and games. The secretaries were
Mrs. Simpson Millar and Valerie Horne.
Gloria was the treasurer, Lesley Turner
president. Dorothy Welding photo.
The Blue Room at Usher’s was
crowded out with dancers and their
teachers when ballet-expert Felix Demery
and his wife were being welcomed to
Sydney. Over the long buffet table
where drinks were being poured and
savories clamored to be eaten, a sprightly
doll dressed as a ballerina in ice-blue
satin presided. Frances Scully, in suave
black, and silver fox, was one of the
handsome. The slim Mrs. Demery’s frock
was of black-and-white silk ; her small
black Breton sailor wore a perky bow
of white. Her flowers were red roses.
Lorraine Norton, the Gordon lady
and Mrs. David Cohen were others at
the party. Stephanie Edye came with
her mother. Doris Beattie, who goes off
to London next year to stay with her
married sister, who was well known on
the Australian concert platform, was an
old acquaintance who welcomed the Eng-
lish examiner.
This is the latest picture of the first
Australian Lady Mayoress of London.
Sir Harry Twyford, newly-installed as
boss of the Mansion House, met Ethel
Rose Honey when both were travelling.
She was from Woodville, near Adelaide,
and her father was shipping man Richard
Honey. Lady Twyford and her daughter
Ennis visited Sydney some years ago.
Mollie Walder paid her bridegroom,
John Human, the compliment of arriv-
ing punctually at St. Andrew’s Cathedral.
Snow white was the satin and tulle of
the bride’s classical gown, the tulle of
her veil sparkled with rhinestones. This
was caught over the forehead with a
cluster of white flowers, and her hands
were filled with gardenias. Five ’maids
in white satin, white butterflies poised
on their hair, their butterfly bouquets
made of November-lily petals, followed
the bride. Flower-girl Joan, and small
page-boy Brian were also clad in white
satin. November lilies were the flowers
in the Cathedral, and the service was
fully choral. Bride’s mother, the Sam
Walder lady, was attractive in cyclamen
and orchids beyond price. Mr. and Mrs.
John Human sail for England in the
Orcades. The ’groom’s home is at
Campden Hill Gate, London.
It almost seemed to the guests at
Mollie Walder’s wedding that they were
stepping into a sunset cloud when they
crossed the threshold of the reception
marquee. This was entirely lined with
rosy silk, the uprights, starting in a bank
of flowers, were swathed likewise, and
the lights were softly tinged with rose.
All told there were 250 guests. The
supper was not one of those stand-and-
balance affairs, but an honest-to-good-
ness sit-down one. The tables were
decked with trailing standards, and the
service ran with commendable ease. It
was an old-fashioned wedding, with real
speeches. ’Groom John Human made a
speech, agreeing that the great catch of
his career was Mollie Walder. Mollie’s
father, knight Sam Walder, made a
speech; so did the best man, and John
Butters, who is an old friend of the
Human family. Plum Warner’s cable of
congratulation was read aloud.
The marquee was built out over the
harbor (the bride’s home is at Darling
Point), and presently when the supper
was ended and the cake cut the bridal
table was moved aside, the canvas end
lifted, the pink silk looped back, and
through the opening could be seen the
harbor, silver with moonlight. Here and
there a ferry moved goldenly, and the
showboat, with all lights blazing, cruised
about.
The liner is a lady all right when she
carries the swagger of the Orcades. The
latest belle of the Orient line to come to
Port Jackson she trails 35 feet more of
splendid length than the Matson liners.
She has breadth and depth to corre-
spond. A special note of exclusiveness is
struck by the air-conditioned flats. These
have stateroom (air-conditioned), bath-
room, entrance hall, boxroom, living-
room and pantry complete with ice-chest
and breakfast-heater. Please pass the
millionaire and the honeymoon. Of
course you will choose No. 1 Port Side,
because that has its furniture and doors
made from elm from the foundations of
Waterloo Bridge. From its 100 years in
the Thames the wood has emerged a
tender silver grey.
Its spaciousness is the arresting thing
about this new ship. You get it in the
immense sports deck ; eight times around
the promenade deck makes a mile.
There are cafes, taverns, open-air
swimming-pool, windows instead of port-
holes, bars and a nursery embellished
with cherry, plane, elm and apple woods.
In short if you didn’t care to walk to the
side and look over you need never know
you were at sea. lmportants to make the
first journey in the ship were chairman of
the line I. C. Geddes and his wife, who
launched the Orcades. Princess Melikoff,
who was Pauline Curran, of Tasmania,
came back after five years’ absence.
Warrant Officer D. W. Small, fresh from
a course of instruction in England, was
another returnee.
Stephanie Edye will again give a
Spanish,dance recital to aid the Far West
Children’s Health scheme. Elsa Brunel-
leschi, who taught Stephanie in London,
also designed her dresses, and these
breathe the atmosphere of Old Castile.
Three dances from “The Three-cornered
Hat” will have the inspiring De Falla
music, and will be presented for the first
time in Sydney. Margaret Chalmers
and Mary Brett will be at the pianos.
Mary Brett’s “Serenade to a Spanish
Dancer” will be sung by Walter Kings-
ley. The Con. on Friday night will echo
to the castanets.
There was something touching about
the groups of Chinese —fathers and
mothers, small boys and girls, babies
sometimes—going into the basement of
the Town Hall last Friday. Their pen-
nies were being taken to help the Red
Cross appeal for medical supplies for
China. That was what the Fair in the
Town Hall meant, and here on the stalls
beauty from China was displayed. Here
were satin-smooth glazes and egg-shell
cups and saucers brilliant of coloring. On
small bowls, to be had for a shilling or
two, red and gold dragons ramped.
Pretty girls in their national instep-
long straight frocks sold the wares, and
small sons of China helped by selling
tickets for chances in radios and Christ-
mas cakes. Before the evening session
the stocks were running low, which spoke
well for the keenness of the buyers.
Archbishop Mowll opened the fair.
Many of Sydney’s well-known attended.
Consul-General Pao and his wife were
in the official group.
Binnie Marlay, of Clayfield, Brisbane,
and Mervyn Crombie, of Katandra,
Hughenden, North Queensland, decided
to come to Sydney for their wedding.
This event is fixed for to-day at All
Saints’, Woollahra, and cousin Sheila
Shekleton, of Double Bay, with whom
Binnie has been staying, will be brides-
maid. Sheila, with Carlotta and Flor-
ence Doyle, poured sherry in honor of
the betrothed last Friday in the Women
Pioneers’ Club.


#gimeg (Grammar irijmil
Ifmts£
The School has a Boarding Side, established in 1927, conducted
under the direction of the Trustees by a School House Board.
Early application for 193 8 is essential. Apply for Prospectus to: —
THE HEADMASTER,
COLLEGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
¥
rrs
A,
1
V
enu
% very thing. . ‘Ovaltine Cold'
THE perfect summer drink is “Ovaltine”—served Cold.
It is not only deliciously creamy and refreshing, but it
is also supremely nourishing and sustaining.
Remember that a glass of “Ovaltine” will make the lightest
summer meal complete in health-giving nourishment. And
there is nothing like it for renewing energy whenever you
feel tired or listless.
Be sure you ask for “Ovaltine”—cold or hot—at Cafes,
Restaurants and Milk Bars. And when at home make
“Ovaltine” your regular daily beverage. It is quickly
prepared by adding “Ovaltine” to cold or hot milk.
And remember that “Ovaltine” when added to milk not
only increases the palatability of the milk and makes it
acceptable to everyone, but also renders it readily digestible
and far more nourishing. Reject substitutes.
TRIAL SAMPLE: A generous trial sample of “Ovaltine,"
sufficient to make four cupsful, will be sent on receipt of 3d. in
stamps to cover cost of packing and postage. See address below
OVALTINE
Cj)cij^ s CO LOorH OT
PRICES: 1/9, 2/10, 5/-. All Chemists and Stores
A. WANDER LIMITED. 1 YORK STREET NORTH. SYDNEY
039-18-3?
Thanhs for the Swan
- it’s a gift worth having!
whatever the
occasion may he
Search where you will, you’ll find
no gift with so many points in its
favour as a Swan Pen. Personal,
practical and guaranteed for a life-
time, you have the choice between
the world’s two most up-to-date pens
—The VISOFIL (the c Big-fill’) and
the LEVERLESS (the ‘ Quick-fill ’).
Why not see and try them both at
any good Stationers or Jewellers ?
You’ll find a style and a price
for everyone. And one great thing
about giving Swans is that when
they say c Thank you ’—they really
do MEAN it!
The VISOFIL
Holds more ink,
and shows it to
you—you can see
just when the ink
is running low.
ĺ
PRICES— 77ze VISOFIL Swan,
with clip and mount of rolled gold,
32 16. Ladies' Size, without clip,
27/6. LEVERLESS Swans from
21/-. Other Swans from 15/-.
Blackbirds from lif-. Fyne-Poynt
Pencils from 7/6. All available
in black or colours. Made
throughout in England.
twMlPeMt
The LEVERLESS
Double-quick
filling is the
feature of this pen
—two half-turns
of the top and
your pen is filled
in a flash !
ļ
Whatever your pen, always use SWAN INK
Mabie> Todd & Co. (Australia), Pty., Ltd., 6, Primrose Buildings,
255 A, George St., Sydney.
A. 5.37
The nrofunditv of your hat know-
led-e thh season will be judged by the
shallowness of your crown. If you are
really smart you wear your hat well
back, your forehead bare and (if the
sun comes out) your nose a bit raw. This
Letter intends to stick to a brim, and not
one of those that go up instead of slop-
ing down or standing out straight. If the
weather turns as warm as it is expected
we’ll all be stretching out a hand for one
of those tulle dresses Pans has
for evening. With these you wear a tulle
or lace mantilla, and feel glamorous, even
though you probably look a bit of a
bon-bon. It’s a matter of height. A tail
„irl, mantilla-wrapped, at one of last
week’s dances, set all the lads wishing
they had guitars or were toreadors.
Glitter is the password for embellish-
ments of the frock worn to cocktail party
or d ance * Paillettes, plain or gone
gipsyish, will be boldly scrolled or
worked into delicate motifs on every sort
of fabric. The broadcloth frock for even-
ing is making another try to capture the
fancy. But no matter what she has worn
in the way of woollies during the day,
woman likes to return as close as she
can to the mother Eve model in the
evening. The more diaphanous her rai-
ment the more festive she feels. The
threatened short skirt for evenings has
not y et But there’s less top than
W£ been seeing, and low squares
are once a g a { n fashionable for the neck-
..
’ + , . , ~ .
Greatest scoop on the part of director
Noel Monkton in the Lake Barnne scene
of “Typhoon Treasure” is the working
into the story of one of Australia’s rarely
seen marsupials, the cuscus. The cuscus
is a mixture of possum-koala-monkey,
and can be vicious when he likes. They
are rarely seen outside the Cape York
district. The fur is better than possum
and thicker. There is a knack in handling
them. The hand must be placed under
the belly to the neck while the other hand
holds the back. Immediately the cus-
cus feels the hand touching him his tail
twines round the arm. He is then
confident that he is safe, but if his
tail is not hanging on to something he
is frightened. It is not every cuscus
that can claim the pleasure of hanging
to such a charming person as Gwen
Munro, star of the picture.
. ~ , j. , t-x xt
A Saturday party for the Day Nur-
series was held in the cool quiet of the
Forum Club, and music was the oral
menu concocted by those two masters
of their craft Mrs. Sterling Levis and
Mrs. Norman Macleod. Duets for the
piano and dulcitone were played ty Mrs.
Levis and daughter Joan. Joan’s frock
was of sheer, all summer-sky blue and
white. Mrs. Norman Macleod, who was
with her husband, and guest of honor, the
Mungo MacCallum lady, wore with her
flowered silk linen suit a tiny round toque
of gold cellophane suggestive' of Flor-
ence in the Middle Ages. Charles
Philip, Sheila Nicholas, Ron Wilkinson
and Margaret Chalmers were music-
™kers - Edna Montgomery recited,
President of the P.E.N. Club Elliott
Napier can act as well as write. He made
his theatrical comeback at the drawing-
room entertainment at the Australia
given for the benefit of the Independent
Theatre. In company with the Alex-
an(jer Gordon lady, Prudence Vanbrugh
rs Jimmy Dickson) and others he
p i aye d i n Barrie’s “Let’s Join the
Ladies.” Elliott has recently brought
out a book of verse which has the
sylvan and Omarish title Underneath the
Bough. This Letter, even as the lady in
the dedication, likes them all, but gives
“October in Sydney” first place.


0
'N
%
s'
•tv'
X
5r A
NOW
HERE’S A JOB !
Imagine getting paid—and well paid, too —for amusing your-
self with a pencil! The point is that your sketches will amuse
others, too, and Editors are always on the lookout for sketches
to brighten their columns.
That is one reason why there is such a demand for
PROPERLY-TRAINED ARTISTS. Another reason is found
in the tremendous growth of Illustrated Advertising. Millions
of pounds are spent each year in Australia alone on posters,
news-advertisements, catalogues, etc. Truly, industry needs
Commercial Art, and because there is a shortage of suitable
men and women Commercial Art needs YOU.
Have you latent drawing ability worth
training? Send a copy of the above sketch
or any other you have done and WE
WILL GIVE YOU EXPERT ADVICE free
of charge.
If requested, we will also send you, without obligation,
particulars of our specialised Home Study Training Course,
prepared by 16 of Australia’s leading Artists, including
Mr. Ted Scorfield.
When sending your sketch mention The Bulletin.
ART TRAINING INSTITUTE
80 SWANSTON STREET, MELBOURNE
Melbourne
Chatter
The air-conditioned luxury train Spirit
of Progress gave guests invited to its
debut two and a half hours of the best
kind of entertainment, relaxation of
mind and body. When the train arrived
at Geelong on its first run nobody left
the warm inside temperature for the
wintry outer regions. The streamlined
monster Edward Henty did a spot of
shunting and muffled coughing (the new-
est engines have quieter habits than their
fussy little long-funnelled ancestors) and
set off again on a speedy journey home.
Women were a very small percentage
among the 300 guests invited for the
initial excursion. Mrs. Harold Clapp
made a point of coming back from her
Queensland holiday to be present. Mrs.
Geoff Smith chose the flowers for the
drawing-room car, bowls of peony roses
in three shades placed upon the low tables
that are handy for books and magazines.
The chairs are the sort that one sinks
right into, the color scheme for furnish-
ings uses soft shades of sage-green, sky-
blue and old-rose. Wife of the Minister
for Railways, Mrs. Bussau, carried out
the duties of hostess for the womenfolk.
Engineering Commissioner for Railways
Norman Harris brought Mrs. Harris and
Mrs. I. H. Moss. Transport Commis-
sioner for Railways M. J. Canny in-
vited his wife, Mrs. Ray White and
Mrs. John O’Driscoll. Inter-State Com-
missioners Hartigan and Anderson were
also present with their wives. Morning-
tea was served in the parlor car and in
the smaller compartments.
Melbourne is rubbing out of its eyes
the lethargy which comes as a reaction
from Cup festivities. Parties are falling
like showers around the shoulders of
brides-of-the-month Phyllis Mein, Sheila
Sullivan and Mary Caple, and Betty
Shackell is also coming in for felicita-
tions on her engagement to John Arm-
strong. Barbara Byrans and Jock Nettle-
fold were guests of honor at several
parties before their marriage on Thurs-
day at Christ Church, South Yarra, and
Joan Christian and Geoff Howard were
much feted as a prelude to their matri-
monial date at the Wattle-tree-road kirk.
The latter couple shared with Eileen
Mussen and Ivan Croft the limelight of
Mrs. G. A. Christian’s party at Menzies.
It was a very gay party, at which every-
body spent so much time getting round
the room trying to talk to everybody else
that time was of no account, and eight
o’clock came as a shock. By general
consent the Marcus Show was the next
port of call for many of the guests.
A further series of private parties were
welcomes to friends from overseas who
returned to a week of boisterous winds
and low temperatures, though Christmas
lilies used for the festive decorations
were an optimistic reminder that summer
has sent the garden some indication of
a tardy arrival. Mrs. Charles Lyon’s
party was in honor of the Princess Meli-
koff, but the Princess, unfortunately, had
to leave for Sydney that evening and
was unable to be present. The J. R.
Murphys entertained for Mrs. Bruce
Hedderwick. Mrs. Fred Thiel’s at-home
at her flat in Melbourne Mansions was
a welcome to the Richard Lintons and
a good-bye to Fred Beits, who leave for
Europe by the Nieuw Holland via Singa-
port and Java.
The W. H. Murphys’ festive occasion
centred in their daughter, Mrs. Harry
Sinn, and her husband, who have
just returned from 18 months abroad.
To this party Mrs. Sinn wore an
attractive frock of blush-pink net with
appliques of flowers used as camouflage
for pockets. Mrs. Guy Williams gath-
ered together friends of her sister,
Mrs. Rex Johnson, who with her hus-
band has lately come down from Shang-
hai. This couple consider themselves
lucky in getting out of that international
city before bombs became plentiful. As
they were preparing to go on leave they
had their trunks packed, and had little
difficulty in getting from their home in
the French Concession to the Bund and
on board their steamer. They are stay-
ing with Mrs. Johnson’s mother, Mrs. F.
J. Clarke, of Kooyong.
During the bridge party and cafe
chantant for the Alfred Hospital Myer’s
grillroom became a bobbing sea of
feminine hats and, in between musical
items, a bedlam of feminine tongues, for
there was capacity booking for the
tables squeezed as close together as pos-
sible. Beyond the folding doors sat the
people who wanted a more serious game.
In the larger room were folk who man-
aged to do three things at once —play,
talk and listen. This year the Alfred
auxiliaries are working for the first time
without any men. The newly-elected
president, Mrs. Barry Thomson, reports
that an auspicious start has been made,
that rallies to all meetings have been
and that rallies to &
Ve k y m e on ß o Se n Sho helped at *e bridge
beli y who re wMe n a S suit of chestnut tweed
j, W 1 u * . „*- j Q hon
treas a MrTo 3 Hayter, whose little green
cap picked up the emerald tones in her
floral frock The selling of raffle tickets
McLennan, whose tailored black frock
went with an off-the-face black hat. Mrs.
A. E. Radford and Mrs. W. Gartside
were the destinies who rolled up raffle
coupons for the fate of a bunch of hand-
some prizes.
Among the young contingent were
Gwen Hattam, wearing a halo hat with
her figured frock, Jean Mitchell and
Pamela Fleming-Dunstan, who wore
around her diminutive black hat a swathe
of Paisley silk knotted and falling in
long scarf ends. Mrs. G. J. Coles super-
vised the flower stall, where water-lilies
packed in cellophane boxes proved very
popular with women who wanted some-
thing to adorn their wraps for that even-
ing. After the party, while everyone was
waiting turns to squeeze into the lifts,
flower, cake and sweets stalls disposed
of the last of their wares. There was
nothing left to look like a missed in-
crement of profit.
In the Dickinson-Monteath picture is
Mrs. C. W. A. Scott, wife of the aviator
Captain Scott who, with the late
Campbell Black, won the centenary air
race. Mrs. Scott had only five days in
which to make up her mind to come to
to Australia, to let her flat, pack
crystal and, with her husband’s assist-
ance, get herself on board the ship just
before it sailed. She had no time to col-
lect summer clothes, and has brought
only an autumn wardrobe with her,
which, judging by last week’s weather,
is just what she wants for Melbourne.
Mrs. Scott flies sometimes with her hus-
band, who does a lot of demonstrating
and lecturing throughout England, but
she isn’t particularly keen about air
travel. Yachting is more to her taste.
Her Australian holiday, an alternative to
a season of winter sports in Switzerland,
has materialised as a result of Captain
Scott’s flying engagements out of
London for the next few months. Mrs.
Scott, who before her marriage was
Greta Bremner, will take part in a family
reunion in Sydney before she sails for
London in February.
Dorothy Parnham, who has been away
for four years, was given a welcome
home with cocktails by her sisters and
Mrs. P. Lock. Mrs. Lock wore navy-
blue crepe sheer, a white hat and silver-
fox furs. Dorothy, whose job as a
mannequin has taught her to emphasise
her type, stressed her more than average
height by adding more height, eight
inches or so from her peaked black
hat and a few more inches from the
heels of her Dick Whittington shoes,
which curled up high like boots at the
back of the heels. She wore two pairs
of gold Cupids, the larger twins as
brooches, the smaller as ear clips.
Dorothy and Flying-Officer John Lerew
found they had some childish remini-
scences to talk about. Another pair who
laughed over the days when they ate one
another’s ice-creams were Alex. Hill-
house and Mrs. C. W. A. Scott.
Mrs. Maurice Sloman celebrated her
twelfth wedding anniversary by inviting
some of her friends to a matinee at the
Windsor Theatre, for which she chose a
programme of all-color films, “The
Legend of the Lei,” Mickey Mouse in
“The Worm Turns” and (because the
guests were women and all women love
clothes) “The Vogues of 1938.” After-
wards everybody gathered in the foyer
for tea, where conversation kept drifting
back to fashions and the glamor of dress
shows.
But not all the snappy notions were
upon the screen. Nell Gans wore navy
blues, her frock cleverly laced up the
front, with wide pipings of red-and-white
linen. Her white felt hat was impeccable
in spite of its elopement en route with
the wind in Toorak-road. Mrs. John
Cordner’s navy dress emphasised the im-
portance of buttons, which masqueraded
in the guise of mother-of-pearl butter-
flies. Joyce Dickson’s green frock was
made in tunic fashion ; her cap was
merely a suggestion, and her shoes were
black suede, high-heeled and toeless.
Last week undergrads, wrote a page
in University history by holding con-
jointly “The Shop’s” first scavenger hunt
and the first dance to take place in the
new Union House. About 200 young
folk came along, and those who didn’t
want to scavenge christened with pumps
and sandals the new floor, which they
voted a good surface, though the cement
foundation reduces its springiness. Forty
clues had to be collected by the scav-
engers and four couples got 36 of them,
Beryl Anderson, who celebrated her
twenty-first birthday the next day, being
appropriately one of the winners. The
most difficult clue proved to be a “red
flannel petticoat.” Only one couple got
it (a doll’s to wit).
“A yabbie” made a knotty problem,
though a few came bottled from the
Zoology School. “A black cat with
one white paw” was made over by
Elizabeth Pitt and Jean Ince with
the Women’s College kitten, paste
and some flour. “Some raisin bread”
took most hunters to the same shop,
where the baker came down to selling
his last loaf at Id. per slice. “A snail”
was the cause of bedraggled shoes and
not much luck. One meek-voiced lad
put in the plea that he’d had one, but it
got away, which carried na weight with
the committee, whose businesslike
members even went into town to collect
the autograph of the spruiker at the
Tivoli, whose signature was one of the
clues.
Everybody brought in a hair from a
horse’s tail, and all saw eye to eye about
a piece of white paper representing the
“portrait of a swan eating marshmallows
in a snowstorm.” The doorway was
cluttered up with dozens of “No Park-
ing” signs, which road furnishings are
much favored by organisers of scavenger
hunts, for there is not much fuss made
about borrowing them provided they are
returned by midnight. Retiring president
of the C.M.U.W. Rachel Farrer and
president-elect Helen Balfour were both
among the raiders. Ticket secs. Lynette
Walker and Marjorie McCredie and
organiser June Wilkinson checked up
clues and saw that all competitors still
competing were back on the dance-floor
by 10.30 p.m.
Although she wasn’t in Melbourne long,
Princess Melikoff made time to have this
photo, taken at Broothorn’s. The Prin-
cess has many friends here, and means
to see something of them before she
returns to London. She is also planning
a visit to her home town of Hobart.
Mrs. J. B. Curran is accompanying her
youngest daughter, who, with her sisters,
is endowed with more than an average
share of beauty, charm of manner and
eye for clothes.
Mrs. Phillip Gell and her daughter,
Mollie Clapham, are among returned-
from-the-Coronation travellers who are
being welcomed by friends at home. One
party for them was given by Mrs. James
McDougall in her large flat at Cliveden,
where the hostess’s sister, Mrs. J. K.
Wedge, of Cootamundra, was also a
guest. Mrs. Gell wore a silver-fox cape
with her bead-embroidered gown of black
sheer, and her hair peeped through the
slits in the crown of her folded black
hat. Mollie chose an ensemble of navy
cloque and a tiny skull-cap over which
fluttered a mesh veil. Mrs. McDougall’s
navy gown was glittersome with silver
lame upon corsage and hem


sg'\
\
X
p .*
1
-=< 1/ oS 1
When a MAN
tells you
that he is fifty-four and
the young folk envy his
sound white teeth,
that they are following
his example in using
Calvert’s Tooth Powder,
that it refreshes his mouth
too after a hard day's
smoking
Well, don’t you think it is
worth trying for your teeth!
f.c
teeth p>
t
cl
/
cun
HI) eh
me
a
V>AR<f
*
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
• “Chelaka”: Though only partly civi-
lised, by a curious paradox New Guinea
is probably the most air-minded island on
the globe. In 1927 the first airline was
established, 350 passengers and 200 tons
of freight being carried. Since then two
other lines have commenced operations,
and last year 19,239 passengers were
transported. The freight rose to 40,000
tons and included mining machinery,
motor-cars, horses and a mob of cows.
* * * *
“Balmoral”: Brisbane’s Lord Mayor
Jones is taking credit for thinking out
“an original scheme” for running a pas-
senger service up and down the river
from outlying suburbs to the city. As
long ago as 1890 a private company was
supplying a service of the kind with two
superannuated Sydney ferries. The run
was from Bulimba, down river, to the
city, half a dozen stops being made on
the way. The co. did well, but took the
knock in the 1893 depresh. At the city
end the boats decanted and took up
their passengers practically on the door-
step of the old Queen’s Hotel, run by
Barney Phillips, a brother of Mrs.
Maclurcan, later known in Sydney in
connection with the Wentworth. This
was most convenient, for before going to
the office one could take a corrective to
the morning mists and, going home at
night, safeguard oneself against the chill
dews of evening.
* * * *
“Ex-Mister”: There’s been some queer
weather in the neighborhood of Bris-
bane lately. Meteorological observations
showed that during one October day
within a space of less than six consecu-
tive miles winds were blowing from three
different directions simultaneously—west,
nor’-west and nor’-east. The westerly
was a hurricane of 197 m.p.h., only three
m.p.h. less than that which wrecked
coastal Florida and a dozen West Indian
islands and blew the funnel out of the
Phemius a couple of years ago. It passed
clear over Brisbane, but no damage was
reported although it was blowing for the
best part of a day. The nor’-wester, four
miles away, registered 20 m.p.h. and the
nor’-east was a mere breeze. On looking
this over, I find that I omitted to say
that the distances were measured verti-
cally, not horizontally.
* * * $
“Dungeness”: A terrific uproar at the
tracker’s hut brought a N.Q. police ser-
geant out on the verandah, to find
Tommy, the tracker, laying into his eldest
offspring, aged 12, with a stirrup-leather.
It is rarely that abos. chastise their child-
ren, and when Tommy brought up the
evening’s wood the sergeant inquired
tactfully as to the cause of the trouble.
“Too much yabber, too much fightem,
that pfeller,” explained Tommy. “Bitem
mother b’long him, kickem twopfeller
sister, sing out old blankard along me,
puttim firestick ’long Gubmint blanket.
Too much think him all same that pfeller
Muss’lini.”
X * * *
“Captain Pintle”: A lot of sea-history
lies rotting and rusting on the weed and
mud of Bishop Island in Moreton Bay.
Only a few scraps remain of the Rod-
erick Dhu, which once spread white
canvas above the slate-and-black stripes
of a Queensland “recruiter’s” shapely
hull, and kept a waking anchor watch
when no women or children appeared on
the beach. The Yosemite, Yankee-built
in the 1860’s; the Maidu, a teak-built
barque born near the Shwai Daigon
temple, and the sky-pointing ribs of the
steamer Queensland lie near the cage-
like skeleton of the Bingera, famous mail
express from Brisbane to Townsville and
back once weekly. Through fair
and dirty, cyclone or clock-calm, Cap-
tain John Mackay held her to a schedule
that lightkeepers were said to set their
clocks to in pre-wireless days, and after,
too. And the Lucinda lies a short way
off on Wreck Island—no lady liner, but
on her was born the first draft of the
Australian Constitution.
H*
“Dungeness”: An old wooden pub,
the Carriers’ Arms, still complete with
license at Maryborough (Q.), saw some
lively days and nights in the long-ago.
Before the rail reached Gympie and
Gayndah it was the favorite spelling-
ground for bullock teams operating be-
tween these prosperous new towns and
Maryborough, their port. Fortunes
passed across its bar. Other fortunes
came and went in the backyard on cock-
fights, dogfights and man-fights—£2oo
was nothing unusual for bets on any
species of willing scrap. A hefty blood-
wood tree 75 yards from the verandah
corner formed the essential feature in a
favorite sporting event, a man on foot
racing a horseman round it and back.
The ped. generally won by his lead on
the turn. Beer strikes meant nothing in
those brave days. The favorite tipple was
rum, and, when asked what he would
have with it, any real bullocky would
reply: “More rum, missus.”
* * * #
“Gidya George”: When I left W.Q. a
few years ago the parkinsonia tree was
taking out naturalisation papers. Seeds
which had escaped from gardens and
“It'll be nice t' 'ave a bit o' comp’ny too, ma, when I'm away.”
irrigated plots about station homesteads
had been borne by wind, flood, birds and
other means to spots out bush. In areas
which suited them the parkinsonias took
hold and found the taking good. They
were so vigorous and so greedy that,
as the clump expanded, any native tree
in the way had to give up the ghost.
“Dead finish” scrub isn’t a patch on
parkinsonia. I’ve raced through both.
I left more of myself behind me in the
parkinsonias than I did in the “dead
finish.” Parkinsonia is a good fodder
plant, though rather sparse in foliage,
and stock prefer the leaves after they've
lain a week to 10 days rather than take
them fresh from the tree. The seeds, of
which there are millions, have some oil
property which is akin to linseed in the
shine it puts on the stock that eat them.
There used to be a big patch forming
out Lm Maxwelton Station; another
was on the downs between Hughenden
and another lot was on an
outer billabong of the Con hole at
Elderslie station. What s happened to
them? Have they increased and multi-
plied or have they turned up their toes
in the droughts?
„ _ , .. . * I. w . .
* Australia Jane S Budget
Bessie Alexander Ogg, one of our most
notable young golfing girls, daughter of
llie C. W. Oggs, of Springsure, was mar-
ried to George, son of Mr. and Mrs.
T. A. Clapperton, Nanango, at St. John’s
Cathedral Charlotte Capper was brides-
maid. The honeymooners are touring
the N. S. Wales Northern Rivers.
The Master Builders’ Assoc, has been
holding a convention in Brisbane, and
there have been lots of tea-drinkings for
their wives, trips t 6 Cleveland and
the pineapple districts round that old
township, a visit to Mount Coot-tha and,
of course, a trip across the Hornibrook
Highway to Redcliffe. The Blair lady
went to the first big party, and president
H. Courtney and his wife were host and
hostess at an evening reception.
Posies tied with ribbon of the Cameron
tartan for the Blair lady and Lady
Mayoress Jones, and a cake decorated
with the Scottish crest and realistic
thistles were features of the bridge and
card party in aid of the kilt fund of the
Queensland Cameron Highlanders. About
200 players grouped round the green
tables, which should mean quite a few
kilts for our new regiment.
The trousseau-viewing party given by
Mrs. E. G. Davies, prior to the wedding
°f ber daughter Sybil to John Woodward,
was a departure from the ordinary,
be^ rley McNevm and Joyce Davies
ac^ d as mannequins, and displayed the
and P retbes t 0 ad ™ring
Herries third dail „ htpr nf F F
and Noel ’ Walker> o § nly son aad
Mrs . H j Walker, intended a fussless
wedding, but the church was crowded
with uninvited guests who wanted to see
Herries in bridal array. She wore
myosotis-blue triple ninon, ankle-length,
and with short sleeves. A quilted hat of
tbe same material, and a quaint bouquet
of magnolias in the shape of a crescent
completed the toilette. There was a re-
ception afterwards at the home of the
florakpattemed frockln'gfeTntnd blue
tones, received. The honeymoon is being
spent motoring.
Mrs M< Bachj Madge Garrawayj of
Herberton that was, whose husband is
Swiss Trade Commissioner in the Far
East, is at present in Brisbane with her
three children, all born in Japan. The
family had four years in Switzerland,
and then Mr. Bach went to Shanghai,
Mrs. Bach’s sister Yolande, who is Mrs.
J. W. Bishop, is still in Shanghai.
St. Mary’s Church of England, Kan-
garoo Point, has celebrated its sixty-
fifth birthday with a week of festival,
winding up with a two-day fete, which
Mrs. A. E. Moore opened.
At the Gainsborough Gallery art
students of the Technical College are
holding their biggest annual display.
Majority of the exhibits are pictures—
oils, water-colors and black-and-whites —
but there also is some good pottery, and
some chip-carving and modelling. W. E.
Huston, winner of the Wattle Day Art
Scholarship, submitted 20 entries, includ-
ing a self-portrait which shows more
than a touch of genius. He is that young
artist who, almost self-taught, scooped
the majority of the awards in the art
section of the Royal National Show last
year.
“The Pied Piper,” by Marjorie Mant,
one of this State’s young playwrights, is
to be produced by Edith Rowatt for the
Brisbane Child Theatre movement. All
our am. dram. socs. are gaining so greatly
in popularity, as well as in membership,
that the old dream of a special amateur
theatre somewhere in the city is nearer
to realisation than ever before.
Linga Longa, the Sandgate home run
by the metropolitan branch of the
C.W.A., celebrated its twelfth birthday
on Armistice Day. Mrs. J. P. Peterson
presided, and Mrs. Forgan Smith went
along to listen to the annual summing-
up and to congratulate matron and com-
mittee on a good record of work. Dur-
ing the year 156 women and 216 chil-
dren from country centres have spent a
holiday at the home.
The Women’s Auxiliary of the Too-
wong sub-branch of the R.5.5.1.L.A.,
always on the alert for a chance to make
a few pounds for distress and Christmas-
cheer funds for Diggers, seized the op-
portunity when the Toowong Rowing
Club held its regatta, and arranged a fete
for the same time and place. J. Maxwell,
M.L.A., opened it, and H. Frazer East,
president of the fete committee, intro-
duced him. Few of the stallholders had
any leftovers.


m
y :
, rom London
conies Gordons
/
\A'«
\NoV
A
t
e
e
C
C
mmm
A
0
i Mgs
V\V\^
e'
0 *
<1
HAS MEDICINAL PROPERTIES 1
MSMII
House For Sale.
PYMBLE, SYDNEY’S SELECT SURURB.
TWO STOREY BRICK RESIDENCE.
Containing wide entrance hall, 8 fine rooms,
billiard or ballroom, tennis court, sewered, all
offices,
2 GARAGES. 3 LOOSE BOXES.
PRICE, £5OOO.
Standing in 2 acres of land, with two frontages
and commanding excellent views, this property
should appeal to the Country Gentleman or
horse-lover, being only 12 minutes to Pymble
Station and within |-hour of City. Inspection
by appointment with O’SULLIVAN & CO.,
PYMBLE—JX2422.
Notice to Next-of-kin.
THOMAS MILLER, late“of Lorraine Station,
via Cloncurry, in the State of Queensland,
Stockman, Deceased, Intestate.
NOTICE is hereby given that GEORGE
(JOHN) MILLER and/or his issue and
CLARA JOHNSON and/or her issue, and all
other persons claiming to be next-of-kin of
the abovenamed, who died at Lorraine Station,
aforesaid, on the Twenty-fifth day of February,
One thousand nine hundred and twenty-seven,
are required to forward proofs of their claims
to the LOCAL DEPUTY PUBLIC CURATOR,
Townsville, on or before the Fourteenth day
of January, One thousand nine hundred and
thirty-eight, and after that the last-mentioned
date the said the Local Deputy Public Curator,
Townsville, shall distribute the estate disregard-
ing the claims of all such persons, and persons
claiming by through or under them by deri-
vative title or otherwise howsoever, who shall
not then have made their claims..
DATED this Nineteenth day of November,
1937. .
J. B. O’DUFFY,
Local Deputy Public Curator,
Townsville.
Personal and Missing Friends.
WILL any person knowing the whereabouts of
any relative of MATHEW NATHAN
BARNEY, late of Molesworth, Thargomindah,
Queensland, Grazier, please communicate with
the undersigned immediately.
JAMES G. DRAKE,
Solicitor, A.M.P. Building,
Edward Street, Brisbane.
THE descendants of MRS. ELIZABETH
MERCER (nee Robertson), who it is believed
died during 1910, are invited to communicate
with THE UNION TRUSTEE COMPANY OF
AUSTRALIA, LTD., Sydney, in connection
with the distribution of an estate.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1797 of 1937.
BETWEEN DORIS CRISSIE SEERY Peti-
tioner
And MICHEAL JOHN SEERY Respon-
dent.
TO MICHEAL JOHN SEERY late of Walgett.
TAKE NOTICE that the said DORIS
CRISSIE SEERY has commenced a suit against
you in this Honorable Court and is applying
for a dissolution of marriage on the grounds
of desertion for three years without just cause
or excuse AND TAKE NOTICE that you are
required to enter an appearance to the said
suit at the proper office of this Honorable Court
on or before the Eleventh day of February One
thousand nine hundred and thirty-eight and in
the event of your not doing so within the. time
limited or obtaining further time the Petitioner
will proceed and the suit be determined your
absence notwithstanding. A copy of the
petition filed herein may be had on application
to the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this Seventeenth day of November,
1937.
(L.s.) E. F. LENNON,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
LIONEL DARE AND B. P. PURCELL,
Solicitors for the Petitioner, 11c Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF VICTORIA.
No. 550 1937.
TO WILLIAM GEORGE ANDERSON for-
merly of No. 30 King Street Balaclava in
the State of Victoria Collector but now of
whereabouts unknown.
TAKE NOTICE that your wife VIOLET
LYLA ANDERSON has instituted proceedings
against you for a divorce on the ground of
desertion for three years and upwards. Unless
you enter an appearance in the Prothonotary’s
Office of the Supreme Court in Melbourne in
the state of Victoria on or before the Fif-
teenth day of December 1937 and file an answer
on or before the Twenty-fifth day of December
1937 the case may proceed in your absence.
N. H. SONENBERG AND GOLDBERG,
of Temple Court, No. 447 Little Collins Street,
Melbourne, in the State of Victoria, Solicitors
for the Petitioner.
N THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1850 of 1937.
tETWEEN EVELYN ADELA BROWN Peti-
tioner „
And WILLIAM WALLACE BROWN Re-
spondent.
O WILLIAM WALLACE BROWN late of
Port Kembla. . TT , T
TAKE NOTICE that the said EVELYN
iDELA BROWN has commenced a suit against
ou in this Court and is applying for a dis-
olution of marriage on the grounds of deser-
ion for three years and upwards without just
ause or excuse AND TAKE NOTICE that
ou are required to enter an appearance to the
aid suit at the proper office of this Court on
r before the Tenth day of February One thou-
and nine hundred and thirty-eight and in the
vent of your not doing so within the time
united or obtaining further time the Petitioner
rill proceed and the suit be heard and deter-
mined your absence notwithstanding. A copy
if the petition filed herein may be had on
pplication to the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this Eleventh day of November One
tiousand nine hundred and thirty-seven.
By the Court,
For the Registrar,
(1.5.) W. BOOTH,
Clerk in Divorce.
R M EWING AND BADHAM, Solicitors
or the Petitioner, lie Castlereagh Street,
iydney.
THE LITTLE SISTERS.
WESTRALTA.
Devotees of the Royal and Ancient
forsook the fairways for the ballroom
when the Royal Perth Golf Club staged
!" B co°loS’ S;
Strang from the Rees transformed the
clubhouse into a fairy land. The new
full-skirted dirndle was the fashion high-
light Mrs. Jimmie Woods swirled
Wedgwood georgettes in hers, and Mrs.
Robin Leiper perched a topknot of field
flowers above her turquoise ninons cut
in the same fashion. An o.s. scarlet bow
ell from shoulder to hem of Mrs. Roy
Parsons’s black moires; the dub cap-
i diwiiJD ’ Rrnmihiirct
tain’s other half, Mrs. W. F. Broadhurst,
draped grape velvet in classic mode, and
hon. sec. Mrs. Evan Saw lacquer
spotted her bouffant black taffetas.
The Felicas Art of Speech Club fore-
gathered at the Adelphi in honor of
visiting elocutionary examiner Prof. J. J.
Stable. President Elsie McCallum thiew
a lei of flowers round the neck of her
trained burgundy cloque, and hon. sec.
Muriel Bird stood by in navy-spotted
mist-blue sheer. The programme given
by headliners of the local elocutionary
and musical fraternities evoked great
applause, and the guest of honor gave a
short history of the growth of sister
dramatic clubs throughout Australia.
“Something blue” was the recurring
motif at the wedding of the H. S. Bick-
fords’s younger daughter Mavis and
Andrew Johnston, of East Fremantle,
Archdeacon Parry forged the link at
Christ Church, Claremont. The shirred
and draped heavy white embossed taffeta
of the bridal raiment was followed by
delphinium-blue-clad ’maids, sister Gwen
and Helen Johnston, be-haloed with
leaves to match. Mrs. Bickford hostessed
toastings at the Myola Club in royal-
blue embroidered georgette, helped by
’groom’s mother, Mrs. Johnston, who
matched the cornflower-blue of her
crepe draperies with eye-veiled toque.
The Bruce Goyders chose the cocktail
hour for a combined welcome-home and
farewell party. The guests of honor were
the Norman Temperleys, who arrived in
the Orcades after Coronation junketings,
and Mr. and Mrs. John Pitt, who will
leave shortly for China and Japan. The
prune chiffon pleatings of the hostess
were backgrounded with masses of roses
a 'i™ n!lUons J(T, h “ love , ly K d , e h n ;
The James Mitchell lady unlocked he
lu- Ot C^ n CMLT g Hor AssS/m
™“°n!. o£ * he lat ? Mrs ' Muriel
Little Chenn.e Parkes granddaughter of
Mrs. Chase, presented a basket of del-
P h ™™s the acting-Governor s lady,
and following the official speeches, the
visitors had tea on the shady lawns
Karnnyup Country Club was en Me
on a m ° onll ‘ n ' B , ht Wl * h a dlnner dan ? e
and bndge for less strenuous souls in
the flower-decked lounges. A few of the
dinner hosts and hostesses were the A. B.
Rr „ ltrn „ v . r . nr „ nd Mr . Tirn Ainslie
rei 4 me J?- rs ViV and i S ‘ J !f\i n* 6 ’
“ £ arke couple and the Sun-
nm § slsters ’ tlora and Jan€ ‘
SOUTH AUSTRALIA,
Highlight of the Gilbert and Sullivan
Society’s social gathering was an excel-
j ent performance of the first act of “The
Gondoliers.” At supper afterwards the
president, Andrew D. Young, commented
U p Gn wealth of vocal talent brought
to jjgHt by C. J. Bradley, who is training
t he choruses for “The Vagabond King”
anc j made such a success of the musical
side of “Viktoria and Her Hussar.” Gil-
suihVan choruses were sung during
supper.
Clare has had a week of gaiety and
entertainment. Starting with an exhibi-
fion at the Town Hall under the aus-
pices of the C.W.A., the doings included
a cricket match, a race meeting and a
dance in the Town Hall,
The Uni. swimming clubs held their
combined annual dance in the refectory,
which was transformed into a South Sea
Island scene. Most of the men wore
flannels, but the girls were in full even-
ing dress.
Christ Church, North Adelaide* saw
the marriage of Robert, eldest son of
Mr. and Mrs. Ronald McEwin, of St.
Peters, to Marjorie, daughter of the E.
Milners, of North Adelaide. Ivory satin
cut on slim lines was the choice of the
bride. Flared at the hem, it merged into
a slight train. The long sleeves were
puffed at the shoulder, and the neckline
was cowl-shape. An old Brussels-lace
veil, lent by Mrs. Home Popham, was
held in place by a halo of orange-blos-
soms. Bridesmaids were bride’s sister
Kath and bridegroom’s sister Margaret,
frocked alike in pale-pink organdie, self-
patterned in floral design. Their wide-
brimmed Leghorn hats were trimmed
with pink ribbon, and they carried posies
of pink flowers. Little Pamela Clark,
who was flowergirl and carried the
bride’s train, was also in pink organdie,
with a wide satin sash to match and a
wreath of pink flowers.
F. A. Lakeman opened the Travellers’
Aid Society’s new headquarters in Ker-
mode-street, North Adelaide. Speeches
were also made by Mrs. Dudley Hay-
ward (president) and Miss Dixon
(matron). Afternoon-tea followed.
TASMANIA.
The Royal Australasian College of
Surgeons held a conference during a busy
week-end. Luncheons, dinners, cocktail
parties and so on filled all the off hours,
and the wind-up took the shape of a
visit to the H. C. Pennys’ at Bushy
Park, which showed the visitors what
Tassie can do in the way of spring ver-
dure and beauty.
To welcome Mrs. Thos. Lyons and
daughter Sybil home from their trip
abroad Mrs. Fenn Smith entertained
about 40 friends at the Queen Mary
Club. Mrs. Lyons, looking well after
her holiday, was in black, and her large
hat was decorated with an osprey plume.
Sybil’s black tailored suit went with an
oyster satin blouse and a smart black
hat. The hostess’s frock of dark navy
had a big splashing design in white, and
she wore a large hat.
The sudden burst of hot weather
Hobart has been experiencing was not
an unmixed good from the rosegrowers’
point of view, and the annual show in
the City Hall was rather disappointing.
The Governor and Lady Clark attended
the show.
Dr. Arundel Orchard wielded his con-
ductor’s baton at the Symphony orchestra
concert at the Town Hall. The pro-
gramme was a very interesting one.
Madame Helen George was solo pianist
in the Beethoven piano concerto. The
Governor and Lady Clark attended the
performance.
A cocktail party at Hadley’s was given
by her brother Charlie for Ciceley
Davies. Charlie went with his mother
and sister on part of their 16 months’
trip, but was obliged to return before
them. Small tables bore savories and
sandwiches and were decorated with
roses, and one end of the lounge was
cleared for dancing. Ciceley’s frock was
navy and white, worn with a large
Panama hat.
David Rivett, chief executive officer of
C. and 1.R., delivered the R. M. John-
son Memorial Lecture at the Royal
Society. There was a good roll-up of
members and guests and the Government
House party was present, his Ex. pre-
siding. The subject was “Wool,” much
to the point in this Commonwealth.
Functions to raise the wind for the
new general hospital are keeping social-
minded people busy, bridge-parties,
dances, fairs and other enterprises all
bringing in their bit. The sisters at the
hospital organised a big dance at the
Belvedere, Sisters I. Woodiwiss and F. L.
Barnett acting as joint hon. secs.
The Shakspeare Society, encouraged
by its last year’s success in “The Mer-
chant of Venice,” gave “Twelfth Night”
at the Theatre Royal, with Marcus
Gibson as Orsino, Freda Elliott as Viola,
Marion Connery as Olivia and Vernon
Lee as Malvolio. E. A. Stacey, who
played Sir Toby Belch, was producer.
Hobart Rep. Society, Ken Nicolson
producing, ran a three-nights season of
“Libel,” by Edward Wool, at the
Theatre Royal. The play is one which
has to depend on the acting, with little
help from accessories. Beattie Jordan,
Frank Purchas, Keith Jarvis, C.
O’Connor, W. E. Fuller, Gwen Cox and
D. W. Purvis bore the brunt of the play-
ing, with a big crowd of “extras” in the
Court scenes, and the effort was one of
the company’s most successful. Lady
Clark was present on the opening night,
and there were good houses throughout.
Marweet Courthope and Hubert Lewis
have announced their engagement. Mar-
weet (Marguerite) is the second of the
handsome bevy of Courthope girls.
Hubert is the second son of the late
Elliot Lewis and his lady.
The Lewis lady hostessed a cocktail
party at Hadley’s in honor of her future
daughter-in-law Marweet Courthope
and her son Hubert. About 35 guests
met to congratulate the young people.
Marweet’s frock of navy blue had a
design of white, red, green and yellow
on it and was made with short sleeves
and worn with a little navy hat.
Joan, daughter of P. M. and Mrs. Gil-
lies, Electrona, and George Hodson,
whose folk live at St. Helen’s, are
entrants for the matrimonial stakes.


Asciis
PLACE YOUR XMAS ORDER EARLY
Avoid the congestion that comes every December. No
better advice can be given. You may want to. buy
Christmas lines as utility presents or materials for neces-
sary improvements.
We offer:
“HIBISCUS” COLD SAFES: No ice required, no upkeep
costs. Small, Min. x Min. x 20in. £2/2/6; Medium,
18in. x 18in. x 28in., £3/5/-; Large, 28in. x 24in. x
32in., £4/15/-. For cash with order we allow a special
10 p.c. discount if ordered before December 25th.
TENTS AND TAR-
PAULINS: Our big
selling line the
Hibiscus Marquee
Tent, made with
waterproof BIRK-
MYRE top, calico
division sheet, and
complete with ropes,
poles and pegs.
ŀ
12ft. x 12ft.
15ft. x 13ft.
15ft. x 15ft.
Boz. Duck Walls.
... £lO/-/-
.. £l2/10/-
.. £l3/5/-
lOoz. Duck Walls.
£lO/15/-
£l3/10/-
£l4/-/-
DOVER STOVES: Special nett prices—No. 7 at 70/- and No. 8 at 80/- each. We
supply all makes of stoves and allow 10 p.c. discount off manufacturer’s list
prices; also do not charge extra for Sales Tax.
HARDWARE AND GARDEN TOOLS: Single items at wholesale prices. Blow
Lamps 16/6, 20/-, 25/- and 70/-. Atkins’s Belt Punches 2/3 each. Spoke-
shaves 1/6 and 2/3. German Jack Planes, l|in. 4/6, ljin. 4/9, 2in. 5/6.
Speedscrew Flooring Cramps 40/- each. Garden Hose from 54d. foot. Handy
D-shaped Sprinklers 1/9 and 2/- each. Plumb Squaring Axes, lOin. 23/-, llin.
25/-. Grain Scoops, No. 8 11/-, No. 10 12/6. Post-hole Shovels from 5/6 ea.
Dutch Hoes, 4in. 1/2, sin. 1/3, 6in. 1/4. Kelly and Plumb Axes from 5/3.
RIFLES: .22 cal., with safety catch: Single shot, bolt action. Takes .22 short or
.22 long cartridges. Pistol-grip stock, 24in. barrel. Special price 25/- each.
Postage 1/6 extra
PRIMUS STOVES: No. 1 Genuine, 12/6 each. Post free this month if cash accom-
panies order.
SADDLERY AND HARNESS: “Hibiscus” Plough Sets for 45/- and 50/-. Single-rim
Collars 19/6 each, Double-rim 24/-. Saddles from 85/-.
LAMPS: We are sole agents for the famous British “TILLEY” Kerosene Lamp, 300 c.p.
strong. Model EX4 can be used either as a table lamp, a hanging lamp or
an outdoor storm lantern. Price only 50/- each. Post free this month if
cash accompanies order.
LOWEST ALSO FOR: Bicvcles from £5/19/-; Camp Beds; Gramophones; Wireless Sets fwe
give 20 p.c. discount off most of the leading makes) ; Wire; Wire Netting and Fencing
Requisites; Gates; Troughing and Tank Materials; Furniture; Portable and Bush Showers;
Paints and Oils; Belting; Telephone Materials; Engines; Lighting Plant*; and our big line,
GROCERIES, etc.
WRITE FOR OUR BIG ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE.
IT WILL SAVE YOU POUNDS.
OUIKNSUND muuimiB
PTY. IID.
BOWEN ST (NEAR FIRE BRIGADE) BRISBAN E
The Long White Cloud
Maoriland’s Wheat Problem
The Maoriland wheat crop, the ex-
tent of which fluctuates in an unpredict-
able manner from season to season,
threatens this season to be more than
usually short of the country’s require-
ments. Only 180,000 acres have been
sown, as against 224,000 acres last season,
and it takes the product of about 400,000
acres to supply domestic milling and
fowl-feed requirements.
In wartime, when it seemed likely that
shipments would be hampered, the Maori-
land farmer was urged by every politi-
cian to grow wheat, promised a close
market and a handsome price. Under
this stimulus the acreage under wheat
rose from 167,000 acres in 1913-14 to
329,000 acres in 1915-16, but it then fell
back. In 1919-20 it was down to
140,000 acres. Moreover, the average
yield in wartime was only 24.49 bushels
per acre, as against over 30 bushels in
the four seasons immediately preceding
the war, an indication that only the pick
of the land will give the high yield the
M.L. farmer considers necessary to make
wheat-growing pay.
The Australian, on much cheaper land
(especially in Westralia), is content with
a much lower yield. He wants to grow
wheat; the Maorilander always has a
feeling he could do better with another
sort of crop.
Despite the fact that Maoriland’s crop
is only once in a blue moon equal to the
domestic demand, it has been protected
for a decade by a sliding-scale duty on
wheat and flour —Bd. a bushel on wheat
ss. a bushel at port of export, with a
id. added for every id. below ss. and
taken off for every id. above 55.; 325.
a ton on flour at £l3, with the slide
operating on every Is. variation of the
price. Even when, as in 1932-33, Maori-
land has a bumper crop and is able to
export there are still imports from Aus-
tralia, for most millers reckon that at
least a proportion of the harder Aus-
talian wheat is necessary to make a good
flour.
It seems time the Dominion tried an-
other sort of sliding scale, based on
home production, if she must still persist
in coaxing her farmers to grow wheat
against their inclination. The plain fact
seems to be that M.L. land is too dear
for profitable wheat-growing. Fifty years
ago the acreage under wheat was often
as high as 400,000. There’s only one
available reason for the dwindle.
“Windwhistle”: Guy Fawkes, that
thoroughgoing Parliamentary reformer,
is not forgotten in Maoriland. The kids
of Wellington (perhaps because that is
the town that harbors the Houses of Par-
liament) made the 1937 celebration
memorable. In every suburb and in the
busiest streets of the city gangs of small
boys with carefully-blackened faces
hauled billy-carts bearing fearsome straw-
stuffed images, and their shrill chanting
of “Pleaseter Remember Thefiftho-
november” winding up with “Apenny-
fortheguymister” prevailed over the
rattle of the trams and the howling of
the perennial gale. In the South Island
there used to be a tradition (probably
instilled by elders who had ulterior
motives) that Guy Fawkes Day ends at
noon. To be seen in company of a guy
in the afternoon in Christchurch or
Dunedin was as serious a breach of boy-
etiquette as flying a kite or playing tip-
cat when such pastimes were out of
season. Not so these lawless northerners.
They wound up a full day of treason-
denouncing with bonfires at night. As
the favorite fuel was old motor-car tyres
the stench was awful, but . it was a
glorious sight. As the “Dominion” elo-
quently put it: “Wellington was ringed
with fire.” The Fire Brigade knew all
about this ringing; it got plenty of it on
its telephones, and between 7 p.m. and
11 p.m. coped with 44 conflagrations—
mostly gorse fences, it’s true, but con-
stituting the busiest time the brass-
helmeted lads have had since Armistice
Night.
SjC * *
“Lex”: During almost the whole of
its 43 years of activity the Maoriland
Arbitration Court has been allowed to
interpret the Statutes under which it
operates without intervention by the
Court of Appeal. Recently, however, a
case in which the Arbitration Court made
an award covering clerks was taken to
the higher court, which, to the surprise
of most laymen, declared the award to
be bad on the ground that “an industry
is limited to a business or occupation
common to both employers and
workers.” In the case under review the
business of the employers was not clerk-
ing ; there isn’t any occupation in which
it is. That the decision was good in
general law was made apparent as soon
as the judgment on appeal was handed
down. The Employers’ Association had
taken opinion on the point long ago,
“You say you've forgotten! What sort of an elephant d'you call
yourself ?”
and the Department of Labor had been
advised to the same effect. That the
point was not taken advantage of by the
employers’ organisation was due, it may
be guessed, to a feeling that if it were
the Arbitration Act could easily be
amended to avoid the difficulty. And
that is what has happened.
“W.J.”: Maoriland proceedings in the
industrial case of the clerks recalls what
happened when the M.L. journalists
went for their first award. The em-
ployers argued that journalism was a
profession, not an industry. “The print-
ing of newspapers is an industrial opera-
tion,” said the President of the Court,
Chapman, J., and that was that.
* * * *
“Opawa”: Maoriland has had a
Workers’ Dwellings Act on its Statute
Book since 1905, and various administra-
tions have done their best to induce
wage-earners to let the State build them
cottages, to be paid for in weekly-instal-
ments-as-rent. But it was never a very-
popular scheme. The Savage Govern-
ment went into the house-providing busi-
ness in a big way. Building, like most
other trades, had languished during the
slump, and the need for housing was
demonstrable. But the scheme goes no
better now than it did in earlier years.
Despite heavy Governmental expenditure
the number of new houses going up each
year is dwindling. In the year before the
slump 7179 new dwellings went up ; in
1935-36 the tally was 4140, and for 1936-
37 it was 3325. One reason is that, what
with the 40-hour week, higher wages and
higher taxation, building costs have
soared. At the inception of the Savage
drive the idea was to build natty bunga-
lows at £6OO to £7OO, with repayments at
12s. 6d. to 17s. 6d. a week. In the first
year building costs rose from 12s. 6d. to
as much as 225. 6d. per sq. ft., and the
bungalows cost £l2OO to £l3OO, with
rents (the idea of selling the houses has
gone by the board) up to 325. 6d. a week.
Furthermore the Government’s entry into
the trade has driven out the small builder,
so there is not much competition on
tenders.
* * * *
“Kaiapoi”: A hundred years and a
few days ago the New Zealand Associa-
tion issued in London a booklet which
was a sort of prospectus intended to lure
the right sort of settlers to Maoriland.
Titled The British Colonisation of New
Zealand, it was the work of Edward
Gibbon Wakefield and John Ward, the
latter being the secretary of the asso-
ciation. The book is of interest, as it
contains the first printed exposition of
Wakefield’s colonisation theories, ex-
pounded at greater length later in his
Art of Colonisation. His main theory
was very simple. As he saw it, most ol
the troubles attendant on earlier colonis-
ing projects occurred because land was
too cheap. The “lower orders” could
afford it, and once they were in posses-
sion their betters could whistle for labor,
but none was forthcoming. To remedy
that disgraceful state of affairs, Wake-
field promulgated the doctrine of “the
sufficient price” —by which he meant an
arbitrary figure that should be just out
of reach of the hoi polloi. Whatever
the ethics of it, the system certainly
worked in Maoriland.
* * *
“Avon”: Up on the hills overlooking
the pancake-flat city of Christchurch
(M.L.) lives Churchill Julius, an arch-
bishop in retirement, erstwhile Primate.
Born in England, he has spent nearly
half of his 90 years in Christchurch, and
is as well-liked as when he first came
into that community. One of his sons
is Australia’s knight George Julius,
inventor of the totalisator. Strange for
a bishop’s*son? Not at all. The first
memorable thing Julius pere told his
Canterbury flock when he commenced to
wave a crook over them was that he
enjoyed his pipe and his glass of beer,
and that comfortable, tolerant atmos-
phere has pervaded his whole long pas-
torate. Furthermore, though a bishop
by ordination, Julius always manifested
a strong mechanical bent.
He had, and still has, a
well-equipped workshop.
His hobby was the making
and repairing of clocks
and the devising of time-
saving inventions, and he
still carries on this work.
He thinks this sort of thing
is good for a man, but
that “there is less necessity
for it now than in the
days when if one wanted
anything the least out of
the ordinary one had to
make it oneself.”
“Legis”: Writ-
ten legal decisions
are usually dry as
dust, but a Roto-
rua (M.L.) magis-
trate recently used
language in keep-
ing with the case.
An ex-grappler
attending a wrest-
ling match in a
temporary stand
slipped between
the seats on leav-
ing and sustained
injuries. He sued the Wrestling Associa-
tion,
alleging [said his Honor] that the seats
were not as safe as reasonable care and
skill could make them. The defendant
association, on the other hand, claims the
verdict for itself on the grounds that the
plaintiff, having secured his fall outside the
legal liability ring, should be disqualified
or, alternatively, it claims that in view
of the evidence it should be granted the
decision on points.
The plaintiff won.


Somebody's getting
a Better Radio notvl
Mallard
MASTER RADIO
PricvH front JC/279 'fi.
You can’t
ignore 6AM
It is the ONLY STATION
that can give you com-
plete coverage of Western
Australia.
The ONLY STATION that
will sell your goods to
the farmer.
6AM
Prince’s Chambers,
William Street,
Perth,
Western Australia.
"RADIO”
The world-wide technical
authority of amateur, short-
wave and experimental radio.
Subscriptions are 18/6 per year in
Australia, acceptable at “The Bulletin”
Office, 252 George Street, Sydney.
“Radio” is published monthly in Los
Angeles (U.S.A.) under date as of
the following month; 10 issues yearly,
including special annual number; the
August and September issues (which
would normally appear in July and
August) are omitted.
Copies are mailed to subscribers direct
from U.S.A.
Read “Radio” regularly and keep in
advance of the times.
“Radio” is the fastest selling of all
radio magazines—on the bookstall
to-day, sold out to-morrow.
Subscribe direct and be sure of
your copy!
CERAMIC COIL FORMS.
Ceramic grooved
and ribbed coil
forms, 2Ain. dia-
meter,' with a sin.
winding space.
Type TFX. List
price, 13/9. Call
in or write for full
particulars of the
RAYMART “Craft
A Creed” range.
ł
“The Friendly Wholesale House.
Telephone: 8W3109 (2 lines).
Telegrams: “Jonmar,” Sydney.
116-118 Clarence Street, Sydney.
RADIO NEWS
DON B. KNOCK'S PAGES.
Battery-operated Seven-valve Amateur Superhet.
The senior and junior amateur communication superhets introduced
recently by the A.W. Valve Co. have proved extremely popular. Some-
thing of a similar nature would be useful for application where battery
power only is available. After careful laboratory tests this Radiotron
design for the outback amateur has given outstanding performance.
It is not easy to cater for the require-
ments of the modern amateur station
when it comes to designing a superhet
taking power from only a two-volt accu-
mulator and 135 volts of B battery.
Engineers at the Australian Radiotron
Front view of the seven-valve battery superhet for amateur communi-
cation, as designed by A.W. Valve Co.’s engineers.
factory worked for months on this re-
ceiver before they were satisfied and
handed it over to the writer for test.
The details are given for the benefit of
Bulletin readers by courtesy of A.W.
Valve Co.
The Circuit.
Examination of the circuit will show
at a glance that there is nothing for-
midable about the job.
There are seven two-volt battery valves,
the R.F. stage a IC4, followed by a
IC6 mixer. The intermediate amplifier,
at 465 kc., is a IC4, used in conjunction
with iron-core I.F. transformers. Second
detector is a IK4, and audio pentode a
ID4. Two additional valves are used,
both type 30’s. The first is a high-fre-
quency oscillator for 10 and 20 metres
and the second a beat oscillator for
C.W. reception.
For those who may wish to use them
throughout, the new “G” series of Radio-
trons may replace those specified in the
diagram—R.F. IMSG, mixer IC7G, I.F.
IMSG, second detector IKSG, audio pen-
tode ILSG. The 30’s would be replaced
by types lH4G’s.
It is rather unusual that a receiver of
this kind with a single I.F. stage should
give such a high gain, but close exam-
ination shows that precautions have been
taken which will give a high overall gain
together with extremely sharp selectivity.
Filament circuit regeneration is used
on the R.F. stage, and is controlled by
means of a screen potentiometer. A
choke is used in one leg of the filament,
the other end of the filament being re-
turned to earth through the tapping on
the grid coil. By careful adjustment of
this regeneration control it has been
possible to obtain gains between the
aerial and grid of the IC6 of 125 times
on 80 metres, 96 times on 40 metres and
80 times on 20 metres. Full regenera-
tion is not possible on 10 metres, but in
use this is no serious handicap.
The IC6 (or IC7G) converter is
operated under standard conditions as
recommended for short-wave use, but on
the 20- and 10-metre bands an additional
oscillator, 30 (or IH4G) is connected in
parallel with the oscillator section. This
does not affect the operation of the con-
verter except that it increases the inten-
sity of the oscillations in the oscillator
section.
Iron-core I.F. Transformers.
Increased gain and selectivity are ob-
tained by the use of iron-core I.F.Ts. In
most conventional broadcast receivers
The B.F.O. is in the screened compartment in the centre.
the secondary of the I.F. transformer is
seriously loaded by the diode current,
and gain and selectivity suffer in conse-
quence. Anode bend detection is used
in this circuit, with the result that a high
input impedance is obtained in the second
detector; and the very good sensitivity
figure of 29kc. band-width (for the I.F.
channel alone) at 1000 times is possible.
This selectivity is assisted by the very
high plate resistance of the IC4.
No A.V.C. is used in this circuit, since
it would not be practicable without in-
creasing the damping on the second I.F.
transformer, and thereby impairing all-
round performance. In the screen of
the I.F. valve a gain control is used, and
this should be operated intelligently in
conjunction with the control of the R.F.
and audio stages. It is desirable to use
the maximum convenient setting on the
R.F. stage and to reduce gain on the
I.F. and audio controls, except for very
weak signals. Decoupling resistors and
Showing the position of the band-setter controls. The three smaller
coils are for 10 metres.
condensers are used in the plate-supply
circuits of the converter and I.F. stages.
Second Detector and 8.F.0.
The IK4 (or IKSG) second detector
operates at a negative bias of 1.5 volts
and a screen voltage of 45. To prevent
R.F. getting into the audio output stage
an R.F. choke is used, with a suitable
by-pass condenser. Avery small grid
coupling condenser (.00025 mfd.) is used
to reduce bass response and assist C.W.
reception. This is switched in at the bass
end of the tone control.
The tone control to cut off the higher
audio frequencies assists materially in
aiding C.W. reception. In the grid cir-
cuit of the ID4 (or ILSG) valve is an
audio volume control.
Although in the illustrations of the re-
ceiver the permag midget speaker is
fitted to the front panel, it can be
mounted away from the chassis if micro-
phonic effects are pronounced. Usually,
however, this can be overcome by a
sponge-rubber mounting and the use of
sturdy tuning condensers.
Provision is made in the original re-
ceiver for another speaker or a pair of
headphones to be plugged in if desired.
The beat frequency oscillator is con-
nected to the grid of the second detector
through a very small capacity—only
smmfd. This is best provided for by
twisting short lengths of insulated wiring
flex together. The coils in the 8.F.0.
may be made from a standard air core
465 kc. I.F. transformer.
The trimming condenser across the
primary should be removed and an addi-
tional condenser, Cl, connected in
parallel across the secondary. This con-
denser forms a pitch control, and should
therefore be readily accessible on the
front panel. In the filament circuit of
the 8.F.0. is a switch to turn off the os-
cillator when it is not wanted.
Current Drain.
With gain controls at maximum the
total current drain is:
IC4 R.F 3.oma.
IC6 converter 4.Bma.
30 H.F. osc l.Oma.
IC4 I.F 2.5 ma.
IKS second det o.2ma.
30 8.F.0 o.sma.
ID4 output 7.5 ma.
19.5 ma.
This is a very economical consumption
for seven valves, and of course, in prac-
tice this current dram will hardly ever
be reached, as it occurs only when all
volume controls are at maximum and
with extra H.F. and B.F. oscillators in
use.
Construction.
The method of construction may be
seen readily from the illustrations. The
three-band tuning condensers are ganged
and operated from the vernier dial on
the panel. The band-setting condensers
are arranged underneath the chassis below
the individual sections and with con-
trols projecting at the left side of the
chassis. Once these are adjusted for
the band in use they are not touched
again.
Care has been taken with mechanical
strength and rigidity, and components
have been arranged for the shortest pos-
sible wiring, especially in the tuned
circuits. Attention to these details en-
sures excellent results.
It was found that there is a slight ten-
dency to interlocking on 10 metres, but
this is not particularly noticeable once
the band-setting condensers have been
adjusted. Tracking is satisfactory over


eoV rA RM ,OB
£beawb
EASIER* « w
14-26 H.P. (Tests by Mr. E. J. C. Rennie, M elb. Univ.)
The Host Economical Power You Can Buy
Fordson has every quality you
require: Ample power; Sim-
ple, sturdy design; Economy
in purchase price and economy
in operation. For field, belt-
work and haulage the all-pur -
pose Fordson is fast, economi-
cal and easy to operate. In
all parts of Australia 13,000
owners have proved that the
English Fordson is a thor-
oughly sound investment.
Your local Fordson Dealer will
give you a working demonstra-
tion on your own property.
The Fordson finance plan pro-
vides easy purchase terms.
FORDSON FEATURES:
HEAVY-DUTY TRANSMISSION
“HOT-SPOT” FUEL VAPORISER
GOVERNOR CONTROL
OPTIONAL SPEEDS
OPTIONAL GEAR RATIOS
STATICALLY AND DYNAMICALLY
BALANCED CRANKSHAFT
EXHAUST VALVE INSERTS
BOSCH MAGNETO IMPULSE
STARTER
REAR END POWER TAKE-OFF
(optional at extra cost)
The English
FwdisMi
TRACTOR
DISTRIBUTORS:
New South Wales:
MOTOR TRACTORS
LTD., Corner Bridge and
Young Streets, Sydney
Queensland:
BUZACOTTS (QUEENSLAND)
LIMITED
443 Adelaide Street, Brisbane
Victoria, Riverina & Tas.:
MALCOLM MOORE
LTD.. City Showrooms:
601-3 Lt. Collins St., Melb.
South Australia: Western Australia .
POWER PLANT LTD., 98-100 Currie LYNAS MOTORS LTD., Hay Street,
Street, Adelaide >ert^l
FORD MOTOR COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA
pty. ltd, (incorporated in_victoria)_
F207.18T
the whole band, which is all that the
amateur needs.
Coil Details.
The coils are wound on l|in. plug-in
formers for 80, 40 and 20 metres, and on
lin. diameter formers for 10 metres.
Details are given: —
Aerial R.F. —Oscillator—-
Band LI. L 2. Tap. L 3. L 4. L 5. L 6.
80m. 9 (a) 33 (b) 1 (f) 25 (a) 33 (b) 10 (a) 36 (b)
40m 51(a) 151(c) |(f) 11(a) 15(c) s(a) 151(c)
20m 21(a) 51(d) i 41(a) s«d) 4(a) s(d)
10m 7 (a) 8 (e) H(f) 7 (a) 8 (e) 41(a) 6 (e)
(a) 30 S.W.G. D.S.C. wire, interwound in secondary, starting from bottom.
(b) 28 S.W.G. enam. wire, wound 32 T.P.I. on liin. former.
(c) 20 S.W.G. tinned copper wire, wound 10 T.P.I. on lfin. former.
(and) 18 S.W.G. tinned copper wire, wound 6 T.P.I. on lfin. former.
(e) 20 S.W.G. tinned copper wire, wound 10 T.P.I. on |in. former.
(f) Tap on secondary, counted from bottom.
The band-setters in the original are
Formo .00016mfd., with Eddystone
35mmfd. types for tuning. The receiver
is designed for amateur band coverage
only, and is not intended for general
short-wave coverage.
D.B.K.
Amateur Chatter.
With the National Field Day (the first
Sunday in December) in the offing, great
activity in the building of portable
stations is reported. Generators and
spare six-volt accumulators are at a
premium. There are some ideal N.F.D.
locations in N.S.W., and some good
work should be done. These parties will
be in the field in N.S.W.; VK2RA, Mt.
Tomah ; • VK2KS, Sublime Point;
VK2MR, Blackheath ; VK2ZB, Galston ;
VK2LR, Macquarie Fields ; VK2AHB,
Bulli Pass ; VK2HZ, Elanora Heights ;
VK2TI, Kurrajong; VK2ABL, Villa-
wood ; VK2PN, Wyangala. The 80-, 40-,
20- and, in some cases, 10-metre bands
will be used. The parties will be camped
at each location on the previous evening,
and, with several operators to some of
the stations, it is anticipated that DX
countries will find VKs rolling in over-
seas at unusual hours. Free from elec-
trical and other noise, one can hear and
work a lot more stations in bush loca-
tions than in a suburb.
On the night of 11/11 / ’37 an unex-
pected station appeared in Sydney on
five metres. This was VK2QF, located
at Newport (N.S.W.). There is no visible
range from the writer’s location, yet with
the twin-dipole beam trained in that
direction VK2QF could be heard on
’phone at Q 4 R 4, and reported VK2NO
Q 5 RB.
Haswell Turner, ex-A2TM, of Mos-
man (N.S.W.), returned to the fold after
an absence of 10 years, is keenly inter-
ested in five-metre possibilities, and is
at present awaiting his new callsign.
At Gordon (N.S.W.) VK2EM is in
action on five metres with a temporary
unity-coupled oscillator with 89’s, pend-
ing the construction of a new M.O.P.A.
with 808 final, and is using a twin dipole
with Q bars exactly like the one at
VK2NO. Very good results are ob-
tained in QSOs in all directions.
VK2AZ at Kogarah (N.S.W.) is back
on the band with crystal control, but is
using his low-frequency Zepp aerial tem-
porarily. Even so, his ’phone is a joy
to listen to. He doubles from ten to five
in his P.A., which is a Taylor T 55.
VK2DP, of Hurlstone Park (N.S.W.),
now has a strong signal to the coast. He
reports hearing an 1-C.W. signal just out-
side the high-frequency end of the five-
metre band signing ZLP at R3/4, prob-
ably a harmonic from a ZL commercial
station.
Although the week-end of 13-
14/11/’37 was hot and humid, no DX
was noted at VK2NO, but much calling
w'as done in various directions. Watch
was kept for signals from ON4AU, and
a schedule was run with VK3ML with-
out result. But there is every indication
that the band is open. If only there were
stations in action at some distant points,
it seems certain that signals would break
through. The 10-metre band is wider
open than ever before, and five metres
must surely benefit by the prevailing con-
ditions. One great trouble in a crowded
district is the question of harmonics.
Some of the fourth harmonics from 20-
metre ’phone stations, especially those
using vertical radiators, are at full
strength. As the ultra-shorts become
more populated, it will be necessary to
suppress effectively such harmonic radia-
tion.
In the search for better receivers on
five metres the utility of the superhei
converter should not be overlooked.
VK2AZ is using such a scheme, compris-
ing a T.R.F. stage using a 58, 57 detector
and 56 oscillator. This unit, tuning at
five metres, is coupled through a 1600 kc.
I.F. channel to an old T.R.F.-type broad-
cast receiver tuned to this frequency,
just outside the high-frequency limit of
the broadcast band. He obtains excel-
lent reception, and is now fitting a beat
oscillator at 1600 kc. to the broadcast
receiver to take care of C.W. reception.
This converter will be described in detail
shortly.
At the meeting of the N.S.W. Division
of the W.I.A. on 18/11/’37, a lecture,
“Radio Inductive Interference,” was de-
livered by H. K. Burbury, of the R.l.’s
staff. The lecturer dealt comprehensively
with the sources, causes and cures of
interference to broadcast, short-wave
and amateur reception.
The following is the result of nego-
tiations between the W.I.A. and the
P.M.G.:
(1) The maximum power which may be used
without a permit will be increased to 50
watts.
(2) Applications for permission to use power in
excess of 50 watts from members of the in-
stitute may be submitted through the W.I.A.
The senior radio inspector to the vigilance
committee for investigation and recommenda-
tion may pass them.
(3) The opinion is held that the expression
“obsolete receiver” is difficult to define, and
that keying methods have been developed to
an extent which will allow transmissions
without interference to the reception of pro-
grammes by broadcast listeners. In the case
of telephony, if Governmental requirements
concerning power limitations are observed,
there appears no reason why interference
caused by such transmissions cannot be
eliminated. Where it is established that a
broadcast listener will not co-operate, the
department will consider the removal of the
restriction placed on experimental transmis-
sions.
(4) There is no objection to 24-hour operation
under high-power permits. If interference
is caused, however, it will be necessary to
restrict transmissions to non-broadcasting
hours.
(5) Applicants for high-power permits shall be
re-examined in sending and receiving Morse
at a speed of 12 words per minute. There
is a growing tendency towards the use of
telephony exclusively, and the department
desires that licensees shall retain their tele-
graphic qualifications. If a licensee con-
fines his activities to telephony transmissions
he will probably not pass the test. On the
other hand, if he has maintained telegraphic
transmissions, there should be no reason for
his failing. High-power permits are issued
for C.W. transmissions only.
Some time may elapse before the above
decisions are gazetted, and therefore they
must not yet be regarded as “officially
in force.” ,
Visitors at present in Sydney are Tom
Danks ZL3BK, and Harold Hobler
VK4DO. The former intends settling in
VK, and the latter is on holiday—away
from radio.
VK2NO.
Radio Comment.
“D.8.K.”: The all-wave receiver was
tuned to Daven-
try on the 13-
metre transmis-
sion at 9 p.m,
Sydney time on
11/11/ ”37. Recep-
tion of the cere-
mony at, White-
hall Cenotaph at
London’s 11 a.m.
was strikingly
clear, and one
sensed the im-
pressiveness of the
scene behind the
comm entator’s
quietly - spoken
words. Silence
settled as King,
statesmen and
people bowed
their heads and
r e m e m b ered.
Then the micro-
phones caught up
the cries of the
man who next morning’s papers men-
tioned had broken through the lines. It
was an unrehearsed incident for the
8.8. C., but the Daventry transmitters
carried it clearly by short waves to all
corners of the globe
“R.H.A.”: The so called “multifila-
mentary cathode” used in some modern
valve types (notably the 2A3) possesses
some unusual features. Although the
filament is in one continuous length it is
so connected within the envelope that
two or more sections of the heater are
actually in parallel. An English-type
power-valve I had employing this filament
construction went on working at only
slightly-reduced efficiency when a break
occurred in one of the sections. On a
tester the valve showed only 10 p.c.
departure from normal. With the old-
style filament one small break is enough
to put the valve out of commission.
* * * *
“Querex”: The new arrangement just
completed for the Philips short-wave
broadcaster PCJ has the two 165 ft.
towers on a gigantic turntable so that
the full benefit of antenna directivity can
be projected instantly to any part of the
world. An electric*drive takes the whole
outfit round to any position, and at
various points around the circumference
of the track are indicators marked
“Australia,” “Java,” etc. Now perhaps
some ham will mount his whole sta-
tion on a loco turntable.
The Question Box.
Full name and address must accompany all
queries; and write legibly to avoid con-
fusion in addresses. Queries are dealt with
by post where the matter may be urgent,
otherwise answers will appear in this column.
Three or four years ago I saw a textbook,
published in U.S.A., dealing with amateur radio
apparatus design and operating practice. It
sold at about Is. 6 d. Do you know it, and is
it still available? —614.
Most likely the Radio Amateur’s Handbook,
published annually by the American Radio
Relay League. It can be had from Angus and
Robertson, Sydney; 7s. 6d. Another very good
book on similar lines is Jones Radio Handbook.
* * * *
Where can I obtain a chart showing the wave-
lengths of the various world stations, with de-
tails of transmissions? —615.
Philips Radio, Sydney, will supply one on
application.


VITA- LICK
MINERALISED SALT
FODDER FOR SHEEP.
Mr. G. L. Burgess, Molong, writes,
301101’37 : —
“I was hand-feeding 400 ewes
with chaff and giving them plenty
of salt. They were not' doing as well
as I expected; the lambs were very
backward and I was losing more
than usual. I bought two bags of
your Vita-Lick Mineralised Fodder
to try it, and the change was re-
markable. They took to it readily
and from then on I had very little
trouble; the ewes gave more milk,
the lambs soon picked up, and at
two weeks old they were nibbling
at the fodder.”
PROFITS IN PIG-RAISING.
“Tri-cal”: Those points about profits
in pig-raising all depend on balanced
rations ; of course, I know that pigs must
be fed properly, and I can tell you that
I’ve been getting large and healthy litters,
and losses before weaning have been re-
duced to a minimum since I paid more
attention to the mineral part of the ration.
To make a long story short, my pigs are
now profitable. I don’t believe in keeping
good things to myself; I’m feeding Tri-
cal-os Bone Flour—told you about it be-
fore. Write to Davis Gelatine (Aust.)
Pty., Ltd., Sydney. They’ll send a folder
telling all about Tri-cal-os for pigs.
Old Farmer.
r ;
y
sss
For Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids
SOLD EVERYWHERE
H. A. ROSE & CO. LTD- King St„ Sydney
THE
lIMITCn iNSURAN CE
Ulil I CU company ltd.
ESTABLISHED 1862.
Head Office:
GEORGE S HUNTER STREETS. SYDNEY.
CAPITAL - - £1,000,000
All classes of Fire, Marine and
Accident Insurances effected at
Lowest Current Rates.
The “United” is an Australian Institution.
A. C. DAWSON, T. C. REYNOLDS,
Gen. Manager. Asst. Gen. Manager.
THE MAN ON THE LAND
Ewes or Wethers.
“Bungaree”: The question whether it
would pay better to breed lambs than
to run wethers only (B. 3/11/ ’37) must
be answered by each individual owner
on the merits of his particular district.
Admittedly wethers are run on much
country that could be used for breeding.
Pasture improvement and control of
parasites have made thousands of acres
of purely grazing country safe for breed-
ing. But at the same time many gra-
ziers are trying to breed lambs on
country that is quite unsuitable.
In most parts of New England the
cold, vigorous climate and the prevalence
of sheep parasites affect the lamb before
birth and take a heavy toll of the drop.
The average hogget there is no bigger
than a three-months-old lamb of the
slopes or plains and cuts about an equal
weight of wool. -Lambing percentages
are not high, but the mortality between
weaning and the first shearing certainly
is.
New England-bred ewes cut about 61b.
of fine to superfine quality wool, but of
recent years the prices obtained for this
type cannot be compared with returns
from plains-bred wethers imported to the
district.
Owing to the earlier shearing where
these latter are bred, they may carry
13-15 months’ wool when shorn on the
tablelands. They will cut 91b.-141b. —
bright, usually free, with the clean tip,
soft-handling and high-yielding qualities
for which N. Eng. is noted, plus the
extra length of staple which buyers want.
A length of 4yin.-sin., which would once
have been regarded as too overgrown for
ordinary use is now in demand.
' Provided wethers have at least two
teeth up before being introduced to the
tabelands, they thrive and need little
of the attention demanded by breeding
ewes. The wool is much finer in the cold
climate and on the sparser grasses. The
return per acre under wethers is naturally
dependent on the price paid for the
sheep, but in recent years it has proved
more economical to buy than to breed
Reclassing.
“Murrawong”: The remarks of
“C.V.S.” (B. 3/11/ ’37) on reclassing of
mixed bales and small lots by brokers
may hold good in Victoria, but in N.S.W.
brokers, with one exception, confine their
activities to storing and selling the clip.
Reclassing and pooling in N.S.W. is
carried on by independent firms at a
small charge per pound of wool handled,
and the popularity of the service is in-
creasing yearly. To eliminate the costs
of showing and cataloguing the small
parcels of wool marketed in bags some
brokers advise their clients to forward
all such lots to a reliable firm for pool-
ing. The wool is then included in large
even lots offered under an established
brand.
The uncertainty of the present wool
market is keeping repackers from operat-
ing, and sellers of mixed bales, bags,
butts, badly-prepared clips and even star
lots are feeling the pinch. Every wool-
sale report this season has emphasised
the fact that any upward trend in prices
has been for well-grown, well-prepared
lines.
Woolgrowers everywhere should take
advantage of reclassing and pooling sys-
terns in order to get full market rates
for small or mixed lots.
Advantage of Classing.
“C.V.S.”: The advantage of good
classing is obvious this season. At
present the market is patchy, and buyers
are showing little interest in irregular lots.
Where possible, all burr should be
skirted from fleeces, particularly with
lambs’ wool. Well-grown free lambs’
wool is finding a ready market, the top
line often equalling the top fleece line in
merino clips.
Good style crossbred has shown a slight
decline at recent sales, but it is still rela-
tively the dearest wool on the market,
though fine super style merino has moved
"P'raps Wed better push on after this hole.”
up. Medium quality and good to aver-
age type merino remain disappointingly
low.
Crossbred Wools.
“Sheepo”: Inferior types of cross-
bred wools appearing on brokers’ show
floors are reflected in the low prices
operating for a big proportion of these
wools. Since the fat-lamb industry en-
ticed many more growers to come into
the business, the increase in nondescript
crossbred ewes has added greatly to the
quantity of inferior wools.
There are too many English breeds in
the country, and too many impure rams
are used. In some cases fat-lamb
breeders may be unfortunate in buying
rams claimed to be pure, but others have
themselves to blame. It may be difficult
to secure an even line of first-cross ewes,
but there’s no excuse for the use of
mongrel rams.
Registration of rams should be com-
pulsory.
Calves.
“Hortus”: Allow heifer calves to suck
the mother for a couple of days, then
put them on the bucket.
Give whole milk —a gallon per calf
twice a day for the first three weeks,
gradually replacing it with separated milk.
When calves are about a month old
they should be getting l£gal. of separated
milk only twice daily.
Get the calves out in the open as soon
as possible. When they are a fortnight
old turn them into a small paddock.
Fresh air and sunlight, together with free
range, work wonders. The youngsters
begin to pick the grass much earlier.
And a little green grass is good medicine.
Wean at six months and put into larger
paddocks.
Are Bull Indexes Useful?
“Silky-Bag”: To mymind“Aerogenes’s”
bull-index scheme (B. 3/11/’37) fails for
the same reason as all others —the diffi-
culty of assessing the relative conditions
under which a dam and her daughters
make their records.
Suppose a man has cows, which give
him a 3001 b. butterfat average. He goes in
for pasture improvement and at the
same time buys a bull out of a 6001 b.
fat cow. This animal’s heifers now
come in, give 2501 b. fat on their first
calves and build up to 4501 b. as matrons.
How much of the increase is due to the
bull, and how much to the better feed
and management?
The original cows may have produced
4501 b. of fat under similar conditions.
It is impossible to say.
A bull index is far from infallible,
unless some method compensating for
the varying conditions of production can
be devised. The breeder alone knows
what job his bull is doing. If he cannot
work that out he should not be a dairy-
man.
Registered Cattle at Shows.
“Stump Jump”: There is another
reason why only pure and registered
cattle should be admitted at country
shows (B. 3/11 /’37).
We had a grade Jersey cow that took
a Reserve ribbon to one of our own
pure-bred animals, which was champion.
She bred true, was a fine animal with a
splendid vessel and produced heavily
over many years, but her progeny were
still grades, and we did not sell bulls
from her because they were not regis-
tered.
Beyond the satisfaction we had in
knowing we were breeding along the
right type lines, we gained nothing by
her ribbons.
Dairying in N.Q.
“Walliew”: “Marsh’s” arguments (B.
3/11/ ’37) do not convince me that dairy-
ing is not possible in the N.Q. coastal
belt between Mackay and the Tableland.
There is only one section where irri-
gation of sugar-cane is essential —the
Lower Burdekin. North of this area, the
rainfall is fairly high and reliable. Also,
although the natural grasses may be not
so good in the main, if proper attention
is given to improved pastures and rota-
tional grazing the industry should de-
velop. The coastal soil will grow any
pasture or fodder.
I have seen some splendid herds at
Ingham. There is a pasteurising plant
and butter factory there, which augurs
well for the future.
“M.” is right to the extent that there
are thousands of acres idle. I’m willing to
bet they’ll be taken up in the near future
as mixed farms. What is needed is a
sound Governmental policy to ensure
that the whole affair does not peter out.
Wheat in N. S. Wales.
“Nabawa”: A week spent examining
crops from Pallamallawa to Narrabri,
Gunnedab to Myall Creek and Inverell
—it rained every day—showed that the


THE
3 to 31-Ton Model D-40
s
OM*
i
W
:—:~i_
M
pM
Sectional view of the powerful Model D-40 engine,
heavy-duty clutch, and helical spur gear transmission.
Fourth speed is direct, fifth is overdrive. The overdrive
speed gives high road speed with reduced engine speed,
saving fuel and reducing engine wear.
HERE is a new all-truck International that asks for rugged
haulage work and plenty of it for years on end . . . D4O
will give you all the speed you want on the highway, wonderful
manoeuvrability in alleys and loading docks and through thick
traffic . . . easy steering at all speeds . . . vast reserve power to
climb out of steep places like quarries and excavations with massive
loads . . . D-40’s power plant gives a new standard of efficiency
and fuel economy. ... Available in a variety of body types styled
for utility and prestige.
In the new International line there’s a truck of size and type for
every truck user. If you are iil the city, call and see us; if in the
country, the local International agent will give you full information.
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER COMPANY
OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
UNCORPORATED IN VICTORIA!
BRISBANE SYDNEY MELBOURNE ADELAIDE PERTH
ROBT. NETTLEFOLD PTY. LTD., HOBART, AGENTS FOR TASMANIA.
mm
•• \\
L7OB
International 3 to 3 Vi'ton Model D-40
with special panel-stake body.
''Some D-40 Features:
■ ■■■■■■—, .
REPLACEABLE CYLINDERS
REPLACEABLE-SHELL MAIN AND
CONNECTING-ROD BEARINGS
FULL-PRESSURE LUBRICATION,
FLOATING-TYPE OIL-PUMP INTAK
CRANKSHAFT TORSIONAL
VIBRATION DAMPER
DOWN-DRAUGHT CARBURETION
LARGE OIL-BATH TYPE AIR
CLEANER
BELT-DRIVEN AIR-COOLED
GENERATOR
HARDENED EXHAUST-VALVE
SEAT INSERTS
HYDRAULIC BRAKES WITH
VACUUM BOOSTER
D'4O’s new
Cam-and-
Uvindever
steering gear
gives easy
handling with
safety at all
north-west is facing a harvest well below
normai
Crons were sown under erratic condi-
tions. The majority suffered a dry grow-
ins oeriod and the October rain was
toS late for’all except those on the eastern
fringe of the area. Harvesting has
begun at Pallamallawa and is fairly
general except about Inverell where
manv crons won’t be ready until Christ-
mas y F
Ford became popular owing to its re-
sistance to rust and high yield, and it
stood up to the weather as well as any-
thing else where given a good chance,
Geeralying proved its value as a quick
maturer when sown late. S.H.J. provided
the best crops in Boggabri district. Ben-
cubbin did well, as did Baringa.
Fifteen leading crops were inspected,
their average estimated yield over 34
bushels to the acre.
About Wee Waa, growers suffered
most from the dry winter, many crops •
failing altogether
Judged on R.A.S. standards, Waddell
Bros., Oakwood Inverell had the cham-
pion crop—Ford. Geeralying grown by
Clift and Scott at Breeza was second, and
McGowan’s Ford at Tangaratta was
third.
Waddell Bros, are finding that as the
heavy black ground bears successive
crops on short fallows the wheat gets
taller and stools ever less. To keep
the height down and make the plant
stool they have resorted to very heavy
seeding; up to 851 b. an acre,
Much was heard of grasshoppers, but
few were seen, and it appears that the
present plague is not a patch on that of
1934. All favored bran bait for large
swarms and flame-throwers for small,
just-hatched hoppers, But a geneial
complaint was that supervision was poor,
and that the’hoppers would not be wiped
out until some single authority had powei
to enforce approved methods on every
affected acre, private or Crown,
The November rain was a godsend to
denuded pastures, though it checked har-
vesting a little.
Iron and Pineapples.
“Woombye”: The best indication that
pines are short of iron is leaf color.
Sometimes shortage of nitrogen tends to
turn plants a pale yellow, but mineral
deficiency is more often the reason.
An iron-sulphate spray is needed —
about |lb. sulphate of iron crystals to
the gallon of water for young and deli-
cate plants ; for older plants to the
gallon. Watch for signs of burning on
the plants ; if that occurs, the spray is
too strong.
Spraying should be done with a fine-
rose nozzle at the rate of not more than
25 gallons to the acre. A knapsack
sprayer is quite large enough, and the
nozzle should be held perpendicularly
above the plants and about 3ft. from
the ground. A good man should be able
to treat an acre in two hours. Spraying
should be done in mid-morning, when
the dew is off, and never when there is
rain about.
The Queensland Agricultural Depart-
ment places the cost per annum for
monthly treatments at about Is. per
1000 plants, plus labor charges.
Elephant Grass.
“Sandpatch”: Elephant grass (B.
3/11/’37) certainly deserves a wider
popularity. It will grow from cuttings
as well as roots, and it will strike at any
time of the year.
Of 80 cuttings planted on a Clarence
(N.S.W.) farm last June, on a hardwood
ridge, 64 are growing, in spite of the fact
that no rain fell from planting until the
end of September, and that there was
a succession of heavy frosts.
However, spring planting in showery
weather is the best.
Experiments on the Clarence have
proved that loz. of super, per cutting on
very poor soils easily quadruples the
growth. The grass is very much better
cut and fed than grazed, the resultant
growth being considerably more vigorous.
(l Continued on next page.)


Give Him SANDALS for Christmas
What better gift could a man receive this
Christmas than a pair of Sports Sandals?
Comfortable, cool and smart, with strong,
long-wearing soles and uppers, their use-
fulness will be appreciated as much as
their appearance. Give ABBEY SPORTS
SANDALS and be sure of pleasing him.
3B —Orthopaedic Saridal, made in high-
grade Brown Calf and White Nubuck,
leather sole and heel. Made in full
and half-sizes.
Price 15/11.
IB
IB—Made in Brown Calf with leather
soles and heels, and held by Elastic
Strap, which gives ease and comfort.
Full sizes.
Price 9/11.
Write for a Catalogue of our latest
styles—Post Free all over Australia.
~ i
K
V.
5B
5B —Brown Ankle-strap Orthopaedic
Sandal, strong leather sole and heel.
Made in full and half-sizes.
Price 15/11.
4B
4B —Super Black Calf-skin Orthopaedic
Sandal, leather sole and heel. A par-
ticularly strong Sandal, made in full
and half-sizes.
Price 15/11.
“If it’s an Abbey Shoe it’s a good Shoe. :
ABBEY SHOES
316 George Street, 224 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
Telegraphic Address: “ABBEY BOOTS, SYDNEY.”
ESTABLISHED 1834.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4,300,000 0 0
(Used wholly in the business)
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
Directors:
James Ashton (Chairman), Edward R. Knox, Owen E. Friend,
Sir Wm. Vicars, C.8.E., Orwell Phillips.
General Manager: C. Darvall.
HEAD OFFICE: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout:
New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland. South Australia,
and at Canberra, Federal Territory.
Agents throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
Australia 9 s Leading Financial Journal .
NOVEMBER ISSUE NOW ON SALE.
War Finance—Japan and China
Company Accounts Analysed
What to Buy and Sell
Gold - - - Tin - - - Lead - - - Zinc
PRICE 2/ - PER COPY, OR £l/216 PER ANNUM POSTED.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd., 252 George Street, Sydney, and all States.
77uT$tztH£&/rL
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
Better results will be obtained if the cut-
tings or roots are spaced at least 6ft. apart,
and it pays to keep the ground worked.
Cut before the canes form, cattle relish
it, and few fodders provide a greater
abundance of feed for close on nine
months of the year.
To get the best results, it must be kept
to a height of no more than 3ft.
Once the canes form, the feed value
suffers. Elephant grass seems to grow on
any sort of soil, provided it is worked.
It has a vigorous root system, and keeps
green when most grasses are dried up.
Bunchy-top Time.
“Mullumbimby”: Bunchy - top likes
hot, moist conditions —the present season
suits it admirably. The secret of keep-
ing it down is to spot it early and destroy
infected plants.
The first symptom is an inclination on
the part of the banana leaves to fold to-
wards the midrib ; they turn yellowish
and wavy ; small, dark, broken lines run
from the midrib towards the outer edge
of the leaf.
When three or four leaves have de-
veloped symptoms, the disease is far
advanced ; but, as infection is fairly slow,
a weekly examination of all plants should
do much to keep a farm clean.
The Queensland Agricultural Depart-
ment recommends treating the central
foliage of each affected plant and each
plant connected with it with a half-pint of
pure kerosene. The kerosene should be
allowed to soak well in, and the corms
should then be removed from the earth
and cut into bits not more than 2in. in
diameter.
All stools near the one in which
disease occurs should be sprayed with
kerosene emulsion as a preventive.
Master Farmers.
“Albarmount”: In the recent “Master
Farmer” competition conducted by the
N.S.W. Farmers and Settlers’ Assoc, and
the N.S.W. Agricultural Dept. 112 of
the 146 entrants were awarded over
2000 points (possible 2500) and qualified
for certificates.
The winner, W. T. Lewis, who gained
2300 points, works an 833-acre property
in the Berrigan district under a three-
year rotation of wheat, oats and fallow,
150 acres in each case. Pastures have
been improved by putting down 230
acres to lucerne, 80 acres to sub. clover
and Wimmera rye and 50 acres to
Phalaris tuberosa.
Fodder reserves are well catered for
with lucerne hay, a silo of oats and cereal
ensilage. Six hundred crossbred ewes
produced sucker lambs and wool, and
eight brood sows and 100 Australorp hens
further swell the income. After the
lambs are marketed the ewes are con-
fined to two-acre paddocks and hand-
fed to allow the pastures to revive.
Dorset Horn rams are joined during
this period. He has a garden, orchard
and well-bred A.I.S. cows—3Bo points
out of 400 in the diversification and
home-maintenance section.
The runner-up, N. J. Bate —a 685-
acre dairy farm at Bodalla—was only
13 points behind. Two hundred acres
have been sown to perennial rye, cocks-
foot, sub. and red clovers and Phalaris
tuberosa. More than half the fodder
reserves were fed out during the last ex-
ceptionally dry winter, but 20 tons of
lucerne and clover hay, five tons of
maize and 230 tons of pit and 140 tons
of silo ensilage remained for the judge.
A herd of 93 A.I.S. stud cows aver-
age over 3001 b. butterfat test; 56 head
of young cattle are also carried, with
pigs and maize-growing on the side. The
milk goes to the local cheese factory,
and the whey is returned to the farm
for stock feeding.
Third place went to B. J. Stocks,
Linden Hills, Cunningar. * Stocks beat
the winner in six sections of the 15, and
tied with him in three others. Although
he dropped 40 points behind in the pro-
vision for fodder reserves and crops, he
was only 24 down at the finish.
The judge, K. G. Carn, a depart-
mental instructor, made allowance for
poor soils and low rainfall, so the com-
petition was “really a test of skilled
management.”
Dwalganup Clover.
“Bogaduck”: The Dwalganup strain
of early-maturing sub. clover is becoming
as important as the Mt. Barker strain
did in an earlier day.
Rainfall figures are a poor guide as to
whether sub. clover can be grown. The
Mt. Barker strain is supposed to grow
in a rainfall of 20in. or over, but I know
S.A. places which average 23in. where the
ordinary strains cannot persist owing to
the short growing period and the sudden
onset of a hot spring with drying winds.
S.A. experience goes to show that
Dwalganup will set seed on a rainfall of
as low as 18in. and with a growing
period of six months.
Dwalganup has been overlooked be-
cause “it is all stems and few leaves.”
But it builds up soil fertility quite as
well as the more leafy strains and is a
success where other types wither when
just about to set seed.
A test of two paddocks showed that
Mt. Barker alone could carry an average
of 2.5 sheep p.a., while the stand of
Dwalganup carried 2.1. The Mt. Barker
strain, however, gradually died out ex-
cept for a few patches in hollows which
kept damp, needing resowing every two
or three years, while the Dwalganup
came up in a thick mat year after year.
Further, when soil fertility was built up
and rye grass was introduced to make
a balanced pasture, it was found that
the paddocks would then carry the same
amount of sheep, irrespective of the type
of clover.
On patchy country with areas of
white sand or rises which dry out rapidly
in spring it is a good plan to sow equal
proportions of the two clovers, well
mixed. If this is done, within a few
years the drier portions will have only
Dwalganup, and the Mt. Barker strain
will be confined to the damper areas.
In country where the growing of the
ordinary strain of clover is a gamble it
is better to use Dwalganup alone. Last
autumn I sowed one patch of high and
sandy ground with Dwalganup as a
saver. The rainfall was below normal;
summer came with a bang and we had
a week of scorching wind. The Mt.
Barker was burnt off just as it started to
make seed, and patches can be raked
without finding a seed. The strip of
Dwalganup made a profuse setting of
seed a fortnight previously.
“C.F.M.”: Try this for foxes. Drag
a well-dead sheep carcass behind a
sulky. Place the baits—strychnine and
pure dripping—on small stones so that
untaken ones can be gathered and drop
them at intervals. The time taken to
lick the stone clean gives the poison time
to work, and there is no need to look
far for a dead fox. The bait is not so
liable to be vomited and it cannot be car-
ried away and dropped somewhere else
for your dog to find. I got (near
Cradock, W.A.) 16 foxes from 17 baits.
“Blimp”: Not content with breaking
three Maoriland records for butterfat
tests, a young Jersey heifer, Punga Nui
Joyce, now leads in three separate
classes. The first record, in the 1935-36
season, was in the junior two-year-old
class, with a yield of 5901 b. fat in 10
months. Last season, as a senior two-
year-old, Punga produced 7941 b. fat in
365 days and calved again within three
weeks. In doing this, she also broke the
305-day record with 691.521 b. fat. She
has broken the senior two-year-old
record for all breeds. Her performance
was the better since she was milked only
twice daily, by machines, and received
no special feeding. Punga Nui Joyce is
now endeavoring to break the record in
the three-year-old class.
“Hanko”: A Victorian record for milk-
production from one property and one
owner? A farmer at Tynong, Gippsland
(Vic.), in seven days got a return of
£lOl for milk supplied to the Cora Lynn
cheese factory. The milk came from a
herd of 200 Jersey cows and heifers
grazed on 250 acres in the Koo-wee-rup
swamp area. Incidentally, the Cora Lynn
factory this year gained the champion-
ship of Australia for export cheese.


<§\.
%s*>
m
m
m
i
ai
a
i
i
*°
I
ESSII®
;.;V : -'-••
m
mm.
7a
%
6
See now
smart and
neat it
looks m
its beau
tif u 1
lea tlier
ette ease
A boy or
si rl can
carry it!
6>
Sf A>
*
4
iS> 4
4
\
4
C
& .4S
*V
*> &
O'A
R
V
<r 4
*
*
wm
$
C
❖
$
*
1
TEST IT AT OUR RISK
for 3 DAYS! (Read Below)
AT4B »*°
B EAV ‘" v oI.VME-'
* t »2?***‘j
>%>
Tsum
Mm
111
W!
r
The Most Amazing
Radio of All Time!
for glorious Radio Entertainment wherever you are, wherever
you wish to go at the lowest cost in Radio History!
JUST as it has thrilled countless thousands in the United
States, Great Britain and on the Continent, so the breath-
taking ROMER RADIO has already made hundreds in Aus-
tralia and New Zealand acclaim it as “the most amazing radio
of all time!”
It is without doubt the most important and most significant
step taken in radio in recent years, because it brings you for
the first time a really COMPLETE radio receiver. When you
see it and try it, you, too, will acclaim ROMER as the greatest
ALL-PURPOSE, NO-LIMIT RADIO EVER DESIGNED.
Sweeps Away the Restrictions
of Ordinary Radio.
It sweeps away the restrictions of ordinary radio
... it brings to radio a novel thrill ... a new,
incomparable value—for-money ... an incredible
usefulness that puts all ordinary sets into the
museum. It costs so little, yet it gives you so
much. Once vou have tried ROMER RADIO you’ll
never be satisfied with anything else, even if it
costs you £3O to £4O more!
Take Radio Entertainment with You
Anywhere!
Look what it gives you. In your home it gives
you everything you want from a radio . . . and
you can take it from room to room —sitting-room,
kitchen, bedroom, sunjporch, etc. No plugging in,
no messing about with wires. ROMER uses no elec-
tricity, requires no clumsy aerial, no bothersome
earth! You go out —you take ROMER with you.
Wherever you go, wherever you are, whatever you
are doing' ; whether you’re travelling, working,
at sport, or just plain loafing, the ROMER is your
constant radio companion. Snap open the door
• . . flick a switch . . . and you tune in music,
news flashes, sporting results, drama; your pick of
entertainment from over 60 star stations throughout
Australia and New Zealand. Station after station
rolls in with impressive volume and magnificent
tone, whether you live in the heart of the city or
the heart of Australia.
Imagine a radio that you can take with you any-
where, that does not tie you down to one spot,
that gives you the performance of a set costing
three times as much , . . that’s R.OMER RADIO.
Comes to You Absolutely Complete !
ROMER RADIO is complete, absolutely self-con-
tained,' requiring no additions whatsoever, not even
a separate aerial! It looks just like a. small suit-
ease in its deep-sea green ultra-smart genuine Eng-
lish mottled leatherette covering, finished with
heavily—plated hinges and catch. It measures only
14in. 'high. llin. wide, 9in. deep. Weighs only
271 b. complete!
Read the report of Australia’s leading radio
specialist, and see how the ROMER gives you a
performance equivalent to that of an expensive
six—valve superheterodyne. Think how useful it is ;
how it overcomes the restrictions of ordinary radios ;
how it gives you MORE radio entertainment at
LESS cost! You save money on the initial cost
because the ROMER comes to you straight from the
manufacturer. No dealers —no middleman’s profit!
You keep on saving when you get ROMER, because
it costs next to nothing to run. It requires only
one-twentieth of the power consumed by ordinary
receivers!
Demand' Heavy. Hurry Enquiries.
If you want yours you must HURRY. Demand is
heavy. Everyone wants his ROMER before the
Christmas holidays. Have yours with you then, too.
Try It FREE in Your Own Home!
\Yhy be content with an ordinary, out-of-date radio?
Don’t pass up this' chance to be the envy and
admiration of your friends! Send for full infor-
mation right now. Fill in the coupon and rush
it for FREE LITERATURE and details of the
FREE HOME TRIAL OFFER. Learn all about the
most marvellous radio of all time—FREE. Remem-
ber —when you get your enquiry we reserve a
ROMER for you. No obligation. If we don’t
hear from you in a short time, we pass the set to
someone else. This is for YOUR protection, because
demand is heavy. Sensational oflfer closes 10th
December —after then will be too late. All
reservations filled strictly in order of receipt. Hurry
—write NOW!
Editor of Australia’s Foremost Radio
Technical Journal praises ROMER
Mr. A. Earl Read, B.Sc., Editor of
“Australasian Radio World" says:
“For general all-round performance, but
especially for sheer ‘pulling power’ on distant
stations, the ‘ROMEIt’ is by far the finest
receiver of its type yet submitted to the
‘Radio World’ for test. 'ln fact, tested along-
side a 6-valve battery superhet of well-known
make, under identical conditions of battery
supply and aerial, the sensitivity of the
‘Romer’ was actually superior.
....Unlike several other commercial port-
ables on the market, the ‘Romer’ is not just
a standard receiver built in portable form.
From the lid aerial to the loudspeaker, it has
obviously been engineered specially for port-
able operation, and the designer is to be con-
gratulated on the unqualified success he has
achieved in producing a portable receiver that
is a revelation for its all-round performance
and general excellence of design.”
Magnificent Technical Design
Only the ROMER RADIO gives you its mir-
aculous performance because it is the only radio of
its type in the world, using a special exclusive
technical design, originally developed in the
U.S.A. It is a superheterodyne giving you six-
valve performance by using dual- and triple-
purpose tubes, with reflexing. Special circuit gives
exceptional sensitivity and razor-edge selectivity.
High impedance aerial coil, two intermediate fre-
quency stages using latest Litz—wound I.F. trans-
formers., special sensitivity/economy switch, auto-
matic volume control, new high-efficiency, low-
consumption output pentode—are just a few of a
score of brilliant features that ordinarily cost you
twice or three times as much.
Note the only address: Mr. K. G. Leydin, Antennex (A’sia) Agencies,
Kernbla Building, Margaret Street, Sydney.
l
VALUABLE LITERATURE
Send this Coupon NO.W for
Yours . . . and Hurry!
K. G. Leydin,
Antennex (A’sia) Agencies,
Kembla Building, Margaret Street, Sydney.
1 am interested. SEND ME RIGHT AWAY FREE LITERATURE and reserve for me a
\ ROMER RADIO. This reservation is for my own protection, and l am under no
j obligation of any kind.
j NAME
. ADDRESS
B. 24/11/’37.


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
the service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be cipnfined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Girl (15), Sydney, leaving high school end
of November, slight knowledge of office work,
wants junior position in city office. —7777.
South African (25) would like to correspond
with Bulletin readers. (To K. Goldman, 4
Selmour Flats, St. Quinton’s-road Gardens,
Cape Town, South Africa.)
Words of poem beginning “A Woman is
only a woman but a good cigar is a smoke.”
—7789.
Information Sought.
What were the batting averages of wicket-
keepers Oldfield (N.S.W.), Tallon (Q.), Walker
(S./4.) and Barnett (Vic.) in Sheffield Shield
matches, and v. England in 1936-37 ? Also their
efforts behind the sticks? —7820.
Sheffield Shield.
Not Highest Total
lngs. Out. Score. Runs. Av.
Tallon ..12 0 101 434 36.16
Barnett ..8 2 59 218 36.33
Oldfield ..4 0 63 105 26.25
Walker ..10 0 37 129 12.90
Against England.—All Matches.
Tallon ..3 0 31 49 16.33
Barnett 2 0 18 25 12.50
Oldfield ..14 3 60* 184 16.72
Walker ..3 0 29 37 12.33
* Not out.
Tallon caught 4, stumped 3, allowed 22 byes
in 1287 runs; Barnett caught 3, stumped 2,
10 byes jn 699 runs; Oldfield caught 8,
Stumped 10, 74 byes in 3781 runs; Walker
caught 3, stumped 2, 10 byes in 770 runs.
* <■ * *
(1) Members of the 1934 Australian XI that
toured England, and their ages when they
sailed? (2) Results of the tour compared with
the 1882, 1902 and 1930 teams?— 7807.
(1) Woodfull 36, Bradman 25, Brown 21,
Chipperfield 28, Grimmett 41, Ponsford 33,
Kippax 36, McCabe 23, Oldfield 36, Wall 29,
O’Reilly 28, Bromley 21, Darling 24, Ebeling
29, Fleetwood-Smith 24, Barnett 26. (2) Re-
sults of the four tours: —
Aban-
Played. Won. Lost. Drawn. Tie. doned.
1882 38 23 4 11
1902 39 23 2 14
1930 34 12 1 19 1 1
1934 34 15 1 18 —
* * # *
(1) Was an umpire correct in no-balling a
cricketer who delivered the ball when both feet .
were behind the crease? (2) What is the law
on the bowling crease? —7811.
(1) No; provided that he is within the re-
turn crease a bowler can deliver the ball from
any length behind the crease he pleases. (2)
Law 7 of the Laws of Cricket (revised by the
Marylebone Cricket Club) states: “The bowling
crease shall be in line with the stumps; 8ft.
8in. in length; the stumps in the centre; with
a return crease at each end at right-angles
behind the wicket.” The return crease can be
shortened for convenience and is unlimited in
length.
* * * *
Where and when was Jack Doyle, the Irish
heavyweight boxer, born ? Also, what was his
weight when he defeated American “King”
Levinsky in London recently? Have Doyle’s
singing records been successful ? —7689.
Doyle was born in Cork, Ireland, on Febru-
ary 28, 1914, and he weighed 15st. 41b. for the
Levinsky fight in London on July 20 last.
Nothing known here about his songs being
recorded, or if they were successes.
* * * *
(1) I am informed that at the first general
election for the House of Representatives S.A.
and Tas. were each polled as one division. Is
that correct ? (2) If so, please give names of
members returned for each State ? —7806.
(1) Yes. (2) S.A.: C. C. Kingston, John
Langdon Bonython, Patrick McMahon Glynn,
F. W. Holder, E. L. Batchelor, V. L. Solomon,
Alexander Poynton. Tas.: Edward Braddon,
King O’Malley, Donald Cameron, F. W. Piesse,
Phillip Fysh.
* * * *
Areas of the various Australian States and
mainland Federal territories and percentages of
respective areas on total area ? —7809.
N. S. Wales: 309,432 square miles, 10.40
p.c. on total area; Vic., 87,884 s.m., 2.96 p.c.;
Q’land, 670.500 s.m., 22.54 p.c.; S.A., 380,000
s.m., 12.78 p.c.; W.A., 975,920 s.m., 32.81 p.c.;
Tas., 26,215 s.m., 0.88 p.c.; N.T., 523,620 s.m.,
17.6 p.c.; F.C.T., 940 s.m., 0.03 p.c.
* * * * /
(1) What is the status of Auto-Union among
German car-manufacturers? (2) Date of first
production of D.K.W.-Front ? (3) Production
figures to date? (4) What are the Australian
customs duties on this car? —7605.
(1) The Auto-Union is an amalgamated com-
pany of four of the largest German motor-car
factories, D.K.W., Wanderer, Audi and Horch,
and is to-day the greatest motor-car manufac-
turer in Germany. (2) The car was invented
just after the Great War, but a considerable
time elapsed before it could be put on the
market. (3) Production figures to date of the
Auto-Union are approximately 850,000 cars.
(4) The charges for the chassis—the only part
imported into Australia —are about 50 p.c.
The exact amount cannot be given, as the
various parts— e.g., horn, etc. —have different
duties which can be looked up in the tariff
book.
* * * *
What do newspapers mean when, in cases
where the police are hunting a criminal, they
say an “intensive” search is being made ?—
7775.
What they sometimes think they mean is
a close search in a restricted area, as opposed
to a widespread hunt; more often the term is
used where “extensive” would serve as well.
Webster says “intensive” means “stretched, or
admitting of extension or increase of degree;
intent; unremitted ; assiduous; intense.” He
might have added that any of the four last-
named synonyms is preferable to the unneces-
sary word they describe.
How many whales have been caught in the
various whaling areas during the last five years?
—7778.
1930-31, Antarctic 40,201, Arctic 703, Africa
823, Japan 1147; 1931-32, Antarctic 9572,
Arctic 827, Africa 1043, North Pacific 319,
Japan 1036; 1932-33, Antarctic 24,327, Arctic
1004, Africa 1168, North Pacific 591, Japan
1325, other areas 253 ; 1933-34, Antarctic 26,087,
Arctic 583, Africa 2392, North Pacific 1019,
Japan 1775, other areas 311; 1934-35, Antarctic
31,808, Arctic 568, Africa 3004, North Pacific
855, Japan 2274, other areas 745.
* * * *
How does the signaphone, a French inven-
tion. work in giving a fire alarm? —777l.
It is operated either by thermostats fixed
near the ceiling or by push-buttons. With
thermostats, the hot air rising to the ceiling
when fire occurs acts on them and so breaks
a closed circuit. An electrical relay in the
signaphone starts a clockwork motor which
sets revolving a dialling drum on which are
small metal disks having projections correspond-
ing to the letters and figures \of the telephone
number of the nearest fire station. Thus the
fire brigade is called up. A gramophone record
bears a verbal message giving the location of
the fire and all essential details, and the disk
repeats its message continuously for 34 minutes.
After this the signaphone will automatically
ring up a second number—perhaps the home
address of the subscriber —and will repeat its
message to him.
* * * *
(1) Who represented Australia at the Imperial
Conference held last May and June ? (2) Who
were their advisers at the conference, and (3)
who were their secretaries and personal staff ?
—7770.
(1) Messrs. Lyons, Parkhill, Casey and
Bruce. (2) G. S. Knowles, Solicitor-General;
F. Strahan, Secretary, Prime Minister’s
Dept.; F. L. McDougall, Economic Ad-
viser, High Commissioner’s Office; Lieut.-
Col. W. R. Hodgson, Secretary, Dept, of
External Affairs; A. C. Joyce, Assist. Sec.,
Treasury; F. G. Shedden, First Assist. Sec.,
Dept, of Defence; E. McCarthy, Assist. Sec.,
Dept, of Commerce; Prof. K. H. Bailey, Prof,
of Public Law, Melbourne University. (3)
R. I. Douglas, Private Sec. to the Prime
Minister; J. A. Swanson, Assist. Private Sec.
to the Prime Minister; A. Stirling (External
Affairs Officer in London), Personal Assistant
to the High Commissioner; F. A. McLaughlin,
Private Sec. to the Minister for Defence; W.
E. H. Stanner, Private Sec. to the Treasurer.
* * * *
(1) Date of foundation of Condamine, and
name of founder? (2) Was it ever the head-
quarters of the Western Queensland Circuit
Court? (3) Was one of the present Supreme
Court Judges born there? (4) Population
between 1870 and 1880 ? (5) Any other in-
formation ? —7580.
(1) Condamine was founded by Alan Cun-
ningham, June 5, 1827. (2) It was for some
years one of the centres of the Circuit Court in
the Western District. (3) No. (4) Population:
1871, 203; 1875, 203; 1880, 112; 1881, 70.
(5) For further information communicate with
Mr. Whitecross, Dulacca, Queensland.
* * * *
(1) Can alternating current be used for charg-
ing six-volt car batteries? (2) If not, what
equipment would I require to charge from a
240-cycle , 50-cycle supply? (3) How to make
a battery box acid-proof ? —7776.
(1) No, an accumulator is charged by passing
a direct current through it in a direction oppo-
site to the discharge current. (2) The A.C.
must first be stepped down to a suitable voltage
and then rectified. A Tungar charger is recom-
mended for this purpose. It consists of a step-
down transformer, a gas-filled rectifying valve,
a regulating resistance and a charging ammeter.
(3) Melt together six parts of wood tar and
12 parts of resin in an iron kettle, then stir
in eight parts of finely-powdered brick-dust.
The surface to be covered must be
cleaned and dried before painting with this
preparation, which should first be warmed.
* * * *
(1) It used to be said that an electric current
flows from positive to negative; now it is said
-that the flow is in the opposite direction. Which
is correct? (2) If the bared ends of two
leads taken from a battery are laid on a piece
of moistened red litmus paper it will turn blue
near the negative lead. Why is this? —7772.
(1) According to the ideas of early experi-
menters the current flow was from positive to
negative, but following on the discovery of the
electron by Sir J. J. Thomson in the closing
years of last century it was. established that
the electron current flowed from negative to
positive. The original direction is still gener-
ally assumed because of its greater familiarity.
(2) This is due to the electrolytical action of
the current, which decomposes the water in the
litmus and liberates hydrogen. This gas acts
upon the litmus near the negative pole, thereby
modifying its color. A similar action is re-
sponsible for the deposition of silver on an
article in the electroplating process.
* * * *
(1) Value of a letter sent by balloon post
from Paris during the Franco-Prussian War in
1870? (2) Are many of these letters in exist-
ence? (3) Best method of selling one ? (4)
How many mail-carrying balloons left Paris
during that period, and how many reached their
destination ? (5) Does this constitute the first
airmail ? —7757.
(1) From about 25 francs upward. There are
many well-executed forgeries. (2) 10,727 kilo-
grammes of mail matter was carried, or over
24 million letters. (3) Try an advertisement
in the “Australian Stamp Monthly,” Box 1944,
G.P.0., Melbourne. Rates, 2d. per word. (4)
55. The first left on September 23, 1870, and
the last on January 28, 1871. All but eight
delivered their mails. (5) Excluding carrier-
pigeon services that were used at and before
Waterloo, the Paris balloon post was the
world’s first organised air-borne mail service.
* i * * *
A few details concerning the Federal Science
and Industry Endowment Act? —7823.
Under this Act the Federal Government has
established a fund of £IOO,OOO, the income from
which is to be used to provide assistance (a)
to persons engaged in scientific research and
( b ) in the training of students in scientific
research. Provision is made for gifts or bequests
to be made to the fund, which is controlled
by a trust consisting of the three Common-
wealth nominees on the C.S. and I.R. In
accordance with the Act, arrangements have
been made to send a number of qualified
graduates abroad for training in special fields
of work.
* * * *
Are wardsmen in N.S.W. hospitals handymen
or male nurses, and where can one learn to be
a wardsman?— 7Blo.
The duties of wardsmen in hospitals are
not those of a handyman within the hospital,
but are rather those of a male nurse. The
course of training for wardsmen is conducted
at any of the State institutions under the
control of the Director-General of Public
Health, Sydney, from whom information con-
cerning the course should be obtained.
* * * *
Some particulars regarding Charles Hart, Eng-
lish actor and grandson of Shakspeare’s sister
Joan?—
He is first heard of as playing women’s parts
at the Blackfriars Theatre as an apprentice of
Richard Robinson. In the Civil War he was a
lieutenant of horse in Prince Rupert’s regiment,
and after the King’s defeat he played sur-
reptitiously at the Cockpit and at Holland House
and ■ other noblemen’s residences. After the
Restoration he is known to have been in 1660
the original Dorante in “The Mistaken
Beauty,” adapted from Corneille’s “Le Men-
teur.” In 1663 he went to the Theatre Royal
in Killigrew’s company (with which he re-
mained until 1682, taking leading parts in
Dryden’s, Johnson’s and Beaumont and
Fletcher’s plays. He is highly spoken of by con-
temporaries in such Shakspearean parts as
Othello and Brutus. Pepys mentions him
several times. Hart died in 1683 and was
buried on August 20. He is said to have been
the first lover of Nell Gwynne and to have
trained her for the stage.
* * * *
(1) Suppose a teacher (N.S.W.) receives a pro-
visional classification (his first) of 3 B on April
1. On the following January 1 he is promoted
to 3 A provisional. Immediately following that
he gets 2 B in attainments and a 48 teaching
mark, his previous mark being B plus. When
is he entitled to promotion to 2B provisional ?
(2) How can a student with the following leav-
ing certificate pass—Latin (higher paper), Eng-
lish A, maths. I and II A each, modern his-
tory A, economics B, French B (on lower
paper)—matriculate for arts ? (3) Salary of an
assistant-master in a secondary school? By
how much is this greater or less than salary of
a 2A man in charge of 6th-class school? (4)
Does holding of a university degree automati-
cally entitle a teacher to secondary-school
salary ? —7763.
(1) A teacher must hold 3A classification for
two years before he is eligible for promotion
to class 28. (2) The leaving certificate pass
mentioned would qualify for general matricula-
tion. To qualify for arts matriculation the
student must pass in Latin at the higher
standard. This may be done at the leaving
certificate examination or at the matriculation
examination set by the University. (3) The
salary of an assistant-master, first year, is £405
10s. 10d., ranging to £522 10s. lOd. in five
increments. The salary of a 2A teacher in 6th-
class school (without sewing allowance) is
£4lB 10s. lOd. (4) No.
* * * *
Translation of the following Latin phrase ;
“Nulla autem reconciliare facilius benevolentiam
multitudinis possunt ii, qui reipublicce prcesunt,
quam abstinentia et continentia” ? —7756.
“By nothing can those in authority over the
commonwealth better conciliate the goodwill of
the mob than by abstinence and moderation.”
* * * *
(1) Description of the small bird known as
tree-runner? (2) How many species occur in
Australia, and where? —74B9.
(1) Tree-runners are arboreal birds with short
tails, long, pointed wings, and sharp beaks,
either straight or slightly curved upwards. They
are generally brown above and white below,
with a large patch of bright rufous (or white)
on the wings that is conspicuous when they fly.
Some species have the head brown, others
black and others white. (2) Five species of
tree-runner occur in Australia, but none ex-
tends to Tasmania. The best-known are the
orange-winged tree-runner of the eastern States,
the black-capped tree-runner of southern and
western Australia, and the white-headed tree-
runner of N. S. Wales and southern Queens-
land. The two others occur in the north of
the continent.
s= * * *
Identity and method of destruction of a green
shield-shaped insect which pierces citrus fruit,
causing it to turn yellow at the puncture and
fall ? —7585.
Appears to be the larger horned citrus bug,
Biprorulus bibax, of which there are a number
of migrations during the season. Control is
obtained by systematic handpicking until the
summer influx of the adult has ceased, usually
about mid-January, and the trees are then fumi-
gated with calcium cyanide in dust or briquette
form. In bad years a second fumigation at
half-dosage may be necessary within four weeks
of the first. If fumigation facilities are not
available a resin-caustic soda-fish oil spray may
ease the position, though if infestation is
associated with lemon-trees it may be better
to destroy any lemon-trees to protect the other
fruit. To make the spray, dissolve 31b. good
commercial caustic soda in 2gal. water, and,
while the solution boils gently, add slowly 101 b.
resin ground as finely as possible and boil until
a clear, dark solution is obtained. This is
essential. About half-fill the container to pre-
vent the mixture boiling over. Next add l|lb.
fish oil and boil for a few minutes to ensure
that no free oil remains. When used, this
amount of concentrate is diluted with 38gal.
cold water, and the agitator should be kept
running during application. If the concentrate
is to be stored the fish oil should not be added
before storage unless the mixture is kept in
perfectly airtight containers. Since solids are
deposited when the mixture cools, large quanti-
ties of the stock solution which are to be stored
must be divided while still hot to ensure equal
strength throughout. Division of the mixture
depends on the capacity of the spraying vats.
Careful mixing of the solution is essential,
otherwise injury to trees may result. The spray
must not be used in hot weather, 80deg. F.
being a safe temperature, and in some cases
90deg. Negligence of this point will result in
severe burning of leaves and fruit.
* * * *
What is the average life of silver coins? —
7827.
An examination of the wear on silver coins
made by the London Mint in 1909 revealed that
the average life of silver coins (then .952 fine)
was: 2s. pieces 45 years, Is. 41 years, 6d. 28
years and 3d. 32 years.
Brief Answers.
C.A.: Write Angus and Robertson, 89 Castle-
reagh-street, Sydney... .D.R.H.: Write Cine-
sound Film Productions, 65 Ebley-street, Waver-
ley... .K.T.C.: None. Kruger handed the
officers over to the British Government, and
they were tried in London under the Foreign
Enlistment Act in May, 1896; Jameson served
a year in Flolloway Prison... .K.C.: Will H.
Ogilvie’s address is Kirklea, Ashkirk, Hawick,
Roxburghshire, Scotland... .S.H.D.: State the
kind of brushmaker required and we will
furnish names and addresses... .H.A.W.: Write
Society of Australian Genealogists, 91a Phillip-
street, Sydney... .J.D. and D.M.1.: Consult
The World Almanac, The Statesman’s Year-
Book or Whitaker’s Almanack, available at
most public libraries... .R.M.L.: The Com-
monwealth Electoral Act provides that every
elector shall record his vote at each election,
but where, in the opinion of the electoral author-
ities, the reason furnished for failure to vote
is deemed a sufficient one no penalty is im-
posed M.R.P.: Curra-kurraja, “spring”; no
equivalent found for “trickle”; Willandra, Bin-
darri, Deelah, bal-loon, “creek”; Gungan,
Bookookoorara, “stream”; Duroya, Dungula,
Dhoonga, Bindea, “broad river”; Galliebarinda,
“rapids”; Karaka, “estuary”; Kiyong, Cagool,
Carawa, Kerkal, “the open sea”... . D.W.D.A.
(Port Pirie, S.A.): W. Storer was England’s
wicketkeeper in 1897-98 Tests in Australia;
and R. A. Young (first and fifth) and J.
Humphries (second, third and fourth) in 1907-08
series... .W.H.G.H.: These signs are com-
monly present in cases of a blood disease,
but some of them may occur in other diseases.
Bossing of the bones of the forehead is often
seen in rickets. A blood test generally settles
the question... .A.N.: Write Lecturer-in-charge,
Tanning School, Bourke-street, Waterloo
W.W.: There is no fixed sum. You are legally
bound to maintain her and the children of the
marriage and provide a home for them, whether
under your own roof or elsewhere. Provision
for their maintenance depends on your means,
but it must be sufficient... .S.A.: The ordinary
rule with regard to lost documents is that, on
proof that the document cannot be found after
proper search has been made, it may be proved
by the production of a copy or by oral evi-
dence of its contents A.L.E.: Communicate
with the maker of the coat or a maker of a
similar garment F.R.F.: Marlborough’s
Danish Self Taught and Dutch Self Taught
(both 4s. 6d.), Hugo’s How to Speak Danish in
Three Months (4s. 6d.) and Hugo’s Dutch
Simplified (7s. 6d.) —all from Dymock’s, 424
George-street, Sydney D.D.: Poems, by M.
Forrest, 55., from Dymock’s, Sydney....
W.McG.: Paper by T. D. Mutch, “The Early
Life of Henry Lawson,” Royal Historical
Society’s Journal, XVIII, VI, 273, 25.; Henry
Lawson, by His Mates, ed. by Bertha Lawson
and J. Le Gay Brereton, from Angus and
Robertson, 55., and voluminous papers, in the
Mitchell Library, Sydney D.H.A.: Water is
quite suitable for all classes of stock, but if
used continuously on the garden it will ruin
the texture of the soil. The solids are in solu-
tion, and there is no economic method of re-
moving them... .R.M.: Most reliable source
states that the first moving picture in Sydney
was screened in a Pitt-street theatre on November
9, 1896. There is another suggestion that, a
Mr. Flertz screened the first show at the
Tivoli in conjunction with a vaudeville show.
... .W.E.D.: Communicate with Kavanagh and
English, 517 Dowling-street, Sydney.., .G.M.S.:
Cannot give values of pictures. David Farqu-
harson, R.A., was a distinguished painter, and
his “Romantic Ground” is in the Adelaide Gal-
lery. Eugene Ciceri was a French landscape
painter and lithographer. Born in Paris 1813,
died 1890; was awarded third-class medal Paris
Salon... .M.D.K.8.: Means “give the right
hand in friendship”... .A.D.: Cannot identify
rash from your written description; “goose
flesh” is not a rash but a term used to de-
scribe the appearance produced by small
muscles under the superficial layers of the
skin L.C.: (1) No. (2) It may accom-
pany serious brain disease (tumor, meningitis,
encephalitis), acute alcoholism and affections
of the optic nerve. It may also be due to
strabismus (cross-eye) caused by unequal action
of the ocular muscles. (3) and (4) Operations
are frequently performed to remedy these
muscular defects and are generally suqcessful.
.... R.L.C.: The longest days occur in the
Southern and Northern Hemispheres not when
the sun passes directly overhead, but when it
is farthest north or south... .J.P.C.: Yes, up
to the conclusion of peace such a soldier would
have served in the theatre of war.... J.G.S.:
(1) A.D.C. to the King, Maj.-Gen. 10th
Hussars, Col.-in-Chief the Gloucester Regt.,
and Queen’s Own Royal Kent Regt. (2)
Superscribe “To H.R.H. Duke of ,” begin
“Sir,” conclude “I remain, Sir, Your R.H.’s
most humble and obedient servant”... .P.L.-S.:
Your pointers are underfed, so it would be
unwise to undertake the feeding of a St. Ber-
nard. It will require almost as much as the
three pointers and raw beef daily. Porridge is
no food for dogs, and milk is inadequate unless
fortified with yolks of eggs... .M. 8.8.: Write
Associated Retail Newsagents of N.S.W., 100
Clarence-street, Sydney... .J.S.: Instruction in
ladies’ hairdressing is provided by the Hair-
dressers’ Union at Sydney Technical College,
Ultimo. Information can be obtained on appli-
cation to the secretary, Hairdressers’ Union,
Williamson’s Chambers, 163 King-street, Syd-
ney....R.W.: No G.L.M.D.: Cannot trace
any club in Sydney of that name....J.P.S.:
(1) A. E. Smith, 9 Hunter-street, Sydney, will
give you a valuation. (2) Christies, 8 King-
street, London, 5.W.1... .J.M.G.: For cun-
gevoi,” one of salt and one of saltpetre; for
prawns, two tablespoons of brown sugar and
one teaspoon of salt (Many others mailed.)


PREPARE FOR AN
CARE
IN
STOTTS
CAN TRAIN YOU
YOUR OWN HOME.
Cut and Mail This Coupon!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGES,
96-100 Russell St., Melbourne; or 70 Pitt S't., Sydney.
Please send Free Commercial Art Prospectus.
My Name
Address
S.B. 637
ĺ
"Where the good
HATS are."
MURDOCHS DROVER
An Ideal Country Hat
Murdoch’s famous “Drover” Hats are worn universally
by the Man on the Land. Best fur, with 3iin. brim,
well ventilated crown, and plaited
leather band. Fawn, Slate and Black.
Price A Aj
The Famous SOMBRERO
Made of best fur with brim
each side, plaited leather band,
and slate. Price
and crown. Eyelets
Black, Fawn
27/6
The New
TEXAS
Murdoch’s introduce this Hat exclu-
sively, the finest headwear for the
Man on the Land. Made with 7 Jin.
crown with one to four eyelets, and
well-rolled brim. Pure Fur Felt
in Black, Steel, Grey or Fawn. Best
quality. All sizes.
37/6
Kindly write
to Desk “R.”
' '
We pay
freight.
MURDOCH’S LTD.
Park and
George Sts.
ļ
OUT WITH OLD-FASHIONED TOOTH PASTES
The New PEPSODENT
alone contains IRIUM which thrillingly
steps-up lustre on teeth
*Os,
•S
<%£*«!:■
%
M
An ">•? An
<V
c ° n 9 r nf *
. /° n o i
DOUBLE THE THRILL
or DOUBLE YOUR MONEY BACK
If Pepsodent doesn’t show up any other tooth paste you ever used... bar none!
The new Pepsodent alone contains
Irium, the spectacular new lustre
discovery.
It works on a totally new and
unique principle. It dissolves film
on teeth with a wonderfully swift
but gentle action.
The new Pepsodent, because of
Irium, thrillingly steps-up lustre on
teeth. Yet it is doubly safe because
it contains no pumice, no grit!
Doubly delightful because it con-
tains no chalk, no soap!
The New PEPSODENT alone
contains IRIUM
IRIUM is the secret of its amazing
polishing power, its phenomenal
cleansing action, and the reason why
it gives teeth double lustre with
double safety.
Paste, and if, in your opinion, it
does not give you Double the thrill,
Double the safety and Double the
delight of any tooth paste you ever
used —bar none—we will give you
Double your money back.
Just post the partially used tube to
The Pepsodent Co. (Aust.) Pty.
Ltd.,. Melbourne, and we will send
you double what you paid plus
postage.
&
Double Your Money Back
Try the New Pepsodent Tooth
PEPSODENT
The Special Film-Removing Tooth Paste
THE 2/■ SIZE IS THE MOST ECONOMICAL
THE PEPSODENT CO. (AUST.) PTY. LTD.
(INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA)
High-Polish Your Teeth FREE
This coupon entitles you to a
free generous supply of the new
Super-Soft High-Polish Pepso-
dent Tooth Paste. Just mail
to the Pepsodent Co. (Aust.)
Pty. Ltd., Dept. No. 4.. B° x
488 G, Melbourne, C.l.
N ame
Address...
City
AU7373D.
.State.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No nQtice X cept of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should
be addressed to the Editor, not to members of the staff personally.
K.C.: Not much in your verse so far
S. : Flinty heart of the cash bloke unmoved
by “Lines to a Circus Elephant” E.F.: Our
“comment upon this po6m” is that whatever
it is it isn’t a poem J. 1.5.: “The Record
Breaker” breaks nothing except the rules
C.R.G.: A twist in the last line, but that
doesn’t save it H.A.8.: Short one has ex-
cellent feeling, but what it says would be
fiercely resented. The other had been held in
the hope that part of it might be used
G.J.: Not our meat W.J.A.: “When Leif
the son of Eric on strange seas ventured forth”
he didn’t bring back a very exciting poem
Temc: Dunno how it would go to modern
music, but frankly it’s not much chop as verse.
H.P.: Even with its inspiration given away
with it “Mona Lisa” would probably flop
T. : Poem “to a Split Pea” exultantly de-
stroyed I.L.A. : “Hands on the Plough” sur-
vived various readings, but final verdict has to
be No V.W.: Two of the four tiptop. Try
some more R.T.: No time for the, gory
Chinamen who drank each other’s blood
F.D.: War-time yarns need to be very good.
C.J.R.: “The Nuisance” is the best you’ve
done yet. Try it elsewhere... .V.McL.: “This
is a delicate revelation of a woman’s inner-
most secrets.” Yes, that’s what’s wrong with
it....A.8.: Possibilities, but not very convinc-
ing... .M.N.C.: “The Running Fuse” fizzled
out after a couple of pages... .J.K.: Weak.
. ...G.McC.: Why make your characters speak
like dictionaries?... .N.T.L.: “This is the last
yarn I shall submit.” Hooray! R.B.McC.:
Too slight... .H.M.T.: “He ran away when
he was five, went to sea and worked his way
up in the world until at 22 he was a million-
aire ; then he went home.” Which is where
we’re sending the yarn.... J.P.0’8.: Making a
rough guess, we’d say “Time” was written in a
quarter of an hour....A.M.McD.: Might find
it a place elsewhere... .D.L.Y.: The first page
tells the whole yarn... .E.L.D.: As pointless as
a politician’s joke... .K.F.C.: Not interested
in “His Satanic Majesty,” who sends a couple
of spooks to haunt a sailorman... .P.L.C.:
“I have an idea that I can write.” Well, just
leave it at that... .T.1.L.: “To the Furthermost
Stars” was too far for us... .S.D.C.: “He
couldn’t understand what it was all about.”
Nor could we L.C.: We can’t use that sort
of article D.C.: That barber won’t be slit-
ting his customers’ throats in here C.N.A.:
“The magnificent Australian youths who go
manfully forth to stain with their blood far-
off foreign fields” are not for us 8.L.D.:
We liked your sentiments but nothing else....
W.D.T.: “What do you think of this little
piece of work?” Not much... .J.P.D.: That’s
the tenth “thirst-crazed prospector” who’s tried
to touch us this week... .H.C.L.: “He
stumbled and fell” —into the w.p.b
R.A.McI.: No way for “Where There’s a Will.”
D.E.: You’ve almost exhausted that theme;
try another C.L.G.: Yes, comedy may
border on tragedy, but you seem to think that
they are the same thing... .L.R.E.: “Of What
Avail?” None N.D.K.: All entries for the
Short Story Competition will be held until
the results are announced... .8.P.L.: Senti-
mental balderdash for flappers H.8.W.:
Thanks for the subtle flattery, but it doesn’t
help the yarn E.S.L.: “The Man Who
Couldn’t Sleep” has a a very familiar ring.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS
A.D.: The couple under the mistletoe have
strayed from a recent number of London
“Punch”. .W.F.M.: That jest is crusted with
barnacles P.F.: Figures well posed, but
linework is too heavy... .K.C.: The signature
is quite neat W.G.: The basket claimed the
deformed hodcarrier and the obese foreman.
H.S.C.: It wouldn’t reproduce, and the
jest is an old-timer... .K,M.: Too late in the
day for a Federal election cartoon N.D.:
Sending the lady with the stove-pipe legs back
to Toorak W.C.: You managed the full
moon, but you made a mess of the couple on
the verandah J.T.L.: Humor feeble, and
the sketch lacks polish J.D.: Figures appear
to have been hacked out of hardwood with a
blunt tomahawk... .E.N.: Long-winded con-
versation between scrawny charladies fell on
deaf ears T. 8.: No cheers for outsize
kangaroo saluting sickly 1i0n... .S.R.: Your
festive Caledonian will not grace our “issue
of January 2, 1938”—in any case, there won’t
be one then... .8.P.: Gent, with the walrus
moustache and his spouse are a dismal pair....
E. : Shows promise, but you need lessons.
M.K.: Wash drawing too dim and murky.
... .T.P.: A dreary effort and a cheerless gag.
W.E.O.: A pair of painful scratches
F. Some signs of merit; keep on trying
N.H.H.: Almost tempted to print it as a horrible
example P.L.: Subject not well enough
known for a national newspaper C.G.E.:
Stiff drawing, wooden joke A.A.V.: What
you don’t know about anatomy would fill
volumes... .H.T.: They need to be more clear-
cut E.N.8.: The art editor ordered the
general to be shot at dawn L.C.: Neat
drawing burdened with tame gag....A.A.: A
hopeless trio.
A MIXED GRILL.
“M.”: This troubled old world has
communities that are independent of
Roosevelts, Dunstans and Spooners.
When in her native country recently,
Mile. Matis, of Melbourne, escorted a
party of tourists to the south-west, where
men, women and donkey-carts were
harvesting grapes for French wines, and
to Alsace. There the travellers dis-
covered four villages where there has
been no unemployment since 1928. The
peasants from the four villages co-
operated in buying a quarry near by,
where they put all their unemployed
men to work.
»i* H*
From a London letter: There was
an odd touch about the recent open-air
Shakspeare in Regent’s Park. “A Winter’s
Tale” was given—on a warm night, as it
happened. A minor character is eaten by
a bear, and a glimpse of the beast among
the shrubbery was allowed. The Zoo is
close by, the various roars and cries of
the animals were plainly to be heard, and
many spectators wondered whether
something had happened that was not
set down in the prompt book.
* * * *
Sherry threatens the supremacy of the
cocktail at the five-to-sevens. Sensibly
enough in a wine-growing country, sherry
parties are growing in favor. There’s a
suggestion of the academic about this
wine, so that one almost feels a Baude-
laire or a Louis Sterne after a noggin
or two.
* * * *
“Sandpatch”: Somebody wrote re-
cently that “the Mt. Isa (N.Q.) milk
supply comes from Atherton.” Every
drop of fresh cows’ milk used at Mt. Isa
is supplied by the Frank Frazer concern,
of Ingham.
* * * *
“D.”: Touching that par. (B.
17/11/’37) about the provincial poli-
ticians who cater to the craze for
gambling. Australia in entering upon a
dangerous age very ill prepared. If it
neglects the important things of national
life for an unhealthy concentration on
tin-hares, lotteries and s.p. it may avoid
trouble, but it will be lucky if it does.
“Runa”: One Maoriland dairy-
farmer has for years felt a sympathy
with the Biblical gentleman who made a
rash vow. When he was married his
wife asked him to promise that none of
his daughters should ever be asked to
take an active part in the outdoor dairy-
ing portion of the farm work, that to be
left entirely to the menfolk. He
agreed readily enough, and nowadays
contemplates his family of seven with
mixed feelings—they are all girls.
* * * *
“Schnorrer”: When a bill to prevent
the registration of German-Jewish dentists
was before the Tasmanian Parliament it
was mentioned that 32 such and 45 dental
mechanics had applied to the Dental
Board to be enrolled. These were the
first exact figures given about an inrush
known to be considerable, though doubt-
less greater in proportion to population
in the amiable Mr. Ogilvie’s State than
in any other.
* * * *
“El V.” reminisces:
E. W. Archer, whose name cropped up at a
Brisbane pastoral conference the other day,
was M.H.R. for Capricornia (1906-10). Of
Norwegian descent, his family was among
the earliest settlers in Central Queens-
land. A large, solemn man with a facial
likeness to “Iceberg” Irvine, who shared
with him the distinction of being one of the
few clean-shaven Ms.P. in an age of whiskers,
he sometimes showed a pretty wit. Once with
George Reid I visited the little settlement
named after him near Rockhampton. Archer
and Reid drew lots as to who should speak
first. Archer won, and said to his audience:
“You don’t want to hear politics from me.
You will hear enough from my opponent, one
of the most comic speakers in the world.” He
then gave a fine imitation of George in action.
When George appeared on the platform and
began as Archer had forecast, the hall rocked
with laughter. George was equal to the situ-
ation. “I was perplexed when I came on this
platform,” he said, “but now I realise what is
the matter. My opponent’s case was so ludi-
crous that none of you can stop laughing at
him. There is, therefore, no need for me to
speak. I wish I could celebrate my victory
by shouting for you all, but I am, as it were,
a guest in my opponent’s territory. I think the
drinks are on him.” They were.


THE FAMOUS McCLARY
MODEL 22 GAS.
Baking Oven, 151 x 20 x 12 inches; Broiling
Oven 151 x 20 x 7 inches ; Cooking Top, 181
x 22 inches ; Floor Space, 381 x 231 inches.
Green and Ivory finish. Four Star Burners
with Automatic Lighter. With Oven Heat
Control and Oven Insulation.
A MODEL FOR GAS
A Model for ELECTRICITY
In various sizes for flats, homes,
hotels, etc.
New Standards in
Fine enamelled finish.
$ Large oven.
@ Generous boiling space.
Grilling without odours.
Q Saving use of gas or
electric current.
MODERATE PRICE.
COOKER
MARCHES ON TO
NEW CULINARY
VICTORIES WITH
BOTH GAS FUEL.
AND ELECTRIC
POWER
MODEL 22 ELECTRIC.
Supplied in various, Grey and White Enamelled
finishes.
Roasting Oven, 15J x 19 x 13 inches. Cooking
Top, 18 J x 22 inches; Height to Cooking Top,
34|in.; Floor Space, 39 x 32 J inches; Surface
Elements, I—9in. 2000 W. (Max-Speed), I—7-Jin.
1200 W. 1-600 W. ; Oven Elements, 1-1800 W.
(Upper), 1-1200 W. (Lower), Warming Oven,
1-400 W.
CALL AND INSPECT WITHOUT OBLIGATION.
Phone M 6505 (IS Lines). Late Shopping, Friday, 8.30 p.m.
(Incornorated in Victoria) PROPRIETARY LTD.
324-30 Pitt St. Sydney. ’Phone: M 6505 (18 lines)
391-403 Bourke St., Melbourne. ’Phone: CB3so (is lines)
MACMILLAN’S
NEW BOOKS
The prices advertised are those at which the
books are published in London. Prices outside
the British Isles must be fixed by the importing
bookseller
HUGH WALPOLE’S
New Novel
JOHN CORNELIUS.
(Colonial Edition)
“Tantalising', original and stimulating.”
— "Punch.”
MACMILLAN’S
EMPIRE LIBRARY.
New Volumes.
FOR US IN THE DARK.
By NAOMI ROYDE SMITH,
author of “Jake,” etc.
THERE ARE FOUR SEASONS.
By RICHMAL CROMPTON,
author of "The Old Man’s Birth-
day,” etc.
NOTHING IS SAFE.
By E. M. DEL AFIELD, author
of “Diary of a Provincial Lady,”
etc.
WE ARE NOT ALONE.
By JAMES HILTON, author of
“Lost Horizon,” “Knight Without
Armour,” etc.
MY MIS-SPENT YOUTH.
A Naval Journal by HENRY
FITCH.
BY RUDYARD KIPLING,
TOOMAI OF THE
ELEPHANTS.
With 29 beautiful illustrations
from the film, “Elephant Boy.”
2/6.
CAPTAINS COURAGEOUS.
2s.
To bo Obtained from all
Booksellers.
MELBOURNE- & LONDON, W.C.2.
MACMILLAN & CO., LTD.
The Team That Didn't Win a Test.
Joe Darling, who had been out of
first-class cricket for some years, coax-
ing the root of all evil out of a 7000-
acre holding in Tasmania, came back in
time to be chosen a member of the 1905
team for England; and his old com-
panions appointed him captain again.
Joe was one of the selectors, but it
was his fellow-selectors who picked him.
He did not vote, nor was he very keen
on going to England for the fourth time.
He had to apply for leave to attend to
his Tasmanian and South Australian
business interests (he had a sporting
goods shop in Adelaide), and was un-
able to accompany the other 14 cricketers
to Maoriland, a trip to that country hav-
ing been arranged as a preliminary to
the tour of England.
The choice of Joseph was amply jus-
tified by his performances in England,
and so was that of Frank Laver as
player-manager. All the same, the work
of the selection committee was warmly
criticised. One aspirant, it was alleged,
had been turned down because he had
once smitten a selector on the nose.
On 1904-05 form, Gregory, with a
batting average of 24, and Howell, with
a bowling average of 32, had not earned
inclusion, nor had Charlie McLeod, with
a bowling average of 35 —the worst on
the Sheffield Shield list.
Saunders had been excluded —because,
it was suggested, he had been no-balled
by Phillips and might be no-balled in
England. The left-hander had many
champions, and so had E. F. Waddy,
while there were many who thought that
the selectors might have taken a chance
with promising youngsters like Ransford
and Mackay. The exclusion of Waddy
seems to have been a blunder. He had
a great season in Sheffield Shield matches
(he topped the averages with 68) and a
still greater one in club and University
(pricket. In club matches for University
he made four centuries ; in the inter-
’Varsity match, Sydney v. Melbourne,
his score was 309. His style of batting
was not unlike that of Worrall, and the
chances are that he would have been at
least equally successful on all manner
of English wickets ; but this plucky and
vigorous batsman was never to have the
chance.
Algy Gehrs, of Adelaide, was picked
in preference to Waddy, evidently be-
cause of his superiority in the field.
Gehrs had made a century for S.A. against
Warner’s team, also 170 for his State
against Victoria and 159 against N. S.
Wales; but his performances in Eng-
land were only middling. He struck a
bitterly cold season, and he had dietetic
as well as climatic troubles. Also, he
had been recommended to the English
public in these headlines:
ALGERNON GEHRS!
A Trumper with the Bat, a Gregory
in the Field.
Cricketers were not exactly a happy
family that year. Warner had written a
book on his Australian experiences,
some passages of which were resented.
The Transvaal Cricket Union had passed
a resolution declaring that it did not
want the Australians in Africa. And
overtures towards the formation of a
board of control had not prospered.
It was proposed that players should be
represented on the board. The South
Australian Association was agreeable, but
New South Wales and Victoria said no.
On the other hand, South Australia ob-
jected to financial arrangements to' which
Victoria and New South Wales were
favorable.
The Melbourne Cricket Club, for its
part, wanted to retain control of matches
played in Australia by English teams.
Before the 15 tourists left Australia, it
got their signatures to an undertaking
that they would play against any Eng-
lish team the Melbourne C.C. might
bring out.
Three old Australian Eleven men played
against the travellers in Maoriland: Harry
Graham, Sid Callaway and Sammy Jones
—he, of course, a member of the 1882
team, was much the oldest of the three.
The services of Shacklock, a professional
from Nottingham, were also requisi-
tioned. But even with this assistance
the Maoriland sides were so inferior that,
after a few experiences of seeing them
dismissed for small scores and seeing
their bowling knocked all over the shop,
their fellow-countrymen stayed away in
vast numbers. It is a propensity not
peculiar to Maoriland crowds.
LIBBY COTTER,
When he was 21.
The English programme opened with
a match against the Gentlemen of Eng-
land. Matches against the Gentlemen
of England had been features of early
tours, but for some reason or other
there had been none since 1888.
Perhaps it was thought that the Aus-
tralians were little better than gentle-
men’s gentlemen. In 1878 they were
regarded by the lowah ordahs as colored
gentlemen ; and not by the lowah ordahs
alone. Consider the unimpeachable
testimony of A. G. Steel:
“Many of the lower classes were so
ignorant of Australia itself, to say no-
thing of the cricket capabilities of its
inhabitants, that they were fully ex-
pected to find the members of Gregory’s
team black as the Aborigines. One day
in the pavilion at Lord’s, the writer,
who had been chosen to represent the
Gentlemen of England against the
visitors, was sitting beside Spofforth
watching a game in which neither was
taking part. The Rev. Arthur Wall came
up. ‘Well, Mr. Steel,’ he said, ‘so I
hear you are going to play against the
niggers on Monday.’ His face was a
picture when Spofforth was introduced
to him as the demon nigger bowler.”
Possibly Steel himself contributed to
the reluctance of the Gents to meet the
Australians by his attitude to those
wanderers: “With regard to future visits
from Australian teams,” he wrote in
1893 —and presumably he often spoke
in the same disparaging strain —“we do
not want them again for, certainly, five
years. Their first few teams encouraged
and gave a fillip to English cricket; but
the thing has been too much labored,
and we in England are now weary of
these continued invasions The Aus-
tralian players have been in the last
15 years thoroughly well beaten; we
may, then, well ask them to wait until
they are in a position to say ‘We have
improved; we think we stand a fair
chance of beating you, as we have eleven
first-class players.’ Until this happens,
we sincerely hope we shall not See an
Australian team in this country.”
Forward, Dr. Robertson, chairman of
the Board of Control!
One of the Gentlemen of England in
that 1905 match was an Australian,
L. O. S. Poidevin. Jessop, Fry and
Warner were others. Time saved the
Gentlemen from an inglorious licking, the
scores being: Australians, 270 and 526 ;
Gentlemen, 156 and 3 for 129.
In a return match at Lord’s the Gentle-
men were defeated by an innings and
189. In the meantime the Australians
had drawn with Nottinghamshire and
Surrey and beaten Oxford University by
100 runs. After putting the Gentlemen
through they defeated Yorkshire by 174
and Lancashire by 244.
In the Lancashire match McLeod, who
had previously done little, bowled with
astonishing success, taking 5 for 49 and
5 for 16. Laver had distinguished him-
self with the ball, having dismissed more
than a third of the opposing batsmen
cheaply, and Armstrong had been far
and away the most successful batsman.
The first Test match, played at Not-
tingham, showed some strange see-saws.
The Australian tail was as erect as if it
had been starched and ironed when one
of the strongest elevens that England
ever put into the field was struck out,
chiefly by Laver (7 for 64), for 196
(Tyldesley 56, Lilley 37, Rhodes 29 and
Bosanquet 27). But the Kangaroos’ re-
sponse was only 25 to the good (Hill 54,
Noble 50, Cotter 45, Armstrong 27 and
Trumper, retired hurt, 13 ; Jackson 5 for
52), and the tail got a slope in it.
After another two or three hours of
the Lion at the wickets the Australian
caudal appendage was barely horizontal.
The regular Australian bowlers were all
collared, and Duff was brought to the
crease. He bowled Jones for 30, and got
Tyldesley caught and bowled for 61 (2
for 43); moreover, he caught MacLaren
off Laver. But MacLaren had made 140,
and Jackson (82 not out) and Rhodes
(39 not out) had entered upon a most
productive stand.
When the Australians took the field
on the third day, rain had" fallen. It was
not enough to affect the hard wicket, but
it made the ball greasy. Jackson and
Rhodes added a hundred, and with 5
down for 426 Jackson declared.
Darling (40) and Duff (25) smote 62
for the first wicket, and hope revived.
But Trumper was “absent, hurt,” and
of the others only Gregory (51) could
play Bosanquet, who took 8 for 107. Off
Rhodes, who got the other wicket, 58
runs were scored, but when Lilley
stumped the last man, Laver, off “Bosie,”
there was only 188 on the board. Beaten
by 213.
“I hope we shall see no more of the
monstrous style of bowling adopted by
Cotter, and imitated rather feebly by
Jessop,” wrote a London “Referee” man
in an acrid article on the match. “De-
liberately to pitch half-way, with no
other object than to frighten the bats-


HER HANDS WERE
ALL OUT OF SHAPE
In Grip of Rheumatism
for 15 Years
No matter how long you have suffered with
rheumatism, there is always hope for you if
you persevere with Kruschen, as the following
letter proves: —
“For about 2 years 1 hardly went out, it
was such a painful effort to walk owing to
rheumatism. My hands and feet were the
worst affected. I was unable to walk without
a stick. I tried everything I saw advertised,
but I got no*better. I said I would not bother
again, but I read so much about Kruschen I
decided to try it. I was three months before I
felt any better, but I kept on, and since then
I have been fine and never used the stick.
My hands were all out of shape, but they are
almost normal now. Of course I could not
expect to get better all at once, as I had
suffered for 15 years before I started on
Kruschen.” —(Miss) A.L.
Rheumatism cannot resist the action of
Kruschen Salts, which dissolve the painful
crystals of uric acid —the cause of those aches
and pains—and assist the kidneys to eliminate
this poison through the natural channels.
vJ AV A
Bathed in glorious tropical sunshine,
Java, with her countless attractions,
awaits you — beautiful landscapes —
ancient temples — bazaars — colourful
native life—palatial hotels. Equipped
with every modern convenience, the
t.s.s. "MARELLA" and m.v. "MERKUR"
sail regularly from Melbourne and
Sydney along a smooth water route.
Life on board is pleasant. Spacious
decks, restful lounges, a tiled swim-
ming pool, the latest talking picture
i equipment—each day is pleasure-filled.
At your request we shall be
pleased to forward folder No. 61.
1 BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD.
7 BRIDGE ST., SYDNEY
TELEPHONE B790I
f
WWiSWJ.-
128 ADELAIDE STREET, BRISBANE -— 312 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
And at ADELAIDE, FREMANTLE, CAIRNS, WELLINGTON, AUCKLAND
SYDNEY
caan n
\ciVt(
AUCKLAND
w
UICLCtNCTO
THE NEW
UNION
LUXURY
LINER
“AWATEA”
CROSSES THE
TASMAN IN
2% DAYS!
This 23-knot express liner has set
a new standard in Trans-Tasman
travel.
Notable modern features include the Gymnasium, enclosed Promenade and
Observation Deck, Men’s and Women’s Club Rooms, Verandah Cafe and Dance
Room, as well as the Library and Writing Room, Luxurious Lounge, Music
Room, etc.
The “Awatea” carries First and Tourist Class Passengers.
Regular Service maintained between Sydney, Auckland and Wellington.
For all Particulars apply:
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z., LTD.
(Incorporated in N.Z .)
247 George Street, Sydney.
59 William Street, Melbourne.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
men by making the ball go over their
heads, is emphatically not cricket.
A “Daily Chronicle” contributor found
the English batting tedious compared
with that of the Australians. “It was
the difference of night and day, of a team
of supple athletes and a collection of
degenerates,” he wrote. Sporting jour-
nalism has itself degenerated since those
robust days.
Cotter was left out of the team ror
the second Test match at Lord’s, but
Trumper was back in it. In weather
that was lovely at the beginning, the
Englishmen made a pretty good start,
and at the close of the day had 258 up
(MacLaren 56, Tyldesley 43) with two
wickets in hand. Rain fell during the
night, but the day broke fine. Before
noon the last English wicket had fallen
at 282 (Fry 73 ; Hopkins 3 for 40, Laver
3 for 64, Armstrong 2 for 41).
Australia ran up 100 for 4 wickets
(Trumper 31, Duff 27, Darling 41); then
the wicket began to dry, which favored
the bowlers. A slump set in; though
Armstrong made 33, five wickets fell for
50 and the side was out for 181 (Jackson
4 for 50, Rhodes 3 for 70).
The Englishmen’s second innings
found MacLaren again in good form;
he knocked up 79 before Armstrong
bowled him. At the end of the day five
wickets were down for 151. The next
morning brought heavy rain to the rescue
of the Kangaroos. By reducing the wicket
to a slough, it made a drawn game of
what would otherwise most certainly
have been a defeat.
S.E. GREG GORY.
He visited England with eight teams.
Then came a picnic to Dublin, fol-
lowed by a defeat at Leyton. The Aus-
tralians’ exhibition against Essex, nearly
the worst county, was absolutely their
worst during the tour. Four of them
failed to score, Gregory getting “a pair.”
The only redeeming features were
Laver’s bowling (10 for 129) and Hop-
kins’s batting (67 not out). On a fast
and good wicket our champions were
dismissed for 100 and 202, and defeated
by 19 runs.
But the Essex defeat put them on their
mettle. In the next match (the sixteenth)
at Birmingham they defeated Warwick-
shire by an innings and 51, Noble reach-
ing his 1000 runs ; and at Bristol, against
Gloucestershire, they knocked up 527,
declaring with nine wickets down. In
that match Trumper made his first cen-
tury. But the bowlers continued to fail
when the need was greatest, and the
county made a draw of it.
Safety-first tactics were followed by
both elevens in the third Test match at
Leeds. As at Lord’s, England got. a
substantial first-innings lead, thanks
chiefly to Jackson, who, off his own bat,
made nearly half the English total (301)
and 106 more than the scores of seven
Australians, Trumper, Hill, Noble and
Darling among them. His 144 not out
was really a masterly effort. But for
Armstrong (66), Duff (48) and Hopkins
(36), the Australian total would have
been a disgrace.
But Jackson’s captaincy was not equal
to his batsmanship. In his side’s second
innings Tyldesley (100), Hayward (60),
Fry (30), Hirst (42 not out) and Bosanquet
(20 not out) increased the advantage to
401. But some of them were very slow
and he let them plod along till nearly
lunchtime on the third and last day;
then, with five wickets in hand, he put
the Australians in. Had he declared an
hour earlier, England would assuredly
have won ; as it was, the Australians lost
7 wickets for 224, to which Noble con-
tributed 62, Hill 33, Armstrong 32 and
Gregory 32 not out.
Armstrong was the mainstay of the
Australian bowling as well as of their
batting. In the ;first innings he got 2 for
44, and in the second innings he took all
five English wickets, bowling leg-theory.
Warren, an express from Derbyshire,
picked chiefly because he was “new” to
the Australians, took 5 for 57 and 1 for
56, Trumper (8 and 0) being among his
victims. Colin Blythe, also playing in
his first Test match, took 1 for 36 and
3 for 41. Curiously enough, both were
dropped; but England had plenty of
good bowlers that year and plenty of
good batsmen too.
The strength of the batting was demon-
strated in the fourth Test match at Lan-
cashire, when only Brearley, the fast
bowler, playing instead of Warren, failed
to reach double figures. The total was
446, and again Jackson led all the rest
with 113, Hayward (82) and Spooner
(52) being his principal supporters.
Kelly’s hands were going back on him
and he was finding it difficult to take
Cotter; hence there were 39 sundries.
McLeod did well to take 5 for 125, but
though 14 of Armstrong’s 48 overs were
maidens he was expensive—l for 93.
Rain assisted the English bowlers to
put the Australians out for 197. When
things were going badly Darling batted
very pluckily for 73 —he was caught by
Tyldesley off the other captain—but the
others could do little with Brearley (4
for 72) and Rhodes (2 for 25). They
fared even worse in the second innings,
though Trumper (30) and Duff (60)
raised their hopes for a time, and Eng-
land won by an innings and 80. Brear-
ley’s contribution to the rout was 4 for
54 ; Rhodes took 3 for 35 and Arnold
2 for 35.
The fifth Test match was played at
the Oval, and here England batted first
for the fifth time. And for the fifth time
its uncommonly successful captain came
off. Jackson’s scores were 76 out of
430 and 31 out of 261 (for six wickets),
and he got Noble’s wicket when Noble
(25) looked like staying with Duff (146).
Duff’s innings was the finest of the
match, though Fry (144), Tyldesley (112),
Spooner (79) and Darling (57) kept the
scorers busy. It was a fast-bowlers’
match, Cotter bagging 7 for 146 and 2
for 73, and Brearley 5 for 110 and 1
for 41. Again the Englishmen might
have won, if Jackson hadn’t been so
cautious; with 329 required, the Aus-
tralians had lost four of their best men
for 124 when the clock pointed to 6.30
on the third day.
So, although the Australians were only
thrice beaten in England that year (16
matches were gained and 19 drawn) they
didn’t win a Test, nor did they ever look
like winning one. They depended too
much on Trumper, who, though he fin-
ished with an aggregate of 1798 at 35.96,
was far from being in his splendid 1902
form; and though Noble’s batting had
shown a great advance (he wound up
with 2084 at 44.34) his bowling had de-
clined (59 wickets at 26.40). Armstrong
proved the outstanding all-rounder, head-
ing both batting and bowling averages
(2002 runs at 48.82 and 130 wickets at
17.60). Darling did his job as captain
and batsman (1768 at 39.28) and Laver
(115 wickets at 18.19) proved the most
successful player-manager on record.
Nevertheless, the Australians were out-
played in every department by English
sides, which included Jackson, Rhodes,
Hirst and Bosanquet as all-rounders,
Tyldesley, Hayward, Fry, MacLaren and
Spooner as batsmen, Brearley, Warren
and Blythe as bowlers, and Lilley behind
the sticks.
The Australians’ second wicketkeeper
was Phil Newland, of Adelaide. He was
a very fine all-round sportsman, excel-
lent at football and lacrosse as at cricket,
but an accident prevented him from giv-
ing much assistance to Kelly. On the
steamer after leaving Maoriland, a smash-
ing hit with a cricket ball took him at
close quarters on the cheekbone, fairly
lifting the jaw off its hinges. Noble, who
was a dentist, and the ship’s doctor,
were occupied for several hours getting
it into place again, and when he reached
London the South Australian had to con-
sult a specialist. He played in few
matches during the tour.
Newspaper writers were unkind to the
team when it returned, and very inquisi-
tive about its finances. It was admitted
that they had been satisfactory, but
details were not published. A statement
made at a V.C.A. meeting that profits
had panned out £9OO a man was denied.
One of the veterans, giving evidence in
a court case, said that his cut might
amount to £BOO less expenses —“some-
where about the same as on previous
trips.” He had sent a few hundreds from
England to his people—£2oo or £3OO or
it might be more. All of which gave the
impression that members of the beaten
combination were indifferent to the finan-
cial side of the tour and were liable to
leave their share of the profits on the
hotel verandah and forget all about it
when they went to bed. Their attitude
was vaguely suggestive of the barrister
and the flap at the back of his gown —
a survival of the pocket in which his
client was supposed to put the fee while
he was furiously conducting the case for
sheer love of justice. Counsel never
knew he had been paid anything till he
sat down exhausted on top of his money.


rw.
mm
=®WSSS«a^ Ji^
*#s*!
WmM
SSWMBC
I
;V
s
h
IM
■
iaH
, *r
-
- • ..
An exhibition of Oils, Water-colors and Etchings, etc., by leading Australian artists, at the Macleod Gallery, 252 George Street, Sydney.
Admission Free. Open Week Days, 10 a.m. until 4.30 p.m.; Saturdays, 10 a.m. until noon.
AUSTRALIAN WRITERS
By M. BARNARD ELDERSHAW.
(S) Leonard Mann.
I EONARD MANN, born in Melbourne on
November 5, 1895, was .educated in the State
Schools and at Wesley College and studied law
at the University of Melbourne. He was called
to the Victorian Bar and acted as associate to Mr.
Justice Lukin in the Commonwealth Arbitration Court.
He served with the A.I.F. in France, and since 1929
has been general secretary of the Victorian Employers’
Federation.
His first novel, Flesh in Armour, has made its
way slowly to an assured position in Australian
literature. It was awarded the Australian Literature
Society’s gold medal for the best novel published by
an Australian during 1932.
It is a book of outstanding quality and of national
as well as literary importance, for it is a record, the
most intimate and living that we have had, of the
Australian soldier in France. Its background is the
vast mass of war, against which the five Australian
divisions show in bright heroic colors. From the
divisions the Nth battalion is chosen ; the focus is
narrowed down to the last platoon of the battalion,
to a group of men in it, to one man, Corporal Frank
Jeffries, the last man in the battalion on march. It
is a cross-section through war, showing everything
from the universal drama to the individual tragedy,
the reality of the one neither impaired by nor sub-
jugated to the reality of the other.
A moving picture of war, it has not been tidied
up or reshaped for public gaze. It is the more con-
vincing for that; a crazy pattern of incidents, jokes,
catastrophies, fatigues. Nothing lasts long; grief,
laughter, ugliness, boasting are all swallowed up in
war almost before they are formulated.
The many characters are sturdily drawn with the
true impress of life. Take, for instance, Jim Blount:
“This man Jim Blount was one of the old
originals.... Blount had declined promotion,
even when, after he got his M.M., the colonel
had himself summoned him to the orderly-room
and offered him corporal’s stripes and a school,
with the hint of a lieutenancy quickly to follow.
He had refused, not because he was afraid of
responsibility, but simply because he did not
want it. In the midst of war he had made a
discovery. He had discovered himself. And
now he was finding out something else ; that
life was ductile and could be fashioned into
harmony with that new understanding. His
eyes were becoming used to a new and appe-
tising world. The life of a private soldier left
him free, and his freedom had become essen-
tial.”
Blount is killed at last, at the very end of the
campaign, in a valiant single-handed attack on a
party of twenty Germans who were out-flanking his
platoon.
In the rough and tumble of men and events the
character of Frank Jeffries is more delicately and
portrayed. He was a civilian at heart,
a schoolteacher, and was never able to turn himself
into a soldier. He lost himself utterly ; his nerve,
instead of hardening, melted away. When the war
is won he is an utterly defeated man. He can no
longer face life.
“ he took the last Mills bomb from his
pocket. With fingers that did not tremble, he
drew the pin and let the lever spring off.
Sraightening his shoulders he stood stiff, as if
on inspection at parade, and held the serrated
bomb with both hands at his heart.”
Despite Frank Jeffries there is nothing defeatist
about Flesh in Armour. It is full of life and fierce
with pride. It records the destruction of the indi-
vidual, the disintegration of the battalion, but the
triumph of the army. The book closes with a summary
of the Australians’ final achievement, given barely as
statistics, which is the very compression and sum of
pride.
“What had they done during this last and
culminating period of their history? The
efficient soldier who was their leader sets it
out, as he would, in a statistical fashion. From
the Bth August, the day, in Ludendorff’s own
testimony, called ‘Germany’s Black Day,’ td
sth October, the five divisions, weak to start,
and becoming weaker from losses, which there
LEONARD MANN.
was no flow of reinforcements to replenish,
until at last they were almost skeletons,
captured 116 towns and villages, as well as
hamlets, farms, brickfields, factories, sugar
refineries and similar groups of fortified build-
ings. One division had taken the impregnable
Mont St. Quentin from the Prussian Guards,
another the renowned fortress of Peronne held
by the picked volunteers of an Army, and yet
another the ridge of Bouchevesnes. They had
thrust the enemy back frorn the outer defences
of the Hindenburg Line and pierced through the
Line itself, after first meeting an unexpected
and dangerous position in which two remnants
of divisions had rescued two full American
divisions from the completion of a great disaster.
During that period they had ejected the enemy
from 394 square miles of French territory, and,
during the process, the Five had engaged 39
separate divisions —twenty once, ten twice, six
three times, and one four times —each engage-
ment representing a distinct period of line duty
for the hostile division. Of these divisions at
least sixteen had, by the time of the Armistice,
to be disbanded on account of their losses.
From 27th March, when their sangfroid had
saved Amiens, to sth October, the prisoners
they had taken numbered 29,144 ; and the guns
338, apart from innumerable machine-guns and
mortars. In March the five divisions had repre-
sented 9j per cent, of the whole of the other
53 British divisions on the Western Front.
Their captures, by the same comparison, were
as follow: Prisoners, 23 per cent.; guns, 231
per cent.; territory, 21 \ per cent, of the whole
of the British army. They had been the spear-
head of the attack which shattered the German
arms and inspired the others to north and south.
Thus was written the last page of a record
which commenced with Gallipoli.”
This passage illustrates Mann’s essentially mascu-
line and condensed prose style as well as the forceful
spirit behind the book. /
Three years later came the second book, Human
Drift, a story of the Victorian goldfields in the ’fifties
of last century. It is more akin to Flesh in Armour
than appears on the surface, for in it the author
examines the same qualities of character and a similar
set of circumstances. It is as if he had gone back
into history to find the roots of that which he por-
trays in the other book.
The picture of the times is more interesting than
the story, which is very loose-jointed. There are the
inevitable ingredients ; the rough life on the diggings,
lucky strikes, violence, bushrangers, social unrest, the
climax of Eureka Stockade, a love interest subjected
to life and necessity, and end in subdued triumph.
The style is naturalistic and highly individual.
Naturalism in literature is generally kept for simple
themes. Mann, not without courage, applies it to a
highly complex theme. There is no rigid pattern,
events and scenes are strung loosely on the not very
important thread of the story. The final result is a
very complete picture of an important phase of Aus-
tralian development. That it does not conform to the
recognised pattern of the historical novel calls for
some readjustment in the reader’s mind.
With A Murder in Sydney —a book which won
instant success overseas —Mann breaks new ground
for himself. This is a murder without mystery, the
scene contemporary. The 22-year-old Barbara
Hallam, fiercely resenting the dishonor done to her
mother, murders, on a passionate impulse, the woman
her father proposed to marry almost immediately
after his wife’s death in suspicious circumstances.
The book begins hesitatingly and baldly, but
gathers way'as it goes on. The focus of interest is
in the character of Barbara and in the ex-soldier Matt
Dyas, who loves her and stands by her through the
nightmare of the trial. The book is both powerful
and real, and, like Human .Drift, it resists the tradition
of its kind and asserts itself as an independent and
individual effort.
With the story of crime there is woven another
strand —the social unrest rife during the Depression.
The “disaffected” motif is insufficiently developed to
be impressive; it weakens rather than strengthens
the book.
A Murder in Sydney has defects. It has suc-
ceeded, but not perhaps in what it attempted. Rather
is its success a by-product of a more ambitious failure.
That Flesh in Armour is still the most important
of Leonard Mann’s three novels is in no way an
indication that his ability or his promise has
diminished. But you feel about Flesh in Armour as
you do not feel about its two successors, that it was
an imperative book and was created as spontaneously
as any book can be.
Publications: Flesh in Armour (1932), Human Drift
(1935), A Murder in Sydney (1937).
(This article concludes the series.)


FALSE TEETH ARE A GREAT
INVENTION, BUT KEEP YOUR
OWN AS LONG AS YOU CAN
111111 l
mm
" \
WMMM
mm
■mm
v .
s; m
im'
mmi
am
im
... v
Sllllli—
mm
1*1!
m
■&zmm
4 , f
:
&
mm
m.
pun
7'V
WmWwwmmm
;!*•:«
■
|l||;iisi
mmmm
mm
mm
mt
i' -
False teeth often follow Pyorrhea, which comes to four people
out of five past the age of 40.
What is “Pyorrhea ”
that millions
dread it so?
It’s a pretty grim statement, hut the truth is half the people who wear false
teeth must do so because they failed to guard against pyorrhea, which is
responsible for one-half of all adult teeth lost.
They cannot, however, be entirely blamed for their line-drawn lips and
sunken cheeks —those telltale marks of artificial teeth.
For pyorrhea, which comes to four people out of five past the age of forty, is
a sly, insidious disease. It may infect your gums early in life, and lurk
there for years before you become aware of its dangerous presence.
Do not Wait for gums to bleed
The first warnings of pyorrhea are tenderness and bleeding of the gums. If
neglected, pyorrhea softens the gums, loosens the teeth in their very sockets,
until extraction is essential to preserve the health.
But do not wait for these warnings. Take care of good teedi
while you have them. See your dentist regularly before trouble
develops. Visit him at least twice a year.
And in your home brush your teeth, massage your gums with
Forhan’s. This dentifrice is unique in that it contains the benefits
of an ethical preparation developed by Dr. R. J. Forhan, which
thousands of dentists use in the treatment of pyorrhea.
Protect the teeth you have
Your own teeth are far better than anything you can get to replace them.
Perhaps you do not realise what a blessing they are, so long as they are firm
and your gums are in good health. But do not risk the unhappy experience
of losing them. There is no finer dentifrice than Forhan s no better
protection for gleaming teeth and the mouth of youth. By all means, make
Forhan’s your dentifrice —you can make no better investment in the health
of your mouth and the safety of your teeth.
Obtainable from all Chemists and high-class Stores, or will be sent post-free upon receipt of the
price by the Australasian Agents—The Sheldon Drug Co., Ltd., 131-135 Clarence St. Sydney. N.S.W.
nmtnaujujfEH
*oi
• *
i -ft % i
t T. 5. ..Hi
*531
f«Wt
:f.'
m
Small Tube, 2/-
Extra-large Tube, 3/-
Forhan
for the gums
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK'S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
ļ
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy o c Bulletin every
week for one year so tftat I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS ......
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
S°*A V'tfc^V*,
Cv->
0° -x
v 6 10*
/
o'
AS*
A V 0
o’? to
..SW^


mi)
m
m
m
Mk
•fim
m
WCS
vis
'NATIONAL
MUTUA
m
s
Low Premium-
Large Bonuses-
Soundly administrated—economically man-
aged—the National Mutual gives maximum
benefits at minimum cost-benefits unexcelled
in Life Assurance.
THERE ARE NO SHAREHOLDERS
Policyholders alone are the sole owners
of the National Mutual’s millions.
NATIONAL MUTUAL
LIFE ASSOCIATION /AUSTRALASIA LTD
(Inc. in Victoria)
Established 1869.
350 George Street, Sydney
395 Collins Street, Melbourne.
And throughout Australia, New Zealand, Great Britain, South Africa, India, Ceylon and Straits Settlements.
