

* *
Created an all tim
SALES RECORD
F 0
k
Lin
au a
With the demand for quality more insistent than ever . . . with competition the keenest in
years, Atlantic Products, in 1936, eclipsed all sales records! —What more positive proof
could you have of the value of these products to you? ,
As modern higher powered ears and adyancing industrial machinery demand improved quality
. . . more staying power from fuels and lubricants, private motorists and industrialists alike
are turning to Atlantic. Month after month ... in both city and country . . . the demand for
Atlantic products goes steadily up and up!
With 1937 still young, why not start now to enjoy the full benefits of Atlantic products
yourself? They cost no more!
ATLANTIC ETII YL, ATLANTIC PETROL, ATLANTIC MOTOR
OIL, AND OVER 300 OTHER QUALITY PRODUCTS.
1W54.48.37.
The
Bulletin
Results of Youth Competitions
Vol. 58.—N0, 2981.
Wednesday, March 31, 1937.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


DYMOCK’S LIBRARY CATALOGUE
with terms and particulars, will be sent
post free to any address on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
“The Block,”
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
JLearn
sadf
ESjltjyTM
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE ,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
My Address
S.B. 137
S. H. Prior Memorial Prize
Third Competition, Closing June 6, 1937.
F,.1) narticulars of this annual literary award will be published
here fron? S .0 “me, or may be had on application to Ihh
Bulletin. 252 George-street, Sydney.
For this current competition only novels are ehgibk, and the
Prize will be awarded to that which is considered the most
out standi n a contribution to Australian literature. _
The trustees will publish the successful work in book form,
the trustees w F .. deem worthy. If published as a
Seml AnfL« a fide Australian resident or any person born in
Any nr n , or British South Pacific islands will be
Australia, Ne f the compe tition works which must be the
eligible to ent entrants, and previously unpublished, either
ongma' work o the s“ -a^form Manuscript s must be
whotty or in P > , plume, and the true name and address
S f’r te lhor must accompany each entry in a sealed envelope,
whkh will not be opened until the judges have made their decision.
Thp trustees reserve the right to withhold the Prize if no work
submitted is, to Ihe opinion of the judges, worthy of an award
If this should occur in any year, the amount of the Prize will
added to the following year’s Prize.
The Red Page
SOME MAORILAND LETTERS.
Precisely in the centre of the square-mile
draughtboard that constitutes the original City of
Christchurch (M.L.) stands the life-size bronze statue
of an austere-looking man with side-whiskers, hat in
hand, cloak on arm. The legend is “John Robert
Godley, Founder of Canterbury, 1850.” He faces the
rising sun. Some years ago the City Fathers uprooted
his pedestal, shifted him out of dead centre and
planted him, facing west, a hundred yards or so
away. But he wouldn’t stay there, and after a little
while he was back on his original perch. This was
fitting, for though Godley spent but a few years in
Maoriland he was the first agent of the Canterbury
Association, and found time, while supervising the
first few years of settlement, to act also as Resident
Magistrate and Commissioner of Crown Lands —jobs
for which he refused payment.
But though he put his imprint on an important
bit of British colonisation, and earned the respect and
gratitude not only of Canterbury but of the Colonial
Office, curiously little is remembered about the man.
It is on record that he was the son of an Irish land-
owner, an undergraduate of Christ Church, Oxford
(whence the name of the city he was to found), and
one of the pioneers of the Oxford Movement. A
devout Anglican and a high Tory, he had an idealistic
conception of his duty. He believed that it was
incumbent upon him to live austerely, to practise
self-denial and charity, and to preach to the lower
orders (these are his own words) “respect for
authority, unquestioning faith, humility and resigna-
tion —all that is opposed to the spirit of wild,
licentious democracy that seems to threaten us.”
Probably the threat Godley had in mind was com-
prised in Lord John Russell’s Reform Bill. Not
exactly the man to found a colony successfully, one
would think, but Godley’s honesty and tremendous
industry and, above all, his unfailing tact and common
sense carried him through with flying colors.
The letters of his wife, Charlotte Godley, written
from Maoriland between 1850 and 1852, recently
published for private circulation, add lustre to her
husband’s tradition by casting a vivid light on the
hardships and difficulties that beset him in those
early years. Not that Mrs. Godley ever complained
about the hardships. She was a gentlewoman of the
best Early-Victorian vintage, and what she and her
husband most detested was the new arrival who
moaned about having to rough it. Her recital of
pioneering vicissitudes may be passed over. What is
most illuminating in these letters, written mostly to
Mrs. Godley’s parents and intended for no other eyes,
is her lively and outspoken criticism of many of the
people with whom she came in contact. But on this
subject the reviewer is constrained by the fact that
almost every name she mentions has been perpetuated
in Canterbury by a swarm of descendants very
worthy and reputable people, too—and it would be
cruel to rake up the long-forgotten peccadilloes of
their great-grandparents.
There is one figure in her chronicles, however,
big enough to stand the racket —George Grey. When
the Godleys arrived in M.L. he had been Governor
for five years, and behind that had some years of
experience as an administrator in South Australia.
At the time they met him he had probably forgotten
more about colonisation than J. R. Godley, with all
his zeal and industry, was ever to learn. Moreover,
though a very autocratic one, he was a democrat in
political outlook, and that was a gulf no Godley
could bridge. Here’s Mrs. G.’s pen-picture of Grey,
written after the first meeting:
He is tall and plain, with rather a red tip to a
rather long nose, and rather expressive eyes. His
manner is supposed here [Wellington] to be perfect
and fascinating, because he can generally talk anyone
over to his own opinion; but we both thought him
very stiff and not very agreeable, though you see at
once that he is quite a clever man. I need not tell
you how he has been lately convicted of something
very like a falsehood, in full council, and other things
not quite likeable.
Through the pages of Charlotte’s correspondence
stalks James Edward Fitz Gerald, later to be the
Province’s most fiery editor and, less importantly, a
member of the first Cabinet. Grey gave him a job
on his first day in Lyttelton as Inspector of Police,
and he was also Emigration Agent. He was a tempera-
mental chap, and changed his mind as to his future
plans so many times in the first few weeks that Mrs.
Godley writes “I was quite tired of him, and 1 think
Mrs. Fitz Gerald was too.”
But there is nothing but praise for Bishop
Selwyn. This intrepid explorer, who sometimes for
ten months at a stretch was out of touch with wjjite
settlements, evidently retained his parlor manners, for
Mrs. Godfrey found him “so very agreeable At
night he talked to the clergymen’s wives whom we
had to meet him, and cut up cake and handed bread
and butter as if he had been a curate on his promo-
tion.” But there are spots even on this refulgent
sun: “With grief I must own that one of the Bishop’s
eyes is not quite so lively as the other; it is scarcely
a cast, far less anything of a squint, but a slight want
of unanimity that just mars the perfect benignity of
his expression.”
Mrs. Godley was much distressed-at the decay of
polite manners among the young men who were
founding sheep-stations and farms in the outback.
She records that she begged young Messrs. Wortley
and Hanmer, who were going “to the north to keep
sheep” (Hanmer’s name now sticks to a spa near his
pioneer homestead), to “have a lay figure of a lady,
carefully draped, set up in their sitting-room, and
always to behave before it as if it were their mother
or some other dignified lady.”
But Mrs. Godley wasn’t always on her own
dignity. She recounts with zest that while she was
hanging out her own washing a Maori came with four
just-washed shirts and asked how much she would
charge to iron them. Godley, standing by, amused,
advised her to take the job, for which she received
eightpence.
The last of the letters is one written by J. R.
Godley himself and records impressions of a visit to
Sydney when the Godleys were on their way back
to England in- 1853. There’s room only for a pen-
picture of Charles Fitzroy: “The Governor-General
is an antiquated beau with a somewhat roue look
about his eye, a most elaborate ‘get-up,’ and an easy,
familiar manner which I had been warned not to
be led astray by, as he has a way of pulling people
up rather sharply if they are tempted to forget for
a moment that he is Governor-General and they are
nobody. I don’t like him.” Humility and respect
for authority weren’t the Christian virtues ordained
for high Tories.
ARIHUR D. WYLIE.
W. B. Griffin and Canberra.
Much as I appreciated Miles Franklin’s tribute
to Walter Burley Griffin (R.P. 3/3/’37) as a just
recognition of a gracious man, the reference that
“Canberra to - day.... remains an expression of
Griffin’s original ideas, and is his Federal monument,
does not altogether square with the facts concerning
Griffin’s relationship with the national capital.
In a broad sense, of course, that statement is
true, but the fact remains that the treatment which
Griffin received from the Commonwealth, and the
subsequent tinkering about with his plan for the
building of Canberra, saddened the later years of the
gifted architect.
Tinkering in a minor way commenced almost as
soon as the work of construction began ; and, while
in its general concept Canberra remains the product
of Griffin’s brain, there are many modifications which
robbed the Griffin plan of some of its richest features.
The major one was the abandonment of the lake
scheme. To the end of his life Griffin felt that the
lakes which he had designed were a vital and integral
part of the original design, and that by the failure
to construct the lakes the core, as it were, of his plan
had been destroyed.
Griffin proposed the construction of two artificial
lakes, Eastlake and Westlake, fed by the thin dribble
of the Molonglo River and spreading for some square
miles over the low-lying countryside which surrounds
the higher points on which the main features of the
city were built. In drawing up his plan Griffin’s
artistic sense detected that the great drawback, from
an artistic point of view, in the site chosen for the
national capital was the absence of any impressive
stretch of water, and his artificial lakes were inspired
by the importance of such a background.
It is still possible, of course, that the lakes might
be constructed. But nearly two decades have passed
without the slightest move in that direction, and
Griffin has passed on with his own particular dream
of a great city unrealised.
I met him several years ago at his quaint and
charming home at Castlecrag (Sydney). The talk
drifted to Canberra, and, producing his own set of
plans, his deft fingers and pleasant voice traced the
importance of the lakes in his scheme of things.
In another important respect his original plan
was departed from. It was Griffin’s belief and hope
that the city would be developed in compact segments
as far as the living and residential areas were con-
cerned. He did not visualise the bureaucracy which
preferred to isolate the “best” people in their own
exclusive “suburb,” or that amazing procedure by
which “suburbs” were dotted all over the map,
corresponding in some extraordinary manner to the
relative social and public-service positions of their
residents.,. This mode of construction over a period
of more than a decade has added tremendously to
the cost of Canberra, as well as to its inconvenience.
Nearly every visitor to Canberra comments adversely
on this aspect of the city ; Griffin must not be blamed
for it.
WARREN DENNING.
An Australian in Nigeria.
Russell Crocker is a South Australian: an honors
graduate in history of the University of Adelaide who
went on to Balliol and then to Stanford. His firstbook,
The Japanese Population Problem, was of extraordi-
nary interest, especially to Australia, and it has been
enormously neglected here. His latest book, Nigeria :
A Critique of British Colonial Administration (Allen
and Unwin), though its immediate theme may seem
remote enough, is also of real importance to us, for
Australia now has a Pacific empire of uncounted
souls and we have responsibilities to history and our
fellowmen which we hardly appreciate.
Crocker joined the administrative service of
Nigeria in the late twenties. He spent the prescribed
year of study at Oxford (all recruits to colonial
administrative services do a year at either Oxford
or Cambridge, studying relevant subjects), and rose,
after a three-year tour as cadet, to be Assistant Dis-
trict Officer. The book presents in its first part a
record of his experience as an administrative officer;
its second part is a tract on colonial administration.
Crocker is a realist, and his general conclusions
are always informed by facts. He recognises clearly
deficiencies in the personnel of the service; but the
book is unusually free from the private prejudices
which haunt so many modern memoirs. Thus, when
he approaches the major problem of all colonial
Administrations to-day, the “Europeanisation of
native populations, he is as removed from the senti-
ments of Exeter Hall as from the indifference often
characteristic of “men on the spot, especially those
who make a good thing out of the exploitation of
native lands and labor.
Over the African colonies as a whole the native
traditions and forms of life persist, but there is a
rapidly increasing group of “literates” ; which means,
only too often (there are, of course, able and honoi-
able men among them), natives infected by the worst
vices of an alien “education”; natives who “have
memorised all the cliches (“British justice, an insult
to decent Africans,” “liberty of the person”) and have
“a natural instinct for oratory,” and who “can make
effective play, as they now well know, on English
liberalism at home, and especially with that section
of the Nonconformist Conscience which battens on
Armenian atrocities, Oriental slavery and all the other
motes in their neighbors’ eyes.” We break the tradi-
tions and social habits of these people: we offer
them, as guides of life, a jumbled jargon which only
confusedly represents the values of our own tradi-
tions ; and we provide for colonial Administrations
to-day and perhaps for the whole world to-morrow a
problem which may be insoluble.
The one governing principle which can justify
colonial empires is that we treat the native as an
end in himself and not as a. means to any end of
our own.” It is inconceivable that native cultures
can persist unchanged in the face of the modern
world ; the duty we set ourselves when we under-
take colonial responsibilities is to order the change,
to prevent that “break in the continuity of conscious-
ness” which throws societies into chaos, to bring
what is valuable of the native culture and tradition
into contact with those elements of our own culture
and tradition which are assimilable:
For, willy-nilly, Africans will attempt to assimilate
parts of European culture; and the resulting action will
be disturbing. It is therefore highly important that
those in power should be conscious of what exactly
is involved, and should consciously control (as far
as possible) the process and the reaction to the process
by providing buffers and shock-absorbers. Education,
the censorship (especially of the cinema), changes in
the status of women, the age of marriage, criminal
law, travel, are examples of the kind of question which
will have to be dealt with.
And then, ominously:
To manage the reaction would be difficult at any
time but unfortunately for the African (and for us) he
meets with European culture at a period when it is in
chaos, perhaps in decay, where all is doubted, divided,
jaded, uprooted, and where religion, morality and taste
are falling before the advance of the vulgarian and the
machine.
Crocker has admirable views on the structure
and temper desirable in colonial services. They can
be recommended to Canberra. And one wonders
again as one has wondered in other cases, why art
Australian of Crocker’s quality finds no place and
(i Continued on page 8.)


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”—and in every act.
“THE SENIOR STORE ”
ANTHONY HORDERNS'
WARM WINTER OUTERWEAR
lor Clothes— Conscious Men
ese warm Overcoats offer more than protection—their smart,
well-dressed appearance stimulates confidence and a feeling of
<*PPy satisfaction in the knowledge that you have spent to the
est advantage by buying at these keen prices.
* Overcoats of Quality
BP
mm
mm
i
A
m.
m
\
/
i
t
■ . •:.. '
BBSS I
I
mm
mi
■ai
H 1
m ■ j
||||||? mL#,
PH
■
ill
mmsi
n
phi
11
i J
IPI
I*M§
■
mm
m
WmMSm
■
s>X\
II %:
IS
■Mi
WEm
WXSmmit itllli
■
■
■i
HH
■ -"
■
HU
m
m
A
■ m
m
m
11
■
i.' I
£3l
HH
A: : -
1H
n
■H
mg
L
A
X , i
I
mm
:
IS
Leather Coats
m
Men’s Leather Coats in
double-breasted styles with
the all-round belt. Dark-
brown coats in real hide that
will not crack or peel.
Price
79/6
English Made
135-
Men’s English-made Over-
coats. Fine quality tweeds
in greys and fawns, smartly
patterned in diagonals and
herringbones. Procurable
in double-breasted or single-
breasted styles. Price 135/-
Gabardine Coats
75-
Men’s Gabardine Coats.
These are scientifically
proofed against wind and
rain. Designed in smart
raglan styles and obtainable
in fawns, olive and dark-
grey. Price . 75/-
• The Sports Coat
Men’s Sports Coats. Fine quality all-
wool English Tweeds with
the latest action backs and
patch pockets. Price
49*6
• The Slacks
Men’s Elasta Strap Trousers. These
slacks are made of all-wool light-grey
worsted flannel, and are the
latest style in this self-support-
ing trouser. Price
236
Mens Wear around Floor, George Street.
Freight paid to all railway stations in N.S.W. and seaports in the Commonwealth.
ANTHONY HORDERN and SONS Ltd., SYDNEY
’Phone: M 2401, Day and Night. Postal Address: Box 2712 C, G.P.O.


Ben Hall Helps a Lady.
OUT OF THE
PAST
THE SNUG RETREAT
J.H.M: ABBOTT
DRAWINGS BY PERCY LINDSAY
MR. JAMES HARDIMAN fingered his star-
board Dundreary whisker as he watched the
unfolding beauties of Port Jackson from the
deck of the Newcastle packet. It was early
morning, and the sunshine lit the bunches of red-gold
hair on each side of his not unprepossessing coun-
tenance in a way that he felt must surely exercise a
due impression upon the group of voluminously
crinolined ladies standing near the helmsman on the
poop. One was a delightful young creature in a fetch-
ing little pork-pie headdress and dimples whom Mr.
Hardiman ogled through his single eyeglass, his deer-
stalker cap rakishly tilted at an angle calculated, he
thought, to do full justice to the devilishness of what
he called his “toot ongsemble,” and his baggy knicker-
bockers, of a dashing grey with a yellow check in it,
flapped above his horizontally striped stockings and
gave life to the picture he knew he presented of
manly British beauty.
The tail-funnelled little paddle-steamer drew into
Sydney Cove and made fast to the Australian Steam
Navigation Company’s wharf after much blowing-off
of steam, churnings of the water into soapy eddies, and
raucous bellowings of “Ease ’er!” “Stop ’er!” and
“Go astarn!” on the part of the burly, pilot-jacketed
captain dancing about on the narrow, shelterless
bridge stretching athwart ship between the tops of
the semicircular white paddle-boxes. A man of
violent language, this chin-bearded captain, thought
Mr. Hardiman —one who had not the polish of a
gentleman. A blasphemous and profane person who
did not care whether there were ladies present or not.
They were all much of a muchness, the colonists,
and, although the cursing captain was obviously a
Cockney, no doubt he was as surely one of this
inferior race as if he had been born in some of the
Hunter River wildernesses such as Mr. Hardiman had
been in lately.
Sweeping the decks with their spreading skirts,
the ladies aft made a progress to the companionway,
and his polite bow, with doffed cap, was simperingly
acknowledged by the fair charmer he had selected as
being worthy of the attention of a gentlemanly
traveller of his own calibre. But the square-jawed
lady whom he had heard addressed as Mamma merely
scowled at him. The others he had not particularly
noticed. They were simply women making a passage
in the packet-boat which he had honored with his
own patronage, and only noticeable on that account.
He went below and put the deerstalker away in
his carpet-bag, presently emerging, through a door
that had been opened on the main deck abaft the
port paddle-box, on to the wharf. Here a burly
fellow almost forcibly bereft him of his bag, con-
descending a nod when instructed to carry it to the
Royal- Hotel, and led the way from the waterside into
the town.
They turned into George-street and made
leisurely progress through the heart of the city to
the principal accommodation house. At the doorway,
where lounged several gentlemen in peg-top trousers
awaiting breakfast, he found a four-wheeled convey-
ance drawn up and the ladies from the Hunter River
making sweeping entrance to the hotel. He bowed
again, and again a dimpled simper rewarded him.
Mr. Hardiman booked his apartment with quite
a sense of elation, and rewarded the boots with six-
pence as the worthy fellow deposited his carpet-bag
against the bedroom wall. He was always, he reflected,
lucky in making chance acquaintance with charming
creatures. And he had faith enough in his destiny to
believe that such a fortunate chance as this morning’s
might be improved upon.
HIS faith was justified. In one of the big glass
doors opening on to the.lower balcony of the
hotel building he almost collided with Mamma soon
after dinner that evening, and was so adroitly polite in
taking all the blame upon himself and in signifying
his grief and pain at such a happening that before
very long he and the square-jawed dowager were on
excellent terms —so excellent that when Miss Dimples
made her appearance he was approvingly introduced
and led to feel that his society was a blessing in
disguise, an oasis in the a thing for which
the two ladies were quite prepared to make him per-
manently welcome.
One matter, however, was greatly perturbing Mr.
Hardiman. For a bachelor engaged in travel, and
the incidental acquirement of a fair share of worldly
fortune, the Royal Hotel was as good an address as
he could have in Sydney—almost a better one than
Government House itself, since no section of society
could find fault with it on the grounds of an implied
superiority. In the famous George-street hostelry he
could meet with everybody on a condescendingly equal
footing.
But it was a sad fact that his funds were run-
ning very low and that he was not, to his regret, any
sort of a remittance man. Scorning to live in a fool’s
paradise, and disliking the idea of being cast forth
into Sydney when the weekly settlement of his
account became due, he had reckoned his resources
and had found that he could not survive at the Royal
for more than three days ere bankruptcy should over-
whelm him. It would be necessary, before Saturday—
and it was now Wednesday —to find himself some
remunerative employment, and it would also be very
necessary to practise some such form of providential
industry as backing a winner
at the races about that time.
There was no doubt that the
financial shoe was beginning
to pinch —to pinch very
uncomfortably.
In the later evening he
sat on the balcony between
Mrs. McGarrity and her
dimpled daughter Julia and
entertained the ladies with
personal reminiscences of
what the estimable matron
alluded to, with something
of awe, as ’lgh Life.
“You know, Mr. Hardi-
man,” she said to him after
a pause in the flow of his somewhat egoistic
eloquence, “I’ve me hown knowlidge o’ them sort o’
people too. Never ’ave I been too proud to mention
that I was second-cook in the town ’ouse o’ th’ Hearl
of ’Amborough. ’Twas there I met me dear Sam,
th’ late Mr. McGarrity, who was a footman with
th’ most beautiful pair o’ legs you hever cast heye
upon.”
“Oh, Mamma /” gently interposed the pretty
Julia.
“Be quiet, Judy. Yes, Mr. ’Ardiman, I always
says, and shall always say, the Quality’s the Quality,
an’ ’owever ’umble an’ lowly we may be, or ’owever
comf’ably horf, we owes a doo respec’ to ’em for
bein’ wot they is. That’s the reason I took to you,
sir—a-seein’ you was Quality y’self w’en we bumped
to-night at th’ drorin’-room door. You can always
tell. There’s somethink about blue blood as’ll take
no denyin’.”
“Haw, Mrs. McGarrity—dayvlish good of you to
say so, bai Jove! Ai do think that—haw —a leavening
of good people—people one might meet, you know —
would be vastly improving to the colonies. As Ai said
to his Excellency Sir John Young when presenting my
letter of introduction from Lord Avenish, the colonies
need tone and—haw —culchah. The people here are
quaite good people but that’s what they requiah.
Bai Jove, yes!”
So well did they agree that Mrs. McGarrity,
learning that Mr. Hardiman was compelled through
force of untoward circumstance to seek employment,
offered at the end of the evening to find him the
same, as manager of the hotel she was about to
open on the road between Lambing Flat and the
Lachlan diggings. She had disposed of a very good
business of the sort in Maitland with this intention,
since it was her settled conviction that more money
was to be made out of the travelling public on the
outskirts of the goldfields than might be looked for
in an older settled district.
“Yes,” she said, “I’ye picked me a place o’ my
hown choosin’ about twenty mile hout o’ Forbes,
w’ere there’s a very good ’ouse already standin’ in a
nice passel o’ land, with an orchud at th’ back an
a reg’lar stream o’ traffic between th’ two gol’fields
a-passin’ hup an’ down th’ road all day and all night.
With Julia’s looks, your gentlemanly ways, Mr. ’Ardi-
man, and my good bus’ness principles, the Snug
Retreat —as I’m a-goin’ to call it —should do really
well. Say the word, sir, an’ I’ll be ’appy to make you
an hadvance o’ sal’ry to clinch th’ deal an’ consider
th’ bus’ness settled —at three-pun-ten a week, with
free board, lodgin’ an’ washin’ gratis.”
With a tender
look at the delight-
ful Julia Mr.
Hardiman conde-
scended to accept
this offer ; and as
he slid between the
sheets a little later-
he remarked to
himself “Jimmy,
old fellah, you
must have a way
with you, bai
Jove! Six months’
free entertainment
at Segenhoe on the
Hunter, and now
—t his! And
dainty little Julia,
bai Jove, too!”
Mr. percival
LARRAP, of
Larrap, Larrap
and Son, solicitors,
who exposed their
brass plate
modestly at the
front door of a
rectangular house
at the corner of
Wynyard - square,
found himself to
be far from com-
fortably situated
on the top of the
coach that ran
twice a week from
Lambing Flat to
the Lachlan. Cheerfully indeed would he have walked
the remaining twenty miles or so that lay between
the present situation of the lumbering vehicle and
the town of Forbes.
He had left the primitive township now known
as Young at four o’clock in the morning with a ninety-
mile drive in front of him ere he should arrive at his
destination. The coach being full, and no seats avail-
able within or without, the obliging agent had allowed
him to ride on the rack with the mailbags.
“Hold on, Mister,” the official had warned him ;
“hold on as if you was a monkey on a ship’s
mast in a heavy sea. You’ll be glad I tole you so
before you get to Forbes.”
It was well that he had been so thoughtfully
warned, for some parts of the road were laid down
with logs of a thickness ranging between twelve and
eighteen inches. The first collision with the beginning
of a length of this terrible pavement meant a terrific
shock which nearly hurled him from his precarious
perch; and then would ensue a continuous bump,
bump/ bump for hundreds of yards until the bog or
swamp over which the “corduroy” had been stretched
was safely if laboriously negotiated.
Glad indeed was Mr. Larrap when the driver,
with a crack of his whip, announced in a cheerful
bellow: “Now, then, gents., we’re a-comin’ to Polly
McGarrity’s Snug Retreat, w’ere you can take a
stretch an’ a beer —or mebbe two beers. Th’ best
public along th’ road—on’y Polly’s away in Forbes
an’ th’ noochum she’s left in charge is on th’ spree.
But someone’ll sarve ye—so ye needn’t worry. My
colonial, but Mrs. Mac’s got a pretty gal—on’y ye
won’t see her, for she’s gone to town too.”
Mr. Larrap had come abroad looking for Mr.
Hardiman with the pleasant news that “something of


advantage” to that gentleman had arrived at Wynyard-
square, but, only vaguely knowing his client was to be
found somewhere on the southern or western gold-
fields, had been compelled to make personal search
for him and had started with Lambing Flat. He had
no idea that he was so near the end of his laborious
and fatiguing quest when the mail-coach drew up in
front of the pleasant-looking hostelry the driver had
so enthusiastically advertised. He clambered down
over the off hind wheel, painfully conscious that the
aches and pains and stiffness of all humanity had been
concentrated in his weary person. Holding his hat
in his hand, he was walking by the noses of the sweat-
ing leaders towards the window marked BAR when
he suddenly caught sight of the astonished expression
on the driver’s bearded face as he gazed into the inn
yard, which was situated at the end of the house, with
some stone stabling on the other side of it.
“Good Gawd!" he heard the man gasp out.
There s Ben Hall himself—and Johnny Gilbert and
Jack O’Meally. Here’s a go!”
/R. LARRAP halted and stared into the yard
through the big white gates, which were standing
open. What he saw astonished him beyond measure.
He could do nothing but stand and stare at it. The
tableau in the yard and the spoken dialogue were of
the most absorbing interest to Mr. Larrap, for one
of the principal actors in the play, apparently cast for
the part of a somewhat shamefaced and dejected
villain, was his young client Mr. James Hardiman!
There were three men on horseback—exceedingly
good horses, too —and two others on foot who were
evidently in mortal terror; and Mr. Hardiman was
one of these. A stout and buxom woman was setting
forth some sort of wrongs she had endured at the
hands of Mr. Hardiman and was addressing herself
to a rather tall, robust-looking man with a handsome,
frank face who wore a high felt hat and cord riding-
breeches and top-boots. This person Mr. Larrap
recognised, from descriptions he had read of him, as
Ben Hall. A slight, fair man, looking like a horse-
trainer, with a thin, fair moustache, and wearing a
cabbage-tree hat, breeches and boots, with one leg
crossed carelessly over the pommel of the saddle,
looked like Gilbert. A flash young bushman who
scowled at the two obvious delinquents—that, prob-
ably, was O’Meally.
“Yes, Mr. ’All,” the lady said, “I left this ’ere
Mr. Ardiman in charge w’en I went into Forbes last
week, a-takin’ Miss McGarrity with me, on business
I ’ad to see to. Day before yestiddy I come back, an’
—Lord save us! what d’ye think I found? I wouldn’t
never ’ave believed me hown heyes ’ad I not th’ proof
of it in th’ state o’ th’ till. There was jest seven
shilling an’ a ’alfpenny in it. That was all, I do
assure you solemnly.”
“Why, what had they been up to?” asked Hall.
What hadn’t they been hup to! An’ ’im such
a gent. —I could ’ave took me Bible oath to Mr.
’Ardiman’s genteelness. Why, they’d took to th’
drink ’im an’ this little rat of a stableman, Jimmy
O Toole an’ made good fellers o’ themselves be
keepin’ open ’ouse for all an’ sundry as comes along
th’ road. Me stock o’ wines, sperrits an’ ales is very
near done—not that there’s not a drop o’ th’ best for
you an’ y’r friends, Mr. ’AIl —an’ ’ardly a penny piece
to show for it. It’s simply been poured out like water,
it ’as. Down the throats of every Tom, Dick an’
’Arry for miles around. An’ plenty of it down their
own throats also. You’ve on’y got to look at ’em to
see as much as that. They’re fair soaked in grog—
they are indeed. And what in the name o’ goodness
do you think was the excuse they put up to me for
nigh all th’ stock bein’ gone an’ no money in th’ till
to show for it? Ye’d never believe it, that you
wouldn’t! ”
Ben Hall eyed the two shrinking culprits with
amused disfavor. “Well, Mrs. Polly, what had they
to say? I’d bet it was a pretty lame excuse from
the look of them.”
“It was th’ most impident thing I’ve ever ’eard
tell of, Mr. ’All. I’d not believe it for a single moment
■—knowin’ you gents, ’as always treated us decent and
on’y asks for to live an’ let live, so to speak. They
pitched me a tale as ’ow you gents, ’ad come ’ere with
pack’orses an’ taken off most o’ th’ bottled stuff,
w’ile ye’d shouted for all ’ands an’ made merry
gen’rally—makin’ them drink along with th’ rest o’
th’ people, though they didn’t want to.”
Young O’Meally drew his revolver and began to
curse with vehemence. “It’s such as you gets us a bad
name, your damned cheek! By cripes, I’ve a
pretty fair notion to put a bullet into you!”
Hall raised a hand to check his companion.
“That’ll do, Jack. Put that shooter away. And don’t
use such language, you flash young devil. There’s a
lady here, and Miss Judy can hear you from the
house. You keep quiet and leave this job to me. I’ll
knock the stuffing out of you afterwards if you don’t
behave yourself. Go on, Mrs. McGarrity.”
“Well, that there was too much for me, Mr. ’All.
Th > last stror. Says Ito meself, ‘l’ll fix ye, me gentle-
men —I’ll fix ye proper!’ So I sent for young Mick
Gilshinnan and got ’im to find ye and ask ye for to
ride down to th’ Snug Retreat so’s I might confront
em with you gents., whose characters they’ve took
away. That’s all. I’ll leave ’em to you, Mr. ’All an’
Mr. Gilbert. But I don’t think Jack O’Meally ought
for to deal with ’em. He’d be a bit severe, like.”
“Vurry good of you, Missus,” said Gilbert in his
slightly American accent —he was a Canadian by
birth. “We’re sure obliged to you! Well, what’ll
we do with the cows, Ben? They don’t deserve for
us to be very gentle with them. This English
Johnny-come-lately— I guess he’s th’ leadin’ spirit,
don’t you? Pers’nally, I think he ought to be hung
up by the ankles to let a little blood run into his thick
head. He’d look well hanging upside-down in that
apple-tree across the road with them long whiskers
a-blowin’ in the breeze. Fine he’d look like that.
Don’t you think so?”
OEFORE Ben Hall could express an opinion as to
sentence Mr. Larrap walked hastily into the yard.
He was about to speak when the driver of the coach
hailed Ben Hall.
“Hi, Ben,” he cried, “you’ll not be wantin’ me
any longer, will yer? I’ve got me time-book for to
think of.”
“It’s all right, Tom,” the bushranger responded.
“You can trot along. Hullo, there!” he said to Mr.
Larrap. “What do you want? Don’t you see this
is a private affair, Mister between us and Mrs.
McGarrity?’
“It’s all right, Hall. You’ll not remember me,
but I once defended your father, over on the Murru-
rundi side, over a little matter of some cleanskins
he’d found. I hope you won’t mind me saying
a word or two now, will you?”
“Well, I don’t know about that. Who
are you, anyway?”
“My name’s Larrap, of Larrap, Larrap
and Son, attorneys-at-law, and I was going
on to Forbes to make inquiries about this gentleman
about Mr. Hardiman here. I merely beg of you
not to deal with him too severely—he’s new to the
country and hasn’t much sense, like most newchums.
1 hope you won’t be hard on him. And there is
another thing, Mr. Hall.”
“Well, out with it. But the dog deserves a hiding
with a stockwhip at the very least. What have you
got to say?”
“Don’t you think that if Mr. Hardiman pays
damages and a fairly substantial fine—which would,
of course, go to you gentlemen for the trouble you’ve
been put to don’t you think the matter could be
settled in some such fashion as this?”
“Damn him!” growled O’Meally. “You leave
him to me, Ben. Gimme a stockwhip and I’ll guaran-
tee to fix him up good and proper.”
“Shut up, Jack,” said Gilbert. “Leave it to Ben.”
“Well, but, Mr. Larrap, this chap’s only been
getting two or three quid a week from Mrs. Polly
here.”
“Oh, but you see I happen to be his solicitor, and
I’ve come to the goldfields to inform him that advices
have been received by my firm in Sydney to say that
he has inherited a fairly substantial legacy under the
will of his aunt, Miss Lavinia Hardiman, who died
in England some three months ago. I’m sure that
my client, in order to obviate any—er—unpleasant-
ness, would be quite prepared to do the handsome
thing in recompense for his little error in judgment.
I’m certain he would.”
Ben Hall was smiling broadly as he swung round
in the saddle to address Gilbert.
“How does that idea strike you, Johnny?” he
asked. “What’d you say would be a fair thing for
Mrs. McGarrity to ask, supposing we agree to let the
fellow off the way this gentleman reckons’d be right?”
“Oh, I don’t know, Ben. But I dare say a matter
o’, say, five hundred pounds ought to cover the damage
to the missus’s stock o’ grog. But then there’s us to
be considered too.”
“Oh, of course, Mr. Gilbert,” hastily interjected
the lawyer. “Would a similar amount do you gentle-
men? A thousand pounds in all. A large sum of
money, of course, but under the circumstance I think
my client would be only too delighted to fall in with
the suggestion I have made. Don’t you think you
would, Mr. Hardiman?”
It was a very feeble voice with which Mr. Lar-
rap’s client gave assent to the terms of his ransom,
and his words were few but to the point.
“Bai Jove!” he said huskily. “I quaite agree
with you, Larrap—quaite. Bai Jove, yes.”
“But there’s another thing, sir,” came a demure
and musical voice from a window in the end of the
house.
They turned to see Miss Julia’s dimples peeping
from between the muslin blinds. She waved a little
hand and shook her ringlets at Mr. Hardiman.
“James, dear—don’t let him forget our marriage
settlement,” she said with a happy laugh. “We are
engaged to be married, gentlemen. I’m sure you wish
to be liberal in the matter, don’t you, James?”
“Oh, bai Jove, yes!” assented Mr. Hardiman
fervently.
“Well, I’ll be damned!” swore Johnny Gilbert
softly.
“Yes, Mr. Hall,” the lady said, “they're fair soaked in grog—they are indeed.”


A Serial Story of the Queensland Coast
By
VANCE PALMER
ILLUSTRATED BY
CLAIRE DALLEY.
Chapter VII.
/.
«ggggjggj]ETEß JENSEN’S business was going down-
hill. The inevitable collapse was not plain
8 |P I to the old man himself, because he rarely
jj toCKj looked at things beyond the range of his
SJlsil fhick-lensed glasses. It was pleasanter to
keep his eyes on the immediate view, to live
in the job on hand at the moment, and there were still
contracts to be had by anyone who would tender low
enough. He had no expectations now of making a
fortune and dazzling his old school-mates with his
wealth when he took a trip home to Denmark. That
ambition had held his nose closely to the grindstone
once, made him the ideal immigrant, one who was
content to work long hours for small profits and
refrain from criticising those who raked off the big
ones. But it had long faded.
“I won’t ever be as rich as what I was t’irty year
ago, the time I did all that building along the
esplanade. It don’t matter. Money —it never keep
me awake now.”
Life in an easy climate, amid genial surroundings,
had stimulated his social sense, sapped his interest
in adding one shilling to another. Besides, what was
the good of making an impression on people who
had probably forgotten your very name? It might
be that most of the girls and boys he had grown up
with were under the earth. Anyway, they would be
wrapped up in their ailments or their grandchildren.
He no longer wanted to go back, even for a visit.
A bad thing for his business, this slow perishing
of the ambitious immigrant in him. He was inclined
to live from hand to mouth now, not worrying about
the debts that hung over his head as long as the men
he had gathered round him were kept in work.
He knew all there was to be known about cheap
tendering. Neil, sitting in the little office under the
stairs, helping him prepare his costs, was alarmed by
his instinct to cut a pound or two off this, a few
shillings off that. “Going a little near the bone,
aren’t you, Peter?”
“Eh?”
“I’ve been checking these bills for timber from
the mills. They won’t leave you much in the way of
profit. It strikes me you’re going a little near the
bone.”
The old man grinned, made a gesture with his
hands. “They all go near the bone: I got to cut it
fine. Contracts, they come to the man who leave the
least meat for himself. You think they take my
tender because of the good work I put into Sweeney’s
Hotel or the new building in Hunter-street? No fear.
I’m old Peter, the man who can cut the cost down
so low no one else can live with him. That’s how
I’m kept going.”
Impatience showed in Neil’s eyes. All very well,
these happy-go-lucky ways of Peter’s, till you saw
the result in figures. Then they struck you as sheer
playing for time, feeding the following sharks with
little bits of your own flesh. “Not much good in
being kept going if there’s no profit on the contracts.
You admit you’ve lost money on more than one
lately.”
The old man blinked, rubbed his glasses with a
soiled handkerchief. “Might be. We all make a
mistake in costing now and then. And when you cut
the plank too narrow it’s not easy to get safe over.
But the men, they get their wages all right. Because
I slip I don’t bring anyone else down with me.”
“That’s all very well, but you’re not setting out
to be a philanthropist, Peter. In business, like any-
one else, for profit, aren’t you? And there’s no need
to worry about the men. If they don’t get jobs from
you they will from someone else.”
“Perhaps —perhaps not. Anyway, I like to keen
my own crowd together. ‘You stick to me,’ I tell
them, ‘and you won’t go short of work. And they
stick—some of them for more than twenty year now.
No man leave me yoost when I want him because
another builder offer him more pay.”
Complacency shone from his eyes, enwrapped
his short, squat figure. He was prouder of the loyalty
of the half-dozen men who worked for him regularly
than of the many buildings that stood to his credit.
It was the sentimentalist in him showing out, the part
of him that idealised the memory of Sanderson because
of the job given him fifty years before. No theories
of surplus value or the nature of industrial conflict
touched his mind. His aim was to be the benevolent
employer, paying full union wages, working with his
men when it was possible, living on terms of equalitv
with them. If all bosses acted like that there would
be no labor troubles!
And a man had no need to worry much about
those who came after him. Not in this country.
No, you don’t have to make your eyes ache looking
too’ far ahead: you only got to plant trees you’ll see
come to fruit. Children, they don’t expect to have
a fortune handed down to them. If this business pass
out when I do, no one ain’t going to worry.”
“Maybe,” admitted Neil, “but we’re not looking
as far ahead as that. What if the Northern Timber
Mills come down on you and make you bankrupt?
That may happen any time now. You’re owing them
a pretty big debt.”
The old man chuckled. “The Northern Timber
Mills that is Keith Macready. A sharp man of
business, with plenty brains in his head. Your cousin,
my boy.”
“So I’ve been told. But I’ve never come across
him: I’m never likely to. Not much chance of the
connection proving any use to you, Peter.
“You think I expect that? No fear. I have
another pull with them, a pull that will keep them
from pressing me too hard. They would sooner 1
owe them money than not, for then I must deal with
them. No matter what the price of timber is or the
quality. Oh, yes, they are not fools to kill the goose
that lay the golden egg.”
His blue, faded eyes twinkled behind their glasses.
It was as if he took an impish pleasure in being the
indispensable goose. He knew the mills could not do
without him. And while he was in their debt there
was a chance that the big men connected with the
company would see that he got his share of any
public contracts that were being advertised. Old
Peter! We can’t let him go under.
Meanwhile he lived well, and there was always
an open door at his house, a full supply of whisky in
the decanter on the sideboard. He boasted that all
the tradespeople knew his fondness for good food, and
that even at Cayley’s one couldn’t get such tender cuts
of steak, such fresh vegetables, such full-flavored fruit
as at his table.
WHAT could you do with such a man? Neil,
struggling with figures in the room under the
stairs, felt that the responsibility of saving the business
lay on his shoulders, but he was overpowered by
Peter’s easy optimism, his refusal to admit that any-
thing was wrong. It was only a sudden failing of his
sight that had made him willing to accept help with
the accounts. He had been suffering with blight when
he came back from the Sharon River, and had been
forced to lie for a couple of weeks in a darkened
room: there was still a watery, bleached look about
his eyes.
Maddening, this instinct of Peter’s to stick his
head into the sand! Even before taking over the
accounts Neil had heard jokes about the old man at
Courtney’s and along the waterfront. Most of the
loungers there were interested in building and knew
the figures of every public tender: they were sardonic
about Peter’s efforts to underbid his rivals. Some
mill’s carrying the old boy. It’s a damned risky ride
for him, if he only knew it. One of these days the
weight’ll become too heavy and he 11 be dropped with
a splash.”
They could discuss such a prospect with indif-
ference. There were always businesses being wiped
out, little tradesmen coming croppers: it had no
effect on the number of jobs going. But Neil had
an uneasy sense of all he owed to Peter since the old
man had picked him up that afternoon at the Crown
and Anchor. There was growing in him, too, a hatred
of insecurity, an itch to see any enterprise he was
interested in placed on a sound footing. This living
for the day only!
Now that winter was over he had time on his
hands, leisure to look ahead. The Kestrel had earned
good money for him and Besanck, but a restlessness
had begun to show in Leo’s eyes, a faint boredom with
the life to which he had committed himself. He had
discovered a countryman of his growing bananas at
the head of the estuary: he spent most of his time at
the place, moved out to sea again with reluctance.
And fantastic notions were always buzzing through
his head. He pored over charts, sketched out absurd
plans for taking the Kestrel to Java, Timor, the South
Sea Islands. Why let themselves be tied to one spot
when there were so many interesting places to be
explored? The possession of a boat meant freedom.
Why not use it to the full, no matter what the risks
were?
Waywardness and irresponsibility! How could
you manage to keep a level head in such a flighty
world? Neil, moving backwards and forwards
between Jensen’s and the boat, felt himself a sober
draught-horse in a paddock of skittish colts, his eyes
used to blinkers, his feet planted heavily on the
earth.
Even Freda, who had been coming home oftener
lately, brushed aside his doubts about Peter s future as
lightly as the old man himself. “Don’t worry, Sandy.
Remember what killed the cat. Why should you
bother whether Peter’s solvent or not if it came to a
showdown?” „
“Doesn’t it seem of any importance to you/
“Not a great deal. What matters is the way he
takes things himself. I’d sooner see him plunging
ahead carelessly than brooding over channels and
landmarks. He’s been in the neighborhood of the
rocks ever since I can remember: he’s never hit
them. I’ve come to believe he’s unsinkable.
“That’s playing with words, Freda. Dodging the
need for facing things out. In business you can t
just trust to luck: you’ve got to look at the figures.
Her eyes rested on him a moment, became
reflective, kindled with an ironic flash. “Since when
have you become a businessman, Sandy?
He said doggedly “It doesn’t take much experi-
ence to know two and two don’t make five. Peter s
been adding up the wrong way for donkey’s years in
making out his tenders. And then he’s getting old. it
THE STORY SO FAR . . .
Chris Sanderson, “ex-scrub-worker,
-contractor, -Cabinet Minister, undis-
charged bankrupt —a hell of a lot of
other things as well,” dies in Port Cowrie,
a North Queensland coastal town. Neil,
his son—they had met only once since
Neil was a youngster —buys a boat, the
Kestrel, and takes up fishing. Besanck,
whom he met in a cane-cutters’ camp,
goes in with him as partner.
Other characters are: —
Laura Clune, who runs Cayley’s, a
large new tourist hotel in Port Cowrie,
Corcoran, sub-editor of the Port
Cowrie “Times,”
Peter Jensen, an old Swedish car-
penter and boat-builder —he built the
Kestrel —and contractor who worked for
Sanderson in the early days, and
Freda, Jensen’s daughter.
There are increasing signs of a break
between Neil and Besanck.


anything happened to him now there’d be a rotten
tangle. I’m thinking of you and Anna.”
For a moment her face became hard as flint.
“Oh, you needn’t trouble about Anna. She’s got
swarms of relations. All with comfortable cane-
farms and a good, strong family sense. Besides, she
keeps a little money of her own tied up carefully in
a stocking.”
“Well, there’s you.”
“As if I had to be considered! Thank you for
nothing, Sandy.”
'’THERE was an aggressiveness, Neil felt, something
1 militant and pointed, in her unwillingness to take
her father’s affairs seriously. Why poke into what
doesn’t concern you? her eyes seemed to say. This
habit of playing grandmother!
Lately, on her sudden trips to town, she had been
hard to get on with, now moody and wrapped up in
herself, now reckless, gay, embittered, provoking Anna
into bleak silences, making even her father uncom-
fortable. The things that had once absorbed her no
longer roused her interest. Her own friends, she
complained, had deserted her. Katie was becoming
intimate with the Macready crowd and gushed over
Keith’s children, Julie Duggan’s new house. Lucia
had gone away nursing to a country hospital.
“I hate teaching,” she told Neil rebelliously. “I
was decoyed into it by a soapy old spinster who was
always looking out for proselytes. A vixen who’d
lost her tail. Now I feel I’ve been trapped, too. I
ought to have gone into a jam-factory, taken up some
work that wouldn’t make me feel a humbug.”
He found her flickers of mood, her flashes of
bitterness, hard to comprehend. After agreeing to
come out with him to a dance she would suddenly
change her mind and go off for the evening to her
room. Or she would impetuously throw in her hand
at a game and wander off alone
to sit on the breakwater. There
was a murky glow about her eyes,
a look of something smouldering.
How different from the girl who
had sprawled with him a year
ago on the sands at Bustard Heads,
from the girl who had come
clambering aboard the Kestrel at
Tern Island! It was as if she
were being tormented by some
inner devil.
No wonder Anna said dry
things after she had gone back
on Monday mornings. “Tempera-
ment! I suppose one must be
charitable and call it that.”
She was serene in the know-
ledge of having none herself.
Unmoved by any troublesome
gusts of feeling, she could sit
back watching people around her
with critical eyes, pricking their
enthusiasms with a frosty word,
bringing them to earth with a
smile. Her chilly commonsense
had little effect upon Peter. He
could take it as a fixed feature
in the landscape, jolly her about
it, draw out the affection that lay
beneath its dull surface. After
fifteen years of married life they
had reached a basis of understand-
ing.
But the two women had made
up their minds about each other
from the beginning, when Anna,
weighted with German ideas of
discipline, had come to the house
to find it being run by a freakish
child of nine: and nothing could
erase the memory of those early
conflicts. It raised its head, pro-
ducing a state of tension, whenever
they were in a room together. As
soon as Freda began to bubble a
look of stoical resignation always
settled on Anna’s face.
“I can stand this,” her eyes said. “It’ll soon be
over.”
K] EIL was more comfortable with the old people
when Freda was away. He enjoyed Peter’s wan-
dering talk at the table, enjoyed the way Anna showed
a sober concern about his comfort while they washed-
up the dishes in the kitchen. A shirt of his had been
lost in the wash: would she get him a couple of new
ones? He would need plenty of changes now the
warm weather was coming. There was a sort of fuji
at Langley’s, light but hard-wearing
He looked up one evening when they were thus
engaged to see Freda at the door, suitcase in hand,
her eyes gleaming with dour enjoyment in her travel-
stained face. She said nothing till Anna had gone
olt into the garden, and then she turned on him
abruptly. “You really like her to fuss over you that
way, Sandy?”
He was taken aback by the heat in her voice,
the impatient movement of her shoulders. “Why
shouldn’t I? I’d be a hog if I wasn’t grateful. When
a man’s knocking around, out in all weathers, it’s
jolly satisfying to have someone looking after his
clothes.”
“Mothering him and seeing that he always wears
flannel next his skin?”
“You think I’ve been in danger of being spoilt
like that these last few years?”
“Don’t be too beastly proud of what you’ve been
through, Sandy.”
“I’m not. When have I ever boasted of it?”
“A man who thinks he’s been up against the
world is liable to mortgage everything he values for
a bit of comfort. Go soft in the wrong places.”
“All this because Anna chooses to look after my
clothes.”
“She’s never offered to look after mine. But I
mustn’t be cranky. If you’ve a real hankering after
that sort of attention”
He had a sudden feeling that she would think
more of him if, instead of helping Peter with his
accounts, washing-up for Anna, he spent his time
with the other men at the Crown and Anchor, drink-
ing, indulging in wild horseplay, holding his own in
any quarrels that arose.
He was exasperated with her, with himself.
Something, he vaguely suspected, had gone wrong in
their relations from the beginning. She thought of
him as a tame cat hanging about a house. She had
never seen him in action, taking charge of the boat
in a gale, rapping out orders to Leo and Charlie when
the anchor-chain snapped and there was danger of
having the hull ripped up on the coral. He was
merely one of the family to her, a sort of brother.
It was Guthrie. “Hardest thing on earth to get rid of a body,” he said. “Something always left”
“Knock that idea out of her head. Begin over
again,” a voice urged him as he watched her averted
face, the line running from chin to breast.
Yet there was confusion in the feelings she roused
in him. She attracted him, filled him with distrust,
dazzled him, left him cold. She was disturbingly
mixed up with his affection for old Peter.
//.
44 OU’VE come to a dead-end,” Freda was telling
\ J herself as she sat curled up on a chair in her
y bedroom. “Fences closing in around you at
C every turn. There’s no escape for you this
way: it was only one of your fantasies. Perhaps the
year won’t be wasted if it’s shown you that.”
In a silence that was profound since the Guthries
had turned off their wireless she remained staring at
the shaded bulb, the pages she had written with such
verve strewn around her, some on the table, some on
the floor. Lifeless as withered leaves they seemed now
that she had read them over. Yet they had left
disturbing echoes in the room. Her own voice came
back to her in affected tones from behind the
mosquito-net, from the squat idol on the dressing-
table, from the tallboy near the door. The eyes of
Lane, Dimitrov, Rosa Luxembourg looked down
coldly from the wall.
“No escape for you this way,” they repeated.
“What you want ... dialectical rebirth. It’s not
merely a question of talent: you have first to find
reality in yourself. Those exaggerated gestures. That
absorption in petty personalities particularly your
own.”
She humbly accepted the verdict. No use pro-
testing when confronted with those clear, impersonal
eyes that acted as a conscience for her. They were
right: it wasn’t merely a question of talent. This
Christine of hers: she hadn’t been able to cut the
threads that bound the creature to herself, set her
moving on her own path. Christine? It would have
been more honest to call her Freda. Yet was she really
like that, elbowing everyone else away to take the
centre of the stage, rattling
on with sham liveliness,
exposing her emotional
emptiness with every word?
A marionette jerked about
by impulses that came
('Continued on page 50,)


work in his own country. It may be answered that
he prefers other countries and other services; but
can that be the whole answer?
D. P. MCGUIRE.
Prize-winning Novels.
The Street of the Fishing Cat, by Jolanda Foldes
(Angus and Robertson ; 65.), is the all-nations winner
of a £4OOO international novel competition. The story
deals with the experiences of a Hungarian furrier’s
family and a number of political refugees of almost
every European nationality, living in a cul-de-sac in
the slums of Paris.
It is a middling good novel, but no more than
that. In selecting and presenting the individuals of
her international swarm the writer gives the impres-
sion of having been at pains to remember all the
races of mankind and to offend none. The main
theme of the book, childhood and adolescence in the
slums, has been done before and with more force.
Nothing seems to matter very much, probably because
the writer, to get all her incidental matter in, has
had to chop everything up small. The refugee’s
pathetic belief that the pre-revolutionary social order
will be restored in his native land is exhibited, but
the point has been made in more earnest and effective
novels. This book, by comparison, is a mere flurry
of chaff.
The Valley of the Sky, by Tarlton Rayment
(Angus and Robertson ; 65.), is the British Empire
prize-winner in the same competition. It is a romance
of pioneering in Gippsland. Angus McMillan, the
hero, stalks through the pristine scene in full Scottish
regalia, making firm and lifelong friends with the
aborigines, uttering impeccable sentiments in broad
Scottish, refusing the loan of dusky wives, and in all
ways giving an improving exhibition of white nobility.
The writer has obviously had considerable amusement
in reproducing Angus’s kailyard dialect. The villain
is Angus’s partner, the Englishman, Reginald St.
Claire, who tries —but how unavailingly!—to deprive
him of his just portion when Angus decides to dis-
solve the partnership. Mavis St. Claire is no better.
In the absence of her husband she tries to seduce
Angus. The offer is gently but firmly declined.
Angus is faithful to the thought of his Scottish sweet-
heart, who is on her way to join him. Her name is
Winsome.
Among other events there are a droving trip and
a shipwreck—in the course of which Angus’s life is
saved, pathetically enough, by a young gin whose
loving advances he had sternly repulsed. Then comes
an invasion of Angus’s lands by free settlers, men from
the worn-out goldfields. Most of them are riff-raff,
but there are a few rough diamonds, and one is a
gentleman of breeding. He proves it by telling
Winsome at first meeting that he knows a lady when
he sees one and by calling her Madam Pretty One —
her “native name” —before he leaves. The writer
evidently believes that a little facetiousness and senti-
ment do not come amiss in a book written in the
romantic vein ; he pokes some fun at Angus from
time to time and utters tender words at appropriate
places, but the main thing is that he is ever alert to
illumine human worth. Angus—except that his broad
jests bring blushes to Winsome’s cheeks on their
wedding day —is more than a good man ; he is a
diagram of all the virtues.
Tarlton Rayment was inspired to write this book
by the large part taken by the Celts in pioneering
Australia and by one Angus McMillan in particular,
but he says in a foreword: “Lest any imagine that
an overweening national pride rides my pen, I hasten
to point out that no Scottish blood circulates within
my veins.”
Tragedy in Ireland.
The Celtic Renaissance, which began in fairy
plays, Irish legends and folk tales, passed to the
romanticism of Donn Byrne, and now it has its feet
firmly set in the passionate realism of Sean O’Casey
and Liam O’Flaherty.
In his latest book, Famine (Gollancz ; 10s. 6d.),
O’Flaherty has put aside the one-man stories for which
he became famous in The Informer and The Assassin
and gives us a group novel. It is a story not of the
individual but of famine itself; famine laying waste
a province, reducing everyone to the common likeness
of want and despair.
It is set in Ireland 90 years ago, at the time
when the potato blight robbed the peasantry of their
staple food. To live, they began to eat their stock,
till landlords, seeing the only security for their
rent vanishing, seized what was left. The people
were thus stripped of both their present means of
subsistence and all future hope of recovery. The
Government promised relief and withheld it. Des-
perate, the peasantry rioted and were put under
martial law. Hunger brought disease and barbarism,
and a cruel night settled down over Ireland. Such are
the scene and the story of O’Flaherty’s novel, which
is told in exact and trenchant detail. It is not in the
usual sense a period novel; its values in suffering and
courage are eternal. We are near enough to a period
of acute distress for it to have plenty of point to-day.
You feel that all the characters are reduced by pressure
of circumstance to their essential selves.
The range of characters is very wide. They are
typical and yet intensely individual the absentee
landlord’s agent, whose loneliness and twisted mind
express themselves in a violence and cruelty that has
a pitiful side ; the miserly shopkeeper, who makes a
fortune out of the famine ; the doctor, who is neither
of the people nor of the gentry and oscillates painfully
between the two ; the parson, full of goodwill and
desire to help but powerless and half-crazed by loneli-
ness ; the perplexed priest and his militant curate ;
the peasants;, and others. The lives of all these are
transcribed with a living exactness that is an achieve-
ment in itself.
The action of the book is a little disjointed, as
in real life, being probably, in the main, taken from
records. It has a wild and midnight quality ; it is
black tragedy, rare in these days of nicely-balanced
books. A streak of madness runs through its explicit
realism—the madness of Patsy Hernon, of old Kate,
the wise woman, of Chadwick, of poor, crazed, under-
nourished children, the major madness of a world of
plenty where men starved. But its grimness is illu-
minated by the goodness of Martin Kilmartin, the
steadfastness of Mary, his young wife, the kindness
and sanity of old Brian under his roughness, the
neighborliness of Sally O’Hanlon. Beyond all the
sorrow and distress, like a jewel in the mire, there
is Ireland. “Learn to love the Irish earth as your
real mother,” whispered the curate. “Then it will
speak to you and tell you deep things and beautiful
things that are stronger than misfortune. ’
Changer of the World.
It may be an indication that the novel is returning
to prime favor after partial eclipse by biography that
Richard Oke’s publisher puts forth his new book, The
Boy from Apulia (Arthur Barker; 10s. 6d.), as a
novel. It is a reconstruction, scholarly and dramatic,
of the life of the Emperor Frederick 11., Changer of
the World, and of his times, the first half of the
thirteenth century. If a difference between a novel
and an authentic biography is that in the former
truth and accuracy are sacrificed to effectiveness and
fact is edited into a more comely, plausible and
attractive shape than life left it, then this is no novel;
it has the true shape of history. If the addition of
a creative imagination to the usual tools of scholarship
makes of the historian a novelist, then The Boy from
Apulia is a novel, for it is history illuminated by a
creative artist’s understanding.
The book covers the period from Frederick’s
birth on December 26, 1194, till his death on Decem-
ber 13, 1250, but the time factor is the least of its
boundaries. At the beginning of the thirteenth century
a world was coming and a world was going.
The age was perhaps still dark; but everywhere,
amid the flash and flicker of knightly steel and monastic
candles which hitherto alone and ill had lit the world,
gleamed the first rays of a luminary which would one
day blaze with the splendors of the renaissance.
The feudal world, with its arbitrary, ever-
changing loyalties, its knightly code, its hierarchic
outlook, was giving way before a new spirit of
nationality and a radical conception of the State.
Learning was becoming secular once more. The age
of piety was waning; the age of commerce was
dawning. The burgher class was steadily outfacing
chivalry ; the vernacular was dispossessing Latin as
the language of the poets. The framework of the old
world still stood with its pomp and magnificence ; the
new world had not yet worked out a ritual for itself.
Men still went on crusades, but with different motives.
Dynastic nets were still woven, but they could no
longer hold power. A new image of life was forcing
its way to the surface.
It is the drama of change, so significant to us
to-day, that is the theme of the book. It finds its
focus in the life and character of Frederick, who was,
paradoxically, the highest expression of both the old
and the new in his age. He was the champion of
the State against feudalism; he gave the Roman
Empire a Constitution. His attitude was rational,
modern, even scientific. He trusted to statecraft
rather than arms. He connected Latin culture with the
learning of the East and the Jews. Yet all his life
he played the curious, subtle and involved game of
mediaeval diplomacy which life had already left
stranded in artificiality.
Frederick, the boy from Apulia, is much more
than a symbol or an illustration. His life, as Oke
relates it, is as vivid, dramatic and crowded as any
history offers; a first-class story. His career was
continually spectacular. As a child, the Pope’s ward,
he ran wild on the streets of Palermo and was fed
by chance charity. At fifteen he married a princess
of Aragon, widow of the King of Hungary, for her
500 Aragonese knights, with whom he hoped to
conquer the Empire. The knights died of plague, and
Frederick marched north with a handful of followers
and, by an amazing mixture of diplomacy, military
genius and personal charm, won his empire.
Great power worked on Frederick’s character ;
from the brilliant and engaging boy he became a
tyrant, embittered by treachery and consumed by
pride until he saw himself as the Emperor-Messiah
and proclaimed his divinity, calling the little town
Jesi, where he was born, “Our Bethlehem.”
His third wife was Isabella, daughter of John
of England. Before he died in his fifty-sixth year
Frederick had already become something of a
patriarch, parcelling his world out among his fifteen
sons, four of whom were illegitimate, and his
daughters’ husbands. With his death the whole
shining edifice fell to pieces. Only his legend, his
laws and his book on falconry which is still an
authority—lived after him.
The Boy from Apulia is not long—a matter of
318 pages. It has the slightly formal layout of a
history with its numbered sections, genealogical trees
and lists of authorities. The style is terse and demands
the reader’s full attention, but it has, too, a sort of
truncated splendor about it. Oke is aware of the
bearing his story often has on the present, but he
never stresses it unduly. He does not deflect his sub-
ject into a political tract. He is content with it as it
is. His book is most satisfactorily complete.
Medical Debunking.
While nobody trusts the amateur lawyer, elec-
trician or plumber, most of us gratefully accept
medical counsel from the unqualified doctor or nurse
next door. Thus is to be explained the enormous
accretion of superstition and mistaken belief about
the healing art which, though born in the brain of
the witch-doctor and the old wife during the infancy
of mankind, is still the basis of most lay opinion on
health and disease. In Australia the quack still
flourishes.
What savant is responsible, I wonder, for the
dogma that bluebottle stings cease to trouble at
sundown? Or that a pinch of salts, swallowed before
breakfast, will chase rheumatism out of the human
body with dramatic certainty? Or that people who
leap from Sydney Harbor Bridge die, not from injury
or drowning, but from suffocation on the way to the
water? Or that a doctor who drinks hard enough
inevitably acquires the wisdom of and is
likely to perform his most brilliant surgical feats
when dragged from the pub to the operating theatre
by force? Or that women imperil their lives by
washing their hair and feet at ill-considered times?
The finest debunking of these and allied doctrines
to reach print so far is Dr. August A. Thomen’s
Don’t Believe It, Says the Doctor (Angus and Robert-
son). Thomen is lecturer in medicine at New York
University, and. if his lectures have the verve and
swing of his writing he must be worth hearing. In
his book is collected in one astounding mass all the
flapdoodle about life, sickness and death which has
accumulated since the first medicine-man hung out
his shingle; and Thomen demolishes the ancient
balderdash in 329 pages of clear explanation.
To wear earrings, for instance, does not make
for acuity of vision ; red flannel has no special virtue
as material for underwear ; a sleeper in the moonlight
does not wake up to find himself a chattering maniac
who must be borne off screaming to the nearest
mental hospital; flowers, placed in a sick-room, do
not distil deadly vapors at night; the scratch of a
rusty nail is not lethal.
Thomen’s book is an encyclopaedia of this kind
of thing, and many of the superstitions he examines
will be new to Australian readers or, indeed, to any
who have not visited the remoter parts of Pennsyl-
vania and Kentucky. The book is full of chuckles,
yet no doctor can read it without a sigh. The 130-
odd pages on fallacies about cancer, for one thing,
are a testimony to the suffering that colossal ignor-
ance and quackery can produce in relation to the most
terrible of human ills.
F.J. BRIDGES.
Reviewed Briefly.
FICTION . . .
The Secret of Ayanora; Basil Carey (Robert Hale,
7s. 6d.). Love and adventure in the South Seas, with
a stolen golden chalice to take the place of buried
treasure. Conventional, but written with the vigor
of conviction, considerable narrative skill and some
regard for style.
The Emperor of the Ants; Luigi Bertelli, trans-
lated from the Italian by Nicola Di Pietro (Angus
and Robertson; 65.). A fantasy in which a boy,
Gigino, wishes he were an ant and has his wish
fulfilled. Follow some natural history and some
wars in the ant world —Black ants against Red ants
—with the Black ants, under Gigino’s generalship,
winning all along the line. Moral a little above the
heads of adolescence. Story a little beneath the
notice of adults.
Full and By; David Stanley Livingstone (Faber
and Faber; 7s. 6d.). The last voyage of an old
American coastal sailing vessel, doomed to sink and
kept afloat only by masterly seamanship. She loses
her rudder on some rocks in a fog off Newfoundland,
but the skipper manages to steer a course with the
sails. The writer has a convincing knowledge of
ships and sailors. The crew, from the skipper to Koos,
the cook, are worth meeting. An attempted murder
keeps interest on the jump.
GENERAL ...
Two Boys Go Sailing; Conor O’Brien (Dent;
65.) Adventures of two boys small-boat sailing off
the south coast of Ireland. Exploration, boatraces,
hermits, buried treasure and a girl named Podge who
can outsail them both at a pinch. Good of its kind.
The blurb says: “For readers from ten to fourteen
years.”
\r Public Enemy No. 1, by Fred Davison (Aus-
tralian Authors’ Publishing Co. ; copy from Gordon
and Gotch). This is a political pamphlet in the
guise of a novel, and the burden of its song
is the villainy of the banks, which corrupt news-
paper proprietors and members of Parliament, engi-
neer economic depressions for their private profit,
and burke discussion of their iniquities. One coula
wish the indictment were true —it would so vastly
simplify the many social problems that confront this
century. But the Great Depression, which com-
menced in the U.S.A., descended not because of but
in spite of the banks, which carried on a policy o
price stabilisation to the last possible moment, lha.
is conceded by G. D. H. Cole, a Socialist, an .Ox or
trained economist and an advocate of the nationalisa-
tion of banking. Mr. Davisom seems to have go.
most of his notions from Major Douglas, or
H. T. N. Gartskell, another Oxford economist, ais
a firm believer in nationalised banking, says he mus
be regarded as a religious rather than a scien i
reformer.” Mr. Davison’s panacea for all social
—the equipment of a State’s Government with un-
limited power to create money out of a pnnuns
press and a bale of paper—has been tried many
and has always ended in sheer disaster.


S } \A>Vv<YA\N v A>*\\
»,.■»! *'■>'?
*im
fSRRIIVnSr^
mm
m
!a
1
Z 7
sss
111
il
IS;
:
S
KSSS
: -t:
Hii
H
SSSK
SSiWSfift
1 ■
111111 l
lill
THREE
THREES"
are 9 For 6d
—the reason for the amazing popularity of State Express 333 is
the 333 s blend—of course! And 333's are nine for only sixpence.
The secret blend of Three-Threes has popularized quality as
quality was never popularized before. Smoke Three-Threes—
cork-tipped or plain; fourfold wrapped for freshness always.
I
SS
CORK-
TIPPED
OR PLAIN
7860-10-5
VIRGINIA CIGARETTES
9-6 d : 18-1/-
27 - 1/6
Alsp Flat 50s, Flat
100 s, and Round Air
tight 50s.


ROYAL
PURPLE
PAR t
■
%
1' -■>•■
■ r~'^'**^rrsr-vr
-i
‘ "VI jjt* > <?* v V
<Ak ...
\T~« m*»<m
mm.
.<«***
;;,a w ; %a*>
.
■***«*^.
nu
h ■■
&*ft *r I
? <
Some o/ f/ie wine-filled casks to be placed in one of the huge storage cellars.
j 4 ffbtt Ww ofmeUctimeMxmd Iwaq/iiet


VITTORIA!
(Drawn in a dare after reading in the cables that Fascists armed with tanks, machine-guns, bombs, etc., had been captured by Spanish villagers
with pitchforks and scythes.)


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: National Mutual Buildings, 91
King William Street, Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Saywell Buildings, 115 Lambton
Quay, Wellineton.
London: 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London,
E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. ( Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji and
United Kingdom via “All Sea Route,” 2d. New
Hebrides and United Kingdom via France or
America, 3d. To all other places, 4d.
"SAVING AUSTRALIA."
Arrived back in London the other day, a friendly
globetrotter described Australia as a place where
“dictatorship would never dare to show its ugly head.”
Is that so certain? Do we prove ourselves strikingly
public-spirited in support and defence of institutions
and principles of government secured for us by a
mostly forgotten and occasionally despised generation
of statesmen?
Is it not the fact, rather, that when Mr. Menzies
depreciates those forerunners of his the chief articu-
late response is applause? And when, after the refer-
endums on which he was then crusading, he talks
of “circumventing the people’s decision” on one of
the questions, is there any noticeable outburst of
protest? Mr. Menzies is more fit to be called states-
man than most of his colleagues; but do dictators
talk any other language than that? And do people
in dictator countries make any different response?
The plain truth is that the principle of govern-
ment in Australia is being changed ; and one of the
most extraordinary things about the bureaucratic
hybrid that is fast ousting democracy is the placid
way in which it and its instruments and works are
accepted. The assault on liberty is continuous and
widespread ; articulate protest is rare and restricted
to a few. Judged by recent instances, there are no
lengths to which bureaucrats are not prepared to go
in whittling down the common liberty, and evidently
they can do so, and are well aware they can do so,
with impunity.
Even so glaring an example as the Freer busi-
ness —as disgraceful an interference with common
liberty as we have known since the times of military
rule —had no immediate effects against the Minister
who handled it with inimitable clumsiness or the
Government which supported him. There was protest
—the country would have qualified as a hopelessly
flabby jelly if there had not been—but against that
Mr. Paterson was able to boast of “hundreds of
letters” from people who approved of a ruthless and
autocratic action running counter to every principle
of democracy, and apparently that was sufficient to
silence all objection.
It is no time since that happened ; but to-day the
subject is already dead—a staggering abuse of the
principle of common liberty, placidly accepted. What,
under this placidity, may be simmering up for Mr.
Paterson or the Government remains to be demon-
strated.
An example just as glaring—though it had the
virtue of not damaging any helpless woman under
Parliamentary privilege—was last week’s Common-
wealth-wide banning of a moving picture in which
the Duke of Windsor figured. As usual, no reason
was given for this banning. As in other acts of the
censorship, it was done on the say-so of individual
officials. The responsible Minister, as usual, declined
any responsibility. Under continuous press pressure
it came out at last that the picture was banned “be-
cause of the spoken commentary which accompanied
it” ; the commentator, in the opinion of the censor-
ship authorities, “described the picture in such a way
that the audience might have interpreted his words
as having a secondary meaning.”
The censorship never looks so ridiculous as when
it is thus forced into the open and has to justify its
interference and explain the sort of grounds on which
it operates. “Because the audience might have inter-
preted his words as having a secondary meaning”
must be the flimsiest excuse ever offered even to justify
an action of censorship.
When pressed further for a defence, the sup-
porters of this ludicrous censorship have to fall back
on evangelical claptrap about saving Australia from
some bogey or other. This is the “case” made out
to justify excluding some of the most notable books
w'ritten in recent years. In regard to this piece of
film that defence is worse than worthless. What
“secondary meaning” is it suggested “the audience”
miuht have read into the commentator’s words? The
action surely could not have been taken because such
“secondary meaning” might be derogatory to the
ex-King: in that respect all taste and common human
decency have long since been bogged under in daily-
press muckraking. Is it then banned —to save Aus-
tralia ! —because it was not derogatory; because
showing the ex-King up in a decent light might shake
his one-time subjects’ loyalty to the throne he left?
In cables of dailies, almost daily, the push practice
of kicking a man when he is out has been indulged
in without any censor’s interference. Is a trifle of
favorable presentation likely to upset the widespread
effects of that poisonous propaganda? Or is a trifle
more of the propaganda itself, with “the audience
having to infer its own “secondary meaning,” at all
likely to add seriously to the damaging utterances
that have smeared out into cables for months? Or
what is it that we are being saved from?
As happened to Mrs. Freer, the film is to have
the freedom of Maoriland. Are Australians a different
race from Maorilanders —more susceptible to moral
disintegration, more in need of the fussy protection
of officious old women? Or is it that Australians are
more indifferent to abuses of the common liberty,
and that this is well known to board-incubating poli-
ticians and their incubations?
However that may be —and the evidence is not
particularly favorable —there is mounting cause for
a belief that censorship in Australia is largely a poli-
tical instrument acting in the guise of a moral agency.
Hence the banning in a pretence of moral protection
of such a purely astringent polemic work as Huxley’s
Brave New World, allowed unhindered circulation in
England and quoted and discussed there by every
second clergyman. Hence, also, while works of that
nature are banned, the admission of “works” such as
the one from which the following is culled:
Glittering steel, wielded in the hands of those
Central Empire soldiers, lunged and twisted indiscrimi-
nately, ripping stomachs, plunging into pulsing throats.
Women fled screaming into the thick mass of crowded
prisoners, only to be caught and pierced through the
back, impaled and lifted into the air, then dropped
again. The boots of the Central Empire troopers began
to slip in the flowing blood which bathed the street.
Men and women writhed on the ground. Screams and
groans filled the air, as victims twisted in the agony of
ripped entrails, with hands clasped to stomachs over
gaping wounds.
No ; it has no basis of fact to recommend Jt as
anti-violence propaganda. It is what is called “light
fiction” ; a shockingly-written, shoddily-produced
invention of a street slaughter in New York. Price:
whatever is the prevailing Australian dump-equiva-
lent of 10 cents.
Nobody would suggest that such hogwash would
be likely to corrupt anybody. The objection to it
is that it is a foul mental bath of a kind that is
permitted circulation in the cheaper sorts of dumped
publications. If another purpose of censorship is to
keep the general intelligence down to the lowest
possible level, it is therein doing its job most effi-
ciently; and just as efficiently in keeping literature
out.
Sydney and Its Government.
Cursing the City Council has ceased to be one of
the favorite recreations of Sydney business people.
The long-execrated institution at what used to be
known as the Town Haul has in the last twelvemonth
become an object of sympathy, it being recognised
that it has been scurvily treated by the Stevens
Government, and that the ratepayers are suffering
in the process.
N. S. Wales has to support 14 State Ministers, of
whom at least three are superfluous. One of the
three is Mr. Spooner, the Minister of Local Govern-
ment, who apparently considers that, unless he
meddles in local-government matters by overriding the
decisions of and making arbitrary arrangements for
elected authorities, he isn’t earning his salary.
Two years ago Mr. Spooner brought in a Gas and
Electricity Bill, designed chiefly to transfer control
of the City Council’s electricity business to a so-
called County Council, to be composed of five aider-
men. He asserted that if this were not done “dis-
integration of the undertaking” was a dread possi-
bility ; “the danger is already here,” and “a huge
waste of capital may result.” For the City Council
had “agreements with 32 suburban councils for the
supply of electricity direct to the consumer” ; some
of these agreements had expired or were expiring,
and the local bodies concerned might set up their
own plants. Mr. Spooner declared also that “the
suburban areas” would have “a voice in the manage-
ment” thus far denied to them, and that his measure
would “enable the undertaking to consolidate its
position so that it might pursue a policy of price-
reduction unimpeded by the process of disintegration.”
These representations virtually silenced opposition
other than that of Lang Labor, which was unim-
portant, and the City Council. The City Council
briefed a barrister to state its case at the Bar of the
Upper House; but its electricity concern and proper-
ties were nevertheless taken from it, and, though
nominally “indemnified against loss,” it was left liable
for the debt of £14,000,000 and interest —“ruthlessly
robbed of £7,000,000,” in Mr. McElhone’s expression.
Mr. McElhone now has a double-headed job,
being a city alderman and chairman of the County
Council. Judging from his utterances on the subject
he would resign the chairmanship to-morrow if his
resignation would give the County Council the happy
dispatch. The first chairman was a minor U.A.P.
Assemblyman, Mr. S. A. Lloyd, who received £750
a year and the use of an £llOO car, in addition to
his Parliamentary salary of £670 a year and a gold
pass over the insolvent Government railways and the
Government tramways. The £llOO car was used
for a “tour of investigation” to Melbourne; but tours
of investigation and new quarters qnd minor-Assem-
blyman administration and Spooner heroics did not
prevent the County Council debates from becoming
notorious for their inanity. Employment of “per-
sonality girls” for people to look at while they are
paying their electric-light bills ; addition of “person-
ality boys” ; census of the female employees to see how
many of them are married ; equal pay for the sexes ;
introduction of the 40-hour week (cost £20,000 or
£30,000 p.a.)—these have been some of the themes
on which the aldermen appointed to run an electric-
light business have expended their verbosity. And
there have, of course, been rows about tenders,
rescission motions, newspaper barneys and overseas
trips for officials, overseas trips for officials being
inevitable accompaniments of Stevens Government
“reforms.”
Naturally there has been no time to , spare for
the pursuit of “a policy of price-reduction,” and the
public still awaits the advent of said policy. It has
instead been told that County Council costs are
persistently rising, and that for street lamps of the same
type as the County Council provides the Balmain
Electric Light Co. is charging four municipalities £4
10s. per lamp per year less than the County Council’s
charge, and “making a good profit.” And, while the
Adelaide Electric Supply Co. is bearing all the expen-
diture on conversion from direct current to alter-
nating current, the County Council—ignoring a City
Council pledge when a similar change was decided
upon—is debiting part of the cost to consumers.
Certain that it could improve on present arrange-
ments, the City Council applied for permission to buy
electricity in bulk. Mr. Spooner, now infuriated, has
replied in a letter that if any such arrangement is made
“I shall feel it my duty to recommend the Government
to amend the Gas and Electricity Act so as to prevent
the disintegration of the County Council.” The word
“busting” was substituted for disintegration by the
courtly Alderman Walder, one of the knights of the
U.A.P.'Table Round, who supports Mr. Spooner ; but
there is a growing impression that the absurd body
will “bust,” no matter what the Spooners and Walders
may do. It was authorised to borrow £250,000 “at
interest not exceeding 4| p.c.”' Only £54,000 was
publicly subscribed, the rest being obtained from the
Commonwealth Bank at 4f p.c.
But this is by no means the only matter in which
the City of Sydney is getting a raw deal from the
Stevens Government. The Commonwealth Bank is
not legally rateable on any of its properties, but
makes a practice of ascertaining what it is morally
liable for and sending a cheque for the amount. The
Stevens Government pays nothing for municipal
services rendered. If this Government and its com-
missioner-ruled departments followed the honest and
public-spirited example of the bank their annual con-
tribution to City Council funds would amount to
£102,500. The worst offender is the Railway Depart-
ment, which “scaled” the City Council last year for
£48,000, though at its city railway stations it has
become a restaurateur, a vintner, a seller of tobacco,
milk, fruit, confectionery, oysters and the like, and a
landlord on a large scale. By not paying its fair dues it
prevents the ratepayers (among them those with whom
it unfairly competes for trade) getting the benefit of
a reduction of rates, and the victims are also obliged
to pay extra taxes to meet the annual losses on the
Government railways, losses reckoned by the Auditor-
General (though underestimated, he acknowledges) at
£28,000,000 for ten years to June 30, 1935, and
increased in the ensuing twelvemonth by just on
£1,500,000.
The Transport Commission is another impudent
rate-dodger. Before the Government railways and
tramways were placed under the management of
officials so independent of Parliament that, as the
Auditor-General reports, they may “sanction all
classes of expenditure without seeking Ministerial or
other approval,” the City Council was paid for work
done for the departments as a matter of course.
To-day, however, this spirit of co-operation is practi-
cally non-existent. Even a contribution for many years
towards the cleansing of the tramway areas and payment
of a proportion of license fees formerly paid when the
buses were privately owned are denied.
The witness is Mr. McCall (U.A.P.), the member
for Martin, who is also a city alderman.
Being still supplied with loan money, the Govern-
ment has caused horrid gashes to be made in the
region about Circular Quay by way of extending the
city railway. Repeated inquiries as to what the
finished job would look like brought the fatuous
admission that “no plans” had been “approved,”
whereupon “a meeting representative,” among others,
“of the City Council, architects and town-planners,
moved by visions of architectural atrocities and
additions to the traffic nightmare, objected in ener-
getic resolutions. When these were placed before
the Premier, he gave a sort of promise that “the inten-
tions of the Government for the layout of Circular
Quay, the Quay station and the Rocks area would
be made known in about two months’ time” ; but
the Government’s attitude, now as always where
responsibility can be shirked, is that “it is a mattei
for the Commissioner.” This is its attitude also
to the Elizabeth-street extension, for which “S. M.
Herald” is barracking. The “Herald” angrily remarks
that the Government has merely “looked on, though
directly interested,” having “a block of land at the
corner of the reclaimed area,” and refers sourly to
“the vast sums expended on the new railway offices
in York-street and the developments at Wynyard
station, where money is being poured out like water.
It is something of an achievement for a U.A.P-
Government to have baited the “Herald” into bitter
comments and changed the old half-amused contemp
of the public for the City Council into RCtrve sym-
pathy ; but it is an achievement which bodes ill tor
the U.A.P.


Youth Competitions.
The winner of No. 1, “What I Would
Do with Fifty Pounds,” is Athol Joseph
Cobcroft, Granville-street, Smithfield
(N.S.W.). He will get the £5O.
The winner of No. 2, “Why I Want to
Become a Writer,” is Phillip Dorter, 15
Bindaring-parade, Cottesloe (W.A.). The
prize is a job on “The Bulletin” literary
staff, and the office will bear all expenses
of Mr. Dorter’s journey to Sydney.
A report on the competition will appear
next week.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
"Impartial, Not Neutral."
Associated Press gets a lot of its Spanish war “news”
and got a lot of its Abyssinian war “news” from a
London “Liberal” rag called the “News-Chronicle.”
A young man from that paper, who describes himself
as its special correspondent in Spain, has written a
book on his experiences as “a comrade and an anti-
Fascist.” In this volume he glorifies the “News-
Chronicle” (it “never censored a word”), “the united
Communist and Socialist youth” he saw marching in
Madrid (“more beautiful young men and maidens
you would not wish to see”) and the victories of the
Popular Front, including those over “what priests and
their chief supporters are apt to call law and order.”
Also a certain Paco.
Of all the starry faces I have seen, none shone like
Paco’s. Paco was originally a Frenchman and had got
into prison during the Great War as a pacifist. He was
the editor of the chief Socialist paper in Madrid. He was
also the Madrid correspondent of my own paper. He
was also chief liaison officer for matters to do with
air defence. And every afternoon he went to do his
bit of fighting on the Sierra.
And a perfectly trustworthy Madrid correspon-
dent, no doubt. A thoroughly impartial witness
against what his panegyrist the author calls “the
greatest crime against humanity that our generation
has seen, the murder of the Spanish people.”
And so Australia gets “information” like this:
According to the Madrid correspondent of the
“News-Chronicle,” the rout of the Italians has crippled
the rebel attack, indefinitely postponed the fall of
Madrid, and swung the insurgents’ onslaught round,
much as the Battle of the Marne turned the German
drive on Paris in 1914.
The Battle of the Marne, which M. Paco took
dashed good care not to see.
What did Mr. Keith Murdoch say to the other
Associated Press gentlemen at that Adelaide confer-
ence? Oh, yes: “We give Australia a cable service
of unquestioned veracity, completeness and authority.
In selecting news sources only the most dependable
newspapers are chosen.”
"The Greatest Show on Earth."
Governor Macquarie was the first Australian public
man to take measures for the improvement of Aus-
tralian stock and agriculture. In his day, except for
a few herds of cattle and three or four flocks of
sheep, the animals were so poor that a Government
herd-keeper thought they were beyond improvement.
Macquarie issued regulations for separation of the
breeds in Government herds and for strict adherence
to sound breeding principles.
The crossing of the Blue Mountains and the
discovery of the Hunter and New England gave
impetus to the pastoral industry. On July 5, 1822,
those who lived by it began to organise by the issue
of the prospectus of the Agricultural Society, which
has become the Sydney R.A.S.
The writers of this document pointed out that
“all the land on the Sydney side of the Nepean” had
already been misused.
The arable has been cropped out by bad husbandry
and the pasture consumed by surcharge of cattle; so
that scientific farming and artificial grasses have become
absolutely necessary... .We must do what all nations
have done before us —collect from every quarter what
is adapted to our soil and climate.
When the R.A.S. was founded the settled parts
of continental Australia consisted of Sydney, Liver-
pool. Parramatta, Windsor, Bathurst, Newcastle and
the Illawarra. The only way open northward from
the capital, apart from the treacherous road across
the Blue Mountains, was • over the passes of the
Bulgra, on the tracks of which pack bullocks some-
times fell over precipices.
The age of great estates on which Governors were
welcomed between lines of plough teams and with
roasted oxen was arriving. From the germ which was
fertilised at the inaugural dinner of the A.A.S. in the
Woolpack Inn, Parramatta, in 1822 sprang the urge
to breed stock and plough the land.
The R.A.S. has had continuous existence since
that year. It survived the “Hungry Forties,” when
cattle brought ss. a head on the Hunter, and the
gold-fever period, when farms were deserted for
claims. Sometimes an influenza epidemic or some
other unforeseen circumstance has made it impossible
to hold the show, but, show or no show, the work
has gone on and expanded. In N. S. Wales the
R.A.S. sowed the seed which made for a silage policy.
It has done more to educate the beef and mutton
men to overseas standards than any other influence.
It has been a pioneer of pasture improvement.
In its 115 years of existence, the R.A.S. has bred
a large family. Something like 400 shows on its
model —which was original and distinct in purpose
and method from British shows —have grown out
from it. With three of these—Melbourne and Bris-
bane and Adelaide—nothing else on the globe can
vie except those at Toronto and Buenos Ayres.
All these exhibitions have become a sort of
stocktaking of national progress. They are, in their
way, huge conventions from land and industry at
which once a year all Australia meets to swap experi-
ences and pick up ideas. From them are distributed
the pick of Australia’s stud stock. Thousands of
youngsters every year learn their first lessons in
breeding technique on showgrounds.
There is never any pessimism about R.A.S. shows.
Good times or depression, low wool prices or high,
Lang or Lyons, the work is carried on with pride
and energy and with a continuity of the policy and
purpose enshrined in showdom’s first document in
the last year of Macquarie’s reign.
A Queer Royal Commission.
Queensland’s political ultra - political - railways
have such a history that no new event concerning
them can cause surprise. In other circumstances, it
might give public opinion a jolt to learn that a branch
manager retiring by age-limit has been appointed a
royal commission to investigate the affairs of the
concern.
Mr. Hooper has been a good servant. His work-
ing life has been spent on the show, and it is not
disputed or doubted that he rose from this position
to that according to merit. And he must be steeped
in loyalty to the department.
The report of this “royal commission” will excite
more curiosity than interest. Mr. Hooper should be
able to frame a comprehensive report without the
formalities and expense of taking evidence. Witnesses
can hardly enlarge his knowledge of the railways—
and of what is wrong with them.
Still, it may be something to the good that the
Government realises the need of investigation.
There ARE Workless Youths.
In Victoria’s youth-employment survey a five weeks’
publicity campaign netted more than 5000 applica-
tions from lads either workless or in “dead-end” jobs.
Effort will now be made to steer these youngsters into
happier circumstances.
Apprenticeship figures in the building and skilled
engineering trades supply proof that depression years
are responsible for most of the applications. Between
1930 and 1933 the building trade apprenticed 83
plumbers, compared with 270 for a similar earlier
period ; only 104 carpenters were apprenticed instead
of more than 800; in the engineering shops there
were 2100 apprentices in 1929 and only 1500 in 1933.
Other trades show similar depression precipices.
Lads who missed employment chances have not
been content to wait for something to turn up. Of
five well-educated youths at present on the unem-
ployed register, one cycled three times through
eastern States hunting work, another walked to
Sydney and back, the third went after farm work
and learned to milk, another humped his swag for
a year, getting some shearing odd-jobs and a bit of
prospecting ; the fifth and youngest —he had his inter-
mediate at 14 —chopped wood in summers and went
into the hills after gold in winters, varying things
with a bit of gravedigging.
Leaders of Victorian industry have volunteered,
through the Employers’ Federation and the Chambers
of Commerce and Manufactures, to help the Vic-
torian committee. The lads themselves are keen
to assist; many have offered to attend any night
class that might be suggested—if there are jobs ahead.
Entries for The Bulletin Youth Competitions
show that the other States and Maoriland are in much
the same position as Victoria. With such evidence
available the crowd of politicians floating off with
their costly retinues to the Coronation might relieve
the tedium of the voyage contemplating their com-
parative good luck.
A Preposterous Censorship.
Two events supporting the “Saving Australia” article
on page 12 occurred after that page had gone to
press. The Australian book-censorship committee,
directed to review past bannings, immediately recom-
mended that the ban on Brave New World should be
removed. Then Federal Opposition leader Curtin
said to the Easter Labor conference at Sydney:
The Government has not only taken the form of
dictatorship, but has displayed the actuality of despot-
ism. The rights of free speech and free public assembly
have been filched from the people by successive Gov-
ernments.
No instrument has been more blatantly used in
that filching than the censorship, the clumsy despotism
of which is illustrated in the Brave New World ban-
ning. This book was allowed a few weeks’ sales
immediately after publication ; then, for reasons that
were not given, have not since been given and never
will be given, the book was banned by somebody
whose literary or political authority has not been
disclosed. Officials visited bookshops, commandeering
copies of it as if it carried some contagious disease ;
now, after years, it is apparently to be admitted, with
big sales likely through the publicity attaching to its
having, in a double sense, figured in a scandal.
The scandal of cheap dumped rubbish, of course,
goes on.
Fisheries for Australians.
Dr. H. Thompson has introduced himself to Aus-
tralia as Director of Fisheries in terms which might
be expected to put heart into a neglected and mis-
understood industry. He has informed us that there are
prospects of tuna and pilchard catches rivalling similar
(U.S.) industries which yielded £6,700,000 in 1935.
In other words, Dr. Thompson has expressed the
view that Australia’s fisheries, even in only two of
their numerous aspects, are capable of being con-
verted into a large export industry. He is a recog-
nised expert on his subject, fresh from the organisa-
tion of a successful industry which has pulled a very
impoverished British dependency out of a financial
Slough of Despond, and comes to Australia after
an intensive study of industrial fishery conditions in
a half-dozen fish-minded countries.
For previous guidance on the industrial side of
fisheries, Australia had the statement of an eminent
person who alleged at Canberra that Australian
pilchards were no good. Mr. Parkhill has indicated
his views by refusing to consider Australian canned
fish as suitable food for the Australian naval or mili-
tary forces. Senator McLachlan and Mr. Francis
have told the Australian Fishermen’s League to stop
bothering them for any of the things which Canada
and Newfoundland are doing for their fishing in-
dustries. From Canberra’s point of view, Dr. Thomp-
son must appear as a tactless person.
But there is no need for the young man to feel
disheartened. An actual vessel has been built for
him and an actual staff appointed. The results of
his investigations will be deeply appreciated, if not
in Australia, then certainly in several other countries,
since 90 p.c. of what he discovers will be in extra-
territorial waters.
Heroes.
“E.H.M.”: One of the peculiarities of the mass mind
is the way in which it differentiates between its heroes.
I met a V.C. in a Sydney street. He looked tired
and worn. He said things were not good. His wounds
were troublesome, and it was hard to get a crust.
Twenty years ago this same man was in a trench
in France within a few yards of the German front
line. All sorts of provender were coming over,
including a new incendiary bomb. To save his men
from being overwhelmed he left the trench with an
armful of bombs, ran along the front of the German
trench in the open and pelted the enemy. He saved
a good many Jives and was himself wounded.
Coronation year is a good time in which to
make a survey of the condition of Australian V.Cs.
Many of them have always been victims of war shock
and wounds. A country that, with general acceptance,
has given large sums to successful fliers and a couple
of thousand to a mar., who, in all modesty, does a
30-mile climb in bush and mountain country with
which he is familiar can surely afford to see that
no V.C. is in actual want for the rest of his life.
A Rabbet-plague Virus.
“El V.”: Great hopes are centred in the rabbit-
plague virus imported from Europe.
The virus seems to be as contagious as the black
plague and ten times as deadly. Tests show 1 p.c.
to 2 p.c. escapes from death in infected colonies.
First the eyelids swell out enormously, causing blind-
ness. Then all the orifices of the body, from the
mouth backwards, go the same way, the swellings
turning into suppurating, blisterlike growths. The
animals die from starvation and inability to perform
their natural functions, apart from the pain.
The disease, it seems, does not affect animals
other than rabbits. Which is just as well. If 1 deli-
berately infected a dog or a cat with the virus I
would get six months without the option.
And if I conveyed it to a single human fifty times
as well able to look after himself as a rabbit, even
a community which fights shy of capital punishment
would not waste any sympathy on me when I came
out to spend half an hour with a running noose.
The rabbit can be wiped out without this kind
of cruelty.
Forgcm's Folly.
When Premier Forgan Smith insisted on laying the
foundation-stone of new university buildings at St.
Lucia, a remote trans-river suburb of Brisbane, he
was, consciously or unconsciously, ministering to his
passion for building bridges.
Mr. Forgan Smith’s most recent effort in this line
at Kangaroo Point, in the heart of the city, was
unnecessary and unwanted by a great majority of the
citizens. It was suggested that the money be devoted
to putting down bores on stock routes which badly
needed them and to giving other assistance to the
stricken pastoral industry. Though this expenditure
would have been returned fifty-fold in the lives of
thousands of stock saved every season, it lacked the
spectacular tang of the bridge scheme.
St. Lucia is practically inaccessible save for a
long roundabout journey, which follows the twists
and bends of the river for miles. No doubt bus
services would help to ease the strain, but an under-
graduate from, say, Sandgate, 12 miles away in the
opposite direction, would have a considerable mileage
to cover between daylight and dark.
It is urged that the land was given free. Some
years ago the then Government gave a large area
in Victoria Park, almost in the heart of the city, and
laid down foundations which to-day would not be
shamed by the ruins of Baalbec ; so that excuse carries
little weight.
The only way to make the place approachable
is to build a new bridge over the river, here uncom-
monly wide and deep. “Forgan’s Folly” would be
an apt name for it.


Society
“AND ITS PRINTED WITH WIMBLE’S INKS”
“K. Lee”: Offhand, without refer-
ence to news files, I’d say the first quar-
ter of 1937 has been one of the most
eventful in Australia’s recent history. We
won the “Ashes” ; wheat went to ss. 7d.
at ports : Wonthaggi mine (Vic.) provided
tragedy and heroism ; a bushman, dis-
playing extraordinary initiative, found a
given-up-for-lost air-liner and two sur-
vivors ; the A.B.C. turned and rent its
Vic. newspaper critics; a man braved
death in a desperate attempt to save a
wrecked launch party off Sydney Heads ;
Darwin (N.T.) had a cyclone ; Federal
Minister Gullett took the knock ; oceans
of rain and furious gales broke a dry
spell in the Eastern States; “S.M.H.”
called Arch Parkhill nasty names ; Mr.
Stevens refused a Coronation trip ; our
first team of girl cricketers set sail for
England ; and Melbourne had nine fine
days in succession.
* * * *
“Ex-Hobo”: Travelling north from
Brisbane, we train-jumpers had made
several hundred miles without mishap,
when one Saturday morning “Mickey the
Mouse,” a notorious old sundowner,
added himself to our party. The day be-
came stifling under the tied-down tar-
paulins, and we were sweating and curs-
ing when at noon our “goods” pulled up
at a fair-sized town. Mickey suddenly
came to life, poked his head out be-
tween the tarp. and the edge of the truck,
saw three coppers on the platform and
piped “How are y’, mates?” They caught
six of us. “Like t’ ’ave a bit o’ regular
tucker an’ rest now an’ agin,” Mickey
explained. On Monday morning, when
a marble-faced magistrate barked “Seven
days!” Mickey was the only one who
grinned happily.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: An absentminded bride-
groom, suffering from a rush of money
to the head, has been before an Adel-
aide Court. Working far up-country, and
receiving £lO5 compensation for a lost
finger, he banked £6O, and took the
rest to the city on a honeymoon trip.
When that was spent, he accepted the
complete novelty of a cheque-book as
a fairy godmother, and drew at random,
being eventually hauled up, after he had
spent £9O out of the £6O, on a mere. 30-
bob valueless-cheque charge. The de-
fence was simple: “Not used to spend-
ing more than a bob or two a week.
No intention to defraud; all cheques
outstanding have been arranged for.
Will never have a cheque-book again.”
Case dismissed.
•?*
“Siz”: ft’s brave news that Ernest
Hemingway, leader of the physical-
violence-adoration school of U.S.A.
writers, is there in the front line doing
his bit with the Spanish Government
forces. Well, not exactly in the front
line, perhaps—he’s driving an ambu-
lance —but, still, he must be seeing quite
a lot of wounds. Of course, in Spain
they may send their ambulance cars up
into the front line to gather up the fallen
combatants, though in France the cars
were too valuable to be so risked, as a
rule ; and I remember that when I got
my issue at Passchendaele stretcher-
bearers carted me about two miles over
those foul hills to well behind the 18-
pounders before we came to the ambu-
lance car forward station. No discredit
to the ambulance car-drivers —in the
muck of the French roads, at least,
theirs was hardly a cushy job—but they
were noncombatant forces, and a call
among infantrymen for volunteers for
“Are you Mrs. Smythe-Brown?”
“ Unfortunately , no. I'm her maiden aunt.”
the car-driving would have left the artil-
lery to be the front line. What I admire
about Ernest Hemingway —who has him-
self always admired in his writings the
active physical rough stuff—is that he is
now demonstrating what a sincere writer
he is: when he wrote A Farewell to
Arms he meant it.
* * * *
“Kerys”: Our local parson offered me
a lift into the village where he was tak-
ing a week-night service. Turning down
a side street we saw two of the town’s
three policemen at the intersection. The
parson became perturbed. “I can’t turn,”
he muttered. “My tail-light’s gone. And
they prosecuted three motorists here for
that last week.” We sat hoping the cops
would move on, but the church bell
began to ring and they were still there.
Then the parson had a brainwave. “I’ll
back,” he whispered. “They can’t get
a man for backing.” The first turning
was nearly a quarter of a mile behind
us, but in spurts and starts, with much
noise and vapor, we backed. Several
people shouted inquiries as to what was
wrong and whether they could help, but
the parson’s unresponsive attitude
seemed to indicate that he preferred
driving backwards, and we went on un-
molested, though a couple of car-drivers
made unpleasant remarks as they
swerved to avoid us. Reaching the turn-
ing, we backed triumphantly round.
Then a blue-clad form loomed through
our smoke-screen. It was the third
policeman, and “Where’s yer tail-light?”
was his brusque demand.
* * * *
“Captain Pintle”: Recent heavy
weather has set some press-lads claiming
records for Australian waters in wave-
heights and wind-speeds. The. North
Atlantic records the highest waves with
80ft., observed from the bridge of the
Majestic during a n.-w. gale in De-
cember, 1922. In February, 1925, the
Olympic’s bridge, 75ft. above waterline,
was badly damaged by a sea. In
November, 1932, the Phemius encoun-
tered a hurricane in the West Indies
which blew her funnel overboard and
wrecked her superstructure. Wind force
was registered at 200 m.p.h.—so over
the highest previous record. The glass
fell to 27.21, the lowest recorded read-
ing at sea level, and in the centre of the
disturbance heavy seas broke over the
ship from fore and aft simultaneously.
The highest sustained wind-speed is 107
m.p.h. for eight hours, recorded during
the Mawson Antarctic expedition, 1911-
1914.
* * * *
“Adel”: John Dempster, a musical ex-
pert in Adelaide, is astonished to find
that “among the younger students of
singing there are no real contraltos. ’
And he wants to know if that type of
voice, like the real bass, is disappearing,
through some mysterious evolutionary
process? “Probably about a.d. 2000,”
he suggests, “the last contralto will have
gone.”
* * * *
“Nikko”: Fifty miles up the line the
Sydney-bound train was boarded by a
riotous party of returning campers. Tak-
ing possession of a carriage occupied by
a quiet countryman reading a paper,
they filled racks and floor-space with
their gear, laughed, talked, sang and
generally made whoopee. Half-way to
town they became hungry and began a
hunt for left-over food, the search yield-
ing sundry scraps and a large bag of
apples. The apples proved tremen-
dously popular and kept the party
munching for quite 10 miles. As he
pitched the last core from the window
the finder said approvingly, “Best apples
I ever tasted. Who brought them, any-
way?” The quiet countryman made his
sole remark for the journey. “I did,”
he said.
* * * *
“Cave Canem”: Over a thousand
Alsatian dogs have gone painlessly. in
Melbourne during the last few weeks to
the happy hunting-grounds of the species.
Their owners doubtless valued them, but
not to the extent of paying ten times
the registration fee imposed on the ordi-
nary tyke ; the lethal chamber did the
rest. A barracker for the breed—and
there are some sturdy ones —puts in an
ingenious plea for his favorites in the
“Argus.” His argument is that the
human body, when its owner is scared,
gives off a curious odor, imperceptible to
any but canine nostrils; that the smell
has a maddening effect on any dog
makes them see red, in fact —and that,
more people being afraid of Alsatians
than of any other breed, more people
are liable to be suddenly attacked and
mauled by them. There is no doubt
whatever that dogs can smell “fear” in
a human being, but many of the most
savage assaults periodically recorded
against the breed both in this country
a nd Britain have been against the
owners, who were the least likely to be
afraid of them. It may be freely ad-
mitted that the Alsatian is a splendid
specimen of the canine race, faithful and
intelligent when there is plenty of hard
work for him to do ; it is when he is
kept as a pet or a pampered offsider that
be becomes a potential menace. In any
ca se, we are shutting the gate too late ;
the slaughtered thousand in Melbourne
represent only a fraction of the Alsatians
scattered far and wide over Victoria,
* * * *
“Cainscross”: Must radio announcers,
I cannot help noticing, sound well-
known place-names and suchlike with an
academic correctness missing in the
common speech. A friend of mine ex-
perienced in such matters tells me that
one of the first things impressed on them
i s to give full value to every syllable.
Hence, when the Tests were on, Barnett
became Bar nett more often than not,
though in England the second syllable
would be no more likely to be stressed
than in Barrett. And quite lately I have
heard both Brisbane and Melbourne pro-
nounced with an accuracy almost re-
served for the air. A few years ago a
couple of London crooks, posing as
wealthy Australians, were bowled out
by some travelled sleuth because they
S poke of Melbourne and Brisbane giving
full value to every letter. “Those fellows
have never been m Aus ra ub
asserted or they d know its Melbn
and Bnsbn there. I suspect it will
take more than*the radio to alter* that.
« Y orky”: An article in a contem-
/bout six Dukes of York who
and a
few who haven , ( mentjons among the
, rj eor a e TTl’s second son, the
!. good .. Duk | of York, “remembered by
In London street-
* d „ j J Y t h only by com .
elder brother! of whom
P records that “not even
occ J ional gkam o( brightness lights
up the dark picture of his career.” Any-
way this particular Duke died £3OO 000
in debt; his brother the King
shoulder the responsibflity, but me
Times of the period remarked rather
acidly that as George had ,
able to pay his own debts he under
taking was worthless. As for the bydney
street-name, it occurs to me that all
George lII.s male progeny were cont
memorated m that inexpensive fashion
by he loyal co omsts of early-day N Y
Wales As well as a there
is a Clarence-street a Sussex-street a
Kent-street, a
Cambridge-street £^ lon _ ( *!2Jgh
other two sons didn t live long enougn
to become royal dukes.
THE PLACE FOR LOVEMAKING.
■‘The cinema, according- to Ur. Brewer, medical
officer of Swindon (England), (filers the best accom-
modation for lovemaking' open to youth, and every
right-minded person should rejoice that they use it.”
1 here are numerous places whose merits are
stressed
By experts for courting and wooing;
Some reckon that gardens or parks are the best
Environs for billing and cooing;
Some conjugate amo, in accents that thrill
And pulses that throb with emotion.
When the sheen of the moon is on valley and
hill
Or its radiance silvers the ocean.
But we can’t all have choices and picks,
And for lovers to mingle and mix
In days such as ours
Of all Venus’s bowers
There’s nothing to rival the flicks.
As the way of a man with a maiden the screen
With all its allurements uncovers,
What a setting is there, what a stimulant scene
For shyly-incipient lovers!
Under cover of darkness Jess nestles to Jim
Ere the sticky scenario closes,
He featuring her, and she visioning him,
In pleasantly similar poses.
For every couple that “clicks”
I’ll venture there’s five out of six
When for maid and for man
The attachment began
That ripened to love at the flicks.
With what amorous ardor he presses the foot
Or fondles the hand that’s adjacent,
While the pearl among girls, so to phrase it,
“stays put”
Unoffended —or sweetly complaisant!
There’s a spell, you can tell, upon many a
belle
As the stageland endearments grow crisper,
To listen glad-eyed to the beau at her side
And the honey-sweet nothings he’ll whisper.
Dan Cupid is e’er at his tricks
And eager his arrows to fix
In the breasts of those twain,
The sheilah and swain,
Who give him a show at the flicks.
There are hearts, quite a lot, began beating as
one
At parties and picnics and dances,
And few the localities under the sun
That haven’t engendered romances.
But for all that pertains to invincible Love
And its glorious, gladsome beginnings,
Arcadian scenes, with the moonlight above,
Have just about finished their innings.
In this era of mortar and bricks
The chance for such settings is nix.
K affianced you’d be,
Just take it from me
(Or, if you prefer it, from Brewer, M.D.):
Buy tickets for two at the flicks.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Selma”: My neighbor was dismissing
her maid, and I happened to hear the
final interview. “Emma,” said her mis-
tress slowly and impressively, “I have
decided, against my better judgment, to
give you a reference. I’ve said that you
are a good cook and can wash and iron
well, but I haven’t mentioned that you
are impertinent and bad-tempered, and
think nothing of wearing my clothes
when you get the chance.” Emma
stumped down the path with the refer-
ence in her hand. “Well, I never pre-
tended,” said she as a parting shot, “to
be one of those parallels some people
think they are.”
* * * *
"Toheroa”: When just on 20 years ago
Captain J. F. Tonkin, now of Dalgety’s,
Christchurch (M.L.), was wounded at
Passchendaele, he handed a written mes-
sage to a runner to deliver to the 0.C.,
advising that the objective had been
gained and that he was handing over to
the next' in command. On the way to
the rear he met the 0.C., learned that
the message had not been delivered, and
gave its purport. The other day he was
walking down a Christchurch street when
a passing cyclist' hailed him. The cyclist
explained that he was the runner of the
Passchendaele episode, produced the
message and formally returned it to the
captain. He had been wounded and
knocked unconscious before he was able
to deliver the paper, and had kept it ever
since in the hope of one day being able
to give it personally to the sender.
* * * *
“C.J.R.”: Alec was leaning over the
rickety fence surrounding the corrugated
humpy and stacks of scrap iron which he
calls a garage and service station when
I happened along. “ ’Lo,” he hailed me,
“wanna buy a car.” It wasn't a ques-
“Lucky you brought your gumboots, dear.”
tion, just his usual opening remark. He
knows I don’t want a car. He also
knows that I know he knows I don’t
want a car. “Where is it?” I answered
in the same spirit. He pointed to one
of Henry Ford’s first efforts. “There
S l u’ nd twent y Pounds one shilling
will buy her.” “Why the shilling?” I
asked curiously. “Well, there’s four
new tyms at a fiver each, that’s twenty
quid. The deener’s for the car!”
“Quandong”: Two-book libraries re-
mind me of the choice of valuable litera-
ture made by Tommy Ah Lum, cook at
Blank Plains, when a lightning flash set
fire to the weatherboard building which
housed the bachelors’ quarters and office
at the homestead. It was Christmas-
time ; the family were away in Sydney,
the bookkeeper absent in the neighbor-
“Foundation garments, please!”
ing township, and Tommy had been left
in sole charge and possession of all the
buildings at the head station. Awakened
from an afternoon nap by the roar of
the flames only a few yards from his
bedroom, the gallant Tommy plunged
across a flaming verandah into the offifce,
emerging hurriedly with scorched cloth-
ing and singed pigtail and the most im-
portant looking volume he could hastily
snatch from the writing-table, a weighty
tome bound in crimson boards orna-
mented with much gilt lettering. It was
Anthony Horderns’ annual catalogue.
* Si * *
“Orangeade”: “Ibn el Issar” tells us
(B. 14/3/’37) that in reward for his war-
time services the Aga Khan was made a
prince of the Indian Empire and given a
salute of 11 guns—“he is the only ecclesi-
astic in the world entitled to such an
honor.” Not quite. In July, 1934, the
“Sydney Morning Herald” published a
news item headed “Salute to Pope—New
Naval Order.”
* * * *
“Pat McGinty”: The belief in cauls
has persisted beyond the nineteenth cen-
tury (B. 10/3/’37). In the classified ads.
column of most Irish newspapers caul-
seekers can still be located. I have also
seen similar advertisements in Austra-
lian papers. Anyone who set up a caul
store in the neighborhood of “a certain”
lottery office would probably do a thriv-
ing business, and I don’t suppose it would
matter if the cauls were made in Japan.
Jfc sjc
“D.8.K.”: “Olfactory” (B. 24/3/’37)
missed one of the most obvious cases of
custom blunting the senses. Most of an
ocean-going liner’s personnel can sleep
like logs through the rhythmic rumble of
the machinery below. If it slows or
stops, nine out of ten are awake at once.
Similarly an aviator used to thousands of
hours in the air can keep a well-trained
ear tuned to the steady pitch of engines.
Any slight variation is at once apparent,
but a mere passenger wouldn’t know the
difference. The sense of smell is the most
easily blunted, however, but this doesn’t
apply to those who suffer from occasional
distortion of smell. I am one of such,
and I attribute the trouble to heavy
smoking. With distorted sense of smell,
all things smell alike —and horrible into
the bargain.
* * * *
".Shanghai”: “Captain Pintle” (B.
17/3/’37) is right about the many things
marine officers see but hesitate to re-
port. A few years back, with two mates
sick and off duty, we had an apprentice
keeping the bridge meal reliefs. At
dinner one night the mate received a
message from the bridge, per medium of
a Chinese sailor, reporting an iceberg
ahead. Naturally this phenomenon was
reckoned worth inspection as we had
crossed the Line only the day before.
The “berg” proved to be the moon rising.
•* * * *
“Captain Pintle”: The press has been
telling us again, in connection with the
abandoning of the Haiping off Fraser
Island (Q.), that boat work is always
done on the lee side, in order to take
advantage of the
shelter afforded by
the hull. This is cor-
rect for a vessel
under control, but
with stopped engines
and strong wind and
sea abeam the
weather side is the
safer from which to
leave a drifting ship.
To leeward she is
coming down on you
all the time. To
windward, the dis-
placed water flowing
up from under her
helps to prevent breaking seas, lowered
boats keep clear, and oil gains a longer
effect over the seas the further she drifts.
* * * *
“Odonto”: Water carried through
hundreds of miles of pipes may be bad
for teeth, children’s particularly (B.
24/3/’37), but I have a distinct recollec-
tion that when the Westralian Health
Department, many years ago, made an
investigation into the health of school-
children all over the State it wasn’t the
goldfields kids who came off worst from
the dental (or dentists’) standpoint. That
uncoveted distinction was reserved for
Albany, which has probably the most
genial climate and the most pleasant en-
vironment of all Westralian towns. The
only explanation suggested was a defi-
nite shortage of lime in the local H2O.
# * * *
“E.V.”: The Agricultural Society, to
which the Sydney R.A.S. succeeded, had
literary associations. The chairman was
Barron Field, friend of Lamb and Leigh
Hunt and writer of Australian verses
which amused those w'orthies. On the
committee were J. T. Campbell, Piper,
Robert Lowe, Throsby, lceley, John
Blaxland, Spark, Bowman and Hill.
They began operations with a dinner at
the Woolpack at Parramatta and the
formation of a stock fund from which
they sent £lOOO to England, half to be
spent on stud merino ewes, £3OO on
horses and £2OO on horned cattle. The
cattle —near-descendants of Comet, the
first bull in history to be sold for
£lOO0 —arrived in 1825 and were sold at
“the home of John Dixon, Steam
Engine,” near where Sydney Trades Hall
now stands. Of those who bought al
the sale or used the produce of the
society’s first effort most have left de-
scendants scattered through the pastoral
industry. A descendant of Robert Lowe
won second prize in The Bulletin’s last
S. H. Prior novel competition. Descen-
dants of Dixon (or Dickson), of Steam
Engine, are contributors to The Bulle-
tin, as have been Blaxlands and others.
The Kings are scattered from end to
end of Australia —Philip Goldfinch,
general manager of the C.S.R., came
from their blood and was brought up on
one of their farms at St. Mary’s in the
County of Cumberland. The Campbells
—J.T. was Macquarie’s secretary and
actual founder of the Bank of N. S.
Wales—are everywhere; so are the
Bowmans, the lceleys, Throsbys and
Sparks.
* * *
“Marsh”: “G.S.” (B. 10/3/’37) may
be right in ridiculing “Spare Corp.’s”
statement that the Germans gave the
British troops “a hot time with British
shells fired from British guns captured
from the Russians,” but I can certify
that Austrian and German airmen operat-
ing with the Turco-German forces in
Upper Palestine used British bombs of
the “daisy-cutter” variety which came
from the source indicated. With the rest
of a camel convoy escort I was shelter-
ing in a cave when a squadron of Ger-
man aeroplanes did a bomb-dropping
tour down the Jordan Valley, and our
camel lines, too good a target to miss,
came in for particular attention. Duds
proved the bombs to be of British manu-
facture, and later a captured German air-
man said they had been taken from the
Russians.
* »<* *
“Arcadian”: Not only did the late
Austen Chamberlain affect a monocle
like his father’s when he first arrived in
politics in the ’nineties (B. 24/ 3/ ’3 7),
but quite frequently he wore an orchid,
Joe’s pet vanity, in his buttonhole as
well. This led to a famous cartoon in
London “Punch” depicting father and
son standing side by side, as like, but
for the difference in years, as two peas.
The happiest touch was in the caption—
Orchides Ambo.
RETURN.
■‘TO OWNERS OF HENS.—The names and
addresses of all persons owning 12 or more domestic
hens must be registered with the secretary of the
lictorian Egg and Egg Pulp Marketing Board.
Failure to supply the required information is an
offence under the regulations of the Marketing of
Primary Products Act.” —Melbourne news item.
Board, for facts you seem to yearn;
As you are so very keen.
Please accept this slight return:
Fowls—Thirteen.
Little did I think your gaze
Would discern my humble pens,
Bringing glory in a blaze
To my hens.. .
Yet, O Board, I have to tell
(I confess it with a gulp)
That 1 never try to sell
Eggs or pulp.
These my fowls but do their task
In the cause of cake and pan,
Giving all the eggs I ask
When they can.
Board, my poultry number's low;
More than twelve I seldom boast;
Now and then some make a show
Boiled or roast.
So perhaps my word you’ll trust,
When you’re making up the books,
That the fowls I own are just '
Household chooks.
VICTORIA.
O’FIPP.


€
iOfort &\
\Ofor9j
J. 854
They ’re Smooth
and they do not
affect your throat
CRAVENA
ARE MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS.
<*:
Ail
2
M
, , v
a
THIS
GENE R A T
POLITICAL POINTS
Blackburn, M.H.R. for Bourke (Vic.),
goes back into the Fed. Lab. caucus, the
Vic. Labor conference having cham-
pioned his cause. Garden, M.H.R. for
Cook (N.S.W.), is still out and likely to
remain out.
Marketing - referendum voting in
Gwydir (N.S.W.) before U.A.P. news-
papers shut down on the painful sub-
ject :
No, 29,236; Yes, 16,442; majority for
No, 12,794.
And the Government whose injunctions
and warnings were so contemptuously
rejected is going to have a by-election in
Gwydir!
Federal Ministers are still trying to
persuade themselves that what hit them
on March 6 was “not a vote against the
Government.” Their oldest colleague
could tell them that a Government beaten
at a constitutional-alteration referendum
nearly always loses the ensuing election.
He had this experience after his referen-
dum reverses in 1911 and 1913, and
again in 1919, and though Bruce and
Page managed to scramble back in 1928
after their referendum reverse in 1926
they lasted only a year.
Stevens’s chance of balancing the
Budget in June looked blue at the end
of February, when his Government was
£2,180,000 down, but windfalls from the
estates of George Judah Cohen, the
banker, and Ned Moss, the punter, will
help. Cohen left half a million, Moss
£234,000. State death duties on these
amounts are 25 p.c.; the Common-
wealth takes 10 p.c. of the balance.
In Britain and Australia alike death
duties are nowadays so high that it is
possible for a Government to get most of
a rich family’s possessions if death strikes
two or more of its members down in the
course of a few years. For example,
Newton Moore, sometime Premier of
Westralia, left British estate valued at
£61,083, on which duty amounting to
£13,024 was paid. He had Westralian
property valued at £26,614 besides. The
widow gets a fifth, and when she dies
the authorities will take a considerable
slice of her share. This helps to explain
why so many ancient estates have come
on the British market, and why so many
sons and daughters of the old nobility
have turned radio announcers, gossip-
writers, ballet-dancers and crooners.
Wool provides only 2 p.c. of the total
tonnage handled by the Queensland
Government railways, but its owners are
made to pay 10 p.c. of the entire railway
revenue. It costs more for the out-west
producer to land a bale in Brisbane than
it does for the buyer to land it in Eng-
land.
Mackrell, the Victorian Minister of
Labor, is going to Maoriland to look into
Labor’s administration of unemployed-
relief. He will be the fifth Vic. Minister
to make the trip in 15 months or so, and
Federal Minister McLachlan, who lives
in Melbourne, was in M.L. lately as
“baggage-carrier for our brain trust.”
Eighteen months ago The Bulletin
protested against the alienation of any
part of Fishermen’s Bend, Melbourne,
and when the Dunstans persisted in sell-
ing 50 acres to General Motors-Holden’s
for £BOO an acre it told them they were
selling it too cheap. The late buyer of
33 acres of Fishermen’s Bend paid just
on £l5OO an acre, and agreed to comply
with conditions that were not imposed
on General Motors-Holden’s—building
to cost £lOO,OOO, plant to cost £60,000
and 2000 men to be employed six months
after the building is up.
The faction fight in Jock Garden’s
Cook (N.S.W.) electorate developed
into a small imitation of the Spanish war.
The rebels, led by Jock’s brither-Scot,
Sandy Mcßeth, once a vociferous Lang-
planner, held the fort until the last en-
gagement, when Sandy was ejected from
his stronghold by the Lang forces under
Kelly. Complaining that too many
foreign legionaries had been imported
into his fight, Sandy walked out of the
chair to hold a gathering of the clans for
the next engagement, Claymores versus
Shillelaghs.
Curtin came (o Sydney for the Easter
conference of the Lang faction, which can
now fairly claim to be the whole party.
For Curtin sided with Lang’s Inner
Group in its contest with the “rebels,”
and the rebs. humbly applied for a par-
don, which in most cases was refused. If
Curtin can induce Lang to stay away from
“Labor must demand the air.” — Mr. Curtin at the A.L.P. conference in Sydney.
“But look here, Curtin, as one comrade to another — haven’t we been getting
the air?”
Gwydir, Scully, who is no Lang man,
will win the by-election. But the con-
summation to be prayed for may require
an act of God such as would keep John
Thomas floodbound on his Hawkesbury
farm.
Maryvale-Sandy Hollow, Bungendore-
Captain’s Flat. and St. Leonards-East-
wood used to figure on a melancholy
list of projected N.S.W. railways, author-
ised by fool-Parliaments, on which the
men who would have to run them antici-
pated vast losses. The depression checked
railway construction —one of its few
merciful effects —but a stupid Govern-
ment is building Maryvale-Sandy Hollow
(anticipated annual loss, £90,700 p.a.),
and has agreed to build Bungendore-
Captain’s Flat at a cost of £160,000 (and
the rest), because a London co. has
promised to do some mining at Cap-
tain’s Flat. The last estimate of the
annual loss was £7300, but the mining
gentlemen have not even been asked to
guarantee it for two or three years.
They must smile to think what easy
marks there are in Sydney.
N.S.W. Forestry Commissioner Swain
has confessed that his State has “failed
in forest policy to such an extent that
it uses more than half the timber im-
ported into Australia.” Then he imagined
people “standing at the brink of the pit
in which one Australian forest service”
[N.S.W.’s, no doubt] wallows:
It seats its foresters in Austrian chairs
on Baltic floors, at redwood desks by Oregon
shelves, and then hangs native timber speci-
mens on the walls. On the horizon the
timber industry struggles to pay Australian
wages, to be spent on a new store, where
Australian carpenters are hammering up
redwood and Oregon, next door to the
district forestry office.
All that politicians have ever done to
improve this situation is to “stand at
the brink of the pit.”
Scully wouldn’t be Lang’s candidate
in Gwydir if the seat were a possibility
for a whole-hearted supporter of the
machine. The only Labor member for
Gwydir since the Webster days was Lou
Cunningham, an anti-Lang man, and
Cunningham survived only one election
under the Lang dictatorship.
The London correspondent of a Great
Daily reports that disgruntled Conserva-
tives are trying to bring Anthony Eden
down from his Foreign Office perch, and
seems to regard it as rank ingratitude.
But since Eden was promoted, with the
enthusiastic approval of Litvinoff, Britain
has lost not only the traditional friend-
ship of Italy but the direction of Belgian
and Portuguese foreign policy; before
Eden came along, Belgian and Portu-
guese Governments scarcely dared to
sneeze without British permission. It is
unreasonable to expect men bred in the
old-English tradition to admire these
performances.
The N.S.W. Railway Commissioner
has advised his Government that the St.
Leonards-Eastwood railway would cost
£929,000, “exclusive of land and compen-
sation.” Gross revenue he calculated at
“about £25,000, a large proportion of
which would represent earnings diverted
from existing lines,” and annual net loss
at £60,000. The Government is going
to build a £lOO,OOO road instead. Con-
struction of the railway that would lose
£60,000 a year is to be considered some
other time—election-time, no doubt.
Feeling horrified at the thought of
being without a Milk Board for even a
day, the. Stevens Government has made
fresh appointments while the present
board members are nursing their notices.
One of the new gentlemen is a dairy-
farmer and a Country Milk Suppliers
man; another is a Producers’ Co-op.
dairy expert, and the chairman-to-be was
in the dried-fruits line before he became
Trade Commissioner in Maoriland. Con-
sumers? Perhaps the caretaker will
represent them.
When Casey reached London, news-
papers hailed him as a sort of moving-
picture actor and annoyed him by putting
into alleged interviews with his wife inane
things she’d never said. Mrs. Casey was
naturally distressed. The fact is that
some of the silliest, nastiest' and most
mendacious rags in the world are pub-
lished in London these days.
One good thing will come of the im-
pertinences to which the Australian
Treasurer and his wife have been sub-
jected in London if the experience moves
Casey to support the securing for Aus-
tralia, through A.8.C., of a daily issue
of foreign news that will not go in for
inflammatory lies and half-lies.
The wisdom of Lloyd George:
In most Governments there are four or
five outstanding figures who, by excep-
tional talent, experience and personality,
constitute the inner council which gives
direction to the policy of a Ministry. An
Administration that is not fortunate enough
to possess such a group may pull through
without mishap in tranquil seasons, but in
an emergency it is hopelessly lost.
As for a Government which hasn’t even
two outstanding figures, and has had to
fill up with Parkhills and Patersons-
In London, it seems, “there are many
wild comments about Mr. Bruce, includ-
ing a weekly journal’s fantastic sugges-
tion that he is aiming at the Prime Min-
istership.” Well, why shouldn’t he aim
at the Prime Ministership? He was
Australian P.M. for nearly seven years,
and foreigners have said that there has
been no abler Chairman of the League
Council. On his administrative record
and public utterances, he is cubits ahead
of Mr. Eden and Mr. Duff Cooper, and
he has shown that he can keep his
temper and make friends where those
very second-rate politicians succeed only
in making enemies.
Australians don’t like dictators, and
that is only natural; but they should
ask themselves seriously what interest is
served by the furious campaign against
Mussolini, now in full blast, and whether
this brisk buyer of Australian wheat has
ever done them a particle of harm.
Every day some new discovery is made
about him. He has taken the Balearics;
he has fortified Pantellaria; he has
declared himself Protector of Islam, “as
the ex-Kaiser did”; he is just like
Antiochus the Madman, the Dean of
Winchester says so ; he has had a French
mistress ; his “army” in Spain has “suf-
fered another Caporetto,” and “the most
accepted idea at Rome is that Musso-
lini will use gas in Spain as soon as
possible.” What possible gain or glory
for the Empire can there be in thus
baiting this man and his people into
bitter enmity?
[Any referendum matter requiring a signature
is signed by J. E. Webb and Cecil Mann,
George-street North, Sydney.]


“I TOOK A RAGING DREAM IN TOW.”


The Richardson Chain Hotel
!
THE
HOTEL
LONDON
99 Elizabeth St.,
(next Collins St.)
Melbourne
Hot and Cold
Water, Telephone
and Central Heat-
ing, Reading Lamp
to Every Bedroom.
MELBOURNE'S MOST
CENTRAL HOTEL.
RATES PER DAY.
Room and Meals .... from 12/6
Room and Breakfast .. from 7/6
help to end
L WASTE
New Champion Sparking Plugs help you to
get full power and economy from every drop
of petrol. Don't blow good fuel money away
in smoke. Install new Champions once every
year. They pay for themselves in the fuel they
save.
rhampions
V FUEI
i
m Pi
sdfsadf
Sparking
Plugs
Obtainable at all leading automotive supply dealers
sadf
The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Head Office: Ai)2L4II)i, SOilfd AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A. •
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
. . £1,250,000
1,250,000
Capital Authorised
Capital Issued ______
Capital Paid Up .. •• ••
Reserve Fund .. . • • • • • . ’
(Used partly in business and paltry
in Government and approved
Securities.) r?i9M)000
Reserve Liability of Shareholders • • £1 > ’
Also 106 Branches and Agencies in South Aiistialia.
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET V E G-d.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughou
world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued
America and elsewhere. BiUs u6ua l
collected and proceeds remitted,
banking business transacted.
PERSONAL ITEMS
Of the men who organised the centen-
ary show of the Sydney R.A.S. in 1888
only one remains—F. A. Mackenzie, who
will celebrate his golden jubilee on the
council next year. A sturdy S. Coaster,
his forte at the Show is the supervision
of the dairy cattle classes, and in that
job his knowledge covers two or three
generations of breeders.
Robert H. Nesbitt, Australian Trade
Commissioner in Maoriland, offered the
R. H. NESBITT.
chairmanship of the N.S.W. Milk Board,
is a son of Tom Nesbitt, famous letter-
writing Town Clerk of Sydney. He
admits he has never seen a cow milked
and knows nothing whatever about
dairying. His line is accountancy.
The Ayrshire ring at Sydney R.A.S.
boasts supervision by the only one of
the Fairfaxes to run a dairy-farm. J. H.
Fairfax left Bellevue Hill in his early
years to settle on the land near Cam-
booya, on the Darling Downs, there
building up one of the finest Ayrshire
studs in Australia and becoming one of
the most-sought-after of show-ring judges.
The death of two Fairfax partners drew
him out of his isolation in middle age
to become a managing partner in John
Fairfax Pty., but he retains his interest
in stock and the land.
If S. M. Bruce becomes a British Min-
ister he won’t be either the first
Dominion-born statesman to hold such
office or the first with a chance of the
Prime Ministership. Bonar Law, the
tirst son of a Dominion to lead the Com-
mons, was a Canadian, a distant relative
of a Queensland Premier, William Kid-
ston ; and Lord Beaverbrook, who was
in charge of the Ministry of Propaganda
for a time, during the war, was also born
and bred in the maple-leaf country.
One losing election was enough for a
lifetime for Thomas Januarius Smith, re-
appointed as chairman of the N.S.W. Fire
Board after a successful demonstration
by 100 country brigades at Tamworth,
home town of Chief Sec. Chaffey, Minis-
terial head of the board. Smith was
one of the bright young Labor men
elected in 1917 who paved the way for
Storey’s N.S.W. victory in 1920, but in
the proportional scramble he was treated
unkindly, and could only watch the
procession. Consoled with a seat in the
Leg. Council a year later, he stayed there
until the Council was reconstituted in
1934. Deciding that elections were un-
healthy pastimes, he chose to stick to
the Fire Board job that had come his
way, and this he has held with diplomacy
and success through changes of Gov-
ernment for 12| years, now to go on
for another five.
Dr. Lindsay Dey, newly-fledged presi-
dent of the B.M.A. (N.S.W. branch), is a
Sydney Uni. graduate of the 1909 vin-
tage. He held resident jobs at Royal
Prince Alfred Hospital and at the Royal
Alexandra (commonly called the
“kids’ ”). Later he became an honorary
physician at the latter institution and at
the Royal North Shore Hospital, after
having in his early professional days
ploughed the raging main as surgeon in
one of B.P.’s ships. What he doesn’t
know about sick children isn’t worth
knowing.
Pilot Cameron, killed after taking
off from the Archerfield aerodrome
(Brisbane) in a Stinson mail ’plane in
a fog, was a bright, humorous, careful,
auburn-haired youngster. His was a fly-
ing family. He had been trained in the
difficult New Guinea school, and had
been flying Stinsons for some months.
Another brother is a pilot with Airlines
of Australia, and a third is abroad with
the R.A.F.
Frank Goldberg, pictured here by
Frith, is the head of the Goldberg Ad-
vertising Agency of
Maoriland and
Australia, Europe
and America. Born
in London 47 years
ago, he began
on the ground
floor as a composi-
tor, and as a young
man started a
printing works and
advertising busi-
ness. A break-
down in health
sent him in 1909
to Maoriland,
where he joined
the “N.Z. Times”
and afterwards
managed the
“Petone Chron-
icle.” In 1912 he
set up his office
for what is now
one of the biggest
THE TRAVELLING ADVERTISER.
advertising organisations in the Southern
Hemisphere. Business has taken him
eight times around the world and about
90 times across the Tasman. Recrea-
tions are mainly golf and an occasional
flutter at Randwick.
Some April birthdays:—•
Archbishop Le Fanu (Perth), Primate of Aus-
tralia, 67, and A. C. Davidson (Bank of
N.S.W.), 55, on Ist; Rabbi Freedman (Perth),
63, knight Walter Young (Adel.), 65, Speck
Treasurer Dwyer-Gray, 67, and veteran journal-
ist Fred Broomfield, 77, on 2nd; Dean Aickin
(Melb.), 68, and E. C. Riddle (Common-
wealth Bank), 64, on 3rd; Wing-Commander
Frank McNamara (first Aus. airman to win
V.C.), 43, and J. S. Rosevear, M.H.R. (Dailey),
45, on 4th; T. J. Collins, M.H.R. (Hume), 51,
on 6th; Brig.-Gen. Iven Mackay (Syd.), 55, on
7th; artist Arthur Streeton, 70, on Bth; former
Prime Minister J. C. Watson, 70, on 9th; poet
Bernard O’Dowd, 71, and Freda Bage (Women’s
College, Q. Uni.), on 11th; Dr. Wm. Maloney,
M.H.R. (Melbourne), 83, and ex-S.A. Senator
Mick O’Halloran, 44, on 12th; Justice Douglas
(Q.), 54, and Tas. Gov. Ernest Clark, 73, on
13th; Speck Hon. Min. Dr. F. J. Gaha, 43,
on 14th; Stanley Bruce, 54, Maj.-Gen. Gordon
Bennett (Syd.), 50, and Q. Premier Forgan
Smith, 50, on 15th; Gen. Chauvel, 72, and
Col. E. F. Harrison, M.H.R. (Bendigo), 57, on
16th; H. C. Brown (Federal Auditor-General),
63, and author Vernon Knowles, 38, on 17th;
Wm. Dixson (founder of Dixson Gallery, Syd.),
67, and Archbishop Head (Melb.), 63, on 18th;
former W.A. Premier Collier, 64, and Tas.
Senator J. B. Hayes, 69, on 21st; Prof. Char-
teris (Syd.), 63, and Clifford Hay (N.S.W.
Premier’s Dept., Syd.), 59, on 22nd; Q’land
Senator Cooper, 46, Capt. F. J. Bayldon (Syd.),
65, Prof. W. J. Dakin (Syd.), 54, and Judge
Macindoe (Vic.), 54, on 23rd; medico-knight
Maudsley (Melb.), 78, and Tas. Senator Grant,
59, on 25th; ex-Q’land Senator Drake, 87,
Col. White (Min. for Customs), 49, Mac-
Callum Smith, M.L.A. (W.A.), 69, H. J.
Stewart, M.A. (Wesley Coll., Melb.), 61, and
singer Florence Austral, on 26th; knight Henry
Braddon (Syd.), 74, W.A. Lieut.-Gov. Mitchell,
71, Prof. W. E. Agar (Melb.), 55, and former
Speck Premier Walter Lee, 63, on 27th; Justice
Dixon (High Court), 51, on 28th; knight Geo.
Julius (Industrial Research Council), 64, and
Prof. E. G. Waterhouse (Syd.), 56, on 29th:
Justice Evatt (High Court), 43, and Capt.
Edgar Johnston (Controller of Civil Aviation),
41, on 30th.
Poet, playwright and biographer John
Drinkwater, dead in England, was an in-
surance clerk before he stepped into
public notice as co-founder of Birming-
ham Repertory Theatre. Just after the
war his “Abraham Lincoln,” capturing
the American fancy, put him on the way
to Easy-street. Almost his last job was
to illumipate the life of Edward VIII.
for the Empire. He married Australian
violinist Daisy Kennedy.
Ned Moss, whose death was as un-
expected as the extent of the fortune he
left (£224,000), was one of the most
charitable sports-
men in Australia,
his private and
public benefactions
during his lifetime
probably equalling
the value of his
residuary estate. In
his youth a skilful
boxer, with a left
that flashed like a
rapier, he once fell
foul of Hock Keys,
the “p re 11 ies t”
boxer since Griffo.
They agreed to
settle their differ-
ence as sportsmen,
and Ned was hold-
ing his own in
good style when
the police came on
the scene. Both
ran. Later, Keys
sought Moss to in-
duce him to take
up boxing profes-
sionally, but Moss
in the meantime had
heard the name of
his opponent, and
when he sighted
Keys Moss bolted,
Keys after him.
Moss won the race
easily, but years
passed before he discovered why Keys
chased him.
Garth Klein, killed in the disaster
which wrecked Imperial Airways flying
liner Capricornus in France, was a son
of J. A. Klein, Director of Education in
W.A. Klein had been flying for Im-
perial Airways for several years. Trained
in the R.A.A.F. and the R.A.F., he was
a specialist in night flying and the hand-
ling of heavy bombing machines. A few
years ago he was offered the command
of the Hejaz Air Force, but the British
Foreign Office interdicted the appoint-
ment of a British officer, and he took to
commercial flying. Until recently he was
on the Cape-Cairo run.
“Huck” Finlay, new manager of 4QG
(Brisbane), was one of the finest N.S.W-
all-round athletes. A few days after his
“BUCK” FINLAY.
arrival in the northern capital he had
a Brisbane crew splashing in the Fair-
burn style. Still in his thirties, he should
prove an acquisition to Brisbane’s ath-
letic life. He is as good-humored as his
Mark Twainian nicknamesake.
The late Mabel Forrest, Queensland’s
lyrical poet and novelist, is to be
memorialised. For the official opening
several years ago of Brisbane City Hall,
Mabel wrote a poem, and a good one,
which was recited by Harry Borradale.
The Queensland Press Institute, of which
Mrs. Forrest was a founder and after-
wards life member, has had this poem
printed and framed in Queensland wood,
and it is to be hung in one of the main
entrances to the City Hall. This
memorial will do honor to a woman
who did much to advance Australian
literature and sentiment.
Vignette from the beef-cattle stalls:
Sunday afternoon before judging at Sydney
Show. Two men come along arm in arm, like
old friends just met. One slips easily into a
stall, runs his hand along a roan back, passes
it over the chine, down the face, feels legs, goes
back over the rump and tail all in a few
seconds. “That’s So-and-so,” he says. “I re-
member her at Brisbane Show last year.
Then he launches into an accurate description.
Only when he reaches for his companion s arm
do onlookers realise that the expert is blind.
The year before the war J. T. Scrymgeour, ot
Callandoon (Q.), led his first string of Short-
horns into the Brisbane Show ring when the
two giants of the ring were C. E. McDougall
and Arthur Lomax. Scrymgeour came back
from the war blind for life, but that did not
prevent him realising his ambitions. McDougall
is dead; Lomax has retired from the ring. The
names of their studs —Lyndhurst and Yandilla
—are no longer seen in show catalogues. They
have been replaced in the Brisbane champion-
ship lists by Netherby—name of the Warwick
(Q.), stud of Scrymgeour, winner of many
championships and one of the best judges in
Australia of beef cattle, which he. never sees
except through the touch of his sensitive
fingers.


a
m
n
i
i
mm
ALL'S WELL!'
Above all else, tke sound of tbe Skip’s
Bell reminds tke traveller tkat ke is far
removed from tke landsman’s ordinary
routine. It attunes kis senses to tke life
of skifting scenes and kappy times.
HEARING
TASTE ° SIGHT • SCENT • FEELING
•—Wketker you travel across tke world
or cruise to Papua, Fiji, New Guinea,
New Zealand or Tasmania .—■
R N ORIENT
GRATIFIES,
LUN E VOMfIGE
EVERV SENSE
ORIENT LINE
ROYAL MAIL STEAMERS
XS7 sadf


Black & WHITE WHISKY “PLURRY GOOD!”
“Western”: While Tony and his wife
and eight offspring certainly didn’t live
on the smell of an oilrag they practised
an admirable economy. With 25 cases
of grapes in addition to what he grew
Tony put down his year’s wine (he never
opened less than two bottles to a wel-
come visitor). When the first press was
drawn off he refilled the must vat with
water, making a second light brew that
did for the children. Refilling again and
allowing a good ferment, he next drew
off vinegar. But not' yet was the must
thrown away. In the vegetable garden
which earned his living grew beds of
giant capsicums. In the bottom of a
barrel went a layer of must. Then a
layer of ripe capsicums. Then another
layer of must, and more capsicums. Were
those capsicums good after about a
month of pickling! On olive oil, wine,
corned beef and capsicums, with lashings
of other vegetables, Tony’s eight grew
into as fine specimens as could be found
in the Commonwealth.
si: * * *
“Kerriki”: He came in sucking his
thumb noisily and cursing even louder
between intakes. A razor, Condy’s and
binder-twine were called for and succes-
sively applied to and above the punctures
on the ball of his thumb without waiting
for question. As the patient relaxed,
“When and where did it happen?” was
on every tongue. The place, of course,
was where the victim had been sinking
postholes; but, surprisingly, it was now
two hours since the encounter. Joe Blake
had crept out from under a rock that
had to be shifted, put his nips in and
scooted for the cover of a hollow log.
“The cow disappeared like greased light-
ning,” recounted the victim, “an’ it took
me quite a while to track ’im. First go
I tried to split the wood open with the
crowbar an’ get at ’im, then I set fire
t’ the log and waits f’r ’im t’ crawl out.
No sign of the sod! Then I ’as t’ wait
till the ashes cools a fit before I c’n
make certain that ’is bones are there.
Must’ve been a five-footer, th’ cow!”
* * * *
“Gryllus”: Not the least of the many
mental vicissitudes undergone by the sur-
vivors of the Stinson crash during their
dreadful nine days of waiting in a grim,
wet, mountain forest was the repeated
answering of their coo-ees by apparently
human voices. When they substituted
the “a-hoy-ee” bush call, that, too, was
answered after a while. The answerers
were Alberta lyrebirds, the most accom-
plished mimics of all the lyrebird
family. The species is almost entirely
restricted to the Macpherson Range
country nowadays, and is the most
northerly of the family.
* * * *
“Mornie”: The M.O. at Kaewieng
(N.G.) claimed authority over a mong.
which made up for its indefinite ancestry
by a display of pugnacity I’ve seldom
seen equalled. The D.O. had a pure
black chow, and the two dogs met with-
out fail every day in front of the District
Office and fought till forcibly separated.
One morning a learner on a motor-bike
skittled the battling pair. As soon as
they recovered breath, they set off in
opposite directions, and thereafter re-
garded each other with the deepest re-
spect, apparently somewhat tinged with
puzzlement as to why the other had never
uncovered such a devastating attack
earlier.
* * * *
“Koolpinyah”: Binghi’s opinion of
white “pfeiler” for tucker (B. 3/3/’37)
reminds me of the time I was part-
owner of a station in the N.T. and, kill-
ing a pig one day, asked old Frank, our
head “boy,” if he liked pork. “No more,
boss,” he said ; “that one all same baby
beef.” “What do you savvy about that
one, old man?” I asked. “When me
young pfeiler, boss,” he said, “my pather
bin kill dead a baby and tell me eat
some ; him talk-talk, ‘make you ’trong
pfeiler.’ No more gammon, boss, that
one all same piggy-piggy; him proper
sweet pfeiler. That way now me no
more eatum piggy-piggy him make
me tink longa that baby beef. You
know, boss, me white man only my skin
black, that’s all.” I would add further
to the credit of this Arunta tribe native
that he is one of the two blackfellows
who have saved my life.
* * * *
“Bert”: Australian weather produces
some odd phenomena. Here on Archer-
vale (W.Q.) I arrived home one brilliantly
clear evening, at the end of a showery
“ Cripes , y take y'r time with the barrer, don't y'? I've been 'oldin' this blarsted shovelful
f'r ’arf-an-hour!"
day, and went into the shed to hang my
saddle up. A moment later there, was a
roar of rain on the roof —and it per-
sisted. When I went out to investigate,
the rain was there all right'—pelting down
—but' there wasn’t a cloud in sight. After
about five or six points’ worth the. shower
travelled away. It was hardly an acre
in extent, though it was hitting the
ground pretty hard. I watched that
patch of water travelling across country
for quite a distance, still falling out of
nowhere.
;Jc H*
“Walkabout”: Celebrities of the out-
back? One of the best-known is Mick,
called the “Line Inspector” by all and
sundry from the Barcoo to the Nogoa
(C.W.Q.). Working to a timetable, Mick
hoofs it along the railway line between
Yaraka and Clermont, making periodical
trips into homesteads en route both
going and coming. Never seeking work
and scorning the old-age pension to
which he is entitled, Mick rarely draws
police rations ; he knows where the good
tucker stations are, and he always travels
alone to make sure of getting a full
handout. The old warrior seen in the
distance, humping a swag at which a
packhorse might jib, is one of the sights
which keep the outback the outback.
# * * *
“Jemel”: The new hand was placed
under me for the first day, and we had
the job of moving some hay. He
brought the horse and cart down and
backed rather well, but when I went to
pitch the first hay on I found that he
hadn’t backed quite close enough. “Push
him up a bit further,” 1 told him. 1
waited some minutes, but the cart hadn t
moved, and I began to wonder where
he’d got to. Then the horse turned its
head and glanced down, and I followed
its gaze. What a sight! The new hand
was underneath the horse, with his palms
on the horse’s belly, pushing upwards.
* * * *
“E.A.8.”: Beat this and play fair!
At Wokalup (W.A.) an Italian timber-
cutter was hewing jarrah when he was
bitten on the finger by a snake. He
placed the finger on the tree-stump and
chopped it off, then went to the camp,
from where he was rushed to hospital.
The wound healed, he returned to his
work, where he found the finger, very
black and swollen, still on the tree-
stump. With a stick he touched the
swollen member, which instantly burst
in his face. Some poison entered a split
on his lip, the result of a cold. That
night he died.
* * * *
“Dungeness”: The assistant supt. of
the Lockhart River Mission Station
(N.Q.) recently underwent an experience
which must have required a deal of
Christian fortitude. Bitten by redbacked
spiders on both feet whilst dressing, he
became rapidly paralysed and suffered
acute pain. Only natives were at the
station at the time, and they administered
the treatment of the wild by throwing
hot water over his body and gashing
him freely with broken glass to let the
poison out. After three days of serious
illness, he pulled through, to thank his
dusky medical attendants for saving his
life. Perhaps they did, but to prepare
for a possible repetition he would do
well to hold a short course on milder
forms of dealing with spider- or snake-
bites. The broken glass would do excel-
lently for cutting into the bites in order
to rub in potassium permanganate cry-
stals, and the hot water as footbaths to
alleviate the local pain.
# * * *
“Ekib”: Red was showing the parson
round his pigsties. The cleric praised
the pigs, which were to be trucked to the
bacon factory next day. “Yairs,” said
Red, “if everybody who goes to your
church was as fit to die as them pigs this
would be a better world to live in.”
* * ;]; *
“Nomad”: “Luckiest man alive,” said
Bill the post-splitter, “that’s why ’e is
alive. I was 40 yards away, ’avin’ a
mouthful o’ cold tea, when th’ gust o’
wind come, an’ ’e wus still workin’ on
th' lower scarf. When she creaked ’e
ran, but th’ wind took ’er th’ wrong
way, an’ ’e tripped right in ’er path.
Took me an hour to chop ’im out, an’ I
cut me flamin’ toe doin’ it. ’E’s alwuz
th’ lucky one,” sighed Bill, looking down
on the object of his remarks, who made
no reply, because of the layers of ban-
dages obscuring his face.
* 9fs SjC *
“Notaden”: The cleverest and most
adaptable predatory animal that Aus-
tralia contains is an imported one —the
so-called black or English rat, Rattus
raft us, as the technicians classify him. An
expert climber and powerful swimmer,
a fierce fighter on occasion, and such an
adept at concealment that up to recently
in England he has been regarded as quite
a rare animal, and his depredations
blamed on the brown or Norwegian rat.
He never burrows. One look at the
creature’s delicate, sensitive hands makes
this clear. They differ as much from
the thick paws of the brown rat as do
the hands of a musician from those of
a rock-chopper. Throughout historic
time Rattus has used the white man as
his servant, provider and unpaid land-
lord, rewarding him with plague, trichi-
niosis and trench fever.
* * * *
“Porcus”: Remarkable how rapidly
the wounds of a horse that has been
ripped from hip to hock by a croc.’s
claws will heal. At the time the horse
seems fit only for the friendly bullet;
within a fortnight it will be fit to face
the barrier. Also, when there’s a scrap
between two bush boars the victor, in
nine cases out of ten, only wants put-
ting in the pot and seasoning to make a
stew. Inside a week he will be gallivant-
ing about lively as a cricket'. The reason,
of course, is that neither horse nor boar
in these instances is cut; the wound is
always a tear, and that, taking the line
of least resistance, follows a course
which Nature heals most easily.
H*
“Billy See”: How legends grow!
“C. 8.” (B. 24/2/’37) quotes David Lind-
say in his diary of the Elder expedition
(1891-92) as saying that his camels had
to go without a drink for 24 days on a
stretch. No camel ever calved could do
that—lB days was Lindsay’s statement.
And they were specially selected beasts
at that. As for the Afghan keeping a
she-camel in a paddock in W. Queens-
land for 12 months—well, to start with,
W.Q. isn’t really dry; again, hasn’t
“C. 8.” ever heard of parakelia, or even
of pigweed, either of which will keep a
man alive? Travelling from Coolgardie
to Hall’s Creek (a really dry track) in
’96, David Carnegie kept his camels
going right up to Lindsay’s record by
grazing them on parakelia, which is often
found growing inside a circular clump
of spinifex.
* * * *
“Manah Boleh”: Lucky escapes?
Twenty years ago an English youngster
and a lad from Melbourne were staying
at Judge Herbert’s station at Koolpin-
yah (N.T.). Anxious to bag a buffalo
on their first shooting trip, they rode
five miles to a swamp and sighted a big
bull. He didn’t know what hit him when
the 45-90 barked, and just dropped on
his side and lay still. Two gleeful lads
approached and stood around admiring
the beast. Then one had his photograpn
taken in the approved manner —one foot
resting on the buff.’s shoulder and the
rifle prominent in the picture —and the
other had his taken sitting on the beast.
Back at Koolpinyah two abos. were sent
out to bring in the tongue and hide, but
they returned empty-handed. They had
found where the buffalo had been lying
stunned, also the marks plainly showing
where he had got to his feet again. 1
still shudder every time I look at those
photos.
THE TWO ROADS.
The old road through the trees pursues its cool
and shady way,
And dips to where the tiny creek slips down its
pebbles grey;
Through tall green walls of bush it goes to
where the ford has been,
And steeply up the further bank, the old log
bridge between.
The new road leaps from bank to bank, in
concrete, steel and stone,
And sweeps the hills in easy grades and leaves
the creeks alone.
The old road is a lonely road that dreams of
other days,
And scarcely heeds the passers-by that drift
along its ways—
The drover with his dusty sheep, a swagman
plodding slow.
The gold came down the old grey road —but
that was years ago;
The new road throbs with speed and sound,, and
racing tyres a-scream,
The headlights stab the peace of night, small
chance for it to dream.
The old road bravely climbed the hills, wher-
ever teams could go;
The new road winds around the spurs an extra
mile or so.
The new road sweeps across the plains for mile
on weary mile;
The old road planned, for man and beast, a
rest each little while,
And if the ruts and mud were deep you knew
you could depend
On finding succor, and a pub, close handy
round the bend.
VICTORIA.
A. G. BURNET.


“Bet'ul”: No doubt of the butting
force of the ram. One old reprobate
feeding along the open road outside
Warwick (Q.) took exception to a small
sedan car. As it came abreast the ram
lowered its head and charged. Result
was a badly-dented door, a windscreen
broken by the shock of impact and the
car forced off the road. Even before
the motorist had stopped the car the
battering-ram was back at his interrupted
breakfast.
* * * $
“Bogaduck”: Valuable weeds? In this
S.A. district mint escaped from a cocky’s
garden and took root in a big peat
swamp; within a few years the place
was a mass of it. The cocky regarded
it as an unmitigated pest till a manufac-
turing chemist spotted it when on a holi-
day tour. After that the cocky used to
cut and cart it to a shed and there put
it through a still in accordance with in-
structions from the chemist, who bought
the essential oil of mint thus produced
at several shillings per ounce. It paid
a good deal better than growing cow
feed.
* * * *
“Audax”: No, “Saga,” the magpie is
not a sagacious bird (B. 3/3/’37). As a
“Name-a eet ees Guiseppe Trevithick, Capitano. Gotta da job for da
Cousin da Jack, si, Signor ?”
house father he is a real nitwit. He’ll
build his nest far out on thin branches
a limb 40ft. from the ground, and
he’ll swoop viciously down on passers-by
without discrimination—-the little child,
the bent old granny and dignified Mrs.
Woolbale in her silks and furs. The
poor idiot imagines each one intent on
shinning up that smooth trunk and creep-
ing out on the perilous branches just to
get a couple of birds’ eggs! A sensible
bird would single out for attack his only
human enemy, the agile schoolboy.
“Lower Tops’l”: No need to worry
about tangled lifelines or paralysis when
pearling in Shark Bay (W.A.). The oysters
there are gathered in two or three feet
of water stretching over huge shallows
on the one low-tide a day. This oyster,
small like the Ceylon variety, but
peculiar to this large indentation, is col-
lected merely for pearls. Even on the
beaches you can pick up pearl shells,
often to find a pearl in the mollusc or
two or three pearls forming on the lip
of the shell, enhancing its value as an
ashtray. But keep your seats —they’re
not worth much. A few years back I
bought a matchboxful of seed pearls
there for three notes.
* Hs * *
“Beesknees”: “Granova” must have
tickled Aboites with his description of
the similarity of emus and turkeys (B.
3/ 3 / ’37). Though emus have wings,
these are short and are never used, be-
cause the birds have lost the power of
flight. Turkeys have big and strong
wings which they very often use. They
may walk up and down a fence for a
considerable time before they take the
notion to fly over it; but try chasing a
turkey down and you’ll soon see if he
can use his wings or not. Emus can
run as fast as a good racehorse can
gallop ; you don’t see many turkeys en-
dowed with such speed. As for mark-
ings, to my mind, guinea-fowl chicks
are marked more like emu chicks than
turkey chicks are.
* * * *
“T.P.”: “Osh” and his mate's foot
being saved by protecting roots from
wheel-mangling (B. 10/2/’37) call to
mind a man who fell from a wagon
bearing an O.S. in loads to Buninyong
in the roaring days. He pitched in
front of the wheels, and there was a
horrified rush back to pick up the
corpse. But he was quite well, having
dropped into a water-worn groove in the
track, just big enough to hold his frame
in safety. The journey back showed not
another where the thing could have hap-
pened. No, he. didn’t chance a ticket in
Miller’s sweep, the Tatt.’s of the period,
he being one of Oswald Pryor’s Wus-
leeyan local praichers; but the good
Looard knew all ’bout ut at nex’ prayer
meetin’.
* * * *
“Moe”: Our planing-mill engine-
driver had been running about for nearly
a week, oilcan in hand, looking for hot
bearings. He failed to find any, but still
insisted he could hear one “talking.”
“Lissen!” he shouted. “Can’t you hear
that dam’ cheep, cheep?” All I could
hear was the droning roar of two six-
head machines, and said so. “There it
is again!” he yelled. He cocked his
head on one side, listening intently, then
his face brightened. “Cripes,” he said,
“it’s not a flamin’ bearin’ at all! It’s
swallows buildin’ in the rafters.”
And so it was.
* * * *
“Elture”: “I was bit by a brown snake
once,” said Bill, pulling his trouser-leg up
to exhibit a great scar on his shin. “The
old bloke I was working for saved me,
though. When a snake bites he makes
two little marks. Well, the old bloke
got a hatpin he kept handy and put it in
one. hole and out the other; then he
pulled the skin as far out as he could and
chopped under the lot with his razor as
close to the bone as he could ; then he
rubbed it well with salt —nothing like
salt to draw the blood. He gave me a
good stiff brandy then and drove, me in
four miles to the doctor. The doctor
didn’t do anything to me at all. He
reckoned the old bloke cut enough meat
off me leg to make a hash. Saved me
life, anyhow.”
“All youse blokes take milk in y’r tea?”
“Mat’s Mate”: Having overstayed my
time in Moulamein (N.S.W.), I returned
to the camp on the river to find the
flood up and the locality under water. It
was pitch-dark, and as me and the neddv
floundered about in what had suddenly
become a terra incognita a voice hailed
us from the watery gloom. Search dis-
closed a dim figure, roosting on a stump
in the flood. “Who’s that?” I called,
through pretty sure of its identity. “Take
y’ pick,” came back Mat’s dry voice;
“Columbus just landed in America, Noah
on Ararat or a publican in the sort of
hell a Band of Hope would send him
to!”
* * * *
“Tongio West”: The end of the
branch railway line from Colac to
Crowes (Vic.) has a natural buffer-
stop—the stump of a tremendous forest
giant. Another novel terminus is at the
famous old mining township of Wal-
halla ; the station there is built over a
creek.
“Johnhop”: Introduced animals have
a habit of upsetting island economy.
Years ago Reevesby
Island, in Tumby Bay
(S.A.), was lively with
death-adders, so some
pigs were transferred
from the mainland to
clean them up. This
they proceeded to do
with gusto. Snakebite
mortality among the
porkers was practically
nil, either because pigs
are not easy to bite or
because venom injected
into a good layer of fat
is absorbed sufficiently
slowly to be innocuous.
When the reptiles were
thinned out the pigs
started on the island’s
large population of
mu 11 o n-b ird s. The
island was eventually
abandoned to the pigs,
and now a few hardy
descendants remain in undisputed pos-
session.
* * * *
“Ned the Ped.”: I’ve been bitten by
bull-ants, W.A. soldier ants, sergeant
ants (these, blonde devils about in
length and with a hostile range of well
over 6ft. anywhere around the nest) and
miscellaneous varieties of small ants, red
and black; but the absolute lightning
carrier was a half-inch joker with a
beautiful blue abdomen who resided in
numbers in Kalgoorlie. When one of
these got into the leg of a man’s pants
it bit all the way up or down, every nip
like a red-hot needle, with a cumulative
effect capable of temporarily crippling
anyone not extra hardy.
“W.P.T.”: Despite an abundance of
hollows in trees suitable for nesting sites
birds will frequently fight over one par-
ticular hollow. I saw a kookaburra, a
dollar-bird and a kingfisher fighting for
the possession of a hollow spout, though
there were several other similar spouts
in the same tree. The battle lasted for an
hour, but eventually the dollar-bird
drove the others away.
“Harry N.”: What has become of
those naturally-fashioned walking sticks
that were once so popular? Supple-
jack vines twining round small saplings
compressed the wood into regular
spirals. When these saplings were
seasoned and polished, they were fitted
with handles, generally bird’s-eye musk,
and made handsome sticks. They were
plentiful enough when I was a kid, but
I haven’t sighted one for years.
$ $ $ *
“Nor’-west”: Nature’s camouflage!
Walking a nor’-west beach, I was an-
noyed by a stray tyke which persisted
in following, and to discourage him
picked up the handiest pebble—and was
promptly nipped! The beach was strewn
with them, tiny crabs ranging from lin.
to across, rounded, water-worn and
not to be distinguished at a glance from
the beach shingle among which they
crouched. After I’d waited for a while
in absolute silence they came to life,
but the least movement, the faintest
flicker of shadow, and they were pebbles
again. Without such protection beach-
combing gulls would probably extermi-
nate the species in a generation.
* * * *
“Bogan Boy”: Disbelieve it if you
like, but R. Brook, of Westward Ho,
Boulia (W.Q.), rounded up two rams and
three ewes which had gone without water
for six months. When their overcoats
were removed they toddled along a flow-
ing bore-drain, bony but strong, and
ignored the water. Nor was there any
saltbush or parakeelya in the paddock;
mostly spiny spinifex.
jfc ❖ H* H*
“Nordbo”: The goats of Mount Mulli-
gan (N.Q.) roam at large over the sur-
rounding hills, and are brought in to the
township morning and night for the milk-
ing. Dingoes are numerous, and hunt
mainly at dawn and dusk. The nannies
know this, and before they are driven
to the milking yards “plant” their kids
so carefully that a good tracker could
miss them. There have been goats in
Mount Mulligan for some 40 years, in
which period they have experienced the
peaktime of dingo activity, and perfected
their plan of defence against it. 1 vote
that “goat” be no longer an epithet de-
noting feebleness of intellect.
* * * *
“Salmon Gums”: A recent Bulletin
jokist’s drawing of tree-felling reminded
me that I’d never seen the saddle-cut
depicted. This is a style favored by some
Westralian axemen in dual work. Each
man takes a scarf at an angle of about
45 degrees to the trunk, the two cuts
meeting at right angles, and each clears
the other’s point. The other side is then
cut similarly, and the style takes its name
from the stump, which remains with two
peaks or saddles. Of course, it wouldn't
do for the really big stuff, but for any-
thing up to five feet through it’s excel-
lent. Also it’s a good cut for learners,
few of whom can manage a straight cut.
NICOTINE QUERIES.
“Before the N.S.W. Industrial Commission it was
claimed that women were taking over the tobaeco-
eelling business. There was a time when it was in
the hands of men.
“Mr. Justice Browne: ‘Yes; but that was when
men were men and smoked pipes.’
“Mr. Justice Webb: ‘Or chewed tobacco.’ ”
Where’s he who smoked from the cherry bowl,
Or the briar pipe with the amber stem,
Who cut a fill from tobacco roll
And lit with an old-hand’s stratagem
The weed to a ruby diadem,
Or puffed at cigar or strong cheroot?
The Judges sigh, as in requiem—
Gone, like the two-tailed bandicoot.
Where are the men with the iron jaws
Who knifed a quid from a rank, black cake,
And shoved it into their well-fanged maws
With never a sign of tremor or quake?
Gohe, like the double-headed snake.
Say, where are the men of yesterday
With the teeth that seldom would ache or
break;
Vanished and gone with the one-horse shay?
Where have the dodo and moa fled
From their old-time haunts ? I do not know.
Where are the rum and the beer that shed
Across the bar their glimmer and glow,
The pre-war tipples of years ago?
As hard to find as the mastodon,
Last autumn’s leaves or last, winter’s snow.
And where has the old pipe-smoker gone?
Envoi.
Let others tell of the flaccid fag.
And when it started its marathon.
But where’s Barrett’s twist? Where’s the old
black shag?
And where have their hard-boiled smokers
gone?
N.S.W.
JOHN BARR.


sadf
A private executor
is presumed to
know the LAW
The full responsibility for an estate during its
administration falls on the trustee’s shoulders.
He is presumed to know the law in all its
intricacies, and is held responsible for any
mistake.
Many trustees, realising the burdens placed
upon them, prefer to transfer their responsi-
bilities to The Trustees Executors and Agency
Company Limited, which devotes its whole
time to the duties of Executor and Trustee.
Private trustees desirous of relinquishing
their duties are invited to make an appoint-
ment to discuss how this may be conveniently
arranged.
the trustees executors
«. .UillVI'Y COMPANY LTB.
THE OLDEST TRUSTEE COMPANY IN AUSTRALIA
412 Collins Street, Melbourne ... 1-5 Bligh Street, Sydney
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves and Undivided Profits, £951,874.
Trust Assets under Administration, £28,800,000. £20,000 has been lodged
with the Colonial Treasurer of New South Wales and £10,001) with the
Treasurer of Victoria as guarantees for the proper Administration of Estates.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman)
Maj.-Gen. Sir Brudenell White, K.C.B., K.C.M.G., K.C.V.O., D.S.O.j
R. O. Blackwood, D. Stuart Murray, John Fordyce,
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G.: Sir Lennon Raws, C.B.E.
N.S.W. DIRECTORS:
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G. (Chairman), W. D. Stewart,
R. T. Hilder.
General Manager: W. Sydney Jones; Manager: K. M. Hughes
The WILDCAT
COLUMN
General Industries, Ltd.
, Dividends
Pref. To Re- Re-
Mar., Profit. 7 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.
1928* 42,186 12,906 5 p.c. = 27,394 1,886 1,886
Feb.,
1929 90,777 20,229 10 „ „ 70,240 t 308 2,194
1930 83,387 20,489 8 „ „ 44,506 18,392 20.586
Deficit.
Written off shares in other cos., £83,588.. 63,002
Loss.
1931 695 10,261+ Nil 73,958
Written off shares in other cos., £68,447.. 142,405
1932 125 Nil Nil 142,530
Written off shares in other cos., £17,348.. 159.878
1933 358 Nil Nil 160,236
Profit.
1934 4,946 Nil Nil 155,290
Reserves.
Written off ord. capital, £319,077 .. 163,787
Written off shareholdings, etc., £157,238.. 6,549
1935 75,530 75,353§ Nil 177 6,726
1936 76,391 20,796 10 p.c. = 55,262 333 7,059
1937 101,089 20,799 12J „ „ 79,646 644 7,703
*Eight months,
flncluding 5 p.c. on 294,419 deferred ords. p.c.
§ Arrears from Sept. 30, 1930, to Feb. 28, 1935.
This is a holding co., so the position
cannot be judged entirely by the figures
in the table. The subsidiaries manufac-
ture stoves, baths, gas-heaters, radiators,
earthenware and other builders’ and
plumbers’ requisites. The organisation,
patiently developed by Harry Spring, its
chairman and managing director, spreads
throughout the Commonwealth and
Maoriland, and is the largest thing of
its kind in Australasia. The holding co.
was formed in 1927 to merge the inter-
ests of Metters and K.F.B. Later K F.B.
was absorbed by Metters; meanwhile an-
other subsidiary (K.F.B. Pty.) put up a
factory at Footscray (Vic.). Metters also
owns a subsidiary of its own that oper-
ates a factory in Maoriland.
Early performances after the merger
were very encouraging. But, as usually
happens in a slump when heavy plant
is involved, it was impossible to get over-
head back in proportion to the drop in
turnover, which fell to about one-third
of what it used to be. Hence the subsi-
diaries registered losses aggregating
£163,195 for the three years to the end
of 1933. Then the tide turned, and, to
put its accounts on a more even keel,
the holding co. lopped 7s. 6d. per share
(£319,077) off its ords., reducing paid
capital to £828,835 in 297,050 £1 7 p.c.
prefs. and 850,856 ords. of 12s. 6d. each.
Presently expanding activity in the
building trade, competition in the fiat
business and delayed demand for re-
placements, etc., sent turnover bounding
along, and £105,244 of fresh ord. capi-
tal was issued, one for five at par (12s.
6d.), in November, 1935. That raised
paid capital to its present figure —
£934,291 in 297,124 £1 prefs. and
1,019,467 ords. of 12s. 6d. cash. The
lot, together with reserves and £6847
coming to outsiders, was represented by
shares in subsidiaries (£947,476) and ad-
vances thereto (£59,551) at the end of
February.
The combined earnings, etc., of the
subsidiaries compare as follows:
To
Dec., Profit. Dividend. Reserves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1929.. 83,926 83,398 528 235,113
Loss.
1930.. 77,381 6,300 151,432
1931.. 68,466 Nil 52,966
1932. . 17,348 Nil 65,618
Profit.
1933.. 6,470 Nil 72,088
Unexplained reduction in capital,
£182,361 .. .. .. 254,449
Unexplained reduction in reserves,
£97,428 157,021
1934.. 81,280 76,288 4,992 162,013
Unexplained reduction, £l3B . . 161,875
1935.. 96,327 78,021 18,306 180,181
Unexplained addition, £BO9 .. 180,990
1936.. 130,868 100,176 30,692 211,682
The sharp spring of £34,541 in last year’s
net result was due mainly to continued
expansion of building activity, etc. Of
the £100,176 paid in divs., £100,106 be-
longed to the holding co., which also
earned £983 on its own account, mak-
ing its total profit for the year £101.089,
or enough to pay its pref. div. (£20,799)
and show 12.6 p.c. on its ord. capital. It
was thus able to lift its ord. div. from
10 p.c. to L2i p.c., the final being at the
rate of 15 p.c. p.a. The £30,692 of the
year’s profit undistributed by the subsi-
diaries was equal to 4.8 p.c. on the hold-
ing co.’s ord. capital. On these figures
the organisation earned more than
enough for the holding co. to pay its
pref. div. plus 15 p.c. to the ords. last
year.
How the current year will pan out will
depend largely upon conditions in the
building trade, etc., in which activity
shows signs of easing at the moment, and
upon costs, which are definitely on the
up-grade. There is always the possibility
of industrial troubles interfering with the
co.’s trading activities, too.
The market sums up the risks by pric-
ing the holding co.’s ords. at 21s. 3d,,
at which figure the return is 7.3 p.c. on
a 12+ p.c. div. basis. The prefs. at 245.
return 5.8 p.c. Including the subsidiaries’
reserves, the net tangible cover is £3 17s.
Bd. prefs. and 16s. Bd. ords.
Here is the position as the combined
balance-sheet figures of the operating
cos. show it: —-
1929. 1934. 1935. 1936.
Paid capital.. £904,531 £722,170 £792,170 £792,170
Sundry creditors 227,483 159,682 152,155 226,306
Freehold . . 400,665 303,128 315,908 349,312
Plant, etc. . . 350,453 288,524 327,688 368,165
Stocks . . 420,039 306,946 344,695 374,751
Book debts .. 232,184 178,864 173,119 175,786
Shares other cos. 35,723 27,350 27,631 27,631
Cash.. .. 576 586 557 564
To add £33,404 to the book value of
freeholds, £40,477 to plant, and carry
an extra £30,056 of stocks and £2667 of
debtors’ balances, £74,151 was added to
the debt last year. Special allowance has
been made for the possibility of a drop
in the price of stocks. The contraction
in the more or less liquid surplus
(£324,795, including stocks but not share-
holdings) was £41,421, owing to the out-
lay on fixed assets.
Finney, Isles and Co. (Brisbane)
To
Jan., Profit. Dividends. Re»<_,ves. Reserves.
ij £ £
1927.. 20,313 8 p.c. = 22,079 27,027
1928.. 5.360 Nil 8,360 35,387
Loss on Maryborough branch, £12,247.. 23,140
1929.. 10,358 5 p.c. -13,812 19,686
1930.. 19,651 7 „ „ 19,337 314 20,000
1931.. 4,949 24 „ „ 6,906 18,043
1932.. 12,207 4 „ „ 11,050 1,157 19,200
1933.. 18,283 6 „ ~ 16,575 1,708 20,908
1934.. 25,027 7 „ „ 19,337 5,690 26,598
1935.. 35,506 7 „ ~20,410 15,096 41,691
Profit on sale of property, £13,121.. 54,815
1936.. 45,868 7 p.c. = 25,640 20,228 75,043
1937.. 49,786 8 „ ~29,454 20,332 95,375
Prospects for shareholders in this Bris-
bane department store are more encour-
aging than at any time during the last
15 years. For the dozen years to the
close of accounts in 1921 they averaged
8.1 p.c., sweetened with £54,514 of. bonus
scrip. For the next decade it was a
struggle to pay an average of 5.6 p.c.,
chiefly because the attempt to widen the
co.’s connections in the country, largely
on a t.-p. basis, failed to produce the
results expected. £o it was decided to
concentrate on city turnover ; but slump
interfered with the new plans, and the
management had to mark time with its
programme. Meanwhile, there was a par-
tial swing of the shopping public back to
Queen-street, and, with everything ready
for expansion of the business when
opportunity offered, earnings responded
as conditions improved.
Now consider these figures:
1928. 1934. 1936. 1937.
Capital . . £275,993 £276,243 £366,288 £368,176
Liabilities . . 173,032 102,057 47,494 73,732
Freehold . . 128,037 153,940 236,625 257,349
Plant, etc. .. 31,529 38,828 55,408 79,448
Stocks . . 191,586 158,039 179,287 189,966
Book debts, etc. 126,828 39,156 47,878 56,338
Cash and in-
vestments . . 6,431 44,505 8,626 9,67 i
Since 1928 the co. has completely re-
modelled and extended its premises. It
added £129,312 net to the book value of
freeholds and put an extra £47,919 into
plant, etc. To help meet the outlay and
clip £99,300 off the amount coming to
outsiders, £92,183 of fresh capital was
got in, and debtors were reduced
£70,490. Stocks are down £1620.
while gross earnings have increased
by £71,838 and ordinary trading
exes, by only £7764. It all reflects
a live trading policy, including a brighter
store, better trading facilities, good buy-
ing (which means the weeding out of
dead lines and livening turnover in
others) and a tight hold upon outgoings.
Movements in the figures over the 12
months covered by the latest accounts
are mainly connected with the new
building put up on adjoining land
bought from the Brisbane Permanent
Building and Banking Co. for £45,000 a
couple of years ago. When the books
last closed, the more or less liquid sur-
plus (£182,243, including stocks) was
only £6054 less than at the previous bal-
ance, notwithstanding the addition of
£44/764 to the. book value of fixed assets.
Last year more people came to the
store, and the volume and value of sales
increased. Gross earnings (£239,046)
were up £30,592. Ordinary trading exes.
(£166,612) took £24,727 of the increase,
reaching 69.7 p.c. of gross as against
68 p.c. for the previous term. After set-
ting aside £22,648 (up £1947) for taxa-
tion and contingencies, the net result was
£3918 better at 13.5 p.c. on capital as
against 12.5, 9, 6.6, 4.4, 1.8, 7.1, 3.7 and
3 p.c. back to 1928. The div. was lifted
a point, making it 8 p.c., the final being
at the rate of 9 p.c. p.a. There is no-
thing in sight at the moment to suggest
a recession in earnings.
The market prices the fully-paid pound
ords. at 31s. 6d. as against 295. a year
ago. At the higher figure the return is
5 p.c. on an 8 p.c. div. basis, or 5.7 p.c.
on a 9 p.c. distribution. The cover is
255. 2d. in net tangibles.
South Australian Brewing Co.
Writ- Added
ten to Re- Re-
Feb., Prefit. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1927.. 57,553 10 p.c. i= 40,000 10,000 7553 15,119
Freehold depreciation and insur-
ance reserves taken in, £60,065 .. 75,184
1928.. 54,119 10 p.c. = 40,000 10,000 4119 79,303
Reserves brought to light, £44,756 .. 124,059
Reserves capitalised, £lOO,OOO .. 24,059
1929.. 64,045 10 p.c. = 50,000 10.000 4045 28,104
1930.. 62,242 10 „ „ 50,000 10,000 2242 30,346
19.31.. 61,784 10 „ „ 50.000 10,000 1784 32,130
1932.. 46,736 6 „ ~ 30,000 7,500 1
Reserved for bad debts, £7500 J
1933.. 48,660 6 p.c. = 30,000 7,500 (
Reserved for bad debts, £7500 J 6bl}U <s ‘ ,ozo
1034 . . 49,915 64 p.c. =32,500 7,500 ) , ql , , 9 ~,
Reserved for bad debts, £5OOO f
Inner reserves disclosed. £120.000 . . 162,441
1935.. 52,155 7p.C. = 35,000 7,500 \ M nQfi
Reserved for bad debts, £5OOO } a
1936.. 56,645 74 p.c.= 37,500 7,500 1 , 7 o
Reserved for bad debts, £5OOO f ” ’
1937.. 67,124 9 p.c. = 45,000 22,124 195,865
This co. has a firm hold on a good
slice of the trade in S. Aus., where it has
been steadily buying up hotel freeholds,
thus widening and anchoring turnover —
there is no price-cutting in the trade.
Also, the board has not overstated the
position in the past —some tidy sums
(aggregate £254,133) have been shaken
out of the family stocking since 1924.
Slump and its concomitants, including
unemployment, cut into earnings, of
course. Still, the div., which had been
steady at 10 p.c. for 13 years to the close
of accounts in 1931, never dropped below
6 p.c., and the £250,000 of bonus scrip
scattered in ’24 and ’2B made 6 p.c.
worth 12 p.c. on capital as it stood
before the gifts. As conditions improved
so did earnings and divs.
Last year trade generally continued to
expand and the outlook became clearer.
The average weekly bank clearances in
Adelaide for 1936 were £2.8 million, or
over a million more than the average tor
1935 and not much short of the aver-
age for 1929 (£3 million). The average
number of trade-unionists unemployed
in S. Aus. grew from 15.7 p.c. for 1929 to
34 p.c. for 1932; the figure dropped
to 14.7 p.c. for the December quaiter
of 1935 and to 9.9 p.c. for the last
quarter of 1936. For the 12 months
covered by the latest accounts, the spring
in this co.’s gross earnings from trading
(£78,674) was £16,541. Rents, etc.
(£47,552), turned in an extra £3568, mak-
ing the growth in total gross earnings
(£126,226) £20,109. Exes. (£60,613, in-
cluding £30,548, up £9348, for repairs
and bad debts) made off with £9654 of
the increase. Including an unexplained
addition of £l5ll to the insurance re-
serve (£22,158), the net result was
£10,479 better at 13.4 p.c. on capital,
compared with 11.3, 10.4, 9.9, 9.7, 9.3
and 12.3 p.c. back to 1931. The div.
was lifted \\ p.c., making 9 p.c. for the
year, the final being at the rate of 10
p.c. p.a.
The market, with one eye on the past
and the other on conditions as they are
to-day, entertains no doubts about the
10 p.c. being maintained. It therefore
prices the pound shares at 50s. 6d. as
against 475. a year ago and 28s. two
years before that. The return at 50s. 6d.
is 3.5 p.c. on a 9 p.c. div. basis, or a
shade under 4 p.c. on a 10 p.c. distribu-
tion. Visibly the cover is 275. lOd. in
net tangibles.
Here is the position so far as balance-
sheet figures show it:
1928. 1933. 1936. 1937.
Paid capital.. £400,000 £500,000 £500,000 £500,000
Sundry creditors 212,081 154,763 72,213 101,266
Freeholds,
mac hinery
and plant.. 444,791 390,589 535,223 070,363
Stocks.. .. 24,173 17,683 20,572 20,960
Book debts*.. 47,369 38,597 29,765 34,229
Advances . . 195,035 259,528 157,871 151,84<_
Cash .. •• 10,017 15,892 35,022 44,72 <
* Includes shareholdings.
Last year £35,140 was added to the book
value of freeholds, and £29,053 to the
amount coming to outsiders, which in-
cludes an unspecified provision for taxa-
tion. The contraction in the more or
less liquid surplus (£150,502) was
£20,515.
Australian Mont de Piete (Melb.)
To Re- Re-
Oct., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1926.. 5808 121 p.c. = 4995 813 16,48-j
1927.. 5504 121 „ „ 4995 509 16,994
1928.. 5626 121 „ „ 4995 631 17,6-a.
Added property reserve, £14,281.. 81,906
1929.. 4618 11-i p.c. = 4495 123 32,0-9
1930.. 2487 91 „ „ 3796 30,720
Written off stocks, £3148
1931.. 4230 10 p.c. = 3996 234 27,806
1932.. 5360 12£ „ „ 4995 365 28,171
1933.. 4263 121 „ „ 4995 —27.43 J
1934.. 4285 lit „ „ 4495 27.2.9
1935.. 5101 121 „ „ 4995 106 27,33 a
1936.. 5230 124 „ „ 4995 235 27,»<0
This little co. has been in the three-ball
business in and around Melbourne tor
55 years, and for the last 25 of them divs.
have averaged a shade over 11 P-c. h 5


LITCHFIELDS
1937
Issue
SELECTIVE SECURITY CERTIFICATES
5| %
Your investment is spread
over these companies:—
Electric Eight Power anti
Cables
Adelaide Electric Supply
Pood, Catering and Allied
United Provisions
Nestle’s 8% Pref.
Breweries and Totoacco
Tooth’s Breweries
Gras
South Australian Gas
Colonial Gas
Motors, Transport and
Engineering-
General Motors Holdens
Dunlop Perdriau
Adelaide Steamship
Melbourne Steamship
Textiles
Lustre Hosiery-
Beau Monde (Aust.) Ltd.
Berlei
Newspapers & Publications
Associated Newspapers
Gordon & Gotch
Pastoral and Realty
Wilcox Mofflin
Intercolonial Investments
Miscellaneous
Automatic Totalisators
Amalgamated Pictures 10%
cum. par. pref
Each one of these companies
.? a fl*st class investment in
itself-—together the combina-
tion is unbeatable.
SAFETY Your investment how-
ever small, is spread
over the whole of the com-
panies listed, representing the
best of the industrial and com-
mercial securities of Australia.
RETURN Your dividend at the
rate of 5-2 % per an-
num is paid to you on the 1 sth
of June and the 15th of Decem-
ber. In addition any apprecia-
tion of the underlying securities
becomes a bonus to the certifi-
cate holders.
EXACT You know all the
KNOWLEDGE companies listed
which back your
investment and you have an easy
way of checking their intrinsic
individual value by reference to
the daily quotations.
EASY You can purchase an
TO BUY interest in all of the
companies listed
alongside for as small a sum as
£50 —the price of one certifi-
cate —but you do not have to
find all the sum at once. The
terms are £5 on application and
£1 per month per certificate.
SECURITY OF CAPITAL WITH STABILITY OF INCOME
Colonial Mutual
Phone B 5271
LITCHFIELDS (A/SIA) LTD.
Buildings St. George’s Terrace, Perth
Write for our Booklet
The “Curvilinear” Concentrating Table
SEND FOR
BULLETIN
AND
PRICE.
in
SIMPLE
AND
RELIABLE.
We aie the patentees and manutacturers of this table. Call fox' a demonstration.
Can also quote for all classes of mining machinery, including stamp batteries,
amalgamating tables, magnetic ore separators, classifiers, agitators, everlasting
valveS, water- and oil-filters, Rendrock and all other explosives and accessories.
Electric motors and Ellison switch gear.
GUTHRIDGE, LIMITED,
Sole Patentees and Manufacturers,
10-12 PARRAMATTA RD., CAMPERDOWN, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Fill up at the pump
that supplies
greater mileage . . .
SUPER
Plus
ETHYL
COLOURED RED
GIVES MILES
BETTER MOTORING
C63/12/SP
jPItHfS BENZOL (tinted Blue) IS
sm
imiiiim
For the greatest satisfaction
Roof your home with
“RED ORB"
Lysaght’s Rigid Roofing Sheets
RED ORB is the finest quality galvanized iron procur-
able, and in addition to the usual virtues of galvanized iron
it is extremely rigid and will withstand rough usage in handling
and erection, without losing shape.
RED ORB is manufactured from 100% Australian
materials at Lysaght’s Newcastle Works and also at Port
Kembla.
ROLL, which is distributed through the various city
merchants, will give you a perfect rolled edge for “RED ORB”
cheaply and at less trouble than any other method.
Further particulars concerning “RED ORB” and Edge Roll
may be obtained from John Lysaght (Aust.) Pty., Ltd.
Copies of Lysaght’s “Referee”—a 128-page booklet of useful
information for ironworkers, pastoralists and country residents
—may also be obtained free, and post free, from John Lysaght
(Aitst.) Pty., Ltd., Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Fremantle.
remarkably good showing during the
slump is due largely to transactions in
connection with real-estate. Though it
borrowed to buy, it got out before the
big break in values, repaid the mort-
gages and most of the deposits, and
pocketed £14,281 of profit on the deals.
This profit was used to extend the co.’s
lending connections:
1924. 1931. 1935. 1936.
Deposits .. ..£14,810 £4,240 £21.190 £21,890
Mortgages.. .. 34,390 34,050 32,850.
Other liabilities.. 15,233 701 7,516 10,957
Total liabilities £ 64,433 £4,941 £62.756 £65,697
Advances, stocks, etc. 40,554 59,022 59,265 62,344
Freeholds, etc. .. 62,084 8,283 67,570 67,896
Liquid assets .. 8,935 7,400 5,713 5,484
In 1931, when property values were a
lot lower than they are to-day, the co.
bought part of the old Colonial Bank
freehold at the corner of Elizabeth and
Little Collins streets. Small additions
have been made to freeholds since, and
the co. has gone a bit into debt again for
the purpose. Still, unless something very
unexpected happens, there is nothing to
worry about on that score. When the
books last closed the floating debt
(£32,847) was more than twice covered
by liquids, advances, etc.
Property and other income are not
separated in the accounts. Last year a
new branch, making a dozen in all, was
opened at Fitzroy. Net earnings im-
proved a trifle, reaching 13 p.c. on the
£39,960 of capital as against 12.7, 10.7,
10.6, 13.7, 10.5, 6.2 and 11.5 p.c. back
to 1929. The div. was kept at 10 p.c.,
and a 2\ p.c. bonus was again added,
making 12-\- p.c. for the year.
The shares, which are tightly held,
have not appeared on ’Change for some
time. The net tangible backing is 335.
lOd. per pound of paid capital.
Holeproof, Ltd. (Vic.)
f Dividends Nominal
T _ „ i Pref.— N To Re- Re-
.lune, Profit. 8 p.c. 6 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.*
„ £ £ £ £ £
1933.. 5,734 Nil Nil 5734 19,626
1934.. 10.982 92474 Nil 1735 21,361
Preliminary exes., £2569 .. .. 18,792
Dec., £
1934 J. 6,904 1027 500 6 p.c. - 2749 2628 21,420
1935.. 15,199 2194 3000 8 „ „ 7330 2675 24.095
1936.. 22,626 2214 3000 10 „ „ 9162 8250 32,345
Subject to goodwill and trade-marks (£15,934
at Dec. 31). t Includes arrears. t Six months.
To have developed from a small con-
cern whose products were little known
outside its home market (Melbourne)
into Australia’s largest producer of
women’s and men’s hosiery combined,
and this inside the last seven years, is
an achievement of which this co. can
rightly feel proud. It used to be Staley
and Staley, Ltd., which took over a pro-
prietary of the same name in August,
1929. The public became interested early
in 1930, when the 8 p.c. first prefs. were
listed. Paid capital was then £77,375,
and the co. was employing approxi-
mately 350 hands ; now there are over
1000 names on the payroll, and paid
capital is £169,306. Then an agreement
was entered into with the Holeproof
people, of U.S.A., in respect of technical
matters and the Australian market. But
before the co. could get into its stride
slump, accompanied by a hand-to-mouth
policy in the retail trade and price-cut-
ting, owing to a scramble for ready cash,
interfered with expansion of the business
and its ability to earn profits.
During this mark-time period, however,
the management did a lot of spadework
in preparing a market for the co.’s
products by advertising. Also, attention
was turned to manufacture of medium-
quality goods, with encouraging results.
As conditions improved, turnover ex-
panded rapidly, to the benefit of costs,
and selling prices were reduced, thus in-
creasing the co.’s competitive power in a
market where plant generally was already
able to take care of a much greater de-
mand than existed. After a 3i years’ wait
the prefs.’ slate was cleared in 1934, when
the four years’ drought for the ords. was
also broken with a 6 p.c. distribution.
Then plant had to be extended in order
to cope with the growth in turnover. To
help meet the outlay, 50,000 second prefs.
were offered and heavily oversubscribed.
That raised paid capital to its present
figure in 27,685 8 p.c. firsts and 50,000
6 p.c. second prefs. and 91,621 ords.
With the help of the new plant, earn-
ings improved, and turnover, especially in
men’s hosiery, lengthened its stride again
last year, when the spring in gross earn-
ings (£91,447) was £20,997 (30 p.c.). Exes.
(£68,821) took £13,570 of the increase,
leaving the net result £7427 better at
£22,626, the best yet. It was enough to
pay the pref. divs. (together £5214) and
show 19 p.c. on ord. capital as against
10.9 p.c. for the previous term. The div.
was lifted another couple of points,
making it 10 p.c. The £8250 that re-
mained raised nominal reserves to
£32,345 —they are labelled nominal in
the table because they are subject to
£15,934 of goodwill.
Here is a bird’s-eye view of the finan-
cial structure:
1934. 1935. 1936.
Ord. capital .. .. £91,621 £91.621 £91,621
Pref. capital . . .. 75,685 77,685 77,685
Liabilities . . .. 58,304 33,262 41,749
Freeholds, etc 68,045 70,889 70,787
Plant and fittings . . 67,241 65,664 65,349
Shares in other cos. . . 5,000 16 16
Stocks .. .. . . 92,709 78,645 98,203
Debtors 8,718 4,931- 2,862
Cash, etc. . . . . 659 521 2,026
The co. trades on a cash or short-term
credit basis, as the small amount of
debtors’ balances (down £2069) shows.
To be in a position to give prompt de-
livery it has to carry substantial stocks.
To meet last year’s addition (£19,558)
to this item, the co. went outside for an
extra £8487. Still, the more or less liquid
surplus (£61,342) was £10,507 stronger
than at the previous balance. The year’s
allowance for depreciation (not disclosed)
exceeded the cost of additions to prem-
ises and plant by £417.
Pref. shareholders, whose scrip ranks
in the order stated above for capital and
divs., are represented on the board, and
a special reserve equal to three times
their combined annual div. requirements
has been created in accordance with the
articles. The market prices the firsts at
28s. and the seconds at 20s. 3d., at which
figures the return is 5.7 p.c. and 5.9 p.c.
respectively. The ords. at 295. return
{“Wild Cat” continued on next page.)


¥ M
V
MS
mm i .'
i^ 4
f
s^&iilis^.
t|HM|
<^*SSSBBSBSgS
m
If
::
A SCHWEPPic
VICTORY IN
“MIXED” DOUBLES
I, f. e f '" al of the men's
nen ? Ub r' ° da Was mosl P r omi-
fuii th a , T aflcr time won the
11-throated approval of the crowd.
He made great use of a fast service
(perfect fibers'), was sparkling at
Hose quarters and, keeping very
coo , effected some wonderful
recoveries from most awkward
situations. Later i„ the evening
, °J a Was e, Wd in a stiff round
of Mixed doubles and, despite one
.“ m,lsh ' he spurted well at the
crucial moment and got his partner
safdy home at 12-10.
sdf
ochweppes
by appointment
If you have ores for sale write: —
NORMAN HILL & CO., LTD.,
Catlicart House, Sydney.
Buyers: Gold ores and concentrates, Silver Lead
ores, Molybdenite, Scheelite, Wolfram, Tin ores,
etc., etc.
Public Notice.
CORESTRY BONDS.—Those wishing to sell
r N.Z. Perpetual Forests Ltd. Investments
will get highest prices by communication with
G.P.O. BOX 1765 (Melbourne).
6.8 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis. The net
tangible cover is £6 14s. Id, firsts, £3
3s. 2d. seconds and 235. 7d. ords.
Copper
According to the U.S.A. Copper In-
stitute, stocks of the red metal at the
end of 1936 and at the end of January
last compare as follows:
Dec., Jan.,
193 C. • 1937.
U.S.A. .. .. 1(51,070 tons 142,370 tons
Rest of world . . 192,230 tons 193,680 tons
Total .. - . 353,300 tons 336,050 tons
Now consider these figures. Apparent
world production:
Dec., Jan.,
1936. 1937.
U.S.A. .. .. 69,650 tons 75,160 tons
Rest of world .. 101,460 tons 107,390 tons
Total .. . . 171,110 tons 182,550 tons
Apparent world consumption:
Dec., Jan.,
1936. 1937.
U.S.A. . . . . 82,400 tons 80,810 tons
Rest of world .. 79,300 tons 101,410 tons
Total .. . . 161,700 tons 182,220 tons
During January there was not a great
deal of difference between apparent pro-
duction in the U.S.A. and the rest of
the world. There was, however, a
marked difference in apparent consump-
tion, a contraction of 1590 tons in the
U.S.A. being accompanied by an expan-
sion of 22,520 tons for the rest of the
world. There is a suggestion there that
speculative buying outside the U.S.A.
has been superimposed upon a heavy
industrial demand. How much of this
speculative buying has been on account
of market operators, who simply pur-
chase the metal to sell it again at a profit,
and how much on account of fabricators,
who, fearing that there may be shortage
of supplies in the near future, desire to
stock up, is not ascertainable from the
published statistics. All that can besaid for
certain is that the London price has con-
tinued to pursue an upward trend. Stand-
ard copper averaged £3B 19s. 7d. for
1936, which closed with the figure at
£45 19s. 9d. for December; it climbed
to £5l 10s. lOd. for January, and to £59
ss. 6d. for February. On March 25 it
was £73 Bs. 9d., and electrolytic had
reached £79.
In some quarters it is contended that
the speculative position of copper is not
so good as it was. With things as they
are, many low-grade, high-cost pro-
ducers, especially in the U.S.A., are
tempted to come into production, while
existing big producers in the U.S.A.,
Rhodesia and Chile may be induced to
increase the volume of their output.
Ample ore reserves are available, but
most of the large mines are now operat-
ing at or near capacity, and extensions
and additions to their equipment will
take time.
Of the 17,300 tons of copper pro-
duced in Australia in 1936, Mt. Lyell
contributed about 75 p.c. Moreover,
practically the whole of Lyell’s output
is consumed locally, and demand con-
tinues to grow. To increase its output
of cathode copper from 13,000 tons to
14,000 tons per annum, the co. is in-
stalling eight new depositing tanks in the
refinery, and making additions to other
equipment. For the year to September
30 last, Lyell’s all-in cost of producing
and selling a ton of copper was £42 14s.
10d., compared with £43 Is. lOd. and
£53 for the two preceding terms. Mining
costs alone were approximately £3 lower
at £23 4s. Bd. per ton of copper, thanks
to savings following introduction of
opencutting and to efficient handling and
treatment methods. Incidentally, the all-
in cost of producing a ton of copper at
Roan Antelope (Rhodesia) was approxi-
mately £24 15s. for the year to June 30
last.
The Commonwealth Oil Advisory
Committee urges continued drilling for
oil on the Gippsland (Vic.) field, which
has been examined again by Dr. Woot-
nough, Commonwealth geological ad-
viser, Dr. Ward, Government Geologist,
S. Aus., and Dr. Wade, a well-known oil
geologist, who recently did a lot of work
in Westralia for the Freney Co. It is
claimed that test bores are too close to-
gether on the Lakes Entrance field, which
is still in the prospecting stage, the ten-
dency being to gamble on a first well
and to abandon work when early efforts
were unsuccessful. Amalgamation of
existing interests, the raising of fresh
capital (amount not suggested), and the
granting of a Commonwealth subsidy are
recommended. Oil thus far obtained at
Gippsland has an asphaltic base, lacking
in the light oils (benzine and kerosene)
which occur in natural petroleums. Be-
tween Lakes Entrance and the Sale-
Longford area, about 50 miles to the
south-west, where the Vic. Government
is conducting a scout-boring campaign,
a change takes place from marine to
fresh-water deposits. The experts argue
that somewhere in between there must
be a zone of division, namely, a buried
shore line, and that some of the world’s
greatest accumulations of oil have been
found where such conditions exist. This
middle area, which has not yet been
tested, is the peg on which new hopes
are hung.
* * * *
At the end of 1937 Raub, the
Pahang (F.M.S.) producer, hopes to have
a 300-ton-a-day mill, to cost £40,000, at
work re-treating its current and old tail-
ings, of which 270,000 tons has been
bored to average 2dwt. and 30,000 4dwt.
per ton. In addition, there is 2100 tons
of concentrates in store going 9.6 ’weights
and an unstated amount of untested
material. With a proposed plant an 80 p.c.
recovery is reckoned on. Compared with
the year to March, 1936, when 53,386
tons of ore was put through the mill for
an average recovery of 8.07dwt., mine
values have fallen, but increased output
enabled a lift in the last quarterly div.
from 4d. to 6d. Up till November 7 last
43,258 tons had been treated for an aver-
age recovery of 7.87dwt.; four-weekly
crushings since have been as follows:
5/12/’36. 2/l/’37. 30/l/’37. 27/2/’37.
Tonnage .. 4548 4769 * 4879 4885
Bullion, oz. 1997 2055 2000 2000
Gold, oz. .. 1877 1922 1851 1877
Dwt. per ton 8.2 8.1 7.6 7.7
Just what, if anything, the year’s pros-
pecting, which had cost over £15,400 at
the end of January, has added to prob-
able ore in sight hasn’t been disclosed.
Last estimate of reserves was 45,000 tons
—36,400 tons sulphides, the remainder
oxides.
* * * *
Satisfactory results having attended
preliminary testing of its plant—a 12in.
electrically-driven gravel pump capable,
working three shifts, of handling up to
30,000 c.y. monthly—Avoca Develop-
ments, formed May, 1935, intends com-
mencing immediate production on its
Malakoff property, near Landsborough
(Vic.). Values are found at a depth of
between 17ft. and 25ft. on a pipeclay
bottom. S. Hunter, the co.’s engineer,
reckons available yardage at 2,000,000,
worth 2s. per c.y., or £201,500 gross.
After repaying a Government loan of
£3OOO, and with costs at Is. 2d. a yard,
probable profit is put at £82,000, or
£13,500 annually over an estimated work-
ing life of six years.
* * * *
Boulder Perseverance (W.A.) proposes
to spend about £lOO,OOO on developing
and equipping the Enterprise leases, Kal-
goorlie, recently acquired from B.H.
Prop. The proposal is to mine 5000
tons of ore monthly, and plant is to be
extended. Working costs are put at not
more than 365. a ton, and revenue (on
present basis of extraction and with gold
at £8 15s. on ounce) at 565., leaving a
working profit of 20s. a ton. The lease
covers 124 acres, and contains 180,000
tons of proved ore, averaging 7.4dwt.
Possible and proved ore to the 1600 ft.
level is estimated at 450,000 tons.
* % * *
Wiluna (W.A.) is well satisfied with
results from its new smelting plant, and
proposes to duplicate it to enable the
entire output from its own and the neigh-
boring Moonlight mine to be dealt with.
During Feb.—a short month —Wiluna’s
gold yield was worth £A78,161. Work-
ing costs were £50,921, leaving a surplus
of £27,240. Capital expenditure on plant
construction amounted to £10,655. The
main shaft has been deepened to 1858 ft.
Recent development work and diamond
drilling indicate that while the ore-body
continues strong in depth values have
failed to strengthen.
♦ Sfc
London-controlled Edjudina Consoli-
dated (W.A.) reports board and man-
agerial changes as a result of differences
of opinion concerning the co.’s policy.
Capt. Broadbridge (chairman) and E.
McDermott and H. Ross have pulled out,
and B. Schonegevel and A. Hedley Wil-
liams have stepped in— Schonegevel
is the new chairman. J. H. Eddy, for-
merly underground manager of Gt.
Boulder and lately with the De Ber-
nales group, replaces British American
Mines, Ltd., as general manager. The
Consolidated’s properties, which cover
1564 acres in the Yerilla district, are
claimed to hold a line of lode eight miles
in length. Development is in progress
and a treatment plant is talked of.
*
North Boulder (W.A.) hasn’t turned
out as well at depth as was hoped. Dis-
appointment followed reopening of the
old deep levels at considerable expense.
Attention is now being directed to the
shallower workings, where there is
thought to be a chance of locating con-
tinuation of a rich shoot from which a lot
of gold was extracted years ago. Small
parcels of ore are being mined and
treated at a local mill, in an effort to
do without calls. The best in the cup-
board was probably taken out by an
Anglo-Australian co. in the ’nineties.
*
Laverton, one of the many Westralian
mining centres raised from the dead by
the enhanced price of gold and the advent
of London money, now seems to be full
of life. Several shows are “on gold,” and
local business people meet and leave one
with a smile. At and around Cox’s Find,
operated by Western Mining Corp., fair-
sized shoots are being worked, while
prospects at Augusta and King of Crea-
tion, both worked by the De Bernales
group, are declared to be bright. Owners
of a few other shows seem to have ample
spending silver.
% * * *
The directors of Rothsay (W.A.) are
being bluntly told by some of the share-
holders to furnish more regular and in-
formative reports, especially as regards
probable date of completion of the new
treatment plant. The old plant was shut
down some time ago, owing to inability
to deal with the desired tonnage and
obtain a satisfactory gold extraction.
Serious development work ceased simul-
taneously. Five months ago the co. had
£14,000 cash in hand, most of which has
gone into the new plant.
* * * *
Princess Royal has taken another
Westralian goldmining option, this time
over the old Royal Standard, at Yuin,
on the Yalgoo field. Years ago a local
co. struggled hard to make money out
of the Standard but failed. At that time
gold was worth less than half its present
figure.
* * * *
Swan Bitter (W.A.) continues to pro-
duce a little gold from shallow ground.
Last month’s return (tonnage treated not
published) is officially estimated to be
worth £950, of which exes, made off
with £BB5. Since development fails to
keep pace with mill requirements, crush-
ing is suspended now and then.
* * * *
Marvel Loch (W.A.) has acquired a
free sampling option over ground ad-
joining its own in the hope of finding
something that will add materially to
its present seemingly slender store of
wealth.
-!' 'A' '6
The 40-hour week, which begins in
May, isn’t expected to increase costs of
Westralian goldmining cos. very much.
Realising that a reduction in working
hours underground was likely, most cos.
trimmed their lamps and were ready.
Others who didn’t are now devising
means for making the best of the deci-
sion. Of the big mines, Sons of Gwalia
and Lancefield are likely to feel the
effects most.
INVENTORS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents. —Advt.
H: * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 483
Collins Street. Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collisoh and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
* * * *
AUSTRALASIAN timberlands and plantation
valuation surveys, milling plans, certification of
shipments. L MACINTOSH ELLIS, B.Sc. (late
Director State Forest Service, New Zealand), Consult-
ing Forest Engineer, 8 Bond Street, Sydney. — Advt.
* * * *
RARE MINERALS AND METALS—Ask 0. T.
LEMPRIERE & CO. PTY., LTD., Collins House,
Melbourne, and Sirius House, Sydney, for advice
regarding value and marketing of rare minerals anu
metals. — Advt.
* * * *
“CLIMAX” Air Tools are quicker and better.
William Adams and Company, Limited, 175 , ~r c. ?,, ; e
Street, Sydney, agents for “CLIMAX” Rock Un l»
Riveting Hammers, Chipping and Caulking Hammer.,
etc. Write to us for particulars.— Advt.


SMOKE-OH!
“She detested the man because he had thrown
stones at her cats.”— “Sun.”
He evidently hurt her felines!
*F *F *F *F
“All war music should be suppressed.”
—Pacifist writer.
How about making a start with “The
Wedding March”?
-I* *l* *F *i«
The modern idea of burning midnight
oil is coming home from a party in a
straight-eight after twelve o’clock.
*F *F *l* -I-
-‘ln Australia we have a proud spirit of
independence.”— “S.M.H.”
Of which we have had many striking
examples.
'l* *l* -F
True Prophecy.
“He’ll simply walk home !” ’Twas such
talk
Made me back Sloth. My pals were
right;
Sloth tailed the whole field at a walk,
And I myself walked home that night.
H. M.
*l* *F ►!* *F
"A claim of the petitioner was that his wife
had desserted him.” — “D.T.”
Then she didn’t leave him in the soup!
“I* 'l* *F »F
Feminised Sport.
Of course I hope that our girl
cricketers do well in England, but I still
think that croquet offers more scope for
determined womanhood. Ladies didn’t
play cricket in my time, but a virile
female could play hell on a croquet
lawn.
Those we didn’t skittle with bodyline
smashes to the ankle got hung up in the
hoops by their elastic-side boots getting
out of the way. The time I got my
international bonnet there wasn’t a
shutter left on the village pub after the
casualties had been carted off.
In my croquet days we always found
it a good idea to fluster the umpire by
giving him something embarrassing to
hold. Mind you, I think some of the
masculine cricketing terms should be
altered when ladies are playing. Refer-
ences to square leg and short leg might
be misunderstood for personal reflec-
tions, and the bare statement that a girl
had been caught in slips might lead to
unwarranted criticism of her modesty.
I think the biggest thrill of the tour,
however, will be all the new adjectives
and things the newspapers will dig out.
“Dashing Amazon of the green sward”
was the best I ever got, but it cost the
reporter a horsewhipping at the hands
of the curate.
Aggie McWhoosh.
•£• •£»
“Special topics over the air for women lis-
teners.”—Radio advt.
Eh? Women listeners?
*F *l* »!» 4*
“Laughter Club Formed.”— News item.
An early suggestion is to buy a wire-
less set and listen-in to political broad-
casts.
•>
•F *F *F *F
In an hour she had knocked down seven
fas” ’.. Pr ° testcd that she was not driving
Onlay seven males per hour.
•F *F *F *F
Nowadays women believe in having
plenty of graces but few heirs.
Overwritten.
“She writes in the throes of inspiration.”
—Literary critic.
Reading one of her books, I noticed
it. Her hero threw himself on his knees,
but the lady threw back her head and
laughed ; she was through with him. The
maid threw the door open and he went
through, to throw himself into a taxi.
That was all on one page.
During the course of the story the
hero throws hot, passionate looks and
a rope to a drowning lady; goes through
a fortune, half a dozen doors, two win-
dows and a cleft in a chasm. The
heroine throws over three men and her
thoughts back to happier days ; and she
restlessly throws herself into chairs and
cushions about. After being seized by
the thro-at by a nasty male character,
she throws herself on the hero’s mercy
and her arms around his neck.
Yes, she writes in the throes, all right.
H. M.
»!* »!• *l* 4*
“Orchardist, 40, like to meet sensible woman,
view mat. No flappers need apply. Looks
secondary consideration.” — Advt.
Twenty to one he grows lemons!
•b •!>
“Carried away with enthusiasm about his
brilliant pass at the University, she kissed him.”
—i VOman’s paper.
Generous to a degree!
“You kep' on tellin' me t' step on it. S'pose you're satisfied now!”
Form Guide for Ladies’ Day.
Pigsfeet. —An excellent chance, as his
colors are a beautiful blue-green with
spots of a charming elephant’s breath.
His jockey wears a simply delightful
cap—the very latest and most thrilling
shade of fawn.
Danny. —By a strange coincidence the
race is run just 14 days after St. Patrick's
Day, making this one a very strong tip.
In addition, the trainer’s niece, recently
married a man named O’Brien.
Annie’s Horror is the logical favorite,
her star being in the ascendant only three
and a half weeks after the event, and
three is her number in the racebook.
Also, she will be seven next birthday—
just twice three and a half; and she is
to carry eight stone one ; eight minus
one being seven. This form is un-
deniable.
Flatout’s jockey bears a most striking
resemblance to Ronald Colman, and this
alone should recommend him to tote-
backers.
Crosby’s father was named Crooner,
a coincidence, that is surely not without
significance, and his rider always wears
beautifully-cut breeches.
The Sluggard cannot be recommended.
His name is so positively uninteresting,
and he is to be ridden by a jockey named
Smith, wearing colors that are decidedly
unfashionable this season.
S. Esq.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“There is something gay about these cami-
soles.” —Shop advt.
Ready to go on the bust, in fact.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Some nations are prepared to do shady
things for a place in the sun.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Devil of a Problem.
I wonder if anyone can tell me how
to get in touch with the devil.
The other night I dreamed I died, and,
not unaturally, considering all things. I
descended to the nether regions. Arriv-
ing there, I began issuing orders for
the rearrangement of the furnaces and
fuel supplies, endeavoring to run the in-
stitution on up-to-date, economic lines.
The devil approached me and remarked
that anyone would think I owned the
place.
“Why not?” I replied. “My wife gave
it to me on earth.”
Then, forcibly awakened, I quickly
realised that I had not as yet received a
half of it.
I now want to get into communication
with His Nibs to apologise.
Hori.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Solved.
Having just received a bill from his
tailor dated July, 1930, and marked
“Please remit by return, fifty-first notice,”
Bill Stony replied:
“Dear Sir, —I do not remember order-
ing such a suit as you mention. If I
did order it, you certainly never made
it for me. If you did make it, I never
got it. Furthermore, if I got it, I must
have paid for it. And if I didn’t, I
can’t.”
Orsova.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Young men as well as schoolchildren slide
along the offside running-boards of the trams,
dodging the conductors on duty.”
—“S. M. Herald.”
They should be made to pay on a
sliding scale.
4* • 4* 4* 4*
Metamorphosis.
“Change to Sheep. Advice to Bank Settlers.”
• —News heading.
In this, as in any other metamorphosis,
there are two main features to be borne
in mind —the simplicity with which the
change is effected and the almost total
inability of the subject to detect or
appreciate the change.
A friend of mine—a bank settler-
assured me that it required three bad
seasons and a bank inspector to con-
vince him that he was a goat, although
the fact had been obvious to his family
for some time previously.
Before venturing too far, therefore,
the bank settler should complete a
thorough self-analysis. If he is a sheep,
well and good ; if he is not, he should
lose no time in changing.
One important test is through the
taxation department. If you are a sheep,
they will have fleeced you. If you are
not a sheep they will have fleeced you
just the same. If they have not fleeced
you, you have nothing to gain by be-
coming a sheep.
Having effected the change, the second
task is to convince the Government, and
is incomparably more difficult. In fact,
after repeated failures, you will prob-
ably succeed only in convincing yourself
that the Government is an ass. In this
case, rest content. You will have suc-
ceeded where the sages and philosophers
of all history have failed. You will have
discovered Truth.
W. J. W.
* * * *
Silly-seasoning.
“What would you do with a million
pounds?” asked a Sydney newspaper.
Well, here’s what I wouldn’t do:
I wouldn’t buy a farm. I don’t want
a farm. If I had one I would move off
it and give some other poor devil a
chance to starve.
I wouldn’t buy a racehorse. I have
bought too many already.
I wouldn’t endow a church, university
or Dorcas Society. Why should I?
I wouldn’t found a new religion. Too
many have already been found.
I wouldn’t give expensive jewellery to
my favorite actress. I haven’t a favorite
actress, and if I had I wouldn’t do it.
My wife wouldn’t approve of it, if I had
a wife, which I haven’t.
I wouldn’t equip a yacht, and go on
a world tour. I don’t like the water —
without the whisky.
T. A. C.
•b 4*
Hints for Husbands.
[This informative and helpful series, written
by an expert, is especially designed to assist
husbands whom abnormal circumstances may
force to perform various domestic tasks, or
who are simply ordered to do them.]
II. — Starching and Pegging Out.
When I said that the clothes, after
wringing, are ready for the line I re-
ferred, of course, only to those articles
which don’t need starching. You must
use your own judgment as to which do.
There can be no mistake about the
fur coat, and silk stockings, bootrags,
scanties and doormats obviously don’t
need starching—or, at any rate, not
much. Underpants and tails of shirts,
if starched too heavily, will make a
crackling sound when you walk, and for
your own comfort this should be
avoided —use a lighter mixture for these.
The same applies to corsets ; too thick
a mixture will gum up all the eyelets,
necessitating the tedious job after they
have dried and set of boring them out
with a gimlet—and you know who’ll
have to do that. The laces, of course,
need not be starched. Sheets should be
starched only in the summer—if done in
the winter they allow too much cold air
to circulate. Regarding the rest, just
take a pick here and there, starching
those articles you consider would look
best without a bend in them.
Making the starch is simplicity itself.
Just put a packet of starch into a sauce-
pan, half cover with water and bake in
a slow, steady oven No, I’m getting
it mixed up with my cooking notes.
Boil briskly, taking care to see that it
doesn’t catch on the bottom. Keep stir-
ring, and be careful that no cigar ash
falls into it. Properly prepared starch
should have a smell like plateglass that
has been cracked.
Clothes should not be hand-dipped into
the mixture, otherwise the fingers will
have to be prised apart after each im-
mersion. Use a skewer, care being exer-
cised that the stockings do not ladder.
When they are all finished put them out
on the line. No need to peg them on —
they’ll stick all right.
Now hang the rest of the clothes out.
If it happens to be a windy day, so much
the better. They’ll dry quicker, or those
parts will that aren’t twisted a dozen
times around the line. If the line is one
that is worked on two arms, pull one
arm down to its. fullest extent. Don’t
bother to wipe the line with a rag—
the rusty marks will come in handy to
denote where the various articles should
be folded.
Nothing tends to a frayed temper more
than to be enveloped by a large sheet
blowing about when you are trying to
peg it out. The best way is to get on
the windward side of the line and throw
it up, gauging wind and distance so that
it will fall in the desired position. Should
you misjudge and the sheet fall on the
lawn you’ve just top-dressed, remember
that you have the option of either (a)
taking it inside and rewashing it, or (b)
leaving it till it dries and brushing the
mud off. The latter method is favored
by most washermen.
When the rope that you are hauling
the laden line up with (the frayed one
you said you’d replace last November)
breaks and all the clothes lob on to the
top-dressing, don’t be dismayed. Mend
the rope, haul up again, secure, and then
turn the hose on to them. If you have
a good pressure through the pipes most
of the mud will come off. At most
there 11 only be muddy patches here and
there half-way up the sheets, etc. But
there is no need to be alarmed—they will
come out quite easily in next week’s
wash.
S. W. K.
Precaution.
When I consider Mae and Flo,
The one to choose 1 hardly know.
Flo, being rather wild and gay,
Is lively company, while Mae,
A damsel of the peaceful kind,
Is far more gentle and refined.
Flo isn’t ladylike, but she
Has lots of personality.
Still, Mae is of the queenly sort
Who raise my thoughts aloft ... In
short,
Mae is the type I’d marry, so
I think I’ll concentrate on Flo.
T. W. N.
Retired.
My father was a mining chap ;
The humdrum year around,
With candle stuck on peak of cap,
He labored underground.
His pick he drove through stone and
clay,
In tunnels, shafts and bores;
But now that he is old and grey
He’s resting on his ores!
PERCY.


As an investor . . .
are you up to date?
TC ®i£SM«ITv:
MEN and women throughout N.S.W. and every other
State have been quick to use the facilities offered to
small investors by FIRST AUSTRALIAN UNIT TRUST
CERTIFICATES. TWENTY first-class Australian Securi-
ties, each one having sound financial resources and each
being a leader in its class, are grouped together to form an
investment of impregnable strength. Participation in such
a scientific spread was formerly limited to wealthy
folk. To-day it is available to “capitalists” of £25 and
upwards looking for: I—High Margin of Capital Safety;
2 —Liberal Income Yield; 3—Potential Capital Appreciation.
Your securities are held in trust by the Custodian Trustees—
Union Insurance Society of Canton, Ltd. (Union Building.
Bond Street, Sydney)—who also collect and pay to you
without any deduction whatsoever the Income derived from
your investment. Certificates are realisable at any time.
If you don’t' wish to be behind the times, learn all
about this solid form of investment. For investors
big and small it combines the highest degree of
simplicity and safety with liberal income yield.
Send for Descriptive Booklet No. 1 to the Managers of the Trust—
AUSTRALIAN FIXED TRUSTS PTY., LTD.
DIRECTORS:
Victor G. Watson, Esq. (Chairman), formerly Manager, The Trustees,
Executors and Agency Co.. Ltd.. Melbourne; Norman L. Cowper, Esq..
Solicitor, Messrs. Allen, Allen and Hemsley, Sydney; John A.. L.. Gunn,
Esq., F.C.A. (Aust.), Chartered Accountant (Aust.); Palmer Kent. Esq.,
Retired Chief Inspector, The Bank of Australasia.
3-14 Bond Street, Sydney.
Telephone: 85204. Box 4028 V.Y., G.P.O.
Business.Rollery,Etc.
Share Prices and Commodities
The trend of most share prices before
the ’Changes closed for Easter was
slightly downward —the first general
movement in that direction since the
markets opened buoyantly after Christ-
mas. In nearly all cases support was
only a shade less evident; it was the
widespread nature of the trend among
industrial shares that was most notice-
able. On the last day of ’Change opera-
tions buyers came in to take advantage
of keener prices.
Bank scrip generally was firm, as were
David Jones ords., Yarra Falls, Cumber-
land Paper, Kandos Cement, Mauri
Bros, and Gordon and Gotch ords. Most
market leaders were weaker, including
British Tobacco, Australian Glass, B. H.
Prop., G. J. Coles and Electrolytic Zinc
(the latter being susceptible to base-
metal prices).
The following tabulation shows move-
ments in 22 principal stocks since a week
before Christmas. Prices at the closing
of the ’Changes for Easter are also com-
pared with quotes of a week ago:
Dec. 16, Meh. 16, Mch. 25,
1936. 1937. 1937.
Bank of N.S.W. £35/15/- £37/17/6 £3B/-/-
National Bank .. £7/10/-. £B/-/- £B/-/-
G’borough, Mort 36/ — 39/6 38/-
Winchcombe .. 36/- 36/6 37/
Adelaide Steam.. 31/6 32/6 33/-
Q’land Insurance 61/- 60/9 60/6
A. Gas “A” .. £7/8/6 £7/3/- £7/3/6
Carlton Brewery 63/6 64/- 64/9
C.-Perkins .. 24/6 26/- 25/3
Tooth .. .. 56/- 57/- 56/6
Ass. News .. 24/6 24/3 23/6
Aus. Glass .. 90/9 93/6 91/6
Aus. Paper . . 36/- 39/- 36/3
Aus. Cement .. 29/- 31/6 30/9
B. Prop. .. 83/- 91/3 89/-
Burns Philp . . 75/ 80/- 78/6
Electro. Zinc . . 49/6 66/6 64/6
Fairymead .. 39/- 39/3 38/6
G. J. Coles .. £4/10/6 £5/6/- £5/5/6
Mauri Bros. . . 72/- 75/- 75/- •
W. H. Soul .. 86/6 84/6 83/6
Yarra Falls .. 40/6 43/- 43/3
Stocks which previously had the greatest
speculative rise have shared most in the
relaxation; and this holds true even
when base-metal shares, such as Barrier
mines and Mt. Lyell, are left out.
The situation at present is peculiar.
The dangers of a boom are beginning to
be recognised by bankers, if not by poli-
ticians. Prosperity or otherwise is
largely a matter of costs and prices.
If costs in Australia are encouraged
to rise with the lift in world
prices, much of this country’s chances
of further industrial progress may be
jeopardised. Some will perhaps regard
the opinion as heresy, but it is here sug-
gested that Australians in the long run
would have been better off if this last
boisterous kick upwards in metal and
commodity prices had never occurred.
Prior to it most industries were doing
quite well, and at Dec. 31 last Common-
wealth trade-union unemployment had
been reduced to around 10 p.c.
Since the beginning of 1937 base
metals have rocketed (and slumped
somewhat), and most other commodities
have lifted, though not in the same pro-
portion. If Barrier mines and a few
particular industries become outstand-
ingly prosperous, it is sure to arouse
envy in other directions. It will also
tend to lift prices all round. And if the.
speculative buying overseas suddenly
wanes we may be left with a new high
level of costs not justified by prices, re-
sulting in a hindrance to all industries.
It cannot be stressed too often that a
leading agent in our recovery was the
fact that internal costs and prices were
kept low almost up to the present, thus
allowing us to sell our products overseas
and on the home market profitably. And
so long as a greater amount of money
will buy the employee no more than it
did before—because of inflation in
figures—why encourage further boost-
ing? There is only one person who is
likely to benefit by an all-round lift in
figures, and that is the debtor, particu-
larly the mortgagor. Even he can ex-
pect no lasting relief unless higher prices
are sustained.
Returning to the situation as it par-
ticularly affects investments, the present
represents a period of substantial pros-
perity to holders of ord. shares in a few
outstanding cos., and most holders are
getting at least a moderately good in-
come-assuming, in all cases, that the
scrip was bought at par. Some, people
who have bought during the past six
months are getting a very low income
because of the high speculative price
paid for shares. If our increased
national income is to be mostly offset
by greater costs, a pronounced change
may take place in the, outlook for ordi-
nary shareholders, because, though aggre-
gate trading figures may increase,
margins of profit, especially when in-
creased living costs are taken into ac-
count, may show no particular benefit to
shareholders.
If the general level of prices rises in
Australia, interest rates may be expected
to follow. And if that happens the in-
vestor will ask for a higher return on
his money—a return that may not be
available on present share quotations.
Shares in cos. that don’t come to light
with commensurately higher divs. will
probably weaken on ’Change. That is
why all shares should be bought at
present only after taking a long look into
the future.
At Mandated Alluvials’ meeting in
Sydney last week E. W. Bonwick, the
co.’s consulting engineer, was asked a
lot of questions, the most pertinent by
mining-engineer Murdoch. Bonwick put
mining and treatment costs at £3 a ton;
cheap labor, he said, was often the dearest,
and he classed the Papuan among the
poorest type of miners he had seen. He
also stressed the difficulties of mining in
the tropics, .where heavy rainfall was often
a difficulty. Mr. Bonwick referred to
the formation on the Sapphire leases as
“unique,” because of the disappearance
of most of the values in the ore-body
when picked up as a sulphide zone on
the lower side,of a fault. Mr. Murdoch
referred to the estimate of costs as
“unique” owing to its highness, with
which observation Mr. Bonwick agreed.
He estimated that with a new £6OOO
plant 80 p.c. extraction could be got,
with a £14,000 outfit, upwards of 90 p.c.
—throughput 50 tons a day in both cases.
An independent engineer is to be sent up
to have another look at the property.
* * * *
Mount Isa (Q.) shares sold at 265. in
Brisbane last week ; London quotes have
been around 225. sterling. The co.’s ore
mostly averages 5.40 z. silver, 8.2 p.c.
lead and 9.4 p.c. zinc. On the milling of
616,259 tons in 1935-36 a loss of £5542
was shown, and no provision for depre-
ciation or amortisation was taken into
the accounts. A profit over £1,000,000
(Aust.) a year should be possible if lead,
zinc, silver and costs keep at last week’s
levels. Out of that profit neglected de-
preciation and amortisation charges
would need to be provided. Paid capital
stands at £1,944,202, debentures at
£2,920,000, and sundry creditors at
£984,639, so that in most favorable cir-
cumstances during the next few years
divs., if any, can be expected to amount
to only a proportion of the profit.
He * * ❖
Metals continued to fall in London
last week, the only exceptions being tin
and spelter, which showed a slight firm-
ing. Lead and spelter were both at £3O
12s. 6d. sterling, about the figure on
which some estimates of probable Barrier
earnings were made in B. 24/3/’37. The
last day of ’Change dealings brought
forth rises in all Australian base-metal
stocks, most noticeable lifts being in Mt.
Lyell and Electro. Zinc, but North and
South, both ex div., also participated.
4: * * *
Activity in Australian Cement shares
quietened in Melbourne last week, sales
being recorded at 315., showing a drop
of Is. 6d. on the highest recent quote.
But at 245. 9d.for the 16s. fully-paids, the
market for Kandos (the N.S.W. hold-
ing co.)' scrip was still undervalued 3s.
in comparison with the Vic. co. Ap-
parently the investors value both cos.'
scrip on the basis of immediate yield
(6.4 p.c. in each case now) ; but Kan-
dos’s 114 p.c. greater holding in the
operating co. (per £1 of capital) must
eventually result in an advantage to
Kandos shareholders, even though
present divs. in both instances are 10 p.c.
p.a. It will pay investors to forget that
Aust. Cement, shares, used to command a
premium over Kandos before the merger.
The position now should be the other
way round, making due allowance for
the different denominations of the shares.
* * * *
Broken Hill Prop, scrip came back to
89s. last week; yield on 1935-36 div.
basis (124 p.c.) is 2.8 p.c. It is a low
present income. If the div. rose, to 15
p.c. return would be about 3.4’p.c., and
4 p.c. if 17+ p.c. went out. Those div.
rates, and more, have been earned in
recent years, but distributions have been
conservative. The current term’s steel-
works output will be about 15 p.c. up
on that for 1935-36, and net profit
should exceed 19 p.c. on issued capital,
paid up and otherwise. Profits (if any)
from the Barrier mine would be addi-
tional. Production of lead and zinc
there at present is on about a fifth of
the scale,of the South. B.H. Prop., in
view of the large proportion of its capi-
tal invested in new ventures not yet
returning anything, at its present price is
essentially a long-term investment.
* * * *
Support for the two large-issue cash-
order cos. waned last week. Producers’
and General ords. slipped below par at
one stage, then recovered slightly. Yield
was 15 p.c. on the basis of last annual
div. A number of these shares were sold
to present holders by Hamiltons (Aust.),
at prices, around 40s. Whether any great
recovery will be made on the market
toward that figure will depend largely
on the strength and form of finances as
disclosed by the first balance-sheet as a
public co., to be issued later this year.
The co. appears to be doing a substantial
business. Cash Orders (Amalg.) brds.
are lifeless on the market at 21s. 6d.,
showing a return of 8.4 p.c. P. and G.
has an issued capital of £671,902 ; Amal-
gamated £526,176. It is probable that it
the boards of both cos. had greater re-
gard for reserves and less for big divs.
the sharemarkets would be more favor-
ably impressed.
s}j sjc *
Now that amalgamation of the four
holding cos. in the Greater Union
Theatres group is being put up to share-
holders, it becomes interesting to in-
vestors to know how these cos. stand in
relation to each other. For each 100
shares in their paid-up share-capitals, the
individual cos.’ holdings in G.U.T. com-
pare as follows:
Shares in Present
G.U.T. Share Prices.
West’s 39 10s. 9d.
Spencer’s .. .. 36 6s. Id.
Greater J. D. Williams .. 33 7s. 6d.
Amalgamated ... .. 32 Bs. sd.
Amalgamated Pictures’ share register in-
cludes £12,000 of pref. money, and in
the above comparison the holding in
G.U.T. is spread evenly over pref. and
ord. shares.
West’s scrip always commands a pre-
mium over the other cos.’, not only by
reason of its larger per-share holding in
G.U.T., but because there is 2s. Id. per
share in Consols, etc., and 2s. Bd. in
freeholds. Spencer’s has little or no
assets outside the combine, and it has
a small p. and 1. debit and a trifle of
debt. Greater J. D. Williams has £38,777
of liabilities (about Is. lid. a share),
and Is. Bd. a share (book value) in the
Melba Theatre, Bourke-street, Mel-
bourne—-a valuable site, carrying a
mortgage greater than its book value,
but at present leased at low rental.
Actual value of this property as a shop
site might be double, or treble the book
figure. Amalgamated has 2s. 2d. per
pref. and ord. share in Consols, etc., and
3s. 7d. a share in theatre freeholds and
investments. Liabilities amount to about
sd. a share.
• If a holding-co. merger eventuates,
shareholders in West’s and Amalgamated
may receive a special distribution of the
liquid assets held, in view of the diffi-
culty of merging them equitably with
assets of such indefinite value as
theatres and freeholds outside G.U.T.,
and the shares in G.U.T? itself.
$ $ * *
Now that an all-round relaxation in
ord. share prices is apparent on the
Stock Exchanges, it may be worth while
keeping an eye skinned for opportunities
of favorable buying. W. R. Carpenter
at 455. is lower than it has been for
'some time, and, though at this figure the
immediate yield is only a trifle over 3.5
p.c., there is no doubt that the earning
power of the concern, present and future,
justifies hopes of better things later on.
Copra has shown firmness again lately.
♦•* ♦ *
Australasian Paper ords. dropped back
sharply to 365. a few days ago,, after
sales at 395. For some time this scrip
has been considerably overvalued in re-
lation to Cumberland issues, more par-
ticularly that co.’s participating prefs.
Details of how shareholders of all varie-
ties in both cos. would participate in
divs. higher and lower than those now
being paid by the operating co. were
published in B. 3/ 3 / ’37 ; investors would
be wise to study them, because they give
a clear and accurate idea of the values of
all classes of scrip. The fact that Cum-
berland prefs. now carry a preferential
6.2 p.c. instead of 8 p.c. has given the
ords. a better chance ; on the other hand,
the prefs. are entitled to full participa-
tion with the ords. after all classes have
received 6.2 p.c., and share in new issues
as well.
*l* •J 5 H*
A good 4+ p.c. ordinary stock is
Gordon and Gotch ; div. is 12 p.c., last
week’s price 525. 6d. Over a long period
8 p.c. has been the lowest div. Finances
are in good shape, and though the visible
net tangible backing for the ords. is only
265., there is something additional that
the eye doesn’t see. It is a periodical-
distributing, printer’s-supplies and adver-
tising agency business, with all the
etceteras that go with it.
* * * *
In Melbourne last week:
The speculative surge in Associated Pulp
shares slackened after 15s. 6d. had appeared
on the sales list in the previous week. On
Monday there was a turnover at 14s. lid. and
14s. lOd.
Rubber shares continued active, Jalan Kebun
being dealt in at 10s., and Victoria Malay
ords. at 255. In November the latter could be
picked up at 6s.
Holeproof ords. closed at 295. 9d., after
daily dealings.
Emperors were weaker at 19s. 5d., as were
Lancefields at 12s. Bd. Wellington
Alluvials were steady at 6s. 10d., while
North Kalgurlis were firmer at 19s. 6d.


sadf
sdf
sadf
BALI.. . Beautiful —Unbelievable
This Winter let us show you Bali on your way to Java and
Singapore.
Several sparkling itineraries have been arranged for May, June and
July through Bali, Java and Singapore offering a brilliant succession
of the strange and the picturesque.
Make this Winter the holiday of a lifetime spend it in the sun
with K.P.M.
Ask us for complete details and further interesting information . . .
where to go . . . what to see .... how little it costs.
*
#
itfV
CVS*
1
ft
#- v
INEXPENSIVE WINTER RATES
Special First Class Return Fares from Sydney and
Brisbane, £67/10/- to Java and £75 to Singapore,
free of exchange and including call at Bali for the
purpose of disembarking passengers making the trip
through the island. Slightly higher from Adelaide
and Melbourne.
ROYAXPACKETNAVIGAjiroNCauro
PAKETVAART HOUSE. !55 GEO REE ST. SYDNEY
DOING THE ROYAL SYDNEY SHOW
“S.W.K.,” Frith and Aubrey Snoop Around.
My usual practice, after having wedged
through the. turnstiPs. is to stand irreso-
lute for several minutes pondering on an
itinerary. This time it was resolved for
me, my youthful nephew Aubrey having
invited himself along. Aubrey is an
enormous appetite surrounded by 701 b.
of concentrated vitality which roars in a
bass soprano. As soon as he saw who
was to be his second playmate, Frith
registered the desperate look of a trapped
animal. But escape was impossible.
“Let’s get a eyeful o’ that fat sheilah,”
bellowed Aubrey. “Get us some fairy
floss gaw on unk don’t be lousy I
got a new streamlined scooter strike me
there’s a robbo bloke what about a
bottla lemonade unk”
The “fat sheilah” it was. This amiable
and excellently-spoken lady proved to be
a descendant —ascendant, more likely—
of South American headhunters. Over Bft.
high, 48 stone and topping the century
around the hips, she would make an ideal
typist for a tired businessman—from his
wife’s viewpoint; no human knees could
ever support that weight. Her tent mate,
an African pigmy, indulges in the un-
usual pastime of hoisting an empty barrel
by a hook through his tongue. Frith,
Hoisting an EMPTY barrel.
mopping his streaming brow, wondered
how anyone, even a pigmy, could raise
an interest in an empty barrel.
The “fat bloke” was the next order
from Aubrey, whose oral demand was
strained through a mouthful —that is,
about a pound—of fairy floss. This 15-
year-older tips the beam at a miserable
40 stone —chest 74in.; girth unknown,
though it would arouse the envy of
many a leading citizen. Despite his bulk,
some of his muscles are as hard as
goats’ knees. By invitation, Frith tested
his condition. He must have got his
hand caught in one of the rolls of fat
and tickled the exhibit, for his avoirdu-
pois began to agitate like a blancmange
in a tornado, and Frith’s hand was
almost dislocated.
By this time Aubrey was hogging to
get among the other exhibits. Signifi-
cantly, he chose the pig pens. We kept
beside a phlegmatic gent, who operated
a portable deodorising plant, and felt
reasonably safe. The monotony of look-
ing at outsize porkers panting like a pub-
lican walking upstairs was broken by an
exhibition of what Frith termed “nature
in the raw.” An Ayrshire oi\ Berkshire
or some sort of swine, which had evi-
dently brought its dozen offspring along
Was lying starboard side up.
to show them where they might be next
year if they weren’t partnering a brace
of fried eggs, was lying starboard side
up, while 12 ravenous piglets were con-
ducting an unseemly brawl over the. 10
bowsers available for their sustenance.
Poor management somewhere, I thought.
Anyway, I won two bob on bets as to
which two would miss out.
We stopped beside a brunette type of
pig that persisted in a noisy wheezing. A
sunburnt, bucolic-looking fellow with a
walrus mo. was gazing at it in fatuous
admiration. “Nice-looking Tamworth,”
said Frith, with an air of authority de-
rived, I suspected, from a hasty glance at
the prize card. “Me eye—it comes from
Tumblong ; can’t yer read?” said Aubrey.
Frith ignored the interruption and
began to air his knowledge about white
hair on Tamworths being a penalty, add-
ing facetiously: “I expect they spray
A bearded face appeared.
’em with duco to trick the, judges,”
whereupon the rustic one thrust an
aggressive chin against the face of his
idol’s detractor and said savagely: “I
bred that pig, mister, and if you
think” But I dragged Frith away
before he bought into a fight.
A few pens along was an outsize in
boars. It had a nasty look, and Frith
just went to pat it when it turned round
and made a snap which nearly mangled
the hat he held in his other hand. Pick-
ing pockets is a deplorable hobby, yet I
was justified, I think, in hoisting the
catapult I caught Aubrey sneaking back
into his pocket.
By the time Aubrey had armed him-
self, at my expense, with six bags of
salted peanuts (which thirst-provokers
were later to cost me two bottles of
ginger-beer) we were ready for the cattle.
There seemed to be a large assortment
of kine, none of which appeared to be
lowing. If they were, we couldn’t hear
them, what with Aubrey talking and the
loudspeakers going. As a whole, the
cattle seemed to be honest, hardworking
advertisements for chewing-gum.
The polled Herefords, whose marcelled
hair reflected the loving work of their
grooms, all seemed to wear worried
looks, due to wondering, perhaps, why
they didn’t have horns like the rest.
Frith, whose aunt once spent. a holiday
on a poultry-farm, assured me out of
his vast knowledge that, though Here-
fords are savage, their hornlessness made
them harmless. Maybe, but from the
few skulls I felt I still think they could
give you a nasty nudge.
Every second animal seemed to have
won a prize. After all, that’s what they
came down for, so why disappoint them?
We stopped to admire the grand cham-
pion Jersey cow, which had an udder
that looked as big as the petrol-tank of
a 10-ton truck, when a bearded face
appeared from somewhere under its
milking arrangement and a voice rumbled
enthusiastically: “Great tits these Jerseys
got, ain’t they?” Fearing a lengthy
diatribe, we nodded and passed on.
We had just reached the end of the
line of stalls when there was a fearful
yell behind us, and Aubrey flew out the
door, pursued by an irate attendant. A
minute later the latter returned, out-
stripped and narked, and upon our sym-
pathetic inquiry he said he had caught
?ne kid currycombing a prize-winning
Aberdeen Angus bull. Aubrey’s efforts
were apparently successful, a large bit
of the animal’s rump looking as if it
had been stricken with the mange. We
said that if we had a brat like that we’d
kick him clean into Centennial Park. The.
attendant seemed grateful for our re-
marks, and we hurried out. We gathered
from the impenitent Aubrey later (as we
entered the near-by flower show he
fastened on to us), when he boasted of
his feat, that he had picked up the curry-
comb when passing a horse-stall.
I wanted to see the wood-chopping,
but Frith vetoed it. He said it would
remind him too forcefully of the pile of
wood in his backyard waiting to be
chopped for the winter fires. He seemed
grateful at my thoughtful suggestion that
he send his . wife to study the technique
of the champion axemen.
The glad eye given us by a couple of
ice-cream girls was wasted, as Aubrey
clung to us with leechlike tenacity with
the approach of dinner-time. As soon
as I mentioned the word “lunch” Aubrey
gave a piercing whoop of joy and rushed
into the dining-room. Half an hour later,
when we had finished, Aubrey was just
getting into his stride. To my suggestion
that he go through the menu again while
we had a smoke outside he joyfully and
vociferously responded.
I’m wondering whether the restaurant
people kicked up much of a fuss when
The glad eye was wasted.
he, wanted to leave, and if he got home
all right.
Not that it matters much, anyway.


SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Thus far the AJ.C. has had favor-
able weather for its autumn meetings,
and the racing has been splendid. But
attendances show another decline —on
Saturday there were 52,500 spectators at
Randwick, compared with 56,800 on the
1936 Doncaster Day. Apparently a great
many punters telephoned their wagers to
s.p. bookmakers and then listened to the
wireless reports. They are influenced
to do this sort of thing by the monstrous
taxes imposed by the stupidest post-war
Government Sydney has had bar one —
Lang’s last.
Not only does this fat-headed Admin-
istration collect a 9 p.c. tax on the value
of every tote ticket bought, but it takes
tuppence on every shilling deposited at
the entrance gates, lOd. on every two
shillings produced at the Leger ticket-
boxes and 3s. 2d. on every ten shillings
planked down at the paddock windows.
Also, its Tramway Department demands
a shilling return for a ride that ordi-
narily costs sixpence. Racing will never
prosper while all this legalised robbery
is practised.
On the score of general quality the
field that contested the Doncaster,
though numbering only 15, has had
few superiors in the history of the race.
The Bulletin picked Silver Rose at the
declaration of the weights and stuck to
her in its final selection, though reports
as to her being an unlikely starter caused
the price to go to 25 to I—on1 —on the course,
although 25 to 1 could be got, the gen-
eral quotation was 20 to 1. Silver Rose
made a noble effort to win all the way.
In the straight she beat off challenges
by King’s Head and Pamelus, but, shift-
ing out in the last 30 or 40 yards, she
was passed by Sarcherie (12 to 1), whose
rider, Maxwell, had had her on the rails
most of the journey. Had O’Sullivan,
Silver Rose’s jockey, been able to keep
her on the rails, Sarcherie could scarcely
have got up in time---J. J. Leahy, the
Archery mare’s owner, has himself ad-
mitted this. However, such things are all
in the game, and Silver Rose went under
by three-quarters of a length after hav-
ing been chiefly instrumental in setting
a record for the race, lmin. 354-sec.
The Victorian mare Evening Mist (33
to 1) just cut Pamelus out of third place.
King’s Head was fifth. Excuses were
made for Pamelus —for example, “he
lugged out” —but the 2-to-l favorite had
the run of the race. Prittle Prattle, slow
to begin, made up a lot of ground and
finished sixth.
The Ring won handsomely on the
race, but one newspaper had the gall to
announce that it lost.
The veteran Melbourne trainer Frank
Musgrave has a tophole galloper in Ajax,
who is owned by E. L. Baillieu and A. W.
Thompson. Ajax’s opponents in the
Sires’ Produce Stakes looked very cheap
when he had done with them. McCarten
was instructed to let the colt hit the front,
and he quickly put the result beyond
doubt. Caesar (6 to 4) tried to run him
down, but the A.J.C. chairman’s colt was
beaten by five lengths, Nightguard being
another half a neck away.
Ajax started at fives. He is a very
stylish-looking bay colt by Heroic-Med-
menham. His time, lmin. 23|sec.,
equalled the Australasian record for
seven furlongs. Had he been ridden out
new figures would have been registered.
For the Autumn Plate Allunga started
at 10 to 9 on after having been laid at
6 to 4. Spear Prince made the running
for a mile and a quarter, and then Lough
Neagh was left in front. The old fellow
was squeezed slightly when Allunga
joined him at the Leger, but he battled
on gamely and was beaten by half a
neck only. Oro was a middling third;
Fireman was fourth. Cuddle was always
tailed off, and should never have been
allowed to start. Wotan did a bit better
than at Warwick Farm.
On his day Heroic Faith is a good gal-
loper, but the difficulty is to decide which
is his day. Ray Wilson rode the erratic
customer perfectly in the first division of
the Vaucluse Handicap, checking him
till the Leger was reached and then let-
ting him have his head. In the end
Heroic Faith beat Cloudy and Assai
handily. He went out at 14 to 1.
Red Thespian, a stable-mate of Mestor-
avon, captured the second division of the
Vaucluse Handicap. The Victorians
voted Gay Chou a racecourse certainty.
He was in front to the turn, but was wor-
ried out of the lead by Mohican, who
just failed to withstand Red Thespian’s
long run. Red Thespian’s price was 8 to
1 ; Mohican was in strong demand at
sixes. Bombus was third, Gay Chou re-
ceding to fifth place.
Barramul did most of the work in the
St. Leger, and Gold Rod (11 to 8 on)
found it no easy job to shake him off.
However, the chestnut succeeded after
a sharp tussle, and went on to win—
not easily—by a length and a half, Prince
Quex and Peerage just beating Barramul
for places. Gold Rod gave McCarten
his third success in the Leger. George
Price, the trainer, previously scored with
Windbag and Veilmond. The track was
fast, and the time (3min. and the
manner in which the victory was accom-
plished still leave it doubtful whether
Gold Rod can stay.
On Monday Yashmak (6 to 1) had an
easy win in the Easter Plate. Delight led
for five or six furlongs, but over the last
furlong could not pace it with Yashmak,
who is by Veilmond-Bavermaine. There
is a dash of Wakeful blood in her on
the dam’s side.
Nothing in the Doncaster field looked
to be in better fettle than Silver Rose,
and she ran a race every inch up to her
appearance. She further proved the
soundness of the condition with a good
win in the La Perouse Handicap, for
which The Bulletin picked her as well
as for the Doncaster. Evidently the stiff
Doncaster run took nothing out of her.
Rather poorly away, she moved up easily
to be handy to the leaders, Moonray and
High Speech, at the turn, and had no
trouble passing them with a furlong to
go, ending the six furlongs a comfortable
couple of lengths ahead of Canegrass and
Grand Mogul. The filly closed at twos;
early punters got a lot better odds.
The Bulletin’s Doncaster - Sydney
Cup double was Silver Rose and Mestor-
avon, the first leg a capital second and
Mestoravon a good winner in the Cup.
Lough Neagh, Sarcherie and Viceroy
were scratched, leaving only 10, a small
field. El Senorita, Sir Ross and Spear
Prince did all the leading to the home
turn from Oro and Fireman. In the
straight Allunga showed up temporarily,
but could not keep it up, and once Dun-
can asked for the effort from Mestor-
avon, who was third-last early, it was all
over. Sir Ross and Oro in the places ;
three-quarters of a length, a head. As
in the Doncaster, the time (3min.
21isec.) was a course record.
Tote divs. on Mestoravon were (for
10s.) £3 2s straightout, £1 ss. for a place
Average price in the ring was about fives.
»:= * s= *
First, second and third in the Don-
caster are mares ; and only another mare
was among the 15 starters. It was sug-
gested to punters by the writer of the
Picking ’Em articles, particularly in B.
2/12/’36, that this would be an uncom-
monly good year for mares: “Over a
large part of Australia 1936 was another
drought year. Not improbably this has
had something to do with the successes
of Capris, Amalia, Alinura and the rest,
and possibly mares will go on winning
big races, as they did in 1902, 1903 and
afterwards.” Since that was written
Studio, Silver Rose, Sarcherie and El
Senorita have been very successful.
£! C ❖
Sarcherie and Silver Rose are trained
at Rosehill. Sydney racegoers are never
provided with track notes from that
quarter, although all the year round Mel-
bourne papers report the work done at
Flemington, Caulfield, Epsom and Men-
tone. The only bit of racing news from
Rosehill published last week was a story
that Silver Rose was a doubtful starter
in the Doncaster. In the retrospect how
ridiculous it reads!
* .* * v
Two years ago this Page tipped Sar-
cherie to win the double, Doncaster and
Sydney Cup. It reasoned that the fields
in both races were much below the aver-
age, and that Sarcherie had only 7St. 101 b.
in the mile, and, even if penalised 101 b.,
would have no more than Bst. 71b. in the
Cup. She ran unplaced in the Doncaster,
being interfered with and hurt —so much
so that she came out of the Cup. That
race went to an inferior stable-mate,
Akuna, who never won again. And now
Sarcherie, with Bst. 101 b., has beaten a
Bulletin outsider for the Doncaster. It
seems rough on this organ of opinion.
st * * .*
“T.”: In with the same weight (7st. 51b.),
Silver Rose would have won three Don-
casters out of four. It was largely be-
cause of the bonny chestnut’s pacemak-
ing that the Australasian record for a mile
(lmin. 35isec.) was equalled ; then the
Rossendale mare had to beat off two
uncommonly good milers in Pamelus and
King’s Head before being tackled by Sar-
cherie. As happens in nine cases out
of ten, the second challenge was a trifle
100 much for the one who had done all
the bullocking; even so, if Silver Rose
hadn’t shifted out Sarcherie would have
been a good second. It was the Silver
Rose party’s bad luck that the Doncaster
was run two or three seconds faster than
average time.
* * * *
That Keeping Watch was a good thing
beaten in the Moonee Ponds Handicap
on March 20 was made clear when Steve
Murphy’s gelding won the Easter Stakes
at Williamstown. As on the previous
occasion, Keeping Watch started favor-
ite. Skidmore adopted different tactics
from those pursued by Elliot at Moonee
Valley; he took Keeping Watch to the
front, and—except for a brief period
when Highardo had control—Keeping
Watch remained there.
Keeping Watch had to be ridden out
to score by a neck from Lilirene, who
defeated him by half a head for second
at the Valley. The Trivalve mare is a
good deal better than people imagined,
and her turn to win ought to be near at
hand. Donaster finished only a mod-
erate third, but did not get a favorable
passage at the home bend. The Trump
(7 to 2), next in request to Keeping
Watch (6 to 4), ran fifth. He appears
to be quite sound again, but has not yet
regained his best form.
Harry Freedman, now in Sydney buy-
ing yearlings, won the first two events
on the card at Williamstown. His own.
horse, Triteleia, collared the Seaford
Trial Hurdle, and El Golea (15 to 1),
trained for R. A. Henderson, van-
quished the 7-to-2 favorite, Campaspe, in
the Maiden Two-year-old Handicap.
Triteleia, a comparative outsider at 8
to 1, scored in excellent style from
Shadow Moon, a promising jumper from
the stable of H. W. Gabell, and Reha-
boam, latter being the first choice of
backers. By Great Star from Mauve
(imp.), Triteleia is a brother to the dam
of Gay Lover, who lost the last AJ.C.
Epsom Handicap on a protest and sub-
sequently lowered the colors of Pamelus
in the V.R.C. Cantala Stakes.
More will be heard of El Golea. He
ran down the pacemakers, Notable and
Miss Devlin, as soon as the straight was
entered, and stalled off a vigorous chal-
lenge from Campaspe, who came late
on the scene. El Golea is by Eastern
Monarch (sire of the 1930 Metrop.
winner, Cragford) from Versatile,
through whose veins runs the good old-
fashioned blood of Carbine, Malvolio,
Trenton and Yattendon. Notable, third,
is by “S. A. Rawdon’s” imported stallion
Parenthesis and belongs to T. C. Mani-
fold, who recently beat E. J. Gorman,
K.C., in the poll for a vacancy on the
V.R.C. committee.
Success of Gold Streak (9 to 4) in
the Point Cook Trial largely resulted
from the patient riding of Dempsey, who
allowed three tearaway horses to lead
him into the straight. Assuming charge
a furlong from home, Gold Streak
reached the judge a neck in advance of
Black Mac, with Fine Son (a coming
winner) only a head farther off. Fine
Son is trained by Kelly, who was on
Rostrum when that horse beat his stable
companion Fleuriste in the 1922 Epsom.
“Horrie” Leek missed a substantial
coup over Campaspe in the juvenile race,
but is a plucky better and didn’t hesitate
to stake heavily on Clever Son when the
Werribee Highweight came on for deci
sion. At 9 to 4 the Son o’ Mine gelding
went out in slightly better request than
Diaphane (Caledon-Scintilla).
Diaphane is on the way to renewed
success. He headed for home like a
winner, but tired, and was beaten by both
Clever Son and the veteran Araunah.
Though Araunah was recently presented
to J. M. Doran, the amateur jockey, by
M. T. McGrath, he remains in Mc-
Grath’s stable. When winter comes the
grey may figure in hurdle races. He has
been frequently schooled by young
Doran.
Winner of the Oakleigh Plate in 1936,
Belle Silhouette is blossoming afresh as
a sprinter. She led all the way in the
Seaside Handicap and prevailed by a
neck from Threelake (3 to 1), who was
nearly as good a favorite as Ogwell.
Latter missed a place, but the run may
improve him. Nice odds of 10 to 1 were
procurable about Belle Silhouette.
Demotic (7 to 2) justified The Bulle
tin’s selection by running away with the
Williamstown Easter Cup. Sindicada lit
out from the start and raced alone for one
and a half of the two miles, five lengths
or more ahead of Benthos and Mutable.
Demotic, holding fourth or fifth place
for most of the journey, ran down the
leaders at the turn, slipped away for a
couple of lengths’ break, and was still
going away at the post, from High
Ardor, who came up from a long way
back, and Mutable.
* *
At the end of 1936 Queensland fol-
lowed the idiotic example of the more
populous States in making the publica-
tion of pre-post odds a punishable
offence. Previously Queensland news-
papers reaching Sydney and Melbourne
had given particulars of the betting on
important Melbourne and Sydney races,
and this was at least a check on the odds-
cramping brotherhood. Now only the
Westralian Government permits its news-
papers to retain one of their ancient
liberties, and Westralian newspapers
arrive too late in the larger capitals to
be of any use to punters there. What
good purpose is served by this sort ot
embargo nobody who is not a politician
or a bookmaker has ever been able to
discover. If it is really believed that the
effect is to discourage betting, not only
the persons in institutions for the treat-
ment of mental disorder should be under
restraint.
FOR RANDWICK.
WEDNESDAY.
All-Aged Plate: Pamelus ; next,
Gold Rod.
Coogee Handicap: Country Party
or Upoko Ariki (same stable); next,
Prittle Prattle.
Champagne Stakes: Ajax ; next,
Bristol.
Bronte Handicap: Silver Rose, if
started; otherwise, Country Party
or Lucky Kid ; next, Bradford.
Cumberland Plate: Lough
Neagh; next, Sarcherie.
City Handicap: Barramul; next,
Panrose.
SATURDAY.
Rous Handicap: A seven-furlong
race that should suit EVENING
MIST. But SILVER ROSE is pre-
ferred, with a start.
Woollahra and Dangar Handi-
caps ; KINSFOLK is in both.
This filly is not much of a
miler, but should go a mile and
a half, the Dangar Handicap dis-
tance. FERNACRE may win the
other race.
C. W. Cropper Plate: PAME-
LUS ; but CEREZA may be diffi-
cult to defeat.
A.J.C. Plate: At the end of the
meeting, WOTAN may be better
able to compass the long journey
di miles) than Lough Neagh, Sar-
cherie or Allunga.
Final Handicap: Jamieson has
his pair, UPOKO ARIKI and
COUNTRY PARTY, in this also,
and he has a weakness for Final
Handicaps. LUCKY KID and
BRAZENO are possibilities.
FOR ASCOT (MELBOURNE).
Eclipse Handicap: Marion Mel-
ton ; next, Sunraysia.
Belhaven Handicap: Lilirene;
next, Elyse Farndon.
Grafton Welter: Dark Prince ;
next, Peace Patrol.


. ' *r
X
Injures Heart: Turns Active People into Invalids
Joint Trouble; Backache; Swollen
Hands & Feet; Muscular, & Many
Nerve Pains due to URIC ACID.
sdf
Uric Acid poisons should be filtered out by the Kidneys. Failure
means that the acid collects in the blood, nerves, joints, and
muscles as needle-sharp crystals, causing pain, and leading to
intense agony. Often the bowels and digestion become disordered,
and skin becomes muddy; headaches, bad breath, palpitation
feverishness, lethargy, puffy eyes, and broken rest add to the
'rapid decline. To END uric acid, and strengthen the kidneys
against further attacks, the famous Harrison’s Pills prescrip-
tion is unrivalled. Thousands of one-time sufferers have found
grateful relief by taking this great remedy of a London Doctor.
*LIEE 9 Begins —nr Etuis —at 40
URIC AClD—due to Kidney Breakdown, with Bladder and Urinary Weak-
ness—strikes worst at 40. Most deaths from HEART DISEASE are due to
Rheumatic Infection. The menace is serious, and neglect is most unwise.
The one safe and promptly effective remedy is Harrison’s Pills. These pills
at once expel the deadly acid, and safely, unfailingly, strengthen the Kidneys
and Bladder so that further attacks are definitely thwarted.
What Uric
Acid Does
'lff Ml
s:
w
iMniin
A Grateful User Writes:
“Harrison’s Kidney and Bladder Pills are the
only pills that do me any good .... they saved
me going to the Hobart Public Hospital week after
week, I suffered from splitting headaches, giddi-
ness, and I was bent over like a half-shut pen-
knife with my back. Last August I was in bed
five weeks —thanks to HARRISON’S PILLS, 1
am out of bed now. You can use this to let any-
one else know.
“(Signed) J. Taylor.”
Harrison’s Pills END the Process of Decline; renew Vitality and banish
Rheumatic Pains, Back Aches, Joint Swellings or Stiffness, Neuritis, Diz-
ziness, Sediment, Stone, Inflammation, and Urinary Troubles. Harri-
son’s Pills bring quick recovery, regardless of age, because they promptly
end the CAUSE of the breakdown. Your Chemist sells Harrison’s Pills
in 3 sizes, at 2/-, 3/-, 5/-.
sadf
Diaqram shoujinq fo|pes of!
Needle-point Uric Acid Crqsfals*
sadf
sdf
NEW
STANDARD
OF
USED CAR VALUE/
1
Sr#
AA
BLUE SEAL Reconditioned'e GuaranteeJ
USED CARS AND TRUCKS
NOW introduced by Authorised Ford Dealers, this
plan provides new protection for every used car
and truck buyer. It has been designed to place the
selling of used vehicles on a sound basis of confidence
similar to that applying to the sale of the new
Ford units.
The keynote of the plan is honest value. That is
why the "Blue Seal” car or truck symbol has been
adopted—it denotes the finest value in used vehicles.
"Blue Seal” cars or trucks offered by Ford Dealers
have been reconditioned and are fully guaranteed.
A Guarantee Certificate is supplied with each unit.
Ask your Ford Dealer for particulars of the many
advantages of this used car plan, including the
5-Day Exchange Privilege and the Owner’s Service
Certificate.
In addition to "Blue Seal” cars, Ford Deal -
ers offer two other standards of used cars.
These are graded strictly in accordance with
quality and represent excellent value for
money.
“Square Deal” Value Used Cars
asdf
Used cars and trucks in this group
are guaranteed fo be in sound mech-
anical order. They are sold with
Guarantee Certificate. Enquire about
5-Day Exchange Privilege and
Owner’s Service Certificate.
Used Cars and Trucks “As Is"
sadf
Vehicles in this group are sold in the
condition in which they are received.
Many will interest buyers who can
do their own reconditioning. See your
dealer about 5-Day Exchange Privi-
lege and Owner’s Service Certificate.
All Makes and Mailels . .
• . All Prices
Inserted on behalf of
AUTHORISED FORD DEALERS
by FORD MOTOR COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD. (Inc. in Vic.)
Fl 4 8.241 J
Under the Whip
EI Senorita, who has been a model of
consistency this year, did a sterling
Sydney Cup trial when she won the Vic-
toria Park Handicap at the Sydney race-
course of that name. The distance was
a mile and a quarter and 121 yards, and
she ran it in 2min. 124 sec., which is
good time for the course. And the mare
had 9st. and was conceding 221 b. to Pan-
rose, who on Feb. 28 was a good second,
with 7st. 21b., to Sir Ross (7st. 51b.)
in City Tatt.’s Cup at Randwick. For
the Sydney Cup, Sir Ross was awarded
7st. 31b. and El Senorita 7st. 61b., so,
on figures, the mare was meeting Panrose
on unfavorable terms. Latharna (Bst. 21b.
at the Park and 7st. 51b. in the Cup) was
third —“a length and a half, a head”; and
among the unplaced lot were Linklet and
Measure. It was 5 to 1 the field (Latharna
and Linklet) and sixes bar the two.
Another good winner at Victoria Park
was Pavarti, whose race was a division !
of the Flying Handicap. She had 11 ,
opponents, but only the runner-up, Glen-
witch, was backed to any extent to beat
her, and from evens the mare from Rose-
hill went to 7 to 4 on. She was ridden
by Billy Cook, who had been engaged
to ride El Senorita in the Sydney Cup,
but could not take the mount on her in
the Victoria Park Handicap (McCarten
got it), having been booked to ride Sally.
For 11 races the Victoria Park con-
cern—proprietary, of course —distributed
£833 6s. 9d. The principal prize was
worth a whole £95 to El Senorita’s
owner, the owner of the second horse
being presented with a princely £l5 and
the owner of the third horse with a noble
tenner. And this was the meeting im-
mediately preceding Doncaster and Leger
Day at Randwick. On the same Wednes-
day, Moonee Valley, which is a real club,
held a charity meeting, the Children’s
Hospital and the Melbourne Dental Hos-
pital being the beneficiaries ; there were
seven races, and the prizes totalled £lO5O,
£250 being hung up for the chief race —
and there were only five starters. And a
man could see it from the paddock for
125., first-class return from Flinders-
street to Moonee Ponds being and
second-class return Admission to
the Victoria Park paddock cost 14s. and
transport by Government tram from the
city Is. return. Some of the alleged
horses engaged are not worth 15 bob.
* * * *
“Sefton”: The centenary Grand
National was won by Royal Mail at the
nice price of 100 to 6. The third, Pucka-
belle, was at the same quote, while
thirty-threes were offered against Cooleen,
which ran second can’t you hear
the Ring’s lamentations? Royal Mail is
owned by the. British Ambassador in
Paris, Hugh Lloyd-Thomas, who has
been a noted amateur in his day, and
rode his own prad in the race in 1934.
Don Bradman went out at 100 to 8, and
fell at the first fence. Golden Miller,
favorite at eights, let his backers down
badly. He jumped like the champion he
is until he reached the fence where he
got a dirty spill two years ago. He then
took one look and stuck in his toes.
Last year the Miller showed he was
sick of jumping for the amusement of
humans. When a horse does that or
runs sulky on the flat, as our own Peter
Pan did, it is time to pension him off.
Footbrawl
“Fitzcray”: The fortieth annual report
of the V.F. League contents itself with
mentioning that last season’s attendances
and takings were the largest on record,
and indications already were that 1937 j
would be even more prosperous. The j
League’s H.Q., Harrison House, a few
years ago cost £21,200. Of this £11,200
has been paid, and what with loans and
assets which included a cash deposit of
£2250 in the bank the League is in a
mighty prosperous condition.
* * * *
“Fitzcray”: After much finessing the
V.F.L. sprang a new rule on the
delegates which provides for the limita-
tion of senior players signed-on by each
club each season to 40. The reasons
given are cloaked in pious aspirations
that the rule will result in an improved
standard of play and that the clubs will
become more even in strength. Put
less politely, it will prevent rich clubs
from signing-up every promising player
in sight at the beginning of the season
simply to prevent the other fellow get-
ting hold of them.
* * * He
“Old Q.”: In spite of denials, the
crack Union three-quarter McLean (B.
24/3/’37) has joined the professional
League, and will play with an Ipswich
(Q.) club. He was probably the best j
winger in Australia, and in association
('Continued on next page .)


« S'LVER
EoGc.”
TRADE (7 MARK REGISTERED
THE RAYBESTOS CO.
BRAKE
LINING
You Must Have Reliable Brakes!
DO you realise that the brakes of a normal weight of touring car
are called upon to perform work at the rate of approximately
90 horse-power?
Practically the whole of the energy stored in your moving car
has to be converted into heat at the brakes before the car can come
to rest.
Your brakes must be reliable and capable of withstanding these
high loads and temperatures, so use only high quality brake lining.
As\ for “Raybestos,” which has proved itself over many years of service.
RA YBESTOS-BF LA r O LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Factory Rep.: JOHN ARNOLD, G.P.O. Box 71, MELBOURNE, VIC.
BCL\/iijEKt WM BtLVEGEKE
sdf
MADE BY
MARTIN, SONS & CO., LTD.,
HUDDERSFIELD, ENGLAND,
THE FOUNDERS OF THE WORSTED INDUSTRY.
m
THE IDEAL OF ALL WELL-DRESSED MEN.
POSITIVELY
THE LARGEST RANGE OF EXCLUSIVE DESIGNS
EVER PRESENTED FOR MEN’S
SUITINGS
sadf
B t UV E 0 £ K t
BELVEDERE I>S» BtIVEOEKE . i>S‘> BeiA/COERC B*'
with Hey, now also at Ipswich, should
do big things for the Holy City and
Queensland. McLean was angled for
by Huddersfield, but the canny Tykes
would noi pay the £BOO bonus he asked.
He is a certain selection for the N.S.W.-
Q. League learn which is to tour the
North of England.
¥ ¥ ¥ *
“Cash Amateur”: The N.S.W. Rugby
Union has suddenly had a spasm of
virtue. A Drummoyne three-quarter,
Rankin, played the other day in a prac-
tice match with Balmain’s Rugby League
team. Rankin seems to have had no in-
tention of joining the professional ranks ;
nevertheless the Union, which has
ignored real breaches, asked him to ex-
plain his lapse, and suspended him for
a whole practice match.
¥ * ¥ ¥
“Newlands”: The South African
Rugby team to tour Australia will be
announced on April 10 and will sail from
Cape Town on the Ulysses on May 14. In
view of the refusal of the professional
League to allow the Union to use the
S.C.G. ground on June 19 and 26, dates
already fixed for big matches in Sydney,
two tentative itineraries have been
drawn up. The first retains June 19 for
a match with Australia in Sydney, though
the ground is not stated. The second
cuts out both the disputed dates in
Sydney and substitutes July 10 and 17
—both for Test matches —in Sydney at
the S.C.G., which the League will have
to surrender in favor of the international
matches, since it can only field club
matches itself.
The visitors may now be switched first
to Brisbane to play the Queensland sec-
tion of their tour there. Then, returning
to Sydney, they ,-ill be able to get the
use of the big ground, say, on July 3
and 10.
¥ ¥ ¥ ¥
“Birkenhead Park”: The International
Rugby Board has had its annual tinker
at the rules. Scrum-halves in future must
be not less than three feet from the
scrum when they put the ball in. Con-
scientious referees will in future carry a
foot-rule to check distances, and half-
backs, now that they are allowed to throw
instead of placing, will be able to get
that much-desired off- or leg-break on
the ball so much appreciated by front-
row experts. When a penalty try is given
it must be. between the posts. Penalty
tries are as rare in Rugby as pink
elephants at a Temperance Union meet-
ing, though the need for them occurs in
nearly every match.
¥ ¥ ¥ ¥
“Birkenhead Park”: England won the
British international Rugby championship
with an undefeated record, downing
Wales, Ireland and Scotland in succes-
sion. In each case victory was narrowly
gained, and the final win from Scotland
on the latter’s ground at Murrayfield,
near Edinburgh, by 6-3 was about the
widest of the margins. With the cham-
pionship went the Calcutta Cup, attached
to the English-Scottish clash each year.
This is the first time since Scotland went
into the new ground that England has
won there. Last year Scotland rubbed
it in by downing England at home at
Twickenham and took the Cup north.
Now it is up and o’er the Border again.
¥ ¥ ¥ ¥
“Stand-Off”: The professional Rugby
League in Sydney has refused to agree to
the Rugby Union’s use of the. Sydney
Cricket Ground for two matches against
the Springboks. Under its agreement
with the Cricket Ground trustees the
League must give up a certain number
of dates to other codes unless it requires
the ground for international or inter-
state matches. It waited until the Union
had applied for the June 19 and 26 dates
and then announced it would require the
ground for matches with Queensland.
When the Union protested the League
replied, in a characteristic spirit, that if
the Union recognised in writing the
League’s 10 years’ lease and informed the
Unions of the great Rugby countries —
South Africa, England, Scotland, Ireland,
Wales and France —of its condescension,
it might consider giving the Union the
desired dates. A professional organisa-
tion should never have been permitted
to tie up a ground dedicated to amateur
sport.
***
“Cash Amateur”: The Rugby Union
ought to send N.S.W. r)ressrn°n a conv
of its rules as to professionalism—if it
has any in print. A leading Sydney
“I don’t play a very good game, but I get a lot of fun out of it”
paper announces that Steggall, the ex-
Queensland R.U. player, has joined a
Cessnock (N.S.W.) League club. The
expert blandly observes that Steggall will
play as an amateur —“that will enable
him to retain his Rugby Union
status.” The fact is that if a player
takes part in a League game he forfeits
his amateur standing, handout or no
handout.
Nineteenth Hole
“Hoylake”: Harry Vardon, probably
the greatest golfer of all time, is dead
at 67. Born in Jersey, Vardon set a new
standard for professional golfers, who up
to his day were rated in the “artisan”
class. Though the old school of these
suffered agonies by his shattering of many
of the established conventions, Vardon
soon found a following among the
younger professionals, and raised their
standing to the plane they occupy to-day.
The perfect stylist, Vardon won practi-
cally every major title, save that of
France. He took the British open six
times, and the American once —in 1900.
Thirteen years afterwards he tied for this
title and lost the play-off to Francis
Ouimet. He left an enduring reminder
behind him in the “overlapping grip.”
“Coif”: Golfers who like to have a
ball on the game may be interested in
a decision by the British Courts. Those
world’s sweethearts the income-tax
people billed Archie Compston for tax
on bets won by him on his play. Coun-
sel for the taxgatherers said that some-
times Compston netted over £lOOO a
year from these wagers, which, counsel
maintained, were made in the course of
his vocation as a professional golfer.
The Bench backed Compston’s claim that
the bets had nothing to do with his voca-
tion, but were purely voluntary, and
therefore no more taxable than any
ordinary person’s winnings. Costs
against the income-tax plaintiffs; loud
cheers!
¥ ¥ ¥ ¥
“Woogaroo”: Hagen and Kirkwood
asked for a guarantee of £2OO before
they would go to Queensland for an ex-
hibition tour. The Bananalanders re-
plied that they hadn’t got 200 simoleons
and wouldn’t stick ’em up if they had.
They also pointed out that Sarazen’s
tour gave him a good profit, much of
which came from his match with the
Queenslander, Von Nida. If Hagen had
accepted Von N.’s challenge for a £5O
stake, the northerners say, there would
have been no need for a £2OO guarantee.
Racquet and Bawl
“Gezireh”: European tennis players
are warming-up for the Davis Cup
series. Italians and Germans have
been figuring prominently in the Egyp-
tian championships, in which Maori-
landers Stedman and Malfroy have also
been heard from. The surprise occa-
sioned by the sudden rise to fame of
the Yugoslavs last year may be repeated.
After their convincing showing in the
semi-finals of the Davis Cup the Yugo-
slav authorities sent them on tour to
pick up experience, their tour including
India and Eastern Asia. This season
they visited South Africa, and the win-
ning of the Springbok championship by
Pallada is cabled.
*■* * *
“Coup de Botte”: The Australian pro-
posal for a women’s international
championship received short shrift at the
meeting of the International Tennis
Federation in Paris. R. H. Youdale
proposes to revive the matter at the
Davis Cup meeting in July. As You-
dale says, in effect, from 50 to 60 per
cent, of the world’s tennis membership
is feminine, and he has no doubt that
if lovely woman girds up her shorts and
puts her foot down with a sufficiently
firm hand she will scare the male of the
species into giving her her own way in
this as in other matters.
¥ * ¥ ¥
“Hotham”: The A.L.T.A. is inviting
its British opposite numbers to send out
a women’s team, five players and a
manager, to tour Australia at the end of
the year. England’s side may be the
Wightman Cup team, which is to play
America at Forest Hills. The girls will
be in California in October and could
leave by the Mariposa. They will not
need to be back in England until March,
1938. The proposed tour is to last three
months, beginning in Brisbane.
¥ * ¥ *
“Top Spin”: Further alterations in
the rules of tennis. In future no player
will be allowed to use spikes longer
than three-eighths of an inch; hitherto
spikes of the length of at least half an
inch had to be. worn. It is to be hoped
the momentous change will not affect the
course of the Davis Cup competition and
the form of its temperamental expo-
nents. One can see yet another official
on the sidelines with a slide-rule to check
the length of the spikes.


V
>s
■
m
t
A REAL OLYMPIAN!
J. E. LOVELOCK (New Zealand )
who established a new world's record of
3 min. 47.8 secs, for the 1500 Metres
Run at the Berlin Olympic Games,
displayed remarkable endurance, speed
and stamina.
His display at the Berlin Olym-
piad was regarded as the most
technically perfect of all com-
peting athletes.
A runner of Lovelock’s calibre
must be thoroughly sound in
wind and limb to perform so
efficiently, and his performance
proved his physical capabilities
just as safe performance and long
service prove the superiority of—
Olympic Cyres
For Cars, Trucks, Cycles !
“I must say this is
a grand
cigarette”
ft
\N
9
l
0
A
U
“So you smoke du Maurier, eh?
I haven’t tried one yet.”
“Hadn’t myself, a month ago:
now, I don’t feel I want to try any-
thing else.”
•fjgy
9
“H’m ! They’re certainly good ..
never tasted better Virginia . .
“ They are kind to
your throat, too, with
| this filter tip. ”
\
\
Y
35
*' Well—thanks for the
lift. Saved me a longish
walk.”
“ And thanks
for the introduction
Jo du Maurier!”
H OWEVER long you have smoked,
however many cigarettes you have tried, to
smoke your first du Maurier is to make a fresh
start. For the first time you taste the inner flavour
of pure Virginia, revealed as only the filter tip
can reveal it. For the first time Virginia smoke
comes to you free from the bitterness of burning.
It is more than a new cigarette you have found—
it’s a new enjoyment in smoking.
e :
1
du M A U R I E R 20 for i'6
CIGARETTES WITH THE FILTER TIP MADE IN LONDON
Also obtainable : 10 for 9d, 50 for lOO for 7^6
AGENTS FOR NEW SOUTH WALES AND QUEENSLAND: ST. JAMES TOBACCO DISTRIBUTORS LTD., 185 CLARENCE ST., SYDNEY.
ISSUED BY THE MANUFACTURERS OF DU MAURIER CIGARETTES, 217 PICCADILLY, LONDON, W. I
G.C. 16.
“Cash Amateur”: Rather late in the
day, Helen Wills-Moody has decided to
throw her weight behind professional
tennis. This will mean that her expressed
intention of trying to win the women’s
championship at Wimbledon for the
eighth time and thus achieve a record
will go to the wall. The only other
famous American woman player to be-
come. professional was Mary Browne,
who is little heard of nowadays. Helen
will confine her professionalism to mak-
ing tennis “shorts” for the fillums, so it
won’t matter much if she has lost her
playing form of a few years ago pro-
vided she has retained her physical form.
Miscellaneous
For the first time since 1923 Oxford
has won the boatrace, and its crew used
swivel rowlocks for the first time. Oxford
boated the heavier crew (average weight,
12st. 1341 b., much heavier than the aver-
age weight of King’s Cup crews) and it
won by three lengths ; the time, 22min.
39sec., was the slowest since 1877. Great
praise is given to Lewes, sometime
of The King’s School, Parramatta, who
had the fine sportsmanship to withdraw
from the Oxford crew when he found he
was not pulling his weight. The “Times”
describes him as an “outstandingly able
and inspiring president.”
* * * *
“Queens”: Cambridge got the better
of Oxford in the ’Varsity sports by nine
events to two. A. G. Browne, the Light
Blue Olympian, won the 100 in 10 dead
and the quarter in 48sec. 4min. —both
records for these games.
* * *
“Aigburth”: The return of the. Eng-
lish cricketers from Australia has started
the usual flood of fool-suggestions. One
brilliant innovator points out the injus-
tice in the fact that the man who bowls
Bradman gets no more credit for it than
he who dismisses Fleetwood-Smith. He
would like, to see the chap who outs a
batsman whose average the preceding
season is 20 or less awarded one point.
For batsmen with averages from 20 to
40 the “award” would be two points, and
for averages over 40, three points. How
the points are to be recorded and under
what heading in the score-sheet' is not
suggested, and should prove a tricky
problem if the idea is adopted.
* * * *
“Lancaster Park”: The Marylebone
tourists struck more rain in their opening
match of the M.L. tour, and a draw re-
sulted when the. tourists looked winners
all the way. England scored 217 and
eight for 250. Wyatt, with 63 and 100,
led the batting, though Worthington
made a hard-hit 79 in the second innings.
The home side got no further than 157
(Copson 3-26, Voce 2-43, Hammond 3-4).
* * * *
“Mak”: The M.L. team for England
includes a tidy lot of Rugby Union men.
Skipper Page and the young batsman-
’keeper, Tindill, have both played foot-
ball for different All-Black sides; Page
was half in Porter’s 1928 team and Tin-
dill, also a useful half, went to England
with the last All-Blacks as a five-eighth.
Kerr, the Canterbury batsman who is
making his second tour of England, was
a Wanganui Tech. Rugby star a few
years ago ; Weir, also going overseas for
his second cricket trip, was a well-known
Union man in Auckland. Young Don-
nelly, the Taranaki lad who has only
been away from New Plymouth Boys’
High School a year, played in the school
15 for several seasons, and Carson also
mixes both games.
* * * *.
“The Gaffer”: Encouraging entries are
being received for the Empire Games in
Sydney next year. Two early birds are
Wales and Ceylon, the latter undertak-
ing to send half a dozen competitors
with a couple of officials. England is
sending some of its best Olympic candi-
dates while Maonland promises to ship
the largest team ever to leave, the
Dominion. How the athletes will cotton
to running on grass tracks cannot be
gauged, but Minister Dunmngham, who
is in charge of the show, can placate them
by telling them that the aboriginals used
no other.
“Sprocket”: Opperman and Rogers,
who will represent Australia in the six-
days' race at Wembley, will do most of
their preliminary training in the South
of France. The pair will attend the six-
days’ event in Paris shortly before the
English meeting. All the Continental
cracks who will be at Wimbledon are
competing, and the Australians hope to
get some tips in riding tactics. The
Wembley affair starts on May 16, and
will be the biggest thing of its kind yet
staged ; prize-money totals £5OOO, the
winning team pouching £lOOO.
“Outside. Right”: Back home, the N. S.
Wales polo team which paid a flying
visit to Manila. The side had a- splen-
did time and was most successful.
Among its wins were the championship
of the Philippines and the Exposition and
President’s Cup. Most of the ponies on
both sides were Australian.
$ * * *
“Blade Sight”: The British National
Rifle Association has officially informed
its Australian cobber that a British team
of 14 will shoot in Australia next year.
The team will come out by South Africa,
and after touring Australia Maoriland
will be taken in on the way back. The
special Anniversary meeting is in Sydney
in February, but the side is expected to
shoot in other States. By that time our
men will have had the benefit of their
visit to Bisley this year.
* * * *
“Huon”: Tasmania’s North v. South
race to decide which should represent
Tassie in the King’s Cup in S. Aus. on
April 24 was a washout, North pulling
out at the last moment. It is considered
certain that South will go to Mannum
Bridge without any further argument.
Long, of Lindisfarne, won the champion
sculls by such a margin that he picked
himself for the Australian event.


WIRTHS’K CIRCUS
Greatest Show on Earth!
Cnr. Kiley and Goulburn Streets.
8 p.m. Matinees, Wed. and Sat. at 2.30 p.m.
Mammoth programme includes several star
acts from overseas.
2/-, 3/-, 4/-, 5/-, 6/-. Res. Chairs.
Children half price.
Plan Nicholson’s.
EVERYTHING HERE: WE NEVER DIVIDE-'
SHADOW
SHOWS
“Winterset.”
AVENGER Burgess Meredith
HIS FATHER ...... John Carradine
GANGSTER Eduardo Ciannelli
SLUM GIRL Margo
CRAZY JUDGE Edward Ellis
OLD MAN Maurice Moscovitch
A not entirely successful attempt to
cash-in on the success of a Pulitzer Prize
stage play, interesting because it brings
to the screen, from the stage, some new
actors, and because it demonstrates that
stage economy in settings helps rather
than handicaps dramatic effect.
Plot is simple. A wild-eyed alien radi-
cal is sent to the electric chair on the
flimsiest of circumstantial evidence for
a murder of which he was innocent. He
lays a sort of curse on Judge, who later
becomes mentally unhinged and wanders
about seeking evidence to justify the
conviction. Judge, the son of the
wrongly-convicted man, the actual killer
and his accomplices, and a slum girl who
befriends the avenger are all brought
together by an extra long arm of melo-
dramatic coincidence. Overacting is
rife, but combined with the eerie set-
tings this helps to give the piece a flavor
all its own.
Climax comes when the boy avenger
is trapped in a narrow alley both ends
of which are watched by gunmen thirst-
ing for his gore. The method of his
escape is logical, ingenious and well pre-
pared. The cold-blooded master gang-
ster is caught in his own trap and all
ends happily.
A choice bit of melodrama is the re-
surrection of a man shot three times
through the chest and thrown in the
river. He comes out sopping wet with
rain, blood and river water, intent on
vengeance. Rain pours down solidly
through the whole of the last act. Police-
men pop up every now and then, thwart-
ing the gangsters, who desire to assassi-
nate the Judge, the boy avenger and an
ex-member of their gang.
Burgess Meredith, in style and ap-
pearance a bit like Leslie Howard, makes
a good job of the principal role, and
Margo, though she has little opportunity
to dance, plays up to him well. Cian-
Tyrone Power in “Lloyds of London,”
at Sydney Regent.
nelli very nearly makes the master crook
ridiculously bloodthirsty, and Mosco-
vitch is impossibly saccharine and ben-
evolent as a slum denizen. Carradine
and Ellis are well cast. At Sydney May-
fair.
“Don’t Tell the Wife.”
SNIDE COMPANY
PROMOTER Lynn Overman
HTS WIFE Una Merkel
DUMMY DIRECTOR .. Guy Kibbee
This is the old one about the wild-cat
goldmining co. that actually did have a
bonanza in its long-discredited property.
Overman plays a crook who promised re-
formation when he married, but who
can’t resist the lure of the old game and
who has his hands full trying to convince
Freddie Bartholomew dongs Horatio
Nelson in “Lloyds of London.”
his better-half that his latest undertak-
ing is on the up and up. Kibbee is an
old mutt who was roped in because he
had the same name as a Wall-street mag-
nifico. He rebels when he finds he is
there to hold the baby, journeys to
Mexico, or somewhere like that, to inspect
the mine, and, of course, discovers that
it is simply reeking with the stuff they
used to make money out of. Moral seems
to be that it is better to be lucky than
honest. At Sydney Mayfair.
“My Man Godfrey.”
BLUE-BLOOD BUTLER,
William Powell
HAREBRAINED SOCIALITE,
Carole Lombard
CATTY SISTER Gail Patrick
BATTY MAMMA Alice Brady
Adapted from the novel by Eric
Hatch, America’s Wodehouse, this
sparkling comedy has a hearty slap at
Manhattan’s four hundred. It ripples
swiftly through a maze of nutty
situations.
The film introduces the most rococo
family yet seen on the screen. Pop is
a bull-necked financial wizard who just
manages to keep two jumps ahead of
the mountain of bills his extravagant
family pile up. His wife is a cheerful
nitwit whose protege is a long-haired,
gourmandising parlor hound over whose
genius as a poet-musician she gushes.
Two dizzy daughters and a hard-boiled
maid complete the menage.
Into this household, as its new butler,
comes Godfrey, whom one daughter has
gathered up, unshaven and unkempt,
while he is picking over some old tins
on a rubbish tip, to display him as a
trophy of a Scavenger Hunt, society’s
latest brilliant idea. Thereafter, with
perfect manners, he ministers to the
goofy family. The youngest of the
spoiled daughters throws herself at him,
while the other cattily tries to spike him
at every turn. Of course, it wouldn’t be
decent if he didn’t turn out to be one of
Boston’s blue-bloodiest scions. For
good measure he saves pop from finan-
cial disaster by some snappy stock
juggling. But his good luck can’t last,
and he eventually says “I will” with the
rattle-brained youngest daughter at his
side.
Smooth and polished, William Powell
carries the title role with ease. Carole
Lombard gives a good performance, 90
p.c. of her time in hysterics. Gail Pat-
rick is most impressive, and Alice Brady
gives one of her best characterisations.
Eugene Pallette as the long-suffering
paterfamilias, Alan Mowbray, Mischa
Auer and Jean Dixon give splendid sup-
port. This Universal film raises its
laughs at Sydney Plaza.
“Breezing Home.”
TRAINER William Gargan
NIGHT-CLUB CROONER,
Wendy Barrie
RACEHORSE OWNER, Binnie Barnes
This turfy film doesn’t set the pulses
galloping. The mild situations are mostly
hackneyed, the characters the stock types
of racecourse fiction.
There is the dastardly bookie who in-
duces a jockey to “fix” the lady’s horse
during a race. This unchivalrous action
gets right past the stewards, who later
further demonstrate their astuteness by
having the hahnest trainer and his patron-
ess warned off the course on the slightest
of pretexts. But little things like that and
the loss of their nomination don’t worry
hahnest trainer and patroness, and, of
course, they eventually clean up the big
race and confound McShortodds, with
the barrier up for the start of the
Romance Stakes. There is one bit of
originality in the climax: tossed off the
course, the pair cool down in a police
car, from the radio of which they listen
to the broadcast description of their
triumph.
William Gargan hasn’t yet justified his
elevation to the headlines; a pleasant
grin is a slender stock-in-trade for an
actor. Wendy Barrie is tolerable until
she starts some awful crooning. Binnie
Barnes does her little piece with charm.
At Sydney Plaza.
“The Magnificent Brute.”
BTG STEVE Victor McLaglen
HIS RIVAL William Hall
HIS WEAKNESSES,
Binnie Barnes and Jean Dixon.
Blazing furnaces, molten metal and
gigantic machinery of a steelworks make
the background against which moves the
dominating figure of Big Steve, foundry
Miles Mander in “Lloyds of London .”
ganger. His rival, in work or play, is
an equally large person who revels in
the rough stuff.
Big Steve, when he comes to the mill,
boastfully proclaims himself the great-
est steelworker there. And he is. Driving
his willing furnace team to the limit,
while he does two men’s work himself,
he shatters production records, to his
rival’s chagrin. He even pinches the
rival’s special blonde and gets away with
it. Alas, after an unsuccessful bout with
a professional grappler, he finds that the
blonde has cleared out with the money
he had collected for the widow of a team
mate ; but Steve’s boarding-house keeper,
a blonde widow, whose young son shares
with his mother an affection for the big
fellow, comes to his rescue, ferrets out
the rival’s share in the business and thus
sets the scene for the final all-in stoush.
Designing blonde is outed and attractive
boarding-house keeper gets her man.
Victor McLaglen throws himself into
the part with the zest that is his alone.
When he thumps his enormous chest and
declares that he was “born in a blast
furnace and reared among the rollers’
you believe him. His homely face shines
with goodwill for all but his enemy, and
when he throws his head back and
laughs the cups rattle on the dresser. He
Sir Guy Standing in “Lloyds of London.”
can even raise a grin when the pro.
wrestler back-slams him four times in
almost as many seconds. William Hall,
a newcomer with a deep, pleasing voice,
gives a passable performance as the No. 2
he-man. Jean Dixon and Binnie Barnes
as the rival blondes give good support.
At Sydney Capitol.
“Make Way for a Lady.”
WIDOWER Herbert Marshall
SCHOOLGIRL DAUGHTER,
Anne Shirley
HER TEACHER .. Gertrude Michael
NOVELIST Margot Grahame
This pleasant little comedy, which has
dramatic interludes, is based on the
slenderest of plots, but the situations are
feasible, the comedy fresh and an effi-
cient interpretation and smooth direction
help it along.
A wealthy widower, a publisher, is de-
voted to his only child, a schoolgirl at
the romantic age. Overhearing some
gossiping mothers at a school fete dis-
cussing her father’s “lonely life,”
daughter resolves to find him a bride.
By a mistake she is led to believe he is
in love with an authoress whose best-
sellers he publishes, and whom he re-
gards as a pest, whereas he is attracted
to his daughter’s teacher, who recipro-
cates. The ensuing comedy complica-
tions are based on this misunderstand-
ing, which comes near to wrecking the
romance. It takes about an hour to
straighten things out to everyone’s satis-
faction.
Herbert Marshall as the rather be-
wildered parent depends mostly on eye-
brow-raising and side-glances to portray
his appreciation of the toils into which
his offspring innocently lands him; but
his perfectly modulated voice is a de-
light. Anne Shirley is charmingly natu-
ral, and Gertrude Michael and Margot
Grahame make good jobs of their re-
spective roles. At Sydney Capitol.
“Girl in a Million.”
CHAMPION ICE-SKATER,
Sonja Henee
PRETTY REPORTER .. Don Ameche
SKATER’S PAPA Jean Hersholt
REPORTER’S OFFSIDER, Ned Sparks
THEATRICAL MANAGER,
Adolphe Menjoit
A very slender story, the main events
of which are the heroine’s winning of the


Permit me to express my appreciation of
your famous Milk Arrowroot Biscuits;
they have been the sole food of our kiddie
until he was over his infant diet. At
three months baby only weighed lbs.
and there was no food that would agree
with him, so we tried your biscuits, and
baby has made wonderful progress ever
since, and they still constitute a big item
in his daily diet.
Yours faithfully,
(Signed) Mrs. J. H. UPTON.
mm
■
8
m
BBS
.
- ' '
BABY UPTON, aged 14 months, son of
Mr. and Mrs. J. H. Upton, 138 Hortham
Street, Casino, fed on Arnott’s Famous
Milk Arrowroot Biscuits from the age of
six months.
Messrs. William
Arnott Limited
have received
over 40,000 un-
solicited photo-
graphs with testi-
monials from
grateful mo hers
whose children
were reared
from the age of
six months on
Arnott’s Famous
Milk Arrowroot
Biscuits.
Always ask your Grocer
for Arnott's, and for con-
venience buy whole fins.
Olympic championship and her debut a
little later in an ice-ballet at Madison
Square Gardens, is used as a thread on
which to string a series of vaudeville
turns, including many delectable items
by. the Ritz Brothers and a comical
mouth-organ band. The star turn, of
course, is Sonja’s skating. She’s a placid,
well-built Nordic blonde with a knack of
saying a great deal in a very few words
and still more with no words whatever.
On the ice she is the last word in motion-
poetry. Menjou as a voluble, impulsive
entrepreneur, Jean Hersholt as a rug-
gedly honest Swiss innkeeper and Ned
Sparks as an emitter of cynical wise-
cracks help to make a picture out of the
medley. Romantic interest is supplied
by Mr. Ameche. Previewed at the Fox
Theatretfe, Sydney.
“Fair Warning.”
AMIABLE DETECTIVE,
J. E. Bromberg
GOIL Betty Furness
SWIMMING INSTRUCTOR,
John Howard Payne
HOTEL USEFUL Victor Killian
TERRIBLE CHILD .... Billy Burrud
Two murders, several attempts to
murder and a lost goldmine are in-
gredients of this thriller, the scene of
which is the Death Valley Hotel, a winter
resort in Arizona or somewhere desert-
ous. The guests are a most suspicious
lot, and the easygoing sleuth, who is
only a deputy-sheriff, better versed in
running his dry-goods store than in the
detection of crime, finds himself tangled
up with red-herrings across the trail at
every turn. But his small-boy assistant,
son of the hotel manager, is an avid
amateur photographer, and his efforts in
this direction help towards a solution of
the mystery.
Bromberg deserves credit for putting
on the screen a detective with no super-
natural powers—one who just depends
on perseverance and luck. The final
scene in a deserted mine needs more ex-
planation than is forthcoming, but the
blowing up of the dastardly murderer is
a spirited effort. J. H. Payne, a name-
sake of the man the Americans claim as
the composer of “Home, Sweet Home,'’
is a young man of remarkable physique
who does some very neat diving stunts.
Miss Furness causes continual trouble by
a habit of keeping midnight trysts with
mysterious individuals and getting
conked on the nut. Previewed at Fox
Theatrette, Sydney.
STAGE SHOWS.
Worths’ Circus.
It’s a few months short of its
sixtieth year, and the Wirths actively
concerned in its presentation are
mainly of the third and fourth gen-
eration of old John’s descendants,
but it runs along with the same brisk
efficiency. Wirths has been a feature
of Sydney Show Week for more decades
than anyone cares to remember, and now
that it is back under canvas it revives
more strongly pleasant memories in the
minds of the grey-headed. Current
show is as strong as ever in tigers,
elephants and horses. Its special attrac-
tions include some remarkable leaping
and somersaulting by Markoni, a young
man who can land in a tall barrel and
take off again without more than a slight
flex of the knes, and who makes nothing
of hurtling over a big sedan ; the Four
Kobes, Japanese who put effective new
frills on the balancing and juggling feats
their country has indulged in for a thou-
sand years ; the Ten Ziganies, who fly
through the air in all directions, landing
in armchairs after several somersaults ;
Henri Martel, who puts on a good per-
forming-dog turn; basket-ball on
bicycles, and, to wind up with, a be-
wildering sort of business in which a
motor-cyclist rapidly revolves a stage
on which acrobats, aided by centrifugal
force, assume all sorts of queer attitudes.
All as good as usual, but it’s a pity
they’ve scrapped the brass band in favor
of a loudspeaker horn and gramophone
records.
•i*
“Elijah” at Melbourne.
With the suddenness of a flash of
lightning and a clap of thunder Frederic
Elijah Collier burst upon a packed house
of oratorio-lovers at Melbourne Town
Hall on Good Friday. Although con-
tralto Essie Ackland was with him on
the platform and sang the lines of the
Angel and Queen Jezebel sweetly and
dramatically, it was the bass-voiced
prophet who had to carry the heat and
burden of Mendelssohn’s oratorio.
Whether he was plaintively appealing
for mercy, scorning the false prophets,
cursing the Israelites, starting a drought
or stopping it, the veteran singer was
equal to the demands the composer put
upon him —or nearly equal, for he gave
so much of himself to the prophet’s years
of struggle that his final shout of triumph
nearly stumbled into silence ; but that
was the only blemish in an outstanding
performance.
Miss Ackland was exceedingly effective
in the gentle phrases of “O Rest in the
Lord,” and, although they are more
familiar with other types of vocalism,
soprano Stella Power and tenor Brown-
ing Mummery provided vivid contrasts
to the dark masses of the choruses. The
Philharmonic men and ladies, in conjunc-
tion with the A.B.C. orchestra under
Bernard Heinze’s direction, did well in
some places and not so well in others,
but the ensemble has never been better,
and the double quartet and trio were
like brilliant studies in technique in a
gallery of important pictures. Carrie
Cairnduff had to wait a long time on
the platform for the customary entrance
of the youth who confirms the prophet’s
weather forecast, but she announced it
with telling clearness. Frederick Earle
was at the organ, David Sisserman pro-
vided the ’cello obbligato, and Edouard
Lambert received an ovation for his
leadership of the orchestra. The applause
at the finish must have run a good second
to the demonstration at the first per-
formance of the opus in 1846 at Birming-
ham.
4* 4* »I-
Yet Another G. and S. Season.
“The Gondoliers” has returned to
Melbourne Majesty’s with a few changes
in cast. Leo Darnton, who could have
been a golf champ, if he hadn’t preferred
the stage, is seen after a long absence
as Marco. His acting is aggressively
hearty, but he atones with his warmth of
feeling and delicate pianissimos in “Take
a Pair of Sparkling Eyes.” Strella Wilson
is another newcomer, and a welcome one,
as Casilda. Gregory Stroud played
Giuseppe. His singing in patter songs
(his diction is excellent) is better than his
acting. It is basso Richard Watson, cast
as the Grand Inquisitor, who retains
honors in this sphere, and as his resonant
voice is reliable and effortless he’s an
invaluable member of the co. The only
criticism that can be levelled against
contralto Evelyn Hall as the Duchess is
for a make-up which makes her look like
the granddaughter of Duke Ivan Menzies
instead of his mature wife. Menzies, as
agile as ever, performed frisky antics
throughout “I Am a Courtier Grave and
Gay” which earned the gavotte half-a-
dozen encores. As Gianetta and Tessa
Helen Langton and Eileen Kelly appeared
to have colds, or they may have been
suffering from fatigue, for they forced
their voices and made rather heavy
weather of being coy.
*l* •;*
An Adelaide Rep. Effort.
‘Heat Wave,” Adelaide Repertory’s
latest show, was produced in one, and
the players' mess-jackets were envied by
starched shirts in the audience. The
play is effective theatre, but no more.
Roland Pertwee, though a veteran actor
and author, has adapted a story obviously
very feminine in origin. Dawltry, the
hero, is a bitter-tongued reprobate,
shunned by all the men, especially
March, fascinating to all the women,
and with a mocking devotion to his
enemy’s wife. March’s minx of a young
sister visits Dawltry’s bungalow to vamp
him ; her sister-in-law rushes to “rescue”
her which, as he cynically assures them
both, was quite unnecessary. March
finds his wife there, and shoots Dawltry.
So the indignant wife leaves her hus-
band, for not “trusting” her; but when
Dawltry turns up unharmed, and goes in
pursuit of her at curtain-fall, the story
has become farcical.
This light stuff, plus a few moments
of thrill, was well put over by Arthur
Fay as hero, Stephen Church (husband),
Florence Brown (wife) and a bright
young new recruit, Linda Deßenzy.
Production by Nave and Riley jointly.
•I* * »2*
Haydn at the Show.
The £BO,OOO Burma pavilion trans-
planted from Wembley, one of the land-
marks of Sydney’s R. A.S. grounds,
housed on Good Friday afternoon 200
Sydney Phil, vocalists and instrumental-
ists and a goodly crowd of listeners.
Occasion was a performance of “The
Creation,” a very appropriate work to
stage in the midst of a rich State’s har-
vest festival. Howard Carr’s baton con-
trolled the proceedings. The choruses
were a bit woolly and the orchestra was
not always sure about the effects it was
trying to produce, but the strength and
charm of Haydn’s long-loved work lie
more in the solo arias, of which Lillian
Wilson, Lance Jeffree and Walter Kings-
ley gave very good readings. The tenor
aria “In Native Worth” was especially
impressive.


Bartz—-Salts of the Earth
Drugs are only a temporary relief, but BARTZ,
the IMPROVED MINERAL SPRING TONIC
SALTS, is Nature’s own remedy for excessive
fat, headache, rheumatic pains, sleeplessness,
giddiness, high blood pressure, constipation, etc!
Obtainable all Chemists and Stores, price 6d.,
1/- and 2/-. Sole distributors,
British Colonial & Eastern Chemicals, Ltd.,
66-69 York Street, Sydney. ’Phone: 8W6661.
Corns Sentenced to Death.
Corns have worried you—now worry them:
although “worry” is hardly the word, for
A’CORN SILK does not trifle with corns, but
ruthlessly kills them. How com!oitable your
feet feel a‘.er A’CORN SILK has removed
all your soft or hard corns—a 6d. packet will
do this for you without pain or inconvenience.
Corns are killed while you sleep—a matter of
a few hours. Chemists sell A’CORN SILK at
6d per packet. Packed by Felton, Grimwade
'Mid Duerdins, Ltd., Melbourne.
SINCE
1834
PETTVS Hotel
"More than a Famous Hotel . . . It Is a Delightful Home"
For 102 years, Petty's Hotel has given service to guests. Even to-day
this fine old hotel is still renowned for its service; its comfort; and its
conveniently central position.
See the new private dining room and lounge.
Tariff, room and breakfast from 11/6, inclusive from 18/-.
(I) E. YOUNGS, Manager.
sadf
WILCOX SMITH & CO
Postage Stamp Merchant*
Liverpool Street
Dunedin, N.Z.
1C Page Buying and
Selling List Free-
Established 49
Bankers: The Cnion-
Criticism
and
S*
S l°
Placement
Information.
METROPOUTAN SCHOOL-
C. Oil'lle.v St.. Sydiic.r. OF JOURNALISM
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
This year’s Easter egg hatched a bit
early to turn the A.J.C. meeting at Rand-
wick into an autumn dress parade.
Things were a mixed grill as far as dress-
ing went, and she looked best whose
attire was by Commonsense out of
High Temperature. Of course nothing
can divorce a woman from a new hat,
and even though some of the punters
went silk-frocked they gave an airing to
their new velours, pointed of crown and
brimless. Effect best forgotten. New
furs, too, would not be denied, and Arctic
and other foxes panted. Gold baubles,
in the form of miniature cymbals, buttons
and cord, flashed discreetly at the neck-
line and waist of those new woollen
frocks that did blaze the trail for autumn
wear. Green and that tone of sapphire
which is now called coronation blue were
recurring colors. The McKelvey lady,
distinctive in black, wore velvet leg-o’-
mutton sleeves in her trimly-tailored
frock.
Skirts were shorter than England inter-
prets them, but the legs and feet of
Sydney can stand up to this. Many hem-
lines showed a debonair swing owing to
the return of the flare. Joyce Carpen-
ter’s plaid taffeta in deep blue and mist
blue was an example. Her black Baku
hat was straight of brim. Lieutenant-
Governor Philip Street and his wife
brought a party that dressed the v.-r.
benches handsomely, and gave a tea
party as well as a luncheon. Lord
Gowrie also was a tea host. The
Lieutenant-Governor’s lady had the neck-
line of her black frock outlined in gold
sequins. Two faintly-lilac feathers
brightened her black toque. The C.J.
Jordans were among the vice-regals ; so
were Colonel Tom Rutledge and his wife
and the lan Manns (she’s a niece of the
Acting-Governor’s wife), who are over
from Melbourne.
Never has sky been bluer, dahlias more
brilliant, nor the faces of the ever-stirring
thousands happier. Anne Gordon smiled
from the deeps of a chrysanthemum-
brown hat with a sharp upturn to the
edge of its brim ; a woman just back
from her travels murmured that it was a
wide version of New York’s bambino hat.
Anne’s companion was Mrs. Cuthbert
Sheldon, her silk frock still gay with
summer, her hat wide and black. A dash
of gold gave an alert look to Philippa
Stephen’s black attire; and debutante
Dulce McWhannell, pretty and fair,
fastened sapphire-blue crepes with three
twinkling stars. A deep delphinium blue
was Mrs. H. C. Mclntyre’s suit.
Jocelyn Poynter brought sister Shirley,
another of the week’s social fledglings.
Shirley’s suit, made with a long, fitting
and somewhat flared coat, was of
mignonette green, as was her upturned
beret. Jocelyn’s color-scheme was grape
blue. Mrs. Alan Potter’s fairness con-
trasted with green; sables and palm
green showed Mrs. Ellis Feilding Jones
at her best. Blue and grey threw Mrs.
Herbert Douglass’s fair looks into relief ;
her gloves, bag and shoes were of deep
blue, her toque of grey brushed wool was
bound with a matching ribbon. Betty
Tilley, just back after months of travel,
had bright Rumanian embroideries on
her white crepe frock. Her hat, too, was
unusual —wide-brimmed, of white linen,
stiff with starch, and with a coolie crown.
This Letter liked the diamond brooch
that stabbed the front of Mrs. Reg Staf-
ford’s black velour hat, and her silver-
fox furs merited a second glance. Midge
Nelson, up from Austinmer, wore a suit
of the softest angora in a true South
Coast wave-blue. Esmey Burfitt and
sister-in-law-to-be Mary Gilmore punted
together. Mrs. A. H. Whittingham, from
Brisbane, wore a tucked frock and a
black velvet hat. Florentine purples and
blues were woven in Mrs. Hal Capper’s
scarf. Joyce Beazley’s small blue pointed
headpiece had a cascade of blue chiffon
at the right side. Muriel Cobcroft’s dark-
blue frock showed touches of the fashion-
able embroidery, and her blue-velvet
toque dripped a bow over her left eye.
Mrs. Lionel Dare’s black felt had a pos-
tillion crown. Mrs. Reg Moses went
patterned in petunia tones. Jennifer
Maughan was a pretty girl. McPhil-
lamys, Falkiners, Mackellars, Osbornes,
Allens, the Jim Lowrys of Hawke’s Bay,
Maoriland, and Mrs. Alan McGregor in
black moire were all at the horseshoe
party.
Pat Collins, one of Neutral Bay’s
prettiest girls, married Jacques Fourlinnie
on Easter Saturday. Pat, in a mist-blue
suit of very fine angora and an off-the-
face toque that showed its French origin,
gave the right responses at St. Mary’s,
and then the little company of relations
at the Cathedral returned to the bride’s
home at Neutral Bay. Here about 80
friends, French and Australian, passed
between the tricolor and our own starry
flag to the porch, where they were re-
ceived by Mrs. Collins and the smiling
Jacques Fourlinnie pair. Sister Betty, in
a frock of deep tangerine crepe, and best
man Rene Deschamps helped entertain.
Among the guests were the Michel Dou-
cets (until a few weeks ago she was
Jeanne Suzor).
Mrs. Tom Kelly, down from Minto,
was a rider at the R.A.S. Her husband
is a pillar of the Campbelltown Agricul-
tural Society, and his farm is one of the
model ones of the district. Parents-in-
law the Bertie Kellys are very proud of
Mrs. Tom’s horsemanship. Photograph
from Monte Luke.
George Falkiner, of Haddon Rig,
Warren, got in early with his contribu-
tion to the Easter gaieties by dating his
ball for last Wednesday. Over 200 came
to prance and, in the intervals, pant.
Elizabeth Bay House was the setting, the
guests of honor Mrs. Eric Nelson and
Mrs. James Lowry, of Hawke’s Bay,
Maoriland. The decorations were of the
true Harvest Home variety fruit and
flower mingling in a lavish composition
to which the poet Herrick might have
done justice. The oranges, plums, melons,
grapes and chillies massed on a revolving
stand on the sideboard looked like prize
exhibits from the Royal Agricultural
Show. The water-lilies and the dahlias
fiery with autumn were sheer beauty.
White and silver occurred over and
over again in the frocking. Heavy white
crepe patterned in silver was worn by
Mrs. Nelson, daisy-white net by Anne
Gordon ; Molly Street’s ivory crepes had
a classic cut. Mrs. Lowry’s frock held
the purple of asters and was threaded
with silver. Very attractive was Mrs.
Sam Hordern, all grey satin, finished off
with blue daisies in her hair.
Midway through last week there was
a friendly tea-drinking in the drawing-
room of the Carlton. Sixty women who
have been closely associated with Mrs.
A. V. Roberts during her years as organ-
ising secretary for the Industrial Blind
Institute came together to voice their
admiration. Mrs. Roberts has recently
resigned from her office, and there were
souvenirs of flowers and gifts to accom-
pany a speech. At Mrs. Roberts’s place
were long-stemmed pink roses, a cello-
phane box of frangipanni and a monster
Easter egg, its green wrapping all gold-
starred.
Four young men were hosts of a
dinner-dance at Victoria Barracks, and
the twenty-two invited danced till two in
the morning. The menus were printed in
Urdu (the Hindu language that is always
cropping up in the crossword puzzles)
and were translated by Lieut. Charles
Spry, one of the hosts, just returned from
service in India. The table was dignified
with the mess silver and brave with six-
inch-wide ribbons in red and blue laid
flat on the table. Red roses and gladioli
and blue delphiniums were the flower
arrangements. Lieutenants Leo Cook,
Michael Hunt and Ronald McKenzie
were the other three hosts.
_~,,, , j. ,
Barbara Burfitt, second daughter of the
Dr. Walter Burfitts, of Elizabeth Bay, is
further building up the medical tradition
of the family. Now in third year medi-
cine, Barbara is one of the budding pro-
fessional girls of Sancta Sophia within
the University. She is helping with the
fete in aid of the University Settlement
on April 10. Dorothy Welding photo-
graph.
The Fellowship of Australian Writers’
dinner to congratulate Dame Mary Gil-
more brought an enthusiastic company
to Spindles’, in Pitt-street. William
Morris Hughes, the day having been heavy
and hot almost beyond endurance, was
unable to come, but sent a written mes-
sage full of admiration and affection.
After president Dalby Davison’s intro-
ductory words Australia’s first Labor
Prime Minister, J. C. Watson, Dame
Constance D’Arcy, Dr. Charlie Bean,
Nora Kelly and Inglis Moore spoke,
each on a different facet of Dame Mary’s
activities. Mrs. Bean sat at the top table,
her frock a gaily-flowered crepe. Tulips
bloomed on Marjorie Quinn’s chiffons,
Dulcie Deamer was in backless ivory
satin.
From the exquisite man-about-town
robot at the gate talking of perfume and
silk stockings to a little domestic inter-
lude with the sow but newly the mother
of seven (or was it eight?) this Letter
found the Show all it’s cracked up to be.
Inside the gates the noise, the excitement
and the activity turned the rumbling and
roaring of George- and Pitt-street into
pallid memories. There was the bright-
ness of shining new pennies about the
girls attending chewing gum and choco-
late stalls, and there were ladies who
made you feel that life would be empty
without a stick from which dangled a
red-and-gold birdcage wherein two tur-
quoise-and-ivory birds swung side by
side, such as the young bloods used to
carry out for an airing as the sun went
down in old Pekin.
There was a lady who whispered lur-
ingly about “fortunes,” and an almost
irresistible man who offered feathered
darts by the throwing of which, if you
didn’t pierce a large box, you were given
a small box of chocolate. One of those
things where you couldn’t possibly lose.
By way of these and the tallest lady in
the world and the smallest man (they
were next-door neighbors), the man who
could lift 1301 b. (or was it cwt.?) on his
eyelids, and the haunted graveyard, you
came to the enormous grey and (in its
back view) prison-like new stand, and
so to the ringside. By this time the blood
was up, and just ready for the arrival of
the Governor-General and the majestic
entry of the peerage of the pastures.
Right in front of the grandstand was
the glittering display of silver trophies.
These were on a raised dais awninged
over pavilionwise in red and white —with
policemen on guard! But for that it
might have been an easy matter to pinch
one of the cups. It would have been fun
to have one for the top of the dresser in
the flat, and when your visitors looked
surprised to say nonchalantly, “Oh, yes,
Aberdeen Angus! Just one of my
window-box hobbies!” Anyway, it’s to
be hoped the R.S.P.C.A. see that our
dumb friends get their due, and have their
bran mash served to them out of the
silver cups they have won.
The rich scents of fruits and cheese
and hams and bacon were wafted
through the doors of the hall of agricul-
ture. The whole combined in not so
much a Holy Week smell as in an ol-
factory gloria to Easter. Of all the show,
this is the Hall of Enchantment. Here
are the reds and greens and golds of the
soil, displayed by hands that are not only
loving but learned. Any artist might be
proud of an arrangement of green
melons; the centre was so dark it shone
like black marble and, spreading out,
gradually lightened in tone till the ones
on the edge were almost a pale-jade.
Grapes, firm-fleshed, black, green and
that lovely cornelian shade, had for
neighbors pyramids of apples unbeliev-
ably red and green. One exhibitor of
imagination topped his with a small
apple-tree. Wheat and wine, wool and
cotton. Tropic fruits, cold-country fruits,
poems in carrots and cabbage. They
were all there—O happy land!
The sun burned down on the guard of
honor from the Ist Heavy Brigade, Royal
Australian Artillery, picking out the blue-
and-red uniforms and white helmets as
the men awaited the arrival of the Gov-
ernor-General. The band, too, never fal-
tered ; not even the man who wears the
leopard-skin across his shoulders, though
how he bore that under the hot afternoon
sun is a problem the answer to which
could only be computed in glasses of iced
milk.
Suddenly into the picture swept an
escort of lancers, their red-and-white
pennants brave in the sunshine. The
Governor-General had arrived to open
the Show, which was already a sturdy Aus-
tralian nearly three days old. Down on
the green sward to receive him were the
society’s president, Sam Hordern, the
Lieutenant-Governor and his lady, Dr.
Earle Page, Mayor Howie (himself an
exhibitor and prizewinner), Mayoress
Parkes and many others who formed
a more or less impressive procession to
the dais.
The social excitement of the Show
opening rages between the members’ and
the council stands. In the group that
accompanied the G.-G. from the trophy-
giving to the tea party were the Philip
Streets, her outfit neatly patterned in
dark blues and white. Sam Hordern’s
lady, who was the afternoon’s hostess,
wore two flat pique daisies on the navy
hat which matched the blue in her en-
semble. There’s nothing but commenda-
tion for the navy-blue silk frock, closely
patterned in white, which Mrs. Winter
Irving, of Melbourne, added to the group.
Mrs. G. Stening’s white Arctic fox hung
in listless loveliness over one shoulder
of her black frock. The Earle Pages
were there with daughter Mrs. W. B.
Tart, who was radiant in two tones of
blue. The Tony Horderns were among
officialdom, Mrs. Tony one of the
smartest in beige moire, one of the latest
of black-velvet toques, and silver fox on
which the moth had never even breathed.
Add aides Captain Lassen, Captain
Blacker, the Earl of Ranfurly and Cap-
tain Bracegirdle; also girls in riding
k’ - t fan-ions them Mary Hordern and
Mrs. Tom Kelly).


m
m
mm :
§■■■
THE IDEAL HOLIDAY
N O HOLIDAY offers so much entertainment at so small a cost as a
& O- Cruise. Days and nights at sea, in which the pastimes and
repose of a holiday voyage in a great modem liner are happily blended,
may be fully enjoyed. Cruise fares are free of exchange.
TO RABAUL
R.M.S, Strathnaver leaves Sydney June 25
First Saloon and Tourist Class:
Fares front 20 and 13 guineas respectively.
TO NEW ZEALAND
R.M.S. Strathmore leaves Sydney Nov. 12
First Saloon and Tourist Class:
Fares from 20 and 13 guineas respectively.
TO FIJI
R.M.S. Strathaird leaves Sydney Aug. 20
First Saloon and Tourist Class:
Fares from 20 and 13 guineas respectively.
TO NEW ZEALAND
R.M.S. Strathaird leaves Sydney Dec. 10
First Saloon and Tourist Class:
Fares from 20 and 13 guineas respectively.
TO NOUMEA
R.M.S. Mooltan leaves Sydney Dec. 24.
First Saloon and Tourist Class:
Fares from 20 and 13 guineas respectively •
All particulars from the P. & O. Company's Agents.
P&O
AS UR E CRUI


Australian Visitors to London
are invited to make
FREE USE OF THE READING AND
WRITING ROOMS AT
THE BULLETIN OFFICE,
1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London, E.C.4,
and to have their correspondence addressed there.
“The Bulletin’s"
London manager, Mr.
W. T. Albert, late of
the Sydney and Mel-
bourne offices, will
render every possible
service.
Make The Bulletin
Office your meeting
place—it will be just
like home again.
Melbourne
Chatter
In Melbourne it is said that there
was not a spare bed to be had in Sydney
for Easter. There were plenty here, for
our Easters are as quiet as Sydney’s are
crowded. Last week-end everybody who
could went away ; the rest sat at home
and read books, went swimming on the
first two warm days or took doses of
homoeopathic gaiety at the Williamstown
races or the Gilbert and Sullivan revival.
Among passengers leaving this week
for the U.S.A. in the Mariposa is Group-
Captain Harrison, Director of Aero-
nautical Inspection, whose trip is in
connection with the establishment of
large-scale aeroplane manufacture in
Australia. Group-Captain Harrison is
called by some the founder of the Aus-
tralian Air Force. In 1911 he went to
England to learn to fly, got a job with
the British Aeroplane Co., and was sent
to Spain and Germany to demonstrate
machines and teach flying to men who
proved to be the forerunners of the
Spanish and German Air Forces. He
returned to Australia in a similar capacity
and trained 170 pilots with only one
casualty—a pretty good record, consider-
ing the primitive ’planes of the day, some
of which he and his two mechanics
brought out from England. Others were
made here, including their engines, even
to the magnetos. Last August Group-
Captain Harrison, who is known in and
out of the Air Force as “Rick,” cele-
brated two anniversaries 50 years of
age and 25 years a pilot.
Mrs. Harrison sent her husband away
—he had only a week’s notice of his trip
—with the smallest amount of luggage
he has ever travelled with. The depletion
was caused by burglars who broke into
The Cottage at Brighton recently and
made off with all Rick’s clothes except
his uniforms, field boots and “tails.” The
raiders even had the refrigerator un-
plugged and pushed down the passage
when the noise of the family’s arriving
home disturbed them.
The district of Metcalfe, which knows
and approves of Bill Murdoch, studied
his bride, Bell Lawson, of Castlemaine,
decided that she also came up to scratch,
and accordingly put on the great honor
of a “tin-kettling” welcome. One moon-
lit night 50 cars surrounded the Murdoch
homestead, all horns blared at once, the
passengers leapt out blowing whistles,
beating kerosene-tins, waking up all the
astonished poultry and cattle, starting the
dogs barking, and almost dinning the
house down. Bill and Bell, having re-
ceived a hint of the impending ceremony,
were armed with a “niner,” after the
consumption of which the visitors invited
them to the school hall for a round of
old-fashioned songs, the presentation of
a silver salver for a wedding present,
comic speeches and strenuous dances that
went round and round. It was a great
night and everybody had a grand time.
Miss A. Quayle, who sailed off in the
Esquilino on Saturday, has no ordinary
tourist trip ahead of her. Perhaps she
has even some adventures, for she will
disembark at Port Said and travel over-
land to Jerusalem for a visit to the Fred
Salmons (Mrs. Salmon was Dorothy
Hoysted, of Melbourne). Later she will
study the schedules of small, unimportant
steamers, for she hopes to have a look
at Greece, Rhodes and Cyprus. Her
journey back to her home-town, Auck-
land (M.L.), will be by way of England
and the U.S.A. Miss Quayle speaks
fluent French, has been taking lessons in
Italian, and is not nervous about losing
herself or her luggage.
The Theo Handfields are back at
Sandringham after a three-months fishing,
swimming, golfing and lying-in-the-sun
holiday at Airey’s Inlet. They have, of
course, fished before, but have always
made do with a sugarbag and have never
owned a professional fish-basket. Before
they left Melbourne Theo, being in an
optimistic frame of mind, went to buy
one. “A fish-6asket? Yes, sir,” said the
salesman. “What size—two-bottle, four-
bottle or six-bottle?” Theo bought the
sixer, and as it now smells of fish his
friends believe him.
A progressive move has been made by
the Kindergarten Union in inviting Miss
C. Heinig to act for one year as prin-
cipal of the Kindergarten College. Miss
Heinig, who has leave of absence from
the Teachers’ College, Columbia, U.S.A.,
has specialised in child study. She has
worked with the nursery-school move-
ment from the days when it consisted
of a play creche where the youngsters
were regulated by “dos” and “don’ts”
and occasional smacks to the present
time, when small citizens are put through
a scientific curriculum.
Pictured here by Jack Cato is Jean
Ince, one of the two organising secre-
taries for the Graduation Ball at the
Palais on Friday, April 9. It’s to wind
up Commencement Week. The commit-
tee has borrowed a pictorial idea from
Edinburgh, where the newly-fledged
grads, wear their hoods at the Com-
mencement Ball, on the programme of
which there is at least one dance for
them alone. Melbourne students are not
depending entirely on their persuasive
powers about the hoods, but are offering
reduced prices for tickets to the gradu-
ates who appear in all such glory at the
ball. Most hoods are, of course, hired
from the “boxroom,” and special hirage
rates will operate so that they may be
taken out the night of the ball and worn
again next afternoon for the conferring
of degrees.
Dorothy Coverlid, of the Uni., has
absorbed a lot of interesting informa-
tion during her year’s leave of absence,
most of which she spent in Germany.
She says that Hitler’s direct taxation is
a burden which the people seem to carry
cheerfully, and even his many indirect
taxations (button days, from which no
one is immune, pound days, when every
housewife must give to the winter re-
lief a pound of some named commodity,
and so forth) do not seem to cause an-
noyance. Miss Coverlid was in Munich
when she first heard word of Edward
VIII.’s abdication. She didn’t believe
the startling news, but the small son of
the house where she was staying replied
that it was in the paper—“and everything
printed in our papers is always true.”
Towards the end of her visit came
Hitler’s proclamation in defence of
artists, “as there had been no improve-
ment in newspaper art criticisms during
1936.” He ordered that henceforward
criticisms of the fine arts must be abol-
ished in favor of reports or indicative
reviews, and that the journalists who
write them must prove that they have
been educated in and understand their
subjects. All reviews must be signed in full,
and the writers must have their names
and their qualifications registered. Hitler
decrees that the critic of to-day must
approach his subject with “an open mind
and a pure heart.” He may no longer
show off his vocabulary with flowery and
incomprehensible language, nor may be
praise or damn with aggressive arro-
gance.
Guelda and Mollie Pyke are remaining
in London for the Coronation. Guelda’s
clever hands and original ideas have
been of great use in supplementing her
income in Melbourne and in an Austrian
shop off Bond-street. She fashions
flowers and other dress accessories of felt,
wax, wood and leather. Chains and nails
from the ironmongery departments have
been useful material for her belts, and
her friends and the people who sit oppo-
site her in trams and buses have pro-
vided numerous ideas for her unusual
. caricature masks. Recently a buyer
from Harrods’ saw Guelda’s work, with
the result that his firm has offered to
buy everything she makes.
The David Robertson couple, with
their daughter Mrs. Laing-Hav and Sister
Duigan, are leaving for abroad on April
13. Mr. Robertson has been very ill
for over a year, and will go into a nurs-
ing home as soon as he reaches London,
but the fact that he is able to travel at
all is good news to his family and friends.
Mrs. Laing-Hay is an experienced air
traveller between London, Paris and the
South of France. Her mother has never
been up in a ’plane, but has been in a
balloon, many years ago in Hamburg,
when she went for a flight in the wobbly,
windy carriage of a gas-filled monster.
It was supposed to land in the Botanical
Gardens, but caused pilot and passengers
some concern by taking the bit in its
and at last coming to earth in the
Zoo.
A promising musical career is ahead
of Shirley Paton, who won the 1936
overseas scholarship of London’s Trinity
College of Music, which entitles her to
free tuition for three years at the college,
plus a maintenance grant. This is. the
second occasion on which this particular
scholarship has come to Australia; the
first was, in 1935, awarded to June Ep-
stein, of Perth. Shirley, who is 17, leaves
for London in June in the care of her
teacher, Dorothy Gleadall, and is plan-
ning to study both piano and flute. She
was educated at Ormiston Ladies’ College
and is a daughter of the W. S. Patons, of
Mitcham; both her parents, and their
parents before them, were musicians of
more than average talent. Broothorn
portrait.
“The Gondoliers” proved popular with
small boys and girls in the audience
being educated along the lines that their
parents experienced in their youth. An
attractive pair of sisters in the circle were
Mrs. Tom Paterson, in a gumtip-green
velvet cloak, and Mary Kingsford-Smith
in black, silver foxes and frangipanni.
An engaged pair snatching the chance
of seeing something of each other during
the holidays were Lesley Gordon and
Keith Waller (he is down from Canberra).
Another Federal Capital visitor present
in the same party was Theo Matthews.
Others were Boyd Ferguson, Catherine
Gordon, who will receive her Arts de-
gree at the coming graduation ceremony,
and Dr. Peggy Mackay, who speaks well
of her new job as one of the two women
residents at the Adelaide General Hos-
pital. In the stalls were the Harold
Kerrs; E. J. Gravestock, making the
best of his recuperating broken leg and
a pair of short crutch-sticks attached to
his wrists ; Mrs. Harry Emmerton ; the
Gengoult Smiths and the Phil Jacobs
couple, who were accompanied by their
daughter from New Guinea, Mrs. Capie-
Thomson.
Among passengers in the Orontes,
which was packed with official and other
Coronation travellers, was the first
woman courier to leave Australia in the
employment of Thomas Cook and Son.
She is Mrs. Dorothy Dare, younger
daughter of the I. H. Moss couple. Her
party numbers a score of sightseers and
their itinerary covers the Riviera, Italy,
Heidelberg, Cologne, Amsterdam, Brus-
sels, Paris and London by May 10. The
party has seats booked in a covered stand
for the Coronation procession. Towards
the end of May it will leave on a 20-
days’ motor tour of England, Scotland
and Wales.
This is a lucky year for Sybil Porter,
whose yet unpublished “Emu-Intitjuma ’
was awarded first prize in the brief-story
section of The Bulletin’s story com-
petition. Sybil is young and attractive,
was educated at Ascham, in Sydney, has
had some secretarial experience and, so
far, is better known as an actress than
a writer. From musical comedy she
graduated to drama, doing particularly
well with her sympathetic interpretation
of Anne of Bohemia in Gregan
McMahon’s two seasons of “Richard of
Bordeaux.” Recently she heard about
a job as a temporary ladies’ maid, had
her interview and was chosen among 150
applicants. Mrs. P. I. Levett required
the maid, but on securing Sybil liked
her so much that she turned her into a
companion and has taken her abroad in
the Strathnaver.
Romance blossomed out of profes-
sional interest for a couple of medicoes,
Dr. Dorothy Gepp and Dr. Alex. Sin-
clair, who were married recently at
Trinity College Chapel against a conven-
tional background, the bride in white
lace and tulle veil and carrying a shower
spray of orchids and tulips, and the two
’maids, Kathleen Gepp and Dr. Sheila
Peters, in shrimp-pink moire with little
tulle caps and bouquets of begonias.
Before she started medicine Dr. Gepp
did a science course sprinkled with
honors in every year. Dr. Sinclair has
recently been attached to the Australian
Inland Mission, with Cloncurry as his
headquarters. The honeymoon is a jour-
ney overseas in the Port Sydney, at the
end of which the bride and ’groom plan
to do medical research in London.
For bachelor-girl, flats, where the
owner gets home with several parcels of
food and no spare hands for flowers,
autumn berries are providing useful
splashes of decoration. Even if the ber-
ries cannot be. procured on generous
long stems they look effective piled to-
gether on dishes like fruit. To name a
few there are bright russet crab-apples,
hawthorn berries, bunches of acorns and
horse chestnuts, which come like polished
mahogony out of their protective green
skins. After picking, the berries retain
their fresh decorative appearance for
about a week.


Divorqe Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 358 of 1937.
BETWEEN GRACE ASHWOOD Petitioner
And FRANCIS WILLIAM ASHWOOD
Respondent.
TO FRANCIS WILLIAM ASHWOOD.
TAKE NOTICE that the said GRACE ASH-
WOOD has commenced a suit against you in
this Honorable Court and is applying for a
dissolution of marriage on the grounds of your
desertion for three years and upwards without
just cause or excuse AND TAKE NOTICE
that you are required to enter an appearance
to the said suit at the proper office of this
Honorable Court on or before the Sixteenth
day of June One thousand nine hundred and
thirty-seven and in the event of your not doing
so within the time limited or obtaining further
time the Petitioner will proceed and the suit
be heard and determined your absence notwith-
standing. A copy of the petition filed herein
may be had on application to the undersigned
free of charge.
DATED this Seventeenth day of March One
thousand nine hundred and thirty-seven. ’
For the Registrar,
(1.5.) E. L. DICKSON,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
N. W. CALDWELL, Solicitor for the Peti-
tioner, E., S. and A. Bank Building, King and
George Streets, Sydney.
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 747 of 1936.
BETWEEN ANNIE INSKIP Petitioner
And KENNITH CLAUDE INSKIP Re-
spondent.
TO KENNITH CLAUDE INSKIP late of
Dorrigo New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that your wife ANNIE
INSKIP has commenced a suit against you
in this Honorable Court and is applying for a
dissolution of your marriage on the grounds
that you have deserted her without just cause
or excuse AND TAKE NOTICE that you are
required to enter an appearance to the said
suit at the proper office of this Honorable
Court on or before the Sixteenth day of June
One thousand nine hundred and thirty-seven
AND in the event of your not doing so within
the time limited or obtaining further time, the
Petitioner will proceed and the suit be heard
and determined your absence notwithstanding.
A copy of the petition filed herein may be had
on application to the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this Twenty-second day of March,
1937.
For the Registrar,
(L.s.) C. A. H. HARMS,
Clerk in Divorce.
McINTYRE, CONLON & CO., Solicitors
for the Petitioner, 250 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 177 of 1937.
BETWEEN ANNIE MARGERY HIGHFIELD
(formerly Annie Margery Goodall) Peti-
tioner
And KEITH SAMUEL HIGHFIELD
Respondent.
TO KEITH SAMUEL HIGHFIELD late of
Sydney.
TAKE NOTICE that the said ANNIE MAR-
GERY HIGHFIELD (formerly Annie Margery
Goodall) has commenced a suit against you
in this Court and is applying for a dissolution
of marriage on the grounds of desertion for
three years and upwards without just cause
AND TAKE NOTICE that you are required to
enter an appearance to the said suit at the
proper office of this Court on or before the
Twenty-fourth day of June One thousand nine
hundred and thirty-seven and in the event of
your not doing so within the time limited or
obtaining further time the Petitioner will pro-
ceed and the suit will be heard and determined
your absence notwithstanding. A copy of the
petition filed herein may be had on applica-
tion to the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this Twenty-fifth day of March,
1937.
For the Registrar,
(1.5.) E. L. DICKSON,
Chief Clerk in Divorce. |
VILLENEUVE-SMITH & DAWES, Solici- j
tors for the Petitioner, 89 Pitt Street, Sydney. I
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 759 of 1933.
BETWEEN MABEL CONSTANCE GRIND-
ROD Petitioner
And ROSMAND EDMUND GRINDROD
Respondent.
TO ROSMAND EDMUND GRINDROD late
of Killara in the State of New South
TAKE NOTICE that a decree for restitution
of conjugal rights dated the Ninth day of
October One thousand nine hundred and thirty-
six has been made against you in a suit
wherein Mabel Constance Grindrod was the
Petitioner and you the said Rosmand Edmund
Grindrod were respondent requiring you within
twenty-one days from the service of the said
decree to take back or return home to the
Petitioner and render to her conjugal rights and
requiring you within four days after the expira-
tion of the said twenty-one days to file in the
registry of this Honorable Court a certificate
of compliance with the decree And further
take notice that by an order made on the
Eighteenth day of March One thousand nine
hundred and thirty-seven it was ordered that
substituted service of the said decree be made
by advertising in two weekly newspapers cir-
culating in Sydney And further take notice
that the consequence of your non-compliance
with the decree is that the Petitioner may at once
present a petition asking for a decree against
you for judicial separation or for dissolution
of your marriage And further take notice
that service is to be taken as complete on the
Twenty-fifth day of March One thousand nine
hundred and thirty-seven from which day the
twenty-one days in which you are to take back
or return to the Petitioner will commence to
run.
DATED this Twenty-third day of March,
One thousand nine hundred and thirty-seven.
For the Registrar,
(L.S.) E. L. DICKSON,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
AARON LEVINE, Solicitor for the Peti-
tioner, 9 Martin Place, Sydney.
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
“X.T.”: Queensland University has
instituted a course, in Russian. There are
already 1G students, and there are 2300
Russians in Australia for them to talk
to. But it seems to me that it would
be much more to the point to start classes
in Malay, Cantonese or the Kuan Ha
and Japanese. Except for the. Japanese,
these languages are so much easier, and
Malaya, China and Japan are next-door
neighbors.
* * * *
“Nothung”: One of the best-known
North Queensland stud properties, Bluff
Downs, has recently changed hands (ex-
cluding the stud station Toomba). Now
running about 20,000 head of Shorthorn
and Devon cattle, Bluff Downs was
originally taken up by pioneer Hanns
in the early ’seventies, and then taken
over by W. D. White and sons Ernest
and Albert. E. E. D. White —grandson
of W.D. —held it for many years. Bull-
breeding was entered on about 1903,
bulls being imported from England and
one lot from U.S.A., and about 200 stud
bulls have been sold annually. In both
studs and herds the cattle were culled
severely and bred to type. The station
also owned a highly-prized horse stud,
breeding Clydesdales and Suffolks, and
of late Percherons were introduced. At
Charters Towers stock sales Bluff Downs
progeny always commanded top prices.
The sale is to William Angliss.
* * * #
“Dickie Beech”: Small boys who live
at Wynnum and the other bayside Bris-
bane suburbs are having the sporting
times of their bright young lives since
the floods brought down miles of water
hyacinth from the upper reaches of the
river. You wade out, armed with a
stick, and poke among the loose masses
until you locate a snake, water rat or
lizard half-doped after the long down-
river journey. Then you summon the
gang with piercing howls, and tear into
the enemy. If you get tired of the hunt,
you can do some gorgeous punting on
the biggest masses of weed with a pole.
Father is not quite so cheerful about it,
unless he is doing council relief work,
for the beastly stuff is piled over the
foreshores for miles, and when it rots
the gales of Araby won’t be a circum-
stance to it
* * * *
“Whaler”: Had “Bull-ant Bill,” who
calls Facing Island the world’s rummiest
sheep station (B. 10/3/’37), taken a trip
along the coast he would have found a
couple of dozen islands running sheep—
many of them with advantages denied
to Facing. Islands as sheep stations
were old before “Bill’s” grandparents
were out of swaddling clothes. Great
Britain has several examples ; islands in
Bass Strait breed mutton sheep as well
as mutton-birds; south from Townsville
to Rockhampton, along the N.Q. coast,-
about every second island with a house
on it is a sheep property. The sheep on
Facing may eat seaweed ; those on the
other islands I know always have
ample grass and herbage to keep ’em in
the pink.
“H.E.”: The death of William Mc-
Gregor, laird of Latheronwheel, left a
vacancy on the board of Castlemaine-
Perkins Brewery (Brisbane), which has
been filled by a no less picturesque figure
in M. J. Ryan, a pioneer of Central
Queensland. Ryan is one of the biggest
owners of stations in Australia, and he
deserves it, because he is one of the most
enterprising of graziers. He was about
the first man in Australia to put down
a bore more than a mile deep—on
Arcturus Downs (C.Q.), which he owns
along with Dalmore, Homebush and
other properties. He is an advisory
director of the Australian Estates Co.,
and a well-known racing man of 40
years’ standing.
* * * *
“Marama”: There is fine fun in Fiji
over the language question. In an early
day missionaries made an alphabet for
“Looks like somebody's bought the next block, Ma .”
Fijian, and, finding that certain conso-
nants were not in use and that certain
diphthongs happened in every second
word, they used the unwanted letters for
the consonants. Thus, when a Fijian
reads that Mr. Cakobau is going to the
Coronation, his phonetic mind hears the
major-domo at Buckingham Palace an-
nouncing Mr. Thakombau, and when he
notes Wagga Wagga on the map it im-
mediately becomes Wangga Wangga to
him, and he would lisp the name of Mr.
Casey as Mr. Thasey. Till recently the
official “Gazette” spelt in the old-
fashioned way; but, with the advent of
Mr. Theodore and civilisation, it de-
cided to adopt normal English. And
did the suggestion go with a “bag”—l
mean, in English, a “bang”? It did not.
All old-fashioned Fijians are up in arms
about it.
"Australia Jane's" Budget
Ruth Portrate gave a party for the
principals of the G. and S. opera co.,
and, with Godfrey Stirling, her colleague
for two years in the Carl Rosa co. in
England, did a whole act from “Caval-
leria Rusticana.” Ruth also cooked all
the nice things piled on the buffet supper-
table —a versatile lady.
The M. Christophersons have had
several parties, and there was a supper-
dance in their honor at the Belle Vue.
The same night Dr. and Mrs. Street en-
tertained 50 guests at dinner in honor
of daughter Helen, who goes to America
next month to wed her young man. The
table looked charming—pink roses and
pink place cards, and in front of Helen
a model of a Spanish galleon afloat on
a mirror sea. Helen was lovely in white
lace, and her mother in black.
Don Finlay, new Queensland manager
for the A.8.C., sent out invitations for
a tea at Lennon’s, at which the coming
celebrity concerts were discussed. Mrs.
Adrian Jose and Mrs. Tom Stephens
helped him to entertain, and Madeleine
Clark, who is doing the advance work
for the Essie Ackland season, told the
meeting all about the long list of im-
ported stars who shortly will blossom out
under the Broadcasting Commission’s
banner. But when front seats are 7s. 6d.
and empty pockets and a love for music
seem to go together, it might be a better
policy for the A.B.C. either to have fewer
concerts or to lessen the price of admis-
sion.
Dr. and Mrs. Edgar Falkiner, who left
Queensland seven years ago for Eng-
land, have arrived back on a visit.
They have a home in England, but have
been travelling hither and yon. On the
way to Australia they stayed for some
months with daughter May, who was
one of Toowoomba’s loveliest girls. She
married Captain Murray Ponsonby, of
the Indian Army, and lives at Bangalore.
Margaret Lord, who was married to
Noel Brown in the drawing-room of her
home, Biddenham, Augathella, on Easter
Saturday, was an alluring bride. Her
draperies were of ivory satin, and her
filmy tulle veil fell right to the edge
of the hem and was worn with a
coronet of orange-blossom. She car-
ried roses. Mrs. Kenneth Weatherell,
who was matron of honor, wore a
circlet of roses on her hair and
was frocked in white satin with a de-
lightful basqued jacket of the same
material. Three white-clad bridesmaids
followed. The newly-weds will live at
Nive Downs, Tambo.
Jessie Blair, matron of Coniston Hos-
pital, was married to O. E. Corlis, of
Warwick, on Easter Saturday. Jessie gave
a pre-tea to all her friends at Rowe’s,
and greeted the guests wearing white
georgette beaded in porcelain. On the
same day, another lass who shortly will
change her name, Hilda Hamilton, who
marries Max Hockey, of Abercorn, on
March 31, also entertained her girl-
friends at a final bachelor-girl tea.
Lorna Bryant, leaving for Europe on
April 6, has had several farewell parties.
Marion Byrne gave one for her. The
same day, at a near-by table, Ethel Eade
entertained for Ruth Boyd, leaving by
the Mariposa for a 12 months’ tour.
Sheila Wiley, who married Eric Har-
rison on March 23, had several pre-wed-
ding parties the week before her mar-
riage. Mrs. R. S. Lee was matron of
honor, and the wedding breakfast was
eaten at Rowe’s in a bower of pink and
red Radiance roses.
Marjorie Wonderiey and Mrs. J. O.
Frith, of Toowoomba, are off to Singa-
pore, then on to China and Japan. They
expect to be away for at least four
months.
Clarice Berry and Joyce White gave
Sybil Scott, who will be an April bride,
a thoroughly useful pre-wedding party.
Among other things, each guest brought
along a recipe, which was written into a
bound book and initialled by each donor.
The table was arranged to resemble a
tiny garden, and swans floated on mirror
lakes.
Aboard the Merkur, which arrived a
day or two before Easter, was Lady
Evelyn Drummond, en route to Maori-
land, where her husband is Commodore.
She had been back to England for a visit,
and spent some of the holiday fishing in
Ireland and Scotland. This is the first
time she has been in Australia, and she
fell in love with the Barrier.
Mrs. Percy Pease, back from America,
gathered up all the information she could
about social-service work in U.S.A. and
Canada, and came to the conclusion that
unemployed girls get a better spin in
Queensland than they do over the water.


Personal and Missing Friends.
TO JfcKxNcsl IAIE-JONES, formerly of Cnr.
Wingrove and Arthur Streets, Alphington,
in the State of Victoria, but now of parts
unknown, Labourer.
TAKE NOTICE that your wife, RUBY
CHRISTINA TATE-JONES, has instituted
proceedings against you for a divorce on the
ground of desertion during three years and up-
wards. UNLESS you enter an appearance in
the office of the Prothonotary in the Supreme
Court, Melbourne, on or before the Twenty-
third day of April, One thousand nine hun-
dred and thirty-seven, the case may proceed
in your absence and you may be ordered to
pay the costs. AND FURTHER TAKE
NOTICE that the sealed copy Petition and
copy Citation herein may be inspected at the
office of the Petitioner’s Solicitor. JOAN
ROSANOVE, 440 Chancery Lane, Melbourne,
Solicitor for the Petitioner.
ANYONE knowing the whereabouts of JOHN
HOLDSWORTH, farmer, age 65, of Toora,
Victoria, apply McCOMAS & CO., 450 Collins
Street, Melbourne, C.l. Reward £5.
Public Notice.
BANISH Loneliness by joining Betta Bright’s
Social Correspondence Bureau. Individual
attention —select clientele. Write or call. —
72 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Legal Notice.
THOMAS PETLEY, deceased (died at Sydney
on sth June, 1936).
PURSUANT to a Decretal Order of the
Supreme Court of New South Wales in its
Equitable Jurisdiction made 18th December,
1936, in a Suit (No. 1266 of 1936) intituled
“In the Matter of the Estate of Thomas
Petley, late of Sydney, in the State of New
South Wales, Nautical Instrument Manufac-
turer, deceased, Intestate, between The Perpetual
Trustee Company (Limited), Plaintiff, and Wil-
liam Edgar Petley, Frederick John Petley and
his Majesty’s Attorney-General for the State of
New South Wales, Defendants,” whereby the
following inquiries were directed, viz.: “Whether
the abovenamed Thomas Petley, deceased, left
any next-of-kin him surviving, and, if so, ( a )
who were the next-of-kin of the said Thomas
Petley, deceased, at the time of his death en-
titled to share in his estate upon his intestacy,
and in what shares and proportions respectively,
and (b) whether any of them have since died,
and, if so, who are their respective legal per-
sonal representatives.” Notice is hereby given
that all persons claiming to be entitled under
the said inquiries are to send by post prepaid
to The Perpetual Trustee Company (Limited),
33 Hunter Street, Sydney, Australia, so as to
reach it on or before 25th May, 1937, their
full Christian and surnames, addresses and de-
scriptions and full particulars of their claims,
or in default thereof they will be excluded
from the benefit of the said Decretal Order
unless the Court or a Judge thereof or the
Master in Equity, on application, otherwise
orders. Claimants are to attend personally or
by their Solicitor before the Master in Equity
at the Supreme Court, Elizabeth Street, Sydney,
on Tuesday, the Ist day of June, 1937, at eleven
o’clock in the forenoon, being the time
appointed for adjudicating upon the claims.
Any claimant not residing in New South Wales
must send with particulars of his claim the
name and address of a person in New South
Wales to whom Notices to the Claimant can
be sent.
DATED the 18th day of March, 1937.
OSBORNE M. ALLEN,
Solicitor for the Plaintiff,
56 Hunter Street, Sydney, Australia.
S he’s a sparkling
success now...
hk
13.
A
At one time people thought her dull
because she seldom smiled, but she’s
not afraid to smile now since someone
told her that powder polished teeth
to perfection. All dentifrices contain
some powder that’s what does
the cleaning, but Calvert’s is ALL
POWDER that’s why it makes your
teeth gleam and sparkle ALWAYS.
F. C. Calvert & Co., Ltd., England.
CALVERT’S
carboi 1 c TOOTH POWDER
Visit
THE AUSTRALIAN ART
EXHIBITION
The Macleod Gallery,
Bulletin Buildings, 252 George Street
(year Bridge Street).
Latest Pictures by leading Australian
Artists. Gallery now reopened after
renovations and rearrangement.
ADMISSION FREE.
Tel., 87971.
Adventure
In the Far North!
MOTOR TOURS
TO DARWIN AND
CENTRAL AUSTRALIA
These tours offer carefree and inter-
esting travel holidays in little-visited
country. New sights, aboriginals on
the “walkabout,” exotic lily lagoons,
the anthill country, brimming rivers,
mangroves, outpost settlements —all
these, and there’s a new thrill for
the sportsman in hunting crocodile
and wild buffalo.
These tours are conducted in luxur-
ious cars, specially built and radio-
equipped, and every detail is planned
for the comfort and safety of pat-
rons, The tours are open to both
ladies and gentlemen.
Tours range from 28 to 105 days,
and leave Melbourne May, June,
July and September. Tours may be
joined at any city visited en route.
©
Complete itineraries are listed
in the specially illustrated
folder. Write or call for your
copy to-day!
PIONEER
I T DU R I 5 T BUREAU
I * lAficU Jftotin Touaa.
SYDNEY - - 38 Martin Place. Tel. B 7648
MELBOURNE 241 Collins Street. Tel. Cent. 5775
BRISBANE - 206 Adelaide Street. Tel. B 6715
MACMILLAN’S
NEW BOOKS
The prices advertised are those
books are published in London,
the British Isles must be fixed by
bookseller
at which the
Prices outside
the importing
AFTERMATH,
A Supplement to
"The Golden Bough,”
By SIR JAMES G. FRAZER, O.M.
21s.
“This additional volume, containing such
important new matter, is invaluab’e—
Will no doubt find a place, as ii richly
deserves, in every public library of any
importance, as well as on the bookshelves
of many an ordinary home.”
—The “Scotsman.”
GONE WITH THE WIND,
By MARGARET MITCHELL.
(Colonial Library.)
900,000 copies sold in America and
England in six months.
“A grand book, full of life, excitement
and tough-fibred adventure.” — “Sphere.”
LORDS AND MASTERS,
By A. G. MACDONELL.
(Empire Library.)
“For sheer biting satire it would be hard
to beat Mr. A. G. Macdonell’s ‘Lords and
Masters.’ ” —“Sunday Times.”
WHITEOAK HARVEST.
By MAZO DE LA ROCHE.
(Empire Library.)
“They of all fictitious families deserve to
be known. May Miss de la Roche never
grow tired of them!” — “Punch.”
To bo Obtained from ail
Booksellers.
MACMILLAN & CO., LTD.
MELBOURNE & LONDON, W.C.2.
(0
THEAUSTRALASIAN.
READ
THE LITTLE SISTERS.
WESTRALIA.
Margaret, lone ewe lamb of the A. H.
Gillams, of Gabyon station, Wurarago,
set out for pastures green with Dr. and
Mrs. A. Webster’s son Ivan. Her fleece-
white laces, cowl-necked and basqued,
just cleared the ground as she paced the
aisle of St. Mary’s, West Perth. Acces-
sories were a wide-brimmed cream hat
and long sheaf of autumn-tinted gladioli.
Joan Baker attended with airy-fairy tulle
headpiece to match her blush-pink laces
and a bright touch of color in her Vic-
torian posy. Toasts at the Karrakatta
Club, with Mrs. Gillam in trim navy-
blue ninon ensemble.
The 3rd Field Brigade R.A.A. cele-
brated its transfer to new headquarters
at Karrakatta with a dance in its cheery
brigade hall. Scores of flags were draped
on the walls, twinkly lights in the brigade
colors were festooned about, and the
gun park was converted into a supper
room. Captain Montefiore arranged the
doings, and received the gaily-uniformed
guests and their dancing partners. Mrs.
Hubert Parker’s lame changed color with
each gyration, Mrs. T. K. Macfarlane’s
lobelia-blue georgettes were wrought with
silver and Mrs. Athol Hobbs spilled
multicolored blossoms on her fluffy
chiffons. Margaret Bennett’s eau-de-nil
ninons were clouded with tulle, an em-
bossed design ran through Gwen Brazier’s
dawn-pink satins and Grace and Dorothy
Robertson tied their twin frocks of beige
lace with scarlet sashes.
Edward Sutherland Kneebone and
Gwen Ffarrington were made one at St.
Peter’s, Victoria Park, to a musical ac-
companiment of Ada Caldwell’s singing
and Keith Devenish at the organ. The
bride’s ivory-silk velvets undulated from
a polished double collar fastened at the
back with a row of tiny buttons; the
filmy veil, attached to a lace cap, cas-
caded to the hem of the long shimmer-
ing train. Thelma Dent followed, carry-
ing a fan of blue and pink flowers in
her blue-mittened hands; over her Mar-
garet Rose satin was a princess coat of
blue pin-spot net, pleated at sleeve and
collar and clasped with a diamente
brooch.
With the comings and goings of so
many people in the public eye Perth has
had a busy time attending civic affairs.
After a round of shivoos, where she was
a guest of honor, Mrs. J. J. Poynton made
her first appearance as official hostess
at a midday reception to Countess Haig,
Mrs. J. A. Lyons, Archdale Parkhill’s
lady and Sheila Lyons. Mrs. Poynton’s
almond-green crepes were buckled with
gold, and her shoulder spray of pink
roses grazed the brim of her white-
stitched silk hat. The countess, driving
straight from the aerodrome, where she
had landed in the Bungana, topped fine-
striped red, blue and white silks with a
white lace straw' hat, Mrs. Lyons wound
double fox furs about navy-blue georg-
ettes, the Parkhill lady’s caped black-
and-white coin-spot marocains revealed
a Valenciennes lace vestee and Sheila
Lyons mixed brown and green in her
plaid tunic frock.
One of the largest farewell parties for
Lud Mayor Poynton and his lady was
that given by the H. B. Jacksons at the
Esplanade Hotel, where 250 guests turned
up between 5.30 and 7 p.m. The hostess
wove a self-pattern into her graceful
black crepe Roubaix, and Mrs. Poynton
edged the wide sleeves of her tea-rose
silks with brown and green embroideries.
For the City Council’s speeding of the
couple the stairway of the Town Hall
was banked with palms, and guests
wound their way through a forest of
ferns in the hall. A presentation was
made to Mrs. E. L. Barrett in recogni-
tion of her services during her term of
office. Her black mandarin coat swung
back from a royal-blue creation as she
received a silver dressing set, cigarette
case and compact set and a platinum
watch. Cr. T. W. Langley and his navy-
ninon-clad other half were in box seats.
Before leaving for England in the
Orontes the Norman Temperleys and
daughter Dorothy were equal favorites
in the farewell party welter. Included
in Dorothy’s programme were tennis at
Molly Manning’s, more tennis with Mary
Forrest as hostess, and a chain dinner
party arranged by Betty Wood and
Margot Law. This started with aperitifs
at Henry Russell’s flat, a course at the
Richard Nobles’ in Crawley, another at
the R. O. Laws’ and the end of the meal
at the Hilton Woods’. As a finale to the
evening Tom Bunning and Russell Henry
put on a dance for 100 at the Bunning
home, Mosman Bay.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Countess Haig established a record
in the number of institutions, societies,
clubs and charitable associations she has
visited. She was particularly inter-
ested in the work of the Legacy Club
and the Red Cross. Invited to afternoon-
tea at the Lady Galway Hut, Henley
Beach, the countess was received by the
president, C. A. Edmunds, and Matron
Trenman. The visitor took a movie of
the men in the home, and then crossed
over to the Junior Red Cross Holiday
Home that has been such a success and
took pictures there. It was a very repre-
sentative gathering, including Mayoress
Dunstan, the Symon lady (who presented
the countess with a sheaf of flowers) and
Henry Newland.
The Reginald Walkers, of Kensington
Gardens, returned in the Strathnaver after
a tour of South America and West Indies.
A thing that interested them greatly in
Brazil was the butterfly industry. The
insects are caught in Central America,
dried, packed and sent down to the fac-
tories in the cities, where all sorts of
things are made out of the wings.
At her parents’ home, Glenelg, Mary
Toll gave a farewell party for Adelaide
Cudmore, of Mount Lofty. She and
her parents leave shortly for Queens-
land, where they will live for two years.
The following day Patricia Manton
gave a cocktail party for Miss Cudmore.
Hostess and guest made their debut to-
gether last year at a dance given by the
Bonython lady. The party was at the
home of Patricia’s aunt, Mrs. L. E.
Clarke, Unley'Park.
Lieut.-Col. and Mrs. Frank Lloyd
gave a late-afternoon party at their home
at Wayville. The lawn was floodlighted,
and an oyster bar proved a great attrac-
tion. The hostess was gowned in rich
carmine satin. Mrs. Lloyd’s mother, who
helped entertain the guests, chose deep
delphinium-blue chiffon velvet.
The engagement has been announced
of Joan, younger daughter of the Stanley
Murrays, of Tusmore, to Jack, second son
of the R. Burns Cumings, of Torrens-
ville. Bride-to-be was one of last year’s
debs.
At the bridge party in aid of Minda
Home, held in the dining-hall at John
Martin’s, the prizes included bottles of
brandy, whisky and wine from all the
hotels in the city. Boxes of half a dozen
pairs of silk stockings were numerous,
and other offerings were a holiday trip
in a service car and an aeroplane trip.
The chief engineers, Mrs. H. J. Lipman
and Dorothy Elms, were well pleased
with the roll-up of over 300.
TASMANIA.
Officers of the Sydney, Swan and Ven-
detta combined to give a jolly dance in
the Sydney on the night of the races.
Guests included Rear-Admiral Lane-
Poole and his lady and daughter Ann,
and frocking was smart. Among the girls
were the two Curtises from Sydney,
Lorna Dawson (Adelaide), Roma Laid-
law (Sydney), Joan Marks (Sydney) and
several from the north and the Midlands.
The F. X. de Bavays gave a cocktail
party at their charming home at the Cas-
cades. Mrs. de Bavay’s cocktail suit, in
black, had a waisted coatee, and the
short sleeves had a bright red lining, with
a touch of gold thread to match the vest.
Major and Mrs. John Clarke, who are
enjoying the Speck’s breezes after the
heat of Burma, dispensed cocktails in
Mrs. A. Walsh’s flat. Over 100 guests
rolled up. The hostess wore a white-
and-navy turnout with white hat bear-
ing narrow pipings of navy.
Bridge parties on a big scale in aid
of the Victoria League’s funds have been
prevalent in the north. Among host-
esses who lent their houses were Mrs.
Effingham Lawrence, Mrs. John Ram-
say and Mrs. V. Von Bertsuch.
Mrs. Tom Lyons filled tne Queen
Mary’s rooms with guests at a morning-
tea with a double-barrelled purpose—to
say good-bye before she and Sybil start
for England, and to welcome Mrs. Nares.
Lady Clark, with Joan McLennan, was
among the guests. .
Mrs. Hungerford’s pretty house was a
perfect setting for her cocktail party.
The late afternoon was quite warm, so
every room was thrown open and seats
and tables were set about the garden :
thus, though the guests, who included
Lady Clark, were many, there was no
crush.
The lounge at Hadley’s hummed with
guests at the Scott-Powers’ at-home in
honor of Charles Benson. Mrs. Scott-
Power being on the mainland, Joan
helped her father receive; she looked
fresh and charming in a pastel lace frock
and red hat. Most of the musical folk
and many not-so-musical were at the
party.
Authoress Edith Lyttleton (G. B. Lan-
caster) is spending a holiday in the Speck,
chiefly with relatives in the north.


The Commonwealth Government having prohibited the importation of American Firearms, the only Arms suitable
for all Australian conditions, "WIMCHBSTIR World Standard Rifles will shortly be unprocurable. Do not
miss this opportunity of obtaining the Rifle you want, the Rifle of supreme accuracy, and. above all. the Rifle
that is SAFE to shoot. Stocks are rapidly diminishing and cannot be replenished. ORDER NOW.
saf
MODEL 67
.22-cal. Single-shot, Bolt-action, 27in.
Barrel, Elevating Rear Sight. Adapted for Short, Long
and Long Rifle Regular and Super Speed Cartridges.
Price 50/-
Carriage Paid.
sdf
Barrel, Adj
and Long
Price .. , .
MODEL 68
.22-cal. Single-shot, Bolt-action, 27in.
ustable Peep Sight. Adapted for Short, Long
Rifle Regular and Super Speed Cartridges.
557-
Carriage Paid.
mm
MODEL 69
• 22-cal. Bolt-action Repeater, 25in.
r ci *' oun< i Tapered Barrel; Two Maga-
zines, one for Short, other for Long and Long-rifle, with
Sporting Rear Sight. Price , 95/,
With Adjustable Peep Sight. Price ' 95/.
Carriage Paid.
"WINCHESTER
WORLD STANDARD RIFLES
have special proof steel barrels for the use of
Super-speed Cartridges, and are scientifically
proportioned, drilled and rifled to ensure maxi-
mum accuracy and balance. Full-size Walnut
Stock with Shot Gun type Butt greatly adds to
appearance and ease in handling.
Model 69, fitted with Lyman No. 422
Expert Telescopic Sight. Price, £B/10/-.
Carriage Paid.
WRITE FOR BOOKLET OF
WINCHESTER
COMPLETE RANGE OF ARMS.
COWLES & DUNN
71 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
’Phone: M 3388.
sdf
MODEL 62
.22-cal. Slide-action, Hammer-
repeating Rifle, 23in. Round Barrel, for Short, Long
and Long-rifle. Price . . £5/10/-. Carriage paid.
New Winchester Model 37 Steelbilt' Single Barrel
Shot Gun, 12 Gauge, 30in. Barrel, Full Choke,
Chambered for 2§in. Cartridges. Price .... 65/-
Carriage Paid.
Iver Johnson “Champion” Single Barrel Shot Gun.
12 Gauge, 30in. Barrel, Full Choke, Chambered for
2fin. Cartridges. Price 55/-
Carriage Paid.
i
iver Johnson Single-shot Bolt-
action Rifles, .22 cal. Model X,
22in. barrel 32/6
Carriage Paid in N.S.W.
The Long White Cloud
Why These Suspicions?
While the Pan-American Airways
clipper is eating up the 7910 miles be-
tween San Francisco and Auckland
(M.L.), Australians and Maorilanders are
wondering what their Governments have
done about the Tasman Sea service.
Its inauguration is of equal advantage
to each country. A 12-hour crossing
would reduce by days the air-mail times
between Australia and America and
Maoriland and England. The 1200
dividing sea miles are only 100 more
than the shortest of the four San Fran-
cisco-Maoriland stages —and the Tasman
is only half the distance of the hop
from the U.S.A. mainland to Honolulu.
The American company, according to
its Maoriland representative, has no in-
tention of spanning the Tasman, so the
last link in a world chain of air services
remains the responsibility of the Aus-
tralian and Maoriland Governments.
For years there has been lack of co-
operation in Tasman Sea politics. To-
day Maoriland has an Australian-born
P.M. and several Australian Cabinet
Ministers, but bickering continues.
When Canberra announced the agree-
ment under which the England-Australia
flying-boats will operate, P.M. Savage
complained that, although his Govern-
ment was indirectly interested, it had
not been advised of the final details.
Then P.M. Lyons taxed Maoriland with
completing the Pan-American agreement
without notifying Canberra ; he had to
retract this a couple of days later.
Sunk as they are in internal politics,
both Governments are overlooking essen-
tial facts. The countries boast more than
the same Empire interests ; nearly 50,000
Maorilanders live in Australia, while the
65,000 Australians in Maoriland are not
as far from home as Perth is from Mel-
bourne.
“M.”: Berlin cables that Von Luck-
aer, the German naval officer who was
interned at Motuihi Island in the Auck-
land (M.L.) harbor early in the war, is
again to sail the Pacific. Of course, the
cableman digs up a political reason for
the cruise, but it is more than likely that
Von Luckner, always a fearless and
gracious enemy, simply wants to have
another look at the part of the world
where the seamanship he displayed in
making his brief but sensational escape
won him the admiration of most Maori-
landers. For sextant on that occasion
he used an island-made job that Harold
Catty, the Tasmanian now representing
Pan-American Airways in M.L., de-
scribes as a “remarkable example of
high-class craftsmanship.” It was made
by one of the 16-year-old cadets grabbed
at Pago Pago and interned with Von
Luckner, a primus stove supplied most
of the material, and Gatty, who exam-
ined it the other day in a Maoriland
museum, says it has nearly all the ad-
justments and details of the modern
standard sextant, and is “accurate for
certain navigation over long ocean dis-
tances.” When Von Luckner again
reaches Maoriland it would be a nice
gesture if the sextant he must remember
so well were returned to him.
* * * si:
“D.N.”: Blenheim, at the top of
Maoriland’s South Island, is a historic
aviation centre. It was from the Wood-
burne flying field, soon to be a Govern-
ment Air Force station, that Kingsford
Smith lifted the old Southern Cross to
begin the first Maoriland-Australia flight
in 1928. The municipal airport, now
nearing completion, has been an aero-
drome since Ewan Dickson made the
first Cook Strait flight in 1920 ; later that
year the Marlborough Aero Club turned
the field into Maoriland’s first club
’drome. A modern passenger building
is to be erected beside the clubhouse
which provided Clarke with a cup of tea
after his trans-Tasman hop from Sydney.
* * * *
“Kiwit”: At the burial of Rua, the
Maori prophet, nearly all the traditional
rules governing native tangis were dis-
“But if I ket out t'ere mightn't be enough Water to cuƒƒer te ladies!"
regarded. About 10 days after death he
was entombed almost within the walls
of his own house at Matahi —a house
that is still to be used as a home. Most
of the 300 or so Maoris and white people
who attended the funeral left without
waiting for the tangi to end, and the
burial service itself took place in the
dead man’s home instead of in the meet-
ing house. However, the tangi produced
the usual keening of the native women ;
the usual tears rolled down their faces
and those of their men ; and some ear
pendants and other personal trinkets went
into the tomb along with the dead man’s
clothes and bedding. Rua, incidentally,
was not a chief, but won his power by
oratory and personality. When he
returned to his people in the Urawera
mountains in 1905 he had worked for a
time among the pakehas, and in a com-
munity still remote from European in-
fluences his knowledge quickly won a
respect that amounted in time to tribal
adoration.
* * * *
“Korero”: There’s nothing like a
change, but how is this one? Taranaki’s
Mt. Egmont, 8260 ft. high, was frequently
climbed by a young South African who
managed an Eltharn (M.L.) timber mil!
for several years. Six months ago he
ascended Egmont for the last time and
returned to Johannesburg—where he is
now employed as an engineer in a gold-
mine that runs as far below the earth’s
surface as Egmont sticks up above sea-
level !
# * * *
“Fergus”: Maoriland’s sheep export
trade with South America (B. 10/3/’37)
began when a number of its sons
migrated to Argentina early in the cen-
tury ; they founded quite a few of to-
day’s South American flocks, and
through the years have turned to Maori-
land for fresh blood. Argentina’s Corrie-
dale flock book was instigated by E. S. C.
Haydon, a North Canterbury man who
lived there for more than 20 years. He
imported his first stud sheep from his
father, the late Joseph Haydon, of Vir-
ginia, North Canterbury, and their
progeny have since spread through the
State. E. S. C. Haydon, at present in
Maoriland, leaves for Buenos Ayres in
June to judge the Romney Marsh,
Corriedale and Southdown sections of
the Argentina Rural Society’s annual ex-
hibition. Most of the sheep he will see
have been exported from Maoriland or
are descendants of Maoriland exports.
* * * *
“Motu”: National superannuation,
promised by the Maoriland Labor Gov-
ernment for next session (B. 17/3/’37),
is anticipated to cost about £14,000,000
to launch. Another shilling will auto-
matically disappear from every pound
in the pay envelopes of participants be-
tween the ages of 16 and 60. At present
about four million pounds is levied every
year for the non-contributory pensions
that will be wiped out by universal
superannuation. And, of the 14 million
smackers, superannuation tax is expected
to yield about half; the rest is to come
from consolidated revenue.
❖ ❖ * *
“Xo”: Maoris argue shrewdly, as
Prime Minister Savage found out when
he visited Princess Te Puea’s pah in the
Waikato. He was concluding a Dominion
tour on which he had told most centres
that improved business conditions, while
owing something to produce price-rises
overseas, were due in large part to the
Labor Government’s policy of increasing
the money in Maoriland circulation by
raising wages. The Waikato Maoris, fol-
lowing the lead of other tribes, asked for
settlement of their land-compensation
claims ; instead of the £5OOO a year they
agreed to accept some years ago, they
asked for £lO,OOO “in view of the
improved conditions”! Mr. Savage
resorted to the vague reply that his Gov-
ernment would not be “less generous
than its predecessors.” He then heard
Apirana Ngata make the curious obser-
vation that few pake-
has realised “how great
a struggle there had
been before the Maori
could bring himself to
face the indignity of
accepting monetary
compensation for
bloodstains.”
* * *
“Cluny”: The head-
ing “Prospecting with
Ice Axes” in a recent
issue of a Maoriland
weekly caused a Mel-
bourne man who spent
a year or two gold-
prospecting in West-
ralia to sit up and
think. It labelled a
story about the Gov-
ernment geological
party at present comb-
ing square miles of
high bush country
where the Southern
Alps reached into lower Westland. One
camp is on the Fox River at an alti-
tude of 1000 ft.; another, where kea
pie regularly appears on the menu,
is 4000 ft. higher. Prospecting at these
altitudes in southern Maoriland entails
use of ice-axes. The Melbourne
fellow goggled. “If I’d seen that when
I was sandy, sweaty, bad-tempered and
fly-pestered up in the nor’-west I’d have
gone dotty,” was his comment. “Most
of the time I was up there I would cheer-
fully have signed away all the gold I
might ever have won for a chunk of ice
the size of my fist!” He took the clip-
ping ; it is being sent to a brother who
is still chasing colors in Westralia’s sun-
baked interior.


Test any
Radio Set
from the grid of the first
valve to the output of the speaker
with a
CALSTAN
A.C.-D.C. CIRCUIT TESTER.
Caftan i
v,:::
Here is a compact circuit
tester that positively out-
performs many instruments
selling at much higher
prices. The scale length of meter is 3jm.,
optional leatherette or metal box.
RANGES:
D.C. Volts:
5, 10, 50, 250, 1000.
A.C. and Output Volts:
5, 10, 50, 250, 1000.
Milliamps:
1,5, 25, 100, 500.
Ohms:
0-2000, 0-20,000, 0-2,000,000.
D.C. £5/15/-
A.C., D.C. £7/17/6
Plus Tax.
SLADE'S PRECISION
TEST EQUIPMENT
Lang Street Croydon
’Phones: UJ5381-5382.
RADIO BARGAINS.
Philips Eliminators 10/-, 12/6, 15/-; Philips Audio
Transformers 10/-, A.W.A. 6/-, others from 3/-.
Lightning Arrester and Switch, 6d. Variable
Condensers from 2/-. Reinartz Coils 1/6. Valves:
6-volt Battery, 6/-; A.C., 227, 3/6; 224, 4/6;
42, 6/-; 6A7, 7/6; 687, 7/6; 2A6, 6/-. Cord Grip
Holders, 3d. All tested and guaranteed. Add postage.
RADIO SUPPLY STORES,
7 ROYAL ARCADE, SYDNEY.
RADIOKES
VI BRATOR
Radiokes PERFECTED Vibrator—easy to total
marvellously economical —100% satisfactory,
vou money on batteries. Suitable for ANY battery
opt ffi/fi/- Voltage Divider Unit, 15/’"-
Write to Radiokes, Ltd., Sydney, for free illustrated
literature ROW.
RADIO NEWS.
DON B. KNOCK'S PAGES.
Regenerative I.F. for
Selectivity.
About the most popular form of super-
het for amateur band work is the Super
Gainer introduced last year by Jones.
The Bulletin’s Ideal Amateur added to
this a stage of I.F. amplification.
The simplified method of obtaining a
frequency beat is probably the outstand-
ing feature of the Super Gainer. The
same effect is obtained as with a sepa-
rate 8.F.0. valve, but without the hiss
that occurs where an extra valve is used.
The usual and surest way to get high
selectivity in a superhet is by using a
crystal gate at the I.F. frequency. In
the crowded amateur bands a good
superhet so fitted can cut through the
welter of jumbled stations and select a
wanted signal—at least, for telegraphy.
Without resorting to the crystal a good
compromise can be made by introduc-
ing regeneration in the I.F. amplifier.
“Single signal” operation can be so ob-
tained.
The diagram shows the simplest way
of fitting regeneration to an I.F. ampli-
fier without having to get at the inter-
nals of an I.F. transformer. The Jones
idea of cathode regeneration is em-
ployed. Cathode coil Lis made by wind-
ing approximately 100 turns of 30
enamelled copper wire (assuming an I.F.
of 465 or thereabouts) on a dowel
3in. long. The 400-ohm potentiometer
takes care of the regeneration control •
alternatively, the usual 10,000-ohm poten-
tiometer can be used in place of the 400-
ohm potentiometer shown in series with
the 350-ohm resistor. The arrangement
shown, however, will give somewhat
smoother control.
Using Iron-cored Coils.
Now that the modern iron-cored coil
has found its way into commercially-
designed receivers many constructors will
wish to try experimental receivers using
the cores. The Sirufer core is well suited
to home construction, being designed
with a split slotted bobbin former to
take coil windings. It can be obtained
from the distributors, Ducon Condenser
Pty., Waterloo, Sydney.
Such iron cores are well worth experi-
menting with in all forms of receivers,
and an example was given in the port-
able receiver described in B. 16/12/’36.
This employed in the detector circuit
the familiar arrangement of a grid and
reaction coil with series condenser con-
trol of oscillation known as the Reinartz.
The coil so constructed on a Sirufer core
gave remarkable gain and sharpened
things up excellently. With a simple
receiver of this kind and a separately
tuned R.F. stage, there is not likely to
be any instability trouble, provided the
usual screening precautions are taken.
It would perhaps be a different story
with a T.R.F. experimental receiver with
two or three ganged R.F. stages, especi-
ally if the detector is a regenerative type.
With iron-cored coils there is a risk of
parasitic oscillation introduced by the
detector feedback circuit. A detector
plate coil needs only about half the in-
ductance value of an air-cored coil. It
will, in any case, be closely coupled to
the grid coil in the slots of the winding
former.
A method of guarding against trouble
with parasitics is shown in the diagram.
A resistance is inserted in series with
the lead from the detector plate to the
reaction condenser; this resistance can
be somewhere between 100 and 1000
ohms. The lowest value consistent with
smooth oscillation should be used, other-
wise there may be excessive damping.
While the idea is recommended for re-
ceivers covering the 200-550-metre broad-
cast range, it is not particularly suitable
for a short-wave receiver; in this values
of reaction condenser capacity and
amount of inductance in feedback coil
must be determined experimentally.
D. B. K.
Sydney's 1937 Amateur
Radio Exhibition.
So successful was the 1936 Amateur
Radio and Short-wave Radio Exhibition
that there wasn’t half enough room for
everything that could have been shown.
For the 1937 show the N.S.W. Division
of the Council of the W.I.A. has decided
to hire Sydney’s Town Hall.
On this occasion the public will be
able to see first-class amateur stations in
action, working ultra-short waves as
well as the regular short-wave DX
channels. There will be constructional
competitions in short-wave receiver de-
signing, and good prizes will be offered
in all sections. Traders and manufac-
turers, for their part, welcome this ex-
hibition as an opportunity to show
visitors something beyond a mere dis-
play of highly-polished cabinets with
gleaming dials. Everybody knows there
is a variety of good receivers to suit any
condition to-day, but most listeners
would like to know something more of
the salient points of the vitals. They
will have the opportunity between May
3 and 8.
The keynote is to be “working” ex-
hibits. One stand plans to have a model
vessel in a tank controlled by short-
wave radio. Another will show a British
aviation “homing” device for guiding
aeroplanes. The P.M.G.’s radio depart-
ment will have a comprehensive display.
A leading manufacturer will demonstrate
the first of the new “communications ’
receivers.
The show will be declared open by
short-wave radiophone from U.S.A., by
an official of the American Radio Relay
League. A prominent Australian short-
wave broadcasting station has been in-
vited to instal a studio in the hall.
The exhibition is to be organised by
amateurs.
D. B. K.
All Round the Dial.
“Fancar”: Re the 8.8. C. inquiry for
an eyewitness of the Krakatoa upheaval
of 1883 (B. 6/1/’37). Though not actu-
ally a survivor, my father (C. Jensen,
shorty Mter the eruption. An ex-ship-
carpenter now aged 77, he says the con-
trast of the two passages through these
straits is his most poignant sailing
memory. On the first occasion the
waterway, then considered the most
colorful in the East, was alive with native
trading boats vending fruit and Oriental
merchandise to the ships travelling
through the Straits. On the return death
and desolation seemed everywhere. The
air was tainted with sulphur, and the
sea coated with a scum of lava and
pumice. The ship went through alone,
not even one cheery native boatman
meeting her.
* * * *
“Avon”: A dinkum Australian radio
entertainment feature that deserves a
The unveiling! Philips 1937 Radioplayers, with audioscopic reproduction, m
process of demonstration to dealers and guests at the Lapstone (I N.S.W .) convention.
cheer is Edmund Barclay's serial play
“As Ye Sow,” which has been filling
half an hour of 2FC’s programme at
8 p.m. each Monday for the last three
months. It follows the career of a
pioneer N. S. Wales settler, Gilbert Teal
(fictional, of course), and his ex-convict
wife. A fine fellow, Teal, and Prudence,
his wife, is finer still. Marsden, Bligh,
Macquarie, Phillip and Brisbane come
into the story; the brutality of the con-
vict system is twined into it, and
massacres of abos. are touched upon.
There are humor and pathos, good
incidental music by Howard Carr,
and competent acting. But above all
the production shines because of its
excellent radio technique. To portray
character, suggest scenery and limn
every situation definitely and unmistak-
ably by sound alone is a difficult job, but
it has been accomplished in this case
with signal success.
* * * *
“A.P.T.”: Heard from 2HD recently:
“Don’t forget our bridge party to-night
2HD’s lady hostess will be present.
Radio Comment.
“Enno”: Frank Bridgewater, well
known on broadcast receivers after mid-
night for his experimental transmissions
from VK2ZO, Moore Park, Sydney, lost
his sight in an accident a few years ago.
That does not deter him from fully en-
joying his hobby of radio, and a young
assistant, son of the old original A2JM,
looks after his adjustments. One evening
recently the two were worried about a
sudden development of hum and R.F.
feedback in the microphone circuits. It
was traced to rats, which had taken
a liking to the rubber covering of earth-
ing leads, and had eaten through the lot,
wire as well. Frank is a stickler for good
transmission quality, and lost no time in
waging fierce war on the rodents.
* * * *
“Querex”: Wave-changing devices are
invariably of the switch type, in different
forms. Where coils are switched the
well-designed switch mechanism short-
circuits to earth unused coils on the low
frequency side. As one factory engineer
put it to me: “The ideal switching
arrangement takes out the unused coils
and throws them away pro tem.” An
English manufacturer has turned out a
neat little coil -changing gadget in the
form of a rotary barrel affair. It is only
about 4in. in diameter, and carries coils
to tune from 4 to 90 metres. Ceramic
insulation is used throughout, and the
complete unit sells at 15s. 6d. Coils are
actually changed by rotation, and make
contact in turn with leaf springs on a
ceramic cross bar. It is simple and effec-
tive. A highly-efficient all-wave receiver
could be made by ganging three of them.
Such components are badly needed in
Australia.
* * * *
“Edeng”: A.B.C. is taking over the
seven-year-old 4BC. From two small
rooms in Adelaide-street, Brisbane, and
a staff of five, the station has grown to
two floors and staff of 40.
Philips 1937 Radioplayer
Convention.
The 1937 conference in Sydney of
Philips radio officers and distributors
occupied two days. It started at the
Wentworth with a luncheon, sales-super.
J. Frost making those present known to
each other, and sales-manager George
Davidson outlining the business policy
for marketing Radioplayers this year. A
film from Holland was screened, de-
picting the steady onward march of the
Philips Co. After the dinner taxis
whisked everybody to a vaudeville show.
Next day a fleet of cars transported
everybody to Lapstone Hotel, Blue
Mountains. After luncheon there were
cricket, golf, swimming and other sports,
during golf H. C. Durant flew over from
Mascot and bombed the assembly witn
showers of golf balls. At a dinner tha
night managing director Den Hertog out-
lined expansion plans ; commercial man-
ager Dave Wyles talked about the
Philips organisation ; chief engineer Eric
Moore outlined salient points of the new
chassis, passing one round for exami-
nation ; W. Stewart, service and factor,
manager, told country dealers all aboui


IN SYDNEY TOWN HALL.
May 3 to May 8, Inclusive.
These are the dates when the largest
amateur and short-wave Radio Exhibition
yet staged in Australia will be open.
This exhibition has no connection with
any other. It is sponsored by the Wire-
less Institute of (N.S.W.
Division), the only organisation recognised
officially by the Commonwealth Govern-
ment as representative of the Australian
radio amateur.
The hall will be packed with displays of
radio apparatus not normally seen at the
usual kind of exhibition. Not a mere
cabinet show, but a comprehensive line-up
of experimental transmitters for short- and
ultra-short waves, receivers of all varieties,
including the new communications series,
and a thousand and one accessories dear
to the heart of the transmitter and receiver
constructor. Appropriate trade technical
components will be exhibited by leading
manufacturers and traders.
Some of the highlights planned are
working exhibits. Amateur stations will
be in action on the DX bands and also
ultra-shorts.
The Exhibition will be opened by short-
wave radio telephone from U.S.A.
Competition exhibits are open to the
short-wave listener-constructor as well as
the licensed transmitter.
The Postmaster-General’s Department
will be exhibiting all forms of equipment.
It is planned to have a short-wave
broadcasting station in action from the
hall. The finals for the Crawford Trophy
for the best amateur telegraphist in Aus-
tralia will be decided.
MAKE A NOTE OF THE DATES
AND BE IN SYDNEY AT THE TIME.
You will not want to miss a Show like
this one.
Exhibition Committee: W. M. Moore (VK2HZ)
D. B. Knock (VK2NO)
J. Moyle (VK2JU)
Brisbane’s Leading
Daily
THE
TELEGRAPH
has the largest sale in the
area of Greater Brisbane,
and carries the largest share
of local retail and classified
advertising.
Successful Traders
show the way
Brisbane’s most prosperous
business houses consistently
advertise in “The Tele-
graph.”
“The Telegraph” is Queens-
land owned and controlled.
Essentially the Home Paper
of the Brisbane people.
(Member of A.8.C.)
what to do and what not to do in servic-
ing, and Chas. Tyrrell, technical super-
intendent, described “audioscopic re-
production” as embodied in the new
Radioplayers. This feature, exclusive to
Philips, makes use of inverse feedback.
Briefly, with it all distortion is removed
from a single pentode-power valve, plus
similar treatment with all the valves and
even the output transformer. Then the
Radioplayers were unveiled and the most
amazing reproduction flooded the dining-
room—amazing in that a single audio
pentode was delivering sound in a
manner hitherto not considered possible.
At this point the proceedings from Lap-
A new B.B.C. station. The new
Penmon transmitter (seen here ) is
situated two miles from Beaumaris in
Anglesey, and will radiate pro-
grammes for Welsh listeners. The
aerial is a vertical radiator consisting
of an insulated tower with added top
capacity.
stone were broadcast through 2GB, 2UE,
2GZ and 2HD.
The conference was followed immedi-
ately by a similar one in Vic.
A.W.A. Conference.
Every year A.W.A. holds in Sydney a
conference of Radiola distributors, and
this year attendance increased by at
least 40 p.c., dealers and distributors
from city and country rolling up to the
Town Hall in force.
L. A. Hooke, g.m. of A.W.A., pre-
sided at the luncheon ; then E. T. Fisk
touched briefly on the history and record
of A.W.A. and dealt at length with the
future of and the problems attending
television. When television reached a
technical stage equal to that of present-
day broadcasting, he, for one, would
welcome it with open arms. So would
the radio trade. But it would be at least
five years, perhaps 10, before Australia
would have television as an acceptable
public service. Even with all the time
and money that had been spent on it in
Europe and U.S.A., he said, television
was still little more than a peep-show.
The problems of definition alone, apart
from the wide frequency channels neces-
sary and the limitations of ultra-short
waves, were immense, and until these
were overcome television could not
become a public service akin to modern
radio-broadcasting,
Responses to the address were made
by Aid. McElhone, J. B. Chandler, C. A.
Moses, F. Marden and others.
The 1937 models of Radiolas were
shown in an attractive display.
Amateur Chatter.
“Radio” (U.S.A.) tells of a radio en-
thusiast who lights his home electrically
free. Living virtually under the trans-
mitting aerial of a very powerful broad-
casting station, he has rigged up a reson-
ant circuit with aluminium piedishes for
tuning condensers, and draws enough
“soup” from the broadcasting station
even to light up a 1000-watt lamp over his
house verandah. In the process of ex-
perimenting he has received countless
severe R.F. burns, but is undaunted.
Broadcast authorities can do nothing
about it, as he is not tapping any station
circuit directly ; he is merely taking what
the air has to offer.
Another good one is about an Ameri-
can ham whose “flea-power” transmitter
is incapable of showing any reading in
the aerial on an R.F. meter, so he judges
when he is tuned for maximum output
by holding his tongue against the aerial
feeder! In contrast, one would imagine
that some of the “Californian kilowatts”
could drive high-power H.F. alternators
direct in the aerial circuit alone, judging
by the noise they make in Australia on
20 metres at peak periods.
A letter of commendation has been
received by the chairman of the Vigil-
ance Committee in each State from the
Chief R.I. recording that since the
scheme came into operation the DX
bands and methods of station operation
have been much cleaner. The only band
around Sydney of which one can now
seriously complain is 56mc.; but the
U.H.F. section of the W.I.A. does not
intend to permit unlicensed operation to
mar serious experimenting. Much of the
trouble on five metres arises from the
fact that apparatus of a kind is simple
to construct. Such apparatus is in order
in its proper sphere—possibly for some
commercial working—but it can be a
serious infliction on a crowded amateur
channel where modem apparatus is
gradually getting into action.
Take two stations in communication
using transceivers. They start off in con-
tact and are naturally both at the same
frequency. Because of variations in
switch contacts they gradually drift in
frequency as the changeovers take place,
and may in the end cover the whole
band as each retunes to the other. On
the receiver side they are usually just
about as powerful a radiator as on the
send side, added to which they are usu-
ally “self-squeggers.” They were won-
derful in 1933, but in 1937 they are retro-
grade.
Those who completely neglect 40
metres for the DX lures of 20 miss a
good thing on occasions. Although there
is not the opportunity of two-way ’phone
yarns with U.S.A., as ’phone is not per-
mitted there on 40, the C.W. stations
are pounding through from all parts of
the world. Many countries permit
’phone operation on 40, and at the right
time such QSOs are easily achieved.
Nearly all Europe, South Africa and
South America are available and audible.
One Sydney station recently worked a
batch of South African ’phones on 40
around 2 a.m. A station lately heard
working traffic with K6’s and W6’s signs
XSBIUB with an I.C.W. signal. XS
cannot be located in the prefix lists avail-
able, and this may be another ship
station. Americans are often very strong
in the evenings and in the early morn-
ing, and the old-time complement of
European DX is frequently to be found.
Forty metres is thus getting back into
the old stride.
Herb Becker, of W6QD, is back at his
old Manhattan Beach location, plus an
XYL, and is putting his usual powerful
signal across the Pacific on 20. He is
no “ ’phone-hound,” and loves to pound
the key. His DX notes in “Radio” are
most breezy and informative, and VKs
would help him considerably by shoot-
ing across any useful notes or news of
doings. Chas. Perrine, of W6CUH, re-
cently had a huge diamond aerial in
action. The estate agent sold the plot
and the new owner objected to all the
“clothes-line.” So Charles put the wire
nippers through the guys of a flock of
90ft. poles and stood by with a 2kw.
glare in his eyes as he watched them
topple to earth. He also is at his old
QRA, Hermosa Beach, California, plus
yyj ’
1
VK2NO.
Radio Trade Spotlight.
English set designers are paying in-
creasing attention to battery all-wave
superhets designed for use in the tropics,
and a review of the Birmingham Eddy-
stone Co.’s All-World Eight has ap-
peared in the “Wireless World” for
15/l/’36. It appears to be an attractive
receiver. It uses two-volt valves, finish-
ing up with push-pull triodes, and the
wave ranges are in three stages, 13.4-
34.6, 27.2-69.2 and 240-573 metres. Cabi-
net and chassis are aluminium alloy
castings, protected by a hard crystalline
enamel, and valve sockets, coil bases,
etc., are of a special insulating com-
pound known as DL9, a material which
has wide application in short-wave work.
Additional coils can be supplied to
bridge the wave-range gaps between the
standard ranges, thus giving the receiver
a complete coverage from 13.4 to 2000
metres. The circuit is designed for use
with a normal single-wire aerial, and in
the chassis design the screening is most
thorough. Both above and below the
chassis is divided into cells by integrally-
cast webs, and the main tuning con-
denser and I.F. transformers are com-
pletely enclosed in this way. All vital
leads carrying R.F. currents are con-
ducted through copper tubing, which, in
the case of the valves, is taken to within
a fraction of an inch of the caps. The
tuning dial is a two-speed type with
ratios of 22:1 and 115:1. Measured
“A” current is 0.52 ampere, and the “B”
On the left Charles Perrine ( W6CUH) and on the right Herb Becker
(W6QD ), both of the staff of “Radio,” U.S.A. They are apparently
entranced by the water-cooled “bottle” in the final stage of the old
W6QD transmitter. According to Herb, five minutes’ operation was suffi-
cient to supply hot bath-water for the household from the water-jacket
surrounding the “toob.”
current at 120 volts varies from sma. to
Bma., depending upon the amplification
control. English price of this receiver is
£27 10s., plus £3 10s. for the speaker.
An Australian agent for Eddystone is
R. H. Cunningham, 397 High-street,
Glen Iris, 5.E.6, Vic.
* * * *
A.W. Valve Co., 47 York-street, Syd-
ney, makes a free offer to Bulletin
readers in the form of (a) a great circle
map of the world, which indicates the
direction and distance of all countries,
taking Sydney as a centre; (£>) a world-
wide mileage chart, showing at a glance
the distance between any two capital
cities of the world; and (c) a booklet,
Cavalcade of Communication, illustrat-
ing in color all methods of communica-
tion used by man from the prehistoric
age. Included with (a) is a list of the
world’s short-wave broadcasting stations
with wave-lengths, callsigns and loca-
tion. A penny stamp should be included
for postage when writing for these gifts.
The Question Box.
Full name and address must accompany all
queries. Write legibly to avoid confusion in
addresses, etc.
(1) I intend sitting for the A.Q.C.P. What
is the best band to use ? Nearest active
amateurs are 500 miles away, and, owing to pres-
sure of work in winter, most spare time is be-
tween November and May. (2) Power will be
limited to six-volt accumulator and wind-driven
generator. What is the best method of obtain-
ing transmitter-plate supply? (3) The “Radio
1936 Handbook” shows a one-valve crystal
transmitter using a 6A6, and claimed to be
capable of 10 watts output. 1936 “A.R.R.L.
Handbook” shows one using a 59 crystal oscil-
lator capable of working on two bands from
one crystal. Each uses a 350 -volt 100 ma. gene-
motor. Which do you recommend? —s2l.
(1) The 40-metre band. For most of this
period 80 metres will be static-laden. (2) By
genemotor, but a high-capacity accumulator will
be needed. If possible, use two acccumula-
tors, one for heater and one for H.T. (3)
6A6 transmitter is suggested, because of extra
output. 'lf the Jones exciter is built up, with a
71A or 112 A following the 6A6, quite a fair
output could be obtained on 20 metres, doub-
ling from a 40-metre crystal.
* * * *
How is a microphone connected in conjunc-
tion with a microphone transformer for use
with a battery-operated amplifier using triode
valves throughout ? —523.
A diagram of the connections is given. One
side of the microphone is connected to A+
and the other side to one end of the trans-
former primary. The other end of the trans-
former primary is connected to one end of the
secondary, and this junction to A— . The
other end of the secondary connects to the
grid of the first valve of the amplifier. In this
way the filament supply for the amplifier valves
also provides microphone current instead of
having a separate battery for the purpose.
sis =i! * *
My T.R.F. short-wave receiver has just been
rebuilt to use a screen-grid detector, as in the
receiver in B. 10/3/’37. The only difference is
that I have used a Philips AFI, with a
.0001 mfd. by-pass condenser. The set is now
very sensitive, and reaction extremely smooth,
but 1 am troubled by an annoying hiss which
appears when a station or carrier is tuned in
on any band. Quality of reproduction is not
so good as formerly. How can I remove the
hiss which seems to arise from the AF7, and can
1 improve the quality of reproduction? —s22.
The valve may be at fault, or a leaking con-
denser or poor resistor may be the cause. Try
changing the .OOOlmfd. grid condenser and the
.Olmfd. feedback condenser, particularly if
of paper; only mica condensers should be
used in these positions. If these changes do
not cure the hiss try a process of elimination
on resistors, one by one. Possibly a partly-
dry joint may be responsible. Quality of re-
production is undoubtedly affected by the first
trouble.


TILLEY LAMPS
300 CANDLE POWER
British made. Fool
proof and trouble proof.
Burn for 10 hours on
li pints of kerosene.
Three times the life of
ordinary mantles. All
lamps fitted with
PYREX Globes and
insect proof fittings.
Model EX4 All Purpose
Lamp, as illustrated,
may be used as a
Storm Lantern, Hang-
ing Lamp, or Table
Lamp. Height, 19in.
Price, 47/6
Complete.
Obtainable Write foi- Catalogue of
from your local Table, Wall, Vase and
agent or Other Lamps.
asdf
W. KOPSEN & CO., LTD.,
70 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
BUILDS CHAMPIONS.
“Tri-cal”: Noticed that at a Junior
Farmers’ Show a youthful farmer of 12
years won the Champion Jersey Heifer
of the Show, the Cup for the Heifer
under six months and tied for the best-
reared calf with written record with the
one exhibit. The written record showed
that the calf received loz. of Tri-cal-os
Bone Flour daily, and the method of rear-
ing was advocated by the Advisory Com-
mittee to other members of the Club.
Thought you’d be interested. Remember
the address for particulars—
Davis Gelatine (Australia), Ltd,, G.P.O. Box 35835, Sydney.
Old Farmer.
«Js>.. JJ33
mm
£
a
INCREASE
YOUR LAMBING
by using
SEXINE
FOR YOUR RAMS.
IF vour Rams, Stallions or Boars fail in
the desired vitality, call SEXINE to
their aid. It acts immediately and is
absolutely harmless to the system. One
tablet dissolved in water and given as a
drench, or dry powdered and wl “
a small quantity of food, will give the
desired result. Write for pamphlets,
hold flattering testimonials from well-
known graziers.
PRICE: 13/6 PER TUBE OF TEN
TABLETS.
Lesser Strengths for Dogs, Cats, Birds, etc.
G. ARNOLD & CO.,
LIMITED,
Dept. 8., 35 Pitt St., Sydney.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
THE STUFF TO GIVE'EM
MEGGITTS LINSEED MEAL.
Fat-lamb Breeding.
“Crutchem”: The best type of Eng-
lish breed to use depends on the class of
country, ewe and annual rainfall. For
my property I prefer the English Leices-
ter ram mated with a large plain-bodied
merino ewe carrying 64-74’s wool.
I use nothing over a six-tooth. I tested
two similar mobs of ewes, split by the
drafting race, one joined to four-tooth
rams, the other to eight-tooth rams ; in
both cases stud E.L. rams. The lamb-
ing losses were about even in both mobs.
At marking, the young rams had 20 p.e.
more lambs than the eight-tooths.
Often we pull hard workers out for
a week and put them on lucerne. It pays
well, and with continual yarding is a
point worth remembering.
On my experience I would say don’t
give rams vitality pills. Also, never let
rams get bad feed ; it not only makes
them rogues, but lessens their value at
joining, especially when used twice a
year. Further, don’t mate small ewes. I
have proved that it doesn’t pay. I have
never yet seen one with a good sucker
lamb, and the small ewe’s, lamb takes
longer to mature. It pays to cull small
ewes when buying a mob, even if they
have to be sold at a loss.
Young stud rams, big ewes, plenty
of feeding, constant yarding when joined
and making sure the rams are working
when joined are the main principles of
good percentages with fat-lamb breeding.
“Yeno Ham”: Breeders should stick
to first-cross ewes as fat-lamb mothers.
For one thing, purebreds eat much more
feed than crossbreds.
If uneven ewes are rejected, first-cross
mothers are ideal. Big-framed merino
ewes should be mated with Romney
Marsh or Border Leicester rams as a
foundation. Mate the resultant ewes
with good Downs rams.
Climatic conditions in N.S.W. are not
suitable for using purebred Romney
Marsh ewes for fat-lamb raising. At
Cowra (N.S.W.) experiment farm, in the
centre of the fat-lamb belt, it was found
that the Romneys would not mate until
the end of lanuary. For fat lambs mat-
ing should not be later than December.
Searing Tails.
“Marker”: Searing of lambs’ tails was
tried out thoroughly 30 years ago. One
Vic. pastoralist, with big interests m Q.,
once said in my presence: “We’d as
soon discard the drafting gate as the
sear. We look on them as being of equal
value.” Yet within less than a year the
searing-iron was wiped out on every
property with which he had any con-
nection. ... ,
In those days (and I was right in the
middle of it) there were all sorts of sears
—things like tobacco-cutters, things
heated by blowlamps, plain spadelike
things and others. They all went to
their proper place —the scrap-heap.
One of the reasons they went was that
the fly was then making itself felt in
W.Q. The seared tail helped the striking
fly. Another reason they went was be-
cause their use threw the lamb back too
far —the little fellow didn’t recover as
rapidly as from a clean cut.
The Demand for Wool.
“K.Mc.”: A feature of the current
wool season has been the. comparatively
low prices for faulty and poorly-classed
wools. It was expected that the return
of Japanese competition would improve
the value of these clips, but Nippon, hav-
ing already bought bulky weights of
similar wool elsewhere, has been mainly
a keen bidder for specialty lines.
Formerly very popular, short wools
also now attract little demand. Well-
grown, high-yielding warp wools of all
counts inspire the strongest competition
—especially those showing good breed-
ing. Both good pastures and good blood
are essential to produce this type.
Quality rams are to be had at a reason-
able price, and the present high rates
for wool leave no excuse for breeding
nondescript clips.
Latest returns indicate that demand is
overtaking production. For the twelve-
month ending December 31 last, stocks
of tops decreased in France by
9,765,0001 b., in Germany by 3,245,0001 b.,
“What y' think this is—a shearin'-shed?"
in Belgium by 1,986,0001 b., and Japan’s
stocks were the lowest for. five years.
Yorkshire mills are more active than at
any time since 1928. Uncle Sam is again
a useful buyer and our own mill require-
ments are. constantly- increasing. Under
the most favorable conditions wool pro-
duction only increases ■ slowly ; so, bar-
ring upheavals, the outlook promises a
good general demand for some years
ahead.
Fleeces and Culling.
“Bungaree”: Fleeces should be judged
on four points—length of staple ; density.;
quality and evenness ; color. . Open the
fleece on the shoulder, ribs, back and
breech, and on the neck and belly if
necessary. After handling a few sheep,
the average length of staple will be
apparent, but with hoggets the classer
should satisfy himself that they are one
drop and not a mixture of spring and
summer lambs, which should be handled
separately.
Cull short wools and any that are
poorly covered on points or underneath.
Backs are most important, especially in
hot, open, dusty districts. Density and
length on backs are essential to combat
the perishing effect of dust, rain and sun
and confine it to the tip of the staple
only.
Reject loose, open-woolled sheep and,
if the limit permits, any with lockv,
pencil-stapled wool. 1 aking the shoulder
as standard, cull anything that shows
great variation 'in quality. The wool
will naturally be a shade stronger on
neck folds and breech, but it should be
of good quality. In a strong-woolled
flock, more evidence of coarseness must
be expected, but in no case should,
straight wiry fibres with a white stary
appearance be tolerated. Crimp, or char-
acter is the stamp of good breeding;
straight, characterless wool shows lack
of quality and should be culled. Deal
ruthlessly with any signs of dogginess.
Older ewes may be expected to show
signs of running out, but even with them
pronounced cases should be got rid of.
Grasp a handful of the fleece and
compress it. Good wool should fill the
hand, giving an impression of substance.
Softness varies with climate, but the wool
should never be harsh, wasty or lacking
body. A fleece in good condition should
be of a soft creamy color. Stary white
fleeces lack softness and tend to run
straight. Yellow-discolored fleeces not
only tend! to coarseness, but are more
susceptible to water : rot and attract flies,
apart from their lower value.
The dry ewes in a mob will naturally
show better-nourished, longer-stapled
fleeces, and allowance must be made for
them.
When the job is over, put the cull
earmark on at once and market the ewes.
The Condition Element.
“Steve”: Three years ago three of my
dairy cows calved within a few days of
each other. Two were good producers,
and one mediocre. No. 1 of the good
yielders was miserably poor ; we doubted
for a while her ability to pull round.
No. 2 was in only fair condition. No.
3, the low-yielder, was fat.
The calves —all heifers —were normal
and healthy during the “bucket” stage
and after weaning. Last spring I broke
these three in, and put them under a
nine months’ test. The calf of No. 1
was the bottom of the herd with only
1651 b. butterfat. No. 2 was dispensed
with after a couple of months. She was
suffering from chronic scours, and hei
yield was consequently, affected. No. 3,
in striking contrast to her dam, yielded
well for a two-year-old.
This raises the question of how much
ability to yield is inherited. While this
evidence is far from conclusive, it shows
that condition is not unimportant. The
beneficial effect of introducing high-
yielding strains into our herds will be
largely discounted if the young stock are
allowed to be born and grown in low
condition.
Bird v. Tick.
“Dodger”: The cattle tick favors
country from the Gulf to the Tweed
(N.S.W.) right round the coastline, with
an occasional excursion of a hundred or
two miles into the interior. If any city
ornithologist knows an anti-tick bird
that will do its job in the varying climes
that stretch represents, he has knowledge
that runs counter to all my experience.
About the only bird found all over that
country is the wagtail. Willie gets away
with an odd tick, as does his mate the
peewee. They have about as much
chance of controlling the tick as I have
of controlling taxation. Both of them
have been here since the crack of
creation, and each had a few million
years’ start on the tick.
If birds thus acclimatised aren’t up to
the job, what chance has any importa-
tion? The answer is easy: the import
will do as the Indian myna has done —
he’ll stick to easy living about the towns
and refuse to roll his swag and go bush.
Horse Bots.
“Horsey”: Where bots are prevalent
it has been found that nearly all horses
have some, and that apparent good con-
dition does not. mean that there is no
infection. Fat horses have often died
from the effects of these chaps.
It is advisable to drench all horses
with the veterinary drench specially de-
signed for the purpose. Failing that, ex-
cellent results can be obtained with
tansy teat infusion. Any chemist should
be able to get it, and it is made like
ordinary tea. Starve the horses all night,
and drench with about two quarts of
strong infusion when lukewarm. (A
thirsty horse may drink it without drench-
ing.) If there are no results after four
hours, drench again with half the amount,
and turn the horse out.
Coastal Fattening in the North.
“Beefo”: The failure of those Kam;-
laroi cattle (B. 3/3/’37) to hold then
condition after having been “topped-up
on new grasses planted at the Tulb
(N.Q.) does not surprise me.
Coastal areas can have bad effects on
western-bred stock. In the ’24-25
drought thousands of sheep from W.Q.
were brought to the coast for agistment.
The pastures looked all that could be
desired, but numerous carcasses soon told
their own story. The rank grasses on
which coastal-bred stock thrived were
unfitted for western-bred sheep, and the
country was worm-infested.
1 went with sheep and horses on to
what, to the eye, was splendid relief
(i Continued on page 44.)


The Superiority of
THE SUNTYNE
asdf
shows in the result of its work on
farms and in crop competitions in
many districts. Another of many
successes is the crop of Dundee
grown by Mr. W. J. Cruickshank,
of Berrigan, N.S.W., who won the
Riverma Wheat Championship.
Estimated by the Judge to yield
43 bushels, actually it produced
43 bushels to the acre and a
Suntvne sowed the seed.
It cultivates all the surface —no
weeds missed —pulverizes the soil
and makes an ideal seed-bed —
level, compact, with finer soil
below, and the right soil-mulch
covering the seed, which it puts
in the right place for quick ger-
mination and a good start, with
space for development of strong,
healthy plants.
POSITIVE ACCURATE UNIFORM SOWING IS ASSURED
WHEN THE SUNTYNE SOWS THE SEED
As sown with the modern Suntyne, showing the even distri-
bution of the seed on a compacted seed-bed, and to a uniform
depth, covered with a mulch of pulverized soil.
Wf,
As sown with the older type of drill, showing the seed covered
unevenly, and in the wrong position to derive full advantage
from the subsoil moisture.
View ot the great clearance between ranks of tynes, and the
excellent draught arrangement. The famous Sunflex jointed
floats and Sunshine perfectly-tempered, non-slipping tynes
reduce tyne-breakage to a minimum.
MODERATE
PRICES
Ask the local agent, or write to the nearest
branch for descriptive catalogue, and
USE A SUNTYNE
LIBERAL
TERMS
FOR BIGGER YIELDS AND LONGER WEAR
H. V. McKAY
MASSEY HARRIS PTY., LTD.
maSSEY HARRIS
SUNSHINE HARVESTER WORKS,
SUNSHINE.
Branches at 654-664 Bourke St., Melbourne; 2 7-39 Broadway, Sydney; 95-97 North Terrace, Adelaide; Corner Murray and
King Sts., Perth. Queensland Distributors: H. V. McKay Massey Harris (Q’land) Pty., Ltd., Stanley St., South Brisbane.


A New Leather
in a New Shape
The new crinkle grain leather
featured in a smart rounded
toe is the latest addition to
Abbey’s Footwear Stock.
This leather is made for hard,
tough wear, and will polish
like a fine calf.
Made in a Dark Brown colour
and stocked in full and half
sizes.
Price, 29/6.
Write for a Catalogue.
ABBEY SHOES
316 George St., 224 Pitt St.,
Sydney.
Telegraphic Address:
“ABBEY BOOTS, SYDNEY."
sadf
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish to succeed
—THINK OF
sadf
oil
CD
m rn
&
m
■mes*
PERSONAL
ATTENTION
“SPENSHAW” WOOL-DUSTING MACHINE
(PATENTED).
Why pay freight and charges on dirt, when it can be safely
and economically removed with a “SPENSHAW before
it is pressed and sent on an expensive journey to market?
—Buyers don’t pay for dirt.
SCOURERS Using "SPENSHAW” Machines save labour, liquor, time,
and give clients a BETTER PRODUCT.
BLENDERS Why continue hand-blending? The “SPENSHAW” does
it better and quicker.
BUYERS Buy “SPENSHAW” Willeyed Wool—because they know
that the staple has not been damaged, and with the sand,
dust and vegetable fault removed, the margin of error in
the “Yield” is reduced to a minimum resulting in full
market value FOR THE GROWER.
“SPENSHAW” Machines installed at the North Western Woollen Mills, Stawell,
Victoria- Jandacot Scour, Western Australia; Merriwa Contracting Co., Sydney;
Warrnambool Woollen Mills, Victoria; Foster and Co., Hindmarsh, S.A.; Phoenix
Wool Company, Pty., Geelong; William Smith, Geelong; R. M. Duncan, Pootscray,
Victoria- Henshaw Jackson, Port Adelaide; Kinchega Station, Broken Hill; R. M.
Fowler, Fremantle, W.A.; Whakatu Scour, Hastings, N.Z.
For full particulars write the proprietors
Frank Young Woolwilleyers Co., Ltd.,
22 King William Street, ADELAIDE.
k
The Razor that Really Shaves
Selected Steel, Black Handle 12/6 ; with guard, 16/-
Extra Quality Steel, Xylo. Handle .. 15/6 ; with guard, 19/
Superfine Steel, Ivory Handle 21/-; with guard, 24/6
Strongly-made, grained leather case free with each razor.
THE PLUM RAZOR GUARD, for fin., 2in. and fin.
blades, 3/6 post free.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney.
THE PIV\
[7-day sets (7 razors in
oak case) ; Black, 85/
Xylo 100/-
Ivory 140/-
All post free.
Guard extra.
Plum Razors are in two
widths, Jin. and Jin.
All are set ready for
use, guaranteed, and
kept in order for two
years free of charge.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original
zlZeZz/n.
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/8, post free.
country. The horses had to be artifi-
cially fed and the sheep would have done
better in the west on gidya.
Many graziers who have tried the
coastal areas as relief country wouldn’t
do so again if they were given agistment
free.
Dry v. Wet Pickling.
“Stump Jump” : In wheat areas copper-
carbonate dusting is universal now,
mainly because it can be done in the
one operation with grading. Improved
machines will take out any oats or barley
as well. Dry-dusted wheat can be kept
indefinitely, as the dusting not only does
not injure the grain but protects it from
infestation. Any left over can be fed
sparingly to poultry or pigs, provided it
has not been overdusted. Dusting
should not be at the rate of more than
to the bushel; loz. is the normal
requirement.
A good home-made pickier can be
built out of a 40gal. oil-drum ; a solid
bar or pipe piercing it centrally provides
a pivot if mounted on two posts. A
chute door may then be fitted, held in
place by wooden guides or soldered
strips of iron. It should shut against the
inside of the rim. Two hooks below the
rim will hold the bag for emptying.
When the wheat and measured carbonate
have been put in, a couple of dozen
turns of the tumbling drum will do the
dusting job.
Close all cracks—the dust is a killer
in human lungs.
As for wet pickling. A sudden storm
prevented me sowing Wheat I had for-
malined to use next day. This meant
three days’ delay. The result was about
two wheat plants per acre. Bluestone is
not nearly as severe, but it’s not hard on
the smut either. Dry dusting beats both
wet methods.
If paddocks show no sign of smut
pickling can be omitted every second
crop.
Anyone who hasn’t a grader or pickier
should have little trouble securing the
services of a travelling outfit that wiil
hustle the job through before the carting
in, at a cost of roughly Is. per bag.
Sweet Clover.
“Bogaduck”: Two years ago I put in
patches of sub. clover, Wimmera rye,
evening primrose, lucerne and sweet
clover on my scrub block in S.A., with
some Kikuyu on a near-by sandy bracken
patch. My farm lies in the 20in.-24in.
rainfall belt and most of the fall is in
winter. The soil is a light, loose sandy
loam, and in its virgin state carries dense
blue-gum, pink-gum, manna-gum and
tree honeysuckle, with odd patches of
blackwood and a dense underbrush of
bracken, yacca and wattle. There are
hundreds of thousands of acres of
similar country lying undeveloped at the
bottom end of S:A. and in western Vic.
In the two years since the plots were
laid down the sub. clover and rye grass
have made good winter and early spring
growth, the evening primrose has shown
itself a useful summer fodder, and on the
sandpatch the Kikuyu is living up to its
reputation as a bracken-strangler. This
season the lucerne patch has had two
cuts taken off it and is ready for a
third. The sweet clover, however, has
been the real surprise.
For the first season its growth was on
a par with that of the lucerne. This
year it has run up to a height of 4ft.
and is flowering and seeding heavily. I
have tried bunches of it on sheep and
cattle, and both appear to relish it.
Hot winds have burnt the lucerne out
at times ; but sweet clover stands up like
a Trojan. Yet I cannot find anybody
round my way who has so much as
tried it out, though in the U.S.A. Middle
West it is one of the most popular
of fodders. Nebraska has a million acres
of it.
Growing Sub. Clover.
“Ghanam”: Sub. clover does so well
on good soils that many think studying
its habits isn’t worth while; but there’s
as much difference between well-grown
s.c. and the poorly-nourished stuff as
there is between Greta Garbo and Queen
Annie of Innamincka.
It does well on sandy soils, making
quick feed after autumn rains, though
on this type of land, if there is a dry
spring, it may take a Bernard O’Reilly
to find it in early summer. It doesn’t
do so well on clay loams, but on ordi-
nary loams it makes good winter growth.
It stands poor soil better than most
fodders, and it doesn’t resent a heavy
dose of lime in it's diet.
Super, is its caviare. It is a whale for
“water soluble” phosphate. An appli-
cation of per acre has been
known to increase yields of herbage by
from 60 p.c. to 75 p.c. in the. year of
application, with a further improvement
of up to 45 p.c. the year after.
At Kybybolite State Farm (S.A.) —S.A.
is sub. clover’s natal State —901 b. super,
per acre every year has built up a couple
of mixed grass-s.c. fields from carrying
1.41 sheep per acre to carrying 4.27
sheep.
Normally, s.c. sheep country should
have about 901 b. super, to the acre,
mixed farms 1121 b. to 1301 b. and dairy-
ing country a bag to the acre. Now is
the time to put fertiliser down, and the
job can be carried on till June. Seed
can go in till the end of April. Seed
and super, should be well mixed, and the
tilth should make for a firm soil surface.
Mixed with rye (101 b.) up to 61b. seed
can be sown on rich land.
Hints for the Farm.
“Gumblegubbin”: The gum of the
leopard tree, whitewood and some of
the acacias, mixed with one part water
to two parts gum, with a little alcohol
to prevent fermentation, makes a good
sticker that keeps for years. Pine-tree
resin mixed with methylated spirit or
alcohol is another. With the addition
of turpentine it becomes a first-rate
varnish.
•“Whalebone”: When branding sheep,
to prevent the branding-iron from trans-
ferring excess branding-fluid and caus-
ing a smudged or illegible imprint, put a
pad of wool in the container and keep it
barely immersed.
“Horsetailer”: Try this on the rabbits:
Boil |lb. white arsenic in lgal. water
and pour into a kerosene-tin two-fifths
filled with wheat. Add sugar and as much
water as possible after the grain has
swelled and reboil for two or three hours.
Make sure there are no straggling stock
in the paddock before laying by hand
in a good sweeping furrow.
“Bib”: Latest garden denizen and erst-
while good citizen to “go bush” is a rela-
tion of the respectable parsley family,
fennel. It thus joins the ranks of those
other outlaws the blackberry, prickly-
pear, horehound and St. John’s wort, all
of which were, imported and once care-
fully tended in gardens. That lovely
sinner the water-hyacinth and the deco-
rative lantana were both cultivated as
garden plants ; they came originally from
S. America. “Capeweed” was probably
introduced among ballast or fodder, the
same media being blamed for the advent
of many burrs and thistles. This under-
the-lap migration is not entirely one-
sided : nearly 50 varieties of Australian
flora have been counted in the vicinity
of wool-scouring plants in England, but
the behavior of the antipodeans is so far
impeccable.
“Alpha”: Overstocking, as somebody
recently suggested, may kill Mitchell and
Flinders grass—if the overstocking
occurs in the yards, where the beasts
hooves tear up roots complete. A chance
to seed will overcome the worst ravages
in a heavily-overstocked paddock. Even
Bunny can’t eliminate such grasses alto-
gether, and it is never his habit to study
the future. But, as it happens, the dis-
appearance of various native grasses is
due indirectly to him. Simply, the bal-
ance of Nature depended on the fertili-
sation of most of these grasses by the
native bee, and poisoning has killed this
useful worker in millions.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
How much lime should be used to the acie
to counteract sorrel? —5029. .
Experience in Vic. has shown that lime
of little or no use for controlling sorrel by
altering soil acidity, but where lime and s P ■
are known to stimulate pasture growth sorrel
will be crowded out of a pasture by the vigorous
growth of the pasture species. A species oi
sorrel ( R. acetosa ) which occurs m Tas. but
not in Vic. is stated to be lime intolerant and
lime is recommended by the Tas. Agra-
Department for controlling it. General y, P
dressing with super, will bring about the oe-
sired competition from pasture speci >
cropping land, summer fallowing, wi .
tion during the hot months to expose the rogs
to the sun, will kill out a good deal of the
sorrel.


Vt*<
"W
. >. *:
f,'J
....... J'\\
m
% 8 i ■ '"V
• •••>.' : '. .
m:x
$3
>k ■!
■M
\I
\. m.%
r-.s
i ig >.
i i
m 1
Sl*,
v- jsgm v *
1 ' M f i
ii
1 f t
m
? }
l" : '
*'> \ \
W:
. i
V'
**
I
. •'-4 Sv
a
: V\
m
W
*
s,
A v
# 4 **
4
\
v
A HARVEST OF RICH, RIPE OATS
... on its way to build stamina
and radiant health, in the famous
form of Tooheys Oatmeal Stout.
Just as nice off the ice.
TDUHtW
OffIUKAUTOUT
E
ORIGINALS
i? 3
BHEWED & SQTTL£*>
kvT, TOOHEYS vj
/ f
A
c
f /'
if ~ ~?rJWltllM|Mfflif?L7.. ” . iH
--; *k ’
"v
f («
x<4*
VlCTORlA—Goldsbrougb, Mort & Co., Ltd., Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND—Burns, Rhilp & Co., Ltd., Brisbane.
CENTRAL Q’LAND —Dalgety & Co., Ltd., Rockhampton.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA—DaItcety & Co., Ltd., Adelaide,
TOQHEYS, LTD., STANDARD BREWERY, SYDNEY,
WESTERN AUSTRALIA—MiIne & Co., Perth.
TASMANIA—Ferguson & Co. Pty., Ltd., Hobart.
Northern Agencies Pty., Ltd., Launceston.


ADAMS’ (TATTERSALL’S) HOTEL,
259 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 484 GEORGE STREET.
Rooms, 6/- and 8/- per day; Breakfast, Table d’Hote or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE PUBLIC DINING ROOMS.
Lunch from 12 noon (Sunday, 12.45 p.m.), Din. ner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday, 5.45 p.m.).
Tables or Seats may be reserved by ’Phone, M 4601.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman); W. H. Hart, Esq.; J. Ryan, sq.,
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq.. O.M.G.
General Manager— M. G. HAYMEN.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory) Melbourne, Sydney, and
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N- S. Wales, ako rep
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia aac * u
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banning business.
Our Service Department
Wants.
Wanted partner in well-developed goldmine,
reef 4in. to 12in., 2oz. to soz. per ton, sul-
phides very rich, 60 by 40 block ready for
stoping, estimated to contain £l5OO worth of
g01d.—5163.
Station bookkeeper-overseer (30), N.S.W.,
single, accountant, with knowledge of store-
keeping and trading, well educated, wants posi-
tion in Islands. Refs.—sl7B.
Clerk and journalist (52), Sydney, would give
part-time services, accounts, correspondence or
salesmanship, in return for home, city or
country. —5106.
Midle-aged man, Sydney, exp. wheat- and
sheep-farming, good mechanic, wants station
work. —5079.
English words of the song “La Paloma.” —
5129.
Oildriller (M.L.), British, cadetship served
with major company, subsequent wide exp. in
responsible positions, seeks improved position.
—5146.
To buy Papuan stamps, especially early issues,
old envelopes bearing Papuan stamps and
Queensland stamps used in B.N.G. —5176.
To buy or exchange back numbers of
“Nash’s Magazine” (English).—slos.
Information Sought.
(1) Is it true that the world’s longest bare-
knuckle fight took place in Australia ? If so,
particulars? (2) Where and when was the
longest glove contest staged, who were the
principals and who won? —5139.
(1) Yes. James Kelly and Jonathan Smith
fought at Fiery Creek, near Daylesford (Vic.),
for six hours 15 minutes in November, 1855.
The match was drawn. (2) At New Orleans
on April 6, 1893, when Andy Bowen and Jack
Burke fought 110 rounds (seven hours 19
minutes) to a draw.
sft jfc jfc
(1) Dimensions of the landing wheels of a big
passenger ’plane ? (2) Do flying boats have
wheels ? —5075.
(1) Vary according to the size and design
of the aircraft. The largest passenger aircraft
in service in Australia, the Douglas, has land-
ing wheels of a diameter of 42-j-in. (2) Those
known as amphibian aircraft have wheels.
* * * *
(1) If it were possible for an aeroplane to
travel at the speed of sound, would a stationary
observer hear any sound emitted by the ’plane?
(2) Would the passengers hear the noise of the
engine ? —5068.
(1) A stationary observer located directly be-
hind the ’plane would hear no sound, as the
’plane would be travelling in the opposite direc-
tion to, and at the same speed as, the sound
waves. A stationary observer located directly
ahead of the ’plane would hear the sound
emitted by the ’plane, but the pitch, to him,
would appear to be twice as high as the actual
pitch. (2) Yes; irrespective of any degree of
speed.
•i* H 4
Is h.p., as applied to motor-cars, calculated
from the same formula in U S.A. and England
as in Australia ? If so, what formula is em-
ployed ? —5116.
In Great Britain the R.A.C. formula is
used. This assumes that all cars will deliver
their rated power at a piston speed of 1000 ft.
per min., that the mean effective pressure in
the cylinder will average 901 b. per sq. in., and
that the mechanical efficiency will average 75
p.c. This being so, the R.A.C. rating will
equal the product of the number of cylinders
and the diameter of the pistons, squared,
divided by 2.5. For example, a four-cylinder
engine having 3in. pistons will deliver a h.p. of
3 x 3 x 4 or 36 divided by 2.5, equals 14.40
h.p. In the U.S.A. actual b.h.p., as ascertained
in a bench test, is quoted, with the result, in
these days of high-speed, high-compression
engines, that there is a vast discrepancy in
rating of English and American engines of
similar power. In Australia the rating follows
the practice in the country of manufacture.
* * * *
What are the qualifications for a yacht-
master’s ticket? Are exams, held in Sydney,
and where can candidates be coached? —5012.
Examinations are held in Sydney for certifi-
cate of master of a British yacht, and for
certificate of master of an Australian yacht.
Primary qualifications are command and sole
ownership of a seagoing pleasure yacht and
an age of not less than 23. Subjects for ex-
amination, which is both written and oral,
are contained in the Statutory Rules for
Examination of Masters and Mates, obtainable
at the offices of the Commonwealth Naviga-
tion Service, Customs House, Circular Quay,
Sydney. Candidates are prepared for these
exams, at Sydney Nautical School, the Royal
Exchange, Bridge-street, Sydney.
* * * *
About 16 years ago a Melbourne college
awarded a prize of £25 for a long poem on
Gallipoli. How did the prize originate, what
were the conditions, who judged it, who won it
and was the poem published? —sl79.
The prize was given by the Presbyterian
Ladies’ College, Melbourne, in memory of
Rupert Brooke, for a poem of not less than 150
nor more than 300 lines by an Australian writer.
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
The winner was the late David McKee Wright,
of The Bulletin, whose poem was published
in The Bulletin September 2, 1920. The
judges were Prof. Wallace, Dr. Archibald
Strong and president of Shakspeare Society
Oliphant.
* * * *
(1) What is pulverised coal and by what pro-
cess is it made ? (2) Does its use reduce fuel
costs ? (3) Can it be used without the instal-
lation of special machinery? —sl6s.
(1) It is coal ground to a fine dust in a pul-
veriser. (2) Yes, by as much as 16 p.c., and
there is also a saving in labor costs. (3) It is
generally necessary to fit a special furnace
front. There is a system with burners specially
adapted for either oil or pulverised fuel.
H*
(1) Particulars of the Bunsen cell? (2) Who
invented it? (3) Voltage of two cells con-
nected together? (4) Its uses? —5131.
(1) It consists of an outer stoneware jar
containing a cylinder of amalgamated zinc, in-
side of which is a jar of porous earthenware
containing a carbon rod. The outer jar is filled
with sulphuric acid diluted with water, and
the inner one with strong commercial nitric
acid. Its voltage is 1.9 and internal resistance
0.3 to 0.06 ohms, depending upon size, etc. (2)
(2) Robert Wilhelm von Bunsen (1811-99),
German chemist and professor at Cassel, Mar-
burg and Heidelberg. (3) 1.9 volts when
joined in parallel and 3.8 when joined in series.
(4) It is sometimes used for plating very small
objects, but because of its disagreeable fumes
and strong acids it has been largely replaced by
other types, such as the Leclanche.
Jje ijc
Up-to-date method of treating auriferous
antimonial ore with a view to recovering both
metals ? —5115.
No really satisfactory process is known for
the full recovery of both gold and antimony
from complex ores; in recovery of the one there
is usually heavy loss of the other. The gold
in antimony ores often occurs in the quartz
and not in the antimony sulphide, in which
cases the ore is heated to red heat to remove
the antimony and the gold is recovered from
the residue by amalgamation or cyanidation.
The antimony may be recovered either as
oxide or sulphide, according to whether the
heating of the ore is carried out in an oxidising
or a reducing atmosphere.
* * * =t=
(1) Voltage of the nickel-iron type of storage
battery ? Q) Composition of the electrolyte ?
(3) Its specific gravity? (4) Advantages of this
type of cell? (5) Any agent in Sydney? —
5092.
(1) 1.2 volts down to 1 volt per cell. (2)
An alkaline solution of specially-prepared potas-
sium hydroxide and lithium hydroxide dissolved
in distilled water. (3) Approximately 1.2 at
60deg. F., when taken half-hour after charge
to allow for dissipation of gas. The gravity
does not change during the charge or discharge
to any extent. (4) Light in weight, strong in
construction and not subject to sulphation or
buckling. As against this its voltage is lower
than that of the lead-type cell. (5) C. M. Terry,
Ltd., 115 Pitt-street, Sydney.
*-f*, . . # .
How many people in Australia were bitten by
snakes in 1935 and 1936, and how many died
as a result ? —5057.
No means of ascertaining the number of
snakebite cases. Hospital records do not in-
clude cases treated outside by doctors or
ambulance officers. There were seven deaths
in 1934 and 11 in 1935. Figures for 1936
have not yet been compiled.
* * * *
Are synthetic resins for plastic manufacture
obtainable in Australia, and, if so, where? —
4982.
Suppliers of cast synthetic resins and syn-
thetic resin moulding powders are O. H. O’Brien
(Sydney), 39 Pitt-street; Scott and Holladay,
Ltd., 35 Clarence-street; and A. S. Harrison
and Co., 85 Clarence-street —all Sydney.
* * * *
Is there an award covering clerks in N.S.W. ?
I am 18, employed by a garage and service
station, and do the books and all clerical work.
—4992.
If you are engaged in the area covered by
the award you are bound by the Clerks’ (Met-
ropolitan) Award, published on December 21,
1934, as varied on December 4, 1936, copy of
which may be obtained on application to the
Department of Labor and Industry, Sydney;
cost, 9d., including postage. If you are
outside the area, you are covered by the
Clerks’ (Country) Award, published on
October 18, 1935, as varied on December 4,
1936, copy of which may also be obtained at
cost of 9d., including postage. Rate of pay
depends on experience and date of entering the
industry.
* * * *
(1) How is electroplating done? (2) Could a
living be made with a portable plating plant,
canvassing from house to house in N.S.W.
country towns ? (3) If so, cost and weight of
plant ? —5045.
(1) The article is placed in a solution of a
salt of the metal with which it is to be plated,
together with an anode, usually consisting of a
piece of the same metal. On passing a current
of electricity from the anode through the solu-
tion to the article the latter becomes coated
with the metal obtained from the solution.
Process explained in Electro-Plating, a “Work”
Handbook, price 2s. 6d. from leading book-
sellers. (2) Very doubtful. Cost of plant would
be considerable, and it would not pay to run
the machine unless a certain minimum plating
surface could be guaranteed. (3) For particu-
lars and cost, write Laurence Smith and Co.,
109 Bathurst-street, Sydney.
* * * *
(1) What is the “raw vegetable diet” for the
treatment of chronic rheumatism ? (2) Is it
effective ? —4837.
(1) Diet consists of raw vegetables, fruits,
nuts, crushed oats, sugar (one lump daily), salad
oil, cream, milk and fluids. No salt is allowed.
(2) Too early to say; but one authority, Dr.
D. C. Hare, reports good results with eight
out of twelve patients in from one to four
weeks. Cases of muscular rheumatism and
synovitis, uncomplicated by joint changes, re-
sponded most satisfactorily; there was decrease
in pain, stiffness and swelling. The benefit
was quickly noticeable, and commenced in some
cases as early as the fourth day.
* * * *
(1) What diseases may be attributed to the
consumption of impure milk ? (2) Can milk be
rendered harmless as a source of infection ?
4615.
(1) Typhoid fever, diphtheria, tuberculosis,
scarlet fever, certain varieties of sore throat,
summer diarrhoea of infants and some dysen-
teric complaints in adults. (2) Yes, by pasteuri-
sation. This causes a slight “cooked” taste, and
destroys the anti-scurvy vitamin C, which can
be replaced by using orange-juice. Milk must
be kept chilled after pasteurisation.
* * * *
My hair is very thin at the back of my head,
on the top and also round the sides. Is there
any way of thickening the growth ? 1 am 18.
—4853.
Unless the loss of hair has followed some
serious illness (after which the growth of hair
is often resumed) the outlook is not favorable.
Baldness in a young person is largely con-
ditioned by hereditary factors, but is aggravated
by the infection of the scalp which produces
dandruff. Shampoo head twice weekly with
soft soap and dry well. Regular and vigorous
massage of scalp is helpful.
* $ * *
(1) What are the symptoms of inward goitre?
(2) Treatment in case of a woman of 50 ? (3)
Would an operation be advisable? —4888.
(1) Inward goitre is not a recognised medi-
cal term. A goitre, besides producing obstruc-
tive effects by pressure on the windpipe and
gullet, may cause disordered heart action,
tremor, protrusion of the eyeballs, sweating
and nervousness. (2) All patients so suffering
require rest in bed and medical supervision.
Sedatives and iodine in various forms are fre-
quently employed in treatment. (3) Necessity
for operation is a matter for expert medical
opinion, and depends on close observation of
the individual patient.
* * * *
How to avoid and cure sunburn ? —4927.
If the skin is fair, wear a large hat. Be-
fore exposing the skin to the sun, cover it well
with a thick layer of cold cream. If sun-
burning occurs, cover the burnt areas with cold
compresses of a saturated solution of boric
acid, then dab the skin dry and powder well.
Calamine lotion is also soothing. If your skin
burns and blisters without tanning, be careful
not to overdo exposure to sunlight; it is dan-
gerous.
* * * *
(1) What is the condition in human beings
to which the medical term “allergy” is applied?
(2) Can it be effectively treated ? —5020.
(1) Many human beings are specifically sensi-
tive to certain substances in their diet, environ-
ment or in the air, and may react to these by
the development of severe symptoms. These
so-called allergic reactions include skin-rashes,
attacks of asthma or hay fever and grave con-
stitutional disturbances. The substances to
which sufferers may be thus sensitive include
almost every type of plant or animal product.
(2) Immense relief can now be given by injec-
tion in graduated doses of extracts made from
the irritant producing the signs and symptoms.
It is most important that the patient should
avoid contact with the actual excitant.
s** . $
(1) Nature of the malady known as Addi-
son’s disease? (2) Signs and symptoms? (3)
Treatment ? —5027.
(1) A condition affecting the suprarenal (or
adrenal) glands, two small bodies lying one
above each kidney. The common cause is
tuberculosis of these glands, usually secondary
to a tuberculous infection elsewhere in the
body. Cancer in the glands is destructive of
the tissue and produces the same results. (2)
There is an increasing bronzing of the skin,
accompanied by great weakness and exhaus-
tion. The blood pressure falls and there is
anaemia, with disturbance of vision and of all
the special senses. (3) Modern treatment by
means of suitable glandular extracts has given
promising results.
* * * *
I suffer from sore lips during winter. Any
means of preventing blisters forming, and how
should blisters be treated? —4975.
Bathe with very hot water when symptoms
of irritation appear. Then apply collodion to
affected part.
* * * *
Composition of a green paint with a white-
lead base ? —5OBO.
Strong Brunswick green, light or middle
shade, lib., white lead 41b., barytes as required,
raw linseed oil 4-pint. If deep Brunswick is
used add a little orange chrome to correct the
blue tone.
:Js ❖
Aboriginal names meaning “running water,”
“plenty water,” “good camping-ground,”
“good river,” etc.? —5107.
Adjunbilly, “creek of permanent water ;
Aldunga, “plenty of trees and water”; Allow-
rie, “bubbling water”; Aloomba, “spring”;
Barwon, “great wide river”; Belbourie,
“brushy creeks”; Beltana, “running water”;
Billeroy, “running creek”; Binda, “deep
water”; Bingara, “creek”; Boonduabbi, “good
watering-place”; Broula, “trickling water .;
Bulgerup, “running stream”; Burren, “big
creek”; Caleen, “fresh water”; Carawa,
“creek’’’; Dandalup, “watering-place” ; Elouera,
“near the sea” and “good camping-ground”;
Goonegal-ba, “plenty of water”; Gundamain,
“house on a stream”; Maneela, “winding
river”; Morialta, “ever flowing”; Tirranna,
“running water”; Waidup, ’’water all
summer”; Ulooloo, “a continuous and per-
manent stream”; Wallerawang, “plenty _or
water”; Wyong, “running water”; Birriai -
rung, “water running through trees and
shadows”; Yerjer, “plenty water”; Yagobie,
“large river”; Mulgowrie, “place for water.
Brief Answers.
W.W.T.: Write Benjamin N. Fryer, hon.
sec., Australian Limited Editions Soc., Herald
Building, 66 Pitt-street, Sydney... .W.H.G.W.:
(1) Deci is the abbreviation of the Latin deci-
mus, tenth, and is frequently used as a prefix,
as in decimal and decimate, and throughout the
French metric system. (2) Decibel has been used
as a feminine name, signifying tenth child....
H.G.: King Solomon succeeded his father on
the throne of Israel 974 b.c., and reigned until
937 b.c C.T.: There would be no plagiar-
ism in such a case G.F.8.: (1) Result of
the fifth Test match proved that Bradman’s
judgment was sound in not closing the innings.
(2) There is no record of a first innings having
been closed in order to reap such advantage.
In the second Test at Sydney, England
closed the first innings to get Australia on a
bad wicket —an entirely different thing....
R. : Under the provisions of the Common-
wealth Income Tax Assessment Act 1936, all
persons whose annual incomes do not exceed
£250 are exempt from Federal tax. Under the
provisions of the S.A. Income Tax Assessment
Act 1936, the exemption is £lOO, but income
from Commonwealth bonds is not subject to
S. tax W.H.F.: Does not appear to be a
case in which assistance could be obtained
through the Legal Aid Department; however,
you could write to the department, Queen’s-
square, Sydney. A local solicitor could be con-
sulted as to how your interests could best be
protected... .W.N.: Unless you can show that
the amount in question was deducted by your
Westralian employer and paid to the Taxation
Department you will have to pay it L.W.:
Scores in the International Rugby Union Cham-
pionship matches, 1927-28, were: Ireland 13
(three tries, two converted) defeated Wales 10
(two tries, two converted), at Cardiff; France
8 (two tries, one converted) defeated Wales 3
(one try), at Paris. 1929-30: England 11 (two
tries, one converted, one penalty goal) de r
feated Wales 6 (one try, one penalty), at Cardiff;
Wales 11 (one try, two dropped goals) defeated
France nil, at Paris; France 5 (one try, con-
verted) defeated Ireland nil, at Belfast; Ireland
4 (one dropped goal) defeated England 3
(one try), at Dublin A. 8.: (1) Richard Cun-
ningham was the member of Major Mitchell’s
exploring party who, becoming detached from
his companions, was killed by blacks near the
Bogan River, April, 1835. He was a botanist,
and a brother of Allan Cunningham. His bones
were afterwards discovered, and a monument
erected on the scene. (2) Dandaloo in aboriginal
dialect means “hail”; it is improbable that the
place-name is of French origin... .A.H.R.:
The first flight between England and Australia
was that of Capt. Ross Smith, Lieut. Keith
Smith and Sergts. J. M. Bennett and W. H.
Shiers, in December, 1919, in a Vickers-Vimy
machine... .J.R.: To the Pioneers, by Alex.
Melrose (Preece and Sons, Adelaide, 25.)....
A.C.H.: Theoretically, under steady conditions,
there would be no difference in the registration.
At such an angle, however, there is usually
considerable turbulence, often resulting in a
slightly reduced registration P.W.S.: May
be had from John Sands and Co., 374 George-
street, Sydney, 6d. each L.R.: There would
be no liability under the N.S.W. Workers’ Com-
pensation Act to effect a policy of insurance
or indemnity covering the worker N.F.:
James Tyson, born at the Cowpastures, near
Camden (N.S.W.), April 11, 1823, died on his
Felton run, near Cambooya (Q.), December 4,
1898. His estate realised about two and a
half millions A.J.D.: S.S. Meeinderry
collided with S.S. Wallsend off Red Head
and sank inside the southern breakwater,
Newcastle, on May 23, 1922. She was
refloated about two weeks later... .N.M.G.:
Write David Moore, editor “Dog World of
Australasia,” 16 Bridge-street, Sydney
T. : Stewart and Stuart are merely vari-
ations in spelling of the same name. Same
pronunciation.... .R.H.W.: It should be worth
that to a dealer; more to a collector R.8.L.:
Write Secretary Air Board, Defence Depart-
ment, Melbourne... .J.M.: Description sug-
gests that the nervous condition which was the
original cause of the shingles still persists and
that medical examination is advisable. A lotion
of 6oz. calamine and 1 drachm carbolic acid
may relieve the skin irritation if applied to the
affected parts with cotton-w 001... .N.G.8.: If
you are sure of your facts and can support
them by evidence you should write to the
Under-Secretary, Lands Department, Loftus-
street, Sydney, requesting an inquiry A.E.H. :
Do not know the game, but from your de-
scription should think it constitutes a wager and
would therefore be illegal... .D.M.8.: If you
contemplate merely sending him a letter
through a solicitor demanding payment of the
debt he will not have to pay the legal cost
incurred. If you take the matter to court and
judgment is given against him, an order for
the payment of professional costs and costs of
court will be made... .L.J.T.: (1) Anthony
Hordern and Sons, Brickfield Hill, Sydney ; or
any large firm of grocers in the capital cities.
(2) Sold in tins containing 561 b.; price 9s. 6d.
per tin. Also in lib. and 21b. tins. (3) 561 b.
tins, and casks containing variable quantities
which are not listed but are quoted on
request by firms supplying T.M.: (1)
None, unless you sell milk to be taken off
the premises for consumption. Apply to
the Milk Board, Commonwealth Bank Build-
ing, Martin-place, Sydney. (2) Everything
must be scrupulously clean and open to inspec-
tion by Health Department officers at any
time; refuse bins must be kept cleared and
cleaned, no rats or other pests must be on the
premises or able to gain access, food must
be screened from flies and dirt, and no food
adulteration is permitted. (3) Depends entirely
on the owners; it is usual to be asked for bank
or business references or a substantial deposit
against the rent... .(Many others mailed.)


REDUCE YOUR
WAIST!
Waistline bulge leads
to weakened, abdom-
inal sagging, often
causing morbid and
dangerous changes in
the position of the
vital organs.
The GOVERNA
HEALTH BELT will
bring your figure
back to normal. It re-
stores vigorous health
and virile alertness.
It is supremely com-
fortable and gives to
your every movemenl
like a well - fitting
glove. Supports cor-
rectly the delicate
organs, and, by its
gentle, changing pressure, waistline bulge
is eliminated with every move you make.
TRY THE GOVERNA
BELT FOR 7 DAYS AT
OUR EXPENSE
In 7 days, your waistline will be 3 inches
smaller 3 inches of bulge and strain gone
OR NO COST. Write at once for full
details of FREE TRIAL OFFER and illus-
trated folder describing the GOVERNA
HEALTH BELT. Mention this paper.
Enclose 2d. in stamps for postage.
GOVERNA BELT COMPANY,
232-6 Castlereagh St., SYDNEY.
sadf
gsgggssg
' ■f v’:" ... i V v '| jgt
..
, £«**?s * Vk <% v "vft^l v <
§ j
Sra?s& : S*. ;: : : i
• ■ ...
" ;■ '<:">,... <C.* k
,<v '* V>,
HI
SHSSS g&S'iss*!
HI ' ■
wSkmm
CSSSsSSSkK?
Hi
lllMMl
K/Z'/T// X
The long needed problem of a floor covering combining dura-
bility, beauty and economy is luxuriously solved by Feltex.
For sample cards and beautifully illustrated folder
write to Box 3281 PP, G.P.0., Sydney.
OBTAINABLE AT ALL GOOD FURNISHING STORES
■ . • ' ■ K
GUARANTEED MOTHPROOF FOR LIFE
ESTABLISHED 1834.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP '. £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4,300,000 0 0
(Used wholly in the business)
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
Directors:
James Ashton (Chairman), Edward R. Knox, Owen E. Friend,
Sir Wm. Vicars, C.8.E., Orwell Phillips.
General Manager: C. Darvall.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout:
New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, South Australia,
and at Canberra, Federal Territory.
Agents throughout the World.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
E.F. : Its previous publication outs it
Te Riki: Flower-show sketch has humor, but
only in patches M.A.: Those lost dentures
conjured up only a faint grin... .A.V.H.: Good
psychological study, but harping too much on
5ex....Q.: You pile on coincidences too
thickly... . K.W.8.: Wrong market for stories
with American settings and phrases; also yours
say nothing Aotearoa: Try a M.L. daily
A.E.K.: Too slight... .Z.V.W.: Fair, but
doesn’t quite make it J.W.: Those boys
are the dinkum thing, but the sketch form
is as unsuitable as the column idea; couldn’t
you put them into a short story? M.D.:
That yarn was, told years ago... .H.E.S.:
Doesn’t say enough C. MacP.: Caveman
crudity at end spoiled an otherwise fair effort.
C.J.T.: Planetary fantasy now flying back-
wards ... .R.T.: Good idea spoiled... .Jasper:
Sketch misSes, but only by a whisker or so.
.... J.McN.M.: It wasn’t the way you’ve told
it, but the story itself which caused its second
rejection; try another... .H.F.: Turf sketch
didn’t get away to a good start P. 8.:
English knights; hunting fields; bellowdrammer
—4O years too late and a hemisphere out of
your course... .8.F.: As a play it might be
even more lachrymose than “East Lynne”
D.H.G. (Eng.): Unexplained Eastern mysticisms
don’t interest us L.T.: Melodramatic out-
burst more suitable for burlesque K.F.C.:
Men. don’t marry dying women after an hour’s
acquaintance.. . .C.L.R.: It smacks of life,
but the unrelieved tragedy is depressing....
R.F.8.: Afraid you’re wasting paper and ink
if “Balm in Gilead” is a fair sample of your
breezing “along to halcyon years”... .C.J.T.:
Some point in it, but little craftsmanship....
F C.; Shows a good spirit without much
originality.... J.W.A.: Fails to live up to the
piquant heading... .8.T.: “Dead Trees” as
lifeless as the subject 8.5.: “Can’t You
Tell It’s Summer?” received. But it’s autumn.
O.B.: Saddening 5.R.8.: Don’t want
poems about shipwrecks that happened 25
years ago... .D.E.8.: Try it on the hero him-
self. We can’t conceive that any newspaper
would print it... .8.C.T.: Unacceptable....
C.G.: The misprint is so obvious that few
would give it a second thought A.V.N.: It
might do for a lady’s album M.C.W.: Dis-
orderly verse K.M.: Magazinish G.L.8.:
Yours the same... .F.G.: Naomi off our beat;
the other just misses S.F.L.: Try it on a
flapper weekly L.T.: Not yet S.E.H.:
Done as a brief sketch it might get through.
—C.D.: A long way out for this market.
—A.H.: Doubt if “the village laureate’s ode”
could be any worse than the story... .P.T.:
No room on the bill for the “whistling” bari-
tone... .F.R.: The office boy solved that
murder after reading the first page.... C.T.L.:
No space to tell in detail how the cert, went
down by half a head... .L. 0.: For the third
time, that tramp can’t sleep here... .H.T.W.:
No place for your “lovelorn lad,” either
F.S.: Not interested in your “tales of the early
Britons”... .C.D.: The idea’s there, but you
don’t succeed with it H.T.H.: Con Drew
did that, and made it sparkle.-.. .M.V.: Not
the faintest interest in that “genius” T.W.:
It’s already been “consigned to the basket,”
and your warning that you have “a dozen
or so like it to send” resignedly noted
E.G.E.: Some humor, but too near the “Tit-
Bits” sort.... J.8.C.: It didn’t get past....
T.P.W.: Has merit, but verses that need a
glossary are heavily handicapped M.F.:
Out of our line G.F.N.R.: “Enclosed
please find an appreciation of the incompar-
able Don Bradman.” Doesn’t appeal to us,
and doubtful if it would to Don H.L.M.:
A great deal too long even if it were 10 times
as readable C.A.K.: 111-fed, ill-dressed, ill-
cooked and ill-served, like the leg of mutton
Dr. Johnson once complained of O.McM.:
Regret that we can’t find a corner for it
M.L.L.: There should be a market for such
verse somewhere, but it isn’t here.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
P.D.: Slick linework and neat composition,
but the wheezes belong to the days of mutton-
chop whiskers A. 8.: Cannot make head
or tail out of that wild array of jagged lines.
C.D.: Easter drawing, even if it had been
suitable, arrived too late R.M.P.: Even
your “best” is a long way below what we
want T.W.: Looks like two dead trees con-
versing about the weather A.L.G.: You
have a bold style but a tame collection of
jokes P.A.: As yet you’re only spoiling
good drawing paper T.K.: Always pleased
to consider original gags and to buy suitable
ones E.J.S.: Apart from their neat eyebrows
there is nothing to recommend those three
flappers W.N.: Boxing kangaroo took the
count in the first round... .L.H.G.: What’s
that on the table —prize marrow or latest addi-
tion to the family? M.T.M.: Archdale is
not a six-footer, and we’ve never seen him in
a slouch hat J.N.: Fairy-tale illustrations
and nursery jests A.H.C.: Knowledge of
setting-out, but no confidence in linework....
R.W.H.: Why is “The Little Boy from Manly”
gazing so mournfully at the seascape?
G.R.: Still counting up the anatomical de-
fects R.8.C.: This week’s most disorderly
piece of work; also, gag appeared in a recent
American paper W. 8.: Promising student’s
work; make jokes crisper and put more
action into your pictures H.W.: It would
take us from now till Christmas to detail your
faults D.W.W.: Idea reveals original think-
ing; execution hopelessly immature T.M.:
Ended among the stragglers C. 8.: No time
for jests about such institutions F.G.A.:
Slight signs of improvement, but you still have
far to go D.L.: No use turning in colored
sketches... .C.N.T.: Threat to send in some-
thing similar every week leaves us terrified
G.S. :~Your hrush is obviously too thick....
B.B.: Same old drunk clinging to the same
lamp-post and making the same reply to the
same copper.
gave it to them for any sort of unorgan-
ised hospital or clinic methods, on which
they might care to fritter it away. So
far as persuading the Australian stork to
revert to its pre-war form is concerned,
the £200,000 might just as well have been
chucked over North Head in a storm.
* * * *
From “Norther”:
A chance remark by Young Bill about his
compulsory cadet training in 1927 has set me
thinking of the outcry then made because the
Australian forces were being starved with only
42,000 trainees. Now they are hard put to get
32,000 in a world which talks war all the time.
There are other differences. In 1927 Sydney
Harbor Bridge was only a couple of stumps
and an underestimate of cost. Federal Budgets
were £15,000,000 less. Birthrates were a good
deal higher, tax rates a good deal lower. Most
remarkable of all, you could get a real golden
Jimmy o’ Goblin for an Australian paper quid
in England.
* * * *
“Y.”: Edouard Espinosa, to tour Aus-
tralia from the end of April for the
exams, and demonstrations of the British
Ballet Organisation, was here about 20
years ago as dancer and ballet-master
and in musical plays, including the spec-
tacular revues and pantomimes then
favored, staged several enjoyable ballets,
He danced in Henry Irving productions
in the great days of the Lyceum, went
to Frohman in New York, and has since
produced in London the dances for at
least a couple of hundred musical plays,
among them “Chu-Chin-Chow,” “Cairo,”
“The. Maid of the Mountains” and a
} on g ser j es G f Robert Courtneidge pro-
, or
auctions.
* * * *
“Boots, Boots”: Commenting on the
R U game in England, Justice Maughan
~ xt e wj r> it i , •
N.S.W.R.U. annual meeting
that the spirit in which it was played was
fairer there than in Australia. Apropos,
j asked a Sydney first-grade three-quarter
, . , •
about a player in his club who made a
habit of trying to kick or punch a tackier.
“Be fair,” was the reply. “He doesn’t
do it without provocation. He was nearly
sent off last match, but the other cove
had bumped him hard, so, of course, he
had to dong the other cove.”
A MIXED GRILL.
“Visitor”: Adelaide has given itself a
cheap centenary present by putting into
action again a handsome fountain just
outside the Oval. For some unknown
reason it had for years been used as a
flowerbed, much as the Lancashire bath-
room is used for coal in English comic
papers.
* * * *
Harry Tighe decided that our sunshine
was what his soul desired, and fled to
Sydney from London a few weeks ago.
He was repatriated with sherry and
volleys of “Welcome back!” at a five-
to-seven. Harry may have to rush back
towards the end of the year because one
of his plays is being produced again in
London.
* * * *
“Fleet Street” records a purge:
Sydney’s old friend Philip Game, who is
about the mildest-looking Police Commis-
sioner Scotland Yard has ever seen, is earn-
ing a name for himself by cleaning up sordid
West End clubs and bars. Game’s methods
are scattering the keepers at a great rate.
* * * *
Admiral H. E. Grace, who passed on
the other day, had the black beard
and fierce mien of his father, “W.G.”
In his younger days he wielded
a hefty bat for the Navy. Tragedy
marred his closing years, a daughter
being killed while flying with her fiance.
A son was in Australian waters as flag-
lieutenant some 12 years ago.
* * * *
“Albarmount”: At' 80 Daniel Mac-
Donald, of Goulburn (N.S.W.j, has left
on his last trip. In 1883 three Mac-
Donalds—William, Charlie and Dan —
undertook one of the longest droving
trips in history—from Goulburn (N.S.W.)
to Fossil Downs, in Nor’-Westralia. It
took three years. A bullock wagon,
rebuilt en route from parts of a second
one, is still in use at Fossil Downs,
where Dan’s son, E.N., now has charge.
* * * *
“A.J.W.”: The Vic. Titles Office gets
some well-deserved criticism, but a
recent par. about purple ink being barred
there is quite without foundation. I
had occasion to ask about the matter of
colored ink, and this was the answer:
This Titles Office has never objected
to the receipt for registration of documents
printed or written in other than black.
The official letter is typed with purple
copying carbon.
* * * *
Flapper-press photos, have W. M.
Hughes dandling a baby and explaining
that since he raised £200,000 for making
childbirth safer the whole matter of fill-
ing Australia’s empty cradles is a States’
job. The fact is that the Federal Medi-
crl Council recommended a plan dealing
with all aspects of the falling-birthrate
problem, but the States howled for
the money, and the Commonwealth


ms.
m*
Farms and Hd
HI
m
OST important to the building of a
country’s prosperity is the establishment
of farms and homes !
Since its inception in 1899, the Rural Bank has
made 36,000 advances totalling £21,000,000 for
home building, and 58,000 advances totalling
£30,500,000 for developing farms—in all 94,000
advances involving £51,500,000.
In 1935, approximately 25 per cent, of all the
homes built in the State were financed by the
Rural Bank, thus contributing directly to expansion
and employment in the building industry.
At the Rural Bank your money can be invested
in a Fixed Deposit paying current interest rates,
or part of it can be placed in a convenient Cheque
, Account.
vW/
PiurnlßanA
OF NEW SOUTH W A U E S
Head Office . . MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY
Commissioners : C. R. McKERIHAN (President) H. ROGERS P. KEARNS
%'il
IllllllllllllH!
liiilillillfc
7 V-* ' - <&
Ililllllil
«
LARRY FOLLY, THE MASTER
No. 11 of a series of articles on the great Australian boxers.
' “Mr. Lawrence Foley, the champion
muscular Christian, is a native of
N.S.W., having been born at the Turon
River in 1852. He has proved himself
to be a prodigy of muscle, courage and
physical science, and has to-day an un-
beaten record of over 50 battles.
“Larry came on this planet at the time
of the gold rush, and the experiences of
his earliest days, added to the birthright
of a splendid physique, no doubt inured
him to the many struggles he has since
gone through with such success.
“At the time of his first ring encounter,
Foley was foreman at the Redfern rail-
way bridge, in which capacity he proved
himself both capable and reliable. That
encounter was with Sandy Ross 11 years
ago. A fight of 140 rounds, lasting
2 hours 40 minutes, ensued, Foley being
the winner. The result was not satis-
factory to Ross’s backers, and another
match was made for £2OO. It came off
at Port Hacking. Foley defeated Ross
in four fiercely-fought rounds lasting 28
minutes.
“Besides Sandy Ross, Foley has de-
feated Corby, Campbell, Hughes, Woods,
Hogan, Bill Johnson, The Coalheaver,
Brierly, Fred Jackson and Charlie Kelly.
Jackson, a 14st. man and a representative
heavyweight, was beaten in 24 minutes.
The affair took place at Gulgong, and
was for £lOO.
A 3" ' as ‘ and grea ' est battle li r, S
with Abe Hicken, the champion light-
weight of England, a man who had been
0 f a hundred battles in the
three isles. The match was for £lOOO
and the championship of Australia, and
developed into not only a national but
an intercolonial affair, over £20,000
being staked on the event—several well-
known bishops had laid more than a
trifle. The utmost difficulty was thrown
in the way of the combatants, and they
were bound over to keep the peace in
Victoria in a total sum of £BOOO. The
border-line proved convenient, and the
battle came off on the N.S.W. side, 11
miles from Echuca.
“It was the best modern English fight,
and far and away superior to anything
previously witnessed in Australia. Foley
was trained by Jem Mace and Thomp-
son. Hicken had the attention of Black
Perry. The conflict lasted 70 minutes,
during which time 16 rounds were
fought. Hicken shaped well for six or
seven rounds, but he appeared to be at
all times at the mercy of his antagonist
and eventually succumbed, a thoroughly
beaten man. Foley came out of the
ring without the slightest physiognomical
discoloration.
“After this affair, Foley’s friends
offered to match him against any light-
weight in the world for anything up to
£3OOO a side, but there was never any
response from England or America.
“Foley is a married man and has a
family. He is of a cheerful and quiet
disposition and has many friends, even
among people who dislike prize-fighting
on principle. He now teaches the art
of boxing, and is prepared to enter into
a contract to instruct recognised synodi-
cal representatives at a very reasonable
discount on ruling figures.”
The foregoing appeared in this paper
on June 10, 1882. It was one of a multi-
tude of Bulletin references to the first
of the great Australian boxers and the
greatest of all teachers of boxing-
references always favorable, except dur-
ing the period immediately following the
Miller-Foley fight in May, 1883. Then
The Bulletin was angry because Miller
had been robbed of a decision he had
fairly earned, and, while not actually
blaming Foley, it did not spare Foley’s
friends.
Larry and Sandy.
Foley’s bare-knuckle fights with Sandy
Ross, famous in their day, have become,
as it were, part of the legend of the Aus-
tralian ring. Old men now differ as to
where they actually occurred. One
swears that the first took place at
Hunter’s Beach, Middle Harbor. “It
was,” he declares, “a real rough-and-
tumble, and tremendous punishment was
meted out on both sides.” According
to this authority, the scene of the next
meeting was George’s River, “just near
the site of the present Como Bridge. Larry
had in the meantime developed some
of the science of which he was to be-
come a master, and he polished Ross off
in four rounds. Partisans had tried to
make it an Orange-Green shindy. More
discriminating admirers set the fighters
up in business, putting Larry in a pub
and Sandy in a cab. The last time I saw
Sandy Ross —it is many years ago—he
still had his cab.”
Like the good game fellows they
were, Larry and Sandy did not remain
enemies. Long afterwards, when Foley
owned the White Horse Hotel and ran
fights on the premises, he gave Sandy
matches when Sandy needed the money.
One of these—the date was December
11, 1886 —was with a clever lightweight
from Melbourne named Jack Molloy.
Poor Sandy had grown fat and scant of
breath —as a wit of the period put it,
“he looked in training for a Mayor Riley’s
feed rather than for a glove fight”—and
he was knocked out in the first round.
Over 30 years later when Foley lay
dying he sent for Ross, and the latter
chatted affectionately with his conqueroi,
now matched with Death.
Hicken had made a name in the
U.S.A. as well as Britain. “He was a
really first-class pbgilist,” an American
sporting reporter wrote years after
Foley beat him. “He came to this coun-
try in 1867, and fought Pat Maguire for
$2OOO and the lightweight champion-
ship of America at Perrysville, Mary-
land. Maguire had the better of a
desperate fight to the fifth round, when
Hicken, with a tremendous right, broke
his jaw. Hicken also beat Hugh (better
known as ‘Butt’) Riley in short order.
A description of the Foley-Miller
fight was here published on Feb. 17. It
was the old story, since many times
repeated, of a good big man overcoming
a good little man. Miller himself recog-
nised that his four-stone advantage was
the deciding factor. Paying a tribute in
Melbourne “Sportsman” to “my game
little adversary, who of his weight and
inches has no superior in the world,”
the “Professor” suggested that Austra-
lians should pit Larry against Charlie
Mitchell for £5OO a side, and offered to
put up £lOO of the £5OO.
At the White Horse.
In February, 1885, a year memorable
in the history of Australian boxing,
Foley took over the White Horse Hotel
in George-street, Sydney. It was an old
tavern which had changed hands many
times, and in a recent metamorphosis
had been known as Nissen’s Cafe. There
Larry established himself, not only as
publican but as teacher of boxing and
promoter of boxing matches.
In a parlor of the White Horse (“Tom
Cribb’s Parlor”) many a rousing fight
was fought. So many “sports” thirstec
to see the fun that operations were shifted
to the roomier cellar. The cellar had a
cement floor, but that didn t matter,
and though it was said that the impact
of a pug’s head on the cement couid
sometimes be heard in Pitt-street the
coroner never had to be called in. Some
of the finest boxers that ever stripped to
the buff had set-tos on that cement floor.
In time, the cellar itself was too small
for the crowds who wanted to see men
like “Australian” Billy Smith and Bi >
McCarthy knock skin and hair oft one
another, and Foley had a gymnasium,
capable of accommodating 800, built at
the back of the White Horse.
Of this new feature it was written
early in 1886: “The larrikin element is
not represented at the gymnasium, oe>
superintends the entertainments, an
aggressive spirits in the audience have
too much ‘respect’ for him to 1 Y
his mandate that good behavi
be observed.” . ,
The fare submitted was ple« Iy
varied. One night, for example. Cans
dell and Foley knocked each otherabj
with singlesticks; Mick Doo
eight rounds with Young SiiUivan, nn
ing the knocker on Sully s nasal l P
crance when he liked, and ther


-for your holiday
v, rv
W* I
/S’
m
This land of counfless attractions awaits you—•
ancient temples beautiful scenery native
customs and colourful bazaars. Your luxury
liner visits many interesting ports along the
smooth water route. Life on board is pleasant.
Spacious decks, restful lounges, a tiled swim-
ming pool, and talking picture equipment.
At your request, we shall be pleased
to forward Folder No. 61.
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD.
7 BRIDGE ST., SYDNEY TELEPHONE 87901
i' II 1
\
-
Ktf
1
I
ISSSI
m
■
.
i
An important chapter in ocean travel has been
written by the Canadian-Australasian Line (Inc. in Canada). Since
1893 this trans-Pacific service has been a link between Australia and
Canada.
Calls are made at
AUCKLAND, N.Z.; SUVA, FIJI; HONOLULU, T.H.; VICTORIA, 8.C.;
and VANCOUVER.
Travel by this picturesque route to Europe!
Full particulars from :—•
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., LTD. Wn in &)
247 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
wrestling match between Connors, the
Launceston champion, and Mr. Martin
Bruin, the mixed-style collarer.
“Mr. Bruin was backed by Foley to
throw the man three times before
the human animal felled his hirsute
antagonist. A French gentleman who
engineers the bears had a bet on the
issue, and when Connors fought for a
hind-leg hold he claimed a foul. ‘Lanky’
held on, however, and, getting on a sort
of hind-leg armlock, he pitched 7cwt. of
bear’s grease fairly over.
“Bruin was dissatisfied and came on
again, but Connors, having thrown him,
climbed one of the uprights. The audi-
ence left the hall with remarkable
energy, and the reporter, though bidden
to remember that wrestling bears are
muzzled and their claws clipped, skipped
lightly and airily from the scene.”
Meanwhile, in public and private
appearances Foley was demonstrating
that, so far from losing some of his
boxing skill with advancing years, he
had become cleverer than ever. Mention
has been made- of the Chiarini’s-circus
LARRY FOLEY, as Phil May saw him.
bout in which Peter Jackson outpointed
“Professor” Miller, though no decision
was given. Before the two heavyweights
shaped up on the sawdust “Foley and
Jackson had a lively three rounds, when
Larry, though in want of condition, dis-
played to the crowd a little of the won-
derful science he is possessed of. The
darkie was outfought at every point,
though he was as fit as a fiddle.”
The Day's Work.
On June 5, 1886, it was written: “Foley
has now a standing offer of five guineas
°n any or every Saturday evening to any
comer who can withstand him for three
founds. However, a team of bullocks
would be more efficacious than the fiver
m drawing a lamb to the slaughter.”
The veteran vainly tried to get matches
with Peter Newton and Farnan, the con-
queror of Jackson. To Farnan he said
that if the blacksmith couldn’t find a side-
wager “I’ll fight you for love and give
you £5O when you step into the ring
with me.” But no match was made on
those or any other conditions. Indeed,
except for a six-round “exhibition” in
1888 with the London Jew who called
himself “Jack Burke, the Irish Lad,”
Foley engaged in no regular match after
the affair with Miller in May, 1883.
A chronicle of Nov. 10, 1888: “It’s an
open question whether, after all, Larry
Foley is not at this moment the best of
Australian boxers if it were only worth
the veteran’s while to spread himself.
Larry continues to belt all-comers for
mere amusement. On a sultry morning
he will drift into his athletic ljall and
demolish three or four brawny boxers
without turning a hair. It is all in the
day’s work, and when a fighting gentle-
man of Bft., more or less, comes into the
bar and explains that he wants to be
pounded Larry takes him peacefully into
the back premises and pounds him.
Generally five or six of the stranger’s
friends come along to see the proceed-
ings and express a desire to take a hand,
and then Foley pounds them also, and
very few of them get a chance to land
on him in return.”
A description of a “hot” morning at
Foley’s 49 years ago: “The seance was
opened by a lengthy gentleman of great
muscular development and considerable
science who wished to take a lesson —in
reality, he wanted to whale the whole
habitable globe. He towered high above
Foley, and hit out straight and with
the vigor of a battering-ram, but every
time he struck out his opponent had
stepped slowly and softly aside, and while
leaving had smitten the big man on three
places at once. He did it with a good-
humored smile, as if he didn’t want to
hurt anybody ; and then the large ath-
lete would get excited and come down
like the wolf on the fold. But he never
seemed to get anywhere in particular,
and when he crashed through the air with
both fists at once Foley would stop him
with one hand and flick him quietly on
the. ear with the other.
“After quarter of an hour, the stranger
was replaced by a smaller man of some
professional exterior, who came on with a
confident smile and got badly left. His
strong point consisted in getting under
the veteran’s guard, but he had less suc-
cess in getting out again, and after a
while it seemed to occur to him that he
was being played with. He got vicious
after this and settled down to steady
work at his antagonist’s head, but the
proprietor of the premises moved his
head out of the way and in a fatherly
style rolled him over on the floor.
“Jack Molloy followed when the cap-
sized hero had removed himself, and
dashed at his opponent with the evident
hope of finding him tired and short of
wind. Another quarter of an hour re-
duced the new man to a temporary ruin,
and he retired, leaving Foley still unim-
paired. Three or four more visitors then
sailed in and left discomfited, and a
gentleman who claimed to be champion
swimmer urged Lawrence to swim him
any distance for anything. The offer was
accepted, but the swimmer didn’t turn
up again. Altogether there are not many
laurels to be gained by hitting the ex-
champion.”
By the end of 1890 Foley sported “an
aldermanic bingey”; nevertheless, “it
was a treat to see him shape up to clever
Jack Molloy.” He “stood squarely to
his man, not losing a fraction of his
height, the left ready for a lead, the right
playing loosely across the ‘mark,’ ready
for stop or delivery.” He got that style
from Jem Mace, and passed it on to his
pupils, and the best of them imparted it
to their pupils. Very distant were the
days of the ugly Jeffries crouch.
George Seale.
“D. 8.”: I have, been greatly interested
by the articles on the old-time boxers,
especially George Seale, whose pupil I
was whenever I could spare the time in
my student days. Even then very few
people realised what a wonderful boxer
George Seale was, though I had heard
all about him from “Banjo” Paterson.
He had a very quiet, unassuming
manner, and nothing about his face or
physique gave any indication of his
extraordinary speed and hitting power.
A casual stranger who thought he
could fight would as soon tackle George
Seale as any of his pupils. If he did
he would not get hurt unless he was rude
or offensive. Seale never hit me or any
other pupil hard enough to hurt, and I
do not think I ever saw anyone hit him
fairly, not even Tremayne Rodd, who
was a very good amateur in those days,
probably the best there was.
Seale stood with his knees slightly
bent, and when you hit at him he
straightened them ever so little, which
carried his nose an eighth of an inch out
of range, without moving his feet or dis-
turbing his balance. That is why Peter
Newton led short at him, no doubt.
I never saw him fight anyone—he had
given that up—but I saw him spar with
Jim Barron, who said he would not go
on without an axe; and Larry Foley,
then old and fat and slow. Seale had a
great respect for Larry in his younger
days ; said he had no chance with his
teacher —couldn’t hit hard enough to stop
him.
The Randwick footballers, of whom,
I think, Fred Henlen was captain at the
time, used to train at Seale’s club. They
gulled an officer from a surveying ship
into having a go at Seale. Seale kidded
him thoroughly, let this fellow punch
him on the shoulder, fell down and
would not get up. The Randwick crowd
rushed their hero to the dressing-room,
bathed him and rubbed him down so
hard that he could not put his clothes
on next day.
A few days afterwards a couple of
ratings came down in the afternoon, and
wanted to fight George or Arthur Scott
or any of their pupils. They made most
disparaging remarks about their boxing
and their style of teaching. Scott told
George, who was giving a lesson. He
said: “Give them a set of gloves and let
them amuse themselves till I have fin-
ished.” Then he got into the ring with
the naval expert. He started off by dab-
bing the n.e. on the nose about six times
with his right, not hard, but as quick
as shots from a machine-gun. The sailor
tried valiantly but could not' hit him at
all. Then George ran round the ring a
couple of times, with Nelson after him,
but never quite able to reach him—a
most comic sight. Then the mariner
stopped and asked George whether this
was a running match or a fighting match.
George said: “Whichever you like,”
and gave him a poke in the stomach
that nearly made his tongue shoot out.
That sort of thing was not very rare
in those days. I saw several fellows, big
husky chaps from the country who could
beat shearers or navvies, and fully be-
lieved they were a match for Seale or
Scott. They all went the same way, of
course, but were never hurt.
Years after when I saw Clabby I
thought he would have been a splendid
match for George ; both about the same
weight, quick, clever and unorthodox.
Seale was a clerk in the Lands Office at
Sydney when I knew him first. Truly a
wonderful athlete and a marvellous
boxer. He fought a very big man named
Jumbo Walker, I think, down about
Botany one afternoon, took a cab back
and rowed in the intercolonial eight at
5 p.m. He sat on his office stool all
day and fought anyone they could fetch
at night.
George Seale was the cleverest boxer
I have ever seen. I met his son some
years ago at Port Darwin, but I don’t
think even he realised what a world-
beater his father might have been. Fancy
George Seale at the Olympic Games!


DON’T HESITATE
WHEN PLANNING YOUR
ADVERTISING CAMPAIGN
IN WESTERN AUSTRALIA
TO USE THE
PERTH’S
LEADING WEEKLY,
the Journal with the Home
Circulation and State-W'de
Coverage.
Sydtey Representative:
HAL J. JOHNSTONE,
Wingello House. Angel Place.
Melba tone Representative:
MERVYN S. ALLAN,
368 Collins Street.
Things Are Looking Up
During 1936 Broken Hill’s population increased
by 1640 to well over 28,000. The of
men employed along the line of lode rose 742
to 4295 and the wages paid by the mines alone
soared from approximately £27,000 to £30,000
weekly.
And prospects for 1937 are even brighter.
LET...
" The Barrier Miner "
carry your message to this rich market—you
just can’t afford to ignore it!
Further details can be had from
A. G. - PIKE,
Newspaper House,
Melbourne.
1\ A. MESSENGER,
Warwick Bldg.,
Sydney.
NEWS, LTD., North Terrace, Adelaide.
Concentrated Cover
The mass of the circulation among the mass of
the population is the cover offered by
The Courier- Mail
The rich Queensland areas of the North Coast, the
South Coast and the Darling Downs, and the Northern
Rivers district of New South Wales all come within a radius
of 100 miles of Brisbane. Within this circle resides a popu-
lation of approximately 700,000, concentrated in some of
the richest farming and pastoral areas in Australia.
This is the mass market covered by The Courier-Mail,
rich in possibilities for the National Advertiser; and here
are the circulation figures for the various areas: —
Within a radius of 25 miles of Brisbane:
43,353
Within a radius of 50 miles of Brisbane:
48,905
Within a radius of 100 miles of Brisbane:
60,781
(Average net daily circulation for six months'
period ended September, 1936, 69,837.)
THE COURIER-MAIL, Queensland’s National
Daily, offers the most complete and effective cover
of this rich market.
Queensland Newspapers Pty., Ltd.,
BRISBANE.
Sydney Representative: R. JACKSON, Warwick Building, Hamilton Street.
Melbourne Representative: R. D. FISHER, Newspaper House, Collins Street.
London Representative: A. J. CHARD, 92 Fleet Street.
DO NOT
let your customers
change to something
different. Keep in
touch with them over
the week-end and let
them read of your
excellent products in
“The Mail”
ADELAIDE, S.A.
On SUNDAY
That is the day your cus-
tomers have most time to
ponder over the good things
of life.
RATES from:
P. A. MESSENGER. Warwick Build-
ings. Hamilton street, Sydney.
A. G. PIKE, Newspaper House,
Collins street, Melbourne.
Business Going West!
Yes to 6AM
The station that no busi-
ness man should ignore.
It’s the station with a pull
in the country districts
of W.A. . . . the station
that will buck up your
sales.
6AM
Prince’s Chambers,
William Street,
Perth,
Western Australia.
from the nerves rather than the inner being. “That's
how Anna sees you. The Guthries, too. Now you ve
given yourself away, admitted they were right. Shown
yourself to be the sort of woman you’ve always
wanted to choke.”
A dissatisfaction with herself, with the way she
had lost grip on life, seeped through her.
This book was to have been concerned with a
man like Peter, a naive immigrant, coming to the port
in the hope of finding a new ideal way of living, but
gradually adjusting himself to the social forces
developing around him, becoming a Sanderson, a
Macrossan. The whole tone of it was to have been
dry and objective. How resolutely she had set out
at the beginning of the year to make the most of her
isolation, to forego her little jaunts to town, shut her-
self in her room and work.
Yet what was left of her original plan? Hardly
a hint. A perky, bright-eyed creature, Peter’s
daughter, had emerged, taken charge: the crumpled
pages were nothing but a record of her trivial
reactions, her unimportant chatter.
She couldn’t write, couldn’t get beneath the
iridescent scum-covered surface of things. And her
fruitless preoccupation had made her lose contact with
the people she liked down at the port. They were
drifting away from her—Katie cultivating her social
flair, Corcoran hardly recognising her when he met
her in the street, Neil Sanderson growing shy of her,
wrapping himself up in obscure ideas of his own, the
ambition, perhaps, to make a fortune out of canned
fish!
PART of her failure, she told herself savagely, was
due to the Guthries: they kept her in a state of
prickly awareness, never let her lose consciousness of
herself, become engrossed in an objective world. No
use going off to her room and locking the door. She
could hear their voices floating along the verandah,
feel their acid comments about her penetrating the
walls. It had been the same with Anna at home, but
she had been able to provide herself with weapons
against Anna in the end. The Guthries were more
formidable antagonists.
She was letting them, she knew, darken her whole
skyline. They had been the only people in the settle-
ment able to make room for her when she had first
come, but she had paid dearly for the gross comfort
of the big house, its fat furnishings, its wireless that
could pick up any station on the continent. Before
going on the land Guthrie had been a bank-manager:,
he was a bland, vigorous, cold-blooded man who
weighed-up people’s characters as if they were coming
to him for credit her own, she felt, was a mere
cipher in his scales and his wife, immense, com-
placent, watched over the table in a way that made
any remark stick like a crumb in the throat. “I’m
afraid I don’t quite understand you, Miss Jensen.”
How she longed to say something that would
burst like a bomb in the woman’s ears, shake her to
the core, make her feel that the world she believed
in was coming crashing about her head.
They had, she was well aware, made up their
minds about her very early in her stay. She was old
Jensen’s daughter, and Jensen was one of those shift-
less foreigners who spread untidy habits and dangerous
ideas: he drank too much, for one thing, and had
once figured in the police court because of some
brawl with sailors near the Port Cowrie wharves.
That accounted for anything eccentric or impulsive
about her, her habit of going bareheaded, her sym-
pathy with strikers, subversive movements, the way
she hung up pictures of queer people on her walls.
“Those foreigners!”
The country was being overrun with them, Mrs.
Guthrie implied, gradually being contaminated: she
would bring up some sensational paragraph about
the workings of the Black Hand among Italian cane-
farmers as if Freda were subtly involved. Yet there
was Christian forbearance in her attitude. Her cold,
colorless eyes always seemed to be saying “Never
mind, my dear. We ll try to forget about it if you
can.”
Humiliating to live among such people! There
came a time when the fun of laughing at them, pro-
voking their curiosity, saying things to annoy them,
lost its savor. Mysteriously they contrived to have
the last word. Guthrie, though unintelligent, was
active-minded: he had a certain shrewdness, a male
force ; the sheer bulk of him gave him power. His
eyes, flashing points of light behind their glasses,
beat her down, drove her to cover. There was always
a wordless duel at the dinner-table. “Very clever,
aren’t you? Read a lot and think you’re in touch
with everything that’s going on in the world! Latest
notions, newest claptrap. Well, you’ve got more
to learn than to teach, my young flibbertigibbet.”
“You think so? Repression, isn’t it, that makes
you so savage. If I’d played up to you when 1 first
came here” ——
But there was no satisfaction in that kind of
silent repartee.
/ ,If, youx could only lose yourself for a while, she
brooded, thicken your skin, plunge into some current
of anonymous life. Find a.job in a canning factory,
say, where you were only one of a crowd of. girls, a
worker merged in the interests of your class. This
continual awareness of yourself, of other people: it
was like lying sleepless on a hot night, with every
creak of the pine boards, every.rustle of leaves on
the roof giving a separate twitch to the nerves.
You were happiest, most alive, when you forgot
that , outer image of ypurself,. the near-dimples, the
crooked smile, and let your feelings flow naturally, as
when moving through the jungle to the range-crest
on a bright morning, your lunch in your billy and no
other human being within half-a-dozen miles, or when
dancing with the mill-hands from Laverton, knowing,
or not caring, that they thought you just a decent
sort, a bit of an outsider who came, to their hops, took
part in their union meetings, because you had put
yourself wrong with your own crowd at the front
through losing your head about a colored boy from
Luggcrtown. j - :
SHE let her glance idly fall on one of the pages
under the light: “Though Christine wasn’t exactly
beautiful there was a qharm about her that attracted
everyone she met. It showed in her impulsive gestures,
her crooked smile. And now as she stood before
the glass”
Her hand closed in a fierce, ashamed movement
on the sheet and crumpled it into a ball. For awhile
she sat as if she held something alive and wriggling,
and there was ruthlessness in her smile. Damn
Christine and her posturings! She would at least
provide the creature with a sticky end.
Laboriously she gathered up the scattered pages
and bundled them into an old newspaper, tossing in
a notebook filled with careful phrases and hasty
caricatures. Through the window she could see a
faint glow among the orange-trees near the stable
where Guthrie had been burning-up rubbish late that
afternoon. She stole out along the verandah with
her bundle and made her way across the dew-cold
grass to the fire.
A still night powdered with stars, dark smudges
around the skyline marking the jungle that hemmed
in the paspalum-sown clearings and acres of orchard.
The oranges were beginning to bud, and in the dusk
a faint whiteness glimmered like light reflected in
water. Somewhere near at hand a mopoke was hoot-
ing monotonously. A faint border of red ran round
the edges of the paper, and then flames burst out
suddenly, dazzling her eyes.
“Holidays next week,” she was thinking. “Will
I have the spunk to use them as a complete break?
Begin again, make my life over. Or will I just laze
the days away at Bustard Heads or Tern Island?
Quarrelling with Sandy, ragging him, trying to strike
some spark from him.”
A wave of impatience swept over her as she
called up Neil’s heavy, sun-darkened face, his sober
eyes. How was it that the slow movement of his
mind was coming to irritate her more and more,
prompting her to jazz it up by saying spiteful things
about his father, about his preoccupation with getting
on, about his friendship with Anna? She took no
pleasure in spending an evening with him now: he
made her feel unreal if she showed him a glimpse of
what was going on inside her. Had he lost interest
in everything but digging himself in, making a secure
place for himself along the waterfront?
“It can’t be Besanck who’s encouraged that side
of him. . There’s something about Besanck... Keep
alive, keep. from growing fat-witted... How is it
L never have the luck to meet him when I go down
to the port?”
She became aware of a soft, shuffling tread among
the orange-trees, of a figure looming up in the night.
“Hallo! Burning all the evidence?”
It was Guthrie, standing slippered and in shirt-
sleeves just outside the fireglow, his glasses two spots
of blank whiteness in the dim expanse of his face.
She stirred up the heavy wad of paper. “That was
what I set out to do. It’s not such an easy job as
I expected.”
“A lot of people have come to grief there,” said
Guthrie with a chuckle. “Hardest thing on earth to
get rid of a body. Something always left.”
“It’ll all be gone before I’m done with it,” she
said, thrusting her stick savagely into the flame.
“Anyone who pleases can poke about among the
ashes. There won’t be as much as a finger-joint un-
consumed.”
{To be continued next week.)


THE
BERNARD CRONIN
STORY-WRITING
COURSE.
Mr. Cronin’s course is a masterpiece of
expert practicality. The components of
a story—theme, plot, openings, dialogue.,
characterisation and description — the
very names of which excite the imagina-
tion, and the awe, of literary aspirants,
are considered in detail with a wealth of
illustration and practical advice that at
once removes many of the more serious
obstacles from the path of the beginner.
The instruction is given in ten lessons.
Mr. Cronin’s own enthusiasm is so great,
his sympathy so large and his handling
of the practice work sent in so com-
petently confident that the interest of his
pupils never flags. Those who have a
real flair for writing very soon make a
good job of every piece of work they
send in. They are helped the more
inasmuch as they are not kept waiting
for their revised work.
It is true that pupils have to work.
Mr. Cronin is not content with less than
the best they can do ; and neither are
they allowed to rest content until he has,
by instruction and illustrative revision
of parts, trained them to polish and re-
polish until the whole is a finished piece
of work truly expressive of the writer’s
intention and individuality.
Later, in the advanced lessons, the
pupil is sometimes asked to return to an
earlier story, and in the light of his —
and frequently her —added experience
and increased knowledge, improve it to
publication standard. Mr. Cronin is
most insistent, however, on his pupils
submitting to editors none but good
work—not, of course, the best they ulti-
mately will do, but work of such a stan-
dard as will preclude the possibility of
their being classed by editors as per-
manent mediocrities.
The results are becoming increasingly
apparent. Some are given in detail in
“Friendships,” copies of which can be
had on request.
In addition to teaching story-writing,
Mr. Cronin criticises the MSS. of writers
who have had only a limited success.
This critical service has proved of great
value to many whose work, through
minor faults of construction or presenta-
tion, has just failed to get publication.
Mr. Cronin’s Story-writing Course is
fully described in an illustrated pamphlet,
'Story Writing.” Copies will be sent
post free to any reader of The Bulletin
who would like one.
Letters can be addressed to:
BERNARD CRONIN,
398 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
H.R.H.
Prince Charles of
Sweden.
Lieut.-General ,
Lord Baden-Powell,
K.C.8., K.C.V.0., LL.D.,
F.R.G.S.,
“The Chief Scout. ”
Mr. E. V. Lucas,
Asst. Editor of
London “Punch.”
Sir Max Pemberton,
the Well-known Novelist.
Pelmanism smoothes awao all
difficulties . . . / rr
The Signatures
Tiie signatures in this announce-
ment are reproduced from signed
letters of appreciation received by
Pelman Institute. Signatures
differ as much as faces differ, and,
like faces, they often surprise us
when we meet them by their un-
likeness to our conception of them.
We are sure that readers of “The
Bulletin” will be interested in these
signatures of well-known Polman-
ists.
1 *
DR. F. W. NORWOOD, D.D.,
“The World’s Evangelist,”
recently of the City Temple,
London, who describes Pel-
manism as “The Key to a Man’s
Career.”
INTERNATIONAL AWARDS
to the Pelman Institute:
Liege .... 1930 Nancy .... 1932
Geneva.... 1933 Paris 1933
The more important personal qualities
and attributes developed by Pelmanism
vo.
are:
Concentration
Observation
Judgment
Decision
Self-Confidence
Initiative
Social Ease
Courage
and a Reliable Memory
for faces, figures, names, appointments,
prices, arguments and useful data of every
kind.
More than half a million men and
women have enrolled for the Pelman
Course of Mind, Memory and Per-
sonality Training. Of these 35,000
have enrolled with the Institute in
Melbourne.
The Pel mm: Institute is a world-wide
organisation of 40 years’ standing. Its
headquarters are in London, and its
address in Australia is 3 Gloucester House,
396 Flinders Lane, Melbourne, C. 1., where
it has been established for 29 years.
(Dame Sybil Thorndike;
The Effect of Pelmanism
Pelmanism is scientific training of Mind, Memory and Personality. It is a
working course in Practical Psychology directed to *-he needs of the average man
and woman.
The obvious effect of the Pelman Training, observable very early m the
Course, is a quick and accurate memory for faces, names, facts, figures, business
conversations, for what has been said and what has been read, for what has been done
and what is to do, for cards, languages, and the general material of work or study.
There is a quickening of the natural perceptive faculties reflected in increased
ability to concentrate, greater powers of decision, and much greater confidence, so
that we find Pelmanists in all walks of life accepting cheerfully, inside and outside
their occupations, responsibilities that they were once afraid of.
They seek and get better positions, they are able to speak without notes, they
meet others on terms of equality, they accept office in Lodge, in Council, in
Parliament, and acquit themselves creditably.
In short, Pelmanists carry within themselves a wider range of consciousness,
greater aptitudes, and justified self-confidence, qualities which give personality and
mark their possessors for advancement and progress.
Pelmanism is for anyone who has aspirations
and ambition
The Chain of Personal Reference
Accompanying the textbooks of Pelmanism, containing information and
graded mental exercises of great practical value, there are Progress Work Sheets to
be submitted to the Institute. These Work Sheets are carefully revised by qualified
Examiners and returned with letters of advice.
Progress Work Sheets and Letters combined constitute a chain of personal
references in which the full scope of the Pelman System is brought to bear cn the
development of the student and on his personal difficulties. This thorough revisional
work is an outstanding feature of the Pelman training.
The Pelman Institute
For the scientific development of Mind, Memory and Personality ,
3 Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Lane (Cr. Market St.), Melbourne.
Telephone: MU2355.
We shall be glad to send
readers of “The Bulletin" a copy
of “Tine Efficient Mind,” 76
pages, post free. You can
write us fully, or you can make
just a bare application by using
or copying the form alongside.
Your inquiry will be regarded
as a confidential communica-
tion ; we have no outside repre-
sentatives.
To the Telman Institute, 3 Gloucester House,
3!)6 Flinders Fane, Melbourne.
Please send me, free and post-free, a copy of
“The Efficient Mind.”
Name
Address
418
The late
Mr. Edgar Wallace,
Author and Dramatist.
Sir Herbert Barker,
Eminent Specialist in
Manipulative Surgery.
Sir Harry Johnston, G.C.M.G.,
K.C.8., D.Sc., Governor of the
London School of Economics.
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK’S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
Jl
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30 /-.)
X
,v-
-v-4 *o°y“
AW xp
K.X
eP'Ce **£#>
«f>"
w 6
,<1 ...
o
0° J)
••• ..••■ .• 4 ■*•%<,s
/** ..••••■' ..•••"
*«' ..••• ..-•’ c 4
•. • v


*
■
11 ii§BB SI
■
.
m
:
. : ;
I
■H
&
•:
»*»«
:■ ■
!■
MOB
II
..W---;/
wssm.
"
■«
?:
The Metropolitan Building,
Corner Hunter and Bligh Streets, Sydney:"
AUSTRALIAN
METROPOLITAN LIFE
ASSURANCE COMPANY, LTD.
Incorporated 1895.
Incorporated in Queensland in 1895, the Australian Metropolitan is one
of the old-established Life Offices. It has over 40 years of faithful
service to the public behind it, and has earned a reputation for its liberal
and sympathetic treatment of policyholders.
Income in 1936 was £328,257 10/10.
Payments to Policyholders exceed £1,272,000.
At the end of 1936 the Assets were made up as follows:
Assurance bunds at 31/12/36, £1,477,273.
DIRECTORS: DR. A. MURRAY WILL (Chairman), W. A. H. ALLWORTH, D. F. STEWART, J. A, HENDERSON,
F. J. EATON.
GENERAL MANAGER: J. A. HENDERSON. GENERAL SECRETARY: FREEMAN J. EATON
ACTUARY: W. R. DAY, F.I.A.
BRANCH OFFlCES— Victoria: THE METROPOLITAN BUILDING, £9-91 QUEEN ST ??ET, MO.BOURNE.
Queensland: THE METROPOLITAN BUILDING, 367-9 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
South Australia: 22 PIRIE STREET, ADELAIDE.
