

si s
V 9
m
pi
mm
m -i
■IMI
m
»
iSSSSS
v *• %
'■'. •:.. .'• '
| 1 M
&•s!s£ v.v
3M
iP^
if
;
:
■
m
s
m
m
m
s
m
m
4
• < •••••■
Imm
IMI®. ; - • 1
till;,.
:
15
i.i:
W
.T&r, i
i:,:i
M
Share Certificates Should Represent £.S.D.
The aim of every investor is to possess shares in concerns which not only
represent an asset value which makes them good holding, but also return
income in the form of regular dividends.
Offerings of Hamiltons (Australasia) Ltd. are confined to shares in proved
dividend-paying, established companies where, in addition to income from
dividends, appreciation in value is a natural sequence.
Advice concerning existing investments forms an important part of the
service which is at the disposal of investors, large or small.
Ask for particulars:—•
VICTORIA:
Metropolitan Building.
89—91 Queen Street,
Melbourne.
G.P.O. Box 520.1,
QUEENSLAN D :
Commonwealth Bank Building,
Queen Street,
Brisbane.
G.P.O. Box 1017 N.
Bank of N.S.AV. Chambers,
Flinders Street,
Townsville.
G.P.O. Box 2,80.
SOUTH VUSTRAMA:
CALL. Building,
King AVilliam Streel,
Adelaide.
G.P.O. Box 650 P.
NEW ZEALAND:
Nat. Bank of N.Z. Chambers,
Featherstone Street,
Wellington, N.Z.
G.P.O. Box 562, Wellington.
JHamiltOm (Australasia) limited
Investment Brokers and Financial Advisers. Authorised Capital, £250,000.
Head Office: KEMBLA BUILDING, MARGARET STREET, SYDNEY.
’Phones: BW1146 and 1147 (G.P.O. Box 3752SS.)
Branch Offices: Commercial
Box No. 123, Armidale.
Bank Chambers, Beardy Street, Armidale, N.S.W. ’Phone, Armidale
C.M.L. Building, Hunter Street, Newcastle, ’Phone, Newcastle 1942.
150.
The Bulletin
/. Bull Ends a Jag
Vol. 58.—N0. 2980.
Wednesday, March 24, 1937.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


DYMOCK’S LIBRARY CATALOGUE
with terms and particulars, will be sent
post free to any address on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
“The Block,”
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
k
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
_ _ _ CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
16pp. Illustrated Penmanship Prospectus explaining
your Muscular Movement System of Writing, as
'advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name • • ■
My Address
S.B. 437
S. H. Prior Memorial Prize
Third Competition, Closing June 6, 1937.
Full particulars of this annual literary award will be published
here from time to time, or may be had on application to 1H
Bulletin, 252 George-street, Sydney. ,
For this current competition only novels are ® h Jn h most
Prize will be awarded to that which is considered me mos
outstanding contribution to Australian literature.
The trustees will publish the successful work.in book tonn,
and in serial form any they may deem worthy. If pub shea i
serial the winner will be paid for at serial rates in addition to
prize-money. Any others used as serials will also be paid m
Sen<l Any tL fomia fide Australian resident or any person b °[n £
Australia, New Zealand or British South Pacific islands v i »
dS to enter for the competition works which must be the
orSal work of the entrants, and previously unpubhshed. edhg
wholly or in part, in book or serial form. Manuscripts
submitted under a nom de plume, and the true nani s j e nv elope,
of the author must accompany each entry in a sealed .A n
which will not be opened until the judges have made their
The trustees reserve the right to withhold the Prize if n
submitted is, in the opinion of the judges, worthy of an be
If this should occur in any year, the amount of the mize
added to the following year’s Prize.
The Red Page
FOR READERS AND WRITERS.
Most people who have any serious concern for
the state of the Australian mind are doubtless familiar
with Biaggini’s English in Australia, published several
years ago by the Melbourne and Oxford University
Presses. English in Australia was, and is, a very
important book. Its immediate purpose Was to illus-
trate a method of education, but its presentation of
the results of Biaggini’s method offered startling and
alarming evidence of the cultural decline among our
people, of the vitiation and corruption of the sensi-
bilities, of the language and of thought and feeling. It
was a challenge to our system of education and to our
whole way of life, a book of great social significance.
One grows more and more convinced that the most
resourceful educationalist is fighting a desperate if
not a losing battle against the environmental influ-
ences of the modern mind ; and Biaggini provided
evidence that the facts already observed abroad, by
Richards, Leavis and scores of others, were operating
also in Australia.
Now there comes from Hutchinson a new Biag-
gini book, The Reading and Writing of English, which
seems to me even more useful than his first; for
here he develops his method to meet the problems
which he has already stated.
There is a lamentable tendency in this country
and in others to regard the teaching of English, of
language and literature, as a more or less pedantic
exercise, remote from the actualities of life as we
must live it. Indignant parents protest in the news-
papers that their children are compelled to read
“Hamlet” ; “practical” men demand what they call
a “practical” education ; adult education movements
are more and more infested with the stultifying doc-
trine that economics is the sole key to culture ; and
the people who should be best equipped and most
ardent to defend the cause of the language and the
literature are oddly silent, as if they themselves had
doubts of the value of their work.
Yet a proper education in the native tongue, a
proper development of sense and sensibility by intelli-
gent understanding of our literature, are urgent now
as they never have been before. Words are the instru-
ments of thought: a corrupted vocabulary means the
corruption of thought, and the corruption of thought
means inevitably the death of the culture.
“Has literature a function in the State?” Ezra
Pound asks in How to Read; and surely his answer
is convincing:
It has. And this function is not the coercing or
emotionally persuading, or bullying or suppressing people
into the acceptance of any one set or any six sets of
opinions as opposed to any other set or half-dozen sets
of opinions.
It has to do with the clarity and vigor of “any and
every” thought and opinion. It has to do with main-
taining the very cleanliness of the tools, the health of
the very matter of thought itself. Save in the rare and
limited instances of invention in the plastic arts, or in
mathematics, the individual cannot think and communi-
cate his thoughts; the governor and legislator cannot
act effectively or frame his laws without words, and the
solidity and validity of these words is in the care of
the damned and despised literati. When their work
goes rotten—by that Ido not mean when they express
indecorous thoughts—but when their very medium, the
very essence of their work, the application of word to
thing goes rotten — i.e., becomes slushy and inexact, or
excessive or bloated —the whole machinery of social and
of individual thought and order goes to pot. This is
a lesson of history, and a lesson not yet half learned.
At almost every possible point the popular voca-
bulary to-day is going rotten. From the film adver-
tisements to stuff which comes to us over the radio,
the slushiness, inexactness, excessiveness and bloated-
ness of our language are apparent all day long ; and
the effects on the popular mjnd are immeasurably
calamitous. Think of the political consequences of
one or two words alone; of the furies, hates, resent-
ments roused by the stock response to a word like
“Fascism.” Among the mobs who revolt at the word
how many could give a rational definition of it?
Among the mobs to whom the word “Bolshevik”
used to be (in the days before Bolshevism became
the fashion) a red rag, how many could have defined
the tenets on which Lenin proceeded? Words like
these become charged with an emotional content of
such explosive quality that they may conceivably
wreck our world ; and only a few men here and there
any longer strive to understand their rational mean-
ings. Most of the misunderstandings and miseries of
the world spring from misunderstandings of words;
meanings are distorted and perverted to- become the
vehicles of prejudice rather than of reason. But the
case is even larger than this. It is becoming more
and more difficult to express in English any clear
and precise meanings, because our words are debili-
tated and debauched.
The vast flood of cheap and specious writing and
(now that the radio and the talkie are here) speaking
is turning the language into a lingo for morons. One
of Biaggini’s experiments with university students
(English and commerce students, whom one may
surely take to be above the average level of general
intelligence) revealed that a high proportion preferred
as literature Elmer Gantry’s sermon on love to a
passage of Bunyan at Bunyan’s best: a deliberately-
contrived piece of specious sentiment, written by
Lewis in characterisation of a charlatan and a hypo-
crite, to one of the most dignified and ordered pas-
sages in English. The unthinking may consider this
unimportant; but as soon as one does begin to think
one sees that the people who succumb to the false
and rotten in the classroom will most certainly be
the victims of the false and rotten in life. The very
core of our social problem is the need for reasoned
and measured judgments of life, and, as things are,
reasoned and measured judgments are the last things
for which one can hope.
To anyone who knows the peoples more remote
from modern influences, it is almost a truism that
they are more intelligent than our own literate masses.
Literacy, as we accept it, merely throws open the
mind to a host of cheap, spurious, second-rate,
hundredth-rate notions, prejudices and fancies. Con-
sider for one instant the quality of the periodicals
with the largest circulation in this country, and then
ask whether it might not be better if their readers
had never learned to read.
I do not suggest that we should abandon our
educational ideals, but I do most strongly suggest that
we should reconsider the means which we are using
and examine the consequences visible. If the educa-
tional system is to resist all those environmental fac-
tors which are working against the just exercise and
development of our minds, it must be drastically
overhauled and revised. Biaggini’s book indicates
the approach.
But it is not a book only for schoolmen. It is
a book for all who use words, and we all use words.
Its method makes it especially valuable to the plain,
puzzled man, for Biaggini takes good and bad pieces
of writing, contrasts them, explains what is good and
what is bad in them. I know of no other method
which can do anything for the bewildered man in
the street who has some vague yearning for the good
but whose tastes are so corrupted by constant
acquaintance with the bad that he cannot distinguish
for himself.
D.P. McGUIRE.
Compton Mackenzie's New Novel.
A major theme in Compton Mackenzie’s more
serious work has been the ferment of love and
religion in adolescence. Years ago he wrote Sinister
Street, in which youth struggles with love and faith
and gets them inextricably mixed. Behind the story
moved the pattern of an epoch in which outraged
mammas were apt to put Sinister Street in the copper
fire. In his latest and largest undertaking, The Four
Winds of Love, of which the first volume, The East
Wind of Love (Rich and Cowan ; Angus and Robert-
son ; Bs. 6d.), has just been published, it looks as if
we are to have Sinister Street restated in four volumes
to suit the more spacious times.
When the book opens John Ogilvie, aged seven-
teen, is still at school and very bored, but he soon
escapes from the tedium of school life and begins to
find his feet in the world. He first falls in love with
Connie, who is eighteen and would have responded
had she not found the difference of a year in their
ages too ridiculous to bear; then, more seriously, he
falls in love with Rose Medlicott. Their delicate,
innocent and ill-fated idyll recalls another early book
of the writer’s, Guy and Pauline. But these gentle
zephyrs are not the main theme of the book, the bitter
east wind. This is the tormented love that Miriam
Stern, a Jewess, forty years old, conceives for John,
whom her son Emil brings home from school. This
is an extremely difficult subject to handle and
Mackenzie is a very competent novelist. He does what
he can to win sympathy and credence for Miriam.
He sets beside her the softening parallel of John’s
father, who takes as his second wife a girl twenty
years his junior and makes a success of it. He makes
Miriam beautiful and unhappy, gentle and unselfish,
her love a tragic obsession, and he surrounds her
with a high-strung romantic .glamor.
Miriam Stern seated herself at the black Steinway
grand strung to concert pitch.... As almost always she
was dressed in black, and when she raised the lid of
the keyboard and ran her white fingers over the keys
the effect was of a slim mistress of haute ecole trying
the paces of a great ebony horse.
There follows a long passage in which she sets
her love, acknowledged at last, to the varying themes
of Schumann’s “Carnaval.” This is a magnificent
piece of virtuosity and goes far toward appeasing the
reader. But Mackenzie also loads the dice against
Miriam, and fatally, when he makes her son Emil,
brilliant—and twisted—also a candidate for John’s
love. The resolution of the situation proves just
beyond the author’s reach. John himself is a weak
link, for he lacks the charm, the appeal, that would
give root to the tragic coil. His character is unset,
wavering, ingenuous and supercilious. “I do like
Swinburne very much, but I don’t feel sure that I will
always like his poetry.” More light is focused on
him than the character can absorb.
It is, as ever, in his minor characters that Mac-
kenzie excels. The rank and file of the tale, chance
occupants of a railway carriage, cranks, among the
Jacobites, intellectuals at the theatre, are all drawn
with the greatest vivacity and give the book body
and flavor. The story of Miriam and John winds
its way through a large and crowded scene. The
story begins in 1900, and we are regaled with many
scenes suitable to the period retailed in great detail
a performance of “The Doll’s House,” a Jacobite
Society meeting, outings with the Loamshire Volun-
teers, debates on Ireland and discussions on every-
thing. The guns of the South African War rever-
berate, off, and the old Queen is buried in pomp.
Men and Brethren.
From his first book, S.S. San Pedro, the vivid,
circumstantial, entirely objective narrative of a ship-
wreck, to his latest, Men and Brethren (Longmans
Green ; 7s. 6d.), the story of two days in the life of
Ernie Cudlipp, • vicar of the slum chapel of St.
Ambrose in the incredibly rich parish of Holy
Innocents in an unspecified provincial town in
America, John Gould Cozzens has moved on from
objectivity to realism, and he has added a deep, if
hidden, idealism.
This idealism, passionate and innocent, is encased,
like a soft and milky kernel, in a particularly hard
and woody nut of realism. In its essentials the book
is an effort to reconcile the church with modern
conditions of life and to show how it can face to-day
without giving up a single tenet. If occasionally it
seems to be a book born out of its due time its
sincerity carries it through.
Men and Brethren covers two long days in the
life of Ernie Cudlipp. It is not so much a story as
a series of contacts, through each of which looms a
story, and all these stories, tragic, pitiful or astringently
comic, are bound together into a confused but
authentic whole by the personality of Cudlipp and,
behind that, by the driving conviction of the author.
Cozzens’s realism is beaten in with a hammer. The
background of Gudlipp’s life is drawn in hard, uncom-
promising lines. It is a background of utter squalor.
This environment, reproducing after its kind, gives
birth to ugly, stunted lives. Ugly things happen
there. Cudlipp is no beauty.
The grey flannel suit made his cheeks and forehead
look dark —liverish. Under his eyes he could observe a
slight but definite dark pouching. The lids lay relaxed,
the eyeballs seemed to start out, whites visible all
around the intense, small, darkly-blazing irises—the
effect was almost epileptic.
He is in money difficulties, he is worn out, he
doubts himself, his life is spent in a desperate effort
to bring the warring elements of his disjointed world
into a rational whole. His days are weary. He had
joined the church out of vanity ; he had then become
“passionately, priggishly broadminded and liberal,”
until he is forged into a realist. He carries his realism
to the point of arranging an illegal operation for one
of his parishioners because it is the least pf three or
four evils. “Don’t waste your time trying to change
things so you can do something. Do something, do
your Christian duty and you may hope that in time
things will change.”
The men in the book are all
Wilber, the Oxford Grouper, is one of those “robust
cold-bath-taking young men.... his brother’s kindest
and most persistent keeper.” Mr. Johnson, from the
mission fields of Alaska, knew so many Indian dialects
that he had almost forgotten English ; he is so simple,
so incompetent, that he sometimes has the courage
to be sublime. Another gives everyone a mild shock
because he is a well-dressed clergyman. Carl Williver
is rotten to the core ; the habit of piety survived
everything else. The women are not so convincing.
The hysterical Geraldine, who contemplates suicide ;
Alice Breen, the hard-bitten but roipantic actress;
Lulu Merrick, the dipsomaniac. They illustrate their
(Continued on page 8.)


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING” —and in every act.
Anthony Horderns’
THE SENIOR STORE.”
FAMOUS
FOR
LOW
PRICES.
r%
IN MENS WEAR
Money-saving days are here ... it is not every week in the year such
opportunities are open to you. Such values! . . . reduced in price. Such
qualities! . . . definitely unbeatable! Use our Deposit-Purchase System
to buy these end-of-Sale bargains if you have not the ready cash. A
deposit of one-fifth of the complete price enables you to secure any Sale
bargain. The balance can be paid in instalments, not less than monthly.
m
mm
zb-
/
4ii
Per Garment
• SUEDETTE PYJAMAS
B24l—Soft Med ium-weight Sleeping
Suits. Smart colourful stripes. These
are Anthony Horderns’ own full-fitting
make. In Small, Medium and Outsizes.
Price, pair 9/6
Easter Bargain Price 8/6
• ALL-WOOL UNDERWEAR
8242 Ideal Autumn Wear. Soft finish.
Full fitting. Best' finish. Undershirts
with short sleeves. Underpants to ankle.
Sizes 34in. to 44in. chest or waist.
Price, per garment 6/11
Easter Bargain Price 4/11
• CARDIGAN
8243 Fancy Jacquard Knitted Wear.
Soft, smart, warm. V-neck. Grey-
Black, Black-White, Brown-Fawn
tonings. All dressy designs. Sizes
36in. to 40in. chests.
Price, each . 21/-
Easter Bargain Price, each .. 16/6
@ PULLOVER
B244—Smart, New Winter Wear.
Fancy jacquard colourings. V-neck.
New designs. Grey-Black, Black-
White, Blue-Grey, Brown tones also.
Sizes 36in. to 40in. chests.
Price, each 19/6
Easter Bargain Price, each . . 15/-
m
Si
Snap Brim!
25/- PURE FUR <t Aj£
FELT HATS NOW 157/0
B24s.—Smart Shape for Easter Wear.
Good quality snap brims. Silk-lined.
Grease-proof leathers. Greys, Fawns,
Browns and Navy. All sizes. Price,
each 25/-
Easter Bargain Price, each .... 19/6
Newest Designs!
3/6 FANCY CASHMERE
HALF HOSE NOW
B246—Smart Socks in
new designs. All Woo
knit except the orna-
ments. Greys, Brown
and Navy tones. Sizes
1 Oin. to 12in. foot.
Price, pair 3/6
Easter Bargain Price, pair 2/6
m
m
i
H
M
96
76
9 LUMBER JACKET
B247—Men’s All Wool Lumber Jackets.
Winter-weight. Loom-knit. Smart
fancy designs. Step collar which
buttons up to neck. Two pockets.
Sizes 36in. to 40in. chest.
Price, each 22/6
Easter Bargain Price, each .... 19/6
Size 42in. chest, 1/- extra.
• BROADCLOTH SHIRT
8248 For Smart Easter Wear. British
Broadcloth Shirts. Two matching
collars. Double cuffs. Our own make.
Dressy Blue-Grey stripes on Blue
grounds. 14in. to 18in. necks.
Price, each 9/6
Easter Bargain Price, each .... 7/6
Mens Mercery Ground Floor, George Street. Freight paid to all railway stations in N.S.W. and seaports in the Commonwealth.
ANTHONY HORDERN and SONS Ltd., SYDNEY
’Phon*? 1 v , . f
Phone: M 2401. Day and Night,
Postal Address: Box 2712 C, G.P.O.


A Serial Story of the Queensland Coast
By
VANCE PALMER
ILLUSTRATED BY
CLAIRE DALLEY.
Chapter VI.
1.
HiVER the wide stretch of water, with its
purplish-brown patches where the under-
lying coral showed through, the Kestrel
moved at a steady four knots, engine shut
off, trolling-lines stretched out abeam.
There was just enough wind to keep the
sails filled: it came from the south-east and had a bite
in it. Winter was on her way at last, breaking in on
the long monsoonal calms. The sea had lost its oily
skin: it danced, sparkled, gave back the sky’s blueness,
and there was a salty freshness in its spray. From the
cays and islands around terns came floating like
feathers, poising for a few moments over the boat,
sweeping down the wind.
Buoyancy of trembling wood and canvas, bright-
ness of moving water tipped with myriad cressets.
What a joy to burst from the bondage of heat,
smothering cloud, torpid calm, to escape into this
world of icy air and brisk motion! You shed the
restraints of your body and wheeled with the wind-
blown terns, dipped with the plunging forefoot. You
soared over the flecked water to where the surf
thudded on bared reefs and white coral-banks shim-
mered like shapes of glass.
While Besanck steered and Charlie squatted on
the hatch preparing rows of baited hooks and swivels
Neil lay in a warm patch of sun, blinking as he looked
ahead. He was drowsy. For three nights he had
gone without sleep, sitting up with the slack line
between his fingers or helping Charlie haul up the
coral-anchor and move to another patch along the
reef. It was a thin time they had been having lately.
They had burleyed all their favorite fishing-grounds,
mixing a sardine paste and scattering it over the
sea-floor, but the only result had been a few small
snapper. Now, disgusted with their luck at the hand-
lines, they had taken to trolling.
Besanck had flatly refused to worry about the
fish: early each evening he had gone to his bunk to
read, smoke, sleep, enjoying the quiet as the boat
rocked steadily to her anchor. He could afford to
laugh at his two mates when he saw them move about
the decks leaden-footed, heavy-eyed. “Well, why
don’t you take it philosphically like what I do? If
the fish won’t bite go to bed and leave them. There’ll
be all the more in the water for next time.”
“Next time? We’re slipping further behind on
Langley’s books every trip.”
“That’s for Langley to worry over. A tradesman,
to worry about money is the business of his life.
Debts to him are like fleas on a dog—they keep his
mind interested.”
EDUT his quirks, his cool detachment, were begin-
' ning to prickle Neil’s skin. Leo, it was being
forced home on him, was not ready to pull his full
weight in the working of the boat. He threw himself
with gusto into any job that interested him for the
moment, but seemed to believe you could let a thing
go when you were bored. And he had narrowed his
responsibilities to the work of looking after the
engine. He enjoyed tinkering with it, taking it to
pieces at awkward moments: he even enjoyed steer-
ing when they were on the move, but he always liked
to have Charlie at his beck and call, ready to take
over the tiller or clear up the mess he had left. And
he shirked the drudgery of cooking, cleaning the
catch, keeping the boat trim.
Why should they have to depend so much on
Charlie? He had come on at first as an extra hand
to show them round the fishing-grounds and help
them grow used to the boat’s working, but gradually
he had become accepted as a fixed member of the
crew. And his wages made a deep slash into their
scanty earnings. Fishing, they had discovered, was
a game in which men had to cut very close to the
bone, even when times were good. Accounts for ice
and oil fuel, occasional repairs to the boat: these had
kept them from working off their debt to the store.
And Peter had been unable to fulfil his promise of
giving them carrying contracts up the coast. He was
falling on bad times himself, what with the decrease
in building and the difficulty of getting credit, and
was trying to make a little money out of his own boat
by bringing timber down from Sharon River.
All very well for Leo to talk about taking things
philosophically! He wasn’t driven by any urge to
put his life on a secure basis, build up a career: his
real world lay somewhere over the skyline, and he
could always pull out of the present venture when he
was tired of it. Luckily there were no signs yet that
he had had enough. Since he had become known
along the waterfront as one of the owners of the
Kestrel new social qualities had blossomed in him.
He was fastidious about his clothes when in port: he
liked meeting people, sauntering about the esplanade
in yachting-cap, silk shirt and flannels, occasionally
taking some girl to a dance.
The men along the wharves called him Alfonso.
“I say, Sandy, what’s Alfonso paying you to skipper
his yacht for him?” There was a sting in such sallies.
The Kestrel, they implied, that ragtime show!
Sprawling drowsy-eyed on the deck, Neil was
conscious of a faint grudge against his mate. He was
unwilling to let it spread. Better to take Leo as he
found him. For all his vagaries—peacocking on the
front, loafing in the cockpit—he was essentially more
serious than the old pots of Hunter-street who spent
all their time speculating fatly on council contracts,
fresh baits for tourists, new ways of bringing the port
into the limelight. Alfonso be damned! He knew
what Leo was.
And in the last six months they had spent good
days together exploring the dry reefs, mixing with
the lugger-boys and native fishermen sheltering from
sudden gales behind the cays and little islands. It
was a good world, even without money. He stretched
himself in the sun, soaked it in like a cat, ceasing to
worry about debts and empty ice-boxes.
«‘ [_] EY-Y!... Kingfish! ” It was Charlie’s voice,
vibrating suddenly on the air like a twanged
string, that roused him, made him leap to his feet.
Charlie had thrown down hooks and swivels and
sprung to the trolling-line that was whipping the
water behind. His back was bent in a bow, his naked
feet braced against a bollard, his arms moving like
pistons. The fish, fighting and leaping, came gradually
to the side and was swung with a jerk over the rails
to lie panting on the hot deck —three feet of dark-
striped silver, with pointed snout and murderous
teeth. No sooner was it slipped from the swivel than
a second line began to flog the water. Forty pounds
of plunging life, shot with the lightning of terror,
fought with Neil as he hauled on the tautened cord.
He was thrilled by the fire in his fingers, by the
bubbling thresh in the boat’s wake. After the dull
nights of reef-fishing this was lively work.
“Kingfish!” he called to Leo below.
“Eh?”
“Kingfish! We’ve struck ’em at last.”
They had struck them, without doubt. There was
no time to unhook a fish: fresh baits were lying ready
to snap on the swivels and send out again. And from
every side lean shapes swerved in to strike at the
gleaming lily-root. Kingfish! The sea was alive
with them, curdled with a faint patina of foam. Dim
green in the deep water, fluid silver near the surface,
they gathered in from coral-bank and sea-floor toward
the slowly-twirling bait.
Neil’s hands were already sore from hauling.
Charlie grunted as he dumped each fish on the deck,
now covered with blood and scales: even Besanck
sprang about light-footed, snapping fresh baits on the
swivels, jollying the other two along. “Keep it up,
you boys! This is only the beginning. Make one
good catch and your luck changes is what the old
owls along the waterfront say.” It was not sport:
it was slaughter; though now and then a monster
fish, leaping from the water, broke the line that held
him. Still the others came on, excited by the white
moving whorls as moths by bulbs of light.
For nearly an hour the attack lasted. Then it
ceased as suddenly as it had begun, the lines trailing
untouched through the still water. Backwards and
forwards they beat, lowering the mainsail and work-
ing with the engine alone, but there was not a ripple
on the surface, not even a bird on the wide horizon to
show where the shoal had gone. It was nearly sun-
down, and color fast going from the sea.
Neil, breathless and spent, looked at the catch
with satisfaction. “Not bad, eh, Charlie? Worth a
bit of battling for at sixpence a pound. Something
like half-a-ton you’d say, wouldn’t you?”
“More like three-quarter. First big catch of the
season, too.”
“Oh, well, I guess we’ll have our sleep out to-
night.”
The boy rubbed one bare foot on another, looked
at the bleeding wrist that had been slashed by a fin.
“Not if we have to make Port Cowrie. Close on
fifty miles we must be away from her. Better put
in at Tern Island.”
Neil hesitated. He was eager to get his catch on
the market, but it would take them most of the night
to reach the port and they were all dead-tired as it
was. Besides, there was all the work of gutting the
fish and packing them in ice: it would be easier to
finish it with a still deck under their feet. “All right.
Make for Tern Island.”
Rarely could he resist the temptation to put in
at that green-tufted atoll whose reef he had come to
know so well that he could have found his way
through the channel blindfolded. It had become a
second home to him. And even in the sweaty days
of the monsoon it had kept its virgin freshness.
HE awoke next morning feeling that he had had
his first deep sleep for days. The physical thrill
of the afternoon was stilt a memory in his muscles,
and, lying back at ease, feeling the boat’s faint rock-
ing, he let his mind repeat deliciously the movement
of hauling on the lines. What a gamble it was, this
game he had taken on, when a man could go without
a catch for weeks, then pull in forty pounds’ worth
in an hour! But the break had been made, the corner
turned. Up the coast all winter the shoals of kingfish
would be moving in the van of the south-east trades,
bringing them pleasant work and good money, giving
THE STORY SO FAR
Chris Sanderson, “ex-scrub-worker,
-contractor, -Cabinet Minister, undis-
charged bankrupt—a hell of a lot of
other things as well,” dies in Port Cowrie,
a North Queensland coastal town. Neil,
his son —they had met only once since
Neil was a youngster —buys a boat, the
Kestrel, and takes up fishing. Besanck,
whom he met in a cane-cutters’ camp,
goes in with him as partner.
Other characters are:—
Laura Clune, who runs Cayley’s, a
large new tourist hotel in Port Cowrie,
Corcoran, sub-editor of the Port
Cowrie “Times,”
Peter Jensen, an old Swedish car-
penter and boat-builder —he built the
Kestrel —and contractor who worked for
Sanderson in the early days, and
Freda, Jensens daughter.
There are increasing signs of a break
between Neil and Besanck.


them relief from the backwater’s dullness and the
ever-present worry of increasing debt.
He swung up on deck and stripped naked for a
swim, staring down into translucent water that seemed
to magnify every grain of sand, every fragment of
shell on the greenish sea-floor. Light poured in a
level flood of gold across the lagoon, making solid
things airy and insubstantial, giving the green-crested
island a glow of fire. Twenty yards out from it the
Kestrel’s dinghy lay anchored in a few inches of
water: Leo must have taken it ashore early, for
Charlie was still asleep below. There was no sound
but the faint silky swish of coral fragments on the
beach, the breathing of the tide at ebb. Even on the
reef the combers broke without noise, feather-soft,
dulled by distance, and niggerheads showed up
silently like seals in the channel as the waters poured
out over the coral floor.
A world beyond conflict; beyond movement of
time? Neil was lying motionless, eyes on a level
with the surface, when the undergrowth at the end of
the island broke open and three or four figures in
shorts, Leo’s among them, leapt down upon the sand.
Laughter, crystal-clear, floated across on the morning
air.
“Women!” thought Neil, making for the far side
of the boat. “Trust Leo to establish contact if any
were about. My God, if he isn’t the limit!”
His mind, as he climbed aboard and towelled
himself dry, was flashing back to Leo’s encounter
with Laura Clune. The old vamp had queerly man-
aged to lay hold of Leo’s imagination: hardly a day
passed without him bringing up her name. And wasn’t
it just possible that he had begun to hang around the
cocktail-bar at Cayley’s when he had any money?
It was an image of the Clune woman that came
before Neil’s eyes when there was a plash of oars
astern and Leo’s voice sounded out cheerfully: “Hey,
Neil! Are you awake, Neil? Don’t tell me you are
still asleep. It is a friend of yours I have here.”
Neil’s head shot belligerently from the cockpit,,
but his expression changed swiftly when he saw the
girl in blue shorts clambering aboard. She looked
extraordinarily like a boy, her fair hair cropped short,
her legs bare and burnt to a brownish gold, a light
buoyancy about her body as she drew herself over the
rails, dropped jauntily to the deck.
Seeing the blank look in his eyes she laughed
teasingly. “Hullo, Sandy! Struck dumb with sheer
astonishment, aren’t you, at seeing me here? Or is it
bad temper? You don’t look hospitable. Not the
least bit.”
CHE was all exuberance, glowing with health and
high spirits. He had not met her for months,
had hardly thought about her, yet here she was,
touched by some of the magic that had shone about
her when he had seen her first, dancing down the
stairs in her striped skirts.
His eyes suddenly flitted from her to Leo, whose
head had just appeared above the rails. Then she
and Leo had made contact at last!
“Why do you twit me with not being hospitable?”
he asked.
“You’re sober as an owl. Haven’t said a word.”
“I’m slow at taking things in. Always a little
behind the pistol... How did this happen, Freda?
Not your holiday, is it?”
“No—just an accident. School’s closed because
of an outbreak of typhoid at the mines twenty miles
away.”
“And you’re camping here alone?”
“Lucia and Katie are with me. You remember
Katie Cleves? Of course you remember her —you’ve
been seeing her often. Doherty brought us all here
with a load of stores: he’s going to call again in a
fortnight.”
She moved about the deck, feeling things with
her hands, childish in her bare feet, her crumpled
shirt and knickers. Her nostrils wrinkled at the smell
of fish: she peered down into the darkness of the
cockpit, where Charlie was still curled up in his
blankets. There was a breathlessness about her, a
physical intensity, as if she was living completely in
her senses, excited by the feel of the deck beneath
her feet, the sun’s touch on her skin, tang of tarred
canvas, flooding of light across the water.
“So this is the Kestrel,” she bubbled. “What a
thrill to be aboard her! I haven’t seen her since she
was just a shell lying in the slips. You’ve kept her
well in the background since you took her over —or
was I the one you kept in the background? Con-
tinually putting me off when I wanted to come down.
What about staying a couple of days, Sandy, and
taking us all over to Rennie Cay?”
The blood flowed up from Neil’s neck. He
hesitated, shook his head reluctantly. “Can’t, worse
luck. We’re bound home this morning with a load
of fish.”
“There’s nothing imperative about that. You’re
not working under orders.”
“Everyone’s working under orders at sea.”
She came over and put her hands on his shoul-
ders. “Oh, don’t be dumpish, Sandy. Life’s fun:
life s a game, not just a sentence of hard labor.
Whats the good of making a religion out of work?
Scrap those dreary notions of yours and learn to play
a little.”
He wavered under the appeal of her eyes. “All
very well for you, Freda. You’ve got holidays: we
haven’t.”
“Because you don’t choose to take them. The
fish will keep, won’t they? You’ve got ice.”
“Ice and stores for a long time,” Besanck put in
from behind. “Must I be the one to tell the truth?
We prepared to stay out over a week. But Neil, he
has come to think everything will crash if he is not
moving all the time. Getting ahead of other men.
Coming in first on the market.”
There was impishness in his eyes, mockery in
his voice. Neil flushed. “Nothing of the kind.
Anyhow, you’ve got just as much say in things as I
have. I’m not running the show on my own.”
“You’re not? My dear boy, who has decided that
we go back to port this morning?”
“I thought all three of us took that for granted.”
Stubbornness made his face heavy and dark: a light
smile played about Besanck’s mouth. The girl looked
from one to the other, aware of conflict, faintly
excited by it, conscious that it did not arise merely
from the matter in hand, but in some way involved
her.
“Then come over to our camp for breakfast,”
she said placatingly. “You can settle your plans
there. Katie and Lucia take for granted you’re com-
ing: they’ll have everything ready. Oh, look out!
The dinghy’s getting adrift.”
She sprang to the side to catch the slipping rope.
Neil dropped down into the cockpit to wake Charlie
and tell him they were
going ashore. He was
annoyed with himself as he
pulled on his sweater, sorry
for his churlishness about
staying. No need to pre-
tend a reluctance he didn’t
feel, put the onus of taking
time off upon Leo. It
didn’t really matter when
the fish got to market.
11.
*”7"HEY landed where a
f flowering hibiscus
spread its leafy
branches over the
beach, scattering sparse red
blossoms on the sand,
reaching nearly to the edge
of the water. Hidden in
the undergrowth were a
couple of tents and the
pleasant disorder of a
camp blankets hanging
out- to air, wet bathing-
costumes spread over the
grass, strange safes and
contraptions for food
depending from trees, from
cross-poles. A tall girl in
green pyjamas was bending
over the fire, stirring some-
thing with a fork ; she had
her head cocked slightly to
the side, her eyes wrinkled
against the smoke.
“Oh, you’re back at
last,” she called to Freda.
“Here, come and look after
the fritters: I haven’t had
my swim yet, and I’ve had
a simply foul time keeping
the fire going—the wood’s
all damp.”
She had a drawling,
indolent voice that was
touched with distinction:
so was her long, willowy
figure with its deliberate
slouch, her pale face
crowned by masses of
reddish-gold hair. The
other girl, Lucia, breaking
dry sticks in the under-
growth, was a little dark
dumpling with Italian
features and an instinct
for keeping in the back-
ground except when there
was work to be done.
Obviously it was not the
first time these girls had
camped together. They
knew the island, knew how
to make themselves com-
fortable, and had something
of the casualness of men in
their movements, their way
of portioning out the com-
mon work.
It was Besanck who
took charge of the party as
they squatted round the
ground-sheet for their meal.
High spirits bubbled from
him: he had donned the
cap and bells and was ready
to play the fool to the top
of his bent. Already the
girls were at ease with him, for his quaint apologies,
quaint show of embarrassment, had tickled them to
tears of laughter when he stumbled into their camp
before they had dressed. There was his accent, his
engaging air of innocence. You couldn’t be formal
with someone who so obviously belonged to a naive
and innocent world. They called him Leo, fed him
with questions, shrieked with enjoyment when he
described his first experience of going down after
a turtle.
“From the mast I see him lying on the bottom,
still as a rock. Dead, is it? Hey, I will have his
shell. I dive down with a rope, claw my way through
the water. Five feet, ten feet can my lungs hold
out? At last I have hold of him, try to slip the noose
over his head. Hell! what has happened? The floor
of the sea heaves under me, shoots me to the top.
Something has torn me chin to foot. My chest is
bloody, my pants gone.”
Every trace of self-consciousness had slipped
from him: he took a delight in making himself look
absurd. Neil, who knew the sardonic twist of his
mind, his secret contempt for most of the people he
met, especially women, was uncomfortable at seeing
this playboy side of him revealed: was it just the
influence of sex? Exasperating to find Leo much
more at home among these girls than he was. Even
with Freda. She squatted beside him, brown legs
crossed, pelting him with bits of coconut when he
fussed about a coral-scratch on her ankle.
(“But, please” “I don’t please”... “You
must be careful.” “Don’t be absurd!” “The danger


of septic” “Septic humbug!” “You are so
rash.”)
Abstracted, he sipped his coffee, let the talk drift
away from him. It was Leo's day and hour: better
let him have the full length of the rope. Deep down,
now that the first flicker of jealousy had passed, he
was pleased that these girls liked his mate. Leo the
playboy! The gay, light-hearted cavalier!
SILVER-EYES swarmed in the branches overhead,
watching for crumbs ; pigeons walked around the
group gravely on their pink, careful feet, herons stood
in a line along the beach, staring at their own images
in the wet sand.
“Who is he?” asked Katie, the tall girl, stretching
out on the ground with a cigarette. “Swede, I sup-
pose.”
Freda and Besanck had gone to scrub dishes at
the water-edge ; Lucia was building up the fire.
“No, Russian,” he told her. “Partly so, anyway.
Belgian mother.”
“Exile? Or just immigrant?”
“A little of both. He fought with Denikin or
one of those generals, I believe, though he doesn’t talk
much about it.”
“He’d better not if he wants to keep sweet with
Freda.”
“Why?”
“She’s red. They’d be at each other’s throats
in three minutes.”
“You think so? I’ve never found Freda so
terribly fierce.”
“How well do you know her?”
“I wonder. We saw a good deal of one another
at Christmas. We haven’t since.”
“I’ve known her since I was six. She’s not as
simple as she sometimes looks absorbed in skin-
foods and the triumphs of the hockey team. She’s all
a hot bubbling inside.”
“What about?”
“What do people get hot about? The future of
the world! All sorts of serious things. She nearly
lost her job for picketing during the railway strike.
I’m not serious myself. I prefer her when she’s in a
mood for play.”
Freda and Besanck were coming up from the
beach again, shaking their burnished pots, arguing
childishly about which of them had managed to get
theirs cleaner. Out on the Kestrel, three hundred yards
away, Charlie stood like an image in the stern,
patiently watching the shore. His upstretched hand
grasped one of the stays, his body had the slack
indecision of one who does not know what to do
with the time on his hands. Obviously he was eager
to get the anchor up and make back to port.
“We’re not going,” thought Neil. “A day or
two —we’re not driven by time. Leo would make a
racket if we talked about moving now. So would
Freda.”
They had squatted in the shade of the tent and
were peeling potatoes for the evening meal. Freda
was making Besanck repeat after her some word he
had mispronounced, and he was saying it with odd
emphasis, his face violently contorted. How good,
thought Neil, to see the simplicity with which they
could join in such antics! And how remote the mood
in which he was ready to risk a quarrel to prevent
their meeting!
Yet during the day it galled him a little to see
how inevitably the two paired off together in all the
excursions about the island. On the reef they went
far out, climbing to the very edge of the crumbling
brecchia where it fell away into deep water, perching
on a wave-worn boulder to watch the parrot-fish
dart in and out of hidden slots and caverns, the giant
clams opening their valves to expose rubbery colored
flesh, the shelled things crawling over the sand of
deep pools. But Besanck could not sit still for long.
Fish-spear in his hand, ankles bleeding from the
brittle coral, he clambered along the edge, balancing
himself on the broad lily-pads, challenging Freda to
follow him.
\ \ I ARMTH of winter sunshine, tang of drying weed,
* * pop and clack of unseen molluscs filling the air
with myriad tiny noises. While Lucia went off to
gather cowries Neil was left with Katie, who had cut
her foot and wanted to bathe it in a pool.
“You don’t mind loafing behind —or do you? I
never keep up with the other two, yet I hate seeming
a crock. Cerutti’s tough as leather, and Freda’s nearly
as bad. I’m always afraid they think me just fragile
—this side up with care.”
She hung her feet in the pool, stretching out on
the sun-warmed brecchia and narrowing her eyes
against the glare of the sun, the thin smoke of her
cigarette. A strange woman, older than the two
others, with a crust of langor and sophistication, and
a muffled discontent with herself underneath! Neil
lounged beside her, listening to her jerky talk with
half an ear.
She managed the ladies’ department in Berry and
Moon’s, the town’s most up-to-date store: she had
been married to an officer on one of the China boats,
but that was only an episode; she had never been
away from Port Cowrie except for a short trip to
Java. “That’s the sort of holiday I’d have chosen
this time if I’d been left to myself. A month of com-
plete change among people who know nothing about
you, who’re ready to take you at your face-value. To
put on a new skin, see the world with a fresh pair of
eyes. Often now just before I go to sleep I find
myself watching out of the window of a little train.
Rice-fields, water-buffaloes, naked brown youngsters
playing outside the kampongs, under the nutmeg-
trees.”
(She’s slipped and hurt herself. A silly risk,
scrambling out to that niggerhead! The tide’s coming
in: ought I to call out and warn her? Leo’s wading
after her, holding out the haft of his spear.)
“Or perhaps I’d have gone to stay at some tourist
hotel in the hills. Any old place where they keep a
good table and give you a chance to wear your
prettiest frocks. Sleeping all afternoon in dark cool-
ness, your face done up with creams, and fox-trotting
to a loud-speaker after dinner. I was brought up in
a hugger-mugger sort of way, and comfort’s everything
to me. Comfort and the illusion of being one of the
people whose photographs they print in those glossy
weeklies.”
(They’ve reached the edge again: they’re clamber-
ing up it. Freda’s soaked through: they both are.
What are they laughing at now? No joke if they’d
been cut off.)
“At least I sometimes imagine it is. To lie
back in a deck-chair, reading a fashion-paper, pre-
tending I’m a person of leisure, that I never have to
be anywhere at precisely half-past eight. But perhaps
that wouldn’t suit me as well as I think. How much
do we really know about ourselves?... You’re very
quiet.”
“People can only know themselves through the
sort of things they do. These comfortable holidays
of yours—you didn’t take any of them, after all. You
came over here to muck about a camp.”
“I’m lazy. I let Freda and Cerutti make up my
mind for me. They’ve so much more will than I
have and know exactly what they want.”
“You think Freda does?”
“Approximately. She’s never let anyone stop
her from doing anything she wanted to do. The
scandals she created as a girl—running wild around
Luggertown, making friends with the Chinese store-
keepers. She always felt there was more life in the
back streets: I think she does still. But I was born
in a back street, so my inclination is to move the
other way.”
K A IRAGES on the horizon, sandy cays appearing
* *1 for a moment at the sky’s edge, a smell of drying
turtle-weed, of half-dead coral, seeping up from the
warmed reef! Now that the lagoon was low the
Kestrel, lying at anchor in the channel, looked like a
wreck stranded among the niggerheads. The island
itself seemed to be raised high above the floor of
the withdrawn sea, a mound with white base and cap
of darkish green. Over everything lay an enchant-
ment, a sense of timelessness, and it was only the
incoming tide pouring over the dry coral that sent
them wading back.
At night after the evening meal they spread a
ground-sheet in front of the fire and lay sprawled
in the glow while Lucia tried one record after another
on the gramophone. The air had a faint chill in it
now the sun had gone, and the tide pounded on the
beach, shaking the coral foundations, washing the
roots of the great hibiscus that sheltered the camp.
Langor flowed pleasantly through the limbs of all of
them: their eyes, still dim with the sea-glare, traced
flowering masses of coral in the breaking coals.
Neil, lying on his elbow, watched the dim out-
lines of Freda’s figure, bare legs, drawn-up knees,
face illumined by the fireglow. She was silent, buried
in her own thoughts: he had rarely had a chance of
studying her features in repose, and now he had a
sense of surprising her unawares, like some bird
observed from cover. There was a little scar above
her right brow: it gave the lid a drooping effect. And
her eyes, staring into the fire, had a passionate intent-
ness, as if the music, the talk, had flowed away from
her and she was still perched on a rock in the sunlight,
. peering down into a pool. What was she thinking
about?
“Leo, it must be. She’s spent the whole day with
Leo. She wanted to know him: she’s satisfied now —
or is she?”
Besanck was still doing all the talking. The
music gave him his chance, and he let the girls drag
things out of him. He was not garrulous: he was
even diffident about answering their questions at first,
turning some of them off as a joke. But what hadn’t
he seen and heard? Chaliapin? Yes, he had heard
him sing, even met him once, a great roaring bull of
a man: it was in the days before the war.
(You’re drawing the long bow, Leo.)
But he liked the Cossack songs on the records
best. He had heard them often in the Caucasus, where
he was stationed with his regiment. No, he wasn’t
a Cossack himself. His father was a professor, his
mother a Belgian governess. But it was a Cossack
regiment he had joined when he went into the army.
A gay and reckless lot, but doomed—they were cut to
pieces in the offensive after the first Revolution. Most
of the officers killed, himself captured by the Aus-
trians.
(Liar! You hopeless liar,
One recounted experience led to another. He
was soon in full cry, talking about his past more
intimately than he had ever done on the boat. Yet
always with a smile of detachment, as if he was follow-
ing some young scapegrace for whom he took no
responsibility. Lucia and Katie lay stretched along
the ground, their eyes upon him, hanging on his
words. A few feet away Freda sat staring into the
fire, her chin in her hands. The great tree above them
shut out the night.
Moving about on the edge of the circle Neil
made coffee and cut sandwiches for supper, a queer
discomfort spreading through him. It came from
feelings too complex to fathom. He had wanted
them to like Leo, had been conscious of a small-boy
pride when he had first seen how his friend attracted
them: but there were limits. Was this the real Leo
they were getting to know or was it a figure of fantasy,
a jaunty soldier of fortune who had drifted about
from one strange country to another, having en-
counters with women, artists, bandits, finishing every
experience with a joke, never worrying about work
or money. The hero of a young girl’s novel!
He was impervious as wood when Freda sug-
gested that they should spend another day on the
island, going over to Rennie Cay in the boat. “Not
a hope! We’ve had our little spree. It’ll have to last
us for a while.”
“Surely you’re not so bound to the wheel as all
that, Sandy.”
“We’ve our living to earn. It hasn’t been a very
fat one so far. We’ll have to make the most of these
next few months.”
Darkness settled on his mind. He felt he was
acting as a killjoy, cutting a poor figure beside his
mate. How empty and unreal men become when
they are tempted to spread themselves in the company
of women! And what a relief to get away from an
atmosphere that was charged with personal essences,
subtle conflicts!
He had hardly a word to say to Leo as they made
their way back to the boat.
111.
VET he was surprised when Besanck himself
showed no disposition to talk about the meeting.
Surprised and a little piqued. It was baffling
the way Leo would retire into himself after any
contact that had drawn him out for the moment, close
the door, submerge himself with renewed intensity
in some interest from which he had been diverted.
His eyes at such times were dull and abstracted, or
if they showed any awareness of the people around
him it was to say “Well, that’s that. I have been
sociable, played the monkey, made a fool of myself;
now I withdraw into my own world.”
He was engrossed in a work on coral formations
he had borrowed from the School of Arts. As they
beat over to port he sat with his back propped against
the foremast, knees gathered up to the level of his
chin, jotting down notes in his small black book.
There was a curious absorption in the way he pored
over the text and diagrams: he had never shown any
interest in the coral itself, its delicate colors, its
bizarre designs. It was rarely, Neil reflected, that he
was stimulated by anything he had observed with his
own eyes. The theory was v/hat mattered, the easiness
with which some fact could be fitted into the general
design.
The island slipped away from them, became a
dark blur on the waste of heaving water. Still
Besanck did not look up from his book. Squatting
down on the hatch near him, wondering if he was in
a bad mood because of the decision to make back to
port, Neil said casually “It’ll have to be just in and
out again this trip. No time to waste now the king-
fish are in... You don’t blame me, Leo, for not
staying another day out there?”
Besanck glanced up, slightly raised his eyebrows.
“No. You think I so badly wanted to stay?”
“Didn’t you? You seemed to be enjoying your-
self.”
“Well, why not? \ It is not every day we have
such a break.”
“That was all it meant to you, then —a break in
the routine?”
Besanck closed his book, felt for his cigarette-
papers. “What more would one wish?... You are
angry, Neil. You think I make a fool of myself
with a pack of children, eh?”
“Children? The Cleves woman? Freda Jensen?
“Is it insulting to call them that? It is how they
seemed to me. Pleasant to play with, but not yet
mature.” h
Neil gave a movement of impatience. “Come on
it, Leo. You talk as if you’d grown white whiskers
overnight. What the devil’s your idea of maturity.
An amused gleam shone from Besanck’s eyes as
he rolled his cigarette and licked it. “You ask me


too much. How can one define it in words? It is
in the mind —it has not so much to do with how old
you are. These women would make life a pleasant
family game. Let us romp around in the sun. Let
us be girl-boys without age or sex. Create a new
Eden, eh, with no snake?”
Neil’s voice had a rasp in it. “I didn’t notice
that you were particularly unwilling to join in the
game, Leo.”
“No, I found it amusing for the time.”
“But it leaves you with a slight head. Suffering
from a hang-over, aren't you?”
“Put it that way if you like.”
Huffed by his mate’s cold-bloodedness, he went
off to relieve Charlie at the wheel. It was a hard
thing to stomach, this icy detachment of Leo’s, this
retreat from the ordinary human world into some
bleak region of the mind. How differently he had
reacted from his meeting with the woman from
Cayley’s! Was it because she had played up to the
male in him, made a more immediate appeal to his
senses? He had often said with a grin that he pre-
ferred the simplicities of Charlotte-street to the tire-
some indirectness of the beach-pavilion and the
esplanade.
OTANDING at the tiller, watching the mainland
ranges gradually take on shape and clearness, he
found pleasure in the thought that he had kept Leo
away from the Jensens. “Let him make his own
friends if he wants any. I’m not going to have him
crabbing at mine.”
A cloud settled on his mind, shut out the morn-
ing brightness. The day on the island seemed like
a green leaf curled up, turned to tinder. He had
been so naively proud of showing-off this mate of
his to Freda and the other girls.
But perhaps Leo’s present attitude was merely a
pose: perhaps he was a bit ashamed of the way he
had spread himself the night before around the fire,
inventing extravagant lies about his past. Looking
forward under the curve of sail he watched him
lay aside his book, yawn, wander forward to where
the gulls were wheeling down in front of the dipping
bowsprit and soaring off into the blue again. That
lithe figure with its baffling changes and its effect
of moving to spontaneous impulses! How ready the
girls had been to believe they knew him, to respond
to his gallantries and
swallow all he had told
them!
A couple of quick
reports like cracks from a
At night after the evening meal they spread
a ground-sheet in front of the fire and lay
sprawled in the glow .
slatting sail sounded out on the
still air. One of the gulls
fluttered, fell to the water,
recovered and swept off down
the wind again. The blood
surged to Neil’s head as he left the tiller and leapt
forward. “Put that damned gun away!”
On Besanck’s face as he turned there was a look
of astonishment. “Eh?”
“You heard me well enough. Put that damned
gun away or chuck it overboard.”
It was his tone, the smoky violence of his eyes,
that embarrassed Besanck. “Why, Neil, what has
bitten you?”
“You know as well as I do. We’ve had it out
before. Shooting at birds that are no use even if
you knock them! If you bring that infernal thing
aboard you’ve got to keep it till it’s needed!”
“Only use it on human beings, eh?”
“Just as you like. There’s a risk about that,
though—you might find someone who’s quicker than
you are on the trigger. This potting at harmless
birds! Even the colored boys on the luggers wouldn’t
do it.”
Besanck smiled as he broke the revolver open and
ejected the empty shells. There was no responsive
heat in his eyes, only an amused tolerance. “It is
shameful of me, Neil. I ought to have remembered
your little weakness. These romantic feelings of
yours about birds, about animals—they are hard for
me to understand, but from now on I shall respect
them. No more interference with the natural world.
Amnesty to everything but fish, eh? When I want
to improve my shooting I shall pick on something
that engages no one’s sentiment.”
He put his arm around Neil’s shoulder and jollied
him good-humoredly as they walked aft. There was
sincere regret beneath his gibes.
Charlie had come up to look after the tiller:
they were rounding the first buoy. Watching the
timbered shores slipping past, the waterfront becoming
clear, Neil had a feeling of discomfort, of confusion.
Was it because of a shot gull that that wave of
underground passion had broken over him?
IV.
BUT now that the busy season was upon them,
the season of big catches and quick returns,
I they had less temptation to probe into their
differences or let their minds stray from the
day’s work. Winds blew steadily from the south-
east: the sea that all summer had been still as a
shallow pond was now tipped with whitecaps,
freshened by the Pole’s breath. From the slap
and tumble of moving water, the darkness of
clouded night skies, they beat into the crowded
port, unloaded their catch, moved out again filled
with ice and stores. There was excitement in
running before the wind with cross-poles out and
lines trailing astern, waiting for the first tug and
flurry that would tell them they had struck
a shoal. Life moved to a livelier rhythm
now the kingfish had come. The narrow
waters were filled with craft: smacks
of coastal fishermen, pleasure-launches, luggers skip-
pered by Japanese and manned by native boys,
combing the reefs for trochus and beche-de-mer.
The port itself had changed as though taken over
by an invading army. Tourists poured out of the
weekly boats, filling the hotels along the esplanade,
overflowing into private homes and boarding-houses,
giving a crowded, self-conscious look to the streets
as they meandered about in their plus-fours, cameras
or field-glasses strapped to their shoulders. Chara-
bancs left daily for the hills, gaudy lettered signs
stretched across their windscreens: men with compli-
cated fishing-tackle hung about the wharves waiting
for boats to take them out beyond the beacons: there
was an atmosphere of holiday, of distraction. At
night the air vibrated with loudspeakers as old men
and young women jazzed over polished floors, their
faces flushed with the day's sun, their eyes dazzled
with the memory of bright wind, blue water.
And the centre of this new flutter of life was
Cayley’s, the ideal home for tourists, the most pre-
tentious hotel between Sydney and the ports of Java.
There was no hint about it of its origins. Covering
with its voluminous skirts the site of Cayley’s first
shanty, it towered up over the flimsy buildings around,
sending its glitter of lights across the bay, announcing
that the struggle had been won, the goal of the early
pioneers reached, that the comforts of civilised living
could be had by all who had the money to pay for
them.
Neil, beating backwards and forwards at his
work, was quickened by this show of prosperity in
his own way. Ideas of organisation were germinating
in his mind. Why shouldn’t the fishermen pool their
savings and build cool chambers where the fish could
be kept on ice when there was a surplus? There
happened to be a glut now and prices were going
down. In a little while the slack season would be
round again, with dealers clamoring for fish and
none to be had either by trolling or with the line.
Why let themselves be caught between these two
extremes of plenty and famine? They had the industry
in their hands and could control the supply.
But when he urged his suggestion, in bars, at
gatherings in the sheds along the estuary, the same
snag always cropped up. “Going to let the bulls in
on it?”
“I don’t see why not, if they like to come in.
You can’t make the thing water-tight if they’re left
out. And there’s no color-line at our game.”
“It’s not a matter of color: it’s a matter of work-
ing with blacklegs. If everyone’s catch was going into
a common pool it’d be different. But where you only
draw out what you put in You can’t trust the
bulls. They’re dynamiters, and they have the pull
on us.”
“But there’s a law against using dynamite. Why
not get it tightened up?”
“Easy to say: not so easy to do. How’re you
going to prove that any boat got its catch with Nobel’s
bait?”
“There’s ways of telling. A careful examina-
tion”—
“Careful poppycock. Who’s interested in finding
out how a fat coral-cod died? The people waiting
for the fish?”
They were full of instances of how boats
belonging to Albert, Charlie’s uncle, had come
in laden with dynamited fish and had unloaded
them under the very noses of the police. The
very best fishing-grounds along the Reef had been
spoilt by a promiscuous use of explosives. How
could you work on level terms with a crowd like
that?
All along the waterfront the matter had only to
be mooted to rouse heat among the fishermen. “The
bulls! Great idea it’d be to give them the benefit of
our organisation, wouldn’t it? No, I guess it’s better
for each of us to pole along on his pat than work in
with that bunch of blacklegs.”
It was not that they had any moral objection to
using explosives, but dynamited fish had to be dived
for, and there the blacks had the advantage. Even
the Kestrel fell under suspicion, for it employed
Charlie, who was like a seal in the water... “Been
having good catches lately, Sanderson? Beginner’s
luck, eh?”... Neil knew the meaning of the indirect
phrases, voices that began to say something and then
faded away into thin air.
He was hot with the thought that they believed
him to be playing an underhand game, but whenever
he let himself go Besanck was at his elbow, laughing
at his concern. “What does it matter? We are inde-
pendent—we make our own way. That means we can
dispense with a reputation for high morals. Freedom
(Continued on page 50.)


respective points in the narrative, but beyond that
they do not come to life.
Men and Brethren is a masculine book, compact
and strong, and it wrestles gamely with its tough and
inconclusive problem.
Australian Writers: M. Barnard
Eldershaw.
The two writers who collaborate under the name
of M. Barnard Eldershaw are Marjorie Barnard and
Flora Eldershaw. Both are Australians of the third
generation, and both are graduates of Sydney Univer-
sity. Miss Barnard’s home is at Longueville, Sydney,
overlooking the Lane Cove River and opposite
Hunter’s Hill, the scene of the latter part of A House
Is Built. Miss Eldershaw’s family home is in the
Riverina, where she was born, “in the exact middle
of a family of seven.” Her occupation is head mistress
at the Presbyterian Ladies’ College, Sydney. Miss
Barnard until recently was librarian at the Sydney
Technical College, a position she resigned to devote
herself more closely to creative literature. Except for
journeys to Europe, both women have led lives exter-
nally uneventful, but even the most cursory exami-
nation of their work discloses that deep sensitiveness
to life which is the true gauge of experience.
Their books, A House Is Built, Green Memory
and The Glasshouse, stand up well to re-reading. You
can open at random, start in the middle of a page and,
with only a guess at the part’s relation to the whole,
read just for the feel of the work. Take this, from
a chance opening of Green Memory :
His grief possessed him; it swept
through him like a high wind. In Clarissa
Haven the feeling of her inadequacy eclipsed
all the other emotions of this night. When
he spoke of his shame his voice took on
the lustre of passion. He kindled with fires
she could not comprehend. It had always
been so. His grandiloquence had always
lifted him a little out of her reach. In
the early days of their marriage his love had
been like this, and she had turned it over
and over in her hand like a pleased but
puzzled child, delighted to find herself so
powerful and charming, but quite at a loss
as to the reason. She could not follow
his flights, and so he remained a rather
miraculous person to her, the spring of his
emotions hidden from her. He did not
belong to the proportions of her mental and
emotional world.
The foregoing is as typical of their
treatment of life and delicate prose style
as a brief quotation could be. The out-
standing qualities of their work are ability
to realise and show to a fine shade of
meaning the more delicate human relation-
ships, a quick ear for the faint noises of
life and the power to reveal the signi-
ficance underlying the commonplace.
M. Barnard Eldershaw’s work shows development.
The Glasshouse, their latest book, though not by any
means their most important contribution to literature,
is, on the whole, their best-written book. It is at one
with itself in a degree that A House Is Built is not, and
it moves more directly to its appointed end than
does Green Memory. If the statement that their best-
written book is not their most important seems para-
doxical it needs to be pointed out that theme and
treatment, where a writer’s development is being con-
sidered —and development is the only proof of con-
tinued vitality—must be evaluated separately. . Theme,
as a glance at any writer’s work will show, is some-
thing largely in the gods’ giving ; treatment, artistry, is
the element wholly within the writer’s control.
The Glasshouse is the most truly Australian of
M. Barnard Eldershaw’s books. A House Is Built
has a conscientious Australianism, a faithfully
depicted though quite conventional backdrop; but
it might, with an adjustment of externals, be taken
as the social scene of any place colonised by Great
Britain. The feeling of Australian earth
influencing character and outlook is not there. It
makes a first and rather striking appearance in Green
Memory, very suitably to the period—the 1860’s—
in the effect of some Australian trees on an English
girl. On the eve of her betrothal she sees in them
a vague menace.
Lucy, alone of the Haven children, had been born in
England, and yet her English birth was something she
valued and a source of value in herself. She at least
had no part with the frieze of lemon-gums and their
wild, inaudible music. The garden was full of English
trees and flowers; out of many acres of bush only
those gums were left—on sufferance. She liked to think
that, for all their air of ancient magic, they were there on
sufferance. They woke in her a little creeping cruelty.
They were like a tiny leak in her four-square, arrogant
w0r1d....
The gum-trees are repeated in the book’s pattern ;
they recur when Lucy, defeated, relinquishes her
attempt to maintain the social pride of her family in
the face of sudden impoverishment.
The feeling of The Glasshouse takes off from
this. It is the story of an Australian woman novelist’s
homeward voyage from Europe aboard a Norwegian
cargo boat carrying about a dozen passengers a
Belgian boy, an English couple, the rest Australians.
It is a study in malice tempered with toleration. The
novelist, moved by the study of her fellow-passengers
in their shipboard life —shown by M. Barnard Elder-
sliaw with great naturalness—is moved to write imagi-
native stories about several of them, purporting, in
each case, to be a revealing or crucial episode in their
lives. These are embedded in the narrative of the
voyage, which is, in effect, the revelation of the novelist
herself. She falls in love with the Norse sea captain
and triumphs over a rival —a strikingly well-handled
situation this —but the sailor, after awakening hope,
decides to stick to his ship. Stirling Armstrong
reaches home ports like a vessel limping in with
empty holds and a bent propeller-shaft.
The pull of Australian earth for most of her
voyaging children is implicit in the story. Even
though Stirling realises in the hour of defeat that
“you cannot lay your head upon the bosom of a
continent,” it was homeward that she turned when
the life she had made for herself in her London flat
began to taste stale. An outward Australian view
is well shown in the study of the Devlins, man, wife
and infant child. Mr. G. V. A. Devlin told Stirling
that they were going only as far as Cape Town, “speak-
ing, she thought, a shade triumphantly... .He was
probably going out to a job in Africa, sorely needed,
nonchalantly taken, and not letting the Empire know
how acutely he needed sustenance from it.” The
good-looking young Mr. Devlins are a feature of the
English social scene, but it is doubtful if it would
have occurred to anyone but an Australian to have
seen them in just, that light. A conversation between
Stirling and the ship’s doctor, another Australian,
besides giving a sample of M. Barnard Eldershaw’s
dialogue—slightly abridged—expresses an Australian
inward view:
“This your first trip to Australia?”
“I am an Australian.” Always when she said that it
was as if she had bared her heart to a blow. Years in
MARJORIE BARNARD AND FLORA ELDERSHAW.
England had done that to her, a spiritual gesture she had
never weeded out.
“A sentimental journey?”
“Yes, perhaps.”
“Of course you are one of the exiles.”
She smiled, not looking up.
“The Australian exile is quite a feature of the
modern world. We export ’em like the Swiss used to
export mercenaries. It’s the background.”
“Background,” she echoed, only half as a question.
“Yes, didn’t you ever notice, the Australian scene is
always in two parts, background and foreground, and
they never come together. We have the. loveliest
distances in the world and the ugliest foregrounds,
and it’s in the foreground that we have to live; but
when we go away we remember the background.”
“The plains silvery-brown, a red road that is going
a hundred miles at least, a fringe of gum-trees that
100k —oh—fugitive, as if they might go off in the night,
the blue wall of the mountains, the sky very high and
pale, with one crow cawing, so that the world sounds
hollow.”
“Even the telegraph poles have a pioneering look,
strung out across the plains to the horizon.”
“And the shadows of clouds sailing over the grass.”
“You’re thinking of the Emu Plains, aren’t you?”
“I grew up there”
“And I think of a great golden, cloudless sunset I
once saw on the plains. The sky was pale apple-green.
There 'was silence except for a little thrilling noise the
grasshoppers or some such were making in the still,
warm grass. There was a mob of sheep being driven
towards the sunset in a cloud of dust. They were
purple.” He knocked out his pipe. “That’s the back-
ground. It’s not the part we live in.”
“No, we live in the hot, droughty foreground and
suffer from rabbits, suckers and fruit-fly.”
“And we build ourselves little wooden boxes to
live in. They’re hot in summer and cold in winter and
depressingly ugly all the time.”
“And when we make money we build even Uglier
brick villas and buy a wireless.”
“The background never belongs to. us. It’s beautiful
and strange, and moving but you can’t possess it. It
doesn’t give us a lead to tell us how we should build
and live and comport ourselves. It isn’t domestic.”
A flush had come to Stirling’s cheeks. She lifted
her head and looked out over the water.... “You talk
like -an exile, too.”
The Glasshouse, in a more special sense than
most books, depends for its success on the quality of
the last three or four chapters, describing the close
of the voyage. In them reality answers all that was
previously speculative. They are excellent.
Green Memory, to many readers, came as a
disappointment after A House Is Built, a feeling that,
in view of the book’s quality, was without warrant.
The difficulty seems to have been a change of inten-
tion on the part of the writers that, though clearly
foreshadowed in the latter part of A House Is Built,
caught many unprepared. It is in the minor key, and
the romantic element, except in the infrequently-seen
character of Richard Temple, Lucy Haven’s lover,
is almost absent. A minor malfeasance, combined with
the exigencies of politics, brings about the disgrace
and dismissal of Alfred Haven, a charming but brittle
man, from high Government office. By a ruse the
father of Lucy’s lover prevents his son from appear-
ing at her betrothal party. Haven, partly as a theatri-
cal gesture and partly as a result of a recriminatory
outburst to which Lucy gives way, commits suicide.
“Lucy’s remorse was like a hedge of spears about
her.” To assuage this remorse, and to some extent
from sheer personal pride, she dismisses her lover and
sets her family, in their new poverty, to maintain their
social ideas. The boys, Charles and Gerald, she
regards as the family’s potential assets. They are to
be educated at no matter what cost in privation.
Everything is to be “as Papa would have wished.”
That is the “green memory” of the title ; it persists
to the end.
The book shows M. Barnard Eldershaw’s trend
toward recurring motifs and interrelated patterns.
It is young Gerald, repeating his father’s defects of
character in the school world, who is the instrument
of revealing Lucy’s defeat to herself. Charlotte, who
promptly defected from the family ranks by marry-
ing a rich young man, uses persistent good nature —
a material inheritance—as a weapon against Lucy
in a struggle for the possession of the mother and the
child Mina. She is shown in the end attempting
a spiritual theft of her infant son from her young
husband in the hope of raising him in the image of
Alfred Haven. The book, though it hasn’t quite the
same economy in narration as The Glasshouse, is
successful; but obviously it calls for some detach-
ment on the part of the reader.
A House Is Built is the book by which M. Bar-
nard Eldershaw is most widely and favorably known.
It is one of the half-dozen Australian novels that
have reached the general consciousness of the race.
Its picture of the times of which it deals
is accepted as an authentic part of the liter-
ary vision of Australia. Its characters are
firmly established in the front rank of
our fictional hierarchy. It has succeeded
—at any rate, in the popular sense-
through its all-round vigor and the appeal
of its romanticism. Neither its defects nor
its more significant qualities are of a kind
to impinge very deeply on the general mind.
To take these in their turn: The hand of
the tyro—naturally enough—is evident in
the early chapters. The minor key seems
to be M. Barnard Eldershaw’s forte, but,
not having discovered that, they waver
between minor and major. They are un-
certain of their attitude toward their char-
acters and even of their attitude toward
writing novels. The occasional scraps of
humor are not integral to the story, but
more in the nature of flashes of jocularity.
There are even touches of sentimentality.
Occasional scenes are overdone. The his-
toric illusion is sometimes shattered for
the sake of a valueless observation. Twice
—once late in the book —a page or two
of historic information still smelling of
midnight oil is inserted. There are minor historical
inaccuracies.
However, these in the main are surface blem-
ishes, and it is surprising what a bold narrative—
as distinct from the slighter “pattern of life” —will
stand in that way if the author tells it simply and
directly. The essential integrity of M. Barnard Elder-
shaw’s story is not affected.
The handling of the material becomes much
better after the arrival of Adela, William’s fiancee, in
the quartermaster’s household. There occurs, too, at
about this time a definite modulation to the minor
key which is maintained to the end —the writers are
comfortably seated. This brings us to the qualities
that are apt not to be fully appreciated. The roman-
tic, and popular, image is of the quartermaster and
his young, crinolined daughters. But the plump
and fruitful Maud of later years and the spare, re-
pressed spinster that Fanny becomes are much
stronger work. The quartermaster “is a great char-
acter.” But so are the others, William, Benjamin,
Shirley, Euphemia, Fanny, Maud, Adela, James,
Lionel. It is quite arguable that Fanny is the book’s
outstanding piece of characterisation. The quarter-
master is a fine conception, but he is easy to manage.
He is static by reason of his maturity, and he doesn t
grow old; he falls sick and dies. The others march
with the years. We see birth and death, growth and
decay, the developing and warping of natures. Per-
sons disappear, and when seen again cognisance has
been taken of the passage of time. The long time-span
of A House Is Built gives it what is probably its
greatest quality: sustained movement in all its parts.
It seems that there are still many people who
want to read A House Is Built —or to read it again.
Its sales now total close to 30,000 and a new edition
is in the press. It has been read wherever English
is used. We are lucky to have it, for it is doubtful
if its authors, without quite abandoning the existing
trend of their work, could write it now. It is at
variance with itself in that it strikes the romantic
and positive notes in the beginning and ends on the
negative and ironic—the writers’ discovery of them-
selves. A House Is Built has a certain obvious—
though quite legitimate appeal. It deals with a
significant period. Its grand parade of life passes
through a wide-sprung arch; the long ago, the estab-
lishment of a nation, the convicts, the whalers, the
discovery of gold, the founding of a family, with the
courageous, energetic, kindly, confidence-inspiring
figure of the quartermaster —an aspect of the uni-
versal father —for an imposing keystone. Anyone
could grasp the idea. M. Barnard Eldershaw s later
work eschews the obvious.
Bibliography: A House Is Built (Harrap, 1929);
Green Memory (Harrap, 1931); The Glasshouse (Harrap,
1936); Plaque with Laurel (Harrao, 1937).
FRANK DALBY DAVISON.


“Equal to a
fine liqueur ”
a
m
5^
/•
//' /■'///.
• ,:*:%#
/y x
w^iZ*fiWy222m&BZ, -J®B%os£MrMEEs
‘ jS “I can tell
White Horse
blindfold! „„
velvety softness, the slow spreading glow; everything, in fact, that
makes White Horse Whisky the equal of a fine liqueur."
WH3A-37
Screw cap flasks of convenient sizes
on sale everywhere at popular prices,


ROYAL
PURPLE
PARA
sfl
Mil
%
:...*/•• ,
1
'
m
pfS; : |L ’ >.
;. It.
IZf. ‘I *J.vj
; 1 '“;'’' ;
&5 1
&■: -, pp
-C-. ' ;
r *
Slfesi
m
~ Z.'. ->— ft
■
liliti
■i
m
■■■-.
/ '-;
»**«
: JiN^as
i i
**>* * ! al^
L # >i. ._« * auA_L<
f. ■:
<8
H ■
s
£&*At -
v ■
-
L_L
Al
W 1
! -IV V *..;*
*v
M
1
lUBsl
1
Tmfi
j*iv £ C
. M 1
fc ;: '• ' :
fcStas
■ '' * m < f *!-,
f| *• - .
Nit !
- *
I P* %
r> ?■*-
CS
*!;n»
LL&^
m 1 > * «-.
II
.
Labelling Department—Bottling from One of the Vast Storage Cellars.
ine


THE SIXTEEN-INCHER.
“Japan has refused to accept the limit for naval guns set down in the new London Naval-Treaty. Battleships will now mount 16in. guns instead of the 14in. originally
proposed.”
OUR WAR-LORD: “Sixteen inches? It’s the very length I’ve advocated all along!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : National Mutual Buildings, 91
King William Street, Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Saywell Buildings, 115 Lambton
Quay, Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London,
E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji and
United Kingdom via “All Sea Route,” 2d. New
Hebrides and United Kingdom via France or
America, 3d. To all other places, 4d.
J. BULL ENDS A JAG.
All who look on lohn Bull with a friendly eye
wondered how long he was going to keep up the jag
he has now brought suddenly to an end. While it
lasted it was an inglorious bender ; anyone less sturdily
constituted would have sunk under it. Recovered, he
faces the world a better-looking figure than he has
appeared in years.
By a stroke of poetic justice, a principal witness at
this reformation has been Sir Samuel Hoare. At the
height of the jag—when Bull was shambling
bewilderedly around with a glazed look in his eye,
snoring about on public seats, trying to look dignified
with his coat on back to front, deluded into thinking
the hollow cane in his hand was a heart of oak, dossing
at large with any nondescript ragtag, a figure of fun
for cocksparrows to mock with impunity, prestige and
traditional vigor toppled together in the. dirt—that
doughty knight, one of the most faithful retainers
about him, had been gruffly dumped.
These events are rounded off by that lively recent
work, New Defence Estimates. So are many other
things besides.
As a family man it was about time Bull turned
it in. The jag, as well as doing him personally con-
siderable material and moral damage, was setting a
very bad example. Among other occurrences there
was extended to him, in the midst of his cups, the
most derogatory gesture that had ever come his way
in a long and not unmixed career. This was the
defection of his own sovereign lord at a beck from
Cupid. It is very doubtful if anything so uncom-
plimentary to the state of his prestige could ever have
occurred if his temporarily-abandoned prestige had
been there as a bulwark.
The thing really at fault' in that unhappy affair
was nothing other than the. general low condition of
Bull, produced by a jag prolonged over years. As
Bull, sober, would readily admit. It will indicate that
some lingering effects of the jag remain if he does
not advance a generous endowment to this now Duke
of Windsor. With reason, Bull might ask himself, in
concluding this matter, whether in his then abandoned
condition he did not invite and contribute to his being
himself abandoned. He has additional cause for
gratitude to the ex-King, on the score that nothing
contributed more than this affair towards bringing
Bull’s loose, living to an end.
At the start of the jag Bull also had worked on him
a confidence trick so barefaced that, sober, he would
have roared with mirth at the sight of it. Briefly, an
eminent United States Doctor of Philosophy crossed
the Atlantic disguised as a midwife carrying a helpless
infant flippantly christened League of Nations, left
this infant on Bull’s doorstep and hastened back to
his own country, which signalled his safe return by
lustily disowning the brat. Sober, Bull would have
sent it back with good wishes. On the jag, he took it
to his bosom, nourished it, fathered it and mothered
it, until he was convinced that he had produced it
himself.
Forthwith he led his assorted hangers-on into
building for the brat a palace that would have done
justice to the architectural imagination of the Grimms,
hiccuped to the effect that he would lay down his
life to uphold it there, and in time went within an ace
of having to take the risk. When that time came, and
he had a choice of wading into what would certainly
have spread into a world war or suffering another
heavy blow to prestige, fuddled as he was, he saw that
the second course, however distasteful, was the better
of these evils. He saw also that the “life” he had
pledged had become really nothing to brag about and
—family man —that the state of his offspring, including
the lackadaisical one called Australia, was even worse..
He took what was coming to him, which was the
world’s laughter directed openly at him and his foster-
brat. This also contributed towards sobering him ;
therefore he should never think too hardly of Dr.
Wilson.
Additionally, in the thick of the spree he per-
formed the prodigious feat of swallowing as perfect
a specimen of a gold brick as this world has ever
seen. The object of this gastronomical performance
was brought to the tippled-indulgent Bull by his then
favorite cupholder, the elegant Mr. Eden. This was
that a place named Russia, though it was getting
together the biggest army and the greatest flock of
fighting aeroplanes on earth, was the most pacific-
minded of all nations, had turned over a new leaf by
abandoning its continuously avowed intention to wreck
the. peace of Europe, and had signified as much by
singing “God Save the King.” After that, it naturally
came as a shocking surprise to Bull when it was sub-
sequently borne in on his bewildered wits that this
pacific country had gone on to signify what it thought
of the King and everybody else by engineering a war
in a place called Spain, and a horribly bloody and
fearful war at that. Bull should not turn dog on Mr.
Eden, for this also helped to sober him.
It is redundant to suggest that none of these things
would have prevailed for a minute on the staunch old
sober Bull. His prolonged spree had other results.
Among his offspring, particularly the one called Aus-
tralia, it had an exceptionally corrosive effect. In this
place the Government, by an effort of sublime, genius,
had brought forth the slogan “Tune in with Britain.”
Mistaking this for a policy, it proceeded to do so,
with the result that it shared equally in all Bull's
fuddled blunders and humiliations. Carrying imita-
tion to ludicrous lengths, it, too, went on a jag and,
having none of Bull’s powers of recovery, is still on
it, staggering along without direction or leadership,
helpless and defenceless.
That, also, has helped to sober Bull. His recovery
pledge is a Navy cheque for £100,000,000 and a rush
order for 80 new ships. By the end of this year he will
be building the extraordinary number of 148 new
vessels, including five capital ships, four aircraft car-
riers and 17 cruisers. He proposes to set afloat a
Far Eastern fleet —which is the item that most directly
concerns Australia —as strong as the Home and the
Mediterranean fleet. “The size of this programme is
the measure of past deficiencies,” commented Sir
Samuel Hoare, bitingly remembering. Additionally,
£82,174,000 goes to the Army, a solid increase ; and
expenditure of £82,500,000 on the Air Force repre-
sents a lift from 35 squadrons that guarded the care-
less Bull to 124 squadrons, a peace-time defence
expansion without parallel in Bull’s history.
To the offspring of J. Bull it signifies that Bull is
back from his fuddled nursing of other people’s brats
and the rest of the foolish caperings that marked the
worst masquerade of a foreign policy he ever set his
name to. It' is a challenge to them and an inspiration
to match his vitality with their own.
Australia's Power Problem.
Present annual oil and petrol supplies produced in
the British Empire could barely carry the Navy,
Army, Air Force and sea transport through a week
of war. An astounding fact, but beyond question.
The new British ships, on the stocks or about
to go on the stocks, if they are all oil vessels, would
burn 13,200,000 gallons of oil on a week’s patrol.
In the event of war in which supremacy of the Pacific
and the Mediterranean was involved the Navy would
use the whole of the Indian, Bornese and Dutch East
Indian and Iranian oil, plus as much of the Russian
supply from Baku as could be had.
Australia would be worse off, being isolated. It
would have to depend on oil and petrol supplies
carried 6000 miles-odd across the Pacific from San
Pedro (California) or the “Gulf Coast” (New Orleans,
9400 miles). The U.S.A. Neutrality Act could block
these sources of supply. Moreover, growing air forces
throughout the world and multiplying mechanical
transport units would, in time of war, make such a
drain on petrol—as distinct from residual oils such
as fuel, tractor and Diesel oils —that even with care-
fully guarded lines of communication Australia would
be in a very serious position.
Well aware of that, both Commonwealth and
State authorities have for the past three years been
anxiously considering production of oil from coal.
Till a few days ago there seemed to be two schools
of thought: politicians and Government officials were
sanguine; experts were doubtful. Mr. Stevens, when
in England, was informed that the Imperial Chemical
Co. had reached the stage where it was possible for
them to design a plant for Australia. Last August
Mr. Bruxner was “confident” that work would begin
soon. David Rivett saw “no serious technical diffi-
culties,” and was deeply impressed by the German
plants. In October Mr. Stevens told West Maitland
(N.S.W.) people that the Government intended to
facilitate the erection of a plant to extract oil on the
northern coalfields:
A company already existed here which would go
ahead subject to being given the necessary guarantees of
remissions of Federal excise, stability of labor con-
ditions and settled prices.
He also said that arrangements were to be made
to train operatives in England, and that Lord
McGowan, chairman of Imperial Chemical Industries,
would shortly visit Australia. One dissentient voice
was that of an eminent British expert, Dr. E. W.
Smith, who thought it would be cheaper to produce
fuel from shale. Then Lord McGowan arrived,
stayed only a few days, and uttered no sound resem-
bling enthusiasm.
Now Canberra has announced that all chance
of oil production from coal is off. The cost per
gallon of fuel would be three times that of imported
petrol at landed cost. And the Government would
need to abandon the petrol tax of 7d.-odd and pay a
bounty of sd. So the scheme is regarded as imprac-
ticable.
The Commonwealth and State Governments are,
therefore, left with no scheme on hand but Newnes,
into which they are being asked to sink a loan of
£500,000. The annual production would be about
one-fifteenth of Australian requirements for motor
fuel 0n1y—20,000,000 gallons. There remain large
deposits of other shale which should be investigated.
The only other obvious source seems to be power
alcohol, now made in small quantities by the C.S.R.
and a company at Sarina (Q.) and sold in Queens-
land at fixed prices from Is. 9d. upwards. Large
quantities of coal are used in its manufacture, and
difficulties of usage with a standard engine are now
so slight that they can be easily got over.
A power-alcohol policy might put another 40,000
people on the land outside the subsidiary employment
it would provide. Having abandoned the only other
source from which there is regularly payable fuel in
sight, the Commonwealth Government should have
a thorough investigation of this remaining one.
Free Public Libraries.
In Sydney enthusiasts some time back got going a Free
Public Libraries movement; its aim, to advance
Australia abreast in this respect of the other English-
speaking countries. They have worked hard to this
end without much publicity and they are beginning
to get results. Minister for Education Drummond
last week announced the appointment of a committee
to advise, and mentioned the drafting of a bill to
extend free public library services throughout the
State. It merits a wider application.
Though it is usually lost sight of by those
who are elected expressly to safeguard it, the principle
of government that Australians prefer is the demo-
cratic. Through the increasing murk of milk, egg,
transport, peanut and birdseed boards it is still pos-
sible to discern that this is a democracy. Whenever
questioned on the matter Australians emphatically
insist on this preference—as when the other day they
were asked to abandon it in favor of adopting
bureaucracy. Every State in the Commonwealth gave
a blunt No to that proposal, and a democracy sup-
porting absolute freedom of trade and commerce
among States Australia remains.
That happened to be a matter on which the people
had first-hand knowledge, and, if they needed it, could
get first-hand information. With efficiently serviced
free public libraries they would have had such infor-
mation available even more readily; they could have
made themselves even more aware of the crush into
which their potential dictators were misleading them.
Luckily, they could not be misled on it. They gave
an intelligent vote for democracy.
Is it so certain that they could be expected to
vote as intelligently on a matter that affected Aus-
tralia from outside?
There is a recent ominous enough instance to
the point. To-day if they were asked to sacrifice a
generation in support of that now completely exposed
falsehood “collective security,” Australians would turn
it down as emphatically as they turned down
bureaucracy. Could that have been said a little time
back, when the only information available to them
was the propaganda published on behalf of “collec-
tive security” by dangerously misinformed daily news-
papers? Yet at the time there was already available
an enormous amount of evidence by authoritative
witnesses to the effect that the so-called “collective
security” was the sham it has since been proved.
Australia then went dangerously close to paying
heavily for its lack of familiarity with the reality of
international affairs. An efficient free public library
service would be the soundest possible insurance
against a very probable future repetition of that sort
of danger. Through it information —as distinct from
cablecrammers’ propaganda would be freely avail-
able as a check.
With the increasing distrust that the daily press
is building against itself through its unscrupulous
sensationalism, people to-day are going more and
more to books for guidance and for correction of
their ideas. At least, those people are who are aware
of the necessity and are able to get the books. In Aus-
tralia the number able to get the books is notoriously
restricted. In N. S. Wales, for example, only one
country town has a free lending library: every city
and town in Great Britain and the United States has
free library services. Even in Sydney there are only
one general public reference library—and that frowsy
and ill-lit —and one public lending library. Sydney
spends twopence a head a year on all its library
services—reference and lending. England regards a
shilling a head as the minimum, and the United States
a dollar a head.
No more scathing criticism of Australia has yet
been penned than a single sentence from the expert
Munn-Pitt report: “As a whole, Australia was better
provided with local libraries in 1880 than it is to-
day.” That goes to the core of the thing that stands
out above all others in Australia at this moment—
the fight of democracy against encroaching bureau-
cracy.
A first principle of democracy is freedom of
speech, freedom of thought; bureaucracy is fatal to
this, but it is fatal to bureaucracy. A general free
public library service—free not only in the sense that
its books are free to all without direct charge, but
in the sense also that itself is free from parochial
restrictions and interference —represents the soundest
precaution that can be taken for the future retention
of our democratic principle in government. No
fortunately circumstanced and informed people would
abandon that for either direct dictatorship on the
Italian-German plan or for the Russian bureaucracy
that the tendencies of our tinpot dictators more closely
resemble. Therefore, because it provides the correc-
tive of widespread disinterested information, the free
public libraries idea merits the support of every man
and woman who thinks Australia is a country worth
doing something for, to have it a better country.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Belated Eruption of "Blithero.”
Only a writer like the late George Black could deal
thoroughly with Mr. Hector Bolitho’s attack on the
man who was King.
Mr. Bolitho was a newspaperman who came to
Sydney not long after the then Prince of Wales’s visit
to these parts. Much was made of his association with
the then Prince of Wales as a reporter in Maoriland.
Sceptics denied that it was as close as had been
asserted, but a champion of Mr. Bolitho who was
running a monthly, since deceased, declared that the
Prince was so taken with Mr. Bolitho’s talents and
social qualities that he rather preferred Mr. Bolitho
to his own brothers, or words to that effect.
Mr. Bolitho had a job on an afternoon paper,
now also defunct. Perhaps a little overcome by the
controversy of which he was the subject, he took to
writing articles in an aggressive strain, one being
addressed to “You Australians.” These lucubrations
provoked George Black into penning a ferocious reply.
It was spread over a page of the weekly with which
old George was then connected, and was headed
“Blithero the Bounder.”
Mr. Bolitho went to England, where, being push-
ing and industrious, he made a position for himself
as a writer of conventional biographies. He did one
of the Prince Consort, and, possibly through the
friendly offices of the man who was still Prince of
Wales, he was quartered for a time at Windsor Castle.
When his patron became king he was engaged to
bring out a volume entitled Edward VIII., His Life
and Reign. Had it appeared while Edward was still
king it would assuredly have been as innocuous as
Albert the Good and Victoria the Widow —
another of Mr. Bolitho’s contributions to contem-
porary letters —but it was published after the lapse
of three months big with events, and in the “closing
chapters,” as dissected by Associated Press, Mr.
Bolitho felt emboldened to Lift the Veil.
So the public now learns with astonishment that
“in the last year of his life a private grief made King
George V. an unhappy and a disappointed man.
He saw his eldest son retreating into a wilderness” —
i.e., “his friendship for Mrs. Simpson.” That friend-
ship was “a perpetual grief to his father, who
called on the Archbishop of Canterbury to help him
in trying to persuade Edward from his error, but
the Prince rejected the advice of both of them.”
When King George died “the Archbishop’s recep-
tion of the new king was cold and dark with presenti-
ment.” That can readily be imagined, but it is not so
easy to believe that, “upon his father’s death, Edward
apparently suffered no self-reproach: he went to Fort
Belvedere and stayed away from his mother in hours
when his place was beside her.”
Other alleged proceedings of the new king dis-
gusted the once-adoring Mr. Bolitho.
He became increasingly stubborn and conceited over
his popularity. His consideration for his servants
changed into pettiness. He became curiously par-
simonious dismissed old servants and even occupied
a servant’s room at Balmoral. Some people murmured
that there was a fault in his reason.
Mr. Bolitho returns to this odd idea when “discussing
the last interviews at Fort Belvedere”: —
The King’s health and reason are said to have
shown the strain of his unhappy state, but his will
within remained firm enough to withstand the touching
appeal of his mother’s visit.
There is a lot more of it: “bitterly resentful of
all interference... .fantastic vanity... .wrapped in his
own stubbornness... .he blundered on, fiercely loyal
to a poor ideal.... a man of promise who came to
disaster through the slow disintegration of his char-
acter.” This is leaping on a former idol with a
vengeance.
It will be a pity if Mr. Bolitho has to go on his
travels again. His sojourn in England seems to have
been pleasant and profitable.
Foundries Shut the Door.
A week ago Sydney foundries nailed up an ulti-
matum: “Owing to the breakdown in negotiations”
work would cease “pending a general trade under-
standing.” A meeting of 2000 moulders and iron-
workers “agreed unanimously to ignore the threat of
the employers.”
When the ultimatum fell due, without the parties
having met each other again in the meantime, the
foundries stuck to their guns, the workers stuck to
theirs, and a dispute with more ominous threat in it
than any in the past 25 years was on.
Prior to this disturbance Australia’s most recent
serious industrial trouble was the seamen’s suicide
strike. The only apparent benefit the seamen got
out of it was a change of secretaries, and they have
since had another change, putting the former secre-
tary back into the job. At the end of it many of the
men, through foolish misleadership, found themselves
out of work and others in their places ; also, those
who did get work had to submit to the licensing
system, which remains in force.
Unions all over Australia, including those closest
associated, refused to go in with the seamen. They
had only recently come through the depression ; like
everybody else, they had felt its pinch, and they were
still feeling its effects. This display of sound sense at
the particular time it happened was a solid contri-
bution towards general Australian recovery. There
has been other evidence of widespread reluctance to
strike.
Altogether Australian unionism has a remark-
ably good record of behavior over a very difficult
period. In many countries during this time there
has been almost continuous serious industrial trouble.
America has been especially afflicted ; there strikes
and lockouts, riots and armed clashes have been on
such a scale that even Europe could speak of that
country as troubled America. Yet there has been no
echo of any of this here ; very largely as a result
Australians have gone pleasantly along getting back
to the prosperity they had before slump hit every-
body.
The main bone in this present trouble is over-
time. It is not a thing likely to cause strong public
feeling against those who object to it. One argument
to be advanced against it is that before the unions
put a ban on it men in the metal trades were working
as much as eight hours’ overtime a week; any
five or six of them were thus doing work that would
have employed another man. The unions claim that
it is since the fixing of the ban that unemployment
has disappeared from the trade. Another argument
is that a day’s work is enough for a man ; if a working
time is fixed for a trade it should be adhered to.
The general reluctance of unions to strike has
already been demonstrated in this disturbance ; the
unions involved asked the engineers not to come in,
and the engineers have agreed—for the present. It
would be a bad blunder to trade too heavily on this
reluctance. That way the trouble might easily get right
out of hand overnight. There is a strong possibility
in it of a severe setback to the present general climb
upwards. It is no occasion for arrogance. The
parties should be got together at once.
Who Shot What?
One criticism of cables dished up in dailies has been
that, in addition to their being often inaccurate and
misleading, they have come out of the same cable
factory. An exaggeration all do not come from
the one source. Clear evidence to the point:
“S. M. Herald.”
While waiting at the
Gare du Nord platform
in Paris for a train to
Brussels, the Count de
Chambrun, formerly
French Ambassador to
Italy, was shot in the
groin by Madame de
Fontange, a beautiful and
gifted journalist.
The Count did not
fall when he was hit.
He turned quietly to the
police, who had rushed
forward, saying, “Arrest
that woman.”
Madame Fontange is
a pen-name. Her real
name is Madame de la
Ferrieres, and she was
formerly the wife of a
deputy prefect in the
provinces.
She is described as
a strikingly gifted and
beautiful woman of 30.
“D. Telegraph.”
One of France’s best-
known diplomats, Count
Charles de Chambrun,
was shot three times in
the stomach on a
crowded platform of the
Gare du Nord.
He collapsed among
a group of excited pas-
sengers, watched by a
white-faced woman stand-
ing by.
Madame de Fon-
tanges, a former music-
hall artist, is now a poli-
tical writer for “La
Liberte.” Madame Fon-
tanges wrote under the
name of Madeleine de
Ferrierre.
Madame de Fontanges
is nearly 40, but is still
very handsome.
You pay your treybit, and you take your pick.
"No Work on Farms."
N. S. Wales Unemployment Council’s report points
out that between the census of 1921 and that of 1933
the area under crop in the State increased by 1,800,000
acres, sheep increased by 16,700,000, and butter pro-
duction by 44,600,0001 b., but number of permanent
rural employees fell by 8200. Only 29,200 farm
workers were employed in 1933.
The Council thinks all this
is significant in relation to the general problem of
unemployment, as an indication that the rural industries
do not present an outlet, at least directly, for the absorp-
tion of surplus labor, and that this is to be sought
rather in the development of secondary industries.
The report attributes the falling off to “mechanisa-
tion of farms” and regards this as “a permanent
feature.” There are other permanent features.
According to the N. S. Wales “Statistical Bul-
letin,” the total value of crops to producers, in spite
of the increase in acreage by about 40 p.c., was only
£17,474,000 in 1933, whereas in 1920-21, which was
a boom year, it was £32,000,000 and in most average
years between 1916 and 1927 it was at least
£20,000,000. In 1935 last year available —it had
fallen to £15,161,000.
Crop yields also show no definite progressive
improvement. When there is a bumper season the
per-acre yield goes up slightly ; when there is a bad
year it goes down. Increasing acreage makes no
substantial advance in total production. Wheat was
10,000,000 bushels, maize was 1,000,000 bushels, sugar
a few thousand bushels, hay 148,000 tons and potatoes
9000 tons less in yield in N.S.W. in 1935 than in
1925. While the general total of cultivated land
increased, maize, sugar, hay and potatoes all showed
less cultivated acreage in 1935 than ten years pre-
viously. The potato, hay, rice, oats, maize and wheat
yields were all lower per acre in 1935 than in 1925.
Most crops show far lower yields than they do in
other countries. England’s production of potatoes
per acre is about 7 tons ; Australia’s is about 2.4 tons.
The average value of agricultural production per acre
in N. S. Wales, despite “organised” marketing, was
£2 ss. 6d. in 1933, against £4 15s. sd. in the years
1922-26. The average production of milk per cow
(“all cows in milk”) in N. S. Wales in 1934 was 4811 b.
a year—less per cow than in 1917, when it was 4911 b.
With this lack of progress in production per acre
and per beast, a steady increase in taxation has gone
hand in hand and a steady growth of the tendency of
politicians to meddle with business.
Ability of land industries to employ depends on
their turnover of saleable produce and their costs.
Obviously, if a cow can be made to produce twice
as much butter, a field twice as heavy a potato yield,
there is likely to be more margin both for money to
give farm employment and to reduce prices and so
be better able to compete in overseas markets.
More Factories for Fishermen's Bend.
The Victorian Government has sold another 33 acres
of Fishermen’s Bend, Melbourne, for £48,000. Under
the conditions of sale £IOO,OOO-worth of buildings
is required within a year, £60,000 of plant and
machinery must be installed in two years, and 2000
men must be employed six months after building is
completed.
This transaction establishes Fishermen’s Bend,
only a few minutes out of the heart of Melbourne
city, as a coming Australian manufacturing centre.
At the beginning of 1936 the Bend was a wind-
swept wilderness of bay and river-front, its chief
industry the export of sand to the rest of expanding
Melbourne. Eight months later General Motors-
Holden’s completed its transfer to acres of the
Bend (it got 50 acres there for £BOO an acre), after
having erected £450,000 worth of modern buildings,
where 7500 men are working. In the same period
the Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation was formed,
four companies putting up a million pounds to manu-
facture aeroplanes at the Bend. Lane’s Motors, Pty.,
Ltd., holds a lease over three of the 33 auctioned
acres, and unless the buyer is associated with Lane’s
Motors another £20,000 or so will be needed to secure
its rights. This concern distributes Chrysler,
Plymouth and Morris cars and trucks. A Chrysler
representative denies that his corporation has any
interest in the land transaction ; all the same, it is
taken for granted in Melbourne that it is a preliminary
to the manufacture of motor-car parts, and perhaps
of chassis.
The one regrettable feature of these developments
is that any portion of the public estate —there is very
little left in the big cities —should have been sold.
•
Temptation in Better Prices.
A great agent in Australian recovery has been the
relation between our money and prices. Externally'
the £ Australian is worth, in terms of gold, less than
half what it was worth in 1929 ; internally it will
buy \2\ p.c. more of the commodities (mostly the
things we produce—wool, wheat, metals, etc.) that go
into the Commonwealth Statistician’s wholesale price-
index than in that pre-depression year. A Common-
wealth index of the prices of items the average house-
hold uses or consumes showed a 20 p.c. drop on
1929 at the end of 1936. An upward trend was then
noticeable, especially in Victoria and Queensland.
The longer internal costs and prices can fairly be
kept at a low level compared with the prices we get
overseas for our goods, the better it will be for all
concerned. The thing that did first damage when the
slump came was a collapse in world prices. Now
that these are rising again, export and manufacturing
industries are encouraged to expand, but only so long
as costs remain comparatively low. While industries
are thus assisted to grow, increased employment
and improved prospects for those in jobs should
naturally follow.
In April, 1934, the Federal Arbitration Court
restored the 10 p.c. emergency deduction from
most wages under Commonwealth awards. At
this stage there was a change in the basis of com-
puting the cost of living for the purposes of awards,
an “All Items” index taking the place of the “All
Houses” index. Since then there have been three
further increases in Federal awards, lifting the average
capital-city basic wage from 655. to 70s. The States
in most cases have also lifted wages in step with the
cost of living. Fortunately for everybody, the cost
of living hasn’t yet started to bolt. Money is worth
no more than it will buy, and costs have a habit of
following increased prices, and vice versa.
There are plenty of people with a half-baked
idea that if metal prices boom and wool and wheat
keep up we can “assist prosperity” by pushing all
other figures along and getting back to the level of
1929. Nothing could be farther removed from com-
pionsense.
After all, no matter how far you stretch a rubber
band, it still has the same amount of rubber in it
And it either comes back with a bang to its old length
or it breaks.
The Australian Accent.
“Sakit Prut” : Australia House, Strand, London.
Enter, visiting Australian.
First on the Right: “No, youah mistaken. Aus-
traliyah is upstairs. No. I don’t know wheah you
can find out about sugah. Maight tray the Coloniahi
Office in Downing-straight. Sorray.”
First on the Left (Commonwealth Bank): “Yes,
it’s an English note, but we must have youah signa-
tuah on the back befoah we can cash it. Yes, of
course, you are one of ouah customahs in Australiah
—wouldn’t cash it othahwise. Wouldn’t know wheah
to collect if it happened to be a wrong one, y’
see.”
Commissionaire: “No, Guv’nor, Hi’m Henglish.
Never seen Orstryler. But from wot I ’eard in France
it ain’t a bit like good old Londing.”
Newspaper Stall: “Sednay Bulletang? Naine-
pence, plee-a-se. Thenk you. Thet’s a foreign pennay,
please. Ho, Horstrylian? We use all Henglish money
heah, please. Thenk you.”
Lift Operator: “No. Ai’ve never been theyah.
Towrist office fouath flooah. Raight across,
please.”
Tourist Office: “No, can’t say Ai’ve been theah.
Hear it’s quite a naice plice once you get used to it.
Yes, takes a lot of gettin’ used to, y’know, after
London. Quaite a lot. Been out there long?”
Lift Operator: “Raight across, please, and round
the cornah.”
Post Office: “Sorray, but we must have your
passport befoah we can give you any lettahs. Just
leaving for Scotland? Sorray. No, we can't
address theah. Must have the passport. Sorray.”


Society
"AND ITS PRINTED WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Nagheer”: Outside the big city
abattoirs in Kobe (Japan) is a large sign
reading: “To the souls of the animals
who, here, yield up their lives in the
service of man.” It is a usual, and
kindly, Japanese practice. Cats whose
skins are used for musical instruments
(which sound not unlike a reincarna-
tion), horses and dogs who have served
their owners well are often enshrined,
and their souls dedicated to Buddha.
Even oysters, singularly unpromising
creatures from the viewpoint of Western
religions, are not forgotten. Old Kokichi
Mikimoto, culture-pearl king in Japan,
recently paid for an expensive and
elaborate dedication service in honor of
the souls of fifty million oysters which
had, since. 1894, gone to build up the
huge family fortune. The first culture
pearl lay in the place of honor on the
altar.
* * * *
“Macann”: As the most optimistic sale
notice ever set up 1 nominate one seen
in a shop window not 1000 yards from
The Bulletin’s front door:
Parachute. Slightly damaged. 455.
* * * *
“Olfactory”: When one day I went
into a casein factory the smell knocked
me backwards, and I wondered how
men could work in such a stench. More
or less politely they told me the only
thing they could detect was a new stink,
which happened to be me at the time. 1
left. The fellows at a fellmongery L
found were used to those silly ques-
tions ; and, of course, were wholly
immune to the odor that made my
stomach rumble. A chap in a hair-
dressery, working among scents which
were supposed to be sweet, assured me
they were in no way pleasant to his nasal
organ, which operated only when some-
thing new hit it. Outback I found a
bloke driving a camel team, and the
aroma put me off my tucker. He
couldn’t smell the oonts. Joining a stock
camp I camped beside a yard of cows
and calves, and the noise of them never
let me sleep a wink. The stockmen
didn't know there was a sound in the
air. Similarly on a sheep station at
lamb-marking: the only time the men
knew there was a noise was when it
stopped. I chased many other scents and
sounds till I tired of the study, and the
conclusion to which I came was that
custom not only makes law but also
blunts senses.
* * * *
“Cam”: The story is told by a man
now high up in the N.S.W. Railway De-
partment. Years ago, when he was a
junior porter at a small country station,
a valuable imported dog was received
off the mail train, labelled for dispatch
by the local branch “mixed.” Pending
arrival of the latter, the porter tethered
the dog to the platform fence. The
animal escaped unnoticed, leaving the
chain and label behind him ; but the
negligent custodian soon proved himself
a man of resource. Hurrying to the
township he bought another dog for a
shilling, furpished it with the missing
one’s equipment and dispatched it to its
destination. And, as nothing more was
ever heard of the matter, he reckons the
consignee must have been quite satisfied
with his “imported” tyke.
* * # *
“Ex-Mister”: Much of the trouble in
the Islands in old days arose from mat-
ters of etiquette and social outlook. For
example, I’ve never really blamed the
Guadalcanar lad who put a hoopiron
knife partly through my throat since I
heard that a white man had shot his
brother some months before. I was the
first white opportunity offering for col-
lecting a life in return, and if he hadn’t
made a try he’d have been letting down
the side and disgracing the old school
tie, so to speak. I don’t even feel as
grateful as I should to the second mate
who settled the affair by quite a neat
shot with a Snider from the covering
boat. He was a nice English chap who
had deserted from a square-rigger at
Maryborough (Q.) for adventure and
better pay. He himself was dreadfully
upset about it; said he’d never forgive
himself for killing a man, and that he’d
never do it again even if we were all
getting scuppered, from the Old Man
down.
* * * *
“Dungeness”: It’s no treat to be a
Broome pearler these days. Jap divers
demand anything up to £350 advance
“Hey, Joe! Would y' get me pipe and baccy? You'll find em somewhere in the engine-room ."
on wages before they will go to sea and
a heavy percentage on shell. They get
any pearls, too. These conditions are
the natural outcome of the crass lack
of foresight which has enabled the
Japanese to get a stranglehold on the
industry. And they have got it, not by
any cunning manoeuvres of the “big-
business” variety, but by sheer, com-
petent attention to the job. They are
the only good divers available to-day,
and if their demands are refused they
merely transfer to the sampan fleets
operated by their own countrymen south
from Timor. I’ve never been able to
understand why Australians haven’t filled
the job themselves. In the early days
of pearling there were any amount of
good white dress-divers. It is a hard
and risky life, but the pay is good—
better than in some much harder and
riskier occupations.
* * * *
“C.F.S.”: One nineteenth - century
authoress might have swooned if she had
overheard a request made some days ago
by a bright young thing at our local
library. The reader sought Jane Austen's
Sex and Sexability.
* * * *
“N.T.”: Darwin cits, are ripsnorting
mad over the exaggerations of the recent
cyclone smash in southern dailies. Par-
ticular exception is taken to reports of
the pearling fleet “with 200 whites on
board.” The Mayor says there wasn’t a
white in the whole boiling. The chief
trouble from the published exaggerations
is the alarm caused southern folk with
friends and relatives in Darwin. Hun-
dreds of wires and radio messages
poured northwards expressing that
wholly needless alarm. Our Glorious
Press has much to answer for. And the
other day it was righteously castigating
a few people for spreading inaccurate
reports about a missing aeroplane.
* * Sf . *
“Verri”: That Papuan gentleman’s re-
quest for a divorce (B. 17/3/’37) brought
back to mind a very earnest Maori-
lander who went as a missionary to a
remote Pacific isle. Approached by the
chief with the two ladies in tow he re-
coiled from the idea of aiding in the
requested divorce, particularly as bore-
dom was the only reason given by the
dusky petitioner. Thoroughly shocked,
he explained at length that only death
could sunder the marriage tie. The
chief arrived next day with only his
second preference, and succinctly ex-
plained the missing wife’s whereabouts
with “Two hits.” It was a bewildered
chief who, having conformed, as he
thought, exactly with mission require-
ments, had to go off to reflect on the
inconsistencies of white men and their
religion.
* * * *
“Fi. fa”: There seems to be a vague
popular idea that commercial air ser-
vices possess some kind of special
exemption from legal liability for acci-
dents to passengers. Actually, they are
in just the same position as any other
common carrier once they represent
themselves as ready to carry members
of the public for hire. If any person is
injured while being so carried, or in pro-
cess thereof, he can claim damages if he
can show negligence on the part of the
carrier or his servant. Ticket conditions
specifying transport at passenger’s risk
only, or limiting liability, cannot contract
the carrier out of this, although specific
cases might be arguable. If, however,
the passenger is killed and his relatives
sue for compensation for the lpss suf-
fered through his death, such conditions
have no bearing at all; the rights in such
a case are statutory.
* * * *
“Barby”: I was at school with the
late Austen Chamberlain, whose dad
would certainly have succeeded Glad-
stone as Prime Minister but for the
Irish Home Rule question, and whose
half-brother is to succeed Baldwin in
the biggest job the British Empire offers,
But my recollections of him are misty ;
in those days (and perhaps there isn’t
much difference, now) all the school’s
hero-worship was reserved for cricketers
and footballers. Austen shone at no
games, though I have an idea that he
attained distinction in the school debat-
ing society. Years ago I read an article
by him in a London magazine acknow-
ledging his indebtedness to his house-
master, who allowed him, as a special
privilege, to read modern history instead
of hammering out Greek and Latin
verses. Doubtless this helped him in the
long term in politics that raised him to
the rank of an Elder Statesman—there
is little nourishment for such a job in
hexameters and iambics.
“Mudurup”: Newton Moore, Premier
of Westralia 30 years ago, later Agent-
General, later still British M.P., who died
recently leaving a handsome fortune, was,
like his more distinguished predecessor,
John Forrest, and one of his successors,
James Mitchell (now Lieutenant-Gover-
nor), a native of Bunbury. It is rather
remarkable that this small seaport should
have provided the State with three of its
six home-grown Premiers—the other
three, Leake, Walter James and Lefroy,
had the metropolis for a birthplace. Of
the remaining nine men who have headed
Perth Governments, England has sup-
plied three, Victoria the same number,
Ireland, Wales and S. Aus. one apiece.
* * * *
“Albarmount”: Had the ill-fated Stin-
son ’plane not caught fire it is most un-
likely that Bernard O’Reilly would ever
have located it. It was a patch of
scorched bush on a distant mountain-
side that caught his eye ; but for that,
finding a wrecked ’plane in the dense
scrub on the rugged Macpherson ranges
would have been an almost hopeless task
for one man. The evidence shows that
those incinerated were killed beforehand
by the crash, so fire, for once, while
causing no deaths, actually led to the
saving of two lives.
* * * *
“Fisher”: “Sailor Once’s” theory that
the main cause of seasickness is the un-
usual motion of objects (B. 17/'3/’37)
doesn’t hold ; blind people are just as
subject to the ailment as anybody else.
Balance is a function of certain struc-
tures in the canal of the ear, aided by
sight and touch. The rocking motion of
trains, ships and ’planes starts the liquid
in the ear-canals rolling to such a pitch
that the sense of balance suffers, induc-
ing sickness and nausea of the same type
as giddiness after a merry-go-round,
which is also the result of disturbance in
the canals. An interesting sidelight is
the well-known inability of sufferers from
locomotor ataxia to stand upright once
the eyes have been closed; the ear-
canals are atrophied with this disease.
Doubters might try standing for long
periods on their heads and finding out
whether eyes or ear-canals trouble them
most.
* * *
“Farleigh”: A cable mentions that the
famous fourteenth - century diamond
known as the Koh-i-noor will be the
largest stone in the Queen’s Coronation
crown. It’s hardly that age. The most
reliable authorities date it back to 1550,
when it is said to have been found in the
mines of Golconda. For the next 300
years it passed through the possession ot
various Oriental potentates, including
Persians, Afghans and Sikhs; Queen
Victoria acquired it when Dhuleep
Singh, the last ruler of the Punjab, threw
in the towel in 1851 and his dominions
became part of the British Empire. 5o
that it represents, as doubtless often
previously, the spoil of war. Its origimj
weight was nearly 800 carats, but unsKi -
ful cutting in the first place and skiing
recutting on some later occasions ha\v
reduced it to little over 100 carats. 1
the middle of last century it was vaguely
valued at about two millions, but Dig
diamonds were much rarer in those days.
WHERE?
“The Premier of Queensland, who is flying to the
Coronation, was delayed at Koepang. The Com-
monwealth Treasurer saw Naples and went to Rome.
The Premier of Victoria visited Venice. The Premier
cf South Australia will land at Marseilles. The
Premier of Tasmania is travelling via America.”
—Cable.
Via the old romantic places—
Rome and Venice and Naples’ bay—•
Loosed from the irksome guiding traces,
Thither they hie their happy way;
Over the jungles of warm Malay,
On where Sirocco has his blow,
More of them through the U.S.A.—
But where is Archie, and where is Joe?
Where in the pack are these two aces,
These winning trumps that we meant to play?
The Lifeguards practise their stately paces,
Banners are right for a brave array,
Heralds all ready to hail the Day,
Even the route that they all will go
Already is mapped . . . Yet we have to say,
“But where is Archie, and where is Joe?”
Where are their twin cherubic faces?
Where in the hectic rush are they?
Where are the spats that hide the laces
That bind the boots on their tootsies, eh?
Can it be that they fell a prey
To a mermaid’s wiles, and that seagulls know,
And wink as we question over the spray,
“But where is Archie, and where is Joe?”
Monarch, we share in your blank dismay!
Of course, you’ll have to postpone the show,
Or the crowds will roar as you pass them, “Hey,
But where is Archie, and where is Joe?”
N.S.W.
O’G.


“Shay Megain”: Warrer papersh want
to go lettin’ out ’bout Russhan women
flyin’ planesh an’ firin’ orf mashine-
gunsh for? Womensh trouble ’nough
already. Don’ wanter give ’em ideash
like thash, doin’ men outer more jobsh
and gerrin’ planesh crashed by kidsh
feedin’ borrelsh gerrin’ in controlsh.
Owdjerexpeck womansh fly planesh w’en
shesh gorrer ushe both ’andsh doin’ up
’er fashe an’ lookin’ arrit in mirrorsh?
Mashine-gunsh ish worsh ’cos womensh
sush cruel cowsh, never know when ter
shtop. Aain’t they dangeroush ’nough
already? Sheen a barmaid knock a pore
bloke out wirrer borrel onesh. ’Orrible!
You givesh thash barmaid a mashine-
gun an’ warrope fer pore blokesh ’undreds
of yardsh either sidesh uv bloke she
wash firin’ at? Worsh shot than polishe
are, barmaidsh ’ud be. It wash me she
shlung the borrel at, an’ pore bloke
copsh it jush cornin’ in the door. Billy
'Ughes oughter shtart shome more uv
them censorsh goin’.
* * * *
“Johnop”: Further on that caul super-
stition. Spelt in some dialects “kell” the
term was first applied to threads of a
spider’s web ; thence to a hairnet worn
by women and eventually to any cap
for women. “Caul” was not used as an
anatomical term until early in the six-
teenth century, when it referred to any
investing membrane. Later its meaning
was restricted to the inner membrane
surrounding the foetus before birth, more
especially to that part of it sometimes
found enclosing the baby’s head at birth.
My medical dictionary bluntly states
that the word is derived from “cowl.”
* * * *
“Notaden”: There is good scientific
reason for belief that the earth is enter-
ing upon another Ice Age, its fifth, ac-
cording to geological evidence. The
weather in the Northern Hemisphere has
certainly got much worse in the last
1000 years or so, since Norse rovers
used to pull and sail their open galleys
across the North Atlantic to their settle-
ments in Greenland, Canada and
America. Still, it is unlikely that even
Scotland will be solidly frpzen over
before the rest of Europe will have de-
veloped enough sense to follow the
present-day holiday-makers into Northern
Africa. It’s not a mere matter of cold
—glaciers will grind all human traces
out of England some day. Australia?
Probably not'. Anyhow, I’m not buying
any extra blankets this year.
“Straighten up, Lofty —Well be O.K. if they don't smell our breath!"
“Brix”: The landlord who did his
own papering (B. 17/3/’37) reminds me
of a landlady who, drawing rentals
from half a dozen dilapidated cottages
in our unfashionable suburb, never
shirked the job. When a cottage needed
attention of this sort the lady would
arrive herself with rolls of paper, ask a
neighbor to kindly make her some paste,
borrow a kid or two (I was often a
borrowed item), and, after getting the
loan. of shears, stepladder and brush,
wade in. Very expertly she did it, too,
while in the intervals from handing,
pasting and cutting we looked longingly
“Your tea, Madam; tea, Johnny!"
at the cricket or football match over the
road. Protests were useless, it being a
point of honor in the district to “help
poor Miss Blank,” who so nobly
struggled to keep herself off the pension
list. When the old lady died and left a
fortune of twenty-thousand-odd there
were not a few of us who thought in-
dignantly of the blue days we’d wasted
over her pastepots.
* * * *
“Oxmead”: Britain has always been
remarkably generous to its reigning
house (B. 17/3/’37). Perhaps more than
generous; even the present Princess
Royal, whose husband is credited with
being one of the wealthiest men in the
land, draws £5OOO a year from a benevo-
lent country. The wonder is that, with
the number of Labor members, sturdy
sons of the people and wild men from
the Clyde, who have won their way into
the House of Commons, more forcible
protests are not heard when the Civil
List comes up for consideration. Yet,
as a matter of fact, these so-called royal
grants were fought more strenuously by
a handful of Radicals 50 years ago than
by their successors to-day. Henry
Labouchere and Charles Dilke were two
men whose voices-were perpetually being
raised against what they regarded as
extravagant provision for the sovereign s
numerous relatives, and Queen Victoria’s
diaries show that she never forgave either
of them. Possibly she held it as an
additional offence that both were wealthy
men, one the nephew of a peer and the
other a baronet.
* * * *
“Stop Press”: Sydney read—and con-
signed to the tomb—quite a number of
newspapers in the early days. Among
them were “Howe’s Weekly Express,”
“Sydney Times,” “Hill’s Life in New
South Wales,” “The Currency Lass,”
“Alfred Bent’s News and New South
Wales Advertiser,” and “Bell’s Life in
New South Wales.” “The Gleaner” was
perhaps the first magazine, and “The
Omnibus and Sydney Spectator” the first
comic. The longest-named newspaper was
“Dawson’s Weekly Register of Politics,
Facts and General Literature” (a com-
prehensive title). But among the most
interesting and hard-punching papers of
that period was the hand-written King
Island “Record.” On an occasion when
the editor had turned down an invitation
from the Governor of Tassie to a ban-
quet he announced, “If I have got to
live in this damned, rascally, cringing,
crawling, boot-licking, mammon-wor-
shipping age, at least I’ll not be of it.”
Later, referring to a police officer of
King Island who had made an affidavit
v/hich the editor considered inaccurate,
he described him without heat as “an
understudy of Judas Iscariot.”
* * * *
“J.M.H.”: What will these idiotic
souvenir-hunters fasten on next? The
last cable-tram to run on the Brunswick
(Vic.) line about a year ago was all but
torn to pieces, and when, on March 13,
the last cars ran on the Port and South
Melbourne lines the police had to be
called out. The trams were mobbed by
hundreds of people and looted of every-
thing movable, including handrails, bells
and destination-signs. Nor did only the
last cars suffer. Fearful of missing sou-
venirs, the crowd attacked four preceding
ones, partly wrecking them. Thus
warned, the Tramways Board had police
on the last cars, but too few. The last
from Port Melbourne left to a pande-
monium of exploding detonators on the
rails, shouts and catcalls. Buttons were
torn from the conductor’s uniform, the
gripman lost his cap. Before the tram
had travelled far the pin connecting
trailer and dummy was souvenired, and
the dummy bolted for 200 yards before
it was stopped. And so great was the
weight of clinging passengers that to-
wards the end of the journey a brake*
box overheated and a fire broke out.
The resultant smoke dissipated the crowd
more effectively than anything else could
have done.
* * * *
“Acher”: “Khayyam” (B. 24/2/’37)
scouts my suggestion that the water-
reticulation pipes of civilisation are the
chief cause of tooth decay. But I was
concerned with the effects, not of three
miles of pipes at Fairbridge, but of 300
miles carrying water so highly impreg-
nated with oxygen (as all watershed
water is) that long ago the W.A. water
department took to loading up the inter-
mediate reservoirs with lime to reduce
corrosion. My goldfields kids had simple
enough food and probably even less
sweets and lollies than the Fairbridgers,
yet their teeth under the influence of
pipeline water simply crumbled away.
Oxygen in water, of course, acts on iron,
forming ferric oxide, which is so avid
for calcium that lime is added to coun-
teract it. Around the Pinjarra district,
where Fairbridge is, I have found most
of the water heavily impregnated with
calcium.
* * * *
“H.A.L.”: The new police sergeant in
our town had made himself intensely
unpopular by prowling about the streets
at night to take the numbers of cars.
It was quite useless to plead that you
didn’t know the tail-light was out or
to ask how you could keep the number-
plates clean when you had to drive over
dirt tracks after a thunderstorm. One
night he grabbed old Mick, the publican,
on his way home from a dance, Mick
swore that he would get even ; his chance
came when the sergeant parked his car
under a street light and left it there
until midnight, when all lights were
switched off at the powerhouse. Mick
promptly ’phoned the station and raised
a sleepy constable. “There’s a Stodge
car, number so-and-so, parked down
here without lights,” reported Bung.
“Come and take the number at once.”
The constable vainly protested that it
was the sergeant’s car. “Take that num-
ber within five minutes or I’ll report
this to the Commissioner,” snapped
Mick. On Monday the sergeant had to
toe the line at the court and submit to
a fine, along with an admonition from
the Bench that he should be the last
person to be guilty of such a flagrant
breach of the by-laws. We’re now won-
dering who will win the third round;
there’s a look in the sergeant’s eye which
bodes no good for old Mick.
SOLACE.
Life deals hard blows —I loved her well,
And she I dreamt was true to me.
She’s not the girl I thought she was
Or ought to be.
To think that she whom I adored,
And set from all her sex apart,
Should prove herself as base as that,
And break my heart.
It hurts. The fault perhaps was mine.
Perfection’s seldom met, I know,
But still they say it does occur —
I thought her so.
But why should I repine at fate
And curse such minor troubles when
I might have even married her,
And found out then?
VICTORIA.
A.G. BURNET.


2<W16
10 for 9*
WI884
All over the world Craven A
are appreciated for the
excellence of their quality.
CRAVENA
ARE MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS.
THIS
G E N E R A T
THE
TIPPED CIGARETTE
POLITICAL POINTS
Recognising that the tremendous Syd-
ney vote against “orderly marketing”
was influenced by general disgust with
the results of milk control, the Stevens
Government is getting rid of the board
it took over from Lang. But, as it would
feel lost without a milk board, it will
appoint another. Governments like
Stevens’s are islands of ineptitude totally
surrounded by boards.
A common sorrow (see the referendum
figures) has brought Lyons and “S. M.
Herald” together again. “The Prime
Minister must go to London with an
adequate suite,” wheezed “Granny” last
week, and Joseph cordially coincides. He
alone is faking three (3) secretaries and
a typist.
An innocuous film showing the Duke
of Windsor ski-ing in Austria while wait-
ing for his Mrs. Simpson to get her
decree made absolute (an intervener in
the divorce case has been ruled out) has
been banned in Australia but not in
Maoriland. “Join the U.A.P. and See
the World” is meant only for politicians.
The common people are not even per-
mitted to see glimpses of the world at
second hand when the U.A.P. censorship
objects.
Parkhill has assured Melbourne “Age”
that he is going to “fight hard for Aus-
tralia at the Imperial Conference.” If
the “Age” were better acquainted with
N.S.W. public men it would know that
“to fight” is the favorite verb of poli-
ticians who have never fought anyone or
anything in their legislative lives.
The slogan of pre-referendum YES
advertising: —
If you don’t understand the Referen-
dum, follow the lead of the trusted men
who do.
To the credit of whoever thought up this
slogan his advice was taken by every
State in the Commonwealth.
Isaac Isaacs “earnestly suggested” to
the A.N.A. Conference at Warragul
(Vic.) that “it is time for us to think
of adjusting our constitutional arrange-
ments to our present necessities and
future prospects.” Agreed; and one.
essential readjustment is a complete
separation of national and provincial
powers, so that, among other things, it
will no longer be necessary to seek con-
stitutional interpretations from a Court
which is apt to change, its mind.
Queensland’s Minister “for” Transport
has decreed that men cutting railway
timber on contract are not to be paid
until they produce paid-up A.W.U.
tickets. The Minister explains that it
is merely a question of the Government
policy of preference to unionists. It
smells much more like a cynical denun-
ciation of political freedom.
Vic. Premier Dunstan, who has spent
a week or so in Italy, reports that he
was everywhere received as a friend and
failed to discover a trace of anti-British
feeling. About the same time Musso-
lini “appealed to Britain and France to
cease suspecting Italy, which desires
peace with all nations.” Perhaps by
way of reply, British and French news-
papers have published the alleged text
of a telegram (yes, telegram ) alleged to
have been sent by Mussolini to an
alleged Italian general in Spain, and
accused the Duce of having been the lover
of a crazy Frenchwoman, under arrest
for shooting a former French Ambassa-
dor to Italy—the whole of the “evidence”
is contained in her diary. Italian news-
papers are not noted for sobriety of
statement or restraint, but the wildest of
them refrained from exploiting the Mrs.
Simpson affair.
A bridge at the Logan (Q.) cost
£27,100, and has already yielded £65,000
in tolls. Motorists are asking for relief,
but the Brisbane Government will see
them hanged before it lets go so profit-
able a stranglehold on the only direct
road route to the south coast holiday
resorts and the N.S.W. North Coast.
The wife of the League of Nations
Union secretary whom the Lyons Gov-
ernment sent to the last melancholy
post-sanctions League palavers denied
to a meeting of Sydney ladies that “the
Brussels Peace Congress which I attended
last September was captured by Com-
munists.” Half Europe is saying that
the League itself has been captured by
DOING HIS BIT.
“‘Fantastic vanity,’ pettiness and unfilial behavior are attributed to the Duke of
Windsor by the Maoriland-born author of Edward the Eighth: His Life and Reign.”
Communist's, and won’t accept denials.
Apropos, the secretarial gentleman was
photographed chatting with Litvinoff,
that prince of legpullers.
If Queensland is to get a worth-while
inquiry into its railways the royal commis-
sion will need to proceed on a wider field
than the terms of reference at present
laid down for it. The Director of the
Bureau of Industry has described the
system of bookkeeping and of allocat-
ing revenue to branch lines and through
routes as “particularly unfortunate,” and
the resulting statistics as “quite uncon-
vincing.”
Granny “Herald’s” startling admis-
sion :
In England to-day most of the young
poets and critics are Communists, or at
least Socialists.
Evidently this is true also of a great many
journalists. And the trouble is that their
anti-Italian, anti-German and pro-Rus-
sian ravings are served up as news.
Perhaps because Gullett has gone, or
possibly because an attempt to make an
arrangement with Poland has crashed,
U.A.P. newspapers are now publishing
pars, like this:
It is understood that the Commonwealth
Government, in negotiating trade treaties
with other countries in future, will take
into account the factor of international
relationships.
Hitherto, it seems, “the dominating
factor” has been the “statistical position”
and “a desire to maintain favorable
trade balances.” With Japan, for ex-
ample. Incidentally Poland, as an origi-
nal member of the League, is now de-
manding the right to emigrate anywhere
and in any numbers for Poles and Polish
Jews.
M.L. show committees are bewailing a
drop in entries. They blame labor short-
age ; farmers can’t spare the time to
prepare stock for exhibition. Labor
spokesmen deny the labor shortage.
Labor in Australia has talked of little
else but “unity” for years. It’s catching.
Two disagreeing lots of Maoriland
unionists have each called “unity” meet-
ings, and now the miners are trying to
make them agree to “unity.” Another
bunch at Auckland declares that Semple
is a “danger to Labor unity.” Australian
Labor similarly occupied has taken a
hand in running Federal affairs for some-
thing like two years in about 20.
The wife of a Sydney University pro-
fessor, back from Europe, reports that
in Russia every possible thing is done
to promote the pleasure of the people.
Still, only the privileged few are ad-
mitted to Soviet trials and the populace
is excluded from gazing at the latest
Stalinist sport—bulleting Trotskyists in
the back of the head.
Lyons should never be at a loss tor
something to think about during his tour,
among other things the likelihood of his
representing Wilmot after the December
election. His Lab. opponent will be
Maurice Weston, a young Launceston
lawyer.
Snappy pre-referendum advice in
“Socialist Comment”:
Go to the polling booths and register
a vote against all sections of the capitalist
class by writing the word Socialism across
the ballot paper.
That can’t leave much more than 450,000
of the informal votes still to be explained.
Since 1907 consumption of spirits per
head in Australia has fallen from .76
gallons to .21 gallons per head ; of beer
from 12.33 gallons to 8.68 gallons. The
number of licensed houses has fallen
over 50 p.c. But where excise per head
of population in 1907 on beer and spirits
averaged 55., it last year averaged £1 2s.
6d. Under that many a toiler who could
do with a beer can’t afford it.
Three post-referendum items:
Two 20-acre blocks at Sunnycliffs (Vic.),
planted with currants and sultanas, have
been sold for £4OOO each. The average
of £2OO an acre is equal to the best price
received in the area.
The butter equalisation plan is to be
continued, which means that prices—l4os.
per cwt. wholesale, Is. 4|d. per lb. re-
tail —will be the same as for the last three
years.
“The Commonwealth Government can
still control marketing,” said Senator
Hardy at Wagga. “It has enough power
to do what it likes.”
So the “ignorant” electors were right
when they refused to swallow the yarn
that unless they voted the inter-State
freetrade section out of the Constitution
(of course, it wasn’t put that way) the
dried-fruits growers and dairy-farmers
would be Rooned.
There are some humorous souls at
Canberra, and they haven’t done, laugh-
ing at the performances of the Referen-
dum Campaign Committee that had its
headquarters at ’Berra before the Day
of Wrath. The committee issued bois-
terous predictions (“the aviation referen-
dum will be carried in all the States, with
the possible exception of Tasmania,” and
“success in Queensland and Victoria for
the marketing referendum is assured”);
but this was its masterpiece:
Among those supporting the referendum
are Laurie Nash, the Test cricketer
and inter-State footballer; Mr. N. G. Von
Nida, Australia’s golf champion; and Mr.
Joe Wallis, the world-famous boxing
referee, of Sydney. Against this array
of public figures is a disorganised group.
“The world-famous boxing referee” is
said to go eighteen stone. Results might
have been less saddening if the com-
mittee could have arranged for him to
fall on “the disorganised group.”
From C. L. A. Abbott:
With reference to my recent appointment as
Administrator of the Northern Territory, a
certain amount of comment has appeared in
your columns. I want to make it very clear
that I am not challenging, in any way, your
perfect right to criticise any person you may
desire. I am sure, however, that you will wish
any statements you make to be entirely accu-
rate. In your last issue, in regard to this
appointment you infer that the terms of the
appointment were changed. This is not so.
The North Australia Act was amended in 1931,
and since then the Administrator of the North-
ern Territory has been appointed at the pleasure
of the Governor-General in Council.
[Any referendum matter requiring a signature
is signed by J. E. Webb and Cecil Mann, 252
George-street North, Sydney.]


THE DARK HORSE.


4
% %
FOR FAULTLESS
IGNITION
Australia’s Leading Financial Journal.
March Issue Now on Sale.
ARMAMENTS AND MARKETS.
BANKING POSITION.
BASE-METAL POSITION.
WORTH-WHILE STOCKS.
PRICE 2/- PER COPY. OR £l/2/6 PER ANNUM POSTED.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., 252 George Street, Sydney, and all States.
Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House*
holders' Comprehensive, Workers'
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
PERSONAL ITEM S
W. P. Payne, chairman of the Northern
Territory Commission, which begins its
sittings next month, is a Queenslander
about the size of the State deficit. He
passed unobtrusively through school in
Brisbane, and then plodded little noticed
up the ladder in a Lands Department
whose laws were as fast-changing as the
Sands of Sinai. When the politicians
woke one day to find the pastoral indus-
try dying of it’s wounds, it also discovered
Payne at its elbow with a new set
of land laws and new adminis-
trative methods. In land matters in
Queensland Payne has ever since been
king. He has wiped out red-tape, prickly-
pear and serious political interference.
A year or so ago he stunned the higher
public service by making a long trip
abroad and paying his own expenses.
If Neville Chamberlain becomes
Britain’s next Prime Minister, he
will be the oldest man who has come
fresh to the job since the brief regime
of Campbell-Bannerman, who tackled it
at 69. Baldwin was 56 when the blue
riband of politics first came his way;
Ramsay Mac was 57, Bonar Law was
64, Lloyd George was 53, Asquith was
56 and Balfour was 50. Neville is 67.
Born in Westralia 39 years ago, A. R.
Allen spent four years with the A.I.F.
in Egypt and France, and was back in
Sydney a few days after his twenty-first
A Maker of Batteries.
birthday. For the past nine years he
has been managing director of Vesta
Battery Co. (Aust.), Ltd. Surfing, golfing
and business trips abroad take up what’s
left of his time.
“Black Rock”: Bishop Stephen Davies,
Anglican Bishop of Carpentaria, whose
cathedral is the Quetta Memorial Church,
Thursday Island, sits easily in the epis-
copal chair, though its shadow stretches
from Cooktown on the east coast of
Cape York to Tennant Creek and Alice
Springs in Central Australia and to
the farthest isles of Torres Strait. Cater-
ing to the spiritual needs of thousands
of Binghis at the same time as the miners
of the Centre means that horse, camel,
lugger, flivver and ’plane are all needed
to provide transport. The bishop before
he went north was Superior of the Bush
Brotherhood at Charleville (Q.).
Exit W. W. Froggatt, one of the
world’s authorities on Australian en-
tomology. Froggatt, Melbourne-born in
1858, owed his interest in insects to ill-
health, which sent him to the country as
a drover and miner. Then Baron von
Mueller, greatest of Australian botanists,
noticed his amateur work and recom-
mended him as a member of an expedi-
tion to New Guinea. Afterwards he
was in charge of the Macleay Museum
for some years, toured the world on an
investigation of insect pests, and held a
commission on the timber borer and
other nuisances for the Commonwealth
Government. In later years he was
attached to the N.S.W. Agricultural
Department. A son, John, carries on
the family tradition as Government en-
tomologist in the Mandated Territory.
“Capstan”: Captain J. V. Millett (B.
17/3/ ’37) is not the last survivor of
crews of the Cutty Sark. Another is
Dave Fairweather, of Kangaroo Point,
Brisbane, who, now 81, had 69 years at
sea before he took to dry land. Born
in Dundee, he started seafaring at 12,
and his first voyage on the Cutty Sark
was a return run from Dundee to Cal-
cutta and New York. In 1883 he came
to Australia on the sailing ship Dun-
troon, and for years was in the Austra-
lian coastal shipping trade.
Maoriland lost its most impressive
moustache when Frederic Lang, 36 of
whose 84 years were spent in Parliament,
passed on. An Englishman, he migrated
in his early twenties, got into the House
of Reps, in 1893 and stayed there till
1922, for the last nine years as Speaker— ;
the kindliest and most conciliatory
Speaker in M.L. history. He joined the
other old gentlemen in the Leg. Council
in 1924, and served seven years. Like
most M.L. politicians he was a farmer,
and had represented his province in
Rugby football in his youth. A lifelong
bachelor, the K.B. that came his way in
1916 was more than usually appropriate.
Lord Balfour of Burleigh, who is
looking in on Australia, is a Bruce who
lives up to the active habits of all the
Bruces since Robert of that ilk won
Bannockburn. The original lord was
an ambassador to the Duke of Tuscany
in the first English Jamie’s day, but the
title suffered temporary extinction for
153 years through the turbulence of the
fifth baron, who was condemned to
death, escaped from gaol by changing
clothes with his sister, fought in the
Sheriffmuir rebellion and was attainted
by Parliament. Queen Victoria restored
the title in 1869 to a descendant of a
sister of the unruly peer. The present
baron served throughout the war; most
of his time now is given to his director-
ships, which extend to the National Bank
of Maoriland and Union Insurance of
Canton.
Judging in The Bulletin Youth
Competitions—No. 1 a prize, of £5O
to advance the winner in the call-
ing of his choice, No. 2 a cadetship
on The Bulletin to the youth who
showed most promise as a journal-
ist —is almost completed. The
names of the winners will be pub-
lished next week.
Mrs. Elizabeth Muir, dead in Sydney
at nearly 90, was a sister of Queensland’s
one and only Archie Meston, journalist,
explorer and authority on abo. lore and
language. Their father was Alexander
Meston, who settled on the Clarence
River (N.S.W.) in 1858 ; an uncle was
the first member for Tenterfield in the
N.S.W. Parliament. Elizabeth Meston
married Robert Muir, of Benona station,
a famous whip, who once drove Sam
Griffith to the top of Tambourine Moun-
tain in a light buggy, the first wheeled
vehicle ever seen there.
Guillaume Daniel Delprat, who died
last week, joined Broken Hill Prop, as
assistant manager in 1898, became g.m.
a year later, and resigned in Feb., 1921.
G. D. DELPRAT.
Delprat saw the co. through its momen-
tous transition “from silver to steel” ; it
was he who conceived the iron-and-steel
project, and he who went abroad and
brought David Baker from Philadelphia
to act as the first manager of the New-
castle works. Under Delprat, with the
enthusiastic support of John Darling, the
steelworks were planned with genius and
successfully established ; under Essington
Lewis, who followed him, they have
grown in efficiency and output. Delprat
was born at Delft, Holland, in 1856.
He studied engineering in Amsterdam,
practised it in construction and mining
concerns in Scotland, England and Spain,
and then put his learning to its most
fruitful use at Broken Hill (where he
evolved a flotation process) and New-
castle. He was awarded a C.B.E. in
1919. A talented family of two sons and
five daughters is scattered throughout
the world, one daughter being the wife
of Polar explorer Douglas Mawson.
From J. Smethurst (Broken Hill):
So G. D. Delprat, founder of the Newcastle
steelworks, has gone. The works are his monu-
ment. Shortly after he retired from the man-
agement of B.H.P. in 1921 I met him in Mel-
bourne and told him I had just been over his
steelworks. “Not my steelworks,” he said.
“I have nothing to do with them now.” “They
are yours all the same,” I told him, “and
always will be.” A man of strong personal
convictions, Delprat was also most companion-
able, without affectation or vanity. He was a
born diplomat, and might easily have been one
in fact; he belonged to one of the leading
families in Holland. He knew when to talk
and when to act. At one conference with
Labor leaders at Broken Hill he joined in a
cordial chat without result with the miners’
delegates at the Trades Hall; then he suggested
a smoke-oh, and passed round his well-filled
cigarcase. Whether there was anything special
about the cigars I don’t know, but after the
smoke all agreed to “Delly’s” proposals when
the conference was resumed. Delprat was
always on the lookout for information. Just
after his appointment as general manager of
B.H.P. mine he met The Bulletin’s late
S. H. Prior in the train from Adelaide to
Broken Hill, and he asked S.H.P. to tell
him all he could about Australia, and in re-
turn he (Delprat) would tell him as much
about Holland as there was time for. Delprat,
who had his portrait painted by the Broken
Hill artist Goodchild, was no mean artist
himself, sculpture being his particular fancy.
“El V.” on a contrast:
Austen Chamberlain was one of the dis-
appointments of British politics. In his photo-
graphs he looked like his father; in the flesh
like his father’s ghost. The same facial cast
as Joseph’s was allied with the same monocle
and the same type of dress. But in Austen
the firmness of jaw was lacking, and there was
a sort of Balfourian air of laxness about the
figure. On the whole, he was more skilled as
a political tactician than his father, because his
whole education had been political, which the
senior Chamberlain’s had not been. At the
end of the Lloyd George regime many people
looked on Austen as in the running for the
Prime Ministership, as brother Neville is to-
day. But he lacked the drive to get the job,
which would have been an easy mark for his
fighting father. No suavity or Knighthoods
of the Garter for the stiffly-buttoned-up Joseph,
who was much less loved than Austen.
John M. L. Macdonald, of Wallaba-
dah, Quirindi (N.S.W.), passed out at 95,
was first president of N.S.W. Polo As-
sociation, and in younger days was one
of the game’s brightest spirits. Scotland-
born, he came to Australia in ’64, and
took up Wallabadah in ’69. Once the
little town that took its name from the
pioneer’s station was a thriving centre,
but the railway to Quirindi in ’76 killed
it. The old Scot, who was vice-chieftain
of Quirindi Highland Society, left three
sons and a daughter.
“Megaptera” meets the anglers’
friend:
There isn’t much more than sft. of D. J.
Pothecary, secretary of the Australian Fisher-
men’s League, but he has enough fighting spirit
for a busload of Jack Johnsons, with a few
Cameras to top it off. After a youth spent
on deepwater ships, he took up fishing in Vic-
toria, fought to get better treatment for the
industry, made his way to Melbourne, organised,
wrote, talked, persuaded and convinced people
until he had established the league and its live
monthly paper the “Fisherman,” and toiled
and fought and convinced until the league had
its own successful co-operative society. In
the intervals of worrying Federal and State
Governments for fishing havens, petrol rebates,
duties on imported fish and so on, he carries
on as mainspring of the lot, and also finds
time to take flying trips to the chief fishing
centres. If ever Australia has a Minister of
Fisheries, he should be first pick.
G. R. Giles, organiser of Vic.’s youth
employment survey and sec. of the Boys’
Employment Movement, has been full-
time vocational guidance officer in the
Education Department since 1929. He
can regard youth’s depression legacies
with the detachment of a scientist —he
holds Melbourne University degrees in
science and education —but he never for-
gets the problems are largely human
ones, an understanding towards which
he was helped by two years’ teaching at
Melbourne Boys’ High School. Member
G.R. GILES.
of a third-generation Australian family,
he is known overseas for authoritative
articles on youth employment and voca-
tional guidance published under his
name in American and Geneva periodi-
cals.


rnnouncing jffudsons C7omp/ete/y J\7ew 1937
TERRAPLANE
117-INCH WHEELBASE ... 96 AND 101 HORSEPOWER
J‘lt’s my choice because it has most of everything I want! 1
* ir ;
m
\
J
The 1937 Super Terraplane Saloon
Big steps ahead
. . . in Size, Power, Endurance, New Features
SIZE? Terraplane steps ahead with a wheelbase increased to 117
inches.
POWER? Increased to 96 and 101 developed horsepower. And
10% less petrol cost from an economy leader!
PERFORMANCE and ECONOMY? PROVED by officially
supervised tests.
ROOMINESS? Increased headroom, leg room, seating room. A
front seat with 55 full inches of comfort for three broad-shouldered
passengers. Level floor.
INTERIOR LUXURY? Richness in upholstery and fittings equal
to that in many cars far more costly.
SAFETY? A body all of steel. Unusually wide driving vision.
And Duo-Automatic Hydraulic Brakes, which safeguard you with
the latest hydraulics, plus a separate safety braking system operating
automatically from the same pedal.
PERFORMANCE • ENDURANCE
ECONOMY
Proved
before public announcement
A new 1937 Terraplane, picked at random
right off the production line before public an-
nouncement, went through the equivalent of
years of punishment in the most gruelling
test ever given a stock car ... on the famous
Utah Salt Flats, where Sir Malcolm Camp-
bell made motoring history in his cele-
brated Bluebird.
1,000 MILES
at an average speed oI
86.54 MILES PER HOUR
beating the best that any closed car
had done before!
In official economy tests, Terraplane made
equally impressive mileage records.
Supervision American Automobile Association Con-
test Board, Utah Salt Flats, U S. A., Oct., 1936
“Dhive
CARS BUILT BY
HUDSON
117-inch Wheelbase ... 96 and 101 Horsepower
N.S.W. DISTRIBUTORS:
DALGETY and COMPANY LIMITED
I Incorporated in England)
136 PHILLIP STREET, SYDNEY
QUEENSLAND DISTRIBUTORS:
McINTOSH MOTORS PTY. LIMITED
Desmond Chambers
Adelaide Street, BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND
VICTORIAN DISTRIBUTORS:
NEAL'S MOTORS PTY. LTD.
140-144 Exhibition Street,
MELBOURNE, C.l.
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN DISTRIBUTORS:
MOTORS LIMITED
30-38 Flinders Street, ADELAIDE
(Also 145 Gawler Place, Adelaide)
WESTERN AUSTRALIAN DISTRIBUTORS:
MORTLOCK BROS. LTD.
914 Hay Street, PERTH
TASMANIAN DISTRIBUTORS:
H. C. HEATHORN & CO. LTD.
53-73 Bathurst Street, Brisbane Street,
HOBART LAUNCESTON
AUTHORISED DEALERS AT ALL
MAIN
COUNTRY
CENTRES


ABORIGINALITIES
BEENLEIGH RUM MINE TINK IT BEST
“M. Place”: All sorts of fishermen
cast their hooks at Narooma (N.S.W.).
A Melbourne man arrived at the pub
with an impressive outfit and was fra-
ternally invited by other week-end anglers
to join a launch party that night ana go
after red bream. It was dark, but the
skipper knew the “spots” by heart; and
the hook was soon down and the prawns
unwrapped. The Melburnian, however,
favored a lump of steak as bait. Stand-
ing on the top of the cabin he worked
up great speed with a yard or so of his
Cuttyhunk, then heaved it mightily in the
direction of the faintly-outlined rocky
point behind which the craft sheltered.
All this was watched with interest by the
rest of the party ; they had no time to
question the thrower before he got a
beautiful bite. He played it well enough,
considering, but his catch was heavy and
energetic. The skipper got a knife ready
in case the shark (it was certainly a shark
by this) should endanger the boat.
Gradually the line was pulled in and a
torch flashed out. The now-weakening
catch was hauled warily alongside, when
a whimpering sound caused the man
with the boathook to stay his hand. On
the line was a well-hooked, half-drowned
kangaroo-dog!
* * * *
“Bufo”: Perhaps the greatest of the
mysteries attaching to the migration of
birds is that in several species the young
ones travel the, journey apart from their
parents, and when they are only a few
Weeks old. For example, a sooty shear-
water breeds in M.L. and spends its
summers in the North Pacific and North
Atlantic. The parent birds leave a
month before the young ones, which, at
the time of their abandonment by their
heartless progenitors, are too fat to fly.
Yet they soon get into training, for the
long trek, and learn to fend for them-
selves. Distances covered by some
species are amazing. Arctic terns breed
in the Arctic Circle, and visit the
Antarctic for the summer—annual return
flight, fully 11,000 miles! These birds
must be unique among living things for
the amount of their lives spent in day-
light.
* * * *
“Splodger”: At Cooktown (Q.) 40
years ago the abos. used to provide a
daily spectacle for us school kids. They
used to come over in dozens every morn-
ing from North Shore, paddling their
outrigger canoes, and leave them staked
in the mud near the old baths. About
four every afternoon they’d be hunted
out' of town for the day, after doing
what jobs and cadging tfley could. Then
came the treat; each canoe loaded down
to the gunwale—gins, bucks, pics.,
flappers and youths. Yabber! No
Tower of Babel ever had anything on
that mob. There never was a tribe of
blacks without a mob of mangy dogs,
and these were no exception. There
was always a row about taking the dogs
in the canoes, ending every time with
the hounds having to swim. Off they'd
start —half a dozen canoes, not one,
showing more than about three inches
of freeboard, and a string of dogs
spreading behind like the tail of a comet.
Now and again—all too rarely, we
thought—a dog would be taken by a
shark. Then there’d be something doing
—gins yelling, bucks shouting, paddles
hitting the, water, dogs flat out, and,
usually, the shark the most frightened
of the whole mix-up.
* * * *
“Bushy”: References? “Joe Smith has
worked fer me three weeks” was one
signed by the local nigger-driver. Joe
had no trouble in getting another possie.
H*
“Takapu”: A sea-sport unlikely to
attract many Australian addicts is
octopus-hunting in the original Ocean
Island fashion. Having spotted the game
—anything up to six or eight feet across
the arms —in a reef pool, the sportsman
dives, heaves the quarry off the bottom
with a jerk, and tackles it with his teeth !
A lively underwater scrap follows, the
octopus trying to retaliate with its
parrotlike beak, the hunter chewing
vigorously in search of a main nerve-
centre. Once he gets his fangs into that,
the octopus goes limply out to it. It
“Cut it out , boy! I'm married !”
must have taken a lot of real starvation
to invent that method of putting sea-food
on the menu.
* * * *
“Colon”: My permanent partner has
evolved something new in racing systems.
All that is required is a setting of eggs
and an accommodating hen. A few days
before the eggs are due to hatch, a race
is chosen with a like number of horses
or less, and the prads’ names are written
on the shells ; the first shell broken is
the dinkum oil. Up to date it has thrown
three winners out of four, and the wife
has cut googs off the menu ; now she is
all set for a killing at Randwick. The
hatching that threw the loser proves the
system is infallible (vide Her), as the
winning chicken died before the race —
“and with an omen like that' it does
make you suspicious, doesn’t it?”
* * * *
“The 0.D.”: The Standards Associa-
tion has sent forth a draft circular out-
lining its intentions to fix standard names
for Australian trees. It’s about time
something of the kind was done. A
swamp-gum on the Murray is a white-
gum on the Lachlan ; a cabbage-tree in
Riverina would trick a Queenslander;
the native oak may be a bull- or she-
oak; box-trees vary their monikers
every 100 miles; and few trees bear the
same names in different districts. In a
lesser degree this is true of birds and
weeds, except that Bathurst burr and
crows are s wherever they are.
* * * *
“Ellenvale”: “Hanko’s” swagman who
carried a heavy swinglebar in his swag
(B. 17/2/’37) recalls “King” Kelly, a
Gippsland (Vic.) sundowner who had a
fancy for collecting worn-out axeheads.
The “King” never tried to sell any of
his curios, and he could always produce
15 or 20 from his swag and tucker-bag.
Although he was close on 70, he thought
nothing of humping his trophies on a 20-
mile stage, and he was always ready to
walk a few miles out of his way on the
chance of picking up another specimen.
* * * *
“Hanko”: Armed with a camera I was
stalking a serenading lyrebird when I
saw a fox slinking through the bracken
before me. I was about to give the bird
warning of Reynard’s evil designs when
its sudden silence made me pause. Came
an ominous click. The stalking fox
squatted uncertainly. Bang! The sharp
report sent me nose-diving into the ferns
and the fox streaking up the hillside.
Being a returned soldier I felt no abash-
ment as I scrambled to my feet, only a
vast wonderment. Which of us stalkers
did Menura use his unparalleled imi-
tatory powers to “fire” at?
* * * *
“Old-timer”: The rude hand of the
demolisher has been laid on the old
Commercial Hotel at Angledool
(N.S.W.), an edifice that alleviated the
thirsts of the far-west for more than 60
years. All that remains of the old boozer
is the pepper-tree that gleamed through
the sun-drenched air as the wayfarer
plodded across the plains. It came to be
known as the “wishing tree,” though why,
none knows. One explanation had it
that an identity of former years tried
to hang himself from it while in the
blues, and, upon some interfering per-
sons attempting to save him, wished all
and sundry to Hades.
* * * *
“Leirum”: In tidal lagoons and en-
closed reef pools Torres Strait Binghi
reaps rich harvest by spreading on the
surface an infusion from a weed he calls
“saj.” This immediately stupefies the
fish, which rise belly upwards, to be
gathered by the womenfolk. The in-
fusion is obtained by bruising the fleshy
roots of the herb on rocky surfaces and
then brewing the milky secretion. Binghi,
who has a wide knowledge of botanical
properties, actually employs some drqgs
as remedies for the very ailments for
which they are prescribed by the. British
Pharmacopoeia. His “love charms” under
the rites of pourri-pourri, though mostly
arrant humbug, were in some cases genu-
ine enough, and his knowledge of herbs
with Stopesian properties is generally
well authenticated.
“Tongio West”: As a destroyer of
bird life I’ll hand the belt to the red
meat-ant. This pest does not confine its
activities to ground-nesting birds, but
scouts and hunts in trees also. I have
seen young unfledged rosellas, ground
larks, plover and pigeons being eaten
alive by the red hosts, which are generally
in such numbers that the parents haven’t
an earthly chance of driving them away.
Some birds, including the galah, to pre-
vent ant invasion, strip away the bark
from the hollow in which they build,
and then beat the stripped portion smooth
with their wings.
# * * *
“Bolton Mechanic”: If the Tarongtt
Trustees instal food-slot machines (B.
3/ 3 / ’37) they should have some fun. I
recall one of the kind attached to the
cage of an elephant at Belle Vue Gardens
in Manchester. If you gave this chap a
penny he put it in a machine which dis-
gorged a large bun. Sometimes it didn’t,
and the way the intelligent beast banged
the machine with his trunk to the ac-
companiment of elephant language filled
all with admiration. He was at his best
if anyone handed him a coin smaller or
larger than a penny. He would spot it
as soon as his trunk touched it and hurl
it back quicker than a Sydney trammie
will a dud two-bob, meanwhile letting
out a storm of screams and snorts that
always brought his keepers up at the
double, afraid he’d gone musth.
“Duggai”: Jarrah might have a good
texture range (B. 10/3/’37), but my
money goes on the Queensland black
walnut that America’s rushing us for.
It has colorations of blacks, browns and
chocolates, with sometimes bands of
yellow. As peeled veneer, it presents a
darkly flowered shadow tapestry effect.
It veneers and plies without difficulty,
and takes a glossy polish, and it offers an
insulating resistance to electric current
much greater than most woods ; hence
it is particularly adapted to switchboard
arid other electrical use. It is used ex-
tensively for piano veneers and makes
high-class furniture. Every part of the
tree is usable.
“Boree”: There should be no mention
of beautiful Australian timbers without
a word for the wine-colored myall with
its delicious scent. The only ornamental
use I’ve seen made of it was for fancy
stockwhip handles, which, when well
carved, were as good to look on as they
were pleasant to the nose. It would
work up into wonderful furniture, though
the trees are not large enough to furnisn
broad planks. Another despised wood
that is a joy to the eye is mallee. A
Sydney firm is now selling boxes, vases
and similar oddments in which its lovely
golden-browns and capacity for taking
high polish are seen at their best.
MICKY MINER.
In forest country oft is heard
That bold, assertive bushland bird
The Noisy Miner, whose shrill cry
Gives warning to all creatures near
When strangers in his haunts appear,
The while he peeks with canting ear,
An impish twinkle in his eye.
Since preying prowlers he annoys,
1 welcome Micky Miner’s noise;
I like him for his friendly cheek.
I like him for the warning cries
That show some danger he descries
When with his merry mate he flies
Among the box-trees by the creek.
A restless, chatting stickybeak,
He’s here and there, with skip and squeak,
As if he had a world to mind;
And while the ground birds start and quake,
His fuss and noise the echoes wake
When in the grass he sees a snake,
The foe of furred and feathered kind.
No flutelike note nor gift of song
Endears him as he drifts along,
An ever-prying sentinel;
He’s “Squeaker,” “Snake Bird,” “Screeching
Mick,”
Who loudly clamors “Quick, be quick!”
But when he’s quiet in scrubland thick
The bush folk know that all is well.
In many names has spread his fame,
This honey-eater, spry and game,
Who keeps an eye on bush and yard:
The Bocri Boori black men know,
The Soldier Bird where stockmen go,
And to the wild life, high and low,
Tie wary Watchbird there on guard.
NS.W.
E.S. SORENSON.


“Nardoo”: Certainly the Italian, by
choice a food faddist, can, in a pinch,
knock a feed up from almost anything
in the bush. He will even have ago at
the celebrated “ha ha pigioni” (kooka-
burra), but he has to admit to the wom-
bat being “much too harda.” A store-
keeper on a big construction job told
me that in foodstuffs the. Italian was, by
far, the best spender. Next came Aus-
tralians, British, Scandinavian, in that
order. Well down at the bottom of the
list came the Slav.
* * * *
“Dry Patch”: Speaking of the scatter-
ing of fruit and vegetable seeds. When
traversing the dry heart of Australia the
late Dave Lindsay followed this excel-
lent practice, putting in melons, cucum-
bers, etc., at soakages such as Queen Vic-
toria Springs, well east of Kurnalpi
(W.A.). Wonder if any of his plantings
have survived? The übiquitous pig- or
jam-melon sometimes proves a friend in
need on many a dry track of Nor’-
Westralia.
* * * *
“Walkabout”: Who told “R.W.D.”
(B. 24/2/’37) that wallabies make a
thumping sound with their tails? When
moving, the tail of a marsupial does not
touch the ground at all; its purpose is
“What Wort the last race, brother?
for balance and rudder effect. One old-
man kangaroo on a station in W.Q. had
met with an accident to his tail early in
life, and it was pathetic to see the old
fellow hopping out of the way when a
horseman appeared. His broken rudder
prevented him from hopping in a straight
line, and though he was for years afflicted
he never overcame the trouble.
“Nordbo”: Drinking in a Cairns
(N.Q.) pub a silent, easy-looking stranger
accidentally bumped Bill’s arm, spilling
a drop or two of his beer. Bill promptly
jabbed the bloke in the eye. They went
out on the grass. But the stranger turned
out to be a fist artist, and Bill got a
terrible belting, so much so that presently
he sang out: “All right, I’ve had
enough!” His opponent never stopped
slogging. Bill repeated his words of sur-
“By the Way, Jim, did y' know ol' Peter's hams Won first prize again this year ?”
render several times without effect. “It’s
no good, Bill,” said an onlooker (hither-
to unwilling to curtail the fun), “he’s
deaf.” Bill was “getting it” still. “Well,”
he gasped between blows, “can’t some
of you blankards . . . write it down . . .
for him?”
* * * *
“Jayem”: Our hen hatched nine
chickens, and the magpies soon de-
veloped a system ; one engaged the hen
in a running fight, while the other col-
lected the meal. Four chicks disap-
peared in three days. Then the hen en-
rolled a broody, her job to lead the
chicks to safety while the mother skir-
mished with the invaders. Even the
shrewd maggies could think up no
counter to that bit of strategy by the
allegedly nitwitted chooks.
* * * *
“Comfit”: A bush jam which I’m satis-
fied could leave that of “Dominic” (B.
10/3/’37) standing down the course is
the wild lime marmalade W.Q. house-
wives used to make long ago. The de-
licious flavor had the characteristic lime
tang; color was a beautiful golden
brown. If it could have been put on the
market in sufficient quantity—wild limes
are scarce—it would have been a popu-
Ur hit.
* * * *
“Oont”: Touching on how long a
camel can go without water. Provided
it’s in gidya country and not worked it
can go indefinitely. I’ve seen them west
of the Georgina, in waterless country,
and none of the holes in the river showed
the track of a camel’s foot on their
banks; yet after going through a dry
summer the beasts were as full and
happy as a stall-fed horse. If a camel
isn’t educated to go without water and
is allowed to get a drink every day, it
won’t go further than an ordinary horse
and not as far as a good one.
“Cudgerie”: My experience in Clon-
curry district (N.Q.) is that eight days
is about as long as camels can go with-
out water. They can manage up to
about 14 when there is green fodder or
poley bush around. Camels camped
along watercourses require their daily
drink the same as horses and cattle do.
Abdul weans the beasts from the water
gradually, and it generally takes several
weeks before an oont is fit to do an
eight-day stretch without a drink.
* * # *
“Eureka”: Sundowners adopt some
strange hobbies, and strangest I’ve come
across was that of one battler who
searched rubbish-tips for old sweaters
and other knitted goods, which he un-
ravelled and reknitted into socks, sweat-
ers, scarves or anything else that he could
sell to bushmen along the roads. After
unravelling the old garment he steamed
the wool in a billycan, and it was as
good as new wool. He learnt to knit
when a broken leg sentenced him to a
stretch in hospital.
* * * *
“Green Checquer”: At Lowanna, on
the N.S.W. North Coast, native cats the
other day killed a whole cage of homer
pigeons which, kept by sawmillers there,
were famous for maintaining com-
munication with the owners’ other
mill at Mt. Hyland, 60 miles away on the
other side of Dorrigo. The birds had
rendered good service for years in spite
of periodical trouble with hawks. This
can be said for the native cats —they
knew no better. Though there is a law
forbidding it, more homers are killed in a
year by the human yahoo armed with a
cheap shotgun than by cats, falcons or
any other natural enemy.
* * * *
“Bogan Boy”: “Where everything is
well with me, there is my home!” It
happened in N.Q. Lizzie’s bonnet had
been lifted and a charge of oil put in.
This operation disturbed a “copper-tail”
snake which had taken up residence in
Lizzie’s innards. It promptly disappeared,
and search proved futile. Six miles
along the road the wriggler made his
appearance, entering the cabin via the
steering column. The car was still
travelling when driver and passenger hit
the metal.
“J.R.D.”: Now that I’ve retired from
the game I’ll raise no objections to
“Dingo’s” proposal to knock out a panel
of cemetery fences to allow stock to
keep the grass down (B. 10/3/’37), but
there was a time when I’d have resented
the idea. In my droving days in C.Q.
the sight of that plot of tangled grass,
dry though it might be, awoke in me no
hostile feelings. When a drover is
battling for grass for his mob, especially
for his horses, he dreads the day h«
must spend in passing through a radius
denuded by local town goats, and the
grass inside the goat-proof cemetery
fence is welcome. The tidier of the de-
parted souls should suffer no sense of
desecration at having their tombs,
neglected by their friends, cleaned up,
and those old bush warriors under the
sod would appreciate the gratitude of the
horses nosing about with no hobbles to
rasp pasterns and the rare prospect of
a full belly by morning.
* * * *
“T.P.T.”: Mt. Mulligan (Q.) isn’t the
only place where cockroaches are white
(B. 24/2/’37). The Sons of Gwalia
(W.A.) has thousands of them under-
ground. The mine once run by Hoover
is the only one in W.A. to use horses
underground, and the cockroaches
flourish round the stalls.
* * * *
“Hanko”: Believe it or not, I* was
nearly paid for overtime by a cocky
once. Afraid that the remainder of the
crop would “shake” in the wind and
blistering heat, the boss and I kept going
with the binders and knocked it down by
moonlight. At settling up he threw me
a cheque: “You’ll find that right,” he
said. “And here, this is for th’ turn
yer done me gettin’ me oats orf,” and
he pushed me an outsize pumpkin.
That’s how I nearly got paid overtime—
I couldn’t freight the ironbarked gratuity.
* * * *
“Billy See”: Funniest hotel disturb-
ance I ever witnessed was between a fat
retired wrestler and a tough little cock-
sparrow of a navvy who was challenging
all and sundry in the bar when the f.r.w.
blew in. Picking the cherubic counten-
ance as an easy mark the c.s.n. passed
some nasty remark, then pranced up to
inquire how it was to be taken. Putting
down his pot the fat one suddenly sprang
into lightning action, and before the
c.s.n. realised what had happened he
was in one of those curious wrestling
holds. Folded right up, he was carried
out helpless and dumped on the road ;
but, unhurt and undaunted, he returned
for more. Tied up again, he this time
was heaved out. But the sand was soft
and his spirit unbroken; three more
times the heaving out was repeated.
Then, stung into mild impatience by the
punches he was taking, the f.r.w. started
on the Irslinger aeroplane throw. Held
aloft ready for the dump on to the
broad of his back the c.s.n. promised to
behkve. No; wrestling isn’t all fake,
and, though an even-weight boxer can
generally stand a wrestler off, the latter
can tie the average man into extraordi-
nary and disabling knots.
THE MUG’S INGRATITUDE.
You couldn’t miss with him if you tried; the
going was always good;
A man could be easy satisfied that he never
understood.
He’d never give you a moment’s fear that he’d
t tumbled to your game;
An’ I knew him, too, for many a year, an’
he always was the same.
I often grinned to myself a bit at how he’d
fall for a tale;
The dopey way he would come at it, no matter
how old and stale.
He didn’t mix with the boys a lot, an’ some
of them turned him down,
Though he was always good for a pot when
you’d meet him in the town.
And he never got a glimmer from me that he
wasn’t up to par;
I realise that we all can’t be as shrewd as
some of us are.
I’d waltz right up and I’d say “Good day,”
and make a bit of a fuss;
I used to treat him in every way exactly like
one of us.
I had a bit of a laugh the day—though never
a word I said —
When I heard that luck had come his way an’
he looked to be going ahead;
An’ I got to work on a bit of a plan that I
reckoned ’d be all right,
Thinking he wouldn’t forget a man who had
always treated him white.
But what return for it did I lob? I tell you
that I saw black
When I stuck him up for a cushy job, and the
blighter knocked me back!
A man’s a mug to treat mugs like men; I tell
you it doesn’t do,
For you’ll find that a time’ll happen when they
think they’re as shrewd as you.
W.A.
OSCAR WALTERS.


You must
obtain greater
mileage with..
M
C65/12/SP
SUPER
Plus
ETHYL
COLOURED RED
IT ALSO
CONTAINS BENZOL
BENZOL (tinted Blue) IS
SOLD AT THE STANDARD GRADE PRICE
Incorporated by
/83S
Royal Charter, 1835.
TRAVELLERS
TO ITALY
Travellers’ cheques in Italian Tourist Lire are
available at The Bank of Australasia at special
concession rates to travellers visiting Italy or Italian
possessions.
Italian Travellers’ Cheques afford a substantial
saving in expenditure . . . they are safe and con-
venient, and readily negotiable.
Letters of Credit and Circular Notes are also issued,
available throughout the world.
The Bank of
Australasia
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Wool worths, Ltd.
, Dividends
Pref. To Re—
Jan., Profit. 10 p.c. Ord. serves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £ £
41,314
1929.. 22.817 1271 25 p.c. = 15,791 5,755 35,559
Premiums on new shares, £33,288.. 2,271
Reserves.
1930.. 38,693 3050 30 p.c. = 24,249 11,394 9,123
Share premiums, etc., £6598 .. 15,721
1931.. 41,736 4952 25 p.c. = 20,688 16,096 31,817
Unexplained reductions, £1460.. .. 30.357
Deficit.
Assets written up and £83,894 of
bonus scrip issued; added goodwill,
£37,495 7,138
Reserves.
1932.. 62,407 7500 17J p.c. =29,363 25,544 18,406
1933.. 68,845 7500 224 „ „ 37,752 23,593 41,999
Trans, to Staff Provident, £2OOO .. 39,999
Ist 2nd
Pref. Pref. Ord.
10 p.c. 7 p.c. 25 p.c.
£ £ £
1934.. 85,552 7500 4,579 41,947 31,526 71,525
Assets written up and £253,183 1
of bonus scrip distributed.- Un- i q
explained addition reserves, £16,088'; j ’
added goodwill, £77,732. J
124 p.c.
1935. .100,418 7500 7,000 52,746’ 33,172 43,053
To staff fund, £lOOO .. .. .. 42,053
Share premiums. £30,000 .. .. 72,053
17J pm.
1936. 7500 11,862 73,844 l - n 199 ,07
Staff fund and charities, £4OOO j 0 ’ '
Assets written up and unexplained
additions to reserves, £455,583 .. 577,980
Reserves capitalised, £421,969 .. 156,011
124 p.c.
1937. .172,341 7500 14,000 105,492 1 , 9 o, Q 1QS n fio
Staff fund and charities, £3OOO j ’
The extraordinarily quick and highly-
profitable development of this variety
chain store had sent the price of
the fully-paid £1 ords. to £8 15s. a fort-
night ago. Then announcement of a new
issue of 84,394 ords., one for 10, at a
premium of 30s. each, to those on the
register at March 31 disappointed the
market, and the figure had fallen to
£7 10s. last week-end. After exercising
the rights, the net cost of the scrip at
£7 10s. is approx. £7, at which figure, the
return is 1.8 p.c. on a \2\ p.c. div. basis.
The market thus heavily discounts the
future, and values the undertaking at
£6,498,324. After deducting outside
liabilities (£306,662) and the pref. capi-
tal (£275,000), the net tangible book
value at the end of January was
£1,428,383, which includes shares in sub-
sidiaries, etc., at the figure at which they
appear (£847,326). The market thus pays
over £5,000,000 for goodwill, valued at
£165,227 in the books. The 10 p.c. first
prefs. at 395. 3d. and the 7 p.c. seconds
at 275. 3d. each return 5.1 p.c.
Turnover and the number of stores in
the chain are not disclosed. But the co.
was formed in Sydney toward the end of
1924, and, including subsidiaries, the
business has now spread throughout the
Commonwealth and Maoriland. Paid
capital expanded from £93,764 eight
years ago to £1,118,938 in 75,000 first
10 p.c. and 200,000 second 7 p.c. cum.
prefs. and 843,938 ords. at the close of
last accounts. Of the ords. 759,046 are
bonus shares; the last lot (421,969) was
handed out, one for one, in June, 1936,
assets being “revalued” for the purpose.
At the end of January nearly of
every pound of ord. capital thus repre-
sented gift scrip. Also, the gifts made
last year’s 12y p.c. div. worth over 124
p.c. on the £84,942 of cash-paid ordinary
capital.
After handing the four directors
£12,500 (£2500 of it was in respect of
the previous year), allowing £43,758 for
depreciation, etc., and setting aside
£65,000 (down £15,000) for the tax-
gatherer, the net result was £24,791
better at £172,341. That was enough to
pay the pref. divs. and show 17.7 p.c. on
ord. capital as it now stands, or 16.2 p.c.
on ord. capital as it will stand when all the
money on the new issue (it will bring
with it £126,591 of share premiums) is in.
So the 12y p.c. div. appears to be in
no danger. For reasons already ex-
plained, the p.c. called for £31,648
more than p.c. did in the previous
term.
One of the pillars on which successful
chain-store trading rests is quick cash
sales (capital is turned over five or six
times a year), which means, among
other things, good buying if mark-downs
are to be kept at a minimum. Most lines
are cleared, the bill paid and profit
pocketed all within time allowed under
ordinary trade credit, thus keeping capi-
tal investment in the chief earning asset
(stock) relatively low, and reducing the
risk of loss from price fluctuations.
Also small personal service.—salesman-
ship is reduced to a minimum, there are
no deliveries and few book debts—keeps
overhead down. The amount of profit
earned depends largely upon the volume
of turnover. Apart from possibilities of
legislative interference, there is, of
course, a limit to the expansion of the
business. The co. does not yet appear
to have arrived at this point; still, ex-
pansion seems likely to be less rapid in
the future than in the past, owing to
competition and other things.
This comparison of balance-sheet
figures reflects continued growth of the
business:
1929. 1934. 1936. 1937.
Paid capital £93,764 £342,788 £096,969 £1,118,938
Liabilities.. 127,525 272,188 235,208 300,602
Freeholds, etc. 51,667 340,989 307,546 417,585
Leaseholds. 6,095 86,421 80,346 87,016
Plant .. 37,196 130,903 206,681 239,571
Shares other
cos., etc. 9,450 116,651 304,684 847,326
Stocks .. 100,551 190,968 281,102 349,439
Debtors .. 4,159 26,710 75,715* 64,359*
Cash . . 929 1,186 131,882 4,749
* Includes advances to associated cos.— £60,508,
1936; £58,291, 1937.
Excluding shares in other cos., the more
or less liquid surplus (£53,594) was
£199,897 lighter than at the previous
balance, owing mainly to additions of
£110,039 to freeholds, £6670 to leasehold
and £32,890 to plant. Liabilities consist
of mortgages £173,000 (up £34,500) and
sundry creditors £133,662 (up £36,954).
Of the growth of £542,642 in the book
value, of shares in other cos., £41,250 was
on account of a call of 15s. on each of
55,000 ords. held in the Vic. subsidiary;
the balance, or most of it, appears to be
in respect of the revaluation and gift
issue already referred to and bonus scrip
received from the Maoriland and West-
ralian offshoots. The Maoriland sub-
sidiary paid \l\ p.c. and made a two-
for-one bonus issue ; the Westralian pup
paid 25 p.c. and handed out gift scrip
in the proportion of two for one ; the
Vic. co., which netted 46.6 p.c. on its
ord. capital, paid no div., money being
wanted in the business.
Howard Smith, Ltd.
Dividends. To Re— Re-
Dec., Profit. Ordinary. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1926.. 211,608 10 p.c. = 200,000 11,608 289,615
Pref., Ord.,
6 p.c. 10 p.c.
£
1927.. 200,979 762 200,000 217 289,832
74 p.c.
1928.. 161,348 11,780 150,000 259.400
24 p.c.
1929.. 75,874 15,000 50,000 10,874 300.274
1930.. 18,801 15,000 Nil 3,801 304,075
1931. . 15,172 15,000 Nil 172 304,247
1932.. 17,415 15,000 Nil 2,415 306,662
1J p.c.
1933.. 47,168 15,000 30,000 2,168 308,830
24 p.c.
1934.. 73,979 15,000 50,000 8,979 317,809
1935.. 84,570 15,000 50,000 19,570 337,379
3f p.c.
1936.. 97,649 15,000 75,000 7,649 345,028
It is mainly a holding co. The posi-
tion, therefore, cannot be judged entirely
from the figures in the table. At the
end of 1936 all but £372,523 of the
£3,629,678 of assets was represented by
shares in other cos. In addition to divi-
dends from some of these, H.S. also
rakes in something from its own activi-
ties as agent and manager, though how
much is thus added to income each year
is not visible to outsiders. What is plain
is that there is £2,250,000 of capital to
feed in 250,000 6 p.c. cum. prefs. and
2,000,000 ords. The latter include
£1,550,000 of bonus scrip, most of which
was scattered shortly after the co. passed
its shipping and coal interests to sub-
sidiaries at the end of 1914. The pref.
money was gathered in 1927 to help
pay for scrip in iron and steel, cement
and blue-metal ventures. The ords. aver-
aged 11.5 p.c. for the 13 years to close
of accounts in 1927 ; for the nine years
since—three of them were dry ones—the
average has been 2.2 p.c. The slip was
due mainly to the sickness in the coal
trade, slump and failure of some of the
new investments to contribute to the
pool.
Coal remains in the doldrums (it is
difficult to say when it is likely to
emerge), and the co.’s cement and blue-
metal investments hang back in the
collar. Still, the outlook in other direc-
tions has brightened, owing to improve-
ment in conditions generally and to the
purchase of Australian Iron and Steel’s
business by B.H. Prop, at the end of
1935. A year ago the co.’s principal
shareholdings were as follows:
Last
Howard Ord.
Subscribed Smith’s Div.,
Capital. Holding. p.c.
Australian Steamships.. £1,850,002 £1,849,997 •
Caledonian Collieries .. 1,487,894 1,194,575* Nil
Invincible Colliery .. 104,000 67,281 Nil
B.H. Prop 5,231,562 f 210,844 124
S. Portland Cement .. 850,940 388,300 Nil
Southern Blue Metal .. 248,000 50,000 Nil
* 325,034 6 p.c. prefs. and 869,541 ords.
t Paid-up at December 31, 1936, £4,733,611.
In addition, the co. holds a substantial
interest in Australian Sugar (paid capi-
tal £207,915), which sent out a steady
12 p.c. from 1924 to 1932 ; the sub-
sidiary’s accounts have not since, been
broadcast. Also, the curtain is kept
drawn over Australian Steamships’
figures. Still, other inter-State shipping
cos. showed increased profits last year,
notwithstanding the forays of the sea-
men, which affected earnings during the
first two months. H.S. held approxi-
mately 700,000 A.I. and S. ords. (no
divs. had been paid on these), for which
it received 194,444 f.-p. B.H. Prop,
shares, making its total holding in B.H.
Prop. 210,844 shares, on which 12i p.c.
£26,360) was paid during 1936.
The year’s improvement in the hold-
ing co.’s declared net earnings was
£13,079, or about half the div. received
from its share interest in B.H. Prop. The
suggestion there is that less was received
from the co.’s own operations and other
holdings, or that more was written off for
depreciation, etc. The £97,649 of profit
claimed was enough to pay the pref. div.
and show 4.1 p.c. on ord. capital. The
div. was lifted from 2% to 3| p.c., the
final being at the rate of 5 p.c. p.a.
The market, which expects the co. to
do much better, prices the fully-paid
pound ords. at 245. as against 17s. a
year ago. The return at the higher
figure is 3.1 p.c. on a 3| p.c. div. basis,
or 5 p.c. on a 6 p.c. distribution. An
all-round 6 p.c. would call for £135,000,
or £37,541 more profit than was de-
clared last year. At 255. the 6 p.c.
prefs. return 4.8 p.c. The net tangible
cover is £lO 7s. 7d. prefs. and 235. sd,
ords.
Balance-sheet figures compare as
follows:
1932. 1935. 1936.
Pref. capital .. £250,000 £200,000 £250,000
Ord. capital .. 2,000,000 2,000,000 2,000,000
Deposits . . .. 61,000 22,482 35,275
Other liabilities.. 838,409 917,947 935,624
Freeholds and
leaseholds . . 154,300 190,392 190,9/7
Shares other cos. 3,094,476 3,287,341 3,257,155
Plant .. .. 30,35 2 2 0,471 19,200
S'tocks, etc. .. 22,60 4 2 0,00 4 2 7,626
Debtors .. .. 154,811 68,008 129,020
Public securities
and cash .. 3,277 5,342 5,700
To carry an extra £61,012 of debtors’
balances and add £7622 to stocks, etc.,
the book value of shareholdings was re-
duced by £30,186 and £30,470 was added
to the debt, of which £772,524 (down
£62,524) represented amounts held on


Who Is Your Trustee?
Does he possess the knowledge and experience which the acceptance of that offl'ce
demands?
Permanent Trustee Co.
OF N.S.W., LTD
Incorporated 1888 to act as Executors and Trustees.
This Company offers unexcelled trust service, combining security and experience
with efficient administration.
Write for explanatory Booklet, sent free, on request.
Directors'.
F. N. YARWOOD
(Chairman)
SIR THOMAS BUCKLAND
W. G. HULL
0. E. FRIEND
CECIL H. DOYLE v— ■ •
J. W. BARNES, Manager. E. V. T. AVHITTLE, Asst. Mgr.
23-25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
NOBED
NO BEL-GLASGOW
EXPLOSIVES
NOBEL;
i
GELIGNITE, DYNAMITE,
BLASTING GELATINE, GELATINE DYNAMITE
A2 MONOBEL, STONOBEL AND SAMSONITE
(Permitted Explosives for Coal-mining)
NOBEL’S THISTLE BRAND SAFETY FUSE AND DETONATORS,
CABLES AND ELECTRIC DETONATOR FUSES, BATTERIES, ETC.
ELECTRIC SHOT-FIRING A SPECIALITY.
AUSTRALASIAN AGENTS:
PERTH, W.A.: Elder, Smith & Company, Limited.
ADELAIDE, S.A.: Elder, Smith & Company, Limited.
MELBOURNE, VIC.: Dalgrety & Company, Limited.
SYDNEY, N.S.W.: R. N. Kirk & Company.
SYDNEY, N.S.W.: Dalgrety & Company, Limited.
BRISBANE, QLD.: Elder, Smith & Company, Limited.
DARWIN, N.T.: Federal Government Administrator.
LAUNCESTON, TAS.: W. & G. Genders Pty., Limited.
ZEEHAN, TAS.: J. S. Mnnro & Company.
HOBART, TAS.: Chas. Davis, Limited.
AUCKLAND, N.Z.: Campbell Bros.
WELLINGTON, N.Z.: Dalgrety & Company, Limited.
DUNEDIN, N.Z.: Dalgrety & Company, Limited.
CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z.: Dalgety & Company, Limited.
INVERCARGILL, N.Z.: Dalgrety & Company, Limited.
SUVA and LAUTOKA, FIJI: Morris, Hedstrom, Limited.
Restful, silent, luxurious, durable, economical, Feltex
conveys the very essence of artistry to every room.
For sample cards and beautifully illustrated folder write to
Box 3281 PP, G.P.0., Sydney.
OBTAINABLE AT ALL GOOD FURNISHING STORES.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN"
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
behalf of subsidiary and associated cos.
Excluding shareholdings and the amount
held on behalf of subsidiaries, etc., liabili-
ties exceeded more or less liquids by
£36,028 when the books closed.
D. and W. Chandler, Ltd. (Vic.)
Towards
Net , Dividends ~ Re- Re-
Jan., Profit. Pref. Old. Total, serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1927.. 10,583 8 p.c. 6 p.c. 8,400 2183 477
1928.. 10,654 8 „ 6 „ 8,542 2112 2,589
Added goodwill, £3OO .. .• 2,289
1929.. 11,261 8 p.c. 6 p.c. 9,245 2016 4,305
1930.. 12,823 8 „ 6 „ 11,255 1568 5,873
1931.. 2,853 4 „ Nil 2,738 115 5,988
Loss.
1932.. 3,683 Nil Nil 2,305
Profit.
1933.. 2,082 Nil Nil 2082 4,387
Added patent rights, £2l .. .. 4,366
1934.. 274 Nil Nil 274 4,640
1935.. 8,501 9*p.c. Nil 6,252 2066 6,706
Deficit.
Reserves capitalised, £14,500 .. 7,794
Written off intangibles, £7l .. 7,723
1936.. 13,727 6 p.c. 6 p.c. 11,475 2252 5,471
Added intangibles, £25 .. •• 5,496
1937.. 14,172 6 p.c. 6 p.c. 11,475 2697 2,799
*lncludes special payment of £725.
The present co. took over the then 48-
year-old builders’ hardware and agricul-
tural implement business of D. and W.
Chandler in 1922 ; and only once since
(in 1924) has it shown more than £14,172
of profit. It has seven stores in Vic. —
one at Flinders-lane, another at Fitzroy
and five in country centres —and there .'s
a subsidiary, W. Hart and Son, at Laun-
ceston, Tas. Over a third of the turn-
over is in lines manufactured in the co.’s
own factories, of which there are half
a dozen. For the five years to the close
of accounts in 1930 the ords. got a steady
6 p.c. from profits averaging 8.1 p.c. on
ord. capital. Then slump interrupted
the flow, and the div. on £72,500 8 p.c.
pref. money had fallen £26,100 into
arrears at the end of January, 1935. The
slate was cleaned by first paying a year’s
div. (£5800) at the old rate, which
was then reduced to 6 p.c., leaving
£15,225 to come, of which £14,500 was
capitalised by the issue of pref. scrip ;
the other £725 was paid in cash. The
gift made 6 p.c. worth 7.2 p.c. on old
holdings, and the prefs. have the right
to advance with the ords. after the latter
have had 6 p.c. and to participate in new
share issues.
With the recovery of the building
trade and the rise in the price of farm
products, especially wheat, turnover soon
revived, and an all-round 6 p.c. was paid
in 1936. During the last term there was
a marked increase in demand for the
co.’s own manufactures, and gross earn-
ings (£78,910) moved up £9755. The
growth in exes. (£64,738) was £9310,
owing partly to wage increases. The net
result (up £445) was 7.4 p.c. on capital.
The div. was kept at 6 p.c., and it is
doubtful whether much, if any, better
need be expected.
The purchase of premises at 560 Lons-
dale-street, Melbourne, previously rented,
and at Barkly-street, North Fitzroy,
added £20,661 net to the book value of
freeholds:
1931. 1935. 1936. 1937.
Paid capital.. £176,750 £176,750 £191,250 £191,250
Liabilities . . 73,190 64,903 58,024 100,390
Freeholds .. 43,312 43,000 45,212 65,873
Plant, etc. . . 25,293 22,123 23,997 25,757
Stocks. . . . 141,404 148,554 136,005 148,787
Book debts . . 30,197 25,761 29,294 35,198
Chsh, etc. .. 1,460 825 2,159 2,964
Shares other cos. 16,000 16,000 16,000 16,000
The growth of £12,782 in stocks was due
partly to the rise in metal prices, which
has continued since the close of accounts,
To meej: the outlay on premises, plant
and stocks, and carry an extra £5904 of
debtors’ balances, the co. went outside
for an extra £42,366. The contraction
in the more or less liquid surplus
(£86,559) was £22,875.
To lighten the amount coming to out-
siders, and therefore the interest bill,
shareholders (prefs. and ords.) on the
register at March 23 will be offered
38,250 new £1 ords., one for five, at par.
When all the money on that lot is in,
paid capital will be £229,500, on which
6 p.c. will call for £13,770, or £402 less
than was netted last year.
The market prices both classes of
scrip, ex rights, at 235. 9d., at which
figure the return is 5 p.c. on a 6 p.c. div.
basis. Including the new issue, the net
tangible cover is 525. Id. prefs. and 19s.
7d. ords. The rights have sold at Is.
or thereabouts.
Hotel Sydney, Ltd.
To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
1926.. 16,723 10 p.c. = 13,000 3723 10,088
1927.. 14,653 10 „ „ 13,000 1653 11,741
1928.. 14,961 10 „ „ 13,000 1961 13,702
1929.. 14,026 10 „ „ 13,000 1026 14,728
1930.. 4,671 4 „ „ 5,200 14,199
Loss.
1931.. 2,150 Nil 12,049
Written off, £3OOO .. .. .. 9,049
Profit.
1932.. 533 Nil 533 9,582
1933.. 187 Nil 187 9,769
Renovations charged to reserves, £2191.. 7,578
1934.. 940 jjil 940 8,518
1935.. 2,854 21 p.c. = 3,250 8,122
1936.. 5,856 4' „ „ 5,200 656 8,778
The outlook for this co., whose prem-
ises in Hay-street face the Central
railway station across Belmore Park, is
brighter than at any time since exten-
sion of the railway into the city, slump
and it's concomitants and the stoppage
of suburban buses interrupted a run of
10 p.c. divs. half a dozen years ago.
Shareholders got into the picture again
with 2y p.c. in 1935, when approxi-
mately £3250 was spent on new bars
and other furnishings were renewed or
renovated. This, growth of employment,
rise in prices, partial restoration of the
bus services, and increase in the number
of country and other visitors to Sydney
have all contributed to a steady increase
in the co.’s takings. These sprang £4lBl,
reaching £33,576 last year. Including
£4347 struck off for depreciation and
amortisation of the lease (it runs out in
1960), exes. (£27,720) took £l9BB of the
increase. Allowing for reserve adjust-
ments in the previous term, the net
result was £3002 better at 4.5 p.c. on
capital, and the div. was lifted to 4 p.c.
It all fitted in pretty well with market
anticipations, the price of the fully-paid
pound shares advancing from 14s. 6d. to
15s. 3d. over the last 12 months. The
return at 15s. 3d. is 5.2 p.c. on a 4 p.c.
div. basis, which suggests that at the
moment the market does not anticipate
much further increase in earnings. Cer-
tainly conditions for the co. are not what
they were before the slump. Still, tak-
ings have continued to increase since
the close of accounts, and immediate
prospects favor a better showing at next
balance, when a bit better than 4 p.c.
may not prove beyond reach.
After a nine years’ struggle, including
five without a license, divs. commenced
in 1921. Two years later capital was
doubled by a gift issue, raising it to its
present figure, assets being written up
£65,000 for the purpose. Then the
premises were remodelled and extended,
and the board went to its bankers for
the money, lifting the overdraft to
£50,954 at the end of 1927. Results
failed to come up to expectations, though
enough was netted to pay a regular 10
p.c. till 1929.
Last year £6819 was clipped off the
overdraft (it is secured by a mortgage
debenture over the whole undertaking),
reducing it to £19,218:
1925. 1930. 1935. 1936.
Paid capital. . £130,000 £130,000 £130,000 £130,000
Overdraft .. 19,125 45,334 26,037 19,218
Creditors .. 6,474 4,858 4,054 5,479
Buildings . . 137,373 164,349 150,254 147,042
Furniture, etc. 25,276 26,288 17,048 14,359
Stocks . . 5,184 3,674 2,706 3,188
Book debts, etc. 3,559 3,329 2,096 3,512
The book value of the lease was re-
duced by £3212 net, and plant by
£2689. The year’s improvement in the
excess of liabilities over more, or less
liquids was £7292, reducing the figure to
£17,997. Though a sinking fund for
amortisation of the lease has been
created, the board has not yet been able
to invest the. money outside the business.
Wright, Heaton and Co., Ltd. (Sydney)
Dividends and To Re— Re-
Profit. Bonuses. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
Jan., ’27 . . 15,710 20 p.c. = 13,750 1,960 162,859
July, ’27 . . 17,785 20 „ „ 13,750 4,035 166.894
Jan., ’2B . . 17,799 20 „ „ 13,750 4,049 170,943
July, ’2B . . 15,085 20 „ „ 13,750 1,335 172,278
Jan., ’29 .. 15,375 20 „ „ 13,750 1,625 173,903
July, ’29 . . 15,527 20 „ „ 13,750 1,777 175,680
Jan., ’3O . . 15,074 20 „ „ 13,750 1,324 177,004
July, ’3O . . 17,448 20 „ „ 13,750 3,698 180,702
Jan., ’3l . . 3,281 14 „ „ 9,625 174,358
July, ’3l .. 1,141 Nil 1,141 175,499
Jan., ’32 .. 6,747 8 p.c. = 5,500 1,247 176,746
July, ’32 . . 8,242 8 „ „ 5,500 2,742 179,488
Jan., ’33 . . 9,679 10 „ „ 6,875 2,804 182,2&2
July, ’33 .. 14,346 10 „ „ 6,875 7,471 189,763
Transfer to inner reserves, £7471 .. 182,292
Jan., ’34 . . 13,258 12 p.c. = 8,250 5,008 187,300
Transfer to inner reserves, £5OOB .. 182,292
July, ’34 .. 11,921 12 p.c. = 8,250 3,671 185,963
Transfer to inner reserves, £3671.. 182,292
Jan., ’35 .. 14,313 12 p.c. = 8,250 6,063 188,355
Transfer to inner reserves, £6063 .. 182,292
July, ’35 . . 14,510 12 p.c. = 8,250 6,260 188,552
Transfer to inner reserves, £6260.. 182,292
Jan., ’36 .. 12,926 12 p.c. = 8,250 4,676 186,968
Transfer to inner reserves, £4676.. 182,292
July, ’36 .. 13,468 12 p.c. = 8,250 5,218 187,510
Transfer to inner reserves, £5218.. 182,292
Written off from inner reserves,
£2804 ; reserve disclosed, £12,926. . 195,218
Jan., ’37 .. 15,145 12 p.c. = 8,250 6,895 202,113
The management of this well-ribbed
produce, agency and carrying co., whose
business is scattered throughout the back-
country in N. S. Wales, has always shown
a remarkable capacity for adapting itself
to the many changes that have taken
place in country life, and at intervals
has owned up that earnings have been
better than the published accounts
claimed. Over the 20 years to the end
of July, 1930, divs., which climbed from
10 p.c. to 20 p.c., were sweetened with
£45,000 of bonus scrip, a cash bonus of
£25,000 was paid, £55,195 was brought
from hiding and put in the window, and
another £20,000 of inner reserves was
used to write down the book value of
premises. Then, for the first time since
1895, shareholders were passed by for
the half-year ended July, 1931. But sails
were soon trimmed to altered trade,
winds, and 8 p.c. was sent out in the
next year, followed by 10 p.c. and then
12 p.c. for the 3y years to the end of
January last.
During the 12 months to the close of
last accounts, turnover further improved,
(Continued on next page.)


A SURE FRIEND IN UNCERTAIN TIMES
A Prudent wife is
GREAT RICHES
THE wife who has understanding and wisdom will
see that her man is a member of the A.M.P., and
she will urge him to be adequately assured.
Having the seeing eye and the hearing ear (as well
as children to protect), she will understand that while a
little Life Assurance is a Good Thing, Adequate Assur-
ance is better. She will have her husband tot up the
value of his A.M.P. policies, and the income they
would bring if invested, and then see that he ADD to
them for his peace of mind as well as hers. From time
to time, as he goes off in the morning, she will say to
him: “Don’t forget to see the A.M.P.”
A certain member of the Society (who said,
recently, that his wife was responsible for the excellent
arrangement of his policies) took out his first policy
when he was 18 years of age. Others followed at 20,
22, 24, 26 (when he was married), 28 (for his first-
born), 30 (for his second-born, a daughter), and at 36,
which was last year. Neither he nor his wife needs to
worry about their financial future. It is as secure as
the A.M.P. itself.
If YOU lack peace of mind in this matter, write or
’phone the nearest A.M.P. office before the day is out.
Don’t delay. Even to-morrow may be too late.
AMP. SOCIETY
The Largest Mutual Life Office in the Empire.
C. A. ELLIOTT, F.1.A., A. W. SNEDDON. F.1.A.,
Actuary. General Manager.
C. M. MARTIN,
Secretary and Chief Inspector.
D. E. WALKER, •
Manager for New South Wales. .
HEAD OFFICE: 87 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Branch Offices at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth and
Hobart.
District Offices throughout all States. . -
New Zealand Branch Office: Customhouse Quay, Wellington.
If you have ores for sale write: —
NORMAN HILL & CO., LTD.,
Cathcart -House, Sydney.
Buyers: Gold ores and concentrates, Silver Lead
ores, Molybdenite, Scheelite, Wolfram, Tin ores,
etc., etc.
Public Notice.
FORESTRY BONDS. —Those wishing to sell
I* N.Z. Perpetual Forests Ltd. Investments
will get highest prices by communication with
G.P.O. BOX 1765 (Melbourne).
PATENTS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents. — Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLL1SON, Patent Attorneys, 483
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). —Advt.
* # * *
AUSTRALASIAN timberlands and plantation
valuation surveys, milling plans, certification oi
shipments. L MACINTOSH ELLIS, B.Sc. (late
Director State Forest Service, New Zealand), Consult-
ing Forest Engineer, 8 Bond Street, Sydney. Ad\t.
* * * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts,
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament
hydraulic, electric and general engineers,
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes
lifts and other machinery. Colonial Mutual n
Building, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
For all Pump Repairs and Replacements, get > n
touch with William Adams & Company, Lmntea,
175 Clarence Street, Sydney. Agents for WOK in
INGTON PUMPS for all services. Write tor our
1930 General Catalogue.— Advt.
and so did the collection of accounts in-
curred in previous years, thanks mainly
to the rise in the prices of wool and
wheat. After transferring “portion of
the profits” from the Vic. subsidiary
(McCulloch Carrying Co.) to an inner
reserve for doubtful debts, and includ-
ing £6059 written back from tax reserve,
etc., the year’s net result was £1177 better
at £28,613, or 20.8 p.c. on capital. The
div. was kept at 12 p.c. During the 31-
years to the end of July, 1936, £38,367
of the declared net earnings was whisked
away to inner reserves, of which £12,926
is now disclosed.
Finances are snug:—
( January
1930. 1932. 1936. 1937.
Paid capital.. £137,500 £137,500 £137,500 £137,500
Liabilities .. 131,331 78,239 87,988 90,86 G
Premises, plant,
etc. . . 51,236 47,209 56,205 58,438
Stocks . . 129,410 82,924 115,266 106,350
Book debts . . 217,913 173,004 151,761 159,019
McCulloch Co. 68,022 51,189 45,393 48,737
Cash & invest-
ments . . 7,943 48,914 61,731 75,925
Including advances to McCullochs
(£23,737, up £3344), the more or less
liquid surplus (£274,165) was £13,002
stronger than at the previous balance.
The market prices the fully-paid 50s.
shares at £8 2s. 6d., at which figure the
return is 3.7 p.c, on a 12 p.c. div. basis.
The investor who looks for a shade
under 5 p.c. on his money counts on
a 16 p.c. distribution. The net tangible
cover is visibly £6 3s. 6d., of which
£4 19s. Bd. is surplus liquids.
Tanah Biji, a prospecting and holding
co. formed in Malaya in 1925 with a
capital of £25,000, has been an outstand-
ing success. In 1928 capital was in-
creased to £lOO,OOO by a three-for-one
bonus scrip issue. The figure was re-
duced to £37,500 in 100,000 shares of 7s.
6d. each in January last —this by distri-
bution to shareholders of 150,000 10s.
shares (valued at Bs. 4d. for the purpose
of return) in Rawang Tin Fields. These
Rawang shares are worth over £lOO,OOO
in the market to-day. The co. still holds
25,000 Jelapang £1 shares, market value
£50,000, and 43,833 Rawang 10s. shares,
market value over £30,000 —together,
say, £BO,OO0 —besides a half-interest in
Berjuntai, an unequipped area of
120,000,000 c.y. of .51b. ground, which
is a very valuable property with tin at its
present price. Shareholders can thank
Percy Penman, who supervised prospect-
ing operations, for much of the co.’s suc-
cess. At 255. per share the market now
values Tanah Biji’s remaining assets at
£125,000.
* ' * * *
Thanks to the lift in the price of tin
and discovery of several rich patches of
ore, now worked out, Carpathia Tin
(N.S.W.) in the six months to Jan. 31
last was able to turn the preceding
period’s loss of £834 into a profit of
£1790. Altogether 55 tons 15cwt. of con-
centrates was obtained, most of the 1396
tons ore (head assay 3 p.c., with .35 p.c.
values in the tailings) put through the
mill coming from No. 44 winze. Here
the ore-body has pinched from 24ft. by
14ft. to 17ft. by 9yft., while values have
diminished. Soakage is also a problem.
As mining and prospecting have dis-
closed “nothing of a permanent nature,”
the board has arranged for a geophysical
survey of its Ardlethan property by the
Mines Department. Including 60,000
f.-p. vendors’ shares, paid capital is
£45,424. At balance date the co. held
cash of £4487 to cover liabilities of
£614 ; the mine was in at cost (£36,322),
and other assets were valued at £11,426.
No account is taken of some 25,000 tons
of tailings, retreatment of which was
suspended in the previous term, then
estimated to contain £6OOO worth of
recoverable t.o.
* * * *
There is talk of the old Mareeba gold-
field (N.Q.) receiving more attention.
The richest producer there was the
Queen Constance, which between 1893
and 1895 yielded 91020 z. from 16,632
tons, valued at £34,132. Crushings aver-
aged a fraction over yoz. The mine has
been idle since 1895.
* * * *
Westralia’s latest' gold find, the first
reported since discovery of the specta-
cular Halley’s Comet, Marble Bar, is
near Lake Barlee, 100 miles north-west
of Menzies. Good prospects are reported
to be visible for a mile or more along
the top of an auriferous range. As in
the case of the Comet, Claude de Ber-
nales has the option.
* * * *
Mt. Ida, about 80 miles north of Men-
zies (W.A.), appears to have the makings
of a small but good goldmine. Accord-
ing to Dr. Moss, consulting engineer, ore
reserves of a recoverable grade of
16ydwt. are: broken in stope and on
surface 600 tons, reserves 2000 tons,
probable reserves 2500 tons, possible re-
serves 1500 tons. The show is worked
by a Perth co.
* * * *
North Kalgurli, Ltd., reports all well
at depth in the old Kalgurli mine, and
expects to take more gold out of the
property in the future than has been ex-
tracted in the past. Years ago, when
operated by a London co., the Kalgurli,
which adjoins the North Kalgurli block
on the north, ranked among the big tellu-
ride producers on the Kalgoorlie Golden
Mile. Dividends were regular and sub-
stantial, and the £1 shares (there were
120,000 of them) rose to £l4 in the
market. Then values in the big bulge, of
ore which contained the wealth became
less at depth, and the market lost interest.
Finally, operations were abandoned and
the co. liquidated. Later North Kalgurli
acquired the property.
* * * *
The old Mararoa, at Norseman, is
another instance of an abandoned West-
ralian show being turned to profitable
account. Modern treatment plant, in-
stalled by Central Norseman, a sub-
sidiary of Western Mining Corp., is crush-
ing profitable ore. Production for Feb-
ruary was worth £7160. An interesting
development is the intersection by a,
diamond drill of about 3ft. of sydwt. ore
in the west wall of the lode at No. 8
level.
* * * *
Kalgoorlie shareholders in Consoli-
dated Gold Areas are again demanding
that their “rights be protected.” Unless
development is cheapened and acceler-
ated, a treatment plant installed, and
negotiations for the amalgamation of the
co. with another halted, they threaten to
write to the Stock Exchanges and bump
up against the board in other ways.
What is wanted is an independent report
on the property, whose poorness at depth
is one reason why the market values the
show at less than the amount of cash
in hand.
* * * *
Great Boulder (W.A.) is earning satis-
factory profits, an extensive development
scheme is being carried out, additional
treatment plant is being installed, and
ore reserves are reported to be expand-
ing. Not long ago Great Boulder Mining
and Finance, Ltd., took up (on the re-
commendation of Claude de Bernales,
now Great Boulder’s chairman) 166,667
previously unissued shares at Bs. 6d. each
(stg.), or over 2s. more than they are now
quoted in London.
* * * *
Tindals, formed two years ago in
London with a substantial working capi-
tal, is so satisfied with prospects down
to 500 ft. that it is calling tenders for the
initial unit of a 10,000-ton-a-month treat-
ment plant. Metallurgical tests are re-
ported to have shown that a 90 p.c. gold
extraction can be obtained from straight
cyanidation.
* * * *
Hill 50 (W.A.) claims to have more or
less adjusted plant troubles, reduced
costs, and to be on the eve of treating
2000 tons a month. Shareholders are
urged to forget past mishaps, worries and
failures, and think of the co.’s possibili-
ties of earning profits and distributing
dividends.
* * * *
New Golconda and Gambier Lass, two
of the smaller Westralian shows, issued
quarterly financial statements the other
day. The former’s bank balance was
£6886 and the latter’s £5785. In each
case creditors figured for small amounts.
Both have hopes, and where there is cash
there is sometimes justification for hopes
in goldmining.
* * * *
From August, when production began,
to the end of December it cost Yellow-
dine Gold Options (W.A.) £4259 to get
£6812 worth of gold out of the Three
Boys, and £3929 to cover expenditure on
development and plant. Work at No. 2
level has been suspended, and applica-
tion has been made to the Mines Depart-
ment for a loan of £3OOO. Meanwhile
a penny call has been made,.
* * * *
Associated Mining and Finance, Ltd.,
a holding co. largely interested in Lake
View, Wiluna, Gold Fields Australian
Development and Golden Horse Shoe, is
reported to have acquired holdings in
two Transvaal goldmining ventures. The
co. is one of two offshoots of the old
Associated Gold Mines of W.A. (in liq.L
which at one time operated a section of
the Kalgoorlie Golden Mile.
* * * *
Ore reserves, actual and probable, in
the principal Westralian goldmines are
now estimated at upwards of 10,000,000
tons, of which Lake View has 3,197,200
and Wiluna 2,413,700. Most, of the
balance is in Gt. Boulder, North Kal-
gurli, Sons of Gwalia, Boulder Persever-
~ance, South Kalgurli, Lancefield, Big
Bell and Triton and the De Bernales
group.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
A.A.G.: H01d... .E.W.A.: Future of ords.
very doubtful....H.C.F.: Exercise your rights.
G.A.M.: (1) Everything depends upon
the quality of the paper accepted, and there-
fore on the management. (2) T. J. Richards’s
prefs. are worth consideration. At 295. they
return 6.9 p.c.; net tangible cover, £5 Bs. lOd.
GJ.L.: (1) Price depends upon interest
rates, which may rise a trifle yet. (2) Well
selected industrials likely to yield better average
return in long run. (3) Thoroughly sound,
with prospect of better average return than
Consols J.M.: (1) and (2) Yes.., .H.E.G.:
(1) and (2) Doubtful. (3) A speculation, with
fair prospects, though you may have to wait
a few years for satisfactory divs.... .W.M.:
Burns’s floor nearly stoped out. Future of mine
depends upon development of new ore-bodies
on Whitelaw’s floor; nothing highly encourag-
ing yet met with 8.E.N.: (1) 1936 prices for
International Nickel common stock were:
highest s66f, lowest $431 ; prefs., . highest
$136, lowest SI2SJ. Lift in metal prices has
enhanced prospects. (2) Sherritt Gordon’s dollar
shares, which rose from one to 2.95 dollars
in 1936, sold at over three dollars a couple
of months ago.


ins clear the way for.
ECONOMICAL MOTORING/
Good sparking plugs, in good condition,
are the vital link between good luel and
good engine performance. Champion
Soarking Plugs give intense sparks that
explode the lull charge instantly.
No wasted iueL For greatest
economy install new Champions
once every year.
Sparking
Plugs
Chamnion
Obtainable at all leading automotive supply dealers
MADE IN WINDSOR . CANADA • • -AN EMPIRE
HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney
r.
*„•
Mk
$!
mi
PH
in
it mil)
am
fit
I
if!
iiirt
111
Mil
* ™ '
iff!
Modern high-class accommodation
at a moderate tariff. Hot and cold
water in all rooms. Rooms with
and without private Bathrooms
and Telephones available. Meals
at moderate rates unexcelled
cuisine Dining Rooms, Grill
Room, Banquet Room and Winter-
garden, together with a first-class
orchestra.
Rooms only from 6/6 per night.
Telegrams, Cables and Wireless:
“ METROPOLE” Sydney.
Telephones: 8W2061 (9 lines)
86363 (4 lines)
SMOKE-OH!
“I escaped from cannibals by playing the
gramophone,” says a missionary.
Evidently one of those cool men who
hate to get into a stew.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Correspondent asks the ‘Question Box’
column of a Sydney paper what to do with a
pain in the neck that has become troublesome.”
Can’t he send her away for a holiday?
4* 4* 4* 4*
When it comes to women, some men
have a very strong weakness.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Two of the waiters became ill after eating
a quantity of the food, and so far no cure has
been found.” — Melb. “Herald.”
Did anyone think of pouring oil into
the troubled waiters?
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Well-knitted jumpers can make even plain
women attractive.” — Women’s journal.
Then beauty is only skein-deep.
4* 4* 4* 4*
The woman a man considered ideal
before marriage, he often considers a
misdeal after.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“The young men of to-day can’t see some of
the foolish things that occur right under their
noses.” — Company director.
No, otherwise they’d shave ’em off.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Simple Substitution.
“As for the Coronation trip, no one but Mr.
Stevens should go instead of Mr. Stevens.”
— “Sun.”
Failing Mr. Stevens, however, there
is always Mr. Stevens, and if he declines
then Mr. Stevens should immediately be
approached.
In the event of the Premier being un-
able to accept, the obvious course is to
invite the Premier.
But perhaps he, too, would be un-
available. Then, in the interests of the
State, we should risk Mr. Stevens's
wrath and give him a surprise invitation.
There would be only two coursers left
if Mr. Stevens were to refuse: (1) We
could ask Mr. Stevens to go; (2) we
could give Mr. Stevens the chance to
represent the electors at the Coronation.
D.S.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Women should have as much say as men,”
declares a feminist.
Yes—but how get women to agree to
the reduction?
4* 4* 4* 4*
“The police said that he had served a. sen-
tence of 42 days in gaol last October.”
— “D.T.”
Hence the term “a stretch.”
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Party to honor Lord and Lady Mayoress.”
—Melbourne “Herald.”
Doubtless to celebrate the Lord Mayor-
ess’s new title.
Where There’s Smoke.
“I’m just a campfire girl.”
—Mae West in a movie magazine.
Cum grano salis some would take
This statement, would they not ?
And, white I some allowance make
For what she says for limelight’s sake,
I’ll bet that fire’s hot!
Percy.
4* 4- 4* 4*
Mourning.
“An Indian prince who got his title and
money by marrying a Maharani, now dead,
announces that, to mourn for her in complete
solitude, he intends to go to Tristan da Cunha,
where he will erect a second Taj Mahal to her
memory.”
That’s what' I would do if I had a
wife who was good enough to die and
leave me a lot of money—l mean good
enough to leave me a lot of money
when she died.
I would live in absolute solitude. Of
course, I would have to have workmen
to build my Taj Mahal. There would
have to be people to direct and super-
vise them ; and, as it would be heartless
“Loathsome objects, ain't they?”
to. gather a lot of workmen together
without providing for their amusement,
there would have to be a theatre and so
forth.
But even though it is a custom of the
solitary place I have, in mind for leading
citizens to keep a harem I would never
forget that I was mourning for my wife.
All the girls, however beautiful, would
have to wear black.
H. M.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“The average business man has no idea of
how to milk a cow.”
On a farm he would be an udder
failure.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Wild Notes.
“A flautist who was second in a competition
learned to play the instrument on a bicycle-
pump.”—News item.
We were, a musical family, and even
as children had our own little orchestra.
I was the star member, though I say it
myself, when I played the xylophone on
the front fence. My father led the band,
playing first fiddle on the frying-pan,
mother played the organ on the wring-
ing-machine, my elder brother played the
saxophone on the vacuum-cleaner, young
John, our cornetist, played the footprints,
and Mary played the harp on the dis-
carded end of an old bedstead. Our
favorite, item was Mendelssohn’s “Song
Without Words,” to the tune of “Auld
Lang Syne.”
I shall never forget the local Operatic
Society’s performance of “Faust,” with
our orchestra, augmented by Jock
Thompson from next door playing the
bagpipes on an old football, supplying
the incidental music. The audience was
wildly enthusiastic, or vice versa.
The evening was marred by one small
incident, when flash young Harry Smith
shouted from the. back that he couldn t
hear the singer, who promptly replied
that, as he would not have been heard
above the orchestra, anyway, he hadn’t
bothered to sing.
The opera was a great success, and the
first-night audience insisted that we give
a repeat performance, as it was not fair
that half the town should “miss such a
treat,” as the Mayor said.
M. A. D.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“At Wewak, in New Guinea, miners are
clearing £4O a week.” — “S.M.H.”
And a pretty good Wewak, too.
Strike Wanted.
“Stay-in strikes are not new,” roared
the little man. “For many years I have
been advocating one; and I still advo-
cate it. I believe that every man should
have his rights, and this is the only way
to get them. I demand a good home,
three good meals a day and a comfort-
able bed to sleep in. Little enough!
Yet I do not get them. I repeat that
staying in is absolutely imperative!”
“Here, you!” snarled the burly police-
man, pushing his way roughly to the agi-
tator. “Who are you trying to encourage
to stay in?”
“My wife, sergeant,” said the agitator
meekly.
Sef.
4* 4*
My wife can do two things at once;
Her boast, however, makes me frown.
Too often when she’s dressing up
She’s giving me a dressing down.
H. M.
Hints for Husbands.
[This informative and helpful series, written
by an expert, is especially designed to assist
husbands whom abnormal circumstances may
force to perform various domestic tasks, or
who are simply ordered to do them.]
I. —The Washing.
Well may even the strongest husband,
confronted with empty tubs, a dirty-
clothes basket frothing over with a
week’s, or perhaps even a fortnight’s,
wash, and complete ignorance of the
modus operandi, blanch at the task
before him.
First empty the clothes-basket. Don’t
just upend it —that is too crude. Dive
into it and take up handfuls of clothes
until there are only a few articles left in
the bottom. Excellent exercise may here
be had by endeavoring to get these out
without falling right in and spiking your
neck on the broken cane at the top—
all dirty-clothes baskets have broken
tops.
Next separate the “coloreds” from the
white articles. “Coloreds” include silk
stockings, bedspreads, scanties, dusters,
corsets, doormats, bootrags, fur coats,
etc. These should be done separately ;
i.e., they should not be boiled with the
“whites,” but can be put in together after
the first boiling. The object of this is to
ensure that the white dye doesn’t come
out of the sheets, pillow-cases, etc., and
“run” into, say, a fur coat, which would
give it a piebald look. Corsets before
being boiled should always be de-boned
and the supports numbered as they are
taken out to ensure that they go back
in their correct positions. Failure to do
this will mean that long bones may be
put back into small slots, in which case
the piece sticking out would have to be
snapped off to fill in the long slots which
only have small bones. This makes the
corsets untidy looking, which may in
turn lead to domestic discord. The
writer made this same mistake early in
his own marital career, resulting in his
wife’s puncturing three ribs when she
sneezed.
Having pushed all the white things
into the copper, cover them with water,
throw in a few bars of soap and light the
gas or fire, as the case may be. You
may now temporarily pursue some other
hobby, as you can’t do anything else
until they come to the boil. You will
become aware of this later when a hiss-
ing, splashing sound issues from the
laundry. Here is your cue. Don your
gumboots and proceed to pop up. A
filled copper rarely allows more than
two inches of water over the laundry
floor. To the town-dwelling washer-
man, turning the gas low while the boil-
ing water cascades over the copper adds
just that degree of excitement that
makes this sport worth while.
Now pull them all out with the pot-
stick. When, exerting leverage, the stick
slips off a sheet and you are liberally
splashed with hot water, remember,
above all, not to swear. Having got
them all out, put the “coloreds” in, tak-
ing care to fold in any fur coats so as to
protect the fur. Black doormats should
only be put in with black fur coats, so
that if the dyes boil out they will run
into each other.
When these have been boiling for
about an hour (“coloreds,” not showing
the dirt so much, are worn longer and
therefore, need longer boiling) pull them
out and put them in one side of the tub
with the “whites” and swill with water.
Now put them all through the wringer.
Corsets should be reboned before wring-
ing so that they will be already shaped
when they come through. When bulky
articles like fur coats, bedspreads, etc.,
get stuck in a bunch, open the wringer
up to allow them to go through.
The clothes are now ready for the
line.
S. W. K.
Maestro Mastered.
My Harry is a harpist, and
He loves me very much;
He plays his harp in father’s band
At parties, hops and such.
But l won’t marry Harry ; no,
E’en though I wear his ring,
Because, too harried by his art,
My Harry sleep-walks nightly {so
I’m told) and drags the bed apart
And strums upon the spring!
MISS SMITH.


20 Sound Baskets
for Investors’
Twenty First Class Australian securities, each one having
sound financial resources and each being a leader in its class,
are grouped together to form an investment of impregnable
strength.
Participation in this scientific spread is made possible by
investment in
FIRST AUSTRALIAN UNIT TRUST CERTIFICATES
showing an approximate gross yield of
4|% per annum.
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OF CANTON, LTD.,
Union Building, Bond Street, Sydney,
are Custodian Trustees for purchasers of these certificates,
in which sums of £25 and upwards can be invested.
Remember— ONE Certificate, ONE Transaction
covers 20 Companies.
Explanatory booklet is obtainable from any Stockbroker,
or direct from the Managers of the Trust: —
AUSTRALIAN FIXED TRUSTS PTY., LTD.,
8-14 BOND STREET, SYDNEY.
BOX 4028 V.V., G.P.O.
TELEPHONE: 85204.
Business,Rollery,Etc.
Interest-rate Controversy
Last week the Commonwealth Bank
Board’s opinion on the interest question
was given here, with comments. The
board’s- opinion was that interest costs
should cease rising, and perhaps drop
slightly. The argument raised against
this judgment was that trading banks are
not quickly getting the benefit of in-
creased export income; imports have
risen also, though not in quite the same
proportion, and in any case there are so
many counter-attractions for investment
at present that the “multiplication” of
credit facilities resulting from increased
national income has often been done
before, the trading banks see the money
as anything but a fluctuating balance.
That is why fixed deposits up to the
present have been hard to attract. By
reason of the large-scale re-employment
savings-bank deposits are nearly a
record. There have been a regressive
movement in trading-bank deposits and
a continued climb in advances.
The banking position, though it looks
easier in some respects (especially as
regards pastoral and agricultural ad-
vances), appears likely to continue to be
subject to credit-extension difficulties so
long as speculation remains boisterous.
Many people are making speculative ven-
tures in shares and business and property
propositions, and with the rise in com-
modity and other prices there may be.
small hope of interest-cost relief. If the
cost of living rises—many are predicting
that it will —interest rates may be ex-
pected to harden also, as people with
their savings on fixed deposits and in
Consols will be more and more drawn
towards higher-interest-bearing industrial
equities.
The National Bank of Australasia also
has opinions not entirely in accord with
the Central Bank Board:
Having regard to the general trend of
interest rates, holders- of high-priced in- '
dustrials or those contemplating invest-
ment of funds in that section of the market
should give some thought to the return
which they may expect on their funds.
As gilt-edged securities are giving from
4 p.c. to 4| p.c. partly free of taxation, and
as the trend of the interest rate is still
upward, investors in industrial shares
should look for a prospective return of at
least 5 p.c., and unless that return can be
expected not only for a year or two but
over a period, the shares may be con-
sidered too high for permanent holding.
It must also be remembered that the
greatly-increased profits shown by indus-
trial companies in the last year or two are
due not only to the general recovery in
trade, but also to the satisfying of demands
which had been severely restricted during
the depression. The replenishment of
stocks which had been kept at low levels
and the strong revival of building are also
factors which cannot be counted upon in
the next few years. Two other points must
also be taken into account, viz., increas-
ing costs in industry due to advances in
prices of raw materials and rising wage
rates following the higher cost of living,
and the fact that the growing demand for
funds may lead to higher interest rates for
accommodation, from both banks and
private lenders, including in the latter class
the subscribers to debenture and preference
issues. The prices of industrial shares
may not be at their peak, but: at least
caution on the part of those considering
more or less permanent investment of funds
is advisable.
It. seems to be. generally indicated that
caution is still required in planning
“Gentlemen, as unfortunately Mr. Samuels, our president, is suffering from a sprained Wrist, he has asked
me to speak for him.”
ahead, whether the plans relate to public
finance, business management or private
investment. The doing of the wrong
thing on a big scale almost. always,
aggravates the swing of the pendulum.
Especially since the shares of North
and South were split up into ss. counters,
Barrier scrip has soared with booming
metal markets. There was a slight jolt
last week when metals weakened ; then
a partial recovery. Some people who
bought Broken Hill stocks as a spec, at
low prices are wondering what to do.
To those who wish to be sure of their
profit it is suggested that Norths and
Souths be sold. To retain a long-term
interest in the great silver-lead field, in-
vestors couldn’t do better than hold Zinc
Corps.
In 1935-36 North Broken Hill pro-
duced approximately 58,290 tons of lead,
3,248,0000 z. silver and 40,640 tons of
spelter. The metals averaged £l6 4s. 5d.,
2s. 2.3 d. and £l5 3s. lid. sterling for the
term —a rise of £4 18s. sd. a ton in the case
of lead, £2 6s. 4d. spelter, and a drop
of a fraction of a penny an ounce in
silver. Last week’s London quotes
showed rises of about £l6 sterling a ton
in lead on the 1935-36 average and £lB
in spelter. Silver was down about 4d.
The basic wage at the Barrier, including
lead bonuses, is now at its maximum
under the agreement —£6 10s. per weex
—and it continues, subject to the price
of lead, until Oct. 29, 1938. This will
mean increased costs. However, if £3O
sterling is averaged, for lead and spelter,
year in,, year out, and silver stays where it
is, North’s annual gross revenue should be
at least £1.700,000 (Aust.) better than in
1935-36, when net profit was declared at
£636,940. If mine expenditure rose 50
p.c. by reason of the increase in wages
from the minimum of £4 10s. to £6 10s.
per week (50 p.c. is a liberal allowance),
net earnings per year should exceed
£2,000,000 Aust., subject to taxation. As
for the current term, for the seven
months to the end of January lead aver-
aged £l9 17s. sterling, spelter £l5 14s.
If last week’s quotes are maintained to
June 30 next, averages for the current
term should be about £27 and £24 re-
spectively, and net profit over £1,500,000
Australian. The important “if” in these
calculations is mainly the future of metal
prices and, after Oct., 1938, the future
of labor costs.
Broken Hill South’s recovered mineral
extraction in 1935-36 was approxi-
mately 49,000 tons of lead, 1,900,0000 z.
silver, and 37,000 tons of zinc. Net
profits was declared at £486,197. Aver-
age prices applicable, were the same as
North’s. A full year at £3O sterling for
lead and zinc, with costs up 50 p.c.,
would show a net profit of £1,750,000,
subject to increased taxation. There is
84 years’ ore in sight, at a conservative
estimate.
Zinc Corp. has over 3,000,000 tons of
ore above the 1832 ft. level, and explora-
tory work indicates that the lode main-
tains its 1 value and dimensions for at
least 600 ft. below 1832 ft. Each 100 ft.
is expected to yield 900,000 tons; so
total probable ore in sight is in the
vicinity of 9,000,000 tons. A programme
of shaft-sinking and plant development
is under way that will make the co. the
largest producer at the Barrier. Its ore
is richest in lead, has about 10 p.c. zinc
and carries much less silver than North’s
or South’s. More than a quarter of a
century of life is looked for by the co.’s
chairman.
Last week’s market valuations of the
three principal Barrier stocks were: Zinc
Corp., <£8,630,000 ; North, £12,600,000-;
South, £9,600,000. For the long-term
holder Zinc is by far the most attrac-
tive proposition. Even in the space of a
couple of years its dividends (which are
in English currency) may rival North's.
Earnings are already close up to South’s.
* :jc A *
The improbability of hydrogenation
of petrol from coal being tackled in the
Commonwealth at the present develop-
mental stage of the process has been ex-
pressed here often enough. Now Can-
berra admits it, and Mr. Stevens’s ear-
tickling utterances at Maitland some
months ago—he proposed sending opera-
tives to Billingham to be trained without
delay—are proved to be worth no more
than sceptics thought them to be. So
attention is being concentrated on
Newnes shales. Certainly claims for
this means of obtaining Australian petrol
can be proved or disproved at a fraction
of the capital cost entailed in erect-
ing a coal-hydrogenation plant.
_** * *
In Melbourne last week:
Associated Pulp and Paper rose strongly to
15s. 6d., now standing at 3s. above par. Not
so long ago this scrip was at a substantial dis-
count. Barrier cos. and Aust. Glass are in-
terested in this show.
Mt. Lyell shares fell to 50s. following the
slight setback in metals about the middle of
the week. This setback alone didn’t warrant
the drop in Lyell. It is the long-term view that
is worrying the market.
British Tobacco shares were weaker, but
even at 2s. below recent quotes immediate yield
is only 3 p.c.
Australasian Paper ords. sold at 38s. 6d.,
cum div., showing a big premium over Cumber-
land (the N.S.W. holding co.) participating
prefs. and ords. Australian Cement shares
at 325. were also still much dearer to buy than
Kandos. A table showing the relative values
of scrip in these cos. was published on this
page last week.
North Kalgurlis were sought at 19s. 2d.,
following sales at 19s. Emperors were weaker
at 19s. 4d., lifting later to 19s. 6d.
Buyers offered 435. for Yarra Falls shares
without attracting sellers.
Mt. Morgan shares, which recently had a
big rise mainly on account of the increasing
value of the mine’s copper production, re-
acted more slowly than Mt. Lyell to base-
metal fluctuations.
Felt and Textiles ords. went as high as
345. 6d.
Holeproof ords. changed hands at 28s. 6d.,
returning 6.6 p.c., and were interesting at the
price.
G. J. Coles ords. sold in fair parcels at
£5 55., and lpoked like staying round that
figure until something more definite regarding
the year’s profit and div. is known.
Holeproof’s 6.9 p.c. Yield.
It isn’t likely that any Govern-
ment will try “trade-diversion” ex-
periments with Japan again in a
hurry, and supplies of raw rayon,
which jumped in cost during the
“diversion” interlude, should be
readily available to hosiery manu-
facturers in the future. The
women’s stockings and men’s socks
trade in this country now belongs
to its own manufacturers, who
have reached a high state of effi-
ciency. Holeproof, a Victorian co.
which has the largest general
hosiery turnover in the Common-
wealth, traded for a profit of 19
p.c. on ord. capital last term (to
Dec., ’3l), and paid 10 p.c. Though
reserves make the net tangible
backing only 225. 6d. a share for
the ords., finances are in a very
comfortable state, and at 295. the
ords. are attractive buying. Im-
mediate return is 6.9 p.c., with
prospects of an increase.


The 1937
FORD V8 TRUCKS
Bragg
/*~N
MSPm
<tt«Xvw
' -Ws frfvxtns&tx^
Now 2 V-8 Truck Engines
... JProvhiiny even Greater Economy !
SELECT THE POWER TO SUIT YOUR JOB. A 3-ion truck engine developing 170 It. lbs. engine
torque is available lor hauling heavy pay-loads. This motor has a broad range of pulling ability#
at low or high road speed in top gear. 1-ton, 30-cwt. and 2-ton trucks are equipped with a truck
engine developing 152 ft. lbs. engine torque. This choice of engine power, with the range of
bodies and tyre equipment available, means that you can select a V-8 truck “made to order"
for your job
AND THESE TIME-TESTED TRUCK FEATURES ★
Mil
tjj& fcr-qfe
mm
: I
MMi
* FULL FLOATING REAR AXLE WITH
STRADDLE - MOUNTED PINION AND 4
DIFFERENTIAL GEARS.—Weight of the
truck and load is carried by roller bearings
on the axle housing. Axle shafts do not
carry weight; their sole function is to drive
the rear wheels. The straddle-mounted
pinion ensures constant mesh of the crown
wheel and pinion under all conditions.
Driving strains are more evenly distributed
by using four instead of the usual two
differential gears.
* BRAKING AREA OF 4702 SQ. INS—Brake
drums are of cast alloy iron heavily ribbed
to improve cooling and reinforce drum
against distortion.
r
m
m.
aw*
+ FULL TORQUE TUBE DRIVE.—Ford is the only truck in its price class with
this exclusive feature. All driving and braking strains are transmitted
to chassis frame through torque tube and radius rods and NOT through
springs. Sole function of springs is to cushion the load.
if 41 BALL AND ROLLER BEARlNGS.—Extensive use of ball and roller
bearings in the Ford V-8 Truck reduces frictional power loss.
if GREATER COOLING EFFICIENCY. ★ CENTRIFORCE TRUCK CLUTCH.
* HEAVY DUTY TRANSMISSION: ★ IMPROVED OIL BATH AIR CLEANER.
if IMPROVED DISTRIBUTOR. * DUAL DOWN-DRAUGHT CARBURETTOR.
. . . these and numerous other features of the 1937 Ford V-8 Truck combine
to give A New Greater Economy. Inspect this great new truck
immediately ask your Ford Dealer to arrange an "on-the-job" test with
your own loads over your own routes. Easy purchase terms.
FORD
BUY FROM YOUR LOCAL FORD DEALER
M OTO R
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA P TY. LTD. (INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA
F t 5 t 4 8 C
A V-8 TRUCK FOR EVERY HAULAGE AND TRANSPORTATION PURPOSE
Wheat remained firm at eastern Aus-
tralian ports last week, ss. 6d. being
realised for a big quantity. The Com-
mOnwealth harvest is now estimated at
around 138,000,000 bushels, about
5,000,000 bushels short of 1935-36
season’s figure, but up substantially on
preliminary forecasts. The season should
be a highly payable one to growers on
medium-to.-good areas, and export
values are already substantial.
* * * *
Following the lift in the rubber export
quota and a London opinion that the
product was a more essential war ma-
terial than some metals, a rise in raw
rubber quotes and rubber-share prices
took place in London last week. Scrip
in Koitaki, the Papuan growing co., fol-
lowed suit on Sydney ’Change, jumping
about 2s. in two days to 31s. 6d. Port
Swettenham and Victoria Malay were
also active in Melbourne. Standard
Rubber of Selangor, listed in Sydney,
has been too well held lately for much
dealing. Last sale was at 355.
After registering disappointment with
the interim div. by putting sales through
at 365. 9d. (after 395. 6d.), the share-
market again paid 395. 3d. for Myer ords.
in Melbourne last week. In 1935-36 13
p.c. was shown on ord. capital after pay-
ing the prefs., and an interim of 3 p.c.,
final of 3 p.c., plus 2\ p.c. bonus, made
the year’s distribution p.c. This year’s
interim, payable to-day (24th), shows no
increase. Still, on an 8£ p.c. basis, the
immediate yield is over 4.3 p.c., and, as
this year’s trading should show an im-
provement on last year’s business
activity in Melbourne is still on the in-
crease—if increased benefits don’t come
at the end of the term it will merely
amount to a temporary deferment,
* * * • *
Apparently “informed” buying of
Colonial Sugar shares culminated in a
smart lift to £45 10s. in the £2O shares
last week. Support has been evident for
a couple of weeks past. An increased
div. is predicted in Pitt-street, Sydney ;
the fact that a further rise in world prices
for sugar is suggested in London and the
probable effect of such a rise on the co.’s
Fiji output have also doubtless had their
effect.
Raw sugar, now in the vicinity of £6
15s. sterling a ton, dtity unpaid, at
London ports, should make the lot of
Queensland growers and millers some-
what happier, though rising freight rates
will probably offset some of the benefit.
An average of about 40 p.c. of the crop
has to be sold at world parity, plus
British preferences. In 1934-35 the
recorded export value of this surplus was
only £7 4s. (Aust.) gross; in 1935-36 £7 ss.
Those figures were achieved on a London
c.i.f. price of from £4 to £5 sterling.
Sugar was at its lowest for some time last
September ; there has been a pronounced
firming since, standing now at about 50
p.c. above the lowest figure of 1936.
Gibson and Howes, the Bingera
(Bundaberg, Q.) sugar-growing and
-milling co., balances on December 31
each year and presents accounts in May.
Any benefit from the recent rise in the
world price of raw sugar will not appear
in the co.’s 1936 accounts—it has mostly
taken place in 1937. The co. earned 10
p.c. on capital in 1935, and paid 1\ p.c.
for the year —interim 3j p.c., final 4 p.c.
Interim for 1936 was also 3£ p.c.;
whether any extras are coming when
accounts are presented will depend on
the co.’s sugar outturn from its own
plantations, the throughput on account
of farmers, and the price received for
the product —variations for 1936 com-
pared with 1935 will principally depend
on how much of the crop was sold in
the more remunerative home market.
For the 1937 financial period, however,
if the present trend of overseas prices is
maintained, there should be a decided im-
provement in earnings. The co.’s irriga-
tion scheme is considered to be an ade-
quate safeguard against droughts, which
wiped out profits in 1932.


SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Heavily-weighted horses in Winooka
(9st. 131 b.), Chatham (lOst. 41b.), Hall
Mark (9st. 81b.) and Cuddle (9st. 41b.)
won the last four Doncasters, and
another, Pamelus, is a strong favorite
for the one to be run at Randwick on
Saturday. On his performances this
season, Pamelus has earned every pound
of his 9st. 71b., and no doubt the handi-
capper would like to give him more. He
is a big horse, so the 1331 b. should not
be troublesome, but lack of Randwick
experience may tell against him. For since
he came from Queensland he has
galloped the Victorian way in all
his public appearances, except the
A.J.C. Shorts at Randwick, and in that
race he ran unplaced. Still, he is a bril-
liant horse, thoroughly seasoned and
probably a little better at a mile than
Cuddle or Hall Mark, if not quite so
good as Chatham or Winooka.
If all had gone well with her, Cuddle
would have tried to repeat her achieve-
ment of last Easter Saturday, this time
with 9st'. 81b., but she is suffering from
indigestion— too much racing perhaps.
King’s Head (9st. lib.) has run some
sterling races this season, though whether
he is within 61b. of Pamelus is question-
able ; and neither Cuddle nor Hall Mark
had to meet a representative, four-year-
old so well handicapped as Grand
Mogul (Bst. 21b.). In the past Grand
Mogul had a regrettable tendency to go
off after showing high-class form in a
particular race —for example, the C. M.
Lloyd Stakes at Flemington, in which he.
ran second to Valiant Chief, at level
weights, after having done all the bul-
locking and beaten off Garrio. If he
has been cured of this and is at his top
when saddled up, he will run a dashing
mile.
Garrio (Bst. 131 b.) was favorite last
year with Bst. 101 b. He looks in better
condition now. Beechwood (Bst. 71b.)
and Mitsui (7st. 61b.) are smart three-
year-olds. Of older horses in the seven-
stone division, Silver Rose (7st. 51b.) is
attractive, though King’s Head will be
meeting her on better terms than at War-
wick Farm.
Silver Rose was labelled an unlikely
starter on Monday, though there is no-
thing wrong with her. She was this
Page’s pick at the declaration of the
weights, and the choice will not be
altered unless she is definitely “out.” In
that case, Grand Mogul will be substi-
tuted.
Cuddle is in the Sydney Cup also —
with 9st. 61b. Lough Neagh has 9st.
Brosnan, the. owner-trainer, has said that
the old fellow will not run if there seems
any likelihood of the race knocking him
out; but Lough Neagh looks as well
as ever he did, and it should not be
forgotten that' he won the last Bris-
bane Cup with 9st. 31b., giving Spear
Prince 51b. and running the two miles in
3min. 25fsec. Spear Prince, who was
third in last year’s Sydney Cup with 7st.
131 b., has Bst. 31b. in this, and he is not
without a chance. Wotan has Bst. 121 b.,
and no one who, at first or second hand,
saw his finishing run in the Melbourne
Cup or heard a description of it will have
anything but respect for him even
though he has 151 b. more. Neverthe-
less, he would be all the better for two
or three gallops with the colors up.
Allunga is voted dangerous with Bst.
101 b. and Mananui with Bst'. Silver
Standard, second to Wotan at Fleming-
ton with 7st. 81b., now has Bst. 51b.
If El Senorita (7st. 61b.) can travel two
miles she will be hard to pass, particu-
larly if she goes to the front early. Mes-
toravon was third in the A.J.C. Winter
Plate to Young Crusader and El
Senorita, and—like Gwillian G. in her
year, 1930 —he has run away with the
Autumn Handicap (Rosehill) and the
Autumn Cup (Warwick Farm). And he
has only 7st. 31b. to carry.
As was the case two years ago, Sar-
cherie is in both races, having Bst. 101 b.
in the Doncaster and a pound less in
the Sydney Cup. In 1935 there were
dreams of winning the double with her,
but a rough passage in the Doncaster
wrecked them. In the Cup she is not
badly treated, and her record in two-
mile handicaps is good.
At the time of writing Gold Rod is still
in the St. Leger, and if he were assured
of a slow pace he could win. If he is
scratched, the improving Magpie colt
Barramul and the Victorians Peerage and
Prince Quex may provide a race as in-
teresting as Allunga and Wykeham fur-
nished last year.
All going well, Gold Rod and Pamelus
will meet in the All-Aged Plate on the
Wednesday. Each has beaten the other
in Melbourne, and their third meeting
should be highly interesting.
For minor handicaps, Bradford, Kins-
folk and Lucky Kid may be worth bear-
ing in mind.
* * * *
A very unwise policy was followed
with Gold Rod at Warwick Farm. He
was taken out of the Chipping Norton
Plate, in which he had Bst. 111 b., being
reserved for the Liverpool Handicap, in
which he had 9st. 31b. So Lough Neagh
(5 to 4) won another Chipping Norton
Plate. He chased Barramul for a mile;
and, after dropping the pacemaker turn-
ing for home, had to withstand a strong
challenge from Allunga. Allunga’s effort
was made just too late, and the old
Queensland chestnut beat him by half
a head, Barramul being four lengths
away. Lough Neagh, his owner-trainer
(Brosnan) and jockey (Shean) got a great
reception.
Prince Quex was fourth. Wotan
finished down the straight. He sweated
before the race and looked done to a
dinner when pulled up; yet he was
backed from tens to sixes.
A sterling Doncaster trial was that of
King’s Head in the Liverpool Handicap.
He was opposed to many smart sprinters,
and had six pounds more than his Don-
caster impost; moreover, in the early
stages he had to fight his way through
a cavalcade of horses. Though fortu-
nate in getting a run on the rails turn-
ing into the straight, he won with some-
thing in hand from Silver Rose and
Grand Mogul, who —as at Rosehill —
was hopelessly placed in the first half-
mile.
Gold Rod’s appearance made a market
for King’s Head, who started at eights.
The three-year-old got boxed up when
the barrier was released and did not put
much heart into his work until the race
was practically over. Silver Rose’s
second was a meritorious effort, for she
did all the chasing of the early leader,
Lolorua. Arabia found the company
too strong, but Garrio was doing well
towards the finish.
Mestoravqn had such a pull in the
weights for the Warwick Farm Autumn
Cup that it was surprising that he was
allowed to go out at 8 to 1. He donkey-
licked his opponents, as at Rosehill, and
he had 51b. more than his allotted
burden. Duncan always had him handy
on Saturday, and, taking charge half a
mile from home, Mestoravon was not
in danger of defeat from that point.
Fireman and Mananui tried to run him
down, but he easily held them off, and
left the mile and a half behind in 2min.
3(Hsec. Sir Ross was fourth and Silver
Standard next. Spear Prince went pretty
well for a mile.
Two A.J.C. committeemen, Walter
Brunton and Hunter White, won divisions
of the Fairfield Handicap with favorites:
Mangoola (5 to 2) and Byculla (3 to 1).
Mangoola galloped gamely under the
whip when challenged by Bristol and
Beau Ercil. He is a lightly-built grey
colt by Pantheon out of Chryst'al, a well-
known sprinter in her day. Byculla had
too much pace for her opponents in the
second division. Bodley Head got tired
chasing her; High Class, a sister to
Talking, was third.
Cooranga (8 to 1) outstayed the oppo-
sition in the first division of the Novice
Handicap. She is raced by Ben Richards,
who bred the small daughter of Dun-
nottar and Kooloona. Parlance and
Asilvan filled the places; each was
hailed as the winner until Cooranga put in
her claim. Cliquot was all the rage for
the second division. He turned for home
with a commanding lead, but stopped
badly over the last furlong. There.
Berkeley (20 to 1), a stable-mate of Silver
Rose, dashed away and won from Tickle
and Cliquot.
Bathurst-owned Brown Betty did the
bookies a good turn in the Cabramatta
Handicap. Starting at' 14 to 1 she led
throughout. Warrawing, a three-year-
old, owned by the Livingston brothers,
of Moree, was second, and Brazeno
third. The Raider was favorite. He was
forced to cover a lot of extra ground and
tired in the run home.
* * * *
Demotic (Burrabadeen-Competence)
squeezed home by a head from Lilirene
in the Moonee Ponds Handicap at
Moonee Valley, and Keeping Watch was
half a head farther off. Third horse was
a 7-to-4 favorite, double those odds
being obtainable about Demotic, despite
his excellent Australian Cup display.
Reason for Keeping Watch being at
such a short price was the fact that he
had registered four wins and a second
in his previous five starts, going out
favorite on each occasion. A four-year-
old by The Night Patrol, this gelding
has come good in striking fashion as a
galloper. Steve Murphy backed Keeping
Watch for a pot of money in a hurdle
race at Randwick last Easter, but he fell.
If Elliot had secured a run on the rails
as early as he expected, Keeping Watch
may have won. Lilirene, whose close
second was a surprise, was formerly
owned by Dr. Jean Rountree, a sister
of Bob Lewis, the jockey. This mare is
the best of the progeny of Trivalve, on
whom Lewis landed the Melbourne Cup
of 1927. Demotic belongs to L.
(“Dutchie”) Kennedy, who has few
superiors as a billiard player among Vic-
torian Club members.
Le Baron, winner of three races off
the reel at the Victorian autumn meet-
ing, was asked to concede Sweet Mem-
ories 31b. in the Hollymount Handicap.
However, his jockey claimed 71b. appren-
tice allowance, and the filly thus was re-
quired to give him 41b. Nevertheless,
punters made Sweet Memories an even-
money favorite, wisely remembering the
brilliance with which she had annexed
the Maribyrnong Plate.
Class told. Le Baron led on sufferance
until the straight was entered. Harold
Skidmore then allowed Sweet Memories
to extend herself, and she made Le Baron
look like a hack. The winning margin
of three lengths could have been greater.
Campaspe, recently acquired by “Horrie”
Leek at the auction of Sol Green’s racing
stud, was a poor third, narrowly defeat-
ing Column for the position. Column,
a Doric colt belonging to W. Burke,
started at 50 to 1. He ought to prove
useful.
The race for maiden juveniles was dis-
posed of in two divisions. First went to
Phildean, a Parenthesis filly in the stable
of Steve Murphy. She shared favoritism
with Corra (Drake-Moulinet) and beat
that rival pointless. Both Phildean and
Corra were, bred by “S. A. Rawdon,” who
reserved Corra for his own racing pur-
poses, and sent the other youngster into
the sale-ring.
Winoobra, a filly by Cimbrian (half-
brother to Heroic), was deposed from
favoritism in the second division by Ply-
mouth Hoe, whose diminutive brother
Watchful had performed very success-
fully in Melbourne. Coming at the righr
end, Plymouth Hoe vanquished Winoo-
bra by nearly a length. Winner is owned
by J. O’Dwyer, whose nephew trains
Plymouth Hoe.
There was a nasty accident in
Winoobra’s race. At the half-way stage
four horses fell. J. O’Brien, rider of
Maldevon, and A. Ayres, who had the
mount on Judith, had to be removed to
hospital. O’Brien was suffering from
fractured ribs and Ayres from a contused
back and shock. Moonee Valley is an
unlucky course for O’Brien. Three years
ago he was badly smashed when Palphar
crashed into the running rail at the back
of the track.
Only four of 10 competitors in the
Rothwell Steeplechase completed the
course. Victims included the 3-to-l favo-
rite, Elegance, and Dilpurra, second in
demand at 9 to 2. Richmond Tiger, back
to his best form, took charge seven fur-
longs from home, and reached the judge
at a canter, six lengths in advance of
Montargis, with Blackmill 20 lengths
farther away. Solidly supported at 5 to 1,
winner was ridden by W. Cutler, who is
new to the cross-country game and has
copied the dashing methods of Alick Ful-
larton.
Favorite for the Pakenham Gold Brace-
let on March 11, Karman (Manfred-
Bettina) missed a place ; the race was
won by Poldean. Karman romped home
in the Knoll Handicap at the Valley,
while Poldean finished a long last; a
stable plunge brought old Aitchengee
to the head of the quotes. He accom-
panied Karman into the straight, but
tired and surrendered second place to
Elyse Farndon, for whom an early suc-
cess may be predicted.
Half-heads separated the place-getters
in the Sherwood High weight Handicap,
Conchita (12 to 1) leading Derring Do
(20 to 1) and Banquet (11-to-4 favorite)
past the post. Banquet extricated him-
self from the ruck far too late, and was
a good thing beaten. Winner had the
services of Elliot, who is to ride Pamelus
in the Doncaster. Earlier in the after-
noon Elliot scored on Phildean.
The N S.W. Surf Life Saving Associa-
tion had 24 tearps (480 men) in the
“march past” at its Bondi carnival. The
chief event, the Rescue and Resuscitation
premiership, went to Manly. The boat-
races, senior and junior, were carried
off by country clubs, Mona Vale and
Cowes Beach.
* * * *
“Tackier”: The latest sporting organi-
sation to complain of the poaching of
players by wealthy clubs is the Lanca-
shire Cricket League, in which so many
Australians have figured. Accrington,
one of the leading clubs, finds that
extra-wealthy combines like Nelson are
taking their best' talent as soon as it
develops. A suggestion is adoption of
the Northern Union football rule
whereby the maximum weekly wage of
any player shall not exceed £B. Inci-
dentally, a new system of playing
matches —the League games are played
on Saturday only—has already been suc-
cessfully tried by Worsley club and may
become general. By this the first' bat-
ting side must declare at 140 runs. It
might be worth trying in wider cricket
fields than Lancashire League.
* * * *
“Xo”: Owen Bridle, the Vic. Rugby
Union man who played so well in South
Africa with the 1933 Wallabies, and who
has since been a regular Australian
breakaway, has changed over to Aus-
tralian Rules and is training with Foots-
cray. In Union Bridle was a great for-
ward because he was fast, heavy and
hard to tackle; and his handling was
always safe. If he makes a success of
Aus. Rules it will be on merits that were
comparatively unimportant in Rugby,
apart from his handling. Vic. Union men
have been wishing him well —but they
will miss him against the Springboks in
June.
{Continued on page 30.)
FOR RANDWICK.
St. Leger: Barramul; next,
Prince Quex.
Doncaster: Silver Rose, 1 ;
Grand Mogul, 2; Pamelus, 3. Best
outsider, Garrio.
Sires’ Produce Stakes: Caesar;
next, Hua.
Autumn Plate: Allunga; next,
Lough Neagh.
Vaucluse Handicap: Pavarti;
next, Mohican.
Sydney Cup: Mestoravon, 1 ; El
Senorita, 2; Allunga, 3. Best out-
sider, Fireman.
La Perouse Handicap: Silver
Rose; next, Moonray.
Biraganbil Handicap: Bradford ;
next, Kinsfolk.
FOR VICTORIA PARK.
Flying Handicap: Pavarti; next,
Brown Betty.
Welter : Patusan; next, Mr.
Rivoli.
V.P. Handicap: Panrose; next,
Linklet.
FOR WILLIAMSTOWN.
Easter Stakes: Keeping Watch ;
next, Donaster.
Point Cook Trial: Elyse Farn-
don.
Seaside Handicap: Ogwell; next,
Phenomenon.
Easter Cup: Demotic; next,
Mutable.


II
WOLFES
ABMOC
i SCHIEDAM
mm
if*
- : .
iigiwgggSwii:
:
i
■
m.
m
mm
■y»»>
: : -
*
m
mmim
mm
: X
■
wm
mmmm
m
m
mm
■m-
ymm&msm
mmmmrnmmm
§■■
m
BiMimi
J-riS'S
mm.
mi
ws6wm&m
liiii
®S&
Si
mm
mmmm
m
mm
m
if .T™ '
fm
WM
m
mm
m
m
mm.
mm
r m
Wmm
\
£BBsB»?¥%s
msm®.
®ss
1
: ■:
:' x .,:'; '..
wm
m
m;
mm
mim
wmm
mm
iw:mm
_w.s.ioB F.P.
the healthy, hard-working people of Holland,
womenfolk as well as men know the tonic value of a daily
glass of Schnapps. Thousands of Australians, too, have learned
the same simple rule of health, and for over eighty years the
Schnapps they have preferred is WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS,
the purest of all gin spirits.
Wolfe’s Schnapps comes direct from Holland to Australia. It
is distilled to-day to the same recipe invented by Udolpho Wolfe
300 years ago. Real Italian juniper berries are used in its
distillation, and it is their splendid diuretic properties that so
largely contribute to the health-promoting goodness of Wolfe’s
Schnapps. Wolfe’s Schnapps tones the kidneys, cools and
purifies the blood stream and is especially valuable to women
and men of middle-age.
Try the small bottle; it contains a week’s supply—enough to
prove to you the wisdom of the famous Wolfe’s Schnapps
slogan, “One a day for your Health’s Sake!”
WOLFES SCHNAPPS


I
null
The first Quadruple-acting- Tyre Pump, to be made —the Renrut
“Quad” —surpasses all attempts at imitation. Its robust design,
the meticulous accuracy in manufacture, the fine quality of
materials used —these mean years more of reliable and satisfac-
tory service. The “supercharger” action pumps more air into
the tyre at each stroke—halves inflation time and makes the
job far easier.
Fitted with accurate Pressure gauge. Price 65/-
Less Gauge. Price 60/-
RENRUT
««
QUAD
HAND PUMP
Factory Representative:
.JOHN ARNOLD, F.O.' Box 71, Melbourne, Australia.
Manufacturers:
WILLIAM TURNER & PRO., LTD., Evfe WoikS, Sheffield, 1, England.
••SILVER
EDGE”
TRADE O MARK REGISTERED
THE RAYBESTOS CO.
BRAKE
LINING
MOTORISTS! SAVE MONEY!
THERE is never any true economy in cheap articles; particularly
does this apply to your motor-vehicle’s brakes.
Your safety and the safety of pedestrians depend upon the
reliability of your brakes.
For over twenty years “RAYBESTOS” BRAKE LININGS have
maintained a name for quality, building up a reputation for
consistency of product unrivalled by any other firm. It will prove
cheaper in the long run if you ask for your brakes to be relined
with “RAYBESTOS.”
RA YBESTOS-BELACO LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND .
Factory Rep.: JOHN ARNOLD, G.P.O. Box 71, MELBOURNE, VIC.
Ins and Outs
“Jolimont”: Victoria’s sixteenth Shef-
field Shield win in Adelaide brings the
Cabbage Garden closer to Ma, which
has 20. South Australia has taken the
trophy five, times; Queensland’s card is
yet to be marked. The Victorian bat-
ting was particularly strong, eight men
averaging over 30. Hassett should go
near catching a berth for England next
season. He scored 449 runs and aver-
aged 74.83.
* * * *
“Spinner”: His nine wickets in Vic-
toria’s second innings at Adelaide is
probably a Dead Sea apple in McCor-
mick’s mouth, the one more needed to
put him among the immortals being
rapped from him by the unfeeling
Sievers. The only man to take the 10
in a Sheffield game is Wall, of S.A., who
did it against N.S.W. in Sydney in the
1932-33 season. Travers, of South Aus-
tralia took 9 for 30 against Victoria in
1900-01, so McCormick has a mate.
* * * #
“Glenelg”: Grimmett took 30 wickets
in what may be his last Sheffield season,
and raised his total in the series to 407.
No other Australian bowler can come
near his figures, Ironmonger’s 215 for
Victoria being next best. Grimmett’s
average for the whole bag is 25.82, and
his consistency is shown by the fact that
for the past season it is almost the same,
25.16. With the bat Clarrie has scored
1761 in Shield games. In Tests with
England, up to the end of last season,
he had taken 106 wickets for 32.44 each.
* * * *
“J 2”: Now that the English XI has
moved homeward it is pleasant to think
that our own lads,
as well as the visi-
tors, can have a
good long spell to
recover from casual-
ties and overwork.
I’m not going to
suggest that the
modern first - class
cricketer has become
a weakling, but 1
can’t help wonder-
ing how he would
have faced the hard-
ships of other days.
There were only 11
in the first Austra-
lian in t e rnational
side in 1877. The
first match was at
Brisbane ; thence
they went to Too-
woomba, Newcastle,
Maitland, Sydney,
Melbourne, Inver-
cargill (M.L.), Dun-
edin, Oamaru,
Christchurch, Well-
ington, Napier,
Auckland and returned to play two more
matches in Australia. And all this was
merely the preliminary to raise the dough
for the English tour. The men travelled
in a long series of rushes by trains,
coaches and steamers, and, despite the
fact that all their cricketing gear (which
was in one bag) had to be lugged about
by a couple of players in turn, nobody
had a sore finger or had to stand down
on account of a strained epiglottis.
* * * *
“Gabba”: Tallon, the Queensland
batsman-’keeper, came out in a new light
the other day. In a grade match
Northern Suburbs were hoisting a big
score when Tallon swapped the pads for
the ball. In four overs he took four
wickets for 14 runs, tossing up slow leg-
breaks with an occasional wrong ’un.
* * * *
“Aigburth”: Dead in England at 60,
Walter Brearley, one of the best of Eng-
lish amateur fast bowlers in the golden
age of the 1900’s, when pace in a bowler
was not objected to even if he occa-
sionally whanged a batsman on the ear.
Brearley was accurate for all his great
pace, but business took him out of the
game early, though he was a Lancashire
standby from 1902 to 1911, once taking
17 wickets in a match against Somerset.
He figured in three Tests against Aus-
tralia, all in England, taking 17 wickets
for 20.88 each. As a bat he was a stand-
ing joke. He had a permanent bet when
playing at Old Trafford that he would be
in and out in two minutes. He used to
jump the fence padless and gloveless,
refuse centre and swipe madly at the ball.
Invariably out at once, he ran full speed
to the pavilion, jumped the fence again
and collected the tankard of ale that was
always the stake.
* * * *
“Bramall Lane”: Prophets have been
tipping that the selectors who sent the
innocent Allen expedition to face the
cunning and unscrupulous Australians
would be thrown into limbo this season,
but the Old Firm—Warner, Higson and
Perrin—will again be picking ’em.
* Sc * *
“Aigburth”: The English Board of
Control has approved the programme for
the Australians in England next season.
A departure is a match between Aus-
tralia and the Rest of England on May
26—obviously a trial of those not con-
sidered sure of a Test ticket. Maoriland
will play under the same conditions as
Australian teams in future; and the
board urges all connected with the game
to do away with the often dubious ap-
“Cricket’s a funny game, old boy. You’re out leg-before-wicket.”
peal against the light. Australia should
lose no time in following suit.
* * * *
“Erka”: V. M. Merchant, chosen by
Wis den as one of the five cricketers of
the year, is the fifth Indian so honored
—Ranjitsinhji, Duleepsinhji, Pataudi and
C. K. Nayudu the others. In the All-
Indian team’s tour of England last year
Merchant headed the batting averages
and scored most runs, 1725, including a
century in the second Test. Headley
(West Indies) is the only cullud cricketer
to grace Wisden’s portrait gallery.
Footbrawl
“Old Q.”: Queensland Union men are
in a ferment over the rumor that Doug
McLean, one of the finest wingers to
have played for Queensland and Aus-
tralia, has gone over to the League, hav-
ing been assured of selection in the team
for England this season. McLean, who
hotly denies the charge, has played Union
against the All-Blacks and against Eng-
lish and South African sides.
“Five Ways”: Some of the wiseacres
who have been discussing the alleged
secession of McLean from the Union pro-
fess to have the whole procedure mapped
out. According to them, McLean will
play for Australia with the R.U. against
the Springboks on June 19 and 26, and
will then join the League team for Eng-
land. which is to be selected on the night
of the 26th. Apart from the fact that
McLean is not the sort to give counten-
ance to such a ramp as that, the R.U.
will see to it that his intentions are de-
clared in good time.
sjc $
“Tenakoe”: In spite of dismal past
experience and the wretched showing of
M.L. teams against the last Rugby
League side from Australia, there is a
strong move in Auckland to get a team
over to Australia next season. The
scheme will meet with strong opposition
from Australian Leaguers, though it may
be backed in despair of getting any
other attraction than quadrennial visits
from the Englishmen.
“Cash Amateur”: N.S.W. Rugby
Union's policy of restoring to its ranks
players who, after being in professional
football, beg to be forgiven has had
another showing up in Sydney. One
K. Murray last year played with
Randwick Union team ; the year before
he had played League with St. George ;
now he is back again with the profes-
sionals. The Union has more high-class
recruits every season from the G.P.S.
than its clubs can find room for, and
there appears to be no reason for clog-
ging the already congested ranks by re-
admitting professionals whenever they
care to throw in an application.
*■#*'.*
• “Korero”: Dave Cowper, well-known
to N.S.W. Rugby Union, has joined R.
Fraser Dodds and F. W. Russell as a
Vic. selector. Cowper played for
N.S.W. both as a centre and a wing
and has captained Vic. on numerous
occasions; he skippered the Wallabies
in one S’African Test in 1933, and has
also toured Maoriland. Dodds and
Russell are both ex-Maorilanders, Dodds
hailing from Invercargill and Russell
from Auckland.
* * * *
“Stand Off”: The annual meeting of
the N.S.W. Rugby Union once more de-
vised a plan for dealing with reinstate-
ment of professionals. A committee of
three is in future to deal with applica-
tions. It is pretty certain the plan will
prove as ineffective as previous ones.
Some years ago the Union did the only
thing which could have settled the prob-
lem: fixed a date after which no rene-
gade could hope to return to the fold
at any price. This was never acted on,
club influence in favor of ex-members
being too strong.
An ugly feature of the meeting was the
inclination of a section to jettison inter-
state matches. It is the real old Ma State
attitude which has made N.S.W. so no-
torious in everything from politics to
sport, and if it is carried out it will mean
the end of the Rugby Union game in
Australia.
* * * *
“Groper”: If the N.S.W. Rugby Union
is passing Westralia £3O for the latter’s
Victorian visit, as “96-97” (B. 3/ 3 / ’37)
declares, we have yet to hear of it in the
West. The Western Union asked for that
sum as a help towards financing school
football, but the Sydney crowd, while
giving plenty of blessings, refused the
handout.
Despite the fact that the Westralian
Union dropped £5O on the visit of the
South Australian team to Perth last year,
it will start this season with £4O in the
bag, compared with £2 in 1936.
# * * *
“Old Q.”: A taste of old times hung
about a statement at the N.S.W.R.U.
annual meeting that employers are dis-
couraging their employees playing Rugby
because of the liability to injury. Years
ago in Queensland the same spirit was
abroad, the banks being the chief offen-
ders. Some of these absolutely forbade
their employees to play on pain of dis-
missal, with the result that “A. N. Other”
and similar celebrities figured in practi-
cally every team in the Union.
* * * *
The N.S.W. Rugby League reported
a satisfactory season. Receipts were
£17,000, including profit on the Eng-
lishmen’s tour. Grants to clubs totalled
£5OO, and the year’s profit was £930. Over
£lOOO was paid by the detention commit-
tee to 36 players. School teams increased
from 190 to 237. For once in a way
outside interests received recognition, a
Newcastle delegate being appointed to
the State selection committee. The
season opens on April 17.
* * * *
“Scrum”: English Rugby Leaguers
propose altering the rules to allow the
scrum-half to “put” the ball in the scrum
instead of rolling or throwing it in. It
would mean massacre for the unhappy
half, who would have the forearms
booted off him in five minutes. At a
League meeting in Sydney one expert
ventured the opinion that there was no
danger, since the rules forbade the lift-
ing of feet in the scrum, but a State
half testified that last season a Queens-
land front-row forward raked him along
the side of the face when he was putting
the ball in, though he was standing a
yard from the scrum.
* * * *
“Cash Amateur”: A season or so ago,
Hey, a Sydney League footballer of note,
was offered a job by one of the English
professional clubs. He was persuaded to
stay in Australia, and a business was
found for him in Toowoomba. Now
he has shaken the red dust of the Downs
city off his hooves and is taking on a
job at Ipswich. Hey’s explanation is


m
m
CRUISES
l m
'.V-
m
mm?
'
'
x5>
W.
1937
WINTER CRUISES
EARLY JUNE:
ORONSAY . .. PAPUA
EARLY JULY:
ORAM A . . . FIJI
LATE JULY:
ORFORD ... FIJI
V50
LATE AUGUST:
OTRANTO . . . RABAUL
ORIENT STEAM NAVIGATI ON CO. LTD., INCORPORATED IN,, ENGLAND
Be well advised on Your
Shooting Problems by an
Acknowledged Expert!
LIONEL BIBBY, famous Rifle and Revolver
Shot and recognised authority on Firearms
and Ballistics, is attached to Mick Simmons’
Shooting Department staff. Write him for
his expert advice on any matter pertaining
to firearms and shooting.
The New
COOEY
RIFLES
ftflade Within the Empire
Every Model thoroughly tested for
Safety, Accuracy and Reliability!
COOEY .22 CALIBRE—BoIt action, for
short, long, or long-rifle cartridges,
beautifully finished walnut stock with
pistol grip. Steel putt plate. Adjust-
able rear sight and silver head front
sight. Safety action.
A HEAL BIFLE AT A MODERATE
PRICE.
Length overall, 41 inches,
inches. Weight, 4-jlb.
Price
Barrel, 24
37/6
(Postage, 2/-; Other Stales, 3/6.)
COOEY “MOHAWK”—.22 calibre, single
shot, chambered for short, long or long-
rifle cartridges. THE LONGEST
BARREL .22 CALIBRE RIFLE ON
TI-IE MARKET TO-DAY. Barrel 2T
inches long, with crowned arid
polished muzzle. Genuine walnut
stock and pistol grip. Formed steel
con vexed butt plate. Elevating rear
sight and silver bead front sight, both
sights in dovetail slot. Overall
length, 434 inches. Weight, 61b. A
RIFLE THAT DEFIES ALL COM-
PETITION. SUPERB /in /
QUALITY. Price ‘iU/-
(Postage, 2/-; Other States, 3/6.)
COOEY REPEATER—. 22 Calibre,
bolt action, holds 10 long or 12
short cartridges. Double safety
feature's. Smooth action. Beauti-
fully finished walnut stock, pistol
grip and steel butt plate. Adjust-
able rear sight and bead front
sight. Length overall, 41 inches.
Barrel, 24 inches. Weight,
4211).
Price
72/6
(Carriage Paid.)
COOEY MODEL 33 RE-
PEATER—. 22 calibre Trom-
bone action Repeating Rifle,
with loading capacity of 14
short or 10 long-rifle cartridges.
ķ
Tubular magazine. Barrel 24in. Walnut
stock and fore-end. Elevating rear sight and
dovetail slot. Weight, s£lb. Price.. Qfl/_
(Carriage Paid.) >
Two High-grade
SHOT GUNS
No. 3— HOLLIS’ “THE KEEIABEE”
D.8.8.E. GUN, 12G., top lever, bar action,
32in. steel barrels, both choke, rebounding
locks, cross bolt, snap fore-end, half-pistol
grip, walnut stock. i- n r* /
Price £l5/15/-
Carriage Paid.
No. 9—CASHMORE D.8.8.E. GUN, 12G.,
solid bar action, 32in. steel barrels, left
choke, extension rib, cross bolt, D. and E.
fore-end pistol grip, walnut ntAitexl
stock; weight, about 71b £l4/ IU/-
Carriage Paid.
No. 15—MIDLAND GUN CO. “SPECIAE”
D.8.8.G. HAMMER GUN, 12G., top lever,
32in. barrels, right modified, left full, bar
locks, solid strikers, matted rib, nitro-proof,
pistol grip, cross bolt; chambered for 2Jin.
cartridges; weight, about riA/1n ,
7flb £IU/IU/-
(Carriage Paid.)
The New "LIGHTNING"
rreaa oogcovkiocog
QH3S
Super Charge
12-Gauge Cartridges,
21/- per 100.
21in. shell with a
2fin. load!
\
Game results are
assured with
. “Lightning.”
SHOOTING CATALOGUE.
Write for copy. Post Free.
MICK SIMMONS
LTD.,
HAY'MARKET. SYDNEY, & All Branches.
that he had to close his business owing
to unforeseen circumstances. The Too-
woomba League, which paid £lOO for
Hey’s retention, now, talks of tackling
Queensland League for the brass.
Nineteenth Hole
“Divot Digger”: Hagen—plumper, but
apparently just as skilful as when he was
here last—was playing exhibition
matches (weather permitting) in and
about Sydney last week. The youngster
confided to a Sydney interviewer that
his ambition is to win the British open
championship for the fifth time before
retiring from the big stuff. As he and
Kirkwood will be playing continuously
after leaving Australia, and as Walter
will have the Ryder Cup contest to put
a polish on his game just before the
championship, he shouldn’t fail through
lack of practice.
* * * *
“Hoylake”: There has been something
of a fuss in British golf over the em-
ployment of “private caddies.” Objectors
have asked that private retainers be
banned and only boys employed by the
clubs allowed to carry. It is argued that
caddying is the introduction to a profes-
sional career in golf, and that the private
system works against youngsters desiring
to earn a whole-time living at the game.
Topnotchers like Cotton and Padgham
insist that their private caddies are essen-
tial to their game, and swear they will
carry their own bags sooner than have
casual nippers foisted on them by caddie-
masters. St. Andrews has passed the
buck to the clubs with the comment that
the affair is their funeral.
* =H * #
Seen at Nock and Kirby’s, Sydney, a
slow-motion film showing pro. Ted
Bolger demonstrating the use of driver,
brassey and all the irons. The film is
run off at a speed eight times less than
the actual stroke, and shows clearly the
use of the clubs. Designed for the be-
ginner, it’s to be used to help Bolger with
his pupils; it deserves to be sent on tour
round the clubhouses, where it could be
fitted up with a corner at the nineteenth.
Racquet and Bawl
“Top Spin”: Our Davis Cup team
left Sydney at the week-end for the
U.S.A. All have been training and
report fit. Quist made a good start
by chewing up all opposition in the
South Australian championships. Singles,
doubles with Turnbull, and mixed
doubles with Nancy Wynne all came his
way.
* * * *
“Rev. Knucklebone”: As usual, some
delegates to the annual meeting of the
N.S.W.L.T.A. attacked the Australian
body. The cockroach in the soup is
that in the distribution of profits large
and small States share alike, and Ma
thinks the handout ought to be on a
population basis. Ma may be overlook-
ing that in event of a heavy loss she
would have, to carry the biggest baby if
her dream came true.
Miscellaneous
“Spike”: H. G. Alderson, manager of
the last Olympic team, says that if Aus-
tralian athletes are to do any good
against overseas rivals they must get
larger cash allowances —£2 or more
weekly instead of the present ss. Once
that is started, amateurism will vanish
in a night; and a good thing, too, per-
haps, since to-day it is often merely a
cloak. Yet writer can recall a not-so-
long-ago day when amateur athletes
got no allowances whatever, but only
travelling and housing expenses. Under
those conditions, even on long tours last-
ing weeks, the teams got a lot of fun
out of life.
* * * *
“Blade”: Sydney ran away from the
opposition in the lightweight State cham-
pion eights. The time, lOmin. 23 4-ssec.
for the two miles, is a record for the
race, which Sydney has now won four
successive times —another record. The
Mercantile club eight from Melbourne
was outclassed, both Leichhardt and Bal-
main, the other competitors, giving it
the go-by.
* * * *
“Blade”: Though there are two re-
gattas to go Mosman cannot be beaten
for the N.S.W. rowing premiership, and
Haberfield is home and dried for the
junior title. Mosman is out by itself
with 196 points, then coming North
Shore (113) and Sydney (99). The clos-
ing regattas are St. Ignatius on April 10
and Uni., on the Parramatta, on April 17..
* * * *
“Whizz”: Malcolm Campbell, having
given up attempts on the car speed
record, is thinking of having a try at the
motor-boat figures. “Gar” Wood, the.
Yankee expert, holds the record at
present, 124.8 m.p.h. Campbell is build-
ing a one-man high-speed boat with a
single engine of 1000 h.p. If the attempt,
probably to be made on Loch Lomond,
is successful, Campbell will challenge for
the international trophy at present held
by Yankeeland. It may comfort him to
reflect that' Segrave, after scoring several
land records, lost his life attempting the
speedboat one.
* * * *
“Buzz”: Folk are getting sick of speed
events for motor vehicles on public high-
ways in Britain. The famous cycling
contests in the Isle of Man have been
told to find a new venue, and now Down
County Council has refused permission
for the annual Tourist Trophy race for
cars on the Ards circuit, near Belfast.
Last year eight spectators were killed
and many injured, and the casualty list
before that among motormen and spec-
tators was heavy. The organisers say
the race will be run on the fixed
date —September 4 —and are hunting a
new course.


PENS
Every point
guaranteed —
do not experiment with imitations.
a BRANDAUER A CO. Ltd. BIRMINGHAM. ENG
The Union Trustee Company of Australia, Ltd.
2 O’CONNELL STREET - SYDNEY
ACTS AS
Executor, Trustee, Administrator, Attorney, Etc.
(Established 1885.)
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE AND TOWNSVILLE.
Amongst the advantages derived:—
The Company never dies, never leaves the State, and is always available.
ABSOLUTE SECURITY, EXPERT & ECONOMICAL SERVICE.
N.S.W. DIRECTORS:
F. E. Bryant (Chairman); Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, K.8.E., M.L.C. (Vice-Chairman);
Sir Graham Waddell, K.8.E.; James Kidd, W. H. Mackay, J. Beresford Grant,
Colin A. Sinclair. Manager: J. G. H. Shipway.
(I WRITE OR CALL FOR FREE EXPLANATORY BOOKLET .)
Patent.
IMPROVEMENTS IN HIGH-TENSION
FUSE BLOCKS.
THE proprietors of Commonwealth Patent No.
15574/33 are prepared to negotiate for the
sale of their rights in the above or for the
granting of a license to make, use and vend the
invention within the Commonwealth of Aus-
tralia. Particulars obtainable from Griffith,
Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Sydney.
Notice.
Desert Mounted Corps.
THE Annual Dinner of officers who served
in the above will take place in London on
June 21, 1937. Will any A.L.H. who served
with the above, and who will be in London
at that time, kindly communicate with the
Honorary Secretary, Colonel C. B. Broome,
3 St. Helen’s Place, London, E.C.3?
SHADOW
SHOWS
“The Plainsman.”
WILD BILL HICKOK, Gary Cooper
CALAMITY JANE .... Jean Arthur
BUFFALO BILL CODY, James Ellison
GUN-RUNNING DASTARD,
Charles Bickford
JACKAL Porter Hall
This film, a Cecil de Mille production,
brings back happy memories of a Wild
West show that toured Australasia in
the ’nineties. It allegedly included among
its attractions both Wild and Buffalo
Lena Powell in “Born to Dance,” at
Sydney St. James.
Bills, though Mr. Hickok had died with
his boots on many years before, and
Colonel Cody was gracefully growing
old in California. The Bills presented by
Mr. de Mille are much more worthy of
credence, particularly Cooper’s version
of Hickok, a laconic, fatalistic fellow,
utterly unsentimental. Ellison’s Buffalo
Bill looks a bit callow, but the rest of
the casting, white, red and brindle, is
excellent.
The story brings within its scope Cus-
ter’s last stand and a great deal of other
fighting between Uncle Sam’s cavalry
and the Cheyennes. Hickok, loved by
a mannish hobbledehoy, Calamity Jane,
gets on the trail of an organisation that
is selling rifles to the Indians. He wipes
out its principal agent and hands his
assistants over to the law, but in the
hour of triumph is shot in the back by
a cowardly little runt in cahoots with the
gun-runners.
Before that happens Calamity Jane, to
save Hickok from torture at the hands
of Indians, tells the whereabouts of an
ammunition convoy (a mortal sin in the
eyes of Hickok), but retrieves herself by
riding to Custer and getting reinforce-
ments. Later, Hickok, having shot three
soldiers who were in the pay of the gun-
runners, and who attempted to assassi-
nate him, is trailed by Buffalo Bill, who
has orders to arrest him, but finds, on
catching up with his quarry, that there
are more urgent matters to attend to.
The whole business is admirably staged
—Mississippi steamboats, pioneer West-
ern townships, hundreds of soldiers,
thousands of Indians, costumes in every
instance as true to period as well-in-
formed intelligence can make them.
Miss Arthur has never been seen to
better advantage ; Cooper, too, is at his
excellent best, and Bickford’s fine genius
for thoroughpaced villainy gets full
scope. Screening time is about an hour
and threequarters, but doesn’t seem any-
thing like that long. At Sydney Prince
Edward.
“She’s Dangerous.”
VICIOUS KILLER .... Cesar Romero
SLEUTH Tala Birell
DOCTOR Walter Pidgeon
Some good all-round acting, a plot
which, though it smacks of melodrama,
has an effective snap finish, and good
directing make this film attractive enter-
tainment.
A gangster of the champagne-and-tails
variety, who has brought off a coup in
bonds, is tricked by a clever ruse into
partnering with a girl whom he thinks
is a fellow-crook. He goes goofy over
her, and when he discovers she is trail-
ing him on behalf of a private detective
he bumps the sleuth off, takes the girl
and dashes for the Canadian border.
Their ’plane crashes, and they are cared
for by a holidaying doctor in his back-
woods hut. Girl and medico fall in love,
while the killer, convalescing from in-
juries, jealously gnashes his teeth. Girl
tells all to doctor, who gets cops just in
time to prevent killer doing another bolt
with girl. Gangster and girl are bracketed
in murder trial, both being sentenced
to the chair. Rather than clear her, the
killer prefers to take her with him to
the grave. A neat piece of strategy robs
him of his r-r-revenge.
Cesar Romero, about the most sinis-
ter and suavely cold-blooded villain on
the screen, excels himself. Walter Pid-
geon acts easily and intelligently. Tala
Birell isn’t as strong as she ought to be
in the romantic sequences, but she revels
in action. Walter Brennan gives a choice
character study of a country hick. At
Sydney Capitol.
“The Great O’Malley.”
OIRISH COP Pat O’Brien
SCHOOLMARM Ann Sheriden
WAGE-PLUG .... Humphrey Bogart
CRIPPLED CHILD .... Sybil Jason
Skilfully mixed with this film is some
propaganda against the regulation-
obsessed, officious type of policeman
The cop conductor in “Born to Dance.”
who antagonises the Force’s best friend
—the law-abiding citizen.
James Aloysius O’Malley revels in
regulation-quoting, and almost gets
writer’s cramp booking all and sundry—
except real criminals. Through delay
caused by O’M.’s hectoring, a young mar-
ried man going to his first job in years
misses it, desperately turns temporary
criminal and is gaoled. Fed up with
O’M. (he’s the efficient type that can’t
be sacked), his boss sidetracks him on to
shepherding schoolchildren across inter-
sections. There a little crippled girl gets
his sympathy, and his reformation starts.
When he finds' she is the daughter of the
chap in gaol he sets a specialist to work
on her leg, and gets the father released
on parole and fixed in a job, all on the
quiet.
Out of clink and confronted again by
O’Malley, who he thinks is hounding
him and breaking up his home, dis-
Buddy Ebsen in “Born to Dance.”
traught fellow plugs cop, remorsefully
confessing when he finds out the truth.
Cop stoutly maintains it was an acci-
dent, there’s forgiveness all round, and
Cupid draws a bead on cop and admir-
ing schoolmarm.
Pat O’Brien has a role which fits him
like a glove. Humphrey Bogart is im-
pressive as the victim of circumstances.
Sybil Jason is a delightfully natural six-
year-old with an appealing lisp. At
Sydney Capitol.
“Chick.”
COLLEGE PORTER .. Sydney Howard
The summit of Mr. Howard’s screen
humor is the wearing of a hat two sizes
too small. In the fantasia under review
he is Chick Beane, a semi-imbecilic col-
lege servant who suddenly receives
notice that he has become Earl of Pelver,
with a lot of land but no income. Crooks
tell him his land is oil-bearing (rural
England is, of course, notoriously petrol-
iferous) and induce him to become chair-
man of directors of a co. to develop this
wealth. Believing it his duty to study
oil, Chick returns to the college as a
freshman. Students invade his room pre-
tending to be sweeps and paperhangers,
and cover the poor wretch, too witless
to get out of the way, with soot and
paste. But the crooks are as mentally de-
fective as their victim. Their attempt to
fly to foreign parts with the co.’s funds
is easily foiled, and it is then discovered
that, though the Pelver estate contains
no oil, it has a spring of mineral water
worth £lOO,OOO. Coincidently with this
good news Chick learns that his acces-
sion to an earldom was an error. The
grateful shareholders of his co. buy him
a country pub, to which he retires. At
Sydney Lyceum.
“His Lordship.”
LORD DUNCASTER, FOREIGN
SECRETARY George Arliss
HIS TWIN BROTHER .. George Arliss
ORIENTAL DASTARDS,
A. Jeayes and L. Anderson
YOUNG EMIR John Ford
The titled brother is a pompous ass;
his twin, not nearly so starchy, has
lived 10 years in a near-East kingdom
of Turkish-Arab-Egyptian-Indian flavor.
The ruler of this kingdom is assassinated
by his two most trusted sheiks, an Eng-
lishman is accused of the crime, and the
less-starchy Arliss, befriending him,
learns the true facts of the murder. The
assassins leave for England to complete
their job by claiming heavy damages
from Britain and bumping off the young
Emir, who is at Eton or Harrow or some-
thing like that. The Foreign Secretary
swallows the yarn told by the sheiks, but
is resolved to refuse them compensation
and precipitate a war with their country.
His twin kidnaps him, impersonates him
at a Cabinet conference with the sheiks,
and by the aid of a dictaphone proves the
guilt of the assassins. War is averted,
the sheiks are thrown into prison, and the
Foreign Secretary gains great kudos.
The plot is ridiculous, but it affords
Arliss all the opportunities he needs
for a display of his dry humor and diplo-
matic adroitness. In addition to playing
good fairy to the young Emir, he pre-
sides with avuncular jocularity over a
love affair between his niece and the
young Englishman accused of Emir-
slaughter. The twin brothers frequently
meet, and these scenes are very smooth
examples of trick photography. Fair
entertainment. At Sydney Lyceum.
STAGE SHOWS.
An Ivor Novello Comedy.
Ivor Novello’s comedy “Fresh Fields,”
put on at St. James’s Hall, Sydney, by
the Vogue, Theatre, is a satire on shams
of sassiety. Rose McCarthy gave a
finished study of the languorous, postur-
ing Lady Lilian Bedworthy, who runs
a daily’s “Can I Help You?” column, and
Kathleen Parkes, as the sharply-contrast-
ing sister, Lady Mary, gave excellent
support. Virginia Keysor as Mrs.
Pigeon, newly retired from supervising
“400 bedrooms, with water in each
room,” in a city called Brisbane, situated
vaguely “somewhere in the Antipodes,”
was also very capable, as was Gordon
Patrick, her engaging brother Tom.
Millie Butler acted with spirit, but was
not entirely successful as the gauche
Una; Eugenie Doctor had poise, but
was perhaps a trifle too decorative as the
debutante-sponsoring peeress; Joyce
Darvel was in her element as a sorely-
tried secretary, and Chips Skarratt was
James Stewart in “Born to Dance.”
credible as a youthful scion of nobility.
Production and direction were excellent.
•P 4*
Mozart and Sibelius at Sydney Con.
Highlights of the opening performance
of Sydney Con.’s orchestral concert
season were the “Haffner” Symphony
of Mozart, the same composer’s concerto
for two pianofortes and Sibelius’s Second
Symphony, all excellently rendered. The
contrast between Mozart and Sibelius is
effectively illustrated by the works
chosen. The Salzburg prodigy takes a
few very trite themes and gives them
musical value by sheer elegance of de-
velopment. The Finlander produces a
wealth of original and at first sight in-
congruous phrases, gives them their
places in a well-knit composition and
then lets them fall apart again. Dr.


wm
m :
W&
SB
i
1111 l
: : >'■■'■•;
wmMMMrnm
SSSiS
■yyyyy-'yyyyy-y
■amam
JS
k>
cn.<
*
9 for 6d. —lB for 1/
Cork-Tipped or Plain
'''" A ' :
ALSO BLACK AND WHITE FINE CUT
m
': siH
ffi'x
wmm
■
SSSs
yyyyyy.
m
IDENTICAL WITH THE CIGARETTES
CHOSEN BY Mr. RICHARD CROOKS
wm.
THE FINEST MONEY CAN BUY
Bainton’s conducting was spirited, and
the concerto pianists gave full value to
their differing but equally interesting
parts. The band rose well above its
normal level in the. Sibelius number. To
balance matters it fell below par in the
“Idomeneo” overture.
•F 4* 4* 4*
Miss Osborne’s Farewell.
Nance Osborne’s clear top notes,
Frederic Collier’s noble bass, Leslie
Barklam’s flute, the young fingers of
Noel Mewton-Wood and other voices
and instruments, plus vigorous applause
from a large audience, woke Melbourne
Town Hall from its summer sleep last
week. The occasion was Miss Osborne’s
farewell benefit before she sets out to
acquire European polish for her already
highly developed voice. The competi-
tion-winner sang a familiar air by Saint-
Saens with exquisite grace and skill, and,
as she is a specialist in arias, scattered
assorted varieties through her pro-
gramme and rendered most of them bril-
liantly. Light entertainment was pro-
vided by a septet of players belonging to
the higher instrumental hierarchy. Bene-
fit concerts are usually carefully avoided
by Melbourne music-lovers, but Miss
Osborne’s soprano is so well known and
liked that the hall was thronged in
moderation by a couple of thousand ap-
preciative souls.
•F *F *F 4*
Body in a Chest.
The dominating character in “Rope,”
Patrick Hamilton’s strange play pro-
duced by the Maurice Latimer players
at the Brighton (Vic.) Town Hall on
Saturday night, never made an official
appearance ; he was a body in an antique
chest in the centre of the stage.
The play, which enjoyed a London
season in 1929 and has had some Aus-
tralian performances at the hands of
amateurs, is a psychological study of a
murder committed for the “fun, danger
and adventure of it.”
Apart from a few unconvincing off-
stage storm noises, the play was well
produced, with the characters cleverly
increasing the tension. Chester Hambly
and John Barnes were excellently cast
as the murderer and the suspiciously
clever poet, and Betty Howden and Jim
Palmer were equally satisfactory in the
more normal roles. J. Lloyd Jones, in brief
appearances as the elderly father of the
victim, created just the right atmosphere
of pride and pathos. William Wood was
the shaking accomplice—and a good
part he made of it. The only feminine
character, apart from Miss Howden’s,
was the reserved Mrs. Debenham, Gene-
vieve Grainger making a striking char-
acter of her silent stolidity. The man-
servant’s part was well played by
Maurice Latimer.
Much of the dialogue came from an
almost dark stage, but the characters
were so well cast that the audience could
not mistake, the identity of any speaker.
Noel Coward’s brief “Rain Before
Seven” was played by William Wood and
Genevieve Grainger as a sort of curtain-
riser. Both brisk young people had
different characters to portray from those
in “Rope,” but did them just as well.
CURRENT ARTBURSTS.
Vassilieff Again.
He introduced himself to Sydney about
a year ago with a show of paintings the
like of which never was seen before
under the Southern Cross. Realists and
impressionists we’ve had by the score,
but for sheer ruthless sincerity and cour-
age Vassilieff knocks ’em all into .a
cocked hat. At first sight his pictures are
literally shocking, but the shock over-
come it dawns upon the beholder that
this Russian does what he sets out to do.
Lately he’s been living in Surry Hills,
“The Nattai River, Burragorang,” by W. Lister Lister,
at Anthony Horderns’ gallery, Sydney.
and he can express the slummmess and
squalor of that misleadingly-named dis-
tnct . better u with SIX ,] lnes and ei § h t
smudges than could conventional
draughtsmen if they spent hours on the
job. There are power and feeling in
these crude-looking paintings and a
subtle sense of color. The Macquarie
Galleries, Sydney, house his latest
show.
Since his previous show Vassilieff has
changed his technique. Formerly many
of his pictures looked as if they were
worked out on a black or dark-grey
ground. Now a liberal use is made of
white, and objects are just outlined, the
general first impression being that every-
thing was painted in a snowstorm. But
that impression passes, and the spirit of
the scene is clearly to be discerned.
Never was there, such a stickler for
the ugly truth. Set Vassilieff before
some romantic rural scene and the first
thing that will strike his eye will be a
row of telegraph posts, and the second
the. sleepers on the railway track. The
proud city of Sydney seems to him about
as impressive as a rubbish heap. He
painted it (apparently) from the North
Shore, at a spot where he could get a
shunting yard into the foreground. It is
a picture that should make City Coun-
cillors want to go and hang themselves.
As to the Vassilieff conception of the
human form divine, it must be seen to
be believed.
Criticism is not for Vassilieff. He is
too bravely, hugely, fantastically himself
and nobody else. He, goes back to
London, where his appetite for slums
will be glutted, in the near future, and
should vastly strengthen support for the
L.C.C.’s housing schemes.
•J*
The Lister Lister Show.
Lister Lister in his show at Anthony
Horderns’ gallery demonstrates once
again his mastery
as a limner of the
sunlit N. S. Wales
countryside, revel-
ling as ever in
scenes that suggest
the drowsy peace
of a summer’s
afternoon. His
principal offering
on this occasion, a
huge canvas, “The
Nattai River, Bur-
ragorang,” is the
apotheosis of this
mood, the river
waters unruffled
by the slightest
puff of wind, the
great trees bathed
in golden sunshine.
There is a fine
piece of beach
painting in “The
Coast Near Narra-
been,” and an essay in, portraying
more turbulent weather than usual, “A
Mute Company of Changeful Clouds,”
is strikingly successful. Placid sunsets
in cloudless skies form effective back-
grounds to two of the pastoral scenes
depicted. The oils, in short, whether
landscapes or seascapes, are an even,
characteristic lot.
As in previous years the majority of
the water-colors are not up to the oils
in quality, being a little heavy and
labored. Exceptions are “At the Close
of Day,” “100 Degrees in the Shade,”
“A Gleam of Golden Sunset” and
“Biloga Beach,” which have the richness
of color harmony that makes the oils so
enjoyable.
4* 4* 4*
Melbourne’s New Statues.
“Cauboy”: Two colossal statues in
green bronze have been erected in front
of the National Gallery in Melbourne.
They are by an academic English sculp-
tor, and a lot of money has been paid
for them.
The reaction of the public has been
curious. One artist suggested that the
magnificent Moreton Bay figs which
decorate the lawn and are one of the
prides of the city should be cut down to
give passers-by a better view of the
statues. Others regard the works as
war memorials. Still others accept them
as a diatribe against the horror and ab-
surdity of war, apparently regarding the
heroic figure of the soldier with fixed
bayonet, standing with legs apart and
titled “Wipers,” and the figure of the.
driver backed against a marble slab of
dazzling whiteness as something in the
nature of monumental cartoons.
Viewed aesthetically, the statues cannot
be compared for beauty of rendering
with the tiny Minerva head of Rodin
which is so badly placed in the Gallery
proper ; nor is it a patch on the authentic
Greek statue of Aphrodite for which
the authorities paid a modest £lOOO. The
impressiveness of the infantryman’s pose
is negatived by the multiplication of
detail.
•F *F *F *F
Lively Flower Studies.
Gay flower paintings in oils, 43 con-
sistently good ones, make up Violet
Mclnnes’s first solo Melbourne exhibi-
tion, opened last week in the Sedon Gal-
leries. Dark backgrounds, with cleverly-
executed bowls and small, unobtrusive
china ornaments showing below the
flowers, are used to catch lighting effects
and throw into relief the gaiety of the
main subjects. It is a unique show in
that Mrs. Mclnnes grew her subjects,
which affection probably accounts in
part for their effective, treatment. Among
the studies one of pale water-lilies, with
shadows on the petals, contrasts with the
bolder treatment and color in “The Dutch
Girl,” named from a china figure in the
foreground, and “The Mauve Bowl,”
showing blooming roses, two examples
of the painter at her best.
•F *F *F *F
Thomas Bone’s Water-colors.
Light and color effects peculiar to the
Australian landscape characterise many
of the water-colors shown by the young
S Australian artist Thomas Bone, whose
first one-man Melbourne show has
opened at Kozminsky’s Galleries. His
feeling for these effects is a promising
feature in work that still breathes a cer-
tain immaturity. The drawing is gener-
ally good, as shown in the rural scenes
containing glimpses of farmhouses, barns
and implements. Fresh studies of gums
and silver birches are among the best
exhibits ; there are also good light effects
in sketches painted against the sun.


M aW
+Vie
VttnwowH
Your
wbil«
S Y 0
Home
i n
ne^
You’ll enjoy a stay at the Went-
worth. Whether your trip be busi-
ness or social, the Wentworth is
ideal. Close to business and social
centres, the Wentworth is yet noted
for its restful comfort, its service
and cuisine. Wire or write for
reservations.
Room and Breakfast 12/6
Inclusive 18/-
WENTWORTH
HOTEL
SYDNEY.'PHONE BW 1361
CD. MACLURCAN MNG. DIRECTOR
J. 8. LEVY, Manager.
Bartz Salts of the Earth
Drugs are only a temporary relief, but BARTZ,
' the IMPROVED MINERAL SPRING TONIC
SALTS, is Nature’s own remedy for excessive
fat, headache, rheumatic pains, sleeplessness,
giddiness, high blood pressure, constipation, etc.
Obtainable all Chemists and Stores, price 6d.,
1/- and 2/-. Sole distributors,
British Colonial & Eastern Chemicals, Etd.,
<55—69 York Street, Sydney. ’Phones BVVfiOfli.
Visit
THE AUSTRALIAN ART
EXHIBITION
The Macleod Gallery,
Bulletin Buildings, 252 George Street
(Near Bridge Street).
Latest Pictures by leading Australian
Artists. Gallery now reopened after
renovations and rearrangement.
ADMISSION FREE.
Tel., 87971.
Personal and Missing Friends.
JACKSON, EUGENE, son of William Jack-
son, of Edgecliff, deceased, went from West-
mead Boys’ Home to Fisher’s Hill m 1931.
Anyone knowing his present address kindly
communicate with the undersigned.—-W. H.
GEDDES, Public Trustee, 14 Castlereagh
Stieet, Sydney.
WILL SADIE MURIITBRUCE, a daughter
of James Bruce, of Holbrook and Surry Hills,
or any person knowing her T e^ ab xd t’tqtpp 6
communicate with the PUBLIC TRUSTEE,
Savings Bank Building, Castlereagh Street
Sydney? Miss Bruce was last heard of at Potts
Point, Sydney, about 1929, when she was
employed as a nurse.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
This Letter helped launch a great
adventure for the girls and boys of
Woolloomooloo last week. Argonauts
and Treasure Island, the London of
Dickens, the Highlands of Walter Scott
and the wonders of this island continent
which is their heritage were flung wide
for their choice when the Woolloomooloo
library for girls and boys opened its
doors. The library is in one of Sydney’s
green places, just down from William-
street. Here, are hoary Moreton Bays,
tall plane trees and soft-springing
emerald grass. What lovelier spot could
be found for girl and boy to read and
dream when summer afternoons stretch
long and golden after school?
The building is of dark brick, and is
long and of one storey. At its many
windows blow short, deep-blue curtains.
Its walls are faint primrose, its shelves fit
cosily to the walls, not too high for
small ones. On the top shelf occurs
every now and then a piece of vivid
pottery or a vase of smooth glaze. Over
the shelves are pictures of famous
authors: Dickens and Thackeray, Scott
and R. L. Stevenson. Here is an oaken
screen decorated with bronze plaques of
Dickens characters. Chairs and tables
are low, near the big open fireplace are
piles of gay cushions, and bright rugs
are on the polished floors.
This is the third home of the Children’s
Library Movement, started years ago by
Mary Rivett (now Mrs. Tom Matheson)
and sister Elsie in Devonshire-street,
Surry Hills. The libraries are free, the
helpers are voluntary. And note this:
the libraries can always do with more
workers. Besides the lending out of
books, the libraries have a story-telling
hour (always a popular feature), the
children are taught folk dancing and are
taught to draw and to make pottery.
With vision in her eyes Mrs. Matheson,
at the opening, looked across the green
lawn outside the doors, and visualised an
open-air theatre for children. Mayoress
Parkes in a frock of deep delphinium-
blue said the opening speech. City
Librarian Bertie and the Education
Department’s Bertie Harkness were other
speakers. Myra Cocks, whose hobby is
child art, was there with Margery
Murdoch, and Grace Scobie brought an
interested group. The Mitchell Library’s
Miss Sherry helped serve the tea. Duncan
Macdougall, with a letter from the wife
of his old friend Eugene O’Neill in his
pocket, was among the appreciative.
When Mrs. Sybil Morrison, not long
returned from travels in foreign parts,
sent out a coo-ee to her friends to come
along to the Australia for a champagne
party, nobody was surprised, for they
knew their hostess likes giving parties.
When Carlyle Greenwell asked his vari-
ous friends to drop in at the same
address and have a cocktail, they thought
he was just making whoopee because he
was home again after his journeys. When
the two lots of guests arrived at the
Australia they were both whisked up to
the Gloucester room, and there stood
the host and hostess, man and wife since
earlier that afternoon. The romance was
the blossoming of a long friendship, and
not one of the 80 or so friends who
drank the toasts had guessed they were
being invited to a wedding celebration.
Mrs. Greenwell, who is a member of
the N. S. Wales Bar, received in the
frock which she had earlier worn at
St. Stephen’s, where the deed of partner-
ship had been blessed. The frock was of
black cloque, thickly patterned in gold,
and cut with the new swallowtail basque.
Her small hat was of the skull-cap style,
in black velour. Mrs. Greenwell was
one of the first women barristers in the
State. She was admitted to the Middle
Temple, London, some years ago. Car-
lyle Greenwell is a noted Sydney archi-
tect. His grandfather, William Munro,
was the architect for the old St.
Stephen’s, for many years a landmark
of Phillip-street. Mr. and Mrs. C. H.
Gibbs, of Killara, Mrs. Greenwell’s
parents, were present.
In this Dayne portrait is Shirley, the
slim and fair daughter of knight Hugh
Poynter and his lady. She has just ended
her schooldays at Abbotsleigh, and will
make her entry to the social world at
Belinda Street’s dance at Government
House next .week.
That the activities of the Red Cross
are still vital was proved at the confer-
ence last week. Five hundred delegates
from 68 suburban and 77 country
branches listened to the speeches with
close attention. The V.A.D. is to flour-
ish again. Colonel W. Vickers, State
Controller of V.A.Ds., told the meeting
that one of this year’s objects would be
the organising of 500 more of these
voluntary workers. A building that will
house all the Red Cross departments is
shortly to arise in Jamieson-street.
This announcement and that of the
visit of M. de Gielgud from the Red
Cross in Paris were the highlights of the
deputy-chairman’s address. The most-
applauded item of the day was the
presentation of a long-service medal to
the wife of Lieutenant-Governor Street.
This crowned her 20 years of work for
the Red Cross. Others who have never
tired were decorated by the acting-vice-
reine after she had received her own
award from Miss Consett Stephen,
0.8. E.
One of the handsomest wedding gifts
sent to Mrs. Ken Mackay was a
dressing-case fitted with silver. This
came from the Maharajah of Dar-
bhanga. Before her marriage in St. Paul’s
Cathedral, Calcutta, Mrs. Mackay was
Phyllis Skene, of Campbelltown. She
and her father and brother Bob, the well-
known polo players, often make trips to
India with ponies, and while in India
Mrs. Mackay played a good deal of polo.
After the heat of the streets and the
roar of Thursday afternoon’s traffic
Lister Lister’s show at Anthony Hor-
derns’ gallery was a pleasant affair. Here
were shady trees, the blue mauve of dis-
tant hills, stark headlands and the cool
blue-green of curling wave. The open-
ing speech was made by knight Hugh
Poynter, and with him was his lady, her
ivory ensemble topped by a small hat
of geranium-red ballibuntal. Mrs. Harry
Betts, down from Orange, talked to artist
J. S. Watkins. Mr. Lister’s daughter,
Mrs. J. Harris, who later helped him en-
tertain a large group at tea, wore a strik-
ing frock of huntsman-green angora.
This was made with a tunic, very flared,
in the Cossack manner, deeply edged
with tawny fur. The accompanying hat
was green, and pillbox in shape.
Lieutenant-Governor Street and his
wife had good luck with the weather for
their garden party for the Red Cross
delegates. This happened on Thursday,
when the last of the cyclone had been
wiped from the face of Sydney. Radiant
sun and skies that burned blue were the
right tent for the out-of-doors entertain-
ment. Every town in the State surely
was represented among the 400 guests,
The flowers, after the rain, were bril-
liant. Host and hostess greeted their
guests on the verandah with its far-flung
views. Down on the lawn a band made
gay music. Altogether, it was a pleasant
interlude to the serious business of the
conference.
Over 400 delegates travelled to Orange
for the C.W.A. annual conference,
Neither bad weather nor bad roads de-
terred them nor broke their spirit. All,
even early-morning arrivals by train,
greeted Orange with a smile. The con-
ference was held in the Australia Theatre,
and was opened by Mrs. Graham Mylne,
president of Queensland’s C.W.A. Mrs.
Lance Smith, Mrs. Matt Sawyer and
Mrs. Hubert Fairfax were notable speak-
ers. Dr. W. F. Matthews, the Mayor of
Orange, gave the delegates a civic wel-
come, and over 2000 crowded the open-
ing ceremony. The intended picnic in
Cook Park, famed for its begonias, was
washed out by the rain, but became a
happy and informal tea in the Strand
Palais. Victoria’s Mrs. R. T. Larking
gave a handicrafts demonstration in the
Memorial Hall which proved of absorb-
ing interest.
Maorilanders in Sydney, sometimes a
little homesick for the tearing winds, the
driving mists and the tussocky hills of
their homeland, will foregather at the
Con. on Saturday. Here the Waiata
Maori Choir, with a reproduction of
their native pa for background, will give
a programme of hakas and chants, and
show us the games their race has played
since time immemorial.
This is attractive Belinda Street,
daughter of the Justice Streets, for whom
her grandparents, the Lieutenant-Gov-
ernor and his lady, are giving a dance
at Government House midway through
next week. Photograph from Falk.
Already the city is simmering up for
Easter. Invitations to all sorts of parties
are out, and there’s imagination about
some of them —for instance, the Bertie
Kellys’ Easter Sunday-morning eggnog
party. For a week later they have
arranged a “hair of the dog” rally. On
the 31st the Lieutenant-Governor Streets
are giving a dance, at Government House
for granddaughter Belinda Street. Cock-
tails at the Royal Sydney Golf Club are
the offering of “Beau” Burdekin and
daughter Katherine. The Tony Hordern
dance at Retford Hall, the Sam Hordern
lady’s ball at Rose Bay Golf Club, and
George Falkiner’s party at Elizabeth Bay
House mark other red-letter days in the
social calendar. Then there are the
Show and the, races —Easter eggs for
everybody!
This State’s members of the women’s
cricket team, who sailed by the Jervis Bay
on Saturday for a tour of England, were
wished the best at a series of farewells
last week. A great tea-drinking was
staged in their honor by Mrs. E. A.
Thomas, president of the N.S.W.
Women’s Cricket Association. To this
came Sydney’s Mayoress Parkes, and
Leichhardt, Paddington, Annandale and
Petersham were also represented by their
civic hostesses. Dame Mary Hughes,
Mrs. H. W. K. Mowll and Mrs. Earle
Page were good-luck wishers.
Each of the girl players contributed
£75. Of this £4O will be given back at
the rate of 15s. a week on board and
30s. a week when London and the big
cities incite to giddy expenditure. Most
of the funds for the team have been
made up by the State associations and
by the Australian Council. Mrs. Ranald
Peden captains this first women’s cricket
team to leave Australia for a tour of
England.
French was the only language heard
at the Savoy last Friday night, when the
comedy “Tovaritch” was presented by
Belgium’s Consul-General Segaert. All
the players in the well-rehearsed cast
were Belgian or French, and the audience
was mostly of the same nationalities. In
addition, almost every Consul arrived,
complete with wife, so the theatre had
quite an international atmosphere. Hugh
Poynter (president of the French Alli-
ance) and his lady received France’s
Consul-General Suzors, and then greeted
a never-ending stream of friends. The
top-piece of Lady Poynter’s black crepe
frock was of the palest pink georgette
and scintillated with sequins. Mrs.
Suzor also wore black.
If the comedy had not been as well
acted as it was, it was well worth seeing
from a woman’s point of view for the
way it was dressed. Take, for instance,
the third act, when the flowing rose sheer
of Lady Karrigan is seated beside the
midnight blue, embossed with silver ele-
gance, of Louise. The frocks in front
were as smart as those on the stage.
Mrs. Segaert made her first outing since
her illness in the richness of black satin.
Mrs. Hans Fay chose the crispness of
white taffeta. Mrs. E. Meyer’s dull sap-
phire blues had a stiff narrow frill on the
shoulders. Germany’s Dr. Asmis came
with Mrs. Asmis, whose burgundy chiffons
were a contrast to the rose shades worn
by Mrs. Norman Macleod and the pale
water-color effect of the Francis Ander-
son lady’s outfit. The Doucets, senior
and junior, were there. Mrs. Doucet,
junior (Jeanne Suzor that was), gleamed
in cire satin. A ground-length coat of
amethyst taffeta was worn by Jocelyn
Poynter. Joyce Beazley, the Bertie
Kellys, Mrs. Ivy Moore and the Frank
Wrights were others of the hundreds
present'.
Eugene O’Neill has been ill —an
appendix operation. The letter to Duncan
Macdougall, which the playwright
dictated to Mrs. O’Neill, is warm-hearted
and friendly, and mentions the work
Duncan has done in introducing the
O’Neill plays to Sydney. It goes on to
say that Duncan can produce, any of his
works without royalties, and ends with
a charming line added by Mrs. O’Neill,
“Gene always loves his friends.” They
talk of building a new home in Northern
California. It is altogether a very simple
and direct epistle, and shows the Nobel
Prize winner in a light none of his inter-
viewers has caught.
There was quite a party of Maori-
landers after the christening of Douglas
Jowett Bush. Baptismal waters were
poured at St. John’s, Darlinghurst,
where father and mother had their wed-
ding a little over three years ago. Twin
Pines, the Bush home at Vaucluse, held
the party.
When the W. A. Mackays, of Haw-
thornden, Edgecliff, sent out invitations
for a dance at' the Rose Bay Golf Club
to farewell Viscount Glenapp, there were
practically no absentees. The Viscount,
who has been visiting Maoriland, goes
off to England in the Strathnaver, and
cousin Donald Mackay, who helped en-
tertain, went as far as Melbourne with
him. Mrs. Mackay wore a handsome
outfit of burgundy and silver; the D. J.
Mackay Sims and the Alan Potters
helped represent shipping ; the Colonel
Bundocks, she in gold lame, were among
those in the berry-and-dahlia-decked
rooms; Anne Gordon’s picture frock of
black moire had little puffed sleeves;
Pamela and June Osborne, Alix Lamb
and Mrs. Venn Wesche were attractive
others there.
The C.W.A. has again elected Mrs.
Matt Sawyer as its president. This
marks her 10 years of presidency and
speaks for itself as to her popularity
and efficiency.


SERVING
SSH-
■
il
$
H
1
$ll
■ ;
Tit ALIAS
I I D ITS TRY
AND
COMMERCE
n
r
Wireless communications are an all-import-
ant factor in the industrial and commercial
development of Australia.
Over twenty million words a year are ex-
changed by the A. W.A. communication ser-
vices.
Public wireless message services are available
by Beam wireless to most parts of the world,
and further A.W.A. services for public use
include wireless messages to Papua, New
Guinea and Fiji.
For more than twenty-four years wireless
services have been conducted on ships at sea,
for the safety of life and for the interchange
of public wireless telegrams between ship
and shore.
Wireless telephone stations of world-range
enable Australians to converse with their
friends and business associates in almost
any part of the world.
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS
(AUSTRALASIA) LTD.
AUSTRALIA'S NATIONAL WIRELESS ORGANISATION


Corns Sentenced to Death .
Corns have worried you—now worry them:
although “worry” is hardly the word, for
A’CORN SILK does not trifle with corns, but
ruthlessly kills them. How comfortable your
feet feel aCer A’CORN SILK has removed
all your soft or hard corns —a 6d. packet will
do this for you without pain or inconvenience.
rn ms are killed while you sleep—a matter of
a few hours. Chemists sell A’CORN SILK at
6d per packet. Packed by Felton, Grimwadc
and Duerdins, Ltd., Melbourne.
Short Story
c Writing
tyree Lance
( Journalism
Learn and Earn The most thorough and practical
in Spare Time ! Course of Training ever written!
Instruction and Constructive Criticism by Practical
Journalists and Short Story Writers . . . You learn
how to write and how to sell your stories and articles.
Full details sent on application to
I.C.S. School of Journalism
140 Elizabeth Street, Sydney
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1986 of 1936.
BETWEEN VIOLET HAZEL OXLEY Peti-
AncTsTANLEY OXLEY Respondent.
STANLEY OXLEY late of Enmore near
Sydney in the State of New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said VlOLbi
HAZEL OXLEY has commenced a suit against
you in this Honorable Court is
for a dissolution of marriage on the pounds ot
wilful desertion without just cause or excug
for a period of three years and JSto'enter
TAKE NOTICE that you are required to ente
an appearance to the said suit at P f
office of this Honorable Court on or b store
the fourth day of June One thousand n h
dred and thirty-seven and in the event
not doing so within the time limited o
ing further time the Petitioner wll P oceeu anu
the suit be heard and de <- er ”™ h tion filed
notwithstanding. A copy of the petmon
herein may be. had on application
undersigned Solicitors free of 8
DATED this Tenth day of March, a. •
For the Rc^mr, joHNSON
(.L.sd clerk in Divorce-
E. J. McQUIGGIN & Solici-
tors, 3 Castlereagh Street, Sydn y.
Melbourne
Chatter
Zinnias had their say in the grand
manner at the Moonee Valley holiday
meeting. From a strip of pale russet on
the high slope of the lawn they glowed
to deeper reds along the fence to the
partition, where they met a close hedge
of gorgeous wine-colored dahlias. On
the hot afternoon the shade of elms,
gums and cypresses was most welcome,
so that the saddling paddock was the
most popular part of the course. Molly
and Anne McAuley, both in white, made
a propitious start early in the day by
securing a share in Bellevue’s worth-
while div. But for her shallow-crowned,
wide-brimmed black hat, Mrs. Norman
Robinson was in all white, with ripple
silk frock, bag, gloves and shoes all
matching. Mrs. Ross Grey-Smith’s
tailored frock was one shade removed
from white, red buttons matching the
embroideries on the pocket. Black-and-
white was the choice of Mrs. W. S. Cox
and navy and white of Lesley Bailey,
who had a fingertip-length coat as part
of her ensemble. In brown scattered
with creamy twigs was Mrs. P. I. Levett,
who embarked yesterday in the Strath-
naver for Paris and London. Son Geof-
frey, who accompanied her, is going to
Cambridge in October to study eco-
nomics.
The hero of the Peninsula Polo Club’s
picnic meeting held at Mornington race-
course was undoubtedly Sid, a steed of
unknown pedigree who, from scratch,
carried 17 stone of T. B. Guest to vic-
tory in the Polo Cup. It was a whale
of a race. Handicaps were adjusted not
by weights at the barrier, but by the
horses with the lightest jockeys being
sent away from 10 to 70 yards behind
scratch. Nothing ever got near the
hoofs of Sid, who finished the four-and-
a-half-furlongs sprint like a blast of
thunder. To add to the comedy the
clerk of the course somehow got into the
race and passed the post at a gallop as
part of the field. Tom Guest’s reward
was a size-for-weight silver cup, which
was soon filled with champagne ; Sid s
was a carrot and lump of sugar, and
Mrs. Guest’s faith in horse and husband
was rewarded by a bundle of notes from
a bookie. Mrs. Guest wore a navy
spotted with white culotte ensemble and
no stockings with her white canvas
sandals.
Winner of the ladies’ polo handicap
(for which riders had to be associates of
a registered polo club) was Lynette Dun-
stan, on her Rivette. As winning owner
she received silver fish-knives and -forks,
and as winning rider a silver-mounted
crop presented by Hector Kendall, be-
reaved owner of orang-outang Jimmy,
who died of pneumonia following on
overeating. Among other entrants in the
ladies’ event were whole families, four
Brights and three Desaillys, for Mrs.
Esmond Shiels was Vera Desailly before
her marriage 15 years ago ; it was her
first race since. She looks ridiculously
young to possess a daughter of 13, and
with her good features, fine eyes and
beautifully straight back made as smart
an equestrienne as one could wish to see.
Mrs. Ken Moore was handed a silver
entree dish for her speed in the handi-
cap. The only thing that women jockeys
can’t do as well as men is to keep their
caps on during their races. After each
ladies’ event the clerk of the course went
riding along the track to collect strayed
headgear.
Among spectators at the meeting were
Mrs. Roy Grounds, wearing a gold belt
on her tan frock and no stockings on her
tan legs ; Mrs. Tom Ramsay, in a white
linen coat with widely exaggerated
shoulders ; Moira Morell and Joan Pur-
nell, both hatless, and Mrs. Norman
Falkiner and Mrs. Tom Rutherford, who
had “grandstand” seats on the green
grass of the sloping lawns. Mrs. Avalon
Austin wore white linen, and Mrs.
Forbes Mackenzie sported a purple hat
and scarf with a lilac frock. Mrs. J.
Dunston and Mrs. Ernest Machin were
there making final plans for the dance
of the evening at Ranelagh.
Col. and Mrs. Pott brought their Scot-
tish terrier attached to a leash, and all
three had picnic lunch on the side of the,
road a few miles from Mornington. Once
on the course Col. Pott and Daryl Lind-
say were inclined to avoid one another,
for they were in identical Norfolk
coats of brown-and-black checks. Mrs.
Norman Trenery wore a large red hat,
a check linen frock and sunglasses which
she calls her heirlooms. The glasses have
wire sidepieces, and are 50 years old.
General Grimwade was there, also Sam
Hawken, following the prevailing mas-
culine trend towards green with a sprig
of green hydrangea snipped into the
buttonhole of his greenish tweed coat.
Among other picnickers were, Mrs. Duke
Watt, Mrs. Edgar Guest and her daugh-
ter Mrs. Kinnear, Mrs. Jack Edgar, wear-
ing a corn-colored frock and carrying a
shooting stick, and Mrs. Haffee Fern, in
a two-minded frock of white sp*bts on
navy and navy spots on white. Trophies
were presented by Gengoult Smith, who
had on tap a nice fund of congratu-
latory speeches.
Marjorie Barrett was married last week
to Lloyd Lamble, youngest son of the
W. H. S. Lambles, of Hawthorn. Lloyd
did well in repertory work before his
more recent initiation to musical
comedy. The young couple hope to go
abroad some day in the interests of
Lloyd’s career (Mrs. Lamble has not done
any acting), but at present they are
both satisfied that he should gain more
experience nearer home. The bride,
whose portrait is by Athol Shmitli, is the
daughter of Mrs. M. Barrett, of South
Yarra.
Members of each of the St. Vincent’s
Hospital auxiliaries squeezed into the
hospital boardroom for a farewell to
their president, Mrs. Lyons, and her
daughter Sheila. There is no question
about Mrs. Lyons’s oratory ; she doesn’t
use notes, is never stuck for a word, has
a well-pitched voice and a smile that
must disarm even the most aggressive
political critic. She attributes her Corona-
tion trip to “an accident of public life,”
for her husband “just happened to be
Prime Minister,” and assures the women
of Australia that in the responsible duties
ahead of her she will not forget that they
“are trusting her to struggle through a
decent representation of them.”
Sheila Lyons has grown into an attrac-
tive girl with good features and com-
plexion, beautiful eyes and a somewhat
shy smile. To the afternoon function she
wore a little peaked toque with a visor
veil and a black frock, to which she
pinned her presentation spray of flowers.
In congratulation upon her recent
0.8. E. Mrs. J. J. Daly was presented
with a basket of delphiniums and
gladioli. Mrs. Len Buxton, who will ac-
company her husband on a trip abroad
at the end of the month, came up from
Mount Martha for the meeting and gave
the hospital a tidy little surprise packet
of a cheque for £lOO. She wore an
unusual ensemble of white cloque crepe
with choker neck and bolero sash of
deep fuchsia. Mrs. W. R. Burston was
in blue, and with her usual kindness of
heart acted as voluntary usher, thus
securing seats for latecomers who would
otherwise have remained in dense
clusters round the door. Afterwards she
took the opportunity of visiting her be-
loved hospital shop, which, owing to her
organising, has shown a substantial
profit every year since its inauguration
in 1929. Mrs. Burston also paid calls
on several patients and on Sister de
Sales, who is in charge of the kitchens
and storerooms.
The E. L. Kiernan couple, though they
bear no grudge against the weather, think
it treated them in a very unsporting
manner. The preparations for an even-
ing party at their home in aid of the
Mercy Hospital included elaborate deco-
rations of garden lighting, but the sudden
violent storm spoilt all thought of out-
door activities. George Walton had
written a play which he and his cast
were ready to produce on the lawn with
shrubbery for scenery and stage lights
hidden in a bed of zinnias. Their alter-
native was an indoors reading of “Cath-
erine Parr.” An interesting musical pro-
gramme was put through in the lounge,
and for those who preferred bridge there
was a quieter room available upstairs.
Supper was served in a marquee, safely
secured to the verandah on the sheltered
side of the house. Mrs. Kiernan, who
is president of the hospital, wore fuchsia
chiffon draped in classical lines. Grown-
up son John and Marjorie, who is 17,
assisted their parents in seeing that 150
guests could dispose of stormy-weather
wraps and then find comfortable chairs
in the music-room.
“Rembrandt’s” premiere was followed
by a supper given at the theatre by the
management of the Majestic for a bunch
of well-known painters and other guests.
To augment the artistic atmosphere a
color reproduction of Rembrandt’s
“Young Warrior” and copies of “The
Gold Helmet” and “The Night Watch”
(the large picture which in the film is
derided by the villagers) hung on the
walls of the foyer. There was also
“Rembrandt and His Wife,” about which
the artists present provided the infor-
mation that the lady was the first wife,
Saskia.
Among guests were the director of the
National Gallery and Mrs. Jimmy Mac-
Donald, with James Quinn and a group
of friends reminding one another of the
good old days they had spent wandering
through the Louvre. John Longstaff was
there, breaking all his rules by eating
more than half a sandwich at night and
offering his only criticism of the film,
that a hard-up genius would not live in
such a commodious attic. The Bill
Mclnneses were present, it being one of
their blue-moon nights, for they never
visit cinemas. Max Meldrum, also a
guest, made a resolution to write a book
on the philosophies of the artists. Rem-
brandt would probably figure largely in
it, for Meldrum believes that his epigrams
were the cleverest that have been re-
corded from any painter.
In the Dickinson-Monteath photo, is
Mrs. C. H. Kellaway, wife of the director
of the Walter and Eliza Hall Institute of
Pathology and Medicine. Dr. Kellaway
is a distinguished Australian whose capa-
bilities have, not gone unnoticed by
scientists in other parts of the world.
Within three years he has been twice to
the U.S.A. by special invitation, first as
guest of the Rockefeller Foundation, and
more recently to deliver the Dohme
Memorial Lectures at Baltimore; the
subjects he chose pertained to snake
venoms. Mrs. Kellaway, who accom-
panies her husband on his travels and is
very interested in his work, is an arts
graduate. She comes of a medical family
and is a sister of Drs. Clifford and Vera
Scantlebury.
THE LITTLE SISTERS.
WESTRALIA.
The weather played fair for Royal
Perth Yacht Club’s lady skippers’ day.
A wet sail, a flowing tide and a wind
that followed free brought all craft home
in time for their crews to change for the
evening’s informal dance at the club-
house. After presenting the trophies
Commodore and Mrs. George Gwynne
(she. with fine kiltings moored to her
basqued eau-de-nil georgettes) launched
the dancing. Gwen Cobley, who had
steered the Eldorado to victory, decked
her chiffon rigging with red and green
flowers, Mrs. John Hargrave floated on
a wave of grey-and-pink patterned silks,
Roma Sheridan’s crepes were green as
shallow waters, and Molly Manning’s
organdies were like coral reefs.
The bride who paced the aisle of St.
George’s Cathedral to keep a tryst with
Keith Low, of Kellerberrin, has had
more surnames than fall to the lot of most
maidens. Her youth was spent as Mary
Craven; then name-entailed estates
brought a change to Craven-Smith-
Milnes-Pegg-Burnell. Later the law
allowed the Pegg-Burnell to be dropped,
and as Mary Craven-Smith-Milnes she
went to the altar. The revers of her
simple white tailored linen suit revealed
a filmy lace blouse, and a wide ribbon
bow was tied on her large ballibuntal
straw hat. Sheila Lotz ’maided in tea-
rose linen, embroidered at the neckline
and topped with a rolled straw head-
piece. The Leake wedding vase, adjunct
of all the family descendants’ matri-
monial celebrations, stood on top of the
cake, which was cut at the home of the
bride’s mother.
Another ’groom from the country was
Bernard Bennecke, of Katanning, who
took Mary Douglas to wife at Christ
Church, Claremont. A silver thread out-
lined the pattern of Mary’s magnolia
laces, which were edged with silver cord
at sleeve and neck, belted with silver
lame and finished with pleated lame at
the hem of the long-trained skirt. Bessie
May and Susie Nairn followed in the
wake of her floating tulle veil with the
trains of their lettuce-green ninons out-
lined in autumn flowers to match the
wreaths encircling their heads.
St'. John Irvine’s “Anthony and
Anna” lightly trod the boards of the
Rep. Theatre for the club’s first season
of the year. A picturesque rural scene
from the brush of producer Esmond
George backgrounded the setting of an
old English inn. Owner-headwaiter of
said inn was made an outstanding figure
by Alex. Todd’s finished acting, and his
offsider, Fred, was an admirable foil as
played by Bob Hayes. Name parts were
filled by Gerald Ruse and Betty Camp-
bell, with able support from Gordon
Dean, Denise Dingwall, Frank O’Grady
and Angus Maitland.
At the Gloucester Park Trotting Derby
150 punters trooped into the members
rooms after the race to farewell Lud
Mayor Poynton and his lady. Represen-
tatives of 17 sporting bodies, embracing
equine, aquatic and ball games sup-
porters, were guests of the Trotting
Association, headed by president L P-
Stratton. Minister for Agriculture F. J-
S. Wise made presentations on behalf ol
the gathering, a silver-mounted manicure
set looking well against Mrs. Poynton s
almond-green French crepe with its
touches of beige.
A squadron of launches chug-chugged
from Fremantle Harbor on a cruise to
Bunbury to mark the opening of the


7
people
in 10
NORMAUGUM LINE
§!§
ISENSITIVE SPOTS
have “Sku*iLns gums
at 35!
Qums may start to shrink back ( recede) as early as 20. By 35
most mouths show 3 to 4 “recession” spots at gum line. These
spots are highly sensitive when brushed.
Three common mistakes hasten “shrinking,” according to
modern dentists. Three things to do if you want to retard a
premature “ageing” process.
As GUMS grow old they naturally
lx. recede. Your first warning is
that certain teeth are sensitive to
brushing.
To harsh, abrasive dentifrices, to
ineffective cleansing and to wrong
ways of brushing are laid the
prematurely receding gums of
modern times. Thus, to retard
unnatural "shrinking” of the
gums, follow these three simple
rules.
1. BRUSH PROPERLY
Btush away from the gums,
upwards on the lower teeth and
downwards from above. •
2. USE A PROTECTIVE TOOTH PASTE
—When gums recede, the part
exposed (cementum) is much
softer than enamel. Thus, your
cleansing material must be softer
than "cementum.” Of the leading
brands only Pepsodent is softer
than this more delicate portion of
the tooth .
3. YOU MUST REMOVE FILM
—it contains germs associated
with decay.
Film also combines with lime
salts to form tartar, whose sharp
edges may irritate the gums,
cause bleeding and make gums
recede much faster.
Pepsodent Removes Film
Pepsodent is a special film-remov-
ing tooth paste. Scientists devel-
oped a new softer, safer cleansing
and polishing material. This
special film-removing material is
contained in Pepsodent exclusively.
PEPSODENT
NOW IN A
NEW 10%
LARGER TUBE
THE SPECIAL FILM-REMOVING
TOOTH PASTE
THE 2/. SIZE IS THE MOST ECONOMICAL
Q
women out of lO
live on their Nerves insteacLof
their Food
Z
T TURRIED. scanty meals . . . days of rush and bustle . . .
-*■ sleepless nights . . . nerves always on edge . . . small
wonder that so many women look old long before their time.
No woman can look or feel her best if she does not give due
care to her dietary. Health, energy, nervous poise—all de-
pend upon proper and adequate nourishment.
penu upun prupci diiu. inju-xioiinitiii..
You can always be sure that your diet is complete in health-
giving nutriment if you make delicious “Ovaltine” your daily
beverage. “Ovaltine” is, in itself, a perfect food. It is
supremely rich in nerve-restoring nourishment, and contains
every nutritive element necessary to build up abundant re-
serves of energy and vitality.
Scientifically prepared from the highest qualities of malt
extract, creamy milk and new-laid eggs, “Ovaltine” stands
in a class by itself for quality and value.
Note; “Ovaltine’ is packed in three sizes, THE NETT
WEIGHT IN EACH CASE HAVING BEEN IN-
CREASED \IV2% AT NO EXTRA COST TO YOU.
TRIAL SAMPLE: A generous trial sample of “Ovaltine”, sufficient
to make four cupsful, will be sent on receipt of 3d. in stamps, to
cover cost of packing and postage.
SIZES AND 4Hoz.
PRICES 1/9
9 oz. 18 oz. ALL CHEMISTS
2/10 5/- AND STORES
OVALTINE'
The Supreme Beverage for Health
A. WANDER LIMITED, 1 YORK STREET NORTH, SYDNEY
sou’-west port’s centenary celebrations.
Local golf club, all colorful with bunt-
ing, zinnias and dahlias, housed a dance
to welcome the visitors, with president
C. H. G. Wood and his beige-lace-clad
other half doing the honors. Various
branches of the Rose, Clarke and John-
ston clans were there, Sinclairs and Spen-
cers turned up in force, the Roy Gold-
ings, Sam Cowans and Colin Malcolms
went along, and Joan Canny, Bertha
Baker and Enid Franklyn supplemented
the quota of single folk.
Three office-bearers of the Royal
Schools’ Music Club stood at the portals
of the Karrakatta Club while the hall
filled with members and friends invited
to the club’s afternoon party. President
Mrs. Cecil Mason draped her white-and-
gold satin tunic over a black satin skirt,
Marjorie Huddleston carried out secre-
tarial duties in pastel-flowered georg-
ettes and Phyllis Tweedie assisted in
rustling pink taffetas. Stage furbishings
for the. speeches and musical programme
were pink gladioli, red and white dahlias
and bowls of painted red and gold gum-
nuts.
A small dinner-party at the Savoy
started the celebration of Sheila Christie’s
coming-of-age, with the guest of honor’s
rose shoulder spray matching the halo
of flowers in her hair. Afterwards her
shimmering pink satins were wafted to
the Lido, Cottesloe, where 40 friends had
gathered to dance.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Countess Haig, who has been spending
a few days in Adelaide, is fragile-looking,
and once upon a time was a Maid of
Honor to Queen Victoria, in days when
sport for women would have been re-
garded with horror, but she played
cricket at a picnic gathering and took
two wickets. When the countess visited
the Keswick Repatriation Hospital, she
shook hands with the patients and
chatted with Col. Shepherd, who had
known her husband in France, and with
Sergeant Woodall, who had served under
the field-marshal. Afterwards the visitor
had afternoon-tea with Matron Eddy.
The inter-St'ate tennis matches drew a
crowd of enthusiasts to the Memorial
Drive. Mrs. Ross Sawers looked cool in
a white linen tailored suit and wide-
brimmed white straw hat. Mrs. H. J.
Lipman chose a navy blouse with white
linen suit and navy hat. Mrs. Stanley
Clutterbuck’s powder-blue linen suit
went with a short jacket and navy straw
hat. Linen has been very much worn
this summer, although' it is not particu-
larly cool. Phyllis Reid was in a natural-
toned frock of this material, coin-spotted
in red and navy. Dark glasses with
white rims were very popular, and bare
legs were numerous.
Phillippa and Gordon McFarlane gave
a cocktail party at the South Australian
so that Phillippa, on the eve of a voyage
overseas with her aunt, Mrs. Glanville
Barker, could say good-bye to her many
friends. The young hostess, clad in pale
linen, received the guests in the drawing-
room. They were all young people.
Dean Jose tied the knot' between Joan
Adele, third daughter of William Good-
man and his lady, and Hurtle, only son
of the George Morphetts, of Morphett-
ville. The bride’s frock of white chiffon
had a V neckline and full sleeves, and
the skirt flared from the knees. Her
very long tulle bridal veil, which formed
the train, was held in place by a narrow
band of orange-blossom. Younger sister
Zell was a graceful figure in cyclamen-
toned chiffon on princess lines, worn with
a wide-brimmed hat. Toasts were
honored at the Goodman home.
As big a cocktail party as Adelaide
has seen was given by Mrs. Dudley
Hayward and her daughters-in-law, Mes-
dames lan Hayward and E. W. Hayward,
at John Martin’s dining-hall, which is
on Moorish lines and boasts an up-to-
date dancing floor. Mrs. Dudley Hay-
ward was smartly gowned in May-wine
chiffon diagonally cut on graceful lines,
and her wide-brimmed hat matched in
tone. Mrs. lan Hayward chose a black
wool georgette fitting to the figure, with
white Peter Pan collar and white cuffs
on her elbow sleeves and a black hat
turning off the face. Mrs. E. W. Hay-
ward’s frock of leaf-brown crepe had a
spray of white flowers on the shoulder
and went with a small brown toque.
There was dancing, Mary de Gruchy
(Mrs. Dudley Hayward’s niece) played
pianoforte selections and lan Hayward
sang. The Kidman lady, in pale-grey
chiffon, came with her granddaughters,
Joan and Esme Reid.
The contingent of war nurses who
came to Adelaide in the Orontes en route
for England drove straight from the
liner to Marble Hill, where they had
morning-tea with Lady Dugan. Then
back to the city for luncheon at the
Returned Soldiers’ Club, and on to the
Town Hall for a civic welcome.
When Lord Mayor Wales, of Mel-
bourne, reached Adelaide in the Orontes
his sister, Miss Wales, took a carload
of flowers to the Adelaide HospUal-
parting.tribute to the Mayor tom his
own city The flowers were still per-
tectiy rresn.
TASMANIA.
All that was lacking to make the Gov-
ernment House Ball one of the most
perfectly satisfying affairs of the season
was a little more space ; but a deliciously
warm night made the gardens and ter-
races attractive. Lady Clark wore blue
with a silver metal thread in it. Mrs.
Lane-Poole danced in pale-pink lace.
Twenty-two debs, were presented, 10 of
them last year’s blossoms, having had
to forego presentation in 1936 because
of Court mourning for George V. Mrs.
Butcher, wife of one of the A.D.Cs,
shepherded the flock. The N&vy rolled
up in stiength.
The J. E. Thorps’ pretty old house
Jutland was crowded with guests at the
sherry party given to meet Charles Ben-
son, Tasmanian singer, just returned from
London. Mrs. Thorp’s frock was of
floral crepe in vivid colors. Many guests
came on from the races and other aitei-
noon entertainments.
Mrs. W. Wolfhagen hostessed a big
at-home at the Queen Mary Club by way
of welcome to two erstwhile Tasmanians
revisiting the Speck—Mrs. Finlaison and
Mrs. Nares. Lady Clark attended, and
the guests of honor met many old
friends.
Rear-Admiral Lane-Poole and his offi-
cers entertained a big throng at a late-
afternoon party in the Canberra. The
quarter-deck was cleared for dancing for
the 'benefit of the bright young things
whi e their elders drank cocktails and
explored the ship. Mrs Lane-Poole
wasn t able to receive, as she is ordered
to go slow ; daughter Ann, in a smart
brownish woollen rig with high-crowned
felt ha t, filled the gap>
comm ittee dances were given in
week late , flrst at the
Continenta| when N £ mi Ke nnedy and
Joan cha ’ dkr were secretar / and
treasurer to a long committee of matrons
and maidens, and the second, also at the
Continental, when Mrs. Blake Harris
and Anne Broinowski were joint secs,
£) r . and Mrs. shugg threw open their
charming old home in Davey-street for
a late-afternoon party, which clashed
with the Canberra at-home, but many
g Ue sts managed to squeeze in both. The
tad> f a j r hostess looked her best in
a smart long frock of black and off-white
checked silk with long full sleeves,
Mrs _ Claude James will be missed in
the North when she j oins her husband
(newly _ appointed Agent . General for
Tassie) in England. She has been an
active social worker,
Mrs. Lowe and Mrs. Jessop gave a
“cutlet-fcr-cutlet” party at the Queen
Mary Club before returning to Sydney,
They have been in the Speck for the last
f ew months.
Parties galore have been given to speed
Mrs _ Thos> Lyons and daug hter Sybil,
w ho leave in the Orama for England,
Among recent hostesses were Mrs. John
Hood and Mrs. Forbes Ireland, Mrs,
F. X. de Bavay, Mrs. Geoff Chapman,
Mrs. J. Scott-Reid and Mrs. Alan Miller.


■
i
:■ ,
I
»
bn CANADIAN AUSTRALASIAN LINERS
NIAGARA w AORANCI
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. LTD.
INC
IN
N.Z.
247 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY, OR ANY TOURIST AGENT.
the mercury
Tasmania’s First Daily Newspaper
(Established 1854).
“The Mercury” carries regularly a far
greater total volume of advertising than
any other newspaper published in Tas-
mania. It is thus, judged by the use made
of its columns, the most popular as well
as the most powerful of the newspapers of
Tasmania. Profit by the experience of the
leading national advertisers, and place “The
Mercury” first when advertising in Tas-
mania is under consideration.
“The Mercury” is the only Tasmanian
newspaper which gives A.B.C. certificates
of circulation. These certificates show
that during the 18 months ended Sept. 30,
1936, “The Mercury’s” circulation in-
creased by 1882, and that it had reached
20,471 daily.
Full particulars from
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable Address: MERCURY, HOBART.
Sydney Office: Lisgar House, Carrington St.
F L. WILSON & CO., Representatives.
Melbourne Office: Newspaper House, CoUins St.
F. RIEUSSET, Representative.
ķ
k
THE
PREMIER
CATTLE
POLEY
SADDLE
NARROW
GRIP,
£ll/10/-
(MOUNTED)
It is built on a
high-grade tree
and is made of
long-wearing kip
leather.
N.S.W. Freight Paid for
Cash with Order.
Write for 100-page Saddlery Catalog.
WALTHER & STEVENSON n*-|
395 CEORCE ST. SYDNEY,
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
“Bull-ant Bill”: The flourishing town
of Monto (Q.) has been giving itself a
well-deserved pat on the back on open-
ing its own electricity undertaking. In
July, 1926, the place consisted of three
houses and a tent. Six years later it had
a population of 3250 ; to-day it holds
5000 inhabitants, including 1072 property-
owners. Monto claims that this rate of
progress constitutes a record for the
Commonwealth.
❖** ❖ -
“Warum”: Somebody has suggested
that Queensland towns should develop
a variegated color scheme. The normal
traditional hues of Queensland buildings
are salmon-pink paint on wood, sewer-
brick brown and galvanised-iron grey,
though of late years the red-tiled roof
has braved the hailstones. There is a
lot in the idea of brighter buildings. Scan-
dinavian towns offset the sombreness of
the weather by making themselves look
like Union Jacks, and Mediterranean
buildings acquire a colored charm. My
suggestion is that Queensland should
imitate the example of Ulm, on the
Danube, where the town hall exterior
has been done out in colors with records
of deeds of the city fathers. How much
brighter the stone exterior of Brisbane’s
municipal mansion would be if the pil-
lars carried pictures of Lord Mayor
Jones buying a new civic motor-car and
the Finance Committee on its knees to
the public for a loan. Parliament, of
course, could do better still. Some of
the heroic contests which have taken
place there would need all the colors of
the rainbow to do justice to them.
* * * *
“Zedo”: When the cyclone hit Darwin
it seemed unthinkable that some of the
pearling fleet would not disappear. Even
though the damage done to Darwin was
exaggerated in the southern press, it was
almost without precedent in such a blow
that no life or no boat was lost. The
luggers, warned over the air, had shel-
tered. But it was not Australian wire-
less which saved them. The news was
picked up by one of the Japanese luggers
and passed on! It points to a job the
Commonwealth Government must do:
every lugger fleet needs on at least one
boat wireless capable of receiving storm
signals.
* * * *
“Bray Rock”: An industry which may
produce interesting results is commenc-
ing in Moreton Bay (Q.) —commercial
shark-fishing. The Government has re-
served for shark-netting, temporarily,
several long stretches of foreshore, in-
cluding the whole western side of More-
ton Island from Cape Moreton round
to South Passage, as well as considerable
areas on the Brisbane side. Oil, leather
—the middle layer of split sharkskins is
said to make the best patent leather in
the world—“sandpaper” (from the outer
skin) and fertiliser are among the pro-
ducts expected by the promoters. Cali-
fornia runs to several successful shark-
fishing companies.
H 5 v H*
“Nagheer”: Queensland timbers are
achieving fame. Spotted gum, hickory,
ash and yellowwood all make first-rate
skis, and are in great demand for the
purpose in Victoria. Red tulip oak
from the Far North has also proved
very satisfactory, and considerable orders
have been forthcoming for it from
“D'y' ever stop t' think, Ma, what’d become of this place if anythin 'appeed t me?
Canada for making laminated skis.
Silver-ash oars are produced in large
number in Brisbane, with an export
trade all over Australia and to Maori-
land. Silver quandong is another first-
rate oar-wood, especially for large
sweeps, on account of its lightness in
proportion to strength. Queensland
silver-ash decking is under service tests
by the Australian Navy on the sloop
Yarra. Turpentine, properly seasoned,
has a large demand for underwater
planking in large fishing-boats and
yachts. Strength, hardness and resist-
ance to borer worms are its attractive
qualities. Also, over 33,500,000 super,
feet of Queensland timbers are required
yearly for packing Queensland-grown
fruit.
"Australia Jane's" Budget
Most of those who aren’t going
abroad seem to be planning weddings,
and parties are being staged right and
left. The M. Christophersons are off on
a world tour —America, England and
the Continent —and the farewell ing in
their honor has been almost continuous.
Dr. and Mrs. A. Gerard Anderson gave
one party, and there was another big one
at the Belle Vue, with several hosts and
hostesses. There was another at Rowe’s,
just Oldmeadows and Christophersons
together. Very old friends, these two
families.
Clouds cleared away and blue skies
peeped through for Marjorie Bulcock s
wedding day. She was married at
brother Roy’s home, and he gave her
away. Rev. J. L. Latimer tied the knot.
The bridal garment was of forget-me-
not-blue satin crepe, with pink rosebuds
on the bodice, and she wore a coronet
of rosebuds and carried a posy of them.
There were no attendants. Mrs. Emily
Bulcock wore, midnight-blue velvet and
carried deep-red roses. Mrs. T. Crad-
dock, who has known the bride for years,
made the cake, and the honeymoon is
being spent at Caloundra, which owes
a lot to the Bulcock family. There they
will have a cottage owned by poetess
Emily.
A day or two before the wedding, the
press sisterhood entertained Marjorie in
the afternoon, and the Students’ Theatre
League did likewise the same night.
Bridegroom W. Pueregger arrived from
Vienna only a few days before the wed-
ding ; already he likes both the people
and the country.
Graham Hart, son of the Percy Harts,
and Audrey Bloxome are engaged, and
the fiancee is staying with her future
in-laws at Clayfield. Percy Hart is in
line for the next vacancy on the Supreme
Court Bench, on which he has acted
several times.
Brisbane Amateur Theatre Society is
to produce “Belinda” early in April, and
Jean Trundle is cast for the name part.
Leo Guyatt is- the producer, and Betty
Pike, who leaves for Sydney very soon,
will make what probably will be her
last appearance in Brisbane for some
time. Charles Chauvel has a film option
on her acting.
First production of the Repertory
Society for 1937 is to be “London Wall” ;
Moya Connolly is to have the big
feminine role.
Margaret Lord and Noel Watson
Brown are to be married at' the Lord
home at Augathella on Easter Saturday.
Barbara Weinholt and her mother, Mrs.
Dan Weinholt, gave a party at their
home at East Brisbane in Margaret’s
honor, and there have been many others
during the last week* or so.
March 30 will see the wedding of
Alison Nelson and Cameron Cran at St.
John’s Cathedral. The bride-elect has
been tea’d to distraction and can’t have
had much time for trousseau-chasing.
She was given a host of useful presents
at the kitchen-tea arranged for her by
Val Marks, daughter of Dr. and Mrs.
Alex. Marks, at Toowong.
After the 14th annual meeting of the
Southern Division of the Country
Women’s Association, of which she is
president, Mrs. E. E. Farmer came down
from Toowoomba with daughter Mar-
jorie, who is off to England and the
Continent. They gave a big party at
Rowe’s.
Queensland branch of the Australian
Institute, of International Affairs staged
a huge welcome-home at the Belle Vue
for Dr. T. P. Fry and his bride (she
was Orma Howard Smith). The two
returned from England on the Orama,
having been married in London just
before the boat sailed. Dr. Fry is presi-
dent of the Queensland branch, andl
Mrs. Arnold Conrad, president of the
ladies’ committee, formally welcomed
them home. There was a bouquet for
Mrs. Fry, who wore, a picture frock of
Nile-green taffeta.
Gundel Von Ploennies, a niece of Jus-
tice Macrossan, is taking the medicai
course at Queensland Uni. This should
be easy for Gundel, who already is a
qualified chemist, and who frequently
does talks over the air for the Mother-
craft Association.


:
■
/l
■
; ■
: '-O-
I *
'■-****„.
BO
: i
0 0
-
MS
HR
: n
•*
0 : r.O
. 0
AN IDEAL PRESENT FOR A FRIEND
AND A MOST INTERESTING AND
EDUCATIONAL BOOK FOR CHILDREN.
“Zoo People”
A series of intimate, unusual and most delightful
Studies in Animal and Bird Portraiture repro-
duced by Photo-lithographic Printing, together
with informative paragraphs concerning the
subjects dealt with.
TWENTY-FOUR PAGES
PRICE
Obtainable only from
The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd.*
252 George Street, Sydney.
ALL STATES AND NEW ZEALAND.
(Saywell Buildings, 115 Lambton Quay, Wellington.!
n
■3«r'
:
. %
*v ' w: i
The Long White Cloud
Trans-Tasman News-views
It would take months of intensive bur-
rowing to ascertain how Maoriland is
really reacting to the legislative changes
wrought by the Savage Government.
Daily-newspaper critics, with a life-
time of “old-order” experience, are offer-
ing no quarter in slanging the Govern-
ment ; Labor’s weekly drips the sort of
blind enthusiasm that has colored Aus-
tralian Labor papers almost out of exis-
tence. Most of puzzled Maoriland is
still somewhere between these two
extremes.
The Labor “Standard” used streamers
to tell of the triumphal Savage tour ; the
dailies at different ports of call dis-
missed the visits casually—too casually
to satisfy anyone who knows what
Maoriland editors usually regard as
news. Further, there is a quaint regu-
larity about the way in which long
Chambers of Commerce criticisms bob
up the same day as some important
Labor announcement. Add these to the
same day’s editorial criticisms, and
Labor, in terms of column inches, is
overwhelmed.
Mr. Savage’s Government regarded
earlier castigation with equable mien,
but there has been a recent change of
front. The P.M. and several of his Min-
isters have openly declared they are not
being fairly reported, and that, quite
frequently, criticisms are founded on in-
accurate facts. Talking of proposals for
the development of national broadcast-
ing services, Mr. Savage recently sounded
this warning:
The time is near when we will have a
general news service that will place the
public beyond the influence of vested
interests. Let me put it like that —as
gently as I can.
That should interest more than the
Maoriland Newspaper Proprietors’ Asso-
ciation ; in the next few years Maoriland
should be as interesting for newspaper
and radio men as for students of poli-
tical economy.
“Xo”: An American cameraman, in
M.L. to do a series of Grantland Rice
“Sportslights,” winces at mention of big-
game fishing, a topic which has been
overdone. Trout-fishing, hardly novel to
Maorilanders but interesting overseas be-
cause of its varied scenic settings, is giv-
ing him his first job ; then he intends
shooting a few Rugby Union football
incidents as well as climbing a few
mountains. If the Minister of Internal
Affairs were to tell him of Maoriland’s
deer it is a safe bet that his news sense
would take him out with the “army”
permanently engaged in keeping down
the herds. The U.S.A. finds national
parks necessary to preserve the rem-
nants of its own deer.
* * # *
“Kohi”: Of the Maori “prophets”
mixed up with Maoriland history, Rua
was one of the most spectacular and, in
actual accomplishment, one of the most
insignificant. The emergence of these
religious leaders was the natural result
of the clash between old and new cul-
tures ; Christianity bred doubts about the
native gods, and yet there was a gap of
almost a generation before most natives
began to accept the new faith. During
this transition period, anyone clever
enough to incorporate the two faiths in
a single programme was assured of a
following of otherwise hesitant Maoris.
Te Ua, founder of the Hauhauism that
got out of hand and resulted in bloody
North Island wars, was one ; Te Kooti,
prophet as well as soldier, another; Te
Whiti, whose peaceful strategy won land
for his Taranaki people, and Ratana, the
faith-healer, who turned his people to
co-operative farming, were others. They
knew and quoted chunks of the Old
Testament —combining mystical consola-
tion with action. Rua, too, knew his
Bible, and at one time his followers wore
their hair in what they believed were
“Well, dear, THAT ought to make the tourists look at you”
Biblical bobs. He built a circular temple
in his Urawera stronghold which illus-
trated the warring of two cultures. While
its design faintly resembled a mosque
its exterior wall decorations were copied
from a pack of cards. Like the shrewd
fellow he was, Rua dealt himself the
ace of spades —the altar. Ratana, by
the way, is still a power in his village
south of Wanganui.
* * # *
“Cluny”: People who sport goose-
flesh when a cat strolls into sight will
quiver to learn that cats outnumber
humans in many Maoriland districts.
Authority for this is the journal of the
Forest and Bird Protection Society,
which is waging war on cats. It has esti-
mated that 10 birds a year is a conser-
vative kill for each cat and that a mil-
lion cats is a conservative total for
Maoriland.
* * * *
“Motu”: Land compensation claims
like the South Island one that originated
when Kemp bought the Ngaitahu
block in 1848 (B. 10/3/’37) cannot be
satisfactorily settled by distribution of a
Government payment among the descen-
dants of the Maoris concerned. A few
of the old chiefs made this point before
the Treaty Of Waitangi was signed;
blankets and axes, they maintained, wore
out, but land lasted for ever. Money pay
ments are dissipated in things that wear
out, but the land still lasts for ever.
Apirana Ngata inaugurated the Maori
land-settlement scheme with the object
of giving his people some permanent
compensation. Princess Te Puea He-
rangi led the Waikato Maoris in support
of the Ngata plan, and the scheme ad-
vanced until to-day there are 77 sepa-
rate development schemes, embracing
660,000 Maoriland acres. Native settlers
are. assisted by their department, and at
the end of March a year ago more than
£1,000,000 had already been spent. Ex-
penditure of this kind helps the natives
more than if the same amounts were
paid in final settlement of old compen-
sation claims.
$ * $ $
“Korero”: Opening of the tri-weekly
Nelson-Hokitika air extension (B.
17/3/’37) increases the total mileage of
regular M.L. services to about 2250
miles. The daily mileage is about 2000,
of which Union Airways ’planes flying
each way between Palmerston North and
Dunedin account for nearly half. Cook
Strait Airways machines, flying the Wel-
lington-Nelson run, total a daily mile-
age of 640. The East Coast Airways
two-way services between Gisborne and
Napier bump the daily mileage up an-
other 340. Hewett’s Air Travel machines
in Westland fly a two-way weekly ser-
vice over 145 miles. The regular route
mileage will be considerably increased
as soon as the Wellington-Auckland ser-
vice is inaugurated. Maoriland will then
require only minor feeders to give com-
plete internal air cover.
* * * *
“Hamish”: Talking of Maorilanders
bumping into relatives (B. 17/3/’37) re-
minds me of Squadron-Leader McGregor,
now dead, who was a competitor in the
Melbourne centenary air race. While
his machine was being filled with juice
at an Indian checking station, Mac
chatted with a helpful young R.A.F.
officer who, when Mac was taking-off
again, casually asked him to say hullo
to a Scot in Melbourne. One of the
newspapermen waiting for McGregor at
Laverton was a Maoriland cousin, and
in the ensuing reunion he was able to
deliver the message received in India.
But it wasn’t as much of a coincidence
as Mac thought at the time, because the
R.A.F. lad knew that the Melbourne
scribe, an old Maoriland school pal, was
one of Mac’s many relatives.
* * * *
“Mak”: Maoriland hopes to be an in-
ternational short-wave radio broadcaster
within a year, according to Prime Min-
ister Savage ; a powerful station is being
planned to transmit in more than one
language news of political developments
and scenic attractions. Propaganda short-
wave broadcasts are regular overseas fea-
tures, but broadcasting in Maoriland is
not yet of a high enough standard to
warrant a blind rush to the short-wave
circuit. Propaganda going overseas de-
mands deft handling and an Empire
policy. Local - industry -and - produce
statistics and tourist-catching twaddle
wouldn’t warrant the price of the trans-
mitting station.
* * £ *
“Colonel B.”: That genial soul the
late Dr. Maui Pomare had some de-
lightful stories of his efforts to hygienate
and modernise his fellow-countrymen.
Returning after a year’s absence abroad
to a locality where he had organised a
co-operative butter factory, he found the
final liquidation meeting just beginning.
Te chairman called on te treasurer for
his report. Te treasurer reported briefly
and to the point: “T’ere was forty pong.
I put te (plankard) in te pank.” He
sat down. A shareholder, after explain-
ing his personal needs due to the funeral
expenses of his brother’s wife’s sister’s
cousin, asked plaintively if there was any
chance of getting some of his money
back. Te treasurer arose with immense
dignity. “You poo’ iggerunt Maori,” he
thundered ; “wot you expec’ w’en I put
te (plankard) in te pank? Te plorry
interes’ eat ’im all up, of course!” And
that satisfied everyone.


DO YOU ENOW?
That the tone and range of all radio sets depend
largely upon the valves used?
Radiotron valves ensure good tcnal quality and
extreme range.
Install Radiotrons and observe the difference.
BADIOIRDNS
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS
(AUSTRALASIA) LTD.
47 York Street, Sydney
167-169 Queen Street, Melbourne
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL ELECTRIC
LIMITED
Sydney Melbourne Brisbane
Adelaide Hobart
V25.S
(Advertisement of Amalgamated Wireless Valve Co. Ltd.)
RADIO NEWS
DON B. KNOCK'S PAGES.
Advice for the Battery-set
User.
Many battery sets give trouble long
before they should. The first and most
important factor to be considered is the
filament source of voltage and current
supply. Although dry cells may be used
in special cases, most battery receivers
use accumulators of the six- or two-volt
variety. There are other kinds of cells
for “A” supply, such as the Carboncel
and the more recent Air-Cell, but these
are not in the same category as the
accumulator, and will not be touched
upon here. The buyer of a receiver de-
These components are the lifeblood of the countryman’s receiver. If they are
properly treated they will give long service. ,
signed for accumulator “A” supply gets
one accumulator. A second one should
always be bought at the same time, so
that one can be charging while the other
is in use.
Wherever possible, arrangements should
be made with the local dealer or
charging station to charge the. accu-
mulator at regular intervals, to be deter-
mined, of course, by the amount of use
the set is likely to have and the type of
set. The user should never give way to
the temptation to run the accumulator
until it is fully discharged. After a few
months’ use. he will know just when his
accumulator will be likely to peter out.,
and should get it to the charging station
well in advance of that stage. The
result Of running an accumulator until it
is flat is rapid internal deterioration,
which starts as soon as it is discharged
beyond a certain point. This point is
generally reached before there is any
noticeable reduction in signals, especi-
ally if one is listening to a strong local
station.
In some cases, a battery-set user may
be tempted to have only a small capa-
city accumulator, particularly where the
set is a small one with two-volt valves in
parallel. This is false economy. A high-
capacity accumulator is preferable to a
small one, whatever the application. It
is not a matter of voltage (or pressure),
but amperage (or quantity), which is the.
reason why accumulators are rated in
“ampere-hours.” The advantage of the
larger accumulator is unquestionable in
country districts a long way from charg-
ing stations.
Some battery sets have dial lights;
others have dial lights which come into
action only when required, and others
have no dial lights at all. Even the
smallest-rated dial bulbs use up current,
so for a set with an illuminated dial the
larger the accumulator the better.
Some people have the idea that accu-
mulators will keep their charge indefi-
nitely. On the contrary, if they are
allowed to stand for several months
without use they will not only lose the
charge gradually, but will deteriorate
badly as well. An accumulator which
is partly discharged will get into quite a
bad condition if left uncharged for even
a few weeks. Before leaving home for
a holiday, it is wise to take accumulators
to the charging station so that in the
interval they can be gradually fully
charged up.
So much for the “A” supply. The
“B” supply obtained from dry-cell bat-
teries does not come under the “charge-
able” heading. One can only take out
energy from the dry-cell battery, and
nothing can be replaced. This electrical
energy arises from chemical action, and
the battery blocks are made up of small
cells connected in series to give the re-
quired total voltage. Each cell delivers
1| volts. The amount of energy that
can be obtained from the B battery is
not a matter of pressure, but of the
amount of chemical compound in action
in the cells. B batteries should not be
bought on price alone, but fortunately
the temptation to get cheap nondescript
batteries is not so prevalent in Australia
as overseas. Australian B batteries of
the makes advertised in The Bulletin
can be thoroughly relied on.
There is a difference in B batteries, as
with accumulators, in quantity of energy
delivered. The important point is that
the larger batteries, having more avail-
able chemicals, are a much better invest-
ment than smaller batteries of the same
voltage. This is very important to those
outback. In no circumstances should
spare B batteries be kept in stock. There
is nothing to be gained and everything
to lose. Dry-cell batteries use up their
energy gradually even when not in use.;
that is why radio dealers obtain stocks
only as required. B batteries should be
fresh from the factory and put into use
as soon as possible,
Another point is that it pays to keep
the receiver in a position where cool air
can circulate around the B batteries, in
preference to being boxed up in an
enclosed place.
The grid bias or C battery, while an
unassuming part of a set, is not an item
to neglect. It has to deliver only a
minute current, but in time it will fall
below the necessary voltage, and loss of
reproduction or audio volume will be
noticed in the receiver. With a tapped
C battery, it is permissible, in some cases
to gradually reduce bias voltage as the
B batteries get to a lower voltage level,
but this should not be overdone. If, for
instance, a set runs normally at 135 volts
of B and an audio channel is biased at
nine volts, a drop in the B to around
110 volts would permit reducing the grid
bias to about six volts. Such an adjust-
ment should never be made with the
set in action, or valves are likely to
suffer.
To make sure of his B and C bat-
teries, the keen listener would do well
to obtain a high-resistance combination
voltmeter, and to run it over the bat-
teries at intervals of a month or so.
Such voltage measurements should be
made with the set in action. A B battery
may read 135 volts off load, but con-
siderably less under load. That means
that it should be watched carefully for
a sudden voltage drop, and if this is
accompanied by crackling or fizzing
sounds in the receiver it is time to re-
place the battery.
Another important point: Do not con-
nect partly discharged B batteries with
new ones. The old ones may be re-
sponsible for pulling down the new ones
long before their time. Replace the com-
plete B battery when the time arrives.
D.B.K.
The Romance of Short
Waves—1927-1937.
It is difficult to realise that short-wave
broadcasting is but ten years old. It was
on March 11, 1927, that possessors of
short-wave receivers heard for the first
time the chimes of Big Ben relayed
throughout the world by Philips experi-
mental broadcasting transmitter PCJ.T.
An impression of Edward Startz at the
PCI microphone.
In the control-room engineers wondered
how that broadcast was going over. In
a few hours cables told of reception of
the transmission at good strength in
many parts of the world, and later thou-
sands of reports were received from
short-wave listeners who had followed
the relay, their receivers mostly home-
built.
A few weeks later another successful
short-wave relay was carried out by
PCJJ —a broadcast by the Queen of Hol-
land.
The pioneer station PCJJ (later
PCJ) was closed down for a while, but
the new station PHI could not, even with
outstanding programmes, eclipse the
popularity of PCJ, which opened again
in 1934. Short-wave transmitters now
amount to hundreds, but PCJ and PHI
remain favorites. How popular they are
is reflected in the fact that their pro-
grammes are conducted in seven lan-
guages. Edward Startz, chief announcer,
can handle all seven fluently. His ver-
satility of tongue and cheery personality
—if you’re a short-wave listener you’ll
know his voice have made him a
favorite in many lands.
Around the World in l-7th of a Second.
That sounds fantastic, yet it is the
speed of radio waves, and is why the
listener can switch from China to Peru
in an instant, just by the turn of a knob.
There is a fascination about it which
never wanes.
Dual-wave receivers become increas-
ingly popular, because of the remarkable
improvement in volume provided by
more powerful stations, and also vastly-
increased clarity of reception. The
banishing of background noise has been
assisted by the octode valve, a develop-
ment of Philips laboratories.
Another inducement —for the majority
of listeners even more important—is the
quantity and quality of the entertain-
ment now on tap. But the short waves
are not merely a vehicle for entertain-
ment ; they are an educative power, bring-
ing a new perspective on world affairs.
The U.S.A. provides wide variety.
From England news of British affairs
comes from Daventry. Thousands
throughout the world hear the bulletins
read by W. M. Shewer, senior Empire
announcer, from Broadcasting House, in
the heart of London. Visiting artists
from the Dominions often broadcast
during the Empire orchestra sessions. To
Frenchmen overseas, France is Paris and
Paris is France, and the subtle atmo-
sphere of it is evoked by the programmes
of Radio Coloniale. It is the same every-
where ; every corner of the world is em-
braced in short-wave relays.
P.R.
All Round the Dial.
“Dial”: A young Brisbane radio tech-
nician, W. Clarkson, claims to have in-
vented a radio direction-finder which is
easy to operate, infallible and inexpen-
sive. The equipment tunes in to any
broadcasting station, and the pilot fol-
lows this signal, which is shown on a meter
on his dashboard. Thus a pilot flying
from Sydney can tune in to 4QG and fly
direct to Brisbane, or tune in to 4BC
and head for Oxley, which is near
Archerfield. In a recent test in rough
weather a ’plane was guided from Rock-
hampton to Oxley (500 miles) with this
simple equipment. Should his ’plane be
forced down the pilot can tune-in two
stations and draw bearings from them.
* * * *
“Dali”: Fifteen of the mission stations
and Government posts scattered over the
islands of Torres Strait and the Gulf of
Carpentaria and on the mainland of
N.Q., as well as the Government ketch
Melbidir, which operates in contiguous
waters, are being provided with radio.
The central radio station will be at
Thursday Island.
* * * *
“Kahu”: Maoriland’s commercial
broadcasting station has been running a
personality quest to find a performer


RADIO BARGAINS.
Philips Eliminators 10/-, 12/6, 15/-; Philips Audio
Transformers 10/- A.W.A. 6/-, others from 3/-.
Lightning Arrester and Switch, 6d. Variable
Condensers from 2/-. Reinartz Coils 1/6. Valves:
6-volt Battery, 6/-; A.C., 227, 3/6; 224, 4/6;
<2, ®/-J 6A7 7/6; 687, 7/6; 2A6, 6/-. Cord Grip
Holders, 3d. All tested and guaranteed. Add postage.
RADIO SUPPLY STORES,
7 ROYAL ARCADE. SYDNEY.
RADIOKES
VIBRATOR
Radiokes PERFECTED Vibrator—easy to instal-
marvellously economical—loo% satisfactory. Saves
you money on batteries. Suitable for ANY battery
set. £6/6/-. Voltage Divider Unit, 15/-.
Write to Radiokes, Ltd., Sydney, for free illustrated
literature NOW.
BEFORE YOU PACK
YOUR BACS..UNWRAP
YOUR HOUDAY SAFETY
DUNLOP
n : i;p3fgg||igiig
rerariati
WfFTI CCC r ftDfl TVB F<>
JmF Bi IlitSkJ# LLJHIJ ITHCa
„ j/ott
7 „ p ( ,rdria n ‘jLstiwJ V ro ~
i Dunlop if ”, jfustc —[ iroadcattiny
i J j j. 1/o ur .
Worn and gripless tyres are the worst of holiday companions
-—they play all sorts of nasty tricks. First move in the planning
of a carefree Easter tour should be to have new Dunlop or
Perdriau Weftless Cord Tyres out of their wrappings and on
your wheels. Choose Dunlop or Perdriau—not only for fullest
measure of safety—but for economy. When you get down
to facts, when you check basic constructional features, you’ll
find that, in comparison with ordinary tyres, Dunlop or Perdriau
do save you money. It’s very simple—just a matter of
longer mileage—provided by these exclusive features—advan-
tages which other tyres cannot offer . . .
The 12% cooler running and 52% longer casing life
given by Weftless Cord. (An improvement ex-
clusive to Dunlop interests in Australia).
The 48% greater non-skid mileage provided by
pounds more and tougher rubber in the treads.
capable of startling Australian listeners.
Some of the competitors have been only
middling, but others could be guaranteed
to startle Eskimos. One informed “his
public” that' there are 342 song birds in
Australia and proceeded to imitate each
one in turn. The announcer knocked
him when he paused for breath after the
first dozen or two, but his protests,
though diminuendo, could be heard till
the door shut. If this lad should head
the field, Australia is in for a treat and
ornithologists for a liberal education.
What's What in Radio.
In television’s first outside broadcast
of a competitive event in London viewers
saw contests in a tournament staged by
the Alexandra Palace amateur boxing
club. The television camera was mounted
on a platform less than 12ft. from the ring
and connected to the 8.8. C. control-
room by 250 ft. of cable. Lighting was
arranged so that viewers could have
glimpses of the commentators and on-
lookers as well as of the contestants.
* * * *
Radio enthusiasts who are also stamp
collectors are not likely to miss the
French P.M.G.’s issues of a series of
stamps bearing the heads of General
Ferrie and Edouard Branly, French
radio pioneers.
First U.H.F. Mobile Day.
Sunday, March 7, was the date set for
big mobile activity on five-metre com-
munication over the country out from
Sydney, but heavy rain interfered. The
Wireless Institute’s (N.S.W.) division con-
trol station proceeded to Kurrajong in
the afternoon ; VK2OD established his
station at Government House, Sutton
Forest, and the Waverley Club, VK2BV,
had a car station in action around Pen-
nant Hills. The Kurrajong station put
a strong signal into Sydney, as did
VK2BP, at Hazelbrook, Blue Mountains.
Early in the morning, a special C.W.
schedule was kept between VK2NO,
VK2LZ and VK2GU (the latter in Can-
berra).
No success is reported from either end
in this attempt to cover the difficult
country between Sydney and the Federal
Capital, but Cox, of VK2GU, reports
some interesting observations. He heard
three times the harmonic of Maorilander
ZLICK, who was working on 10 metres
with Americans; yet, though the Ameri-
cans were stronger than M.L. on 10
metres, no harmonics were logged from
across the Pacific. He considers this
definite proof that the signals picked up
on the five-metre band were actually
radiated as a harmonic and came across
on five metres. ZLs, please note. It
seemed clear that conditions were favor-
able for five-metre communication with
M.L. The time was between 11 a.m.
and noon (E.S.T.).
VK2GU radiates 50 watts into a
special beam aerial from an 800 doubling
to five, but is awaiting two Radiotron
808’s to complete the transmitter. Be-
tween 5.30 and 6.15 p.m. (E.S.T.) Cox
also heard an R 7 harmonic from JNJ at
the top of the band, which goes to show
that DX on five metres is possible, just
as with 10 metres. He heard nothing
of the mobile stations around Sydney.
D.B.K.
A Five-metre Field Day.
Inclement weather having wrecked the
organised five-metre field day of the
W.I.A. (N.S.W. div.) a week-end pre-
viously, the programme was carried
through on Sunday, March 14, with some
slight variation but outstanding success.
In view of the outcome, congratulations
are due to the chairman and secretary
(VKs 2JU and 2VN) for their thorough
efforts in preparing all details. History
was made in bridging the distance be-
tween a location near Newcastle (N.S.W.),
The Jib, near Bowral (N.S.W.), and
Sydney.
The stations participating in the official
programme were:
VK2WI —On Kurrajong Mountain (control).
VK2BP —Hazelbrook, Blue Mountains.
VK2BV —Mobile (undetermined location).
VK2JU —The Jib, Bowral.
VK2LZ —Crow’s Nast, Sydney.
VK2NO —Waverley, Sydney.
VK2OD —Hurlstone Park, Sydney.
VK2TX—Norah Head, N.S.W.
VK2UV —Hawkesbury Lookout, N.S.W.
VK2ZC—Sugarloaf Mountain, Newcastle,
N.S.W.
After the official check-in of these
stations the air was free to any other
station on the five-metre band desiring
to participate. It' says a great deal for the
spirit of co-operation shown in response
to the writer’s appeals that no local in-
terference was noticed in most Sydney
locations. While each station on the
roster checked in, all stations other
than the one due to be on the air rigidly
observed the arrangement to remain
silent.
Although during the prescribed calling
period nothing was heard at VK2NO of
VK2JU up on The Jib, he was located at
2.10 p.m. in contact with the control,
VK2WI. His signal was QSAS R5/6,
and he was then worked briefly from
VK2NO at 2.35 p.m. with a similar re-
port. This contact and the chance of
others were wrecked at the Waverley end
by ignition interference in the eight-valve
superhet from the surf-patrol aeroplane
circling over the Bronte, Coogee and
Bondi beaches.
This short contact between Bowral
and Sydney was the first on five-metre
telephony. In 1927 A2DY and A2IJ
made a five-metre contact over this route
on C.W. telegraphy. Several other
stations, including VK2WI and VK2BP,
contacted The Jib station during the after-
noon, and, as was anticipated, North
Sydney stations were heard more easily.
An interesting feature was that VK2JU
reported hearing a telegraphy station at
the high-frequency end of the band. This
was VK2EM, of Darling Point, Sydney
—a further illustration of efficiency of
the Bruce array, for VK2EM is using
15 watt's and is at water level fronting
Sydney Harbor, and there is no question
of visible range. Meanwhile, VK2BP was
hearing both VK2ZC and VK2TX at
R3/4, but could not attract attention.
Better results were expected between
Hazelbrook and Sugarloaf, for the range
is almost optical.
The surprise of the day came at 3.50
p.m. when the writer received a land-
line call from VK2EL, of Vaucluse,
Sydney. • Apparently VK2ZC had taken
a portable 40-metre station up the moun-
tain additionally to five-metre gear, for
he had worked with VK2EL on 40 to
the effect that VK2NO had been R 6 all
afternoon at both Sugarloaf and Norah
Head. At 4 p.m. the writer called and
listened for both stations, and continued
for over 20 minutes, but incessant aero,
ignition interference defeated reception
of any but the strongest signals. A weak
carrier, evidently that of VK2ZC, on the
same frequency as VK2NO, was heard,
but not identified. Later VK2XK, of
Maroubra, Sydney, succeeded in working
with VK2TX at Norah Head.
Though two-way five-metre contact
between Sydney and the Newcastle dis-
trict was unsuccessful, the fact that the
Newcastle station heard VK2NO strongly
all afternoon shows what is possible.
Portable Bruce arrays are strongly
recommended from now on for mobile
field days. An array with a concen-
trated beam at one end has shown the
way. With one at both ends, long-dis-
tance success is a certainty.
This work of N.S.W. five-metre
amateurs on 14/3/’37 goes further. It
shows that there is definitely no reason
why aviation beams cannot cover Sydney
to Newcastle on ultra-shorts. Stations
with directional arrays on elevated points
can certainly bridge the gap, and such
results can assuredly be bettered with
high power, from which amateurs are
barred. There is no great obstacle to
beam arrays on mountain tops —it is just
a matter of feedlines from the station at
a convenient lower position where cabled
power is available. The strong signal
received consistently on Sugarloaf Moun-
tain emanated from a “back-garden”
beam array at Waverley, not particu-
larly clear of surrounding objects. Trans-
mitting power at VK2NO did not exceed
50 watts input.
D.B.K. (VK2NO).
The Question Box.
Full name and address must accompany all
queries. Write legibly to avoid confusion in
addresses, etc.
Intending to buy a kit-set I had in mind
one marketed here in M.L. at £7 10s., but it
being an old model I presume that I could
obtain something more up to date and de-
signed for use with metal valves. What do you
suggest ? —520.
Write Radiokes, Ltd., Tracy House, Cleve-
land-street, Redfern (N.S.W.), for particulars
of the latest kit-sets, which are designed for
use with metal valves and are fitted with Sirufer
core coils. Auckland or Wellington agents
could probably supply.


HITS
LYS
k
ROOF
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in every
Roll of Netting .
Fencing Wire
m
mi WiippMMßmih
‘ ' ■
: fifl *s** .
rapa?* ,♦>>
J7.J K, j.
%
' y *
‘•■V;
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Brothers & Co., Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street, Sydney
SPECIFY "LYSAGHT'S" WIRE, WIRE NETTING, ETC>
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
THE STUFF TO GIVE'EM
MEGGITTS LINSEED MEAL.
Eye Trouble in Sheep.
“Ghanam”: There are two common
kinds of eye disease in sheep:, one is
simple inflammation of the mucous mem-
branes, the other affection of the whole
of the eye structures. Usually the first
is caused by some foreign body, and if
this be removed the worst is over, but
the other may develop so seriously as to
cause the loss of the sheep ; it is infec-
tious, generally carried from sheep to
sheep by flies.
If the affection is caused by a foreign
body, this should be removed with a
pair of small forceps ; if these are not
available, a feather, after immersion in
boiling water for a few minutes, may do
the job. Suffering animals should” be
placed in a dark shed, and the eye should
be cleaned with boracic or common salt
solution —two teaspoons to one pint warm
water. The eyelids should be smeared
with boracic or zinc ointment and the
skin below the eye with lard or vaseline ;
this stops scalding.
A good lotion to keep handy for put-
ting in with an eye-dropper is five grains
zinc sulphate in loz. distilled water ( for
a bad case use 2gr. silver nitrate in loz.
distilled water.
With valuable sheep, a shade over the
eye, made to stand well out' from the
eye itself, will help considerably. Every
sheep affected should have an opening
drench.
Some still favor blowing lime or
baking soda into the eye. Anyone game
to have this tried on himself first will
readily agree that it’s a poor sort of
“cure.”
Shearing Shorthanded.
“Bungaree”: The instances quoted by
“G.” (B. 10/3/’37) have no bearing on
the universal tally, but they do illustrate
the false economy of cut shearing rates.
Even if the u.t. were introduced, those
who try to get their shearing done
cheaper than anyone else in the district
could retaliate on the slower rate of
shearing by engaging fewer shedhands.
“G.” does not make it clear whether
there were three shedhands in addition
to himself as. classer in his three-stand
shed. If so, he must have had a nice
holiday. The other man —classing, roll-
ing and piece-picking for three —was ad-
mittedly overworked, but a staff of two
is, regrettably, the rule rather than the
exception for three shearers. Such a job
is usually undertaken by young classers
in search of experience or budding con-
tractors, and the work is often reflected
in the owner’s returns.
In signing shearing contracts, owners
should stipulate for 100 p.c. shedhands,
or at least enough to handle the wool
thoroughly and allow the classer to do
justice to the clip. If the classer is ex-
pected to do shedhand work besides his
own duties, it should not interfere with
his main job. He should be a classer
first and do any extra work in the re-
maining time, if any.
“C.V.S.”: Australia pays more atten-
tion to the get-up of its wool than any
other country, but even here the work
is sometimes slurred by “economising”
owners or contractors trying to cut Id.
per head off shearing costs.
It seems to me that the universal tally
would bring no improvement, as the
number of shedhands would fall with
the tally. A fast shearer is almost in-
variably a good shearer; a slick shed-
hand is a good shedhand, but he has his
limitations. A shearer has no specified
amount of work to do, and must satisfy
the “boss of the board” ; a piece-picker
or woolroller must handle the wool
coming to him, whatever the amount.
I have seen piece-pickers handling, or
rather dumping, 16 bales of pieces per
man per day, and in small, Queensland
sheds I have even met the presser-cook!
The remedy lies with the grower, who
should insist on an adequate number of
shedhands being employed. Although
“Have any trouble getlin' waler, Jacky?"
"By Cri , yes! to pullum dead bullock outer hole first!"
the number should vary according to the
pace of the team, usually one shed-
hand to each shearer is needed to do
the job properly.
Rugging Experience.
From Westralian Farmers, Ltd.:
Though the M.O.L. Page has dealt with
sheep-rugging problems, we are anxious
to collect further detailed records of ex-
perience and to learn of definite results
under reliable conditions—particularly re-
garding the servicing of ewes while rugged.
Some graziers hold that rams will not
serve rugged ewes ; other opinion con-
flicts with this.
Need 1 for Lamb Uniformity.
“Rom Ney”: C. F. G. McCann, S.A.
Trade Commissioner in the U.K., has
declared Australian lamb to be equal in
quality to that from Maoriland; the
Enzedders, he says, win because of their
uniformity of grading and excellent pub-
licity.
Describing a Smithfield exhibit of
M.L. lamb (450 Downs cross carcasses)
as apparently “moulded by machinery,
so uniform was the conformation,” he
added that, Australia produces Downs
crosses just as good—in fact, they are
even “brighter in final bloom, stand up
to cold storage better, and look more
attractive.” But three of the largest re-
tail butchers refuse to have any but
M.L. lamb in their shops, because they
can rely on quality and grading being
uniform, and because they automatically
share in a publicity campaign yielding
substantial results.
* •, f - r ■ ■ ’
Sheep Drenches.
“Hadenlee”: To “Ghanam’s” sheep-
drenching. suggestions (B. 3/3/’37) I
would add that bluestone and nicotine
sulphate can, be given in a much smaller
dose with a little stronger solution quite
safely and effectively.
I drenched 1200 four-tooth ewes with
the following and didn’t lose a sheep:
16 fluid oz. nicotine sulphate (Black Leaf
40).
11b. bluestone snow.
, 3gal. water.
Dose.—loz. for grown sheep,
foz. for two-tooths!
\oz, for lambs six months to 12
months.;
Tpz. for lambs under six months.
It is most important not to give more
than the prescribed dose.
Do not starve the sheep before drench-
ing, but hold them back for about four
hours afterwards.
Mulga as Fodder.
“Sheepo”: If mulga was of little ac-
count to graziers in W.A. during the
recent drought (B. 3/3/’37), the same
cannot be said of it in western Queens-
land. It has proved itself time and again.
With good watering facilities, mulga is
a certain standby, so much so that there
is grave danger of its being wiped out
in many districts.
Provided.' sheep are put on mulga
before they become too low in condi-
tion, they will, if waters are not too far
apart, be. all'right for months. I know
instances of sheep having existed for
two years on mulga and water, and, at
the breaking of the drought, being in
better condition than many fed artifi-
cially at a cost of 30s. a head. The per-
centage of deaths during the. drought
was less.
Making Calcium Arsenite.
“Ghanarh’: Calcium arsenite is easy
enough to make for jetting purposes.
Put four 4-gal. kerosene-tins of water
on the fire. Place 41b. white arsenic
and caustic soda in each of four
other tins. Pour half of each tin of
water as it comes to the boil into one
of the other tins and put the second tins
on the fire to continue boiling.
Use the remaining water in each of
the first tins to slake 41b. of lime, which
should be stirred in a pound at a time.
Pour the milk of lime when fully slaked
into the ‘ arsenic-caustic tin as it boils
quietly. Leave the complete mixture to
simmer for quarter of an hour.
Sixteen gallons of mixture will make
160 gallons of 1 p.c. arsenic jetting solu-
tion, which can be kept for months in
properly-sealed drums.
This method of making is recom-
mended by the N.S.W. Agricultural De-
partment.
The Carrier Menace.
“Ghanam”: All animals which have
apparently recovered from pleuro may
be carriers; also, all animals which have
had contact with pleuro cattle. The
pleuro victim is better dead, for every-
body’s sake.
With contagious mammitis, cows that
are irregular in milking for no particu-
lar cause and seem to be weak in one
quarter should go on the doubtful list.
Contagious pneumonia in swine is
harder to detect. The pig with the patchy
lung may eat like a gourmand and grunt
like a bull buffalo as long as his fodder
is right and his surroundings clean. But
give him a dirty pen and poor food and
he not only makes a beeline for the Styx
but takes a lot of friends with him.
Cleanliness and healthy water and nour-
ishment are the best protections against
this disease.
Blood tests will soon convict the abor-
tion, carrier and milk tests the mammitis
harborer. With valuable herds, such
scientific tests are well worth while.
New Dehorning Method.
“Zedo”: S’Africa has evolved a new
dehorning treatment with calves which
seems to have great promise.
The calf is placed on its right side.
Two assistants extend the legs, and one
then kneels behind the animal, with his
left knee on its neck, the head being
gently bent upwards while the animal’s
jaws are held with the left hand. The
hair is cut away with the right hand
from round the horn buds, and these are
burnt with a copper bolt hollowed at
one end. There are no sensitive spots
round the buds which burning might
permanently injure, so the burn can be
done thoroughly. It makes a clean job,
and no further attention is needed,
though a little oil does no harm.
The most usual age for doing the job
is one month, but calves have been


Truck - world gossip-
ee
This
INTERNATIONAL
is the best investment
Fve ever made”
:
mwmm “For swift, safe, economical,
trouble-free transport I can rely
on the International — a true truck-built job
— I’ve proved it by carefully checking its
daily work . . . Its earning power lias paid
off its capital cost twice over, and I see years
of service in it yet- —heaps of solid profit
over and above the mere modicum of run-
ning expenses. In my opinion — and I ve
had a lot of experience —- an International
truck is the best investment wheels can
carry.”
International trucks hold the blue ribbon of the
merchant service of the roads. Light delivery 9
medium and heavy-duty units — every model a
masterpiece.
The comprehensive International range
includes the following models:
Utilities and J-ton vans (113 and 125-in.
wheelbases).
20-cwt., 136-in. wheelbase.
30-cwt., 133 and 157-in. wheelbases.
35-cw r t., 133 and 157-in. wheelbases.
2- 160-in. wheelbase.
3- 155 and 185-in. wheelbases.
4- 156, 170 and 185-in. wheelbases.
5- 190-in. wheelbase.
Also Six-wheelers from 3 to 10-ton capaci-
ties in various wheelbases.
Chassis Prices from £277
(plus tax)
Call on us for full information on any truck
in the International line.
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER
OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
(incorporated IN victoria),
BRISBANE SYDNEY MELBOURNE ADELAIDE
COMPANY
< PERTH
BUY AN
, ,I fl
:
i.?■■'/■ ><v.ivf. 5£... y/- ;■
l
'
Itlttliiiii
:
the World’s Best Truck Investment
treated successfully on the day of birth,
Chief essentials are a thoroughly hot iron
and a firm hold.
_
Need Strawberry be “Stripped” ?
“Bahb Dwyer”: Two investigators of
thc U.S.A. Dairy Industry Bureau say
“no” —or, at any rate, disapprove of the
popular idea that leaving some milk in
the udder causes rapid drying-off.
Fourteen cows were tested over at
least two lactation periods. Seven were
first milked completely (milking machines
plus “stripping”) for one lactation period,
and then milked incompletely (machines
had'"process' reversed
me quanfhy P of milkTft in '.he udder
from an incomplete milking varied with
different cows, the average being 1.21 b.
Careful computation showed that 53 p.c.
of the milk left in the udder was com-
pletely lost, the balance being recovered
at subsequent milkings.
The extra time spent in stripping
aggregated five hours per cow per lac-
tation, and the question boiled down to
whether the extra milk warranted the ad-
ditional labor cost. The investigators
concluded that', under ordinary condi-
tions, it did, but added that the time often
spent in getting the last drop from a re-
luctant cow was not only unjustified but
quite unnecessary, as test did not sup-
port the idea that failing to strip sent a
cow dry more quickly than if stripped out.
much more important point was
that the incomplete milking did not
apprecia bi y affect the butterfat content of
nk The last milk is usua lly richer
t first , but possibly when the
are incompletely milked a levelling-
down takes place, ami fte Bulkleft in.the
udder is muc
out - - . ,
Another finding was that neither
method of milking made any difference
to mastitis or other udder infections. In
the early part of the experiments, cows
were stripped by hand after the machine
cups had been removed. This method
was discontinued, it being discovered that
massaging the udder at the end of milk-
ing had the. same effect. The method of
massaging was to pull down on the cups
and at the same time gently squeeze the
lower part of the udder.
Photo-sensitisation in Cattle.
“Mookau”: Some of Australia’s finest
stud beef Shorthorns have been whites,
including the rare white cows of Milton
Park and those of both sexes in the
Angas herds. But there is always a pre-
judice against them for station use,
though it is impossible, even if advis-
able, to breed all reds and roans.
The reason is a belief that white cattle
burn badly, though actually burning de-
pends largely on the nature of the
animal, and the results are not nearly as
serious as many believe. Moreover,
photo-sensitisation affects white-patched
cattle as much as it does pure whites,
and all cattle with unoigmented skin
patches are likely to suffer towards the
end of a long summer. Pasture has
something to do with it. Animals that
are rationally fed and have healthy skins
may not be affected. Those fed on pas-
tures overrich in nitrogen —clovers, tre-
foils and lucerne—are most often
victims.
Usually where the trouble is true
photo-s., and not sun-scald, the first
signs are a falling off in milk flow in
dairy cows. A serum oozes out on the
white patches of the animal’s body,
clotting on the hair like heavy perspira-
tion. Lips and nostrils become inflamed
and the patient presently begins to wilt
generally. The skin peels, the tissue
underneath it grows dry and leathery.
If treatment is delayed, there is nothing
for it but to carry out a quiet execution.
At the first signs give a saline drench,
lead the victim to a new and shady pas-
ture, and change the feed; if hand-
feeding is necessary, damp the fodder.
Cover all white patches on the body,
(Continued on page 44.)


ķ
A Quality Shoe
at an Everyday
Price
Here’s a Shoe that’s made
for the man who wants good
value for his money.
Strong and pliable, with a
design that can be worn with
confidence practically any
time.
Made in a Dark Brown Calf
and a Black Box Calf in full
and half sizes.
Black Calf, 257-
Brown Calf, 25/-
Write for a Catalogue.
ABBEY SHOES
316 George St., 224 Pitt St.,
SYDNEY.
Telegraphic Address:
“ABBEY BOOTS, SYDNEY."-
wMrfmo/ft
tfrrn,
-S?
<s^
m
<s>
■' v v.
“V
There is always a real risk of loss attached to carrying large
quantities of money when travelling. Travellers possessed of a
Letter of Credit or of Travellers’ Gheques, issued by the National
Bank, are freed from this risk, and are assured of facilities for
financing their journeys with the utmost safety and ease. The
Bank’s Travel Service will promptly attend to Bookings, Taxation
Clearances, Passports, and many other details of travel. Write
or call for full particulars.
The NATIONAL BANK
cJjjnltecl.
Branches Throughout Australia
21/12/35
SHEEPOWNERS
ĸ
FIRE
AND
TAR
BRANDS
MADE
TO
ORDER.
vfl;
SEND
FOR
ILLUSTRATED
CATALOGUE.
Baker’s Special
Design Dagging
and Bottle Out-
fit. Contains
Shear, Stone
and Bottle.
23 / 6
Postage, 1/3.
Ask to see the new Sloping Jaw
Bloodless EMASCULATOR.
70/-
Postage 1/6 extra.
No. 435. —Baker’s Improved Lamb Clam,
13'6
W. JNO. BAKER Ltd
3 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY,
ffuf&ulleivrL
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
LUCK
VI
IT
a
ALL
W WANT
whether affected or not, with boracic
ointment mixed with lard and enough
lampblack to shut out sunlight.
If the trouble has reached an advanced
stage, wash the sore parts with lysol—
one tablespoon to two quarts warm water
—before putting the ointment on.
Cure takes a long time, and treatment
must be continued until healing looks
as if it is complete.
Perennial Wheat.
“Salmon Gums”: Perennial wheat may
provide the remedy for soil erosion. The
plant', which has the seed of ordinary
wheat and the long-lived roots of grasses,
is being experimented with in Canada,
and specimens are growing on Westra-
lian Government Research Farms. So
far, the seed obtained is useless for
marketing, but the plant is regarded as
a good fodder crop.
The seeds, being large, would add
considerably to the value of the crop as
hay. They can be drilled into loose
ground where small seed, being sown
shallow, would drift away with the top
soil.
N.S.W. Wheat Varieties.
“Hortus”: Among early arrivals of
f.a.q. medium strong and strong flour
white wheats Pusa received praise from
English experts. Bushel weight, 67jlb.
(very good); moisture (loss in oven at
lOOdeg. C.), 10.88 p.c.; nitrogen, 2.62
p.c. (equal to 14.93 p.c. protein—an
amazingly good figure, higher than the
best Canadians); approximate maltose
figure, 2.20 p.c. (quite high); dough
qualities, stability figure 105 (very pro-
nounced), general strength figure 100
(comparable with the strongest Cana-
dians).
General dough characteristics were
very pleasing and strong. The dough
had excellent stability, combined with
good spring. If anything, it was a little
too tough.
Gular is coming to the fore. It is a
very early-maturing wheat, with short,
fine, though fairly strong straw. It stools
well for a wheat of such early maturity,
filling three or four grains in the spikelet.
Gular has given a yield of 53 bushels
to the acre in Gilgandra (N.S.W.) dis-
trict. . It is a small, hard' white, some-
what lighter than the dark vitreous grain
of Dundee and Baringa. It is not worth
wasting time or labor on Gular outside
the worth-western slopes, the drier parts
of central-western slopes, the western
plains and Western Riverina.
Gular is rather susceptible to flag smut,
but so are Waratah, Aussie and Can-
berra. Gular is superior in baking qual-
ity to all varieties at present grown in
N.S.W. with the exception of Pusa 4
which is saying a lot. Also, its yield is
good, and there’s a good chance of ob-
taining a slightly better average price
than f.a.q., if accepted as hard wheat
at country silos.
There is about quarter of a million
acres of very early-maturing wheats in
N.S.W. Gular could well take the place
of most of this group with advantage to
growers.
Oats on Stubble.
“Nabawa”: Oats in rotation with
wheat is good farming practice for
several reasons, chief being the check
on “take-all” in the paddock.
Sowing methods vary, but the com-
bine plants shallow and makes a mod-
erately compact seedbed. Sometimes the
machine isn’t suitable, especially if the
oats are being sown on wheat stubble
and the stubble, is long. A one-way disc
with a seed and fertiliser box mounted
on it should then be used. Boxes can
be obtained with force feeds similar to
those on the. combine.
Tests have proved the value of using
a mixture of equal parts of super, and
ammonium sulphate when the oats are
sown on wheat stubble.
Desuckering Bananas.
“Lady’s Finger”: Every parent banana
sends off a lot of suckers, and some of
these must be. regarded as female chil-
dren are on the Hoang-Ho River.
Those which come up in the centre of
stools, those with broad leaves and an
umbrella formation, and the small weak
ones which cling to the stumps of the
corm all need to come out. The sound-
est are those with the largest bulbs and
those which grow furthest from their
parents; also, those having the most
pointed or the narrowest leaves.
The job calls for a special gouge, an
instrument which looks like a much-
elongated trowel, with a long narrow
blade tapering to a sharply-rounded
point. This should be pushed well down
into the bulb of the sucker at a 30deg.
angle, and then turned in two move-
ments, right and left, to complete a cut-
ting circle. If there is danger of dam-
aging a neighbor sucker, the gouge can
be pushed down into the heart of the
unwanted sucker and used with a bor-
ing motion till only the shell remains.
A Cane Problem.
“R.W.D.”: Though a small army of
chemists have for years been seeking the
exact cause of Fiji disease in cane, it
still remains to a great extent shrouded
in mystery.
The. disease —in appearance and effect
resembling bunchy-top in bananas —is
not serious in most varieties, but it
threatens extinction of the most valuable
variety of all, P.O.J. 2878, ratoon crops
of which have to be extensively “rogued,”
while many acres of roots have to be
ploughed out after the plant cutting.
Curiously, healthy, luxuriant crops are
attacked in preference to weedy crops.
One discovery has emerged from ex-
periments: that' the leaf-hopper—a small
and innocent-looking bug with a flea-
like method of propulsion—has a lot to
do with the spread of the disease. This
has been proved repeatedly by placing
leaf-hoppers on rigidly-isolated healthy
stools, which almost invariably become
affected. The question that is now giv-
ing the chemists headaches is whether the
’hopper carries some hobgoblin which
defies detection by the super-microscope,
or whether he himself, by sucking at the
leaf-veins, sets up a chemical action that
brings about the disease.
Hints for the Farm.
“M.L.W.”: For horse-mange try giv-
ing the horse three washings with a mix-
ture of lib. lime and lib, sulphur boiled
for two hours in sgal. water. When
the third washing has dried, rub carron
oil into the hair. Add boiled linseed
generously to the feed to improve the
coat.
“Rockless”: Two main causes of hand-
piece trouble at shearing or crutching are
too much tension and too little oil. if
the nut is screwed down overtightly, the
direct results are overheating of the
handpiece and excessive vibration. This
leads to bad workmanship by forcing the
shearer to grip the machine too tightly.
New-type handpieces require less tension
than the old machines. Give any hand-
piece as much oil as it will hold and
keep up the supply. Oil is cheaper than
duplicates, and a few seconds’ use of the
oilcan will save many trips to the expert’s
room.
“P.”: A simple cold-weather ointment
for cows’ teats is one drachm of oxide
of zinc mixed with one ounce of vaseline.
“Strawberry”: A well-balanced milk-
ing-cow ration should have about one
part protein to five or six of carbo-
hydrates. A cow in milk needs 21b.
roughage to every 1001 b. liveweight, or
lib. roughage and 31b. silage. Dry cows
do not need so heavy a protein ratio—
-1 protein to 12 parts carbohydrates is
enough. A dry cow weighing, say, 9001 b.
needs about .71b. crude digestible pro-
tein, 71b. digestible carbohydrates and
lib. fat—solb. of paspalum or silage
would fill the bill.


jjnoNOSiod-Noirj
DURALASTIC
ZINC PAINT
Non-poisonous Made in 26 Durable Colors.
This household paint is manufactured by
modern methods, finely ground in powerful mills to
perfect smoothness, giving maximum covering power and
an evenness of color —flowing freely from the brush, it is
a pleasure to work with.
NO BETTER PAINT
IS MADE AT
THIS PRICE
Sold by all Paint Dealers in
City and Suburbs.
Queensland:
Crouch, Connah & Gordon Pty.,
Ltd., Brisbane.
Being made with Genuine Linseed Oil and
Specially-tested Pigments on a Zinc Base,
a durable, bright surface is ensured.
Harbutt
Paint
Pty., Ltd.
18'-
PER GALLON
Godfrey and O’Riordan Streets,
Alexandria, Sydney.
Western Australia:
J. H. Wilberforce & Co., Perth.
lPi-?
To:
(Made in England)
m
u Rushmere ”
A delightful and original conception, con-
sisting of circular bands of two shades of
brown—shades that are distinctive by their
delicate colorings—on a cream ground.
Superimposed on this is the humble rush—
giving a dignity and grace of line that is
exclusive.
Available in 32-piece
dinner sets or 46-piece
utility sets also
coffee, salad and
supper sets, teapots,
etc., etc.
k
"The Dawn”
A modernistic treatment. Broad green
band, with black dontil ecge and
yellow line, whilst behind a conventional
tree is the rising sun.
Attractive and appealing to the people
of taste.
Obtainable at all high-class stores. Name of nearest distributor will be sent on application.
trm
SOLE WHOLESALE AGENTS
G.P.O. Box 1389 J, Sydney.
Telephone: M 4097.
And Commerce House,
Melbourne, C.l.


ADAMS’ (TATTERSALL’S) HOTEL,
259 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 484 GEORGE STREET.
Rooms, 6/- and 8/- per day; Breakfast, Table d’Hote or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE PUBLIC DINING ROOMS.
Lunch from 12 noon (Sunday, 12.45 p.m.), Dili ner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday, 5.45 p.m.).
Tables or Seats may be reserved by ’Phone. M 4601,
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BrtISBANE
Directors— James Love, Esq. (Chairman); W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan.
F. E. Loxton, Esq. ; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq.. O.M.G.
General Manager—M. G. HAYMEN. _
With offices at London, Canberra (.f ederal Territory) Melbourne, Sydney,
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. YVales, a Jf° h * ep this
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia a " d Lg’ineM
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banging o _
Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Youth (17), Sydney, bright, intelligent, lite-
rary aspirations, two years’ copy-boy with
Sydney daily, would like to hear of suitable
opening.—5071.
Young lady, Sydney, typist, used to authors’
MSS., wants work.—4999.
Young man (24), four years’ freelance broad-
casting exp., trained in microphone technique,
radio advertising and journalism, and capable
of writing plays, sketches and stories suitable
for radio presentation, wants position on city
or country broadcasting station or in radio
department of an advertising agency anywhere
in Australia. —5032.
Married man, Sydney, conveyancing and
general legal exp., wants position in country
solicitor’s office. —5035.
Two young men (18 and 17), Q’land, want
positions in Sydney, latter preferring position
connected with radio. —5015.
Accountant-manager (36), N.S.W., general
business in Riverina town, 12 years present
position, do buying and control accounts, seeks
similar position in the interests of family’s
health and education. —5008.
To buy a Ridgway’s “Color Chart.” —5043.
Information Sought.
(1) Record single innings total for first-class
cricket, by what side and when? (2) For Test
matches ? (3) Did a side ever exceed a thou-
sand runs in a single innings in a Sheffield
Shield match ? If so, name of side, opponents,
when and where played, score obtained and
century-makers and their scores ? —4994.
(1) 1107 by Victoria v. N.S.W., at Melbourne,
1926-27. (2) 769 by Australia v. England, at
Lord’s, 1930. (3) See answer to (1). Century
makers for Victoria were W. H. Ponsford 352,
J. Ryder 295, W. M. Woodfull 133, H. L.
Hendry 100.
* * *
Delegates of the five States to the conven-
tion which adopted the Federal Constitution
on March 13, 1898 ? —4921.
N.S.W.: Edmund Barton, G. H. Reid, J. H.
Carruthers, William McMillan, W. J. Lyne,
J. N. Brunker, R. E. O’Connor, J. P. Abbott,
J. T. Walker, B. R. Wise. Vic.: George
Turner, John Quick, Alfred Deakin, A. J.
Peacock, I. A. Isaacs, W. A. Trenwith, Graham
Berry, Simon Fraser, William A. Zeal, H. B.
Higgins. S.A.: C. C. Kingston, F. W. Holder,
J. A. Cockburn, R. C. Baker, J. H. Gordon,
J. H. Symon, John Downer, P. McM. Glynn,
J. H. Howe, V. L. Solomon. Tas.: Philip
O. Fysh, Edward Braddon, Henry Dobson,
N. E. Lewis, Nicholas J. Brown, C. H. Grant,
Adye Douglas, William Moore, M. J. Clarke,
John Henry. W.A.: John Forrest, James G.
Lee Steere, George Leake, J. W. Hackett,
W. H. James, A. Y. Hassell, Henry Briggs,
F. T. Crowder, A. H. Henning, H. W. Venn.
* * * *
(1) How many young does the dugong bear
yearly? (2) How is the young one suckled?
(3) Average length and weight of the dugong?
(4) Yield of oil per dugong, weight of hide and
is its flesh digestible? —5017.
(1) As far as it is known, one a year, about
three feet long when born. (2) Through a
nipple two inches long just beneath the flapper
on each side. (3) The grown animal is from
10001b. to 12001b. in weight, and one caught
in Moreton Bay measured lift. 8in. from snout
to tail; eight to ten feet is a more usual length.
(4) A well-grown dugong yields four to five
gallons of oil; its hide when green weighs
nearly 2001b.; and the flesh, if treated like pork
or bacon, is savory and digestible.
* * * *
(1) Scientific name of the tree goanna or lace
monitor ? (2) What length does it attain, and
how can it be distinguished from the land
goanna? What does it feed on? —5003.
(1) Varanus varius. (2) Grows to at least
6ft. Prevailing colors are black and yellow;
it may be readily distinguished from V.
gouldii (which is more characteristically a
ground form) by the presence of alternating
black and yellow bands on the tail. These
goannas are great robbers and scavengers, de-
vouring dead or living animals, and are fond of
birds’ eggs.
* * * *
Particulars of the Tay Bridge railway
disaster ? —5061.
The more-than-two-miles-long bridge over
the Tay at Dundee, Scotland, was partly de-
stroyed by a gale while a mail train was passing
over on the evening of Sunday, December 28,
1879, and between 80 and 90 persons were
killed. The finding of a subsequent inquiry was
that the bridge, which had been in use little
over a year, was “badly designed, badly con-
structed and badly maintained.” A new bridge
was opened in 1887.
* * * *
Particulars of change to present calendar ?
Which was the first leap year under it, and
why was 1900 omitted from leap years? Any
other such omissions ?— 4879.
The present (Gregorian) calendar was intro-
duced into England and colonies in 1752. Sep-
tember 3 of that year was called September 14,
and the commencement of the legal year was
changed from March 25 to January 1. The first
leap year under the new reckoning fell in
1756. Only those centurial years which are
exactly divisible by 400 are accounted leap
years; consequently 1800 and 1900 were
omitted from the list; otherwise the rule of
every fourth year applies.
* * * -ir-
is it a fact that, since the inauguration of the
Five-year Plan, the lowest-paid Russian male
worker gets the equivalent of £1 per week ?
5007.
No. In 1930, two years after the inaugura-
tion of the first Five-year Plan, the wage for
the lowest-paid manual laboring work in Great
Britain was from £lO to £l2 per month; in
Russia less than £8 per month, taking the
rouble at par, and the rouble was not up to
its gold parity. Retail prices for commodities
in the Soviet Union were during the same
period estimated to be 50 p.c. above English
prices. To offset this were lower rents, the
value of certain social services (such as the
care of mothers and infants) and a system
of rationing whereby the prices of necessary
commodities were periodically fixed. Commodi-
ties not so rationed were, however, extremely
dear, and often unprocurable. Also Russian
workers’ wages are subject to deductions for
Governmental purposes, and subscription to
Government loans is compulsory.
* * * *
(1) Would a M.L. resident be eligible for en-
rolment in the woolclassing course at the Sydney
Technical College? (2) Fees for and period of
full course ? (3) Prospects of subsequently
obtaining employment ? (4) Any age limit ? (5)
Address of secretary or registrar? —49oß.
(1) Yes. (2) £8 Bs. for session of six months.
Duration of course is two such sessions (daily
attendance). (3) Competition for good posi-
tions is keen, but there is usually plenty of
work available during the shearing season.
(4) Any age above 15. (5) The Principal, Tech-
nical College, Sydney.
* ❖ ❖ ❖
(1) Is cellophane paper weevil-proof ? (2) If
not, is there any wrapper that is? (3) Would
it be serviceable for wrapping of dried fruits?
(4) Name of firm dealing in this paper? (5)
Name of firm selling machinery for the hand-
ling of this paper? —47B2.
(1) Cellophane paper is not weevil-proof,
although it does give a measure of protection,
which varies with the foodstuff and the type
of package. (2) A waxed or paraffined paper
has a more definite insecticidal value. (3)
Foods such as dried fruits (which contain up
to 20 p.c. of moisture) may damp and break
the cellophane. It gives best results used out-
side a stiff container, such as cardboard. (4)
and (5) Consult Chamber of Commerce,
Sydney.
'♦ * * *
Who was Adrienne Lecouvreur ?- —5034.
One of the greatest of French tragic actresses,
born 1692, her father being a hatter in the
village of Damery, in Champagne. At 13, after
a motherless childhood, she accompanied her
father to Paris, where? her ability in childish
theatricals attracted the attention of a Mme.
de Gue, who had her courtyard fitted up as
a little theatre for Adrienne’s benefit. By 1717
the young actress was appearing at the Comedie
Frangaise and was the rage of Paris. She was
suddenly seized with illness on the stage on the
night of March 15, 1730, while playing in Vol-
taire’s “Oedipe,” and died four days later.
*Jc *i» »{•
Information concerning the Solomon Islands,
including number of white’residents and annual
rainfall ?— 4452.
This Pacific Ocean archipelago has an esti-
mated aggregate area of 15,000 sq. miles, almost
entirely of volcanic formation. There are two
active volcanoes and several quiescent and ex-
tinct. Vegetation is dense and tropical and
atmosphere moist and humid, temperature
ranging from 75deg. to 95deg. F. At the 1930
census white population numbered 497 —273
males, 147 females and 77 children. Since
1922 average rainfall has been 164 in. p.a.,
with a very much higher registration in the
mountains.
H*
(1) English translation of the four or five
lines beginning with “E vidi quattro stelle” in
which Dante in “Purgatorio” refers to the
Southern Cross? (2) Is it likely that Dante
saw the Southern Cross, and for what reason
does he make his readers believe that the stars
in it are exceptionally radiant? —5030.
(1) An English translation by Sir S. W.
Griffith reads:
I saw four stars that never
Were seen excepting by folk primeval.
The heavens seemed in their flamelets to be joying.
0 desolate indeed, thou northern region,
Since upon these thou art bereft of gazing!
(2) These four stars Dante used to symbolise
the four moral virtues (Justice, Prudence, Tem-
perance and Fortitude). His mention of them
has never been satisfactorily explained, but it
is believed that he saw the group mapped on
a celestial globe of Arabian origin. His as-
cription to them of great brightness, which has
misled poets and other writers ever since, is
merely part of the symbolism; it was the
virtues, not the four actual stars, whose
radiance he emphasised.
* * * *
(1) When and by whom was found the group
of islands which include Tristan da Cunha ?
(2) Population, and are they British ? (3) Do
the inhabitants show any inclination to leave
the place? —4747.
(1) In 1506 by a Portuguese admiral, Tristao
da Cunha. (2) About 180; mixed blood, but
British strain predominant. (3) In spite of
periods of distress the inhabitants refuse to
leave the island, though they have been offered
land at the Cape of Good Hope.
* * * *
Instructions for building a log cabin (Ameri-
can pioneer style ) ? —4976.
Drive stout logs in corner positions suffi-
ciently high to give roof clearance. (For a
large building uprights will be ‘needed in the
middle of each long wall, or several if great
length is required.) Split logs 6in. to Bin., or
larger, in diameter evenly in two and sprag,
nail or tie along the walls to the uprights, be-
ginning at ground level, rounded edge out-
wards. When the walls are covered, adze ends
neatly at corners (this may be done before
they are nailed up if more convenient).
Windows are not usual, but if required should
be joinery jobs in the usual weatherboard
style. Doors may be joinery frames, with ledge
doors, or something rougher if preferred. Roof
should project all round at least 12in., and
may be skillion, gable or hipped style; gal-
vanised-iron or bark put on over rafters.
Chimneys—built outside the cabin, with large
opening inside for access to the hearth and
fire —may be of brick, pieces of rock, cement
and clinker or large stones cemented together.
Floors are usually of beaten earth; antbed is
good. Chinks in walls are filled and stopped
by ramming in puddled clay. Clay washes out
eventually in storms, and is frequently re-
newed ; the overhang of the roof protects it
somewhat. A dressing of creosote on the wood
near ground level will check white-ants.
* * :!•- *
Meaning and particulars of word Ariel ? —•
4883.
It means “Lion of God,” in Hebrew and
mediaeval mythology one of the seven spirits
presiding over the waters. It is first used as an
adjective, rendered “lion-like” in the English
version (2 Samuel, xxiii, 20), and later as a
proper name in Ezra viii, 20, when Ariel is one
of the chief men sent to procure ministers for
the sanctuary; also in Isaiah xxix as a figurative
name for Jerusalem. Shakspeare gives the name
to his “ayriq sprite” in “The Tempest,” and
Milton in “Paradise Lost” to a fallen angel.
Goethe in “Faust” makes Ariel the leader of
the Elves. The name has been applied to
Shelley; also to the painter Corregio.
t- * * *
Could sump oil, obtained from motor garages,
be used for the bearings of high-speed planing
machines doing heavy work in timber mills? —
4938.
Not recommended, as there is a certain
amount of dilution in the oil by unburnt motor
spirit, which reduces its body. Also, the oil
in service becomes contaminated with minute
dust particles which, being of an abrasive
nature, would cause additional wear to bear-
ingS> *
I wish to make a pedestal in plaster and
lacquer it to appear like porcelain. (2) If plaster
of Paris will serve, how is it mixed, and how
given a hard surface ? (2) What filler would I
require to give the lacquer a smooth finish ?
4779. . , „
(1) Plaster of Paris is suitable, especially for
small objects. It is mixed with water to a pour-
ing consistency and then poured into the
moulds: it sets very quickly. A little alum dis-
solved in the mixing water will make the plaster
very hard. (2) Rub it as smooth as possible
with sandpaper. Two or three coats of lacquer
should then give a very good surface, especially
if they can be sprayed on. For very large
articles you can work very well with builders’
cement; use two parts sand by measure to one
part pure cement, and mix with clean water.
* * * *
I wish to project slides on to a screen located
at 10 ft. from the lens. (1) Focal length of
lens, in inches ? (2) Magnification, in diopters ?
(3) What is a diopter? (4) How to convert
focal length, in inches, into diopters ? —4932.
(1) Depends on the picture size. For a pic-
ture sft. square, a 6in. lens will be suitable.
Cost, about 325. 6d. (2) 6.5. (3) Reciprocal
of focal length in metres. (4) Multiply focal
length, in inches, by 2.54 and divide the answer
into 100. Taking a 6in. lens as an example:
6 x 2.54 equals 15.24, which figure, divided
into 100, gives 6.5 diopters.
* * * *
Can ink splashes be taken out of white pine,
and how? —4909. / .
Almost impossible, owing to the density ot
the ink and the porosity of the wood. Mix
together equal parts of cream of tartar and
citric acid and moisten with water to a paste
which will pour freely. Drop some on the
stains, spread with a knife, let stand a minute
or two, then wipe up quickly with a damp clpth
or blotting-paper. Repeat until as much ink
as possible has been removed, and wash up
freely with clean cold water. Sandpaper the
wood lightly to finish.
* * * *
Particulars of the loss of the Egypt? —4972.
Outward bound from Tilbury Dock, the 8000
tons P. and O. ship Egypt, in the London-
India service, collided in a fog in the Bay ot
Biscay with the French cargo steamei Seine
on the evening of May 20, 1922, about 30 miles
off the coast of Brittany. The French steamer s
bows, reinforced for ice-breaking, crashed
through the Egypt’s plates, and she sank in
20 minutes in 400 fathoms, with a loss ot 96
lives. In addition to her 44 passengers and crew
of 291 she carried a cargo of bullion to the
value of £1,054,000; nine years later this
treasure was recovered by salvage operations.
* * * *
(1) What causes cracking noises in the joints
of a plumpish person of 30-odd who has no
rheumatic pains? Is it curable (2) C an
lean, withered skin, such as “crepy neck,
be cured in a woman of that age and type,
and, if so, how? —4759. , ~
(1) Cracking noises, often heard when healthy
joints are moved, originate in the tendons and
fibrous tissue surrounding the joints. In persons
free of arthritic troubles the sounds have no
serious significance, and nothing can be done
to prevent them. (2) Provided the skin con-
dition is not associated with any general con-
stitutional disorder it is unlikely to benefit by
treatment.
Brief Answers.
J. 8.: (1) Apparently what you require is a
hawker’s license. Application may be made
on first ordinary sitting day of any month to
Court of Petty Sessions in district where you
reside. You must have your name on the
vehicle. See Clerk of Petty Sessions. (2) Week
means working week in any industrial award
to which he may be subject. (3) He should
not cut down trees or remove fallen timber,
but where only a few abandoned sticks lie
along the track it is not likely any action would
be taken. (4) If sports ground is private
property, owner may enclose it and make a
charge for entrance. (5) Write Department of
Agriculture, Loftus-street, Sydney. (6) He must
not use the road for purposes other than ordi-
nary traffic. (7) Yes, and more risky. (8) Yes,
if the words were uttered in the hearing of other
persons. (9) No; he should impound them.
(10) Cannot recommend any particular co
J.D.K.: Where bullion contains much base
metal the latter may be reduced by repeated
smelting operations with the proper fluxes; but
it is best to leave these operations to the Royal
Mint R.S.S.: The heaviest crop of potatoes
seen dug in Victoria by the Vic. Agric. Dept,
potato expert was one of 25 tons lOcwt. per
acre of table-sized tubers (there were no small
potatoes). This was grown by J. J. Clark, of
Koonongwootong estate, Coleraine, and won
the Coleraine Society’s crop competition for
the season 1931-32 E.N.: The Western Aus-
tralian Bank and the Australian Bank of Com-
merce both amalgamated with the Bank of
New South Wales, the first on March 29, 1927,
and the second on December 28, 1931. Gn
April 1, 1927, the Royal Bank of Australia
amalgamated with the E., S. and A. Bank.
The Primary Producers’ Bank went into liquida-
tion on September 28, 1931... .G.S.: Titles of
books in French by Paul Wenz are: Au Pays
de Leurs Peres, Contes Australiens, L’Echarde,
L’Homme du Soleil Couchant, Le Jardin des
Coraux and A VAutre Bout du Monde
L.H.: Admiral Sir David Murray Anderson,
Governor of N. S. Wales, died in office,
October 30, 1936 C.A.J.: Full lists will be
found in The Australian Authors and Artists’
Handbook (35.) A.M.: Mailey’s team, tour-
ing U.S.A. and Canada in 1932, won four
outright and 40 on first innings, lost one on
first innings, drew six. Bradman topped batting
averages with 102.1, and McCabe bowling
averages with 6....R.L.C.: The badge of
the Volunteer Officers’ decoration is an oak
wreath in silver framing the royal cipher and
a heraldic crown. It is worn on the left
breast with a green ribbon attached to a silver
oak bar-brooch... .W.H.C.: Write Department
of Defence, Melbourne M.E.R.: (1) Her-
bert Jenkins’s Australian agents do not con-
sider MSS. Send direct to that firm, 3 York-
street, London, S.W.I. (2) Robertson and
Mullens, 107 Elizabeth-street, Melbourne, C.l
J.D.M.A.: Write Secretary, Air Board, De
fence Department, Melbourne K. 8.: A
number of Chancery cases have been suggested
as providing the basis for that of Jarndyce v.
Jarndyce in Dickens’s Bleak House; two re-
garded as the most likely prototypes are Martin
v. Earl Beauchamp and Jennens v. Jennens.
Evidently the latter is the one to which you
refer... .F.G.H.: The Snakes of Australia, by
J. R. Kinghorn (65.), obtainable from Angus
and Robertson, Sydney A.C.: Write Secre-
tary, Air Board, Defence Department, Mel-
bourne C.S.: Couch grass is difficult to
control, though repeated applications of sodium
chlorate applied at the rate of lib. to lgal.
of water will destroy it... .T.A.8.: (1) Super,
is manufactured by the action of sulphuric
acid on rock phosphate, whereby a water-
soluble form of calcium phosphate is produced,
along with some calcium sulphate, a secondary
product of the reaction. (2) Rock phosphate
is imported from islands in the Pacific, and
none exists in Australia. It would therefore
be impossible to produce super., or any similar
fertiliser, from any deposit of decomposed rock
known to you. It is unlikely that such a
deposit would have commercial value as a
fertiliser. Submit a sample to the Chemist for
Agriculture, Melbourne H.W.: The super-
marine Spitfire I was designed by R. J. Mitchell,
of the Supermarine Aviation Works (Vickers,
Ltd.), England. Details as to speed are not
available, but it is claimed to be the fastest
military aeroplane in the world. It is a single-
seater fighter monoplane fitted with a Rolls-
Royce Merlin engine. No information is avail-
able regarding its use by any foreign Power—
L.8.T.: The condition described calls for
operative treatment by a veterinary surgeon.
Growths on the third eyelid (nictitating mem-
brane) of the horse, if neglected, are likely to
become cancerous. From the description given
this may have already occurred G.A.M.:
(1) Because aluminium is not produced in Aus-
tralia and the overseas market is controlled.
(2) Probably the Mines Department would have
overseas bulletins; or try Frank Hambridge,
ore-buyer, Sydney. (3) Twelve months ago
aluminium was £IOO per ton and electrolytic
copper £4O per ton. To-day the respective
London prices are £IOO per ton and £75 10s.
per ton T.J.H.: Mary Gilmore was born
near Goulburn (N.S.W.). In the New Aus-
tralia movement she went to Paraguay in 1895,
remained five years,, went thence to the Argen-
tine, was later teacher of English in Patagonia,
and wrote for Buenos Ayres papers. She re-
turned to Australia in 1902 R. 8.: (1) Betty
Stockfield, born Sydney, January 15, 1905,
first appeared on the stage at the Duke ot
York’s Theatre, London, May, 1924, in the
chorus of “London Calling.” (2) Stanley Hol-
loway’s address is 20 Sackville-street, London,
W.l E.N.C.: The phrase “There is a friend
that sticketh closer than a brother” is from
Proverbs xviii, 24 W.R.L.: Good Friday m
1902 fell on March 28 W.J.M.: King
Christian IX. of Denmark was born April »,
1819 ; married Princess Louise of Hesse-
Cassel; died January 29, 1906 F.T.: In-
corporated Society of Authors, Playwrights and
Composers, 11 Gower-street, London, W.L.i.
....L.M.: Kulkerung means “a river cross-
ing” ; Murrawal, “plenty”; Terngal, many
little birds”; Wargundy, “crow’s nest —ah are
N.S.W. abo. place-names (Many others
mailed.)


ULTIMATE RADIO
ADVANCE ANNOUNCEMENT OF 1937 MODELS
ULTIMATE, over a period of twelve years, has earned for itself an enviable reputation. Not only have these sets been so
engineered as to appeal to the person who desired extreme power, but also to those who ask for superb tonal qualities. Year
by year ULTIMATE engineers have introduced refinements and improvements which have not always been available for
other makers to copy indiscriminately.
Consider These Points
ULTIMATE was the set used by Admiral R. E.
Byrd on his South Polar expeditions.
ULTIMATE is the set used by Mr. R. N. Shaw, of
Wauchope, for the compiling of data for the short-
wave page in “Wireless Weekly.”
ULTIMATE has won 9 Champion of Champions
awards in New Zealand against the whole field of
American, English and Australian sets.
ULTIMATE has logged on a 6-valve electric broad-
cast model more stations than any other set in the
world—79B verified stations.
Features Include
Latest type of edge-lit color-coded dial with wave-
band indicator, volume indicator and tone indicator.
Independent logging hand for fine tuning.
Special ten-inch speakers.
Metal tubes, of course, because metal offers many
advantages no other material can match, and in-
creases sensitivity on all bands.
Special noise-suppressing circuit with switch control.
All-wave models tune from 12 metres to 120
metres.
Special tone control which accentuates either treble
or bass
1937 Range of Models
Four-valve broadcast (Treasure Chest) £l4/-/-
Five-valve broadcast (Empire Console) £24/10/-
Five-valve dual-wave „ £29/15/-
Six-valve dual-wave ~ ~ £33/10/-
Eight-valve all-wave (Baby Grand Console) . . £46/10/-
Eleven-valve de luxe all-wave (twin chassis)
Radio in Roslyn Cabinet £B2/10/-
Radiogram £95/10/-
Seven-valve all-wave battery model 'in Baby
Grand Console £49/-/-
Sole Australian Concessionaires:
George Brown & Company Limited
267 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
QUEENSLAND: National Radio, Corner Wharf Street, Brisbane.
WEST AUSTRALIA: J. and W. Bateman, Murray Street, Perth.
TASMANIA: Latham’s Radio, Elizabeth Street, Hobart.
NEW SOUTH WALES: David Jones, Ltd., George Street, Sydney.
THE OTHER
FELLOW'S
MIND.
Subsidised Teachers
We can put up with a lot in far-
western N.S.W., and we don’t give a
hoot what you Sydney coves think of
us; but we kid ourselves we are prac-
tical people and get value for our money.
Down in Sydney, people have been
making a devil of a fuss about the
quality of our subsidised school-teachers.
These subsidised school-teachers are
pioneers; we’ve weighed them up and
reckon we’re getting value. We know
these teachers as we know our brands ;
we appreciate and admire them.. They're
down on their luck or it wouldn’t be our
luck to have them ; but they’ve had guts
to come out here to a job which means
heartaches aplenty, but independence.
You’ll find them scattered all through
the isolated mulga country which your
certificated teacher would find intoler-
able. Two hundred of them went to
Sydney, at their own expense, to attend
a departmental summer school.
Although it’s as hot as blazes to-day
at the Gin Bottle and the flies are, as
venomous as malice, our hats are off to
the departmental heads and that unique
Minister, Drummond, for their recogni-
tion of the services of the underdog
teacher of the bush, and of their efforts
to blaze a track for the best of these
teachers to the training college and a
career.—A. S. (N.S.W.).
Father Bull’s Achievement
Considering his handicaps, it is amaz-
ing that Father Bull has struggled out
of the depression at all. Stubbornly ad-
hering to the outworn ideal of individual
freedom, he puts up with democracy
when he could enjoy the incomparably
more efficient rule of a dictator. He has
been too backward to adopt modern
methods of curing poverty, such as the
destruction of crops. He has not even
engaged in any large-scale economic
planning. His industries have been
denied the priceless boon of countless
committees, administrations, N.R.As.,
A.B.Cs., X.Y.Zs., Q.E.Ds., R.I.Ps., and
so forth, to tell them what to do and how
to do it. It is perplexing to find that, in
spite of all this, he is miles ahead of
most of his competitors in recovery from
depression, and that his industries em-
ploy a greater number of people to-day
than ever before.
Somehow or other the Old Man usually
manages in the long run to come out of
a crisis ahead of the rest of the field.—
Cy Cyclone (Vic.).
A Way They Have in the Tramways
They travelled out on my tram. Two
strapping adults, one carrying a portable
ladder, the other half a dozen light
globes. They had a 40-minute tram ride,
and we left them at the terminus. A
globe had died of old age over a tram-
way clock. — Keg (N.S.W.).
The Tourist Racket
Another example of that “you-be-
damned” attitude of the N.S.W. Govern-
ment Tourist Bureau (B. 3/2/’37).
A launch proprietor who has the con-
tract to carry mails from Brooklyn to
Wiseman’s Ferry—a 30-mile Hawkes-
bury River trip each way—built up a
considerable tourist trade. Each day his
launch leaves Hawkesbury River (or
Brooklyn) immediately after the arrival
of the northern mail train, proceeding
up river to Wiseman’s Ferry, making en
route from 20 to 50 stops at villages and
private wharves. The scheduled time of
arrival back at Hawkesbury River was
approximately 5 p.m. —in nice time for
travellers to board the 5.20 p.m. train to
the city.
Without warning the Railway Depart-
ment cancelled that train and substituted
one stopping at 4.35 p.m. The next
train to stop was 7.29 p.m. Tourist trade
immediately decreased —within a couple
of weeks it was nil.
The Tourist Bureau did not lift a finger
to remedy the ridiculous state of affairs,
but continued advising tourists to make
the trip.
It was not until a Sydney journalist
approached the Railway Commissioner’s
fortress at Central station that a remedy
was found. The stopping of a scheduled
“through” mail train at 5.40 p.m. was re-
quested and granted. The “through”
train picks up passengers from the
launch, but, according to the timetable
and Tourist Bureau officials, it doesn’t
stop—A. L. (N.S.W.).
Propaganda Films
An English visitor tells us that Aus-
tralia should send more good propaganda
films overseas. After having seen Holly-
wood’s anti-lynching “Fury” and its
safety-plea “Toll of the Road,” Aus-
tralians are realising that the screen is a
really excellent propaganda and publicity
medium. But even scenic stuff needs
more subtle treatment than Australia has
thus far given it. —M. L. (Vic.).
Pensions
“H.M.E.” (B. 23/12/’36) is the latest
to draw attention to the alarming in-
crease in old-age and invalid pensions.
Like all the other alarmists, he fails to
name the cause. One of them is the
policy of the kind of employer who gar-
bage-tins employees at 60; then the
strength-sapped, out-of-work men and
women who try to live on 7s. 6d. worth
of food-relief become chronic invalids.
“H.M.E.” asks: “Can we afford it?”
It’s not a case of can. but of must. —
M. N. (N.S.W.).
The “Safety Campaign”
N.S.W. authorities engaged in that
“safety campaign” (B. 27/1/’37) could
provide a better control of traffic by
ceasing to persecute motorists for minor
parking offences and developing the
motor inspection force. At present, police
methods are not all that could be
desired. Flying squads that run races in
high-powered cars in busy areas are not
calculated to instil the idea of speed as a
a lethal factor into the minds of young
and adventurous drivers.—-V. E, (N.S.W.).
A Bluff That Failed
I bought some Sydney suburban land
nine years ago. There were then no
water mains on the “estate.” I sold the
block in 1935, and in 1936 the Water
Board came to light with a claim for
nearly seven years’ rates.
I paid the current year’s charges and
questioned the board’s right to claim
rates for periods during which it had
not issued rate notices. Very evasive in
the ensuing correspondence, it was in-
vited (twice) to prove its claim in court.
It climbed down and stated that, far
from expecting me to pay, it would
“look to the new owner.” In other
words, it proposes to continue making
this claim until some future owner re-
quires a water supply, which it will re-
fuse to grant until its “arrears” are paid.
Can any fellow-toiler tell me why a
Government board should be afraid to
have its claims aired in court? —P. P. S.
(N.S.W.).
The N.S.W. Licensing Chaos
To any stranger, the working of the
licensing laws of N. S. Wales might
appear a profound mystery. Not long
ago the residents of Cremorne, a North
Sydney suburb, asked for a licensed
house. After hundreds of pounds had
been spent on briefing counsel and on
other legal expenses, a license was re-
fused. though extreme points of the
area concerned are 10 minutes’ journey
by tram or ferry from the nearest bar.
At King’s Cross there are two hotels
within a hundred yards, plus a licensed
bar in a big block of flats, plus some
wine saloons, plus two more pubs a
couple of hundred yards away. Yet, at
the moment, a transferred license is to
operate for a new hostelry opposite a
pub which has two bars and three
lounges.
While there are Sydney suburbs in
which a working man has to walk a
mile, to get a glass of beer, there are 11
hotels and two wine bars in a part of
Sydney normally empty between work-
ing hours, and not overcrowded during
them.—E. V. (N.S.W.).


A RELIABLE
INVESTMENT
An Interest Bearing Deposit with the Bank of
New South Wales is a secure investment that does
not fluctuate in value. It provides a steady and
reliable income for the depositor.
Interest is paid half-yearly during the period for
which the money is lodged, at the rate ruling at
the time the deposit is made. The Bank makes no
charges of any kind.
Deposits of £5 and upwards are accepted by the
Bank’s branches in Australia at the following
rates:
3% per annum for 24 months
2|% „ „ »12 months
„ „ „ 6 months
2% „ „ „ 3 months
o
a
ESTABLISHED
I S If
THE OLDEST AND LARGEST BANK IN AUSTRALASIA.
TNEMMONTEEIME
SffOULDAEAD m£j?/G#UMd£CWtf
£V£/?rm?£x/x ,.
THE AUSTRALASIAN
OxfAl£~JllSTAT£S~Pfi/CE 6.
Jackson and His Contemporaries
[The Bulletin’s articles on the great old
Australian boxers have drawn a host of letters
from readers who remember them, and the
series has been suspended for a week to admit
of some of these being published. Future
articles will be devoted to Larry Foley, Jim
Hall, Creedon and half-forgotten celebrities of
the London Prize Ring days.]
“Col. B.”: Recent Bulletin articles
on that gallant gentleman Peter Jackson
bring a lump into my throat. I am proud
to have been his friend, and to have
helped to make his final passing easier.
He was no “black.” Peter came o£
mixed Arab and negro stock, and the
Arab predominated. Not the Gyppo or
the tourist Arab, but the aristocratic
Arab, soldier, sailor and proper fighting
man, the Arab type that Colonel Law-
rence classed among the salt of the earth,
That fight at the National Sporting
Club in 1892 ended the fighting careers
of both Jackson and Frank (“Paddy”)
Slavin. Frank, too, was my friend. He
told me that he had side-stepped a meet-
ing with Peter in 1887 in Australia, as
b e would never have had a hope with
Jackson therL Frank was game to the
,• .. u , , , „ . .
1 but be had a career to make, and
an impromptu dust-up between them at
Larry Foley’s, which resulted in Frank
taking a glass door with him in a hurried
descent down a flight of stairs as a con-
sequence of the impact of Jackson's fist
on his jaw, convinced him that close-in
tactics would be even worse than out-
fighting.
They were enemies for years, and the
1892 meeting was a savage grudge-fight
° n b ° ,h s l d f- That , S°° d sportsman
L ? rd Lonsdale reconciled them not long
a f ler - Peter could not be anyone s
enemy, at heart, but Frank was dour
underneath, and it took time. I saw
much of Peter in London in 1896, and
he spoke warmly of Frank, as Slavm
did of him in more than one letter from
the Klondyke.
I think it was early in 1901 that I last
saw Peter, a gaunt, coughing wreck, just
out of Geelong Hospital. The same
courteous, well-spoken, lovable Peter,
but a doomed man. I wired Billy Cor-
bett in Sydney, and did what I could to
make the sick man happy and comfort-
able until he could be sent up to Roma
(Q.) Sanatorium by easy stages. Billy
got up a subscription, those good souls
the Fitzgeralds helped, and his last days
passed quietly and happily.
I showed The Bulletin articles to a
lady who was a nurse at Roma while he
was there. She handed them back with
eyes brimming. '“He was a darling man,”
she said. “I cried for a week after he
died, and I’m crying now! What
couldn’t he have done if he’d been
a white man?” But Peter Jackson was
a white man ; white all through under a
dark skin.
Jack Feneley: It was through the
offices of the late Mr. W. Waterhouse,
of North Sydney, and myself that the
name of Peter Jackson was put on the
fistic map. I was for many years em-
ployed by Mr. Waterhouse, who owned
the Prince of Wales, the Admiral and
other tugs ; and, going down to Circular
Quay about five o’clock one morning to
send one of the tugs out to a ship that
was due, I came across a large dark
youth sitting on the side of a sailing-
ship’s cargo stage. “You’re down early,”
I said, taking him for a wharfie waiting
to start at six o’clock. He replied that
he wanted to see a colored friend and
shipmate on the old Manly steamer
Fairlight. I mentioned that I knew two
of the Fairlight’s crew, Bill Grant and
Tom Walker. “Walker?” he exclaimed.
“Walker was a shipmate of mine.”
In further conversation he said his name
was Peter Jackson, and he had deserted
from the sailing ship that brought him
to Sydney. Struck with his splendid
physique and his pleasant manners 1
got him a job as deck-hand on the
Prince of Wales. Mr. Waterhouse and
members of his family were pretty fair
boxers. In course of time Peter beat many
a rough-and-tumble fighter who knocked
round the old Green Gate Hotel, and
with the family’s approval I took him
along to Larry Foley’s White Horse
Hotel to figure in one of the afternoon
bouts held there. His first opponent was
Mick Dooley, and the experienced Mick
beat him ; but he was neither dismayed
nor discouraged. Larry Foley became
his teacher, and the rest is ring history.
It was I who induced Captain Morse,
of the Alameda, to take Jackson to
America.
Joe Goddard.
William Goddard: You credit Jim
Hall with a victory over Joe Goddard in
1889. They never met; it was Herb
Goddard who encountered Hall in 1889,
and was defeated.
The words “Strap me ’ands to me
sides an’ ’ave a clout at me jore”
are attributed to Joe Goddard (B.
24/2/’37). He never used such lan-
guage ; his vocabulary was as good as, if
not better than, that' of the average
Australian.
“The bottle became his opponent,
and he hit it hard.” Joe Goddard rarely
touched intoxicating liquor ; he was of
most temperate habits. The facts of the
incident referred to are that, shortly
before the Smith-Goddard fight, two
Australians, a boxer and a manager,
quarrelled and came to blows. Goddard
tried to separate them ; he was struck
on the head with the jagged end of a
bottle. Malarial fever supervened, and
whilst still suffering from the effects Joe
stepped into the ring to keep faith.
Goddard was born at Pyramul
(N.S.W.) on November 25, 1857. He
was 32 years old when he had his first
engagement in the ring.
“Friday”: It was at the old
Palace, Melbourne. “Professor” King
had just thrown out a challenge to any-
one his weight, Herb Goddard preferred.
There rose above the far side of the
ropes a shining belltopper, and beneath
it an imposing figure, tall and broad,
wrapped in a long coat, with deep astra-
khan about the collar and cuffs. It was
Joe Goddard, then approaching the
zenith of his fame. He did not speaK,
but, reaching into his breast pocket,
brought forth handfuls of notes. That
finished the “Professor.”
“H.M.G.”: Fishermen’s Bend, Mel-
bourne, destined perhaps to become the
greatest factory centre in Australia, was
the scene of Joe Goddards greatest feat
of strength—and Joseph was the stiong-
est pug Australia has known. He threw
a cow over a three-railed fence there.
Got his head under the animal, and,
taking a fore- and hind-leg in each hand,
he hoisted. Over she went.
“Uncle, M.D.”: Dauntless as Joe
Goddard was in the ring, he feared one
person thoroughly—his mother-in-law.
When he had the pub on the South Mel-
bourne side of Queen’s Bridge in the
earlier ’nineties, I was one of the crew
of a whaleboat engaged in picking up
refugees from a flood which submerged
the vicinity. We found Joe, his wife and
her mother roosting in a bedroom on
the first floor, and tried to get the old
lady—a dame of generous build —
through the window. No use. She stuck.
All efforts failing, Joe put an enormous
shoulder against her transom and heaved
her, window and all, into the boat, which
barely missed capsizing under her weight.
Then he carefully boarded the craft —at
the other end. The last sight of the
family party, after we landed them on
the Spencer-street side, was that of Joe
smothering up against a wall and the old
lady still giving him a piece of her mind.
"Griff©" and Others.
Selwyn Street: No ; “Griffo” was
not much of a street fighter (B.
10/3/’37); but street-fighting was not
the forte of our old-time ring champions.
I can remember Abe Willis, a lighter
boy, giving “Griffo” a daddy of a hid-
ing in Goulburn-street, Sydney, one
Thursday afternoon ; and I saw George
Powell beaten in two or three minutes
at the corner of Crown and Oxford
streets by a novice, Bob Watson, George
Powell fought Jack Hall at Clontarf for
£5OO. Hall won, but he would not have
a second helping of Powell, who was
overtrained. We boys used to box with
George at his home, on the sandhills,
Paddington, where Green’s-road school
now stands. After doing his training
under the eyes of brother Ned, instead
of resting he would take us all on, get-
ting to bed just before Ned came home.
“R.J.”: Fitzsimmons was of a very
domesticated turn of mind before he left
Sydney for the U.S.A. Any Sunday
morning in the late ’eighties he might
have been seen stalking down the Glebe-
road with the first Mrs. F. by his side
and a yearling Fitzsimmons in his arms.
But, oh, what a difference in the States!
“U. P. Percut”: “Professor” Miller
(B. 17/2/’37) was a walking—and biffing
—refutation of the old boxing maxim:
“One punch for a strong man, two for
a wrestler.” Indeed, there is no man
like him in the whole history of the
padded ring. Sandow never came near
to equalling some of the Victorian’s
wholly unfaked weightlifting feats. Miller
downed the best of the world’s wrestlers
in the U.S.A., and was world champion
for two years. He beat Paul Aubert
with the foils in Melbourne (and Aubert
had been professional champion of
France) when he was well over 40. As
for his boxing, The Bulletin has re-
told the story of how Larry Foley never
had a chance with him, either for speed
or science. If the Professor is still living
he will be 90 this year. He’s the kind
of man who’d live to 250 if he really
wanted to.
“8.C.”: A well-spoken man, always
formally dressed in the frockcoat and
top-hat of gentility of the day, Profes-
sor” Miller proved a dreadful takedown
on occasion. Three unlucky would-be
garrotters once tackled him as he walkeu
home along the St. Kilda-road. He
knocked out two, chased the third loi
half a mile, carried him back and threw
him up on the roof of the old tollhouse,
telling him to stay there. I once saw him
hand a travelling-bag to an impoitunak
porter at the Spencer-street station. To-
man promptly fell down with it it con-
tained some of the Professor s weight-
lifting bells which he was taking up toi
an exhibition at Bendigo.


WRITERS!
Freelancing and Short Story Courses
include Editorial Criticism and Place-
ment details.
METROPOLITAN SCHOOL
Ci Dal Icy St., Sydney. OF JOURNALISM
ESTABLISHED 1834.
the
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND • • 4,300,000 0 0
(Used wholly in the business)
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
Directors:
James Ashton (Chairman), Edward R. Knox, Owen E. Friend,
Sir Wm. Vicars, C.8.E., Orwell Phillips.
General Manager: C. Darvall.
Head Office: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout New South Wales,
Queensland, Victoria, South Australia, and at Canberra, F.C.T.
IT’S A FACT!
*
electrically
tempered blades are sharper
The amazing thing about Gillette's new electrical
tempering process is that, although the steel at the
sides is extra hard, the special process softens the
centre without affecting in any way those harder
edges. Actually, two different temperings in one
blade.
The effect is that the incredibly hard steel at the
sides can be honed to a keener edge than ever
before, yet the centre of the blade is sufficiently
flexible to bend to the razor. Result—not only
closer and cleaner shaves than you've ever had
before, but also more shaves per blade. Ask for
Blue Gillettes —they fit any Gillette razor that has
ever been made.
PACKET OF FIVE, 2/ -
BLUE GILLETTES
ELECTRICALLY-TEMPERED BLADES
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice {except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
L.C.C.: Nothing lyrical about what you call
ivrics SPW ■ Not even our “patriotic
the teeth on edge E.J.8.. Echo of a p
that used to be popular at smoke socials....
J. 0.: Nothing in it J. 8.: A good deal ot it
proved utterly illegible, owing to your type-
writer’s deficiencies. Most of what we could
read we failed to understand... .J.McM.: Hard
to criticise; it’s hopeless W.R.: So you
would define a “rahzoo” as a “bunghole with-
out a cask.” All right; but we can’t offer a
rahzoo for it G.L.: “Peace be with you.
....L.8.: Doggerel Z.F.W.: Jingle
E.S.: Has some tinkle, but falls short other-
wise N.S.: On the trivial side F.M.8.:
Infantile .... C.M.: Unimpressive E.G.:
Capital themes, but there’s a lot lacking in the
craftsmanship... .A.Y.: Very little point to it.
A.H.B.: An old gag made into an uncon-
vincing story E.M.E.: Neat, but not quite
strong enough W.H.P.: Too long and says
too little .J.R.: Murders of prospectors by
partners in deserts becoming much too common.
....F.F.: Portrait commissions aren’t handled
like that Observer: Golf skit weak....
J. 8.: Bits of good humor shot through it, but
subject matter doesn’t appeal... .G.H.H.
(Eng.): Peppery English colonels in Burma
give us a pain W.K.: O. Henry beat you
to those conversational banknotes and did it
better... .Bungle: Close; style is good, but it’s
not quite up as a whole... .E.J.D. (M.L.).: In-
ternational politics and the abdication—can’t
you get a less sordid theme for a short story?
G.J.: Thoughtfully presented, but doesn’t
quite make it J.M.H.: Fails, but it has its
points F.G.: Too short for story, unsuit-
able for par F.M.: You’ll need a newer
angle on that habit to get it through K.C.:
Bagman sketch went well for a while, but
tailed off J.H.: Both sketches have merit,
though too slight. Keep at it... .R.8.H.: You
had the stage all set for some drama, then you
whisked your players 0ff....D.5.: “Dollars,”
“guys,” “West-side”—scram!... .H. 8.: Most
dream stories like yours turn out to be literary
nightmares... .Half-back (Eng.): Articles un-
suitable for u5....A.F.: Neat little sketch, but
on the thin side K.McC.: Dog psychology
well sketched, but stories don’t quite make the
grade... .H.M.McD.: A reduced Captain Hern
might be fixed up with a berth... .Cap. R.:
That one merely an incident, but keep at it....
R.C.8.: It’s been done before... .L.P.: Animal
stories need to be very g00d... .R.G.R.: Not
for us. ...AH.: Idea good, but you fell down
on the j0b....M.K.: Cant place it....
dent... .M.C.: “It is an old story.” And you
haven > t given it any new angles... .C. 8.: It
mjght make a song if you hadn’t got your
dates and sea sons a bit mixed A.S.: “A sky
a p g re en with tranced twilight” sounds like
carrying poetic license overfar.
jq ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS,
, . ,
A.M.: Artist hasn’t graduated from the
kindergarten stage yet C.W.P.: Puzzled as
to why your subjects are floating two or three
feet above the f100r... .N.C.: An amateurish
sketch illustrating a far-fetched pun....W.8.:
Figures look to have been hacked out of lron-
bark with a blunt axe T.D.: Cant see the
characters for the decorative frills.. . .E.W.:
Keep on studying and look us up later....
F.R.: Wash drawings are the muddiest we ve
seen for a long time... .J.C.D.: If you must
work with a brush pick one with _ fewer and
softer hairs... .8.W.: No appreciation for the
dwarfish schoolmistress and her overgrown
pupil... .J.E.: We thought that wheeze had
been buried years ago R.N.C.: Paper you
use is unsuitable for fine penwork... .L.H.:
It must cost you a lot covering your errors
with Chinese white... .T.M.: Caricature re-
markably unlike the person whose name is
underneath... .S.F.D.: No cheque for that....
A.H.C.: Carefully-done drawings, but gags
lack punch.. . .W.G.: Parade of scarecrows,
or is it a picnic party? .. . .S.N.P.: Converting
map of Australia into a human head merely
an idle pastime K. 8.: Easter Show draw-
ing finished among the also-rans... .1.J.: Not
enough sweep in your linework, and the figures
are badly posed... .G. 8.: It cost us sixpence
to inspect your large, smudged effort... .L.W.:
Fair for a youngster, but he wont get far
without lessons... .8.D.: Fishing joke is stale,
and fishermen seem to have been made in a
robot factory.... C.H.: You flop badly when
you try freehand... .F.L.: Cannot judge from
copies ; send some of your originals.. . .1.J.:
Binghi looks like a Kaffir, and the pidgm-bng-
lish gag is very 01d.... A.M.N.: Sketch
crowded with microscopic, freakish figures in-
creases the reject pile.... J.N.8.: Obviously
your pen has not carried out your wishes....
G.C.: A hopeless bunch.
A MIXED GRILL.
“Twenty-seven”: What is it that gives
John Chinaman’s eyes that Oriental
slant? The average guess will have
something to do with an oblique setting,
but the Mongol’s eyes are set at exactly
the same angle in the socket as the
Caucasian’s. The slanting expression is
due to the droop of the upper eyelid,
which covers the little triangle of flesh
discernible in the European’s eye at the
inner corner.
* * * *
“Rufus”: The late Dr. Frodsham, for-
merly Bishop of North Queensland, had
a good sense of humor, which, he always
vowed, he owed to his wife, a Miss
Swinburne, and a cousin of the poet.
The bishop once was being entertained
in a country town to which he had gone
to open a new church. At the luncheon
watermelon appeared as dessert, but no
plates or spoons were provided. The
bishop, helplessly clinging to a generous
slice of the watery fruit, heard a hoarse
whisper from his local churchwarden:
“Spit the seeds on the floor, me lud,”
he advised. The bishop did.
* * * *
“Ike Hollar”: A rough tally shows
the Smiths (without help from the
Smythes) occupying 10| columns in the
N.S.W. telephone directory ; Browns (in-
cluding those with an “e”) 6i columns ;
Joneses columns ; Clarks (and Clarkes)
and Johnsons (and Johnstons) five
columns each ; McDonalds 4\ columns ;
Robinsons columns, and Cohens two
columns. So the Smiths have a long
lead. The Thompsons (with Thomsons),
Campbells and Whites, also the Grahams,
Davises and Davieses, O’Briens and
Hugheses and Kellys, are other clans
which make a good show. Sullivans and
Burkes barely fill three-quarters of a
column apiece.
S? * *
“Swansider”: “If a Forrest precedent
is followed Hughes will be expelled,” says
a political par. (B. 24/2/’37) dealing with
the hostile verdict of a royal commis-
sion on Hughes’s charges against West-
ralian Ministers of the Crown. Obvi-
ously the reference is to the case of
Richard Robson, M.L.A., who in 1900
accused the Forrest Government of being
“rotten and corrupt” and failed to sub-
stantiate his charges before the judicial
tribunal appointed to investigate them.
Robson, by the way, wasn’t expelled from
the Assembly for his laches ; he fore-
stalled such action by resigning his seat.
Another thing worth noting is that the
speech which cooked his goose was made
outside Parliament, whereas Hughes’s
was made in it.
“A. H. Tishoo”: A brisk revival of
the ancient habit of snuff-taking is re-
ported in the Old Country. Quite a
number of different brands are now re-
tailed there at a price ranging round 3d.
the quarter-ounce. I always regarded
snuff-taking as something midway be-
tween chewing and smoking, but other
benefits are claimed for it. It is adver-
tised as the safest and best pick-me-up
for tired motorists, and also as the most
effective protection against ’flu epidemics.
* * * *
“Binns”: When Queensland abolished
the death penalty for murder in favor
of imprisonment for life it followed the
lead of no fewer than eight of the United
States Kansas, Maine, Michigan,
Minnesota, the two Dakotas, Rhode
Island and Wisconsin. In other sections
of Oncle Sam’s domain the convicted
murderer risks a violent end, but there
is difference in methods of execution.
In 17 States the hangman’s noose is still
reckoned the best way of ridding the
world of an unwanted citizen; almost
everywhere else the electric chair has
superseded it. There are two excep-
tions ; Nevada provides for death by
lethal gas and in Utah the condemned
man may take his choice of being hanged
or shot.
* * * *
“Fergus”: Touching on American
magazines losing advertisements of
doubtful tone to the razor-blades of
Maoriland censorship (B. 10/3/’37).
Recently the head of a firm which dis-
tributes overseas periodicals in Maori-
land and Australia declared that Maori-
land wasn’t very keen on American
magazines, preferring, contrary to Aus-
tralia, the better class of English periodi-
cal. Distributors credit the concentrated
city populations of Australia with the
liking for Yankee pulps, for the ratio of
urban to rural population is roughly
three to two in Aussie and two to three
in Maoriland. Another reason for the
different literary preferences of two
British countries separated by only a
thousand sea-miles or so is probably that
in Maoriland libraries, which offer a
better service per head of population,
there is a preponderance of English
magazines.


IS YOUR
ADVERTISING CAMPAIGN
IN
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
SUCCESSFUL?
If not, get in touch with the
Perth’s Leading Weekly—the
Journal with the
HOME CIRCULATION.
Sydney Representative:
HAL J. JOHNSTONE,
Wingello House, Angel Place
Melbourne Representative:
MERVYN S. ALLAN,
368 Collins Street.
"THE AGE' '
Established 1854.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
“The. Age” is a household publication whose
subscribers welcome its receipt, depending upon
its news columns for the accurate information
which day by day covers the broadest possible
survey of the world’s happenings, and upon
its advertising columns to bring to their
attention that- which is required in their
home or business life.
BECOME A SUBSCRIBER.
You will find “The Age” a congenial news-
r paper, with an atmosphere of individual and
personal appeal.'
Price lid. per copy at all newsagents and
bookstalls, or 12/- per . quarter post free
within the Commonwealth.
“THE AGE” FOR ADVERTISING.
Publishes about 1,000,000
Advertisements Annually.
Advertising rates on application to the principal
Advertising Service Agents in all States or—
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 117 Pitt Street.
London Office: 3 Temple Avenue.
DO NOT
let your customers
change to something
different. Keep in
touch with them over
the week-end and let
them read of your
excellent products in
“The Mail"
ADELAIDE, S.A.
On SUNDAY
That is the day your cus-
tomers have most time to
ponder over the good things
of life.
RATES from:
P. A. MESSENGER. Warwick Build-
ings, Hamilton street. Sydney.
A. G. PIKE, Newspaner House,
Collins street. Melbourne.
Effective Coverage
of Wellington, the capital
city of New Zealand, is
certain through the
columns of
“The Evening Post”
which enters 19 out of
* every 20 homes in the
city and urban areas.
FIRST IN SALES, IN-
FLUENCE, PRESTIGE
AND IN THE QUAN-
TITY OF LOCAL AND
NATIONAL ADVERTIS-
ING CARRIED.
The Evening Post
(Blundell Bros., Ltd., Props.)
For particulars and rates apply to
any accredited advertising agency-
Things Are Looking Up
During 1936 Broken Hill’s population increased
by 1640 to well over 28,000. The number of-
men employed along the line of lode rose 742
to 4295 and the wages paid by the mines alone
soared from approximately £27,000 to £30,000
weekly.
And prospects for 1931 are even brighter.
LET...
" The Barrier Miner "
carry your message to this rich market—you
just can’t afford to ignore it 1
Further details can be had from
A. G. PIKE,
Newspaper House,
Melbourne.
p. A. MESSENGER,
Warwick Bldg.,
Sydney.
NEWS, LTD., North Terrace, Adelaide.
o _ i
in ADVERTISING
A 10 per cent,
increased circula-
tion for 1934-35
means better
cover for you.
Behind the service offered to Advertisers in “The
Examiner’’ (Eist. 1842), the only daily in Laun-
ceston, is the experience and goodwill of nearly
a century of publication,
“THE EXTMiNER’S” ADVERTISE-
MENTS REACH THE HOMES IN
LAUNCESTON AND THE NORTH.
(Jfatnim*
"AUDIT
■BUREAU OP-
CIRCULATIONS^
023
Full Information, Copies, Advertising' Rates from
. R. ROLPH & SONS PTY., LTD., 71-75 Paterson St., Launceston.
S. ALLAN, N.S.W. Bank Chambers, 368 Collins St., Melbourne, C.l.
N. SCOTT, 9 Bligh St., Sydney.
S-T-R-E-T-C-H
YOUR MONEY
That’s why BAM has its aerial
on top of the ranges—so that
its programmes will cover the
'State—so that the advertiser’s
message will reach the maximum
number of listeners, and bring
maximum results.
6AM
Prince's Chambers,
William Street,
Perth,
Western Australia-
—what is it but that? To be able to laugh at what
other people think, even take enjoyment in shocking
them. And this life—we do not belong to it.
“You mightn’t. I do.”
“For how long? Till the end of your days, eh?”
“I don’t reckon on always being a fisherman, but
it’s a beginning, the first step towards real indepen-
dence. And if we could get the game organised on
a decent commercial basis”
“Ah! Your father shows in you already, Neil.”
“Rot! Because I choose to think ahead a little.”
“My dear boy, I’ve seen the same thing over and
over. Conflict! The new life fights against the old.
A long battle, the two merged in deadly struggle. At
last—triumph! The new conquers, becomes what it
fought against.”
“Off on one of your deep-sea cruises again, Leo!
I don’t know what the hell you’re talking about.”
“No? Well, let us not quarrel, Neil. It is my
little joke.” He thumped Neil affectionately on the
shoulder, passed the matter off lightly. Their argu-
ments nowadays usually ended in that way.
BUT the slight breach between them and the other
fishermen had driven them gradually in the direc-
tion of the colored people, leading them to spend
most of their time ashore not in the Crown and
Anchor or other pubs along the front but among the
hovels of the estuary.
They had come to like the quarter now, to feel
they were part of it. That happy-go-lucky way of
living, that readiness to feast to-day without troubling
about a hungry to-morrow even Besanck felt its
attraction. How piquant to be able to wander freely
into these caverns of houses, to play with the
youngsters, tease the old women, while barefooted
girls with roguish eyes and slack bodies stood around
giggling at his audacities, his flow of strange word^!
It was Charlie who was the main link between
'them and the inhabitants of Luggertown. He was
proud of his association with the Kestrel, prouder still
of the people to whom he belonged by blood. There
was his sister, Myra, a slim girl of seventeen with
liquid grape-dark eyes and the grace of a young foal:
there was his uncle Albert, the acknowledged boss
of the quarter, a naive, powerful bully of a man, deal-
ing out justice in a heavy-handed way to his numerous
satellites and relations. Various scandals were whis-
pered about Albert, but latterly he had been living
on good terms with the police, who valued his help
in keeping order. It was better to have Albert as an
ally than an enemy.
Charlie’s respect for the old scoundrel was un-
bounded. “My uncle a word from him and the
devil go quick out of anyone who want to make
trouble.”
He could not speak of him without a faint
chuckle, a pious drop of the voice. There was some-
thing about the big Torres Islander that intimidated
all who came near him. Low-browed, pugnacious,
thick-witted except in matters of money and dealing,
he had won his authority by the sheer heat of his
blood: when he was angry passion poured through
him in a torrent, his oaths, his bullish roar carrying
all over the quarter. Once he had served a year in
gaol for savaging a policeman who had tried to ran-
sack his place for sly grog, but that only added to his
prestige, which was based solidly on the ownership
of three boats, a broken-down Ford and a couple of
houses.
Albert’s hospitality was not, one gradually dis-
covered, entirely a matter of generous impulse. There
was usually beer to be had, at a sharp price, in one
of the little dark rooms of the underhouse. It was
an arrangement, he hinted, less for his own profit than
for public convenience. No licence would be issued
to any place in Luggertown, and it was a long way
to the port. He was asserting the rights of those of
his own color, and besides, there were even white
people who benefited by his forethought when the
pubs closed.
Exuberant, heavy-minded Albert! Dominating
the mood of the place now by his scowl, now by the
bursts of wild melody that came from his lungs. He
had a natural gift for music, and while he sang a
childlike simplicity spread over his face, transforming
it, smoothing out its grossness. To Neil, squatting in
the shadows by the wall, feeling still an outsider in
spite of his frequent visits, he revealed himself in
volcanic pidgin: “While I live I want happy. Not
worry all the time. When a man sing he no worry.
His head light, his blood flow easy. You understand
that?” . *
“I think I do. But I’m no singer, Albert.”
“Very bad luck, that bad. Suppose you sit
alone in the boat at night fishing and no sing—little
worry, big worry, come around you quick. Bite you
here, bite you there. This man you owe a debt. That
man owe you money and don’t pay. Think, think —
it drive you mad. But when a man sing nothing come
near to torment him. Not no more. He happy.”
Tapping of the kettledrum, shuffling of naked
feet on the stained floor, weaving of dark figures under
the dim lights, men in Jackie Howe singlets and rolled-
up trousers ; girls whose thin one-piece frocks clung
to their hips, their ample breasts. And always the
queer smells, insistent, richly anonymous, hinting
vaguely at fish-oil, exotic spices, bananas ripening
beneaths beds in the dark.
IT was easy to surrender to the spell of this back-
' water life. Its rhythm seemed to correspond with
that of the sea, of the boat itself: long, lazy move-
ments varied by storms that whirled up suddenly,
often without warning, bracing the muscles, quickening
the blood. When they had come in late from the
Reef it was pleasanter to slip up to Albert’s than to
change th.eir clothes and trudge up through the dark
to the port, looking for distraction in the streets or at
the moving-pictures. The town was a less homelike
place since it had been given over to tourists. You
couldn’t tell yourself, as you stared at the bright
stucco palaces, that it was your trade kept them going.
You couldn’t even stray into Diego’s cafe by the
post office without feeling you were some strange
fowl from the sea. And the Jensens had gone away,
Peter to a contract up the coast, Anna on a series of
visits to friends on surrounding cane-farms. There
had been no word of Freda since the meeting on the
island.
Fully occupied with his work, exultant over the
easy way he had slipped into a life new to him, Neil
thought very little about her, let her image grow dim
in his mind. It was satisfying to feel himself in com-
plete harmony with Leo again. All those bright days
of winter they found nothing to pull them up sharply
in a conflict of opposed wills. Happy crowded weeks
at sea, diverting nights ashore watching the queer
comedy of Luggertown! Their worries about money
were ended for the time being: they had cleared off
all debts and would have a good balance to fall back
on when the slack season began again.'
But Besanck gradually drew away from the
colored people, his curiosity about them satisfied, as
soon as their strangeness was worn off by close contact.
There was his instinctive distrust for whatever was
primitive, near the earth: it never remained hidden
for long. Lying on his bunk with the petrol-lamp
beside him, he smiled tolerantly at Neil coming back
from Albert’s after midnight. “Well, you still feel
happy among these people, Neil?”
Flushed with drink, drowsy from lack of sleep,
Neil looked up perfunctorily as he kicked off his
clothes. “Why not? They’re good company.”
“That is what I find at first. So friendly, so
amusing to watch. Why can we not learn to be as
simple? But afterwards No, it is all sentiment.
They are just one degree above the animals.”
“There’s no satisfying you, Leo. You’re so
damned fastidious.”
“Fastidious? You look on that as a fault, eh?
My dear boy, it is a quality one acquires after weigh-
ing much experience. And what have these people,
after all? Charm? So have the birds, and all things
that are wild.”
“Well, isn’t that enough?”
“For me, no. One becomes bored with it in
the end. What is important in men is their minds —
what they have discovered by reason. To let yourself
be attracted by what has no mind —that is second
childhood, that is the romantic madness. Me, I am
not romantic.”
“Same old ring o’ roses, Leo. You’ve got that
infernal kink that won’t let you enjoy anything simple.”
“I enjoy many things from the outside. But I
refuse to become part of them, give myself over.
Let us go back to the earth. Let us become as animals
or little children ... No, my dear Neil, the invitation
does not excite me. I prefer, even if I go with broken
boots, dirty, to keep hold of my civilised being.”
His civilised being! Neil chuckled as, undressing
for the night, he surveyed the lean figure stretched
along the upper bunk, smeared about the face with
engine-oil, naked except for the crumpled pyjama
trousers. There was something of the Indian fakir
about his pose. Leo would always be like that, giving
himself with zest to new streams of life, then retiring
to coil himself up in a conception of his own integrity.
No need to worry about any spell he might have cast
over Freda.
(To be continued next week.)


(Jliis masterpiece is (Perfection
J the spirit he always serves.
t t
£-V
m
m
m
W
IS-
Sv»«
w.
'A
w>.
7jL Mz/ne
r
JS
W'l
UJU«jw*44*|**sB<P^
ClrCxllum's
(IfOdlurn's
Scots (Übisky
t(,M«vKsN ( rov<M>«l
DISTRIBUTORS FOR THE HOUSE OF McCALLUM:
GOLDSBROUGH, MORT & CO., LTD., Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane. GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Adelaide.
LIONEL SAMPSON & SON, Fremantle. MACFARLANE BROS. & CO., Hobart.
POST THIS SUP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK'S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
-
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 Seorge Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- {plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
X
V A
O _\> e
&*>&s&s■
NM e ? V) 6 f&C e /1 T <f ( o A'"
* «V V -v\3 -
\0
; s 6;,
;^" 6
i'*
X s *
/
#
>$ S
vO^
«**«<£'
’■ 9 e |o^
' ,-••
.. ■ „«; to^Vy*'
O


FOR
CURE
.
w
BAP
O down to your chemist or
store and buy a bottle of
Bidomak if your husband is
showing signs of irritability.
Nine times out of ten “nerves”
are the cause of bad-temper, and
nerves are caused by “mineral
starvation/ Perhaps that may
seem strange to you—but people
who have tried everything else
have been amazed at the
immediate, quick, happy results
which come from the use of a
mineral food supplement such as
Bidomak. Bidomak contains
the vital food minerals without
which, leading dieticians tell us,
life would be impossible. Its
use as directed changes grumpy,
tired men into fit, well, vigorous
personalities again.
Read These
Remarkable Letters
34 Herbert Street, Dulwich Hill, N.S.W.,
9th February, 1936.
Douglas Drug Co.-
Dear Sir, —/ would like to explain to you
the amazing result that l gained mentally and
physically from “Bidomak.”
/ work as a Terazzo hand, which is very
hard work.
Somehow, I became very run down and
nervy, and found by ten o’clock in the morning
that l had exhausted the whole of my energy
and could not go on. Approaching Xmas, as
usual in the building trade, there is a general
falling-off of trade and a general retrenchment
takes place in all industries directly connected
with the building trade. I knew for certain I
was marked down to be put off work.
In desperation / visited a Chemist. He
impressed me to try “Bidomak.” Fortunate for
me I did. With the first bottle l knew that it
was doing me a lot of good, so I just kept it
up. My nervy feelings disappeared, 1 regained
my energy, 100 p.c. sleep is a pleasure, eating
also, and the amount of work l am able to do
has placed me in my job, therefore you will
understand that I really have given “Bidomak”
a good, fair trial and can with every convic-
tion give a reliable testimonial.
I can safely say that “Bidomak” really did
this for me, gave me a new lease of life, kept
me in employment and is keeping me as fit
as the proverbial fiddle. “Bidomak” does really
give lost energy back.
Yours faithfully,
(Signed ) STEPHEN BARRY.
Marvellous Results from “Bidomak”
Not Rubbish—Really Genuine.
[Copy] South Kensington, Sydney, N.S.W.,
23rd July, 1936.
The Douglas Drug Co.
Dear Sir, —I cannot sufficiently thank you
for “Bidomak.” The results are marvellous,
even after the first dose I felt the benefit,
having been recommended by my chemist to
take it. I have taken many tonics, but never
anything like “Bidomak.” It is also very nice
to take. I shall take care to pass it on to
everybody I meet, and wish you every blessing
and success to your firm in the years to come.
There is so much rubbish sold that it is with
deep appreciation I write this to find something
which is really genuine.
Yours sincerely, (Signed) R.C.
Benefit Guaranteed
OR YOU PAY NOTHING
So many nerve sufferers have obtained
immediate relief from BIDOMAK that if
you do not benefit from the first bottle we
will refund your money within 14 days of
purchase on its return, nearly empty, to
the Douglas Drug Co. Thus we guarantee
you positive relief or you pay nothing.
HOW MINERAL STARVATION CAN BE RECOGNISED
The loss of mineral elements in the body is due to the strain and stress of modern life and
the fact that these losses are hot replaced by our daily food supply. Fo begin with, they
show themselves in an insidious loss of energy and vitality. The power to concentrate is lost.
Then other symptoms crowd upon the sufferer. He loses his spirit, the desire to exert
himself fails—his appetite weakens—he gets oversensitive and quick tempered.
Sometimes he becomes the victim of indigestion, neuritis, headaches and subject to fits of
depression. Altogether the mineral-starved man becomes a less efficient member of society.
The more youthful jump over his head in business. Socially, he becomes a back number.
Thus, through lack of vital mineral food he loses his ability to enjoy life and to win success.
No wonder he “snaps,” even at those most dear to him.
What a tragedy this is! But it need be a tragedy no longer. Bidomak can now replace the
vital minerals and bring the sufferer back to vigour and vitality. Energy returns—life looks
brighter—daily tasks become easy—the power of concentration returns —temper improves
and irritability vanishes—confidence grows quickly as vigour and nerve strength return. It
is like a miracle how the ferrum, calcium, sodium, potash, phosphates, glycerophosphates
and sucrose in Bidomak combine to provide a new savour to life, even in the worst cases.
No Dangerous Drugs
Remember, too, that Bidomak is a food. It contains no bitter, dangerous narcotic drugs
nor opiates. On the other hand, Bidomak is safe for the youngest children, who take it
readily because of its very pleasant flavour. Get a bottle from your chemist or store TO-DAY.
BIDOMAK
c? <3>
ALL >
CHEMISTS
AND
STORES
TniahwVlliWiWm irt im* ■ ’r u ty '•'•'• '- x 4
nisi?
4 *
sss
U
• 1»
m
saw*
>V\V
SS&a&XSKSS
HS
WW ?
“The Tonic of the Century 55
For Women and Children Too !
No other tonic is so good for all as Bidomak. Not only
men, but women and children too, find new life and vigour
in the big Bidomak bottle. Benefit is guaranteed or you
may have your money back.
THESE ARE THE BENEFITS
GIVEN BY BIDOMAK
1. Ends Mineral Starvation by providing ferrum,
calcium, potassium, sodium, phosphates, gly-
cerophosphates and sucrose.
2. Gives you a good appetite.
3. Brings sweet sleep.
4. Strengthens nerves.
5. Relieves stomach upsets.
6. Builds energy, “pep” and endurance.
7. Clears out body wastes from every cell of the
body by increasing the amount of oxygen in
the blood stream. ' „
8. Creates rich red blood, new healthy nerve cells
and nerve fluid.
9. Makes you feel well all over!
