

4/
''
r
7$
l
: :
?,v,V>/*.v
SERVICE
An efficient fire-fighting organi-
sation, using specialised know-
ledge and technical equipment,
protects your property.
Your investments should be
similarly protected by utilising
the services of expert investment
advisers.
Ask for particulars of Hamiltons y advice service .
Mam Atom ( Australasia) limited
INVESTMENT AND FINANCIAL ADVISERS
AUTHORISED CAPITAL: £250,000.
Head Offices KEMBLA BUILDING, MARGARET STREET, SYDNEY.
’Phones: 8W1146 and 1147. (G.P.O. Box 375255.)
Branch Offices: Commercial Bank Chambers, Beardy Street, Armidale, N.S.W.—’Phone, Armidale 150; Box No. 123 Armidale.
VICTORIA:
Metropolitan Building,
89-9! Queen Street,
Melbourne.
G.P.O. Box 520 J.
QUEENSLAND:
Bth Floor,
A.M.P. Chambers,
Edward Street,
Brisbane,
G.P.O. Box 101 7N.
k
QUEENSLAND:
Bank of N.S.W. Chambers,
Flinders Street,
Townsville.
G.P.O. Box 280.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
C.M.L. Building,
King William Street,
Adelaide.
G.P.O. Box 650 F.
The Bulletin
Vol. 58.—N0. 3003.
Wednesday, September 1, 1937.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


DYMOCK’S NEW LIBRARY
CATALOGUE FOR 1937
is now ready and will be forwarded post free
with terms and particulars on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
“The Block,”
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
Visit
THE AUSTRALIAN ART
EXHIBITION
The Macleod Gallery,
Bulletin Buildings, 252 George Street
(Near Bridge Street).
Latest Pictures by leading Aus-
tralian Artists. Gallery now
reopened after renovations and
rearrangement.
ADMISSION FREE.
Tel., 87971.
S. H. Prior Memorial Prize
Fourth Competition Closes June 6, 1938.
Full particulars of this annual literary award will be published
here from time to time, or may be had on application to The
Bulletin, 252 George-street, Sydney.
For this current competition only novels are eligible, and the
Prize will be awarded to that which is considered the most
outstanding contribution to Australian literature.
The trustees will publish the successful work in book form,
and in serial form any they may deem worthy. If published as a
serial the winner will be paid for at serial rates in addition to the
prize-money. Any others used as serials will also be paid for at
serial rates.
Any bona fide Australian resident or any person born in
Australia, New Zealand or British South Pacific islands will be
eligible to enter for the competition works which must be the
original work of the entrants, and previously unpublished, either
wholly or in part, in book or serial form. Manuscripts must be
submitted under a nom de plume, and the true name and address
of the author must accompany each entry in a sealed envelope,
which will not be opened until the judges have made their decision.
The trustees reserve the right to withhold the Prize if no work
submitted is, in the opinion of the judges, worthy of an award.
If this should occur in any year, the amount of the Prize will be
added to the following year’s Prize.
The Red Page
AN OLD BUFFER'S LAMENT.
A “Pink ’Un” Remembers: J. B. Booth (T.
Werner Laurie ; 215.), is mainly a lament for certain
phases of English social life that passed away during
the war and early post-war years, never, it would
seem, to return. Mr. Booth, who was for some years
assistant editor and dramatic critic of the “Sporting
Times,” sorrows for a London that is no more, but
the burden of his jeremiad is applicable to any large
town in Australasia. He’s not a very old old buffer,
being still on the sunny side of 60, but one qualifies
for old bufferdom as soon as one begins to sigh “Those
were the days!” Quite irrational, of course, and
showing no gratitude for that mighty onrush of science
and invention which fills our streets with motor-cars,
our skies with aeroplanes, our ears with fanfares from
loudspeakers, and our theatres with ghosts on sheets.
But old buffers are captious, and perhaps a little
oversentimental. For instance, what Mr. Booth seems
most to regret in the world that has gone is the han-
som cab. Well, it certainly was a very comfortable
vehicle, and, as Rudyard Kipling remarked, it’s ques-
tionable whether motor-cars can possibly take people
to as much sheer fun as was lying about last century.
Mr. Booth brings back a memory—
the clink and rattle of that iron rod beneath the
hansom which was let down as a support when the
cab was on the rank. As the first cab in the waiting
line drove off with its fare, the patient horses of their
own volition automatically “moved up one,” and the
iron supporting rods clinked and rattled as they dragged
forward over the stones.
There’s only one hansom cabby left in The
Bulletin’s end of Sydney now —his stand’s near the
corner of Bridge and Pitt streets —but the clop-clop-
clop of Dolly’s hoofs no longer mingles with the
frenzied hooting of mechanical juggernauts, for her
owner has bought her a set of rubber shoes.
Mr. Booth heaves one of his most expansive sighs
over the passing from London’s West End of the
music-halls. In particular the Empire, the Alhambra
and the Pavilion have succumbed to the rolling tide
of celluloid. The Tivoli died just before the war, but
the others did a lot to keep patriotic sentiment boil-
ing during the four black years. War-time and music-
halls connect themselves immediately with “Tipper-
ary,” about which Mr. Booth has something interest-
ing to disclose —not the old argument about the
authorship, which was long ago settled in favor of
Jack Judge, but concerning the ditty’s Empire-wide
popularity. Mr. Booth says it was never a favorite
soldier song, and owed its fame to the purest fluke.
A “Daily Mail” reporter heard some recruits of the
first Expeditionary Force chanting it as they dis-
embarked at Boulogne; it was one of a score of
songs sung by the troops on that occasion, but it
happened to be the one that got bold mention in
print. Much more of a genuine soldier song was
“Kafoozelum,” which Booth quotes in extenso.
There’s room here for the last verse, which, as Kip-
ling said, is “poetry by any canon”:
And still the ancient legend goes
When day has gone from Lebanon,
And when the morning moonlight throws
Her shadows on Jerusalem,
Above the wailing of the cats
A sound there falls from ruined walls—
A ghost is seen, in three old hats,
A-kissing of Kafoozelum!
The R.F.C. adopted as its anthem a variation
up to date of “The Dying Lancer”:
A handsome young airman lay dying
And as on the aer’drome he lay
To mechanics who round him came sighing
These last dying words did he say:
“Take the cylinders out of my kidneys,
The connecting-box out of my brain,
The cambox from under my backbone
And assemble the engine again!”
Mr. Booth has a word in praise of melodrama
(a word long overdue in a world that doesn’t realise
that it is the most effective stuff in the films). He
makes the point that it was only laughable when it
was badly acted. He recalls the days when Terriss
and Jessie Millward reigned at the old Adelphi:—
The secret of their triumph in this particular theatri-
cal genre was simply that they could, better than any
actor or actress of their time, carry melodrama to
breaking-point without breaking; could give it “from the
chest” without appearing ridiculous or naive. They
were first-rate players of melodrama simply because
they were first-rate players.
There’s just room for one little extract from Mr.
Booth’s cricket reminiscences a tribute to Victor
Trumper. Ranjitsinhji was asked how Grace, at his
best, compared with the Australian. “You can’t
compare them,” said Ranji. “Each at his best
was incomparable. Trumper, too, was a pioneer.
If he’d been at Eton 20 years ago he’d never
have got his colors. His strokes would have been
damned as unorthodox. All reformers are called
heretics at first.”
The Woman Who Says She Did.
When Aimee Crocker’s And I’d Do It Again was
published last year an American critic saw in it “a
portrait of a woman as she would like to be seen,
as she sees herself through the mists of memory, a
heroine of dream and wish-fulfilment.” Her book
apparently sold well enough in America to justify an
English edition, which now comes to us as Without
Regrets (Robert Hale ; 12s. 6d.).
Aimee’s adventures began in the late ’eighties and
progressed as a sideline with gentlemen of color
while Aimee was collecting and discarding white hus-
bands: —she had five of them, not one of whom
appears as a hero in her book of reminiscences and
only three are mentioned, the last one on the title
page. “Husbands are not people,” says Aimee.
Daughter of wealthy Californians, she had money
enough to do what she liked, and did it. Early in her
life, while “finishing” in Europe, her open flirtations
were so violent that her mother decided it was time
she went back home, but she had no sooner landed
there than, at 17, she eloped with a young spark
of 21.
She had just time to have a baby before she was
divorced, which set her free to indulge her fancies.
She had been “touched by the finger of the East”
when she was 10, through the purchase of a Chinese
bed (note the symbolistic touch), and it beckoned her
to Japan on her second honeymoon. Her husband
was suddenly recalled to San Francisco for business.
Did she accompany him? Not Aimee. She remained
to have an affair with a Japanese baron, who rented
a house for her with a bedroom in red lacquer.
Unfortunately the baron had a mind like her
own, and fell in love with a beautiful American
blonde and asked her not to marry but to “love”
him. She was free, white and over 21, and cracked
him across the face with a whip. Whereupon he went
away and committed hara-kiri, and Aimee lost “one
of the best, one of the kindest, one of the most glori-
ous men I have ever known.”
But she was not cured. No. She went back to
America, divorced husband No. 2 and caught the
next boat for Hong Kong, where, on a visit to a high-
class low joint, she met a magnetic six-foot-six Man-
churian who owned all the vice-dens in the foreign
settlements. He magnetised her on to his yacht for
three weeks, but that was only the start of it. She
left him because she feared him, but —
I would not have missed the experience of Huan Kai
for all the world, But marry him? Never. Love him?
Ridiculous. Admire him? Enjoy him? Well, I’m a
woman . . .
Still she is not satisfied. She goes to Java, and at
Bandoeng was not unwillingly abduqted by a native
prince of Borneo, name given. Here she falls down
so badly that doubt is definitely thrown on the rest
of her story. She says she was taken to a small
river, put into a boat and in 25 minutes was boarding
a modern yacht on the open sea. Bandoeng is 2500 ft.
above sea level and over 80 miles from the nearest
seaport of Cheribon, and she couldn’t be taken in a
boat from Bandoeng to the sea anyway.
Next stop Bombay, and adventures with a maha-
rajah—her alleged lovers are all princes or noblemen
of some sort. She tells not only of her own adven-
tures, but of those of others even more extraordinary.
She may have had these experiences or she may
not; but no one will object to her thinking them, if
she gets any pleasure out of that in her old age.
Commencing Next Week.
"NO TRAIN ON TUESDAY,"
A Serial Novel by J. B. BLAIR.
Terrigan, a small N.S.W. South Coast town, has
had its Tuesday train service discontinued.
The Terriganians revolt against this crowning
tyranny of the central Government, and deter-
mine to secede from the Commonwealth. The
Prime Minister is in London, the Minister for
Defence, too, and there is an election coming.
The Terrigan Revolt becomes a National Issue.
It’s light-hearted fun.
Love in War-time.
The publisher informs us on the jacket of The
World Strides On (Andrew Melrose ; 7s. 6d.), trans-
lation by Lynton Hudson, that its author, Michael
Foldi, is acknowledged as Hungary’s foremost psycho-
logical novelist and that Budapest is coming to replace
Vienna as the city of romance in popular imagination.
The book is a psychological romance.
The story opens in the dissecting department of
the medical school of the University of Budapest in
1912. Ilona Szakacs and Nicholas Megyeri are medical
students, both poor and both ambitious. The girl has
the stronger character and the greater ability. She is
the leader, the boy the happy sharer in her victorious
progress. The slow, unconscious development of love
between them is delicately portrayed. It is while they
are on holiday in Berlin with Ilona’s mother in
July, 1914, that their love unfolds. In a moment
they are flotsam and jetsam on a tidal wave of war.
In the new world Ilona’s gift for friendship goes
for nothing. The war calls the bluff of Nicholas’s
manhood. He volunteers, is sent to the Serbian front,
wounded, taken prisoner, his death announced in the
university bulletin. Ilona waits a year in a world
growing darker and harder, then she marries a well-
to-do middle-aged professor. Nicholas returns, and,
though both are changed by their experiences, the old
love flares up, but now it is bitter and difficult. Other
lives are involved, that of Eva Gungl, who loves
Nicholas, and Schiganell, who loves Eva. Between
them they weave a tortuous emotional pattern. The
knot is cut by death. It is a history of tragic inconse-
quences.
It is obviously the author’s intention to take com-
monplace lives and show upon them the effect of a
violent and arbitrary cataclysm. He penetrates beyond
the distortion of event to the distortion that was
brought to the characters and feelings of those driven
willy-nilly to be actors in it. The book explores the
war psychologically with considerable subtlety.
The book is incisively written; much of it is con-
veyed in dialogue. The author is a Skilled craftsman,
but he never forces this aspect of his art on his readers.
He gives them the facts and trusts them to make their
own deductions —a faith not often found in writers.
The World Strides On challenges comparison with
another Hungarian war book, Heltai’s Two Prisoners,
published four or five years ago. With similar subject-
matter it lacks the power and haunting sadness of
Heltai’s book, which conquers through the emotions
where Foldi- seeks to convince through the mind.
Children in Divorce.
In a long writing career E. M. Delafield has
become famous for her gentle social satire and her
portraits of children. She has few peers when it
comes to describing the trials of the vicar’s wife or
how the duchess opened the village fete, and few have
entered more deeply into the servant question and the
problem of the selfish husband.
In her latest novel, Nothing Is Safe (Macmillan ;
7s. 6d.), she combines both her talents. It is the story
of two children, Julia, aged 10, and Terry, aged 12,
whose parents have divorced and married again, so
that they belong to two families and have no home.
Everyone is steadfastly determined to treat them well,
but they are a serious problem and do not fit in with
anyone’s plans. They are smothered with affection at
one moment and at the next they overhear heated
arguments as to what is to be done with them in the
holidays. They are passed inconsequently from their
grandmother at one extreme of country respectability
to a step-grandmother at the other end of Bohemia,
fobbed off on servants or parked at their mother’s
club. We are witnesses to the complete disintegration
of their childish world.
Julia is a sturdy, competent little girl, rather greedy
in a pleasant way, but Terry is highly strung, nervous
and difficult. Julia’s first instinct is always to shield and
defend him, and only with her can he be natural and
happy. His stepfather tries to make a man of him,
with disastrous results. His own father, alarmed by
the boy’s increasing nervousness, takes him to a psy-
chotherapist, Dr. Dubillier. Here, E. M. Delafield’s
gift, but' more astringent than usual, is brought into
play. The doctor conducts lengthy investigations, with
the children politely and inexorably giving him the
answers they think he wants and keeping back every-
thing of importance. At last, with ultra-sophistication,
he discovers the root of Terry’s trouble to be in the
love and influence of his sister, and so it is decided
to separate the children. They are kept in ignorance
of what is before them, but Julia guesses.
The book is told entirely through the mind of
Julia, which lends it, from the adult standpoint, rather
a false pathos, everything being translated into terms
of shrewd innocence ; also there is an insipid simplifi-
cation of life into terms of its surface. E. M. Dela-
field is not to be blamed for this. She follows a tra-
dition. There are many who write in the same vein,
but few who do it as well.
Last Days of Troy.
Laura Riding has come out of her somewhat
rarefied literary world—the world of Progress of
Stories —to write a novel. A Trojan Ending (the
Seizin Press and Constable ; 9s. 6d.) is a little rarefied,
too, complete as it is with a glossary of names, a
map and a 20-page explanatory preface, but it is a
very interesting and in some ways a remarkable book.
The author has set herself a difficult task. She
has endeavored to reconstruct the story of the fall
of Troy without modernising it, and, just as Euripides’s
Trojan Women was the reconstruction of the fall of
(Continued on page 8.)


‘Truth in Advertising”—and in every act.
‘THE SENIOR STORE.’
ANTHONY HORDERNS
FOR THE CRICKET SEASON 1937-38
•* ..ZM
i vmBI
wmmm
mrnm
■ £ i- >V : <- r W £
- - *:nt
/
*)
WWW!*****
.
1
.1 *
wwt
111
-mm
■ i
a f
•m
*W.IA.S
IIP:
V# - '
V
i teMMHHMni mmmsbm -
/7\
# CRICKET
BOOTS
f >ll
«' . .’vt * ■/ / ll'iO?
7H-
j
n
N^r
%
V > .-'
With Stout Sewn Soles
In full and half sizes
The keen sportsman must have comfort-
able boots for his game. And “Tree”
Brand Boots are made for long wear.
Excellent value, too. Fine grade White
Canvas with sewn soles. At Anthony
Horderns’ 18/6
Also with extra stout genuine welted
soles. White Buck. Price, pair . . 2 7/6
SEND FOR
A FREE COPY
OF OUR
CRICKET
CATALOGUE
Clothes for cricket wear must give long service—and that is only ensured
when they are of such quality as is always associated with goods from
Anthony Horderns’. Well cut, hard wearing—and surprisingly moderate
in price. Here are just the clothes and equipment you need for the
coming Cricket Season.
A.—White Mercerised Twill SHIRTS
Cricketers insist that their shirts be well fitting, though roomy;
that is why Anthony Horderns’ Shirts are so much in demand.
Made in their own workrooms. Collar attached and long
sleeves. Sizes 14£in. to
White Mercerised Twill.
White British Poplin.
White Spun Silk Rayon.
Cream Velnit Morley’s make. Price .. .
Natural Fuji Silk, medium weight. Price
Natural Fuji Silk, double double. Prices
Cream Clydella Flannel. Price
1 Bin. necks.
Prices 5/6, 6/6, 8/6
Prices 5/6, 7/6
Price 7/6
9/6
lO/6
12/6, 14/6
l9/6
WOOL & COTTON CRICKET SOCKS
Cricket Socks made for really serviceable wear. A
heavy ribbed Wool and Cotton mixture. Sizes, 10 to
1 inch foot. At Anthony Horderns’ 2/6
26
8.-CREAM All Wool PULLOVERS
This is the Pullover you need to complete your cricket
outfit. It is of Cream All Wool in a smart
honeycomb knit. Made with V-neck and long sleeves.
Club stripes on neck and pockets. Sizes 36 to 40 in.
chest. At Anthony Horderns’ 13/6
13%
C.—CORRECT CREAM TROUSERS
Cricket Trousers must be comfortable. We suggest
any of these well-known brands—“Gripu,” “Elasta
Strap,” “Slaks,” “Snugfit”; also our own makes in
Self Supporting. Prices, 21/-, 23/-, 28/6, 35/-.
Our Own Make—
Prices 13/6, 19/6, 22/6, 25/-, 30/-.
D.- White Pique Sports CAPS, 2'S
Made with unbreakable peaks and finished silk lining. Price 2/6
White Linen Caps, ventilated in front. Unlined. Taped seams. Green under
peaks. Price . . 3/9
Coloured Flannel Cricketing Caps. Unbreakable Peaks. Navy, Royal, Maroon
and Dark Greens. Prices 2/3, 3/3
WE TAILOR CLUB BLAZERS TO YOUR SPECIFICATIONS
Just write and tell us what your Blazer requirements are. We supply
Clubs with expertly tailored Blazers in plain flannels, any shade. Also
striped Blazers woven to your own color combinations. Quotations
given club secretaries on application. Designs submitted without charge.
0 Men’s Wear and Mercery—Ground Floor, George Street. Freight paid to
all railway stations in N.S.W. and seaports in the Commonwealth.
CRICKET BATS
as used by Australia's Famous Batsman, Jack Fingleton
An extraordinarily advantageous purchase of the maker’s EXTRA SEASON STOCK enables us
to offer a number of the famous autograph bats by Lambert and used by Jack Fingleton,
Australia’s famous Batsman. These are the identical Bats with which he opens the innings.
$ Lambert-Fingleton (XXXX Grade).
Price .... 52/6. Special .... 27/6
0 Lambert-Fingleton (XXX Grade).
Price .... 42/6. Special .... 27/6
£ Lambert-Fingleton (XX Grade).
Price .... 35/-. Special .... 25/
£ Lambert-Renown (XX Grade).
Price ... 25/-. Specials ... 19/6, 21/
• ERINOID PLUG STOPS SPLITTING AT SPLICE
The Erinoid Plug inserted at the base of the cleft prevents this always. This
pierce spot is a patent feature of every Lambert Bat.
• EVERY BAT READY FOR USE AT ONCE
Every Lambert Bat is not just “rolled.” The blade is hammered and oiled ready lor
play. Every handle is of manifold compressed canes with treble rubber buffers. Pliant,
strong, resilient drivers. Every bat fitted with non-slip rubber grip,
§ Sports Department —Lower Ground Floor, Pitt Street. Freight paid.
K. V
/


Mr. Bundle Rides to Hounds
THE POOR JEST
BY E MARY GURNEY
ILLUSTRATED BY M. LYNN GURNEY.
BORN in the city of Auckland, it had never
occurred to Mr. Bundle that twenty minutes
and the expenditure of a shilling on the subur-
ban railways would take him into the country.
Had such an idea entered his head it is doubtful if
he would have taken advantage of it, for his was a
satisfied and uncurious mind.
Entering life as a remarkably bouncing baby, by
adolescence Mr. Bundle had already achieved avoirdu-
pois. Fortunately, he took after his mother, who
was small-boned, so Mr. Bundle was dumpy rather
than ponderous —a bleached little man whose features
were negligible, save for his eyes, which were small
but widely set. Deeply sunk in rolls of fat, they
peered out with short-sighted good humor on a world
which, being a simple soul, he found good.
At thirty, Mr. Bundle still entertained vague
ideas about “getting married.” At thirty-five he dis-
missed them for ever. When a man approaches
middle-age he is apt to become “set” in his ways,
and, being essentially a creature of habit, if still
unattached, likes his pipe in peace and his nights
undisturbed. So Mr. Bundle continued to live in the
boarding-house, dingy without, shabbily cosy within,
to which he had retreated on the death of his parents.
Mr. Bundle had one vice. He patted horses.
When he saw them drawn up against the pavement
he could no more pass them than a drunkard can
pass a hotel. Feeling it to be a weakness, he did it
furtively in a manner that caused policemen to regard
him as a suspicious character, daily expecting to
receive reports of equine poisoning ; but horses liked
Mr. Bundle. Very occasionally one with a grudge
against the whole human race would repulse him,
but Mr. Bundle bore them no malice and conceived
no fear.
To him horses were individuals, with equal rights
with himself of airing their likes and dislikes. It
was a continual source of grief to him that Messrs.
Nestle and Son, drapers, of Karangahape-road, where
he was employed as dispatch clerk, exchanged their
old horse-drawn van for a motor vehicle. Its effi-
ciency was undoubted, its appeal in Mr. Bundle’s eyes
exactly nil.
Mr. Bundle had started at the age of fourteen
as messenger boy, and by sheer weight of honest toil
carved out for himself a permanent position with
the firm. Twenty-five years is a long term of service,
but at the end of that period Messrs. Nestle and Son
were frankly wondering what on earth to do with
“old Bundle,” who at forty was short of breath. Since
he was growing correspondingly slow, his dispatches
were frequently a day behind schedule, and Son,
going to the dispatch office to remonstrate, one day
encountered Mr. Bundle wheezing and gasping like
a defective valve and distressingly purple in the face.
“Anno Domini!” wheezed Mr. Bundle, mopping
his brow, but Mr. Nestle, junior, dismissed the excuse
for what it was worth.
“Avoirdupois, Bundle!” he snapped irritably.
“You should eat less and take more exercise.”
Mr. Bundle agreed unresentfully. “I would, sir.
It’s my feet, sir.”
Mr. Nestle looked with disfavor at Mr. Bundle’s
feet. His shoes, old and worn, were gashed in several
places to ease Mr. Bundle’s various corns and bunions.
“No feet,” said Mr. Nestle with increasing
asperity, “should be called upon to support what you
ask of yours, Bundle.”
“No, sir,” said Mr. Bundle humbly. “I shall
have to eat less,” sighed Mr. Bundle.
He looked dismally at his employer, whose mouth
was pulled down at the corners in sneering dis-
approval. “You will
have to do something
about it, Bundle. This
can’t go on, you know.”
“No, sir,” agreed
Mr. Bundle.
K/|R. BUNDLE worked
overtime in an
abortive attempt to
catch up with his dispatches.
When he left the office it was
nearly dark, and as he limped
along he was overcome by a
sense of acute melancholia —
of futility and dismay. Nestle
and Son were only a small
firm. He was well aware that
they had no room for a senti-
ment that embraced the retention of a more or less
moribund employee. 1 o-day he had been very
breathless indeed, and now there was a funny little
fluttering pain about his heart, as though someone
was squeezing all the blood out of it.
Mr. Bundle stopped and leaned against a lamp-
post. His face was grey and damp with sweat, and
for the first time in his life Mr. Bundle was afraid.
“It’s my heart!” gasped Mr. Bundle, and a sudden
policeman paused beside him, demanding with brac-
ing curtness, “Anything the matter?”
Mr. Bundle made a great effort and stood away
from his support.
“I ... I trust not!” breathed Mr. Bundle with
dignity ; and added piteously, “Perhaps it’s only indi-
gestion.”
The constable flashed a torch in Mr. Bundle’s
face. “Whatever it is,” he advised dryly, “I’d see a
quack.”
Mr. Bundle was sufficiently alarmed to be indig-
nant. “It’s loss ... of breath!” he declared angrily.
“I shall be . . . all right . . . in a . . . minute.”
“Loss of breath,” suggested the constable grimly,
“is what men die of! I’ll get you a taxi.”
Disregarding Mr. Bundle’s half-hearted protest,
he stepped into the street, hailed a passing cab and
assisted Mr. Bundle into it. And Mr. Bundle was
whirled away.
For a space he allowed himself to be borne along,
thankful that he need no longer think or move, but
as he neared his destination it occurred to him that
a Dr. Pennyworth lived at the corner of the street.
Considering everything, thought Mr. Bundle, it might
be as well to consult the man, even if it was only
about dieting. Remembering the things he loved, Mr.
Bundle wavered, but his heart, giving a final flutter,
hardened his resolve. With an effort he straightened
and tapped the driver on the shoulder.
“I’ll get out here,” said Mr. Bundle.
He paid his fare and hobbled up the pathway
to the door, where a maid in a starched cap answered
his ring and, there being no other patients, ushered
him straight into the consulting-room. Dr. Penny-
worth smiled politely and indicated a chair, into
which Mr. Bundle subsided. He stared at Dr. Penny-
worth and suddenly felt less afraid.
There was something reassuring about the spare
figure and the delightful open-air face. The blue eyes
regarding Mr. Bundle were so very steady and astute,
missing no detail of the telltale whiteness about the
fat man’s mouth or the fixed fear of his little sunken
eyes.
Dr. Pennyworth interlaced his long, beautiful
fingers.
“Heart,” said Dr. Pennyworth. “Fatty degenera-
tion.” Mr. Bundle blinked. “You’re clogged up with
fat,” said Dr. Pennyworth severely. “Congested with
it internally as well as externally ; but I fancy there
is no disease —yet. Exercise and diet. I’ll have
a look at you.”
He made Mr. Bundle strip in front of a long
mirror, and what Mr. Bundle saw reflected there he
did not like. There was, thought Mr. Bundle, some-
thing not altogether nice in such white obesity. Con-
trasted with Dr. Pennyworth’s brown, sensitive hands,
his body looked indecent —obscene, almost: like
something out of a well.
The examination over, Mr. Bundle resumed his
clothes, yet still felt naked. Waiting for the doctor
to speak, he was conscious of the enormity of his
superfluity of flesh, as a man may be conscious of
deformity or disfigurement. The vast contentment
that had hitherto left him bovinely pursuing the even
tenor of his ways was
puffed off like thistle-
down in wind never to
return.
Dr. Pennyworth
wrote with a pen that
flowed smoothly, mak-
ing no sound. He had
a bony profile that was
full of faults, but Mr.
Bundle, seeing it with
that new, disconcerting
clarity, knew that it
was beautiful. It had
character and force and
a vitality that only
death could quench.
Dr. Pennyworth looked
up suddenly, and Mr.
Bundle was dazzled by
the light in his eyes—
the lovely zest of living.
“No fats,” said Dr. Pennyworth. “No starch,
no sugar... Get this prescription made up and take
all the gentle exercise you can. Walk all day.”
“Walk!” echoed Mr. Bundle weakly. “My
feet”
For once in his career Dr. Pennyworth made a
fatal mistake. He permitted himself to be facetious.
“Then ride,” said Dr. Pennyworth gravely. “There
is nothing to compare with it for reducing!”
DIMLY, at the back of his mind, Mr. Bundle knew
that it was a joke. Nevertheless, traversing the
few yards to his lodgings, the idea fascinated him.
To ride, to feel the power and glory of a horse be-
tween one’s thighs, to become slim and brown like
Dr. Pennyworth, to be imbued, as he was imbued,
with the delirium of living. Why, in God’s name, why
had it never occurred to him, who loved horses?
Mr. Bundle dieted. He drank oceans of nau-
seous medicine. In the seclusion of his bedroom he
even attempted physical jerks, which left him breath-
less and dizzy.
All day, every day, he imagined himself mounted
on a horse, saw himself miraculously slim and
bronzed, as a god bestriding the wind. His dispatches
got more hopelessly in arrears, and at the end of a
fortnight he sought Mr. Nestle’s office and suggested
that he be given six months’ sick leave.
“I intend,” wheezed Mr. Bundle, “to take a
reducing course. I am,” explained Mr. Bundle elo-
quently, “congested internally as well as externally
with fat.”
Mr. Nestle could not agree with sufficient alacrity,
and some days later Mr. Bundle, after instructing his
understudy, departed with a bonus the size of which
made him vaguely uneasy.
In the morning Mr. Bundle sought a riding-
school. Listening to his request, the instructor was
betrayed into an exclamation that was undiplomatic,
but Mr. Bundle bore him no malice.
“I am not as heavy as I look,” entreated Mr.
Bundle. “I am small-boned, and it is bone that
weighs. I am only fourteen stone,” said Mr. Bundle.
“Conservative,” muttered the instructor, and
wondered how one would get Mr. Bundle on a horse;
but Mr. Bundle amazingly got himself on and instinc-
tively learned to ride.
He found it very exhausting. Once or twice in
the beginning, when trying to trot, he got slight heart
attacks —“stitch,” he called it. His wheezing alarmed
his instructor, but Mr. Bundle’s airy dismissal of the
phenomenon somewhat reassured him.
“Fatty degeneration,” said Mr. Bundle. “Riding’ll
cure it!”
He did not admit, even to himself, that, now that
he had tasted of it, only death would cure him of
riding. His eyes began to sparkle, and he burnt a
fiery red. For days he could neither sit nor stand.
From contempt, his instructor was won to an unwill-
ing admiration and a very real respect for the little
fat man’s indomitable courage.
“Though what would happen if you fell, ’ he
wondered gloomily, “the Lord knows!”
“I should bounce! ” prophesied Mr. Bundle com-
fortably.
Mr. Bundle graduated at his own request from
the stout, stolid cob to the heights of an ancient, dis-
illusioned, seventeen-hand thoroughbred.
“I have,” said Mr. Bundle, pounding round the
confines of the school, “a flair for horses know
when they have quality.”
Miraculously he began to lose flesh, to feel as
he had never felt in his life before ; not a placid con-
tent with existence but a real zest for living. He
forgot that he had half-suspected that Dr. Penny-
worth’s last words had been a joke in doubtful taste,
and because he was finding that gentleman’s prescrip-
tion so eminently satisfactory it did not occur to
him to go back.
He bought a pair of execrably-cut breeches, shiny
brown gaiters and boots and a check cloth cap of
unbelievably loud hue, and felt himself to be develop-
ing into a very sporting kind of person indeed.
When three of his six months’ leave were up
and late autumn was on the land he decided, very
much to his own surprise, to go into the country,
where he could ride all day every day on secluded
country roads. He bought High Power, paying twice
as much as that ancient quadruped was worth; and,


after a little search, found, a dozen miles out of town,
suitable lodgings for himself and his horse.
1 N the days that followed Mr. Bundle discovered
1 beauty. Green fields made his heart sing. Skies
held him entranced. Trees filled him with ecstasy
and hills and little winds made him their trembling
worshipper. Riding at incredible hours in the morn-
ing, drifting home through sunset and holy dusk, Mr.
Bundle reviewed his past with resentment and dismay.
“I did not live!” thought Mr. Bundle indignantly.
“I existed —like a fat hog!” j
The soft going beside the roads rejuvenated the
old thoroughbred, and he took to pulling and pranc-
ing a little. Mr. Bundle, from finding it excessively
alarming, grew to a joy of it, though too often it
jerked him breathless. In the ensuing two months
he lost weight, took to wearing his cap at an angle
that made little boys call after him, and had a heart
attack.
High Power waited placidly, grazing at the side
of the road, quite unmoved by his owner’s curious
behavior in lying so long and so suddenly in the
grass. There was no pain to speak of. Only that
horrible feeling as though his heart was drained of
blood, even though it kept on feebly beating. Oddly,
Mr. Bundle was not frightened. Even when the
attack reached its apex and Mr. Bundle lost for a
fleeting second his hold on earth, he had no con-
sciousness of death ; and presently Mr. Bundle found
himself lying flat on his back watching the solemn
clouds go by in a white and shining glory.
The sound of High Power snorting brought him
back to mundane things, and he rose and had to
lead the horse for a mile before he found a bank
high enough to mount from. Mounting was Mr.
Bundle’s bugbear. People would offer to help him,
to “leg” him up, and they couldn’t, which was very
embarrassing for everyone. He much preferred to
mount himself from a stout box or a convenient bank,
a process at which he was becoming adept.
As the end of his leave approached, Mr. Bundle
wondered how he should bear it —the loss of these
halcyon days. To toil in a musty office, dragging
through the humdrum routine of the days when the
green things of earth are calling. Though his was a
naturally saving disposition, his wages at Messrs.
Nestle had never been munificent, and his capital was
correspondingly meagre, so that retirement was im-
possible.
He could, he thought hopefully, possibly get
some sort of position in a country town, but in the
meantime he would have to go back. He thought at
first that he would keep High Power at the riding-
school, but later decided to leave him where he was,
coming out at week-ends. So he made his arrange-
ments accordingly, and set out on his last ride.
| T was a lovely day—a day of light and shadow, of
* little winds and little calms. It caressed Mr.
Bundle, and Mr. Bundle drew it to him and wrapped
it round him as a cloak to cover him against the days
to come.
High Power tossed his head, snorted, pranced a
little, and stood suddenly rock-still, staring across the
shining fields. Far away was a sound as of music
welling. Dogs yelping in unison. High Power shook
his head until the bit jingled, and began to plunge,
nearly unseating Mr. Bundle.
“Whoa!” cried Mr. Bundle, but High Power,
drunk with memory and filled with the oats of
ignorance, refused to whoa.
The hound music swelled in volume, and High
Power stood on his hind legs and squealed.
“Whoa! ” cried Mr. Bundle again. “I know it’s
exciting! It’s hounds!” yelled Mr. Bundle, his heart
leaping and racing. “But whoa!”
High Power cavorted to the middle of the road,
swerved towards the hedge, rooted his head down,
got his hocks under him and bolted.
Mr. Bundle, his reins gone, his stirrups gone,
knew a second of exquisite terror. The hedge rushed
to meet them —was behind them ; how or why, Mr.
Bundle, clinging desperately to his mount’s mane, did
not know. He only knew that, miraculously, they
were galloping smoothly and evenly towards the mad
music that came to meet them. Somehow he found
his stirrups and his reins, but High Power would not
answer to any persuasion. The harder Mr. Bundle
tugged the more determinedly he set his jaw, and the
more resolutely he galloped forward.
Hounds came suddenly into view, pouring in
a delirious wave over a rise and down into a valley.
Horses followed them, and the thunder of their hoofs
beat a crazy tattoo against the day’s green silence.
High Power swerved, cutting in behind hounds and
ahead of the foremost horses. A fence loomed up,
gleaming wire, through which hounds rippled with-
out pause. High Power pricked his ears and began
to lengthen his stride, reefing alarmingly against the
futility of Mr. Bundle’s tugging.
“Oh, stop!” begged Mr. Bundle frantically.
“Stop!”
High Power shortened his stride, opened up with
alarming elasticity and swept over the fence as though
it were non-existent. Then he galloped on like clock-
work.
A sudden, crazy excitement seized on Mr. Bundle
-—a mad, glad, triumphant ecstasy. He had survived
two jumps—two amazing obstacles —and terror was
behind him. He felt an urgent desire to shout, to
jeer at his fat white body that could no longer chain
him. “There’s nothing fat about my spirit! ” Mr. Bundle
told himself exultantly, and hit the saddle in a variety
of unexpected places as High Power chopped his gait
through uneven ground ; clawed wildly at saddle-bow’
and mane as the old horse bucketed expertly over a
hidden drain.
Hounds swerved, and High Power, still out in
front, swerved with them, checked, put in a short
one and sailed over a hedge and ditch, landing close
on the heels of the pack. Behind him, Mr, Bundle
heard a bedlam of shouting, but took no notice. He
felt an insane desire to shout himself, but, too breath-
less to do more than cling on how he could, he merely
let High Power go his own gait. No matter, he
thought hazily, what came after, he would have this
to remember —that once he, Bundle, had ridden to
hounds.
High Power skidded to a walk, slid down a high
bank, floundered through a boggy creek, hurled him-
self up the opposite slope, hit his gait and went all
out for a high box-thorn hedge. Mr. Bundle
whooped. Behind him, the shouting reached a cres-
cendo of sound that dimly invaded Mr. Bundle’s
consciousness.
“Hounds! Ware hounds! Hold hard!”
Vaguely Mr. Bundle saw that hounds had stopped
and were surging round the hedge and scrambling
through it, and it occurred to him that it was prob-
ably not the thing to get too far in front of them.
He spoke urgently to High Power. “Hounds!”
echoed Mr. Bundle breathlessly, the words jerked out
of him in spasmodic gasps. “Ware hounds! Hold
hard!”
While they were yet a great way from the hedge
High Power took off. They sped through the air,
cleaving it like the prow of a battleship. The hedge
flashed beneath them. Mr. Bundle lost both stirrups
and knew that never again would he live as he lived
in that brief second. The earth rushed up to meet
them. A hound crossed in front of them and yelled
and yelped as High Power’s passing hooves bowled
it over. Mr. Bundle slid along the outstretched neck,
hesitated and then rolled off, with his cap jambed
rakishly over his eyes.
He was still sitting groggily in the centre of a
circle of interested hounds when the field arrived, the
master, the huntsmen and the whip positively purple
with fury.
They talked to Mr. Bundle. They talked in
unison, but not in chorus, and rudely, not giving Mr.
Bundle a chance to utter a word in his own defence.
High Power, the picture of bland innocence, ate grass
in the background.
Mr. Bundle, very short of breath, managed to
pick himself up. Now that it was all over, he felt
sick and faint and wholly incredulous; and quite
suddenly the men in red coats stopped talking and
looked as incredulous as he felt, seeing him for the
first time as he was —fat and ludicrous —and not at
all the kind of man to ride recklessly over his fences
as he came to them.
Mr. Bundle found his breath and his tongue.
“Oh, sirs!” gasped Mr. Bundle in great distress, “I
did not ... 1 would not . . . My horse would come,
sirs! ”
The tallest man in red snorted. “John Gilpin,
eh?” And, since none of his hounds seemed perma-
nently incapacitated, he thawed a little. “That was
a magnificent leap, sir!”
“Sir,” said Mr. Bundle incoherently, “I had not
thought... I did not dream ... To think,” wailed Mr.
Bundle, “that I might have been doing it all my life!”
“Not on my hounds, you couldn’t have!” said
the tall man dryly. “Well, we’d better call it a day.”
CT OMEONE brought High Power, and many willing
pairs of hands succeeded in hoisting Mr. Bundle
into the saddle.
Meekly he followed the tall man in red. His
head was in a whirl, and there was a golden mist
before his eyes. At moments he felt very queer in-
deed, almost as though he might suffocate, but at
the same time he felt rapturously happy. Ecstasy
bubbled in him, like champagne—a sense of delirium,
almost; and, incredibly, a couplet he had once heard,
but never before remembered, entered his head.
“What say?” demanded the man in the red coat.
“I didn’t speak,” said Mr. Bundle. “At least, I
was not conscious” He turned shining eyes on
the other and half-whispered the words, “ ‘What has
been, has been, and I have had my hour’ ”...
And much to his own surprise he lurched for-
ward on his horse’s neck.
“Here!” said the man in red, grabbing him.
“Hold up!”
Mr. Bundle turned a twisted and ghastly face,
damp with sweat towards him. “It has not . . .
hurt . . . before,” said Mr. Bundle with vast surprise.
Someone came to his aid and they got him off
his horse.
“Hasn’t anyone got a flask?” shouted the man
in red testily.
No one had, it seemed.
“It’s . . . my heart!” gasped Mr. Bundle. “If
you could lay me down, gentlemen”
So they laid him in the Wet grass, with the horses
all about him. They folded a coat for his head, and
a hound came and looked at him cautiously, whining
a little. Mr. Bundle smiled a crooked smile and
(Continued on page 7.)
A sudden, crazy excitement seized on Mr. Bundle- a mad, glad, triumphant ecstasy.


Of a Patriot
HIS MAJESTY OR BEARER
BY A.B. SHERLOCK
THE chairman was the first
to smell the brandy. Then,
as the old man shuffled
across the platform, they
all smelt it the Mayor, the
local member, the ladies, every-
body. Some of them sniffed ; it
was an indignity, they felt, to
allow such a disreputable old
wreck into the building at all,
let alone on to the platform.
Tears were visible on old
Mick’s cheeks, descending into
his beard. A girl in the front
row tittered. The local member
sipped water. The war address
he had just delivered was a
moving one; he had seen it
produce tears on other occa-
sions, but this old man who
smelt of brandy was a minor
triumph. The speech had posi-
tively lifted him out of his seat
and on to the platform.
Complacently he watched
old Mick raise his hand for
silence. The audience quietened.
The old man’s wild, vague eyes
stared over them, and he seemed
to struggle to remember what
he had intended to do. There
was an uncomfortable silence.
Then his voice started. People at the back of the hall
put cupped hands at their ears.
“....an’ so, like Mr. Long said, we all gotter
do our bit. The Empire . . . King George . . . When
we think of our boys over there —anything we
got” He stopped, confused. “I ain’t any good
at makin’ a speech,” he blundered on, “but there’s
one thing I can do —I can write a flamin’ cheque!”
Startled, the audience burst into nervous applause.
Old Mick produced his cheque-book, borrowed a
pen and bent over the table, scratching laboriously
for a painful interval. He turned round to the audi-
ence again, his mouth moving as if in its eagerness
the mechanism of speech had outrun the sound, the
words. But finally the words came, erratic and dis-
jointed.
“Everything we got ... I tell you, every flamin’
thing we got . . . Down to our last bob. Down to
the shirts on our backs . . . Here.”
With both hands he made rapid movements as if
tearing cobwebs from before his face. He handed
the cheque to the chairman. Then he gave him his
solar topee, whipped off his coat and gave him that.
He began to remove his shirt.
There was a woman’s scandalised shriek. Police-
sergeant Williams hastened up to the aisle. He was
just in time; old Mick had finally struggled out of
his shirt.
While they were letting the old man out through
a side door, the chairman glanced at the cheque. It
was drawn in favor of King George for an amount
of ten million pounds. He tore it slowly into pieces.
'T' HAT Empire Day, 1916, gave old Mick his recog-
' nised place in Gunnimba as the town eccentric.
And it left in his mind, like a troublesome piece of
shrapnel, a persuasion of the King’s financial unhappi-
ness. Whenever that persuasion recurred, the old man
would try to negotiate another cheque. It gave them
a little bother at the A. and O. Bank.
His real name was Michael Darton, but nobody
ever called him anything but “Million-pound Mick”
or “Old B. and L.” from his way of ordering his
favorite drink, brandy and lime. He was half-drunk
all the time ; in fact, it was a local saying that he
hadn’t been sober since his daughter ran away from
home before the war. The girl went off with a travel-
ling showman, and when the news came through a
year later that she had died in New Zealand some-
where it didn’t make any difference to Old B. and L.
—he had gone to the devil, anyway. He had sold
his property, 12,000 acres of excellent saltbush coun-
try, taken a room at the Shearer’s Arms, and had set
out with a new cheque-book to enjoy the leisure of
his retirement. So some people phrased it. Others
said that it looked more as if he were drinking him-
self to death.
But he was never really conspicuous until he
burst into prominence at that Empire Day meeting.
Then that, too, was forgotten, and the dust of years
accumulated on it. But he still kept up his habit
of writing colossal cheques in favor of the King. Each
of the Gunnimba hotels had a framed specimen, to
be exhibited to visitors in the doldrums of conver-
sation.
The years drifted by him like smoke. He wan-
dered from the Shearer’s Arms to the Empire, from
the Empire to the Lion, and from the Lion back to
the Shearer’s Arms, in his soiled and battered topee.
“B. and L., George.” . . . “Warming up again, Tony.
Yes, a little B. and L.” . . . And on summer days he
would frequently be seen sitting on the wooden kerb
in the shade of a pepper-tree fast asleep with his beard
spread over his chest like a fan.
Periodically a ray of recollection would make him
urgently aware of the necessity for saving the Empire.
He would then hasten down to the A. and 0., write
a cheque for several millions, and ask for its instant
payment in cash. “For the King,” he would explain,
tremulous with the brandy, the heat and a resurgence
of the hysteria which had first unbalanced him in
1916.
But at the A. and O. they had perfected a tech-
nique for handling their eccentric customer. It
amounted to a little persuasive talk, and generally
took ten minutes or so. It worked smoothly scores
of times, until one parching February day the whole
routine blew up.
Old B. and L. shuffled in amid a cloud of gritty
dust from River-street and passed the teller a cheque ;
it was for “fourty” million, payable to his Majesty
the King.
“Rather a large amount, Mr. Darton.” The for-
mula came out as if the old man had pressed a button.
“Do you mind seeing the manager? This way.”
In his office Anders, the manager, looked round
sleepily.
“Ah, good afternoon, Mr. Darton. Take a
chair.” He glanced at the cheque, and the corners of
his mouth twitched. “Forty million —quite a tidy
sum.”
“The King can do with every penny of it.”
“I’m not so sure.” Anders had conducted this
interview half a dozen times, and he flattered himself
that he handled Old B. and L. with tact and intelli-
gence. “You see”
“It ain’t for myself. But a man’s gotter stand
by the King.”
HE rambled on. He was incredibly dirty, and above
his beard, below the brim of his topee, there was
visible but a few square inches of skin and a pair
of vague eyes. A sense of the fantastic overcame
Anders ; the thing facing him might not have been
a man at all, but merely a hollow pile of theatrical
props, with the head nodding to a concealed pendu-
lum swing. But it was alive ; it spoke again. “What
sorta dingo would I be to see the King stuck ?
“Loyal of you, Mr. Darton. There’s no man
more loyal in this town. Everybody knows that. Just
the same, I don’t think you need worry just now.”
“Why?”
“We got word yesterday. ’ The King’s over his
little trouble. Everything’s come right for him again.”
“I don’t flamin’ well believe”
' “It’s true. It came over the wireless yesterday.
The —the American rate of exchange came down
forty-five per cent. You know what that means? It
means the King cuts his debts in halves, while his
assets double in value. It was damn’ lucky for him
coming when it did.”
“You told me things like that before,” the old
man grumbled.
“Well, the market’s always taking these turns.
You can’t tell what’s coming next.”
The topee wagged obstinately. “I want my
money. I wanter take it to the King.”
“Ah, but don’t you see, Mr. Darton,” Anders said
patiently, drawing triangles on his blotter, “don’t you
see —the King’s all right now, but he mightn’t always
be so lucky. Who can say what the future will bring?
And if he »ver gets into difficulties again then will
be the time when your help will be
most welcome. I’m sure you’ll agree
that it would be better”
A sudden movement on the old
man’t part drew the manager’s eyes.
What he saw was appalling. Old B.
and L. was holding a large revolver
—was taking deliberate aim. Anders
had a nauseating fear that the old
madman meant to shoot him there
and then, right through the stomach.
But he could not stir; shock held him
rigid.
“Now don’t you move,” Old
B. and L. said.
“My God, be careful with that
thing”
“You’re the one that’s gotter be
careful.”
The manager’s eyes were
strained. This was an outrage. He
had always treated Old B. and L. as
a child ; the child’s sudden transfor-
mation into a dangerous maniac was
unfair.
“I want my money,” Darton said. “I don’t want
no lies.”
“But, look here, be reas”
“If I don’t get it I’ll blow you to bits.”
Anders tried to think. His temples were clammy.
He said painfully: “All right. I’ll go and see how
much we’ve got”
“Don’t you shift outa that there chair.”
“My dear Mr. Darton, won’t you be sensible?
I’m only trying to help you”
“Shut up—and don’t move. What about my
money?”
Anders stammered: “My dear fellow, even if I
wanted to give it to you I couldn’t. And why? There
isn’t that much in the place.”
“Well, how much is there?”
“About —about fifty pounds.”
“What!”
Anders stuck grimly to his bluff. “About fifty
pounds,” he repeated.
“Righto!” Old B. and L. slid the revolver into
his pocket; its muzzle made a pointed lump in the
cloth. “I can put a bullet in you from here —easy,”
he said. “Now, listen. Ring for that bloke out there
—get him to bring that fifty quid in here.”
Anders could not take his eyes away from that
lump in the cloth. But he was thinking fast: he had
seen an opening. If he could mollify the old lunatic
with fifty pounds, get him and his revolver off the
premises, the crazy old fool wouldn’t get far, depend
on that, and then the police
He rang the bell.
“Mind what you’re up to,” the maniac warned
him. “If you come at any tricks —look out.”
A clerk stood in the doorway. Anders hesitated.
It was in his mind to betray old Darton, but he
rapidly abandoned the intention. It was too risky ;
there was no telling what the old madman was cap-
able of doing.
“Oh, Parlow,” he said. “Bring me fifty in singles,
will you?”
The clerk looked slightly astonished, but he did
as he was told. When he had gone old B. and L.,
with his free hand, crammed the notes into his pocket.
“Where’s the back way out?” he asked.
Anders rose, feeling more at ease already. Why
had he been so abominably scared? It was nothing.
Of course, the police
Together they left the bank, old B. and L. keep-
ing behind the manager and retaining his grip on the
revolver. In a few more seconds the old man was
shuffling away down the lane, while Anders was run-
ning like a lunatic for his office. He flung himself
at the telephone, was put through to the police
station.
“Old B. and L., you say?” came the sergeant’s
surprised voice.
“Yes, yes—old Darton. He’s gone completely.
Send a man after him at once. But be careful,
the He can’t get far”
“But, listen —the old fellow’s been here all day.
“Been where?”
“Here, at the station. Picked him up this morn-
ing. Found him in Deacon-street, blind, speechless
drunk, and somebody pinched his clothes, too. Hardl>
a stitch on, you might say, and —hullo, hullo!”


stared up at the blue sky where the white galleons of
the clouds sailed majestically by. The pain round
his heart eased a little, and his mind wandered back
to the events of the day—to the exquisite terror that
had clutched him as the first hedge loomed, to the
exquisite ecstasy of the soaring leap that had landed
him among hounds.
There was a stirring about him, and someone
said “Here’s the doctor.”
Mr. Bundle brought his gaze back from heaven
and looked serenely into Dr. Pennyworth’s face. A
slow grin rippled his fat countenance, a little grin
of sly triumph, as though, for the first time, he real-
ised himself something of a hero.
“Hello, Doc.!” he whispered. “Thinner, aren’t
I?”
Dr. Pennyworth’s look of professional calm gave
place to one of incredulity.
“You?” he said. “What the devil are you doing
on a horse?”
“Didn’t think ... I’d dare!” gibed Mr. Bundle.
“You . . . told me . . . to.”
“I?” Memory took the doctor by the throat, and
he groaned. “God forgive me! ”
Mr. Bundle’s grin faded, and for a second he
looked puzzled. Then light came to him, and he
thought irritably that if he was about to die the
doctor was spoiling his death.
“It wasn’t . . . a . . . good . . . joke!” gasped Mr.
Bundle. “But I’ll be . . . all right ... in a minute . . .
Quite ... all right”. . .
He lay still for a second, and far away he heard
the sound of racing hooves, and he knew they were
coming for him. With a supreme effort he raised him-
self and caught Dr. Pennyworth’s hand in a clammy
grip.
“If you had not joked,” he said clearly, “I should
never have lived!”
Dr. Pennyworth caught him as he fell back. For
a second he knelt staring into Mr. Bundle’s tranquil
face, from which features still and majestic seemed
to be emerging as though sculptured there swiftly by a
master hand.
Then, hat in hand, he rose.
“Mr. Bundle, gentlemen,” he said, “is . , . quite
all right.”
"The Adam's-Apple'Scqueezin’ Game"
ZOLO
BY
CON DREW
I’VE handled a few boneheads in the Adam’s-apple-
squeezin’ game, but nothin’ so dumb as a big
Spitzbergen grappler named Zolo that me and
Smasher Adams had in Melbourne. Sol Harris
lumbered him up to our gym. one day when we were
fixin’ up the boxin’ ring.
“There you are,” says Sol, as if conferrin’ the
freedom of the city upon us ; “I’ve brought you the
makin’s of the best heavyweight wrestler in Mel-
bourne.”
It wasn’t like Sol to part with anythin’ good, so
I asked him where was the catch.
“There ain’t no catch,” he says. “This bird will
bring you in good sugar if you handle him right.
He’s from Spitzbergen.”
“Spits” says Smasher.
“Spitzbergen,” says Sol. “It’s some place in Nova
Scotia.”
We had a good screw at the grappler, who must
have weighed nineteen stone even without his boots.
He certainly looked the cut of a wrestler. He had
one of them egg-shaped domes that your grip slides
off when you try to slap on a headlock, and there
was nothin’ where his body joined his head for his
foes to grab hold of. He didn’t appear to be carryin’
too much thinkin’ gear, but you can’t have everythin’.
“He don’t look bad,” I says to Sol. “What’s
wrong with him?”
“There’s nothin’ wrong with him,” Sol come back.
“He’s a bit green of course, but once he grabs hold
of a bloke that’s the end of him.”
“And what happens when the bloke grabs hold
of him?”
“The bloke that grabs him,” says Sol, “is a mighty
sorry grappler ten seconds after. Zolo is the strongest
wrestler I’ve ever slapped me eyes on.”
“If he’s as good as all that,” Smasher chips in,
“why are you gettin’ rid of him?”
“Because I’m disbandin’ me team,” says Sol.
“I’m leavin’ for Sydney to-morrer.”
“I see,” says Smasher, and we waited for the
sting.
“Yes, I thought I’d give him to you fellows,”
said Sol after a bit, “because you know how to
handle a grappler. He won’t let you down if you
match him with a good second-rater. I had him with
me when I was tourin’ the country last month, and
he threw every grappler he met. Of course,” adds
Sol, “he cost me a bit for tucker and all that, so if
you boys like to come across with a fiver it’d be
all to the good.”
\J/E did come across with a fiver, and we was
“ “ mighty sorry afterwards. Zolo was always caus-
in’ us trouble. At the first boardin’-house we took
him to he banged his head agen his bedroom door
one mornin’, forgettin’ it was shut, and near tore it
off its hinges. That, passed off all right, because the
landlord was a fair-minded bird and was willin’ to
admit that it was an accident. Two days later Zolo
did the act agen, and the landlord asked us to take
him away. He said he couldn’t have men like Zolo
hangin’ around his joint. It was settin’ a bad example
to the other boarders. We gave Zolo a room on top
of a corn store after that, and there was nothin’ up
there he could smash.
Still, he had his good points. Sol told us no lie
when he said that he was strong. In one of his try-
outs he threw a seventeen stone Turk so high that
he could have grabbed one of the lower rafters if
he’d had any sense. Instead of that he turned a couple
of somersaults and came down like a rocket stick
fair on top of his head. If he hadn’t had a cast-iron
melon we would have all been had up for man-
slaughter. As it was, it cost us five rogues for
bandages and ointment.
After we’d had Zolo six weeks we thought it
was time to cash in on him. I left the match-makin’
to Smasher, and was a bit surprised when he came
in one day with the news that he’d signed Zolo up
for a one-round prelim, with a grappler called the
Canadian Seal. The Seal was known as a slick and
brainy wrestler who had written finis to the career
of many an aspirin’ newcomer to the game, and I
had a sort of feelin’ of trouble ahead.
“Cripes!” I says to Smasher. “You’re flyin’ a
bit high, ain’t you?”
“For why?” asks Smash.
“The Seal’s too quick a thinker for our bloke,”
I come back ; “and on top of that he’s terrible fast.”
“He won’t have time to think when Zolo gets
a hold of him,” says Smash.
“Yes, but he’s got to get hold of him,” says I.
“Our bloke’s slow on his feet, you know.”
“Oh, he’ll get hold of him,” says Smasher, “and
he’ll dump him quick and sudden too.”
“All right,” I says. “When are they goin’ to
wrestle?”
“Next Saturday night,” says Smasher, “at Mur-
ray’s Hall.”
H"” HAT gave us four days to put the final polish
1 on Zolo, and, although I say it myself, we made
a real good job of it. I have never seen a man look
better trained than Zolo did when we bunged him
in his corner on the Saturday night.
There was a fair-sized crowd present, too. They
was mostly followers of the Seal, for when he breezed
into the ring they gave him a great reception. I
didn’t feel none too confident when I looked him
over. He was built for speed and trained to the
minute. To me he looked the sort of bird who could
use his wits to get him out of an awkward situation.
Smash, had given Zolo his instructions that after-
noon, but knowin’ what a short-horned memory our
bloke had he gave them to him agen.
“This debate,” he says to Zolo, “calls for a fifteen-
minute round, one to win, and it’s got to be you. Go
after this feller first crack out of the box like 1 told you,
and keep goin’ after him. Maybe he’ll trick you a
few times, but that don’t matter. You’re bound to
grab him in the long run, and when you do see that
you hang on to him. Is that clear?”
“Yah,” grunts Zolo.
“Right,” says Smash. “See you keep in mind
what I’ve been tellin’ you, that’s all.”
Just then the ref. climbed through the ropes and
called the men together. There was a bit of a wait
while he put over the usual ballyhoo about wrestlin’
fair and all the rest of it, then he gave them the
signal to get busy.
Cripes! Almost immediate the Seal dashed in
and, grabbing Zolo’s legs, heaved him on to the
canvas. We thought the Seal would pounce on top
of him and try to pin him down, but he just stood
off and waited for our bloke to get up. It was plain
that he’d heard about Zolo’s terrible strength and
wasn’t takin’ any chances.
The pair fooled round for a bit, then Zolo made
a grab at the Seal and missed. In a wink the Seal
was under him agen, and Zolo done another visit to
the floor.
“It’s all right,” says Smash, to me. “Them falls
won’t hurt Zolo. He’ll grab hold of the Seal directly
and that’ll be the end of him.”
“It ain’t a certainty,” says I, “that he’ll know'
what to do with the Seal when he does grab hold of
him. He’s too slow a thinker for the Seal.”
“All right,” says Smash., “you’ll see. I’m
gamblin’ on Zolo’s strength.”
In the meantime our baboon had got to his feet.
He made a cornbeef. rush, but the Seal sidestepped
out of danger. A second later the act was repeated
and the crowd began to laugh. Then followed a
game of hide-and-seek. It was amazin’ how quick
the Seal was on his feet. A dozen times our bloke
seemed to be within an ace of securin’ a proper hold,
and each time the Seal got clean away. Now and
agen the Seal would dump our bloke just to show
that he was still on deck. It was like a master givin’
a lesson to a novice.
/
r ~T HIS went on for the greater part of the debate.
1 It was easy to see that there was only one man
in it unless Zolo gained a fall. He had been forcin’
the business, of course, but up to that time he hadn’t
laid a hand on the Seal, you might say.
Just when the bout was almost over the Seal,
who was sidesteppin’ a wild rush from our bloke,
slipped and Zolo grabbed him. I heard the Seal
give a grunt as he was dragged to the mat; then me
ears were deafened by a yell from Smasher.
“He’s got him!” he yelled. “He’s got him!”
But the battle wasn’t quite over yet. Struggling
like a bagful of cats, the Seal did everything but
tear himself in half in an effort to get away. The
wrestlers got so mixed up after a bit that you could
hardly distinguish t’other from which. They was just
a strugglin’ mass of arms and legs.
“If the Seal’s so flamin’ cunnin’ let him get out
of this,” yelled Smash.
“He might do it yet,” says I. “Brains has always
a chance.”
“Bah!” snorts Smash. “You’ve got bats in
your belfry.”
Suddenly, at the height of the mix-up, Zolo saw
a chance of clampin’ on a toe-hold and took advan-
tage of it mighty quick. With all his mighty strength
he gave the toe a wrench. Somethin’ snapped ; there
was a fearful yell, and we expected to see the Seal
collapse. Instead, like a flash, he wriggled clear. In
another wink he was on top of Zolo and had pinned
his shoulders to the mat. That brainless idiot Zolo
had grabbed his own toe. I told you he was a bone-
head.


Troy in terms of universal emotion, so A Trojan
Ending seeks to reconstruct it in terms of intellectual
content. It is a picture of the mind of Troy and of the
conflicting temperaments of the Trojans and the
Greeks—a more specialised job than re-creating
emotions.
The Trojan war was the first world war, the first
great concerted action of man of which we have a
record. It js this “world quality” that interests the
author.
The story of Troy, now dispersed in mocking
legend, was the first tight knot that history made in time.
Alter Troy the rope of time tangled, but during all the
coils of ages, when men grew old without reaching
last maturity, never was a true knot made again.
Troy, the preface points out, is of peculiar interest to
us because our civilisation approaches a Trojan ending.
“Just to stop short, with no more to come, nothing
lost, the story ending in the middle.”
With the characters the author allows herself
considerable liberty of interpretation. The action
centres in Cressida, but her rehabilitation proves
too difficult a task. Miss Riding cannot gloze over
Cressida’s desertion of Troy, only wrap it in words.
Legend is too strong for her. Cressida remains an
obviously built-up character and an unacceptable
heroine. Helen is frozen in her beauty, “like air and
wind and leaves rather than flesh.” Paris is an all-
too-bright young man. The heroes are depressingly
unheroic —Agamemnon the acme of tactlessness, Mene-
laus with a red button nose and dyed hair, Odysseus
mean and wily, Othryoneus one who joined up on the
distinct understanding that he would fight 10 hours a
week and no more. Hector is the noblest figure in
the book, with gentle Priam behind him and brave
Achilles before him.
There are passages in A Trojan Ending of great
beauty—a scene in Priam’s hall or the description of
the onset of Troy’s last winter. But on the whole it
is stiff and pedantic, and its attractiveness is that of
a flower finely reproduced in metal. Often it is very
clever, and flakes of wisdom are scattered through
its pages. “Too much emotion deceives one’s own
sincerity.” “A woman shouldn’t try to have a life of
her own unless she is prepared to suffer.” “When a
woman in love thinks a lot about her future happiness
you can be sure she’s not very much in love.”
Once the story touches high tragedy—in the last
conflict between Hector and Achilles. Hector is blind
and there can be only one end. Achilles is caught
between the dishonor of such a combat and the break-
ing of his word to lay the head of Hector on the
pyre of Patroclus. He is between life and law, a
truly classic dilemma. He chooses the law. This
passage rings true and lives in the reader’s imagina-
tion after the book is closed.
Boy Not Wanted.
Ernest Raymond has ever shown himself sensi-
tives to his times. His best work— Tell England, We,
the Accused, and now The Marsh (Cassell; Angus
and Robertson; Bs. 6d.) —has always been carried on
the flood of a great social tragedy; war and the
sacrifice of youth, punishment and the death penalty,
the cruel squandering of the youth and promise of
boys forced by economic stress into dead-end jobs
and left at 20 or so unemployed and unemployable.
When Raymond writes his story about such a theme
his sincerity and deep sympathy raise his works to a
stature and nobility not discernible in his lighter
novels. The Marsh is an arresting piece of work by
reason of the strong feeling that informs it and the
completeness and verisimilitude with which the theme
is worked out.
It begins with an account, in newspaper terms, of
a shooting affray in the East End of London between
the police and a gang. One of the thieves is mortally
wounded. Raymond then tells the story of this man,
Danny Counsel, from the time he left school at 14
to become a van boy until his death by violence at
the age of 25.
Society had loaded the dice against Danny from
the beginning:
A child who has been held from full sleep because
the family’s one room is noisy till midnight; because
he must be up before six to go out on his newspaper
round; and sometimes because a hunger is moving
within him; whose long days have been spent in over-
crowded rooms and rackety streets —such a child will
be quick and lively and capable on the surface, but will
have a tremulous and shifting base below.
At 18 Danny was too old to deliver parcels, so he
lost his job. He had no training and, because of that
“shifting base,” very little initiative. He lost his girl
because he had no money. He left the meagre shel-
ter of his home because he could no longer bear to
be a drain upon his mother. He sank inevitably to
the doss-house —and the most pitiful expedients to
attain even that. His confidence and courage were
undermined until he realised that he had become
a waste product that could not be used for profit any
more. Something of less value than the horses going
by, for they were worth their stabling and their fodder;
they showed a profit.
Danny becomes a criminal. Step by step we
follow him, and each step seems inevitable. He goes
to prison, he lives with a prostitute, he consorts with
thieves. It is sordid and ugly, yet all these things
happen in a blind, unwilled way to a living, suffering
boy. Danny is never quite defaced ; he keeps our
sympathy so that at the end we read again the story
of the shooting in the mean street with different feel-
ings.
There are many characters in this long novel, and
the reader feels that a great human tide is flowing
through the pages. Raciness, color and variety are
achieved without resort to types or to caricature.
Many are only glimpsed as the story marches on,
but there are two characters, at the opposite poles of
life, that recur almost rhythmically. They are police-
sergeant Huckstead, called Rump, and Miss Rachel,
the parish worker, The book swings between them.
Huckstead is a sentimental husband, the good com-
panion, the ambitious officer with, at the bottom of
his heart, a streak of black, unreasoning cruelty. He
is unconscious of it, but it is one of the pivots of the
book. It functions in moments of excitement. This
is the black miracle,. Miss Rachel is filled with a
desperate yearning to help and to save, but she is
diffident and awkward and has no skill in turning
her aspirations into fact. Only in crises does she
occasionally rise to the nobility of her heart. This,
too, is a pivot of the book, the white miracle. Huck-
stead is as unaware of his dark streak as Rachel is
ineffectual in her goodness. Good and evil are alike
handicapped by confusion. Between the two is a
great mass of heedlessness, wastage, maladjustment in
which society and the individual struggle.
The scene of The Marsh is laid in Stepney and
the surrounding poor districts of London, which long
ago were marshlands on the river bank. They are
still a marsh, but in a different sense; a slough of
despond in which Danny, like many another, was
trapped.
American Homespun.
Forgive Us Our Trespasses, by Lloyd C. Douglas
(Lovat Dickson; 7s. 6d.), a story set partly in rural
Indiana, has its moments. This picture of friendliness
between a man and his young daughter, beside being
pleasing in nature, is well-observed in detail:
He would be out in his tiny workshop under the
big maple, standing at his home-made lathe, turning
wooden pins for harrow teeth. The fine hickory shavings
would come writhing and screaming from the point of
his blue-hot chisel. He would pretend not to notice
her, sitting on the old tool chest, intently watching him.
“Let me treadle it, father. I like to.”
“Mind you don’t get yer foot caught under it now!”
Julia would snuggle in between his arms and stand
close, her back against his breast, pumping the broad
pedal that made the patched belt go snapping and
crackling on the great wooden flywheel, threatening to
bring it down on their heads; her father’s warm, hairy
forearm, tense on the chisel, moist with sweat and pow-
dered with fine sawdust, brushing her cheek almost as if
he caressed her.
In this, a rude father of the hamlet has his say:
Ham leaned far out of the open surrey and improved
his impaired articulation by relieving himself of a large
quid of tobacco, wiped his stubbly lips with the back
of a brown hand and continued: “You take this here
parson over in Wayne what’s been a-sayin’ lately that
th’ story about Jonah ain’t so. D’yuh reckon they’d
let him stay there and be as honest as that if they
didn’t know the hull town knows as how he’s had an
invite to a big church in Chicago? Not by a dang
sight! They just grin when he goes after the Old
Testyment fer a-sayin’ that th’ Lord God drownded all
them heathens fer spite. Cause they know that uf they
holler he’ll tell ’em to take their danged oP church
b’ th’ bell-clapper, ’n’ go t’ hell!”
The book tells of the adventures of Dinny from
birth to early manhood, following him through friend-
ships, college, calf-love, military camp and jobs as
type-setter and newspaper reporter. It is curiously
unequal in quality, inclining to the thinly romantic
in the big scenes and developing a comfortable natu-
ralism where the writer seems least interested in it
dramatically. It is from these parts that the quotations
are taken, and they form a large enough proportion
of the whole to keep the reader going.
"Owing to" —"Due to."
“D.E.,” scoffing at the use of the expression
“owing to” (B. 18/8/’37), is astray in stating it is
“often employed ridiculously,” if his idea of “ridicu-
lously” is represented by the example he quotes. It
is employed quite correctly in that example.
If “D.E.” had railed at the increasing use,
ignorantly or imitatively, of “due to” for “owing to,”
he would have been on surer ground. Even if “owing
to” is used (as it happens, quite legitimately) to
signify “because of”—other alternative meanings are
“happening as a consequence of” and “imputable to”
—why shouldn’t it be so used? If there were no
alternatives to a stereotyped set of words or phrases,
Bulletin scribes would find their style cramped con-
siderably.
Fowler has remarks on “due to” and “owing to”
in his Dictionary of Modern English Usage. “Under
the influence of Analogy,” he says, “ due to is often
used by the illiterate as though it had passed, like
owing to, into a mere compound preposition” ; he
adds that “ due must, like ordinary participles and
adjectives, be attached to a noun, and not to a notion
extracted from a sentence.”
Owing to is inserted “in the hope of calling
attention to it as a phrase that should be more used.
Its rights are now perpetually infringed by due to.
The difference is that, while o.t. can be either adjec-
tival or adverbial, d.t. can be only adjectival.”
Webster’s Dictionary states that “due” is “often
erroneously used in the phrase due to, meaning
‘because of,’ modifying a verb in the manner of a
compound preposition; as, he failed due to lack of
study.” The “due to” there should, of course, be
“owing to” (or, if “D.E.” prefers it, “because of”).
Fowler’s examples of the misuse of “due to,
which can be paralleled in every issue of our Great
Dailies, should be studied by all writers.
OLOGIST.
Reviewed Briefly.
FICTION . . .
Woman Called Willow: Joan Kennedy (Robert
Hale; 3s. 6d.). The enduring triangle in a North
Wales rural setting. Willow Garth, “child-woman
and shepherdess, has two worthy lovers. In the en
staunch David seeks death in order that she may go
to dear Stephen, who alone could give her happiness.
7 Was a Probationer: Corinne Johnson Kern
(Chapman and Hall ; 7s. 6d.). The story of a girl s
probationary period in a big general hospital, with
some romance and a little private sleuthing thrown
in for good measure. The author has something to
learn about fiction-weaving, but she writes sincerely
and realistically about probationers’ experiences. That
part of the book is good.
Cups of Alexander: Pearl Bellairs (Herbert Jen-
kins ; 7s. 6d.). Rival expeditions of mixed sexes are
searching in the Persian desert for the priceless cups
of Alexander. Guthrie in the one party and Lynne
in the other are mutually attracted yet held apart by
their respective loyalties. The author finds a way
out.
Polly anna and Polly anna Grows Up, by Eleanor
H. Porter (Angus and Robertson ; 2s. 9d. each). Two
from a series of schoolgirls’ novels whose total sales
run to millions. Copies received were promptly re-
quisitioned by a young person with the remark
“Eleanor Porter is the American Ethel Turner,” an
observation that should please all parties.
The Hatch Way, an omnibus volume comprising
Five Days, Spendthrift and A Couple of Quick Ones,
by Eric Hatch (Arthur Barker; 7s. 6d.), suffers from
the fact that these three novels all have the same plot
—a rich playboy, accustomed to living in an alcoholic
haze, brightened by horseracing, polo and large quanti-
ties of women, suddenly loses his money and makes
some sort of feeble attempt to grapple with the neces-
sity for earning his own living. The boast, to which
some color was lent by My Man Godfrey, that Hatch
is “the American Wodehouse” is not helped by these
further instalments of his work. The humor, such
as it is, is very mild, lacking those little impertinent
flashes with which P.G.W. wins a grin on every other
page.
The Awakening: Captain G. D. Mitchell (Angus
and Robertson ; 65.). Another world-war has broken
out and has caught Australia unprepared. Italian
invaders have landed on several parts of our coast.
Major John Cromwell tells —in somewhat melo-
dramatic strain how he rallied a commando of
bushmen and old soldiers to meet the enemy in North
Queensland. They arm themselves at the foe’s
expense and fight a desperate rearguard action while
news comes of disaster all over Australia. Our air
force is wiped out in the first three days, our small-
arms factories are bombed out of existence, and
Sydney is early reduced to a city of the dead. Crom-
well’s men fight to the bitter end. Their leader kisses
his sweetheart before he goes out to die with his men
in a last stand at Bulli Pass in the “sunset time of our
people.” Sincere, graphic and full of the right spirit;
though why any particular people should have been
chosen for the role of enemy is hard to see. W. M.
Hughes contributes a characteristic foreword.
GENERAL . . .
Elements of Stabling: Captain R. M. S. Barton
(Country Life ; 7s. 6d.). A handbook on the care of
the horse —feeding, grooming and a little on doctoring
—on the layout of quarters and on the care of gear.
The writer has had years of experience in India and
in England, and, though he writes primarily with
English conditions in mind, there are dozens of hints
Australian horsemen should find useful.
When the Veil Is Lifted: H. D. Campbell,
Archdeacon of St. Arnaud (Robertson and Mullens,
Melbourne; 25.). Fourteen short and gracefully-
written essays on the mystical side of religion. There
is comfort in them.
Building a Cottage: Esther Meynell (Chapman
and Hall; 7s. 6d.). In which the writer of Sussex
Cottage turns to the practical as distinct from the
romantic side of the building of her own home, not
without the assistance of her nameless architect, who
supplies nine excellent pencil drawings and a good
deal of the book. Those proposing to build their own
home will enjoy this.
The Efficacy of Broadcasts to Schools: M. L.
Thomas (Melbourne University Press; 35.). Forty-
eight page booklet embodying the results of an inves-
tigation by an Australian teacher on the relative value
of broadcast and ordinary oral lessons. Conclusions:
No significant difference in English, nature study,
arithmetic and history. In geography, oral lessons
favored. In English and geography broadcast groups
retained effects of lessons better than oral groups ; in
nature study and history, vice versa.
The Rev. T. Thornton Reed, of 319 Military-
road, Henley Beach, S.A., is engaged in the collection
of material for the writing of a “Life” of Henry
Kendall, and would be glad to hear from Bulletin
readers who may have unpublished letters or poems
written by Kendall. Any manuscripts sent to him will
be returned by registered post, and duly acknowledged
in the book when published. Reminiscences of those
who may have known Kendall during his life, or
whose parents may have known him, will also be
appreciated.
New “Penguins” and “Pelicans”: With the pub-
lication of ten additional titles the “Penguin” reprints
now total 100 volumes. Great discrimination has
been used in the selection of the titles for this popular
series, which has been so pronounced a success that
the publishers have launched the “Penguin” Shak-
speare and the “Pelican” series, which will be devoted
to reprints of popular works on science and economics,
all at 9d. per volume in Australia. The last ten
“Penguins” are Ghost Stories of an Antiquary (M. R-
James), The Hampdenshire Wonder (J. D. Beresford),
Wild Strawberries (Angela Thirkell), Saturday Nwit
at the Greyhound (John Hampson), The Man Who
Was Thursday (G. K. Chesterton), Selected Modern
Short Stories, Some Experiences of an Irish R.M.
(Somerville and Ross), The Murders in Praed Sti eet
(John Rhode) and The Worst Journey in the World,
two volumes (Apsley Cherry-Garrard).


Op deze manier is u
ALTIJD GEZOND
stud 7>i*nd rftW
II
¥k
r
t§t
■ ;
<5
A
3
J 0
4
m
. /
FR N K
WHITMAN
A
a
mao
Aamncj
You can always feel healthy
this way It
WOLFES
i-
WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS is
obtainable in large, half and
quarter size bottles at all hotels
A Glass of Wolfe’s Schnapps each day will bring you a
new sense of healthiness. This purest of all spirits, made
from the beneficial extract of Italian Juniper Berries, and
distilled in Holland, invigorates and tones up an ailing
system. It cleanses the kidneys, and purifies the bloodstream.
For the sake of your health, which is so important, take a
Wolfe’s Schnapps every day. It is the purest gin spirit in
the world and contains medicinal properties found in no
other spirit!
WOLFES
SCHNAPPS
PRODUCT OF HOLLAND
~fu) wju)) -ww&Jfio Acdb,
W.s-t-fift


PURPLE
PARA
K
■f
mm
u
■
m
m
u
m
m
mm
■
m
m
■ v
i
■
•.? v
m
I
%
m
mm.
|ml 9
m
m
m
: **■•
3d
Srai
■
■
s*s*
■
M
m
m
m
g?v|
si
**>
■
■'
as
Bf
MM
HP
•*"
11
1
B
■
M
Wine-filled Casks awaiting Storage in one of the Vast Cellars Available .
/


THE FLAMING SWORD APPEARS.
The blackguard Brent, suing for the annulment of his Mexican marriage with the Australian Jocelyn Howarth, declared that he had agreed to marry her because
of ‘pressure.’”
“The woman pressed me, and I did marry her; but it was all a fake.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
2521 BB; 'Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : National Mutual Buildings, 91
King William Street, Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Saywell Buildings, 115 Lambton
Quay, Wellington.
London: 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London,
E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques .)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 15s. 6d.;
3 months, Bs.
Posted Free to any address Overseas (Foreign):
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 25.; 3
months, 11s.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji, New
Hebrides and other places within the British
Empire, 2d. per copy. United Kingdom via France
or America, 2d. per copy. To all other places, 4d.
A STUPID SCARE.
Health is another matter which should be under
national control. What may happen in a country in
which seven Parliaments have the passing, and seven
Governments the administering, of public health laws
has been illustrated by the panic-stricken proceedings
of the Sydney Government since it became aware that
the latest of many small local outbreaks of an obscure
disease from which no country is ever quite free, and
which has not spared, though it did not crush, the
President of the United States, had occurred in
Victoria.
In the ninth week of the Victorian outbreak,
when the number of cases, including 20 discharged
from hospital, had reached 106 and there had
been eight deaths, the Sydney Government had
the impudence to ask the Commonwealth Government
to declare Victoria an infected area. The Common-
wealth Government very properly refusing, the Sydney
Government introduced, as the next best thing, an
emergency measure, and asked Parliament to pass it
at one sitting. The Assembly complied ; at the instance
of a Labor member—he said “This bill was handed
to us at eleven o’clock, and we were asked to carry
it at a quarter past eleven”—the Council objected,
though it was found amenable on the following day.
The bill provides that “any area in or beyond
N. S. Wales may be proclaimed an infected area” ;
that “the entry into N. S. Wales of any person who
has been or is suspected of having been in an infected
area in any other State or country” may be “pro-
hibited, except at places specified and under prescribed
rules and conditions,” and that the entry of sea-
going vessels and aircraft from infected areas may
likewise be restricted or prohibited. Although infan-
tile paralysis is aimed at, no disease is expressly men-
tioned. And these enormous powers, which have been
taken by a mere provincial Government in contempt
of the rights guaranteed to the Australian people by
their Commonwealth Constitution, are being enforced
by proclamation.
The Minister of Health, Mr. FitzSimons,
explained in the House that for the present it is
proposed “to apply the bill only to children of 16
years or under” (there are nearly half a million in
Victoria); “but if it becomes necessary it can be
extended to adults” (Victoria has about 1,350,000
adults). In a moment of candor he allowed that the
Victorian Government “had already applied very rigid
precautions.”
Another section of the measure admits of the
proclamation of parts of N. S. Wales as infected
areas, and of the general penalty (£100) being imposed
on N. S. Wales residents moving out of infected
areas or from one point of an infected area to an-
other. By the irony of events, the day on which this
extraordinary piece of legislation was introduced saw
two cases, one fatal, reported in N. S. Wales, and
one case, not fatal, in Victoria.
Mr. FitzSimons has had to admit that “there were
23 cases in N. S. Wales last year,” but he went on
to assert that “at no time has infantile paralysis become
so prevalent as it has in Victoria recently.” The gentle-
man must be ignorant of his own departmental
reports. Certainly they appear irregularly and at long
intervals, but the one “for the years 1931 and 1932,
ordered to be printed December 14, 1933,” has a
chapter headed “Infantile Paralysis Epidemic, 1931-
32.” It is signed “Robert Dick, Director-General of
Public Health,” and it states that “between October
1, 1931, and July 31, 1932, 463 cases and 63 deaths
were notified to the department.”
Two graphs are added. One, “illustrating epi-
demics during the years 1915-16, 1920-21, 1925-26,
1928-29 and 1931-32,” shows that, although 1931-32
had the highest number of cases and deaths, the
mortality rate was greater in 1925-26, when there
were 138 cases and 36 deaths —26.08 per cent. The
other illustrates “the annual deathrate and case-
rate, 1913-1932” ; and it shows that the case-rate was
highest in 1916, when it was 36.5 per 100,000 of
population, and the deathrate highest in 1932, though
it did not reach two per 100,000.
In 1931-32 there were 202 cases in the metropolis
(population 1,259,660) and 261 in the rest of the State
(population 1,287,534). The outbreak “reached its
height in Sydney a month to six weeks earlier than
in the country districts,” in which were included “the
south-east section as far as Moss Vale and the main
northern railway area from Newcastle to Glen Innes,”
though Wagga, Wyalong, Narrandera and Broken
Hill did not escape. The worst local infection was at
Bargo, among a population of 800, mostly unem-
ployed workers and their families ; during two summer
months, December 10 to February 12, there were 14
cases and five deaths. Of the 463 cases, 197 (21
deaths) and 189 (29 deaths) occurred respectively in
the 1-4 and 5-14 age-groups; among persons aged
25 and upwards there were only 10 cases and three
deaths. Dr. Dick refers to it “as a more extensive
outbreak of infantile paralysis than this State had
hitherto experienced,” yet it came and went without
the general public knowing anything about it.
Nor would the general public have known any-
thing about the mild Victorian experience if a craze
for alarmist writing and blood-freezing chatter had
not become fashionable. Nowadays the press must
have its “sensation,” and the provincial politician must
do something to give an appearance of justification
for his unnecessary existence, and some medical men
are never happy unless they are frightening people
out of their five wits. And so we have this absurd
scare, which, as Dr. Drew, the Sydney Medical Officer
of Health, points out, is apt to blind people to the far
greater ravages of diphtheria, and which may actually
increase susceptibility in cases where natural immu-
nity has not been secured: “nothing lowers the
resistance of the human being so much as ‘funk.’ ”
Apparently the exhibition the Sydney Government
has made of itself was inspired by a consuming desire
to get tourists for its sesquicentenary show. It is
more likely to keep them away.
Nice Place, Russia!
This year’s news from Russia began, some thought,
rather ominously. Two Soviet scientists one a
professor, the other a “famous chemist” —on leave of
absence to pursue research work abroad, flatly refused
to go back. This, in Russia, was considered unpatriotic.
It may have been good judgment. At any rate, it was
the January 1 cabled news concerning the “workers’
paradise,” and, viewing from abroad the Russian
scene since then, the two scientists, among others,
must have indulged in some deep thinking. In monthly
concentrated doses:
January.
One thousand six hundred delegates, representing
46 States, appointed to the Godless Congress, the agenda
including motions “for the formation of a central
office to fight the Christian religion and for the estab-
lishment of a Godless International.” Stalin ordered
a dinner-suit, by way of indicating the prosperity of
the “workers’ paradise.” The editor of “Isvestia” was
dismissed on suspicion of plotting against Stalin.
Radek, Sokolnikoff, Piatakoff and 14 others, rounded
up in the “Soviet purge,” were charged with “organis-
ing wrecking groups and plotting to kill Soviet leaders.”
Radek had been “Isvestia’s” chief leader-writer,
and “Isvestia” now described him (before the trial)
as “this wriggling, hypocritical, lecherous reptile.” He
and two others got off with 10 years each, another
with eight years; the rest were shot in the back of
the head.
Beloborodoff, the veteran Bolshevik who ordered
the execution of the Tsar, was arrested for “plotting,
terrorism, etc.” Navachin, “the brilliant Russian
economist,” was murdered as an aftermath of the trial
of Radek and co. Trotsky’s son was arrested on a
charge of “attempting to murder his fellow-workmen
in a machine factory by neglecting to provide an
outlet for fumes.” Two electricians were “detected
attempting to set a time-bomb in a room adjoining
Stalin’s.” The month ended with executions of lead-
ing Sovietiers, totalling 163 in three months.
February.
As a carry-over from the previous month, 100
more Soviet leaders were held to be guilty of “plotting,
terrorism, etc.” A “new purge” began in Tbilissy.
Piatakoff was shot as “a spy, a traitor and a would-be
murderer.” He had been Commissar for Heavy
Industry. His widow was “among those secretly
executed.” A quiet month.
March.
Judge Demidov was sentenced to death for
“murder, arson, perversion of justice and accepting
bribes.” Stalin declared that capitalist countries were
waiting the chance to attack and conquer the Soviet
Union. It was found that, by giving sheep a drug,
their wool could be taken off without the trouble of
shearing. Tactics to be employed by the Red Army
in its next war were adopted, including the “mass
dropping of soldiers in parachutes behind the enemy
lines.” A railway smash occurred; the assistant
stationmaster was executed and other officials were
gaoled.
April.
Rev. J. W. Burton, in Sydney, said that “stark
atheism was better in Russia to-day than the cruel,
oppressive religion of the old regime. There was no
compulsion against religion, but one felt that the
Communist party frowned upon it; Communism had
succeeded in Russia.” The Mayor of Rockhampton
said that in the smaller towns and villages which he
had visited in Russia the people were emaciated ; “only
a few had boots, and the rest wrapped their legs and
feet in hessian.”
Yagoda, formerly chief of the 0.G.P.U., was
arrested for “plotting, terrorism, etc.” A bomb having
been found ready to be exploded at will under the
box frequently used by Stalin in the Little Theatre,
the manager was arrested. Amazon brigades were
ordered to disband, having been found of use only
in “spectacular parades.” Their proper work, ran the
declaration, was “darning socks.” Madame Yagoda
committed suicide. Pauker, former chief of the
Moscow department of the 0.G.P.U., and responsible
for protecting the life of Stalin, was gaoled for “plot-
ting, terrorism, etc.” Madame Postisgell, “wife of
M. Stalin’s brilliant young former dictator of the
Ukraine,” committed suicide. To readjust the pre-
ponderance of males, 20,000 Soviet girls were ordered
to Eastern Russia. Shootings and suicides were
reported as an aftermath of the “purge.”
May.
“Pravda” called upon all loyal Russians for
“broader work against religion.” Charged with being
“terrorists, spies and wreckers,” 44 Russians, one a
woman, were executed in Siberia. By way of a change,
Commander Silvansky, “the famous parachutist/’ was
shot by an excited watchman “by mistake.” Fresh
orders for the combating of espionage were issued
and “many eminent Russians” were arrested, this out-
break, however, failing to achieve the honor of being
described as a “purge.” Subsequently, more “mass
executions” were reported ; details vague. Yagoda,
having been found guilty, was given the opportunity
of committing suicide, but refused, and was shot dead
in his cell by his successor, Yeshoff.
June.
Officially announced that Inspector-General
Gamarnik had “committed suicide.” A new “Soviet
purge” began, on which the London “Times” repre-
sentative commented: “The purge M. Stalin is now
carrying out embraces practically every sphere. The
peasantry is not much affected at present, but its turn
will possibly come after the harvest.” Eight generals,
pleading guilty of treason and espionage, were shot.
These generals all had great power, wealth, mag-
nificent palaces, summer resorts, splendid cars and
thoroughbred horses, acquired for services to the
revolution. They held nearly all the key commands in
European Russia. The Soviet press now describes these
ex-darlings of the army as poisonous pigmies.
On the day the news of their execution reached
Australia the first Australian Congress of Peace and
Friendship with Soviet Russia was addresed in Sydney
by, among others, Rev. J. W. Burton. Stalin was
treated in Moscow for heart' trouble. In fear of his
life, he had brought to Moscow his most faithful
regiments of Cossacks and Mongols to protect him.
Twenty-eight executions were reported from
Siberia, bringing the month’s total there up to 96.
Stalin commented on the execution of the eight
generals: “The men were traitors ; therefore I struck.”
A nephew of Trotsky was arrested on a charge of
disabling 16 ships, “under instructions from a foreign
Power.” The month’s “purge” was extended to the
Far Eastern and Siberian railway, 37 “spies” being
executed. The Commissar for Justice was arrested;
also the Commissars of the White Russian Soviet
Socialist Republic, the President “committing suicide.”
Agricultural wreckers were sent to gaol; number
indefinite. More spies were executed at Khabarovsky.
“Merciless purge continues.”
July.
“Purge” continued. The Premier of the Uzbek
Soviet Republic was dismissed for “counter-revolu-
tionary activities.” Six “Old Guard Bolsheviks” were
executed in Georgia (Stalin’s country) as “terrorists
and spies,” after “secret trials” at which “all pleaded
guilty.” To commemorate the opening of the canal
from Moscow to the Volga 55,000 “convicts” who had
worked for five years on the canal were “pardoned.”
August.
“Great purge” continued, but with “unprecedented
secrecy.” Victims believed to include Moskvin, a
“prominent member of the Third International”;
Chernoff, Commissar for Agriculture (“after the har-
vest”) ; Nathalia Satz, manageress of “the famous”
Moscow Children’s Theatre ; Arosieff, head of the
Department for Foreign Cultural Relations ; Fechner,
head of the Department for Poland and the Baltic ;
and “many officials of the Communist party in
Moscow, the Ukraine and elsewhere.” This “great
purge” also included the execution of agricultural
“wreckers,” “wreckers” among factory managers and
engineers and “Trotskyists, Bukharinists, bandits and
wreckers working for Japan and Germany.”
Soviet authorities announced that agents were
being sent from abroad to “spread disease deliberately
among the Soviet crops”—“in a foreign spy’s luggage
was found 51b. of cottonseed infected with cotton-
plant disease.” Three executive officials of the Soviet
Food Industry Board were sentenced to death for
distributing infected liver-sausage, poisoning 122
workers. Four sellers of the sausages were sentenced
to 10 years each. Eighteen “spies, terrorists and
wreckers” were executed for setting fire to buildings
and wrecking a railway.
This rough survey of the whole country’s well-
nigh incredible state of barbarity carries through to
the end of the first fortnight in August. It is merely
a summary of the main Soviet news over this, period,
leaving out of account the reports of numerous former-
Communist visitors to Russia, who have tragically
testified to the general wretchedness of the great bulk
of the people and the comparative slavery of uncount-
able ordinary workers, apart from conscripted slaves,
branded convicts, in such vast numbers that a batch
of 55,000 of them could be “pardoned” at the end
of a five-year job. Yet there are still a few in Aus-
tralia who regard the place as the “workers’ paradise’
and are liable at any time to get themselves on to
platforms advocating it and its “system” of govern-
ment as worthy of our emulation.
The pathetic truth is that Russia is still one of
the most backward and barbarous countries in the
world, lagging not less than a century and a half
behind civilisation as this is known here and else-
where.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
A Senseless Bomb Falls.
War reporters are no mean colorists, and accounts
of the latest melodrama of force raging in China
might leave trusting readers with the impression that
enough shells, bombs and machine-gun bullets have
been fired to shatter the Great Wall, and that Shanghai
is a vast ruin. But the position in Shanghai is not
so bad as all that. Tucked away in cables dominated
by a long and fearsome chronicle of combat about the
centre of British interests were half a dozen lines
from the Eastern Extension Telegraph Co., which
should be fully acquainted with the situation.
The districts chiefly affected at present are north
of Soochow Creek, Pootung and Nantao [i.e., away
from the European city]. Shanghai traffic is being
delivered generally with little interruption, and for the
time being “sender’s risk” no longer applies.
All the same, the English-speaking world learned
with an unpleasant shock that the British Ambassador,
Sir Hughe Knatchbull-Hugessen, motoring from Nan-
king to Shanghai with his military attache and
secretary, had been seriously wounded by a bomb
flung from a Japanese aeroplane. The Japanese
authorities apologised profusely, and pleaded that
they had not been notified that the Ambas-
sador would be on the road, though the Chinese
had been. It was suggested that the bomb-thrower
had mistaken his car for that of Chiang Kai-shek or
some other Chinese potentate.
No doubt the Japanese are as sorry as anybody.
They have been on good terms with Britain ever
since Japan was opened to Westerners, and it would
be perfectly insane foreign policy to fall out with it
while they are involved in a Chinese war, with the
risk of Russia joining in. It is inconceivable that they
would start a quarrel with the Empire by committing
a deliberate outrage on the inviolable person of an
ambassador.
What moral right have the Japanese to be bomb
ing the Nanking-Shanghai road when there has been
no declaration of war? Just as much as the Russians
had when they extended the Red fool-fury to the
Chinese province of Sin-Kiang— i.e., none.
Oriental warfare is sloppy, as well as ruthless;
and in China the rules of war, even as Europe knows
the dreadful thing, do not apply.
A Seat of War.
“Fong Tsz” makes a voyage:
Entering Shanghai from the sea gives an Australian an
uneasy feeling, as if he had arrived in Brisbane after a voyage
of centuries and found it hoary and Orientalised. The
Whangpoo winds in the same way as the Brisbane, but hms
seem to have been ironed out, and there is a spate ot: traffic
such as Brisbane has never known. There are strange junks
with torn sails, the Chinese sailor having a theory that a lew
holes in the canvas are a kindness to the wind. Most of them
have carved or painted stems on which the phoenix figures
as an emblem. Also, presently, there is a riot of sampans,
houseboats, motor-boats, big ships, modern wharves and a
skyline also modern, but with a touch of the Orient in its
make-up.
And here is what ought to be Breakfast Creek, but which
is actually Soochow Creek. Across it a variety of traffic
rushes and plods. On one side stand the British Consulate
buildings, set off by gardens; on the other —the sea side
the clustered groups of the American, Japanese and Russian
headquarters. The Bund sweeps up the river towards the
one-walled Chinese city curled up in the vast modernity of
commercial Shanghai, something the shape of a rolled-up
porcupine. A little way along is Sassoon’s great store, on the
corner of the busy Nanking-road, the George-street of
Shanghai.
All the big hotels, with one exception, are along the
Bund. There is a fine club, a fine racecourse; there are splendid
cafes and dance halls, a medley of languages, nationalities,
types of policemen and military as bewildering as anywhere
in the world.
Few strangers get beyond these sights, but back of them
is another China, the real one, Shanghai itself being no more
truly Chinese in its nature than Bombay and Calcutta are
true Indian-made India. Soochow Creek is the route to this
other country. Once upon it you find that it is wider and
more versatile by a long chalk than Brisbane’s Breakfast Creek.
Heavy and vociferous traffic does not prevent net fishermen
from operating in the centre of the stream or families in
houseboats from frequenting it. And there are countless
cook boats and peanut boats selling to persons who, living
within a few yards of the shore, find a visit to dry land an
event.
If you follow the creek long enough you come to
Soochow. And here is, or was a few years ago, an unspoilt
Chinese city in the old style, a sort of Venice in which
grey peaked roofs overhang tree-shaded canals just wide
enough for a couple of boats to pass each other on it.
Laughing, singing Chinese women wash clothes on their door-
steps. Massive bridges centuries old and scarcely scarred by
time give you moments of gloom. Costumes go back to the
pre-revolution era.
Everybody seems to be working and singing. At sun-
down the place sounds like a vast hive. Only an odd male-
factor being urged along, his hands tied, suggests that some
are not so happy.
The centre of the place is the Grand Canal, which is one
of the finest of monuments to Chinese industry. Nine hun-
dred miles long, it runs all the way from Tientsin to Hangchow,
which is a little to the south of Shanghai, with hundreds of
waterways brancing off it. It is as if somebody had delved out
a narrower and deeper River Murray, and it is a lesson in
what Australia might do in water supply and inland naviga-
tion.
There is a saying among the Chinese that heaven is up
above and Soochow and Hangchow here below, meaning that
those towns represent the acme of earthly beauty and felicity.
Sing-song girls of Soochow have been famous from time
immemorial, as have the Soochow scholars, but ancient battle-
ments contrasting with luxuriant greenery and the peaceful,
sleepy heave of traceried pagodas show that other arts were
practised perhaps a thousand years ago.
To think of this lovely, watered landscape, with its
teeming streets, its busy boatmen, its huge log rafts, carefully-
tilled fields and ethereal trees, as food for shellfire is to be
assured that the world is really mad.
Not for Australia.
E. C. Blayney, the Australian representative of
Rootes, Ltd., a London motor-selling firm with
Empire-wide connections, said to interviewers at
Fremantle that concrete motor roads with two-way
tracks would serve Australia better than its Govern-
ment railways do.
State transport bosses and politicians will have
to forgive Mr. Blayney ; he was demoralised by what
he saw in Europe and America. U.S.A. has big trans-
port concerns which run regular freight schedules
over routes 3000 miles long, using nothing but motor-
lorries. Another company runs large buses over 11,000
miles of road routes.
In England two splendid railways connect London
and Birmingham. Yet from 1922 onwards the roads
have been blocked at night with heavy motor-lorries
whose competition does not seem to have driven the
railway companies to bankruptcy, and by day with
tourist-bus traffic.
One of the best-known motor routes in the world
is that from Damascus to Bagdad, about 400 miles.
The road is a dirt track, very similar to the average
road on the blacksoil country in the west of Central
Queensland. The service is run by two Maorilanders,
the Nairn brothers ; their largest vehicle carries 68
passengers in train comfort, and is fitted with cooking
and emergency sleeping equipment.
This sort of service, so flexible and comparatively
cheap to run, would be ideal in Australia. But it will
be a long time before Australia enjoys it on a large
scale. State transport bosses and politicians will see
to that.
They "Showed" a Profit.
The very self-satisfied N. S. Wales Railway Depart-
ment has been raked fore and aft from a new quarter,
the “S. M. Herald” office. When his agony permitted
him to reply, Mr. Hartigan repeated the old story
that his last balance sheet “showed a profit.” It
certainly “showed” a profit, but the Auditor-General’s
last report showed losses amounting to £28,000,000
for 10 years, and the losses were real, though—as the
A.-G. stresses —greatly understated.
Mr. Hartigan asserts that his Government mon-
opoly gave last year “the very satisfactory return of
£3 15s. 7d. per cent, on capital invested.”
That figure was only slightly exceeded by one of
the four groups of English railways.
The main difference is that English railways pay rates,
taxes and dividends and Mr. Hartigan’s concern
doesn’t. Also, English railways have no statutory
monopoly, receive no annual grant from the Treasury
(Mr. Hartigan gets £800,000) nor any free-of-interest
loan (Mr. Hartigan acknowledges the receipt of one
of £3,300,000 “to overtake arrears of track mainten-
ance”). Further, English railway co. shares can be
sold. The N. S. Wales people’s interest in their Govern-
ment railways consists in an unmarketable obligation
to pay taxes and higher charges for such road carriage
as the Transport Strangulation Act allows.
Still, Victorians are in the same b"bat. Said
Opposition-leader Argyle, reviewing Mr. Dunstan’s
“prosperity Budget”: “The 1936-37 deficit on the
Government railways is said to be £401,000. The true
shortage was £1,098,000.” Nobody contradicted him.
--
Cot K.O.
A hero to the Left Wing foreign correspondents whose
“news” is cabled to Australia has fallen into disfavor.
He is a French politician, Pierre Cot, and, unfor-
tunately for the French, he is their Air Minister.
Though not himself a Communist, M. Cot is
very thick with Communists, and one of his English
admirers has written that, by way of rejoicing at the
formation of the Popular Front, he and Thorez, the
Communist leader, “drove down the Faubourg St.
Antoine together, while the crowd shouted ‘Les
Soviets partout’ and sang the Internationale.” M. Cot
went to Russia, and returned with the intelligence
that “the Soviet Air Force, with 3000 first-line aero-
planes, is the most powerful in the world.” During
the Abyssinian business, he was “one of the few men
in France who were prepared to go the whole length
of military sanctions,” and as Minister he “nationalised
all aeroplane production,” thus, as his friends ex-
plained, doing away with “the Merchants of Death.”
But in an unhappy moment M. Cot gave his
blessing to an international air race, from Istres
(France) to Damascus and back, for which the equiva-
lent of £22,000 (English) was put up as prize-money.
The Italians, on whom the panegyrist of Sovietism
was so anxious to impose military sanctions, nomi-
nated, and, to the horror of the French, a frugal as
well as a patriotic race, their ’planes, all military
types, beat the nationalised French machines by
hundreds of miles.
Italians finished first (in 17 hours 32 minutes,
averaging 218.05 m.p.h), second and third (one of
Mussolini’s sons was third); the Maorilander Clouston,
flying the De Havilland Comet that won the London-
Melbourne race —now, of course, a trifle passe —was
a creditable fourth. M. Cot was not present at the
finishing point, but his Under-Secretary was. To him,
according to the Sydney “Daily Telegraph” account,
the first French arrival (his time was 21 hours 2min.,
averaging 182.66 m.p.h.) said, in a voice of thunder,
“We didn’t do so badly with the trash you gave us.”
If M. Cot’s report on the pre-eminence of the
Soviet Air Force is worthy of no greater respect than
his efforts in the aeroplane-manufacturing line, it is
a poor lookout for France. Actually, in its internal
and in its foreign affairs the Republic, which the
conclusion of the Great War left supreme on the
Continent, has been badly served by its latest breed
of politicians with a very few exceptions, such as M.
Blum. Mussolini and Hitler have beaten them all
along the line.
Towards the Small-town Era.
Problems of defence are now troubling the minds
of Labor politicians who for years contended that
the need for defence had vanished, the League of
Hallucinations having arrived. One Labor member,
after musing on the state of his Big City, which has
powerhouses and bridges that could be easily put out
of action and a population which it is sufficiently
difficult to house and feed —no small percentage is
always unemployed—“ridiculed the idea that houses
could be made gas- and bombproof.”
The best defence is to be found in the break-up of
the Big City, that huge agglomeration where people
are crowded in their hundreds of thousands like lambs
herded for the slaughter. The situation which would
arise in conditions of panic is easy enough to imagine.
Commonsense insists that the Big City should be largely
dispersed and decentralised. It can be. So can all big
towns. 1
To-day there is no reason why industry should be
concentrated —why economic life in any respect should
be concentrated —in particular places. Cheap power
and transport and instant telephonic communication can
be made available anywhere.
And there is, of course, wireless to bring news anti
warnings, as well as instruction and entertainment, to
the small town.
Praising in Sydney the factory developments of
the past three or four years, the Prime Minister
regretted that they had been confined to the two big
States, and —except for one great enterprise—the two
biggest cities. He struck the right note. It is of
importance to the well-being and the defence of the
nation that these continuing developments should have
a wider distribution. There are many places in Aus-
tralia which, because of the climate, water supply,
accessibility to supplies of fuel and raw materials and to
deep-water ports, and of land values —excessively high
in the cities —are perfectly adapted to the growth of
secondary industries ; and in which people could have
as full and pleasant a life as they can have anywhere
else in the world. If we had 40 or 50 such new towns,
or old towns renewed, Australia would be much more
defensible than it is with its present unhealthy and
dangerous concentration of population in six capital
cities.
The queer thing about that Labor member, who
has looked into the future with something of states-
manlike imagination, is that he is a British Labor
member, and that the Big City referred to is London.
A Golden Chanty.
In a rarefied atmosphere Mr. Casey and Mr. Curtin
have been indulging in a sing-song about gold and
credit. It started with a newspaper article by the
Treasurer. Mr. Curtin, a bit late, but still in time for
the elections, seized on a point to croon for the
nationalisation of banking:
Mr. Casey’s declaration that the central banks in the
U.S.A. and United Kingdom carried out a policy as
agents for their Governments represents monetary
policy originating where it ought to originate, namely,
with the responsible Government of the nation.
In Britain, as a matter of fact, however great
the powers of Parliament may be, the fixing of the
price of gold is left to the Exchange Equalisation Com-
mittee, which has adequate banking and financial
representation. It is not a collection of Langs and
Beasleys by any means, and in practice is no more
subject to political expediency than is the Common-
wealth Bank Board. What Mr. Roosevelt and Con-
gress do in U.S.A. seems to be nobody’s business,
and until the New Deal works out its destiny it is
perhaps better that the affair be none of ours.
Mr. Casey had a lot to say about the burden
placed on Britain and the U.S.A. by the large amount
of gold they were obliged to buy. When Britain went
off gold in 1931 the Bank of England had about
£130,000,000 in gold. It has now about £326,000*000
—not enough to pay more than a portion of the war
debt due to U.S.A. Much of the increase has been in
the last 12 months, when French gold has flowed
across the Channel.
At the present time it isn’t difficult for Britain
to borrow cheaply (at less than 1 p.c.) on Treasury
bills to finance gold purchases. There is always the
liquid security of gold against such borrowing—-it isn’t
spent on “works.” And an essential thing is that
those who sell gold to Britain and U.S.A. can take
their money’s worth out of those countries only in
goods or gold ! Most British businessmen would wel-
come their taking it out in goods ; if it is taken out
in gold aeain—well, the gold has had a nice sea
voyage. So far as the metal’s price is concerned,
nothing is likely to happen to it that will unduly
depress commodity prices as a direct result.
A £2OOO-a-Year Job.
The first Australian Meat Council came into existence
13 years ago. It appointed a London manager at
£2OOO a year. The manager lived in a corner of Aus-
tralia House, and when politicians came to London he
took them to Smithfield market. After the organisa-
tion had been operating a couple of years, producers
voted it out of existence.
Under the hopeful influence of Dr. Earle Page,
another Meat Council has been formed with legislative
backing and its own finance. It is going to appoint
another £2OOO-a-year London representative.
The Meat Council seems to be under the impres-
sion that if it can only get an able salesman Australia
will double its overseas sales, which are worth only
about the same as in 1928-29, before export of chilled
beef became feasible.
British butchers are anxious to buy Australian
meat. Vesteys, who control or sell to about 4000
shops, already have several million pounds invested
in Australia. When there is Australian beef to be had
in quantities and qualities which match Argentine
meat, they will no doubt buy it.
In the last year or two it has, however, been hard
to fill quotas. And probably the best reason why no
enterprising expert bred in the trade is rushing the
A.M.C.’s good job lies in a strange conviction that it
is no use trying to sell more meat if you haven’t got
it to sell.


Society
"AND ITS PRINTED WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Beefeater”: Various suggestions for
brightening up the 150th anniversary
celebrations next year are being made by
Sydneyites who criticise Minister Dun-
ningham’s ideas on the form the rejoic-
ings should take as “stodgy” and “ordi-
nary.” Some regard open-air cafes and
battles of flowers as essentials of a real
slap-up carnival, and from the wife of
a Judge comes the reminder:
In Austria, Germany and other parts of
the Continent they celebrate by dancing
around maypoles. We could do the same.
We could, doubtless; and if their
Honors, fully robed and wigged, could
be induced to take part in the picturesque
diversion, it would certainly be an out-
standing feature of the show. For my-
self, I entertain hopes of seeing bullocks
roasted whole at various points of van-
tage, a pleasing British custom that used
to be inseparable from merrymaking on an
extensive scale. And I trust the masters
of the revels won’t forget the horseradish.
* * * *
“T.”: Eighteen months have elapsed
since Scriven, the Titles Office messenger,
was shot down in a Melbourne street and
robbed of the bag of Government money
he was carrying, and it now looks as
if the crime will never be sheeted home.
But it led to what must be a record in
murder cases. Two men were charged,
and went to four trials, interspersed with
an appeal to a State Court and one to
the High Court; after the jury had dis-
agreed on the last occasion, the Crown
announced that it would go no further.
One of the men has since been sentenced
to two years for perjury (committed at
the first trial); the other to six years for
having shot at a constable.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: Sir Frederick Keeble has a
surprising tilt in his new book of remi-
niscences at the “cultured English voice”
of the 8.8. C. wireless announcers—“clip,
clip, clip—it’s like haircutting.” He pre-
fers the varied tones of the Welsh miner,
the Cotswold shepherd, the Scots works
manager, the Midland carter, “the Syd-
ney bridgekeeper and —now, alas! to be
heard no more —the full, deep, deliberate
voice of King George V. talking to his
people like a man. They speak English,
the loveliest language that ever was,
beautifully.”
* * * *
“Debtor”: Sydney Bankruptcy Court
recently dealt with an estate which had
been sequestrated 41 years before. In
Perth a dozen years ago the will of an
octogenarian and fairly affluent testator
contained some small bequests to rela-
tives in England, and the local newspaper
in the deceased’s old home town pub-
lished a paragraph about it. An official
in bankruptcy with a retentive memory
recognised the name of the Perth testa-
tor, looked up old records and promptly
sent in a claim to the Westralian execu-
tors. It transpired that the deceased, be-
fore going to Australia, had filed his peti-
tion in England over 30 years before, and
was still an uncertificated bankrupt there.
Although the original liabilities were not
large, the total claimed by the old-time
creditors and their representatives, when
interest for the intervening years had
been added, made a big hole in the
estate.
* * * *
“D.E.”: It is a wonder to me that
King’s Cross, Sydney, is so neglected by
our story-writers. It is a more cosmo-
politan place than London’s South Ken-
sington, which, outwardly, it somewhat
resembles, and in its foreign colonies
alone there should be abundance of
material for good yarns. There are
Italian sets and Greek sets; White Rus-
sians and Red Russians (and don’t they
hate one another!) from Leba-
non, French, Germans, Scandinavians,
Americans and Estonians. Foreign
boxers and wrestlers make King’s Cross
their abiding-place, and at present it is
murmurous and decorative with Marcus
girls, for whom thoughtful shopkeepers
laid in supplies of the canned and bottled
vittles and cigarettes of their country.
“Back! Back! Land on the starboard bow”
And in the old houses, protected by
belts of shrubs and trees against encom-
passing flats and foreign invaders, his-
torical Australian families still abide.
Hilary Lofting has pegged a claim to
Woolloomooloo, though, to me, skilful
as his pen is, some of his ’Loo characters
are like the light that never was on
sea or land. A minor poet, dedicated to
a deed of high emprise, swore “by the
thousand virgins of Darlinghurst,” which
seems a trifle optimistic. But for the
story-writer King’s Cross is certainly a
virgin field.
* * * *
“Keg”: Evidently “Kimber Lee”
appreciates that “vital” small-town talk
(B. 25/8/’37), but tastes vary. I invari-
ably spend part of my vacation, not in
country towns, but as near as I can get
to the real bush. I always return to the
city with a feeling that I have talked too
much. The half-dozen people one comes
in contact with, by persistent questioning,
elicit personal information that one never
intended to impart. I know perfectly
well that it is only friendly curiosity.
But the middle-class suburb would give
it another name.
* * * *
“Violet”: Not all the ramps are con-
fined to the racing of horses, humans and
dogs. In the Old Country, where village
flower and vegetable shows are a regular
thing, exhibitors take it in turn to win
the prize, the chosen one sending up to
Covent Garden for his or her exhibit. A
recent police court case revealed a new
technique. One competitor swept the
board with a magnificent exhibition of
Brussels sprouts, a sort of cabbage with
many miniature heads, instead of one
large one, and all on the stem —the more
heads the finer the exhibit. A rival in-
vestigated, and when the owner was
looking the other way picked up one of
the exhibits and shook it. As he said in
the witness box, the sprouts fell off “like
leaves from a tree” ; investigation showed
that most of them had been stuck on
with seccotine.
“Ocnnee”: "Rough as bags (B.
11/8/’37) is certainly not a war-time
coinage, but of much earlier vintage.
Nearly 40 years ago I knew a shearers’
cook who wore the sobriquet, and a few
years later there was a boarding-house in
Howell, a mining camp near Inverell,
which earned the title.
* * * *
“Cowan”: Mention of Sydney’s de-
creasing birthrate (B. 18/8/’37) recalls
that Australia’s youngest township—
Somerset, at the site of the new Stanley
River dam (Q.) —claims to have the
highest birthrate in the Commonwealth.
It has been in existence about two years,
and its birthrate so far has averaged 130
per 1000. Total population is 962, of
which 420 are employed on the dam.
* * * *
“Exdig”: The death of Andy came as
a shock to our Returned Soldiers’ Club.
Andy was always on the spot on pensions
day, one of the jolliest of “the mob.”
Directly it was known that he had
died nearly broke an application was
made for funeral expenses from Repat.;
but, strangely, Repat. knew nothing
about Andy. The real shock came when
it transpired that Andy wasn’t a returned
man at all. The badge which enabled
him to put it over was actually the lost
property of a still-alive Digger who was
traced in Melbourne. Many men have
been brought to book for representing
themselves as returned soldiers for
fraudulent purposes ; I wonder how many
purely amiable frauds there are who
merely do it for the sake of posing as
one of the boys.
* * * *
“8.N.G.”: Early-day Papuan officials
were well grounded in Colonial Office
phraseology, and its! very pompousness
often served to accentuate the uncon-
scious humor in official documents. One
example I remember was written by an
R.M. to his opposite number in an ad-
joining division:—
Sir,—With reference to your letter of the
ult., I have the honor to report that
two of the deserters mentioned therein were
So'SdSe. m i havf thrhono'r V,
your obedient servant, J. Blank, R.M.
* * * *
“Queen St.”: Reference to the Bris-
bane pawnbroker Morwitch, who bought
Governor Anthony Musgrave’s landau
and pair, with coachman and groom
complete (B. 25/8/’37), calls up a
mental picture of him. Every evening dur-
ing the “Block hour”—4 p.m. to 5 p.m.—-
the equipage drove slowly up and down
Queen-street, Morwitch lolling on the
back seat with a fat cigar in his mouth
and a round, braided smoking cap on
his head. Writer was one day giving the
girls a treat in company with a Mel-
bourne friend when the apparition drifted
along. “What the” he began. “That’s
our Governor,” I explained—“a bit
eccentric, but very popular.” As the
entourage drew level my friend respect-
fully raised his hat. Morwitch, who
never took any notice of anybody or
anything as a rule, replied to the salute
by “cocking a snook” which was the
most emphatic and comprehensive thing
of its kind I have ever seen.
* * * *
“D.E.”: According to the statisticians,
Tasmania has a far higher proportion of
native-born Australians of British descent
than any other State. Of 227,599 Tas-
manians counted on June 30, 1933,
215,213 were British-Australians, 12,049
British “born outside Australia” and
only 332 foreign-born. Of 2,600,847
N.S.W. people, 335,187 were British and
20,077 foreign; of 1,820,261 Victorians,
193,353 were British and 13,721 foreign ;
of Queensland’s 947,534, 146,703 were
British and 13,095 foreign ; while South
Australia had 52,917 British and 3432
foreign among its 580,949 inhabitants,
and Westralia 100,694 British and 9212
foreign among its 438,852 —much the
highest proportion of British-born. The
foreign Tasmanians were nearly all
Chinese (104), Italians (80), Americans
(26), Germans (23) and Swedes (19);
there was not one Japanese, although
every other State has a Japanese colony.
Is it merely a coincidence that there were
so many Tasmanian-born V.Cs.?
*** * ,
“Chat”: Lice, which have recently
been afflicting New York flats, are the
cause of more trouble than most people
are aware of. Once in Sinai a delousing
tank was pushed up to the railhead, and
Light Horse regiments took it in turn to
have their togs treated. Every man
stripped to the buff and waited an hour
or so while the clothing was dealt with,
The day my regiment was treated, Jerry
must needs send a squad of bombers
along. When they appeared, the troops
scattered all oyer the landscape, each
man with his precious horse and nothing
else save his unblemished reputation. It
must have been a great spectacle for the
enemy airmen who flew low. I have often
thought I should have liked to read their
reports when they got back to H.Q.
* * * *
“Bundeena”: Can’t agree wih “Siz”
(B. 18/8/’37) that the increase in shark
attacks over the past few years is due
to any lack of natural food. My opinion
is that when a surfer is taken by a shark
it is more in the way of an accident than
a deliberate attack. I fish different out-
side grounds near Sydney throughout the
Y ea C and, judging fiom the schools ot
sharks we encounter, if the brutes were
really keen on a little human flesh the
number of surfers taken would run into
double figures daily. And let me tell
“Siz” there are plenty of good fish within
easy distance of the Heads. Under favor-
able conditions Long Reef can produce
as good fish as ever he hooked on the
North Coast, and if he likes to wet a
line at Whale Reef, 12 miles wide of the
Heads, I’ll guarantee him as good a day’s
sport as he has ever experienced.
COUNTER-LUNCH.
“At a meeting of the U.L.V.A., called to consider
a proposal for cutting down hotel counter-lunches
in Sydney, it was complained that they mainly
served to attract hoboes and suggested that they
might advantageously be limited to light food like
potato chips and cheese.”
Hoe in, while yet ye may, voracious souls,
On sandwiches and pies and sausage-rolls,
Welsh rabbits, trotters—all the varied fare
That philanthropic publicans prepare
As adventitious aids designed to swell
The volume of the other goods they sell.
Wade in, my brothers, for there’s cause to fear
Such delicacies soon will disappear
And all the snacks that click with pots and nips
Be whittled down to biscuits, cheese and chips.
Sprats to catch mackerel, you murmur low,
And possibly they were intended so.
Still, spare a thought for the unhappy plight
Of Bungs who find the mackprel won’t bite
And see the savories that deck their dishes
Grabbed by comparatively worthless fishes.
Free scran that brings no adequate return
May well occasion Boniface concern.
No need to wonder why his fancy skips
To cheaper substitutes in cheese and chips.
What profit can he look for, what reward,
When he has heaped his hospitable board
With what the dinner menus call hors d’ceuvre
If half a dozen miscreants manoeuvre
Their way toward it, nor from stoking cease
Till they have scoffed a good square meal
apiece,
Each for the single solitary sprat
He’s passed across the bar for beer—if that?
Be sure that’s not the way they’d lick their lips
Over a frugal course of cheese and chips.
But, still and all, the Bung of other days,
-I sometimes think, had wiser, subtler ways;
He never would have thought to boost his pub
By tendering his patrons fancy grub.
Hot anchovies and herrings red and salt
He banked upon to sell his hops and malt.
Twas in such thirst-provokers, I’ve a hunch,
You’ll find the origin of counter-lunch,
Which nowadays has seen a change to whips
Of countless kickshaws down to cheese and
chips.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Visme”: There was a big congrega-
tion in our church on Sunday evening,
it having been announced that the new
tenor would sing an offertory solo. When
he picked up his copy of “Jerusalem”
he decided its limpness would be the
better for some support, and borrowed
from a youthful soprano one of the songs
she had brought along for a purely secu-
lar entertainment which she was bound
for later. Placing it, title outward, be-
neath his solo, our tenor advanced into
position. He told us later he was some-
what disconcerted by the smirks on the
faces of the congregation. All they
could see was a large-print title-page an-
nouncing “I’m Meeting My Sweetie To-
night.”
* * * *
“Coot”: As a variant of the series of
strange pub names recently recorded,
consider the action of Henry Edhouse,
an old-time brewer of Stawell (Vic.).
He permitted the side of his brewery to
be permanently decorated with a large
Band of Hope advertisement.
* * * *
“Buzfuz”: The Launceston lad who
put away 44 bananas (B. 18/8/’37) can’t
compare with the efforts of George
Leader, a champion British trencherman
who died a few years ago. On one occa-
sion he consumed 50 pork-pies, while
a meal of four dozen eggs with a large
loaf of bread he showed to be well within
his capabilities. During one contest,
Leader was required to put 13 eggs and
“Stick ’em up!”
a pound of ham under his belt before
his rival started—as a handicap! His
death in 1933 must have been a blow to
local provision merchants.
* * * *
“El V.”: As a student of Russian cul-
ture, I am not surprised to hear that
they are going to shoot somebody at a
charming spot in Siberia called Novo-
Bisirsk because he encouraged an em-
ployee in dangerous driving which re-
suited in the death of nine children going
to a picnic and injury to 17 others. But
I am bewildered to discover that the
villain is both a garage proprietor and
a Fascist member of a Fascist band. The
main reason why we Australians of the
hairier sort are hot for Communism is
that we thought its principal tenet was
the liquidation of proprietors. I feel that
if there are still members of that ob-
noxious class in the U.S.S.R. subscribers
to the cause should ask for their money
back.
* * * *
“Toheroa”: M.L. Minister R. Semple,
speaking in Sydney at a Transport
gathering, mentioned that since M.L. has
provided a sentence up to five years for
the hit-run driver that despicable type
has faded from the roads. Not one case
has been reported since the passing of
the Act.
* * * *
“Ring Four”: “Scotia’s” census of
sawmill employees (B. 25/8/’37) recalls
a similar tally on the goldfields. I
worked in the same stope with an ex-
jockey and an ex-doctor as miners, a
pug and an accountant as boggers, while
for a trucker we had a young Uni. student
who was putting the vacation to practical
account. He afterwards lopped a joint
off his finger and collected sufficient com-
pensation to carry him over his next year
at the ’Varsity. The only one who had
been brought up on the smell of fracteui
was a “gunner” from Kalgoorlie, and
he prided himself on his classical violin
solos.
* * * *
“Orwell”: On the fence of a lane in
Elizabeth Bay, Sydney, appeared the
notice: “No Dogs Allowed.” By chalk-
ing out the middle stroke of the “N”
some joker made it read: “110 Dogs
Allowed.” And there is some evidence
to support the correctness of the revised
version. It reminds me that the last
part of the caution on French trains in
war-time, “Taisez-vous, mefiez-vous, les
oreilles ennemies vous ecoutent,” was fre-
quently altered by a few strokes to “Les
filles ennemies vous degoutent” (“Keep
quiet, take care, enemy girls disgust
you”).
* * * *
“Kellick”: It is still possible to find
tropical islands unaffected by tourist
traffic. When H.M.A.S. Australia visited
Gawa Island a few years back we were
warned that the natives might be wild,
and advised not to leave the vicinity of
the beach. When leave expired, however,
one man was missing. The ship was de-
layed and a search party started out. It
found him just in time—so he said—sur-
rounded by a gesticulating group, some
of whom were feeling his arms and legs
as if to appraise his worth for cooking
purposes. He tipped the scales at 16
stone, too.
* * * *
“Pluggin”: Prof. Jansky, who claims
to have received short-wave signals from
some extra-terrestrial station, is off to
Stockholm to confer with Prof. Stranger,
an authority on short-wave radio. Jansky
holds that these powerful signals, which
take anything from three to fifteen
seconds to reach the earth, thus setting
their distance at some millions of miles,
are received at regular intervals, and sug-
gest that some planet is trying to com-
municate with our sphere. He intends to
construct the most powerful short-wave
receiving set in the world, so it seems
“Buzz off —cant you see me and your wife's busy!"
that the Martians may yet gel a chance
of putting a couple of bob on the 2.30 at
the Park.
* * * *
“Spare Corp”: “Double Disc” (B.
25/8/’37) is right in saying that the Ger-
mans were not altogether blameworthy
for the bombs which dropped upon the
hospital at Etaples. Whenever Fritz
shelled back-of-the-line towns he was ac-
cused of making the church his special
target. Naturally, the church, usually
the biggest building in a village and in
its centre, was a bull’s-eye of the target,
but there were other military reasons
for singling it out. When Morbeck was
shelled in 1918, one of the humors in
a grim business was the hurry in which
the artillery observers came down from
the tall, slender spire.
* * * *
“Notaden”: Three months ago the Q.
Uni. Physiological Lab. took six healthy
young rats from the same litter and fed
them on good average diet for five weeks.
Then they were divided into three groups
of two each and put on different diets.
Group 1 had white bread, jam, chocolate,
cooked potato and water. Group 2 got
white bread, a little butter, fruit, vege-
tables and water. Group 3 were given
milk, wholemeal bread, butter, fruit, raw
lettuce, tomato, cooked peas and beans
and meat. Each group had all it could
eat of its particular tucker. Five weeks
later Group 1 were weary and listless,
Group 2 just f.a.q. rats. But Group 3
were totally different animals, weighing
more than twice as much as either of the
other two, all solid bone and muscle,
alert, ferocious, glossy-coated and in-
tensely active.
* * * *
“Captain Pintle”: Mariners think
better of the Commonwealth Lighthouse
Advisory Committee since its decision to
instal new lights and improve conditions
in places which badly need it. The
dangerous and extending Four-Fathom
Patch west of Z Reef, near Cape York
(N.Q.), is to be avoided by a light on Y
Reef showing a new passage to the east-
ward. A manned station at Eshelby
Island will reduce another risk, and the
new light on North Point will clear the
Three-Fathom Patch west of Cape More-
ton on a course for Caloundra Head from
More ton Bay. A lighthouse at Cape
Ronsard (W.A.) is another much-felt
need now to be remedied. But, until
radio beacons are provided at Booby
Island (T.S.) and Sandy Cape, two thick-
weather risks will continue to exist on the
Queensland coast.
* * * *
“Hamer”: An old acquaintance of
Australia, one Charles Zimmy, set out
recently to spend six days in the Hudson
(U.S.A.) and swim 143 miles, being fed
and pausing for a smoke and a sleep in
his damp bed when he felt inclined.
Zimmy lost his legs when he was nine
years old ; when in Australia he declared
that leglessness was an advantage to a
swimmer, as he could not get cramp in
limbs that did not exist. Actually many
men seem to get on very well in the
water without lower limbs; Sydney
beaches attract a number of well-known
surfers who are either legless or one-
legged.
* * * *
“D.N.”: Might have been Brigadier-
General Crozier’s revelations in The Men
/ Killed that prompted a speaker at a
Christchurch (M.L.) returned men’s re-
union to tag a new angle on the old ques-
tion of who fired the first shot in the
1914-18 bother. He went several days
better than most claimants—six days be-
fore August 4, the official war declara-
tion date, in fact. His claim was made
for H.M.S. Vanguard, on which he
served ; he said she put to sea on July
28, and next day fired on and sank two
trawlers, the crews of which were taken
aboard as prisoners of war. He declined
to say where the action took place or to
what nation the trawlers belonged. Any-
one in Australia ever heard of this?
* * * *
“Nitric”: “Four dozen fruit essence
and 10 tins of baby powder” was an
order I recently overheard a New Eng-
lander giving to our local storekeeper.
For a fruitful household? No ; for too-
fruitful rabbits. Essence and baby
powder are lures for thistle-root-and-
strychnine baits.
BACK FROM BORNEO.
“Mr. Theodore, returned from Borneo, reported
favorably on areas held by an Australian company
which ;in the past had yielded millions of pounds’
worth of gold and diamonds to Chinese and Dyak
miners, worked by the most primitive methods and
without machinery.”
Time was in high affairs of State
He did his bit and played his part,
A doughty figure in debate
Till Lang upset his applecart
And left him permanently free
In quest of bigger game to go,
He's struck it rich in far Fiji
And now he’s back from Borneo.
Wild men undoubtedly he knew
At Canberra in days gone by
When bitter gibe and insult flew
Across the floor incessantly.
In grimmer peril now he’s been,
Returned from hiking to and fro
In jungles where he might have seen
The real “Wild Man from Borneo.”
Joe Lyons is back from London town
And Coronation’s joyous roar,
And Archie Parkie’s foot is down
Upon his native heath once more.
And, just as cogent as of old
When foremost in the Labor show,
With glowing tales of wealth untold
In diamonds as well as gold,
Bonanzas rare that wait the bold,
Our Theo’s back from Borneo.
N.S.W.
IFORD.


WIBB3
Smoker’s throat?
never , I smoke —
CRAVEN A
THEY ARE MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS
f— *1
x.v:ixx,:::.
'.v.v.v.v.v.v
f- .
Hi
V
THE
TIPJPED CIGARETTE
THIS GENERATI
POLITICAL POINTS
Casey has introduced what is styled
“a Defence and Pensions Budget.” There
is nothing for the taxpayers save the grim
consideration that expenditure on pen-
sions is to rise by £2,000,000 to an esti-
mated £15,900,000, which will probably
be exceeded. Even at £15,900,000 it will
be £4,400,000 more than it is proposed to
spend on defence, and £2,500,000 of that
is to be borrowed from the Common-
wealth Bank in London on Treasury bills
and, “at an appropriate time, funded
from the proceeds of a public loan.”
Casey expects a surplus of £30,000.
Last year he put the figure at £45,000.
He was a mere £1,231,000 out.
In five years and a half (December 31,
1931, to June 30, 1937), during which
there was brisk “semi-Government” and
municipal borrowing, the Commonwealth
and State Government debts soared from
£1,182,566,000 to £1,262,872,000. State
Governments borrowed all the difference
and more; Casey claims that the
Commonwealth debt decreased by
£11,019,000. He must be astonished at
his own moderation, for he is going to
borrow some more—and in London!
Tummas Paterson has discovered that
for the seven years to June 30, 1936,
Australia lost by emigration nearly 30,000
people of British stock. During the same
period taxes were multiplied to such an
extent that States are now taxing tax-
money, and, though national income has
fallen heavily, tax-revenue shot up from
£88,000,000 to £104,000,000. The con-
nection should be obvious, but Tummas
can’t see it.
Federal Labor fought the 1925 election
on the now-forgotten Spahlinger t.b.
treatment, and perhaps it is going to
make infantile paralysis an issue this
time. Beasley ranted on the subject in
the House on Thursday, asserting ridi-
culously that “those children who sur-
vive this disease are permanently incapa-
citated,” and raising his shrill voice in
denunciation of “this Government, which
has great resources at its disposal but
does nothing.” FitzSimons, for his part,
has posted policemen at all the Murray
crossings to prevent half a million
Victorian children swimming to the
N.S.W. side. These days the Sydney poli-
tician is certainly living up to James
Edmond’s name for him the Eternal
Nark.
If there is one subject on which none
should be for the party and all for the
nation, it is defence. But even in the
present world situation the party poli-
ticians can’t rise above their sordid con-
tentions sufficiently to make the safety
of the Commonwealth non-party. Each
crowd has its own defence policy, and
there was “a scene in the House” last
week when policy-mongers clashed. Park-
hill, of course, was in it and had to with-
draw the statement that Brennan had
“vilely slandered the Empire.” Texas
Green, for his part, had to withdraw the
statement that Parkhill was “a spineless
coward.”
Curtin, spouting on defence, said that
“Mr. Hughes had said aerial defence was
the only defence within the capability of
Australia.” If Billy said that the less
Billy he. No civilian has had better
opportunities of judging the fighting
qualities of Australian soldiers ; he was
in France when they took Mont St.
Quentin. But did Billy say it?
The maximum rate of pension is again
to be £2 a fortnight, and the number of
pensioners is reckoned at 300,000. The
addition of Is. a week is warranted by
the increased cost of living. But if sales
tax and revenue duties had been cut last
year, when revenue was nearly £1,455,000
in excess of Casey’s estimate, the pen-
sioners might have got greater value for
19s. than they will presently be getting
for a pound, and the recent money-wage
and cost-of-living increases, which Gov-
ernments as well as private employers
have found awkward, would have been
limited, at least. Unfortunately the
Caseys of politics are impervious to such
considerations.
After their stay-in strike had lasted 15
days, the Melbourne gasworkers went
back for a concession—three bob a week
—which they could have got without
staying in. Being average decent Aus-
tralians with the national bent for being
resourceful in emergencies, they made the
best of their self-imposed imprisonment;
all the same the stay-in strike is a threat
to the system under which they have be-
come resourceful, and have gained rights
and privileges which people who have
“I preface what I have to say by declaring the unswerving allegiance of this party to
the British Commonwealth of Nations We insist that this nation shall not be committed
to warlike activities outside Australia without the absolute and established consent of the
Australian people.”— Mr. Curtin.
“Our buzzums are almost bursting with devotion to the Empire. Defend it?
H’m ; that’ll need a referendum. Call again in six months’ time.”
had to accept other systems have lost.
There should be no more of this dan-
gerous tomfoolery.
A Warwick (Q.) magistrate recently
enunciated an old principle which might
well be recollected in other places and
States. Having got verdicts against 10
Warwick people for having unlicensed
wireless receiving sets in their possession,
the P.M.G.’s prosecuting officer claimed
6s. in each case to cover expenses from
Brisbane and back. The magistrate said
it would be unjust to impose an extra
penalty merely because the offenders
lived in Warwick instead of Brisbane. It
is sound law and sound Australianism.
Any unexpected departure from Vic-
toria’s routine life breeds another board
or the equivalent. The infantile-paralysis
scare gave birth to a medical “consul-
tative council,” and the Gas Regulation
Act, designed to ration private consump-
tion of alleged gas while the stay-in strike
was on, provided for a board. Apart
from talking, it would be interesting to
know what provincial politicians expect
to get paid for.
Franco’s army has taken the city and
province of Santander with a big bag
of prisoners. “S. M. Herald” now almost
invariably calls his troops “insurgents”
—they used to be always “rebels” —so it
must have the feeling that they are going
to win.
Melbourne “Age” and “S. M. Herald”
have been expressing their sentiments
about Mussolini. Like the parson who
preached on the Devil, they are not in
favor of him. The “Age,” which re-
tains a blind faith in all the foreign
“news;” which comes to it, finds in “the
cable message published in our columns
that Mussolini has twice invited Haile
Silassie to return as a puppet sovereign
a righteous if somewhat sardonic
Nemesis.” And so it might be if there
were any truth in the cable message, but
it was just another “Cronk News” lie.
Tasmania receives favorable mention
in a British P.R. Society report, which
points out that at the last Assembly elec-
tion Labor got a seat for every 3959
votes and the Nats, one for every 3933.
The P.R. people claim that adoption of
their system might have prevented the
uncivil war in Spain. As it was, nearly-
equal voting gave the Left 265 seats in
the Cortes and the Right 191, and “the
exaggerated victory of the Left was fol-
lowed by serious disorders, murders and
reprisals.” Then the Right rebelled. All
the same, P.R. was buried without tears
in N.S.W. after the discovery that it
admitted of seats being bought with
billets.
Jack Barnes, of the A.W.U., who is
out for the Senate again, reports after a
tour of northern Victoria that “very
little interest is being taken in the
Federal election, but a very deadly
undercurrent is running against the
Lyons Government.” But what’s the
use of an undercurrent without a bit of
enthusiasm?
The predominantly Democratic Con-
gress has adjourned after chucking out
most of the measures on which the Demo-
cratic President had set his heart. Our
Great Dailies have now discovered that
“Mr. Roosevelt’s prestige has waned con-
siderably.” One of them made the prior
discovery that the chances of world peace
depended upon his getting a third term
—this when he had nearly four years to
go. No President has ever had, or is
ever likely to have, a third term.
Politicians certainly do themselves well
when they go abroad. The Lyons-Casey-
Parkhill bills for five months to May 31
amounted to £12,024- McLachlan’s trip
to the Science Congress in Maoriland, at
which he was an outsider, cost £267.
Fourteen officials, whose services were
required overseas by somebody or other
(one was the Auditor-General who is
about to retire), received £4017 in addi-
tion to salaries. Presumably the idea is
that the public can stand it all —anyway,
the public does stand it.
A Parliamentary paper has revealed
that 90 broadcasting licenses are held by
commercial stations, and that newspapers
are interested in about a third of them.
Labor members rail, and there are obvi-
ous dangers in the same news —foreign
“news” particularly—being fed to the
public through its ears as well as its
eyes; but the newspapers’ radio invest-
ments are fundamentally a measure of
self-protection. Looking back, they could
have prevented the growth of commercial
broadcasting; none of the parties would
have given a frosty reception to a pro-
posal that A.B.C. should have all the
powers of 8.8. C. But it never occurred
to the newspapers to make it until it
was too late.
In common with bishops, professors,
professional athletes and a lot of other
politicians, Casey has taken to writing
newspaper articles. In one he argued
that Australia couldn’t really get along
if troops of Ministers and mandarins
didn’t trip overseas every now and then,
and mentioned the following:
At the Imperial Conference there were
those of us who sought the still further
withdrawal of Britain from European en-
tanglements, but ended by being satisfied
that her policy was the best.
On all such occasions the same result
could be secured for the cost of a
cable or beam message: “This Govern-
ment concurs.”
Perth’s Mayor Poynton, who went to
the Coronation at his own expense and
kept his eyes open during his travels,
reports that he nowhere saw communi-
ties going in for trolley-bus services, as
the Westralian Government is doing. The
Adelaide transport authorities and the
Sydney Government are equally keen on
trolley-buses, though their suitability for
Australian conditions has yet to be
demonstrated and if trouble came they
might be put out of action by hostile
bombers who could reach Australia in
one hop. In any case, it’s a fool’s game
to lock up a lot more borrowed money in
any form of transport that may become
obsolete.
Trotsky has “made his first statement
to Australia” through F. E. Baume, of
the Sydney “Sun,” perhaps drawn to
him by the sympathy of the circumcision.
Mr. Baume credited Trot, with “an extra-
ordinary knowledge of t,he Common-
wealth’s social affairs,” but abstained from
comment on his references to the “com-
ing war, for which, alas, one will not
have long to wait” (Trot, has been wait-
ing for and talking about it for at least
18 years), and the bearing on Australia
of the latest shindy in China.
The fate ultimately of Australia, in at .
least 50 per cent, [whatever that may
mean], is being decided in Shanghai and
China in general. Support for a war of
liberation by the Chinese nation against the
Japanese plunderers represents one of the
most important conditions for the defence
of the independence of Australia and New
Zealand.
Why, this is sillier than the cackle of
Professor John Anderson and Professor
Roberts!


//
D 9 Noall Recommends
a nose-^rip/
D?'Wiseacre, savs
Plug the mose WITH
COTTON -WOOL. v '
Mo; Billv Hughes says
You MUST SPRAY HUM
with Picric acid "
H. / /
WERE WRONiG,j YOUVE
TO SMEAR THE NIOSTRIUS
WITH SULPHATE of ZIMC "
// » vv
VvHATS WRONG, V/ITH
/; OR A PESPISA.TOR ?"
ft. , c '
NOTHING, w/ronq with HIY\ except THE TCEATMeNT
Giwe. him fresh aosl > VN
TOO MANY COOKS.


Trains like hotels,
every
new service for comfort.
Scenic wonders of the
Canadian Rockies. Go via
Canadian Pacific for new
experiences. Moderate fares.
QuiaJliart.(jhcifrc
247 George Street, Sydney
59 William Street, Melbourne
Canadian Pacific Rly• Co., Inc. in Canada
BELVEDERE l>2'J BELVEDERE' 1>W BELVEDERE ■*»
ķ
MADE BY
MARTIN, SONS & CO., LTD.,
HUDDERSFIELD, ENGLAND,
THE FOUNDERS OF THE WORSTED INDUSTRY.
w ■%/' w"
THE IDEAL OF ALL WELL-DRESSED MEN,
POSITIVELY
THE LARGEST RANGE OF EXCLUSIVE DESIGNS
EVER PRESENTED FOR MEN’S
SUITINGS
MwWn&UliW
&uv<•/(«(' '*•' .Buxm 1 frifjtuini
Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House-
holders’ Comprehensive, Workers’
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
PERSONAL ITEMS
N.S.W. Governor Wakehurst on an
inland tour has been following the tracks
of his father, then Gerald Walter Erskine
Loder, who was out here on holiday in
1886. Pa returned to England to be
admitted to the Inner Temple, then to
take up political work as private sec. to
the President of the Local Government
Board and to Lord George Hamilton,
Secretary of State for India. He got into
Parliament as member for Brighton in
1889, and stayed there for seven years,
when he was made a Junior Lord of the
Treasury. ,He was created the first
Baron of his line in 1934, the present
Governor being his heir and successor.
Second-last of the Duracks who
pioneered the East Kimberleys, Michael
Joseph Durack has passed on at Perth
at 84. Durack was born in N.S.W., but
went out on the Barcoo with his brothers
to found Mooraberrie, out of which they
were driven by drought and flood. In
’■B3, Michael, with his brothers John and
P.M., Tom Hayes and Tom Guilfoyle,
took to the track with 5000 cattle and
landed half of them two years later on
the Ord River, where they founded Lis-
sadell. Michael’s cousin, M. P. Durack,
of Argyle, is the father of the brilliant
girls who wrote and illustrated All-About
and Chunuma, published 'by The Bulle-
tin.
Harry Egerton Wimperis, president of
the Aeronautical Society, after 12 years
as director of scientific research for the
British Air Ministry, comes to Australia
to advise the Government on problems
of the air. Australia, now going in for
Aeronautical Adviser.
constructing aircraft, has problems
peculiar to itself, needing an experi-
mental and research organisation, and
Wimperis is to lay the foundation of this.
He has invented a gyroscope to measure
the roll of a ship, a gauge to read the
drift of aircraft by day or night and a
course-setting sight.
Ringmaster Philip Wirth has cracked
his whip for the last time. He was prac-
tically born in the circus ring. His
father came to Australia in the ’fifties and
organised a troup of musicians and acro-
bats, and as his children grew up they
joined the show. Philip grew too big for
acrobatics —he was a six-footer of 14
stone —and became the horse-trainer of
the outfit. He even proved he could teach
tricks to zebras, and for a bet made mus-
tangs waltz in South America. With his
brother George he took a circus from
Australia and toured the world for seven
years. Of the four brothers George, re-
tired from the business, is the only one
remaining. Philip’s sorts and daughters
carry on the show.
In Sydney is Dom Stephen Moreno,
of the Benedictine community of New
Norcia (W.A.). Born at Corella in
Spain, he entered the Benedictine Order
at 14. Soon he was given opportunity
to develop his talent for music in Italy
and Germany, and he is now one of the
leading composers of the Catholic
Church. During his 20 years at New
Norcia he has written everything, sacred
and secular, from hymns to orchestral
works, including a cycle of 20 songs
“Around the Boree Log” and “The Song
of the Shirt,” based on Hood’s poem. He
takes charge of the music for the
Eucharist Congress at Newcastle next
February.
The family of Eric Drummond, first
secretary-general of the League of
Nations and at present Ambassador to
Rome, who succeeds his half-brother as
Earl of Perth and Viscount Strathallan,
has one Australian connection—an
earlier holder of the Strathallan title was
a close friend of Macquarie. He became
Macquarie’s executor and a beneficiary
under his will, and acted as the guardian
of his only son. There was something
ironic in the career of the present peer
as the first administrative head at
Geneva; the Drummonds have always
been vigorous fighters both on land and
sea, and there have been few genera-
tions in the past 500 years in which the
blood of some of the main line has not
been violently spilt.
Max Meldrum, just appointed a
trustee of Melbourne Art Gallery, is the
only Australian
painter who really
founded a school.
He won Melb.
Gallery’s travelling
scholarship in the
last year of last
century, and there-
after lived for
some years in Brit-
tan y, exhibiting
each year at the
Paris Salon. Re-
turning to Mel-
bourne he initiated
a new sort of im-
pressionism, the re-
sults of which ap-
peared to be very
slightly out of
focus. He and his disciples, notably
Colin Colahan, applied this method very
successfully to portraiture and other sub-
jects which could be painted by artificial
light. Certain atmospheric conditions,
particularly Melbourne’s mists and fogs,
have been better portrayed by the Mel-
drum method than any other. For long
considered by the majority of his
brethren a heretic and a crank, Mel-
drum’s Gallery appointment puts him
well within the pale of orthodoxy.
Sydney turf identity and margarine
manufacturer Tom Hannan, dead at 75,
was a Celt from Kilmurry, landing in
N.S.W. well over half a century ago.
He raced Lager, Lady Denman, Beck’s
Lager, Vodka and All Wheat, the
last two the first winners of the Adrian
Knox Stakes. Hannan will long be re-
membered for the vociferous encourage-
ment he bestowed on any of his horses
from barrier rise to finishing point.
Generous and good-humored, he was a
life member of Tattersall’s Club.
Prendergast is. dead. Labor Assembly-
man for 40 years, Premier for 123 days
(July 18 to November 18, 1924) and twice
Chief Secretary—Elmslie’s for 13 days in
1913 and Hogan’s for 552 days, 1927-
28 —he lived to be Father of the House
“PRENDY,” as Low saw him in his
heyday.
and its last remaining link with “colo-
nial”’ Assemblies. He was a printer by
trade, and was 40 when he entered poli-
tics. Willie Watt looked quite a boy
beside him when Willie beat the then
bearded and mature “Prendy” in 1897 ;
and Watt is old enough to have stood —
unsuccessfully—for the first Common-
wealth Parliament. Everyone liked
Prendy, and the fine old boy will be
missed. Robust Victorian patriot as he
came to be, he was a native of Adelaide.
Allan Hammill Uther, appointed to the
N.S.W. Taxation Review Board, entered
the service in 1900, and was Examiner of
Titles in the Registrar-General’s Depart-
ment before being appointed Chief Par-
liamentary Draftsman in 1922. He is
joint author with J. A. Thompson of the
textbook on the Conveyancing Act, and
is a recognised authority on the law of
real property. Member of R.P.A. Hos-
pital Board and councillor of St. Paul’s
College, he has also helped the work of
ambulance transport.
The recent Victorian municipal elec-
tions saw the disappearance of several
prominent figures. Shire councillor T. F.
Harrison went down by a small margin
after 42 years’ continuous service at
Benalla ; two former Mayors were beaten
at South Melbourne —knight Charles
Merritt, not yet back from the manage-
ment of the Australian rifle team at
Bisley, who had been in the council 22
ears, and A. K. Wallace, former Labor
M.L.A.
Frank Debenham was not the only
New Education delegate to revisit his
native land. Dr. H. R. Hamley prefaced
an address in the Wilson Hall at Mel-
bourne Uni. by stating that nearly 40
years ago he had sat in the same hall to
compete for a scholarship examination.
He was a Ballarat boy and, after rising
to the principalship of the Melb. Uni-
versity High School, went to Bombay and
New York, thence to London University
as Professor of Education.
Some September birthdays:
S.A. Senator Duncan-Hughes, 55, on Ist;
Archbishop Duhig (Bris.), 66, on 2nd; Prof,
knight Francis Anderson (Syd.), 79, J. W. Greene
(ex-Lord Mayor of Brisbane)), 61, and George
Rowe (sec. A.J.C., Syd.), 56, on 3rd; General
(and Senator) Brand (Vic.), 64, on 4th; Mac-
pherson Robertson (Vic.), 77, on 6th; C. J.
Dennis (“Sentimental Bloke”), 61, E. J. Har-
rison, M.H.R. (Wentworth), 45, on 7th; Bishop
Coleman (Armidale), 50, and Q’land Attorney-
Gen. Mullan, 66, on Bth; P. V. Storkey, V.C.,
46, Dr. J. M. Baldwin (Vic. Govt. Astronomer),
59, G. W. Martens, M.H.R. (Herbert), 65, and
S.A. Min. for Agric. A. J. Blesing, 58, on 9th;
Adelaide’s ex-Lord Mayor Lavington Bonython,
62, and V. C. Thompson, M.H.R. (New Eng-
land), 52, on 10th; L. J. McKean (N.S.W.
Crown Prosecutor), 52, on 12th; Field-Marshal
Birdwood, 72, and Vic. Senator Guthrie, 65, on
13th; W.A. Chief Justice Northmore, 72, on
14th; W.A. Min. for Lands Troy, 60, and Prime
Minister J. A. Lyons, 58, on 15th; Prof. Walter
Murdoch (W.A.), 63, and Commander Williams
(Navigation Dept., Syd.), 58, on 17th; ex-Prime
Minister Scullin, 61, Justice Webb (N.S.W.), 52,
and Alexander McVernon (Q’land Ins. Co.), 66,
on 18th; Bishop Maquire (Townsville), 56, on
19th; Will Ashton (Director, N.S.W. National
Art Gallery), 56, Q’land Auditor-General G. L.
Beal, 68, and author lon Idriess, 47, on 20th;
J. F. Coates, M.L.C. (N.S.W.), 59, on 21st;
Bishop Davies (Carpentaria), 54, and W.A. Min.
for Mines S. W. Munsie, 67, on 22nd; Major-
General Brudenell White, 61, on 23rd; Bishop
Snowdon Hay (Tas.), 70, knight Sam Hordern,
61, Col. G. F. Murphy (N.S.W. Sheriff), 54,
and author E. S. Sorenson, 68, on 24th; W. M.
Hughes, 73, on 25th; S.A. Chief Justice Murray,
74, on 27th; knight Herbert Gepp (Melb.), 60,
on 28th; Brig.-Gen. Wisdom (former New
Guinea Administrator), 68, Judge White
(N.S.W.), 68, Q’land Labor Min. M. P. Hynes,
51, and author Rev. Father Eris O’Brien (Syd.),
42, on 29th; ex-Senator Needham (now M.L.A.,
W.A.), 63, and F. M. Cutlack (war historian),
51, on 30th.
No Australian has yet become Lord
Mayor of London, but next year the old
city will have one married to an Aus-
tralian. He is Sir Harry Twyford, last
year’s senior sheriff. His wife was Ethel
Honey, of Adelaide (S.A.), where she
was married in 1900. She visited Aus-
tralia three years ago.
Narrowest victory in the Victorian
municipal elections was that of retiring
councillor J. Stephens at Port Fairy. He
got back on the returning officer’s cast-
ing vote after a dead-heat with an oppo-
nent named Unkles.
An Australian firm, W. Watson and
Co., has brought the business of build-
ing heavy deep X-ray cancer-treat-
ment plants to such a stage that the main
Sydney hospitals are locally equipped
with all types of X-ray, and overseas
electrical and radio interests have found
X-Ray Expert.
it worth while to link with the Austra-
lian industry. Howard Gough, one of
the world’s best X-ray manufacturing
technologists, formerly director of the
Victor X-ray Corp., London, and now
with the Gen. Elec. X-ray Corp., of
U.S.A., links Watson’s with the overseas
concerns.


It'S DRAGFREE-
It's FAST and TOUGH
like the KANGARHINO
The ROO is very hard to race,
The RHINO's tough, like his grimace,
Rut KANGARHINO blends the two,
Like DRAG-FREE SHELL, the OIL for you,
Whose SPEED makes engines extra-fast,
Whose TOUGHNESS makes one's money last!
MOTOR
OIL
RECOMMENDATIONS:
For the correct grade for your car, consult the SHELL TABLE OF RECOMMENDATIONS
which are available from every garage. Pocket-charts will be posted free on application.
KANGAROO
RHINOCEROS
/
*»
Starting causes more engine-
wear than all the running.
Shell Motor Oil is Drag-
Free and Tough—Fast flow-
ing to reduce Starting Wear,
and Tough to stand the
heat of steady driving and
to Last Longer.
USE SHELL SPECIALISED LUBRICATION SERVICE
LQII4H


ABORIGINALITIES
BEENLEIGH RUM MINE TINK IT BEST
“Mat’s Mate”: We were scrub fall-
ing in the Vic. mallee, near Cowangie,
and there were plenty bees about. Mat
was so nervous of ’em that jokers could
sneak up behind him and imitate the
buzz, and he’d leap three feet in the air
and be running before he hit the ground.
“If there’s a bee within a mile it’ll come
at me,” was his complaint. He was doz-
ing in his tent one Sunday when the
first ’plane to fly from Adelaide to Mil-
dura hummed over. The camp turned
out to watch—all but Mat, who was
half-smothered under the blankets, hid-
ing from what he thought must be the
biggest swarm of bees this side of Hades.
* * *
“C.V.S.”: Can any Aboliar explain
this phenomenon? The creek flat of
about 10 acres on which I was camped
was surrounded by low tea-tree-clad hills.
Walking near or along the side of the
hills on winter mornings, when the frost
lay thick on the ground, I was often sur-
prised by puffs of warm air of such in-
tensity that I would pause involuntarily
and look for a fire. Though the warmth
may have been only comparative, it felt
like a furnace blast and was always most
noticeable on the coldest mornings.
* * * *
“Eureka”: A trapper I know always
carries a supply of eggs with him in case
any of his dogs picks up a strychnine
bait. The poisoned dog’s mouth is kept
open with a gag and at least half a
dozen fresh eggs are forcibly fed him.
He is then tied up and given only a sip
of water occasionally for the next eight
hours. The trapper swears he has never
lost a dog after this treatment.
* * * *
“Hay”: If a solution of the vanishing-
cod problem is not soon found, Aus-
tralia will be soon handing the last finny
corpse over to the museum taxidermist.
Observers agree that billabongs are the
breeding-places of this splendid fish;
therefore a recent suggestion that such
be declared cod-sanctuaries sounds a good
idea. Action that overlooks the baby
period is useless.
* :!-• * *
“Varanus”: Every so often in the
bush one comes across a neat little pyra-
mid of white bones, clean as a pin. What
put ’em there? It took me many years
to find out, and, having solved the mys-
tery, I afterwards frequently saw the
architects on the job. It is done by
goannas before they go to winter bur-
row. Apparently a tummyful of undi-
gested bones isn’t conducive to undis-
turbed sleep, so just before retiring the
go. arches his neck, heaves a bit, grips
with his toes, and there is the little stack
of bones.
* * * *
“G.G.6”: Cannot agree with “Warri-
gal” (B. 18/8/’37) that dingo puppies
are not born with more intelligence than
domesticated doglings. Was at Noondoo
station in Queensland when a black-
fellow brought in six dingo puppies with
eyes just opened. He was showing them
in the front warden, and put them down
within six feet of a bed thick with dahlia
plants. In less time than it takes to
type it, the pups, only able to crawl on
their fat tummies, had taken shelter
among the plants. They were taken out
and tried half a dozen times, and always
with the same results.
“Upsan Downs”: The finding of
numerous flying-fox wings on banana
plantations in the Byfield (Q.) district,
adjacent to the largest flying-fox camp
in Australia, had us mystified for a time.
The Choom abandoned his theory that
they shed their wings like flying-ants
when we began to find an occasional
head. Finally we discovered that dingoes
were responsible. The big bats always
“take off” heads downwards, and drop
a certain distance before they can rise.
If suddenly disturbed while feasting on
a bunch of the dwarf Cavendish banana
they become easy prey for a smart dog.
* * * *
“Centre”: The best sheep-dog I’ve
known was raised and trained by my
young son and heir. A wall-eyed, mud-
colored, stone-deaf little mongrel, before
nine months old he’d learned to shepherd
chickens and ducklings through a length
of 6in. pipe lying in the yard, herd a
selected chicken into a flowerpot, drive
one up to your feet or bring it undam-
aged in his mouth to your hands. Being
deaf seemed to cause him little trouble ;
he took orders from movements of the
hands and arms. Later his work with
sheep —and calves —was something worth
“Me principles wont let me go on fightini a bloke ’oo Wont apologise fer Wot ’e called me just now.”
watching. He worked always at a walk
or crouch, and never got things stam-
peded or scared. We refused several
offers for him by drovers, one going as
high as ten notes. He was stolen twice,
but came back, the second time after
being away for a month. His end came
while he was crossing the road, after
being signalled to round-up the calves
in the opposite paddock, when a 70-
m.p.h. road-hog rolled him over with a
broken back.
* * *■ *
“Uramao”: There being a famine in
hares, a North Otago (M.L.) coursing
enthusiast took some cats out in a bag to
give his dogs a spin. The first one the bag
disgorged was a fractious feline that saw
the safest place from the yelping hounds
was the huntsman’s shoulders. Leaping
at his mount’s tail, the tabby pawed its
way on to that sanctuary. The horse
bolted, and the wild career back to town
with the feline spitting venom at a pack
of yelping hounds constitutes one of
the bright pages in Oamaru’s coursing
history.
* * * *
“Koombooloomba”: “Sheafstack’s”
suggestion (B. 21/7/’37) for a close
season for barnyard turkeys was carried
into effect 40 years ago by Molong
(N.S.W.) graziers. Flocks ran wild on
the smaller holdings, maintained solely
to keep down grasshoppers. I have
examined the crops of many of their
sacrosanct rivals, plain turkeys, and
always found an obol’s worth of grass-
hopper to a swag of grass and herbage,
Incidentally, does any Aboliar know why
the plain turkey was behind the door
when gizzards were given out? They
are as delicate as a Yank millionaire’s
stomach. The swaggerer of the farmyard
has a gizzard that could digest two
columns of daily cables.
* * * *
“J.0.L.”: Reading the other day of
another bushman having immediately
chopped his finger off after being bitten
by a snake made me wonder how many
of these hasty amputations are necessary.
I recall an Indian forest o cia w o,
bitten on the hnger by a snake, promp Y
blew the finger off with a revolver-shot.
He then shot the snake, and for years
finger and snake were exhibited in a
P reservatlv f- untll a naturalist
identified the serpent as a harmless rat-
sna e * * *
“Scotia”: I’ll back Cowell (S. Aus.) as
the best edible-crab hunting spot in Aus-
tralia. It is possible to stroll along the
causeway with a flare and trailing a
snapper-hook attached to a stick and
catch the beauties by the gross. One
specimen hooked up recently had a
spread of 32in., its hefty claws alone
topping 13in. I’ve hunted lobsters with
flares over a coral beach at Diego Garcia,
in the Chagos Archipelago, but I’ve not
heard of “flaring” crabs in Australia ex-
cept at Cowell.
* * * *
“Marsh”: A drought was on and,
getting a bit pushed for food, a grazier
decided to get rid of a couple of thousand
sheep. Particulars were given to the local
stock-and-station agent and a buyer was
to come out and inspect. Then a flock
of black cockatoos, rare at any time in
the district, arrived in the timber near
the almost dry lagoon a few hundred
yards from the homestead. The dinkum
oil, thought the grazier, and a black boy
was sent post-haste to withdraw the sheep
from sale. It didn’t rain for seven
months, and most of the jumbucks that
were on offer at 15 bob fell by the way-
side. Tell that grazier black cockatoos
are an indication of rain if you like, but
be prepared to fight.
* * * *
“Freewheel”: I’d often heard of the
perfect bike pad camels are supposed
to make because they never drag their
feet, but pug the ground in solid. There-
fore, when I struck a camel pad when
making up from Hergott (Q.), I reckoned
I was in for a lovely time, especially with
the wind behind me. And what a thud
I came! The pad looked smooth enough
on top but it was one continuous succes-
sion of bumps. Apart from following in
the same track, it would seem that camels
put the foot exactly where the fellow in
front has left an impress.
* * * *
“Nor’-west”: Butting into the argu-
ment merely in quest of information, I’d
like to ask “Badak” (B. 4/8/’37) to ex-
plain how the helpless dugong has man-
aged to survive in waters infested with
oversize sharks. Years ago, when W.A.’s
north-west was first exploited, the dugong
flourished in countless numbers in every
bay from Shark to the Cape London-
derry. It was only when the locally-
owned whaling fleet, having captured the
last “right” whale on the coast, was turned
upon them that their numbers diminished,
Thousands of barrels of dugong-oil were
exported overseas, until the animal
was practically exterminated. Many of
the old bulls taken ran to 12 and 14 feet.
Now the breed, harassed only by scarce
niggers and sharks, slowly increases
again. Evidently the dugong has some
way of tricking the shark,
* * * *
« Billy See ”: In “ bone-pointing ”
p S y C ßi c subjects may succumb to auto-
suggestion, but when resistance is
encountere d the medicine-man, with
p rest j ge to j ose makes sure of the job.
Recently a “ po i n ted-at” subject, brought
into the Mt ; Morgans hospital (W.A.),
was found tQ ha J e tWQ f ar g e thorns
through the major veins of his neck —
inserted there by kurditicha men at the
° lders °f the boss medicine-man. Among
n°\v- ex hnct S.A. tribes a long, thin
da S§ er fashioned from the leg-bone ot
f, em was employed. With the
patient spreadeagled and securely held,
* , os , s doctor used to slip this up
under . the ribs to the heart. The wound
w . as . tin y> the bleeding nil so another
victim point the bone,
* * _* *
Groper”: Scrub-felling trom spring-
boards may be thrilling work (B.
4/8/’37), but “topping” as practised in
the W.A. karri country beats it easily.
Take a tree anything up to 200 feet high,
the first 130 or so entirely without a
limb. Starting from the butt, the topper
notches in his springboards as he climbs,
chopping beautifully squared notches into
which the slightly tapered boards, cut
there on the job, fit with joiner-like pre-
cision. They have to, for his life will
depend on them. Slowly he climbs,
notching overhead, driving in a board,
then drawing himself up. At the topping
height—l2o feet in this case—he hauls
up a couple of planks and lashes them
into position for a staging. This is all
good circus work, but the fall is the real
thrill. Under the kick of the departing
top, the denuded trunk bucks like an
outlaw, and if it wasn’t for a safety-belt
and a loop of rope it would be good-bye
topper. The trunk is then dropped into
the fallen top, which breaks the fall, en-
abling karri beams of great length to be
sawn withouf sign of fracture,
* * * *
“F.Y.7” : That American writer on
Austra ii an f auna (B. 18/8/’37) wasn’t so
terr jßi y wrong . If our kangaroos do not
j size {rom a mouse to a man ,
b , IV|; , f . ■
™ have the . j**
Macropus rufus to the tiny m P
mouse. The legless skunks should e
“skinks,” a legless form of lizard, and
the buffalo with horns 10 feet from tip
to tip” is by no means out of the picture,
The Barrier giant clam is certainly able
to “bite an oar in two” if given a chance,
and the tale of the rabbit fences is
merely the truth presented in surrealist
form.
AT TANAMI.
“An aerial expedition which called at Tanami
reported that there were only two miners left on
the field and that it looked about the worst place
in Australia to live in.”
O Tanami, O Tanami,
What of your promised golden yield?
Some thirty years have drifted by
Since first your fame abroad was pealed,
And old hands hasted to the field,
And hopes, as usual, ran high
About the gold-ribbed reefs concealed
At Tanami.
O Tanami, O Tanami,
What did the old prospectors care
That you should be ordained to lie
A thousand miles from anywhere?
For gold, proverbially, is where
It is—and no one can deny
Whole tons might have been waiting there
At Tanami.
O Tanami, O Tanami,
A stillness broods upon the scene
And makes a fellow wonder why
You can’t be what you might have been.
But distant fields are always green.
Someone may have another try
Upon some future day, I ween,
At Tanami.
O Tanami, O Tanami,
All undisturbed the lizards sleep
Amid your sterile scenery,
By caving shaft and mullock-heap.
Save where two diehard diggers keep
Their vigil ’neath the blazing sky
No voices break the silence deep
At Tanami.
N.S.W.
PIPARDS.


“Old-timer”: Murmurin’ Mick was a
cranky old cuss who entertained for
women, especially the younger fry of the
species, an antipathy bordering on
mania. Then the boss’s flapper daughter
came home from school, and on the first
day she went riding failed to turn up by
sundown. There were some wide belts
of scrub west of the station, and soon
all hands were searching it. They sought
her that night and all next day, and
their anxiety was mingled with astonish-
ment at the sight of the Murmurer using
all his renowned bushcraft in the hunt.
He wore two horses out before he found
the lass 23 miles from home, unhorsed
and badly scared. The boss grabbed
Mick’s hand and gulped, “God bless you,
Mick! I’ll never forget you. The man
who found me little girl!” Mick’s lip
curled. “Not too much o’ that,” he
growled. “She ’ad me little red bitch
with ’er.”
* * * *
“Aquila”: “Flight” (B. 18/8/’37) is
wrong about eagles not being able to
lift a young lamb or rabbit. In the breed-
ing season it was a common sight to see
a lamb picked up in flight, and when
there were no lambs the lively kangaroo
rat was a favorite mark. As a youngster
on the Barcoo (Q.) I have examined many
eagle nests, and the tucker for the young-
sters was invariably lamb or kangaroo
rat—there were no rabbits then. In
Scotland, too, the golden eagle, a smaller
bird than ours, is a whale on the moun-
tain hares, which are always to be found
in the nest at breeding time. Of course,
the eagles may have persuaded their prey
to climb to their often inaccessible eyries
before dispatching it.
* * * *
“L-fire Jack”: When you wake up in
the morning and find that your pack-
prads have gone on a walkabout, and
the buzzing of swarming flies kills the
far-distant tinkle of neck bells, shove
your head into a near-by bush. The
fly-buzzing will cease, giving you a
chance to locate the wanderers.
* * *' *
“Mag”: Regarding Australian horse-
manship. The recent Maryborough (Q.)
show not only provided some excellent
high-jumping, but a stunt by Noel
Noakes, of Childers, was worth going a
long way to see. Riding two bare-
backed horses, one foot on each, he put
them over three 3ft. 6in. hurdles. The
first time I’ve heard of the feat being
accomplished.
* * ’ ' * *
“Nobby”: For bullock yokes there’s
no timber to equal leopard-wood. Beef-
wood is good, but it hasn’t the stamina
“Leave the town? That's just what I Want to do, but somebody's pinched
me Rolls-Royce."
and the cut-and-come-again of the other,
Leopard possesses the necessary lightness,
extreme toughness of grain and the twist
in its fibre which prevents splits.
* * * *
“Ribach”: Practically the whole of
Red Hill, Brisbane, is a petrified forest,
At the Ithaca memorial there were (and
probably still are) four short lengths of
petrified tree-trunk, found when the
foundation of the memorial was being
excavated. Each is snapped off straight
across the grain as if the logs had been
sawn before petrifaction took place. A
more striking example is on the Boonah-
Harrisville (Q.) road, where lies a com-
plete petrified ironbark with the roots on
one side, the branches on the other and
the trunk, with its rough bark, traceable
right across the roadway. The most curi-
ous specimen I’ve seen was the jawbone
of a bullock, all petrified except the
enamel of a single tooth. Even the den-
tine of the tooth had turned to stone.
* * * *
“Stralia”: That cockle which fastened
to a marauding mouse (B. 21/7/’37) re-
minds me of a boy who tried to sample
the contents of a mussel by licking it out
with his tongue. The shellfish clamped
itself firmly on to the tongue, and no
amount of persuasion would induce it to
relax its grip, probably because the salt
tears now well and truly flooding it re-
minded it of home. Finally a doctor
had to be called in.
* * * *
“Western”: “Bogaduck” (B. 4/8/’37)
should tell his Eyre Peninsula beekeepers
that a sprinkling of yellow sheep-dip will
settle any ants. And it’s cheap enough.
I’ve been in places where the black
demons were so thick as to come after
the kids in their beds, but I always won.
More, one good doing with dip thins
them out for three years and longer.
* * * *
“Tockilly”: A peculiarity about the
white-ant is that it seldom attacks grow-
ing pine, yet prefers sawn and dressed
pine to anything else. It is the reverse
with some hardwoods, such as stringy-
bark, the white-ant seldom touching it
once it is split, but bringing more down
in the bush than any feller.
* * * *
“Stralia”: The wallaroo —distinguish-
able from his near relatives by the dog-
like tip on the nose —easily holds the
belt for pugilistic treatment of pursuing
dogs. Recently a captive one that I
was teasing with my foot retaliated by
gripping the boot and ripping it to
shreds, sinking the incisors into the sole
till they almost met through the |in.-
thick leather. He was only playing, too.
I hate to think what Towser puts up
with.
* * * *
“Key”: Yes, the kookaburra kills and
eats small snakes, but sometimes the
dead wriggler causes its killer embarrass-
ment. Near Crookwell (N.S.W.) I saw
a jack sitting dejectedly on a fence with
about 18in. of slender snake dangling
from his beak. The next day he was
still in the same position and condition,
obviously due to a desire to swallow
twice his stomach capacity. A kind-
hearted farmer caught him and chopped
off the end of the meal. It bucked him
up tremendously, and 15 minutes later
he was on top of the telegraph pole
with a burst of merriment to acknow-
ledge that the joke had been on him.
“Upsan Downs”: The reason why
trees are never struck by lightning in
tropical jungle is that the electricity is
broken up by the myriads of intertwin-
ing watervines, etc. As with the lamin-
ated core of a transformer, the electricity
goes by thousands of leads to earth, a
"It ain’t safe around these parts f’r a girl without a dawg!"
beneficial electric massage to the jungle
being the result. When lightning strikes
a forest tree, the charge goes to earth
via a single trunk, instantly turning the
sap to steam, which explodes the trunk.
* * $ * *
“Der Jong”: A lot of tosh is talked
about the deadliness of the South African
mamba (B. 18/8/’37). His aggressive
habits make him unpopular, and, as he
runs to size, he secretes a larger volume
of poison than
smaller snakes. As in
the case of many of
the colubrines —our
own tiger, for in-
stance —the venom
is of high toxic con-
tent. This is because
the mamba, like
most of his rela-
tions, has short,
open-grooved fangs
and cannot inject his
venom as deeply as
the long - fanged
vipers. This fact has
to do with his habit
of hanging on and
worrying instead of
striking once as the
vipers d o —t h e
cobras and our own
tiger also have this
habit, and for the
same reason. The
most feared African
snake in writer’s ex-
perience is the puff-
adder, with his inch-
long fangs and lazy
habits.
“0.W.W.”: My
cat sleeps con-
tentedly under
my radio, and
sopranos, con-
traltos, tenors or
crooners can go
full blast with-
out disturbing his dreams in the least.
Should I, however, open my mouth to
join in any popular song, he displays all
signs of distress, and if my warbling
persists he departs at the double. Why?
I once sang in a church choir, and
even after 10 years of swearing at sheep
tykes my vocal efforts should not be un-
bearably raspy.
* * * *
“Koombooloomba”: I’ve just left the
campfire to register a protest against the
use of the term “tropics” for any part of
Australia. After breaking the ice in the
washbasin this morning I had a look
at the latitude on the map—l7.so. In
the tropics, according to maps and school-
books, but in the Arctic according to the
temperature. There is no part of Aus-
tralia where there is no winter and where
there is no change of temperature on the
same day. In the parts of the world
where “tropics” may be used appropri-
ately, there is very little change and no
seasons. In Malaya the shade tempera-
ture has never reached lOOdeg., but I
never ceased sweating from the day I
set foot in Singapore until sailing for
home 12 years after. In Australia a
surveyor is correcting his chainages for
changes of temperature all day long. In
Malaya chains are standardised at 85deg.
and the variation is so slight that no
correction is necessary. If a climate like
that can wear the same brand as this,
where the thermometer thinks nothing of
altering 40 deg. in the same day, then a
horse is a fair cow.
* * * *
“Orwell”: Abos. about the N.S.W.-Q.
border are not as unsophisticated as they
appear. Everyone is familiar with the high
polish native craftsmanship imparts to
wood, and two beautiful examples, a walk-
ing-stick and a pen-handle of ring gidya
which I bought from a station rouseabout,
have up to now been among my cher-
ished possessions. But while chewing
over what I would write about them I
bit the pen-handle, and the veneer came
off in my mouth. Now it and the nicely-
grained stick have joined the collection
of curios formed in my ingenuous youth.
They lie in a trunk beside ancient
Roman coins gathered in Egypt, but
made in Birmingham, and Benares brass-
ware of Japanese manufacture bought in
Colombo.
* * * *
“Wippegong” on divining:
A recent Service Page inquirer who asked
“Has it been definitely proved that water can
be located by divining rod?” was told that
“most tests have given negative results.” In
the Vic. district, formerly called Koo-wee-up
Swamp, where I learnt to sink a straight shaft,
every one of the many wells I worked on pro-
vided evidence for the necessity of divining.
Three farmers who either scoffed or jibbed at
the extra quid charged for “finding the water”
all paid for dry shafts. On every other job, not
only was water obtained, but the flow was
always proportionate to the vigor with which
the rod worked. The rods, both forked and
straight sticks, worked well for my mate. For
me they’d never move, except when a success-
ful diviner held my wrists. Then crossing a
strong “stream” the forked stick twisted in my
hands till the bark broke from the wood. A
diviner could walk from n.-w. to s.-e. or vice
versa (streams thereabouts run n.-e. to s.-w.,
following the flow of the old swamp), and the
forked stick would dip when he stepped on to
the line of a stream and lift as soon as he
passed it. The straight stick lifts when above
water, and drops when it is passed. It is thus a
simple matter to step the width of these streams;
also to follow them along their courses. The
usual wells we sank went down 20ft. to 30ft.,
with boring after that if necessary. Of places
where shafts go down scores of feet, or of the
sub-artesian belts, I know nothing. The fore-
going is a record of experience only.


The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Company, Limited
Castlereagh Street and Martin Place,
SYDNEY.
Founded 1886.
The M.L.C. has money to lend on
first-class securities at lowest current
rates of interest.
APPLICATIONS INVITED.
ASSETS EXCEED £25,000,000
ANNUAL INCOME EXCEEDS
£3,500,000
Arthur Eedy, C.8.E.,
Managing Director.
W. J. Bloomfield. 8.A.. LL.B.,
Joint Managing Director.
ADAMS’ (TATTERSALL’S) HOTEL
259 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 484 GEORGE STREET.
Rooms, 6/- and 8/- per day; Breakfast, Table d’Hote or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE PUBLIC DINING ROOMS.
Bunch from 12 noon (Sunday, 12.45 p.m.), Din. ner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday, 5.45 p.m.).
Tables or Seats may be reserved by ’Phone. M 4601.
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1572.
Head Offices Ocean House, 32 Martin Place, Sydney
Invested Funds exceed £500,000.
All classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
VICTORIAN BRANCH: Temple Court, 422-24 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH: Primary Building, Creek & Adelaide Sts., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. G. BROWN, General Manager.
SEND YOUR
ENQUIRIES FOP
MINING MACHINERY
STAMP BATTERIES
CONCENTRATORS
MAGNETIC SEPARATORS
AMALGAMATING TABLES
WATER FILTERS
EVERLASTING VALVES
ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT
MOTORS AND SWITCHGEAR
GARBAGE DESTRUCTORS
ALL CLASSES OF TOOLS.
GUTHRIDGE Pty. Limited,
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
Sydney.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
National Bank of New Zealand
Net To Re— Re-
March, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
1927.. 282,725 14 p.c. - 280,000 2,725 2,175,769
1928.. 269,803 14 „ „ 280,000 2,165,572
1929.. 269,582 14 „ ~ 280,000 2,155,154
1930.. 259,017 12 „ „ 240.000 19,017 2.174,171
1931.. 194,286 10 „ „ 200,000 2,168,457
Exchange and contingencies, £60,000 .. 2,118,457
1932.-163,836 7 p.c. = 140,000 23,836 2,142,293
Exchange and contingencies, £40,000.. 2,102,293
1933.. 102,448 4 p.c. = 80,000 ) •• „ i,o o 114 741
Written off premises, £lO,OOO j
Exchange and contingencies, £40,000.. 2,074,741
1934.. 121,674 4 p.c. = 80,000 ) 674 2 106 415
Written off premises, £lO,OOO J d1 ’ o ' 4 z,xvo,*io
Exchange and contingencies, £530,000.. 1,576,415
1935.. 118,949 4 p.c. = 80,000 38,949 1,615,364
1936.. 88,594 4 „ „ 80,000 f __ I(il ,c M
Written off premises, £lO,OOO j
1937. • 88,838 4 p.c. 80,000 i ____ 1 019 705
AVritten off premises, £lO,OOO j ’ ’
In point of size the London-controlled
National ranks next after the big B.N.Z.
in the Dominion. Shareholders received
a steady 14 p.c. for the decade to the
close of accounts in 1929 ; owing to
slump and its effects, the rate dropped
to 4 p.c. in 1933, and has re-
mained steady since, despite very sub-
stantial improvement in trading condi-
tions. Still, provided there is no further
encroachment by the Government on
banking business, shareholders’ prospects
are now brighter than they have been
during the last few years, though banking
in the Dominion is definitely less profit-
able than it was before the slump.
The Reserve Bank, which was set up in
1934, has been transformed into a State
bank, the idea being to make it an effec-
tive economic instrument in the execu-
tion of political policy. Having taken
over the trading banks’ gold, paying for
it in paper at the statutory price of the
metal (about 45 p.c. below open market
price), the Reserve Bank became the sole
note-issuing authority in the Dominion,
and from the beginning of August, 1936,
it handled all drafts, etc., against ship-
ments of dairy produce under the
Primary Products Marketing Act.
Through the operation of this Act, the
banks have lost a large part of their ex-
change business —the value of dairy pro-
duce accounted for over 36 p.c. of Maori-
land’s total exports last year. The Re-
serve Bank, however, has agreed to sell
surplus London funds (amount available
after providing for Government require-
ments) to the trading banks.
Under the Mortgagors and Lessees’
Rehabilitation Act, which aims at the re-
duction of moneys secured by mortgage
to the present value of the security, the
maximum rate on first mortgages is
4f p.c.; the State Advances Corp.
lends on mortgage at 4| p.c., while local-
government bodies are not permitted to
pay more than 3 \ p.c. for their loans, and
the Post Office Savings Bank offers 3 p.c.
for deposits up to £5OO. For the trading
banks, who are offering 2\ p.c. for 24-
month deposits and charging 4\ p.c. for
“best” advances, it all means keen com-
petition and narrow profit margins. Also,
taxation and rising costs are taking
more of the attenuated earnings. The
banks are taxed not on actual earnings
but on an assumed income arrived at by
adding their average assets and liabili-
ties in the Dominion together and charg-
ing 30s. p.c. thereon. Hopes are that the
committee set up by the Government
to go into the question of taxation gener-
ally will give the banks some relief in
this direction. Costs are still on the up-
grade, and a lot depends upon the level
at which they flatten out. It was the lift
m export income that enabled the Gov-
ernment to get away with its experiment
shorter hours and higher wages—with-
out serious mishap to local trade or the
currency.
During the 12 months covered by the
latest accounts, there was a marked in-
crease in the value of both exports
and imports, and, with the assistance of
the Government’s public-works policy,
internal trade livened, too. After making
whatever provision was considered neces-
sary for contingencies and sending
£14,000 (same as in previous year) to the
staff pensions fund, the board wrote net
earnings only £244 better than the
previous year’s at 2.4 p.c. on share-
holders’ funds (capital and reserves com-
bined), or 4.4 p.c. on capital alone. The
div. was kept at 4 p.c.
The market prices the £7 10s. shares
paid to £2 10s. at £3. The return at
£3 is 3.3 p.c. on a 4 p.c. div. basis, or
4.1 p.c. on a 5 p.c. distribution. Visibly
the cover is £4 10s. 4d. in net tangibles.
Here are balance-sheet figures:
1934. 1936. 1937.
Paid capital . . £2,000,000 £2,000,000 £2,000,000
Notes .. . . 1,111,225 99,820
Bills •• 1,313,405 1,559,812 1,488,645
Deposits .. .. 15,595,886 13,655,182 13,751,541
Liquid assets . . 12,288,558 7,642,409 6,840,237
Advances, bills, etc. 9,248,246 10,701,475 11,431,238
Premises .. .. 030,128 624,890 621,507
The year’s brisker trading is reflected in
the growth of £729,763 in advances,
which was accompanied by an expansion
of £96,359 in deposits. To meet the dif-
ference, together with a contraction of
£71,167 in bills payable and a payment of
£99,820 to the Reserve Bank in respect
of the note issue, liquids were drawn
upon for £802,172. Still, when the books
closed, liquids were equal to 44.9 p.c.
of the liabilities to the public, advances
amounted to 83.1 p.c. of deposits, and
the bank was holding £4 4s. 4d. of the
public’s money for every pound of its
own. It is a strong position.
Australia Hotel Co. (Sydney)
t Dividenus ■, Nominal
Pref. Re-
June, Profit. 6 p.c. Ordinary. serves.
£ £ £ £
1927 .. 55,138 1980 10 p.c. = 38,917 131,603
1928 . . 51,660 1980 10 „ „ 38,917 142,366
1929 .. 59,312 1980 10 „ „ 38,917 160,781
1930 . . 43,065 1980 9 „ „ 35,025 166,841
1931 . . 1,999 1980 Nil 160,860
Loss.
1932 .. 4,745 1733* Nil 160,382
Profit.
1933 . . 15,789 1650* 24 p.<\ ez 9,729 164,792
6 p.c.
1934 .. 27,855 1980 6 „ „ 23,350 167,317
1935 .. 28,614 1980 6£ „ ~ 25,296 168,655
1936 .. 29,318 1980 6$ „ „ 25,296 170,097
Earmarked for depreciation, £19,650.. 151,047
1937 .. 29,548 1980 7 p.c. = 27,242 151,373
*5 p.c. from Oct. 1, 1931.
Over the 12 months covered by the latest
accounts, the rise in the economic baro-
meter was more pronounced than the
movement in this co.’s net earnings sug-
gests. Still, the high-class trade, for which
the Australia so largely caters was
affected to some extent by diversion of
tourist traffic to England for the Corona-
tion. So, although the latest accounts
were the first to get the full benefit from
the Martin-place extension, including the
new wintergarden, banquet hall, bar and
bevery, and from the extra accommoda-
tion provided by the addition of several
new upper floors, net earnings were
visibly only £220 better at £29,548. That
was after setting aside £10,350 for depre-
ciation and reserving £BOOO (£14,000 in
the previous year) for taxation. Hitherto
no specific allowance has been openly
made for depreciation.
Whether last year’s net earnings were
any better than stated largely depends
upon what amount, if any, was
spent upon renewals, additions, etc., and
charged up to working exes. Premises
have been maintained up to the highest
standard, the board says. The deprecia-
tion reserve now stands at £30,000, made
up of last year’s allowance plus £19,650
previously labelled “machinery renewal
account.” The £29,584 of profit claimed
was sufficient to pay the prefs. their 6
p.c. and show a shade over 7 p.c. on the
£389,169 of ord. capital, compared with
7, 6.8, 6.6 and 3 p.c. back to 1933.
For the 15 years to the close of
accounts in 1929 divs. averaged 9.5 p.c.,
and £229,292 of the £422,169 of share
capital represents bonus scrip handed
out since 1910, which was just after Syd-
ney bought out the English interests at
£2 per share.
In order to finance the Martin-place
and other additions, the co. had raised
£300,000 on mortgage and was leaning
upon sundry creditors for £70,314 at
June 30 last. Last year’s net result was
equal to 5.1 p.c. on shareholders’ funds
(capital and reserves combined), so it is
doubtful whether the mortgage, money
is much, if any, help so far as dividends
are concerned at the moment. Here is
the position as balance-sheet figures show
it:
1928. 1934. 1936. 1937.
Stock.. ..£15,235 £6,617 £11,548 £8,544
Book debts, etc. 35,206* 7,365 6,368 7,133
Cash, etc. .. 1,400 1,400 1,800 1,800
Liquid assets £51,841 £15,382 £19,716 £17,477
Sr } ««.»«> rag
E XC6SS
liabilities. £7,459t £123,262 £334,670 £352,837
Property and
equipment. . 552,524 702,524 917,149 947,937
• * Includes investments. f Liquid surplus.
Last year’s surplus earnings, including the
allowance for depreciation, etc., and a
net addition of £15,928 to the debt, were
invested mainly in freehold (£788,876, up
£19,458), furniture (£79,511, up £5135)
and plant (£79,549, up £6196). Stocks
were down £3004. There was a growth
of £18,167 in the excess of liabilities over
more or less liquids, raising the figure
to £352,837.
To provide for further capital outlay
and reduction of the floating debt, 77,834
new £1 ords. have been issued at par,
one for five, since the close of accounts.
When all the money on this lot is in, paid
capital will be £500,003 in 33,000 prefs.
and 467,003 ords. The pref. div. and 7
p.c. to the ords. will then call for £34,670,
or £5122 more profit than was claimed
last year. At the moment police adminis-
tration of an antiquated liquor law is be-
coming an irritation to hotels like the
Australia.
At 245. the 6 p.c. cum. prefs., covered
by £lB 19s. 7d. in net tangibles, return
5 p.c. The ords. at 265. yield 5.3 p.c. on
a 7 p.c. div. basis. On the same basis
the contribs. (now paid to 10s. each) will
yield 5.3 p.c. when fully paid. Including
the new issue, the net tangible cover is
255. sd. per fully-paid share.
G. J. Coles & Co.
, Dividends N
Pref. To Re-
June, Profit. 8 p.c. Ord. serves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £ £
62,398
1928.. 52.030 2,250 p.c. =: 34,792 14,988 47,410
Net premiums on new shares, £27,426.. 19,984
Reserves.
1929.. 74.996 6,193 124 p.c. = 45,800 23,003 3,019
Premiums on new shares, etc., £23,024.. 26,043
1930. .78,057 12,000 124 p.c. = 49,100 16,957 43,000
1931. .66,944 12,000 10 ~,, 47,690 7,254 50,254
Premiums on new shares, £4500 . . 54,754
1932. .80,535 12,000 10 p.c. = 48,500 20,035 74*789
Premiums on new shares, £44,050 .. 118,839
1933.104,135 12,000 10 p.c. = 56,525 35,610 154.449
Written off, £5OO 153,949
1934.109,777 12,000 10 p.c. = 70,860 26,917 180,866
Premiums on new shares, £22,500 .. 203,366
1935.146,445 12,000 12J p.c. = 89,700 44,745 248,111
Premiums on new shares, £9630 .. 257,741
Bonus scrip issued, £72,360 (£54,000
from reserve against goodwill, not
treated as an asset herein) .. .. 185,381
1936.168,925 12,000 12$ p.c. = 99,856 57,069 242,450
Share premiums, £192,230 .. .. 434,680
1937.240,028 12,000 18f p.c.=171,224 56,804 491,484
Differences of opinion among the direc-
tors and a section of shareholders were
patched up early in the term, record
profits are disclosed, and the big and
efficiently-handled organisation continues
to expand with vigor. G. J. Coles, the
founder of the business, was reappointed
chairman ; two executive directors (M.
B. Moffatt and F. G. Coles) resigned,
and Walter Leitch and J. M. Macfarlane,
representing outside shareholders, were
appointed in their place; and the re-
muneration paid to directors is now
disclosed. At the annual roll-up in
August, 1936, a shareholder said he had
reason to believe that six of the seven
directors received a total of £63,000 in
the 1935 term, and an aggregate of
£57,000 for the following year. The
amount paid in salaries and fees to direc-
tors during the 12 months covered by
the latest accounts was £15,989. Assum-
ing that fees remained unaltered at £4OO
p.a. each, and subject to any additional
payment to the chairman, £13,000-odd
was paid in salaries to executive direc-
tors, the four Coleses, who are mainly
responsible for the success of the busi-
ness.
During the last term, 10 new stores
(five in N.S.W., four in Vic. and one in
S. Aus.) were added to the chain, mak-
ing the total 56. Four of the existing
units were enlarged and remodelled, addi-
tions were made to freeholds in various
centres, and a 35-year lease was taken
of two properties adjoining No. 12 store,
Bourke-street, Melbourne, where new
building operations are expected to com-
mence early in 1938. The spring in the
year’s gross earnings (£1,199,511) was
£140,186. Including provision for taxa-
tion (£44,000, down £4000), exes.
(£976,110) took £71,636 of the increase,
leaving the declared net result £68,549
better at £223,400. Taking £16,628
dropped into the freehold depreciation
reserve (now £90,702) into the reckon-
ing, there was enough to pay the pref.
div. and show 24.9 p.c. on average ord.
capital as against 19.6, 18.7, 13.8, 16.3,
14.1, 11.5 and 16.8 p.c. back to 1930.
Quarterly divs. of 2j, 5,3 f and 1\ p.c.
were paid, making 18J p.c. for the year,
compared with \2\ p.c. for each of the
two preceding terms.
To finance the larger trading and addi-
tions to fixed assets, and provide for
further expansion of the business, 177,650
new £1 ords. were issued, 14,850 to
employees at 60s. each, and the balance
to other shareholders at 40s. each. When
the books closed, most of the share
premiums (£192,230, which was added to
reserves) and new capital was held in
cash (£264,718, up £256,251) :
1028. 1931. 1936. 1937.
Ord. capital. £288,165 £480,000 £800,775 £978,425
Pref. capital 75,000 150,000 150,000 150,000
Overdraft . . 11,679 62,730
Sundry creditors 30,613 37,146* 106,650* 66,608*
Freeholds .. 86,300 331,817* 572,181* 627,162*
Leaseholds .. 25,205 61,214 174,919 ' 200,170
Fittings, etc. 31,857 94,087 251,251 283,640
Stock . . 237,914 224,345 484,645 470,507
Debtors . . 1,356 1,448 3,603 9,673
Cash, etc. .. 1,773 40,489 8,467 264,718
* Not including balance of unpaid purchase monev
on freeholds; 1931-34, £130,000; 1936, £144,130;
1937, £134,000.
The overdraft (£62,730 at the previous
balance) was wiped out, £40,042 was
clipped off the amount coming to trade
creditors, and £10,130 off the unpaid
balance (now £134,000) on freeholds. The
amount spent on freeholds was £44,981,
leaseholds were up £25,251, and £32,389
was added to fittings, etc. Stocks were
down £14,138, despite the opening of
additional stores ; it suggests that only
quick-moving lines are being handled.
As for the current term, everything
points to further expansion of turnover
and earnings. Plans have already been
made to open seven more stores (two in
N.S.W., two in Vic. and one each in S.
Aus., W.A. and Queensland), the
Bourke-street, Melbourne, premises are
to be extended, and a new warehouse is
being erected at Pyrmont (N.S.W.).
Those on the ord. register at the end
of July received a one-for-ten gift issue,
making paid capital £1,226,267 in
150,000 8 p.c. cum. prefs. and 1,076,267
ords. The prefs. at 345. 6d. return 4.6
p.c. The ords. at 965. yield 3.8 p.c. on
an 18| p.c. div. basis, or 4.1 p.c. on a 20
p.c. distribution. On capital as it now
stands, the pref. div. and 20 p.c. to the
ords. would together call for £227,253,
or only £3853 more profit than was
claimed last year. The net tangible cover
is £ll 9s. prefs. and 295. 6d. ords.
Negotiations for a “common basis of
control” with the Woolworth organisa-
tion are still proceeding.
{“Wild Cat” continued on page 24.)


The following is an abridgement of a full Prospectus only , and does not fully comply with the
requirements of Sections 49 and 50 of The Companies Act 1934 of the State of South Australia.
ABRIDGED PROSPECTUS
OF
NORTH BROKEN HILL DEVELOPMENT
NO-LIABILITY.
(A Company proposed to be incorporated in South Australia under The Companies Act, 1934.)
Nominal Capital: £30,000 in 6000 Shares of £5 each.
3,500 Shares are offered for subscription at £5 per share payable on application.
500 Shares are to be issued as fully paid up to £5 per share to the Vendors as
portion of the purchase consideration hereinafter referred to.
2,000 Shares are to be held in reserve and issued as and when the Directors
shall think fit..
6,000
PROPOSED DIRECTORS:
GEORGE ALEXANDER JOHNSTONE MACDONALD, 87 King William Road, Hvde Park Company
Director.
ETHELBERT BENDALL, 26 Currie Street, Adelaide, Accountant.
ALFRED BAKER, Burke S'treet, Tusmore, Company Director.
MARTIN AMBROSE DWYER, 33 Pirie Street, Adelaide Accountant.
GEORGE COX, Rosetta Street, Croydon, Storekeeper.
BANKERS:
English, Scottish and Australian Bank, Limited, King William Street, Adelaide.
SOLICITORS:
Adams and Tucik, Steamship Buildings, Currie Street, Adelaide.
AUDITOR:
Percy W, Begg, Esq., 22 King William Street, Adelaide.
SECRETARY:
J. H. Jepson, A.F.1.A., 22 King William Street, Adelaide.
REGISTERED OFFICE:
Suite 96, Epworth Buildings, 33 Pirie Street, Adelaide.
GENERAL:
The areas which it is proposed to acquire are bounded on two sidles by the properties of North
Broken Hill, Limited, through whiidh passes the known “main lode.” Recent mining operations are
understood to have disclosed an offshoot from the main lode which probably extends through the areas
referred to.
On the south side of the main lode and running parallel to it here there is, according to geological
theories recently propounded, another line of lode which, apparently for want of a better name, has been
called “Little Broken Hill Lode.” From the main lode to the Little Broken Hill Lode, stringers appear to
pass through the areas proposed to be acquired, and it is quite possible that these are in dimensions
equal to or even greater than the main lode.
* s proposed immediately upon the exercise of the option to commence an extensive campaign
of diamond-drilling, and to enable this to be done the proposed directors are making allowance for a
considerable sum of money to be available for working expenses.
There are three old shafts on the properties, leases of which it is proposed to acquire. At present
it is not possible to examine these, owing to water difficulties, but at a small expense it will be possible
to instal an adequate pump to deal with this difficulty, and immediately this has been done the proposed
directors intend to obtain expert reports on what is disclosed.
ALLOTMENT:
The minimum amount which in the opinion of the directors must be raised by the present issue
of shares is £15,000 for the following purposes:—
(a) Cash payable in respect of the purchase of the mining leases hereinbefore
referred to £6,000
(b) Brokerage and commission .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. £ 1,500
(c) Preliminary expenses, including stamp duty, registration fees, legal costs, printing,
stationery and incidentals .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. £350
(d) Repayments of moneys borrowed by the Company in respect of any of the fore-
going matters .. .. .. .. .. .... .. .. .. ..
(e) Working capital .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. £7,150
£15,000
All the above amounts are to be provided out of the proceeds of the present issue.
The Directors may proceed to allotment when 3000 of the shares offered for subscription have been
applied for. Shares will be allotted by the Directors of the Company at their discretion.
The Directors have each applied for ten shares in the capital of the Company. Mr. G. A. J.
Macdonald has applied for 200 shares in the Company.
Copies of the full Prospectus of the Company and forms of application for Shares may be obtained
either from the Secretary, J. H. Jepson, North Broken Hill Development No-Liability, 96 Epworth
Building, Pirie Street, Adelaide (’phone C 4611), or from any recognised member of the Stock Exchange
of Adelaide, ‘Limited.
Applications for shares will be received only on one of the forms of application referred to, and
endorsed upon a full Prospectus, which Prospectus is dated the 19th day of August, 1937, and a copy
of which has been filed with the Registrar of Companies, pursuant to The Companies Act, 1934.
Book of the Month!
THE
INCOME TAX ACTS
1936-37.
Federal and AH States
(except Western Australia)
The recently-passed Federal and State Acts, aiming
at the standardisation of taxation laws, have been
collated, summarised and explained by Mr. H. Rawson
Stevenson in one handy and comprehensive volume.
This volume represents the last word in service to
the taxpayer or professional man who is concerned
in the taxation of income from one or more States, as
the new legislation has made other volumes obsolete.
CLEAR COMPREHENSIVE COMPLETE
Price, £1 /!/-
Order now from the publishers—
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd.,
Box 252188, G.P.0.,
Sydney.
THE UNION BANK'S CENTENARY
The Foundation and Rise of One of Our
Strongest and Greatest Institutions.
The story of the foundation and growth
of The Union Bank of Australia, which
this year celebrates its centenary, is one
full of interest and romance.
From time to time it is of value to
take stock of these institutions of ours,
organisations whose roots are embedded
into the very foundations of the com-
munities they serve, and a centenary
occasion provides a peculiarly appro-
priate opportunity for doing this.
There are various sources that can be
turned to for doing so, but none better
than the Bank’s own records. These
march with the development of Australia
and New Zealand, and contain a story
of human interest which, while being
the Bank’s own history, accurately reflects
the development of the communities it
has Served.
Mr. Philip Oakden, a pioneer of
Launceston, Tasmania (then, of course,
Van Diemen’s Land), was the prime
mover in the foundation of the Bank.
As a director of the Tamar Bank, of
Launceston, which had been faced with
many difficulties and was lacking in
resources, he, in concert with his fellow-
directors, felt some doubts as to its
future. Accordingly, in 1837, he jour-
neyed to London to negotiate for the for-
mation of a large joint-stock Bank to
operate in, and assist in the development
of, the Australian Colonies, and, inciden-
tally, to take over the Tamar Bank. Mr.
Oakden succeeded in obtaining the in-
terest and support of Mr. George Fife
Arigas, who had been instrumental in
the recent establishment of a Company
formed to colonise South Australia—the
famous South Australian Company—and
the Bank of South Australia (absorbed
in later years by the Union Bank). Mr.
Angas, incidentally, also played a large
part in the foundation of New Zealand
as a British colony.
Mr. Angas gave his support, and, as
he himself recorded, they proceeded “to
lay the foundation of this projected Com-
pany on such principles and with such
men as will glorify God and promote
the weal of man, and at the same time
tend to benefit South Australia.” A
further extract from Mr. Angas’s diary
notes of July 13, 1837, succinctly de-
scribes the actual formation of the Bank
and the principles he had in mind for
its conduct:
The Union Bank of Australia is actually
formed, the prospectus is printed, the
Directors appointed, the office taken, the
clerks at work, arid many shares actually
applied for. Every essential principle of
the Company is agreed upon, the proposi-
tion of the Tamar Bank to join us has
been accepted. Thus has this Company
been formed in a couple of weeks, and
the directors, solicitors, secretary and
accountant are now acting. There were
two grand objects I had to gain in getting
up this great Company. First, the pro-
tection of the Bank of the South Aus-
tralian Company from competition. Second,
the appointment of such a body of directors
as would select and appoint pious men
to places of trust at home and abroad
and carry on all their operations on the
principles of justice, integrity and morality;
and especially with a view to the best
interests and moral welfare of colonists.
Actually, the Bank’s prospectus was
not publicly issued until September 1,
1837. The initial capital was £500,000,
a large amount for an Australian Bank
in those days, but the sum was judged
necessary to advance the development of
the young and promising Colonies as
rapidly as possible.
Mr. Oakden returned to Tasmania and
arranged for the Tamar Bank to be dis-
solved on April 30, 1838. The following
day the Union Bank took over their
premises at Launceston and opened its
first Australian Branch.
The first, branch opened l»y the UNION
BANK—LAUNCESTON, 1938.
The history of the Union Bank since
then is story inextricably interwoven
with the economic history and develop-
ment of Australia and New Zealand.
During that period the tides of prosperity
have ebbed and flowed, and through good
and ill alike the Bank has stood stead-
fastly by the communities of its adoption.
Thus, as we trace the course of its
growth, we observe movements hither
and thither, the opening of branches and
agencies at this point and that, the test-
ing of opportunities at places near to the
centres of population and at others re-
mote from them, and all in accordance
with the demands of those who were
developing and building up these great
Southern lands.
After the initial start in Launceston,
we find, soon afterwards, records of
the opening of a branch at Hobart
Town, followed before long by a move
to the mainland, signalised by the estab-
lishment of a branch in Melbourne (then
Port Phillip) on October 8, 1838, when
the business of the Derwent Bank
Agency was taken over.
In 1839 a branch was established in
Sydney. Attention was also paid to New
MR. JAMES SEA.
First manager of Sydney branch of the
Union Bank of Australia from 1839 to
1851.
Zealand at about this date. For some
time the New Zealand Land Company
had been making overtures to the
Union Bank with the object of obtain-
ing financial assistance for the develop-
ment of the settlements in that country.
The upshot was the opening of a branch
at Wellington (then Port Nicholson) in
1840. Thus the Union Bank Was the
first of the existing Banks to commence
business in New Zealand.
In 1850 a branch was opened in Adel-
aide, the Bank having refrained from
previously entering South Australia
owing to the fact that it “stood in most
friendly relations towards the South
Australian Company,” the proprietors of
the Bank of South Australia. It is of
interest to note that the Bank of South
Australia was absorbed by the Union
Bank in 1892.
A movement westwards took place in
1878, when a branch was established in
Perth, and others in Western Australia
followed in quick succession.
In Queensland, too, the Bank appeared
on the scene as a result of calls for its
services, in good time to aid develop-
ment. A branch was opened in Bris-
bane in 1858, since when, as in other
States and New Zealand, there has con-
tinued a policy of branch extension de-
signed to meet new needs as they have
arisen.
The Bank’s records accurately trace
the growth of Australia and New Zealand
for a hundred years, a great period of
development and expansion, with all the
ups and downs natural to its various
phases. They give as true a picture of
the course of economic development as
it is possible to get. That sound foun-
dations were laid is evident from the
development proceeding to-day in almost
every phase of industry. This, taken in
conjunction with the fact that Australia
and New Zealand have achieved finan-
cial stability after the recent years of
depression in advance of most other
countries, augurs well and engenders un-
bounded confidence in the future of
these great countries.
That the Union Bank has grown side
by side with Australia and New Zealand
is indicated from a perusal of its Balance
Sheet. The paid-up capital has grown
over the century from £500,000 to
£4,000,000, and in addition reserves are
no less than £4,850,000, a great record
of steady, uninterrupted progress.
It has always been one of the strong-
est and most stable of our institutions.
Never during its long history has it
failed to pay a dividend. It has come
through every crisis of the past century
unshaken, including the Banking Crisis
of 1893, when it was one of the very few
Banks then operating whose doors re-
mained open. This exemplifies the value
of the prudent policy which has invari-
ably been followed.
Many faithful servants have given the
best years of their lives to the service
of the Bank and the community—and
have passed on. Men come and go, but
it can truly be said that the present staff
is fully maintaining the great principles
on which the Union Bank was founded
and the traditions which it has built up.
Major-General Sir John Davidson,
K.C.M.G., C. 8., D. 5.0., is Chairman of
Directors, Mr. A. W. McNicol is
General Manager for Australia and New
Zealand.
Mr. R. Lobban is Inspector for New
South Wales, and Mr. H. W. Allen is
Acting Manager at Sydney Branch.


LUDOWICI LEATHER BELTING
I»
Gives many years of Trouble-free Service
Ludowici Leather Belting of all types gives long
life and absolute dependability even under the
most difficult operating conditions.
Made from Ludowici tanned and matched first-
grade leather, and with all joints and plys water-
proof cemented, every Ludowici Leather Belt is
guaranteed replacement free against defective
workmanship and material. Made and guaranteed by
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON LTD.
POWER TRANSMISSION ENGINEERS
117 York Street, Sydney
20-26 Queen’s Bridge Street, South Melbourne.
MINERAL DEVELOPMENTS
(FIJI), LTD.
Assayers, Mine Managers and Geologists:
Mining properties reported upon.
Diamond Drilling Contracts Undertaken.
’Phones: 8W5260. 19 O’Connell Street,
84439. SYDNEY.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
V.P.L.: Prospects bright enough; cover, 16s.
7d. per 16s. share... .J.P.D.: Look elsewhere
both cases... .S.S.: Co. has possibilities, but
opposition is strong N.A.D.: Upward move-
ment in costs, coupled with keen competition,
probably; doubtful... .8.C.C.: Write Common-
wealth Sub-Treasury, Commonwealth Bank,
Sydney; price, 7s. 6d 8.W.: Don’t like
immediate prospects F.A.D.: Should be
satisfactory... .E.K.P.: No open market for the
bonds; unlikely to realise face value. Outlook
cloudy D.W.H.: Separate concerns. Sug-
gest holding n.l. co.’s scrip, though additional
funds may be necessary to lift milling capacity.
INVENTORS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * » *
DAVIES & COELISON, Patent Attorneys, 422
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
* * * *
AUSTRALASIAN timberlands and plantation
valuation surveys, milling plants, certification of
shipments. L. MACINTOSH ELLIS, B.Se. (late
Director State Forest Service, New Zealand), Consult-
ing Forest Engineer, 8 Bond Street, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
ORES.—Try 0. T. LEMPRIERE & CO. PTY.,
LTD., Collins House, Melbourne, when selling Ores,
Metals, Scrap, or buying Refined Tin, Antimony,
Solders, Type Metals, Bearing Metals and other
Alloys.— Advt.
* * * *
Engineers can test the quality of metals they buy
or goods they make by using the Hounsfield
“TENS'DMETER,” a portable testing machine—in-
expensive and highly efficient. Full particulars from
William Adams & Company, Ltd., 175 Clarence
Street, Sydney.— Advt.
Public Notice.
CORESTRY BONDS—I pay up to £5 more
r D er bond than other buyers for N.Z. Per-
petual Forests Bonds. —R. F. CORMACK, 440
Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
Fire, Marine and Accident insurances
effected at Lowest Current Rates
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims.
BRANCHES IN ALL STATES.
’Phone (three lines) : 87361.
THOMAS A. MAGNET, Chairman.
129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
R. A. MANZIE, General Manager.
Perpetual Trustee Co. (Sydney)
Net Dividends. Written To Re-
June, Profit. 12i p.c. Off. serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £ £
1927 .. 31,972 21,125 2545 8,302 185,256
1928 .. 33,552 21,875 . 2583 9,094 194,350
1929 .. 39,626 25,000 2000 12,626 206,976
1930 .. 37,911 25,000 2000 10,911 217,887
9 p.c.
1931 .. 25,427 18,000 1000 6,427 224,314
7 p.c.
1932 .. 22,186 14,000 1000 7,186 231,500
1933 .. 20,760 14,000 1000 5,760 237,260
8 p.c.
1934 .. 24,947 16,000 3000 5,947 243,207
1935 .. 25,842 16,000 5000 4,842 248,049
10J p.c.
1936 .. 29,212 21,000 4000 4,212 252,261
Staff ins. reserve taken in, £10,000.. 262,261
10 p.c.
1937 .. 27,021 20,000 5000 2,021 264,282
At the annual meeting last week, the
chairman (T. H. Kelly) mentioned two
difficulties now experienced by trustee-
mortgagees which the Government might
well do something about. He put it this
way:
Trustees are experiencing difficulty in
finding suitable employment for trust funds,
since the incidence of taxation has placed
mortgage interest on a basis that renders it
almost unprofitable in the hands of trus-
tees. A large proportion of the current
lending business, which was usually negoti-
ated by trustee cos., has passed into the
hands of life assurance offices, owing to
the fact that interest in the hands of those
institutions does not bear income tax at
the same rate as it does in the hands of
private individuals. This has practically
reduced investments open to trustees under
the Trustee Act to Government stocks and
deposits with banks, unless the will author-
ises other investments....
The Government, which has announced
its intention of extending the moratorium
for two years from February next, does
not appear to recognise the necessity for
providing machinery whereby the mora-
torium may, should hardship exist in the
case of a trustee-mortgagee, be lifted to
such a degree as would permit the realisa-
tion of funds which have for so long lain
frozen in trust estates. There are bene-
ficiaries who are suffering hardship owing
to the non-payment of legacies which can-
not be met while the moneys of a trust
estate are thus locked up in mortgages.
The co., which is the largest of its
kind in Australia, is a solid concern,
with strong and expanding connections.
How much of the £51,675,485 of trust
business on the books at June 30 was
represented by mortgages is not ascer-
tainable from the published figures.
What is plain is a growing recognition
of the advantages of the corporate com-
pared with the private trustee. The
net growth in the volume of trusts over
the last dozen years exceeds that of the
preceding 39 years. The improvement
for the last term was £1,832,343:
Exes.
Gross Ex- p.c. of
Trusts. Income. penscs. Income.
1911 ..£8,853,862 £27,895 £16,850 60.4
] 921 .. 18,432,862 77,404 55,261 71.4
1928 .. 34,231,040 127,009 96,343 75.9
1929 .. 36,358,047 138,092 104,397 75.6
1930 .. 39,023,614 147,893 78.1
1931 .. 41,152,590 143,665 126'141 83.6
1932 .. 42,364,572 127,070 110,115 86.6
1933 .. 43,910,904 126,230 109,727 86.9
1934 . . 45,812,450 132,468 112,379 84.8
1935 . . 48,115,327 140,427 118,543 84.4
1936 .. 49,843,142 150,994 125,983 83.4
1937 .. 51,675,485 158,379 133,581 84.5
Gross earnings from all sources were
up £7385, but exes, took the whole of
the increase and £213 besides. After
deducting the £5OOO shown as written off
in the introductory table, and including
a net addition of £2223 to reserves, there
was enough to show 11 p.c. on capital,
compared with 12.5, 10.4, 10.9, 9.8, 10.5,
12.2 and 17.9 p.c. back to 1930. The
div., which had been steady at 12£ p.c.
for the dozen years to the close of ac-
counts in 1930, was lifted from 8 p.c.
to 10 p.c.; in the previous term a2\ p.c.
bonus was sent out to commemorate the
co.’s fiftieth anniversary.
When the books closed, reserves were
piled £64,282 higher than the £200,000 of
paid capital, so the trustee section of
the business, growth of which can be ex-
pected to continue, hasn’t got to turn in
much toward the 10 p.c. div. Freehold,
etc., figured at £108,291 ; Government
securities, £207,286 ; mortgages and
other investments, £132,741 ; debtors’
balances, £3391 ; cash, £42,158. The
amount coming to sundry creditors, etc.,
was £17,586 —the etcetera is an unspeci-
fied amount of “credit balances.”
The market, which has always had
a high opinion of the scrip, prices the
£lO shares paid to £2 —the other £8 in-
cludes £5 callable only in the event of
liquidation— at 98s. as against 101 s. a year
ago and 775. two years before that. The
return at 98s. is 4 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div.
basis, with prospects as a holding propo-
sition. The cover is 925. lOd. in net
tangibles.
Southern Kinta Consolidated, Ltd.
Representing an amalgamation of six
companies, this is the largest tin-dredging
co. in the Empire. Originally it was
Penawat Consolidated, formed early in
1934 to combine the undertakings of
Penawat (Malaya) and Malaya Consoli-
dated. Later the same year the Kampar
Malaya, Southern Kampar, Kinta and
Changkat cos. were welded into the
organisation, and the present brassplate
was put out. Of the £874,269 of paid
capital, only £19,250 has been issued for
cash, the balance representing scrip
issued in exchange for properties, etc.
Altogether, the co. owns nine bucket
dredges and a small suction cutter, and
there is a hint in the latest report
that further units may be necessary in
the not-too-distant future. Leases held
under title aggregate 8917 acres of
approx, ilb. wash, 7904 in Malaya and
1013 (unequipped) in Siam. That ex-
cludes the Sungei Bakol and Alor
Kabong areas, where boring has indi-
cated 4000 tons of tin concentrates, to be
taken over in the current term for
£70,000. Present life is something
over 15 years on the basis of existing
quotas. With a cash pile of £456,955
(subject to final div.) at March 31, the
co. is well equipped to take advantage
of the recent lifting of the prospecting
ban with a view to increasing its hold-
ings. Mining lease over 680 acres bored
by a constituent company in 1929 has
already been applied for.
Financial results since formation fol-
low: —•
,—Dividends—
Total Net Per
Mar., Revenue. Outgo. Profit. Share. Amt.
1935*. £247,926 £146,248 £101,678 -/9 £96,287
1936.. 470,206 277,775 192,431 1/- 134,637
1937.. 561,269 354,086 207,183 1/6 198,350
* 141 months.,
Including £6993 of sundry revenue, ore
sales, etc., last term turned in an extra
£91,063. Total outgo —working exes,
and cost of quotas £161,517, depreciation
£64,500, taxation £96,000, overhead and
other charges £32,069 —took £76,311 of
the increase, leaving the amount avail-
able for distribution £14,752 higher at
£207,183. Quarterly distributions aggre-
gated 30 p.c. (Is. 6d. per share), and a
further 6 p.c. has been declared since
the close of accounts. Depreciation is
allowed for at the rate of £l5 per ton of
concentrates produced ; on the basis of
last year’s provision, dredge property and
leases would be written out of the ac-
counts in a dozen years.
The increased profit reflects the greater
yardage handled, despite a fall in the
price of the metal and a slip in the grade
of ground dug:
1934. ; 1935. 1936.
Cubic yds. treated 9,086,000 10,035,400 13,055,000
Recovery t. 0., tons 2,488,5 t 3,243.6 4,200.7
Average per c.y.,
pound . . .. 0;61 0,72 0.65
Working costs, c.y. 2.96 d. 2.97 d. 2.96 d.
Av. metallic tin, ton £223/16/6 £2ll/2/11 £204/15/8
Six dredges were in operation during
the term; costs, which include £lO,OOO
for bucket-band replacement (a quin-
quennial event costing £50,000), showed
little movement. To take advantage of
increased quotas, the Chemor dredge, re-
cently reconstructed and electrified, has
been brought into operation since the
books were ruled off, while the Kampar
and Rasa plants, which have been on a
care-and-maintenance basis, have been
started up on trial runs. Reconstruction
of the Changkat unit has also been
decided upon. This will give the co.
seven thoroughly modern dredges.
As for the current term much better
is in prospect, thanks to the lift in
permissible output and the price of
metallic tin. Southern Kinta’s present
quota is 79 p.c. of assessment (5855
tons t. 0.), or 4625 tons p.a., of which
1313 tons had been recovered from
5,211,000 c.y. at the end of July. Front-
rank tin counters, the co.’s ss. shares
fetch 28s. on ’Change; the price largely
discounts the immediate future.
At balance date dredges were in the
books at £455,897, leases at £338,742,
cash, debtors, etc., at £477,389, stores,
etc., £87,818. Depreciation and renewal
reserves together totalled £183,096, and
tax provision £lOO,OOO ; there was £32,108
coming to outsiders.
Thanks to higher output, richer ground
and a better price for the oxide, Tin
Bentong, one of the oldest of Australian
tin ventures in Malaya, cleared £23,948
(up £6648) for the year to April 30, after
providing £125 for depreciation and writ-
ing £l5O off prospecting exes. Two Is.
divs. were paid, and another of like
amount has gone out since the accounts
closed, raising total distributions to
£202,500. Operating results compare as
follows:
1935. 1936. 1937.
Cubic yards treated .. 364,300 760,100 775,700
Recovery t. 0., tons .. 138 189.7 236.7
Average per c.y., 1b... 0.73 0.57 0.64
All-in costs, c.y. .. 6.33 d. 3.8 d. 3.92 d.
Ore sale price, ton £136/3/6 £142/7/2 £l5l/14/5
Net profit .. .. £8,603 £17,300 £23,948
Dividends —Per share .. 1/- 2/- 2/-
Amount .. £5,000 £lO,OOO £lO,OOO
The present property will be worked out
early in 1939. Thus far the hunt for
new holdings has been unsuccessful, but
permits, to bore have been applied for in
respect of two other areas. No dredging
lands are available in the immediate
vicinity, so that, should a new property
be acquired, a new dredge might also
be necessary. The existing unit is old
and of small capacity. At balance day
the co. held liquids of £41,533 ; outside
indebtedness was practically negligible.
The £1 shares, of which 100,000 are
issued, are priced at 13s. 6d. apiece on
the market.
* * * *
Burma-Malay Tin, an Australian hold-
ing and prospecting concern with interests
in Katu and Renong Consolidated (Siam)
and Briseis Tin (Tas.), has clinched a
deal with Siamese Tin Syndicate, Lon-
don, for the disposal of its Thalang
(Bangrin, Siam) property for £101,500 stg.
Of 1015 acres, the area has been bored
to contain 65,000,000 c.y. of 0.61 b. wash.
Approx, one-quarter of the property be-
longed to Renong Consolidated, which
on a proportionate basis should therefore
receive something like £25,000 stg.
* * * *
Malayan tin interests dislike the quiet
propaganda which is going on in Europe,
and is said to emanate chiefly from Hol-
land, in favor of a new buffer pool, or
its equivalent in another disguise. It is
argued that, since only mines in Malaya
are able to produce their permitted
quotas, they only would be able to con-
tribute to the pool, the chief purpose of
which would be to increase the power
of other interests by extending the influ-
ence they already possess. The Malayan
attitude toward the International Tin
Committee is that it should allow supplies
of tin sufficient for current and emergency
requirements to accumulate through
ordinary channels in the visible supply,
and thereafter maintain supply at a
reasonable figure. London opinion,
which, for the most part, also appears to
be opposed to a new buffer pool, is that
there is not sufficient metal available at
the moment to form a reserve stock, and
that it might be some months before the
present tight position in tin is alleviated.
On August 26 the London spot price of
the metal was £261 per ton as against
an average of approximately £250 for
June and £267 Bs. Bd. for April.
* * * *
North Broken Hill Development is on
the stocks in Adelaide with 6000 £5
shares, of which 3500 are offered ; 500
paids plus £6OOO cash go to the vendor,
and the other 2000 shares are in pickle.
The idea is to take over and prospect, by
diamond drill and otherwise, an area ad-
joining the North Co.’s property at the
Barrier (N.S.W.). Hopes are that a shoot
running parallel to the main lode and
known as the Little Broken Hill lode will
be located.
* * * *
Adelaide-controlled Imperial Gold will
presently have two Sullivan diamond
drills, one capable of penetrating to
2200 ft., at work on its option at Round
Hill, the Barrier (N.S.W.). In the early
days there was a regular township of pros-
pectors here, but they weren’t equipped
with modern drills. The leases cover 400
acres of freehold, the recent purchasers
of which seemed to have missed the bus
so far as mining rights were concerned,
and to have said good-bye to a tidy sum
of money as well.
* * * *
North Kalgurli’s profits continue to
soar, its ore reserves keep on bulging
and its assets go on expanding. Last
year’s receipts were £118,974, and the
net surplus was £75,326. Two ninepenny
divs. absorbed £70,125, leaving £5201 to
carry forward. At the annual meet-
ing in London chairman Whitfield
said the board preferred to look
for higher-grade ore rather than in-
crease the tonnage. Any substantial in-
crease in tonnage would mean (1) lower-
ing the grade, and (2) enlarging the plant
at famine cost, owing to the world short-
age of steel. He added that the mine
was now producing well within its
capacity.
* * * *
Backed by American Smelting and Re-
fining Co. (U.S.A.), the Big Bell, Cue
(W.A.), largest low-grade proposition in
Australia, has commenced crushing in a
small way. About 160 tons a day is being
put through the mill, which has a maxi-
mum capacity of 1000 tons a day, and was
supplied by Ruwolts, Melbourne. General
manager Dale Pitt puts ore reserves at
3,000,000 tons, averaging 3.7 ’weights,
but there are indications of a lot more
pay-ore on the property. Diamond-drill-
ing has proved the lode for 1000 ft., width
80ft. Increased labor and other charges
may lift costs higher than the original
estimate of 14s. a ton, on which basis
mine profit was figured at 11s. 3d. per
ton. To date the co. has spent some
£400,000 on the property, and capital
outlay hasn’t stopped yet.
* * * *
Edjudina Consolidated (W.A.) is short
of funds, and shareholders will shortly
be invited to find more. The co. was
formed in London in June, 1935, to
acquire a big area of country at Edju-
dina, 100 miles north of Kalgoorlie
(W.A.). Shares paid to 2s. were quoted
in London at nearly Is. premium for a
time. Now they are offered at 4^d.
* * * *
Coolgardie Brilliant has exercised its
option over Pomme d’Or, Wiluna (W.A.).
The price was 90,000 f.-p. 4s. shares in the
Brilliant. Plant is being reconditioned,
there is 600 tons of ore on the surface
and preparations are being made to stope
the 180 ft. level from the new inter-
mediary shaft.


JUDGMENT
toS-SECURiry
in investment is paramount, especially when your capital
is small and cannot be easily spread for safety. That is
why you should investigate FIRST AUSTRALIAN UNIT
TRUST CERTIFICATES, They give you a “spread”
over 20 famous companies, prospects of capital appreciation
plus a yield of about 5 % p.a. Sums of approx. £25 and
upwards accepted. Custodian Trustees for investors:
Union Insurance Society of Canton, Ltd.
Action to-day will be wise—and profitable. Write for Booklet No. 1
to the Managers: —•
AUSTRALIAN FIXED TRUSTS PTY., LTD.,
8-14 Bond Street, Sydney.
Box 4028 V.V., G.P.O,
Telephone: 85294.
SMOKE-OH!
“Though it is not a recognised fruitgrowing
district, many fruits grow well about Canberra.”
Plums, particularly.
4 1 4* 4 1 4*
“A doctor says that it is essential for a man
periodically to take a holiday, away from all
his troubles.”
But suppose she is determined to go
with him?
4* '•!* 4* 4*
“Referring to the U.A.P.’s radio elec-
tion campaign, Mr. Lang said: ‘We will fight
them with their own weapons.’ ”
Duel-wave sets.
■4* 4* 4* 4*
“Rev. W. P. Hackett, of Melbourne, suggests
that wealthy people could not do better than
give money for libraries instead of for lost
dogs’ homes.”
Dog-eared books should appeal to their
sympathies.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Premier Ogilvie denies that he is engaging
Jewish refugees for his nationalisation-of-medi-
cine scheme.”
It is understood that all the Jewish
refugees have already been booked up by
the A.B.C.
4* 4* 4* 4*
When it comes to clothes, nudists
claim they are much better off!
4* 4* 4* 4*
“The husband, not the wife, is the head of
the house,” declares a magistrate.
Does he believe in Santa Claus, too?
4* 4* 4* 4*
“We should avoid dear money like hell fire,”
says a noted economist.
The experience of most people is that
no effort is needed to avoid money of any
kind.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“The hooks were on the dress above the
waist.” —Fashion magazine.
And all the eyes were on the figure.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“The new hats have circular pieces cut
from the crowns.”
They’re doomed to failure —what
woman would buy a half-crown hat?
4* 4* 4* 4*
“An educationist says that in the next three
generations Australia will probably produce the
finest race the world has seen.”
They’ll need to be, considering the
muddle we’ll be leaving them to sort out.
4* 4* 4* 4 1
“In preparation for the Federal elections the
U.A.P. is to hold a campaign school.”
A bob-in and the winner spouts.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Menace to Peace.
“A monument is being erected at Dinant,
Belgium, in honor of Antoine Sax, designer
of the, saxophone.” —News item.
That a man should sit down and de-
liberately design an instrument of torture
like the saxophone must amaze and hor-
rify all right-thinking people, but that,
in the present unsettled state of Europe,
plans are afoot to perpetuate his crime
is indeed a sad commentary on the in-
effectiveness of the League of Nations
as an agent of world peace.
Sax made his awful blunder in 1838,
and no doubt bitterly regretted it when
he noted the wave of unrest, culminating
in the Chartist Riots and the Paris Com-
mune, which swept through Europe in
the wake of the saxophone.
As an observer of the international
scene I can only interpret this plan to
erect a monument to Sax as a deliberate
attempt to inflame the populace as a pre-
lude to a war in which one of the most
awful weapons will be the continuous
broadcasting of massed saxophone bands.
A bomb thrown at Serajevo started the
last war. A plug of dynamite under the
Sax monument may yet precipitate the
next if the cynical proposal to erect it is
allowed to proceed.
Angus O’Cohen.
4* 4* 4* 4*
And How!
“Ned Sparks dead-panning his way to new
laugh highs.” —Talkie advt.
The fans soft-footed to their flicker-
rests in Stygiosity. All gloomed as Neta
Barbo hotted her crazy pash awaiting her
high-hatting romance thriller, who was
mitt-juggling with a male-bemusing plati-
num, while the cutey’s tie-up wrath
glared from the side walls and got his
gat unslung for a smoke-up.
The plebs sorrowed in sob-stricken
moments and all was set for nose-wipes
when Ned —“Oh, boy, Ned!” “Li’l ol’
Neddikins.” “Oh, you, Ned!” —cigarred
frontage elevated, fun-strutted into Neta’s
seduction lab., eye-sparkled the home-
buster and Arlissed a pose.
It broke the fans’ scream-dams, and
they galed hilariously while the plat’s
gloom pash dissolved in humor face-
cracks.
Then the dame’s tie-up gatted, the
death-slug found Ed’s high-pedigree
pump, and as the grin-inducer’s ego
souled heavenward fans were wised that
their hero had dead-panned his way to a
new, and final, laugh high.
O. D.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Dugout Interlude.
Impatiently the rebel commander sub-
sided on to a box at the foot of the dug-
out steps. Would relief never come?
Where was the chief spy, whom he had
“What's a good thing for insomnia?"
“Sleep."
sent on a mission fraught with danger?
Curse these dogs of subordinates! It was
always the same. This waiting took all
the fun out of war!
A noise in the dugout corner drew his
attention. It came from a staff officer,
hungrily gnawing a carrot.
“Eating!” growled the commander dis-
gustedly. “Eating—and the enemy upon
us!”
A noise came from overhead.
“The chief spy returns!” he cried,
springing to his feet.
A grimy body hurtled down the dug-
out steps, to fall in a heap in front of
him. Then it sprang to its feet and faced
the commander.
“Hey, Ginger!” gasped the chief spy,
“get fer yer life! Scram! Mrs. Higgins
is coming after the old bedstead we
pinched from her backyard!”
Oke Lerode.
4* 4*
Justice.
“Because three executive officials of the
Soviet food industry sold infected sausages
they have been sentenced to death.”
—News item.
M. Serjeski Przmlovitch stood before
the O.G.P.U. chief giving his report.
“As I entered the Commissariat stores
at Petrogradsky Scrghstlzky was making
sausages. Immediately he saw me his
face blanched, and by the way he reeled
backwards I knew we had cornered him
at last.
“I picked up a sausage and examined
it, and only then did I fully realise the
infamy of Scrghstlzky. Comrade, it was
actually full of meat!”
The O.G.P.U. chief’s face went
deathly pale, and his horny hand trembled
uncontrollably. “Good God! So that’s
why the sawdust industry is lagging.
This is sabotage.”
Przmlovitch drew an unwashed
knuckle across his week’s growth.
“Exactly. Scrghstlzky was sentenced
to death this morning.”
“And shot?”
Przmlovitch’s face twisted in a demo-
niacal grin. “No, comrade. That’s where
the joke comes in. Minced!”
Dougal.
4* 4*
Customs and Inhabitants of Our
Great Outback.
One of the most picturesque figures
in outback life is the horsetailer. Clad
in his cerise jodhpurs, kneeboots, gay
silk shirt with a Lord Byron collar and
brown derby hat, he can be seen in all
seasons galloping through the waving
fields of lush spinifex and scented sword
grass, or in sheer exuberance putting his
horse over a stunted clump of swamp
gums on his way to fulfil his task at
some outlying cattle ranch, shearing
plant, Bathurst burr farm or prospectors’
camp, or any other place where horses
are to be found in large numbers.
The horse’s tail as given it by Nature
has been found to be totally inadequate
to dislodge the outsize and heavyweight
flies found in the Never-Never country,
and so the art of the horsetailer has been
evolved. At first the tail was only
plaited to render it a more compact
swatter, but later a knot, or “bun,” was
added to make it heavier. It was the
brilliant Jackie Howe who hit upon the
idea of putting an old golf ball in the
end of the hirsute appendage. The
result was that the horse had only to
give one flick and the resiliency of the
ball would keep the tail banging from the
port to the starboard side with a fast
pendulum movement for several minutes.
The skilful horsetailer, of course, judges
the length of plaited tail so as to allow
the ball to hit a rib, off which it bounces
with greater velocity than it would off
flesh. Apart from the fear of stopping a
direct hit, the flies find the vibrations
set up by the ball banging against the
ribs so nerve-shattering that they leave
the animals in peace. Experienced horse-
men never walk behind a newly “tailed”
prad, as a swish from the nobbly end,
caught behind the ear, can easily knock
a man out.
Owing to the uncertain rainfall in
many parts of Australia the poor pas-
tures render it essential to limit the
number of sheep which can graze to the
acre. On a very large station of, say,
2000 acres, in country which can only
carry one sheep to the acre, the method
adopted by the sheep “station”-masters
is simple, though it naturally entails
heavy preliminary work.
The “station” is divided evenly into
2000 one-acre paddocks which are all
fenced, the top three rows being of
barbed wire so as to discourage jumping
by the sheep. Access is gained to each
by a five-barred gate, also barbed-wired.
A sheep is placed in each paddock
and allowed to graze at will. As, accord-
ing to the statistics on which this carry-
ing capacity is based, there will just be
sufficient vegetation on the allotted space
to satisfy the appetite of one healthy
sheep, it is obvious that the animal will
suffer none of the attendant diseases of
overeating or malnutrition such as roup,
psittacosis, pink-eye, mange and bog-
spavin. Moreover, with the sheep
limited to one acre in which to roam it
won’t develop tough and fibrous thigh
muscles, and will thus command a better-
price when sent to market. The one
disadvantage in this method of pastur-
age is that it means more work for the
boundary riders, who are compelled to
get off their bikes—in two senses —to
open each of the 2000 gates after inspect-
ing the fences (and carefully collecting
therefrom any wool hanging to the
barbed-wire) and seeing that the sheep
are comfortably rugged down for the
night.
The position becomes more compli-
cated, of course, if a “station” can carry,
say, 1} sheep to the acre. This is the
type of country graziers always seek to
avoid, as the consequent arrangements
are a source of continual irritation. It
being impossible to put \\ sheep in
each acre-paddock, it follows that the
paddocks must be so divided as to take
either (a) one sheep, or ( b ) two sheep.
With these alternatives to consider, and
with the problem of calculating the size
and shape of each paddock, with the
concomitant questions of fencing, the
way the gates must open, etc., a
grazier’s life in such cases is no
happy one. It is a common sight to
see one of these sturdy yeomen, with a
corrugated brow and a stub of pencil to
his mouth, working out on the smooth
paper bark of a coolabah tree a problem
such as (x + lj) (a x b) = ? where jc
is the number of fly-blown sheep, and a
and b something to do with acres.
During the mating season all the sheep
are allowed to gambol together ia a
small yard known as the “home pad-
dock.” To prevent their getting away
(though it is mostly found that they
don’t want to) the boundary bike riders
circle around them in relays, coo-eeing
and yodelling shrilly the while. Should
a sheep attempt to escape it is subjected
to “wigging” ; i.e., the wool behind its
ears (the most sensitive part of a sheep)
is given a determined tug as a reprimand,
and it is sent back to the herd.
Strangely enough, it was the operation
of branding sheep which led to the solv-
ing of a major economic problem. With
heavy-woolled types such as the Shrop-
shire, Berkshire and Worcestershire,
it was found that even the hottest brand-
ing iron could not penetrate through to
the skin. It was therefore necessary to
cut away a small portion of wool by
the left wither, leaving the skin bare to
take the brand. For this purpose used
safety-razor blades are ideal, and graziers
avidly buy up all stocks available.
S. W. K.
Foreign Parts.
When I took ship across the sea '
To travel and improve my mind,
I wav as slim and willowy
As rush that bows before the wind.
But when to these shores l returned
No more / paralleled the reed;
In fact, to my dismay I learned
That travel’s broadening indeed!
Miss Smith.


FOR PUBLIC INFORMATION ONLY—THE ISSUE HAVING BEEN FULLY
SUBSCRIBED.
This Abridged Prospectus is not to be regarded as an invitation to the Public to subscribe for shares.
It does not comply with the requirements of The Companies Act. The applications will be received only
on the footing of the full prospectus issued and dated the 19th day of August, 193/, a copy of which
has been filed with the Registrar of Companies.
ABRIDGED PROSPECTUS
OP ■?'-
SILVER PEAK (BROKEN HILL) LIMITED
(Intended to be incorporated in South Australia under The Companies Act, 1934).
NOMINAL CAPITAL -- - £50,000
In 10,000 Shares of £5 each, of which
2500 have been offered for subscription to be fully paid on application.
910 are to be issued to the Vendors in terms of the Preliminary Agreement.
6590 Shares are held in Reserve.
DIRECTORS:
,1. MACDONALD MOORE. D.Sc., Westlmry Street, Hackney. Consulting Geologist.
.TAMES lIEBBARD. A.I.M;M.. Fisher Street, Fullarton. Mining Engineer.
ALEXANDER WILLIAM HAMMOND. Sixth Avenue, Helmsdale, Company Director.
CECIL ARTHUR EDGAR SULLIVAN, F.C.A. (Aust.), 49 Waymouth Street, Adelaide.
Chartered Accountant.
And one other to be appointed.
BROKERS:
S. C. WARD & CO., Grenfell Street. Adelaide.
BANKERS:
RANK OF AUSTRALASIA, King William Street, Adelaide. ■
SOLICITORS:
ALDERMAN. REID & BRAZEL, Waymouth Street, Adelaide.
JOHN R. EDWARDS, SON & BROWN, Argent Street, Broken Hill.
AUDITORS:
MUECKE, WATSON & CO., Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
SECRETARY AND REGISTERED OFFICE:
S. R. HOSKING, A.F.1.A., A.1.A.5.A., 68 Waymouth Street, Adelaide,
OBJECTS OF THE COMPANY:
The Company will acquire title to and develop Mineral Lease Application 849 (registered
in Broken Hill), which property is known as The Silver Peak Mine.
STATUTORY REQUIREMENTS.
Each of the Directors has subscribed for or agreed to take the shares to satisfy the
qualification.
The minimum subscription on which the Directors may proceed to allotment is -• >OO shares.
Brokerage is 5 per cent, on shares allotted on applications lodged through a member of
a recognised Stock Exchange. An over-riding commission of 2-1 per cent, will be paid to
the Company’s Official Brokers.
ESTABLISHED
1834
THE
Commercial Banking Company
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND £4,300,000 0 0
(Used wholly in the business)
RESERVE CAPITAL . . . . £4,739,012 10 0
DIRECTORS:
JAMES ASHTON (Chairman); EDWARD R. KNOX;
OWEN E. FRIEND; SIR WM. VICARS, C.8.E.;
ORWELL PHILLIPS.
General Manager:
C. DARVALL.
Head Office:
343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
London Office:
18 BIRCHIN LANE, LOMBARD STREET, E.C.3.
London Bankers:
The Bank of England; Westminster Bank, Ltd.;
Barclay’s Bank, Ltd.; National Provincial Bank, Ltd.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout—
New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland,
South Australia.
And at Canberra, Federal Territory.
Agents throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS
TRANSACTED
Business,Rollery,Etc.
Producers and General
Following a stole market around 17s.
for a week or two, activity in the ord.
, . J
shares of Producers and General Finance
Corp., Sydney (B. 25/8/’37), came to life
last week—after wild selling on Thurs-
day morning had crashed the price to
10s. The day’s dealings closed at 11s.
, , U U- U 4- U u . ,
6d., by which time 1300 shares had been
officially traded in. On Friday dealings
opened at 145., sank to I3s. 3d. and
closed at 13s. lid., with a turnover of
1750 shares.
P. and G. issued its balance sheet on
August 17. It was the first set of ac-
counts published since the co. took over
Cranwells’ business (including the P.P.
Bank assets) after that co. had gone out
of the share-selling business in 1935.
C™weU s finished with a paid capital of
£174,994, paid 15 p.c. in its last year,
and showed goodwill at £43,204 and
preliminary exes, at £11,277. Shares in
other cos. were in at £94,072 Common-
wealth bonds £48,429, cash £14,29.4,
sundry debtors £5149. Ordinary Tiabili-
ties totalled £705. The P.P. Bank deal,
then being negotiated, appeared as an
asset of £210,000 and a liability of
£209,339.
In the months that elapsed be-
tween that date and June 30, the P. and
G. issued 62,500 free pref. shares to
Cranwells’ shareholders for goodwill,
paid another £31,235 for that co.’s intan-
gibles, put out 62,500 7 p.c. pref. shares
and some ord. shares, became listed on
Sydney ’Change (opening at around
355. 6d.) and offered another 223,717 ords.
at par, bought some small cash-order
connections outright and the shares in
Bear and Co. (furniture) and Colonial
Finance Co.
Issued capital at June 30 was £672,652,
uncalled capital £77,918, calls unpaid
£32,524, capital paid up £562,210. Apart
from £8460 p. and 1. balance (after pay-
ing a 14 p.c. div. out of earnings dis-
closed at 16.5 p.c. on average ord. capi-
tal) there were no reserves that weren’t
earmarked. The co. owed £98,698.
These funds were represented as to
£108,431 the intangible items good-
will and establishment exes. Furniture
and fittings were in at £13,274. Station-
ery and cash amounted to £1147. Turn-
ing from these non-revenue-producing
items, there was £376,555 (after deduct-
ing “reserves, £64,763”) in secured and
unsecured advances and sundry debtors,
£81,993 in “shares—at cost,” £17,500 in
“unexpired contract rights" and £89,888
■"amounts owing by subsidiary cos.
For a finance concern, lending appar-
ently on moto r-car p.ns. and in the form
G f cas h orders, it is difficult to judge the
revenue-producing possibilities of the
assets as presented in the published ac-
counts. How much was recovered from
P.P. Bank debtors, how much profit was
made from this sourcC) and at how much
the rema ining P.P. assets are taken into
acco unt aren’t disclosed. The specific re-
serve of £64,763 may be partly provision
for unearned interest and bad debts, it
may be partly a book entry in connection
with the P.P., but exactly what it is isn t
clear. Subject' to anything paid in le-
s P ect °f premium or goodwill in the
shares ,n oth * r t c ° s * ne l M ta ? glW f
assets amount to Iss. 6d. per £1 ot ord.
“general meeting will be
he ] d on sept 5 Opportunity might be
taken then to dissect the assets with more
precision? an d to indicate to what extent
the co > s lending business contributed to
] ad y ear ’ s profit, shown at £63,446. Such
action mjght strengthen the market for
shares, or it might not. At least, it
would help t 0 clarify the position,
. ~~~ .
Broken Hill Prop.,’s new issue of one-
for-three at a premium of 10s. a share
will take paid capital up to near the
£7,500,000-mark, so nominal is being
lifted to £15,000,000. The buyer of cxist-
ing shares at 85s. each, cum rights, will
have bought on the basis of 71s. a share
when his new scrip is fully paid up, and
will obtain a yield of about £3 10s. sd. per
cent, on a p.c. div. basis. At the
meeting the chairman reported that the
co.’s customers were buying steel at
prices lower than anywhere else in the
world,
* * * *
Dealings in Briseis Tin (Tas.) shares
have slowed down on Sydney Change
since The Bulletin’s article of 21 /7/’37.
In July 29 tons tin oxide was recovered
at a cost of Is. 6d. a yard, which is in
keeping with prospectus estimates. Re-
coveries were slightly under I.Blb. to the
yard, also approximating prospectus
figures. The co. is at present in some
of the richer gravels. Div. chances were
set back some months by rehabilitation
costs following the flood last year,
August production figures are expected
to be bigger, though much over 45 tons
of tin a month is not aimed at with the
present equipment. Mining profits of
£50,000 a year (subject to overhead, etc.)
were looked for on an output of 493 tons
tin, with the price £250 London, and a
10 years’ life was considered to be cer-
tain. Market capitalisation at Bs. a
share is £240,000.
* * * *
Mt. Morgan shares have been stag-
nant in the markets lately. Last week
sales continued to keep down around the
11s. level. Fluctuating grade of ore
remains one of the market factors, also
the condition of things at the mine which
necessitates the retention of immediate
profits in order to open up the property
more and standardise the grade. The
co. does not separate the production
figures of its sulphide and oxide mills,
hence some confusion as to results from
either plant. The low-grade outfit now
seems to be doing its job better, and in
the last Tour-weekly period just under
24,000 tons went through, as against
27,500 tons in the sulphide section. In
spite of an increase of 4476 tons in the
combined throughput, latest gold pro-
duction is down 4730 z. compared with
the figure of two months ago, and the
overall recovery has fallen from I.BBdwt.
to I.s4dwt. gold per ton. Copper produc-
tion, 166 tons in the latest period, is the
best for some time. At the annual meeting,
usually held in November or December,
shareholders will be expecting a full
report on the operation of the oxide
plant. The outlook by that time should
be brighter all round.
* * * *
Up to Aug. 18 Mt. Lyell had produced
11,977 tons of cathode copper for the
term. Year ends on Sept. 30, so there
will be three more fortnights’ production
to be included, which should bring the
total for 12 months up to about 13,200
tons, compared with 12,707 tons in the
last, term. A bumper profit of around
£500,000 seems assured when the
accounts are published in November.
The metal has been slightly weaker in
London lately, but is still over £62 a ton.
In 1935-36 the average was under £4l.
Shares could be got under 445. last week.
Lyell still looks to be one of the cheapest
base-metal stocks.
* * * *
The ordinary shares of Davies, Coop
and Co., Victorian cotton-spinners and
-weavers, were suggested on this page a
short time back when at about 20s. 6d.
Profits were disclosed last week at 9.8
p.c. on average ord. capital (after paying
the prefs. 6 p.c.), as against slightly over
5 p.c. in the preceding term. The ord.
div. has been lifted from 5 p.c. to 6 p.c.,
and, most encouraging of all, business
of the weaving section is now so brisk
(the co. turns out denims and cotton
tweeds) that it has been decided to double
the plant capacity. Stock values were
worked down £36,870 during the year,
and that is all to the good. At 225. 9d.
now the ords. return 5.4 p.c., allowing for
the div. accrued.
The record profit of Yarra Falls
(£109,466) disclosed last week was equal
to 12.1 p.c. on capital. The div. was
kept at 10 p.c. The year’s earnings
would be enough to pay that rate on
the capital account as it will stand on
Jan. 3, 1938 (£1,000,000), and leave
£9466 for reserves.
H« Jfc H« *
South Australia, the State from which
Broken Hill Prop, gets its iron ore, pro-
duced, the record quantity of 1,887,298
tons in 1936, over 1,000,000 tons of this
being in respect of the last half of the
year. In 1937 the figure should be ex-
ceeded. In 1936 also South Aus. turned
out 107,151 tons of gypsum, the white
powder of which fibrous plaster is prin-
cipally made. This is another top score.
In 1936, in fact, mineral output for the
State was the highest ever. The present
year has started full of promise.
* * * *
Keen demand for North Kalgurli
shares early last week in Melbourne and
Adelaide kept the price simmering inter-
estingly above 20s. 3d. ; there was a slight
weakening later. Particulars from the
accounts received by air-mail from Lon-
don were published here last week. On
London ’Change there were sales at
16s. sd. sterling.
* * He *
Land sales in N. S. Wales during July
were the highest for many years at
£4,692,000. Total for the seven months
of the year was £21,621,000, as against
£19,284,000 for the same period of 1936.
.*** x * .
In Melbourne last week:
G. J. Coles told shareholders in his co. that
if any scheme for amalgamation with Wool-
worths were evolved it would be submitted to
them for approval. The market weakened to
955. 6d.
Australian Cement £1 shares were at 31s.
9d., compared with 255. 6d. for Kandos 16s.
scrip in Sydney.
Melbourne Steam ords. changed hands at
305., returning 4.3 p.c. on a 6% p.c. basis. At
325. 6d. Adelaide Steam gave 4.4 p.c. (7 p.c.
div. basis).
Emperor shares declined, dropping from
around 16s. to 15s. early in the week, and to
14s. 6d. later. Large-scale production was
scheduled for some time this month. Support
for Loloma also tailed off as the week went on.
Valley Worsted declared a final ord. div.
of 3-J p.c., making 1\ p.c. for the year. The
ord. scrip, at 275. on ’Change, is being bought
to return £5 12s. p.c.
Howard Smith lifted its interim ord. div. to
2 p.c.
Myer Ords.
At 365. 6d. last week, ord. shares
in Myer Emporium, Melbourne,
could be bought to show a yield of
£4 12s. per cent, on an p.c. div.
basis. Present weakness in the
shares presents a good opportunity
for buying.


Patents.
DENTAL SPRAYING APPARATUS.
THE proprietors of Commonwealth Patent No.
14652/33 are prepared to negotiate for the sale
of their rights in the above, or for the grant-
ing of a license to make, use and vend the in-
vention within the Commonwealth of Australia.
Particulars obtainable from Griffith, Hassel
and Griffith, Patent Attorneys, Sydney.
Australia's Leading Financial Journal.
SEPTEMBER ISSUE ON SALE NEXT SATURDAY.
Conditions are changing, both generally and for
individual cos. Long-term and short-term investments
involve consideration of different factors. All these
things, together with worth-while stocks, are discussed
in the September issue of “The ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly.”
PRICE 2/- PER COPY, OR £ll2/6 PER ANNUM POSTED.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd., 252 George Street, Sydney, and all States.
NEW ZEALAND CRUISES
*
V
*
%■
m
i
* V
\
Vv*
\ A
* v%'
yS <s* O 6
WELLINGTON
V V J>
OTHER CRUISES TO NEW ZEALAND
CHRISTMAS, "ORFORD"; NEW YEAR, "OTRANTO"; LATE JAN., "ORONSAV
ORIENT STEAM NAVIGATION CO. LTD. INCORPORATED INENGLfiNPj
of PLEASURE and SAFETY
an
i
H
m
I
i
i
m
J
Mk
Barnet Glass
il
Checkskid" Tyres
THE TYRES WITH THE LONGEST, NON-SKID LIFE
m. 89.14.37 Barnet Glass Rubber Co. Ltd., (Incorporated in Victoria)
lnefficient brakes
are as dangerous as
worn-smooth tyres —
check your brake *
every thousand miles.
Minerva Centre, Ltd*.
To buy two blocks of land in King’s
Cross (Sydney), costing £25,000 (Mac-
leay-street) and £10,500 (Orwell-street)
respectively, to build a large and a
smaller theatre thereon, and to go into
the talkie-showing and stage-leasing busi-
ness, Minerva Centre was last week regis-
tered in Sydney by way of raising £50,000
of ord. capital and £25,000 of 7 p.c.
cum. pref. money from the public. The
ords. have been underwritten by Lamp-
lough and Wharton, sharebrokers, and
have been largely applied for, though the
prospectus will not be out for a few
days. The seven signatories to the memo-
randum took 1000 ords. each. First three
directors are D. N. Martin, N. L. Cowper
and J. A. Carpenter.
David N. Martin, for years manager
of the Liberty Theatre, gets 3500 ords. for
options over the land (on which he has
paid £750) and for services rendered,
and he becomes managing director for
five years.
Of the two theatres, the Paradise will
be the larger one, with stage facilities, a
roof-garden cafe and shops. The co.’s
show business will be restricted to pic-
tures ; as regards the stage, cafe, shops,
etc., it will be a matter of letting. The
Minerva Will have stage facilities also,
but more suitable for straight plays than
spectacular musical shows or opera. Cost
of the Paradise building is put at £50,000,
equipment £15,000, land £25,000, total
£90,000. Minerva building is estimated
to run into £25,000, equipment £10,250,
land £10,500, total £45,750. For con-
tingencies £7500 has been set aside, and
£3500 for preliminary exes, and £4OOO
for working capital and advertising.
Grand total of outlay is £150,750, of
which £750 has been dealt with in the
promoter’s consideration. Half the
money is to be raised by mortgage.
Estimated returns from the Paradise
are based on six nightly showings and
one matinee a week —1250 seats, £625 a
week, £32,500 a year. Exes, are put at £5OO
a week, £26,000 a year. Minerva takings
from 1000 seats, six nights and six mati-
nees weekly, are put at £5OO a week,
£26,000 a year. Exes. £4OO a week,
£20,800 a year. Rentals from Paradise
shops, etc., are down at £4524 net p.a.
Interest, rates, insurance, etc., are esti-
mated to run off with £5300, and income
tax £2338, leaving £8586 net. The pros-
pectus calculates that 7 p.c. to the prefs.
and 10 p.c. to the ords. can be paid out
of such earnings, and all intangibles
wiped out in five years.
The proposition has much in its favor.
It is planned to give atmosphere to the
layout of the theatres by leaving the
artistic side to Norman Lindsay and
Rayner Hoff. Bruce Dellit is the archi-
tectural designer. King’s Cross and Potts
Point represent a focal point for a good
deal of Sydney’s social life, besides hav-
ing a large local population. D. N.
Martin has been a very successful show-
man, and on his services a great deal
will depend. Although the co. does not
itself aim at being a stage-show promoter,
much planning has been devoted by Mr.
Martin to proper equipment with stage
facilities so as to attract companies such
as the Marcus Show, now renting the
Theatre Royal. If good flesh-and-blood
productions can be brought to Sydney,
there will be a ready support for them.
N. S. Wales rates of first-mortgage
interest remain fairly steady round an
average of 5 p.c., blisters on city bricks
and mortar carrying about 5| p.c., as
against a little under to a little over 5
p.c. in the case of rural properties. Of
course, rates on particularly elegant secu-
rity drop to below 4\ p.c. in some in-
stances, and rise to above 7 p.c. where
the backing isn’t so elegant. The easier
banking position has helped lately, to-
gether with the recovery in realty values.
So far as Consols are concerned, over
the past month the demand has been
better, prices have hardened and interest
yields have dropped slightly in most
cases: — .
June June July July Aug.
1, 11, 16, 28, 24,
p.c. p.c. p.c. p.c. p.c.
3| p.c., ’49 .. 3.90 3.83 3.80 3.83 3.83
3* p.c., ’51.. 3.78 3.78 3.80 3.79 3.78
4 p.c., ’38.. 3.08 2.77 2.95 3.03 3.26
4 p.c., ’41.. 3.40 3.50 3.59 3.66 3.52
4 p.c., ’44.. 3.59 3,51 3.64 3.74 3.66
4 p.c., ’47 .. 3.71 3.67 3.70 3.79 3.70
4 p.c., ’5O .. 3.78 3.75 3.76 3.82 3.69
4 p.c., ’5l-53 3.82 3.80 3.80 3.85 3.76
4 p.c., ’5l-55 . 3.86 . 3.84 . 3.83 . 3.88 . 3.76
4 p.c., ’5l-57 3.84 3.82 3.83 3.87 3.81
4 p.c., ’5l-59 3.88 3.84 3.85 3.90 3.84
4 p.c., ’5l-61 3.88 3.85 3.86 3.88 3.85
The next loan operation is unofficially
due in November.
H* * * >!«
London investors have been somewhat
fickle in their support for listed stocks
of a speculative nature for some time,
but just recently confidence has returned
as far as attractive new issues are. con-
cerned, especially in the case of county
and corporation loans. Blackpool re-
cently asked for £500,000 carrying 3| p.c.
at 100-j; applications were so heavy
that all under £3OOO were ruled out, and
then only 2 p.c. on the bigger re-
quests was allotted. A Cape Town
issue, 3i p.c. at 98, was also heavily
oversubscribed. A £10,000,000 London
County Council loan, 3| p.c. at 100-L
went to a discount during the uncertainty
of two months ago, but is now.at a
premium.
* # , * *
A sale of Cumberland Paper first prefs.
took place last week at 335. 6d., giving a
yield of about £4 15s. p.c. It looks a
safe return, with possibilities of profit-
participation later on. The ords. have
changed hands at 295., returning £5. 10s.
p.c.
l** * *
Among investment suggestions on this
page from time to time, Yarra Falls ords.
firmed last week, getting back to over
405., after having been down to around
395. 6d. Howard Cultivator (Sydney),
after lifting strongly to 365., lost 6d., but
was still 3s. above the price of a few
weeks back. Gordon and Gotch ords.
were more in demand at improved
prices. Adelaide Steam responded to the
better dividend, Berlei ords. kept over
405., while Mauri Bros, and Thomson
ords. were being bought at the attractive
price of 70s. 6d. B.H.Ps. kept around
85s. Associated Pulp ords. at 21s.
9d. showed a good profit to the buyers
of two months ago. Holeproof ords.
lifted to over 305., and Davies, Coop
ords. were steady around 225. 9d. Castle-
maine Perkins 12s. 6d. shares were ex-
ceptionally well supported at above. 275.
* * * *
In 1936 Australia produced 17,750,000
gallons of wine, of which South Aus-
tralia’s share was 13,023,587 gallons (73.3
p.c.). The vintage is expected to turn
out well, as ripening conditions were
good. Processing of the 1937 crop is
now about finished.
In the year to June 30, 1936, bounty
paid on wine exports was £194,467, of
which £190,921 was met from excise on
Australian-consumed wine. During the
year 3,709,958 gallons was sold overseas,
up 315,000 gallons.
jjc :,c v
Gold was a few pence below £7 an
ounce last week in London, and that’s
as low as it has been since the scare in
April. Base metals were also a trifle
on the weaker side. The continued flight
of capital from France has had as much
to Ho with the nnnrpoiation of sterline as
to aowitn tne appieciation or sterling as
anything. The opportunities tor invest-
ment in London have been a magnet
attracting capital from many Continental
countries, and but for exchange regula-
tions in Germany and Italy the inflow
would be greater.
* * * *
Mr. Casey, the Federal Treasurer,
G / ‘
Australia now bases its. currency almost
entirely on sterling securities held in Lon-
don. It treats its current gold production
as any other commodity, and sells it on
the world s markets.. Australia is beginning
to be criticised both in England and
America for so doing. It is said that Aus-
tralia is getting all the benefit of the high
gold price without any of the inconveni-
• ence. I had many hints in unofficial
quarters, particularly in America, to the
effect that the time had come for Australia
and other countries similarly situated to
begin to acquire gold again as a currency
backing.
# * * ' #
In June, 1936, the average note circu-
lation of the Bank of England was 433.3
millions, gold holding 211.9 millions. In
June, 1937, notes 482.1 millions, gold
324.7 millions. Far from notes being
issued in full (£ for £) against the ac-
quisition of the yellow metal, the per-
centage of metallic backing rose from
49 p.c. to 67 p.c. over the 12 months.


SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
By all accounts, A. E. Cooper gave
£19,000 for Talking and £7OOO for Mala.
His very expensive masses of moving
horsemeat looked dear at £6OOO the pair
when Allunga was gathering them up
in the Warwick Stakes at Warwick Farm.
Cooper’s four-year-olds had been in
front, locked together, for some fur-
longs, Allunga being last most of the
way. He gave them a good start into
the short straight, and beat Talking, who
hung on better than his companion, by
half a neck, Mala being another half-
length away, and the time Imin. 38|sec.
The inevitable excuses were made for
Talking—“needed the race,” “had to do
too much bullocking,” “Heather didn't
use the whip,” and so on —but nothing
could be said in favor of Mala, who had
a 101 b. allowance and was getting 131 b.
from Allunga. The winner, though no
champion, is a good horse, and has justi-
fied the opinion of those who contended
that he would improve with age.
Mala was favorite at 5 to 4 on ;
Allunga was at sixes. The others were
King’s Head, Gay Blonde, Curator and
Publicity. King’s Head ran a useful race.
A.J.C. chairman Colin Stephen bred
Caesar, who is by Silvius-Wingecarribee,
and had the satisfaction of winning the
Hobartville Stakes with him. Caesar was
backed from 5 to 2 to 5 to 4, and, ridden
perfectly by Munro, scored by half a
length from Brazandt. Only One, a
stable-mate of Ajax, owned by J. S. Mc-
Leod and Alan Cooper, ran on well to
get third, and Perimond was a good
fourth. Welcome and Silenus dis-
appointed. The latter got boxed up
early, but made up no ground in the
straight.
In the Farm Novice Bristol (5 to 1)
compensated the followers of Kelso’s
stable for the poor showing of Silenus.
He surprised by jumping away with the
lead and staying there, moving away
from the others at the finish. The Men-
angle-trained Slanchivar ran second;
Gilltown, the favorite, was third. Bristol
is a Derby candidate.
The Campbelltown Handicap saw Gay
Chou effect a prodigious improvement.
He ran wretchedly at Ascot —“couldn’t
manage the going,” it was explained—-
but in a stronger field at the Farm he
led throughout. In the last furlong he
shifted away from the rails, and Moon-
ray flashed through, but just failed to
reach him. The Marne, after pacing it
with Gay Chou, lugged out, but got
third.
Gay Chou was backed from tens to
sevens. The stewards asked questions,
and found that his party had put more
money on him at Ascot. Silver Rose,
the favorite was never in the hunt;
the well-backed Sal Volatile, however,
was “called” at the distance, but died on
her run.
Fireman (5 to 1) and Silver Standard
(5 to 4) could not be separated in the
Spring Handicap. Fireman made all the
running, and hung on gamely. It was
said that Silver Standard’s saddle shifted
six furlongs from home, but Munro did
not seem handicapped in the straight. At
his instance a protest alleging interfer-
ence was lodged; it was quickly and
rightly dismissed. Vaalmore showed her
consistency by getting third, and Old
Rowley was running on at the finish.
Munro had ridden Allunga as well as
Caesar, so it was a good day for him.
The Heroic horse Herarde (8 to 1)
won the Glenlee Handicap after a close
finish with Tuckerbox and Heroic Faith ;
he battled on gamely when tackled by
Tuckerbox, whose appearance suggested
that he could be improved. Irak, the
favorite, moved off slowly and was never
dangerous. Golden Chance was not
sighted early, but was putting in “long
ones” in the straight, winding up fourth.
Gay Chou and Herarde were ridden by
McMenamin, now at the top of the
jockeys’ list.
Warwick Farm notes: In shape and
color Perimond is his sire, Veilmond,
over again. And not a bad colt either....
Bristol galloped like a genuine stayer in
the making. He is by Pantheon-Bairn.
The dam, also trained by the elder
Kelso, was no stayer, though she could
go like the wind for six furlongs ; but
there is staying blood in the family.
Bristol and Perimond have 6st. 131 b. in
the Melbourne Cup.... Caesar is a nice
colt, and an A.J.C. Derby victory for
the A.J.C. chairman’s horse would be
very popular; but beating Brazandt
half a length at level weights was no
great performance. Brazandt has failed
three times in open company, and on
the last occasion was easy meat for
Buzalong, who was giving him 81b.; and
Buzalong was of no use to Mala with
41b. in his favor. Still, Caesar is game,
and may be better suited by the Derby
distance than by seven furlongs The
Campbelltown Handicap was a scramble,
and the form may mislead. Half a
dozen horses could not get galloping
room all the way ; Sal Volatile —backed
from fifteens to sevens —was among
them. The finishing efforts of Prittle
Prattle and Tuckiar were impressive
Fireman was doing a bit better than
Silver Standard at the end of the Spring
Handicap. They meet on the same terms
in the Metrop Herarde is trained by
young Lamond, who had Jacko when
that little Magpie horse won the Don-
caster at 33 to 1- —he was a Bulletin tip.
If Herarde improves as rapidly as Jacko
did under Lamond’s ministrations, he
will have a decided Epsom chance with
7st.
* * * *
In answer to many inquiries, The
Bulletin’s present fancies for the
Epsom and Metrop. are The Chanter and
Mestoravon ; but it wants to see the Sep-
tember racing at Randwick and Rosehill
before it comes to a decision.
* * * *
Young Idea’s clear-cut victory in the
Underwood Stakes at Williamstown in-
dicates that Percy Miller’s stallion will
be one of the spring stars in weight-for-
age events up to a middle distance. The
journey on Saturday was a mile and 55
yards. Young Idea came home so well
that, offhand, one would be inclined
to credit him with stamina ; but past ex-
perience brought disillusionment in that
regard.
His brilliant defeat of Aurie’s Star over
a sprint course at Caulfield on August 7
strongly pointed to Valiant Chief, and
the five-year-old chestnut opened favor-
ite. He eased from “threes” to 7 to 2,
going out in equal demand with Damalis,
with Young Idea at 4 to 1. John Wilkes
commanded more support than Regular
Bachelor. Of the other seven runners
Studio alone was in anything like sub-
stantial commission.
Knowing his mount to be a galloper of
the swallow-catching variety, Skidmore
tried to restrain Studio ; but the half-
way stage had been reached before
Aurie’s Star joined up as pacemaker.
They entered the straight just in advance
of Black Mac (whose form was most im-
pressive) and Valiant Chief, with Turoa
Webster reserving Young Idea for a run
on the rails.
It caused no surprise when Studio
and Aurie’s Star compounded after en-
tering the straight; manifestly speed is
their sole asset. But the abrupt retirement
of Valiant Chief from the firing-line, to
finish a miserable eighth, staggered his
backers. He seemed to pull up sound,
but Breasley kept looking down at the
legs of Archie Crofts’s stallion as if sus-
picious of something having gone wrong.
Stretching out like a champion over
the final couple of furlongs, Young Idea
reached the judge 1i lengths in advance
of Damalis, who beat his three-year-old
rival by a length for second. Damalis
(Thracian-Amarelle) suffered by Andy
Knox having been compelled to take him
round the field at the home turn. This
colt ran away with two juvenile races in
June. He is a Derby and Cup aspirant.
A. T. Creswick, the breeder, burdened by
age and physical infirmity, visited Wil-
liamstown to see him race.
By covering the mile and 55 yards in
lmin. 41isec. Young Idea took half a
second off the race (and course) record
that he established in 1935 when trained
by F. Foulsham. The Williamstown Stakes
has fallen to Holt’s representatives on
eight occasions: he won it with Heroic,
Royal Charter, Highland (twice), Hall
Mark (twice) and now Young Idea twice.
Creswick colors were carried in the
first division of the Three-year-old Han-
dicap by Vocal, another of the progeny
of Thracian. She shaped creditably, but
had no chance against Avenger, who jus-
tified his even-money favoritism by put-
ting the issue beyond doubt as soon as
an opening presented itself at the dis-
tance.
Avenger and Young Idea, both trained
by Holt, belong to Percy Miller, who
bred them. Avenger (Pantheon-Chatter-
box) was sold as a yearling for 850gns.
When the racing team of J. P. Arthur
came under the hammer Miller gave
800gns. to resume possession of Avenger.
There was an element of doubt in Holt’s
mind as to whether seven furlongs would
be far enough for Avenger.
Harry Freedman, who headed the list
of winning trainers in Victoria for the
1936-37 season, won the second division
of the Three-year-old Handicap with HI
Golea (Eastern Monarch-Versatile) and
the Truganina Handicap with Sweet
Memories (Gay Lothario-Sweet Mar-
guerite). Each was solidly supported
by the stable, El Golea going out at
fives in a good betting event, and Sweet
Memories being a 3-to-l favorite.
Eastern Monarch sired an A.J.C.
Metrop. winner in Cragford, who was
far from being an oil painting. As a
matter of fact none of the tribe was
noted for good looks, until El Golea
came on the scene. He is of particu-
larly pleasing build, and ought to go
far this spring. The dam is by Pistol
(son of Carbine) from a sister to St.
Mira, who annexed a Toorak Handicap.
El Golea is in both Cups.
Having won the Maribyrnong Plate,
Sweet Memories must be accounted the
best filly of her age last season. She was
not entered for the Cups, but holds a
Cantala Stakes engagement at the nice
weight of 7st. 61b.
Holt might have landed a treble at
Williamstown if Golden Promise, ac-
cording to his rider, Skidmore, had not
been nearly knocked down at the half-
mile in the August Handicap. Benefited
by recent trials against the watch, Golden
Promise (5 to 1) ended up in better de-
mand than Manolive and El Bruno,
Last-named failed by a neck to overhaul
Spinifex (8 to 1), who led over the last
four furlongs. Turf Boy narrowly beat
Manolive for third money. Golden
Promise, galloping nicely when too late,
was fourth.
The Paisley Hurdle went to a promis-
ing recruit in the Adelaide-owned Gold
Nugget, a 12-to-l pop. Stevenage (5 to 1)
bolted away from his rivals in the
Manor Welter, which was confined to
jumping jockeys. Conandale, who was
a Derby and Cup boom last season but
went wrong in training, drifted from
“threes” to twice those odds. After a
rough passage he finished third in Steven-
age’s race.
* * * *
Gold Rod, who for no outstanding
reason has been made favorite for the
Epsom, fell on the grass at Randwick on
Thursday morning. He had galloped
two furlongs in 24 seconds, and was to
have gone farther when he slipped and
flopped. He is a big horse, and when
big horses tumble anything may happen ;
but the chestnut seemed all right when
examined by the vet.
That other boom horse Talking had
on the Tuesday galloped six furlongs in
lmin. 15isec. at Rosebery, and Cooper,
the owner, who nowadays seems to be
attended by a swarm of reporters wherever
he goes, expressed himself as delighted.
This Page’s private opinion is that three-
year-olds will show this season that Gold
Rod and Talking are far from being
great horses ; though, of course, it may
be wrong.
* * * *
The Victoria Park (Sydney) club has
failed in its application for a perpetual
injunction to restrain commercial radio
stations (it sued the concern which owns
2UW) from broadcasting its meetings. It
was admitted that the defendant com-
pany broadcast information about races
on the club’s course, from an elevated
platform on neighboring land without
paying the club anything, but the Chief
Justice and Justices Dixon and McTier-
nan held that in doing so it broke no law
or building regulation, committed no
nuisance and infringed no copyright. On
the nuisance issue, however, dissenting
judgments were delivered by Justices
Rich and Evatt. The case may go to
the Privy Council.
* * * *
“Tuart”: There is a type of sporting
paper that glorifies big punters and gives
them fancy names and, being evidently
admitted to the confidences of these great
men, records all their dashing trans-
actions. For example, “The Toreador
won a poultice on Slumgully... .At the
cry of 4 to 1 Dumbiedikes, Monte
Cristo rushed in with his head down.
I saw him take four monkeys from hand-
some Jack Flack, 800 to 200 from Joe
Blondin and 700 to 200 from plucky little
Billie McTurk. When Monte Cristo
gets the oil you can depend upon him to
make a killing.” The career of one of
these Ring-breakers was cut short not
long ago, the verdict being “suicide
whilst temporarily insane.” Another,
while still with us, has had to give up the
pursuit of easy money on the racecourse
for more pressing business. In 40 years
of backing horses with silver, I have
known many big punters at second-hand.
For one who has managed to keep going
a dozen have retired —mostly hurt. If
Stevens and co. are really alarmed at
the vogue of betting, they should print
an abstract of the admissions made by
Mr. Rufus Naylor in the witness-box
after his unsuccessful argument with the
A.J.C., and send a copy to every elector.
It would have a greater effect than all
their anti-betting laws and regulations
and special squads of police.
* * * *
“E.D.”: Bookmakers always smile
cheerily when a newspaper proprietor
joins the hopeful army of racehorse-
owners, especially if he is new to the
racing game. Perhaps in emulation of
another director of publications who has
been a patron of racing stables for some
years, an aspiring young Northcliffe has
become possessed of a steed whose chief
claim to celebrity is that it suffered a
tail fracture in youth. The noble animal
has started twice lately and been backed
with engaging optimism. On each occa-
sion it exhibited an annoying inability or
disinclination to leave the post with the
other starters, and finished “down the
course.” Perhaps the damaged rudder
requires further treatment in dry-dock, or
wherever these little troubles are attended
to.
Footbrawl
Saturday’s V.F.L. series decided the
Melbourne “four,” Richmond, two
premiership points ahead of Carlton,
being in fourth place. Geelong is first
on percentages; Melbourne, level with
Geelong in respect of games won, drawn
and lost, is second, and Collingwood
third.
Richmond just made the “four” by
beating Hawthorn, 14-13 to 13-14, after
an exciting last quarter. Collingwood,
19-15, was too strong for St. Kilda,
13-13, and Melbourne, 19-16, easily
downed North Melbourne, 13-13. Carl-
ton, 17-14, beat Footscray, 13-16, and
South Melbourne, 10-16, got home
against Essendon, 11-7. Geelong held
the lead by winning against Fitzroy,
16-13 to 12-9.
* * * *
Against South Canterbury the Spring-
boks put up their best score in M.L.—
43-6. Their South Island performances
have rather staggered the Maorilanders.
* * * *
Western Suburbs, University, Drum-
moyne and Eastern Suburbs are “the
four” in Sydney’s Rugby Union com-
petition. West and Uni. will meet again
next Saturday—Uni. beat West, 17-16,
last Saturday. The winner to go into
a “grand” final: the loser has another
chance against the winner of Drum-
moyne v. East. East played itself into the
semis by accounting for Gordon, 35-14;
Manly went down to North, 6-8 ; Drum-
moyne beat Randwick, 20-8. Uni. s win
over West gave it the club championship.
(Continued on page 30 T
FOR CANTERBURY PARK.
Canterbury Stakes: The Marne ;
next, Theolos.
Flying Handicap: Aureus ; next,
Arabia.
Canterbury Guineas: Perimond ;
next, Bristol.
September Handicap: Tuckerbox
or Old Rowley ; next, Gay Knight.
Ashbury Handicap: Tuckerbox
or Linklet; next, Jubilee Son.
FOR CAULFIELD.
Doona Trial: Avenger or Ros-
trim ; next, Campaspe.
Warriston Handicap: Avenger
or John Wilkes; next, Carloca.
Memsie Stakes: Damalis ; next,
Young Idea or John Wilkes.
Heatherlie Handicap: The
Trump ; next, Diaphane.
Whittier Handicap: Sweet Memo-
ries ; next, Studio.


MENDS
ANYTHING!
THE UNIVERSAL FIXER
An adhesive compound ready for immediate use. No heat—no
soldering—no tools required. Superior to glue, gums, pastes and
cements. For mending and fixing furniture, light fittings, picture
frames, auto parts, trunks, handbags, jewellery, books, radios, toys,
spectacles, sporting goods, kitchenware, steam and water piping, etc.
Available in colourless or aluminium solutions.
0
1/- per tube, capital
cities. Slightly
higher country
centres. Also sold in
Jib., Jib. and lib.
tins.
Tarzan's Grip not only
has a greater variety of
uses in repairing broken
materials than the old
types of solders and
glues, but it also effec-
tively sticks together
many materials of dif-
ferent natures. It is a
necessity where the
joint has to resist mois-
, ture, acids, alkalis and
extreme heat.
I AK 4AN
/'ntv -7/m\ /'/i,tv
POLISHING PAD
A PRODUCT OF TARZAN'S GRIP MANUFACTURING CO., LTD.
'Cleans as it Shines."
Here is a strange new chemical enclosed for your convenience in a long-
wearing polishing pad. It cleans windows, mirrors, sinks and baths so much
easier and polishes any smooth surface bright as new. No rubbing no
scrubbing—no tired muscles.
SHINES—Puts a brilliant
lustre on all higlily-iiolished
metals such as chromium,
nickel, silver and aluminium,
windshields and windows of
©
1/- per pad, capital
cities. Slightly
higher country
centres.
Also cleans all
white shoes and
sandshoes.
POLISHES Without a n
equal for shining silverware,
jewellery and valuable articles
on which you would hesitate
to use ordinary cleaners, as
Tarzan Specd-E-Shyne con-
tains no Injurious chemicals
or abrasive materials.
Convenient and simple cleaning!—just damp a Tarzan Speed-E-
Shyne Polishing Pad, then knead it with the fingers until the
cleansing liquid shows through. Rub the pad over the surface to
be cleaned. Before the preparation has time to dry, rub it off
with a clean, soft cloth.
Under normal conditions of use a Tarzan Speed-E-Shyne Polish-
ing Pad will last about three months.
INTERSTATE
Queensland.
Crouch, Connah and Gordon Pty., Ltd.,
19-25 Makerston Street, Brisbane.
Victoria.
Messrs. T. W. Heath Pty., Ltd.,
Commerce House, Flinders Street,
Melbourne C.l.
Obtainable at Grocers, Garages, Hardware
Stores and Leading Emporiums Everywhere.
Products of
TARZAN’S GRIP Mfg. Co. Ltd
’Phone: J 5440
449-453 Willoughby Rd., Willoughby, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
South Australia.
Messrs. Ewer Auld and Co., Ltd.,
99a Pirie Street, Adelaide.
DISTRIBUTORS
Western Australia.
Raphaels, Ltd.,
891 Hay Street, Perth.
Tasmania.
F. W. Heritage and Co., Ltd.,
Launceston and Hobart.
pnONOSIOd-NON]
DURALASTIC
ZINC PAINT
Non-poisonous Made in 26 Durable Colors .
This household paint is manufactured by
modern methods, finely ground in powerful mills to
perfect smoothness, giving maximum covering power and
an evenness of color —flowing freely from the brush, it is
a pleasure to work with.
NO BETTER fAINT
IS MADE AT
THIS PRICE
Sold by all Paint Dealers in
City and Suburbs.
Queensland:
Crouch, Connah & Gordon Pty.,
Ltd., Brisbane.
A genuine Zinc Paint made with Pure
Linseed Oil and Specially-tested Pigments,
suitable for interior or exterior use.
Harbutt
Paint
Pty., Ltd.
18'-
PER GALLON
Godfrey and O’Riordan Streets,
Alexandria, Sydney.
Western Australia:
J. H. Wilberforce & Co., Pertli.


"silver edge'*'
BRAKE LINING
TRADE MARK, (f REGISTERED. THE RAYBESTOS CO. *
SAVE MONEY/
There is never any true economy in cheap articles;
particularly does this apply to your motor vehicle’s brakes.
Your safety and the safety of pedestrians depend upon the
reliability of your brakes.
For over twenty years “RAYBESTOS” Brake Linings have main-
tained a name for quality, building up a reputation for consistency of
product unrivalled by any other firm. It will prove cheaper in the long run
if you ask for your brakes to be relined with “RAYBESTOS.”
RAYBESTOS-BELACO, LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Factory Rep.: JOHN ARNOLD, G.P.O. Box 71, Melbourne, Vic.
M. and Rafferty
Postponed because of rain, the Louis-
Farr fight was, by Australian time, about
to take place just when The Bulletin
was going to press. Weighed in New
York on Friday, Farr went 14st. 111 b.,
Louis 14st. 21b., and the coon was a
6-to-l-on favorite. No American re-
porter gave the Welshman a chance;
Louis, it was agreed, would whip him
with a left hook. Still, other things being
equal, a man with a good straight left,
such as Farr is credited with having,
should have no fear of a man with a left
hook. When the late Bob Turner met
Jack Blackmore in Sydney, Australians
saw the straight left beat the left hook
pointless, though Turner was much the
lighter lad and Blackmore had been
knocking them all over.
* * * *
There were a couple of likely-looking
youngsters among the title-winners in the
N. amateur boxing championships.
Best of the batch was a 16-year-old fly-
weight, Wilson, who exhibited a powder-
laden left and a happy knack of dodging
trouble. In the final, he forced his oppo-
nent to retire early in the second round.
And J. Mace is pretty good, although
unlikely to become as famous as his
namesake. Mace took the featherweight
title in 1935, but was out last year. The
Stadium crowd want him to change over
to the money—Bennell, the best of the
lilywhite lightweights, did so last year—
but Mace prefers to go to Hobart for the
Australian tourney and, if he gets over
that hurdle, have a crack at the Empire
Games here next year. Then, he says,
he’ll talk turkey.
The wrestlers weren’t so good. Scarfe
was supreme in the light-heavyweight
division again, and was never troubled.
Knight, the Empire heavyweight title-
holder, didn’t impress, though he won on
points.
Footbrawl
“Prahran”: Yes, that V.F.A. recom-
mendation that the field umpire be given
authority to send offenders off the field
(B. 24/7/’37) is a revolutionary step in
Australian football, though other codes
have followed the practice for years. The
Melburnians should note, however, that
even this salutary practice is useless un-
less referees enforce it strictly. In Sydney
during the past few seasons referees have
shown reluctance to enforce the rule,
with the result that dirty play is as rife
in Rugby as in Rules.
* * * $
“Sturt”: A large section of Adelaide
listeners is rampant against the A.B.C.
for having switched them off just at the
exciting stage of the Vic. v. S.A. football
match in Perth to hear a lecture on
child-psychology. It is realised that Syd-
ney would not recognise any supreme
importance in a Wednesday game under
the Australian code ; but such phrases
as “scant consideration,” “out of touch
with the public” and “even more unpopu-
lar than before” were freely used at the
next S.A. League meeting.
* * *
The ’Boks continued with their imita-
tion of a steamroller in M.L., downing
West Coast by 31-6 —7 tries and 5 goals
(by Turner) to a try and a penalty goal.
The West Coast forwards are said to
have held their own with the visitors,
but were outclassed in the backs.
* * * *
“Tenakoe”: The second Test between
the ’Boks and All-Blacks on Saturday at
Christchurch promises to beat the Wel-
lington affair for excitement. When the
booking office for reserved seats opened
on August 25 queues had been waiting all
night. The M.L. side is to go into train-
ing quarters near Christchurch a week
before the match. The British unions
object to this practice ; and in Sydney,
manager Day, of the ’Boks, bucked when
it was suggested the Australians might
try a practice mobilisation of the kind:
“It reeks of professionalism; we would
never think of doing that in South Africa.”
If the cables can be trusted, the Afri-
kanders assembled their first Test team
against the Wallabies in this way at least.
Also, players were brought from all over
the Union to take part in the long series
of trials before this present team was
selected. Of course they may have lived
separately and paid their own expenses
while waiting for the games, or some of
the Boer contingent may have just
brought along coffee and biltong and
camped on the veld outside Cape Town
and other places during the trials.
* * * *
“Hotham”: Westralian Rugby Union
players gave Victoria a good go in Mel-
bourne, going down 37-15 after lead-
ing 4-3 at half-time. Considering that
Victorian Rugby is little inferior to that
of N.S.W. and Queensland, this is an
excellent showing. Westralians have
taken keenly to the game, and if they
were given more encouragement by the
people running the code in the East
would soon develop it, as Victoria has
done. The ’Gropers did not go back
empty-handed, having collected the scalp
of South Australia —beaten 21-6 —on
their way to Melbourne.
* * * *
“Gate”: N.S.W. Rugby League is con-
sidering a scheme for an “international”
“If he makes this it'll be the first time he's broken a hundred and fifty."
tournament in Sydney next year in which
teams from Queensland, N.S.W., M.L.
and France are to take part. The idea
emanates from the secretary, who is
noted for optimism, and if it is success-
ful other tourneys, to include “America
and Wales,” will follow. The League
code is not played in Wales and is un-
known in America, but that is a detail.
Hs * * *
“Gate”: According to Frank Burge,
who saw the Australian League matches
in Auckland, the tourists were beaten on
their merits, the M.L. players adopting
the scrum and spoiling tactics of the
Englishmen when here last and never
giving the opposition a chance to move.
The Australian forwards helped by
trying open play instead of going in for
honest work in scrums and rucks. The
ex-international prophesies a bad time for
the Australians in the North of England
unless methods are changed.
Nineteenth Hole
“Susie Swattit”: The Australian
women’s golf team to play the Maori-
landers for the Tasman Cup is Mrs.
Sloan Morpeth, her sister, Miss Shirley
Tolhurst, Miss Betty Kernot and Miss
Cheney. Miss Ebert, of N.S.W., is emer-
gency. The chosen four are Victorians,
and, considering the clean sweep the Vic-
torian women have made of the Aus-
tralian championships, this is not sur-
prising. Miss Kernot is the continent’s
new champion; in the final she defeated
Miss Cheney 6 and 5. Sturdily built and
a powerful driver, she could beat golfers
of the other sex who think no end of
themselves.
The Tasman Cup is played for alter-
nately in Australia and Maoriland, no
matter which side is the holder. Last
year there was a keen tussle for the pot
at Adelaide, Australia winning by Si-
matches to 2}.
* * * *
Victoria holds its tenth annual A.I.F.
golf tourney on September 30. Any
amateur or professional is eligible who
served with the A.I.F. or any of the
Imperial or Dominion forces, navy,
army or air, in the war.
* * * *
“Woogaroo”: The Queensland country
championship, played for in Brisbane,
was won by C. V. Daly from N. Blades,
who was runner-up last year. Daly hails
from the cow country of Laidley, where
golfers are not so inconvenienced by
sheep (B. 25/8/’37), though no doubt
cows are just as given to irresponsible be-
havior. The country has scored again
by the selection of J. R. Warner as a
member of the Queensland team for the
Australian championships in Sydney.
Warner is a young player from Cairns,
where crocodiles used to roam the mid-
night streets.
* * * *
“Huon”: Playing in the southern Tas-
manian golf championship, which he
won, Len Nettlefold brought off some-
thing out of the common. A shot into
the rough landed his ball in a jam-tin,
where it defied all-comers. Most players
would have yielded the penalty for “un-
playable.” Nettlefold took his courage
and a niblick in both hands and smote
the tin for all he was worth. Tin and
ball travelled in company for some dis-
tance when the tin fell to earth, “I know
not where,” as the poet says; the ball
went on to a nice lie on the fairway.
Wild tractors will not drag the name of
the jam-makers out of me, but some ad-
vertising fiend ought to find a splendid
opening in the happening.
* * * *
“Marino”: Legh Winser scored his
eighth victory in the South Australian
amateur golf championship, beating the
titleholder, Ross Sawers, 5 and 4. As long
ago as 1921 Winser took the State and
Australian amateur titles. Fergus Mc-
Mahon, who is giving the Australian
meeting in Sydney a miss this time,
downed Rufus Stewart for the profes-
sional championship, also by 5 and 4
his fifth win.
Racquet and Bawf '
“Rev. Knucklebone”: The German
tennis-players may cut out their visit to
Japan and thus reach Australia earlier
than was arranged. The Japanese invi-
tation to Hopman and Schwartz has been
cancelled, with profound apologies.
* * * *
“Centre Court”: The American
girls won the Wightman Cup again, beat-
ing the Jane Bulls by six matches to one.
Save for Dorothy Round the team was
the best available, and the result justi-
fied the Australian L.T.A. action in re-
fusing a second string for this country.
The only British win was in the doubles,
Misses Stammers and James beating
Misses Jacobs and Bundy.
* * * *
“Rev. Knucklebone”: Lino, operators
and radio announcers will be relieved to
hear that Mile. Jedrzejowska has been
forbidden to visit Australia by the Polish
tennis heads; Mile. J-etc., like other
tennis amateurs, is employed by a firm
supplying tennis goods. The firm is well
established in Australia, and it is hoped
that its influence may yet soften the
hearts of the objectors.
* * * * i
“Top Spin”: Adrian Quist, apparently
a well man again after his spin of bad
health abroad, is back in his native land.
Probed as to turning professional, he
played the politicians’ game of saying he
had nothing to say, though it is known
offers have been made to him. Quist
welcomes the American win in the Davis
Cup as solving one of Australia’s prob-
lems. To recovei the Cup or take a
hiding all that is necessary is to make
the short journey to the United States,
with a consequent saving of time and
energy. Outside Budge he does not think
the U.S. team great shakes, and says it
was as nearly beaten by Germany as
may be.
Miscellaneous
“The Gaffer”: Alleged that one John-
son, an American negro runner, has
broken the world’s record for the 100
metres by clocking 10 l-ssec. The time is
two seconds better than the world’s
figures held by four men —three of them
coons. It seems a bit too good to be true.
Probably a downhill course or a follow-
ing wind had something to do with the
performance.
**' * *
“Spinnaker”: Undeterred by two
failures, T. O. Sopwith, who as a yachts-
man seems a slendid designer of aero-
planes, says he will have a third shy at
the America’s Cup—probably in three
years’ time. He admits that his two tries
have cost him a cool half-million to
date, but reckons he has some way to
go before equalling the record of Lipton,
who did in a million in his five attempts
to down the Yankees on their own duck-
pond.
* * * *
“Shinty”: Though Australia lost in
the only Test —this country has yet to
win an inter-Dominion fixture —the
Maoriland hockey team did not return
home unbeaten. Twenty-two matches
were played ; 18 were won, three lost and
one drawn.
* * * *
Bruce’s spider could give no points to
W. Longworth, who has won the N.S.W.
amateur billiards championship after 25
years of trying for it. His opponent in
the final was Hans Robertson, who was
beaten 1801 to 1654. Longworth was an
Olympic swimmer and is the owner of


m
i
S':
International 3 to 31-
ton Model D-40 with
special panel-stake
body.
Beautiful new Utilities are available in the
new International line.
Any type of dump body can be mounted on
the new International chassis.
One of the
new Internationals with livestock body.
ķ
has the spotlight in the new International Trucks. Style
and character are what the public see when your trucks are on the
road; but you know that the many improvements built into these
trucks are even more important. Improvements that will show
throughout the truck’s long life, and be even more evident on the
books of your business.
Style in a truck important as it is today is only one side of
the story. Clothes may make the man, but appearance alone
cannot make the working truck. In the new Internationals you
find the stamina, value, and character beneath the surface. These
are the most efficient trucks available today.
You can accept these beautiful trucks a completely new line ,
ranging in sizes from Half-Ton to powerful Six-Wheelers either
on faith, based on International Harvester’s 30-year success with
trucks, or on a careful study of their modern engineering. Or
on both.
Come in and examine these trucks in our showrooms. Or we’ll
be glad to send you catalogues covering the models you require,
describing in full detail the construction that makes these trucks
every bit as good as they look.
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER COMPANY
OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
(INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA!
BRISBANE SYDNEY MELBOURNE ADELAIDE PERTH
ROBT. NETTLEFOLD PTY. LTD. HOBART, AGENTS FOR TASMANIA
INTERNATIONAL TRUCKS
Young Crusader. Robertson afterwards
took the snooker title.
* * * *
“Blue Chalk”: Clark McConachy has
challenged his old sparring partner,
Walter Lindrum, to a series of matches
for the world’s championship which is
held by Walter. The Maorilander sug-
gests three matches in Sydney and Mel-
bourne, each to be over a fortnight, with
24 sessions of If hours. Lindrum, how-
ever, is not having any this year at least,
being booked up to tour Tassie as well
as Victoria and N.S.W. He is willing
to play one fortnight’s match with
McConachy early in 1938, and is expect-
ing several of England’s best to take part
after that in a general scramble for the
title, when McConachy will also have his
chance of lifting it.
* i » o* a t * •
Glenelg : South Australia is starting
early working up the Gnmmett-Richard-
son testimonial fund. Ten thousand
photographs of the heroes at a bob a
nob are to go on the market, and sub-
scribers of a guinea or more will be
decorated with a special button. The
wind-up will be a match at Adelaide
Oval from November 26-30 between
selected sides which is to act as a trial
match for the selection of the Australian
Eleven. South Australian railways will
run cheap excursions from all over the
country to Adelaide during the match
we ek.
* * * *
“Five Ways”: One item in the Queens-
land C.A. balance sheet called for in-
quiry at the annual meeting—a payment
of £9l os. 6d. for police protection at
the Test match with Allen’s team. The
chairman explained that, while the bill
was always a fair-sized one where large
crowds were in question, this time it had
been swelled by the provision of an
armed guard of slops who patrolled the
pitch at night. There has never been a
case °f deliberate tampering with a Test
pitch in Australia,
* * * *
“Aigburth”: The difference between
international and county cricket form is
seen in the cabled news that Nichols, of
Essex, is the first English player this
season to make 1000 runs and get 100
wickets. . Though he has done this six
times, Nichols has never been thought
much of by Test selectors. In his soli-
tary Test in England he scored seven
runs and took two wickets—a better
start than many who have been per-
severed with could manage.
«i * t * . * , * ~
Aigburth : Patsy Hendren formally
rom l 3l ® cricket with the last
Middlesex match m August. Hendren’s
omission from Allens team surprised
Australians, and his fearless batting
might have changed the fortunes of the
tour. In English cricket he topped 3000
three times, and 2000 a dozen times, and
he was a great field. To the end of last
season Hendren scored 165 centuries—
three in Tests—in first-class cricket, and
with Woolley he was second only to
Hobbs in the grand total of runs scored
in county and international cricket.
. * * * *
“Aigburth”: Robins, the Middlesex
skipper, has revived an old custom by
challenging Yorkshire to a four-days
match. Sellers, of Yorkshire, has
clinched, and the match will be for £lO
a man. Cricket in Regency and early
Victorian days was practically confined
to this sort of thing. Even in the much-
boosted “village-green” cricket there was
always a barrel of beer or cider hanging
on the issue. The champion matchmaker
of those days was that reverend and aris-
tocratic gun Lord Frederick Beauclerk,
first president of the Marylebone C.C.
Some of the ramps and ring-ins recorded
to the credit of his lordship would stand
a s models of their kind to the most ac-
complished “heads” of to-day.
* * * *
“Tenth Slip”: Competition for the jobs
of manager and treasurer of the next
Australian XI promises to be keen,
Queensland has nominated Roger Harti-
gan for manager. Other candidates are
Sydney Smith (N.S.W.) and W. H. Jeanes,
secretary of the Board of Control. Board
members are strongly in favor of
appointing Jeanes, reckoning that the ex-
perience of a tour in England would be a
great help to him in his job of secretary,
Indeed, for this reason, it is a good bet
that if the South Australian doesn’t go
as manager he will as treasurer.


SHADOW
SHOWS.
“King Solomon’s Mines.”
ALAN QUATERMAIN,
Sir Cedric Hardwicke
UMBOPA Paul Robeson
SIR HENRY CURTIS .... John Loder
CAPTAIN GOOD Roland ) >ung
FILM STAR Anna Lee
The film star is the Gaumont-British
contribution to Rider Haggard’s romance.
She has a stagey Irish brogue and a
stagey Irish father, and her eyebrows
are plucked, her eyelashes mascared and
her rosebud mouth heavily enamelled
even when the expedition, which was fool
enough to lug her along with it, is dying
of thirst. In the excitement of putting
this dash of Edgariceburroughsish glamor
into what would otherwise, of course,
be a very tame story, the directors forgot
about the Hottentot, misspelt Quater-
main’s name throughout the titling, got
the battle into a hopeless muddle, and
excised the Hall of the Dead, the death
of Gagool and various other scenes and
episodes which Haggard seemed to think
were essential to his narration.
However, with what is left of the plot
the principals and the people who
arranged and photographed the settings
have produced some first-class film
material. Hardwicke, safe in any role,
is ideal as the terse, efficient elephant
hunter. Robeson’s barbaric chants {not
accompanied by an orchestra from the
Ritz) fit naturally into his role, and
Young gets his usual quota of chuckles
with dryly humorous remarks quite in
keeping with the character of the chirpy
naval man. Twala’s court, the smelling-
out by the witch-doctors, the eclipse and
the duel between Curtis and Twala have
been spared, and the finale, with King
Solomon’s mines crumbling to bits in a
volcanic eruption, though not as Hag-
gard wrote it, is thrilling and impressive.
But the most lasting impression is of
Paul Robeson sending out great boom-
ing notes for the pleasure of hearing
them echoed, two seconds later, from the
side of a great mountain. At Sydney
State.
“Meet the Missus.”
HENPECKED MAN .. Victor Moore
HIS WIFE Helen Broderick
THEIR DAUGHTER .. Ann Shirley
Sixty minutes of machine-made humor.
Mrs. Foster, being incapable of making
a bed or boiling a potato —her husband,
a barber, does all the housework —enters
for a competition organised by a maca-
roni-manufacturing corporation, the win-
ner of which is to gain the title “Mrs.
America” and be acclaimed the nation’s
best housewife. The finals are run off at
Atlantic City, where the husbands, in a
feeble effort to show their resentment,
attend in bathing suits. Melancholy Mr.
Moore works industriously for laughs,
but the general impression the opus leaves
behind is one of strain. The situations
are strained ; the characters strain them-
selves trying to infuse into the proceed-
ings some scintilla of feasibility. At
any moment it seems as if the screen at
Sydney State will be rent from top to
bottom like the veil of the Old Testament
temple.
“Elephant Boy.”
KALA NAG Iravatha
TOOMAI OF THE ELEPHANTS, Sabu
MUCHUA APPA Alan Jeayes
ELEPHANT-HUNTER PETERSEN,
Walter Hudd
Korda had luck with the casting of
this excellent screen version of Kipling’s
First Jungle Book story, “Toomai of
the Elephants.” The part of Kala Nag
calls for not only a very big elephant
(“ten feet clear at the shoulder”) and
one of exceptional docility, but one
also sufficient of an actor to give an ex-
hibition of elephantine fury and drop it
in a split second at the word of com-
mand. Iravatha fills the bill completely.
His co-star Sabu, an intelligent, good-
looking 13-year-old, looks like a frog on
a church roof when perched on Ira-
vatha’s neck. There are a few little melo-
dramatic additions to Kipling’s yarn, but
in the essential situations, and particu-
larly in the grand finale, where little
Toomai, who has seen the legendary
dance of the elephants, is acclaimed by
the hunters and given the royal salute
by the pachyderms, the words of the
book are adhered to.
This is the best jungle film yet done.
It was made, for the most part, in India,
in the country round Mysore, and the
Maharajah of Mysore lent scores of
elephants and arranged a great Kiddah.
Hollywood, with all its resources,
couldn’t begin to tackle such a subject
as this. At Sydney Lyceum.
“Bulldog Drummond at Bay.”
CAPTAIN DRUMMOND, John Lodge
ALGY LONG WORTH, Claude Allister
RUSSIAN PLOTTERS, Victor Jory and
Hugh Miller
FEMALE SLEUTH .. Dorothy Mackaill
Much better cast than previous film
versions of “Sapper’s” stories. The yarn
is the one about the rescue of an aero-
plane inventor, kidnapped and tortured
by the international crooks Kalinsky and
Gregoroff. The weakness of the story as
it is unfolded on the screen is that it
“KING SOLOMON’S MINES.”
Gagool smells out Umbopa (Paul Robeson ) to the consternation of Quatermain
(Cedric Hardwicke) and Capt. Good (Roland Young). In background a
Kukuana. Further back in background, King Solomon’s Mines. Out of picture,
the female film star who spoilt the show.
would have been possible for either
Drummond or the lady detective to have
put a stop to the whole coil of villainy
by calling in the police at the outset.
However, they didn’t, so Drummond had
to nitro-glycerine his way out of a gas-
poisoned laboratory, Gregoroff had to
heave Kalinsky through a castle window,
and the lady detective had to be rescued
from a fire. Action is swift and acting
vigorous, and the thriller is much above
the usual English standard. Lodge,
Allister, Jory and Miller are all first-
class, and Miss Mackaill has never had
a more effective role. At Sydney
Lyceum.
“I Promise to Pay.”
LOAN-SHARK VICTIM, Chester Morris
HIS WIFE Helen Mack
MASTER RACKETEER .. Leo Carrillo
HONEST DISTRICT ATTORNEY,
Thomas Mitchell
It would appear that in the U.S.A. the
lending of money at fantastically high
rates of interest is regarded as a criminal
racket. The victim in this case borrows
50 dollars, signing a promise to pay that
contains no mention of interest. Subse-
quently a reference to 20 p.c. per week
is written in and the debtor, if he
doesn’t' pay up, is beaten by thugs or
held up and robbed. After suffering
this sort of treatment for a while the
hero of this very naturally-acted and logi-
cal screen-play gets fed up and goes to
the police. His evidence results in the
rounding-up of most of the minor
heelers of the loan-shark organisation,
and an attempt to assassinate the princi-
pal witness leads the law straight to the
cheeky alien who controls the racket.
But before this happens there are shots
of the racketeer buying 2000-dollar fur
overcoats and motor-cars to match his
women’s dresses, while his victims pawn
their poor belongings to pay his exac-
tions. The grand finale is a raid on the
racket’s headquarters and the burning
of its stock of promissory notes. So dif-
ferent from Australia, where the only
remedy of a loan-shark victim is to in-
stitute an expensive suit in equity. The
demonstration of Uncle Sam’s very much
better laws on the subject is at Sydney
Mayfair.
“Take My Tip.”
PEER TURNED HEAD WAITER,
Jack Hulbert
HIS ACTRESS WIFE,
Cicely Courtneidge
THEIR BUTLER-EMPLOYER,
Frank Cellier
This is an English version of a French
comedy, with a plot as fragile as gos-
samer. Everything depends on the
amount of light-hearted gaiety the prin-
cipals are able to put into the action.
The Hulbert-Courtneidge duo do this sort
of thing ideally, and by sheer good
humor, adroitness and insouciance en-
liven a series of episodes so trifling that
a recital of them would have no signi-
ficance. Hulbert’s strength seems to lie
in complete assurance combined with
complete absence of self-consciousness.
He isn’t the matinee-idol type, and knows
it. Miss Courtneidge, too, doesn’t trade
in glamor, but in wit, in which there’s a
lot more entertainment. Together they
are the most effective pair of comedians
the English screen can boast, and their
latest vehicle can be recommended as a
good antidote to any sort of blues. At
Sydney Mayfair.
“Dimples.”
ORPHAN STREET MUSICIAN,
Shirley Temple
HER GRANDPA Frank Morgan
WEALTHY WIDOW .. Helen Westley
HER NEPHEW Robert Kent
New York in 1850. The city on the
Hudson then had a population of half
a million, and, according to the film
captions, a great many of those half-
million considered the theatre was the
plaything of the devil. Such being Man-'
hattan’s strait-lacedness it is a little sur-
prising to find the principal character
doing a songandance turn in the street
in the attire of “The Little Boy at
Manly,” accompanied by a mouth-organ-
and-kazoo band of youngsters, mostly
niggers. Later Dimples gets a job as
Eva in “Uncle Tom’s Cabin”; her
masterly handling of the deathbed scene
wins influential friends for the theatre,
and Mrs. Beecher Stowe’s masterpiece
runs 53 weeks, to be replaced by a
Christy Minstrel show with a jazz band
(band just 60 years ahead of historical
accuracy).
However, these little things don’t
matter- much compared with the incom-
parable Shirley’s performance, which in-
cludes her whole extensive box of tricks ;
Frank Morgan’s picture of a good-
hearted but no-honester-than-he-can-
afford-to-be old pro.; Helen Westley’s
impersonation of a mid-Victorian fine
lady and the capable playing of a sub-
sidiary cast that includes Burton
Churchill, John Carradine and Stepin
Fetchit. At Sydney Regent.
“Oh, Doctor!”
HYPOCHONDRIAC E. E. Horton
HIS NURSE Eve Arden
The set-up is a favorite one for
comedies featuring Edward Everett
Horton. Liberally swathed in scarves,
overcoats and innumerable rugs, his ac-
tivities are for the most part confined to
the reading of books on all the diseases
to which the human frame is heir; his
neurotic imagination convinces him he
has clicked for the most virulent of them.
He is the sole legatee of his under-
taker dad, and, believing he has but a
few months of existence to be miserable
in, he swaps the half-million he will
come in for in six months’ time for
50,000 dahlars, supplied by comic gang-
sters led by Thurston Hall and Edward
Brophy. Their efforts, made more strenu-
ous by Mr. Horton’s sudden —and illogi-
cal —acquisition of dare-devil tendencies,
to keep him alive for the stipulated
period form the basis of the comedy,
which, mostly owing to Horton’s facial
contortions, gets a moderate issue of
laughs. Eve Arden lends spirited sup-
port. At Sydney Regent.
“Hollywood Cowboy.”
INCOGNITO MOVIE STAR,
George O’Brien
HIS SIDE-KICK Joe Caits
RANCH GYURL Cecilia Parker
The humorous twist which the large
and genial Mr. O’Brien gives to his he-
man role strengthens what otherwise is
just an f.a.q. Western. He is a specialist
in the art of “kidding,” and to his rival
for the lady’s affections he adopts the
large and tolerant attitude of the Great
Dane for the perky fox-terrier.
Asa movie star who has just com-
pleted a Western, he goes straight from
location with a jaded city pal to sur-
rounding rural parts for a hunting trip,
but lands into a job on a ranch, drawn
irresistibly thereto by the pretty niece
of the forbidding female who owns it.
The rest of the opus is devoted to
George’s battle of wits with a gang of
racketeers who are soaking ranch-owners
for “protection” money against industrial
troubles of the gangsters’ own brewing.
That the large-fisted hero wins all his
mental, physical and romantic engage-
ments goes without saying, and his
methods are virile and diverting.
Charles Middleton is the juicy villain
and Maude Eburne the hard-boiled
auntie. At Sydney Capitol.
“Fly-away Baby.”
POLICE LOOTNENT, Barton Mac Lane
SLICK REPORTERESS, Glenda Farrell
Another, and a not very successful,
thriller of the Torchy Blane series. The
mediocre story is weakened by wretched
recording of the very fast speech of the
two chief players.
The author has tried to cash in on a
last-year’s stunt by two pressmen who
had an aerial race around the globe. The
race in this case is made triangular by
the inclusion of a suspected murderer who
is being trailed by the newshoundess.
The race is made quite thrilling by
having all three of them travel at each
stage of the journey in the same liner,
though how one can score a win over any
of the others in the circumstances is a
mystery.
No super-snooping newsgal like Torchy
Blane ever existed outside the realm of
the fictionist’s imagination, and the sur-
rounding story is no more convincing
than the lady who appears to be de-
signed as a combination of Venus, Lord
Northcliffe and Sherlock Holmes. But,
hanging doggedly on despite the horse-
laughs of her police boy-friend, she lands
her criminal in the end.
A few of the situations are exciting,
and the grim-lipped Mr. Mac Lane and
the snappy Miss Farrell work zestfully


ķ
i : ;
m ■■
wmm
■
: : ;
m
:
ii
m m
m
am
:
mm
■
m
wm
u
11
mm
I
llfilliliiiW
am
■ ■ :
M
Bit
I: ■ ■
Cf. : i
To
Messrs. William
Homebush.
Dear Sirs,
64 Elliott Road,
South Lismore.
Arnott, Limited,
Enclosed please find a photograph of my son
Warren, aged 1 7 months, who has been reared on
Arnott’s Milk Arrowroot and Shredded Wheatmeal
Biscuits. I find that both these biscuits supply all the
required needs for a growing child, avoiding the
development of that flabby fat. I can thoroughly
recommend either of these two mentioned biscuits for
any growing children.
Yours faithfully,
Mrs. W. D. Newman.
During the past half-century over 40,000
photographs of strong, vigorous children
reared from the age of six months on
Arnott’s Famous Milk Arrowroot Biscuits have
been sent with testimonials by grateful
mothers to William Arnott, Limited.
Cbroottls
Famous
MILK ARROWROOT
BISCUITS
Always ask your Grocer for Arnott's “They are Better than Ever
but uninspired directing and plot and
technical weaknesses keep the affair in the
ruck. At Sydney Capitol.
“Think Fast, Mr. Mo to.”
MYSTERIOUS JAPANESE, Peter Lorre
PRETTY PLAYBOY .... Thomas Beck
RUSSIAN TORCH-SINGER,
Virginia Field
GAMBLING-HELL MANAGER,
Sig Rumann
Readers of J. P. Marquand’s clever
story in the “Saturday Evening Post” will
be disappointed with this opus, which
owes nothing to the author save the title
and the names of some of the characters.
The Marquand yarn had some claims to
originality as to plot, was peopled by
intelligent individuals and unfolded itself
in a straightforward manner. It was
intended for the entertainment of people
of at least average intelligence. For
screen purposes it had to be watered down
to suit a mental age of four and a half.
The young Americans in the piece,
originally a man of strong character and
considerable resource and enterprise and
a plucky, intelligent woman, have been
turned into a weak-kneed, boozing play-
boy and a goofy Russian cabaret singer.
The careful, capable Mr. Moto, whose
principal asset was his unobtrusiveness,
becomes a jiu-jitsuing, cardsharping
poseur. The plot fizzles away into a series
of muddled roughantumbles, and so little
respect is shown for the audience’s intelli-
gence that the Japanese, after falling to
the ground with blood welling from his
stomach, hops up again to display an
armorplate vest which has stopped the
bullet.
Lorre does his best with a ridiculous
role; Miss Field is made to sing, an
error which would have been avoided
had some regard been paid to the story ;
T. Beck has nothing to do but dangle
after the girl, and Sig Rumann villainises
in his usual heavy manner. At Sydney
Plaza.
“Angel’s Holiday.”
ENTRUCK INFANT, Jane Withers
Robert Kent
MOVIE STAR Sally Blane
Hollywooden minds move in mys-
terious ways their child wonders to per-
form. Jane Withers is an attractive and
talented youngster who revels in song-
andance and fun. But, as she has reached
the age of nine, the celluloid barons
deem it fitting that she should develop
a pash on a man. This incredibly stupid
film is the result. If Jane’s screen repu-
tation survives it she will owe no thanks
to the producer. In a plot much in-
volved with kidnapping and gun-toting
gangsters, Jane is jealous of a film star
who loves her reporter friend. The star,
a publicity hound, goes into “smoke” to
create a paper sensation, but is captured
by the foreman of her grandfather’s
farm. Follows a distressing interlude in
which imbecilic peasants figure. The
cops, helpless, turn to the reporter to
do their sleuthing for them. And the
self-sacrificing Jane helps him rescue his
love.
Joan Davis, the lady with the ever-
collapsing legs, continually knocking her-
self silly with blows from her own fist,
goes through her routine, and A1 Lydell
capers around as a frisky ancient, but
they deepen the gloom. At Sydney
Plaza.
STAGE SHOWS.
Comedy Harmonists.
The usual musical audience rolled up
at Sydney Town Hall on Saturday night
to listen to the sextet of Austrian singers
brought to Australia at the expense, if
not for the delectation, of radio listeners.
The show was very successful with the
audience in the hall, for they had the
benefit of the comedy part of the enter-
tainment —action, gesture, facial expres-
sion. The singing was quite nice, and
imitations of orchestral effects were very
cleverly done. But as a radio show 70
p.c. of it is non-effective.
•i* *i* "J*
Schneevoigt’s Farewell to Melbourne.
Professor Schneevoigt was in generous
mood on Saturday night at Melbourne
Town Hall. He led off with Sibelius’s
symphonic poem “Tapiola,” which pur-
ports to describe the mysterious dreams
and, in a manner of speaking, the night-
mares of the Finnish forest. Then he
steered his orchestra through the “Nur-
sery Suite” which Elgar wrote to cele-
brate the birth of a member of the Brit-
ish royal family. Beethoven’s Concerto
in G Major followed, and brought that
distinguished pianist and teacher Edward
Goll out of his comparative obscurity.
Goll has just completed one of the most
notable expeditions in local musical his-
tory by exploring the peaks of musical
literature from its classical beginnings up
(or down) to the most modern of the
moderns in a series of suburban-hall con-
certs. He cajoled the Steinway into a
beautifully rhythmic response to the
Beethoven opus. The evening should
have culminated in what most listeners
would imagine to be the limit in orches-
tral finales, namely, the last movement
of Tschaikowsky’s Fifth Symphony. For
his masterly direction of this colossal
composition the professor received an
Australia bear, a boomerang, an armful
of green garlands and other objects, and,
being duly grateful, made a farewell
speech and then provided a couple of
encores. It was nearing eleven when the
Finnish conductor finished his genuflec-
tions. His programmes have not been
uniformly up to what are locally regarded
as international standards, and his last
was his best. He is reputed to be a hard
man at rehearsals, and he leaves the
orchestra in unusually good fettle for
Joseph Post, who will be the next to
control it.
CURRENT ARTBURSTS.
Horses and Girls by Septimus Power.
Horses, dogs and girls make up most
of the show of 60 pictures by Septimus
Power which deck the walls of the David
Jones Gallery, Sydney. The 40 oils are
the most impressive. Chief among these
is a big canvas, “Team of Greys,” in
which draught horses are effectively dis-
posed against a nicely subdued back-
ground. The nearly-as-big “Plough
Horses” includes some equally good
equine painting, but the background
refuses to go back. “Three Horses’
Heads,” best-liked by this commentator
in the horseflesh section, expresses love
of the subjects in every brush stroke.
The horse-cwra-girl combination is seen
at its best in a very graceful composition,
“The Riders.”
Also in oils are a portrait of girl and
dog, “Valerie and Dusty,” and portraits
“Phyllis” and “The Artist’s Wife,” all
excellent, and “Two Spaniels,” which
couldn’t have been bettered by Landseer.
A jocund landscape, “Evening Glow,”
and a study of zinnias also catch the
eye. “Goats” treats a prosaic subject
quite poetically.
In water-colors the technique is first-
class—best perhaps in “Ploughing”—and
“Equestrian Group” is a strikingly pretty
decorative design.
J. H. Young, Master of Pastels.
J. H. Young, an Australian long resi-
dent abroad, who has recently returned
to Sydney, puts on an attractive show
of oils, water-colors and pastels at
Rubery Bennett’s Galleries, Sydney.
Young is unique among Australian
painters in that he is equally at home
in all three mediums. His oils bear evi-
dence of his long exile ; in their heavy
richness they are more Canadian than
Australian in style. Most of these
pictures were painted in England and
France, but Sydney’s old church, St.
James’s, provides a pleasing canvas, on
which, for once in a way, the graceful
old spire is given its correct proportions.
Best of the water-colors is “La
Turbie,” rich in its shadows. “Sydney
Harbor Moods,” a skyscape, is also
pleasing.
Most notable of all are the pastels, a
baker’s dozen of them, many exhibited
successfully in Paris and at the Royal
Pastel Society’s show in London.
“Queen’s Park, Highgate,” “The Golf
Links,” “The Place, Sospel,” and
“Cremorne from Kurrabra” are perhaps
the most striking, but all are charming
demonstrations of the combined grace-
fulness and strength of good pastel tech-
nique.
•I* •b
Trindall’s “Eros” Sells for 750 Guineas.
About the cheeriest thing that has
happened in the Sydney art market for
a decade is the sale of G. Lyall Trindall’s
allegorical picture “Eros,” exhibited at
the most recent show of the Royal Art
Society, for 750 guineas. It is a very long
while since such a price was paid for a
picture by even a dead- Australian
painter, and Trindall is very much alive.
'I" 1 'l* *l*
Some Adelaide Exhibitions.
T. H. Bone has a small water-color
show at Bayly’s Gallery, Adelaide. Always
a sound draughtsman, he has come on
greatly in color, his gum-trees and quiet
landscapes showing vast improvement.
The Camera Club is showing at the
Society of Arts, Prof. Kerr Grant saying
handsome things, in opening it, on the
help that modern photography gives to
astronomy and to all laboratory work.
Adelaide National Gallery has already
recognised this form of art by frequent
purchases. Inter-State work is strong in
the present exhibition. Diplomas go to
Le Gray, White, Tomlinson, Cazneaux
and Irene Viney.


The Richardson Chain Hotel
m
THE
HOTEL
LONDON
99 Elizabeth St.,
(next Collins St.)
Melbourne
Hot and Cold
Water, Telephone
and Central Heat-
ing, Reading Lamp
to Every Bedroom.
MELBOURNE'S MOST
CENTRAL HOTEL.
RATES PER DAY.
Room and Meals .... from 12/6
Room and Breakfast . . from 7/6
and RED
KE T A
CAVIAR.
The favourite hors d’oeuvres.
Sold by Leading Stores and Served at all
Fashionable Resorts.
Repr.: F. W. L. Beckmann, 16-20 Bridge St., Sydney.
k
The
Flying
Scotsman
Non-stop run.
“LONDON to EDINBURGH,”
393 miles in 7$ hours.
London & North Eastern Railway
for luxury, speed, comfort.
Descriptive booklets and full informa-
tion supplied on application to
BURNS, PHILP & CO., ETD.,
7 Bridge Street, Sydney, and Branches.
A WOMAN’S
LETTER
A non-stop party from three o’clock
till eight was set whirling by the Pastel
Ball committee. This was to help the
funds of the ball, which in turn helps
the Industrial Blind Institute. Every-
body likes something new, so before the
time stated the ballroom of the Aus-
tralia was jambed tight with women clus-
tered around the squeezed-together
tables. “A Modern Monologue in Make-
up” was the title under which the party
staggered along. First there was a dis-
course on make-up for every occasion by
Ann Heard. This was illustrated later
by Sydney’s well-known and good-look-
ing in day and evening frocks, in swim
suits and beach wear, accompanied by the
correct complexions. Pam Roberts,
Robin Eakin and Betty McCoy were
among the least self-conscious. Robin
wore one of the new Bayadere printed
beach suits.
Trays heaped with daphne and violets
filled the air with fragrance. Anne
Gordon, who leaves for England in a
few weeks’ time, was one of the flower-
sellers. Some of the flower and cigarette
vendors, Molly Brearley among them,
wore the round necklines of their black
sheer frocks outlined in field flowers.
Peach-blossom was everywhere, and
mountain gardens had been rifled of
their spring treasure that all the little
tables might be gay. As the afternoon
wore on, Jimmy Raglan, the male at the
microphone, gained the support of more
men. Jo Fallon was one of the early
arrivals. By the cocktail hour, five-
fifteen, husbands and boy friends were
struggling for foothold. There was still
a full house when eight o’clock and
closing time arrived.
Apart from the dress parade, the silver
fox worn by Mrs. Eric Sheller, who with
Mrs. Lang Gibson, Mrs. Charles
Macleod and Mrs. John Faviell organised
the success, deserved notice. So did the
horizon-blue angora suit displayed by
Mrs. Malcolm Mackellar; her hat, too,
was a nice pastel subject with its pale-
blue feathers. Mrs. John Faviell’s navy
sheer frock won distinction with its row
of little white bows down the front.
Mary Kelly’s tarn beret looked as though
it came from Vienna.
Arthur Rubinstein, who commences
his season with the A.B.C. at to-morrow’s
symphony concert, is not so lucky as
his friend Bronislaw Huberman, who can
carry his instrument with him even when
flying above the Australian desert. The
two artists had a strange meeting when
the pianist’s ’plane, flying south, came
down to refuel at Daly Waters, and the
violinist’s ’plane, flying north, chose the
same instant and the same place to come
to earth for a little refreshment. Just
a casual meeting—that’s Australia. Their
last meeting was at a dinner in the
Savoy, London. Rubinstein told the
story in his fluent Polish-flavored Eng-
lish over the cocktails poured in his
honor by the Broadcasting Commission.
He also told how Verbrugghen invited
him to come and join the staff of Syd-
ney’s Conservatorium. “But I was taken
up with being the virtuoso and travelling
in many lands But what a happy
country to make one’s home in!”
The artist’s pearl tiepin, the coque
plume in Mrs. Walter Swinson’s hat,
chairman Cleary’s speech and his wife’s
furs were attractive items of this five-to-
seven. It went with quite a dash. Knight
Samuel Cohen squired his daughter of
the pretty smile, Mrs. Keith Moss. Mrs.
Hope Gibson was with the Musical Asso-
ciation’s new secretary Edna Andrews.
Poland’s Consular De Noskowskis were
there to greet their countryman. Mrs.
Moses had her black coat collared in
Persian lamb. Usher’s Blue Room
housed the mixture of Commission,
critics and cocktails.
If Mary Gilmore was not noted for
her poetry she’d be remarkable for her
public service; and if you knew her for
neither you’d still note her for her vigor
and f@r the straightness of her back. Mary
has just had her seventy-second birth-
day, and on that occasion she held some-
thing in the nature of a levee. Daughter-
in-law, just down from the Gilmore
family home in North Queensland,
helped in receiving and entertaining the
guests. Many will remember her as
Dorothy Webster, of the old Lockley
Library, a one-time happy hunting-
ground for Sydney writers and gardeners.
Eileen McGrath, one of Sydney’s most
talented young sculptors, was married in
London last month. Now she is Mrs.
Albert Frost, and her husband is a
writer and reviewer of books. Eileen
was the first diploma student of sculp-
ture of the Sydney Technical College
and Rayner Hoff’s assistant in his work
on the Anzac Memorial. The Sydney
girl went to London four years ago with
her brother Raymond, who also found
his feet quickly on the street called Suc-
cess. Every now and then some of her
clever sketches can be seen in “Punch.”
She has also done several portrait busts,
and has illustrated a book of humorous
sketches.
Friends in Maoriland, where T. S.
Gordon was stationed at the beginning
of his shipping career, will be pleased
to learn of the honor that Belgium has
bestowed on him. T.S.G., managing
director of Birt and Co., is as popular
with the employees of the firm as with
fellow-directors. He is now travelling in
Europe With Mrs. Gordon, and he has
been presented with the Cross of Knight
of the Order of Leopold by the Belgian
Minister for Foreign Affairs in Brussels.
Toby Williamson is a Brisbane artist
who has been long enough in Sydney to
paint canvases to fill a one-man
show. This will be opened in the E.-S.U.
rooms at three o’clock next Monday. In
Florence Miss Williamson studied the
science of color with Countess Lillie, a
noted water-colorist, and, returning to
Brisbane, studied with Vida Lahey.
An old friend, broderie Anglaise, turned
up again in Anthony Horderns’ spring
fashion show. Under the name of linen
lace it holds all its usual suggestion of
coolness combined with tea-for-two
attractiveness. The corn-gold one with
the flared skirt and the short puffed
sleeves ought to save the wearer the money
it cost in flowers for her flat. If you
love a Leghorn hat you’ll find one at the
Brickfield Hill store. Whether you like
Mussolini or not, you come to the salute
when it’s a matter of Italian millinery.
All set for the boatrace was the natty
bright blue linen with its navy-and-red-
striped scarf. And, by the way, don’t
forget the coarse mesh lace that overseas
designers have turned into smart suf-
ficiency over supple linen slips.
Throughout the year the American
Society (its members are the wives of
American businessmen in Sydney) helps
in an unobtrusive manner many city
charities. For Thanksgiving Day, which
falls on November 25, these ladies plan
a spectacular and colorful ball to be
known as “A Night in Honolulu.” The
whole of the Trocadero will be trans-
formed into a bit of Hawaii. There will
be the Aloha tower, the beach at
Waikiki, exotic flowers, the strumming of
guitars, Hawaiian dishes. A whole cargo
of leis is being specially prepared, and
each of the expected 1200 guests will be
presented with one —at a price. Mrs.
Franz Von Schilling, who is one of a
committee just brimming over with ideas,
gave this Letter the outline of the scheme.
It will be a real thanksgiving party for
the Sydney Day Nurseries, the cause to
benefit.
Mrs. Charles Lloyd Jones’s lecture was
the National Gallery attraction last Fri-
day. • This was given in the midst of the
loan collection of British paintings, and
covered a wide field. The wife of an
artist, the speaker naturally knew her
subject, and nicety of phrase and apt
term marked the progress of the talk.
The subject or story picture was treated
from the angle of the psychology or men-
tality of the beholder. The Victorian
attitude to art Was gently chidden. There
were over 200 listeners, among them the
wives of half the judiciary. The speaker
looked as nice as she sounded. Her
black frock was caped in sable, and her
black hat flew a red and blue pom-pom
on the tip of its pointed crown.
One of the prettiest flower fetes of the
year is run by the Red Cross Younger
Set; and the girl in this photograph,
Gladys Richardson, is responsible. For
the past six years she has organised the
fete, and at the moment she is in the
throes of one which will bloom in
November. Gladys is secretary-superin-
tendent at Red Cross headquarters, and
very active in all the Younger Set affairs.
Raymond Sawyer photograph.
Up in Kembla Buildings there’s a
quiet little office. On the door is
marked: “The Girls’ Realm Guild.”
Behind that modest fa9ade runs a smooth
working organisation that is a real friend
in need to the girl in reduced circum-
stances. Perhaps the girl is half-way
through a university course, and the
family finances are swallowed up. Per-
haps she wants to become a nurse, and
can’t afford an outfit. Maybe she wants
to take a business course to better her
condition. These are the types of cases
that make appeal to the Guild. The
Guild is formed of young women, some
well-to-do, others workers. Their work
is among the pitiful poor of the middle
and upper classes —girls of refinement
whom circumstances have buffeted un-
duly. A feature of the Guild’s work is
that except to the two or three heads
the name of the girl receiving assistance
is known to none. In meetings she is
referred to by a letter or a number.
Women in all sorts of professions have
benefited by this unobtrusive help. Just
now, the Guild is smiling happily. As
a result of the recent Folk Lore Festival
in the Town Hall it is the richer by £154.
The Walter Swinsbns have sent out
cards for a five-to-seven to welcome
pianist Arthur Rubinstein. September 6
and the Queen’s Club are the time and
place, and as the Swinsons are adept at
party-giving it’s something to look for-
ward to. Mrs. Swinson is a front-rank
pianist herself.
Two more join the Maoriland colony
in Sydney. They are the Stewart Fitz-
gerald couple. When the Awatea arrived
last week Mrs. Fitzgerald was Joan Bull,
and she had come direct from Christ-
church to marry her young man, who
had arrived some months ago from the
same bit of Canterbury. Dr. Fitzgerald
is attached to the Council of Scientific
and Industrial Research, and his bride
shares his interests, for her job has been
demonstrator in chemical research in
Canterbury College. Wedding garment,
chiffon in brown and gold tones ; hat,
brown and large; flowers, spring golds.
The party of Sunday night was the
Bertie Kellys’ wedding anniversary. For
the occasion Mrs. Kelly had a new lilac
chiffon frock, and scintillated with
diamonds, souvenirs of the day from
husband and sons. Mrs. MacPhillamy
was down from Bathurst, and wore
spreading rose taffetas sashed in emerald
green. Niece Mary Kelly’s chiffons were
springlike. The house, too, showed the
season’s influence, and was decorated
with plum-blossom. Mrs. Charles Lloyd
Jones’s garnet velvets were cut with a
simple cunning that allowed them to fall
in sculped folds. Knight John Latham
was at this party; so were the Harry
Budges and French Consul Tremoulet.
A sort of Sabbath calm brooded over
Richmond on Saturday. Over the
R.A.A.F. station a sky of spring tender-
ness spread itself. The ’planes in their
hangars were in a deep siesta. The scene
was perfect for the party to which
Group-Captain Cole and the officers had
coo-eed local and city guests. This was
a sort of housewarming to the new
officers’ mess. It was within its walls
that the welcome handshake was given
by Vice-Marshal Williams, of Victoria,
and Mrs. Williams and by the Group-
Captain Coles. Mrs. Cole’s outfit was an
effective cinnamon-brown. Half Sydney,
including its Mayoress, was among the
tea-drinkers in the big dining-room,
which will be used for dancing when
evening parties occur. Mrs. Malcolm
Mackellar brought her usual good frock-
ing. Pat Quinan was among the very
smart. Belgium’s Segaerts and the Elink
Schuurmans were Consular people
present.
One day last week a Sydney bachelor
dropped into his favorite restaurant for
lunch. Instead of commencing his lunch
he told the waiter he was expecting a
friend and would give his order later.
Half an hour passed and no friend ar-
rived. Every now and again the solitary
man would eye the lunchers at other
tables. Finally he called the head waiter.
“Tell me,” he said, “have you seen a
young lady who seemed as though she
might be looking for me?” The head
waiter said he hadn’t observed such a
one. Could his client describe the young
lady’s appearance? The client moodily
shook his head. He explained he had
met the young lady the night before. He
hadn’t' caught her name when they were
introduced. All he knew was that she
had confessed to a passion for one of
his favorite dishes. He had invited her
to meet him at this particular restaurant,
and she had agreed. He could not re-
member whether she was dark or fair.
He did not know her name. But —vanity
of man! —he had thought she would re-
member all about him. He was a soli-
tary luncher that day.
Best uniforms will gladden the eye on
Thursday night at David Jones’s. This
is the date for the 2nd Divisional Ball,
when Brigadier-General I. G. Mackay
and the officers of the 2nd Division will
be the hosts. The General and Mrs
Mackay will entertain the official guests,
helped by Colonel and Mrs. Fewtrell.
This will be rather in the nature of a
farewell cheerio to Major-General Rosen-
thal and his lady.
One of Helen Simpson’s broadcast
talks was “travelling to eat.” And it
does look as though every woman’s circle
and literary society in the city thought
that the Australian authoress came here
expressly to eat their lunches and teas.
Last Friday the Society of Women
Writers weighed in with an early supper
party. Last night she was the guest of
the P.E.N. at dinner in the Forum Club.
Helen returns to England by way of the
U.S.A. in a few days’ time. Her con-
sumption of midday salads at Sydney
women’s clubs is probably a record.
Not quite so colorful as in former
years owing to the lack of individual
Consular sets in their national dress, still
the International Ball managed to bring
a rainbow into David Jones’s ballroom.
This was a ballet dressed in the costumes
of every nation in the League, and the
special dance had been arranged by
Sheila Whytock and Vera de Vare.
Quite the most vivid costumes were those
of Japan and China. The Consul-
General for the land of the cherry-
blossom and Mrs. Wakamatsu entertained
a group that suggested a Japanese print.
The Consul-General for China and Mrs.
Pao were among the revellers.


SHE DIDN'T
TO FLY THE
PACIFIC
or star in the films. All her interest
centred round her home . Making jam, feeding
chi ckens, andlooking after the children duri
the holidays kept her busy and contented. Then,
for no apparent reason, these things began to pall
ng
WT‘
vV r
Oh
i'-j
<
-fT
Why are you selling
off the fowls
Mrs. Ellis 7 You used to
take such pride in
them* particularly
the Rhode Islands
they need
such a lot of
looking after,
and I just don't
feel up to
any more.
y
R
Isay, old girl^
, , let’s get the
«✓"' car out and '
run up to town.
A bit of dinner
and a show
would make a
V. break.
That *“&&?»*'
■ 1
in the end I had to come
to you, doctor. I used to do all
the work myself but now- well.
I even wake up tired. I feel
quite guilty
about if.
M
8
raw**-'
&
You see
Mrs. Ellis,
your trouble is
Night-Starvation
You’re not
replacing the
energy you use up
during sleep. Here's
the way to create
the new energy
you need—
There’s Mrs. Ellis from the
Wyona Farm. Wonder what
she’s got in that parcel. Its
not meat, because they get it
delivered,and its
not library books /gBBK&Bk
-they don’t s.
wraD them ud. v
Ks round, Maudie.
Its a jar or a +in.
Thats what it is. Now
what could f Qfrjb,*
v Mrs. Ellis be
J* fJ
I mV Mt ‘
Vs
is
&
I reckon the
doctor put Her
on if. My sister-
in-law seen her
going to the
doctors with
her own eyes.
I
ble s , s .?ire , B° r . ,icl<s
every
this
she
has
cup
Miss° s
goes
hot
she
m ixe
before
true
as
has
That?
bed
ere
ding
to
stan
as
SIX WEEKS LATER
X™
Hang if, Mother
this isn’t a
steeplechase. >
Give a chap a {
breather. /
\ Hurry up, Michael
Come on John, we’ve
miles to go, and it’s
v. nearly teatime.
A
yr&
'to
N
THERE must be hundreds of people all over
the country who wake up tired and get
more and more tired as the day goes on. It
never occurs to them that energy is still used
up during sleep, so they do nothing to create
new energy in its place. The last thing they
suspect is "Night-Starvation.”
A regular cup of Horlick’s, taken hot before
bed, creates the new energy needed. It helps
you to wake up thoroughly rested and ready
to face the hardest day, and guards you
against "Night-Starvation.”
Prices from 1/6 economy size, 2/9.
Horlick’s Mixer, 1/-.
OFFER! tin Horlick's Mixer Measuring Spoon-—all for 2/-.
31H7.
HORLICKS GUARDS AGAINST
NIGHT- STARVATION
THIS MEANS YOU SLEEP SOUNDLY,
WAKE REFRESHED, AND HAVE
EXTRA ENERGY ALL DAY.


r
V
n
WAKE UP ! !
,r BARTZ
Nature’s Salts of the Earth
Drugs are only a temporary
relief, but BARTZ, the
IMPROVED MINERAL
SPRING TONIC SALTS, is
Nature’s own remedy for
excessive fat, headaches,
rheumatic pains, sleepless-
ness, giddiness, high blood
pressure, constipation, liver,
kidney bladder troubles, uric acid, indigestion, skin
complaints etc. Obtainable all Chemists and Stores,
CHEAPER and BETTER 1/- A 2/- JARS
Corns Sentenced to Death .
Corns have worried you—now worry them:
although “worry” is hardly the word, for
A’CORN SILK does not trifle with corns, but
ruthlessly kills them. How comfortable your
feet feel after A’CORN SILK has removed
all your soft or hard corns —a 6d. packet will
do this for you without pain or inconvenience.
Corns are killed while you sleep—a matter of
a few hours. Chemists sell A’CORN SILK at
6d per packet. Packed by Felton, Grimwade
and Duerdins, Ltd., Melbourne.
Legal Notice.
JAMES WILLIAMS Deceased.
ANNE WILLIAMS Deceased.
PURSUANT to the Directions of the Judge in
the Actions in the Chancery Division of the High
Court of Justice “re JAMES WILLIAMS de-
ceased (late of Cefnmystrych in the County of
Carmarthen) Williams v. Phillips 1937 W. 1966
and “re ANNE WILLIAMS deceased (also of
Cefnmystrych) Williams v. Phillips 1937
W 2003” John Williams or if he died before
the abovenamed James Williams (who died 6th
July 1928 intestate) and Anne Williams (who
died 9th September 1928 intestate) his issue (if
any) who survived the respective intestates or
his or their personal representative in person
or by his or their Solicitors are on or before
the 30th November 1937 to send by post pre-
paid to Mr. FRANCIS ROBERT NOTT of
52 Bishopsgate London E.C.2 Solicitor their
full Christian and surnames address and de-
scriptions and full particulars of their claims or
in default thereof they will be peremptorily ex-
cluded from participating in the distribution of
the estates of the intestates.
Friday the 3rd December 1937 at 12 o clock
noon is appointed for hearing and adjudicating
upon the said claims before MASTER MOSSE
at the Chambers of the Judge Room No. 163
Royal Courts of Justice Strand London Eng-
lal A claimant not residing in England or Wales
must send with particulars of his claim the
name and address of a person in England or
Wales to whom notices to the claimant can be
sent.
DATED this 22nd day of July, 1937.
R. L. MOSSE, Master.
The abovenamed John Williams was a brother
of the said JAMES and ANNE WILLIAMS.
He was born at Cefnmystrych aforesaid on 20tn
February, 1861; he emigrated to Australia m
1884 and at one time resided at Black Ridge,
Charmont, Queensland. He returned to Eng-
land in September, 1909, and for a short period
resided with his brothers and sisters at Cefnmys-
trych, and is believed to have returned to Aus-
tralia’about August, 1910.
TAMPLIN & CO., 52 Bishopsgate, London.
England; Agents for T. HOWELL DAVIES
& CO., Carmarthen, Solicitors for the Plamtifi-
Melbourne
Chatter
It is time this social handshaking as a
welcome gesture at affairs where guests
run into hundreds should be dropped.
When Premier Dunstan had got through
with the “glad-to-meet-you-good-bye
business at the reception the Government
staged as its greeting to the Education Con-
ference delegates, his hand must have been
too weary to hold his cup of supper coffee.
While the National Gallery provided
a dignified setting in keeping with
the spirit of the conference, the corridors
with their treasure showcases constituted
a bottle neck, and one could only travel
slowly. It took some people three-
quarters of an hour to come from the
front door to the Stawell Gallery. The
wily ones dropped out of the crush.
Mounting the grand marble staircase was
like taking part in a hill-climbing contest.
The crowd was so dense here that one
had to struggle to keep a foothold. The
little Japanese visitor, Miss Tsurumi, in
national costume —lotus green splashed
with pink blossoms, and a handsome obi
of floral brocade —got caught in the traffic
jamb.
The museum was closed, so even if
they wanted to the visitors could not
get a glimpse of Phar Lap. A few women
promenaded in ball gowns, but it was not
a night for bare backs. Brains counted
more than furbelows. Sister Mary Quinan
in her deaconess’s bonnet and mission
ulster was more in harmony with the in-
tellectual atmosphere than those who
strutted about in full evening dress minus
wraps of any sort. Decorations were
given an airing. Hundreds of Coronation
medals were flaunted. One who had been
so honored told a funny story against
herself. She has worked for charity for
so many years and has become So accus-
tomed to giving instead of receiving that
when she was approached over the tele-
phone by an official in regard to the be-
stowal of a Coronation medal she could
not understand what he was driving at,
so she chipped in “How many medals
would I be expected to get rid of, and
how much do they cost?”
Parties and more parties were thrust
upon Aileen Lemon right up to the eve
of her wedding. This week she is due to
grt into the bridal array and marry
Geoffrey Docker, son of the late Dr. and
Mrs. Wyatt Docker, of Wangaratta, at
Melbourne Grammar chapel. The bridal
robe will be of unbroken line, but Ida
Tinsley and Phyllis Mein will glide in
billows of tulle. The best man is a mar-
ried man, Charles Alsop, and Jack Hood
has promised to keep an attentive eye on
the figures clouded in tulle. Aileen is the
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. E. A. Lemon,
Orrong-road, Toorak, who have issued
nearly 200 invitations for a late-afternoon
party after the event.
Amelia, the lay figure who is such a
helpful friend to National Gallery stu-
dents, was given a place of honor at the
students’ revel in the St. Kilda Town
Hall last week. Clad in white and silver
and clutching a floral bouquet Amelia
floated above the heads of the dancers,
in the place usually allocated to central
floral-pieces. The decorative motif was
Mexican, atmosphere being captured
with cacti and Spanish shawls made of
brown paper and gay paint. One of
the most vigorous figures was Elizabeth
Paterson, grand-niece of old John Ford
Paterson, one of Victoria’s painters in
the earlies. After four years’ work at
the Gallery, Elizabeth is now directing
her attention to frock designing. Judg-
ing by the almond-green brocade, with
its black velvet bolero and sombrero
finishes, which she created for Allanah
Coleman’s fancy dress, she seems to have
a flair for this branch of art. Elizabeth
took to the pencil almost as soon as she
could hold one. Aunt Betty Paterson has
kept her first drawing, a spider done at
the age of two. Busy till the last moment
on the night of the dance Elizabeth just
had time to swathe her slim figure in a
white-and-black shawl and pop on a
Mexican hat of black velvet.
Above the babble of foreign tongues
and the clatter of afternoon-tea cups,
Judge Foster made himself heard at the
International Club on Friday, when the
reception given in honor of a group of
delegates here for the Education Con-
ference was due to take a formal turn.
M. Bovet, the man with the ziff, took the
wrong turning in the traffic and wan-
dered in at the tail-end of the welcom-
ing, just as M. Tsurumi from the land of
the cherry-blossom was about to take the
floor. With the tact of an ambassador,
Foster, J., got over an awkward situation
by suggesting that the speakers would be
taken in alphabetical order, and Bovet
came first in the reshuffle. Fred Eggle-
ston, who prides himself on his inter-
national outlook, was gurgling with de-
light at being in a position to pay tribute
to the Japanese delegate, with whom he
had been linked in friendship for 10
years. The dainty daughter from Japan
was the star of the party, her robe and
obi eclipsing Dad’s oratory. Kazu-ko
Tsurumi captured as much attention and
admiration as a cinema favorite. Mrs.
Carlyle Smythe buzzed about chatting
in this language and that, and bringing
into the friendship circle diffident
nationals. Mrs. M. R. McMillan, who
brought these people of all nations to-
gether, spent most of the afternoon on
the doormat waiting to welcome guests
of honor.
Although John Forsayth induced Iris
Connolly to accept a betrothal ring a
couple of months ago, the platinum hoop
flashing three large diamonds remained
in its little satin-lined box till last week,
when the engagement was announced on
the eve of John’s departure for Sydney.
During a nine weeks’ visit here young
Forsayth spent most of his time popping
in and out of hospitals. A china dog
brought this couple together. Forsayth
was bowled over when Iris asked him to
help her get rid of some raffle tickets at
an Animal Welfare Ball two years ago.
The lad liked the lass’s line of chat, and for
him the day of the roving eye was over.
Long engagements are out of date,
and further news of this romance may be
expected any time. Iris is the elder
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Eric Connolly,
of Brighton. When Iris takes charge of
her new home, she will not be at the
mercy of the domestic staff. Owing to
her mother’s frail health she shoulders
the domestic responsibility of running a
large home where hospitality is dispensed
lavishly. No doubt some of her old
school chums of Catharine’s, Toorak,
will follow Iris down the aisle. Through
this marriage with John Forsayth, Iris
will become sister-in-law to Mrs. Leslie
Falkiner, of Zara, Deniliquin, Mrs.
Frank Falkiner, of Mt. Falcon, Upper
Murray, and Mrs. Ronald Leishman, of
Lord Clyde, Clunes. This picture of Iris
Connolly comes from the Esler studio.
Schneevoigt, the musician from Fin-
land who has been waving his baton in
Australia, took leave of Melbourne audi-
ences on Saturday night at a concert end-
ing in a crescendo of friendliness. He
came off his perch to accept a walking-
stick with the Finnish colors hanging on
to its crook handle, a baton, the usual
laurel wreath and a koala from toyland.
He said “thank you” in music, and took
an extra 20 minutes to do it. One of
the gifts came from the players. Schnee-
voigt has been a hard taskmaster, so it
is probable the tribute was bestowed
more in admiration than affection. After
rehearsals most of the players felt that
they had been lashed by an invisible
whip, but they all admitted that the
thrashings brought out the best in them.
The Schneevoigt concerts were ushered in
by an audience decked in gala clothes,
but they finished with a crowded house
made up of people who were there for
the love of the music, and didn’t care a
hang how they looked.
For the first time in years that fine
young horsewoman Lorna Embling will
be missing in the sports arena at the
Royal Show. She is just pulling round
after a bout of sickness that kept her ill
hospital until last Sunday. Her beautiful
hack Santo will go into, the ring with
a new rider up. The hunting season,
which got a late start through dry
weather, will be finishing up in a couple
of weeks. The picnic point-to-point races
are giving us the hint that the end is in
sight. This season has brought a fresh
batch of riders into the' hunting field.
Sandra Baillieu, daughter of the M.H.
couple, mounted on Ansaldo, trotted off
with the brush after the Findon Harriers’
meet on Friday. Sandra followed the
hounds a few times in England, but this
was her first appearance in the field here.
Other newcomers who have given a good
account of themselves this year include
Sue Gullett, Rosemary Knox and Diana
Landale.
Aileen Dent broke the Sabbath adding
the finishing touches to the last canvas of
a collection which she is showing to-day
at the Victorian Artists’ Galleries. How
Aileen manages to lure people to sit for
portraits in these days of bustle and
speed is a mystery, but whenever she
holds an exhibition there are always
many faces on the walls. In to-day’s lot
figures the portrait of 90-year-old Mrs.
Samson, with the air of a grande dame
and carrying all her hair on the top of
her head, like the dowagers of other
days. The youngish face of the grey-
haired Mrs. Geoff Gair shows above
black velvet and silver fox furs. The
most colorful figure in the portrait group
is the Mayor of Coburg, Councillor
Donald McDonald, wearing the kilt of
his clan, in which the plaid design is a
mixture of green, purple and red. Pro-
fessor Douglas Copland is booked to
give a few encouraging words.
Melbourne girls will have to look to
their laurels. This year has been remark-
able for the number of engagements and
marriages with girls from other States in -
the leading feminine role. Margaret Lay-
bourne-Smith,-of Adelaide, whose smiling
face has been pictured here by Dickinson-
Monteath, is one of the many youthful
inter-State figures who have become
linked with Victoria through romantic
alliances. Her engagement has been
announced to H. Bishop Dixon, of
Middle-crescent, Brighton, with whose
parents she is staying. Before settling
down Margaret hopes to be able to place
the letters M.A. after her name. She is
doing the Arts course at Adelaide Uni-
versity, and enjoys a spot of golf now
and then.
Dr. Georgina Sweet is home again
after her jaunt as leader of the Aus-
tralian delegation to the Pan-Pacific
Women’s Conference at Vancouver. In
recent years Dr. Sweet has travelled
much. The home of this wealthy bache-
lor woman at Balwyn is like a luxury
hostel, with a bathroom for every guest.
All the carpets were made to the owner’s
design, giving the visitor the impression
of walking upon a lawn strewn with
autumn leaves. Dr. Sweet has special-
ised in zoology, but these days she spends
more time in striving to bring about the
betterment of international understand-
ing than in scientific research.
A good-looking young Canadian, D. L.
Davies, a Bachelor of Science of the
McGill University, Montreal, has been
visiting Victoria as part of a travel
scholarship- tour which he scored
through being the best student of the
year. During his brief stay here he had
the opportunity of sampling country life.
He spent a few days at Kileen, Long-
wood, the station home of Campbell
Chomley, whose newly-wed daughter had
a nasty spill on her skis at Mt. Buffalo
a few days ago. This .Canadian savant
also had a happy time at the Smith sta-
tion, Yanga, Balranald. It was through
his dropping in and having a chat with
Mrs. Drexler, hostess at the Victorian
Tourist Bureau, that the station gates
were opened to this visitor.
The stork has been hovering above
Toorak. Just a week old is the daughter
born to Mr. and Mrs. Geoffrey Grim-
wade at Irving-road. In her maiden days
Mrs. Geoff (then Pye Stuart) and her
sister Nanette, now Mrs. Fred Gilder,
were the brightest sparks among the
bright young people. The brilliant dances
given at their picturesque old home,
Logan House, Toorak, were always the
gayest events of the social season. Mrs.
Leslie Stuart, grandma of the new arrival,
finds a secluded life more to her liking
these days, but there was a time when
her party menus were the talk of the
town. With Nanette’s David, Anthony
and Sarah the Leslie Stuart couple are
now the grandparents of four. The big
house at Toorak was disposed of after the
daughters settled, and mother and father
have found a comfortable possie for
themselves at Beaumaris.
Mrs. Zelman Schwartz, wife of the
young eye specialist, is a busy little
woman these days. Hubby, who still car-
ries his school nickname “Zac,” has
bought a new home in Mercer-road, Mal-
vern, one of those misleading places with
a cottage exterior and a luxury interior
and a dream of a garden overflowing
with old trees and flowering shrubs. Mrs.
Zac had to forego the trip to Adelaide
when her husband went across for the
Medical Conference because of daily
consultations with interior decorators.
She set off blithely full of bright ideas,
but soon found that she was in an ob-
stacle race. After much searching and
sorting, she sighted the carpet for which
she was looking, but, alas! there was not
enough of it to go round. Among the
treasures that will go into the new home
are some lovely china and pieces of old
furniture bequeathed by her grandfather,
John Buchanan, a notable collector.
The first woman to sign the visitors’
book in Ward-road gaol, Shanghai, which
was turned topsy-turvy last week through
fires and fighting, was Lynette Young, of
Chastleton-avenue, Toorak, in whose
quaint garden grow many plants from
various countries. In this quiet retreat
flourish dwarf trees from China and
irises from Japan. Her friendships link
with the two countries now at each
other’s throats. This idealist maintains
that between sincere gardeners there is a
sympathy and an understanding that over-
come class distinctions, national boun-
daries and language difficulties. She re-
members Ward-road prison as a place of
gloom outside, but with emerald-green
lawns behind the rugged blue-stoned
walls; a cheerful kitchen where she
sampled the dish that was being served
for dinner, soya-bean stew; and drug
addicts who were being treated as hos-
pital cases. Reform, not punishment,
seemed to be the slogan. The big surprise
that Shanghai held for this Australian
tourist was the number of white people
of British parentage born in this city who
had never seen a white man’s country.


Great Cough Remedy
Wonderful Money-saver.
For the last twenty years millions of
Australians have saved much money by
making their own family cough and
influenza remedy with HEENZO. It is
so easy to add a two-shilling bottle of
concentrated HEENZO to sweetened
water, and thus make a large supply
of cough remedy equal in quantity and
superior in quality to about £l’s worth
of the best of the ready-made-up
remedies for chest and throat ailments.
The purity of HEENZO makes it an ideal
cough remedy for Rabies as well as adults.
THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Thursday
Is the most popular 64-page woman’s
paper published in the Common-
wealth. It features everything a
woman ought to know. Once you
read it you will never be without it.
Its up-to-date weekly pattern is
free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd.,
252 George Street, Sydney.
You can’t
ignore 6AM
It is the ONLY STATION
that can give you com-
plete coverage of Western
Australia.
The ONLY STATION that
will sell your goods to
the farmer.
6AM
Prince’s Chambers,
William Street,
Perth,
Western Australia.
THE
II MITE INSURANCE
Ulll I EU COMPANY LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1862.
Head Office:
GEORGE 8 HUNTER STREETS. SYDNEY.
CAPITAL - - £1,000,000
All classes of Fire, Marine and
Accident Insurances effected at
Lowest Current Rates.
The “United” is an Australian Institution.
A. C. DAWSON,
Gen. Manager.
T. C. REYNOLDS,
Asst. Gen.- Manager.
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
“X.T.”: Strange how news value
changes with . the years. A Brisbane
paper devotes a long paragraph to the
case of a ten-year-old boy who actually
decided to walk 25 miles to Brisbane and
25 miles back in order to see the big city.
Even 30 years ago it was common for
us youngsters to walk 25 miles from Mt.
Morgan to Rockhampton, barefooted
and over a far worse road than that
from Ipswich to Brisbane. And when
the Dee Rush broke out it was usual for
us to walk four miles to school and four
miles back, and twice a week seven miles
out to the Rush and back. In an earlier
day hundreds of people, including
women, walked from the Ipswich district
to Brisbane. It is a bad lookout for the
leather trade when it becomes news that
somebody has used his legs for the pur-
pose for which they were intended.
<< * * *
“Gain”: Honors are bestowed in
Papua in an atmosphere which is unique
in Australasia. Listen to Hubert Murray
presenting the King’s Medal to the widow
of Sergeant Gabiri:
I want everyone to hear this talk. Gabiri
was a policeman for a long time. He was
the best policeman in all Papua. He had
been in plenty of fights. He was a brave
man. He always stood his ground. He
never ran away but always fought back.
The King heard about him and sent out
news that he was going to give him a
medal. But Gabiri died, so I wrote to the
King and asked him what I would do with
the medal. The King answered and said,
“Is Gabiri’s wife alive, and is she a good
woman?” I said, “Yes,” so the King said,
“Give the medal to his widow.” Now,
this is a very good medal and only a few
men have received it. Gabiri is the only
man in the whole of Papua to get one.
I wonder what would happen if it were
necessary for Governors to record the
merits of new knights in such orations.
* * * *
“X.T.”: Dead very suddenly —in
Arnhem Land, Smiler, a bold, bad man.
Smiler’s last year of life was a busy one.
First, with a mate, he left the native re-
serve and repaired to a peanut farm near
the Katherine, where he became enam-
ored of a dusky belle. So did the mate,
who was a little less battered by a life
of sin than Smiler —until Smiler settled
their difference by pushing a spear
through him. A policeman chased him
over half Arnhem Land without catching
him to answer for his last and four other
murders, mostly over the ladies. This
year the chase was renewed, but the
natives themselves proved quicker of
hand and eye than the law. A month
ago Smiler departed this life in a tribal
fight, scarcely regretted even by his
friends, since he had been the terror of
his associates.
* * * *
“Shamuseen”: Torres Strait natives,
like Maoris and some other Polynesians,
hold wakes over their dead. At a given
signal the assembled concourse, seated
on its collective haunches under the
coconut palms, gives vent to a sustained
heartrending howl, each striving to outdo
his neighbor in vociferous registration of
grief. Then a halt is called, the mourners
indulging in gossiping chit-chat, inane
gigglings and a series of cigarettes if
“sugar bah” is available. Then at a sign
wailing is recommenced. It is continued
for a period commensurate with the social
standing of the late-lamented, and then
the mourning period’s end is signalised
by communal feast as Gargantuan as the
volume of wailing.
* * * *
“Wai-Willum”: A further link with
William Landsborough, who while
searching for Leichhardt did valuable
exploratory work in Queensland, is fur-
nished by the gift to the Queensland
Museum of a stirrup used by him in his
travels. Landsborough was the first to
navigate the Norman River, in the Vic-
toria, in January, 1867. He chose the
site for Normanton, where high iron-
stone ridges came close to the river
bank. He was also first to enter the
Albert River, taking his horses up that
stream in the brig Firefly. He assisted
in the search for Burke and Wills in
1861.
* * * *
“Elsey”: The more sober side of
Darwin is chuckling over the rapid de-
velopment of local history since C. L. A.
Abbott became Administrator. For a
few weeks after his arrival labor-union
leaders hung on Mr. Abbott’s words and
promises, and the air was full of ex-
changes of goodwill. Even Mr. Nelson,
the former member for the Territory,
came in for a eulogy from the Adminis-
trator, which was repaid in kind. Then
the wharf strike arrived. Now the
Darwin newspaper is full of criti-
cism. Mr. Abbott has been bringing
police in from the bush—“provocative
measures which are another proof that
he is in a state of panic and totally un-
“Grandad ought t' cut out the smokin' —’e knows 'e's got a Weak 'eart."
suited to hold the position of Adminis-
trator.” And
Maybe the rumor going around that he
is about to emulate the late “Jock” Gil-
ruth is responsible for the hurried rush
of police to our peaceful port.
Jock was “deported.”
* * * *
“Passage Pilot”: On Whitsunday
Island the wild dogs have now reached
the stage of dog eat dog—all other
tucker has long since been devoured.
Those fellows are now evolving a new
form of living: they’re beachcombers of
the highest skill, and at low tides any-
thing that moves there is running a risk.
Even so, the dogs have a tough time.
So hungry are they that any visiting boat
is welcomed for scraps which may be
thrown ashore ; they swim out fearlessly
for bones, which are tossed overboard.
The time is not far distant when, if
the dogs increase, the man who sets foot
on Whitsunday had better keep an eye
on a climbable tree. The dogs, having
no foresight, are not only eating turtles’
eggs, but killing the turtles, and soon
that form of food will be wiped from
the menu. And the irony of it is that just
across a narrow passage, so alive with
predatory fish that no dog would have
a chance of shaking himself dry on the
other side, is Hook Island, alive with
wild goats and overrun with wallabies.
"Australia Jane's" Budget
The Show’s over, the Navy has de-
parted, and Brisbane now is trying to
catch up on sleep.
The annual at-home given by the Girls
was a huge success. It was held in the
old South Brisbane Technical College, a
spot which most of their mammas re-
member with sentimental feelings. But-
terflies and balloons, latticed streamers at
the windows and a stage which looked
like a conservatory were the decorations.
Poppies and larkspurs decked the supper
tables. The G.-G. and Lady Gowrie,
the latter in gold-embossed brocade,
James Blair and his lady (her frock was
of cyclamen, with matching cape), Col.
and Mrs. Tuxford Howe (she was
one of the De Burgh Persse girls, and
was married less than a year ago, since
when she has lived in India), Commander
and Mrs. E. C. Rhodes, Captain and
Mrs. J. U. P. Fitzgerald, Lord Ranfurly,
Captain H. G. Ackland, Captain Blacker,
Captain Palmer and Duncan Peirson
were in the official party, which was wel-
corned by a committee of 60 hostesses
who carried floral fans to harmonise with
their frocks.
The Bachelors chose a very bold color
scheme for the decorations of their
annual ball —red, green, yellow and black
streamers which formed a canopy, with
two central squares, bunches of streamers
and masks in similar colorings on the
walls, and masks in front of the foot-
lights on the stage. Lord and Lady
Gowrie, Sir Ernest and Lady Clarke,
lames Blair and his lady, with their aides,
were in the official party. Lady Gowrie
wore rose, banded with silver, and Lady
Clarke had borrowed the hues of the
violet.
First annual ball of the 9th-49th Bat-
talion drew over 300 people to Water-
street Drill Hall. Streamers of the bat-
talion colors and bowls of spring flowers
on the tables in the marquee where
supper was served provided a gay setting.
Lt.-Col. E. G. Radford and Mrs. Rad-
ford and Major O. 'A. Kessels received.
There was only one incident—a form on
which a pretty miss and her escort had
seated themselves suddenly collapsed.
Joan McLeod and Alan ' Reginald
Garner Bicknell were married at Terrica
(s.-w. Q.) last Wednesday. A few old
family friends made the trip to see the
knot tied. The flowers were sent up
from Toowoomba—masses of lovely
violets and daffodils. The bridal gown
was of white cloque, with silver and gold
threads woven into the fabric. A Juliet
cap was worn with the veil. Elspeth and
Dorothy McLeod were ’maids, in frocks
of daffodil yellow and gold Juliet caps.
At the at-home in H.M.A.S. Sydney
250 guests danced on the quarter-deck
and supped in the ship’s waist or the cap-
tain’s cabin. Capt. and Mrs. J. U. P.
Fitzgerald, Commander I. C. R. Mac-
donald and Lieut.-Commander A. E.
Buchanan received the guests. Mrs. Fitz-
gerald wore magnolia satin, with wing
sleeves lined with silver. Mrs. Buchanan
was in ivory ripple, and several other
naval ladies showed a preference for
cream and parchment shades.
Rotarians came from all over Aus-
tralia for the District Conference, and
besides listening to instructive lectures
managed to cram in a lot of social life.
They motored to Cleveland, where they
took boat and saw something of the
lovely islands that lie between Cleveland
and Stradbroke Island, had a luncheon
and ball and a motor trip to Mt.
Gravatt. At Sunnybank the cars
stopped long enough for the Rotarians to
take picnic tea with the Charles Elliots,
whose garden is a picture. Eric Scott,
president of Ipswich Rotary, arranged
an evening party at the Canberra, and
the sporting members were well catered
for with golf and tennis.
Dorothy Edna Reis, the first Queens-
land woman to win an air pilot’s certifi-
cate, was married to Frank Dodd at St.
Andrew’s C. of E., South Brisbane. Bride
is the eldest daughter of Mr. and Mrs.
T. H. Bishop, Kangaroo Point, and in-
herited her mechanical ability from her
father, who was one of the motor
pioneers of the north and west, and also
one of the first to realise the possibili-
ties of commercial aviation. In her
teens Mrs. Reis ran the passenger car
from Charleville through Augathella to
Tambo, when the men drivers had suc-
cumbed to ’flu. With Dr. Lillian Cooper
she shares the honor of being one of
the first two women to drive a motor-car
in Queensland.
Billy Unmack, who left Queensland for
the U.S.A. some years ago, and made
good in the newspaper world there, is
visiting Brisbane with his wife. Billy
arrived in Sydney a week or so ago, just
in time to see his mother, Mrs. Theodore
Unmack, who died a few days later.
The Unmacks were one of Brisbane’s
best-known families.


OUT WITH OLD-FASHIONED TOOTH PASTES
The New PEPSODENT
alone contains IRIUM which thrillingly
steps-up lustre on teeth
m
M.
o fi
'ce
e PSi
S °4l>
e nr
C() t)
1 9.
er >tl
l\lO
,r >st
e <?</
'iii-
tit
on-
°ot
DOUBLE THE THRILL
or DOUBLE YOUR MONEY BACK
If Pepsodent doesn’t show up any other tooth paste you ever used... bar none!
The new Pepsodent alone contains
Irium, the spectacular new lustre
discovery.
It works on a totally new and
unique principle. It dissolves film
on teeth with a wonderfully swift
but gentle action.
The new Pepsodent, because of
Irium, thrillingly steps-up lustre on
teeth. Yet it is doubly safe because
it contains no pumice, no grit!
Doubly delightful because it con-
tains no chalk, no soap!
The New PEPSODENT alone
contains IRIUM
IRIUM is the secret of its amazing
polishing power, its phenomenal
cleansing action, and the reason why
it gives teeth double lustre with
double safety.
Double Your Money Back
Try the New Pepsodent Tooth
PEPSODENT
The Special Film-Removing Toofh Paste
THE 2/- SIZE IS THE MOST ECONOMICAL
THE PEPSODENT CO. (AUST.) PTY. LTD.
(INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA)
Paste, and if, in your opinion, it
does not give you Double the thrill,
Double the safety and Double the
delight of any tooth paste you ever
used—bar none—we will give you
Double your money back.
Just post the partially used tube to
The Pepsodent Co. (-Aust.) Pty.
Ltd., Melbourne, and we will send
you double what you paid plus
postage.
High-Polish Your Teeth FREE
This coupon entitles you to a
free generous supply of the new
Super-Soft High-Polish Pepso-
dent Tooth Paste. Just mail
to the Pepsodent Co. '(Aust.)
Pty. Ltd., Dept. No. 4. Box
488 G. Melbourne, C.I.
Name
Address...
City
AU7373D.
.State.
Personal and Missing Friends.
ANDERSON.—If MRS. HELEN ANDER-
SON, formerly HELEN SANDERSON, of
Sheerness, England (or her daughter
DOROTHY ANDERSON), will communicate
with E. H. GLYNNE ROBERTS, 29-30 High
Holborn, London, W.CJ, Solicitor, she will
hear of something to her advantage.
WILL KITTY MONAGHAN or KITTY VAN-
STEIN, sister of the late Leonard Vanstein,
who died on the 21st April, 1937, formerly of
Ormond, Gisborne, New Zealand, or anyone
knowing her whereabouts, communicate with
the DISTRICT MANAGER, Public Trust
Office, Rotorua.
Re ELLEN COPE, late of 134 Franchise
Street, Wednesbury, England (late wife of
Henry Cope), deceased.
WILL CLAUDE MILLINGTON (son of
Joseph Millington), born at Kings Hill, Wed-
nesbury, Staffs, England, and late of 167 Dudley
Port, Tipton, Staffs, and last known to have
left England for Perth, Australia, about 15 years
ago, and to have resided at Bluff Point, Gerald-
ton, 12 Snowdon Street, Geraldton, and at Perth
(about seven years ago), please communicate
with ARTHUR COTTERELL, 9 The Bridge,
Walsall, England, Solicitor for the executors of
the will of the abovenamed deceased, when he
will learn of something to his advantage.
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 787 of 1937.
BETWEEN CATHERINE NASH Petitioner
And JOHN NASH Respondent
TO JOHN NASH of Sydney in the State of
New South Wales Miner.
TAKE NOTICE that the said CATHERINE
NASH has commenced a suit against you in
this Honorable Court and is applying for a dis-
solution of marriage on the grounds that you
have without just cause or excuse wilfully de-
serted the Petitioner and without any such cause
or excuse left her continuously so deserted
during three years and upwards AND TAKE
NOTICE that you are required to enter an
appearance to the said suit at the proper office
of this Honorable Court on or before the.
Eighteenth day of November One thousand
nine hundred and thirty-seven and in the event
of your not doing so within the time limited or
obtaining further time the Petitioner will pro-
ceed and the suit be heard and determined your
absence notwithstanding. A copy of the petition
filed herein may be had on application to the
undersigned solicitor free of charge.
DATED this Nineteenth day of August, One
thousand nine hundred and thirty-seven.
For the Registrar,
(L.s.) E. F. LENNON,
Clerk in Divorce.
J. BIRNIE JACKSON, Solicitor for the
Petitioner, Mercantile Mutual Building, 117 Pitt
Street, Sydney.
The best
SAFEGUARD
against
COLDS. FLU,
WHOOPING
COUGH and
CATARRH!
Each year these ailments take their
toll of adults and children, and unless
care is taken to fortify the system,
bodily resistance becomes less, with
the result that more serious diseases
obtain a foothold. It is truly said
that a well-nourished body is the best
protection against illness, and the cer-
tain way to secure this is a course of
Roboleine at intervals throughout the
year. Roboleine is the best protective
and strengthening food, rich in natural
vitamins. A teaspoonful three times
a day supplies the body with that
extra nourishment which tones up
the system and increases resistance to
epidemic diseases.
Roboleine is made in England
ķ
k
ķ
ROBOLEINE
The best protective and
health restoring food
, s« ee Y,
. *l9 e “ ot .*®V V *
vi»' 1 4 t t i e «» eVo * e
*/s>*'•
S.B
THE LITTLE SISTERS.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
At the exhibition of hobbies arranged
in connection with the Medical Congress,
on view in the Darling Building, it was
proved that the Adelaide women medicoes
make good use of their leisure moments.
Dr. Gertrude Halley showed a hand-
beaten brass wood-box of her own de-
sign. Dr. Rica Hubbe and Dr. Helen
Mayo’s exhibits were beautiful examples
of tapestry. Dr. Joan Welch showed
embroidery, knitting, water-color paint-
ing and cookery.
The seating capacity of the refectory
at the University looked to be due for
a strain when the council entertained the
600 delegates to the Medical Congress
at afternoon-tea, but the weather was
fine, so tea tables were set out on the
lawn in the cloisters. All round the hall
were bowls of pink peach-blossom, and
pink sweet-peas and pink carnations
beautified the tea tables.
The same afternoon Dr. and Mrs. Rex
Matters gave a five-o’clock at-home for
inter-State visitors. The three reception-
rooms were a blaze of flowers.
Henry Newland and his lady staged
their party for members of the con-
gress in the Town Hall. The stage was
banked with white and gold flowers,
which partly concealed the orchestra.
Supper was served in the banqueting
room, white urns filled with peach-
blossom were set round the walls and
pink sweet-peas were used to decorate
the tables. In the matter of color the
men present, all wearing their academic
robes, quite eclipsed the women. Professor
Grey Turner (England) wore grey and
crimson on his red gown. Professor
A. E. V. Richardson added a vivid
green. The Bishop of Adelaide was an-
other decorative figure. Scarlet robes
caught the eye at every turn.
Others who entertained the medical
visitors were Dr. and Mrs. Frank Will-
cox, who gave a late-afternoon party at
their beautiful home, Medindie, and the
Hudd lady, who entertained a number
of the doctors’ better-halves at luncheon
at her home in Glenelg. Mrs. L. G.
Muirhead and Mrs. Ray Kenihan
motored a party of the visitors to
Glenelg, where they lunched at the St.
Vincent, and afterwards had afternoon-
tea at the Mount Osmond Country Club.
Mrs. K. C. Wilson was hostess at after-
noon-tea for the congress folk at Car-
minnow, Mount Lofty, the country home
of her grandfather, Langdon Bonython.
The same evening there was a huge
congress dinner in John Martin’s dining-
room, when 600 were entertained.
WESTRALIA.
The Cameron Highlanders turned up
in force, resplendent in kilt and sporran,
at their inaugural ball at the Embassy.
Commanding-Officer Louch and official
guests were piped to their box, and the
pipes were unleashed again for the “Gay
Gordons” and the eightsome reel. Mrs.
Charles Courtney, in a mist of hyacinth-
blue tulle, trod a lightsome measure with
her Major. Medical Officer Pannell
swirled a tartan plaidie beside blush-
pink, lace-clad wife, and Mrs. John
Barrett buckled her ivory satins to match
her husband’s shoe garniture ; Mrs. R.
Rosenthal, of Melbourne, collared blue
lacquered satin with silver sequins; Mrs.
McColl pinned a spray of violets to
one shoulder of her silver and violet
striped lame, and Major Lloyd steered
his wife’s Venetian chiffon drapings
through the throngs.
Many guests sipped and chatted with
the Felix Demerys when Linley Wilson,
spearing a scarlet feather through her
navy hat brim and belting her navy
woollens with green and scarlet suede,
poured cocktails in her flower-decked
studio. Mrs. Demery held a presentation
posy of hyacinths and daphne against
fur-trimmed green angora suitings and
waxed enthusiastic over Australian wild-
flowers. Enthusiasts flocked to the
Myola Club later in the week when Mr.
Demery, who has come to Australia to
conduct examinations for the Royal
Academy of Dancing, collaborated with
his previous hostess and her pupils in a
lecture-demonstration dealing with classi-
cal ballet.
Members of the C.W.A. have been
busily conferring and debating the 40-
odd items on their agenda. Mrs. Archie
Burt, retiring president, opened proceed-
ings, then handed the staff of office to
Mrs. W. Hearman, whose scientifically-
minded daughter, Dr. Joan, delves into
research for the Forestry Department.
Mrs. Hubert Fairfax, vice-president of
the World C.W.A., arrived from Sydney
in time to speechify eloquently at the
business sessions, and to occupy the box
seat at Mrs. Archie Burt’s morning-tea
party at the Karrakatta Club.
Members of Perth’s first night-club, the
Miami, flocked to dine and dance in its
handsome suite of rooms in National
House on the opening night. Tropical
palms in profusion and subdued golden
lighting backgrounded the midnight-blue
laces of Mrs. Alan Thompson, wife of
the chairman. Secretary L. L. Dewar
piloted Mrs. Dewar’s phosphorescent
lame in the intervals of showing people
over the clubrooms, and Mrs. Ray Cock-
burn twirled in floating leaf-green
chiffons.
The Kindergarten Union raked in
shekels by a week’s frenzied activity.
Two highly-successful efforts were Violet
Day, which brought a bevy of bright
young toilers in the cause of charity
on to the Terrace to rattle a box and
beguile businessmen, and a beauty
parade staged for two days in Boan’s
fashion lounge by Thelma Besant. The
mannequins included Mrs. Ambrose,
June Perry, Viola Bathgate, Dulcie
Allen and Flora Lethbridge.
September weddings are legion this
year. Dorothy Mosey, soon to become
Mrs. Dick Gibbs, is guest at many bride-
elect parties. She wrapped herself in
befurred and flowing velvet coat for Mil-
dred le Soeuf’s theatre party at the Royal
and cosy supper round log fires at the
Adelphi. Flora Bunning gathered musi-
cal friends at her Mosman Bay home,
and the Bruce Hunts shook cocktails
before the doctor departed conference-
bound.
Flora Shaw dispensed with conven-
tional bridal raiment when she partnered
Hugh Whittaker in a matrimonial two-
some at Christ Church, Claremont. They
left by train for a Melbourne honey-
moon complete with golf sticks. Another
bride who decided against flowing satins
and tulle was Helen Vincent, of Pepper-
mint Grove, who kept a tryst in Lon-
don with Herbert Knopf at a Knights-
bridge registry office, prior to holidaying
in Bavaria.
TASMANIA.
The University Ball list quite over-
flowed the Uni. library accommodation,
so the dance was held at the Continental.
The social committee included C. M.
Dennis, J. D. Bushby, J. M. Crisp and
J. P. Wood. The Chancellor and Mrs.
Stops shed the light of their counten-
ances on the party, but, apart from offi-
cial brass-hats, nearly all the guests were
very young. Frocking was gay and
pretty, and spring blossoms of every sort
made the rooms bright.
The Governor and Lady Clark have
gone to Northern Queensland to get some
warmth into their bones. They expect
to be away till the second week in Sept.
Hobart Rep. Soc. provided a pleasant
evening’s entertainment by broadcasting
an old play, “Speed the Plough,” the first
piece to be performed 100 years ago
when our Theatre Royal was opened.
Apart from the amusing melodramatic
style and situations, the historic interest
was great. A good audience enjoyed the
show, and perhaps the ghosts of Mrs.
Scott Siddons, Amy Sherwin, lima de
Murska, Joseph Jeffisson and others who
had walked the old theatre’s boards hov-
ered among them unseen.
The Guy Mackinnons gave a tea-party
for Jessie Nicolson, of Campbell Town,
before her wedding with Sam Wigan,
which is to be in the near future. Mollie
and Dorothy Mackinnon helped their
mother do the honors, and about 40
guests turned up, each armed with a cup
and saucer, a gift to the chief guest.
Forty-three years’ service is the record
of Mrs. Percy Hart (Launceston) with
the Ministering Children’s League. She
has also been interested in hosts of other
social-service jobs, but realises that the
time has come now for her retirement.
The Trevor Jameses have left New
Norfolk and are settling in Queenstown.
Dr. C. O’Toole takes Dr. James’s place
at Lachlan Park.
Novelist G. B. Lancaster is settled
down at Swansea while writing a new
book. At its finish she goes to M.L. and
thence to England.


THE NATIONAL BANK OF NEW ZEALAND
LIMITED
BALANCE SHEET AS AT 31st MARCH, 1937
Authorised Capital
LIABILITIES.
£
s. d.
£6,000,000
Paid Up Capital 2,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund .... _.. 1,000,000 0 0
Currency Reserve .... .... 500,000 0 0
Deposit and Current Accounts 13,751,541 6 3
Bills Payable and other Liabilities,
and Provision for Doubtful Debts
and other Contingencies .... 1,488,644 11 2
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT:
Net Profit for Year .. 102,837 12 8
Balance at Ist April, 1936 113,959 6 9
£216,796 19 S
Less:—
Interim Dividend £40,000
Pension and Gratu-
ity Funds .. 14,000
Premises .. « 10,000
64,000 0 0
Balance of Profit and Loss Account 152,796 19 5
£18,892,982 16 10
ASSETS.
NOTE.—The New Zealand and Australian assets and liabili-
ties are included at the par rates of exchange and the net
difference which would have arisen had they been con-
verted at the rates ruling at the date of the Balance Sheet
is covered by the Currency Reserves.
The Long White Cloud
Airing the “Facts”
The Savage Government last year in-
troduced Maorilanders to Parliamentary
broadcasts, which were received without
any general evidence of wild enthusiasm.
But a few political-minded people, pre-
vented by distance and work from seeing
and hearing a Parliament in session, sent
Prime Minister Savage some fan mail ;
and these letters constitute his excuse for
a present intention to “make greater use
of the radio service in broadcasting Par-
liament.”
The radio extension is to go further
than Parliament.
We are going to use it to provide the
facts for the people; not only of legis-
lative but also of administrative character.
We will tell the people what is happening
from week to week. We will, for instance,
put over the air facts about various State
departments and tell listeners what they
are doing. If we supply the evidence with-
out comment we will have done our duty.
It may be that the recently-appointed
Government publicity officer will inter-
pret these facts for the rrticrophone. But,
as a press agent, his first duty is to get
“good” publicity for his boss —in this
case, the Government. This doesn’t mean
that Maorilanders won’t get facts; it may
mean that they will get only such radio
facts as Labor advisers believe will be
good for Labor as well as for listeners.
For Labor has only one weekly paper
to carry its message, and nearly every
Maoriland daily, while sticking to fair
news reports, runs editorial comment ad-
verse to the present Government. But
it is as easy for a shrewd script-writer
to arrange his facts with a slant as it is
for a practised editorial-writer to alter
the arrangement and the slant. The ordi-
nary Maorilander? He still retains his
political—and radio programme—prefer-
ences.
“Fergus”: Bang go the ingredients of
another “hot” newspaper story! The
Canton Island “naval incident” never
happened ; tidal difficulties and not a
presumption of possession prevented the
American warship from “moving over to
make room” for the later Maoriland
arrival, says the leader of the Maori-
land scientists who went to Canton. In
fact, “members of the American crew
extended every aid in safely anchoring
the British ship, and a friendly spirit
prevailed between the two expeditions
at all times.” Nor did the Americans
erect a plinth to proclaim American an-
nexation ; their plinth was “merely com-
memorative of the visit of the solar
eclipse party, and in memory of great
scientists.” A vastly different tale from
the one cabled round the world by a
Maoriland press recently flattered on its
“non-sensational” columns by nearly
nearly every New Education Fellowship
visitor.
* *
“Kohi”: Apropos first-class Maoriland
aerodromes (B. 18/8/’37), Blenheim de-
serves mention. Thousands of pounds
have been spent on enlarging the landing
area at this ’drome, and, with the final
levelling-off and sowing with grass of
its 160 acres, Blenheim will have run-
ways varying in length from 1200 yards
to 850 yards. The 10-year-old Marl-
borough Aero Club has been largely re-
sponsible for the development of this
field. When it began operations it turned
an old shed into a hangar for six
machines, but now it has up-to-date
ground facilities, a growing membership
and the financial confidence of different
local bodies.
* * * *
“Mak”: If Maori Princess Te Puea
accepts her invitation to the N. S. Wales
150th anniversary celebrations, Sydney
will meet a woman whose influence has
already done a great deal to mould the
future of her people. Steeped in the
spiritual lore of the old Maoris, she
doesn’t shut her eyes to the fact that the
Maori’s future happiness depends on his
ability to adapt himself to modern
pakeha life, and in the communal de-
velopment of tribal holdings, as provided
for by native land-development plans,
she saw a chance to ally native tradition
with modern farming practice. The prin-
cess’s example inspired Maori leaders in
other parts of the country, and the plans
have been widely adopted. At her
Ngaruawahia pah, she has gathered old
native craftsmen who are to-day teaching
younger Maoris the secrets of carving
and canoe-building; the carving is being
done on “King” Koroki’s new house and
the canoe-chipping on three totara-trees
that Sydney may see as a war-canoe with
100 brawny paddlers.
“M.”: Although book-banning causes
less annoyance in Maoriland than in
Australia, the censors follow Australian
precedent by refusing booksellers, writers
or readers any list of banned titles. But
they are democratic enough to risk giv-
ing a reason for this reticence; the list
is withheld, they say, because the pub-
lishers concerned might reissue some of
the books under new titles. This fear of
extra work is quite unfounded, as most
"Paris says a two-piece costume is always fashionable."
Maoriland authors could prove by pub-
lishers’ letters; the Maoriland book
market isn’t that valuable to English and
American publishing houses. Anyhow,
the same black-list secrecy is an annoy-
ance to the different censors; it fre-
quently happens that a book banned by
one official may sell freely in other
centres before the censors there are aware
of the ban. But, because the Savage
Government allows its censorship to
operate on liberal principles and makes
no attempt to impose its own political,
religious or literary standards, Maori-
land writers and readers have little cause
for complaint. Booksellers would like
current black-lists to obviate the risks of
importing forbidden titles; and there is
no good reason why such lists shouldn’t
be made public.
“Kiwit”: National afforestation is one
good Labor Government method of pro-
viding work, and another 22,000 acres
have just been set aside for tree-plant-
ing in the Bay of Plenty. Erosion in
Maoriland is different from that in parts
of Australia and the United States; soil
slips away instead of blowing away.
There is more rain, the country is more
hilly and the soil is heavier; but from
many Maoriland roads travellers can
see the great hillside scars that tell of
earth-slides after the last rains. Bay of
Plenty country varies from rich coastal
acres devoted to dairying and citrus
farming, to poor, hilly and “cattle-sick”
farms left to weeds and undergrowth
since their last owners walked off during
the depression. The same sort of land
grows good trees, and most of it is within
fairly easy access of the several centres
where sawmills are being erected to cut
pines from the State and company-owned
forests round Rotorua.
* * * *
“Korero”: Establishment of a Wake-
field museum in Christchurch (M.L.) is a
centenary suggestion finding favor with
descendants of the 717 Canterbury pil-
grims who reached Maoriland by the
“First Four Ships” of 1850. The pil-
grims represented Edward Gibbon Wake-
field’s “slice of English society,” but the
cathedral city they founded has nc
memorial to the idealist responsible far
the mass migration. Seven of the 717
still live, and there are a few other
ancients who were actually settled with
their parents before the pilgrims arrived.
Descendants now extend into the fifth
generation, and their elders’ association
wishes to preserve family records and
keep the younger people interested in the
details of early struggles and the for-
tunes of the families concerned. One
of the few other Maoriland towns where
this could be achieved as easily as in
Christchurch is New Plymouth, where in-
terest in the offspring of the early arrivals
has been kept alive for nearly a century.
The beards of some of the original ad-
venturers would have wagged until they
became more thirsty than usual had they
guessed that, in less than 100 years, their
children - would have invested them with
an aura of social significance.
* * * *
“Waitot”: Mines Minister Webb
seems to be one of the few Maorilanders
who still regard with favor the putting
of money in local oil possibilities—the
public’s money. He told New Plymouth
the other day that, unless operating com-
panies were prepared to use the most
modern appliances in their search for oil,
he wouldn’t hesitate to ask the Govern-
ment for anything from £lOO,OOO to
£1,000,000 to spend on the work. He
added, thoughtlessly:
We have a bill to come down which pro-
vides that if oil is discovered it will be-
long to the people of this country and to
no company; but every assistance will be
given the companies prepared to drill for
oil!
Next day his department rescued him
with the explanation that State owner-
ship of potential oil resources didn’t
imply State monopoly of the actual pro-
duction of oil; merely that the land
where any gusher is tapped will revert
to the State to avoid “exorbitant claims
by private property-owners for the value
of the oil found under their ground”!


"RADIO”
The world-wide technical
authority of amateur, short-
wave and' experimental radio.
Subscriptions are 18/6 per year in
Australia, acceptable at “The Bulletin”
Office, 252 George Street, Sydney.
“Radio” is published monthly in Los
Angeles (U.S;A.) under date as of
the following month; 10 issues yearly,
including special annual number; the
August and September issues (which
would normally appear in July and
August) are omitted.
Copies are mailed to subscribers direct
from U.S.A.
Read “Radio” regularly and keep in
advance of the times.
“Radio” is the fastest selling of all
radio magazines—on the bookstall
to-day, sold out to-morrow.
Subscribe direct and be sure of
your copy!
RADIO NEWS.
Radiotron 302 Barretter
Tobe.
DON B. KNOCK'S PAGES.
The problem of A.C.-D.C. receivers
has from the first been a difficult one.
In U.S.A., where 110-volt supply is
usual and where practically all mains
supplies are between 110 and 125 volts,
the problem is entirely different from that
in Australia, where there is a fairly wide
range of voltages, with, in many cases,
pronounced fluctuation. Australian volt-
ages are all between 200 and 260 volts,
therefore eliminating the necessity for
voltage doubling as used in U.S.A. A
minimum voltage of 200 can be applied,
through a filter system incorporating the
field coil of the loudspeaker as a choke,
to the plate of the power pentode valve.
This method is simple to adopt; the
number of components in the filter cir-
cuit is a minimum, and the voltage applied
to the power valve is sufficiently high to
obtain ample power output.
There has, however, always been a
difficulty in the use of the 0.3 amp.
series of valves in that a suitable Bar-
retter —a resistance lamp, the resistance
varying with the current flowing through
it, so that when the current tends to in-
crease the resistance increases much more
rapidly arid the current is kept con-
stant —was not available. In an A.C.-
D.C. receiver the heaters of all valves
are connected in series so that a voltage
of approximately 70 volts is required for
a five-volt set. The difference between
the 75 volts required by the heaters of
the valves and the voltage actually avail-
able from the mains must be dropped
through some resistance device.
It has been usual to employ a fixed re-
sistor with two or more tappings to suit
various supply voltages so that an
approximately correct voltage could be
applied to the heaters. This method,
while satisfactory in cases where the
mains voltage is constant and where cor-
rect tapping is available, gives trouble
when used with badly fluctuating mains
supply voltages. Valves should always
be operated with the correct voltage
applied to their heaters or filaments, es-
pecially in an A.C.-D.C. receiver: it is
necessary to consider the valves in terms
of the current flowing through the
heaters rather than the voltage across
one heater. Since most of the resistance
and therefore most of the voltage drop
is not across the heaters but across the
dropping resistor, the current and voltage
drop are proportional. The tolerance in
current of a valve heater i$ plus or
minus 6 p.c., which means that the cur-
rent of a 0.3 amp. valve should never
increase above 0.318 or drop below 0.282
amp. A tolerance of 10 p.c. is permiss-
ible when the heaters are connected in
parallel, since under these conditions a
10 p.c. change of voltage only produces
a 6 p.c. change of current, the heater
not obeying Ohm’s law.
The problem in an A.C.-D.C. receiver
is therefore to keep the heater current
of the valves within a tolerance of 6 p.c.
under any conditions of mains supply
voltages. This can be done successfully
only when an automatic device is used,
and a Barretter is the simplest solution.
A.W. Valve Co. announces the Radio-
tron type 302, now available at 14s. 6d.
It has a range of voltage drop between
112 and 195 volts, and the current flow-
ing through it is 0.3 amp. Mechanically
and electrically it is ideal for A.C.-D.C.
receivers.
Outline and dimensions are shown in
the drawing. The overall dimensions
are 5 5-16 in. by and an Edison
screw base is employed. A standard
Edison screw socket (as used for electric
lamps) provides good electrical contact
and mechanical support.
A 43 power pentode should be used
in conjunction to permit power output
practically identical with that given by
most A.C. receivers. As a rectifier
Radiotron 25Z5 is recommended with a
resistance of 100 ohms in series with each
plate, and with the two units connected
in parallel. With this arrangement a per-
missible D.C. current of up to 170 ma.
may be drawn, sufficient for any normal
applications while giving an ample margin.
A suggested valve combination is:
Converter .. .. .. • • 6A7
I.F. amplifier and diode detector
with A.V.C. .. .. ■ • 687 S
Audio .. .. • • • • 6C6
Power output with series inverse
feedback ... .. .. 43
Rectifier .. .. .. • • 25Z5
Barretter .. .. • • • • 302
V.C.
Vibrator B-supply
Considerations.
The radio user where there is no 240-
volt power-line convenient is entirely de-
pendent on batteries for power. If
charging facilities are available, whether
by accumulator or from the home supply,
the method of obtaining plate-voltage
supply from a vibratory unit is the
answer to the problem.
It is necessary that the plate voltage
be stepped up from a six-volt source, so
that 135 volts or more is available at the
receiver. Since direct current cannot be
stepped up in the way that alternating
current can be “transformed,” it is neces-
sary to change the direct current from
the accumulator to alternating current so
that it may be increased to the desired
voltage level. This is accomplished by
means of a vibrator; usually of the
“buzzer” type. With the aid of the
vibrator the battery gives a constantly
interrupted direct current which can be
stepped up by a suitable transformer to
the desired voltage. This A.C. voltage
is then fed to the rectifier. The voltage is
then passed through the filter to produce
direct current of high voltage, and this
is obtained at any desired voltage level
within limits from a tapped voltage
divider across the output. Also, this
divider serves as a safety device for keep-
ing a constant load on the vibrator in
case the load is disconnected from the
output whilst in operation.
The writer recently tested a Radiokes
vibrator B-supply on several receivers
and found it ideal for application to
existing receivers, and also for use by
the constructional experimenter. It con-
sists of two units —the main VB-10 vibra-
tor and the VDU voltage divider unit. It
serves well for the battery receiver where
constant voltage and trouble-free opera-
tion are the main considerations, and
produces 135 volts at 40ma.
Because of the filter design, silent
operation is one of the main features, and
hum from the interrupter has been elimi-
nated, leaving a pure D.C. voltage output
which compares excellently with battery
supply, even on short waves.
The unit is designed for Class-B
operation also, and very good current
regulation is obtained between 15ma. and
30ma. It can be used with all makes and
sizes of battery receivers, and is simple
to instal, being connected to a receiver
in a few minutes by connecting the
orange-colored lead from the unit to the
A plus of a six-volt accumulator, and by
inserting a switch in series between the
A minus and the outside braid. This
switch should of course be kept “OFF”
until the output connections are com-
pleted. The rest is easy enough. The
colored leads from the unit indicate
various voltages—yellow, B negative ;
violet, B plus 45 ; green, B plus ;
black, B plus 90; and red, B plus 135.
These voltages give ample latitude for
almost any receiver within a 135-volt
range, but if necessary the clips can be
adjusted to any voltage desired.
D.B.K.
Modernising Regeneration
Control.
The screen-grid regenerative detector
is a popular method of increasing the
overall gain of small two- and three-
valve receivers. The basic circuit for
this type of detector usually follows that
set out in Fig. 1. It gives sensitivity and
trouble-free operation over broadcast
and short-wave spectra.
With the development of indirectly-
heated valves and the application of
pentode construction to R.F. types,
electron-coupled detectors became popu-
lar. These offer almost all the ad-
vantages of the older set-ups plus a
lower “frequency drift” characteristic in
the reaction control. Fig. 2 shows the
same coil system with new connections.
The point “P” in the original which was
connected to plate is now earthed, and
at the other end of the regeneration coil
the condenser is dispensed with and the
lead taken to cathode. Any earth wire
Figure 1.
Figure 2.
formerly on the cathode lug should, of
course, be removed.
This method of improving the regen-
eration of the receiver provides an easy
transition from the old to the new
system. Once the coil connections on
the socket have been altered new coils
may be made at leisure and made to
follow the true electron-coupling system
—a common tuning and regeneration
coil with the cathode lead coming off
as shown in the dotted line at “X.” A
potentiometer wired into the screen cir-
cuit becomes the reaction control, and
should be supplied with about 50 or 60
volts from the voltage divider. The mov-
ing arm should be by-passed with lmfd.
in order that clicks and rustling noises
during operation may be eliminated.
A typical receiver in which the altera-
tion was made had extra pep, using
the old coils in the new connection. Re-
action windings in some cases were
reduced to as little as a quarter of their
former size. Although this occurred on
the lower frequency coils, and particu-
larly on the broadcast coil, the reverse
was true of the 20- and 10-metre wind-
ings. In both the latter cases, however,
when the change was made to the dotted-
line connection, results were greatly
improved, and reaction was much easier
to obtain and handle.
VK6WZ.
Radio Comment.
“Forga”: Touching the operating
ability of the present-day amateur,
there are many who can accurately
send and receive code at 15 or
more words per minute, but the
tendency among new license-holders is
to sit back, patiently waiting for the six
months’ probation to end, after which
telegraphy is rarely used again. In one
instance to my knowledge, the operator
certainly cannot send or receive 12
w.p.m. Much could be done to improve
the standard by a little practice. Any-
body can learn to send and receive with
perseverance.
[There can be no dodging by keeping
silent during the probationary period. The
R.l.’s Department now rules that the log
must be shown as proof of a certain
minimum number of contacts. If un-
satisfactory, a further probationary
period will be imposed. Finally, the
applicant will be checked on code whilst
actually in communication with another
station. By such means it is hoped to
improve the Standard of telegraphic
operation among new licensees. —D.B.K.]
Jfc * %
“Querex”: There is very little really
new in radio. To-day most receivers are
superhets, and most people think of the
principle as a post-war development.
Yet it was invented and patented in
1913 by Major Armstrong, of U.S.A.
The modern low current or “dull-
emitter” valve, such an advance on the
greedy types of 1920, is really only a
modification of a valve of pre-war days
which made use of a lime-coated fila-
ment running below red heat. The great-
est field for progress is offered in the
ultra-high frequencies. Television has
given an impetus in this direction, but
the big snag is to obtain efficient R.F.
amplification at the very high end of
the radio spectrum.
* * * *
“Hawkeye”: Showing at a Television
Exhibition in the London Science
Museum is a working model of the
cathode-ray tube of a G.E.C. television
receiver. It demonstrates how the in-
visible electric cathode-ray beam is shot
from the “gun” and is focused to build
up the picture on the tube screen at the
end of the large glass bulb. The scan-
ning beam, which normally travels to-
ward the screen at something like 670
million miles per hour, is shown in slow
motion, and alongside the model an
actual cathode-ray tube is arranged as in
a television receiver. Variations of
currents and voltages to the tube elec-
trodes can be observed on a number of
meters simultaneously with the effects
on the tube screen.
What's What in Radio.
Latest radio license figures for the
Commonwealth of Australia show a total
of 951,585. Experimental licenses
number 1752.
* * * *
Radio licenses in force in M.L. on
June 30 last totalled 258,324, including
255,434 receivers (listeners), 1212 dealers.
975’experimental (amateur and research)
and 683 free licenses granted to blind
people —a growth of 49,555 for the year.


TURN THE DIAE ON
RADIO’S GREATEST ACHIEVEMENT—
The Mid-Season Models of
THE 1937 ULTIMATE RADIO
THE GOLDEN VOICE OF THE AIR.
Writ© for full particulars to
George Brown & Company Pty., Etd.
Electrical & Industrial Engineers,
267 Clarence Street, Sydney.
’Phone: M 254 Dines.
Sole Australian Concessionaires.
It is estimated that 72 per cent, of house-
holds are now equipped with radio
receivers.
* * * *
Britain’s huge annual show at Radio-
lympia this year set aside 16 rooms for
television manufacturers, each of whom
ran his own demonstrations. Nine tele-
vision sessions daily were broadcast by
the 8.8. C. station at Alexandra Palace.
# * * *
Special tests of micro-wave trans-
mitters in France gave unexpected success
in aircraft. The transmitters were tried
in all-metal ’planes where previous tests
had shown that the metal structure
affected the efficiency of radio apparatus.
* * * #
The Science Museum in South Ken-
sington, London, has added considerably
to its attractions by opening a large-
scale television exhibition. There are
two sections, one containing historical
and scientific exhibits, and the other for
demonstrations of types of receivers now
on the English market.
* t- * *
“W.”: Some Australian radio manu-
facturers have asked for heavy addi-
tional rates or a positive embargo on the
importation of all-metal valves. So far,
these are not made in Australia,
and it is claimed that glass-type
valves produced here have the same
electrical characteristics as the Ameri-
can metal types. This may be so,
but metal valves call for no extra metallic
screening by an external can, and their
small size has many advantages. To-day,
every advanced American receiver is
using metal valves exclusively. Such
valves should be made here.
Amateur Chatter.
The N.Z.A.R.T. is endeavoring to
secure permission for ZLs to use tele-
phony on 20 metres. The P.M.G. is
considering interference to reception of
The top portion of the ultra-short-wave beam aerial arrange-
ment at VK2NO. The cartwheel is merely a foundation.
The mast rotates in a ball-bearing with another clamped
around the mast just below the aerial frame, with steadying
guys attached. The drive wheel is an old wooden car wheel,
grooved to take the rope drive.
short-wave broadcasts on adjacent bands,
particularly where all-wave sets are
popular; interference with commercial
services owing to incorrect operation, and
the fact that a large percentage of ama-
teurs experimenting with telephony on
the present authorised domestic bands
ignore telegraphy, with the result that
their value to the State in time of need
is lost. A proficient key man is not likely
to be found helpless in a sudden emerg-
ency where Morse code communication
may be essential.
Credit is due to the secretary and presi-
dent of W.I.A. (N.S.W. Division) for
their efforts in connection with the re-
establishment of the division under
charter. They have, too, secured Govern-
ment recognition of the institute in con-
nection with the 1938 celebrations. The
W.I.A. is the mouthpiece of the Austra-
lian radio experimenter, and solidity is
needed in these times.
The 20-metre band has been lively in
the afternoons for European ’phones, and
round about 4.30 p.m. Sydney time such
stations as EI2L in Dublin reach R 9.
But most European QSOs must be made
during week-end afternoons, and then it
is difficult to fit into the babel. There
is, of course, always the early morning,
but then the Europeans are clambering
all over each other.
AS, unexpected station on the evening
°* was XUBMC in Shanghai
on phone. The operator, an American,
seemed quite unperturbed at events
around him. He was later handling traffic
l P n y ate individuals with U.S.A. and
the Philippines.
Amateurs unable to read Russian who
have received cards from U.S.S.R. will
be interested to know that the portrait
on most Soviet amateur cards is that of
Ernest Krenkel, radio operator at the
North Pole station and leading amateur
in his country. It is reported that a VKS
has worked the Arctic station —callsign
UPOL.
The reported reception of five-metre
signals in North Wales has brought the
usual crop of incredulous comments.
That five-metre two-way DX between
this country and others is possible will
be proved in time. Radio is too young
to say “It can’t be done.” In 1924 in
London the possibility of working with
the Antipodes was scoffed at, but Goyder,
of G2SZ, startled the world by working
Bell, Z4AA, of Maoriland.
Press reports state that weak signals
have been received in Moscow from,
presumably, the missing ’plane forced
down whilst flying over the Arctic to
U.S.A. It is unfortunate that some defi-
nite scheme is not adopted whereby all
amateur stations would be notified of
aviation callsigns and frequencies to be
used in impending flights. Even if a
’plane is forced down at the North Pole,
signals are likely to be picked up at
great distances, and a concentration of
amateur observers in such instances could
be of immense value. Without previous
information, however, would-be radio
searchers have nothing to work on.
VK2NO.
Battery Charging Troubles.
Technically, there is nothing against
the accumulator as a source of power for
a radio receiver, and it is through no
fault of manufacturers that country
people seek other means of obtaining fila-
ment current. A Victorian reader has
a few words to say on the subject:—-
“A recent Bulle-
tin article on main-
tenance of accumu-
-lat o r s contained
sound advice, but
adoption is not
always easy. When I
take my battery to a
local service station
for recharge, the set
runs for only a
couple of weeks;
more kick can be
put into the battery
by coupling it to my
car battery for a
few hours through a
lamp. I do not ob-
ject to the price, but
to the inconveni-
ence. The accumu-
lator is not dead
unless the traders
kill it. Others
handle accumulators
carelessly. The Air
Cell is a godsend
for two-volt sets, but
accumulators are essential for six-volt
sets. It is not difficult to see what will
happen if accumulators are a constant
problem through poor service.”
D.B.K.
An Outback Station.
The illustration shows the transmitter
of a N.Q. experimental station, VK4GA,
owned by Don Shearer, at Quamby, via
Cloncurry. Shearer became interested
in radio in 1921, and was licensed as
VK4GA in 1928. In addition to his
amateur ticket he holds the second-class
commercial ticket. His first amateur sta-
tlon was a simple self-excited Hartley
arran B eme nt used at Gayndah and Mt.
Nebo. Present transmitter is a conven-
tional three-stage crystal outfit using 59,
46 and two 210 valves, with power de-
rived from a 240-volt 200-watt 50-cycle
alternator driven by a Villiers 6-h.p.
direct-coupled engine.
The receiver is a simple but effective
T.R.F. type with R.F., electron-coupled
detector and pentode audio. The main
work of VK4GA is in co-operation with
aircraft, and recently the station was in
operation for 21 hours non-stop during
the search for a missing ’plane in the
N.T. Work has also been done with
R.A.A.F. ’planes and flying-boats in the
vicinity.
Stromberg 617—32-volt
Application.
To readers with 32-volt home lighting
plants, details of the Stromberg-Carlson
vibrator model 617 will be of interest.
The diagram shows a very simple unit
which can be made up for a few shil-
lings. It is a terminal board with a
double-pole-double-throw knife switch
and a batten lampholder. A receiver of
this type can be used thus on the 32
volts or with lower voltage supplies.
When the switch is in the ON position,
the battery is connected to the receiver,
and in the OFF position the battery is
connected through a lamp of specially-
chosen wattage to the 32-volt supply
mains. Thus there is a slow trickle
charge going into the battery while the
set is switched off. The approximate
size of the lamp is shown in the table.
The method is not costly. The cur-
rent drain is so low as to be almost
negligible. The system gives the advan-
tages of a 32-volt receiver without re-
course to a 32-volt motor-generator or
vibrator. This means no bearing troubles,
no commutator or brush adjustments,
and no noise on short waves. This
model 617 (reviewed B. 11/8/’37) was
found to be outstandingly free from
noise at the higher frequencies.
Approx. Approx. Approx.
Approx. Lamp Lamp Lamp
Daily Use Wattage Wattage Wattage
of Set for for for
in Hours. 12v. Supply 32v. Supply. 50v. Supply.
2 4 15 15
3 4 15 15
4 4 15 15
5 6 15 25
6 6 15 25
7 6 15 25
8 12 25 25
9 12 25 30
10 18 25 40
11 18 25 40
12 18 40 40
If it is desired to stop the charging
while the set is out of use the switch
can be left in the centre position. Slight
overcharging of the battery would do no
harm. If the set should be used for an
excessive period and the battery run
down, a larger lamp or resistance may
be temporarily inserted in the socket.
D.B.K.
Service. Notes.
Struck a burned-out power trans-
former recently. Rectifier tested correct;
electrolytics were sound ; the speaker was
in order and no high voltage leads were
grounding. There were no loose wires
about, and with a rewound transformer
the set went perfectly. Still dissatisfied,
I inspected the 80. The filament strut in
one section was bent outward towards
the plate. When heated, after running a
little while, the 80 could be made to arc
over by gentle tapping.
Called to inspect a midget five-valve
super which suffered from fading on
local stations and general intermittent
operation, I checked over and found
valves in good order. Loose leads were
non-existent and coils seemed all right.
The customer complained of worse
fading at the low (wave-length) end of
the dial. Investigation showed that sta-
tions at that end of the scale required
more gain than others and brought the
moving arm of the volume control (an
open type wire-wound rocker-disc) to a
spot where dust had accumulated, and
was causing poor contact. Cleaning put
matters right.
Where there are noisy volume controls
in modern supers in which the com-
ponent, instead of being in the bias line
to the I.F. stages, is in the diode circuit,
diagnosis is fairly easy. A few twists of
the control usually show up the fault.
A recent case wherein the control
(carbon type) was not only noisy but
had an “open” at about the middle of
its range demonstrated just how trouble-
some such a fault can be. Although
filtering was in order and speaker field
and electrolytics stood all tests, a bad
hum was present. Replacement of the
noisy “open control cured all troubles
at once. The high resistance introduced
in the second detector circuit by the
open resistance element gave rise to the
“open grid” type of hum.
The trouble in a set with a restricted
tuning range was traced to careless
positioning of the dial mechanism. When
the set had been set up in its cabinet
the dial had been set on the gang shaft
with the dial at 100 degrees and the
condenser vanes at about 75 or 80. Hence
the lack of stations above about 450
metres.
R.H.A.
The new 6V6G Beam power amplifier
valve put on the market by the A.W,
Valve Co. is mainly for use in Class-
ABI push-pull amplification, but has ob-
vious uses in experimental transmitters,
particularly for portable work, because
the heater current rating is lower than
for the 6L6G. Heater is 6.3 volts at 0.45
ampere, plate and screen voltage 250,
grid voltage 12.5 negative, plate current
45ma., screen current 4.5 ma. and plate
resistance 52,000 ohms. As a single-
valve amplifier, maximum power output
is 4.25 watts and up to 13 watts in push-
pull with plate voltage of 300. Like the
6L6G and 6L6, the new valve is fitted
with an octal base and, as the G indi-
cates, is of glass.
The Question Box.
Full name and address must accompany all
queries; and write legibly to avoid con-
fusion in addresses. Queries are dealt with
by post where the matter may be urgent, .
otherwise answers will appear in this column.
To exchange The Book of Practical Radio,
by Scott-Taggart, for Outline of Wireless, by
Stranger.—6B37.
* * * *
What cement would be suitable to attach
small brass nameplates to a transmitter having
aluminium and bakelite panels ? —578.
Use Durofix. This has a celluose base,
and sets hard within an hour. It can be
obtained at most hardware stores at Is. and
2s. per tube.
* * * *
(1) In reference to the Short-wave Signal
Booster ( B. 4/ 8 / ’37), can you give me a circuit
for use with a 1936 seven-valve dual-wave
Bandmaster which uses IC6, three IC4, 185,
30 and 19 valves? (2) Aerial diagram enclosed
indicates spaced (not transposed ) feeders. As
the lead-in must only be quarter-wave, does
this mean that the aerial would only be about
15 ft. high ? (3) My aerial is 36ft. high. Could
I use a doublet with spaced feeders and a 45 ft.
lead-in ? (4) Best length for each section of
the flat top? (5) How could I connect the
doublet to the set ? —579.
(1) The circuit is quite in order for battery
sets. A type 15 can be used as stated. This
is a two-volt indirectly-heated screen-grid valve
taking a five-pin socket. (2) With quarter-wave
feeders, yes, but a multiple can be used. You
can use feeders three-quarter waves if neces-
sary. (3) Yes. (4) From 25ft. to 30ft. (5)
A coupling coil will have to be arranged over
the first R.F. grid coil. It can be wound on •
a slightly larger former and slipped over near
the earth end of the grid coil.
* * . * *
I have been using a two-three valve battery
set, with 19 and 33 valves, and should like to
include the separate reactor valve, as shown
in B. 21/7/’37. Enclosed is a circuit of a four-
valve receiver using a 34 as untuned R.F., 30
as reactor, 19 as detector and first audio and
33 pentode for output. Will this arrangement
work satisfactorily ? —5 81.
According to the diagram, everything is cor-
rect, and should make an interesting receiver.
We’d be interested to learn results.
* * * *
What can be done to modernise an old Air-
zone four-valve portable? —sBo.
Very little. The old container and the frame
aerial could be used as the basis for a modern
portable, but it is unlikely that any of the old
parts, excepting perhaps the dials, would be of
use.


The Commonwealth General
Assurance Corporation Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE: Australia House,
Wynyard Square, Sydney.
BRANCHES at Newcastle and Lismore.
VICTORIA: 475 Collins Street, Melbourne,
and at Geelong.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Epworth Buildings,
Adelaide.
A modern, progressive and purely Aus-
tralian Corporation, transacting all
classes of Idle Assurance, including:
Eight Option, Cash Bonus, Probate,
Non-Profit, Annuities, Personal Accident
and Sickness, etc.
WHY BUY BONUSES ?
“MAXIMUM ASSURANCE AT
MINIMUM COST”
Write jor full particulars 10
A. L. HARRIS, General Manager,
Box 140 CC, G.F.0.. SYDNEY.
Minerals for Dry Cows.
“More Gallons”: You must feed a cow
if you want to milk her. The cows yon’t
do any good on those dry paddocks.
Certainly they’ll forage round and seem
to get enough to keep them alive. Is
that all you want?
I feed my dry cows and - give them
Tri-cal-os Bone Flour, too —that’s why
my herd milks much longer than it used
to. Another tip that I’ve found useful —
give the Tri-cal-os lick to the milking
cows while they are in the bails. You
are sure of them getting it.
Ask Davis Gelatine (Aust.), Ltd., to send a folder. G.P.O. Box 3583 S,
Sydney, will find them.
Old Farmer.
4^
VITA-LI CK
Carries Sheep Through
Dry Conditions
Mr,. F. O. Elliott, Manager, Oak-
wood Station, Augathella, Q’land,
writes, 28181’29: —
“While hand-feeding, we have
found Vita-Lick immensely
valuable in keeping off the
hard, wasty conditions that
sheep get into under such cir-
cumstances if not kept in good
health.’’
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
Pity the Shorn Lamb.
“Ghanam”: There is the usual roll in
N. S. Wales this year of cold-snap deaths
among shorn sheep. In the Forbes dis-
trict, 15,000 are said to have gone west
in a week or two. Some small graziers
have had their flocks cut in halves. The
deaths followed sudden rain. ‘
There is little need for this sort of
tragedy—on small properties anyway—in
these days of cheap rugs. Those who
have tried large-scale rugging in-S.A. and
elsewhere during the past few years
found it improves wool quality and the
health of the sheep. And rugging would
be even cheaper if it were developed on
a scale commensurate with the needs of
the colder districts.
Blowfly Points.
“B-gar”: During normal times, when
blowflies strike only the after - part of
the sheep, there is no excuse for many
losses.
Often struck sheep do not get the
attention necessary. A yardful of struck
sheep are swabbed with some specific on
the affected parts and then turned bush.
These sheep might not be inspected
again until they come in for shearing ;
some are never seen again except as
carcasses in the paddocks.
Sheep must be kept in hand and
attended to several times a week until
wholly cured. No property should be
without its hospital paddock.
Also, it is just as effective to pour
water on a struck sheep as to apply the
dressing without first of all shearing away
the wool near by.
Universal Tally.
“Dead Finish”: The fast,.rough man
is as bad as the slow gouger. Neither
should get the slightest consideration.
But there is no reason for altering the
present system simply because the boss-
of-the-board allows a man who,can turn
out 150 a day in a workmanlike manner
to “get away” with 170-180 “roughed-
up ” ' \ • -' v>
The argument that the wool clip is
better handled under the new system be-
cause shed hands are not so
hard, and that the system gauges'better
the numbers required for,the “get-up” of
the clip, is nonsense. The same condi-
tions prevail in every shed, viz., slower-
shearing wethers and faster-shearing ewes,
and after the first day any competent
classer can estimate the number of
hands he will require. Further, any shed-
hand whose time is not fully occupied
is apt to become neglectful, and the
wool clip then does suffer. The same
applies to the shearer who can turn out,
say, 150 per day in a satisfactory
manner, and has to work to a slower
standard.
Potatoes for Sheep.
“Mulyan”: During the last couple of
months a number of sheep on Gundaur
station, near Nyngan (N.S.W.), have
been fed on potatoes, a bag a day to
every 200. The animals held their con-
dition as well as did other sheep fed on
maize.
The white sweet potato makes a good
drought fodder for sheep, cattle and
horses, besides an excellent food at all
times for pigs. It yields up to 35 tons
of tubers to the acre in rich soil, and
produces a quantity of milky vines and
succulent leaves, which are . eagerly-
eaten by all stock.
Before digging the tops are taken off
and used as fodder, and after digging
and bagging some growers turn pigs
on to the'ground. The grunters root up
all the small tubers anti roots that have
been left. ” • . - ,
When feeding sweet potatoes to sheep,
the Vines should be 'put through a chaff-
Attendant: “How many more times will I’ave to tell you to keep orf
that grass?"
cutter. The tubers can also be cut off
with: a chaffcutter, but should be scat-
tered to the sheep immediately after
being cut. < I ' .
Western Queensland Hay.
• “Notaden”:. Why do, so .many western
pastoralists • make f the game'a constant
gamble against the few drought years,
when a little' foresight in the good Ones
will render it a certainty? >• - ‘ i
" In 1910 Corinda station, near Ararnat
(C.Q.), stacked 50'tons .of Flinders and
Mitchell grass hay. It carried the place
over the dry spell of 1915 without sub-
stantial loss, arid part of the remainder,
mixed with water and molasses, saved the
situation in 1926. Now, 27 years from
the original cutting, it is only slightly
musty, and retains most- of its nutritive
value. It was tried this year for horse
bedding, but the nags ate every scrap of
it and looked for more.
Orphan Dennis.
“Pappamosca”: Orphan pigs need con-
stant care. Begin .with fresh whole cow’s
milk doled out six times a day. At three
weeks,, replace this with separated milk,
gradually reducing the daily meals to
three.. When the change of diet begins,
place a trough in the pen with a dry
ration of 10 p.c. meatmeal and the bal-
ance mixed bran, pollard and maize-
meal. There is no chance of overeating
on this.
As the pigs get along, a movable .pen
and a fresh bit of pastrire do as much as
anything to keep them active. And no-
thing does more to keep them healthy
than clean drinking water changed every
day.
Some orphans are not ready drinkers
and have to be taught. Put the milk into
a shallow dish, stand your suckling in it
and, firmly and gently holding it by the
back of the neck, push the snout into the
milk. If it doesn’t take to the ration in
two or three lessons there is something
wrong.
The crucial stage in a pig’s life is for
a month or two from its eighth week on-
wards. That is the weaning period when
• a litter is on the sow, but, whether on or
off the mother, the young, animals at
thaftime need careful watching and-feed-
ing. Above everything, they should riot
be', fed with their elders, ,who always have
the'ripper hand in a bun-struggle.
Peanuts for Porkers.
“In the Shell”: In U.S.A. peanuts are
largely used in hoggeries. In Australia,
they ( can 'be grown successfully under
the same conditions of soil and climate
as late maize .varieties.
, The nut-likes a light, sandy, fertile
soil, rich in humus. Planting should be
done after v an early ploughing, with
shelled nuts, though unshelled nuts are
used by some farmers. Shelling should
be done as close to planting as possible.
The best planting months around
northern N. S. Wales and southern
Queensland are October and November.
Rows should be 30in. to 40in. apart.
Distance between plants differs with
variety—white Spanish sorts will pack
as close as 6in. to Bin., but other types
call for from 12in. to 18in. Cultivation
should be kept up from the time plants
appear until the vines have completely
matted oyer the ground.
As with other crops among which pigs
are allowed to root, feeding behind
hurdles is a good plan. With some varie-
ties it is worth while to-take the vines
off and; feed them as hay, leaving the
porkers to hunt for the nuts.
; Aik kinds of stock like peanut hay,
though the yield is only about a ton to
the acre.
Balling in Horses. ,
“Horsey”: When hand-feeding horses
take care to examine their teeth. All
faulty ones should either be removed or
else filed so that proper mastication can
take place.
Recently we lost two bad-teeth horses
that had been running on lucerne in
which hard, short stems were left from
the previous, grazing. The stems had
been bitten off and swallowed whole.
Examination revealed large balls of these
short stems in all stomachs, acute inflam-
mation and all the outlets from stomachs
also blocked.
Symptoms of balling
are “dopeyness.” re-
fusal to eat or drink,
constant attempts to
roll, groaning and look-
ing at flanks repeatedly.
A cold sweat and
bloated appearance are
also indications.
Instant action must
be taken. ' First, give
one quart of pure lin-
seed oil in which has
been well shaken up
one fluid ounce Batt-
ley’s liq. opii. sed. Fol-
low one hour later with
one pint pure paraffin
oil.
Immediately after the
first drench give a
hypodermic injection of
arecoline to increase or
start bowel action. Pay
rigid attention to steri-
lisation of instruments
and skin where injecting. It is best given
in the shoulder by lifting the skin up
with the left hand and inserting the
needle with the right. Make sure there
is no air in the syringe, and inject slowly
under the skin only.
Arecoline is usually in tablets, and,
unless well acquainted with this type ot:
work, get the chemist to put the correct
injection up in sterile water ready for use.
Follow with copious enemas of warm
soapy water. These can be given with
a rubber tube and. funnel or a syringe.
Allow the tube to follow the bowels as
far as possible, thus irrigating as much
as yQU can. Once the bowels can be
made to function again, a cure is almost
certain.
Pasture Improvement.
“Lion”: Our pasture improvement has
been carried out in 24in.-25in. rainfall
area in the Riverina.
The first area treated was 70 acres of
old; cultivation lands which was eaten
out bare and top-dressed with 51b.
Wimmera rye, 21b.mixed sub. clover-
one early strain to three late—and lcwt.
super, per acre. The W.R. was a failure,
the s.c. - grew fairly well, especially the
early strain. Winter rains were late and
below average. • In spring, s.c. plants
were showing well all over the paddock,
and natural grasses had increased con-
(Continued on page 44.)


Age 40!
Starts health’s steep downward slope. About 40 life’s
fight begins. Danger symptoms show —weak, dizzy,
depressed spells; backaches, rheumatism (often affect-
ing heart); attacks from kidney germs, acids and
poisons.
AVERAGE LIFE ENDS ABOUT 55
This important fact vitally affects every grown man and woman.
Medical science proves “Life-
line Decline’’ starts near 40.
Then “ middle - age ” troubles
cheat great numbers of men of
health; while Kidney and
Bladder breakdown afflicts
about 65 men and women in
every 100—though many never
know why they ail! Seventy-
five per cent, of poison wastes
and uric acid deposits are filtered
by the kidneys in too concen-
trated a form. The overbur-
dened cells cannot stand the
strain. Congestion occurs, forc-
ing back into the system poisons
which should be expelled. Germ
attacks start. Here is where
health starts to fall off. Back,
groin, loin, muscular and
shoulder pains occur; swellings,
headaches, blurred vision, loss
of vitality; perhaps inflammation
of the bladder and urinary tract;
excessive or painful urination;
shortness of breath; palpitation
of the heart, pufhness under the
eyes, nausea and many quite
alarming signs of future trouble.
LIFE CAN “BEGIN” AT 40
And GO ON Comfortably Long After 55
Strengthen kidneys, restore
bladder, kill uric acidity—last-
ingly—properly—and Life can
be more full; can be extended
by five, ten, even twenty years,
For this purpose, Harrison’s Pills
—offered under authority of Dr.
Wm. Harrison, member of the
<
Royal College of Physicians, are
remarkably effective. Harrison’s
Pills are compounded to the most
perfect prescription known for
safely, surely, quickly overcom-
ing most middle- and old-age
weaknesses, pains and ills.
p
s§§&; ..
ft®
38
Unless I can end these pains and get back my strength
I feel I cant go on."
So say thousands. The Remedy is Harrison’s Pills—producing a
rapid change from despondent weakness and pain to sparkling health.
m
■ -, 'A' v
•• ' '«‘>x
■SfSSR
«
*sm<
>oc<
: >: - •:'.
m
m
%
URIC ACID Crystals Like Splintered Glass
TEAR NERVES & MUSCLES
REMOVE
THESE HARM-
FUL ACID
CRYSTALS
with
HARRISON’S
PILLS.
saw
■Mmk
yg&iiZ-
Diaqram showinq Tqpes of
Needle-point Uric Acid Crqstals
ĸ
With every movement—TOßTUßE! .. Tiny pain points that with every
move make you grasp and limp—weaken you and,spoil life. Rheumatism
is deadly. It starts with kidney-l'ailure. Cleanse your system of the
trouble-causing -crystals; heal your raw, weakened kidneys—by, taking:
Harrison’s Pills. This remedy reaches the spot. In quick time
sufferers who have failed to gret benefit from other remedies find
Harrison’s Pills bring: grateful ease.
Weary Bodies Revive YOUTH Returns
as Harrison’s Pills Conquer Causes of Decline
Harrison’s Pills strengthen Kidneys and
Bladder, Expel Uric Acid, Kill Germs and
Revitalise all the Vital Organs.
A short course of Harrison’s Pills produce
surprising improvements in health and vigor.
See the end of limb weariness, of haggard
appearance and despondent outlook. Note
the end of constipation. See a betterment in
your vision. Feel yourself become a good
ten years younger as Harrison’s Pills kill the
causes of ageing ills and instil new power
into every* nerve arid sinew; say good-bye to
your aches, pains, inflammation and stiffness.
Feel your step gain new youthful elasticity;
hear your friends remark at the vast improve-
ment in your spirits and your bearing.
HARRISON’S PILLS NEVER DISAPPOINT.
Harrison’s Pills provide the most effective
general method known of prolonging useful,
healthy, pain-free life. And, in the added
years you gain, who knows what further
astounding marvels of rejuvenation science
may devise?
Women Get Splendid Results
“Dear Sirs; —My daughter 1 has suffered a 1 lot from
swollen feet. She tried many other remedies, but
obtained no benefit until taking Harrison’s, Pills. . They
gave her relief straight away, and we cannot speak
too, -highly of them—they really are wonderful. She
has had no recurrences of the trouble.
(Signed) O. E. McKellar.”
MADE HIM A NEW MAN !
“Dear Sirs, —Due to uric acid and severe rheumatism, I
was practically dead at 77. In spite of the severity of
my trouble, Harrison’s Pills have made a new man of
me, and I feel not a day older than 50. I have never
known any remedy act in such a remarkably beneficial
manner.—(Signed) B. Jacobson.’-’
ANOTHER USER SAYS:—
“Harrison’s Kidney and Bladder Pills are the only pills
that do me any good . . . they saved me going to the
Hobart Public Hospital week after week. I suffered
from splitting headaches, giddiness, and I was bent
over like a half-shut penknife with my back. Last
August I was in bed five weeks —thanks to Harrison’s
Pills I am out of bed now. You can use this to let
anyone else know. —(Signed) J. Taylor.’’
Future will be so Interesting
LIFE MAY HOLD SO
MUCH
A REAL
(SuamnU
IMMEDIATE RESULTS
OR NO COST.
Simply get a package of Harrison’s Pills from the
nearest chemist. Take as directed, and if not freed
from your aches and pains—if not more than pleased
with’ the improvements in your health, strength and
general bearing—your money will be returned. This
guarantee protects you in making a trial —if Harrison’s
Pills succeed at once in your own case, they are worth
the cost. If the first bottle fails —it is free!
END AGEING KIDNEY,
Bladder and Acid Ills With
HARRISONS PILLS


IF YOU'VE NEVER TRIED A
MOCCASIN-FRONTED GOLF
SHOE
It's certainly time
you owned one. It’s
time you let your
feet rest easily in the
roomy toes of these
new styles. Only
then you 11 realise
what a difference the
feel of a really com-
fortable shoe makes
to your Golf.
No hard toecaps to
pinch and rub your
toes, you’ll take strokes off your round in ABBEY
MOCCASINS.
Stocked in full and half sizes.
Made in Brown Pebble-grain Calf 30/-
“If it's an Abbey Shoe it’s a good Shoe.”
ABBEY SHOES
316 GEORGE STREET, 224 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY.
Telegraphic Address: ‘‘ABBEY BOOTS, SYDNEY.”
k
ķ
I~VV'
v~i
■
41
!/ 'll/.
IMPORTANT SUBDIVISION SALE
Portion of QUAMBONE Station
In the Favourably Known Coonamble District.
QUAMBONE
For Sale by Public Auction
At the Manchester Unity Hall, Coonamble,
On Wednesday, 15th September, 1937,
At 3 p.m.
29,057 ACRES 29,057 ACRES
Subdivided into 9 grazing areas, comprising 3050 acres
F.H.; 3050 acres F.H.; 3050 acres F.H.; 3676 acres F.H.;
3068 acres F.H.; 2580 acres F.H.; 2351 acres F.H.; 3492
acres F.H.; and 4740 acres,
(All areas are approximate.)
Situated from 25 to 28 miles from Coonamble; all good wool-
growing, fattening and breeding country. Admirably adapted
for fat-lamb raising, and in one of the soundest districts of New
South Wales. Rainfall, 1 7 inches.
Open red and chocolate soil plains, with strips of good, quick-
coming sandy loam. Timber: Myall, Box, Buddah, Wilga, White-
wood and valuable Pine. Grasses: Mitchell, Blue, Umbrella, also
numerous herbages, for which the District is noted.
The land comprises all the well-known Nedgera Creek portion
of Quambone Station.
The above Estate is being subdivided on behalf of the Quambone
Pastoral Co., Ltd., into areas to suit all buyers, and this is an
opportunity of securing a good property in a safe District.
TERMS - - - CASH
i
Lithographs available on application, and intending purchasers will be
shown over the property on making arrangements with the Auctioneers:
PITT, SON & BADGERY, LTD., SYDNEY,
RUTLEDGE & STOKES, COONAMBLE.
(Auctioneers in conjunction.)
caafi„
\aVt(
OUCKLfiND
-CO
LutLONGTO
ii
THE NEW
UNION
LUXURY
LINER
AWATEA”
CROSSES THE
TASMAN IN
2i DAYS /
This 23-knot express liner has set
a new standard in Trans-Tasman
travel.
Notable modern features include the Gymnasium, enclosed Promenade and
Observation Deck, Men’s and Women’s Club Rooms, Verandah Cafe and Dance
Room, as well as the Library and Writing Room, Luxurious Lounge, Music
Room, etc.
The “Awatea” carries First and Tourist Class Passengers.
Regular Service maintained between Sydney, Auckland and Wellington.
For all Particulars apply:
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z., LTD.
(Incorporated in N.Z.)
247 George Street, Sydney.
59 William Street, Melbourne.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
Tj^^uZZetz/rL
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
siderably. The carrying capacity in-
creased a half-sheep per acre the first
year.
The area was top-dressed again for the
following two years with lcwt. super,
only. Carrying capacity is now about
three sheep p.a. for eight months, then
back to two sheep p.a. for the next four
months. The soil has improved beyond
recognition. The W.R. was absent the
second year. During the s.c. growing
period, no sheep were put on until the
plant was well formed.
Another 100-acre paddock was treated
without being eaten out bare, and sown
with a disk drill on the hard surface.
The same mixture was used, and results
were about 50 p.c. better all round. This
paddock has never looked back as far as
the s.c. is concerned. It has been top-
dressed with lcwt. super, each year.
A third paddock was ploughed and
cultivated as though for wheat and sown
in mid-March with 401 b. seed oats, 21b.
s.c., Jib. Akaroa cocksfoot, lib. red clover,
lib. Phalaris tuberosa, 2\Vo. perennial
rye, and 1801 b. super, p.a. The oats
were sown east to west, and the other
seeds north to south, 901 b. super, being
used each way.
The oat crop provided good cover for
the grass seeds, and good green feed
during the growing period. It was eaten
off three times. The grain yield was a
60-bushel average. The carrying capacity
has averaged 4{ sheep for eight months,
and three sheep for four months. All
seeds made rapid growth, the rye grass
being particularly successful. The red
clover comes later than the sub., and so
ensures additional green feed when most
needed.
Drought and Fodder Conservation.
“Valerin”: “Ghanam” (B. 11/8/’37)
is right. Prime fodder supplies are
lamentably short, and when we strike
another 1901-02 or 1913-14 drought
sheep losses in N.S.W. will be calamitous.
Mechanisation of transport on roads
and farms has put hundreds of hay-
growers out of business, so that reserves
of fodder have dwindled to nothing. On
a vast area of pastoral country the accu-
mulation of fodder reserves is not always
practicable.
Growers in “safe” areas must be en-
couraged to store hay and grain under
expert supervision. Graziers and wool-
broking companies should be able to
work out a scheme.
Fodder Provision.
“Zedo”: The only way to make a
stock farm pay is to standardise as much
as possible over long periods. The ideal
farm is one which has so many acres
of crop and grazing, so many acres pas-
ture, so many of fallow and a number
of sheep or cattle, which may vary only
in such a way as to prevent overstocking
and at the same time to provide during
good years for carrying numbers
through the bad ones without undue
drain on the soil.
Only with hay and grain and lucerne
storage —by silage methods or otherwise
—can this be achieved in the coastal and
sub-coastal areas. In Western Queens-
land and other inland districts it is far
more difficult, but much can be done
where there are no crops by holding
Mitchell and Flinders grass hay.
There is quite a tidy living for some-
body who has the capital to go into the
mowing business in the Mitchell-grass
country in a bountiful season and con-
tract to provide drought reserve fodder
from stations’ own resources.
Acetylene for Pines.
“Buderim”: The new acetylene method
of season control (B. 18/8/’37) may in
time prove a boon to Queensland pine-
apple exporters, but so far the Black-
all Range growers have not had the same
results that are claimed in Hawaii. The
Palmwoods and Woombye growers have
found that the scheme works well in
summer, but the winter results have been
disappointing.
Applications of acetylene between
September and March last year brought
over 90 p.c. of treated plants into flower
six to eight weeks after treatment. Some-
times, the treatment was 100 p.c. effec-
tive. April applications showed a maxi-
mum result of 90 p.c., and, instead of
producing flowers in six to eight weeks,
plants took 12 to 14 weeks.
However, the thing seems to work
reasonably in with Queensland shortages.
November treatment should give matured
fruit in May, when there is always market
scarcity, and early March treatment
should increase the November-December
yields, which are rarely adequate to
meet the demand.
Eradicating Button-weed.
“Johnno”: Introduced as a fodder
plant, Mexican clover, alias button-weed,
white-eye and goat-weed, is a serious pest
in many districts. A deep taproot, which
suckers freely, makes it difficult to deal
with, particularly on volcanic and allu-
vial soils. Chipping only strengthens it.
The pest is best attacked at the end of
winter, when the vines have been killed
or cut back by cold weather and frosts.
The ground should be well ploughed
(lightly first) and harrowed, every par-
ticle of root and vine being picked up
and burnt. After planting, the ground
should be constantly worked, and the
young weeds destroyed as soon as they
appear. If left to grow for more than a
few days, the root system becomes
firmly established.
Where the scarifier cannot be used, a
light hoe is best. Don’t meddle with the
weeds when weather is wet, as they will
only strike root again.
Chinee Apple.
“H.D.”: As a drought-resistant fodder
plant I nominate the Chinee apple. In
the Charters Towers (Q.) district the
trees thrive on seemingly barren granite
ridges.
When about 10 years old the trees
make splendid shade for stock, and the
fruit, ripening in winter, has an agreeable
acidulous flavor. A 10-year-old tree pro-
duces from 501 b. upward of fruit.
Planted along the bore drains of the
sheep country they should provide a
valuable standby, and if given a decent
start by watering occasionally after
planting out they should grow away from
water. They can be cut down to the
ground year after year, and soon shoot
again. The crop lasts about eight weeks.
Potato Development.
“J. Want”; Australia’s average potato
production per acre is round about 2.5
tons, a quarter of the yield in average
European countries.
A great deal of the trouble is due to
lack of proper cultivation methods and
to the spread of virus diseases.
The N.S.W. Agricultural Department
has done a good deal of work with
hybrids, but very little attention has so
far been given to producing immune
varieties. In S. America, with the help
of resistant tuber-bearing solan,um species,
varieties immune from blight and infec-
tive diseases generally are being worked
up.
There must be rigid regulation of seed
supplies and the more general adoption
of an effective system of rotation which
would isolate outbreaks to the seasons
and areas in which they occur. No seed
should be allowed to be sold unless it
can be certified clean.
“Snout”: Juan Campion, of El Trio,
Argentine, claims to be the world’s larg-
est pigbreeder ; he runs about 12,000 for
market, using Duroc-Jerseys, with a
Large White carcass —a Smithfield cham-
pion—as a model. The pigs are reared
on lucerne, and marketed at about 2001 b.
liveweight.
“Porcher”: Artichokes break about
even with sweet potatoes as a heavy-
cropping feed which pigs will harvest.
Any decent soil suits ’chokes, and any
climate, from the Speck to Q. I have
averaged 14 to 16 tons to the acre in
N.S.W. and Vic., using the same ground
to produce three successive crops from
one planting, hurdling the pigs and
moving them on before they had eaten
out any section. Then a bit of straighten-
ing up and harrowing left everything set
for the next crop. The only trouble is
to get rid of the ’chokes when you need
the soil for another purpose.
“C.V.S.”: “Walgett” (B. 4/8/’37) sug-
gests that shearing can be had nearly
all the year round for those who want
it. From a list compiled from shed reps.’
reports of previous years, I find that
during first six months of the year in
N.S.W., excluding southern Riverina, sheds
which began work were as follows: In
January and February, none ; in March,
one, with 31,000 sheep ; April, seven, with
70,000 sheep ; May, one, with 16,000;
June, 27, with 708,000. About 220
sheds commenced shearing in July, 366
in August, 282 in September, 267 in


THE EASY-
SHAVING
RAZO
For perfect ease and comfort, sliave
with a hollow-ground Plum Razor —fully
guaranteed and kept in order for two years,
free of charge.
Selected steel, black handle
Extra quality steel, xylo. handle 15/<>
Superfine steel, ivory handle 21/-
ALL POST FREE.
Guard to convert the Plum into a safety razor,
3/6 extra. Fits £ and 2 blades.
CRAIG & AITKEN
654 GEORGE STREET,
SIDNEY.
NO MORE TAXATION-RETURN
PROBLEMS
The Primary Producer’s Account Book
costs you £l,
but that includes the free preparation of your Income Tax
Return by
H. Rawson Stevenson,
a taxation expert, who by his thorough knowledge of
taxation methods will see that you claim the maximum
deductions, and thus save yourself many times over the
cost of the book, and endless worry.
Read what one purchaser says:
“I am enclosing my cheque for £3/0/6 to pay for three
copies of the Primary Producer’s Account Book. I showed
the book I had already bought from you to three of my
farmer sons, so they are now each wanting one, as it is
something we have been wanting a long time.”
—H.K.R. (Bogan Gate, N.S.W.)
Forward cheque for £1 (plus exchange) to
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO. PTY., LTD.,
252 George Street (Box 252 IBB). Sydney,
and the Primary Producer’s Account Book will be sent you
post free.
LI STAR D
Marks an
Epoch in
Diesel Engine
Design ......
“Listard” is a special process of
cylinder hardening which in-
creases BY AT LEAST 300%,
compared with the hardest pre-
viously known metal, the resist-
ance to wear in Diesel Engine
Cylinders and, at the same time,
reduces the maintenance cost
and extends the all-round effi-
ciency of the engine. Just think
what this means! Lister Diesels
are already famous for their
long life and efficiency, and now
they offer you the nearest thing
to the never-wear-out engine
Cylinder that science and
engineering genius have yet
produced!
And remember, Lister Diesels
are the only stationary engines
available with “Listard” Pro-
cess Cylinders.
LISTER DIESEL
ENCINES
I
m
m
\
6
/
Sole Agents
for N.S.W.:
DaNGAR, GEDYE & M ALLOCH Ltd.
Malloch House, 10-14 Young Street, Sydney.
Telephone: 86095 —(six lines). Telegrams: “Dangars,” Sydney
October, 99 in November, and one in
December. Queensland’s busiest period
is August-September, and Victoria’s
September-October. Shearers find work
scarce for the greater part of the year.
And any shearer arriving in Tasmania
about mid-December would be lucky
to pay expenses.
“Murrawong”: Daggy sheep, particu-
larly when the dags are soft, slow up
piece-picking considerably. An extra
boy should be put on to attend to dags.
Before skirting, remove dags with as
little wool attached as possible. Throw
them to one side —not into baskets with
skirtings—and do not allow a heap to
accumulate. The dag-picker should re-
move all wool that can be pulled off the
dags, and this should be blended through
the second or lower line of pieces. Dag
stains will scour out. Only actual urine-
stained wool should be branded “Stained
Pieces.”
“Rockless”: Don’t replace old-type
shearing handpieces one or two at a
time. It leads to trouble among
shearers, and, further, for the new,
chicken-foot fork machines, the shafting
should be run at 60-100 revs, per minute
more than for the old ones, so it would
be impossible to make a pace to satisfy
both parties. When using a shaft rev.
counter, the right time to take the read-
ing is with full load on, preferably with
every shearer on the long blow.
“Timothy Tywire”: The blowfly has
been unusually bad in some parts of
n.-w. Queensland this year. Crutching
and ringing have been of little avail, for
most of the strikes have been on neck,
back and shoulders. An extraordinary
abundance of grass is blamed. Irritated
sheep trying to remove the seeds by
biting at the wool leave a moist patch,
and if the seeds pierce the skin a fester
sets up.
“Narooma”: One board boy to four
shearers is a fair allowance except in
“L” sheds, where a boy may have to go
all out to keep the wool away from the
three farthest shearers. The boys must
keep the wool away, keep the board
thoroughly swept and pick the locks. In-
sufficient sweeping means wool carried
down chutes to be trampled and. stained
in the pens. Hang packs at convenient
intervals and enforce the rule that locks
only are to be put in them. First, pick
all pieces of wool out of sweepings, then
pick locks up and put them in pack,
leaving dags and dirt to be dumped out-
side. Board pieces should not be put
in baskets with skirtings. Have them
taken direct to piece-pickers’ table at
frequent intervals and picked separately.
“Ghanam”: In no kind of breeding
do good sires return so permanent a
profit as in sheep. Put 3 per cent, maxi-
mum of 181 b. flock rams with 1000 71b.
ewes and the wool result alone within
four or five years should be an increased
yield of 21b. to 31b. per sheep, with a
better quality wool and a beast which,
sold either in its prime or as a cull, can
be depended on to bring a good deal
more than the original stock from which
it was bred. Present prices are low and
good flock rams fairly abundant. Of
Wanganella flock rams sold at last Bris-
bane ram sales, 92 went for nine guineas
and 70 for 10i guineas, and selected
rams from Boonoke averaged £8 15s. lOd.
It will be surprising if they are not
dearer next season.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
1 grow at least 500 tons of hay annually, anil
carry almost a sheep to the acre irrespective of
cultivation. If I were to cut 1000 acres into
small areas and graze in rotation, feeding baled
hay as well: (1) Would sheep eat the hay at all
while there was other feed in the paddock ?
(2) Would this method increase the carrying
capacity? (3) About how much hay p.a. would
be a fair allowance for one sheep ? (4) Can
you give me the address of anyone who has
fried this method of feeding? —56677.
(1) Rotational grazing of lucerne paddocks is
certainly the best method of utilising the feed
so long as care is taken that the “stand” is not
damaged. Naturally, the growth will depend on
the nature of the soil and the rainfall. If
lucerne hay is given in addition to lucerne graz-
ing a certain amount of the hay would be
eaten, though it would be very hard to esti-
mate the quantity per head per year. The
most satisfactory method of feeding would be
in a rack, which could be refilled as required.
(2) The sheep would keep in better condition
and would most probably be more healthy,
and the system would add to the carrying capa-
city. (3) About l|lb. lucerne hay per day, with
no other feed, will keep a sheep in fair con-
dition. (4) Know nobody following this method
in Australia.


ĸ
WILCOX, SMITH & CO
Postage Stamp Merchants,
Liverpool Street,
Dunedin, N.Z.
16 Page Buying and
Selling lust .Free.
Established 49 years.
Bankers: The Union.
QN
BANK
IHfc QUEENSLAND NATIONAL SANK, UMiicO
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors— James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq. ; M. J. Ryan, Esq. ;
F. E. Loxton. Esq. ; Win. A. Jolly Esq C.M.G.
General Manager —D. B'. FORBES
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory),
branches in ..Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering and the 0 1
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all geneial bankm 0 Jiu.m^
PRACTICALLY A CAREER
FOR £l/11/6
Write for details of the new remarkable
composite Short Story-Journalistic Course.
METROPOLITAN SCHOOL OF
JOURNALISM,
Dailey Street, Sydney.
Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject. . ,
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Warafs.
To buy old books on dialling and mathe-
matical geography. —6834.
Qualified woolclasser, 15 years' exp., avail-
able Oct.-Nov. —6842.
Man (21) wants position on sheep run; milk,
kill, sheep work, etc. Refs. —6840.
Baker, 23 years’ exp., wants position any-
where, single or second hand. Refs.—6853.
Widow, housekeeping and nursing experi-
ence, wants position with refined people; go
anywhere. Refs.—6826.
To buy, second-hand, complete set Catholic
Encyclopedia. —6820.
To buy volumes and numbers of the “Book-
fellow”: Series I, Vol. 1 (1899), Nos. 1 (Jan.
7), 2 (Feb. 18), 3 (Mar. 25), 4 (Apl. 29), 5 (May
31. Series II, Vol. 2 (1907, issued under the
title “Australia”), Nos. 6-7. Series III, Vol. 1
(1911-12), the whole; Vol. 7 (1922-23), any
issues after No. 11 (Aug. 15, 1923). Also
“Stage and Society,” Jan., Feb., April and
June, 1926. —6831.
Whereabouts of W. Milbourne, late Flora-
street, Mascot, N.S.W. —6890.
Information Sought.
(1) Wliat are the wicketkeeping figures of
the late Jack Blackham (who played in the
first Tests') and W. A. Oldfield (who played in
the last Test matches v. England)? (2) The
last Test in which Blackham played, and how
old was he when he retired? (3) Oldfield’s
age? —6904.
' (1) Wickets, Av.
Matches Cgt. Stpd. per Match.
Blackham ..30 35 29 2.13
Oldfield .. 38 58 31 2.34
(2) At Sydney on December 14-20, 1894; 41
years. (3) Oldfield will be 40 on Sept. 9.
* * * *
What was the Test-match incident at the
Sydney Cricket Ground when umpire Crockett
was hooted, and did the crowd rush the
ground ? —6889.
Victor Trumper and Clem Hill were batting,
and in going for a fifth run Hill was given “run
out” by Crockett on the throw-in to the wicket
by Relf. The crowd did not rush the ground,
but threw bottles, papers and refuse on the
playing-field, and the match was held up while
attendants gathered up the debris. The chant of
“Crock, Crock, Crock” was kept up by the
crowd during the afternoon, and, though thou-
sands waited for Crockett at the close of play,
they dispersed quietly when Hill and the umpire
left- the ground together.
H: * * *
(1) Details of the Rugby League matches in
which Dave Brown, of N.S.W., piled up 385
points in 1935 ? (2) What were the previous
best season’s figures? —6917.
(1) Tries. Goals. Points.
First-grade competition .. 38 65 244
Sydney v. Country 1 1 5
N.S.W. v. Country .. 2 3 12
With N.S.W. on tour .. 8 8 40 .
East. Sub. v. Newcastle.. 2 2 10
With Aus. team in M.L. 10 22 74
Totals 61 101 385
(2) Dally Messenger’s 270 points, scored in
1911.
* * * *
What were the tour figures of (1) the first
English Rugby League team in Australia and
M.L. in 1910, (2) the Australian team in Eng-
land in 1908-09 ? —6897.
(1) In N.S.W. and Queensland: Played 14,
won 9, lost 4, drew 1. Points for 340 (76 tries,
56 goals), against 247 (53 tries, 44 goals).
In M.L.: Played 4 (all won). Points for 187
(43 tries, 29 goals), against 47 (11 tries, 7 goals).
(2) Played 45, won 18, lost 21, drew 6. Points
for 561 (125 tries, 93 goals), against 467 (105
tries, 76 goals).
* * * *
What relation is Franklin Roosevelt, President
of the U.S.A., to the former President, Theo-
dore Roosevelt? —6868.
They had as common ancestors Claes Mar-
tenzan Roosevelt, who migrated from Holland
to America in 1649, and his son Nicholas.
Theodore traced his descent from Nicholas’s son
Johannes; Franklin from Nicholas’s son
Jacobus. Franklin and Theodore became con-
nected by marriage when Franklin married Anna
Eleanor Roosevelt, daughter of Theodore’s
younger brother Elliott. Theodore gave her
away.
sjc :Jc ijc
Origin of the word “wowser” ? —6805.
Eric Partridge in his Dictionary of Slang
gives it as dating from 1895 and calls it Aus-
tralian slang. Origin is apparently uncertain.
According to a writer in the “S. M. Herald”
(13/8/’37), in a petition presented to Parlia-
ment in 1394 complaining of abuses in the con-
fessional there was mention of an offence
known as “wowing,” and the term “wowsers”
was applied to monks guilty of this offence.
* * * *
When were the Roman Catholics in Ireland
debarred from holding land? —6813.
At the beginning of the eighteenth century a
penal code was introduced which prevented
Roman Catholics from voting, teaching, owning
land except under the most onerous conditions,
and from following professional vocations. In
1727 they were deprived of all franchise.
About 1780 a bill was passed by the British
Parliament allowing Roman Catholics to hold
property, freely exercise their religion and edu-
cate their children, and in 1782 Grattan suc-
ceeded in carrying through Parliament the
Declaration of Independence declaring the com-
plete legislative independence of the Irish.
* * * *
Was there cm abo. with Nelson at Trafalgar?
—6706. J 0 .
Yes. King and Phillip encouraged Sydney
abos. to take to the sea, and some embarked
in local craft, whalers and navy ships. King
spoke of them in several dispatches, one of
which contains reference to the Trafalgar abo.
* * * *
When is it correct to omit the prefix “Sir”
from the title of a knight? —6804. .
Whitaker’s Peerage says: “The title Sir is
formally prefixed to the names, when given
in full, of all peers who are also either knights
or baronets. Wherever in the knightage the
husband is styled ‘Sir’ the wife, in conventional
usage, has the title ‘Lady’ or ‘Dame’ as in the
case of a baronetess. But in both cases the
honor is one of courtesy and not of right. This
use of the prefix ‘Sir’ is inaccurate in the case
of honorary knights when, as is usually the
case, the accolade has not been conferred and
no special warrant has been granted permitting
use of this appellation; this also applies to
clerics, who likewise do not receive the acco-
lade (their wives being entitled to precedence,
but not necessarily to style of ‘Lady’).”
* * * *
Origin and translation of “He yaf nut of that
text a pulled hen that seith that hunters beth
nat hooly men, ne that a monk whan he is
cloysterles is likned to a fissh that is waterles;
this is to seyn a Monk out of his cloystre” ?
6891. , . ,
From the description of the monk in the
prologue to Chaucer’s Canterbury Tales. It
means' “He gave not a moulting hen for the
saying that hunters are not holy men or that
a cloisterless monk is like a fish out of water.”
* * * *
(1) In what country do the peasants live on a
sour-milk preparation that enables them to live
to a great age? (2) What is the preparation?
(3) As civilised foods are lacking in minerals,
why can’t a lick, such as given to cattle, be
prepared ? —6709.
(1) and (2). Preparation is koumiss —mare s.
milk which has undergone lactic acid and alco-
holic fermentation. It has been drunk for
centuries by nomadic Tartars on the steppes
of European Russia and of central and s.-w.
Asia. Kephir, a modern substitute, is pro-
duced from cow’s milk, the fermentation of
which is due to the addition of certain yeast-
like substances. During the process the milk
must be constantly stirred, permitting access
of oxygen and breaking up of the curd to
ensure ease of digestion. The process requires
about 60 hours to complete, and results in a
thin, sour, effervescent fluid which keeps in-
definitely without much further change. Metch-
nikov, a Russian scientist, asserted that kou-
miss would enable hunjans to live to a pro-
digious age; but when he died at 71 faith in
his remedy declined. (3) Manufacture of such
a lick would be simple; the trouble might be
to persuade people to lick it. Civilised foods
are not lacking in minerals; a properly-balanced
diet of meat, milk, fruit and vegetables supplies
more than sufficient for bodily needs.
* * * *
Is a returned soldier owning seven acres of
land and house valued at £3OO and receiving
a return of 15s. per week entitled to a pension
on reaching 60? If so, how much? —6718.
Yes; if residing on the property and single,
£1 13s. per fortnight; if married and residing
on the property with his wife, who has no
other income, £1 18s. If single and not re-
siding on the property, 14s. 3d. per fortnight;
if married and not residing on the property
and his wife has no other income or property,
£1 10s. 6d.
* * * *
(1) Have read that Paganini, the violinist,
by striking a certain note on his violin, could
shatter a wineglass placed some distance away.
Could he perform this feat at will? (2) Ex-
planation ? —6900.
(1) Yes, with any vessel of very thin glass or
porcelain. (2) Such vessels when struck pro-
duce a musical note. If the same note is played
by a violin or other soprano instrument with
sufficient intensity and for a sufficient length of
time the violent vibrations induced in the vessel
will shatter it.
* * * *
List of the English Poets-Laureate ? —6893.
According to records there was a Versificator
Regis during the reign of Henry 111., but
the first known Poet-Laureate was Chaucer.
Since him there have been John Kay, Andrew
Bernard, John Skelton, Spenser, Ben Jonson,
Sir William Davenant, Dryden, Thos. Shadwell,
Nahum Tate, Nicholas Rowe, Laurence Eusden,
Colly Cibber, William Whitehead, Thos. Warton,
Henry Pye, Southey, Wordsworth, Tennyson,
Austin, Bridges and Masefield.
* * * *
(1) Description of the death of Rupert
Brooke? (2) What is the inscription on his
tomb, and who wrote it ? —6856.
(1) On Tuesday, April 15, 1915, after a divi-
sional field-day, he went to bed tired im-
mediately after dinner, and on Wednesday he
remained in bed, but no anxiety was felt until
his temperature reached 103 deg. in the evening.
Next morning he was worse, and the illness
was diagnosed as acute blood-poisoning and
hopeless. He was removed from the Grantully
Castle to the French hospital ship Duguay-
'Trouin. Thursday he was barely conscious,
and on Friday he relapsed into a state ot coma
until he died at 4.46 p.m. He was buried
the same evening in an olive grove on Scyros
Island. (2) A Greek interpreter pencilled in
Greek on a wooden cross at the head of the
grave, “Here lies the servant of God, Sub-
Lieutenant in the English Navy, who died for
the deliverance of Constantinople from the
Turks.”
* * * *
Brief biography of Matthew Arnold ? 6731.
Matthew Arnold (1822-88), eldest son of Dr.
Arnold, headmaster of Rugby, was educated at
Winchester, Rugby and Balliol College, Oxfoid.
After four years as private secretary to Lord
Lansdowne, he was appointed Inspector ol
Schools, a position he held for 35 years.
He was sent to inquire into methods of Conti-
nental education, his reports having consider-
able influence in England. For 10 years he
was professor of poetry at Oxford. His best
poetry is classical in style.
* * * *
What is a sonnet? —6850.
Fourteen lines of iambic pentameter. The
two chief forms are the Petrarchan, consisting
of two parts —the octave and the sestet —and
rhyming abbaabba and cdcdcd, and the
Shakspearean, consisting of three quatrains and
a couplet, rhyming abab cdcd efef and gg.
Variations of the form and rhyming are fre-
quently practised, but the metre and length are
essential.
* * * *
(1) Mechanical layout and operation of
octane selector, 1935 26-li.p. Vauxhall? (2)
Explanation of “octane value” of petrols?—
6749. . ,
Distributor is free to rotate in the cylinder
block, and a bracket, bolted to the block, is
located at the side of the distributor head carry-
ing the suction control unit. A rod connected
to the diaphragm of the suction unit passes
through a short arm attached to the distributor
and has a knurled nut on its threaded end. As
the nut is turned the distributor alters its posi-
tion in relation to the fixed bracket, advancing
or retarding the timing 9! the spark. (2)
Octane is one of the ingredients of petrol which
retard the burning rate of the fuel; the higher
the compression ratio the more rapid the ex-
plosion, which often is premature and pro-
duces “pinking,” necessitating a higher octane-
rated petrol to decrease the explosion rate and
completely burn the gases.
* * * *
Information concerning hypoid gears? —6839.
Their use has been necessitated by increased
power output of engines and demand for lower
bodies. By offsetting the pinion below the
centre line of the crown wheel, greater tooth
contact can be obtained, and tooth design
offers as much as 50 p.c. greater tooth strength
than spiral bevel gears of the same size. The
sliding action makes operation quieter, and as
the location of the prop.-shaft assists in lower-
ing the body the centre of gravity is also
lowered, increasing safety. A special lubricant
is used to withstand the higher tooth pressure
and sliding action of the teeth. The car-manu-
facturers’ instructions on its use should be fol-
lowed closely.
* * * *
Information concerning strontium ? —6670.
A metal of the alkaline earth group, it occurs
naturally as the sulphate (celestite) and as the
carbonate (strontianite). Both are white or
grey, fairly soft, heavy and often well crystal-
lised. Strontium compounds are principally
used in the refining of beet-sugar and the
manufacture of fireworks. Celestite, the main
source of supply, is quoted at £7 per ton in
England and the U.S.A. Supply exceeds the
demand.
* # * *
Information concerning rutile and ilmenite? —
6641.
Rutile is a fairly common mineral composed
of oxide of titanium. Ilmenite is a titanium-
bearing oxide of iron. Both are fairly heavy
and are found in the sands of creeks and rivers;
heavy concentrations occur on some sea beaches.
Rutile is worth about £lO per ton, but the
market is restricted and there are no buyers
in Australia. Ilmenite is of little' or no value
and is not worth mining in Australia.
* * * *
How to make parsnip wine ? —6788.
Wash the parsnips and peel them thinly. Cut
into thick slices and weigh 3|lb. and put into
a pan with Igal. of water. Boil until they are
quite soft, then strain the liquor through a sieve,
pressing out as much juice as possible, but en-
suring that no parsnip passes through the sieve.
Allow 31b. of sugar to every gallon of liquor.
Boil for 45 minutes, then pour into a large
vessel, leave until lukewarm and add a little
yeast spread on a slice of toast. (The yeast is
only to help fermentation and may be removed
after a few days.) Leave the liquor to stand
for 10 days, stirring well each day. Pour it
into a cask, and it will be ready for bottling in
eight or nine months.
* * * *
Should citrus trees be sprayed with alboleum
during the present frosty season in .s.-w. N. S.
Wales ? —6433.
Spraying is not recommended now unless
the trees are very badly infested with scale.
Miscible white spraying oil applied at this
time of the year may reduce the blossom next
October. The correct months to spray in are
January, February and March, the white spray-
ing oil being applied at the rate of one gallon
to 40 gallons of water.
5{C 5*C sft 5|C
Best method to “strike” daphne shrubs;
when should the work be done? —6l26.
Layering gives best results. Select a seasoned
low-growing limb, bend it until it breaks about
midway, pin the broken limb in the ground
and cover the joint with soil containing some
sand. The shrub will root at the break. If
the limb will not reach the ground place the
the soil in a box. After six months the limb
can be severed from the shrub. Daphne can
also be propagated from cuttings placed under
a glass frame, but it is a gamble. For this
work, choose a small limb broken from the
main stem, leaving a “heel.” After the flower-
ing is over (about September) is a good time.
Brief Answers.
A.T.: Helen de Guerry Simpson has written
Acquittal, The Baseless Fabric, Cups, Wands
and Swords, The Desolate House. Vantage
Striker, Boomerang, The Woman on the Beast,
Henry VIII., and Saraband for Dead Lovers;
and, in collaboration with Clemence Dane,
Enter Sir John, Printer’s Devil and Re-enter
Sir J0hn.... E.W.W.: G. E. Jordan, secretary
South African Soldiers’ Assoc., 381 Mowbray-
road, Chatswood E.P.: Altitudes of the
towns mentioned are: Brewarrina 430 ft., Bourke
350 Wilcannia 246, Broken Hill 1000, Con-
dob’olin 700, Wentworth 144, Hay 291 and
Deniliouin 268 J.F.: Estimated population
of N S W. as at March 31, 1937, was 2,689,222.
EG : Your Mind and Mine, by Cattell,
i2s. 6d., post. 6d.; The Art of Thinking, Dim-
net ss. 3d., post. 3d.; Know Your Own Mind,
Glover, 4s. 6d., post. 3d.; How to *Think
Clearly, Jepson, 4s„ post. 3d.; Secret Ways of
the Mind, Kranefeldt, 10s., post. 4d.; Con-
cerning You and Me, Mcßae, 4s. 6d., post. 3d.;
Streamline Your Mind, Mursell, 65., post 6d.,
from Dymock’s, 424 George-street, Sydney.
GL H : (1) Grove’s Dictionary of Music.
(2) 'First published in 1889 in four volumes
and index, covering a period from 1450-1889.
Price, second-hand, £2 10s. (3) New set was
compiled, vol. 1, 1902, vol. 2 and 3 1906, vol.
4 1908, vol. 5 1910. Price, third edition, 1927-
98 £l2 10s M.W.: Riding camel £l2 to
£l4, pack camel £8 to £10; prices include
harness. (2), (3) and (4) Depends on the camel.
.. W. 8.: No value P.L.T.: Wayville
Beauty, Rose Grivell, New Glory and Bellego’s
Glory dahlias, 2s. each from Yates, 184 Sussex-
street, Sydney M.E.: Write Agricultural
Dept., Sydney, for pamphlet on subject
E.M.E.: Angus and Robertson, Sydney, or
Robertson and Mullens, Melbourne, might con-
sider it F.A.P.: “Rabaul Times,” published
at Rabaul every Friday, price 6d H.F.D.:
“Shire and Municipal Record” (monthly, 12s.
6d. p.a.), obtainable from Law Book Cos. of
Australia, 140 Phillip-street, Sydney E.A.P.:
Yes C.W.L.: (1) The print is very common
and is worth only a few shillings. (2) Any
reliable Sydney art dealer J. 8.: Harrison
Owen has written the plays “The Gentleman in
Waiting” (1925), “The Happy Husband” (1927)
and “Dr. Pygmalion” (1932) C.C.: Kitz
and Sons, 46 Haig-street, South Melbourne
(Vic), J. H. Foureur, Ltd., Clapham (S.A.),
Auldana, Ltd., Magill (S.A.), Cascade Brewery
Cos., Ltd., Collins-street, and Tasmanian Cider
Cos., Ltd., Murray-street —both Hobart... .G.T.:
Australasian Scale Cos., George-street, Waterloo,
H. and H. Cox, 383 Sussex-street, H. Pooley
and Son, 89 Quay-street, and J. Wedderburn,
74 Liverpool-street —all Sydney... .J.H.R.: In
1885 it was decided that the Speaker of the
N.S.W. Legislative Assembly should hold office
for the period between the dissolution and the
reassembling of Parliament... .F.P.: No. 14
bamboo knitting needles are obtainable from
Anthony Horderns’, Sydney C.M.: (1) The
camera obscura was first applied to photo-
graphic use by Thomas Wedgwood between
1792 and 1802. (2) No record L.T.: Use an
abrasive reducer, obtainable from Kodak’s.
Apply to the overexposed area of the nega-
tive with cotton wool on a match and rub
gently until the density is sufficiently reduced.
.. . .M.J.S.: Application should be made in
writing to the Accountant-General, Royal
Courts of Justice, London. Quote the correct
title of the estate, suit or matter in which the
claim is made. The applicant personally should
sign the application and state the grounds upon
which he claims to be beneficially interested.
A money order for 2s. 6d., drawn in favor of
the Commissioners of Inland Revenue, should
be enclosed W.M.L.: J. Hape is credited
with having shorn 378 sheep in Bhr. 54min. at
Dannevirke, M.L N.H.: David Scott Mit-
chell: A Reminiscence, by James R. Tyrrell
(Sunnybrook Press, Sydney; 55.)... .GJ.: Capt.
P. V. Storkey won his V.C. when in charge of
a platoon in attack at Hangard Wood, near
Villers-Bretonneux, on April 7, 1918 ... .H.D.:
The Commonwealth Literary Prize of £250 will
be awarded for the best novel by an Australian
author published or accepted for publication in
book form during 1937. Acceptance must be
certified by statutary declaration, and the work,
in type or MS., submitted to the Literary Com-
mittee, Australia’s 150th Anniversary Celebra-
tions, Box 3845 TANARUS, G.P.0., Sydney, before De-
cember 31, 1937... .H.C.F.: From Dymock’s
Book Arcade, 424 George-street, Sydney....
N.G.McD.: (1) Axel Munthe was born in
Sweden and- was physician to the Queen of
Sweden for many years. He now lives on the
island of Capri. (2) Red Crosses and Iron
Crosses and Memories and Vagaries, both
about 95., from Angus and Robertson, Sydney.
(3) Not necessary, but preferable R.L.McL.:
A possible, but tedious, method... .E.M.:
Woolclassers’ Assoc., 10 O’Connell-street,
Sydney... .G.L.R.: (1) Population of New
Caledonia, 57,165. (2) Three sawmills. (3)
Write to the British Consul in Noumea....
H. 8.: Coins and How to Know Them, by
Rawlings; 12s. 6d., from Angus and Robert-
son, Sydney... .M.D.8.: Itylus was the son ot
Aedon, wife of Zethus, King of Thebes. His
mother, jealous of her sister-in-law Niobe s
12 children, resolved to kill the eldest, but slew
her own son in mistake. Zeus changed her to
a nightingale to save her from her husbands
vengeance... .H.H.: Shinto is the Japanese re-
ligion; there are 121 adherents in Australia....
T.F.: R. L. Stevenson was called to the Bar
in 1875, but never practised 8.H.: (j)
Average burning rate for fuses used in gold-
mining is 93sec. per foot. (2) Depends on the
locality of the blasting S.J.P.: (1) Cannot
trace the book. (2) How to Make Money, by
H. S. Kahm; 10s., from Angus and Robertson,
Sydney C.M.: Four main institutes —Char-
tered, Commonwealth, Federal and Assoc, ot
Accountants. Commonwealth is preferable
but most difficult. Write Hemingway and
Robertson, Barrack-street, Sydney A.L.:
Kootapatamba is a N.S.W. abo. place-name
meaning “waterhole where eagles drink ....
L.R.: Noorla is a N.S.W. abo. place-name
meaning “a home” P.A.: F. Ashton, 11th
Battalion, was the first Australian captured alive
by the Turks... .J.L.D.: The “Two Misers, b>
Quintin Matsys, is in Windsor Castle
(Many others mailed.)


k
ENDUR A
CONKLIN ENDURA PENS
AND PENCILS
are
Colour Combinations of
unique artistic character in the
modern modes. Smooth, easy-
writing quality. Day by day
dependability. All future re-
quirements provided by the
famous Conklin Endura uncon-
ditional and perpetual service
guarantee.
A pen for any time . . .
... a pen for all time
Imperishable beauty, unending
utility. The Gift of exquisite
propriety, Conklin Endura
Pen and Pencil Sets are avail-
able in beautiful Presentation
Cases, affording ultra-modern
distinction and style to the Set
which is bestowed as a Gift.
Pens are priced at 30/- and
40/-, with Pencils to match
25/-. Complete Sets in
Presentation Case 55/-
and 65/-.
Use Conklin Fountain Pen
Ink—the best for every
Pen 4oz. bottles in all
colours, 1/- per bottle.
From all Stationers, Jewel-
lers and Departmental
Stores.
1
Wonderful holiday tour to this
world of mystery and charm, by
way of Salamaua, Rabaul, Cebu,
Manila and Hongkong—return-
ing via the same ports with
additional calls at Saigon and
Sandakan. The rn.v. "NEP-
TUNA" sails regularly from Mel-
bourne and Sydney. Excellent
cuisine and service sports
deck, swimming pool, etc. . . .
Fares are free of exchange.
At your request we shall, be
pleased to forward folder No. 78.
BUHIVS.PHILP
&. CD. LTD.
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
Telephone: B 790!
4&
gj
4P:
4,
312 Collins Street, Melbourne.
28 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
332 Lambton Quay, Wellington, N.Z.
■too cl
stoo
stare
d!
and
//
ķ
QUE
“She had a marvellous new outfit,
complete—down to every matching
shoe and button. But you should
have seen the cases she packed it in!!
Antediluvian —out-dated —un-modern.
I stood and stared. So did everyone
else.’*
FOR SMART LIGHT-WEIGHT
MATCHED LUGGAGE
ENSEMBLES
consult
BROS. LIMITED y
travel 'Department V.
N STREET BR? I S BANE
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
A o notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should
be addressed to the Editor, noT to members of the staff personally.
M.W.Y.: They have some music in them,
but too much vagueness... .8.H.: Pleasant
enough fancies, but you don’t make the grade.
... .C.H.S.: Yes, winter is—or was —here again,
but the statement repeated six times in 24 lines
seems a trifle superfluous... .R.E.R.: Try it on
the girl herself... .Z.V.W.: Reflections too
stodgy and obvious... .C.C.McN.: Not much
of a sonnet, and we can’t find the stamp....
J.K.: Good in parts 0n1y... .R.W.D.: They
fall short... .D.McC.: We waded through it
unprofitably.... J.E.P.: Some humor; hardly
mough snap... .P.C.C.: Nothing wrong with
inyme and metre, but you use a lot of paper
to say nothing that stirs or sticks E.M.E.:
Eyre and Baxter never crossed the Nullarbor
Plain; the leader skirted the Bight, hugging the
coastline as closely as possible... .F.L.McM.:
Quite good stuff in the solid eighteenth-century
style of versification, but we’re afraid it’s far
too long for our columns... .N.0.T.: A good
theme, but the craftsmanship is not quite what
it should be. Try again M.L.L.: You’re a
trier, anyhow, and we’ve read much worse verse
in papers that keep corners for such light fare.
But it’s out of our line... .E.G.: No luck....
A.L.L.: “I enclose a poem in blank verse en-
titled ‘Australian Summer.’” Two lines:
Bright (lays—and the warm sun burning the torrid
earth,
Imparting a golden gleam to the far-spread sands.
If you regard that as blank verse, Heaven help
you!... .A.R.S.: There’s some swing in it, but
it echoes too closely Lawson and other writers
who have dealt with the same subject... . M.F.:
Hopelessly unsuitable, and envelopes for the re-
turn of rejects need a. stamp as well as an
address. .. .J. 0.: Linked stodginess, long drawn
out... .F.R.P.: Poem might interest a church
paper, but we doubt it... .M.P.: Pretty enough,
but far too thin.... K.W:: The low tide of verse.
. ...H.K.J.: Poor stuff... .8.W.Y.: Too much
of it for an epigram and not enough for any-
thing else... .L.N.: That sonnet’s an also-ran.
... .D. 8.: Another patriotic poem, eh? :
Her waving corn is her gold regalia,
Her youth her natural guile,
But Nature’s greatest kindness to Australia
Is the sunshine of her smile.
And some pessimists complain that our bards
lack inspiration! H.M.: As pointless as it is
rhymeless... .P.M.: Get hold of Shelley and
read what he w'rote about the skylark....
H.E.G.: We’re not much interested in
. . . .the parson named Jardine,
The little English clergyman who’s suffering from
spleen.
He’s had his crowded hour, anyway... .D.C.: No
careless rapture in “Rhapsody” P.C.: You
might regard it as free verse; to us it’s prose,
cut into disorderly lengths K.E.C.: Hardly
a subject for lament G.F.A.: Evolution may
be an interesting subject, but 120 lines of dog-
gerel about it is a bit too much J.C.: We
“gave it a fly,” too —basketwards J.V.: The
statistics are undeniably of interest evefi if the
jingle, as you suspect, falls short M. 5.8.:
Your pen-picture of sea-waters at sunset “taking
a sanguine sheen from the sky’s iridescent stud”
brightened up a dreary afternoon R.C.: No
draw in “The Pipe” A.E.W.: Off our beat.
. ...R.C.M.: “Any hope?” None... .J.C.S.:
Chap who would “throw back his shoulders, and
flex his arms, pound his hairy chest and roar”
sounds like Tarzan M.L.G.: Drastically cut it
might sneak into Smoke-0h... .R.T.M.: Same
for you J.A.G.: Afraid “The Mistake” was a
big one C.G.P.: “The Last Chase” finished
down the course E.J.8.: Looks to have been
written with a fish-h00k... .J.L.McD.: As you
said, w.p.b H.S.: Weak... .E.D.: Cattle
thieves masquerading as ghosts—the old,
old story D. 0.: “The Honest Lie” lies
in the basket H.H.: “The bar was crowded
with despicable characters —at least they looked
despicable —the most despicable of this despic-
able crew stood at the bar alone, drinking some
of the proprietor’s despicable plonk!” Tour
vocabulary seems limited... .T.T.: “Success”
was a howling failure... .W.D.R.: You’re
ploughing an old furrow... .E.T.E.: “The
Black Mystery” was cleared up by the office-
boy E.C.: Slight A.H.: Not interested in
the staple swallowed by the station-hand....
R.A.M.: Dull J.C.S.: Cut down, it might
be unloaded on a local daily... .P.M.L.: No-
thing for us in that batch... .N.L.: Sending
the bone-pointer back... .E. 0.5.: You don’t
make a yarn of it....8.L.: Take the psittacid
away with you... .C.S.: Well, stone the crows,
what do you think of that? ... .N.L.S.: “Sorry
to inflict the reading of this on you.” We’re
recovering gradually.. ..8.C.5.: Schoolboy-
magazine stuff... .S.W.H.: .That idea has
whiskers on it.... H.M.C.: Your animated
fossil failed to stir us to mirth R.C.G.:
And that’s not even animated.
TO ARTISTIC fAND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
H.D.: You have expended more care on the
signposts than on the figures... .A.C.: Barmaid’s
retort is pointless... .W. 8.: A dead ’un... .J. 8.:
“From the Shanghai Front” is going back to
Castlemaine.... A.M.G.: Two old men with
heads like pumpkins and an antiquated gag....
N.T.: You won’t get far without lessons....
L.R.: Picture of a crooner would make an ex-
cellent target for a dart club... .H. 8.: Children
well drawn, but humor juvenile... .P.M.R.: We
suspect the little fellow is Billy Hughes, but
who is the bear he is leading?... .N.A. : The
giant’s arms are fixed to his ribs, and his legs
suggest gaspipes.... W.W.: One of Norman
Lindsay’s earliest E.P.: The youngster has
talent and should be given lessons... .G.H.: The
taxation vulture was shot at first sight... .R.L.:
American slang-terms and American dress!
R.J.: Liked the picture of the gravedigger, but
not his brand of humor... .C.H.8.: A shapely
pair of legs is the sketch’s sole merit H.T.:
All the figures defy the law of gravity G.W.:
An hour or two at the Zoo should teach you the
shapes of an emu and a kangaroo M.Q.:
Drawing with linework like the teeth of a cross-
cut saw ended in the basket... .E.C.: Puzzled to
find the point of huge picture labelled “Bled
White” and showing a sow and litter of piglets.
F.P.P.: “Could you find space for this?”
No, nor for any others like it....W.5.: You
get nearer the mark. Pay more attention to
composition... .G.K.: Gags must be original.
They can be submitted without sketches
E.J.D.: The flagpole is well drawn, but we
couldn’t print that on its own N. 8.: You
leave too much out.
A MIXED GRILL.
Geoffrey Muir, of Auckland, who was
press liaison officer for the Maoriland
trade delegation during Minister of
Finance Nash’s visit to England, has
joined the editorial staff of London
“Times.” Muir was formerly on the
“N. Z. Herald.”
A British flying boat carried the first
air-mail letters from London to
Durban on June 29. S’Africa gets two
mails a week, East Africa and Singapore
three, Egypt nine. The Singapore section
will be opened about October. The Aus-
tralian? Nobody can tell. Meanwhile,
it still costs twopence to send a letter
across a street in Australia.
* * * *
The Independent Group of players
has given Adelaide a novelty in Shaks-
peare modernly dressed. Agnes Dobson,
as producer, made a wise choice in
“Much Ado,” for the backchat of Bene-
dict and Beatrice has much more of
Noel Coward and evening-dress about it
than would have that of (say) the “Mac-
beth” pair. Sartorial monotony was
avoided by putting as many as possible
of the men into military uniforms.
# # * *
Approximate number of wage- and
salary-earners in Queensland during the
June quarter was 175,110, and there were
10,550 unemployed ; as compared with
148,340 employed and 16,660 unem-
ployed in 1929. The unemployment rate
without relief workers was 5.7 p.c. and
with relief workers 9.3 p.c., against 10.1
p.c. before the depression. But they
still collect unemployment tax, largely
at lid. in the £ of income.
* * N= *
“Pepper-box”: Perhaps some of these
New Education Fellows could do with a
bit of educating themselves. Ivor Burge,
described as an International Physical
Instructor, has been telling Melbourne
Y.M.C.A. that the “Irish” game of hand-
ball was the origin of squash rackets.
Handball is a poor imitation of the old
English game of fives, and was developed
to its present state in the U.S.A. among
the Irish there. Squash is directly derived
from rackets, which, owing to the costly
walled courts necessary, is rarely seen
in Australia.
Guinea Airways has added another
link to Australia’s air connections
with an Adelaide-Sydney service. Three
American ten-passenger Lockheed Elec-
tras are being used on the fun, which
takes in Mildura, Hay, Leeton and Coota-
mundra.
* * * *
Miss Graham Berry, who has given
over making records of births and deaths
in the Victorian Government service, is
the daughter of one of Victoria’s earlier
statesmen. Her father, Graham Berry,
was thrice Premier—in 1875 (74 days),
1877-1880 (1019 days) and 1880-81 (340
days); and a good man, too.
* * * *
William Conway, once known at “the
brilliant boy pianist,” to whom America
a^ een kinder than his homeland, Aus-
Era^a ’ 1S on his way back to the
niche he has found for himself in the
l ancE °f the Stars and Stripes. The trip
to Australia was taken to see his am
folk, who live in Melbourne, and to
soothe tired nerves by bathing in Aus-
tralian sunshine. In America Conway
would have made a pile of money if he
had switched from classic to jazz. An
offer he turned down from a stage star is
bringing in a fellow-musician $3OO a
week. But Bill Conway has no regrets.


QUICK FACTS
FOR
YOUNG MEN
You will find that a personal cheque
account or an interest-bearing Fixed
Deposit holds worthwhile advantages
for you. Your deposit business, small
or large, will be welcomed by the
Rural Bank. Many young men, with
incomes of various sizes, are getting
ahead by wise use of a cheque
account and prudent investments on
Fixed Deposit.
Cheque accounts are opened and
Fixed Deposits accepted at all
branches.
RURAL BANK
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
HEAD OFFICE: MARTIN PLACE. SYDNEY
Commissioners: C. R. McKerihan (President), H. Rogers, P. Kearns
With Harry Trott in English in 1896.
No. 8 of a series of articles on Old Cricketers.
In the winter of 1895 a Bulletin man
predicted that Harry Trott would be cap-
tain of the 1896 team for England.
“Trott,” he wrote, “though a bowler,
does not expect, ?s Giffen does, to get a
wicket with every ball. He not only
takes advice, but asks for it, whereas
Giffen will ignore the unanimous wish
of a side. And Trott is much liked by
cricketers —an important consideration
when a team is on tour. Moreover,
Trott is a fat man, and every captain
should be fat, if it can be so arranged.”
Giffen’s demerits as skipper his
merits as member of a side were always
recognised—were enlarged upon in a
subsequent paragraph: “Giffen, when
captain, acts as if Giffen were the whole
eleven. Captain Giffen starts with the
best bowler (i.e., Giffen) ; and if the best
bowler doesn’t come off he puts on the
next best, who is Giffen ; and if the next
best does not succeed he puts on the best
change bowler, viz., Giffen ; and if this
best change bowler gets pasted he tries
the whole eleven, one after the other,
which is Giffen ; and he, too, failing, no-
thing is left but for the captain, Giffen,
to put himself on. This being ineffective,
Giffen goes on himself to keep the runs
down, and by this time the opposing
team has scored nearly 1000 and won
the match.
“I have in my mind’s eye two men
who could most adequately fill the post
if only the one could be relied upon to
do the right thing at the proper time, and
if the other would keep off the cursed
drink. Notwithstanding these drawbacks,
each would be better than the always-
sober and too-energetic Giffen, for the
first could be bullied into taking advice
from the rest of the team and the second
could never get so drunk as to believe
himself eleven men.”
Harry Trott was named captain.
“Thanks,” he said, when apprised of the
appointment; “but for God’s sake don’t
give me a team of wives!”
There was great competition for the
post of manager. Harry Musgrove was
chosen from among 30 applicants. In
an address to the Australian public
James Edmond gave him some sage
advice: “He will find the post no sine-
cure,” wrote the author of A Journalist and
Two Bears. “He will often have to travel
day and night, and to drink with at least
60 people, and make about 30 speeches
daily, and every morning at three o’clock
go the round of the pubs and gather up
the drunks of the team, and on his
return be careful not to trip up the inebri-
ates who have accumulated on the pub
mats during his absence. Musgrove, as
manager of an opera co., has had experi-
ence of the eccentricities of ladies with
their golden hair a-hanging down their
backs, but he will find an Australian
cricket team on the loose in England
slightly different.
“For instance, there is one man who
has a sturdy theory that he cannot make
a score unless he has had six rums, several
long beers and sundry whiskies the night
before. Unless Musgrove exercises great
diplomacy, that batsman will go through
a window if interfered with in his pro-
gramme. The great qualities required in
a manager are discretion, a colossal thirst
and the power to settle brawls arising
from mixed drinks and jealousy; but a
man who has managed an opera com-
pany and is still alive deserves respect
anyway.”
Garrett, Bruce (not himself a candi-
date) and Giffen were the selectors. From
England, where Stoddart’s side had
beaten an All-England eleven cap-
tained by W. G. Grace, Murdoch
advised them strongly to send two
fast bowlers. “The batting this season,”
he wrote, “is exceptionally strong. The
A STUDY IN ATTITUDES.
The Premier was G.H. Reid.
old hands will be all there, and there is
a wonderful youngster at Cambridge, an
Indian. Kumar Shri Ranjitsinhji his
name is, but his mates call him ‘Smith’
and the crowd ‘Ramsgate Jimmy.’ Take
it from me, he is the finest batsman in
England.”
Along with Harry Trott, the selectors
picked Giffen, Hugh Trumble, Gregory,
Graham, Donnan, Iredale, McKibbin,
Harry, Johns, Darling, Jones and Eady.
Victorians roared at the exclusion of
Albert Trott, who had begun the season
by taking 6 for 77 against N.S.W., the
other four N.S.W. wickets costing 318.
Sydneysiders demanded that room should
be made for Turner and Kelly, “the
best bowler and the best wicketkeeper
in Australia” —“The Terror,” bowling
nearly all day, had bagged 6 for 35
against South Australia (400), and Kelly
had not given away a sundry. South
Australians considered the omission of
Clem Hill a foul insult to their country.
Cornstalks and Croweaters alike averred
that Johns was not even a wicket-
keeper’s bootlace, and that Harry would
. be basely flattered if picked for the blind
asylum team.
The fact was that Harry was about the
most versatile fellow that had ever
played cricket in Australia. He could
bat, bowl and field in any position, and
he was a marvel of agility at cover-point,
though turned 38. Yet he had never
bowled till he was 31, nor kept wickets
till he was 36. He sported one of the
few remaining beards to be seen on the
cricket field, and he never looked on the
beer when it was amber; but he lacked
tone or something, and it was decided to
drop him.
Harry had to be compensated, and
he modestly asked for £l5O. He was
given £l6O, and with that he went to
England on his own account, getting a
temporary job at Lord’s. An admirer
protested that he should have got at
least £l5O0 —“£5OO as his share of the
profits; £l5O for the loss of his billet
consequent on selection ; £5O to represent
the value of drinks refused during the
tour ; £3OO for pain of mind incident to
rejection and £5OO for losing the advan-
tages of education by travel.”
The original idea was that Harry was
to be second wicketkeeper. Johns was
relegated to that position after a trial
match, in which the Sydney crowd gave
him an appalling time, Kelly being picked
at the eleventh hour. So was Clem Hill.
The team as altered got away before
any more changes were made, and in all
respects it was the most successful com-
bination that had visited England since
1884. It travelled through England in
two reserved first-class carriages, put up
at the best hotels, was admitted to all
theatres on the presentation of cards (that
was Musgrove’s doing) and in most
places found the crowds enthusiastic and
sporting.
Lord Sheffield was its first host, the
opening match being against his lordship's
eleven at Sheffield Park. The match
lasted three days; the 14 players and
the manager were put up at the Hotel
Metropole at Brighton, Lord Sheffield
paying all expenses. He is said to have
been disappointed that the wine bill was
so small.
Be that as it may, the match was such
a social affair that it had to be drawn.
Musgrove turned out in a frock-coat and
top-hat and found himself the only
person thus garbed. Albert Edward,
Prince of Wales, was there in a brown
suit and a brown boxer. A candid ob-
server mentioned that “he had a far-off
expression in his eye, and his beard was
electroplated with early old age. As the
crowd cheered, he took off his hat, ex-
posing a glistening hairless nob.”
The Prince gave Harry Trott a flower
and cigar. The captain bit the end off
one weed and puffed it complacently;
the other he put in a pocket. Everything
passed off well, although Jones, bowling
to W. G. Grace, had hit the Old Man on
knee, thigh and ribs with his first three
balls.
Then came seven victories right off the
reel, an English eleven being beaten at
the Crystal Palace, Yorkshire at Shef-
field and Gloucestershire, in each case
with an innings to spare; Lancashire,
Oxford University, Essex and a Wembley
Park team at Wembley. In London,
Sheffield and Manchester the conquerors
were very well received by the spec-
tators ; oddly enough, the only barrack-
ing they got was at Oxford, and a Lon-
don newspaperman was the first to
object to it. “All the Oxford partisans,”
he wrote, “shouted as if they had never
before seen a wicket fall. Never in
an artisan district have I met with so
one-sided, unsportsmanlike and prejudiced
a crowd as this assemblage of ladies and
gentlemen. Never a cheer for the best
play of their opponents, loud and re-
peated plaudits when a score came from
an Oxford batsman’s snick or mishit.
When Hartley bowled Trott the ladies
were particularly jubilant.”
At Bramall Lane, Jones had had seven
of the Yorkshire side writhing on the
ground at different times, but the Shef-
fielders were quite philosophical about it.
The express got Peel first ball. Back in
the pavilion the little left-hander was
met by a sympathiser, who said: “Well,
old man, you’re soon out.” “Aye,” Peel
replied, “and domned glad, too.”
Then came a first appearance at
Lord’s —and humiliation. M.C.C. and
Ground was the opposing side, and the
Australians were beaten by an innings
and 18. That was the match in which,
for the first and last time, an Australian
XI was dismissed for 18, Pougher taking
5 for 0 and J. T. Hearne 4 for 4. The
wicket was not good, but it was not par-
ticularly bad, nor were the bowlers great.
It was simply a case of an inexplicable
collapse.
A drawn match with Yorkshire at
Leeds and a four wickets’ defeat at the
hands of Midland Counties at Birming-
ham preceded the first Test match at
Lord’s, and another failure. The Aus-
tralians, batting first, were all disposed
of for 53 (Darling 22, Gregory 14, Eady
10 not out; Richardson 6 for 39,
Lohmann 3 for 13). “This team ought
to be called the Trotters,” one of a
knot of Australian barrackers was heard
to groan. England made 292 (Abel 94,
Grace 66, Jackson 44, Gunn 25 ; Trott
2 for 13, Eady 3 for 58, Giffen 3 for 95).
Another innings defeat seemed very
likely when Trott (143) and Gregory
(103) came together. They put on 221
for the fourth wicket. Their plucky
achievement received generous recogni-
tion. A man who was present has re-
corded that “at each progressive point
of the score the applause rose and spread
in a thunderous canopy, accompanied by
loud cries of ‘Bravo! Bravo!’ No more
sportsmanlike spectators were ever
assembled round a pitch. There were
30,000 altogether, and for the most part
they sat under low, forward-sloping,
canvas-covered frames, resembling so
many myriads, of black-and-white ants
peeping out from under inverted spade-
blades.”
With Giffen (32) and Kelly (24 not out)
assisting, the score was taken to 347.
The Englishmen got the required 111 for
the loss of four good wickets, those of
Grace, Abel, Tom Hayward and Brown.
There followed five successes for the
Australians over Nottinghamshire,
Yorkshire, North of England, Hampshire
(by an innings and 125), and The Players
(by an innings and 137) —and a match
against Leicestershire, Pougher’s county,
was drawn. Incidentally, no match


RHEUMATISM SPREAD
TO ALL HER JOINTS
Ordered to Bed After
Months of Suffering
Here is a sad story of suffering, but it has
a happy ending. This woman was attacked
by severe rheumatism which spread to every
joint in her body and finally crippled her.
So great was her relief that she wrote this
enthusiastic letter:
“I feel it my duty to my fellow beings
to proclaim in a loud voice the merits of
Kruschen Salts in bringing wonderful relief
from a severe and obstinate attack of rheu-
matism. I had rheumatism in my legs and
knees, later spreading to every joint in my
body. This lasted over a period of 13 weeks.
I was then ordered to bed with acute rheuma-
tism. I was recommended to try Kruschen
and before finishing the second bottle I was
able to perform my normal duties.” —(Mrs.)
I.D.
Rheumatic conditions are the result of an
excess of uric acid in the body. Two of the
ingredients of Kruschen Salts have the power
of dissolving uric crystals. Other ingredients
in these Salts assist Mature to expel the dis-
solved crystals through the natural channels.
Take one minute now to sign
an application for life assur-
ance with the Equitable Pro-
bate and General Insurance
Co., Ltd. You will save your
wife and family many years
of hardship should you be
taken from them.
BE PROTECTED
EQUITABLE
PROBATE AND
GENERAL INSURANCE CO.LTD.
Head Office —371-373 Queen St., Brisbane.
IVingcllo House, Angel Place, Sydney
Collins House, Collins Street, Melbourne
R. V. PERKINS, General Manager
GLORIOUS SOUTH AFRICA
SOUTH AFRICA« , land of
perennial sunshine and abiding charm, where
countless delights await the visitor.
Although a country of vast distances, the prin-
cipal scenic, historic and industrial districts
can be speedily reached in the utmost comfort
by the renowned South African Railways.
On your next trip to England, travel
one way via “The Cape” and spend a
short holiday in South Africa.
BLUE FUNNEL
WHITE STAR-ABERDEEN
Joint Service to
SOUTH AFRICA & ENGLAND
For particulars apply Local Agents any capital city.
ST A
vis*
MWmL
Lt»
*fe
MS
=s^
BILLABONG
AUTO-
OILED
ENCASED
GEARED
WINDMILLS
BUILT TO WITHSTAND THE
ROUGHEST STORM
m
my
m
■
»
SENSITIVE TO THE SLIGHTEST BREEZE
EMBODIES ALL THE LATEST IMPROVEMENTS IN WINDMILL CONSTRUCTION
WRITE FOR ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES.
ft
A
e
>=?7“V\ L.TED ■
391-403 BOURKE STREET,
MELBOURNE, C.l,
and at
324-330 PITT ST., SYDNEY.
against Middlesex had been arranged.
This was ascribed to “the Walker-Webbe
influence,” then supreme in the affairs
of the county club. “V. E. Walker,’ it
was said, “is almost rabid in his dislike
for Australians.” He must have made
reservations, for A. E. Trott had arrived
in England and got a job with the
M.C.C. —at 30s. a week, £5 for a first-
class and £3 for a second-class match —
and it had been arranged that he should
qualify to play for Middlesex.
About this time an English newspaper
discovered that Jones was related to the
old nobility, and gravely recorded that
“Mr. Jones” had paid a visit to “his
uncle, the headmaster of the Whitford
School' near Holywell,” and had been
“the guest of another distant relative,
Lord Mostyn, at Mostyn Hall.” A*
laconic Australian comment on these
dutiful responses to the call of Norman
blood was “no more will ‘Jonah’ push
one end of a Government saw in the
Adelaide Exhibition ground”!
Jones strained his side in the second
Test match at Manchester, and after
bowling five overs in the Englishmen’s
first innings had to be taken off. It
didn’t matter much, for the batsmen rose
to the occasion at last, especially Iredale.
Iredale had begun the tour badly, his
scores in his first seven innings being 3,
0,0, 0,6, 0, 1. Then he struck form
and had a sequence of 94 not out, 22,
114, 94, 0, 106, 17, 10, 108. The 108
was made in the Test match, and, with
Giffen (80), Trott (53), Darling (27),
Kelly (27), McKibbin (28 not out),
Gregory (25) and Donnan (12) each
doing something, the score was 412 when
Richardson bowled the last man, Jones.
He had bowled unchanged for upwards
of three hours, taking 7 for 168, and his
last over was as fast as his first. No
express has ever been subjected to a
greater ordeal in a Test match, but it was
forced on W. G. Grace, the captain, be-
cause the Australians collared all the
other bowlers, Briggs, Jackson, J. T.
Hearne and “W.G.” himself.
The bearded veteran was so hard put
to it for trundlers that he threw the ball
to Lilley, the ’keeper. Lilley got a
wicket (Trott’s) for 23, He also had the
distinction of top-scoring for his side,
making 65 not out out of 231, Ranjit-
sinhji running him close with 62. McKib-
bin (3 for 45), Trott (2 for 46) and
Trumble (2 for 80) did most of the
bowling.
England followed on, and this time
Ranjitsinhji made a magnificent 154 not
out—more than half the score, which
was 305. Only Stoddart (41) stayed with
him for any length of time; Lilley
(19) and Brown (19) were the next
best. McKibbin came off again (3 for
61); Trumble pegged away usefully at
the other end, bowling 29 overs and tak-
ing 2 for 78 ; Giffen’s figures were 3 for
65 ; Jones’s (he bowled 17 overs) 2 for
78.
Richardson made a splendid attempt
to pull the match out of the fire. He
dismissed Iredale for 11, Darling for 16,
Giffen for 6 and Trott for 2. The posi-
tion now looked serious, though only 125
runs had been required and the wicket
was still good. Gregory (33) and
Donnan (15) made a bit of a stand, and
Hill’s 14 was useful, but Richardson
broke up both partnerships, and the
crowd reminded him with shouts that
only bowlers and the wicketkeeper were
left.
One of the bowlers, Trumble (17), and
Kelly (8) proved equal to the occasion,
and the Australians won by three wickets.
It was their first Test-match success in
England since 1888. Richardson took
6 for 76. Throughout he bowled 1104
overs, and he never tired and rarely sent
down a loose ball.
Kelly was a very useful man to the
Australians that July. He started the bat-
ting failure of the Englishmen by stump-
ing Grace and Stoddart off Trott, and in
the same innings he caught Brown
off Trumble and gave away only one
bye. In the second innings he stumped
Briggs and caught Hearne and kept the
extras down to six. Jim Kelly is still to
be seen in the members’ stand at the
Sydney Cricket Ground, and none of the
old hands takes a keener interest in what
is going on. His partner in the last tri-
umphant stand at Manchester remains an
important figure in Australian cricket as
secretary of the Melbourne C.G.
A manufacturer of confectionery from
South Melbourne had accompanied the
team about England, following its per-
formances in match after match with
blindly patriotic admiration..
At Manchester, while the Australians
were struggling to get the runs, he entered
their dressing-room with his invariable
salutation: “Where’s Harry?” A fiddle-
string-strung batsman lay on the floor
to avoid seeing how the game was going.
Propping himself up on his elbows, he
burst out with “Get out of this ornate
room! The last time you came in here
a crimson wicket fell and” —here an exul-
tant yell came through the window —
“there’s another.” Donnan was out.
The third Test match was played at
the Oval on a wet wicket. It wasn’t so
wet at the beginning as to prevent the
Englishmen making 69 for the first
wicket (Grace 24, Jackson 45), and that
stand virtually decided the rubber,
though splendid bowling by Trumble (6
for 59 and 6 for 30) kept the English
scores down to 145 and 84.
The Australians started even better
than their opponents had done, Darling,
first man in, making 47, and Iredale 30.
Unfortunately Iredale and Hill (1) were
run out. In other years Hill proved him-
self a great Test-match batsman, but in
that series his six efforts yielded only 30
runs.
As the match progressed, the wicket
grew worse; all the same there were
many who thought 111 was well within
the Australians’ compass. Not so Mur-
doch, who said “No man will make runs
against Peel and Hearne on that wicket” ;
and no man did. Peel got 6 for 23 and
Hearne 4 for 19 ; the only double-figure
scorer was McKibbin (16), who was last
man in. Had Graham been his old self
he might have made a difference, but
Graham, now a martyr to rheumatism,
had been omitted.
English critics allowed that the Austra-
lians had a bit the worse of the luck, and that
there was very little difference between
them and the Englishmen, strong as Eng-
lish cricket then was. Trott’s team played
34 matches ; it won 19, drew 9 and lost
6, but no county team beat it. Seven of
the 14 members made upwards of 1000
runs, Gregory getting the average with
1464 at 31.82, but Darling scored most
runs —1555 at 29.90. He had gone in first
in every one of his 33 innings. Four
bowlers did splendidly, McKibbin taking
101 wickets at 14.26, Trumble 148 at
15.81, Jones 121 at 16.03 and Giffen 117
at 19.29. And it was conceded that the
boys had behaved therriselves, and on
the day after the last match Musgrove
had a cheque for every one of them, to-
gether with a full and particular state-
ment of expenditure.
It was George Giffen’s farewell to
England, also that of Graham and Harry
Trott. Like McDonnell, Graham died
young ; and tragedy came to the jolly
Trott. He had a breakdown, and, leaving
hospital after a long and sad period,
found himself completely forgotten—so
much so that his first call was made on a
cobbler for repairs to his down-at-heel
boots. His brother Albert died by his own
hand just before war broke out; Harry
had predeceased him. Albert had been
a mainstay of the Middlesex county team
for many seasons, and had made a finan-
cial wreck of his benefit match by bowl-
ing the other side out twice in quick
time. Great cricketers and good-hearted
fellows, the Trotts deserved happier end-
ings.


“Globe T.”: The lady who was a
martyr to seasickness embarked on the
Taroona in Melbourne to sail for Tassie.
Having taken brandy and aspirin she
sought refuge in her bunk immedi-
ately on boarding the boat. But
all to no purpose. She was ill all night.
When the stewardess came in with the
cup of tea in the morning the hapless
traveller learned that the Taroona, too,
had had some internal trouble. In
fact, she had not even crossed the Rip,
and for the greater part of the night had
been tied up at the wharf.
* * * *
“Hillmorton”: Dr. Norwood, ex-head-
master of Harrow, besides telling us that
there were no playing-fields at Eton at
the time of Waterloo (B. 25/8/’37), ven-
tured the amazing statement that there
were no organised games at English
public schools before 1860. Tom Browns
School Days opens with a spirited ac-
count of a football match, School House
v. School, at Rugby, and if it wasn’t quite
the football we know to-day there was
certainly no lack of organisation. A
few years later we get an account of a
cricket match against no less formidable
a side than the M.C.C. Both these took
place in the ’thirties, when Thomas
Hughes was there. I might add that to
my own knowledge there is a pavilion
at Rugby wherein are enshrined the
names of the school’s cricket and foot-
ball teams for over 100 years past.
* S: * *
“Arthur R.”: Funny telegrams? I’ve
seen a few, but the most amusing was
from a countryman who was hitting
the high spots in the city. To his wife
he telegraphed: “Am wiring you five
pounds ; please forward a quid at once.”
* * :j: *
“S.W.”: The Yank may have his
visionary moments, but no one can tell
me he is not practical in essentials. Father
Divine, the American negro “Messiah,”
announced the other day that he was so
peeved by legal action being taken against
him for the recovery of contributions
from his followers that he had a darned
good mind to return at once to the Realms
of Bliss and leave the disgruntled ones to
stew in their own juice. Consternation
descended on all save one of the lawyers
who had issued a writ. He at once
applied for and was granted a Supreme
Court injunction restraining the holy one
“from leaving the jurisdiction.”
* * * *
“D.E.”: When doctors differ and a
patient is the subject, it is no laughing
matter for the latter ; but when doctors
differ with Billy Hughes the entire public
can get a bit of fun out of it. Bound-
ing into the infantile-paralysis argument,
our only Billy declared with all the wis-
dom of his 73 years that “complete im-
munity” could be “secured by the
excision or removal of the olfactory
nerves.” He wouldn’t go so far as to
suggest that the Australian nation should
voluntarily sacrifice its sense of smell,
but he put it to the nation that a high
degree of “temporary immunity” could
be “conferred by treatment of nasal pas-
sages and olfactory nerves with a solu-
tion of picric acid and alum.” Picric
acid is “an ingredient in certain ex-
plosives”—presumably the alum is put in
to neutralise the explosive effect and so
prevent a wholesale blowing-up of
smellers. “The treatment is simple,”
quoth Billy learnedly, “but doctors would
have to administer it.” “We should say
they would,” replied a chorus of medi-
coes ; and one went into details.
You have to spray a part of the nasal
passage quite high up and quite a long way
in. You have to hit that spot on each side
of the passage to put it out of action for
the time being. It can’t be done quickly,
and it must be done three times at least the
first week, and thereafter at least once a
week for about six months. And there is
nothing to show that the spraying will not
leave some ill effect which may be perma-
nent.
Rallying from the blow, Billy protested
that “the ill effects, if any, would be
slight (all chemicals are liable to have
some ill effects),” and handsomely ad-
mitted that “the treatment may not prove
effective.” Then he charged the enemy’s
position with horse, foot and artillery:
The position is that the medical profes-
sion has no effective remedy for infantile
paralysis and no prophylactic against it.
It can neither prevent the disease nor
cure it.
When I knocked off to go to the races
the disputants were still at it.
* * * *
“Maryell”: The great majority of Mel-
bourne children may be dark-eyed and
dark-haired (B. 4/8/’37), but for some
mysterious reason foundlings and the like
usually have fair hair and blue eyes. At
one of Melbourne’s best-known institu-
tions (where I trained as a nurse) there
were three fair-haired babies to one
brown-haired. Hair darkens with age,
but even the older children at an allied
orphanage kept to much the same pro-
portions. Of the eight schoolchildren I
“Did you go to Court when you Were in London?”
“Yes, auntie, and I Was only fined seven and six. The magistrate Was
a perfect old dear.”
was in charge of there last year four
were fair to snowy, two were red-haired,
one brown-haired and only one black-
haired. And, while on the subject, has
anyone ever seen a Je wish-looking
foundling?
4* 4* 4*
“Scorpio”: Apart from their distrust
of banks, the German farmers of the
Marburg (Q.) district (B. 18/8/’37) have
retained other national characteristics.
For several months past they have been
engaged in making their annual supply
of Deutsche Wurst. It is easily made.
Grind up an old pig, using pretty well
everything barring the hide and the
bones, cook over a slow fire, throw in
a few other ingredients, convert into
sausage, smoke well over any sort of wood
fire and hang in the darkest corner of the
kitchen to mature. The generous hos-
pitality of these people has forced me
to sample their national dish, but some-
how it violently disagrees with my non-
Teutonic stomach.
* * * $
“Siz”: I leave conclusions to the
psychologists ; here are the facts. Sydney
Stadium these days runs mixed boxing
and wrestling shows —three or four fights
and then the wrestling affair. When the
bill is all boxing, outside the wrestling
season, a sprinkling of women, of course,
is always there, but for these mixed
shows women make up a big part of the
house. Through the fights they sit
dumbly, staring •at the performance as
if to them boxing was something in a
foreign language; all the urging and
comments they leave to the common
male. As soon as the mats are being
spread for the" wrestling they begin to
come out of their trance; when the
wrestle is on their shrieking cuts the
heavy male noise like hundreds of knives.
Before the wrestle is over it’s odds on
that one of the ladies will be holding
the floor, her shrieks alone shrilling out,
the common male dividing his attention
between her and the performance in the
ring, and maybe wishing her strangled,
as painfully as possible. In many years
of attending sports of all kind I have
never heard anything quite so repulsive
—both to the eardrum and in content—
as these feminine performances.
* * * *
“4 x 2”: I haven’t read General
Crozier’s latest book, which has stirred
up such a controversy in England, but I
served in his command during the war. If
memory serves me it wasn’t an officer
whom he shot in the Somme attack ; it
was a sergeant who had gone temporarily
insane, and Cro. didn’t kill him —merely
brought him down with a bullet in the
leg. . The general’s latest effort is likely
to be frowned on by the War Office as
a discouragement to recruiting. The
author wrote an earlier book on the
Irish question, in which the underlying
suggestion was that the Irish command
should have been given to Gen. Crozier
and all would have been well. My most
vivid recollection of him is of a very
broad-in-the-beam officer bobbing about
on a horse.
* * * *
“H.8.T.”: In the “Service Depart-
ment” not long ago someone was ask-
ing about the names of the two moun-
tains abutting on the Burrenjuck dam.
I did all the theodolite work in the origi-
nal survey of that reservoir under James
Granter somewhere about 1896. The
two mountains were known as “Barren
Jack” and “Black Andrew” by the local
residents, for the reason that the former
was quite devoid of timber and the latter
was densely covered with a dark-green
mountain pine, which gave it a sinister
appearance under- stormy or rainy con-
ditions.
* $ * *
“Keg”: Being an employee, I hold no
brief for the transport base wallahs.
There is, however, ample justification for
the double fares on Sydney racecourse
trams. On an ordinary mid-week meet-
ing there are 27 cars in traffic, necessitat-
ing the employment of 81 drivers and
conductors. The proprietary clubs only
need to see a black cloud about 11 a.m.
and the department has to find the wages
for employees who are not required.
Even at Randwick, which seldom post-
pones, an elaborate network of lines and
bridges has been constructed, only to be
used a few days a year. The nature of
the work prevents the department from
utilising that staff for more than half
each race-day. The trams are on more
solid ground for the extra charge than
(say) a picture show doubling charges on
a Saturday night.
* * * *
“E.H.M.”: Whether they knew it or
not, people who ate “German saus-
age” purveyed in England in the pre-war
years were consuming horseflesh. Hun-
dreds of carcasses of aged and broken-
down horses were shipped to Germany
every month via Harwich; thousands
went to the same destination from other
parts of Europe. In fact, it is computed
that Dobbin supplied 50 per cent, of the
contents of that brand of sausage.
* * * *
“Betul”: Perhaps a little snappy ad-
vertising might help to popularise ham-
burgers in Adelaide (B. 18/8/’37). One
of the many Joes in St. Kilda (Vic.),
lures custom with the slogan “Eat more
or we will both starve.”
* * * *
“T.J.H.”: A recent paragraph men-
tioned the christening of Vic.’s new
streamlined locomotives after famous
■figures of the past, such as Edward Henty
and-Sir Thomas. Mitchell. < It might be
added that since 1934 more and more
Victorian locos, have preserved (unoffi-
cially) the name of yet another per-
sonality. Called “Ned Kellys” from the
unusual shape of their funnels, which
resemble the headpiece worn by the bush-
ranger, nearly 200 locos., many of which
haul trains through the “Kelly country,”
keep the memory of that celebrity green.
•i' , ' * , *
“Larj'akeah”: Bananas, eh (B.
18/8/’37>? In Darwin our pet emu lived
almost exclusively on-bananas, and feed-
ing 'him was like posting the long fruit
into a pillar box. His best effort was
eight dozen in .25 minutes. Even then
the bird was still willing, but the cup-
board was empty.
* * * *
“Oxmead”: A cable tells of the un-
earthing in County Down, Ireland, of
“an eyewitness’s account of the Battle
of the Boyne, written on parchment by a
Protestant clergyman.” The author’s
computation of the losses sustained by
the contending forces differs somewhat
from the figures given by most his-
torians ; he puts them down as 800 or
900 on the Irish side and 200 on the
English side, half of whom were Dutch.
Macaulay, while noting that “the
slaughter was less than on any battle-
field of equal importance and celebrity,”
estimated that the losers left about 1500
dead on the field and the victors not
more than 500. Whichever tally is cor-
rect, it is a curious reflection that a battle
on which such momentous issues hung
should have been won and lost with
such a comparatively small sacrifice of
human lives.
* * * *
“Avee”: Marketing venison seems a
sensible way of thinning out the National
Park deer (B. 18/8/’37). Like all red
meat, it improves with hanging, but to
say it must be high to be eatable is
pure exaggeration. Australians don’t
object to their beef being treated thus,
so there is no reason to suppose that
venison would be unpopular.
* * * *
“Uramao”: The M.L. Government,
which is trying hard to diminish the toll
of the motor on the roads, finds Maori
drivers something of a problem. One,
chugging along in the asthmatical old
bus, was halted by a traffic inspector and
directed to show the certificate licensing
Kim to drive. He handed the T.I. some-
thing resembling a piece of putty. “This,”
said the T. 1., “isn’t a license to drive a
motor-car.” “Oh yes, it is,” replied the
naive Henare. “Te wahine wash te
shirt when I take it off; t’at’s te license
all rite. It in te pocket.”
* * * *
“Illillangi”: In reply to “Maryell’s”
query (B. 11/8/’37) as to how many of
the 10,000 who saw Burke and Wills
set out from Melbourne on their ill-
fated expedition are alive to-day, I can
tell him of one. My grandmother, now
94, was among the crowd which gathered
at Royal Park on that occasion. But
her recollections of the leading figures
are misty. She describes Burke as a big
wild-looking fellow with a black beard,
credited with a terrible temper. Of
Wills she can remember nothing.
* * * *
“Fi Fi”: I nominate W. Hamilton, oi
Double Bay, Sydney, as The Bulletin’s
oldest reader (B. 8/7/’37). He has not
missed any of the 3002 issues thus fai
sold.
UPLIFT.
“Gowns will be more revealing this spring, and
skirts will be definitely shorter.” —Fashion note.
Undrape those legs again! Kick off the
drapery,
Clinging, voluminous, stuffy and queer!
Let’s see those legs again, plump ones or
tapery,
Jazz in brief kilts as you used to do, dear!
Banish the skirts that are fluffy and feminine,
Robbing the floor of its dust and its dregs
(Garb that the modern girl looks like a lemon
in),
And show us those legs!
Undrapc those legs again! Fashion sees charm
in them;
Ankles already have yanked themselves free*
Worth and Pitou and Celeste see no harm in
them —
Tisn’t for you to dispute their decree.
Let’s have your agile limbs freed from all
trammellings
(Dame Fashion bids it or, rather, she begs).
Get out the scissors and prune your apparel-
lings,
And show us those legs!
Undrape those legs again, rural or city ones,
Coyly displaying the knee and the calf;
There is allurement in each pair of pretty ones,
And in the others there’s always a laugh. I
Shake yourself free from superfluous lumber
you
Carry upon those symmetrical pegs;
Banish the frills that confine and encumber you,
And show us those 'legs.
VICTORIA.
SCOTIA.


Mm
/ i
ppiNP
WfijS@S
Wmm
Has 'FLU left you with
WEAK KIDNEYS?
THE ’Flu epidemic which has been with us this Winter has left
many people suffering with severe Backache. It is the Kidneys
which have been affected, and what is needed to put them right
again is a course of Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills.
A few hours after you begin taking Gin Pills the pains in your
back will ease, and will cease altogether in a day or two.
But don’t stop at this—continue taking Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills
for at least a week, so as to make certain that the Kidneys have a good
flushing out, and so that any trace of weakness or inflammation will
be remedied.
You will then be secure in the knowledge that your Kidneys have
regained their health, and that Backache, Rheumatism, Stiff, Swollen
Joints, Lumbago or Sciatica will not make your life a misery.
Anyone can take Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills —their composition is such
that they cannot help but do you good. They are backed by a reputa-
tion of over 25 years, during which time they have brought thousands
of one-time sufferers back to health again.
Act at Once
If ’Flu has left you with pains in your back, you will be very
wise if you begin a course of Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills to-day.
27 Pffls 1/9—60 PUIs 2 9.
D£ SHELDON'S
IN PILL
How to fight
’FLU and COLDS
Public
Enemy
No.
1
IO
m
\
With
the
Aid
of
DoiibleD
feucaliffitud SxPmct
Here is a new way a better way
—of fighting ’Flu and Cold germs.
How to PREVENT
'Flu and Colds .
Every morning sprinkle a few
drops of Double “D” on your
handkerchief. Each time you
use your handkerchief you
will then inhale the powerful
antiseptic vapors of Double
“D” which are so destructive
to ’Flu and Cold germs.
Every night sprinkle a few
drops of Double “D” on your
pillow, so that while you sleep
Double “D” will continue its
work of protection.
How to SMASH
'Flu and Colds.
1 —TAKE 3 drops of Double
"D” on a lump of sugar.
2- Double “D”
thoroughly into chest and
back.
3- 16 drops of
Double “D” in a jug of
hot water.
Stop in bed, and continue this
three-way Double “D” Euca-
lyptus treatment, and you will
smash your ’Flu in record
time. Double “D” is the
purest and strongest Euca-
lyptus sold in Australia.
Every drop of Double "D” Eucalyptus is double
distilled, and is guaranteed to be entirely free from
Phellandrene; to contain over 70 p.c. Eucalyptol
(Cineol), and to conform in every way to the latest
British Pharmacopoeia standard.
FOOTBALLERS! Le t
Double “D” keep your
muscles fit.
Don’t give Public Enemy No. I
a chance.
Buy your bottle of Double “D”
now.
ķ
9d . Enormous Safes —I<3.
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK'S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
ĸ
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS ...!
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
i
;<r
t 4&* '
<**•
?*%<* #
0
0
o°%
S®
9'
°
\\
\\®
(V^S 2 '
\° 'V^S^V’
v^-
VI-


THE MUTUAL LIFE ANU CITIZENS’
ASSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
FOUNDED 1886.
The M.L.C. maintains its Ordinary Branch
bonus rates 1936.
Examples: Whole of life policy, age 25 at entry: Reversionary Bonus
for first year £2—s—o per cent,, increasing to £4—2—o per cent,
for the 30 th year.
Endowment Assurance policy, maturing at age 60, age 25 at entry:
Reversionary Bonus for first year at £ 1 18—0 per cent., increasing
to £3 —2—o per cent, for the 30th year.
REASONS WHY THESE RESULTS ARE POSSIBLE:
1 The Company’s powerful reserves and the assets covering them are
unsurpassed for strength in Australia. 84 per cent, of the
assets of over £25,000,000 consist of Government, Municipal
and Local Body Loans and Loans on Policies.
2 The mortality experienced, due to careful selection of risks, is
extraordinarily light.
Q The Company is managed efficiently, and always has been. Last
year the expense rate was 10 per cent, of the total income.
The rate of interest earned on the funds and reserves exceeds
5 per cent. The rate assumed in valuing the Company’s
liabilities is per cent., leaving a margin of more than
2 X P er cent, for profit.
ANNUAL INCOME EXCEEDS £3,500,000.
PAYMENTS TO POLICYHOLDERS EXCEED £33,000,000
ARTHUR M. EEDY, C.8.E., Managing Director.
W. J. BLOOMFIELD, 8.A., LL.B., Joint Managing Director.
Temporary Head Office (during rebuilding):
Hosking House, Hosking Place (off Castlereagh Street), Sydney
or off 86 Pitt Street, Sydney.
