

the Gmtpletelif /Ves& 1937
HUDSON
122 Inch and 129 Inch Wheelbases ... 101 and 122 Developed Horsepower
"You can’t get a finer car ... no matter what you pay!”
m\
1]
mm
I
mm
m
m
8883S888&safffi^^
Performance . . -
Endurance ...
Economy ...
Proved
Before Public Announcement
A new 1937 Hudson, picked at random
right off the production line bejore pub-
lic announcement . . . w.ent through the
equivalent of years o f punishment in the
most gruelling test ever given a stock
car ... on the famous Utah Salt Flats,
where Sir Malcolm Campbell made
motoring history in his Bluebird.
2104 MILES IN 24 H.OURS
32 OFFICIAL RECORDS BROKEN
(Averaging 87.67 miles per hour)
Supervision American Automobile Association
Contest Board, Utah Salt Flats, U.S. A., Oct., 1936
I,n economy tes.ts on the Salt Flats, Hud-
son made equally impressive mileage
records, also under Contest Board super-
vision. See the duplicate of this record-
breaking" Hudson today!
e
Here are completely new Hudson Sixes and Eights for
1937! Some car was bound to take these 3 Big Steps
Ahead .. . some day! But why wait ? Hudson, already
far ahead in size and style and power, has done it
NOW!
A Big Step Ahead in
DRIVING AND RIDING COMFORT
. . . with Hudson’s new Selective Automatic Shift.
No need to push a clutch pedal or tug at a hand gear
lever. Yet you shift smoothly and surely at any engine
or car speed you desire. An optional extra on all
models. A step ahead in riding, too . . . with lower
centre of gravity for maximum steadiness at any speed.
A Big Step Ahead in
STYLE AND ROOM
. . . with new bodies, on longer wheelbases . . . lower,
wider, roomier. A front seat with 55 full inches of
solid comfort for three. Higher, wider doors. And in
quality of fabrics, smartness of tailoring, richness of
equipment, these interiors match the luxury leaders of
motordom regardless of price!
A Big Step Ahead in
PERFORMANCE
. . . already proved in the most gruelling test ever
given a stock car. Even greater power, with the
smoothness and flexibility that only Hudson owners
know. And proved ' economy, too . . . certified after
rigid tests under Contest Board supervision.
• . •
There's no knowing all that Hudson is and does until
you drive this super car of 1937. Come in to-day.
Discover how much Hudson’s 3 Big Steps Ahead mean
to you. We’ll let the car do most of the talking!
CARS BUILT BY
HUDSON
N.S.W. DISTRIBUTORS:
DALGETY and COMPANY LIMITED
(Incorporated in Englandl
136 PHILLIP STREET, SYDNEY
QUEENSLAND DISTRIBUTORS:
McINTOSH MOTORS PTY. LIMITED
Desmond Chambers
Adelaide Street, BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND
AUTHORISED DEALERS
VICTORIAN DISTRIBUTORS:
NEAL'S MOTORS PTY. LTD.
140-144 Exhibition Street,
MELBOURNE, C.l.
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN DISTRIBUTORS:
MOTORS LIMITED
30-38 Flinders Street, ADELAIDE
(Also 145 Gawler Place, Adelaide)
AT ALL MAIN
WESTERN AUSTRALIAN DISTRIBUTORS:
MORTLOCK BROS. LTD.
914 Hay Street, PERTH
TASMANIAN DISTRIBUTORS:
H. C. HEATHORN & CO. LTD.
53-73 Bathurst Street, Brisbane Street,
HOBART LAUNCESTON
COUNTRY CENTRES
The Bulletin
Famous Fighters “Grif)fo ”
Vol. 58.- No. 2978.
Wednesday, March 10, 1937.
Price 6d.
Eegistered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


DYMOCK’S LIBRARY CATALOGUE
with terms and particulars, will be sent
post free to any address on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
“The Block,”
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
è
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne,
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write jor Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
My Address
S.B. 137
S. H. Prior Memorial Prize
Third Competition, Closing June 6, 1937.
Full particulars of this annual literary award will be published
here from time to time, or may be had on application to The
Bulletin, 252 George-street, Sydney.
For this current competition only novels are eligible, and the
Prize will be awarded to that which is considered the most
outstanding contribution to Australian literature.
The trustees will publish the successful work in book form,
and in serial form any they may deem worthy. If published as a
serial the winner will be paid for at serial rates in addition to the
prize-money. Any others used as serials will also be paid for at
serial rates.
Any bona fide Australian resident or any person born in
Australia, New Zealand or British South Pacific islands will be
eligible to enter for the competition works which must be the
original work of the entrants, and previously unpublished, either
wholly or in part, in book or serial form. Manuscripts must be
submitted under a nom de plume, and the true name and address
of the author must accompany each entry in a sealed envelope,
which will not be opened until the judges have made their decision.
The trustees reserve the right to withhold the Prize if no work
submitted is, in the opinion of the judges, worthy of an award.
If this should occur in any year, the amount of the Prize will be
added to the following year’s Prize.
The Red Page
From "Our Earth."
You are the spring, O Love, whose golden wing
touches me in the frosty nights with warming
long lustrous impulse ere the stars are gone,
and wakes me again the farther side of dawn
with baffling secret sly round-reaching caress,
melting the new-found loneliness with a breath
of the flame you carry, a sword, a sword to smite
the cold blue heart of childhood into flower.
This spring is love, the purpose-time of all:
the young bull, scarcely set, tries the tree flanks
with horns ambitious; from his wouridy nostrils
starts forth the flame of the season, which new g ass
trembles and shrinks to feel; and the moist ear:h
revirginate even at his walking bursts,
as it were with plenteous blood beneath his splays,
or like a ready fruit to the birds’ bills.
He walks his field; and I as restlessly
walk up and down my heart, that palaces
me solitary there, and echoes me.
KENNETH MACKENZIE.
Kenneth Mackenzie's Poem.
Most writers of love-poems have a more or less
fine and careless indifference for consequences ; it is
remarkable how many of them, having achieved their
ends, leave the reader or the object of their affections
literally to carry the baby. It is so remarkable that,
trying to think of anything in English like Kenneth
Mackenzie’s poem Our Earth (illustrated by Norman
Lindsay ; Angus and Robertson), I can remember only
a suggestion of it in Keats’s last poem, a line which
is a poem in itself:
Pillowed upon my fair love’s ripening breast;
(the operative word being “ripening”); whereas Mac-
kenzie has devoted about twelve hundred lines to
this subject; he has made of it what you might call
a gigantic verse madrigal in which the First Voice
is the Seasons, Spring, Summer, Autumn‘and Winter,
the Second Voice is the Love-song, and the Third
Voice declaims against the machine-life of the city.
The poetry represents an experience which is
complete right through the life of the poei\ and this
is obvious from the poem ; it is the most pure creative
statement a man could make ; he has made something
positive, and he can always build on something posi-
tive. Maybe the reason why Eliot and so many others
petered out is that a poetry of the Negative Impulses
soon reduced itself to a vacuum. “All classicism,”
says Valery, “presupposes a foregoing romanticism”;
that is, classicism is little more than a clean-up of
the romantic stables. Perhaps Mackenzie is leading
a romantic revival here, when Australia is just begin-
ning to wake Up to the English classical influences of
the past twenty years.
For to anyone acquainted with contemporary
poetry, its wit, its brevity, its formal freedom, its
addiction to one-night cheap hotels and its dry nega-
tion of everything that has to do with fertility, this
poem, calm, long, almost regular pentameter, pastoral
and affirmative, will seem either too old-fashioned or
too new. The fact is the author is quite aware of
what has been done, and is developing himself by
himself, and he has reason: a command of what we
agree to call pentameter which has something of the
fullness and ease of Keats:
and soft roots explore
with amorous fingers that poor pride that lingers
about those fallen and unlovely walls
that once so boldly kept out cold from men;
Line after line slips easily into place, and the words
“about those fallen and unlovely walls” seem as
though they had found one another at last.
Above all, his handling of five beats to a line is
calm and quiet; whereas to most poets pentameter
comes hard; it will either rant and roar or stumble
along clutching at lamp-posts ; the ease Mackenzie
has with pentameter is a silver spoon he was born
with ; it is the grand style in English: with it, a poet
can do anything; but without it he can do only some
things. Even Roy Campbell, who uses this metre
marvellously, has not the gift of using it easily.
Mackenzie writes it off line by line in novel-size
publishers’ dummies in such small handwriting that
he gets about a hundred lines to the page, and with
hardly a correction:
Leaf after leaf springs forth into the air
as each cold dawn melts upwards into noon
whose choking honied warmth gathers and flows
down channels of the afternoon, and drips
over the edge of light into the engulphing dusk
And if this next piece is reminiscent of books and
running brooks it is yet an example of his command
of blank verse:
No matter, love; the season makes us one,
full of one ripening purpose, with one faith,
to recreate, and borrow from the day
its wealth and temper; from the night its calm;
light from the sun and stars; silence from the noon
and life "eternal from all summer.
And this is clouds in autumn:
Clouds that passed over
purple and slow above the stubbled earth
come once again, and wait, like gods’ herds
that want the milking, patiently and heavy:
where the metaphor is more than a conceit, since it
conveys the full and warm feeling for which the
whole poem is so remarkable.
Having decided on a long poem, Mackenzie
has done very well indeed; but he could not avoid
the inevitable failing of any long poem that is not a
story that it will not develop the reader’s interest.
All stories depend on your wanting to know what
happened next, or they increase your interest in the
people they are about:, they develop. Of course the
development is here, in the progress of the seasons
and in the progress of childbirth ; but the progress is
more in nature than in the work: from time to time
Mackenzie has to dramatise himself into soliloquies
to explain how his own description of the seasons is
affecting him and to inform the girl how she is feeling
—always an awkward problem, always brought up
when the poem is a subjective monologue.
The problem should push him into story-telling
or play-writing ; by modulating the medium he com-
mands so well into contemporary cadences, he could
re-establish these legitimate functions of poetry.
RONALD MCCUAIG.
A Picturesque Early Maorilander.
Robin Hyde is the pseudonym of one of Maori-
land’s most talented women writers. Her first book,
a series of Inky Way reminiscences, was bright in
outlook but parochial in scope. Then she got hold
of a vagabondish ex-soldier, J. O. Starke, and under
the title Passport to Hell wrote an account of his
adventures, in war and peace, that earned plaudits
from English and Scottish reviewers, and ran into
five editions in four months. Robin swallowed, or
pretended to swallow, Starke’s artistic narratives bait,
hook and sinker. She comes into print again in a
much more critical spirit.
The new book is Check to the King (Hurst and
Blackett; 7s. 6d.), a biography of that Charles, Baron
de Thierry, who played a brief but picturesque part
in Maoriland’s early history. The authoress has had
access_ to Thierry’s own account of his Attempt to
Colonise New Zealand and to many of his letters,
and from these she has essayed, after the manner of
Prof. Owen and the moa, to reconstruct the man,
who, seen through her eyes, is a queer bird —part
Wilkins Micawber, part steadfast martyr, part poseur.
Thierry, born in London of a noble family, was
a natural entrepreneur. In his early career, which was
under kindly stars (he was in the diplomatic service,
and later held a commission in an English regiment),
his flair for promoting was kept under, but thereafter
he gave it full leash. Long before De Lesseps’s day
Thierry obtained a charter to dig the Panama Canal.
. Of course it came to nothing. Charles’s schemes had
a way of going agley. He bought his New Zealand
kingdom through the agency of the Rev. Thomas
Kendall —that Anglican missionary whose goings-on
with the Maori girls caused so much perturbation to
Sam Marsden. Kendall received from Thierry £lOOO.
What he did with it Kendall alone knew, but he kept
his bargain with Thierry. For thirty-six axes he got
a title deed—as sound as any title granted by Maori
chiefs in those days— to 40,000 acres ; all that part
of Maoriland north of Kaipara Harbor. Charles
intended to go there and devote his life to civilising
and benefiting the Maoris.
Many years passed before the Baron entered into
his kingdom, and when he did set out he got there
by slow stages, tarrying to become for a time King
of Nukahiva, in the Marquesan group, then an
unspoilt paradise. On arrival in M.L. Thierry imme-
diately fell foul of Mr. Busby, the British Resident,
and of Lieut. McDonnell, who had been Busby’s
assistant but had resigned to garner fat pickings out
of debauching and swindling the Maoris and anybody
else he could prey upon. McDonnell had “jumped”
the best part of Thierry’s land claim, and at the outset
enticed away from the Baron almost all the pro-
spective settlers Charles had brought with him.
But Thierry had courage and manliness. The
Maoris, or some of them, liked and respected him.
They could appreciate an aristocrat, particularly a
rather childish, optimistic, liberal-handed aristocrat,
so Charles was able to hang on to a small vestige of
his kingdom (he called himself Sovereign Chief of
New Zealand) at Mount Isabel, named after his
dearly-loved daughter. But the Waikato Wars broke
out. The insurgent Maoris begged Thierry either to
lead them himself or to give them his flag. While
they were in parley Thierry sent Isabel to chop the
flag into little pieces, and then told the Maoris (and
angry men they were) that he would never wage war
on white men nor lend his flag to such a war. The
Maoris, after a tense moment, gave up the notion of
massacring the Thierry family and instead gave them
a safe conduct to Auckland. There Thierry taught the
harp and the piano (he was an accomplished musician),
and there he died, a rather sad old gentleman, but one
with many gorgeous memories.
That is the bald outline of the story Robin Hyde
tells, and she tells it well. She sees Thierry’s weak-
nesses very clearly, but she loves them rather more
heartily than she appreciates his finest qualities. She
sets out to write in the acid style of Carlyle in his
historian’s cloak, but as soon as she has to picture
Charles and his family—and especially Isabel —the
dry auld Scot is replaced by something very close
to the warm-hearted, intensely sentimental Charles
Dickens.
This book is good, honest history, and it is written
with sincerity, affection and enthusiasm. The spirit is
that of the best sort of reporter—the sort that never
grows up, never gets tired of the changing scene,
understands, sympathises, and leaves judgment to the
blokes that write the leaders.
ARTHUR D. WYLIE.
Revolution Devours Its Children.
In effect, We the Living, by Ayn Rand (Cassell;
Angus and Robertson; Bs. 6d.), is an indictment of
the revolutionary method of alleviating social wrong.
It supports the idea that the ethical state of which
men dream can only be achieved slowly; that a
handful of intellectuals engineering a revolution on
behalf of a people accustomed to tyranny may accom-
plish a little for their material betterment, but only by
a continuation of tyranny.
It is a story of disillusionment, told from the
viewpoint of the girl, Kira, daughter of an upper-
middle-class family, who had two lovers, one a son
of a former admiral, a counter-revolutionary, and
the other a son of the people and a minor official
of the Soviet Government. The characters are all
obscure persons, and the impression is that Russian
social and political life is shown in its effect on the
people.
It begins with Kira’s family’s return from the
Ukraine, where they had fled from Leningrad during
the revolution. Her father, a textile manufacturer,
clings to a belief that the old order will be restored.
“Europe won’t put up with it. Wait till England
takes action.” Equally pathetic is the family’s meet-
ing with their relations who remained in Leningrad
during the fighting. The older ones cling to their
belief in the impermanence of the new Government,
the men haughtily—and hungrily—refusing employ-
ment under it.
Then comes the story that is the justification of
the book’s title. The thrust of life is strong in the
new generation, and it must be taken up under
changed conditions. Circumstances —necessity and
personal inclination —tend to break down hostilities
between persons sympathetic to either the old order
or the new. They are more or less all in together.
But the revolutionary dream of Communism has run
against the hard facts of reality. The New Economic
Policy is an admission of partial defeat. The Govern-
ment can accommodate under its sheltering wing only
pure Red chickens. There are purges in all the trade
unions—purge after purge.
By this time the young people, singly and in
couples, proletarian and ex-bourgeois, have taken up
life on a basis of food queues, a primus cooker in
whatever huddled quarters are assigned them and
wages from which large deductions are made as
enforced contributions for social propaganda. The
partial breakdown of the economic system results in
a widespread breakdown of private moral. One
character marries a proletarian girl to strengthen his
union standing. “Marriage for reasons of State is
an institution as old as humanity. One always marries
into the ruling class.” Bourgeois parentage is an
offence- in the eyes of a purging committee; friend
informs on friend, each to save himself. The bour-
geois counter-revolutionary movement is a thing of
the past; conditions have bred a proletarian counter-
revolutionary movement. But the purgers are sharp,
and most people dare not even think critically of the
Government for fear of inadvertently revealing them-
selves in an unguarded word.
It is hard to live. Family loyalties break down
to the extent that a brother will furnish information
against the man his sister has married. The limited
readmission of private trading, particularly in food,
breaks down official morale. There are graft and
profiteering through hidden deals with speculators.
Aghast in the midst of this stand the lesser revolu-
tionaries, the men who believed in ideal Communism,
who did the bombing and bayoneting with their own
hands. Two of them commit suicide —one from
disillusionment; the other because steadfast adher-
ence to his ethical principles leaves him with a choice
only between that and the firing squad. The dictator-
oContinued on page 8.)


"TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”—Business Integrity.
‘THE SENIOR STORE:
ANTHONY HORDERNS
ELECTRICAL HOUSEHOLD AIDS
THE NEW “LEONARD
5215 ;
★ ELECTRIC REFRIGERATOR
—Think what a convenience one of these Electric Refrigerators will
mean in your household . . . the preparation of delicious cold dishes will
n ® l° n ger be a problem, and food can be kept fresh and wholesome in
the hottest weather. The new ‘ Leonard” Refrigerator is entirely automatic
- option, requires little attention and is economical. In a beautiful
cabinet with ample storage space, sliding shelves and interior lighting.
Models priced from £52/15/-
THE WORLD RENOWNED
VACUUM CLEANER
THE "GRAND PRIZE"
"E U R E K A”
£lBlB-
- 03 —This Vacuum Cleaner is a complete house-cleaning
plant. It sweeps, cleans, disinfects and polishes. Its
extra powerful suction draws out deeply-embedded dirt
from carpets and removes moth larvae. No amount' of
sweeping does this. It is an efficient floor polisher and
has a special attachment for disinfecting and moth-
proofing. It is extremely easy and economical to use.
At Anthony Horderns’ £lB/18/-
Q List of Attachments,
(a) Detachable Broom-action Floor Brush.
(b) Sanitor, for disinfecting, (c) Two Brushes
for cleaning upholstery. (d) Extension Tube
and Pipe for blowing dust from inaccessible
places. (d) Brushes for cleaning curtains,
(f) Attachment for cleaning in crevices.
m
m
HI
WHY NOT USE
THE D.P.S.?
THE “UNI”
WASHING MACHINE
■m.
X • X
«81l
# Welded Steel
Frame
# Three-fin Gyrator
Horse-power
Motor
# Full Year's
Guarantee
INVALUABLE TO THE
MODERN HOUSEWIFE
B 1 02 —Wash-day is no longer a dread to the housewife who
owns a “Uni” Washing Machine. This Electric Washing
Machine uses the simplest principles to make washing easy.
It is complete with automatic safety wringer, green mottled
porcelain tub and machine-cut gears throughout. At
Anthony Horderns’ £27/10/-
MAGNET”
é
ê
8104 The “Magnet”
Electric Fan gives a cool
refreshing summer breeze at
the snap of a switch. It is
British made and suitable
75-
for home or office use. A fan we recommend
for years of dependable service.
Sizes, inches 10 Rigid. 10 Oscillating.
At Anthony Horderns’: 75/- £5/5/-
These are Ideal for
the Motorist
AUTO
PICNIC
HAMPERS
25 7 9
8105 —Popular Model, comprising
two English Vacuum Flasks, two
Sandwich Tins, four Firm-grip
Mugs, four Teaspoons and Basket.
Price, 14/11. Also De Luxe Model.
Comprises the same items as Popu-
lar Model, with four Plates, one
Milk Bottle and Sugar Jar in addi-
tion. Price 25/9
■ Im •
GENUINE THERMOS
VACUUM FLASKS
8106 English-made Flasks that
will give years of service. Fitted
with “Strong Glass” patented re-
fills. Two-cup size in Japanned
case, Price 5/-. With Japanned
and N.P. top, 9/6. In Bakelite
case, 16/6. Four-cup size in Japanned case, 9/6.
With Japanned and N.P. top, 16/6. In Bakelite
case, 25/-.
# Electrical Goods —New Ground Floor, Pitt Street.
Free delivery City and Suburbs only.
I
ë


"What IS the Safest Place in a Thunderstorm?”
THUNDERSTORMS
ILLUSTRATED BY ARIA .
BY
LES
ROBINSON
WHEN it seemed to me that the mountain at the
foot of which I lived was bending over
towards me more and more daily, thus
increasing the likelihood of colossal boulders,
perched precariously on its sides, crashing down upon
my roof, and the volume of the waterfalls that thun-
dered upon it in wet weather, I decided to seek a
more elevated abode.
Unstinted, disquieting and incriminating evidence
was abundant that it was not for the want of
trying those rocks had failed to squash the place
flat, for quite a lot of them, some unpleasantly
close and of immense size, lay scattered about. And
that no direct hit had been secured was due to what?
To the fact, perhaps, that I had been in the habit of
blowing the light out early and keeping quiet. But
there was always the possibility, nevertheless, that
the marksmanship of the mountain might improve.
So I sought, and I sought, and ultimately found
another domicile, this time so high up as to be only
dimly discernible in favorable weather through a tele-
scope. And I had no sooner moved into it than my
spirits rose proportionately, but they didn’t remain
in the ascendant long. There was, I soon began to
feel, despite the exhilarating atmosphere and an
extensive view of serene landscape spread out below,
something inhospitable and forbidding about the
plateau and the solitary shack thereon, built entirely
of galvanised iron—in which, as I knew of no other
that I could move into just then, even if I had
refrained from paying rent in advance and from
promising to remain for some time, I would have to
live, no matter what or how considerable its disad-
vantages or whether there were things about it that
repelled me or not.
The few dead and gaunt trees on it —the plateau
being otherwise as bare-looking as the surface of the
moon —were twisted as though in agony, blackened,
scarred and maimed. There was a kind of dark
brooding, a grim expectancy, about them, and indeed
about everything up there, which intensified and
became oppressive whenever the sky was overcast or
heavy clouds appeared on the horizon. The plateau,
I should not forget to mention, consisted mainly of
ironstone, and a gigantic lump of it, as though by a
giant’s axe, had been split asunder.
'T'HE shack had the musty, mildewed smell of a
habitation long untenanted. It trembled often, as
though nerve-ridden, and made, from time to time,
startled, disconcerting and staccato sounds. Ripples
such as those which agitate horses’ shoulders —though,
il I guessed rightly, the shack’s were always of appre-
hension —seemed to run down its walls and across the
roof for no apparent reason whatever every now and
then.
Of what was it afraid, I wondered uneasily. I
was soon to find out, for, while still wondering, I
heard a rain-bird’s melancholy and pessimistic note.
It entirely lacks sincerity is, indeed, mere profes-
sionalism, in my opinion—for the bird, though I sus-
pect it of being misanthropic, is not lugubrious or
a pessimist at all, really. There was a time when I
believed it the friend of man, thought that its sole
object in life was to give him fair warning of approach-
ing foul weather. I am of that opinion no longer.
I believe, instead, that it is in league with the storms,
and that its hobby is to deliberately mislead by
uttering warnings too late to be of any use, or a few
times without anything happening at all, so that
listeners will get into the habit of taking no notice
whatever and, in consequence, be caught, sooner or
later, to the storm’s and the storm-bird’s saturnine
delight, unprepared.
Though I always detested their crass, blatant and
cacophonous volubility, I would have taken more
notice of ducks, which often become exceedingly
restless before a thunderstorm. Donkeys, too, are
supposed to foretell the approach of heavy rain by
braying more loudly, fervently and often than usual.
This talent, in their case, is an ancestral legacy
evidently, for the leader of a herd of wild, cartless
and deplorably useless asses is in the habit, according
to zoologists and explorers, of gathering it round him
when bad weather impends.
Some people strip the clothes-line, put on their
goloshes and take an umbrella with them when they
go out if they hear frogs and toads croaking, or are
aided in forming an opinion of what the weather is
likely to be by the behavior of ants, flies, crickets,
spiders, birds, snails, tortoises, certain kinds of fish,
or by that of mechanical contrivances of one kind
or another. Others pin their faith to the pronounce-
ments of professional weather-prophets.
T MYSELF am the possessor of an old, pampered,
* exceptionally large and trusted bunion which never
once, in its predictions that the behavior of the ele-
ments was about to be a nuisance to those exposed to
them, has deceived me. And. as it was now aching
furiously I knew that the worst and most cataclysmic
of disturbances was fast approaching.
A ghastly pallor, as though from a sick moon,
illumined the plateau, but soon the sky turned black
as ink. Hastily I got into bed. Had I not read some-
where that it is the safest place in a thunderstorm?
Yes, but surely not an iron one like mine.
I removed my watch from under the pillow and
the tobacco-tin in which I keep my loose change
from under the mattress also. It was advisable, I
thought, to get rid of as much metal as possible. How
is it that warships, constructed as they are almost
wholly of steel, never get struck by lightning?
What is the safest place in a thunderstorm? What
did that electricity-supply company say in the
pamphlet on the subject I read in the dim long ago?
I couldn’t remember. Consecutive thought was
in any case no longer possible, for suddenly, after a
brief period of dead, ominous, oppressive and almost
tangible silence, so thick it seemed, the storm, with
a roar like that of a railway-train on a bridge which
spans some vast ravine, burst round, on top of and,
as I might easily have imagined, under my wretched
and craven domicile as well.
Now I had without complaining borne the brunt
of many a thunderstorm, but never one like this
before. Lightning, forked, vertical, horizontal,
straggling like grass-roots, zithered, criss-crossed,
zigzagged and stabbed left, right and in all
directions viciously, the resultant explosions being
most terrifying. A tornado with missiles in
the shape of hail and rain far more than suffi-
cient for a bombardment unlimited in magnitude
and of indefinite duration whizzed, swirled round,
rocked, tore at and lashed the shack, dealt it resound-
ing blows, seemed bent upon lifting it from its founda-
tions and flinging it high into the air—and indeed at
times to succeed in this endeavor and to shake it as
a dog shakes a rat before dropping it none too gently
back again. But, thanks to a former occupant who
expected, and was in the habit of preparing for, the
worst, evidently, the legs of the bed were firmly
fastened to ringbolts in the floor. So by clinging
tightly to the sides I was able to remain in it.
Were the voices those of sea-birds or of Valkyries
I seemed to hear among the multiplex and tumultuous
ones of the convulsed, frenzied and warring elements?
Occasionally, too, there was a colossal rumbling “Ha,
ha, ha!” a most eerie sound, as of cosmic or titanic
laughter, which I was entirely at a loss to account
for. It made the shack tremble more violently, if
possible, than ever, and me, though perspiring pro-
fusely, shiver.
D UT it was the pauses—for every now and then
there occurred a brief cessation of hostilities, as
though the storm was gathering its forces for a fresh
onslaught or planning a more formidable and deci-
mating mode of attack —that were most nerve-racking.
I was horrified to observe during one of them that a
blue flame, like that of methylated spirits when
ignited, was flickering round my big toe (the right
one), which was protruding, as usual, through a hole
in the sheet. The flame was, however, devoid of heat,
apparently, for it proved no hindrance to the mos-
quitoes, greedily feasting. My hair stood on end and
cold chills ran up and down my spine. Was I, I won-
dered, without actually being struck by lightning,
about to be converted by the atmosphere, supercharged
with electricity, into an electro-magnet and therefore
into a perpetual nuisance to mariners as well on
account of the deflecting effect I would have upon
their compasses?
Some storms have destinations, presumably, which
they seem in great haste to reach, but not this one.
With the plateau and shack as its axis, it revolved
and raged for hours.
And the way that old hut trembled! It was not
only afraid of thunderstorms, but absolutely terrified
of them. And why? Because, just as there are ships
foredoomed to be wrecked and, in a way that mariners
sense, know it, so also are there shacks and houses
which know, in a way their occupants sense too, that
they are destined sooner or later to be squashed flat
by huge boulders perched on heights above them or
to be shattered by thunderbolts.
I was astonished in the morning to find myself
not only alive but unsinged. I was well aware, by
the way, that there were several holes in the roof, but
what I hadn’t noticed before was that there were
other holes directly opposite them in the floor, and
now, crawling underneath it, I discovered that there
were holes in the ground immediately below those
too. As it was inconceivable that the shack had been
fired upon by aviators, I could only come to the
conclusion that it was a target not only for lightning
but for meteorites as well, small though those which
had already gone through it seemingly had been.
Is it any wonder that the old place shakes and is
always creaking plaintively, racked as it is by chronic
apprehension? And will you deny me the right to
append this plea? —
Wanted: Furn. or unfurn. subterranean dwelling,
Commodious cave, ironstone excepted, only entrance
manhole, with countersunk lid, would do. Abandoned
railway tunnel, burrow of immense kind of rabbit
(extinct preferred), or submarine domicile, reached by
subway from the shore rather than in diving dress, also
considered.
Replies to— n
“Thunderstorm Target,
Altitudeville.


THE STORY SO FAR
Chris Sanderson, ‘‘ex-scrub-worker,
-contractor, -Cabinet Minister, undis-
charged bankrupt—a hell of a lot of
other things as well,” dies in Port Cowrie,
a North Queensland coastal town. Neil,
his son—they had met only once since
Neil was a youngster —buys a boat, the
Kestrel, and takes up fishing. Besanck,
whom he met in a cane-cutters’ camp,
goes in with him as partner.
Other characters are:—
Laura Clune, who runs Cayley’s, a
large new tourist hotel in Port Cowrie,
Corcoran, sub-editor of the Port
Cowrie ‘‘Times,”
Peter Jensen, an old Swedish car-
penter and boat-builder—he built the
Kestrel —and contractor who worked for
Sanderson in the early days, and
Freda, Jensens daughter.
A Serial Story of Queensland Coast
LEGEND for SANDERSON
By
VANCE PALMER
ILLUSTRATED BY
CLAIRE DALLEY.
Chapter IV.
ESj MILE or so behind the port, where the
t saltwater creeks flowed into the estuary
\ and dry gullies provided harborage for
$ empty tins and bottles, lay the scattered
jj settlement of Luggertown. It had its own
smells, its own atmosphere, its own way of
life. In the shockle of huts, the tumbledown cottages
half-hidden with greenery, lived the colored folk who
largely controlled the fishing, and their boats were
anchored in the muddy backwaters. You were in a
different world when once you passed the pyramidal
dumps behind the timbermills. An easy-going, to-
morrow-or-next-day world! Girls with berry-dark
eyes and full busts leaned over the paling fences,
exchanging gossip with friends forty yards away,
youngsters scrambled with prawning-tins among the
mangroves, young men sang as they dried their nets
along the banks. At nights there was a firefly glim-
mering of lights behind trellises, a thin fret of ukuleles
on the warm, still air.
A parasite on the port whose wealth provided it
with scanty nourishment, Luggertown had somehow
kept itself from sinking into slumdom. It had a
character, an air of independence. Its people were
islanders or the children of islanders, and they clung
to their ancient illusions of freedom, moving about
their work with an indolent pride that never quite
developed into swagger. They had no need to assert
themselves. Their boats and homes were their own:
their youngsters carried off most of the prizes at the
State school on the town boundary: their catches
brought in as much as those of the white men.
And they could afford to ignore the covert hos-
tility of the wharves and the waterfront, a hostility
that found vent in grumbles, sometimes in threats.
“Those bulls! Getting more boats on the water
every year, and using Nobel’s bait when the fish won’t
bite. Soon it won’t be possible for a white man to
knock out a living at the game. We ought to make
a ring while there’s still time and boycott any dealers
who handle their catches.”
That was the sort of talk that filtered over to
Neil as he moved about the boatsheds, picking up
hints from the older men, sounding their opinion of
his chances with the Kestrel. But the rancor behind
it meant little, only coming to the surface when drink
or bad weather made men brood on the hazards of
their calling. No friction ever disturbed the rambling
lanes of Luggertown or the wharves where white and
colored fiishermen unloaded their catches. Week
after week during the season of trade winds and good
markets the boats beat out to sea with ice and stores,
struggling home with their fish and laying-up in the
estuary till it was time for another trip. There was
little race-feeling as the crews discussed fishing-
grounds along the waterfront or danced with the
colored girls at the mixed gatherings in Luggertown.
The simplicities of the sea united men: the com-
plexities of port stimulated feelings of class rather
than of race.
To Neil, quick with pride in the refitted Kestrel,
there was a dayspring freshness about this casual,
unfamiliar life into which he had plunged. What a
delight, after the sea’s slap and tumble, to wake of
a morning in the estuary and slip out of your bunk,
sniffing in the cool smell of mud and mangroves as
you stripped for a swim, listening to the sounds that
floated over from the settlement, chatter of girls
going down for water, whistling of boys at work on
their boats! Whiffs of coffee came from the galley,
where Charlie was cooking breakfast: gold of the
arriving sun tipped the purple hills behind the town.
There was a lack of stress, of pressure from without.
You didn’t calculate by the clock but by the slow
movement of the tides. Even at sea you had a sense
of hours passing lightly. In the evenings, lying at
anchor by some reef or cay, there was time for long
talks with Leo, the two of you stretched on the still
deck with lines out for fish, your bodies pleasantly
tired, your minds active and ready to play. “Feeling
glad you let me persuade you, Leo?”
“Was it that you persuaded me? Or did you
arrange it so that I must agree to come?”
“You could have backed out any time. You can
still.”
“My dear boy, you are poking fun at me. I have
been in your power since first we .met. No matter
how I rebel—you are the one that has the will.”
But he was only shamming the reluctant captive.
Already, in his own way, he had fallen in with the
spirit of the enterprise.
'"THERE was little that was arduous about the work,
1 at any rate in good weather: a man had the
satisfaction of setting his own pace, being his own
boss. And it was easy to learn from Charlie, a quiet-
eyed young Torres Islander with enough white blood
in him to give sharpness to his wits. Since he was
a youngster Charlie had knocked about in boats and
knew every reef within a day’s journey: a sure instinct
guided him to where the cod and snapper lay, even
in that summer season when fish were hard to locate:
and he had a seamanlike way of handling the sails
or knotting a rope.
Yet he was shy and touchy. A harsh word would
make him curl in upon himself like a shelled thing,
and he looked uneasily upon Besanck, whose jokes
he could never comprehend. “What that fellow mean?
Something funny, was it? You tell me.”
It was Neil’s part to act as liaison between the
two. He understood Charlie’s deep, wordless loyalty
to the life of the sea, his impatience if things were
not done in the right way, ropes coiled properly, decks
left in good trim: he also understood Besanck’s
attitude of mocking detachment. Leo might have
accepted his role of fisherman, but he never pretended
to take it as more than a game. He dressed himself
absurdly in a yachtsman’s rigout, he played pranks
with a paintbrush in his leisure hours, splashing the
fittings with, color, ornamenting the bows with a
grotesque heraldic bird. And after his first experience
of a blow he had strong objections to going out in
rough weather. It was more comfortable to lie at
ease in a backwater, reading or writing in his diary.
“Why let yourself be driven by what others do?”
he would protest. “To be free! Is not that what
you wanted?”
Yet once out beyond the headlands he was ready
enough to lend a hand in the boat’s working, taking
his trick at the tiller, fiddling with the bolts and nuts
of the engine to find out why it missed. Now that
the trade winds had died down and an idyllic calm
rested on the cays and islands it was no hardship to
be out on the water. Days of moving about from
one reef to another, of watching the grape-dark masses
of cloud curdle up over the horizon to break in little
storms, of basking lazily under the awnings in shelter
from the sun’s midday heat. There was nothing in all
this to rasp anyone’s nerves or bring hidden conflicts
to the surface.
To Neil it was the fulfilment of all he had
vaguely dreamed. This was happiness: to have your
own boat, to have a mate. Sometimes, back among
the cane, he had been Uneasy about his attraction to
Leo, disturbed by the intensity of his own feeling.
Wasn’t it mawkish in essence, a hang-over from the
romantic attachments of his schooldays? He had
been aware of emotional flickers, impulses to show
his resentment savagely when Leo refused to come
out for a walk with him or go for a row on the
river... Bored with my company, are you? Well, I’ll
show you I’ve had enough too. . . The nights he
had lain awake, trying to think of some word that
would hurt Leo, some action that would rouse him
to startled attention.
There was no need to worry now: he had shaken
himself free from that sort of nonsense. Instead there
had sprung up a rough male comradeship that allowed
them to swear at each other lightly, grow heated with-
out rancor, show whatever was in their minds at the
moment, and finally go their own ways when the
boat put in to port and the fish were delivered to
the dealer.
NT EIL’S goal, at such times, was usually the
1 Jensens’ house on the esplanade. How refresh-
ing, after a week along the Reef, to shed his salt-
stiffened dungarees, the smell of bilge and engine oil,
and, shaven and dressed in his shore-clothes, to slip
around for a hot meal and a talk.
“Back again, Neil? What luck at the fishing?”
“Oh, middling, Mrs. Jensen. We’re managing to
keep our ends up.”
“Well, that’s more than some are doing...
Going to come to the pictures with us? Peter’s
home.”
They had accepted him as one of themselves.
Mrs. Jensen mended his socks and looked after
his washing, unobtrusively provided him with small
comforts, and let him help her in the kitchen while
Peter was busy over his books. There was nothing
maternal about her weathered face and heavy frame.
Dry and self-contained, she had never had any child-
ren, never wanted any ; but a sober liking for Neil
had been kindled at their first meeting, and she took
pleasure in showing it.
She had a way of talking to him as if his welfare
was a practical concern for them both. “You’ll want
a couple more strong working-shirts, Neil. And
there’s no need to keep your shore-clothes bundled
up in a trunk on the boat. We’ve got a room at the
back where you could leave them. It’d be just as
easy, wouldn’t it, to change here?”
He had a sense of easiness with Anna. There
was a repose, a completeness, about her quiet stolidity.
She was unexacting, made no temperamental demands
on anyone’s time or affections. You could' accept
her as a fixed feature in the landscape, like a mountain
or a mass of rock.
How different with Freda, who came down occa-
sionally from her school on the Tableland, full of
high spirits, restlessness, a driving desire to get all
the diversion possible out of the short time she had
to spare. Her arrival always brought a disturbing
element to the house, making even the two sluggish
terriers who slept in the sun of the porch give over
their drowsy contemplation.
“Freda’s home,” they seemed to be telling each
other as they shifted about uneasily in the garden.
There was a downrightness about the girl, a
capacity for making her presence felt, even when she
was upstairs in her own room. She had a lively affec-
tion for her father, and let it bubble up in every look
and gesture: she could barely tolerate her step-
mother. The constraint between the two women was
like a chill air penetrating the chinks in the walls.
They did not quarrel openly: they were even markedly
polite to each other: but Neil had come to understand
the swift, bleak looks they exchanged at meals or


while washing-up in the kitchen —looks which pro-
claimed that they could read through each other’s
pretences so easily that it was a weariness to exchange
words.
He was subtly disappointed in Freda now that
he had met her again.
“What came over me that night?” he asked him-
self. “Drunk, was I?”
There was the image he had carried about in his
mind for weeks, the image of a dazzling, mysterious
girl with dew-soft eyes, alluring smile, skin the color
of clear honey, twirling about in gauzy skirts on feet
that hardly touched the floor. Freda wasn’t in the
least like that when you saw her in the sober light of
day. She was short, solidly built, with a dull com-
plexion, challenging eyes and a mouth that twisted at
one corner. She looked at you with a quick, un-
abashed stare, as if her disenchantment was as com-
plete as your own. “Hallo? Become one of the
family already?”
Was it Anna’s interest in him that made her adopt
that casual, unfriendly air? There was something
incalculable about her, he felt, something perverse.
It was impossible to keep track of her talk, to follow
her sudden outbursts of indignation, her sudden flashes
of enthusiasm. Easy to believe Anna’s story that
before leaving the port she had created a scandal by
going about with one of the colored boys from Lugger-
town, appearing at the pictures in his company,
dancing with him in the beach pavilion. She would
take a pride in shocking people, going against the
current of the town’s opinion.
OOMEWHERE deep inside him he was mortified
that he had made so little impression upon her.
In the swift glance they had exchanged that first
evening he had imagined that a definite contact had
been established, streams of interest set flowing. Now
she seemed as unaware of him as if he were any old
friend her father had picked up in the street. Sander-
son’s son! More than once she had mocked at Peter’s
sentimentality about Sanderson. She was impatient
with the legend that had begun to grow about him,
with the articles and paragraphs that were appearing
in the northern papers: she knew all the town’s stories
about the old rip. Probably, Neil reflected, she be-
lieved that Peter was one of the men he had swindled.
“And, Lord knows, it might be true. Peter would
gloss it over. And not only for my sake —he’s made
that way.”
He was too proud to repudiate his father on the
rare occasions when the old man’s name came up in
talk at the table. Damn it all, hadn’t he shown
definitely enough that he owed nothing to anyone
and was ready to stand on his own feet! Freda
could think what she liked: he wasn’t going to reveal
all his inner workings to Freda. He resented her
indifference to his male being, her treachery to that
image of herself she had created in his mind. Going
home to his boat through the dark lanes, the broken
gullies, he laughed belligerently, remembering the light
tones of her voice, her faintly-patronising air.
“Thinks of me as a half-grown pup, does she? A
youngster the family’s adopted because they liked the
old man. Well, I’m in no hurry to put her right.”
He could forget about her in the sea’s wash and
tumble, the jollying of Leo and Charlie, the men’s
talk in the pubs along the waterfront.
But it was not easy to escape from reminders
of his father. Standing idly on the steps of the post
office one hot afternoon he was passed by a bulky,
alert-eyed man in white ducks who fixed him with a
sudden stare, went on a few steps, hesitated and came
back. “Excuse me. Sanderson’s son, aren’t you?
Christopher Neil Sanderson.”
Neil closed up like a clam. “That’s so. But you
can leave out the first name.”
The stranger eyed him hard, gave a throaty
chuckle. “Travelling light, eh? Discarding any
luggage you don’t want. Well, there’s sense in that...
Someone pointed you out to me in the street the
other day—Corcoran, of the ‘Times’—but you were
gone before the car stopped. And I’d been advertis-
ing for you in the southern papers for months...
Lamont’s my name —I’m your father’s solicitor. Don’t
expect to hear much to your advantage. I suppose
you don’t, or you’d have been on my doorstep long
ago... Come along to the office now and I’ll show
you his will.”
CROM the depths of a leather chair, in a room
1 that smelt of dust, dead blowflies, stale cigar-
smoke, Neil listened to the reading of the document
that was his father’s last will and testament. It took
him unawares, left him bewildered. Had it been in
some quilpish mood that the old man had made him
the sole beneficiary of his estate? Not for a moment
since his father’s death had he dallied with the thought
of having money left him: wouldn’t the woman who
ran Cayley’s make sure of any there might be? Yet
there was no mention of her name here. What was
the meaning of it?
“It doesn’t matter,” he told himself dourly.
“I’m not going to touch a penny of it. It can lie and
rot.”
But all such problems were swept away when
Lamont leant back and felt for the cigars in his waist-
coat pocket, a faint grin under his clipped moutache,
his chin wrinkled in three folds.
“Well, there you are! The whole circus, wild
beasts and all. You’re probably cute enough to have
guessed that there’s no chance of getting credit on
the strength of it. Assets a couple of insurance
policies and a handful of shares in dud shows.
Claims —they’re rolling in every day. I don’t think
your father knew the will was a joke when he made
it. Things looked brighter then. Better take it as
an evidence of goodwill.”
He produced a bottle of whisky, poured Neil out
a stiff nip, asked him a few polite questions about
his present position, his future movements. But he
was not greatly interested in the replies. His eyes
had taken in the grey jumper, the horny, broken-nailed
fingers on the glass. There would be no more pickings
from the house of Sanderson.
Neil put the matter from his mind, hardly
troubling to speculate on whether his father had been
moved by a generous impulse or a freak of humor.
Let it rest: all accounts were settled now. It
was only when he passed Cayley’s in his walks
about the town that the old spirit of savage resent-
ment leapt up in him. The bodyguard of waiting cars,
the tourists in plus-fours lounging around the foyer
—he couldn’t look at it without feeling the blood
behind his eyes. Damn its showy lounges and glitter-
ing necklace of lights! It had the look of a kept
woman.
Yet he usually took care to avoid that quarter of
the town. The centres of his life had come to be the
Kestrel, the boatsheds along the estuary, Jensen’s
home on the esplanade. Often when they came back
from a trip he did not leave the boat but sprawled
about the decks as they lay moored in a backwater,
watching the summer lightning play about the skyline,
listening to Leo’s queer monologues. There was con-
tinual fascination for him in the quirky movements
of Leo’s mind. It wasn’t tethered to a few fixed ideas
like his own: it danced around familiar things like
a firefly, lighting them up from new angles.
No need to be anxious any longer about his
power to hold Leo to the life they had chosen! Leo
was as absorbed in it now as himself: he had found
various ways of amusing himself and making himself
comfortable. Books could be changed whenever they
came into port: he wrote steadi y
in his diary: he had made friends
with a Greek woman ashore. Light
airs on the water, and a little money
to spend when they made a lucky
haul. Those were good days.
11.
don’t ever bring that
'' \ ) mate of yours to the
\X house, Sandy. Why not ?
([ Kicking the heels of
her patent-leather shoes
against the wooden piles of the
breakwater, the girl looked down
at the muddy stretch of flat, pitted
with myriad spears of mangrove,
that the tide had left bare. Her
face was in the shadows: Neil
could see only a gleam of white
neck and bare shoulders in the
moonlight that percolated through
the overhanging branches of the
fig-tree. He was piqued by the
insistence of her attack. Why had
she approached the question in
half-a-dozen different ways in the
last hour? Had a definite curiosity
been aroused in her when she saw
Besanck standing near the door of
the dance-hall, an aloof figure in
his white sweater and crumpled
ducks, not dancing, showing by his
smile, his whole poise, that he had
no intention of joining the fox-trotting crowd, that
he had only dropped in for a moment or two on his
way back to the boat.
“I don’t know,” he said with a touch of surliness.
“Why should I bring him?”
“Well, it would be the decent thing to do,
wouldn’t it? You’re mates. Came here together as
strangers. And he can’t have many friends of his
own.”
“As many as he wants. He likes keeping to him-
self.”
“No one would have guessed that by the look
of him. His eyes going over everyone from head to
toe.”
“It’s a fact. Ever since I’ve known him he’s
shied off making friends. It was only after a lot of
battling that I got him to come in with me on this
fishing racket.”
“You’ve definitely asked him to our place, then?”
He frowned, flicking pebbles at the stranded punt
that made a blob of inky shadow in the foreground.
“No, I can’t say I have. I hardly felt free to do that.
It’s not my house, and Besanck —they mightn’t like
him. He’s a foreigner, for one thing.”
“Dad wouldn’t have any grounds for taking
objection to that.”
“It’s your stepmother I was thinking about.”
“Anna? She’s half-German herself. Anyhow,
her likes and dislikes aren’t so very important. As
for me —there’s a lot of people I look on as foreigners,
but it’s got nothing to do with where they were born.”
“What has it to do with, then?”
“Their minds, their way of looking at life. Their
class too, perhaps.”
They were back at the matter they had been
arguing about when they left the dance-hall. A matter
of fundamental sympathies she had wanted to make
it, though he had tried to treat it coolly in an imper-
sonal way. Why bring all this underground feeling
connected with class into a question that was merely
one of manners? It had amazed him to see her
making so free with the tough, uncoated young
fellows, sugar-workers from the mill at Laverton, who
hung about the back of the hall, calling them by
their front names, responding to their free-and-easy
barrack with a barmaid glibness. A canker of irrita-
tion was still working at the back of his mind: he
was angry with her, with himself. After all these
years of knocking around, was there still a remnant
of class-prejudice lodged in his.core so that his hackles
rose when he saw a girl like Freda moving over the
floor in the embrace of a mill-hand whose undowsed
cigarette dropped ash on her shoulder?
Or was it just jealousy? He couldn’t admit (he
was watching her shadowed face) that he cared deeply
enough about her to be jealous. No, his feeling
definitely had nothing to do with that! Could he
look at her with such critical eyes if he was in love?
Yet something was at work in his blood. It
flattered him that since her holidays began she had
shown a new interest in him, as if some chance word
or look had stabbed her into recognition that he was
a man, a live being, not merely a casual crony of
her father’s. He had been conscious of her mind
warming to him, sending out friendly feelers. And
how much more sociable the town seemed now that
she had introduced him to the girls she knew—Katie
Cleves, Lucia the Italian doctor’s daughter, Mollie
Lonergan who worked at the Hunter-street post
office!
T~HE world was going very well with him, even
1 though midsummer lethargy held the port in its
grip, dullness of people fagged with sticky heat, decay
of a vegetation rotted with alternate rain and sun;


and a fear of cyclones had confined the Kestrel to
the backwaters. It was good to have a girl to knock
around with during these slack days. Someone in
whose company you were proud to be seen walking
along the waterfront, whose quick wit jazzed up your
faculties, whose casual touch gave you something of
the thrill of sex. What fun it had been in the last
few weeks sprawling with Freda on the sand at
Bustard Heads or listening to the stinging comments
she made as they lolled together in the cool darkness
of the cinema, watching the antics of cowboys, gun-
men, fat millionaires and their women! The trouble
was that he didn’t yet feel intimate with her. She
was full of strange intensities, sudden whims, notions
about social equality. And why this new curiosity
about Besanck, whom she couldn’t have seen more
than twice?
“Leo’s a queer fellow,” he said. “I’ve known
him a good while, but I’m always coming upon little
quirks in him I hadn’t noticed before. He can be
damnably savage with people if he doesn’t like them.
And mostly he doesn’t. Being sociable isn’t one of
his strong points. He’d sooner spend an evening on
his pat, mooching about the dens of Charlotte-street
or reading in the cockpit. We get along first rate
out on the water, but we mostly go our own ways in
port.”
“It’s for his sake you don’t ask him, then —not
ours.”
“I’ve hardly thought about it. Why d’you want
to know him?”
“I don’t particularly. He looks a stand-offish
sort of gentleman.”
“So he is, in a way. He doesn’t pretend to be a
good mixer.”
“Exclusive. A little like the wax models in Berry
and Mason’s, in spite of the clothes he wears. Those
china-blue eyes and that marcelled hair.”
“Well, then, you’d rather I didn’t bring him to the
place?”
“When did I suggest that?”
“You’ve shown pretty effectively that you don’t
like the look of him.”
“We were talking about bringing him to the
house. It doesn’t matter what I feel about him: I’m
not often there... I can’t help hating that supercilious
air. It’s just bombast: ‘l’m a whale to all you
mackerels here.’ Why should he think himself
superior to those boys from Laverton?”
Their faces were solemn, their bodies humped in attitudes of timeless waiting.
“You don’t know that he does. Anyhow, why
shouldn’t he? He’s probably got more brains than
the lot of them put together.”
“As measured by some intelligence test of his
own?”
“No, he’s not so cocky as you think. It’s just
that he’s more interested in things of the mind than
most of us.”
“That’s why he spends his time mooching about
the dens of Charlotte-street, I suppose.”
He turned on her with sudden heat. “Look here,
Freda: what exactly is the point we’re barneying
about?”
The way you try to live in compartments,” she
said with abrupt precision, as if she had been thinking
over the matter for days. “Always acting as if you
were afraid of giving something away. Why did you
close up the other day when I suggested having tea
on your boat? It’s been the same ever since I’ve
known you, Sandy. I introduce you to all my friends:
you take good care I shan’t know yours.”
“Meaning Besanck?”
“Is that his name? I wasn’t thinking of anyone
in particular. He was merely a case in point.”
(That’s not true, he thought: it can’t be true.
You’ve had him in your mind all evening.)
“He’s about the only friend I have except
Charlie,” he said. “You already know all there is
to be known about Charlie. He says he was in your
class when you were a pupil-teacher at Lyman-street.”
She didn’t answer him, merely withdrew into her-
self as she had a habit of doing when thwarted in
argument. He was aware of a coolness in the air,
a momentary severing of the contact between them.
The initiative always lay with her, he felt: she dic-
tated whether the mood of their talk would be jolly
and inconsequent or heavy with the weight of her
own inner monsoons. There were always two images
of her in his mind when he was away from her. One
roused the same heady excitement that had filled him
when he saw her first: the other had a crabbed, wilful
look that chilled his blood and dried up his interest
in her. ‘
HTHE damned uncertainty of women! They flowed
1 from one shape into another, even while you
were looking at them. If only Freda could be always
as simple as when they were sprawling on the sand’
at Bustard Heads, trying to pick up Tern Island
through Peter’s field-glasses. But there was this rest-
lessness in her, this hint of perversity. Why had she
made herself cheap with the Laverton mill-hands?
What was at the back of her interest in Leo?
Crackling of shelled things in the exposed sea-
mud, suck and ripple of the incoming tide, a gradual
fading of lights around the curve of the bay. He was
relieved when she felt for her beret in the sand behind
her and sprang up, lively and spontaneous once more.
“It’s growing late ; nearly morning, it must be.
You’ve got to get back to your boat.”
“That doesn’t matter,” he told her. “Time’s
nothing to us these days. We’ll have a blister on the
Kestrel soon if we don’t earn a bit of money, but
we’re not worrying. Anyway I’m not. It’s a long
holiday.”
“Not for me,” she told him. “I’ve got to work
to schedule, worse luck. School again on Monday.”
“But you’ll be down at the week-ends.”
“I won’t. I’m saving money. Putting by every
shilling.”
“Why?”
“Just instinct. You never know when you may
be glad of a full stocking. I hate the people I live
with. 1 may want to flit off over the skyline some
day.”
Again that perverse tilt of the head. Was she
trying to rouse something in him? He only knew
that it would be a duller world when she had gone
out of it.
They walked back in silence across the esplanade,
the dry fronds crackling under their feet. Lights had
gone out in all the little houses, and only an occasional
car came burring along the front. Freda stood in
the open gateway, her hip against the post, her eyes
abstracted.
“I suppose I ought to find some supper for you,”
she said. “But I never know where things are. And
Anna doesn’t like anyone playing around in her
kitchen... To-morrow’s Sunday. Are you going to
ask me down to the boat, Sandy, for a last spree?”
He hesitated, evading her eyes. “I’d like to,
but we might be going out in the morning.”
“What! ” she said in astonishment. “After you’ve
been lying up for days?”
“It depends upon Besanck,” he fumbled. “He’s
getting restless with all this loafing about. No money
coming in and the bills piling up at the store.”
“But you said just now you weren’t worrying.”
“I’m not. It’s been a good time for me. I can’t
answer for Besanck, though. I’ve got to humor him
or he might take it into his head to 'cut the painter.”
She looked incredulous. “Surely one day more
or less doesn’t matter.”
“Perhaps it doesn’t. But if they’ve got the stores
aboard and everything ready”
“They won’t have,” she said emphatically. “Why
on earth should they want to set off on a Sunday after
all these days of waiting? Anyhow, I’m going to
come.”
Flinging her arms around his neck, she drew his
head down for a quick kiss before flitting off into
the house. He stood for awhile with flushed cheeks,
his blood quickened, his mind confused, surprised by
her sudden impulse, half wondering whether she
meant him to follow in pursuit. The garden with its
heavy blobs of shadow had a secret look, as if every
leaf on the dwarfed orange-trees was waiting for
something to happen.
But not even a glimmer of light showed in the
still house. He remembered that Freda’s room was
at the back, looking over the wire fowl-run. Trudging
back through the still town he felt a sense of flatness,
of' humiliation. A man oughtn’t to let himself be
kissed like that. It meant nothing: it was an insult to
his male being.
How was it that, no matter how easy and intimate
they had been, she always managed to leave him with
this devil of inner darkness and unrest?
111.
IT was late when he reached the boat, yet Besanck
was lying awake on his mattress by the hatch, a
half-burnt cigarette in his fingers, his pyjama-coat
wide open to the night air. He had been sleeping
badly since the hot weather had come: at all hours
the light shuffle of his feet was to be heard as he
prowled about the deck with his bedding, shifting
his position like a cat in a strange room. Curiously,
his insomnia had no effect on his temper. After a
restless night he could whistle cheerfully as he brewed
early-morning coffee in the galley, and he never
grumbled at the heat.
Even the departure of the Greek woman hadn’t
affected him. She had gone off to join her husband
on a cane-farm in the Mosman valley: it was unlikely
that she would come back to the port. He missed the
oyster suppers she prepared for him when she came
back from Diego’s cafe by the post office: missed,
too, her amusing pidgin as she chattered about some
quarrel in the cafe or her sisters in Salonika, but he
had become used to the changes of life. And there
were as good fish in the sea
“Well, Neil,” he said from the shadows of the
hatch, “you have become a night-owl too?”
He sat up and lit another cigarette, anxious to
talk. Heavy with sleep, Neil stood hat in hand on
the edge of the cockpit. “Good Lord, Leo, don’t
you ever close your eyes?”
“For an hour or two before daylight, if I’m lucky.
But one can learn to doze with one’s eyes open, as so
many do in the day-time... You have at last found
a girl, eh? It will no longer be tedious to lie here in
the backwater.”
“It never has been. What’s this joke about a
girl?”
“My dear boy, it is no use to play the ostrich.
What reason have you to be ashamed? The anchorite,
o Continued on page 50.)


ship of the aristocracy has been displaced, but the
firing squad and banishment to Siberia remain.
Kira’s share in this is to send her tubercular aristo-
cratic lover to the Ukraine to recuperate on money
she gets by deceiving her proletarian lover. In the
end the aristocrat becomes the gigolo of a wealthy
old woman food'speculator. The proletarian blows
his brains out, and Kira is shot while trying to escape
to Germany.
The dramatic action through which all this is
revealed is splendidly done. Miss Rand has a strong
sense of life and character, and appears to be offering
a record of things observed at first hand. Her story
draws power of conviction from the fact that she
blames no one. Her attitude is: Here is the tale of
a couple of families, their friends, fellow-students and
workmates in a time of distressing social difficulty—
make what you can of it.
The story of Kira and her two lovers is compara-
tively unimportant in the first half of the book,
though the author makes much of it. The two men
—a shade too conveniently—remain without know-
ledge of each other’s relationship to the girl while
Miss Rand gets on with her depiction of the Lenin-
grad scene. It is possible, but she doesn’t make it
seem quite probable. That part of the story
strengthens considerably after the two men meet; and
the fault alluded to, though it weakens, does not spoil
a fine achievement.
A Robin Hood of Africa.
Douglas Newton has had plenty of experience in
the trade of writing: I, Savaran (Cassell; Angus and
Robertson ; 7s. 6d.) is his twenty-second book. He
has certainly learnt to produce them with a good
deal of assurance and verve. I, Savaran is a collec-
tion of 14 stories held together by the striking person-
ality of the leading character, a soldier of fortune who
makes Africa his happy hunting-ground.
Rather like an eagle with a sense of humor, Savaran.
A tall, dark, limby fellow with startling military gifts
and no modesty at all about his own genius. A creature
of grandiose gestures and queer dominating power, he
was a sort of Haroun al Raschid and Francois Villon
rolled into one, with a touch of Napoleon to make him
more complicated. Young though he had been then,
he had played the very deuce with the tribes of the desert
and the jungle, so that when the World War came
there were some who almost hailed it as a relief from
Savaran.
Savaran is most lavishly mounted. He is a
picaresque character, yet he always manages some-
how or other to be on the side of the angels. He
is brave and virile beyond wildest dreams, and his
wickedness is always of a humorous and sympathetic
kind.
The stories have much in common with one
another. They are built to an observable formula.
In each Savaran is in a tight place and extricates
himself —and generally a number of other people—
with the skill of a contortionist emerging from a
locked cabinet. The author is sometimes a little
vague about how the miracle is achieved, but Savaran
covers that up with a grandiose gesture and a rattle
of impressive African decor till the abashed reader
hardly likes to show himself so small-minded as to
haggle over trifles of probability.
There is always a girl of surpassing beauty and
always a different one: Athenie, all “flowers and
flame” ; Ruth Dacre, “her boldness softened by her
undoubted femininity to an alluring charm” ; Lady
Blanche Burvon, of “corn-fair beauty,” and so on.
And there is always a villain of such incredible black-
ness that Savaran looks like a lily beside him: Hanza
Ibn Kalid, the fat and perfidious Sheriff of Nenussi;
Flemalle, the slimy Levantine; Vardier, the evil
Frenchman; Sandra Boma, the black degenerate.
Other characters form a credulous chorus to the
glory of Savaran, who is allowed to redeem himself
at the end, but he is not killed off, being, no doubt,
saved for future use.
Crude and abundant romance. Something about
it suggests that the writer uses a shovel, not a pen.
A Protest Against Divorce Law.
The name part in Doreen Wallace’s Old Father
Antic (Collins ; Angus and Roberson ; 7s. 6d.) is the
English Divorce Law. As an illustrated textbook on
the difficulties of those about to divorce it is far
inferior to A. P. Herbert’s Holy Deadlock, a fact which
Miss Wallace freely acknowledges in the preface.
Holy Deadlock was evidently published while Old
Father Antic was in the making, stealing the latter’s
thunder and raising a doubt in the author’s mind as
to whether she would go on with it or not. Possibly
the doubt sapped some of its vitality.
Beyond intention, Old Father Antic has little in
common with Holy Deadlock ; it tells a different story
and tells it much more emotionally. Clement West-
ropp’s marriage goes to pieces when he can no longer
supply Cecily with the luxuries and good time to
which she is accustomed. She tries invalidism, then
separation, and meets a rich but ailing baronet who
is ready to give her all she wants. Clement, who
“might easily be mistaken for a gentleman,” gives
her the usual grounds for a divorce, but they are even
more hollow than is customary. The decree nisi is
returned, but Cecily, very indiscreetly, spends a holiday
at an obscure hotel in Scotland with her baronet. A
cousin who wants to inherit the baronetcy discovers
this and informs the King’s Proctor. By this time
Clement has met Elinor Wayne and is himself anxious
for a divorce. He sets to work to prove that his
alleged adultery was no adultery, with a view to
divorcing Cecily for her real one. He is well entangled
with the law and a far from spick-and-span lawyer
when the baronet dies and Cecily commits suicide.
But Clement is not yet out of the wood, for Elinor’s
husband is a homicidal maniac not too safely put
away. The law will not allow her to divorce him.
At last, worn out with their legal efforts and after
a display of heroics, Clement and Elinor settle down
quite comfortably in sin.
The vagaries of the law which will not coun-
tenance divorce if both parties wish it and which does
not admit insanity as a ground are not sufficient for
Miss Wallace. She thinks up further entanglements
for her victims the incontinent death of the co-
respondent-elect and Elinor’s High Church scruples,
which will not, for a long time, allow her to seek a
divorce or contemplate marriage with a man who has
been divorced. Yet at the end of the book the reader
is left with the impression that there has been a lot
of pother about nothing.
The flat and unconvincing nature of the book is
due to a number of factors. Miss Wallace spends
much of her time elucidating the obvious —exasperat-
ing to any ordinarily intelligent reader. Then the
dialogue is uniformly bad crude, violent and
• unnatural. Her people say bluntly and emphatically
what the plot demands of them and no more. Most
serious of all is the weakness of the characterisation.
Her people are diagrams illustrating a thesis, not
living individuals. Elinor is the Right Woman,
Cecily the Wrong Woman, Clement is their shuttle-
cock. The minor characters are even more blatant.
Mrs. Buttle-Spink, for instance, represents Public
Opinion, and you cannot help feeling that it is a
subtle form of cheating for the author to dispose of
public opinion so cavalierly. She is, too, evidently
anxious to pick up a little comic relief on the side.
Old Father Antic is, despite these things, very
carefully written. It is weighed and measured out
with patience and judgment. The author avoids
sentimentality like the plague and resolutely refuses to
make capital out of Cecily’s two morose and hard-
bitten little girls. Every now and then red herrings—
Maud the maidservant is one —are dragged across the
trail, apparently in the hope of giving the book some-
thing of the fullness of life; but they remain
excrescences.
Kate O'Brien's Novel of Spain.
Weighed in the scales of serious fiction Mary
Lavelle, by Kate O’Brien (Heinemann; 7s. 6d.), will
be found wanting a little, though it is a long way
above the level of light fiction.
Miss O’Brien’s weakness is a tendency to poeticise
all she touches—even pain. Her account of a tragic
love between a charming young Irish governess and
the married son of her Spanish employers is not as
deeply disturbing as is intended. She even throws a
glamor over a middle-aged Irish spinster’s sudden,
brief, illicit —and hopeless—passion for Mary. She
makes merely pathetic the death of the lover’s
father, who himself cherished a chaste and secret
tenderness for Mary, and who learns, of his idolised
son’s passion for her through finding a paper blown
from her window. However, there are those who will
thank the writer for softening the sharp edges of
distress ; her prose style is good, her eye for character
neat, and her glimpses of Spanish life apparently
authentic. The book is worth reading for the last
alone. This, Mary’s view approaching Madrid, is
good—apart from its topical interest:
Afternoon light lay over the plain. It was the third
week in September, and about some of the farmsteads
peasants were still winnowing crops of rye and wheat.
Men in suits of black cotton straightened themselves
to see the train go by, and sometimes a boy waved his
wide straw hat. The land was blond, unbrokenly; its
fairness stretched without pause -or hurry to meet a sky
so far away and luminous as to be only in the most
aerial meaning blue. There were undulations, there were
valleys; but within this spaciousness the breaks they
made were like sighs that relieve meditation; hamlets
were so buff of wall and roof as almost to be imper-
ceptible in the great wash of gold; roads made lonely
curves across the quiet, and bridges of pale stone
spanned shallow rivers.
It appears that prosperous Spaniards who wish
their children to study English under an imported
governess employ their Irish co-religionists. These
form quite a colony when they meet in their chosen
cafes on their afternoons off; impoverished ladies
mostly, with nothing to go home for, nothing to stay
for except their meals, no hope of marriage, and with
a growing sense of disappointment as the years pass.
To them comes Mary. She left Ireland because John,
her fiance, was not yet able to marry her, and because,
in view of a doubt as to her feelings toward him, she
thought a year in Spain would be a good idea. The
personal affairs of the various governesses form part
of the material of the book ; the lives of the Areavega
family, Mary’s employers, the rest.
Pilar, Neives and Milagros are interesting chil-
dren, and their relations with Mary charmingly
friendly. Their father, the gentle Don Pablo, who
made his money in the family iron works, had youth-
ful dreams of working for a mentally and politically
liberated Spain. But Consuelo, his aristocratic and
dominating wife, frustrated him through his love for
her Juanito, his adored son, has the same dreams,
and seems headed for the same defeat from similar
causes. His love for Mary is a kick against the
marital goad. Their case is hopeless; conscience
gives the “categorical denial,” but, on the hills over-
looking Toledo, they have their night of poetry,
moonlight and mutual consolation before Mary goes
sadly and chastenedly back to John and Ireland. Inci-
dentally, as the paragraph quoted suggests, the scenes
described, except for the greater permanence of the
works of man, are strikingly similar to many parts
of Australia.
Sound and Fury in Russia.
Nicholas Ostrovski’s The Making of a Hero,
translated from the Russian by Alec Brown (Martin
Seeker and Warburg ; Bs. 6d.), is a book of great
stature. It has a province for its scene, a revolution
for its action. It is a specimen of the new novel,
dealing in masses rather than in individuals, substitut-
ing propaganda for entertainment, offering a political
in place of an aesthetic image of life. It tells the
story of an individual, certainly that of Paul
Korchagin but the important part of the story is
the submergence of his individuality, for which he
fights ; his apotheosis is in the attainment of a selfless-
ness as rigorous as that demanded of the Brahmin.
The book is important as a barometer of political
consciousness.
The Making of a Hero opens in the Ukraine in
1917 when the twelve-year-old Paul is expelled from
school by an intolerant priest and goes to work under
the worst conditions in twenty-four-hour shifts at a
railway-station buffet at Shepetovka. The Germans
occupy the town, and then the Poles. Life is sub-
merged in want and misery, pogroms and oppression.
The confusion of the times is reproduced in a huge
branching story of many lives, of plots and atrocities.
Then the Red Army comes, and out of the turmoil
a plan and a meaning begin to disentangle themselves.
“The land of workers and peasants loves its Red
Army and is proud of it, and demands that there shall
not be one stain on its banner.” Paul, rescuing a
Bolshevik prisoner from a Cossack soldier, begins his
career as hero. He is forged slowly and terribly, and
always the forge is more important than the blade
that is made in it. The Party and loyalty to the
Party demand everything from Paul. He must
sacrifice all to the Party —his love for Tonia, the
forester’s daughter; his more mature passion for
Rita, the Party worker; the deep but inarticulate
affection of his brother Artem; his mother; his
friends; his wife Taya (“If a Bolshevik’s wife is a
Party comrade they rarely see each other.”); his
health and strength. These things are not the story;
they are only the by-products of it. Paul is not
presented as a tragic figure ; our sympathy is not
enlisted for him.
The supposition is that the cause is worth all
these sacrifices and that because Paul has served it
he is triumphant. It is rather an anti-climax to learn
that at the last, blind, paralysed and unable to serve
in a more practical way, Paul has achieved success as
a novelist though perhaps it lends color to the
publishers’ claim on the jacket that the book is largely
autobiographical.
As the reader progresses it becomes obvious to
him that this is no dispassionate statement, no intellec-
tual appeal, but just another raid on the emotions from
a new quarter and stripped of the well-known trap-
pings of emotional fiction. It carries out the dictum
of one of the comrades: “Our task consists in tirelessly
pushing forward our ideas and our slogans into every
person’s mind.” It is assertion, not proof, and it
betrays in its violence the seeds of its decay: “And
so he killed—in order to bring the day nearer when
people would no longer kill each other.”
The canvas is a large one, and, like most pictures,
is best seen from a little distance. The characters are
innumerable ; new ones are introduced on every page,
old ones drop out and are lost for ever. It is impos-
sible to remember half of them, but it is not necessary.
They give the impression of life, movement, change,
a great melting-pot; and that is their function. The
ruthless quality of the book is carried into the manner
of its writing. The narrative is broken into short
lengths, disconnected, with abrupt and violent effect.
The prose, in translation, is harsh and economical.
The author’s intention sticks up through it like dry
bones.
Australian One-act Plays.
Edited by William Moore and T. Inglis Moore,
a collection of Australian one-act plays is announced
by the publishers, Angus and Robertson, who hold
it to be
the most comprehensive selection of Australian drama
ever printed, the plays ranging from tragedy to comedy,
realism to fantasy, the country to the city, from recrea-
tions of the historical past to pictures of modern life,
from the pioneers to proletarian life, from Western
Australia to Norfolk Island.
Twenty authors are represented: Millicent Arm-
strong, Bernard Cronin, Dulcie Deamer, Henrietta
Drake-Brockman, Louis Esson, Miles Franklin,
Montague Grover, Edgar Holt, Peter Inglis, Stewar
Macky, Vance Palmer, Charles Porter, Katharine
Susannah Prichard, Leslie Clarke Rees, Betty Roland,
Lloyd Ross, Morris Hay Simpson, Alexander Turner,
John Wheeler and Dora Wilcox.


Give
him a
ROLLS
this
Easter
A REAL RAZOR!
One that will not be a tax on his temper and
his salary. A Rolls will earn you his lasting
appreciation. You'll both feel proud of it.
There is but one blade with a Rolls Razor. And what a blade! It is
wrought from the finest tested Sheffield steel—just as the old “cut throat” was.
Only thorough craftsmen can achieve such a masterpiece. And skilled
engineers have devised a method by which this blade is kept keen by automatic
honing and stropping in its own case.
The Rolls is the only razor to combine the shaving ease and comfort of the
old “cut throat” with the utmost in safety. A specially designed permanently
fitted guard—which no other safety razor has —protects the user in handling
as well as shaving. The Rolls Razor blade is never unprotected. The Rolls
is therefore the safest safety ever produced. The hygienic design of the guard
makes cleaning an easy matter compared with ordinary safety razors.
The stropping mechanism housed in the Rolls’ slim case enables the blade to be
stropped without skill. The correct pressure and stropping angle are auto-
matically obtained.
Honing is equally as simple.
Rolls Razors serve efficiently day in and day out for many years. They are
in compact, sturdy, and handsomely finished cases, and there is a wide range
of models.
ROLLS
RAZOR
9tONE-Blade Safety
4.U1, ALL LEADINC STORES
■ >
}/
HP!
BLADE
ė
ę
ě
e


*
ROYAL
PURPLE
PARA
MittiiliiMiiiMllllMiMlllliiWi^^
.. | M
Hi ■BHHMI
■ ■
9111
ii H
.
V
V l "'
■■l
, V*: *» *w mm. wm aw. .*
i
•p ' ■ ••■;
isll
■H
lilf
Hlg?
u
■■
wmmrnr
tif m 4Kgfg
|> 1 * §fl f f f aax#®* MwmmmSm 1 1 £1
■ MM *** mf> Srfi
I WII U X * I g|.V if | S ■»“> «.* f< y 1 «f§ if ** :
■ I
I
Hi
■
■n
: I. I
• ■/ ■
■khh
Mi
H
■lll
m
v :;,•
■
m
mm
m
■
f , ■
Hi
U
■
a
i
n
I
1 m ;
1
Hi
ran
II
■
H
ur
H
| |
1
■
an ;
liff
1111
■Hi
ill!
-;•■ f. ! ;.;, _ ". : .
, -;v -,
. t 'i'f'
—PI
■
■■■
m ■ m
m
H •
.
HfMlll
■
PIpPPIV -■
■
•i-.v : ''. :’i
: : 1 Iftp ■«■■■■■■
Interior View of One of the Many Vast Storage Cellars.


“ROTTENEST SAMSON ACT I EVER SAW!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : National Mutual Buildings, 91
King William Street, Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Saywell Buildings, 115 Lambton
Quay, Wellington.
London : T. B. Browne, Ltd., 163 Queen Victoria
Street, London, E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.')
To ANY address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji and
United Kingdom via “All Sea Route,” 2d. New
Hebrides and United Kingdom via France or
America, 3d. To all other places, 4d.
ALL POWER TO PARLIAMENT.
Called to the leadership of the American people
in a national emergency, the second Roosevelt, after
consultation with his advisers, decided that certain
measures were necessary. His party having been
placed in control of both Houses, the measures were
passed into law. The most important of them were
challenged in the U.S. Supreme Court and pronounced
unconstitutional.
Such was the fate of the National Industrial
Recovery Act (NIRA); of the Frazier-Lemke Act,
which provided for a farm-mortgage moratorium;
of the Railroad Retirement Act, which aimed at com-
pulsory retirement of and pensions for old employees on
inter-State railways ; of the Agricultural Adjustment
Act (AAA), which embodied the Administration’s
farm-relief policy ; of the Guffey Act, designed, by
proposing a scheme of reorganisation, to avert a coal-
mining strike, and of a New York State law fixing a
minimum wage for women working in laundries. The
Government got round the invalidation of AAA by a
subterfuge, its payments to farmers for crop-control
and the like being alleged to be for combating soil
erosion ; but it had to dissolve its National Recovery
Administration (NRA) and put up with the declara-
tion of the Supreme Court that none of the 49
American Legislatures could pass a valid minimum-
wage law.
The effect of these Supreme Court judgments in
the electorates was a great rally of farmers and wage-
earners to the President. Investors had their own
grievance against the Supreme Court, for it had
upheld the Administration’s most questionable
measure, the one cancelling all contracts for the
payment of debts in gold. In the result Mr. Roose-
velt and his Democratic followers were re-elected
with the greatest majorities ever given to any party
in the Republic.
Now the President has asked Congress for
authority to increase the number of Supreme Court
Judges from nine to fifteen. Six of the present
Supreme Court Judges are septuagenarians, and if
Congress agrees—there is some doubt as to the atti-
tude of the Senate —the President will have power
“to nominate an additional Judge to any Federal
court when the incumbent has reached the age of 70
or has held office for 10 years.” An interesting com-
plementary power is sought:
It is proposed that no decision on any constitutional
question shall be given by any Federal Court without
ample notice to the Attorney-General. When any
inferior Court has decided a question of constitution-
ality, there shall be an immediate appeal to the Supreme
Court.
Naturally, the Republicans have accused the
President of trying to pack the Bench. Australians
for their part —particularly those who are increasingly
vexed with doubts as to their Federal system—will
regard his position with sympathy and follow with
interest the development of his plans.
Australians know what it is to have to stand by
and leave a foreseen crisis to be dealt with by a
majority of Justices on legalistic grounds. When the
Government of the principal State defaulted in pay-
ment of interest on debts taken over by the Common-
wealth —at the instance of great majorities of electors
in all the States—and the national Parliament passed
a measure enforcing payment, two High Court Justices
declared it unenforceable, being unconstitutional. Had
another Justice joined the two, their judgment would
have prevailed because it was technically that of the
Chief Justice —and the Chief Justice was in his
eightieth year. Then there would have been an
almighty smash.
Last week’s marketing referendum, which, though
rightly rejected, may leave unfortunate sectional
animosities behind, was a consequence of the High
Court’s changing its mind. This was seldom pointed
out during the rather muddled referendum campaign,
but Professor Giblin drew attention to it in dry
sentences:
The Constitution says there shall be no interference
whatever in trade or commerce between States. That
no doubt meant what it seems to mean to plain people,
and for 20 years after Federation it was not questioned.
Then the High Court made a new and surprising decision
that it did not bind the Commonwealth. Few people
fully believed this, and after a while it became known
that most of the High Court Judges were themselves
doubtful. The rule for a Court, however, is not to go
back on a judgment, once given, but to wait for it to
be upset by a Court of Appeal. It was not until last
year that the Privy Council sat on the matter and
decided that the Constitution meant what it was origi-
nally thought to mean, and that not even the Common-
wealth could interfere with freetrade between the States.
A great many people must have voted against
the proposed “amendment” because it had the
appearance of giving more power to the High Court,
since the definition of “marketing” was left to that
body. Their response would have been different had
they been asked for more power for the one Parlia-
ment. that should matter —power over trade, com-
merce and industry, transport and education—by a
Government that could be trusted to exercise it with
full responsibility to the people instead of delegating
it to a multitude of boards. This is the one way in
which Australians may struggle out of the govern-
mental morass which threatens to engulf them, and
the cost of which is so terrific that last year they
paid £104,500,000 in taxes out of production valued
at £380,500,000. All their British traditions and in-
stincts impel them to move towards one Parliament
with supreme and unchallengeable national powers
and provincial and local authorities with prescribed
functions. But they will need nation-minded leaders,
and on the Ministerial benches at Canberra there is
only a dismal collection of State-Righters.
The Stinson Affair and After.
Some good has come out of the tragedy of the Stinson
airliner. It has stirred a sleepy and neglectful
Government to the point of making at least some
provision for rendering Australian aerial routes safer,
and it has added another page to the story of Aus-
tralian heroism.
As usual, the personalities of the adventure have
been played up by hysterical newspapers, but
they all proved themselves brave men. Proud, having
suffered a broken leg from the impact of the smash
and seen most of his companions killed, broke a
window of the crashed aeroplane and dragged a
companion, Binstead, through. While the machine was
going up in flames, Proud and Binstead crouched on
the wing to rescue the Englishman Westray. Westray,
injured, gave his life by venturing off, under condi-
tions which must have been far beyond his experi-
ence of horror, in an attempt to bring succor to men
whom he had never seen till a few hours before. With
only berries to eat, and water a difficulty, though it
rained much of the time, Binstead stood by Proud for
ten days, giving up clothing to make him comfortable.
O’Reilly, knowing the district and the inevitable
torture which he must suffer in penetrating lawyer-
vine scrub, aware also of the danger, on the wet,
humus-packed ground, of going over precipices,
scoured the bush, found the men, fed them and
brought rescuers.
In short, everyone concerned lived up to the
best traditions of Australian and British coolness,
courage and resourcefulness. The same spirit had a
few days before sent the mates of the 13 miners killed
at Wonthaggi into the poisoned and dangerous tunnels,
where any moment they might have been killed by
falling rock or entombed or blown up like those
whom they went to rescue.
The proposals of the Commonwealth Government
are necessary, but the very nature of the accident
which befel the Stinson shows that radio beacons and
wireless, though essential, are not enough. The Stin-
son was on her right route. Her height must have
been somewhere about 3000 feet above sea-level. She
was in a region where a difference of 100 yards from
left to right or vice versa might have meant safety.
Survivors reported that the pilots a few moments
before the accident seemed unconcerned. At that
moment neither beam nor wireless telephone could
have helped. The main point of the tragedy is that
it occurred in a spot in which the machine might
have lain for years without being found.
In fine weather the eastern Australian coast route
is the safest in the world. Its landmarks can be
clearly seen, and its natural emergency landing-
grounds are legion. But over most of its length there
are patches of country as wild as the Lamington
Plateau —primeval tumbles of gorge and cliff, deep
in soil, thick in timber which shuts out the sight of
the sun ; traps from which there is little chance of
escape for the unskilled bushman, or even for the
skilled bushman without the means to cut his way
through. It is possible that the lost Southern Cloud
lies on the southern alps in just such a spot as
the Stinson, the finding of which was a lucky chance
in a thousand.
The situation therefore calls for the mapping
of routes which will avoid as much as possible
the crossing of such country, and for safeguards
above and beyond radio communication between
’plane and ground. On such routes as Brisbane-
Sydney there must be checking sections (such as exist
on railway lines) to admit of machines being reported
periodically and methodically under rigid conditions.
At points such as the summit of the Macphersons
there should be rescue stations, equipped with emer-
gency rations. Fog-piercing light beacons and sirens
would eliminate a great deal of danger, and the
radio beacon system should be worked out in such
stages that signal-sending stations may be placed at
points as near as possible to those of the greatest
danger.
At the same time the irrational political prejudice
against seaplanes will have to be discarded. It will
have to be borne in mind that Imperial Airways
services are, as far as possible, to be worked with
seaplanes, that Pan-American Airways uses seaplanes
along the coast from U.S.A. to South America, and
that in 10 years’ time all the heavy airplane develop-
ment may be in seaplanes. With geodetic construc-
tion and continual extension of flying range there will
at no distant date be scarcely a long-distance flying
service which is not primarily a water service.
Machines built for the London-Australia run are so
powered as to be able to fly safely across Europe and
the Mediterranean at a height which will place them
beyond the danger of coming into contact with a
mountain range. Only the wildest European weather
would be likely to affect their progress.
Australia is painfully out of date in all its flying
arrangements. It needs a definite foundation plan
of routes, aerodromes, safeguards and machine-type
development which will do away with the haphazard
situation under which progress is made in dribs and
drabs, as accidents or glaring anachronisms force the
issue.
Lord Nuffield Was Astonished.
Before departing from Australia, to which he will
always be a welcome visitor, whether he brings
gifts or not, Lord Nuffield made some remarks which,
in view of lavish expenditure charged up to Australian
taxpayers every year, are really astonishing.
I do not think that Australia, from the point of
view of the tourist, is well enough known abroad. Take
your Jenolan Caves, as an example. They are magnifi-
cent —colossal. There is nothing to equal them any-
where else in the world. And yet if you asked the
average Englishman what and where were the Jenolan
Caves he would not be able to tell you. I should think
the same thing applies in America. I spent two days
on the Hawkesbury River. I have not heard the
Hawkesbury River mentioned abroad. In all my travels
in Australia I have not been handed one pamphlet
advertising this country.
Yet Canberra is bestowing £15,000 this year on
a show called the National Travel Association, which
publishes a monthly magazine in competition with
taxpayers and maintains a gentleman at San Fran-
cisco, where for several months he had the privilege
of feasting his eyes on a forest of idle shipping.
And just on £85,000 has been appropriated this
year for the nourishment of the N. S. Wales
Government Tourist Bureau and its pubs and
accommodation-houses, £30,500 being for salaries
and £54,400 for maintenance and working expenses.
And it is fairly certain that a lot more will
have to be found, for the Auditor-General reports
that “the Hotel Kosciusko, one of the major
enterprises controlled by the Government Tourist
Bureau, incurred a cash loss of £11,859 for the
period July 1, 1928, to June 30, 1935, exclusive
of charges for depreciation and interest on capital.”
He reports also that “in 1930-31 and 1931-32 advances
totalling £25,400” were made from the tax-fund “to
the Government Tourist Bureau, as difficulty was
being experienced by this bureau in meeting its com-
mitments,” and that “these advances remained unpaid
at June 30, 1936.”
For the twelvemonth to June 30 the Auditor-
General reckoned the net loss on the Hotel Kosciusko,
the Jenolan Caves House and other concerns run by
the Government Tourist Bureau at £15,032.
In 1934-55 net loss was £13,178; in 1933-34
£17,974. “Accountancy and internal checks” were
in 1934-35 pronounced “inadequate” ; “stock sheets”
and “stores accounting” were “unsatisfactory,” and
because “proper arrangements were not in force,
allocation of responsibility for certain shortages” was
“impossible.”
Canberra and State Treasuries report a steady
fall in revenue, and are inventing all sorts of explana-
tions to account for it. The fundamental reason is
that the people can’t go on finding £104,500,000 in
tax-revenue for seven Governments and Parliaments
and an ever-increasing swarm of departments, boards
and commissions, and the burden will have to be
lightened or something will break. A good way to
begin would be to cut out all this silly expenditure on
tourist joints, the poor results of which prompted
Lord Nuffield to make the statements quoted, and to
lease the Jenolan Caves House, the Hotel Kosciusko
and Chalet and all the rest to the highest bidders.
It will also, of course, be necessary to cut out the
wholly unnecessary globetrotting in which a multitude
of deadheads indulge, and which during the last two
years has been carried to lengths utterly indecent and
disgraceful.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Section 92 Stands.
The people of Australia have returned the proper
answer to the politicians who urged them to give up
the rights guaranteed in Section 92 of the Common-
wealth Constitution, absolute freedom of trade, com-
merce and intercourse among the States, in order —
as one gentleman coolly put it—that “artificial price-
levels ’ might be inflicted on them by boards.
This outrageous proposition was rejected by the
electors in every State—in N. S. Wales by 733,335 to
337,954, in Victoria by 472,426 to 400,622, in Queens-
land by 214,811 to 109,887, in South Australia by
210,241 to 53,599, in Westralia by 110,050 to 36,056,
and m Tasmania by 76,619 to 21,510: 1,817,482
against 959,628. These were Monday’s totals. Votes
to be counted may take the adverse majority to
900,000, perhaps more.
Because it was bracketed with the marketing
question, and because many electors, particularly in
the small States—angry and alarmed at the threat
to inter-State Freetrade were bent on giving the
Lyons Government a bump, the aviation question
was also defeated. But it was carried in Victoria
and Queensland and in the Commonwealth itself —
on Monday the voting was 1,570,790 for and
1,360,643 against—and there is nothing to prevent
Victoria and Queensland transferring their aviation
powers to the Commonwealth by virtue of subsection
37 of Section 51:
Matters referred to the Parliament of the Com-
monwealth by the Parliament or Parliaments of any
State or States, but so that the law shall extend only
to States by whose Parliaments the matter is referred,
or which afterwards adopt the law.
Premier Butler has already intimated that South
Australia will accept a satisfactory uniform aviation
law, and presumably the chastened Mr. Stevens will
likewise be found willing.
__ An analysis of the vote on the second question
is interesting. Sydney, which possesses a “marketing
scheme” administered by a milk board, was most
emphatic in its determination that it would have no
more of these alleged boons: the adverse majorities
in 14 metropolitan electorates range from 10,000 to
G,OOO. Queensland has 10 electorates, 17 marketing
boards and 78 politicians, all of whom urged electors
to vote Yes. Only in Wide Bay is there a small
Tes majority, and that may be wiped out.
Nine of the 11 Ministers in the House of Repre-
sentatives —seven U.A.P. and two C.P.—saw their
constituents reject their counsels. To the unconcealed
chagrin of Minister Thorby, Calare, his N.S.W.
country electorate, turned his advice down by nearly
two to one. Kooyong (Vic.), the Attorney-General’s
electorate, was 27,916 for and 37,077 against (Mr.
Menzies “can only conclude that the Constitution is
unamendable,” though it was amended in 1928), and
Henty (Vic.), whose member is Mr. Gullett, the
Minister for Trade Wars, was 30,728 for and 42,558
against. Wilmot, .Mr. Lyons’s division, was 4044
for and 14,678 against. Wilmot was the scene of a
regrettable reverse for Mr. Lyons’s party at the State
election on February 27. Mr. Lyons is now gloomily
convinced that “there is an anti-Federal spirit abroad.”
Test Twaddlers.
Those who haven’t had a surfeit of cricket in the
last month or two are immune; they are addicts,
and, short of treatment as for any other dope-takers,
there is nothing to be done about them.
Apart from such unfortunates, most people have
been fed up to the neck. The way Tests are now
trumpeted in the dailies and over the air it’s impossible
for a normal person not to get fed up. From both
these insistent sources over the past four months has
been let loose such a twaddling splurge of sticky
hero-faking and false heroics as was never before
seen, read or listened to. The superlative has flour-
ished like a fungus. The gods have been invoked by
name, the Round Table has been raided, dictionary
and encyclopaedia have been rifled, school Shakspeare
has been remembered, every ’ology except toxicology
has been robbed of its jargon—there has not been
such a parade of erudition since the outbreak of
the Browning Society.
The spread hasn’t been all sugar. To our pur-
veyors of veracious news these Tests have been
lamentably lacking in Sensations. There hasn’t been
a single authentic Sensation capable of lifting circu-
lation a dozen copies. But there is a hallowed rule
in such circumstances. If there are no Sensations
these necessary phenomena must be faked. The only
sort of Sensation appropriate to the business at hand
is a row. Hence the repeated efforts to get a row
going or imply that one was on.
Hand it to the boys, they tried hard. Their
minds running on Spanish events, they had Australian
players in rebellion against their skipper. This turn-
ing out to be a mare’s-nest, and extra copies of the
papers having been rushed by nobody except the
butcher, a row was conjured up between players and
controlling board. Another washout. Then a not-
very-fast fast bowler having been added to a team,
the very worst was suggested—a most sinister move.
Nobody rushing in to swallow this concoction, the
boys were stumped—but not out. The “rival cap-
tains” ate a lunch together— most significant. They
“reached a gentleman’s agreement.” No mandarin
was ever a patch on the boys at saving face.
It has been a diverting exhibition of tripe, tosh
and twaddle. But muck and glucose alike do stick,
and this particular series of Test matches really does
deserve to be better remembered. Actually, there have
been two entirely different series—that played on the
field and that labored at in the papers. This last
has been the most ludicrous performance to date.
As for the games on the field, no cricket Test series
has been more pleasant and friendly. The matches
have been played very much as ordinary cricket
matches, the one side simply trying its darnedest to
beat the other by playing it cricket. There has not
been the slightest sign of anything like an unsporting
action on the field, and no player, nor anyone offi-
cially associated with the game, has done or said
anything contrary to the spirit of cricket tradition.
And there are worse traditions.
"Validating" Goes On.
More “validating” will have to be done in the N. S.
Wales Parliament presently.
Under a Flour Acquisition Act passed in 1931
with the concurrence of all parties, millers were debited
with £lO a ton for flour for which £8 10s. was “a
fair and reasonable price,” being deemed to have
repurchased the flour from the State when they sold
it. The difference, less cost of administration, was
given to necessitous wheatgrowers. The measure
operated for two years; then the Commonwealth
Parliament made other arrangements.
In all, £1,175,000 was extracted from N. S. Wales
millers while the Macquarie-street scheme was in opera-
tion, but one concern resisted a claim for £BOOO-odd,
contending that the Act imposed an excise duty which
was beyond the N. S. Wales Parliament’s legislative
powers. The Full High Court has unanimously ruled
that it was right. In the words of the Chief Justice,
“the Act was passed to evade a constitutional pro-
hibition. A tax paid in respect of flour produced or
manufactured in N. S. Wales is plainly an excise duty
within the narrowest definition of the term ; a tax
payable on the sale of goods is an internal revenue
duty amounting to an excise duty, which cannot
validly be imposed by a State Parliament.”
So the £1,175,000 was collected illegally. How-
ever, the Government has already made it clear that
if return of the money or any portion of it is
demanded the illegal collections will be “validated.”
if “validated” they can be. In the alternative it may
be necessary to “validate” the amended income-tax
assessments.
On the very same day the Full High Court
decided that N. S. Wales income tax may be legally
imposed on a Broken Hill company’s income from
an investment in debentures issued by a company
whose office and register of debentures are in Mel-
bourne, though it has given a mortgage over some
property in N. S. Wales.
The same income is taxable by the Common-
wealth and by Victoria. In a rightly-ordered country
it would be as unconstitutional for provinces to impose
income taxes as it is for them to impose excise duties.
Road Transport and Defence.
“M. Turlutu”: The Director of the London School
of Economics and Political Science, writing in the
“Times,” has warned Britain of the war perils attach-
ing to interference with long-distance road transport,
on the plea that it competes undesirably with rail-
ways. He urges that the whole matter be investigated
from the standpoint of home defence, on the ground
that road transport can replace railways for all defence
purposes, whereas railways cannot replace road
transport, and are much more easily put out of action.
One of the dangers of the anti-road antics of
Australian Transport Strangulation Boards is that
they may succeed in throttling road transport until
it will be of no value in a military sense. Common-
wealth control of all transport is a natural corollary
of “absolute freedom” of “trade, commerce and
intercourse.” World conditions have made it thrice
necessary to national defence.
More Darwin Comedy.
The farce of Northern Territory rule grows more
farcical with every act that is played. For nine
months the Lyons Government has been screwing
up its courage to appoint as Administrator a political
supporter with an unsafe seat; but every time it
makes a move public opinion sends it scurrying for
cover.
It is now said that the appointment will be made
this month. Meanwhile, the Government’s difficulties
have been added to by the action of the N.T. Pastoral
Lessees’ Association. Hitherto, the Canberra atti-
tude to pastoral opposition has been that it repre-
sents the opinion not of the whole of N.T. graziers,
but only a section hostile to Mr. Abbott. At the
annual meeting of the Lessees’ Association all sections
of the N.T. graziers were represented.
They passed a resolution expressing satisfaction
at the appointment of Messrs. Payne and Fletcher
as commissioners to inquire into Territory affairs, and
added a strong plea that “no appointment of Admin-
istrator should be made until the commission’s report
is received.” They declared that “the present method
of administering the N.T. was largely responsible for
lack of progress,” and they want the commission
entirely untrammelled in devising a new scheme of
administration.
While the Government is making up its “mind”
the N.T. is being governed by a Deputy-Administrator
whose normal salary is £565 p.a. During the absence
of the Court Registrar, a 22-year-old typist presided
as deputy-registrar in bankruptcy to examine a bank-
rupt ; the Acting-Administrator, her official chief,
appeared before her in an inferior position as official
receiver.
Casey's Golden Age.
Mr. Casey, pausing at Perth on his way to the Coro-
nation, delivered a homily on the financial road
Australia should take.
The Commonwealth, Mr. Casey said, was trying
to maintain the 1928-29 rate of development without
getting any money from London. It had caught up
with its savings, and if it were to keep up the 1928-29
development rate it would have to get more
money in:
The great drain on the Australian pool of money
which private enterprise is making is the cause of
decreasing response by the public to Government loans.
It is, of course, thoroughly selfish of private
enterprise to drain the bowl when Governments are
so hard up for money for Olympic swimming pools,
recreation grounds and departmental offices, especi-
ally as the Governments showed outstanding modera-
tion whenever they have sucked on the drain. They
added only £155,000,000 to the national debt between
June 30, 1930, and June 30, 1936, apart from what
they took in taxes —£104,500,000 last year.
The “1928-29 development rate,” which is the
wandering Treasurer’s ideal, had results so great that
value of production fell £5,000,000 in 1928-29 com-
pared with 1927-28, another £59,000,000 in 1929-
30 and another £80,000,000 in 1930-31. In the result
our Governments had to spend £236,000,000 in 1930-
31 to carry on, including a borrowed £55,500,000.
Production that year was valued at £319,000,000, or
only £83,000,000 more than was spent by Govern-
ments.
Sympathetic souls may feel sorry for Mr. Casey,
but most Australians also have their fiscal longings
for a return to a golden age—the golden age of
1912-13. In that year the States raised only £7,000,000
in taxation instead of over £40,000,000, and the
national debt of Australia was £313,000,000, or exactly
a fourth of what it is to-day, as Commonwealth
Government expenditure then was a fourth of this
year’s estimated figure.
How to Help Rivals.
While Senator McLachlan and Mr. Jos. Francis
M.H.R., were telling Australian fishermen to go away
and stop bothering them for petrol rebates and admis-
sion of Australian tinned fish to Australian Army
and Navy rations, Canada was helping her sea-
harvesters to produce more fish for export—to Aus-
tralia, among other places.
Canada is one of our brethren in the Empire
family; but Canada is also a “bad-customer country”
—the adverse balance for 1936 was £4,254,086 ster-
ling ; well over £5,000,000 Australian. Australia
imports more canned fish from Canada than would
pay for the development of an Australian fishing
industry of at least equal export capacity to that of
Canada.
Canada operates on different lines. The National
Minister for Fisheries (we haven’t such an article
about the place) made available last year a grant of
£60,000 sterling—say, £75,000 Australian —for loans
to needy fishermen, conditionally upon each maritime
province putting up an amount equal to its share in
the grant. Nova Scotia and New Brunswick each
took £20,000, and Prifice Edward Island £5OOO, thus
making available £90,000 —£112,000 Australian —for
administration by special fisheries boards appointed
for each province. Loans are made, on lowest terms
of interest and repayment, for repairs, overhaul,
replacement, outfitting and operating boats and gear.
Provision is also made for emergency help in case of
loss or damage from storms. The repayment from
working profits makes the fund a permanent affair,
constantly available for starting new men in the
industry and for helping established ones out of
unavoidable difficulties.
It is by just this sort of commonsense in develop-
ing natural resources that Canada is able to become
an exporting country, partly, and substantially, at
Australia’s expense. At the same time Canada is
producing and training the finest of all material for
naval and mercantile personnel, the deepsea fisherman.
Judges' Associates.
“Lex”: The appointment of Miss Mary Webb as
associate to her father, Webb, J., of Queensland’s
Supreme Court, and President of the Arbitration
Court, calls for some notice.
Miss Webb, I read, is 18 years of age, and was
recently a schoolgirl. Two other Justices have young
sons as associates, and another’s associate is a young
nephew. These four young people are drawing
salaries which amount to about twice as much as the
basic wage.
An appointment to the position of Judge’s asso-
ciate is made by the Governor-in-Council on the
nomination of the Judge. Whilst it may be desirable
that a Judge should have the nomination, it is perhaps
equally desirable that the salary should vary accord-
ing to the age and qualifications of the person
appointed. There is a strong feeling among Queens-
land lawyers that these positions should be reserved
exclusively for men.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Runa”: The makings of a first-class
plot for a thriller came to light recently
in Westland (M.L.). A girl found a box
of chocolates in a department store and
handed them to an invalid friend, who,
biting into them, found that they had
metal centres, and handed them to the
police. Then was examined perhaps the
most expensive box of sweets on record.
All the centres were retorted gold. Next
happenings were the appearance in court
of a young man charged with the theft
of his employers’ gold and his admission
that he had parked the metal in the
chocolates for safe transit. He gave the
box to his wife to post; like a lady, she
lost it.
* * * *
“Barang”: The P.M.G.’s Department
is almost always blamed for lost letters
(B. 24/2/’37), but many of the missives
that go astray have never even been
handled by postal officials. In a bowser
casing recently removed from a service
station in North Sydney workmen found
15 letters that had been “posted” in, the
petrol machine by careless or absent-
minded persons. And only a few months
ago I undeceived an irate old gentleman
who was loudly cursing the department
for not providing bigger posting slits in
their pillar-boxes. He was trying to
post a letter in a transformer box.
* * * *
“Farleigh”: The resentment alleged to
be felt in Italy over the British Govern-
ment sending a Coronation invite, to
Haile Silassie—now leading a placid
existence at Bath—recalls a telegram
that was reckoned considerably over the
odds in Britain in the early stages of the,
Great War. It was a message convey-
ing birthday greetings from U.S. Presi-
dent Wilson to the Kaiser. And in both
instances much the same excuse has been
given about the communication being a
mere matter of courtesy. America
wasn’t at war with Germany in 1914,
and apparently it was the custom of the
White House, to send wishes for “many
happy returns” to the ruler, hereditary
or otherwise, of any Great Power with
which it maintained diplomatic relations.
Similarly, in 1937, Britain hasn’t yet
recognised Abyssinia as a section of the
Italian Empire and Haile as a de-
throned and exiled monarch. Until this
is done Haile is regarded as entitled to
the ordinary civilities that govern the
social intercourse, of nations.
* * * *
“Ibn el Issar”: His silver jubilee is
costing the Aga Khan a bit of brass.
Visiting his constituents in East Africa
the custom of weighing him in gold was
carried out at Nairobi before 15,000 of
his followers, yielding £23,000 to local
lt Moslem charities. He had already
weighed out in India, and will do so
later in Malaya, another stronghold of
his sect. Outside his racing activities
few know anything about the Aga.
Racially he is a Persian Arab, in direct
descent from Ali, nephew of The Pro-
phet. His vast wealth is derived from
the annual tithe of 10 p.c. on the earn-
ings of his 80,000,000 followers in India
and elsewhere, the bulk of them money-
spinners, their activities ranging from
international banking to keeping little
stores all over East and South Africa
and Malaysia. His influence during the
trouble with Fritz kept Indian and Afri-
can Moslems on the side of the Allies,
though the Caliph had declared a Holy
War. For this service he was made a
prince of the Indian Empire and given
a salute of 11 guns—he is the only
ecclesiastic in the world entitled to such
an honor.
* * * *
“Kaylee”: A couple of youthful car-
thieves put in some fast work at Adel-
aide the other night. They began by
appropriating a Vauxhall car at Glenelg,
and, with a couple, of girl friends, drove
joyously from seaside to city and back.
Warming to their work they next broke
“Well start off with something simple like this, gentlemen .”
into a ivale and took wo
Wolseley cars> discarding the Vauxhall.
Presently one of these was abandoned
in favor o( a Standard Swallow, a
doctor's garage being rifled for the prize.
North Adelaide a Rolls-Royce proved
message convey- a £urther temptat i onj and this and the
remaining Wolseley went roaring through
Adelaide at 80 m.p.h., only to crash to-
gether in front of the Detective Office,
where the damaged Wolseley was dumped
and | ao tf, youths went on in the Rolls,
Wiih the police molor squad in hot
p ursu it the joyriders tore through the
eastern and southern suburbs to
Mitcham, where the car was abandoned
halfway up a tree and in flames. Within
six hou ,. s they had stolen cars valued at
, nver fsnfiO
ttr . * „ .*,. * . * # .
DBK - : A plane at the Kmgsford
Smith aerodrome, Sydney, lost a wheel
in flight and crashed on landing. This
must have happened hundreds of times
in aviation; in a biplane or low-wing
monoplane the undercart cannot be seen
and the pilot may be entirely unaware of
his loss. An old R.N.A.S. method of
notification was to send a ’plane up with
one. of its occupants standing holding a
wheel up, while the ’plane circled the
other ’plane. Usually the loser of the
wheel woke up quickiy and made a
careful banked landing, but a machine
seldom got down without some damage.
Conversely, there was sometimes a case
when pilot and observer couldn’t lose
something they didn’t want. After a
bombing raid over a Red stronghold in
the Caucasus, 1919, one of our DH9’s
returned with a 651 b. pill hanging pre-
cariously from a bomb rack, and there
was a hurried exodus from the imme-
diate landing vicinity. After circling
for some time over safe territory, and
wiggling wings in an endeavor to get
rid of that unwelcome passenger, the
pilot made a nice three-point landing,
while we all held our breath. The two
in the ’plane were lucky, as the bomb
release had jambed hard. I lost a rela-
tive in France through similar trouble.
As the wheels touched, a stuck bomb
broke away, and little was found of
machine or occupants.
* * * *
“Captain Pintle”: Watching our
plumpest “cadet” finishing his dessert, my
mind went back to square-rigger days
when his kind were known as appren-
tices, the “pound-and-pint” scale ruled,
and the denizens of the half-deck were
for ever hungry. And what sort of food
they had to face! Few to-day know the
correct recipe for dandyfunk, the com-
pounding of dog’s-body is a lost art, and
to feed even an ordinary seaman on
cracker-hash would create a maritime
strike. When was the last “rooty” hurled
overside as uneatable even by a hungry
first-voyager? But I did quite recently
overhear the lamptrimmer advising the
last-joined deckboy, all limp and seasick,
to “Stick yer ’ead over the rail an’ get a
good mouthful o’ wind-puddin’, me lad.
Nothin’ like it for curin’ bag-musterin’.”
* * * *
“Miro”: An unusual charge came up
in a M.L. country court the other day
when a woman farmer was arraigned for
the offence of “besetting.” A farm
laborer who had worked for her and had
left her employ continued to occupy,
with his wife and 10 children, a cottage
on the lady’s property, being unable to
find another domicile at short notice.
His complaint was that his ex-employer
used to come round and annoy the house-
hold in the hope of hastening their de-
parture. A police warning to the be-
setter was of no avail; the Bench, while
imposing no penalty, ordered her to pay
costs, and added a threat of a substantial
penalty if she continued to beset.
* * * *
“Hoylester”: Card games seem to be
incurably addicted to aliases. In recent
years I’ve been introduced to quite a
lot of allegedly new games, but in only
one or two instances have I failed to
find them under some other name in
either the American or the English
Hoyle. Pontoon used to be vingt-et-un ;
rummy used to be coon can, and earlier
still was colonel. Newmarket is a sim-
plified version of another; auction
(not to be confused with auction bridge)
was played by this generation’s grand-
parents as speculation ; chase-the-ace is
a game the Cornish folk enjoyed 200
years ago. They called it ranter-go-
round. Russian banker used to be monte
bank. Whisky poker was known to the
bucks of the Regency, who called their
game commerce. A link in the chain
between commerce and straight poker is
a long-obsolete game called brag. Solo
whist used to be boston, and rickety
Kate is the ancient pastime of hearts,
crossed with one feature of slober-
hannes. But the champion hybrid is five
hundred, which has borrowed from
euchre, 100, nap and auction bridge.
* * * *
“J.M.H.’’: The recent shipping strike
in the U.S.A. left hundreds of homing
Australians tied up at Pacific ports, not
a few of them with scanty financial re-
serves or none at all. Then somebody
hit on the idea of forming the “Stranded
in America Club” at Los Angeles to
while away the time of waiting and give
a helping hand to the needy. The club
organised luncheons at film studios,
picnics in the desert, visits to ranches
and other diversions. At Christmas an
attempt was made to broadcast to Aus-
tralia, but atmospheric conditions spoiled
it. The wealthier members of the club
stood the racket, and ungrudgingly, too.
* * * *
“M. Turlutu”: What’s the best one-
hand portable library for all ordinary re-
quirements? The first I saw, over 40
years ago, consisted of Eugene Sue's
Wandering Jew and the, Bible. The
owner was a Torres Strait pearling
skipper. A missionary in the Solomons
a few years later had picked Gibbon's
Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire
and George Eliot’s Mill on the Floss. He
averred that either contained better Eng-
lish than any in the Good Book. A
lighthouse keeper at Booby Island
(Torres Strait), never outside Australia,
had taken The Travels of Messer Marco
Polo to his heart, and knew it back-
wards. His next favorite reading was
Ouida’s In Maremma. Another isolated
lightkeeper centred on the Pocket Oxford
dictionary and the Bible, stating in almost
the very words of Frank Bullen (of
whom he had never heard) that one con-
tained all the words and the other the
best ways of putting them together to
make perfect English.
***. * , ,
“D A.”: The incident mentione
“White Rose” (B. 24/2/ 37) wasn t
only stunt that brought the ung
Jacobites notoriety in pre-war days, in
1901, when a statue of Cromwel
be. unveiled at St. Ives, Hunts, a r P
was circulated that the Jac T ° T blte
intended to dynamite it. However, th
Jacobites contented themselves with sen
ing to the principal participants m the
ceremony nooses and halters, with what
they regarded as suitable inscriptions,
One noose was labelled: “To hang Arcn-
deacon , who would revive the im-
moral policy of Cromwell, traitor, mur-
derer and regicide.”
HERO WORSHIP.
“At the conclusion of the final Test match several
women made desperate attempts to kiss Badcock and
Gregory, while a crowd of enthusiasts rushed the
ground and cut lumps out of the pitch for
souvenirs.”
In Albion’s isle they take their pleasures sadly—
At least, I think some Frenchman put it so—
Not here. When we’ve annihilated badly
The proud prestige of some invading foe
We celebrate our triumph gladly, madly,
And let ourselves incontinently go
With an abandonment that might surprise
Our staider kinsfolk under sterner skies.
There, when a county pro. has won to favor,
The mercenary hat goes promptly round;
In India dashing century-makers savor
The taste of fame with glowing garlands
crowned;
But here’s a knightlier guerdon and a braver
When chaps are rushed, before they’re off the
ground,
By many and many an adoring Miss
With lips intensely eager for a kiss.
And then the trophies! Some Melburnian,
mammoned
Or not, may yet unto his heirs donate
A hunk of turf wherefrom the ball that gam-
moned
Barnett to his undoing rose too late,
A hoof-marked hole that cooked the goose of
Hammond
And left his stricken side disconsolate.
Along with ravished bails and balls and stumps,
Who doubts such shrivelled heirlooms will be
trumps?
Glumly, mayhap, our forebears took their
pleasure
’Neath the grey clouds above Britannia’s sod.
We greet it blithely, cut to diff’rent measure.
The very ground on which our champs, have
trod
Becomes to us a glowing, glorious treasure . . .
And, to be frank, I might have grabbed a clod
Myself had I been early on the spot,
Only, unfortunately, I was not.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


‘‘Trio”: Edward VIII. was the first
British ruler —for centuries past at all
events —whose profile did not appear on
our coins. Yet before he came to the
throne his features occupied a subordi-
nate place on the ten-bob note. Prob-
ably this is the only instance of an heir
apparent’s head being used on the cur-
rency before he became King.
* * * *
“Kahu”: Opened a bag of kauri gum
in a M.L. store one day and was about
to shoot it on the floor when I spotted a
wad of notes (£42) which a careless
digger had enclosed. The boss managed
to trace the. owner, who was under the
impression that he had been robbed.
Knives and watches were a common
find ; quainter discoveries were a legal
document and a dental plate. Anything
in a breast pocket may easily slip into a
sack when a man is sewing. The bloke
with the false teeth must have sneezed.
* * * *
“Fiona”: The request of the Vic.
Titles Office for a deed to be re-typed in
black ink may seem unnecessary (B.
3/3/’37), but it has some justification.
Many purple inks, especially when ex-
posed to light, lose their color quickly ;
black ink has far more lasting proper-
ties. Some years ago a city office had
long notices done by their typists, all of
whom used purple ink except a girl
working a hired machine. After ex-
posure to a week’s sunlight the purple
notices were unreadable ; the black was
unaffected by strong light. Shortly after-
wards the firm’s New York office wrote
requesting that all documents should be
typed in black ink, as purple seemed to
fade in transit.
Somebody's pinched all my clothes , Basil. What about lending me
YOUR slacks ?”
“Cream of Tartar”: The assertion at
a judicial inquiry into the “chain-store”
business that butterscotch can be made
in Sydney with very little butter, or even
none at all, leaves me cold, although it
would doubtless be hotly resented in
the original home of the industry.
What’s in a label, anyhow, and how
many take it at face value? Years ago
in Westralia a zealous Health Depart-
ment announced that vendors of ice-
cream without any cream in it- —and
few of them even pretended that it was
an ingredient in their wares —would
have to sell the stuff as “ices” merely,
or be prosecuted for fraudulent misrepre-
sentation. At this stage some aggrieved
person suggested that, to be consistent,
the board should proceed against all
shopkeepers who sold chocolate-cream
under an equally misleading label. There
was no more talk of prosecutions.
* * * *
“Brix”: An even briefer reference
than “Eureka’s” (B. 3/3/’37). A Goul-
burn (N.S.W.) resident went to the door
one morning and a young man tendered
a battered card inscribed: “John Smith,
Gardener. O.K. Signed, T. Blank.”
She gave him a day’s work and proved
the testimonial O.K.
**■•*..*
Con Drew: Tell “Bundy” (B.
3/ 3 / ’37) that a right cross is delivered
when a boxer (A) crosses his opponent’s
left lead with his right and slams him
on the chin or elsewhere upstairs. If B
feints with his left at A’s bingey and A
lowers his guard to protect it, B, if he is
quick enough, can hook him on the chin
with his right. In that case he doesn’t
cross anything.
* * $ *
“8.0’C.”: The “currant wine” that
an enterprising Italian supplied with
literally staggering results to his neigh-
bors was not, one may be very certain,
identical with the mild beverage brewed
in English homes from time immemorial
under the same name (B. 17/2/’37). The
British beverage is a fermented infusion
of hot water with the red, black and
white berries ( ribes ) of Northern Europe,
which borrowed the name of currants
from some resemblance to the Levantine
grape currant (originally raisin de
Corinth ) commercially known as Zante
currant. The mildness of the English
“wine” is due to the low content of
sugar in the fruit; what alcohol it con-
tains is mostly added spirit to give the
product a little “body.” The brew made
in N.S.W. was, it is safe to bet, made
from the dried Zante currant —it is too
early in the season to make it from the
fresh fruit. Our distilleries occasionally
turn the fruit, fresh or dried, into brandy
when, through wet weather or adverse
conditions, it is otherwise unsaleable.
Any southern Latin can make wine from
it in his own backyard, and of any de-
sired potency. Italian and Greek
colonies in big U.S.A. cities defied the
prohibition law by making their own
supply.
“Sailor Once”: Touching the chang-
ing tastes in tobacco (B. 3/3/’37), in my
seafaring days the R.N. received its issue
in the leaf. Moistened with rum, it was
wormed, parcelled and made up into
the familiar sticks common early in the
century. “Ship’s” was hard to beat.
Popular for’ard, it was sudden death to
the more refined stomachs of the quarter-
deck, and I’ve seen many a junior sick
“Quit making so much smoke! D'yer Want t ’ give th' game away ?”
as a dog after his first attempt to prove
himself a man. Few of them persevered
with the experiment; “ship’s,” like
“trade” in the Islands, was the last
resort.
* * -t #
“Centurion”: “Light Horse” made a
curious slip writing of Allenby’s roar-
up of the Anzac M.D. at Surafend (B.
3 / 3 / ’37) when he referred to the A.M.D.
as driving the Turk “out of Palestine
practically singlehanded.” He meant
Sinai, of course. I hop in early before
the other Australian mounted troops, not
to mention West Indian, French, British
and Indian infantry and British and
Indian cavalry who had a share in that
show, declare war on “Light Horse.”
* * * *
“C.S.”: That yarn of “Spare Corp.’s”
(B. 24/2/’37) about the Germans giving
British troops “a hot time with British
shells fired from British guns captured
from the Russians” sounds like a furphy
to me. The Russians were shockingly ill-
furnished with munitions, and, owing to
the ineptitude and venality of the Russian
War Department, much of the stuff sup-
plied by Britain was left to rust on the
beach of Archangel. When the Russian
“steamroller” started to roll backwards,
Jerry must have gathered in a few odd
shells, but I doubt if he got enough to
make, it worth his while dragging heavy
cannon across Europe to the Western
Front. Major Washburn, the London
“Times” correspondent on the Eastern
Front when the rout started, reported
that the Russians had only a few shells
per gun. After firing them, they took
their artillery off in the general direction
of Moscow. If “Spare Corp.” was bom-
barded with British shells they were most
probably captured on the Western Front.
After all, we weren’t winning all the
time.
* * *
“Curate’s Egg”: If “Tile” (B.
24/2/’37) were to revisit Brisbane he
would find the juvenile prejudice against
topis a thing of the past. Schoolgirls
as well as schoolboys are taking to them,
though the headgear is mostly a cheap
imitation of the genuine article. In the
north of Australia and the islands, how-
ever, the topi does not enjoy the popu-
larity pictured by the novelists. Leaf
hats are far more popular. Topis arc
reserved for visits to town and cere-
monial occasions.
* * * *
“Y.”: The caul (B. 24/2/’37) was
assumed from primitive times until com-
paratively modern ones to be a sign of the
favor of higher powers and of protec-
tion from harmful spirits, making the
infant born with it lucky. It was a share
of the luck that was transferred by
purchase, and gradually a belief grew
up that the buyer could not be drowned
if he. were a seafarer, and would have
remarkable eloquence if he were an ad-
vocate. As early as the fourth century
Chrysostom was denouncing the belief
of many members of the primitive
Church that fortune could be bought by
the purchase of a caul; but evidence
that the belief persisted into the. nine-
teenth century may be found in Dickens's
David Copperfield and in one of the
ballads of Hood’s Whims and Oddities.
At times in the seventeenth century ad-
vocates, eager to win cases, paid profit-
eering midwives as much as 30 guineas
for a caul; but those were boom prices.
In old times, though the caul could be
sold, it was thought that the child would
die if the head-covering were lost or
thrown away.
* * * *
“W.J.W.”: Scorfield’s cricket drawing
(B. 10/2/’37) reminds me. We were one
man short, and the captain approached a
visiting townie. “Sorry,” he said, “I
don’t know the first thing about the
game. I’d be utterly useless.” “We need
an umpire, too,” went on the skipper.
“Oh,” said the other, “I’ll umpire with
pleasure.” He did, and we won easily.
* * * *
“Cygnet”: I am quite sure that Pro-
fessor Murdoch, of Perth Uni., who gets
a whole Red Page to himself (B. 3 / 3 / ’37)
wrote scholarly editorials, as well as
literary reviews, for the “Argus” before
Westralia found in him a talented Pro-
fessor of English with the saving grace
of humor. I was running a weekly paper
in Perth a year or two after the local
Uni. got into going order, and, Mur-
doch’s reputation having preceded him, I
informed our readers, on the strength of
a vague rumor, that the Saturday leaders
in the “West Australian” —a trifle pon-
derous but showing wide erudition—came
from his practised hand. The professor
wrote asking me to correct the statement,
and his letter was certainly the most
humorous item in that week’s issue. He
said that he didn’t know if the work
attributed to him was a compliment or
not, for the simple reason that he never
read editorials; no man, he concluded,
who had ever written such things for pay-
ment could be expected to read them for
pleasure or profit. I tried to draw him
again by comparing him with Shakspeare,
who, an old tradition goes, when a com-
pany of strolling players arrived at Strat-
ford-on-Avon with the idea of present-
ing “Hamlet,” was among the signatories
of a petition asking the Mayor to forbid
such exhibitions in the borough. But
there was no response this time.
ACROSS THE WAY.
They are laughing across the way,
In a lamplit world of their own,
Two lovers whom love makes gay;
She rumples his hair in play—
I sit in the dusk alone!
From my poinsettia’s torch
Red fire comes shuddering down
On gable and grey old porch,
And its crimson shadows scorch
Turf that is bare and brown.
But over the way love burns—
Young love like a vision of gold
'Mid the bronzen-fronded ferns,
In their coppery green-rimmed urns,
Set deep in the humid mould.
Young love in its world apart,
How fenced and secure it stands!
It is strange that I feel no smart
As Loneliness takes my heart
And breaks it between her hands.
QUEENSLAND.
J. HOLLOWAY.


20/,„.r(>
10/„r0“
My throat is grateful for
that extra touch of quality.
CRAVENA
ARE MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS.
wm
GENE R A T
THE
TIPPED CIGARETTE
THIS
POLITICAL POINTS
The Q.C.E. must have been a very
sick body on Saturday night. Federal
Labor wanted to oppose the Constitution
Alteration (Marketing) Bill, but the
Q.C.E. commanded the Queensland
Labor members to support it in Parlia-
ment and speak for it on the platform.
State Labor was also ordered to give
it lip in the same cause. Queensland
turned down the Q.C.E.’s baby by 2 to 1.
Arthur Griffith’s prophecy, written in
Barrack-sreet, Sydney, and here received
on March 3:
The electors hold such a poor opinion
of the inept Lyons Government that they
will not give it any additional powers.
About 10,000 electors in N.S.W. will
vote Yes because J. T. Lang advocates No.
And perhaps 15,000 more made their
ballot-papers informal for the same
reason.
In the State electorate of Wilmot
(Tas.) three years ago (the Federal boun-
daries are the same) Nats, scored 12,436
votes, Labs. 7805 and Inds. 1585. One
of the Inds. was a Lab., who was elected.
On Feb. 27, Labs, got 12,627, Nats.
9542 and Inds. 623 ; marketing-
referendum voting was 4044 for and
14,678 against. Lyons represents Wilmot,
and unless something drastic happens
in the meantime poor old Joe will have
gone to rest by the end of the year.
Darwin (Tas.) has become appallingly
unsafe for G. J. Bell, the Speaker at
Canberra. He won it first in 1919, his
opponent being a certain Joseph Aloysius
Lyons, then Labor, and lost it in 1922
to Whitsitt, who did not stand again.
Bell’s subsequent majorities fluctuated
greatly. Last time he finished with 2145
votes to the good in a poll of 24,397.
At the State election last month his party
was nearly 4000 down in Darwin: Lab.
14,179; Nat. 10,379; Inds. 128. A
passing Bell?
Arnold Wienholt, who has been a
State, and Commonwealth representative
of Queensland, returned to public life
to defend inter-State freetrade, and said
it was a fight between the politicians and
the people. Arnold had absented himself
from Australian affairs since he set out
for Ethiopia, to discover that the
Ethiopians had been “cruelly misled,
shamefully betrayed and basely aban-
doned by that sham and perjured League
of Nations.” He made Queenslanders
grin by pointing out that there was “one
overwhelming argument, if no other, for
voting No: all the party politicians are
telling you to vote Yes.”
There is no actual alliance between the
Victorian Agrarians and Labs., but they
have co-operated in the Assembly for
nearly two years and spoke together on
Yes platforms during the referendum
campaign. The nomination of a Labor
ticket for the Senate threatens the first
rift in the lute. The Cockies will have
to run three candidates of their own or
let U.A.P. and Labs, fight it out. In
either case, it will be shown that theirs
is the weakest party of the three.
When Collier, who was to become
Westralian Premier for upwards of nine
years, reached Boulder at the beginning
of the century and got a job as cor-
poration laborer, Norbert Keenan —in
after years a member of two Liberal
Ministries —was Mayor of Kalgoorlie.
The marketing referendum led to their
speaking from the same platform for
the first time, each being a Nay. Collier
is (or was) a unificationist, and Keenan
was (and perhaps is) a secessionist, but
that did not stand in the way of the odd
association, so long delayed.
The vulgar wrangle as to which N.S.W.
provincial politician shall go to the
Coronation “as guest of the Empire Par-
liamentary Association,” though really
at N.S.W.’s expense, has resulted in pas-
sages being booked for Deputy-Premier
Bruxner and the customary “adviser.”
It is agreed that Bruxner will need to
recruit his exhausted energies after the
saddening result of the marketing refer-
endum, and there is no better prescrip-
tion for brain-fag and disappointment
than a Coronation trip.
On January 29 five lives were lost in
a collision between steamers in Hobson’s
Bay, and, according to an old Victorian
custom, an open inquiry was con-
ducted by a Court consisting of a magis-
trate and two sea-captains —“nautical
assessors.” On February 19 five lives
were lost in an aeroplane smash near the
N.S.W.-Q. border; but, though lots of
people are asking questions, there is to
be nothing like that public investigation
at Melbourne by the Court of Marine
Inquiry. Parkhill will have no such
thing. In Parkhill’s set it simply isn’t
done.
“A Defence Department car in which the Minister and a member of his family were
riding figured in a collision with a Sydney tram. According to the Minister, the damage
done was not serious.”
“When Shall Their Glory Fade? Oh, the Wild Charge They Made!”
For the second half of 1936 value of
Australian exports to that bad-customer
country the Netherlands East Indies de-
clined by £210,000 to £470,000, and value
of exports to China fell from £549,000 to
£185,000 ; the comparison is with the cor-
responding period of 1935. But imports
from China were up £lOO,OOO, imports
from the N.E.I. up £400,000. Yes, we
send Trade Commissioners to China and
the N.E.I. In 1935 Canberra dispatched
a whole flock of Trade Commissioners
and Assistant Trade Commissioners to
China, the N.E.I. and Japan. Exports
to Japan for the same six months were
valued at £539!
Mr. Have-a-heart, of Alberta, has de-
faulted for the last time —to the mugs
who believed him when he undertook to
pay them a “national dividend” of $25
a month. He has now confessed that he
can’t pay them a cent, and has “urged
district councils to vote whether he
should continue as leader of the. Gov-
ernment.” Meanwhile Douglas, who was
employed as Alberta’s adviser, has
written another book.
The N.S.W. Government has sus-
pended its Road Transport Commis-
sioner, who has to answer a police prose-
cution. It may have, a legal right to
suspend him, but he cannot be dismissed
except by resolution of both Houses.
N.S.W. Commissioners “administering
Government activities” have vast
powers. The Auditor-General points out
that they “have been given authority to
sanction all classes of expenditure inci-
dental to their management without
seeking Ministerial or other approval.”
They can even “make or direct payments
to themselves for expenditure on enter-
tainment, travelling expenses and the
like” ; and that includes trips overseas
and purchase of new cars.
A Sydney municipal employee tripped
into the Bankruptcy Court last week
with a tale that he had borrowed “as
much as I could” from 13 moneylenders,
and that in instalments to those worthies
and bankruptcy fees he was paying
£7 15s. a week out of a net salary of
£8 12s. Id. Total liabilities, £339 15s. 7d.
What a State politician he would have
made!
Queensland’s Government railwaymen
are being rounded up again. Any em-
ployee who can’t show a ticket or other
proof of membership of a union when
he goes to collect his pay for the. fort-
night to March 21 will get the sack.
Dates of expiry are to be checked and
noted. No excuse will be accepted,
whether based on conscience, political
belief or conviction, good-service record,
war record or otherwise. Of course,
such matters have no bearing on soli-
darity in “the taxpayers’ railways.”
Perhaps because it tires so easily when
it tries to think, Canberra gets itself in-
volved in baffling inconsistencies. Imme-
diately after it began its trade war on the
U.S.A. by imposing all sorts of restric-
tions on imports of motor vehicles and
parts, it removed the years-old embargo
on imports of American ’planes—the
Stinson wrecked on the N.S.W.-Queens-
land border was a consequent purchase.
And even while it was starting its quarrel
with Japan which cost Australia
£7,500,000 in loss of exports for the six
months to December, 1936, it was sanc-
tioning the Japanese connection with the
Yampi Sound iron ore deposits. In the
situation brought about by Britain’s re-
armament policy, this has become fear-
fully embarrassing, but Canberra —about
half of it is going to the Coronation —
will make a strenuous effort to forget it.
Lyons has told the press that the
appointment of another petrol commis-
sion would be useless. If it were as
useless as the last one everyone would
agree. The report of that tribunal has
been buried so deep that it takes 13s. 6d.
to extract a copy from its grave in the
Commerce Department. And, even at
that price, the Commerce Department
had difficulty in digging up a copy.
According to a visiting M.L. professor,
the Labor Prime Minister “still holds the
confidence of the dairy farmers, public
servants and young people” who voted
him into power. Dairy farmers? Tara-
naki, Maoriland’s most intensive dairying
province, returned its four sitting mem-
bers, all non-Labor.
Maoriland is temporarily losing some
of it's Labor mouthpieces. P.M. Savage
is to join Finance Minister Nash in
London. Minister of Labor Arm-
strong leaves for Geneva in April
to tell the International Labor Con-
ference how to bring Arbitration
Court findings into line with the
additional demands of stay-in strikers.
Works Minister Semple has been threat-
ening for some months to cross the
Tasman for a look at Australia’s hydro-
electricity, transport and irrigation sys-
tems. Maoriland will be strangely silent
if he goes.
Canberra will probably find another
£15,000 this year—same as last year—
for the annual exodus of politicians. But
the allocation for the Australian pavilion
at the Paris International Exhibition,
where other countries are spending half
a million sterling on showing their
produce, is £3OOO.
Australian gold production for 1936
was 1,167,126 fine ounces valued at
£10,104,807 Australian. It was the best
return since the last war year, and was
up 253,390 fine ounces on the 1935 out-
put. Canberra attributes the result to
“the increase in the price of gold and the
Commonwealth Government’s grant of
£500,000 to assist goldmining.” If that
grant added £lOOO to the output it would
be a miracle.
It looks as if the marketing referendum
result will hasten the dissolution of
N.S.W.’s Egg Marketing Board. This
concern fell into difficulties a few years
ago, and the Sydney Government had
to guarantee a loss of £44,741. Export
of hen-fruit to what Stevens calls the
inexhaustible British market was a failure
last season, and poultry farmers have
been notified of a thumping increase in
“levy on eggs produced.” Hundreds of
them have, organisations which furiously
assail the board. The latter hits back
as furiously.
Forgan Smith is trying to prevent the
Queensland sugar industry from cutting
its own throat. With low world prices
and low world demand, a subsidised in-
dustry and a strictly limited local market,
Queensland, he says, must follow world
example and rationalise its output.
Northern growers are the main objectors,
but Forgie has told them clearly that they
are all in it together, and will stand or
fall together. If they fall, then the State
Government will have to take over their
failure, and, as he reminded them, there
may not be a sympathetic Forgie avail-
able in a few years’ time.
After its recent failures over diplo-
matic arrangements, finance, air-mail ser-
vices, shell-poaching and the rest, Can-
berra should really be renamed Can’t-
berra. Those who don’t care for the
apostrophe are at liberty to omit it.
[Any referendum matter requiring a signature
is signed by J. E. Webb and Cecil Mann, 252
George-street North, Sydney.]


THE HAND THAT ROCKS THE CRADLE.
“Women are now invading so many avenues that once belonged to men that it probably will not be long before we are remaining at home rocking the cradle.”
Sydney speaker welcoming Jean Batten.


PORTABLE SHORT-
WAVE THERAPY.
Specially designed Short-wave
unit, with large output. Com-
pact, light and portable—most
suitable for the General Practi-
tioner.
Medical Practitioners interested
in this unit, watch for the
Kingsley Touring Research
Van at present touring Vic-
toria.
All particulars from —
Kingsley Teleradio
Constructions Pty., Ltd.
249-51 Spring Street,
Melbourne C.l, Vic.
v» Ufa
Australia’s Leading Financial Journal .
March Issue Now on Sale.
ARMAMENTS AND MARKETS.
BANKING POSITION.
BASE-METAL POSITION.
WORTH-WHILE STOCKS.
PRICE 2/- PER COPY, OR £l/2/6 PER ANNUM POSTED.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., 252 George Street, Sydney, and all States.
Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House-
holders’ Comprehensive, Workers’
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
PERSONAL ITEMS
Ben Chaffey’s was a great name 32
years ago, when he and his father and
Uncle W. B. Chaffey were pioneering
Australian irrigation. They were mem-
bers of a Canadian family which came
to Australia in 1885 to become the
fathers of Mildura. Ben Chaffey owned
a number of sheep stations, was a
director of Goldsbrough Mort and chair-
man of United Distilleries. His main
hobby was racing, and in 47 years on the
turf he had many triumphs. Stagefright
won the Adelaide Grand National Hurdle
for him in 1920, and he owned Manfred
and Whittier. In 1930 he became chair-
man of the V.A.T.C. He was 60 at the
end.
No Australian covers more ground
geographically and physically than A. E.
Moray. His visits to the cities are only
occasional, but there is no corner of the
N.T. that does not know him and like
A.E. MORAY, OF N.T.
him. Coming from Western Queens-
land, he crossed the Long Fence about
30 years ago, and is now chief pastoral
inspector to Vesteys, some of the stations
under his eye being bigger than European
kingdoms.
Brigadier General “Jack” Macquarie
An till, who fought on gamely to the end,
which came mercifully to him in Sydney
the other day, was a bluff old soldier
with a long family tradition of soldiering
behind him. His grandfather, major in
the 73rd (second battalion of the Black
Watch), came to Australia as aide to
Governor Macquarie ; the family estate
at Picton (N.S.W.) was named Jarvis-
field after Macquarie’s first wife, and
Macquarie has become a family name.
Jack Antill saw his earliest soldiering in
India, where he was attached to the
Imperial army in the ’nineties. In
S’Africa he commanded the first contin-
gent of N.S.W. Mounted Rifles, was men-
tioned many times in dispatches and fin-
ished up with seven clasps to his medals
and a C.B. In the later war he made a
place for himself in history as the man
who controlled the last phases of the
evacuation of Anzac. He was in a
number of scraps in Palestine, including
Romani, commanded the 2nd Infantry
Brigade in France and returned further
decorated with a C.M.G. For a time he
was State Commandant in S. Australia.
He retired in 1924.
A great barracker for Australia has
passed on in North Carolina (U.S.A.)
with the death at 95 of I. B. Millner. A
contemporary of “Hop” in American art,
he fought in the Civil War and was the
last survivor of the battle of Mobile
Bay, in which he was at the maintop of
Farragut’s flagship. Sydney knew him
as an expert in marble, and for many
years he was a familiar figure at gather-
ings of the Royal Art Society.
H. A. Hanke, the young artist who
developed overnight from relief-worker
to Archibald Prize winner, has added
another laurel to his honors —this year’s
vSulman prize. Since winning the Archi-
bald award in 1934, Hanke has painted
the portraits of many leading men.
Ellis Sutton (86), headed on the last
contract from Rockhampton (Q.), was a
pioneer in harnessing petrol to the mail-
bags between Isisford and Blackall
(C.Q.). In an earlier day he was one
of the State’s best professional photo-
graphers ; his pictures of beauty spots
and industrial undertakings used to be
features of official displays.
Australia’s delegate to the Inter-
national Labor Conference at Geneva
this year is to be J. E. Pullan, who pre-
sides over the Sydney Trades and Labor
Council. Pullan, a bookbinder, works in
the N. S. Wales Government Printing
Office and achieves membership of the
T. and L.C. and the A.C.T.U. by virtue
of his presidency of the Amalgamated
Printing Trades Union.
Just dead John Anderson Gilruth,
Scottish-born, with a cosmopolitan educa-
tion, was Australia’s leading animal
doctor before the war, when he held the
professorship of Veterinary Pathology at
Melbourne University. After having in
1911 accompanied a scientific expedition
to the N.T., he was picked by the Com-
monwealth as an Administrator, and for
eight years his was about the tallest figure
to be seen in Darwin streets. His regime
astonished the natives. Previous “Resi-
dents” had knocked round in an old
buggy ; his change to a more ceremonial
conception of the job was little to the
liking of a then very democratic Darwin
population, largely made up of meat-
workers. But even those to whom this
was most unpopular respected his Scot-
tish pugnacity. Gilruth retired not un-
thankfully to his own element, and in
recent years capably held down a job as
chief of the Animal Health division of
the C.S. and I.R.
“N.M.L.”: Guy Standing, whose death
was mentioned in a review of the picture
“Lloyd’s of London” (B. 3/3/’37), was
in Australia early in 1892, as a youth of
18, with Mrs. Bernard Beere’s London
company; and in the same year he
made with that actress the first of his
many American appearances. In London
he was known for a time as Guy
Stanton. Guy Standing’s father, Herbert
Standing, was a leading member of that
company. For a century nearly every
member of the family has been a recruit
for the stage. The original Standing
was a Quaker civil servant. One of his
sons was Frank Celli, a singer, whose
daughter Faith Celli was a favorite of
London theatres in the pre- and early
post-war years. Her great part was
Margaret in “Dear Brutus.” Herbert, the
second son, gave the stage four actors,
of whom Guy Standing was the eldest.
A third son of the original James was
well-known as a dramatic author and
vocalist under the name of Will
Carleton ; his son, W. P. Carleton, Guy
Standing’s cousin, followed in the family
footsteps.
Adelaide’s shipping and timber firm of
George Wills and Co. has lost its chair-
man of directors, C. F. Rischbieth. He
is succeeded by J. H. Gosse, who has
grown up with the co. and is on various
other boards, besides being a staunch
football supporter.
Jolly and stout, Frank Guilfoyle, until
a few weeks ago Surgeon-Lieut. R.A.N.,
is now mine host at his late dad’s pub,
Hotel Australia, Murray-street, Perth.
He succeeds lawyer J. Monaghan as
licensee. It needs only a cleric to follow
Frank and all three learned professions
will have had a representative.
The new Moderator of Brisbane Pres-
byterian Synod, Rev. S. Summers, trod
the Inky Way as country newspaper
editor before he took to the kirk. He
has turned his experience to account as
editor of “Outlook,” Presbyterianism’s
Queensland official organ.
Billy Demaine, who at 78 won Mary-
borough (Q.) State seat, left vacant by
the death of Mines Minister Jimmy Stop-
ford, is a very hale proof that the climate
of mid-Queensland cannot be too bad.
In the war years Billy took a strong
stand on such matters as conscription,
and his speeches were vivid and pungent.
Though one of the ablest men in the
movement, it is characteristic of him
that in his heyday he had no political
ambitions, and let others take the lion’s
share of the party spoils.
From Crawford Vaughan:
Jacques Lidji, the power behind the Ballet
throne in Col. de Basil’s Monte Carlo Company,
now in Maoriland, shares with the Cossack
leader the managing directorship of this travel-
ling miniature of the League of Nations. Lidji,
who has such a penchant for keeping out of the
limelight that he is scarcely known to the
balletomanes, is a distinguished member of the
French Bar, with headquarters in Paris and
chambers in London. He speaks six languages
fluently, and can converse, not so easily, in three
more. His love of the art of the ballet led him
temporarily to forsake his practice and join
Col. de Basil, for whom he had acted as legal
adviser, and assist in the Australasian tour. By
his company Jacques Lidji is called Le Maitre.
W. Murray Fowler, managing director
of D. and J. Fowler, a firm whose
branches stretch from London to Broken
Hill, has a wide variety of commercial
interests expanding from his office in
Adelaide. He salts his leisure with the
W. MURRAY FOWLER, OF
ADELAIDE.
presidency of the S. Australian Aero
Club and a seat on the committee of the
S.A. Royal Automobile Club. Though
only 19 when war broke out, Fowler got
away early as a second lieutenant and
came home a major in 1919. He is an
ardent wielder of the mashie.
This year’s president of the Royal
Automobile Club of Australia, which has
its headquarters in Sydney, is John
Butters, who has packed a lot of big
engineering work into his 51 years. At
29 he was head of the Tasmanian hydro-
electric scheme, and held the job till
1924, when he left it to become chief
commissioner at Canberra. Knighted in
1927, he moved into private practice in
Sydney a couple of years later. He is a
director of a number of companies, in-
cluding Associated Newspapers.
W. C. Douglass, chairman of the board
of the Australia Hotel, Sydney, and of
W. C. Douglass, Ltd., was born at Port
Macquarie (N.S.W.) 70 years ago, and
has been in the wholesale grocery busi-
ness for half a century. Other interests
in a hale and active life include horse-
racing ; he owned Claro, Bagpipes and,
AUSTRALIA HOTEL’S CHAIRMAN.
with James Murdoch, Vitality. In the
’eighties he was a friend and neighbor
of “Hop,” who had the next-door camp
on the then remote Balmoral beach, and
he recalls that in those days visiting Eng-
lish cricket teams played a Sunday match
there regularly when on tour, usually
with at least three men fielding knee-
deep in the bay.
One of the North’s best barrackers
has gone with the passing of Bishop
Frodsham. Lancastrian-born, he trans-
ferred to Queensland in 1896 after an
apprenticeship at a church beside Ilkley
Moor. From a Toowong (Brisbane)
church he became chaplain to the
Bishop of Brisbane and in 1902 Bishop
of North Queensland, returning to
Gloucester the year before the war as a
canon residentiary. Latterly, he was a
rural dean and vicar of Halifax. A lean,
active man, who lived in his younger
days in a whirl of activity, he was one
of those, responsible for the foundation of
Townsville’s Institute of Tropical Medi-
cine, and he wrote a couple of good books
on Australian matters, ecclesiastical and
otherwise.
“Mountaineer” begs to differ:
It was Robert Luckham —not Fordyce
Wheeler (B. 3/3/’37) —who told the police of
his suspicions about Frank Butler. As a result
the murderer was brought back from America
to Sydney, and was executed for the killing of
Luckham’s friend Captain Lee Weller, retired
master mariner. Successively within a few
months of 1896 Butler took at least three men
prospecting in neighboring areas: Burgess dis-
appeared in August, and the two others in
October. The body of Lee Weller was found
buried at Glenbrook, and at Linden was that
of Arthur Preston, a young Queenslander who
had been studying mineralogy in Sydney. Butler,
a man of many aliases, assumed Lee Weller’s
name, using it when he sold that victim’s cloth-
ing in Sydney and when, soon afterwards, he
worked his passage from Newcastle to San
Francisco on the Swanhilda and conducted
prayer meetings among the crew. Taking faster
means of transport from N.S.W. to ’Frisco,
Detectives Roche and McHattie and Constable
Conroy got there first, and Butler was “wel-
comed” to California by Australian and Ameri-
can detectives and many reporters, who boarded
the Swanhilda from a launch.


(> \ $
M
$
/
£
cc
"3
1
a
i»V^s
Via
y' X>_
D
V)
Tl
k
k-J
9 thei S A
HIGH
ANTI - KNOCK
RATING
★ Because he doesn’t need one
-and all the better for thatl
A thing that wins by its own easy excellence does not need
artificial boosting. The refined pure petrol in Super Shell, which
gives the best anti-knock performance on this market, does not
need artificial aid from any added ingredients. Its anti-knock
leadership, like its leadership in all other petrol qualities, derives
entirely from use of the rarest, most powerful crudes in the world,
refined by the most advanced scientific refining methods.
Super Shell, the only crystal-clear super petrol, the most ad-
vanced anti-knock spirit in the world, a jump ahead of all other
super petrols—excels in knockless performance, instant starting,
swift pick-up, least petrol-cost per mile, and surging top-gear
power that is not approached by any other spirit
WYL
\
THE SHELL COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED (INCORPORATED IN GREAT BRITAIN).
3105 H


BLACK & WHITE WHISKY "PURRY GOOD!"
“Nagheer”: Who says that the Aus-
tralian abo. is the least progressive of
the human species? In 1868 Johnny
Mullagh scored, in England, against
England’s best, 1679 runs, and took 245
wickets for 2457. Sixty-three years
before him, an abo. fought in the Vic-
tory at Trafalgar and did so well that
he gained promotion to captain of the
foretop in another ship of the line.
Charlie Samuels is rated by Jim McGarri-
gal, himself a topnotcher, the best ped.
ever produced in Australia. Charlie’s
times ran to nine and three-fifths for
the. 100, and nineteen and a tenth for
the 200, with a stride which increased
to nine feet at the finish of a race. Jerry
Jerome cleaned up Australia’s leading
middleweights when he was in his forties,
and was also a first-rate sprinter and
tennis-player. In recent years Eddie Gil-
bert bowled Don Bradman for a duck.
Intellectually, too, abos. have put up
some fine performances —the Rev. David
Unaipon is an example.
* * * *
“O. W. Waireki”: Our orchardist,
Olley, wanted a watchdog. Henare said
he could supply one at a reasonable
charge. After a week’s trial Olley re-
turned the hound, declaring that it was
useless. “Several strangers have been
prowling around lately,” he explained,
“and the brute didn’t even bark.”
Henare looked hurt. “Course he never
bark,” he said sourly. “He only te
watch dog—keeps his eyes wide open,
an’ his mouth shut ready for business.”
* $ * *
“Yangardook”: On the back run of
a W.Q. cattle station was an outsized
hut used for housing windmill parts,
fencing gear and the station hand who
looked after the mills. The walls were
substantially built of a salty pug from
a near-by soak, mixed with bush grass.
Heavy rains having filled the swamps,
the mill hand went off for a month’s
accumulated leave. On his return
Freezer the abo. drove him out, to find
that, apart from an iron roof on the
ground trampled almost beyond recog-
nition, the. hut had disappeared. Under
the third degree Freezer admitted that
on the only occasion he had been sent
out to ride round the bullocks he saw
the fence knocked down and about 100
bullocks having a lick at the old shanty.
Not fancying a trip out again to keep
them off or fix up the fence, he never
mentioned the matter, and meanwhile
the 2000 head running out there had
licked the hut completely out of exis-
tence. If this is not a true bill, then my
butcher, Dick Hicks, should be kicked
out of our Sunday school.
“Old-timer”: Running out of tucker
while humping their knots west of Con-
dobolin (N.S.W.), Bluey and Dutch dis-
covered a mob of wethers camped in a
fence corner. Some time later as, re-
plete with grilled mutton, they reclined
by the fire, up rode a station boss and
two hands. The boss wanted to know
where they got the mutton. After some,
sidestepping, Dutch said, “Well, boss,
we was pretty hungry, and when we saw
this here jumbuck was dead we just
couldn’t resist.” “Dead, was it?” said the
boss. “How did it die?” “Well, me mate
here,” replied Dutch, “used to be a
knife-thrower in a circus. We had no-
thing to do and he was showing me how
to hold the knife to throw it. Them
sheep gathered round—you know how
silly they are —and before we could do
anything one silly cow came too close
and the knife cut its throat. We thought
it a pity to waste it, and so” It was
too much for the boss; after being
assured the skin was properly hung on
the fence, he merely said “No more
knife-throwing, mind,” and rode away.
“How far is it from here to Sydney as the crow flies ?”
“Cant tell yer, Mister. None o’ the black blanks ever leave here.”
“Dingo”: Pulling down fences roumi
bush cemeteries might stop them getting
filled up so quickly. As a rule, animals
are not allowed to graze inside, in defer-
ence to sentimental prejudice. The result
is 10 to 20 seasons of accumulated dry
grass, waiting for the first spark in a
dry summer. Burning-off is usually
impossible on account of timber rail-
ings round the graves of pioneers who
didn’t accumulate the necessary dross
for a piece of stone. If there isn’t a
bushfire, the places are sure to be chock-
full of variegated serpents. As appeal-
ing to trustees is about as useful as talk-
ing to the occupants, I make it a practice
to knock down a panel or two of fenc-
ing on the quiet and say nothing. There
is no patent on the idea ; those who love
their fellowmen this side of the Great
Divide, please copy. By the time any-
one wakes up, the stock have the grass
down.
* * * *
“Lower Tops 1”: Our shearing team
was camped at a well on Roebuck Plains
station, outside Broome (W.A.). To-
wards midnight most of us who weren t
kept awake by the warlike mosquitoes
were roused by the alarming roars and
pawings of a young bull that had come
in alone to drink. Apparently the white
object standing isolated in the moon-
light raised its anger, for the animal
charged it broadside on, and, passing
over the slumbering form of our gun
shearer, took the protecting mosquito-
net away on its horns. We rushed over,
to find the sleeper untouched and still
snoring. But at dawn he sat up on his
swag, a sour man as he began to scratch
a thousand bites and to describe the man
who pinched his net. He still flatly dis-
believes what he describes as “that bull
story.”
* * * *
“Golden Mile”: Of all the impromptu
beds I ever slept in the Cousin Jack
barrow, made familiar by Oswald Pryor’s
drawings, was the most comfortable, the
front board a nice angle for one’s back,
the back board nicely taking the knees
and the handles the feet. If one could
wangle a bag or two it was all the
better. With that outfit at 2 a.m. a
thousand feet down one needed no rock-
ing off to sleep. One night the shift
boss—a Cousin Jack —happened along.
“Doan’t sit in they barrows, boay,” he
ordered. “They be greatest cure for
insomny ever invented.”
“Bogaduck”: Few ornithologists men-
tion now the call notes of some birds
vary in different localities. One, for in-
stance, describes the little wattle-bird’s
cry as resembling “Get-up, keik-kewick,
but those in my patch of S.A. scrub say
“Kick-off, Brarka,” and about miles
away, in Victoria, the cry is “Cook-ay,
cock.” The white cockatoo in western
Vic. has a cry very different from that
of those around my home; but the
greatest difference of all is in the caw-
ing of the Port Lincoln crow. I’ve shot
several of them, and they differ in no
way from the Kelly found elsewhere, yet
they have a distinctive, long-drawn cry
which can be heard nowhere else.
* * * *
“Murlonga”: I’ve watched Test
cricketers at play, and, though their pick-
ing up of a ball and returning it in one
action has moved others to applause,
they have always left me cold. If those
who cheer had ever seen an old gin—
any old gin—haul a snake or goanna out
of a hole, they’d know what the poetry
of motion really looks like. A snake or
goanna might hang on for five, minutes
or more before it decides to let go, but,
no matter how long or short the period
might be, the gin is never taken by sur-
prise. There is no flick, hesitation or
break in the. movement whatever, but a
complete swing which ends with a thud
as the reptile has the senses knocked
out of it. Next to this performance I’d
place, that of the expert who picks up
snakes by the tails.
* * * *
“Oran”: At a school caif parade at
Waipu, a Scottish settlement in North
M.L., one exhibit had an extraordinary
coat: never had the authorities seen such
bloom on an animal. It was awarded
highest marks. No other feasible ex-
planation forthcoming, cause of the
shining skin was credited to half a
gallon of used motor oil which the
poddy was known to have stowed away.
* * -f *
“Beck-raker”: That pose of disdain
for anyone fishing trout with a dry fly
(B. 3/ 2 / ’37) shows little sense. Fly of
any kind can be used only in certain
waters, and when conditions are not suit-
able the kings of fly-fishing do not dis-
dain to employ other lures —Sir Edward
Grey and others with names as great
have written on these and the manner
of their employment. Worm-fishing is
not very sporting, but the spinning min-
now is universally employed by the best
of anglers where the water is so over-
grown with untrimmed hedges—as in
most Yorkshire “becks” —as to make fly-
casting impossible. The most unortho-
dox lure I ever saw was an artificial
prawn. At Brig of Allan, in Scotland,
I was with a schoolfellow whose dad
was a fisherman of the most orthodox.
Allan Water was. full of salmon, but
devil a one would rise at ordinary bait.
The prawn was then produced, bright
scarlet as if it had just come from a
Circular Quay basket. The fish went
for it in shoals, and kept at it until sanity
returned and they went back to the
extraordinary colored contraption which
is called a salmon fly.
* * * *
“Nordbo”: On his second day as a
lengthsman Sven, the Swede, was ad-
dressed by the ganger: “We’ve, got to
replace this worn length of rail with a
new one. Get back to the half-mile cut-
ting, let 35 up through, then put these
detonators on the line, to stop all others.
Savvy?” Back in the cutting Sven found
a comfortable seat, filled his pipe and
settled down to wait. “De bestest yob
Ai’ve had,” he said. Presently a train
went by —the Cairns-Tableland (N.Q.)
mail, the 35 up. It passed the repair
gang, who immediately began to rip the
line up. Half-way through the job a
whistle sounded. “Damn that blasted
Swede!” swore the ganger. He grabbed
a red flag and ran towards the oncoming
train, stopping it just in time to prevent
a derailment. “Didn’t that bloke in the
cutting try to stop you?” he roared to
the driver. “Nit,” came the reply ; “we
saw a bloke there, but he said nothing.”
made hfs t 0 Sven .
~D id ? t you t 0 stop aU trains after
J 5 blockheaded fool?” “Fool!”
said p s ’ V cn indignantly. “Dirty-dree must
come more else Ai s , dems? ain - t ;,?■>
He attributes , he sack to political influ-
encg
’ * * *
„ Louden „. The fat . )amb buyer ra n
hjs ke£n eye Qver the Riverina farmer ’s
offering and said he estimated their aver-
age Pressed weight at 341 b. The farmer
contended that 401 b. would be nearer
t h e mark, “Maybe so,” countered the
buyer, “but it would take six days to
get these lambs to our freezing works
and you must remember a fat lamb loses
a pound a day while it s tnrveiling. A
pound a day? queried the •
“About that, said the buyer. H»en,
said the cocky, after thinking it.o' >
I started off to drove them to Melb
there’d only be me and the dog ieu
when we got there!”
THE HERO.
"At Dingo Creek,” the old man said, “outsiders
very seldom call,
But when they do you’ll hear them ask just
why the township’s there at all.
Such questions pain us local blokes —they sorta
get beneath our ’ide —
For, even if the joint is slow, there’s such a
thing as civic pride.
An’ though the town ain’t nuthin’ much —the
creek itself a muddy ditch—
I mind a time when Dingo Creek was worked
right up to concert pitch;
That was the time —an’, spare me days, the beer
an’ whisky fairly flowed!
When Long Bill Jones took off ’is coat an’
started workin’ on the road.
“Long Bill ’ad always been a bloke who lived
a life of quiet ease,
The sort of easygoin’ cove with whom ’ard
yakka disagrees.
So when the mulga wires went out that Long
Bill Jones ’ad took to toil
From all around the district came the simple
children of the soil.
From ’orse-an’-cart an’ bullick-dray, all dressed
up in their Sundee best,
They gathered in to Dingo Creek to see ’ow Bill
would stand the test.
The Dingo band played stirrin’ toons —the local
poet wrote an ode—
When Long Bill Jones took off ’is coat an’
started workin’ on the road.”
The old man paused awhile in thought, then
heaved a sigh and shook his head:
“Me lad, the penalties of fame are sad to
contemplate,” he said.
“Long Bill got so puffed up with pride that
’ero-worship always brings
That then an’ there ’e tells ’imself ’e was cut
out for bigger things.
Per’aps ’e was —it’s ’ard to say—but ever
since that single splurge,
As far as yakka goes, it seemed that Bill
completely lost the urge.
But memory hoards that vanished day when
Dingo Creek its praise bestowed
An’ Long Bill Jones took off ’is coat an’
started workin’ on the road.”
VICTORIA.
ELLENVALE.


‘Marlinspike”: Don’t tell me that
miracles don’t happen any more. An
angler at Southport (S.Q.) found that
sport was slow. Fastening his flathead
line to a stake, he left beside it a stone-
weighted note, “Please don’t touch—
back soon,” and departed for the surf.
Returning an hour later, cooled and with
hope revived, he found the. line hauled
in and neatly coiled, a big flathead shaded
by a leafy branch, and an addition to
his note: “O.K. Hope you enjoy your
feed.” His less trustful friends describe
the yarn as the. most outrageous fish lie
on record, but, as he has resumed atten-
dance at church after a 30-year absence,
Im inclined to believe that there is a
supernatural basis in the strange, affair.
* * * *
"Gryllus”: One. good result of the
unprecedented drought is that salt water
has penetrated the great beds of water
hyacinth which obstruct the upper
reaches of the Brisbane and Bremer
rivers, and as far up as Riverview and
the Bremer entrance is killing it out in
immense quantity. One part of salt in
1000 of water is sufficient to do the pest
in. Salt-water fish and cral s have also
appeared in places where they have not
been seen in living memory. They are
supposed to make the. journey to fresher
waters for the purpose of freeing them-
selves from parasites which are less able
to stand low salt content than they are.
* * * *
“Hanko”: The growth of liquorice
that wished itself on a S.A. vinegrower to
his profit (B. 24/2/’37) reminds me of a
western Vic. cocky who received the
shock of his hard-working life when a
traveller for a firm of manufacturing
chemists offered him £3 an acre for a
grass-smothering invader that had spoilt
an otherwise rich little block. The stuff
was dandelion.
* * * *
“Ellenvale” : “I’m all for law an’ order
meself,” Long Bill told us, “but that
Choom who was scrub-cuttin’ with me
out at Munro carried the thing too far.
We ran out of tucker two days before
the mailman was due with our stuff, so
1 tells me mate to get the lines an’ try
for a few fish in the crick while I went
to see if I could dig out a rabbit or two.
“ What's the hunting cry in Australia, Sir? We shout 'Tally-ho!' at Home.”
1 digs all the afternoon without any luck,
an’ I’m feelin’ blanked up an’ hungry
when I gets back to camp at dark. His
nibs is sittin’ by the fire, an’ I asks him
if he had any luck. ‘No luck at all, Bill,’
he tells me. ‘I caught 15 or 16, but I
had to throw the blighters back. They
were undersized.’ An’ then he wondered
why I donged him.”
* * * *
“L’Allegro”: We have often had
calves and lambs born with our own
earmark, but a record was made recently
when Strawberry produced her first calf.
It bore the earmark of its grandmother,
bought six years ago from a station 30
miles away.
* * * *
“Yarri”: Several bush animals, in-
cluding the brumby, dig for water in
dry times, but the keenest in scenting out
a soakage is the kangaroo. He will
follow the sandy bed of a creek, smell-
ing here and there, till he finds the spot
h~.’s looking for. Then, squatting on the
sand, he digs till he’s able to get a drink
—usually less than a couple of feet down.
The soak outside Broken Hill, famous
for over half a century as Jacob’s Well,
was first dug out by kangaroos. The
marsupials sustained themselves there
when there was no other water in the
locality. “Kangaroo wells” occur in
many creek and river beds of the inland,
and the astute dingo knows them all. His
spoor is always found along those beds.
* * * *
“Dominic”: Dropped into Nugget’s
camp and found him dining on brownie
spread with a peculiar dark
jam full of tiny seeds. “Home-
made from local fruit,” he in-
formed me. There being no
fruit tree within 100 miles
I was curious ; then he showed
me acres alongside the dry
lake overgrown with pigweed,
and opened one of the ripe,
slightly - withered seedpods.
It was full of a sweet syrupy
jelly. “ ‘Wild fig,’ ” he said.
“All the old-time Gropers had
to make jam with. Boil some
of the rind in, too, to give it body.”
* * * *
“C. Coral”: To see a specimen of the
tree antipathy described earlier by an-
other Aboite “Centre” (B. 17/2/’37)
should stroll along the Thursday Island
seafront until he comes to Jack Mc-
Nulty’s Federal Hotel: there, close to the
beach, he will be shown a wanghi (the
sacred tree of Torres Strait) making
desperate efforts to bend its branches as
far as possible from the coconuts
planted close to its roots. Waraber Island,
in Torres Strait, used to furnish other
good examples. As the Islanders used
to say, “Them two tree he don’t like one
anoder, he out his face away altogether.”
I don’t know the reason ; my old friend
Jimmy Susu put it, “That the fashion
belong them fella.” As a contrast, at
Yorke Island there is a fine grove of
wanghi-trees that get along quite nicely
with the coconuts.
* * * *
“F.Y.7”: “Johnhop” and his friends
(B. 24/2/’37) would be wise not to train
sheep-dogs on hard ground as a counter
to tender feet troubles. That treatment
only makes matters worse. Owners of
working dogs in most parts of the world
now boot their dogs when the going is
hard. I don’t know anyone in this coun-
try who specialises in dog boots, but
there are plenty of saddlers turning out
exquisite work of the kind for trotting
horses, and these should be able to fill
the bill. Indeed, any handy bushman
should be able to shoe his tykes him-
self, using cloth or soft leather for the
uppers and remembering that they should
lace up in front.
* * * *
“Walkabout”: There is little loitering
by shearers (B. 17/2/’37) and once
“Game to go up for a fly, Jacky?”
“Game all right, Boss, but I see how you get on with Mary first”
they’ve got their hands in it’s “go for
your life, there’s money in it.” Few can
find the time to roll a cigarette ; a supply
is invariably made, overnight, and any
picker-up who asks for one gets some-
thing more than a black look. Let some
mathematician work out the distance
travelled and the weight carried by a
“gun” barbering 250 rough wethers in
eight hours. An average shearer juggles
to and from the catching pen about eight
tons weight of jumbuck during his daily
jaunt of around a mile. No wonder most
shearers have had enough at the whistle.
“Tamornie”: On a N.G. plantation
my “boy,” armed with a single-barrelled
shotgun loaded with buckshot, ways track-
ing a wounded pig, when the porker am-
bushed him. The hunter took a toss,
but managed to scramble into a young
palm, still grasping the gun, but unaware
that the muzzle was plugged with earth.
From a distance of a few feet he aimed
at the waiting pig and let fly. The un-
usual sound of the report took me to
the scene, where I found the “boy” lying
on his back, completely out to it, and
the pig dead, with a 9in. strip from the
burst barrel driven into its head.
“Hanko”: Notwithstanding enthusiasts
to the contrary, ants seem to know very
little about economics. Near a patch of
trefoil—a somewhat rare and scattered
growth in the paddock—black ants of a
harvester variety pioneered a colony and
garnered for their granary every seed of
the trefoil, which consequently died out.
Soon the ant colony was as absent as the
trefoil plants. If they were the eco-
nomists they’re cracked up to be, they’d
have allowed a few seeds to germinate.
But they even took care that there’d be
no risk of their spoils sprouting, every
seed being treated with a damp-proof
veneer which retards germination indefi-
nitely.
* * * *
“Nordbo”: At a time when Cairns
(N.Q.) was very young, Archie Meston,
a journalist and old-timer of the district,
sat one morning on the verandah of his
house at Kamerunga when a hungry
blackfellow came up. Meston brought
tucker in liberal quantities from the
kitchen, and after the meal the abo. held
out a nugget of gold. “You good pfelier,
boss,” he said. “By-’n’-bye me show dis
pfelier sit down.” But he never came
back. Blacks had committed some crime
or other, police reprisal parties were on
the warpath, shooting, as the custom
then was, all natives they came across,
and Meston’s hopes of a rich find van-
ished with the smoke from a trooper’s
rifle.
* =K * *
“No. 1 Bench”: No other timber tn
the world carries such range of texture,
both in workability and beauty of figure,
as jarrah. In years of timber-grading I
have seen mellow jarrah comparable
with the best Queensland cedar, tough-
grained stuff fit to do duty alongside
N.S.W. ironbark, and many gradations
between—experts claim 28 distinct. On
the turner’s lathe and the carver’s bench
mellow jarrah is without peer, so adapt-
able that, among other things, it has
been used for exquisitely worked figured
panels. Curly jarrah dressed and
polished gives an illusion of wonderful
transparent depth. Knots of jarrah turn
into most ornate bowls, and never two
alike. Then there is any quantity of
jarrah fit only for fencing and fruit-
cases. Westralia’s timber tragedy is that
till recently there had not been the slight-
est discrimination in the use of this
splendid wood.
THE ARMY MOVING SOUTH.
I watched them come, with their dark coats
spangled,
Blue-black and barred in the slanting sun,
0 er plains as black, where the tarvine tangled,
Their first-line flight from the north begun.
On a league-wide front they were southward
hieing,
In a crescent flight from the drought lands
flying,
From the north, where the white-bleached bones
are lying,
They go where the rain god’s gifts are won.
Elue sky above and the blue grass under,
Whose tassels toss like a restless sea,
Ten thousand strong, on a raid of plunder
They seem, as they sail on silently,
Away and away to the southward winging,
Mile upon mile behind them flinging,
They stream, to the age-old instinct clinging—
The ibis knows where the feasts are free.
N.S.W.
PAUL CUPID.


“PUMPMOBIL”
(PORTABLE)
PUMPING PLANTS.
REDUCTION IN PRICES!
i m !
•• :• ■*»
I||l
t- v;
■
m
■ jn
mt
Extensively used by Prospectors and
Mining Companies throughout Australasia
and South Sea Islands.
Weight, complete.. 1201 b.
Capacity .. .. 12,000 gallons per hour
Consumption . .. i-gallon Benzine or
Kerosene per hour.
All Heads from 10 to 100 feet.
NELSON & ROBERTSON, LTD.,
12 Spring Street. Sydney.
Country and Interstate Agents Wanted.
ADAMS' (TATTERSALL’S) HOTEL,
25!) PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 484 GEORGE STREET.
Rooms, 6/- and 8/- per day; Breakfast, Table d’Hote or a la Carte,
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE PUBLIC DINING ROOMS.
Lunch from 12 noon (Sunday, 12.45 p.m.), Din. ner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday, 5.45 p.m.).
Tables or Seats may be reserved by ’Phone, M 4601.
TO THOSE ABOUT TO TRAVEL
and who require expert management and undoubted security for their '
Estates during their absence—Perpetual Trustee Company (Limited)
is specially qualified to act as Attorney under Power or Agent. It
offers the services of a highly qualified staff to attend to all of your
affairs and can arrange to make regular payments to you in any
part of the world. You are invited to arrange an appointment with
a senior officer of the Company to discuss its methods and charges
or write for an explanatory booklet.
Directors;
T. H. Kelly (Chairman), Walter T. Brunton, Herbert R. Lysaght, 0.8. E.,
Lteut.-Col. the Hon. T. A. J. Playfair. M.L.C., E. R. Knox,
K. de L. Cudmore, H. V. Douglass (Managing Director).
Perpetual Trustee Company (Limited),
33-39 Hunter Street, Sydney.
Call or write for explanatory booklet.
P. Cureton, Manager.
ayioaco mum rs
m j '*%•«
W
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Pelaco, Ltd. (Melb.)
, Dividends x
A B
Prefs. Prefs. Ord. To Re- Re-
Dee., Profit. 7 p.c. 9 p.c. 8 p.c. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £ £
1926.. 21,692 2082 4500 13.200 12,637
4 p.c.
1927.. 15,070 2082 4500 6,600 14,525
1928.. 6,966 2082 4500 Nil 14,909
5 p.c.
1929.. 21,031 2082 4500 8,250 21,108
Loss.
1930.. 11,334 1041 2250 Nil 6,483
Deficit.
1931.. 38,550 Nil Nil Nil 32,067
Profit.
1932.. 10,784 5204 Nil Nil 26,487
1933.. 8,649 2082 2500 Nil 22,420
1934.. 3,669 2082 1500 Nil 22,333
1935.. 10,126 2082 4500 Nil 3544 18,789
1936.. 15,201 2082 7250 Nil 5869 12,920
This co. turns out shirts, collars,
pyjamas and other men’s wear. Its
£244,736 of capital is in 29,736 A 7 p.c.
and 50,000 B 9 p.c. cum. prefs. and
330,000 10s. ords. Earnings have been
erratic, but prospects are heartening. At
the moment appearances are. that the co.
will net enough during the current term
to nearly clean the B prefs.’ slate, thus
leaving the road clear for the resumption
of ord. divs. (the. last payment was 5 p.c.
in 1929), though the overdraft (£114,260,
up £13,760) may first call for reduction.
The trouble started with aggressive com-
petition during the post-war boom. This
and the abolition of piecework spoiled re-
sults in 1928. However, the system was re-
instated, and, with the aid of a vigorous
sales offensive, things began to look up
again. Then came slump, and to reduce
outside liabilities stock and book debts
had to be worked down on a falling
market, while exchange and the tariff—
the co. imports much of its raw materials
—and the hand-to-mouth policy of re-
tailers aggravated the difficulties. Hence
the losses in 1930 and 1931. Price-
cutting affected the ’32 and ’33 figures,
but good progress has been made since.
Last year turnover expanded, and
gross earnings (£83,310) increased
£12,764, despite difficulties connected
with Japanese imports. Exes. (£68,109)
took £7689 of the. increase, leaving the
net result £5075 better at £15,201, or
enough to pay a full year’s pref. divs. and
show 2.5 p.c. on ord. capital. After
handing the As 7 p.c. and the Bs 14£ p.c.,
leaving £13,500 (ss. 4|d. per share) still
to come on the latter, the £5869 that re-
mained reduced the amount of ord. capi-
tal unrepresented by tangibles to £12,920
—goodwill (£10,000) is not treated as an
asset herein.
The position as balance-sheet figures
show it compares with previous years as
follows:
1927. 1930. 1935. 1936.
Capital .. £244,736 £244,736 £244,736 £244,736
Liabilities . . 237,849 147,355 120,117 136,729
Premises .. 116,929 109,378 110,881 109,767
Plant, etc. . . 77,328 64,400 51,615 52,005
Book debts .. 124,692 75,090 90,907 95,313
Stock.. .. 182,202 150,378 79,331 104,129
Cash, etc. . . 3,250 720 22,460 16,665
The growth of £24,798 in vstocks was due
mainly to the. trade dispute with Japan.
To meet the outlay and carry an extra
£4406 of debtors’ balances, the co. went
outside, mainly to its bankers, for an
additional £16,612. The more or less
liquid surplus (£79,378) was £6797
stronger than at the previous balance.
Stocks are claimed to be “safely valued,”
and plant is reported in good order.
At 30s. 6d. (255. 6d. a year ago) the
B shares return 5.9 p.c., plus arrears.
There has been no sale of the As on
’Change for several months. The ords.
are priced at ss. 4d. as against 4s. 9d.
a year ago. The net tangible cover
(book value) is £7 16s. Id. As, £4 os. lOd.
Bs and 9s. 3d. ords.
The D.I.C.
All Maoriland knows the Drapery and
General Importing Co. of New Zealand,
Ltd., by those initials.
, —Dividends— : N
Pref. To Re- Re-
Aug., Profit. 6 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ si
1926.. 48,982 15,000 10 p.c. = 17,802 16,180 86,904
1927.-46,905 15,000 10 „ „ 17,827 14,078 100,982
1928.. 42.790 15,000 10 ~ „ 17,852 9,938 110,920
Profit on sale investments, £2580.. .. 113,500
1929.. 45.027.15,000 10 p.c. = 17,878 12,149 125,649
1930.. 37.447.15,000 10 „ „ 17,918 4,529 130,178
1931. .19,371 15,000 5 „ „ 8,976 125,573
1932.. 2,974 15,000 Nil 113,547
1933.. 17.207.12,500 2$ p.c. = 4,532 175 113,722
Inner reserves disclosed, £21,969 .. 135,691
1934.. 26.684.12,500 5 p.c. = 9,077 5,107 140,798
1935.. 27.777.12,500 5 „ „ 9,092 6,185 146,983
1936.. 33.005.12,500 6 „ „ 10,927 9*578 156,561
The co. put a lot of money, principally
borrowed, into premises and equipment
just about the time slump commenced.
The position made finance more difficult
and added to the management’s cares
during the trying years, but now the busi-
ness is shaping robustly again. All the
improvement doesn’t appear in profits
either. The idea is to lay foundations for
the future.
A chain of high-class stores is operated,
one each in Dunedin, Christchurch, Well-
ington and Wanganui. Over the 50 years
to 1934 the ords. averaged p.c. p.a.,
garnished with a one-for-two bonus issue
in 1921. For the six years to the end of
the 1930 term a regular 10 p.c. was paid.
No ord. div. went out in 1932, but there
has been steady recovery since.
Last term gross earnings (£235,727) im-
proved £23,684, after taking stock at
£1125 lower. Net profit (£33,005, allow-
ing for income tax and deprecia-
tion) showed an increase of £5228.
Deducting the prefs.’ 5 p.c. (the rate,
under the National Expenditure Adjust-
ment Act, returns to 6 p.c. in the 1938
term), enough was shown to pay 11.2
p.c. on ord. capital. Shareholders got an
extra 1 p.c., making 6 p.c., and reserves
benefited by nearly as much.
Balance-sheet figures reflect the board’s
excellent work on the financial side: —-
1931. 1934. 1935. 1936.
Pref. capital. . £250,000 £250,000 £250,000 £250,000
Ord. capital.. 179,564 181,829 181,849 182,153
Liabilities* .. 280,271 184,195 165,076 139,942
Premises, plant,
etc. . . 574,167 525,917 509,425 491,348
Stocks . . 185,042 171,004 166,329 165,204
Book debts .. 86,435 70,297 78,685 87,654
Investments and
cash . . 6,241 4,931 4,810 1,626
* Including provision for taxation.
By the retention of surplus disclosed
profit, heavy writing-down of fixed assets
(they have dropped £96,045 in six years),
and conservative valuation of stock, the
liquid position has become much freer.
Since 1930 outside liabilities have been
worked down £145,758, £25,134 of the
movement occurring last term. Finances
are now in comfortable shape, liabili-
ties being well covered by stocks and
debtors.
Outlook for the current year shows
promise of higher profits and divs. Most
primary produce, especially wool, is sell-
ing better than in the previous term,
and trade in Maoriland is on the im-
prove. At 16s. 9d. for the 10s. ords.
the market buys an immediate yield of
3.6 p.c. The prefs. at 245. show 4.2 p.c.
now, rising to 5 p.c. when the statutory
cut' is restored. Net tangible backing is
£2 7s. Id. prefs., 18s. 7d. ords.
Austin Distributors, Ltd. (Melb.)
To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1929.. 15,151 27.5 p.c. = 13,750 1,401 2,816
1930.. 7,917 15 „ „ 7,500 417 3,223
1931.. 125 Nil 125 3,358
1932.. 1,783 3 p.c. = 1,500 283 3,641
1933.. 3,292 5 „ „ 2,500 792 4,433
1934.. 7,536 10 „ „ 5,000 2,536 6,969
1935.. 7,828 10 „ „ 5,000 2,828 9,797
1936. . 10,719 10 „ „ 5,625 5,094 14,891
Activity in this co.’s scrip is at present
lively; paid capital is only £62,500, but
there has been an almost daily turnover
in the shares in Melbourne. Special atten-
tion has been given to the 25,000 10s.-
paids, issued in Nov., 1935. Though it
was the original intention to call up
only 10s. on this issue, investors are buy-
ing the scrip in anticipation of its being
fully called.
The co. was formed 13 years ago to
handle the Austin agency in Victoria.
It has been a successful concern of its
type, paying some handsome divs. prior
to the slump. Its depression record was
creditable, only one year being a dry
one for shareholders.
Revival in the motor trade over the
past four years has been spectacular.
In Victoria registration of new Austin
cars rose from 188 in the year to June
30, 1932, to 352 in 1934, 384 in 1935 and
659 in 1936. The effect on net profits
is shown in the. introductory table. In
the last term gross earnings lifted 44 p.c.;
the net result (£10,719) was £2891 better,
representing 19 p.c. on average capital,
as against 15.7, 15.1 and 6.6 p.c. in the
three preceding years.
The div. was kept at 10 p.c., and
almost as much as was distributed was
sent to reserves (now £14,891). The
interim for 1936-37, declared last month,
was at the rate of 15 p.c. p.a., the in-
crease being labelled “bonus.” Under
whatever designation, extras are appre-
ciated by the sharemarket, and the fully-
paid ords., at 455. in December, sold
last week at 495.; the contribs., 265. 6d.
buyer a month ago, changed hands at
40s. The, yield on the fully-paids would
be slightly over 6 p.c. on a 15 p.c. div.
basis. Net' tangible backing is 245. Bd.
per £1 of paid capital.
The co. does its own financing;
debtors are by far the biggest item
in the balance sheet, and no contingent
liability for bills under discount is men-
tioned :
1934. 1935. 1936.
Paid capital .. .. £50,000 £50,000 £62,500
Liabilities .. .. 12,253* 40,623 36,737
Freeholds, etc. . . .. 2,028 7,086 4,898
Plant, etc 741 1,051 1,468
Stocks 26,259 34,362 31,473
Book debts .. . . 41,683 61,830 79,891
Investments and cash .. 3,511 2,961 2,976
* Includes tax provision.
The extra £12,500 of capital gathered to
the close of last accounts was used, with
surplus earnings, to reduce the debt by
£3886, keep plant in order, and to carry
an additional £18,061 of debtors’ bal-
ances. Losses on hire-purchase con-
tracts during the depression were
negligible.
Fixed assets are small. Freeholds and
leaseholds include the new South Mel-
bourne factory, and off all the co.’s real
estate ample depreciation seems to have
been written. The holding in other
cos. (£2918) includes that in Ausdis Used
Cars Pty. The pup appears to earn a
small profit.
Queensland National Pastoral Co.
, Dividends
Pref. Writ-
Dec., Loss. 7 p.c. Ordinary, ten Off. Deficit.
£ £ £ £
1926.. 205,435 Nil Nil 23,464 213,125
1927.. 27,679 Nil Nil 29,186 269,990
1928.. 79,628 Nil Nil 33,155 382,773
1929.. 47,943 Nil Nil 29,869 460,585
Profit.
1930.. 13,782 Nil Nil 28,716 475,519
Loss.
1931.. 24,566 Nil Nil 24,915 525,000
Capital -written off, £525,000 ..
1932.. 14,839 Nil Nil 14,191 29,030
Profit.
1933.. 15,672 Nil Nil 15,317 28,675
1934.. 12,873 Nil Nil 12,025 27,827
Loss.
1935.. 16,603 Nil Nil 16,610 61,040
Profit.
1936.. 1,316 Nil Nil 10,353 70,077
The runowner in the far west of
Queensland gambles largely with Nature ;
and the odds have been heavily against
this one, whose properties are mostly
“down the Cooper.” The ords. got their
last div. in 1920, and the prefs. (£250,000,
7 p.c. cumulative) have gone without
since 1925. In 1932 £525,000 was slashed
off ord. capital, reducing it to £75,000
in 2s. shares, to cover drought and other
losses.
When the price of wool began to soar
during the post-war boom, sheep offered
a way out, and the co. converted Luck-
now and Cork at a cost of about £BO,OOO.
But the hot sun dried up the water-
courses and left the runs bare for years
on end, and the co. lost 73,780 cattle and
168,538 sheep, despite expenditure of
over £32,000 on agistment and of more
than £36,000 on fodder.
From a seasonal point of view, the
12 months covered by the latest ac-
counts were the best experienced since
1925—with a single exception, the inter-
vening years were one long drought. All
stock did well, and extra cattle, sheep
and wool were sold at better prices. But
the trading profit was more than offset
by an unspecified loss on the sale of
Nukinenda, which was disposed of in
order to reduce the overdraft and help
lighten overhead. After allowing for
this loss, gross earnings were £9860
better than the previous years:
took 1 noq loqc lQQfi
Sales, etc. .. £187,938 £110,826 £84,168 £94,028
Expenses .. 146,073 95,154 100,771 92,712
Depreciation.. 22,413 15,317 16,610 10,353
Exes, were £8059 lower, and £6257 less
was set aside for depreciation, shown as
written off in the introductory table. The
loss on the year’s operations was thus
£24,176 lighter at £9037. That lifted the
deficit on shareholders’ account to
£70,077, leaving only £4923 of the ord.
capital intact.
Chief movements in balance-sheet
figures were on account of the sale and
allowance for depreciation already re-
ferred to:
1925. 1930. 1935. 1936.
Capital . . £650,000 £850,000 £325,000 £325,000
Liabilities . . 135,094 241,390 231,130 180,984
Freeholds .. 68,605 68,774 68,774 28,083
Leaseholds . . 325,524 237,070 154,857 144,423
Plant, etc. . . 85,285 70,780 60,569 60,272
Livestock . . 495,513 231,391 198,648 192,79!)
Wool.. .. 34,490 5,830 10,338 14,390
Debtors, cash, etc. 8,950 2,027 1,904 1,941
The book value of freeholds was re-
duced £40,691, and leaseholds by £10,434,
while £44,146 was worked off the amount
coming to outsiders, including the bank.
When the books closed, more or less
liquids exceeded liabilities by £22,146, an
improvement of £42,386 over the twelve-
month.
As for the current term, the seasonal
outlook and prices are right, and the
chilled-beef trade promises to further
improve. On the market buyers offer
4s. 6d. for the pound prefs.
Hume Steel, Ltd.
, Dividends
Net Pref. Towards
Sept., Profit. 10 p.c. Ord. Reserves. Deficit.
£/ £i £> £>
1926.. 8,870 5201 Nil 3,669 250,455
Added to intangibles, £791 .. 251,246
1927.. 19,183 5567 Nil 13,616 237,630
Part foreign rights sold, patents
reduced, £152,824 .. .. 84,806
1928.. 21,348 5567 Nil 15,781 69,025
Reserved for depreciation,
etc.. £19.400 88,425
1929.. 23,362 5567 Nil 17,795 70,630
1930.. 15,281 5567 Nil 9,714 60,916
1931.. 977 Nil Nil 977 59,939
1932.. 2,535 Nil Nil 2,535 57,404
1933.. 7,787 5567* Nil 2,220 55.184
1934.. 12,682 6124 Nil 6,558 48,626
MM,: 18,40° ,6531 C ' Nil 7 „ 519 42 , 10 7
New share issue exc*., £350 )
1936.. 8,704 7500 Nil 1,204 40,903
*Met by issue of fully-paid B prefs.
Concrete-lined steel pipes from plates
fabricated by B.H.P. are bread-and-
butter to this co. For rights it
handed 250,000 f.-p. £1 ords. to the
parent, Hume Pipe Co. To help finance
the business the public put up £94,433
of pref. money, and a further 5567 pref.
shares were issued in payment of the
1933 div., making total pref. capital
£lOO,OOO, now carrying a fixed cumu-
lative p.c.
Chief source of earnings is public ex-
penditure on water-supply schemes, etc.
Last year turnover improved, but some
of the work was unprofitable because


Fill up at the pump
that supplies
greater mileage . . .
A
*
lus
p&p-
-m
C63/12/SP
\JPI99S BENZOL. (tinted Blue) IS
SOLD AT THE STANDARD GRADE PRICE
SUPER
Plus
ETHYL
COLOURED RED
GIVES MILES
BETTER MOTORING
A SURE FRIEND IN UNC E KTAI N TIM E S
%
m
%
"But Supposing my
INCOME CEASED?"
Many men have what is called a Fear Complex. They are
always in dread of the future. They are afraid to
build a home lest they shall not be able to pay for it.
They are afraid to assure their lives lest they lose their jobs
and be unable to pay the premiums. They are hedged around
with fear.
Membership in the A.M.P. is the verp thing such men need. It
will give them backing. It will give them assurance; security.
A man cannot lose his money if he put it into A.M.P.
policies. It will grow for him in his sleep, and when he works,
even when he is ill. If he find himself unable to continue his
investment of the premium, he can have his policy converted
into a paid-up policy that will continue to grow with bonuses.
A certain man who, at 25, assured himself in the A.M.P.
for £l,OOO, had an accident recently that will prevent him
working again. Though the annual premium payable on his
policy is only £2l/13/4, he can no longer afford to pay it,
so the Society converted his policy into a paid-up policy with
no more premiums to pay. His policy was for £l,OOO. So
considerable had been the bonuses that he now has a paid-up
policy for £1,239, payable at death, plus such additional
bonuses as shall accrue year by year until then, with no more
premiums to pay.
Reader! Let the nearest A.M.P. office send an experi-
enced man along to talk this matter over with you. If you
prefer it, ask that a copy of “Investing in Happiness” be sent
to you.
A.M.P. SOCIETY
The Largest Mutual Life Office in the Empire.
C. A. ELLIOTT, F.1.A., A. W. SNEDDON, F.1.A.,
Actuary. General Manager.
C. M. MARTIN,
Secretary and Chief Inspector.
D. E. WALKER,
Manager for New South Wales.
HEAD OFFICE: 87 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Branch Offices at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth and
Hobart.
District Offices throughout all States.
New Zealand Branch Office: Customhouse Quay, Wellington.
special machines designed for the pur-
pose were “not entirely effective” in the
hands of inexperienced operatives. After
setting aside £8705 for taxation, declared
net earnings were £4696 lighter at £8704,
or £l2OO more than the pref. div. called
for. The ords. have not yet come into
the picture.
To help meet the outlay on new plant
and in connection with orders not ful-
filled before the close of accounts, the
co. went to the parent for an extra
£65,474, making £111,413 in all, and
leant upon other creditors (£45,015) for
a further £20,478:
1925. 1932. 1935. 1936.
Paid capital.. £302,010 £305,670 £350,000 £350,000
Sundry creditors 17,343 106,987 70,476 156,428
Freehold and
leasehold .. 3,975 14,814 15,500 17,521
Plant. . .. 17,680 87,510 102,305 114,326
Stocks .. 7,758 27,508 32,091 50,761
Contracts .. 23,960 20,473 39,064 31,161
Book debts . . 6,433 45,814 37,101 84,844
Cash and de-
posits . . 7,563 9,239 15,817 27,308
Shares in other
c°s- •• 174,528 174,528 174,528
The net growth in assets was freehold,
etc., £2021 ; plant, £12,021 ; stocks,
£18,670; book debts, £47,743 ; cash, etc.,
£11,491. Contracts in progress were
down £7903. The slip in the more or
less liquid surplus (£37,646, excluding
shareholdings) was £15,951.
The co. sold its foreign rights to Steel
Pipe and Lining Co. for £500,000 in f.-p.
ords., and took 20,000 8 p.c. cum. prefs.
for cash. It took the ords. into its own
books at £154,528, reducing the patents
item (now £100,900, not treated as an
asset herein) by £152,824 net. Subsi-
diaries have acquired the rights for S.
Africa, India and part of the U.S.A.
Those for Japan were sold on a royalty
basis, and Hume Pipe (Far East) holds
those covering the rest of southern Asia.
There is nothing to indicate that these
rights are likely to turn in much, if any-
thing, for Hume Steel.
Prospects for the current term are
bright enough. Orders in hand now total
£400,000, and more are expected.
The market sums up the risks by pay-
ing 20s. 6d. for the pound prefs., at
which figure the return is 7.3 p.c. The
net tangible cover is 61s. 10d., mainly
in plant, worth what it can earn.
Tongkah Compound, N.L.
One of the early Malayan tin ven-
tures, this show kicked off at Puket,
Siam, in 1911. Operations were trans-
ferred to a Mantin-Setul (F.M.S.) prop-
erty in 1920. As the original ground was
worked out, the two dredges were set
to work on contiguous areas. At Sept.
30, apart from 120 acres of tailings at
the Setul end, there was 250 acres still
to be worked, containing approximately
13,200,000 c.y., averaging .751 b. t.o. The
table summarises recent results:
, Dividends ,
Working Per
Sept., Revenue. Exes. Profit. Share. Amount.
1932.. £30,089 £17,831 £12,258 -/6 £6,213
1933.. 33,677 13,739 19,938 1/- 12,426
1934.. 56,382 19,529 36,853 2/- 24,854
1935.. 66,150 28,114 38,036 3/- 37,280
1936.. 60,223 25,241 34,982 3/- 37,280
The slip of £3054 in last year’s work-
ing profit was due to the lower average
price of tin and the slightly poorer
ground dug. As in the previous term
three Is. divs., requiring £37,280, were
disbursed, and a fourth of like amount
has gone out since the close of accounts.
Exes, exclude £5185 net loss on sale of
the Setul dredge, which has worked out
that end of the property, to a subsidiary,
Tongkah Compound No. 2, for £35,000
(£5OOO down and the balance in six equal
annual instalments). Finances show a
surplus of liquids over liabilities (£962)
of £58,398 (4.75. a share), apart from
the outstanding consideration on sale of
dredge.
Before closing down in April the Setul
machine dug 806,000 c.y. for 254 tons
t. 0., an average of .71b.; setting in in
Feb., the Mantin unit turned over
971,000 c.y. for 149 tons t. 0., the average
being .341 b. per yard. Dredging per-
formances and other things show out in
the following table:
1934. 1935. 1936.
Cubic yards .. 1,595,870 1,629,000 1,777,000
Tin oxide, tons 349 425;4 403.4
Av. per yd., lb. .49 .58 .5
Cost per c.y... 2.9 d. 4.1 d. 3.1 d.
Average price
metallic tin.. £230 £225/14/4 £206/6/
While the Mantin property, excluding
land outside the selected area, has only
about eight years’ life ahead of it, the
co. has four other shows in its stable—
Tongkah Compound Nos. 2,3, 4 and
5, all in Siam, in which it holds share-
interests to a face value of £79,840.
No. 2 looks like making an early con-
tribution to the pool, and, as the per-
missible production for Siam has been
lifted from 10,000 to 18,500 tons p.a.,
Nos. 3, 4 and 5 may soon be allotted
a quota, in which case the three will
probably be brought to production.
Though the parent now has only one
dredge operating, provided it can be
kept working at anything like full time
satisfactory divs. should be maintained
for the present. The lift in the co.’s
quota and the rise in the price of the
metal are bright spots in the outlook,
but the present London quote of around
£250 may not be averaged over a period
of years.
Mount Kasi, Vanua Levu, Fiji, crushed
2359 tons for 3650 z. during the month
to Feb. 25. Recoveries averaged under
3.2dwt. Shareholders don’t regard the
results as truly indicative of the mine,
and wouldn’t accept the ss. 6d. offered
for the 35.-paids last week. “Proved”
ore reserves were once “very conser-
vatively estimated” at 120,000 tons going
lldwt. If most of those prospective
’weights started coming through the
plant the market for the scrip would
have a different look. But they are a
long while coming.
* * * *
Heavy rains in February hampered in-
stallation of the new plant on the Em-
peror’s property, Tavua, Fiji, but good
progress is reported. Chas. Ruwolt Pty.
are consulting engineers, and ball-mills
are to be shipped from Melbourne this
week. Most work recently has been
done in making excavations and laying
foundations for the plant. Large-scale
milling is expected, in September.
* * * *
B.H. Prop, is the latest to look at New
Pyrenees’s Avoca (Vic.) property. Here
previous boring has indicated 25,000,000
c.y. of 3gr. ground, recoverable value
(lid.), of a dredging depth of 60ft.,
but for various reasons the area was suc-
cessively turned down by Placer De-
velopment, Anglo-Oriental Mining Corp.,
Aust. Gold Development and Burma-
Malay Tin. A. H. Miles, of A.-0., sug-
gested that a local co. might make big
profit's. The Prop, will check-bore the
area at its own expense, and if values
are up to the mark there is mention of
a £150,000 operating co. being formed.
As purchase consideration, New Pyrenees
is asking £15,000, to be applied in taking,
up contributing shares in any float, while
its shareholders individually may apply
for 10 p.c. of the nominal capital
of such a co. Dredging for the
yellow metal is becoming an increas-
ingly important part of B.H.P. activity,
and the present proposition can be relied
on not to fail through lack of the best
technical and other resources. Apart
from its Wellington Alluvials (Macquarie
River, N.S.W.) holdings, the co. is in-
terested in another alluvial area at
Burrendong and a refining show at
Cowra Creek (N.S.W.).
* * *
Lancefield (W.A.) hopes to chip some-
thing substantial off future mining costs.
Co. proposes to put in a permament ore-
chute at the bottom of its incline shaft,
from which skips will haul to the sur-
face. The chute will be filled with ore
from a conveyor belt running down a
long tunnel with an incline of 19 degrees,
(Continued on next page.)


If you have ores for sale write: —
NORMAN HILL & CO., LTD.,
Cathcart House, Sydney.
Buyers: Gold ores and concentrates, Silver Lead
ores, Molybdenite, Scheelite, Wolfram, Tin ores,
etc., etc.
The Union Bank of Australia, Limited.
BALANCE SHEET, AUGUST 31, 1936.
LIABILITIES.
Capital authorised ~£12,000,000
Capital issued .. £12,000,000
Less: Reserve lia-
bility thereon .. 8,000,000
Paid up .. £4,000,000 0 0
Reserve fund .. 3,250,000 0 0
Currency reserve 1,600,000 0 0
Balance of un-
divided profits 266,863 17 2
£9,116,863 17 2
Circulation .. £7,567 0 0
Deposits .. 34,410,689 10 10
Bills payable
and other
liabilities . . 1,197,913 2 S
-£35,616,169 13 6
£44,733,033 10 8
ASSETS.
Specie on hand and cash balances
Bullion and advances on bullion..
Money at call and short notice
in London
Commonwealth Treasury bills ..
Investments —
British Government, Common-
wealth of Australia Govern-
ment and New Zealand
municipal securities ..
Balance of remittances and drafts
in transit, and bills receivable
at London office
£4,845,205
91,370
340,000
1,515,000
3,111,585
2,333,953
9 2
7 9
0 0
0 0
17 5
5 11
£12,237,115 0 3
Bills discounted, loans and other
securities at the branches and
in London (after making pro-
vision for bad and doubtful
debts and contingencies) . . 32,129,340 17 8
Bank premises in Australia and
New Zealand at cost, less
amounts written off .. .. 286,600 0 0
London leasehold
premises at cost £142,304 19 4
L ess: Reserves
against same
and accrued
interest .. 62,327 6 7
79,977 12 9
London, January 5, 1937.
£44,733,033 10 S
STATEMENT OF PROFITS.
Balance of undivided profits on August 31, 1935 .. .• .. ..£226,015 16 10
Less: Dividend, January, 1936 .. .. .. .. .. • • .. 100,000 0 0
Leaving a balance of .. .. .. .. .. .. •• •• £126,015 16 10
Profits of the past year, after making provision in respect
of bad and doubtful debts and other contingencies. . £1,101,128 15 11
Aug., 1935. Less:
£487,294 Salaries and allowances to the Australian
and New Zealand staff . . . . .. £502,919 5 2
117,305 General expenses in Australia and New
Zealand —including rent, rates,
stationery, etc. .. . . .. .. 123,082 15 10
9,000 Directors’ fees .. .. £9OOO 0 0
2,455 Income tax paid thereon. . 2688 7 6
11,688 7 5
48,096 Salaries of London office staff, audit fee,
rent, rates, stationery and general
expenses .. .. .. .. .. 48,605 13 11
155,483 United Kingdom, Australian and New
Zealand taxes .. .. .. .. 173,984 13 3
’ 860,280 15 7
£819,633 240,848 0 4
£366,863 17 2
Less: Interim dividend, July, 1936 .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 100,000 0 0
Balance- of undivided profits at this date .. .. .. •• £266,863 17 2
HUGH FLOWER, M. N. HOGG, ROBT. C. NESBITT, Directors.
F. 11. McINTYRE, Manager. S. F. GARDNER, Accountant.
AUDITORS’ REPORT.
In accordance with the provisions of Section 134 of the Companies Act, 1929,
we report to the Members as follows:—*
We have examined the above Balance Sheet with the books at Head Office
and have had access to the Branch Accounts transmitted to the Head Office from
Australia and New Zealand. We have verified the correctness of the Cash, Money
at Call and Short Notice, Investments, and the Bills of Exchange held in London,
and having obtained all the information and explanations we have required, we are
of opinion that such Balance Sheet is properly drawn up so as to exhibit a true
and correct view of the state of the Company’s affairs according to the best of our
information and the explanations given to us and as shown by the books of the
Company and the said Branch Accounts.
London, January 5, 193 7. WHINNEY, SMITH & WHINNEY, Auditors
AUSTRALASIAN ESTABLISHMENT.
General Manager for Australasia A. W. McNICOL
HEAD OFFICE IN AUSTRALIA: MELBOURNE.
Manager at Melbourne F. C. BISHOP
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1572.
Head Office: Ocean House, 32 Martin Place, Sydney
Invested Funds exceed £500,000.
All classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
VICTORIAN BRANCH: Temple Court, 422-24 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH: Primary Building, Creek & Adelaide Sts., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. G. BROWN, General Manager.
BILLABONG
WINDMILLS
The Basis of
Sound Pumping Equipment
Built on scientific principles in the largest and best
equipped WINDMILL FACTORY IN AUSTRALIA
—BILLABONG stands supreme as Australia's Best
and most reliable Mill.
Auto Oiled
m
Encased Gears
• THE IMPROVED BILLABONG HAS MANY
• SUPERIOR CONSTRUCTIONAL FEATURES.
• GEARS CONTINUALLY RUNNING IN A BATH
• OF OIL—SCIENTIFICALLY DESIGNED WHEEL,
• SENSITIVE TO THE SLIGHTEST BREEZE,
• READY TO WITHSTAND THE SEVEREST GALE.
Billabong Will Ultimately Be Your Choice
Make your enquiries now.
Write for our illustrated Windmill or Pump
Catalogue
I— i t—'
IKSk
D&9
n 9
391, 403 BOURKE ST., MELBOURNE
324, 330 PITT ST., SYDNEY
Makers of Pumping Equipment for over 70 years
not 24 degrees as stated in Melbourne.
For some years George Ridgway, man-
aging director, has contemplated putting
in this tunnel to contend with the acute
northerly pitch of the shoot. The first
section will be 1000 ft. in length, and
will be directed to strike below the bot-
tom of the No. 5 borehole—which
stabbed the lode at 900 ft. vertical below
the present deepest workings and which
disclosed good values. While in England
recently Ridgway saw at Sheffield a belt-
conveyor used in bringing the broken coal
up an incline tunnel and giving entire
satisfaction.
* Sfc * Hs
“0.8.,” Perth, sends along some high-
and low-grade concentrates;
The Comet (Marble Bar) continues to bulge
in intrinsic value, and although at present it is
the shallowest of the De Bernales Westralian
group, it is now reckoned to rival Yellowdine
as the best. Its advent as a rich and regular
producer is officially stated to be nigh.
A diamond drill operating from the No. 5
level of the Gladiator, another of the De
Bernales shows, recently struck high values over
a width of sft. Gladiator, when known as the
Augusta years ago, produced a fair quantity
of gold.
Pomme d’Or, with shareholders’ consent, has
given an option over its property to Coolgardie
Brilliant. Pomme d’Or was once tipped as an
early dividend-payer, but it was just a tip.
New Golconda, operating at Lake Austin,
recently won 320 z. from the milling of 280
tons. Returns from residues are yet to come.
Co. is using a stamp-battery leased from Lake
Austin, N.L., its next-door neighbor. Five-
head are running, but an additional five-head
will be started shortly.
* * * *
North Boulder, N.L., formed in Mel-
bourne two years ago to operate the old
North Boulder and Bank of England at
Kalgoorlie, spent £11,997 to get £9257
worth of bullion last year, and at the
date of the balance sheet (Nov. 30) had
£2019 in hand. The manager reports
that prospects have recently brightened
and are good for the current year.
* * * *
On Golden Mile Block 45 the dis-
covery of new lodes is mentioned, and
cheerful yarns concerning the future are
being heard. The news behind the news
suggests that the mine isn’t good enough
for a co.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
E.C.K.: Take advantage of any rise and sell.
W.V.: One of the best forestry cos. For
latest, see B. 3/3/’37, p. 26. No regular market
for shares... .G.M.: Sorry information was
late; div. declared the other day. Though the
yield is good, one expects a high yield from
gravel c 05..,. .L.H.S.: It is a good mine, as
goldmines go. You may see your price again
on the market—l2s. Bd. seems warranted on
prospects. You must make your own decision
about further investment... .C.D.: Suggest you
hold another six months, though there is a
speculative element about the show... .M.K.:
Rhodesia’s a bit off our beat, but the present
London quote is about SS. sterling. Suggest
you get in touch with O. F. J. Wolff, share-
broker, 107 Pitt-street, Sydney, who will sell
for you or get other information. Good luck!
S.FL: City Stock Exchanges, as a rule,
are not open td the public, and only on special
occasions would an outsider be allowed in the
callrooms. Last sale of a seat on Sydney
’Change cost £5OOO, Melbourne less than half
that. Substantial guarantees are also required.
E.A.: Position of Guinea Airways should
have improved after merger with Holdens.
Position is difficult to gauge, but prospects look
reasonable at present price. Referendum results
shouldn’t affect... .C. 8.5.: Leave the shares
alone Spero: Don’t buy any more of either.
Prospects doubtful....F.W.: Suggest you hold
Adelaide Steam; sell the other if you like, but
don’t like Consols at present rates R.G.P.:
(1.) No regular market, and probably at a heavy
discount. (2) Don’t think it worth while, but if
it is decided to continue payments should be
made by all beneficiaries in proportion to con-
tracts bequeathed. (3) Not as between bene-
ficiaries, but co. may sue against estate...,
Bondholder: Have nothing to do with co
T.A.N.IW. V. J. Higgs, 99 Queen-street, Mel-
bourne; price 11s D.C.R.: “Eastern Tin
Dredging Cos.” —W. K. Garnsey, 117 Pitt-
street, Sydney... .AJ.: Not a public co.; write
secretary, The George-street, Concord, N.S.W.
G.G. and A.G.S.: All sound offices
Anon : (1) Commonwealth figures not available;
N.S.W. estimate, 53,000,000 tons. (2) Ore
quarried in Australia, 1935, 1,874,418 tons.
J.T.W.: Company finally wound up Jan.,
1936; C. V. Witt, Kembla Building, Margaret-
street, Sydney, liquidator... .D.R.W.: Reviewed
p. 22 H.H.V.: A long-term gamble. Im-
mediate outlook not bright... .Toowoomba: A
speculation. First year’s balance sheet not
issued, so financial position not known. See
“ ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly” for Feb., Brisbane office.
Nor’-wester: The W.A. Government has
granted a mining license to Brassert and Co.,
of London. Under arrangement between that
co. and the Nippon Mining Co., Japan, the
latter will advance £300,000 by way of loan to
an Australian operating co., as yet unformed.
... .P.S.C.: Broken Hill Prop, as an investment
lias been frequently noticed in the “Business,
Robbery, Etc.” pages. Its main sources of
revenue are its steelworks, though mining at
the Barrier is now a contributor. Can't advise
about taking up syndicate shares. The co.’s
boring results would at present be kept for its
information only.
PATENTS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.—Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON. Patent Attorneys, 483
Collins Street. Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
* * * *
AUSTRALASIAN timberlands and plantation
valuation surveys, milling plans, certification of
shipments. L MACINTOSH ELLIS, B.Sc. (late
Director State Forest Service, New Zealand), Consult-
ing Forest Engineer, 8 Bond Street, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
STAYBRITE STAINLESS STEEL is modernising
Australia! For full information about this rustless,
untarnishable steel, write to the firm who are best
able to advise you—William Adams & Company,
Limited, 175 Clarence Street, Sydney.— Advt.


HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney
i
m
■
m
saw : i§ i
!s;«n hi
■
fill
fill
- •
111
Jl
Modern high-class accommodation
at a moderate tariff. Hot and cold
water in all rooms. Rooms with
and without private Bathrooms
and Telephones available. Meals
at moderate rates unexcelled
cuisine Dining Rooms, Grill
Room, Banquet Room and Winter-
garden, together with a first-class
orchestra.
Rooms only from 6/6 per night.
Telegrams, Cables and, Wireless:
“METROPOLE,” Sydney.
Telephones: 8W2061 (9 lines)
86363 (4 lines)
SMOKE-OH!
“Women’s sense of
humor is crude,” says a
writer.
Which explains why
they love to see a
wedding.
“b 'I- -I- »I«
“They were rallied by
their officers—but were
beaten to the blasted
trenches.”
—Sydney “D.T.”
They’ve been called
worse.
“Theatre lights failed for a few moments
during the presentation of this mystery thriller.”
Probably the one time the audience
were in the dark.
•£• -b »!-
“The modern woman weighs her words well
before she speaks,” says a feminist.
And she never gives short weight.
•i’
“When Eliza was charged at the Central
Court with riotous behavior the magistrate said
she had been warned many times. He intended
to inflict a fine.”— “D.T.”
So many times had she been warned,
But still became no wiser;
The beak, whose counsel she had scorned,
Set out to fine-Eliza.
H. M.
Bellow-drama.
“ ‘The Milky Way’ is a play produced by the
Milk Board for propaganda purposes.”
—News item.
We became all churned up about writ-
ing a play for the Milk Board. We
thought that “Green Pastures” would be
a wonderful title, but', to avoid being
bailed up by the censor, we’ve compro-
mised with “ ’Twas Butter Dream.”
Betsy, the heroine, is a beautiful heifer,
sometimes known as “The Jersey Lily,”
with a peaches-and-cream complexion.
Dave, the hero, is a bonzer bloke, so
overflowing with the milk of human
kindness that the board has threatened
to cancel his registration if he doesn’t
limit his output.
When Curds, the villain —a nasty cow
—sneeringly tells Betsy that Dave’s love
is only calf love, she comes back at him
with, “Why not? All the boys rave
about my calves.” (Whoa! We nearly
forgot the censor!) Curds gets nasty,
but Dave, who has had secret informa-
tion from Sydney that the price of milk
is going to be fixed at a shilling per
quart to celebrate quadruplication of the
Milk Board staff, snaps his fingers at
Curds.
In Act II Curds turns very sour and
things become a bit thick. The night
before the wedding he creeps into Dave’s
paddocks and turns the herd into a clover
patch, where they become blown, swell
up like balloons and float away into the
clouds. As the last cow floats off he
utters a bah! sinister.
Act 111 is very spectacular. A passing
airman, attracted by the mooing of
Dave s cows in the clouds, performs
some remarkable aerial gymnastics and
restores the herd to Dave, who is sadly
mooring his bovine balloons to the
fence, when the happy climax comes
with a rush. Mr. Parkhill snaps up all
Dave s cows at a staggering price and
forms a mounted air force. Dave and
Betsy become social butterflies and mix
with the cream of society. Curds kicks
the bucket, a natural end for a Milk
Board villain.
[Curtain.]
D. McM.
ê
ë
“Come, come, nouw; what have you done with that other gun?”
round, criminals go straight and sober,
businessmen go off at a tangent; it
makes maidens angle and arms describe
an arc (with a waist as the centre of
the radius), and gives us the three sides
of the triangle.
Jay.
4 1 +
“Notorious counterfeiter becomes jazz-band
pianist.”— Cable.
So he’s still making bad notes.
Horror-scope.
“Mar. 3. Quarrelsome around 2-3 p.m.
Luckiest hour 5.30 p.m. Better in every way
from teatime onward.” —Birthday guide.
This piece of information interests me
particularly because it concerns the anni-
versary of my wife’s birth and because
the facts as stated are entirely wrong.
We don’t quarrel around 2-3 p.m.—the
row starts about 7 a.m., as I invariably
forget to wish her many happy returns
and fail to give her a gift.
Each year, after she has bewailed my
negligence, she says: “You don’t love
me any more.” I protest: “But, darling,
Ido.” She repeats: “You don’t.” Isay:
“I do,” and so on, until I lead with a
straight left to prove it. She blubberingly
vows she’ll go home to mother (but never
does), while I get my own breakfast and
go to work.
She prepares the evening scran at 5.30
p.m. (canned beef and potato crisps), but
sulks throughout the meal. Things be-
come gradually worse from teatime on-
ward, and by 9 p.m. I’m feeling like
Nero, Henry VIII. and Bluebeard rolled
into one. Ultimately we go to bed—l
share the divan with the cat —and next
morning I hear her sobbing as I leave the
house. That night 1 present her with a
diamond bracelet, she kises me sweetly,
croons “I knew you’d remember,” and
everything’s sweet for another year.
P. C.
What Are the Police For?
Saturday. —lt’s a pity the police
haven’t something better to do than
harass well-conducted social clubs
where people can meet one another and
have a quiet game in comfortable sur-
roundings. What if a little money is
won and lost? The people who lose
have the money to spare and like a little
pleasurable excitement —it’s entirely their
own business. Anyway, I’m going along
to-night; I’m a pretty good card-player,
and with some of the mugs who think
they can play
Sunday. —Why don’t the police get
busy and close down these places? Just
because their patrons are in boiled shirts
they are immune, while the police go for
the poor two-up players and the Chows.
They’re only gambling hells —that’s all
they are! Kept by a lot of crooks who
are battening on
Hamer.
“I was cut out for a bachelor,” declares a
writer.
Ah! by whom?
The Wine Is Vapid.
When you were only seventeen
And I was twenty-one,
Our lives were rosy and serene
And made of happy fun.
We laughed and loved and danced and
dreamed,
And walked, my sweet, on air;
With madcap Mirth we gaily schemed
The rout of Gloom and Care.
But Time, alas ! has changed all that —
Enjoyment’s turned to rue,
And life seems hopeless, dull and flat
Now I am twenty-two!
P.O.M.C.
Adjourned Sine Die.
ĕ
PERCY.
Broken Melody.
Where breakers break upon the shore
He broke the news about his love —
A passion he could brake no more.
She gave a break to him above
The rest —a broker rich, a bloke
Who satisfied her every whim,
Until, for her sake, he went broke;
And then, of course, she broke with
him.
P.P.
Some Little-known Facts About
Scotland.
I. —General Knowledge.
Scotland is a small recruiting area for
English and Dominions Prime Ministers
and Premiers, divided from England by
the Cheviot Hills, the Tweed and the
tam-o’-shanter. It comprises a lot of
lochs, glens, firths, forths, tarns, straths,
burns and haughs. The early Scots thus
named them because, being uneducated,
they didn’t know the English names.
These haughs, burns, etc., are in turn
divided into highlands, lowlands, up-
lands, downlands and sidelands, all of
which are connected by high roads and
low roads.
It has often been questioned why the
Scots built both high and low roads, in
view of their thriftiness and the well-
known fact that anyone taking the low
road will reach his destination before
the high-road user. Age-old jealousy be-
tween Highlander and Lowlander was
the cause of this duplication.
It started when Hamish McZonker,
who was looked upon as a bit of a laird
in his Lowland village of Awhuskiemon,
founded the Free Kirk. The contention
of the stern, nonagenarian elder, Mc-
Whangus McTartan, that only God-fear-
ing Highlanders could hope to be ad-
mitted to hell aroused Hamish’s anger
and brought his hot retort that everyone
could go to hell. When he started the
Free Kirk in opposition to McWhangus,
practically every Scot rallied to his cause,
until they discovered that the plate cir-
culated just the same, the “free” part
of it being confined to theological belief.
The subsequent strife put Highlander
and Lowlander in different camps. When
one adopted a sporran made of white
horsehair the other favored one made
with black stoat feathers; when the
Highlanders took whisky with their
burgoo the Lowlanders retaliated by
taking burgoo with their whisky. Simi-
larly, they refused to play the same kind
of bagpipes. The Highlanders evolved
an instrument the blowing of which
could be performed only by their biggest
and boniest-kneed player, and even then
it cost him four front teeth and a float-
ing liver to produce “Cock o’ the North.”
But this triumph was short-lived. A
Lowlander, Jamie McUsquebaugh, by
adding another five cubic feet of con-
centrated howl to the bag and punching
several more holes in the pipe, pro-
duced a super-bagpipe. Then, after pull-
ing all his own teeth out to allow more
suction, and submerging for long
stretches in Loch Lomond to improve
his breathing, he burst into a Seann
Truibheas, or words to that effect, which
resulted in the complete destruction of all
bird, animal and vegetable life within a
given area. This musical feat was im-
mortalised by the great bard Rabbie
Mcßammie in the beautiful lines com-
mencing : —•
An’ snow kit whyles smyriie a droukit
lousie,
Maun blastit howkin’ gang a bluidy
towzie.
Scotland’s chief industries are mist-
and- rain - dodging, heather - admiring,
haggis-sawing and pibroch-skirling.
The haggis is a mixture of lights,
whisky, thistles, parritch, whisky, liver,
plaster of Paris and more whisky, basted
and boiled in a sheep’s stomach. The
humiliating knowledge of the use to
which its innards will be put after death
is responsible for the dumb look of pain
to be noted on the faces of Scottish
sheep. Haggises are made in great quan-
tities for the New Year’s Day celebra-
tions, when they are so soft that they
can be taken through a straw. They
harden with age, until, when the supply
is petering out in December, they are
served with a cold chisel and a hacksaw.
Fishing is the national pastime, though
neither bait nor lines are used. When
a school of fish is located in a burn the
fisherman just takes his bagpipe, or even
a set of bagpipes, below water and plays
it or them. The fish dash their brains
out against the rocky bank, and can be
collected at will. Actually, this is a
most hazardous sport, as to get below
the surface the angler has to tie a big
rock to his feet to offset the upward pull
of the inflated pipes.
The belief that Scotsmen cannot see
a joke is erroneous. Their greatest
comedian can see one so quickly that he
is already laughing heartily at his own
before the audience has heard it.
S.W.K.


Invest Soundly In
These 20
“Listed” Companies
ifOS- secobitv
Commercial Bank of Aust., Ltd.
The Adelaide S.S. Co., Ltd.
Tooth & Co.; Ltd.
Associated Newspapers, Ltd.
A’sian Paper and Pulp Co., Ltd.
Australian Glass Mftrs. Co., lAd.
Broken Hill Proprietary Co., Ltd.
Colonial Sugar Refining Co., Ltd.
David Jones, Ltd;
Drug Houses' of Australia, Ltd.
Dunlop Perdriau Rubber Co., Ltd.
Electro. Zinc Co. of A/sia, Ltd.
General Industries, Ltd.
Goldsbrough, Mort & Co., Ltd.
Henry Jones Co-operative, Ltd.
Kandos Cement Co., Ltd.
Sargents, Ltd.
W-. R. Carpenter & Co., Ltd.
Yarra Rails, Ltd.
Broken Hill South,, Ltd.
It will pay every investor to
study the many marked
advantages of investing in the
way made possible by FIRST
AUSTRALIAN UNIT
TRUST CERTIFICATES.
These enable you to apply the
SAFETY-FIRST principle of
wide diversification to your
investment —be it as little as
approx. £2s—by spreading
it over 20 of Australia’s
strongest and soundest Com-
panies, all listed on ’Change.
The investment, moreover, is
a 1 ways safeguarded by
UNION INSURANCE
SOCIETY OF CANTON,
LTD. (Union Building, Bond
Street, Sydney), as Custodian
Trustees, and it is realisable at
any time.
Remember— ONE Certificate, ONE Transaction
covers 20 Companies .
DIRECTORS:
Victor G. Watson, Esq. (Chairman), formerly Manager, The Trustees, Executors
and Agency Co., Ltd., Melbourne; Norman L. Cowper. Esq., Solicitor; Messrs.
Allen, Allen and Hemsley, Sydney; John A. L. Gunn, Esq., F.C.A. (Aust.),
Chartered Accountant (Aust.) ; Palmer Kent, Esq., Retired Chief Inspector,
The Bank of Australasia.
For full details and descriptive Booklet No. 1 apply to the
Managers of the Trust;
AUSTRALIAN FIXED TRUSTS PTY., LTD.,
8-14 BOND STREET, SYDNEY.
TELEPHONE: 85294.
BOX 4028, V.V., 0.P.0.
SUCCESS
SUCCESS
While you are young enough
to enjoy it.
You can leap ahead to Success and enjoy it, and enjoy
the pleasures which it ’ brings, while you are young
enough to enjoy the fruits —or you can plod along
your highway, tired, weary, and even if Success
does reach you in declining years, you won’t be
able fully to appreciate it.
There is one way—and one way only—to achieve
Success in early life, and that is to train for it.
Pit yourself for the position you want—give yourself
the knowledge that is worth money to any employer
and you will have ample choice of positions.
H. & R. Personal-Individual Tuition covers
Accountancy,
Secretarial Practice,
Cost Accountancy,
Complete Bookkeeping,
Farm and Station Bookkeeping,
Bankers’ Institute,
Practical Banking,
Securities,
ABC of Business,
Modern -Business and
Mail Order Correspondence,
Personal Development,
Fffective English and
Personal Efficiency,
Lady Secretary’s Course,
General Business Subjects.
They fit you for early Success and Lifelong Employ-
ment. ,
You may be one of those who think that opportunity
has passed by; you may only be seeking your first
start in life; whether you are 16 or 40 years or
older we wry now that you are only TO-DAY on
the THRESHOLD of SUCCESS.
If you wish to be in a far better position within 12
months —if you want to take advantage of the new
progress and developments taking place in business,
call in and see us and discuss the future with us
free and without obligation. Request the coupon
for your copy of the free 1937 Handbook “Guide
to Business Careers.”
Our tfith Year
Personal-Individual Tuition.
Open until S p.m. Fridays.
Service Consultants all Main Country Centres.
Department of Business Training.
HEMINGWAY & ROBERTSON,
HEMINGWAY & ROBERTSON,
The. Specialist Coaches in Business,
38 Barrack House, 1C Barrack St., Sydney,
N.S.W.
38 Bank House, Bank Place, Melbourne, C.l.
POST TO-DAY.
To Hemingway & Robertson,
I am interested in Business. Please send me free
copy of 1937 Edition “Guide to Business Careers.
Name
Address
Subject Interested in
38/228.
Business, Rollery, Etc.
Emperor’s Costs
A member of a Big City Stock Ex-
change has written (“private and confi-
dential,” so his name is not published)
to The Bulletin:
We have a few clients interested in Emperor
Mines, Ltd. May we assume that your para-
graphs dated February 3, 10 and 17 are entirely
unbiased ? We do not speculate in stocks and
shares ourselves, preferring the ability to express
an entirely unbiased opinion.
Naturally it is perturbing for us as advisers
to find the co. attacked as it has been. It seems
to us that the comparisons are very unfair.
We have looked up costs of mining only for the
Mt. Lyell Co., and find that last year it was in
the vicinity of Bs. per ton, comparing with 1935
about 11s. 6d. and 1934 about 13s. The
Emperor expects to mine 720,000 tons of ore at
a cost of 4s. This comparison seems to be
fair, because both mines are worked by open-
cut. Possibly the fact that Emperor’s figure is
4s. as against Mt. Lyell’s Bs. is due to native
labor and longer hours as against Australian
labor and conditions.
Taking the Emperor mine costs at 45., a
balance of 13s. 6d. is left for treatment. We
find that Wiluna treatment costs are about
6s. 6d., whilst realisation and general expenses
are equal to about 7d. more. The latter figures
are in sterling, but the Emperor’s 13s. in Aus-
tralian currency seems to be reasonable on this
basis. Comparisons with the deep-working
Rand mines seem to indicate something in favor
of the Emperor rather than against it. It is
obviously more costly to raise ore from 3000 ft.
to 6000 ft. than it is to opencut it, and whilst
ive have no figures before us to prove what
tve say, it does not seem commonsense to com-
pare such a mine with opencut propositions.
We would be glad if you would give us
the reasons for the articles in question.
Perhaps a person who expects to be
given information “for his clients” after
questioning whether this paper’s opinion
is unbiased is an optimist and an
anomaly. However, optimism is good
for the Stock Exchanges. His ques-
tions are answered for the benefit of his
clients and his own “assumptions.”
At the time of the first article (B.
3/2/’37) the market value of Emperor
shares was over 21s. —somewhere near
the estimated profit in sight—and still
rising. For a mine no more than in the
experimental production stage that
seemed flattering, especially when the
large share issue, four-fifths of it
vendors’ consideration, was considered.
The favorable aspects of Emperor had
been given publicity in the press. The
uncertain side deserved publicity also,
especially as goldmines often lure the
unfinancial and impressionable into in-
discreet investment.
Mt. Lyell, the inquirer notes, mines at
Bs. (actually Bs. lOd.) a ton ; Emperor,
he also notes, expects to mine at 4s. The
Bulletin wouldn’t be prepared to pay
even half-price for expected mining
results. Emperor’s anticipated costs may
be assisted towards achievement by
native labor, but “cheap” labor is some-
times expensive.
It is “probable” that the Emperor
mine will be worked by opencut, and on
this basis total costs —including mining,
milling and development—have been
estimated by Mr. E. G. Theodore at
17s. 6d. (Aust.) per ton on 150,000 tons
p.a. throughput. Mt. Morgan (Q.) is
worked by opencut, and on a throughput
of 260,000 tons p.a., including over-
burden, actual mining costs are ss.
10.93 d. a ton, and all-in costs 225., as
against Emperor’s estimate of 17s. 6d.
Wiluna’s working costs were 21s. 2d. a
ton for December. Every mining propo-
sition has its own peculiarities, and
Emperor may be a world-beater on the
point of costs ; but its ore is “highly
moist,” and other difficulties may arise.
Mt. Lyell’s all-in costs (excluding taxa-
tion and interest) on a throughput of
670,000 tons last year averaged 18s. lOd.
pier ton of ore. It is a copper show,
with gold a sideline. The correspondent’s
. statement that 13s. 6d. is allowed by
Emperor directors for treatment is defi-
nitely wrong. This sum has to cover
milling (treatment), development and
overhead.
There can be no exact comparison
of the costs of one mine with another,
but on the Rand haulage would not cost
more than a couple of shillings a ton,
which should be more than offset by the
enormous tonnage and scale of treat-
ment. What some large mines lose on
the score of mining costs they more
than make up on the point of treat-
ment ; it stands to reason that, with plant
costing, say, £1,000,000, economies in
treatment can be achieved that are not
likely from a £200,000 plant.
Experts have attributed the low Rand
costs (actually an average of 18s. lid.
sterling a ton) to:
(a) Adaptability of cyanide process to
Witwatersrand ores;
(b) Uniformity and character of gold-
bearing deposit;
(c) Availability of unskilled colored
labor;
(d) Proximity of coal deposits;
(e) Absence of heavy pumping charges;
(f) Good water-supply and low electric-
power costs;
(g) Excellent technical management.
Emperor may have some of these
advantages, but it will not have all of
them.
Almost every goldmine floated in
Australia has been overvalued by specu-
lators during the development stage and
has been a disappointment as a producer.
High authorities ridiculed The Bulle-
tin’s doubts about Lady Shenton’s ore
values, and said the plant was entirely
to blame. Developments have clearly
indicated who was right. Wiluna, Mt.
Morgan, Lancefield, Triton and other
well-known dividend-paying shows have
shown heavy market depreciation as pro-
ducers.
Prospects of goldmines in the develop-
ment stage are a matter of opinion. The
Emperor’s prospects are a matter of
opinion. It is hoped for investors’ sakes
that the promoters’ anticipations are fully
realised. If they are, it will be a feather
in the cap of managing-director E. G.
Theodore, because he will have done
excellent supervision on the mining and
treatment side. This paper’s aim has
been to make speculators pause and con-
sider Emperor’s anticipated costs in re-
lation to high and low costs actually
achieved by other goldmines in Aus-
tralia and .elsewhere. Many punters
forget about costs altogether. It is fatal
to think only of profits.
During the first 36 weeks of its. current
year Broken Hill Prop, has turned out
494,918 tons of ingot steel, an increase
of 64,713 tons over the same period of
the preceding financial term, and repre-
senting a lift of 15 p.c. If the 1935-36 :
ratio of profits-increase to production-
increase is maintained during 1936-37,
net steelworks earnings should be up
about 20 p.c. The Barrier mine may
assist total earnings also. If the div.
(now 12y p.c. p.a.) isn’t lifted this term
it will only be because policy is against
it.
* * * ❖
Mauri Bros, and Thomson ords. have
risen 2s. (to 755.) since attention was
drawn to them here a fortnight ago. The
yield is 4 p.c. at the present gross price,
which will be improved after deduction
of the accrued dividend —an interim, rate
undeclared, is due at the end of this
month. Last year’s rate of earning was
25.9 p.c. on ord. capital, and subsidiary
cos. may bring something special to
light later. Crown seals, corks, vinegar,
shop refrigerators and general equipment
are responsible for most of the profit.
* il: 4'- *
Sales of Australian Cement (Melb.)
shares were recorded in Sydney last
week, and Kandos (N.S.W.) scrip in Mel-
bourne. A most unusual occurrence, but
indicating to some extent the revived
investment interest in the cement indus-
try. Kandos 16s. scrip at 245. 9d. was
still undervalued 4s. 3d. in relation to
Aust. Cement (£1) at 325. 6d.
* ❖ * *
The rise in Mt. Morgan scrip,
checked last week after quotes went
above 195., was principally due to the
increasing price of copper, of which the
Queensland mine turns out about 2000
tons p.a. (1513 tons in 1935, but the
content is increasing). With the standard
red metal at £6B sterling a ton, the ex-
pected lift in the co.’s revenue is con-
siderable. Present metal quotes are
approximately double the price averaged
in 1935-36. Some holders, however, took
last week’s price, after hanging on for
many months, during most of which
time the shares were below the figure
they paid—up to 20s. on a 2s. 6d.-share
basis.
* ❖ * *
The Commonwealth’s 1,167,0000 z.
gold output for 1936 was the highest
figure for 18 years ; in value (£10,104,817
Aust.), it was only £4,100,000 below the
average of that most prolific decade,
1901-10. A fine-metal price of £8 15s.
an ounce instead of £4 ss. has, of course,
been of great assistance in lifting both
the volume and the value.
* * * *
Associated Pulp and Paper's Tas-
manian project is nearly 12 months closer
to fruition than it was at the time
original shareholders put the money up,
and the scrip could still be got at par or
a few pence over last week. The con-
tribs. are paid to 12s. 6d. It is one. of
the most interesting new manufacturing
ventures put on the market for years,
and Broken Hill is behind it.
* * * *
Market interest in Holeproof (Vic.)
ord. shares has become more confident.
Despite the good year and 10 p.c. div.
prices had relaxed under 30s. for a while
(previous sales were above 325.) after
publication of accounts. Last week
quotes lifted to 31s. ex div., showing a
return of 6.4 p.c. The shares are inter-
esting at the price.
* * 4: *
General Industries’ final div. of 1\ p.c.
made 1 2\ p.c. for the year; the market
was appreciative, but not actually en-
thusiastic. The ord. scrip has lifted from
19s. in December to 225., which includes
the Is. 6d. div. (payable March 13); de-
ducting it, the yield on the net price is
a shade under 7\ p.c. - Tariff-tampering
at Canberra has cooled investors’ regard
for the shares, hence the high return.
* * * *
British Tobacco has maintained its
interim ord. div. at 8 p.c. p.a. The
sharemarket has bid up strongly for the
scrip, paying 535. 6d. last week, a flat-
tering price considering the immediate
yield offering—3 p.c. A special bonus,
from profits accumulated in previous
years, was declared a short time ago ; it
would be unreasonable to expect regular
repetition.
* * * #
In Melbourne last week:
G. J. Coles ords. flopped to £5, then re-
covered to £5 ss. 6d.* following an interim div.
of 15 p.c. p.a., as against 20 p.c. on the pre-
vious occasion. As The Bulletin has said pre-
viously, around £5 is a fair price for this stock
until something tangible takes the place of
uncertain sharemarket hopes.
Jalan Kebun Rubber declared an interim at
rate of 8 p.c. p.a., payable March 16. In its
previous term the co. paid 4 p.c.
Port Swettenham Rubber declared a div.
of 6 p.c. on its 8 p.c. pref. shares.
The Ides of March.
Investors are being warned, like
Caesar, to beware of the Ides of
March, because for a few years
now it has been the fashion of the
sharemarket to have a fit of the
blues in the middle of the third
month of the year. It happened
most particularly in 1935 and 1936 ;
some leading issues behaved as
follows over the trying period:
Feb. Mar. April.
Bank of N.S.W., ’35, . £3l £3O/10/- £3l
„ „ „ ’36.. £35 £35 £34
Tooth, ’35 . . .. 51/- 48/6 52/6
„ ’36 . . .. 56/- 52/ 53/6
Metrop. Gas, ’35 .. £l5 £l4/5/- £l4
„ „ ’36 .. £l4/7/- £l3/19/- £l4/4/-
Aust. Glass, ’35 . . 64/9 57/6 60/-
„ „ ’36 . . 88/- 82/- 88/9
B.H. Prop., ’35 . . 53/6 47/3 52/3
„ „ ’-36 .. 62/3 57/6 61/3
British Tobacco, ’35.. 39/6 36/- 39/9
„ ~ ’36.. 43/- 40/- 40/6
In ’35 the sharemarket was forced
to take stock of itself because the
wool market had been in a col-
lapsed state for some time after a
temporary boom ; in ’36 there was
a financial uproar following the
Commonwealth Bank’s public
Treasury bill issue and the Bank
of N. S. Wales’s action in lifting
its deposit rates. Higher share
prices than before followed each
slump. There appears to be no
advantage offering now in selling
good shares in the hopes of pick-
ing them up cheaply later. Shares
of merit are certain to “come
good” again, while there is no cer-
tainty that an opportunity for cheap
rebuying will arise.


i f
m
w
&
m
m
v
«L
■
ill J
■
- / s
Mi
■ ■
' /
5 i
: ■
HiM
■7 7 ;jHH
.... ....,* ...... «n ■
Pi
■
■
3@SS V«3S
nn
7'. ;< 777
■B
SH'
■
BHH
7
fi SJWS. J tMtf
11331 ftt I :JS
■•7
■ H
mm
. j
*
■
H
n
•~9
mm
mm*.
HBHH
H pal
:>, ~ I
77. .■ 1 Jk '*■"■
m
m
, ■ ■: '■••' 7;
IN
HOME
Your guests will appreciate the delicate aroma
of this Fine Australian Whisky, and their judg-
ment, like yours, will acclaim its soft mellowness.
It is a satisfying drink!
“A really charming spirit”
This specially-selected Australian Malt Whisky
is guaranteed Pure Pot Stilled, and won First
Prize at the Royal Gentenary Show.
MILNE’S WHISKY
is sold at a price to suit your purse, because there is no
primage or exchange and duty is little more than Half
that of imported wbisKies.
6a
. a nip
7/9
per bottle
in Metropolitan Area,
Country Slightly Higher.
New South Wales Distributors for the House of MILNE.
CAWSEY MENCK T. & S. LTD.,
447 Kent Street,
SYDNEY.
,r\
m
AUSTRAL
whisk
fil
:


FOR CAULFIELD.
St. Kilda Handicap: Pooley
Bridge ; next, Northwind.
South Yarra Handicap: Garrio ;
next, Cry Havoc.
Kooyong Welter: The Trump;
next, Great Legend.
FOR ROSEHILL.
Three - year - old Handicap :
Arabia ; next, Ramdin.
Rawson Stakes: Allunga ; next,
Lough Neagh.
Railway Handicap: Silver Rose ;
next, Pavarti or Rosmead.
Autumn Handicap: Panrose;
next, Fireman.
Parramatta Mile: Rosmead;
next, Autoland.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Sydney horses did well on the open-
ing day of the V.R.C. autumn meeting,
Gold Rod taking the Essendon Stakes
and Upoko Ariki the Brunswick Stakes.
They entirely misfired on the Tuesday,
but on Thursday scored three, wins
in a row, Caesar being successful in the
Ascot Vale Stakes, El Senorita in the
River Handicap and The Jilt in the.
Hopeful Stakes. On Saturday local
horses scooped the pool.
Mutable (Drake-Varium) won the Aus-
tralian Cup because of superior fitness
and unsuspected stamina. W. J. Smart,
his owner-trainer, had given him plenty
of racing, and the gelding thrived on it.
“S. A. Rawdon,” who bred Mutable,
was the first to shake Smart by the hand
when the Cup winner returned to scale.
Years ago Smart credited “Rawdon” —•
actually Dr. A. E. Syme, part proprietor
of the “Age”—with a Newmarket Handi-
cap on Blague, trained by the late Adam
Skirving. Throughout many seasons
Smart was principal jockey for the
“Rawdon” stable, then situated at
Mentone.
A surprising feature of the course
wagering on the Cup was the elevation
of Pooley Bridge to the position of
favorite, the hurdler ousting Royal Mes-
senger, who had been backed heavily on
the previous evening by Lou Robertson
and his followers. Royal Messenger is
by the same sire as Marabou. He was
reported to have done nearly as good a
long-distance trial as Marabou’s before
the Melbourne Cup of 1935.
Dawson, who sold a half-interest in
Pooley Bridge at the outset of that horse’s
career to A. E. (“Bert”) Foulsham, the
trainer, is far from being a big punter,
which makes it all the more strange
that the Ornamentation gelding should
have been backed down to 7 to 2, with
Royal Messenger nearest in request at
11 to 2.
The trainer of Pooley Bridge has in-
herited keen judgment of track form
from his father, the Randwick veteran
Ike Foulsham. He declared that Pooley
Bridge was class enough and competent
to outstay all rivals in the 21-miles han-
dicap. It was by a mere half-length that
the hurdling hero of last winter failed
to discharge a big task. Fifty yards from
home the race looked a good thing for
Pooley Bridge, but the 33-to-l chance
wore him down.
Credit for the Australian Cup being
run in almost record time is largely due
to the dazzling pace set by Cuddle for
lx miles. The M.L. mare spread out
the field. Benthos pressed her closely,
but at the end of a mile the nearest of
the others —Royal Messenger—was 20
lengths farther away. Assuming that he
was as good as Lou Robertson believed,
the race was made to order for Royal
Messenger. However, that candidate was
weighed in the balance and found
wanting.
The Bulletin’s choice was Demotic,
who went out at 10 to 1, so a t'ote ticket
each way was profitable. Demotic may
come to Sydney for the two-miler on
Easter Monday.
Demotic finished very strongly to
cut Hot Shot out of third money, but
he was separated from Pooley Bridge by
21 lengths. Cape York was fifth and
Benthos (a much-improved horse) sixth,
followed by Amalia, last year’s winner,
who made a bold bid at the home bend
but died on her run.
Cape York’s stable nickname is
“Squizzy.” The trainer, Whelan, says
the M.L.-bred gelding is undepend-
able in private and public. Cape York
shaped so mulishly for Bastian in a race
at Morphettville that, after passing the
post, Bastian gave him a clout with the
whip. Cape York immeditely propped,
elevated his hind legs and dumped the
jockey. Facing his late mount from a
recumbent position, Bastian ejaculated:
“You win! I’ll never ride you again.”
Overthrow of Gold Rod by Pamelus in
the C. M. Lloyd Stakes clearly estab-
lishes that' the Queenslander is the most
brilliant miler in the Commonwealth.
With a pull of only 41b. in weight Gold
Rod beat him in the V.A.T.C. Futurity
Stakes, but Pamelus conceded E. J.
Watt’s colt 91b. on Saturday and scored
most decisively. Elliot was content to
have Pamelus three lengths behind Gold
Rod at the straight entrance. Thus
ridden, in contrast to the Futurity tactics,
Pamelus turned the tables.
Fate was unkind to Holt at Fleming-
ton. Golden Promise beat Cuddle and
Gay Blonde so handsomely in the King’s
Plate on March 2 that he looked to be
a great Australian Cup proposition and
a likely star later on at Randwick. But
on the following morning Golden Prom-
ise showed signs of leg trouble. He
had to be thrown out of training, and
cannot race again until the spring—if
then.
As runner-up to Hua in the Sires’
Produce Stakes and winner of the Ascot
Vale Stakes five days later, Caesar (Sil-
vius-Wingecarribee) was the best juvenile
at Flemington, though the fact of Hua
being third in the Ascot Vale Stakes with
a 101 b. penalty makes that son of Heroic
a formidable rival for the classics for
youngsters at Randwick. Ajax (another
son of Heroic), who split Caesar and Hua
on Thursday, also will have to be reck-
oned with if he conquers the propensity
to hang out.
Frank Musgrave has made plans for
taking both Ajax and Beechwood to
Sydney, where their part-owners reside.
A. W. Thompson and “Mr. Constable”
are interested in Ajax, while P. H.
Osborne races Beechwood in conjunction
with the Baillieu brothers. Beechwood
on Saturday atoned for his Newmarket
Handicap failure by annexing the Leon-
ard Stakes, in which he outsped Studio
and relegated the favorite, Regular
Bachelor, into third place. As in the
Newmarket, Regular Bachelor came
home strongly. He isn’t wound up yet.
Lochlee was withdrawn from the Gib-
son Carmichael Stakes on Saturday with
the view to seeing whether the Veilmond
colt would freshen up sufficiently ,to
justify a Sydney visit. In his absence
Liberty, a Pantheon colt in Bailey Pay-
ten’s string, was made a hot favorite.
Liberty (7 to 4) missed a place. Le
Baron (3 to 1) led all the way and won
without undue effort from D. J. Price’s
pair, John Wilkes and Campaspe. Since
his defeat in a small race at Kyneton a
few weeks ago Le Baron has advanced
rapidly as a galloper. He can stay, too,
the distance on Saturday being seven fur-
longs. Le Baron promises to prove one
of the best of the progeny of Dignity.
Seven Hills, who “bolted home” in
the Autumn Steeplechase, is a brother
to Laniroi, winner of the Australian
Hurdle of 1934. The former owner,
despairing of success, made him prac-
tically a gift to A. C. Ling, one-time
foreman to P. T. Heywood. It was
arranged that Ling should pay £5O out
of the gelding’s first win, if that contin-
gency ever arose. Seven Hills scored
over hurdles at Ascot and became the
absolute property of Ling, who collected
£5OO in stake money alone an Saturday.
Ling looked after Artilleryman when
that horse registered his remarkable Mel-
bourne Cup victory in 1919.
The Trump displaced Country Party
from favoritism in the Farewell Handi-
cap, but he was second-last most of
the way and finished sixth only. Dick
Devon (8 to 1) came at the right end to
win narrowly from Dunloe, who was
half a head in advance of Country Party.
Though getting on in years, Dick Devon
remains useful. He landed the same
event in 1936.
* * * *
Owners and trainers in these parts can’t
understand the Australian programmes
drawn up for Cuddle. She must be an
iron mare to stand them. Cuddle looked
a cot case after the 1936 Australian Cup
race, and again after the race for the
Sydney Cup, and, though her recupera-
tive powers are such that she was an easy
winner of the A.J.C. Doncaster and All-
Aged Stakes, in the spring she was no
good at all. This season she cut up
badly in two races at Caulfield (St.
George and Futurity Stakes), and was
then an excellent second to Gold Rod
in the Essendon Stakes. After a three
days’ spell she was saddled up again to
tackle Golden Promise in the King's
Plate, 14 furlongs. Beaten easily by three
lengths, a distance which the younger
horse could have doubled comfortably,
the mare was then reserved for another
Australian Cup race, being allowed four
days in which to get properly rested for
the journey of two miles and a quarter.
She, of course, faded out again. And
the old girl had three races —one a two-
miler —in Maoriland between Dec. 26
and Jan. 2. The owner will get no fancy
price for her when she finishes racing.
* * * *
Horse-dealer Christey got a good nag
cheap when he paid 360 guineas for
Barramul. A brown three-year-old colt
by Caledon (sire of Young Crusader) out
of Smart Bird, Barramul has won several
races in Christey’s colors, and he defeated
some good horses in the Club Handicap
at' Rosehill. Leading throughout and
well ridden by Jeffers, he was able to
hold off Hope and Mananui at the finish
of 10 furlongs; and the stable got eights
for its money. Celebrate had a bad run
and Tuckiar did not escape trouble.
Barramul is now talked of for the St.
Leger. As an early two-year-old when
raced by Billy Kerr and Peter Riddle he
was considered a Derby proposition, but
his later form was disappointing.
Moonray (4 to 1) showed improved
form in winning the Westmead Handicap
from Bonnie Legion and Short Wave.
Billy Cook took Booth’s gelding to the
front, and dashed him away at the turn,
though Bonnie Legion took some shak-
ing off. Short' Wave was third. The
favorite, High Speech, third early,
dropped out as the race progressed. The
Raider, looking as if he had been in a
lucerne paddock, surprised by showing
pace to the Leger. He looked dangerous
beginning the last furlong, but he faltered
and was not knocked about. A.J.C. com-
mitteeman Pat Osborne’s gelding is in
the Doncaster.
Lucky Kid likes Rosehill. A daughter
of Dunnottar, whose progeny are mostly
sprinters, she may develop into a useful
stayer. Backed late to sixes, she ran
away from her opponents in the Gran-
ville Novice, a nine-furlongs handicap;
Padding Queen and The Blizzard filled
the places. Lasting did the best of the
beaten lot, and may be worth toting for
a middle-distance event in the subbubs.
Indeed there are staying possibilities in
this fellow.
Veteran sportsman James Barnes was
present to see his colt Parlance (2 to 1)
win the Maiden Welter from Tickle and
King Pyrrhus. Parlance is on the small
side —his dam, Sweet Oration, was a 14.2
pony—but he showed plenty of pluck in
the straight. Holbein got boxed up early,
but Duke Heroic, who has had a season
at the stud, showed pace, as did Ransom,
an early winner at six furlongs when the
company is not choice.
Sydney businessman A. J. Kitchen can
look forward to autumn racing with
optimism. His Bullhead colt Bodley
Head, in appearance only half-fit, showed
a clean pair of heels to First Chance and
Byculla in the first division of the
Juvenile Stakes. He started at sixes be-
cause of his appearance ; he was in a
muck sweat while doing his preliminary.
Harlowe (5 to 1), carrying the colors of
pastoralist E. A. Haley, romped home
in the second division. This stable-mate
of King’s Head is also by Bullhead, and
looks an ideal sprinter. Hunter White’s
handsome Tippler filly Esteemed (7 to 1)
broke a run of bad luck for trainer W. T.
Dwyer in the third division.
Fernacre (6 to 1) was adjudged un-
lucky to go under to Speldon at Rand-
wick. Waiting for the last run in the
Rydalmere Mile he cleared out at the
Leger and won easily from Ramdin and
Turbine. The favorite,, Gothlin, was slow
to move and was checked in the early
stages. Somebody backed Soft Step
from long prices to sevens. The former
Queenslander was ridden patiently on
the, rails, but he merely plugged along to
finish seventh.
* * * *
Gay Lothario stock is now in the
boom. At the yearling sales at Newmar-
ket (Vic.) last week Elwood Fisher, act-
ing for Phillip Russell, gave 1850 guineas
for a chestnut colt by Gay Lothario out
of Savata, a mare raced by Phillip Rus-
sell, as was her dam Harriet Graham,
winner of the 1917 Australian Cup. A
Gay Lothario-Sweet Echo colt brought
800 guineas, and Holt got a brother to
Gay Lover (Gay Lothario-Violet Rays)
for 660 guineas. Gay Lothario is stand-
ing at St. Albans, where many great
horses were bred—Aurum, Wakeful and
Revenue, among them—in W. R. Wilson’s
time. Manfred, Windbag, Beau Fils and
Gaine Carrington were among the sires
represented at these sales, and 106 year-
lings were sold for 22,830 guineas, the
average being an improvement on 1936
and 1935 figures.
* * * *
After Young Crusader’s almost super-
equine effort in the Melbourne Cup, the
man who does the tipping for The Bul-
letin and wrote the Picking ’Em articles
questioned the wisdom of putting the
chestnut in training for summer meetings
and advised punters not to back him until
he had demonstrated that he had not
lost his form. Young Crusader has since
run half a dozen times without running
into a place; the nearest he got was
fourth, and in most of his races he faded
out to last —or near it. His unsuccessful
journey to Melbourne for autumn races
has at last secured him a spell. Whether
he will be worth a rush when he has had
it remains to be seen.
* * * *
“S.G.”: At the 1936 autumn meetings
in Melbourne, Cuddle won a weight-for-
age race at Caulfield and was second in
the Futurity Stakes to Regular Bachelor.
At Flemington Cuddle was second in a
weight-for-age race and Regular Bachelor
won the Newmarket. It all happened
before Lent, and that was Leap Year.
At the corresponding meetings of 1937
each horse started several times without
winning. Ladies and other believers in
coincidence may make what they please
of these happenings.
* # * *
“Waitot”: Hawke’s Bay (M.L.) boasts
a couple of memorials to horses, and
both the nags were known to Austra-
lians. Patriarch, a bay stallion bred by
E. K. Cox (N.S.W.) in 1869, was taken
to Maoriland by Willie Broughton, a
wealthy Maori landowner ; the memorial
recording his death in 1894 was the
tribute of the sorrowing negro groom
who cared for the stallion in Hawke’s
Bay. The other memorial is to Merriwee,
whom the Flemington crowd saw win the
Derby and Melbourne Cup in 1899. The
handsome memorial tablet stands on
what was the Longlands stud farm a few
miles out of Hastings.
* * * *
The stable is now satisfied that the
Melbourne Cup race knocked Talking
out, and the £19,000 colt has been
scratched for all autumn engagements.
* * * *
Adelaide Racing Club is to make local
history this year by cutting its Birthday
meeting down to two Saturdays. The
anniversary in question was originally
that of Queen Victoria, and the holiday
to be observed for George VI. is not
yet decided locally. The City Handi-
cap will be worth £700; Birthday Cup,
£l5OO ; total stakes, £4450, with a hurdle
and a steeple on each day.
4 sfc * *
A former king of the, Victorian turf,
F. W. Purches, scratched from all events
at Moonee Ponds, at 82. He began his
turf career with trotters which were
trained for him by Bradfield. When he
turned to gallopers, Bradfield went with
him, and the combination again proved
successful. The best of a lot of
good horses owned by Purches were
Portsea (Bagot Handicap, Australian
Cup and Champion Stakes) and Patron
(Melbourne Cup, 1894). Purches dropped
out of the game for years, but returned
and usually had a nag or two in training.
* * * *
Four days’ racing at Flemington, with
three days as the longest interval, has
been proved excessive when a Test match
is raging. The V.R.C. had this formid-
able opposition on two days of its
autumn round, and the committee must
have been satisfied, when too late, that
the Tuesday and Thursday meetings were
redundant. Perhaps a three-day round
is enough at any time except in the
spring and, in the case of the A.J.C., at
Easter. Anyway, that is how punters
feel. To those who live on the game it
may be a case of the more the merrier.


to sparkling
HEALTH andJFITNESS
‘Pep’ in a Few Minutes
,v
m
MFk
There’s nothing like
Cream of Yeast to calm
the Nerves in tense,
exciting moments!
WHY be nervous, weak-looking and depressed? You can put
new pep into your jaded body; new sparkle in your eyes; and
gain several pounds of healthy “stay-there” flesh, improving
your looks and fitness amazingly—by means of this New Yeast Com-
pound. Everyone who tries Cream of Yeast says it is a marvellous pick-
me-up ! Not only makes you feel better and brighter in a few minutes,
but it has no equal for banishing “pasty” skin, nerve troubles, indiges-
tion, headaches, sleeplessness and “run-down” conditions generally.
Bony limbs take on attractive curves; ugly hollows vanish—you quickly
become a different being when you take this remarkable remedy.
Thousands
say “Cream
of Yeast is
LIFEr *
*ltv'liaSrf.
_ done me
Ik
iiiii
9 s
v *
■ a
5\ ./;
mm.
L
1
mm
m
i
Gain Weight
and Stamina
NOW 1
ONE
User says: j
“I find great
relief in Cream
{of Yeast; it has
I lone me good
in several
ways. Had
been in ‘ Hospital’ and ‘ Sani-
tarium.’ Was going back in health, and
was in a very bad way. Before finishing
my first bottle of Cream of Yeast I
began to improve. I have spent no end
of money on other medicines, but none
have! accomplished the good that Cream
of Yeast has done.... Such a vast im-
provement in so short a time.”
—A.E., Young, N.S.W.
m
i sm
■
SwitMNSSMI
A Leading Newspaper says: “Cream of Yeast is
a re-vitaliser. Its great beneficial health-giving power lies in the
fact that it quickly tones up the whole
system and so corrects the trouble
at its root. The combination
of essential substances
makes Cream of
Yeast the great-
est tonic pick-
me-up known.*'
GAIN
NEW ‘PEP 9
TO-DAY—
Amazing Vitality To-morrow!
This is something new in rejuven-
ating “pick-me-ups”—the benefits
come with surprising rapidity, yet
results are lasting. Cream of Yeast
combines yeast and other medicinal
agents of known and proven value
—in handy tablet form. Safe and
reliable. Unfailing results.
It is folly to be thin, nervous and lacking in “pep"
when thousands, once run-down and ill, tell how they
gained Slbs. to 15lbs. in 2 or 8 weeks- —and immediate
new strength—by simply taking Cream of Yeast.
Quick Benefit
—or Money Back!
Get a package of Cream of
Yeast from the nearest
Chemist. Take as directed
on bottle, and if after this
generous trial you are not
thrilled with the weight and
health benefits gained, your
money will be refunded by
Amalgamated
Laboratories,
Wynyard
Square,
Sydney.
WHAT CREAM OF YEAST DOES
Relieves Headaches and Neu-
ralgia in If minutes. Banishes
Depression, Low Spirits, Brain
Fag in 8 minutes. Relieves
Acidity, Sour Stomach, Indiges-
tion in 3 minutes. Relieves
Periodical and Abdominal Pains
usually in 12 minutes.
Clears up Influenza Colds,
Catarrh attacks, Rheumatism,
Aches, Pains, etc., untMn 15
hours. Gives marked increase of
Forceful Vigor aiA “Pep” in
15 minutes. Clears Pim,ples,
Boils, Muddy Skin and Erup-
tions usually xvithin 2 days.
Famous
A thlctes
1
train on
Cream of Yeast.
o
All Chemists and Stores,
1/11, S/6 and 5/9.


••SILVER
EDGE”
trade O mark registered
THE RAYBESTOS CO.
BRAKE
LINING
You Must Have Reliable Brakes!
DO you realise that the brakes of a normal weight of touring car
are called upon to perform work at the rate of approximately
90 horse-power?
Practically the whole of the energy stored in your moving car
has to be converted into heat at the brakes before the car can come
to rest.
Your brakes must be reliable and capable of withstanding these
high loads and temperatures, so use only high quality brake lining.
'Ask. f or “Raybestos,” which has proved itself over many years of service •
RAYBESTOS-BELACO LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Factory Rep.: JOHN ARNOLD, G.P.O, Box 71, MELBOURNE, VIC,
For
of ACC URj\qy
An accurate tyre gauge is a real asset. A gauge
you can rely on for years is worth far more
than one that is unreliable after a few
months’ use. Pay an extra shilling or
two for a Kismet “CADET”
and enjoy those extra
years of accuracy.
"9 If*
/ <o
m
TY
Calibrated 0-501 b. in
11b. units dearly
marked. In neat
leather wallet.
Factory Representative:
JOHN ARNOLD,
P.O. Box 71,
Melbourne, Australia.
ManufcLcturers:
WILLIAM TURNER &
BRO., LTD.,
Eyre Works, Sheffield,
England.
Ins and Outs
Australia won the 139th Test with Eng-
land by an innings and 200 runs. This
makes the Australian score 56 to 54, and
29 games have been drawn. For the
first time since Gilligan left these shores
a defeated skipper in 1925 an English
side has gone home without the cham-
pionship. Unless indications are all
wrong the English should have little
better luck on their home grounds at the
next meeting.
In the Englishmen’s first innings a
wetted pitch did things but was not
horribly bad, as Wyatt, with a trades-
manlike shot of 38, showed, Hardstaff,
who began as if the pitch was a billiard-
table, persisted in that belief and acted
accordingly until most of his mates left
him with 83—a grand innings—on the
board. O’Reilly and Nash were now
right on top of the batting, and the last
five wickets went for 5! O’Reilly 5-51,
Nash 4-70. Total, 239.
Sent in again, England lost Worthing-
ton and Hardstaff in the first couple of
overs. The pitch had recovered well,
but there was a hopeless atmosphere
about some of the batting. Barnett gave
another of his dashing displays, including
the six we have learned to expect from
him, and then O’Reilly “legged” him for
41. Hammond this time shaped like the
champion we know he is until Bradman
snared him off O’Reilly for 56. Leyland
made an attempt to stay with the
Gloucester lad, but Fleetwood-Smith,
with McCormick’s help, sent him out
for 28. Wyatt, Ames and Allen went
for 25 among them, and those stalwarts
Voce and Verity played out time on
Tuesday night with their scores 2 and 1.
The whole staff and entourage of the
ground and the cricket organisations
were lugged back on Wednesday morn-
ing to see the inevitable end. It came
with the first two balls, Fleetwood-Smith
getting Voce and Fames caught off the
swipes they might very well have
attempted on Tuesday evening. All
were out for 165. O’Reilly and Fleet-
wood-Smith took 3 for 58 and 3 for 36
respectively.
While England undoubtedly had the
worse of the luck in getting a tricky
wicket on which to answer the Australian
score of 604, bad catching lost it one or
two golden chances which, if accepted,
might have turned the tide. Still, these
things are part of all games.
Generally, the Britons have not been
well treated by Fortune. No previous
team has had such a string of accidents
which put key men out of the game.
Wyatt’s broken arm, for instance, lost
them the services of one of the best
opening batsmen in the game, while
Ames and Fagg have both been incapaci-
tated, the latter totally so for the closing
stages of the tour. It is hard to account
for the number of failures by men who
are in the first class in England. Fagg,
Copson, Fishlock, Worthington and
Robins all fell far short of the form
they have been showing in England, and
Hardstaff, most attractive of scoring bats-
men when he was last in Australia with
Holmes, found himself only in the closing
stages of the tour.
One outcome seems certain: the Eng-
lishmen here and the press at Home are
emphatic on the curtailment of future
Australian tours. The chief hurdle is
the long and wearisome journeys from
State to State, added to an often trying
climate. It is probable also that some
of the country matches will be cut out,
as the old-time matches against odds
have been.
Allen faced a touchy job, considering
the feeling his predecessor had aroused.
He carried it' out splendidly, and was
finely backed up by his team. The
alleged Australian barracking iniquity
could not be detected at any match of
the series, and Allen and his men can
go back confident that they leave behind
them the same atmosphere of warm
good-feeling that followed on Percy
Chapman’s departure.
* * * *
“Jolimont”: Bradman’s 169 at Mel-
bourne brought his tally of Test cen-
turies level with that of Hobbs, each
man having made 12. But whereas
Hobbs took 41 Tests to make his record
Bradman has taken only 23. Hobbs's
aggregate is 3636, 2493 made in Australia
and 1143 in England: Bradman’s 3402,
1732 in England and 1670 in Australia.
Hobbs preferred Australia for century-
making, nine having been run up here.
Bradman has been fairly impartial, scor-
ing five three-figure innings in England
and seven in his own land. Hobbs’s
highest is 187 ; Bradman’s 334.
.‘I: :p *
“Old Q.”: The five Tests drew close
on a million spectators, who coughed
up £87,496. The star gates were at
Melbourne, £29,169 for the third Test
and £18,300 for the fifth. Adelaide and
Brisbane turned in £17,495 and £10,323
respectively. Considering the size of the
place, Sydney did wretchedly, its takings
being only £2OOO more than Brisbane,
£12,209 to wit. Sydney’s much-boosted
“ Anyway, Tom, y can say y’ was still on yr feet at the finish!”
ground is sadly in need of modernising.
Save for a new stand or two it is much
the same as when writer played on it in
the ’nineties.
* * * *
“Staffs”: Test averages show that only
five, topped 50 with the bat, Bradman
(90), McCabe (54.55), Gregory, (51),
Hammond (58.5) and Leyland (55.12).
All these, save Gregory, who went to
the wickets three times, had nine innings.
Others of the Australians who played
the full series were Oldfield (9.87), Fingle-
ton (44.22) and O’Reilly (8), while 18
players in all went through the mill in the
five Tests. Seven Englishmen, on the
other hand, played right through—Ham-
mond, Leyland, Barnett, Hardstaff, Allen,
Ames and Verity. Of the 16 English-
men, Copson and Fishlock did not catch
a Test.
O’Reilly and Voce split bowling honors
with 25 and 26 wickets respectively—
O’Reilly’s costing 22.28 apiece, Voce’s
22.3. Fleetwood-Smith and Fames took
19 and 11 wickets respectively, but both
arrived or the scene rather late. McCor-
mick (11) and Ward (11), with Allen (17),
Hammond (12) and Verity (10), also
reached double figures. Verity bowled
195.7 overs, O’Reilly 248 ; Fleetwood-
Smith held his end up with 129. Nash,
McCormick and Sievers did not give a
hint of real Test-match genius.
* * * *
“Itin”: Of the 17 first-class matches
played by Allen’s team five were won,
five lost and seven drawn, the wins in-
cluding two Tests. Though the team of
16 was one of the largest brought to Aus-
tralia its percentage of casualties was a
record. It is certain that the M.C.C.
will ask for shorter programmes and
an itinerary rearranged to avoid long
and tiring rail journeys, or, where these
are unavoidable, to ensure a rest before
Tests and other important matches.
* * * *
“Vale”: The Englishmen are going
home in bits. Fagg, who has been seri-
ously ill but is well again, is departing
by the Maloja, and Robins follows him
on the Orion. The others, having
finished up their season with a game
against Combined Universities in Syd-
ney, are leaving at the week-end for
M.L., where they will play several
matches. The visit will give the M.L.
authorities a fine chance to test the side
which is to tour England during the
coming season. From Maoriland the
Englishmen go home by way of New
York.
* =i= * *
“Hotham”: If the Tests have done
nothing else they have brought forward
two batsmen, Badcock and Gregory, who
are likely to go far in big cricket, while
Fleetwood-Smith has definitely estab-
lished himself in international class. In
days to come Badcock and Gregory
promise to supply the pair of openers
which Australia is never very long with-
out, though some would prefer Fingle-
ton to the ex-Tasmanian. At any rate
we have other reliable bats besides Brad-
man and McCabe, and, all being well,
men like Tallon and Barnett promise to
furnish two more. Wanted now a super-
lative fast bowler of the E. A. McDonald
type.
Tenth Slip : Someone has been sug-
gesting that future travelling cricket
teams should have two captains—one to
look after the cricket and the other to
do the spruiking. Remarking in passing
that the specimens of speeches we have
had from visiting and local captains do
not suggest a severe strain on the intel-
lect or anything else, it can only be said
that the idea has been tried and was a
flat failure. When Jardine came out
Warner was attached to his staff as the
spellbinder. The pair failed to hit it.
* * * *
Tenakoe : Maoriland has chosen
14 cricket-players for the coming tour
of England. Skippered by M. L. Page,
the side comprises Hadfield, Kerr and
Roberts of Canterbury, Maloney, Tindall,
Griffiths (Wellington), Carson, Vivian,
Wallace, Cowie and Weir from Auck-
land, Dunning (Otago) and Donnelly
from Taranaki. Page, Kerr, Vivian and
Weir have made the trip before.
Nineteenth Hole
“Divot Digger”: Hagen and Kirk-
wood, now in M.L., will make their
first N.S.W. appearance at Oatlands club
on March 13 and follow that up with a
show at Manly four days later. The
pair also play at Concord on March 16
and wind up at The Lakes on March
18. Brisbane will see them on March
21, a game at Lismore being played on
the way up. After an exhibition at
Toowoomba (Q.) on March 22, the pair
play their last games in N.S.W. at Tam-
worth and then go on to Melbourne.
Application was made for permission to
play on the Australian club’s course at
Kensington, but this was refused as
several of the greens are under repair.
The tourists resolved not to apply for
the use of the Royal Sydney course, as
had been intended.
* * * *
“Ironmonger”: Walter Hagen has been
telling a M.L. interviewer that he favors
the St. Andrews idea of limiting the
number of golf clubs to 14. As Walter
himself makes his unhappy caddie hump
round anything from 25 to 30 his
opinion is interesting. Walter, who will
be playing in the British open, says his
countrymen are concentrating on recov-
ering the championship, which they lost
last year.
* * * *
“Niblick”: The only charge on the
sheet against Sydney’s W. O. (Billy)
Richards is that he perpetrated an annual
golf match and donated a cup. The
offence was committed in 1923, and
to-day (Wednesday) advertising men will
repair to The Lakes (not the original
scene of the crime) to discuss it with
clubs. All those associated with adver-
tising are eligible to compete. There
are five first prizes and many places to
be filled.
Racquet and Bawl
“Jachris”: Every year overseas critics
tip Australia as the best bet for the
Davis Cup. Tilden has done it so often
that' it’s earned him a reputation as the
world’s worst tennis prophet. First in
the field this year is one David Jones,
whom Noo .Yark cables describe as a
former Cambridge Uni. tennis captain.
One reason given by Jones in tipping
Australia is that' “each of the Big Four
has only one dependable singles player."
He ranks Quist as the best all-round ama-
teur of the present day, and thinks
“Crawford, at a pinch, can really pro-
duce one victory.” Last year against
Britain he couldn’t.
* * * *
McGrath’s first win over Crawford on
a grass court happened in the Northern
Suburbs championship final —6-3, 7-5 in
a three-set match. Crawford has pre-
viously lost form after the Davis Cup


FOR FAULTLESS
IGNITION
A TINY INSTRUMENT
FOR THE
m^Sdiah
e
A perfectly safe hearing aid.
Non-electrical - Practically
i.. visible—No wires —No
batteries —No headbands.
VIBRAPHONE
The World's Smallest
Effective Hearing Aid
30 DAYS’ HOME TRIAL
Write for Book-
let and details of
Trial Offer.
B. NATHAN
37 Austral Buildings,
115 Collins St.,Me!b., C.l.
Things Are Looking Up
During 1936 Broken Hill’s population increased
by 1640 to well over 28,000. The number of
men employed along the line of lode rose 742
to 4295 and the wages paid by the mines alone
soared from approximately £27,000 to £30,000
weekly.
And prospects for 1931/ are even brighter.
LET. ..
” The Barrier Miner "
carry your message to this rich market —you
just can’t afford to ignore it 1
Further details can be had from
P. A. MESSENGER,
Warwick Bldg.,
Sydney.
A. G. PIKE,
Newspaper House,
M elbourne.
NEWS, LTD., North Terrace, Adelaide.
fMAT TO BEAD'S
COBSUITTf/E L/TEBAWPEMWSM /
THE AUSTRALASIAN-
OA/SALE~-41LStAT£S-P#/C£6 9
Patent.
AUTOMATIC INKING DEVICES FOR
RECORDING MACHINES.
THE proprietors of Commonwealth Patent No.
11852/28 are prepared to negotiate for the sale
of their rights in the above, or for the granting
of a license to make, use and vend the inven-
tion within the Commonwealth of Australia.
Particulars obtainable from Griffith, Hassel
and Griffith, Patent Attorneys, Sydney.
■ ■
S | I
« * Iff I'M*
If I
I# 1 ft
t^ww
B5 f f
\ $
S' 1"! Ilf!
* * c
i I! r *
S 85 85S
11 ft ft 061
II *« nd P f
1.. 1*
il it r p
mill v
P»
5 #
I 85
'ssBB
5
QI
Ott*
55555.
t r p nil
11
ss §
M
Ilf
wm
I A
thniisaißs
s
#§. i
II I
Uiuuo
M
I I im
I I
T lift 111
i nrff p i
o <s x x v
l»pi * I
t il
s s
i II
m
II fill
1 v ** ©
t7Aereomft?B/ick i
M 83.30.36.
Barnet Glass
Xheckskid" tyres
The Tyres with the Longest Non-Skid Life
team has been chosen; but this time
there's a suggestion that he is on the
down grade. With Quist, McGrath and
Bromwich all showing good form he'll
need to do something good to hold his
singles place for the Cup games.
Miscellaneous
“Scout”: The footballer-pinching in-
dustry is taking on a new complexion
among Australian Rulers. Until recently
the emissaries of the Victorian League
raided other States loaded down with
brass and bought their best and brightest
for Melbourne. Now South and West-
ralians are raiding the Cabbage Garden
and spiriting away Victoria’s ewe lambs.
The Westralians boldly advertise they
want two young ruckmen and a centre
forward, and are prepared to pay good
money for them, subject to vetting. So
far the Victorian football heads have
done nothing to stem the exodus.
$ % ❖ %
“Fitzcray”: The Victorian F.A. will
open its season on April 17. Only 16
home-and-home matches will be played
instead of the customary 18 first-round
games. The annual match with the
League is set down for Coronation Day
in May.
* * *
“Stand Off”: Big matches this season
in the N.S.W. Rugby League will be a
City-Country match in Sydney on May
29, and N.S.W. v. Queensland at Bris-
bane on June 5 and in Sydney on June
19 and 26. These last dates clash with
the R.U. games against the Springboks,
and there is sure to be a barge over who
should have the Sydney C.G. for the big
matches. It seems absurd that the
trustees should give the preference in the
use of the ground to an obscure band of
professionals over one of the world's
most famous international teams.
It is announced that the N.S.W.-
Queensland Rugby League team will sail
for its tour of the North of England on
July 27.
* * * t-
“Five Ways”: Brisbane Rugby League
may be fairly described as an optimistic
concern. After admitting that the
League’s balance sheet for last season
showed a deficit of £2 Bs., the chairman
announced that a scheme was afoot
whereby the League hoped to spend
£lOO,OOO over a period of four years in
conditioning the Brisbane C.G., which
the League leases for the winter season.
The stunned delegates were wondering
where the brass was to come from when
the report went on to say that a grant of
£25,000 a year from the unemployment-
relief fund for four years “would solve
the question.”
:[; * * *
“Birkenhead Park”: Ireland gave Scot-
land a sound hiding in their international
Rugby match at Dublin, winning 11-4
—three tries and a goal to a dropped
goal. This puts Ireland next to England,
which has beaten Wales and Ireland —by
a single point only in each instance.
England has yet to meet Scotland for the
Calcutta Cup, while Ireland has to play
Wales and Scotland.
* * * *
“Angus”: As a break from cricket
Allen’s men took on a Victorian team at
Soccer after the fifth Test. The locals
led two goals to one at half-time, but
were beaten 5-3. Hammond (two.),
Voce (two) and Worthington netted ’em.
* * * *
“Spike”: The visit of a couple of
Japanese athletes to Maoriland has
boosted things over there. At a show in
Christchurch Togami added a foot to the
hop, step and jump record Metcalfe put
up in 1931, bringing it to 51ft. lin. Mura-
koso cut the best M.L. time for three
miles by 1 3-ssec. to 14min. 17sec. Then
a couple of the locals took a hand. Boot
did the half-mile in lmin. 53 4-ssec., a
second better than his own record ; and
Anderson clipped 2-ssec. off the time
for the 440 hurdles, leaping ’em in
55 l-ssec.
“Splash”: Medica continues to smash
Australian records. In Sydney he beat
Ryan in the mile championship of N.S.W.
in 2lmin. 41 sec. and then went on to
Melbourne, where he broke Charlton’s
figures for the 440 by clocking 4min. 54
4/5 sec. Then he did a bit of country
work in N.S.W. After showing in Bris-
bane the American goes by the northern
route to Eastern Asia on his way home.
Both he and trainer Cady condemn Aus-
tralian methods of coaching and training,
excepting those of Westralia.
“Mortlake”: Once more Australia will
have a representative in each of the Uni-
versity boats in the Oxford-Cambridge
dash on March 24. T. Cree, of Geelong
Grammar, which has contributed several
oarsmen to the Light Blue crews of recent
years, is the latest. He was bow for
Cambridge last year, but was dropped
from the early trials.
$ H* ❖ H*
“Cottesloe”: Some folk can never
have enough of a good thing. George
Rogers, the veteran Westralian stroke,
who must have won as many rowing
races as any man in the world, is going
to London to pit himself against the
cream of English talent at Henley, which
starts on June 30. Rogers, who is 55,
learned his rowing in England, but has
said nothing as to what crew he will
row with on the Thames, though if the
worst comes to the worst he will be
quite willing to take on Leander and the
other flash London clubs on his own.
;jc -I' *l»
“Blade”: Empire Games oarsmen are
to row on the Nepean, and the. N.S.W.
rowing authorities will be entrusted with
the job of picking the Australian crews
for the various events —eights, fours and
sculls over a mile and a quarter course.
The task will be a tricky one, and there
are sure to be heartburnings, though the
result of the King’s Cup in S. Aus. next'
month may clarify the position. Aus-
tralian oarsmen generally are satisfied
that the selectors have no need to go
past the Mosman four.


BRANDAUERS
m
#
PENS
Every point
guaranteed
do not experiment with imitations.
C. BRANDATJER A CO., Ltd., BIRMINGHAM, ENG
The Union Trustee Company of Australia, Ltd.
2 O’CONNELL STREET
ACTS AS
SYDNEY
Executor. Trustee, Administrator, Attorney, Etc.
(Established 1885.)
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE AND TOWNSVILLE.
Amongst the advantages derived:—
The Company never dies, never leaves the State, and is always availab e.
ABSOLUTE SECURITY, EXPERT & ECONOMICAL SERVICE.
NS W DIRECTORS!
F. E. Bryant (Chairman); Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, K.8.E., M.L.C. (Vice-Chairman),
Sir Graham Waddell, K.8.E.; James Kidd, W. H. Mackay, J. Beresford Grant,
Colin A. Sinclair. Manager: J. G. H. Shipway.
(WRITE OR CALL FOR FREE EXPLANATORY BOOKLET .)
THE
IlftllTCn INSURANCE
U 111 I EII COMPANY LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1862.
Head Office:
GEORGE 8 HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL - - £1,000,000
All classes of Fire, Marine and
Accident Insurances effected at
Lowest Current Rates.
The “United” is an Australian Institution.
A. C. DAWSON, T. C. REYNOLD’,
Gen. Manager. Asst. Gen. Manager.
SHADOW
SHOWS
“Sabotage.”
SECRET AGENT .... Oscar Homolka
HIS WIFE Sylvia Sidney
SCOTLAND YARD
DETECTIVE John Loder
Constructed by Fox’s English film-
foundry on a scenario suggested by
Joseph Conrad’s Secret Agent. Homolka
is the agent of some foreign Power that
pays handsomely to have London’s elec-
tricity supply cut off or its public build-
ings blown up. He runs a cinema
theatre, assisted by his wife and wife’s
brother, a lad of about 13. Just outside
the theatre is a fruit-stall, one of the
most energetic assistants on which is
Detective-Sergeant Spence, of New Scot-
land Yard. Poor old Homolka hasn’t a
dog’s chance from the outset. All his
comings and goings and conferences with
sinister men are observed, and when he
gets an order to blow up Piccadilly
Circus with an infernal machine he finds
cops to the front, cops to each side and
cops to the rear of his theatre. So he
sends his young brother-in-law to de-
posit an innocent-looking brown-paper
parcel at the Piccadilly left-luggage office.
It goes off in a bus, and youngster and
40 other people are blown to smithereens.
Mrs. Secret Agent, learning the truth,
stabs her husband with a bread-knife,
but as the. premises are shortly after
blown sky-high by one of the bomb gang
her crime is never discovered, and she
is free to marry the handsome young
sleuth.
Homolka presents the agent as a
kindly, quiet-spoken foreigner, forced
into his role by circumstances, and lack-
ing the imagination to appreciate the
ghastly character of his work. Miss Sid-
ney has ample opportunities to register
her specialty—speechless horror—and
Loder is as usual a genial but hard-
headed young man with a beguiling
tongue. The boy (Desmond Tester) is
Cecil Kellaway in "It Isn’t Done," at
Sydney Embassy.
a bright lad, but a bit too much the
victim of the Freddie Bartholomew
tradition. At Sydney Lyceum.
“Valiant Is the Word for Carrie.”
LADY OF EASY VIRTUE,
Gladys George
ADOPTED DAUGHTER, Arline Judge
DESIGNING FEMALE, Isabel Jewell
PRECOCIOUS KIDS .. Jackie Moran
and Charlene Wyatt
That cynical old publisher who said
that a supreme contempt for probabili-
ties was the novelist’s best asset would
have relished this effort. A city Lilith,
for some unexplained reason, has planted
herself in an ultra-respectable little coun-
try town. There she has as visitor a
small boy whose mother is dying and
whose father ill-treats him. Small boy’s
parents both die. He, a runaway from
his uncle’s farm, adopts a small orphan
Harvey Adams in “It Isn’t Done"
girl who came, out of a train smash,
and maintains her on a deserted house-
boat by thefts of food.
Of course, the golden-hearted gay lady,
now back in the city, adopts the pair of
them, abandons forthwith her profes-
sion, goes into the dry-cleaning business,
is immensely successful and gives the
kids college educations. Having thus
reared them, and cherishing a hope that
they will marry, she finds the boy has
fallen into the clutches of an unprin-
cipled young harpy who intends to marry
him. To buy this girl off Carrie spends
50,000 bucks on a gaol escape for the
girl’s lover, but the plan fails and Carrie
is arrested. She pleads guilty because
her past would be raked up if she didn’t,
to the detriment of her adopted chil-
dren, and the fade-out shows her in a
prison cell saying good-bye to her wards.
A most unlikely story, but it is well
put over. Miss George gets under the
skin of her part and gives it life and
some flavor of feasibility—a very difficult
job. The children, though their conver-
sation and behavior are as remote from
Nature as henna-dyed hair, are clever,
and their grown-up substitutes carry on
the fairy-tale just as capably. Miss
Jewell has a part that suits her to a T,
and old-timers such as Harry Carey and
Dudley Digges fit comfortably into
the picture. At Sydney Prince Edward.
“The End of the Road.”
JOHN MacGREGOR, TROUPER,
Harry Lauder
The rest of the cast are practically un-
known to Australian audiences. Some
of them played parts in that very appeal-
ing little Scottish comedy-drama “Wed-
ding Group.” Their accents are authen-
tic, whether Scottish or Cockney, and
they can act. But the best actor of the
lot of them is Lauder.
The story is somewhat on the lines of
“The Good Companions,” but much
more homely. Lauder- runs one of those
family concert parties that are still fairly
frequently to be met with doing the.
smalls North of the Tweed. The old
man’s kind heart and his duty as a father
are often in conflict, but, save when
clowning on the stage, he’s always a dig-
nified figure.
The main attraction of the film to those
who appreciate Lauder (as this critic
emphatically does) is that it records some
of the singer’s most effective impersona-
tions, done with a tremendous gusto that'
isn’t captured by any of the gramo-
phone records, and polished and elab-
orated to a degree beyond that attempted
in Lauder’s stage performances within
this writer’s memory. This age is unique
in that it can record and preserve for
ever the achievements of the. actor and
the executive musician. Claims that a
man is “greater than Lenin” may be
allowed to pass, but if in some future
decade there arises a claim on behalf of
a “greater than Lauder,” a standard of
comparison won’t be lacking. The best
of Lauder is embalmed in the tin cans
that hold “The End of the Road.” At
Sydney Lyceum.
“Mystery Island.”
MANLY HERO Brian Abbot
HIS SWEETIE Jean Laidley
DETECTIVE-PARSON, George Doran
MURDERER, C. Moncrieff MacCallum
Paramount, in conjunction with Com-
monwealth Film Laboratories, made the
film, Capt. T. D. Bairnsfather suggested
the story and Harry Lauder wrote the
screen play. The locale is Lord Howe
Island, which is more Oceanic than Aus-
tralian in character, but nevertheless the
effort is called Australian.
Main weaknesses of the effort are the
story, the acting, the sound-recording and
the music. The photography is fair to
medium.
A steamer bound from Sydney to
Noumea has among its passengers a
French detective and his prisoner, a mur-
derer, whom he is taking back for trial.
Only the captain of the ship knows the
identity of detective and captive. When
the ship’s engines break down and pas-
sengers and crew are cast away on an
uninhabited island, the captain, suffering
from amnesia owing to a conk on the
nut, is unable to say which of the casta-
ways is the murderer. The detective
doesn’t know either. How that could be
there is no attempt to explain.
The detective (if he’s French, Harry
Lauder is Portuguese) pretends to be a
sanctimonious clergyman and spends his
time stirring up fights among the men.
Nellie Ferguson in her Coronation robes
in "It Isn’t Done.”
He knows the murderer is an expert at
the savate, and hopes to trap him into an
exhibition. At last he is successful.
The rest of it is mostly romantic pas-
sages between hero and sweetie. They
croon, with the usual full orchestral ac-
companiment, a ditty about “shade of
tree,” “mysteree” and “yeou and mee,”
the melody of which appears to derive
from the intentionally tripy old favorite
“No, No, a Thousand Times No.”
If such a production came off one of
Paramount’s Hollywood sets Adolph
Zukor would do something very drastic
about it. The opus is second string at
Sydney Prince Edward.
“Banjo on My Knee.”
OLD SHANTY-BOATER,
Walter Brennan
SON j oe i McCrea
SON’S WIFE Barbara Stanwyck
JEALOUS GOIL .. Katherine de Mille
PHILANDERING
PHOTOGRAPHER .. Walter Catlett
Deals with fisherfolk who live in
rickety houseboats on the Mississippi.
The yarn is a rambling, tangled one, in-
Frank Harvey in “It Isn’t Done."
eluding a supposed murder committed
by Mr. McCrea, an elopement with a
travelling photographer on the part of
Miss Stanwyck and a great deal of very
poor banjo-playing done by the elderly
Mr. Brennan. All ends happily.
Shanty-boaters are, it is premised, a
people apart, with ways of their own.
Even so Mr. Brennan’s representation of
an elder of the tribe is hard to swallow.
But Miss Stanwyck, wasted on submis-
sive, sentimental feminine roles, comes
into her own as a hot-tempered, high-
spirited fighter. McCrea is, as ever,
equable and reasonable but very deter-
mined, and the contest between the pair
gives an interesting dramatic flavor to the
proceedings. Catlett, whose lot it is to
be beaten up by everybody, and Miss de
Mille, who goes glooming around throw-
ing sand in the matrimonial gears, fill
unpopular roles with great efficiency. At
Sydney Plaza.
“More Than a Secretary.”
EFFICIENT SECRETARY
WITH SPECTACLES .. Jean Arthur
INEFFICIENT SECRETARY
WITH “IT” Dorothea Kent
THEIR BOSS George Brent
CONNOISSEUR OF
SECRETARIES .... Reginald Denny
GOOD-HEARTED
GORILLA Lionel Stander
There’s nothing very original about
this comedy, but it provides a lot of fun.
Brent is a strait-laced vegetarian health-
crank editing a monthly magazine, “Body
and Brain.” At intervals during the day
his staff has to perform physical jerks
with Stander as instructor. Immediately
on becoming the editor’s secretary Miss
Arthur revolutionises the magazine, trip-
ling its circulation. Never was there
such a secretary. But a loose-living
business pal of Brent’s, represented by
Mr. Denny, wants a berth for his far-
too-beautiful-and-affectionate secretary;
his wife is returning from Yurrup. Brent
takes the goil on, promoting Miss Arthur
to associate editor. Thenceforward Miss
Arthur runs the paper while Brent runs
around making whoopee with the new
secretary. So Miss Arthur quits and
goes back to a former job as teacher in
a commercial college. Then, of course.
Mr. Brent realises all he has lost, gets
rid of his temptation and attempts to
make amends. The process is difficult,
but of course all ends happily.
The comedy is well cast, and the dia-
logue is clever and at times mildly
naughty. At Sydney Plaza.


mm
mmm ............ ..j
m
Wti&M
m
fa
0A&
V\\' e
%
T
N\'n^
S
? for 6d„ 18 for ]/.
Cork Tipped or Plain
IDENTICAL WITH THE CIGARETTES
CHOSEN BY Mr. RICHARD CROOKS
w®
im
mm
ALSO BLACK AND WHITE FINE CUT
THE FINEST MONEY CAN BUY
“Hopalong Cassidy Returns.”
HOPALONG, MINUS HOP,
William Boyd
HIS YOUNG BROTHER,
William Janney
DANCE-HALL QUEEN, Evelyn Brent
PURE YOUNG GOIL .. Gail Sheridan
WHISKERED OLD-TIMER,
George Hayes
PRINCIPAL VILLAIN, Stephen Morris
People who don’t like horse-operas will
have only themselves to blame if they
let themselves in for this one. But it is
quite good of its genre. Before the arrival
of Cassidy the little mining village of
Monte Grande is a hell on earth, with
murders happening right and left and
the whole decent community terrorised
by the drunkards and gamblers who in-
fest the local saloon and dance-hall. Of
course Hopalong is more than a match
for this riff-raff. The dance-hall queen
falls in love with him and saves his life
when the principal villain shoots at him
with a rifle from an upstairs window.
The rest is a matter of wild gallops over
the mesa, of lightning draws, of tying-up
outlaws and pouring them into gaol.
The dance-hall queen, shot fatally by the
principal villain, dies in Hopalong’s arms
to slow music. “Kiss me, Cassidy,” she
falters, and the noble fellow does so,
his bright eye momentarily dimmed. A
touching finale. At Sydney Civic.
“Girl of the Ozarks.”
QUAINT KID Virgina Weidler
LAZY YOUNG EDITOR, Lief Erikson
HIS SWEETIE .... Elizabeth Rogers
GRANNY Henrietta Crosman
The young and the old share the
honors, such as they are, of this picture
of life in an isolated, narrow-minded
mountain community in Missouri. The
Weidler youngster is an orphan with a
wild, unfettered soul, and she is sorely
oppressed by scholastic and other authori-
ties, finally landing in the County Home.
Her old granny (inseparable from a
double-barrelled shotgun and an old
clay pipe) does her best for the young-
ster, but winds up in gaol. So it is up
to the lazy young editor to hurry up and
get married and adopt the child, which
he eventually does.
Like her distinguished contemporaries,
Shirley Temple and Jane Withers, little
Miss Weidler has long been absolved
from the job of portraying ordinary
childhood, and now has roles made for
her that involve swift transitions from a
mental age of two to a mental age of
45. So long as such performances con-
tribute to the gaiety of nations no serious
objections can be raised, but this film is
lugubrious, weepy and slow-moving to a
very trying extent. Visitors to the Civic,
Sydney, should take two pocket
hankerchers.
“Sing Me a Love Song.”
KLEPTOMANIAC .... Hugh Herbert
SHOPWALKER Walter Catlett
LIFT-ATTENDANT .... Al Jennings
CHAUFFEUR Nat Pendleton
HONEST WOIKING
GOILS Zasu Pitts, Patricia Ellis
PERSISTENT CROONER, James Melton
Characters in order of entertainment
value. As a matter of fact, the osten-
sible star is Mr. Melton, a broadfaced
youth who sings patter-songs or croons
on every possible or impossible occasion.
He’s the new owner of a big department
store, and to learn the business starts
work under another name in the music
department, where he occupies his time,
when not spellbinding the store’s entire
population with his marvellous voice
(which carries with it, everywhere it
goes, a full orchestral accompaniment),
in flirting with Miss Ellis.
At intervals in a relentless spate of
sloppy croonery Hugh Herbert does his
stuff as Hammershlag, the world’s most
daring shoplifter, a role right up his
alley. He follows it up with impersona-
tions of his two brothers and his aged
pop, and is funny all the way through.
Catlett’s shopwalker is good for a few
chuckles, and Jennings, Pendleton and
Pitts help to mitigate the depressing
character of the Melton-Ellis combina-
tion. At Sydney Capitol.
“White Hunter.”
EXILE Warner Baxter
WEALTHY LION-POTTER,
Wilfred Lawson
HIS DAUGHTER ...... June Lang
HIS SECOND WIFE .... Gail Patrick
When a man who, through the treach-
ery of another, is forced to flee his coun-
try and remain an exile for years has
his enemy delivered into his hands in
Darkest Africa, something seems bound
to happen. When the treacherous one’s
second wife, who was partly responsible
for the exile’s disgrace, accompanies the
treacherous one on the big-game hunt-
ing expedition of which the exile is
guide, tries unsuccessfully to coax a
flame from the ashes of her old romance
with the exile, the stage is set for what
the blurb sheet, terms “dripping passion.”
But in this opus it doesn’t work out that
way. Instead, the beautiful innocent
daughter of the treacherous one casts
mushy eyes on the he-man guide-hunter,
and when he rescues her from a leopard
and earns the humble gratitude of the
bad old man, r-r-revenge dissolves into
nothing and he folds the goil in his arms,
while her villainous father beats it back
to England to make tardy reparation.
Melodrama, but Warner Baxter saves it
from mediocrity. The rest of the cast
are fair to middling. At Sydney Capitol.
“We’re on the Jury.”
JUDGE Robert McWade
SOCIETY JUROR .. Helen Broderick
REALTY-SELLING JUROR,
Victor Moore
Tip-top satire on the mixed jury sys-
tem in American law courts, with various
types of juror drawn without mercy and
the solving of a murder mystery by a
socialite jurywoman who belies her nit-
witticisms and her gushings.
At first she is the lone advocate of
“not guilty” in the trial of a wife for
husband murder, intuition being her
“reason” in the face of damning evi-
dence. By playing on the vanities and
prejudices of fellow-jurors locked up for
the night, she swings the weight of
opinion her way. Climax comes when,
at her request, they visit the scene of the
crime, where the testing of her theory
leads to the arrest of the real murderer.
The film is remarkable for its good
character sketches. Robert McWade as
the long-suffering Judge, Helen Brod-
erick, and Victor Moore as a juror who
spends odd minutes making sentimental
speeches and frying to sell realty to his
fellow-jurors are the chief funmakers.
Philip Huston, Louise Latimer, Frank
Thomas and Billy Gilbert give solid
support. At Sydney Embassy.
STAGE SHOWS.
“Three for Luck.”
For the opening of its 1937 season
at St. James’s Hall the Sydney Players’
Club put on “Three for Luck,” by Mabel
Constanduros hardly a “repertory”
play, but bright entertainment.
Setting is the country home of a con-
tented English couple, the Howson
Hobbses. Husband Charles is an amiable
amateur gardener and sportsman ; wife
Helen a good-intentioned meddler who
rules Charles with feminine guile. A
flock of visitors arrives, throwing the
household into turmoil —Lulu, a flirta-
tious film star; Hilary, her pompous,
jealous husband ; Aunt Kate, a non-stop
gossip ; Nancy, an ingenue; Michael, a
modernist poet; Joan, romantic and
sophisticated in equal parts; Derek, a
brainless tennis champion. Hilary’s dis-
trust takes a queer turn. Imagining that
Lulu is habitually unfaithful, he lives in
a state of mental torture, disappointed
because Lulu’s constancy cheats him out
of a scene. The obliging Helen plans to
satisfy his craving for melodrama by
staging, with Lulu’s consent, a mock love
scene between Lulu and one of the un-
suspecting other males. The plan mis-
carries, placing the schemers and the
supposedly least amorous gentleman in
awkward positions; but differences are
adjusted over coffee and rolls on the
morning after. In the meantime the
younger generation become involved in
a tangle of separations, fresh alliances
and reconciliations. All’s well, however,
at the curtain-fall.
The play moves smoothly from point
to point with excellent dovetailing of
cleverly-contrived and hilarious situa-
tions. There are laughs every few lines
and some shrewd tilts at modern foibles.
The comedy deserved slightly better
handling. There were awkward pauses,
an occasional air of stiltedness, and a
few players were too conscious of the
audience. The naturalness of William
Wines (Charles), the confident loquacity
of Myra Leard (Aunt Kate), the engag-
ing joyousness of Muriel Steinbeck (Lulu)
and the polished ease of Leonard Bullen
(Michael) were the best performances.
It was sad to hear that experienced
player Alice D. Gould (Helen) resort-
ing to the stage trick of stressing lines
where laughs were expected to follow
and pausing for the result. Edward Jack-
son (Hilary) overplayed his part; Marie
O’Brien (Joan), despite a ragged start,
finished up in fine style and gave promise
of still better things in future. Gwen
Sherwood produced the show.
CURRENT ARTBURSTS.
Paintings by Perry Pupils.
At Macquarie Galleries, Sydney, 13
past and present students of the Adelaide
Perry School show specimens of their
work. The school appears to be an ex-
cellent one, for its graduates keep their
colors clean, are able to draw correctly
and know the rules of composition and
of harmony of line and color.
The good drawing is evident in such
black-and-white lino-cuts as are shown
by Vera Blackburn, Muriel Cornish,
Lisette Kohlhagen and Muriel Foote.
Lino-cuts in color are shown by Paul
Haefliger (his impression of Townsville
in pastel tones has the charm of sim-
plicity and sincerity) and by Harry
Swain, who gets a nice decorative effect
in “November Lilies.”
There are soundly and sincerely done
still-lifes by Betty Arnott (there is some
very clever painting of glassware in her
“Green Bananas”), Kathleen Jones (her
“Geraniums” is the gayest, prettiest thing
iri the show and her study of pears is a
nice piece of quiet, soft brushwork),
Muriel Foote and Margaret Beatty.
Such landscapes as are shown, in oil
or water-color, are mostly quick sketches,
but they get the. effect aimed at. Harold
Huntley’s “Spring Poplars” is especially
successful.
But the star performer, in this critic’s
estimation, is Eileen Vaughan, whose
panel of eight pictures, embracing still-
lifes and landscapes, in oils and water-
color, are an epitome of the good points
of the Adelaide Perry school. All are
firm in touch, clean in color, graceful in
composition and pleasantly harmonious.


■teS
to
*£H
Whether your visit to Sydney
be business or social—stay at
the Wentworth. This fine hotel
offers you everything; comfort,
service, convenience. You will
enjoy your stay at the Went-
worth; wire or write for reser-
vations. Room and Breakfast,
12/6; Inclusive, 18/-.
WENTWORTH
HOTEL
SYDNEY.’PHONE BW 1361
CD.MACLURCAN MNG. DIRECTOR
Corns Sentenced to Death.
Corns have worried you—now worry them:
although “worry” is hardly the word, for
A’CORN SILK does not trifle with corns, but
ruthlessly kills them. How comfortable your
feet feel af;er A’CORN SILK has remove,
all your soft or hard corns —a 6d. packet will
do this for you without pain or inconvenience.
Corns are killed while you sleep —a matter ot
a few hours. Chemists sell A’CORN SILK at
6d. per packet. Packed by Felton, Grimwaae
and Duerdins, Ltd., Melbourne.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
The Ceramic brought contralto Essie
Ackland back to Sydney after an absence
of 12 years. Essie has made a career
for herself as a singer of oratorio and
ballads —“songs with a message” she
calls them. Soon after going abroad the
Mosman girl married Reginald Mor-
phew, who is also an Australian singer,
and the two were side by side on the
deck of the Ceramic when a group of
singers, under the direction of Miss Ack-
land’s old teachers, Roland Foster and
Emily Marks, greeted her with the song
“Coming Home.”
In the afternoon the A.B.C. wel-
comed her at the Australia with speech
and flowers and cocktails. The guest
of honor was slimly tall in a long after-
noon frock. It was black, its bodice end-
ing in a basque, its crossover effect out-
lined in white. A.B.C.’s chairman Cleary
being absent, Commissioner Orchard
uttered the laudations, crowning his
sentiments with a stately sheaf of
gladioli. The Gloucester room was
crowded with Sydney’s musical world.
Mrs. Cleary talked to Mrs. Bainton and
singer Marie Brown. Emily Marks and
Roland Foster wore beaming smiles.
Thelma Houston was there; so were
the De Cairos Regos, just back from
holiday in Melbourne; so were Essie’s
proud parents. Mr. Orchard won a
round of applause when he announced
that the Sydney contralto’s records had
a demand second only to Peter Daw-
son’s.
Australian film actress Tempe Pigott,
who left for Hollywood on the Mon-
terey, was emphatic about the American
talkie director keeping an eagle look-
out for types that tell the story in facial
expression. He doesn’t care much
whether the type has had previous ex-
perience or not, but would rather it had
not. Hollywood likes to train its own.
Miss Pigott, who’s a Queenslander, stayed
in Sydney with cousins—Miss M. Hort
Brown and her sisters of Darling Point.
; One of the girls at Anthony Horderns’
autumn fashion tea wore in her hair
what at first glance looked like the for-
bidden osprey. This expensive effect
was got from lacquered horsehair. The
top piece finished off a frock that was
black velvet as to trailing skirt and black
satin in its backless top, the satin sweep-
ing out into a peacock-tail effect that
spread into quite a train. Another head-
dress that caught the eye showed two
blackbirds perched on a black velvet
band. The wearer wore soft black
taffeta appliqued with velvet leaves.
Jewelled belts, shoulder scarves, and white
gilets with black spots smartening black
afternoon walkabouts were notable points
in this dress parade, which closely packed
the Trocadero. Argus, a handkerchief
binding his eyes, was part of last Friday's
entertainment, telling tea-drinkers the
color of the stones in their rings; the
numbers of their lottery tickets and the
dates on which they would start their
travels.
Mrs. Bainton, wife of the Conserva-
torium director, will sail very soon for
England, where the North and her rela-
tions will see more of her than the
South. Up till last week she was busy
hunting for the ideal flat in which to
store her family until her return. She
had decided that the North Shore-line
home was too far away from the Con-
servatorium until there was a mother to
guide it again. The new flat is at Point
Piper.
The great white puffs of her sleeves
seemed to waft Essie Ackland into the
Carlton, where a reception raged in her
honor. This was on Saturday night, and
the Musical Association had to close its
list days before. Over 250 applications
for cards had to be turned down. The
contralto’s frock caused a stir. Its long
black satin skirt was topped by a bodice
of white that commenced in a short
basque at' the front and then flowed out
into a swallow-tail. It was backless and
had a dropped shoulder line from which
the sleeves swelled into great puffs to
the elbows and then were fitting to the
wrist. President Mrs. Hope Gibson, in
gaily-flowered black chiffons, Mrs.
Harold Bott', vivid in burgundy taffeta
and lace, Miss Elizabeth Plummer,
Thelma Houston and Mrs. Faunce All-
mann were among the night’s importants ;
so were the singer’s mother, father and
husband, Reg Morphew. Roland Foster
and Emily Marks beamed over their
former pupil. Mrs. Stephen Herford,
Madeleine Clarke (concert manager for
the A.8.C.), Miriam Hyde, in black,
Hazel King, in skyey blues, and the Con-
servatorium Baintons and Jack Griffiths
were among the glimpsed.
Nora Mack sings farewell to Sydney
on March 18. She goes off to Paris,
and under Daphne Deane’s wing hopes
soon to be hatched a successful song-
bird in that city. Nora, whose parents
are the E. H. Macks, of Mosman, is a
niece of the three talented sisters Amy
and Gertrude and the late Louise Mack.
She has already sung small parts, such
as Frasquita in “Carmen” and the High
Priestess in “Aida.” That was with the
1932 opera co. She also created in
Sydney the part of Mary in “Hugh the
Drover,” and has appeared in “The Mar-
riage of Figaro” and “Euryanthe.” The
Alexander Gordon lady is patron of
Nora’s recital, Mrs. Florence Taylor
president and Roland Foster organiser.
Photograph from Freeman.
Last Saturday night all lights were on
in the Burlakov-Lightfoot studio, where
la grand farewell to Mischa Burlakov and
Louise Lightfoot was in progress. These
two principals of the well-known ballet
school are off to Europe to seek the
latest expressions of their art. The enter-
tainment of the evening, directed by
Louise Lightfoot, very graceful in del-
phinium-blue chiffons, blue daisies in her
hair, was a display of the technique of
the ballet from it's earliest movements to
the fouettes and entrechats of the com-
plete ballerina, students going through
the programme in their practice togs.
The rooms were crowded with mothers
and fathers watching their young. Bertie
Kelly, who brought Mrs. Kelly, handed
out the certificates won in the Cecchetti
examinations. While the two principals
are away Moya Beaver will be in charge
of the school. The travellers leave on
March 20, and will visit Monte Carlo,
Milan, Paris and London.
Saturday night’s sharp spatters of rain
did not keep admirers of the Players’
Club away from St. James’s Hall. The
play, “Three for Luck,” was written by
a woman, and her intimate knowledge
of the sex stabs and flickers in every sen-
tence of the brisk and pertinent dia-
logue. It’s a curious fact that women
writers are always more apt in holding
feminine foibles up to laughter than men
are in the showing up of male weak-
nesses.
Twenty-one years ago a band of young
girls formed the Clerical Women War
Workers. Through all the years this
group has carried on the good work.
Now their efforts are mostly directed
towards helping the men in Randwick
Military Hospital. To raise funds Ruby
Coxhead last Monday arranged a cock-
tail party with a difference. The scene
of this was the Rhine Castle cellars, which
are in the style of an old coaching inn.
The C.W.W.Ws. were on a good wicket,
as the management did their bit for the
cause by giving the drinks.
Instead of the usual lunch, the Inter-
national Club made merry at a five-to-
seven in the rooms of the Overseas
League. The Internationals have a new
president since the last annual meeting.
Benjamin Fuller is now in the chair.
But he was not at last week’s party, busi-
ness having lured him to Melbourne. His
wife, however, was there, and had a
blithesome group about her. There were
many overseas guests, and Leo Buring,
just returned from Europe, spoke of Ger-
many. He and his wife, who accom-
panied him on his travels, still marvel
over the organisation of the Olympic
Games. The visitors from Sydney were
at the opening, and in spite of the thou-
sands present experienced no difficulty
in finding their places. No one was
allowed to stand. There was no diffi-
culty about meals. Every ticket-holder
had a place reserved for him in one of
the many restaurants on the grounds.
Each place at table had a number corre-
sponding to that on the ticket for the
stands. At the International Club party
the Snowden lady received the guests,
among whom were the Keithleys, from
Yorkshire, who are building a house at
Bowral.
This Letter must crack a parting
streamer with Sister Elizabeth Kearey,
who goes off on the 16th to represent
N. S. Wales army nurses at the Corona-
tion. Sister Kearey enlisted in 1914 and
has been in the A.N.S. ever since. After
her return from war service in Egypt,
France and England she joined the staff
of the Prince of Wales Hospital at Rand-
wick. That was in 1919. Her Digger
patients gave her a great send-off, when
all of them who were able mustered in
the Red Cross recreation hall to see
Colonel Rutledge hand over the cabin
trunk, rug and handbag in the buying of
which they had all had a share. Sister
Kearey will march in the Coronation
procession. After the celebrations she
will join other army nurses in a tour
which will include a visit to the battle-
fields.
Betty Balfe, one of Sydney’s prettiest
girls, will be a very youthful bride when
she becomes Mrs. Henry Lawrence
Osborne on Thursday. The wedding is
timed for the afternoon, and St.
Michael’s, Vaucluse, will hear the bless-
ing. Betty is the only daughter of the
J. W. Balfes, of Double Bay, her bride-
groom the. only son of the Steenie
Osbornes, of Adaminaby. The photo-
graph is from Falk.
This week Howard Buchanan, inspector
of the E., S. and A. Bank, and his
sparkling helpmeet go up the Orontes
gangway with luggage labelled “London.”
At Hobart they will go ashore to see
daughter Margaret, who recently mar-
ried Alan Knight, one of the Speck’s
rising young engineers—the Government'
accepted his design for the new bridge
across the Derwent.
The founder and moving spirit of the
Women’s Pioneer Society, Carlotta
Doyle, proposes to retire from the office
of secretary after the anniversary cele-
brations next year. It is 10 years since
Carlotta conceived the idea of a club for
women pioneers, the dream coming to
fruition in the club’s pleasant home in
Macquarie-street. The Pioneers’ Ball,
which will be held on the first Friday of
the celebrations, is to be a most spec-
tacular event. For it the women are
joining forces with the men’s club, and
a joint committee, comprising Guy Blax-
land, M. Johnson, F. Walton, Mrs. W. A.
Lingham (president), Carlotta Doyle and
Jeanie Ranken are holding preliminary
meetings. The co-presidents of the
Pioneers’ Ball will be knight Kelso King
and Mrs. Lingham, presidents of the
men’s and women’s societies respectively.
Sydney women, considering the short-
ness of a winter which in many lands
would be regarded as a pleasant summer,
are great buyers of furs. Autumn will
give them a chance to fairly revel in
luxury pelts. This Letter, buying a yard
of bunny the other day, was informed by
her furrier that silver fox would be
1937’s most popular, sable its most
fashionable. This sable is sold in stoles,
three and four strands in width. It acts
on the complexion as the cocktail on the
drooping spirits. It’s when you come
to the price tag that blood pressure banks
up. The best fur coats have flat, turned-
back collars, are made swagger and have
a fulness that permits of their being
wrapped over the knees at the midwinter
Town Hall concert.
The vogue for the fur cape is irresist-
ible. Every woman with cash or credit
will buy one to go with her woollen
frock or tunic suit. These are mostly
waist-length, fall straight and fit snugly
on the shoulders. They are of kolinsky,
edged with tails, of summer ermine, of
dyed squirrel or of natural squirrel of
silvery sheen. There was a waist-length
coat of squirrel. This had cape sleeves
and two satin soft ends that tied in a
provocative chin knot. Another fitted
to the shoulders, but sprang away into
an upstanding collar lined with the white
of the little nut-gatherer. If your face
is still worth framing, it’s a good style
for you.
While Sydney is getting all purry over
Persian lamb, there isn’t a collar or cuff
of possum on view. Can’t Australian
women have them? Or is it that, being
home-grown, they aren’t given the favor
shown to the overseas fauna? The pos-
sum topcoat pops up every now and then
in New York fashion notes. The fur-
coats that Sydney streets will see most
of this winter will be musquash, kolin-
sky, dyed ermine and squirrel. But
doubtless a few bunnies will take the air.
Long before the day of her recital
the Con. was booked out for Hazel
King’s re-entry to Sydney’s singing
world. All the money went to C.W.A.
outback hospitals, and naturally C.W.A.
members were thickly sprinkled among
the audience. Mrs. Hubert Fairfax,
president of the committee, received the
official group, having bought all the
tickets for that group herself. Lieu-
tenant-Governor Philip Street’s wife, the
Conservatorium Baintons and 20 or
more others were among the mighty.
Dr. and Mrs. Wilfred Fairfax were
seated near by; so was Miss Elizabeth
Plummer (treasurer) and Mrs. Harold
Bott (secretary). Mr. and Mrs. Bott en-
tertained a party of great numbers. Mrs.
Bott’s tunic was of sparkling lame, her
skirt a trained affair of black satin.
The singer wore the soft crispness of
white taffeta, and sang her opening group
of Purcell, Handel and Bach with the
freshness of an English spring. Post-
Bach lieder and the moderns were
sung equally well. Mildred Hill and
Nora Williamson were a pictorial duo
playing their Brahms sonata. Mildred’s
smooth, dark head and ivory tints were
in contrast to her satin and net frock of
midnight blue. Nora, playing her violin,
was almost a classic figure in the sculped
lines of her thick white crepe frock.
With £9O netted on the first day,
Animal Week should result in bones for
all. Friday saw the R.S.P.C.A. shop a
whirl of activity. Amiable dogs came in
smiling their willingness to carry the
collection-boxes. Bobs, the celebrated
Darlinghurst bachelor, was one of them.
His good temper remained unruffled
even by a visit' to the photographer and
the usual request to look pleasant.
Poetess Ivy Moore, who is expert in
languages, is to be the librarian of the
French Alliance. Mrs. Moore is already
widely known and very popular among
Sydney’s French community. She is look-
ing forward to her appointment with
great interest. Dorothy Tremlett, the
present librarian, goes off to a job in
Melbourne. In addition to being a
French scholar Dorothy has a sweet and
fresh soprano voice that is sometimes
raised in broadcast.


XOTgjKHR
I
m
0
0
m
%
m
yjmvstrtis Mt
W.
mim
i
It was strange
HOW AN ACCIDENT TO
MRS M'S SMALL SON LED
TO MY HELPING HER
AS WELL. SHE WASN'T
A PATIENT OF MINE
BUT MY WIFE HAD
MET HER AT A
BRIDGE PARTY. AND I
OFTEN SAW HER
SMALL SON PLAYING
IN THEIR GARDEN.
WHICH IS JUST NEAR
TO OURS...
\
c
“ 11,
y ' <
A objected UTTL£ \
aacs m seems lately/
at Mi/
9 ,„» SHE'S sww W-
STALL
s?
ZAAR
mother
little soy
: MADE THE
SHE
the
OF
has
nho
the
IN
s #ING
ROE
SHE
S N
W'c'S OHtf A BIT
ak£ tr I TWNK-
S %,»iruesuw
CO U?«- u * ve A '
ath,m -
twtrjk
'
t; : :<rtr
'Mm*.
N e£D"' T
f OH. W SO f
glad/
iXZovj i-r%
nil* / J3 roo TIRED
we<?vy
T o R aCE
tfORE
vjORRV
aHD
V
•at
■
/r lOOKS TO ME AS IF
wA/l B SUETERING FROM
w,^- sM '" r,o ~ f M
r A AE Explain have 1
i£ Lee thought £,
■'Ziou^ uP
V£„ai £«~ «»'“
6 n;f p9lf rw,j
*>“ 1 ,s«o'
<*/*«<>«
,% ruEN of
k l ' co^ SE ,0O „
T "f
iA° RfJI J
&
%£i
J
I
k
m
NEXT DAY
MORNING
GOOD
SEEN
JUST
v£
pocro«
ri
q BUCK'S
rw£
iy lN&
ENDED
IT'S T " £ r
Jest tu< nG
s > ™
y dir
e'<s*
BU
BE
you
>
V !
n
TWO MONTHS LATER 1
P . TEU you MRS m Nc|^: : v r
TO H £lP US far
• S r U ""S jS,4
CL !N ,( -
ON
BAB*
W.
M&
that,
pO*
qEAP
MV
m
m
So many mothers feel as Mrs. M. did—worn out, wretched,
depressed. They, too, are suffering from “Night-Starvation.”
As the Doctor explained, we use up energy even while we
sleep—with breathing and other automatic actions. And if
this energy is not replaced as it is used up, we wake tired,
“Night-Starved.”
Horlick’s taken regularly at bedtime prevents “Night-
Starvation” —restores energy as it is used up.
You will love its intriguing flavor. It is eco-
nomical, too, for the milk is in Horlick’s. Add
water only. All chemists and grocers sell
Horlick’s.
HORLICKS GUARDS AGAINST
NIGHT-STARVATION ■■
a
ftorliti
Mix*
©
rH| fo«?un **•*
;x»/
THIS MEANS YOU SLEEP SOUNDLY.
WAKE REFRESHED, AND HAVE
EXTRA ENERGY ALL DAY.


Bartz—-Salts of the Earth
Drugs are only a temporary relief, but BARTZ,
the IMPROVED MINERAL SPRING TONIC
SALTS, is Nature’s own remedy for excessive
fat, headache, rheumatic pains, sleeplessness,
giddiness, high blood pressure, constipation, etc.
Obtainable all Chemists and Stores, price 6d.,
t/- and 2/-. Sole distributors,
British Colonial & Eastern Chemicals, JLtd.,
65-69 York Street, Sydney. ’Phone: 8W6661.
EVERY HUSBAND A SCREEN LOVER!
How This Domestic Miracle Can Be Accomplished.
See March 16 issue of
AUSTRALIAN
WOMAN’S MIRROR
68 Pages of Bright Reading for 3d. On Sale Friday.
MAKING THE MOST OF THE WINTER,
Woollens, Suede, Pigskin and Storm-cloth.
KNITTED DRESS FOR A GIRL OF THREE
THE WIND AND THE SUN,
A Beauty Talk About Autumn Skin Preparation.
FREE PATTERN OF ROMPERS FOR
THE ONE- TO TWO-YEAR-OLD
Melbourne
Chatter
Furs, tweeds, flared coats, high-
crowned felt hats and snappy caps with
veils wisping behind them went to the
Australian Cup, which was run under grey
skies with a chilly wind nipping round
the corners of the stand. Mrs. Dal Mein
mixed her botanical accessories—tea-
roses at her throat and white violets on
top of her guardsman’s hat. Precautions
against rain were taken by Valerie
Purves, in a coin-spotted cellophane mac,,
by Mrs. Daryl Best, whose cherry-colored
waterproof went over a lightweight wool
frock, and by Anne McAuley, in a blue
suede suit. From the peak of her
feather-mounted cap to the hem of her
astrakhan-faced coat Faith Power was
in the green which threatens to be odds-
on favorite for winter. Mrs. Charles
Strong wore three silver foxes with her
tailored suit. Mrs. Clive Eadie’s ruby
toque and Mrs. E. L. Newbigin’s navy
hat were noticed turned upwards towards
the tote just before the big race. Mrs.
R. Woolcott wore grey tweeds, and her
husband, Surgeon-Commander Wool-
cott, adopted the prevailing men’s
fashion of moss-green pork-pie hats.
Government House aides Captain Wil-
braham and Lieut. Robertson took the
opportunity of the Race Week gathering
to hold a late-afternoon party. The
guest list was composed mainly of
people who had entertained the two
young hosts, who, at their big party, stood
togetner just inside the door of the big
vice-regal drawing-room and when they
saw particular friends hovering over the
horizon waived formality by anticipating
the butler’s announcements. It was a
warmish evening, and the overflow among
guests found its way to the fountain lawn
and verandah, where there was another
buffet.
Lord Huntingfield, with knight Win-
ston and Lady Dugan, called in at the
party, and Col. and Mrs. Pott made
longer visits. Noticed in the crowd were
Admiral Hyde and his wife, she in a
graceful frock of tree-bark brown with
no hat’ to flatten the little curls piled
over the top of her head. Elizabeth
Darling was in navy blue, and Rosemary
Downes in the paler shade of blue that
suits her so well. “Gubby” Allen and
Ken Fames were in merry mood. Lor-
raine Cumming was in navy and white;
Vaire Wilkinson in figured crepe, with
hex handbag swinging by a long strap
over her shoulder. Lynette Walkley was
in powder-blue frock and diminutive
jacket; Mary Guy-Smith in a grey suit
and a hat' a replica of a man’s bowler.
Present also were a newly-married couple
who leave for India at the end of the
month, the E. G. Farquharsons, the
bride wearing an air-force-blue coat, with
skunk collar, flared hem and nipped-in
waist. Captain and Mrs. P. E. Phillips
said many good-byes. Their term of
naval exchange being completed, they
are sailing shortly for England.
The English cricketers need not have
had doubts about getting a gallery for
the Dismal Finish. Visions of unin-
habited stands dissipated in the early-
morning mist when the first spectators
of the 12,000 queued up at the gates.
Many had got so into the habit of tak-
ing lunch that they made yet another
picnic day of the two swipes and two
catches, then cheers and a surging mass
of people jumping the picket fence and
swarming over the oval and a crush
round the dressing-rooms. Among spec-
tators who were seen on one or more
days were Mrs. C. E. Dolling, of Adel-
aide ; the Jim Russells, who have fol-
lowed several Tests from State to State ;
George Miles, of the north-west of West-
ralia (his 20-odd stone was accommo-
dated in the members’ reserve); Mrs.
A. B. Sanders and Betty Triado, an en-
thusiast who never misses even a Shield
match.
Last week it was off with the cricket
and on with the polo. On the same day
that stumps were grabbed by players and
the M.C.G. pitch torn to bits by sou-
venir hunters Moonee Valley racecourse
vibrated with the thudding hoofs of
galloping ponies. Among polo spectators
were fashionable people who enjoyed a
day in the open air, country folk who
watched the game critically and groups
of feminine youth who attempted to
study the programme, gave it up with a
sigh and spent an afternoon of content-
ment in which polo did not interfere
with gossip.
Among early matches of interest were
those in which Mt. Crawford (S.A.) de-
feated Melbourne Hunt' “A” and Cara-
mut defeated Adelaide. In the afternoon
the sight of Melbourne Hunt “C” being
trampled beneath the hoofs of Hexham
didn’t cause all spectators to rise from
their picnic baskets or leave refreshers
at the bush shed bar, for the match was
anything but good polo. Some of the
men were puffing and blowing harder
than their ponies. One young woman,
watching from her car, said the game
reminded her of a photograph of her
father and some of the troops playing
polo in Egypt' during the war, on donkies,
with walking-sticks.
Among those present on the opening
day were the J. I. Winter-Irvings and
Colonel and Mrs. G. H. Knox. Phyllis
Bray, wearing white brogues with her
floral frock, was busy between chukkas
holding bridles and polo-sticks. Claudia
and Valerie, Palmer rode beautifully as
linesmen. A trio that moved about to-
gether were Mrs. Ronnie Macpherson, in
check-patterned linen, Mrs. Snowy
Russell, wearing a vivid shade of scarlet,
and Mrs. Alan Smith, whose pink hat
was noticeable for its skyscraper bow of
stiff navy ribbon. Finding herself in the
wrong clothes (a grey tweed suit) for a
hot afternoon, Mrs. Hamilton Sleigh re-
moved her coat to reveal a blouse to
match her lemon-colored shoes. June.
Russell, whose finger is adorned by Ted
Cunningham’s engagement ring, was in
white linen. Mrs. Bill Hargreave looked
cool in her floral frock, Elaine Knox-
Knight combated the sun in a brown hat
and navy spots on a pink ground, and
Mrs. Sid Plowman, in blue, sheltered
beneath a red hat. Beth Campbell, who
watched the play through coral-rimmed
sunglasses, shared picnic tea with the
Bradford girls.
Representing Victoria in the Returned
Army Nurses’ Contingent leaving for the
Coronation in the Orontes on the 16th
is Sister Ann Elizabeth Dowsley. Sister
Dowsley, who since 1932 has been prin-
cipal matron of the Australian Army
Nursing Service, Third Military District,
is particularly excited about the trip
ahead of her, for she has never been to
England. During the war her work was
in India and the Persian Gulf. Unlike
the male contingent, whose members
must wear uniform from the time they
left Australia till their return, the nurses
will appear only at official functions in
their grey tailored suits, with cream
blouses and brown ties matching the
bands on their grey hats.
For the last ten years Sister Dowsley
has worked in the glistening white sur-
gery on the third floor of the Spencer-
street G.P.0., where she assists the Fed-
eral Medical Officer, Dr. Frank Kerr.
This department deals with the health of
Federal employees who are attached to
such offices as the P.M.G.’s, Defence,
Treasury, Health, Attorney-General’s,
Commonwealth Public Service Board,
Commonwealth Railways, etc. On an
average 800 cases are examined every
month. Sister Dowsley’s portrait is by
Broothorn.
Crowded into a few days of cricket,
races and polo were heaps of private
parties. So thick were teas, cocktail
parties, luncheons and dinners that the
same people, meeting so often, ceased by
the end of the week to greet one another.
One of the late-afternoon parties was
given at No. 9 by Mrs. Harold Brookes
as a welcome to daughters Margaret and
Libby. There, cocktails were banished in
favor of very long fruity thirst-quenchers,
kegs of beer and an oyster bar. A recep-
tion at a similar hour was held by
General and Mrs. Lavarack, who enter-
tained at their home in Alma-road in
honor of the Harry Chauvels, who leave
this week for the Coronation. General
Chauvel is making an official trip ; he is
leader of the Coronation contingent, but
doesn’t travel with it.
Among dances of the week given in
private houses were Mrs. Harry Cres-
wick’s party for daughter Sheila and
Susan Hammond’s dance at Coonac. At
No. 9 Mrs. James Burston entertained
for a cluster of her grandchildren—
Judith and Peggy, daughters of the
Stanley Burstons, Betty Burston, of
Adelaide, and Mollie and Ibel Murray
and their brother, whose mother, Mrs.
J. H. Murray, helped the young hostesses
receive their guests.
A big cocktail party was given at Men-
zies by the Thomas de Pledges and their
daughters, of Yanrey, Onslow (W.A.).
G.H. was strongly represented at this
function, for Maude and Pat have often
been guests at the vice-regal residence
and enclosure at the races.
In the Broothorn portrait is Col. and
Mrs. Tom Slaney’s daughter Beverley,
who has recently returned from three
and a half months’ tour of India and
Ceylon with La Meri. The little co.,
consisting of Madame, her husband,
Beverley and an electrician, visited many
parts of Southern India, where no
dancers but those of the country had ever
been seen before. Thus Madame and
her young assistant, who danced solo as
well as taking part in numbers a deux,
were able to study native dances that
were unaffected by modern and tourist
influences. Miss Slaney found that the
audiences, consisting of both Europeans
and Indians, were most appreciative, the
Indian onlookers being particularly re-
sponsive, for the art of dancing is born
in them. Because of the difficulty of
procuring pianos, recitals throughout the
tour were given to gramophone record-
ings. Beverley, who is slim, very tall
and only 17, brought back several
beautiful saris with her. She can’t make
up her mind whether to have them made
into gowns or, having learnt the knack of
wrapping them, to attire, herself in Indian
fashion for the evening. She has no
definite plans about her future as a
dancer, but is content for the present to
enjoy a holiday after her strenuous tour.
R. G. Menzies opened Septimus
Power’s exhibition by announcing that
he knew nothing about art. Present were
Mrs. Sep Power, a bride of last year,
whose portrait in profile was exhibited.
She was accompanied by Mrs. Eric Turn-
bull, whose sky-blue frock deepened into
navy pipings. Mrs. Lindsay Field, of
Warbreccan, Deniliquin, inspected the
pictures with Mrs. “Billy” Williams, who
is now the proud possessor of a grand-
son—her daughter Ainslie married Ben
Barwood and lives in Sydney. The
director of the National Gallery toured
the room with Mrs. Jimmy MacDonald
and John Longstaff. Mrs. George Guth-
ridge’s linen suit, which buttoned all the
way down the front, was accompanied
by an embroidered blouse in a tone of
ripe lemon.
After living abroad for over 15 years
Australian artist Janet Cumbrae Stewart
has returned to Melbourne. Her plans
are at present indefinite, but she will be
here for some time, is at present staying
with her sister, Mrs. H. J. Francis, of
Brighton, and hopes to hold an exhibi-
tion later in the year. Miss Cumbrae
Stewart did very well abroad. Pastels are
her favorite medium, and she has an in-
ternational reputation for her skilful
treatment of nudes —one of her nudes in
pastels was bought by Queen Mary. The
artist has lived and painted in France
and Italy and speaks the languages of
both countries, but is modest about this
proficiency. On her journey to Aus-
tralia by the Meliskirk she picked up
some Dutch, but owing to rough seas did
no painting.
Professor and Mrs. Young (he is asso-
ciate-professor of bio-chemistry) have
returned from abroad with news of their
daughter, Dr. Sylvia Young, with whom
they stayed a month in Jerusalem. Dr.
Young was very popular here during her
student days, when she never seemed to
worry about exams., but absorbed lec-
tures without much trouble and had a
sure hand for surgery. Her job in
Palestine is in the British Medical Ser-
vice, and she was the first colonial
woman doctor to secure such a position.
The majority of her patients are Arab
women and children, for whom she has
established several medical clinics.
“G. 8.”: The old Standard Hotel build-
ing at the corner of Exhibition and Little
Collins streets, Melbourne, which was de-
licensed a few years ago, is now in the
hands of the wreckers. A tradition
lingers that Gordon and Kendall used to
meet there and discuss poetry in general
and their own in particular. They may
have foregathered there occasionally, but
the usual rendezvous of the literary
people of the day was at Nissen’s Cafe
in Bourke-street. Later a room was
secured next door to the old “Argus
office in Collins-street, and the founda-
tions laid of the Yorick Club.
*** „ *
“Ida D.”: The intoxicating properties
of some beverages, even the currant
wine of the Old Country (B. 17/2/’37),
depend largely on what kind of
receptacle the brew is housed in.
Though alcohol was officially for-
bidden on the estancia in Pata-
gonia where I once lived, our Belgian
cook was given permission to make the
innocuous che-cha (cider) from the wild
apples that grew in the camp. But after
the capitaz and others were seen leaving
the staff house kitchen well and truly
“blotto,” investigations showed that the
stuff had been allowed to mature in a
well-seasoned caha cask, which, as the
patrane expressed it, gave it “a kick like
the hind leg of a mule.” Cana is a
“whisky” made from sugarcane-


Thousands
of Letters
have been written to 6AM in
appreciation. Thousands and
thousands of listeners tune in
nightly to the Happy Station
of W.A. . . .
listeners from every corner of
the vast Golden West . . .
Potential customers!
6AM
Prince’s Chambers,
William Street,
Perth,
Western Australis?.
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
“Bull-ant Bill”: The world’s rummiest
sheep station is at Facing Island, oppo-
site Gladstone (Q.). A 130 ft. jetty runs
out from the woolshed door, and the clip
is taken direct to ship’s side at Glad-
stone by launch. There are no fences,
dingoes, burrs, blowflies or rabbits, and
no chance of any pest ever getting in.
There are no droughts, and if there were
it wouldn’t matter, because there’s an
inexhaustible supply of seaweed. When
dry, the sheep prefer it to grass, and its
rich iodine and mineral content renders
it particularly nutritious. Mustering is
a clean job, free from dust and flies.
Eagles, except the fish-eating kind, do
not favor the coast, and even Kelly the
Crow rarely visits Facing. The absence
of native birds and animals is one of the
peculiar features, although Curtis Island,
its nearest neighbor, harbors any
amount.
* * * *
“Bray Rock”: Bernie O’Reilly, the
smiling, red-topped bushman whose
brains and intrepidity rescued the two
survivors of the crashed Stinson in the
Lamington Plateau country, derives from
sound Australian mountain-pioneering
stock. Coming from some of the rough-
est of the Blue Mountain country 30 and
more years ago, his elder brothers and
a cousin took up country in the Macpher-
sons. Eventually they packed a sawmill
up in horseloads and built a comfortable
house for the whole family. Bernard
grew up there from a boy, and knew the
vast range from end to end before he
needed a razor. His mother, at over
70, walks the eight-mile steep track from
the road-end below in a 2000 ft. climb
whenever she goes to pay a call in the
low country. Her three daughters are
notable mountaineers, too. Last year
Rose O’Reilly, on an exploring walk with
Bernard, slipped on a 500 ft. precipice
and was caught on a ledge 30ft. down.
He was down nearly as quickly as she
fell, and carried her up. Australia could
do with lots more O’Reillys of their kind.
’f* ;J:
“Zedo”: The Residency at Darwin is
to have a new kitchen costing £6O0 —
more than the Deputy-Administrator’s
salary for a year. New civil service
quarters are to go up—£6soo. There are
to be about enough Government offices
to house an army corps. Police stations
at from £2300 to £2500 apiece are to dot
the remoter landscape. Darwin’s water
supply is to have £26,000 worth of work
done on it —say, £l6 10s. per head of
population, including Chinamen. And
£5OOO is to be spent on a wall for Fanny
Bay gaol. One ingredient is missing
from the dish-out —efficient government.
* * * *
“A.C.M.”: Longreach (C.Q.) is
troubled by the thought that soon head-
quarters of Qantas will go south to
Sydney. Fergus McMaster, the Queens-
land squatter who did so much to give
the organisation its kick-off, can only
add to the news by way of solace that
Brisbane will remain an important centre
in the company’s activities. The move
became inevitable when the flying-boat
service was approved.
* =:= * *
“X.T.”: At Darwin the other day a
citizen was charged with
that he did on January 20, without the
written- permission of the Chief Medical
Officer, have potato chips for sale in a
public place in Smith-street.
A local paper devoted four columns to
reporting the affair. An officer of the
Health Department swore that he caught
the defendant in the act of disposing of
his wares in an alleyway leading to the
local picture show. “He said to him
‘You are selling chips.’ The defendant
said ‘Yes.’ ” However, the Court, having
gravely reviewed the titles to the land on
which the chips were sold, decided that
it was not a public place ; and a police
constable admitted that he often bought
chipped potatoes from the vendor and
ate them without suffering any ill-effects,
and that he had “no personal and fas-
tidious objection to the sales taking place
under the circumstances obtaining.” In
his opinion, no reasonably-minded
person would object to sales under the
conditions. So the chip merchant walked
out of court without a stain on his
character. It’s a place of wild and
reckless doings, the North.
“East Point”: Dickens’s Circumlocu-
tion Office is not in the running when it
comes to the delivery of Northern Terri-
tory mail. After the rains the other day
mail dated Brisbane, Dec. 10, turned up
via Adelaide, whence it went by train
to Alice Springs, thence by car to
Birdum and on by train again to Dar-
win. During its six weeks’ progress, it
had encountered a sizable wet patch,
and when it arrived it looked like a bit
of last year’s tripe that had been soaked
in sea water and dried in front of a
cameleer’s mosquito fire. Most of the
addresses were in such condition that
Darwin G.P.O. officials turned to them
“There yare, Ma! Told y' Elsie Was good f'r another egg!”
as a welcome change from crossword
puzzles.
“Col. B.”: Out-west grog isn’t what
it used to be 50 years ago. On February
27, 1887, three bushmen wrecked the All
Nations Hotel at Barcaldine (W.Q.) with
their stirrup irons, smashing every win-
dow, lamp, bottle and bit of crockery in
the place, and chasing the pub staff to
shelter on the roof. After laying out an
interfering bobby—also with a stirrup
iron—the roisterers rode off pursued by
the remainder of the local police. Ten
miles out the forces of the law came up
with the quarry, and after a hot en-
counter captured all three. Brought back
to Barcaldine, they were chained to trees
until they sobered up. Last time I was
in Barcaldine claret and lemonade was
the favorite tipple of the lads from the
outside.
“Dubber”: Two of Queensland’s most
famous stations, Mt. Cornish and Well-
shot, were curiously so named—Well-
shot from a couple of well-shot black
ducks at a waterhole ; Mt. Cornish to
grant the dying wish of a man that the
place should be named after a bit of an
anthill which grandiloquently bore that
title. As big stations were resumed all
sorts of odd names figured on wool bales.
Peters, of Longreach, went in for odd
nomenclature for his bits of land—No
Name, No Go, Upshot. W. H. Camp-
bell started a fashion when he named his
selection Jaccondol —he had three chil-
dren, Jack, Connie, Dolly. Others fol-
lowed, including Jim Arthur’s Wineva,
after daughters Winnie and Eva, but
Tomjoemary gave that style the k.o.
When C. Avery bought Alroy (N.T.) —
his son Roy is now a leading lawyer in
Brisbane—he tried reversing his own
name, but Alroy was easier to say than
Yreva, and it stuck. For wit and cynical
appropriateness about the best of all
was the name bestowed on a bit of a
place near the Warrego —Upson Downs.
"Australia Jane's" Budget
East and West met in a dance drama
organised by the Younger Set, with
theme by Gwen Ricketts and dialogue
by John Christopher, staged at the
Princess Theatre for the Bush Children’s
Health Scheme. One of the most appeal-
ing dance numbers portrayed the usual
white-man-gone-native and lure of dark-
skinned sirens, with panther and witch-
doctor dances as highlights. Finale was
a cabaret scene in which a bunch of
pretty society girls and attendant swains
appeared. Mrs. Douglas Harris and Mrs.
A. E. Moore were organisers for the
sweet-selling.
Eunice Cochrane sprang a surprise on
Brisbane friends when she packed her
suitcases and announced that she was off
to Sydney and wedding bells. One John-
son, a bank manager, is the lucky man.
H. Brandon did a little eleventh-hour
scurrying and gathered a group of musi-
cal friends at his studio to farewell the
contralto. There was no music, but
Brisbane’s best-known musicians entered
with zest into a competition the Marx
Bros, might have invented. Then there
was a studio supper.
The girl freshers wore their ordinary
street frocks to the tea prior to the
matric. ceremony at the Uni. This year
the president is Elizabeth Stephens,
Sheila Thompson is secretary and Joan
Chadwick wrestles with the accounts.
Mrs. York Hedges, whose husband is a
prof., is patroness. She made a charm-
ing speech of welcome.
Mercy Griffin, the blind student who
recently passed the senior and was
granted a scholarship to the Uni., will
live at the University Women’s College,
a recent addition to the Stuartholme
Convent. She will take many of her sub-
jects in Braille. Only one Queensland
girl, Eileen Reimers, last year took the
medical course, but this year she will
have the support of Pam McLeod, who
has done two years in Sydney. Elizabeth
Cowan is the only girl doing agriculture,
but there are several doing law. Una
Bick, whose father is Curator of Bris-
Botanical Gardens, finishes this
year.
ifte A. Mulford Colebrooks, who are
leaving for America en route to Eng-
land, where the male partner will hold
down a job at the American Embassy,
had a most unusual farewelling. Seven
hostesses combined to provide a seven-
course dinner, one course of which was
eaten in each home, with a dash to
another suburb for each of the other
courses. The party began at Katherine
Cook’s home, where cocktails were,
served amid pink antigonon and mauve
lagerstreemia. Then the hostess nipped
into a dinner coat and joined the caval-
cade of cars en route to Mrs. H. G.
Trace’s home at Annerley, where the
consomme was waiting. Mrs. Teddie
Webster was third on the list, then Mrs.
Alex. Inglis, Mrs. H. H. Henchman,
Mrs. Perry Ross and Mrs. J. P. Rag-
land, who poured coffee and liqueurs.
There was a big turnout for the
Arthur A. Baynes Memorial Regatta,
staged by the B.G.S. Old Boys Rowing
Club, with a dance in the school
assembly hall afterwards. Mrs. S. D.
Tozer, wife of the patron, was with the
F. S. N. Bousfields at the regatta, and
in the evening, with the Carson-Coolings,
received the dancers.
The Students’ League, the Verse-
speaking Choir and the League of Inter-
national Relations, all of which claim
Marjorie Bulcock as a member, are
arranging pre-wedding teas for her.
Sisters of the Inky Way also are arrang-
ing something.
St. David was honored by his country-
men this year at a dinner at the Can-
berra, and the good saint must have been
surprised to see a woman occupying the
president’s chair—and a woman with a
Scottish name at that. Mrs. T. Stewart,
J.P., first woman to hold office as the
society’s president,
was born in Vic-
toria as Ellen
Thomas and reared
in a Welsh com-
munity. She is a
mine of information
on national tradition
and, like so many
Welshmen and
-women, a keen
musician. She was
a foundation mem-
ber of the Cambrian
Choir. A party of
women in Welsh
costume sang several
national songs, and
the Governor went
along to honor the
saint and his people.
Kitty Hillcoat has
resigned her job as
organising secretary
of the Creche and
Kindergarten Asso-
ciation ; she is
gathering up her
trousseau for her
marriage to Martin
Snelling. Mrs. Hilary Clifford, an Eng-
lishwoman who has been in Australia
for eight years, and has had personal
teaching experience in kindergartens, has
been appointed in her stead.
On the Monterey are two tragic
women returning to their homes in
America. Mrs. W. W. Fountain, whose
husband was killed when the Stinson
crashed, left by the Westralia with her
two children to join the ship for
America. Sailing on the'same boat with
her is Mrs. J. E. Kennebeck, whose hus-
band was killed in a motor accident in
Sydney recently. Not so long ago they
both came out from America with high
hopes.
Isabel Gustafson, a blind girl who took
advantage of the opportunities offered by
the Queensland Musical, Literary and
Self-aid Society for the Blind, has just
had a play accepted for presentation over
the air. She does her own typing.


Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 286 of 1937.
BETWEEN KATHLEEN VIENNE WIL-
LIAMS Petitioner
And JAMES ALBERT WILLIAMS Re-
spondent.
TO JAMES ALBERT WILLIAMS.
TAKE NOTICE that the said KATHLEEN
VIENNE WILLIAMS has commenced a suit
against you in this Court and is applying for a
dissolution of marriage on the grounds of
desertion without just cause or excuse for three
years and upwards AND TAKE NOTICE that
you are required to enter an appearance to the
said suit at the proper office of this Court
on or before the Twenty-fifth day of May 1937
and in the event of your not so doing within
the time limited or obtaining further time the
Petitioner will proceed and the suit be heard
and determined your absence notwithstanding.
A copy of the petition filed herein may be had
on application to the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this First day of March, 1937.
For the Registrar,
(1.5.) E. L. DICKSON,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
C. JOLLIE SMITH, Solicitor for the Peti-
tioner, 185 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF WESTERN
AUSTRALIA.
Divorce and
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 48 of 1937.
BETWEEN FRANCIS JOHN PINNOCK Peti-
tioner
And ALICE EDITH PINNOCK Respon-
dent.
TO ALICE EDITH PINNOCK late of 376
Albany Road Victoria Park in the State of
Western Australia married woman.
TAKE NOTICE that a citation bearing date
the Nineteenth day of February 1937 has been
issued out of the Supreme Court of Western
Australia in its divorce and matrimonial causes
jurisdiction citing you to appear and answer the
petition of FRANCIS JOHN PINNOCK of 376
Albany Road Victoria Park in the State of
Western Australia builder praying for a dissolu-
tion of marriage In default of your so appear-
ing you will not be allowed to address the Court
and the Court will proceed to hear the said
petition proved and pronounce sentence in re-
spect thereto AND TAKE FURTHER
NOTICE that for the purpose aforesaid you
are within forty-five days from the date of the
last publication of this notice to attend in
person or by your solicitor at the Central Office
of the said Supreme Court of Western Aus-
tralia at Perth and there to enter an appearance
in a book provided for that purpose.
(1.5.) T. F. DAVIES,
Registrar.
Nairn, McDonald & Ambrose, 69
St. George’s Terrace, Perth, Solicitors for the
Petitioner.
To be inserted once in each of the following
newspapers: Bulletin (Sydney, New South
Wales) and “Australasian” (Melbourne, Vic-
toria).
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 2111 of a.d. 1936.
BETWEEN ELLEN LUCY SMITH Petitioner
And GEORGE WILLIAM CHARLES
SMITH Respondent.
TO GEORGE WILLIAM CHARLES SMITH
late of Lithgow in the State of New South
Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said ELLEN LUCY
SMITH has commenced a suit against you in
this Honorable Court and is applying for a dis-
solution of marriage on the grounds of desertion
for three years without just cause or excuse
AND TAKE NOTICE that you are required to
enter an appearance to the said suit at the
proper office of this Honorable Court on or
before the Eighteenth day of May One thou-
sand nine hundred and thirty-seven and in the
event of your not doing so within the time
limited or obtaining further time the Petitioner
will proceed and the suit be heard and deter-
mined your absence notwithstanding. A copy
of the petition filed herein may be had on
application to the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this Nineteenth day of February,
a.d. 1937.
For the Registrar,
(1.5.) E. L. DICKSON,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
J. G. MOFFATT, Solicitor for the Petitioner,
119 Phillip Street, Sydney.
Personal and Missing Friends.
MACGREGOR—Heirs Wanted.
INFORMATION is desired by the subscribers
as to the heirs and next-of-kin of DR.
GEORGE McGREGOR (or MacGregor), son
of Duncan McGregor, Shoemaker, who re-
sided at Whitliburn, Largs, Scotland, and Agnes
Leishman or McGregor, his wife. Dr. George
McGregor resided at Stafford Place, New City
Road, Glasgow, Scotland, and died in 1871.
His widow and daughter latterly resided in
Largs, Ayrshire.
R. & J. M. HILL BROWN & CO.,
41 West George Street, Glasgow.
Public Notice.
FIFTY POUNDS (£5O) REWARD.
Information is sought concerning GEORGE
LIMBERG, formerly of Erinstein, Nullamanna,
in the State of New South Wales, Grazier, who
disappeared from that property on the Twenty-
fifth day of August One thousand nine hundred
and thirty-six.
The above reward is offered for any informa-
tion disclosing the present whereabouts or
establishing the death of the abovenamed
GEORGE LIMBERG.
Description.
Sixty-six years of age.
Five feet ten inches in height.
Fair complexion.
Grey moustache,
Blue eyes.
Medium to light build.
ANDERSON, WILTSHIRE & MANNING,
Solicitors, Inverell.
Brisbane 's Leading
Daily
THE
TELEGRAPH
has the largest sale in the
area of Greater Brisbane,
and carries the largest share
of local retail and classified
advertising.
Successful Traders
show the way
Brisbane’s most prosperous
business houses consistently
advertise in “The Tele-
graph.”
“The Telegraph” is Queens-
land owned and controlled.
Essentially the Home Paper
of the Brisbane people.
(Member of A.B.C.)
If any illustration in “The Bulle-
tin” takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
THE LITTLE SISTERS.
WESTRALIA.
Lud Mayor Poynton and Nina Jack-
son were married at St. Luke’s Church,
Cottesloe, with only immediate relatives
present. The bride’s mushroom-pink
crepe matelasse was touched with nigger
brown and green, topped with a match-
ing lacy straw hat and adorned with a
posy of pink daisies on the bodice.
Toasts were honored at the H. B. Jack-
sons’ home in Peppermint Grove, with the
hostess in black-and-white patterned silks
aglitter with crystal.
W. W. Meiklejohn, manager of the
co. developing our Garden Island as a
tourist resort, has reported the finding
of cannon-balls, grapeshot, broken china,
coins and the like. A survey of the
site has revealed a massive stonework
well, traces of an old bakehouse, indi-
cations of a clearing of the undergrowth
and an excavation apparently used as
a refuse dump. As permanent settlement
on the island has been established only
in recent years, it is considered highly
probable that the relics date back to
early settlers who chose the island as
an encampment while arrangements were
made for their reception on the main-
land.
The Celtic Club’s ladies’ night was
colorfully set with rainbow lights fes-
tooned from the trees surrounding the
building, beflowered tables arranged
cabaret-wise on the lawns, and flags and
bunting draped in the reception-rooms.
President E. Needham, M.L.A., stood at
the portals with his other half at elbow
and made a speech of welcome before
an octet of artists plunged into the musi-
cal programme. After an interlude for
supper there was dancing in the ball-
room.
Archdeacon Parry. forged the matri-
monial link between Benjamina Clifton
and Reginald Sherlock, of Port Hed-
land. Unsupported by a ’maid, the bride
stepped down the aisle in pervenche-
blue matt, crepe liberally trimmed with
white plaited fagot stitching. Her off-
white straw hat was wreathed with velvet
flowers to match the posy of pink asters
and roses held in her hand. Toasts were
drunk at the flat of bride’s sister Kitty,
who shaded black, white and green floral
silks with a lily-of-the-v.aliey-decked
black hat.
An occasion for wassail was the com-
ing-of-age of the Wesley Inkpens’
brunette daughter Janice. Guests were
invited to turn up at the Log Cabin in
fancy dress, the guest of honor leading
the way in a Nell Gwynne outfit. Sister
Helen fitted her coat of summer suntan
into Spanish drapings ; Marjorie Lukies
used black taffeta and feathers to make
a Gainsborough picture, and Pat Flower
and Cathleen. Atkinson were Dutch girls.
Kathleen Allnutt was in comic rig ; the
men mostly chose guises symbolic of
sailors.
Mary and Elizabeth Durack, Chunumas
authors, returned in the Italian ship
Esquilano from an off-the-beaten-track
trip abroad. After the heat of their
North Westralian home, the cold of
England froze them too forcibly, and they
set off for Libya, which struck them as
a good place to thaw. Here they went
over an old Roman theatre, in the
course of reconstruction, and many new
buildings which have been erected by the.
Italians. The girls next visited Abys-
sinia, where they were impressed by the
progress made in road-building and
general opening up of the country since
the Italian conquest.
Parties for Sheila Hayes have been
combined bride-elect and farewell
shivoos, for her marriage to George
Gwynne will be followed by a six months’
honeymoon abroad. Mavis Holmes was
an early hostess, with morning-tea at the
June Elizabeth ; Mrs. J. P. Durack was
close on her heels at a tennis, tea and
games afternoon at her home in Subiaco.
Mrs. Theodore Pelloe, alternating strips
of lace and organdie in her white con-
fection, confined her sundown party to
members of the Hunt Club, on whose
behalf Mrs. E. L. Barrett presented the
to-be-weds with an inscribed silver tray.
Dolly Ferguson boarded the Moldavia,
bound for England, after a long string
of parties in her honor. Mrs. P. U.
Henn’s was a morning-tea at the
Esplanade; Walter James shook cock-
tails at his home in Mount’s Bay-road ;
tea was again to the fore at Mrs. T.
Pelloe’s, and the president and members
of the Karrakatta Club poured yet more
tea. Grand finale (complete with presen-
tations) was at an afternoon gathering of
members of the literary staff of the
“West Australian,” with a five o’clock
party, with more presentations, given by
the women members of the staff.
The summer crop of engagements con-
tinues to flourish. The most recent to
spring up in the field are those of Gladys
Sampey and Gordon Law (scion of the
R. O. Laws, of West Perth) and Rua
Christoe and John Mure Hunter.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Edwin King, head of Stephen Smith
and Co., London, who is making his
sixth trip to Australia, gave a dinner at
the South Australian, where daughter
Margaret, in a smart streamline frock of
black peau de soie, assisted him to enter-
tain S.A.’s leading vignerons.
Margaret, daughter of the Walter
Duncans, on her return from India,
where she has been visiting her aunt,
Mrs. Alan Dean, was given a welcome-
home party by her cousin, Tony Wyn-
yard, at his mother’s home, Mount
Lofty. Occasion was also taken to con-
gratulate Margaret’s brother John on his
engagement to Rosemary O’Dea.
On their first morning delegates to the
Engineers’ Conference assembled at the
Grosvenor, North-terrace, and after
morning-tea the most energetic were
taken over the Art Gallery and Univer-
sity. In the afternoon the womenfolk
were invited to the Botanical Gardens
for afternoon-tea, and at night all hands
attended a reception at Bonython Hall,
where Uni. Chancellor George Murray
spoke words of welcome. Next evening
there was a dance and bridge party at
Mount Osmond Country Club, where
they were received by Lancelot Parsons
(State president of the Engineers’ Insti-
tute) and his wife and Mr. and Mrs.
Boyd, Mrs. Parsons wearing black chiffon
pintucked on diagonal lines and Mrs.
Boyd gowned in Parma-violet silk crepe.
Dancing was in the lounge and dining-
room, bridge was played in the rooms
downstairs, and supper was served in a
marquee. Frocking was particularly
smart.
Joan, third daughter of William Good-
man and his lady, has announced her
engagement to Hurtle Cummins Mor-
phett, of Queensland, only son of the
George Morphetts, of Morphettville.
They are to be married on March 16.
Among Adelaide folk pleasure-cruis-
ing in the Strathnaver are Herbert Hudd
and his lady and Mrs. H. H. Dutton,
of Anlaby, and daughter Helen.
The overseas secretary of the Mothers’
Union (Mrs. F. Ponder) arrived in the
Strathnaver for a tour of Australia and
is the guest of Bishop Nutter Thomas.
Mrs. Ponder has welcomed many Aus-
tralian visitors at Mary Sumner House
in London, the headquarters of the
union. After addressing branches in
Adelaide, Mrs. Ponder will continue her
tour by car to the Eastern States.
Dr. and Mrs. Esmond Walsh, who were
recently married in W.A. and came
straight through to Adelaide so that the
bride could meet her husband’s family,
sailed in the Strathnaver to spend the re-
mainder of their honeymoon in M.L.
Before leaving Adelaide they were given
a farewell supper party at the H. A.
Lewis home, Toorak Gardens. The bride-
groom’s mother, Mrs. P. J. Walsh, and
sisters Doreen and Leonore were joint
hostesses.
TASMANIA.
Hobart’s harbor being more or less
chock-a-block with ships of the R.A.N.
social doings are many and debs, are in
for a gay season. One of the first of
many parties in the offing was that
given by Dr. and Mrs. W. L. Crowther
for their niece, Mary Chapman, at the
Continental. Mrs. Crowther’s frock of
dull pink and silver was charming. The
young guest of honor was in white tulle
over satin. Her mother, Mrs. Geoffrey
Chapman, favored black and white.
The Governor-General, the Governor
and his lady and Admiral Lane-Poole
were at St. John’s Hospital Ball in the
City Hall, at which over 800 dancers
foregathered. Mrs. D. C. McLaren was
chief organiser, and presented to their
Excellencies nine debs. —Misses Mary
Hodgkinson, Georgine Best, E. Reynolds,
Norma Creese, Dorothy Burnford, Olwyn
Griffiths, F. Saunders, Joy Ikin and W.
Thomas.
Twenty matrons, with Evelyn Butler
as hon. sec., ran a ball at the Continental
during Lord Gowrie’s visit. The Gov-
ernor-General, the Governor, Lady
Clark, Rear-Admiral Lane-Poole, Mrs.
Lane-Poole and daughter Ann, and
officers of the Squadron all went along.
Gay uniforms, charming frocking and
masses of brilliant dahlias and gladioli,
made a bright scene. Three debs, were
presented—Mary Chapman, Margaret
Garsia and Catherine Stops.
The Royal Society’s commemoration
of the centenary of John Franklin’s Gov-
ernorship of Tasmania, held over to
coincide with the Governor-General’s
visit, drew a full house at the Museum.
Franklin in 1838 instituted the Tasmanian
Society, of which the Royal Society is
an offspring. Wilfrid Hudspeth lectured
on the Franklins, particularly the lady,
her wit, her indiscretions and her faculty
for getting things done.
Lord Gowrie expressed himself de-
lighted with our 99th Regatta, and it cer-
tainly was splendid. Weather was per-
fect, the harbor’s blue water carried hun-
dreds of white sails, speedboats and
small craft were massed in force, and the
big warships gave a background of dig-
nity.
The garden party at Government House
in honor of Lord Gowrie’s visit was one
of the highlights of the week. Fine
weather brought out summer frocks.
Lady Clarke’s gown of large-flowered
georgette was coronation blue, with a
subdued pink and blue pattern. Rear-
Admiral Lane-Poole and his officers were
along in uniform. Short frocks were
seen, but there were many long, trailing
frocks, which can so seldom be let loose
on our damp lawns.
Among his many minor activities while
in Hobart Lord Gowrie named one of
our dahlia expert’s 1937 blooms “Lady
Gowrie,” and another, more intimately,
“Zaza.” Mr. Sayers’s dahlia show at
the Cascade Gardens has been a delight
to the tourists, and many travellers in
the Orion received from their friends
farewell gifts of the amazing blooms.
Dr. and Mrs. E. H. Lines gave a late-
afternoon party at Hadleys, partly as a
farewell to Mrs. Tom Lyons and daugh-
ter Sybil, who are just off to the Coro-
nation, and to Dr. Bruce Hamilton,
bound for the same quarter, and partly
as a welcome to the Lineses’ son Ted, over
from Adelaide on a visit. Mrs. Lines,
in navy blue, had her daughter, Mrs.
Dudley Ransom, helping her do the
honors. Lady Clark was among the
guests.
The newly-married Fred Edginton
was guest of honor at a cheery party
given by Mrs. F. A. Edginton and Mrs.
Frank Cole at the Edgintons’ old home,
Everest, Exeter.
The Harold Turners bade a huge
crowd of friends to a sherry party at the
old house with its lovely dark cedar and
garden ablaze with flowers. Lady Clark
was among the guests, and sub-deb.
daughter Mary helped her mother do the
honors.


W hat do they say of
é
your smile ?
If you use Calvert’s, the gleam-
ing whiteness of your teeth
will be the admiration of all
your friends. All dentifrices
contain some powder—that’s
what does the cleaning, but
Calvert’s is ALL POWDER.
That’s why it keeps your
mouth so deliciously fresh and
healthy and gives such sparkling
brilliance to your smile.
F. C. Calvert & Co., Ltd., Eng.
CALVERTS
carbolic TOOTH POWDER
Established
1924.
The only even-
ing Newspaper
in the North of
Tasmania.
T«€ SATUPID^-rvtVtNING
Is published and circulates In Launceston, and
reaches the principal towns on the North*
East, North-West and the Midlands. No A
papers are published on Sundays in Tas- «*-*-
mania; therefore, advertise in “The >uoir
Evening Express” for the Sunday
readers. -
■BUREAU OB'
CIRCULATIONS.
Full information, copies anu advertising rates obtainable from
W. R. ROLPH & SONS PTY., LTD., 71-75 Paterson St., Launceston.
M. S. ALLAN, N.S.W. Bank Chambers, 368 Collins St., Melbourne, C.l.
D. N. SCOTT, 9 Bligb St., Sydney.
The Long White Cloud
Maoriland Sheep Exports
Under permit, Maoriland can import
the Australian stud merino sheep denied
to other wool-producing countries. The
Graziers’ Association of N.S.W. wants
this trans-Tasman traffic investigated
because the progeny of merino importa-
tions from Australia are being re-
exported to rival woolgrowers in other
countries.
Small consignments are said to have
gone to South Africa, Honolulu,
Uruguay, Argentine and the Falkland
Islands. But Maoriland-bred merinos
are smaller than their Australian fore-
bears and the quickly-changing seasons
over the Tasman cause breaks in the
staple of their fleeces.
Other Maoriland sheep are being more
freely exported than merinos. South
American States have been grabbing
Corriedales and Lincolns; Romney
Marshes have been going to Honolulu ,
Corriedales and Romneys to U.S.A.;
Romneys, Border Leicesters and Corrie-
dales to South Africa ; Corriedales and
Romneys to Japan ; and the U.S.S.R. has
just bought heavy April consignments of
Romneys, Corriedales and Border
Leicesters.
Every Australian State except Queens-
land has been importing these Maoriland
sheep, along with Southdowns and Rye-
lands. The export of Maoriland merinos
may have some effect on Australia’s
wool-producing future, but Maoriland’s
unrestricted export of its British crosses
is much more likely to establish serious
competition for it's own fat-lamb markets
overseas.
“M.”: Little English boys are again
hearing of Maoriland opportunities. Not
long ago London dailies carried pictures
of High Commissioner Jordan visiting
his aged mother in the London suburb
he once patrolled as a copper. Finance
Minister Nash has since visited the Ariel
works he joined as a Birmingham office
boy ; before he sailed for Maoriland and
a political future, he was chief of the
costing department. Few leading mem-
bers of the Savage Cabinet are Maori-
landers ; the P.M. was born in Vic. and
Robert Semple, who spent more than 20
years on different Australian goldfields,
in Sofala (N.S.W.).
* ❖ *
“J 2”: Somebody has come along with
a suggestion for a Back-to-the-West-Coast
(M.L.) Week, where the old hands of
the digging days and the Seddon days
(“What a blanky fine navvy was lost in
him,” as one old-timer wept into my
ear) could get merrier and tighter. The
last West Coast jamboree in my recol-
lection was held at Wellington, and a
great night it was, typical of the rough
and early days. On the bill-of-fare were
eels baked in clay, Maori hen skilly,
pipis, bush pie, pigeon and kaka stew,
native-rat patties, roast “Captain Cook”
(wild pig) with pepper-tree sauce, kakapo,
kiwi, we.ka with grassroot and tree-fern,
dock tart, fuschia-berry pie, spotted
tommy, slapjacks, damper and cheese.
And swipes! She-oak, chain-lightning,
stone-fence, Greek fire, tanglefoot, pain-
killer (to top off with), Worcester sauce
(to finish with) and corpse-reviver (as
a pick-me-up) to go on with. That was
the night I saw a full-grown moa and
chased it for three miles. I might have
caught it before it reached the Kaiwarra
pub if I hadn’t fallen over a drunken
cop.
* ❖ * *
“B.”: Rua (B. 3/3/’37) had a longer
run and more rope from the M.L.
Government than he should ever have
been allowed. I remember an occasion
“ What! No puddin'? Py Chove, anyone fink I trainin' to pe a jockey!”
when, at Whakatane, he was fined £lOO
on charges of illicit liquor trading. Rua
smiled and yawned, as if the proceed-
ings had really been got up for the
amusement of himself and his wives.
His package of notes, carelessly thrown
open and £lOO peeled off as if it
were sixpence for a beer-sparrer, gave
one a nasty taste in the mouth. He was
a Maori only in the color of his skin.
* * * *
“Korero”: South Islanders are keep-
ing a jealous eye on proposals likely to
affect tourist traffic, and their Travel
Association organiser, J. J. W. Pollard
(B. 23/12/’37), seems to get all the daily
newspaper publicity he wants. Minister
of Internal Affairs Parry said the other
day that North Island fishing streams
should be further developed ; Mr. Pol-
lard immediately jumped on him, con-
tending that northern streams had
already swept away considerable money
that might have been better spent in the
south, where “natural conditions are so
favorable, the fish fight better and facili-
ties for anglers are greater.” Seems a
pity that Cook Strait’s few short miles
of sea water should breed these differ-
ences in a Maoriland that some ill-
informed people in overseas countries
still believe is a part of Australia —and
the Tasman has so many more sea miles
than the Strait. In “Libelled Lady”
William Powell swots up angling and
tells the world —and Myrna Loy’s film
father —that its best trout fishing is at
“Lake Taaa-upo, New Zealand.” Still,
Powell probably doesn’t know yet that
Maoriland is divided into two big islands
and a bunch of small ones —overseas
they are all “little New Zealand.” Tour-
ists with time available are not likely to
miss either big island because of the
dividing ditch.
% % sf* %
“Xo”: Maoris have gone beyond
English-speaking countries to earn good
livings (B. 17/2/’37). Albert Falwasser,
who quitted a Maoriland office job when
his play with a touring Maori Rugby
Union team attracted an English League
offer some years ago, is now complet-
ing his third season as player-coach to
the Bordeaux Rugby League Club in
France. He knows enough colloquial-
isms to give his men the spirited tongue-
bashings that are features of French
football, and he knows southern Europe.
In May he is having a few weeks’ holiday
on the Riviera before returning to Lan-
cashire. Son of a Taranaki Maori
family, Falwasser represented his prov-
ince as a Union threequarter before he
went overseas.
* * * *
“Motu”: Some American magazines
suffer official Maoriland censure (B.
3/3/’37) only because they carry a type
of advertisement whose wording is too
frank for the Indecent Publications Act.
Maoriland readers don’t object to the
removal of the ads., but are annoyed
when deletions carry off inches of read-
ing matter on the other sides of the
pages. This razor-blade censorship is
nearly as farcical as that employed by
British authorities when the American
magazine “Time” was running yarns on
the “world’s greatest romance - ’; regular
Maoriland subscribers still receive un-
mutilated copies of periodicals posted to
them from overseas. Anyhow, many of
Maoriland’s own publications carry
similar advertisements under a camou-
flage sufficient to satisfy the Act, but
still slight enough to convey their real
purpose—and the goods can be openly
bought in most Maoriland villages.
“Cluny”: Fishing rights mentioned in
the Treaty of Waitangi (B. 10/2/*37) are
only one subject of Maori-pakeha dispute
dating back to the days of earlier settle-
ment. South Island Maoris are still
pressing for Parliamentary justice over
the acquisition in 1848 of 26,000,000
acres extending from North Canterbury
down to the Otago Peninsula. The Gov-
ernment bought it for £2OOO, a man
named Kemp making the deal. Land
sales in other parts invariably reserved
one acre in ten for the natives, but this
was overlooked in the Kemp transaction
and the South Island Maoris have been
seeking proper settlement since 1875. In
1921 a royal commission recommended
that the natives be paid £345,000 com-
pensation ; in 1935 the Government
offered £lOO,OOO cash in full settlement,
but this was refused. The Maoris estab-
lished the Ngaitahu Trust Board in 1929,
but no compensation money has been
received for it' to administer. Prime
Minister Savage heard this sorry tale a
few days ago—and his reply was even
more vague and unsatisfactory than most
of his policy announcements. Not once
did he directly refer to the debt. He
did observe, with the characteristic
Savage gesture of airy innocence, that
Labor would “do justice to the Maori
people.”


A FINER OSCILLATOR -at a Lower Price
Announcing the 1937 “PALEC”
MODEL DR. —an Oscillator of advanced
design, incorporating every modern
technical development and including many
exclusive features.
Specifications:—
DIRECT READING DIAE
(Vernier Drive)
Calibrated to read simultaneously Kilocycles
aud Metres. Five ranges from
(2000-10 metres).
CONSTANT IMPEDANCE ATTENUATOR
(Pad Type).
Each arm of the 10 step network is individu-
ally shielded. The whole unit in turn is triple
shielded, resulting in positive attenuation of
the generated signal at all frequencies.
The above is a unique feature in a low-
priced Oscillator, and enables one to make
many reliable tests.
Other features are VARIABLE MODULATION
0-100% ;
A separate AUDIO OUTPUT 0-2 volts at 400
c.p.s.;
A PILOT LIGHT to ensure long battery life;
A tapped DUMMY ANTENNA for lilt. B.C.
and S.W. Bands.
The instrument is of attractive appearance
and is supplied complete with Valves (2),
batteries and full instructions detailing
SYSTEMATIC LINING UP PROCEDURE ON
ALL TYPES OF SETS.
Trade price £lO/15/- plus tax
Send for, particulars aud illustrated catalogue
of full range of test equipment.
ê
THE PATON ELECTRICAL INSTRUMENT CO.
90 Victoria Street, Ashlleld, Sydney. Telephone - - - UA1960.
Manufacturers of the well-known PAI.EC METER AND CATHODE RAY
OSCLLLOGRAPH.
Obtainable from: —
SYDNEY —Lawrence and Hanson, Ltd.; Bloch
and Gerber; Fox and MacGillycuddv.
MELBOURNE—LAWRENCE and Hanson" Ltd.;
A. H. Gibson (Elect.) Co. Pty., Ltd.
BRISBANE —Lawrence and Hanson, Ltd.
ADELAIDE —Newton McLaren, Limited.
NEW ZEALAND—The Electric Lamp House.
Ltd., Wellington.
wta
Position Wanted.
RADIO ENGINEER, with full qualifications,
13 years’ experience, requires position with
-class station.—No. 279, c/o The Bulletin,
ox 252188, G.P.0., Sydney.
is
mm
mm
m
Lonc-lif*
SAfTEB*
IMPEX
NEW OXYGENATED
DRY BATTERIES
are the
LARGEST Australian-owned and -operated Dry Battery Factory in
the Commonwealth.
LARGEST Independent Manufacturers of Dry Batteries in Australia.
LARGEST Seller of any Battery Capitalised, Designed and Manu-
factured Solely by Australians.
No Referendum Needed to Establish Their Popularity.
LOWER PRICES, BETTER BATTERIES.
L£ you have any difficulty in obtaining the New Impex Oxygenated Batteries,
write direct to Impex, L,td., Hoddle Street, Abbotsford, NS), Vic., or 131 Clarence
Street, Sydney, giving name of nearest dealer.
RADIO BARGAINS.
Philips Eliminators 10/-, 12/6, 15/-; Philips Audio
Transformers 10/-, A.W.A. 6/-, others from 3/-.
Lightning Arrester and Switch, 6d. Variabli-
Condensers from 2/-. Keinartz Coils 1/6. Valves:
6-volt Battery, 6/-; A.C., 227,. 3/6; 224, 4/6;
42, 6/-; 6A7. 7/6; 687, 7/6; 2A6, 6/-. Cord Grip
Ho’lders, 3d. All tested and guaranteed. Add postage.
RADIO SUPPLY STORES,
7 ROYAL ARCADE. SYDNEY.
RADIOKES
VI BRATOR
Radiokes PERFECTED Vibrator—easy to instal—
marvellously economical —100% satisfactory. oa T
you money on batteries. Suitable for ANY battery
set. £6/6/-. Voltage Divider Unit, 15/ *•
Write io Radioices, Ltd., Sydney, for free illustrated
literature ROW.
RADIO NEWS.
DON B. KNOCK'S PAGES.
Short-wave Receiver
Problems.
Despite the large number of super-
heterodynes in use, many amateurs and
short-wave listeners prefer smaller re-
ceivers. Most popular is the three-valve
circuit which employs a stage of tuned
R.F., a regenerative detector and one
stage of audio. Such a receiver, properly
built, is efficient, quiet in operation and
inexpensive.
Most important in the layout and wir-
ing of a receiver of this kind is provision
for complete isolation between the. R.F.
stage and the regenerative detector. Even
a very small amount of interaction is
undesirable, as a regenerative detector in
itself is none too stable. Add to this an
R.F. stage which affects both the regen-
eration and the tuning adjustment of the
detector, and tuning the contraption
would be a superhuman achievement. In
Fig. 1. —Circuit diagram of a suggested three-valve receiver.
addition to complicating operation, the
presence of interaction would make it
impossible to calibrate the receiver.
Interaction, therefore, must be reduced
to a minimum. With a little care, it is
not difficult to do this, since interaction
is caused by coupling between exposed
parts of detector and R.F. circuits. This
coupling is usually between coils, vari-
able condenser stators and grid or plate
leads. It can also occur in the heater
wiring, power supply or even in incor-
rectly-designed shielding.
The ideal receiver would have coupling
in the one-way action of the R.F. ampli-
fier to the detector, and no reverse
coupling of any kind. In the normal
operation of the receiver, the detector,
because of its regeneration, is the con-
trolling circuit. The wave-length to
which the detector is tuned is the wave-
length that will be received. The closer
the R.F. stage can be brought into reso-
nance with the detector, the louder will
be the signal and the more sensitive the
set.
Effect of Interaction.
Fig. 1 is the diagram of a three-valve
receiver; and here it will be assumed
that a two-gang condenser is used to
tune R.F. and detector stages, with the
addition of an R.F. stage trimmer for
manual operation. If some interaction
is present, operation of the receiver will
be affected in the following manner: A
station is tuned-in, say, on 31 metres.
Then, to get maximum sensitivity and
best signal, the R.F. trimmer must be ad-
justed. This trimmer adjustment, be-
cause of the interaction, detunes the de-
tector circuit. As the detector controls
the received wave-length, detuning in this
way cuts out the signal. The main tuning
must be readjusted to get the signal back
again and the R.F. trimmer readjusted,
going over the process a number of times
until the loudest signal is obtained.
If there is no interaction, the R.F.
trimmer will have practically no effect
on the detector adjustment. Thus, as
the detector is the controlling circuit in
the tuning, a single adjustment of the
tuning condenser will suffice, after which
the R.F. trimmer may be adjusted for
maximum volume without affecting the
wave-length setting.
This is the ideal
condition of opera-
tion, and it is by no
means difficult to
secure. In these days
adequate care is, or
should be, taken in
decoupling power-
supply circuits in
addition to mechani-
cal screening. Most
of the interaction in
a tuned R.F. short-
wave receiver is from
unwanted coupling
through the power
supply. Large isola-
tion resistors must be used in all screen
and plate supplies to R.F. and detector
valves. They must then be by-passed
by a fairly large condenser to a single-
point earth for each set of circuits.
“One-point” Earthing.
Technical writers invariably stress the
need for attention to this feature of set
Fig. 2.—Chassis layout, showing proper
spacing and placement of essential parts.
wiring. Many constructors make earth
returns on a metal chassis to the nearest
point from an individual component.
This sets up oscillatory R.F. “circuits” in
places where they are not wanted, and
the result is at once interaction. Radio
frequency current does not take the most
direct path. It has a tendency to spread
or to follow the outside whether it is flow-
ing through a wire or over a flat metal
surface, as with a radio chassis. These
currents, therefore, will spread and be
found at all parts of the chassis. If the
wiring of the detector circuit has been
done equally carelessly, R.F. and de-
tector circuit currents will be spread over
the entire receiver. There is a resistance
drop in a chassis as in a length of wire,
only more so.
Three-valve Circuit Example.
It is obvious in designing our three-
valve receiver that all earthing should
be done at a single point— at least for
a given set of circuits. The front section
of the two-condenser gang should be
used for the R.F. stage and the rear for
the detector. The most practical method
is to run all R.F. stage earths to a lug
where the panel joins the chassis, right
under the condenser shaft. Detector
leads can go to a lug at the rear of the
tuning condenser. Circuits belonging to
the R.F. stage should also include the
plate of the valve and its return by-
pass. The receiver example illustrated
is from U.S.A., and was detailed some
time ago in “Radio.” It uses plug-in
coils, and, contrary to average practice,
these are screened. The screens, how-
ever, are large enough to reduce coil
losses to a point where they are not seri-
ous. They are well spaced to avoid inter-
coupling from the currents induced in
the coil screens from the coils. For
coil and tuning condenser data, see the
chart published in B. 30/ 9 / ’36. The
ganged condenser unit should be around
.00014mfd. each section, but it is not
necessary to stick to that capacity.
Mechanical Bandspread Suggestion.
There are various ways of obtaining
the necessary bandspreading for ease
of tuning on short waves. The one sug-
gested for the original receiver calls for
a little mechanical ability, and is, un-
fortunately, not an easy job for the aver-
age constructor. If it can be done, it is
well worth while. The rear view of the
set shows the working parts of this band-
spreader. The tuning condenser, instead
of being rigidly mounted to the panel,
as is usually the case, is held securely
in a cradle or swivel mounting. The
mounting is extended upward as shown,
and at the top a coupling arm is at-
tached. The other end of the coupling
arm connects to a small cam which is
operated by the bandspread dial. Rotat-
ing this dial will turn the cam and give,
a small amount of back-and-forth motion
to the coupling arm. This transfers the
motion to the cradle mounting, and
swivels the condenser stator over a small
angle. The other dial tunes the con-
denser rotor. If the coupling arm is
made adjustable, it may be set to give
any desired spread on any band. With
this system it is just as easy to band-
spread a four-gang as a single con-
denser, which is a big advantage.
Regeneration.
The detector portion of the receiver
circuit shown is unusual, but particularly
effective as a stable regenerator. Feed-
back is confined to the screen, and the
plate is left free of R.F. component.
Control is very smooth, and there is
complete freedom from squawking and
spilling over. The audio system shows
a single 2A5 with plate choke to protect
’phones or magnetic speaker. Any of
the popular valve series can be used, and
in the 6.3-volt range the 6D6, 6C6 and
42 would be suitable. The receiver is
quite capable of operating a speaker on
the more consistent short-wave broad-
casting stations.
Secondaries of R.F. and detector coils
should be identical. On the detector coil
the secondary should be in the middle,
the primary on top, next to the grid end
Fig. 3. —Showing the mechanical band-
spreader and large-size coil screens.
of the secondary, and the feed-back coil
below. Turns ratio between secondary
and feed-back coil are best determined
by experiment, but should be about 6 to
1 for 40 metres and up, 4 to 1 for 25
to 40 metres, and about 1| to 1 below
40 metres. Below 20 metres it may be
necessary to interwind part of the feed-
back coil with the secondary to secure
oscillation. The primary coil for coup-
ling detector to R.F. should be two-
thirds the size of the secondary and
spaced away about
A receiver of this kind is effective for
all-round short-wave reception.
D. B. K.
Plastic or Stereophonic
Sound.
It is strange that neither in broadcast-
ing nor in the talkie film has the great
possibilities of plastic hearing been
utilised. Just as a person possesses two
eyes, two ears are provided so that a
sense of direction may be utilised. One
instinctively turns the head when listening
for a distant sound. The reason is that,
should the source of the sound be either
directly in front or behind, it is not
possible to locate it without turning the
head, and when this is automatically done
the direction is determined, not only by
the louder effect in one ear than the other,
but also by an effect that has a greater
bearing on the directive powers, and that
is the time taken for the sound to travel
to the other ear.
The effect of viewing a picture having
depth or solidity is said to be stereo-


DO YOU KNOW ?
That the tone and range of all radio sets depend
largely upon the valves used?
Radiotron valves ensure good tonal quality and
extreme range.
Install Radiotrons and observe the difference.
ë
10 ITIINS
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS
(AUSTRALASIA) LTD.
47 York Street, Sydney
167-169 Queen Street, Melbourne
ē
(Advertisement of Amalgamated Wireless Valve Co. Ltd.)
scopic, and sound where use is made of
the differentiating powers of two ears is
termed stereophonic.
In March, 1927, 6WF (W.A.) con-
ducted stereophonic transmissions. Two
microphones were used in the studio and
placed about Bin. apart. Each micro-
phone was connected through an ampli-
fier and applied to the 1250-metre and
the 104.5-metre transmitters respectively.
The listener had two sets, one tuned to
1250 and the other to 104.5 metres, and
adjusted so that the volume was approxi-
mately equal. Earphones or loudspeakers
could be employed: if loudspeakers, they
were used side by side ; if earphones, one
earpiece was connected to each set.
Immediately a change in the tone was
noticed, and the music took on a reality
unobtainable by the usual method. The
orchestra had solidity—the violins and
other strings could be discerned to one
side, the piano in the centre and the
cornets and associated brass on the other
side. Of course, it did not matter to
which side the various instruments were
placed as far as the listener was con-
cerned ; in fact, if the position of the
speakers or headphones was changed
over the orchestra appeared to do like-
wise.
The tests and transmissions were con-
ducted by the writer and the staff of 6WF
Perth, and reports were received from
many listeners who were greatly im-
pressed by the results. The slight move-
ments of the announcer could be fol-
lowed ; as the microphones were Bin.
apart the sound that came from one in-
strument on the end of the orchestra
reached one microphone about l-1650th
of a second before the other; the micro-
phone that was nearer received more
volume than the further one. The two
effects are reproduced in each earpiece
or loudspeaker, and when the impressions
are combined in the brain the property
of plastic or stereophonic hearing is pro-
duced.
Results are quite otherwise in ordinary
present-day broadcasting. Here there is
a single microphone which cannot per-
ceive the path and time differences of
the sound waves, and the reproduction
certainly cannot be plastic; it is flat
and characterised by a lifeless cold tone.
The warmth of speech and the individual
positions of the instruments of the or-
chestra are not identifiable.
In 1912 a stereophonic apparatus was
used at a German commercial exhibition
where a receiving-room was arranged,
and one could listen to an opera pro-
gramme received from two microphones
and using land-line transmission con-
nected with the Prince Regent stage.
It is comparatively easy to record and
reproduce stereophonic or plastic hearing
to a talkie film and theatre. The result
would be that in dialogue the sound
would come from the position of the
speaker; as the speaker moved across
the picture, the sound would follow. The
orchestra in the picture would take on
dimensions and the instruments would
have definite position. Absence of this
plastic effect makes even the best film
orchestra lack that something that a flesh-
and-blood combination possesses, even if
of inferior quality.
W.E.C.
What's What in Radio.
The ultra-short-wave radio beacons at
Croydon airport, London, recently had
their utility strikingly demonstrated.
Dense fog having descended, the depar-
ture of all outgoing ’planes was post-
poned, and two ’planes from the Con-
tinent which had started their journeys
were warned of the ground conditions
and advised to land on the coast. How-
ever, being fitted with the special ultra-
short-wave apparatus, they decided to
continue the journey. The first, a Swiss,
picked up the beam, landed and taxied
in to the control tower, much to the sur-
prise of ground officers, the fog having
rendered the landing invisible. The
second machine also got down safely,
without any difficulty.
* * * *
In Sweden ultra-shorts have now been
applied to railway signalling. Shunting
yards at Malmo have a transmitter along-
side the track, the overhead electric
power cables being used for aerials.
Control boxes are placed in different
parts of the shunting yards, so that the
official in charge, can direct' locomotive
drivers from whichever position happens
to be convenient. There are four prin-
cipal orders used in shunting work, and
these are given by colored lights in the
locomotive cabs. Each control box has
four buttons by means of which the
audio-frequency modulation impressed
upon the carrier wave is varied to cor-
respond with the constants of any one
of the four signal-lamp circuits. There
is also a fifth circuit for spoken orders.
* * # *
Experimental television signals from
Moscow are reported to have been picked
up by an amateur in Birmingham, Eng-
land.
si: * * *
Programmes from American ultra-
short-wave broadcasting stations are
being heard in England. On a Sunday
afternoon loud signals originating in
Boston were heard on seven metres.
Amateur Chatter.
An overseas magazine that has a finger
on the pulse of European amateur radio
is the “T. and R. Bulletin,” official organ
of the Radio Society of Great Britain.
A monthly, it is obtainable by member-
ship in the R.5.G.8., which, to an Aus-
tralian, costs 12s. 6d. (Eng.) a year. The
“T. and R. Bulletin” carries first-class
technical material and covers every
phase of amateur radio, with breezy
notes and chronicles of amateur doings.
The address of the R.S.G.B. is 53 Vic-
toria-street, London, S.W.I.
Except for transceivers in the Eastern
Suburbs, five metres about Sydney has
been in a lull. But at time of writing a
big mobile field-day is about to be held.
As predicted, the effectiveness of two
Bruce aerial systems for stations poorly
placed over a long distance has been
well demonstrated by VKs 2BP and
2EM. The two stations have the whole
steel structure of Sydney’s bridge be-
tween, and 2EM is on water level, but
R7/8 communication is regularly
achieved, whereas nothing much can be
heard at all with ordinary dipoles. Bruce
aerial systems working at aviation ultra-
high frequencies should be invaluable on
the Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane
airlines. They would provide a strong
narrow beam signal, possibly over 200
miles or more, and an intermediate
station along the route could complete
the link, the Bruce beam being bi-direc-
tional. Something of the kind is impera-
tive when a modern mail-and-passenger
’plane can disappear into the blue, as the
Stinson did, with no definite clue
as to the last position. There are occa-
sions when the discoveries of the mere
amateur are worthy of notice, and this
is one.
The 20-metre band is very lively again,
and American ’phones are, as at this
time last year, very strong in the late
afternoon. In the early morning (from
6 to 8 Sydney time) Europeans are reach-
ing good strength, and a few ’phones
are beginning to override the noise level.
A station worked on the morning of
24/2/’37 was ZC6AQ, in Palestine. He
had a strong signal but a somewhat
unsteady note. “G2ZQ,” in “T. and R.
Bulletin,” refers to stations signing SNTI
and SNT4 inside the amateur 20-metre
range. These are Spanish “Red” stations,
and are probably “ham” rigs taken over
by the authorities. Several doubtful
stations are discussed, and conjecture
arises over FKBAA, who is suspected by
Gs of not being genuine. For the benefit
of English readers, FKBAA is genuine.
Located at Noumea, he is old F7CGV
under a new call, and is well known to
VKs. It appears that in Europe there
is a lot of trickery over callsigns pur-
porting to arise from various places.
Unusual calls heard are HS4T, FSSAZ
and UN2A.
An Australian figured in a historic
six-way, six-continent ’phone contact on
December 30. Stations participating
were W4DLH (Florida, U.S.A.), VU2CQ
(Bombay, India), SUICH (Cairo, Egypt),
HKIZ (Colombia, S. America), GSML
(Kenilworth, England) and VK4LO
(Brisbane). The first round took 21
minutes, and established a record for
W.A.C. (worked all continents). Each
one of the six stations could hear the
other five, and the approximate distance
covered in each round was 50,000 miles.
It is reported that W2IXY made a re-
cording of the contacts.
VK2NO.
Radio Trade Spotlight.
In addition to its well-known dry-
cell radio batteries, Impex, Ltd., of
Abbotsford (Vic.), manufactures moulded
mica condensers. These have been used
for some time in all Bulletin radio con-
structional jobs, and are strongly recom-
mended. The latest Impex product is
the electrolytic type of filter condenser
illustrated. It is strongly built, fitted
with standardised single-hole base mount-
ing, and rated at Bmfd. at 500 peak volts
D.C. In tests Impex electrolytic con-
densers give excellent working results.
They are stocked by all radio wholesale
houses.
* * * *
Amalgamated Wireless Valve Co. an-
nounces preliminary details of special
amateur receivers in “Radiotronics” No.
73. It is proposed to produce two
models, the first a senior model, em-
ploying 13 valves and including crystal
filter, noise silencer, beat oscillator and
magic-eye tuning, and at a later date a
junior model with about eight valves,
which should be capable of good results
at a considerably lower cost.
Both models will cover the 10-, 20-, 40-
and 80-metre bands and will have an
intermediate frequency of 465 kc. Plug-
in coils have been chosen in preference
to band switching on account of greater
flexibility, lower cost and simplified
wiring.
Valve arrangement of senior model is:
6D6 or 6K7 .. Radio frequency amplifier
6L7 Mixer
6C6 or 6J7 .. Electron-coupled oscillator
6L7 Noise-silencer muting
6C6 or 6J7 .. Noise-silencer amplifier
6H6 Noise-silencer diodes
6D6 or 6K7 .. First I.F. amplifier
687 S Second I.F. and diode detector
6J7 Beat-frequency oscillator
75 or 6Q7 .... Audio amplifier and A.V.C.
diode
42 or 6F6 .... Power pentode
6G5 Magic eye
80 Rectifier
Where either all-metal or glass valves
may be used without affecting the cir-
cuit' the alternative type numbers are
given. In other cases no alternative is
available.
Circuit diagram and coil specifications
will appear in the next issue of “Radio-
tronics.”
* * * *
The new Radiotron 808 is a high-MU
triode with maximum plate dissipation of
50 watts, arranged with the plate brought
out to a cap on the top of the bulb and
the grid to a cap on the side. A tan-
talum plate is employed, and under
maximum dissipation conditions the
color of the plate is dull red. Maximum
ratings may be employed up to 30 mega-
cycles. The maximum plate voltage and
plate input must be reduced to 75 p.c.
for 60 megacycles and 50 p.c. for 130
megacycles. The resonant frequency of
the grid plate circuit is approximately
272 megacycles.
Details are:
Filament voltage (A.C. or D.C.) .. 7.5 volts
Filament current 4 amperes
Amplification factor 47
Direct inter-electrode capacitances
(approx.)—
Grid-plate 3 uuF
Grid-filament 5 uuF
Plate-filament 0.2 uuF
Base—Medium four-pin bayonet.
Maximum output—
As Class B audio amplifier
(2 valves) 185 watts
As Class B linear amplifier .... 22 watts
As plate modulated amplifier .... 105 watts
As oscillator or Class C ampli-
fier 140 watts
Maximum plate voltage 1500 volts
% ❖ *
The arrival of the s.s. Monterey on
March 1 was anxiously awaited by
Amplion (A’sia), Limited —she brought
the biggest shipment of Hammond
clock's ever to reach Australia. A huge
consignment of them had been held up
since before Christmas by the U.S. ship-
ping strike, but it will now be possible
to meet all requirements, as a number
of shipments will reach Australia almost
simultaneously. One of the most popu-
lar types of all, the Picardy, has been
practically unobtainable since the strike
commenced. Approximately 3000 clocks
are in the shipment.
The Question Box.
Full name and address must accompany all
queries. Write legibly to avoid confusion in
addresses, etc.
(1) Enclosed is the circuit of a battery super-
het I made from a description in a handbook.
It has good sensitivity and tone, but tuning
appears to be much too broad for a modern
circuit. When tuned to a station close to an-
other an annoying singing note develops. The
set was constructed with 465 kc. 1.F., although
175 Ax-, was recommended. What effect would
the replacement of the present transformers
with 175 Ac. transformers have on (a) sensitivity,
(b) selectivity? (2) Would you recommend re-
placement of present coils and transformers by
iron-cored types ? (3) If so, what do you
recommend ?—504
(1) The “singing” is probably not a fault
of the set; it is more likely to be due to two
stations heterodyning each other. This hap-
pens in certain circumstances around the 200-
to 250-metre range. If 465 kc. transformers are
air-cored, 175 kc. transformers would increase
both sensitivity and selectivity, but oscillator,
detector and R.F. coils would need to suit.
(2) Yes. The same degree of selectivity, if
not better, would be obtained with iron-cored
465 kc. I.F.Ts. as with 175 kc. air-cored types.
(3) The Radiokes- Co. has just produced some
excellent new R.F. and I.F.Ts. on the highly-
efficient Sirufer cores. Write the co. for par-
ticulars.


Sts
LYS
m
MUlOt
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in every
Roll of Netting .
Fencing Wire
ĕ
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED .
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Brothers & Co., Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street, Sydney
SPEC
FY "LYSAGHT 1 S" WIRE, WIRE NETTING,
ETC.
THE MAN ON THE LAND
THE STUFF TO GIVE'EM
MEGGITTS LINSEED MEAL.
Skirting Fleece Wool.
“C.V.S.”: There can be no universal
rule for the skirting of fleece wool. The
classer must see the wool before decid-
ing how it is to be skirted. Still, there
is a correct way to skirt every fleece ac-
cording to its quality, amount of burr
and the market.
A fleece that is burry all over should
have only the sweaty ends, stain and
hairy breech removed. When it merely
fringes the fleece, all the burr should be
taken off, leaving the fleece lines free.
Free fleeces off clean country, should be
skirted very lightly, though if they run
strong or hairy at the breech and show
a decided throat lash a little more
should be removed at these points. This
applies especially if U.S.A. buyers are
competing keenly, as at present, and the
wool is suitable for their requirements —
fine and of good length and style.
Although it pays to remove dusty backs
from some well-grown, comparatively
bright wools, the practice of heavily
skirting very dusty wools, such as
Mallee, is not desirable. There is a
mere handful of fairly clean wool in each
fleece ; the fleeces should be only lightly
trimmed. Roughly, the oddments of an
average Riverina clip will comprise about
40 p.c. of the whole, excluding lambs.
Importance of Protein.
“Albarmount”: Dried-off pastures with
ample digestible carbohydrates will main-
tain grown dry sheep in fair order, but
if protein content is low wool growth
will be retarded and the fleece will be
finer in fibre and probably have a break,
Proteins are essential for the develop-
ment of young sheep, the foetus of breed-
ing ewes, the production of wool and
the rebuilding of broken-down tissues.
Amino-acids are the components of pro-
tein, and one of these; cystine, forms 13
p.c. of wool fibre.
.Supplying licks with a. high protein
content is not nearly as' satisfactory as
providing pastures rich in protein. Exotic
clovers and grasses are more nutritious
than indigenous plants, and clovers are
richer and maintain the protein content
longer than grasses.
Green tips of maturing plants are
mostly very rich, and sheep, being selec-
tive foragers, nibble them off. After
seeding, most plants are markedly low
in protein, and sheep often experience
a protein dearth when the feed reaches
this stage after a flush season.
Excess carbohydrates are stored: as
body fats, and bones are the storehouses
for excess minerals. Unfortunately, ex-
cess protein cannot be stored in the
system and is excreted. Therefore, over-
feeding this element is waste.
.Blood- and meat-meals contain the
highest percentage of protein. Protein-rich
fodders include bran, lucerne hay, maize,
wheat, oats and oaten hay, in that order.
Of scrub fodder, rosewood is the rich-
est, but is at times poisonous. Wilga,
kurrajong and mulga contain a fair
amount of protein.
Universal Tally.
“G.”: I don’t expect the universal
tally system ever to get a footing, but let
us look at it sensibly.
The shearing costs are nothing when
the job is properly done—a penny or so
extra a head is little on an 81b. fleece.
But having handled wool in sheds from
30 stands down to two stands, I am satis-
fied that often hundreds of pounds have
been thrown away through rough
handling of wool, during rush and bustle.
Here’s an actual case. On two sheds
almost' adjoining, one man got his sheep
done for a penny a head less than the
other. The penny-a-head-more man had
three shearers and three shedhands. The
average per day was about 120. There
were no inefficient men working for boys’
wages, and no loafing. The wool met a
low market, but it sold l|d. per pound
better than the other man’s, or Is. 3d. per
head better —all for an extra Id. per
head. Apart from that, not a sheep was
lost, despite the ewes being heavy in
lamb.
The universal system was not operat-
ing, but the instance shows what might
be done with an average, team, decent
shed labor and plenty of time. As
classer I was able to make the most of
a clip that was seedy and dusty. The
“Make it snappy with those gas masks, Wilbur!"
other chap —handling the wool alone,
except per a boy on the board —had no
chance.
Calf-feeding Hints.
“Hortus”: A young calf should be. fed
. for its first week one gallon per day
of its dam’s milk at a temp, of 90deg.
to lOOdeg. F. in three meals.
After that', cut out the midday feed.
Then gradually replace whole milk with
skim till the calf is six weeks old, when
it should have l£gal. skim milk per day,
with a substitute added to make up for
butterfat taken from the milk.
For that purpose crushed linseed is
most' economical, and, the oil is easily
digested. Boil one part linseed to six
parts water until a thick jelly is formed,
and allow one pint of jelly to each calf
daily. Coconut oil cake also gives good
results. Soak or scald it, and feed just
like linseed.
Feed skim milk fresh and warm.
Separate all. froth from the milk before
feeding and add about 1 p.c. of lime
water.
Don’t overfeed, feed regularly and
keep all utensils clean. Also, provide a
good, clean, grass run, plenty of clean
water and rock salt.
Dehorning.
“Beefo”: As “Bullocky” (B. 27/2/’37)
says, dehorning is unlikely to come into
general use in Australia until meat pro-
ducers adopt farm instead of station big-
mob methods.
Nor will it come unless a rigid rule is
made by exporters that no beef shall
be shipped abroad unless from polled or
dehorned cattle. Both in U.S.A. and the
Argentine such a rule applies, and Rho-
desia and M.L. talk of falling into line.
As all who have tried it know, de-
horning pays. Some contend that meat-
works do not pay any more for polled
or dehorned cattle than they do for
horned—a fallacious argument', of
course, in these days of payment made
on a per 1001 b. basis, according to grade,
frozen or chilled weights, over the scales,
instead of, as formerly, price per-head
on the hoof. Even if buying on the
hoof came into vogue again, it is certain
that polled or dehorned cattle would
realise more at the works * than would
beef bruisers.
Three-day, Sickness.
“Salmon Gums” : Symptoms identical
with those of three-day ■ sickness (B.
27/1/’37) marked an ailment which
affected cattle in the north of W.A. last
year. Agricultural Department experts
were unable to classify it or suggest a
remedy, but animals quickly, recovered
without ill effects unless driven while
the malady was on. Mortality in W.A.,
as in Queensland, was negligible, and the
disease was not regarded seriously by
beef men. In the end, it faded out.
Pasture Time.
“Rom Ney”: Autumn is the time for
pasture work, and problems of the stock-
raiser'may be summarised as: Improve-
ment of carrying capacity of poorer
country; provision of winter grazing in
cold country ; maintenance of soil fer-
tility in older and closely-grazed dis-
tricts ; establishment of grazing areas to
withstand dry spells. Every man must
study his peculiar conditions and base
his pasture programme accordingly.
On tablelands and coast and in cer-
tain portions of the wheat belt, plough-
ing the land and working it as for a
crop (with control of weed growth) for
later sowing of mixed grasses has proved
successful. Another method is to broad-
cast grass and clover seed and cover by
harrowing. This can be done during
top-dressing by mixing seed with fer-
tiliser. Free germinators are perennial
and Wimmera ryes, sheep’s burnet, sub.
clover.
Some distribute suitable seeds round
fallen timber, in dry or semi-dry gilgais,
over dug-out warrens, in holes left by
burnt-out stumps and other places where
seed can obtain cover. Far-sighted
people leave a paddock or two right out
of stock, so that native grasses or salt-
bushes can seed and thus thicken the
pasture.
Study the composition of the existing
pasture. Where such natives as wallaby
or panic grasses, ball or burr clover, and
trefoil grow well, the plough might ruin
them. Much better to top-dress well with
super, and give the paddocks a short
rest. But flogged-out or weed-smothered
paddocks should, if possible, be ploughed,
worked and re-grassed. If the ground is
free-working, harrowing may be suffi-
cient. Ploughing and proper cultivation
is necessary for Phalaris tuberosa, tall
fescue, fall oat, etc.
Wheat men might profit by sowing
some pasture seed with the wheat in
April or May. Wimmera rye, sub.
clover and lucerne frequently do well
under this method, but with it not more
than 451 b. of wheat seed per acre should
be sown. Clover gets a good start in its
second year by having the wheat stubble
as a straw mulch after stripping.
Whatever the method, Wimmera and
Italian ryes, prairie, sub., ball, burr and
Egyptian clovers should be
sown in autumn or early winter;
English grasses, perennial
clovers, Danthonias and sheep's
burnet generally in autumn,
though districts of cool and wet
springs and summers will re-
spond to early spring seeding;
lucerne mostly in autumn, ex-
cept where winter - growing
weeds might overcome it or the
winters are extremely cold,
when spring sowing is best.
Early sowing (not later than
April) is half the battle, but on good
fallow in dry districts it is wise to wait
for rain—even until July—before sowing
lucerne. Sown on a dry seed bed it will
be patchy and weak.
Soil fertility and moisture govern
seeding rate. High seeding rates for dis-
tricts of high and regular rainfall are
somewhere about 161 b. to 201 b. of seed
per acre. A crowded pasture in a low-
rainfall area (Min. to 20in.) cannot suc-
ceed ; the moisture isn’t in the soil.
Such land should be. lightly seeded; a
rather thin sward is better than no sward.
A crowded stand of lucerne won't stand
up to a dry spell; from 21b. to 41b. an
acre suits dry-spell country.
Sowing through the combine with from
561 b. to 1121 b. of super, per acre is
usually successful. Seed and fertiliser
should be well mixed before being put
into the drill box and stirred occasion-
ally while sowing to prevent seeds ris-
ing to the surface of the super., giving
uneven distribution. Only sufficient for
each day should be mixed; seed mixed
with super, over 36 hours loses its vital-
ity. Sow shallowly. When sowing with
a cover crop of wheat, sow the cereal
at its right depth, then sow the pasture


T ruck'World
gossip •
liilll
SSSSS:?i
mm
m
KsSs
m
s } s<-
SpSp;?S¥S
llitili
M>v
;•:•:$ :
m
Hit
::>*
“My
INTERNATIONAL
is a winner
•• • A TRUE
TRUCK INVESTMENT
ax
w
"When l r d saved enough money, truck-driving for wages,
I made up my mind that an International was the truck for me.
All my mates agreed that an International offered the best
investment for a haulier who planned to stake his little all
on truck work...Tve never looked back ... My Internationals
a winner-always runs true to form over any distance-rough
roads and tough loads make no difference. I take on any
contract with confidence I know shell see me through it.
Whatever your haulage job, there’s a truck in the International line for you.
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER COMPANY
OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
(INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA)
BRISBANE
SYDNEY
MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PERTH
The comprehensive International range includes the following models:
2- 160-in. wheelbase.
3- 155 and 185-in. wheelbases.
4- 156, 170 and 185-in. wheelbases.
5- 190-in. wheelbase.
Utilities and vans
(113 and 125-in. wheelbases).
20-cwt., 136-in. wheelbase.
30-cwt., 1133 and 157-in. wheelbases.
35-cwt., 133 and 157-in. wheelbases.
Also Six-wheelers from 3 to 10-ton capacities in various wheelbases.
£277
CHASSIS PRICES FROM
• ‘ f • (plus tax)
Call on us for full information on any tiitck in the International line
ė
The World’s Best Truck Investment
on top, except where there is a good
moist fallow, when wheat may be sown
shallowly.
Sowing with the broadcaster or fer-
tiliser distributor is the best way on
natural pastures. Progress may not be
evident for the first year, but watch that'
pasture grow afterwards! If paddocks
are too large for a wholesale sowing,
cultivate strips through them and sow
free-seeder grasses, clovers or lucerne.
They’ll soon spread if not flogged out
and provided they are top-dressed occa-
sionally.
Tobacco Technique,
“Zedo”: In the final stages tobacco
growth is a contest between the leaf,,
which is tobacco, and the flower, which
isn’t, along with some superfluous growth
which plays the part of a dole-taker.
Tobacco pruning—as much an art as
pruning a fruit tree —can be learnt only
by experience. Usually it should be done
in two stages. As soon as one or two
flowers begin to open, do away with all
blossom. Wait a week or so, then begin
to top off such leaves as seem to be waste.
If this is done before rain, there may be
a good deal of new growth and an
abnormal sap flow to the parts of the
plant which have not been amputated.
Enough leaves must be kept to use up
surplus flow. In dry times, the plant
must be balanced so that there will be
no shortage.
To reduce height too much usually
produces, coarseness and in uneven rain-
fall seasons a leaf breakdown. If top-
ping is too high, the result may be
narrow and flimsy leaf. Every grower
must study his own conditions and his
own plants. The only certain thing about
the business is that a happy medium can
be struck for every healthy plant and
that both deflowering and topping are
necessary to the production of sound
tobacco.
Why Not More Olives?
“Chok Fena”: Why doesn’t Australia
go in more widely for olives?
Hardy, and giving good shade and ex-
cellent as windbreaks, they suit most areas
of s.-e. Australia 100 miles or so from
the coast and give little trouble. They
prefer a mild winter and warm summer,
wintry rain and a loam type of soil
whether clay, gravel or sandy does not
matter much.
For oil-production they are not pay-
able unless about 60 tons of olives per
season is available for treatment, but
the other advantages should make them
worth while to Australia even if no oil
at all Were produced.
Three Bunches of Bananas.
“Bull-ant Bill”: Banana-growing is
not the sort of occupation which leads
to Rolls-Royce cars and half-dollar
smokes, but the recent sale of three
bunches of Cavendishes, containing 54
dozen, for £8 2s. at the Brisbane market
is causing some of us to look with less
apprehension at the mortgage.
Grown at Cramp’s Creek, near Tweed
Heads (N.S.W.), they measured from Bin.
to lOin. apiece, and were of perfect
quality. A curious and illuminating
feature was that they were grown on
blady-grass country, which is usually re-
garded as unsuitable for banana-culture,
and during a particularly long dry spell.
Had anyone told my granddad that
bananas would some day fetch 3s. a
dozen at the Brisbane market, he would
have regarded that person as fully certi-
fiable for belfry-bats. Yet he grew the
first bananas on the Tweed, and samples
of the rich soils of the vast scrubs were
described by his friend Joseph Hooker,
of the Royal Kew Gardens, as showing
the world’s best analytical indication for
banana-culture on a commercial scale.
(Continued on next page.)


There’s a difference which
. . . wear alone can prove
You may not be able to tell the
difference in the quality of two
new Shoes, even though one may
be of an inferior grade.
But wear them for six months and
compare them again, and you will
see how far superior is the appear-
ance of the better quality shoe.
And in wear you will have felt the
difference in fit and comfort
which quality alone can give.
WRITE FOR A CATALOGUE.
ABBEY SHOES
316 GEORGE ST., 224 PITT ST.,
SYDNEY.
Telegraphic Address:
‘ABBEY BOOTS, SYDNEY .
45/-
Made in Black Velour Calf and
Brown Willow Calf and stocked in
full and half sizes, with medium
and wide fittings.
Price:
Black Velour Calf .... 457-
Brown Willow Calf . . . 45/-
THEY ALL WANT IT.
BECAUSE THEY NEED IT.
lIIIIHI
m
mm
uum^jU)
.^9mrjri&jWr. TC'.'VrvJ v&*f*^
•£• m
.
•*»
2 /
*#
■
r jr.<r''''".
■ Cjmxii iiiiliii:;; }::s ;;?■#:
• &A- Yri^jyi
fi
tLJLiJIiiLJT.JI
■ii: I
li !i
«fcfe
ssga
UU
if**—"Jflf—f^fTC
;m! riJ ii!;S!:S;
WJ
MttK
H
fcp
kV*'/
///.£-."■• ;A:',
•4pAr~#is'f
IfShV ' '
M § f
PfPff
<p.
C$
Si! <:•■!•■;:::
IT j
1
* I "
m /,,
€
, ii*:
h:.- l.f
-V-
-1
fpwrwzfy
' ■%
w.«;k
~7Asi flcune/s
Q) c CdUuros
U/AisAy is-
ouiuiiiuiiiiuiiniiiiiuiiuiimiiiiiiimiiiiiiiiiiiiiuuisiuiuiiuiiiiiiiiKiuiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiuiiiimißnraiis
Distributors for the House of McCallum:
Goldsbrough, Mort & Co., Ltd., Sydney, Lionel Samson & Son - - - Fremantk
Melbourne and Brisbane.
Gibbs, Bright & Co. Adelaide Macfarlane Bros. & Co. • - - - Hobart
THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Friday
Is the most popular 64-page woman’s
paper published in the Coinmon-
• wealth. It features everything a
woman ought to know. Once you
read it you will never be without it.
Its up-to-date weekly pattern is
free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
. 252 George Street, Sydney.
T^ie’^idleix/rL
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/8, post free.
Treating Grassland.
“Sandy”: Grassland should be har-
rowed in the autumn when the grass is
short. Vic. Agricultural Department
tests have shown that the manure gives
the benefit and heavy pasture harrows
are unnecessary.
A clod-crusher with a row of spikes
in the drawbar is a good implement.
Worn-out cultivation harrows with wire-
netting fastened underneath or barbed
wire wound round them do a good job,
especially in rainy weather.
Heavy harrows, however, are useful
in dirty, tussocky country or in pas-
palum pastures. The latter need plough-
ing about every five years, or they
become root-bound.
British farmers have found it more
profitable to spread farmyard manure
on grassland than to cultivate. And
wide use of farm manure means clean
cowyards.
Broom Millet.
“Hortus”: Two consignments of new
season’s crop realised £67 10s. 3d. per
ton in Sydney lately—more than double
the price at opening sales last year.
Ninety per cent, of the N.S.W. crop
is produced on rich alluvial North Coast
lands, but any land producing 40 or
more bushels of maize will yield profit-
able returns. Best soil is deep, rich, well-
drained alluvial river flats, but millet
does quite well on sandy or gravelly
ground. Drainage is the main point;
millet won’t thrive on waterlogged
ground.
In the general rotation wherever maize
has been grown millet will fit in. Don’t
grow crops of it continuously in one pad-
dock. It does best after a legume—
lucerne or field-peas.
Prepare ground thoroughly and get rid
of weeds; millet is delicate in early
stages, and weeds choke it easily. Plough
deeply a couple of months before sow-
ing. Plough again, this time shallow.
Harrow well. Get a nice friable few
inches of topsoil. Roll, if possible, when
sowing.
Don’t sow until frost is over. Sep-
tember, October and November are the
best months, but it can be sown on
N.S.W. Northern Rivers up till the end
of January. Make drills 4in. or sin.
deep, 3ft. to apart; a double mould-
board plough does the job best, and an
ordinary maize seed-drill with a
sorghum or millet plate is needed. If
soil is moist, you need not open out
drills with a plough. Seed should be
31b. to 61b. to the acre. Fertiliser does
not seem to do any appreciable good
to the crop, though super, will help the
root-formation, and the quicker the
young plants grow the better.
When plants are 6in. high, thin out
to sin. or 6in. The quality of brush is
affected by the thinning ; too much space
between plants produces too coarse a
brush, too little space causes a fine and
weak brush.
After thinning a cultivator should be
kept going to keep surface soil loose and
friable.
Harvest in warm, dry weather. For
baling the most satisfactory thing is a
box-press, like a wool-press. This keeps
the butts even, and is simple to operate.
A convenient market size is 2^cwt.
The yield ranges from lOcwt. to 15cwt.
of clean, marketable brush and 25 to
30 bushels of seed per acre.
Don’t try broom millet except as a
permanent crop ; the apparatus needed
is too expensive for experiments.
Mechanical Fence-post Driller.
“R.F.C.”: A rapid post-hole bor-
ing machine, capable of drilling one
mile of 352 sheep-proof fence-posts in
a day, involving the boring of 2112
holes, has been invented by C. W. Free,
a wheat-farmer of Heddington Hill,
Allora (Q.).
Apart from the advantage of speed
which this instrument has over the hand-
controlled brace and bit, it has an easy-
handling flexible lead which enables
holes to be bored at any acute angle,
between existing lines of wire, and close
to the ground.
Carried on a car footboard, the driller
is connected by belt pulley with a counter-
shaft on the floor of the car, which in
turn is connected to the clutch shaft.
With the. engine running at idling
speed, the bit, attached to a long, flex-
ible driving propeller shaft, is turned at
the rate of , 1000 revs, a minute.
The inventor designed the machine to
convert a cattle, paddock into a sheep-
proof enclosure, without disturbing
existing wires.
Hints for the Farm.
, “L.F.P.”: Don’t leave all the small
oranges at home. Counts of 150 to 216
are preferred in present market. Even
extremely small fruit is popular.
“Hortus”: One teaspoon of turpentine
to two wineglasses of raw linseed oil is
a cheap remedy for worms in pigs. (Dose
for 1001 b. pig.) After 24 hours give a
dose of castor oil.
“Salmon Gums”: If water supply for
irrigation is salty, have, the suction of
the pump as near the surface as possible.
By floating a flat board just above the
foot-valve to do away with an air-suc-
tion vortex, it is possible to pump from
3in. or 4in. below the surface.
“Bays”: When installing a pump make
sure that the belt pulls from the bottom
of the pump pulley. This puts the slack
of the belt on top, causing it to wrap
downwards over the top of the pulley,
and prevents it from slipping.
“M.L.W.”: When buying a saddle or
having one made be sure that the “D’s”
are not less than lin. across and hung
on good leather. Many saddlers use
small “D’s” because they look neat, but
they soon tear out, and a saddle without
“D’s” is like a boot without laces.
“Gumblegubbin”: If you haven’t a
ratchet brace and want to bore a hole
in a corner or other place where an
ordinary brace can’t be turned, a knob
off the door, stuck on the squared end
of the bit', will do the job.
“Valerin”: When building sheepyards
in sandy or dusty country, keep the fence
at least Sin. off the ground to allow sand
or dust to drift out and be carried away
by the wind.
“M.L.W.”: Scrub harness thoroughly
with hot water and soft soap and rinse
well in clean water to remove all sweat.
Before the leather has properly dried,
apply a coat of equal parts neatsfoot and
draught castor oil with a varnish brush.
Apply a second coat after the first has
soaked in. Leather treated regularly in
this manner will remain soft and un-
cracked. Important points are that
thorough washing is as important as
thorough oiling, and that the oiling
should be done while the leather is still
damp and pliable.
“Condamine”: J. T. Scrymgeour, the
blind Shorthorn breeder of Warwick (Q.),
uses loz. pot. nitrate to 4gal. water in
treating three-day-sickness patients. At
any rate, the potion is a good tempera-
ture-reducer.
“F.N.”: This season’s method of buy-
ing Queensland factory pineapples by
weight, instead of by the case, is a step
in the right direction. Growers now for-
ward their fruit without tops, and mark
the weight on each case, as well as the
brand. There may be a spot of trouble
occasionally when new unseasoned
timber is used, it being possible for cases
to lose from 31b. to 41b. each in three
days between packing in the shed to
checking in the factory, but that can be
remedied by adopting a standard timber
and a standard case.
“C.V.S.”: Daggy sheep interfere with
the smooth running of a shed. Shearers
become dissatisfied and bustle to make
up lost time. Small dags get into the
locks and large ones break through the
thrown fleece, hampering the rollers.
The harassed piece-picker, unable to cope
with the extra work, perforce dumps his
wool. When sheep are daggy, put men
to work on them with blades before the
sheep enter the shed, sitting the animals
on a board on six-inch supports. Do
not dag shortly before shearing if feed
is still green, as dags will form again
close to the skin on the shorter wool,
and cannot be removed.
“5.8.”: It has been proved that
Queensland can grow its own flax for
bags, instead of depending on India for
supplies ; but methods so far have been
top-heavy. Some Darling Downs flax
was first treated, in a preliminary way,
at Redbank. Then it was sent' to Sydney
to be spun, and finally returned to
Ipswich, where it was woven into bag-
ging. The finished article was voted
superior to imported jute bags. Of
course, the Queensland price is more
than the Indian, but the local bags could
be used several times, and so the cost
would be greatly lessened. Flax growing
and treatment should be tackled seriously
and at once.
“Dimon”: Three of the best scav-
engers for cleaning up carcasses in which
blowflies breed are the wedge-tailed
eagle, the brown hawk and the crow.
Yet some P.P. Boards pay 6d. to Is. a
head for the destruction of these birds.
Also, the crow is slaughtered for the
ill-doings of the raven, which it closely
resembles, and the eagle for taking an
occasional weak lamb. Before these
birds were killed, there was little or no
trouble from the blowfly; and, far inland,
plagues of native rats have resulted from
the slaughter of brown hawks.


I
m
: ■
TOR
. : .
CURI
vmmm
r
fev
. -
*3 *
&SB®
HHj
MP ' -
GO down to your chemist or
store and buy a bottle of
Bidomak if your husband is
showing signs of irritability.
Nine times out of ten “nerves”
are the cause of bad-temper, and
nerves are caused by “mineral
starvation.” Perhaps that may
seem strange to you—but people
who have tried everything else
have been amazed at the
immediate, quick, happy results
which come from the use of a
mineral food supplement such as
Bidomak. Bidomak contains
the vital food minerals without
which, leading dieticians tell us,
life would be impossible. Its
use as directed changes grumpy,
tired men into fit, well, vigorous
personalities again.
Read These
Remarkable Letters
34 Herbert Street, Dulwich Hill, N.S.W.,
9tli February, 1936.
Douglas Drug Co.
Dear Sir, —I would like to explain to you
the amazing result that 1 gained mentally and
physically from “Bidomak.”
I work as a Terazzo hand, which is very
hard work.
Somehow, l became very run dpwn and
nervy, and found by ten o’clock in the morning
that I had exhausted the whole of my energy
and could not go on. Approaching Xmas, as
usual in the building trade, there is a general
falling-off of trade and a general retrenchment
takes place in all industries directly connected
with the building trade. I knew for certain l
was marked down to be put off work.
In desperation I visited a Chemist. He
impressed me to try “Bidomak.” Fortunate for
me I did. With the first bottle I knew that it
was doing me a lot of good, so 1 just kept it
up. My nervy feelings disappeared, I regained
my energy, 100 p.c. sleep is a pleasure, eating
also, and the amount of work l am able to do
has placed me in my job, therefore you will
understand that I really have given “Bidomak”
a good, fair trial and can with every convic-
tion give a reliable testimonial.
I can safely say that “Bidomak” really did
this for me, gave me a new lease of life, kept
me in employment and is keeping me as fit
as the proverbial fiddle. “Bidomak” does really
give lost energy back.
Yours faithfully,
(Signed) STEPHEN BARRY.
Marvellous Results from “Bidomak”
Not Rubbish—Really Genuine.
[Copy] South Kensington, Sydney, N.S.W.,
23rd July, 1936.
The Douglas Drug Co.
Dear Sir, —I cannot sufficiently thank you
for “Bidomak.” The results are marvellous,
even after the first dose I felt the benefit,
having been recommended by my chemist to
take it. I have taken many tonics, but never
anything like “Bidomak.” It is also very nice
to take. I shall take care to pass it on to
everybody I meet, and wish you every blessing
and success to your firm in the years to come.
There is so much rubbish sold that it is with
deep appreciation I write this to find something
which is really genuine.
Yours sincerely, (Signed) R.C.
Benefit Guaranteed
OR YOU PAY NOTHING
So many nerve sufferers have obtained
immediate relief from BIDOMAK that if
you do not benefit from the first bottle we
will refund your money within 14 days of
purchase on its return, nearly empty, to
the Douglas Drug Co. Thus we guarantee
you positive relief or you pay nothing.
HOW MINERAL STARVATION CAN BE RECOGNISED
The loss of mineral elements in the body is due to the strain and stress of modern life and
the fact that these losses are not replaced by our daily food supply. To begin with, they
show themselves in an insidious loss of energy and vitality. The power to concentrate is lost.
Then other symptoms crowd upon the sufferer. He loses his spirit, the desire to exert
himself fails—his appetite weakens —he gets oversensitive and quick tempered.
Sometimes he becomes the victim of indigestion* neuritis* headaches and subject to fits of
depression. Altogether the mineral-starved man becomes a less efficient member of society.
The more youthful jump over his head in business. Socially, he becomes a back number.
Thus, through lack of vital mineral food he loses his ability to enjoy life and to win success.
No wonder he "snaps,” even at those most dear to him.
What a tragedy this is! But it need be a tragedy no longer. Bidomak can now replace the
vital minerals and bring the sufferer back to vigour and vitality. Energy returns —life looks
brighter—daily tasks become easy—the power of concentration returns —temper improves
and irritability vanishes—confidence grows quickly as vigour and nerve strength return. It
is like a miracle how the ferrum, calcium, sodium, potash, phosphates, glycerophosphates
and sucrose in Bidomak combine to provide a new savour to life, even in the worst cases.
No Dangerous Drugs
Remember, too, that Bidomak is a food. It contains no bitter, dangerous narcotic drugs
nor opiates. On the other hand, Bidomak is safe for the youngest children, who take it
readily because of its very pleasant flavour. Get a bottle from your chemist or store TO-DAV.
BIDOMAK
ei The Tonic of the Century* 9
ALL N
CHEMISTS
AND
STORES
,3 4
■
sfl
y>Y.K9.
m
ill
vm
smfi&lSSi #«&#<»: w item
>»rt <£>*■■*
■:•:•%<.■■ ■• •>» >. ii. >vT*v*v^
Iriill
cow?
For Women and Children Too !
No other tonic is so good for all as Bidomak. Not only
men, but women and children too, find new life and vigour
in the big Bidomak bottle. Benefit is guaranteed or you
may have your money back.
THESE ARE THE BENEFITS
GIVEN BY BIDOMAK
1. Ends Mineral Starvation by providing ferrum,
calcium, potassium, sodium, phosphates, gly-
cerophosphates and sucrose.
2. Gives you a good appetite.
3. Brings sweet sleep.
4. Strengthens nerves,
5. Relieves stomach upsets.
6. Builds energy, “pep” and endurance.
7. Clears out body wastes from every cell of the
body by increasing the amount of oxygen in
the blood stream.
8. Creates rich red blood, new healthy nerve cells
and nerve fluid.
9. Makes you feel well all over!


Short Story
c Writing
tyree Lance
Journalism
Learn and Earn The most thorough and practical
in Spare Time ! Course of Training ever written!
Instruction and Constructive Criticism by Practical
Journalists and Short Story Writers . . . You learn
how to write and how to sell your stories and articles.
Full details sent on application to
I.C. S. School oS Journalism
140 Elizabeth Street, Sydney
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq-;
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq.. O.M.G.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 9"
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, tins
Bank°offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business^
Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
■readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
Ihe right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell" or “To Let" notices are not admissible.
Wants.
TcKbuy second-hand copy of Cheiro’s Book
of Numbers. —4805.
Sharefarmer wanted, must be exp. market
gardener. Land, seed, manure, motor-truck and
rotary hoe supplied. Near Frankston (Vic.). —
4870.
Chemist, Sydney, returned soldier, qualified,
wide exp., wants position, part-time only.—
4867.
To buy or borrow Stamp Collecting, by
Stanley Phillips; also other philatelic literature
from which broadcast talks could be compiled.
—4864.
Information Sought.
Scores made by Bradman in Test matches,
and where played? —4B26.
In Australia, 1928-29, 18 and 1 at Brisbane;
79 and 112 at Melbourne; 40 and 58 at Adel-
aide; 123 and 37 not out at Melbourne. In
England, 1930, 8 and 131 at Nottingham; 254
and 1 at Lord’s; 334 at Leeds; 14 at Man-
chester; 232 at Kennington Oval. In Aus-
tralia, 1932-33, 0 and 103 not out at Melbourne;
8 and 66 at Adelaide; 76 and 24 at Brisbane;
48 and 71 at Sydney. In England, 1934, 29
and 25 at Nottingham; 36 and 13 at Lord’s;
30 at Manchester; 304 at Leeds; 244 and 77
at Kennington Oval. In Australia, 1936-37, 38
and 0 at Brisbane; 0 and 82 at Sydney; 13 and
270 at Melbourne; 26 and 212 at Adelaide.
(Fifth Test was not finished at time of compila-
tion of figures.)
* * * *
(1) How many times has W. Hammond
toured Australia with English cricket teams?
(2) What are his scores in Test matches in Aus-
tralia ? —4869.
(1) In 1928-29, 1932-33, 1936-37. (2) In 1928-
29, 44 and 28 at Brisbane; 251 at Sydney; 200
and 32 at Melbourne; 119 n.o. and 177 at Adel-
aide; 38 and 16 at Melbourne. In 1932-33,
112 at Sydney; 8 and 23 at Melbourne; 2 and
85 at Adelaide; 20 and 14 at Brisbane; 101
and 75 not out at Sydney. In 1936-37, 0 and
25 at Brisbane; 231 not out at Sydney; 32
and 51 at Melbourne ; 20 and 39 at Adelaide.
Fifth Test is not decided at time of writing.
* * * *
In cutting for deal at auction bridge, which
card is the lowest ? Assuming that the ace is
lowest, does the same apply to most other card
games? —4Bl9.
Strictly, in the cut for auction bridge, the ace
is counted as the lowest card, but most Aus-
tralian players prefer to give the cards their
bridge value—ace high. Rules in most card
games, if they make any mention of the matter,
merely say that the players must “cut for deal.”
* * * *
I was the dealer in a six-handed game of
euchre. One of my opponents ordered me up
and went alone. Am I allowed to go alone
against him ? —4820.
No. Your opponent is an “elder hand” and
his bid must stand. But you could supersede a
partner’s bid to go alone.
* * * *
Two men are carrying out a fencing job in
N.S.W. at so much per post and so much per
running mile of wire, with food provided. In
the event of an accident to either would
.workers’ compensation be payable? —4605.
For the N.S.W. Act to apply there must
exist the relationship of master and servant, and
whether this relationship exists is a question of
fact for the determination of which it is neces-
sary to consider carefully the character and
terms of the engagement, payment of wages
or remuneration, power of dismissal and power
of controlling the work of the alleged servant.
You do not supply the information under these
headings necessary before a reply can be given.
* * * *
If a returned soldier (full pension ) dies, does
his wife still continue to receive full pension ?
There are two children. —4715.
If death is not attributable to war service,
pensions, of widow and children continue at the
rate in force at the date of his death. If death
is attributable to war service, widow’s pension
is increased to “widow’s rate” and children’s
pensions to rate payable in respect of death.
Pension of a widow ceases upon her remarriage,
and pensions of children cease upon their
attaining 16.
* * * *
7 am thinking of taking a course at Sydney
Technical College. What are the prospects of
a position as a meat, food or factory in-
spector ? —4555.
The positions are usually held by qualified
persons holding a certificate from Sydney Tech-
nical College or Royal Sanitary Institute,
London. Prospects of employment are some-
what limited. Meat inspectors are employed at
the abattoirs, and are usually selected from those
who have been connected with the butchering
business. Food inspectors are appointed by the
Department of Public Health from health in-
spectors who have had previous experience in
some shire or municipal council. Factory in-
spectors are connected with the Department of
Labor and Industry and selected from engineers
who have taken a course in factory inspection
at the college. Health inspectors are engaged
by all municipal councils, and the course of
study embraces all the subjects required in the
positions referred to.
What are the usual terms between author
and publisher ? —4613.
The royalty system adopted by most large
publishing houses is probably the best. Pub-
lisher pays an agreed percentage of sales —
usually 10 p.c.; sometimes up to 15 p.c. Some
contracts provide for higher royalties when
sales exceed 1000 copies. Payment in advance
of royalties is frequently made, but rarely for
a first book. Contract provides for film,
serial and subsidiary rights. An author some-
times bears_ production costs and pays pub-
lisher commission on sales. Outright sale is now
restricted to educational, juvenile and commis-
sioned works. See The Australian Authors
and Artists’ Handbook, 1937.
* * * *
(1) Distance of railway line between Quean-
beyan and Canberra, and when was it opened
for traffic ? (2) Whereabouts in Canberra is the
terminus ? (3) What has been done about the
proposed Canberra-Jervis Bay line? —4811.
(1) 4\ miles; opened for goods traffic on
May 25, 1914, and for passenger traffic on
October 15, 1923. (2) In the area known as
Kingston. (3) There has been a trial survey,
and plans have been prepared to enable an esti-
mate of cost to be made, but no action is con-
templated at present.
* * * *
General information regarding Mallison
Island, near Arnhem 8ay? —4244.
Lying westward of and close to Cape New-
bald and forming the eastern side of the
entrance to Arnhem Bay, it is a little over three
miles long (from east to west) and one-and-a-
half miles in breadth. It is of moderate eleva-
tion and cliffy, the summit being composed of
sandstone. On its southern side there is an
anchorage of five fathoms within a few yards
of a small sandy beach, where there is a
stream of fresh water, but the northern side is
dangerous to navigators. The island is sepa-
rated from the Cape by an opening 1000 yards
wide, perilously strewn with rocks.
***:(!
(1) Weight of a good specimen, of a full-
grown Australian fox? (2) To what weight has
the fox been known to grow ? (3) Will the fox
cross with domestic dogs or with the dingo ?
4744.
(1) Not recorded. (2) That of an English
male, regarded as one of the largest seen by
an authority, was given as 191 b. It is generally
considered that the Australian fox grows to a
larger size under good conditions. (3) Chambers’s
Encyclopcedia says the fox and dog have been
successfully crossed, but details are not avail-
able. There are no records of a dingo-fox
cross.
* * * *
(1) What does the course of instruction to
qualify for the diploma of the Australian
Forestry School involve? (2) From whom can
I secure particulars regarding entry to N.S.W.
forestry service ? —4834.
(1) Two years’ prerequisite University course,
then two years’ diploma course at the Aus-
tralian Forestry School and one year’s practical
forestry work. No fees are charged for the
two years’ course at the Forestry School. (2)
From the secretary, N.S.W. Forestry Commis-
sion, Box 2667EE, G.P.0., Sydney.
* =i= *
(1) My model A Ford car is fitted with Hou-
daille shock-absorbers. Do they require occa-
sional attention to keep them in working order ?
(2) How are they adjusted when out of order ?
—4799.
(1) Shock-absorber oil should be occasionally
placed in the outer cup via the hexagonal plug,
but the absorber will have to be dismantled
to replenish the inner cup and to clean valves,
etc. The square ends of the arms should be
kept firm on the spindles by tightening the
pinch bolts. Ball joints should be greased and
kept free from looseness, and absorbers should
be kept tight on frame of car. (2) They should
be overhauled by a Ford repair station. Ap-
proximate cost, 10s. per absorber.
* t- * *
Is there ever any water in a camel’s hump ?
—4795.
_ No. The hump of a camel consists of fatty
tissue and varies in size according to good or
bad seasons or age. It would reach maximum
size in rainy seasons, but this would have no-
thing to do with conserving water. The fluid-
storing ability of camels is provided in the first
two stomach compartments, in which a number
of cells or pouches can be closed by muscular
action.
* * * *
(1) Particulars of loss of Titanic, including
name and fate of captain ? (2) Particulars of
loss of Lusitania? —4875.
(1) On April 15, 1912, the Titanic, a White
Star liner, struck an iceberg about 500 miles
south of Newfoundland while bound from
Southampton for New York on her maiden
voyage; two hours 40 minutes later she sank,
with a loss of 1503 of her 2208 passengers and
crew. Most of those saved were women and
children, male survivors consisting almost en-
tirely of the lifeboat crews. Captain E. J.
Smith, in common with nearly all the officers,
was drowned. (2) The Cunarder Lusitania,
torpedoed off the coast of Ireland, May 7, 1915,
went down with 1198 souls. Before the vessel
left New York the German Embassy issued
a warning against travelling on British vessels
entering the war zone, but many passengers em-
barked. Among prominent Americans lost were
Charles Frohman, Alfred G. Vanderbilt, Justus
Miles Forman (novelist and playwright) and
Elbert Hubbard.
* * * *
(1) Do booksellers place standing orders with
publishers for certain quantities of all new pub-
lications, or do retailers make their own selec-
tions from publishers’ lists ? (2) Are books
purchased outright by retailers or are they
allowed to return unsold books ? (3) On what
basis are authors’ royalties calculated —on
quantities distributed to retailers or on periodical
reports of sales from retailers ? —4877.
(1) For books by popular authors there may
be standing orders, but usually advance copies
are sent to retailers before publication date and
they place orders after reading the books.
(2) Outright as a rule, though some houses
send them out on sale or return. (3) On
quantities sent out on firm sale (that is, not
for return if unsold) and on those' not re-
turned after specified time if on sale or return.
* * * *
When vvoi the Victoria Cross instituted, and
where is it worn ? Brief description of decora-
tion ?- —4812.
Instituted January 29, 1856; worn before all
other decorations, on the left breast. A bronze
Maltese cross, in diameter, with the royal
crown surmounted by a lion in the centre; be-
neath is inscribed “For Valour.” The ribbon
is crimson for all services.
$
(1) Formula for calculating greatest possible
number of circles of given size that may be
inscribed (without overlapping) within a circle
of a given size ? (2) What is the greatest
number of circles \in. in diameter that can
be inscribed within a circle of 12 in. diameter?
—4757.
(1) Cannot trace any geometrical treatise
that gives a general formula. Two circles half
the diameter of the greater can be inscribed
within it without overlapping. Seven circles one-
third the diameter can be accommodated exactly,
and 10 circles one-quarter the diameter are all
that can be found room for. Beyond that you’ll
have to experiment for yourself. (2) As stated,
cannot give a general rule. You can ascertain
by drawing it, starting with circles touching the
circumference.
Sj* * # S$C
(1) Dale of birth, brief biographical informa-
tion and major compositions of Franz Lehar?
(2) Alfred Hill? (3) Kilperrier ?— 4746.
(1) Born April 30, 1870, at Komarom, Hun-
gary. Studied violin and became military musi-
cal director at Losoncz and later director of
the Austrian Navy Band. Has written about
30 operettas, of which “The Merry Widow,”
“Gipsy Love” and “The Count of Luxembourg”
have earned world-wide fame. (2) Born Mel-
bourne, date not disclosed. Received musical
training at Leipzig Con. Conductor of Orches-
tral Society at Wellington, M.L., for four years;
subsequently had liedertafel and theatrical ex-
perience in Sydney, and then joined staff of
N.S.W. Con., from which he resigned a year
or so ago to conduct a school of music of his
own. Has composed operas, operettas, sonatas,
many miscellaneous pianoforte pieces, and
songs. Of the last-named “Waiata Poi” attained
wide popularity. Hill made a study of the
Maoris, their legends and music while in M.L.,
and many of his compositions have Maori
themes. (3) Cannot trace this composer. Even
the “Etude” collection of brief biographies,
published serially, and supposed to be encyclo-
pasdic, does not mention the name.
* * *
(1) Names °f some of the best violin solo
records suitable for a small phonograph ? (2)
Where obtainable? (3) Price? (4) Melba’s best
record and price? —47ll.
(1) and (3) DAls37—“Legende” (Wieniaw-
ski), “Meditation” (Massenet), Mischa Elman;
Bs. DAl2l4—“Serenade” (Drdla), “Serenade”
(Drigo), Mischa Elman; ss. 6d. D 0916—
“Poem” (Fibich), “Le Cygne” (Saint-Saens),
Wolfi; 4s. LoB—“Adieu” (Elgar), “Serenade”
(Elgar), Joseph Szigeti; ss. 6d. (2) J. S. John-
ston, Ltd., Queen Victoria Buildings, George-
street, Sydney. (4) DB346—“Ah! fors e lui”
(“La Traviata”) and “Caro Nome” (“Rigo-
letto”); Bs.
* * * *
Cause of an ice-chest sweating and leaving a
mildewed appearance on the varnish, and how
can this be removed ? —4758.
Varnish containing inferior materials or
varnish improperly applied will cause greying.
Sweating from the chest should be impossible
if insulation is correct. Remove varnish with
a patent varnish-remover, sandpaper wood to a
smooth finish and either revarnish or give a
couple of coats of one of the new colored
lacquers. If you cannot make a new job of it,
wipe the chest over several times with a cloth
soaked in methylated spirit.
aj: Jj; ijs
Instructions for priming artists’ canvas? —■
4696.
Coat with size or good-quality paint in a
neutral tint; six months is the usual time for
letting it stand before using. All artists’ canvas,
stretched and unstretched, sold in Sydney
comes ready primed from the makers, and is
safer than any amateur job.
How can I preserve or crystallise, whichever
is the more suitable, the fruit of the Asiatic
jujube-tree ? —4691.
Crystallising is slow and requires skill; pre-
serving should be satisfactory. Use wide jars
with clamped glass tops, and use new rubbers
each time. Clean the fruits, which should be
ripe but not soft, and pack them into the jars,
using a wooden stick to press gently as many as
possible into the space. Boil a syrup of one
level tablespoon of sugar to each breakfast cup
of water, set aside to cool, then pour over the
fruit in the jars, quite full. Place rubbers and
tops in position but not fastened down tightly,
stand jars up to their shoulders in a saucepan
of cold water, bring to the boil, and boil for
eight minutes, then fasten down the tops se-
curely while hot. Test for leakages by standing
upside down for a few minutes; if airtight,
allow to cool, and store in a cool, dry place. If
the jars leak, make very hot again and then
make airtight by adjusting and setting tops.
Method of destroying cockroaches in an old
house? —4713.
Leave no food uncovered for the insects, and
cover or burn all waste. Stop fireplace cracks
and crannies with patching plaster, and fill
likely entrances round skirtings, windows and
doors; but before closing these haunts spray
or slop kerosene freely into them. Also spray
kerosene into dark corners, under furniture,
under tables and behind cupboards. A good
spraying once a week, preferably after dark
with the aid of a torch, should rout the main
body. Hatchings will take place all the time for
about three or four weeks, so you should keep
up the treatment for about a month to make a
good clearance.
Brief Answers.
T.G.: (1) Shake well, then lay out on a table
and sponge each side freely with petrol. Roll
up for a day, then again shake well. If neces-
sary, sponge again. Keep away from fires.
Kerosene will serve if petrol is unobtainable-
very hot water is also effective. (2) A horse of
pure breeding; usually applied only to pedi-
greed racing stock... .J.O’R.: John Boyle
O Reilly s novel of Westralian life, Moondyne,
was published by George Robertson, Mel-
bourne, in 1880; Songs of the Southern Seas, a
book of verse, was published in Boston, and
later included in a volume entitled Songs
Legends and Ballads. Statues in the Block
verse, was published in Boston, 1881. Tyrrell’s’,
281 George-street, Sydney, may be able to
supply Moondyne. O’Reilly’s life, written by
James Geoffry Rocke, was published by
Cassell H.E.R.: The two singers mentioned
have been heard in Australasia only through
the medium of screen and gramophone record-
ings. Their respective merits (as so recorded)
are a matter of taste. The Bulletin’s Sydney
music critic considers Miss Moore has the
more colorful voice, but that Miss Pons is the
more polished singer... .T.J.0.: No; better
throw the whole lot away. It is a fungus living
on dregs of vinegar, and can be dangerous to
your health. Good vinegar is so cheap that
nothing is gained by trying to make it
B. : The five highest mountain peaks in the
world are in the Himalayas, India —Mounts
Everest (29,141 ft.), Godwin-Austen (28,250 ft.),
Kanchenjunga (28,146 ft.), Nanga-Parbat
(26,629 ft.) and Kamat (25,431 ft.). The next
five highest are in the Andes, S. America—
Illampu (25,248 ft.), Illimani (24,633 ft.), Acon-
cagua (23,074 ft.), Chimborazo (20,498 ft.) and
Lulhalluco (20,244 ft.). Mount Blanc, in the
Alps, is way down on the list with 15,781 ft„
and Cook, the highest peak in Australasia, is
12,350 ft F.F.: Make a personal visit to the
Civil Aviation Department, Mascot Aerodrome,
taking your plans and specifications with you.
R.U.: Write W. H. Paling and Co., 338
George-street, Sydney... .H.L.: The Manchester
Ship Canal (England) was opened in 1894;
length 35i miles, depth 26ft., width 120 ft., cost
£15,500,000 C.A.: Birrimba is a N.S.W. abo.
word meaning “plover” K. 8.: Obtainable
from N.S.W. Bookstall Co., corner Castlereagh
and Market streets, Sydney R.W.: There is
no cure other than by operation, but many
patients so suffering are able to avoid discom-
fort if instructed in the proper method of
using suitable instruments. You should consult
a specialist in such complaints C.S.: Such
visual defects can be remedied only by the use
of glasses.. Ocular exercises are beneficial, but
the condition will not improve through the use
of the “hot pads” you mention... .J.W.M.:
Cannot recommend any particular firm. Sug-
gest you canvass the trade C.H.8.: Write
Under-Secretary, Department of Territories,
Canberra, F.C.T E.W.: Master Hair-
dressers’ Academy, 267 Elizabeth-street, or Hair-
dressers’ Union class, Sydney Technical Col-
lege, Harris-street—both Sydney E.J.S.: (1)
Approximately 50,000 tons of tinplate imported
and approximately 3800 tons tin produced in
Australia. (2) Australian buyers of tin ore pay
London market price, plus 25 p.c. exchange,
less about Bs. per unit (£2B p.t. of 70 p.c. con-
centrate) for buying, refining and realisation
expenses. (3) No. (4) 395. 6d. per t0n....
C. : John Henry George Crichton, fifth
Earl of Erne, succeeded to the title in 1914
while still a minor, his elder brother, Viscount
Crichton, having been killed in action shortly
before. The seat is at Crom Castle, Newtown-
Butler, Co. Fermanagh, Ireland. The first
baron was Abraham Crichton, who got his title
for military prowess in William lll.’s reign.
The family has no association with Glamis
Castle. Can trace no relationship to a person
of the surname you mention... .H.T.: Boxing
champions at the last Olympic Games were as
follows: Featherweight, O. Casanovas (Argen-
tina) ; fly, W. Kaiser (Germany); bantam,
U. Sergo (Italy); light, I. Harangi (Hungary);
welter, S. Suvio (Finland); middle, J. Despeaux
(France); light-heavy, R. Michelot (France);
and heavy, H. Runge (Germany) J.T.: Write
the Australian Cement Manufacturers’ Assoc.,
43 Margaret-street, Sydney A.8.C.: For
screen tests, make application to the following
firms: Cinesound Productions, Ltd., Ebley-
street, Waverley; Barrier Reef Productions, 14
Martin-place; Australian National Feature
Films, Ltd., 3 Castlereagh-street; Columbia Pic-
tures, 251 a Pitt-street; Commonwealth Film
Laboratories, 296 Pitt-street; Expeditionary
Films, 12 O’Connell-street; Film Players Corp.,
369 George-street; National Productions, Ltd.,
296 Pitt-street; National Studios, Ltd., 369
George-street; Pacific Productions, Ltd., 369
George-street—all Sydney. Melbourne studios:
Apex Films, Ltd., 37 Swanston-street, and
Herschells Pty., Ltd., 31 Agnes-street, East Mel-
bourne... .R.J.P.: See H. M. Green’s An Out-
line of Australian Literature M.H.J.: Bever-
ley Nichols’s The Fool Hath Said has not been
made compulsory reading in Canadian schools;
another book of his, Cry Havoc, is, however,
in use in an abridged edition, the selected por-
tions dealing chiefly with poison gases used in
the war... .W.G.G.: (1) Forward claim to
accountant, stating column, page and date of
publication,. with nom de plume and first line
of par. (2) 2}d. to per line J.M.:
Roy Rene (“Mo”) is still going strong. Nat
Phillips (“Stiffy”), with whom “Mo” was long
associated, died a few years back— (Many
others mailed.)


&
t> t
m
m
An Identification
Problem Solved
When Indian labourers who have completed their service on Fijian
sugarcane fields are returning to India, the Bank of New South
Wales takes special precautions to safeguard their savings.
The Bank’s branches in Fiji take charge of the emigrants savings and
issue to th«m bank drafts payable in India. These drafts bear the
name of the emigrant but the usual system of identification by speci-
men signature cannot be used because many of these men cannot sign
their names.
The Bank overcomes this difficulty by forwarding to the paying bank
in India a photograph of the emigrant, on the back of which is
endorsed his name, his father’s name, his left thumb print and the
number of his Passport or Permit.
This is an example of how the Bank of New South Wales adapts
its services on all occasions to the special needs of its customers.
ms
ESTABLISHED 1817
252A.1937.
WALTHERt STEVENSON ltd
39S CEORCE ST. SYDNEY
FOR
COWBOY SADDLERY
S'°l74
Broncho Saddle
£lB/5/-
(complete).
N.S.W. freight paid for cash with order.
One of the Finest Cowboy
Saddles We Make
TEXAS SPURS
No. 15 1 3—Gold colour with nickel
spot, 30/- per pair. Post 1/-.
No. 6863 Gold colour but with
bison head, 21 /- per pair. Post I /-.
Cowboy Bits, Bridles, Breastplates,
Chaparajos, Tapaderos, etc.
Write for 100-page Saddlery
Catalogue for Full List.
“THE AGE’’
Established 1854.
Victoria's Leading Morning Daily
“The Age” is a household publication whose
subscribers welcome its receipt, depending upon
its news columns for the accurate information
which day by day covers the broadest possible
survey of the world’s happenings, and upon
its advertising columns to bring to their
attention that which is required in their
home or business life.
BECOME A SUBSCRIBER.
You will And “The Age” a congenial news-
paper, with an atmosphere of individual and
personal appeal.
Price lid. per copy at all newsagents and
bookstalls, or 12/- per quarter post free
within the Commonwealth.
“THE AGE” FOR ADVERTISING.
Publishes about 1,000,000
Advertisements Annually.
Advertising rates on application to the principal
Advertising Service Agents in all States or—
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 117 Pitt Street.
London Office: 3 Temple Avenue.
PACIFIC
CANADA
anxL
ATLANTIC
lu CANADIAN AUSTRALASIAN LINERS
" NIAGARA ajnxL AO RAN Cl "
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. LTD.
INC.
IN
N.Z.
247 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY, OR ANY TOURIST AGENT.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
E.F.8.: Is a dislodged hat capable of making
a horse bolt nowadays? ... .W.C.: Though not-
lacking in ingenuity they fall short in other
respects J.F.S.: A bit too recondite for us.
S.F.H.: “Cool, deep rivers,” “soft, green
willows,” “sharp, keen winds," “fresh, green
grass”—you’re too lavish with threadbare epi-
thets L.R.L.:
Three men sat gazing through bushmen’s eyes,
In the saddles of their motionless steeds.
The phrasing is a bit ambiguous, isn t it?....
A.G.8.: “A Bit of Good Advice” just a little
too close to the knuckle... .8.T.: They don’t
make the grade, though “The Bull Frog” wasn’t
far 0ff....8.H.: “I should be glad if you
could publish these verses.” Readers wouldn’t
be glad if we did....C.G.: Appreciated
“Pseudonymity,” but fear the remark which in-
spired it is forgotten... .M.E.M.: The tunnel
idea sounds unconvincing L.M.: Foot-
racing yarn failed to recover from its poor
start... .E.McE.: Some of that shrewd observa-
tion was worthier of a better vehicle....
P.M.L.: When we say we prefer strong meat
it doesn’t mean that we want the stuff high.
W.M.S.: An idea in it; it just fails to crash
the gate... .8.L.L.: Religious-crank stories are
never readable... .J.A.: No new angle on the
old worm-turning theme H.H.: Tightly
packed, but story lacks appeal... .A.R.: That
“country-mug” trick is an old one C. de V.:
You rushed that romance too quickly....
A.M.M.: Social-ambition touch well done, but
the end spoils it P.M.: Some good political
satire lost in the fantasy... .A.H.N.: Doesn’t
justify more than par. length... .E.E.: Nothing
in that sketch... .A.J.M.: More suitable for
magazine section of a daily... .1.M.: Don’t like
that insanity theme C.N.S.: Our risible
muscles refused to budge... .F.K.: Your char-
acters seem a bit mixed, and the treatment is
too melodramatic... .A.L.: Plot isn’t convinc-
ing P.C.: Dialogue natural, but plot fails.
M.B.: Treatment of money-worshipping
subject undistinguished... .E.L.: The least true
to life of this week’s bunch... .F.S.: That
marcelled gigolo would bore even a romantic
flapper... .R.L.S.: Try writing with the other
end of the pen... .M.V.: Sundial-buying cockies
almost as out-of-date as Parkhill... .L.M.N.:
Knock-kneed humor bolstered by jokes with
whiskers on them... .S.R.D.: “Do what you
think best with this.” Matches, boy!
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
N.C.: Gag was on active service when The
Bulletin was born.... W.H.T.: Gent, who
defied Spooner now imprisoned in w.p.b
A.L.: Disregard of perspective has produced
a startling effect S.C.H.: Subject of carica-
ture unrecognisable... .R.D.: Didn’t care for
the niggardly linework and tame jests....
E.W.: A feeble imitation of Aubrey Beardsley
at his worst J.C.P.: Test cartoon belated,
as well as hopelessly drawn... .T.J.: Smudged
and indistinct charcoal effort ended among the
rejects... .F.A.S.: We found the old man a
tedious jester and the angel child an imp....
5.8.: Make your lines more flowing and gags
crisper C.E.L.: What! Is that drunk still
sleeping it off oh his front doorstep?
J.W.: Referendum cartoon missed the bus....
M.N.: Angry words between long freak and
short monstrosity failed to amuse... .L.F.:
Your sentiments unquestionable; your draw-
ings the reverse... .G.G.: The larger you do
them the worse they seem to get... .A.R.: Pic-
ture of Dobbin is an injustice to that noble
animal M.H.: Yes, we buy acceptable jokes
without drawings at 7s. 6d. a time... .F.W.D.:
Tilly and Milly are angular frumps!.. .J.C.:
Promising; but you’re trying compositions as
yet beyond your ability... .N.G.: Your initials
serve as an answer J.R.W.: Deadbeat with
bag of snakes shooed hurriedly out of the
office J.O’R.: No better than what the
bad boy of the class chalks on the black-
board in the teacher’s absence... .T.M.P.:
Blotchy and scratchy, plus humorless ideas....
A.S.R.: Bright in patches, but the whole is
a washout... .W.D.: A Test match? More
like wooden busts poised above a field of
maddened cockroaches A.S.: Make them
bigger, with more detail C.E.C.: Idea not
worth the space... .JJ. (East Malvern): Merely
a yawn-provoker... .A.J.: Where is the fun
in the idea? ... .R.8.L.: Nudist-colony draw-
ing turned to the wa11... .J.A.8.: Figures out
of proportion... .E.J.: A disorderly display ot
shaky linework.
A MIXED GRILL.
Canada is well ahead of Australia as
a gold-producer. Its total for 1936 was
3,720,505 fine ounces, valued at
130,329,000 dollars. Every producing
province shared in the rise: Ontario and
British Columbia were the largest con-
tributors.
* * * *
In other countries, the pioneer of
penny postage is regarded as a bene-
factor to humanity. If he rose from
the tomb and came to Australia these
days, Paterson would have him excluded
under the Immigration Restriction Act.
* * * *
“Ribbon”: The bestowal of an Im-
perial decoration on a Papuan native
constable reminds me that in Colonial
Office days British New Guinea, as it
then was, enjoyed a special decoration of
its own. In the heavy fighting which
MacGregor found forced on him by the
Western and Northern Papuans the then
raw force behaved so well that the old
doctor suggested a medal should be
struck to commemorate their services.
This was done, and half a dozen were
issued, one to Captain Butterworth, of
Queensland, then Police Commandant.
Later, Butterworth went to the Boer
War with the third Q.M.I. and sported
his medal. He was quickly pulled up,
and after a long fight was ordered to dis-
mount the bauble.
* * * *
“L. de F.”: The death of octogenarian
Mrs. Bott at Kerang (Vic.) the other
day recalls a district mystery. In her
youth Mrs. Bott, with her husband and
two children (a boy of eight and a
younger girl),' drove out to Kow Swamp.
The husband went to visit a neighbor-
ing farmhouse, the mother remained at
the buggy and the children went pick-
ing flowers. The little girl soon returned
alone and reported that her brother was
playing near a certain tree. Both parents
went at once to find him, but without
success. A search party of 200 people,
including police and black-trackers, took
up the hunt. It is fairly open country,
and the trackers easily found the foot-
prints of the boy leading to the tree,
but declared there were no tracks leading
away from it. That was 51 years ago,
and no trace of the boy was ever found.
* * * *
“Captain Pintle”: A lady passenger
waxed enthusiastic to me on the subject
of gyro compasses and gyro steering gear.
“Isn’t it wonderful to realise that we no
longer have to depend on human falli-
bility,” she gushed. “What trouble it
must save you to just adjust it when you
leave one port and have it steer the ship
straight to the next one! You don’t everi
have to keep on the bridge all night now,
I suppose?” I refrained from shaking
her faith in the gadget; but we of the sea
do not regard Iron Mike quite so trust-
fully. With a steady quartering sea he
is liable to bring the ship round in a
circle. Worse still, the watch officer
knows that Mike tells no fo’c’sle tales
of gravy-eye naps in a bridge wing or on
the chart table. Wise shipmasters use
a live helmsman from sunset to sunrise,
no matter what the sea-room is.
* * * *
“Larrakeah”: Australia has a unique
railway in the Darwin-Birdum section in
the Territory. In it's total length of
about 320 miles it has over 300 bridges,
most of them unnecessary in the dry
season, but essential during the. wet. The
carriages used when I knew them a few
years back were the oldest in the Com-
monwealth, having been built over 70
years ago and used for many years on
the 3ft. 6in. line between Adelaide and
Glenelg. The locomotives were in much
the same class. There was another engine
in Darwin, however; it cost £9OOO and
had one run only, its 85 tons proving too
great a strain on the multitudinous
bridges. I suppose it is still laid up there.
* * * *
“Eremite”: The news that the inhabi-
tants of a Coptic monastery in Egypt
have indulged in a “stay-in” strike will
amuse the many Australians who came
across these extraordinary communi-
ties. The “stay-in” part is particularly
puzzling, for once devotees enter one
of these “Deirs” they never emerge to
the outer world again. Many of the
Deirs are situated far out in the desert,
mostly on the Libyan side. Aus-
tralians who served with the Composite
Regiment against the Senussi’s forces
will recall the curious Deirs about Wadi
Natrun with their high, unpierced walls
and the only gate for admission high up
in one of them. Some of these have
been in existence for a thousand years
and more, and have defied the attempts
of the Arabs to reduce them. Each is
built round a good well, and legend makes
them the depository of priceless Coptic
manuscripts.


ESTABLISHED 1834.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10
RESERVE FUND 4,300,000 0
(Used whoily in the business)
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10
0
0
0
• Directors:
James Ashton (Chairman), Edward R. Knox, Owen E. Friend,
Sir Wm. Vicars, C.8.E., Orwell Phillips.
General Manager: C. Darvall.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout:
New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, South Australia,
and at Canberra, Federal Territory.
Agents throughout “the World.
Concentrated Cover
The mass of the circulation among the mass of
the population is the cover offered by
The Courier-Mail
The rich Queensland areas of the North Coast, the
South Coast and the Darling Downs, and the Northern
Rivers district of New South Wales all come within a radius
of 100 miles of Brisbane. Within this circle resides a popu-
lation of approximately 700,000, concentrated in some of
the richest farming and pastoral areas in Australia.
This is the mass market covered by The Courier-Mail,
rich in possibilities for the National Advertiser; and here
are the circulation figures for the various areas:—
Within a radius of 25 miles of Brisbane:
43,353
Within a radius of 50 miles of Brisbane:
48,905
Within a radius of 100 miles of Brisbane:
60,781
(Average net daily circulation for six months'
period ended September, 1936, 69,837.)
THE COURIER-MAIL, Queensland’s National
Daily, offers the most complete and effective cover
of this rich market.
Queensland Newspapers Pty., Ltd.,
BRISBANE.
Sydney Representative: R. JACKSON, Warwick Building, Hamilton Street.
Melbourne Representative: R. D. FISHER. Newspaper House, Collins Street.
London Representative: A. J. CHARD, 92 Fleet Street.
THE PEERLESS “GRIFFO”
No. 9 of a series of articles on the great Australian boxers.
Scene: The old Bulletin office in
Pitt-street, Sydney. Time: 45 years ago
or thereabouts. A stocky young man
enters. He is of the larrikin type, and
has had more beer than is good for him,
but his expression is anything but fero-
cious ; in fact, he is grinning broadly.
“Want t’ see Mr. Blair,” the visitor
says. Mr. Blair is brought. “Y’ don’t
remember me, Mr. Blair?” “Can’t say
that I do.” “I used t’ sell Bulleteens
’ere once.” “Yes?” “Yes, and y’ used
to chuck me out, Mr. Blair. I’m ‘Griffo,’
Mr. Blair. Chuck me out now!”
Mr. Blair, of course, has other fish to
fry, and “Griffo” departs chuckling. He
had come looking for fun, not fight.
“Lad” as he was, and idol of the larrikin
pushes of the period, a bully he was not.
Scapegrace and illiterate, he was good-
natured even in the ring, and his gener-
osity in money matters was his undoing.
Albert Griffiths, his name was, and
Sofala (N.S.W.) declares That he was
born there—on March 21, 1871 —though
the distinction has been claimed for
Melbourne. At various times he was
alleged to be a son of Larry Foley, a son
of Harry Rickards (then “sole lessee and
manager of the Tivoli” and an inveterate
ringsider), even a son of Tom Sayers,
but he had no such noted connections.
He was brought up on the Rocks, had
no schooling, became a newsboy and,
like all newsboys in the ’eighties, a
gambler. What he made by selling
“ ’Eralds,” “Hechos” and Bulletins, he
would cheerfully risk at two-up.
In combat with other newsboys “Griffo”
soon learned how to use his fists, but as a
youngster he did not excel at street- or
field-fighting. In after years it was said
that in the boy-scraps that raged in lanes
near the “Herald” and Bulletin offices
a youngster who was to become a cham-
pion skater was “Griffo’s” master. It
was not until he came under Larry
Foley’s notice that his wonderful
aptitude for boxing was discovered.
Foley it was who developed the skill that
made “Griffo” a peerless boxer, and
Americans, as well as Australians, whose
memories of boxers go back 50 years
agree that no cleverer pug. has ever been
seen.
Himself a master of the Jem Mace
style, Foley taught the youngster all he
knew, and with the exnerience gained in
scores of bouts “Griffo” improved on
the teaching. Boxing was one of the
great pursuits of the age—the proprietor
of a Sydney “club” has left it on record
that he witnessed 800 fights to a finish
within two years— : so there were lots of
featherweights and lightweights about,
and “Griffo” met them nearly all. Now
and then he knocked a fellow out. As a
rule, he was content to let opponents go
the prescribed distance, baffling all their
attempts to land on him with any trouble-
“GRIFFO,” in his prime.
In condition (he rarely was ) he weighed
8st. 9lb., but he was the master of all
the lightweights.
some force —making them look foolish
by ducking blows aimed at the head or
shifting his mid-region away from body-
punches. At times he would move in
suddenly, grasp the other fellow by the
head so as to place it in position for a
counter-offensive and job him delicately
on nose or eye. At other times he
would stand in one place and let the
other chap exhaust himself trying to
drive his fist through a section of “Griffo”
that was never there at the critical
moment. Head, feet, body or protective
glove would move like lightning when
required, and his fighting brain was
always ice-cool.
In this fashion, “Griffo” boxed a multi-
tude of aspiring youngsters, among them
Billy Holden, Doss Patterson, George
McKenzie, Tom Donnelley, Young
Sandy Ross, Mick O’Brien, Mick
McCarthy, Jim Dempsey, “Deerfoot,”
Chiddy Ryan (still on deck in Sydney),
Abe Willis and Martin Denny. Some
of them drew with him ; none beat him.
His toughest opponent in these early
years was “Pluto,” a mercurial little
African who had been taken up by a
Melbourne sporting man. Pluto was
fairly clever, and had so much confidence
in himself that he talked of challenging
Peter Jackson, who was at least five
stone heavier. He and “Griffo” fought
a couple of draws when the youth from
the Rocks was 17, and they had three
more no-decision bouts in the follow-
ing year. One went 23 rounds, the
second 13 rounds, the third 70 rounds.
The 70-rounde.r took place in Mel-
bourne, and the parties to it were prose-
cuted for a breach of the peace. On
appeal the case went to Judge Hamilton,
who ruled that no breach of the peace
had been committed. “It has been
shown,” his Honor dryly said, “that these
‘champion lightweights’ boxed for four
hours and a half, but it has not been
shown that they hurt one another, so
neither party was guilty of an act of*
assault.”
Long afterwards, Pluto became a
peaceful duck-farmer in Westralia, where
his two sons, the welterweights Cyril and
Bill Pluto, were born. They are not
bad fighters, but neither has the fire or
stamina of his father.
Another of “Griffo’s” opponents who
gave him more trouble than most of the
others was George Powell, who had
won the lightweight championship of
Queensland. Powell he beat on a foul
in the twenty-first round. Like Pluto,
Powell went to Westralia,
where he returned to his
trade, hairdressing. Until
a few years ago he was
a familiar figure in a
Perth suburb, a white-
moustached, white-haired
little man, very modest and very
courteous to customers —in every respect
a model citizen.
This his conqueror was not. “Griffo’s”
habits and choice of company began to
give the Ring a bad name. Before he
was out of his teens he had started drink-
ing to excess, and when he was only 20
The Bulletin issued this warning to
him: “If Griffo does not take in a reef
or two Billy Murphy will beat him in
the next fight. Electioneering in the in-
terests of an ex-publican of West Syd-
ney, and flying round in that of the girls,
is bad training for a hard go.” Actually,
the scamp was to prove against Murphy
(whonj he beat in 22 rounds) and many
others that he could defy all the rules
of training and still “get all over them.”
But though the Game might have been
able to stand one bibulous champion,
its reputation could not survive the taint
of push ethics and manners.
Like George Powell, Foley, Jackson,
5 Slavin, Goddard, Fitzsimmons, Billy
Smith, McCarthy, Tommy and Billy
Williams, George Dawson and Jim
Burge were all decent fellows, and some
of them were devoted family men ; and
in their time the pushes were held sternly
in check. But most of the good men
had gone abroad and other business was
claiming Foley ; and the Ring was be-
coming a push-dominated institution.
As for “Griffo,” except when actually
boxing, he was now a thoroughly demor-
alised champion. He was but 21 when
The Bulletin wrote: “ ‘Griffo’s’ friends,
if he has any real friends, should induce
him to emigrate, no matter where, so
long as he gets rid of the push that now
surrounds him.” “Griffo” was in his
glory, but the Ring was in its decline.
On July 1, 1890, there is a sarcastic
reference to “Master Griffiths, the
featherweight, better known as ‘Griffo.’ ”
“He played the game low down on those
professing to be his friends. ‘Griffo’ was
booked to leave for Yankeeland by the
Zealandia, and was duly escorted to that
steamer by a big posse of sports. Just
before the vessel cast off three cheers
were given for the youthful bruiser, who
was so overcome by emotion that, with
handkerchief to eye, he was seen to
leave the vessel’s rail. Another cheer
was given, and the party sauntered up
town, when almost the first acquaintance
they dropped across was Mr. ‘Griffo,
who had changed his mind at the last
moment and quietly dropped to the
wharf.”
A friend of “Griffo’s” must have told
him that Billy Murphy was on his way
to Sydney with a New York “Police
Gazette” belt, presented to him by
Richard K. Fox for beating Ike Weir for
the featherweight championship of the
world, and that “Griffo” could get a
fight with Murphy if he remained in
Sydney. He remained and got the fight.
As already related in this series of
articles, Murphy, finding that he coul
not put a glove on the lad from the
Rocks and that* his condition was giving
out, declared himself the loser ( I § ive
this fight to Mr. ‘Griffo’ ”) in the six
teenth round. Thereby he parted wit


J
TOfTHE yOUNG
BUSINESS MAN
It has been said that one of the first signs of
maturity in the young businessman is his
desire for a cheque account.
The Rural Bank gives the fullest assistance
and consideration to the young business-
man opening his first cheque
lodging his first interest-bearing Fixed
Deposit.
Any thought that the Rural Bank is con-
cerned only with substantial sums and has
no welcome for the customer of small
means is, of course, mistaken; the Rural
Bank, while adequately equipped for large
uu
business, extends its best services to
every customer.
T he Rural Bank, in its new Sydney
Head Office or any of its country
branches, offers equal banking facili-
ties to investors, businessmen, farmers
and home-builders its services are
for all members of the community.
Rwial Bank
OF nEUU SOUTH UJ RL E S
Head Office: MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY
Commissioners: C. R. McKERIHAN (President), H. ROGERS, P. KEARNS
the championship, but not with the belt.
That jewelled bauble he took to San
Francisco again, and it was alleged that
he found it a convenient thing to pop
when San Francisco boxing fell on evil
days and he decided to go back to
tailoring for a season.
For some reason or other there was an
impression in certain quarters that
‘Griffo” considered Murphy out of
his class and thought of withdrawing
from the match. “Me?” said Griffo,
when this was conveyed to him. “An’
there’s a ’undred an’ seventy-fi’ quid
’anging to it! I wouldn’t mind standin’
up to a man with an American axe for
a ’undred an’ seventy-fi’ quid, let alone
Billy Murphy and his padded dooks.”
Already he was beginning to find train-
ing a bore. While “preparing” for
Murphy, he had “a finger badly bitten
by a greasy pig at a Botany picnic.”
Having disposed of Murphy, “Griffo”
was matched against The Unknown, who
“turned out to be an old hand —Moran,
who some time ago gave a taste of his
quality to clever Jack Hall. The objec-
tions of his family have since prevented
him from coming prominently before the
public.” It was pointed out that “the
‘Griffo’ Jackson-Jim Hall school is almost
invincible at out-fighting and Moran gets
;lose-in.” Opposed to “Griffo” “he
proved himself a remarkably clever
boxer, but ‘Griffo’ is a phenomenon. He
was never where Moran thought he
should be, and when the little wonder
:ommenced to play a tattoo upon poor
Moran, popping in one, two, three with-
out a return, he reminded the writer
nuch of George Seale. Like the latter,
le is not a smasher of the Fogarty order,
out is a dreadful punisher, worrying his
nan down. In the thirteenth round
Moran received his quietus.
“ ‘Griffo’ is a remarkably big little
nan, with a chest that looks abnormal
in girth, and when he is done with the
’eatherweights he will give the light-
weights all their weight, should he have
i shy at them.” A prediction that was
to be fully borne out. “ ‘Griffo’ was at
Warwick Farm races the day after the
fight, and did not show a mark.”
Moran was not the only pug who was
that year to learn in suffering that
“Griffo” could knock a man out if he
:hose to do so. One “McLeod, of New-
town, undertook at Foley’s to knock out
‘Griffo’ in 15 rounds. He was some two
stone heavier, but the featherweight
champion put McLeod in his little cot in
two rounds, and Newtown went into
mourning.”
Murphy fretted over the loss of the
featherweight championship, and orally
and in written communications to Cali-
fornian newspapers made several ex-
planations, none of them convincing. He
was taken to task: “Mr. Billy Murphy,
who first made his name in Sydney and
always got the best of treatment here,
can’t forget the licking he got from
Griffo.’ He blames everybody and
everything but the flashness that pre-
vented him from training. Mr. ‘Griffo’
should profit by the example of his de-
feated rival, but he probably won’t.”
He didn’t.
Early in 1891 Ike Weir, from whom
Murphy had won the championship,
visited Sydney and boxed four rounds
with Abe Willis at the Australian Ath-
letic Club. Ike was a vision “in green
trunks and red stockings (the green
above the red) and looked like a song-
and-dance merchant. He stripped splen-
didly,” and impressed a Bulletin man
as “one of the smartest men with head,
hand and foot ever seen in these parts,”
but his staying powers were questioned.
“Mr. Weir never attempted to box ; he
leaped about like a kangaroo, ducked
under Willis’s arms, hit round his back,
contorted his face and wriggled his body
till everyone roared except Abe, who
got very wild. The latter worthy, dis-
gusted and annoyed, threw a handspring,
turned a somersault and finished the
farce. ‘Griffo,’ having got leave from
the other club to postpone his match
with Powell, if necessary, mounted the
platform and said he wouldn’t let Weir
go away saying no one in Australia
would fight him, and Foley offered to
back ‘Griffo’ for any sum from £5OO to
£lO,OOO. Then Weir said engagements
prevented, and promised ‘Griffo’ a big
purse and a good time in ’Frisco if he
would fight there. ‘Griffo’ then made
six more speeches and nothing was
done.”
One of “Griffo’s” challengers was a
colored lad named Jerry Marshall. In
1892 he defeated Marshall in 12 rounds,
but the verdict was disputed, and they
were matched again. This time it was
asserted that “Griffo” was training
seriously for the black, but The Bulle-
tin of Feb. 25, 1893, expressed its
doubts. “In any case,” it said, “a few
weeks’ training cannot have cleaned out
the effects of months and years of
lemonade. As Marshall will step into the
ring trained to the hour, it looks much
as if Master ‘Griffo’ will taste the. bitter-
ness of defeat for the first time in his
career, should the police allow the fight
to be finished. However, ‘Griffo' cannot
complain. Lemonade has knocked out
many a better man.”
But it was not “Griffo” that was to
be knocked out; it was the prosperity of
Australian boxing. And more than a
decade was to elapse before it was re-
vived. The Bulletin of March 11,
1893, described the closing scenes:
“The deaths of the boxers Stewart and
Lewis just after leaving the prize ring,
combined with the brutal riot at the
‘Griffo’-Marshall fight, should just about
put a stop to glove-fighting in Sydney.
“At the ‘Griffo’-Marshall affair the
talent, as usual, rushed the doors and got
in free. Not satisfied with this, they made
a charge for the ten-shilling seats and
established themselves there —which also
is usual enough. But when they came to
pulling out people who had paid their
ten shillings and taking their seats from
them, it was a little too much. How-
ever, no one could make a fuss, as with
the Rocks push, the Liver push, the
Silent push (these latter biff you and
don’t' say anything) and the Black-Reds
about, discretion was certainly the better
part of valor.
“It is a pity that the savage gang of
roughs who assembled at Darlinghurst
rink and wrecked the furniture can’t be
lagged to New Caledonia. Another way
would be for the authorities to promote
a championship fight in the ring and send
along as an order-guard all the police
on the black list —the fellows who get
drunk and smash people’s heads with
batons and jump on prisoners in the
cells. Then a dynamite mine should be
sprung under the building, and all the
scum of Sydney sent to glory.
“The prize ring is now an utterly dis-
credited institution in Australia. It is
the sport of pimps and thieves, and is as
low as professional sculling or foot-
racing.
“Marshall fought for a fall the moment
he put his hands up. The building rang
with filthy epithets hurled at the black
by the assembled blackguardom, and the
writer really believes that had Marshall
been getting the better of ‘Griffo’ the
crowd would have kicked him to death.
Marshall fought like a cowed man, and
when the referee gave the fight to ‘Griffo’
on a foul no man was better pleased
than the darkie, who lost no time in get-
ting to a place of safety. Men who have
witnessed every encounter in Sydney for
a quarter of a century say they have seen
their last glove-fight, and if the authori-
ties allow any more contests the pushes
will have the show to themselves.”
In May, 1893, “to the general relief,
Ted Alexander, a young Sydney Jew,
domiciled in San Francisco, came from
that city with the money for ‘Griffo’s’
passage and a list of prospective fights.
And, to the general surprise, the ‘fedder’
signed up and accompanied Alexander
to San Francisco.”
Said The Bulletin of May 27,
“ ‘Griffo’ may be a different man away
from the noxious gang by whom he has
been shepherded in Sydney, but it is only
fair to let the Yankees know that he is
scarcely a fair representation of the Aus-
tralian boxer outside the ring. ‘Griffo’
on the burst —his chronic state —is a
miniature edition of John L. Sullivan,
without any of the redeeming qualities
said to be possessed by the Yankee in
his sober moments.”
Peter Jackson.
“Solar Plexus”: In the early ’eighties
Jackson was a laborer in the Darling
Harbor railway goods shed. He at-
tracted the attention of Kelly, an old-time
knuckle-fighter, who advised the young
man to go in for boxing. Peter was will-
ing, and was taken along to Mick Doo-
ley’s rooms. Mick, thinking the long
streak of ebony had come to be tried
out, did his work so well that Peter was
badly beaten up ; but, though knocked
down, he always came back for more
until the final gong (it was a four-round
go).
Hearing of his plucky showing, Foley
approached Jackson and got him a job in
George Hill’s metal quarries in the Illa-
warra district, teaching his “find” in
between.
Jackson’s only encounter with Goddard
was that in which they fought an eight-
round draw in Melbourne on October 21,
1890. His fights prior to meeting Far-
nan were with Jack Hayes —a six-round
draw and a win for Jackson in seven
rounds —and Britton, whom he knocked
out in the twentieth round. Hayes was
“The Illawarra Navvy.”
In the first Farnan-Jackson fight Far-
nan was knocked down several times in
the first round. For no apparent reason
Jackson staggered from his corner to
resume hostilities; Farnan then had mat-
ters all his own way, and knocked out
his man in the third round. Jackson,
on his return to Sydney and on several
subsequent occasions—even the day before
his death —stated that he had been doped.
I believe it, not only because of the
strong circumstantial evidence but be-
cause Peter Jackson said so. Their re-
turn contest was decided in a hall in
Engine-street, Sydney. For five rounds
Jackson’s superiority was marked, but
in the sixth session a right to the body
dropped him. The ring was rushed, and
the referee —the late Jack Johnson —
called it a draw.
Jackson did not “go back to Foley.”
Larry and his former pupil were then
at loggerheads, because Peter had at his
United States Hotel (corner of Druitt
and Sussex streets) opened a boxing
school in opposition to Laurence.
The exhibition contest between Jack-
son and “Professor” Miller took place
at Chiarini’s Circus, Belmore Park; the
proprietor, assisted by Foley, promoted
a tourney to decide the champions at
the light-, middle- and heavyweight
limits. In the last-mentioned division
Miller had a “walkover,” and he decided
to appear in an exhibition spar with
Jackson. From the start he made it
plain that he was out to stop Peter; but
he reckoned not with the latter’s speed,
science and hitting power. The “Pro-
fessor” hadn’t a hope, and was beaten
at every turn. The referee was about
to declare Jackson the winner, but Foley
pushed him aside.
In The Bulletin’s account of the
Jackson-Dooley fight Dooley is de-
scribed as “a fine young six-footer, little
more than out of his teens.” He was
little more than five months younger than
Peter, who was born on July 3, 1861 ;
Dooley on Christmas Day of that year. As
for Lees v. Jackson, from the first’tap of
the gong until Jackson stopped his man
in the thirtieth, Lees did nothing but run
round the ring, meanwhile calling his
opponent all the vile names he could
think of. It was the clearest case of quit
I have seen in my more than 50 years’
connection with boxing.
The Sam Fitzpatrick who was Jack-
son’s trainer was one of the few men
in the boxing world who figured in a
double knock-out. It was with Abe
Aitkin, at the White Horse Hall. Rights
connected simultaneously, and each man
in falling finished with feet to feet, re-
maining in the position until counted out.


Che mercury
Tasmania’s First Daily Newspaper
(Established 1854).
“The Mercury” carries regularly a far
greater total volume of advertising than
any other newspaper published in Tas-
mania. It is thus, judged by the use made
of its columns, the most popular as well
as the most powerful of the newspapers of
Tasmania. Profit by' the experience of the
leading national advertisers, and place “The
Mercury” first when advertising in Tas-
mania is under consideration.
“The Mercury” is the only Tasmanian
newspaper which gives A.B.C. certificates
of circulation. These certificates show
that during the 18 months ended Sept. 30,
1936, “The Mercury’s” circulation in-
creased by 1882, and that it had reached
20,471 daily.'
Full particulars from
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable Address: MERCURY, HOBART.
Sydney Office: Lisgar House, Carrington St.
F. L. WILSON & CO., Representatives.
Melbourne Office: Newspaper House. Collins St.
F. RIEUSSET, Representative.
Plomp!
right into the
middle of South
Australia's week-
end !
65,742
COPIES OF
“THE MAIL”
Adelaide’s Leading Week-
End Newspaper!
REPRESENTATION: —Adelaide —News
Ltd., North terrace. 'Melbourne —Mr.
A. G. Pike, Ist Floor. Newspaper House,
Collins street. Sydney—P. A. Messen-
ger, Warwick-Building. Hamilton street.
London— F. A. Smyth. 34-40 Ludgate
Hill. E.C.4.
SHARE IN
WESTERN AUSTRALIA’S
PROSPERITY BY
ADVERTISING IN THE
PERTH’S LEADING
WEEKLY, THE PAPER
WITH THE
HOME CIRCULATION.
Sydney Representative:
HAL J. JOHNSTONE.
Wingello House, Angel Place.
Melbourne Representative:
MERVYN S. ALLAN,
368 Collins Street.
Effective Coverage
of Wellington, the capital
city of New Zealand, is
certain through the
columns of
“The Evening Post”
which enters 19 out of
every 20 homes in the
city and urban areas,
FIRST IN SALES, IN-
FLUENCE, PRESTIGE
AND IN THE QUAN-
TITY OF LOCAL AND
NATIONAL ADVERTIS-
ING CARRIED.
The Evening Post
(Blundell Bros., Ltd., Props.)
For particulars and rates apply to
any accredited advertising agency.
eh, who has no need of women. I saw her to-night
at the dance. She was sufficiently charming—small
hands and feet, not like so many of these amazons
here. But why should she wear her hair like a boy?”
“Why not, if she wants to? That was old Peter’s
daughter. I’ve known her ever since I came here.”
“And you kept her hidden away, eh?”
“Nothing of the kind. It’s you who’ve kept hid-
den, you old hermit. Mousing around the backwater
here, shying away from all decent people. Anyway,
she’s not my private property.”
He slipped down into the darkness of the cockpit,
anxious to avoid further questioning. There was
something in Leo’s eyes, when he talked about women,
that made him uncomfortable. Anyhow, he would
meet Freda herself if she was coming down to the
boat in the morning.
BUT did he want her to come? Hadn’t there been
justification (he was lying undressed on his bunk)
in the instinct that up till now had made him keep
her away from the boat, fending off her offers to
help them with cooking and cleaning? He had plenty
of obvious excuses. Charlie wouldn’t like it, for one
thing: Charlie was shy with women, even with the
colored girls he had grown up among, and would
resent the idea of anyone poking around his galley.
That was mere evasion, though: he wasn’t really
considering Charlie. At the back of his mind other
reasons had lurked, vague and undefined, only now
beginning to take clear shape. Freda’s voice came
back to him curiously near and searching: “You don’t
ever bring that mate of yours to the house, Sandy.
Why not?”
Well, why hadn't he? The Jensen house was an
open one, and the old people liked to show their
hospitality: more than once they had asked about
Besanck. It would be the natural thing to bring him
there for a meal or a game of cards. And Leo, in
some moods, could lay himself out to be a gay and
entertaining companion.
The truth was (why not admit it?) it was the
thought of Freda that made him hang back. He
didn’t trust Leo’s attitude to women. There was a
ruthless directness about it that made him blink,
brought a gooseflesh feeling to his skin, like the feel
of a razor’s edge, like the vision of a world of ice.
He could hear his little laugh, hard and brittle as
glass, when he talked of the fewness of his wants:
“A book, a bottle of wine, a girl from Charlotte-street.
What my mind and my body need at the moment.”
That implicit contempt for women, that cold-
blooded refusal to consider them as human beings.
It was one of the things that made him feel alien
to Leo: it went with the glassy look that sometimes
came to his mate’s eyes. None of the loose ribaldry
of the cane-barracks had ever affected him like that.
You had become used to it as a boy, you knew how
much it meant. Fellows like Carroll and the Parrot
lived in their senses and took things as they came,
but most of Leo’s life was in his mind. When he
was brutal it was more than an impulsive movement
of the body.
Uneasiness spread through him, keeping sleep
from his eyes. He felt the shadow of foreboding,
something stretching over him like a dark wing.
Freda’s face secretive in the half-light, her fingers
playing with the pebbles, her quick glance meeting
his, sliding away. Why the devil did she want to
know Leo? She had plenty of friends of her own.
AT breakfast next morning he said abruptly “Time
to get moving again. We’ll fill up with ice and
stores and try a long trip to the Outer Reef. Stay
out a week or so and see if we can make a haul.
Besanck, pouring out coffee for himself at the
galley, looked around sharply. “What is this? Mov-
ing again, you say? I thought we decided to lie up
for awhile.”
“Well, haven’t we been doing it? Only one trip
in the last month. We can’t live on nothing. And
there’ll be a couple more slack months ahead.”
“For everyone. Not for us alone.”
“We can’t take things as easy as the other fellows
can. Some of them have found jobs ashore, and
besides they’ve been making good money all winter.
We’re new to the game: we can’t afford to sit back.
The Kestrel has to earn her oats.”
There was a snap in his voice, an air of authority
in the way he pushed his plate away from him and
rose from the table. Besanck studied him for awhile
with his peculiar smile, one eyebrow raised higher
than the other.
“Oh, well, if the Kestrel has a duty to herself
we must show her consideration, eh? Not put our
own wishes in the way.”
He was ruffled, though he took pains not to
betray it too obviously. It was part of his pride to
remain free, to do his own work and leave the move-
ments of the boat to the others. That was what he
had insisted on in the beginning.
Yet sometimes, as now, this meant a definite over-
riding of his will. It was one thing to surrender
power lightly: it was quite another to be forced to
carry out orders like a paid hand. Washing-up the
dishes in the galley he hummed the aria of a light
opera, but there was a pinkish flush about his
temples, a queer glitter in his eye.
Neil knew what he was thinking, and felt angry
with himself as he went to see what oil there was
aboard. His decision had been made before his
eyes closed in sleep: it seemed absurd in the sober
light of morning. Freda and Leo! What could they
be to each other? All this bobbery to prevent them
from meeting!
“You hear, Charlie?” Besanck called from the
galley. “We sail at once to meet the enemy. No
more armistice. No more taking shelter in the back-
water. It is the wish of the Kestrel herself.”
Mockery! There was no escaping the echo of
that light voice floating up from below, scattering
malicious laughter through the bright morning. It
was Sunday. Little launches filled with young people
had begun to splutter out from the wharves at the
front, making for the head of the estuary, where fresh-
water creeks came cascading down through green
jungle. Snatches of song, twang of plucked strings,
chitter of outboard motors sounded across the water.
On shore colored youngsters in freshly-laundered
whites played circumspectly around their hovels,
awaiting the cricket match that was to start at eleven
against a team from down south. Even Charlie was
reluctant to miss it, though he said nothing as he
hauled the stores aboard from the flattie.
“Let her go,” twitted Besanck. “She is reluctant
to be away. Importunate woman! We must not
refuse her anything she wants.”
""P HE journey out was made in a mood of exaspera-
tion that affected all three of them. There was
no wind, a haze of heat hovered over the still water,
they had trouble with the engine. After struggling
for hours in the stifling cockpit Besanck emerged to
lie breathless under the awning, his singlet steeped in
sweat, a ring of grime around his eyes that gave them
a fixed stare. All the bubble of the morning had
died down in him. His face was pale, his nostrils
wrinkled fastidiously as though to shut out the smell
of bilge and benzine, the foetid breath of life itself.
“Hell, what a world!” his look said.
They crawled with difficulty through the narrow
channel at Tern Island and lay anchored a stone’s
throw from the shore, motionless on the pond-still
water. Half-heartedly Neil pulled out the casting-net
and looked around for bait. He must make a pretence
of being concerned about fish: why shouldn’t he be
concerned about them? Damn it all, they weren’t
in the game for the fun of it!
In the late dusk, stripped for £ swim, he sat on
the bowsprit, his mind troubled as he looked at the
dull water, the faint flickers of lightning playing around
the slaty horizon. Mutters of impending storm
quickened the lifeless air: between the clouds were
tints of sickly green. But it was the silence that had
come upon Leo that really worried him. Except for
a few brief exchanges about the engine, they had
hardly spoken since setting out that morning, and in
Leo’s eyes he had been aware of a lurking irony, a
gleam of surprised discovery: “This is how it is to be,
then? You assert your power over me more and more
by your control of the boat.”
It was the first time there had been any real
conflict between them since taking over the boat, and
it was indirect, without meaning, based on misunder-
standing.
Or was it? Didn’t the difference go deep? There
was a way of looking at women, trying to rouse their
curiosity, stimulating whatever was wanton in them,
yet' remaining cold-blooded as a shark. That little
laugh with the tinkle of ice in it!
You imagined you were living in complete com-
radeship with another fellow till something cropped
up that touched a nerve: then you found you were
strangers, watching each other with cold eyes, on the
alert for treachery. And there developed a struggle,
each trying to outwit the other with secret moves.
The air became thick with suspicion, with mistrust.
What had happened to the engine? It had never
given trouble before: it had sounded sweet as a bird’s
throat when they were coming back a couple of after-
noons before from the head of the estuary.
He stood up and dived into the darkening water.
A dull shock, a spraying of blood across his brain,
a burst of brilliant lights. Afterwards he remembered
nothing but the clop of rowlocks echoing out in the
distance, dying away. Cataracts roared against the
barriers of his ear-drums.
C ROM a state of semi-consciousness he awoke with
1 a taste of whisky in his mouth to find himself
lying on deck, a blanket over his bare body, two
figures squatting beside him in the yellow lantern-
glow. Their faces were solemn, their bodies humped
in attitudes of timeless waiting. He lay watching
them, unwilling to stir, a faint Bubble of humor float-
ing up from the muddy bottom of his mind. There
was something so desperately comic about Leo. His
hair was plastered down over his forehead, his wet
clothes clung to his body, he looked like a bedraggled
fowl in the dim light.
Suddenly he smiled, poured out another nip of
whisky. “How is it, Neil? You feel better?”
Neil’s voice came with difficulty from far down
in his throat. “I’m all right, Leo.”
“No pain in the head?”
“Nothing to worry about. Bit of an ache—that’s
a 11... What happened?”
“That is what we both ask. When last I look'
you are sitting on the bowsprit. I hear a splash and
turn round, but you don’t come up again. Hell!
something's wrong. Charlie! You there, Charlie?
But no, Charlie has gone off in the dinghy. Nothing
for me but Coral rock, was it?”
“Must have been. Something harder than wood.”
He grinned uncertainly, stretched out an impulsive
hand. A sense of well-being seeped through him, in
spite of the stiffness of his neck, the dull ache in his
head. Leo hadn’t hesitated to go in after him, and
Leo was a poor swimmer. Scared of sharks, too!
There was something, after all, in the comrade-
ship of men. Affection for his mate welled up in him,
made his eyes fill with mist. If only they could be
always at sea, without the complications of port, the
interference of women!...
(To be continued next week.)


,
X
m;
y
'S4..
H
1
r
LDCKY GIRL
She has vivid, snapping eyes. Her hair glistens with life.
Her skin is smooth and firm. Her clear complexion is not the
kind that comes from cosmetics. Her figure is supple and robust.
She has a pleasant, vital personality. Men admire her—and so
do women.
A lucky girl, you say. Not exactly. Just a normal healthy
girl. The kind of person nature meant every girl of her age to
be. And yet, in a way, she is lucky.
Her Mother Knew What To Do
Most girls (and young men, too) pass through a time when
their faces are pimply and their complexions poor. They lack
energy and interest. The danger is that their complexions may
be permanently marked or that they may contract serious
constitutional ailments.
The best thing to do at such a time, as this girl’s mother
knew, is to keep the digestion and elimination functioning as
perfectly as possible. And for that purpose Dr. Morse’s Indian
Root Pills are excellent. They are laxative—gently and surely
eliminating waste matter from the bowels. They stimulate the
digestive organs, increasing the flow of digestive secretions.
They help to “tone up” and cleanse the digestive tract.
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills are purely vegetable, and
contain no minerals or habit-forming drugs. They make you
feel brighter.
Dr.MORSES
R
ND
i
PILLS
A\AD£ IN AUSTRALIA
For Simple Constipation and Attendant Ills
POST THIS SUP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK’S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
il
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment
NAME
ADDRESS
{Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
Mirpil
Is an Ideal
SKIN BALM
Windburn and Sunburn. —When
the skin is burned by either wind or
sun, or both, one or more liberal
applications of Mirpil will bring
relief. If the skin is too tender to
bear being touched by hand, lay a
clean linen or cotton cloth, saturated
with the Balm, over the affected part.
Mosquitoes and Sandflies.—Mirpil
smeared on face and hands at night
will keep mosquitoes away. It also
soothes mosquito and sandfly bites.
Sore and Tired Feet.—Apply
Mirpil to the soles of your feet when
sore and tired. The relief is won-
derful.
After Shaving. —A small quantity
of Mirpil rubbed on the face after
shaving will be found soothing.
Before Applying Powder, always
rub Mirpil into the skin until quite
dry. The cleansing and cooling
actions of this preparation will
enhance the comfort which powder
provides.
Obtainable all chemists and leading
stores or will be sent post paid upon
receipt of postal note or stamps by The
W. H. Comstock Co., Ltd., 23 Lang Street,
Sydney, N.S.W., and 6 Farish Street, Wel-
lington, New Zealand.
Price, 2/6 per bottle, post paid.
WORMS
Does Your Child
Show Any of
These Symptoms?
Picking at the nose.
Grinding of the teeth, tossing and
crying out at night as though in
fright.
Extreme nervousness, muscular
twitching, irritability, sleeplessness,
and general discomfort.
Poor appetite, loss ol weight, pale
or sallow skin, fatigue and lack of
ambition.
If so, the trouble may be caused
by worms, of which these are general
symptoms.
As a remedy for Stomach and
Thread Worms Comstock’s “Dead
Shot” Worm Pellets will be found
an excellent medicine compounded
on a scientific principle.
Obtainable all chemists and leading
stores or direct from The W. H. Comstock
Co., Ltd., 23 Lang Street, Sydney, N.S.W.,
or 6 Farish Street, Wellington, N.Z.
Price 2/- per box (six boxes 1 1/6), post
free.
X
A*' 1
V A ._\e
XT's*
*>-3'
3?
w^trr.Cr*
el’
J* •• •• s e<
‘* p *i' s - ••••' ..."■ » <* **%&*


Australian farmers
ALL-AUSTRALIAN PRODUCTS
s 4
11
W*
41
-BRAND.
ki
WARATAH” FENCING WIRE
B ®
Black or Galvanised
“WARATAH” STAR STEEL
FENCE POSTS will not burn
“WARATAH” Hinged Joint Fence
for Sheep, Cattle, Pigs, etc .
“WARATAH” WIRE-NETTING ...
100 per cent. Australian, from the iron ore to the fence. Waratah
wire-netting protects sheep, pigs, poultry and pastures from the ravage
of rabbits, wild dogs, and other vermin. Rylands stand behind all
War at ah products. Every roll of netting and coil of wire bears their
identification disc. Preserve this—it is your protection. Rylands have
a suitable, product for every fencing purpose, and, if youare in doubt
as to the right type of materials for specific uses, they invite you to
avail yourself of their technical service. Keep Australian workmen,
employed. An assured home consumption is your best market. Aus-
tralians consume 60 per cent, of the total primary production of the
Commonwealth. Four Australian workmen and their families lose
their livelihood for a week every time a mile of imported netting is
used. Specify Rylands Waratah wire-netting, and see that you get it.
SOLD BY ALL LEADING DISTRIBUTORS AND STOREKEEPERS.
Made at Newcastle in Australia
FROM
B.H.P. STEEL
The World’s Best
MADE BY
RYLANDS BROS. (AUST.), LTD.,
NEWCASTLE, N.S.W.
And at 422 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
Write for our Farmers *
Handbook
t : i
RYLANDS
STAND
BEHIND
THEIR
PRODUCTS
