

* An 81 -year-old battered
1 i;
veteran!
This ERG battery
returned by a satisfied ERG Dealer at Cullen Bullen is
definite proof of the quality of ERG products. Eight and a
half years of exhaustive country conditions—freezing starts on
winter mornings—singeing heat of summer—yet year after
year this ERQ has re-
mained trouble free!
Quality will always win
through, and that is why the
ERG Technical Depart-
ment never lets up on ' its
standard of materials . . .
and now . . . the latest
ERG BATTERY still
“BEST BY TEST”!
Ĵ
This is further PROOF
of the QUALITY that secured for
ERG BATTERIES
the EXCLUSIVE CONTRACTS to all
N.S.W. GOVERNMENT DEPTS
and
SYDNEY COUNTY COUNCIL
ELECTRICITY DEPT.
and thousands of other satisfied customers
Fleet owners . . . Truck men . . . Taxi drivers and thousands of motorists throughout the
Commonwealth endorse ERG popularity . . . you, too, can buy an ERG BATTERY from your LOCAL
GARAGE, or write to Erg Batteries Pty., Ltd., 156 Goulburn Street, Sydney.
The Bulletin
Vol. 58.—N0. 3005.
Wednesday, September 15, 1937.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


S. H. PRIOR MEMORIAL PRIZE.
In view of the fact that no award was made
in the Third Competition, the prize for the best
novel submitted to “The Bulletin” on or before
June 6, 1938, will be £2OO.
DYMOCK’S NEW LIBRARY
CATALOGUE FOR 1937
is now ready and will be forwarded post free
with terms and particulars on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
“The Block,”
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
Visit
THE AUSTRALIAN ART
EXHIBITION
The Macleod Gallery,
Bulletin Buildings, 252 George Street
(Near liridge Street),
i
Latest Pictures by leading Aus-
tralian Artists. Gallery now
reopened after renovations and
rearrangement.
ADMISSION FREE.
Tel., 87971.
S. H. Prior Memorial Prize
Fourth Competition Closes June 6, 1938.
Full particulars of this annual literary award will be published
here from time to time, or may be had on application to The
Bulletin, 252 George-street, Sydney.
For this current competition only novels are eligible, and the
Prize will be awarded to that which is considered the most
outstanding contribution to Australian literature.
The trustees will publish the successful work in book form,
and in serial form any they may deem worthy. If published as a
serial the winner will be paid for at serial rates in addition to the
prize-money. Any others used as serials will also be paid for at
serial rates.
Any bona fide Australian resident or any person born in
Australia, New Zealand or British South Pacific islands will be
eligible to enter for the competition works which must be the
original work of the entrants, and previously unpublished, either
wholly or in part, in book or serial form. Manuscripts must be
submitted under a nom de plume, and the true name and address
of the author must accompany each entry in a sealed envelope,
which will not be opened until the judges have made their decision.
The trustees reserve the right to withhold the Prize if no work
submitted is, in the opinion of the judges, worthy of an award
if this should occur in any year, the amount of the Prize will be
added to the following year’s Prize.
The Red Page
THE "BULLETIN"-CINESOUND
COMPETITION.
As announced in “The Bulletin” last week, the
current short story competition will serve a dual
purpose. It not only offers generous awards for the
best work of Australian fiction writers for publication
in “The Bulletin,” but is also designed, to discover
stories that can be adapted for production by Cine-
sound as Australian films for world-wide circulation.
This competition provides a lucrative avenue for the
Australian writer with ideas.
In addition to “The Bulletin” prizes of £3O, £l5
and £5, plus “Bulletin” rates for all stories published,
Cinesound Productions, Ltd., offers a special prize of
£lOO for the best story for filming, and will buy any
others in the competition suitable for production. The
successful writer has a chance of winning the money
provided for both sections of the competition.
The requirements of The Bulletin are well
understood by writers. The requirements of Cine-
sound are for Australian stories giving an original
and distinctive angle on moving-picture production.
For example, in “Orphan of the Wilderness,” our
unique fauna was shown with all the quaintness
and charm in natural bush settings.
“Lovers and Luggers” breaks entirely new ground
in an action romance of the pearling grounds.
“Tall Timbers” is woven around our timber
industry, showing the strength and beauty of our
forests in a story of strong action and exciting high-
lights.
The backgrounds in all these films are novel and
peculiarly our own. This fact has proved a stimulant
to the sale of our films overseas, and is of definite
assistance to the Australian moving-picture industry.
There is an abundance of story material in the
following themes, suggested by Mr. Ken Hall:
(a) Gold. There is a romance on every goldfield.
(b) .Airmail (London-Australia).
(c) The mounted trooper. This could cover drama
in the wild and fascinating country of Arnhem Land
or the Kimberleys.
id) A castaway story (“Admirable Crichton” style).
(e) Action stories.
(f) Surf stories.
(g) Heart interest (domestic comedy and drama, with
a dash of action).
These suggestions alone cover a wide canvas, but are
merely submitted as a guide and in no way to limit
writers.
Every story submitted in this competition will be
considered as having been entered for production as
a screen play and for publication in The Bulletin.
Those selected for consideration as film stories will
be judged by Ken G. Hall, Cinesound director ; Frank
Harvey, scenarist, and the editor of The Bulletin.
Closing date for the competition is January 31,
1938. But it is not intended to wait till then before
publishing entries; any considered to have a chance
will be paid for and published week by week as they
come to hand. At the close of the competition ALL
the entries will be considered by the judges.
Each entry must be the competitor’s hitherto
unpublished original work, and must be accompanied
by a declaration to that effect. '
Entries must not exceed 6500 words. The special
prize of £5 for the best brief story will go to the
best story of 1500 words or less. It will have an
equal chance of taking any of the other prizes.
. Pen-names may be used, but the full names and
addresses of the winners will be published when the
results are announced.
Each competitor may submit as many entries as
he or she desires, and there is no fee.
No member of The Bulletin staff may compete.
Entries to be addressed:
“Short Story Competition,”
C/o “THE BULLETIN,”
Box 252188, G.P.0., Sydney.
Australian One-act Plays.
Best Australian One-act Plays (Angus and Robert-
son ; 6s.), edited by William Moore and T. Inglis
Moore, is the first collection of Australian one-acters
to be published through regular channels. The result
justifies the enterprise. The contents —to reach for
a convenient yardstick—compare favorably with over-
seas collections, especially if allowance is made, and it
should be made, for the editors including, no doubt
with a view to making as wide a survey as possible, a
small number of plays that are interesting and signi-
ficant though not wholly successful. The editors
appear to have set themselves to collect as many suc-
cessful plays as possible regardless of genre. The
result is a volume with something to suit all tastes.
The small proportion, whether comedy or drama, that
combines depth of feeling for life with sound dramatic
craftsmanship is noticeable, though hardly more so
than among other collections, and the lack is oftset
in a large measure by the freshness that is a quality
of most of the work. Of the total of 21, a few are
outstanding, and most are technically competent. Two
interesting groups are the radio dramas, in which the
writers have experimented in a comparatively new
medium, with possibilities and limitations widely
different from those of the stage, and those plays in
which discussion of social problems is attempted.
Pre-eminent among the last-named is Leslie
Clarke Rees’s “Sub-editor’s Room,” which points the
difference between the cases of two persons who want
news stories “killed” for private reasons. One is
obscure, the other a person of influence. The play
is an honest, well-informed discussion of newspaper
ethics, expositional in character but with adequate
dramatic interest and a leavening of humor; a
rounded, finished and convincing piece of work. “Gib
It Tshillin’,” by Montague Grover, is disappointing.
A squatter is badly squeezed between the shearers’
union and the bank that holds a mortgage over his
property. The situation promises some hard-hitting
realism along whatever line the dramatist’s convic-
tions carry him, but nothing comes of it. An indi-
vidual shearer is made the scapegoat, and the play
dissolves, rather than ends, in jocular exchanges.
Social unrest consequent upon hard times is drama-
tised by Lloyd Ross in “The Rustling of Voices,” set
in Sydney Domain and dated 1893. The feeling of
the crowd is well conveyed in the chanting and
responses of Leader and Chorus and in Occasional
Voices rising above dialogue between persons. Effec-
tive use is made of a tramp and of William Lane
speaking before his departure for South America. The
play fails in the lovers, who are stilted in their relation-
ship to each other and too obviously author’s mouth-
pieces. “Anzac Reunion,” by Edgar Holt, in which a
returned soldier is visited on Anzac night by the muti-
lated ghosts of his old comrades, is a sound piece of
dramatic construction and an effective emotional pro-
test against the horrors of slaughter. Like most anti-
war plays it overlooks the fact that it is the so-called
peace that needs exhibiting on the pen-point —but
that, of course, would call for super-Shavian wit.
The radio writers have made good use of the
opportunities offered by their medium for free move-
ment in space and time. Edmund Barclay’s “Murder
in the Silo” is more than ordinarily good. It is a
mystery-thriller, making the usual bald bid for the
listener’s curiosity and. subsequent undisguised attack
on his feelings, but it also gives what appears to be
an authentic glimpse of certain Australian types and
an aspect of Australian rural life hitherto unportrayed.
Quaint is the word for “Fantasia,” by John Wheeler,
describing, with appropriate sound effects, a night
attack by snails in a garden and the rescue of the
plants by the ever-watchful gardener. The dramatist
artistically conveys the feeling of the night-enshrouded
plot and the snail’s-eye and plant’s-eye view of all
that transpires; though the plants’ final chorus of
thanksgiving—even allowing for the charming inno-
cence of the vegetable kingdom—needs setting on its
metrical feet. “Variations on a Printing Press,” by
Charles Porter, deals with a printer’s nervous break-
down ; the roar of the presses swelling and fading
throughout. There is an engaging naturalness in this
play, though it is questionable whether the killing of
the printer just after he seems to have benefited
through conversation with an old woman on a park
bench is aesthetically justifiable. “Sending Grannie
Off,” by Morris Hay Simpson, a burlesque, rings
the changes —quite successfully—on a stock theme,
and Alexander Turner, in “Hester Siding,” set in the
Westralian apple country, shows, by clever audile
suggestion and the reporting of desultory conversa-
tion, considerable skill in reproducing life’s surface
realities.
Memorable among the stage plays of general
character is Louis Esson’s “Andeganora,” a story of
conflict between white and black, with a Northern
Territory campfire setting. Like the same author’s
“The Drovers,” its power is in its atmosphere and
suggestion. Very stirring is old Andeganora’s chant-
ing over the fire as he incites his young tribesman
to kill the wife-stealing white man. Vance Palmer
has successfully transcribed for the stage “Ancestors,”
a short story that first appeared in The Bulletin
and later in the volume Separate Lives, and which
is, incidentally, one of his finest short works. The
setting is a Wiltshire cottage, the leading characters
an Australian soldier and his great-aunt, a woman in
her dotage, who confuses the Great War with the
Crimean War, and Snowy with his grandfather, who
was transported for poaching. In one easy sweep
it takes in a wide swathe of history, character and
racial outlook ; a rich and subtle piece of work.
Dora Wilcox contributes a fantasy. “The Four-
poster,” in which a young woman sleeping for the
first time in an old bed which is a family heirloom
is visited by the ghosts of some of her ancestors and
by a burglar whom she mistakes for another ghost.
There is an acceptable story here, thrills and laughs
in plenty and a good curtain. A double entendre in
the dialogue between the lady and the burglar seems
to strike a false note, but that is a matter of detail,
not of dramatic fundamentals. “Dampier’s Ghost,”
by Henrietta Drake-Brockman, very competently ex-
ploits, in a pearling-port setting, a plot of the maga-
zine-story kind. Miles Franklin, in “No Family,”
tells the story of the adoption by an elderly Australian
couple of an English girl who mistakenly believes her-
self to be the wife of their deceased-soldier son and
the mother of his child. It is a shade too facile in
the working out, but some interest attaches to the
outspoken maid, who is a character in the true Frank-
linian tradition. “At Dusk,” by Millieent Armstrong,
is technically competent, and there is some psycholo-
gical interest in the girl who goes in fear of her one-
time lover, though the quality of the play is lowered
by the sensationalism that is invoked toward the end.
“Stampede,” by Bernard Cronin, shows the emotional
release following the breaking of a drought, when
relationships between a farmer, his wife and hired
man, strained and distorted, return to normal with
the falling of the rain. It does not carry conviction
as an intimate revelation, but it is well made and
should play satisfactorily.
Three dramatists exploit the historic scene. In
“Pioneers,” Katharine Susannah Prichard returns to
the atmosphere of her first novel. A settler’s wife
gives help to a couple of escaped convicts and a false
lead to their pursuers. The play is dramatically com-
petent, but without penetration either in historic out-
look or in characterisation. “Morning,” by Betty
Roland, dated 1835, tells of a ticket-of-leave man,
living in a hut in the Blue Mountains and maintain-
ing himself and his family by theft, who murders a
prospector returning from the newly-discovered gold-
fields for the gold he has on him and to prevent him
giving information as to his place of hiding. It should
play well, though reflection shows the historic and
human probabilities to be somewhat strained. “The
Trap,” by Stewart Macky, set in Norfolk Island, 1840,
points the fear and incredulity of a convict, a notori-
ous bad ’un, debased by ill-treatment, when con-
fronted with and asked to respond to the humanitarian
intentions of a newly-arrived Governor. Macky has
captured a lot in this. His convict has personal as
well as general significance, and his characters live
not in our historic past but in their present. His
introduction of convict argot, or “flash patter,”
though not of major importance, gives sturdy help
to the illusion.
There are two plays of symbolic character, both
of quality. “Searchlights,” by Sydney Tomholt, com-
bines symbolism effectively with realism —and the
better for leaving the audience unsure, as to where
one ends and the other begins. A significant search-
light—acceptably explained—plays intermittently on a
shrine of remembrance during dialogue between a
grieving young woman and what, it is to be supposed,
is the Unknown Warrior, temporarily reincarnated.
Each grieves for life and love ended before they
began, the woman passionately, the man with casual
stoicism. The city is suggested by the distant whine
of trams and other faint noises off. A sympathetic
piece of work, ending with the woman returning un-
willingly to the world and the soldier, at the changing
of a ghostly guard, to his tomb. “Easter,” by Dulcie
Deamer, is a morality play. The scene is in front of
a burial vault in a garden, and the action purports to
take place in the brain of a recently-dead man. Love,
Wisdom, Skill and Memory, comforting each other
in their grief, are ordered on their way by Policeman
Death, at whose heels follows Decadence to wreck
the garden. Love is persistent in her importuning at
the door of the vault, and through her devotion comes
the resurrection and the reunion of the man with his
nobler attributes. This play is firm in construction,
finished in detail, and has beauty and emotional
strength.
In reviewing Best Australian One-act Plays a
watch has been kept against the indulgent attitude,
always a temptation where budding enterprise is
concerned, and always in the end unhelpful. There
remains the important consideration of the editors’
wisdom of choice. Personal taster-supported, it may
be, by good judgment —will rise to exclaim: “Why
was this insignificant item included and that play of
undoubted merit overlooked?” This is inevitable but
(Continued on page 8.)


TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”—AIways.
IN MEN'S SPRING WEAR FROM
ANTHONY
HORDERNS'
{Pieces
; f*
-v
_y
r
Sports Coats
Here’s a comfortable Coat for the
active sportsman. Made with the
latest style .features, including
action-back and pleated pockets.
All Wool Summer-weight fabric
in the new Blue Grey. At Anthony
Horderns’, 35/-. Others, 38/6,
\ 15/-. English Tweeds, 49/6, 59/6.
SPORTS TROUSERS
For sports wear we recommend these Trousers. Good-
looking styles in the new Greys.' Self-supporting . . •
no belt or braces being required. Elasta Strap.
At Anthony Horderns’ .... 23/6, 29/6, 35/-,
“Gripu,” Prices • • 25/-, 30/-, 35/-
“Slaks” 30/-. 35/-, 42/-
' V
#■■■*
Irish Donegal 2 p’cefuit
The outdoor man will appreciate the
superb comfort of this real Irish Donegal
Two-piece Suit. The fabric is depend-
able for wear and service. At Anthony
Horderns’ 79/6
Men’s Jodhpurs, 22/6
These splendid Jodhpurs will wear and
wear. Made of very strong Fawn Riding
Twists by experts in our own workrooms.
Jodhpurs are economical, too, because they
dispense with leggings.
At Anthony Horderns’ 22/6
“THE SENIOR STORE.'
c*
mm
English Sac SUITS
English Sac Suits that will give long, hard
wear. Skilful, dependable tailoring and
satisfactory fit, plus the real English style,
make them excellent value. Fancy Blues
or Greys. At Anthony Horderns’, £B/8/-,
£9/9/-.
0 Men’s Wear
Ground Floor, George
Street. Freight paid to
all railway stations in
N.S.W. and seaports in
the Commonwealth.
■ .
$
\
y
SUITS TO MEASURE
Spring calls for a new suit. Have it
tailored by Anthony Horderns’ experts,
and select from the best Australian
Suitings in Fancy Greys, Fancy Blues,
Neat Browns, Plain Greys and Indigo
Serge. At Anthony Horderns’, 105/-.
Others: 126/-, 147/-, 168/-, 189/-, 210/-.
FOOTW
.
■lt
! 1
Men’s Sandals, 13/9
One of the most comfortable styles you
could possibly wear for sports or general
service. A choice of Tan Calf and fancy
designs. At Anthony Horderns’ . . 13/9
Others 15/6, 17/6
Men's Golf Shoes,2s/-
Soft and comfortable, these “Tree” Brand
Golf Shoes are as practical as they are good
looking. Made of Oil-grained Leather in
Moccasin or Plain Derby style. Light flexible
rubber soles. At Anthony Horderns’, 25/-.


A Light-Hearted New Serial
NO TRAIN ON TUESDAY
BY J.B. BLAIR
ILLUSTRATED BY UNK WHITE.
AUTHOR’S NOTE:
As far as I am aware there is no town
of Terrigan either inside or outside N.S.W.
If there is a billygoat named Baldy I have
never met him, and any resemblance which
he or any other persons may find in the story
to himself or themselves is entirely fortuitous.
CHAPTER IV.
HAT Jerry did or thought about while
IsT mm i the Imperial Airways ’plane was speed-
WM m ® ing him towards London has for the
a il most P art little bearing on this history,
but there was one matter which does
concern us and which he frequently
dwelt on during the trip, in an endeavor to recall all
its details.
His mind went back to an experience he had
had a couple of years previously while on a solitary
vacation hike in Huntingdonshire. He had arrived
just after nightfall at the small village of Whitewell,
and approached the local inn. Signs of high jollity
were in evidence. The inn was decorated with holly
and oak leaves, and its large room was packed to the
doors and overflowing. Sounds of revelry and singing
greeted him. He drew near and listened.
“We are Jacobites warm and true,
A small but gallant crew’’
came forth the chorus.
Jerry pushed his way into the bar. The singing
ceased and a typical English squire commenced a
speech in which he spoke freely of “the usurper
George,” of “the holy martyr Charles” and of “the
glorious Restoration which we, now celebrate.” More
“usurper George” talk, some references to the “Hano-
verian - Guelph - Saxe - Coburg -Windsorite prince of
Wales,” led up to the toast “Our Royal Sovereign and
Gracious Majesty King Rupert the First,” which was
drunk with musical honors, “Will Ye No’ Come Back
Again?” and “Jacobites Warm and True” vying for
pride of place.
Someone pushed a mug of ale into Jerry’s hand,
and he quaffed with gusto.
“Ah wish the braw leddie waur wi’ us the noo! ”
sighed a voice at his elbow.
“Rather!” agreed Jerry warmly.
“Ha’ ye met him?” asked the owner of the voice,
a red-faced, thickset man dressed in coarse tweeds.
“Who?” asked Jerry politely.
“Why, the King! King Rupert!”
“What’s he King of?”
Fortunately, perhaps, Jerry’s question passed
unheard, as the gentleman who had proposed the toast
chose that moment to call out “The Bonfire. To the
Bonfire!” and this and the resultant shout from the
assembled company distracted the red-faced one’s
attention.
“Come on,” he said, “we’ll gang and burn auld
Wartnose.”
This fearsome suggestion was received with dis-
tinct approval by the company.
“Hooray! Burn old Wartnose!” they shouted,
and, quickly draining their tankards, the crowd poured
out of the inn, jostling Bannister along with them.'
Down the village street they went, then through a gate
into a field, in the centre of which a large bonfire
had been built.
For the most part the crowd seemed to consist
of villagers, but the Scot who had kept close by him
all the way was definitely no villager, and the man
who had done the speech-making and three or four
others who walked with him across the field seemed
to be above the farm-laborer level.
“Who’s that!” asked Jerry, nodding towards the
orator, who was now leading the singing.
“Hoots! Dinna ye ken oor leader? Yon’s the
Chief, Mr. Lovelock. Whaur are ye from that ye
don’t know Mr. Lovelock?”
“I’m from Australia.”
“Australia! Weel! Weel! Yon’s a gr-r-reat
distance tae come. Ah’m frae Inverbannock maser.
Australia! Ye must meet the Chief. Coom on!”
They hastened forward and joined the group.
“Mr. Lovelock, sir,” said the Scot, “wull ye meet
a brither frae Australia, who’s come all this way for
to attend the celebrations? It’s Mr.”
“Bannister,” supplied Jerry.
“The Chief” shook hands warmly.
“All the way from Australia, eh? Well, well,
welcome, Mr. Bannister, to our jolly band. A great
rally, sir. A great rally. We gain in numbers every
year. But a little time now, Mr. Bannister, and the
usurper will be forced to flee this land for ever, and
once again a Stuart king will sit upon the throne of
his fathers.”
“Set un alight!” cried eager voices around the
pile.
“Yes. Burn un. Burn old Noll! Burn old
Wartnose! ”
“The Chief” rose on to a tree stump, and held
up his hand for order. He got it, more or less, then
asked, “Where’s the effigy?”
“Here un be, Mr. Lovelock. Here be old Noll.”
“Bring it forward.”
From the back of the throng some men pressed
their way through carrying an effigy of the sort Jerry
had seen carried round by children on Guy Fawkes
Day. A storm of hooting and abuse arose from the
crowd, till Lovelock again restored order and began
to speak. He spoke of the scoundrel Cromwell, the
Royal Martyr, the usurper George, and much more
to the same effect, each sentence being punctuated
by cheers. At a sign from him the effigy was hurled
on to the top of the stack. Then, amid cheers, he
applied a torch to the pile.
As the fire blazed brightly, fireworks were pro-
duced and a merry celebration ensued. When they
were exhausted and the blazing pile burnt low (Crom-
well himself hadn’t lasted long) the leaders tried to
get the songs going again.
f “We are Jacobites warm and true,
A small but gallant crew,’’
they chimed, but the response was not so spontaneous
as earlier in the evening, and after giving three cheers
for King Rupert the procession returned once more
to the inn.
Mr. Lovelock halted at the door, and turned to
address the crowd. “My friends, I thank you one and
all for your loyal co-operation. You have displayed
a degree of loyalty I should never have dreamed
remained in England. Be of good cheer. At present
you are ground down by the tyranny of the usurper,
but it will not be long before the rightful king comes
into his own again.”
He paused and held up his hand for silence.
“There will be one more round of drinks,” he
announced. “Now, come on fellow-Jacobites. Three
cheers for King Rupert. Hip, hip”
“Hooray! ”
Mr. Lovelock was thus able to record in his diary
that night that “the cheers were given with a will.”
Half an hour later, the villagers, having drunk
the last of the free beer and dispersed to their homes,
and Mr. Lovelock and his friends having also de-
parted, Jerry found himself alone in the bar with his
Scots friend.
“Now,” he said as they faced each other across
their whiskies, “d’you mind telling me what it’s all
about? What did we burn Cromwell for? Who is
King Rupert? Where’s he live?”
The Scot looked at him in amazement.
“But, mon,” he protested, “I thocht ye waur ane
of us. Are ye no’ a Jacobite?”
“No,” replied Jerry. “Of course,” he added
hastily, “I’ve always been a great admirer of Bonnie
Prince Charlie, but I can’t help thinking that his
chances of getting the throne back just about dis-
appeared when he died. About a hundred and fifty
years ago, wasn’t it?”
“Aye, but the Stuart line didn’t die oot wi’ puir
Charlie.”
“No, I know there was his brother Henry, but
he died too, you know.”
“Aye, but theer waur still Stuarts —where do the
Hanoverian usurpers derive their claim?”
Jerry cast back over his historical knowledge.
“Through Sophia, Electress of Hanover, granddaughter
of James the First.”
“Aye! Weel, supposing theer was a body alive
to-day who could prove descent frae Jamie’s son,
Charles the First, wouldna he be closer to the royal
stem than your present reigning Hoose?”
“Yes, I suppose he would.”
“Then,” returned the Scot triumphantly, “Rupert
should be King of Great Britain. Our legitimate
sovereign, descended frae Henrietta, daughter of
Charles the First. He bides in Bavaria the noo, but
some day we’ll see the braw laddie on the throne of
his fathers.”
In the next half-hour Jerry had learned quite a
lot about the Jacobites —how certain families in Eng-
land and Scotland had steadfastly kept up the Stuart
tradition, and had in successive generations paid
allegiance to titular sovereigns, Charles 111., Henry
IX., Charles IV., Victor 1., Mary 111., Francis 1., Mary
IV., and now to Rupert I. The McTaggarts of Inver-
bannock, of which Jerry’s companion was the present
Laird, were one such family. Sir Hamish McTaggart
informed Jerry, after two more whiskies, that “the
Hielan’s waur a’ for Rupert.” One word and the
clansmen would rise. Two drinks later he tried to
persuade him to carry the fiery cross throughout Aus-
tralia.
The landlord saved Jerry from incurring the old
Jacobite’s undying hatred by reminding them that
it was time to close the bar.
“Ane more toast then,” said Sir Hamish.
“King Rupert into his ain,” he offered. All three
drank gravely, then Sir Hamish walked off with dig-
nity towards his room.
“Queer old chap,” confided the landlord. “They
all are. Want to put some foreign joker on the throne
instead of George the Fifth. Fancy havin’ a king
called Rupert! Why, the country’d go to the dogs.
You’re not One I hope, sir?”
Jerry shook his head.
“Well, they’re a cranky lot, the whole six of ’em.”
“Six ! I thought there were hundreds of them.
“Oh, the rest were just the farm lads. They join
in for fun, and for the free beer. Give ’em beer, and
they’d shout for anything. Why, they’d even give three
cheers for prohibition if y’ got ’em drunk enough.
No, there’s only six. Mr. Lovelock and four of his
friends from round about, an’, of course, Sir Hamish,
that always comes down from Scotland for it.”
NEXT morning Jerry had been up early; his plan
had been to have an early breakfast, and get on the
track again. Hardly was he seated at the table than
Sir Hamish entered.
THE BEGINNINGS OF THE REVOLT.
Terrigan, a small N.S.W. South Coast town,
has had its Tuesday train service discontinued.
At the meeting of protest Jerry Bannister, a
young lawyer, hoping for some excitement,
arranges with a friend to propose that the dis-
trict secede from New South Wales and the
Commonwealth.
The meeting is wildly enthusiastic. Hiram
Pettigrew, an American millionaire pickle-
manufacturer with a grievance against the
Sydney traffic laws, staying in Terrigan, offers
to guarantee its share of the national debt.
The motion is agreed to.
A Committee of Action is formed to
draw up a Constitution. As a preliminary step
Jerry flies to London, promising to bring back
a Governor for the Dominion of Terrigan.
Prominent members of the Committee of
Action are : —
Mr. Napper, the schoolmaster; Mr.
Peperell, the shire president; the post-
master, Mr. Mutton; Bannister, senior, the
bank manager; and the stationmaster, Mr.
Buckenara.


“Guid day, mon,” he hailed Jerry. “So ye’re tak-
ing th’ early train, too?”
Bannister shook his head and explained that he
was continuing his hike. The Scot, semi-immersed in
an enormous plate of porridge, asked a few questions
regarding the length and purpose of the hike. Then,
putting down his spoon, he leant across the table.
“Hoo lang does your va-cation last?”
Jerry told him there was a fortnight left.
“Then ye maun spen’ it wi’ me.”
Jerry protested that he couldn’t dream of imposing
on Sir Hamish, but his would-be host was insistent.
“Ye’ve no been tae Scotland,” he pointed out. “Ye
must come wi’ me tae Inverbannock. Ah’ll gie ye
shooting on the moors an’ fishing in the burn, and ye
can walk a’ th’ day if ye’ve a mind tae.”
The outcome was the best holiday Jerry had ever
experienced, and although during his remaining two
years in England he had not again visited Inverbannock
he had kept up a correspondence with his host and
had a standing invitation to run up there whenever he
felt inclined.
A FTER the Imperial Airways ’plane reached Croy-
don, Bannister spent a couple of days in London,
then caught the Flying Scotsman to Edinburgh, travel-
ling thence to Inverbannock.
As Jerry and the little Scottish maidservant
approached Sir Hamish’s apartment in Inverbannock
Castle, their ears were assailed by a mighty volume of
screeching and shrieking.
“Good heavens, what’s that?” asked Jerry.
“Why, t’ pipes, o’ course,” returned the girl. “ ’Tis
Angus with the Laird. D’ye no’ remember Angus?”
“You bet I do, but who’s helping him?”
“ ’Tis naebody but Angus. He does it all hissel’,”
said the girl proudly.
“Impossible. It’d be beyond human lung-power.”
As though to disprove this statement, the pipes
blared forth louder than ever. The maid knocked,
opened the door and followed Jerry in.
“ ’Tis Mister Bannister, sir,” she shrieked, in
competition with the skirling of the pipes.
“Why, so it is,” shouted back the Laird of Inver-
bannock. “Angus! Have be! Weelcome, Jerry, ma
lad! Weelcome! ”
Angus ceased to blow. The pipes slackened down
from a screech to a wail, from a wail to a moan, and
then protestingly died away. Angus looked aggrieved
and greeted Jerry with a surly nod.
“What brings ye here, Jerry?” asked Sir Hamish.
“It seems only yesterday ye left for Australia. How
did ye get back sae quickly?”
“Flew back.”
“Ye came in wan o’ those aeroplanes! Mercy
on us. An’ ye’re alive to tell the tale! Lad, but it
was foolhardy o’ ye.”
“Nonsense, sir. They’re safe as houses. I’m going
back the same way.”
“Going back again! When?”
“As soon as possible. Within a few days I hope.”
“No’ sae fast, laddie. Ye maun stay at Inver-
bannock a wee while.”
“Afraid not, sir. I must be back at the earliest
possible moment.”
“But I want ye tae stay awhile.”
Jerry paused a moment, then “I was hoping, sir,
that you’d come back with me.”
“What! Go to Australia! An’ fly there! Mon,
ye’re joking.”
“No, Sir Hamish, I’m quite serious.”
“Thank ye, laddie, for the invitation. I’ve nae
doot ye mean it kindly, but I’m no’ leavin’ Scotland,
and I’m no’ going up in an aeroplane, so don’t ask
me. I’d no’ do it for anybody.”
“Not even for—the Cause?”
“The Cause! What do ye mean? What’s the
Cause got tae do with it?”
“Not even if King Rupert requested it?”
“His Majesty would no’ want me tae go to Aus-
tralia. What good could Ido the Cause there?”
“Read this, Sir Hamish.”
He handed the Laird an impressive-looking parch-
ment.
Sir Hamish read it, and his eyes almost popped
out of his head. “Losh, mon! What’s it all mean? A
colonial appointment! And signed by King Rupert!
It canna be true.”
“Well, there it is. It looks genuine enough to me.
Real parchment, hand engrossed and enough seals
to sink a battleship. And there’s the signature—
Rupert.”
“Aye, it looks real enough, but 1 dinna under-
stan’. Why should his Majesty choose me?”
“Why not? You’ve always been one of his most
loyal supporters.”
“Aye, that’s so. But where did ye get it? Did
his Majesty”
“Hush!” said Jerry warningly. “You know how
it is with the Cause. Orders must be given and obeyed
without question. Of what use my telling you where /
got the parchment. It may have passed through a
dozen hands before it reached mine. You know how
essential secrecy is to the Cause?”
Sir Hamish nodded mysteriously. “It’s a handsome
document,” he said appraisingly. “It must ha’ cost a
pretty penny wi’ all this fine lettering.”
“Three guineas, not counting the seals,” replied
Jerry proudly and unthinkingly.
“It’s a lot o’ money,” said the Laird—then a trifle
suspiciously, “How d’you know?”
Jerry realised his slip. “Well, of course, I don’t
know what this one cost, but I should say from my
experience of the engrossing of legal documents that
it’d be about that amount. Of course, the King would
probably employ his own Royal Engrosser.”
“Ah, that’d make it a bit cheaper,” Sir Hamish
approved.
He studied the parchment again. “Governor, eh?
So his Majesty wants to appoint me Governor of —
what is it? Terrigan! Whaur wad that be? Some-
where in Ireland?”
“No. In Australia. That’s why I want you to
come with me.”
“To Australia! Why, that’s on the other side
o’ the world. I couldna gae there!”
“The Cause, Sir Hamish,” reminded Jerry.
“Oh, aye!” said the Laird despairingly. “But
his Majesty wadna want that. For why should he want
me to gang to Australia? Surely there’s some post
nearer hame he could appoint me to. Couldna I
look after Scotland for him?”
“It’s not for me to question his Majesty’s com-
mands,” said Jerry with the air of one who would
cheerfully have gone to the South Pole to govern
penguins had King Rupert suggested it. “It’s a com-
mand, you know. The Stuarts don’t request, they
command. Loyal Jacobites obey without question.”
Sir Hamish drew himself up. “I’m no’ disputing
it,” he protested, “but his Majesty may ha’ overlooked
the fact that Scotland needs a Governor, too. Why not
appoint you to Terrigan? Perhaps if I paid him a
visit he’d alter the appointment.”
Jerry surveyed him with stern mien.
“Sir Hamish,” he said. “For over two hundred
and fifty years your fathers have been faithful to the
Jacobite cause. Without reward and almost without
hope they have held to their belief in the ultimate
triumph of the Stuart kings. Anyone of them would
have given twenty years of his life for the chance
which is now yours. Are you going to let them down?
Are you going to prove unworthy of your sires who
bled at Killiecrankie and Drumossie? I think not!
I am certain you will not fail them. You will accept
the heavy responsibility that has been thrust upon you.
I feel it! I know it!”
His speech had almost moved Sir Hamish to tears.
“I’ll do it, mon,” he said softly. “I’ll no’ let
King Rupert down.”
“I knew it, Sir Hamish. And King Rupert knew
it. He knew you would be worthy of his trust.”
There was a pause. Then Jerry got down to
business. He bowed. “Well, your Excellency, when
shall we start?”
The new vice-regent pondered awhile. “Let me
see. I’m tae fish in Cameron’s burn next week, and
the week after there’ll be”
“But good heavens, sir. You can’t leave it that
long. This is vital. His Majesty’s command! We’ll
have to leave immediately!”
“Immediately?” returned the Laird blankly.
“Yes. It’s imperative that no time be lost. Speed
is the essence of the contract. Terrigan awaits you,
and if you don’t get there quickly anything might
happen. There’s a ’plane leaving London the day after
to-morrow. I think we should catch that.”
“A ’plane. Ye mean we’ll fly oot t’ Australia?”
Sir Hamish’s voice quavered.
“It’s the only way. Our duty is to get there as
quickly as possible.”
“A’ richt. We’ll do it! ” It was the most heroic
speech of Sir Hamish’s career, and it brought a look of
approval and admiration to Jerry’s face. At the same
time it brought a howl of anguish from Angus, who
had been sitting glumly in the corner during the
interview. “Na, na, Sir Hamish. We canna gang.
We’ll have tae bide a wee. We canna gang the noo.”
Jerry looked round in surprise. Angus hadn’t
entered into his plans. He looked at Sir Hamish in-
quiringly. “Are you going to take him with you?”
“Of course, mon,” said the Laird. “I couldna
leave Angus behind.”
“We canna gang. We canna,” repeated Angus.
“There’s th’ bagpipes competitions next month. I
canna miss them.”
Jerry surveyed him sternly. “D’you mean to say
that for the sake of your chance of winning a com-
petition you’d let the Laird go out to Australia alone,
to take on the most difficult task in his career?”
“There’s plenty time,” mumbled Angus.
“There’s no time,” returned Jerry. “The Laird is
leaving here with me in the morning.”
“Ah don’t want tae miss the competitions. Thirty
years an’ more Ah’ve played.”
“Very well, then, stay here and play your pipes.
And when the day comes round for Sir Hamish to be
sworn in as Governor of Terrigan, just give a thought
to him, thirteen thousand miles away, amid all that
pomp and ceremony, with bands playing and people
cheering and ne’er a sound of the pipes to remind him
of Inverbannock.”
Tears stood out in Angus’s eyes. He turned to
walk from the room. At the door he looked back for
a moment. “Ah’ll be packin’ oor bags, Sir Hamish,”
he said.
The next hour was fraught with difficulty for
Jerry. King Rupert’s Governor-elect bombarded him
with questions. Where was Terrigan? What was its
size? Were the natives cannibals? Was there a stand-
ing army? What game did the place offer? What
was the revenue of the colony? Were the people all
loyal Jacobites? Had King Rupert ever been there?
Jerry endeavored to be as truthful as possible.
He explained that Terrigan was as yet but a small
Jacobite stronghold in the corner of a continent.
“We must move cautiously,” he said. “Every-
thing depends on how we proceed. That is why his
Majesty selected you. We must work gradually and
carefully. To start with it must not even be known
that we are Jacobites. Remember the rest of Australia
acknowledges George the Sixth. We are but few. You
will not hear his Majesty’s name mentioned in Terri-
gan, and you must be careful not to use it yourself.
George’s spies are everywhere. King Rupert wished us
to work silently. Terrigan has been selected as the
centre from which his power will spread until it
embraces the whole of Australia. Then it will continue
to spread throughout the British Dominions until it
reaches Britain herself, and Rupert will be crowned
A faint cheer came up to them
as the pilot cut out the engine.


king of a far greater realm than that which was filched
from his forefathers.”
Sir Hamish’s eyes shone. “God speed th’ day!”
In the meantime,” continued Jerry, “it is essential
that his Majesty keep in the background, living a
simple life on his Bavarian estates. For the present
it is we who must act, and you will be in the fore-
front. Not a man in the Cause but will envy you
your great honor —to be the first Governor in the first
dominion of the new Jacobite empire—King Rupert’s
first vice-regent!”
“Gosh,” thought Jerry to himself when the Laird
had gone out. “Thank the Lord that’s over. If I’d
had to keep it up much longer I’d be believing it my-
self.”
The fantastic idea of getting the old Jacobite to
act as Governor had seemed to him the only way of
securing a King’s representative to suit Terrigan’s
special needs. Certainly no responsible loyal citizen
of England would have agreed to accept vice-regal
responsibility in the circumstances, and, while the fak-
ing of credentials from a Bavarian country gentleman
whose claim to kingship existed in the minds of only
“a small but gallant crew” seemed to him a rather
clever and amusing piece of strategy, similar fakes
purporting to come from the real King of England
would have been quite a different matter.
CHAPTER V.
say we’ll be there in half an hour?” said
\ J Sir Hamish. “Losh, mon, but I’m scairt!”
y “Nothing to be afraid of, your Excel-
C lency,” replied Jerry. “You’ll feel quite at
home among us.”
“Ye’ll stick by me, won’t ye, Jerry?”
“Sure! ”
The small ’plane which had met them at Coota-
mundra was rapidly approaching its destination, and,
truth to tell, Jerry himself was feeling a little apprehen-
sive. Now that the moment was almost at hand when
he would have to present the Governor-elect to the
town and go through with what, after all, seemed to
him in his more lucid moments a harebrained scheme,
a certain amount of doubt crept into his mind —
especially as he pondered the telegram he had received
at Cootamundra.
Terrigan awaits arrival with breathless en-
thusiasm stop Parliament declared public holi-
day stop monster reception arranged at airport
stop can you arrange his Excellency wear full
regalia stop Napper.
Jerry’s plan had been to arrive quietly at Terri-
gan, introduce Sir Hamish to the members of the
committee, explain to them as much of the situation
as he thought fit, and then after a few days publicly
inaugurate the new Governor. Napper seemed to have
taken the ground from under his feet.
“Confound the man,” he thought, realising that,
if the committee welcomed Sir Hamish before he had
a chance of priming that body up, a very awkward
situation might arise.
And that bit about Parliament granting a holiday.
What on earth had Parliament to do with it? As
for the Governor wearing full regalia, that was one
thing he’d overlooked. Sir Hamish hadn’t a uniform
of any kind with him. Even his kilts and tartan were
following by steamer. Certainly Angus was wearing
his Highland costume, but it would scarcely fit Sir
Hamish.
“Oh, well,” he said aloud, “we’ll have to chance it.”
“What’s that?” asked the Laird.
“I was just thinking,” said Jerry, “about what I
told you about King Rupert’s desire for secrecy. You
won’t hear his name mentioned in Terrigan. This is
a necessary precaution. In a short time his name will
be heard from one end of the Empire to the other,
but for the present —not a whisper.”
“Aye, lad, I see,” agreed the last of the Jacobites.
“What about Angus?”
“Angus winna speak a word oot o’ place.”
From Jerry’s brief acquaintance with the piper he
was quite prepared to believe this. If growls, grunts
and Highland curses be excepted, Angus had hardly
spoken a word since leaving Inverbannock.
“We’re nearly there,” said Jerry, looking down.
“Ah.”
A few minutes later they were hovering over an
open paddock. Below them could be seen a large
crowd. As they descended a big marquee could be
made out, bedecked with flags. A faint cheer came
up to them as the pilot cut out the engine, and grew
louder as they lost altitude. A moment later and they
were taxi-ing along the ground.
“Well, here we are!” cried Jerry.
“Aye, here we are,” echoed the Laird.
Angus gave a grunt which might have been meant
to express either agreement or the reverse. He seized
his bagpipes and, without waiting for his master or
the young barrister, opened the door of the ’plane and
clambered out. The door swung behind him.
“Angus is pleased the trip’s over,” laughed Jerry.
“You’ll never get him to fly back again.”
“You’ll no’ get me to fly back, for that matter,”
replied Sir Hamish.
“Well, we’d better follow him, I suppose,” said
Jerry. “Buck up, sir! They’ll be expecting a lot of
you, you know.”
“I’m nervous, lad!”
“Don’t worry. It’ll pass off. Remember ... for
Rupert and the Cause!”
“Aye, lad. For Rupert and the Cause.”
“Hang it all! What’s wrong with the door? I
can’t open it.”
Sir Hamish tried with no success. “Leave it, lad.
The pilot’ll open it presently.”
Meanwhile an extraordinary scene was being
staged below, and the two temporary prisoners had an
uninterrupted view of it.
When Angus, dressed in full Highland costume,
had leapt down from the ’plane, clasping his bagpipes
under his arm, the cheering, which had been loud
before, rose to deafening proportions. All Terrigan
was there in its Sunday best. Boy Scouts, Girl Guides
and schoolchildren of lesser degree formed a lane
from the spot where it was hoped the pilot would
have been able to bring his ’plane to a standstill to
the entrance to the marquee, and behind them on each
side stood Terrigan’s youth and beauty, its matrons
and its fathers, its grandams and its wise men.
The last term is in no way meant as .a reflection
upon the Committee of Action and the Shire Council,
the members of which were grouped in the foreground,
with Mr. Napper, Mr. Peperell and Hiram Pettigrew
standing as chief welcomers in the forefront. Mr.
Napper and Mr. Peperell looked important and expect-
ant, Mr. Pettigrew hot and a little crestfallen.
“I’m not making a fool of myself at all, Sally,”
he was protesting to the slim, fair-haired young girl
clinging to his arm.
Standing there beside her rugged, unhandsome old
father, Sally Pettigrew, with her neat figure and pretty
vivacious face, was convincing proof that Hiram’s
judgment in the matter of wives, as of pickles, must
have been unsurpassed.
“You sure are," she replied. “A first-rate fool!”
“Nix! I’ve promised to put my money into this
show and I’ve gotter see it through. This Governor
giqk’ll be the goods. He’s from England. That makes
it O.K. with me.”
“O.K. to lose all your dough and land yourself
in an Australian gaol. That’s what it looks like to
me.” •
“Now, look here, Sally”
A surging movement of the crowd cut short
Hiram’s defence, and made him again aware of the
proximity of Napper and Peperell.
“Stand by, Mr. Pettigrew,” said the former. “It
won’t be long now.”
The idea had been for the vice-regal party, after
being greeted on behalf of the town by the Chief
Welcomers, to walk down the lane of Boy Scouts, Girl
Guides and schoolchildren of lesser degree into the
marquee where the reception proper was to be held.
But, as ever in Terrigan, things refused to go strictly
according to plan. The ’plane came to a . halt about
half-way along the line. The three Chief Welcomers,
being thus some forty yards from the new welcoming
point, hastily began to push their way towards it. The
rest of the Committee of Action and the shire coun-
cillors followed, and those of the general public in
the vicinity, not wishing to miss anything, pressed
forward also.
The Boy Scouts made a valiant effort to stand their
ground, but their line was broken by sheer weight of
numbers, and in a few seconds the aeroplane was the
centre of a struggling mass of eager Governor-
welcomers, cheering madly.
It was at this moment that Angus in all his glory
opened the door of the ’plane and leaped down. Find-
ing himself the centre of a milling throng, he looked
anxiously back to see if Jerry and the Laird were
following, but, owing to the jambed door, they did
not appear. He turned again. The three Chief Wel-
comers were standing before him, hats in hand. One
of them was speaking, but the cheering of the crowd
drowned his words completely.
“Th’ Laird’s in yon,” announced Angus, nodding
towards the ’plane, but his words fell on deaf ears.
Angus’s idea had been to pipe the Laird ashore,
and he now stood with bagpipes ready, waiting for
the door to open. Mr. Napper, still talking, came a
step nearer. Angus motioned him back with a wave of
his hand. Mr. Napper, misinterpreting the gesture,
seized the hand and shook it warmly. Mr. Peperell
and Hiram Pettigrew followed suit. Even Sally man-
aged a smile and a “How d’you do?”
Angus, touched by the warmth of the welcome,
decided that the only thing to do was to acknowledge
it in the manner most suited to his attainments. The
pipes began to skirl.
This put the finishing touches to the crowd’s en-
thusiasm. It surged in on the Welcoming Committee.
Angus was seized, hoisted shoulder high, and. still
playing his pipes, was borne off in triumph towards the
marquee. The Chief Welcomers, the Committee of
Action and the Shire Council tagged along in the rear.
AT the entrance Angus switched from “Bonnie
Dundee” to “The Campbells Are Cornin’.” Other-
wise there was no change in the order of the proces-
sion. When Angus’s bearers reached the official table,
placed on a platform in the centre of the marquee,
they put him down and conducted him to his seat
Angus, bewildered by the overwhelming nature of
his reception, endeavored to protest, but no one took
any notice. Napper and co. were permitted to struggle
up to the platform, and at once proceeded to take
command again.
“I must apologise, your Excellency,” said Napper,
“for the exuberance of the people. They are so pleased
to see you, you know, that they can’t control their
enthusiasm.”
“Losh, mon, if they’d do a’ that tae me, what
wad they be doin’ tae th’ Laird?” asked Angus.
The point of this question was not clear to Mr.
Napper, but he had other things to think of.
“I’ll just say a few words, your Excellency,” he
whispered.
“What aboot lettin’ th’ Laird oot o’ th’ aery-
plane?”
“Out of the ’plane? Oh, I see, your luggage.
Yes, your Excellency, that’s being attended to. Now—
er”
He rose to his feet.
“Fellow-citizens of Terrigan,” he began, “we are
here to-day to welcome to our midst as his Majesty’s
representative in this, his newest Dominion, his
Excellency Sir Hamish McTaggart.” (Cheers.)
“Why dinna he wait for th’ Laird?” asked Angus
of Hiram in a hoarse whisper. Mr. Pettigrew didn’t
understand, so he nodded and smiled.
“Th’ crazy loon,” muttered Angus to himself.
Mr. Napper continued his speech. “Sir Hamish
has already endeared himself to us by his spontaneous
acceptance of our welcome, and by his democratic
yet truly Scottish response to it [cheers], and we feel
sure that his sojourn among us will be marked by good-
will and understanding between all of us. And so,
Sir Hamish”
“He’s shoot in th’ ’plane,” said Angus desperately,
but Mr. Napper’s flow of rhetoric was not to be
denied.
“And so, Sir Hamish,” he continued, “on behalf
of all the citizens of Terrigan I welcome you to your
new Jiome. In so doing, I must assure you of our un-
swerving loyalty to the Throne and to you, sir, its
living embodiment among us. After your long and
tiring journey we do not wish to weary you with tire-
some speeches, but we felt that this little informal
welcome would better convey to you our feelings of
loyalty than would the official inauguration which will
take place in a day or so. Sir Hamish, on behalf of
Terrigan, I welcome you.” (Loud and prolonged
cheers.)
Mr. Napper sat down and glanced at Angus, who
was struggling to say something above the din. Napper
inclined his ear respectfully.
“Ah’m no’ th’ Governor,” said Angus.
“I beg your pardon, your Excellency?”
“Ah’m no’ th’ Governor,” Angus shouted.
Mr. Napper smiled. “No, of course, not yet, your
Excellency, but you will be in a day or so.”
Angus grew desperate. “Ah’m no’, ah’m no’!”
“Your Excellency,” said Mr. Napper gently.
“Would it be asking too much of you to say a few
words to the people? Just a few words, sir?”
“Ah tell ye ah’m no’ th’ Governor!”
“But as Governor-designate, sir.”
“A’ richt!’ said Angus in desperation. “Ah’ll
speak!”
He rose to his feet amid cheers. From the far
side of the tent came a cry of “Give us a tune,” but
for the most part the audience was loyally enthusiastic.
As the noise died down Angus began to speak. “Ye’re
a’ calling me th’ Governor. Ah’m no’ th’ Governor.
Ah’m only a piper.”
This announcement was greeted with a burst of
laughter. Terrigan felt that it was going to like this
Governor. No frills about him, and he didn’t mind
having a joke with the crowd.
“Aye, ye can laugh,” went on Angus, “but let
me tell ye Ah’m th’ best piper in Perthshire [more
laughter], an’ there’s nae man in a’ the west o’ Scotian'
’ll deny it, save old Donald McGregor, and he’s nob-
but jealous o’ me.”
The laughter was a little less wholehearted this
time. People were beginning to wonder.
“But I’d be beatin’ him at th’ competitions again
this year, same as I ha’ before,” Angus told them
challengingly, “if that crazy loon Jerry Bannister hadna
persuaded th’ Laird tae coom oot tae this crazy
place. Governor! Ma worrd. Who’d want tae
govern a pack o’ daft half-wits! If ye want your
Governor ye’d better gang an’ let him oot o’ th’ aery-
plane, for that’s whaur he’s lockit richt now.”
He seized his pipes and stepped down from the
platform, then pushed his way through to the door
of the marquee. In amazement everyone gave way to
let him pass. Then, as he went outside, by common
decision the audience pressed out after him.
Angus hastened towards the ’plane, but was too
late. The pilot had just released the Laird and Jerry,
and they were walking in the direction of the marquee.
“Ye’re too late, Sir Hamish,” said Angus. “Your
weelcome’s over. Ah had it mysel’. Th’ crazy loons!
Ah’ll show ’em who’s th’ best piper in Perthshire.”
He turned again. Out skirled the “Camerons’
Gathering” as the three approached the oncoming
crowd.
CHAPTER VI.
JERRY’S forebodings proved to be well founded.
The good resolutions which the committee had
made before he left for England had not lasted
long. The decision to defer further action until
after the Governor’s arrival had been overruled in a
day or so by the get-something-done policy of Mr.
Napper.
Two days after Jerry’s departure Mr. Bannister,
the bank manager, was notified that £1,000,000 had
been received by his Sydney office for credit of a Mr.
Hiram Pettigrew, American citizen, whose address was
given as Terrigan. Had he any instructions? After
consultation Bannister instructed them to hold the
money for the credit of the Trustees of Terrigan. It
was this fund that was to indemnify Terrigan against
any charges of repudiation.
On receipt of this news Napper got busy. Another
public meeting elevated the Shire Council to the


dignity of a Parliament, adding to it the Committee
of Action.
The committee jibbed at the thought of calling
Mr. Pepperell Premier or Prime Minister —both titles
were too redolent of the tyranny from which they had
cut themselves free. President was equally out of the
question, since Terrigan was to be a self-governing
dominion, not a republic. Napper hit upon Chief
Man. It meant the same as the others, he claimed,
and had the advantage of being good honest Saxon.
So Chief Man Mr. Peperell became, and his first
Cabinet was announced almost immediately. Mr.
Napper was chosen as Minister for Education and
Propaganda, Mr. Buckenara, after a little self-conscious
protest, agreed to accept the portfolio of Minister for
Railways, while Mr. Mutton did not hesitate a moment
when asked to take upon his shoulders the respon-
sibilities of Postmaster-General.
Jerry was appointed {in absentia) Attorney-
General, and Hiram Pettigrew, as the holder of the
purse-strings, was voted, notwithstanding his
protests and his American citizenship, to the
post of Colonial Treasurer.
“Well, it’s a new one on me,” said
Hiram, “but I’ll give it a go. After all, it’s
my money, so I might as well keep an eye
on it.”
On the principle of in for a penny, in
Angus was seized, hoisted shoulder high, and, still playing his pipes, was borne off in triumph towards th _ marquee.
for a pound, he also agreed to finance for the present
any reasonable costs of government and propaganda,
His money had already paid the expenses of Jerry's
trip to England, so this was merely an extension of his
policy.
The threatened police reinforcements from Sydney
had not arrived to escort the American back to the
bar of justice, nor was any word forthcoming to
explain their non-arrival. In point of fact, they had
been called off the job, and sent to join in a man-hunt
after an escaped prisoner, but Terrigan knew nothing
of this, and Peter Dansie waited expectantly at the
station whenever the Sydney train was due. He had
made no more attempts to arrest Pettigrew, and con-
tented himself with what was intended for a scowl
but only succeeded in being a grimace every time he
passed the American in the street. He was troubled
and perplexed by the trend of events in the town.
“I don’t know really what I ought to do,” he
complained to his wife. “What with the council
calling itself a Parliament, and the postmaster calling
himself a general, and notices stuck up all round the
town, I don’t know what to make of it.”
“And don’t forget old Buckenara,” reminded his
wife acidly. “Railways Commissioner!”
I don t know what I ought to do, repeated the
policeman. “Why they want to pick on my town to do
it in I don’t know! I’ve never done anything to them!”
“You’ve never done anything to anybody!”
snapped his wife. “That’s just your trouble! Too
meek and mild! Too slow. With all these jobs going,
what are you doing? Just mooching round as if
nothin’ was happening.”
“Well, what can I do?”
“What can you do! You big gossoon! Why
aren’t you in on it? Trying to arrest a harmless
gentleman like Mr. Pettigrew. You ought to be
ashamed of yourself. He’s the best friend the town’s
ever had.”
“But, Mary. It’s against the law. There’s a
warrant out for his arrest The Government”
J; IUI b i t hr, /A *
The Government! What s the Government ever
done for you, except cut your salary! You and your
Government! If .you were half a man”—
Peter was fated not to learn what might have
~,,, , , f . *
happened had he been half a man, for at that moment
the doorbell rang loudly and Mrs. Dansie broke off
in mid-tirade to say, “Go on, see who it is.”
r, . ~/ , , . 11 a n./r xt
Peter opened the door and in walked Mr. Napper,
Hiram Pettigrew and Mr. Mutton. Mrs. Dansie was
5.11 smiles and flutters and hastened to offer them
all smiles and flutters, and hastened to otter them
chairs and make them comfortable.
“Well, this is an honor,” she beamed. “Now I’ll
just leave you to your business while I get you a cup
of tea. No, no, it’s not a scrap of trouble.”
“The fact is, Peter,” said the schoolmaster, or,
rather, the Minister for Education, when she had
gone, “we want to make you an offer. You can be
of great help to us, Peter.”
“I’ve got my duty to do,” replied Dansie.
“Of course, of course! So have we all. Our
duty to our King and our country. And our country
is Terrigan. You agree with that, don’t you, Peter?”
Peter grunted.
“As you know,” continued Napper, “we have
seceded from the Commonwealth and have formed a
new dominion. Terrigan needs men like you. Will
you accept the position of Commissioner of Police?”
“Look here, Mr. Napper, you know quite
well”
“Peter! Come and lend me a hand with this
kettle.” Mrs. Dansie’s voice came commandingly
from the kitchen. Obediently the policeman left the
room.
“You’ll never get him to agree,” said Mr. Mutton.
“Th’ boneheaded flatfoot,” grunted Hiram Petti-
grew.
“Oh, I shouldn’t be surprised if Peter listens to
reason,” returned Mr. Napper.
Mrs. Dansie’s voice could be heard haranguing
her husband in the kitchen. Presently he returned to
the waiting three.
“All right, I’ll take it,” he said surlily.
“Good man, Peter. I knew you’d stand by us,”
congratulated the Minister for Education and Propa-
ganda.
“That’s the stuff. Shake on it!” This from the
Postmaster-General.
The Colonial Treasurer still had his doubts.
“Now there won’t be any more fool talk about
putting a guy in the cooler?” he asked.
The newly-appointed head of the police depart-
ment seemed disinclined to commit himself. Mrs.
Dansie saved the situation by arriving with the tea.
Mr. Mutton apprised her of her husband’s new status.
“You don’t say,” she cried. “Peter a Commis-
sioner of Police! Well, you’d go a long way to find
a better, even if I do say it myself.
After the visitors had gone, Peter’s doubts and
fears once more assailed him.
“I don’t know what to do,” he groaned. “What’s
going to become of us all? It’s mutiny, that’s what
it is. It’s rebellion, that’s what it is.”
“It’s the biggest job you’re ever likely to get.
That’s what it is,” responded his wife. “And you’re
going to stick to it. That’s what you’re going to do.”
“Oh Lord! What’s going to become of us all,”
moaned Peter.
...
44 I HAT’LL put you up to date with public feeling
1 towards us,” said Mr. Napper, handing Jerry
a book of press clippings. Jerry began to go through
them. There was quite a formidable array, and a
nill vr chr.M/pH that nnhlin nnininn towards the
quick perusal showed that public opinion towai as me
new dominion varied considerably.
The “Thunderer,” in a sub-leader, said:-
Little credence will be given by intelligent readers
to the report on another page to the effect that the
™ all tow, l , of Terrigan, on the south coast, has seceded
from the Commonwealth and from the State of New
South Wales, and has declared itself a self-governing
dominion
The idea is ludicrous. It is almost as if a small boy
in the lowest form in one of the Great Public Schools
were suddenly to announce that henceforth he intended
to be indep endent of his masters, and would teach him-
self in a Great Public School of his own.
One can imagine with what amused tolerance the
headmaster would receive the situation, and a similar
attitude would probably be adopted by the Govern-
ments (State and Federal) in the unlikely contingency of
such a happening as that referred to.
However, the happening is one that is not only
unlikely but unthinkable.
Terrigan is predominantly agricultural, and the fine
work which the U.A.P. Governments, both Federal and
State, have done for the man on the land cannot but
have had the effect of convincing citizens there, as in
all other parts of the State in which reason and com-
monsense are not perverted by the pernicious doctrines
of Langism, that with the U.A.P. lies the country’s one
hope of salvation.
Without going into the constitutional difficulties in
the way of secession—and they are by no means in-
considerable —when it is pointed out that it would prob-
ably cost Terrigan more than half a million pounds to
cover her share of the national debt, the absurdity of
the suggestion at once becomes apparent.
The attitude of the “Trumpeter” was somewhat
different. Quoth its leaderwriter:
The report that Terrigan has announced its seces-
sion from New South Wales and the Commonwealth
will probably be received with smiling disbelief by
most of our readers. However, the matter is not as
ridiculous as the public may think. As soon as the
first reports were received “Trumpeter” representatives
were rushed to Terrigan at considerable expense, and
they deemed the situation so serious that they at once
telephoned the exclusive story appearing on page five.
Our representatives take a very serious view of the
whole business and state that Terrigan is certainly in
earnest. The primary reason given for the defection
is the curtailment of the town’s train service, and while
it might seem at first glance that this is the fault of
the State Government, a moment’s reflection will show
that it is really the Federal Government at Canberra
that is to blame.
Canberra, through the Loan Council, has consistently
kept this State’s allocation of loan money down to so
low a level that even essential services have had to
be drastically cut, and it is safe to say that, had the
New South Wales Government, which in the past five
years has by sound and efficient administration pointed
the way to other States, received from the Loan Council
its fair proportion of loan money, this trouble at Terri-
gan would never have occurred.
Jerry turned to the “Caucus News” contribution
to the discussion:
and, after all, it is only what could be expected
after five years of U.A.P. misrule in the State Parliament
and seven in the Federal. It would not be surprising
if the movement met with considerable support from
other towns.
The farmers, like the workers, are obviously heartily
sick of the U.A.P. policy of placing the big business
interests before those of the people, and it is safe to say
that if the Government were to risk an election to-
morrow it would suffer the biggest defeat in the history
of New South Wales.
Everywhere there are signs that Labor’s return to
office is eagerly awaited, not only by, etc., etc.
Other cuttings indicated the attitude of official-
dom.
Sydney, Wednesday. In the Legislative Assembly
Mr. asked the Premier what the Government pro-
posed to do regarding the reported secession 9f a certain
town on the south coast. The Premier replied that he
had no official confirmation of the report, and that the
Government did not propose taking any action for the
present.
Canberra, Wednesday. In the House of Representa-
tives yesterday afternoon Mr. O’Kelly (Lab., N.S.W.)
asked whether it was correct that the district of Terrigan
had seceded from the Commonwealth. The Acting-
Prime Minister, Dr. Gage, replied that the Government
had received no information in the matter.
Mr. O’Kelly: “What steps will the Government take
if it does?”
The A.-P. Minister: “That will be decided upon if
and when the situation arises.”
Mr. Watt (Lab., N.S.W.): “Will you send your army
over there?”
The A.-P. Minister (heatedly): “The question has
not arisen.”
Mr. Jardin (Lab., N.S.W.): “Lead ’em yourself!”
{Laughter.)
The debate, or rather Jerry’s perusal of it, was
interrupted at this stage by the arrival of Hiram Petti-
grew, out of breath and patience but, in between gasps
and puffs, most indignant and vociferous. “Don’t
care if he is a Governor! What’s a Governor, any-
way? He can’t do it to me! I won’t stand for it!”
“What’s wrong?” queried Jerry and Napper
together.
“What’s wrong? You ask me what’s wrong. A
crazy lunatic plays his infernal bagpipes for a solid
hour in the room above my head, and you ask me
what’s wrong!”
{Continued on page 50.)


not necessarily to the point. The vital question is
whether the editors have got together a collection
that is interesting, broadly representative of our best
effort and, above all, calculated to further the drama
in Australia. This they have done.
In an introduction editor T. Inglis Moore surveys
Australian drama critically—even provocatively, as
when he indulges in such a rash generalisation as the
statement that no Australian writer except Henry
Lawson in his short stories has captured the spirit
of outback life as completely as Louis Esson in his
one-act play “The Drovers.” Editor William Moore,
friend and accomplice of Australian dramatists —and
of Australian novelists, poets, painters, sculptors and
musicians—over a long lifetime, surveys the develop-
ment of Australian drama factually in an article that
is packed hard with information. The publishers have
done their share in the use of good paper, clear type
and a smart binding, turning out a book that handles
well and contains rather more than is usual for a
little less than the usual price.
The Business of Being Charming.
A book too preciously intimate, too tenderly
confidential for masculine perusal is Charm : Margery
Wilson (Angus and Robertson ; 65.). It translates into
a feminine idiom the go-getter precepts of Dale Car-
negie. It has a cover that suggests a scent-bottle, and
inside it is full of such breathless enthusiasms as
Isn’t it lovely that within each of us there is the
same latent charm and ability we admire so much in
the world’s attractive and successful people?
Unlike Mr. Carnegie, who exercises a Scottish
caution and hedges a bit on his prescriptions, Margery
bursts forth every now and then with italicised aphor-
isms. For instance : Our influence anywhere is in
exact proportion to our charm. Just that and no
more. That seems to overlook the existence in history
of such people as Nero, Herod, Torquemada, Oliver
Cromwell and Boss Tweed, all very influential in
their own circles, but not hitherto credited with an
overweening desire to make themselves pleasant. But
let it pass, and get down to the copper tacks of the
art of being charming.
Gait is important. When walking you mustn’t
wobble from side to side like a ferry steamer in a
swell, but glide in a straight line, or rather float in
a luscious curve. To attain this art,
Put every movement of your exercise into a curve.
Walk about the room on tiptoe making large circles
with the arms. Think in curves, letting sharp, angular
thoughts give way to smoothness.
But the really big and tremendous secret of charm
is the art of listening—“the slightly forward leaning
of rapt attention and the little French trick of breath-
ing as though inhaling some delightful perfume.” This
breathing business has to be studied deeply. Aim for
A gentle, delicate, long breath that seems to reach
well up into the forepart of the head, as though the
wish were there to keep a current of that delightful
atmosphere passing over the sensitive membranes that
register its fragrance.
Tact has a lot to do with charm, and so has
etiquette. At a wedding etiquette dictates that our
conversation should “bear directly on the bridal
couple, romance and kindred subjects.” But what
shall we do if someone insists on talking about some-*
thing else? Say this:
“Mrs. Jones, I am very much interested in what
you* have just said. I should so like to hear all about
it. And so that I may not miss a single word, will you
come to my house on Tuesday afternoon, where we may
talk at length about it?” Then begin immediately to
talk about the subject in hand... .At funerals —talk to
no one. Recognise no one. Pay your respect silently
and leave. If you should by chance catch the eye
of someone who bows to you, just look away. You
have a right to assume that you did not see the bow, for
your mind is supposed to be filled with sadness and your
eyes might be blurred with the tears of sympathy.
So this charm business seems to call for equal
parts of heroism and dishonesty. Or does it? Because
in one of her earlier chapters Margery lays it down
that “Sincerity is the only sure foundation of lasting
charm.”
Leonard Mann's New Novel.
Leonard Mann, in A Murder in Sydney (Cape;
Angus and Robertson; 65.), has a good yarn to tell
and something more. He deals with the case of a
girl, Barbara Hallam, who thought it possible that
her father, a prosperous chartered accountant, had
murdered her invalid mother. Her suspicion is
strengthened by the discovery that, at about the time
of her mother’s death, he had acquired a young mis-
tress, Chloe Morton, whom he now proposes to
marry. She finds the idea unbearably revolting. To
escape from the position which threatens her, she
contemplates a loveless marriage with a young
squatter, but this falls through after Hallam appears
in public with Chloe, whose reputation is widely
known.
On the day Hallam’s engagement is announced
at a gathering of relations Barbara overhears Chloe’s
acceptance of Hallam’s proposal that she spend a
night at the Hallam home. Barbara goes to Chloe’s
flat with the idea of dissuading her. Heated words
occur on the subject of the forthcoming marriage.
Chloe speaks contemptuously of Mrs. Hallam’s
memory, and Barbara strikes her down with a heavy
brass vase, killing her.
Hallam is suspected of the murder, and his daugh-
ter’s feelings have reached such a pitch that she
delights in the thought of his peril. She half persuades
herself that the situation is a planned revenge by her
mother, acting through her. Hallam’s troubles gather
thickly. Chloe’s death is a heavy blow ; then there
are the anxieties of his position, the verdict of popular
opinion, the decline of his business and his partner’s
foreshadowed desertion. He breaks down one night
in front of Barbara, and she sees him for the first
time in a pitiable light.
In the meantime suspicion has fallen on her also.
She contemplates suicide, but that would be, at least
in the eyes of the world, another implied accusation
of her father.
On the advice and with the moral support of Mat
Dyas, a rough diamond who has concealed love for
her under the appearance of friendship, and whose
love is eventually returned, she confesses. She is
tried, and, despite a carefully- and shrewdly-framed
defence, is convicted of manslaughter and sentenced
to seven years’ imprisonment.
Deeply involved on the emotional side —in addi-
tion to Mat Dyas—is Hugh Stair, Chloe’s lover before
Frederick Hallam, with his money and promise of
social position, enticed her away. He is completely
crushed, and the reader is left to suppose that he
commits suicide, but before he goes he has a peculiar
and subtle revenge on Hallam. There is a painting
of Chloe in the nude by Sebastian Kent, for whom
she posed and with whom she had intimate relations
while waiting to marry Hallam. Hallam, hearing of
the picture, bought it, not to exhibit it, but to conceal
it, so that his shame would not be exposed. Stair
steals it and wills it to the National Art Gallery.
Basically, A Murder in Sydney is just another
crime story. Common curiosity is depended on as it is
in any novel of mystery or adventure. Did Hallam
murder his wife? Will he be hanged for it? And,
later, will the girl be convicted or acquitted?—these are
the three speculative links that hold the book together.
Had Mann been out to succeed on a purely artistic
plane of effort he would have given these points in
at the start, and a book of rather different texture
would logically have resulted. He has not done this,
but he has brought his proved gifts to bear on the
tale as he has chosen to tell it.
Its strength is in the firm drawing of the char-
acters, the exact imaginative realisation of their sepa-
rate relation to the crime and through it to each
other, and the writer’s estimate of the relationship
of the crime and its attendant circumstances to the
social order as a whole. In such matters reason and
insight preside over the telling, and these qualities
seem to come to a peak of expression in the trial
scene, where we see the Judge, Crown Prosecutor and
counsel for the defence both as individuals and as
social functionaries. A Murder in Sydney will prob-
ably be widely read. It deserves to be. It is out-
standing of its kind.
Norwegian Emigrant Boy.
O. E. Rolvaag has established himself as the
prophet of the Norwegian emigrant. In Giants of
the Earth, Pure Gold and Their Fathers’ Gods he has
dealt faithfully with various aspects of their life in
America, mostly in the struggle with alien soil. Now,
in The Boat of Longing (A. L. Burt; Angus and
Robertson ; 7s. 6d.), he tells of the struggles, home-
sickness, disillusions of a boy who goes to the U.S.A.
in the early part of this century buoyed up with
fantastic hopes of easy riches and easy fulfilment of
his vague ambitions, only to be dissolved and lost in
the great mass of cheap foreign labor on which the
wealth of the States was being built in those prosper-
ous years.
Nils is the only son of a fisherman, Jo-by-the-
Sea, and his wife, Mother Ann, a quiet, remote boy
with a gift for music. When his young love for a
foreign girl rescued from the sea is frustrated, he
grows restless and melancholy. In this mood he hears
splendid fairy tales about America. He thinks that
he will go there and become a great violinist —by
magic. His mother is broken-hearted, but only in
the vaguest terms can he explain his mood to her.
Nor do I quite know how to say it so you will
understand. But life is not in this place—not for me—
no, not the whole of it . . . not yet at least . . . that’s
why I must go out after it. For it is that which one
must find.
Equipped with dreams alone, he sails away. At
first he is dazzled and delighted by the splendors of
Minneapolis. He is rich, he earns nine dollars a week
cleaning offices, he thinks that everyone he sees is
well-dressed, rich and happy. Then he begins to
discover the ugliness and exploitation.
He weaves a romance about a girl, and finds she
is a prostitute. A middle-aged woman befriends him,
but she is killed in a street accident, leaving him her
dead lover’s violin. He sees another Norwegian boy,
committed to his care by his father, degenerating in
city life, and cannot save him. All these things are
blows upon the heart. The discovery that all is not
gold that glisters is too much for his idealistic tem-
perament. He can no longer bring himself to write
home. He drifts from one job into another, sad and
puzzled, and that is the last we hear of him.
At home his parents cannot bear their anxiety.
At last his father takes his savings and goes to America
to find him, but he is turned back at Ellis Island;
he is old, he has too little money, and there is no one
to take responsibility for him. He returns in a state
of false exaltation, built on the idle story of another
passenger who remembers “a fair young man” in
Minneapolis ; but one night he takes his boat and
rows far out to sea, to be heard of no more. The
“Boat of Longing” is a phantom ship seen by Nord-
land people in moments of great emotion or in the
hour of death. It symbolises also the longing for
life and still more life that drives the emigrant forth
to founder all too often in a strange world.
The story is a sombre one, with a streak of
northern mysticism woven into its pattern. This
mysticism does not ring true —although it is an essen-
tial part of the book’s design. It has the air of being
imported for effect, and this weakens the book im-
measurably. The narration is in the simple style
characteristic of the Norwegian, but that, too, is
hollow. Some of the sophistication of the New World
has crept in and clouded that clarity which is the
mark of true simplicity. The effect is faintly con-
descending and unreal, as when sophisticated people
put on smocks arid take up folk dancing. Even
simplicity can be an artifice. For this reason The
Boat of Longing is not as moving as its theme should
make it. It boils down to the story, perennially
beloved of moralists, of the good boy in the bad
world.
Reviewed Briefly.
FICTION . . .
My Tattered Loving: George R. Preedy (Herbert
Jenkins ; 7s. 6d.). Reign of James I. Love, scandals
and political plotting in a flamboyant and corrupt
period. The writer takes for his central feature a con-
spiracy that shocked even the cynic London of the
day. A good lightweight.
Retreat from Love: Maysie Grieg (Hodder and
Stoughton ; 7s. 6d.). Ann, with fiance in tow, returns
from South Africa to find the parental home in ruins.
Papa is in love with a dress-designer and mamma
is consoling herself with a male beauty specialist.
Ann gets a job in the dress-designer’s establishment,
unmasks her and finally persuades her parents to taste
in their reunion the; buttering of romance on the
bread of respectability.
The Loves of Goya: Marion Chapman (Herbert
Jenkins; Angus and Robertson; 7s. 6d.). Serious
biographers have imagined Goya' studying in Rome
during those periods when he disappeared from human
ken. Miss Chapman has other explanations to offer.
Absence of authentic knowledge to the contrary gives
scope to her imagination and Goya’s character the
color of possibility to her tale. Style, floridly romantic.
Death at the Club : Miles Burton (The Crime
Club). The secretary of the Witchcraft Club, whose
distinguished members meet to indulge their academic
interests in necromancy and allied subjects, is dis-
covered murdered in a room adjoining the club prem-
ises. The difficulties of the sleuths are increased by
the Assistant-Commissioner of Police being one of the
club members and suspects. A yarn of average merit.
The Diva’s Emeralds : Victor MacClure (Harrap ;
7s. 6d.). A famous singer goes to the theatre wearing
a necklace of emeralds “almost beyond price” and
returns to her hotel without them. Detective Archie
Burford recognises the tracks of an international gang
of jewel thieves. Excitement ends with the capture
of the culprits in the Riviera after pursuit across
Europe. There are some character work and fight
comedy for good measure.
The Admiralty Regrets. ... ; Reginald Campbell
(Cassell; 7s. 6d.). Heroic snotties aboard H.M.S.
Safeguard skylarking their way through the Great
War. The principal character stands up to his share
of battle hazards and longshore pleasures, but when
his ship is sunk in the Channel on her voyage home
discloses himself still a child at heart. He calls for
his mother. In subject and treatment reminiscent of
Kipling— at his best and at his worst.
Fly That Sips Treacle : James H. Mosey (Harrap ;
7s. 6d.). A young Englishman, flying his own ’plane
to Norway to visit a friend, crashes in the mountains
and is rescued by the members of an isolated family.
Love ensues with a tragic ending that does not appear
justified. The playboy vein of the book makes the
death of Anne at the last seem as inconsequent as
an accident at the end of a holiday.
The Flower Dancer : Edison Marshall (Hodder
and Stoughton ; Dymock’s; 7s. 6d.). Everyone has
a double. Young Hank Watson had just finished up
an engineering job in India and thought he was on
his way home to America, but he was mistaken for
someone who looked like him, and suddenly found
himself headed for Tibet with the will of the Dalai
Lama in his pack. When he at last turns for home
he takes with him Darzee, the lovely dancer of the
hills. Nicely written.
VERSE . . .
Don J. Ewan : Humbert Wolfe (Arthur Barker :
65.), is obviously and admittedly modelled on Byron’s
Don Juan. The hero wanders around the modern
world, making more or less cynical observations in
verse on everybody' and everything; even the metre
of the original is borrowed, and the author has some
of Byron’s aptitude for finding rhymes for the most
unpromising words. In this respect, however, he
sometimes goes beyond his master; Byron would
never have tried to rhyme “catastrophe” with “coffee."
Oh, Marjorie Ann and Spud are two neatly-
turned-out little paper-covered booklets written and
produced by Brian Vrepont, of Brisbane —price 3s.
6d. and 2s. respectively. The former is described as
being “for children and all child-lovers,” and Spud’s
sub-title is “Everybody’s Dawg.” They consist of
what are styled nursery rhymes, a few of them variants
on the old-time ones, but most striking out in a new
vein. The author takes a deal of liberty, not to say
license, with rhyme and metre, but he shows plenty
of vigor and ingenuity in his productions.
GENERAL ...
Westward Bound in the Schooner Yankee: Cap-
tain and Mrs. Irving Johnson (Robert Hale; 15s. net).
Pleasant illustrated account of a voyage one dreams
about —an 18 months’ trip round the world in a well-
found schooner with a crew that pays for the privilege,
visiting the islands of the Pacific, the East and West
Indies. One can read the book and dream all the
better for it.


No.l COMFORT
GARS
BUILT BY
HUDSON
m
m
m
i
*
mi
&#%#?#*****»*
•ffiRKWW
Ride in a 1937 Hudson or Terraplane, back or front seat, and
you’ll agree that the best of armchairs can’t beat these splendid
cars for sheer comfort. For the first time in any cars, long-leaf, velvety
springs have nothing to do but cushion your ride. Hudson’s
exclusive Radial Safety Control relieves springs of power and
braking strains, makes the car hug the road, while Tru-line Steering
(another exclusive Hudson feature) holds it on a steady course at
any speed and over any sort of surface. If comfort in motoring
means anything to you, you’ll want to try out Hudson or Terra-
plane—so come along—we have cars waiting for you.
Owner’s opinion
1 have f ke three n 48,000
costs of ey Vxave done ’ Petrol con-
-1 factory U V-Upr figure on , * the origin* l
[ a mucfi lnS , remained a -which is
consumption m ßes dec.,-
I figure, i- e *- h engine n va l v es and
I excellent. . times, , i Tyres last
k bonded TUn touched- Jj o , the
I ring. h?« X’ 30,000 , b „Ue linings,
■ »PPt»* ,m ’;f, y os i„g the ””B>»n brske! relined
■ cars are still had the ear -boxes,
| and the third hasj C \ u tches, S haV e
I »“ 50,000 -^ nllals ,
U universals, an d are all rep \aced on
■ given notr«ubl cost u parts \ IQ/l oh
■ dition. Tota xcludm g cD6 t
■ the three car QOO miles---*® penny-
■ >•" (Original
No. 1 MEANS MO3E CAR
FOR YOUR MONEY
Hudson and Terraplane are No. 1 CARS in
everything that counts as good value for
money. LONGER WHEELBASES ... 117
inches in Terraplane, 122 and 129 inches in
Hudson. GREATER POWER ... 98 h.p. in
Terraplane, 101 and 122 h.p. in Hudson.
MORE ROOM ... 55 inches width (lots
of room for three) in front seat. REAL
SAFETY... bodies all of steel with steel roof
and floor; exclusive Duo-automatic Hydraulic
Brakes; new Double-drop “2-X” Frame with
lower centre of gravity. ASTOUNDING
ECONOMY . . . Terraplane up to 24 m.p.g.,
Hudson 20 m.p.g. and over in Australian tests,
without special timing and including severe
acceleration and climbing trials.
C. I 8. B.
HUDSONS „„d TERRAPLANES
N.S.W. DISTRIBUTORS:
DALGETY and COMPANY LIMITED
llncorporated in Englandl
136 PHILLIP STREET, SYDNEY
QUEENSLAND DISTRIBUTORS:
McINTOSH MOTORS PTY. LIMITED
Desmond Chambers
Adelaide Street, BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND
VICTORIAN DISTRIBUTORS:
NEAL'S MOTORS PTY. LTD.
140-144 Exhibition Street,
MELBOURNE, C.l.
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN DISTRIBUTORS:
MOTORS LIMITED
30-38 Flinders Street, ADELAIDE
(Also 145 Gawler Place, Adelaide)
WESTERN AUSTRALIAN DISTRIBUTORS:
MORTLOCK BROS. LTD.
914 Hay Street, PERTH
TASMANIAN DISTRIBUTORS:
H. C. HEATHORN & CO. LTD.
53-73 Bathurst Street,
HOBART
Brisbane Street,
LAUNCESTON


*
ROYAL
PURPLE
PARA
.','y : /.'V ->■; •-
H
.... ""
m
§
mwWi
rs[
V W -T**®
! 1
;I; I - Wf
11111 l
Mi
i: m
••’■ V
'• • ••M
S™®sllllil
WBm
H
■■
■
:■ I
HR
♦221.......... i
II
• ;
1
illillll
mU
m
H
mm
■; i MpR JI
MK 9 4
fcvfeuj ~y«S
n iflr lifciilffj
tiagtStoi
B ’ Siffl I
■
a
& »
! i|fl:
firm h
IH HK HURT . (fi m 3 11 I. if W
I * ■ ll' f
Alii . /yCKillHj
m
timm
1 Ml
I
■ m
11
mm
RHBt-. j sMMMMff BEaffiB»»»aaE
sg©J§§§W Sggg 'a y ‘■i-.v W%/ y&&
HUB UJS4Wt d i
1
■if
II
: Hi
■
m
1 1
M
/tfi^
.
■LiJ'
■MB
■
m
I ii iHS /■ n m wM Hfli
Further View of One of the Huge Storage Cellars .


BIG CHIEF BENITO V. THE MOSCOW MANEATER.
“Come, come, gentlemen; no unpleasantness, PLEASE!"


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Gordon & Gotch ( Aus .). Ltd.,
Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Saywell Buildings, 115 Lambton
Quay, Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London,
E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.')
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months', £1 10s.; 6 months, 15s. 6d.;
3 months, Bs.
Posted Free to any address Overseas (Foreign):
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 25.; 3
months, 11s.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji, New
Hebrides 'and other places within the British
Empire, 2d. per copy. United Kingdom via France
or America, 2d. per copy. To all other places, 4d.
DEFENCE IN THE PACIFIC.
If the Admiralty carries out its present intention of
transferring the Queen Elizabeth class of battleships
to Singapore, there* will for the first time in history
be a British battle-fleet in a locality from which it
could play an active part in the local defence of the
Commonwealth.
The five ships—Queen Elizabeth, Barham,
Malaya, Valiant and Warspite—are not new. Nor-
mally they would be due for scrapping. Their 75,000
h.p., while it ushered in a new era in engine-power
when they were completed round 1914-15, is regarded
in these days as insufficient for a 6000-ton cruiser.
But they have already been once reconditioned—
their masts and fighting tops were reorganised, their
armor strengthened, their eight 15in. and twelve 6in.
guns supplemented with anti-aircraft artillery, their
length and human complement increased.
A new overhaul has begun, and the first ship
to be completed is the Warspite. The job has cost
almost as much as it took to build her, and to all
intents and purposes the Warspite is a new ship. Her
old masts and bridges have been replaced by a new
single fortress bridge of the most modern type. Her
guns have been redistributed, except for the heavy
pieces, and reangled. Her aerial defences have been
made as strong as it is possible to make them.
The sending of these ships is not likely to be
sanctioned until vessels now on the stocks are nearer
completion. When they do come they will have to
be supported by at least a cruiser squadron of half
a dozen ships, an aircraft-carrier, four or five
destroyer flotillas, minesweepers and at least eight
submarines. Singapore will then become a naval
station comparable in ship strength with the major
stations of the Channel and the Mediterranean, and
capable of barring large-scale naval invasion of the
Commonwealth by any single Power.
The outlook for auxiliary mercantile marine
defence in the Pacific is even more encouraging.
When war broke out in 1914 Britain owned only
nine vessels which could make over 20 knots, and
the largest ship with refrigerated space was under
9000 tons. Only two big ships could claim battle-
ship speeds—the Aquitania (23 knots) and the
Mauretania (25 knots). The giant of the Europe-
Australia routes was the Euripides (15,500 tons),
which stood out in size and speed (15 knots) among
the ships which took away the first Anzacs. When
the Ceramic, built in 1913, brought her 18,480 tons
into harbor, she was the Australian shipping marvel
of the day.
Impressive as the progress of foreign shipping in
the Pacific has been, there are few foreign 20,000-
tonners in the Pacific trade. By next year, there
will be 14 ships of over 20,000 tons in the Aus-
tralian trade—mostly British. The speeds of at least
half of them are comparable with battleship speeds,
and every one is built with a view to con-
version as an auxiliary cruiser or troop-carrier.
In the following year there will be added a
Shaw-Savill liner trading via the Cape, a 26,500-
tonner with as much refrigerated space as was pos-
sessed by all long-distance refrigerated vessels in the
world before the last war. Another year will see
two more vessels of about the same size on the
Australia-Canada route, built under subsidy from
the interested Governments.
By 1940 the naval situation in the Pacific should
be satisfactory; but Australia is doing less than its
fair share. It has one modern 7000-ton cruiser.
Every other vessel it owns is obsolescent. The Aus-
tralian navy has not nearly the fighting power it had
in 1913. Its army, painfully recruited by the volun-
tary system, is not at present large enough to allow
of a division being maintained in the field. Its air
force is growing, but at the moment is probably
unequal to that of Siam. Its roads were not built
for defensive purposes. Its railways are a jumble
of gauges placed in positions which—as Chauvel arid
other authorities have pointed out —are highly vulner-
able. Coast defence guns for the whole Common-
wealth would be considered inadequate for a second-
rate European port.
Nearly four years ago the Defence Department
issued this announcement:
Guns and ammunition for the first stages of the
defences of the main ports are now being manufactured
by the Munitions Supply Board, and it is expected that
the first consignment of guns will be finished next year.
The first anti-aircraft gun was completed only the
other day, and the Minister has suddenly discovered
that there is a need for minesweepers, minelayers and
harbor booms. And because the gentleman feels that
it will be “a valuable experience” for a reconnais-
sance squadron “in the type of work which it will be
called on to perform in war,” the Albatross, which
can speed at a whole 20 knots—sometimes—and carry
nine seaplanes under very cramped conditions, is to
have the weed hauled off her. Canberra and Australia
are to be rearmored, though nothing can change their
towering hulls ; Brisbane, which is 21 years old—
there are only two cruisers in the British Navy as
old, and they are to be scrapped this year—is to be
replaced by something a bit more modern. Above
all, Adelaide, of the 1918 vintage, is to have £50,000
spent on converting her into an oil-burner so that
she may be “a valuable standby” while Australia and
Canberra are in dock.
The Japanese, already fighting the Chinese and
obviously ready for a war with Russia, if that war
comes, are rebuilding their navy. The Dutch are
strengthening the defences of their East Indies—their
new bases will range as far south as New Guinea,
where our only force consists of a few rifle-armed
native police. U.S.A. has based practically the whole
of its fleet, a large military force and the pick of its
aircraft on Honolulu. British expenditure on forti-
fications, aircraft and naval bases in the Indian and
Pacific Oceans will have reached £30,000,000 by
1940 at latest. The Afrikanders are fortifying
Robben Island and Simonstown, spending £10,000,000
on their principal port, “in case the Suez Canal is
blocked,” training many pilots and mechanics, using
only civic aircraft that can be converted into fighters
and bombers in a few hours, and building a 1400-mile
national highway from Cape Town to Zululand, partly
for the defence of their south-east coast. They always
had. a serviceable army, and they are improving that.
Six and thirty years ago the Afrikander Prime
Minister and some of his Ministers were fighting the
British. If these hard-headed fellows now consider it
good business and sound national policy to work in
with Britain, so should we. Australia is never likely
to be asked to send warships to the North Sea again,
but it may be fairly expected to equip itself with
surface and underwater craft, warplanes, tanks, artil-
lery, machine-guns, rifles, munitions and trained
men sufficient, in concert with other nations
of the British Commonwealth, to defend this con-
tinent and those other nations, especially Maoriland,
if they are attacked and Australia is spared. And
no feather-headed politicians with crazy ideas about
Fascism being the only enemy (there isn’t enough in
Australia to fill a fire-bucket) should be permitted to
stand in the way of its getting these requirements in
the shortest possible time.
The Muscovite Malady.
Philip Gibbs’s Ordeal in England is a good book
for Australians to have about when they are reading
foreign “news.” An old Liberal journalist, Gibbs
seems to have little use for the new Liberal and Labor
journalism, as represented by the “News-Chronicle”
and the “Daily Herald,” and he suggests that a lot of
British writing men and some professors (Haldane,
the gas man, seems to be the worst case) have got
Russia on the brain. He dined with “15 youngish
men, nearly all of them writers of books, not without
fame.”
Someone began talking about Russia, and, looking
round the table, I saw the eyes of these youngish intel-
lectuals go soft, with that peculiar light that comes
with inward ecstasy. Russia!
This Russian infection, like the Russian influenza
of the ’nineties, has gone round the world, and Aus-
tralia has not escaped. The thing is found in different
forms, and one may have it without being aware of
the fact; in these cases the patient feels a burning
desire to have a go at Germany, Italy or Japan, or
all three.
Even the Sydney “Morning Herald” is subject
to mild attacks. In one “Granny” went into ecstasies
over “the Soviet’s great gift to an expanding world,”
the occasion being an aeroplane performance much
less remarkable than the achievements, with com-
paratively primitive machines, of our own Kingsford
Smith and Hinkler; in another, reviewing a Russian
professor’s book on Napoleon, she blithered that the
Emperor’s “indifference to human welfare no Russian
and no human being can forgive.” This when the
old girl has to announce every few days that the
sensitive souls at the head of affairs in Russia have
bumped off another party of their old revolutionary
associates! They are even bumping off cooks and
market gardeners.
The “new” “Daily Telegraph” has had worse
seizures.. It also has had to admit that the mild Stalin
is directing what it delicately refers to as “an endless
purge” of his old pals. And on August 12 it mentioned
that “since Stalin’s purge began late last May no section
of the Russians has fallen so often and so fatally
under suspicion as employees of the eastern Soviet
railway system.”
The latest executions bring the number of railway
employees shot since last June to more than 430.
But this information was conveyed in a two-inch par.
with a one line heading. In the same issue there was a
four-column special in which Tukachevsky (dec.),
Trotsky (“now a hated exile”) and Voroshilov
(“wounded by an assassin’s bullet”) were credited with
having created “the greatest fighting machine history
has known —the Russian Red Army.”
All the vast industrial and technical skill of the
U.S.S.R. has been mobilised. Foreign observers watching
the Red Army at its Grand Manoeuvres have been
amazed at the result... .The ultimate war strength of
the Red Army is estimated at 8,000,000 men. To-day the
Soviet Union has at least 6000 modern tanks, 150,000
motor tractors and 100,000 or more motor vehicles
The number of aircraft now exceeds 6000, of which
1500 are bombers
The Red soldier is a splendidly organised man. The
Red officers who have risen from the ranks are capable
and competent, with none of that aggressive pride which
is the hall-mark of militarists in many other countries.
It was of this mighty force that Stalin was think-
ing when he cried in December, 1934, “Those who try
to attack our country will receive a stunning rebuff to
teach them not to poke their pig’s snout into the Soviet
garden.”
To what pig’s snout was Stalin referring? He was
not explicit, but perhaps in Berlin and Tokio Aryan
and honorable ears burned.
Sydney “Sun” is likewise subject to intermittent
attacks, on Sundays especially. When taken that
way, it can be confidently expected to reveal
that the U.S.S.R. has the most wonderful bathy-
sphere in the world, and the most marvellous
system of education in the world, and the greatest
of all gold outputs. To the last entrancing theme it
devoted upwards of a page, with illustrations,
on September 5, mentioning among other things that
a lot of the Soviet gold came from the Lena field
in Siberia:
The Lena field is well known to the outside world as
the scene of the massacre of a number of strikers in
1912, and later as the subject of protracted negotia-
tions between the Soviet Government and British mining
interests, who found it impossible to continue working
their concessions.
There is no connection between the alleged “mas-
sacre of a number of strikers” and the stoppage of
mining operations.. According to the Mining Year-Book,
they ceased “owing to the attitude of the Soviet
Government.” Before the war Lena Goldfields, Ltd.,
paid 30 per cent, and 20 per cent, dividends. Its
dispute with the Soviet Government was referred to
a special Arbitration Court, which awarded the com-
pany £12,965,000 sterling, with interest at 12 per cent,
from the date of award to date of final settlement.
There being no chance of getting anything like that
from the robber Government of “the greatest gold-
producing country in the world,” nor any certainty
of getting anything at all, the company agreed to take
£3,000,000, payable £50,000 in cash and £2,950,000 in
non-interest-bearing 20-year Soviet notes. Notes have
been redeemed in annual instalments of British cur-
rency, but 19s. 2|d. per share has been written off the
ordinary shares of £1 each (4,185,000), and the “latest
price” of £1 shares was given as 9d.
In the same issue Mr. F. E. Baume, described
in Who’s Who as Frederic Ehrenfried Baume, J.P.,
reported a cheery conversation with Eddie Cantor
in New York:
We lunched with Sydney Smolsky, one of the finest
columnists in America. Cantor’s main subject is
Fascism. “Is it in Australia?” he asked. “Fight it, kill
it: it is the end of all things.”
There is no Fascism in Australia worth mention-
ing, but there is Communism. Communism can’t be
one of Mr. Cantor’s aversions. In a previous issue Mr.
Frederic Ehrenfried Baume, J.P., chronicled a conver-
sation with Trotsky, who, having been connected in
some way with one of the armed mobs that were
tearing round Russia in 1919-1920 (when one armed
mob they were dreadfully licked by the Germans),
was hailed by a host of non-combatant Socialist
writers as “the greatest military organiser of the age.”
Through Mr. Baume Trotsky advised Australia to
hurl itself into the war against “the Japanese plun-
derers” in China, asserting that the independence of
Australia and Maoriland was being decided in
Shanghai.
Unless Mr. Baume has been belied, he gave some
advice on his own account —to the British Empire.
The following appeared in the Hobart “Mercury” on
September 4:
Windsor (Ontario), Sept. 2.
Mr. F. E. Baume, editor-in-chief of the Sydney
“Sunday Sun,” stated in an interview that the British
Empire was the only decent thing left in the world.
Britain should step on Japan and put her in her place.
No doubt Stalin, as well as Trotsky, would love
to see the British Empire step on Japan. It seems
improbable, however, that Mr. Frederic Ehrenfried
Baume, J.P., would assist in the stepping. He was
too young for the last war, and will presumably be
too old for the next.
The “Worker” doesn’t share Mr. Baume’s favor-
able opinion of the British Empire. As for the British
Government, it is “surreptitiously on the side of the
two big Fascist bullies and militaristic Japan.” Why?
Because it is “capitalist” root and branch, and all
capitalists “fear the object-lesson in successful social-
ism presented by the great Soviet Republic.”
“The Government overseas” is so “Fascist-minded
and so bitterly anti-socialist” that it won’t fight “the
Fascist Powers” to oblige “the great Soviet Republic.”
Hence “the compliant imperialism of the Lyons
Government is exposing this country to terrible peril.”
See what is taking place in Spain, “where Fascist Ger-
many and Italy, using the traitor Franco as their tool,
have launched a campaign of murder and incendiar-
ism vast hordes of uniformed beasts, slaying and
burning wherever they go.” And as bad or worse is
happening in China. But the “Worker” has a union-
secretary contributor who knows what Australia ought
to do in that case—clap an embargo immediately
“on all exports to Japan” and all imports from that
country. ,
Our fathers took whisky for the Russian influ-
enza, and found it as good a remedy as any other.
It is difficult to know what to prescribe for the present
Russian infection, but it should be something that
would clear the mind of cant.


PLAIN ENGLISH,
Litvinov's "Diplomacy."
Faith in international conferences on foreign affairs
seems to be confined nowadays to Mr. Anthony Eden ;
but other Governments are willing to humor him
because of their respect for British good faith. With
the best intentions in the world his Government
invited a lot of other Governments to send delegates
to Nyon, Switzerland, to discuss the sinkings of
merchantmen and the attacks on warships in the Medi-
terranean and neighboring seas. Acceptances were
received and others were on the way when Moscow
threw a spanner into the works by charging Italy
in a Note with having sunk Russian vessels.
Then the Italians said they wouldn’t be repre-
sented at the conference, and the Germans said they
wouldn’t be represented. Both, however, intimated
that they were ready to discuss what might be dis-
cussed at the conference when the Non-intervention
Committee met again. The conference was held, and
out of it came a plan for a destroyer patrol.
The first Russian Note was presented after the
last issue of The Bulletin was printed. The “charges”
being straightway denied, another Note, reiterating
them, came along. Indeed, Moscow broke out in a
rash of Notes, two, presented to the British and
French Ambassadors at the Red capital, demanding
a conference invitation for the Red Valencia Govern-
ment and “requesting recognition of the intolerable-
ness of the Italian attacks.”
In the first Note it was alleged that “the Soviet
has indubitable proof of the attacks made on Soviet
merchantmen by Italian submarines,” and mentioned
the Timiryazev. In “Populaire,” which is owned by
M. Blum, it was asserted that “we are even in a
position to state that the submarines concerned were
Italian craft of the Archimede type.” But the “News-
Chronicle” had already come out with “a photograph
of an Italian destroyer with the identification mark
‘T.B.,’ which the crew of the Timiryazev say sank
her.” Evidently the crew of the Timiryazev are
clumsy liars, and their clumsiness is rather surprising,
since lying is part of the Soviet system.
But the clumsiness of these mariners is no clum-
sier than Soviet diplomacy as exhibited in this case.
Even “Populaire” had to admit that “the Soviet Note
was inopportune,” and it profoundly embarrassed the
French. Since they allied themselves with the Reds
the French have had nothing but trouble and loss of
prestige in quarters where their supremacy was once
unchallenged. However, the exhibition which the
Reds have made of themselves has strengthened the
position of the part of the nation that has never had
any use for the Russian alliance and increased the
determination of the part of the British nation—much
the greater part —which is not going to be bullied or
bluffed into fighting for Russians or Red Spaniards ;
no, not for all the doctrinaires and liars in creation.
In Legislator Land.
The expiring Commonwealth Parliament will be
remembered for the long rests it has taken from its
labors, and for the way those labors have been
scamped because of its perverted notion of the value
of time.
It gave itself a long rest on December 11, 1936,
adjourning to “a date to be fixed by proclamation.”
There was a blank until June 17, when a new session
opened. In the Governor-General’s speech emphasis
was laid on the fact that it was impossible to do any
real legislative work because the Prime Minister, the.
Minister for Defence and the Treasurer had not
returned from the Coronation and the Imperial Con-
ference. Parliament, indeed, would not have met at
all if supply had not been needed.
July saw members turn their backs on Canberra
till it was time to welcome the returned wanderers.
On August 24 the sittings were resumed. After the
pilgrims had taken a couple of days to give an account
of themselves —virtually everything they had to say
had been published already—the Representatives met
on August 27 to hear Mr. Casey bring down his
Budget, adjourning, after two hours and a half, for
four days’ holiday.
Meetings were held on August 31, September 1
and September 2. There was another recess till Sep-
tember 7. By this time, another supply bill was on
the tapis, and members were beginning to show signs
of exhaustion. For example, when it was decided
that there should be no luncheon adjournment:—•
The decision meant little to most members. They just
left. ,
Afterwards the debate on supply rolled on. It
kept rolling along its electioneering course until two
o’clock in the morning, when it became evident that
the Labor party intended to keep the House sitting.
Senators, who had been waiting to pass the supply
bill, went home in a body. Government members
ended the debate by walking out and leaving the
House without a quorum.
When the House reassembled it was noted by
the press that members had become “restless.” The
question with them was “When will the House rise?”
Though sittings were then expected to close on Sep-
tember 9, there was an “extraordinary exodus of
members of all parties.”
Then the wandering Mr. Lyons announced that
the House would continue to sit for two days of the
following week, and that, not one important bill having
been passed, it was proposed to push 20 measures
through within 48 hours. This was expected to lead
to “stormy times,” and well it might.
Statute of Westminster, long-term mortgage bank
and Newnes shale were among the things to be
“considered” or shelved. The main thing was not that
these important proposals should be thoroughly
debated, but that members should get to their electo-
rates and begin electioneering as early as possible.
At the week-end a confused House had, at the Prime
Minister’s instance, overruled the Speaker touching
the ejection of a muckraking Labor member, and
argument was raging concerning the preservation of
“privilege.”
Australia needs only one Parliament, but that
Parliament must have new men, new measures, new
methods of business and new manners. The manners
of some of the N.S.W. members are appalling.
Victoria's "Crisis."
Victoria’s Dunstan Government is giving a passable
imitation of being happy about going to the country
six months before there was any need, but it is not
really easy in its mind. Neither is the U.A.P., with
which the Dunstan party was allied before the Dun-
stan party threw it over and formed an alliance with
Labor. Labor is fairly comfortable when it considers
the difficulties of the “capitalist” parties, but even
Labor has troubles of its own.
The behind-the-scenes negotiations which resulted
in U.A.P. Premier Argyle’s deputy becoming Cocky
Premier Dunstan left rural and labor interests as
much in antipathy as before the shuffle. The Dunstan
Government had to pay for Labor support with legis-
lative compromises. Part of the price was “reform”
of the Leg. Council. “Reform” is itself a compromise—
Labor doesn’t want any sort of Leg. Council.
The “Reform” Bill came out of the Dunstan hat
last session. Providing for the establishment of new
machinery for settling deadlocks, it proposed to
abolish plural voting and to reduce from £lOOO to
£5OO the property qualification for membership of the
Upper House. Passed by the Assembly, it was knocked
back by the Council.
Half the Council went to a lethargic June
election, and the neutral result was hailed by Dunstan
interests as a “mandate for ‘reform.’ ” So back came
the “Reform” Bill, which was again approved by
the Assembly, but failed of the necessary majority in
the Council.
“Reform” was never a C.P. policy point, but Mr.
Dunstan saw in an immediate dissolution of the Assem-
bly and a rush election a possible way out of his diffi-
culties and those of his party, associated as it is with
Labor in State politics and with the U.A.P. in Com-
monwealth politics. So, through the demands of
political expediency, an unimportant proposal for the
alteration of one House by another is turned into an
“issue” which, the people are told, amounts to a
“crisis.” The people vote the election a nuisance, and
their sentiments are “a plague on both your Houses!”
In Cold Blood.
Many Australians are stung for taxes on income they
have never received. No section is more outrageously
victimised than the section which, living or sojourning
in N. S. Wales, draws income from Victoria.
This income is chiefly derived from property, and
as such is taxed by the Commonwealth and by Vic-
toria. The Commonwealth tax begins at 7.2 d. in the
£, and rises to 6s. 9d. in the £ on anything over £3700.
The Victorian tax is Is. in the £ up to £5OO of taxable
income (there is an exemption of £5O, “disappearing
at' £100”); where income exceeds that amount, Is. 2d.
in the £ on the first £5OO, Is. 4d. on the next £5OO,
Is. 6d. on the next and Is. Bd. on any balance ; plus
10 per cent, to 25 per cent, on incomes exceeding
£800; plus 74- per cent, on all incomes, and plus a
special tax of“6s. to 12s. 6d. in the £lOO, beginning at
£105; the 12s. 6d. is payable “over £2500.”
It is all very complicated, but Australian income
taxes are complex as well as extortionate. In Vic-
toria, though in no other country, property income
rates are double personal income rates, the idea being
apparently to punish thrifty old persons for being
thrifty and old.
Unemployed-relief taxation, so called because the
unemployed see very little of the proceeds, is addi-
tional. By a “reciprocal arrangement,” arrived at in
flat defiance of the spirit of the Commonwealth Con-
stitution, N. S. Wales residents have to pay N. S.
Wales “relief” tax on income from Victoria and vice
versa. The arrangement falls far more heavily on
N. S. Wales than Victorian residents, for the Victorian
Government, while making ordinary income tax high,
has kept relief tax comparatively low, and announced
a 20 per cent, reduction last month.
A comparison is appended, it being understood
that the income mentioned has, in nearly every case,
been taxed by the Commonwealth and by the State (it
should also be understood that in England personal
income up to £3OO and property income up to £250
is not taxed at all):
Vic. Tax,' Vic. Tax, N.S.W. Tax,
Income. 1936-37. 1937-38. 1936-37.
£l5O £1 10 10 £l4 8 £2 18 4
200 2 1 2 1 12 11 5 0 0
250 3 4 4 2 11 6 7 10 0
300 3 17 3 3 1 10 10 0 0
350 4 12 2 3 13 9 12 1 8
400 5 7 8 4 6 2 14 3 4
450 657 506 16 50
500 7 4 2 5 15 4 18 6 8
550 841 6113 20 84
600 9 4 6 7 7 7 22 10 0
700 11 8 8 92 11 26 13 4
800 13 16 8 11 1 4 30 16 8
900 16 8 6 13 2 10 35 0 0
1000 19 5 10 15 8 39 3 4
This N. S. Wales impost is a tax on gross income.
It thus falls with special severity on people whose
means are small, and they are paying a dispropor-
tionate share of the total yield, which is nearly double
what the Government is getting from its “ordinary”
income tax. The Commonwealth Government for-
bears to tax State taxes actually paid, but if £lO,
£5O, £lOO or any other amount has been taken from
the ’ Victorian income of a person subject to N. S.
Wales “relief” tax, N. S. Wales taxes it.
111-gotten gains seldom prosper. Sydney used to
be the abiding "place of many retired Victorians draw-
ing income from property. It doesn’t get many of
them now. They object to being skinned by the
Sydney Government.
Fortunate South Africa.
Australians do not need to be told that South Africa
breeds fine young men who play wonderfully
good football ; but it has other claims on their atten-
tion. A Union M.P., visiting Maoriland to see the
matches with the All-Blacks, has been saying things
which inspire admiration and no little envy.
Called upon ;in very trying circumstances to
choose between unifying and federating the old
British colonies and the former Boer republics, the
Afrikanders chose union ; and events have abundantly
proved that they chose wisely. They have one Parlia-
ment with supreme powers in national matters, and
national matters are so broadly construed that con-
trol of harbors and railways is among them.
There is no intermittent warfare between national
and provincial authorities, as there is in Australia,
nor can any doubt arise as to which is the repository
of powers which have to be invoked in a crisis. The
duties of the four provincial councils are expressly
assigned to them and their taxation powers expressly
limited. Nor have the inhabitants of the provinces
to support a lot of mock Courts and hordes of poli-
ticians. There are four Administrators (appointed
by the Governor-General and paid £9OOO p.a. alto-
gether) and 168 provincial councillors, and all provin-
cial council ordinances may be vetoed by the
Governor-General-in-Council. Neither are fences
of border regulations set up to protect insolvent pro-
vincial railway systems, as is the case in Australia.
The Union Government controls all the railways and,
without strangling other forms of transport, contrives
to make them pay. According to Mr. O. R. Nel,
the M.P. mentioned, they showed a profit of
£2,000,000 last year.
South Africa has liquidated all its war debt, and
in 10 years has reduced its national debt by
£17,000,000, It has a regular annual surplus and a
favorable balance of trade. Of course, its prosperity
is due principally to the rise in the price of gold, which
has enabled low-grade ores to be worked to such
purpose that production has increased to £74,000,000
sterling per annum, and enabled the Union to take,
roughly, half the “surplus” profits for national
purposes by taxing the premium. But the country
owes much to its system of government, which is
simple, direct and efficient, and which doesn’t admit
of a large part of the national income being grabbed
to maintain the fiction that State imitations of
the British Court (six), the House of Commons (six),
the House of Lords (five) and the hordes of officials
who minister to their absurd pomp are necessary.
Transport "Co-ordination" in M.L.
Transport “co-ordination” on the lines favored by
Australian Governments looks like breeding nothing
more than public discontent in Maoriland. A Savage
Government departmental spokesman has warned
Maorilanders that within a year all goods-carrymg
services between cities and towns will be Government-
owned and -operated.
If this is to benefit railway revenues, road services
will have to be cut to a minimum, and then there will
be real squealing. Monopoly services, whatever
their good intentions, have a disappointing habit of
resting on their performance records and raising costs.
These dangers are doubled when they are Govern-
ment-owned.
What will probably happen in Maoriland, as it
did in Victoria when the Riverina hauliers were regu-
lated off the roads, is that more farmers and private
firms will get their own trucks. According to the
N.Z. Road Transport Alliance, 14,000 farmers and
21,000 other operators already shift their goods by
private trucks. Any Government interference here
would mean political suicide for the party in power.
One of the Milk Boards.
It hangs out in Melbourne. It fixes the producers’
price, cancels the licenses of dairymen pronounced
“uneconomic distributors,” looks into quality and
advertises; but lacks power to fix retail prices.
The authority it has and the power it lacks
have both landed the board in trouble. The first
bunch of dairymen whose licenses it cancelled were
small men. A year ago it announced that “general
adoption of a reasonable economic standard for
retail delivery rounds of from 175 to 200 quarts a
cart would result in a general substantial reduc-
tion of delivery costs.” But rubbing out dairymen with
smaller quartages has yet to benefit the general con-
sumer.
In actual fact, retail prices in most suburbs are
rising. This is out of the board’s direct control, but
retail dairymen, who say they contribute about £25,000
a year in levies, maintain that the old rate was too
low to meet costs. As well as the levies, .they have
had to find another £300,000 a year from their cus-
tomers to pay the increased farmers’ price.
As for quality, Dr. J. Dale, the City Health
Officer, says milk with a “high count of organisms,
indicating serious faults in production or distribution,”
is still supplied. Dr. Cecil Hearman, lecturer in
preventive dentistry at Melbourne University, men-
tioned “filthy conditions” of distribution in a
recent broadcast address. He added that, if as much
attention were given to production and distribution
of milk as to production and distribution of beer-
sold without the help of any board—there would be
little cause for public complaint.
Now, of course, there is an agitation for “an inde-
pendent tribunal to inquire into the board’s adminis-
tration.”


Society
"AND ITS PRINTED WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Selma”: The “S. M. Herald” nodded
rather badly last week when a fashion
supplement printed a picture of a popular
tennis star and her mother, obviously
descending the gangway of a steamer,
and in travelling kit, with the caption
that they were about to enter the Town
Hall to hear a concert. Above them
two damsels, arrayed in evening glad
rags, were listed as having just landed
from the Mooltan. Still, these little
mistakes will happen. On one memor-
able occasion a now-defunct journal ex-
hibited a fuzzy-headed flapper on the
society page as a temperance reformer
and a supporter of good works, while a
bespectacled, elderly and forbidding old
lady figured hard by as a devotee of
tap-dancing and an inveterate racegoer.
Two aggrieved ladies were waiting to
see the editor when he arrived at his
usual hour, and the office had an
exhilarating morning.
* * * *
“T.”: In spite of hatters’ propaganda,
the no-hat habit grows—in Sydney, at all
events. Tram it from Circular Quay to
Anthony Horderns’, via Pitt-street or
George-street, at almost any hour of the
day and you will find at least one in eight
of the young fellows—say, between 16
and 35 —lidless. (At busy times the trams
crawl, so the Transport Department gives
you plenty of opportunities for such
studies). Obviously vanity has a lot to
do with this shedding of good Australian
rabbit-fur tiles. You rarely see a bald
head, and hundreds of votaries of the
New Freedom, or whatever it is, obvi-
ously spend a lot more than what cadies
would cost them on getting their hair
waved. And there is the outlay on spec-
tacles to come. Hatlessness, like daylight-
saving, may be all right in countries
where cloudy skies are the rule; I call it
a silly fashion in a sub-tropical climate.
* * * *
“Oxmead”: After reading some of
these jeremiads on the falling birthrate
J am forced to the conclusion that the
human race will become extinct in a
few centuries at most. It sets one specu-
lating whether prehistoric varieties of
near-men or beast-men may not have
petered out from precisely the same
cause. H. G. Wells, in one of his short
stories, refers to the “Chellean men,” a
race of giants who flourished 400,000
years ago or thereabouts. We know
little of them except what can be
gathered from some of their stone
implements, preserved in European
museums, four or five times as heavy
as any later-coming humans or near-
humans could wield. Then there
were the “Neanderthal men” of a mere
40,000 years back, grisly, gorilla-like
creatures, yet distinctly above the brute
creation of their period. They, too, had
their day and vanished, maybe as the
penalty for neglecting to keep their primi-
tive cradles full. My theory is that homo
sapiens will sooner or later go the same
way. After that—well, in a few hundred
thousand years another edition of
humanity (homo sapientior ?) may have
made its way upward from the more
intelligent and physically-powerful apes.
Who knows?
* * * *
“Jamwood”: The Americans are
coming back into the whaling trade ; as
I write an American factory-ship on her
way south is expected to call at Fre-
mantle for stores. It will mean the re-
newal of an old association ; 70 to 100
years ago the American whaler was a fre-
quent circumstances on the South West-
ralian coast. Sometimes they came for
convicts as well as whales, commissioned
by Irish in the U.S.A. to rescue political
prisoners. Their most famous prize was
Boyle O’Reilly, who made something of
a name for himself in American letters
as minor poet and editor of the Boston
“Pilot.” O’Reilly wrote a novel with a
Westralian setting, Moondyne Joe, and
verses which Douglas Sladen reprinted in
“Swing from the ’ ips, Joe —Vs Watchin us”
his Australian anthology. His lines on
the dukite snake were beefed out at many
a Swan River “vocal and elocutionary
competition” along with “Dixie” and
“Maryland, My Maryland”—for, curi-
ously enough, Civil War ditties had quite
a vogue in Westralia in the days of the
Six Families.
* * * *
“Salaam”: The Gyppo has a way all
his own of advertising his wares. In
Port Said recently an Arab hailed me
from his shop door: “Hey, Mrs. Princess
Marina, good perfume here—come, have
a sniff—nudding to pay.” I succumbed,
leaving my husband, with his dislike and
mistrust of Oriental sale methods, to
walk on. I was duly sprayed with gar-
denia perfume, when the Arab suddenly
discovered I was alone and, realising
that he might be missing a sale, rushed
wildly to the door and called loudly:
“Hey, Mr. Harry Lauder, come and sniff
your wife!”
* * H=
“Bo”: Touching the fighting qualities
of the Porkanbeans (B. 8/9/’37). Months
before the Bosch broke through, our
gallant allies were given a quiet sector
of the line to hold. Our mob were in
supports. That night the Germans,
well aware what troops were opposite
them, made a raid, helped themselves to
prisoners and departed. On the way back
across no-man’s-land a Verey light burst
into fitful illumination on a ridge a mile
away on their flank, and the prisoners
promptly bolted, beating Fritz to his
own front line by yards. The next day
the same sorry-looking bunch of
prisoners trooped back unescorted, the
leading one with a note, in excellent
English, pinned to his tunic. I have
forgotten the exact wording, but the gist
of it was that the German O.C. con-
sidered his limited supply of tucker could
be put to better use than feeding the most
useless lot of blankards on the Western
front. We had never previously credited
Fritz with much of a sense of humor,
but this sent him up in our estimation.
* * * *
“Jungor”: Westralian Labor Govern-
ments almost always find a shortage in
their ranks of material for Attorneys-
General and Agents-General. The first
difficulty can be met by appointing a
Minister of Justice as the Parliamentary
spokesman of the Crown Solicitor ; the
second invariably means that the Agent-
General who is in office whenever Labor
dispossesses its opponents of the Treasury
benches-is secure of a substantial exten-
sion of his term, a practice by which
H. P. Colebatch has been the latest to
profit. Only once since it first won to
office in 1904 has the party had a sup-
porter of its own regarded as competent
of filling the coveted London post; that
was William Angwin, the Cornishman.
On the other hand, an anti-Labor Gov-
ernment, when its turn comes, finds the
Mines portfolio the hardest to assign,
practically every goldfields seat being
held by the other side. There was one
such Mines Minister years ago who
frankly admitted on taking over the job
that he had never been underground for
any other purpose than sinking a well,
and some of his successors have doubt-
fully possessed even that qualification.
* * * *
“Dash Dotty”: Funny telegrams (B.
1/9/’37)? I recently saw a message the
sender of which had evidently realised
that a mere verbal agreement wasn’t en-
forceable at law. It read: “Please wire
written consent at once”!
“Blanc”: A telegram that still lingers
pleasantly in my memory was shown me
by a publican in a Riverina town on the
night of the first Tuesday in November.
It was from his wife in Melbourne, and
read: “Had great win to-day. Wire me
tenner, urgent.”
* * * *
“Billy See”: The Singapore boat tied
up to Fremantle wharf had just been
fumigated and piles of dead rats lay in
the scuppers waiting the garbage boat.
From the forecastle came half a dozen
shore-leave men, Chinks, in their usual
well-laundered blues. Passing a heap of
deceased rodents one of these, appar-
ently in the' real holiday spirit, snatched
up a rat and let fly at the rail-loungers
he was leaving behind. Immediately a
battle began, with rats as ammunition,
and raged along the deck and down the
gangway, at the foot of which hostili-
ties were temporarily suspended while
unsympathetic Customs men gave the
shore-leavers a “run-over.” Passed
0.K., they started along the wharf,
assailed at every yard with a shower of
rats, most of which they returned. A
fat cook on the boat had the last four
shots at his departing compatriots. It
all looked beautifully spontaneous, but
one hard-headed Customs man had never
seen Chinamen at play in this style
before. Hastening after the shore-leavers
he gave them another “once-over.” Yes,
you’ve guessed it; those last four rats,
with the exception of heads and tails,
were merely skins—each neatly sewn
around a couple of tins of opium.
* * * *
“Oi, Oi”: Another authentic legend
of that Brisbane pawnbroker Morwitch
(B. l/9/’37). When he retired—it was
said to lay his bones in Jerusalem —he
sold a Queen-street corner block for
£30,000. He refused a cheque and in-
sisted on cash. The buyer escorted him
to the Bank of N.S.W. and asked the
teller to convert the cheque into notes.
Here again Morwitch refused, and would
have gold or nothing. Nor was he satis-
fied with having the stuff weighed out,
but insisted on it being counted under
his eye. It was long after banking hours
before the count was completed and the
weary teller—who told me the story —
could balance his cash. The gold was re-
moved by Morwitch in his carriage and
pair, which had been waiting outside all
the time, and presumably shipped as
freight to the Holy Land.
“Oxmead”: I
always had a hazy
idea that the pat-
rons of “hot-dog”
stalls —where trade
is briskest in the
late p.m. and early
a.m. hours—were
mostly midnight
roisterers, but a
King’s Cross (Syd-
ney) vendor of
these delicacies has
thrown doubt on
it. Judges fre-
quently stop to
taste his wares, he
assured a reporter,
and a quite recent
A.D.C., now a
nobleman, had
been a regular cus-
tomer. It reminds
me of a municipal
council meeting I
once attended in a
Westralian gol d-
fields town. Busi-
ne s s was just
finishing when an
urgent note was
handed up to the
Mayor. It was to
the effect that “Old
Bill,” a pieman,
had just resumed
his winter business
outside the local
Guildhall and
would feel honored
if each and all of
the city fathers
would have “one
on him,” so to
speak. The invitation met with a
prompt response. It was an inspirit-
ing scene and possibly a tribute
to the excellence of “Old Bill’s”
provender—an entire deliberative body,
its labors over, along with a town clerk,
a health officer and a couple of reporters,
ranged two or three deep around the pie-
stall and busily engaged in consuming
large circular hunks of slightly greasy
pastry. Had only a flashlight photo-
grapher been there, “Old Bill” might
have scored a memorable ad.
* * * *
“Coot”: The Caulfield (Vic.) Council
recently out-Shylocked Shylock. A rate-
payer of 50 years’ standing who asked
indignantly why his name had been
struck off the municipal roll was calmly
informed by an official that £l6 6s. 3d.
had been due by him for rates, but he
had paid only £l6 6s.
* * * *
“7346”: The sum of £150,000 was
granted by the Ma State Government for
the 150th anniversary doings and, on the
hypothesis that N.S.W. did not consist
entirely of Sydney, 13 country centres
were invited to stage local junketings,
each of them being offered £5O for the
purpose from the. £150,000 purse. Dubbo
told the central committee to keep it, and
pulled out, and Wagga has since fol-
lowed suit. Surely 10 p.c. of the 150
thou, would not have been an excessive
inducement to‘the big towns to make a
showing.
DIVINE.
“The new spring' frocks are too, too divine.”
—Fashion writer in Sydney “D.T.”
Brothers (and sisters), let us spare a moment
From all the daily discord and the din
Of gloomy croakers’ pessimistic comment
About the plight our poor old world is in.
Between the far-off days of Homer’s Iliad
And the quaint croons of Ezra Pound —
and mine—
Ever were times when mortals willy-nilly had
Hard-hit to seek and find some balm in Gilead,
And now—the new spring dresses are divine.
What though they blow, Hitlers and Mussolinis
And Stalins, too, their trumpets overseas,
What though Shanghai of blood and fire the
scene is,
We’ve other things to think about than these.
Though Europe may be packed with storms
and stresses
From Cape St. Vincent to beyond the Rhine,
It’s just as certain that our vernal dresses
Would be O.K.’d by queens and grace prin-
cesses—
These new spring gowns are palpably divine.
Our decks are clearing for election clamor;
You’ll soon hear Lyons bleat and Curtin
bray
And stocks of lesser politicians yammer
Between Bananaland and W.A.
Still, there are lighter thoughts a young man’s
fancy
May turn to in the season so benign;
It’s safe to wager with no hesitancy
Clothes always hold a certain necromancy,
And these new spring creations are divine.
Brethren (and sistern), prithee cease repining
Because this grey old earth seems out of
joint.
The blackest cloud may have a silver lining
And here's what might be called a case in
point,
A gleam that comes the darkness to illumine
And mercifully temper storm with shine:
The frocks that dressmakers with rare acumen
Fit upon figures femininely human
Are, more than ever heretofore, divine.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Nordbo”: The Sino-Japanese trouble
has stirred up the Chinese population of
Cairns (N.Q.) considerably. One ancient
basket man at least is confident that his
country will prevail in the end. “Yapanee
no beatem my countly, no can do,” he
told me. “Fo’ hundled million of my
countlymen stop along Shina. Him dam
Yapanee no can makem bullets shootem
all.”
*** * ■
“Finn”: Any French visitors who may
come to Sydney next year will find little
satisfaction in viewing the scene of the
French landing at Botany Bay in 1788.
“Better run along, stupid, or the day'll be over fore y' can do your good
deed.”
The La Perouse monument —honored by
tablets from General Pau and the com-
manders of French warships—is flanked
with piles of rusty jam-tins. Of the four
Norfolk pines set to outline the enclosure
one has gone and another has long been
due for removal. One section of the
railing round Fr. Le Receveur’s grave
has rusted and fallen. This site will
some day be in the midst of building
blocks ; the time has come to remove
the tomb to the height beside the La
Perouse memorial.
* * * *
“Gamma”: Our office boss had 201 b.
of parcelled freight that had to be mailed
immediately. The office boy came back
with the parcel and a reminder from the
P.M.G.’s department that the package
limit is 51b. for that class of goods. The
boss then ordered it to be done up again
in four separate parcels of 51b. apiece,
but again the junior returned with the
cargo. “You can’t send more than 51b.
at one time,” he said. In the end, how-
“Take my hand, will you, sir? I should ’ave been on Watch an hour ago."
ever, the freight went side by side to
its destination on the same train. The
packages were posted in four separate
post offices.
* * * *
“Bert the Carpenter”: My mate and
I took a contract to erect a garage on
a vacant allotment; our first job was to
clear the ground of the litter of old
tins, boots and other rubbish which had
been accumulating for years. The place
being surrounded by a high iron fence,
we decided to drive our truck into the
lane at the back and as close to the fence
as possible. Putting a couple of sticks
in the fence-rails to mark the position of
the truck tray, we carried all the rubbish
to the fence and tossed it over. We had
almost finished when a policeman’s head
appeared over the fence with “What the
devil do you mean by making this mess
out here?” Puzzled, I clambered to the
fence-rail, and, looking over, found the
lane littered with our rubbish. Our truck
was parked around the corner in the
main street, where some humorists had
evidently pushed it. If any studio makes
use of this for a film comedy they might
send a few bob to make up for the hour
we spent in shovelling all the muck into
the truck.
* * * *
“Rokewurst”: German sausage made
of boiled meat is not smoked ; it’s the
raw-meat goods that get this treatment
(B. 1/9/’37). Rokewurst, as it is called,
is a mixture of pork and beef, seasoned
to taste. It may be boiled or fried, but
it is more often eaten as it comes from
the smokehouse. Experience is reauired
to turn out a first-class article. Too much
fat makes the wurst soft, oily and hard to
cure ; too much lean makes it too hard.
Properly made and cured it will keep for
months.
* # * *
“Alpha”: H. C. Reynolds’s letter in a
mustard-tin was not the only object un-
authorised by the architect to find its
way into Grafton Cathedral (B.
25/8/’37). A little girl, Bella Greenaway,
gave her doll to one of the workmen to
build into the wall of Christ Church,
where she worshipped for the next 53
years. One of the first things unearthed
in the recent extensions was the same
doll, in perfect condition. Mrs. J. Wil-
liams, as she is now, redonated her
treasure, which will be perpetually sealed
in a place of honor above the arch in the
western wall of the new building.
* * * *
“Ibn el Issar”: Brass-hat inspections
(B. 8/9/’37) have always to be handled
with tact. I have heard of an
Indian general who, in a day
when sanitation was very little
regarded in the service, had
picked up the idea from some
textbook and ridden it to death.
Wise C.Os., when they got the
tip he would pay the usual “Sur-
prise” visit, put the whole show
through a rigorous course of
spit and polish. They always
left, however, a shovelful or so
of unpleasant filth where it must
be discovered, usually behind
rhe cookhouse. Towards this
the inspecting general was gently
manoeuvred. It invariably sent
him into a spasm of self-con-
gratulation on having saved the
troops from a dangerous epi-
demic, and all was well. If the
stuff was particularly disgusting
a first-class report was assured,
and mess that evening was cor-
respondingly festive.
# * * *
“Wattie”: An advertisement which is
new to me is flashed on the screen nightly
at the picture theatre at Boulder (W.A.).
In one corner is a tasteful picture of a
stork holding a basket with the usual
contents, while the letterpress reads:
“Nurse ; Certificated Midwife,
Street, Boulder.” It says some-
thing for the hardiness of the modern
miss that the announcement has long
ceased to occasion maidenly blushes —if,
indeed, it ever did. It must bring results,
too, for the slide has been shown for
over a year.
“Betul”: If we do see (and taste) a
few bullocks roasted whole during next
year’s celebrations (B. 1/ 9 / ’37) let’s hope
the cooks make a better job or it than
they did at Laver ton (Vic.) a couple of
years ago when the ox was little better
than singed. It takes a long time to cook
a bullock in one piece. I attended two
barbecues at Seattle (U.S.A.) and the
carcass had been slowly cooking for 48
hours, being turned continuously on the
spit day and night. Even then it wasn’t
overdone.
* * * *
“Sandy”: All these recent critics of
the kilt as an active-service uniform have
entirely overlooked its recruiting powers.
There are volunteer kilted regiments in
every part of the Empire. Of all the
Australian militia the Victorian Scottish
is the only regiment able to pick and
choose its recruits. Compared with the
kilt, the ordinary infantry uniform is
drab and unattractive. And when gas,
heat or undergrowth renders the kilt un-
suitable it is a simple matter to change
into slacks or shorts, as Highland regi-
ments now do.
* * *
“Bert the Carpenter”: At one time the
roads through the beautiful Adelaide hills
were disfigured with huge advertisement
hoardings, while on every available cliff-
face, tree-trunk or fence-rail was daubed
something calling attention to Postle’s
Pills or Gummo Motor Oil. All this is
changed since the Government brought
in the Roadsides Advertisements Act;
you may drive for miles without seeing
an advertisement in any size, shape or
form. Another indirect result of the
legislation is that every tank near the
road is now resplendent in a coat of
gleaming aluminium paint. Just before
the Act was passed, an oil company had
bought the right to paint a petrol ad. on
every available tank, and had them all
smartened up to receive the attention of
the signwriters. The Act intervened, and
I have yet to hear of a tank-owner who
has any complaint to make.
* * * *
“Coot”: Upon its recent arrival at
the Victoria Dock (Melb.), a cargo
steamer hoisted a red flag to indicate that
she was unloading inflammable cargo.
The chief officer was promptly directed
to haul it down, as port regulations re-
quired a red flag with a white centre to
be hoisted in such a case. The correc-
tion was made by the quartermaster
hastily stitching his white handkerchief
across the middle of the bunting, which
satisfied officialdom. The incident re-
calls that the house flag flown by Federal
line steamers was the result of an almost
identical happening over a century ago.
The original founders of the line adopted
as a house flag a red St. George’s Cross
on a white ground, but when the first
frigate of the fleet arrived at Spithead
a peremptory reminder came from a
near-by warship that this was the dis-
tinctive flag of a British admiral —for
that matter it still is. The offending bun-
ting‘was promptly lowered, to reappear
with a large blue handkerchief stitched
into the centre. The revised version is
still flown as the Federal line house flag.
POST-MORTEM.
Don’t ask me how I feel just now
After last night.
I’m dead, I’m sunk, I'm anyhow—
Can’t eat a bite.
I’m sorry I got out of bed,
My throat is dry,
I’ve got a whirlpool in my head,
I don’t know why.
Perhaps it was the row they made —I think I
still can hear
Those everlasting choruses . . . Who smashed
that chandelier?
I will admit we had some drinks, but nothing
more than beer—
Great Scot!
It couldn’t have been the beer.
I'm feeling limper than a rag,
The same as you
A palate lined with sugarbag?
I’ve got that, too.
My eyes are full of sand and brick,
They throb a treat;
But how I came to feel so sick
Has got me beat.
Of course we ran about enough to last us for
a year;
Such unaccustomed exercise can be a bit
severe . . .
Well, yes, that eighteen-gallon went, and that’s
a lot of beer,
But, oh!
It couldn’t have been the beer.
You should have seen me crawling out
At half-past nine.
Your head’s a gyroscope? No doubt,
But what of mine?
I know sore heads and revelry
Go hand in hand,
But this distress is something we
Can’t understand.
It might have been the sandwiches we ate upon
the pier,
That pestilential pickled pork!—l thought it
tasted queer—
Of course we had a drink or two, but I don’t
blame the beer,
Good Lord,
It couldn’t have been the beer!
N.S.W.
ABIE.


20forl'&
10 for 9y
WIBB4
« n
All over the world Craven A
are appreciated for the
excellence of their quality.
CRAVEN A
ARE MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS.
THIS
1 - -
TIPPED CIGARETTE OF
GENERATI
aai
POLITICAL POINTS
In spite of his complaint that reduc-
tion of the special Commonwealth grant
from £1,330,000 to £1,200,000 was an
outrage on South Australia, Butler is
lowering taxes and increasing Crown
employees’ pay again (“total benefits,
£824,000”) and anticipating a surplus
(£3984) withal. Forgan Smith says his
Queensland Ministry can’t lower taxes
and that annual loss, £280,000 last
year, will be £50,500 more this year.
Queensland gets no special Common-
wealth grant.
Kyabram (Vic.), long ago the home of
a reform movement, was visited the
other day by Hocking, of the Vic.
Cockies’ organisation, who “spoke for
more than three hours in justification of
the central council’s attitude towards
composite Ministries.” More than three
hours! At 140 words a minute that’s
more than 25,000 words. If this goes on
Kyabram will have to start another re-
form movement to deliver Victoria from
Hocking.
Having nothing else to offer, the
N.S.W. Government is getting its legion
of unemployed youths psycho-analysed
—no, psychologised—“to determine their
suitability for various callings.” The
order for industrial psychology in bulk
was so big that, according to an admir-
ing newspaper, the head of the concern
that got it had to put on a special staff.
The proceeding is characteristic of the
Stevens Government. They ask for jobs
and it gives them industrial psychology!
Before an October election was thought
of, Victorian U.A.P. Assemblymen were
all against transport strangulation.
“Twenty-seven thousand a year to run
the department!” said Knox scornfully.
“Twenty-six different sets of regula-
tions!” said Hollway. “Look what it’s
done to the Riverina trade!” moaned
others. All the same, Argyle’s refer-
ences to the subject in his policy speech
were little better than vague generalities.
In Victoria a fair-deal-for-transport
pledge, backed by a clear and uncompro-
mising programme, would draw thousands
of the electors from the transport-strangu-
lation parties. It can’t be done in the
timorous Argyle fashion. Something
more is needed than a flabby protest
against “undue interference with motor
transport” and a faint promise of un-
specified “amendments to the Act.”
The Mt. Buffalo (Vic.) Chalet was run
at a loss of £5300 last year. It might
have done better if it had a license ; still,
Kosciusko (N.S.W.), which has a license,
is reckoned to have done well when it
loses £5OOO or £6OOO. In other words,
taxpayers in the two States which sport
these Government joints are paying sub-
stantially for the entertainment of the
relatively small class which patronises
them, and they are not sufficiently com-
pensated by the newspaper photographs
of grinning flappers which emanate from
the caravanserais. They don’t even get a
leg-show for the money, the legs being
cased in hideous tweed pants.
Dog doesn’t eat dog, and doctors never
differ in public ; but it is no secret that
eminent medical men consider that far
too much has been made of the infan-
tile-paralysis “epidemic.” However,
Beasley, M.H.R., is evidently of opinion
that the scaremongering hasn’t gone far
enough. Demanding again that the army
should be called out, or something, to
prevent the entire juvenile population of
Victoria taking refuge in West Sydney,
he said to Page “If the disease spreads
to New South Wales, I’ll kick you to
death.” Were this flatulent politician
serious there would be a funeral of a
very good doctor, who is not among the
scaremongers, for there’s never been a
year when N.S.W. was without cases.
A Frenchman’s impressions of the
Australian pavilion at Paris: —•
Exhibits in other pavilions were obvi-
ously planned and arranged to appeal to
the French feeling for art. There is no-
thing artistic about the Australian show
unless boots and shoes and the like can be
said to fall into that category. But, no,
one sees an enlarged photograph of a
young lady, Mile. Margaret Vyner, with
other enlarged photographs to the right and
left: a harbor bridge on one side, opossums
on the other.
Incidentally, the Commonwealth main-
tains a commercial agent in Paris. He
gets £l6OO a year.
The stay-in strike of Melbourne gas-
workers flared up again for 15 hours or
so because a few Tasmanian gasmen
had been “denied justice” or something,
and a party of Korumburra coalminers
started one on their own account. In be-
“Premier Dunstan (C.P.), who was a member of the Argyle (U.A.P.) Ministry before he
defeated it with Labor support, now protests that the Argyle policy is ‘Office at any price.’”
“PLAY THE GAME, YOU VEGETABLE, PLAY THE GAME!"
twee n the Police Commissioner, who
hasn’t been long enough in Australia to
l ea m that strikes against Arbitration
awards are unlawful, announced that he
couldn’t allow his constables to eject
stay-in strikers from other people’s
P r °P ert y unless a breach of the peace
was apprehended. Trespass is usually
consi dered a breach of the peace,
The Victorian Police Commissioner’s
interpretation of constabulary duty when
stay-in strikers give themselves the works
was challenged. Premier Dunstan’s corn-
ment was characteristic—“lt’s a matter
for the Commissioner.” Politicians
mumble these words in their sleep.
“The publicity efforts of the Austra-
lian National Travel Association in
Western America” were the subject of a
letter addressed to “S. M. Herald” by
“Traveller.” He said he could testify
from a residence of six months that the
“efforts” were barren, and that the
A.N.T.A. office in Los Angeles had
neither Australian trade bulletins nor
year-books when he called. The Govern-
ment at Canberra has taken action of
the kind the Government at Canberra
always takes. It has given this super-
fluous self-advertising show another
£5OOO, making the grant for 1937-38
£20,000. It is a wicked waste of the
people’s money.
Westralia’s “Sunday Times” sum-
marises the ghastly facts of the Perth
Government’s group-settlement fiasco:
Of over 2000 original settlers fewer than
900 remain. Of the original outlay of
£7,500,000 over £6,000,000 has been written
off as a dead loss to the State. Five per
cent, interest on the new assessments for
1935-36 was £42,000; only £17,000 was
collected.
Lives were wrecked and magnificent
hardwood forests sacrificed also. And
all that hopelessly insolvent farmers
might add to the overproduction of
butter!
One result of the election sprung by
Dunstan and his Labor allies, who used
to be enemies, will be redistribution of
Assembly seats on the one-vote-one-value
principle, with, perhaps, a margin of one-
fifth more or one-fifth less. Every im-
provement in communications has made
the arrangement which gives country
votes twice the value of city votes look
increasingly fraudulent, and now Mel-
bourne can be reached in a couple of
hours from the remotest part of Vic-
toria. There will be a majority in the
new House for a democratic redistribu-
tion, and when that comes about the
“clever” Dunstan-Hocking clique will
have been the means of losing the
Cockies at least eight seats.
Perhaps in reply to an Adelaide
clergyman who thundered at Brisbane
that his State had “the wettest and worst
Parliament on record,” the Butler Gov-
ernment has published its betting-law
figures for 1936-37. They show that 384
registered bookmakers made gross profits
amounting to £540,200, chiefly in licensed
shops. The turnover in shops amounted
to £5,350,400 out of £7,057,500 alto-
gether, whereas the totes on courses
where the gallopers perform took only
£351,200. In short, shop betting is
strangling the non-proprietary sport and
at least darkening the outlook for S.A.
horsebreeding.
Three Victorian Laborites want to
have a cut at Hogan in Warrenheip-
Grenville, but the A.L.P. executive has
forbidden it. Hogan was Labor Premier
in 1929-32 ; the A.L.P. executive tossed
him out for subscribing to the Premiers'
Plan or something, and there was a court
case. Hogan was returned as Ind. Labor
and joined the Country party. Possibly
the executive has forgotten all about it,
but others haven’t. They remember in
particular a pamphlet in which Hogan
expressed revised opinions of his old
pals.
In pursuit of its policy of warning
Great Powers that a Time will Come
“S. M. Herald” tells Japan that Russia
won’t “sit witnessing the rape of China
unmoved and inactive.”
The art of unofficial intervention, which
she has learned and perfected in Spain,
will be sooner or later employed against
Japan in China.
Then there has been Red Russian inter-
vention in Spanish affairs. In her many
attacks on “the Germans” and “the
Italians” in Spain, “Granny” never
before admitted it.
Because it has seven Parliaments, Aus-
tralia is billed for seven annual subscrip-
tions to the Empire Parliamentary Asso-
ciation (Britain pays one), and the
seven annual subs, by no means exhaust
what the taxpayers have to find. For
example, they were coolly charged with
£7OO for expenses, of the Commonwealth
members (not Ministers ; their bills came
to £12,000 or so) who attended the con-
ference that coincided with the Corona-
tion. Jennings, M.H.R., who was away
many months, says he didn’t take his
share, but he took his salary.
Realising, perhaps, that he won’t be in
Canberra much longer, J. Silver Collings,
who is called Leader of the Opposition
(three) in the Senate, delivered a wild and
whirling attack on A.B.C. chiefs. The
Commission he described as “cruelly and
foully” biased, the g.m. as “a whipper-
snapper and an impostor,” and the lady
member as having “gone through the
handbags of girl employees during their
absence” —the dead limit, even for a Labor
Senator. And all because the g.m. is
reported to have said that “speeches by
politicians” were “neither educational nor
entertaining.” This the furious old gentle-
man announced as “a shocking indignity
to the Australian people.”
The suggestion that we are infants in
swaddling clothes leaves me speechless.
It would take a thunderbolt to do that.
A job that was overdue:
While Melbourne and suburbs are always
under-represented in the local Assembly, the
long-delayed redistribution of Federal seats
resulted in Melbourne, Yarra and Melbourne
Ports, together with Ballarat and Bendigo, being
over-represented at Canberra. When transfer
of electors was entered upon, the authori-
ties could find only 41,764 in Melbourne,
44,899 in Yarra, 48,970 in Melbourne Ports,
44,886 in Bendigo and 41,789 in Ballarat,
whereas there were 91,592 in Henty, 80,712
in Kooyong and 78,024 in Flinders. Under
the new plan, Flinders will have 54,174, Koo-
yong 65,196, Henty 62,579, Ballarat 50,452,
Bendigo 50,246, Melbourne 59,790, Melbourne
Ports 59,141 and Yarra 62,336. The greatest
margin will be 17,952, between Fawkner (66,653)
and Wimmera (48,701). The Melbourne altera-
tions will give non-Labor candidates a chance
in former Labor electorates, but not this time.


H I
Id LIK.E TO BORROW Vouß. „
PETS por p* 'MEEK oR.TWO
FLORA V. FAUNA.
“A Viennese Court has granted a woman a divorce on the ground that her husband had converted the home into a menagerie.”


Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House-
holders' Comprehensive, Workers’
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
EVERY MARRIED MAN
should be insured. A few shillings a week put away regularly now will buy a surprisingly
large amount of security for your dependants in the event of your death. By taking out an
endowment policy you can ensure against want in your own and your wife’s old age.
Australasian
CATHOLIC
Assurance
COMPANY, LTD.
“THE A.C.A.”
has ample funds to meet claims, and is now paying liberal bonuses
in both the Industrial and Ordinary Departments. For review of
annual report see “Bulletin,” 25/11/’36.
All Classes of Assurances Effected.
Head Office: A.C.A. Building, 66 King Street, Sydney.
E. J. Mooney, Managing Director.
P. J. Ryan, Secretary.
Branch Offices :
Victoria: A.C.A. Building, 118-126 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: A.C.A. Building, 270 Queen Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Paringa Building, 13 Hindley Street, Adelaide.
Western Australia: Warwick House, St. George’s Terrace, Perth.
District Offices and Agencies Throughout the States.
Top of the world.. Banff,
Lake Louise, Emerald Lake,
You’ll see 600 miles of the
best of Canada’s Rockies
if you go to Europe via
GaiMaJliatiQicifcc
247 George Street, Sydney
5 William Street, Melbourne
Canadian Pacific Rly. Co., Inc. in Canada
PERSONAL ITEMS
Edgar Percival, for whom Australia
could not find a job, came out of the
King’s Cup air race with a splendid
record. The winner, C. E. Gardner, was
in one of Percival’s ’planes. Percival him-
self took third place and fastest time —
238.7 m.p.h. average. Percival was the
Duke of Kent’s racing pilot before he
took up designing and manufacturing
’planes.
Close on the gaining of his doctorate,
which he received for a thesis on the bio-
chemistry of certain micro-organisms,
Dr. Sydney Dattilo-Rubbo, son of the
well-known Sydney artist, has been ap-
pointed senior lecturer in bacteriology at
Melbourne University. At present he
is at the London School of Hygiene and
Tropical Medicine, where he got his
diploma in his chosen subject.
Nearly 50 years ago, when the Sydney
wool firm of Mort amalgamated with
the Melbourne firm of Richard Golds-
brough, young Eldred Moser went in with
the outfit, getting his training under F. E.
Winchcombe, who later headed Winch-
combe, Carson’s. In 1906 Moser linked
up with Arthur Schute and Frank Bell to
found the business of Schute, Bell. The
partnership has been broken by the death
of Moser, who was managing director
and whose name will be mentioned
kindly wherever woolmen foregather.
Ashton Murphy, a Dawson River
(C.Q.) native, and an old Bulletin con-
tributor, has retired after 40 years in the
public service. Murphy was equally at
home with a writer’s pen or an artist’s
pencil. As a postmaster, moving round
Queensland central western towns he
found plenty of material—Henry Lawson
said of him that, though he could not
draw like George Lambert or Mahony,
he could “lick all the artist
coves into a cocked hat at bush
stuff.” Steele Rudd was his
close friend, and Murphy was
the principal artist on “Steele
Rudd’s Magazine” during its
short but glorious career 33
years ago.
His youthful enthusiasm un-
diminished, the Rev. Nicholas
Hey, now 75, was a recent
student at a Sydney University
course in anthropology. He
wants to advise more usefully
those who propose to labor
among the aborigines. Hey
was a Moravian missionary
who went to Cape York in
1891 with James Gibson Ward,
whose sister he married. He
founded Mapoon and other
missions, remaining among the
blacks for 28 years, and did
serviceable exploratory work.
John Douglass named the Hey
River after him.
Back in Australia to spend
a year in his native Victoria
before retiring to his home in
Kenya is Charles Belcher, who
has spent the last 20 years of
his life as a Judge mainly in
Britain’s tropical colonies.
Belcher, a son of a Victorian
M.L.C., was born at Geelong
in 1876. After he was ad-
mitted to the Bar in 1902 he went to
London, and since then has emulated
Solomon in Zanzibar, Kenya, Nyassa-
land, Cyprus, Egypt and Trinidad. He
was knighted in 1931. Away from the
law Belcher’s interest is birds; he’s
written about them from Geelong to
Nyassaland.
Herbert Hardacre, the sole surviving
member of Andy Dawson’s first Queens-
land Labor Ministry (1899), went to his
old department to say farewell to Land
Court Judge P. W. Shannon, who re-
tired after 55 years in the Queensland
public service. Hardacre said, among
other things, that men of valuable ex-
perience who were mentally and physi-
cally fitted for their work should not be
compulsorily retired. He himself is 76.
He was Minister for Education in Ryan’s
Ministry from 1915 until appointed a
Judge of the Land Court in 1919.
Looking back:
In his farewell speech P. W. Shannon
said that W. H. Traill, who edited The
Bulletin from June, 1881, to April, 1886,
framed the “highly efficient record system” em-
ployed in the Queensland Lands Dept. Traill
was 37 when he became the principal owner
of The Bulletin; 20 years before he had come
to Australia from the Orkneys, where he was
born. He was in turn jackeroo, station manager
and a clerk in the Vic. Mines Dept, before
joining the Queensland Lands Dept. Gresley
Lukin was his colleague there, and when Lukin
was established as chief of the “Courier” and
“Queenslander” Traill said good-bye to the
civil service, and entered journalism. Except
for five years as a N.S.W. M.L.A. —he repre-
sented South Sydney—he remained a journalist
until his death in Brisbane in 1902.
A counterpart of Queensland’s blind
cattle judge Jim Scrymgeour is Arthur
Carter, of Lagnicourt, Moree (N.S.W.),
and Talaheena, Longreach (Q.), who
judges wool with a snap of the fingers.
Carter served with the 17th Battalion,
and named his properties after places
overseas he has reason to remember.
John L. Ruthven, who joined the
Johnny Walker firm in 1896, and is still
going strong, has returned from a world
tour to get into harness again. His first
trip from Australia (he was born at Port
“JOHNNY.”
Macquarie, N.S.W.) was to the Boer War
with the 2nd Mounted Rifles; he re-
joined Johnnie Walker in 1902, becom-
ing assistant manager for Australia in
1912 and g.m. in 1923. Now in his early
fifties, Ruthven is a keen golfer.
Monsignor Gsell approximates more
nearly to a feudal bishop than any other
cleric in Australia. For all practical pur-
poses he is not only pastor but ruling
prince of Bathurst Island, off the N.T.
coast, where he rules native life with
practical commonsense. One of the
northern jokes about him is that he has
bought more wives than any other Aus-
tralian. The kindly, bearded old man has
made it a practice to purchase from the
tribes to be educated and cared for young
aboriginal girls in danger of being sold to
Asiatic pearlers and wild bush savages.
Protector of Aborigines.
His mission is a model in method, and
his handling of natives guided by rare in-
sight into the abo. mind and a firm be-
nignity which have done much to miti-
gate the rigors of life for the black-
fellows without inhibiting their natural
instincts. He has been in Sydney to
attend the first Plenary Council of the
Catholic Church held for 34 years.
W. R. Petrie celebrated the 100th anni-
versary of the landing in Brisbane of his
grandfather, Andrew Petrie, whose name
is written more than once on the map
of Queensland, by recounting some of
his family’s experiences to the local his-
torical society. Andrew worked as a civil
engineer in Sydney for six years before
going to Brisbane as foreman of works
in the first steamer to enter Moreton Bay.
He built much of early Brisbane, and was
a noted surveyor. His son, Tom. Petrie,
was one of the best authorities on the
aborigines, and his Reminiscences is a
goldmine of abo. lore and early Queens-
land history.
Victoria has another K.C. in Crown
Prosecutor W. St. G. Sproule. Sproule
was born at Ballarat, and has been at the
Bar since 1904. He succeeded High Court
Chief Justice Latham as lecturer in con-
tracts at Melbourne University, and was
there for five years.
The retiring Anglican Bishop of Graf-
ton (N.S.W.), J. W. Ashton, has been
connected with the church in Australia
for over 40 years. His first charge after
he arrived from England was St.
Andrew’s, S. Brisbane. Then he had a
few years in Bundaberg, returned to St.
Andrew’s in 1906, and transferred to Mel-
bourne five years later. He was rural
dean of St. Kilda for a spell before he
turned northward with a mitre three
years after the war.
David G. Lumsden, the secretary of
Mt. Lyell Mining and Railway Co., dead
recently in Edinburgh, was with Bewick
Moreing when he was invited about 25
years ago to Mt. Lyell. One who knew
mining and metallurgy from A to Z, he
was a sick man when he left Australia
for treatment on the other side.
In L. E. B. Stretton Melbourne County
Court Bench gained a very human man
for its latest Judge, and one whose
wide knowledge of the law and of County
Court rules is pleasing to members of the
Vic. Bar. One of the youngest Vic.
Judges ever appointed—he is 43 —
Stretton, J., figured as counsel for the
defence in many important Vic. criminal
trials and also assisted a number of
Royal Commissioners, one of his last
appearances as counsel being at the in-
quest into the deaths of the Wonthaggi
mine victims. While he was engaged as
counsel in the Vic. police inquiry last
year, a mysterious caller twice telephoned
threats that his house would be bombed.
Colin Clark, a 31-year-old lecturer in
statistics at Cambridge University, on
leave in Australia, has already lectured
at Melbourne and Adelaide Universities,
and comes to Sydney for a few weeks in
October, taking in Queensland and
Maoriland afterwards. A specialist in
national-income and population statistics,
he is a member of the British committee
investigating population problems, parti-
cularly the economic causes of the de-
clining birthrate. He has looked into the
problems of most European
countries, and says Sweden,
“which shares with Aus-
tralia the distinction of hav-
ing taken the advice of
economists during the de-
pression,” is the most in-
teresting from a political-
economy viewpoint.
Frank Downer has been made an
honorary life-member of S. A. Jockey
Club —the only other is Tom Barr Smith.
Committeeman for 14 years, polo-player,
and at one time master of the hunt club,
he was given the odd privilege two years
ago—being then 71 —of being the last to
ride over the steeplechase fences at
Morphettville before they were modified.
“Uramao”: Dead at Greymouth
(M.L.), Patrick Raleigh Mulcare, an old-
time Bulletin versifier. Born at Dan-
denong (Vic.), he joined the police, was
made a sergeant and helped to find the
Kellys. For the last 43 of his 87 years
P.R.M. had been a cripple.
Dead in Brisbane, in his forties, Andrew
Phillips, who returned from Europe only
a few months ago to exchange the
London sub-managership of the National
Bank of Australasia for the Queensland
managership. Fie came from Charters
Towers, was a member of the North
Queensland bank staff and was absorbed
into the National staff after the N.Q.
National amalgamation. He served as a
branch manager in Thursday Island,
Bundaberg and Brisbane. During the
war, he was on Gallipoli and in France,
and was invalided home wounded in
1917.
Solid as a rock at 80, in Tasmania,
where his grandfather settled at Fordon in
1823, is Colonel Cyril St. Clair Cameron.
Educated at Launceston and Edinburgh
University he began his regular soldiering
as a second lieutenant in the Ist King’s
Dragoon Guards in 1879, served in the
march to Kandahar with the 9th Lancers,
commanded the first Tasmanian Infantry
in S’Africa, was mentioned in dispatches
and received a C.B. At Edward Vll.’s
coronation he was in charge of the Aus-
tralian forces. Cameron sat as a Senator
in the first Commonwealth Parliament and
again from 1907 to 1913, and, at 58,
took part in the landing at Gallipoli as
a member of Birdwood’s staff. On his
return he was appointed hon. colonel of
the 26th A.L.H. One of his sons,
Donald, is a lieutenant-colonel command-
ing the 22nd A.L.H. ; he served through
the war as part of his 15-year term with
the Cameron Highlanders. Another son,
with the Royal Horse Artillery, was men-
tioned in dispatches after Neuve Chapelle,
where he was killed. A third served with
one of his father’s old regiments, the
Staffordshire Yeomanry, and with the
R.F.C. throughout the war.


tig
9
X
A
'fo . ' ’V
r;
It'S DRAG-FREE -
It's FAST and TOUGH
like the ZERRIZZLY
The ZEBRA's flashing speed amazes,
And grim old GRIZZLY'S tough as blazes!
ZEBRIZZLY thus combines the two,
Like DRAG FREE SHELL, the oil for you!
Its SPEED makes engines extra-fast,
Its TOUGHNESS makes one's money last!
mot«> o| L
RECOMMENDATIONS:
For the correct grade for your car, consult tbs SHELL TABLE OF RECOMMENDATIONS
which are available from every garage. Pocket-charts will be posted free on application.
Starting causes more engine-
wear than all the running.
Shell Motor Oil is Drag-
Free and Tough—Fast flow-
ing to reduce Starting Wear,
and Tough to stand the
heat of steady driving and
to Last Longer.
&
ZEBRA
USE SHELL SPECIALISED LUBRICATION SERVICE
LOIIS-H


ABORIGINALITIES
BLACK & WHITE WHISKY "PLURRY GOOD!"
“Notaden”: Sight of the green, copper
and purple uniform of a rifle-bird flashing
at the scrub edge aet me thinking of how
queerly many Australian popular bird
names have developed. This brave lad
got his nickname from a certain simi-
larity to the rifleman’s uniform in early
days of military control. The dollar-
bird’s white wing-spots go back to the
time when Chilean and Spanish dollars
were regular Australian currency. Jacky
Winter’s surname is gained because he
stays where he is throughout the year,
and hence becomes a prominent person
when more spectacular songsters are galli-
vanting in a warmer climate. He fre-
quently mentions his other name in his
sweet little dance - accompaniments,
“Jacky-Jacky-Jacky.” Whether big Jacky
derives from French or English speech,
the kookaburra portion of his moniker is
all his own, and good abo., too. Years
ago, Tweed abos. called him “Koo-ark.”
* * * *
“Murrungurry”: Recent references to
water-rats recalls the great plague of
those animals that occurred on the
Balonne River (Q.) in 1892. At Gul-
narber and thereabouts the amphibians
appeared in thousands, swarming over the
banks and into houses and sheds, and
raising bedlam among the fowls. Usually
the water-rat is wary and cunning, emerg-
ing from the burrow about dusk, and
frequenting secluded parts of rivers and
creeks. But the Balonne multitude were
bold brigands. Previous to their appear-
ance the river had been in high flood.
This may have driven the rats to seek
food on land, for they were ravenous.
The plague lasted about two months,
then the mobs disappeared as mysteri-
ously as they had come.
* * * *
“Tripod”: That unappreciated tree the
quandong, known in some parts as the
“blue-fig,” mills into a light, strong, hard
timber which is ideal for boat-decking.
The late pearl “king,” Jimmy Clark, used
quandong for the decks of most, if not
all, of his luggers, which, considering the
wear and tear on a lugger deck, is a fine
compliment to any timber.
“H.A.L.”: Keith Minchin, of Adel-
aide, who runs a koala farm for show
purposes, has made some discoveries
which should help to save Billy Bluegum
from extinction. One is that the koala
varies its diet according to the eucalyptus
content of the leaves ; it may neglect
one species of tree in favor of another at
certain seasons, or it may find only odd
trees of the same species suitable for the
same reason. Minchin started tasting
the leaves himself, and after some time
found that he was able to select suitable
fodder trees. Most of the so-called
“breeding” of koalas has been done in
close proximity to wild colonies; in
Minchin’s case, however, there are none
within several hundred miles, and he has
reared 16 since he started the work, some
of them being the third generation, all
healthy.
* * * *
“Dungeness” - : The outback mourns in
often vigorous language the passing of
the petrol-tin and its native case, and
consequent loss of a wide range of domes-
tic and other utilities fashioned from them.
Western Queensland has hundreds, prob-
ably thousands, of houses and outbuild-
ings walled and roofed with opened-out
tins. They have for years provided the
universal bucket, baking-dish, cake-tin,
milk-dish, wash-up bowl and a score of
other essential domestic needs. A few
cases nailed together and one side cut
out of the tins is the best of all bush
dressing-tables or kitchen dressers.
Packed round with damp charcoal in a
carbide drum, with a charcoal-packed
bag on a case-end as lid, they provide a
first-rate cooler for the tucker. Or, for
that matter, for the beer, if it travels
that far. A promise to restore them
would swing many an outback vote.
* * * *
“Western”: I’d like some Aboliar to
kindly explain (1) why the white-man’s
dog always despises the nigger’s dog and
will go to considerable pains to demon-
strate it; (2) why the nigger’s dog always
accepts this inferiority complex and even
when in a majority will skulk humbly
away ; (3) why wild bush magpies, round
about nesting-time, invade farms and
even towns, deliberately intent on the
murder of those of their kind who have
accepted domestication. Don’t say they
do not, for I have just rescued a couple
of tame birds, almost in the last gasp, on
the lawn outside, while, perched on the
telephone poles, the would-be assassins
are still heatedly debating my unwar-
ranted interference.
* * * *
“Bogaduck”: Recently the Adelaide
Zoo received a doe scrub wallaby which
had been caught in a rabbit-trap ; one
of her forelegs had been fractured and
her tail had been dislocated. Setting of
the injured limb and tail was a problem,
and an anaesthetic was administered. As
“Look, boys—no hands!”
soon as the ether took effect the hair
was clipped near the injuries and plaster
casts put in position. Three-quarters of
an hour later the wallaby came to, and
before long was quietly eating, and when
I saw her last she was almost well again.
I am trying to snare a buck wallaby as
a mate for her. Can anyone give me
advice as to the best method of captur-
ing one without damage? At least a
dozen wallabies feed every night on a
clover paddock on my place, but how to
secure one is something of a problem.
Dogs can be ruled out, and so can rabbit-
traps.
* sfc H= *
“Tip”: Where has “Mag” been hiding
all this time if he has only just seen a
man standing on two bareback horses
take them over hurdles (B. l/9/’37)?
In the circuses of years ago, when horse-
manship was the backbone of the show,
the act was a common one, and. usually
the performer drove a four-in-hand team
in front of him as well. The trick is a
favorite one at the big military displays
in the Old Country, and can be counted
on every year at one or other of them.
# s': s|c sf
“Old-timer”: Old Mac came back
from town boozed. In the course of
a wild family row a lanky son let
drive with a lump of limestone; the
missile missed Mac, and smashed the
three bottles he had brought home.
Mac grabbed the reins and set off
back to town, while his younger son and
flapper daughter emerged from coyer
and watched him depart. It was mid-
night when Mac returned singing. He
made for the door of the house, barged
into something and collapsed as an
awful din shook the night. Sharp things
prodded Mac, he was pummelled by dim
shapes, blaring horns jarred his ear-
drums ; finally the stars fell on him in
a heap. He awoke in the morning to
find himself held down by bags of fertil-
iser on arms and legs, in the midst of
the wreckage of empty petrol-tins that
had been built round the door as a barri-
cade to hold the half-dozen wild year-
lings the boys had rounded up as a
reception committee for him. Later they
freed one arm to allow him to sign the
pledge.
* * $ sk
“Pjiuw” : “Koombooloomba” must
know a different brand of plain-turkey
from that familiar to me if he maintains
that the birds have “delicate” gizzards
and eat very few grasshoppers (B.
l/9/’37). I have cleaned many a turkey,
and always found the gizzard extra-
strong and muscular, even for a big
bird. As to grasshoppers, countless Abo-
liars will bear me witness that they are
the favorite food of the turkey. In a
good season, when the grass is high and
the ’hoppers are like the hosts of Beelze-
bub, the birds get so fat and lazy on the
easily-gathered meals that they squat
sooner than take wing, and have to be
practically kicked up for a flying shot.
* * * *
“Vic G.”: “Old-timer’s” “cuss” (B.
1/9/’37) who knocked up two horses and
found the boss’s daughter while search-
ing for his little red bitch becomes auto-
matically suspect. O. Henry fashioned a
very effective yarn out of the theory
that the man who is kind to his dog is
cruel to his women, wherein the dick
trailed his man to an island off the
Chilean coast and was confronted with
two ex-Americans to fit the facts. As
always on the frontiers, Innocence
shielded Guilt, and when all other arts
had failed the ’tec found occasion to
kick poor Fido. The man who showed
fight was arrested on a charge of wife
desertion. “Police Gazette,” please copy.
* * * *
“East Riding”: No need for elaborate
apparatus (B. 25/8/’37) to catch eels.
Get a bunch of the coarsest red knitting
worsted, ravel, some of it up into an
untidy tangle, and after fixing it to a
string, drop it at the eel’s address. The
sinuous one takes the worsted for a bunch
of red worms and sinks his teeth in it.
As soon as the bite is felt jerk the biter
out on the bank with his teeth tangled
in the wool. I learned the trick from
some Yorkshire village nippers who
called it “bobbing.”
5jC # ❖ #
“Warrigal”: Bluey was outgrowing his
puppyhood and commencing his novitiate
on cattle. His first “wheel” was not a
success, as he turned the mob after the
stray instead of vice versa. Bitter recrimi-
nations evidently hurt his feelings after
doing his best, but he tried to rectify
matters by dashing in from the other
side when he wasn’t wanted and shoving
the mob from the ridge down into a
valley full of scrub. It seemed to dawn
on him, after further instruction, that
this manoeuvre wasn’t wanted either, so
he slunk to the rear and said nothing
until we came to a bridge. Without wait-
ing for orders he exercised his initiative
and rushed the tail until a milling jamb
of bullocks stuck fast in the middle and
took a quarter of an hour to clear. Ap-
propriate language sent him flying into
the bush with his tail between his legs,
and he was seen no more until just on
sunset, when we reached the stockyards.
Bluey was standing in the sliprails, con-
fident that this time he must be doing
the right thing, since every other avenue
had been exhausted. As soon as the head
of the mob entered the wings he charged
from the front and sent them half-way
back to where they originally came from
at a gallop. Considering the breed, he’s
going cheap.
* * * Hi
“V.G.”: “Freewheel,” jolting along in
the wake of the ship of the desert (B.
1/9/’37), was but bowing to superior
wisdom. The camel is a supercilious
beast, and has reason to be, for he alone
is aware of what no man knoweth, looks
not whither he putteth his foot and would
as lief trample on one of the Faithful as
on the Infidel “Freewheel.” Every
Hassan, Achmiet and Ibrahim is familiar
with 99 names of the Prophet. Every
camel knows the hundredth, and, as each
is thinking the same thing as his prede-
cessor, it follows that his foot comes
down in the same place. When “F.”
next doth ride abroad, let him, like the
oont, meditate upon that which is written.
* * * *
“Dugai”: I get a bit tired of reading
these yarns about the deadly mamba of
Africa, with its death in a couple of
minutes, coupled with exceptional fero-
city. Every country seems to make the
same claim —the cobra of India, Burma
and Siam; the rattlesnake of U.S.A. and
Mexico ; the fer-de-lance of Brazil and
the rest of equatorial South America.
The explanation is that these reptiles
mostly bite persons devoid of covering,
the fangs getting in good work on the
naked flesh: the rapidity of death de-
pends entirely on where the venom is
injected. For sheer ferocity give me the
Westralian black snake. Not as veno-
mous as the tiger or the death-adder, it
makes up for that lack by biting deep
and hanging on for a solid minute with
a bulldog grip.
* * * *
“Tindale”: That phenomenon of the
rise in temperature in certain areas on
a cold winter morning (B. l/9/’37) is
caused by the presence of underground
streams of water directly below where
the warm air is noticeable. I have
noticed this peculiarity many times in
Queensland and in various districts, but
mostly in flat country.
* * * *
“Pisces”: One of the best feeds of fish
ever I had was from the bale-hole,
Maneroo station (C.Q.). The hole, an
overshot in the Darr, went dry gradu-
ally. After the cranes, pelicans and wild
pigs had taken all they could stack there
was still a moving mass of silver in the
well which had been sunk in the bottom
of the hole. As the water was clean, and
as it was well stocked, it meant those
yellowbellies would keep indefinitely
and improve in the keeping —they added
to their condition by eating all the smaller
stuff. The few of us in the know about
that fish larder kept it to ourselves. For
three months or more we could scoop
out a yellowbelly rich with fat, and
take it home with us any time we were
passing. A little bit of work with a pin
in the top jaw of each catch added
weight to our story that the fish had been
caught with a line and hook —no out-
sider ever really knew how we became
such expert fishermen.
DOWN FOR THE SHOW.
I’m going down to the Show again,
As I go down every year;
The lambs are tailed and the crops are in,
And there’s time to spare up here.
I’m going down to the roaring streets,
To the glare of the restless nights,
To the scream of a thousand speeding cars
And the winking traffic-lights.
I’m going down to the Show again,
With its rows of straw-strewn stalls,
To its grand parades and its judging rings,
And the programme vendors’ calls;
To the towering maize and the sheaves of
hay,
And the fruit too fine to eat,
To the raucous cries of the sideshow men
And the engines’ throbbing beat.
I’m going down to the Show again,
But it’s not to see the Show,
And there’s half a score of friends of mine
That’ll do the same, I know.
For we don’t see all of the things we should
Or learn what we ought to know,
But we drink the health of the mates we
knew
And the good times years ago.
VICTORIA.
A.G. BURNET.


“Col. Fitzguzzlepipe”: “Dinkum’s”
reference to the Drydup River (B. 8/9/’37)
recalls a remarkable experience which
befell me on its banks. Pausing on a
small clay promontory I gazed across the
river and saw several turkeys, but before
1 could take aim I noticed five geese fly-
ing overhead. While pondering as to
which I would bag I heard ducks quack-
ing upstream, and a moment later the
cluck of a waterhen downstream assailed
my ears. I decided on the turkeys, took
aim and fired. Unwittingly I had rested
the muzzle of my 12-bore in the clay,
which had dried and blocjced both
barrels, so when I pulled the trigger the
shooter exploded. The obstructing clay
whizzed across the stream and killed
three turkeys, one barrel flew skywards
and brought down a couple of geese, the
other shot upstream and exterminated
“ Listen , Bill—Were we anywhere near a circus last night?”
several Donalds, while the stock hurtled
downstream and bagged a waterhen. The
force of the explosion hurled me into the
stream, and as I fell a heavy button from
my coat stunned a ’roo which sat back
on a couple of rabbits. When I clam-
bered from the river my waders held a
trapped 41b. trout.
* * * *
“Freak”: Several ornithologists have
expressed surprise that any self-respecting
fowl with an ounce of brains should be
taken in by the cuckoo and imposed
upon to rear that alien young. What’s
queer about it? The mother bird hatches
that egg, and, as something she helped
to produce, she looks upon it as her own
legitimate offspring. The hen that brings
“ ’Spose y' ’aven’t seen a coupla two-tooth ewes along ’ere?”
out a clutch of ducklings never manifests
dislike to what she may privately regard
as queer progeny. Also, a mare loves
her mule progeny with all the zeal she
would show to the offspring of a clean-
bred sire. The thing isn’t of her race,
though she has helped to produce it. The
same with a merino ewe which may
throw a black lamb. Don’t try to tell
me that alien is shunned. And even
when atavism plays a dirty trick in the
human sphere, does the mother treat that
child as some would advocate the little
dicky-bird should handle the cuckoo
chick?
* * Jfc
“Buzfuz”: “Talkin’ about timber-
‘lifters,’ ” said old Harry, “up ’ome was
th’ place fer them. Once we ’ad a pile
of fresh-cut ironbark in th’ bottom pad-
dick —till some thievin’ cows got to it. I
set traps for ’em, but they was too slick
an’ they kept goin’ orf until there’s on’y
one blanky log left. I was determined
they wouldn’t git that, so I took a coupla
blankets an’ a gunful of saltpetre an’
sat on that log all night. I must’ve dozed
off, but I wakes up sharp just on dawn,
still sittin’ on what I thought was the
log. Yair, them blankards could lift
timber all right—they’d pinched th’ wood
an’ left me sittin’ on th’ bark!”
“C.C.C.”: Galahs are restless bed-
fellows. At sundown on the Macquarie
River (N.S.W.) the mobs flock in to the
big river gums. They arrive in a chorus
of screams and, with clatter and shriek,
crowd in among the foliage on the heavy
branches lower down. For a little while
peace reigns, then a raucous
squawk announces that Polly
has sidled upwards along her
chosen branch, and, encounter-
ing her Joe, has awarded him
a vicious nip. Joe hastily
scrambles farther out, and the
perverse Polly follows. Mean-
while, as the evening wears on,
all over the tree other Pollys
and Joes are doing the same —with
chatter and occasional yells the mob
works gradually outwards. Eventually
the heavy limbs are left behind —the mob
can go no farther. Then, swaying with
every breeze that blows, at last they
settle down to “rest” on the tiny outer-
most twigs.
* * * *
“Scrib”: Long and careful observation
of the black-and-yellow cockatoos among
Westralia’s coastal ranges has convinced
me that the funereal fowls appear not
before, but during, heavy rain. In the
region mentioned, flocks of 20 are
common. Unlike their sulphur-crested
brethren, who are graminivorous, they
are insectivorous, preferring above all
else the fat, yellow grubs found in timber,
Assiduously searching for these they find
the bark and wood, when saturated by
rain, an easier prospect than when dry
and hard.
* * * *
“C.V.S.”: Swallows winter further
south than N.S.W. (B. 18/8/”37). I have
known isolated pairs to remain through-
out the year in the Speck, and King Is.
(Bass Strait) is the winter home of an
appreciable number. Author Dr. Halli-
day Sutherland says that the reason for
migration is a mystery, but it is con-
trolled by food supply, and, though the
few wing-feeding birds that remain
through the winter may find enough
food, migration will always be necessary
for the great majority.
* # * *
“Smooth”: The foxy of to-day (B.
11/8/’37), including the aristocrat of the
show bench, is as game as his ancestor
was. I have proved it from experience
with my three “smooths” —a dog and
two bitches. All three have distinguished
themselves on the show-bench and are
representatives of well-known strains. Far
from being “useless, tykes,” they are
specialists in the hunting-field, and faith-
ful friends as well. Each will tackle a
fox without flinching. The bitch which
has been the more successful on the
show-bench is particularly aggressive,
and Joe Blake holds no terrors for her.
If “Pincher,” entirely at his own risk, is
game enough to roam about my prem-
ises at night, he has my full permission to
do so.
* * * *
“X.X.”: Interested to hear how
‘’Orwell” (B. 1/ 9 / ’37) was done by abos.
who sold him a walking-stick and pen-
handle of ringed gidya which turned out
to be common timber veneered with the
rare wood. Highly specialised and ex-
pensive machinery is necessary for the
white man before he can cut the paper-
thin veneers from cabinet-woods. Also
the veneer has to be applied at great heat
and under tremendous pressure, with the
addition of a special cement. If “O.”
can lead us to the abo. factories where
these difficult occupations are carried
out, anthropologists and the cabinet-
making trade will be eternally grateful
to him.
* % $ . $
“Tamornie”: I have often wondered
whether an old Queensland dog-scalper’s
method of poisoning foxes would be suc-
cessful down south. He mixed his
strychnine in fat, rolled it into balls and
thrust them just below ground surface
in holes punched with a stick. In a
gunny bag tied to his saddle he carried
a number of small tins, and when the
bait was set placed one of these full of
water about 15 yards on each side. He
held that the poison acted quickly when
mixed with fat, and that the dingo wel-
comed the first drop of water he came
across, with the result that the carcasses
were found handy to where the baits
were set. He invariably collected for a
good tally of scalps.
*** ■ *
“R.W.D.”: Sometimes think that there
are more creatures in the bush than are
dreamed of in our works on natural
history. I remember a particularly un-
attractive jimjam the cat bought on to
my verandah one night. The head, furry
body and leathery wings suggested a
bat, but it also possessed a hairless tail,
curled over its back scorpion fashion.
The body was about 4in. long. Tabby
didn’t seem to want it when she got a
good look at it, and it escaped, making
a fiendish metallic clicking as it climbed
a verandah post and took off into the
night. A neighbor’s cat also caught one,
was bitten by it, and died in a few
minutes. Any Aboliar met the species'?
PROSPECTING.
(Old style and new.)
I’ve worked the sands of Byron Bay, and wan-
dered on through Drake;
I’ve scraped the rocks Nymboida way without a
decent stake.
The creeks and crags of Yugilbar, the depths
of Baker’s Creek,
I’ve stabbed ’neath some unlucky star in weather
cold and bleak.
From out the mud of Puddledock, with its
attendant snows,
Through Gulgong to the golden rock o’er which
the Turon flows,
With eye attuned ’mid slime and grit I’ve
sought the metal rare.
And now I read they’re seeking it from ’way up
in the air.
From Pambula to Gundagai, through Cobar to
the Hill,
Where’er I sought for treasure 1 found it
elusive still.
Past Gympie’s wild and woolly fields to Ravens-
wood up north,
I’ve specked close by where Brilliant yields from
Charters Towers came forth.
On Ballarat and Bendigo, and back of Castle-
maine,
Round Tumbarumba, ’mid the snow, my search
was mostly vain;
Tetulpa was a tucker job, the Territory bare,
Where now they’re finding reefs, I learn, from
’way up in the air.
I’ve legged it o’er the Nullarbor, tried Norse-
man for a while,
And been where willy-willies roar around the
Golden Mile.
I've roamed Lefroy from shore to shore, and
rigged my shaker’s stand
Where Burgess, grim and gaunt, looked o’er
Coolgardie’s sin and sand.
From Day Dawn, over Youanmi, to Sandstone
and Black Range,
I’ve sought gold unavailingly, and now I find
it strange
How I with others, nose to earth, 9ould miss
the metal rare,
While flying coves, ’twixt here and Perth, can
speck it from the air.
When Hargreaves roamed the Turon through,
and found its hidden gold,
He missed, by just a mile or two, a hill of
wealth untold.
Where Ford and Bayley fossicked, too, they
missed Kalgoorlie’s hoard,
Where Hannan, finder of it, drew a blank for
his reward.
While Frost and Speakman, pioneers of North
Coolgardie’s fields,
Found little through the weary years among its
golden yields.
Did aught of these still with us dwell, they’d
grin a bit, I’ll swear,
And wonder with me howinell they speck it
from the air.
N.S.W.
ORAB.


Five reasons why a
private executor may
prove unsatisfactory
1. He offers no security.
*2. He may leave the Country.
3. He may not live to carry out the Trusts.
4. He gives his spare time only to the
administration of the Estate.
5. He probably does not know the duties of
an Executor.
The Trustees Executors and Agency Company
Limited offers ample security, cannot leave the
Country, goes on for ever, devotes its whole
time to the carrying out of the duties and has
acted as Executor and Trustee for nearly 6o
years.
It is better and safer to appoint a corporate
trustee and ensure perpetual fidelity to the
terms of your Will.
An appointment may be arranged at any time.
THE TRU§T11S EXECUTORS
S. AGENCY COMPANY LTD.
(Incorporated in Victoria in 1878.)
THE OLDEST TRUSTEE COMPANY IN AUSTRALIA
412 Collins Street, Melbourne ... 1-5 Bligh Street, Sydney
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves and Undivided Profits.
£955,805/10/8. Trust Assets under Administration, £29,399,725.
£20.000 has been lodged with the Colonial Treasurer of New South
Wales ami £10,000 with the Treasurer of Victoria as guarantees for
the proper Administration of Estates.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman),
Maj.-Gen. Sir Brudenell White, K.C.B.. K.C.M.G., K.C.V.O., D.S.O.;
R. O. Blackwood, D. Stuart Murray, John Fordyce,
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G.; Sir Lennon Raws, C.B.E.
General Manager: W. Sydney Jones; Manager: K. M. Hughes.
N.S.W. DIRECTORS:
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G. (Chairman),
W. D. Stewart, R. T. Hilder.
N.S.W, Manager: T W. Russell French.
▼
T2.16
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
W. R. Carpenter and Co.
To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1927.. 85,231 8 p.c. = 16,499 18,732 56,000
Investment reserve ( £4000) disappears.. 52,000
1928.. 34,911 8 p.c. = 18,407 16,584 68.584
1929.. 43,534 8 „ „ 21,367 21,867 90,451
Endowment account, £l5OO .. .. 88.951
1930.. 43,680 8 p.c. = 23,866 19,814 108,765
1931.. 37,713 8 „ „ 24,133 13,580 122.345
Inner reserves disclosed, £86,000 . . 208,345
1932.. 33,631 8 p.c. = 24,133 9,498 217,843
1933.. 34,105 8„ „ 24,133 9,972 227,815
1934.. 36,391 8 „ „ 24,133 12,258 240,073
Renewal reserve disappears, £28,075.. 211,998
1935.. 43,685 10 p.c. = 39,600 4,085 216,083
Investment reserve disappears, £10,000.. 206,083
1936.. 68,079 8 p.c. = 47,362 20,717 226,800
Superannuation fund, £2500 . . .. 224,300
To inner reserves, £19,469 . . . . 204,831
Share premiums, £10,375 .. .. 215,206
1937.. 100,585 9 p.c. = 60,616 39,969 255,175
Superannuation fund, £3OOO .. .. 252,175
To inner reserves, £30,535 . . .. 221,640
This 23-year-old island-trading, ship-
ping and airways business, etc., came
through the slump with scarcely more
than a quiver, the steady flow of 8 p.c.
divs. being uninterrupted, despite the col-
lapse of copra and other prices. Also,
there is. more wheat in the ear than the
eye can see. In 1932 £86,000 of inner
reserves tvas disclosed ; two years later
£28,075 of the visible accumulation was
deducted from fixed assets, thus off-
setting the total book value of the co.’s
coastal shipping, and no less than
£60,004 has been pushed under the
blanket since ; all this in addition to the
ordinary allowance for depreciation, etc.
Of the £673,500 of paid capital at
June 30 last, £371,833 (55.2 p.c.) has been
gathered since the close of accounts in
1933. The new money was used to estab-
lish the co.’s own Australia-New Guinea-
Britain shipping service—two 9000-ton
Diesel-driven vessels were bought for the
purpose, thus avoiding the extra cost of
transhipping copra—to increase the
co.’s aerial fleet, buy the shares in On
Chong and Co., Gilbert Islands, and ac-
quire the assets of Cocoanut Products,
Ltd., including plantations and a desic-
cated coconut factory. The 100,000 £1
pref. shares in W. R. Carpenter (Solomon
Islands), Ltd., in which the parent owns
all the 150,000 ords., were also bought,
and so were the ords. in Brown and
Joske, merchants, Fiji (paid capital
£69,440 in 20,000 7 p.c. prefs. and
49,440 ords.). To make insurance a family
matter, another offshoot, Southern
Pacific Insurance, Ltd., was formed ; the
parent owns £31,250 of its £43,750 of
paid capital, on which 6 p.c. was paid
last year.
During the 12 months covered by the
latest accounts, the co.’s own trade and
that of business recently acquired con-
tinued to expand, a subsidiary, Mandated
Airlines, Ltd., was formed to consoli-
date the co.’s aviation interests in New
Guinea, a controlling interest was
bought in Bulolo Hotel, Ltd., and Wau
Hotel, Ltd., on the New Guinea gold-
fields, more shares were taken up in the
insurance co., and a new inter-island
steamer was built, making the ninth vessel
in the coastal fleet. Two of these vessels,
together valued at £20,000, were lost
during the volcanic eruption at Rabaul,
where the co.’s wharf and foreshore
buildings were also damaged. Still, the
chairman says, the co. suffered little loss
here that was not covered by insurance,
and earnings aren’t likely to be affected.
To replace the vessels lost, the Coom-
bar (580 tons) was bought from the
N.C.S.N. Co. shortly before the close of
accounts.
After striking off £11,242 for deprecia-
tion, etc., declared net earnings were
£32,506 better at £100,585, or 14.9 p.c.
on capital as against 11.5, 11.4, 12, 11.3,
11.1, 12.5, 14.6 and 20 p.c. back to 1929.
The div. was lifted a point, making it
9 p.c., the final being at the rate of 10
p.c. p.a. After sending £3OOO to the
staff fund, £36,969 of the year’s profit
remained, of which £17,535 was ear-
marked for renewals, etc., £lO,OOO for
losses due to volcanic eruption, and
£3OOO for contingencies. The practice
has been to whisk these appropriations
to inner reserves.
As for the current term, the overseas
shipping section of the business is to be
expanded, and the Federal Government
has accepted the co.’s tender for the
2520-mile air-mail service between Syd-
ney and Rabaul. The subsidy is £65,572,
spread over five years.
At 48s. 6d. (435. 3d. a year ago) the
pound shares return 4.1 p.c. on a 10 p.c.
div. basis, with possibilities. Visibly the
cover is 265. 7d. in net tangibles.
Here is the position so far as balance-
sheet figures disclose it:
1931. 1934. 1936. 1937.
Paid capital. . £301,667 £339.789 £644,081 £673,500
Liabilities .. 7,333 18,071 108,412 104,287
Shipping property 16,075 28,155 1 367 610 347,701
1’ reeholds, plant, etc. 750 005 j ’
Investments,
etc 118,114 140,618 348,126 393,100
Stocks .. 1,238 15 69,479 101,612
Debtors, etc. 261,774 440,707 185,425 168,955
Cash, etc. . . 45,460 33,808 55,210
The addition of £29,419 to capital, which
brought with it £10,375 of share pre-
miums, may have some connection with
the growth of the co.’s investments (up
£44,974). On shipping and other prop-
erty £19,855 more was written off than
was spent. Excluding investments, the
improvement in the more or less liquid
surplus (£221,490) was £41,190.
Winchcombe, Carson, Ltd.
Towards He-
June, Profit. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1927.. 54,549 10 p.c. = 34,427 20,122 157,012
Written off, £6OOO 151,012
1928.. 56,073 10 p.o. = 39,820 16,253 167,265
Reserves capitalised, £50,000 .. 117,265
1929.. 59,783 10 p.o. = 49,986 9,797 127,062
1930.. 43,653 7 „ „ 35,000 8,653 135,715
1931.. 37,730 6 „ „ 30,000 7,730 143,445
1932.. 39,162 6 „ „ 30,000 9,162 152,607
1933.. 41.017 6 „ „ 30,000 11,017 163,624
1934.. 48,638 7 „ „ 35,000 13,638 177,262
1935.. 46,034 7 „ „ 35,000 11,034 188,296
1936.. 57,884 8 „ „ 40,000 17,884 206,180
1937.. 65,089 8 „ „ 40,000 25,089 231,269
This co. is in the woolbroking, pastoral
finance and agency business in N. S.
Wales and Queensland, and its connec-
tions continue to expand. A bigger clip
and sale of more livestock, both at
better prices, and larger turnover in the
hides, produce and machinery depart-
ments, all contributed to the increase of
£7205 in last year’s declared net earnings.
The average per bale was £2O 14s. lOd.
(up £3 ss, 5d.) Sydney, and £2l 14s. 6d.
(up £3 9s. 3d.) Brisbane. In the two
centres combined the number of bales
auctioned by all brokers showed an in-
crease of 11.2 p.c., thanks mainly to the
better season in Queensland. The number
of bales sold by Winchcombe Carson
increased by 27,833, or 13.2 p.c.:
Wocl
(bales). Sheep. Cattle.
1944 .. 101,579 307,813 18,764
1920 .. 137,258 321,140 15,357
1925 .. 117,550 232,501 32,676
1930 .. 182,221 485,958 37,243
1932 .. 214,126 481,507 21,901
1934 . . 206.277 442,078 20,447
1935 . . 233,840 426,674 25,457
1936 . . 210,640 365,724 28,736
1937 . . 238,473 458,439 32,725
The increase in the number of sheep
and cattle put under the hammer was
92,715 and 3989 respectively.
After rebating 20 p.c. of the commis-
sion on all wool sold, striking off £3541
for depreciation and providing for taxa-
tion and other contingencies, the net
result was 13 p.c. on capital, compared
with 11.5, 9.2, 9.7, 8.2, 7.8, 7.3, 8.7 and
11.9 p.c. back to 1929. The div. was
kept at 8 p.c.
The year’s better trading is further
reflected in balance-sheet figures:
1928. 1935. 1936. 1937.
Capital . . £414,018 £500,000 £500,000 £500,000
Liabilities . . 553,490 387,234 431,205 510,121*
Freeholds . . 199,965 200,624 200,624 200,624
Socks } 31 >656 42,119 45,078 {
Advances, etc. 899,365 800,226 898,330 1,001,552
Investments and
cash .. 21,865 11,321 11,321 11,321
Consignments 1.916 41,240 4,531 310
* Including £6190 share moneys in advance.
To carry an extra £103,222 of advances,
the co. leant upon sundry creditors for
a further £72,726, or £503,931 in all.
There was thus 13s. 9d. of outside money
at risk in the business for every pound
belonging to shareholders at June 30.
Still, the co.’s experience during the
slump showed that a substantial part of
advances was flexible. The year’s im-
provement in the more or less liquid sur-
plus (£509,252) was £26,275.
As for the current season, the imme-
diate outlook is for a heavier clip, and,
though they may not come up to early
anticipations, prices promise to be satis-
factory, subject to international develop-
ments, of course.
On July 16 shareholders were offered
100,000 new £1 ords., one for five, at
par, payable 10s. July 24 and the bal-
ance as required. When fully paid, the
issue will make paid capital £600,000, on
which 10 p.c. would call for £5089 less
profit than was claimed last vear. The
fully-paids at 355. return 4.5 p.c. on an
8 p.c. div. basis. On the same basis, the
contribs. at 225. 6d. yield 3.5 p.c., or 4.4
p.c. when another ss. per share is called,
and 4.9 p.c. when fully paid. Including
uncalled capital, the cover is 275. Bd. per
share in net tangibles.
Queensland Brewery, Ltd. (Brisbane)
Dividends and Written
June, Profit. Dividend Tax. Off.t Reserves.
£ £ £ £
lfi'27. . 40,554 10 p.c. = 29,885 2,169 73,500
1928.. 41,145 10 „ „ 29,885 2,760 82,000
1929.. 44,058 12$ „ ~37,356 1,702 87,000
1930.. 39,674 10 „ „ 29,885 3,789 93,000
1931.. 31,167 8 ~ „ 23,908 7,259 93.000
Contingency reserve included, £40,973.. 133,973
To Re-
nerves.
1932.. 21,365 7 p.c. = 20,920 445 134,418
1933.. 20,924 7 ~ „ 20,920 4 134,422
3934.. 22,406 7 ~ „ 20,920 1,486 135,908
Pref. Old.
54 p.c. 7 p.c.
1935.. 30,205 8,613 20,920 732 136.640
1936.. 33.326 10,957 20,920 3,449 138,089
1937.. 48,417 10,957 36,973 487 138,576
fAdded to contingency reserve.
Between them, this co. and Castlemaine-
Perkins supply most of the beer con-
sumed in Queensland, especially in the
thirsty west and the southern portions of
the State. For the eight years to the
close of accounts in 1930 divs. averaged
10.9 p.c. Slump brought the rate down
to 7 p.c. in ’32, and it has remained
steady since, despite continued improve-
ment in conditions generally and expand-
ing turnover. That is because large
sums have been spent in buying up hotel
freeholds, and it is difficult to make new
money earn at the same rate as old.
Still, much of the larger turnover has
been thus anchored, additions and im-
provements have been made to plant, and
new brews of draught and bottled beer,
reported to be popular, have been placed
on the market, all of which augurs well
for the future, subject, of course, to
seasonal and other developments.
Since the close of accounts in 1932,
£894,580 net has been added to the book
value of fixed assets, and £27,512 to
stocks, while debtors’ balances have been
reduced by £40,601. To meet the out-
lay, £448,849 of fresh capital was
gathered (£199,234 of it carries a fixed
cumulative p.c.), and £417,099 net
was added to the outside debt:
1932. 1935. 1936. 1937.
Paid capital. . £298,851 £498,085 £498,085 £747,700
Creditors . . 97,379 280,473 540,171 514,478
Fixed assets. . 286.433 709,246 959,782 1.181,013
Stocks . . 77,055 93.719 100,212 104,567
Book debts . . 167,862 117,950 120,560 127,261
Cash, etc. . . 8,265 10,223 11,731 12,586
During the last term, more hotels were
bought, and “a fair amount of money"’
was spent on improvements to the
brewery, where 20 new glass-lined tanks
are now being provided for storage of
beer. The net outlay on fixed assets was
£221,231, to meet which, and reduce the
debt by £25,693, shareholders (prefs. and
ords. combined) were offered and quickly
oversubscribed 249,615 new ords. at par.
Of the £514,478 coming to sundry credi-
tors, £475,945 is secured. When the
books closed, the amount coming to
sundry creditors exceeded more or less
liquids by £270,064, an improvement of
£37,604 over the twelvemonth.
Besides a much bigger turnover in
draught beer, the year’s sales in the
wine and spirit department increased by
over 66 p.c., and the output of bottled
beer showed “a remarkable increase.”
After providing for contingencies, the
declared net result Sprang £15,091, reach-
ing £48,417, or a trifle more than the
pref. div. and 7 p.c. to the ords. called
for. The immediate outlook favors im-
provement in earnings, but the board
might like to further reduce the outside
debt and strengthen the co.’s shock-
absorbers, visible or otherwise, before it
lifts the div. beyond 7 p.c.
The market prices the ords. at 265. 9d.
as against 235. 6d. a year ago. At the
higher figure the return is 5.2 p.c. on a
7 p.c. div. basis. The prefs. at 225. 9d.
yield 4.8 p.c. The net tangible cover is
£4 Bs. lid. prefs. and 255. ords.
Victoria Palace, Ltd. (Melb.)
To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1927.. 19,760 20 p.c. = 18,602 1158 16,584
Premiums on shares, £17,600 .. 34,184
1928.. 19,975 17$ p.c. = 19,015 960 35,144
Premiums on shares, £30,800 .. 65,944
1929.. 24,432 15 p.c. = 21,010 3422 69,'366
Premiums on shares, £4400 •• 73,766
June,
1930*. 11,887 15 p.c. = 11,770 117 73,883
Premiums on shares, £BBOO .. 82.683
Written off, £6OOO .. •• •• 76,683
1931.. 14,275 10 p.c. = 17,380 73,578
1932.. 13,064 7„ ~ 12,320 744 74,322
1933.. 20,929 10 „ „ 17,600 3329 77,651
Written off, £5O .. .. •• 77,601
1934.. 18,251 10 p.c. = 17,596 655 78,2*6
Share premiums, £BBOO .. • • 87,056
1935.. 19,717 10 p.c. = 18,607 1110 88,166
Bonus scrip issued, £48,400 .. 39,766
Special depreciation, £20,400 .. 19,366
1936.. 22,305 8 p.c. = 19,360 1 IQ4 .- 91311
Staff fund, £lOOO S
1937.. 25,578 9 p.c. = 21,780 1 979 g 94,109
Staff fund, £lOOO j
* Half-year.
This Melbourne “dry” hotel, which
■ began as one of the coffee palaces of the
’eighties, caters largely for country visi-
tors. During the 12 months covered by
the latest accounts, the number of guests
registered (approximately 250,000) was
8 p.c. more than for the preceding term,
accommodation being taxed to capacity
during peak periods, thanks to better
(Continued on page 24.)


SALE OF SHARES
SALE OF SHARES. SALE OF SHARES.
IN THE
AUSTRALIAN GAS LIGHT COMPANY
30,000 "A" SHARES OF £6 EACH
in the Australian Gas Light Company, in Lots of 16 with the option of
taking a lesser number.
FOR AUCTION SALE
IN THE ROOMS OF RICHARDSON AND WRENCH, LIMITED,
92 Pitt Street, Sydney, on
MONDAY, 27th SEPTEMBER, 1937,
COMMENCING AT 10 a.tn.
Terms and Conditions announced at the Sale, or obtainable on application to the
Auctioneers, Members of the Stock Exchange or the Australian Gas Light Company.
30,000 “A” Shares of £6 each in the Australian Gas Light Company.
RICHARDSON & WRENCH, LIMITED, AUCTIONEERS,
92 PITT STREET. SYDNEY. (674).
BALANCE-SHEET
OF THE
Commonwealth Banh of Hustralla
AT 30th JUNE, 1937.
LIABILITIES.
102,968,794 6 0
Contingent Liabilities—
Outstanding Credits per
Contra 681,143 4 5
Total General Bank and Rural
Credits Departments .. ..103,649,937 10 5
Note Issue Department .. .. 55,536,071 10 5
£159,186,009 0 10
ASSETS.
£ s. d.
Coin, Bullion and Cash Balances 1,143,765 2 8
Australian Notes 4,366,385 10 0
Money at Short Call in London 37,861,821 18 6
Funds held temporarily In
London on Account of
Conversion Loan .. .. 2,475,000 0 0
Short Term Loans in Australia 4,589,934 16 7
Investments —
British, Colonial and Govern-
ment Securities .. .. 8,885,375 2 5
Commonwealth Government
Securities 27,494,086 6 7
Bills Receivable in London and
Remittances in Transit .. 3,614,861 3 0
Bills Discounted, Loans and
Advances to Customers,
£159,186.009 0 10
PROFIT AND LOSS
s. d.
£
General Banking Department—
To Reserve Fund 90,270 5 11
„ National Debt Sinking Fund 90,270 5 11
Rural Credits Department—
To Reserve Fund 13,891 11 9
„ Development Fund .. .. 13,891 11 9
Note Issue Department—
To Commonwealth Treasury .. 409,312 19 6
£617,636 14 10
s. d
£
By Profits for Half-year ended
30th June, 1937 —
„ Banking Business 180,540 11 10
„ Rural Credits Department ... 27,783 3 6
„ Note Issue Department .. 409,312 19 (
£617,636 14 1
Dr.
RESERVE FUND. Cr.
To Balance
£ s. d.
2,418,536 19 1
£2,418,536 19 1
£ s d.
2,328,266 13 2
By Balance
„ Transfer from Profit and
Loss Account of one-half
of the Net Profits of Bank-
ing Business 90,270 5 11
£2,418,536 19 1
e certify that the above Balance-sheet, com
piled from Statements furnished by the seyeral
offices of the Bank, is true and correct.
E. B. RICHARDSON, Acting Secretary.
G. F. DICKINSON, Chief Accountant.
For and on behalf of the Board.
E. C. RIDDLE,
Governor.
SYDNEY, 17th August, 1937.
Note Issue Department.
LIABILITIES.
£ s. d.
Notes in Circulation 47,034,116 10 0
Reserve for Notes not Presented 19,250 0 0
Special Reserve—
Premium on Gold Sold .. 7,752,900 19 0
Other Liabilities 729,744 1 5
£55,536,071 10 5
ASSETS.
£
s. d.
Gold and English Sterling
Reserve .. .. 16,011,662 11 11
Debentures and other Securities 38,559,294 15 4
Other Assets 965,114 3 2
£55,536,071 10 5
Certified Correct.
BERTRAND LATHAM,
Secretary, Note Issue Department.
G. F. DICKINSON, Chief Accountant.
For and on behalf of the Board.
E. C. RIDDLE,
Governor.
SYDNEY, 17th August, 1937.
Coiwnoitwsaltb Savings ®anft of Australia
BALANCE-SHEET AT 30th JUNE, 1937.
LIABILITIES.
£ s. d.
Reserve Fund 2,409,556 6 8
Depositors’ Balances 137,132,092 8 4
Contingency Account and other
Liabilities 6,179,632 5 4
£145,721,281 0 4
ASSETS.
£ s. d.
Coin, Cash Balances and
Money at Short Call .. 18,385,871 2 0
Australian Notes 178,825 10 0
Government Securities .. .. 91,899,837 1 6
Securities of Municipalities and
other Public Authorities 31,050,062 16 10
Other Assets 3,287,652 9 1
Bank Premises .. 919,032 011
£145,721,281 0 4
Dr.
Cr.
PROFIT AND LOSS
£ s. d.
To Savings Bank Reserve Fund 75,359 6 4
„ National Debt Sinking Fund 75,359 6 4
£150,718 12 8
£
s. d.
By Profit for half-year ended
30th June, 1937, after pro-
vision for payments amounting
to £ 106,793/13/9 due to State
Authorities under Savings
Bank Amalgamation Agree-
ments 150,718 12 8
£150,718 12 8
RESERVE FUND.
To Balance
£ s. d.
2,409,556 6 8
£2,409,556 6 8
By Balance
„ Transfer from Profit and
Loss Account of one-half
of the Net Profits ..
£ s. d.
2,334,197 0 4
75,359 6 4
£2,409,556 6 8
We certify that the above Balance-sheet, com-
piled from Statements furnished by the several
offices of the Bank, Is true and correct.
E. B. RICHARDSON, Acting Secretary.
G. F. DICKINSON, Chief Accountant.
For and on behalf of the Board.
E. C. RIDDLE,
Governor.
SYDNEY, 17th August, 1937.
The usual Certificates of the Auditor-General of the Commonwealth as to the correctness
of the above accounts have been given.
ABRIDGED PROSPECTUS OF
OSMIRIDIUM (Tasmania) NO LIABILITY
(To be registered under Part 11. of the Victorian Companies Act.)
CAPITAL £20,000
Divided into 50,000 Shares of 8/- each.
40,000 Shares are offered for Public Subscription—payable 2/- per share on applica-
tion and 2/- per share on allotment, the balance in calls of 3d. per share per
month if and when required.
10,000 Shares fully paid to 8/- are to be allotted to the Vendor Syndicate, £2OOO
to be paid on the exercising of the option, and a Royalty of £3OOO payable
out of Osmiridium won at the rate of 10 per cent, of the Gross Yield.
50,000
PROVISIONAL DIRECTORS:
E. F. S. England, Solicitor, 352 Collins Street, Melbourne.
C. A. Galletly, Gentleman, “Locksley,” St. Hilda Road, Melbourne.
A. 11. McDonald, Engineer, 566 Bridge Road, Richmond.
H. F. Thureau, Gentleman, C.T.A. Club, Flinders Street, Melbourne.
BANKERS:
THE NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRALIA, LTD., Stock Exchange Branch, Collins Street, Melbourne.
SOLICITORS:
Messrs. COY & ENGLAND, 352 Collins Street, Melbourne.
AUDITOR:
F. McNaughton, 271 Collins Street, Melbourne.
LEGAL MANAGER and REGISTERED OFFICE (Pro tern.):
HARRY S. MARKS, 524 Collins Street, Melbourne.
OBJECTS:
The Company is being formed (inter alia) for the purpose of acquiring from the Adams River
Osmiridium Syndicate No Liability all its right, title and interest in the Consolidated Mining Claims
Numbers 64, 65, 66, 67, 68, 69 and Lease Applications Numbers 11810, 11811, each containing 40 acres, and
all situated at Adamsfield, in the State of Tasmania.
WORK DONE:
A vast amount of work has been done. For practically the full length of the claims, the top of the
lode has been sluiced to a depth of from 10 to 20 feet. A shaft has been sunk to a depth of 47 feet.
A tunnel driven from the northern end for a distance of 240 feet. A tram line has been laid for a
distance of 300 feet from the face of the tunnel to the Battery House. Buildings’ have been erected, and
a water race has been constructed for approximately two miles.
PLANT:
Mr. Robert Cameron, the Company's Engineer, has compiled a list of the Machinery and Plant that
he considers • suitable for the Company’s work, which, with the plant already on the ground, will be
sufficient for all purposes. The cost of new plant and equipment has been estimated not to exceed
£lB5O. With these additions the cost of production will be very low.
FUTURE WORKINGS:
It is proposed to continue the tunnel a further 100 feet to intercept the lode at a point 70 feet, where
good values were obtained at the surface, and 33 feet below the shaft prospected by Mr. Cameron. This
will give from 70 feet to 80 feet of backs for a distance of 900 feet, giving approximately 30,000 tons
of ore above the tunnel level. Immediately the tunnel is completed, the mine will be in production, and
should give highly payable returns.
INVESTIGATIONS OF THE AREA:
The Osmiridium area was first inspected by Mr. C. J. McLennan in February, 1937. A Syndicate
was formed to thoroughly investigate and test the area. Mr. McLennan was again sent to Adamsfield in
April, 1937, and did a great amount of testing in the Open Cut Shafts, and in July of this year Mr.
Robert Cameron, Engineer, was also sent to the area. Both these gentlemen have made reports.
EXTRACTS FROM MR. McLENNAN’S REPORT:
I proceeded to sink the shaft seven feet. I prospected every bucket of lode material and obtained
payable ore right through the sinking, which shows dish prospects to be worth from 15dwt. to loz. per ton.
I put a cut in towards the hanging wall for a length of five feet by two feet wide; I obtained good
ore, a ton of which I have bagged and shipped to Melbourne for bulk test. There is rich ore still going
out towards the hanging wall, also north and south. I have tried the lode in several places and dish
prospects prove that it is a rich lode and should be a good dividend producer.
It has been proved for a length of 1550 feet to carry payable ore. The lode, in my opinion, is a
most promising ore, and is rich in Osmiridium and will return dividends for many years to come.
» (Sgd.) C. J. MeLENNAN, Mining Engineer.
The ton of ore referred to in the above extracts duly arrived in Melbourne, and was tested in the
following manner:—
Two bags of Osmiridium ore weighing 2cwt. were tested by the Melbourne Technical College, the
result showing that the ore averaged over loz. of Osmiridium to the ton. The balance. 17ewt., was
tested on Bth June, 1937, by crushing with battery in the yards of the Victorian Mines Department, South
Melbourne, under the supervision of officials from the Mines Department and a representative gathering of
mining men. The result of the test was that 16dwt. 22gr. were recovered from the 17ewt. of ore.
EXTRACT FROM MR. CAMERON’S REPORT:
I made an inspection of the area, and tested the lode as outlined below. In my opinion, the mine
has great possibilities, and should prove a highly profitable venture. The lode runs in a general north
and south direction, and is of a varying width, from six to ten feet. It has been proved Osmiridium
bearing for 2000 feet in length by sluicing and shaft sinking.
An alluvial area not exceeding 5 acres immediately west and downstream from the lode is reported to
have yielded Osmiridium to the value of £50,000. No Osmiridium has been found east of this line, thus
showing that the rich alluvial deposits were shed from the lode.
On the claims and part of the lease held by this Syndicate, 1350 feet has been proved by sluicing for
a depth of from 10 to 20 feet, and a shaft sunk to a depth of 40 feet. I took six samples of 11 pounds
each from across the bottom of the shaft, which, after being crushed and carefully weighed, averaged
Sdwt. per ton throughout.
I estimate the ore actually in sight at approximately 45,000 tons; this at an average of Bdwt. per
ton, and the present price of Osmiridium being 20/- per pennyweight, will give a value of £360,000.
A water race is held by the Syndicate, and ample water power is available, which will provide
economical production.
(Sgd.) ROBERT CAMERON, Mining Engineer.
ASSAYS:
The Tasmanian Mines Department has made several assays and tests of the Syndicate’s Osmiridium
ores, which have disclosed very rich values, going from lOdwt. to 250 z. to the ton. Particulars of these
assays and tests may be seen at the Company’s office. The Victorian Mines Department has also made
assays of the same ore, corroborating the high value of the ores.
OSMIRIDIUM:
OSMIRIDIUM is one of the most valuable rare metals, and was discovered comparatively recently
(in the year 1803) by the scientist, Tennant.
It is a metal which occurs in association with Platinum, in the form of an Osmiridium alloy. It is
the heaviest substance known, its specific gravity being 22.477.
The sources of origin of Osmiridium are three countries, namely, Tasmania, South Africa and Russia.
Osmiridium, being one of the hardest of metals, is used as an alloy for Platinum and is also being
extensively used in the manufacture of electrical appliances, and in the wearing parts of scientific
instruments, but the most popular and well-known use of the metal is for tipping fountain pens and
other pens.
There is a great scarcity of Osmiridium in the .world, and such scarcity is becoming very pronounced
from year to year, and the consequent demand for this valuable material is acute and increasing. The
manufacturers of fountain pens will readily pay a higher price for Tasmanian Osmiridium than any other,
because of its adaptability to their processes and the efficiency of their manufactures.
The production in Tasmania has recently diminished owing to the fact that the alluvial flats in which
the Osmiridium was contained have been gradually worked out. However, with the discovery of the lode
of Osmiridium now held by the Adams River Osmiridium Syndicate, the chances of a higher production
are very much more probable.
THE MARKET:
The London market is bare of Osmiridium and there are several London buyers eager for the metal.
The price offering to-day for Osmiridium in Australian Currency is £2O to £2l per ounce, and owing
to the scarcity of the metal there is eviery indication of this price advancing.
Messrs. William Jacks & Co., Metal Buyers, of London, in their report dated 30th June, 1937, state
Tasmanian Osmiridium is scarce, and stocks are very low. Consumers find that South African metal is
unsuitable for their requirements.
BROKERAGE AND PRELIMINARY EXPENSES:
A Brokerage of 5 per cent, will be paid by the Company on all shares allotted in response to applica-
tions received through members of recognised Stock Exchanges, and to Agents approved by the Directors,
commission payable by the Company for the underwriting of any shares will not exceed a further 2i per
cent., making in all a total commission payable not exceeding 71 per cent. It is estimated Preliminary
Expenses will not exceed £250.
APPLICATION FOR SHARES.
Early Application should be made to avoid disappointment.
Application for shares should be made on the form provided, and forwarded, together with application
money, direct to the Directors, c/o H. S. Marks, 524 Collins Street, Melbourne. Prospectuses may be had
on application. Cheques should be made payable to Osmiridium (Tasmania) No Liability, crossed and
marked “Not Negotiable.”
Application will be made for the listing of the Company’s shares on the Melbourne Stock Exchange.


ADAMS’ (TATTERSALL’S) HOTEL
25!) PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 484 GEORGE STREET.
Rooms. 6/- and 8/- per day; Breakfast, Table d’Hote or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE PUBLIC DINING ROOMS.
Luncli from 12 noon (Sunday, 12.45 p.m.), Din ner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday, 5.45 p.m.).
Tables or Seats may be reserved by ’Phone, M 4601.
A Compact and Highly Efficient Drive
Wherever the Ludowici Short Centre Pivot
Drive has been installed—and there are thou-
sands in constant operation throughout Aus-
tralia—it has instantly proved its superiority.
With the Ludowici Pivot Drive, belt slip is
eliminated, space is saved, and much longer
belt life is assured. Why not investigate the
Ludowici Short Centre Pivot Drive ?
Made and guaranteed by :
9
'ksm
<
1
1
I. C. LUDOWICI & SON LIMITED
POWER TRANSMISSION ENGINEERS
117 York St., Sydney -- - 20-26 Queen’s Bridge St., South Melbourne.
MINERAL DEVELOPMENTS
(FIJI), LTD.
Assayers, Mine Managers afad Geologists:
Mining properties reported upon.
Diamond Drilling- Contracts Undertaken,
’Phones: 8W5260. 19 O’Connell Street,
84439. SYDNEY.
INVENTORS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
He He * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 422
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Se., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
* * * *
AUSTRALASIAN timberlands and plantation
valuation surveys, milling plants, certification of
shipments. L. MACINTOSH ELLIS, B.Sc. (late
Director State Forest Service, New Zealand), Consult-
ing Forest Engineer, 8 Bond Street, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
METALS. —If you want to sell Ores, Metals, Strap,
or buy Refined Tin, Antimony, Solders, Type Metals,
Bearing Metals and other Alloys, try 0. T.
LEMPRIERE & CO. PTY., LTD., Bowden Street,
Alexandria, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
For the best value in all ENGINEERS’ TOOLS —
William Adams & Company, Ltd. These tools are
fully illustrated and priced in our 1935 General
Catalogue. Write to 175 Clarence Street, Sydney,
for vour free copy.— Advt.
Public Notice.
CORESTRY BONDS.—I pay up to £5
t per bond than other buyers for N.Z.
petual Forests Bonds.—R. F. CORMACK
Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
more
Per-
-440
The “Curvilinear” Concentrating Table
SEND FOR
BULLETIN
AND
PRICE.
Si
SIMPLE
AND
RELIABLE.
We are the patentees and manufacturers of this table. Call for a demonstration.
Can also quote for all classes of mining machinery, including stamp batteries,
amalgamating tables, magnetic ore separators, classifiers, agitators, everlasting
valves, water- and oil-filters, Rendrock and all other explosives and accessories.
Electric motors and Ellison switch gear.
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LIMITED,
Sole Patentees and Manufacturers,
10-12 PARRAMATTA RD., CAMPERDOWN, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
prices for rural products and the con-
tinued improvement in conditions gener-
ally. Gross earnings sprang £5906, reach-
ing £144,028, the best yet:
Exes. p.c.
Dec., Revenue. Exes, of Revenue.
1928.. £107,075 £87,100 81.3
1929.. 133,483 109,051 81.7
June,
1930*. 68,975 57,088 82.7
1931.. 114,573 100,298 87.5
1933.. 111,813 90,884 81.1
1934.. 108,433 90,182 83.1
1935.. 128,924 109,207 84.6
1936.. 138,122 115,816 83.9
1937.. 144,028 118,450 82.2
‘Half-year.
Exes., which took £2634 of the in-
crease, include £9143 (up £910) for in-
come and land taxes. That is to say,
for every pound earned for shareholders
the business earned 7s. 2d. for the Gov-
ernment. The amount spent on main-
tenance and repairs was £8145. and
£11,201 was struck off for depreciation,
together £19,346, equal to 5 p.c. of the
book value of freehold, leasehold and
equipment at June 30, 1936; goodwill
and therefore earnings partly depend on
the state of equipment.
The net result (up £3273) was 10.5
p.c. on capital as against 9.2 p.c. for
the previous term. The div. was lifted
from 8 p.c. to 9 p.c., the final being at
the rate of 10 p.c. p.a., and 9 p.c. is now
worth 11.1 p.c. on capital as it stood
before the one-for-four gift issue after
the close of accounts in 1935.
Over the last dozen years divs. aver-
aged 12.4 p.c., shareholders put up
£105,600 of fresh capital, which brought
with it £74,800 of share premiums,
£48,400 of bonus scrip was scattered,
and £77,581 net was added to the debt.
The new money went mainly into free-
hold, leasehold (the main lease still has
about 54 years to run) and equipment.
Here is the position as balance-sheet
figures show it:
1930. 1935. 1936. 1937.
Capital .. £174,857 £193,600 £242,000 £242,000
Liabilities . . 50,230 117,141 117,116 99,496
Freeholds . . 165,617 264,637 258,350 250,707
Leaseholds . . 102,984 102,692 101,500 100,288
Plant & furniture 41,024 39,757 24,300 23,864
Stores .. 607 952 663 734
Debtors ■ 505 101 174 222
Investments & cash 6,000 1,819 6,120 3,975
When the books closed the outside debt,
which consisted of a mortgage of £87,849
(down £17,866) and £11,647 (up £246)
coming to sundry creditors, exceeded
more or less liquids by £94,565, an im-
provement of £15,594 over the twelve-
month.
Nominal capital, now quarter of a
million in 10s. shares, is to be increased,
but the board says it has nothing in
mind at the moment that will necessitate
a new issue to those on the register. At
19s. 3d. the shares return 4.6 p.c. on a
9 p.c. div. basis. The cover is 11s. in
net tangibles.
Mount Morgan, Ltd.
Income. Exes. Surplus. Dividends.
1935.. £347,900 £237,467 £110,433 49 p.c. = £BO,OOO
1936.. 390,821 285,860 104,961 55 „ ~ 127,600
1937.. 515,056 372,013 143,043 15 „ „ 40,333
A bigger output of gold and copper,
and the rise in the price of the latter
especially, put the spring of £124,235 in
last year’s income. Costs were reduced,
despite a shorter working week and
higher wages, and the surplus benefited
by £38,082 of the increase, reaching
£143,043, of which £14,386 was reserved
for removal of overburden, leaving that
reserve (£8371 at the previous balance)
now £lO,OOO in credit. No allowance
was made for depreciation out of earn-
ings. The £128,657 that remained was
equal to Is. l.ld. per share, of which
4yd. (15 p.c. = £40,333) was distributed
in July, 1936 ; a similar amount went out
on 10/7/’37, and another 4yd. is to be
sent out on Oct. 11.
The oxidised ore treatment plant
(capacity 800 tons per day) started up
on January 20, and treated 97,241 tons
of dump material and overburden (head
value 1.623dwt.) for 4255.70 z. of gold
(average o.B7dwt. per ton) and 2736.30 z.
of silver. Bullion and copper pre-
cipitates together realised £37,i63. Ex-
cluding administrative charges, mining,
treatment and realisation costs totalled
£42,264, leaving the balance £5lOl on
the wrong side. Tonnage costs were
mining Is. 11.6 d. and treatment 6s. 3.8 d.
There is 1,282,000 tons of dump
material, estimated to average 2.7dwt.,
available. The undissolved gold loss in
the residues has now been reduced to
o.4dwt. and the soluble gold loss to
O.ldwt. On this basis and with costs as
they are, and assuming that the head
value of the feed averages 2.7dwt., the
estimated profit of 10s. per ton, or over
£lOO,OOO p.a., should be realised. The
difference between the estimated average
value of all dump material and that
treated last term was due to leaching of
the outer portion of the dumps ; values
are now approaching the expected grade,
the manager says. Costs are also ex-
pected to be reduced.
The future of the mine depends mainly
upon results obtained from the sulphide
mill, which compare as follows over the
last three years:—
1935. 1936. 1937.
Ore treated, tons . . 177,780' 259,929 322,310
Grade: Gold, dwt. .. 5.8 4.2 3.4
Copper, p.c.. . 0.5 0.6 0.6
Concentrate, tons .. -6,266 9,538 11,618
Grade: Gold, dwt. .. 108.0 73.9 60.2
Copper, p.c.. . 13.5 15.8 15.5
Gold produced, oz. .. 33,832 35,618 35,284
Copper produced, tons 844 1,513 1,807
Recovery: Gold, p.c... 65.7 64.4 63.8
Copper, p.c. 87.8 86.7 84.7
Ratio concentration .. 28.3 27.2 27.7
The outstanding features there are the
quickening of throughput (up 62,390 tons
last year) due to additions and improve-
ments to plant, with a consequent reduc-
tion in costs, and continued decline in
the grade of ore. The metals are becom-
ing more difficult to recover, too. The
average grade for the 7,307,329 tons of
sulphide ore reserves is 4.26dwt. gold
and 1.77 p.c. copper. The lower grade
mined last year is said to be due pri-
marily to gradual subsidence of the ore-
body above the Linda level (450 ft.) dur-
ing earlier leaching operations, and the
consequent dilution of broken ore by
overburden and oxidised and dyke
material, which mixed with the ore dur-
ing subsidence. As the workings
approach the 512 ft. level, values are ex-
pected to conform to mine average. On
a throughput of 330,000 tons p.a. there is
22 years’ work ahead.
The cost of mining and treating the
sulphides compares as follows:
i 935. 1936. 1937.
Mining- .. 7s. 5,0 d. ss. 10.9 d. 6s. 2.5 d.
Treatment .. 10s. 6.7 d. 9s. 0.4 d. 7s. 3.1 d.
Total .. 17s. 11.7 d. 14s. 11.3 d. 13s. 5.6 d.
The substantial reduction in costs over
the last two years reflects the new plant
and treatment methods. Last year’s in-
crease of 3.6 d. in rfiining costs was due
to a shorter working week and lift in
wage rates. Treatment costs were Is.
9.3 d. lower, making the year’s reduction
in total costs Is. 5.7 d. The new power
plant is expected to result in savings
aggregating £34,500 p.a. as against an
estimated £25,000.
The year’s concentrates were worth
£474,419. Mining, milling and realisa-
tion made off with £306,288, leaving
£168,131. Sundry income totalled £3474,
and administrative charges, etc., £23,461.
Including £50,551 shown in the 1936
accounts as plant and buildings in course
of erection, last year’s capital outlay
totalled £281,201, of which £195,816 was
on account of new machinery (mainly the
oxidised ore plant, two pulverised fuel
boilers and a 3000 kw. turbo-generator-
alternator unit), £59,869 reconditioning
old plant, etc., and £25,515 mine pre-
paration. To meet the outlay £21,429 of
fresh capital, which brought with it
£88,912 of share premiums, was gathered,
making paid capital £293,500. Surplus
earnings and liquids provided the bal-
ance. Excluding shares in Mt. Morgan
Developments (£10,000), the contraction
in the more or less liquid surplus
(£196,708) was £32,659. The expendi-
ture on reconditioning and mine prepara-
tion was written off from share premium
account, and £10,633 from the same
source was used to write down new plant
and buildings, leaving them with a book
value of £269,224. The mine figures at
£53,420.
At 11s. Id. the fully-paid 2s. 6d. shares
return 3.4 p.c. on a 15 p.c. div. basis.
The investor at 11s. Id. who looks for
his money back, plus approximately 8
p.c. p.a., counts on distributions averag-
ing £162,776 p.a. (Is. 4.6 d. per share)
over the next 22 years. Much will de-
pend upon what happens in connection
with the price of copper, and upon
whether the mine lives up to estimated
values.
Kuala Kampar Tin Fields, Ltd,
Including 21,600,000 c.y., containing
4074 tons t. 0., acquired during the last
term at a cost of £16,800, dredging re-
serves down to 90ft. are now approx.
210,000,000 c.y. of 0.421 b. dirt, contain-
ing 39,600 tons t.o. At last year’s rate
of digging, there is thus 30 years’ work
for the present two electric-driven
dredges. Below 90ft. an additional
25,000,000 c.y., .averaging 0.741 b., is esti-
mated to be available. To handle this
deep ground, the board has ordered a
new dredge, capable of digging to 130 ft.
and equipped with 18-c.f. buckets, which
is expected to set in early in 1939. Funds
in hand are sufficient to meet the cost.
Promoted by Alluvial Tin (Malaya),
which passed over its Malayan interests
to Anglo-Oriental in 19315, this Kampar
co. combined the undertakings of Malim
Nawar South, Kuala Kampar and Tan-
jong Tualing, all in the Kinta district,
Perak, in 1928. Owing to the easy nature
of the ground and the powerful dredges,
working exes, have been among the low-
est in the F.M.S. Last term saw further
reduction, No. 1 unit operating at an
average cost of 1.77 d. per c.y., No. 2
1.45 d.:
1935. 1936. 1937.
Cub. yds. dug- .. 2,265,000 6,173,000 6,864,000
T. 0., tons .. •• 503.3 1269.5 1165.5
Aver, per c.y., lb. 0.51 0.46 0.37
Assay, p.c. .. 75.3 75.4 75.5
Costs per c.y., pence 2.58 1.79 1.6
Net ore real’n, ton £139/5/6 £134/2/11 £132/9/7
Singapore average
metallic tin, ton £230/12/11 £212/15/6 £207/6/7
Lower-grade ground was dug, and the
smaller output fetched a bit less per
ton. Income, which benefited by £5556
from sale of buffer stocks in the previous
term, slipped £5831: —-
Year to , Dividends ,
Mar., Revenue. Exes.* Surplus. Share. Amt.
1933.. £23.995 £19,661 £4,334 Nil Nil
t 61,705 42,764 18,939 -/6 £29,250
iyoa-* ) New bucket-band .written off, £7348.
, q c R j 171,644 87,068 84,576 ~J9 43,835
/ Reserve bucket band, .£5OOO.
1Q „ f 165,813 79,727 86,086 1/3 73,125
| Reserve bucket band, £4500.
* Including depreciation: £4693, 1933 ; £15,331,
1935; £21,607, 1936; £16,244, 1937.
After allowing £5363 less for deprecia-
tion, the net surplus was equal to Is. sd.
per share. For bucket-line renewal
£4500 was reserved, and the div. was
raised from 7y p.c. to 12-y p.c. No. 2
dredge, which had been idle since 1931,
was sold for £28,000.
The 10s. shares appear to offer long-term
prospects at 20s. 6d. For the first four
months of the current term the two
dredges have been in 0.41 b. ground—
-2,024,000 c.y. has been turned over for
358.7 tons t.o. —metal prices have risen,
and an interim 6d. per share has been
disbursed. Latest quarterly F.M.S.
domestic quota release is 80 p.c. of assess-
ment, equivalent to a permissible annual
output of 1142 tons t.o. for Kuala Kam-
par.
At balance date the co. held £186,416
in liquids and owed £8332. Leases were
in the books at £380,566 ; plant, £90,000 ;
stores, etc., £30,669. Paid capital is
£585,000.
Owing to the present high price of
wolfram, due partly to the armaments
race —the London figure, now 1275. per
unit (221 b.), recently ran up to 200 s
Phoenix Wolfram, Ltd., proposes to re-
open the old Mount Charlested wolfram
mine (N.S.W.). Price for property and
equipment, including a 300-ton-weekly
treatment plant, is £2850 cash. Public is
asked to put up £6500 in ss. shares,
which have been underwritten by Sydney
Evans and Co., Sydney sharebrokers.
R. A. Rolfe, mine manager of the old co.,
reckons there is at least 4212 tons of ore,
containing 1.5 units of wolfram per ton,
available, mostly between Nos. 4 and 5
levels. At the greater depth the lode is
15in. wide, and continues underfoot.
With wolfram at 925. 6d. a unit London,
and mining and milling costs at 655. a
ton, ore in sight is expected to yield a
gross profit of £22,823, apart from treat-
ment of accumulated tailings. Cost of
unwatering the mine and recondition-
ing plant is estimated at £1044. High
costs, due to the narrowness of the ore-
body, and labor troubles sent the old co.
into liquidation last year. Wolfram was
then below 40s. stg. per unit.
ifc * ije
Plant difficulties, which have interfered
with throughput and held up under-
ground work, having been largely over-
come, Hill 50, Mt. Magnet (W.A.), hopes
to soon clear itself of debt. After deduct-
ing bullion on hand, £7124 was coming
to outsiders at May 31. The mill is now
handling 2000 tons monthly, and mining
and treatment costs, including 2s. a ton
for development, had been got back to
265. 7d. for July, as against an average
of 335. sd. for the year to May 31. When
the reconditioned main power unit gets
into its stride, more ore should go
through the mill, to the benefit of costs,
Three ore-bodies are being opened up
at 200 ft., and values continue under-
foot. Proved ore above No. 3 level
is figured at 52,000 tons, averaging 6dwt.,
with a probable 27,000 tons of similar
grade. Accounts for the 12 months to
May 31 show a net profit of £2209.
Crushing commenced in September,
1936, 14,810 tons being milled, mainly
development ore. During the running-in
period 300 oz. to 400 oz. gold was ab-
sorbed in the plant. A driving and winz-
ing programme is to be undertaken at
the 200 ft. level, and no difficulty is
expected in keeping the feed up to the
mill.
* >'f * *
For the year to the end of April last,
Fair Play and Golden Group (W.A.)
netted £8352, of which £2279 was used
to write off preliminary exes. A 3d. divi-
dend has been declared. The co. received
£1482 in divs. from South Kalgurli and
£10,074 from shares in Gordon Gold.


SMOKE-OH!
“Irish fishermen declare that a merman
chased their boat.”
What have the Scotch distillers to say
to that?
•J*
The girl who has an old head on
young shoulders is usually the one who
puts a young head on old shoulders.
•I* ♦!" *1- *b
Gruit-growing for Profit.
“Mr. McLaren grows gruit in a big way
along the rich Yuma Valley in Arizona.”
— Melb. “Sun News-Pictorial.”
With years of trapping mesquite in
Arizona behind me, I feel I’m somewhat
of an authority on the growing of gruit.
To grow good gruit you must have first
of all a big way to grow it in. Gruit
likes plenty of space, and seeds should
be sown in canyons two miles apart
with a mile between rows. It takes 3f
mountains to hill-up a row of gruits in
their second leaf.
The best fertiliser is two parts rim-
rock, eight parts arroya, six parts minced
chaparral and four parts desiccated side-
winder. Next take your big way and
scald thoroughly with two pintos of
mustang, dry it off with a “Bull Durham”
bag, add fertiliser to taste, a dash of
bronco, and plant gruit seed in canyons
in the fall.
Oh, to be in Arizona when the gruit is
in bloom, enjoying scents of Yuma in a
big way!
Hanko.
*r 4* *b
“Irish Bard in that race has the No. 1 poet
position. ’ ’ —“S un.”
Then he stanza good chance!
*l*
Make Racing Pay.
Don’t be a mug punter any longer.
Let O’Cohen’s Beaut Bets pick the win-
ners of the Epsom, Metrop. and two
Cups for you. Beaut Bets offer you any
or all of three systems based on the fol-
lowing :
(1) Numerological analysis of weights ;
(2) astrological forecast based on jockeys'
birthdays ; (3) special crystal reading.
The price is £1 single, £5 the set. We
naturally charge more for the set be-
cause by playing all three systems and
doubling up you are likely to break the
books.
Realising that tips based on the fore-
going scientific formula must inevitably
attract a new and somewhat unworldly
type of punter, O’Cohen’s Beaut Bets
place at their convenience a new and un-
paralleled service. If you are diffident
about asking the butcher to put the
money on for you, just send the cash to
us. We’ll see that it gets to the right
place.
Now for the small punter .who has to
squeeze his stakes out of his beer and
tobacco money. To him, in return for
25., we will send a lucky Chinese chop-
suey fork —the sure stabber of winners.
State whether two- or three-pronged fork
is required. The former is particularly
useful for picking doubles, and the latter
for each-way betting. Handled with con-
fidence the lucky fork will often pick all
placed horses.
Special Note: Clients requiring the
astrological chart should send in their
money before the next full moon for best
results. Cheques must be received at
least three days before meeting so that
they can be cleared in time.
Angus O'Cohen.
“Japan conscripts 100 pearlers.” —News item.
Thinking they will be used to handling
shells!
4* *X* •h
“These Kurds are tribesmen who will stop at
nothing.”— “Sun.”
It’s a whey they have.
v *i« 4*
Swilling a Feed.
“A dietitian says that beer should rightly
be regarded as a food.”
The secretary of the Beer-chewers and
Hop-fanciers’ Association writes:
Sir, —It is with considerable gratifica-
tion that my association regards this
opinion of an expert who is well qualified
to judge the merits, as a comestible, of
our favorite fruit, flower, vegetable,
scent and tonsil-soother.
Possessing as it does “body” as well as
“head,” there seems no reason why beer
should not be placed in the same cate-
gory as beef and mutton, though it is
definitely more tender than either. More-
over, though it can be masticated, as our
members have proved, its deglutition
throws no undue strain on the jaw
muscles, as in the case of meat.
As one of the hon. research officers
of our organisation, I am personally con-
ducting experiments—which I have actu-
ally interrupted to indite this letter —to
ascertain if a nine-course meal would be
more beneficial dietetically than the
orthodox three-courser in the event of
beer being declared a staple food. This
latter aim is one we propose pursuing
vigorously, and to enforce, iff possißLe3
itsh re£ogniTiOn as’ SMAlLgood@s oR
ALtsrnAtiv % or alTortaniv blaSt&
“I don't Want to bustle you gentlemen, but these people are Waiting to
move in.”
oreLS5 or eLSe “ Sorta |sOUpsh%
hOORfaY’
ALI ho9or TO tHish diettish thlSi
Dletisc)th6s fODDe4r bLO@kE Forr
AdDuc7ing%conFlßmatiOnOf this PrO-
fBund truTfH HOoraY&. On Beha4f
mY ecexutiv my exexutiv my MOb wE
heaßty eXtenD hIM hereb7y inviTEtO
DrINK damgOOdf SQuaRB fEEd
wiTHUS aNY’tIMe . THefOOds oN us
an we&ll EAt Hlm| unDERT aBLe4//
hOOrAY?? MUsh rESUmeS ex-
repiMEnts&&. YoURs, yOU KNow(„
ME..
80.
•I*
“A former gangster is to appear in a Holly-
wood crime film.”
Being shot has no terrors for him now.
-I- *
The harmony that once existed be-
tween nations seems to have become
split up into Notes.
4* *S* *£• 4*
On Training Daughters.
“Daughters are difficult,” says a woman’s
paper.
Be firm with your daughter. For in-
stance, when she writes home from
finishing - school pleading, “Daddy,
duckums, can I have next month’s allow-
ance now?” tell her that “may I” is
better English and that she can’t. Also,
ask her to refrain from writing such
lurid mush about her maths, master.
Remind her that even a dustman domi-
ciled at a girls’ college would be excep-
tionally good at figures.
When she’s home on vacation, insist
that she gets in before 3 a.m. Be frank
with her. Enlighten her about the pit-
falls to which young women are ex-
posed and, when she hilariously ex-
claims, “Daddy, you priceless old goose,
I’ve known all that for donkeys’ years!”
smile sheepishly and pretend you were
joking.
Be tactful in the handling of her boy-
friends ; some of these youngsters can
use their mitts. And when some impe-
cunious scamp wants to marry her, say:
“Take her, spn, and God bless you.” If
you reject a chance like that, you n\ay
not get another. You’ll probably have
to keep them both henceforth, but if she
drives anybody crazy it won’t be you.
Percy.
4* 4* 4*
Can anybody explain why jazz-band
players tune their instruments?
*£•*!* •£•
“The A.B.C. is making time available on one
of its stations for each of the party leaders in
the Victorian election campaign.”
A bawl-to-bawl description.
*l* *l*
“Many Australian artists have left their
native land to make a name for themselves
overseas. Quite a large percentage have suc-
ceeded.” —News item.
For instance, there is the case of the
Australian tenor, Joseph Brown, who
went abroad and returned as the famous
Josefski Brownislau.
•b *1- *
“A dream flat to let.” — “Courier-Mail.”
Yairs, I know ’em. The maid spends
her time daydreaming of the midnight
oil that she burned with the butcher’s
boy ; the cook moves in a trance, serving
meals that give you the midnight horrors,
and your neighbor’s a noctambulist, thus
making life a nightmare.
*l*
Customs and Inhabitants of Our
Great Outback.
The prosperity enjoyed by many
farmers and settlers in our continent’s
far-flung outposts can be attributed in
no small measure to the influence of the
New Hand, or, as he is often affection-
ately called, “Choom.” Bringing as he
does the ripe agricultural experience
gained in the Old World, it naturally
follows that his services, particularly in
the capacity of adviser, are in great
demand. He is able, for instance, to
point out the many advantages of, and
to instruct some of our more primitive
farmers in using, the single-furrow
plough and the eight-pronged harrow
which the more up-to-date agriculturists
of his native Somerset use on their huge
80-acre farms.
Once the New Hand is installed on
the farm (rivalry to obtain the benefit
of his wide knowledge and experience
often leads to bad feeling between
farmers, resulting in blood feuds which
are sometimes carried on ruthlessly from
generation to generation), the owner is
content to leave the modernisation of
his holding to the newcomer. Many of
the fine hedges of Noogoora burr, St.
John’s wort, prickly-pear and stinking
Roger which can so often be seen grac-
ing the river paddocks and economically
displacing boundary fences on many out-
back properties are tributes to the com-
bination of his aesthetic and utilitarian
senses.
Such is the amazing energy of this
prodigy of the soil that all the reforms
he institutes are performed in addition to
multifarious other duties. Among these
one of the most important is “scrub
feeding.”
It is axiomatic among settlers, particu-
larly those engaged in dairying pursuits
in the rich lush-grass regions of Central
Australia, never to destroy scrub lands —
i.e., lands on which grow shrubs which
are both useful and ornamental, such
as the castor-oil plant, mistletoe, lawyer-
vine, lantana and sweetbriar, and valu-
able fodder trees like the purple-top
and red-ink plant. The reasons are
twofold. Firstly, the delightful flowers
from these shrubs and trees are used for
indoor decoration of the homestead ; sec-
ondly, their foliage is a valuable antacid
for stock which sometimes get blown up
through eating too much of the rich
Mallee grasses that grow so profusely in
those regions. The leaves of the castor-
oil plant, chewed by cows which have
gone “dry,” are also distinctly beneficial
as a lubricant.
It is obvious that these scrub lands
will become impoverished of their phos-
phoric' acid and nitrogen contents unless
these are replaced through the agency
of fertilisers. Thus the term “scrub feed-
ing.” It is a common sight to see the
New Hand, his shoulders bowed beneath
the weight of a wooden yoke from which
is suspended a brace of watering-cans,
going from scrub to scrub administering
the life-giving liquid manure.
Other phases of his work are the de-
snaking of hollow logs, feeding the
station rabbits, transplanting potatoes,
vigorously drying-off with a towel any
horses that have been given a “drench”
so as to combat worms and the bots,
“dipping” cattle, etc.
The modern method of dipping cattle,
now practised on most big Australian
runs, was first introduced on a far-west
ern Queensland station by ,a New Hand.
When cattle are found to be suffering
from the effects of bites by thrips, ticks,
earwigs, mosquitoes or stick-insects (fall-
ing hair and running eyes are invariable
symptoms) they are immediately put into
a race, the winner being the first to be
submitted to the dipping process.
The dipping-pen is an ingeniously de-
vised affair. A wooden structure, just
sufficiently wide to
admit one animal at
a time, is arranged
on the principle of
the seesaw. Immedi-
ately above this is a
shower-like arrange-
ment containing suf-
ficient “d ip” (a
strong mixture of
lysol, tea-tree oil,
creosote and essence
of desiccated coco-
nut) for one beast,
which is hobbled in
such a way that its
progress through the
dipping-pen is timed
so that the last
drop from the con-
tainer will fall on its tail. The con-
tainer is worked by a man lying on top
of the structure and out of sight of the
animal; immediately prior to the head
appearing beneath him he pulls the
string, timing it so that the first drops
fall on its skull. As the forepart needs
a much heavier “dip” than the rear por-
tion, the reason for the seesaw-shaped
pen becomes obvious, as it takes the
animal longer to climb up to the centre
of it than to come down the other side.
During its progress through the pen
it is also subjected to dipping from the
sides, and this is effected by having a
man stationed on each side of it. Their
job is to blow the mixture over the
beast’s sides through atomisers. Thus
every part (excepting the underneath por-
tion, which, owing to the parasitic insects’
inability to feed whilst upside down, is
never attacked) is subjected to thorough
treatment.
It having been at long last borne in
upon cattlemen that being nudged by a
15001 b. bull is much preferable to being
gored, dehorning is now a recognised
practice on big stations. To see an
expert dehorner nonchalantly walk up
to an outsize, long-horned Ayrshire bull,
put one brawny arm around its neck,
back-slam it and then proceed to deprive
it of its horns with his hacksaw, after-
wards finishing off a neat job with his
wood rasp, is a lesson in what someone
once called the poetry of commotion.
Soft ground is always selected for this
operation, as it is then an easy matter,
when the bull is struggling violently after
being thrown, to render it helpless by
pushing one horn into the ground as a
peg whilst working on the other. This
can’t be done, of course, after the first
horn is off, but by that time the bull is
so gloomy at the loss of .a horn in which
he doubtless took a pride that he hasn’t
the heart to protest as the dehorner
starts on the second one. The intelligent
animal will probably even welcome the
lopping of the second one, aware that,
not only would he look ridiculous with
only one, but that he could run around
only in circles, owing to lopsidedness.
S. W. K.
The House Upon the Corner.
The house upon the corner’s primly pic-
turesque and old,
And up its walls the tendrils of a ver-
dant creeper climb;
And legends and romances of its history
are told,
For when my grandsire was a youth
the house was in its prime.
The house upon the corner from its
neighbors stands aloof,
And from the moiling world outside it
furnishes retreat;
But, though the place appeals to me, I’m
seldom ’neath its roof,
For its beer is not as good as at the
Crown along the street!
P.O.M.C.


Vi
mi
: : yy.y
> «, .wi
:. :
mis.
_ i
m
Sis
KW
f
IDENTICAL WITH THE CIGARETTES
CHOSEN BY Mr. RICHARD CROOKS
mm
8888
8K
$
Are
*
9 for 6d., 18 for 17-
Cork Tipped or Plain
B'v/96-24
m
\f thloat tells me
Slack & White
ale so much hettel .
Business,Rollery,Etc.
More Nervousness
War in China, war in Spain," piracy
in the Mediterranean, France in a finan-
cial and economic pickle and Dr. Schacht
out of the financial chair in Germany; last
week these and other things had the effect
of weakening the support for wool at all
auctions, and the overseas depression on
Stock Exchanges became more accentu-
ated in Australia. On Wednesday cabled
metal quotations from London showed
almost an all-round rise ; Barrier mines,
Electrolytic Zinc, Mt. Lyell and Broken
Hill Prop, fell in varying degrees of
sharpness. Most investments took a dip.
Some English authority a few days ago
raised the question of whether the world
would this year be in for a period of -
pre-Christmas buoyancy in commodities
and investments so noticeable last year'
The gold-price scare of April has, had a
lot to do with the dampening-down of
speculation, and, with many new issues
coming on the market from time to time,
investment-hunger isn’t so acute as it
was. So far as * commodities are con-
cerned, supply and demand are likely to
govern prices more than they did this
time last year.
Last Thursday Australian share-
markets continued to slip, but on a more
moderate scale ; by Friday there was a
steadying, Barriers and B.H.P. showing
particular recovery.
If a large-scale war is threatened, it
isn’t the best of logic to sell equities and
change into currency or fixed-interest
securities. Last week, however, that was
the tendency on the part of the nervous.
The point that war-time finance brings
inflation, and inflation attacks “bonds,”
etc., rather than ord. shares, was
brought out strongly here just two years
ago, when the Italians bombed Adowa.
American financial journals recently to
hand acknowledge that, the same philo-
sophy, within iimits, has shifted even
small <• investors’ support in the States
from bonds to equities. It has happened
to a smaller or greater degree over the
past 12 months in almost every coun-
try where gold isn’t in free circulation,
and where gold therefore can’t be
hoarded.
’ Prices of some Australian ord. shares
may be too high ; in present circum-
stances there may be benefits accruing
from temporary changes in investments ;
but if a world war is the thing princi-
pally feared it is hard to see how ord.
shares in. necessary Australian industries
can fare worst in event of such a
calamity.
S.A.’s Natural Resources
From H.. E. Winterbottom, secretary
South Aus. Chamber of Manufactures:
After studying the par. (B. l/9/’37) showing
the quantities of iron ore and gypsum pro-
duced in South Australia in one year, is it any
wonder that we in this State are sometimes
inclined to complain that we don’t get the
full benefit from these wonderful natural re-
sources to which we are entitled? From S.A.’s
point of view, here is another argument in
favor of decentralisation of industry, for at
present the eastern States are benefiting far
more from our iron ore and gypsum deposits
than we are ourselves. In fact, in the case of
iron ore, it is really Newcastle (N.S.W.) that
reaps the most benefit, Practically all the
big industries of that town have settled there
because of B.H. Prop.’s great steelworks, and
of all the iron ore sent to these works it has
been estimated by a competent authority that
South Australia receives only 5 p.c. of the
total benefit. In other words, her great
natural wealth is being used up chiefly for the
benefit of her already wealthy neighboring
States.
We do not for a moment suggest that the
whole of S.A.’s natural resources should be
treated by plants erected in this State, but we
do maintain that, because of the great benefits
which Australian secondary industries as a
whole have derived from these resources, that
it is at least entitled to a fair share of those
industries.
Surely it isn’t asking too much to urge the
Commonwealth Government to establish in
S.A. at least some of the new factories to be
erected in connection with its defence scheme
—quite apart from the many other arguments
which might be used, such as the question of
security in time of war or a better-balanced
national economy.
The prayer seems to have been partly
answered almost as soon as it was
uttered. Premier Butler has announced
the probability of B.H.P. establishing a
blast-furnace with a capacity of over
200,000 tons of pig-iron a year some-
where in South Aus. That it may be set
up near Whyalla sounds feasible; B.H.P.’s
vessels bringing iron ore from that port
at present go back empty, so it would
cost practically nothing to take coal and
smelting coke from Newcastle to
Whyalla as back-loading.
A man who spent the most active
days of his life at Broken Hill in the
first flush of its great prosperity called
into the Silver City on his way from
Adelaide to Sydney. He found the
28,000 population optimistic and pros-
perous, and among business-people and
mining interests the summing-up of the
position was: The Hill started off as a
mining field over 50 years ago with little
or no capital behind it arid has pro-
duced an enormous amount of wealth ;
the next 50 years, with all the advan-
tages that ready money and almost 100
p.c. extraction of metals can bring, is
going to leave the past in the shade. The
South mine appears to have a limited
life ; the North at least a considerably
longer life than the South ; Zinc Cor-
poration anticipates treating more ore 25
years hence that it is to-day. On the
Barrier South leases (New Broken Hill
Consolidated) the lode is expected to
be met with at a shallower depth than
at first thought, and there is talk that
it may be worked from Zinc Corp.’s fine
new shaft. The cos. are doing a great
deal to keep their men contented ; “they
are beginning to realise how valuable
their men are.” Company money is
being spent on parks and playgrounds,
and at Christmas-time arrangements are
made for miners and their families to
have holidays in Adelaide. Over 5000
men are directly employed in the mines,
and some pains are being taken to
brighten the appearance of cottages
rented to miners. The year 1936-37 has
certainly been a wonderful one at the
Barrier. For the next 12 months pros-
pects are equally promising.
* * # *
A stupid attack at Canberra by
Ward, M.H.R., on Oil Search, Ltd., of
which Mr. Charlie Marr isn’t a director,
knocked the shares from Bs. on Thurs-
day night to 7s. on Friday morning, but
there was recovery later when the extent
of Mr. Ward’s misinformation became
generally appreciated.
* * * *
Final div. of Mauri Bros, and Thom-
son was declared last week, with the 5 p.c.
bonus making 15 p.c. (unchanged) for
the year, and the ord. shares recovered
to 755. (they had been down to 68s. a
couple of months earlier), then slipped
back to 745. They have been a
recommendation on this page at favor-
able prices several times, and are still
considered to be a good, solid stock
with first-class lines of business. Crown
bottle-seals, cork, vinegar, malt, shop
refrigerators and general fittings were
some of the lines that helped in showing
a profit equal to 27.1 p.c. on ord. capital
for the year.
* * :1s *
For a while during the past couple of
months Gordon and Gotch ords. went
begging around 51s. Last week they
lifted to 555. again, which is as high as
they have ever been. For long regarded
as a source of sound income to investors,
the stock at the present price still returns
£4 7s. sd, per cent, on a 12 p.c. div.
basis. The co. had an excellent depres-
sion record.
Holders of B.H.P. shares should be
able to hold their scrip with more equan-
imity than most investors. Though
U.S.A. steel stocks have dipped heavily
it js mainly because of the doubtful posi-
tion of the export markets in Asia. Pro-
duction by the U.S. Steel Corp. is still
well below capacity. B.H.P. is going
full blast,-and its products in many cases
are being sold below world parity. The
Newcastle and Port Kembla enterprises
are among; the most strongly positioned
steelworks in the world.
* * *
Australian Glass .ords. slipped from
their peak of 975. to 945. by Wednesday
of last week, with further recession to
935. later. On a 15 p.c. div. basis the
yield is £3 4s. sd. per cent, at the lower
quote. “Glass” last year showed 23.1 p.c.
on ord. capital after paying the prefs.;
Broken Hill Prop, disclosed 26.4 p.c. on
.‘average capital. Average divs. over 10
years have been 10.9 p.c. Glass, 7.5 p.c.
B.H.P. Flat rates in both cases, B.H.P.’s
experience is better when the new issue
of last year is taken into account.
'l* »J! * Jjt
On the first three days of last week
11,400 shares in Montana Western Ex-
tended (Zeehan, Tas.) were officially
traded in on Melbourne ’Change,
Wednesday’s selling being as much as in
the two preceding days put together.
Sales opened at 12s. 6d. on the Monday
and closed at 10s. Bd. on Wednesday ;
on Thursday 10s. lOd. was paid, 11s. on
Friday. Sydney and Adelaide dealings
practically froze up ; there was a nominal
market, but little or no official business.
. * :j{ *
In Melbourne last week:
Mount Morgan shares moved up to slightly
above 11s. on the announcement of a 4fd. div.,
payable Oct. 11. When the last distribution
(similar rate) went out on July 10 it was feared
by. some that development outlay would in-
terrupt the flow of profits to shareholders for
an appreciable time.
Carlton Brewery shares were still dealt in
at the low figure of 63 s. 6d.
Broken Hill Prop, shares picked up on
Friday, and showed only a shilling or so reduc-
tion on the week. '
. Were’s Investment Trust announced a 6
p.c. div., as against 5 p.c. last year. A onc-
for-five par issue is to be offered.
The' 55.-paid ord. shares in the new Snow s
•float were quoted at ss. lid., and the prefs. at
ss. 9d.
Adelaide Steam.
At 325. 6d., cum 4 p.c. final div.,
the £1 shares in Australia’s largest
coastal shipping co. returns £4 Bs.
per. cent, on a 7 p.c. div. basis.
Average distribution over the past
decade has been 5.7 p.c. p.a., with
a lowest point of 4 p.c. in 1931.
More than half the capital is repre-
sented by Commonwealth loans,
the rest is in an excellent fleet and
other shipping property, written-
down coal and other investments
and liquid assets. The co. has
excellent connections.


3
£
liti
A.
U!
*
l
m
a
L
>3
K
WIN
and high monetary rewards by
allowing us to train your latent
DRAWING ABILITY.
We teach every branch of remunerative art in the, most
efficient way possible. You learn by post from 16 noted Artists
possessing highest qualifications and wide practical experience
in Humourous Illustrating and Advertising Art.
WE OFFER YOU FREE TESTS!
Write now for our Art Ability Tests and beautifully illustrated book
Ari
entitled “The New Era in Commercial Art.” You
will be under no obligation, but you are asked to send
Bd. for registered postage, and to mention the “Bulletin.”
Tffi&ININC INSTITUTE
“Australia’s Foremost School of Commercial Art,”
fi3
O SWANSTON STREET*ME.LBOURN
Down through
the Century
H* 1
«K
VI x\'
l«i
MELBOURNES
t IRST LAND SALE
TWWi
rn
,/c t.v/d
13
mm
lELBOURNE
1937
It's a far cry from Melbourne s first
Government land sale in 1837. Founded in that
year to aid the development of Australia, the Union
Bank is proud of the part it has played and the
position it occupies in the country's financial structure.
To-day, through its network of branches and an
experienced staff, it offers every Banking facility to
the public.
Bunion bank
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Established /837
Incorporated, in England iSSo
EFFICIENT PERFORMANCE
m
i
■ ■
The “Triton” can be supplied
direct-coupled to electric motor,
with chain or vee-belt drive.
Please advise voltage and type
of electric current available.
at
LOW GOST
•g. •£>•£• •£•
‘TRITON’
VERTICAL
Single-acting
PLUNGER PUMP
Low cost and moderate capacity
this pump has been specially designed
for services where only a small supply
of water is wanted—where it would
be uneconomical to instal a powerful
pump.
Overall height, 19in. • Fitted with
1 Oin. diameter x 1 Jin. face fast and
loose pulleys, and arranged for 1 in.
suction and delivery pipes.
Normal speed, 300 r.p.m.; capacity,
6 gallons per minute. Power required,
\ h.p. ' '
Diameter of cylinder, 2§in. Length
of stroke, 1 Jin. Renewable gunmetal
ring-oiling bearings. Brass piston
valve seats, stems, plates and' springs.
All parts easily accessible without
disconnecting piping. Requires little
attention and is practically noiseless.
Price, £9/10/-.
Our new complete Catalogue is now available. Write for your copy.
AJ^Pllersons)
IProprietary Limited
546 Collins Street, Melbourne; 51 Bathurst Street, Sydney.
And at Adelaide and Perth.
Osmiridium (Tasmania), N.L.
Discovered in 1925, the Adamsfield
osmiridium field (on the Tas. south-west
coast) in the six years to 1931 produced
10,9030 z. of the metal, valued at
£235,300. The payable alluvial in sight
was practically sluiced out in that
period. In 1933 a newly-discovered lode
of serpentine was opened up; it was
from 6ft. to 10ft. wide, carrying osmiri-
dium in veins up to 18in. in width
throughout, and was the only important
occurrence of the metal in situ ever
found in Tasmania.
Part of the lode was worked by open-
cut for a time, but the ore was mainly
treated by sluicing and exposure to the
air; after a time, especially as other
mining in the Speck began to recover
from slump, operations ceased.
Osmiridium (Tasmania), N.L., has been
formed to take over the property from a
syndicate which has had mining men in-
specting the field at intervals since the
beginning of this year. Nominal capital
is £20,000 in 50,000 Bs. shares ; 40,000
are offered to the public, while the
vendors’ consideration is 10,000 fully-
paids, £2OOO in cash on exercise of the
option, and £3OOO royalty, payable at
rate of 10 p.c. of gross value of
osmiridium won.
Engineer Robert Cameron reports that
the lode, 6ft.-10ft. wide, is osmiridium-
bearing for a length of 2000 ft., proved
by sluicing and shaft-sinking. The allu-
vial stuff previously worked, he thinks,
was shed from this lode. Six samples,
111 b. each, from the bottom of the 40ft.
shaft averaged Bdwt. per ton, including
two samples of hard kernels which were
almost barren. The line of lode in the
syndicate’s area is 1350 ft. long.
A tunnel has been driven from the
northern end for a distance of 240 ft., and
by continuing the tunnel for a further
100 ft. it will intercept the lode and give
from 70ft. to 80ft. of backs for 900 ft. in
length... .The lode being wide and well
defined, there is no reason why values
should not continue to much greater depths.
On the ore in sight, which I estimate
as being approximately 45,000 tons....
at an average of Bdwt. per ton, and the
present price of osmiridium being 20s. per
pennyweight this mine has an estimated
value of £350,00.
Points made in favor of the- .float
are that when the public issue is fully
subscribed and paid to 4s. there will be
more than enough in hand to buy
machinery and meet development, that
the mine can be easily and cheaply
worked owing to the width and soft
nature of the lode, and that water is
available for power. Crushing by bat-
tery is expected to reduce costs (£1 a
ton has been mentioned) and to lift re-
coveries. For a start 50 tons a week is
aimed at, with 100 tons later. “Osmiri-
dium, owing to its density and coarse-
ness, is easily recovered.”
If anything like anticipations can be
realised, it should turn out a profitable
proposition. C. J. McLennan, who
looked at the mine twice on behalf of
the syndicate, expresses the belief that
it will. It is possible that all-in costs
will be more than £1 a ton ; but if
Bdwt. values are recovered they can
stand considerably higher costs.
To work areas five miles south and
three miles nor’-west of Zeehan respec-
tively, Montana Silver Lead Development
is to be registered in Melbourne. The
vendor, Saxon Developments, has applied
for 200 acres on the southern boundary
of the Montana Western Extended area,
and if the lease is approved it will pass
to the new co. On one of Montana De-
velopments’ southern areas engineer F. A.
Roberg estimates £60,000 worth of galena
and milling-ore to be in sight. Ambrose
Pratt is a director.
# =H * *
Associated Pulp and Paper, Burnie
(Tas.), expects to be in large-scale pro-
duction by May, 1938. The contrib.
shares, paid to 17s. 6d., weakened slightly
to 21s. in last week’s market reversal.
* * * *
Holeproof ords. dropped to 28s. last
week ; previous quote was 295. 6d. Yield
offering at the latest figure is over 7 p.c.
on a 10 p.c. div. basis. In its last term
the co. earned 19 p.c. on ord. capital
after paying the prefs. their 8 p.c. and
6 p.c. respectively. On total capital the
showing was 13.3 p.c. Though over-
production and higher costs are some of
the things mentioned lately as likely to
affect the hosiery industry, Holeproof’s
trading position is strong enough to stand
conditions more difficult than at present.
The ord. interim has been kept, at 10 p.c.
* * * *
Berleis, the corset people, have a subsi-
diary in Maoriland ; Arthur Burley, the
co.’s chairman, at the annual meeting
said that across the Tasman wage in-
creases (which accompanied shorter
hours) have been overtaken by a general
rise in costs and prices, exposing manu-
facturers to a flood of more cheaply-
manufactured imports. Mr. Burley anti-
cipates something of the kind to follow
the recent and forthcoming rises in Aus-
tralian wages. He advocates a system of
profit-sharing- in preference to lifts in
nominal wages. In its last year Berlei
(N.Z.), Ltd., paid \l\ p.c. to ord. share-
holders, and the scrip is around 655. in
Maoriland, a little above the level of
12 months ago. The Australian parent’s
ords. (10 p.c. div.) are around 40s. in
Sydney. It has been a successful' enter-
prise generally, and finances have been
kept in tidy shape.


SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Another newspaper-boomed horse let
the Sydney public down at Randwick
on Saturday—Gold Rod in the Tramway
Handicap. He had everything in his
favor: 61b. less than his Epsom burden,
9st. 31b. (the handicapper had framed
his weights on that basis), a capable
jockey, apparent superiority in condition
to most of the other starters and a good
beginning. For half the journey (seven
furlongs) he was nevef farther back, than
fifth. Yet when McCarten applied pres-
sure the big chestnut couldn’t or wouldn’t
come on. He wound up an inglorious
eleventh. Yet he had started at 5 to 4
in a field of 17.
Perhaps Red Thespian (20 to 1) took
the go out of Gold Rod by galloping
alongside him most of the way. Gold
Rod could not shake off the smaller
chestnut, who ultimately left him and
went on to pass The Marne and King’s
Head, who had been battling for the
lead. Red Thespian in his turn was
passed by Lough Neagh, on the outside,
and Prittle Prattle (5 to 1) in the middle
of the field, and in the end the old
Queensland gelding beat Prittle Prattle
by three-quarters of a length, Prittle
Prattle being the same distance in front
of Might Not (33 to 1), who had been
third practically all the way. Red Thes-
pian and Sarcherie were fourth, together ;
King’s Head was next, and then Mitsui,
Tuckiar and High.
The track was exceptionally fast, and
Lough Neagh, who was ridden by Shean,
cut the Australasian record to lmin.
23sec. The Tramway Handicap has been
a fortunate race for him and his owner-
trainer Brosnan; he was second to
Roman Spear at six years, and first at
seven years (on that occasion he con-
ceded 111 b. to the runner-up, King’s
Head, who tried to give him 61b. on
Saturday); and now, at nine years, he
has won again. There was very little
money for him, even Brosnan being of
opinion that Gold Rod would beat him,
and 33 to 1 could be got.
Mala (5 to 4) revived the drooping
spirits of newspaper boomsters by win-
ning the Chelmsford Stakes. It was his
first success in A. E. Cooper’s colors,
and it led to another outbreak of yap
and effusive comparisons ; but really the
performance was nothing to write home
about. Silver Standard, a very unlucky
handicap horse, was second, a length and
a half behind Mala, and Allunga third,
another head away ; Allunga, whom no-
body has ever pronounced a champion,
had 9st. 111 b., Silver Standard 9st. 41b.
and Mala 9st. Behind the three were
Gay Blonde, Buzalong, The Chanter,
Bristol, El Senorita, Fireman and
Curator.
Silver Standard chased El Senorita, the
early leader. When he had cut her down
it took Mala some time to catch him, and
Allunga seemed to be doing better than
either at the finish. Gay Blonde’s fourth
was not a bad effort, and Bristol, last
early, did good work over the last fur-
long. The Chanter was a disappoint-
ment. He lugged badly throughout, as
he did in his Sydney races two seasons
ago. There was plenty of money for him
at sixes.
The Spring Handicap was a good bet-
ting race and provided an excellent
finish, in which Vaalmore (7 to 1), Old
Rowley, Osculum, Sir Regent and Gay
Knight figured. Vaalmore, a very game
mare, got the judge’s verdict by a “short”
head from Old Rowley, who had gone
wide at the home turn, and Osculum
was placed third, half a head away.
Vaalmore comes down from 7st. 81b. to
7st. in the Metropolitan. This former
picnic performer has improved, and may
be a likely lightweight in the long race on
October 4, but Old Rowley’s perform-
ance was just as impressive, though he
goes up from 7st. 21b. to 7st. 51b. Mes-
toravon never seemed to be galloping
kindly, and he will need to improve to
have a Metrop. chance. Speardale was
in front for about a mile.
The Bulletin gave Bradford for the
Welter, and this Newcastle-owned and
-trained son of Rossendale-Princess
Delight won in slashing style. Half-way
down the straight he looked in danger
when Ramdin got through on the rails,
but Bradford refused to give in ; respond-
ing to the whip, he scored by a long
head, with old Kagal third. Bradford
has 7st. 41b. in the Metrop., and the
owner, E. F. Smith, expects him to stay.
It was a bookmakers’ day. Both divi-
sions of the Novice Handicap were capi-
tal races for the Ring. Panaster (15 to 1)
won one and Pearl Verde (8 to 1) the
other, running the “seven” in lmin.
24sec. and lmin. respectively.
The little-fancied Aladdin was chiefly
responsible for the fast pace in the first
division, and he hung on well when col-
lared. Slanchivar was left at the post.
* * * *
The Chanter looks a good horse, and
no doubt he is a good horse —in Mel-
bourne. In the Chelmsford Stakes on
Saturday, according to Badger, the
jockey, he was “bothered by the turns” ;
and he will have to overcome this
awkwardness to have an Epsom chance.
This Page was impressed with Red
Thespian’s running in the Tramway
Handicap and Old Rowley’s in the
Spring Handicap, and now regards Red
Thespian and Old Rowley as about the
best long-priced Epsom-Metrop. double
that can be got.
* * * *
Lochlee (Veilmond-Mooch Along)
was the champion juvenile last spring.
He fell from grace in the autumn
through pronounced failures in big
events at Flemington and Randwick. On
Saturday he surprised by annexing the
Moonee Valley Stakes, worth £7OO and
a £SO trophy.
Established in 1934, the Moonee
Valley Stakes was run over a distance
of 7j furlongs until this year, when the
journey was extended to a mile. Pre-
vious winners were Titanium, Valiant
Chief and Silver Reign, none of whom
developed into a stayer ; and speed may
be the chief asset of Lochlee.
The only penalised candidate of nine
runners, Lochlee conceded 51b. to John
Wilkes. He had given that rival 121 b.
and a beating in the V.R.C. Byron
Moore Stakes at the 1936 Melbourne
Cup meeting; but punters rated the
recent form of John Wilkes so highly
that they backed him down to 5 to 4,
while 12 to 1 was laid against the Veii-
mond colt. Lochlee started at tens, freely
offered.
At the outset of his racing career
Lochlee promised to be a whopping
thoroughbred, but he has not grown to
the anticipated extent. On the other
hand, John Wilkes, according to his
trainer, D. J. Price, now stands 16 hands
2in., and is big in proportion.
There was real merit in Lochlee’s vic-
tory, but it was at least partly due to
Breasley having tried to get through on
the rails with John Wilkes, instead of
going to the outside. John Wilkes had
to corkscrew his way down the short
straight, and suffered defeat by a mere
neck.
Bill Hughes, a Melbourne sporting
pressman, races Lochlee in conjunction
with W. Balloch, an eastern suburbs
baker. They have abandoned the idea
of sending the colt to Sydney. He does
not impress as a Derby aspirant, but may
be given a run in the Victorian classic.
Perhaps the Caulfield Guineas would suit
better. Lochlee is in the Cantala Stakes
with 7st. 111 b. ,
Manolive, winner of the 1936 Perth
Cup, appears to like the Moonee Valley
course. He scored there on August 21
and registered another success on Satur-
day in the middle-distance Budgeree
Handicap, for which Diaphane was
scratched. The opening favorite was £l
Bruno, but as starting time approached
money poured in for Manolive, who
shortened from 7 to 2 to 5 to 2 and
became first choice.
When Manolive drew away from Dic-
tator at the home bend he looked to have
the race in his keeping, but A. T. Cres-
wick’s colt challenged again. Cox drew
the whip on the Groperland stallion. It
wasn’t really needed, and Manolive
scored by 1J lengths, with El Bruno only
a moderate third. Engaged in the Caul-
field Cup at Bst. 51b., Manolive may
take some beating. He has 41b. less in
the Melbourne Cup.
Pantoon, a stable-mate of Wotan (he
is owned by the trainer of that celebrity),
justified his 6-to-4 favoritism by an easy
win in the Corroboree Handicap. Places
were filled by Gay Brocade and Cultra
—Cultra belongs to Jim Scobie, who is
in Sydney with Hua. Present intentions
are to give Pantoon a run in the Victoria
Derby. That would seem to be flying at
too-high game.
The 1936 yearling sales in Sydney were
topped by a colt by Heroic-Desdemona,
for which C. T. Godby paid 1700gns. on
behalf of R. R. Thomas, a wealthy Mel-
bourne patron. Appropriately named
Othello, this handsome chestnut won at
Williamstown in February, but was
beaten on several subsequent occasions
when in solid commission.
More stable-money and public pelf
as well went west over Othello in the
Nulla Nulla Welter. Bookmakers were
reluctant to lay 9 to 4 at the deathknock.
Othello tried to win all the way, but
Ngapuna incessantly worried him, and
drew away at the straight entrance to
score by two lengths. By Drake from
Lagune, the winner is closely related to
Ruach, who was a more than useful
performer.
Valley punters had mixed luck in the
jumping events. Equilibrium (3 to 1,
favorite) led home the Boomerang
Hurdle field, but Montargis, the chief
fancy for the Mount Cotterell Steeple,
shaped miserably. The winner over the
fences was old Venetian, who appears to
have taken a new lease of life. Some
years ago Venetian had a strong Grand
National following.
* * * *
W. S. Hickenbotham, dead as the
result of a motor accident in the Goul-
burn Valley, was a son of the man who
trained Carbine. Tim followed in the
paternal footsteps, taking over the stables
that had sheltered Mentor, Carbine,
Newhaven, Dividend, Blue Spec and
other stars ; but he was never as lucky
as his sire.
(Continued on next page.)
Footbrawl
Geelong, 19-11, proved too strong for
Melbourne, 16-17, in the second V.F.L.
semi-final. Geelong played with rare
dash, and the issue was never in doubt,
although Melbourne made the game
much more spectacular than the first
semi-final. Attendance, 47,730. Next
Saturday, Melbourne meets Collingwood
in the final; the winners play Geelong
in the “grand” final a week later.
* * *
The Springboks gained their 12th vic-
tory in Maoriland by defeating Otago,
holders of the Ranfurly Shield, by the
staggering margin of 40 points—47-7.
Three of the Maoriland team were in
the Otago side, but the winners totted up
seven tries, six converted, two field goals
and two penalties to a field goal and a
penalty. To the end of this match the
South Africans had scored in M.L. the
tremendous total of 326 points to 77.
The 1921 ’Boks in 19 matches could only
manage 244 points to 81.
* * * *
University downed Eastern Suburbs in
the Sydney Rugby Union final. Though
the scores were close —9-5; two tries
and a penalty goal to a converted try—
the ’Varsity forwards were always too
good for the Eastern lot; often they
rucked the ball half the length of the
field, and though Stone, the Australian
hooker, gave East the ball from the set
scrums, the Student breakaways rarely
gave the Eastern insides a chance to get
moving. Solid tackling and defence by
the backs, full-back Westfield particu-
larly, kept the ’Varsity score down.
Uni. meets West next Saturday in a
decider. This season they’ve already
been matched three times, West win-
ning the first and third, 21-7 and 19-17,
Uni. the second, 17-16.
* * * *
“Port Melbourne”: Still casting about
for a way to avoid threatened extinc-
tion, the V.F.A. is calling a conference.
Everything points to the fact that there is
not now room in Melbourne for two
rival Australian codes. The League has
reversed the classical precedent and is
devouring its parent. As fast as they
appear, the League entices away promis-
ing Association players, and the Asso-
ciation has no chance of outbidding its
ungrateful offspring. Merger with the
League seems to be the only solution,
and the longer this is delayed the worse
the terms offered for being swallowed are
likely to be.
0 Continued on page 30.)
Nineteenth Hole
In the opening round of the Australian
golf open Nettlefold, of Tasmania, drove
off from the first and then holed out with
a ball that was not his. He had driven
the pill from the second tee before he
discovered the error. If he had not
driven off the second time he would
have incurred only a penalty of two
strokes, giving him a 73 and second place.
As it was, he was disqualified, and
the ban automatically shut him out of
the amateur tourney.
There were four leading then with 72,
the veteran S.A. pro. Rufus Stewart
among them. Norman von Nida and
the Victorian George Naismith were on
73, H. L. Williams one of a bunch on
74 and Ferrier among the 75’s. The
second round was played in a gale.
Stewart held his position with a 76;
Ferrier had a 74, the day’s best, and
moved into second place. Naismith
(78) was 151 ; Von. Nida (79) 152.
Naismith’s two rounds on the final
day, 74’s both, gave him a card of 299
and the championship. N.S.W. amateurs
McKay and Davies and the Queensland
pro. Walker were all second with 300;
Von Nida (302) third; Ferrier and W.
Bolger among a batch seventh with 307.
H. L. Williams had 311. Naismith is a
Riversdale man, and has twice won the
Vic. professional championship.
$ * * *
“Thirsty Tom”: Those present at
Manly during a recent visitors’ competi-
tion were intrigued to hear that two
players had holed in one. There was sad
disappointment for people who galloped
to the clubhouse with high hopes, for the
players were both associates. I was
not present, but one who was told me
later with tears in his voice that associ-
ates are exempt from the time-honored
observances in such cases. Which raises
again the old question, “Should women
play golf?”
0 Continued on page 30.)
“Pong”: The Australian table-tennis
championships were a gift to the Hun-
garian champions, Szabados and Kelen.
The first-named won the singles from
his fellow-countryman, and the pair took
4he doubles from Green and Comber,
of N.S.W. In the mixed doubles Kelen
and Miss Jacobs (N.S.W.) defeated
Szabados and a Victorienne, Miss Samp-
son. With no outside competitors the
Australian girls collected the women’s
titles, Misses Hollis and Jacobs, of
N.S.W., taking the doubles, and Mrs.
Johnston, of Queensland, the singles.
* * * *
“Tenth Slip”: Dr. Robertson, chair-
man of the Australian Board of Con-
trol, is a prey to doubts whether Eng-
land will ever again produce a cricket
team to make an even go with Austra-
lians. Actually, in the last half-dozen
Test match series England has won 13
games to our nine. Not satisfied with an
assertion which was bound to bring
critics buzzing about his lugs, the doctor
had a go at women’s cricket. Not even
the fact that the Australiennes’ tour con-
vinced diehard journals like the “Times”
that women can play cricket, and
attractively at that, has influenced Dr.
Robertson, who invites the darlings to
“keep out” and says they are one of the
causes “militating against the prestige of
the game,” whatever that means. Also
he hopes that if another “team of young
women” comes to Australia they will go
broke and have to bite the board’s ear for
their fares home. The doctor has not
profited by the sticky example of the
late Mr. Acteeon.
FOR ROSEHILL ON SATURDAY.
Camellia Stakes: Red Thespian ;
next, Black Laughter or Panax.
Guineas: Ajax; next, Bristol or
Birthday Boy.
Hill Stakes: Avenger; next,
Lynch Law.
Spring Handicap: Old Rowley ;
next Fireman.
Highweight Handicap: Panax or
Birthday Boy ; next, Ramdin.
FOR MENTONE.
Yarraman Handicap: Vocal;
next, Campaspe.
Jubilee Cup: Lilirene; next,
Balkan Prince.
Dandenong Welter: Rostrim ;
next, Conandale.
Newry Plate: Great Legend;
next, Sir Grey.


A REAL OLYMPIAN!
V. ISO HOLLO the great Finnish
athlete established a new world's
record of 9 min., 3.8 secs, for the
3000 metres Steeplechase at the
Berlin Olympic Games.
This great performance indi-
cated unusual powers of physical
endurance coupled with speed.
In this branch of athletics
all-round physical soundness,
strength, and tireless perform-
ance are the essentials, and such
qualities also characterise the
champion—
Olympic Tyres
for Cars, Trucks and Cycles!
“INVINCIBLE”
SINCE
190 b
5 YEARS’
GVARANTF.I
INVINCIBLE
MARINE
ENGINES.
20 four-cycle sizes: 3 to 100 horse-
power in 1,2, 4, 6 and 8 cylinder
models. Write for illustrated Cata-
logue to-day.
INVINCIBLE MOTORS PTY., LTD.,
P 3 North George Street. Sydney, N.S.W.
X 69
U*
r O 0
t s
S s
m
i *
S:k
73
hh\h°
Q\ h
\o«
■«A **
e of'' e
rt n eotW l ° tV»o«“ \s
t'tooV •*•/ >«
cW' ce
ylQ\il
>xl
G\*l
a
?'
G 1
- ffig
mm
?; . ..• ;;®>?
£&&&
V£
m
Orient Steam Navigation Company
Limited. Incorporated in England.
TONNAGE 2*25,400 5*20,000 1*15,000
Under the Whip
Hua has been left in the Metropolitan,
in which he has 7st. 51b. As he is a first
acceptor for the Caulfield Guineas he is
unlikely to start in the handicap ; but if
he did he would deserve to be at a short
price, provided he is as good a colt as his
owner and trainer think he is, for
present indications are that the field will
be below the average. In former days,
when the distance was a mile and a half,
owners of staying three-year-olds used to
make a point of running them in the
Metrop. Poseidon ran second in it to
Solution in 1906, after winning the A.J.C.
Derby, and the experience did not do
him a particle of harm ; going to Mel-
bourne he won the two Cups. And the
Epsom should have attractions for
owners of three-year-olds now barred
from the Derbies or deficient in staying
power. It is a great betting race, and in
a year like the present a representative
three-year-old with 7st. 61b. or so would
have a great chance. Quintus (1923)
was the last three-year-old of any note
that tackled the Epsom. He had 7st. 51b.
and ran second to Claro, who had Bst.
71b. Claro proved himself the best rniler
in Australia that year—he won the Can-
tala Stakes with 9st. 51b. —and at the
weight Quintus would have won any
ordinary Epsom. Asa four-year-old he
won the Newmarket with Bst., giving
Blackadder lllb., and that same autumn
Blackadder won the Epsom with Bst. lib.
* * * *
Stevenage’s successes at Williamstown
and Caulfield in fair company have brought
him very little support for the Caulfield
Cup. This is rather surprising, for on
each occasion he won like a racehorse,
and he is a young horse who seems to
be improving with every gallop. He is
a four-year-old stallion by Verbius-
Tinytown. Sons of Verbius stay pretty
well; for example, Verberry, who was
second with 7st. 31b. to Curator (7st.
111 b.) in the 1 rnes Plate at Randwick
in May. It was an 11-furlongs race,
run in 2min. 19sec., and Verberry looked
very unlucky. With Bst. 41b. Curator
won the Coronation Cup (12 furlongs)
at the next Randwick meeting, and he is
now a strong tip for the Metropolitan, in
which he has Bst. 71b. Asa two-year-old
Stevenage was third three times and un-
placed three times; as a three-year-old
he won twice and was second in his only
three starts. Certainly they were only
six-furlong affairs at country meetings ;
but in the V.A.T.C. Heatherlie Handi-
cap he demonstrated that he can go a
mile and a quarter and finish strong.
* * * *
At the V.R.C. spring meeting, no race
—and there are 24 on the programme—
will be worth less than £SOO to the owner
of the winner. The minimum per handi-
cap is £7OO, rising to £IOOO for each of the
w.f.a. races (Mackinnon Stakes, Linlith-
gow Stakes and Fisher Plate), to £ISOO for
the Maribyrnong Plate, £2OOO for the
Oaks, £2500 for the Cantala, £SOOO for
the Derby and £IO,OOO, “with trophy
valued at £200,” for the Melbourne Cup.
All this though the s.p. bookie plies his
nefarious trade. The Stevens Govern-
ment should take a good look at that
V.R.C. programme.
* * * *
Rosehill on September 18 will have the
last meeting of any importance before
the big round at Randwick It is interest-
ing to compare the prize-money offered
with what the V.R.C. is putting up for its
i, „ .• _ f ->
last meeting the date 1S October 2
prior to the Caulfield and Melbourne
Cups. Rosehill offers £787 10s. for its
Guineas which need tr> draw thp best
Guineas, wtuen used to draw tne best
three-year-olds . of die season. 1 he
V.R.C. is providing £IOOO for the Edward
Manifold Stakes, for fillies. The Hill
Stakes at Rosehill, w.f.a., is worth
£6OO. The Melbourne Stakes, also w.f.a.,
carries £l5O more. For the Camellia
Stakes, supposed to be a trial for the
Epsom, £2OO is the money; for the
Spring Handicap, once a Metrop. pre-
liminary, £250 ; and the Highweight Han-
dicap and the Hurdle Race rewards dimin-
ish to £l5O apiece. The four races at
Flemington other than the Manifold and
Melbourne Stakes are worth £SOO each.
Is it any wonder that Victorian horses in
Sydney for the spring meetings will be
confined to two or three three-year-olds
and two or three handicap horses?
* *
After all, broadcasting of races is a
shabby business if done without leave
and payment of fair dues. Said Justice
Evatt in the High Court case:
Only an insufficiently disciplined desire
for business profit and an almost reckless
disregard, not so much of legal rights as of
the ordinary decencies and conventions
which must be observed as between neigh-
bors, could have induced the broadcasting
company to cause the loss to the plaintiff
which has been proved in this case.
The business becomes shabbier still when
tipsters are allowed, at so much a
(Continued on next page.)


SILVER
EDGE"
TRADE VMARH REGISTERED
THE RAY BE ST OS CO.
BRAKE
LINING
MM
ci
MOTORISTS
STOP?
CAN
YOU
Have you experienced the uncanny feeling of pressing your brake pedal
and nothing happens?
Do not wait for this experience to be yours, but have your brakes
watched and adjusted at definite periods in the same way as you attend
to the oiling of your engine.
See that your brakes are fitted with “RAYBESTOS” BRAKE LININGS
and so ensure reliability, uniform wear and safety.
RAYBESTOS-BELACO, LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Factory Rep.: JOHN ARNOLD, G.P.O. Box 71, MELBOURNE, VIC.
For YEARS of ACCQBAc v
An accurate tyre gauge is a real asset. A gauge
you can rely on for years is worth far more
than one that is unreliable after a few
months’ use. Pay an extra shilling or
two for a Kismet “CADET”
and enjoy those extra
years of accuracy.
14
TY
Calibrated 0-501 b. in
lib. units clearly
marked. In neat
leather wallet.
Factory Representative:
JOHN ARNOLD,
P.O. Box 71,
Melbourne, Australia.
Manufacturers:
WILLIAM TURNER &
BRO., LTD.,
Eyre Works, Sheffie’i,
England.
minute, to hurl their brazen claims, and
their impudent appeals to mugs, through
the defenceless ether. It is an insult to
the memory of Marconi to place his
noble invention at the service of these
blatant parasites.
* * * *
“Sturt”: W. B. Carr, chairman of S.A.
Jockey Club, issued a serious appeal, at
its annual meeting, for the Government
to help to drive people back to the race-
course. The few who really care for
horses cannot apparently carry on with-
out the support of the many who want
only to gamble and are content, now
that betting shops are everywhere, to
spend the afternoon there, without over-
head expense and independent of
weather. The clubs have reduced stakes
heavily, Carr says, but still make a loss
on meetings, and the outlook is “far
from bright” unless the Government will
do something, such as closing the betting-
shops at noon on race-days. But
wouldn’t that start the old illegal betting
all over again?
* # * *
“Glenelg”: The problem of getting
people out to the racecourses continues
to worry Adelaide race clubs. It is the
custom in South Australia to draw for
barrier positions when the acceptances
are published, and this suits the betting
shops to perfection. The Port Adelaide
club has resolved to try to queer the pitch
for these concerns by withholding the
result of the draw until just before the
races, and attempts to transmit them out-
side are to be checked.
* * * *
“Town Moor”: The Doncaster St.
Leger over a mile and 1472 yards always
calls for a stayer. This year the winner
of the season’s last classic turned up in
an 18-to-l shot, Chumleigh, owned by
Lord Glanely. Midday Sun, Mrs.
Miller’s Derby winner, started at threes,
but was pushed into third place by Lord
Derby’s Fair Copy, quoted at sixes. Bet-
ting was heavy, and altogether members
of the Ring can face even a hard winter
with confidence.
$
“Retired Urger”: A little turn-up
reminiscent of the golden days of coun-
try racing attracted attention at a Sydney
suburban meeting. A rider weighed out
with his bridle, which is not usually taken
to the scales. The saddle was over it on
his arm, and it was not spotted. After
winning the race the boy, an apprentice,
could not draw the weight. Asa last
resource the bridle, allowable in such cir-
cumstances, was brought, and with it the
weight was just registered. Sometimes a
rider sweats a few ounces in a hard finish,
and if he has weighed out on the mark
he may be disqualified for short weight.
In this case the boy was innocent of evil
intent, but it was a near thing for backers
of his mount.
Footbrawl
Southland (M.L.) football is usually as
dour as the Southland climate, and the
Springboks found this out in their match
with the most southerly of all Rugby
communities. They won, but the locals
scored 17 points to their 30, the highest
provincial total against the visitors.
’Boks scored seven tries, Brand nine
points in goals, and Southland three tries,
one converted and two p.gs.
* * * *
“Babinda”: Union Rugby continues
to make steady progress outside Bris-
bane. The latest recruit is Cairns, which
used to play the Union game until the
war gave the League a chance it was
quick to take. Organisation of the new
Union is almost complete, and grounds
have been arranged for. If Cairns goes
back to the amateur code it is a cer-
tainty other N.Q. centres will follow.
The Rugby Union has a great chance
here, but it will have to do more than
just accept the Cairns affiliation —send
teams to the North and bring teams to
Brisbane periodically.
* * * *
“Spike”: Frank O’Brien, one of the
finest athletes N.S.W. has produced, has
retired. For seven years he has held
the State pentathlon, and in all has won
one Australian and 14 State champion-
ships for middle-distance running and
hurdles. He is a noted Rugby Union
player also, and this year represented
N.S.W. and Australia against the Spring-
boks as a wing three-quarter.
* * * *
N.S.W. Rugby Union lost one of its
old-time stalwarts when S. A. Tiley
called it a day at 76. English-born, he
came to Australia in 1881, and became a
member of the Wallaroo club long be-
fore the days of district football. He
played for N.S.W. against Queensland
in 1885, and against Stoddart’s British
side three years later. He represented
the State in rowing and tennis as well,
turning finally to golf in later years.
* * * *
“Gate”: The Australian Rugby
Leaguers are to reach England on Fri-
day and play their first match against
Leigh, a Lancashire club, on Satur-
day. After that matches at the rate of
three every eight days will keep them
“Good shot, Dig.! Ere, take it!”
busy until the closing game against Huns-
let in Yorkshire on December 27. Tests
will be played on October 16, November
13 and December 18 —at Swinton, Head-
ingley and Huddersfield. The side then
goes to the South of France, after an ex-
hibition game in Paris, for half a dozen
matches.
* * * *
“Pointer”: Sydney Rugby League has
been considering the case of a player
charged with “wasting time.” He was
alleged to have given his side a rest by
pretending to be hurt and then resuming
his place on the field as soon as the
referee blew for resuming play. In the
golden days of the Rugby Union, when
only one ball was used and the kick into
touch was allowable from any part of
the field, a hard -pressed side a point or
two ahead had time-wasting down to a
fine art. The player with the ball hoofed
it over the line for all he was worth,
and if he was a good kick and had the
wind behind him the joke was often
worth a minute or more to his side.
Nineteenth Hole
rpt „ „ * c
The amateur foursomes first of the
Australian golf championships, played at
Kensington (N.S.W.), went to the young
Victorians W. D. Wishart and W. A.
Higgins with a card of 152 for 36 holes,
Ferrier and Thompson and Keane and
Hattersley tied for second place with
153. Considering the calibre of the
players the golf was not paralysingly
good. The winners are both ex-caddies
and members of Kingswood, Melbourne’s
youngest club.
Another ex-caddie in T. D. Bourke,
took the purse of £25 for professionals
with a 72 for 36 holes. Again there was
a rush for second place, Mackenzie, W.
Bolger, Petterson, Gray and Holder all
returning cards of 73 and dividing £25.
N.S.W. did well in the inter-State
matches, beating the Victorian and
Queensland amateurs and the Victorian
and South Australian professionals,
Jim Ferrier defeated Williams one up
in their match, his first win from
the Victorian in seven tries. D.
von Nida, brother of the professional,
showed himself a class player for
Queensland amateurs, while Rufus
Stewart, of South Australia, came back
to his old-time form among the profes-
sionals. Queensland won from South
Australia by four matches to three in the
amateur event, but went down 3.1 in the
professional meeting.
“Divot Digger”: Hitherto a profes-
sional winning the open golf champion-
ship was handed the lordly sum of £5O,
and out of that had to pay travelling
costs from, perhaps, S. Aus. to Sydney,
living accommodation and caddies. The
prize has been raised to £75. Little
enough, especially when one realises that
when an amateur wins the title, as often
happens, the golf heads put the profes-
sional first prize back in the sock and
stand that much to the good.
* * * *
“De Vere”: The Australian Golf
Council has issued the rather invidious
statement that the team of amateurs to
tour Britain will be selected not only for
golfing ability but for social qualifica-
tions. What these qualifications are the
A.G.U. does not say, but it seems absurd
to leave out a good player because his
manners fall short of Brahmin require-
ments. In any case, such a player could
be coached up before leaving for Eng-
land. The Royal Navy has recently
announced that ratings gaining commis-
sioned ranks from the lower deck will
in future be tutored in table etiquette
before being turned loose on the gun
room, always noted for its social hauteur.
Similarly our roughies could be instructed
in the art of eating peas without the help
of knives and putting finger bowls to
their proper use instead of drinking out
of them.
* * * *
“Carnoustie”: Those benighted folk
who advocate temperance so intemper-
ately will no doubt make the most of the
result of a recent golf match in Eng-
land. A scratch player and a long-
marker were matched for £2O a side,
the scratch man having to sink a stiff
whisky at each hole. He had to be car-
ried back from the sixteenth, and the
long-marker collected. The loser’s card
is worth recording as showing the
gradual ascendancy of the Demon
Drink. It read: 4,4, 3,5, 5,7, 10, 9, 9
—56 out. On the home run the figures
were: 11, 9, 15, 14, 18, 27—94. Need-
less to say he was a fushionless Southron
loon. Any self-respecting Scot under
the conditions would have returned an
under-par card.
Miscellaneous
“Dagger”: Maoriland has been in-
vited by the N.S.W. Sailing League to
send an 18-footer to the world’s cham-
pionship races for craft of this kind in
Sydney Harbor next February. M.L. has
no boats on the lines of those so popu-
lar in this country, though there is a
half-decked class which approximates to
our designs. An attempt is to be made
to build a boat on the Australian model,
and, failing this, one of the local pattern
will be sent over.
* * * *
“Splash”: Possible that the M.L. surf
lifesaving team that was to come over
for the 150th anniversary jamboree in
February may have to stay at home. It
has been discovered that M.L. methods
differ considerably from the Australian
brand, and judging, especially in such


CRAWLED UPSTAIRS
LIKE A CRAB
Owing to Rheumatism
in Her Knees
It was not a very dignified way of going
upstairs, but she had rheumatism in her knees,
and it was the best she could do at the time.
Since then, she has been taking Kruschen Salts,
and now feels 20 years younger. Read her
letter: —
“I had very'painful gout in my big toe and
could only get upstairs like a crab owing to
rheumatism in my knees. It is over three years
ago since I commenced taking Kruschen Salts.
I must say on damp days I still have a little
gout, but my knees are quite better. I am over
60 years of age, have a complexion like a girl’s,
and feel very fit. I am fully repaid for taking
a half-teaspoonful of Salts each morning in a
cup of hot water.” —(Mrs.) A.W.
The pains and stiffness of rheumatism are
caused by deposits of needle-pointed uric acid
crystals in the muscles and joints. The six salts
in Kruschen stimulate your liver and kidneys
to healthy, regular action; assist them to get
rid of the excess uric acid which is the cause
of all your suffering.
Business Going West!
Yes to 6AM
The station that no busi-
ness man should ignore.
It’s the station with a puli
in tile country districts
of W.A. . . . the station
that will buck up your
sales.
6AM
Prince’s Chambers,
William Street,
Perth,
Western Australia.
You will
END
Your
RHEUMATISM
WITH THIS HEW
GERMAN TREATMENT
. . Tests proved it successful
A new natural
treatment is now
available to Aus-
tralian sufferers.
It has proved
amazingly suc-
cessful abroad,
being recom-
mended by 2,385
European spec-
ialists. From all
over the world,
joyous ex-suffer-
ers write telling
how it has
brought magical
relief front rheu-
matism and allied
complaints such
as swollen joints,
lumbago, sciatica and neuritis.
REMOVES THE CAUSE.
This new rheumatism corrective,
which was perfected by Carl Von
Ehrlich, removes the underlying
cause. That is why its relief is per-
manent! It stimulates the blood to
dissolve the razor-edged uric acid
crystals which cause such fiery agony.
That is why it brings such amazingly
quick relief from pain.
SCIENTIFIC—YET SIMPLE.
Alagen is a rheumatic treatment which
is entirely free from habit-forming
drugs, liniments, plasters and elec-
tricity ; a treatment which is perfectly
simple to use—yet so scientifically
planned that it is ABSOLUTELY
EFFECTIVE. Thousands of sufferers
have been successfully treated with-
out any interference with their daily
occupation.
FREE
3-DAY
TREATMENT
To let Australian sufferers prove for
themselves the remarkably quick way
in which this simple treatment starts
to clear up rheumatism, lumbago,
neuritis, sciatica and gout, 10,000 trial
treatments are being distributed
FREE. Post the coupon for yourß,
to-day. With the treatment you will
be sent a copy of the informative
book, “All About Rheumatism,” which
tells of Von Ehrlich’s epoch-making
researches. The trial treatment is
free, the book is free. There is no
obligation whatever. Clip out and post
the coupon—and start on the road to
health—NOW'
CLIP HERE
Charlton Sinclair Ltd., Dept. ®®/8.
26 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Please send me FREE a sample of the
Alagen Treatment and a copy of the
book, All About Rheumatism” I
enclose 6d. in stamps for packing and
postage. lam under no obligation.
NAME
ADDRESS.
* 24f MILES PER GALLON.
LONG LIFE 6-CYL. ENGINE.
HYDRAULIC BRAKES.
112" WHEELBASE. ALL WEATHER HOOD.
SPORTS CAR PERFORMANCE.
LOW INITIAL COST.
■
This Fine Hew Chevrolet
Costs Only £304
THE CHEVROLET ROADSTER COMBINES BIG CAR COMFORT AND SPORTS CAR
PERFORMANCE WITH SMALL CAR COST, ECONOMY AND EASE OF HANDLING.
£294 is a small price to pay for the great deal which this
fine Chevrolet Roadster offers you. There isn’t another
car anywhere near its price which offers you the size,
the low initial cost and low operating cost, plus the other
fine Chevrolet features : 6-cylinder o.h.v. engine giving
smooth economical power ; Synchro-mesh gears giving
easy, silent gear changing ; Perfected Hydraulic Brakes,
which provide safe, even stopping; “Armourplate”
Safety Glass in Windscreen and in No-draught vanes ;
Hypoid Rear Axle, providing a low centre of gravity ;
“Relax-o-form” ltather upholstery, giving perfect
seating comfort; No-draught Ventilation provides
healthy interior atmosphere without draught when the
hood is up and acts as wind deflector when hood is
down; and, on the Master de Luxe model, Independent
Front Wheel Springing and Super-safe Shock-proof
Steering. These are just a few of Chevrolet’s features.
Before you buy any other low priced car, remember the
fine value in Chevrolet and keep in mind the fact that
efficient Chevrolet service is obtainable all over Aus-
tralia, that Chevrolets can be bought very easily under
the Confidential G.M.A.C. Convenient Payment Plan,
and that Chevrolet’s resale value is higher in proportion
to its price than any other car.
See Chevrolet at the local dealer’s showrooms. Prices
from £294 (plus sales tax).
GENERAL MOTOR S—H OLDEN’S LIMITED
This petrol consumption u-as registered in a recent test by officials
of a leading oil company.
See how the Chevrolet
Roadster gives complete
all-weather protection.
TWO CARS IN ONE FOR
THE LONG - DISTANCE
DRIVER—The new 2-SPEED
REAR AXLE, now available
as optional equipment on all
Chevrolet models, gives 15-
20% fuel economy on long
trips, higher performances in
traffic and on hills and less
wear on the engine. “It’s well
worth the little extra in the
long run.” Ask the dealer
for a demonstration.
i
Your Mcney Goes Farther in a General Motors’ Car.
THE 1937 “AIR CHIEF’*
CAR RADIO, specially de-
signed for Chevrolet, has con-
trols to match the instrument
panel. Two models are avail-
able. The two-unit. Set with
separate receiver and 8-inch
dynamic speaker, and the
Single Unit Set whichcapacity
houses both receiver and
speaker. The “Air Chief” with
six valves, gives performance
equal to the best home radio.
A demonstration will be gladly
given.
CONSULT YOUR LOCAL AUTHORISED
CHEVROLET DEALER.
Sold and Serviced by Chevrolet dealers throughout Australia.
matters as resuscitation, will be difficult.
M.L. swimmers are to be asked to adopt
the methods in vogue in Australia.
* * * *
“Ping”: Queensland is doing itself
proud. It collected the Australian
hockey championship, and has followed
that up with the ping-pong—sorry, table
tennis—championship of this fair land.
The team was unbeaten, and was fol-
lowed home by N.S.W., Victoria and
South Aus.
“Mere Male”: The girl cricketers have
returned to Australia full of praise for
their treatment by the Up Aboves and
delighted with the success of the tour
from a cricket point of view. Of the 21
games played they won 14, drew six and
lost one. They undoubtedly did a lot to
put women’s cricket on the map in Eng-
land. Even the mighty “Times” devoted
a subleader to them, and confessed that
it had been converted from a scoffer at
women’s cricket to an ardent upholder of
it. A huge boom in the feminine side of
the game and a sharp rise in the shares
of the tinned-food industries are indi-
cated for this country within the next few
years.
* * ;jc .5
“S.T.S.”: What does it cost to main-
tain a turf cricket pitch at places like
Fremantle, Geelong, Eden, Newcastle
and Rockhampton? Port Adelaide city
council has turned down a request for
one at the seaside reserve of Largs Bay.
The city engineer said it can be laid
down for £2B, but experience at the Port’s
own oval has shown that it would cost
about £2OO a year to keep up.
* ' * * *
“Glenelg”: The South Australians are
doing things properly in connection
with the Grimmett-Richardson testi-
monial. The Cricket Association is mak-
ing the pair life members and heading
the subscription list with £2OO. Both
men are outstanding personalities in the
game, and have done much for South
Australian cricket. Here’s wishing them
a bumper attendance and fine weather
plus a couple of thoroughly representa-
tive teams to provide a worthy spec-
tacle for the public.
* * * *
“Mid Leg”: The list of applicants for
the managership of the next Australian
Eleven is growing ; the latest candidate
is Tom Howard, who was the first offi-
cial treasurer to accompany an Aus-
tralian team to England—that was in
1930. Howard was an inter-State player
in his day, and of late years has been
in the forefront of Australian cricket ad-
ministration, among his jobs being repre-
sentation of the Maoriland Cricket Coun-
cil, delegate to the Board of Control and
State selector. But as the practice has
been to let these managerial plums go
round, it is surely Queensland’s turn.
And as an old player and administrator
Roger Hartigan’s qualifications are un-
exceptionable.
* 4 * *
“Aigburth”: A cricket record which
has stood for over 60 years has gone west
this season. James Parks, of Sussex, has
made over 3000 runs for the season and
taken over 100 wickets. Before that
the 2622 runs and 129 wickets put up
by W. G. Grace in 1876 topped the list.
Grace was a champion of champions,
and Parks is just a good county player,
of whom the English selectors do not
seem to think much when picking Test
teams. Is Parks a better batsman to-day
than Grace was then or was the bowling
of the past more formidable than the
stuff served up as first-class to-day? I
leave it to the experts.
* *
“Witherin’ Tyke”: English cricket
experts are fussing over the devices em-
ployed by bowlers to keep a gloss on the
ball to enable the swerve to operate.
Spin bowlers, for their part, do their
best to roughen the surface so as to
improve the grip and get greater break.
The use of resin for this purpose has
been abolished by law. as has the rais-
ing of the seam with the thumbnail, but
there are always ways of working the
oracle. One rough-as-bags North
Country pro. of the past who suffered
from chronic alcoholic catarrh is said
to have always used his fingers as a
pocket handkerchief when he wanted to
send down a real snifter.
* * * *
“Aigburth”: That reference to village
cricket (B. 1/ 9 / ’37) is well timed. Its
champions prate of carefree, fast scor-
ing or no scoring at all so long as all
hands have a merry go. I’ve just been
reading a contemporary account of a
three-days match in 1837 between the
villages of Dagnall and Two Waters
clubs. Two Waters batted all one day
and half the next for 54! After that
Dagnall went in at three o’clock on the
second day and shattered all precedent
by making 188 by 2 p.m. the third day.
Why, some Test matches are as fast
as that!
.• •<* .J
“Joe the Gun”: One of these pro-
fessors who are always finding out
things everyone knows has been telling
the papers that, in dice-throwing, sixes,
fives and fours are more likely to turn
up than the lower numbers, because the
little holes marking the numbers make
the dice lighter on the high faces than on
the low, there being more of them. As
an old entrepreneur of the tats I would
inform the professor that this alleged
fault is easily corrected. All that is
necessary is to clean the original paint
off the little pits and repaint with red
lead blackened with bitumen. This
properly done, any side of a cube can
be fixed to land face downwards, and
smart mugs who grab the ivories and cut
them open to look for the lead loading
they have read about find their labor in
vain.


SHADOW
SHOWS
“Tall Timbers.”
TIMBER MAGNATE, Harvey Adams
HIS ADOPTED DAUGHTER,
Shirley Ann Richards
HIS BUSINESS RIVALS .... Ronald
Whelan, Campbell Copelin
RASCALLY FOREMAN, Frank Harvey
HIS WRONGED SISTER, Aileen Britton
It is noteworthy and pleasing that ever
since Cinesound —the only production unit
still seriously at work in the Australian
field—made its first film each one has
been an improvement on the one preced-
ing it. This is due in a great measure
to increasingly efficient directing, with a
determination to eliminate earlier faults.
The chief feature of its latest opus
is the remarkable advance made in the
technical sphere. Aided by faultless
photography, the many tree-felling
sequences have been given the fullest
effect. The big moment in the film is a
timber “drive” — i.e., the felling of a
limited forest area by using one falling
tree to skittle others in a row that have
been half cut through—and this has been
done on a bigger scale and with a much
more convincing effect than anything
Hollywood, with all its resources, has
ever managed. The effect as a succession
of great trees thunder to the ground is
electrical.
The story, frankly melodramatic and
not remarkable fo*- its originality, fits
“TALL TIMBERS .”
Frank Harvey and
Campbell Copelin
Joe Valli and
Letty Croydon
Frank Leighton and Shirley Ann
Richards.
this type of film well enough. It con-
cerns the rivalry between two logging
firms for a big contract. One concern
adopts honest methods, the other knows
no scruples. The foreman of the outfit
which plumps for probity is a dyed-in-the-
wool villain who is in the pay of the
other crowd. The hero, whose identity
it won’t take a genius to guess, mixes
the hard-fisted stuff with romance, and
there is some cross-play with the amorous
tendencies of the younger partner in the
“crook” film, all of which is straightened
out to everyone’s satisfaction.
Acting, with negligible exceptions, is
very sound. Harvey Adams and Frank
Harvey both turn in clinking perform-
ances, and Campbell Copelin, debonair
and natural, fits in well. Frank Leighton
in the romantic lead passes muster,
though he spoilt what should have been
a tense scene in a hut by unaccountably
smirking at the villain immediately prior
to administering the king-hit. Ronald
Whelan is at home in the role of a suave
bad man, and Joe Valli adds a leavening
of comedy in partnership with a bullocky
who looks and talks —with necessary
reservations —like one. Shirley Ann
Richards combines charm with a dis-
tinct improvement in acting, and Aileen
Britton, a newcomer to the screen, shows
promise. Ken G. Hall directed ; photo-
graphy by George Heath; settings by
Eric Thompson. Previewed at the Syd-
ney Liberty.
“Maytime.”
PRIMA DONNA, Jeanette MacDonald
BARITONE Nelson Eddy
IMPRESARIO John Barrymore
M AESTRO Herman Bing
After a spate of torch-swing-and-crqon
cacophony this production comes to the
screen as manna in the Euterpean desert.
It is easily the best musical play Holly-
wood has yet produced. Interpreted by
two accomplished singers, with inci-
dental music and several melodious airs
by Sigmund Romberg and Herbert
Stothart, it is a triumph of that well-
considered sort one has come to expect
from M.-G.-M,
The musical content has been strength-
ened by the interpolation of an excerpt
from the last act of “Les Huguenots”
and an excellent arrangement of Tschai-
kowsky’s Fifth Symphony, scored as a
fictitious opera, male choruses being sup-
plied by the Don Cossack choir. In
addition, there are Planquette’s “Episode
Patriotique,” Delibes’s “Les Filles de
Cadiz” and the “Santa Lucia,” all sung
with verve by Miss MacDonald. Nelson
Eddy, too, gives of his vocal best, one
of his most attractive numbers being a
potpourri of operatic arias sung in glori-
fication of ham-and-eggs.
So far as acting goes the principals
have never done better. In a Parisian
cafe scene, when the baritone sings a
rollicking drinking song to his fellow-
students, and at the colorful St. Cloud
Fair (this lovely setting is a mass of
spring blossoms), they both capture the
joyous and carefree atmosphere.
The simple, human story ranges from
lighthearted gaiety to tragedy. Miss
MacDonald first appears—in convincing
make-up—as a gentle old lady who, in
advising a girl who must choose between
love and a singing career, reveals her-
self as a once-famous opera singer. The
story then casts back to the days of
Louis Napoleon and the
ex-prima donna’s budding
romance, which is scotched
by a loveless marriage of
duty to the middle-aged
impresario who has guided
her to fame ; through her
years of unhappy success,
to the meeting of the
lovers on the operatic
stage and its
tragic sequel.
The epilogue
is a flash-back
to the opening
scene and th«
solving of the
young girl’s
problem.
John Barry-
more gives a
polished per-
formance as
the suave jut
jealous hus-
band, and by
his skill even
succeeds in
evoking sym-
pathy. He r-
man Bing adds
a leavening of
comedy with his facial contortions when
talking, and Rafaela Ottiano merits a
word of praise for a finely-etched pic-
ture as the soprano’s sympathetic dresser.
At Sydney Liberty.
“High, Wide and Handsome.”
PIONEER OIL PROSPECTOR,
Randolph Scott
HIS SHOW-GIRL WIFE, Irene Dunne
HER MEDICINE-CARAVAN DAD,
Raymond Walburn
HONKY-TONK PROPRIETOR,
Akim Tamiroff
RAILROAD KING .. Alan Mowbray
HIS HEELER Charles Bickford
This curious hotchpotch started out,
apparently, to be a historical romance
based on incidents connected with the
discovery of oil in Pennsylvania, es-
pecially the construction of a pipeline
from wells to refinery so as to avoid the
exactions of a railway co. which charged
“all the traffic will bear.” But it was
felt necessary to jazz up such dull stuff
with music by Jerome Kern and lyrics
by Oscar Hammerstein 11. and bolster
it with mellerdrammer of the type in
which an ex-show-girl wife neglected by
her husband runs away to join a circus.
Little regard is paid to facts and prob-
abilities. There is a series of shots show-
ing the pioneer oil-driller being laughed
at by the peasantry, on the score that
even if he strikes oil there’s no way of
refining it and no particular use for it.
When he does strike oil the same peas-
antry go mad with joy and let the muck
rain all over their best bibs and tuckers,
the newspapers immediately refer to
“black gold,” and it transpires that there
are refineries all over the place.
However, the building of the pipeline,
in the face of continual attacks by thugs
in the employ, is well done, and
the theatrical finale, where the prospec-
tors dish the railroads by taking the line
straight over a tall cliff with the assist-
ance of the entire personnel of a big
circus, plus horses and elephants, may be
forgiven for its picturesqueness.
Randolph Scott does well enough as
the grim-faced prospector, but his love
scenes with Miss Dunne, frequent and
protracted, are merely an irritating inter-
ference with the action. Dorothy
Lamour is lugged into the plot as a
honky-tonk girl, whose adventures also
have little bearing on the plot. Miss
Dunne has a pleasant and sprightly voice,
and she doesn’t croon, so her vocal con-
tributions, though they, again, are irrele-
vant, are not otherwise objectionable.
But in the direction there appear to have
been too many cooks. At Sydney Prince
Edward.
“A Family Affair.”
COUNTY JUDGE, Lionel Barrymore
HIS WIFE Spring Byington
MARRIED DAUGHTER, Julie Haydon
UNMARRIED DAUGHTER,
Cecilia Parker
YOUNG SON Mickey Roopey
POLITICAL OPPONENTS .. Charley
Grapewin and Selmer Jackson
M.-G.-M. films are usually notable for
good casting. This cleverly-constructed
domestic drama is no ex-
ception to the rule. The
story is one of family life.
The old Judge, following
what he believes to be his
plain duty, has given a
decision which has an-
noyed hfs fellow-citizens.
He is subjected to threats
that he will not be re-
n o m i n ated,
and that a
scandal involv-
ing his married
daughter will
be given news-
paper pub-
lic it y. His
young son is
incensed be-
cause the
Ju d g e’s un-
popularity re-
acts on his
affairs. Youn-
ger daughter
is peeved be-
cause the' de-
cision means
that her young
man loses his
jo b. Climax
comes at a political convention where
the old Judge, who has been furi-
ously active while seemingly inert,
engineers a public reconciliation be-
tween his elder daughter and her hus-
band, . spiking the threatened scandal-
mongering, and proves that his decision,
far from injuring the district, has saved
it from utter ruin.
Honors go to Barrymore and young
Rooney, but every part is capably and
naturally presented, and the picture given
of home life in an average, steady-going,
middle-class American household is a
wholesome antidote to the glimpses of
the froth on the top and the scum at the
bottom which predominate in Holly-
wood’s interpretation of American society.
At Sydney Civic.
“The Cherokee Strip.”
HARD-RIDTNG LAWYER, Dick Foran
SELECTOR’S DAUGHTER, Jane Bryan
Period, 1889 ; scene, Oklahoma. The
territory has just been thrown open to
selection (the race across the prairie when
the starter’s gun was fired is a picturesque
incident of the film) and Big Rock is a
mere camp of tents and a few shacks.
Hither comes the large, genial Mr. Foran,
singing as he rides his intelligent little
cream horse across a river bed. A rifle
barrel slides over a rock. Bang! The
dust flies out of Mr. Foran’s hat. Un-
harmed, he stalks his enemy and finds
him, a kid of seven or eight, but a dead
shot who does that sort of thing to scare
people. While Mr. Foran is giving the
youngster what he deserves, up comes
beauteous and indignant sister. A little
later arrives the villain of the piece, a
wicked land agent, who has many an
old score to settle with the upright Mr.
Foran. Thus the stage is set, and the
working out is according to the best
canons of Rex Beach, Zane Grey and co.
Foran’s pleasant tenor voice is not
unduly obtruded, and he doesn’t croon.
Action is fast and furious, and direction
capable. At Sydney Civic.
“San Quentin.”
CAPTAIN OF PRISON YARD,
Pat O’Brien
HIS LIEUTENANT, Barton Mac Lane
CONVICT Humphrey Bogart
CONVICT’S SISTER .. Ann Sheridan
Meaty melodrama, this, wherein strong
men jostle each other at every turn.
With a huge penitentiary as its realistic
setting it is no pretty story that is told.
Liberally spiced with excitement, the film
moves rapidly and logically. It gives
evidence of painstaking attention to de-
tail, and the casting director has made
no mistake —his convict types in particu-
lar are drawn convincingly.
The newly-appointed Captain of the
Prison Yard, a former army officer, has
been selected because of his special
ability in handling men, an attribute lack-
ing in his bullying lieutenant, whom he
has displaced in the job. The jealousy
of the lieutenant makes his task of re-
form no easier, and when his girl’s vicious
brother gets a “stretch” in his prison
complications ensue. Put as a “trusty” in
a road gang, the bad lad is on the way
to better things, but he weakly falls to
the wiles of a fellow-convict, who tells
him the captain is dishonorably treating
his sister. Together they escape, and
events move swiftly to a dramatic climax.
Pat O’Brien, giving an impression of
restrained strength, does a good job, and
Humphrey Bogart is at home in his
familiar role of an irreconcilable enemy
of society. Barton Mac Lane and Ann
Sheridan give capable support. At
Sydney Capitol.
“Speed to Spare.”
CHAMPION MOTOR-DRIVER.
Charles Quigley
HIS COCKY YOUNG BROTHER,
Eddie Nugent
SHOWGIRL Dorothy Wilson
This motor-racing opus is lifted a bit
out of the ruck by Nugent’s acting of a
character whose conceit is colossal, and
whose hide is made of chilled steel. He s
a driver of midget racing cars, hated by
everyone in that little sporting circle.
Champion in a very much higher sphere
—the sort of driver who qualifies for and
wins the Indianapolis 500 —discovers
that this objectionable young cub is his
brother. Without disclosing the relation-
ship he sets out to befriend and, if pos-
sible, to reform the youngster, takes him
as his mechanic, and finally secures him
a big-car-racing driving license. In return
for which the bad lad does his best to
steal his benefactor’s girl, and, in a race,
deliberately collides with him. But, ot
course, it all comes out right in the
end. The racing sequences —the film is
full of them —are well done, skilfully
interlarded with shots of real accidents.
At Sydney Lyric.


' f
m, >i
i
■ v >
am
Valerie Neary, aged I 1 months,
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Neary,
82 Croydon Avenue, Croydon.
Valerie has been fed on Arnott’s
Milk Arrowroot Biscuits from the
age of 6 months and was the
winner of a cup at Baby Show
held in the Dispensary Hall, Ashfield,
May 5, 1937.
During the past half-century over 40,000
photographs of strong, vigorous children
reared from the age of six months on
Arnott’s Famous Milk Arrowroot Biscuits have
been sent with testimonials by grateful
mothers to William Arnott, Limited.
Cbrootts
IT;
Always ask your Grocer for Amotlfs “They are Better than Ever”
“Another Dawn.”
COMMANDING OFFICER, lan Hunter
HIS WIFE Kay Francis
CAPTAIN Errol Flynn
HIS SISTER Frieda Inescourt
The headquarters of a British military
outpost, with sand and palm-trees in the
background; the C. 0., married to a
woman who frankly warned him before-
hand she could never give him her love,
that having been expended on a man
since dead; the second-in-command,
aware of a growing love for the C.O.’s
wife and finding it reciprocated, and
the second-in-command’s sister, hope-
lessly in love with the C.O. Add to this
that all four are honorable about it. The
set-up is fairly familiar, but on it Warner
Bros, have built good drama.
Several phases contribute to its suc-
cess. Chief of these is the atmosphere
that has been created. The characters,
down to the coward-hero batman, neatly
played by Herbert Mundin, not only look
like British soldiers on overseas service,
but act and talk like them. The dialogue,
too, is true to type. There are no mock-
heroics ; that horror of displaying any
emotion before each other which is in-
herent in men of British stock is recog-
nised. The acting of the four principals
is all that could be desired.
The crossplay resulting from their per-
sonal problems, however, by no means
monopolises the film. There is action—
good, red-blooded stuff, too, with a
pitched battle between a handful of
troops and a marauding band of tribes-
men as a highlight. As their numbers
steadily dwindle the “second” flashes an
SOS by field wireless to his superior
officer and friend: “Five gone. Ammu-
nition probably last till sunset. Good
light. Wish you were here.” Laconic,
with a touch of humor, it is probably
the message a man would send in such
circumstances. “Another Dawn” is at
Sydney Plaza.
“Ever Since Eve.”
HARASSED AUTHOR,
Robert Montgomery
HIS SECRETARY .... Marion Davies
HER PALS, Patsy Kelly and Al Jenkins
The typist whose beauty is such that
she causes deep unrest among the male
element in every office in which she
works, resulting in a succession of lost
jobs, is a tried and trusty screen friend.
The one in this story solved the prob-
lem by enlisting the aid of a “make-
down” expert, and so efficient was his
work that her new boss, a celebrated
author, shuddered violently whenever he
beheld her. But he had also met, failed
to recognise and fallen in love with the
same siren sans the brunette wig and
huge spectacles which she donned for
working hours, and the many compli-
cations arising out of this daffy situation
form the basis of a joyous comedy.
Robert Montgomery as the author who
desperately tries to extricate himself
from the toils of a designing female is
easy and natural. Marion Davies looks
the ugly duckling in her disguise and a
stunner when she does the grub-into-
butterfly act. Kelly and Jenkins as an
engaged couple who are delightfully
frank about each ether’s physical and
mental shortcomings add to the merri-
ment. At Sydney Plaza.
STAGE SHOWS.
Rubinstein Recitals.
Highlights of Arthur Rubinstein’s
series of pianoforte recitals in Sydney
last week were the “Appassionata”
Sonata, the Bach Toccata in E and the
Chaconne, the Chopin B Minor Sonata,
and some extraordinarily vivid perform-
ances of works by Albeniz, Ravel and
Stravinsky.
Unlike so many musical virtuosos
Rubinstein is a man of wide and varied
interests, one who thinks for himself on
every subject, and this broad cultural
basis and habit of forming instead of
adopting opinions make his interpreta-
tions as individual as they are informa-
tive. No pianist yet heard in Australia
plays the “Appassionata,” for instance,
as Rubinstein does, but none seems to
have got nearer to Beethoven’s intention.
Rubinstein’s Chopin-playing, based on the
very reasonable assumption that the com-
poser’s own style of playing was con-
ditioned by his frail physique, is heroic
rather than ladylike, classical rather than
romantic.*
Also he gets under the skin of the
moderns, and by sheer skill and driving
force can transform, on occasion, what
looks very like putty in the score, and
usually sounds like it on the piano, into
polished steel. He revels in clangorous,
bell-like tones, can make Bach passages
sound like a carillon, and—what is more
important—can make the hearer believe
that was what the Cantor had in mind.
A very remarkable executant and a
musician of strong and original mind.
Rubinstein has given Sydney a new
standard of comparison.
■l*
Independent Theatre.
The Independent Theatre at Sydney
Con. on Saturday night added to its
long list of successful presentations
when, under the capable hand of Doris
Fitton, it staged Shaw’s “Candida.” The
play, in which a minister, his wife and an
adolescent poet take the main roles, is
slight of plot, serving chiefly as a vehicle
for Shavian wit. In a small cast of six
players, each of whom gave an excellent
performance, Doris Fitton as Candida
and Ronald Folkard as the poet Eugene
Marchbanks were the most outstanding.
As the Rev. Morell, Hawdon Wilson was
slightly troubled by Shaw’s long speeches,
but gave a pleasing portrayal, and Ethel
Gabriel, Brian Wright and Eric Scott
provided capable support.
As a prelude to the play, Irene Vera
Young’s recital of modern dance was
unusual and interesting. The poise
and sweetness of Coleridge-Taylor’s
“Caprice,” the graceful charm of a Beet-
hoven scherzo and the impressive inten-
sity of “Prison,” as interpreted by Miss
Young, formed a pleasing contribution,
t ♦
Pirandello’s “Henry IV.”
Pirandello is no playwright for child-
like minds. His “Henry 1V.,” as pre-
sented by the Gregan McMahon Players
at the King’s Theatre on Saturday night,
reached such a pinnacle of intellectuality
that only the highbrows knew what it
was all about. The middlebrows struggled
valiantly to get the hang of the thing
and the lowbrows were too disheartened
even to try. Perhaps the play was beyond
the players. When poor Gregan, clutch-
ing his kingly robe of amethyst velvet,
says to a player “You don’t understand
a word of this, do you?” the audience
was in sympathy with the accused. When
Henry IV. struts the stage declaiming
about having “lost the equilibrium of his
second personality,” how does he expect
people of common clay to know what he
is talking about? There are some plays
which are better read than seen acted.
This is one of them. There are long,
tedious scenes, minus action, calling for
perfect diction and teamwork in tonal
harmony. This group of amateurs lacked
the art. The best thing about the King’s
four secret councillors was their wigs
and velvets.
CURRENT ARTBURSTS.
H. R. Gallop—Picturemaker.
Early study of art along commercial
lines has given Herbert Gallop a capa-
city for drafting a clear-cut, well-bal-
anced design, an eye for effective color
contrasts, and mastery over many neat
little tricks of technique. His show of
oils, water-colors and pastels at the
Grosvenor Galleries, Sydney, though it
covers a wide range of landscape and
still-life subjects and is by no means
stereotyped in style, gives an impression
more of a succession of striking posters
than of sincere interpretations of nature.
These pictures are just a little too pretty
in coloring, too nicely balanced in com-
position to ring dead true.
Yet they do, recognisably and effec-
tively, present the familiar aspect of
mountain, river, plain, lake and roadside.
The artist has achieved his intention in
almost everyone of these works, and they
“click” almost audibly. Gallop’s pastel
drawings (some of which appear to have
a little aid from water-color) are extra-
ordinarily pretty, combining, as good
pastel work should, the richness of oil
with the delicacy of water-color. But
in any medium Gallop can be depended
upon to take almost any subject and
make a bright, pleasing picture of it. And
in an age when art critics must gaze
upon so many sad, laborious, unsuccess-
ful efforts to express the unutterably
utter, that’s something to raise a cheer
about.
•b ,
A First Show.
Thomas Challen, whose 68 studies at
Hogan’s Gallery cover two years of solid
work and. range from portraits of Vic.
citizens to some Maoriland landscapes,
is holding his first exhibition in Mel-
bourne. He draws well, and there are
studies of distinct promise. He hasn’t
nailed his faith to any particular “school,”
and is obviously experimenting with dif-
ferent effects. For instance, the portrait
of knight Edward Cunningham is done
in traditional style, but that of Moira
Madden shows modernist tendencies.
Although he paints strongly he has still
to develop the sense for nuances. Some
of the Maoriland sketches are excellently
done, and several quick-figure drawings
reveal ability as a draughtsman.


a
7
V
n
WAKE UP ! !
,r BARTZ
Nature’s Salts of the Earth
Drugs are only a temporary
relief, but BARTZ, the
IMPROVED MINERAL
S'PRxjnO TONIC SALTS, is
Nature’s own remedy for
excessive fat, headaches,
rheumatic pains, sleepless-
ness, giddiness, high blood
pressure, constipation, liver,
kidney, bladder troubles, uric acid, indigestion, skin
complaints etc. Obtainable all Chemists and Stores,
CHEAPER and BETTER 1/- 4 2/- JARS
Corns Sentenced to Death.
Corns have worried you—now worry them:
although “worry” is hardly the word, for
A’CORN SILK does not trifle with corns, but
ruthlessly kills them. How comfortable your
feet feel after A’CORN SILK has removed
all your soft or hard corns —a 6d. packet will
do this for you without pain or inconvenience,
Corns are killed while you sleep —a matter of
a few hours. Chemists sell A’CORN'SILK at
6d. pei packet. Packed by Felton, Grimwade
and Duerdins, Ltd., Melbourne.
8 Bottles of Cough Remedy
for Cost of One.
Cough remedies, if bought ready-mixed,
cost a lot of money, but the following
recipe gives you eight bottles for the cost
of one. To sweetened water add a
two-shilling bottle of concentrated
HEENZO, thus making a supply equal
to about £l’s worth of the best remedies
money can buy for banishing coughs,
colds, croup, bronchitis, whooping cough,
and influenza. HEENZO is- delightful
to take, and wonderfully good for both
adults and children.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
The Walter Swinsons were responsible
for the smartest cocktail party of the
week. The Queen’s Club was sprightly
with white and pink peach-blossom,
pianist Arthur Rubinstein was the guest
of honor, and the women wore their best
hats at the newest angles. Mrs. Swin-
son’s frock was tunic in style, the skirt
long and narrow, the tunic coolly pat-
terned in black and grey. Her flat-
crowned, straight-brimmed hat wore a
posy of primroses in front. Ryder, who
is a clever man of law, though his profile
suggests a film career, helped mother and
father entertain.
Alexander Gordon’s lady, whose Anne
is on her way to England, was suited and
hatted in her favorite brown. With her
were son Alex, and his wife, red and
black her color scheme. High note in
furs was struck with Mrs. Robert Dix-
son’s silver fox and Mrs. Roystone
Davey’s ermine cape. A dashing brown
velvet beret was worn by Faith Mac-
arthur Onslow with her brown frock that
was run with a gold thread. Clarice
Faithfull Anderson’s was one of the few
white hats at the party. Her black frock
was greenly patterned. Through all the
spate of introductions and murmured
speeches the artist wore a bright smile,
and looked really interested in meeting
each one. Professor Sadler brought his
pretty wife, the Mark Sheldons were
there, and the General and Mrs. Ander-
son.
“The flowers appear on the earth ; the
time of the singing of birds is come, and
the vines with the tender grape give a
good smell,” sang Solomon, thinking of
the slopes of Lebanon. But if he were
in Australia these September days what
might he say of the sharp sweetness, the
resinous smell of our bushland flower
and juicy spray? If you are a city
worker and can’t get away to the good
stretches of the earth gay with flower and
bird, the next best thing is the Bushland
Exhibition in the Blaxland Galleries. A
small boy getting out of the lift the
other day near the high red waratahs
and the young gum saplings called it “the
Bushrangers’ Show.” But there is no
holdup. It’s all for nothing.
There are two faults to be found with
this display. First, the flower that to
you and me is native fuchsia is neatly
ticketed Epacris longiflora, while the deli-
cate little tea-tree staggers along under
Leptospermum myrsinoides. Eriostemons
and Callistemons turned out to be old
friends, quite simple for all their learned
Latin. An apologetic youngster on duty
murmured things would be different next
time. Then there is the aborigine gunyah
on the floor. Couldn’t that be put on a
small dais, giving- its dwellers more fresh
air? The whole room is lined with pic-
tures of wildflower and bird life, and
in a little caged-in space a philosophic
young ’roo meditates gently on the
human species. The show of the season.
Mrs. Florence Baverstock (wife of
Captain Baverstock), a writer of these
pages when social Sydney bowled along
in broughams and hansom-cabs, crossed
to the other side of things last week. She
won’t be lonely, for a little company of
others who have penned the Woman’s
Letter are there to give her welcome:
Sappho Smith, Louise Mack and Conor
Macleod. Mrs. Baverstock was one of
a Melbourne literary family, the Blairs.
Her sister was the first Mrs. Percy
Hunter. Her two daughters, Dolly and
Mrs. Lionel Wigmore, and son Bill, who
started with The Bulletin, are well
known in Sydney journalism.
For the opening of Herbert Gallop’s
show, the Grosvenor Galleries were soft
as spring with white and pink peach-
blossom. Mrs. Bertie Kelly, who spoke
the prelude, was in deep mourning owing
to the recent death of sister-in-law Lady
Kelly, widow of Admiral of the Fleet
Sir John Kelly. Her sweeping frock was
dignity in black taffeta, and in her hands
she carried her presentation flowers.
These were a Victorian posy ringed in
mignonette and violets and centred with
the creamy greens of the cobcea scandens.
With her came niece Mary, also in black.
In the morning Mrs. Kelly had visited
the show and examined every picture,
so that her speech, made entirely with-
out notes, had the crisp edge of know-
ledge. Students of all ages and sizes
from Mr. Gallop’s tech, classes gathered
at the show. Alice Bryant walked with
Mrs. Norman Macleod. The tall Mrs.
F. B. S. Falkiner, who turns her pen
every now and then to poetry, was one
of the interested.
The P. and O. cards of invitation to a
monster late-afternoon party on the
Mooltan are already out. This is one of
the company’s centenary celebrations;
and when the gaily winking cocktail is
downed what man present will know that,
drinking at the shipowners’ expense, he is
only following the privilege of all P.
and O. travellers up to the early ’sixties?
In those good old days the passenger got
his drinks free. There was always a
supply on the sideboard or swinging trays
even after the stewards retired at night.
Taking a journey in those days didn’t
mean salt junk half the way, even though
there was no refrigeration. The ship
simply put to sea with its meat on the
hoof. Poultry and a cow or two were
among the passengers.
Reading the company’s annals is proof
that twentieth-century America did not
discover the uses of publicity. In the
year 1844 Thackeray wrote, on commis-
sion, his From Cornhill to Cairo. He
was given a free passage by the P. and O.
management, which was anxious to popu-
larise its Mediterranean cruises. Yes,
they knew all about moonlight on the
lonian isles way back in the 1840’s. And
those merrymakers were one ahead of us
—the drinks were on the house. Boyd
Cable has written a book of this 100
years of steam. Out of such things as
old menus, memoranda of drink bills
now yellowed with age and glimpses into
the boyhood of the founders, he has
woven sheer fascination.
Winifred Carter, the Sydney girl who
is first harpist and only woman in the
Detroit Symphony Orchestra, is making
the return trek across the Pacific. Wini-
fred was one time solo harpist in the
Sydney Symphony Orchestra, but decided
on further study in France, since which
Detroit claimed her. Hers is no easy
job, as the orchestra gives as many as
five concerts a week during the season.
She is probably the only Australian who
has intimate acquaintance with Aimee
Macpherson, of Angelus Temple fame.
Miss Carter played the harp in the temple
for nine months at the evening sessions
while hundreds were being baptised in
flower-perfumed waters. Peter Pan
photograph.
The Josef Kretschmann Club’s guest
last Sunday night was all for harmony,
even if he wasn’t a musician. He was
Arthur Henderson, member of the House
of Commons —not the famous “Uncle
Arthur,” but his son. He is visiting Aus-
tralia for the National Conference of
the International Peace Campaign, and
his subject on Sunday night was the
contribution of Arts and Letters to World
Peace. Knight Francis Anderson, the
Con.’s Dr. Bainton and Laurence
Campbell were other speakers.
The Longfield Lloyds are on their way
to Sydney. He is Trade Commissioner
(with a sort of embassy status) in Japan.
When they arrive in Australia, son lan,
who has been secretary to his father, will
probably join up with the C.S.R. Mrs.
Lloyd finds that house rent in Tokio is
dear, but silk goods and beautiful em-
broideries very cheap. Linen, too,
although it is imported and is therefore
more expensive, is one of her household
joys.
On the north side of the Harbor Dell
Davies has what the theatrical agents
term “a public.” For six years, ever since
her schooldays, Dell has been one of the
popular stars of the Mosman Musical
Society. She has played lead or second
lead, has sung or danced with unfailing
charm and amiability, and her name on
the bill has always meant a good deal
to the box-office. So when Dell was set
for principal lady in the Davies-Bray
wedding at St. Thomas’s last Saturday
evening, she drew a great gallery apart
from the 130 invited guests. These went
on, after the ceremony, to the Yacht
Squadron at Kirribilli, where Dell’s
father and mother, the George Davies
couple of Neutral Bay, spread something
special in the way of reception. Mrs.
Davies, who is small and blonde, sparkled
in cloth of silver. The bride and her
attendants made a pretty group. Dell’s
wedding garment was on Grecian lines,
and was of flowing white chiffon over
silver. She carried white peach-blossom,
and her tulle veil was circled by the same
spring bloom. Mrs. F. J. Reynolds,
Mollie Harrison and Gay Keene added
white chiffons that blushed pinkly over
taffeta slips. Colin Bray was the up-
standing bridegroom.
If, suddenly, at some crowded evening
party you should be overcome by a
desire to complain about wireless pro-
grammes (although, of course, that could
never happen) take care your neighbor
isn’t the pretty subject of this Peter Pan
picture. She is Mrs. Keith Barry, and
her husband is Federal controller of
X.B.C. programmes. In addition to that
he is a medico and a writer of clever
newspaper articles.
Home again after a three months’ visit
to California are Dr. and Mrs. Newell,
of Double Bay. He was intent on re-
search, and the lady of the party —a keen
Shakspearean student who organised the
big Elizabethan Coronation pageant in
Sydney Uni.’s Great Hall just about the
time the bells of Westminster were chim-
ing for a crowning—is interested in
literary lions. At Berkeley there’s a Greek
theatre (built in 1903 with the theatre at
Epidaurus as a general model), with the
sky for its roof and stars —histrionic and
sublime —as part of the ensemble. The
Newells were also fascinated with an
open-air municipal theatre in California.
Its aerated back is planted with every
herb and flower—or most of them —
mentioned by the Bard, and the lady
from Sydney would have liked to bring
it home with her.
The Australian Muse will be given an
airing in St. James’s Hall to-morrow
night. Commencing at eight o’clock
Grace Stafford will present her students
in a bill made up of home-grown verse
and plays. Millicent Armstrong’s one-
acter, “At Dusk,” and Mrs. McLeod’s
“Travail” are the plays chosen. The
verse is drawn from writers of every
State.
Just-returned Ruth Bedford brings
news of the Teppemas from Buenos
Aires. Mrs. Teppema was a Delprat and
an accomplished violinist. Her husband
was for a long time Consul-General for
the Netherlands in Sydney. Ruth met
another Sydney friend. He was Charles
Kent, the good-looking Norwegian writer
who spent some weeks in Sydney when
he was travelling around the world on
a cargo steamer. In addition to his very
English name, Charles, who was almost
seven feet tall and carried weight to cor-
respond, had a very English habit of
wearing a monocle. He was Norway’s
delegate to the P.E.N. conference.
Over two years ago at a tea dance
at the Savoy in London where the
special attraction was a slim dryad of
a woman seer, Mary Whidborne wrote
on a slip of paper: “Shall I return to
Australia in 1937?” And the reply was
an emphatic “Yes.” Well, latest news
is that the well-known Mary, travelling
by a Swedish ship, is on her way.
She is the vivid person and very
good musician who introduced eurhyth-
mies to Sydney. In those days, straight
from the Dalcroze school in Switzerland,
she had her classes at Frensham. For
the last four or five years she has been
teaching at such schools as Roedean, out
of Brighton, and living at what is prac-
tically London’s seaside front, for with
the electric trains Brighton is not an
hour’s run from Victoria station. When
the Dalcroze Institute was opened in
London Dalcroze himself came over to
bless it. Later at the grand lunch at
Frascati’s this Letter saw Jacques kiss
Mary on both cheeks, calling her “my
good pupil.” The making of reed and
bamboo pipes is something that Mary
has perfected.
The Italian motor ship Viminale was
quite social over the week-end. On Fri-
day night members of the Dante Alighieri
found their way to Woolloomooloo and
boarded the ship. The special entertain-
ment that night were two Italian talkies.
On Saturday night there was a ball, pre-
ceded by a concert. The Viminale had
been lent by the Italian shipping com-
pany, and managing director Dr. Fanelli
was one of the guests. Italy’s acting
C.-G. and his wife were also present.
Mrs. Ferrari Passmore was one of the
keen workers for this function.
The Richard Martin pair—formerly of
sheep pastures in the Quirindi wool
patch—after seeing the royalties pass
along London for the great pageant at
Westminster, went on to Belgium. Writ-
ing from Brussels recently Mrs. Martin
(she used to be Dorothy Fox, of
Bathurst) says they mean to stay in that
handsome city for some time. “We love
it—it’s so pleasant to stroll into some
cafe of an evening and hear good music
for an hour —cost about sixpence.”
Years from now weary wayfarers rest-
ing in the shade of leaf and bough will
bless the memory of Mrs. F. G. Fanning.
The C.W.A. plans to plant 11 trees (one
for each group) to commemorate the
work of this forceful member of the
association. Six rooms in Keera House
are to be furnished, also, as a souvenir
of her labors for this seaside home for
the mothers and children of the outback.
Mrs. Fanning was a handsome and
stately figure, and might have inspired
Watteau when she appeared in sweeping
white evening frocks with long onyx
earrings. A country woman whose
station home was at Casino, she was an
indomitable worker for the Red Cross
during and after the war. Her organis-
ing ability helped build up the handsome
£6OOO which Casino raised.
The knightly James Murdoch couple
had a wedding in Midhope, their Wah-
roonga home, when second daughter
Ettie married her Cedric Rouse, of Ber-
rima. Not many brides can stand, as
this one did, beneath an arch of white
azaleas that have been plucked from their
own gardens. The wedding was a family
affair. The flower decorations in the
dining-room had been arranged by the
bride’s sister, Mrs. R. Grant, and a
special table had been arranged for a
group of nieces and nephews. The wed-
ding ensemble was in tones of beigey
pink. A motoring honeymoon, with
Brisbane the chief port of call, is
planned.
The journalists had their ninth yearly
dance last Saturday night. This brought
800 of the brotherhood to David
Jones’s. Before entering the ballroom
each arrival had to sign a time book, and
pass through a huge front page. Proofs
were thick as hailstones after a tropic
upheaval. It was all fun and merriment,
and one of the juiciest items was the
Murder at Midnight. This was a realistic
display, the “body” being carried off by
ambulance men, tenderly balancing a
stretcher. The Journalists’ Benevolent
Fund benefits.


THE COLLECTED MASTERPIECES OF
KIPLING... IN A SPECIAL AOSTRALIAN
EDITION...
A u
w - ' ' t’ftV"'* Vl tm* *•' " * ; >v
vw#*' ijmt %yb { vcj. w,fK v\ <«>< -** «• x r > , , A r . ,
v**V 'fit' *** **> <* ; ' * a - ' 7, ' k.j v* si
*s<i ' ' ! ( Htej > «<> ? * £< *•%<- - .«
nX>
S- -5S® yjjyf ; y«*. '•*** ***•»- -Me >*. «>, »»- ■-. ,v...
, <••'< 'WV :fU' , ■
is/V *!»*#*s** *WJ*
s
m
w *
w
Wm
w mm
wsm
1
*
:
Hi
fLuJ*!
T* HIS edition
* brings us
Kipling’s com-
plete prose
works. . . 26
volumes pro-
duced expressly
for Australia.
No genius of
modern times
has so com-
pletely covered
the life of our
day. With
Kipling you can
travel the whole
world over, visit
strange coun-
tries, speak dif-
fer e n t lan-
guages, realise the joys and sorrows, the triumphs
and heartaches of real people in every walk
of life. With a few vivid strokes of his pen
he transports you from the plain, workaday
world of the West to the dazzling, luxurious
1— Actions and Reactions.
2 Book of Words, A
3 Captains Courageous
4 Day’s Work, The
5 Debits and Credits
6 Diversity of Creatures, A
7 Jungle Book, The
8— Jungle Book, The Second
9 Just So Stories
10— Kim
11— Land and Sea Tales
12— Letters of Travel (1892-
1913)
13— Life’s Handicap
14 — Li §frt That Failed, The
15— Limits and? Renewals
16— Many Inventions
17— Naulahka, The (A Story of
West and East)
18— Plain Tales from the Hills
19— Puck of Pook’s Hill
20— Rewards and Fairies
21— Sea to Sea, From (Vol. 1)
22 Sea to Sea, From (Vol. 2)
23 —Soldiers Three, and Other
Stories
24 Stalky & Co.
25 Traffics and Discoveries
26 Wee Willie Winkie, and
Other Stories
ANGUS & ROBERTSON; L 1
d? CASTIEREAGHST, SYONEY.
PUBLISHERS A BOOKSELLERS to tftt UNIVERSITY
Orient. The lure of India —the soft sunlight
and cool shadows—the white dust of the high-
ways and whispering palm trees —the stealthy
brown men and lithe, lovely women —he pictures
for you with a genius all his own.
He has caught the spirit of the mystical East
and breathed it into his pen. There is a smile
and a sob in the tales and poems of British
Tommies whom Kipling loved like brothers.
And his love stories of the land where race
and color mix are as enthralling as any ever
written.
He is one author who did not have to wait
until after death for his genius to be recognised.
That is why he was the most widely-read,
most eagerly sought-after and most highly-paid
living writer in the world. His work has
borne the jealous scrutiny of forty changeful
years without the slightest loss of its appeal.
Whether you seek excitement and joyous
comedy . . . whimsical tales in racy vernacular
. . . delightful stories for children . . . you will
find them all in this splendid set. Below is
a complete list of the works it contains.
Uniformly bound in rich blue cloth, with elephant’s head embossed
in gold on cover, gold* title, and top. Each volume measures Bin.
x 5 2 in.
DELIVERED TO YOUR HOME FOR
A FIRST PAYMENT OF
151-
and post the form below for immediate delivery of
the full 26-volume set.
ORDER FORM
ANGUS AND ROBERTSON, LTD.,
89 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Please forward the Special Australian Edition of Kipling’s
Complete Piose Works, 26 volumes, for which I agree to pay:
1. 15/- deposit and 15 further monthly payments of 20/- (£l5/15/-).
2. 15/- deposit and 4 quarterly payments of £3/15/- .. (£l5/15/-).
3. Cash within 30 days (£l5/-/-)
(Strike out lines not required).
NAME
OCCUPATION
ADDRESS
BUSINESS ADDRESS
Delivered free in city and suburbs. Elsewhere freight is extra, but
will not exceed 5/-,
Bulletin 15/9/’37.


The Iticliardson Chain Hotel
m
m
THE
HOTEL
LONDON
39 Elizabeth St.,
(next Collins St.)
Melbourne
Hot an d Cold
Water, Telephone
and Central Heat-
ing, Reading Lamp
to Every Bedroom.
MELBOURNE'S MOST
CENTRAL HOTEL.
RATES PER DAY.
Room and Meals .... from 12/6
Room and Breakfast .. from 7/6
Public Notice.
SARAH LOUISA WILCOCKS, Deceased.
PURSUANT to an Order of the Supreme Court
of South Australia dated the 13th day of August
1937 and made in the matter of the estate
of SARAH LOUISA WILCOCKS deceased
(late of 53 Bishop’s Place Kensington in the
State of South Australia Spinster who died on
the 30th day of April 1937) No. 465 of 1937
whereby the following enquiry was directed:
Who were the next-of-kin of the said Sarah
Louisa Wilcocks at the time of her decease and
whether any of them are since deceased and it
so who are their respective legal personal rep-
resentatives NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN
that all persons claiming to be entitled under
the said enquiry and in particular Clara Mary
Cameron, Daniel Stuart Cameron and William
Joseph Cameron are on or before the 20th
day of December 1937 to send by post prepaid
to MESSRS. VAUGHAN & LITCHFIELD In-
dustrial Building King William Street Adelaide
South Australia the Solicitors for the estate ot
the said Sarah Louisa Wilcocks deceased their
full Christian and surnames addresses and de-
scriptions and full particulars of their claims
Claimants are to attend personally or by their
Solicitor before the Deputy-Master at his
Chambers Supreme Court House Victoria
Square Adelaide on the 26th day of January
1938 at 10.30 o’clock in the forenoon being the
time appointed for hearing and adjudicating
upon their claims or in default thereof they
will be peremptorily excluded from the benefit
of the said order.
DATED the Bth day of September, 1937.
(Signed) F. B. McBRYDE,
Master of the Supreme Court of South
Australia.
N.B.—Clara Mary Cameron, Daniel Stuart
Cameron and William Joseph Cameron, children
of Jane Cameron, are believed to be cousins
of the deceased and entitled to share in hei
Stuart Cameron is believed to have
left Yorkshire, England, for the State o»
Queensland, Australia, about the year 100/.
VAUGHAN & LITCHFIELD Industrial
Building, King William Street, Adelaide, Sou h
Australia, Solicitors for the estate of the said
Sarah Louisa Wilcocks deceased.
Chatter
Cosy clothes were needed for com-
fort in Saturday’s squalls, but many
youthful racegoers turned up at the
Valley with no crowns to their hats,
courting neuralgia, while others trod the
sloppy lawns in toeless shoes. This style
of footgear is gaining popularity rapidly.
An Australian girl living in New York
declares that it is almost impossible to
buy in that city of noise and skyscrapers
shoes that cover the toes. Mrs. Edmund
Kurtz went to the other extreme on
Saturday and encased her feet in fur-
trimmed black Russian boots. Mrs.
Richard Thomas, with daughters Agnes
and Marion, saw Othello, from the family
stable, pipped on the post. Mary Guy
Smith, in reseda tweed cut swingback
fashion, sported green suede shoes and a
saucy hat that set one thinking of gum-
nuts.
The new-season mark was stamped
on Mrs. Rupert Downes’s navy cape suit,
which was set off with a becoming halo
beret. Young June Robinson, who made
a surprise scoring at the Peninsula Club
golf last week, was a springlike figure in
beige. Another light-colored outfit was
aired by Mrs. J. Wilkie Young, whose
Harris tweed suit of azure blue was
livened up with a blouse in primrose color
matching her hatband. Lady Currie
snuggled into brown cloth and sump-
tuous furs. In spite of the day being
showery there was a big sprinkling of
grey costumes, Mrs. Stewart Ferguson
being among the many who sponsored
this soft color.
The Russell Clarkes staged the party
of the week when their lovely home at
South Yarra was filled to overflowing
with flowers and guests in honor of Red
Cross Gielgud and his fascinating spouse,
who once trod the boards in Hungary as
Zita Gordon. The only festive note
sported by Mrs. Gielgud was a white
camellia nestling among her fox furs.
Masses of stocks, roses and sweet-peas
perfumed the house with spring essence.
Daughter Marjorie gave mother a hand
in looking after the guests. The visit
of this Red Cross representative from
overseas was timed to enable the Gielguds
to be present at the annual meeting in
Victoria. Most organisations with
£20,000 to their credit would think they
were in clover for the rest of their lives,
but the hon. treas. of the Vic. division is
down in the mouth because the banking
account has dwindled to this amount.
Calls on the Red Cross are heavy.
What with cancellations and postpone-
ments of social events owing to the
paralysis scare, there has been very little
private entertaining lately, but the popu-
larity of Rosalind Parbury, a September
bride-to-be, has set the ball rolling again.
Nine parties are being given in her honor
this week. That does not finish the list.
These gaieties will continue until the eve
of the wedding, which is to take place on
September 22. Of course, the brides-
maids, Phyllis Timmins and Joyce Haden-
Smith, are among the hostesses. Others
who have bagged Rosalind as guest of
honor include Mrs. Bertram Haden-
Smith, Mrs. H. I. Graham, the Connolly
sisters Freda and Iris, Pat Leary and Pat
Lyon, Nan Dethridge, Nance Lillies and
Mrs. Vivian Wiltshire. A couple of
toddlers will figure in the bridal pageant
—Prudence, the wee daughter of Com-
mander and Mrs. Harvey, and the Wil-
liam Knowleses’ chick Joycelyn. This
wedding is a sequel to a romance which
blossomed when Rosalind paid a visit to
her sister, Mrs. Happel, at Madras.
Before she had returned home, she had
promised to marry lan Aitchison, who
hails from the same part of India as her
brother-in-law. lan has had ample time
to get into touch with Rosalind’s friends,
for he has been here for the last three
months.
Before the race carnival has been
ushered in with the Caulfield Guineas,
Monica Grantham, the good-looking
daughter of Mrs. Tom Grantham, of
Irving-road, Toorak, will be well on her
way to the Continent, where she will join
up with knight Colin Fraser’s daughter
Peggy. In the meantime Peggy will have
seen sister Dorothy, now in a finishing
school. Then she and Monica will
saunter through Germany and other
countries, picking up bits and pieces of
cultural value with the sightseeing.
Monica will linger longest where the
music is sweetest.
September does not mean drinking in
the beauty of the golden wattle or bask-
ing in the springtime sunshine for Mrs.
L. Monod. For her this is the busiest
month in all the year. As chief steward-
ess of women’s industries at the Royal
Show she is at everybody’s beck and call.
She is one of those lucky women en-
dowed with tact and commonsense. She
can disarm the disgruntled with a smile,
and hand out the right kind of medicine
to the troublesome. She and her hench-
women will handle between them 1380
exhibits in the hall devoted to women’s
entries. According to the list there are
more women in love with fancy-work
than with utility knitting and the fine
arts. Parcels are coming in from far
and near. A nurse from one of the
Friendly Island group, one of the Queen
of Tonga’s people, has sent along some
exquisite needlework, part of a trousseau.
This native nurse might never have
known about Melbourne’s mammoth
show if Dr. H. G. Brown, chief medical
officer at Nukualofa, had gone to the
New Hebrides instead of Tonga. Natur-
ally the doctor was interested in this city’s
Royal Show because he and Mrs. Monod
are brother and sister. Broothorn made
this portrait of Mrs. Monod.
Art exhibitions were varied last week
when the modellers came into the open
in group formation with a show at
Hogan’s Gallery. Moya Carey, the Irish
girl whose work generally has a touch
of the mystic, this time brought forth a
bronze fish. Ola Cohn exhibited a piece
of wood sculpture—the carving being
done in jarrah—which was shown at the
Paris Salon in 1928, but she has gone
modern since then, as was plainly shown
by her other exhibits, especially one
labelled “Haunted.” Reg Cordia is com-
ing on with his portraits in marble.
Michael O’Connell hung some of his
hand-blocked linens. To mark this
second exhibition of the Plastic Group
members followed up the exhibition with
an informal party at the home of Ola
Cohn, who is mother and president in
one. Ola has turned a discarded livery
stable in Gipps-street, East Melbourne,
into a cottage with a Continental air.
The staircase rises fiom a cobbled court-
yard, a style of architecture popular in
Italy. One of this artist’s household
treasures is an immense copper bowl
which serves as a woodbin. Ola’s house
is a happy rendezvous for students of
the plastic art. She intends to bequeath
this quaint cottage to the members of
this Plastic Group, which she founded.
Character, color and quantity place
pottery in the Arts and Crafts Exhibition
in the front line. When this organisa-
tion was in its swaddling clothes few
knew how to turn the potter’s wheel. A
couple of lads were turning out crude
bowls and cruder vases. Shutting his
eyes to the lack of artistry Lord Car-
michael, one of Victoria’s early Gov-
ernors, gave the boys a commission. A
son of one of these men—young Finlay
—has put art into this craft in his show
display. With a dustbin full of clay and
a wheel driven by electric power, John
Knight and Gladys Kelly evolve things of
beauty from the raw while you wait.
A worker in wood has taken one of those
extraordinary mushrooms, showing white
spots on red, that pop up in some parts
of Ireland for a garden-stool design,
These mushroom rests are only for the
featherweights. Far more comfortable is
the high-backed chair upholstered in
tapestry copied from a design in the
famous museum at Cluny. Mistrusting
the handiwork of amateurs, the guardians
of the Cluny tapestries insist upon the
faces in every copy of a design being
done by experts. After that the amateur
can do her worst.
, ,
The young Australian pictured here,
Bunty Leech, is no careerist. It she had
been she would now be dancing in the
Ballet Russe de Monte Carlo, instead ot
being tucked in the family nest at South
Yarra. Bunty came home last week
after having spent 18 months in London
polishing up her dance steps. When she
left here she was well advanced, ana
letters of introduction took her into the
inner circle. The great Fokine cast an
appraising eye on her arabesque, Ruth
French, one of the English stars in the
dancing world, guided her tootsteps in
the right direction. It was through this
good friend that the Australian girl got
into touch with Stanislaus Idzikowsky, of
the Ballet Russe. To her he extended
the privilege of practising with the Ballet
and watching rehearsals. Bunty was such
an outstanding student that she was asked
to become a member of the Ballet. But
she came home instead. Not a bare leg
is to be seen when members of the Ballet
Russe are in practice dress. They don
black tights, short black tunics, gay-
colored sashes to match their shoes, and
keep their hair tidy by binding their
heads with handkerchiefs in gipsy
fashion. Bunty’s success in London pro-
vides a bright feather for the cap of
Eunice Weston, who trained the nimble
feet in the way they should go.
All the brightness was in the front of
the house at the Pirandello show at the
King’s Theatre on Saturday night. In
spite of the dirty weather, there were
snow-white furs and gay evening wraps
making decorative splashes in stalls and
circle. The top story was almost de-
serted, the atmosphere of the play being
too rarefied for the birds who perch in
the gallery. Dr. and Mrs. Featonby had
a good possie in the stalls. Among slim
figures coated in black velvet was Mrs.
J. J. Liston, with her hair dressed coronet
fashion. Dr. Mary Ham, Enid Derham.
(who wields a literary pen), Jess Webb
(who has made history and languages a
life study) and a number of members of
the Lyceum Club (Melbourne’s intellec-
tual centre) lent attentive ears. Many
minds went woolgathering. However,
the wife of a well-known legal man de-
clared that, in spite of everything her
companions had to say against “Henry
1V.,” she was all for it. “I thoroughly
enjoyed it,” said she, but the compliment
was robbed of its value when she added
that she had been in a motor smash and
this was her first night out after being
housebound for three months.
During her visit to Melbourne Kazuko
Tsurumi, daughter of the Japanese dele-
gate to the New Education Conference,
has appeared in a variety of lovely
kimonos, but nothing surpassed in beauty
the silk robe and brocaded obi which
she donned to perform some of the classi-
cal dances of Japan at the International
Club. Her grace of movement and
miming were a sheer delight. Sometimes
she toyed with a parasol, but all eyes
were on her tiny feet. Steps were so in-
tricate that there were times when one
wondered how on earth Kazuko would
get them into normal position again.
Any other dancer would have got her
tootsies tied into a sailor’s knot.
After an absence of nine years, Viola
Morris and Victoria Anderson are seeing
the wattle in full bloom again. These
Australian singers have made good in the
musical world on the other side. Both
young women are scholarship winners.
Viola got a good start with her musical
education when she captured the scholar-
ship given by Jimmie Dyer, entitling her
to three years’ tuition at the East Mel-
bourne Conservatorium in Anne Wil-
liams’s time. Her friend Victoria walked
off with the Plunket Greene Prize in
London. A radio engagement brought
them back to Australia. They have
been singing over the air in various
States, but they are off to America at
the end of the month, and are booked
for a series of chamber music concerts
which will take them travelling from
California to New York. This tour will
bring much grist to the mill, but the
girls are yearning to be back in their
cottage at London’s Kensington, a white-
washed, two-storeyed house, built 150
years ago, and just made modern enough
for comfort. When the girls took leave
of the place, the garden was a mass of
blue and gold with irises and daffodils,
and the beans they had for their farewell
dinner were gathered from their own
vegetable patch. Norman Hillson, who
wrote I Speak of Germany, is the present
tenant of this old-fashioned house, which
carries a gaily-striped awning over its
front bow window.
The three-year-old Amateur Dramatic
Festival nearly went west this year. The
movement had several setbacks, but the
biggest blow was dealt when the Garrick
Theatre went out of business. Without
a roof to their heads the amateurs started
to lose heart, but Gertrude Johnson, with
the backing of the National Theatre, put
fresh life into them. Now everybody is
bursting with enthusiasm. Sponsored by
the National Theatre Movement the fes-
tival will be held in Nicholas Hall. Nine
groups of players have entered for the
contest, which opens on October 14.
Everything is to be new this year—even
the judges.
The average tourist visiting Singapore
and Java has eyes only for native baskets,
beads, bangles, pottery bits and conven-
tional mementoes. But Mrs. Oswald
Gibson, of Tintern-avenue, Toorak, had
her mind on other things. A keen animal-
lover, she spent more time in animal hos-
pitals than in bazaars and temples. When
she went sightseeing she kept a sharp
lookout for dogs and cats. At Kuala
Lumpur she had a peep into the animals'
quarantine quarters, and enjoyed a chat
with the veterinary surgeon while other
travellers were seeking baubles in the
market-places. The cats and dogs she
saw in the small towns gave her a heart-
ache. Most of the dogs looked as if they
had not a friend in the world, and few
cats could boast healthy coats. However,
at Singapore she was heartened by the
news that there had not been a case of
rabies for 15 years. This clean-up is
something of which to be proud, because
at one time Singapore was a badly-
infested area. Mrs. Gibson has brought
back some interesting reports about the
care of animals in the places she visited
which she will pass on to the Animal Wel-
fare League of Victoria, of whose execu-
tive she is a member.


BELVEDERE l>*
Belvedere d&j
Belvedere
Bt.LVECItKt
it BtLVCDtKt 1 BiLyti jEKt
MADE BY
MARTIN, SONS & CO., LTD.,
HUDDERSFIELD, ENGLAND,
THE FOUNDERS OF THE WORSTED INDUSTRY.
* T i
fl
%
y
THE IDEAL OF ALL WELL-DRESSED MEN.
POSITIVELY
THE LARGEST RANGE OF EXCLUSIVE DESIGNS
EVER PRESENTED FOR MEN’S
SUITINGS
6 tLvr'b£Kf>X<» B l LA/ £0 IRC'
BtLvrocfct m<j
Good Income plus Safety!
You as an investor want Safety and good Income in addition
to potential capital appreciation. Obviously you must inquire
to-day about FIRST AUSTRALIAN UNIT TRUST CERTI-
FICATES. These spread your money over 20 leading,
“listed” securities. The yield is approx. 5 % p.a. Cus-
todian Trustees for investors: Union Insurance Society of
Canton, Ltd.
Write for Booklet No. 1 to the Managers: —
AUSTRALIAN FIXED TRUSTS PTY., LTD.,
8-14 Bond Street, Sydney.
Box 4028 V.V., G.P.O.
Telephone: 85294.
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
“Gain”: The new policy of restrict-
ing inter-island trading around the
Islands to British and Australian vessels
has resulted in a fairly big shipbuilding
programme for B.Ps. The first of the
new vessels, the Muliama, 165 ft. long,
was delivered in Hong Kong on August
20. This will serve New Guinea, and
there will be one each for Fiji, the Gil-
berts, the Solomons and Papua. They
will all be the products of Chinese labor,
though it is not recorded where the iron
comes from. Australian yards could
have done with the order for that little
lot.
* * * *
“Bufo”: Queensland State Forestry
authorities are considering the introduc-
tion of the kasi-kasi tree from Papua
to northern afforestation areas, on ac-
count of its teredo-resisting qualities
when used as wharf-piling. A kasi-kasi
pile was recently taken out at Samara!
after 25 years’ service in a jetty, and was
found to be still in perfect condition.
Teredo had attacked the sapwood, but
could make no impression on the hard,
close-textured timber beneath. The
supply in Papua is closely limited, and
export is forbidden. Average height of
grown trees is from 30ft. to 60ft., with a
diameter of 30in. Rate of growth is
slow, but so is the rate of growth of
other suitable timbers for wharf work
in teredo-infested waters.
* * * *
“Eungella”: Can anybody tell me
whether the blow-up at Mt. Bassett (Q.)
a week or so ago was the biggest in the
history of Australian blasting, outside the
bullock-driving industry? Digging stone
for the lavish Mackay Harbor scheme
somebody hefted 40,000 tons into the
air in one afternoon. Guy Fawkes’s
shade must regret that it had corporeal
existence three hundred years too early.
* * * *
“Calliungal”: After half a century of
operation Mt. Morgan is still Queens-
land’s premier goldmine, supporting a
town of 3500 people and turning out
£350,000 worth of gold per annum. The
days are over when ore yielded in ounces,
but so are those when a minimum of
7dwt. was payable for treatment —the
average in the 7,000,000 tons of sul-
phides in sight is 4.26dwt. and 1.77 p.c.
copper. Oxidised ore is being treated
with as low as 1.623dwt. on a plant
operating at a cost of 6s. 3.84 d. per ton.
The profit for the year was £143,000.
* * * *
“J. Want”: How small Australia is
becoming since fast aeroplanes grew to
be the vogue was illustrated last week
when a woman resident of Hamilton
(Vic.) fell ill in Brisbane. Her doctor
was brought from Melbourne in a flight
lasting 4hr. 50min. for 1100 miles. Then
a Lockheed passenger plane was cleared
of its .seats, fitted with a sponge-rubber
bed and the patient flown home to
Hamilton in a comfortable day’s flight.
There is no reason now why northern
patients adjacent to aerodromes should
not have metropolitan medical attention
—provided they have up to £250 to pay
the flying bill.
* * * *
“Omega”: When “El V.” (B. 8/9/’37)
speaks of leprosy almost wiping out the
half-caste population of Groote Eylandt
mission he omits mention of the staff.
One of the white missionaries, after 12
years in the district, contracted the
disease and voluntarily placed himself in
quarantine at Prince Henry Hospital,
Little Bay, Sydney. After treatment for
two years he was discharged recently.
Like cancer, leprosy, taken in hand in
the early stages, can often be cured.
"Australia Jane's" Budget
To celebrate the P. and O. centenary
there was a big dinner on board the
Mooltan, and the next day 850 guests
were invited to cocktails and afternoon-
tea. The first was a male party, and
M.Ps. and big businessmen were there
in force. Captain C. B. Roche presided,
and Rodney Macdonald lent a hand
with the receiving. Mrs. Rodney Mac-
donald was official hostess for the tea-
and-cocktail party, and the co. spared
nothing in decorations or tucker to make
the show a success.
Looking fresh and uncrumpled in spite
of the fact that she had just finished a
“Here We go, Mabel—mind the splash !”
tour of 2300 miles of country in North
Queensland, Mrs. Graham Mylne, State
president of the Country Women’s Asso-
ciation, returned to Brisbane. The
annual meeting of the northern divi-
sion took her north, but she went on to
Port Douglas and the Tablelands with
a batch of northern C.W.A. officials.
Opening new rest-rooms, visiting hostels
and presiding over debutante balls were
a few of the jobs that Mrs. Mylne car-
ried out.
The- Repertory Society has produced
nothing that can outshine “What Every
Woman Knows,” its last production.
Gladys Parkinson lived rather than acted
the part of Maggie Wylie, and William
Williams (male lead) was as good in his
role. Jean Barlow as the Comtesse and
Katherine Cook also deserve bouquets,
as, indeed, does the whole cast. The
players must be congratulated, and so
must producer Barbara Sisley, whose
work always is efficient. Erich John and
his orchestra gave a programme of Scots
music that helped to provide the right
atmosphere.
Past and present members of the
Pharmacy Students’ Association held
their annual ball at the Trocadero, and
F. C. Bennett, hon. treas., and his wife
received the guests and entertained the
official party. Over 390 were present,
and the caps worn by young and old
were much jazzier than ordinarily.
Professor Georg Schneevoigt was wel-
comed at an informal reception arranged
by the A.B.C. at the Belle Vue, with
A. N. Finlay and his wife as host and
hostess. The Finnish Association was
represented by Mr. and Mrs. K. Karp-
penin, and educational and musical dons
and their wives were present in force.
Mrs. Finlay was in black, with pearl
earrings and brooch, and most women
present also favored black.
Temperance delegates to the All-Aus-
tralian Convention became quite ani-
mated when tea was handed round at
the civic reception, and comments were
made on the time when Brisbane boasted
two t.t. Mayors —one in North and one
in South Brisbane. A garden party
arranged by the Australian Temperance
Council was held in the Botanic Gardens,
which are at their loveliest now with the
trees all wearing new spring frocks of
very pale green and spring flowering
annuals blowing their heads off in every
garden bed. About 100 inter-State
visitors attended.
Mothers who are residing in Queens-
land and whose small sons were at school
in Melbourne have swooped down south
and returned with their offspring firmly
in hand. Mrs. T. Warren White col-
lected son Donald, and at present is at
Southport with him. Later they go up
to Tamborine Mt. for a farewell visit to
grandparents Mr. and Mrs. J. Warren
White, and then the family leaves for
England, as Captain Tom has been
appointed to the staff college. Soldier-
ing runs in Warren White blood. Knight
C. B. White is an uncle, and another
uncle, Colonel Dudley White, now off
the active list, lives in England.
One hundred years ago Andrew Petrie
and his family landed in Brisbane. A
grandson, W. R. Petrie, gave a sketch of
the family history at the Historical
Society to mark the anniversary. What
Queensland best likes to remember is
that Tom Petrie, first white child to be
born in Brisbane, was the friend and
protector of the natives. Initiated as a
lad into the Moreton Bay tribe, in the
old bora ring that was once known as
York’s Hollow, and is now the parade
ground at the Exhibition, Tom Petrie
knew the aboriginals as few white men
did. It was no uncommon thing for a
native to come and ask that he should
be branded with Tom Petrie’s cattle
irons, so that other white men should
know him for Tom Petrie’s boy.
Joyce Davies and Harding Anning will
be married by the time this item bursts
on the public eye. Joyce is a charming
lass with plenty of brains, a grand-niece
of J. P. Davies, one of the earliest of the
Brisbane chemists, after whom Davies
Park was named. Harding Anning is a
member of an N.Q. pioneering family,
and is related to many Queenslanders,
among them being R. M. King, for-
merly Minister for Education and
Deputy Leader of the Opposition.
The dance at the Gailes Golf House
was a lovely party —crystal bowls of
stock, trails of small Japanese lanterns
lit electrically and nice frocks. Crowds
of young people from Brisbane and
Ipswich went along to applaud Mrs.
Cribb and Miss Tatham, the trophy-
winners.


1$ IS
the Gin
GIN T|| *
**B
BTIEB
OllUOdlVl - lUI9 NOfINOI 3N111N39
SJIOPIOfI
HD y! W///- TjjJVdlj t/noll dTtJVA Hok Xp
Divorce Notice.
TO FRANCIS FITZGERALD formerly of 9
Westminster Street Victoria Park in the
State of Western Australia but now of
address unknown.
TAKE NOTICE that a Citation has been
issued by this Honorable Court citing you to
appear and answer the petition of TERESA
MARTHA FITZGERALD of 16 Moran Street
Boulder in the said State praying for dissolution
of marriage IN DEFAULT of your so appear-
ing you will not be allowed to address the Court
and the Court will proceed to hear the said
citation proved and pronounce sentence thereto.
AND TAKE FURTHER NOTICE that for
the purpose aforesaid you are within 45 days
after the date of this publication to attend in
person or by your proctor solicitor or attorney
at the Central Office of the said Court at Perth
and there to enter an appearance in a book pro-
vided for that purpose without which you will
not be allowed to address the Court either in
person or by counsel at any stage of the pro-
ceedings in the cause.
DATED at Perth this 23rd day of August One
thousand nine hundred and thirty-seven in the
first year of our reign.
G. J. BOYLSON,
Acting-Registrar.
To be advertised in two issues of The Bulle-
tin and in one issue of the “Sunday Times.”
JOSEPH, MUIR & WILLIAMS, of A.N.A.
House, St. George’s Terrace, Perth, Agents for
MUIR & STABLES, Solicitors, Boulder, Solici-
tors for the Petitioner.
Bankruptcy Notice.
COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA.
“The Bankruptcy Act 1924-1933.”
IN THE COURT OF BANKRUPTCY
DISTRICT OF WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
No. 38 of 1937.
Re STANLEY GEORGE GRIFFITH a Debtor
Ex parte ROBERT THOMAS HALLO a
Creditor.
TO STANLEY GEORGE GRIFFITH lately of
Colonial Mutual Buildings Saint George s
Terrace Perth in the State of Western Aus-
tralia.
TAKE NOTICE that a Bankruptcy Petition
has been presented against you in this Court by
ROBERT THOMAS HALLO of 41 Pier Street
Perth and the Court has ordered that service
of the petition herein be effected upon you by
(u) serving a sealed copy of the petition together
with a sealed copy of the order made herein
personally on the father of the debtor and
( b ) by publication in one issue of The Bulle-
tin newspaper published in Sydney in the
State of New South Wales of the presen-
tation of such petition and the time and
place fixed for hearing the petition.
AND FURTHER TAKE NOTICE that the said
petition will be heard at this Court on the 29th
day of September 1937 or so soon thereafter as
counsel can be heard at 10.30 o’clock in the
forenoon or so soon thereafter as the Court shall
sit on which day you are required to appear
and if you do not appear the Court may make
a Sequestration Order against you in your
absence. The petition can be inspected by you
on application at this Court.
DATED the 2nd day of September, 1937.
(1.5.) G. J. BOYLSON,
Acting-Registrar.
T. A. DRAPER, City Mutual Buildings, 62
St. George’s Terrace, Perth, Solicitor for the
abovenamed Creditor.
THE LITTLE SISTERS.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Delegates to the New Education Fel-
lowship Conference attended a Mayoral
reception the morning they arrived, and
Lieut.-Governor Murray gave them an-
other at G.H. in the afternoon. Yet
another gathering was arranged at the
University that day. The following after-
noon the NC.W. entertained the dele-
gates in John Martin’s dining-hall, when
300 women were interested in the views
expressed by Dr. Susan Isaacs, Mrs. F.
W Hart (California) and Mrs. F. C.
Happold (Eng.), whose husband is the
headmaster of Bishop Wordsworth’s
School, Salisbury. The State Govern-
ment came to light in the evening with
a reception at the South Australian Hotel,
where pink sweet-peas and roses deco-
rated. The guests were received by the
Premier and Mrs. R. L. Butler, and
Adelaide’s Lord Mayor and Mayoress
were present.
One of the happiest functions enjoyed
by the conference delegates was a garden
party given by T R. Melrose at his
home Mount Pleasant, a two hours’drive
from’the city. Turning into the grounds
the visitors were intrigued by a herd of
deer, kangaroos and wallabies and
dozens of gorgeous peacocks. The home-
stead in its beautiful old garden, with
wishing well, sundial, crazy pathways
and dovecot with tame white pigeons
circling overhead, looked like a picture,
The guests were received by Mr. Mel-
rose and Mrs. Hillam. Mr. Melrose
showed the guests over his immense
aviary, filled with every sort of bird, from
huge macaws to tiny finches. A visit
to the shearing-sheds interested the visi-
tors, an Australian touch that was ap-
preciated. On returning to the home-
stead afternoon tea was served on the
lawn in front of the house.
The following day the visitors were all
invited to Urrbrae, where they were en-
tertained by Dr. and Mrs. E. A. V.
Richardson. After inspecting the Waite
Institute, the party returned to the house,
where cocktails and afternoon tea re-
freshed them. Knight William Mitchell
was present. Mrs. Richardson had col-
lected a large bowl of native flora to
interest the guests. An item after tea
™ s o Miss . Tsurumi;s performance of a
Japanese dance in the ballroom, Japanese
b V * gramophone
rtxoru - TT , , .„ ,
Mrs. J. M. Helpman, mother of Bob
Helpman, who has made a name for
himself as a ballet dancer in London,
returned in the Nestor accompanied by
her daughter Sheila. They left last
January to visit 800, who has been five
years in England. Sheila was presented
at the Coronation Court by Lady Inskip.
Mrs. Helpman’s second son Max has
stayed behind. He is studying with Elsie
Fogerty in preparation for a film career,
Mrs. Helpman, who is noted for her
prize Pekinese has brought back a 14-
month-old Peke, Gem of Brailes, who
b as scored success overseas.
At St. Peter’s College chapel Pattie,
younger daughter of Dr. and Mrs. Bronte
Smeaton, of North Adelaide, exchanged
vows with James," eldest son of Mr. and
Mrs. F. W. Porter, of Gilberton. The
bride s white crepe romaine was cut on
princess lines merging into a train,
and was made with long sleeves
and shirred bodice The bridal veil
of tulle was held in place by a
coronet of orange-blossom. Bridesmaid
Zell Goodman was in ice-blue georgette
fitting to the figure, worn with a toque
of velvet leaves to match, and she wore
the gift of the bridegroom, a diamond
clasp in the form of a “Z.”
On the same day, in the same chapel,
Peggy, younger daughter of A. G.
Fenner, of Kensington, and the late Mrs.
Fenner, married Charles, son of Mr. and
Mrs. C. E. Stamp, of Mount Barker. The
bride faced the altar in white brocaded
moire with a slight train. The long
tulle veil was held in place by a cap of
camellias, hyacinths and lilies-of-the-
valley. Miss N. Mandeville was brides-
maid in porcelain green chiffon with a
girdle of twisted green and Parma violet
velvet, and her toque of green chiffon
was banded with violet leaves. The re-
ception was at the bride’s home. Her
married sister, Mrs. John Pitt, of W.A.,
came over for the wedding and acted as
hostess with her father.
WESTRALIA.
The C.O. and officers of the 28th Bat-
talion donned full regalia and threw
open the doors of the Karrakatta Club
hall for their annual at-home. Masses
of spring flowers in battalion colors deco-
rated the ballroom, and a proud array
of trophies adorned the stage. The presi-
dent, Captain E. D. Lyneham, with wife
at elbow fluttering misty chiffons pat-
terned in cyclamen and pale grey, did the
honors at the ballroom door. Mrs. M.
J. Anketell upheld the C.O.’s dignity in
huntsman’s green French crepe with
strappings of sequins and shoulder spray
of white hyacinths, Mrs. G. F. Wieck
trod a measure with her colonel in drap-
ings of sward-green satins, and Mrs. J. H.
F. Pain topped her cream chenille chif-
fons with silver-threaded petunia lame.
For her date with Wilfred Brophy at
the altar of St. Mary’s Cathedral, Poppy
Bowers, of Peppermint Grove, culled her
ideas for the bridal outfit from Spain.
Satin-embossed lame swayed into a long
train over which froths of tulle cascaded
from a high Spanish comb fashioned
from real orange-blossom. A tiny
cushion-bearer paced sedately in ankle-
length cream net frillings, and ’maids
Joan Glanert and Nola Lewis slipped
diaphanous cream-spotted net redingotes
over moulded silver lame. Ropes of
multicolored flowers supplied the only
color note. Bride’s mother, Mrs. Bowers,
greeted guests at Covent Garden in
moulded black lacquered satin coated
with gaily-flowered cloth of gold.
Two other brides of the week followed
the be-hatted mode. Molly Haynes left
St. Mary’s, West Perth, as Mrs. Fred
Waldeck in tailored Patou-pink crepe and
navy blue headgear, from which swung
a matching spotted veil. Erica Hall,
daughter of the E. N. Halls, of South
Perth, kept an early-morning tryst at St.
Mary’s on the hill with Stephen Joynl
in navy blue tailorings fronted with white
pique, and added a white band to her
navy halo hat.
A much-feted young matron, Mrs.
Arthur Gentry, who used to be Roma
Mansfield, of Mt. Lawley, departed for
her home in Bangkok after holidaying
here for some months. After a day’s
run, hunting friends foregathered at the
Canning Park Hotel to drink a farewell
beaker with her. Mr. and Mrs. L. Silver-
ston presided at a dinner party at the
Hotel Esplanade. Mr. and Mrs. W. J.
Winterbottom threw open hospitable
doors for sundowners, and sister Verna
finished off the round of parties with a
cocktail-shaking at the Palace.
“Preparators” and taxidermists clus-
tered round Frank Tose, who is touring
the museums of Australasia under the
auspices of the Carnegie Corporation, to
watch his demonstration of new sculp-
ture methods used in museum display.
Formerly the skin of the animal was
merely filled with straw or wadding ; now
taxidermy is a sculptor’s job and needs
close study.
Two honeymoons in the form of
round-the-world cruises came to an end
when Cedric Evans, A.D.C. to the Lieut.-
Governor, disembarked from the Dutch
ship Tajandoen with Jane, eldest of the
Shann girls ; and Mrs. John K. Ewers
assisted novelist husband through the
Customs after collecting trunks from the
Largs Bay.
Following a romance nurtured in Uni-
versity circles, wedding bells will be rung
very soon for Lorna Newman and Percy
Curtin, who have just announced their
engagement. The ’groom-to-be returned
from the Eastern States, where he has
been sec. to the Royal Commission for
Youth Employment, in time to accept
a Hackett studentship for the study of
political science at the London School
of Economics ; hence haste to the wed-
ding.
Molly Marshall, only daughter of the
C. B. Marshalls, of West Perth, has an-
nounced her intention of deserting Perth
for Eric Sutherland, of Victoria.
TASMANIA.
The New Education Fellowship Con-
ference fluttered the Speck’s somnolence
to some purpose. There was not much
large-scale private entertaining, as the
time was short and meetings many, but
there were numberless supper and
luncheon parties, and the weather was
perfect for the Pinnacle Drive. The high
spot of the week was the bestowing by
the University Council of honorary de-
grees upon Dr. Pierre Bovet (Geneva),
Dr. Paul Dengler (Vienna) and Dr. H.
Rugg (Colombia), when the Town Hall
was crowded. A big throng also attended
the civic reception of the delegates, and
crowds were turned away from lectures.
Dr. V. V. Hickman was a local re-
cipient of a degree from the University
Council when the New Education Con-
ference was on. He got his Doctorate of
Science.
The Sisters of St. Joseph, of the
Sacred Heart Convent, New Town,
marked their 50 years’ passage of time
since arrival in the Speck by a Jubilee
Ball at the Belvedere. Lieut.-Gov. knight
John Evans and daughter Lila were at it,
and the official party included the Pre-
mier and Mrs. Ogilvie, Archbishop
Simonds, the E. J. Ogilvies, Mr. and Mrs.
Cosgrove, Mr. and Mrs. C. Culley, the
Leo Doyles, and Revs. V. Green, R. A.
Kennedy and J. Hanahoe. Ten little
debs., all in white and carrying early-
Victorian posies, came out of their shells.
Col. and Mrs. St. Clair Cameron cele-
brated their golden wedding with a
party (mostly family) at Fordon, Nile.
All sorts of gold-colored flowers were
used in decoration, and the Launceston
branch of the Victoria League sent a
golden basket of fruit, daffodils and
yellow irises. The cake was cut in
traditional fashion with Col. Cameron's
sword.
The Southern Tas. Lawn Tennis Asso-
ciation organised a big party at the
Continental, with dancing in the ball-
room and bridge in the Oriental Room.
A committee of 25 members, with Mrs.
D. D. Willis as hon. sec., ran everything
smoothly.
Clemes College’s annual dance was an
occasion for rejoicing to a big crowd of
young things. It was held in the college
memorial grounds. The Head and Mrs.
Clemes received in the hall, Mrs. Clemes
wearing a deep-violet velvet frock with
long sleeves.
Major M. H. Cruickshank is retiring
from the military forces, so the District
Commandant, Col. J. M. A. Durrant, and
Mrs. Durrant sped him and Mrs. Cruick-
shank with a dinner and a picture party
on his last day of office. It was a treble-
barrelled sort of function, coinciding with
Major Cruickshank’s birthday and silver
wedding anniversary. After the pictures
the party returned to the Commandant’s
quarters, where Mrs. Cruickshank re-
ceived as the gift of the officers’ wives
a handsome crystal bowl.
To welcome his friend and partner,
Dr. Bruce Hamilton, back from his trip
to England, Dr. D. W. Counsell bade
over 100 guests to cocktails and savories
at Hadley’s. The party extended till
much later than usual, and was one of
the cheeriest given for a long time.


Patents.
IMPROVEMENTS IN SOUND REPRO-
DUCING DIAPHRAGMS AND METHOD
OF AND MEANS FOR PRODUCING
THE SAME.
THE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent No.
8562/32 is prepared to negotiate for the sale
of his rights in the above, or for the granting
of a license to make, use and vend the inven-
tion within the Commonwealth of Australia.
Particulars obtainable from Griffith, Hassel
and Griffith, Patent Attorneys, Sydney.
The New PEPSODENT
alone contains IRIUM which
thrillingly steps-up lustre on teeth
BECa
USE
Bb cau
•S',
SE
&
° F iRI
t/A 1
SE
Of
11
e nf
d 'o
c °w,
d'ns
DOUBLE THE THRILL
or DOUBLE YOUR MONEY BACK
If Pepsodent doesn’t show up any other tooth paste you ever used... bar none!
The new Pepsodent alone con-
tains IRIUM, the spectacular new
lustre discovery. It works on a
totally new principle. It FLOATS-
AWAY film on teeth with a won-
derfully swift and gentle action.
The new Pepsodent. because it con-
tains IRIUM, thrillingly steps-up
lustre on teeth, yet is doubly safe
because it contains no pumice, no
grit! Doubly delightful because it
contains no chalk, no soap!
The New PEPSODENT alone
contains IRIUM
IRIUM is the secret of its amazing
polishing power, its phenomenal
cleansing action, and the reason why
it gives teeth double lustre with
double safety.
Double Your Money Back
Try the New Pepsodent Tooth
Paste, and if, in your opinion, it
PEPSODENT
«The Special Film-Removing Tooth Paste
THE 2/- SIZE IS THE MOST ECONOMICAL
THE PEPSODENT CO. <AUST.) PTY. LTD.
(INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA)
does not give you Double the thrill,
Double the safety and Double the
delight of any tooth paste you ever
used —bar none—we will give you
Double your money back.
Just post the partially used tube to
The Pepsodent Co. (Aust.) Pty.
Ltd., Melbourne, and we will send
you double what you paid plus
postage.
High-Polish Your Teeth FREE
This coupon entitles you to a
free generous supply of the new
Super-Soft High-Polish Pepso-
dent Tooth Paste. Just mail
to the Pepsodent fn. (Aust.)
Pty. Ltd.. Dept. No. 4, . Box
488 G, Melbourne, t.l.
N ame
Address..
AU'W'W
.State.
The Long White Cloud
Manufacturers in Maoriland
The Maoriland Arbitration Court de-
cision lifting minimum-pay standards for
skilled, semi-skilled and unskilled workers
above those of 1931 was not unexpected,
as 1937 living costs are 10 p.c. to 12}
p.c. greater. The only curious feature
is the continued optimism of Savage
Government spokesmen regarding the
easy establishment of further secondary
industries likely to absorb the unem-
ployed, acknowledged to number 25,000.
To extend social services, taxation has
been increased —and it must rise again
to pay for pending health and superan-
nuation schemes. To improve the status
of the worker, wages have been lifted
and working hours reduced. These
measures hit secondary industries at both
ends.
There have already been protests that
Australian goods are underselling Maori-
land manufacturers in the M.L. market.
Yet Australian production costs are con-
siderably higher than those in other
British countries to which most Maori-
landers would like to offer trading ad-
vantages over foreign competitors. The
Customs people can raise Maoriland
prices of foreign imports—but Minister
of Finance Nash has pledged his Govern-
ment to “take from the Old Country all
the manufactures it needs in return for
Britain taking our produce.”
This seems to set a limit to the expan-
sion of Maoriland’s secondary industries,
but Mr. Nash maintains there is no “con-
flict.” Unless Mr. Savage intends further
extension of State trading activities it is
difficult to see where the new secondary
industries are expected to come from.
“D.N.”: Civic-minded Christchurch
should readily support those descendants
of the Canterbury pilgrims who have
suggested the centenary establishment of
a Wakefield memorial museum wing (B.
1/ 9 / ’37). Portion of the present museum
was built as long ago as 1869, and, when
inspected four years ago by a couple of
Carnegie Corporation men, was found to
be “archaic and overcrowded.” The C.Cs.
said the building was “pleasing to view
from the outside,” and suggested that
the unusual facade and entrance
porch should be retained as “features of
special interest and museum pieces in
architecture.” Most visitors with an eye
for the unusual have taken away pictures
of these parts of the museum, and count-
less art students have sketched them. But
this gives little real satisfaction to a
curator responsible for the proper hous-
ing of research workers as well as the
display of valuable collections; he says
he could use 40,000 square feet of floor
space instead of the 27,000 available at
present. If porch and facade features are
to be retained, some Maoriland architect
will face a real job of work when re-
building is tackled.
* # * *
“Mak”: Although book-banning is less
irksome than in Australia (B. 1/9/’37)
there will always be complaints of a
censorship that begins with junior Cus-
toms Department officials. In each of
the four main centres, about 60 imported
books p.a. are frowned on by Customs
men, and the original lists from each
centre do not always contain the same
titles. Then, after delays annoying to
booksellers and readers, about 54 of each
60 doubtful books are released for general
circulation. Initiative generally seems to
be taken on the strength of titles alone.
A cover-title containing the word
“virgin” is always suspect.
* * * $
“Korero”: Early next month Maori-
land Labor is unveiling its Wellington
memorial to the Australian Harry Hoi-
“I think We'd better do this little one first.”
land, who led the party during 14 years
of strenuous opposition but did not live
to become Prime Minister. Born near
Canberra on June 10, 1868, Holland left
Australia 25 years ago to assist Maori-
land miners in their Waihi fight for
better working conditions. Later he
edited the Maoriland “Worker,” now the
Labor “Standard,” and in 1918 won his
way into Parliament at his third attempt.
When he died in 1933 another Australian,
the present Prime Minister Savage, suc-
ceeded him. Much of the idealism behind
certain Savage Government legislation
was inspired by Harry Holland.
* * * *
“Xo”: Though it is nearly a year since
John Guthrie, author of The Little
Country and So They Began, returned
from London, his excellent and quietly-
humorous talks on a London he saw with
observant eyes during a period big with
historic events went on the air just a few
weeks ago. They were obviously re-
corded, and must have been available to
the broadcasting authorities for some
time. Why the long delay?
* * * +
“Kiwit”: South Westland is only one
Maoriland territory worthy of Govern-
ment development and better road and
harbor facilities (B. 25 /8/ ’37). North
Auckland, the other Maoriland extremity,
is overcoming its land problems, and it,
too, has deep-water sea access which re-
quires only labor and materials to be-
come a modern port. The Bay of Islands
has always offered safe anchorage, and
it was the first M.L. settlement centre ;
the old whalers and sealers made it one
of their Tasman Sea bases. Then Samuel
Marsden landed there, and it became the
first seat of government. Because of
comparatively poor soils, the Northland
was pastorally neglected until recent
years, when farmers learned how to work
that sort of country; now it is a go-
ahead dairying district. In 1936 its 70,000
people won £3,000,000 worth of primary
produce from its 3,400,000 acres —but
another 8000 people are needed before
its population density will be up to
Maoriland’s light average of 15 to the
square mile.
* * * *
“Waitot”: Ever since the Savage Gov-
ernment began its brisk legislative
career its members have seized every
opportunity to tour the different electo-
rates. Prime Minister Savage covered
both Islands before he went to London,
and since his return he has been so far
south as Dunedin; during the recess
other members of Cabinet and rank and
file addressed gatherings, sometimes hos-
tile, in nearly every country centre.
Result? Maorilanders seem more inter-
ested in their own Government and have
a better idea of the value of their
votes —and some of the virility of
earlier days has been restored to local
politics. This may not be altogether to
Labor’s advantage at election time, but
Government members, never afraid of
the sound of their own voices, were
forced into it by their lack of daily
newspaper support.
s{i V V '!'
“M.”: New kinds of erosion? South
Island sheepmen with high-country runs
thought deer were largely responsible for
shingle-slips on their hills and were quite
cheerful when the Government decided
to finance deer-killing parties; the deer
not only menaced winter feeding areas,
but killed young forest trees. But Minis-
ter of Internal Affairs Parry now blames
sheep as much as deer for up-country
erosion, and runholders aren’t so happy
about everything ; it seems the Minister
has just received an alarming departmental
report on erosion along the watersheds
of the great Canterbury rivers. Accord-
ing to this report, sheep shouldn’t be
grazed on up-river hills; like the deer,
they eat off the oldest tussocks when they
are hungry, and these tussocks are all
that have replaced the bush and scrub
burned off the hills by earlier settlers.
Once the tussocks yield to constant graz-
ing, the soil has nothing to hold it, and
at the first rain or dry spell slips into
the river beds below. Latter soon widen
until good valley bottoms are filled with
shingle.
# * * *
“D.”: Bob Semple’s campaign against
road hogs is bringing results; all the
same this Transport Minister announces
that road accidents were responsible for
92 deaths in 22 weeks. The total in
1935 was 166 ; in 1936 191. During the
five years 1932-36 traffic accidents ac-
counted for the deaths of 820 persons, 33
of whom were under five years of age,
and 45 between the ages of five and ten.
Yet, according to the M.L. Year-Book,
during the 1931-35 period there was one
conviction for “negligent driving causing
death.”


Wavelength
Frequency
Reliable
V\ a ve-
i>n
in
Range
hand.
Metres.
Kilocycles.
in Miles.
Characteristics.
f 30.000
10
6,000
No sky-wave awl
1
hence no fading'.
Static prevalent.
3,000
100
800
375
1,000
F a <1 .i n g effects
200
1,000
300
csommc’nce.
w
3
L
r ioo
2,500
0-80
c*
200 1000
Skip distance
1 1
20
14,000
0-40
gradually become^.
/:
10
30,000
000-6000
more iinporttuih
r
8
37,500
Sky-wave is Josl.
H
cc
5
60,000
6-20
Optical r a ngf
normally. Easily
reflected. L o w
<
«
si
70 ems.
450,000
powers only,
No static or
-
noises.
2
oj
30 cms.
1,000,000
Uni n and fog
Zj
g
7.5 cms.
have no effect,
-
Present useful
in. w
asm**
m
m
.....
TURN THE DIAL ON
RADIO’S GREATEST ACHIEVEMENT—
The Mid-Season Models of
THE 1937 ULTIMATE RADIO
THE GOEDEN VOICE OF THE AIR.
Write for full particulars to
George Brown & Company Pty., Ltd.,
Electrical & Industrial Engineers,
267 Clarence Street, Sydney.
’Phone: M 254 Lines.
Solo Australian Concessionaires.
"RADIO”
The world-wide technical
authority of amateur, short-
wave and experimental radio.
Subscriptions are 18/6 per year in
Australia, acceptable at “The Bulletin
Office, 252 George Street, Sydney,
“Radio” is published monthly in Los
Angeles (U.S.A.) under date as ol
the following month; 10 issues yearly,
including special annual number; tne
August and September issues (whicb
would normally appear in July anu
August) are omitted.
Copies are mailed to subscribers direct
from U.S.A.
Read “Radio” regularly and keep in
advance of tbe times.
“Radio” is the fastest selling of all
radio magazines—on the bookstall
to-day, sold out to-morrow.
Subscribe direct and be sure of
your copy!
RADIO NEWS.
DON B. KNOCK'S PAGES.
5-6 Vet Eve A.C.-D.C.
Superhet.
Following the introduction of the 302
barretter (B. l/9/’37) A.W. Valve Co.
has published details of a suggested
A.C.-D.C. superhet incorporating it.
The high power output of the 43 pen-
tode is almost identical with that of a 42
in a standard A.C. circuit. Series inverse
feedback has been included in the design
in order to reduce harmonic distortion,
and the performance is of a high class.
The Radiotron 302 barretter is capable
of regulating all line voltages between
200 and 260 volts nominally, whilst per-
mitting fluctuations above and below
these figures. The 25Z5 rectifier under
its new ratings, with 100 ohms in series
with each plate, will deliver a very high
current with a voltage of 250 applied to
the circuit. The function of the 100-ohm
resistances is to distribute current evenly
between the two sides of the rectifier, and
to limit the peak currents charging the
first filter condenser to a value within the
valve capabilities. The first filter con-
denser should not exceed 16mfd. The
heaters of the various valves are arranged
so that those more critical to hum are at
the lower end, and the barretter is at the
higher end. Heater-cathode voltages are
kept low. The 6G5 Magic Eye, shown
by the dotted line connections in the cir-
cuit diagram, may be omitted if desired.
The original receiver built from this
circuit has been on test for some weeks,
and has withstood repeated surges intro-
duced deliberately with the object of
finding weaknesses. Valves have been
withdrawn and plugged in again without
any ill effects. This superhet is rugged
enough to withstand severe conditions
imposed by badly fluctuating supply volt-
ages on either A.C. or D.C. mains, and
should do away with all those sources
of trouble evident in A.C.-D.C. receivers
in the past.
V.C.
Wave-band Characteristics.
Development of the short waves was the
result of experiments by pioneer ama-
teurs, and such work is still going on at
ultra-high frequencies. Fading was not
understood in the early days of radio,
and the reflected “sky-wave” was un-
known. It was thought that communica-
tion over long distances was only ob-
tained by increasing the strength of the
“ground-wave” to overcome earth ab-
sorption.
So valuable commercially were the
longer waves that the amateur was not
permitted to use them. He was given
frequency bands in the supposedly useless
part of the spectrum, and with very
simple apparatus was soon able to com-
municate over thousands of miles with
only a handful of aerial watts. Thus the
“short-wave bands” came into use.
As these frequencies attracted commer-
cial services, the amateur turned to still
higher frequencies. It is possible to pro-
duce electro-magnetic waves in the whole
range down to visible light, and with
modern valves increased R.F. power is
being made possible. Waves of only five
centimetres length can now be generated
and put to good use, and a spark oscil-
lator will reach even higher frequencies
and get to the wave-range of heat.
Spectrum Analysis.
Long waves extend from 30,000 to 800
metres, and are practically immune from
fading. They are, however, particularly
exposed to static disturbances, which are
generally of very long wave-length them-
selves. From 6000 to 1000 miles is the
reliable range, and the distance decreases
with the wave-length. From 800 to about
150 metres is the medium wave-band,
and here fading is more pronounced as
the frequency is increased,
Ranges vary from 1000 miles at 800
metres to 300 miles at 160 metres, but
these distances may be exceeded consider-
ably under seasonal conditions. “Skip-
distance” comes into effect in the short-
wave range between 100 and 10 metres,
WAVE-RANGE TABLE.
At 100 metres the ground-wave may exist
for about 10 miles, but communication
can be held normally up to 1200 miles.
Under favorable conditions this distance
may be greatly exceeded. It was by the
use of 100 metres that amateurs first
spanned the Atlantic in 1923.
At 40 metres, signals are heard from
0 to 35 miles and from 400 to 4000 miles,
there being this “skip-distance” between
where the ground-wave is completely ab-
sorbed and where the reflected wave re-
turns to earth.
Ultra-short Region.
The ultra-short-wave region lies below
eight metres, and here the upward rays
are not normally reflected by the upper
layers, but pass right through and are
lost. Without the presence of certain
atmospheric conditions, reception can
be had only from the ground-wave. The
radiations travel in practically straight
lines to the horizon, and largely obey
optical laws. Large buildings or other
objects cause obstruction. The limitation
of ultra-short waves is actually a valuable
feature for many applications, as stations
some distance apart but on closely-
adjacent frequencies do not normally in-
terfere with each other. Ultra-short
waves may be directed in any desired
direction, just like a light beam, and they
can also be focused to any degree of
sharpness. They are not troubled by fog,
rain or fading.
Successful communication has been es-
tablished on “micro-waves” over useful
distances, and there is no doubt that these
very short waves will play an increasingly
important part in radio communication
of the future.
D.B.K.
Amateur Chatter.
The next concerted attempt at ultra-
short-wave DX will be made during the
week-end 25-26 of this month. An
effort will be made to communicate
across the Tas-
man on five
metres. The
Australian end of
the test is organ-
is e d by the
U.H.F. section of
W.1.A., N. S.
Wales Division,
and N.Z.A.R.T.
has arrangements
in hand in M.L.
There is no
reason why other
States should not
take part, and
VK4 and VK3
particularly
should be inter-
ested.
VK2NO is ex-
perimenting with
five-metre direc-
tive transmission, using automatic key-
ing. At present transmission times are
confined to Sunday mornings and after-
noons between 10 a.m. and 11 a.m. and
4 p.m. and 5 p.m. Sydney time. The
signal is a constant carrier with keyed 500-
cycle note. During the morning direction
is N.E.-S.W. and in the afternoon N.W.-
S.E. Character of the transmission is
“VV CQ FIVE DX, DE VK2NO”
repeated. Antenna array is of bi-direc-
tional type, with two dipoles for end-
fire directivity, fed by Q bars and 600-
ohm line. In the near future alternative
systems will be used. Fre-
quency is 57,000 kc. approxi-
mately.
As an incentive to pro-
gress on ultra-shorts (not
necessarily five metres) the
old “Australian Radio
News” Cup (now The Bul-
letin Cup) has been handed
to W.1.A., N.S.W. Division,
for award to the amateur
judged to have contributed
most to the advancement of
U.H.F. work over a 12
months’ period. The cup
will be competed for annu-
ally. The competition is
open to all serious experi-
menters, and there is plenty
of scope, for much remains
to be done in advanced-
receiver development alone.
Whilst admitting that any
five-metre DX to-day is
inconsistent, it does not
follow that this will always be the case.
The greatest influence of such work will
be in the future of television. Because
modern television is as yet unknown in
Australia it does not mean that Australia
will be denied television indefinitely and
that men with ultra-short-wave experience
will not be able to overcome receiver and
aerial problems.
Still greater distances are reported
from England in television reception
from the 8.8. C. station, and two ob-
servers are obtaining excellent results at
90 and 60 miles from the transmitter.
In one case the receiver is entirely
amateur-built, and to prove his recep-
tion the experimenter shows photo-
graphs of his screen pictures.
The 20-metre band is as lively as ever
and first-rate QSOs can be had in all
directions. One or two stations have
appeared with the prefix XZ, but this is
no new country. It is merely an indi-
cation that Burma has dropped the previ-
ous VU, which applies now only to India.
Several XU (China) stations have been
noticed lately.
In the quest for sensitive and “quiet”
five-metre C.W. receivers a frequent
source of trouble is an oscillating detec-
tor, electron-coupled or otherwire, suf-
fering from detuning and loss of sensi-
tivity just where it is needed. If a sepa-
rate heterodyne oscillator is used it is
possible to obtain better detector effi-
ciency. The oscillator should work at
half the detector frequency (10 metres)
and can be coupled to the suppressor
grid of an R.F. pentode detector to avoid
interlocking. Such a receiver is under
construction for the writer’s station.
VK2NO.
Radio Comment.
“Enno": The amateur transmitter is
often blamed unjustly for interference
with broadcast listeners. While I was
working a New Yorker on 20-metre
’phone recently a neighbor came in to
complain that I was “all over his dial/’
Pulling the switches, I went around to
investigate. His receiver was a dual-
waver with selectivity to spare, but the
aerial had been connected to the gramo-
pickup terminals and the earth lead to
the aerial terminal. No wonder there
was QRM!
* * * *
“Querex”: One of the most popular
of the 8.8. C. television broadcasts was
that of the new L.N.E.R. streamlined
train Dominion of Australia. A tele-
photo camera picked up the train at a
distance of three-quarters of a mile, when
travelling at 60 miles per hour.
New Cathode Ray Tube—
Philips DG7-1.
Latest addition to the Philips cathode
ray tube range is the DG7-I—a tube only
6jin. in length, but with a screen
diameter of 2|in., thus meeting the de-
mand for a low voltage tube with a use-
ful screen diameter. Designed for double
electrostatic deflection, the DG7-1 has,
for an anode 2 potential of 500 volts, a
maximum deflection sensitivity of


Here
ONE
job
s
have
wont
you
do
to
No more recharging of a heavy accumulator
—with consequent blank periods while this
is being done—if your new set is "AIR CELL
OPERATED."
Fitted with an Eveready Air Cell, which with
normal use gives you over a year of uninter*
rupted reception—does not deteriorate when not in use but main-
tains constant voltage at the correct level for perfect reception,
your radio needs no attention at all and is no more trouble than
an all-electric set. . . .
It yo *f buy an
AIR CELL
OPERATED RADIO
%
fi#;
SEA4A
m
± EQUIPPED WITH AN
EVEREADY
AIRCELL
Air Cell Oper-
ated models are
available under the
following well-known
brands:
BRITON S.T.C.
STERLING ECLIPSE
TASMA KRIESLER
ZENITH LEKMEK
GENALEX BREVILLE
WELDON SYMFONA
STROMBERG - CARLSON
PARAMOUNT VELCO
ARISTOCRAT (E.S,M.)
WESTINGHOUSE
AIRZONE
0.3mm./V. It has a green screen fluores-
cence and a standard Philips type “P”
base, and should prove popular among
those who have awaited a compact, eco-
nomical tube with such a wide field of
application. Amateur transmitters will
find the tube particularly useful for the
visual monitoring of their transmissions.
Short-wave Tuning
Condensers.
When designing a short-wave receiver
practically the first consideration is the
choice of tuning condensers. If poor
condensers are used trouble is sure to
be encountered, especially at the higher
frequencies. Noisy bearings and slack-
ness are prolific sources of noise, but
the mechanical design of the condenser
itself requires consideration. The dia-
grams show why some types of con-
densers are by no means efficient for
tuning over short-wave ranges.
In Fig. 1 two examples of “closed cir-
cuit” condensers are shown, and it will
Fig. 1. —The frame and spindle of these condensers
form a single-turn coil. Bearing contacts change as
the spindle is turned and cause noises by the opening
and closing of the single turn.
be seen that, in effect, the metal frame
of each type constitutes a loop which is
akin to a single-turn coil. In most cir-
cuits this type of condenser causes pecu-
liar tuning conditions and instability.
Fig. 2 shows a more suitable condenser,
Fig. 2. —Here there is a direct path from
rotor to coil, thus eliminating detri-
mental effects.
in which there is no closed metallic
frame, and in which the long circuit paths
are shorted out by the direct path to
earth. Tuning condensers of the Ray-
mart and Eddystone type, now available
in Australia, are even better, since there
Fig. 3. —In this example the connection
from the tuned circuit to rotor is through
a constant impedance pigtail.
is no back bearing at all, and the single
front bearing is mounted on a ceramic
foundation.
In Fig. 3 is shown the most efficient
form of rotor pigtail connection for the
elimination of possible rotor noises. This
is of the constant impedance type, and
is connected from earth through the rotor
shaft itself. The only motion imparted
to the pigtail is a twisting one along
most of the length. The old-fashioned
spiral pigtail connection should be
avoided. A modern condenser in which
a constant impedance connection is made
to the rotor is the steatite-insulated
Formo.
D.B.K.
Technical Hints.
Two Valves in Parallel.
It is well known that two valves in
parallel give twice the volume of one
alone, but quite often a constructor
parallels up a valve with the existing
output valve without making the least
difference. This is due to the impedance
in the plate circuit being left as before,
whereas it should be halved. There is
twice the available speech current, but
the same voltage, so that the impedance
must be halved. This will allow the un-
changed voltage to drive twice the cur-
rent through the loudspeaker transformer
primary.
Reactance (Inductive).
The calculation of reactance is of the
greatest importance. When a steady volt-
age is applied to a single wire a certain
current will flow. If, however, a steady
voltage is applied to a circuit consisting
of. an inductance, the current flowing in-
duces in each adjacent turn a similar cur-
rent, but in the opposite direction. There-
fore, if an alternating current is applied
to an inductance there will be a retard-
ing force at work in each direction of
current, and this will act in the same way
as a resistance, namely, it will tend to
retard or resist the flow of current. This
retarding force is known as “reactance,”
and is measured, like resistance, in ohms.
The formula for ascer-
taining the value of the
reactance is 6.28fL, where
L is the inductance
measured to henries, and
f is the frequency of the
applied alternating cur-
rent. Suppose we have an
audio transformer with a
primary inductance of 10
henries. At 500 cycles
the reactance of the pri-
mary would be 6.28 x
500 x 10 = 31,400 ohms.
“Soft” Valves.
Trouble in a receiver
was traced to a break in
a bias resistorj and when
this was replaced the associated valve was
found to be dead soft. It would not seem
possible for the resistor to 'have impaired
the valve, bearing in mind that the plate
current could not flow with a break in
the bias resistor.
Actually the plate is tied to the cathode
by a small stray emission, and the cathode
is then at, say, 200 volts positive (the
plate voltage) compared with the heater,
which emits a stream of electrons which
bombard the cathode and break it up,
thus liberating occluded gases which
render the valve soft.
A.R.N.
"Bulletin" Test Review.
( Manufacturers’ products considered worthy of
attention are rested and given an unbiased
report in this section.')
Philips Model 6713 Battery D.W.
Radioplayer.
The 6713 is something out of the ordi-
nary run of battery sets. It is a two-
volt production, designed, if so desired,
to operate with a special vibrator unit,
which was, for purposes of The Bulle-
tin’s test, supplied, with a six-volt accumu-
lator. The vibrator is not necessary, and
the set can be connected to a two-volt
accumulator and 135 volts of B battery.
The receiver is a seven-valve dual-
wave superhet, covering 200 to 500 and
16.5 to 51 metres. The valves include
three KF3 R.F. pentodes, one KK2
octode, one KBC1 diode-triode and two
KL4 power pentodes. There are four
2.5-volt 0.3 ampere dial lamps. Only
three control knobs are fitted, the one
on the left a combined volume control
and on-off switch, and that at the right
the tone control and dial-light switch.
This switching off of dial lights is quite
important to the outback listener, for
once a station is tuned in it is only-
waste of current to keep a dial illumi-
nated. The tuning control is unique—a
combined dial knob and wave-change lever.:
The receiver was tested under condi-i
tions of vibratory supply and straight
battery supply. Using the vibrator on
short waves, the background was just as
silent as with battery supply. The vibra-
tor unit is housed in a metal box en-
tirely separate from the receiver itself.
In action, the quality of reproduction
is very striking, as one would expect from
a push-pull audio channel with two KL4’s
on the job. On the broadcast range the
full delayed automatic volume control
feature takes care of overloading from
powerful locals, even when using a very
long, high aerial in a deliberate attempt
to provide an overstrong signal, and
despite close proximity of 2BL.
Philips 6713 is a very high-grade pro-
duction from aerial terminal to speaker,
and is on the market at 39 guineas.
D.B.K.
The maximum capacity between con-
trol grid and plate of the Radiotron 6D6
has been decreased from .010 to .007
mmfd., thus allowing for more stable I.F.
amplifier operation.
The Question Box.
In B. 9/6/37 reference is made in “Radio
Comment to a battery charger worked from
-.40 volts A.C. Where can I obtain one of
the type mentioned? —589.
This type of Philips charger is no longer
made, but it is sometimes possible to get them
second-hand. Try Radio Supply Stores and
Reco Radio, Royal Arcade, and Levenson, Pitt-
street —all Sydney.
* $ Jjt
Is it possible to have special Sonotone bat-
tery No. 55 recharged? If so, where? Cost?
—586.
If it is a dry cell, and not of the accumu-
lator type, it is useless when discharged and
cannot be recharged.
sH *
Which is the more satisfactory for broad-
casting and public address, the carbon-granule
or dynamic-type microphone 3—587.
The dynamic type is more suited to studio
broadcasting, although high-grade carbon micro-
phones are used quite extensively. A carbon
microphone has more gain than the dynamic
type, and for this reason can be considered as
more suitable tor p.a. work. Choice actually
lies with the design of pre-amplifiers.
* * *
(1) Enclosed is a design of an American A.C.-
D.C. set for use on 110 volts. Power here in
Perth, W.A., is 250 volts A.C. Would this re-
ceiver be suitable ? (2) / have a pair of head-
phones marked 400 Q ohms. Are these for radio
use ? (3) Is the 12/17 valve available in Aus-
tralia ? —590.
(1) No. (2) Yes. (3) No.
* >H ijl *
Please supply a circuit diagram of a simple
deaf aid A suitable microphone is available.
—5BB.
The diagram shows the essentials of such an
arrangement, which is nothing more than a
single-stage amplifier for dry-battery operation.
The valve is a type 30, but a more suitable
one owing to space consideration is the Hivac
type XP midget triode (available in Sydney
from Eastern Trading Co. Ltd.). The trans-
former can be almost any type of audio trans-
former, but should necessarily be small in
dimensions. The Philips type transformer would
be suitable. R 2 can be a 30-ohm rheostat and
R 1 a 400-ohm variable resistor.


TILLEY LAMPS
300 CANDLE POWER
s
g j 1
¥ f
L
Obtainable
from your local
agent or
British made. Fool
proof and trouble proof.
Burn for 10 hours on
l£ pints of kerosene.
Three times the life of
ordinary mantles. All
lamps fitted with
PYREX Globes and
insect proof fittings.
Model EX4 All Purpose
Lamp, as illustrated,
may be used as a
Storm Lantern, Hang-
ing Lamp, or Table
Lamp. Height, 19in.
Frice, 47/6
Complete.
Write for Catalogue of
Table, Wall, Vase and
Other I amps.
W. KOPSEN & CO.. LTD.,
70 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Worms in Sheep.
“Tri-cal”: You’ve been farming long
enough to know that your sheep will
withstand the ill effects of worms only if
they have been well fed and have had a
good mineral lick before them always.
1 suppose to save money you left off the
lick; now you’re moaning. If you want
a good mineral mixture and one that
sheep will find palatable, use that Tri-
cal-os Bone Flour. The bigwigs think
a lot of the stuff; say it keeps the shee- 1
in tiptop condition. What more do we
want?
A note to Davis Gelatine (Aust.)
Pty., Ltd., G.P.O. Box 35835, Sydney,
will bring a folder to you. You’d better
write before you lose any more sheep.
Old Farmer.
*
mt
8
SMtoiA
SN.
VITA-LICK
Improves Condition of
Wool.
Mr. P. A. Wright, “Wallamumbi,”
Armidale, writes, 23/31’35:
“I have proved many times
over to my own satisfaction
that sheep having constant
access to Vita-Lick are less
subject to attack from both
internal and external parasites,
and, in addition, their wool
retains a lustre and softness,
even in an adverse season,
which is lacking in sheep not so
treated.”
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
The Blowfly Reviewed.
“Narooma”: In N.S.W. the majority
of graziers pin their faith on crutching
as a means of combating the blowfly,
while in Queensland jetting is more
widely practised. The adherents of each
system have, in most cases, never given
the other method a fair trial. There are
as many dips in Queensland as there are
jetting plants in N.S.W. The percentages
of both are small.
Flytraps cause heavy mortality, but
many graziers who trapped diligently for
a time are discouraged because their
neighbors won’t trouble. I have seen
more idle or discarded traps in the past
18 months than I have seen still in work-
ing order. To succeed, trapping must
be organised and compulsory. It is little
use setting up traps if carcasses are left
lying around without being poisoned or
burned.
A few graziers still contend that dip-
ping prevents fly-strike. They have prob-
ably carried it out more carefully than
those who decry it. Dipping sheep six
weeks off shears in a “near-enough” solu-
tion and expecting them to remain im-
mune to fly for 12 months is no good.
Another reason for failures is the
number and variety of dips in use. Dips
are, roughly, of two kinds —arsenical, de-
signed to poison the parasite in feeding,
and those intended to kill the parasite
on contact. Some makers try to combine
the two. It would help if all were
labelled as to content.'
Attempts to breed a fly-proof sheep
have so far proved unsuccessful, though
every experienced sheepman knows the
type of sheep usually first to be struck.
Flies are attracted by the odor of short-
woolled, wrinkly, yellow, yolky or ailing
sheep, sheep affected by mycotic derma-
titis, etc. In a shearing-shed recently,
where the hoggets were badly affected
by water-rot, practically every blowfly
in the shed was hovering over the dis-
colored fleece-bin.
Why not concentrate on finding a
repellent which could be incorporated
with a spray or.dip, and which would
not injure the wool? Jetting, dipping
and crutching may minimise attack, but
when the fly is really bad it will strike
any sheep, wet or dry—and strike it any-
where.
Sheep on Prickly-pear Lands.
“Ghanam” : The Bulletin’s ideas on
the maintenance of fodder reserves were
echoed at Winchcombe Carson’s annual
meeting by the chairman, Harold Bell.
Pasture improvement, he said, had
decidedly increased carrying capacity in
good rainfall districts. But there are
pitfalls in a dry time ; many ambitious
owners are caught with large numbers
of stock on limited areas: —•
Experience has proved that extension of
the number of sheep carried per acre
cannot be safely made unless liberal pro-
vision of fodder reserves is simultaneously
undertaken.
Harold Bell says recovery in Queens-
land, where sheep numbers have fallen
from 22,000,000 to 18,000,000 through
drought and lack of provision against it,
has been fairly rapid, and he points out
that there is plenty of room for increase
over previous maximums. The southern
Queensland pear lands which have been
cleaned up will, he reckons, carry an-
other 10,000,000 sheep with proper en-
closure and watering.
Treating Crow-pecked Eyes.
“Doitnow”: Sheep with crow-pecked
eyes are liable to rapid septicaemia from
poison on the beak.
I have been very successful with a
solution of pot. permang., the color of
clear mauve water.
Raise the eyelids, pour in the solution,
and gently massage it into the ploughed
flesh. Repeat with lower lid and all
affected places, making sure the p.p. has
reached all damaged surfaces.
In the case of ewes damaged whilst
lambing, a much weaker solution must
be used. It is well to irrigate the in-
fected parts internally also.
Keep solution away from sunlight, and
store in a dark bottle. Incidentally, it is
useful for treating ewes from which a
dead lamb has been taken.
“Heifer ain't calved yet? Somethin'
wrong?
"Yes; stay-in strike."
Sheep Botfly.
“Mulyan”: It is easy to tell when a
sheep has been attacked. At first it
rushes off from the mob, with its head
down, snorting and shaking its head and
stamping. This is followed by a dis-
charge of mucus.
The tiny grub which hatches a few
days after the egg has been deposited by
the fly works up the nostril into the
head cavities. There it' remains about
10 months. Then it returns through the
nostril, being finally expelled by the
snorting of the animal. In the open the
fly develops, and the cycle is repeated.
Bots rarely cause any serious disturb-
ance in the victims during , the time they
are carried. The violent actions of the
sheep during the first and last stages seem
to be caused by a tickling in the nostrils.
A Jubilee.
“Rufus II.”: This year marks the first
half-century of factory butter-making in
Jamberoo (Illawarra, N.S.W.), the cradle
of the modern Australian dairying indus-
try. From the old iron building put up
on the Kiama-road largely through the
efforts of D. L. Dymock, who died last
month, has developed a business which
last year made Australia the largest
butter-producing country in the Empire.
Jamberoo celebrated with a record in
a season which has been below average
in many districts. The factory treated
1,705,000 gallons of milk, of which
419,000 gallons were concentrated for the
ice-cream trade. The profit for the year
—the factory is co-operative—was
£45,000, and suppliers were paid 7d.
per gallon till May last and 9d. from
then onwards. ■
The Jamberoo factory’s start in co-
operation led'to the foundation of the big
co-operative selling companies such as
the P.C.D. and the North Coast Co-op.
in N.S.W.' The P.C.D. now handles
about £5,000,000 worth of produce a year
and has over 9000 shareholders.
The early prosperity of the factory sys-
tem at Jamberoo, too, gave the first im-
petus to the breeding of high-producing
cattle, and almost within sight of it are
grouped to-day Greys, Dudgeons,' Chit-
ticks, Markses, Wattses, Jameses and
others whose herds form perhaps the
most valuable gathering of utility dairy
cattle in the world. Cattle from the Jam-
beroo Valley regularly seep through the
whole oT the dairying districts of eastern
Australia from Atherton to the Victorian
border. • • •' ‘
Lamb and Pig Competitions.
The Australian Meat Council is run-
ning two competitions to. improve lamb
and pig export carcasses.
The lamb competition—for two entries
—will be judged monthly from September
to February. . There will be an all-Aus-
tralian grand championship prize—a £lO
trophy and £3O in cash—together with
all-Australian Southdown awards and a
still further series of prizes for other
British breeds taken together.
Entries are restricted to crossbred
lambs produced with a British breed ram
and crossbred, comeback, Corriedale,
Polwarth or merino ewes. Southdowns
have been separated from other breeds
for the intermediate competitions, since
the “Down” type is the most in demand
in the British market.
Judging will be done in London.
Points will be awarded for lean and fat
distribution, conformation, block test amd
suitability for the British market. Entry
forms are to be had from the Australian
Society of British Sheep Breeders, ;33
Macquarie-place, Sydney, which is co-
operating with the A.M.C.
The porker and baconer contest closes
on October 15, and will be judged at
Smithfield (Eng.) on Dec. 15. Entry is
with the A.M.C., 419 Collins-street, Mel-
bourne. Three carcasses —in the porker
class, 601 b. to 801 b. dressed weight with
heads ; in the baconers, 1201 b. to 1601 b.
with heads—must be submitted. They
must be by a pure-bred boar from a
litter registered with the Australian Stud
Pig Breeders’ Society.
Only carcasses passed as first-grade ex-
port standard may compete. There are
six money prizes and a trophy in each
class. All carcasses securing more than
80 p.c. of points will receive first-class
certificates, and all from 65 p.c. to 80
p.c. second-class certificates.
Peanuts for Porkers.
“Longo”: If “in U.S.A. peanuts are
largely used in hoggeries” (B. l/9/’37)
the Yankee public must have a very dif-
ferent taste in bacon from Australians.
Here in the South Burnett (Q.) we pro-
duce anything up to 4000 tons of pea-
nuts annually, and this year there is
a big carry-over of Red Spanish, neces-
sitating more storage at the Kingaroy
treating plant. Though payment to
growers —through the Peanut Pool
Board —shows no profit for this class of
nut, and though most of the growers
go in for mixed farming, including dairy-
ing and pig-raising, none attempts feed-
ing nuts to pigs.
Some tried it several years ago, with
the result that the bacon companies
ever afterwards accepted pigs from such
growers only “on consignment,” to be
paid for after dressing at the factories.
Experience suggested that curing of pea-
nut-fed hams is impossible, as the fat
will not set. Peanuts should not be fed
to baconers for at least two months
before marketing.
Balling in Horses.
“Agamemnon”: “Horsey” (B. 1/7/’37)
is wide of the mark with his treatment
for balling.
Impaction is most common during
drought periods when fodder is dry,
fibrous and close grazed. The large
colon is more often affected than the
stomach.- .
If colic is due to obstruction, opium
should never be used, since it retards
bowel movement and often transforms
a mild case into a fatal one. The pain
is best controlled by chloral hydrate or
cannabis indica and hyoscyamus. None
of these affects the bowels.
If no relief is obtained enteritis or
peritonitis must be suspected. Arecoline,
as advised by “Horsey,” is dangerous,
except under expert supervision. It may
cause rupture of the weakened bowel.
Long enemas and linseed oil are safest.
A hosepipe is the best enema tube,
worked gently forward as far as pos-
sible. A rectal examination is impera-
tive to differentiate impaction from twist,
etc. The ball may sometimes be broken
up and cleared out by gentle traction.
Balls of nux vomica, ammonium car-
bonate and gentian, repeated several


m.
INTERNATIONAL
Illustration shows the 4-ton Model D-50
with semi-trailer body. Other sizes
range from Half-Ton to powerful Six-
Wheelers.
IjUST
in i
® Triday International Harvester
offers truck users the finest value
of the year, a product not only
engineered to the moment, but
styled for > public acceptance.
For more than thirty years the
manufacturers of International
Trucks have been constantly at
work on the basic problems of
engine and chassis design, load
distribution and braking, in-
creased power, fuel economy,
truck manoeuvrability, and, driver
comfort. The resources of their
engineering staff, their labora-
tories, plant s and proving
grounds, have; been centred in the
development of a fundamentally
better product. These new trucks,
therefore, represent a distinct
advance on past International
models and are not merely grada-
tions from yearly changes in
exterior design. - International
does not make major changes
yearly, but when it does introduce
a new line of trucks, it' makes
truck history.
No matter what your hauling
requirements may be, there is a
truck in this new International
Line, built to meet your needs
exactly. Without placing you
under any obligation, we would
like to send you a catalogue of
this new International Line. Or
come in to our showrooms and
see these new Internationals for
yourself.
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER COMPANY
OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
UNCORPORATEQ IN VICTORIA#
BRISBANE SYDNEY MELBOURNE ADELAIDE PEB
ROBT. NETTLEFOLD PTY. LTD., HOBART, AGENTS FOR TASMANIA
The new
International Vtilily.
Panel units in
several sizes, Half-Ton up.
Dump bodies of
all types are available.
One of the
new Internationals with tray body.
3 to 3Vi-ton
International D-40
—one of the long range
of heavy-duty Internationals.
E
INTERNATIONAL TRUCKS
times, are effective in restoring tone to
the dilated intestinal walls.
.
Sub. Clover Strains.
“Zedo”: The influences of “strains”
in pasture plants is just as important as
in stock. Leaf and stem characters,
hardiness, response to rainfall and soil
and leaf-making capacity are all influ-
enced by heredity.
orT
characteristics. Ten years ago strains
were collected from localities in every
State except Queensland, all varying in
soil, rainfall and general conditions,
These were planted at Burnley Pasture
Plant Research station, about 40 separate
strains being isolated. Many of these
have been maintained ever since, with-
out signs of inter-pollination or hybridi-
sation. The s.c., of course, is self-pol-
linating.
The plants were found to be mainly
charactered by rainfall and the length
of the growing season in their native
districts. Light. rainfalls make ear y
strains ; heavy rainfalls late strains. Soil
factors and the ability of the earth to
hold water affect development. Soils
which dry out rapidly may offset the ten-
dency of heavy rain to produce late
strains.....
The differences between early, inter-
mediate and late strains are f airly dearly
marked. Early strains have a tendency
* extensive priory a,
mos‘ a couple of branche Leaves are
fairly spaced on long sulks These
types flower _ early and make qs ci
growth in spring than other types. They
seed heavily.
Mid-season strains usually have
runners not more than 6in. long, and
they are leafier in appearance than early
strains, and give satisfactory autumn and
early-spring growth. The great bulk, of
commercial seed is “Mt. Barker,” a
mid-season strain which hails from the
original sub.-clover country and thrives
in W.A., S.A., Victoria and Tas-
mania. Where rains fall from April to
September, it is hard to beat, though its
progress in the first year is deceptive.
It is a great seeder.
Late strains have short runners, and
they throw out an abundance of matted
branches. They make their runners
later in the spring than other kinds
and are longer in rosette. They are un-
beatable among sub. clovers as fodder
producers. About the best variety comes
from Tallarook (Vic.), and favors districts
with a 24in. or higher rainfall and a long
spring.
Sandhill Growth.
“Kalumarina”: F. N. Ratcliffe, who in-
vestigated sand erosion in the Lake Eyre
district, puts forward some interesting
theories. He says that in s.-w. Queensland
erosion is not prevalent except where
there are actual sandhills, these being
part of the Simpson desert system and
having very little plant cover even in good
seasons. Nevertheless, they provide a
good deal of feed.
On the S. Australian side the sandhills
are sterile, and Ratcliffe suggests that
this may be because of poverty of seed,
which might be made good artificially.
He sees no tendency for the Queensland
sandhills to creep over the landscape,
though the hills change their conforma-
tion. V
I was brought up in that country, and,
if the sandhills do not move, at least
their surfaces are "shifted to form new
hills. As for the variation between S.A.
and Q., the S.A. country gets nearer to
Lake Eyre, and there is more salt in it.
If Ratcliffe spent a winter in the area he
would, too, find a good deal more wind
in the further inland parts.
In the Lut (Persia) sandhills have
moved far enough in a few hundred years
to cover an area as big as Central
Queensland which once supported large
towns.
{“Man on Land’’ continued on page 44.)


JUST A LITTLE BIT MORE DISTINCTIVE
This Shoe has got something “extra” in it. Maybe it’s the English
style eyelets, or maybe it’s the smartly fashioned toe, we’re not quite
sure, but there’s something which certainly gives it an air of
distinction.
It’s made in Black or Brown Calf in full and half sizes.
Price, 29/6.
“If it’s an Abbey Shoe it’s a good Shoe.”
ABBEY SHOES
316 George Street, 224 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
Telegraphic Address: “ABBEY BOOTS, SYDNEY.”
QUICK FACTS
i Uanh **
.- the ur f. b.end ing
; a
.»g *
.beari»S * *_
sts-:Sr^-Il
eve
RURAL RANK
OF ♦ NE
S£®lU T H
• WALES
HEAD OFFICE: MARTIN PLACE. SYDNEY
Commissioners: C. R. McKerihan (President), H. Rogers, P. Kearns
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish to succeed
THINK OF
Irk
5
M
PERSONAL
ATTENTION
Australia’s Leading Financial Journal,
SEPTEMBER ISSUE NOW ON SALE.
are both generally and for
individual cos. Long-term and short-term investments
involve consideration of different factors. All these
things, together with worth-while stocks, are discussed
m the September issue of “The ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly.”
PRICE 21- PER COPY, OR £11216 PER ANNUM POSTED.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd., 252 George Street, Sydney, and all States.
JTnTfyvlletz/rL
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
tolder.
Price 3/6, post free.
Silage Advantages.
“Nabawa”: Silage is succulent and
laxative, therefore more suitable than hay
during dry periods. It is especially good
as a ration for lambing ewes or milking
cows in a dry spell when other fodder is
dry and rough.
Silage is fireproof; no insurance is
necessary. Mice and other pests cannot
damage it as they do hay. It can be
made in showery weather when hay
can’t be cured.
Very weedy crops make poor hay, but
it all makes good silage. Weed seeds in
a haystack are free to reinfest the pad-
dock. In the silage pit they are out of
action. More fodder can be stored in
the same space as silage than as hay.
Finally, silage does not lose anything like
the same proportion of nutrients as does
hay.
Nitrogen from Legumes.
“K.Mc”: C.S. and I.R. workers at
Waite Institute (S. Aus.), experimenting
with pot cultures, found that grasses do
not get nitrogen from associate legumes
during the early growing period. But
when nodule breakdown and root decom-
position began the soil undoubtedly be-
came enriched with nitrogen.
Phalaris tuberosa, sown with burr tre-
foil, continued growing for eight weeks
after the legume ripened. The P.t. in
this pot weighed 5.19 grammes as com-
pared with only 1.16 grammes in the
control sown alone.
Another lot was sown in association
with sub. clover, but the s.c. grew to
within three weeks of the Phalaris ripen-
ing. The grass gained a high nitrogen
content, but it came too late to stimulate
the growth that followed the decomposi-
tion of the burr trefoil roots.
Analysis showed that the percentage of
nitrogen in the P.t. grown with trefoil
was low. This indicates that it was used
up in growth, and suggests that grasses
grown alone would impoverish the soil
unless nitrogen was supplied.
While Wimmera rye responded well to
nitrogen fertilising, legumes showed little
improvement. On the other hand, when
treated with phosphorus, the legumes did
much the better.
“Jackaburra”: Does “W.D.Mc.” (B.
18/8/’37) realise how many different
kinds of worms infest the innards of
jumbucks when he claims “arsenic soda
and tobacco drench” as a remedy for all
worms? Different worms demand dif-
ferent treatment—carbon tetrachloride is
effective against the lesser stomach
worm ; nicotine - sulphate - bluestone
drench against the hairworm and tape-
worm. The nodule worm can’t be
reached by any drench, the only treat-
ment being an enema given in large quan-
tities. This by no means exhausts the
list. The sheepman needs to realise that
the job is tough and calls for expert
advice.
“Zedo”: lam glad to see that a parsi-
monious Government is giving the C.S.
and I.R. more money to spend next year ;
but I hope the cheque will be accom-
panied by a hint that some of its
pamphlets are capable of translation only
with the aid of three higher mathemati-
cians. One such effort is a charming
document titled “Investigations On the
Occurrence and Inheritance of Grass
Clump Character in Crosses between
Varieties of Triticum Vulgare .” I dis-
covered that it is an essay on the
genetics of wheat clumps. I can get
an occasional glimmer of meaning out
of such comparatively simple statements
as that the
F 2 genotypes and phenotypes, together
with frequencies and F 3 behavior, are set
out in table 20. The Bb and Ii factor
pairs are assumed to be linked inseparably
in the repulsion series.
But to me much of the booklet is incom-
prehensible. Yet there must be a lot
in it which would be useful to an ordi-
narily intelligent farmer if it were trans-
lated.
“Sandy”: Now is the time to put grass-
hay paddocks in order. Select a paddock
with a good sole of mixed grasses. Spread
all droppings, and make sure that there are
no sticks or wire lying about which may
blunt the knife or foul the mower. When
the grass is well grown it is a good plan
to walk over it and chip out any persis-
tent weeds. If whole milk is sold it is
advisable to shut clover paddocks, thus
lessening the risk of tainted milk in
springtime.
“Gryllus”: The recent discovery in
Brisbane of the intermediary host of the
poultry eye-worm disease should put
poultry-farmers in S.Q. and northern
N.S.W. on their guard against a serious
pest. Previously it was regarded as a
purely tropical complaint, but cases have
now been found south of Rockhampton,
and further spread seems assured. In
early stages it resembles eye roup, but
soon destroys one eye or both. The
intermediate host is a small dark-brown
cockroach, about fin. long, with a light
stripe on the shoulders. The worm’s eggs
are voided in the droppings, and develop
in the cockroach, which feeds on them.
When a fowl eats an infected cockroach,
the worm passes up the oesophagus,
reaches the tear-duct and remains there,
feeding on the tissues until it perforates
the eyeball. It is white, threadlike, about
fin. long, and moves actively.
“Cottontail”: Westralian farmers have
had good reason to thank Jupiter Pluvius
this year. Last season was disastrous
for Westralian wheat. This one threatened
to be as bad. July broke a record for
drought. On August 22 rain came in
from the coast and swept through the
country on the tail of a heavy wind. Up
around Geraldton falls were light, but
most districts had up to 4in. and few less
than 2in. within 36 hours. The rain
intensified as it moved southward, and
gradually covered all wheat areas down
to the Great Southern belt, ensuring
them a good chance of weathering the
September heat.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
(1) My mushrooms are appearing with but-
tons everywhere, but the slugs and fly and
beetle bore holes in them at night. What do
you suggest—spray or poison ? (2) Should the
manure be mixed with formalin or be sterilised
against these pests? (3) Which phosphates
should be used, mixed dry or dissolved in
manure, and which are the most effective for
forcing ? —56975.
(1) There is no ready means for the control
of slugs. As a matter of fact, they prefer the
young mushroom to the most attractive bait.
Examine the beds at night and pick off and
destroy the slugs as they appear. Try nicotine
sulphate sprays or pyrethrum dusts for the
control of flies and other pests after production
stage. (2) No formalin should be mixed with
the manure at the time of composting. If satis-
factory temperatures are developing during
the composting process these will control most
insect troubles. (3) Phosphates and other
mineral fertilisers are not recommended in
mushroom culture.
* * * *
Particulars of best months for lambing in
N.Q., and safe time to crutch or shear when
ewes are in lamb ? —56899.
The most favored months for lambing in an
average Queensland season are June to the end
of September and March to the end of May.
Crutching takes place all the year round, and is
governed by severity of blowfly strike. The
fact that ewes are in lamb makes no difference
if the operation is necessary.
* * * *
Can you give: (1) Number of butter factories
in Queensland ? (2) Q’land output of butter pet-
annum (a) for home consumption, (b) for ex-
port ? (3) Australian output p.a. (a) home con-
sumption, (b) export? (4) What are the regu-
lations for the boxing of butter ? (5) What are the
regulations for the wire-bound type box? (6)
Information regarding the Q’land Butter Box
Manufacturers’ Board ? (7) How does the board
fix quotas? (8) Any information likely to assist
me as accountant for one of the Q’land wire-
bound box manufacturing cos. ? —56790.
(1) 55. (2) (a) 515,224 boxes; (b) 966,440
boxes. (3) (a) 3,184,355 boxes (this covers
only Queensland, New South Wales, Victoria and
Tasmania); ( b ) 3,120,840 boxes. (4) and (5)
Full . information may be obtained from the
Commonwealth Dairy Branch, Sydney. (6) Not
available. (7) Quotas are fixed on production.
(8) The duties would differ very little from
those of any other business executive.
* * * *
Information wanted about the Tangier pea ?
—56629.
The pea is an annual, indigenous to N.
Africa. It is. a legume, and in general appear-
ance and growth resembles the ornamental
sweet-pea. Early-autumn planting is recom-
mended. The plant grows very slowly in
winter, but as the warm weather approaches
the growth is rapid and during September
attains a height of 3ft. to 7ft. in a tangled
mass. It is drought-resistant and suitable as
a fodder for all stock and as green manure. It
is finding favor in late years in the United
States of America, and the West Australian De-
partment of Agriculture reports favorably on it.
* * * *
(1) The value per acre of country in the
Barkly Tableland ( N.T .) ? (2) Does it carry
sheep or cattle? (3) Number to the acre? (4)
Is it timbered to any extent? (5) The address
of W. D. Fletcher, who was recently a
member of the commission to inquire into pas-
toral affairs in the Territory (B. 9/12/’36) ?
(6) Average summer temperature ?— 56599.
(1) Average annual rental is from 3s. to Bs.
per sq. mile, but little good land is available in
small blocks. (2) Cattle. (3) This would be
subject to watering and enclosure. About 12
to the sq. mile on average country. (41
Sparsely timbered —mainly not enough shade
for sheep. (5) Northern Territory Commission,
C/o Land Administration Board, Brisbane. (6)
Summer temperature has run as high as 1 lOdeg.
F. In winter there is a wide range —sometimes
32deg. at night and 90deg. at midday. No
reliable average figures,


[GARAGE MAN INSTALS
OWN POWER
with high
electricity bills on the com-
mercial rate, about which there
have been numerous complaints
recently, Mr. W. E. Marchant,
garage proprietor, of Liver pool-
road, Enfield, has installed his
oTvn electricity sysler
You can have Electricity
for less than Id, per unit!
... AND ONLY PAY
FOR WHAT YOU USE!
How? ... By installing a “Lister”
Diesel Electric Light and Power Plant.
A 7 B.H.P. “Lister” Diesel 240 Volt
A.C. Plant will give you an output of 4
units per hour for a total fuel cost of
2/8 per 8 hour day (based on the
current price of fuel oil—9d. per
gallon).
That*s a proposition worth
considering, isn’t it?
We have installed over 2000 “Lister”
Light and Power Plants in New South
Wales, and each and every owner is
enthusiastic in his praises. Country
Homes, Garages, even small towns are
powered by Lister.
Let us talk this over. Call at our Show-
rooms—the address is below—write, or
’phone, and we will gladly send a repre-
sentative. You’ll be agreeably sur-
prised to know how cheaply you can
own your own power supply.
Wk
wm
I m
“Lister” Diesel
Electric Light
and
Power Plants
DANCAR, CEDYE & MALLOCH LTD.
MALLOCH HOUSE, 10-14 YOUNG STREET, SYDNEY
Telephone:
B6o9s —Six lines
LTD.
Telegrams:
“DANGARS” Sydney.
16,697
Wsstinghotise
REFRIGERATORS
THE WORLD’S
LARGEST
SINGLE ORDER
1
This order was the largest ever recorded under one contract,
and was secured, in competition with all leading makes, on
(1) ECONOMY—lnitial price plus current cost for a
10-YEAR PERIOD.
(2) SAFETY—DuaI Automatic SAFETY Feature.
Only WESTINGHOUSE has this.
(3) RELIABILITY—Backed by the MIGHTY NAME
of WESTINGHOUSE.
(4) LASTING EFFICIENCY—In 20 years efficiency
service the Economizer Unit is ONLY SIX
YEARS OLD.
(5) SERVICE—WESTINGHOUSE Hermetically-
sealed Mechanism, DOES NOT EVEN
REQUIRE OILING.
Do not purchase your Refrigerator until you have
thoroughly investigated these IMPORTANT factors:—■
LIFE, EFFICIENCY and ECONOMY.
Small Deposits. Easy Terms. Inspect at our Showrooms.
4 YEARS’ GUARANTEE
MAIL THIS COUPON FOR FULL PARTICULARS
Messrs. E. F. WILKS & CO. PTY., LTD.,
124 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Please send me full particulars of Westinghouse Kitchen-proved
Refrigerators.
NAME
ADDRESS
E.F.WILKS
&Co.
pul™
124 CASTLEREAGH ST.,SYDNEY.
/near market)
V STREET. )
Pkonc: M6507. Branches at NEWCASTLE.PARRAMATTA. CHATSWOOD & CESSNOCK.
Sub-Distributors : A. R. TURNER & CO.,
Asbestos House, 65 York Street, Sydney.
B 5400


J
WILCOX SMITH & CO
Postage Stamp Merchants,
Liverpool Street,
Dunedin, N.Z.
16 Page Maying and
Selling List tree.
Established 49 years.
Bankers: The Union
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND nAT ONaL IANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, fcRI -B*NE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager— D. S. FORBES.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, amd 98
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering' Australasia and the World, this
’Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of ail general banking business.
A BRILLIANT NEW COURSE,
including service, for £l/11/6.
Write for details to
METROPOLITAN SCHOOL OF
JOURNALISM,
6 Dailey Street, Sydney.
Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subiect.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Young English lady, residing in London,
wishing to come to Australia permanently, would
like to get in touch with women living on large
station properties.—7065.
Young man (24), Sydney, journalist, all-
round experience leading national weekly,
special writer, used to political publicity work,
wants job on city or country newspaper. —7010.
Young man, Sydney, wants accommodation
on farm within 50 miles from Sydney for three
weeks during October. No guest-houses.—
7086.
To get in touch with breeder of collie dogs
in Moree (N.S.W.) district. —7018.
To buy second-hand copy of first edition of
Tom Collins’s Such Is Life. —7079.
To buy, second-hand, A Glastonbury
Romance, by John Cowper Powys.—7021.
To buy Phil May in Australia or any other
books devoted to Phil May’s drawings.—7003.
To buy books dealing with old-time boxing
reminiscences.—7044.
To buy typewriter in Melbourne. —7043.
Words of verse written around the play “The
Sign of the Cross” and ending as follows: —
Arid the last of noble Marcus and his early Christian
tart
Were some bloodstained human fragments in the
circus-cleaner’s cart.
—7071.
Words of verse beginning: —
You went to the mine to make your pile
To take you down in style.
What have you done with all your tin?
You’ve blew every bally cent of it in.
—7073.
Words of recitation “Brother Ben and I.”
—6987.
Words of recitation frequently delivered at
returned-soldier functions concerning a Digger
called Ginger who was buried in no-man’s-land.
—7030.
Recipe for making axle grease from mixed
fats—7013.
Address of agent supplying Brooke’s paper
patterns for boatbuilding.—6898.
Information Sought.
(1) What was (a) the highest innings total by
England during the 1928-29 tour of Australia,
(b) the century scorers in that match, and (c)
fall of wickets ? (2) Highest total against it ?
—7001.
(1) (a) At Sydney, Nov. 9-13, 1928, England
scored 734 for 7 wickets (closed), ( b ) W. R.
Hammond 225, E. Hendren 167, D. R. Jardine
140, (c) one for 148, two for 158, three for 263,
four for 596, five for 622, six for 675, 7 for
697. (2) Victoria 572 for 9 wickets (closed), at
Melbourne, March 1-5, 1929, of which Wood-
full scored 275 not out.
* * * *
(1) Results of Rugby Union Test matches be-
tween Maoriland and South Africa prior to
the series at present being played? (2) How
many matches did the Maori Rugby Union
team play in the United Kingdom tour of
1888-897—7008.
(1) In Maoriland, 1921—First Test, M.L. won
13 points to 5; second Test, S. Africa won 9
to 5; third Test, a draw (no scores). In South
Africa, 1928—First Test, S.A. won 17 to 0;
second Test, M.L. won 7 to 6; third Test, S.A.
won 11 to 6; fourth Test, M.L. won 13 to 5.
(2) Played 74, won 49, lost 20, drew 5; points
for 394, against 188.
H: * * *
(1) In what rep. matches did A. D. McLean,
of Queensland {at present with the Rugby
Leaguers going to England ), play for Australia
with Rugby Union? (2) What was his position
in the field?— 7020.
(1) Against S. Africa in 1933 at Capetown,
July 8; Durban, July 22; Johannesburg, August
12; Port Elizabeth, August 26; Bloemfontein,
September 2. Against Maoriland at Sydney,
August 11 and 25, 1934. Against Maoriland
at Wellington, September 5; Dunedin, Sep-
tember 12, 1936. Against Maoris at Palmers-
ton, September 23, 1936. (2) Wing three-
quarter.
* * * ||C
Batsmen who lopped the averages in all
matches with Australian Elevens in England
since 1878, and their figures? —7002.
Year. Batsman. I. N.O. H.S. Runs. Av.
1878—C. Bannerman 61 2 133 1278 21.66
1880 —W. Murdoch ..60 5 153* 1218 22.14
1882—W. Murdoch ..61 5 286* 1711 30.55
1884—W. Murdoch ..50 5 211 1378 30.62
1886 —G. Giffen ..65 9 119 1454 25.98
1888—P. S. McDonnell 62 .1 105 1393 22.83
1890—W. Murdoch ..64 2 158* 1459 23.53
1893—H. Graham ..55 3 219 1492 28.69
1896—Syd Gregory.. 48 2 154 1464 31.82
1899—J. Darling ..56 9 167 1941 41.29
1902—V. Trumper ..53 0 128 2570 48.49
1905—W. Armstrong 48 7 303* 2002 48.82
1909—W. Bardsley ..51 4 219 2180 46 38
1912—Bardsley ..53 6 184* 2441 51.93
1921—C. Macartney 42 2 345 2335 58.37
1926 —W. Woodfull.. 38 5 201 1912 57.93
1930—D Bradman ..38 6 334 3170 99 06
1934—D. Bradman ..29 3 304 2106 81.00
* Not out.
* * * *
If a boxer weighing list. lib. {the light-heavy-
weight limit) or 11 st. Sib. {the middleweight
limit) defeats the reigning heavyweight cham-
pion in a title bout would he win the heavy-
weight championship, or, in other words, must
a boxer be a heavyweight before he can win
the heavyweight championship? —64ls.
It is not necessary for a boxer to be a
heavyweight in order to win the heavyweight
championship of a country, and that title can be
won by members of any lighter division. This
was proved by Ambrose Palmer (who weighed
a little more than 12st.) winning the light-
heavy and heavyweight championships of Aus-
tralia, and Billy Grime (who could easily make
9st., the featherweight limit) holding the Aus-
tralian feather-, light- and welterweight titles
when he went to the U.S.A. in 1927.
* * * *
(1) Which statue is considered to represent
the perfect female figure ? (2) What are its
measurements ? —7033.
(1) Venus de Milo. (2) Neck 12|in., fore-
arm 94in., upper arm 12|in., wrist 5.9 in., bust
37in., waist 26in., hips 38in., thigh 22|in., upper
leg 22in., knee 15in., calf 13iin., ankle 7.4 in.,
height sft. 4in.
* * * *
(1) Is it correct to say that an artery always
contains fresh blood and that a vein contains
used blood ? (2) Any exceptions to this ? —6762.
(1) No. An artery always carries blood away
from the heart, while a vein delivers it to the
heart. (2) Yes. The pulmonary artery carries
used blood from the heart to the lungs and
the pulmonary vein returns the fresh, oxygenated
blood from the lungs to the heart.
* * * *
Do some plants actually digest insects ?
7068.
Yes, insectivorous plants of various kinds are
found in most parts of the world. Their
leaves or flowers are provided with a gummy
substance or tentacles, sometimes both, which
attract, the insects and hold them while the
plant digests the nourishment. Sundew, butter-
wort and the Venus flytrap are typical ex-
amples.
* * * *
Particulars of the steamship Great Eastern ?
—7075.
Built by Scot Russell at Millwall and launched
in 1858, it was then the largest vessel afloat,
measuring 691 ft. in length, 83ft. in breadth and
22,800 tonnage. Propulsion was by both screw
and paddles. For some years the ship was used
for cable laying in the Atlantic and Mediter-
ranean, and it was sold in 1888 to be broken up.
* * * *
I have noticed in the catalogues of nursery-
men a tree, Ceratonia, or “St. John’s bread,
the locust tree of scripture.” What is the scrip-
tural reference? —6781.
Matthew iii, 4.
* * * *
Names and designating numbers of the Aus-
tralian and M.L. troopships which took the
first contingent of Anzacs abroad? —7078.
Australian: Hymettus (A.l), Geelong (A. 2),
Orvieto (A. 3), Pera (A. 4), Ornrah (A. 5), Clan
MacCorquodale (A. 6), Medic (A. 7), Argyllshire
(A.B), Shropshire (A. 9), Karroo (A. 10), Ascanius
(A. 11), Saldanha (A. 12), Katuna (A. 13),
Euripides (A. 14), Star of England (A. 15), Star
of Victoria (A. 16), Port Lincoln (A. 17), Wilt-
shire (A. 18), Afric (A. 19), Hororata (A. 20),
Marere (A. 21), Rangatira (A. 22), Suffolk (A. 23),
Benalla (A. 24), Anglo-Egyptian (A. 25), Arma-
dale (A. 26), Southern (A. 27) and Miltiades
(A. 28). Maoriland: Maunganui (N.Z.3), Tahiti
(N.Z.4), Ruapehu (N.Z.5), Orari (N.Z.6),
Limerick (N.Z.7), Star of India (N.Z.B),
Hawke’s Bay (N.Z.9), Arawa (N.Z.10), Athenic
(N.Z.11), Waimana (N.Z.12).
* * * *
What is the ancestry of the reigning king of
Sweden ? —7072.
King Gustaf V. is the fifth sovereign of the
House of Ponte Corvo and great-grandson of the
French Marshal Bernadotte, Prince of Ponte
Corvo, who was elected heir-apparent of the crown
of Sweden by Parliament on August 21, 1810,
and ascended the throne on February 5, 1818,
under the name of Carl XIV. Johan. He was
succeeded at his death, March 8, 1844, by his
only son Oscar. The latter died July 8, 1859,
and was succeeded by his eldest son, Carl XV.,
at whose premature death without male chil-
ren the crown fell to his next surviving brother,
the late king, Oscar 11., father of Gustaf V.
* * * *
Brief biography of Christopher Marlowe ?
7052.
Born at Canterbury, 1563, Marlowe was edu-
cated at King’s School in that town and matri-
culated as a pensioner of Benet College, Cam-
bridge, where he took his degrees as bachelor
and master of arts. He belonged to the group
of University Wits who derived a precarious
living from literature. While still at the Uni.
he began to write for the London stage, and
wrote the first important tragedy of the Eng-
lish language. His principal works are the
plays “Tamburlaine the Great,” “Doctor Faus-
tus,” “The Jew of Malta,” “Edward the
Second” and “The Massacre at Paris,” a narra-
tive poem, “Hero and Leander,” and a few
lyrics. He was killed in a tavern brawl at
Deptford, 1593.
* * * *
(1) Will there be a special stamp issue to
commemorate the sesquicentenary of the set-
tlement of Australia at Sydney Cove? (2) If
so, when will these stamps be issued? (3)
Values? (4) Particulars of the design, if
known ? —7039.
(1) Yes. (2) October 1, 1937. (3) 2d., 3d.,
9d. It is understood the P.M.G.’s Dept, is
arranging to place on. sale special first-day
covers at the principal post offices. (4) Capt.
Phillip and his staff at the head of Sydney
Cove on the morning of Jan. 26, 1788.
* * * *
(1) Particulars of postage stamps inscribed
“British South Africa Company”? (2) Are
they of any value from a collector’s point of
view ?— -6977.
(1) Stamps were first issued in the territory
now Rhodesia in December, 1890, the early
issues being printed by Bradbury, Wilkinson
and Cos., and later issues by Perkins, Bacon and
Cos. and Waterlow and Sons. In April, 1909,
the current issue was overprinted “Rhodesia.”
Present issues bear the inscriptions “British
South Africa Company” and “Rhodesia.” (2)
This country is a popular one philatelically;
the value of any individual stamp may be any-
thing from Id. to several pounds.
* * * *
Biography of Sho-Fu Kyosai, Japanese
artist ? —6990.
Born in 1831 at Koga, Shimotsuke, Japan,
he worked for a while with Kuniyoshi, then
received his artistic training in the studio of
Kano Dohaku, whose formal traditions he soon
abandoned for the freedom of the more popu-
lar school. Duiing the political ferment and the
revolution of 1867 Kyosai attained considerable
reputation as a caricaturist, and was three
times arrested and imprisoned by the authori-
ties of the Shogunate. After the assumption of
effective power by the Mikado a congress of
painters and men of letters was held; Kyosai
was present, and expressed his opinion of the
movement in a caricature which had great
popular success but also brought him into the
hands of the police. He may be regarded as
the greatest successor of Hokusai and as the
first Japanese political caricaturist. He died
in 1889.
* * * *
How are imitation pearls made, and how can
the imitations be detected? —6993.
Glass imitations may be detected by their
inferior iridescence, by their greater hardness
and by the apparent doubling of a spot of ink
placed on the surface, caused by the reflection
from the inner surface of the glass shell. They
consist of hollow glass spheres made by blow-
ing and lined with parchment size and an under-
lining of a prenara.ion o) ash semes. - nj,/n
as “Essence d’Orient.” When the lining is
dry the globe is filled with hot wax to impart
solidity. In cheap imitations the glass baits
are not lined, but heated in hydrochloric acid
to give an iridescence to the surface. Some-
times they are merely coated with wax, which
may be scraped off with a knife.
* * * *
What constitutes the demand for trochus
shell? What is its appearance, and where is
it obtained? —7o3B.
It is a top-shaped shell, about 3in. high,
colored with broad stripes of alternate red and
white, beneath which is solid mother-of-pearl.
It was formerly abundant on the coral reefs
of northern Australia, but through vigorous
collecting has become comparatively scarce.
It is used for the manufacture of “pearl” but-
tons, principally in Japan, and in some cases the
mollusc which it houses is smoked and ex-
ported to Oriental countries.
* :& * &
Does the change of the moon affect the
rainfall or weather ? If not, what is the basis
of the popular belief that it does? —7026.
Certain local coastal winds may be attributed
to the rise and fall of tides, which are governed
by the moon, but otherwise research has shown
that the moon has no effect on the weather.
The heat coming from the moon is insignificant
and amounts to less than one-millionth part
of that received from the sun. The belief that
changes of the moon affect the weather, although
still held by many people, is no longer general.
Probably it is based on the fact that certain
periodic weather changes sometimes coincide
with the phases of the moon.
* * * *
How to catch silver perch ? —7059.
Its usual haunts are deep, snaggy pools,
and for this reason it is best to use a single
No. 2 hook and the lightest of sinkers —a split
shot or two. A gut cast should be employed
and a light floater. Fish off the bottom. Try
to determine where the snags are thickest and
buoy your bait in front of them. Worms, yab-
bies, grubs, crickets and crayfish tail make
acceptable bait, but shrimps are best. In run-
ning water silver perch may be caught by cast-
ing as for trout, and occasionally they take
a spinning artificial bait.
* * * *
What are the indigenous fresh-water fish of
M.L., their Maori names and approximate
sizes ? —6724.
Minnow (inanga), 7in.; native or mountain
trout (kokopu), 10in.; gudgeon (taiwharu or
kokopu), 6in.; Galaxius huttoni (koaro), 6in.;
Canterbury mudfish, sin.-6in.; mudfish (hauhau
or waikaka), Bin.; smelt (paraki), 6in.; gray-
ling (upokororo), 12in.; torrent-fish or shark-
bully (papanoko), 7in.; bully (toitoi), 6in.;
short-finned eel (tuna), 3ft.-4ft.; long-finned
eel (tuna), 4ft.-sft.; lamprey (koro-koro or
kuna-kuna), 2ft.
* * * *
(1) Recipe for floor and lino, polish? (2)
How can such a polish be made non-slippery?
—6821.
(1) Take some hard yellow beeswax and
scrape it finely into a tin; cover the wax with
turpentine Melt to a thick paste over a
closed fire or stand in a basin of hot water
until melted: it is dangerously inflammable
over an open fire. Apply to the floor with a
rough flannel, and polish with a w'oollen
cloth. Several applications are required on a
new floor to bring up a good gloss. (2) It is
not possible to have glossiness without slip-
periness.
H* *s*
(1) What does the long-snouted honey mouse
look like? (2) Where is he to be found? (3)
What does he eat ? —7047.
(1) The head and body are 3in. long; the
tail 4in. The short coarse fur is grey above,
striped witH black or brown, and yellowish-
white below. The head is long and narrow,
with an elongated muzzle. (2) South-western
Australia. (3) Chiefly honey and soft-bodied
insects.
Brief Answers.
Anon: The ownership of the home in which
she resides does not preclude a widow from
claiming a N.S.W. widow’s pension. If the
widow has children under 14 years of age
dependent upon her, the value of the home is
disregarded when the amount of pension pay-
able is being assessed... .D.C.F.: (1) Spray
the lawn with a mixture of 4oz. to soz. of sul-
phate of ammonia dissolved in one gallon of
water per square yard. (2) and (3) This mixture
will destroy all weeds and have the effect of
stimulating the fine-leaved grasses in the lawn.
In the autumn top-dress with loz. per square
yard of Shirley's No. 12 mixed fertiliser
A. : (1) The tourist or second-class return
fare from Sydney to Auckland or Wellington
is £lB on the Wanganella and Awatea and £2O
on the Niagara, Aorangi, Monterey and Mari-
posa. There is also a connection from Mel-
bourne to Bluff per the Maunganui, the second-
class fare being £l6 return. (2) The steamers
mentioned are the only ones travelling to M.L.
apart from the round-trip P. and O. and Orient
liners. (3) The fares quoted above cover all
meal and accommodation charges from port
to port. (4) During summer there are weekly
sailings from Sydney to both Auckland and
Wellington, and on some occasions there are
additional sailings in between. There is also a
sailing from Melbourne to Bluff once every
three weeks M.M.: Water-rats are not pro-
tected. The skins are worth up to 4s. each,
and are sold at public. auction by brokers
J.J.: The Kindergarten Training College, 44
Henrietta-street, Waverley, Sydney, or the Kin-
dergarten Union of N.S.W., 12 Spring-street,
Sydney, would be able to give you the infor-
mation required. Kindergarten teachers of the
N.S.W. Education Department must undergo
a course of training at the Teachers’ College,
but graduates from the Kindergarten Training
College are accepted into the service after a
certain amount of training R.F.8.: (1)
There is no such thing as a provisional patent.
It is a common fallacy that, when an applica-
tion for a patent is accompanied by a pro-
visional specification, a provisional patent is
granted. This is not so, but provisional pro-
tection of the invention is obtained for a period
of nine months. (2) In all circumstances con-
sult a patent attorney ; see advertisers at end
of “Wild Cat” column W.J.M.: Write Sec-
retary, Sydney University Extension Board,
Newtown, Sydney... .W.W.: (1) No. (2)
Chamber of Manufactures, 64 Eagle-street,
Brisbane, will furnish details A.F.: 1.C.5.,
140 Elizabeth-street, Sydney; Stott’s Corres-
pondence College, 100 Russell-street, Mel-
bourne ; Metropolitan School of Journalism, 6
Dalley-street, Sydney... .C.H.H.: You are not
personally responsible if you were not a party
to the agreement... .L.A.D.: The line from
“As Ye Sow” should read: “Out 9f life’s dim,
dark corridor into the brightly-lit room of
shining death.” It is not a quotation, but
part of Edmund Barclay’s original script
W. 8.: Vance Palmer’s Legend for Sanderson,
published in book form by Angus and Robert-
son, price 65., is obtainable from leading book-
sellers J.D.: Make application to the Sec-
retary, Air Board, Victoria Barracks, Mel-
bourne A.8.C.: (1) Australian Journalists’
Association, 5 Hamilton-street, Sydney. (2) £2
per annum, with 10s. entrance fee. (3) Awards
apply only to members; a freelance would be
paid 3d. per line for special matter and 2d.
for other copy published... .T.E.S.: (1) The
variety is Funk’s Yellow Dent. (2) The follow-
ing crops are recommended for green feed:
Maize, plant September to December; lucerne,
sow April; oats, sow March-April; Sudan
grass and millet as catch crop, sow November-
January J.H.: In N.S.W. rabbit farming is
permitted only in the counties of Cumberland
and Camden. To keep rabbits a license is
necessary, and this is issued to the farmer pro-
vided he complies with certain regulations.
Breeds of rabbits procurable from breeders in
the prescribed counties are Angoras, chin-
chillas, Polish white and sables G.G.: E.
L. Grant Watson was born 1885 ; present
address, Dunfold, Bell Hill, Petersfield, Hants,
England. Partners, Nun and the Bandit, Com-
mon Earth (essays), and Moonlight in Ur,
obtainable from London through Angus and
Robertson, Sydney, all 7s. 6d J.M.: Seems
to have been coined by Keats... .R.J.F-:
Chances are 2 to 1 that A and B are right....
D.N.: Consult a patent attorney H.S.: (1)
On information supplied, yes. (2) About £24.
(3) Cullen, Commercial Bank Chambers,
Queen-street, Brisbane. (4) Yes, if it is shown
that for any reason the patentee was not entitled
to the patent... .R.J.F.: Means “He tem-
pers bitter things with a laugh”.. . .0.P.C.: In-
sanity is not a ground for divorce in N.S.W
B. : In the circumstances stated you should
both sue separately... .M.L.8.: Charles 11. half-
crown (1667) is worth 12s. 6d L.J.: Scrib-
bling and Carding, out of print; The Finishing
of Wool Goods, by John and J. Collin Scho-
field, from Angus and Robertson, £2 12s. 6d
8.H.J.: No information available, but a very
high voltage would be necessary... .H. 8.: An
abbreviation of Bolshevik 8.P.W.: Rock-,
water- and preserving-melon seeds are obtainable
from Yates, 184 Sussex-street, Sydney L.K.:
Set of three crown-and-anchor dice 4s. 6d., un-
lined leather dice cup Is., from Mick Simmons,
Haymarket, Sydney C.D.: Cannot say
whether this treatment influenced the sex of the
offspring; a study of mass statistics indicates that
in most animals (including man) the two sexes
are produced in approximately equal propor-
tions. .. .F.L.M.: Spots may be caused by diges-
tive disorder, or may be due to errors of refrac-
tion and other ocular disorders. Re-examination
is advisable... .W.O’S.: (1) The doctor has not
yet given details of his methods or of his re-
sults. (2) and (3) Rejuvenation is attempted
by grafting portions of the reproductive glands.
Operations have resulted in rejuvenation in lower
animals, and in certain cases have been success-
ful in human beings. Glandular extracts are
not of proven value, and artificial rejuvenations
are best avoided... .M.L.L.: No records....
Cap: Stamps show where authors’ sympathies
lie....(Many others mailed.)


ESTABLISHED 1834
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED
WITH WHICH IS AMALGAMATED
THE BANK OF VICTORIA LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP .. .. .. ..£4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4,300,000 0 0
(Used wholly in the business.)
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
Directors:
James Ashton (Chairman); Edward R. Knox; Owen E. Friend;
Sir Wm. Vicars, C.8.E.; Orwell Phillips.
General Manager: C. Darvall.
HEAD OFFICE: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout New South Wales,
Victoria, Queensland, South Australia, and Canberra, F.C.T.
Agents throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
w-m-
DIESEL
TRAINING
STUDY AT HOME FOR A COMING PROFESSION
Employers and employees in all departments of industry recognise
that the Diesel is the coming motive power, and the Diesel
Engineering College has been established to supply the demand
for technical knowledge of this interesting subject. On sea,
land, road, in the air, or in factories—wherever motive energy
is used—the conversion to this cheaper and more efficient form
of power will be the work of the future. v
Only those with a sound technical knowledge of the handling of
the Diesel plant will be able to convert that knowledge to
their advantage.
The training this College gives is easy to understand, and the
knowledge can be acquired by everyone, whether they are in
well-populated centres or in places right away from their
fellow-men.
Write for Free Booklet, showing fullest information
and moderate fees payable, to the
DIESEL ENGINEERING
COLLEGE,
DEPT. 14, KEMBLA BUILDING,
MARGARET STREET, SYDNEY.
J
he,
“3S&-
)
e
Men witk tke weigkt of kusiness cares still
clinging to tk em. Women, vivacious,
skilfully ckanging over from tke tempo of
day to tke quicker tempo of evening. As
tke cocktails loosen mental stiffness, tke
room fill s witk talk, jokes, smiles,
laugkter . . . tkanks to a good kostess, good
company, good cocktails, good "Vickers,
VICKERS
Y GIN
A~S BEE N FAMOUS T SINCE 1750
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should
be addressed to the Editor, not to members of the staff personally,
C. 8.: You quote Webster as your authority
for the definition of “meticulous” as “timid” or
“frightened,” but you omit to say that Webster
characterises this meaning as obsolete... .W.K.:
Worthless....J.V.M.: No hope. Where did
your friend see a mulga-tree with wildflowers
waving at its foot and bellbirds singing in its
branches? K.D.: Don’t know which is
worse, the free verse or the fettered... .J.K.:
It ripples along without a line worth reading
twice... .T.J.: Three pages of copy hard to
decipher and harder to understand... .A.R.T.:
No niche for “Dusty Dick” W.C.: Greek
to U5....H.C.8.: It misses... .R.M.: A
pleasant enough conceit, but it hardly makes
a topical rhyme... .S.M.A.: Three stanzas in
that style might win their way in....D.8.: It’s
not worked out artistically enough T.P.:
There’s nothing you could call touching in it.
Z.V.W.: It doesn't rise out of labored
mediocrity R.S.: Technically it’s all right,
but it leaves a very tame picture on the mind.
G.L.D.: If you’d put that into verse in-
stead of jerky prose it would have had a better
chance... .C.R.A.: Quite good magazine verse,
but hardly what we want H.D.: Full marks
for handwriting, nothing more... .R.S.G.: Too
long-drawn-out for our taste A.J.W.: Slung
together too loosely J.R.: No silver in (or
for) “Speech” A.D.: It misses M.T.: A
disorderly tangle of words and images....
8.L.-S.: Sending the curate back W.M.H.:
Tighten it up and we’ll look at it again....
D. : Too much of the long arm for us, but
you may place it elsewhere... .M.M.: The
chuckles are too few....A.8.: Neatly done,
but it’s not new M.MacD.: Light romance
more suitable for a flapper’s magazine
J.G.A.: You’ve an idea there; but it’s not for
u5....W.D.F.: Too rich... .F.M.: Not inter-
ested in that disappearance... .C.M.J.: It tastes
like a slightly musty meringue... .H.E.8.: Your
Pegasus is about as mettlesome as a clothes-
horse. .. .J.F.: “Fancy” was unfancied....
E. : The name hasn’t the faintest chance of
appearing here if “Film Fans” is a fair sample
of your poetic ability J.McG.: It might be
a hieroglyph for all it conveys to us.... The
Musterer: Hazy Wandipa: For an initial
effort it’s promising enough. The theme and
the refrain would both pass, but you heed
more _ rhymes and fewer
r.B.D A.: “Bed, Bed, Wondertul
yawning drowsily E.F.; Nothing m «••••
W.G.: A bit late for Coronation verse, isn t
it? And the love lilts are anaemic.... •
You are excused 0.K.: Where s Jim.
On his way home 0.8. W.: Amateurish....
M.E.M.: 4000 words are 3900 too many for
that old-timer G.R.: Not for us.^b.H.K.:
Only aroused our curiosity about the r of your
typewriter G.N.: Missed.. ..V.b.A.C.: Just
a yarn L.K.; “The Visitor’ was ushered
out M.P.M.: Weak WJB.: Might sneak
into a daily... .P. 8.5.: The Ploughman
homeward plods his weary way.. ..J.Y.. We
don’t like morbid ghost yarns; if we did we
wouldn’t like them unexplained... .J.C.C.: We
get that essay about twice a week E.S.:
Nothing to them... .8.A.: A paraphrased ver-
sion of Adam and Eve....L.D.: Would n praise
a laugh from a kookaburra.. ..C.L.: “You
must admit that worse yarns than this have
been printed.” Not here....F.8.: Ive been
trying to write a short story. With a very
trying result.. ..K.P.: Maupassant spun that
yarn... .H.P.: Can the Arthurian knight
w h° says ‘ O.K E.J.8.: Missed....
T.C.8.: You’ve a lot to learn,, but keep trying.
J.D.: You don’t make a story of it....
S.C.: An “epilogue,” five “moves” complete
with “sequels” and “warnings,” and a “pro-
logue.” Out!... .D.A.: Don’t like the small
boy who sawed off rats’ heads with a pen-
knife... .G.S.: No room for coincidental
dreams... .W. 0.: Nearly made the grade....
N. 8.: “I wrote this for a bet.” You 105 e....
P.T.C.: No prize for “A Ticket in Tatt.’s.”
H.P.W.: “The Boomerang” was true to
type... .N.F.S.: “The Horse” is galloping
home... .1.L.8.: Touched up and toned down
it might inveigle a flapper mag H.F.:
Nothing for the toe-biter... .D.M.C.: “What
would happen if I started to write for a living?”
Dunno... .R.J.Y.: “Thumbs” down K.L.S.;
Doesn’t make a story... .A.V.H.: The demure
damsel who hacked her name on her boy-
friend's chest with a butcher’s knife was sent
home... .J.W.: Off our beat... .D.R.G.: We
heard that one over the counter five years ago.
C.G.S.: Swift forestalled you J.Z.:
Might find a place elsewhere.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
G.F.A.: No; but have another shot
A.G.A.: You’re an uninspired scratcher and a
long-winded humorist... .D.S.: A muddled, lop-
sided affair T.L.D.: Faint reminders of the
work of the late D. H. Souter J.W.: They
helped to fill the basket... .A.C.: Sketch is a
washout and the gag antiquated N.B.L. : We
have declared a close season for that particular
quip R. 8.: Admittedly a crocodile is hard
to obtain as a model, but you should have
done better than that... .P.J.: That Capital
and Labor see-saw cartoon is a very old friend.
R.J.D.: Likewise the parson shedding ant-
ridden pants... .H.T.: Could recognise only
Pearce and Lyons out of the bunch, and that
with difficulty S.F.: That jest dates back to
the hiking craze... .R.K.: You might have
used a shaving brush dipped in liquid boot-
polish M.W.: You can’t draw children
5.J.8.: Cow cocky more like a spinifex bush
than a human being... .G.F.L.: Promising
student’s work. Let us hear from you later....
M.C.T.: Cannot judge from copies. Ask the
youngster to forward a few originals... .J.L.M.:
A dreary collection of niggardly, indistinct
strokes... .0.H.: All your energy and talent
seem to have been exhausted on the orna-
mental border... .W.W.D.: Humor in the idea,
but the effort to depict a dozen assorted animals
proved beyond you H.P.C.: King Billy goes
back to his gunyah... .8.5.: Throwing the de-
formed wrestler back on your hands F.G.:
Not amused by the conversation between the
two scarecrows... .A.M.: Are we wrong in
placing it as a futuristic picture of a snake-
pit at feeding-time? ... .M.J.: Have seen the
same fire chief leaping from the same bedroom
window before.
“Joseph”: German sausage (B.
1/9/’37) lacks atmosphere in compari-
son with the variety favored by Levan-
tines. In Egyptian restaurants I have
often seen a prosperous-looking guest,
after finishing his spaghetti, draw from
the tail pocket of his frockcoat a news-
paper parcel and, unwrapping it, expose
a sausage white with mould. After scrap-
ing and cutting off the required portion
he returned the rest to the movable
meatsafe. In any street of Alexandria
or Cairo festoons of these delicacies could
be seen adorning bedroom windows.


ccmn
laVeft
SYDNtY
UJtLCTNGTO
AUCKLAND
THE NEW
UNION
LUXURY
LINER
“AWATEA”
CROSSES THE
TASMAN IN
21 DAYS!
This 23-knot express liner has set
a new standard in Trans-Tasman
travel.
Notable modern features include the Gymnasium, enclosed Promenade and
Observation Deck, Men’s and Women’s Club Rooms, Verandah Cafe and Dance
Room, as well as the Library and Writing Room, Luxurious Lounge, Music
Room, etc.
The “Awatea” carries First and Tourist Class Passengers.
Regular Service maintained between Sydney, Auckland and Wellington.
For all Particulars apply:
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z., LTD.
(Incorporated in N.Z.)
247 George Street, Sydney.
59 William Street, Melbourne.
NO MORE TAXATION-RETURN
PROBLEMS
The Primary Producer’s Account Book
costs you £l,
but that includes the free preparation of your Income Tax
Return by
H. Rawson Stevenson,
a taxation expert, who by his thorough knowledge of
taxation methods will see that you claim the maximum
deductions, and thus save yourself many times over the
cost of the book, and endless worry.
Read what one purchaser says:
“I am enclosing my cheque for £3/0/6 to pay for three
copies of the Primary Producer’s Account Book. I showed
the book I had already bought from you to three of my
farmer sons, so they are now each wanting one, as it is
something we have been wanting a long time.”
—H.K.R. (Bogan Gate, N.S.W.)
Forward cheque for £1 (plus exchange) to
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO. PTY., LTD.,
252 George Street (Box 252 IBB). Sydney,
and the Primary Producer’s Account Book will be sent you
post free
No. 10 of a series of articles on Old Cricketers.
Australia sent a grand team to Eng-
land in 1899—Darling, Hill, Jones,
Trumble, Charlie McLeod, Johns, Wor-
rall, Laver, Noble, Iredale, Gregory,
Kelly, Howell and Trumper.
Yet Ranji, when informed of the
names, said: “They’ll lose the Tests.
Why? Because they haven’t Trott, the
working brain of Trott, that crushed us
so completely in those matches in Aus-
tralia.”
Poor Trott had had his breakdown and
was never to play representative cricket
again. Over in Melbourne for an inter-
provincial match, George Giffen was
taken to see him. Giffen had seldom
been known to exhibit emotion, but at
the sight of his old captain he was so
overcome that he cried like a child.
The South Australians wanted Giffen
to be picked for England that year, and
he showed almost his best form with the
ball; but he was chosen in the Next Best
only. The Adelaide crowd blamed
Darling for his exclusion, and when Dar-
ling made his appearance for Australia
v. the Next Best at Adelaide he was
hooted, whereas Giffen got special
cheers. Darling, Trumble and Gregory
were the selectors. For a beginning they
picked nine: Hill, Noble, Worrall, Kelly,
Jones, McLeod and themselves.
There was wild argument over the four
to be added. The Bulletin urged the
claims of Howell, mainly on these
grounds: “William’s beverage is water.
No matter what great deed he has done
he never caps the performance by setting
his inside on fire or up in the
morning with his legs wrapped round
his head. William should also do all
the public speaking. He is no orator,
but one of the advantages of cold water
is that a man’s words don’t get caught
in his teeth when they are coming out.”
Trumper’s selection was forced by
public opinion—in sport, as in politics,
so often right. Though his achievements
in club cricket had never been excelled
—for Paddington in 1897-98 his scores
were 12, 123, 125, 85, 120 not out, 191
not out, 133 and 162 not out —he had
done nothing much in inter-provincial
matches, a 68 at Adelaide being followed
by 0,4, 19, 0 and 15. And for the Next
Best v. Australia his sequence had been
6, 46, 46, 26. But he was already an
artist, and the darling of the Sydney
crowd, and his champions pointed out
that he had done better than George
Giffen in George’s early first-class
matches. The Bulletin was one of his
supporters ; the “S. M. Herald” wanted
Donnan instead.
Iredale, Johns, Howell and Laver had
been added to the nine named in the
first instance. Eventually, on the motion
of Mostyn Evans, of Adelaide, the
Australian Cricket Council agreed that
a fourteenth man should go, and
Trumper was the fourteenth. He was a
clerk in the Stores Branch at Sydney,
and a recklessly generous Government
valued his services at £65 a year.
The tour began inauspiciously, for,
after playing a draw with South of Eng-
land on the Crystal Palace ground, the
Australians were beaten by Essex, rated
one of the minor counties, at Leyton.
The match was played on a wet wicket,
and the fast left-hand bowling of Young,
a recruit from the Navy, who had been
coached by Bobby Peel, proved too much
for the visitors, who lost by 126 runs.
This happened in the second week of
MORE STUDIES IN ATTITUDES.
May, and it was the end of July before
they were worsted again, Surrey aveng-
ing, on the Oval, a defeat in the third
match.
In that third match Bill Howell intro-
duced himself memorably to the Oval
crowd. In one of Surrey’s innings he
took all 10 wickets for 28 runs. Bill did
nothing like it before and was to do
nothing like it again, but while records
are kept on the Oval his feat will be
among them. Surrey was defeated by
an innings and 71.
Victories over an English eleven at
Eastbourne and Lancashire at Man-
chester (by an innings and 84), and draws
with Yorkshire and Oxford, preceded the
first Test match at Nottingham. W. G.
Grace, though 18 stone, captained the
home team, and with him were Ranji,
Fry, Jackson, Hayward, Tyldesley, Bill
Gunn, Hirst, Storer, J. T. Hearne and
—playing his first Test match—Wilfred
Rhodes. On paper, one of the greatest
sides that ever represented England, but
only the three-days limit saved it from
de £g at
Darling won the toss, and the Aus-
tralians batted first. They were rather
slow, but they made 252 (Hill 52,
Gregory 48, Darling 47, Noble 41, Kelly
26, Trumble 16 not out; Rhodes 4 for
58, Hearne 4 for 71). None of the Eng-
lishmen was confident against Jones (5
for 88), and the fast bowler, with Noble
(2 for 36) and Howell (2 for 43), put them
out for 193 (Fry 50, Ranji 42, Grace 28,
Tyldesley 22). Hill, who had been run
out the first time, again top-scored (with
80) in the second innings, Noble (45),
Trumble (38) and Iredale (20 run out)
helping the left-hander to take the score
to 230. With Gregory to go in and
Howell and Kelly batting, Darling closed
the innings.
The Englishmen never looked like get-
ting the runs. Indeed only a stand by
Ranji (93 not out) and Hayward (28)
prevented a collapse ; Grace, Fry, Jack-
son and Gunn had been disposed of for
13 among them. When stumps were
drawn they required 135, with only Hirst,
Rhodes and Hearne to go in. Trumble
had taken 3 for 39, Jones 2 for 31 and
Howell 2 for 54.
Barlow, the old-timer from Lancashire,
was one of the umpires. The Australians
vowed that he had given Ranji not out
when the Indian was a yard out of hiS
ground, with his bat in the air; and
were so wild that they complained to
Grace about it. Major Wardill, the
manager, for his part, mentioned the
matter to the M.C.C., and Barlow um-
pired at no more Test matches.
In the second Test at Lord’s the tour-
ists lost no time and left nothing to
chance. The English selectors made great
changes in the Nottingham side, drop-
ping Grace, Gunn, Storer, Hirst and
Hearne. MacLaren succeeded W.G. as
skipper, the other newcomers being
Townsend, Jessop, Lilley and Mead.
MacLaren won the toss, but after an
hour!s batting he was a sad man, for
he, Fry, Ranji, Townsend and Hayward
had been dismissed for 31 altogether on
a perfect wicket.
Jones did most of the damage. Be-
fore he left Australia he had said that
he would reserve himself for Test
matches, and this was the match of his
life. Jackson (73) and Jessop (51) stopped
the rot, but they were all out for 206
(Jones 7 for 88).
Early on the second day it was borne
in on the spectators’ minds that their
men were going to be beaten, but they had
the privilege of witnessing some splendid
batting on the part of Hill (135) and
Trumper (135 not out). The newspaper
writers went into raptures over Trumper’s
’’classic” style—“perfect” was another
adjective applied. Noble (54) and
Trumble (24) helped to take the score
to 421 (Townsend 3 for 50, Jessop 3 for
105). Except for MacLaren (88 not out),
Hayward (77) and Jackson (37), the Eng-
lishmen gave another poor exhibition of
batting, and after Jones had bagged 3
for 76 and Laver 3 for 36, Noble, who
had had 37 runs knocked off him with-
out taking a wicket, got rid of Mead
and Rhodes. Left with a mere 28 to
make, the Australians got them without
losing a wicket.
English newspaper post-mortems on
the match were of the gloomiest descrip-
tion. “Nine of our picked batsmen out
for 73 on a good wicket!” mourned the
“Referee.” “At the outset Jones was un-
playable. Even C. B. Fry was mixed up
by his deliveries, while Ranjitsinhji, after
one beautiful stroke, was hopelessly
beaten. In the field our men were out-
classed and our attack was weak.”
Jones became a hero to the sporting
inhabitants of Cockaigne. A pressman


J AV A
Bathed in glorious tropical sunshine,
Java, with her countless attractions,
awaits you beautiful landscapes
ancient temples bazaars colourful
native life—palatial hotels. Equipped
with every modern convenience, the
t.s.s. ''MARELLA'' and m.v. "MERKUR”
sail regularly from Melbourne and
Sydney along a smooth water route.
Life on board is pleasant. Spacious
decks, restful lounges, a tiled swim-
ming pool, the latest talking picture
equipment—each day is pleasure-filled.
At your request we shall be
pleased to forward folder No. 61.
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD.
7 BRIDGE ST., SYDNEY
TELEPHONE 87901
Ĵ
J
Ĵ
J
128 ADELAIDE STREET, BRISBANE 312 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
And at ADELAIDE, FREMANTLE, CAIRNS, WELLINGTON, AUCKLAND
ft
A typical Country
Seen e —a nd a
typical Hat for the
Country
In the saddle all day long-
under sweltering heat. That’,
when the horseman appreciate
good attire. An ordinary hat
for instance, may give comfort,
hut the “Track” Riding Hal
gives the ultimate in wear
appearance and comfort.
to '■*
u
m
I
a
1
m
M
V
ijr*
Sli
■ N
■
sa
,: -x;-
The “TRACK ”
RIDING HAT
The “Track” Riding Hat is of dashing style and
comfort. Its extremely wide leaf, measuring 4 tin.,
ensures maximum comfort in sun and glare. Fhe
“Track” is made of Pure Fur Felt and is
available in Fawn or Black, with Self Band.
When ordering from Pike
Brothers, Limited, Queen Street, PRICE
Brisbane, do not forget to state 396
colour preferred and your size.
PIKE BROTHERS
LIMITED
In Queen Street -
Brisbane
asked him what he thought of the place.
“London’s all right,” said Jonah. “I
can stand it all the time. Seeing the
sights? My word, I’ve seen everything.
No, not Westminster Abbey or St. Paul’s,
but the new American bar at the Alham-
bra—my word, it’s a daisy! Dan Leno’s
not as funny as he used to be, but the
girls are as lovely as ever. Give me Lon-
don—you can have all the rest.”
Victorians did their share in the third
Test match at Leeds. Going in first on
a wicket that was anything but good,
Worrall made 76 out of 172, and then
he was run out; Hill (34) and Trumble
(20 not out) were the other double-figure
scorers. The Englishmen had again
CLEM HILL.
changed their side considerably, playing
J. T. Brown, Quaife, Hearne, Briggs and
Young in place of Townsend, Jessop,
Tyldesley, Mead and Rhodes, and Young
got 4 for 30, Briggs 3 for 53.
Batting on an improved wicket, the
Englishmen made 220 (Lilley 55, Hay-
ward 40 not out, Fry 38, Brown 27 and
Quaife 20); Briggs, who had been taken
ill, could not bat and did not play again
in the match. Trumble (5 for 60) and
Noble (3 for 82) got the wickets. The
Australians in their second innings were
disposed of for 224 (Trumble 56, Laver
45, Kelly 33, Trumper 32, Worrall 16);
but they took long enough about it to
prevent the Englishmen from getting
more than 19 towards the 177 needed
for victory.
The Fourth Test match, like the third,
was drawn rather in favor of the Eng-
JACK WORRALL.
lishmen, who started with 372 (Hayward
130, Lilley 58, Jackson 44, Young 43,
Bradley 23 not out, Ranji 21; Noble 3
for 85, Jones 3 for 136). Bradley, a fast
bowler, got on the spot early, and three
were out for 11 when Noble went in. He
played the rock and, with Trumble (44)
-and Iredale (31) helping towards the
close of the innings, 196 was reached,
•Noble’s share being 60 not out. Bradley
dook 5 for 67, Young 4 for 79.
The Australians followed on and did
much better. Again Noble (89) topped
dhe score; Trumper came to light with
; a fine 63, and Worrall (53), Darling (39),
Tredale (36 not out) and Kelly (26) kept
;the other end going. At 7 for 346
•(Hearne 3 for 54) the innings was closed,
and in a sporting effort to get the runs
the home side lost 3 for 94 (Ranji 49 not
out; Trumble 2 for 33).
It is a pity the last Test match wasn’t
played out. It took place on the Oval
and was remarkable for high scoring.
This time A. O. Jones was included in
the side and Lockwood was brought back
(with excellent results); Townsend and
Rhodes also.
England got first use of a splendid
wicket and made 576 (Hayward 137,
Jackson 118, Fry 60, Ranji 54 and Mac-
Laren 49 ; Jones 4 for 164, Noble 2 for
96). A grand bit of bowling on the part
of Lockwood kept the Australian score
down to 352 ; the Surrey express, now
a veteran, took 7 for 71 and A. O. Jones
3 for 73. For the Australians Gregory
made 117, Darling 71, Worrall 55 and
McLeod 31 not out.
In previous matches McLeod had done
little with the bat, but he was to do great
service in this match.
In the second in-
nings his stubborn
batting and that of
Noble averted a
disaster. The Vic-
torian scored 77 and
the Sydney man 69
not- out; and, with
Worrall contributing
another invaluable
75, the scoreboard
showed 254 for 5
wickets at the end
of the third and last
day’s play.
So Darling and his
men won the Test-
match rubber with-
out losing a game;
and no previous
touring team had
done that. In every-
thing but winning
the toss —he lost it
21 times and there
was a sequence of
15 matches during
which the coin spun
our way once —
Darling made a
great contribution to
his side’s record of
16 matches won, 16
drawn mostly in
the travellers’ favor —and three lost.
In the last match, against the South of
England at Hastings, won by 110 runs,
he hit a splendid 167, of which 112 were
boundary strokes, and he wound up the
tour with the highest aggregate, 1941
(then a record for an Australian in Eng-
land), and average, 41.29. Six others,
Noble (1608 at 37.39), Trumper (1556 at
34.57), Worrall (1202 at 35.35), Iredale
(1039 at 29.68), Trumble (1183 at 27.51)
'and Gregory (1181 at 27.46), got into the
thousands, and Hill (879 at 39.95) would
assuredly have done it had not illness
kept him out of the side after June. Clem
played only 23 innings; Darling had 56
and Noble 50.
The young South Australian had
throat trouble, and had to submit to an
operation. But enforced leisure had its
alleviations, for the youth was already
beginning to take an interest in horse-
racing (after his cricket career closed he
became an Adelaide stipendiary steward,
which he still is), and in England that
year there were some grand Australian
horses to take an interest in. Merman
won the Goodwood Cup and Newhaven
the City and Suburban—a race which
The Grafter, another Melbourne Cup
winner, was to land in 1900 and Austra-
tralian Star in 1901. In 1897 Merman
had won the Cesarewitch, and in 1898
Georgic the Cambridgeshire. When will
Australian-bred horses do the like again
in England?
Trumper eminently justified his last-
minute selection. Against Sussex the
youngster made 300 not out, the most
delightful, as well as the greatest, innings
of the tour. It was said that Victor
would have done even better but for his
services having been requisitioned for the
writing of refusals to bores who wanted
to invade the Australians’ dressing-rooms
and buy drinks for them and talk cricket
(after a month or so of playing every
week-day no member of any touring
team ever wants to talk cricket), and who
presented incessant demands for free
passes here, there and everywhere. This
had been a growing nuisance for years,
and in 1899 special protective measures
were found necessary.
Of course, well-wishers of the team
that followed it about were not all bores.
There was always the glad hand for men
like Dr. Laver, Frank’s brother, a prince
of good fellows, who presented each of
the 14 with a gold matchbox. Dr. Laver
had gone from Victoria to Westralia in
the roaring days, and mixed goldmining
with the practice of his profession. He
struck it lucky now and then, and years
of adversity never quenched his optimism,
He was always looking for a continua-
tion of the Golden Mile, or something
like that. Dr. Laver died in Westralia
only a few months ago. The township
of Laverton preserves his name.
Useful as Noble proved with bat and
ball, especially in the Test matches,
Trumble was undoubtedly the most valu-
able all-rounder in that team. He took
142 wickets at 18.43 ; Noble’s bag was
82 at 22.9. Howell was a success, with 117
wickets at 20.35 ; Jones a greater one —
135 wickets at 21.10. In fact, Jones that
season proved himself the best fast
bowler in the world. With McLeod (81
at 22.96) and Laver (23 at 26.91) avail-
able when the regulars were collared,
Australia had a very fine attack that
season. Neither country possesses any-
thing like it to-day.


“But that can’t have been the Governor ; that’d
be Angus.”
“Course it’s Angus. The big hairy-kneed slab.
Playing his whining bagpipes and trampin’ up and
down over my head. . Where’s he think he gets off?
An’ when I ask him what’s th’ big idea he says Sir
Hamish always likes him to play an hour in the morn-
ing and an hour in th’ afternoon. At least that’s
what he seemed to mean in that heathen lingo he
talks.”
Jerry looked a trifle worried. It would be serious
if the Governor and the man who was providing the
finance were at loggerheads. They had installed Sir
Hamish at the Federal, but if .it was to become a
regular thing for Angus to entertain his chieftain with
the pipes morning and afternoon it hardly seemed
possible that they could remain there. Nor did he
fancy tackling the Laird on the subject.
Mr. Napper came to the rescue with a bright sug-
gestion. “What about shifting him out to Trevallyn?”
“Trevallyn?”
“Oh, yes. Of course you wouldn’t know. It was
built while you were at Oxford. Down at the Bay.
Sir Thomas Waller built if for a summer residence and
only uses it for a few weeks of the year. Tries to
let it the rest of the time, but it’s usually empty.
Beautiful place, too. Why not turn it into a temporary
Government House?”
“Temporary lunatic asylum! ” snorted Pettigrew.
“I suppose it could be done,” said Jerry.
“It could be done all right. Old Waller would
be glad of a tenant. There’s a small staff of servants
there, and Sir Hamish would be as right as a bank.”
“As long as he takes that hairy-kneed piper with
him I don’t care where he goes,” commented Hiram.
“It’s all right, daddy, they’ve stopped now,” said
a soft voice at his elbow, and the three turned to
greet the American’s daughter.
| T was the first time Jerry had really had a chance
* to notice Miss Pettigrew. At the landing ground
he had merely been conscious of a pleasing face and
figure standing out in contrast by her father’s side, but
now he was suddenly convinced that it must have been
his own particular guardian angel that had guL’ed
Hiram Pettigrew to Terrigan.
“Y’ve met my daughter?” the latter was saying.
“For a moment —at the airport,” he heard him-
self say, his eyes full on Sally.
“I want y’ to know Mr. Bannister,” Pettigrew told
his daughter. “He’s a smart young guy. I’m expect-
ing a lot from him.”
“And I suppose he reciprocates,” returned Sally,
a challenging note in her voice.
Napper saved Jerry the embarrassment of an
answer.
“We’re all tremendously grateful to your father
for his assistance to the town,” he began.
“Look here,” broke in Pettigrew, “I don’t want
any boloney. I’m putting my dough into this stunt
to get even, and if you guys are goin’ t’ talk hooey
about it I’m goin’ out for fresh air. See you later,
Sally.” He made for the door.
“I’ll come, too,” said Napper, following him.
“So you’re the one that talked pop into this crazy
scheme,” said Miss Pettigrew, turning to Jerry.
Jerry was rather dismayed. “I don’t know about
that,” he replied. “He didn’t”
“Skip it,” broke in the girl. “I know what you’re
going to say. You’re going to tell me he didn’t need
any persuading. That’s just it. You took advantage
of his grouch to get him to back your plans, and now
he’s in it up to the neck.”
“I think you’re being a bit unfair.”
“Unfair! When pop’s worked hard all his life
to get a few dollars together it’s unfair to resent him
losing the lot in a hick town no one’s ever heard of?
All right, I’m unfair.”
“Let’s sit down and talk it over,” suggested Jerry.
“There’s nothing to talk over.” Nevertheless she
sank into the proffered chair.
“Now, look here, Miss Pettigrew,” Jerry began.
“You’ve got this ..all wrong. I’m not robbing your
father. Any money he puts into the town will come
back to him later on, with interest.”
“Yes, that’s exactly what the man who sold him
the South American oil wells told him.”
“Oh!”
“Also the man that sold him the Fiji gold shares.
And has it come back? It has not!”
Jerry was silent.
“Daddy made his money in pickles, and as long
as he sticks to pickles no one can put anything over
him, but as far as investments are concerned he’s easy
money for any fairy stories you like, to tell him. The
phonier they are the heavier he falls.”
Jerry managed to find his tongue. Although his
conscience was quite clear as far as any responsibility
for inducing the millionaire to back the town’s seces-
sion was concerned, he felt that to stress this point
would sound too much like making excuses. He there-
fore directed himself to correcting Miss Pettigrew’s
distrust of his motives.
“But,” he said, “you surely don’t think I’m trying
to rob your father in the same way as a swindling
company promoter?”
“I don’t see that it makes much difference in the
long run how you do it.”
“But, .honestly, you don’t think I’m trying to
swindle him at all?”
The earnestness of his appeal softened the girl a
little
“Well, you mightn’t be trying to rob him of his
money,” she said, “but he’ll lose it all the same.”
“But he won't, I tell you.”
“Of course he will. It’s all very well to say he’ll
get it back, but where’s it coming from?”
“He’s backing our debt. He’ll get his interest,
and later on when the Dominion is well established
we’ll fund the loan in London and he’ll get his prin-
cipal back.”
“No doubt you’ve got it all worked out on paper.
But all the same, that money’s gone just as sure as
if he’d dropped it down the oil well or the goldmine.
You don’t think this play-game republic will ever
amount to anything?”
As this remark coincided with Jerry’s own secret
doubts of ultimate success of the project, he was at a
loss for a reply.
“Well,” he began, “the folk are all for it, and”
“Ex-cuse, Jerry, ma lad,” interrupted Terrigan's
new Governor. “Guid afternoon, Miss Pettigrew. I
mind meetin’ ye at the weelcome.”
Sir Hamish McTaggart.
Sally bowed.
“Ah’m sorry tae complain, lad,” said the Laird.
“What is it, Sir Hamish?”
“It’s Angus. He plays th’ pipes, ye ken.”
“Yes.”
“Weel, he wants tae practise and he canna.”
“But he’s been practising already. We heard him.
At least, Miss Pettigrew heard him.”
Sir Hamish turned to Sally. “Ye heard him,
’lass?’-’
“Yes, Sir Hamish.”
’“Did ye notice anything wrang?”
“No,” replied Sally, not altogether truthfully.
* “Ah, lass, but it was unco ill.” He turned to
Jerry again. “It’s that room. It’s a wee bit sma’ for
him.”
“Small?”
“Aye, for the marching.”
“The marching?” repeated Jerry blankly.
“Aye. Ye ken the way th’ pipers march up an’
doon while they play. Well, he canna. Th’ room’s
too sma’.”
This was too much for Sally. The Laird’s face
was turned towards Jerry, and taking advantage of
this she fled. . . . - -
Jerry managed to maintain a serious demeanor
and assured the Governor that the matter would be
rectified right away.
[ “In fact,” he said, “we’ve already made arrange-
ments for a vice-regal residence for you.” And he
told him of Trevallyn.
“Ah’m richt grateful,” replied the Laird. “Angus
will be verra pleased.”
(To be continued next week.)'
ANTIPATHIES
BY LES ROBINSON.
AMATUS LUSITANUS relates the case of a
monk who would faint on seeing a rose, and
never quitted his cell when that flower was
blooming. Orfia, a less questionable authority,
tells us of Vincent, the painter, who would swoon
when there were roses in a room, even though he
did not see them. Orfia also relates the case of a
lady of forty-six years, a hale, hearty woman, who, if
present when linseed was being prepared for any of
its various uses, would have violent coughing fits,
swelling of the face and partial loss of reason for the
next twenty-four hours.
Hinting at these peculiar antipathies and aver-
sions, Montaigne remarks that there have been men
who more feared an apple than a cannonball. I had
an uncle who most decidedly wasn’t one of them.
There was nothing of the dyspeptic about him. He
didn’t like cannonballs, though, or anything—explosives
in particular—connected with them. So, although he
went to the war, he didn’t stay very long. Never
have I known a man who was so idiosyncratic, or
one who, when it suited his purposes, could seem to
have a fit so realistically, and, by chewing soap whilst
seeming to have it, foam so convincingly at the mouth.
All the nice white feathers that were sent to him
before he decided to embark for the scene of hostili-
ties, by the way, came in very handy during the
voyage, he told, me for pipe-cleaners.
Boyle records the case of a man who would faint
when his room was being swept. I don’t faint when
mine is being cleaned. The job, as there is no one
else to tackle it, would never be done if I did. I
am often nearly asphyxiated though: I cough, I
wheeze, I snort, I sneeze. Think of one of the largest
duststorms you have ever encountered or seen.
Imagine you and I in the thick of it, for neither of
us would be visible even to each other probably,
though we could converse irascibly, no doubt, in. cob-
webby undertones, and you will have a rough but
inadequate idea of what sweeping day in my apart-
ment, a somewhat infrequent spectacle, by the way.
can be and is like when, in a state of desperation
bordering on frenzy, I really get warmed up to it.
Hippocrates mentions one Nicanor who would
always swoon on hearing the sounds of a flute. My
dog’s pet aversion is the cornet. A neighbor of mine
—confound him!—is learning it. But, excruciating
though the unskilled tootling is, Bruno never
swoons. He moans and howls lustily and most mourn-
fully instead. I myself am anti-cornetic, at least to
the extent of about three and a half acres, that being
the approximate area of the corner of the suburb in
which we reside; and if I had as robust a voice as
Bruno’s I, too, would moan and howl out loud
with him. Doing so inwardly, as dogs, being very
sagacious animals, doubtless realise, does not deter
these pestiferous disturbers of nocturnal tranquillity
in the least.
The Roman Emperor Tiberius hated mankind.
James the First of England invariably shuddered when
he saw a drawn sword. Henry the Third had, like
quite a number of other people, a violent antipathv
to cats, but whether he, too, hurled boots, geological
specimens and bric-a-brac at them when they yowled
round wherever he used to sleep at night, history, to
the extent that I am acquainted with it at all events,
does not record. I knew a man once who hated work.
Mr. Mewkins, the secretary of our tennis club, says
that work-haters should be cured by lengthy terms
of imprisonment involving enforced hard labor. Many
famous persons hated anything resembling restraint.
They would not have got on at all well with Mi.
Mewkins either.
K A Y own pet aversions, just to mention a few (it
' would take weeks to compile a complete list)
are as follows: Senna-tea and Gregory’s powder,
which when a child I was forced to take occasion-
ally ; castor oil and liquid cascara ; agreements, work-
ing ones in particular, that involve rising and being
in a hurry at dawn ; rhubarb and tapioca ; women
who talk, think, behave like and should have been
men ; deferred payments to (though, of course, not
by) me; hammering, lawnmowing, and other noises
made by early-rising home-improvers, woodchoppers,
pianists, pianolians, ducks, dogs, milkmen, vocalists,
whistlers, gramophoniacs, motor-bike and wireless
enthusiasts, when after a sleepless night I am just
dozing off ; : insomnia ; other - people’s - business-
minders ; waiting ; headaches; colds ; crowds; the
sack ; writing letters; losing things, including my way ;
missing last trams and having to walk home; snakes;
spiders; barbed wire; blundering about in the dark:
tidying up; forgetfulness, (mine and other people’s);
community singing ; thunderstorms ; wet days at the
seaside; debt; bagpipes, hurdy-gurdies, drum-and-fife
bands, massed mouth-organists, gumleaf and tooth-
comb recitals, one-string fiddling, piano-accordions,
ocarinas, Scotch comic songs and imitation Scotch-
men singing ; them ; inebriated renderings of “The
Music Goes Round: (Hoo-hoo-boo-hoo-hoo-hoo-hoo.
etc., ad lib., and nauseam) and Around” in all-night
trams; Chinese music ; having to listen to disserta-
tions (seasoned with animosity) on my own innumer
able shortcomings, or to people with a fondness for
reading aloud ; . sequestration (the enforced because
of impecuniosity kind) and the massed acres of bore
dom inseparable from it.


A Course of
Pelmanism will
1. train you to remember names, faces, appointments, figures and
useful data of any kind, and to call to mind promptly the apt
word or argument;
2. strengthen your power of Concentration;
3. give you a Strong Will;
4. give you a definite Aim in life and the ability to achieve that
Aim;
3. enable you to develop Initiative and the power of accepting
Responsibility;
6. strengthen your Self-Confidence;
7. remove all trace of Inferiority Consciousness;
8. make all your contacts with other people—social, business, and
casual—easy and comfortable;
9. develop your conversational ability;
10. increase your energy, direct it into the most profitable channels,
and so enlarge your earning capacity;
11. broaden your mind and improve your judgment;
12. give you a stronger and more effective Personality.
DELMANISM is the comprehensive system of scientific Mind-Training and
Personal Development in existence. It has won the unqualified endorsement of many
of the most brilliant men and women of the day, and has been successfully adopted by over
half a million men and women of every type, occupation and station in life. ' 35,000 of
these are in Australia and New Zealand.
We shall be glad to send you a copy of “The Efficient Mind,” 76 pages, post free. You
can write us fully, or you can make just a bare application by using or copying the form
below. Your inquiry toill be regarded as a confidential communication. We have
no outside representatives.
The Pefman Institute
For the Scientific Development of Mind, Memory and Personality ,
3 Gloucester House, 388 Flinders Lane (Cr. Market St.), Melbourne.
Telephone: MU2355.
Headquarters: London. Branches throughout the World.
w- mm
i rm%
The Jays'
Corroborec
a i
..f t •
rr 'toi.
SOCIAL EASE
These birds may be discussing the
peccadilloes of an absent member of
the group, perhaps the wandering mate
of the forlorn, hump-backed figure in
the foreground, but whatever they may
be concerned with it is not with their
looks or their standing with one
another, for birds are entirely un-
self-conscious.
But, unlike the birds and the
animals, man is self-conscious. Some
of us are so self-conscious, indeed,
that it affects our relations with other
people. Even in the family and the
group to which we belong we are too
retiring or too assertive. This creates
many difficulties, not the least of which
is that we are left alone, and so miss
the agreeable associations necessary
to the formation of the habit of social
ease, for which there is really no
adequate substitute.
Time and intelligent effort may
provide an overlay, a veneer, of man-
ner and bearing that is useful, but
unless there is a true psychological
explosion there is never that real ease
which makes other people seek our
company because they are comfortable
and happy in it. The remedy lies
in the adoption of certain practices
that induce an attitude of mind favour-
able to mental occupation with matters
away from, outside and apart from
ourselves.
Pelmanism gives these practices
individual application so that the Pel-
manist ceases to be over self-conscious,
ceases to be aware of himself as an
object of the observation of others.
The effect is to cut away from the
personality a condition that seriously
clogs and hampers development, leaving
the man or woman free to discover the
things that satisfy enlightened self-
interest, and to build up energy to
secure them: in short, to give the
individuality full play.
The Pelman Institute is a world-wide organisation.
Its headquarters are in London. The Institute in
Melbourne has been established for 30 years.
More than half a million men and women have
enrolled for the Pelman Course of Mind, Memory
and Personality Training. Of these 35,000 have
enrolled with the Institute in Melbourne.
Write fully or use
the form printed
alongside.
THE PELMAN INSTITUTE,
3 Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Lane, Melbourne, C.l.
Please send your free book, “The Efficient Mind."
Name
Address
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK'S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
ic
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- f plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
9
*■»
0
£%
a®
*V
b^h\
S
\v
v ° J
c°
e*
£
&
A ' Nja^
<4
NV' t V s
#*
* 4 ' y-^lviS
■<* :,^"^
\'o c
0
o
tip
0°
e
\o
r *
Ay
\\©
vKo< v
••' A
T\\ c^
>A' vS
>T'


■ wmmm
m*.
wmm
yysag^tegy;
XX
M
m
gm
%mmm
m
m
Jx.:
x i xx-: BWaMSSmaS
E«
'i-V. : SBS HI | Pgllglp
■xX: ; xxS:x\;xx;x:
"'x;.
TASMA MODEL “415”
BATTERY MODEL DE
LUXE.
This remarkable 7-va.lve Dual
Wave Battery Receiver operates
from a 2-volt heavy-duty 15-
plate A battery. The receiver
can be operated for 150 hours
between charges. LOW “B”
BATTERY DRAIN is an out-
standing feature. Feather-Light
Rapid-Momentum Tuning Drive,
Dial Light Switch. Permeability
Tuned intermediate Frequency
Transformers, Air Trimmer Con-
densers, Continuously Variable
Tone Control, and 10-inch
Special Permanent Magnet
Speaker.
43 Guineas.
In Homestead or Carmen
Cabinet.
TASMA MODEL “435”
DUAL WAVE DE LUXE
This new 5-valve dual-wave
Tasma is available in the
“Homestead” cabinet or in the
distinctive “Carmen.” The
Tasma “435” sets an entirely
new price standard for dual
wave receivers. In addition to
the broadcast band, all overseas
stations from 15-50 metres can
be easily tuned.
Price: 28 Guineas.
This Receiver is also offered in
the “Gumnut” table model for
22 Guineas.
HOMESTEAD
CABINET
CARMEN
CABINET
TASMA STAR FEATURES for 1937
COMPARE WITH THOSE OF ANY OTHER RECEIVER.
• SUPER-SIZE 20-INCH EDGELIT
GLASS DIAL! Each scale acid-etched
into the glass, colour-filled and flood-
lit. In addition to the calibrated
short-wave scale (on dual wave sets
only) ALL 103 AUSTRALIAN
STATIONS are indicated with hair-
line accuracy.
• TWO SEPARATE AND DIFFER-
ENTLY COLOURED TUNING
SCALES are fitted to dual wave dials.
The colour of the lighting changes
when you switch from broadcast to
short wave, or vice versa.
• EXTRA TUNING RANGE at each
end of the broadcast band—and the
short-wave band has been extended
to tune from 1 6 to 50 metres.
© FEATHER-LIGHT RAPID-
MOMENTUM HIGH-SPEED TUNING
CONTROL. The swiftest and most
accurate tuning equipment ever
e\olved. The indicator can be swung
completely round the dial with one
light flick of finger and thumb—yet
so perfectly controlled that even the
most remote station can. be tuned with
micrometer accuracy.
• HERMETICALLY SEALED,
DUST-PROOF AIR TRIMMER CON-
DENSERS—N EW IMPROVED
FERRO-COIL—OPTIONAL AERIAL
TAP ensure permanent factory-
perfect reproduction even in the most
difficult areas, and no matter how
close the Tasma owner may live to a
powerful broadcasting station. A sure
safeguard against background hiss,
“jittering,’* etc., give EXTRA DAY-
LIGHT RANGE to the man in the
country.
9 SPECIAL DIAL LIGHT SWITCH
enables the dial light to be extin-
guished when the station has been
tuned in, thus reducing drain on
accumulator.
9 EXTRA VOLUME! The new
Tasma can be tuned from the faintest
whisper to full “dance hall’’ volume
without the slightest suspicion of dis-
tortion or whistle.
• LOW “A” BATTERY COSTS—CHEAPER REPLACEMENT COSTS —
ACCUMULATOR EASY TO CARRY BECAUSE OF REDUCED WEIGHT.
0
no wonder every
radio critic says
“BUY THE NEW
TASMA MODEL “475” (DUAL WAVE)
This 5-valve Dual Wave Receiver is designed- to work on
a 6-volt accumulator only.
This special vibrator-operated B-battery-less Set gives an
All Electric performance-—remarkable daylight range—
and plays all principal overseas stations as well as
Australian.
Price, 38 Guineas.
Complete with Heavy Duty 6-volt Accumulator.
In "Gumnut" Cabinet, 32 Guineas.
TASMA DE LUXE MODEL “480.”
T he illustration shows the Tasma “480” in the beautiful
“Carmen” cabinet constructed of distinctive figured
veneers of Queensland maple and walnut. In addition to
excellent broadcast performance this model provides
exceptional results on short-wave; it is a set which will
give good daylight reception in every country district.
Also available in the “Homestead” cabinet, or—for those
who prefer the table model—in the already popular
“Gumnut” type.
Price (including long-life two-volt acctlmu- 04
lator and three 45-volt Superdyne B batteries )
If jn “Gumnut” Cabinet, 28 Guineas.
Guineas
ig
.
HARVESTER GABIWEI
TASMA MODEL “430” DE LUXE
5 VALVE BROADCAST RECEIVER.
It is stated after exhaustive tests that no other
broadcast receiver at the price of the Tasma
“430” can give such magnificent performance.
Offered in popular “Harvester” cabinet (as
illustrated) or in the new “Ronsard” cabinet
by Beale, this receiver possesses all the
AEW TASMA STAR FEATURES.
Price, 23 Guineas.
(Also available in the " Gumnut” table
cabinet, 19 yuincas.)
GUMNUT CABINET
THE SURPRISE CABINET OF 1937
THE “GUMNUT” TABLE CABINET.
A special Table Cabinet to listeners who
require something smaller than a console. It
should be noted, however, that, in spite of the
reduced dimensions of this cabinet, standard
chassis and speaker are used, giving console
performance and tonal reproduction.
Any of the following models are available—
430-435, 475-480, as described in this
advertisement.
Model “430” De Luxe A.C. Model in “Gumnut”
Table Cabinet.
Price, 19 Guineas.
Model “435” A.C. Dual Wave De Luxe
Receiver in “Gumnut” Table Cabinet.
Price, 22 Guineas.
Other models range
from 15 to 56 Cns.
Ĵ
Victoria: HARTLEYS BTY., LTD., 270
Flinders Street, Melbourne.
JOHN HOLLWAY AND SONS, 40 Armstrong
Street , North, Ballarat. (Ballarat Distributors.)
South Australia: OLIVER J. NILSEN
and CO., LTD., 40 King William Street,
Adelaide.
Queensland: NOYES BROS. (SYDNEY),
LTD., 107 Elizabeth Street, Brisbane.
(Wholesale Distributors.)
G. .1. GRICE. LTD., 90-92 Queen Street,
Brisbane; Rockhampton and Cairns.
Queensland —Darling Downs: ROSEJi-
STENGELS I’TV., LTD., Ruthven Street,
Tootvoomba.
Western Australia: CARLYLE & CO.,
915-917 Hay Street, Perth.
Tasmania: NOYES BROS. (MELB.) PTY.,
LTD., 36 Argyle Street, Hobart. And 59
George Street, Launceston.
Pwwl „ rt of THOM AND SMITH, LIMITED, 29-39 Botany Road, Mascot.
rrouu
