

Waarom u niet iederen
DAG LEKKER VOELEN ?
II
• I -T» r a <IA *»
-hw)d frcw
m
*
(v
Cc.
: i
!S
K
Cjh=—r
V
\
~ThJ'o ifle, DuiS for ...
"Why not feel fit every day?
Women everywhere have found that Wolfe’s Schnapps enables them to feel fit every
day throughout the year. This purest of all gin spirits , distilled in Holland, contains
unique medicinal properties which invigorate the whole system.
Wolfe’s Schnapps eliminates many distressing disorders by cleansing the kidneys and
purifying the blood stream. Start taking a glass of Wolfe’s Schnapps each day, you’ll
notice the improvement in your general health. Get a bottle to-day — there
are three sizes, large, half and quarter bottles, at prices to suit your purse.
LFES
OMftTiC
CBKDAM
RAPPS
WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS
is obtainable in large,
half and quarter size
bottles at all hotels.
WOLFE'S
<Srlmdam
SCHNAPPS
As good for Women as for Men w.5.6.f.p.
The Bulletin
Vol. 58.—N0. 2999.
Wednesday, August 4, 1937.
Price 6dL
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


DYMOCK’S NEW LIBRARY
CATALOGUE FOR 1937
is now ready and will be forwarded post free
with terms and particulars on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
“The Block,”
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
Learn
SHE™ 30
GETSOTI
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne,
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name ...
My Address
S.B. 187
S. H. Prior Memorial Prize
Fourth Competition Closes June 6, 1938.
Full particulars of this annual literary award will be published
here from time to time, or may be had on application to The
Bulletin, 252 George-street, Sydney.
For this current competition only novels are eligible, and the
Prize will be awarded to that which is considered the most
outstanding contribution to Australian literature.
The trustees will publish the successful work m book form,
and in serial form any they may deem worthy. If published as a
serial the winner will be paid for at serial lates in addition to the
prize-money. Any others used as serials will also be paid for at
serial rates. Australian resident or any person born in
Australia New Zealand or British South Pacific islands will be
eligible to enter for the competition works which must be the
orfeinal work of the entrants, and previously unpublished, either
wholly or in part, in book or serial form. Manuscripts must be
submitted under a non, de plume, and the true name and address
of the author must accompany each entry m a sealed envelope,
which will not be opened until the judges have made their decision.
The trustees reserve the right to withhold the Prize if no work
submitted is, in the opinion of the judges, worthy of an award.
If this should occur in any year, the amount of the Prize will be
added to the following year’s Prize.
The Red Page
A YOUNG MAORIIAND POET.
It may be only superficial political activity—the
assertiveness of Labor politics in conflict with con-
servatism —but the impression left with some who view
it from Australia is that, just now, there is a vigorous
revival stirring Maorilanders. If it is what it looks to
be, it is a pity that a young poet who might have
been as well served by such a renascence as he would
have served it should this year have published his
book of poems there and left for England.
There is no young poet more able to be the poet
of such a Maoriland than Douglas Stewart. The most
outstanding quality in his verse is its muscular vitality.
It is vigorously alive. There are black, impatient
moods in it; a good deal of brooding over life’s
imponderables and engagement with the grim aspects
of nat§te. Often he is in the mood of these stanzas
from “The Winter-crazed”:
The land’s bewitched, as silly as a sheep,
And watched, if watched at all, by vast inanes.
All day persists the rainy light of dawn
And stupid cocks, not knowing night is gone,
Crow like mad bells and maze the mooning noons
So gradual the slope from sleep to slumber
We dope and daydream, never up to nines,
Our limbs night-slack, our faces water-wan.
Grey shadows in a shadowy grey world
We clutch grey stony air to find it vanish:
Something forbids (Medusa’s boding stare)
The clearer exploration of the air
Lest we should see ourselves and freeze and finish.
Even the simple fields, thick cattle, are forbidden
Lest we should find grass glass and leaves a varnish
And cattle ghosts, and something monstrous there.
If hedge is beast and hills like tigers purr
And stones like old men cough or moan like shells,
If grass like water chuckles at our knees,
We hardly know: more things than bodies freeze.
Whether the fishy light that round us shoals
Exists at all, or will exist, and whether
It drapes our day in silver shrouds or shawls
We dare not know. Our wives are weird as trees.
Only the flickerlands of books or talkies,
More vivid shadows, give us sense of living;
Our eyes prefer the easier illusion
To morning’s mistiness and day’s confusion.
There in the black-and-white we do our loving,
Murder and laugh and cry with great content,
Assured of life since living we are leaving
For ghostland safe from land or ghosts’ intrusion.
What he calls “the growing strangeness” has
taken a deep hold of him:
I have a tree’s tongue now and speak for stone
And cattle’s bony moods I’ve made my own.
If difference is, it’s one wry silver leaf
Or the faint spiral that the cricket shrills,
A valid phrase, but hardly qualifying
The blunt grey statement of New Zealand hills.
This ragged aspect of his country thrusts out of most
of his verse; as here again:
In roaring iron I find the Maoris’ legend—•
Raging for love a mighty mountain surges
Across a countryside in scarlet thunder:
Here in the clanging rune the traffic forges
The bitterness of ageing rock is heard,
The bells and moaning in the distant gorges,
And I who have mastered mountains now must win
Peace in an iron avalanche of din.
Life to him, so far, has this maddening power. It
is a goad ; a force striking out of the dark. He is
neither pessimistic nor optimistic about it. It is there ;
it is a turmoil and a madness, a jungle lurking with
strangeness. It is not far from the green lions roaring
in the bay to the inside of city banks:
The bay is gouged by the wind.
In the jagged hollows green lions crouch,
And stretch,
And Slouch,
And sudden with spurting manes and a glitter of haunches
Charge at the shore
And rend the sand and roar.
And inland, in offices and banks,
Though trams clang down and heavy stone resists,
The mutter of distant carnage still persists,
And men denied the jungle of young years
Grow taut, and clench their fists.
Not far, either, from there to where he came
And dead as stone in age-old leathery silence
Crouched with two savages beside a fire
And, as a dog knows, knew them both for friend.
Corncobs and drying shark were hung on wall
And sooty kettle swung from a black chain;
And rain outside, and shadows in. Ihe woman
Jabbed at the embers. And then was still again.
But out of his verse, mainly by way of such
contrasts, even in this slender sheaf he has called
Green Lions, emerges a vital poetic conception of
Maoriland in the clash of the primitive and the civil-
ised. This is very vigorously expressed, with flashes
of lyrical beauty breaking in, as when he sees a
“Poplar in the Mimi Valley”:
She holds a golden coin between her teeth
This winter singer who is not afraid,
And wind or the dark audience of trees
Watching and envying, on the grass beneath
Have showered tribute even as 1 do now,
Guinea on guinea, a golden cannonade;
and he has the thought that
a milker of the cows
Who heavily through this surly valley passes
Might put a golden feather in his cap.
The form is traditional —that is, Stewart is inherently
a poet, and not someone striving after versical effects
-—but the rhythm of it belongs not only to his time
and place but to himself. No more self-contained
poet has had anything to say in these parts for many
years. The early Yeats would be an influence ; but
it is a more significant line that Stewart sent only two
copies of his book overseas —to John Cowper Powys
and to Roy Campbell. Powys wrote to him: —
A real and true poet and an authentic genius; and
it is a shock and an astonishment to me to see the
words “Printed for the Author” in place of “Published
by”
Mr. Powys has missed one draught to be drawn
from Stewart’s verse —the truth of his insistence on
the primitive. It does not seem so remarkable here-
abouts that to get his poetry published a poet must
foot the bill; the contrary would be astonishing. The
publishers —Whitcombe and Tombs —deserve credit
for a handsome book.
At all events, Stewart washed dishes on a coastal
tramp to get to England. It is unlikely that he will
write well there, and he is not facile enough to turn
into the usual expatriate romance-foundry overnight.
Even when he was in Australia for a few months
about two years ago he did not write very
well. All his good work is bound up with his own
country. So it may not be a wild prediction that he
will be peeling potatoes on a tramp heading south
again before he is much older. It would be, probably,
the best thing for himself, as it would, without any
doubt, be a great gain for the country which he has,
as yet, only begun to bring forward in his poetry.
Nijinsky.
The Russian ballet, as seen on the Australian
stage, and as presented in Western Europe for nearly
30 years, is a development of the classical ballets
produced in the Imperial theatres of St. Petersburg
and Moscow primarily for the entertainment of the
Russian rich in pre-revolution days.
In its new form it called for music that was written
for action more than for melody and rhythm ; for
painting that expressed not the scene but the idea ;
for costumes that dressed the character and not the
person. From the dancers it demanded interpretation,
not alone with the legs and the toes, but the whole
body, so that an enraptured critic could say of Zucchi
“There is more poetry in her back than in all the
modern poets of Italy.”
It is not so certain that it did not make greater
demands on the audienpe than their interpretative
capacity could supply, though this was to some extent
remedied by the reams of explanation that preceded
and accompanied each performance.
Russian ballet was introduced to Western Europe
by Diaghileff, who was not a dancer, composer
or painter, yet, as Haskell claims, was a
creative artist in that he discovered talent and
moulded it to the finished presentation of a perform-
ance. If he had not on one occasion objected so
emphatically, one might have adequately described
him as an entrepreneur.
It was Diaghileff who first saw that a new interest
in the world of entertainment could be devised by
the creation of performances based on dancing alone,
by the fusing of individual dancing talent, appropriate
music, scenery and costumes into a spectacle that
resolved itself into a new form of art.
Yet it is doubtful if Russian ballet would have
excited the interest it has done were it not for the
extraordinary series of romances and tragedies that
became associated with the names and persons of its
stars. Around these popular interest will be centred
and publicity for the ballet will be for many years
associated, so that the object of Diaghileff to subordi-
nate the solo dancer into the performance as a whole
tends to become defeated, and the story of the ballet
to become a personal one again.
Greatest of all exponents of Russian ballet was
Nijinsky. Most talented dancer of the Russian school,
he would have remained unknown to the outside world
had not Diaghileff given him world-wide fame by
taking him to Europe, himself incurring world-wide
infamy in the process. Nijinsky turned insane, and
his widow, in a biography, branded Diaghileff as his
evil genius, his Svengali. And though Haskell in his
biography of Diaghileff put the relationship between
the two men in an honest, judicial light, she followed
this by the unpardonable publication of the diaries
of Nijinsky written during the period when he was
already going mad.
Now Anatole Bourman, a fellow-student and
constant personal and professional friend of Nijin-
sky appears with The Tragedy of Nijinsky (Robert
Hale ; 12s. 6d. net), which is an illuminating if not
altogether convincing portrait of the man from his
student days to his living death. (He is still alive,
after 20 years in a sanatorium, a hopeless lunatic
staring into vacancy.)
Bourman, whose stage-name was Kouchinsky
and who married Klementowitsch, with whom Nijin-
sky himself was once in love, certainly presents an
intimate picture of the dancing genius, and possibly
discloses the reason for his mental failure. It would
appear to rest in the fact that Nijinsky, so perfectly
developed physically that the doctors in St. Peters-
burg often studied the action of the muscles beneath
his satiny skin, was not only underfed, but was a
failure at school in everything but physical exercises,
and was passed into the Imperial ballet school only
because of his supremacy as a dancer. He was simply
not endowed with the mental equipment necessary
to sustain great dramatic roles or great public suc-
cess, and his brain collapsed.
Nijinsky literally danced his way into fame in
Russia, and as literally danced his name into disgrace
there. Those trained for and accepted as members of
the Imperial theatres were bound to remain as Im-
perial dancers unless dismissed, and could dance
abroad only by special leave. Nijinsky, eager for the
bigger financial prizes in the theatres of Europe,
deliberately brought about his own dismissal by danc-
ing before members of the royal family in skintights
which revealed every outline of his body. Bourman
does not hesitate to suggest that this was the scheme
of Diaghileff, eager to secure Nijinsky’s services as
a star in the company he was forming for appear-
ances abroad.
It served its purpose. Nijinsky was the rage of
Europe. But the temperaments of Diaghileff and
Nijinsky, tempestuous both, were bound to clash, and
within a few seasons Nijinsky made his engagements,
not with Diaghileff, but with the theatres direct. He
even organised his own company, but without Diag-
hileff’s direction he was a failure. The attitude a,
Diaghileff is then revealed as almost diabolical, and
Bourman is too eager to be on the side of “his best
friend” to be just to Diaghileff.
The delusions that beset Nijinsky in the last tour
of South America are feelingly told. It was the begin-
ning of the twilight.
Bourman’s biography covers most of the great
figures of the ballet, and is a necessary companion
volume to Haskell’s Diaghileff for a knowledge of
the remarkable development of a form of art that
has attracted crowded houses in all continents when-
ever presented. It may be a phase, or it may be a
lasting influence, but whether it will remain, as is
claimed by its ardent enthusiasts, “a permanent form
of art” would appear to rest in the continued creation
of Nijinskys, the continued creation of Pavlovas, and
great artists such as these are not perennials.
The Art of Worrying.
The editions of scientific and pseudo-scientific
uplift books issued annually in the U.S.A., if placed
end to end, would stretch half-way from here to the
moon. Psychologists predominate among the authors
of these tomes, which is not surprising, since it ha--
been noted by unscientific observers since the days
of good Bishop Berkeley and Emmanuel Kant that
students of what has come to be called psychology,
and later psychiatry and psychoanalysis, seem to
attain very speedily a capacity for using thousands
and thousands of words to announce their rediscovery
of the simplest elements of human experience. An
aphorism which an Old Testament prophet would
put into one pithy sentence, or which Emerson or
Carlyle might expand into a paragraph, is material
for a whole book in the hands of a modern Ameri-
can uplifter with a psychological training.
A case in point is How to Worry Successfully,
by David Seabury (Little, Brown and Co., $2.50;
from Angus and Robertson). This work has won for
itself a wide circle of readers. It has been four times
reprinted since its first publication last September,
and in many respects it is not at all a bad book. It
is written in a chatty, reasonable, practical style, and
the author has the good sense to quote a page of
Emerson, beside whom, he says, Freud, Jung and
Adler are “mumbling conservatives.” The Emerson
excerpt concludes with “Nothing can bring you peace
but yourself.” The seer of Concord wasn’t the sort
to rush to books or to people for advice concerning
his problems. He battled them out for himself. Mr.
Seabury knows quite well that’s the only way to
(Continued on page 8.)


TRUTH IN ADVERTISING” —cind in every cict. FAMOUS FOR LOW PRICES. “THE SENIOR STORE”
Anthony Horderns’
BETTER AND CLEANER'f^
aj dn rnrfr
vcnb men var
lmrfrp
YOUR
ATTRESS
fcitArt H
HYGIENE
CAMPAIGN
BETTER {-CLEANER BEDDING
means sounder sleep-—greater rest!
# One third of your life is spent in bed. v
0 Sound, restful sleep is one of the greatest factors in maintaining good
health.
DO YOU ENJOY A GOOD NIGHT'S SLEEP?
A good night’s rest, how refreshing it is. What happy vigour it brings. Sound sleep with
resultant healthfulness depends on many things, one of the most important being a comfortable
mattress on which your body can relax, resting in a correct position, straight, not sagging.
Examine your present mattress. Does it give such support? ■
Are you risking your good health by continuing to use what might be old and unhygienic
bedding? -
If so, why not choose a new mattress from the list below —a mattress that will give you
maximum comfort and ensure you a complete night’s rest?
In spite of the large increase in the prices of Kapok and
Ticking and the increased cost of production, our price
list for Better Bedding remains unchanged. This should be
an incentive for thrifty people to buy Better Bedding* with-
out delay. Just think! You spend more time in sleep than in
any other one thing you do. Isn't it good judgment to spend
as much money as you can afford to get the best mattress?
All our Bedding is HANDMADE in our own factory. Only
one Kapok is used, that is, the BEST JAPARA. The tickings
used are of the finest qualities and each grade represents
the utmost value.
You are urged to take advantage of our BETTER BEDDING
CAMPAIGN to replace old and uncomfortable mattresses
while this offer is before you.
WHAT WE DO AND
WHAT YOU DO
1. —YOU select your fresh bedding from our unrivalled assortment, the
prices being, as always at Anthony Horderns’, the lowest possible,
quality considered. BUT—note this! Off our “Famous Low Prices”
you receive a generous rebate on your old bedding. WE WILL ALLOW
YOU £1 FOR YOUR OLD MATTRESS IF YOU PURCHASE A NEW
FULL-SIZE ONE. If you decide on a Mattress smaller than 4ft. 6in.
wide WE WILL ALLOW YOU 10/- off the price of the new one.
THIS, OF COURSE, IS OFF OUR STANDARD PRICES AS QUOTED
IN OUR REGULAR PRICE LIST. We do not include flock or fibre
bedding in this offer, as we do not recommend them as “Better Bedding.”
2. —WE WILL deliver your new bedding without charge (if you live
in the Metropolitan Area), and special vans will pick up your old
Mattresses and remove them.
COUNTRY CUSTOMERS.
3. COUNTRY CUSTOMERS may also participate. Write for details.
M
//
. ..A:
Wot&i
. wm
V Jr TICKING m
/PURE FELTED §
/ COTTON Jp
r CURLED HAIR
STOUT CANVAS
SPIRAL SPRINGS’S^ST
Hm
SPRINGS
SEPARATELY
CASED
■U
«. .i
rm
fpTT
A), U
Quality DD. Blue and White
A good medium quality mattress, with borders, in
strong black-and-white tickings. Handmade throughout.
Sizes 2ft. 6in. 3ft. 3ft. 6in. 4ft. 4ft. 6in.
Mattresses: £l/14/6 £2/0/6 £2/7/6 £2/15/- £2/19/6
Pillows, 4/- each.
Quality D. Cot. Tick Blue and White
Plain Blue and White Striped Ticking, having 3in. borders
(aped. Comfortably filled, handmade throughout and tufted.
Sizes 2ft. 6in. 3ft. 3ft. 6in. 4ft. 4ft. 6in.
Mattresses: £l/7/- £l/12/6 £l/18/- £2/4/6 £2/8/6
Pillows, 4/- each.
Quality F. Belgian or Union Tick
Belgian Striped or Union Ticking of good quality. 3in.
double-stitched taped borders; handmade throughout, and
well filled.
Sizes 2ft. 6in. 3ft. 3ft. 6in. 4ft. 4ft. 6in.
Mattresses: £2/3/6 £2/10/- £2/18/- £3/13/6 £3/19/6
Pillows, 6/- each.
Quality H. Floral Best Special
Similar in weight and quality to H Quality, but covered in
finest floral Damask Ticking, and in a variety of colourings.
Sizes 2ft. 6in. 3ft. 3ft. 6in. 4ft. 4ft. 6in.
Mattresses: £3/17/6 £4/10/6 £5/2/6 £5/17/6 £6/7/6
Pillows, 8/6 each.
Quality H. Best Belgian Linen
A Super Mattress with 6in. piped borders. Covered in best
Belgian Striped Linen, various colours, or Linen Blue and
White Ticking.
Sizes 2ft. 6in. 3ft. 3ft. 6in. 4ft. 4ft. 6in.
Mattresses: £3/12/6 £4/4/- £4/16/6 £5/10/6 £5/17/6
Pillows, 8/- each.
Quality GG. Belgian or Union Tick
Has similar coverings to G Quality, but is more heavily filled.
sin. borders, piped and double-stitched. Undoubtedly very
good value.
Sizes 2ft. 6in. 3ft. 3ft. 6in. 4ft. 4ft. 6in.
Mattresses: £2/19/6 £3/6/6 £3/16/6 £4/5/6 £4/17/6
Pillows, 6/- each.
# Bedding—Third Floor. Free Delivery City and
Suburbs only.
"Hordernian"
Spring-Filled
MATTRESS
Full-size mattress con-
taining 408 spiral springs
encased in separate
pockets. Layers of
fleecy-felted cotton and
hair plated on each
side of the springs en-
sure perfect comfort.
Best quality Blue and
White Belgian Ticking
Coverings.
Mattresses: 2ft. 6in., £5/17/6; 3ft., £6/15/-; 3ft. 6in., £7/12/6; 4ft., £B/10/-;
4ft. 6in., £B/19/6. In Linen Floral Ticking, 6/- each extra.


A Fine Horse Story
Beash that perish
By EMary Gniney
ILLUSTRATED BY M. LYNN GURNEY.
FRANGIPANNI stood with his head out of the
opened upper door of his box and listened to
the sea. It had a different note to-night, a
calling note. The wind that lifted from it was
cool and brisk. It went past him, coming from the
desolation of the sea, hurrying on towards the long
leagues of the land. It seemed to him that there was
ecstasy in its touching of his face. There was about
it a breathless haste, as though somewhere away under
the night it had significant business with the stars.
The tops of the pohutukawas were black against
the sky. The steady calling of the sea had the high
fluid note of a gale, but the sway of the treetops was
almost imperceptible. Through them, Frangipanni
could see the brightness of stars and the dark bulk of
high hills across the bay. Forlorn the earth looked,
and eerily lovely under the night.
Frangipanni knew it, as beasts know the dark
of the world. The earth was part of his heart. Land
scents were rich with the promise of life. There was
peace in it and the surety of abundance, but in the
tang of the sea he smelt only death.
He moved his head uneasily, tossing it a little,
flaring his nostrils to drink deeply of the hastening
wind. It engendered in him a hatred of the box in
which he was housed, of its warmth and security. The
wind smelt of the sea, but it smelt, too, of the gorse
that clothed the flanks of the steep hills beyond the
bay. There was adventure in it —the song of remem-
bered things.
Frangipanni snorted, shaking his white head,
bunching his quarters and rearing a little, lifting him-
self on powerful hocks. Full of oats, and fit as the
ingenuity of man could make him, he knew a sense
of omnipotence, but he was old. Built for stamina
rather than speed, with the short back and mighty
quarters of a born jumper, his was a name to con-
jure with wherever men and horses flew big timber.
He snorted again, rearing high and higher, coming
to earth light as thistledown on his bandaged fore-
legs ; but it was not his legs that he mistrusted, but
his shoulders, in which were little nagging pains.
Across the bay the moon rose, and the bulk of
the hills was yellowed, lightening slowly to ivoried
white. The clefts in them were abysmal, but the
crests were phosphorescent and naked, like skeletons.
Frangipanni stared unwinkingly. He watched the
stars and the slow-moving treetops. The call of the
sea was an ache in his heart. The fluttering fingers
of the wind spoke to him of the times that were past.
The night went down the sky, and the little folds
of the land came up out of the darkness and were
green and friendly and comforting with their illusions
of immortality. In the pines behind the hill a more-
pork raised a bitter plaint against the dawn, but close
at hand a lark went up and woke the world with
its song. Frangipanni watched the thin column of
smoke go up from the rear chimney of the big house
and whinnied for his feed.
When Du Maurier came, Frangipanni reared,
yawning hugely.
“Have a care with those legs! ” said Du Maurier.
“I’ve backed you to win me two hundred golden
sovereigns. And Chota Sahib is young and sound.”
Frangipanni snorted disdainfully.
WHEN in the early fore-
noon Du Maurier
brought the trailer into the
yard, Frangipanni knew that
he was in no fit case to jump.
Jarring sent a pain like
knives up and down his
shoulders. But he came out
of the box with a leap and a bound that nearly sent
Du Maurier flying.
The man laughed, swearing a little, but there
was a flush of pride on his tanned face.
Stripped of his sheet, Frangipanni was magnifi-
cent, muscular and hard as nails. His milky coat had
the sheen of glass.
“When they ask me how old you are, I lie,” Du
Maurier assured him, throwing the monogrammed
rug over him. “I tell them you’re twelve —maybe
thirteen! Steady, you old fool! But the stud book
has you seventeen off —and they know it. You're not
a horse, you’re a miracle!”
Frangipanni shook his head, snorting. The smell
of the sea was in his nostrils. He shuddered and
turned his back on the cliffs, his nostrils questing for
the sweet warmth of the earth that is instinct with
life. Du Maurier coaxed him into the trailer and
drove cautiously out of the yard.
The white shell roads glittered in the sun, wind-
ing inland away from the moan of the sea. They
went down and up between hedges of golden gorse
and hawthorn hedges that were drab with dust.
Presently the shell gave place to the dark red-brown
of scoria, wavering between grey walls of it, over
which brambles and bracken rioted, drunk with the
sun. Then they were running smoothly along the con-
crete highway, between neat bungalows with blank,
disapproving faces.
Arrived at the show grounds, Frangipanni mis-
behaved. He waltzed on his hind legs, and Du
Maurier, not knowing about those nagging pains in
his shoulders, was amused.
Julian Bell, in the next box, was amused too.
“He’ll wear himself out. The money’s in my pocket! ”
But Du Maurier only laughed. “He’s got a bee
in his bonnet! He’s too fit.”
Chota Sahib was magnificent. A bay with jet-
black points and that indefinable something that sets
a horse apart. Frangipanni had it. That dauntless
courage and undying faith that in men make heroes.
Du Maurier had it. In young Bell’s fape it was like
a white light.
Chota Sahib contested several events. ’His jump-
ing was a revelation. “Reminds me of Frangipanni
at his best,” they said.
In his box Frangipanni waited. Under his cover
his milky coat was dappled with sweat. Watching
the crowds come and go and the milling, excited horses
he forgot the ache in his shoulders and thrilled to
the old exalting sense of power.
Du Maurier stayed with him most of the time,
worrying. He massaged Frangipanni’s legs, reband-
aged them and pulled his ear. “It’s the last time, old
horse. After this it’s quiet fields and green pastures
for your ending ; but we’ll go out with the flag flying.’
He saddled up with careless carefulness and led
Frangipanni out of the box. Frangipanni reared. It
eased the weight off his shoulders and the wild excite-
ment that was riding him.
Young Bell, pocketing a red ribbon, was envi-
ously admiring. “This isn’t a circus, fellow! It’s
serious business. He’s overfed.”
“He’s immortal,” countered Du Maurier, but,
secretly, he worried. Getting on his hind legs had
never been one of the old horse’s failings, and, back
.of his mind, the man knew that there was a good
reason for it. Those legs, on which he could And no
blemish...
“They’re calling you,” said Bell. “Good luck!”
APPLAUSE followed them into the ring. Du
Maurier rode over and spoke to the steward in
charge of the jump. “Make it seven nine, Joe.”
The steward demurred. “Work up from seven.
Let him get his eye in.”
“His eye’s as good as ever it was ; but his legs —
there’s something”
He swung Frangipanni away, sliding his hand
along the strong, arched neck. Under his fingers it
was damp.
To the pressure of his knees Frangipanni swung
again and leaped into his stride. Before him the jump
towered, but for once the white horse was thinking
less of it than of the aching pain in his shoulders.
Du Maurier felt the slight hesitation and shifted the
bit in his mouth. Frangipanni’s ears shot forward.
The great logs loomed.
“Now!” said Du Maurier.
They soared up, sure as a winged thing. Frangi-
panni’s hind legs, fucked under him, touched his belly.
Between them and the top log a man might have
thrust his hand. Ears laid back to his neck and nos-
trils flared, he skimmed to earth.
The jarring of landing did something to the white
horse. Red-hot knives seared his shoulders, and,
pulling up, he stumbled, recovering on his haunches, to
mark time with his forefeet. Du Maurier flung him-
self out of the saddle, caressing him, talking to him ;
and Frangipanni tossed his head and stepped off
freely, disdainful of the pain that was consuming him.
Puzzled, the man led him away.
Chota Sahib came into the ring, moving sedately,
but his full eyes snapped with excitement. Going
down to the jump, his was the power of a dam un-
leashed. He went up like a rocket, his legs folded
under him, ears full cocked, but the heel of one shoe
clipped the bar. Ever so gently it rocked, and Chota
Sahib landed with a little grunt in Frangipanni’s
tracks.
Young Bell pulled a wry face, patting the horse’s
sweat-dark neck, and Du Maurier swung into the
saddle again and rode up to him. “He’s got class,
Julian. If we touch we’ll forfeit.”
Young Bell dismounted and stood with his hands
on his hips frowning at Frangipanni.
“He looks 0.K.,” he said at last. “But if you’d
like to call it off for to-day”
“It’s a case of now or never,” sighed Du Maurier.
“The old chap has shot his b01t... Tell Joe to raise
it a couple of inches.”
Bell grimaced again. “The Sahib made a good
jump, but it was a near thing.”
“It’s going to be near! ” Du Maurier assured him.
Frangipanni hit his stride with all his old fire, but
because of something the jar of landing had done to
him he lost his judgment, and for the first time in his
life he baulked.
Du Maurier chided him with soft profanity, but
his hand on the white horse’s neck held no rebuke.
Only, turning back from the jump, Frangipanni
sensed uncertainty on his rein. Not fear, but per-
plexity.
Back at the distance, Du Maurier reined up and
looked at the jump. Unconsciously his hand slid
along the arched, sweating neck. Frangipanni leaped
to the touch of it. His shoulders ached, ached, ached,
but this time there was no mistake. Free as a swallow
in flight he went up, clearing the mighty obstacle like
a bird in flight, but as the ground rushed up to meet
him. he seemed to shut up like a bird winged, landing
in a crashing heap, with De Maurier pitched av/av
over his head. Frangipanni lurched to his feet, his
full, soft eyes clouded with distress. Whinnying, he
went to the fallen man, nuzzling him ; and Du
Maurier staggered up dazedly and led him aside, curtly
rejecting offers of assistance.
Chota Sahib came down, a thing of fire and flame,
his nostrils flaring red ; but almost on the take-off he
wavered imperceptibly, and Bell called him. Full
fifteen feet from the jump the bay horse took off,
and it was just too far. Descending, his hind legs
fouled the top rail, dislodging it, and Chota Sahib
landed in a scramble, pulling up a trifle lame.


Bell slid to the ground and ran an anxious hand
over a marked fetlock, and then turned to Du Maurier,
holding out his hand.
“The best man and the best horse!” he said.
Im glad you won!”
He put his hand on the horse’s neck, and then
looked at Du Maurier. “There is something wrong,
He’s trembling and shaking like a leaf. You’d better
take him home and get a vet to him ”
-X/* J •
Vets., said Du Maurier sorrowfully. “They
can t cure anno Domini! I knew... All the time
1 knew ” • •
IT was dark before they reached home. The clouds
1 lay close down on land and sea, blotting out the
stars. The night was humid, and the little winds fled
by with feverish haste
Fronoimnm A a a
hill whose eastern side t' rl- green
hiJ ,? , dOW " ° lhe CilftS> WaS
, ~ r s nside him was a pain
lat made him forget the nagging pains of his shoul-
ders. A pain that seared so that the sweat rolled
from him in beads.
“ Inte ™ a ?>” said the vet -> and dosed him with bitter
potions. Give him a couple of days; but I’m afraid
ie s nis J V .
. Maurier had stayed with him for hours ; had
hnally let him out into the paddock, since his heart
a nd down.
ln CnCket chirred W * th ° h f erM u monot °ny,
and from the pines a morepork cried with spasmodic
loneliness, but Frangipanni did not hear them Under
the darkness of his pain he heard only the’insistent
crying of the sea ; heard under it the voices of the
untrammelled hills beyond the bay.
“Cool!” crooned the sea. “Cool! Cool! Cool!”
And the hl,ls cned P eace -
Towards the morning the. clouds lifted a little
and a m * st cre Pl * n from the sea. Through the sway-
l n S to P s °f tbe pohutakawa trees gleamed a star.
Frangipanni went down to the gate and stared
over i( . his nostrils to the wind. He bunched
his great quarters and lifted himself, kicking off as
powerfully as of old, but, landing, sprawled on his
side and lay in the roadway while a bloody foam
lathered his back-drawn lips.
In the east the star paled. Frangipanni lurched
to his feet and went down the road, wavering from
side to side, his proud head low. Once, on the curve
to the shore, he stumbled to his knees. Once, on the
sands, he paused and coughed blood.
The little waves crept up the sand, crooning.
“Cool! Cool! ”
T • j u■
Inside him was the terrible burning pain. He
Smelt death ? the , sea ’ but he d,d not fa,ter - The
Waves , Crep ! fro " 1. b ? of u to knee > from knee to bel, y
and zpped „ at hIS thlghs ;
“Cool!” they said• “Cool!”
Waves ’ wind - to ssed, smothered him with spray
and lifted him from his feet. Frangipanni snorted,
tossing his head, and life called to him, beckoning
him onward. He reared far out of the waves, and
his call rang above them and was lost on their breasts
for ever. Frangipanni settled back into their icy
embrace and began to swim strongly towards the hills
and the morning.
Brief Drama
Below Surface
BY ANDREW
STEWARI
DRAWINGS BY DELANEY.
IT was not the oppressive heat that caused Pangham
to burst into a sweat, but the thought of how
completely Carswell had him at his mercy when
he was working below. A tangled line, a fault in
the pump, a premature explosion of the charge could
appear so much like an accident.
Carswell brought the helmet and said “What the
hell’s wrong with you, Pangham? Everything’s been
dead sweet so far, ain’t it?”
Pangham glanced out at the hazy outline of the
mainland, then back at the island with its stacked
cases of oil.
“Yes, so far,” Pangham agreed. “But why not
let the rest of the stuff rip? Five thousand cases is
pretty good. Barely a couple of thousand left, stowed
away for’ard and covered with wreckage.”
Carswell frowned. “An’ why not have -the lot?
A few sticks o’ dynamite will bust that hulk apart.”
“Not so easy,” Pangham said. “I’m doing the
diving, and I know.”
Carswell’s tone was sneering. “If you hadn’t
done so well up till now I’d say you were getting
windy, Pangham.”
“Then why don’t you have a shot at it yourself?”
Pangham snarled.
Carswell unscrewed the wing-nuts of the helmet.
“I would, too, if I knew the first thing about it. But
that's apart from the bargain ; I put up the cash an’
the outfit, you’re supposed to do the divin’.”
Though Pangham had never liked Carswell he
hadn’t distrusted him until lately. But while the
stuff was below surface there was no reason for
doubting him. With most of the oil salvaged it was
different. That stuff represented a lot of money, but,
divided, it meant only half that amount. He’d heard
of other schemes in which Carswell had been con-
cerned.
Pangham laughed suddenly. He was a fool for
getting himself into that way of thinking. Carswell
might be bad, but he wasn’t that bad. But it was
dead easy for a man to worry about trifles. It was
so dark and lonely down there in the hold of the
sunken ship, and he was so completely in the hands
of the man on top.
‘Run off some o’ that wire, Honi,” Carswell said.
“Then fix the cap an’ the gelly. Don’t connect the
battery till Pangham comes up again.”
Pangham began to sweat again. That final
instruction was unnecessary. Was Carswell merely
trying to make things look right? He glanced down
at the dim outline of the wreck while Carswell
adjusted the helm. The water in the lee of the Te
Araroa rock was as flat as glass. The heat was
unnatural, menacing ; it seemed to hang like a choking
blanket.
“Try to set that charge so’s she'll bust as few
cases as possible,” Carswell said. “We’ll let her go
as soon as you come up. .. Hell! this heat’d choke
a man.”
Pangham started inside the suit. Why was Cars-
well so anxious to stress that point—“let her go as
soon as you come up”?
Carswell had the face-glass on. Pangham stood
for a moment, reluctant to go. Then he clambered
overside while the two Maoris bent to the pump.
Carswell could scarcely fire the charge with Honi
and Jimmy looking on, Pangham comforted himself
as he went down the ladder. Similarly, he couldn’t
interfere with anything else without the Maoris
noticing it.
THE water closed over Pangham and he slid slowly
* down through the green twilight. Carswell had
spent most of the morning going over the diving gear.
Supposing he had
Pangham cursed himself wordlessly for thinking
about that again. He’d been a fool to trust himself
with Carswell, but it looked like a good thing. It
was a good thing, as it turned out—the salvaging of
the oil a much less difficult job than it first appeared.
The waving green weed of the sea-floor reached
up at Pangham. Then his boots touched bottom.
Dragging his lines behind him, he made
for the wreck and commenced operations.
The work of collecting the cases and
sending them up had been easy, for he was
working at no great depth. A man could
swim down the distance. Carswell had, in
fact, made the first brief
survey of the wreck in that
manner before putting up the
proposition.
The ten plugs of gelig-
nite set to his satisfaction,
Pangham moved away from
under the curve of the ves-
sel’s bows. It was in that backward movement
that Pangham first experienced a queer sensation. He
felt it again a few seconds later ; something he couldn’t
account for—a strange sort of light-headedness.
He glanced up at the plume of bubbles that
roared from the headpiece and adjusted the valve a
trifle. Then he reached for his lifeline to tug out the
signal that he was coming up.
His hand stopped as he saw a large beam, queerly
undetached, come floating down to him from the
deck. Pangham moved as fast as the cumbersome
suit would allow. Unless he was out of it in double-
quick time that plank would foul his lines. But
what had caused the beam to slide, unless there was
someone on the deck to push it over?
Then, without warning, the sea-bed seemed to
leap beneath Pangham’s feet. The wreck shuddered,
rocked, and rolled to her beam. Something like a
white-hot band of steel closed round Pangham’s fore-
head.
He yelled in a frenzy of fear. His voice mocked
him within the helmet. He groped blindly for the
lifeline, but his clutching hands found nothing. Pang-
ham realised it now, while Death was roaring in his
ears. Carswell had fired the charge.
’T' -TE next thing of which Pangham was conscious
was the glare of the sun in his eyes ; Jimmy and
Honi working over him ; Carswell, with heaving
chest, sprawled on the deck.
“Bet they got something on the mainland,” Cars-
well said. “The whole coastline was dancing. When
the ’quake came an’ we couldn’t get you up . . . thought
you were a goner.”
“How?” Pangham stuttered.
Carswell borrowed the makings from Jimmy. “I
went down —followed the air-tube. There was a plank
across your lines.”
“Then why don’t you have a shot at it yourself?” Pangham snarled.


Skinny Hazlitt and a Medium
THE HIGHER
THINGS IN
LIFE
A.C. HEADLEY
ILLUSTRATED
BY LOCK.
SKINNY looked at me disconso-
lately.
“This sideshow business,” he
said, “is all washed up. The
yokels get the facts of life now at a
nominal cost, plus entertainment tax,
from the local picture-show. Do they
want to see the remains of King
Tut.’s favorite wife when they can see
George Arliss and a supporting feature?”
“After which preamble?” said I.
“The answer is,” said Skinny, “tone
and the higher things in life. In other
words, Scut, you’re going to become a
medium.”
“A what?” said I.
“Sometimes,'’ said Skinny, squeez-
ing his mouth up tight, “I think it’s useless to try and
explain the higher things in life to you. You’re a
septic. That’s what Madame Zacosta would call you ”
“All right,” I said. “And who is this Madame
Zacosta?”
“She’s a medium.”
“Medium what,” said I—“looks, figure or
weight?”
Skinny spat through the open window.
“Sometimes,” he said, “it’s a puzzle to me what
you do when you sit down to read a paper. A
medium is someone who is in rapid with the spirit
world.”
“Ah,” said I, “she drinks.”
Another bunch of pained expressions clawed
their way across Skinny’s face. “By the spirit world,”
he said, “I mean the spirits of departed souls. Madame
Zacosta can establish communication with them. She
can talk to Napoleon if she wants to.”
“A spiritualist,” said I, waking up to what he
was talking about. “Yeah, I read about em in
the papers. They send letters to the police to tell
them where the body is buried, and the police take
no notice, or write back to say it wasn t murder, it
was forgery.”
For the fifteenth time in half an hour Skinny
wrapped himself up in an icicle.
“This,” he said solemnly, “is different. She told
me things. She said it came to her very clear that
I’ve got to beware.”
“You didn’t need a medium to tell you that,”
said I —“not while there’s an active police force, any-
way.”
Skinny’s eyes wriggled up to the top of his eye-
lids, and he took a breath that reminded me of my
Uncle Dudley’s asthma.
“She’s a wonderful woman, Scut,” he said. “She
understands me. She must be coining a mint, too.
She gets a guinea a seance. Someone’s always com-
ing to her for a spirit message from the ones who
have gorn over. That’s why you’ve got to be a
medium. It’s easy. All you’ve got to do is give
three raps for yes and one for no, and as many as you
like if you can’t think of the answers. It’s a snack.”
“Yeah,” said I. “I suppose we just tack a notice
on the door and hire a cop to control the traffic.”
“There ain’t no need,” Skinny voiced trium-
phantly.- “I got a customer. I met her at Madame
Zacosta’s. She wants to get in touch with the spirit
of her husband, who went to sea and didn’t come
back. I been talkin’ to her, Scut, and I know more
about the dear departed than she does herself. I
don’t think she’s too satisfied with Madame Zacosta,
so if someone was to mention your name as a
medium”
“That’s all right,” said I, “but this seance busi-
ness at a guinea a time. Something seems to tell
me that the same customer won’t want a seance every
ten minutes I don’t see a fortune in it.”
“Listen,” said Skinny, “if she’s satisfied, won’t she
tell her friends? That’s how all the big city firms
build their business —by satisfied customers. And
it don’t take too many guineas to fill the coffers.
You leave it to me. I’ve got everything worked out.”
I left it to him, and we sat down to a nice long
chat about the life and habits of the late Mr. Tilley.
I found out all about the food he used to eat, and
that he used to play a violin and swear like a trooper.
Skinny said to remember that, because it might make
the seances a bit more realistic.
“And now,” said Skinny, when he’d finished the
patter, “all I’ve got to do is find someone to intro-
duce you as a medium. Palmy McKinnon ought to
do it for a quid.”
“Why don’t you do it yourself,” said I, “instead
of throwing your money around?”
Skinny looked at me pityingly.
“Because,” he explained, “even though she might
be solid bone between the ears she might start makin’
two and two into four when you start tellin’ her things
that she’s told me. Palmy can do any introducin’
that’s to be done.”
I left it at that.
THE next day Skinny and I fixed up the bed-sitting-
room. There was black velvet to go around the
walls and a goldfish bowl that we were going to use
as a crystal. That and an old dressing-gown consti-
tuted the stock-in-trade.
About half-past eight that night Palmy McKin-
non turned up with the victim. When I first saw her
it struck me that Skinny had ne’glected one thing in
his preparations. He should have had the room
enlarged. She was one of those women who, when
they go to the pictures, sit on their own seats and
on the laps of the two nearest neighbors.
Palmy said: “This is the lady who would like
to get in touch with the spirits.”
“It is well,” said I two tones lower than the
river staying away from Paul Robeson’s door. “It
is well.” And then I closed my eyes.
I heard Palmy say: “That’s where you sit, Mrs.
Tilley.” And the next moment I heard the chair take
the strain. I opened my eyes. There she was, across
the table, looking at me as if I ought to have been
in a cage. The seance was on.
“You wish,” said I, “to get in touch with the
spirit of your husband.”
She gave a little jump.
“Isn’t it marvellous?” she said, turning to Palmy.
“He knew.”
I took no notice of the interruption. “The name
your husband used in his earthly existence was Robert
Joseph Tilley. You wish to be placed in communi-
cation with him.”
She nearly nodded her head off.
“I want to know if he’s dead,” she said in a
series of hearty breaths. “He went to sea and he
never came back. I’d like to know on account of I
might want to get married.”
“Your husband,” said I in a hollow voice, “has
passed over.”
“Could I get in touch with him?” said Mrs.
Tilley. “I’ve got a few things I’d like to ask him.”
“I will try to establish communication,” said I.
And at that moment Skinny, in the next room,
switched off the lights so that all that showed was
the goldfish bowl lit up by a torch. Then I fell back
in the way that Skinny said was a trance, and after
a spell I started on the business.
“Robert Joseph Tilley,” I said, “are you there?
You will rap three times to signify yes.”
Skinny in the next room gave three knocks on
the wall.
“Marvellous!” said Mrs. Tilley. “Ask him if
he remembers me.”
I gave the question and Skinny gave three raps.
“Ask him,” said Mrs. Tilley, “what he did with
my pearl necklace.”
This time a silence followed the question.
“Robert Joseph Tilley,” said I, “are you there?”
No answer came, so I decided that it was time to
snap out of the trance.
“The communication has been broken,” said I.
“There must be a disbeliever present,” and I looked
at Palmy.
“Marvellous!” said Mrs. Tilley, and without me
asking she shoved the guinea into my hand. “I’d
like to come again to-morrow.”
“I shall endeavor to establish communication,”
said I.
When she and Palmy had vanished Skinny came
out of hiding.
“What did I tell you?” he asked.
“I can’t see us making a fortune at it,” said I,
holding out the guinea. “Besides, what are we going
to do about the necklace?”
Skinny grinned. “We ain’t doing nothing. In
future the late Mr. Tilley will do all the talking. I’ll
fix up a megaphone behind one of the pictures. You’ll
just go into a trance and ask the questions. You can
leave me to dodge the necklace.”
FOR the next couple of nights things went perfectly.
Skinny through the megaphone told her things
about Mr. Tilley’s life that he ought to have been
ashamed of. Mrs. Tilley didn’t get a chance to as
much as mention the pearl necklace. Every night she
handed over the guinea, but I could feel that she was
getting impatient.
Skinny and I discussed the matter, and so, after
we’d collected the fourth guinea, Skinny spent a
long time standing outside the hotel where she was
staying so that he could meet her accidentally. He
told me about it afterwards.
She was glad to see him.
She remembered him from
Madame Zacosta’s, and soon
they were talking about the
spirits. She told Skinny about
me.
“Him!” yelped Skinny as
soon as she mentioned my pro-
fessional name. “He’s a fraud
and a fake.”
“He can’t be,” said Mrs.
Tilley ; “he told me all about
me husband.”
“It’s his detective force,”
said Skinny. “It’s easy for him
to find out about your husband.
You ask him some deep secret
and see how he gets on.” He
paused. “What did Mr. Tilley
give you for your first wedding
anniversary?”
She told him.
“All right,” said Skinny, ‘Til come along with
you and we’ll ask him that and see how he gets on.”
I was all oiled up ready for them when they
came, so when she asked me what her husband had
given her for her wedding anniversary I had the
answer pat.
“Nothing,” I said.
“Marvellous!” said the widow.
“I was wrong,” said Skinny.
It wasn’t five minutes after they had gone that
complications began to set in. There was a knock
on the door, and who should it be but Palmy
McKinnon.
“Listen, Scut,” he said, “I found her husband.
I found Robert Joseph Tilley.”
“You can’t,” I said, not quite clear yet of being
a spirit; “he’s passed over.”
“Passed over me eye,” said Palmy. “I’ve seen
him.”
“You wouldn’t know him if you did see him,”
said I.
“Yeah,” said Palmy, “that woman’s fallen for
me, that’s all. I’m the reason she wants to know if
her husband’s dead. You don’t suppose I ain t seen
his photographs.”
“In that case,” said I, “it looks as though the
spirit business is through paying dividends.”
Palmy looked at me.
“What it means,” he said, “is that you can find
out where the pearl necklace is. She told me she’d
give a hundred pounds reward. This Bob Tilley
says the necklace is very valuable, and he couldn’t
think of telling a stranger where it was hid for less
than fifty quid. He says it’s in the house, but he
won’t say where.”
“And what’s it to you?” I said.
Palmy grinned. “A fiver to tell you where he
lives. That’s generous; it leaves you with profit of
about forty quid when you get the reward, and think
of the advertisement for your business.”
“I got to see Skinny,” said I.
When I’d seen Skinny he grinned all over his
face and clapped me over the back. “It’s true,” he
said ; “she told me about the hundred-quid reward.”
We gave Palmy his fiver, and the next morning
we trotted along to see Mr. Tilley. He was a thin runt
of a feller, with flabby eyes and a perpetual sniff.
“Did you bring the fifty?” he said, after Skinny
had explained our mission.
Skinny patted his inside pocket.
“Put it in me ’and,” said Tilley.
Skinny did the act, and the next moment it had
vanished into some mysterious place in Mr. Tilley’s
trousers.
“Oh,” said Mr. Tilley, “the necklace! It’s, in a
secret hole in the back of the clock.”
“It had better be,” said Skinny, “unless you want
your wife to find out that you’re still alive and where
you live.”
Mr. Tilley started.
“You wouldn’t do that,” he said. “I couldn’
stand it. S’elp me, it’s true. I ain’t never told a
lie in me life. To prove it, one of you can stay here
till you find out it’s true.”
“I got a better idea,” said Skinny. “You can
come along and be your own spirit.”
WELL, after a lot of argument, that was fixed.
And as we’d oiled Palmy up to keep the matter
of the reward in the headlines, all we had to do was
wait for the seance.
Palmy did his work well. The first thing he
said when he arrived with Mrs. Tilley was: “Mrs.
Tilley will give you one hundred pounds if you can
get her husband’s spirit to tell you where the neck-
lace is.”
“That’s right,” said Mrs. Tilley.
That settled it. I went into a trance, the lights
went off, and pretty soon I was in communication
with the spirits.
“There is a question I wish to put,” said I. “It
is a question about a necklace. It is a pearl necklace.
It has disappeared. I would like to know where
it is.”
Mr. Tilley’s voice came through the megaphone.
“I see a necklace,” it said. “I see a clock. I
see a secret cavity at the back of this clock.” And
with that the lights went up, and I saw the “widow
sitting very still.
“It’s his voice,” she said, “and he was always
playing with that clock.” And with that she grabbed


Palmy and headed for the door. “You will be
rewarded,” she yelped, and then she was gone. She
even forgot the guinea for the seance.
Skinny and Mr. Tilley came out from the back
room. Skinny was all excited.
“Didn’ you hear what she said about him playin’
with the clock?” he yelped. “It must be true.”
“It is true.” said Mr. Tilley. “How long have I
got to stay here?”
“Till Palmy comes back,” said 1.
In about an hour there was a knock on the door.
It was Palmy. He tumbled into the room.
“It was there,” he said. “She found it. She’s
bringing the hundred quid in the morning.”
We let Mr. Tilley go.
But Mrs. Tilley didn’t come in the morning. She
didn’t come in the afternoon. She didn’t come at all.
“Why don’t you see Palmy?” I said after Skinny
had worn most of the nap off the carpet. “He might
know something about it.”
when we reached Palmy’s mansion the land-
lady was there to tell us that he’d vacated the premises
on the previous evening. There was a worried frown
on Skinny’s dial when the landlady slammed the door
on him.
“Something,” he said, “seems to tell me that
Palmy ain’t to be trusted.”
“The same thing told me that a long time ago,”
said I. “Don’t you think it might be a good idea if
one of us went to see the ‘widow’?”
But the “widow,” too, had vanished. It seemed
as though there was a bit of spiritualism between her
and Palmy, because she, too, had quit her rooms the
night before.
“Tilley,” yelled Skinny suddenly, “and the fifty
quid! We might get some of it back.”
“Might,” said I.
But there seemed to be an epidemic of dis-
appearances. Tilley’s room was deserted.
I’ve never seen Skinny look so bad. We came
back to our rooms, and the first thing Skinny did
was kick the goldfish bowl off the table.
“Never,” he said bitterly, “trust widders.”
But it wasn’t until the next morning that Skinny
really started on bad language. We heard the post-
man’s whistle, and the next moment a letter was
shoved under our door. It was addressed to me.
“It might be the reward!” yelped Skinny, trying
to control himself.
“It might,” said I.
But it wasn’t. Inside the envelope was a small
booklet. Skinny read out its title: “Spiritualism for
Beginners,” and scrawled across its cover was: “With
the compliments of Mr. and Mrs. Tilley and —Palmy
McKinnon.”
“Isn’t it marvellous?” she said to Palmy. “He knew.”
LOST
by Joan Davidson
EMMY LUKIN glanced at the clock, astonished
—ten past four. “Goodness, time does fly! ”
She eyed with satisfaction the heap of crisp
and golden biscuits, the orderly row of little
cakes, chocolate-topped, and smiled proudly at the
snowy birthday cake with three scarlet candles and
“David” written shakily in hundreds-and-thousands.
Reluctantly she shut it away in the tall cupboard
beside the stove and went through the darkening
rooms to the front verandah.
The sun was hidden behind the mountains, the
bush surrounding the clearing drooping sullenly. A
decapitated toy soldier lay on the bottom step. The
old sofa held only tumbled clothes. Emmy frowned.
“Davie!”
Two quarrelsome parakeets flashed by. The
frown grew deeper and her voice sharper. “David!”
The echo flung back her cry mockingly. Down
the path to the road she ran calling, listening, calling.
Only birds and the echo answered. Stampeded
by fear, she rushed wildly round the small farm
searching—calling all the while through a throat
squeezed tight by fear ; back to the empty verandah,
where she sat unconscious of the smell of burnt bread
coming from the kitchen.
The still, godlike indifference of the bush terri-
fied her. The tall trees beyond the road moved in
closer. The bush was alive, a great dark god.
“No, no, not my baby! ” Her scream broke the
silence, and then she was running instinctively towards
their nearest neighbors.
'"F HERE was no doubt in her mind as she stumbled
. along the unmade road, furrowed deeply by
wheels and the plodding feet of horses, of the Nilsons’
willingness to help. Progress was difficult. The
physical effort required to cover the three miles dulled
the torment of thought. She kept to the road some-
how, stepping into ruts and muddy patches, strug-
gling breathlessly up the hills and at each summit
peering eagerly for a light in the valley. Quite sud-
denly it appeared, like an earth-bound star twinkling
in the darkness.
The Nilsons were at dinner when the noisy bark-
ing of the dogs sent Pa Nilson to the door to curse
them into silence.
“Lie down, you” he’d com-
menced, when Emmy Lukin stumbled
into the light from the doorway.
“Why, it’s Mrs. Lukin!”
“Oh, please,” she sobbed, “my
David’s lost, and Tom’s away”...
Mrs. Nilson was large and cap-
able. She neither pitied Emmy nor
made light of the situation, but with
calm assurance planned to relieve it.
Her practicability had no sharp
edges to scratch those it benefited.
“Pa will take the car and collect as
many as he can. Neil, you ride the
mare to Branch Creek; Mr. Emery’ll
probably drive you back in his car.
Tell each to bring his own lantern.”
So smoothly she arranged things
that before the strain of sitting in-
active had become unbearable
Emmy found herself in the buggy
on the way home.
“Gracious me!” Mrs. Nilson
exclaimed when the pony slithered
through a muddy stretch, “I don’t
know how you found your way at
all without a lantern.”
“Oh, Mrs. Nilson, why didn’t
I think to leave a light in the house
—he might have come back, and
he’ll be frightened”
“Why, yes, he might be there.”
But the ready response lacked con-
viction.
\ \ I ITHOUT hesitation the search
“ * was begun. In groups and
singly they came: the Fosseys, the
Zimmers, the Smiths, Miss Martin,
the new schoolmistress, the Orwins
and the McDermotts of Toad Flat,
old Grandmother Deed, who never
missed a wedding, a birth or a
burial, the Browns and the Murphys,
Dumb Barty, a wonder with horses,
the Greys, the Bolensons from the
Bridge. A crowd from Branch
Creek clustered like bees about Cliff
Emery’s delivery wagon.
The womenfolk drifted to the
house to offer what comfort they
could to the distracted Emmy. At
the sight of Emmy, tear-stained and shivering, they
mostly grew awkwardly silent. They’d milk your
cows, sit up for nights if you were ill, do your wash-
ing and baking, lend you any mortal thing they pos-
sessed, but words were beyond them.
Mrs. Nilson knew how to combat the tension. “A
good hot cup of tea will do everybody a world of
good. And the cow would be feeling easier milked.”
“I’ll milk it gladly,” volunteered Bridget Murphy.
“That’s right. And if my Neil’s about send him
along in.”
With a sense of relief Bridget went to the familiar
task. The rest looked expectantly at Mrs. Nilson,
who responded quickly. “We’ll have to serve the tea
in relays because there won’t be enough cups to go
round. So if some of you’d attend to that”
The women set to readily. They talked softly
among themselves.
Emmy, huddled in a chair, was oblivious of the
coming and going. “He’s so little, so little,” she
whimpered softly, feeling in herself his smallness,
his terror qf the silent blackness.
Young Neil came bashfully to the door. “Want
me, mum?”
“Did you telephone to the township?”
“Yes. Mr. Thompson reckoned we hadn’t a hope
to-night, an’ said if he doesn’t hear he’ll gel along
with the town lot as soon as it’s light.”
From the hub of the house human spokes radi-
ated into the bush. Lanterns, pools of wavering light,
invaded the blackness, grotesque shadows slinking
beside like sullen captives. Scrub and fallen trees
barred the way with seeming hostility.
It seemed impossible a child of three could have
travelled over such rough ground. Even the most
experienced were losing their bearings in the dark.
The sensible thing to do was to wait for daylight
Regretfully they straggled back to the farm.
Tired and cold, they set out for home, all except
Grandma Deed, Mrs. Nilson and Lena Martin, who
stayed with Emmy. A couple of hours’ rest, then the
cows to feed and milk.
Emmy lay in a stupor induced by exhaustion and
the large dose of aspirin Grandma Deed had admin-
istered in warm milk.
Lena Martin, dirty and dishevelled, a long, angry-
looking scratch scored down one cheek, gazed at
Emmy with compassion. “I’m glad she’s like that:
it must be hell for her.” She moved restlessly. “It’s
awful just sitting doing nothing, waiting for the light.”
Mrs. Nilson spoke with authority. “There’s
nothing we can do. You lie down and try to get
some rest. You’ll be no use at all if you don’t. P’raps
a cup of hot milk”
“Ugh, no! I hate the stuff.” Struck by a sudden
thought, “Where’s Mr. Lukin?”
“He’s in town ; went down with Charlie Ketch
this morning. He’ll be back to-morrow.”
FA AWN brought the Nilsons, father and son, and
shortly after fresh help from the township.
Though a keen wind tore at the sullen sky, though
bleakly cold, day was a friend. Lena found it so, and
Mrs. Nilson, even hollow-eyed Emmy, felt the black
pall of despair grow paler with the light. She real-
ised the significance of the array of motors, carts and
tethered horses. How good people were ...
An air of confidence distinguished the newcomers ;
they forged ahead looking about them eagerly. Gradu-
ally their pace slackened to a dogged crawl; down
into the gullies, skirting uprooted giants, along
timbered ridges.
Confidence vanished. Even though the child had
penetrated this wilderness which tripped and tired
strong men, could he have survived the long, cold
night hours, the blind blundering of panic? Ears, once
alert for the sound of a childish voice, strained only
to catch the call which would announce the discovery,
would end uncertainty.
Early in the afternoon unmistakably exultant
it welled out of the east, sounding again and again
as the glad news travelled from throat to throat. Feet,
strangely lightened, turned back eagerly. By the time
definite verbal assurance reached his mother, David,
unconscious cause of so much anxiety and worry, was
riding a stalwart shoulder home.
“Long” Brown and his brother Alex, had found
him on an open heath land more than a mile and a
half from home: a forlorn, wee figure, tired, scratched
and dirty, but quite sound. He could tell nothing of
his movements, but, judging by the dried mud coating
his legs and daubing his small person, he’d followed
the road most of the way. His tear-streaked face held
no sign of strain ; perhaps imagination was too tight
a bud to trouble him. They’d take him home to
Mummie. He nodded carelessly, and then with real
concern piped, “I haven’t had no dinner yet.


peace, and implies it on every other page. Perhaps
he feels he can help to direct the battle.
His thesis is not the old advice “Don’t worry,”
which is useless, because life can find means to make
a Socrates or a Carlyle worry like a teething infant.
Mr. Seabury would have people worry constructively,
not futilely, and particularly would he have them
exercise foresight so that causes of worry are avoided.
“The first principle of good worry,” he says, “is
action,” and expands that at length. Tolstoy put it
into seven words: “Doubt can only be resolved by
action.” But Seabury adds a thought to that grand
generalisation, and it is an encouraging one. “He
whose heart is in what he does accomplishes a poor
choice more nobly than the wisest hypocrite fulfils
the shrewdest decision.” But isn’t that just an echo
of old lago’s advice “to thine own self be true”?
Mr. Seabury is sensible, and it may be, to the
sort of people who need mental crutches, helpful, so
long as he sticks to broad generalities. But when he
gets down to copper tacks (which is something a psy-
chologist shouldn’t risk) he’s not very impressive. One
of his acquaintances had a wife who would read in
bed till two in the morning. It was a habit formed
in imitation of her mother. Seabury advised the
husband, who was losing hours of sleep, to tie one
of his wife’s black silk stockings over his eyes and
stuff his ears with cotton-wool so he wouldn’t see the
light nor hear the rustling pages. This, he declared,
would end the habit in three weeks. Asa matter
of fact, declares Mr. Seabury with glee, it didn’t take
that long. The very first night the stocking-and-cotton-
wool recipe was tried the wife, after five’ minutes of
puzzlement, put down her book, put out the light and
went to sleep. Magnificent. But she might have
conked her husband over the head with the clock,
gone home to mother or have carried on regardless.
There’s such a lot of sorts of women.
Another tip of Mr. Seabury’s that has as many
holes in it as a colander is that in a worry some
dilemma one should pretend to debate the matter
with the “seers of all the ages.” This commentator
once put into operation the same idea (derived from
Goethe) and discussed a matter with Thomas Carlyle.
The old cantrip snorted and cocked a thumb at his
works, especially the line “Take what thou wantest,
O discontented man, and pay the price.” Which might
have landed his disciple in gaol.
No. The best antidote to useless worrying is the
reflection attributed to a nameless old lady who said
that the worst troubles she had worried about had
never happened. In Leslie Stephen’s phrase that’s
“the religion of all sensible men” on the subject.
"Legend for Sanderson."
When the Australian novel was still something
of a rara avis —and an ugly duckling at that —Vance
Palmer was giving pictures of the bush, of station
life, the drover’s road, the coast, as unself-conscious
as they were true. He held a steady light for us to
see ourselves by, even when nobody seemed anxious
to look, in the depressed days of Australian literature
between the fading out of the robust national school
of the ’nineties, led by Henry Lawson and sponsored
by The Bulletin, and the renaissance that followed
on the heels of Henry Handel Richardson’s Ultima
Thule.
Palmer was one of the faithful ones who always
gave his best work to the literature of his own coun-
try instead of competing for the much larger plums
overseas, as the fashion was, and, to some extent, is
still. For 20 years, steadily, quietly, with infinite care
and ever-increasing skill, he has been setting Aus-
tralian rhythms on record.
Looking back along his eight novels and three
volumes of short stories, it is impressive to note how
much of this he has transcribed. He has not only
told stories, but he has done something more im-
portant —more important, that is, for a people finding
its feet in literature —he has caught the flavor of
Australian life, its habit of mind, its texture. He
has given us back not only an accurate picture of
the Australian scene but its light and quality as well.
Palmer’s earlier novels give a certain lip service to
romantic convention, but as his art matured he
depended less on plot, more on the natural patterns
of life.
Legend for Sanderson (Angus and Robertson;
6s.), which recently ran through The Bulletin as a
serial, is full and rich with these patterns. It is more
varied and more positive in its coloring than any of
its predecessors. The North Queensland port in the
cyclone belt, the strong ebb and flow of the seasons,
the equally strong and obvious alternation of beauty
and squalor, the mixed population, give greater exer-
cise to Palmer’s art and allow him a deeply embedded
comment on man and environment. Perhaps one of
the subtlest methods of measuring man is to set him
against nature’s luxuriance.
Palmer has made a subtle book out of forthright
material. He seeks the secret of life always in the
commonplaces. No character is extraordinary, none
acts as the author’s sounding-board. They are all
entirely credible people from the middle register.
Their lives develop naturally from their characters
and circumstances. Objective violence is not invoked.
So for all the rich fluency of its setting Legend for
Sanderson is a quiet book. It is very steady in its
quietness, as are all its author’s novels.
Perhaps too much insistence has been placed here
on Legend for Sanderson as one of a procession of
books from the same men. The work of Vance
Palmer has been cumulative in its influence, but that
does not rob each volume of its individuality. Sharply
and clearly they strike different notes. Their diver-
sity is like the diversity of the Australian scene, which,
above all, and with much beauty and sensitive under-
standing, they depict.
Too Many Ingredients.
Trygve Gulbranssen’s first novel, Beyond Sing
the Woods, was very well received in Norway and
America. Now comes his second book, The Wind
from the Mountain (Thornton Butterworth; Moore’s
Bookshop ; 7s. 6d.). The second book is always a
grievous test on any writer, and in this Gulbranssen
has at least given us good measure—too good.
It is a story of life on a big Norwegian estate
over a hundred years ago; at the time of the
Napoleonic wars, whose faint echoes blow through
the book. Beautiful Adelaide Barre marries Dag,
the energetic young son and heir of a wealthy land-
owner. He lives in the woods and nurses an inarti-
culate jealousy against his father, Old Dag, who domi-
nates everybody, even the young daughter-in-law.
The story, which covers many years, traces the
development of the old man from a hard-headed and
close-fisted man of business into the father —you
might almost say the patron saint —of the country-
side, and of Adelaide’s search for her husband
through physical dangers and spiritual adventures.
She suffers, in the way of Scandinavian heroines,
many terrible afflictions, including the death of her
children, and she wins the love and trust of her hus-
band only just in time for him to lose his life in a
heroic attempt to save a neighbor’s child from a
flood.
This brief outline of the plot gives very little
idea of the scope of the novel. In its 380 pages there
is enough subject matter for ten novels: the stories
of the wicked Mistress Elizabeth of Borgland, of
Tuv and his strange dog, of Jomfru Kruse and her
late unhappy love, of Pastor Ramer and many other
stories could stand alone. But as they are presented,
foreshortened and stunted, none can grow to full
stature. Instead of embellishing the book, they give
it the appearance of a literary junk shop.
As the novel is choked with matter, so also is
it crammed with points of view. It tries to be all
things to all readers and to give in the measure of
one volume all those particular qualities that have
made Scandinavian novels famous. It is a story of
the earth and man’s struggle to win bread from it
in the style of Hamsun in Growth of the Soil; it is
informed with the religious mysticism that is at the
heart of Bojer’s writing ; it has in places the fairy-
tale* quality of Selma Lagerlof’s story of Gosta
Berling, or of that macabre unreality that haunts the
same author’s Ring of Lowenskolds. All these quali-
ties are grafted upon a story of large-scale tragedy
that is dimly in the manner of Sigrid Undset.
Yet it is a thin and unconvincing book. Its
numerous elements do not supplement one another ;
they cancel out. It is encumbered with many dead-
end incidents, and its characterisation is not strong
enough to save it from itself. Adelaide is an unsym-
pathetic heroine. The mystery of Dag is never satis-
factorily cleared up, although it is attempted along
modern psychological lines. Old Dag, on whom the
author has lavished most of his care, is too Protean
to be convincing. The lesser characters are too con-
ventional. The characters and the incidents are so
ill assorted that they blight one another. It is impos-
sible, for instance, to believe both in Aunt Eleonore
and Elizabeth von Gall, in Old Dag’s business trans-
actions and in the Death Fell. The natural reaction
is to feel sceptical about both or all. The book lacks
that unity of conception which can bind into a whole
even the most discursive novel.
Portrait of an Ancestor.
The Late George Apley, by John P. Marquand
(Robert Hale ; 7s. 6d.), which Americans are taking
very seriously just now, is sweet in the kernel but a
fairly tough nut to crack. There are two reasons for
this. Firstly, it is a portrait, not a story of action, and
what the author is about does not become clear until
the book is fairly well advanced; secondly, it has a
strictly local as well as a general application.
The book, through the delineation of Apley, who
may be regarded as typical of his generation and
circumstance, offers a clear picture of certain aspects
of American life and the ideas that dominated it
during the last 60 or 70 years. Apley was a wealthy
citizen of Boston. His people—and their friends
were owners of shipping and textile mills. Pride of
family, of decorous home and social life, conscien-
tiousness as custodians of great wealth, determination
to maintain the privileges of their class and belief in
Boston’s cultural domination of America were their
foundations.
The implications of these things form a rigid
design for living to which young George Apley, born
1866, is heir. There is a time during his Harvard
days when he looks like rejecting his heritage. He has
a very romantic and, up to a point, strictly honorable
affair with Mary Monahan, beautiful, agreeably
mannered but of plebeian extraction. Word of the
matter reaches home and pressure is brought to bear.
Apley capitulates and is thereafter a man shut
out from himself. He takes a wife approved by his
family, and his life is spent in exercising himself in
what he believes to be the responsibilities of a man
of his position. It is done with good cheer and there
is conviction behind it, though always at the core
there is his unrealised self. He never discovers this,
but it becomes apparent to the reader as the years
of this century advance, and later, and more fully,
in his somewhat yearning attitude toward his son
and daughter and the post-war generation generally.
The Mary Monahan motif is repeated twice in the
book, just before George’s death and, earner, just
before his father’s death. The old man says, Perhaps
we should have let George marry Mary.” The
remark is taken by the family as a sympton of impend-
ing collapse.
Apley’s contacts with men and women and his
attitude towards the affairs which engaged the atten-
tion of his generation give the book a wide sweep.
Images of life are evoked on the margin of the reader’s
consciousness beyond the actual confines of the story.
An age stands revealed through this portrait of one
man.
The quality of the book is understanding. There
is gentle satire at the expense of those who were
George Apley’s contemporaries, but there is also
appreciation. Their selfishness is uncovered, but their
generosity and strong sense of duty are also revealed.
The reverse as well as the obverse side of their quali-
ties is always presented. Humor is tempered with
tenderness.
The book is in the form of a biography. The
biographer is himself a fictional character, a device
that permits the author to remain well behind the
scenes and give, the story of George Apley’s life the
appearance of being told and commented upon by
one who knew him well and who identifies himself
with Apley’s outlook. The biography is undertaken
at the wish of Apley’s son, and material of a very
intimate character is drawn upon by the son’s wish,
which the biographer, with his overweening sense of
the proprieties, would have ignored. This, another
subtle device, gives the book the air of being com-
mented on by a man of the present generation who
is not ashamed of his father, but desires that he be
known for what he was —a human being.
The local application of the story is in showing
Boston still raking over the ashes of her lost literary
grandeur—Emerson, Howells, Hawthorne and others
—while America, escaped from her leading strings, is
establishing a fresh cultural tradition.
A book that in all probability will be regarded in
America as of permanent worth.
Milk and Honey.
Down the Proud Stream, by Carl Fallas (Heine-
mann ; 7s. 6d.), shows us a little world of simple
people living in what is surely one of the gentlest and
most idyllic corners of rural England. The extreme
placidity of the setting lies like a soft and heavy
hand upon the narrative. In the title the author refers
presumably to the stream of life and the three who
are carried upon it, going their inevitable ways; but
to the reader it is more like a thick rivulet of milk
and honey. The story sails very slowly upon it, with
many pauses to discuss bees, a cow’s pedigree, the
skill of a ratcatcher’s dog, asparagus culture and other
important subjects.
The story is of two boys who love, each after
his own fashion, Christina, the beekeeper’s daughter.
Because, at 16, she had refused to marry him, Edward
Penn became a monk and, when the excitement had
died down, regretted his step almost to the point of
madness. He haunts Christina’s imagination, but only
in an interesting and romantic manner. At last the
young monk, by a spiritual alchemy that is left to
our imagination, renounces earthly love and finds
mystical happiness.
The other boy, Rolf, stands for profane love. He
is 18 years old, a stranger summering in the village
for his health. A tender and innocent friendship
springs up between Rolf and Christina. She initiates
him —at great length—into rural mysteries and society.
Rolf, like Edward, finds a solution for the problems
of his life. It is in taking all sweet things naturally
as they come and not asking for more.
As for Christina, she is left happy and at peace
with great expectations for the future. Happy ending
for all.
The story is very innocent, but the author is a
little anxious that the reader should realise that he
knows better himself, and he is always there inviting
the reader to join with him in a little kindly mirth
over the dear simple creatures.
The decorations are bucolic and the minor char-
acters are almost too much in keeping: the sexton,
who is a “character” ; the postmistress and her ill-
fated devotion to the piano-tuner with whom she has
never exchanged a word the robust but romantic
carpenter who made robins drunk with cider and
dug in the churchyard for treasure at midnight; the
rector’s wife who was so tactful that when she took
a roast chicken to a poor parishioner she introduced
it: “I have an extra chicken here. One too many.
You see, I asked the gardener to kill one for lunch
and he has inadvertently killed two!” There are
many other casuals, minutely described, yet having
little or no part in the story proper. Among them
they swell the novel to what is, for its substance, an
inordinate length.
Reviewed Briefly,
FICTION . . .
Cup of Gold: John Steinbeck (Heinemann ; 7s.
6d.). An account of the life of Morgan, the bucca-
neer, told with the full use of novelist’s license. Not
at all in the vein of the same writer’s Tortilla Flat
and Of Mice and Men. He invests the old cut-throat
with a strain of idealism and a romantic heart, but
he covers in about ten pages the period from when
Morgan turned on his former followers until his
death.
Little Red Shoes: Dermot Chesson Spence (Wil-
liams and Norgate ; 7s. 6d.). A collection of creepy
stories in which it is no part of the writer’s intention
to make explanations. A typical one tells how,
through three generations, a queer little old man
always appeared to members of a certain family on
the eve of disaster, and how, on the same nights, an
inn sign which bore a likeness of him temporarily
disappeared from its bracket.


FOR THE VOYAGE OF YOOR DREAMS
Write for Huge 20-page Catalogue.
Write to Stromberg-Carlson (Australasia), Ltd., 124 Bourke
Road, Alexandria, Sydney, for huge 20-page Catalogue
illustrating the complete range of 1937 Stromberg-Carlson
Radio; it’s free and post free.
HAVE you, too, plans for a dream voyage? A
voyage to distant laftds full of interest, mystery,
and glamour. Realise your dream to-night, and every
night, with a Stromberg-Carlson world-wide receiver.
London —Paris —New York—Tokio—all bring you
their captivating romance at full loud-speaker strength
—clearly, distinctly and entertainingly.
The soft padding of the rickshaw boy’s feet seem to
echo through your room, and the gutteral intonations
of Central Europe—capture the thrill of your dream
voyage with a Stromberg-Carlson. Local stations,
overseas stations, hear them in your own home. Your
local dealer will be pleased to arrange a demon-
station of a Stromberg-Carlson, without obligation.
Remember, only Stromberg-Carlson has the patented
exclusive Acoustical Labyrinth, the only known
method of overcoming cabinet resonance or “boomi-
ness” in radio.
k
HEAR A STROMBERG-CARLSON IN YOUR OWN HOME
AUTHORISED DEALERS EVERYWHERE
ELECTRIC, BATTERY, A.C/D.C., AIRCELL and BATTERYLESS (Vibrator) OPERATED RADIOS.


ROYAL
PURPLE
PARA
'. 4
■
*
m
emm
wmStommte
I 1
-*» «*, «* - • ■
M M* '
r-
: I
4 r
0
m
:
■
H
■
■I
*>
■
g
m
11111111
&
HI
■
i
5 0
Excellent View of Interior of One of the Many Large Storage Cellars.
tfl ffb'lt C WffW cf IJl£ll€tl r Tl€4d {l/ftflJffiUCj/U&b


DINNER IS SERVED.
“Income-tax returns are due in Australia (‘penalty for neglect, not exceeding £100’). There are TWELVE income-taxes.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: National Mutual Buildings, 91
King William Street, Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Saywell Buildings, 115 Lambton
Quay, Wellington.
London: I Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London,
E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.')
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 15s. 6d.;
3 months, Bs.
Posted Free to any address Overseas (Foreign):
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 25.; 3
months, 11s.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji, New
Hebrides and other places within the British
Empire, 2d. per copy. United Kingdom via France
or America, 2d. per copy. To all other places, 4d.
THE EXTORTIONERS.
“There is a halt in public investment from outside
Australia,” said Dr. Page at the Melbourne confer-
ence of Country-party politicians. There is a halt in
private investment also, and there is a very decided
halt in immigration except of Southern Europeans.
Does the doctor ever halt long enough to explore the
reasons? They are to be found in the multitude of
taxes imposed by the seven Governments. Their income
taxes are not only oppressive but uncertain, being
obscured by the cloudy jargon in which taxation laws
are expressed, by the masses of regulations which seven
departments issue at their own sweet will, by arbitrary
assessments in the case of concerns trading in more
than one State, by delays in the preparation of
Budgets, which have never in the history of Federated
Australia been introduced in the same month, and
by doubts as to what this or that Treasurer will
choose to extort.
As a rule, the British businessman knows in the
first month of the financial year how much income
tax he will have to pay. The Australian businessman
never knows until the financial year is far advanced,
and he is never sure about the amount until all his
assessment papers arrive. The Briton has one return
to make, and it is comparatively simple. The Aus-
tralian who draws income from two States has to
prepare and post three complex returns. One goes to
an office in the State of which he is a resident, a second
to an office in the State from which part of the income
is drawn, and the third to the central Commonwealth
office, which is in Melbourne.
If a taxpayer has interests in six States, seven
returns will be required. If he has had sickness in
the family and claims medical expenses as deductions
from taxable income, separate stamped receipts may
be demanded, the alternative being refusal of the
claim.
In the preparation and examination of unneces-
sary returns, a vast amount of time is lost and un-
necessary expenditure incurred. Often a puzzled
taxpayer has to call in a taxation agent —generally a
former taxgatherer —and that means an addition to
the plague of taxes. As to that, the Commonwealth
taxes up to ss. 8.85 d. in the £ of personal earnings
and 6s. 9d. in the £ of property income. N. S. Wales
grabs as much as 4s. 3d. in the £. The Victorian
impost reaches Is. Bd. in the £, plus 1\ per cent., with
“additional tax” of 10 per cent, to 25 per cent, on
incomes exceeding £BOO. Maximum rates in other
States are 3s. 2.4 d. in the £ in Westralia, ss. in Queens-
land, plus 20 p.c. super-tax, ss. in Tasmania and ss.
Id. in South Australia.
The foregoing are “ordinary” taxes on incomes of
individuals. There are, in addition, in all the States
except South Australia, income taxes called “special,”
“financial emergency” or “unemployed-relief,” levied
on individuals and companies alike. They go to lOd.
in the £ in N. S. Wales, lid. in Queensland and Is.
in Westralia and Tasmania; Victoria charges 20s. 7d.
to 90s. 7d. per £lOO as income steps up. “Ordinary”
taxes on companies are Is. in the £ in the Common-
wealth, Is. 6d. to 2s. 3d. in N. S. Wales, Is. to Is.
10.575 d. in Victoria, Is. 9d. to 7s. 3d. in Queensland,
2s. in S.A., Is. 3d., plus 15 per cent., to 2s. 7d. in
W.A. and Is. 6d. in Tasmania.
Where taxpayers are on salary or wages, the
“special” taxes are deducted at the source of income.
The Commonwealth does not tax what is deducted,
nor does Victoria charge ordinary tax on it, but the
N. S. Wales Government does. This Government
also, by what is called a reciprocal arrangement with
Victoria, exacts “special” tax on income derived by
N. S. Wales residents from that State—at far more
than the Victorian unemployed-relief rates on income
of resident Victorians. The reciprocal arrangement
does not extend to mortgage interest, so a Victorian
drawing interest on a N. S. Wales mortgage has to
pay four taxes —two Victorian, one N. S. Wales and
one Commonwealth.
The Commonwealth and British Governments
have for years had an arrangement to prevent double
tax on people drawing income from one country or
the other. For example, Australians in receipt of
dividends from British mining companies operating in
Australia are taxed 3s. in the £, “being standard rate
of British income tax, 55., less relief in respect of
Dominion income tax, estimated at 25.” State Gov-
ernments refuse to recognise this very fair arrange-
ment, and also insist on taxing sojourners in the land
on their income from all sources, which means all
parts of the world, and adding 25 p.c. for exchange.
The result is that they get very few sojourners.
Including levies for hospitals in Westralia and
the Federal Capital Territory, Australia has fourteen
income taxes. While this chaos of imposts exists it
cannot hope to get much private capital or skilled
labor from Britain, greatly as it needs both ; nor will
veterans of the British Army, the Royal Navy and
the colonial services come to the country to be bled
white when the British Government leaves their
modest incomes alone. Neither will Australian
industry flourish as it should. With the return of
unemployment to normal, there is no warrant for
the continued infliction of the State taxes alleged to
be for unemployed-relief. The “ordinary” State taxes
have also had their day. One Commonwealth tax
would suffice for all legitimate expenditure now
charged up to income tax, including Government
schooling, of which the State Governments have made
an inglorious mess. A party or group or candidate
coming out for one income tax, with Common-
wealth control of education, would command the
enthusiastic support of people who have had enough
of filling in superfluous forms and of being taxed up
to the eyes, partly on what has already been extorted
by the First or Second Robber.
Thirty Years After.
This year marks the end of the first generation of
practical heavier-than-air flying. The first actual
flights were made by the American Wright brothers
on a machine designed in the light of Hargrave’s Aus-
tralian inventions. The European record in 1907 was
held by Henri Farman —311 yards. But early in
1908 Wilbur Wright, who had gone to Europe, flew
95 miles in two hours 20-odd minutes, and Farman
flew 150 miles in four hours 18 minutes.
In December, 1911, the first Australian flying
license was issued —to William Hart. In 1912 Aus-
tralians saw three machines aloft: one flier, who
attained the breathless speed of 40 miles an hour,
earned the sobriquet of “Wizard” Stone. Occasion-
ally a pilot daringly took up a passenger, who enjoyed
the sensation of passing through a demented whirl-
wind for as much as three-quarters of a mile at a
dizzy height of 200 or 300 feet. In 1913, all the
world’s altitude records were held by an Australian,
Harry Hawker—solo and with one, two and three
passengers: his limit was 12,900 feet with two pas-
sengers.
When the Great War broke out great strides had
been made. By 1915 Australia had formed the first
Dominion flying corps, and its pioneer members had
landed at Basra. Australia produced one of the first
of the war aces —Stan Dallas, a miner’s son from
Mt. Morgan, whose name is enshrined in every war
history. Another Australian (McNamara) won the
first V.C. awarded for air work in Palestine ; others
(Ross Smith among them) were T. E. Lawrence’s
favorite scouts; others again distinguished themselves
on the Western Front.
The war over, a great era of peaceful conquests
began. Australians were the first to fly from England
to Australia, from North America to Maoriland and
Australia, over the North Pole, across the South
Atlantic and —with an American—round the world.
Australians invented the slotted wing, designed
the fastest light machines of their day, established the
first passenger- and freight-carrying air services in
the Empire, and laid the organisation for the first air
service across the South Pacific.
This year, 30 years after the first flights of conse-
quence, the first Australian book of commercial time-
tables has been issued. Nobody with a vestige of
imagination can read it without the grateful feeling
that the pioneers have not lived in vain.
Ross Smith, Hawker, Hinkler, Dallas, Kingsford
Smith. Ulm, Melrose and Holden are dead in the
prime of their adventurous youth. But as justification
for their achievements, mostly compassed in the space
of 15 years, Australia to-day has the longest chain
of air routes possessed by any country in the world
except the U.S.A., which has 19 times Australia’s
population. Over 100 cities and towns and stations
now have regular air services, and in the first quarter
of 1937 3320 scheduled flights were made.
Thirty years ago, when the railway was opened
to Blackall. Central Queensland, and the first motor-
car had been brought to the town, Cobb and Co.
still plugged up the blacksoil plain from Charleville
with its horses and its bugles. Now Blackall is con-
nected with every part of Australia by air and even,
through a provincial service, with neighboring towns.
Normanton, on the Gulf of Carpentaria, Cooktown.
Cairns, outback stations such as Brunette (N.T.),
which were merely romantic names to pre-war city
Australia, have been brought within less than a day’s
journey of the southern capitals. North Queensland
to Melbourne is already a mere daylight trip, made
with less strain than a train journey of a couple of
hundred miles a decade or so ago. North Westralia
has but one small line of railway, but North and South
Westralia have for many years been connected by air.
The Imperial Airways flying-boats will usher in
another great era. Seventeen-tonners the first arrivals
will be, but before the 17-tonners were off the stocks
30-tonners were being laid down. It is recognised
that 200-tonners are already possible, and within 30
years a 200-tonner may be a small ship. And strato-
sphere flying is out of its experimental stage: before
many years are out passengers will be lifted 30,000
feet into the blue and borne to London and New
York in half the time the journey takes at present.
The next decade will see Australia so closely
knit in terms of transport that Townsville will be
as close to Melbourne as Brisbane is to-day, and Perth
will be a day’s run to any of the eastern capitals.
The political and social repercussions will be great—
they are bound to breed a deeper contempt for State
divisions and the parish-pump outlook.
But political Australia will have to prepare for
these changes. The Commonwealth needs an air
policy. Investors in air companies must have protec-
tion from the danger that their enterprises may be
throttled, as road transport has been throttled in parts.
There must be aeroplane factories, schools in which
the splendid material available may be trained, landing-
grounds which are something more than made-over
paddocks, and efficient maps by which to fly.
That WAS a War.
No doubt on both sides in Spain’s civil war there have
been heroic deeds. No doubt men have fought gal-
lantly according to their lights. No doubt there has
been drama of human relationships, estrangements,
passions as intense as any ever chronicled or imagined.
All that is implicit in the bitter word “war,” whatever
the war’s proportions. So, too, are physical suffering,
hardship, misery ; hunger and bestial living, filth and
degradation. These would be elements of a war
between the smallest States of the world.
It should not be hard to realise how bitter some
of the fighting in Spain would be. One side is fight-
ing, with the conviction of fanaticism, to uphold what
the jargon of its originators calls the “Communist
ideology.” The other side is fighting, with like' con-
viction, out of a racial pride—who prouder than a
Spaniard?—which asserts that a foreign cult of this
sort cannot lightly be grafted on a people who have
their own established culture, and that of a civilisation
built up over centuries.
That —despite the insistent misrepresentation of
the pink press from which most Australian cable-
“news” is drawn —is the real conflict in Spain. Natur-
ally—it could not humanly be otherwise —the side
which is fighting racially for Spain is winning. Once
more the Australian daily press, misled by its cable-
sources, has misled the Australian public, both as to
the nature of the conflict and the probable outcome
of the fighting. Belatedly, it is now beginning to see
which way the outcome is shaping ; but it is still —
in Sydney, at any rate —misrepresenting Spain’s war
in one other important particular—magnifying it out
of all proportion to actuality or historical comparison.
For, after all admissions are made, it has to be
said that Spain’s war has been at the worst merely light
skirmishing compared with a war that was a war.
By the cables it must have seemed to those with any
memory that Bilbao had been another Pozieres.
Photographs taken on the day it fell show it an un-
damaged town. This sort of gross exaggeration has
characterised the cabled reports throughout. When
the cables have not been up to the job, the headliners
have managed it. These headlines — six inches wide
by six inches deep —flourished in a Sydney daily (the
“Sun”) last week:
REBELS’ FURIOUS FIGHT TO RETAKE
VILLAGE.
SCENES OF CARNAGE NEAR MADRID.
Bombers’ Deadly Visit to Catalan Capital.
65 SLAIN, 150 HURT.
The last line would merit enshrining in an an-
thology of anti-climax. But the increasing numbers
who follow up the cable-“news” from day to day
as a comic serial had an even more ludicrous anti-
climax presented to them in the following day’s
“news” of the same “scenes of carnage”:
Lorries laden with beer and mineral waters and tank-
wagons with water ploughed through the shell-riddled
fields to quench the thirsts of the fighters.
Diggers, and all others with a historical sense, must
read such “news” with a wry expression.
It can be easily said that nobody needs any
reminding of what the 1914-1918 war was like. In
the alarmist exaggerations of comparative skirmish-
ings that can be read in the papers from day to day
there is plenty of evidence that the actuality of that
war has passed out of memory. When a paper can
be stirred to screamer-headlines of “Scenes of Car-
nage: 65 slain, 150 hurt” there is a sense of dispropor-
tion abroad somewhere —either in the* paper or among
the readers it seeks to satisfy.
The casualty figures that fall lightly from the
historian’s pen for the length of the Great War are
so terrific that it requires an effort to realise that it
is men they represent. But there is one brief record
of that war which must impress all who read it—
in the Somme offensive of 1916, 60,000 British
men alone were killed or wounded in one attack
inside 24 hours. Pasted up where they headline the
alarm cables, that one item might reduce even the
most scaremongering journalist to a sense of propor-
tion. Along with it, for consideration with “lorries
laden with beer and mineral waters,” some such item
as this might be snipped from the histories:
The question that remained was whether the British
infantry could cross no-man’s-land before the barrage
lifted. It was a race with death run by nearly sixty
thousand men in the first heat. They were hopelessly
handicapped. The whole mass, made up of closely-
packed waves of men, was to be launched together,
without discovering whether the bombardment had really
paralysed the resistance. Under the Fourth Army’s
instructions, those waves were to advance at “a steady
pace,” symmetrically aligned, like rows of ninepins ready
to be knocked over.
Not only newspaper scaremongers: windy pro-
fessors, over-age fire-eaters, pulpit-thumpers, Mel-
bourne’s lately-heard urgers of a Moscow war-policy
and all the rest of those who keep the world restless
with their war-yapping might get back their sense of
proportion by letting their minds face up to that
slaughter that was slaughter. Perhaps it would be
enough if the newspaper alarmists alone undertook
the job of correcting their minds with a draught of
history. It would be a start back to sanity.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
A New Deal for Transport.
In N. S. Wales the other day a man was fined £23 11s.,
including costs, for having “conveyed a load of sheep
in an unlicensed lorry,” and a carrying concern was
lined £24 7s. 6d., including costs, for having “conveyed
a farm tractor in competition with the N.S.W. Govern-
ment railways.” About the same time about 100
motor vehicles engaged in the carriage of goods from
Melbourne to the Riverina and back had to be taken
off the roads in consequence of a High Court judg-
ment refusing the Riverina Transport Proprietary an
injunction restraining the State of Victoria and the
Victorian Transport Regulations Board from inter-
lering with its inter-State operations.
In the judgment of the Chief Justice it was laid
down that even it it were clearly established that the
board had discriminated against the proprietary
because it was a company engaged in inter-State trade
and commerce, or that a different principle had been
applied in dealing with inter-State and intra-State
applications, the plaintiff had no cause of action.
Neither discrimination in- the terms of a State
statute against inter-State trade and commerce nor dis-
crimination against such trade and commerce in the
administration of a valid State statute in itself con-
stitutes an infringement of Section 92.
Section 92 is, of course, the inter-State freetrade
section of the Constitution. As interpreted in High
Court judgments and the interpretations must be
accepted, nor are they here questioned—it does not
apply to inter-State transport. In the domain of
transport Australians are definitely less free than
Britons, Maorilanders and South Africans, who have
unitary, not Federal, systems. In Britain, South Africa
and Maoriland no proceeding of any provincial
authority or nark can lawfully impede the movement
of privately-owned transport when such movement is
made in conformity with national law.
In effect, the Riverina loses a fine transport service
which has been built up by enterprising Australians 1 —
incidentally, Australians seem to have a genius for
transport when not trammelled by Government owner-
ship and red-tape—and the Melbourne-Mt. Gambier
road service, to provide for which the Melbourne
Government built very expensive roads, is also under
sentence of death.
It is loosely argued that some Government rail-
way department or other will benefit from this out-
lawry of swift and convenient road services; but
although the war on road competition is now in its
seventh year Government railways still fail to pay.
A Commonwealth statistician has computed the Gov-
ernment railway losses for the year to June f 3O, 1936,
at £1,648,000. This means that they were probably
twice as much. For in official calculations alleged
writing-off of capital on which interest has still to be
paid (£28,000,000 in Queensland alone), and free-of-
interest loans and large grants of tax-money to insol-
vent railway departments, are not allowed for, and
depreciation is treated as something that never hap-
pens.
No rates or taxes are paid by these railway depart-
ments. No protestations of increased devotion to the
public are heard from trade-unions of Government
railwaymen at the periodical removal of checks to their
power. On the contrary, Red leaders who can claim
to be their mouthpieces darkly threaten transport hold-
ups in the intervals of denouncing Fascism and
demanding Australian interference on the Moscow
side in the affairs of foreign countries. Every time a
fleet of motor vehicles is legislated or regulated off the
roads these Reds’ capacity for mischief is increased.
The progress and security of Australia require a
fair deal for privately-owned transport; and that
means a new deal.
Control of the Note Issue.
The majority of the commissioners who spent the
best part of two years looking into and reporting on
Australian banking have recommended control of
Commonwealth Bank policy. Not control by Parlia-
ment, but by Government. Napier, J., and Mr. Pitt
demurred, the chairman expressing the conviction that
the bank’s policy should be outside the sphere of
party politics.
It isn’t so long since the bank board’s views and
political expediency came into holds. At a Loan
Council meeting Mr. Casey, the Federal Treasurer,
supporting the board’s action in refusing to under-
write a bigger loan, said “You can’t get a quart out
of a pint-pot.” Dissatisfied, Mr. Stevens, of N. S.
Wales, retorted something to the effect that the pint-
pot might be enlarged; if he meant anything, it was
that credit-wangling of some sort was more appeal-
ing than economy.
In this instance Mr. Casey backed the board —it
wasn’t much use his doing anything else. But another
Treasurer at another time, with a bank board of
“yes”-men under his direction, might prove weaker
or more adventurous. We have had several woeful
adventures recently in trade-diversion experiments and
tariff-bungling that were never discussed by Parlia-
ment.
The bank board at present is a check to political
monetary expediency. Without its independence it
would be a board of obedient civil servants. If any
Government is persuaded by the royal commission’s
report that the board should be subject to political
control it would be treachery to put its convictions
into effect without consulting the people. The present
Federal Government has been given a convincing
“No” at the polls on two matters that can hardly
be described as more important than control over the
value of the people’s money.
The Day of the Diesel.
The General Motors Corporation, which has a vast
plant in Australia, is about to go in for Diesel-engine
manufacture in the U.S.A., and may extend the enter-
prise to this country.
The Diesel already is a standard engine at sea.
Thousands of trains, buses and lorries run on Diesel
fuels. In England and Germany Diesel-engined cars
are on the roads, and the Diesel motor has been
applied to heavy aeroplanes. A German Junker, the
Lawrence Hargrave, was flown to Australia recently,
and has been operating as a substitute machine on
Australian inter-capital passenger air routes.
In Diesels a wide range of cheap fuels, rich in
energy, can be used. Fuel oil suitable for heavy engines
can be bought retail in Australia for l\d. a gallon,
the equivalent of the petrol tax. It is rated at about
170,000 British thermal units to the gallon, against
the 138,000 of the best petrol.
Diesel engines will run on vegetable fuels which
could be produced in Australia on a large scale. Dr.
Diesel himself was an ardent advocate of peanut oil,
and cottonseed oil is also a possibility. And even
with their present capacity, which is not put to full
use, Broken Hill Prop, and the gas companies of
Australia could turn out great quantities of refined
tar oil suitable for Diesel use. Production of Diesel
fuels from coal is a much more attractive proposi-
tion than production of first-run petrols.
Should these mineral fuels come into general use,
freight carrying by aeroplanes will be an economic
possibility, and railway departments will be hard put
to it to maintain.their dog-in-the-manger policy toward
private road transport, even if they themselves adopt
the Diesel engine generally for trains, as they may.
N. S. Wales and S.A. already have Diesel-train units on
the rails.
"Impressions of Germany."
As represented in the cables, N.S.W. Deputy-Premier
Bruxner found the “German atmosphere tense.”
For the sake of those who look on all political
jargon with suspicion it is a pity the most leisurely
of the Coronation-tripping Parliamentarians was not
more explicit on the condition called “tense.”
Of course, he may have been speaking literally,
having perhaps discovered some new quality in the
“atmosphere,” but the probability is that those who
swallow Red and Pink propaganda against Germany
running that against Italy neck and neck have
accepted Mr. Bruxner as yet another witness of
Germany as the disease spot in Europe’s restless body.
Two other versions of Germany have been given
an airing—one in Sydney and one in Melbourne. The
authority Sydney heard was Dr. Hans Luther, formerly
Chancellor of Germany and president of the Reichs-
bank, and lately Ambassador to the U.S.A.
Dr. Luther told an interviewer that, having been
absent from Germany from 1935 until last December,
he returned there to find the people happier, un-
employment practically non-existent and a new con-
fidence sprung up in men, women and youths. He
contrasted this Germany with that of 1932, when
“the German nation was poised on the edge of a
precipice and was about to disintegrate.”
If a man had not come with the qualities of leader-
ship I do not know what would have happened to the
German nation.
Anti-German propagandists would doubtless accuse
Dr. Luther of bias; but the other observer is not to
be dismissed on any such ground. He is a Digger
member of the Coronation contingent, Captain Rex
Hall, back in Melbourne after having travelled 800
miles in Germany.
As Captain Hall saw it, “the rehabilitation of
Germany, after years of impoverishment due to the
Great War, must be an example to the world.” He
found the people working to amazing purpose in
rebuilding their nation.
Since Joseph Chamberlain’s son became Prime
Minister, there has been a change for the better in
the relations of Britons and Germans, and Britons
and Italians, too. By-elections indicate that public
opinion in Britain is strongly in favor of the new
Government’s efforts to improve the atmosphere, and
Australians should be of the same mind. To Austra-
lians no country is “the enemy,” and they deny to no
people the right to choose its own form of govern-
ment, while greatly preferring their own.
■«>.
Steamers (and Courts) in Collision.
On January 29, “about 11.11 p.m.,” a collision
occurred in Hobson’s Bay between the steamships
Caradale and Kakariki, the Kakariki sinking in a
matter of minutes with a loss of five lives.
The Court of Marine Inquiry, giving its finding
within a fortnight of the occurrence, found that “the
Kakariki was solely to blame.” Conclusions reached
by the Court were:
Proper and seamanlike care was exercised in the
navigation of the Caradale, but was not exercised in
the navigation of the Kakariki.
The collision was caused by default of the master of
the Kakariki in (a) failing to keep out of the
way of the Caradale when, by his action in altering
his course to port, the Kakariki became the crossing
ship with the Caradale on her starboard side ; and ( b )
being the giving-away ship, not avoiding crossing ahead
of the Caradale, thus committing breaches of Articles
19 and 22 respectively of the schedule to the Naviga-
tion (Collisions) Regulations.
The Court further found that “the default on the part
of the master of the Kakariki did not constitute a
gross act of misconduct.”
Claims for damages arising, the scene shifts from
the Court of Marine Inquiry to the' Admiralty juris-
diction of the High Court. There last week Mr.
Justice Dixon held that “the collision was due to
the negligence of the Caradale, and the Caradale was
solely to blame.”
He thought that those navigating the Caradale were
off their guard at the critical time, and fell into excite-
ment and confusion. A probable explanation of the
attempt to avoid the collision by putting the Caradale’s
helm over to starboard was that her stem was already
farther over than was admitted. A mistake was made
by the master of the Caradale in putting the helm
hard-a-starboard; he saw that the other ship had
gone to port, and if he, too, had ported, the collision
would not have occurred.
A claim for £50,000 damages by the company
which owned the Kakariki was referred to the Regis-
trar to report the amount due ; a counter-claim for
£25,000 was dismissed.
A stay of proceedings for a month was granted.
And there the matter stands, leaving the ordinary run
of plain man, who looks on the operations of Courts
more curiously than understandingly, to wrestle with
his bewilderment.
Joining Australia and M.L. by Air.
After long delays, the method of organising the air
service from Australia across the Tasman has been
agreed upon. It is uniform with the system which will
cover the cross-Atlantic route, the terms of which
were announced in the House of Commons a yeai
ago.
The service is to be jointly controlled by the
United Kingdom, Australian and Maoriland Govern-
ments through a company. Maoriland will find 39
p.c. of the £lOO,OOO a year which may be needed, the
U.K. 38 p.c., and Australia 23 p.c. Each country will
have three directors on the board —Australia’s will
probably include H. P. Brown, Director of Postal
Services, and E. C. Johnston, Controller of Civil Avia-
tion. The ’planes used will be the same as on the
Atlantic and London-Australia runs—the 17-ton Im-
perial Airways Canopus flying-boats.
The Atlantic service will be operated by a joint
concern, for which the U.K. will find 51 p.c. of the
money and the Canadian and Irish Free State Gov-
ernments 244- p.c. each. All practical preference
will be given to routes which travel via the Irish Free
State, Newfoundland and Canada, but during the
winter, at least until ships are bigger, the service may
have to be carried on via the Azores and Bermuda
and thence along the routes of Pan-American Air-
ways.
i This United States Government concern, which,
apart from services in the two American continents,
already has a connection across the North Pacific
via Hawaii, will participate in the cross-Atlantic ser-
vice, its ’planes operating alternately with those of
Imperial Airways. This concession is to be allowed
in return for permission being given for the British
machines to fly into U.S.A.. A similar British-U.S.A.
branch service, all the year round,- has already been
arranged between Bermuda and New York.
Plans for the Atlantic service are complete. Cross-
ings have been made, and the immense Newfoundland
landing-ground is almost finished.
When the Atlantic and M.L. airlines are in
operation, only one ocean, outside the Indian, will
remain to be spanned by British-controlled aircraft —
the Pacific.
Under present arrangements no British Pacific
air service is in sight, though there is an agreement
between Maoriland and U.S.A. for a Pan-American
Clipper service, under U.S.A. control, via Honolulu
and Pago Pago to Auckland. A British service via
Fiji and Hawaii is bound to come.
The Atlantic service in its early stages will carry
only mails, but it should be carrying passengers
within the next five years. The Tasman service, cover-
ing a comparatively short stretch of water, will prob-
ably carry passengers very early in its history.
All for £B5O a Year.
“Physician” : The ever-borrowing Greater Brisbane
Council has just appointed a Medical Officer of
Health. He is an ear, nose and throat surgeon,
well known as a specialist, but without special
training in Public Health work. However, he has
promised to take the Diploma of Public Health in
12 months’ time.
It will be a full-time job, and the holder wili
be required “to provide his own transport.” He
will also have to act as “medical officer for the
tramway department” (at the latest calculation there
were 1565 tramway employees, “exclusive of track
construction men”) and as the “medical referee on
claims against the council.” The salary is £B5O p.a.
Hobart, with one-fifth of Greater Brisbane’s popu-
lation (300,000), pays £BOO p.a.
There were only eight applicants. This is sur-
prising, for medical officers of health are often
altruists, who with opportunities for service in sight
are apt to overlook the financial side. There can be
no doubt of the opportunities for service in Brisbane :
nowhere else in Australia is there one municipal body
with an area of 300 square miles and complete control
of everything within that area.
The applications came from England, N.S.W.,
Westralia and Queensland. None from Victoria,
South Australia or Tasmania. Possibly Queensland
Labor’s attitude to the medical professions is getting
known. In Queensland medical officers of depart-
ments are habitually placed below clerks and hospital
doctors under lay boards.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Prisoner 241”: A fellow-passenger on
the prison tram to Long Bay was a lad
who, anxious to get after a job quickly
and lacking money for his fare, had
jumped the train from St. Leonards to
Wynyard. Two days was his portion —
of course, he had no cash to pay a fine.
One day having expired while he was at
the lockup, he was run out to the Bay,
put into prison clothes and then told to
hop back into his civvies for discharge.
There is a rule that any prisoner who
has less than a bob when he is passed
out of the gate must be given his fare
to the city ; so, to complete the farce,
the man who had been punished for
evading a fourpenny train fare was
handed fourpence for a tram fare. And
the State, no doubt, felt that it had
done a good day’s work.
* * * *
“Ek Dum”: Toasted muffin for the
tallest yarn of the week to the, com-
munique about the Indian coolie who was
chased up a rubber tree in the Malay
States by a 13ft. king cobra—the world’s
biggest venomous serpent —and who
quietened it with song. The hamadryad
when in a hurry moves about as fast as
Satan’s pet greyhound following a fry-
ing politician over the grid, so Gunga
Din must have had a big start and been
a super-climber. Rubber trees were not
made for coolies to climb; cobras
take them in their stride, but e.ven in
moments of supreme passion they don’t
usually follow men into trees. This one,
however, seems to have been abnormally
sensitive, since he behaved in accord-
ance with the ancient fallacy that snakes
are charmed by music! lam ready to
believe a lot —especially since my “Even-
ing Blurb” tells me that in Siam they
have killed a king cobra 18ft. 4in. long—
but I am not ready, without affidavits, to
credit that any coolie would have breath
enough to sing after being chased by a
13ft. snake. Anyway, if this coolie sang
like most coolies, the concert would cer-
tainly have stirred a self-respecting snake
to determined fury.
* # * *
“Ente Marid”: How account for the
amazing discrepancy between the num-
ber of widows and widowers in Aus-
tralia? At the last census, there were
230,180 bereaved ladies against 97,775
mourning husbands. The figures further
show the astonishing lasting power of
Australian - born capital - city wives,
94,000 of whom survived their better
halves, against only 27,188 male relicts.
Of immigrants 43,064 in the Common-
wealth’s Big Smokes wore weeds and
18,600 were widowers when the census-
taker called.
* * * *
“D.E.”: Pleasant surprises came to
the Commonwealth and State Treasurers
and many private persons, mostly Syd-
neians, when the will of Wallace John
Carson and the sworn value of his estate
were published. Carson cut up for
£622,000, and as he left no issue, being
an old bachelor, N.S.W. gets 25 p.c. and
the Commonwealth 15 p.c. of the bal-
ance. Carson’s name is in none of the
reference books, and was never men-
tioned in the papers. As a youngster
he was a contemporary of H. H. Massie
in the Commercial of Sydney, but left
the bank early and made money in the
wine and spirit business. He came into
more by an uncle’s death, and added to
these possessions by shrewd investments.
Since his death it has been discovered
that he made princely gifts to charities
and war funds, and in his will seems to
have remembered everyone who had
done him a kindness. Thirteen cousins,
friends of both sexes, hospital matrons
and nurses, servants, a broker’s clerk, a
chauffeur —he remembered them all. To
three sisters he left £4OO a year apiece,
and another lady who lives in the, Same
Marrickville street he made the richer by
£l5OO a year. He is described as a tall,
“Thanks all the same, but I'll Wait for one with a radio."
spare old man, very courteous and very
retiring in his manners. “The world
knows nothing of its greatest men.” Does
it know much about the richest?
* * * *
A recent Bulletin pictured
gag of a parson being sworn in to tell
the whole truth and nothing but the
truth might have been a twist on an
actual occurrence at the Woollahra
(Sydney) by-election voting. In front
of me in the doubtfully-on-the-roll
a nun made her declaration. “You
know, of course,” said the Digger scru-
tineer magisterially, “the penalty for
making a false declaration is three
months.” The Sister’s glance at his
badge and her wintry smile were as elo-
quent as a two-vol. account of the A.I.F.
* * * *
“Tydides”: One wouldn’t say that
Earl Baldwin and William Morris
Hughes possessed much in common,
but each has a son and heir whose
goings-on must be a subject of occa-
sional concern to the old folk. Billy’s
hopeful is a bright light of trade-union-
ism at Canberra and leads deputations of
unemployed to Parliament House.
Oliver Baldwin has contested several
elections as a red-hot Laborite, and sat
in the Commons as one for a couple oi
years. The younger Hughes, of course,
is only beginning as his father began,
however much the latter may have mel-
lowed since, but the younger Baldwin
has trampled underfoot all the tra-
ditions of heredity and environment. He
was at Eton and served in the war, m
the course of which he was captured
and held a prisoner by the Bolsheviks,
which would hardly, one thinks, incline
a young Englishman to advanced politi-
cal doctrines. Hughes fils is luckier
than Baldwin fils in one respect; he runs
little risk of ever becoming a nobleman,
Oliver, assuming that he lives long
enough, will be an earl, whether he
likes it nr nnt
* °r no. , ,
“Adam”: After being told that she
couldn’t chew gum while, at work, our
new telephone girl was instructed to
make a note of any number asked for,
and to keep trying for it if it happened
to be engaged. We have five lines in
our office, and in no time she had a
long list of numbers. Over the street a
building is being pulled down, and part
of a wall dropped on a workman. One
of his mates rushed across and asked our
blonde to telephone the ambulance, then
ran back to do what he could. He le-
turned in hot haste 20 minutes later.
“What’s keeping the ambulance. he
asked anxiously. “Bill’s in a bad way.
Blondie took her headphones off.
she said. “You don’t know this office.
I’ve got 15 more numbers to go before
I get to yours.”
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: An Adelaide suburb has had
a comedy drama. (1) Householder,
driving home late, saw a man in his
garden. Search produced only shoes and
overcoat, up a tree. (2) Police sent out a
call for any shoeless person, and a young
man was found limping. (3) His explana-
tion was? Saw a girl home, on to the
verandah, and she told him not to make
a noise. Parked his shoes up a tree, and
couldn’t remember where. So had just
left a note at the police station to ask the
constable to help find them. (4) Arrested
for being intoxicated.
* w * * t-
“Machete”- I note in the Service
Column (B. 28/7/’37) that “there is not
a market in Australia for song lyrics.”
Too right.. Long ago in a period when
syrupy ballads to waltz tunes were all
the go, aTnend of mine suspectmg I was
guilty of doggerel-I was just the age-
suggested I should write something sen-
tirnental that would fit a waltz tu
had m hand. He had a brother who kept
a music shop, and we would get him to
publish the thing and so make our for-
tunes. The brother, unfortunately, proved
a bowelless brute. He refused to pub-
fish unless we paid a fiver in advance for
100 copies. Fivers were dashed hard to
come by in those days, but with the
prospect of untold wealth in sight we.
managed it. Total sales brought us m
six shillings—three at 2s. a copy. Presen-
tation copies brought the total issue to
five and twenty. What became of the
other 75 I never heard. Still, I scored in
one way over my collaborator. I sent
my verse to The Bulletin, which, to my
amazement, paid me for it.
* * * *
“Double Disc”: Szakats, who invented
the Flammenwerfer, has died in poverty
in Budapest The beastly thing was not a
/real success in a general attack; the
8 ‘ carried the cylinders were
SvThot down. Nevertheless, the roar-
fnfnote and terrific heat were apt to
put the wind up green troops. And it
sometimes wrought havoc in our own
dugouts during raids; in the German
attack in T 7 at the mouth of the Yser
the flamethrowers did frightful work in
the galleries beneath the dunes. They
were later discarded by the Germans for
many reasons, one of which was that the
cylinders were easily ignited by shell-
fire, with the result that every o.ne in
the near vicinity was incinerated.
* * * *
“Kenya”: Sydney is in the grip of an
ep i dem i c G f philately. The school-
children on the ferry I board each morn-
j n g have deserted their usual juvenile
thrillers to pore over albums and swap
s t am p S- On arrival at my office I am
apt to bnd that the stamps have been
r ipp ed o ff the envelopes of my personal
ma -j hy some enterprising youth. Yes-
terday two of them had a stand-up fight
over the ownership of a Southern Rho-
desja coronation stamp. Even the
sen jors have not escaped the craze ; this
morn j n g j found two middle-aged clerks
snar i| n g OV er the contents of my waste-
paper basket. The only explanation I
can find is that a Sydney firm which
ma nufactures a fine of peanut butter hit
on tke bright idea of attaching a small
packet of used postage stamps to every
jar it sells, and has also issued a de-
scriptive stamp album.
* * * *
‘Double Disc : 1 ouching the post-
Armistice flogging ol mokes in Bel-
gium (B. 21/7/ 37), I had to take the
discards from two brigades of artillery
—personnel, guns, horses, mules and
equipment—from near Grammont to
Menin. After the first day or two, along
with a fair proportion of the men, half
of the donks and a few of the horses had
vanished. A hasty search produced
most of them from butchers and farmers
close to Courtrai. We hooked in every
animal able to walk, and moved on,
but despite our vigilance some of them
had disappeared before we got to Menin.
Returning at leisure we found remnants
g fj*”
Jn irjes reve y aled that a mule had
between 100 and 300,
horse about 1000 « onks » The losses
£xplaincd away as “Died from dis-
ease”—the peace-time equivalent appa-
of “D estroyed by shell fire”!
y ... * *
“Penrith”: Without in any way seeking
tQ detract f rom “7346’5” deductions re-
oarding Richthofen’s clock (B. 21/7/’37)
j wou i d point out that “K.u.K. Kaiser-
ncfie un( i Konigliche” (the Emperor’s and
Rj n g’ s troops) does not necessarily refer
to troops of the Emperor of Austria and
Rj n g G f Hungary. Until his abdication
R a j ser gip W as Emperor of Germany
and Rj n g 0 f Prussia,
* * * *
“Exdig”: More than surnames and
place-names suffered a change through
tbe wa r-induced anti-German feeling (B.
28/7/’37). To-day we ask for “Devon
sausage”—before the war it was German
sausage. The Vienna Restaurant in
Sydney promptly became The Parisian;
but the Frankfurt Sausage Co., not mov-
ing quickly enough had its windows
smashed before it relabelled its wares.
And the founder of the business was a
Frenchman, and there wasn t a German
in the concern.
THE BURDEN OF ARCHIE-PARKIE.
“I shall oppose Sir Archdale Parkhill, Minister
of Defence, in the Warringah division because I
think the electors are sick and tired of him.”
— Mr. Spender, K.C.
This world of ours is full of coves
Who might be classed as quitters.
Some lose their taste for rum and cloves,
And some for gin and bitters.
Some tire of curries overhot
Or spuds so stodgy-starchy.
Satiety’s our common lot.
And now the point is—whether or not
Warringah’s tired of Archie.
From where a King and Queen were crowned
’Mid dazzling pomps and splendors
He’s back, one gathers, to confound
This estimate of Spender’s.
He’s full as ever of verbal fight,
He’s spick-and-span and sparky;
Moreover, as a belted knight,
He can’t believe Warringah might
Be getting sick of Parkie.
His name is writ upon the scroll
Of fame. His scorn would blister
The hide of any heedless soul
Accosting him as “Mister.”
The bare idea some hostile force
Can stay his upward march he
Declines to credit or endorse —
Excepting and unless, of course,
Warringah sours on Archie.
A bloke of credit and renown,
The notion leaves him scoffing
That men should turn a war-lord down
When wars are in the offing.
What though he never had a smell
Of powder or of khaki,
He holds it unbelievable
Warringah, which he’s served so well,
Should get fed up with Parkie.
Ev’n I myself grow tired at times,
I’m not above conceding,
Of churning out these artless rhymes
You well may tire of reading.
I need a rozener to sniff
And sink —my throat feels parchy.
Has he, too, bored his hearers stiff?
Well, in the hustings bash and biff
We’ll mighty soon discover if
Warringah’s tired of Archie.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Perry”: When my favorite bishop
was asked to make a record for broad-
casting he produced an excellent speech
on the conduct of life, ending up with
the observation “For each man reaps his
just reward hereafter.” “I don’t think
that is too long,” remarked the bishop,
turning away. The record was ready for
use shortly after, and an interested com-
pany listened to its trial spin, the bishop
among them. All went well until the con-
cluding line, when the audience was
appalled to hear the thing finish up cheer-
fully, “For each man reaps his just
reward hereafter I don’t think.” It didn’t
go on the air.
* * * *
“Harold Hardupp”: A recent Aus-
tralian book featured a scene in Long
Bay, where prisoner 207, who men-
tioned that he was “doing a drag” of
two and a half years for counterfeiting,
chummed up with 319, an elderly
schemer serving a long sentence for com-
pany frauds, and the pair made plans for
further villainy on their release. Prison-
ers to-day are strictly classified, and cer-
tain ranges of numbers are allotted to
each class. The initiated would know
at once that 207 was merely a wife-
starver and that 319 was a juvenile
(under 25) first offender. The long-
distance criminals mentioned in the book
would have a number between I and 99
"So the skipper reckons she wont do more than twelve knots, eh! I'll show him!”
preceded by a letter. They might be in
Long Bay, but such men are generally
sent on elsewhere. The number sys-
tem enables officials to know at a glance
the classification of each prisoner; and
the arrangement for keeping the classes
separate would make a warder swoop
very quickly if he saw a 207 and a 319
in earnest conversation. Finally, a
“drag” is only three months.
* $ *
“S.T.S.” I The change in the rails in
, W °^ d haVC the h , eart
°t old John Forrest, who did so much to
bring the Transcontinental railway into
being. The “7” years have been im-
P ortant for it. In 1907 the Common-
wealth Parliament
authorised a sur-
vey. Five years to
think about it, five
to construct it,
and in 1917 it was
opened. Now in
1937 its one awk-
ward snag has been
removed. S.A.’s
standard sft. 3in.
had, for some odd
reason, been aban-
doned half-way be-
tween Adelaide and
Port Augusta, and
a 3ft. 6in. line
wound over moun-
tains to that port,
where the Com-
monw ea 11 h 4ft.
Byin. came in from
Kalgoorlie. For 20
years that track,
with its two breaks
and changes, has
been used, though
there is a flat
route available
from Augusta to
Adelaide alongside
the two Gulfs.
This is at last to be
used, cutting the
distance d o w n,
also, from 260
miles to 190. The
Commonwealth has
extended its 4ft.
BTin. gauge south-
ward as far as
Port Pirie—a mere plate-laying job, an
engineer calls it—and S.A. has done
what is necessary between there and
the city.
“Ike Hollar”: Children of a, Sydney
suburb had a thrill when the local school
went up in flames the other night. The
flare was accidental; but many school
fires have been caused by disgruntled
scholars. I remember an outburst of
juvenile hero-worship for two boys who
fired the weatherboard seat of learning
I attended. The pair were sent to the
reformatory ship Vernon. Most of such
fires have been traced to subnormal
pupils; in that instance the school’s
star pupil was the leading fire-bug. Re-
sentment at the loss of a prize awarded
to someone else because the star pupil
already had a hatful was the cause.
* * * $
“Home-made”: Wot’s all this about
the British Guv’ment objectin’ to people
usin’ up all the new 12-sided trey-bits
for makin’ put-and-take tops out uv?
Er course, the Guv’ment might use a
bit better stuff ’n wot we do, but any-
body in the. game knows that a two-bob
made in the Melbun Mint ain’t worth
two-bob in silver, and if that new
thrum’s worth more’n a brown I’m ready
t’ swaller me coinin’ plant, which I tried
to do once w’en the cops were after me,
“And the legacy shall be immediately revoked should any beneficiary be
convicted of murder, arson, housebreaking, bigamy or any other
major crime .”
anyway. If Mister Chamberlin ’ud on’y
encurrage people to turn them thrums
into other gadgets there’d be enuf proflit
in it t’ do away with that increased in-
cum tacks. I know.
$ % *!' v
“Micah”: Queer obsessions? I was
sent the other day to help with a rush
job in a city office, and the boss began
dictating a batch of letters for an early
mail. It was a warm morning, and the
first reminder that spring isn’t far behind,
a large blowfly, swept in and began
buzzing around. The boss looked at it
irascibly, muttered to himself, got up with
a remark that he couldn’t stand this,
seized his hat and shot into the street.
It was an hour before he returned, looked
round apprehensively, sighed with relief,
dictated rapidly for an hour and became
the complete man of affairs. In the
meantime I had learned that the staff,
all aware of his kink, never pretended
to notice it, but waged a silent war on
blowflies all the year round,
* * * *
“Macann”: If “Ike Hollar” (B.
28/7/’37) had done a little practical in
vestigating he would have soon discov
ered the reason for the popularity of the
hamburger joints around Sydney. Com-
pared with the pie or saveloy that haunts
his memory the hamburger is an item for
epicures. It is a fair-sized light bread
loaf, toasted and packed within with a
flat rissole (grilled), garnished with
shredded lettuce, slices of tomato and
onions, the whole touched off with
tomato sauce. For interior variety, a
whole egg (grilled), with lettuce and a
packing of other garnishing. Either, ex-
ceptionally tasty. Cost is a zac, and one
is a fair meal.
* * * *
“Ex-P.8.1.”: I can back up “Morifa’s”
(B. 28/7/’37) surmises concerning mus-
tard gas and kilts. At Inverness Copse
(Ypres), in ’l7, I was with a Jock carry-
ing party one night when we ran into a
gas-shell “strafe.” The liquid gas from
a close-bursting mustard shell burned
through the thick leather of a heavy pair
of Norwegian ski boots I was wearing,
and left me with scars I still carry. What
it did to some of the Scots is too hor-
rible to detail. The kilt, as a war-time
uniform, is ridiculous. In muddy trenches
it was a curse ; as a breeding-ground for
“chats” it was in a class of its own, and
wounded men lying out in the summer
were often terribly sunburned, sometimes
permanently crippled. Yet when it was
proposed (by Sassenach brass-hats) to
substitute f.s. trousers in Highland bat-
talions the Jocks nearly staged a mutiny.
*** ■ *
“Orwell”: Horseflesh (B. 21/7/’37) has
always occupied a prominent place on
the working man’s menu in France. It is
openly exposed for sale, but the shops
which supply it are debarred by law from
offering any other kind of meat; they
must also display a big wooden equine
head over the front entrance so that cus-
tomers with delicate stomachs will make
no mistake about what they are buying..
The Government doesn’t pry into restau-
rant menus, however, and I’ve often had
my suspicions.
* * * *
“M.”: Back in November a Williams-
town (Vic.) councillor observed “What a
fool of a Mayor!” But the Mayor didn’t
think so —and ever since then the coun-
cillor, who refused to apologise, has been
gagged at the council table, his Washup
refusing to hear him. After eight months
of this—‘though he did shout complaints
at the chair occasionally—the councillor
has taken his grievance to court, and the
Mayor has been called upon to “show
cause” why a writ of mandamus should
not issue directing him to “discharge his
duties properly” and allow the councillor
to “generally exercise his rights and privi-
leges.”
(Continued on page 50.)
A SUGGESTION OF TEMPER.
There v,as a suggestion of temper in his farewell
gesture when he threw the petitioner down the
stairs. Counsel in Sydney Divorce Court .
He left her. On the issue of desertion
She sued, and got the usual decree.
No word of cruelty was in her version
Of why she felt entitled to be free.
Still, Jt was plain enough they couldn’t agree,
And it s, you’d think, a gesture that declares
More than mere incompatibility
When hubby throws his missus down the stairs.
There was no hint of inhumane coercion
By the respondent on his vis-a-vis
Before he made incontinent excursion
To regions overland or oversea.
His claim, it seems, to equanimity,
Desirable in conjugal affairs,
Was never questioned or impugned till he
threw her, a parting gesture, down the stairs.
He left her. No habitual immersion
in pots of beer or nips of O.V.G.
lugged them apart. She cast no dark aspersion
Upon her erring mate’s sobriety.
There was no proof he went upon the spree
Or got enmeshed in other ladies’ snares—
Or even showed irritability
Until the day he threw her down the stairs.
They quarrelled doubtless, you may guarantee,
Like lots of other matrimonial pairs.
Still, there was really nothing that could be
Construed as temper rising violently
Except the time he threw her down the stairs.
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


Ct *Av
%
A
V.
20M'6
10 for 9 d
W 1874
For real quality Tobacco...
and for your throat’s sake
•I
smoke
CRAVENA
ARE MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS
■
.. t
p
ii
Hi
QaUXDEE
POLITICAL POINTS
Reds in the. N.S.W. coalmining dis-
tricts are working hard—for a stoppage.
The cause is alleged to have been ad-
vanced by a couple of stay-in strikes in
bleak and draughty pits, but signs of
public approval of this dangerous tom-
foolery are conspicuously lacking.
Neither will there be. public support for
the strike on which Communists have set
their hearts, and which can’t possibly
make a sick industry well or help Labor
to win the Commonwealth elections.
N.S.W. Labor has had to alter its
alphabetical Senate ticket, Anderson
having retired. Arthur is available, so
it will still have four aces in its hand.
At least it hopes the electors will regard
them as aces and give the word its
proper pronunciation.
Victoria’s Hocking-Dunstan Country-
party group has discovered that the pres-
ence of Paterson in the Lyons Ministry
constitutes “a standing embarrassment”
to the Dunstan Government because the
Lyons Ministry is “controlled by a poli-
tical party in official opposition” to the
Dunstan Government. This “embarrass-
ment” began when Dunstan and his pals
left the Argyle (U.A.P.) Government to
grab office for themselves, with Labor
support. Their group has decided to
run a Senate team of three, which is cer-
tain to be licked; so it has become
fatuous while remaining arrogant and
greedy.
Parkhill is to have three opponents in
Warringah: Spender, K.C., Joseph
Hamlet (the Nats, once sent Joe to Goul-
burn to oppose Tully for the local
Assembly seat) and the Labor man,
Keegan. He has darkly warned them,
particularly Spender, that since the legis-
lative halls first opened to receive him
he has only once failed to increase his
majority. In point of fact he has had
only three contests, and the opposition
three years ago was negligible.
Premier Butler (S.A.) is so satisfied
with the work of his Government dur-
ing the five-year term it awarded itself
by Act of Parliament that he is introduc-
ing a bill to make five-year Parliaments
part of the Constitution. It will need 24
votes in the Assembly. Although Butler
and his friends are supposed to number
27 it will be hard to muster 27. Labor
is dead against the measure, and, when
reminded that Tasmanian Labor had
adopted a similar provision, F. F. Ward,
the A.L.P. secretary, said he didn’t think
much of Tas. Labor for doing so.
N.S.W. Premier Stevens, who borrowed
£2,000,000 in London “for the Water
Board” —an itch for borrowing and some
cloudy information about the extraction
of oil from coal were all that foreign
travel yielded him —proposes “to give the
[Sydney] transport authority the same
power of raising capital and spending it
as is already enjoyed by the Water
Board.” Perhaps it was his way of wel-
coming Casey home —Casey read this
intimation that another birth in the family
of borrowers may be expected any
moment when he reached Sydney by the
Pacific route.
Lang, roaring at a trade-union lunch
—and every time he roars he lessens
the chance of a Federal Labor victory—
attacked fire insurance cos.:
No section of the business community
has exploited the people more than these
companies.
No one ever supposed that they were
altruists, but even the hungriest of them
is not so hungry as the State Govern-
ment shows itself in its tax on fire-insur-
ance premiums. They are taxed 4d. in
the £lOO of cover even on renewals.
The last Lang Government practised this
extortion, and the Stevens Government
is continuing it.
Sir Leslie Wilson has been assuring
Londoners that “stories of excessive, taxa-
tion in Queensland are unwarranted and
untrue.” No doubt he regards his dis-
cussion of political questions as “war-
ranted” —he “justified” also “unexcessive
borrowing for sound development and
the people’s welfare.” Banks are taxed
ss. Bd. in the £ on Queensland profits,
apparently just because they are banks.
If a co. declared a 19 p.c. dividend by
way of compensating shareholders for
having gone hungry for years, the
Queensland Government would demand
7s. 2d. in the £. A £350-a-year man. in
Britain is exempt from income tax if the
head of a family of five. The Queensland
Government would take £8 6s. from
him in relief tax alone.
There were some fire-eaters among the
trade-union bosses who declared their
undying opposition “to the rearmament
policies of Baldwin and Lyons” and their
support for “collective security through
the League, as may be necessary in the
HARROWING CASE OF UNSCREWICLDE.
“It is difficult to understand why, when the Minister of Defence was sent abroad to
represent Australia at the greatest pageant of Empire, someone should try to unscrew his
seat.” —Bertie Lloyd, M.L.A. for Mosman (N.S.W.).
interests of peace”— i.e., as Moscow de-
cides. A Wonthaggi gentleman said:
I would go to Spain to-day if I could
possibly do it to fight against Franco.
The “if” suggests that he will continue
to “fight” from Wonthaggi. Another
gentleman was “loudly applauded when
he declared that his speech was a recruit-
ing speech.” He is “recruiting.. . .as
much money as possible for the Spanish
workers.”
Reports of the fighting and bombing
in North China are as incoherent as the
Spanish-war stories, but it seems to be
established that the Japanese are in con-
trol at Peiping and Tientsin. At the
week-end the much-advertised Chiang was
announcing, in Mr. Winkle’s vein, that
he was going to begin. One feature of
the situation in East and West is the
.utter impotence of the Red Republic
which is alleged to have the mightiest
army and air force in the world.
While the earnest King and his charm-
ing Queen were receiving a loyal address
in the City Hall, Belfast, a land mine
was exploded in Academy-street, 300
yards away. It had been laid against a
warehouse wall and blew a hole in the
pavement; their Majesties had been
driven along Academy-street an hour
before. Their visit to Northern Ireland
was also marked by the bombing and
firing of border Customs shacks and
attempts to blow up railway bridges.
The “Times” is probably correct in say-
ing that these outrages were “designed as
much to embarrass Mr. De. Valera as to
advertise the hostility of the Republican
army to the northern loyalists.” It is
predicted that the ruffians responsible
will witness a sort of unity they little
bargained for —co-operation of the
Dublin and Belfast Governments in root-
ing out crime or criminal lunacy mas-
querading as political agitation.
“S. M. Herald” has been publishing
Spanish-war articles by a Captain
Macnamara, M.P., who alleges that “it is
a war between the Spanish Government
on the one hand and Italy and Germany
on the other, plus a military rebellion.”
The capting, it seems, had “4000 refugee
Basque children” taken to England. Un-
fortunately publication of the articles co-
incided with the arrival of reports that
some of the refugees are to be sent back
because they are “giving the camps a
bad name” by going in for theft,
common assault, window-smashing and
, . .
marching riotously through villages Sing-
ing the “Red Flag.” Naturally this
hooliganism in a peaceful and hospitable
foreign country has set people wonder-
ing how the adult Spanish Red has
behaved on his native heath when there
wac nn one to run him in
was no one to run mm in.
While blaming “the Italians” and
tt . u , t 4., , , „ c ~
the Germans and the rebels for all
the trouble in Spain, the Sydney
“Herald’s” Captain Macnamara doesn’t
.. c u *u u t a u
mention the French, though it would be
safe to wager that there are more French
rnmmunisk Bahtina (Tovornmont
Gommunists ngnting as tjovernment
troops than there are Italians and Ger-
mans on the other side. The captain,
however, admits, perhaps inadvertently,
that the Red International Column in-
eludes “about 1000 Englishmen.” Franco
captured a score or so, kept them in gaol
for a month or two and then sent them
back to England, giving each of them a
new suit and a £5 Bank of England note.
The murderous militarist!
The tide has definitely turned against
the second Roosevelt, and probably his
Jubilee Plunger finance and his in-
action during the stay-in strike epidemic
have had as much to do with it as his
attempt to pack a Supreme Court Bench.
The “Saturday Evening Post” grumbles
that “more money is to be spent for re-
lief in a year of recovery than in a year
of deep depression.” In Australia the
position is that more money was raised
for relief during the year to June 30 than
in the worst depression twelvemonth;
but the unemployed didn’t see much of it.
“We should plan to have a' definitely
balanced Budget for the third year of
recovery,” said President Roosevelt; and
he named 1936 as the third year. His
net deficit for the third year of recovery
was $4,360,000,000. No wonder his popu-
larity is waning with those who will have
to find the money.
The, “12-inch and 16-inch guns landed
near Gibraltar by the Germans” have
proved as much a false alarm as a lot of
other daily-press discoveries. British
Defence Minister Inskip, who should
know, says that they consist of four
howitzers, essentially landward guns,
which were owned by the Spanish Gov-
ernment before the civil war.
Now that Mr. Casey is back in Aus-
tralia, he might condescend to explain a
few things on which information has
hitherto been denied:
(1) The date of the Loan Council reso-
lution which permitted the Sydney Gov-
ernment to borrow £2,000,000 in London
“for the Water Board.”
(2) The reason why the loan “for the
Water Board” was given precedence over
the Commonwealth’s own conversion loan.
(3) Whether the conversion loan at £3
16s. 2d. p.c. had a fair chance on a doubt-
ful market when it came after a 4 p.c.
flotation advertised as “approved by the
Australian Loan Council” and “not sub-
ject to N.S.W. taxes.”
(4) Whether the preliminary blurb, in
which the name of the Commonwealth
Government was dragged in, was submitted
to and sanctioned by Mr. Casey.
Geelong, a good Australian town, would
be a good place in which to explain.
Goldfinch, the late Assembly member
for Gordon (N.S.W.), got in at a by-elec-
tion without a contest just because he
was the U.A.P. nominee. After a very
perfunctory political career of 18 months
or so —he was abroad part of the time
on private business —he resigned, and the
U.A.P. selected another gentleman, and
gave it out that it expected him to get
a walkover, inasmuch as it would “save
the country the expense of an election.”
It is not to be obliged. In any
case no country should have any use for
the sort of “economy” that consists in
letting small minorities pick its members
for it.
Among the surveyors and prophets:
“An informal survey just completed has
satisfied Ministers that Perth will be easily
retained by Mr. Nairn (U.A.P.).” Except
when Labor goes off its head, Perth never
has been easy for the other side, and Nairn,
though a nice fellow, has no great following.
If he gets back, it will be on J. J. Simons’s
preferences, and Simons, the able president
of the' Y.A.L. and manager of the “Sunday
Times” and the “Mirror,” seems rather more
likely to hold the seat for the U.A.P.
The informal surveyor has also “satisfied
Ministers” that Lyons and Bell are safe in
Tasmania, which is taking rather a rosy view,
and that Guy may regain Bass. That is less
likely than that ex-Premier McPhee will wrest
Denison from Mahoney, whose majority last
time was only 117 in a poll of 23,127. McPhee
led the one Government that did not fall dur-
ing the depression, and a man who could do
that must be accounted an unusually good
candidate.
The Melbourne “Herald” group of news-
papers has a minor prophet who has satis-
fied himself that the Country party, which is
losing Echuca in the Vic. redistribution, is
“strongly entrenched in nearly all the elec-
torates it now holds.” Minister Thorby in
Calare (N.S.W.) and Minister Hunter in
Maranoa (Q.) only wish they could believe it.


Q.E.D.
“To gain public support for a statutory annual grant to Sydney University, students threaten a sit-down strike during peak-hour traffic.”


The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Incorporated in South Australia with Limited Liability.
Head Office: ADELAIDE. SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Capital Authorised .. ..£1,250,000
Capital Issued .. .. 1,250,000
Capital Paid Up .. .. • • £1,250,000
Reserve Fund .. .. •. .. 1,000,000
(Used partly in business and partly
in Government and approved
Securities.)
Reserve Liability of Shareholders ..£1,250,000
Also 107 Branches and Agencies in S'outh Australia.
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.3.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad
collected and proceeds remitted. All usual
banking business transacted.
BEL'/EOEKE
Belvedere i>sj Belvedere
k
MADE BY
MARTIN, SONS & CO., LTD.,
HUDDERSFIELD, ENGLAND,
THE FOUNDERS OF THE WORSTED INDUSTRY.
THE IDEAL OF ALL WELL-DRESSED MEN.
POSITIVELY
THE LARGEST RANGE OF EXCLUSIVE DESIGNS
EVER PRESENTED FOR MEN’S
SUITINGS
> BELVEDERES BELVEDERt **V
wmmmmm
.
The Commonwealth General
Assurance Corporation Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE: Australia House,
Wynyard Square, Sydney.
BRANCHES at Newcastle and Lismore.
VICTORIA: 475 Collins Street, Melbourne,
and at Geelong.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Epworth Buildings,
Adelaide.
A modern, progressive and purely Aus-
tralian Corporation, transacting all
classes of Idle Assurance, including:
Eight Option, Cash Bonus, Probate,
Non-Profit, Annuities, Personal Accident
and Sickness, etc.
WHY BUY BONUSES?
“MAXIMUM ASSURANCE AT
MINIMUM COST”
Write ior full particulars to
A. L. HARRIS, General Manager,
Box 140 CC, G.P.0.. SYDNEY.
PERSONAL ITEMS
Most influential German to visit Aus-
tralia since the war is Dr. Hans Luther,
recently U.S.A. Ambassador and formerly
Chancellor. Dr. Luther, who is 58, was
Mayor of Essen in 1918, was Minister of
Finance in the Governments of Strese-
mann and Marx, and went to the Chan-
cellorship on Marx’s resignation. He is
now on a world tour to study economic
conditions, and takes in Australia on his
way to Washington.
Harrie D. Wood, late N.S.W. Supreme
Court Prothonotary, survived his retire-
ment only two months. Graduating at
Sydney University in 1883 he remained
in the Supreme Court service for over 50
years. A star Rugby Union full-back in
the late ’nineties, he retained his interest
in the code to the end. He was a son of
the Harrie Wood who was an Under-
secretary for Justice.
S. W. Stilwell, just appointed Victorian
manager of the Goodyear Co., is Eng-
land-born but Australian by trial and
adoption. A year after he came to see
what Australia was like, he returned to
Europe via Gallipoli and Egypt with the
STILLWELL, of Goodyears.
4th Light Horse ; later he transferred to
the flying arm. He was with the motor
firms of Duncan and Fraser and after-
wards Fords in S.A. until he joined Good-
years in 1930, and a couple of years ago
transferred to Melbourne, as assistant-
manager.
Burly Bert Howard, “Lord Mayor of
Poverty Point,” Sydney, passed out sud-
denly on July 31 at 65. For many years
Howard conducted his business as theatri-
cal agent on the footpath at Park and
Pitt streets, opposite the now-demolished
Criterion Theatre, and there, signed up
vaudeville actors and actresses in his
notebook until he formed the Actors’
Club with Lou Dunn about five years
ago. His work for charity in prisons,
hospitals and “homes” was boundless.
R. H. Meares, who passed on the
other day, was one of Australia’s best-
known graziers. At one time he and his
brothers held the 500,000-acre Quan-
tambone, near Brewarrina (N.S.W.), and
shore their 80,000 sheep a year under
R.H.’s management until the property
was sold 10 years ago. Other stations
he owned included Innisfail, near Forbes
(N.S.W.), where he died. He was a
director of Goldsbrough Morts.
F. G. Adrian, dead at 77, retired from
the Sydney Bench after 54 years in the
public service, during which he was chief
stipendiary magistrate and a chairman of
the Metropolitan Licensing Court. His
first job as a P.M. was at Moree
(N.S.W.) in 1897. After he retired he
practised as a solicitor for a time.
The appointment of Norman O’Bryan
as a K.C. brings the number of Vic-
torian silks to 13. O’Bryan, now 42, is
a versatile counsel who qualified for
the Bar during the war, after winning
the Supreme Court Judges’ prize at his
LL.B. examination. He immediately left
for France with a commission in the
A.F.A. His practice ranges over the
whole field of law, though his strong
point is royal commissions—he has
appeared before those which have dealt
with the navy, petrol and the police,
and holds a brief in the Wonthaggi
Colliery inquiry.
Queensland Rhodes scholarship this
year has gone to 19-year-old H. M.
Finucan, of St. Joseph’s College,
Gregory-terrace, Brisbane. He proposes
to study biometrics, the science of life
measurement, of which some of the
main applications are in plant breeding.
To ensure that he will return to Aus-
tralia, the Queensland Agricultural De-
partment has guaranteed him a job when
his course is finished.
Alex. Duncan, the Vic. police chief
appointed after he had been brought
from Scotland Yard to investigate Mel-
bourne methods, has instituted numer-
ous reforms. Citizens are no longer
timid about asking cops for advice —
more courtesy was one of the first Dun-
can demands —and they have less chance
of stopping a stray bullet when curiosity
causes them,to stand and watch a police
chase ; only in special circumstances are
Vic. police now permitted to carry re-
volvers. Raising of qualifications for
entry to the force and improved train-
ing methods are other changes effected
by this Scot, whose quiet efficiency won
him promotion in the London force after
he had travelled south to join it “with-
out a bawbee.”
Abbott on an admiral:
George Francis Hyde, dead in Melbourne,
did more for Australia’s naval services than
is generally appreciated. Hard work, intense
loyalty to the service and a horror of self-
advertisement were the characteristics that most
distinguished him during his career in the
R.A.N. He joined it first as commander in
charge of the flotilla of three destroyers that
was the beginning of the Commonwealth’s un-
sustained attempt to create a modern navy on
the lines laid down in Admiral Henderson’s
1911 report. When the Great War came he
was commander in the flagship Australia, and
remained with her until 1915, when he was pro-
moted captain, given command of H.M.S.
Adventure, and was flag-captain to Admiral
Bayly from 1915 to 1917, joining the staff of
the Admiralty in 1918. Perhaps, of anything
in his long naval service, he was proudest of
having been Chief of Staff to Admiral Bayly, a
man after his own heart and his own re-
served and strenuous character. After serving
as Second and then First Naval Member of the
Commonwealth Navy Board, he took over the
command of the R.A.N. Squadron in 1926, re-
taining it until he went “on exchange” to
England to command the Third Battle Squad-
ron of the Royal Navy. He was promoted
vice-admiral in 1932, and became First Member
of the Navy Board on his return to Australia
in that year. In ’34 he represented the Com-
monwealth at the Singapore Naval Confer-
ence.
English-born director A. K. Oak-
Rhind retires from the Vacuum Oil after
40 years with the company, 27 of which
he was director in charge of motor spirit
marketing, and the past 11 director of
aviation. He watched the industry grow
from the time cars in Australia could
be numbered on the fingers of two hands.
His manner no less than his ability
jarned him the esteem and respect of
the whole industry.
Butterfly man Frederick Parkhurst
Dodd, has passed on at 76. His color-
ful museum at Kuranda, near Barron
Falls (Q.), was a Mecca for northern
tourists, and he was known the world
over among experts.
H. de C. Kellett, for the past two
years sales manager of Dangar, Gedye
and Malloch, Ltd., has been appointed
to the co.’s board of directors. He was
formerly with Dalgetys, looking after
their machinery department for 27 years.
William John Daley, the seamen’s new
Federal secretary, is a Celt from
Youghal, a fishing port in County Cork.
After sailing the seven seas he decided
to make Australia his home port 25
years ago, and in 1916 was an executive
member of the N.S.W. branch. In 1917
he was chairman of a meeting which de-
termined to make common cause with
the railwaymen; he was arrested and
went before Justice Pring and a jury and
was acquitted. Physically and facially
Daley is not unlike Ted Theodore.
Barrister Stanley Cassin Taylor, A.L.P.
selection to oppose McCall (U.A.P.) for
Martin, is a native of the Rylstone dis-
trict, where the Taylor and Cassin fami-
lies have been continuing their line for
nearly 100 years. The Cassin in the
name is from one of the early brewers
of Mudgee, who was later associated
with Rouse’s flour mills. The Taylors
were strong enough to send six brothers
to the Boer War with the Bushmen’s
Contingent. Taylor narrowly missed a
seat in the Assembly in 1925, Sanders
just touching him off for the fifth seat
in Ryde. He subsequently opposed Billy
Hughes in North Sydney. Taylor is 40
and a good scrapper.
J. C. McGann, head of Howard Smiths
in Sydney, succeeds C. M. McDonald,
who died earlier in the year, as chair-
Charley McDonald's Successor.
man of the N. S. Wales Northern Col-
lieries Association. McGann is a busy
man, highly capable in negotiation,
diplomatic, with a moderate outlook on
economic questions. In his small spare
time he is an assiduous reader —history
his particular hobby.
Robert Chapman has been feasted by
his engineering students of Adelaide
University on the completion of 50 years
on the teaching staff. He has earned
meanwhile a knighthood and the first
and, so far, the only professorship at
Adelaide in his pet subject. His son is
now Chief Engineer of S.A. Railways.
Henry B. Turner, U.A.P. elect in the
Gordon (N.S.W.) by-election, is another
young barrister to enter the political
hurly-burly. Sydney-born, he took his
B.A. in law at Sydney Uni. in 1927, and
Candidate for Gordon.
went to Cambridge, graduating there
with honors and reaching the Inner
Temple, in 1930. He returned to Sydney
in 1931 and put up his shingle. To
further his political ambitions he returned
to the University to study economics.
Gordon is having its second by-election
in the one Parliament; Turner was a
candidate when Goldfinch won the selec-
tion ballot on Bavin’s elevation to the
Bench. Turner’s Independent opponent,
S. A. D. Storey, is a nephew of the late
John Storey, shire councillor at Hornsby
and president of the Waitara U.A.P.
“El V.” on a wandering Australian:
They do wander. Take Bob Gordon, who
celebrated his 70th birthday last year. He
was born in Townsville (Q.) when the place
was in it's first decade; his father was the first
P.M. there. Brisbane Grammar School gave
him his early education, and a little military
experience in the local volunteers was a pre-
liminary to a commission in the Gordons, with
whom he fought in the Tirah campaign. He
rushed to S’Africa with the Ist Queenslanders,
but transferred back to the Gordons to take
command of their mounted infantry company.
He came out of the scrap with a D.S.G. and
six clasps to his medal. The outbreak of the
Great War saw him in command of the North
Rhodesian Rifles and later the Rhodesian Scouts
in German West Africa. Bulawayo has been
his headquarters since, and he popped up the
other day as District Commissioner of the
Matabele Land Scouts when his followers staged
a dinner to celebrate the fact that he had
been awarded a Silver Acorn, one of Baden-
Powell’s highest awards.
Two of the Apple Island’s oldest soli-
citors went out on the same day. Wil-
liam Alexander Finlay, of Hobart, was
83 and the oldest practising solicitor
registered in the Supreme Court. Walter
Croft, of Launceston, had been an in-
valid for some years, but had continued
to practise. Finlay was admitted to the
Bar in 1878 and Croft in 1881.
Prince Alfred’s College at Adelaide
had present at a recent celebration 23
old scholars who attended there 60 years
ago or more. Three of them were of
the foundation year, 1869, and from
Sydney came messages from two more
of these, Rev. J. C. Hill and Dr. J. T.
Mitchell. F. Johnson, of Charters
Towers (Q.), is another.


X"'..
■
mKm
“BOUGH
Golf was life to McT&vish. As a club professional
it was also his living. The open air and quiet
exercise gave him an enviable chance of keeping fit.
And yet something seemed to go wrong he couldn't
understand why. .
y-/ U
Thats the third time McTavish
has foozled his drive today-
wonder what’s put him off? /
C>
r-
,rp,
&
f
3>
V!
Sliced into the
rough at the 5 th f|g|l§ *
Probably that
annoyed him. He'S
not been up to his Y$<Qt
usual form lately.
I—Cl—T
How do you feel about
the championship, Mac-
full of confidence, eh ?
. iVi
Frankly, Doctor, A'm ofr
ma game these three
weeks past. Dinna ken
for why-but things
just rattle me-feel
tired-done up even
when I start the day.
I I
I'll awa' to bed early
the night. Christina/ Just
a sup o'Horlicks. as yon
Doctor told me. and up
I'll gang !
w
mm*
holed !
We l '
r rm
/
m
!>
V-*
;?SS£
S* ■*
11.
* ' \
THE CHAMPIONSHIP
Oh—pretty,
Mac, pretty >
4
Young feller seems a bit
narked, MrMcTavish
didn't half cuss one of my
caddies. Been treading on
his corns? -
■A
>AvW
ft
Jt
VVs
Ocn, he's just 1
r IRabbit No. I / A'm
fair sick o' teaching
yon club rabbits-
\ they're driving
'Wm. me daf tj
V,
m
m
'A
u.
9
5s
2Sfi
sut
S 2
J'
'//
m
C&3B8
i*
«!*«»»
m
m*
Look here Mac.
your hearts using
Jp energy even when
you're asleep-your
lungs, too. Your trouble
is-youVe not replacing
this energy, so you
wake tired. Athletes
call it stateness’ but its
often Night Starvation.
If I were you...
r
Glad to see old
zk
w
Mac's getting back
into his old form.
into his old form.
He was round in
70 yesterday.
/
w
-IV
till
# Did he. by Jove'
I'm backing him for
the championship.
FOUR MONTHS LATER
When you find that, for no apparent reason, you wake up
in the mornings tired and listless, unfit for any strenuous
effort, the real cause is nearly always "Night Starvation.”
Even while you sleep, your body is burning up energy.
Unless this is replaced as it is used, you naturally wake
up tired and unrefre'shed "Night Starved.”
Horlick’s regularly at bedtime guards
against "Night Starvation,” by replacing
the burnt-up energy while you sleep.
You wake with new reserves of
strength and vitality. Horlick’s has an
intriguing taste, too.
Prices from 1 / 6—economy size,
2/9. The Horlick’s Mixer, 1/-.
34H7.
HQ R LICK’*,
Impute pood
fck WHitun i** 1
HORLICK’S BUILDS SOLI
FOUNDATIONS TO CHILDREN'S HEALTH
ft


ABORIGINALITIES
BEENLEIGH RUM MINE TINK IT BEST
“R.W.D.”: Skipper was setting out on
a six-mile row to town for provisions,
when a providential steam-launch came
panting along, and he decided to invite
himself to a free passage for self and
boat. Manoeuvring his craft alongside,
he stepped aboard the stern of the
launch, but forgot to take his painter
with him. Seeing his boat dropping
astern, with great presence of mind he
peeled off his clothes and dived to the
rescue. He reboarded his own vessel
without difficulty, then, with dawning
dismay, watched his clothes being borne
off up-river on the launch. Skipper,
arrayed in weeds like a river god, crept
furtively homeward for more raiment,
cursing heart-brokenly with every step.
“Boongie”: Bill put the tied-up sugar-
bag down. It seemed to move slightly.
Bill’s wife, urged by curiosity, felt the
bag. Her hand closed on something of
elongated resilience which moved as she
squeezed it. From the bag came a terri-
fying hiss. It cost 2s. in brandy to restore
her to a condition in which she could see
for herself that they were bicycle tubes.
* * * *
“Mallam”: At our vineyard the refuse
from the presses was dumped in a small
paddock where the cows could get at
it. The hot sun fermented the stuff, and
after a blowout on it even our oldest
cow skipped about the place with a
twinkle in her eye. We were never sure
whether there was any “hang-over,” but
occasionally they seemed a little sour in
the mornings. This did not apply to the
milk, which always improved in quan-
tity and quality while the vintage lasted.
>l’ ❖
“Dohori”: That yarn about the cocky
who impersonated a parson to marry two
of his hands (B. 21/7/’37) recalls a long-
ago exploit of my old Papuan pal Slip-
pery Dick. During his activities in the
Western Gulf and Lower Fly he noticed
that the L.M.S. encouraged the natives
to make copra, which was collected by
the mission schooner periodically for
“The Lord’s” use. Dick started out a
fortnight or so before the mission craft
was due to make its trip. Arrayed in a
long white nightie, with a flowing false
beard and a huge book, he announced
at each village that he was the Creator
Himself, who this time had come in per-
son to collect His dues. The darkies
came at it like mugs to the three-card
trick, and by the time the mission
tumbled Dick was selling its copra to
a trader in the Dutch Arus.
* * * *
“Joseph”: "Pavlov,” who proved that
a dog’s mouth will water at the sound of
a bell associated with food, would have
been saved a lot of trouble experiment-
ing with the conditioned reflex if he had
known Jerry, our three-legged canine help
at Forbes. Whenever the faithful hound
heard a knife being sharpened in the
kitchen he would tear off, separate a
sheep from the flock and drive it into
the killing paddock, standing guard there
until relieved. He spent a day, from
early morning until late at night, on
several occasions before we discovered
the explanation of his absence from the
homestead.
* * 4= =!=
“Komediak”: “Peter Prospect’s” sug-
gestion (B. 21/7/’37) that Australia
should imitate the U.S.A. and limit the
number of cartridges in repeating shot-
guns is belated. A restriction to two
cartridges has been in force in Victoria
since 1928, and since 1926 the same State
“No, dear , mumsie wants to go this Way."
has prohibited the hunting of ducks, etc.,
by means of aeroplanes and spotlights.
As for the suggestion that decoy ducks
be forbidden, these lures are frequently
the ducks’ best friends. Last year at
Sperm Whale Head (Gippsland Lakes)
one of our party sighted a decoy and
blazed away with such gusto that every
duck in the neighborhood was scared
into the adjacent sanctuary,
* * * *
“East Cape”: Nothing surprising in
the fact that many Papuan songs are
meaningless to vocalists who sing them
(B. 14/7/’37). There are so many en-
tirely differing Papuan languages that it
is quite probable singers from other
tribes memorise them without under-
standing the meaning, just as the aver-
age Australian singing in Italian does.
Two or three years ago I heard the Walla-
bies, just returned from South Africa,
singing the Afrikaans ballad “Sarie
Marais,” but not one could translate it
for me.
# * * *
“Varanus”: A porcupine may be hot
stuff at shifting pebbles and bits of
gibbers; when it comes to man-sized
jobs in weight-lifting the purinthy is out
on his own. I’ve seen that outsize in
goannas where he lived in the Toko
Ranges and about the head of the Mulli-
gan River (N.Q.). Seven feet or more
in length—more like a croc, than a go.—
he makes a cave in the ground big
enough to hold a meeting of dragons.
I've seen rocks that wouldn’t fit in a ton
dray which the purinthy had levered out
from his hole in the ground and had
rolled 20 to 30 feet from his front door.
When Pa Purinthy is on the job, with his
hair standing on end and with sweat in
his eye, I prefer not to be present, except
on a good horse.
“Badak”: “Grumpy’s” sermon on
dugongs and their manner of defeating
sharks by letting the fishy customer chew
the thick skin of their backs until they
are fed up (B. 21/7/’37) is a splendid
effort of the imagination. A dried
dugong-skin is tough enough, but when
the dugong is wearing it it is easily pene-
trated even by the wooden-bladed spears
Binghi uses for capturing the sea-cow.
The shark is a deadly enemy of the ceta-
cean, especially as a cradle-snatcher, and
mother dugong has an anxious time while
the nipper is young and helpless. As
for the turtle, he is a favorite plat on
the shark menu, as many a post-mortern
has shown.
ij: # ♦
“Putfinus”: “Kor-ee-yah, kor-ee-yah”
came ringing up the cliff face to-day, and
a flock of 14 yellow-tailed black cockatoos
sailed into the timber patch at its edge,
there to tear ravenously at a tattered old
stringybark for grubs. Bush lore has it
that each one of them means a wet day
in the near future' It does not check
up against accurate observation, but their
rare visits to our locality are invariably
followed by rain, and this afternoon the
skies are clouding up ominously. For
all their size and funereal pomp, they
are timid among the feathered tribes —
a black fantail hunted two of them from
a limb which he fancied as an observa-
tion station. As I watched him, a blue-
grey shadow slipped swiftly overhead
on wide, graceful wings. It was a grey
falcon, another rare visitor to coastal
South Queensland, a fierce, beautiful cor-
sair, ruthless and bloodthirsty devourer
of all plump little birds who play about
in the open. The fantail fled.
* ❖ *
“Bull-ant Bill”: Show exhibitions of
axe-work from springboards are excit-
ing to city folk, but the genuine scrub-
felling is more thrilling. Instead of the
three boards used in exhibitions the
scrub-feller uses only one; the object
of it, to get him up clear of swelled butts
or buttress roots. It is of light, strong
wood, soft, to enable boot-nails to take
a grip, with a V-shaped steel shoe bolted
to one end. A parallel-sided hole is cut
waist-high, the board pushed in till its
sharp flange grips, and a second hole cut
from it about 4ft. up. The axe is driven
firmly into the tree as a handgrip, a boot-
toe inserted in the first notch takes the
axeman’s weight, the board is pulled out
and inserted in the upper notch, and
the process (called a “lift”) repeated until
the required height is reached. For a
bet, more than 60ft. has been reached
in this way, but about 20ft. is the usual
working maximum.
$ * * *
“Billy See”: That kelpie bitch which
wandered from station to station seeking
a lost owner (B. 7/7/’37) must have been
very exceptional. My experience is that
a dog’s memory for a departed master
does not run to even a year (and Byron
in “Childe Harold” supports me). I
once left behind in the best of care a
very intelligent Irish terrier. When I
returned a year later he failed to recog-
nise me. On my calling to him unex-
pectedly he remembered the voice and
came, but when he saw who the caller
was, to him a stranger, he turned and ran
away howling as if he had seen a ghost.
$ $ $ #
“Quork”: The widowed frog, late resi-
dent of Yankeeland (B. 14/ 7 / ’37), should
be able to find a suitable mate at Orange
(N.S.W.). Asa sideline an English tex-
tile employee commenced frog-farming
in that town some years back. Growth
has been phenomenal, some of the
croakers weighing up to 41b.—even out-
doing those produced by Uncle Sam.
But the success of the venture is in
doubt, the Australian remaining obsti-
nately finicky about gnashing his teeth
into a junk of frog beef.
* * * *
“Golden Mile”: If I’m not too late
with this ancient ridge and furrow busi-
ness. Any traveller from Perth to Cool-
gardie who knows the old pads can still
see the wheel ruts carved deep by the
wagons of the rush of the 'nineties. In
some places the hard packed rut stands
above the country, the surrounding earth
having been washed away by the rains
and floods of 40-odd years.
* * * *
“Curate’s Egg”: Torres Strait Binghi
has his equivalent of Cowes in the yearly
model cutter and lugger regatta held at
Coconut Island. Adept miniature crafts-
men to a man, each sable
shipwright is willing to
back his fancy, and on the
day of the race, there’s
large-scale wagering in
flour, pigs, tins of Cap-
stan and rope stick
tobacco. Before the mis-
sionary came to these
parts stakes used to be
marriageable maidens.
* * *
“Bogaduck”: Two of
the Eyre Peninsula (S.A.)
beekeepers whose troubles
with ants I mentioned in
a Bulletin par. run 900
colonies of bees between
them, which are shifted
around the district each
season to follow the
honey-flows. The apiarists
thank Aboites who rushed
to their rescue, but regard
all their suggestions as
impracticable. For in-
stance, “Terry Firmer’s”
scheme (B. 7/7/’37) would
require 500 tanned rabbit-
skins alone —cost £4O at
present skin prices. Only
those who have seen the
ants properly on the job
can realise what a serious
pest they are. They ignore
poisoned baits and eat
only the bees or their
brood. By entering the hive
in a body and building
nests of sticks and leaves
among the combs, they don't give the
bees a chance to fight back. Only con-
stant raking out of their nests, killing
them with boiling water as soon as
they’re removed from the hive, and fre-
quently ploughing the ground around
each apiary with a tractor can keep
them f r om wiping out every hive.
* * * *
“Dacelo”: Well, there’s one inhabi-
tant of the Otway ranges (Vic.) who
swears by boiled wombat —as a cure for
boils! Out on a timber-cutting job he
informed the boss that he was unable to
stir from his bunk owing to a “crook
attack of boils.” An examination re-
vealed none, but as he insisted they were
“on the inside of his stummick” the
scrutiny wasn’t of much help. When
the boss suggested that wombat boiled
with onions was a sure cure the victim’s
condition improved considerably. The
boss insisted, however, and after two
spoonfuls the invalid was legging it
towards the timber, axe in hand, com-
pletely cured.
* * * *
“Colonel Bungstarter”: To the long
list of persons shot by animals is added
another from New England (N.S.W.). A
shooter downed a ! roo, and as he bent
over it the animal kicked out. Picking
up his rifle, he was about to administer
the quietus when it kicked again, caught
the trigger and shot him through the
wrist. A year or so ago a Darling Downs
(Q.) man was shot dead in a sulky by
his dog, a paw catching the trigger ot
his rifle. One of the queerest of such
cases was that of a Maori who was badly
damaged by his own harpoon-gun when
the whale which he was after rose under
the boat and capsized it, firing the
weapon in the process.
A GAME FOR MUGS.
We’re at Peak Hill in ’ninety-nine when the
Boer War breaks out,
And none of us has much idea of what it s
all about.
But Bill, me mate, gets full of fight and wants
to have a bit,
And nags at me to go with him and have a
crack at it.
But l says, “Not for mine; let those who
start it see it through.
What’s poor old Kruger done to me, or what s
he done to you?”
I argued with him day and night, and I was,
right, I know, , ~
But when they called for volunteers he kidded
me to go.
They didn’t ask a man to stay for the duration
then,
And in a year or little more we’re both at
home again;
From which time on one thing there was on
which we could agree:
That soldiering was not the game it was
cracked up to be.
We’re out from Cue when word arrives a
bigger war’s a cert.,
And I says, “Well, here’s one who isn’t going
to get hurt.”
But Bill, me mate, is not so sure; he reckons
that it might
Be pretty hard for any man to keep out of
this fight.
And Bill was right; the sapper’s job gave both
of us a chance,
And ’tisn’t long before they’ve got us digging
holes in France.
We put a lot of France in bags before the
game was through,
And it’s a darned long time before we’re back
again in Cue.
But Bill and me are both agreed, and like to
have it known,
That those who start another war can have
it on their own.
So if you hear us arguing when you’re around
the fiat,
Then you can bet your bottom bob it isn’t
upon that.
There’s lots of time for argument now things
are pretty slack.
And old Bill goes it hot and strong, and he
gets plenty back.
You’d sometimes think, to hear him talk, that
his best days are gone,
But there’s one thing we cannot raise an
argument upon.
That war is just a game for mugs we solemnly
agree.
And then I sneak a look at Bill —to find him
watching me.
W.A.
OSCAR WALLERS.


BUSH WEATHER PROPHETS.
A stormbird screams his raucous warning
From a rustling cabbage-palm;
Ants have been busy all the morning
Moving eggs from threatened harm;
A flock of currawangs are crying
In the scrub beside the creek-
Swallows close to earth are flying—
I’ll bet it rains within the week.
A frog crouched in a hollow railing
Croaks a rusty note of hope;
Last night I heard the curlews wailing
Over on the bloodwood slope.
The old man’s groaning of “rheumatics,”
The salt is getting damp again,
The radio is yelping statics —
Take it from me, we’ll get some rain.
N.S.W. R. W. D.
* * * *
“Salmon Gums”: Settlers on the Swan
River (W.A.) don’t have, to depend on
barometers, corns or rheumatism to fore-
tell rain. The district being just north
of the Roaring Forties the prevailing
winds have a northerly trend, and an
approaching storm rolls the ocean down
the coast to the bay where Rottnest,
Garden and Penguin islands form a
wedge to drive it into the harbor. Two
moles built out from the harbor increase
the elfect, and the river rises along 30
miles of its course 12 to 24 hours before
a storm,
* * * *
“Mulga Jim”: Over the fire markets
came up for discussion. With one cove,
seemingly, things were crook. Agents?
If you took in sheep they beat you for a
penny a head. And if you took in
cattle they were just as like to rook you
for a bob a head on them, too. Bill piped
in with some honest sympathy: “Just
as well,” said Bill, “you ain’t handling
elephants.”
* * * 3:
“Blooded”: It’s hard to say just how
much brain the fox possesses. Recently
the Perth Hunt Club raised a fox in-
stead of the usual brush kangaroo. With
a quarry worthy of their spirit the
hounds went for the lick of their lives,
chasing Reynard over miles of country,
until, the chase getting too hot, he killed
his scent by dodging through a herd of
cows. How many humans, hunted for
their lives in similar circumstances,
would have thought of a trick like that?
Yet any English farmer will tell you that
it is a common fox trick in the Old
Country.
* * * *
“Wandi”: A marvel of bird life is the
young scrub turkey, which is indepen-
dent from the moment it is hatched.
When it breaks from the shell deep in
the huge natural incubator formed of
decaying leaves and earth in the jungle,
it makes its own way out, and, being
strong and fully feathered, can run, fly
and fend for itself straightway—the
only bird in the world that can do so.
Though the parents do a prodigious
amount of work in building the mounds
"Hilda, I positively insist on doing it my own Way."
and caring for them till the incubation
is about complete, they take no notice
of the chicks nor the chicks of them.
* * * *
“N. Rivers”: A ship of the road that
recently passed through Maclean
(N.S.W.) was unique. Mounted on two
disk plough wheels, an old box had two
long shafts attached. The harness con-
sisted chiefly of motor-tyre and string,
and thereby Dobbin was tied on. On
the animal bags were piled, and on top
of the bags sat the owner. Very tall, he
had a beard to match and smoked a
pipe. His belongings (except the horse)
were in the receptacle astern. As he
passed through he attracted a lot of
attention, but returned none of it.
* * * *
“Hanko”: Why do swagmen shy clear
of fettling gangs? The wherefore of it
has always been a puzzle to me, especi-
ally as most “bucks” would be good
“Y'll have I take y'r parcels off th ’ seal, mum."
nips for tobacco and a handout from
their always loaded tucker-boxes. But
no, the dinky-di bagman will invariably
give fettlers a miss, and even when
“sleeper-walking” he will detour to avoid
them. I’ve worked in many fettling out-
fits over a wide territory, yet never once
struck a fettler with a grudge against the
blanket-humping fraternity. Which
makes it look darn one-sided.
**, * *
“Murrungurry”: The magic death-
bone still operates in the North, even
among blacks who have long been asso-
ciated with white communities. The
latest victim is Hector, who helped in
finding the German airmen, Bertram and
Klausmann, and was reported to have
run for 37 hours to obtain help. Also,
not long ago a black-tracker, while riding
with police in search of some dusky law-
breakers, discovered that one of the tribe
had pointed the bone at him. Despite
all efforts of his white mates he wilted
and died.
* * * *
“Hayband”: “Strand” (B. 21/7/’37)
casts aspersions on my statement that
stockwhips are exclusively hand-made.
“Strand” must be confusing a stockwhip
with a riding-crop. In Brisbane a
machine was made which fashioned the
shorter implement; but the true stock-
whip is manufactured to-day, as years ago
—by hand.
* * * #
“McAroni”: Cannot understand why
Australian pines are held so cheaply in
the furniture trade. Light, durable and
easily worked, they present a variety and
shading of grain that are not surpassed by
many of the expensive timbers. I have
made furniture from ordinary “white”
pine and veneer of the same wood which,
after a few coats of copal varnish, showed
a finish at least equal to American
maple. The beautiful grain of silky oak
has long been recognised by cabinet-
makers, but its possibilities are often
ruined by wrong treatment. Cut at the
right angle, lightly polished and copal-
varnished, it shines with the lustre and
variety of shot-silk.
* * * *
“Sheafstack”: If Teddie Fisher is cor-
rect, then on his Coboco property near
Dubbo (N.S.W.) there is a horse old
enough to have served in the Boer War.
Teddie produced this 39-year-old animal
to refute a claim that Mudgee’s Old
Roaney is the oldest horse in N.S.W.
* * * *
“Naturalist”: “Atrax” may banish his
doubts as to the kookaburra’s being a
snake-killer (B. 21/7/’37). The boister-
ous one both kills and eats snakes, but
he restricts operations to those of a size
he can handle. He will collect and
gobble as many slain young snakes as
his tuckerbag will hold. I’ve known him
to take more than a day to pack away a
3ft. 6in. green tree-snake killed and
thrown aside on a farm. Tales about
his killing snakes by dropping them from
a height are all moonshine. Jack kills a
wriggler as a dog does —by cracking it
like a whip.
* * * *
“Moe”: It isn’t always the experienced
man who comes out on top in an emer-
gency. Seven timber-workers were
trapped by bushfire at a Gippsland
sawmill. Five of them, all experienced
timber hands, were burned to death. The
two survivors were young Italians new
to the game. They took shelter behind
the trunk of a huge gum, and refused to
budge from it even when its top hamper
caught fire.
* =:< * *
“Finny”: A few months ago millions
of cray died at Simonstown, the South
African naval base, for no discovered
reason. They swam with heads out of
water and mouths open, as if gasping for
breath. Natives who could not be pre-
vented from eating the easy catch came
to no harm. An explanation put for-
ward was that seismic disturbances had
impregnated the water with matter
inimical to fish life; but nothing out of
the ordinary in that line had been
recorded. Recently there was another
piscatorial tragedy, the eastern shore of
Dirk Hartog Island (W.A.) having been
littered with finny corpses over a dis-
tance of 12 miles. In some places the
pile of dead was 3ft. deep. One expla-
nation was “a cold set from the Antarc-
tic.” The sudden demise on a large
scale of fish in two widely-separated
places seems to call for more reasoned
and connected explanations than those
so far advanced,
* * * *
“Puffinus”: Landing on some of the
uninhabited Barrier Reef islets, it is curi-
ous to hear a lusty “cock-a-doodle-doo”
ring out from the ' crob s above , he shrUl
cr j es 0 f seabirds. Left there by would-
be settlers, they have all, whatever the
original breed, reverted to the primal
Indian jungle type, a strong-flying, slim
bird, something like the black-breasted
game of to-day. Many nest well up from
the ground in the thick jungle growth.
They do not have to face the dingo or
fox, which make short work of fowls
in the mainland bush, but cats are likely
to clean them up eventually. Some of
the wild descendants of former house
pussies in these parts have grown to be
huge beasts, sufficiently powerful and
fierce to be dangerous to an unarmed
man, and they are powerful swimmers
as well. I have seen one of them cross
a channel a quarter of a mile wide, with
a two-knot current running.
*** * *
“Baldy”: Melbourne’s Board of
Works has embarked on a new venture
for its Werribee sewage area by planting
900 willow cuttings for a “cricket-bat
farm.” The scheme should pay, for bats
are already made in Australia from
willows grown at Daylesford (Vic.) by
Jim Crockett, son of umpire Bob
Crockett, and in Tasmania. Trees for
bat blades may realise 10s. a cubic foot,
and are very fast growing, reaching a
height of 40 feet in 15 years. The Euro-
pean willow (Salix cazrulea) is the best
species, and the white willow (S. alba )
the next best —both are quite different
from the weeping willow (5. babylonicd).
They owe their value to their lightness
and to the fact that they only dent, in-
stead of splitting, when struck. In short,
willow is the only wood for the job.
* * * *
“Spadger”: What is the objection
against the sparrow, about the introduc-
tion of which W.A. has been in hysterics
lately? Has the spadg no virtues as an
insect-eater? In many areas W.A. liter-
ally' crawls with fruit-fly ; the raising of
any sort of fruit, from lemons to grapes,
rapidly becoming impossible. Any sort
of bird that would thin out either the
adult fly on the wing or the larvse in the
fruit should be welcomed.
* * * *
“C.G.C.C.”: The Cape. York (Q.) abos.
have their own method of measuring
the height of a tree. Binghi walks from
the base of the tree to a point where,
on turning his back towards it and put-
ting his head between his legs, he can
just see the top. The distance from that
spot to the base of the tree is the height
of it. Their calculations are remarkably
accurate, too.
* # * *
“Globe T.”: Tassie’s Fisheries Com-
missioners are having a tough spin with
poachers. The Speck’s trout fishing has
been declining steadily, and difficulty is
being experienced in securing sufficient
ova for stocking purposes. The biggest
menace is trappers working the streams
up which the trout “run” in winter. At
present it is impossible to patrol all
streams, but unless drastic measures are
soon taken the Speck will have to drop
trout fishing from its list of tourist
attractions.


The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Company, Limited
Castlereagh Street and Martin Place,
SYDNEY.
Founded 1886.
The M.L.C. has money to lend on
first-class securities at lowest current
rates of interest.
APPLICATIONS INVITED.
ASSETS EXCEED £25,000,000
ANNUAL INCOME EXCEEDS
£3,500,000
Arthur Eedy, C.8.E.,
Managing Director.
W. J. Bloomfield, 8.A., LL.B.,
Joint Managing Director.
ADAMS’ (TATTERSALL’S) HOTEL
259 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 484 GEORGE STREET.
Rooms, 6/- and 8/- per day; Breakfast, Table d’Hote or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE PUBLIC DINING R. OOMS.
Lunch from 12 noon (Sunday, 12.45 p.m.), Din ner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday, o.ia p.m.).
Tables or Seats may be reserved by ’Phone. M 4601.
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1572..
Head Office: Ocean House, 32 Martin Place, Sydney
Invested Funds exceed £500,000.
All classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
VICTORIAN BRANCH: Temple Court, 422-24 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH: Primary Building, Creek & Adelaide Sts., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. G. BROWN, General Manager
SEND YOUR
ENQUIRIES FOR
MINING MACHINERY
STAMP BATTERIES
CONCENTRATORS
MAGNETIC SEPARATORS
AMALGAMATING TABLES
WATER FILTERS
EVERLASTING VALVES
ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT
MOTORS AND SWITCHGEAR
GARBAGE DESTRUCTORS
ALL CLASSES OF TOOLS.
GUTHRIDGE Pty. Limited,
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
Sydney.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Meggitt, Ltd.
f Dividends —■\
Prof;* net.
May, Profit. Id p.c. Deficit.
1927.. 30,115 4000 6i p.c. = 20,461 99,693
1928.. 30,027 4000 H„ „ 24,552 98.218
1929.. 31,385 4000 .7*,. „ 24,552 95,38 a
1930.. 31,628 4000 6J „ „ 22,506 90,263
1931.. 617 4000 15 „ „ 6.138 99,784
1932.. 7,623 3400 2i „ „ 8,184 103,745
1933.. 25,968 3100 5 „ „ 16.368 97.24 a
1934.. 29,078 3100 5 „ .. 16.56& 87,63 a
1935.. 30,354 3100 5 , „ 16,368 <6,74J
1936.. 43,479 3400 8j „ „ 27,826 64,496
1937.. 45.020 4000 10 „ „ 32,730 56,212
* Subject to N.S.W. Interest Reduction Act from
October 1, .1931.
Though slump upset the programme, the
figures now reflect results of the man-
agement’s long-sighted policy and its
practical care for detail. With factories
at Sydney, Melbourne and Port Adel-
aide, the co. is the largest manufacturer
of linseed cake and oil in Australia. One
difficulty had been to find a market for
the oil, a ton of which results from every
two tons of cake produced. It was partly
to overcome this trouble that chairman
Phillips induced Michael Nairn and Co.,
the Scottish lino, people, to set up here
about nine years ago, and arranged with
Blundell Spence and Co., of Hull (Eng.),
to use its trade-marks. Another
trouble, which bit deeply into the ’3l and
’32 figures, was fluctuations in the ex-
change value of currencies—the co. buys
its raw material (linseed) mainly from
India and South America. Meanwhile,
the management turned its attention to
the dairying districts, where the demand
for linseed cake, which enriches the
supply of milk and butterfats, has con-
tinued to expand. Because of this,
steadier exchange, smaller fluctuations in
the price of linseed, recovery in the
pastoral and paint industries, and the
progress of the lino, business, the co.
has made splendid progress of recent
years, and the selling price of its pro-
ducts has been reduced.
During the 12 months covered by the
latest accounts, turnover in .both the oil
and cake sections of the business con-
tinued to improve. After setting aside
£9431 for depreciation and providing for
the next tax bill when it arrives, net earn-
ings were £1541 better at £45,020. For
the first time since 1931 the prefs., which
are subject to the N. S. Wales Interest
Reduction Act, were handed their full
contract rate (10 p.c. = £4000), and enough
remained to show 12.5 p.c. on the
£327,369 of ord. capital. The div. was
lifted from p.c. to 10 p.c., which is the
best rate the ords. have received since
the reconstruction in 1920. The £8284
of the year’s net earnings that remained
in the business reduced the amount of
capital unrepresented by tangibles to
£56,212— goodwill (£115,748) is not
treated as an asset herein.
Balance-sheet movements suggest pre-
paration for still larger trading:
, 1928. 1931. 1936. 1937.
Paid capital.. £367,369 £367,369 £367,369 £367,369
Liabilities .. 44,419 61,113 142,076 195,810'
Premises and
plant . . 158,733 162.717 165,744 183,172
Stocks . . 86,257 113,066 140.558 190,049
Book debts . . 58,314 43,178 62,251 62,388
Cash, etc. . . 24,543 17,875 132,626 134,640
The growth of £54,796 in drafts for
linseed shipments (£166,198) and of
£49,491 in stocks is due to the arrival
of a shipment of linseed just before
the books closed ; the price of seed has
lately been at a comparatively low
figure. There was little change in the
amount coming to sundry creditors
(£30,613). The book value of plant
(£100,887) increased by £9671, and free-
holds, etc. (£82,285), by £7757. The cash
holding figures at £56,076, and invest-
ments, mostly Consols, at £78,563. The
more or less liquid surplus (£191,267) was
only £2092 lighter, despite the outlay on
fixed assets.
The £367,369 of paid capital is in
20,000 first and a like number of second
10 p.c. cum. prefs. and 369,182 ords.,
of which 313,431 are fully paid and the
balance paid to ss. each. There is no-
thing to suggest that the contribs. are
likely to be asked for any more at an
early date. At 345., as against 31s. a
couple of months ago, the f.-p. ords.
return 5.8 p.c. and the contribs. at Bs.
lOd. yield 5.5 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis.
The prefs. seldom come into the market.
The net tangible cover per pound of paid-
up capital is £l5 11s. Id. firsts, £l4
11s. Id. seconds and 16s. 6d. ords.
Mercantile Mutual Insurance Co.
Added Capital
Net To Re- and Re-
Jiuie, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
1927.. 51,012 10 p.c. = 33,375 17,637 549,705
1928.. 42,214 10 „ ~ 33,375 8,839 558.544
New capital, £44,000 .. .. 602.544
Share premium, £ll,OOO .. .. 613,544
1929.. 47,935 10 p.c. = 40,000 7,935 621,479
1930.. 39,758 10 „ „ 40,000 621,237
Loss.
1931.. 4,053 3 „ „ 12,000 605,184
. Profit.
1932.. 12,795 3 „ „ 12,000 795 605.979
1933.. 19.315 4 „ ~16.000 3,315 609,294
1934.. 31,738 6 „ „ 24,000 } . -„ a ... n „.>
Provident fund, £2OO O \ 5 ’ 738 (,I ' , ’° 32
1935.. 47.372 7 p.c. = 28,000 1
Provident fund, £2OOO !-13,872 628,904
Staff bonus, £3500.. )
1936. . 51,514 8 p.c. = 32,000 1
Provident fund, £2OOO 1 14,514 643,418.
Staff bonus, £3000.. )
1937.. 54,745 8 p.c. = 32,000 } 20,745 664 163
Provident fund, £2OOO j
This solidly-established Australian co.,
which has been in the fire, marine and
accident business for the last 59 years,
is stepping along nicely. On present in-
dications it looks like becoming a 10
p.c. proposition. again. Divs. averaged
a shade over 14 p.c. for the 27 years
to the close of accounts in 1930; for
the last 10 of them the average was a
wink under 10 p.c. Then came slump
and the evaporation of insurable values
and premium income, aggravated by un-
satisfactory London marine business,
which pulled the rate down to 3 p.c. in
’3l and ’32. The splendid recovery since
has been due mainly to continued im-
provement in the underwriting experi-
ence. Here withdrawal from the Lon-
don marine market and a more rigid
selection of risks have helped, and so
have the growth of merchants’ stocks,
the lengthening of payrolls, activity in
the building and other trades, and the
strengthening of capital values, interest
and rents.
During the last term, the spring in
gross premiums (£558,638) was £68,453.
Reinsurances (£282,875) were up £42,700,
leaving the growth in net premiums at
£25,752:
Net Ex- Loss Expease
Premiums. Losses, penses. Rate. Rate.
1900. . £32,658 £9,068 £18,489 27.7 p.c. 56.4 p.c.
1920.. 177,683. 67,212 94,083 37.8 ~ 52.9 ~
1928.. 389,950 211,676 160,894 54.3 „ 41.2 ~
1929.. 362,167 198,925 143,963 54.9 39.8
1930.. 362,202 194,895 157,446 53.8 ~ 43.5 ~
1931.. 297,000 191,393 138,560 64.4 ~ 46.6 ..
1932.. 243,280 130,130 122,558 53.5 .. 50.3 „
1933.. 232,712 110,573 122,917 47.5 ~ 52.8 ..
1934.. 230,060 87,192 123,211 37,9 ~ 53.5 ..
1935.. 237,374 85,963 125,437 36.2 „ 52.8 ...
1936. . 250,010 91,517 128,273 36.6 51.3 ..
1937.. 275,763 113,760 130,825 41.2 ~ 47.4 ~
Of each £lOO of net premiums, losses
made off with an extra £4 12s. (motor-
car business has been particularly un-
satisfactory) ; but the larger business was
handled at £3 18s. p.c. less cost. The
underwriting surplus (£31,178, up £958)
was 7.7 p.c. and the return from interest
and rents (£23,567, up £2272) 5.9 p.c.
on capital, making the net return from
all sources 13.6 p.c. on capital as against
12.8, 11.8, 7.9, 4.8, 3.8, a loss (£4053),
and then profits of 9.9, 11.9, 12.6 and
15.2 p.c. back to 1927. The div. was
kept at 8 p.c.
Since the close of accounts, the Under-
writers’ Association has revised the rates
for motor-car insurance, because of the
quick growth in the number of acci-
dents, and because the modern stream-
lined type of car is more expensive to
repair than the older models, which
means that the claims cost is rising with
each accident, apart from the increase in
the number of accidents. Still, the new
rates compare favorably with charges
in other parts of the world.
Now consider these figures:
1928. 1931. 1936. 1937.
Paid capital. . £333,750 £400,000 £400,000 £400,000
Sundry creditors 237,262 202,668 154,019 159,916
Freeholds, etc. 227,181 412,968 411,676 416,649
Mortgages .. 17,822 19,256 16, *3B 20,246
Public securities,
etc 459,474 319,963 316,705 337,900
Hook debts . . 80,865 67,614 50,361 56,566
Cash, etc. . . 35,153 6,051 33,957 25,718
Policy-holders are well protected. When
the books closed they could see net tan-
gibles equal to over 240 p.c. of the year’s
net premiums, whereas 150 p.c. is usually
considered adequate. Most of the year’s
surplus earnings went into Government
securities, up £21,195.
The market prices the pound shares
paid to 16s. at 325. 3d., at which figure
the return is 3.9 p.c. on an 8 p.c. div.
basis, or 4.4 p.c. on a 9 p.c. distribution.
The net tangible cover is 335. 2d. per
pound of paid capital.
Hotel Metropole, Ltd. (Sydney)
Net To Re- Re-
June, Profit;. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1927.. 18,551 16 p.c. = 15,000 3,551 23,101
Premiums on shares, £15,573 .. .. 38,674
Old plant revalued and specific reserves
(£11,299) taken in .. .. .. 49,973
1928.. 18,190 10 p.c. = 16,054 2,136 52,109
1929.. 24,002 10 „ „ 21,000 3,002 55,111
1930.. 23,944 9 „ „ 18,900 5,044 60,155
1931. . 7,771 21 „ „ 5,250 2,521 62,676
1932.. 8,805 3',, „ 6,300 2.505 65.181
1933.. 13.522 5 „ „ 10,500 3,022 68,203
1934.. 18,757 7i„ ~ 15,750 3,007 71,210
Reserves capitalised, £42,001 .-. 29,209
Unexplained addition, £750 .. 29,959
1935.. 22,152 74 p.c. =18,901 3.251 33,210
1936.. 25,143 8 „ „ 20.161 4,982 38,192
1937.. 33,496 10 „ ~25,201 8,295 46,487
The Metropole has always been a popu-
lar rendezvous for the man on the land
when he comes to the city. Its earnings,
therefore, are largely governed by con-
ditions in the primary industries. Sub-
ject to seasonal and other developments,
appearances are that the co. has got into
its stride as a 10-percenter again, with
possibilities of a bit better later on, pro-
vided costs (the management has no con-
trol over wages and taxation) don’t
rise too rapidly. For 20 years to the
close of accounts in 1929 shareholders
got a steady 10 p.c., sweetened with
£75,000 of bonus scrip and special cash
distributions totalling £67,500. About
nine years ago, just before the big break
in the markets, those on the register put
up an extra £60,000 of capital, which
brought with it £15,573 of share
premiums. The money was used to
modernise the old building and erect a
new wing, giving accommodation for an
extra 175 guests. Then slump dried up
the stream of country visitors, etc., and
the bar trade was further affected by the-
opening of the Harbor Bridge. Still, the
co. came through without showing an
empty basket, though the div. dropped
to 24 p.c. in ’3l. There has since been a
steady and persistent recovery in net
earnings, thanks to the improvement in
the grazing and farming industries, the
lengthening of city payrolls and the
management's tight hold upon outgoings.
During the 12 months covered by the
latest accounts, takings in all sections of
the business —accommodation, dining-
room and bar trade —improved. Aftei
providing for taxation and striking off
£5OOO for depreciation, the net result was
£8353 better at 13.2 p.c. on capital as
against 9.9 p.c. and 8.7 p.c. for the two
preceding terms. A couple of points
were added to the div., raising it to 10
p.c. again, or to 12 p.c. on capital as it
stood before the one-for-five gift of
about 2\ years ago.
Finances are comfortable:
1927. 1931. 1936. 1937.
Paid capital. . £190,000 £210,007 £252,010 £252,010
Liabilities .. 8,880 30,331 13,545 11,504
Fixed assets.. 164,636 311,317 296,317 291,317
■Stock. . .. 2,247 3,770 2,465 2,544
Book debts, cash,
etc 35,663 1,927 29,326 44,452
Last year book debts and cash were
strengthened by £15,126, and £2041 was
snipped off the amount coming to sundry
creditors. The improvement in the more
or less liquid surplus (£35,492) was
£17,246. The hotel and equipment have
been maintained in good order and con-
dition, and much depends upon that.
At 365. (335. a year ago) the pound
shares return 5.5 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div.
basis. Visibly, the cover is 235. Bd. in
net tangibles.
Newcastle and Hunter River Steamship Co.
To Rc — Re-
Dec., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1927.. 32,617 10 p.c. = 15,000 17,617 157,130
1928. . 21,435 10 „ „ 15,000 6,435 163,565
1929. . 20,886 10 „ „ 15,000 5,880 169,451
1930.. 9,528 74 „ ~11,250 167,729
1931.. 8,500 5 „ „ 7,500 1,060 168,789
1932.. 17,051 6 „ „ 9,000 8,051 176,840
1933.. 13,840 7 „ ~ 10,500 3,340 180,180
1934.. 28,071 8 „ ~12,000 16,071 196.251
Reserves disappear, £107,677 .. 88,574
1935.. 13,533 9 p.c. = 13,500 33 88,607
1936.. 18,196 9 „ „ 13,500 4,096 93,303
June,
1937*. 7,660 10 „ „ 7,500 160 93,403
* Six months.
It is a snug concern, which has been
carrying cargo and passengers between
Sydney and Newcastle since the end of
1891, when it was formed to weld the
interests of the old Hunter River and
Newcastle S.S. cos. The establishment
of steel and other works at Newcastle
gave earnings a nice lift, despite rail and
road competition. For the dozen years
to the close of accounts in 1929 a steady
10 p.c. was paid, sweetened with £20,000
of bonus scrip in 1920. Then slump and
the sickness in the coal trade gave earn-
ings a jolt, and the div. fell to 5 p.c. in
1931. It has since continued to climb
steadily, thanks partly to the commence-
ment of wool sales and partly to the re-
vival of industrial activity at Newcastle,
where B. H. Prop, and others in the
heavy industries are stepping along in
fine style. The only threatening cloud
in the sky at the moment is trouble in the
coal trade again. Owing to competition
from rail, road and air transport, the
board decided in January last “to gradu-
ally relinquish the co.’s passenger ser-
vice,” and ordered a new 1262-ton cargo
steamer, Mulubinba, which arrived on
June 12 and is reported to be satisfac-
tory in all respects. Meanwhile, it was
decided to alter the balancing date from
Dec. 30 to June 30.
The wide fluctuations in profits shown
in the table over the last few years are
due to movements in reserves. Un-
explained additions thereto amounted to
£16,037 in 1934. In the following year the
unexplained addition was not visible, be-
cause £107,677, which the board said
had been accumulated to cover depre-
ciation, was taken from the general heap
(which was £46,251 higher than paid
capital at the end of 1934) and deducted
from the book value of assets con-
cerned. During 1936 £4500 dropped
from somewhere into the reserve for
repairs and contingencies, making it
£17,000. Taking this addition into the
reckoning, the 1936 profit was £4663
better at 12.1 p.c. on capital. That was
after striking off £12,750 for deprecia-
tion.
For the six months covered by the
latest accounts, £10,199 (=£20,398 p.a.,
ac which rate the book value of the fleet
at June 30 would disappear within half a
dozen years) was allowed for deprecia-
tion. After making this deduction and
also allowing for taxation, the declared
profit was £7660, which was at the rate
of 10.2 p.c. p.a. on capital. The lift in
the div. from 9 p.c. to 10 p.c. therefore
appears to be a more comfortable matter


®ADIAtf (fug*
Whisky H
(pre-war STRENGTH) HHB
THE PERFECT
WHISKY
Over seventy years' ex-
perience has produced this
exceptional whisky. Bottled
under strict Government
supervision, at pre-war
strength, it is unique in
flavour and unvarying in
quality.
Canadian Club is on sale
throughout the World, at
the same price as standard
Scotch brands.
Write for a free attractive
Cocktail Recipe Book, to
the Agents.
19
k
■s;S£
afar
&
sS
Uto
By Appointment
Agents: John Woods & Co. Ltd., 388 Sussex St., Sydney
Distilled by Hiram Walker & Sons Ltd., Walkerville, Ontario,
Canada. Since 1858.
V
. . . Happy-go-lucky informal parties wkere
everytkxng is turmoil and you improvise grand
cocktails witkout warning . . .
. . . An d full-d ress parties wliere tke eye of
tke world is cocked appraisingly and tke cock-
tails must — aksolutely must! — be absolutely
perfect 1
. . . Parties make life wortk living, cocktails
make parties wortk giving, Vickers Gin makes
kt
tk
coc
ai
wor
ma
ing
FAMOUS SINCE. 1750
Australia’s Leading Financial Journal.
AUGUST ISSUE ON SALE NEXT SATURDAY.
THE BANKING COMMISSION:
ARE ITS RECOMMENDATIONS SOUND?
NEW ECONOMICS
OUTLOOK FOR INVESTORS
STOCKS WORTH WATCHING
PRICE 2/ - PER COPY, OR £l/2/6 PER ANNUM POSTED.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., 252 George Street, Sydney, and all States.
than declared net earnings would sug-
gest. It fitted in with market anticipa-
tions, the pound shares remaining steady
around 48s. 3d. since the beginning of
this year. The return at 48s. 3d. is 4.1
p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis. Visibly the
cover is 325. sd. in net tangibles.
Here is the position as balance-sheet
figures show it:
r— ——December June,
1933. 1935. 1936. 1937.
Capital .. £150,000 £150,000 £150,000 £150,000
Liabilities . . 9,895 16,659 19,673 15,255
Ship property 187,242 67,502 99,577 132,344
Freeholds, etc. 15,279 2,150 1,650 1,650
Plant, stores, etc. 9,287 5,296 5,209 6,394
Book debts . . 13,509 19,328 20,591 20,002
Consols, cash.
etc. . . 120,008 167,740 142,700 105,828
Chief movement during the last term was
the net addition of £32,767 to the book
value of ship property, which reflects
the purchase already referred to. Con-
sols and cash were drawn upon for
£36,872. The contraction in the more
or less liquid surplus (£110,575) was
£33,043. When the books closed share-
holders could still see over 14s. per share
invested in Consols and cash. It adds
to the attractiveness of the scrip as a
holding proposition.
Renong Consolidated Tin, Ltd.
On its main property, Renong has
25,000,000 c.y. (429 acres) of approx, j-lb.
dirt yet to turn over, giving the co. a
life, with the dredge handling a minimum
250,000 c.y. monthly, of nine years. That
excludes the Thalang (Sydney Siam) area
(15,000,000 c.y., averaging 0.71 b.), for
which the co. has been unable to obtain
a quota, and which is under option for
cash to Siamese Tin Syndicate, of Lon-
don, until August.
Second subsidiary of Burma-Malay
Tin, the co. moved off in 1927 with
£115,000 of public money, handing its
parent £65,000 (£35,000 in scrip) for a
West Siam property of 569 acres, of
which 180 comprised virgin ground, the
balance being tailings of the old Renong
co. The selected area contained 30| mil-
lion c.y. Additions of 130 acres have
been made since, apart from the Thalang
area. To help pay for the dredge, which
worked through portion of the tailings
in the initial years, £30,000 of 10 p.c.
debenture money was gathered, and then
repaid in 1933, shortly after the dredge
entered the richer virgin ground. Divs.
commenced to flow the same year, and
have continued to do so since, as the fol-
lowing table shows:
—Dividends— N
Gross Total Net Pei-
Dee., Income. Outgo. Profit. Share. Amt.
£ £ £ £,
10 „o 1 63,256 22,553 40,703 3/- 23,000
lacso | Depreciation reserve written back, £18,950.
1934 46,243 22,266 23,977 2/6 20,000
1935 41*801 21,881 19,920 2/- 16,000
1936 59,809 24,085 35,724 3/6 28,000
After paying £12,845 in taxation and
royalties, etc., ore sales last year turned
in £58,972, including £1749 surplus on
realisation of 1935 stock. Sundry revenue
contributed an extra £B3B. After strik-
ing off £782 for general depreciation,
total exes, made off with £24,085, leaving
the net result £15,804 better at £35,724,
or 4s. sd. per share. Shareholders got
3s. 6d. (£28,000) and £BOOO was sent
to general reserve (£48,000, apart from
renewal fund of £5250), leaving £22,950
to be carried forward.
Here is a snapshot of operations from
another viewpoint:
1934. 1935. 1936.
Cubic yards dug - . . 1,152,000 1,559,500 1,103,000
Recovery t. 0., tons 354.1 314.4 499.5
Av. yield per c.y., lb. 0.69 0.45 1.01
Mine costs per c.y.,
pence .. . . 3.53 2.64 4.00
Price realised t.o. £l2l/9/- £123/6/- £ll4/10/-
London average
metallic tin . . £230 £225/14/4 £204/12/8'
Last term’s better showing was due to
richer dirt —the dredge dug through new
ground (now all but worked out), as
against tailings in the previous term. The
London average price of the metal was
down and costs were up, owing to smaller
yardage and the hard, bouldery ground
encountered, none of which remains to
be treated.
As for the current term the dredge’s
path lies through wash expected to aver-
age only half the values obtained last
term. Still, quotas have been increased—
for the six months to June 30 Renong’s
was 66.5 p.c. of assessment (670 tons
t.o. p.a.), plus a 6 p.c. bonus —and average
costs should be lower, owing to the
easier nature of the ground remaining to
be worked and the fitting of two extra
jigs (making 14 primary jigs in all) to the
plant, enabling it to handle up to 300,000
c.y. monthly. For the first half of 1937
the co. recovered 348 tons t.o. from
971,000 c.y., including balance of the
rich virgin section, for a mine profit of
£41,596; 3s. per share has so far been
disbursed in divs.
At balance date leases had a book
value of £101,122, dredge £83,276, stores
£9127, sundry assets £4455. More or less
liquids, including £40,296 cash and war
loan, totalled £42,572 ; there was £4352
coming to outsiders. Capital is £160,000
•in £1 shares, valued at 455. 6d. each on
the market.
. The plant of Rabaul Electricity, Ltd.,
the little co. which supplies Rabaul with
electric light and power, came through
the, recent volcanic eruption there with
little damage. The generating plants,
materials and fuel oil suffered nothing
more serious than a coating of volcanic
mud and dust. About half of the reticu-
lation is functioning smoothly again,
but a fair amount of damage
has been done to the remainder, which
will mean loss of revenue. At June
30, 1936, paid capital was £25,158.
Reserves totalled £1757. There was
£3356 coming to outsiders, and debtors’
balances and cash amounted to £2358.
Plant, buildings, franchise, etc., figured
at £25,158, and stores at £lOO9. Share-
holders received 8 p.c. in ’34 and


Book of the Month!
THE
INCOME TAX ACTS
1936-37.
Federal and All States
(except Western Australia)
The recently-passed Federal and State Acts, aiming
at the standardisation of taxation laws, have been
collated, summarised and explained by Mr. H. Rawson
Stevenson, F.C.A. (Aust.), in one handy and com-
prehensive volume.
This volume represents the last word in service to
the taxpayer or professional man who is concerned
in the taxation of income from one or more States, as
the new legislation has made other volumes obsolete.
CLEAR COMPREHENSIVE COMPLETE
Price, £l/1/-
Order now from the publishers—
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd.,
Box 252188, G.P.0.,
Sydney.
INVENTORS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents. —A dVt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 422
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). —Advt.
* * * *
AUSTRALASIAN timberlands and plantation
valuation surveys, milling plants, certification of
shipments. L. MACINTOSH ELLIS, B.Sc. (late
Director State Forest Service, New Zealand), Consult-
ing Forest Engineer, 8 Bond Street, Sydney.— Advt.
RARE MINERALS AND METALS—Ask O. T.
LEMPRIERE & CO.' PTY., LTD., Collins House,
Melbourne, and Bowden Street, Alexandria, Sydney,
for advice regarding value and marketing of rare
minerals and metals. —Advt.
* * * *
FERRODOR (Anti-corrosive) PAINT is used on
all Railway Bridges in New South Wales! Suffi-
cient proof of its' quality. For all wooden surfaces
also. Sole Agents, William Adams & Company,
Limited, 175 Clarence Street, Sydney. — Advt.
Public Notice.
CORESTRY BONDS.—I pay up to £5 more
r per bond than other buyers for N.Z. Per-
petual Forests Bonds.—R. F. CORMACK, 440
Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUICK FACTS
f ABOUT >
CHEQUE ACCOUNTS
To pay by cheque saves time and
expense. It also avoids risk of loss
of money which you may otherwise
keep in your home or carry about
with you. Moreover, paying by
cheque stamps you as being "busi-
ness-like” in the conduct of your
affairs.
It is easy to open an account.
Ask at any branch of this Bank.
About 90% of Australian busi-
ness transactions are settled by
cheque.
RURAL BANK
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
HEAD OFFICE: MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY
Commissioners: C. R. McKerihan (President), H. Rogers, P. Kearns
12 p.c. for each of the two following
terms. Before the eruption the fully-
paid pound shares sold at 355. on the
market. The cost of renewing the dam-
aged portion of the reticulation is pretty
certain to stand in the way of a dividend
next month, but prospects of share-
holders getting back into the picture, by
next balance appear bright enough. The
rate of dividend in the near future will
partly depend upon the cost of restora-
tion.
* * * *
After penetrating 82ft. of sulphide
lode, the bore on Barrier Development’s
lease, which is on the north-east exten-
sion of the main line of lode at the
Barrier (N.S.W.) and about seven miles
from the North Co.’s workings, has gone
into ordinary country. The drill first
entered the lode at 348 ft. After touch-
ing £97 the co.’s £5 shares sold at £6B
or thereabouts in Adelaide last week-
end.
# * * *
At Bright (Vic.), where it transferred
its attentions after working out its
N.S.W. property in 1928, Adelong Gold
Estates has sufficient 2gr. to 3gr. wash
(approx. 400 acres) for at least 15 years’
dredging at present rate of working. For
the six months to April 30 last,
net earnings, after writing off £5OO for
depreciation, declined £3061 to £4892 —
poorer values and higher costs (partly
due to smaller yardage) were respon-
sible. Still, the co. is paying Is. 6d. per
share, and another 6cL is to go out on
Aug. 24, and the, management is confi-
dent of repeating last December's 6d.
bonus at the end of this year. Recent
results compare as follows:
r- Dividends—
Six Value, Costs, Net Per
Months. Yardage. c.y. c.y. Profit. Share. Amt.
d. d. & &
Apr., ’36 400,750 5.8 S.O 4103 -/6 1875
Oct., ’36 458,500 7.4 2.7 7953 l/~ 3750
Apr., ’37 428,750 0.5 3.2 4892 1/6 5625
After appropriating £5OO for land pur-
chase, £5373 is carried forward, apart
from which there is a general reserve,
invested outside, of £3OOO. At present
the dredge is laid up while sluice-boxes
and shaker are being raised and the
bucket ladder strengthened; the latter
is not expected to come in for renewal
for another three years, about the same
time as the bucket line. Application
has been made for an additional 20-acre
lease, freehold of which has been pur-
chased.
Worked continuously for 36. years,
during which silver and lead concen-
trates valued at £3,000,000 were won,
the old Magnet mines, west of Mt. Bis-
choff (Tas.), have been resurrected by
Magnet Silver Lead Mines (nominal
capital, £50,000 in ss. shares). • Faulty
treatment methods, combined with the
low prices of metals, sent the old co.
into liquidation in 1932. After that a
Government-financed syndicate was in
possession for three years, obtaining 3700
tons of concentrates, averaging 93.130 z.
silver and 56.21 p.c. lead. A big stack
of tailings, estimated to average 50oz.
silver and 34.88 p.c. ■ lead, which it is
now proposed to tackle by flotation,
should yield the new co. a nice profit in
itself. For the mine, and equipment, which
includes a hydro-eiectric plant and rail-
way, Amalgamated Gold Estates is to
receive £2500 cash and 40,000 ss. fully-
paids, of which half the cash and
10,000 shares are payable to the
liquidator of the old co. Magnet Silver
Lead will also shoulder a £lO,OOO debt to
the Government. The mine is to be
brought to early production.
* * * *
A Perth co., Mica Development, Ltd.,
has been formed to prospect the mica
deposits at Morrissey Hill and Mica King
leases, on the northern side of the Gas-
coyne and about 230 miles north-east of
Carnarvon (W.A.). The leases form por-
tion of a somewhat crescent-shaped
micaceous gneiss belt, about 50 miles
long by 15 miles wide, extending from
Pyramid Hill to within a few miles of
Mt. James. Reporting on this area in
1926, R. C. Wilson, now State mining
engineer, said: “Prospects of successful
mining on this field appear distinctly
good. The small amount of prospecting
done has proved the existence of mica
of excellent quality over a wide area,
and on the Mica King sheets 12in. by
12in. in the rough state are compara-
tively common.” The stuff occurs mostly
in the form of veins, but also as bunches,
usually encased in felspar near one of
the walls of pegmatite. The mica vein
is a dyke of very coarse granite, usually
coarse-grained pegmatite. In size and
shape it may vary from a few inches to
many feet in thickness, and from a few
rods to hundreds of yards in length. The
price varies from £6OO a ton upwards,
according to quality. No satisfactory
mineral has yet been found to take the
place of mica in the electrical trades,
and its increasing use for household elec-
trical appliances and in the radio and
automobile industries has stimulated de-
mand. For many years India, which
mines only high-grade mica, has been
the world’s chief source of supply, and
seems likely to remain so, the U.S.A. and
U.S.S.R. ranking next. The world’s larg-
est importers of mica are the U.S.A.,
U.K., Germany and France in that order.
Japan has small supplies in Korea. Dur-
ing the war lithium from lithia mica was
used by Germany instead of tin for
hardening lead, and is still being used
for that purpose.
. .. r . * i * *
On. September 25 Lancefield (W.A.)
will send out its fourth div. (Is. 3d. a
share), which will call for £62,500, mak-
ing total payments to shareholders since
the present co. resurrected the old mine
at Beria a couple of years ago £212,500.
According to published monthly returns,
the co. put through 122,858 tons (up
16,640 tons) for the year to June 30 for a
gross return of £312,545 (up £40,968),
equal to 50.85. per ton as against 46.85.
for the previous year. Working exes.
(£142,320) were approximately 1.55. lighter
at 23. H. per ton, the June figure being
21.25. per ton. That left a working
profit of £170,225, of which capital ex-
penditure took £33,628. Management
charges and the allowance for deprecia-
tion, etc., for the last term are not yet
available. Last estimate of visible ore
reserves was 330,000 tons (grade not
stated) down to No. 11 level, with a
probable 850,000 tons below that. The
head value of ore milled in 1936 was
7.Bdwt. The new 600-ton-a-day retreat-
ment plant is about to set in on the
million-ton heap of tailings. The only
serious doubt about this property is
whether in a few years the management
will be able to extract ore from the mine
without a substantial rise in costs or in-
creased capital outlay.
* X * X
A couple of years ago prospects for
Swan Bitter (W.A.) looked hopeless;
there was about £6OOO coming to out-
siders, little in the till, and only
ore in sight. Recently the outlook
changed, thanks to discovery on the
100 ft. level of the main or primary lode,
of which the shoot previously worked is
said to have been a roll-over. There are
approximately 10,000 tons of “good-
grade” ore available to the 100 ft. level,
where the ore-body has opened out to a
width of 16ft., and Bdwt. to lOdwt.
stuff is showing underfoot. Much will
depend on how the ore-body and values
behave as the mine goes down. A
cyaniding plant, capable of handling
1200 tons monthly, has been installed.
For the last quarter the co. has been
treating 6|dwt. ore and netting about
£lOOO monthly, and expects to do better.
Announcement of a “satisfactory” divi-
dend is anticipated shortly.
* X * *
Southern Cross United, operating the
old Fraser’s group of mines at Southern
Cross (W.A.), is the latest De Bernales
resurrection to start milling. In the old
days the group yielded 193,2440 z. gold
from 397,787 tons. The main lode has
been proved by outcrops and workings
for 5000 ft. along the strike, and 360 ft.
vertical, and has been stoped for 3000 ft.
of the distance down to 136 ft., below-
which little mining was done. The new
co. has sunk the main Fraser G.M. shaft
to 500 ft., further- developed old levels,
opened up new ore-bodies, now being
stoped, on two new levels, and from the
Central shaft is now examining the north
workings, where considerable additional
tonnages are expected to be proved. The
treatment plant was made by the Kal-
goorlie Foundry. The intention is first to
feed 2500 tons monthly to the mill,,
gradually lifting throughput to 4500 tons.
w * * *
Western Gold Mines (W.A.), which
took over Reedy’s Mararoa leases, Cue
(W.A.), for £lO,OOO plus 20,000 f.-p. 10s.
shares early in 1933, and in the follow-
ing September sold the property to Triton
for 200,000 paids of 10s. each, shows a
profit of £8759 for the 12 months of
1936. The 200,000 Triton shares returned
£lO,OOO in dividends. The shares at cost
appear at £31,035. Assessment for taxa-
tion has been made against the co. in
respect of the year 1933-34 amounting to
£18,791. Taxation commissioners contend
the co. had made a profit represented by
the excess of the face value of Triton
vendor shares received by it over the
total cost of the acquisition of the
Mararoa property and of work done upon
it. The co.’s appeal against the W.A.
assessment has been dismissed, and. the
directors have decided to take the matter
to the High Court.
* X X X
Edna May, Westonia (W.A.), has set
10 of its 20 head of stamps in motion.
and for a start aims at putting 1000
tons through monthly. Recovery will
be by amalgamation, a cyanide unit
to be brought into operation when addi-
tional pay-ore has been developed. In
the Deeps, Central and Consolidated
leases, 160,300 tons ore containing
90,5000 z. gold was originally estimated to
be available. To enable the principal
block of ore in the Central to be got at,
shareholders recently contributed an-
other 6d. per share. At present the co.
is driving on the 385 ft. level to cut the
Consolidated lode. For 146 ft. the foot-
wall section of the reef has shown 7dwt.
values over the full width of the drive,
the hanging wall averaging 16idwt. over
a similar distance. From ore at grass,
the co. looks for a 6dwt. extraction over
the plates.
i'fi ijc
Dundas Gold, of Adelaide, has taken
an option over an area "owned by Slater
brothers and Glendinning at Mt. jack-
son, on the Yilgarn field (W.A.). The
reef and outcrop are well defined with
a north and south strike, and values ap-
pear to be increasing at shallow depth.
The option expires on May 31, 1938.
* * * *
H. Mandelstamm, responsible for
several goldmining floats in Westralia of
recent years, is turning his attention to
base metals. At the Cue Warden’s Court
the other day, application was made on
his behalf for 10,500 acres of iron-ore
country at Wilgie. Mia, one of the largest
and purest deposits in the State. The
application was recommended.
BRTEF ANSWERS.
G.8.M.: (I) Hold; the business ought to
become more profitable as turnover develops.
(2) Doubtful whether a change of Government
would have much effect upon the business....
R.G.H.: Co. did not go to allotment, and the
money put up by applicants was returned to
them... .C.L.K.: The plan recommended was
a Federal one, which would supersede all
present State schemes, and covered unemploy-
ment only; friendly society and accident bene-
fits were not provided for... .C.H.N.: It is a
long-term speculation, and the immediate out-
look is not bright... .J.A.McD.: (1) Cannot
say; shares not quoted on 'Change. (2) Ask
the secretary of the co. if he can find a buyer.
(3) Yes. (4) You might be able to forfeit the
shares and lose the amount you have already
paid on them... .G.K.: (1) Any bank will
arrange exchange for you. Last week-end the
selling quote was 428.97 drachmas for £1 Aus-
tralian. (2) Consult Greek Consul about pur-
chase of goods J.R.R.: In the long run the
value of any currency unit is what it will buy
in its own country. Impossible io give full
explanation of exchange differences and fluctua-
tions here W.K.: Outlook not very bright.
A.W.M.: Co. has not broadcast its
figures for the last three years. Bondholders’
prospects are anything but rosy.


SMOKE-OH!
“Baby born weighing 21 pounds.”
—News item.
Stone and a half the crows!
“In New York society an up-to-date list of
bores, boors and consistent party crashers is
circulated.”
A Yahoo’s Who.
*»* *l* *f*
c naturalist says that mice are particularly
tond of music.”
They even prefer cheese that hums a
bit.
•I* *J* *l*
"The most trying woman is the one who is
aware of her own physical imperfections com-
pared with others of her sex.”— A psychologist.
“Trying” is the word—half of them
trying to take off weight, the rest try-
ing to put it on.
•5* *l*
Wrestling Union Notes.
At a specially summoned meeting held
at the Trades Hall Comrade Ivan (Chin-
cracker) Vodkavitch, the Siberian Mam-
moth, formally moved the following
resolution:
That this 3745 t. 51b. gathering emphati-
cally protests against the biased and mis-
leading report published in The Bulletin,
m which a leading member of this union
was unfairly dubbed “the man who wrestles
clean.”
Comrade Peter Zchockablok, the
Lithuanian Leopard, seconded.
Speaking to the resolution the presi-
dent, Comrade Joe Potwallapa, the
Torres Vedras Tornado, said: “Gentle-
men’ (loud and prolonged hoots). “I
beg your pardon—fellow beef. As you
all know, the member referred to is as
fine an exponent as ever kicked an
opponent out of a ring. If the writer of
this dastardly newspaper attack had made
the slightest attempt to get his facts right
he’d have come to me or our secretary;
Either of us could have told him that
this member has a record which is the
envy of the wrestling world. He has
been disqualified in two hemispheres.”
(Cheers.)
In supporting the remarks of the presi-
dent, Comrade Tony (Throttler) Philop-
penon, of Cyprus, felt it his duty to direct
attention to several instances of un-
seemly behavior in recent contests. On
two occasions that month opponents
had shaken hands before a contest began.
(Uproar.) On a third occasion the con-
test was over in less than the stipulated
eight rounds. (Cries of “Scabs !”)
The president thanked Comrade
Philoppenon for his thoughful remarks.
Handshaking and four-rounders were
perils to the profession and blots on its
fair fame. They must never get back to
the days of that foul blackleg Hacken-
schmidt, who used to pin his opponents
in a couple of minutes. Once, in a rush
of scabbery to the head, Hackenschmidt
slammed the Terrible Turk out of time
in eleven seconds. ( Cries of anger and
horror in 14 languages.) “No more of
this handshaking business,” the president
concluded —“it’s the thin end of the
wedge.”
Carried unanimously, amidst loud and
sustained applause.
The meeting concluded with the sing-
ing of the union’s theme-song: “One Is
Born Every Tick of the Clock.”
•F *F *F *F
“Girl marries prisoner to secure his release.”
His release ?
♦F *s* *F *F
“He had two minutes in which to catch his
train, but he had a drink before he left.”
— “Sun.”
Beer *with a dash.
+ 4* +
World’s Aviary.
Extinct. —Dodo, Pterodactyl.
Very sick. —Stork, Dove.
Very much alive. —Eagle, Vulture.
Q. PIDD. .
4* *F »F 4*
Any angler will go to great lengths in
relating a fishing story.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Not all Chinese officials are as urbane as
popularly supposed. In the northern provinces
particularly they take offence at nothing.”
— Recently-returned traveller.
Thorny Mandarins, with thin skins.
"Yes, I'm divorcing the brute. He's having an affair with another Woman."
“Although Russia covers one-sixth of the
entire globe it does not possess a single golf
course.”
They started one once. Ivanitch Watt-
havu, who pionered the game in Przkxptp,
took 73 and broke 14 clubs for the first
hole. He fractured his jaw swearing in
Russian. That settled it.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Gossiping is an illness,” states a doctor.
Rumortism!
4* 4* 4* 4 1
Not a Lucky Break.
“Federal agents in the U.S.A. have un-
covered the activities of a gang who specialised
in minor bone breaking so that accident victims
could get more compensation.”
The racket was exposed by Hiram Q.
Guzzelhooch, a commuter of Bird-
town (Ga.).
One night Hiram was hurrying home
after a heavy day’s commuting. Scorch-
ing around the corner of Main-street at
10 m.p.h. he hit a cow, off which his
flivver bounced, completely wrecking it.
As Hiram staggered out of the mass of
twisted tin he tripped over the choke
and fell, treading on his elbow, causing
him to bark his instep.
Hieing forthwith to Spike McGinty’s
bone-busting layout downtown, he
ordered an imitation greenstick fracture
of the left forearm and a synthetic
broken jaw. But Spike was a conscien-
tious fellow who always believed in giv-
ing good value for his money. Also, he
was feeling narked that day, as the muni-
cipal cops had just soaked him for
“extras.” So when he swung the bagful
of billiard balls he did it extra viciously.
They carted Hiram back and dumped
him as requested among his disintegrated
vehicle, and in due course he went feet
first into the accident ward.
When he left hospital two months
later Hiram made a beeline for the in-
surance co., armed with the X-ray
photos, of the real breaks he’d suffered.
But an official gently pointed out that
Hiram had allowed his policy to lapse
through failure to renew it a little over
two months before.
Maybe that’s what made Hiram turn
sour. Anyway, he blew the gaff.
Nipper.
+ + t
Every woman knows that really she
cannot wear such a crime as last year’s
hat; that she is wiser than her mother,
but only half as wise as her daughters ;
that you can learn quite a lot of in-
teresting news over a cut-and-thrust
bridge game.
4 1 + 4*
Simple Argument.
“The question whether or not a compressor
is an engine was debated for an hour. The'
Court reserved its decision on the point.”
A very grave question. It is possible,
of course, for'it to be mistaken for a
toothbrush, a chair leg, a clotheshorse
or a trouser-press. Argument might be
adduced as follows:
Mr. Horsehair {for the Smoke-
wheelers and Nut-fasteners' Union):
“My learned friend’s efforts to establish
that a compressor is not an engine are
scarcely convincing. A compressor is,
as everyone knows, that which or one
who compresses. Webster says it is a
mechanical device. Is not a device that
which is devised? My authority is Jer.
li., 2: ‘His device is against Babylon
to destroy it.’ Will my friend deny that
engines were extant in Babylonian times,
crude though they undoubtedly were?
It follows, ipso facto and mutatis
mutandis, that a compressor comes under
the category of engines.”
Mr. Mangywig {for the Joggle-spread-
ing and Winch-winding Co., Ltd.): “I
respectfully submit that a compressor
could also be taken to be an instrument
for compressing an artery. Is that a
mechanical device under the Game Pro-
tection and Fisheries Act? Robert Louis
Stevenson supports me in this conten-
tion, for he says:—
In my boyhood, for my addiction to
strange devices of sticks and strings, I
had been counted the most eccentric of the
family.
And nobody will deny that the great
romanticist knew his onions”
’Sonah: “‘Knew his onions’? Pray
what does the phrase mean, Mr. Mangy-
wig?”
Mr. M.: “I apologise, yeronner. It
is an Americanism meaning—er, mean-
ing—er, well, I suppose it means he was
a wise guy, a wake-up, a”
Sonah : “Kindly eliminate these ob-
scure vernacularisms and confine your-
self to the King’s English, Mr. Mangy-
wig. You may proceed.”
Mr. M.: “My learned friend is appar-
ently becoming confused with the words
‘device’ and ‘devise:’ To strengthen
my contention I might also quote W S
Landor, who wrote: ‘I must have in-
struments of my own device.’ Would
such a writer be guilty of confusing an
instrument with an engine? One could
blow an instrument, but whoever heard
anyone blowing an engine?”
Mr. H.: “My learned friend is hoist
with his own petard on two counts. Is
not a bass-drum an instrument? And
has my able friend ever seen a drummer
blowing up his drum? Moreover, it is
possible to blow an engine. Members
my . client’s organisation not only
‘blow’ it, but employ even stronger
epithets when using the mechanical con-
trivances which the plaintiff co. expects
its workmen to get results from. My
learned friend also refers to a com-
pressor as an instrument for compressing
an artery. Is not a main road referred
to commonly as an artery? And are not
compressors used for work on roads?
TI* S argument has more holes in it than
a colander.”
Mr. M.: “Think you’re smart, don’t
IVTr.. H. : “I appeal to yeronner. I
can’t open my mouth in this court but
what 1 am subjected to a running fire - of
„ • 3 f ,
humiliating insults from my learned
friends.”
’Sonah (mildly): “Is not the argument
becoming slightly irrelevant? Kindly
confine it to relevant facts ”
Mr. H.: “I submit that the word com-
pressor means a mechanical device or
a contrivance. To contrive is, if I know
my Webster, to form, to fabricate, to
bring about a stratagem,
Fit for treason, stratagems and spoils,
Surely my learned friend does not think
that the great Bard of Avon had never
heard of compressing!”
’Sonah: “He tried it on Anne Hatha-
way’s waist, didn’t he?” {Laughter.)
Mr. H. ( doggedly ): “A stratagem
could be interpreted as an artifice.
Macaulay has it somewhere that:
Those who were conscious of guilt em-
ployed numerous artifices for the purposes
of averting inquiry.
I contend, then, that an artificer is “one
who devises or frames a thing.”
Mr. M.: “ ’Bject, yeronner.”
’Sonah : “Objection upheld. I must
warn counsel that wild charges of cor-
ruption will not assist his cause. And 1
again express a desire for a discontinu-
ance of all these irrelevancies.”
Mr. H.: “I merely wish, yeronner, to
point out that a frame may be either a
state of mind or a movable structure,
such as is used for cucumber-growing.
Could not a compressor, then, under the
Weights and Measures Act, be a cucum-
ber frame?”
Mr. M.: “I submit that a compressor
might possibly be also a stepladder or a
blancmange, as both these could be in-
terpreted as movable structures, which
my able friend has mentioned.”
(Court adjourns. The afternoon ses-
sion will be devoted to steering the com-
pressor back through devious ways from
a blancmange or a cucumber-frame to
the original argument.)
S. W. K.
Putting the Lid on It.
‘The woman who dictates Hollywood’s hat
lashions revealed that most of her inspirations
come while she is at lunch. • Recently she hit
upon the ‘spaghetti roll’ hat while she was
eating a plate of spaghetti. The hat is made
up of strips of rolled felt, and caused a furore
in America.”
No stern dictator wields more power
than she.
Millions of women follow where she
points ;
Not theirs to question what the mode
shall be —
She’ll fashion something out of steaks
or joints.
No fruit or flowers, feathers or such
for her!
She trims a cady to a different plan
(Her ‘soup hat,” you’ll remember,
caused a stir).
Her secret’s this: she concentrates on
scran.
The gastronomic cover for the hair
Has points (her “gravy hat” made
quite a splash),
But, judging by the lids they mostly
wear,
The tucker she likes best is tripe and
hash !
BO.


Bigger Income . . .
Better Safety
yoR sECURtry
IV/TONTH by month an increasing number of people
recognise the intrinsic worth of FIRST AUSTRALIAN
UNIT TRUST CERTIFICATES for small investors. Every-
body desires safety and as large a return as possible from
an investment, and to-day these Certificates provide an
unequalled margin of security, potential capital appreciation,
plus attractive interest yield—all this for anyone who has
approx. £25 or more to invest. In one simple transaction,
investors’ money is spread over shares of the following
leading Australian Companies:—
Commercial Hank of Aust., Ltd.
The Adelaide S.S. Co., Ltd.
Tootli & Co., Ltd.
Associated Newspapers, Ltd.
A’sian Paper and Pulp Co., Ltd.
Australian Class Mftrs. Co., Ltd.
Broken Hill Proprietary Co., Ltd.
Colonial Sugar Kefiuing Co., Ltd.
David Jones, Ltd.
Drug Houses of Australia, Ltd.
Dunlop Perdriau Rubber Co., Lttl.
Rlectro. Zinc Co. of A/sia, Ltd.
General Industries, Ltd.
Goldsbrough, Mort & Co., Ltd.
Henry Jones Co-operative, Ltd.
Kandos Cement Co., Ltd.
Sargents, Ltd.
W. R. Carpenter & Co., Ltd.
Yarra Falls, Ltd.
Broken Hill South, Ltd.
A world-famous institution— Union Insurance Society of
Canton, Ltd. (Union Building, Bond Street, Sydney)—acts
as Custodian Trustees and distributes the Income twice-
yearly, on June 15 and December 15.
If you want to know more about this safe and
profitable method of investment, write for booklet
No. I to the Managers of the Trust:
AUSTRALIAN FIXED TRUSTS PTY., LTD.,
8-14 BOND STREET, SYDNEY.
TELEPHONE: 85294. BOX 4028 V.V., G.P.O.
Professions, Trades, Etc.
OPPORTUNITY for SALESMAN to
ACQUIRE Sole Rights for New South Wales
of Approved Children’s Encyclopaedias, etc.,
Overseas (British) Publications, for which there
is UNIVERSAL DEMAND.
Applicants must possess following Qualifica-
tions, and state what extent interested in ‘"Child
Welfare Work” and their education:
(1) Proved Sales organising ability, both
speciality and abstract spheres (full retails
and proof required).
(2) £3OO Cash is required for Sole Rights
in this State.
(3) Name and Address of Bankers, i
(4) Present occupation and two personal
references.
Will consider disposal of Commonwealth and
New Zealand Rights.
N.B. —Applications without name of Bankers
not considered.
Applications untii 25th August to—
McKinnon, c/.o box 252188,
G.P.O , Sydney.
Business,Rollery,Etc.
An Investor’s Market
Investors seem to be in charge of the
Australian sharemarkets at the moment.
The tide of speculation is running out,
and, whether prices are too low in some
cases or too high in others, shares
appear to have been bought for some
time now mostly with a view to holding.
The pendulum-like swing from the
depths of the depressed stock-markets in
September, 1931, to the “recovery” peak
of March, 1937, now looks like the end
of an episode. In all periods of slump
and recovery there are opportunities for
those with liquid capital to' make re-
markable. profits—out of . rejuvenated
goldmines in the first instance, Govern-
ment securities in the second, and indus-
trial shares in the third.
Gold-shares have been up and down ;
Consols finished their, leap more than
two years ago ; industrials have had a
decided levelling-off these last three
months.
Good industrial equities are more
robust and resilient than most other in-
vestments. Since gold is no longer in
free circulation in any world country,
industrials have a special attraction to
those who fear inflation. They have an-
other virtue also. The private enterprises'
which such shares represent are un-
doubtedly the most fertile source of
employment. The keeping of people in
jobs these days is the principal secret of
Government popularity anywhere, and
therefore Governments must turn a
kindly eye, however reluctantly, towards
private enterprise. Departures from such
a course usually bring forth sharp reac-
tions.
In circumstances such as these we can
look for high, but not necessarily higher,
prices for most industrial shares. Market
appreciation will depend more strictly
on trading results. Income and
measures of stability are the big factors
which oome into the reckoning now
when a stock is being valued by the
market. In the case of most leading
shares there is little more than fair in-
terest in sight for a couple of years at
least.
The course of the market for some
leading issues over the last four and a
half months is interesting:
Mch. 16. Apr. 29. July 29.
Bank of N.S.W. £37/17/6 £3B/10/- £35/5/-
National Bank .. £B/-/- £7/17/6 £7/10/-
G'brough, Mort.. 39/6 39/- 36/6
Winchcombe .. 36/6 36/6 36/-*
Adelaide Steam.. 32/6 32/6 31/3
Q'land Insurance 60/9 60/- 60/-
A. Gas “A” .. £7/3/- £7/6/- £7/9/-
Among miscellaneous industrials and
base-metal mines movements have been
wider: —
Mch. 16. Apr. 29. July 29.
Carlton Brewery 64/- 63/6 67/6
C.-Perkins .. 26/- 26/9 26/9
Tooth .. 57/- 58/3 55/6
Ass. News .. 24/3; 23/7 23/-
Aus. Glass .. 93/6 90/- 95/3
Aus. Paper .. 39/- 35/- 33/6
Aus. Cement .. 31/6 31/6 32/-
B.H. Prop. 91/3 .81/3 82/9
Burns, Philp . . 80/- 73/- 72/9
Electro. Zinc .. 66/6 57/6 58/-
Fairymead .. 39/3 37/6 35/-
G. J. Coles .. £5/6/- £5/5/- £5/11/6
Mauri Bros. .. 75/ 74/- 70/6
W. H. Soul .. 84/6 85/- 90/-
Yarra Falls .. 43/-. 42/-* 39/9*
North B.H. .. 89/3 70/9 76/-
B.H. South .. 58/- 46/9 47/9
Mt. Lyell .. 52/6 . 45/3 43/6
Commodities —
Wool, lb 18.4 d. 17.9 d.
Wheatj bushel .. 5/5 5/2 5/5
Lead, ton .. £33/-/- £24/17/6 £22/14/6
Spelter, ton .. £33/5/11 £24/10/-£22/16/3
El. copper, ton ..£72/8/11 £63/-/- £64/10/-
* Ex rights.
Readjustment is everywhere plain, and
in different classes of stocks different
movements are ' apparent. Bank shares
lifted when the gold-scare was on and
most stocks ; weakened ; they, too, are
down now. Steamship issues are firm,
as are most breweries, Aust. Glass, and
cements (giving a yield above the aver-
age) ; textiles are on the weaker side ;
B.H. South hasn’t recovered as much
as North B.H. ; Electro. Zinc, big div.
and all (yield 6 p.c.), doesn't attract
speculators; Mt. Lyell, which should
show profits of about 30 p.c. on capital
for the current term, is. lower than in
the most confused days of April last,
though copper is now steady. 8.H.P., in
spite of a profit equal to £5 9s. 6d. per-
cent. on the market valuation, is in the
doldrums.
There was a rush to Consols when
investors became puzzled with the out-
look three months ago. A reaction nas
now occurred, in spite of the healthier
banking figures just published. Yields
from active issues have shortened and
lengthened as follows over the last two
months:
June June June July July
l,p.c. 11,p.c. 25, p.c. 16,p.c. 28,p.c.
31 p.c., ’49 .. 3.90 3.83 3.80 3.80 3.83
31 p.c.,’51 ..3.78 3.78 3.75 3.80 3.79
4 p.c., ’3B . . 3.08 2.77 3.08 2.95 3.03
4 p.c.,’41 ..3.40 3.50 3.45 3.59 3.66
4 p.c.,’44 ..3.59 3.51 3.53 3.64 3.74
4 p.c.,’47 ..3.71 3.67 3.69 3.70 3.79
4 p.c.,’50 ..3.78 3.75 3.80 3.76 3.82
4 p.c., ’5l-53 3.82 3.80 3.82 3.80 3.85
4 p.c.,’51-55 3.86 3.84 3.81 3.83 3.88
4 p.c.,’51-57 3.84 3.82 3.83 3.83 3.87
4 p.c.,’51-59 3.88 3.84 3.84 3.85 3.90
4 p.c.,’51-61 3.88 3.85 3.84 3.86 3.88
Preference shares and mortgages aren’t
as popular at the moment as they were
three months ago, either. Most interest,
even if it is of a quieter nature, promises
to hang round ord. shares in the imme-
diate future.
Wool sales start at the end of this
month. The present level of prices is
something below the closing rates for
last season, but the outlook: remains
promising, and a good clip seems assured.
Wheat is still bringing the satisfactory
price of ss. sd. a bushel at ports, and
the harvest for the season just closed
was bigger than in the previous period.
So far as these major items in our
economy are concerned, the 1937-38 year
has opened well.
* * * *
Over the 12 months to the end of
May last the cost of food and groceries
as computed by the Commonwealth
Statistician rose 3.7 p.c. in respect of 30
cities and towns, 3.6 p.c. as regards the
six capitals. Figures lifted least in N. S.
Wales, which has been steady at a com-
paratively high level for some time past,
and most in Tasmania and Queensland.
It will be interesting to see how results
for July this year pan out; it was the
month in which part of the Reddaway
wage increase became operative.
$ * * * .
Broken Hill Prop.’s profit of 22.6 p.c.
flat on capital as it stood at the end of
the year was earned after putting aside
£670,800 for depreciation (up £55,748).
At 82s. 6d. per share last week, yield
to investors would be £3 Os. Id. per
cent, on a 12j p.c. div. basis. The year’s
earnings, however, were £5 9s. 6d. per
cent, on the market’s valuation of the
shares. Shareholders eventually must
reap some benefit from profits at present
undistributed, even if advantages only
come in the shape of new issues of scrip
at a slight premium.
Australian Glass last financial year
showed ord. shareholders 23.1 p.c. At
945., the ratio of profits to sharemarket
values is £4 19s. per cent.
* $
Quarterly div. from the Bank of N. S.
Wales has been kept at 6 p.c. p.a.
< f * 0
Higher prices offering for Henry Jones
scrip brought out a seller in Melbourne
last week ; 50s. 6d. was accepted. Most
dealings have been in Sydney for some
time past, though the co.’s head office is
in Melbourne, and there are 1,430,173
shares issued. Accounts are made up
to October 31. The announcement by
the chairman in 1932 that “the assets, if
generously valued, would not be equal
to 395. 4d. a share [the then market
price],” kept market buoyancy out of the
stock for a matter of about four years.
Over the last 12 months popularity has
returned with a rush. The co. has an
excellent div. record.
❖ ❖ % >1:
Howard Auto Cultivator shares (Syd-
ney), mentioned as interesting in B.
21/7/’37, moved up from 325. 6d. to
335. 6d., with further inquiry at the
higher figure. Though hardly an estab-
lished manufacturing investment, results
and prospects at present are promising.
* * * *
Howards, Ltd., holder of the Queens-
land and N. S. Wales Northern Rivers
district agency for Morris motors and
agent for Electrice refrigerators and
Philco radios, has had an excellent year.
After setting aside £4OOO for taxation, net
profits of £17,635 are exhibited, equal to
17 p.c. on capital, as against 17.5 p.c. in
1935-36, when less was set aside for taxa-
tion. The div. has gone up from 8 p.c.
to 10 p.c. Excluding taxation reserve and
time-payment reserve, net tangibles
amount to 455. 6d. a share, in good-
quality assets. The co. has dropped the
Nash agency, but on the Morris line
alone turnover in cars is jumping ahead.
Howards shares were recommended in
B. 7/4/’37 when around 325. At 345.
now, cum 2s. in div. payable this month,
they are still good buying, offering a yield
of 6.2 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis.
* * * *
One of the most successful of the new
Westralian gold floats, Lancefield, at
Beria, has lifted its half-yearly div., pay-
able Sept. 25, from Is. to Is. 3d. If 2s. 6d.
goes out each year it will be equal to
62| p.c. p.a. Market appreciation in the
4s. shares following the announcement
was slight. At 12s. 3d. buyers ask for
their capital back in about five years.
* * * *
N. S. Wales Government proposes to
extend the Moratorium Act for two years
as from February 28 next. It looks as
though this much-abused piece of law
will still be in working-order when the
next depression drops in. It is certainly
time the mortgagor should be obliged to
show cause why he needs protection, and
not be granted it as a right.
* * *
Masonite Corp. of Australia is coming
on the market for finance to establish a
new industry in the Commonwealth —
the manufacture of fibre-board and
pressed wood from sawmill wastes, etc.
The factory will be in N. S. Wales, and
output in the beginning will be on the
scale of a third of what the C.S. and I.R.
reckons the home market for fibre-board
to be. The Masonite Corp. in U.S.A.
has been highly successful. Profits have
climbed and shares have soared. Terms
of the Australian float aren’t yet avail-
able.
'# * * *
Victoria Car Park Investment, Ltd.,
has been formed to acquire a 28-year
lease of a property fronting Russell and
Little Collins streets, Melbourne, and to
erect a five-floor car-park and service-
station costing £44,250, which it has con-
tracted to sub-let for 10 years at an
annual rental of £lO,BOO, with an extra
£1866 p.a. from shops, etc. The co. will
pay rent of £2200 p.a., rising to £2600
p.a., over the period of its lease from
Scots Church, including a life-assurance
premium of £1205 p.a. to provide for
capital redemption, a net profit of £5125
p.a. is estimated, equal to 9 p.c. p.a. on the
proposed capital of £55,000 —50,000 £1
ords. are offered to the public for cash,
and 5000 fully-paid ords. go to E. G.
Purkiss, the promoter (and sub-lessee),
who has met out-of-pocket and option
exes, to date. The property is in a good
position, and Mr. Purkiss has already
been running a car-park across the street
for two years, and should know the busi-
ness. The present co.’s success will, oi
course, largely depend on his success as
sub-lessee of the new building, into which
practically all the capital will go.
* * * *
Recommended here last year when the
shires were around 275., Melbourne
Stlamship Co. has increased its final
orti. div. to 7 p.c. p.a., making 6\ p.c.
for the term. Last sale of the ords. was
at 30s. ; buyers now offer that figure,
with sellers holding off at 31s. At the
middle price immediate yield is £4 14s.
p.c. on a 7 p.c. div. basis, and at that
represents the highest return available
• from present front-rank Australian ship-
ping investments. Nine years ago Mel-
bourne Steam was bought on a lower
return basis than any other Australian
shipping co. except Huddart Parker and
the Newcastle co. At times queries
have been raised about the running re-
sults of the Duntroon, the co.’s new
motor-vessel in the inter-State passenger
trade ; the increased div. seems to speak
for results.
#
On Auckland Stock Exchange last
month a buyer was offering ss. 6d. for
Whakatane Paper Mills shares. The
quote stayed on the official list for some
days, but it brought forth no sellers.
* * * *
In Melbourne last week:
Holeproof ords. sold early at 295. 6d., after
sinking as low as 28s. following the scare caused
by talk of overproduction in the hosiery indus-
try. Then there was a lift to 315., with later
turnover at 30s. 6d.
After the announced maintenance of Aus-
tralian Cement's div. at 10 p.c. p.a., there
was keener inquiry for all cement shares, and
buyers offered 335. 6d. for Goliath, following
sales at that figure. Cement shares are well
held in Melbourne.
Carlton Brewery’s interim of 15 p.c. was
marked by a rise in the shares to 685., return
being 4.4 p.c. on the new div. basis.
Menzies Hotel, in which N. B. Rydge
bought a controlling interest in 1936 and share-
holders in which recently agreed to a scheme
of renovation, etc., declared a 2\ p.c. ord. div.,
as against If p.c. last term.
North Kalgurli shares were steady around
19s. 9d., in harmony with the London market,
and in line with Adelaide quotes.
Gordon and Gotch.
Ords. in this well-ribbed and
consistent profit-earner could be
got around 52s. last week, yielding
£4 12s. 2d. per cent. The return
is attractive, and is safe as most.


FOLLOW THE SUN —
CAIRNS
BY SEA
The Incomparable Winter Holiday
26 DAYS OF DELIGHTFUL
TRAVEL AND SIGHTSEEING
Pass through the World-famous Whitsunday Passage
on one of the Luxurious Interstate Liners—
M.V. “KANIMBIA” T.S.S. “CANBERRA”
M.V. “MANOORA” S.S. “ORMISTON”
ORMISTON Traverses Hinchinbrook Channel.
SAILINGS FROM MELBOURNE EVERY SATURDAY.
For Time Table and Pamphlets, etc., apply—
ADELAIDE S. CO., LTD., 505 Collins Street.
McILWRAITH, McEACHARN, LTD., 96 William Street.
A.U.S.N. CO., LTD., 300 and 467 Collins Street.
HOWARD SMITH, LTD., 35 Market Street.
Qj*t
From the famous vats of Sanderson & Son Ltd., Leith,
Scotland distillers of line whisky since 1863, “Vat 69"
possesses the rare character of an old Scotch Liqueur
Whisky mellowed with age and unvarying in flavour.
The discriminating host expects the request . . . “Vat 69“
Please!
“Vat 69” in the original Dump Bottle. Half Bottles and
Flasks.
V*
**<»*'*
Distributors: John WoocU and Co., Ltd., 388 Sussex Street, Sydney.
Sub Agents: Pitt, Son & Badgery, Ltd., 4 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Q’land Distributors: Australian Estates Co., Ltd., Creek St., Brisbane.
k
ķ
DANKS’
Automatic Electric Sump
or Submerged Centrifugal Pump
Designed for operating in cellars as a cellar drain or Sump
Pump and for use on Septic Tanks.
The advantage of using this type of Pump is, it can be
automatically controlled to keep water and many other liquids
at a defined level, without personal attention, as the pump
does not require priming.
This unit can be supplied in various sizes and capacities.
Illustration shows a I in. Pump suitable for a total head of
15ft., with a capacity up to 1200 gallons per hour, fitted
with float switch.
PRICES AND PARTICULARS ON APPLICATION.
JOHN DANKS & SON PTY. LTD.
(INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA.)
324-330 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ’Phone: M 6505.
391-403 ROURKE STREET, MELBOURNE. ’Phone: CB3BO.
With deposits at an Australian record.
and advances at only about a million up
* „ f Iq k w h P n the
on the figure ot Dec., 1935,
credit position showed signs ot becom-
ing really difficult, the latest quarterly
banking figures indicate die
fortable position since June, 1934. inree
advanced was £6o!()00,000, and banks
. > ’ Hpnn<; i t o . q
v W ear e igo 'The washdown ’ to
£29,000,000, and banks had just lifted
their interest rates in order to attract
deposits; at June 30, 1937, deposits were
again £51,000,000 greater than advances,
A bountiful export season has done the
trick combined with the fact that there
has been an increased income in the
hands of those who use trading banks
rather than savings banks. In other
words, unemployment is now down to a
comparatively low figure, and the in-
creasing prosperity of late hasn’t been
so much on wage-earners’ account as it
was in the “recovery” years. It was
partly towards this increasing margin of
profit to employers that Mr. Reddaway
had his eye directed when he recom-
mended “highest possible rates of pay
to employees. But tilthough the credit
position is easy at thm°me th re ts
was up against it fot ready money.
P
Maoriland s record exports ot
£51,697,000 sterling for 1936-37 have
proved an embarrassment to manutac-
turers in the Shivery Isles. Imports rose
to £40,000,000 sterling in sympathy with
the flush position of the London bank ac-
count. The trade balance of £11,696,000
covered London debt-service charges,
with about £3,000,000 to spare, but be-
cause of the stimulus to imports and the
increased costs brought about by the
Savage Government's administration
Maoriland manufacturers, never in a very
strong position, are getting it in the neck.
The position has become particularly
acute over the last two months.
* * * * ■ •
The £1 shares in Barrytown Gold
Dredging, one of the Pratten cos. operat-
ing near Greymouth, Maoriland, sold at
298. 9d. in Christchurch the other day.
The float was put over by Alluvial Gold
about two years ago ; managers are Gold
Mines of N.Z., Ltd., Greymouth. After
a trial run in May, when 450 z. was
won from 22,500 yards, the dredge shut
down on June 14 owing to inability of
the Grey Power Board to supply power
as contracted.
* * * * •
There is no doubt that the cement in-
dustry is doing all right at the moment,
and if Canberra can be restrained from
meddling it should continue to do all
right. Adelaide. Cement has shown
a £2211 increase in profits for the year
which ended on May 31; net result was
13.3 p.c. on capital, both pref. and ord.
Goliath, m Tasmania had a record year,
and there 1S reason to believe that the
Australian Cement-Kandos combination
wj j, sbow j mprove d results,
* * * *
Improved demand from the iron-and-
bfOUght back Illawarra
Col < e (Coalchff, N.S.W.) to the div. list
With a 3 p.c. distribution, and Federal
Coke (Wollongong, has lifted its div.
from 2, p.c. to 6 p.c. The product in
both cases is smelting coke, a specially-
made article that differs considerably
from the by-product of the gas cos.
Greater demand fiom Port Kembla
steelworks and foundries in Sydney and
Newcastle has had the most influential
effect; some trade is also done with
Noumea.
* * * *
With a final div., making 15 p.c. for
the year, payable on August 31, share-
holders in Austin Distributors, Mel-
bourne, have been reluctant to take less
tban sq s f or their fully-paid scrip re-
centiy Div- f or 1935.36 was 10 p.c ; ;
interim for 1936.37, 10 p.c. p.a., plus
2 , bonus the final was 7, px> Q n
-P div the ieW is M ■ Net
, t balance da were 245 . Bd .
«!• and'^earnings
scrip _ mostly represenUn F g the capitalisa-
tion of anticipated future earnings, takes
some 0 f the shine out of the picture so
f ar as sfiaremarket is concerned,
H:
. . _ , uoii^we
„ Nfwly listed in Sydney, Mclliath s
Holdings have been dealt in extensively
at 365. 6d.-375. The public got most ot
them at 355., plus 6d. commission ; theie
had been a substantial profit to prior
holders in most cases. Mcllrath’s chain
Q f grocery shops in the Sydney metro-
polffan area had a profitable run for
many yea rs, and did well even during the
d e p ress jon. In the future expansion isn’t
]j ke i y to be so notable as in the past,
Bussell’s, Derrin’s, Buttle's, Moran and
Cato’s and other grocery chains have
come strongly into the field of recent
years. Still, there are probabilities of a
fair, steady income to Mcllrath s share-
holders, though information offered re-
garding the basis ot past profits is a bit
hard to analyse, There are 232,000 £1
shares issued.
* *: * *
In B. 19/5/’37, when the shares were
at 20s. 9d., the improved outlook of
Illawarra Brick was mentioned. Last
sale was at 225. 6d., and buyers offer
21s. 6d., with no sellers about. The co.,
partly because of the big developments at
Port Kembla, is having its best run for
years, though earnings are still moderate
(6.6 p.c. on capital in 1935-36). Accounts
to June 30 last, shortly to be presented,
should.be better. Return on the present
5 p.c. div. basis is 4.5 p.c.


SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under -rhe Whip
Vincent O’Neill, of Spearfelt fame,
holds Volant on lease from J. Nicol, the
breeder. A plain-looking customer,
Volant is a brother to West Wing, who
performed brilliantly over fences in Mel-
bourne a few seasons ago. O’Neill pro-
nounced Volant to be in the pink of con-
dition for the Aberfeldie Hurdle at
Moonee Valley, adding “My fellow isn’t
a good jumper, but will have too much
pace for the others if he gets round
safely.” The prediction was borne out.
Volant squeezed home by half a head
from Fulham, who was a mere head in
advance of Bridge of Mar. Last-named
probably would have won if he had not
blundered badly at the last obstacle.
Bridge of Mar was a 3-to-l favorite,
Volant figuring at 7 to 1 and old Ful-
ham at “fifteens.” Ted Webster had not
ridden Bridge of Mar before. He is
satisfied that the. longer galloping
stretches at Caulfield will be helpful to
the Farndon Bridge gelding. Dakwood
was fourth.
At his first appearance over the
battens Volant romped home in a Trial
Hurdle at Ascot and equalled the course
record for two miles. He now has
started three times for two wins. Nine
years ago O’Neill landed a G.N. with
Longlands, who was raised from 9st. to
lOst. 71b. in the Australian Hurdle and
ran third to Sir Alogy and Rumford. The
V.A.T.C. handicapper has penalised
Volant 51b., which, on top of 9st., can-
not be regarded as harsh treatment.
Both Bridge of Mar and Fulham come
down 21b. in the Australian Hurdle, and,
accordingly, they meet Volant on 71b.
better terms than at the Valley. Fulham
seems to have taken a new lease of life.
In 1935 he captured the G.N. and was
second to Sixteen Annas in the Austra-
lian Hurdle. Fifty yards from home on
Saturday he hit the front; but, aided by
a 251 b. pull in weight, Volant wore him
down.
E. (“Darcy”) Eccles, made his pres-
ence. felt at Moonee Valley. He won
a division of the Cooee Handicap with
Ronsardian and the Derrimut Handicap
with The Trump.
Though Ronsardian had not raced
since the middle of April, he shared
second favoritism with Petra at 9 to 2,
the prime choice of backers being C. B.
Kellow’s Heroic filly Cleopatra (11 to
4). After leading, Cleopatra tired before
the turn was reached and finished
seventh only. Preston got Ronsardian
home, in easy fashion from Petra and
the fast-finishing Campaspe.
The Trump, like his stable-companion,
reappeared after three months’ absence
from racing. He has been difficult to
train, and punters did not anticipate that
the son of Manfred would be in com-
mission for a sprint event. As much as
50 to 1 was laid. He firmed to “twelves”
and took a packet of money out of the
ring.
Aurie’s Star’s being in the field made
a splendid market for the supposedly
“rough stuff.” The. Adelaide sprint star,
who carried everything before him in
Melbourne during the autumn, was
backed down to 10 to 9 on. He stood
flat-footed when the barrier rose and
lost much ground, but Elliot had him in
front at the end of a furlong. Back-
ward in condition, Aurie’s Star may be
forgiven for tiring into fourth place.
Smothering the leaders The Trump
scored by 2\ lengths from Phenomenon,
who defeated Great Feast by the narrow-
est of margins for second money. His
dam is by Spearhead from a half-sister
to Ronsardian’s dam. She runs back to
Chelandry and comes from the same
family as Traquair, Magpie and Heroic.
Sir Grey, by Cimbrian (half-brother to
Heroic), credited A. G. Hunter, his
breeder, with the second division of the
Cooee Handicap. At 3 to 1 he shared
favoritism with Hautboy and the M.L.
colt Silver Bond. An easy victory over
Eastern Maid and Dazzling Star was
registered by Sir Grey. Four lengths off,
Hautboy headed the unplaced division.
Silver Bond was not sighted.
Splendidly handled by Fullarton, Sey-
mour (a 5-to-2 favorite) was all out to
beat old Montargis in the Lindsay Gor-
don Steeple, with Character only a neck
farther off. Rider of Montargis erred
in going up on the inside of Seymour,
where he was cramped for room. Sey-
mour has been penalised 31b. for the
Australian Steeple on August 14. He
now has 11s. 131 b.
Desert Chief, one of the best-looking
stallions that have come across from
M.L. in recent years, let his backers
down again in the Glen Orla Handicap.
Ridden out with the whip, he could make
no impression on the Australian Cup
winner, Mutable, who, at “fives,” was
equal second favorite with Spearflash.
Top quote in the case of Desert Chief
was 5 to 2. It may be that he needs
a lot of racing.
Pep (12 to 1) produced his best form
in the Sunset Welter and comfortably
accounted for Jacasse and Jim Scobie’s
candidate, Gilt. The 4-to-l favorite,
Palatinate, beat only three rivals, though
Skidmore was in the saddle.
* * *
Aero King, a half-brother (by The
Ace) to Capris, the Epsom winner, is
now being discussed as an A.J.C. Derby
possibility. Auckland-bred and -owned —
he carries the colors of Cecil Emanuel —
Aero King won the first division of the
Juvenile Handicap at Moorefield, from
Welcome and Moaveil, in most impres-
sive style. McCarten had the colt on the
rails turning for home, but the antici-
pated opening did not come his way. So
Aero King was pulled to the outside,
and for a few strides he became unbal-
anced, but when he settled down he gal-
loped like a good one.
Aero King will run in the Hobartville
Stakes at Warwick Farm. There he will
meet Lynch Law and Caesar and several
of the Victorians, so the race will test
him.
Televise, who has done a lot of picnic
racing in the western districts, is paying
his way on Sydney tracks. There was
no fluke about his victory in the Moore-
field Handicap ; the race was his half a
mile from home. Grand Warbler made the
running. The pace she set beat the top-
weight, Bulldozer, but left her limp when
the straight was reached. On the other
hand, it suited Televise, who cleared out
in the straight and romped home from
Head Boy and Confab. He was backed
from fours to 5 to 2.
Heroic Faith (2 to 1), a smart galloper
when he hits the front and is not wor-
ried in that position, had matters all his
own way in the Rockdale Mile. He. was
inclined to shirk it at the top of the
straight, but Darby Munro drove him
along, and neither Wise Boy nor Aureus
could trouble him in the run home.
Aureus had 9st. 101 b. and was on the
outside all the way. He drops to Bst.
in the Epsom, for which he has been
supported in doubles with Metrop. fan-
cies ; but he will need to improve. Walker
thinks he has a chance.
“G. Lightford” won the Maiden Plate
with Hirai (9 to 4), a small son of Rose-
wing, who outstayed St. Constant. St.
Constant, who ran second in the
Breeders’ Plate, is owned by Cooper, of
Talking celebrity. He showed no fight
when Hirai challenged him. Rebel Chief
was third, but too far away for the form
to be encouraging. The second division
of the Juvenile resulted in an all-the-
way win for Salamyne (7 to 2).
Aberdeen pastoralist Keith Mackay did
the bookies a good turn when Trinco (10
to 1) held on long enough to beat the
favorite, Überous, by a head in the first
division of the. Flying Welter. Povert-
dale was third. Vertex (20 to 1) sent the
bookies home rejoicing after the second
division, in which he beat Irak and Mil-
lion Dollars.
The Trump is a five-year-old bay geld-
ing by Manfred-Koanie. As a three-
year-old he won the V.R.C. Handicap,
a mile and a quarter, in a style so dash-
ing that Melbourne racegoers allowed
that Darcy Eccles had, after many dis-
appointments, got hold of a youngster
as good as The Cypher. The impression
was confirmed by a brilliant finish in the
Caulfield Guineas, in which, though only
third, The Trump was going faster at
the end than Young Idea; but after that
he went wrong. There is still a doubt
as to his soundness; if that could be re-
moved, The Trump would have tons of
support for whatever spring handicap
he may be set for. He has been backed
for the Caulfield Cup, in which he has
7st. 101 b.
•k $ *!•
Elliot, who went to the U.S.A. with
Phar Lap, was the most successful Vic-
torian jockey last season, with win-
ning mounts. He had the riding of
Pamelus among other good horses.
Elliot is not the equal of Duncan, now
retired from the ranks of jockeys and set-
ting up as a trainer, nor has he ever had
the following that great horseman en-
joyed ; but he rides at a handy weight,
never dodges track work and has a good
pair of hands.
* * * *
Pamelus has been on the sick list —very
much so. Colic was the trouble, and
the attack was so severe that the vets,
almost gave up hope. However, the
Queensland champion has a sturdy con-
stitution, and when the colic ran its
course he was still alive and kicking;
but he is an unlikely starter for any of
the big spring handicaps, for three of
which he is on the top line. He may have
to be reckoned with in short-distance
w.f.a. races.
If there is anything in the theory of
a sporting doctor as to the effect of over-
exertion on a racehorse’s heart, Young
Crusader will never again be the horse
he was when he won the Metrop. and
ran his wonderful 14 furlongs in Wotan’s
Melbourne Cup. Nevertheless, to the
delight of his owner, Longworth, and
his trainer, Brennan, the chestnut showed
a glimpse of his last year’s form in a
6-i-furlongs race at Victoria Park;
backed from 20’s to 14’s, he ran a
creditable second to Brown Betty, by
no means a bad mare at the distance.
Now a five-year-old by racing time,
Young Crusader filled out during his
spell, and though his subsequent 1936-
37 racing showed that the Flemington
ordeal had left its mark on him, it is, of
course, possible that he has got over it.
He may be taken to Brisbane for the
Exhibition Handicap.
* * * *
Mala, the unlucky horse of last spring,
has begun the 1937-38 season auspici-
ously. He was given a run in the Flying
Handicap, 6| furlongs, at Victoria Park
(Sydney), was always well up, and was a
winner after they had gone six furlongs,
though Buzzalong required some shaking
off. Silver Standard was a fair third. He
looks “stallionish” and will evidently need
a lot of racing. Mala is in all the spring
handicaps, but is best treated in the Caul-
field Cup, in which he has Bst. 111 b—no
great load for a first-class four-year-old.
& % %
There are two young fellows named
Cook among the Sydney jockeys, and
they are having chequered experiences.
With 80 wins, Billy Cook led all the
other N.S.W. jockeys during the racing
season which closed last Saturday ; but
he is nursing an injury and will be out
of action for several weeks. Keith Cook
failed to secure a renewal of his joc-
key’s license. The Cooks are not related.
Hs * * *
Sydney bookmakers are still expected
to pay a turnover tax. Until recently
a trusting Government thought they all
scrupulously paid it, but policemen
prowling about the ring on a suburban
course found one Tommy booking
wagers on a less-50-p.c. basis, a second
entering others in racebooks, and a third
minus the required carbon copy. They
potted W. C. Alldritt, one of the veterans
of the ring, Sing and Catton, who of
late years has done his bookmaking in
the Leger, although he formerly com-
piled a comfortable libretto in the
paddock. All three were fined, and as
a result they have lost their A.J.C.
licenses. That seems rough; and the
tax is crude and unfair.
* * * *
“Doncaster”: French racing cham-
pions are familiar to British followers
of the game, but an Italian champion is
not so often heard of. One has emerged
from comparative obscurity in Dona-
tello 11., a three-year-old which ran
second in the last Prix de Paris and also
won this year’s Italian Derby. The colt
has been bought by one Esmond—
nationality not stated —for £45,000. He
is by the Aga Khan's Blenheim, recently
sold to America, and his breeding on
the dam’s side is as aristocratic as that
of his sire.
(Continued on page 30.)
Footbrawl
Melbourne beat St. Kilda, 18-16 to
11-18, in Saturday’s V.F.L. series. This
places Richmond in “the four” with a
two-point premiership lead of St. Kilda.
The other important ladder positions are
unchanged.
Collingwood beat Footscray, 19-12 to
10- Geelong found South Melbourne
difficult, but won 16-11 to 13-10; and
Richmond vanquished Fitzroy, 15-13 to
11- Carlton was too strong for
North Melbourne, 14-8 to 10-11. Haw-
thorn v. Essendon was an interesting
match: Hawthorn won by 13-14 to 11-13.
❖ * * *
The Springboks won their third match
in M.L., beating Taranaki 17-3. The
crowd numbered 21,000.
* * * *
Saturday’s round of Sydney Rugby
Union matches brought some surprises.
In a rough affair at Drummoyne the
local team ditched West, the leaders,
29-3. St. George, back again to
something like the form it showed early
in the season, put on 10 tries against
Randwick and ran out 40-11. West is
still on top of the table, one point now
above Uni., which defeated Gordon,
19-12. East and Drummoyne together
make up “the four”: East downed
Manly 21-16. Manly and St. George
still have a chance to reach “the four.”
Australian Rugby players, ancient and
modern, will sincerely mourn the death
of H. D. Wood, till recently the N.S.W.
Prothonotary. He was a notable player
in his day—he was Sydney Uni.’s full-
back for some seasons and filled that
position for N.S.W. against Queensland
in 1898 —and as an administrator he
stood out, particularly in post-war years,
when his energetic leading did much to
bring the N.S.W. Union and the game
in Australia generally out of the valley
of tribulation into which it had been led.
He was 70 at the final whistle, a fact
which surprised many friends, for he had
the gift of youth in mind and body.
“Gabba”: The Queensland Rugby
Union has decided to tighten up its lax
attitude towards professional players de-
siring to cross from the League to the
amateur code. Hitherto a League man
had only to stand down for a month
before being allowed to play with the
Union. In future he will have to wait
until the following season before taking
on the lily white mantle of the R.U:
Another desirable change in the rules
provides that once a player leaves the
Union for the League he may never
come back to the amateur code, thus
automaticaly imposing on himself a
Kathleen Mavourneen sentence.
* * * *
“Fergus”: How’s this for an uncom-
fortable position in which to place a
Rugby Union football management com-
mittee? Nelson (M.L.) Rugby Union
had the skipper of its provincial side
on the carpet after he had been ordered
off the field in a club game for allegedly
punching an opponent. The Union de-
cided that a reprimand would be sufficient
penalty. When the president announced
this leniency, the player startled the
Union by saying it was “weak and didn’t
know its duty.” You see, he denied hav-
ing socked the other fellow and main-
tained that, if the Union thought the ref.
was right and then allowed the offender
to get off with such a light penalty, there
was something wrong' with its administra-
tive ethics. He advanced this unusual
play-the-game attitude a step further
when he solemnly advised the Union that
it shouldn’t have been influenced by the
fact that he was captain of its provincial
representative team! Nelson Union
heads are still wondering if he was being
sarcastic.
:jc % * ❖
“Hotham”: The English Soccer players
won both their Melbourne matches, the
one against an “Australian” XI by 4-3.
The attendance totalled 16,000, and the
loot £727. A floodlight game against
Victoria on a cold night drew only 1500
folk to see the locals beaten 6-1. Pro-
ceeding to Adelaide, the tourists pre-
vailed over South Australia by 10-1.
(Continued on page 30.)
FOR CAULFIELD.
Moondah Plate: Valiant Chief ;
next, Aurie’s Star.
Balaclava Stakes: Desert Chief;
next, Red Ray.
Australian Hurdle: Dakwood ;
next, Fulham.
Mornington Welter: Erua ; next,
Dunloe.
FOR ROSEHILL.
Three-year-old Handicap: Aero
King; next, Silenus or Bristol.
Flying Handicap: Moonray;
next, Silver Rose.
August Handicap: Fireman;
next, Dulcedo or Friar’s Switch.
Parramatta Mile: Jovial Son or
Dulcedo; next, Archmel.


COUGH MIXTURE ROYAL
(or the man about town!
For the man who takes a spot here’s
the perfect high speed remedy for coughs,
colds and ’flu:—
* Into a spot of neat whisky put half
a teaspoonful of concentrated
HEENZO (straight from the original
bottle)—lT MAKES CURING A
COLD A PLEASURE.
ONE MILLION users annually can’t be
wrong —follow the lead of the majority
and use
9
the marvellous money-saving family remedy for
COUGHS
COLDS
CROUP—BRONCHITIS and ’FLU


"silver
EDGE "
TRADE (/MARK REGISTERED
THE RAYBESTOS CO.
BRAKE
LINING
ĸ
k
k
MOTORISTS
CAN YOU STOP?
Have you experienced the uncanny feeling of pressing your brake pedal
and nothing happens?
Do not wait for this experience to be yours, but have your brakes
watched and adjusted at definite periods in the same way as you attend
to the oiling of your engine.
See that your brakes are fitted with “RAYBESTOS” BRAKE LININGS
and so ensure reliability, uniform wear and safety.
RAYBESTOS-BELACO, LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Factory Rep.: JOHN ARNOLD, G.P.O. Box 71, MELBOURNE, VIC.
Under the Whip
“Bob Punter”: My neighbor is an
s.p. addict. He bets in two bobs, usually
each way, and regularly on Sydney’s
Wednesday and Saturday meetings. He
does his punting by ’phone—unless the
Stevens crowd gets control of the tele-
phones its chance of eliminating s.p.
is Buckley’s—and has a standing ar-
rangement with his bookie that when-
ever the debt on either side exceeds 255.
the money will be sent along. Not being
a complete mug, he bets only on proved
good horses, taking a risk with these
now and then, such as with Young
Crusader, running second, first up, at
20 to 1, in a sprint the other day. Up
to the present this year there have been
two postal exchanges between him and
his bookie —365. his way and 275. to
the book. Thus, he’s ahead of it; but
even if he were quids out he might still
be reckoned a big winner—two days a
week for seven months of the entertain-
ment he happens to prefer to all others.
* * ❖ *
“0.G.”: I note that not one of those
campaigning against s.p. on the ground
of its alleged damage to racing ever men-
tions a concrete instance in support. On
the other hand —obscurely, of course-
evidence appears in a steady stream in
the press to indicate that financially clubs
supposedly threatened with ruin are
doing as well this year as ever they did.
A case in point was mentioned recently
in The Bulletin —South Grafton Club
making a net profit of several hundreds
on an outlay in prize-money of £7OO.
Another small N.S.W. country club—
Wellington—now reports that it “made a
profit of £lOB for the year, and paid for
many improvements to the racecourse.”
Also,* Newcastle district—the State’s big-
gest racing centre outside Sydney, and
one hitherto freely lield up as a glaring
example of the awful effects of s.p.
reports “a strong revival in racing,” and
“Newcastle racing is getting back to
where it was when Beaufort and other
champions used to go south to represent
it.’’ A few examples of clubs that have
been outed by s.p. seem to be called for.
% ❖ * *
“M.C.”: Supporting “O.G.’s” conten-
tion that the bulk of s.p. betting is done
on the nod (B. 28/7/’37). Happening
to have the money on me when I went
ten bob each way I departed from
the usual practice and proffered the note.
“ ’Struth,” objected the agent, “d’ye want
to put the mock on it?” He further
advised to “stick it in y’r kick,” adding
that if the moke was no better than I
seemed to think it he’d collect next day.
* * * *
“Retired Urger”: I must repeat my
charge that “0.G.” (B. 28/7/’37) is talk-
ing wild and wide when he says s.p. bet-
ting is largely conducted on the nod, with
settling after the event is run save in
chicken-feed bets. My knowledge of
s.p. betting did not cease “in the nine-
ties,” though it began about then in the
days when betting shops were wide open.
Since those days it has been added to,
and I repeat—sure that all readers who
know anything of the game will bear
me out—that at least 90 per cent, of
s.p. wagering is for cash on the nail,
and that the great bulk of it takes place
in hotel bars. I am leaving out the vast
volume, of s.p. betting for cash in Gov-
ernment offices, shops, offices, ware-
houses, factories, etc. Proof of the im-
portance of pubs in s.p. betting is seen
in the tremendous falling-off in the illicit
trade in Brisbane since the Queensland
legislation made the publican responsible
for betting on his premises at the risk of
punishing fines and the loss of his license.
All hands are agreed that this broke the
back of s.p. betting in Brisbane, as it
certainly will do in Sydney as soon as
similar legislation comes into force.
M.Q. and Rafferty
Blatch has been licked again in New
York —-by one Red Guggino, who was
441 b. lighter. With rotten sportsmanship
the crowd hooted the Australian when
he shaped up. It was an eight-rounder,
and Alf lasted the eight rounds.
* * * *
“Tom Cribb”: The U.S.A.’s “National”
Boxing Association has declared Joe
Louis the legitimate holder of the world’s
championship, and ranked Schmeling as
“contender No. 1.” By all the accepted
rules Schmeling, who beat Louis, is the
actual world’s champion, since Braddock,
the late holder of the title, accepted the
German’s challenge and failed to keep
the appointment, though Schmeling was
there. Farr is to have the first cut at the
alleged “champion.” It seems poor
policy: he should have two or three
fights in the U.S.A. first.
Footbrawi
“Fitzcray”: Last year a memorial
medal commemorating the services to
Australian football of the late Eric
Tassie, of Adelaide, was instituted. The
first award will be made to the best and
fairest player at the All-Australia tourna-
ment in Perth, umpires to decide. Victoria,
holder of the valuable Centenary Cup
presented by the South Australians last
year, was asked to put up the pot for
general competition at Perth. The Cab-
bage Gardeners declined, and the trophy
will be next on offer when South Aus-
tralia and Victoria clash.
* * * *
“Tenakoe”: The Springboks made an
excellent impression on their first appear-
ance in Maoriland. The cabled account
of the match says that there was not an
unseemly happening throughout the
game, though the referee once pulled it
up to address some advice to Hadley
and Louw, both front-row men. At
the finish of the match, Louw displayed
an All-Black eye and Nel a cut mouth
which bled freely, so a good time was
evidently had by all.
Playing combined Waikato and King
Country in their second match in M.L.
the ’Boks showed no relish for wet and
muddy going. The local men held them
well, and it was not until they gave up
trying to play an open game and relied
on the forward phalanx that the tourists
prevailed. Even then it was a try all
until just before time, when Brand
landed a penalty goal, to give his side
victory by 6-3. Worth noting that the
referee piled the penalties on to the
visitors for some of their work in the
scrum.
“Did you teach my wife jiu-jitsu ?”
“Mak”: By this time the Springboks
have a fair idea of what to expect when
they line out against Maoriland’s best.
Of prominent players among the 80 who
participated in Maoriland’s series of All-
Black trials, the ’Boks have already met
Dick, Killeen, Solomon, McLean, Ander-
son, Pearce, Hadley and Pepper (Auck-
land), Russell, Crossman, Phillips, Dixon
and Best (Combined Waikato-King
Country-Thames), and Sullivan and
Fowler (Taranaki). Of these, Dick, Sul-
livan and Phillips played great three-
quarter games; Crossman and Solomon
impressed at five-eighth, Russell at half,
and Hadley, Anderson and Pepper in the
forwards. Phillips was a wing in George
Nepia’s last Maori side to tour Australia,
and McLean and Hadley have both been
across with previous All-Black teams.
“Bowen Park”: Thanks largely to the
Springboks the Queensland Rugby Union
announces a season’s profit of close on
£BOO. It is about time the Union thought
of getting a ground of its own, and with
the cash in hand and a rallying of sup-
porters of the code, many of whom are
well-to-do, there should be little trouble
in acquiring a suitable area and starting
work on convert,ng it to a decent
ground. Progress would be slow, but it
would not require super-management to
put the job through successfully. At
present the hire of the Brisbane Exhibi-
tion Ground for big matches takes a
big cut out of gate takings. In England
and Scotland the institution of a head-
quarters ground at Twickenham and
Murrayfield has resulted in hundreds of
clubs being able to acquire their own
grounds through cash assistance from the
national bodies, whose profits on the
international matches at their head-
quarters allow them to be generous. We
shall never see that until an Australian
Union takes charge of the finances and
hands out dividends to the States as the
cricket Board of Control does.
* * * *
“Cash Amateur”: Like its cobber in
the North of England, the Rugby League
is anxiously hunting for fresh recruiting
grounds. The latest proposal is that an
attempt be. made to introduce the code
into the N.S.W. Great Public Schools,
Such an attempt is foredoomed to failure,
It would mean loss of support by
parents. Then many G.P.S. athletes go
to British universities, and to go there
with the brand of League professional-
ism on them would mean ostracism as
far as sport is concerned. Similarly the
Olympic Games would be closed to
them, and even in Australia the profes-
sional footballer is barred from amateur
athletics and such games as tennis.
* * * *
“Gate”: An injured ankle acquired
during the last N.S.W. trip to Queens-
land has barred Tottey, the East Syd-
ney winger, from the League trip to Eng-
land. It is hard luck on the lad, who is
a clean and capable player, and the
League is paying him £4O for his expen-
diture on kit, etc., for the tour. Robi-
son, a Queenslander, who has been
several times in Sydney, replaces Tottey.
“Cash Amateur”: There are hoggins
of trouble in the decision of the Rugby
League to distribute the cash bonus at
the end of the tour on a “merit basis”
instead of having the players and
managers share and share alike in the
allotted sum. This will be the first time
the scheme has been applied, and the
allotment will be made on the. report of
the joint managers.
* * * *
“Amateur Pro.”: A suggestion by some
of the members of the English Soccer
team that Australia should enter for the
Soccer football event in the Tokio Olym-
pic Games in 1940 will never bear fruit.
Many Australian Soccer players are paid
for their services, and for that reason
have no hope of being admitted to the
Olympic circle. There is a lesson here
for youths who toy with professional
football and a rude rebuff to the N.S.W.
Rugby League’s hope of establishing its
professional code in the amateur Great
Public Schools.
Nineteenth Hole
“Sandringham”: There was a bit of a
barge over the conclusion of the quali-
fying rounds of the professional golf
championship of Victoria. Four men
tied for 15th place, and had to play off
to decide which two would complete the
necessary 16 qualifiers. It was then 5
p.m., but the committee decided that the
show should go on. Jupp, who had
changed, protested against playing in the
darkness. The thing became a farce, and
finally Jupp and Clark were eliminated.
The committee’s excuse for ordering the
play-off was that next day was “asso-
ciates” day.
=l= * * *
“Divot Digger”: Though the team of
amateurs to visit Britain is to be chosen
after the Australian cham-
pionships, which begin in
Sydney on September 4, no-
thing seems to have been
done about finance. The
agrement is that Australia
pays for the trip to England
and back, the folk at home
taking charge from their
landing until their return to
the ship. The A.G.U., which
is supposed to be running the;
show, is a notoriously inert
body. Whether it will find
the fares or expects the
chosen players to foot their
own passage bill is interest-
ing a lot of people.
* * *
“Brass”: The match be-
tween W. Bolger and Lou
Kelly for £5O a side will be
played on the Manly
(N.S.W.) course on August
18. The match will be over
36 holes, and J. B. Ferrier,
papa of Jim of that ilk, will
umpire.
“Lakeside”: Our old friend Sarazen,
after failing to witch the British golf
world, bobbed up with a major victory
on his return to his own country: the
Chicago open championship, a rich event
in which most of the American profes-
sionals appear. Gene took 290 for the
72 holes, which suggests the general
standard of play was not elevated.
* * * *
“Hamilton”: What must be a record
of its kind was the meeting of mother
and daughter, Mrs. W. F. and Miss Gar-
diner, in the final of the Royal Queens-
land club championship in Brisbane for
the seventh time. The event is quite a
family preserve, for the mother has won
four times to her offspring’s three. The
pair have been associated in other
events, having won the State foursomes
six times. Daughter has also taken the
Queensland singles championship a
couple of times. Handicappers have found
it impossible to separate them, standing
both up on the four mark —the lowest
Queensland handicap for associate
players.
i.: * *
“Divot Digger”: The number of seaside
golf courses continues to increase, and
one day soon Australia will be described
in the books as a continent entirely sur-
rounded by golf links. The latest in
Sydney is the St. Michael’s club, which
will be registered under the State Com-
panies Act. It proposes to take up a
Crown lease of 110 acres between Little
Bay and the course of the N.S.W. club at
La Perouse for an 18-hole course, and
the estimate of cost of construction
is set down at £4500. Shares are to be
issued, and the price for the transfer of
the lease from the present holder is given
as £l5OO cash and the allotment to him
of 500 f.-p. £1 shares. He will also
superintend the construction of the
course at a salary.


For Sale.
Border Collies.
PUPS now ready. Finest imported strains.
Reasonable prices. Full particulars on request.
BORDER KENNELS, Cobaw, via Woodend,
Victoria.
Bathed in glorious tropical sunshine,
Java, with her countless attractions,
awaits you beautiful landscapes
ancient temples bazaars colourful
native life—palatial hotels. Equipped
with every modern convenience, the
t.s.s. "MARELLA" and m.v. "MERKUR"
sail regularly from Melbourne and
Sydney along a smooth water route.
Life on board is pleasant. Spacious
decks, restful lounges, a tiled swim-
ming pool, the latest talking picture
equipment—each day is pleasure-filled:
At your request we shall be
pleased to forward folder No. 61.
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD.
7 BRIDGE ST., SYDNEY
TELEPHONE 87901
5
im- I ’
128 ADELAIDE STREET, BRISBANE 312 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
And at ADELAIDE, FREMANTLE, CAIRNS, WELLINGTON, AUCKLAND
The most modern
development in truck
maintenance . . .
The FORD ENGINE-EXCHANGE PLAN
k
ķ
ĸ
LONGER
Truck Life
x
LOWER
Ton-mile Cost
HIGHER
Resale Value
V-8 Truck owners, many of whom exchange
engines at 90,000 and 100,000 miles, have
proved that this revolutionary new Ford
engine exchange plan saves time and money,
keeps ton-mile cost even lower and maintains
a higher resale value.
The Ford engine exchange plan puts truck
operation on a completely new basis. Instead
of laying up your truck for several days
for engine overhaul, you may now exchange
the engine in a few hours for one that has
been completely reconditioned at the Ford
Factory to original manufacturing standards.
The exchange engine has the same long life
as a new engine and carries a new engine
Warranty. It gives your truck an engine which
for all practical purposes is as good as new.
BUY FROM YOUR LOCAL FORD DEALER
The cost of completely overhauling an engine
can rarely be accurately quoted in advance.
The Ford engine exchange plan saves you
money by offering the complete job at a
standard cost. From your previous experience
you can set a mileage figure at which you
will exchange the engine of your truck, and,
if you wish, can budget for this cost on a
weekly or monthly basis.
In addition the Ford engine exchange plan
helps you to maintain the resale value of
your truck. With a factory reconditioned
engine installed at an economical charge
your truck has a new long lease of life
and its value is increased accordingly.
The Ford engine exchange plan is one of
the greatest advances ever made in truck
service. Your Ford dealer will gladly give
you all information you may require.
k
k
ķ
The 1937
k
F188.24C.
FORD MOTOR COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD. (INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA)
Racquet and Bawl
“Centre Court”: The U.S.A. won the
Davis Cup. Austin easily disposed of
Parker, and Hare surprised by running
Budge to 15-13 in the first set, though
the champion dropped only three games
in the next two sets. With Hughes un-
able to pi ay, Wilde partnered Tuckey
in the doubles, and here again the Ameri-
cans, Budge and Mako, struck unex-
pected resistance before winning by three
sets to one. This left the English faced
with winning the last two singles if they
were to hold the Cup. Parker downed
Hare in three straight sets. The Cup has
been absent 10 years from the U.S.A.
* * *
“Hotham”: For years Japan has been
asking Australia to send along a repre-
sentative tennis team to return the visit
paid some years ago by Harada and his
mates. For years the obligation had been
dodged. Japan has renewed the invitation,
and the A.L.T.A. has offered to send
along Schwartz and Hopman. Though
good players, these men were not thought
up to the standard of our lamentable
Davis Cup team, and the Nipponese will
no doubt feel correspondingly compli-
mented.
❖ * * *
“Kooyong”: The Australian tennis
heads are inviting a third American to
join Budge and Mako on their Austra-
lian tour. A bit previous, since the
Americans have cabled that until these
players return to America they cannot
definitely say whether or not they will
come.
Miscellaneous
Maoriland had a sporting chance of
winning the second Test match with
England at Old Trafford, but a rain-
affected wicket and a bowler able to
take advantage of it upset the apple-
cart. England in its first knock closed
at 9 for 358. Hutton scored a century.
Cowie’s 4 for 73 was the best bit of M.L,
bowling. The tourists ran up 281 in
reply, Vivian (58) and Hadlee (93) bat-
ting in great style, and Wellard taking
4 for 81. England struck trouble in the
second try, Cowie (6-67) skittling them
for 187, an end-of-the-innings stand by
Brown (57), Ames (39) and Smith (27)
staving off disaster. With 265 to win,
things looked rosy for M.L. Then God-
dard intervened for England, and the
innings ended at 134, of which Vivian
collected 50 and Donnelly 37 n.o. God-
dard, with 6 for 29, was the destroyer.
* * * *
“Tenth Slip”: It is likely that the
Board of Control will ask Maoriland to
let the cricketers now in England return
by way of Australia, playing matches in
Adelaide, Melbourne and Sydney. It
should be. worth while for M.L. if only
from a financial point of view, for the
board will probably give the All-Blacks
the whole of the net profits on the Aus-
tralian matches.
* * *
“Stool Ball”: The Australian girl
cricketers inflicted an eight-wickets de-
feat on the English team that walked
all over them in Australia. It was their
last official game in England. A feature
of the closing matches has been the
heavy scoring of Peggy Antonio, the Mel-
bourne lass, whose slow bowling has
hitherto been her chief asset.
*i* *l* -k 4*
“Tenth Slip”: President Sydney Smith
spoke a commendable piece at the
annual meet of the N.S.W.C.A. when he
condemned the system of rewarding re-
tired players with benefits. Instead he
advocated the institution of an insurance
scheme fathered by the Board of Con-
trol and the State associations. .There
should be no difficulty in translating it
into fact. Fixed contributions from
Sheffield and international takings could
be supplemented by a small deduction
from each player’s allowance for
matches. One of the big insurance com-
panies might be approached to handle
the matter, as is the case to-day with the
superannuation pensions of the Papuan
civil service. The president pointed out
another important point. This was that,
though the C.A. did a lot to find jobs for
many rising young cricketers, a percen-
tage of these could not hold them, drift-
ing from one to another. Also he added
that the modern Sheffield and inter-
national cricketer, requiring to be re-
leased from his job for practically the
whole of the season, was shied at by
the most sporting of employers.
Though there was opposition, the hint
that the “Hill” at Sydney C.G. would be
converted into a huge covered grand-
stand was welcomed, especially as some-
one pointed out that the greatly superior
gates in Melbourne were due to the fact
that intending spectators could go out
to the ground undismayed by threaten-
ing weather.
The. balance sheet showed that N.S.W.
got £6582 from the last English tour.
* * * *
“Gabba”: Queensland C.A. runs its
-Colts team on a modified chain-gang
system. Batsman-keeper Tallon desired
to leave the Colts for the South Brisbane
district club, for which he is qualified,
but has been informed he cannot do so
until he is 23 years of age. Tallon has
received more than one “offer.” It does
not appear that his connection with the
Colts will prevent his going to some
other State, since he is under no con-
tract, the rule as to the Colts being
merely a domestic one.
* . * * *
“Tenth Slip”: Ray Robinson is to try
his luck in South Australia, which is
nowadays outdoing Queensland in the
matter of importing its cricketers. Rob-
inson has got a job there and will join
Grimmett, Badcock and Bradman, all,
like himself, importations from other
States. Time was when South Australia,
with men like the Giffens, Lyons, Joe
Darling, Clem Hill, Ernie Jones, the Jar-
vises and many others, had no need to
look abroad for its players. It is absurd
to say that the raw material is not there
now.
* * * *
“Bahadur”: Amarnath, the Indian
cricketer who was sent home in disgrace
during the last Indian tour of Britain by
his Maharajah skipper and subsequently
raised the Indian equivalent of hell and
tommy over the matter, has taken a job
with the Lancashire League. This enter-
prising body employs a Sikh, Amar
Singh by name, and others who have
become Lancashire lads include West
Indians, South Africans and. of course,
ustrajans. * *
“Sprocket”: The Tour de France was
won by Lapebie, a French rider, whose
time in the long run (3000 miles) over
all sorts of country, including part of the
Pyrenees and the mountains on the
Swiss border, was 138 hours 88 minutes
31 seconds. French riders have not
been lucky in the event, Belgians being
the most successful. This year the Bel-
gian team was pelted by Gauls “when
winning,” and withdrew.
“P. & P.”: Spoonerism—the costume-
supervising variety—is no new thing in
Australia. At Brisbane’s civic reception
to the Anglo-Scottish hockey girls an
official mentioned that when young
persons started the game in Brisbane
long ago there was a fearful outcry
because of the shortness of the skirts
they wore, these being at least 6in. from
the ground. As a result, players going
to and from the playing grounds were
warned to carry their hockey sticks by
way of explaining to a shocked public,
if not excusing, their scanty attire.


SHASOW
SHOWS
“The Man in Possession.”
SCAPEGRACE YOUNGER SON,
Robert Taylor
HIS ELDER BROTHER, Reginald Owen
THEIR PAPA E. E. Clive
MUCH-IN-DEBT WIDOW, Jean Harlow
BAILIFF Forrester Harvey
This is based on Dr. H. M. Harwood’s
English stage comedy, done in Holly-
wood by M.-G.-M., and six of the eleven
billed characters in the cast are British.
The mechanism is of a simple, familiar
type ; the humor so mild as to be almost
flavorless. Younger son of wholesale
haberdasher, just out of gaol for selling
a motor-car he hadn’t paid for, becomes
enamored of glamorous widow who,
unknown to him, is his snooty elder
brother’s fiancee. Elder brother believes
widow to be rich. Actually she is be-
sieged by duns and bailiffs. Young man
forces entry to her home as bailiff’s
assistant, and acts as butler when she
entertains fiance and his parents. Even-
tually, of course, the widow succumbs
to the youngster’s attractions and ditches
the elder brother.
Acting honors go to Harvey as the
bailiff. The American stars are vapid
Forrester Harvey in “The Man in Pos-
session” ; Sydney St. James.
in English roles, and even Owen and
Clive are below par. The film is the
last in which Miss Harlow was en-
gaged ; she was never given a harder
nor a more thankless task. At Sydney
St. James.
“The Good Old Soak.”
BIBULOUS HUSBAND, Wallace Beery
HIS WIFE Janet Beecher
DAUGHTER Betty Furness
SON Eric Linden
SERVANT Una Merkel
BOOTLEGGER \ . Ted Healey
SANCTIMONIOUS BANKER,
Robert McWade
Don Marquis’s play makes very fair
film material. Plot is simple and clear-cut.
Son, infatuated by dancer, has embezzled
money from his employers. Egged on by
his banker uncle, he steals share certifi-
cates from his mother, receiving from the
banker a tenth of their value. Suspicion
falls on the old soak, but he’s a shrewd
old bird who rapidly sizes up the whole
situation. At a midnight interview with
his banker cousin he forces that old buz-
zard to disgorge, threatening that if he
doesn’t he’ll choke him to death and
then tell the world that this pretendedly
pious pillar of the church was financing
bootleggers.
Beery simply repeats the mannerisms
of “Old Hutch,” but the dialogue gives
him many more laughs than in that
opus. Support is good. Miss Merkel’s
sad story of the untimely demise of a
much-respected parrot is a gem, and Mc-
Wade’s alternations of apple-sauce and
pepper are amusing. At Sydney St.
James.
“Mysterious Crossing.”
FERRETING REPORTER, James Dunn
MURDERED MAN’S DAUGHTER,
Jean Rogers
The live-wire reporter who stumbles
on a crime and proceeds to back-slap-
ping a hysterical editor and ordering
the Police Commissioner about, what
time he pursues his own investigations,
is a tried and trusty screen pal. The
humorous-faced Mr. Dunn walks off his
job to trace a missing millionaire banker.
When the magnate’s body is recovered
from the Mississippi the cops take it for
suicide, but James is there to show them
up for the goats they are. The audience
knows who the murderer is immedi-
ately John Eldredge, of the heavy-lidded
eyes and fragmentary moustache, walks
into the film; it takes James an hour to
wake up to it.
Andy Devine and his double-barrelled
voice have been dragged in to infuse
some comic relief, and Hobart Cavanaugh
is the editor who tears his hair. At
Sydney Capitol.
“Charlie Chan at the Olympics.”
C. CHAN Warner Oland
ADVENTURESS, Katharine de Mille
NICE GIRL Pauline Moore
DEBONAIR VILLAIN,
C. Henry Morgan
NUMBER-ONE SON .... Keye Luke
The quality of these Charlie Chan
thrillers has drifted a long way down
the scale since “The Green Parrot” put
the Chinese detective in the fictional
Who's Who, and Charlie seems to be
running out of proverbs. But he still
moves amid dangers and excitements
and can still extricate himself from a
tight corner with a flash of fine cunning.
In the latest instalment of his adventures
the trail of international spies takes Mr.
Chan from Honolulu to Berlin. He re-
covers the radio invention that was
stolen, but his son is kidnapped. He
must hand over the apparatus or his son
will be murdered. So Mr. Chan duti-
fully trots along with the gadget. But
he has first of all removed its inside and
substituted a transmitter in tune with a
vast squadron of Berlin police cars. By
testing direction the police soon discover
the locality of the spies’ headquarters,
and the rest is simple. Not so the pre-
ceding plot, for there are two sets of
crooks after the invention, and almost
everyone connected with it is either a
crook or behaving suspiciously like one.
At Sydney Capitol.
“Woman Chases Man.”
WEALTHY PLAYBOY, Joel McCrea
HIS IMPECUNIOUS PA,
Charles Winninger
ARCHITECT Miriam Hopkins
In this exhilarating comedy a wealthy
young man keeps a tight hold on a mil-
lion dollars left him by his mother, she
having collared half the proceeds of
lucky land speculations by his father,
whose weakness for buying dud inven-
Una O’Connor in ‘‘The Man in
Possession
tions has left him broke. To the old
man comes a starving lady architect with
plans for building a model suburb he has
envisaged. She finds him surrounded by
bills and bailiffs, but learns of the son,
due home next day from a trip abroad,
and conspires with the old man to rake
the youth in to assist in the scheme,
although he has already knocked the old
man back. Son arrives with gold-digging
woman (who aims to marry him) and her
foreign hanger-on, and finds strange
woman running father’s household, father
retiring to kitchen to watch results. The
battle of wits between the women pro-
vides excellent fun, helped along by the
architect’s two pals acting as menials.
Good directing ensures that it doesn’t go
off the boil once. At Sydney Plaza.
“The Case of the Stuttering Bishop.”
LAWYER-DETECTIVE, Donald Woods
HIS SECRETARY Ann Dvorak
This, one of the best of the Perry
Mason series of thrillers, has an ingenious
plot, is kept moving at a fast pace and
has a final twist that is a complete sur-
prise.
The episcopal gent, who gives the story
its title hails from Australia. He enlists
E.E. Clive in “The Man in Possession."
Perry Mason’s aid to expose as an im-
postor the long-lost and lately-restored
granddaughter of an oil magnate, indi-
cating the identity of the genuine claim-
ant. The bishop is then the victim of a
murderous attack, but recovers, only to
vanish. The mother of the real grand-
daughter convinces the sleuth of her bona
fides, and his subsequent investigations
take him, his lady secretary and his off-
sider through a maze of true and false
clues, which again link up with the bish.
The marshalling of evidence and cross-
examination of witnesses in the final
court-room scene are masterly.
Donald Woods gives a brisk, capable
performance as Perry Mason. At Sydney
Plaza.
“I Met Him in Paris.”
MARRIED PHILANDERER,
Robert Young
HIS WIFE Mona Barrie
HIS FRIEND ...... Melvyn Douglas
GIRL Claudette Colbert
The girl (American) is holidaying in
Paris alone ; is picked up by, or picks up,
Jean Anders, young, handsome playboy,
and his cynical friend George Potter, a
playwright. Between Anders and the girl
it seems to be a case of love at first sight
—but Anders has a wife. Potter promises
not to tell about the wife so long as
Anders observes the proprieties, and con-
stitutes himself a sort of chaperon on a
trip to Switzerland for the winter sports
—much to the disgust of both Anders
and the girl.
It is quiet comedy dependent on inter-
play of personalities, with a background
of ski-ing and skating in alpine surround-
ings. Douglas has never had a more con-
genial role; Miss Colbert, though a bit
too Pollyannaish at the start, builds her
role up neatly and convincingly ; Young
just has to walk through the film, and the
Melbourne girl, Miss Barrie, is effective
as an unexpectedly-arrived wife. At
Sydney Prince Edward.
“Turn Off the Moon.”
DEPARTMENT-STORE
PROPRIETOR Charles Ruggles
SONGANDANCE DUO,
Eleanore Whitney and Johnny Downs
One of those allegedly-musical con-
fections in which the young man plays
songs in the music department of the
store, the girl hoofs, and the latest radio
crooners and dance-band
come into night-club scenes. Saving
grace is Ruggles as the store boss,
addicted to astrology, successfully putting
over the impression of a man quick-
witted and resourceful in business and
most other aspects of life, but com-
pletely cuckoo on one subject. The rest
of it is merely a linkage of moth-eaten
situations punctuated by crooning and
tap-dancing. At Sydney Prince Edward.
‘Blazing Sixes.”
INDESTRUCTIBLE HERO,
_, T T "v t . i Dick Foran
CLINGER Helen Valkis
Set in the spacious days of .the trigger-
finger itch, this Western is peopled with
old friends —upstanding hero, scorning
the lead barrage of the bad men in his
dual determination to protect the gyurl
and bring the outlaws to justice ; side-
levered, bezonkered villain in the frock
coat and four-in-hand tie, who savagely
gnaws cigars as he plays general, from
the rear, to his army of gold-robbers;
sweet, innocent young thing who makes
the hero’s pulses race when she urges
him tearfully not to get punched full of
holes for her sake. Between acts of
daring suitable opportunity is given Mr.
Foran to croon about how he’d like to
be workin’ amahng them mavericks down
in Mahnterey, while the overgrown uke-
lele on which he accompanies himself
miraculously transforms itself into a band
of 40 performers. For addicts, there's
value in a fierce gun battle at the finish.
At Sydney Civic.
“Motor Madness.”
AQUATIC SPEEDSTER, Allan Brooks
HIS CHIEF ADMIRER, Rosalind Keith
Leaves the impression that one of
Hollywood’s more frugal nabobs hit on
the idea of using up some news-reel shots
of motor races, and had an assistant
electrician or somebody write a drammer
around them. It all has to do with an
honest young fellow who is to drive in
a race a speedboat owned by his girl’s
pa. Right nobly he spurns a dastardly
offer to buy him off, and this starts a
host of troubles for himself, girl friend
and an orphan boy who is dragged in
for no ascertainable reason. Of course
the h.y.f. finally wins by a coat of shel-
lac, gains glory for himself and pelf for
his prospective pa-in-law. At Sydney
Lyric.
“She Had to Eat.”
GIRL WHO HAD TO EAT,
Rochelle Hudson
ONE OF HER VICTIMS, Jack Haley
BIBULOUS MILLIONAIRE,
Eugene Pallette
HIS MAN Arthur Treacher
BIG-SHOT GANGSTER,
Douglas Fowley
A tangled yarn, but so full of amus-
ing incident that it never threatens bore-
dom. Miss Hudson is an out-of-work
young lady driven to various little
swindles as a means of subsistence.
Adolphe Menjou in “Cafe Metropole,"
coming to Sydney.
“Nerve and noodle” is her motto. Haley
is an honest young chap stranded in a
strange town by the whim of railway
tycoon Quincey J. Shand, who picks
people up while sozzled and throws ’em
down when sober. Haley is the double
of a notorious criminal, “Baby-faced
Burns,” and is continually being either
arrested or kidnapped by gangsters whom
Burns has double-crossed. Towards the
end the gangsters capture Quincey J.
Shand’s private railway train, but the
girl very cleverly outwits them. Haley,
for once in a way, has a straight role
which he fills very capably ; there is
very little singing, and chuckles are fre-
quent. Previewed at Fox Theatrette,
Sydney.
STAGE SHOWS.
Schneevoigt in Sydney.
Listeners were a bit better treated by
the A.B.C. with the second orchestral
concert conducted by Georg Schneevoigt;
they were permitted to hear the First
Symphony of Sibelius and Isador Good-
man’s beautiful playing of the Mozart


ĸ
m
nk
m
1111
&
s
1 Charier, Street,
Redfern.
To
Messrs. William Arnott, Limited,
Homebush.
Dear Sirs,
I am enclosing a photograph of my son “Alan
John' Selby at the age of 12 months. He has been
fed on Arnott's Milk Arrowroot Biscuits since the age
of 5 months and is fat and healthy. He is now 16
months.
Yours faithfully,
Mrs. Reba Selby.
During the past half-century over 40,000
photographs of strong, vigorous children
reared from the age of six months on
Arnott s Famous Milk Arrowroot Biscuits have
been sent with testimonials by grateful
mothers to William Arnott, Limited.
Qmottls
k
Concerto in A. The Town Hall audi-
ence. in addition, heard Prokofieff’s “Clas-
sical” Symphony and “Karelian Rhap-
sody” by Klami, the last-named a tempes-
tuous, confused, passionate work ending
with a vast burst of jubilation.
The performance of the Sibelius was
illuminating. The score gives but small
indication of the vitality upon which
Schneevoigt insists. There is little idle
dreaming here. Even if a passage com-
mences quietly and smoothly, an under-
current of tumult, gay or grim, soon
makes itself apparent. Wood-winds and
brasses \color everything, and these de-
partments of the band excelled them-
selves.
♦l* ‘l* 'l*
Melbourne Musical Competitions.
The quest for the “Golden Voice of
the Air” and the choralists’ guerdon
packed Melbourne Town Hall one. night
last week. The 500 competitors had been
narrowed down to eight, and some of
the finalists were sufficiently good vocal-
ists to make the public event tolerable to
people more interested in music than in
prize-winning. Kelvin Plant, the winner
in the masculine department, displayed
excellent tone and considerable feeling
in his two numbers —Schumann’s “Moon-
light” and Dvorak’s “Songs My Mother
Taught Me” —and Mollie Hislop did not
swamp Mimi’s song from “La Boheme”
and Alfred Hill’s “Waiata Poi” with too
much sentiment. Most of the contestants
were so anxious to please the hidden
judges, Harold Elvins and Thorold
Waters, that they made every word and
every note a major matter. It was dif-
ferent with the choralists, one body of
whom had come from Mitcham and the
other from Ballarat. Haydn West had
tutored the brigade from Ballarat and
Fred Watsford had furbished up the
Mitcham contingent. George English
and John Bishop judged their singing and
awarded the prize to the group from the
inland city for a fine concerted effort. A
mass attack by the combined choirs on
the “Hallelujah Chorus,” under George
English's baton, concluded the evening.
*b .3. .j.
Melbourne Lunch-hour Concerts.
If organist William McKie presents
himself with one of the wreaths that it
has become the custom to offer per-
formers on Melbourne Town Hall con-
cert platform, there will be no complaints
from the crowds which have flocked to
his free musical lunches of the just-
concluded season. He has earned a
more substantial emblem. There was
standing room and not much of that at
the final concert on Friday, and the mass
of attendant citizens listened to a pro-
gramme scarcely second in importance to
those of the fashionable Saturday even-
ing fixtures. Joseph Post, the A.B.C. con-
ductor, led his orchestra through a sound
exposition of the “Egmont” overture and
the Liszt symphonic poem “Les Preludes.”
He needed all his skill to guide his hand
through the bewildering tempos of the
“Polka and Fugue” of Weinberger ; he
was equal to the occasion, and it was not
his fault if there, were not all the tones
called for on his orchestral palette. The
A.B.C. Orchestra is as yet only a minia-
ture organisation. McKie made his
appearance in the solo part of the Handel
concerto, and Edouard Lambert led the
violins with his usual distinction.
CURRENT ARTBURSTS.
Royal Art Society’s Show.
The Royal Art Society of N.S.W., now
holding its 58th annual show at the Edu-
cation Department’s gallery, Sydney, is,
as usual, well supported by its older
members. Flower pieces by Albert J.
Sherman, romantic landscapes by Syd
Long, portraits by J. S. Watkins, Joseph
Wolinsky and Dattilo-Rubbo, seascapes
by Charles Bryant (dead, but represented
in this year’s show), jolly scenes by Lister-
Lister, low-keyed symphonies by Percy
Lindsay, pale sunlight by Howard
Barron, mountain panoramas by J. Sil-
vana, and old-masterish Cupids by G. L.
Trindall are the backbone of the year’s
harvest, and from it, this year, the Gal-
lery Trustees garnered a characteristic
canvas by Syd Long and an autumn
scene by Percy Lindsay.
Of a somewhat younger generation are
the bold, striking compositions of Erik
Langker, who has the rare faculty of
painting equally well in oils and water-
color ; the dusky ladies of Mary Edwards
(whose backgrounds are almost as inter-
esting as her subjects), and the current
experiments of that versatile painter
H. A. Hanke. Hanke this year is repre-
sented by a recumbent nude, “Siesta,”
the flesh really well painted ; a semi-nude
in a style that recalls Orpen—“Reverie” ;
some excellent portraits, a flower piece,
a landscape, and a figure composition,
“The Jewel Merchant,” which is hard to
fault in detail, but which just fails to
click.
Lance V. Solomon shows some excel-
lent woodland paintings ; H. Greenhill in
“Across White City” limns an urban
scene pictorially ; Alan D. Baker is at
his best in “School Boy” and just misses
in “Spanish Girl” ; John Allcott applies
his well-known and effective formula to
a historical subject—“H.M.S. Supply
Entering Port Jackson”; Tempe Man-
ning makes a concession to a cold season
in “Bowral Under Snow” ; Nevill Smith
brings a riot of gay colors from Pago
Pago.
Among the drawings, pen and pencil,
Walter Jardine’s beautiful penwork,
Douglas Pratt’s graceful trees and a
couple of line charcoals by J. S. Watkins
stand out. Loma Latour, the society’s
foremost sculptor, shows heads, busts and
masks, all interesting.
•I*
Finey Intrigues Melbourne.
Technically and in content, George
Finey’s Melbourne exhibition, which in-
cludes about 15 studies he did not hang
in Sydney, reveals an artist in revolt.
Melbourne victims of his caricaturing
include Governor Huntingfield, Frank
Clarke and Harold Clapp. That of Clarke
is outstanding; Railway-chief Clapp, a
trifle short in the face, has been given a
buzzardlike expression.
A couple of typical black-and-white
cartoons which tell their own stories are
“Youth” and “Apathy.” The former
shows a crippled war veteran shielding
a youth, innocent of dress and expres-
sion, from hint of further martial strife ;
the other depicts a park bench despon-
dently occupied. A water-color which
falls into the same category is “Looking
for Fresh Fruit to Blight”: rich fruits
represent the universe, and from a parti-
cularly diseased earth a human figure
is swivelling a telescope towards more
cleanly planets.
Finey’s flower studies, painted in lac-
quer, are particularly good and reveal
another side to the artist. “Bottle Brush”
has all the delicate detail of the plant,
and “Chillies” is a beautiful piece of
decoration in which the red berries stand
out against the darkness of the panel
background. The grain of the wood is
used to accentuate this background.
“Debutantes” is a typical example of
Finey irony in an equally typical Finey
medium. A spider is advancing along
its web towards several butterflies ; the
web is hung on real leaves.
It is an unusual exhibition and one in
which Melbourne is displaying more than
ordinary interest.
Herbert Kemble’s Paintings.
At the Wynyard Book Club, Sydney,
Herbert Kemble shows 30 landscapes in
oils, all Australian and many Sydneyside
subjects. His style, slick and vigorous,
the paint laid on thick, is reminiscent of
Buckmaster s. There is a tendency to
harshness and overaccentuation in such
paintings as “Long Reef,” and a failure
to disentangle planes in such composi-
tions as -“Darlinghurst Heights.” Prin-
cipal offering is a large symbolical pic-
ture representing a gigantic conventional
figure of the Savior, done, in blue for
some reason, gazing down at a world
about the size of a large pumpkin and
dotted with howitzers, fat rich men re-
pulsing beggars, dancers and other evi-
dences of moral obliquity. This is well
drawn, but the treatment is posterish and
does not appeal. A self-portrait is much
more successful.
*l* * •!* *
Boberg’s Zoo Portraits.
J. N. Boberg is the official photo-
grapher of Taronga Park Zoo, and his
photographs of the numerous denizens of
that dolnain comfortably cover all the
walls of one of Farmer’s Blaxland Gal-
leries (Sydney). To enumerate the sub-
jects would be to catalogue the animal
kingdom. It is sufficient to say that Mr.
Boberg catches his sitters in characteristic
poses, and that he has mastered the art
of reproducing to the best advantage the
texture of fur, feathers, scales, hair and
pachydermatous hides. Some hand-
colored pictures of bright-hued fishes in
the Aquarium suggest that here is a
wonderfully promising field for the prac-
titioners of color photography— particu-
larly the new cinema development,
Kodachrome.


&
7
\
n
WAKE UP ! !
BARTZ
Nature’s Salts of the Earth
Drugs are only a temporary
relief, but BARTZ, the
IMPROVED MINERAL
SPRING TONIC SALTS, is
Nature’s own remedy for
excessive fat, headaches,
rheumatic pains, sleepless-
ness, giddiness, high blood
pressure, constipation, liver,
kidnev, bladder troubles, uric acid, indigestion, skin
eonipiaints etc. Obtainable all Chemists and Stores,
CHEAPER and BETTER 1/- & 2/- JAaS
ROMANOFF CAVIAR
and RED KETA CAVIAR.
The favourite hors d’oeuvres.
Sold by Leading Stores and Served at all
Fashionable Resorts.
Repr.: F. W. L. Beckmann, 16-20 Bridge St., Sydney.
ķ
WILCOX, SMITH & CO
Postage Stamp aierchants,
Liverpool Street,
Dunedin, N.Z.
16 Page Buying anil
Selling List Free.
Established 49 years.
Bankers: The Union
If any illustration in The Bulletin
takes your fancy, write to the manager,
who will quote you price for the original.
Public Notice.
Enquiry for Next-of-kin.
IN the Supreme Court of New Zealand,
Northern District, Auckland Registry No.
M134/37. In the estate of JOHN CARR
KING, late of Auckland, in New Zealand,
Gardener, deceased.
PURSUANT to an order of the Court the
persons claiming to be the next-of-kin accord-
ing to the Statutes for the distribution of the
intestate estate of John Carr King, late of Auck-
land, Gardener, deceased, living at the time of
his death on the Bth day of November, 1911,
and all persons claiming through or under them
are to come in and prove their claims at the
chambers of the Registrar of the Supreme
Court at Auckland, in New Zealand, on or be-
fore the 31st day of December, 1937. Failure
to lodge claims by the 31st day of December,
1937, will exclude persons from benefit. Claims
must be in writing verified by affidavit. The
amount of the fund available for distribution
is approximately £3OOO.
DATED the 16th day of July, 1937.
J. C. MALFROY, Registrar.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Percy Lindsay was one of the much-
congratulated at the. Royal Art Society s
show last Saturday. The Gallery bought
one of his showings. “The Lyric
Lindsay” was one woman’s apt descrip-
tion. A neat, concise prologue spoken
by Sir Hugh Poynter opened this
Royal Art Society show. The Poynter
lady was given a splendid bunch of
flowers in burgundy tones. Lister-Lister s
daughter, in a woodland-green outfit,
handed up the blossoms. Estelle Oxnard
Smith handed out catalogues.
Ted Scorfield brought his sister, and
was one of the lingerers before the work
of Jardine. Mrs. Norman Macleod’s hat
was one of the afternoon’s joys. It
started to be a sailor and ended by being
provocative. Its only trimming was a
double hibiscus, in pinky-gold organza.
She and her husband were off to the
party arranged by the Francis Andersons
as farewell to the departing French Con-
sular Suzors. General opinion seemed
to be that Australia will have to grow a
special crop of laurels for Hanke. The
Erik Langkers, her caped ensemble the
most delicate of jade greens, were there.
Charlie Bryant brightened the walls in
two scenes of Concarneau ; good news
for collectors is that there is to be an
exhibition of the late artist’s work at
Anthony Horderns’. The rich blue of
the pueblo tiles in Nevill Smith’s old
Mexican buildings drew every woman’s
eye. Joseph Wolinski, the Will Ashtons,
the Dattilo-Rubbos, Syd Long, whose
Central-square drew all artists, and
Alfred Coffey were notables.
Smart visitors were Mrs. Claude
Plowman, Deetje Andriesse and Flora
Danciger. In the press D. H. Souter’s
daughter Helen could be seen with Mrs.
MacMillan. Mary Edwards and Mrs.
Vernon Cole moved serenely tall, and
able to see over most heads. For three-
quarters of the afternoon this writer had
an almost continuous view of gents’
tailorings. As usual in crowds, small
children wormed their way in till they
were in the very front row before the
pictures. Trix Tange, fresh from a four
months’ broadcasting tour, was among
the much-greeted.
Australian writer Harry Tighe received
an exciting letter from France the other
day telling him he had been awarded the
silver medal of the French Institute of
Literature and Arts. This is principally
for his two books, Women of the Hills
and Joanna of Castile. The critics were
unanimous in extolling the French atmo-
sphere and the insight of French char-
acter shown in these works. Joanna of
Castile, in case you have forgotten, too,
was a daughter of Ferdinand and Isabella,
and sister to the unfortunate Catherine of
Aragon.
A jockey, white-breeched, blue-
jacketed, rode to win at City Tattersall’s
Ball. His gee was of marigolds and Ice-
land poppies. This spirited riding took
place on J. Conlon’s table, which was
sportily embellished on each side with
a full-size jockey cap, one of marigolds,
with its peak of violets ; the other, of pale-
pink stocks, also ran to a violet brim.
This ball filled the Trocadero, and by
ten o’clock the attendance must have
been a soothing sight to representatives
of the nine hospitals that will benefit.
The flower effects were fragrant advance
models of spring horticulture. The
official table —around which the Mayoress
and chairman Gus Mooney and daughter
Helen, together with ’Other committee
members and the Ministerial Mr. Dun-
ningham, foregathered—blazed with pink
and red carnations, stocks, violets and
sweet-peas.
Mayoress Parkes received 20 debs, at
the hands of Mrs. George Herdsman.
Ivory chiffons patterned in silver were
worn by Mrs. Parkes. Mrs. Herdsman’s
chiffons were lilac in toning ; her sash
held rainbow greens, blue and rose. The
debs, were in white, and all carried tight
little posies of white camellias and lily-
of-the-valley. Two small flower-girls in
hooped frocks of primrose satin and
powdered headdress (wigs of white wool)
joined in the minuet which was the finale
to the presentation act. Helen Mooney’s
frock was of mist-grey chiffons. Lilian
Armfield was handsome in sapphire-
blues. Mavis Carmody represented the
Children’s Hospital very daintily in Nile-
greens and silver. Over her hair she wore
one of the new glamor veils. Mrs. W.
E. Hopkins had an unusual train to her
backless coral moires. This commenced
as bands of blue, jade and rose. These
continued below the waist, where they
were caught by the same colored flowers,
growing gradually wider till they were
the full width of the back panel. Night’s
treasurer was Edward Johnston ; the
secretary, Pat O’Leary,
Miriam Hyde and Phyllis Burnard
teamed up for a recital last week at the
Conservatorium. Miriam’s father and
, a . nd , ? au ) m f W^ er ® f
taffeta drew a e flouncy a fi l ain of tiny frills,
a "d she played the great composers with
classic serenity and power, and hei own
works Wlt h a sparkling freedom which
won rounds of applause. Phyllis Bur-
nard, though Ju st recovering from a
mixed bout of flu and bronchitis, sang
with charm and musicianly feeling. Her
fr?ck was of Persian-red romaine, and
glittered at neckline and waist with orna-
ments of French paste
Hdda Aiken, just back from a visit
to the U.S.A., where she took a re-
fresher course in children s class singing
and choir work. The Sydneyite special-
ise<i m tbls in her student days in
America. The boys’ choirs in the great
churches along Fifth-avenue, especially
the effects they achieve in Gregorian
music, fill her with enthusiasm. She has
a vivid story to tell of the Easter church
parade, which is quite a feature of New
York. Many of the big Episcopal
Catholic and Christian Science churches
are set along Fifth-avenue, and on
Easter Sunday, which is the day when
everyone puts on the newest and best,
the avenue is a sleek procession of the
richly plumaged.
This observer found traces in Uncle
Sam’s domain of the lingering hand of
depression. People are more cautious
and more thrifty. One tendency has
been to cause many who previously
lived in expensive apartments to buy
their own homes, even if they have to be
tiny ones some way out from the city.
Katharine Cornell was drawing crowded
houses , with her “Candida,” which Miss
Aiken says is an exquisite production.
Katharine is an ex-pupil of the Merrill
school. This school, like many of the
finishing schools of America, has a small
and well-equipped theatre. Needless to
say, in her day the actress was the
bright and particular star. When Miss
Aiken made her home in New York
some years ago she was attached to the
staff of Merrill, and used to hear much
of the brilliant ex-pupil. The Metro-
politan with Flagstadt, Lily Pons in
“Coq d’Or,” Marion Anderson, a colored
singer with a rich contralto who puts on
programmes of lieder and opera, the
Philharmonic Symphony Orchestra, to
hear which she paid 10 shillings for a
seat away up near the roof, are among
things remembered. Montgomery Dunn
photograph.
Isn’t it time there was ‘ some sort of
heating installed at the Conservatorium?
During winter months concertgoers
shiver through two or two and a half
hours in its frigid atmosphere. If the
authorities don’t put in radiators, they
should hand out hot-water bottles. Even
the most ardent music-lovers are begin-
ning to murmur.
Australia hailed with delight the news
that American actress Katharine Cornell
intended visiting Australia. But its face
fell when it was rumored that she in-
tended including such elderly warhorses
as “Barretts of Wimpole-street,” “St.
Joan” and the like in her repertoire. Of
course, normally we’re restricted to re-
vivals, but it might be just as well for
Miss Cornell to know that we suffer
rather than embrace them. Not only
have we had overseas artists doing the
“Barretts” and “St. Joan,” but amateur
groups have presented them. What Aus-
tralian audiences are languishing for is
brand-new and up-to-date drama, some-
thing that has had a good run in New
York and London. At least let us see
what the rest of the world is applauding.
Jean McEvoy and “Chick” Arnold,
a comedian, staged a midnight wedding
of their own last week. Jean, an attrac-
tive 22, first met her husband on a
launch picnic. She was one of the
workers for St. Vincent’s Hospital.
Every writing society is ordering a
cut off the cold joint, chop or salad for
a midday snack in honor of Mrs. Denis
Browne, who was Helen Simpson. As
Helen Simpson she is a noted novelist,
Boomerang being one of her most
widely-known works. The Australian
has also had success in collaboration
with Clemence Dane, after whom her
small daughter is named. Helen arrives
on the Bth. If the P.E.N. Club enter-
tains her, that meal, at least, will be a
hot pot, for the P.E.N. is a dinner club.
Thelma Thomas, the young Adelaide
fashion designer who was responsible for
the dressing of the S.A. and Vic. Cen-
tenary Pageants, is in Sydney, attached
to the 150th Anniversary Celebrations
Committee and doing similar work. For
various Australian centenary celebra-
tions, Thelma has designed 500 costumes,
and when her work for the Sydney
sesqui-centenary is completed this
number will probably be doubled. Miss
Thomas, who is in her early twenties,
once taught design in an Education De-
partment school in S.A. She served her
apprenticeship in theatrical design with
an experimental theatre in Adelaide.
Besides having a lot of fun, the Fellow-
ship of Australian Writers raised £l2O
from its ball at David Jones’s. A cheque
for this amount was handed over to the
president of the committee, Mrs. Norman
Lowe, who passed it on to the F.A.W.
president.
If you were at the Conservatorium
productions of “Orpheus” and “Shamus
O’Brien” you haven’t forgotten the
sparkle of Jean Watson in the parts of
Orpheus and Nora. Jean, who is a con-
tralto, will give her first recital on Aug.
12 at the Conservatorium with William
Mason. He was the leading basso in
“Don Giovanni.” The accompanist for
both singers will be William Davis.
Photograph from Freeman.
Sydney’s most venerable ballroom,
Paddington Town Hall, stepped back a
few years and masqueraded as Noah’s
Ark. As in the beginning of things, this
was to help the animals. Mr. and Mrs.
Noah, from the recent production of
Obey’s play, came to the party and
brought a few of their wet-weather
boarders with them, tigers and lions
among them. Mickey and Minnie
Mouse, the modern descendants of the
Ark’s original nibbler, helped show
people to their tables. When suppertime
came a long procession, two by two,
walked into the ark which was the en-
trance to the annexe, while a giraffe, his
head out of an upper window, seemed
to keep tally.
Mrs. Bill Wentworth, the president, was
a study in ivory and gold. Her flowers
were orchids and lily-of-the-valley, and
she carefully picked a matching button-
hole for her husband. This ball, as
usual, was well attended and richly
dressed. White satin, sumptuous with
gold embroideries, was worn by Mrs.
Dick Allen. This was backless, had a
flaring peplum and gold metal shoulder-
straps. Black net and white camellias
formed Mrs. Bowie Wilson’s picturesque
wear. Nice girls in white were Helen
Dutton, from Adelaide, and Wendy
Burge. Diane and Lucille Dupain were
others who remembered their dumb
friends. Mrs. Reg. Bettington was a
smart dresser, her frock as wine-
empurpled as a Swinburne poem. White
chiffons and pearls mingled well with
Robin Eakin’s youth. Betty Minnett and
Nancy Hicks did good trade in button-
holes, and Minister for Health Fitz-
simons and Mrs. Fitzsimons were among
the bright.
The school kids of the world should
combine to buy diamond tiaras for Mrs.
Beatrice Ensor and other members of
the New Education Fellowship. No
homework and no examinations are their
demand for youth. From August 9
to 15 leaders in education will
confer in Sydney, and during that
time the simple old plan of the
three Rs, “rod, rousing and righteous-
ness,” will be measured against brighter
and newer schemes for child-mind de-
velopment. Mrs. Beatrice Ensor, who
was the first of the conferrers to arrive
in Sydney, has her home in South
Africa, where she manages her own
10,000-acre farm. Before her marriage
she was an inspector of schools in Eng-
land. Her principal interest outside her
farming is the New Education Fellowship,
which she founded and of which she is
president. Its members, like herself, are
anxious to see orthodox methods of edu-
cation give place to a more individual
system.
The conference is to have a vice-regal
push-off next Monday night in the Town
Hall. Denmark, Finland, Switzerland,
England and the U.S.A. will, through
their experts, explain and demonstrate
the latest experiments and achievements
in education. A group fresh from a con-
ference in Maoriland arrived by the Mono-
wai last Saturday. One wore a dark beret,
another a dark beard. One of the most
popular with the youngsters will be Mr.
Hankin, who advocates the use of radio
and films in schools. Dr. Susan Isaacs,
from the Department of Child Develop-
ment at London University, was with the
Monowai’s cargo of brains. On Sunday
a party of the intellectuals went off to
Brisbane.
The cabled news that Lord Beau-
champ has decided to settle in England
for some time came as no surprise to the
Australian friends with whom he has
been corresponding. After the tragically
sudden death of his son Hugh, the earl
returned to England, but only for a few
days. Then he renewed his travels in
Middle Europe, and later in the north
of Africa. He had said in one letter
“my thoughts are with Australia, but
my children need me,” and in another
he spoke of being at Madresfield for the
coming-of-age of his youngest son, which
will be towards the end of the year. The
earl’s friends at the Bondi Surf Club will
miss his genial presence this summer.


Something Different
in Recipe Books
0
0
<§
&
-M. M
ĸ
31-
::
, e o«* t *l
s^ssll-:
* *£** '
* V.,.' C -n-9 e . c>*P,.W«VL.nV'-,«'-
*«•' .*•*%«•*,.*»«•,,.» S’V**
•fO*' 1 '
V*' w.Wo‘
'pht** '
*K\ « .**v.V*’
- " "
»■"*, »£: n * -;■;. sS>> *£ s
. o\«- -..•'
..
■ 4 >*??
4,oi»S*> i -iV. • J <»'
»*SVS» 'SSV
...- - lS& . »•• i.'”**
''y^ *<**?“s!*■ c*
■hz'" • tK >■ >3
c< r-"-:“";5 s ‘
,V« A a\*"?
* ;U *'s *
* ,<> ««•
feSsjif>* r «?' t ,v“i;
«'>'’ >e '* ,o« a *jc« *s■ , c >*«'° * ,f
***;<
V** <IX
a VST.
■*£*<
c . «**V
*•*
s* v . «*&•#**
*« }o% '?,' 'T» >V“' ***«’**' v"
<?' , ’ > °"
w».t «»s» ‘j;vv»rt. a
,<* A .*' . '» A j*l * vW°
**>*• cifTs- ,
- ft * >* Vi " --*
»>**L kZ*<Z' *T -*” 1
tmm^-
‘ v '.‘V-* .... >
jpste&t'
• *V* « 50 * «**•» J *°V
t£ v „,<r*ss>"*
«•' , './’A'.vv'
:&£■s>•: ’S'*'
O-' oi ♦
v^'c
*'oo'
V-'VjA
C.OO
c< 4 - .v. . .
z „. -
f v,
0"\ t-**to**°^v
*V \* ''^
VoVV-^"'*
□
The book should be
in every kitchen, especially
where meals are prepared for anyone on a measured diet. It has
been edited by a lady doctor who has given the food values of over
2000 of the recipes.
Send in this registration form at once, and next week post a
coupon from “The Woman’s Mirror,” with 3/- (plus Bd. if the
book is to be posted), to Cookery Book, Box 252188, G.P.0.,
Sydney.
RESERVATION
FORM
(Send no Money
Now)
Please Reserve for me one “Woman’s Mirror’’ Recipe
Book.
Name
Address
State
(You can post this form in an unsealed envelope for Id.)


Legal Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
BETWEEN HELEN COURTIER BRASIER
Petitioner
And CECIL ROWLAND BRUCE
BRASIER (also known as JAMES CECIL
ROWLAND and JAMES CECIL BRAS-
SIER) Respondent.
TO CECIL ROWLAND BRUCE BRASIER
(also known as JAMES CECIL ROW-
LAND and JAMES CECIL BRASSIER).
TAKE NOTICE that in pursuance oi an
Order made herein on the Fourteenth day oi
July a.d 1937 your wife HELEN COURTIER
BRASIER posted to you on the Seventeenth
day of July a.d. 1937 a written demand for
cohabitation and restitution of. conjugal rights
the said written demand being posted under
cover of an envelope addressed to you C/o
Leslie Brasier of 15 Valda Avenue Arncliffe.
DATED this Twenty-second day of July,
a.d. 1937.
R. C. TISDALE,
Solicitor for Helen Courtier Brasier,
8a Castlereagh • Street, Sydney.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1007 of 1937.
BETWEEN NORMAN ERROL SPARRE
Petitioner
And OLIVE PAULINE SPARRE (for-
merly Olive Pauline Stores) Respondent.
TO OLIVE PAULINE SPARRE late of the
Home of Good Shepherd Ashfield in the
State of New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said NORMAN
ERROL SPARRE has commenced a suit against
you in this Honorable Court and is applying
for dissolution of marriage on the grounds of
habitual drunkenness and neglect of domestic
duties and desertion for three years and up-
wards without just cause or excuse AND
lAivfi NO 1 ICE that you are required to enter
an appearance to the said suit at the proper
office of this Honorable Court on or before
the Twenty-sixth day of October One thousand
nine hundred and thirty-seven and in the
event of your not doing so within the time
limited or obtaining further time the Petitioner
will proceed and the suit will be heard and de-
termined your absence notwithstanding. A copy
of the petition filed herein may be had on
application to the undersigned Solicitor free
of charge.
DATED this Twenty-eighth day of July, 1937.
For the Registrar,
E. F. LENNON,
Clerk in Divorce.
C. M. GOSLING, Solicitor for the Petitioner,
56 Hunter Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF QUEENS-
LAND.
TO ROBERT BALL formerly of 144 Chester
Street Christchurch in the Dominion of
New Zealand Painter but whose present
whereabouts are unknown.
TAKE NOTICE that an action has been
commenced against you in the Supreme Court
of Queensland at Brisbane in the State of
Queensland No. 438 of 1936 by MABEL BALL
your wife in which she claims a dissolution of
her marriage with you and by her petition filed
herein she alleges that since the Third day
of September One thousand nine hundred and
twenty-nine you without cause deserted her and
have continuously so deserted her for five years
and upwards AND IT HAS BEEN ORDERED
that service of the writ of summons and
petition on you be effected by filing and stick-
ing up copies of the writ in the Registry
of this Honorable Court and by the insertion
of a copy of this notice once in the Sydney
Bulletin IF YOU DESIRE to defend this
action you must within sixty days from the
date of the last act done as aforesaid enter an
appearance at the said Registry and in default
of such appearance judgment may be entered
Twenty-eighth day of July, 1937.
(L.s.) J. S. EMERSON,
Deputy-Registrar.
STEPHENS & TOZER, Solicitors, 236 George
Street, Brisbane.
Melbourne
Chatter
Spring is here! The mass oi natural
(lowers worn by the women at Moonee
Valley on Saturday almost shouted this
cheery message. The sweet scent ot
boronia was wafted as fur-clad figures
passed by, and splashes of floral color-
lighted up the drabness of sombre top-
coats and utilitarian suits. Daffodils and
daphne were first favorites, but prtm-
roses, violets, roses and camellias were
not left out. The outstanding fashron
figure was that attractive young matron
Mrs. J. F. Chambers, in a finely-striped
jacket suit of pastel pink set off with
rvery dark brown stockings, flat-heeled
shoes of the same color, with her blouse,
hat and fox fur matching her hosiery and
footwear. Deirdre Grantham, suited in
grey, was bareheaded, but really she was
not much barer about the top-piece than
some of those who were hatted. At a
short distance away, it looked as if her
sleek coiffure, parted in the centre and
tucked into a roll from ear to ear at the
back, had nothing to keep it tidy, but a
close-up revealed the fact that Deiidres
head was encased in a very fine veiling.
A mammoth dinner party marked the
tenth anniversary of St. Vincent’s Hos-
pital Red Cross Auxiliaries. More than
400 women attended the banquet on
Saturday night, and the affair was con-
ducted with great dignity and much for-
mality. More interesting than the dinner
frocks were the decorations worn by dis-
tinguished women. The guest of honor,
Dame Enid Lyons wore her Dame Grand
Cross • Order of the British Empire, a
shoulder sash of rose du Barry pink
ribbon finishing on the left hip with a
bow and the Grand Cross. A Com-
mander of the British Empire Order,
Mrs. I. H. Moss, made the star speech of
the night, comparing women’s position
in the world to-day and yesterday. Mrs.
“0.8. E.” Daly, with her decoration
showing on larkspur blue, was the toast
mistress. Decorating Marie de Bavay’s
black frock was the Queen Elizabeth
of the Belgians’ Medal, in addition to
the Coronation and Jubilee medallions.
Philadelphia Robertson’s corsage was
smothered with decorations, the prettiest
one being a small white and silver star
indicating that she had been elected as
one of the Sisters of St. John. Another
of the decorated, Mrs. George Bovvcher,
in black velvet, with pink azaleas bunched
under her chin, was among the spokes-
women.
Although far away from the mother-
land, members of the Swiss community
in Victoria did not allow the first of
August, their National Day, to slip by
unnoticed. On the eve of the anniver-
sary J. A. Pietzcker held an informal
reception at the Consulate, and on Mon-
day evening the Swiss Club celebrated
the day with a ball at Earl’s Court, with
the patriotic colors, red and white, run-
ning riot in the decorations. Miniature
silver crosses, mounted on ribbon in the
national colors, were worn by those
lucky enough to secure these patriotic
favors imported for the occasion. Swiss
waltzes were danced to the music of the
country, the rhythm being of the speedy
order. The choral singing of folk airs
brought a whiff of edelweiss and memo-
ries of Alpine meadows carpeted with
flowers. The belle of the ball was Mrs.
Firth, a new arrival from overseas,
wearing a national fete frock of pale
green heavy silk with a pet of a muslin
apron, and a headdress of gold em-
broidery forming a spread-out-fan effect
at the back of her head. In white muslin,
black apron, black bodice, mittens and a
straw hat in sailor shape with fruit trim-
mings, Miss Tissot demonstrated how
the girls in the Canton Vaud looked in
their Sunday best. Frances Freeman de-
serves two pats on the back for her
spadework as hon. sec. Chef Stavffer,
who arranged some special delicacies for
the supper, was rushed off to hospital
to have his appendix removed before the
event, but chef Weibel undertook to
send the sausages of various sorts and
' salads of Swiss mixture to table.
As president of the Children’s Hos-
pital, the Latham lady handed over the
key of the new Craft Hostel at Frank-
ston on Friday afternoon, so that the
front door might be opened officially by
the wife of Australia’s Prime Minister.
The hostel is a vocational residential
centre for the young patients discharged
from the Orthopaedic Hospital adjoining.
They will be trained to become self-
supporting. Already some of them are
well on the way. Eileen, who six years
ago was considered a hopeless case, was
running round on Friday helping with the
afternoon-tea. Another former patient
who spent several weary years encased
in cement has a job on the switchboard.
Both hospital and hostel were redolent
with the perfume of stocks gathered from
the Harold Grimwades’ garden. This
couple also made a contribution to the
sewing-room an electric machine.
Marie Fraser had the satisfaction of
seeing installed the frigidaire which was
purchased for the hostel out of the Sun-
shine Ball profits. The boys of the
carpentering school are working on their
first order, a large aviary to provide a
home for the 20 sets of lovebirds, a gift
from the Wallace Mitchell pair. Flitting
in their temporary cages these birds in
their feathered jackets of silver-grey,
mauve, smoky-blue, yellow and green im-
parted a decorative note to the hostel on
the opening day.
Debonair Major-General George John-
ston rounded up all his friends, naval,
military and civilian, for a late-afternoon
party on Saturday at Yerangle, his home
at Caulfield. The host’s hospitality was
in keeping with the house, one of those
big places built when this was a land of
full and plenty. Decorations were, lavish,
large boughs of almond blossom being
used to beautify the lounge. Generosity
was also expressed in the cheery fires.
Some of the. delicacies on the buffet
tables outrivalled the color scheme of the
decoration, even the cocktail onions
being tinted. The smoking-room held
many interesting war relics, the host hav-
ing seen service in two wars. His daugh-
ter, Mrs. Ken Moore, in a brown outfit,
and his two big sons gave Dad a help-
ing hand. This was an au revoir party,
as the General is about to sail for a holi-
day trip to Asia.
Muriel Graham Officer, pictured here
by Broothorn, will be marrying Horace
Mortimer Marsh about the time this
page is on the news stands. Many guests
have been bidden to the wedding feast
at No. 9 Darling-street by the bride’s
mother, Mrs. Campbell Chomley, of
Kileen, Longwood, who has been in town
for days getting ready for the gay event.
For her tryst at St. John’s, Toorak, the
bride has chosen a wedding robe of
vellum-brocaded satin, the glint of its
gold being picked up again in the lining
of the long train, her slippers and her
pearl headdress. The bridesmaids, Roma
Chomley, Patsy Leary, Patsy Synnot,
Mary McKenzie and Rene Crooke will
also be wreathed and shod in gold, their
frocks being of billowy ivory taffetas.
John Chomley comes all the way from
Mt. Victor, Adelaide, to see that his
friend Horace produces the wedding
ring at the right moment'. The new home
is at Prospect, Adelaide, where the bride-
groom is a popular figure on the polo
ground.
Fanny Swinborn, Melbournes Eliza-
beth Fry, made her annual public appear-
ance last week at the yearly meeting
of the Retreat which her mother, Sarah
Swinborn, founded 52 years ago to do
the work in Australia that Elizabeth Fry
had done in England. Mrs. Swinborn,
who was a Quakeress, used to visit the
hulks where the prisoners were kept be-
fore there were prisons in Vic. Later
she visited the gaols, and looked after
the women prisoners when they were re-
leased. When prison-visiting became
almost a vogue the authorities decided
to regulate the number of callers by
creeds. The little Quakeress could not
get past the door with these regulations.
Not one of her sect was behind the bars.
However, the Rev. Edgar saved the situa-
tion by giving her permission to look
after those of his flock who had gone
astray. Soon after this the Elizabeth
Fry Retreat was opened in Argo-street,
South Yarra, and there to-day Fanny
Swinborn is carrying on with the spirit
of nobility, humility and kindness of her
mother, who passed on in 1902.
When Dame Enid Lyons said her piece
at the civic welcome on Thursday, her
sermonette on International Peace com-
pletely outclassed the speeches of an
archbishop, an alderman, the Deputy-
Premier and others. A few hours later
Dame Enid was on her feet again stress-
ing unity of Empire and all that sort of
thing at the Victoria League, and she
made another appearance in the evening,
robed in blonde georgette woven with
silver lame and pearls about her throat,
at the reception arranged in her honor
by the N.C.W. At this affair many had
a word to say, the ball being set rolling
by Mrs. I. H. Moss. The Moore lady
said something about the manner in
which some Australians behaved abroad.
In marked contrast to the Fraser lady’s
feathered diadem and dangling earrings
was the Salvation Army uniform worn
by her neighbor, Colonel Henry, to
whom Dame Enid paid special tribute.
The guest of honor never flicked an eye-
lash when the cameraman flashed his
light.
Pictured here is Stella Power, once
known as “The Little Melba.” Dame
Nellie herself bestowed the title. This
Australian songbird will appear in a new
role on August 11, When she will act
as hostess at the Royal Victorian Aero
Club Ball, on behalf of brother Cyril,
who is acting-president of the club. Stella
may also warble a bit. The early stages
of Stella Power’s singing career read
like a story that is too good to be true.
A fortnight after she had scored a
scholarship at East Melb. Con. Melba
appeared on the scene. A fairy god-
mother had come to life ; when Dame
Nellie left on her American tour Stella
went with her, and appeared on the
same concert programme as the prima
donna throughout the U.S.A., the star
not only giving her the chance of a life-
time, but also providing all her clothes.
Later it was through Dame Nellie’s
practical interest that Stella was able to
make her London debut at the Albert
Hall. A tour of Norway and Sweden
followed, with one brilliant performance
before royalty at Christiana (now Oslo).
Miss Power returned to Australia two
years ago, and has been kept busy sing-
ing over the radio ever since. Photo-
graph from Broothorn.
Coated in grey, with a thick bob of
Titian hair tucked tight behind her ears,
Darmora brought along her youthful
troupe of Hungarian dancers to say how-
do-you-do in tongues of all nations at
the International Club on Friday. Many
emigres helped with the chatting. Hun-
garian sculptor Woolfgang Elischer gave
greeting in German, with a spot or two
of Hungarian. Darmora, in her best
English, hoped that she would have “a
very joy time here.” One noted that the
corps-de-ballet shied at the cream puffs
and pastries. Their art comes first.
Darmora begins to set dancing feet on
the right path at six years of age, but
even were a student a second Pavlova
she would not be allowed to make a
public appearance before 16. Darmora
has dancing schools in Paris, Vienna and
Budapest. Dainty Ella Szakeras, one of
the young dancers, with follow-me-lads
dangling from a saucy black hat, was
taken under the wing of Madame Mortill,
these two being linked by national ties.
Ella has a Russian mother. Few recog-
nised a sombre figure in a camel-hair
brown topcoat as the dancer Bea, who
on the stage appears as a Buster Kid in a
suit of red-and-white-spotted American
cloth set off with a hair bow of jade-
green ribbon.
The liveliest figure who has come for-
ward expressing willingness to become a
woman candidate in the Parliamentary
elections is Rachel Robinson, who as
organising secretary of the Housewives
Association has been working for the
rights of the consumer for the last 14
years. In the bread war she fought the
millers to the last lump of dough, bhe
got her first taste of politics with the
People’s Liberal party, just after Alfred
Deakin had let go the reins, and cut her
wisdom teeth with the National Federa-
tion. In the. job that she is holding down
to-day she has had many opportunities
of seeing how the political wheels go
round. Rachel is a vital personality
with a head crammed full of facts and
figures relating to the everyday needs of
social life. If she captures a seat in the
House she will never be a silent mem-
ber. She hails from the Apple Isle, and
before drifting into public life dabbled
in journalism in Queenstown. Her
mother was a journalist, and her uncle,
the late Thomas Monaghan, was a well-
known Inky Wayfarer.
To be in the first flight of fashion one
must wear one’s watch on finger instead
of wrist. This latest fashion note is
passed on by the Titian-haired Helen
MacDonald, who has just returned from
a “picking-up-new-ideas” tour in which
she combed London, New York, Paris,
Germany, Austria and Czechoslovakia
for novelties for feminine adornment.
She stepped off the liner suited in brown,
with something at the neckline that
looked like a large bow of brown china
and earrings to match. This was a speci-
men of the new Catalin jewellery,
fashioned from a composition wrested
from an island off the American coast.
This season women will be able to deck
themselves with make-believe jewels
copied from the ornate brooches favored
by the Empress Josephine, diamond
medallions centred with emeralds or sap-
phires in fingernail size. Make-believe
jewellery has been brought to such per-
fection by German designers that one
cannot detect whether women are wear-
ing the real or the sham.


Make the Best Cough
Remedy and Save Money.
Wise folk save money by making their
own family cough and influenze remedy
with HEENZO. A bottle of HEENZO
costs two shillings, and, when added to
sweetened water, makes a supply equal
in quantity and superior in quality to
eight ordinary-sized bottles of the best
ready-mixed remedies for coughs,
colds, croup, bronchitis, influenza, and
whooping cough. Over ONE MILLION
Australian citizens annually use HEENZO.
Order from your chemist or store now.
The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
Fire, Marine and Accident insurances
effected at Lowest Current Rates
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims.
BRANCHES IN ALL STATES.
’Phone (three lines): 87361. 129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
THOMAS A. MAGNEY, Chairman. R. A. MANZIE, General Manager.
k
The
Flying
Scotsman
Non-stop run.
“LONDON to EDINBURGH,”
393 miles in 7i hours.
London & North Eastern Railway
FOR LUXURY, SPEED, COMFORT.
Descriptive booklets and full informa-
tion supplied on application to
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
7 Bridge Street, Sydney, and Branches.
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
“J. Want”: Exploration of Carnar-
von National Park, in the middle west
of Queensland, 200 miles from Roma,
has revealed beauties likely to make the
65,000-acre reserve as popular as Mt.
Tamborine on the N. S. Wales border.
It is described as reminiscent of Colo-
rado Canyon (U.S.A.), sheer walls rising
in one gorge for 2000 feet. At times
the gorge is only a few feet wide and is
rarely touched by sunlight. Here giant
tree ferns and maidenhair flourish round
the ice-cold waterfalls, and orchids and
palms grow precariously on the cliff
sides. The platypus frequents Carnar-
von Creek, which is full of fish, includ-
ing giant eels, and there is a curious
200 ft. waterfall almost completely hidden
by a rocky screen. Native paintings
and stencils are common, and relics of
ancient feasts were found in deserted
rock shelters. The few blacks who re-
main have become far more civilised
than their surroundings.
* * * *
“Mrs. Sinbad”: At the first sign of
the disturbance all but one of the native
crew of a vessel in Rabaul Harbor de-
serted. They returned when all the fun
was over, but were green with envy
when the skipper lined them up and
read a letter of appreciation signed by
owner and agent and addressed to
Toris, the No. 1 Boss Boy, who alone
had remained at his post:
Me two feller like givem some feller
mark along you. Catchem £2 along makem
good feller work long night big feller
goorier ’e come up. Captain, now me
two feller tink bell belong you strong too
much.
The boys get six bob a month.
❖
“X.T.”: The abo. census of the N.T.
shows that only 17,730 black brothers
and sisters remain. Of these, 7136 are
adult males and 5664 females, but the
sexes of the 4000 children are divided
almost equally. Half-castes total a
further 900. About 9800 are nomads;
another 2800 work regularly in super-
vised camps and 650 have work outside
the camps. The greatest number —3523
—are centred round Darwin, but there
are a couple of thousand in the Roper
River patrol area and over 1700 in the
north-west. Soon a native police force
will be brought into being to patrol
Darwin compound and the wilder re-
serves. If it achieves the proud record
of Urquhart’s dusky troop of musketeers,
who flourished in the days of the Palmer
Rush and afterwards, it will be well
worth while.
% $
“Kaloa”: Somebody needs to say a
quiet word in the ear of the New Guinea
Mandated Government about reciprocal
trading. Australia last year bought
£1,950,240 worth of N.G. exports out of
a total of £2,573,251. N.G. bought from
Australia only £542,052 worth of imports
out of £1,290,788. U.S.A.’s purchases
from the Mandate were worth £5 last
year, but the Territory’s purchases from
U.S.A. were worth £204,608. There is
something wrong when tinned milk and
cream worth £2400 are bought from
Uncle Sam against £8435 from Australia.
The U.K. bought £264,213 worth of ex-
ports, but it got only £184,821 worth of
business. John Bull and Australia were
easily furthest on the wrong side of the
ledger among nations trading through
Rabaul.
% % iH
“Dungeness”: It is to the credit of
Queensland’s Minister of Home Affairs
Hanlon that on a recent far-north tour
he turned down a scheme for establish-
ing a dugong oil industry in Torres Strait,
on the ground that it would interfere
with a sure and valuable native food
supply. Binghi goes after the big sea-
beast with a harpoon carrying a small
barbed point, fitted loosely into a long,
heavy shaft to drive it through the thick
hide. A grass line from the loose point
has a wooden float to indicate, the where-
abouts of the stricken quarry. The har-
pooner goes overboard with the weapon
to add his weight to the stroke, and as
soon as he climbs aboard again the boat
follows the float. When the dugong
takes shelter below, a diver slips a run-
ning nose round its tail, and it is hauled
to the surface. The beef tastes like a
mixture of pork and veal, and makes
excellent bacon.
* * * *
“Mundowie”: I back King Chooky
of Rainworth, Springsure (C.Q.), as
Australia’s oldest and wisest monarch.
I remember him as an ancient, prehensile-
toed person when I was a small boy 40
years ago, and at 90, which dates his
youth back beyond white settlement, his
hands have lost none of their clutch,
since he makes a comfortable addition
to his income by a tax he levies on
photographers. This is genius. White
“Here’s the local quack , dear — he'll fix you up!”
politicians have thought of methods of
taxing almost everybody else, but they
have never succeeded in getting away
with a special impost on kodakers.
* * *
“Jae”: Ashmore Islands (W.A.), re-
cently handed over to N.T. Administra-
tion, were annexed in 1883 by the Brit-
ish Government, though formal posses-
sion was not taken until 1905. Shortly
afterwards J. Wilkinson, an old S.A.
whip for Hill and Co., paid a visit there
and returned to Adelaide with reports
of guano, beche-de-mer, trochus shell
and deep-water anchorages. One ship-
load of guano was delivered in Adel-
aide, but thereafter the seabirds were left
undisturbed until 1920, when a syndicate
was formed to exploit the deposits. But
salt spray had deteriorated the phosphate
contents (the islands are bare of growth,
mainly owing to the numerous rats), nor
were the anchorages so safe as had been
reported. The islands were handed over
to the Commonwealth in 1931.
❖ * * *
“Gain”: There are now in Mandated
New Guinea 178 mission stations run by
whites and 1765 in charge of natives.
Staffs total: White, over 600; natives,
3000. Preaching places number 2300 and
“adherents” are listed at 292,562. So
there are twice as many missionaries as
there are classified white civil servants,
and three out of every five natives in
accessible but not necessarily controlled
districts must be Christian. And mis-
sions hold 40 out of every 196 plantation
acres in the Territory.
"Australia Jane's" Budget
A crowd of dancers were on the sta-
tion to greet Frances Scully, president
of the Operatic Dancing Society, when
she arrived in Brisbane, and she was
taken off to a cocktail party. Miss Scully
is here to make arrangements for the
examinations of the Royal Academy of
Dancing, to be held a couple of months
hence. Felix Demery again is to be the
examiner.
Budding engineers at Queensland Uni.
held their annual at-home in the draw-
ing office of the engineering building,
and guests were greeted by Prof. Hawken
and his daughter, Mrs. Hawken being a
sufferer from ’flu. It would be hard to
find a bunch of prettier or better dressed
girls; brilliant many of them are, but
not a bit bluestockingy.
Marjorie Dowling, who marries W. E.
Jakins on Aug. 7, came through three
parties in one day smiling. Morning-tea
was poured by her friends of the Union
Manufacturing Co., who gave her a
chiming clock. Mrs. Bernard Elsey pre-
sided over the afternoon-tea, and Ena
Blackburn the evening party.
Muriel Ramsay, who has been fare-
welled at several pre-teas in Toowoomba,
one of them arranged by her past and
present pupils at the Technical College,
was guest at a big tea given at the Bris-
bane Women’s Club by Mrs. Shand Find-
lay. Miss Ramsay goes to Maoriland to
marry William Newman Thomson.
Hostess and guests combined forces to
give her a study of wattle, the work of
Mona Elliott.
Over 150 guests were bidden to the
party at the Belle Vue given by the
D. J. O’Maras in honor of their daugh-
ters Joan and Elaine. The latter has
just finished her student days at Mande-
ville Hall, Melbourne, and the party was
her unofficial debut. Mrs. O’Mara, in
lily-of-the-valley green, patterned in a
small silver design, welcomed the guests.
Joan was in pale grey patterned with
red roses, and Elaine in white.
Suburban Theatres had their fourth
annual Movie Ball at the Carlton
Cabaret. The handsomest pair were the
Romeo and Juliet who represented
Leslie Howard and Norma Shearer; and
the funniest a pair of Laurel and Hardy
buffoons. J. F. Rogers and his wife
were host and hostess.
Guests at the social evening of the
University Women’s Club were received
by patroness Mrs. York Hodges, presi-
dent Betty Stephens, hon. sec., Sheila
Thompson, and vice-president Joan
Chadwick. There were music, plenty of
chatter and supper.
Before packing into cars and going
to the N.E.G.S. Ball at the Carlton, .22
guests were entertained at a fork-dinner
at the Fergus Boundys’ home. Hostesses
were Mesdames Fergus Boundy, J. 3.
Robertson, T. S. G. Brown and Geoff
Hinder. Joint hon. secs. Florence Walker
and Joyce Isles arranged the ball.
C.T.A. Ball in the City Hall, on the
same evening, drew a big house. Presi-
dent W. A. Ditchburn and his wife re-
ceived, and in the official party were the
Minister for Education and Mrs. Cooper,
Leader of the Opposition and Mrs. E.
B. Maher, Commander and Mrs. E. C.
Rhodes, the Neil O’Sullivans and the
G. W. Millingtons.
Frank Tose, American museum expert,
who is visiting Australia under the aus-
pices of the Carnegie Corporation of
New York, had some kind words to say
about our exhibits of natural coral and
casts of fish in the Brisbane Museum.
T. Marshall, recently returned from a
visit to the Barrier Reef, was responsible
for the sections admired.
Ballet burlesques seem to have caught
on. The Uni. Sports Union led the way.
and a collection of gentlemen who spend
their days—and some of their nights—
counting and entering up sums of money
owned by the general public—flung their
cares aside and provided the star turn at
the concert given by the recreation club
of the Bank of N.S.W. The “nymph”
was a delirious thing. As he cavorted
about the stage scattering flowers from a
wastepaper-basket that looked like bank
property, the audience frankly held their
sides. D. W. Garland, manager of the
Brisbane office, was host, and Mrs. Gar-
land assisted in receiving the guests.
Annual reunion of the members of
the A.T.N.A., Queensland branch, was
a cheery affair. Marjorie Mant produced
a one-act play; there were songs and
recitations, and Annie Bennion (one of
the G.H. nurses) brought the house down
with a mouth-organ solo. Dr. R. G.
Quinn presided, and was re-elected presi-
dent for the coming year.


DOUBLE
.DOUBLE YOUR MONEY BACK!
if Pepsodent doesn't show-up any other
tooth paste you ever used . . . bar none!
s
co'n
pep
foO
The New Pepsodent alone contains IRIUM
which Thrillingly Steps-up Lustre on Teeth
Because it alone contains IRIUM,
the new Pepsodent works on an en-
tirely new principle. It dissolves
film on teeth with an amazingly
swift but gentle action.
It thrillingly steps-up:lustre on teeth,
yet it is Doubly safe because it con-
tains no pumice, no grit! Doubly
delightful because it contains no
chalk, no soap!
The New PEPSODENT alone
contains IRIUM
IRIUM brings flashing lustre to
teeth—freshens the mouth—stimu-
lates gums—yet does so with the
safest action ever known in tooth
pastes.
Double Your Money Back
Try the New Pepsodent Tooth
PEPSODENT
The Special Film-Removing Tooth Paste
THE 2/- SIZE IS THE MOST ECONOMICAL
THE PEPSODENT CO. (AUST.) PTY. LTD.
(INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA)
Paste, and if, in your opinion, it
does not give you Double the thrill,
Double the safety and Double the
delight of any tooth paste you ever
used—bar none—we will give you
Double your money back.
Just post the partially used tube to
The Pepsodent Co. (Aust.) Pty.
Ltd., Melbourne, and we will send
you double what you paid plus
postage.
USES
High-Polish Your Teeth FREE
This coupon entitles you to a
free generous supply of the new
Super-Soft High-Polish Pepso-
dent Tooth Paste. Just mail
to the Pepsodent Co. (Aust.;
Pty. Ltd., Dept. -No. 4. Box
488 G, Melbourne, C.l.
Name
Address....
City
AU 7372 D
.State.
DEBILITY
WEAKNESS
MALNUTRITION
NERVES
Of all the ailments which affect
women and children, the worst so far
as sowing the seeds of weakness and
illhealth in later life is concerned, is
Anaemia.
Anaemia ia an insidious disease in which the
blood becomes impoverished and deficient ni
red corpuscles. It is associated with distressing
symptoms of weakness, depression, poor appetite
and nervous debility. In such conditions
Roboleine is the ideal preparation as in addition
to wonderful body and nerve building constitu*
ents, it Contains Red and White bone marrow,
the richest blood making elements known to
Medical Science. After a few doses the red
corpuscles increase at an astonishing rate, the
appetite improves and soon all nervous fears
and depression vanish, indicating a speedy return
to normal health, and the capacity to enjoy life
to the full.
RDBOLEINE
(Made in England)
The best protective and
health restoring food
coov>°?
str« e ,
419
lot
tH»V‘
?w
clo»«
t*ttW
g.doej
\ei»*
Kobo
Mam*
Adir
When in Sydney Visit
THE AUSTRALIAN
ART EXHIBITION
“The <J\Aacleod Qallery”
252 Qeorge Street
(Near Bridge Street).
NEW PICTURES BY THE BEST
AUSTRALIAN ARTISTS
Admission Free
THE LITTLE SISTERS.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
The Ad. Club Ball at the Palais Royal
was one of the year’s gayest. A. L. Searcy
entertained a large party in his box, and
G. A. J. Macdonald had in his party the
George Macdonalds, of Norseman
(W.A.), Miss B. Schepisi, of Lakes
Entrance (Vic.), I. R. Lightner (Mel-
bourne) and B. Dudley Ryder (England).
In aid of the East Torrens branch of
the M.B.H.A. two successful bridge-
parties were held at the home of Mrs.
Lloyd Dumas, North Adelaide. The
spacious rooms accommodated 70 tables,
and large log fires and radiators defied
the cold. Almond blossoms, poinsettias
and Iceland poppies made a good show.
The drawing-room was arranged with
pink roses and mauve sweet-peas to tone
with the coloring. Refreshments on
buffet lines were served in the dining-
room, afternoon and evening.
When Parliament opened Mrs. R. D.
Nicholls (wife of the Speaker) and Mrs.
Stuart Matters (daughter of the Presi-
dent of the Leg. Council) entertained
wives of members in the dining hall, the
new carpet of which drew many admir-
ing comments. Iceland poppies looked
effective in large green pottery troughs
on the mantelpiece and window ledges,
and low bowls of mixed flowers decked
the tea tables.
Prince Alfred College Old Collegians’
Ball at the Palais Royal was attended by
over 1000. Three generations were re-
presented, and the oldest put as much
pep into the barn dance as the youngest.
Frank L. Collison, the president, and
his wife received the guests with head-
master J. F. Ward and Mrs. Ward.
A very unostentatious wedding was
that of Premier Butler’s daughter Jean,
who exchanged vows with lan Eversley
Thomas at the pretty little Church of the
Epiphany at Crafers. The bride, who
was given away by her father, wore
a swagger suit of saxe blue tweed and a
small halo hat of the same material. She
pinned a spray of brown orchids on her
coat with a diamond and opal brooch, a
wedding gift from Lord and Lady Hunt-
ington. There was no bridesmaid, and
only near relatives of the parties
attended. After the ceremony the
family party motored to the Stirling
Hotel for afternoon-tea, and the honey-
mooners departed by motor on a trip to
Canberra, Melbourne and Sydney.
Adelaide’s newest literary and art club
has among its members author Leslie
Meller, playwright Cathrine Brownbill,
Agnes Dobson, Alan Francis and
writers Richardson and Guthrie. Sec-
retary is Elva Wilson, known as E.
Muirhead Giles, poetess. Dr. Rogers is
the president.
WESTRALIA.
The Cottesloe Golf Club dance was the
usual cheery affair, with warm fires, talk
of the afternoon’s game and excellent
music. The Arthur Jacobys shepherded
niece Helene Jacoby, a visitor from Mel-
bourne, whose black taffetas had a
sophisticated air in spite of nestling white
gardenia spray. Jane Bunning (her
chiffons were violet) continued dinner-
party festivities and brought her guests
on to dance. Nancy Ward-Hughes’s
black chiffons were moulded on Grecian
lines and were engirdled with a classic
gold belt. Dorothy Lumb’s georgettes
were a confection of pastel shades, and
Betty Shann’s ice-blue ninons floated
shoulderwards in two angelic-wings.
Nancy Parker stitched hand-made flowers
to the neckline of her turquoise-blue flat
crepe, and Mollie Noble’s topknot for
her hair matched the floral pattern on her
rustling black taffeta.
Before going on to the dance, the
Frank Manfords, at their home in Pep-
permint Grove, offered coffee and
liqueurs to the Jim Cumings, the Norman
Gileses, the Fred Allens, who hail from
Laverton, where their sheep graze, the
S. L. Kessell couple, the Reith Rosses
and the Lance Barretts.
A crowd of Perth’s musical people
sipped cocktails at the Adelphi at the
A.B.C.’s reception to the Comedian Har-
monists, delightful folk, off stage and on.
The. Conrad Charltons did the honors,
the lady rigged in navy-blue wool roubaix
and tiny hat.
Among the latest engagements are
those of Jean King and Clem Lefroy,
both from tobacco-growing Manjimup,
and of Corrie Cornish and Keith Barker,
whose betrothal is of interest in golf and
tennis realms. Bonita, daughter of the
W. H. Leslie Rippers, of Woolandra,
Kellerberrin, has made her promises to
Fenwick Deane-Hammond, of Newcastle-
on-Tyne, England, where he is of the
legal profession—he is an erstwhile resi-
dent of the Kellerberrin district. The
Jervis Bay will carry Bonita off to Eng-
land some time in August.
The good wishes of Perth musical
circles accompanied Mercia de Mamiel
when she sailed with her mother in the
Esquilino for Italy. There she intends
embarking on an operatic career under
the guidance of Nino Marotta, who for
the past two years has been domiciled in
Sydney.
The Children’s Hospital coffers bene-
fited by the takings from the Bankers’
Ball at the Embassy, where red and green
streamers were gaily festooned above the
throng of dancers. In the honored-guest
loge were Dr. and Mrs. Battye, the Evan
Saws and the A. B. Joneses. Sheer black
lace graced Mrs. A. Brearley; Cathleen
Atkinson had quilted bits on black
tulip satin; Margaret Fitzhardinge’s
crepe was olive-green and diamente en-
crustings, and black silk net cascaded
over Millie Nickol’s floral satins. Molly
Arnold plaited a halo for her hair to
match the two tones of mauve in her old-
world taffeta frock.
At the Newman Society’s Ball at the
University, ten snowy debs., preceded by
small flower-girl Patricia Perrott, made
their bows before Archbishop Prendi-
ville and Mrs. E. Le B. Henderson, she
clad in a skilful arrangement of black
lace and georgette. Phyllis Bailey’s moire,
taffeta was mid-Victorian, while in
modern contrast were Nora Hanson’s
white georgettes agleam with sequin
trimming. Dorothy Tagney’s blackberry
velvets were encircled with gold lame ;
Laurie Ryan’s tunic of horizon-blue
georgette topped a swathed skirt, and
coral satin ensheathed Betty McDonagh.
As the producer of the three-act musi-
cal comedy “The Personal Touch,”
attractive Margaret Giles has revealed
yet another of her many parts. She chose
Mary Ward as her lead, with Stan
O’Brien playing opposite. Large audi-
ences each night proved that the public
enjoyed this amateur show.
At Christ Church, Claremont, Mar-
garet, youngest daughter of Major and
Mrs. Alan J. Love, Claremont, ex-
changed vows with William Edward
Sawers Ilbery, of Wickepin. Over the
young bride’s magnolia suede-finisheci
angel-skin cascaded a tulle veil which
fell beyond the long train, and was
crowned with a Juliet cap of Cecil
Brunner roses and mauve ageratum. Mar-
jorie Hammond and Dorothy Love fol-
lowed in picture frocks of shell .pink
and the same headdresses as the bride s.
Nephew Alan McCracken as a little page,
in white satin and lace cravat, completed
the picture.
TASMANIA.
The Leo Doyles gave an afternoon party
at Hadley’s, with Dr. Simonds, Arch-
bishop of Hobart, as of honor.
About 150 guests were received in the
dining-room. Mrs. Doyle was in
nigger brown, with a smart little green
quill in her brown hat.
Jean and lan Maxwell were brother-
and-sister-host-and-hostess at a sherry
party at their home, Sandy Bay. Guests
were young folk. Jean’s bright cerise
pebble crepe, frock had a roll collar of
novel design.
The McMinns continue to be wel-
comed home after their trip abroad.
Among recent parties given them were
tea, dinner, sherry and bridge parties,
arranged by Dr. and Mrs. Rogers, Dr.
and Mrs. Sweetham, Dr. and Mrs. Shugg,
the H. A. Nickollses and Mrs. R.
Whishaw.
Miss F. Gatehouse put up a record
for the Royal Hobart associates at
Rosny links by winning the champion-
ship for the fifth time in succession. She
and M. Sangwell had a good fight for it.
Friends of Mrs. Geoff Chapman, and
they are many in the Speck, were de-
lighted to hear of her engagement, fol-
lowed almost immediately by her mar-
riage, in Melbourne, to Captain Eric
Whitaker-Corney. Mrs. Chapman left
Hobart a few months ago with her two
girls, Mary and Diana, and settled in the
Vic. capital.
Marjorie Roberts was farewelled by
many friends before leaving the Speck
for good. Among hostesses was Mrs.
Vernon Crisp, who bade several inti-
mate friends to a tea party at her home.
One of the Speck’s promising young
men, Keith Isles, formerly of Oatlands,
has been appointed Professor of Eco-
nomics at Swansea University, Wales. He
left Australia for Cambridge in 1926,
and qualified for his Master of Science
degree with his book, Wages Policy and
the Price Level, published in 1929.


GUARANTEED
FOR TWO
FREE SETTiNG—
Selected steel, black handle 12/6
Extra quality steel, xylo. handle 15/6
Superfine steel, ivory handle 217-
ALL POST FREE.
Plum Razor Guards, to fit I and f blades, 3/6 extra.
CRAIG &. AITKEN, 654 George St., Sydney
The keen, hollow-
ground Plum
Razor gives a
velvety - smooth,
extra comfortable
shave. The blade
is perfectly
tempered. A 11
Plum Razors are
fully guaranteed
and kept in order
for two years
free of charge.
ASTHMA
A speedy and effective remedy for Asthma, Hay Fever.
NO NARCOTICS, NO DRUGS.
“ASMOGANGLINA
A new Combination of GLAND EXTRACTS imported
from EUROPE.
7'6 a bottle
Only available from the Australian distributors,
THE EUROPEAN GLAND THERAPY,
173 MACQUARIE STREET,
’PHONE: 81710. SYDNEY.
The Long White Cloud
Radio Research Development
The Government’s decision to provide
£2500 a year for radio research in Maori-
land will permit scientific co-operation
with the same sort of work in Australia,
where a radio research board has been
operating for the last seven years on
£7OOO a year. British postal and defence
authorities are keenly advocating the de-
velopment of these researches.
Prof. J. P. V. Madsen, a Sydney Uni-
versity physicist, told the January science
congress at Auckland (M.L.) that it was
unsafe to rely on the work of radio in-
vestigators in other countries —conditions
varied with localities ; and the work, valu-
able enough in peaceful days, would be
vital from a defence point of view in
abnormal times. So congress sent a
deputation to the Maoriland Govern-
ment urging the establishment of this
research board.
Electrical regions in the upper atmo-
sphere, variations in which influence the
reception from and transmission to dis-
tant British and European centres, are to
be studied in conjunction with Austra-
lians. It has been suggested that the de-
velopment of aviation, meteorology, inter-
Empire communication methods and
scientific investigation generally would
be materially assisted by the establish-
ment of triangular observation stations
at Sydney, Brisbane and Auckland ; and
now Maoriland has officially allied itself
with the radio-research cause the chief
obstacle in the way of this experiment
has been removed.
“Korero”: Here are three views of
Maoriland’s rising cost-of-living figures.
Christchurch “Press”: “It is clear from
the Government statist figures that the
cost of living is beginning to rise more
rapidly than money wages, and that
therefore real wages now have a fall-
ing tendency.” Wellington “Standard”
(Labor): “From the Government’s exam-
ination it is clear that increased wage-
rates, the transition of unemployed from
relief to remunerative employment, and
greater unemployment benefits to those
unfortunate enough still to be unem-
ployed have increased the money in-
comes to an extent which has more than
compensated for the general rise in
retail prices.” Manufacturers’ Associa-
tion : “High manufacturing costs
(through imposition of the 40-hour week,
overtime charges and higher wages)
have resulted in a flood of imports which
have glutted the market and blocked
orders... .The situation has become sud-
denly acute... .some factories may
cease operations.” It is clear that Maori-
land is beginning to worry about some-
thing else besides the Springboks.
* * * *
“Mak”: Another Maoriland County
Council has taken to the air to inspect
its territory—and this one did so in the
comfort of an aeroplane that belonged
to the Duke of Windsor when he was
Prince of Wales. The machine is now
owned by the J. C. Mercer and J. D.
Hewett air service co., which has been
operating in southern Westland since
December, 1934. The Westland County
Council, 4419 square miles in area, is
Maoriland’s largest, and the five coun-
cillors who recently toured most of it in
a few aeroplane hours have taken days
to complete past inspections. Some of
the flying councillors passed over dis-
tricts where they once farmed, and where
bad weather or floods can still delay
access for weeks at a time. The pack-
horse was the only other transport
method offering for visits to parts of
the county.
“Kohi”: After their first visit to
Maoriland, Australian farmers invari-
ably comment on the rich pastures they
saw across the Tasman. Three-fourths
of Maoriland’s agricultural wealth is
derived from its grass, so it is not sur-
prising that pasture research receives
more attention than in larger and drier
Australia. Contact with the farmers is
maintained by Agriculture Department
field officers, who pass on the practical
advantages of methodical pasture con-
trol discovered by plant-research scien-
tists working under the Department of
Scientific and Industrial Research. Plant
research began in Maoriland back in
1903, when A. H. Cockayne, present
director-general of the Agriculture De-
partment and Plant Research Bureau
Committee chairman, was the total staff.
To-day there are about 60 men engaged
on the work. It costs Maoriland more
than £30,000 a year, but steadily improv-
ing arable crops as well as better pas-
tures are striking evidences of money
well spent.
“I'm afraid you Were just a LITTLE too good for us.”
“D.N.”: Four Sunday Island settlers —
there were seven —have had enough of
life in the northern Kermadecs. This was
discovered by H.M.S. Achilles, playing
her part in the Anglo-American scramble
for Pacific bases, when she called at
Sunday Island in June. The four
wanted a lift back to the main-
land. But the Achilles was north-
ward bound, and the dissatisfied ones
must wait for the Government ship,
Maui Pomare, to call for them on its
return from Samoa. There are no regular
mail-days for Sunday Island, as its
rocky coast offers shipping no protection
and trade is insufficient to warrant the
risks always attached to landing supplies
and loading produce. The incident
should just about squash what Maoriland
Minister for Lands Langstone calls “hare-
brained schemes for the settlement of
Sunday Island.” The romance of island
solitudes has always depended on the
larder.
“M.”: Whether or not modern motor-
cars are greater potential road-killers
than the decrepit vehicles Minister
Semple has been chasing off Maoriland
roads (B. 27/7/’37) could be debated till
the cows come home. Certainly im-
proved trading conditions, along with
Labor legislation, have increased the
number of Maoriland’s motor vehicles.
At the end of June there were 209,494
licensed vehicles, an increase of 21,912
over the number for the previous year ;
cars alone increased by 18,446, or 14.15
p.c. In 12 years, Maoriland has doubled
the number of its motor registrations.
* * * #
“Waitot”: In Maoriland apple districts
the cider is generally worth trying. You
can’t buy a glass of cider from the
orchardist; the law prevents sale in less
than two-gallon lots. Thirsty people with
the taste buy the two-gallon jar—and
hang round till they finish it. Growers say
they’re sick of having their orchards full
of drunks, and they are seeking an
amendment to the law.
% * % *
“Fergus”: Another factor making the
Endeavour’s Maoriland coastal survey
long overdue (B. 7/7/’37) is that nearly
every earthquake in the last hundred
years has forced up the seabed in some
areas and lowered it in others. Portions
of Napier’s inner harbor of early 1931
are now being farmed, and, earlier than
that, slices of Wellington’s waterfront
were raised several feet; beyond the
breakers, along other coasts, reefs and
rocks have appeared from time to time.
Also, Kaipara Rock, known to every
skipper trading in Auckland waters, is
marked on most Hauraki Gulf charts as
“reported, but not examined.” Mariners
weren’t given this vague warning until
after a French. frigate had made its
acquaintance, the steamer Waimate had
struck it and the ship Kaipara had piled
up on it.
“Ticker”: Coastal charts now being
plotted by the Admiralty ship Endeavour
(B. 16/6/’37) represent only a fraction
of modern Maoriland’s mapping activity.
Since early in 1936, Air Force machines
have been photographing 1500 square
miles of the Hawke’s Bay province in
order that accurate topographical maps
may be prepared by the Lands and
Survey Department; in a few months
the first sheet, covering the 427 square
miles of country from Napier to a few
miles south of Havelock, will be ready
for the printer. This will just about
double the Maoriland area which has
been accurately mapped on a reasonably
large scale—there is less than 500 square
miles of it at the moment, although small-
scale outlines, some of which have been
pushed out of date by earth faults, exist
for the greater part of the Dominion.
H*
“Kiwit”: Comparatively few Austra-
lians are aware that Maoriland was in-
habited before ancestors of the present
natives first arrived. The Moriori race
has left little behind it; its mainland
members were quickly van-
quished. But down the West-
land coast workmen engaged on
the Karamea River protection
and harbor scheme recently un-
covered a human skeleton that
is believed to have belonged to
a Moriori. Significantly enough,
it was found next to large pipi-
shfcll deposits, and there was a
hefty dint on the back of its
well-preserved skull; evidently
the original wearer was caught
by Maoris, knocked on the head,
flavored with shellfish and en-
joyed as a cannibalistic repast. But
Karamea’s river flats have long been
deserted by Maoris, and historians say
the invaders themselves were eventually
driven out, not by the Morioris but by
fear of the earthquakes which a series
of upthrust terraces indicate occurred
there before the white people’s day.
* * * *
“Mac L.”: There is more to the. con-
tention that Maoriland is the easiesl
country in the world in relation to its
color-problem attitude than merely the
general application to its own natives of
the equality principle. Well over a hun-
dred Anglo-Indian mission migrants were
admitted before the imposition of a
comparatively recent ban, and, accord-
ing to a Presbyterian missionary in India,
several more may be allowed in next
year. Generally speaking, Maoriland has
found them to be good citizens —and it
remembers that, of 24 Anglo-Indian boys
in Maoriland before the war, 22 served
with the Maorilanders, and five of them
returned with decorations. These mis-
sion products are largely descendants of
early English settlers who married
Indian women, and, especially when
their Indian blood is derived from hill
tribesmen, they are not unlike Maoris
in appearance. Apropos, some authorities
believe the original Maoris started then-
wanderings from the Indian highlands.
# * * *
“Xo”: A touring Maorilander has
sent home a pamphlet advertising the
attractions of Japan ; he was quite an-
noyed to find there was no Maoriland on
the world-map it contained. “A lot of
the Japanese do not even know that
we exist,” he complains, in suggesting
that the Savage Government should “do
something about it.” But didn’t Aus-
tralia help Jap woolbuyers to discover
Maoriland?


ft
TURN THE DIAL ON
RADIO’S GREATEST ACHIEVEMENT—
The Mid-Season Models of
THE 1937 ULTIMATE RADIO
THE GOLDEN VOICE OE THE AIR.
Write for full particulars to
George Brown & Company l’ty., Ltd.,
Electrical & Industrial Engineers,
207 Clarence Street, Sydney.
’Plione: M 2544—3 Lines.
Sole Australian Concessionaires.
"RADI O”
The world-wide technical
authority of amateur, short-
wave and' experimental radio.
Subscriptions are 18/6 per year in
Australia, acceptable at “The Bulletin”
Office, 252 George Street, Sydney.
“Radio” is published monthly in Los
Angeles (TJ.S.A.) under date as of
the following month: 10 issues yearly,
including special annual number; the
August and September issues (which
would normally appear in July and
August) are omitted.
Copies are mailed to subscribers direct
from TJ.S.A.
Read “Radio” regularly and keep in
advance of the times.
“Radio” is the fastest selling of all
radio magazines—on the bookstall
, to-day, sold out to-morrow.
Subscribe direct and be sure of
your copy!
RADIO NEWS.
DON B. KNOCK'S PAGES.
SHORT-WAVE SIGNAL BOOSTER.
Many short-wave receivers with detector input or untuned R.F. stage
lack that extra sensitivity so desirable on weak signals. This one-valve
regenerative R.F. amplifier, outlined by “Short-wave and Television”
(U.S.A.), will greatly increase the range of the average short-wave
receiver.
In addition to greater sensitivity, a
tuned R.F. amplifier with controlled re-
generation will permit a better signal-to-
noise ratio. In certain types of super-
heterodynes the addition of a pre-
selector of this type goes a long way
toward reducing or eliminating images.
Then, again, receivers not provided with
coupling arrangements suitable for
doublet aerials will benefit in that a
doublet may easily be used with this in-
strument.
The main consideration is whether or
not regeneration should be used in the
booster. The addition of regeneration
provides an extra control, it costs little
and it greatly increases selectivity and
sensitivity. In fact, the regeneration con-
trol may be set at a point where it need
not be changed over the entire tuning
range of the booster or it may be ad-
justed to a more critical point for maxi-
mum sensitivity.
The method of obtaining regeneration
is via the conventional cathode tap com-
monly referred to as electron coupling.
The aerial coupling coil is mounted so
that it may be varied with respect to
the grid coil. This adjustable coupling
is essential for maximum efficiency. In
the diagram there are two methods of
coupling to the present receiver, the one
with which it is to be used. Most re-
ceivers of later design employ a separate
aerial coil in the input stage, while others
use the capacitive method, the aerials
coupled through a very small capacity
connected directly to the grid side of the
input circuit. In either case, the connec-
tion from a superhet converter will go
to the aerial position on the receiver,
and the B negative side to the ground
position. In the case of a receiver hav-
ing doublet input connections, one side
of the aerial coil should be grounded
when the booster is employed. This con-
nection will be the same when a com-
mon aerial and
ground are used
with the. original
receiver.
A number of
aerial systems may
be used with the
booster. Four of
the most promi-
nent and effective
are shown in the
diagram. One is a
half-wave doublet
with spaced
feeders; another
employs a twisted
pair for feeders or
lead-in. The twisted
lead - in arrange-
ment is more con-
venient, although
its electrical opera-
tion is not as flex-
ible. The spaced
feed-line will pro-
vide a wider fre-
quency response
than the twisted
pair, inasmuch as
a condenser may
be employed to
tune the spaced
line.
Another arrange-
ment shows the
Zeppelin, or single
wire with aerial
having spaced
feeders at the end.
Twisted feeders
should not be used
with this type of
aerial. While they
will work to some
extent, they will not
provide as efficient
operation as the spaced pair. The spac-
ing on either type may be from two to
six inches. The two-inch type insulator
or transposition block seems to be the
best arrangement
The remaining aerial shown in the
diagram is a half-wave with a single-
wire feed system. The distance between
the. centre and the point at which the
lead-in is attached should be equal to 14
per cent, of the total length. With this
system one connection of the input coil
is grounded as shown in the diagram.
The amplifier operates the same as a
regenerative detector, but the valve is
never permitted to oscillate. This means
that the regeneration control should
always be set below the point where the
valve breaks into oscillation.
In the 2.5-volt range, the 57 or 24’A
valves may be used, and 6D6 or 78 in
the six-volt range. For those who may
wish to apply a two-volt valve to a unit
such as this, the type 15 is ideal.
Coil data for any of the units are given
for 1 Lin. formers:
No. 1: 5 turns No. 24 D.S.C. close
wound, tap at one turn.
No. 2: 10 turns No. 24 D.S.C. close
wound, tap at one turn.
No. 3: 24 turns No. 24 D.S.C. close
wound, tap at two turns.
No. 4: 45 turns No. 24 D.S.C. close
wound, tap at two turns.
The aerial coil may consist of 2-5
turns, the smaller number used with the
twisted feeders and the larger with the
spaced feeders.
D.B.K.
Radio Comment.
“S.W.L.”: Recently I saw a small
detector and audio receiver using a single
19. Of the Little Twin type intended
for general short-wave listening, with
broadcast thrown in for good measure,
it was fitted with a dial of the type
supplied in these days with broadcast
station callsigns, wave-lengths and fre-
quencies. There was nothing of the use-
ful 0 to 100 degrees indication. Dial
manufacturers here don’t make plain
degree-indicated dials. There is defi-
nitely a market for dials of the old front-
of-panel, moulded bakelite type.
* * * *
“Norwood”: Recently I ran up a
seven-valve job for some friends living
in a small flat. Chassis was mounted in
a six-ply home-made cabinet, pierced for
dial and volume control only, with
French polished exterior. Mounted on
the mantelpiece it took up little more
room than an ordinary mantel-model.
Speaker connections were run up the
chimney into the ceiling, the speaker
being placed inside the double lining of
the wall, flush up against the back of a
ventilator aperture. The wall gives a
practically infinite baffle.
* * *
“Band-Pass”: “Norwood” (B. 21/7/’37)
refers to modern receivers working with
ipdifferent aerials, but performance can
be improved by a good external aerial.
Short waves will benefit particularly.
Best all-round aerial is a single 60ft.
length of insulated wire erected as high
as possible and clear of trees, but 30ft.
is ample in the vicinity of powerful
transmitters. Where electrical interfer-
ence is bad noise-reducing aerials are
useful.
* $ * *
“Flux”: Originally designed for class
B, the 19 is now used to a far greater ex-
tent as regenerative detector and audio
amplifier in “one-lungers.” It is as sensi-
tive as the P.M.I.H.L. with small plate
current at 135 volts. A rather high fila-
ment consumption against the .06 amps,
of small power pentodes of recent types
may account for the fact that it is seldom
used for the purpose for which it was
originally intended, although it is cap-
able when working as a Class B output
valve of delivering two watts of audio
power.
* * * *
Marconi was recently reported to have
demonstrated the use of micro-waves for
long-distance work by communicating on
these wave-lengths with a station over
3000 miles distant, very low power being
used. The report, from Rapallo, Italy,
referred also to a rumor that Marconi
had previously demonstrated the trans-
mission of power by radio.
Notes from Centralia.
Operator Eric Ferguson reports that
at Tanami, where the Mackay'Expedi-
tion has its base, short-wave stations
from all over the world are heard at in-
Eric B. Ferguson (left), radioman with
Donald Mackay’s 1937 Aerial Recon-
naisance Expedition in Centralia. Taken
at Hazel brook, Blue Mountains, N.S.W.,
during mobile five-metre tests in con-
junction with VK2NO.
credible strength. His contacts with east
and west coast Australians are quite good
performances for a portable 25-watt
station dumped down in the heart of
Australia.
At 9 p m. on 25/7/’37, after VKSNO
signed with the writer, VKSJT, of Adel-
aide, S.A. was heard calling him, and
contact was established between the two
stations. VKSJT is a veteran of the in-
terior, none other than Joe Kilgariffi
some years ago VKZ, of Alice Springs.
The reliable nature of the communi-
cation between the expedition and the
outside world is convincing proof of the
efficiency of the modern mobile station,
and more than satisfying to the designer
of the equipment.
VK2NO.
DX Reception from Plane.
D. F. Ohye, of Nundah (Q.), writes:
On Saturday, 17/7/’37, about .4.30 p.m.,
while listening on the 46-metre band,
I heard a test being carried out with
aeroplane radio. The speaker in the
’plane said, “You will possibly hear
the engines.” He also described his posi-
tion as over Randwick racecourse and
later George’s River, and that they were
about to return to the aerodrome. The
signal was strong and the voice clear.
Is there any chance this was the ’plane
going to Centralia with the Mackay
party?
[Yes. At that time the D.H. Dragonfly
with callsign VHUXA was in the ait-
over Sydney conducting initial tests with
VK2NO. This inter-State report is of
interest, considering the power of the
VHUXA transmitter is only five watts
on telephony.—D. B. K.].
The gold plaque presented annually by
the I.R.E. For 1936 it went to V.H.
Dudman, M.lnst.R.E. (Aust .), manager
of the Philips Lamps Co.’s Transmitting
and Industrial Depts., for a paper en-
titled “Transmitters —Some Observations
on Their Design."
Amateur Chatter.
Eric Ferguson, radio operator with
the Mackay Expedition, wasted no time
in getting into action on the 7mc. band.
On 24/ 7/ ’37 the writer searched the
band for possible signals from VKSNO,
and at 8 p.m. was surprised to hear
WSTF calling him. Despite heavy inter-
ference from static and charged rain
VKSNO was located and communica-
tion established. The expedition had
reached Tanami at 4.15 p.m. the pre-
vious day. It had been necessary to
have aerial poles brought by camel, as
there are no trees in the vicinity. The
signal from VKSNO reached R 8 plus on
telephony between 10 p.m. and 11 p.m.
E.S.T., a remarkable performance, for
a mobile station so far distant. Fergu-
son reported that, whilst Australian ama-
teur signals were scarce, Americans were
extremely powerful and caused severe
QRM. These conditions account for the
W 5 hearing the Centralian signal strongly
enough to attract his attention. The
work between VK2NO, the ’plane
VHUXA and the base station should
settle all doubts as .to the efficiency of
twisted pair doublets.
Though crystal control is no more ex-
pensive than S.E., one still hears signals
of the “chwa chwe, chwa chwe” kind,
particularly on 7mc. Perpetrators of
this breed of prehistoric signal either
don’t know the meaning of the word
“monitor” or hope that somebody will


Here’s ONE job
you won’t have
to do
•*5
No more recharging of a heavy
accumulator—with consequent blank
periods while this is being done—
if your new set is "AIR CELL
OPERATED."
Fitted with an Eveready Air Cell,
which with normal use gives you
over a year of uninterrupted recep-
tion—does not deteriorate when not
in use but maintains constant voltage at the correct level for
perfect reception, your radio needs no attention at all and is no
more trouble than an all-electric set....
If you buy an
AIR CELL
OPERATED RADIO
Air Cell Oper-
ated models are
available under the
following well-known
brands:
BRITON ECLIPSE
TASMA S.T.C.
PARAMOUNT KRIESLER
GENALEX LEKMEK
WELDON BREVILLE
STROMBERG- SYMFONA
CARLSON VELCO
ARISTOCRAT STERLING
(E.S.M.) ZENITH
SEA4A
' EQU/PPED WITH AN
EVEREADY
AIR CELL
take notice of their noise. People with
such signals may snare a few QSOs, but
they must lose hundreds to disgusted
hearers. There is no technical difficulty
in the way of a good key (or ’phone)
signal, and there is no excuse for a
poor one.
A failing noticed with many ’phone
stations on various bands is the ten-
dency to omit the prefix to the callsign.
The “VK” is definitely a part of the
call, and signals on almost any band
have a habit of arriving unexpectedly
overseas, even though two stations may
be chatting locally.
There was a 56mc. test day on
25/7/’37 between Sydney and stations
inland and along the coast. Several
stations operated in the Sydney area
with telegraphy and telephony, but no
DX contacts were noted or reported.
This time, VK2DN (Deniliquin, N.S.W.),
who heard the writer’s five-metre signals
on 27/6/’37, was known to be on the
air on schedule, also VK2GU. In Syd-
ney, VK2TI put in an appearance with
a .fine crystal-controlled signal from two
808’s in his final stage.
VK2NO.
An Amateur Afloat.
Alan R. Eurich (W8IGQ and WCFT),
who has been cruising around the Islands
in the yacht Yankee, writes from
Rabaul, N.G., giving some details of the
vessel’s itinerary and equipment.
“The Yankee, a two-masted Dutch pilot
schooner, 92ft. overall, refitted for deep-
sea sailing, left . Gloucester, Mass., just
north of Boston, on her second world
cruise on 2/11 /’36. The average age
of the crew is 22. This trip is the first
on which she has carried radio. The
equipment includes a transmitter, a con-
verted aircraft outfit using 801’s in a
M.O.P.A. circuit. The amplifier has
four in parallel push-pull. Power is
from a 50/500-volt dynamotor. The
receiver is an American product, a Sar-
gent model 12 [referred to in B.
23/12/’36], a four-valve T.R.F. type
with a frequency range of from
34kc. to 20mc. continuous. It covers
the short waves, the regular broad-
cast band for entertainment, the
intermediate waves for ship traffic and
the long waves for time signals, press,
weather and other special services.
It has proved to be one of the few
receivers capable of standing the high
humidity of the tropics and also the
frequent baths of salt water. [Sound
proof of T.R.F. superiority.—D.B.K.]
“The aerial is vertical. It runs from
the deck about a foot or so starboard
of the mainmast to the main spreader.
This is used against earth which is made
to the engine and the copper sheathing
of the hull. About 40ft. long, the aerial
is tuned with a loading coil to operate
at harmonics. The arrangement is very
satisfactory, and has proved itself in
comparison with transmitters of de-
cidedly greater power.
“For eight months now schedules have
been kept with the first U.S.A. district,
and very little trouble has been experi-
enced. There are days when the signals
from this transmitter and also the other
end are on the weak side, but both of
us can still keep our hooks clear of
traffic. This daily routine has been car-
ried on mainly with W1ZB and W1FTR
on 7106kc. The Yankee uses 8300kc.
Sometimes we move to such frequencies
as ll,040kc., or when we work the boys
on the 14mc. band we use 16,560kc.
"I work W1ZB daily at the peak time
for signals on 40 metres. At the present
time around here [27/6/’37] this runs
around 0900 G.M.T. After I clear
traffic with W1ZB I call CQ and scour
the 40-metre band for replies. Naturally
I use 8300kc. Occasionally, if condi-
tions are bad at that time at that fre-
quency, I tell W1ZB to stand by for me
at 1100 G.M.T. At this time I use
16,560kc. and he uses 14,00Ike. These
times hold for the present, but as we
move westward round the world the time
will shift with peak conditions.
“I do not expect to reach Singapore
before 1/10/’37, so I will be within
reasonable shooting distance if VKs
want to take a crack at working me.
By the time this reaches you I hope to
be working VS1AA regularly, and, to
find out schedule times, call W1ZB or
W1FTR. Those stations use lkw. each
and have directional arrays, so they will
be heard. I shall be only too pleased to
correspond with anybody interested in
laying-out a similar outfit or wishing to
run tests. Address is c/o yacht Yankee,
U.S. Consulate, before 1/10/’37.”
Here is an excellent opportunity for
Australian amateur transmitters to co-
operate over a lengthy period with a ship
at sea.
VK2NO.
"Bulletin" Test Review.
C Manufacturers ’ products considered worthy of
attention are tested and given an unbiased
report in this section.)
Philips “6505” Radioplayer.
This little table model is a combina-
tion of good radio engineering and at-
tractive appearance. The receiver tested
was a 240-volt A.C. model designed for
the broadcast range, taking in all Aus-
tralian and M.L. stations. It is a super-
het employing the AK2 octode, AF3
R.F. pentode, ABCI duo-diocte-trioae,
AL2 power pentode and AZ3 indirectly-
heated rectifier. These are all of the
four-volt Philips series, and dial lighting
is provided by four 0.3 ampere four-
volt panel lamps. '
In action the “audioscopic” feature
introduced by Philips this year is well
in evidence. Clarity of reproduction is
marked, yet there is no lack of the full
roundness of tone one looks for in larger
receivers.
There are only two controls, tuning
and volume, and the receiver is not be-
cause of its compactness restricted to
a small-size tuning dial; stations are in-
dividually marked. Sensitivity is such
that in an average location only a small
indoor aerial is needed to bring in
stations galore. In the table-model class
this well-planned receiver is a front-
ranker. The cabinet is modern without
being aggressively so, and for those who
may prefer something larger the same
receiver can be had as a mantel type.
D.B.K.
A Word for T.R.F.
Some years back the tuned R.F.
receiver faded completely from the Aus-
tralian market. The reason was its poor
selectivity as compared with the then
new superhet. Now, however, such
“straight” sets can be built around Siru-
fer cores with ample selectivity when
correctly aligned. A band-pass tuner
ahead will further improve selectivity.
T.R.F. advantages are improved tonal
quality and complete absence of back-
ground hiss. Also, the all-round sensi-
tivity makes it well suited to tropi-
cal conditions, and servicing is not so
troublesome as with the superhet. The
oscillator in a superhet consumes plate
and filament current without amplifi-
cation. This is of little importance in
an A.C. job, but not with the battery
set. England and the-Continent produce
excellent T.R.F. sets, usually three-valve
affairs. They have emerged in these
times with adequate . selectivity. Aus-
tralian manufacturers Would do well to
consider the T.R.F. receiver in modern
dress.
Tuner.
[This page has long advocated the
necessity for attention by manufacturers
to the production of special T.R.F. re-
ceivers for the inland, N.T. and Islands.
Correspondence from readers and dealers
in such places shows that trouble is ex-
perienced even with the best-designed
superhets. There should be little diffi-
culty technically in producing a dual- or
all-wave T.R.F. type receiver with ade-
quate selectivity between 200 and 600
metres for broadcast reception in distant
locations. On the short-wave side re-
ceivers of the Ideal Battery T.R.F. and
Wide-World Four type could be adapted
for switching and with screened Surifer
coils on the broadcast side. —D. B. K.].
Since trade restrictions came into
operation, radio manufacturers have had
difficulty in obtaining adequate supplies
of porcelain base insulation material for
such items as padder blocks and coil
bases. The English insulating material
Frequentite has now appeared on the
Australian market, and should do much
to rectify the situation. Frequentite is
used in most English components to-day,
and the manufacturer’s claims for the
insulation properties and resistance to
moisture are well borne out in actual
tests. The material has a wide appli-
cation in radio, particularly in transmis-
sion, and the importation of coil forms
for transmitters would be popular with
Australian experimenters. It is marketed
in Australia by Associated Engineering
and Cables (N.S.W.), Ltd., 352 Kent-
street, Sydney, also at 562 Bourke-street,
Melbourne.
Inductance Tapping Methods.
For tapping a tank coil crocodile clips
do not always make a good connection,
as they only grip half the wire at a time.
Most amateurs solder an L piece directly
on to the wire.
Diagrams a and b indicate two other
methods which can be used to advan-
tage. A shows a conventional coil with
a slot 3-16 in. or wide cut along
about two-thirds of the former. In this
way the tapping can be made from in-
side the coil by a crocodile clip, which
will grip firmly on to the wire.
B shows the second method, which
looks better but is more difficult to
carry out. Holes should be drilled in
the former before the coil is wound and
tappings actually made on the wire
through the former.
It is a good idea to utilise the second
method and to solder tapping points on
to the wire through the holes. The mid-
tap can then be made neat and tidv
inside the coil former. Soldering the
taps is quite an easy matter.
L.H.
The Question Box.
(1) How can 1 change six volts D.C. to six
volts A.C. ? (2) Is the current from a Ford
coil A.C. ? (3) Is the secondary current from
an induction coil, without the vibrator, D.C. ?
—573.
(1) Use a vibrator in series with the supply.
The output is not actually alternating current
but pulsating D.C. There will be some loss
in current output. (2) Pulsating D.C. (3)
There will be no current flowing in the
secondary until the primary is interrupted.
Direct current cannot be transformed in the
usual way. If D.C. is applied to a transformer
without interruption a dead short will be placed
across the primary windings.


V ItA-LIC K
For
STUD AND FLOCK SHEEP
Mr. E. U. Watson, “Greenbank,”
Young, writes, 318/’3O: —
“I have constantly used
Vita-Lick for the past eight
years, with great benefit to my
Stud and Flock sheep. In the
two recent droughts I marked
an average of 75 p.c. lambs
throughout the flocks, which
received a liberal ration of
Vita-Lick.”
THE FINER THE BETTER..
“Tri-cal”: Was interested to, see that
animal nutrition specialists recommend
a mineral supplement of fine grind. I’ve
found an excellent one which exactly
fills the specification and is pure, whole-
some and palatable and easily digested.
It is Tri-cal-os Bone Flour. It contains
plenty of that phosphoric acid —more
than any other mineral food I’ve used.
Suggest you get some. You’ll find it
much more economical and effective
than that meal you are using. No, I’m
not a crank, but I have-a healthy re-
spect for science and the help it gives to
those who are prepared to progress with
it. Yes, I recommend Tri-cal-os Bone
Flour. Davis Gelatine (Australia) Pty.,
Ltd., G.P.O. Box No. 35835, Sydney,
will send you a folder about it. Tell them
what stock you want it for.
Old Farmer.
m
*4
A/
k \i
The Richardson Chain Hotel
ĸ
THE
HOTEL
LONDON
99 Elizabeth St.,
(next Collins St.)
Melbourne
Hot and Cold
Water, Telephone
and Central Heat-
ing, Reading Lamp
to Every Bedroom.
MELBOURNE'S MOST
CENTRAL HOTEL.
RATES PER DAY.
Room and Meals .... from 12/6
Room and Breakfast .. from 7/6
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
More Shearing Preparations.
“Murrawong”: The shed should- be
overhauled in plenty of time before
shearing. Start where the sheep enter the
shed and follow the processes systemati-
cally.
The main doors or gates should be
easy to handle and fitted with strong
catches. Filling gates of catching pens
should receive particular, attention. In-
spect gratings thoroughly. A day’s wages
for a man nailing down loose spars and
mending holes and breakages is cheaper
than one ewe with _a leg .broken/ In
many sheds gratings are so. worn or
close together that droppings accumulate
in a solid mass instead of falling through.
Filth always means, loss in a shed.
A loose chute plank of projecting nail
may cause broken or dislocated legs or
body wounds. . . ...
Heavy wool tables suffer from being
dragged about; tighten up ( bolts or put
in a ,few fresh nails where, there are
signs of shakiness. Don’t discard a wool
basket if the bottom is broken or worn
out. Soak a hide until' it is soft and
cut out a circle the size of the base of
the basket, plus a 3in. margin. Lace this
on with greenhide strips and fix two
parallel hardwood battens underneath
to prevent wear.
Don’t leave odd crutchings, dead
wool,. skins or straggler fleeces in the
bins or baskets with the idea of work-
ing them into the general clip. Dusty,
stale wool is better disposed of on its
merits.
Grease and dirt left “to preserve the
board and tables” harbor germs, and
the danger of infection in a shed where
sheep are jambed together and suffer
cuts and abrasions is high. ' It is of
little use trying to sterilise a dirty shed
by splashing a few buckets of dip
through it. Clean off the dirt and grease
first with hot water and caustic soda.
Then spray or wash down with phenol
solution. Ordinary sheep dip is not
necessarily disinfectant. Many dips have
no germicidal properties.
Machine- and Blade-shearing.
“Walgett” sums up:
“Murrawong” (B. 26/5/’37) ; . claims
that it is subdivision of big holdings that
has destroyed the .'individuality of
shearers. ■ That is only a minor cause:
Chief one is the arbitration law.
He further writes that in N.S.W. shear-
ing is cofifined to four- or five months
of the year. I saw a shearing of nearly
20,000 sheep through in March this year.
Some of the shearers already; had their
hands in. On cutting-out almost all went
to other sheds. They will continue mov-
ing till well into December. Some of
them will then go to Victoria or Tas-
mania. For those who want it, shearing
can be found nearly all the year round,
it is not reduction in s the length of the
season that causes unseemly haste. Shear-
ing always was speedy-work. What has
caused it to become rushed work is run-
ning cost. When the hand-shearer stops
to breathe his breath costs nothing. The
engine that runs machines breathes
petrol.
It is quite, true that the desire to get
the last bit of wool is carried to extremes.
Some owners have been advocating
thicker combs. Most breeders would wel-
come them. But dealers and shearers
are against them ; the former from a de-
sire to get the last ounce and the latter
because thicker - combs'-are ■* heavier- to
push through the l wool, making' harder
work and lower-tallies;
We are told that machines may scratch
and nick, sheep, but. a mishit .with the
blades-usually means a cut to be sewn
up. Has “Murrawong” never - seen a
sheep ripped open with comb and cutter?
I have seen more sheep badly gashed-in
opening up the neck with the machines
than with, blades ; also many more nicked
on the hock. In plain sheep, skin dam-
age would be fairly even as s between
blades and machines. .When it comes to
wrinkles, machines take much more hide.
■" A New Sheep Pest. ;
* “Agamemnon'’: : A pest only ; recently
recognised in Australia is the sheep
botfly.' - It is mainly : active in spring
and summer
Flies ' lay' their .eggs on the sheep’s
muzzle,'and the maggots crawl into the
"Well, why didn' y' speak when I started hitchin' y' up? Y' know I can l see too Well with
these hew glasses "
nose. They may cause' rapid :death by
reaching the brain. In any case, infec-
tionTeads-to heavy loss'of condition and
constant sneezing s and nasal discharge.
It often proves fatal. . t> *
Treatment is difficult. Carbon
sulphide in oil is sometimes injected into
the nose, but its value is doubtful. The
application of a fly repellent to the
muzzle—kerosene, turpentine and tar are
all good—is the most effective preven-
tive. In large flocks, the job may be
done by feeding salt in a narrow trough
with the openings protected by hessian
soaked in the “repellent’ so that each
sheep, in feeding, .will automatically
smear its muzzle.
Polwarth and Merino, j
“C.V.S.”: I disagree with “Sheepo”
(B. 21/7/’37) that Polwarths average
56-58’s wool.' Much Polwarth 1 wool
shows wider variations, ranging from
58’s to 64’s. 56-58’s wool could never
compete with top-line merino. In Pol-
warth clips at the Geelong sales there
are odd fleeces slightly finer than 64’s.
The reason Western District (Vic.)
stations favor the Polwarth is partly be-
cause pasture improvement has resulted
in feed becoming too heavy for the
merino. On improved pasture, a dual-
purpose sheep is more payable.
Wool from Asia.
“Ghanam”: Judging by samples exam-
ined recently by H. Munz for the C.S.
and 1.R., the Australian wool trade is in
little danger from Asian competition so
long as present types are the basis of the
Manchurian and Mongolian wool indus-
tries. ' i
Fourteen, samples dealt with included
only two greasy lots. Most specimens
were high-yielders—average 78.3 p.c.,
with a maximum of 92 p.c. and a mini-
mum of 52 p.c. The general characteris-
tics were a hairy outer coat of long fibres
of brittle kemp * arid' hair, with a fine
woollen undercoat. A high percentage of
kemps and intermediate (heterotype)
fibres in all the wools-gave them a coarse
appearance. • '. ■ j '• >
There was a great .range - of fibre
diameters, but the mean of : all tithe wools
was round about 64’s. Shantung-lamb’s
wool is about 70’s to 74’s. The*variation
was great enough to seriously affect the
quality of the wool. It couldn't
compare with merino.
Potatoes and Maize for Sheep.
“Hortus”: Cull potatoes make,a cheap
and useful sheep - feed, but should not
be.giv.en as a sole ration.
■ The’food values of maize and potatoes
compare •as’ follows:
Nutritive " Criide. Phosphoric
Ratio. Protein. Acid.
Potato .. 1-14.5 lib. per 1001 b. 1.21 b. per 10001 b.
Maize ..' 1-10.4 71b. „ „ 61b. „ „
■ Net energy , value: Potato (dry matter),
quarter; maize« (grain), one.
So back Tup the with fodder
containing a good t protein content,
maize; grain. or ; nuts, lucerne or oaten
.hay.-. The best ration is a potato-grain-
.hay .combination.
, A .daily ration of 4oz. .maize and lib.
.hay will'carry sheep without any other
.food * supply.-' You can- reduce this
amount if* potatoes are added. How-
ever, unless you can land potatoes on
the place at something under a quarter
the price of maize, weight for weight,
it’s far more economical to buy maize.
One caution is needed: unripe pota-
toes and the sprouts of store potatoes
may contain poisonous quantities of
solanin. ...
Useless Sheep Classes.
“C.V.S.”: ~ “Murrawong’s” remarks
about, the fleece section at the Sydney
Sheep Show XB. 7/7/’37) remind me of
a useless class that country shows some-
times include 1 ; the “most attractive” or
“most stylish” fleece. Exhibits usually
are restricted; to merinos. The winning
fleece :is often small and light, well-
crimped and bright, but only half the
value' of, a; good commercial fleece that
would not gain a place. Commercial
value and .usefulness should be the guid-
ing factors in the judging of any class,
provided the ;wool conforms to type.
Other fleeces that should be more
rigidly; banned from competing, except in
a special - class, are < those from “pets/
which haye an unfair advantage over
flock sheep because of. their extra size
consequent upon pampered rearing.
....
Improving Pig Standards.
“Pappamosca”: Australian pig stand-
ards are improving out of sight, but
Australia is still woefully behind the rest
of the world. We still have only a
quarter of the Danish numbers, and in
quality and standardisation the Aus-
tralian breeder has a long way to go.
In Maoriland, where pork and bacon
are closely brigaded to dairying, a mil-
lion pigs a year —only 400,000 short of
the whole Australian pig population-
are being turned off. For every 1001 b.
of , butter produced in the Dominion,
281 b. of pig meat is produced, and the
dairying organisations are considering
schemes to improve grading standards
and turn off a bacon carcass for every
cow milked. It will raise the value of
the industry to £5,000,000 p.a.
Under the present M.L. grading sys-
tem lenient standards make it possible
for 96 p.c. of baconers to qualify for
first-grade, though the Director of
Agriculture told the National Dairy Con-
ference a few days ago that not more
■than 20 p.c. to 25 p.c. could be regarded
{Continued on page 44.)


■///""
A
ffl
1/- per tube, capital
cities. Slightly
higher country
centres. Also sold in
ilb., Jib. and lib.
%&
X
6 t
*
k
Tarzan’s Grip not only
has a greater variety of
uses in repairing broken
materials than the old
types ■of solders and
glues, but it also > effec-
tively sticks together
many materials of dif-
ferent natures. It is a
necessity where the
joint has to resist mois-
ure, acids, alkalis and
extreme heat.
MENDS
ANYTHING!
THE UNIVERSAL FIXER
An adhesive compound ready for immediate use. No heat—no
soldering—no tools required. Superior to glue, gums, pastes and
cements. For mending and fixing furniture, light fittings, picture
frames, auto parts, trunks, handbags, jewellery, books, radios, toys,
spectacles, sporting goods, kitchenware, steam and water piping, etc.
Available in colourless or aluminium solutions.
I AK
d.
m n
i
G
PA
D
S
N
PO
H
L
CO
LTD
MANUFACTURING
GRIP
PRODUCT OF TARZAN
"Cleans as it Shines."
Here is a strange new chemical enclosed for your convenience in a long-
wearing polishing pad. It cleans windows, mirrors, sinks and baths so much
easier and polishes any smooth surface bright as new. No rubbing—no
scrubbing—no tired muscles.
V.
SHINTCS —Puts a brilliant
lustre on all highly-polished
metals such as chromium,
nickel, silver and aluminium,
windshields and windows of
cars.
©
1/- per pad, capital
cities. Slightly
higher country
centres.
Also cleans all
white shoes and
sandshoes.
k
POLISHES Without a n
equal for shining silverware,
jewellery and valuable articles
on which you would hesitate
to use ordinary cleaners, as
Tarzan Speed-E-Shyne con-
tains no injurious chemicals
or abrasive materials.
Convenient and simple cleaning!—just damp a Tarzan Speed-E-
Shyne Polishing Pad, then knead it with the fingers until the
cleansing liquid shows through. Rub the pad over the surface to
be cleaned. Before the preparation has time to dry, rub it off
with a clean, soft cloth.
Under normal conditions of use a Tarlzan Speed-E-Shyne Polish-
ing Pad will last about three months.
INTERSTATE
Queensland.
Crouch, Connah and Gordon Pty., Ltd.,
19-25 Makerston Street, Brisbane.
Victoria.
Messrs. T. W. Heath Pty., Ltd.,
Commerce House, Flinders Street,
Melbourne C.l.
Obtainable at Grocers, Garages, Hardware
Stores and Leading Emporiums Everywhere.
Products of
TARZAN’S GRIP Mfg. Co. Ltd
'Phone: J 5440
449-453 Willoughby Rd., Willoughby, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
.(• , South Australia. »
.. V Messrs., ■ Ewer Auld and Co., Ltd.,
99a Pirie Street, Adelaide.
DISTRIBUTORS
Western Australia.
Raphaels, Ltd.,
891 Hay Street, Perth.
Tasmania. . v >
F. W.-Heritage and Co., Ltd.,
Launceston and Hobart.
TWm
2?
JO
PAINT
Non-poisonous Made in 26 Durable Colors .
This household paint is manufactured by
modern methods, finely ground in powerful mills to
perfect smoothness, giving maximum covering power and
an evenness of color —flowing freely from the brush, it is
a pleasure to work with.
NO BETTER PAINT
IS MADE AT
THIS PRICE
Sold by all Paint Dealers in
City and Suburbs.
Queensland:
Crouch, Connah & Gordon Pty.,
Ltd., Brisbane.
A genuine Zinc Paint made with Pure
Linseed Oil and Specially-tested Pigments,
suitable for interior or exterior use.
Harbutt
Paint
Pty., Ltd.
18'-
PER GALLON
Godfrey and O’Riordan Streets,
Alexandria, Sydney.
Western Australia:
J. H. Wilberforce & Co., Perth.


gras
.
M’
45/-
3248.
An imported Ooze Calf combination
Riding-Working Boot made with a
heavy double sole and reinforced
elastic sides.
Leather-lined throughout.
Stocked in full and half sizes, and in
wide and extra-wide fittings.
Brown Ooze Calf. Price, 45/-.
EVER SINCE
1838
THERE’S BEEN
AN ABBEY BOOT
For 99 years the Firm of W. Abbey
and Co. has been supplying footwear
to the Australian Public. Much hap-
pens to a Business during 99 years of
existence, many changes are made, and
many things learned. But whatever
changes have been made in the Firm
of W. Abbey and Co. it has always
adhered to the two principles which
have stood it in good stead and for
which it has become so well known,
QUALITY AND SERVICE.
ABBEY SHOES
316 George Street, 224 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
Telegraphic Address: “ABBEY BOOTS, SYDNEY.
GLORIOUS SOUTH AFRICA
SOUTH AFRICA is . land of
perennial sunshine and abiding charm, where
countless delights await the visitor.
Although a country of vast distances, the prin
cipal scenic, historic and industrial districts
can'be speedily reached in the utmost comfort
by the renowned South African Railways.
On your next trip to England, travel
one way via “The Cape” and spend a
short holiday in South Africa.
BLUE FUNNEL
WHITE STAR-ABERDEEN
Joint Service to
SOUTH AFRICA & ENGLAND
For particulars apply Local Agents any capital city.
r
w
=75C7
=T=*=ia > ' -==,
P
EBv
v::.
NO MORE TAXATION-RETURN
PROBLEMS
The Primary Producer’s Account Book
costs you £l,
but that includes the free preparation of your Income Tax
Return by
J. Rawson Stevenson,
a taxation expert, who by his thorough knowledge of
taxation methods will see that you claim the maximum
deductions, and thus save yourself many times over the
cost of the book, and endless worry.
Read what one purchaser says:
“I am enclosing my cheque for £3/0/6 to pay for three
copies of the Primary Producer’s Account Book. I showed
the book I had already bought from you to three of my
farmer sons, so they are now each wanting one, as it is
something we have been wanting a long time.”
—H.K.R. (Bogan Gate, N.S.W.)
Forward cheque for £l (plus exchange) to
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO. PTY., LTD.,
252 George Street (Box 252 IBB). Sydney,
and the Primary Producer’s Account Book will be sent you
post free,
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” , takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
ifc^fyxxlleivrL
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free,
as first-class British market baconer car-
casses. Following him, the chairman of
the Co-op. Pig Marketing Board said:
We should emulate Denmark, our most
successful competitor on the British market,
by the institution of a rigid system of
grading, with a premium for quality. That
standard must comply with the require-
ments of the people who buy our pro-
ducts.
The conference passed a resolution
favoring a higher standard of grading
for baconers and a premium for quality,
to be provided by a small levy on all
pigs slaughtered. It is a line of policy
Australia could copy with advantage.
Grading not in line with buyers’ grad-
ing merely advertises to the market an
average inferiority in the product it is
designed to improve.
Treating Pharyngitis.
“Agamemnon”: Pharyngitis often
causes trouble among stabled horses.
It is marked by irritating inflammation
of the back of the mouth, along with
lack of appetite and difficulty in swallow-
ing. Coughing, slavering and swelling of
the face develop. Water and food are
returned through the nose.
In treating an outbreak, first clean up
the stable and discourage flies. Affected
horses should be isolated and given soft
food. If the temperature of other horses
be taken every morning, later cases may
be treated before full symptoms develop.
A good ointment is fluid extract bella-
donna loz., borax 20z., pot. chlorate
20z., glycerine 20z., honey Boz. It will
help to allay the pain and cause rapid
healing. An inhalation of eucalyptus oil
and friar’s balsam wiil also help.
Rotational Feeding-off.
“Zedo”: On rich soils in some Eng-
lish counties feeding-off is a sort of
rotational procession. Both fatteners and
stores are on hand. The fatteners are
allowed into the paddocks first on new
pasture to get the best of the feed. When
they have cropped the tops they move
on and the stores take their place.
On some farms the feeding-off is done
with mixed stocks, the theory being that
cattle relish some plants and thrive on
them, while sheep will more quickly
clean up others. In this way a field is
eaten over more, efficiently.
The system would not suit some Aus-
tralian districts, but in others it should
be a good bet for fat-sheep men.
Beet Sugar in Victoria.
“Casein”: In 1911, 458 acres supplied
the needs of the mills. Last year 3115
acres were under beets and 35,843 tons
was treated for 5115 tons of sugar and
1379 tons of molasses.
In the Maffra district there are 164
growers, with an average of 20 acres per
farm, the largest cultivator having 60
acres. The average gross return over 10
years has been £2l 13s. lOd. per acre,
giving a clear profit of £6 ss. 9d. per
acre. About 250 men are permanently-
employed, and another 200 earn £lB,OOO
a year in wages.
In the 25 years of its existence the
Maffra factory has spent just on £2,000,000
and has made a substantial profit —
£32,000 last year—in every year except
one since the war.
Beet will never compete with cane as
an all-round supplier of Australian
sugar, but it has other possibilities. On
last year’s average of \\\ tons to the
acre, it is a valuable and fairly econo-
mical supplement as a stock feed. But
at the present price it is too dear to use
for the production of power alcohol, as
has been done extensively in Germany.
Harvesting Grass Seed.
“Mulyan”: On a couple of N.S.W.
properties, Mitchell grass seed has been
harvested by machinery and found a
ready sale.
On pasture lands the grass seldom
grows more than a couple of feet, but
cultivation should increase its height.
The seed heads are like wheat-ears, and
the husk can be separated by hand-
rubbing.
The difficulty in machine-harvesting
on “natural” areas is the unevenness of
the ground. Even on treeless plains there
are gullies, knobs and sometimes stones.
In n.-w. N.S.W. we had to use reaping
hooks ; but inequalities could have, been
levelled and rolled for future crops. One
man near Edgeroi (N.S.W.) harvested
several tons of seed with a pneumatic-
tyred American reaper-thresher, but it
was mixed with a good deal of stiaw
and rubbish.
Mitchell grass, in my opinion, is the
most valuable of native grasses. It
grows from the Riverina to the Barkly
Tableland. I have seen sheep keep their
condition on it when drought has re-
duced it to black stubble. As hay, it
has remained sweet for years. When
dry Mitchell gets a shower of rain, it
throws out green shoots from the joints
of the stems, thus providing a rich mix-
ture of green and dry with every
mouthful.
Blue grass, also a fattening perennial
with drought-resisting powers, covers the
ground with a thick leafy sward from
which the seed stalks rise to sft. or 6ft.
It is a heavy seed-bearer, and ranges
over nearly the same area as Mitchell.
In the natural state it can be cut for
hay two or three times a year, produc-
ing in normal seasons four or five tons
to the acre at each cutting.
Australian Fodders.
“Stump Jump”: The various State De-
partments of Agriculture have done little
in the way of a systematic analysis of
commonly-used fodders to help balance,
diets for stock.
Linseed-oil meal, for example, with an
analysis of 26 p.c. protein, 40 p.c. carbo-
hydrate and 6 p.c. fat is about 80 p.c.
digestible. Lucerne hay, on the other
hand, is only 50 p.c. digestible, although
it is essentially a rich hay with 12 p.c.
protein, 34 p.c. carbohydrate, 2 p.c. fat
and 30 p.c. to 40 p.c. fibre—its low digest-
ible value being due to the high-fibre
content and the resistance this offers to
digestive juices.
There, is a great need for a complete
crude analysis of all our common pas-
tures, hays, grains and meals. It must
be followed up by digestibility trials —
direct feeding to stock and examination
of excreta for percentage of unused food.
Nitrogen in the Orchard.
“Hortus”: Nitrogen is important in
the fertilising of citrus trees. When
nitrates are lacking the trees lose vigor;
terminal growth is short; few fruit buds
are differentiated; leaves are small—
yellowish-green, much twisted and
curled ; buds are slower to open ; leaves
fall earlier, and fruit is apt to drop.
What’s more, the;, fruit ripens earlier, is
smaller and usually high-colored.
A ploughed-under green crop is the
best way to provide nitrates. When to
plough it under is the problem. If left
in too long the green crop may take much
of the moisture which the spring and sub-
sequent cultivations are expected to con-
serve for the summer out of the soil.
And it may be too late for the trees to
benefit from the resultant humus. It
takes a fair time under normal condi-
tions for the soil bacteria to convert the
insoluble nitrites into soluble nitrates.
Plough in August, and the trees should
get the nourishment before leaves start
to form.
Hints for the Farm.
“Mookau”: Try your hand with
vealers. The youngster should be kept
on its mother until it weighs about 801 b.
“Pappamosca”: Dry pens will help
keep down worms in pigs; cleanliness
and right feeding will do the rest.
“Ecco”: Keep fruit-pruning instru-
ments in good order. Rough edges
should always be trimmed. They make
for the formation of calluses, and
cracked wood harbors insects.
“Zedo”: Pasteurising milk is easy. It
is merely heated to a temperature of
145 deg. Fahr., kept there for 30 minutes,
then brought down quickly to a maxi-
mum of 50deg.
“R. 8.”: When chaining the house cow
in a grassy corner of the vegetable patch,
slip an old piece of cycle inner tube or
hose over the part that goes round her
neck. It’s a handy idea, too, for trace
chains up near the side of the shoulders,
along the stomach or where the back legs
brush against them.
“Andy”: To deal with scabby mouth,
isolate the patients, and wash their


NOZAC
Pens - Pencils - Sets
k
More and more people to-day
appreciate the quality of
Conklin and insist upon
Conklin writing instruments,
in preference to any other.
The Nozac filling system is
recognised as supremely
dependable. Sturdy construc-
tion and simplicity of
mechanism are the principal
features. Pencils to match
are available.
Here are the seven superior
features which distinguish
Conklin Nozacs as the world’s
finest precision fountain pens:
1. Capacity. More than !U
hours of constant writing, or
50 average letters. Scientifi-
cally gauged ink space, per-
mitting every drop of ink to
be used without fear of flood-
ing.
2. Visibility. Full length or
complete transparent ink
chambers.
3. Leak-proof. Inner cap
specially designed to prevent
leaking, yet the point will
write the, moment it touches
paper.
4. Cushion Point. A revolu-
tionary advance in writing
ease and smoothness.
5. Stem-wind Filler. A simple,
efficient an d dependable
device, proven by eight years
in the hands of the consumers.
Its operation compares with
the winding of a watch.
0. Controlled Feed. Insures
uniform flow of ink.
7. Beauty. Modern design
harmonises with streamline
styling.
Pens are Priced at 22/6, 30/-
and 40/-.
Pencils to Match, 17/6, 25/-.
Complete Sets in Presentation
Cases, 40/-, 55/- and 65/-.
From Leading Stores Everywhere.
MACMILLAN’S
NEW BOOKS
2'he prices advertised are those at which the
books are published in London, prices outside
the British Isles must be fixed by the importing
bookseller.
THE ROAD TO OXIANA.
By ROBERT BYRON.
Illustrated, 10/6.
Travels in Afghan Turkestan. “Most
alert and open-minded of young travellers,
and an admirable writer....He writes
with zest, with a dry humour and from
a well-stored mind.... A genuine con-
tribution to knowledge.” —“Daily Mail.”
STRAW WITHOUT
BRICKS.
I VISIT SOVIET RUSSIA.
(Empire Library.)
By E. M. DELAFIELD.
“A really useful, not to say valuable,
book because it shows clearly and humanly
for the very first time what ordinary life
in Russia to-day is really like.”
—“Daily Telegraph.”
EMPIRE LIBRARY.
Important New Novels.
WE ARE NOT ALONE.
By JAMES HILTON.
“A small masterpiece of deft, swift, neat
narrative .” —“Daily Telegraph.”
NOTHING IS SAFE.
By E. M. DELAFIELD.
THE BLIND FOR
SACRIFICE.
By JOHN OWEN.
NINEPENNY FLUTE.
(21 Tales)
By A. E. COPPARD.
To be Obtained from all
Booksellers.
MACMILLAN & CO., LTD.
MELBOURNE & LONDON, W.C.2.
Corns Sentenced to Death.
Corns have worried you—now worry them:
although “worry” is hardly the word, for
A’CORN SILK does not trifle with corns, but
ruthlessly kills them. How comfortable your
feet feel after A’CORN SILK has removed
all your soft or hard corns—a 6d. packet will
do this for you without pain or inconvenience.
Corns are killed while you sleep—a matter of
a few hours. Chemists sell A’CORN SILK at
6d. per packet. Packed by Felton, Grimwade
and Duerdins, Ltd., Melbourne.
PAINS ALL OVER
HIS BODY
Kruschen Made Him Feel
a New Man
Rheumatism is an insidious complaint that
strikes without warning. It attacks an arm or
a leg, and frequently the pains spread to all
parts of the body, unless something is done to
check them. That was the experience of this
man, who had rheumatism so badly that at
times he was prevented from wording.
“About 10 months ago,” he writes, “I suf-
fered terribly with rheumatism and neuritis.
The pains were all over my body, and some
days I could not even get up from bed to go
to work. A friend visited me and suggested
that I should try Kruschen Salts. I did so, the
result being that the pains seemed to gradually
disappear. 1 have been going to work ever
since without a break, thanks to Kruschen
Salts, and I feel a new man.” —A.R.
Rheumatic conditions are the result of an ex-
cess of uric acid in the body. Two of the
ingredients of Kruschen Salts have the power
of dissolving uric acid crystals. Other ingredi-
ents assist Nature to expel these dissolved
crystals through the natural channels.
• rsii
il
m
should be
accompanied by an
ASSURANCE POLICY
Act wisely young man !
Assure yourself with the
Equitable Probate and Gen-
eral Insurance Co., Ltd., and
you’ll be fulfilling your ob-
ligations for all time.
EQUITABLE
PROBATE and
GENERAL INSURANCE CO.LTD.
Head Office —371-373 Queen St., Brisbane
Wlngclln House, Angel Place, Sydney.
Collins House, Collins Street, .Melbourne.
lt. V. PERKINS. General Manager.
\
\
y*.
N
yS
\
lillKK;
ip-* l '
»}!{%*
I Si
ISiililiiiiM! P*
i !
Electrically Tempered
BLUE GILLETTES
shave better
because their cutting edge
is harder
is stronger
is keener
lasts longer
Packet of Five 1/6
BLUE GILLETTE
ELECTRICALLY-TEMPERED BLADES
GILLETTE RAZORS
AND BLADES are
made for each other
mouths with a 1 p.c. solution of lysol,
at the same time removing the scabs.
Then apply an ointment of one part of
cresol to two parts each of sulphur and
lard or vaseline. Or mix some creosote,
turpentine and linseed oil together, in
one, three and six parts respectively, and
apply three times a week. Obstinate
cases should be painted with strong tinc-
ture of iodine; and then powdered with
boracic acid. Prevention is better than
cure. Try 101 b. of sulphur with each
hundredweight of salt lick.
“Gryllus”: Sheepmen will be wise to
watch out for the star-burr. A native of
Brazil, it has already become a serious
pest in parts of N.Q., and has now spread
southward to the South Burnett and East
Moreton districts. An annual, two or
three feet high, its branches and leaves
bear rough hairs. Flower-heads of from
10 to 15 small flowers are set singly in
the leaf axils, and form oblong seeds
covered with short hooked spines. Seeds
from undeveloped flowers are in groups of
from 5 to 10, arranged flower fashion
from the centre, and also possess hooked
spines. Pull and burn it without delay.
In doubtful cases send a specimen of
stem, leaves and flower or seed to the
State botanist.
“Feesh”: Thousands of tons of fish-
bones are annually dumped into our in-
cinerators. Is there any reason why such
refuse, high in phosphoric content, should
not be treated for use as fertiliser?
“Bull-ant Bill”: Successful results are.
being obtained from the use of hoop-
pine sawdust as packing for Stanthorpe
(Q.) grapes in place of imported cork
dust. A trial case of Purple Cornichons
was divided hi the centre, one half packed
with cork dust and the other with hoop-
pine sawdust from which the finer grains
and dust had been removed. It was held,
without cold storage, for 11 weeks.
Those in the sawdust opened up in per-
fect condition, completely free of taint
of any kind ; those in the cork dust pack
showed a trace of mould and slight
shrivelling.
“Colonel B.”: After a couple of dis-
appointing seasons on account of drought
and uncertainty concerning local markets,
flax-growing in Queensland should ex-
pand. Large areas are being replanted,
particularly around Cambooya (Darling
Downs). Flax is a useful sideline and,
given good seasons, the returns are better
than for most farm sidelines when its
hardiness against pests and simplicity of
cultivation are considered.
“J. Want”: A butter-making need is
a louvred waiting-box, properly roofed
and protected from the sun. It doesn’t
call for a new issue of farm capital. Any
State Agricultural Department will supply
plans from which one may be built for
a pound or two.
“5.8.”: It is possible that humans do
become infected with three-day sickness,
and are able to pass it on to stock (B.
30/6/’37). However, there must be some
carrier of the disease. Healthy cows
herded with infected animals in insect-
free enclosures remain unaffected,
although it is possible to produce the
disease in these same cows later by in-
troducing blood from a sick cow into a
scratch or skin-puncture. Reports of a
fresh outbreak have already arrived from
the Far North, so the autumn tropical
season seems to provide the first impetus
to the insect host in this country, the
virus itself being carried over from
season to season by a few chronic cases.
The N. S. Wales Veterinary Associa-
tion points out in a circular the need for
more stringent action to deal with tuber-
culosis in cattle. The Commonwealth
Chief Vet. estimates annual losses from
the pest at about £500,000. The asso-
ciation declares that measures for deal-
ing with t.b. are, in effect, at a standstill,
and that real progress cannot be made
until there is a wider application of the
tuberculin test and affected animals are.
wiped out. Present conditions call for
the pasteurisation of milk for human
consumption, though the milk is of more
value raw—this is only safe when the
milk comes from healthy cows.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
(1) Has Kil Tic been used for jetting sheep?
(2) How should it be mixed? —6435.
(1) Yes, but not recently. (2) Maximum
quantity should b£ eight bars —8 p.c. or 81b.
arsenic in 100 gals, of mixture to comply with
Queensland regulations. Notice must be given
to the Brisbane Department of Stock if the
mixture is used on sheep carrying more than
four months’ wool.


5 YEARS’
GUARANTEE
“INVINCIBLE”
nHKDjnsnsMBBM
uicvasxiacZVC
I
INVINCIBLE
MARINE
ENGINES.
20 four-cycle sizes: 3 to 100 horse-
power in I, 2,4, 6 and 8 cylinder
models. Write for illustrated Cata-
logue to-day.
INVINCIBLE MOTORS PTY., LTD.,
53 North George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
j, ■ Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ;W. H. Hart, Esq. ; n > sff- >
F. E. Loxton, Esq. ; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —l). S'. FORBES
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory) Melbourne. Sydney and 9<
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, a so> P • ‘
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World. th lB
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all geneial bankin p bu m . ■>.
THE
UNITED
INSURANCE
COMPANY LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1862.
Head Office:
GEORGE n HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL - - £1,000,000
All classes of Fire, Marine and
Accident Insurances effected at
Lowest Current Rates.
The “United” is an Australian Institution.
A. C. DAWSON, T. C. REYNOLDS,
Gen. Manager. Asst. Gen. Manage*-
Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers. ,
The service is entirely free. All you have to do **
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand. . .
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject. ..
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Journalist, accountant, wants position as
leader-writer, accountant on provincial paper.
Comprehensive knowledge of all Australian
States.—6650.
Man (27), N.S.W., wants position on station,
licensed electrician, Diesel and suction-gas
certificates, oxy and electric welder, garage,
factory and short station exp.—6554.
Young lady, bookkeeper, typist and ticket-
writer, wants position in country store. Refs.
--6531.
Recitations and stories suitable for smoke
concerts. —6526.
Schoolgirl starting stamp collection invites
gifts of foreign stamps. —6534.
Lady, Melbourne, first-class secretary, literary
and business, open engagement mornings or by
appointment. —6539.
To buy The Bishop’s Scapegoat, The Wilder-
ness and The Love Child, by T. B. Clegg.
6535.
information Sought.
What were the ages of cricketers who made
1000 runs during May in English cricket, and
their averages in making them? —6623.
In- Not Highest
nings. Out. Runs. Score. Av.
D. Bradman (21) 11 4 1001 252* 143.00
C. Hallows (33) 11 3 1000 232 125.00
W. G. Grace (46X 10 1 1016 288 112.88
T. Hayward (29) 13 2 1074 193 97.63
W. Hammond (23) 13 0 1028 192 79.07
*Not out.
* • * * *
(1) What were the match results of the Aus-
tralian Rugby Union tour in South Africa in
1933 ? (2) The scores in the Tests? —6589.
(1) Played 23, won 12, lost 10, drew 1; points
for 299, against 195. (2) First Test, S.A. won
17-3; second Test, Australia won 21-6; third
Test, S. Africa won 12-3; fourth Test, S.
Africa won 11-0; fifth Test, Australia won
15-4.
* s|' * *
(1) What were the dimensions of the footballs
used in the S. Africa-Australia Rugby Union
Test matches? (2) Size of the field on which
the matches were played? —6610.
(1) Law 4, framed by the International
Rugby Football Board, gives these figures:
Length in line, 11 in. to 11|in.; circumference
(end on), 30in. to 31in.; circumference (in
width), 24in. to weight, 13Xoz. to 15oz.
(2) Length, 110yds., with 25yds. touch-in-goal
at each end; width, 75yds.; the goalposts at
each end are lift, high, with the crossbar at
10ft. and 18ft. 6in. between the uprights.
* * *■ *
(1) In what position did Henry Braddon play
when he toured Australia with the M.L. Rugby
Union team in 1884? (2) Did Braddon ever
play for N.S.W. against M.L.? (3) What M.L.
R.U. teams in Australia had unbeaten records?
—6596.
(1) Braddon played full-back. (2) No; he
played for N.S.W. v. Great Britain in 1888, v.
Victoria in 1889, and v. Queensland in 1890
and 1892. (3) 1884, won 8, scored 167 points
to 17; 1903, won 10, scored 276 points to 13;
1914, won 10, scored 246 points to 50; 1920,
won 7, scored 264 points to 77. The 1905
team won 2, drew 1 and scored 49 points to 11.
* * * *
(1) Origin and history of the Royal N.S.W.
Lancers? (2) Privileges conferred by the title
“Royal” ? —6440.
(1) In 1885 came the first enlistments for
the Sydney Light Horse, who made their
first public appearance on the departure of the
Sudan Contingent, March 3. They were con-
verted to Lancers on their return. In 1893, at
their own expense, they sent a contingent to
compete in the Army tournaments at Islington
(Eng.) and Dublin. Another detachment went
to England for the Jubilee of Queen Victoria.
In 1889 a squadron of 106 men and officers
went to England for six months’ training with
the Imperial Cavalry at Aldershot. When they
were passing Cape Town on the way home hos-
tilities commenced with the Boers, and the
Lancers, as volunteers, took part in the first
engagement on the Modder River. After
Federation the Lancers were merged in the 1st
Australian Light Horse. Towards the end
of 1936 it was decided to change certain units
from sabre to machine-gun regiments, and the
Lancers became a mechanised machine-gun regi-
ment as from November 1, 1936. (2) The
grant of the title Royal was made by George V.
on the occasion of his Silver Jubilee. Royal
regiments are entitled to wear a royal-blue
facing on the uniform, which privilege owes its
origin to the royal livery of scarlet with blue
facings worn during the reign of Henry VIII.
In the N.S.W. Lancers regiment the royal
pattern of trumpet strings of blue and gold
has been adopted, and the guidon has a blue
background in place of the crimson awarded to
other Light Horse regiments.
A few particulars of the gemstones of Aus-
tralia?- —6555.
Diamonds to the value of £147,000 have been
discovered in Australia. The yield in N.S.W.
in 1934, -estimated at 49 carats and valued at
£52, was obtained wholly at Copetown. Sap-
phires valued at £450 were obtained in N.S.W.
at Sapphire in 1929. In Queensland, on the
Anakie fields, sapphires to the value of £3055
were sold in 1934. The estimated value of the
opal obtained in N.S.W. in 1934 was £3283;
Queensland yielded stones to the value of £3OO.
Small quantities of opal are found in Victoria.
Other stones, including agates, amethysts,
beryls, chiastolite, emeralds, garnets, olivines,
moonstones, rubies, topazes, tourmalines, tur-
quoises and zircons are found in the various
States.
* * * *
Origin and history of the N.S.W. Corps?
—6540.
Formed about 1791 to replace the garrison
that accompanied Governor Phillip to Botany
Bay. The officers quarrelled with Governor
after Governor, and their traffic in rum and
disregard for Phillip’s carefully-laid plans led
to their return to England in 1810. The corps
was ordered to Bermuda and improved greatly
under Napier, but it was not tested in battle,
and it left Bermuda for garrison duty at
smaller stations until it was disbanded in 1818.
It was revived briefly by Macquarie and finally
disbanded in 1833.
*. * * *
Origin of the superstition that it is unlucky
to light three cigarettes with one match? —6541.
One theory is that it originated during the
Great War, because if a person held a lighted
match long enough to light three cigarettes he
provided a sittting shot for a sniper. But it is
older than that and ranks with the prejudice
against three lights in a room.
* ♦ *
(1) How are large cranes lowered from the
roofs of buildings when the work is completed ?
(2) Is a hole drilled in a hypodermic needle?
—6289.
(1) There are always one or two small cranes
on the roof and these are used to dismantle the
larger crane and lower it to the ground. The
smaller cranes are then dismantled and lowered
to the ground by hand. (2) No, they are made
from drawn tubes.
* * * *
What is a paravane T—6510.'
A contrivance developed by Commander
Usborn and Sir Dennistoun’ Burney during the
Great War to protect ships from mines. It
consists essentially of a cigar-shaped, welded
steel body connected to a towing cable, a fixed
cutter for cutting the moorings of mines and
two rudders to control the depth at which the
paravane is required to run.
* * * *
Legal procedure to change a name ? —6521.
A deed poll is drawn up by a solicitor, an
advertisement of the change of name is in-
serted in a newspaper and the change is regis-
tered with the Registrar of Births. This applies
to both surname and Christian names.
* * * *
Explanation of “realty” and “personalty”
when probate of a will is granted ? —6494.
“Realty” refers to any property in land or
appertaining to or attached to the land. “Per-
sonalty” refers to personal chattels which are
not associated with the land; thus a house,
the foundations of which are built into the
land would be realty, while the furniture in it,
not forming any part of the structure, would
be personalty.
* *' * *
How is artificial marble manufactured ?
6286.
Alum 1000 parts, heavy spar (barium sul-
phate) 10 to 100 parts, water 100 parts (the
amount of heavy spar is varied according to
the degree of translucence desired). The alum
is dissolved in water over heat. As soon as the
solution boils the heavy spar is mixed in, after
being mixed with a little extra water and having
had added to it any special coloring pigment
required. The whole is then boiled down until
the mixture has lost 3 per cent, of its weight,
when the mass shows a density of 34deg. Be. at
a temperature of 212 deg. Fahr. The mixture
is then allowed to cool, with constant stirring,
until it is only semi-liquid. The mass is then
poured into a mould covered on the inside with
several layers of collodion; it is allowed to cool
completely in the mould, when it is taken out
and dried in an airy room. It may then be
polished, patinised or otherwise finished.
* * * *
History of the abolition of slavery in (1)
Britain and (2) United States? —6282.
The first organised opposition in England
came from the Quakers, who in 1761 excluded
from membership anyone concerned in slaving.
In 1787 a Society for the Abolition of Slavery
was formed. Wilberforce’s continued agitation
in Parliament secured the passage of a bill
in 1806 prohibiting British subjects from en-
gaging in the trade. In the Somersett case it
had been legally decided that a slave became
free immediately he set foot in the British
Isles, but it was not until 1838 that the final
emancipation of slaves in British colonies was
secured, £20,000,000 being paid as compensa-
tion. (2) Slavery was strongly disapproved of
by many of the leaders of the American nation,
and many masters voluntarily freed their slaves.
Tom Paine wanted to write an anti-slavery
clause into the Constitution. In 1784 Jefferson
brought forward an anti-slavery motion in
Congress which was lost. • In 1787 slavery
was forbidden north of the Ohio; the northern
States had taken action earlier. In 1865, fol-
lowing the victory of the North in the Civil
War, slavery was abolished.
He sj: ❖ ' *
Particulars of essay and peace play competi-
tions being conducted by the N.S.W. branch
of the London Peace Society? —6310.
Prizes are: Essay competition, first £4O,
second £ls; play competition, first £2O,
second £5. Essay subject: “A Programme of
Constructive Peace Action.” This is open to
residents of Australia of 35 and under, age to
be taken as at closing date of the competition.
There is no age limit in the play competition,
which is for a “peace play.” Entries will be
received by the London Peace Society, Room
110, 20 Martin-place, Sydney, up to Septem-
ber 30, 1937. Essays must not exceed 2500
words. Plays may have one, two or three acts.
All entries must be original and unpublished,
typewritten, with nom de plume of author on
title page, and author’s name and nom de
plume in a sealed envelope marked “Essay
Competition” or “Play Competition.” No
competitor must submit more than one entry.
Each competitor must supply two copies of
his entry. No entry will be returned, and win-
ning essays will become the property of the
society.
$ s|: $
Growth of German national debt from 1931
to date, also for years 1871, 1875 and 1913.'
Please quote authority for figures. —6460.
1871, 120.3 million Reichsmark; 1875, 4925.8 ;
1913, 8971.7; 1931, 12,089.6; 1932, 12,137.3;
1933, 12,331.3; 1934, 12,407.1; 1935, 12,525.8
(foregoing figures are as at March 31 in each
instance); 1935 (Dec. 31), 14,104.2; 1936 (Dec.
31), 15,245.9. Figures are from The States-
man’s Year-Book, 1937.
** t * *
How should I word a will to leave real-estate
to the son of my unmarried sister? —6384.
Insert in the will, which should be properly
drawn up and duly attested, the words. “1 de-
vise my [describe the property] to [give full
name and occupation] absolutely.” You can
buy a will form at a stationer’s, but the wiser
course, especially if there are other bequests to
be made, is to get a solicitor to draft it for
you and see that it is properly witnessed; home-
drawn wills are a frequent cause of trouble.
* * * *
Why do the Swiss specialise in the manufac-
ture of watches and other small instruments ?
—6545.
One very good reason is that transport to
and from Switzerland is by rail only and
very expensive and that the cost of importing
raw materials and exporting bulky manufactures
would be a severe handicap.
* * * *
(1) What market for mica is there in Aus-
tralia ? (2) Possibilities of marketing? (3)
Method of marketing? (4) Any commercial
use apart from electrical insulation ? (5) Princi-
pal buyers ? —6442.
(1) and (2) There is a steady demand for
good-quality mica by the electrical industry,
both in Australia and abroad. Australian mica
has already been exported. (3) Submit samples
to the Mica Trading Cos., 44 Reservoir-street,
Sydney. (4) Small amounts of clear mica are
used in making lamp housings, sight holes in
furnace doors and for other purposes requiring
ability to withstand heat. Large quantities
of low-grade (and low-priced) mica are ground
and used as a filler’ in the manufacture of
roofing compounds, wallpaper and rubber
goods. (5) The Mica Trading Cos. is the princi-
pal dealer in mica in Australia.
* * * *
Lengths, grades and direction of grades, and
the opening dates of the old and new Otford
tunnels ? —6505.
The new tunnel, known as Bald Hill tunnel,
is 1264 ft. long; its grade, falling from Sydney,
is 1 in 80. It was opened October 10, 1920.
The old tunnel is 5083 ft. long; its grade, falling
from Sydney, is 1 in 40. It was opened March
10, 1888.
$ * * *
When we were married my husband took me
to his mother’s home (Vic.) and we have lived
there ever since. Can / compel him to provide
me with a home of my own ? —6472.
A wife may take proceedings against her hus-
band for leaving her without sufficient means of
support, but where the means are sufficient
and the. home provided for her has been found
adequate over a number of years she cannot
successfully take action.
$ * >!= *
What city churches now standing survived
the Fire of London ? —6508.
All Hallows, Barking-by-the-Tower; St.
Andrew Undershaft; St. Bartholomew the
Great; St. Ethelburga, Bishopsgate; St. Giles,
Cripplegate; St. Katherine Cree; St. Olave,
Hart-street. Of St. Sepulchre, Holborn, only
the south porch and the tower remain; of All
Hallows, Staining, only the tower; St. Andrew,
Holborn, escaped the fire, but it was in a
ruinous condition at the time and was recon-
structed by Wren, the old tower being refaced
with Portland stone in 1704.
5{C 5$C Jfc Sfc
When' and where did the Cospatrick, an
emigrant ship on its way to M.L., catch fire?
—6515.
On November 18, 1874, south of the Cape of
Good Hope. Panic broke out and only two
boats got away safely. They stayed near until
next day, when the ship sank blazing. No
provisions and few oars were in the boats.
All the occupants perished except three, who
were picked up by the ship British Sceptre on
the 28th.
* * * *
Recipe for a wash for galvanised iron which
will neutralise the acids in the finish so that
paint will not peel off? —6213.
The wash you require is made from chemicals
that are difficult to handle, including hydro-
chloric acid, and is unsuitable for the amateur
to attempt. Roofing paints that do not require
a priming wash are available at about 11s. per
gallon. A good red paint for roofs consists
merely of red oxide of iron mixed with clean
boiled linseed oil.
Brief Answers.
T.W.: (1) The Federal Income Tax Assess-
ment Act (Section 23 p) specifically exempts the
income derived by a bona fide prospector from
the sale, transfer or assignment of goldmining
rights in Australia. (2) No specific provision
is made in the W.A. Act to render such income
either taxable or exempt. It is suggested that
inquiry be made direct to the W.A. Commis-
sioner of Taxation... .W.N.: (l) Liability for
taxation will arise primarily in the State
wherein the income is earned. Relief tax and
income tax will therefore be payable in Queens-
land and Tasmania. (2) No relief tax will be
payable in N.S.W. if no income is derived from
that State. If residence is established in
N.S.W., however, you will be liable for income
tax in respect of your earnings from all States,
with a rebate of the tax actually paid in the
other States. (3) N.S.W. special income and
wages tax (relief tax) is at graduated rates up
to lOd. in the £. Income tax is on a progressive
scale up to 4s. 3d. in the £....W.T.: (1) A
return of income should be lodged, such return
being assessable only for special income tax.
(2) A legacy as such is not assessable, but
the income arising therefrom, such as dividends
from shares, is taxable. (3) Special income tax
is payable on the dividend mentioned at the
rate of lOd. in the £ H.M.W.: Girls may
register for employment as tracers in the N.S.W.
public service on the prescribed form, a copy
of which has been posted. Applicants are re-
quired to be of good education, and before em-
ployment sit for a test in tracing and lettering.
Applications are usually invited by advertise-
ment in the daily press... .C.W.D.: The age
qualifications for old-age pensions are: Males,
65 years, or, if permanently incapacitated for
work, 60 years; females, 60 years... .P.T.:
Thomas McKellar, bom in Scotland, 1820,
the eldest son of John McKellar, of Knobs-
worth, came to Victoria in 1848, and owned
Hyde Park and later Kenilworth, near Hamil-
ton. In 1859 he bought Kanawalla and later
Grange station (changing its name to Strath-
kellar). Subsequently he bought Groxton
station. He died August 2, 1900 J.R.L.:
Albert Einstein, by Anton Reiser, and Albert
Einstein, by David Reichinstein T.J.: (1)
Miss Margaret Simmons, secretary, Modern
Language Assoc, of N.S.W., Orielton, Ocean-
street, Edgecliff. (2) Sub., 10s. 6d. p.a
A.R.C.: Positive prints of all films from
America are received simultaneously by dis-
tributors in Australia and M.L. They may be
shown first in either of these countries....
J.H.: Williams, an artist who used to live in
Perth but has resided in N. S. Wales for some
years, is chiefly known by his water-colors,
landscapes and harbor scenes. He does not
paint in oils H.T.: Aboriginal name for
black bream is bungulla... .K. 8.: Araluen is
an aboriginal word meaning “home of the
water-lily” R.L.: Robert Henry Levien rep-
resented Tamworth in the N.S.W. Leg.
Assembly from 1880 to 1894, Quirindi from
1894 to 1904, and Tamworth again from 1904
to 1913 D.D.: “New Zealand Illustrated
Sporting and Dramatic Review,” High-street,
Auckland. .. .R.L.W.: Jamaica, discovered by
Columbus in 1494, was a Spanish possession
until taken in 1655 by the English, whose pos-
session was confirmed by the Treaty of Madrid
in 1670 A.L.: The eight islands of the
Phoenix Group are Mary, Enderbury, Phoenix,
Birney, Gardner, McKean, Hall and Sydney;
area of group 16 sq. miles, population 59
N.C.: The Isle of Man has an area of 221
sq. miles and a population at the 1931 census
of 49,308 G.T.: Portugal was a monarchy
until 1910. The last king was Manoel 11., of
the House of Braganza-Coburg, born November
15, 1889, younger son of King Carlos I. and
Queen Marie Amelie, daughter of Philippe,
Count of Paris; he died July 2, 1932. On
October 5, 1910, the republic was proclaimed,
with Dr. Theophilo Braga as the Provisional
President A.M.N.: Parties in the Belgian
Chamber of Representatives, elected May 24,
1936, were: Socialists 70, Catholics 63,
Liberals 23, Rexists 21, Flemish Nationalists 16,
Communists 9. Parties in the Senate, elected
May 31, 1936, were: Socialists 67, Catholics
57, Liberals 19, Rexists 12, Flemish National-
ists 9, Communists 3....C.A.F.: Yildirim was
the name given by the Turks to the force
formed July 15, 1917, commended by General
von Falkenhayn and intended for the recap-
ture of Bagdad. Its headquarters, however, and
some of its troops were almost immediately
diverted to Palestine, where, on March 1, 1918,
Marshal Liman von Sanders took over com-
mand. Yildirim, the name applied to the Sultan
Bayazid in the fourteenth century, means “light-
ning” L.C.: Earle Page was born at Graf-
ton (N.S.W.) on August 8, 1880. He served
with the A.A.M.C., No. 3 Casualty Clearing
Station.... H.T,: The Australian Encyclopcedia
contains information about early Australian
currency... .G.D.: Depends partly on the
working head; would not advise over 25 strokes
per minute E.J.S.: The Zollner gravel pump
is no longer manufactured, and there is no agent
in Sydney. Kelly and Lewis, 360 Collins-street,
Melbourne, may be able to supply spare parts.
... .R.F.O’N.: (1) Yes, if of age. (2) The legis-
lation on the subject is of long standing. (3)
Yes M.N.: In N.S.W. you cannot garnishee
wages up to and inclusive of £2, but can do so
for any amount beyond that limit. Should the
debtor come into the ownership of property
you could issue a writ of execution for the
amount of the judgment debt H.M.F.: Pre-
pare flypaper by sizing it with glue, using 12oz.
glue to four pints water, or less in proportion
for small quantities; allow to dry. Melt
together 12oz. castor oil and 270 z. resin, and
brush on to the papers. To store, place the
sticky surfaces face to face and tear apart when
needed... .E.J.G.: ' Consult a solicitor
(Many others mailed.)


WOOL YARNS No. 6
s
*
%
KM
PROGRESS and ACHIEVEMENT
The workmanship of Yarra Falls products
is undoubtedly a national achievement and
is symbolic of the work of Yarra Falls as a
whole ... of striving, building, improving,
achieving. The excellence of Yarra Falls
dyeing—the exquisite colouring obtained, the
variety of tonings and soft gradations of
shade—is but the finishing touch applied to
an excellence of craftsmanship that is carried
through every process in the manufacture of
Yarra Falls yarns and Woven Fabrics to
its ultimate conclusion in the finished article.
Yarra Falls is a monument of successful
endeavour. A National Achievement.
Have you ever paused to think of the part
you play in this achievement? For undoubt-
edly you do play a part. Your loyal Aus-
tralian support to this, the greatest textile mill
in the Southern Hemisphere, means more and
more employment for fellow-Australians; it
means expansion, and is a tremendous factor
in the development of Australia as a great
self-contained nation.
Yarra Falls offer you the finest in Worsted
Knitting and Weaving Yarns, Twills and
Fancy Worsted Suitings, Venetians, Bara-
theas, Covert Coatings, Wool Crepes and
Wool Georgettes. Therefore, THINK
before ordering your next suiting or dress
material and specify YARRA FALLS.
YARRA FALLS LIMITED
Worsted Spinning and Weaving Mills
ABBOTSFORD, N 9, VICTORIA
Young Man Goes West.
By “D.A.”
“Out west” in N. S. Wales is west
of Orange. Ask anyone in Orange.
But to a lot of westerners Orange is
their town and market-place ; Sydney is
200 miles away by rail, less by road. On
market-days they come into town, and
on week-ends some come in again to
play golf. Duntryleague, the old home
of the Irish Dalton family who started
the Western Stores and practically
founded the town, is now given over to
Scotland’s royal and ancient game. The
co. which bought the property made
enough out of a subdivision of portion
of it to recoup all that had been paid
out in the first place. The co. leases the
links to the Orange Golf Club, which
last year showed its 600 or so members
a surplus of £l6OO.
A month ago I was a stranger to
Orange. Then I took the voluptuous
Mae’s prevailing advice and went west.
I played three holes of golf in the snow
the first day and retired to the more
congenial atmosphere of the clubhouse.
Then I holidayed in sunny, frosty weather
for a week. I went round the links with
western farmers, doctors, lawyers and
businessmen. Sometimes they were
people who had followed similar walks
of life in other parts of Australia and
Maoriland. Mostly they regarded capital
cities as a good place for a holiday, but
no place to live in for long.
In the mornings I read an Orange
journal that had a reptile (or something)
contemporary at Bathurst, the pretty
mountain town on the Macquarie that is
considered to be a rival to Orange. What
would any self-respecting country paper
be without a reptile contemporary some-
where?
On the Molong road one day a sheep-
farmer went past with a flock of a couple
of hundred woollies. He had approxi-
mately five dogs; two of them were
barking and running energetically to little
or no purpose, the others trotted uncon-
cernedly under the axle of his sulky. The
reluctant horse between the shafts was
being pulled along, per winkers, by the
sheepman, who seemed to be doing most
of the work that his four-footed servants
were meant to do, including some of the
barking. Motorists slowed down sym-
pathetically, or perhaps cautiously, while
negotiating the straggling flock.
One night at the air-conditioned pic-
ture-theatre I discussed “After the Thin
Man” and water-diviners, rotary-hoes
and imported grasses with a farmer who
was born in Maoriland, had worked on
several Queensland stations, and now
owned a property near Molong. Next
day he drove me to the Canobolas and
showed me the cherry-orchards and
week-old snow still lying about in
patches. He found his car indispensable,
but kept a horse to ride round his prop-
erty ; he had been a horseman all his
life, and was still one, though over 60.
A man with a property out near
Nyngan confided that he’d always dreamt
of some day owning a big motor-boat on
Sydney Harbor or Broken Bay. The urge
was a survival of the instincts of his
youth, when he used to sail logs on the
local river (when there was water in it).
He spoke of magpies on the plains being
about half the size of the coastal fowl,
and mentioned zebra finches that came
to his bedside on the verandah of a
morning for their breakfast. I tactlessly
talked of galahs. His face darkened.
“Before I die,” he said, “I’d like to screw
the neck of the last galah.”
The “west” isn’t a “tourist resort.” To
those who like “the land” it is a most
refreshing place for a spell.
Mr. Casey, it is reported, is selling his
“three-storey luxury home” in West-
minster, hasn’t bought an aeroplane,
won’t succeed Bruce as High Commis-
sioner and “will confine his ambitions
to a career in Australia with the chance
of becoming Prime Minister.” Presum-
ably Australia is expected to be grateful
for this confinement of Mr. Casey’s am-
bitions.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
K . .. , ....... , \ , , ,
Ao notice {except of a hostile charactei) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should
be addressed to the Editor, not to members of the staff personally.
W.J.W.: Your (mangled) quotation about black
swans is from Juvenal; Homer didn’t write in
Latin... ;C.T.8.: “I have been advised to send
my poems to your paper.” If the sample sub-
mitted fairly represents yoUr lyrical abilities it
was dashed bad advice.. . .E.S.: Unimpressive.
lbis: Try it on your school paper
N.J.J.: Nothing much beyond rhymed truisms.
. ...E.H.M.: Muddled thoughts in halting
measures W.E.G.: Sorry, but we couldn’t
find space for an effusion of that length, or a
quarter of it....E.5.: The ghoulish project
for transporting Phillip’s remains seems already
as dead as a doornail C.H.: Granny Smith
apples deserve something better than that
F.V.: The week’s worst E.L.: Don’t know
whether the Yarra sings a “sweet lilting” song,
but you don’t T.P.D.: It needs a glossary.
What the blazes are “meads of wild weld” and
“a wealth of wild wicker” in English? D.G.:
Spring poems won’t cut any ice for another
month, if then M.M.: The vin ordinaire of
verse... .H.M.C.: “Scrapped” proved true to
label M.N.: A poor old parody D.G.:
Ordinary W.M.S.: Well, you’re first in the
field with that golfer Montague idea as a
yarn, but here’s hoping there’ll be no deluge.
B.W.: Not for us M.F.: Nor is that.
... .E.F.: Not interested in the views of Gover-
nor Phillip’s ghost on the proposed import of
his bones T.H.Y.: “Nemesis played the
ace,” but thefe was nothing for the trick
H.J.P.: Failed to survive a second reading
R. 8.: Obvious —and unlikely... .H.M.: Those
two not up S.H.C.: They’re still not quite
what we want... .P.O'D.: Try it on a daily.
No, we can’t criticise by post... . R.C.8.: Too
long for what’s in it A.M.J.: Doesn’t assay
enough laughs for that sort of thing F.M.:
We’re not in the market for one-act plays—
nor any plays, for that matter FI.M.A.:
You’ve a long way to go J.S.: Nothing for
us in that batch... .M.G.J.: You should place
it elsewhere.
TO ARTISTIC fAND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
W.G.: Looks like an illustration for an im-
proved incubator T.J.: Juvenile sketches
F.C.: Persevere with your studies before send-
ing in any more... .R.G.M.: Slick linework,
“The Bulletin” welcomes sugges-
tions for humorous drawings. Only
original jokes will be considered.
A minimum payment' of 7s. 6d. each
oh acceptance.
but composition is poor J.J.L.: Did not
fancy the damsel with the garden-stake legs....
C.P.: Failed to recognise one politician in the
Speakership cartoon A.C.8.: Can’t see a
Bulletin cheque floating your way....1.L.:
Passion for gumming additions to your draw-
ing gives them a crude patchwork effect
E.N.: Remove the inartistic corpse and the
lifeless gag....V.A.: Neatly done, but off our
beat R.J.H.: Stiff figures and too many ugly
black patches A.P.: As primitive as the
primitives it portrays A.G.F.: You’re get-
ting nearer the mark M.E.: Style has pos-
sibilities; make drawings clearer... .E.P.:
Lessons called for T.R.C,: Remarks of
lubra after the happy event have appeared
before... .W.H.M.: Unimpressed by outsize
drawing of dogfight... .P.V.: Drawings are
too photographic; study more from life
M.F.: Sketch suggests a half-completed jigsaw
puzzle N.J.: Colored sketches of film stars
—out!.... A.N.G.: An illustration of the same
gag can be seen in a Pitt-street magazine-
seller’s window... .J.D.: Why dress your Aus-
tralian farm hands like American cowboys? ....
1.H.: Some slight sign of promise—keep on.
. ...W.S.: The Springboks had left long be-
fore your sketch arrived; anyway, it was in
poor taste... .5.8.: Seven-and-sixpence is
always waiting for a good original gag....
K.W.: We grow weary of shooing that soapbox
orator off the premises... .C. 5.8.: Stale and
verbose wheeze outweighs what merit the
sketch possesses... .G.R.: Lady-in-the-bath-
and-National-Anthem gag has been going the
rounds for years... .E.J.: (1) Haven’t the
space to enumerate all your faults. (2) Yes,
you can call and see a selection of our originals
whenever you please.. . .8.H.: A far-fetched
pun badly illustrated... .R.K.M.: Two dead
trees dancing together before an audience of
bolsters.
If any illustration in The Bulletin
takes your fancy, write to the manager,
who will quote you price for the original.


XMAS FIJI EXCURSION
One Week in Fiji.
R.M.S. "Niagara”
leaves Sydney 23rd Dec.,
arrives Suva 31 st Dec.
R.M.M.V. "Aorangi”
leaves
arrives
First Class Return Excursion Fare £33 (from Sydney)
leaves Suva 7th Jan.,
arrives Sydney 15th Jan.
EXCURSIONS TO HONOLULU
a delightful 7\ weeks’ trip: 19 days in Hawaii, or longer
if desired, by ’’NIAGARA and AORANGI,
sailing every four weeks from Sydney.
Return Fares:—
First Class £72. Cabin Class £52.
(From Sydney)
Apply:—
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., LTD.
(inc. in N.Z.)
247 George Street, or
Sydney
59 William Street,
Melbourne
F. C. Calvert & Co., Ltd., England.
D oes YOUR
smile
radiate
charm?
Life can be all smiles to the
woman with perfect teeth
if she cleans them with Powder.
Why powder ? Because all denti-
frices contain some powder, that’s
what does the cleaning. But Calvert’s
is ALL POWDER, that’s why it
cleans teeth better and more quickly.
CALVERTS
carbolic TOOTH POWDER
No. 4 of a series of articles on Old Cricketers.
Neither Phil May nor Livingston
Hopkins took much interest in cricket,
but the homecoming of the 1886 XI in-
spired May to do for The Bulletin the
drawing reproduced on this page —he had
in mind his colleague’s sketch of the
return of the Australian soldiers from the
Sudan. Scott’s team was certainly a col-,
lection of cripples ; and Spofforth had a
grievance that rankled when his bruises
were healed.
“The Demon” opened his heart to a
reporter. “Twice,” he said, “I have given
up positions to go to England, and I am
not going to do it any more. I can’t
afford to. Forty-five
members of Parlia-
ment assured me
that if I went to
England I would get
a good job in the
Government service
when I returned.
There is no doubt
about it I got
letters from every
one of the 45 to that
effect. So I did
what they wanted
me to do. When we
came back they told
me to apply for a
position that was
vacant and they
would see that I got
it. It was given to
someone else.”
Spoff made this
revelation when he
had become a Vic-
torian, the National
Bank having come to
the rescue. For a
time he was one of
the National’s branch
managers, but mat-
rimony did more for
him than finance or
sport could ever do.
Going to England,
he qualified for
Derbyshire and did
some great bowling
for the county and the M.C.C. When he
retired from cricket he wrote a book,
in which he told some good stories of his
old companions. In one he related how,
when the 1878 team was on its return
voyage, a storm blew up and there was
thought to be some danger. To Charlie
Bannerman he said, “What would you do
if we had to leave the ship and you were
in command of a boat and there wasn t
room enough for all of us.” “Me?”
replied Charlie, and he devoted himself
to deep thought. “I’d save Alick and
Murdoch and you and the rest of .the
fellows from New South Wales.” “And
what about the Victorians?” asked Spoff.
“Them,” quoth Charlie disgustedly; “I’d
let ’em drown.”
Charlie Bannerman was the first Aus-
tralian to make a century against a repre-
sentative English XI. Like many other
old players, he had a rocky time when his
cricket days were over, and in his latter
years was glad to get an occasional job as
bookmaker's clerk.
A maintenance fund, such as the good-
RETURN OF THE CRICKET CONTINGENT (1886).
Scott, the captain, is gazing at the line of cripples; Spofforth is flying away (to matnmony). One/A etto ng i
Bonnor, Giffen, Jarvis, Garrett, J.W. Trumble, Trott, Blackham, Palmer, Bannerman and Bruce.
hearted Joe Darling is earnestly recom-
mending, would have been a godsend to
poor old Bannerman. The wherewithal
could be supplied out of the profits on
more frequent tours of Australia by Eng-
lish teams. A visit every fourth year by
a team not composed of first-eleven men
nor required to play Test matches would
relieve the monotony of Sheffield Shield
cricket and enable Australians to see Eng-
lishmen who might conceivably be more
interesting, if not more proficient, players
than the regulars whose methods they
know so well. It is notorious that Aus-
tralian selectors have made dreadful mis-
takes, such as the exclusion of Kippax
from Australian elevens for 10 years, and
the sidetracking of Grimmett for in-
ferior bowlers like Hartkopf and Mailey,
and the chances are that equally bad mis-
takes have been made in England.
In the summer of 1887-88, there were
two English teams in Australia, Lord
Hawke’s and Lillywhite’s. Lord Hawke
had for associates G. F. Vernon, A. E.
Newton, A. E. Stoddart, T. C. O'Brien,
W. W. Read and such first-class profes-
sionals as Peel, Attewell and Abel. He
arrived the Hon. M. B. Hawke. His
father, the sixth baron, dying not long
afterwards, he returned to England, leav-
ing the side to be skippered by Vernon.
Lilly white’s team included Shrewsbury,
Ulyett, Lohmann, Briggs, Maurice Read,
Pougher and C. A. Smith.
It had been thought that W. G. Grace
would come with Lord Hawke and Stod-
dart, but Australians had to put up with
a biography of W.G. instead. In this
masterpiece a long succession of records
was claimed for the bearded doctor, the
scene of one being placed in a Ballarat
dining-room. The biographer boasted
that his hero had there killed 90 flies
with one sweep of his gigantic hand. A
Victorian critic questioned this achieve-
ment, but allowed that W.G. had run up
the biggest wine bill that the Melbourne
C.C. had ever been called upon to pay
for a single cricketer.
W.G.’s terms for an Australian tour
were said to be £l5OO. The Melbourne
club, which brought
out Lord Hawke's
team, was said to
have paid W. W.
Read £1137 10s.,
“retaining fee and
expenses, self and
wife.”
C. A. Smith came
from Sussex, and
was known on Eng-
lish grounds as
“Round the Corner
Smith” from his
style of bowling. He
was a first - class
bowler, indeed a
very good all-
rounder : in Aus-
tralia he took 98
wickets at 4.38, and
made 444 runs,
averaging 14.24. The
bowling figures look
phenomenal, but ac-
tually many of the
sides that Smith,
Briggs, Lohmann
and Pougher went
through were coun-
try —22 of Castle-
m a i n e, 22 of
Hawkesbury, 22 of
Gippsland, 18 of
Benalla, 18 of North
Tasmania, 18 of
Parrramatta and so
on. Smith’s prowess
with the ball was, however, demonstrated
against much stiffer opposition, and the
strength of his team was shown by the
fact that it defeated Combined Australia
at Sydney by an innings and 78 runs and
the sixth Australian XI (McDonnell’s)
by 87 runs.
“Round the Corner” is known to the
present generation as Aubrey Smith, of
Hollywood. He has introduced cricket
there, and many moving-picture actors


STUL
•IrHE «\
.IOHTII'IQ
“LISTER-LITE
LIGHTING PLANTS
'
Hi
In N.S.W. alone, there are over 2000 “Lister-
Lite” installations in Country Homes. Add
your name to this ever-increasing list of satisfied
owners. Write to-day for particulars—you’ll
be under no obligation.
driven by
isTen
British Bmtf
Diesel Engines
&
m
I
11
S
■
m
m
The use of the Lister Diesel Engine is cutting
generating costs to a minimum. For every
purpose you will find a Lister Engine to give
you unfailing and economical power.
Sole Agents for N.S.W.:
C
Malloch House, 10-14 Young Street, Sydney.
ff
have learned from his examole, and that
of Ronald Colmari, how to bat, bowl
and field. Pity a lot of them can’t profit
from the association by learning how to
act. Aubrey Smith has forgotten more
about acting than three-fourths of the
alleged stars will ever learn.
Vernon’s team lost only two matches
—to New South Wales. It found Harry
Moses, lately named president of the
N.S.W. Cricket Association, in succes-
sion to H. H. Massie, its greatest snag
among Australian batsmen. Once, after
Moses had put the N.S.W. team in a win-
ning position with a masterly 109, Smith,
called upon to reply to the toast of the
Englishmen at a Cricket Ground lunch,
uttered a humorous protest. He said
“We have had the doubtful pleasure of
trying to get Mr. Moses out. Moses?
I’m sorry Pharaoh’s daughter didn’t
leave that infant among the bulrushes.”
At Melbourne Vernon’s and Lilly-
white’s teams played draws with 18
Juniors. Junior cricket had begun to
flourish in Melbourne, and during the
following decade it drew bigger crowds
than the seniors got for their club
matches; in fact, it was a far greater
magnet to the public than Melbourne
pennant or Sydney grade cricket is now.
In Dr. Mailer and the Rush brothers it
had cricketers almost good enough for
an international side. But some of the
“juniors” whom Lillywhite’s men en-
countered were a thought elderly. “Look
at yon coughdrop,” said Ulyett, point-
ing to the smallest man in the field. “It
wouldn’t seem oot o’ place if I called him
feyther.”
Joining forces, the Englishmen beat
Combined Australia at Sydney by 126
runs —two more than the Australian total
for 20 wickets. As if that wasn’t enough
to show their mettle, Vernon’s side beat
one eleven of Australians and Lilly-
white’s side another on the same day,
the matches being played at Melbourne
and Sydney. It was dolefully remarked
after the Melbourne game that not since
the visit of the Hon. Ivo Bligh’s team
five years before had the Englishmen
been beaten on the Melbourne C.C.
Judged on performances, Lillywhite’s
team was a bit stronger than Vernon’s.
Anyway, at Sydney, it beat Combined
Australia by five wickets, the sixth Aus-
tralian XI by an innings and 42, and, in
a return match, by 158.
These repeated defeats were bad
auguries for the 1888 invasion of Eng-
land, and the superstitious found still
more unfavorable omens in an amazing
series of family misfortunes that dogged
Percy McDonnell, the captain. First, he
lost his mother. Then a brother who had
been studying for the church at Lynd-
hurst college died of consumption. Then
his eldest sister died while the doctor
attending the case was writing a pre-
scription. Next his father, sometime
Attorney-General of Victoria, was
stricken down by paralysis. Finally his
only remaining brother was killed in a
tram accident in Melbourne.
The tour opened brilliantly. C. I.
Thornton’s XI, always a strong combina-
tion, was beaten by six wickets, and in
succession Warwickshire, Surrey, Oxford
and Yorkshire were disposed of, with, in
each case, an innings to spare. Turner
was already known as “The Terror,” and
his beautifully easy action and that of
Ferris, the left-hander, were greatly
admired.
A change came over the scene when
the match against Lancashire was lost by
23 runs. Then the Players beat the tour-
ists on the Oval by 10 wickets, and Not-
tingham beat them by 10 wickets on the
county ground.
Sammy Jones, who had been repeat-
ing his fine 1886 form, contracted small-
pox and the side lost his services after
only a third of the matches had been
played. Sammy Woods, then a youth at
Cambridge, was substituted, but Sammy
didn’t come off with either bat or ball.
However, he was a member of the side
that beat AH England at Lord’s: 116
and 60 against 53 and 62. It was a
bowlers’ victory, Turner’s figures being
5 for 27 and 5 for 36, and those of
Ferris 3 for 19 and 5 for 26.
Turner’s bowling at this period was
wonderful. In seven consecutive matches,
North of England, All England and an
eleven of England being among the
opposing sides (the eleven of England
was beaten by an innings and 35), he
actually took 80 wickets for 428 runs.
But as the tour went on the weakness
of the batting manifested itself. In the
second Test match, at the Oval, though
Turner took six good wickets for 112,
the Englishmen scored 317, the Austra-
lians only 80 and 100. In the third
match, played at Manchester, England
made 172 (Turner 5 for 86); Australia
81 and 70, Peel taking 11 for 68.
The Australians had begun August
auspiciously by beating another eleven of
England by an innings and 27 runs and
Kent by 81 runs; but the next seven
matches resulted in six losses and a
draw. And success over a third eleven
of England was followed by three more
defeats.
In all, the tourists won 19 matches,
lost 14 and drew 7. Turner took 314
wickets at 11.38, Ferris 220 at 14.23.
McDonnell, Bonnor and Trott were the
most successful batsmen, their aggre-
gates and averages being, respectively,
1393 at 22.51, 1204 at 19.45 and 1212
at 19.15.
It was a wet season in more respects I
than one. A music-hall lyrist of the
period acknowledged that the tourists
would have done a lot better “If it wasn’t
for the Sundays in between.” An Aus-
tralian reviewer wrote that “the team
consisted of two bowlers, one batsman
(reliable), one batsman (unreliable), an-
other batsman (first-class if strictly
sober), another batsman (first-class if just
comfortably drunk) and an awful tail.”
It was Percy McDonnell’s farewell to
international cricket. He went to Queens-
land, but fell on evil days, and in the
last phase was seen wearing an outfit
composed of a cricket cap, a dogger
coat, flannel pants and tennis shoes. He
died in 1896 in his 37th year—so broke
that the hat had to be taken round to
save, the good fellow, whose glorious
batting had delighted the cricket crowds
of two countries, from a 'pauper’s funeral.
Another tragic argument for the fund
Joe Darling wants to establish.
N.S.W. Education Minister Drum-
mond, speaking at a Pioneer Circle lunch
in Sydney, reviewed the world’s efforts to
organise social service. * In London last
year he saw a new city that had been
formed on the outskirts—“the wonderful
London County Council had simply
moved ten thousand families and placed
them in homes built on lines to make a
model town.”
* * * #
Lady Grey Egerton, once Amy Cum-
ming, of Melbourne, is saying good-bye
to Oulton Park, Cheshire (Eng.), where
she has spent many happy years. With
the death of Sir Philip Grey Egerton the
estate passes into other hands. Lady
Grey Egerton is soon to be joined by one
of her sisters, Mrs. S. Ledger Robertson,
who has left Melbourne to place her
son William at Oxford. Bill will
represent the fourth generation of Rob-
ertsons at this seat of learning. Mrs.
Tom F. Cumming, mother of Lady Grey
Egerton, died last month at the age of 92.
* * * *
Being on her native heath, Mrs. W.
Mortill, a Melbourne lady, saw more on
her recent visit to Russia than most
people see. She had the advantage, also,
of being able to translate for herself the
news of the day that came over the radio
three times every 24 hours. Russia is
radio crazy. Every railway station can
turn on music. This traveller had her
luggage searched by the Customs to the
accompaniment of a foxtrot. She agreed
with the poster pasted on the wall : “Life
is better now. Life is more jolly.” But,
although Russia is the land of furs,
women in other countries wear them.
Good shoes are about the Australian
equivalent of £4 a pair, so most of the
working people have taken to sandshoes.
Still, Mrs. Mortill found the Caucasus’s
water wastes harnessed for industry, pas-
sengers steamers running from Moscow
to Astrakhan, and ’planes travelling to
the Arctic.


“Orwell”: The man who runs our
flats presents what might be called a
dual personality. In the morning he
appears in shirtsleeves and old pants
with a chin like a nutmeg-grater; he
drives a hard bargain with the bottle-
oh, pockets his commission from the
tradesmen and is not above doing odd
jobs for tenants in return for tips. That
is the caretaker. The transformation
comes in the afternoon, when he changes
his manner with his clothes and becomes
manager of the establishment. In this
role he is a rigid disciplinarian. One
pretty painted doll who had exchanged
amenities with the manager over a period
was very indignant when she was igno-
miniously ordered out for non-payment
of rent. Vindictively, through her tears,
she fired her Parthian arrow in the hear-
ing of his wife: “That’s what a girl
gets for taking care of the caretaker! ”
“Booze”: A pub title which comes
back to me across the years is “The Five
Alls.” Beneath the name five separate
figures were displayed. First came Vic-
toria, who reigned over all; fol-
lowed by the parson who prayed for all,
the advocate who pleaded for all and
the soldier who fought for all. Last was
Boniface himself, portrayed shoving a
foaming pot across the counter with the
legend: “I serve all.” The pub was doing
business at Gosport (Eng.) in the late
’eighties, but had disappeared when I
last visited the place.
“Cooramin”: Quaint tavern titles? The
“No Good Damper Inn” was a curiosity
near Dandenong (Vic.) ; some blacks had
made damper with stolen lime on the
spot. The “Jump Up” was a pub on the
Flinders where patrons mostly fell down
and fantods jumped up. But can any-
body rake up one to beat the “Stinking
Goat Hotel,” a caravanserai that
flourished near Jerilderie (N.S.W.) in the
hectic days of the Kelly gang?
* * * *
“Chancery Lane”: Seven barristers
argued in Vic. Supreme Court recently
as to who was the particular woman that
looked after another woman in her last
hours. Mrs. Sarah Ardill, of Hawthorn,
had directed, “I wish the residue of any
moneys to be given to the woman who
attends me in my final illness.” She had
been an invalid for some years before
her death, and six women claimed to be
the person she intended to benefit, but
the evidence showed that only two of
them had actually attended her on the
day of her death. One of these was a
witness to the will, which ordinarily
would have prevented her from sharing
in the estate, but the Judge ruled that
the words “the woman who attends me”
could be. construed in the plural, and, as
the other woman had agreed to divide
the money, the two actually in attendance
at the death were entitled to the legacy.
So, after barristers and solicitors have
drawn their costs, the two women share
what will be left of £2500.
* * * *
“Oxymoron”: Quaint turns of speech?
A “S.M.H.” article records that the first
edition of Hovell and Hume’s Expedition
to Port Phillip, published in 1831, has
completely vanished, but that the second
edition is a “common rarity.” One has
heard of “laborious idleness” and “cruel
kindness,” but what is, or can be, a
common rarity?
* * X *
“General de Rangement”: “Colonel
Bungstarter” (B. 14/7/’37) wants to know
what a modern officer has to do with
sword exercises. A sword is an essential
part of the training of every cavalry
officer; it gives the would-be officer
poise and balance on a horse. Further,
a sword is an essential part of the equip-
ment of every infantry officer. If swords
were abolished, what would officers do
for arms on ceremonial parades? It
would be just as reasonable for the
Colonel to suggest abolishing the swagger
cane, gloves and Sam Browne belt.
* * * *
“Old Q.”: Reference to the old Shaks-
peare Hotel in Brisbane (B. 21/7/’37) re-
calls that long ago Brisbane’s leading
Chez Terlier was situated just round the
corner in Mary-street. Close by this es-
tablishment was the Synagogue, and a
minute’s walk along George-street
towards Queen-street brought one to St.
John’s Pro-Cathedral, so all tastes were
catered for.
* * * *
“Floreat”: A Sydney “D.T.” re-
viewer, after discussing a book recently
published on English public schools, con-
temptuously dismissed them all as homes
of snobbery and class distinction where
boys were sent for any reason except to
be educated. The indictment brought an
incisive rejoinder from C. E. W. Bean,
an old Cliftonian, who warmly criticised
most of the statements and stigmatised at
least one of them as “a foul libel/’ Bean’s
letter was published in full, with a foot-
note giving the views of some “not undis-
tinguished Englishmen” which might be
held to support the reviewer’s contentions.
It began with a statement credited, doubt-
less with perfect truth, to Major Attlee,
Labor leader in the House of Commons:
Waterloo may have been won on the
playing fields of Eton, but Abyssinia was
certainly lost on the playing fields of
Harrow.
It is almost incredible that the point of
this gentle bit of satire should have been
so completely missed, even at this dis-
tance. Baldwin and Hoare, of course,
were both at Harrow. Attlee himself is
an old public-school boy, from Hailey-
bury.
* * -H: *
“Coot”: A hotelkeeper near Ringwood
(Vic.) decided to replace his old weather-
board pub with a more imposing brick
building, and spent a few thousand
pounds in erecting the new structure on
a corner allotment on the opposite side
of the street. Upon its completion he
applied for a transfer of the license. This
was promptly refused, and at time of
writing the large building remains un-
occupied. In Vic. the pub license is
granted to the site and not to the
hostelry.
;|c :j: jJj *
“Mallam”: The long-drawn-out howls
of a car’s siren disturbing the quietness
of one of Melbourne’s lanes, I went out
to investigate, and found three truck-
“Trouble with you Women you're not traffic-minded !”
drivers grouped around a shining sedan
which was obstructing their progress. One
of them was pressing the horn button,
while the others were making sanguinary
threats about what they would do to the
blanky driver wh6n he appeared. Just
then a snappy little piece of femininity
materialised and slithered into the driving
seat, displaying as she did so a very nice
pair of silk-clad legs. I have never seen
three men so taken aback. “My Gawd,
miss,” said one of them when he had re-
covered his breath, “it’s a good thing you
ain’t a man.” The vision only smiled
sweetly as she pressed the starter.
* * * *
“Schoolie”: If blue eyes are needed
for marksmanship, young Melbourne,
will not shine at Bisley. I have filled in
“color of eyes” on hundreds of medical
cards of Melbourne, children. Pure blue
and black were the rarest colors re-
corded, the former mainly for Scots and
Danes, and the latter for Chinese and
Syrians. Hazel —varying from a greyish-
yellow to a light brown —was the domi-
nant color for genuine Australians.
Among the older children, under “color
of hair” there were five “dark” entries
to every “fair” one ; and it seemed as
if the nicknames “Ginger” and “Carrots”
would soon be obsolete.
sK * * *
“Colonel Bungstarter”: It is just 50
years since that charming and aristo-
cratic lady Mrs. Gordon Baillie swept
three Australian capitals into a perfect
furore of sympathy for the sad plight
of Scottish crofters. Society was thrilled
by her delightful, cultured personality,
financiers admired her excellent busi-
ness capacity, Governments responded to
her moving appeals on behalf of a desir-
able class of hardworking immigrant.
Money poured in and Tasmania offered
her 500,000 acres in the Flinders Islands
for a settlement. Then arrived a quiet,
grim man from Scotland Yard, and Mrs.
Gordon Baillie, after distressing and
somewhat protracted social changes, dis-
appeared from the scene. Her social
charm had been acquired as a waitress
in a Scottish fish-and-chips joint, her
financial acumen from illegal dealings
with other people’s assets, and there
never had been any Mr. Gordon Baillie
or estates in the Highlands.
* * * *
“Apella”: “De Shuff” is right in his
statement that no orthodox Jew was per-
mitted to sit in the House of Commons
until 1858 (B. 28/7/’37), but two, at
least, were elected thereto years before.
The City of London gave Baron Lionel
de Rothschild a thumping majority in
1849, and Greenwich returned one
Salomons in 1851. Neither could get
the Parliamentary sliprails let down for
him. Salomons was allowed to become
the first Jewish Lord Mayor of London
in 1855, but Rothschild was returned
again twice before he was enabled to
write M.P. after his name. Salomons
joined him at Westminster a little later
on. Their exclusion was not the fault
of the Commons; several times they
passed the Jewish Oath Bill, and
several times the Lords would have none
of it. It wasn’t until 1860 that the last
vestige of discrimination was removed
by an Act permitting Jewish Ms.P. to
omit from the oath the words “on the
faith of a Christian,” which might have
been a stumbling-block to Hebrews more
rigidly orthodox than Rothschild and
Salomons.
# * * *
“O’F.”: “Alpha,” rating the ignorance
of Sassenachs (B. 21/7/’37), slipped
when he wrote of the “extant Irish Orgham
alphabet.” The Ogham— not “Orgham”
—writing had passed out before the com-
ing of the English. Chambers’s Twentieth
Century Dictionary gives—with an illus-
tration —’“Ogham, an ancient Irish writ-
ing in straight lines crossing each other.”
If “Alpha” can read those characters, he
would be welcome in Ireland to decipher
inscriptions on ancient memorials. Actu-
ally, modern Irish lettering is very like
the Roman form.
* * * *
“Fi. fa.”: Motorists who use parking
stations will be interested in a recent
decision of the English Court of Appeal.
A car-owner regularly used a station
where he was well known. Station
practice was to serve all customers with a
card disclaiming responsibility for safe
custody or damage, parking being solely
at owners risk. A man called and repre-
sented himself as a friend of the owner,
who had lent him the car for an urgent
summons to a sick friend. He produced
a card showing the make, model, color
and registration number, and was allowed
to take it away. Neither he nor the
car could be traced afterwards. A
County Court awarded damages to the
owner against the station proprietor, but
on appeal the decision was reversed, a
unanimous verdict stating that the con-
ditions on the card protected the pro-
prietor against claims, as there was no
contract on his part not to deliver the
car. Definite instruction not to deliver
the car in any circumstances without
owner’s previous consent is needed for
responsibility on the station proprietor's
part.
* * *
“Cap’n Bells”: Newspaper-reading is
a happy-go-lucky business with some
people. Some Blenheim (M.L.) residents
recently received a letter of sympathy
from a relative in one of the Dominion
cities, expressing regret at the disastrous
fire that had wiped out the business centre
of Blenheim. Puzzled, for there had been
no fire, the Blenheimites found the ex-
planation in a report of a blaze in the
“Fifty Years Ago” column of a daily
paper where their relative lived.
* $ * *
“Coot”: Victoria’s Railway Commis-
sioner Clapp has decided to bestow the
names of early-day celebrities on the
four streamlined locomotives which will
haul the Sydney limited express over the
Victorian section of the journey. The
engine already on the run has been
known simply as No. 8301 ; it will be the
Sir Thomas Mitchell. The other three
will be known respectively as the
Matthew Flinders, Edward Plenty and
G. J. Latrobe. The train hauled at
present by Sir Thomas Mitchell is un-
officially known to Vic. railway em-
ployees as the “Thunderclap.”
* * * *
“Dungeness”: The remains of a pub,
some broken bottles and a wrecked jetty
are all that is left of the glory that once
shone upon Sweers Island in the Gulf
of Carpentaria, off the mouth of the
Gregory. Soon after the Burketown
settlement was formed in the early ’six-
ties, a barque with supplies from Java
entered the river, her crew so smitten
with bilious remittent malaria that all
died. A stockman came across the
death ship, and, after reporting it at the
settlement, developed the disease. It
spread rapidly, and soon killed more
than half the township population. The
rest cleared out to Sweers Island, where
the climate was believed to be better—
as modern science realises, it had no
malaria-carrying mosquitoes. The disease
was long regarded locally as yellow
fever, and old hands, even to the present
day, allude to the form of malaria which
still exists thereabouts as “Yellow Jack.
:’fi -I' *
“Swagger”: An old petrol-drum
doesn’t have to be kept sealed up to
retain a devastating kick (B. 14/7/’37).
A petrol tank of mine had been taken
off the. bus and left lying round the yard
for 18 months. Along came a neigh-
bor with a covetous look. I told him he
could have it, and he got busy with an
oxy-torch, after making sure it was bone-
dry. The next minute he was on his
back, and the tank lay about in five
pieces. The other piece was in the shed.
Escaping with a flesh wound, he swore
he’d make sure any other tank he tackled
didn’t have a double bottom.
* * * *
“Molar”: An old M.L. dentist had his
own theory of dental decay (B. 21/7/’37).
He put most of it down to civilised man’s
addiction to hot food, and especially hot
beverages. Uncivilised man, he pointed
out, was content to eat his food raw or
lightly cooked ; the hot foods, hot plates
and general heat the modern diner
regards as indispensable were unknown
to him. Man in the wild knew no hot
drink. Civilised man from birth is
regaled with beverages as warm as he
can take them.
N* * * • *
“El V.” on a historic residence:
No. 10 Downing-street can do with the
£13,000 which is to be spent on it. Though it
has been hacked about until the interior re-
sembles a white-ants’ nest, it has not had a
thorough overhaul since the days of “Pitt, port
and politics,” when £ll,OOO was spent on what
the press of 1785 jeeringly called the Great
Repair. Townshend at No. 10 took the
measures which led to the loss of the American
colonies. North presided at dinner there—an
ancestor of Anthony Eden was present and
remarked that he was more afraid of a guest s
pistol than of the howling mob of Gordon
rioters outside. Pitt was drinking his re S u ‘ 3r
nightly bottle in solitude when No. 10 heard the
decision to colonise Botany Bay. An ordinal)
London brick front merging into other brick
fronts, three windows wide, No. 10 is three
storeys and an attic high. The vaulted root o
the kitchen obtrudes itself into the Cabinets
waiting-room, which used to be the laundr).
The P.M. lives on the first floor, and his stud)
windows look down about a dozen teet on
the open street pavement beyond the area
railings, where a crowd of journalists S 3t ' ie t
when anything big is happening, and shout
their queries to ingoers and outgoers in the
most matey fashion. The overhaul will pos-
sibly remove the smell of Macassar oil an
old leather and make No. 10 more convenien •
but it would take a good deal more than
£13,000 to raise its present luxury standard u
that of. say, the Australian Prime Ministers
suite in the Sydney Commonwealth Bank build-
ing.


ft
r.
v
/
/
'4T.
He doesn’t want
to hurt you
The PEOPLE who are afraid of
the dentist are the people who do not
consult him until they have tooth-
ache. Your dentist is more interested
in protecting your teeth than he is in
repairing them. Go to him regularly
for examination and you will escape
a lot of pain and trouble.
4 out of 5
is grim pyorrhea’s count
TAENTAL STATISTICS tell this grim
story: four people out of every five
are destined, through neglect, to contract
pyorrhea after they pass the age of forty.
Thousands younger also suffer.
Pyorrhea is the dread disease of the
gums which is responsible often for loss of
teeth, rheumatism, neuritis and other
dangerous disorders.
It starts with tender bleeding gums.
Pockets form below the teeth and poisons
spread relentlessly through the body.
If you have pyorrhea or any of its symp-
toms see your dentist at once and start
brushing your teeth with Forhan’s for the
Gums.
To safeguard yourself against pyorrhea
make Forhan’s your regular dentifrice. It
is the formula of R. J. Forhan, D.D.S.,
and contains Forhan’s Pyorrhea Astringent,
which is used by thousands of Dentists in
the treatment of pyorrhea.
If used regularly and used in time it will
prevent pyorrhea or check its course. Don’t
give this insidious disease a chance to start.
Start using Forhan’s this very day.
Price 2/-; extra-large tube 3/-.
A ustralasian A gents :
The Sheldon Drug Co., Ltd., Sydney.
Forhan’s
for the gums
- •
mam
RHE
BRUSH YOPRMEE-TH
&FORMQITA=C
r-setnj^
wztmmmmm
PAR £ P3.gQß^£jg==
:• p r e;s cwjmi o NFrgf=-TKjE=
FOEMHSEB^OJI^aS'
WiL
MORE THAN A TOOTHPASTE IT PREVENTS PYORRHEA
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK'S ISSUE OF VOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
k
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
\V
#
#:
I
< ■
C°'
'
w
**V”
&
V
«y V
<$
\V V
f #
AC*
co^
’’ “ ,$e e
0^
&
\s s
‘a
V 0<
.•• 0 v o


■
&
y-<y-yMM
H
mm
II
m ■
TASMA MODEL “415”
BATTERY MODEL DE
LUXE.
This remarkable 7-valve Dual
Wave Battery Receiver operates
from a 2-volt heavy-duty 15-
plate A battery. The .receiver
can be operated for 150 hours
between charges. LOW “B”
BATTERY DRAIN is an out-
standing- feature. Feather—Light
KapkLAfomentum Tuning Drive.
Dial Light Switch, Permeability
Tuned Intermediate Frequency
Transformers, Air, Trimmer Con-
densers, Continuously Variable-
Tone Control. and 10-inch
Special Permanent Magnet
Speaker.
43 Guineas.
In Homestead or Carmen
Cabinet.
TASMA MODEL “435”
DUAL WAVE DE LUXE
This new 5-,-valve dual- wave
Tasma is available in the
“Homestead” cabinet or in the
distinctive “Carmen.'’ The
Tasma “135” sets an entirely
new .price standard for dual
wave receivers. In addition to
the broadcast, band, all overseas
stations from 15 -50 metres can
be easily tuned,
Price: 28 Guineas.
This Receiver is also offered' m
the “Uumriut” table model for
22 Guineas.
HOMESTEAD
CABINET
CARMEN
CABINET
TASMA STAR FEATURES for 1937
COMPARE WITH THOSE OF ANY OTHER RECEIVER.
• SUPER-SIZE 20-INCH EDGELIT
GLASS DIAL! Each scale acid-etched
into the glass, colour-filled and flood-
lit. In addition to the calibrated
short-wave scale (on dual wave sets
only) ALL 103 AUSTRALIAN
STATIONS are indicated with hair-
line accuracy.
9 TWO SEPARATE AND DIFFER-
ENTLY COLOURED TUNING
SCALES are fitted to dual wave dials.
The colour of the lighting changes
when you switch from broadcast to
short wave, or vice versa.
9 EXTRA TUNING RANGE at each
end of the broadcast band and the
short-wave band has been extended
to tune from 16 to 50 metres.
9 FEATHER-LIGHT RAPID-
MOMENTUM HIGH-SPEED TUNING
CONTROL. The swiftest and most
accurate tuning equipment ever
evolved. The indicator can be swung
completely round the dial with one
light flick of finger and thumb—yet
so perfectly controlled that even the
most remote station can he tuned with
micrometer accuracy.
9 HERMETICALLY SEALED,
DUST-PROOF AIR TRIMMER CON-
DENSERS—N EW IMPROVED
FERRO-COIL—OPTIONAL AERIAL
TAP ensure permanent factory-
perfect reproduction even in the most
difficult areas, and no matter how
close the Tasma owner may live to a
powerful broadcasting station. A sure
safeguard against background hiss,
“jittering,” etc., give EXTRA DAY-
LIGHT RANGE to the man in the
country.
© SPECIAL DIAL LIGHT SWITCH
enables the dial light to be extin-
guished when the station has been
tuned in, thus reducing drain on
accumulator.
© EXTRA VOLUME! The new
Tasma can be tuned from the faintest
whisper to full “dance hall” volume
without the slightest suspicion of dis-
tortion or whistle.
• LOW “A” BATTERY COSTS—CHEAPER REPLACEMENT COSTS—
ACCUMULATOR EASY TO CARRY BECAUSE OF REDUCED WEIGHT.
no wonder every
radio critic says
“BUY THE NEW
c lafancC
TASMA MODEL “475” (DUAL WAVE)
This 5-valve Dual Wave Receiver is designed to work on
a 6-volt accumulator only.
This special vibrator-operated B-battery-less Set gives an
All Electric performance—remarkable daylight range—
and plays all principal overseas stations as well as
Australian.
Price, 38 Guineas.
Complete with Heavy Duty 6-volt Accumulator.
In "Gumnut" Cabinet, 32 Guineas.
TASMA DE LUXE MODEL “480.”
The illustration shows the Tasma “480” in the beautiful
“Carmen” cabinet constructed of distinctive figured
veneers of Queensland maple and walnut. In addition to
excellent broadcast performance this model provides
exceptional results on short-wave; it is a set which will
give good daylight reception in every country district.
Also available in the “Homestead” cabinet, or—for those
who prefer the table model—in the already popular
"Gumnut” type.
Price (including long-life two-volt accumu- 04 p..' „
lator and three 45-volt Superdyne B batteries) *5“ viulncao
If in “Gumnut” Cabinet, 28 Guineas.
HARVESTER CABINET
TASMA MODEL “430” DE LUXE
5 VAE VE BROADCAST RECEIVER.
It is stated after exhaustive tests that no other
broadcast receiver at the price of the Tasiiia
“430” can gave such magnificent performance.
Offered in popular “Harvester” cabinet (as
illustrated) or in the new “Ronsard” cabinet
by Beale, this receiver possesses all the
NEW TASMA STAR FEATURES.
Price, 23 Guineas.
[Also available in the “Gumnut ’ table
cabinet, I'J guineas.)
mmz.
GUMNUT CABINET
THE SURPRISE CABINET OF 1937
THE “GUMNUT” TABLE CABINET.
A special Table Cabinet to listeners who
require something smaller than a console. It
should be noted, however, that, in spite of the
reduced dimensions of this cabinet, standard
chassis and speaker are used, giving console
performance and tonal reproduction.
Any of the following models are available—
-430-435, 475-480, as described in this
advertisement.
Model "430" De Luxe A C. Model in “Gumnut”
Table Cabinet.
Price, 19 Guineas.
Model "435" A C. Dual Wave De Luxe
Receiver in "Gumnut’’ Table Cabinet.
Price, 22 Guineas.
ler
models range
from 15 to 56 Cns.
ķ
Victoria: HARTLEYS I*TY„ LTD., 'iW
I'linders Street, Melbourne.
JOHN HOLIAVAY AND SONS. f,Q Armstrong
Street, North, Ballarat. (Ballarat Distributors.)
South Australia: OLIVER NILS LN
and CO., LTD., 49 Kins William Street,
Adelaide.
Queensland : G. J. GRICE. LTD., 80 Queen
Street, Brisbane.
And Branches at Rockhampton, Towns-
ville, Cairns and Mackay.
Queensland —Darling Downs: ROSEN-
STENGELS I’TV., DTD., Rutliven Street,
Toowoomba.
Western Australia: CAItLVLE & CO.,
915-917 Hay Street, Perth.
New Zealand : NEW ZEALAND ELECT KIC
EQUIPMENT. LTD., Wakefield Chambers,
Wellington, N.Z.
Tasmania: NOTES BROS. (MELD.) P**jj
DTD., 36 Argyle Street, Hobart. And oJ
George Street, Launceston.
of THOM AND SMITH, LIMITED, 29-39 Botany Road, Mascot.
