

£
FOR THE FIRST TIME IN
TRALIA NEW RADIOS BEARING
THIS FAMOUS ENGLISH NAME
Since before broadcasting began
Mullard have been in the forefront of
radio. Receiving valves for the millions
huge transmitting valves for the
Navy and now. Master Radio for
Empire homes.
v m ■' mffik
Wr- £&■
•'■•/'• 1
* Yif .
■
*
.
’ ' <
«
•3*
Sill
pm
r
%:
mmm
S'
(At left)
MULLARD MASTER MODEL 72 5 VALVE.
Vibrator powered Broadcast Beceiver for operation from a
G volt accumulator only—thus requiring neither B nor C
batteries. Similar in sterling performance to the Master 71.
but housed in heavier cabinet with Acoustex Sound Front and
metal fret bars.
Price: 33 gns. complete
MULLARD MASTER MODEL 80 5 VALVE.
All-World range A.C. Receiver with outstanding characteristics
from the point of view of both Broadcast and Short-wave.
Chassis of quality components and robust design embodying
every accepted modern radio engineering feature. Generous
10" speaker.
Price: 26i gns. complete
£
(Above)
MANTEL MODELS IN ZONITE
MASTER 50—5 valve A.C.
Broadcast 15 gns.
complete,
MASTER 60—5 valve A.C.
(At left)
All world—l 9 gns,
complete.
MULLARD MASTER MODEL 70
—5 VALVE.
Broadcast A.C. Receiver with large-circle
edgelit dial dearly calibrated in State
divisions. Tone control A.V.C. local
distant switch and velvet volume adjust-
ment.
Housed in refreshing modem cabinet of
chosen matched veneers with exclusive
Milliard Acoustex Sound Front.
Price: 23 gns. complete
MULLARD MASTER MODEL 71
—5 VALVE.
Battery operated Broadcast Receiver for
Australia's country homes. Sensitive -
full throated yet economical. Cabinet
as for the Master 70.
Price: 28 gns. complete
a
m
u ii m
Milliard
MASTER RADIO
INTERSTATE DISH
Victoria:
HOWARD RADIO PTY. LTD.
Veto Street, Richmond, E.l,
Tasmania!
HOWARD RADIO <£ CO.
33 Argyle Street.
Hobart.
Queensland:
TRACKSON BROS.' PTY. LTD.
157 Elizabeth Street,
Brisbane.
S.A.:
R. C. WOOLLARD
18 Chesser Street,
Adelaide.
W.A.:
CARLYLE & COMPANY
915 Hay Street/
Perth.
THE MULLARD RADIO COMPANY (AUST.) PTY.,
• .■ ■■
■ ';; r r ....; . , .
LTD., 26-30 CLARENCE ST., SYDNEY.
’Phone: 87446 (2 LINES).
The Bulletin
VoL 58.—N0. 2991.
Wednesday, June 9, 1937.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


DYMOCK’S LIBRARY CATALOGUE
with terms and particulars, will be sent
post free to any address on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
“The Block,”
424'426 George Street, Sydney.
►J
man
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne .
CUT HERE AND MAID
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the. Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
My Address
S. H. Prior Memorial Prize
Third Competition, Closing June 6, 1937.
Full particulars of this annual literary award will be published
here from time to time, or may be had on application to The
Bulletin, 252 George-street, Sydney.
For this current competition only novels are eligible, and the
Prize will be awarded to that which is considered the most
outstanding contribution to Australian literature.
The trustees will publish the successful work in book form,
and in serial form any they may deem worthy. If published as a
serial the winner will be paid for at serial rates in addition to the
prize-money. Any others used as serials will also be paid for at
serial rates.
Any bona fide Australian resident or any person born in
Australia, New Zealand or British South Pacific islands will be
eligible to enter for the competition works which must be the
original work of the entrants, and previously unpublished, either
wholly or in part, in book or serial form. Manuscripts must be
submitted under a nom de plume, and the true name and address
of the author must accompany each entry in a sealed envelope,
which will not be opened until the judges have made their decision.
The trustees reserve the right to withhold the Prize if no work
submitted is, in the opinion of the judges, worthy of an award;
If this should occur in any year, the amount of the Prize will be
added to the following year’s Prize.
The Red Page
TOM COLLINS AND HIS BOOKS.
In addition to miscellaneous work “Tom Collins”
(Joseph Furphy) published two books, Such Is Life
—originally published by The Bulletin and now,
abridged by Vance Palmer, issued by Cape—and
Rigby’s Romance.
Poet Bernard O’Dowd wrote 20 years ago:
Apart from the realism of a careful and restrained
observer of Bush life and the Bush itself, Such Is Life
reveals critical and analytical powers of a high order
and the culture of a real man throughout its rich bulk.
The American critic, C. Hartley Grattan, in his
essay A ustralian Literature, says:
Humor and hardship, denunciation and love mingle
in Tom Collins’s Such Is Life,’ ajrite title for a superb
b00k... .He has the same capacity as Herman Melville
lor mingling the most abstruse speculations... .with
veridic glimpses of reality. Such Is Life portrays the
same types as found in Lawson’s While the Billy Boils,
but seen through a tremendously complex mind....ln
spite of his undoubted intellectual superiority Collins
was an aggresssive defender, and the great Australian
philosopher, of the common man. Collins lacked fluidity,
but he had vigor, originality and independence, which
are vastly more important. He was an adventurer of the
mind as well as of the body....and he was a great
writer.
Grattan’s opinion is useful as a measiiring-stick
because the general tenor of his essay reveals no
inclination toward flattering us on our total literary
achievement'.
Such Is Life is set in the Riverina (N.S.W.) in
1883. It is written in the first person and purports
to be the amplifications of certain entries in the diary
of Tom Collins, a travelling minor Government
official. The main plot deals with a girl whose lover
abandoned her after she had suffered a facial dis-
figurement through being thrown from a horse, of the
man’s subsequent life and his remorse, of the girl’s
life masquerading as a man —presumably because she
found disfigurement less of a handicap to a man than
to a woman —and, the reader has reason to suppose,
their ultimate reunion. The plot is melodramatic in
conception but not in treatment. Collins acknowledges
the literary fashions of his time but is not taken in by
them. It is the same when he exploits the humor of
the day.
On the secondary plot, concerning his relation-
ship with a husband-hunting station housekeeper, Mrs.
Beaudesart, he throws a farcical light, but this has the
saving grace of verisimilitude. He lives with his times
when he tells of his adventures during a night and a
day when he was without clothes and had to wander
naked through bush and settlement. Trousers were
not then named in mixed company. He refers to them
as his “unmentionables,” and even then with profuse
apologies. He works the absurdities of the situation
for all they are worth, but everything that happens and
all whom he meets are presented with “veridic glimpses
of reality.” It is a reminder that already we have
literature which must be read in its period, while the
interior treatment of the book reminds us that a work
may be of a period and of all time.
The plots of Such Is Life are not plainly set forth.
The plan of an expanded diary does not permit of it.
We meet Collins first in a bullock-drivers camp, yarn-
ing. One of the men, apropos of an anecdote told by
mother, tells with feeling the history of his sister
Molly up to the time of her being abandoned by a
lover. He believes her to be dead, and adds that he
has since heard that the lover, in his shame, married
a, woman of low character. Later, Collins befriends
a sick bullock-driver, Warrigul Alf, whose morose and
solitary nature are already known to the reader
through an earlier encounter. Alf has had trouble
with a worthless wife. He also has other memories
that distress him, and the reader, if he is alert, catches
a hint that this is Molly’s lover. Months afterwards,
through a conversation between Collins and .a man
at a station homestead, it comes to light that Warrigul
Alf has gone with his team to Queensland.
Later Collins spends a night with an eccentric
boundary-rider, Nosey Alf, whom the reader has been
hearing about for some time. This is a cleverly-written
chapter, and the reader —again, if he is alert—develops
a suspicion that Nosey Alf is a woman in disguise,
and, from his interest in what Collins tells him about
Warrigul Alf, that “he” is Molly. Later again it is
learned through the.remarks of a southward-bound
traveller that Nosey Alf is on the track riding toward
Queensland. As in this, so in the several minor plots,
Collins reports what he and others saw, said and did
—the rest is up to the reader.
Between the points indicated, and in addition to
the matters of Mrs. Beaudesart and the lost clothes,
Collins camps, rides and breaks bread with every kind
of human character, young and old, that went to make
up the population of the Riverina of that day. They
are made as real to the reader as if he were meeting
and talking with them. In each of them there is a
story ; their own as disclosed in word and action, or
their version of someone else’s. Between them they
cover a great number of aspects of life in general
and the bush in particular. Nor are these tales and
incidents mere digressions. Collins is highly skilful
under his pretended artlessness. His plots are in mind
all the time. Each story has its cross-references to
some other. His pages are as webbed with secret'
intention as a leaf is webbed with veins.
The period of Such Is Life followed that of the
gold diggings. The land was locked up, there were no
secondary industries. The poor were many and at
exceptional disadvantage in the struggle of life. It
was one of the periods of dark social hostilities. The
period speaks through the humor, tragedy and romance
of the book.
Nor were Collins’s preoccupations purely local.
A man of wide reading and close thinking, he often
interrupts his tale to discourse on topics such as his-
torv. sociology, moral nhilosonhv. rn.Kic. Sha.ksne.amMn
drama, etc. Not that he is unmindful of his reader.
There is generally an ironic “by your leave” before he
commences and a “bear with me one moment” as he
nears the end. He is aware of himself. It is part of
his humor that he can do this, hold his reader’s
attention, and then pick up the delicate threads of his
story where he laid them down. He makes a bad
habit one of his endearing qualities.
His general character is one of tolerance toward
his fellows and a wholesome view of life in general.
The degree to which he inhabits his books is
remarkable. One frequently says, not “Have you
read Such Is Life or Rigby’s Romance ?” but “Do you
know Tom Collins?” His works are the tabernacle
of his genial and understanding spirit.
The history of his books and their relation to The
Bulletin are set down in A. G. Stephens’s preface
(slightly abridged) to Rigby’s Romance (De Garis ;
1921).
Rigby’s Romance is a juicy quarter of the mammoth
uncovered by Joseph Furphy. “Mammoth” fits Such Is Life,
though the careful author computed: “There are 1125 pages
in this MS-, and, if my calculations be correct, it would
require 1435 of the same to hold Pickwick and 1403 to hold
Romola.” Still, 1125 pages (about 270,000 words) of a close,
clean script
Request for a preface sets me hunting old letters.
Shepparton, April 4, 1897.
Dear Sir, —
Circumstances compel me to solicit a reply of two
or three words only.
I have just finished writing a full-sized novel, title
Such Is Life; scene, Riverina and Northern Victoria;
temper, democratic; bias, offensively Australian.
Now, what publishing firm should I communicate
with—Melbourne preferably, but not necessarily? I am
absolutely in the dark here, and have no other referee.
I am, sir,
Yours very truly,
Joseph Furphy (Tom Collins).
Answer: Send the animal for inspection. Sent: with
another letter. Judgment (May 22, 1897): “Rather long-
winded ; yet Such Is Life is good. It seems to me fit to
become an Australian classic, or semi-classic I think the
book ought to be published and would find a sale.”
But 1125 pages, estimated at 550 pages of solid print,
made an impracticable business proposal. Even in the low-cost
days of 1897 such a book could not be produced without
money loss; and, as manager of The Bulletin’s book
publications, I could not issue it as it lay. Furphy had no
money to spend in aid; the book was returned. Urged to
make it more readable by a publisher, and encouraged by
“Your generous estimate of MS.—an estimate that has taken
me by surprise,” Furphy bought a typewriter and set to work
pounding his masterpiece into more attractive shape. Night
after night he tap-tap-tapped, following mechanical days in
his brother’s Shepparton Implement Works: and by-and-bye
an idea came. *
Such Is Life was complete: He was loth to deform it.
Yet Rigby’s Romance seemed an anabranch of the river,
a story within the slow Murray-meandering story which the
author writes like the small, persistent, casual, methodical
steamer that starts a voyage round about Bourke and with
lapse of time reaches seaport, carrying all kind of freight for
all manner of people, and tying-up at a tree every night (and
occasionally in the daytime) for tea, tucker, tobacco and
philosophical reflections. Furphy could cut out Rigby’s
Romance; and he did.
Back came Such Is Life, typed to a comma, with much
of its woolly fleece shorn. Still it was an “uncommercial
traveller.” Archibald and Macleod were proprietors of The
Bulletin at the time; Archibald smelt the book and didn’t
like it —too long and too slow; Macleod was content to take
Archibald’s opinion. Furphy maintained a gentle and unre-
laxing strain upon the manager of The Bulletin’s book
publications. I prognosticated a tardy sale; but, upon printer’s
estimate, thought we could get the cost back eventually.
Profit was invisible.
Fortunately for Furphy my pressure overpowered Archi-
bald. I argued that The Bulletin called itself the national
Australian newspaper; that here was a national Australian
book, a Bush book, that would be relished and enjoyed now
in the Bush its home, where people have lots of time for
reading and reflection. The Bulletin owed something to the
land that had fostered it; other books were selling well; and
the roundabouts would make up for the swings.
Archibald never liked losing money, and he saw an un-
deniable chance of losing a little; but he yielded to the argu-
ment. Such Is Life was published with an agreement of half-
profits to Furphy. I made it quite dear to him that he was
lucky not to risk half-losses. The predicted slow sale began,
and when I left Bulletin employment two-thirds of the
edition were unsold. Count it to the proprietors for righteous-
ness ....
After stating that Furphy’s parents came from
county Armagh, Ireland, and that he was born in 1843,
at Yerang, on the Yarra, Victoria, two years after they
reached Port Phillip among the celebrated “Argyle
immigrants,” Stephens quotes portion of a letter
received from Furphy:
Under paternal pressure, my ’teens were spent in dodging
out of farm work, and in learning to mismanage various kinds ,
of portable engine plant—threshing, sawing, pumping, chaff- .'
cutting, etc. This was in the neighborhood of Kyneton.
Then I cleared from home, as good Australians do, and
for a couple of years cultivated the art of living on half-a-
crown a week on worn-out goldfields. Next, a few years’
experience of steam thresher and farm —this on my own time-
payment hook. Then four or five years’ occupation of the
worst selection in Rodney brought me back to the heat and
burden of engine work for another couple of years—this time
on wages.
Next I owned, clear of liability, two of the best bullock
teams that ever traded from Hay. For seven or eight years
I followed this adventurous and profane occupation, partly
on the Victorian border, but chiefly in northern Riverina, where
I saw all that was to be seen. Old Man Drought supervened,
impelling me to sell relics of carrying plant and return to Vic-
toria, for the sake of the children. Have since been employed
in Shepparton Implement Works, with an interval of a year
and a half as travelling expert for the Hornsby binder.
A.G.S. continues:
Twenty years of his life passed quietly at Shepparton.
With regular hours of labor he had long evenings for read-
ing: he read good books thoroughly, and at length he wrote
— he wrote at length—verses for The Bulletin, short essays
of fiction describing deeds “recollected in tranquillity”; then
Such Is Life....lt is a microcosm of the Australia he knew,
written by a humorous priestly rationalist with observant eyes,
intuitive sympathy and a cool, ironic mind.
Furphy came late and lonely to scholarship. Deliberate
study of English classics emphasised rather than extended his
individuality: he drew from books affirmation of his knowledge
of life. With dictionary and synonyms-book and a shelf of
eighteenth-century authors he labored at language for the
dignity of literature; producing a ponderous style, heavy with
words displayed punctiliously, too many words. In the ver-
nacular he is himself, he shines
In 1905-06 Rigby’s Romance was published serially in
“Barrier Truth,” a weekly newspaper published at Broken
Hill (N.S.W.). R. S. Ross, editor at the time, writes:
“Furphy presented the manuscript to the miners of the Bar-
rier, through their paper, in admiration of their stalwart
western character and spirit.” It was recovered for book
publication from old files by Ross’s co-operation with Kate
Baker, Furphy’s gallant standard-bearer
Furphy came to Sydney while Such Is Life was publish-
ing: a lean, shrewd, proud, modest, kindly man of 60. Some
years later the Shepparton Implement Works uprooted them-
selves and removed to Fremantle (W.A.). Furphy went along.
He died in the West in 1912, a few days before completing his
69th year. I have recalled his ghost to read what I have
written....
The following remarks, extracted from Vance
Palmer’s preface to the second edition of Such Is Life,
Melbourne, 1917, embody the general reasons why
interest in the book remains.
This book has firmly established itself in those courts
where literary values are not measured in terms of circula-
tion The people who care passionately for literature are,
in any country, small in number, yet any achievement of value
is in their keeping It is the business of the critic, profes-
sional and unprofessional, to select such works as are of
permanent value and help to keep them alive....ln Australia
our literary achievement is so small that we must guard it
jealously The value of Such Is Life lies in the extraordinary
richness of its philosophy and characterisation, the vitality of
its style and the whimsical humor with which it is saturated
If sincerity remains a virtue and the Australian of the future
has any interest in his spiritual origins or pride in his literary
pioneers, Joseph Furphy’s name will be remembered.
FRAND DALBY DAVISON.
"Such Is Life. "
Writing to the publishers of the new edition
of Such Is Life, I said: “I am pleased with the
book’s format—its paper., the printing, the binding ;
the editor has certainly kept the continuity of the
story, and has written a plain, unvarnished tale that
will no doubt be pleasing to the British public ; but
it is not Joseph Furphy’s Such Is Life
Not a vestige of the ironic bias, “offensively Aus-
tralian,” remains.
Joseph Furphy has been at various times accused
of irreverence, of ungodliness, of blasphemy and other
heinous offences ; yet never anywhere has any writer
more fearlessly attacked the abuses of our soi-disant
Christian civilisation. His “terrible pen” pillories
every form of cant, hypocrisy and sycophancy. He
insists on the brotherhood of man. He is the cham-
pion of the outcast and the derelict. But his inspired
passage on p. 86 of the original, and pages of some
of the deepest philosophy ever penned, as well as the
noble passage on music (pp. 254-255) —a description
of music and its effect unsurpassed in anything I
have read —have been cut as though they had never
been written. Ah, well, such is life!
Incidentally (p. 322, new edition —“So you like
music?” has not the meaning of the original, “Do
you like music?”
The substitution of the stark terms “bloody,”
“hell,” “lousy” for the cryptic (adj.) is a grievous
offence. The editor seems to have overlooked the
fact that “Tom Collins” wrote in the late Victorian
period—an age of such an affectation of refinement
that the mention of one’s “leg” was regarded as an
impropriety. Joseph Furphy whimsically satirises this
ultra-refinement with his humorous affectation of
reluctance to sully his pages, or to shock the fastidious
taste of the “gentle reader” by recording the rude
{Continued on page 8.)


‘TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”—and in every act.
‘THE SENIOR STORE.”
REDUCTIONS ON BENTALL’S RELIABLE FARM EQUIPMENT
ANTHONY HORDERNS'
Half Yearly Genuine
TOMORROW
V
/
6
£l5/15'- C.D.V. CHAFF CUTTER
At left: —
Chaff Cutter, E. H. Bentall & Co. C.D.V.
Rising mouth, Biin. wide, cuts two lengths,
iin. and ; weight, 3 cwt. Price, £l5/15/-.
SALE PRICE £l4/17/6
Capacity, 6 cwts. per hour.
£29|17[6 Bentall’s CHAFF CUTTER
At right:
Chaff Cutter, E. H. Bentall & Co. C.S.H. Rising
mouth, 1 Oin. wide, cuts three lengths; 3rl6in.,
and 13-16 in. Fitted with safety lever for stopping
and reversing motion. Can be worked by hand,
horse power or steam. Price, each .... £29/17/6
SALE PRICE -i £2B/5/-
Capacity, 11 cwts. per hour. Handles extra if required.
£25 Bentall’s Power Grinder, Style “B”
At left:—
Bentall’s Power Grinder, Style “t 5.” 8.H.P., 3% to 7. Pulley
supplied with mill 1 Oin. x Will grind 2001 b. to 8001 b.,
kibble 8001 b. to 13001 b. per hour. Diameter of flat reversible
grinding plates, Bin. The cheapest Power Grinder manufactured.
“All British Made.” Safety Springs protect the Grinding Plates
from foreign substances, stones, etc. Price, each £25
SALE PRICE £24
£lO/107- Bentall’s C.X.B. Chaff Cutters
At right:
Chaff Cutter, E. H. Bentall. & Co. C.X.B. Rising mouth.
7£in. wide, cuts two lengths, iin. and |in. Weight, 2
cwt. Price £lO/10/-
SALE PRICE . £9/17/6
Capacity, 5 cwts. per hour.
Use the Deposit - Purchase System if More Convenient
/
£l3/10/- BENTALL’S
No. 5 GRINDING OR
KIBBLING MILL
£l3
The “Bentall” No. 5 Grinding or
Kibbling Mill (for power) has patent
flexible self-adjusting grinding plates.
Will grind wheat at 2041 b. to 3001 b.
per hour; maize at 1601 b. to 2801 b.
per hour; and will kibble 4001 b. per
hour. Price, each £l3/10/-
SALE PRICE £l3
£7/2/6 BENTALL'S
C.P.L. MODEL
CHAFF CUTTER
£6124
The Bent a 1 1 Chaff
Cutter, in. mouth, cuts
and ; C.P.L. with
three legs. Price, £7/2/6.
SALE PRICE, £6/12/6.
fri.lJiMi
m
CATAtiocoe
’Phone or
Write for
128-p age Illustrated
Catalogue of hundreds
and hundreds of lines
reduced during our
Genuine Half Yearly
Sale. Illustrations help
to make your selection
easier and reduced prices
are clearly shown. For
better bargains ORDER
NOW!
Agricultural Department—Fourth
Floor. Free delivery city and suburbs
only.
UHI
m
m
£5/5/- BENTALL'S
GRINDING MILL.
NOW
tAni
Grinding Mill, fitted with patent
flexible grinding plates. Will
grind to a fine meal or kibble
all kinds of grain, coffee, oyster
shells, dog biscuits, oilcake, etc.
701 b. Price £5/5/-
SALE PRICE £4/17/6
£9 BENTALL'S No. 4
GRINDING MILL.
NOW AT
£B'io-
No. 4 Grinding Mill, with
increasing motion, flywheel
and handles for two men.
Price each £9
SALE PRICE . . £B/10/-
ANTHONY HORDERN and SONS LTD., SYDNEY


By the Author of "No Escape”
Bernie M. Curley's KINK
BY VELIA ERCOLE
ILLUSTRATED BY LOCK.
BERNIE McCURLEY bought Sullivan’s place
for a song. We had had a run of bad seasons,
prices were low and looked like falling lower ;
and, anyhow, you’d have said those few
hundred acres of land which tongued into the moun-
tain would have been good to no one except me.
Then McCurley came along and seemed quite con-
tented with his scrap of rough country and few
worked-out paddocks. Not that he had any illusions
about it. He knew exactly what he had bought.
When he told Twigg, the agent, to find him a
likely mob of sheep he admitted that as far as grass
went the place was bare as a board. But he said
also (with that look in his eyes which we were
all to learn and to put down to his kink) that the
drought would break within a fortnight. He felt it
in his bones, he said.
Twigg had no more faith in Bernie McCurley’s
bones that he had in any other weather prophets, but
his business was to sell sheep if he could, so he took
down notes while Bernie calculated just how long
after the rains he would take delivery of the sheep.
He gave an exact date, and later on in the pub
(it was Saturday afternoon) Twigg said that Bernie
was a decent little cove. But bats. One of these
weather prophets.
But ten days after this the rains came, and it
rained for a fortnight.
“What’s your system?” I asked Bernie, but he
only grinned.
We had become friends quickly. It was a relief
to have as neighbor, instead of Sullivan, who was
always grousing and never getting anywhere, this
cheerful little chap who was so contented with his
land and his work.
DUT Bernie was not contented with the tuinble-
' down shanty where the Sullivans had sprawled
and starved. I had come upon him standing outside,
staring at the pitiful dwelling, his lashless eyes half-
closed under the down-turned brim of his surprisingly
neat hat.
“This is a dump, all right,” he said, and I agreed,
commenting on what had always seemed to me a
miracle: the fact that eight Sullivans had managed
to house themselves inside it. But Bernie was not
listening to me.
“You couldn’t bring a woman to live here,” he
said suddenly, and I was a bit surprised. He was
well over fifty.
“Thinking of getting married?”
I knew nothing about him beyond the fact that
he had spent most of his life in West Australia, had
been north as far as Darwin, roamed outback, and
could tell the tales that men of his kind can. I’d
taken it for granted he was a bachelor.
“Oh, no,” he said. “Nothing like that.” He
went over and kicked at a post which held the sagging
verandah roof. “That won’t last long.” He was
taking his time about saying what he had to say: “I’ve
been married. My wife died. She was a wonderful
girl.”
I began to make the vague noises one makes
in a situation of this kind, when I happened to look
at him. His rather plain face was lighted by as pure
and unmistakable a happiness as I have ever known,
and the consolatory noises stuck in my throat. It
seemed absurd to condole with a man who looked
like that.
“Wonderful,” he repeated. “It’s her I was think-
ing of when I talked about the house. She’d have a fit
if she saw me in a house like this. She was a real
homemaker. I wish you could have seen our house
the way she had it. Not that we had much money.
But she loved to make a man comfortable and have
things pretty. Waited on me hand and foot. Spoiled
me, of course.”
I thought of something to say. “Well, some
wives are like that. They get all their happiness out
of spoiling a man.”
Bernie took this as a compliment personal to
his dead wife. “That’s it exactly. She was so gay
about it always. Singing, you know. And smiling,
no matter what she did, how hard she
worked. She’d be at it all day, yet when
I came home in the evening she’d be
dressed, looking so pretty, and come
fussing round me. Made me feel like a
sultan with his” He paused. “I
don’t mean harem,” he said, looking at
me to help.
“With his favorite slave,” I grinned,
but Bernie took the word up with eager
seriousness.
“Yes, that’s right. She had a soft
nature like one of those Eastern women.
But capable. You should have tasted
some of her cooking. Do you know, I’ve
known her have the meal all prepared,
and because I wasn’t hungry or didn’t
fancy it she’d get up and go and make one of my
favorite dishes.”
I treated this with the respect it deserved. I’m
married myself, but my wife is only human.
“So you see how it is,” Bernie said, almost
apologetically. “I feel I’d be making her happy by
living the way she’d want. Of course it will take
time to get the place the way she would like it.”
HAT was the first time he talked to me about
1 his wife, but as the months passed and the years
I grew to know her as well as I know my own wife.
In fact, there were times when I wished I had known
her better than my own. I’m happily married, I
suppose. But my wife hasn’t a nature like those
Eastern women.
All the men in the valley knew about McCurley’s
wife by this time, and we realised that where she was
concerned he had a kink. But it was a harmless
one, and kept him happy. Gave him a reason for
living and doing things, set him a standard. He
prospered, too. He was one of the best farmers I
have ever known. Of course, on that bit of land
he couldn’t grow rich, but he was very comfortable
after a few years, and his house, though small, was
one of the prettiest and the best equipped in the
district. He had good furniture, a wireless set, a
refrigerator—all the latest gadgets.
“My wife would have made me buy one,” he
said the day he showed me the refrigerator. “She
always liked me to have my beer cold. She’d wrap
it in wet bags. They
didn’t have these things
when she was alive.”
He used to go to
the pictures regularly and
have small parties at his
house. He said his wife
always thought outings
were good for him, and
she had always insisted
that he have evenings
with his men friends.
Real stag parties, when
she would prepare
supper, then go to bed
early and lie awake with
a book, happy to hear
the men enjoying them-
selves.
When I told my wife
this she said she didn’t
believe it; that she didn’t
believe half the things
Bernie said, and that
probably if she died I’d
go around saying how
wonderful she was,
whereas now it was
nothing but insults. I
told her to try it and
see.
| SUPPOSE he did
* exaggerate a bit. He
had a lame sheep there
that he had fixed up with
a wooden leg—l’ve never
seen a man more tender
with animals. His wife
had been an animal-
lover, he said, and they
had no end of pets —and
he called the sheep Ger-
trude. I asked him why
Gertrude, and he said
that was his wife’s name,
and the animal, so docile
and gentle, reminded him
of his wife.
That’s what I mean
about the exaggeration.
If his wife had really looked like
that lame sheep he wouldn’t have
wanted to be reminded of her.
But he said she was the loveliest
girl, with soft, fair hair and gentle
blue eyes. “A little thing,” he
was fond of saying, “as high as
my heart.” That was another
exaggeration. Bernie was only a
little chap himself, and to be as
high as his heart Gertrude should
have been a dwarf.
But we made allowances,
we men, for this sort of thing,
and there wasn’t one of us who didn’t envy
Bernie his wife, alive and dead. Because she was
as good dead as alive to him. Towards the end I
think he really imagined she was there. The kink
was strong in those last months. He was happier
than in the early years, if that were possible, lived
better, prospered exceedingly. When he died as
he did so suddenly I felt I had lost not one but two
friends. I remember I came back to my wife and
said: “Well, we’ve lost the McCurleys.”
She got me a whisky, and for once had the sense
to say nothing. I felt pretty bad about Bernie. It’s
not often you meet a man like that, so gentle, so
kind, so filled with happiness that he is able to spill
some of it over on to others.
A S I’d known him best I helped McKinley, the
** solicitor, do what had to be done ; but we soon
found ourselves up against a wall. So far as we
knew Bernie had no relatives at all. He had died
without making a will. No one came forward ; we
knew nobody who should be informed ; and there
was that small but splendidly-improved little property,
without a penny of mortgage, going begging. I was
ready to buy the place if there had been anyone to
buy it from.
But after a while McKinley’s newspaper notices
had results. 1 was out of the affair by this time, but
I suppose McKinley thought I should be told. Any-
how he telephoned me and asked me could I come
into his office, that a woman who said she was Bernie
McCurley’s wife had turned up. “And what a
woman! ” he said. But that didn’t prepare me for the
terrible Mrs. McCurley.
Oh, she was his wife right enough! She had
undoubted proof of that. She was the largest and
quite the most unpleasant female I have ever encoun-
tered. Flashily dressed, she sat square and solid in
McKinley’s drowsy office, and her harsh voice
wrecked and rolled and flattened poor Bernie’s deli-
cate fabrications.
He had deserted her, she said, after years of
slaving for him. The little toad had given her nothing,
taken her nowhere, made her dress like a ragbag.
Kept her stuck out in the bush while her two sisters,
married to hotelkeepers, lived the decent life a
woman had a right to expect, and that she herself
would have lived if she had known in time the kind
of swine Bernie was. And he littering up the
(i Continued on next page.)
“She was so gay about it Singing And smiling, no matter what she did."


house with dogs and cats and damn’ birds, and pay-
ing more attention to them than to her.
Her small eyes gleamed with malevolence, her
purplish lips were curved with hate. “And him with
all his talk of ideals when we were first married!
Saying all he wanted was to love and cherish me
and I’d do the same by him, and that was real
marriage. An’ when he saw that I wasn’t going to
stand being stuck out in the bush the way no decent
woman would stand it, he promised everything and did
nothing. I can hear him now with his whine, ‘All
right, Gertrude dear, if you aren’t happy, soon’s I
can afford it we’ll go to the city.’ But never doing
anything about it. Oh, no. Lies, that was all. A
born liar.”
McKinley plucked up courage at last and said,
“Well, there are the papers. Everything in order
for you to go through, Mrs. McCurley.”
Mrs. McCurley said something about lawyers
and swindlers and “my friend, Mr. Herbert.”
Her friend Mr. Herbert was waiting outside.
He came in when she roared for him, a little mouse
of a man, utterly depressed. Apparently he was there-
for the entirely superfluous function of “watching
Mrs. McCurley’s interests,” and I suspected that he
was doomed to do this for the rest of his life.
McKinley took him over to the desk, and he
played his part with nervous words and a twitch
in his left cheek which got on my nerves, while I
was made the recipient of more of Mrs. McCurley’s
confidences.
I don’t remember them all, but I do remember
the concluding one. “But he didn’t have it all his
own way,” she said. “I’ve got the satisfaction of
knowing I marked him. It’s not much, but it’s some-
thing. In self-defence it was, of course. The doctor
said as he’d carry the scar to his dying day.”
She added with sudden apprehension, a quick
turn of her great body, as if she were to be balked
of her prey: “I s’pose you’d have noticed a scar
he had on his head? I never saw it. He got awa}
soon’s he came out of hospital. Left without waiting
even to tell me he was clearing out.
“There was no scar. If there had been I d have
seen it,” I said, and stalked out of the office. The
lie (because the scar was there, a livid welt acioss
Bernie’s forehead, which perhaps explained things;
a man would never be quite right in the head after
a crack like that) was a small thing to do lor old
Bernie, but I could thwart the woman of some or
her triumph.
. .
| SAT on the verandah that night thinking about the
* hell that poor little chap must have endured. He
with his “ideals” and his sensitive, loving nature. But
after a while I gave up being sorry for him. When
all’s said, he was the most happily married man I ve
ever known, living with his imaginary Gertrude,
tended and loved by the dream-wile whose ghostly
fingers animated his own.
Made Anger His Hobby
RAGE
BY H.C. McKAY
HANNAKER slammed
the front door and
strode out into the
street. Anger coursed
through his system like a
maddened shark round an
aquarium tank. He was
enjoying every moment of it.
He bumped an elderly
woman at the corner and
turned on her a look that
shrivelled protest like a blast
from a blowlamp. He
elbowed fellow - travellers
boarding the ferry, jambed
himself into a small space
between two annoyed passen-
gers on the deck and argued
the matter in a bass roar till
the city was reached. It was
one of his finest rages for
years.
For most individuals
anger is a regrettable emotion
that occasionally outleaps
control; but Hannaker de-
liberately encouraged and
cultivated it. He knew—and
fostered —every variant. It
was his hobby.
He reached his office
simmering comfortably. He
strode through it growling at
his terrified staff and sank
into his desk-chair with a
well-pleased curse. This was
a Marathon fury ; it looked
like lasting. What a day he
would have! What a day!
Unannounced, a long,
lean person followed him into
his sanctum and took a chair
beside the desk.
“What the devil ”
shouted Hannaker, springing
to his feet.
“I followed you in,”
mildly explained the visitor.
“And what in the name
of hellfire do you want?”
roared Hannaker.
“You.”
Hannaker stared, speechless. The other passed
him a card. Hannaker read “Max Planx, M.D.,
M.R.C.S.E. Specialist. Autonomic Nervous System
and Suprarenal Glands.”
“I watched you on the boat; I followed you
here,” explained Planx. “Your rage attracted me.
The emotion —you may not know it—is controlled by
the suprarenals, two small endocrine glands seated
athwart the kidneys. Study of these glands happens
to be my hobby. Normal rage is a sign of normal
glands. A superabundant anger means enlargement,
or maybe a tumor. Probably you have both.
“I propose to operate upon you, remove a portion
of one or both suprarenals, and so restore you to the
calm, self-complacent deportment which is the norm
for the ordinary businessman.”
“Leave —this —office!” roared Hannaker, half-
choked with rage.
“I am going,” said Planx, rising. “But first I’ll
tell you this. The suprarenals also govern blood-
pressure. Unless you’re operated on you’ll be dead
in two years. Good morning. Think it over.”
L_j ANNAKER thought it over. He was still think-
-1 1 ing it over as he lay on the operating-table in
Planx’s private hospital. He had stormed into a
specialist’s consulting-room the day following Planx’s
visit, and there learned that his blood-pressure was
up to 240 and a “stroke” impending any minute. As
a forlorn hope the specialist recommended the Planx
operation. And so to Planx he went.
“Remove one suprarenal, cut across the splanchnic
nerves,” said Planx; “a chancy and dangerous ‘op.’ ”
The mask was fitted, the ether came on. Han-
naker had one magnificent shock of fury at the smell
and taste of the stuff ; then an increasing roar in his
ears, bringing oblivion.
For a few days after the operation he lay in the
customary weakened state, void of personality, an
automaton that was washed, shifted about, inspected,
hand-fed with mush and water and given occasional
hypodermic stabs. Then slowly the Hannaker identity
returned to the recumbent body.
His first reaction was a depressing sense of loss.
The whole background of his character, the vivid
urge of simmering fury that had been his mainstay
through life, had been swept out of existence. The
nurses found that Hannaker had become the ideal
patient.
The day he left the hospital Planx told him he
was a most remarkable case and wanted to go into
details, but Hannaker was apathetic. He could not
be bothered with the subject further. He felt like a
patient whose right arm has been amputated and who
shrinks from the grisly glee of the surgeon over a
good job. Planx had lopped off his anger like a
limb; a regrettable but necessary step; that was
enough. Now he had to discover what kind of a
crutch mild placidity was to lean upon for life.
HE soon found out. Shorn of his fury, Hannaker
was a mere human cipher. The man’s whole
personality had revolved round the cyclonic emotion
that formerly ruled his existence. His drive was gone ;
his business fell away; his
staff cheated, sneered at and
constantly imposed upon him.
A rival wheedled him into a
partnership, gathered the
reins of the business, and
slowly but surely began to
elbow Hannaker out of it.
His wife, who had at
first hailed the change with
enthusiasm, gradually became
irritated at the passionless
complacency of the man. She
eventually cleared out with a
swarthy advertising agent
renowned for his quick
temper.
By this time Hannaker
had become a mere employee
in his own firm. He was
practically useless. The board
meeting that agreed to his
dismissal wasted no more
than a few minutes over him
and-passed on to more im-
portant matters.
On a miserably grey
autumn day a miserably grey
Hannaker went to see Planx.
“Grafting glands is no
impossibility to - day,” he
argued. “Voronoff and others
have done it. Surely you can
do it. I don’t care a two-
penny dash” —he cracked his
fingers feebly—“even if my
blood-pressure goes up to
three hundred. I want to be
the old Hannaker —the Han-
naker that raged and got
things done. You must re-
graft me. Give me back my
glands! ”
“ That,” said Planx
suavely, “is impossible.”
“But why? But why?”
“Because of the state of
your body after my last
operation.”
“What is that?” quavered
Hannaker.
Planx told him.
The surgeon had expected the reaction, but not
so quickly. As Hannaker sprang up, shouting, his
eyeballs protruding, his face purple, Planx leapt for
the door.
Nurses and patients crowding into the room found
every breakable object smashed and Planx lying in
the wreckage of broken glass and furniture with two
black eyes and a fractured jaw.
Through them and out to the street stormed the
raging object that was now Hannaker. He stormed
his way from the street to his home, from his home
to small business, from small to big business, from
big business to mergers. His energy was insatiable,
his fury unopposable, his success phenomenal. Within
two years his blood-pressure was 260, his assets half
a million —and he lay dying of apoplexy.
At his club the specialist last attending him ran
across the lean and cynical Max Planx, M.R.C.S.E.
“I’ve just left Hannaker,” he said. “Not much of
an ad. for the Planx Resection, is he? You fixed him
—and he’s a fatal high-blood-pressure within two
years.”
“I didn’t operate,” replied Planx.
“But we all understood”
“He was on the table, nicely ‘under,’ when his
heart stopped. Must have been a good two minutes
before I got it going again with a jab of adrenalin
in the heart-wall. I wouldn’t risk it further. We just
closed him up and returned him to the ward.”
“But the man’s slow circulation, his complete
change of character”
“Autosuggestion—nothing else. He believed the
job completed ; he believed himself rage-free. Sub-
consciously he became so —till I told him the truth
and broke the spell.”


Re-enter Mrs. Parsley
THE NURSERY HANDICAP
BY HAROLD MERCER
| exclaimed Mrs. Parsley. “I’ve no
patience with such notions. As if having
babies is not quite the right thing, and
what God made mothers for.”
Mrs. Parsley, lingering about my room on the
pretence of dusting it, had been fencing for an oppor-
tunity to exercise her boasted “conversational
debility.” Equally I had pretended to be busy writ-
ing ; but when she made an inquiry concerning a
staring headline on the paper lying on my table I
had replied. Mrs. Parsley’s genius for mistranslation
did the rest.
“Not that it should be treated with brevity,” said
Mrs. Parsley. “Treating children being born as if
it was a horserace is not all that it should be. Yet,
after all, that is the way the veritable adenoids was
born.”
Mrs. Parsley’s queer word-mangling frequently
puzzles me. The “veritable adenoids” was a complete
surprise, causing me to suspend my pretence of writ-
ing and look up. That was Mrs. Parsley’s oppor-
tunity ; she came to an anchor facing me.
“Didn’t I tell you about the Keeleys, the people
who had No. 7?” she asked. “Very respectable
people they were, who always paid their rent, with
a daughter Nora, who was an apple in the eye with
them. But, for all their love for her, I don’t suppose
they’d ever have let Nora marry young Harry Martin
only for Rich Uncle George.
“Even then,” said Mrs. Parsley, “I didn’t know
it was a horserace.”
“A horserace, Mrs. Parsley!” I exclaimed.
“I didn’t know, not until Rich Uncle George
spoke to me one day. He had come up to see them ;
but they were all out.
“ ‘I suppose, Mrs, Parsley,’ he said, ‘you know all
about the Nursery Handicap? You’re interested,
aren’t you? The Nursery Handicap, nine starters;
first past the post with a bouncing baby boy the
winner. Prize, Rich Uncle George’s money. Are
you having a little bit on Nora, Mrs. Parsley?’
“To me it seemed a little coarse; but you can’t
make a silk purse out of a pig’s trotter; and Uncle
George, even if he was rich, was a rough diadem.
He had callous hands, as if he had done plenty of
hard work, which, heaven knows, there is no shame in.
“Y OU see > Uncle George, when he came back,
4 spending money like a prodigal son who wastes
his money on righteous living, had been discontented
about there being no great-nephews for him to take
to circuses, and so on. Uncle George, who was Mrs.
Keeley’s brother, had run away when he was a boy
and been forgotten until he returned like a regular
Crisis. He mentioned it to me one day even.
“ ‘lt’s a disgrace, Mrs. Parsley,’ he said. ‘My
mother had nine children, but all her daughters and
daughters-in-law have been dodging it; and now
there’s only three great-nieces to show me. And
the Keeleys here won’t let Nora marry because this
young Martin hasn’t much money and spends what
he has. I like him. But the trouble with the family
is that they’re child-mean. They’re afraid of expense.’
“ ‘Well, you’ve saved some money yourself, Mr.
Tipper,’ I says.
“ ‘Not by scraping every threepence, Mrs.
Parsley,’ he says with a laugh. ‘I haven’t got
the family money-hunger.’
“It was a little time after that that Mrs.
Keeley came to me very excited, and told me
that Rich Uncle George was going to leave his
money to the first great-nephew that was born in the
family. It wasn’t long before Nora was married to
young Harry Martin. As far as her parents were
concerned it was the greed of gold which is the route
to all evil that was the reason; but Nora looked very
happy; and when they came back from the honey-
moon they had a separate flat here—No. 8.
“But, you see, Nora wasn’t the only one. She
had a lot of cousins who hadn’t worried much about
having children until they saw a profit in it. Nora
might ’ave got a good start, so to speak, if Mrs.
Keeley ’ad not been so auspicious about matters. You
see, Uncle George didn’t say much about his money,
and Mrs. Keeley wanted to be sure. She even asked
me if Uncle George, who used to talk to me often,
had ever mentioned exactly how much money he
had, which he hadn’t.
“Then she must go to the members of the family
talking about it. They all cornered him one day.
“ ‘I said I would leave my money to my first
great-nephew, and 1 stick to that.’ That was what
Mrs. Keeley told me Uncle George had said. I sup-
pose Mrs. Keeley decided that nothing venture and
not be had was right, for Nora got married at once.
“Nora only laughed when I told her one day that
I hoped her baby would get Rich Uncle George’s
money.
“ ‘Oh, I’m not worrying about that, Mrs. Pars-
ley,’ she said. ‘I don’t suppose there’s any chance ;
there are a few other babies will be born before
mine. I’m happy in being married.’
“Mrs. Keeley used to talk to me about them
other babies.
“ ‘Alice’s baby is going to be a girl; so is Helen’s.
Nora’s will be a boy. I can always tell,’ she’d say
to me, speaking as if she was a regular coracle. I
couldn’t see that she should poise as an authority,
having had only one child ’erself. But some women
are like that; an’ it seemed to comfort ’er to say it
as time went on.
41 CD UT I didn’t know it was a horserace until
*—' Uncle George spoke in that way.
“ ‘They’re coming up the straight now,’ said
Uncle George; ‘an’ it’s going to be an exciting finish.
I’d like to see Nora win myself.’
“ ‘So would I,’ I says. ‘And, Mr. Tipper, you
could have arranged it that way if you had liked.’
“He laughed. ‘So I could, Mrs. Parsley, but I
didn’t think of it at the time. I don’t suppose Nora
really cares now she has that husband of hers! ’
“ ‘All the more reason why she deserves to win,
having no mercery object,’ I says.
“ ‘Well, have a couple of bob on her just to show
your sympathy,’ said Uncle George, laughing.
“Believe it or believe it not, you could bet about
it. Somehow it had got about —I don’t know how,
not being a woman to talk about my tenants —and
everybody was interested in the Nursery Handicap,
as Uncle George called it.
“Mr. Wortley, who was our s.p. man then, was
Willing to take bets about it. He was a most
respected man, and even religious. He gave me five
to one, which wasn’t very encouraging when I wanted
Nora to win.
“I got quite used to people calling it the Nursery
Handicap. They called it that when they dropped
in to hear if there was any news. There was no doubt
about the excitement. Mrs. Keeley felt a strain. She
grew quite snappy.
DRAWINGS BY ARIA.
“But the first news we got was good. Cousin
Agnes, married to one of the Tipper men, ’ad er
baby, which was a girl. The news came unexpected :
an’ I expected Mrs. Keeley to be glad. But she was
quite snappy, because No. 11 had fallen up the stairs
the night before, when he came home drunk, an’ she
said she had not been able to get a wink of sleep
after he had disturbed her.
“Nora, who was a dear girl, came to my kitchen
to apologise. ‘You must excuse mother,’ she says.
‘She’s a little upset.’
“‘Anything gone wrong, Mrs. Martin?’ I asks.
“She laughed as if she didn’t care about any-
thing. ‘My cousin Helen has gone to the Women’s
Hospital,’ she said; ‘and at my cousin Alice’s the
nurse has been called in. Mother will worry over
this silly business.’
“The news got round ; I don’t know how. Of
course I answered people when they asked me ques-
tions. It was surprising the excitement in the whole
neighborhood. That poor Mr. Keeley suffered ; his
wife seemed snapping at him all day, and she made
him go on ringing up on the telephone. I was a bit
worked up myself, especially after Mr. Wortley had
come and said I could have ten to one Nora if
I wanted another bet. Mr. Punter, who had No. 17,
took an even pound Alice.
“The evening came with no definite news, which
may be good news, as the saying is, but didn’t relieve
the tension. I met Uncle George coming down the
stairs. ‘1 seem to have started something, Mrs. Pars-
ley,’ he said.
‘ ‘You have that, Mr. Tipper,’ I says; ‘and it
looks as if I’m going to lose four shillings over it.’
“ ‘Never say die,’ he laughed.
<& 1 HEARD poor Mr. Keeley at the telephone all
1 through the night; an’ once I got up, thinking
it might be somebody else.
“ ‘l’m fed up, Mrs. Parsley,’ he said. ‘The missus
wants me to ring up every five minutes. It’s going
“Believe it or not, you could bet about it”


to become worse. Why, there’s May, Hilda, Joy and
Ellen before Nora. I won’t be able to stand up to it
if it goes on.’
“His shout early in the morning woke the whole
building, I think. Most of the flat doors opened so
that the people could listen-in ; you see, everybody
in the place had a bet of some sort on it. Helen’s
baby was a girl, it seemed. Mrs. Keeley was so
excited that she came down to see me.
“ ‘Didn’t I say it would be a girl?’ she boasted.
‘I can tell every time. It will be the same with my
niece Alice. Nora’s will be a boy.’
“ ‘Well, then, Mrs.' Keeley, you needn’t worry,’
I says. ‘lf you are satisfied about the others’
“She didn’t appear so easy in her mind when I
said that. An’ that Alice didn’t seem in no hurry
to relieve anxiety; a selfish, inconsiderate woman
that Alice had always seemed to me when she came
to see the Keeleys. She wasn’t the girl to hurry herself
for nobody.
“They say that troubles never come singly; an’
when I came back from the grocer’s a telegram had
just arrived. It was from Mrs. Keeley’s sister Mary
at Bathurst, where Mary’s daughter Joy lived.
“The Keeleys were readin’ the wire when I went
up to their flat.
“‘What would you make of that?’ Mrs. Keeley
asked me.
“The wire ran: ‘Happy event this morning. Both
doing well.’
“ ‘That’s like Mary—she always was a cat,’
snarled Mr. Keeley. ‘lf it had been a boy she’d
have mentioned it, to have a triumph over us. I bet
it’s a girl; but she knows we’d like to know that
definitely, so she won’t say so.’
“That seemed like the wisdom of the serpent,
which must be right, since the Bible says so ; but
Mrs. Keeley was worrying. She sent a wire, reply
paid, but they didn’t answer. Joy worried her even
when the news came that Alice’s baby was a girl.
It wasn’t until the birth announcement was in the
papers that she was satisfied that Nora’s chance was
still good.
“I reckoned that my money didn’t look so bad,
and Mr. Wortley said that if I wanted another bet
on Nora the price was five to one.
“The excitement rose from a simmer again when
a ’phone message said that Hilda had gone into her
private ’orspital.
“When I went up to Mrs. Keeley’s flat she was
enjoying a cry —quite historical she was. Nora was
there trying to comfort her.
“ ‘You shouldn’t work yourself up so much,
mother,’ she says. ‘l’m not worrying. It really
doesn’t matter.’
“‘You shouldn’t say that!’ cried Mrs. Keeley,
quite fierce. ‘lt does matter. But get me a glass of
water, an’ I’ll be all right.’
“I guessed the glass of water was only an excuse.
‘l’m not afraid of Hilda ; hers will be a girl like the
others,’ she tells me. ‘lt’s May and Ellen. I can
always tell, Mrs. Parsley; and they’ll be ahead of
Nora.’
‘ < D UT that’s where she was wrong—with all her
' wisdom about it. About Nora, I mean. Cer-
tainly it gave me a jolt when I heard that May’s father
had rung up to say that the nurse was going to be
called in next day.
“That very night I was wakened by the bustle
an’ disturbance, an’ off Nora went to the ’orspital,
white-faced but smiling. I ’ad time to squeeze ’er
’and before she was put in the taxi.
“ ‘Nothing to fear, dear,’ I says. ‘Them optimistic
nurses know their business, otherwise they wouldn’t
be optimistics.’
“ ‘They’re making a neck-to-neck go for it,’ says
Mr. Wortley, calling in, hardly I was up, in the
morning. ‘lf you want a further interest, Mrs. Pars-
ley, I’ll give you evens.’
“ ’Alf an hour later I wished I had taken him
at his word.
“Mr. Keeley almost ’owled it out when he
answered the ring on the ’phone which ’e was sittin’
on the stairs waitin’ for. ’ls wife ’ad gone to the
’orspital. ‘lt’s a boy!’ he shouted. I didn’t blame
’im for rushin’ out to ’ave a drink, what with the
strain over an’ ’is wife away and everything.
“When Rich Uncle George came he knew the
news already. I told him that the Keeleys were at
the ’orspital. So was young Martin.
“‘I know,’ ’e says. ' ‘l’ve been there. It’s a boy,
and beat May’s by two hours. They’re going to call
it George. I’m glad it’s Nora.’
“Then his voice changed. ‘I want to leave with
you a letter for Nora,’ ’e said, holding out an envelope
to me. You could have knocked me over with the
last feather to fly with ; ’e sounded that final. ‘l’m
going away. I’m glad Nora has her kid. With a
pair of ’andsome parents like that, it ought to be
a veritable adenoids.’ ”
The interpretation of the baffling phrase flashed
to me then. But I was still interested in the prize-
money for the child that was to be a veritable Adonis.
“ ‘l’ve got a job on a boat,’ said Uncle George.
“‘A job! You? Rich Uncle George! ’ I cried
flappergasted, which I am not surprised they use
that phrase, seeing what some flappers are like.
“ ‘Why, yes, of course! ’ laughed Uncle George.
‘l’ve always worked for my living—and spent my
money. A win in the Irish Sweep enabled me to
come back and do the grand amongst my relatives for
a year. That letter holds the cheque which closes my
bank account. A tenner!’
“The way ’e laughed ’e seemed to think it was a
Golden Jest.
“ ‘Poor Nora.’ I started trying to make ’im see
’ow wrong it was. ‘She’ll be disappointed’
“ ‘Not she! I told her all about it long ago.
She’s got her husband out of it; they’d never have
let her marry him. That’s why I’m glad
Nora won. None of the others have a
grouch ; anyway, I’m leaving my money—
what money I have —to my first great-
nephew.’ ”
Mrs. Parsley paused and grabbed her
duster with a firm resolve to make up for
lost time.
“I don’t believe in turning that sort of
thing into a horserace,” she said. “But,
somehow, it seemed fair enough to irie,
especially after Mr. Wortley ’ad paid me up
my thirty-four shillings, which ’e did like a
gentleman.”
GOOD HEALTH
BY G. C. B.
IT’S wonderful ’ow a new fad catches on. No
sooner ’ad Miss Pilkington opened ’er Good
Health ’Otel and Milk Bar than ’arf the wimmen
in town made Good Health their hobby. It was
disgustin’ to see wimmen crowded around that milk
bar gossipin’ when they should ’ave been doin’ their
’ousework ; but when I mentions it to Mrs. Raggles
she turns the conversation around to the time us
men spend in the bar of the Shelterin’ Palm. That’s
the worst of wimmen—they can’t stick to the point,
not unless it ’appens to suit ’em.
“Now that you mentions Miss Pilkington’s place,”
she ses, “you might as well know that we ’ave joined
’er physical-culture classes.”
“Wot’s that?” I ses, sharp. “Wot’s that about
we ?’[
“Me and you,” she ses. “We’re goin’ to the first
class to-morrer evenin’. I bought you a athletic
singlet to-day, and I spent all the afternoon makin’
a athletic set for meself and these for you.” And
she ’olds up a little pair of white pants.
“Emma,” I ses quietly. “I ain’t a snob, but I
’ave my position to think of. Bein’ the town rat-
catcher makes me a well-known figger, a public man,
and if you think I’m goin’ to disgrace my position
gettin’ about in them little pants you’ve made a
bloomer.”
She shut ’er mouth tight, and all through tea
she didn’t say a word ; but when we went to bed she
more than made up for it. I tried snorin’ very loud
and groanin’ in me sleep, but it was no good; and
at last, seein’ ’ow set she was on it, I give in to ’er.
"T HERE was quite a mob at the Good Health ’Otel
* when we got there next evenin’, and a more ridi-
kerlus-lookin’ lot I never want to see. It was enough
to make a man ashamed of ’is sex to see them ’airy-
legged men stalkin’ about like a lot of emus; and
the wimmen, most of ’em in trousers too tight for
’em, was even worse. I didn’t look too bad meself,
’avin’ rather a good figger and nice white skin ; but
when I come in after changin’ they all started gigglin’
at me. Mrs. Raggles said they ’ad good reason, and
made me go back to the dressin’-room and take off
me cap and workin’ boots.
When I come back again Miss Pilkington ’ad
joined ’em. She was a fine figger of a woman, almost
good-lookin’ enough to be a barmaid, and she was
dressed in pretty sky-blue trousers with pink stripes.
Quite took me eye, she did ; and 1 stood lookin’ at
’er, admirin’, till I noticed Mrs. Raggles lookin’ at me.
Well, we starts off bendin’ and stretchin’ for
about an hour. Then we goes ’ome.
I was achin’ all over next mornin’, and by the
end of the week I was too wore out even to talk ;
and every time I thought of them exercises I give a
sigh wot should ’ave melted Mrs. Raggles’s ’eart.
But it was no good ; she kept sayin’ she ’ad never
felt better in ’er life, and gettin’ about the ’ouse
bawlin’ ’appy songs to prove it.
I was so used to ’er ’appy smile at breakfast that
when she come down one mornin’ with the corners
of ’er mouth turned down 1 got alarmed straight
away.
“You’re lookin’ better than ever, Emma,” I ses,
tryin’ to cheer ’er up. “I’m beginnin’ to think this
exercisin’ is a good idea, after all.”
She give me a queer look, but didn’t say nothin’.
“Yes, Emma,” I ses, perseverin’. “I’m feelin’
better meself, too —younger.”
She give me another look and breathed ’eavy.
“And I’m beginnin’ to enjoy them exercises,” I
ses. “I look forward to ’em now.”
“Oh!” she ses. “Do you?”
“Wot’s up, Emma?” I ses, starin’. “Ain’t you
pleased?”
“Pleased!” she ses in a chokin’ voice. ‘‘Pleased!
Listen to me, Ernest Raggles,” she ses, nearly stabbin’
me with ’er fork. “You ain’t never goin’ to them
classes again! ”
“Wot?” I ses.
She didn’t say nothin’ for a while ; just sat there,
gettin’ redder in the face every second.
“ ’Ow would you like me to wear sky-blue
trousers with pink stripes?” she ses at last.
“Why, Emma,” I ses, “you please yourself. Of
course, if you ’ad a figger like Miss”
“That’s enough!” she shouts, jumpin’ up. “Not
another word. No wonder you want to go to them
classes, you—you ’eartless sheik! I know now why
you’ve been sittin’ quiet and sighin’. You’ve been
thinkin’ of Miss Pilkington!”
“Emma!” I ses.
“Yes, you ’ave,” she ses. “Don’t deny it.”
“Wot are you sayin’?” I ses. “’Ow do you
know wot I’ve been thinkin’?”
“Never mind ’ow I know,” she snorts. “I ’ave
my methods.”
And as she walks out and slams the door ’ard
it dawns on me wot ’ad ’appened. It’s a bad ’abit
for a married man, talkin’ in your sleep ; but even
bad ’abits is useful sometimes.


language of the canaille with its “manners none —and
customs beastly.” The artifice gives piquancy and
zest to the reading, sometimes, from its very incon-
gruity.
Contrast the lazy, good-natured “Lis’n to the
adjective liar” with “Lis’n to the bloody liar,” and
“Who the (adj. sheol) are you talking to?” with “Who
the bloody hell are you talking to?” and the artistry
of the original is at once apparent.
I hope the book will sell well in England. I fear
Australian connoisseurs will resent it fiercely.
KATE BAKER.
Dumas and Maoriland.
The boys of Christchurch (M.L.) who ramble
widely over Banks Peninsula’s labyrinth of hills,
valleys and bays are perhaps not aware —I certainly
was not when I was one of them —that one of their
favorite authors, the Three Musketeers Dumas, knew
and had written extensively about their vast play-
ground, though he never set eye or foot upon it. It
might possibly have quickened our devotion to Char-
denal’s maunderings about the pen of the gardener’s
sister had we known that lying embalmed in the pages
of Dumas’s periodical “Le Mousquetaire” was a long
series of articles in which the energetic editor had
revamped the diary of a man who set foot on those
shores 50 years before we were born, when the only
other permanent denizens were cannibalistic Maoris.
That man was Dr. Maynard, surgeon of a French
whaler, who recorded his impressions, it may be
guessed, with considerable liveliness and imagination.
Dumas probably did a lot more than mere sub-
editing to Maynard’s journal, but had the good sense
not to interfere with the doctor’s facts, so that Dr.
McNab, when he came to write a history of Fern-
land’s whaling days, found the pages of “Le Mous-
quetaire” a mine of reliable information. The articles
have now been translated by F. W. Reed (a Maori-
lander who has written extensively about both the
elder and the younger Alexandre Dumas), and pub-
lished by Hutchinson under the title The Whalers.
Johannes Anderson, of the Turnbull Library, con-
tributes an introduction and notes which interpret Dr.
Maynard’s peculiar Maori vocabulary—the doctor
seldom got within coo-ee of Maori proper names,
which perhaps is not surprising.
The whaling incidents with which the “Le Mous-
quetaire” articles are so largely concerned, racily
though they are recounted, cover fairly familiar
ground. It is in Maynard’s peregrinations ashore be-
tween 1837 and 1846 that the main interest for Maori-
landers is centred, and particularly his accounts of
early history, picked up at the time from Maoris and
others who, though they may have been liars, had
witnessed the facts.
Here is the Maori version of the events that led up
to the massacre of the crew of the Jean Bart at the
Chathams, as set down by Maynard:
Some young girls, and even less than young girls,
some poor children whom the islanders sold to the
sailors for a few ragged clothes, a piece of tobacco and
a little biscuit, came to spend the night on board. A
drunken sailor... .eviscerated a little girl of five with a
slash of his knife. All the women then upon the ship
sprang into the sea to gain the shore. Next day not a
native came on board; some terrible vengeance was being
prepared.
The ship was becalmed and could not escape. On
the second day 20 canoes manned by 300 warriors
surrounded the ship. They slaughtered every soul on
board, hauled the ship up on the beach and set fire
to it, and ended the day with a cannibalistic feast.
The French later sent' ships to the Chathams and
burnt several villages in reprisal, taking away with
them captive the chief Eitouna, who soon committed
suicide. From Maynard’s account (which McNab
endorses as being likely to be more accurate than con-
flicting versions) it would appear that the vengeance
taken by the natives was well justified, and Maynard
the humanitarian can see that clearly enough. But
Maynard the patriotic Frenchman declares that with
the blood of the men of the Jean Bart France paid for
Maoriland, afterwards dishonestly stolen by per-
fidious Albion!
Maynard also recounts the equally disgraceful
story (disgraceful to the alleged exponents of civilisa-
tion) of Captain Stewart’s participation in the raid
on Akaroa. Taraboulo, as Maynard calls Te
Rauparaha, after massacring and eating most of the
Ngai Tahu tribe, carried away captive their chief
Maramvai (properly Te Maikaranui), his wife, son and
two daughters. At his son’s request, to save him from
ignominy and disgrace, Maramvai decapitated the lad
with an axe. Taraboulo and his accomplice Stewart
were so shocked at such wickedness that they hung
Maramvai by the jaw from an iron hook suspended
from the ceiling of a cabin, and bore him thus, still
living, to Kapiti.
On the voyage one of his daughters, having dared
to take him in her arms to lessen his sufferings, was so
violently repulsed by an English sailor on guard that she
was killed by falling against a corner of the wainscoting.
Her sisters succumbed under the brutalities of the crew.
The mother flung herself over the bulwarks and was
drowned. On the very day of the arrival at Kapiti,
Maramvai was put to death. Taraboulo opened the
carotid artery, received into both hands the blood
which flowed from it and drank it Then he tore out
his victim’s eyes and swallowed them.
As a relief from these horrors, there are such things
as Maynard’s account of what he heard one early
morning at Port Levy, where he was the guest of
“King Thygarit” (Taikaretu).
Suddenly I listened. What had I just heard at the
edge of the forest? A small bell, the bell of a bird, of
that bird which every night gives the signal for the magic
concert that the plumaged artistes of the austral lands
perform before the rising of the sun. The first to come
and interrupt the silvery ringing of this little bell was
the tui. It flung into the night a fusillade of rapid and
continuous notes like a bouquet of fireworks. This was
the first tenor. Soon came the rosary, told bead by bead,
of the glaucope (kokako), followed by the brilliant
notes of the troupiale (tieke). Next a solo, as though
from a crystal flute, came from the fauvette de tangara
(pio pio). The other birds paused for an instant as
though to listen. Then all together once more resumed,
like an immense choir, each sustaining its part; the
mesange (mohua) embellished the concert with triple
and quadruple - quavers; the pigeon (kereru), with its
flood of low notes; the traquet (korimako), with head as
blue as heaven, a skilled baritone, passing from the
pigeon to the tui, from the bass to the tenor. Finally
the trichoglosse (pipipi), in its turn, scattered its trills
amid this marvellous melody, while the perroquet
trigops (kaka), the cymbal-player of the forest, mingled
its brazen vibrations with the sound of the silver
be 11... .1 listened thus for two hours, then, little by little,
the concert ceased and the tui alone continued to sing..
The sun had set.
Grieg must have heard something like that before he
scored the “Morning Voices” in “Peer Gynt.”
ARTHUR D. WYLIE.
The Case of Edmund Galley.
Some of the tragedies of transportation have had
such attention from historians and commentators that
a considerable bibliography could be compiled from
them —the cases of the Dorsetshire Laborers and the
Scottish Martyrs come readily to the mind —but one
of the most pathetic tales of the system remained
buried and forgotten for over 50 years until recently
resurrected by Richard S. Lambert in The Innocence
of Edmund Galley (Newnes ; 165.).
It is no more than a coincidence that it was the
same Judge Williams, the instrument of injustice in
the Tolpuddle case, who was responsible for sending
Galley to the doom which would have been death but
for the intervention of some unselfish souls who could
not shrug their shoulders in the face of a flagrant
miscarriage of justice.
Yet Galley was to suffer, in body and in mind,
for 43 years before he was vindicated by the highest
Court of Appeal—the House of Commons.
Lambert gathers all the details of the case available
in England in presenting a most moving story, but
from an Australian point of view the story is incom-
plete. There is an opportunity here provided for an
Australian writer to present an epilogue that will
cover the details of Galley’s Australian career.
Briefly the story is this. Edmund Galley and
Thomas Oliver were convicted at Exeter for the n
murder of Jonathan May, which took place on the
night of July 16, 1835. Oliver admitted his guilt and
was executed, but in the court and on the scaffold
declared that Galley was innocent. Galley declared
that he had never been in Devonshire before in his
life, and on the night of the murder was 150
away. But he was a vagrant whose nickname was
Dick Turpin, and a woman had sworn that one of
the murderers was Dick Turpin. Although Galley
did not in any way answer the description she had
given, she identified him and stuck to her story at
the trial. Her motive was to save her lover, who was
at first suspected.
Within a few weeks prior to the trial, English
law provided that murderers must be hanged within
48 hours of sentence, unless respited. An alteration
which required the Judge to fix the date of execution
gave sympathisers in the court, convinced of Galley’s
innocence, the chance to secure a respite, and upon
their representations the sentence was commuted to
transportation for life. Galley arrived at Sydney in
the Parkfield in September, 1839. After seven years
he received a ticket-of-leave, and went to work for
William Howell at Burrowa (N.S.W.). For a time he
set up as a brickmaker in that town, but about 1860
became a farm servant at Illalong.
He never ceased to write protesting his innocence,
and his plea was more than once rejected by the Home
Office. In May, 1877, a letter of Galley’s written
from Binalong was delivered to the son of the soli-
citor who had been in charge of the prosecution at
his trial. It was carried to Thomas Latimer, a press-
man who had taken up Galley’s case 40 years before,
and finally reached the House of Commons, where,
after a debate in which John Bright and Robert Lowe
participated, Galley was pardoned and subsequently
awarded £lOOO as compensation for his wrongs.
The case has some interesting Australian asso-
ciations. The father of “Banjo” Paterson, then manag-
ing Illalong station, signed a testimonial on behalf
of Galley. William S. Friend, a prominent Sydney
merchant, presented Galley’s case to sympathisers in
England ; the keeper of the hotel at which Jonathan
May died was Samuel Cann, an antecedent of John
and George Cann, well known in recent Australian
politics ; and the man accused by Oliver as being his
accomplice in the murder was subsequently trans-
ported for another offence, and went to live in the
same district in N.S.W. as Galley.
Virginia Woolf's New Novel.
Some years ago Virginia Woolf wrote a book
called The Waves in an impressionistic technique.
Now comes The Years (Hogarth Press ; Bs. 6d.), which
is, in a way, a companion volume, though the books’
subject-matters have nothing in common. It is a long,
flowing novel, smooth and impersonal. Reading it
you are conscious of the passing of time —50 years
of time flowing over the Pargiter family.
Virginia Woolf is fond of these impersonal
elements. Time and water have something in com-
mon : both are transparencies ; they are pure media ;
their quality is abstract. She likes to embed her deli-
cately dismembered stories, her exquisite medallions
of life, her accurate cross-sections of minds in some
such medium, impersonal and eternal.
The Pargiters are upper-middle-class people:
Colonel Pargiter; his invalid wife; his children ; his
brother, Sir Digby; his cousin, Dr. Malone, at
Oxford ; and the interlacing generations, with glimpses
of their friends and neighbors and chance people who
cross their paths. It is a family like the Forsytes, but
no book could be more different from the Forsyte
Saga in quality and method. These lives are portrayed
in snatches, episodes and pictures, all clear but
unrelated. They form a whole, but not a sequence.
It is life at a remove, unedited. Each picture has the
ring of truth, but it does not lead to anything else.
The whole book is made up of descriptions —domestic
interiors, Oxford in the rain, a deathbed, a party, an
old servant’s retirement, vignettes of London, a train
journey, a little shop, the death of a dog, a committee
meeting, a child’s dream, a boy studying:
He turned to this book; then that book. Then he leant
back to see, with his eyes shut. He must let nothing
dwindle off into vagueness. The clocks began striking.
The lines that had graved themselves on his face
slackened; he leaned back; his muscles relaxed; he
looked up from his books into the dimness. He felt as
if he had thrown himself down on the turf after running
a race. But for a moment it seemed to him that he was
still running; his mind went on without the book. It
travelled by itself without impediments through a world
of pure meaning; but gradually it lost its meaning. The
books stood out on the wall: he saw the cream-colored
panels; a bunch of poppies in a blue vase. The last of
the strokes had sounded. He gave a sigh and rose from
the table.
The weakness of this method of narration is its
monotony. Each picture is as good as the last and
in exactly the same way. You are enchanted with
the delicacy and accuracy of it, the happy phrasing
—’“a belated bell that went walloping like a slow
porpoise through the thick drizzling air,” or Eleanor
reading Dante, “The words did not give out their full
meaning, but seemed to hold something furled up in
the hard shell of the archaic Italian”—the period
touches, a don’s wife “working a design of birds
pecking at fruit copied from a tomb at Ravenna” ;
but it is so level, and after a time the mind tires and
cannot appreciate it.
There is something a little strange and inhuman
about the book. It seems to be this: Virginia Woolf
does not select an aspect of life —it is the whole that
interests her; one phase is of the same value as
another ; all are presented with equal insight and equal
detachment. Her books fail, on purpose, to sculpture
into any expected form.
New Worlds for Middle-aged Men.
It is a rare week that does not bring to the desk
of a full-time fiction-taster at least two new novels
which have a great deal in common, in plot, theme,
characterisation, location or style, W. S. Howard’s
Ah, There, Ffyshe! (Angus and Robertson ; 65.) and
Guy Pocock’s Stubbs at Fifty (Dent; 7s. 6d.) offer
a case in point.
Howard is a well-known Sydney journalist with
a couple of rollicking novels to his credit; Pocock is
an English writer who has written half a dozen care-
fully-planned, quietly humorous books which have
won praise from the critics. Each in his latest
volume has employed as the central character a
middle-aged man who is unexpectedly propelled from
a humdrum existence into a new and exciting life.
Pocock’s Arthur Stubbs and Howard’s Launcelot
Ffyshe are not only about the same age—the former
is 50 and the latter 42 —but they are, until their
respective transformations, most “respectable.”
Stubbs is a schoolmaster, unmarried, a mild
radical and a lover of good music and art. Ffyshe is
a solicitor’s clerk, an amateur gardener, a Rechabite :
he owns a walrus moustache, a pot-belly and a
nagging wife. Stubbs deserts the teaching profession
to start life afresh in a Chelsea flat. He does so
voluntarily. Ffyshe plunges into another world as
the result of an accident. His head makes contact
with a brass footrail in a public bar.
There is a wide gulf between their subsequent
adventures, yet both experience much the same be-
wilderment and strangeness in their new surroundings.
The Englishman, plus a pointed ginger beard, a black
sombrero, a. Spanish cape, green shirt, purple tie
and spotted socks, is as uncomfortable as the
Australian, minus his beloved tea-strainer and divested
of all clothing except a pair of vees, in the role of
a tattooed man in a sideshow. New environments
bring unusual acquaintances. ' The former school-
master rubs shoulders with painters who depict float-
ing kidneys in a thunderstorm, poets who make “object
poems” out of feathers, shoelaces, china eggs and
buttons fastened to a board, wild-eyed revolutionaries,
frenzied musicians and hipless female cranks. Ffyshe
consorts with hard-drinking journalists and artists,
sideshow pugs, a hypnotist, a snake-charmer and
hula dancers.
Howard’s description of a Saturday afternoon
spent first at a Greek fishshop and later in wild merri-
ment in a George-street pub is an authentic picture.
His sideshow scenes also ring true, as do the queer
haunts of the more fantastic followers of the various
arts.
The connecting link between the main idea and
the central character of each book does not extend
to the styles of writing. Howard is robust, alive.,
downright. He treats the unfortunate predicament
of Launcelot Ffyshe as a large and boisterous joke.
Pocock adopts a quieter method of presentation
He is more literary than Howard, more reflective,
more sympathetic towards his central character.
Howard wants to take you on a spree and have a
good time—he succeeds in doing so —but Pocock,
while providing you with amusement, wants you to
stop and consider what it actually means to change
your life at fifty. And he must have his dig at cranks.
The fanatics who surround Arthur Stubbs certainly
deserve all they get from Guy Pocock.
W. E. FITZ HENRY.


ms
*
yrnmi
■
£
■/ : . •:
H
■
as
■ .S'
HH
H
mmm
m
: y
m
u:
>
0
se
i!j[ 3 JL JL Jhl jV*. jBL Jr* «JL
-
£7
P&
o
■
♦
y"
A Present with a Future
mis
The World’s Best Safety
ROLLS RAZOR CO. OF AUSTRALIA PTY., LTD.
8A CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
INTERSTATE DISTRIBUTORS.
AND TASMANIA: D Reddan & Co., 330 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
SOUTH and^H'offnungs?^ 1 HO,,Se ' Crrek S "“*’
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Harris, Scarfe and Sandover, Ltd., Hay Street, Perth.


*
ROYAL
PURPLE
PARA
“SIP
uni
Mil
111^^—■—
mm
* Hi '■
SHI
:
■;
MB
H 8
;
H
MM
>■
■
■
m
f
HH
-
'•"H/ ' *
M
mm
u
■
SiayHMBI
4j
■
llMii»»lll
/ M ■■■■
misiili
S||i§p
n
1111
m
H
y'
H
■
«
Hi
»
■H|
mam
w
y*
m
nn
Wm
i ■
>v
M
it*
:; ••::
i
mm
rm
M
mam
mw
*
■kSsv
hhhhmi
■
M
HU
$5»
k ,*.**. VV. vtV y «’*' *"* - *
y* \v v Vv v j«* v «f- .vvlvy jr
* ' »„>• jjmjjr
11
■
H
H
■
» «3S
r «*>
r#as
i 11
■Mfe*** ;*• ..r,. a*
■ ■ ■ - ' " :> S .
-'■■■■' <• *- •* >Y-' •■ i>> :
-»/.*) * a i j --g3Bfe&sy»£ga ♦ .
.
.: \; “ - . :
": -•.
: , - - '**..c
iMlllii
Another View of Seppeltsheld, Showing Vast Storage and Maturing Cellars.
v ms
/


HE HAD A WONDERFUL WEEK.
“On the Duke of Windsor’s wedding morn the papers announced that Mrs. Freer is to be admitted by the Government which excluded her because she fell in love with
an Australian officer.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man."
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria : Newspaper Home, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: National Mutual Buildings, 91
King William Street, Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Saywell Buildings, 115 Lambton
Quay, Wellington.
London: 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London,
E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji and
United Kingdom via “All Sea Route,” 2d. New
Hebrides and United Kingdom via France or
America, 3d. To all other places, 4d.
RABAUL—AND AFTER.
In 1883 Queensland, to forestall German occupation,
annexed that part of New Guinea which was not
claimed by Holland. The British Government repudi-
ated the annexation, but, after a guarantee had been
found by the Australian colonies, it agreed to take
over portion of the country. Sovereignty was pro-
claimed in 1887 over what is known as Papua.
Germany got the rest, together with the Bismarck and
Admiralty islands and part of the Solomons.
Looking back, it is clear that the British rulers
of the period blundered. Britain could have had for
the asking the territories which Germany occupied.
Had it exercised the privilege, there would have
been no battle on the Bita Paka road, no young
Australians buried in the cemetery at Rabaul, no
Scharnhorst and no Gneisenau in the Pacific in 1914.
In 1906 Papua was transferred to the Australian
Commonwealth. After the war the Commonwealth
received, under mandate from the League, a large
slice of the New Guinea mainland, the German
Solomons, the Bismarcks and other groups; about
91,000 square miles altogether. For administra-
tive and legislative purposes, it was empowered
to treat the new possession as “an integral part of the
Commonwealth of Australia”; the mandate was
permanent.
Japan took over, also under permanent mandate,
the former Spanish islands bought by Germany. It left
the League, and declared them part of its empire.
Australia is still plodding away as a League servant.
Several gentlemen go expensively to Geneva every
year to touch their forelocks and explain why three
shotguns instead of four have been imported, and to
apologise if somebody wasn’t polite to a Lithuanian
missionary.
The logical thing to do with New Guinea was to
attach it to Papua for administrative purposes. Papua
was governed by a trusted chief, Hubert Murray.
It had an experienced staff who knew their native.
Instead, the government of the new territory was
handed over to amateurs. The first Administrator had
been a publican. The first lot of magistrates included
a wireless operator and a baker. Expropriated plan-
tations were placed under the control of men who
had never seen a coconut. The territory then
depended on copra, and had it gone on depending
on copra the great slump would have brought blue
ruin. Fortunately gold was discovered; and the
Administration has since been bursting with pride at
its prosperity and its surpluses—secured by taxing
every kind of export and import.
On the south-east of New Britain, the mandate
ends with Bougainville Island. In clear sight of Buin,
on the southern end of Bougainville, British territory
begins. To run this territory—about 14,600 square
miles —Downing-street sends an Administrator 12,000
miles from London, although Australia is only a few
hundred miles away.
Close to the New Guinea-Papua border Jie the
Morobe and Bulolo goldfields, the mainstays of the
Mandated Territory. On the mainland, too, handy
to Papua, are nearly the whole of the N.G. timber
resources, most of the high agricultural land of the
N.G. territory and the bulk of the population. If oil
is found, it will be almost certainly on the N.G.
mainland. But the capital is not Port Moresby,
the centre of English-speaking New Guinea experi-
ence, but Rabaul, several hundred miles away, over
a treacherous and reef-strewn open sea.
The Administrator lives at Rabaul. Rabaul
has Government departments and a tin-can Parlia-
ment, dominated by civil servants, which meets a
couple of times a year and turns out sausage-machine
ordinances, dictated from Canberra, at the rate of a
dozen or so a day.
Rabaul is on a small crooked peninsula con-
nected with the main New Britain headland by a
narrow neck of land. It is called Crater Peninsula,
and it was selected as a temporary capital by the
Germans largely because it was shunned by the
natives and was easy of defence against raids by
tribes who had made bloody history among the
pioneers round another temporary capital, Herbert-
shohe, 20 miles away. The town is on the inland
side of a mile-wide crater lip, of which Blanche Bay,
the harbor, is the old crater. Hot springs bubble at
the mouth of Blanche Bay. Dampier visited it in the
seventeenth century and left records; since his time
two mountains have blown their heads off within a
mile of Rabaul, and two islands have come up in
the harbor.
One of those islands, six miles from the heart
of Rabaul, until last week a mud flat, has material-
ised as a three - headed active volcano, 600
feet high. A bar has formed across the harbor
mouth. The town, on which, according to the
Government Secretary, Mr. Page, £500,000 has
been spent by the Administration, is deserted. It
might have been a graveyard for the entire popu-
lation. Had the bar closed at the first eruption and
the ash and pumice fall been heavy instead of light,
or had the eruption come in Rabaul itself, under
which the ground is so hollow that a heavy footfall
makes it resound like a drum, there must have been
frightful loss of life. Yet the Administration is calmly
proceeding to reoccupy the capital that literally sits
on a volcano and is next door to other volcanoes.
This Administration is superfluous. There is an
obvious and overwhelming case for unifying the
government of these island territories, from the Solo-
mons to Humboldt Bay. And no political eruption is
required. It needs only the scratch of a pen.
"The Workers' Paradise."
A Conservative member of the Commons lately
returned to England from Russia with the impres-
sion that the land over which Stalin wields his
dictatorship is “one vast slum.” He reported also
that “collectivising agriculture” entailed the “liqui-
dation” of 5,000,000 peasants, that the avoidable
famine of 1932-33 cost the death of at least 10,000,000
more, and that there are to-day anything between two
and three million political prisoners in “free” Russia.
Upholders of the Soviet naturally dismiss this
M.P. as a prejudiced witness, but evidence to the
same effect is now coming from people who have
been ramming down our throats for years that Soviet
Russia was paradise on earth.
One of these disillusioned gentlemen, Max East-
man, wrote in 1934 an article in which he lavished on
the Soviet superlatives fit for an Arabian Night’s
dream of the abode of Allah. Now he finds that what
he had lauded was really “a concentration of poli-
tical power and privilege in the hands of a bureau-
cratic caste supporting an autocrat more ruthless than
the Czars.” He is staggered by the once-dear Soviet’s
having made the death penalty for theft applicable
not only to adults but to “minors from the age of
twelve.” The blackest ages of barbarism produced
no decree more barbarous than that.
Mr. Eastman, the gallery-boy of 1934, now admits
that “peasants have been starved by millions” in the
process of “collectivising in the name of the workers’
and peasants’ republic.”
Nothing could exceed the brutality, caprice and
disloyalty to socialism with which Stalin has handled
this problem of problems. Expropriating the well-off
peasants called “kulaks” at the point of the bayonet,
shipping them to Siberia in cattle-trucks by hundreds
of thousands, herding the remainder into collectives
before even the machinery for large-scale farming was
manufactured, he laid waste all fertile Russia.
Another finding is that in 1933 the Soviet
“let four to six millions of the population starve
to death in order to build up foreign credit.” Poor
Mr. Eastman now has to swallow all his beflowered
words and say that, by means of the “purges,” the
so-called “trials,” with execution by shooting in the
back of the head or grim murder in prison cells,
“every independent act or even discourse questioning
the ruling clique'’ is ruthlessly suppressed.
Mr. Andrew Smith, of the U.S.A., is of Mr.
Eastman’s kidney. As a guest of the U.S.S.R., repre-
senting American comrades in Communism, Mr.
Smith swallowed every bit of guff that was offered
to him. He returned to America, then gave
away his savings and betook himself as a worker to
Russia. A voluble gentleman, Mr. Smith has expressed
his disillusionment in about 100,000 words, of which
these are fair average:
Kuznetzov lived with about 550 others, men and
women, in a wooden structure about 800 ft. long and
15ft. wide. The room contained approximately 500
narrow beds, covered with matresses filled with straw
or dried leaves. There were no pillows or blankets.
Some of the residents had no beds, and slept on the
floor or in wooden boxes.
Mr. Smith sums up:
If the American workers were to live under the
conditions of the Russian workers, there would be a
revolution in the United States.
Most devastating of these disillusioned witnesses
is the Frenchman Andre Gide. Gide has written
for years in adoration of the Soviet. He has been
its foremost champion in France, and he still has
hope for it. His hope is based on “the help that
the Soviet Union is giving to Spain”!
In Moscow Gide saw hundreds of people lined up
waiting for hours outside a shop ; a newspaper had
announced the arrival of a few hundred pillows. He
came across “a prodigious quantity of melons —taste-
less.” The U.S.S.R. “cannot minister to the pleasures
of appetite” because “so many appetites are still
starving.” And “the displays in the shop window,
of Moscow are horrifying.”
You are sorry for those people who stand in a queue
for hours; but they think waiting perfectly natural.
Their bread and vegetables and fruit seem to you
but there is nothing else. You find the stuffs and the
articles frightful; but there is no choice.
As for the “homes” of the people:
I wish I could convey the queer and depressing
impression produced by each of these “homes” the
impression of complete depersonalisation. In each, the
same ugly furniture, the same portrait of Stalin, and
absolutely nothing else, not the smallest object, not the
smallest personal souvenir.
He describes one row of hovels:
There, four people share a room measuring eight
feet by six, which they rent for two roubles per head per
month. The luxury of a meal at the sovkhose restaurant,
which costs two roubles, is beyond the means of those
whose monthly salary is only seventy-five roubles. They
have to content themselves with bread and dried fish.
No “enemy of the Soviet” has made a more
devastating exposure of this dilapidated paradise. It
becomes tragic when supplemented by a few facts
from sources equally beyond suspicion—such as the
recent admission of “Izvestia” that the percentage
of divorces to marriages has risen to 44.
Misery is driving women to the most dangerous
remedies. During the year 1935 there have been regis-
tered, in Moscow alone, 150,000 cases of abortion.
There is another value in these truths besides their
exposure of the sham “freedom” that has been held
up as a model. They provide one of the strongest
arguments in support of the present trend of British
foreign policy away from European entanglements.
With the League of Nations and “collective security ’
governing that policy, Britain was committed to the
Soviet; though the spreading of world-revolution is
still the Soviet’s avowed aim, with the sickening war
in Spain its finest fruit, the Soviet has become a
League champion. Apart from the League, we are
not yet completely out of this wood. It is commonly
accepted in France that Britain is committed to rush
to France’s assistance. France is separately bound
to the Soviet by the Franco-Soviet pact ; and so the
old ugly circle crops up again, outside the League:
France committed to Russia, Britain committed to
France, and ourselves committed with Britain.
If the shadow of a statesman had been sent to
the Imperial Conference it would be known by now
how Australia, at any rate, regards these stupid
entanglements for the Empire. Especially the danger-
ous and worthless Soviet entanglement.
Queensland's Medical School.
With the completion of the £50,000 building now
being erected near the Brisbane General Hospital,
Queensland will have made a notable addition to
Australia’s resources for the training and develop-
ment of workers in medical science.
The Forgan Smith Government deserves high
credit for the liberality and far-sightedness with which
it has considered and realised the proposals of its
academic advisers. It has called into being a young
and vigorous medical-teaching centre, manned by
young and vigorous teachers, and with every prospect
of achieving the high standards set by the older insti-
tutions of Sydney, Melbourne and Adelaide.
The Queensland Medical Board represents the
latest development of the University of Queensland,
which, beginning in 1911 with 83 students among
three faculties, has now ten faculties and over 1200
students. Difficulties remain to be overcome, par-
ticularly with respect to accommodation, but these
are in themselves satisfactory evidence of rapid and
healthy growth. They have been foreseen and planned
for by the senate. It is on account of this able pro-
vision that it has been possible to ensure that the new
accommodation for the Medical School will be ready
for advanced students by March, 1938, and that the
University’s first medical graduates will receive their
degrees by December, 1940.
Considered on purely academic lines, a university
which depends wholly or partly for its existence upon
Government funds may be regarded as handicapped
by the necessity for keeping always in the good books
of whatever Administration happens to be in power.
The case against State control is invariably illustrated
by a picture of a heel-clicking professor bowing
respectfully to the order of a dictator for the imme-
diate production of a properly totalitarian textbook
on any subject, from civics to astronomy, and on
strictly party lines.
Such a condition of affairs is impossible in Aus-
tralia. Popular appreciation of the immense scientific,
industrial, intellectual and economic value of our uni-
versities is steadily developing throughout this country.
With every growth of this appreciation, the remote
likelihood diminishes of any attempt at political con-
trol over any of them for party purposes. The com-
plete freedom which universities already enjoy in
controversial political questions is illustrated by the
recent indiscreet outburst of six Melbourne professors.
No Australian politician would dream of taking
retaliatory measures against them or the university
which employs them.
None the less, any university is better off with
money of its own, and as much of it as possible. Not
to enable it or its staff to be independent of the com-
munity, but to enable it to do more and better work.
Even a small gift may enable some piece of apparatus
to be bought, some fee for special teaching to be made
up, some research to be carried a step further, with
possible benefits out of proportion to the amount.
Any Queenslander, any Australian, who has money
to bequeath—better still, to give and watch the result
—will make good use of it by joining those who have
already begun an endowment fund for the use of
Queensland’s University. Or, for the matter of that,
any of Australia’s six universities. They all need
money, and they will all make good use of any which
comes their way.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
"Quoted at a Discount."
U.A.P. newspapers may be searched in vain for a
protest against the shameful resumption of borrowing
in London by the N. S. Wales Stevens Government,
with the Metropolitan Water and Sewerage Board
for dummy.
The genesis of the disgraceful transaction was
referred to in precise terms by G. H. Bowhay,
president of the N. S. Wales Shires Association, in
his report to the annual conference of the shires.
Mr. Bowhay said that the Government had struck
a bargain with the Water Board: the Government was
to “write off” £11,450,000 of Water Board debt — i.e.,
transfer the burden from board ratepayers to State
taxpayers —and the board was to borrow £15,000,000,
at the rate of £3,000,000 a year for five years.
The £2,000,000 London loan is a consequence of
the bargain. It is significant that the public was
apprised of it, not by the chairman of the Water
Board, but by the Premier. That gentleman informed
“S. M. Herald” that the rate of interest, 4 p.c.
sterling, is “little more than the interest paid by local
bodies in England, and substantially less than the
£4 Bs. p.c. paid to investors in the last Water Board
loan raised in Australia.”
In point of fact, local bodies in places like Birken-
head, Blackpool, Cardiff, Derby, Dundee, Hudders-
field, Lanarkshire, Leeds, Liverpool, Manchester,
Newport, Oxford, Plymouth, Sheffield and Wakefield
have been able to borrow at 3 p.c. Their stocks were for
the most part quoted round 97 in the latest available
table, and are “free of stamp duty,” which the Water
Board loan is not. The last Bruce conversion loan
was placed at £2 18s. 6d. p.c. Though a special rate
on the last Water Board loan floated in Australia had
to be offered to a public mindful of the board’s his-
tory, the average on Australian Government securi-
ties is £3 13s. p.c.
All that the public has been permitted to learn
as to how the loan was received in London is that
it has been quoted at a discount of ss. The operation
is a rotten preliminary to the additional loan conver-
sions that will have to be undertaken by Mr. Bruce
or his successor; and a p.c. loan of £11,409,900
matures on November 1.
Not Crowned but Wedded.
Travellers returned from England tell strange stories
of the King who was never crowned. They are listened
to politely, but with increasing incredulity; for the
bitter resentment which succeeded the shock of the
abdication is vanishing.
Men now think of Edward as the heir-apparent
who was condemned to be a show from youth to
middle-age; to be stared at by strangers morning,
noon and night; to be affable to myriads of bores
and snobs ; to listen to uncountable dull speeches and
effusive compliments ; to drive through unnumbered
leagues of foreign streets, doubtless wondering at
times whether the fate of the last Yugoslav King was
reserved for him.
For 17 years Edward was expected to be half-
divinity and half-commercial traveller wherever he
went —and he had to go everywhere. Politicians called
him “Our Young Man,” traded on his good looks and
his immense popularity, and denied him what they and
the humblest of their fellow-subjects enjoyed—privacy.
If weaknesses revealed themselves when the
victim was summoned to still greater ordeals and
responsibilities, they Were at least human weaknesses.
The world agrees that the British Empire Govern-
ments and peoples proved equal to the emergency of
the abdication ; but the principal actor likewise played
his part well. He rejected the temptation to make
a constitutional issue of the marriage on which he
had set his heart; formed no Court party, demanded
no civil-list pension, and reproached no one, though
hierarchs, toadies and tufthunters had reproached
him.
Millions of hearts were touched by the simple
pathos of Edward’s farewell speech. They warmed
to him again when he wedded his Wallis —the second
daughter of Baltimore to marry into an imperial
family—in the old Touraine chateau. Here, again, no
false note was struck, and the French civil marriage
was rounded off bravely by a religious ceremony per-
formed by the Rev. Jardine. We Australians know
these Jardines. A stubborn breed, but they get what
they go after, whether they have to brave wild cricket
crowds, aborigines or archbishops.
History has a way of dismissing contemporary
verdicts. Possibly it will decide that in giving up
the crown to marry an American at a time when
Anglo-American concord is the hope of the world,
Edward unconsciously rendered the English-speaking
peoples the greatest service it was in him to render.
Live News from Spain.
For once, war news from Spain has needed no exag-
geration to make it sensational. Last week the
pleasantry of Spanish Government ’planes bombing
ships of various nations that are helping to carry out
the non-intervention agreement was brought up with
an unpleasantly sharp turn.
It opened with the bombing of the Italian war-
ship Barletta. Six of the Barletta’s crew were
killed and others wounded. Bombs were also dropped
near a German destroyer on the same job; the
attack was witnessed from British warships. Italy and
Germany protested, as Britain had done in the case
of H.M.S. Hardy, which was hit while lying off Palma,
though no lives were lost.
Then the German battleship Deutschland was
bombed ; 23 ratings were killed outright, 19 seriously
wounded and 62 slightly wounded. The death-roll
so far is 26. The ship put in at Gibraltar, buried her
dead and sent the wounded to hospital.
The usual lie emanated from the Spanish Govern-
ment propaganda factory.
A warship, reported to have been the German
battleship Admiral Scheer, was bombed after it had
fired without provocation at two Spanish Govern-
ment ’planes flying over the Balearic Islands.
The fact was that the Deutschland not the
Admiral Scheer —without any aggression on its part,
was bombed —a criminal attack on a ship doing its
peaceful duty as part of the non-intervention cordon.
Protest was carried into action by a reprisal bombard-
ment of Almeria.
German warships bombarded the fortified harbor.
When the harbor works had been destroyed and
the coast batteries silenced the reprisal was broken
off and concluded. There must have been loss of life,
possibly heavy, but it is certain that the figures given
out by the Spanish Government were exaggerated.
From that source lying is habitual.
The incidents have been deplored in Britain,
France and elsewhere. There can be no question
that the bombings were criminal and provocative;
the ships taking part in the cordon are there in
consequence of an agreement to which many coun-
tries are parties, and which was endorsed by both
sides in the Spanish civil war. Still, it is equally
unquestionable that, great as the provocation was, in
taking reprisal of the kind that was taken, Germany
made a serious error.
The British official warning to the Spanish Gov-
ernment that “there must be no repetition” renders it
unmistakably clear which side Britain believes to have
been in the wrong. That well-informed official opinion
agrees with Britain is pointed by the ease with which
the affair has blown over.
It must come as a relief to many that such an
incident could blow over so easily. Though the
element of mutual suspicion remains—and for this
scaremongers are largely responsible —Europe con-
tinues more reluctant than ever to go down again to
the shambles.
No Responsibility.
To hand, from the N. S. Wales Deputy-Commissioner
of Transport, a copy of a safety-first article with a
request for publication. It begins with a statement
that “in N. S. Wales in 1936, 550 persons were killed
and 6894 injured in motor-vehicle accidents, and 83
per cent, of the accidents were due to human failure,”
and it closes with a call to duty or something like that.
Let each one of us resolve to do his or her part
in the propagation of the code of safety. The effort
required from each individual is small, but the sum of
the benefits that may be obtained is almost beyond
estimation.
The distribution of these improving remarks
coincided with a newspaper report of a case in which
another hit-run driver was charged with manslaughter.
He had knocked down a man who was crossing Park-
street, Sydney, when a constable had given the stop-
traffic signal; the victim down and gasping out his life,
the car hit a tram. When the police got to it, the
driver had bolted.
The defence? It was in substance that the car,
which belonged to a friend, was a menace even to an
experienced driver; the footbrake pedal was so close
to the accelerator that while putting his foot on the
brake accused had touched the accelerator by mis-
take.
After abandoning the car, the youth took a taxi
to a suburb and picked up his own car, which had
been undergoing repairs. His intention was to clear
out to Melbourne; a friend persuaded him to stay in
his own suburb of Manly, for “if the worst came to
the worst he could say he was drunk and get out of
it with a fine.”
With a companion he visited practically every hotel
in Manly and even took two girls for a drive in his
car. Later police came to his boarding-house.
The verdict? A supererogatory question: “Not
guilty” ; accused discharged.
The principle that a driver of a motor vehicle which
kills on the King’s highway is not responsible for its
condition, however dangerous, was accepted in a case
heard by the City Coroner the very next day. Here
the victim was an old woman who had begun to cross
the road in a Newtown street, had hesitated and been
felled by a motor-lorry. Her husband allowed that
the driver had “had no chance of pulling up,” and
a companion of the driver said the lorry had been
stopped within 15 feet. But when a police officer
tested the brakes he found them useless.
The handbrake was disconnected and the footbrake
was not operating. At 15 m.p.h. it took 47 yards to
stop the lorry, which was loaded with metal screenings,
and then the engine brought it to a standstill.
The Coroner decided that there was no evidence
of criminal negligence. Replying to a son of the
deceased, who suggested a recommendation for com-
pulsory examination of brakes once a month, he said
the matter was not one for him.
Anyone desirous of perusing the Deputy-Com-
missioner’s observations not here reprinted can doubt-
less get a copy from that worthy gentleman. It seems
improbable that moral suasion will be of much use
in saving children, old people or cripples from being
killed or maimed by drivers of lethal vehicles, licensed
or unlicensed, or even hale persons thoughtless enough
to believe that traffic signals will protect them; but it
will assuredly be as effective as manslaughter charges
until the present law and jury practice are radically
altered.
Muddlemenf irs Government.
Worthy people in the Winton district of far-west
Queensland have conceived the idea that the Com-
monwealth Government. should be asked to grant
£1,000,000 to enable pastoralists to restock after the
devastations of drought. The proposal is that the
Federal Parliament shall vote the money and the
Queensland Government undertake its “control,”
meaning its distribution.
The proposal has the cordial approval of the
Queensland Minister of Agriculture, Mr. Bulcock,
who says that the matter is urgent, is of vital
“national” importance, and “should be faced by the
national Government.”
Mr. Norman Bourke, president of the Queens-
land United Graziers, also gives the notion his bless-
ing. In doing so, he points out that for a long time
his organisation has been endeavoring to induce the
State Government to give relief by remissions of
land tax and income tax and in other directions; and
failing this he supports the proposed appeal to
Canberra.
So the proposition really boils down to this: that
the Federal Government should come to the rescue of
Queenslanders whose material condition needs sup-
port, support which the State Government has refused
to afford by way of tax-relief. In short, that the
common funds of all the people of Australia should
be invaded to enable distressed people in Queensland
to recover drought losses and continue to provide the
State Government with excessive tax-revenue.
The proposal helps to illustrate the muddlement
that is developing among the combination of Govern-
ments in this country and their utter lack of adher-
ence to fixed principles.
No "Aids to Navigation."
The stranding of the collier Minmi on Cape Banks,
Botany Bay, was referred by the Commonwealth
authorities to a Court of Marine Inquiry. The master,
Captain Callum, was formally charged with neglect
of duty. It was shown to the satisfaction of the
Court that he had set a safe and proper course, and
he was exonerated. Actually he was not on the bridge
when the vessel struck, and in his evidence he attri-
buted the stranding to the set of the current.
The question of navigation lights was not dwelt
on at this inquiry, but it has been the theme of bitter
comment among coastal mariners. A strong southerly
current and a haze make navigation difficult for
coasters voyaging north to Sydney. To keep out of
the current masters and officers in charge of most
coasting vessels have to crawl along in the dark. For
from Kiama to Eclipse Bluff, a couple of miles south
of South Head, they are without the assistance of a
single coastal light or any other trustworthy aid to
safe navigation.
Captain Lawrence, general secretary of the Mer-
chant Service Guild, has put the position very plainly
in a letter to the Minister of Commerce.
The loss of the s.s. Minmi would have been pre-
vented if only reasonable aids to safe navigation existed
in this very dangerous and treacherous section of the
coastline.
Vessels bound north, after availing themselves of
the shelter from the strong southerly current afforded by
the headlands in the neighborhood of the entrance to
Botany Bay, are brought into close proximity to the
land unless a great deal of unnecessary distance is
covered. As the locality is void of all navigation lights,
the distance from the land has to be gauged by means
often unreliable, such as the dark outline of the land
itself or suburban lights.
At South Head there is a 25-mile light, often
visible at sea at a distance of 30 or 40 miles. But
as a result of local settlement or something, its rays
are of no use to northward-bound craft hugging the
coast. Farther south, according to Captain Lawrence,
“the Wollongong light has been made undiscernible
by the multiplicity of high-powered street lights which
extend from Port Kembla to Stanwell Park.”
The Merchant Service Guild has asked the Gov-
ernment to put a lighthouse on Cape Banks or Cape
Baily. In its general secretary’s letter to Dr. Page, it
was suggested that one had been authorised and the
equipment bought, only to be shipped to some other
port; and there has been no published denial on
the Minister’s part.
Britain's Great Achievement.
Eighteen months ago there was little doubt as to
which country was commercially supreme in the air.
The U.S.A. won hands down. To-day there is just
as little doubt: Britain wins by a length and a half.
The American “Aviation,” formerly very critical of
Imperial Airways, now admits it.
An extract from a recent number:
Eighteen-ton high-speed flying-boats are slipping off
the assembly-line like Taylor cubs; four-engined super-
speed land transports are almost ready for test, months
before our [U.S.A.] D.C.4 project even promises to be
off the drafting-table. Call it long-nurtured strategy
or a triumph of muddling through, it shapes into a
surprisingly unified and formidable plan. The pro-
gramme can scarcely fail to give Britain a position in
air transport equalling its leadership in ocean commerce.
What an astoundingly bold project it is! How
splendid that in the midst of a frantic attempt to make
up lost ground in the European race for military
supremacy Britain has had the vision to authorise the
diversion of manufacturing facilities for the construction
of so great a commercial fleet! Its equipment plans
are really magnificent. Altogether there are 40 ’planes
delivered or expected during 1937.
“Aviation” adds that the experiment will be
“fascinating to watch during the next few months.”
Unless Mr. Lyons and Mr. Parkhill wake up, Australia
will watch it from afar. For 18 months those worthies
have been throwing cold water on the London-
Australia flying-boat project, and now their substi-
tutes in Australia are letting a selfish local agitation
delay the establishment of a base instead of scotching
it in a sentence.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Dick Tafone”: Brisbane policemen
have their humorous experiences at times.
An elderly country visitor wandered into
Roma-street station complaining that his
false teeth had been stolen. He visited
a park with a newly-found lady friend,
and had removed them to facilitate kiss-
ing her. The equally false female had
grabbed them and disappeared in the
darkness. In another case a man was
found sitting disconsolately on the run-
ning-board of a car late at night com-
plaining that his own car had been
stolen. He didn’t know its number, and
was vague about its description. The
patrolman rang up the wanderer’s wife
for the requisite information, and found
that the robbed victim was sitting on his
own car. Startling dashes have been
made by the patrol cars to rescue
alarmed householders from breaking-in
burglars, to find imprisoned cats, a goat
or a swinging tree-branch as the cause
of terror. But when a cat ate a bobby’s
supper of prawns, concealed on a handy
step, the incident was not regarded as
humorous.
# * X X
“Tuart”: The Duke of Windsor is not
the first member of a reigning family to
marry an American. In 1803 Napoleon
sent his young brother Jerome across the
Atlantic to see whether a naval cruise
would improve the youth’s mind and
morals. Jerome came back with a Mrs.
Jerome, who had been a Miss Elizabeth
Patterson, of —yes, Baltimore. But when
he proposed to add Mrs. J. to the attrac-
tions of the Napoleonic Court he was
told that unless he abandoned her he
would be struck off the imperial and
royal rolls. He abandoned her quite
cheerfully after she had presented him
with a son, born in England. Like
Tennyson’s William, Jerome took an-
other mate, but Lizzie lived unmarried
till her death. The second Mrs. Jerome
was Princess Catherine of Wurtemberg,
and they became King and Queen of
Westphalia for six years, 1807-1813 ; in the
latter year, their devoted subjects taking
part in the War of Liberation, they had
to bolt. The ex-king had a divisional
command at Waterloo, and took part
in the attack on Hougoumont. He out-
lived the rest of his brothers and all his
sisters, and shared the triumph of the
third Napoleon, dying a disreputable old
relic, 57 years after his marriage with
Lizzie. Her son founded a noted Balti-
more family whom the Duchess of Wind-
sor must know; a member King
Jerome’s grandson—became one of the
first Roosevelt’s Ministers: Secretary of
the Navy and then Attorney-General of
the United States. A son of Jerome and
Catherine was the ablest of the great
Napoleon’s nephews, though ridiculed as
“Plon-Plon” by his soldiers in the Crimea
and the wits of Paris.
* * * *
“Poetaster”: The man who answers
verse contributors in The Bulletin is
likely to lose his few remaining hairs if
the subjective and intercommunicative
school of poetry gets a foothold here.
One who was introduced to a member
of the new cult tells how he asked to see
some of the poet’s work and had it ex-
plained to him that the poet did not write
his poems. Instead, the inquirer was
shown “The White Soul’s Wish,” which
had taken three weeks to compose. It
was a small, shallow cardboard box. To
the bottom were fastened two white
feathers, a white shoelace, a plaster of
Paris egg, two bone buttons, a cockle-
shell and a Turkish cigarette. As the
composer explained, “the poise of the
feathers and the rhythm of position give
what one might call an optative quality
to the general falling cadence.”
X * * *
“Col. Bungstarter”: Announcements
that the first Australian-made piece of
artillery is to be. fired presently overlook
the cannon manufactured by Mort’s
Dock, Sydney, for King George of
Tonga in the ’nineties. There had been a
difference of opinion between His
Majesty and the Tongan Parliament con-
cerning the royal choice of a future
queen. The King complained that no
suitable gun was available for returning
the salutes of visiting warships, and for
the sake of peace Parliament voted the
money for a sizable muzzle-loader. Amid
public acclamation it was mounted on a
hill overlooking Parliament House. Soon
afterwards an emissary from his Majesty
appeared at the Bar of the House with
a royal message to the effect that the
gun was loaded with a large collection
of miscellaneous hardware and trained
on the House. It was a hot day, and the
piece might go off. It would go off if
the emissary was not back within 20
minutes with a resolution agreeing to his
Majesty’s marriage to anyone he pleased.
Parson and bride were there when the
emissary returned, well on time, with the
resolution passed unanimously.
* * * *
“D.E.”: A nice sense of humor was
exhibited by Boyce, J., in a Sydney case
in which a taxi-cab man sued for a dis-
solution of his marriage with a County
Council employee on the ground of im-
propriety with another. The taxi-cab
man admitted having paid attention to
other girls—to bring his missus back to
a sense of duty, he said —and having
written to them. “Do you remember
these words?” he was asked:
I stood alone in a lovely garden. There
were beautiful flowers in magnificent pro-
fusion. The whole of the garden was inter-
cepted with crazy paths.
“H’m,” the Judge interposed ; “it seems
an apt time to adjourn for lunch.” Lunch
over, the reading of the Macaulay-flowers
of literature was resumed: —
I espied in the corner of the garden a
beautiful red rose. There were other
roses all round me, but this particular
rose seemed different to all the others
Exhausted and bleeding I clasped the
bloom in my hand, but, alas, the petals
fell off and just left the dead stalk in my
hand, and I felt a throb of poignancy
shoot through my heart. The elf s voice
whispered “Alas!” The illusion of life
had broken.
There was a lot more of it, but that’s
enough. The Judge, who had to stand
it all, said “Mark it Exhibit G.” Inci-
dentally, the taxi-cab man mentioned
that he was in the habit of jotting down
his thoughts in the middle of the night.
The jury awarded him a decree nisi and
£75 damages, enough to buy a ton or so
of paper and a few hogsheads of ink.
* * * *
“Plain Mr.”: Whether or not Stanley
Baldwin achieves the final national tri-
bute of a resting place in Westminster
Abbey, he is assured of a permanent
niche in St. George’s Chapel, Windsor,
where stall-plates of Knights of the
Garter remain for all time. The Garter,
founded in 1349, is generally considered
the world’s most illustrious order of
chivalry, only the Golden Fleece (Spain
and Austria) disputing that claim, until
the world blew up. Elevation of com-
moners to the Order is rare, Edward
Grey and Austen Chamberlain being
notable instances. The number of mem-
bers is usually limited to the King and
25 knights companions, and Baldwin pos-
sibly fills the vacancy caused recently
“I now ask yto give three ’earty cheers fr Missus Orpington fr laying this ’ere stone.”
by the death of his successor’s half-
brother. The King’s thoughtful act in
delaying the granting of the ex-P.M.’s
letters-patent as an earl enabled Bald-
win to achieve the signal honor of a
K.G. while yet a plain “Mr.” A duke-
dom would not have been a greater mark
of the royal favor.
*** . *
Jamwood : Berets, which had a great
vogue among the women when Borotra,
the Bounding Basque, was in his glory
(luckily for him, Borotra can do his
bounding on the right side of the fron-
tier), are now being worn by men.
Underground toilers and the like have
found them useful when working in cold
spots, being able to pull the things well
over the head and warm the ears. The
Basque lid is often to be seen on a head
bobbing up from the Circular Quay
extension to the railway tunnel; but it
would be decidedly unsafe for any pass-
ing city clerk to make audible comments
°” the ° w ” er ’f tas '<: ln headgear The
chap w'th the beret is very apt to be the
„ the Zt 8 aPP 8
in me gang. * # ,
“Puffinus”: Australia’s two - man
“cyclone watch” at Willis Island, far out
in the Coral Sea, to the north-east of
Townsville, has been relieved after a
twelvemonth spell of duty. There is no
tropic gem touch about Willis. Some 14
acres of coral shingle, nowhere more
than 25ft. above sea-level, with a tew
pisonia trees and a vegetable patch lead-
• • . „ u,,. with
in § a P reca nous existence , a ,
a cellar for protection ot the instruments
in case of cyclones ; a store, an outbuild-
ing or two and the wireless masts, it is
6 , e r'^nr l fichimr
no scen 9 set for romance. Good fishing
from the reef — one gets bait by chasing
a S or g ed § an «et down wind until he dis-
charges cargo to lighten the taking-ott
lo . ad ; The oth f amenity is unlimited
wireless news of world range. But the
two watchers finished fit, well and happy,
tdeir only trouble being the eftec
shoes and hard pavements on fee
* or a Year-
*“ . .
“Engee”: Why pick out one artist for
bloomers (B. 19/5/’37)? The whole
tribe fall into them sooner or later,
Dave Low once drew a bullock team
with the driver on the right-hand side,
Hal Gye, too, put the driver on the
wrong side when painting the colored
frontispiece for C. J. Dennis’s Back-
Block Ballads. It was not until 2000
copies had been printed that the mistake
was noticed ; then the artist and the
process-engravers corrected it. Dennis,
by the way, once asserted that no artist
in Australia could draw an axe-handle
correctly. He wasn’t far wrong, either,
* * * *
“Uramao”: A cable mentioning that
*he Duke of Windsor is a possible bidder
f° r Lopg Island estate of William
Leeds reminds me that I once met the
plutocrat. I was aboard the island
steamer Tofua with many Maorilanders
an( j Australians when she arrived at
Samoa in May, 1926. “Billy” Leeds was
there, entertaining lavishly the dusky
potentates. He wished to go to the
American portion of Samoa (Pago Pago),
but the only means was by cutter, which
the multi-millionaire disliked, so he char-
tered the passenger steamer for (it was
sa i d ) 2 000 dahlars to take him the 80
miles. The passengers were thrilled at
t he additional voyage their tickets did
not contract for, and William B. Leeds,
0 f Long i s l an d, was accepted as a god-
send. The presence of this Croesus among
us intrigued the lady passengers until it
was learned he was married to Princess
Xenia of Greece. After that his stock
broke several points, as they say in Wall-
street.
* * * *
« Karl Koph” • Having created an
ff i between Benno Mussolini and
& Fontanges, London cable-
crammers are now busy setting up one
for Hitler. The lady is Pola Negri; the
London “Sunday Express states that
Der Fiihrer has been seen in her com-
pany. These days that is called “irre-
futable evidence.”
BODYLINE.
“Disciplinary action is threatened by the heads
of the Anglican Church against the Rev. Jardine,
who went to France to marry the Duke of Windsor
to a twice-divorced wife.”
What memories it stirs, that Scottish name!
What echoes cling around it and about,
Of one across the heaving seas who came
Intent on getting bats like Bradman out!
They rated Douglas’ for a dark design,
Such as before was never heard or seen
Where flannelled fools in friendly sport combine,
And now, it seems, they want to bodyline
The Reverend Jardine.
Larwood and Voce, destroying fiends, ’twas said,
Were shown the savage way they had to bowl
From that supremely enterprising head
And that amazingly intrepid soul.
What storms of hate about his head there ran,
What bushels full of wigs were on the green,
When that inevitable row began
About the ways and methods of the clan
Be-skippered by Jardine!
And now another of the Scottish race
Into the limelight of the moment climbs —
Excuse, I pray, my lack of metric grace
And obvious deficiency of rhymes.
But, no one else being there the knot to twine
On hands that might have stood for King and
Queen,
There’s few of us would blame him, I opine.
I doubt if he’s a mark for bodyline,
The Reverend Jardine.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Adelaide”: A story of the corrupt use
of power, straight out of an eighteenth-
century French novel, has been un-
folded in the Adelaide courts. A girl
in domestic service said that a suburban
constable, who had seen her with a boy
friend in a public park, charged her next
day, on the telephone, with some vaguely
improper conduct. When she went to
the station of which he was in charge
to beg him not to damage her repu-
tation, he refused her offer of money,
but instead “committed a serious offence
without her consent.” His defence was
that she did consent; but the Criminal
Court called it worth five years.
* * * *
“Kwakprak”: In this disbelieving age
meteorologists cast scorn upon sunspots
and the shape of the young moon as
weather indicators, but the faithful throb-
bing corn has been reinstated in its age-
old place of honor as a reliable rain-
predictor. The physiological explanation
is that the air pressure on the external
surface of the body falls shortly before
rain is due. Relief of outside pressure
allows the blood pressure within to rise.
The minute blood-vessels supplying the
deeper layers of the skin at the base of
the corn thus expand and squeeze nerve
ends against the hardened epidermis
above, with the result that the corn ap-
“Huffed you, Jonesey!"
pears to throb with the heart-beats. The
same thing happens with rheumatic
joints, chronically inflamed tooth roots,
and foreign bodies, such as bullets, em-
bedded in the tissues.
*_* * *
“Tamornie”: My entry for bully-beef
of ancient vintage (B. 26/5/’37) is a
dozen tins purchased at Brock’s Creek
(N.T.) in 1915. Owing to a shortage of
supplies caused by a washaway on the
line they were disinterred from an accu-
mulation of old stock. The beef had
been tinned by a now-defunct Queens-
land meatworks, and was identified by
an old hand as portion of a consignment
which arrived in the Territory over 30
years earlier, during the building of the
Darwin-Pine Creek railway line. Though
a little more salty than the present-day
product, flavor and texture of the meat
were superior.
“Bill O’C.”: The in-
eradicable notion of
what constitutes “a
good speaker” (B.
26/5/’37) is well illus-
trated by the career of
now-long-dead Eben-
ezer Ward, of S.A.,
who was in his day
everything from actor
to Cabinet Minister,
and a robustious per-
former in all charac-
ters. Endowed with a
fruity voice and all the
tricks of ancient bel-
lowdrama, he could
speak more and say
less in a given time,
than most of his poli-
tical contemporaries put
together. At one time
his bucolic constituents
unitedly demanded his
resi g n a tion. Ward
promptly convened a
meeting of the electors,
and addressed them
with a torrent of ver-
biage fortified by wav-
ing arms and all the cliches in the
rhetorical basket. After about two
hours of the verbal tornado he had most
of those who had come prepared to ask
for his head in a sugarbag cheering as
though he were the returned conquering
hero. Later a member of the Opposition
took one of the renegades to task: “I
thought you said you were done with
him and all his works, and here you are
encouraging him!” “But,” said the con-
verted one, “he spoke so fair.” Wherein
lies the secret of most effective “public
speaking.”
* * * *
“Nikko”: “Jamwood” (B. 2/6/’37) is
right in concluding that the lady display-
ing a notice warning people that they
ride in her car at their own risk is cher-
ishing a fallacy. In a recent case where
a complainant was demanding damages
after having been bitten by a savage dog
behind the usual “Beware of the Dog”
placard, the magistrate remarked that
some people seemed to think a home-
made notice covered all risks. He pointed
out that a householder might put up a
notice reading “Anyone ringing this bell
will be shot at sight,” or “Beware of
the Axe,” but such precaution would
avail him not at all when the visitor’s
corpse was collected.
“J.0.L.”: Tell “Kirk” (B. 2/6/’37) that
plain olive oil is used at modern Corona-
tions. Queen Elizabeth complained that
the oil used at her crowning was “grease
and smelt ill,” and after her time the
unction was compounded, usually with
a pleasant scent, by an apothecary. King
James 11. was so pleased with the prepa-
ration made by his chemist that he
rewarded him with a fee of £2OO.
“I don't care what you say; I still think it's a birthmark!"
“Kingsland”: “Sandoatch’s” acquaint-
ance with Greek (B. 2/6/’37) must indeed
have been a nodding one if he wrote
Pernpe moron proteron on a military
school blackboard as the Hellenic equi-
valent of “Go to hell.” The first word,
of course, should be Pempse. When
writer was a small boy at an English
school the favorite jest to work on a
newcomer was to tell him to ask Jones
for the loan of his Pempse, etc. Jones
would say he was using his, but
referred the applicant to Brown. Brown
in turn was unable to oblige, and so on
until someone said “Translate it, you
fool.” Even new boys were apt to know
enough elementary Greek to realise that
the phrase meant, not the title of a book,
but simply “send the fool further.”
* * * *
“Chinkata”: Mention of “chop suey”
(B. 26/5/’37) impels me to remark that
the best foreign cooking, whether
Chinese, Italian, German or Greek, is
usually found in little out-of-the-way
holes where the boss himself is cook,
and which disdain advertisement. Chop
suey is a more generic word than our
term “stew.” Your simplest chop suey
(or darp suey) would be translated into
English as a mixture of steamed fresh
vegetables in season. Variations of the
dish are made with beef, chicken, fish,
duck, lobster, shrimp, pork. I have never
known beef, mutton or rabbit to be
served by a Chinese cook.
* * * *
“O. de V.”: The office typist came
back from her annual holidays with a
bucolic air, stories of riding hairy-heeled
farm-horses on the Hawkesbury and a
general air of familiarity with cows and
pigs, with which we had never asso-
ciated her before. After her previous
holidays we had been regaled with stories
of golf at Bowral and surfing at Coolan-
gatta, and (especially) boy friends she
had annexed at both places, Maisie being
that sort of girl. Evidence in support
of her yarns used to arrive at the office
for weeks afterwards in the shape of
flowers and boxes of chocolates, and, the
recipient being an unselfish soul, we
used to enjoy the fruits of her conquests.
After the Hawkesbury holiday we sadly
agreed that there would be no chocs,
this time, and that Maisie had chosen a
poor field in which to exercise her sex
appeal. We were wrong. Yesterday a
perspiring carrier stumbled into the
office, demanding Maisie, and dumped a
heavy burden at her feet. Her latest con-
quest didn’t think in terms of chocolates
—he had sent her a bag of pumpkins!
“Bastia”: The story of the Balearics
(B. 19/5/’37) is that of most Mediter-
ranean islands. Corsica, birthplace of
Napoleon and home of the boy who
stood on the burning deck, is more un-
French than the Balearic Islands are un-
Spanish. The earliest known inhabitants,
Ligurians from the Italian littoral barely
100 miles to the north, were chased out
by Greeks from Phocis. These gave way
to Etruscans from the Italian mainland
to the east, who in turn were absorbed
by the Roman Empire. Then came the
Vandals and the Goths. Charlemagne,
Emperor of Western Europe, included
the island in his dominions. Later the
Genoese (Ligurians) turned up again and
failed to make the Corsicans love them
after a stajr of three centuries. They
sold out to the French in 1768, the year
before Bonaparte was born at Ajaccio.
Since then the British have twice occu-
pied the island, once for over three years.
The most picturesque invader was a
German baron who landed in the latter
half of the eighteenth century with a
few ragged followers and big ideas.
Deftly using the opposing factions to
his purposes, he was crowned king. His
rule was recognised as long as it suited
the prominent families —about two to
three years. H.M. then fell upon lean
times. After knowing the inside of a
debtors’ prison in London, he died in
impoverished circumstances.
* * * *
“Shanghai”: Touching on that pro-
posal to alter the calendar, arranging,
among other things, for 26 working days
per month (B. 26/5/’37). Seafaring men
on Australian inter-State articles are paid
at a rate of so much per calendar month.
For fractional purposes each month is
assumed to have 30 days— i.e., they are
paid for 360 days per annum. Presum-
ably they work the other five days for
love of the life only.
* * * *
“Shorus”: At a suburban Mothers’
Meeting the other day the oldest lady
present related an amazing experience of
the lack of observation in most people.
Her home was a corner house, the
kitchen-window looking from the un-
fenced side directly into a fairly busy
roadway. Receiving word that her hus-
band was in hospital in the country, she
took her two children to a sister, re-
turned to the house, brought forth the
family hoard (a tin containing over 40
sovereigns), took enough for her fare and
expenses and hurried off to catch the
train. It dawned on her disagreeably
that she had not put the remainder of
the money away safely, but nothing
could be done about it. On return-
ing home a week later she walked round
the side of the house and through the
window saw the sovereigns scattered
over the kitchen table. The money was
intact, and, as far as she could discover,
though hundreds of passers-by had had
the opportunity, no one had even noticed
it was there.
(Continued on, page 50.)
QUERY.
“Youno- ]ady, dark, attractive, desires meet tall
gentleman, between 30 and 40 years, possessing own
teeth and a well-seasoned sense of humor.”
— “Argus” view mat. advt.
She wastes no words, you’ll notice, in outlining
Her assets; they are plain for all to read.
She’s a brunette in complexion and she’s young
(that’s no objection)
And attractive, too—all this is guaranteed.
But she stipulates, anent some unknown lover
Who’ll be privileged to buy her frocks and
hats,
He must have (it’s been well reasoned, this) a
thoroughly well-seasoned
Sense of humor and a genuine set of tats.
She isn't fussy otherwise, though clearly
She’ll tolerate no boor with manners crude.
Though she might have one that’s sporty he
must trot be known as “Shorty”;
As for age—well, he’s allowed some latitude.
She’s not worried over pelf or manly beauty,
Or whether he’s a worker or a drone;
But she’s keen that, in addition to a humorous
disposition,
He must have a set of ivories of his own.
What’s the motive, would you say, for these
conditions?
Does she want a bloke who’ll raise his voice
in song,
Or reveal his teeth a-gleaming while with joy
his phiz, is beaming
When affairs with madd’ning cussedness go
wrong?
Or are they just designed for her protection
(And his) when, with his molars slightly bent,
He’s prolific, still, of praises when the dinner’s
burnt to blazes
Or the cake turns out like flexible cement?
N.S.W.
QUAYEAY.


They’re Smooth
and they do not
affect your throat
CRAVENA
ARE MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS |
TIPPED CIGARETTE
m
■
€
THIS
R P N F R A T
10 for 9
20 for 16
D382
SPORTING
NOTIONS
“Having regard to all the circum-
stances” (an inch of type here omitted),
the Government at Canberra is opening
the gates to Mrs. Freer. “The circum-
stances” may be reduced to one word—
Gwydir.
Unemployed-relief taxation has now
been raging in N.S.W. for seven years,
and the Government can at last point
with pride to a “reproductive” undertak-
ing. Out-of-works in Bexley were em-
ployed, at its expense, in improving the
local park. The local council has now
asked it to license the pursuit of the tin
hare there.
Some Londoner gave Parkhill a dinner
at which the statesman whose only ex-
perience of war was gained when he was
generalissimo of the Liberal League
ladies’ auxiliaries held forth on his aero-
plane-building policy. A newspaper
report says he convinced two other
diners, unnamed, that Australian manu-
facture of British types was impracti-
cable. Obviously Tweedledum and
Tweedledee.
Menzies has a newspaper admirer who
asserts that the withdrawal of the cases
against the Communist party and the
Friends of the Soviet—still unexplained
—was a victory for him over Cabinet col-
leagues, who started the proceedings dur-
ing one of his trips abroad. If this is a
fact, said colleagues must have borrowed
the use of Bob’s name without Bob’s per-
mission, for Bob figured as plaintiff in
each suit. Closer friends of Bob than
the newspaper admirer can’t imagine
Bob suffering such an impertinence from
chaps like Parkhill and Paterson.
Labor has only three Senators, all
Queenslanders, and the three have to go
up for re-election this year. In ordinary
circumstances that would mean that their
party couldn’t get a majority in the
Senate even if it won two-thirds of the
seats in “another place”; as it happens,
20 Senators will have to be elected,
Arkins (N.S.W.) and Marwick (W.A.)
being nominees in dead men’s shoes. On
several occasions one party has captured
all the contested Senate seats, but it
seems unlikely to happen in 1936.
F. Smith intends to fix a maximum
driving day for road carriers to prevent
accidents. Under his present transport
legislation, the chief risk arises from pre-
occupied carriers worrying about how to
make the business pay Queensland license
fees—£9oo p.a., due monthly in advance,
for a three-ton truck averaging 100 miles
per day. Seemingly, Forgie has forgotten
that the report of a Royal Commission
on Transport is awaiting his return for
consideration.
Hundreds of acres of pilchards, the
fish which the Commonwealth Director
of Fisheries says should be earning mil-
lions yearly for us, have been moving
up the northern N.S.W. and south Queens-
land coasts. By next year it is probable
that they and their predatory followers
—tailor, jewfish, mackerel, tunny—will
be exploited on an extensive commercial
scale —by some of the thousands of tons
of new deep-sea fishing steamers now
being turned out of Japan’s shipyards
annually.
Local printers, property owners with
committee-rooms to let, unemployed
clerks and the like must hate this pre-
selection racket. In Woollahra (N.S.W.)
about 20 U.A.P. gentlemen, all reputedly
in comfortable circumstances, went after
the party nomination. Had there been
no bob-a-nob ballot, a dozen or more
would have come out in the good old
fashion, and Woollahra would have got
a sporting election and an untrammelled
choice, while at least £4OOO would have
been distributed in election expenses.
And why should a man get a well-paid
Parliamentary job and perks on the
cheap?
According to the Canberra correspon-
dent of Melbourne “Herald” and its asso-
ciated sheets, Stewart’s fellow-Represen-
tatives took his measure when he “threat-
ened trouble if the constitutional amend-
ments were not enlarged to include in-
dustrial powers” and “accepted a nebu-
lous promise that the Ministry would go
into the question ‘later.’ ” The Canberra
man opines that Parkhill would have
“had no difficulty in accounting for” the
other knight “in a political rough and
tumble.” He would be of a different
opinion if he lived in Warringah.
Since Gwydir there has been a marked
U.A.P. disposition to blame the Country
party for everything. The “new” Syd-
ney “D.T.” alleges that the C.P. “virtually
blackmailed” the U.A.P. “into acqui-
escence” in the exclusion of Mrs. Freer
“by threatening to resign as a body.”
There were 10 U.A.P. Ministers (with
Gullett) and four Cocky Ministers (two
AS ONE JARDINE TO ANOTHER.
“After the civil marriage of the Duke and Duchess of Windsor, the Rev. Alexander
Jardine performed a religious ceremony, denounced by the ‘Church Times’ as ‘this pretended
solemnisation.’”
“If you're having a spot of bother, old boy, you’re welcome to the services of
my jolly old friend Larwood.”
of them mere Assistants), and if the 10
let the four “blackmail them into acqui-
escence” they must be a weak-kneed lot.
The same paper credits the U.A.P. with
having “placed the book censorship on
a fairly liberal basis.”
No political books have been banned in
the last 20 months, and most of those
banned in the panic years of censorship
have been released, or will be soon.
“The panic years of censorship” were
Labor and U.A.P. years. A U.A.P.
Minister (White) has controlled the
censorship since Jan., 1932; the C.Ps.
didn’t enter the. Ministry till November,
1934.
Giving evidence in the basic-wage case
at Melbourne, a railway officer from
Sydney said his department would “show
a surplus of £30,000” by the end of the
month. “Show” may be right; but, as
£BOO,OOO of tax-money is called railway
receipts and the department is having the
use of £3,300,000 of 4 per cent, money
free of interest (this was admitted), the
surplus will be mere hot air, not hard
cash. And the. department is resorting
to some very mean economies to produce
even the hot air. It has cut tradesmen’s
wages, and the report of a masked-bandit
case in which the day’s takings were
stolen revealed that it had left a North
Shore station under the care of a junior
porter.
Men on sustenance in Victoria are get-
ting a young-age pension until they can
qualify for the old-age pension. This
pungent statement of the. case has been
made in a public address by the officer in
charge of sustenance. He added that
there are 22,000 Victorians drawing sus-
tenance, that so far from unemployment
having gone back to normal “a new nor-
mality of \2\ p.c. seems to have been
established,” and that the problem of the
men who are neither on relief works nor
sustenance remains.
In the present condition of Australia
there is nothing so clear to observers other
than politicians (if politicians ever are
observant) as that keeping men on susten-
ance or putting them on relief works, fed
with tax-money or loans or both, has
become a hopeless palliative. Something
else must be tried. The Bulletin’s idea
from the time when prices began to
move upward was that employers should
be encouraged to give work and to train
young people in productive callings by
being allowed, as it were, to contract
out of unemployed relief-taxation —
offered an abatement of tax for every
person put on the payroll after a given
date. No doubt the thing would be
abused, and some employers would bene-
fit more than others, but immeasurably
worse abuses and anomalies are occur-
ring now.
N.S.W. shire councillors at their annual
conference in Sydney fell heavily on the
Stevens-Spooner scheme of unemployed-
relief per shire loan-drunk. They have had
no illusions about the Stevens-Spooner
brand of “statesmanship” since the com-
monsense small-holdings plan they drew
up and undertook to supervise was tossed
into one of the multitude of Government
sewers, after the farce of putting it into
an enactment had been played out. Had
the Government been in earnest, thou-
sands of country unemployed might have
been taken off the dole ; also, the thing
might have developed into something big
in the closer-settlement line. As it is,
landless men in country towns have
started a revolt which bodes ill for
Minister Buttonhole and other Cockies.
The Labor people in Cook (N.S.W.)
have refused to sanction another struggle
for the party nomination, bestowed on
one Sheehan when the. present member
was expelled. This means that Garden
will have to take a long farewell of the
Federal Parliament. Cook, created in
1906, has had three members, Catts, Riley
and Garden. The party organisation has
dished the lot.
Mr. Have-a-heart, of Alberta, “scaled”
its creditors on June 1 for the third time
in three months. “Demand your national
dividend” was the cry on which Have-
a-heart was elected. Albertans who hold
Alberta bonds have received neither divi-
dend nor interest.
A. P. Herbert, who made “Punch” his-
tory by becoming an M.P. (Thackeray,
the greatest of “Punch” writers, was a
rejected candidate), has steered through
the Commons a measure that adds deser-
tion for three years and insanity for five
years, also habitual cruelty, to the legal
grounds for divorce. The House approved
of the insanity clause by almost as great
a majority as the N.S.W. Assembly cast
against it. Herbert’s main trouble will
be to get the other House to approve.
There are two archbishops and 24 bishops
in that Chamber and a lot of High
Church peers.
The Sydney Government has again
been reminded that it spends £4,000,000
on education and £25,000 on its Public
Library. An “insignificant sub-depart-
ment of the Department of Instruc-
tion,” the library is housed in a building
that was pronounced “unsuitable w and
quite inadequate” 50 years ago ; it can
neither accommodate visitors decently
nor supply non-readers’ legitimate literary
requirements ; Minister after Minister has
been fertile of promises but barren of
performance, “because there are no votes
in it.” All this was said last week by
the Public Librarian, with the. rider that
he could say a lot more if public ser-
vants’ tongues were not tied.
When Westralia’s richest pastoral areas
and part of its wheat belt were drought-
stricken, the Commonwealth Grants
Commission had the annual subvention
reduced from £BOO,OOO to £500,000 —
£lOO,OOO less than the recommended
grant to Tasmania, which, with little more
than half the population, had no drought
and was doing comparatively well. Now
that the drought has broken and sub-
stantial goldmining shows are about to
reach the producing stage, a massive
addition to the Westralian grant is ex-
pected at Canberra. It is the kind of
thing people have grown to expect of
commissions.
“El Verdugo’s” naval note:
It is alleged on behalf of the flying men who
bombed the Deutschland (Spaniards, accord-
ing to one account; Russians, the French
“Gringoire” asserts) that they thought it was a
Spanish cruiser, the Baleares. The Baleares
has a freak funnel, divided at deck-level into
two sections, and two ordinary masts. The
Deutschland has one slim funnel well amid-
ships and no normal masts —only a forward
fighting top. It carries its aeroplanes forward
of the funnels; the Baleares aft. Add to which
that the Deutschland has single-decker triple
9in. turrets and six llin. guns; the Baleares
has double-decker two-gun turrets, Bin. guns
and a bridge, and fighting bridges much higher
than her funnel and at least twice the size of
the Deutschland’s fighting headquarters. Any
airman who could mistake one ship for the
other would be capable of kissing a Zulu in
mistake for his aunt.


A STRICTLY PRIVATE WEDDING.


The Richardson Chain Hotel
1
il
THE
HOTEL
LONDON
99 Elizabeth St.,
(next Collins St.)
Melbourne
Hot and Cold
Water, Telephone
and Central Heat-
ing, Reading Lamp
to Every Bedroom. '
MELBOURNE'S MOST
CENTRAL HOTEL.
RATES PER DAY.
Room and Meals .... from 12/6
Room and Breakfast . . from 7/6
EVERY MARRIED MAN
should be insured. A few shillings a week put away regularly now will buy a surprisingly
large amount of security for your dependants in the event of your death. By taking out an
endowment policy you can ensure against want in your own and your wife’s old age.
Australasian
CATHOLIC
Assurance
CO., IjTD.,
has ample funds to meet claims, and is now paying liberal bonuses
in both the Industrial and Ordinary Departments. For review of
actuary’s report f,ee “Bulletin,” 13/6/’34.
AH Classes of Assurances Effected.
Head Office: Comer King and York Streets, Sydney.
E. J. Mooney, Managing Director.
P. J. Ryan, Secretary.
Branch Offices:
VICTORIA: 475 Collins Street, Melbourne; C. A. Adams, Resident Secretary.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: 29 King William Street, Adelaide; F. C. Lock, Resident Secretary.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Warwick House, St. George’s Terrace, Perth; F. J. Smith,
Resident Secretary.
District Offices and Agencies Throughout the States.
The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Capital Authorised .. ..£1,250,000
Capital Issued .. .. 1,250,000
Capita] Paid Up .. .. •• £1,250,000
Reserve Fund .. .. • • .. 1,000,000
(Used partly in business and partly
in Government and approved
Securities.)
Reserve Liability of Shareholders ..£1,250,000
Also 106 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.3.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad
collected and proceeds remitted. All usual
banking business transacted.
PERSONAL ITEMS
Dr. Sheehan, Roman Catholic Co-
adjutor-Archbishop of Sydney since
1922, whose position carried the right of
succession to Archbishop Kelly, who is
now 87, has unexpectedly resigned. In
a simple statement he says there were
spiritual reasons for his resignation, that
he will visit relatives in California, jour-
ney to Ireland and probably end his days
in Rome. His works in Gaelic are text-
books in Irish schools ; in Australia he
labored in the cause of education.
Lieut.-Commissioner William Dalziel
came from Canada to take charge of
the Salvation Army in N.S.W. and
Queensland, succeeding “Fighting Mac”
McKenzie, who has gone to China. The
The New Commissioner.
new commissioner has seen 33 years’ ser-
vice. with the Army, some of" them in
France.* The Army bands will step it out
during his regime. He is a bandmaster
himself.
H. H. Rouse, new g.m. of the Pro-
ducers and Citizens’ Co-operative Assur-
ance Company at Sydney, brings a wide
range of experience to the job. He was
previously a branch manager with
Colonial Mutual Life for 25 years in
the various States of Australia and
Maoriland, and, more recently, in South
Africa.
Hartwell Conder, who served Tas-
mania well as Government mining engi-
ner and examiner in mining at the Uni-
versity, is dead, at 67, in Zeehan, the
centre of many of his activities in a
busy and eminently useful life. A
Sussex man, he was educated in Ger-
many and Cambridge University. After
his retirement from the Mines Depart-
ment, he settled at Wynyard, where he
interested himself in agricultural experi-
ments and in beekeeping, but mining
called him again. Conder wrote well-
informed articles and paragraphs in a
beautiful “fist”— The Bulletin knows,
for it published many of them.
B. J. McKenna, who had been Queens-
land Director of Education since 1922,
retired in December and died last week
at 67. He had been in the service since
1884, and had filled a job in every grade.
When war broke out he was on Joan to
the Papuan Administration to inspect
schools at Moresby and Samarai, and
was on the Matunga when she nosed
home with lights out under the shadow
of the Scharnhorst and Gneisenau.
“Uramao”: A. H. Cockayne, Director-
General of Agriculture in M.L., who col-
lected an 1.5.0. at Coronation time, is
the son of scientist Dr. Leonard Cock-
ayne. Born in 1880 and educated at
Canterury Uni. College, where he be-
came assistant-biologist, A.H.C. held the
Department of Agriculture biologist job
from 1900 to 1921.
Major Charles B. Airey was one of the
most important figures in N.S.W. mili-
tary matters before the Commonwealth
took over. A British army man, he came
to Australia in 1875, hitched up with
the volunteer artillery, served with the
London contingent and from 1885 io
1896, when he retired, was a big factor
in the training of the volunteers. He was
86 when he died the other day.
Carl Dickfos, dead at Wynnum (Q.)
at 87, had hoped to live long enough to
have 150 descendants. He failed by one,
leaving nine children, 60 grandchildren
and 80 great-grandchildren. A native of
Central Europe, Carl arrived in Queens-
land 72 years ago. He was a pioneer of
the Harrisville district, farming there for
nearly half a century.
George L. Goudie, Vic. Min-
ister of Public Works, who has
just been returned to the Leg.
Council, has had 24 years’ un-
contested Parliamentary repre-
sentation of the N.-Western
Province. When first nomi-
nated for the Leg. Council 18
years ago, his opponent with-
drew. Goudie has been a
Cabinet Minister for nine years.
“Christchurch”: Most remarkable
thing about Arthur Donnelly’s chair-
manship of the Bank of New Zealand
(B. 26/5/’37) is that he is the only man
to be appointed to an important post by
the Forbes-Coates coalition and re-
appointed by the Savage Cabinet. His
ability, honesty and fairness are such
that Labor and employers readily agreed
on him as arbitrator after the bitter
Christchurch tramway strike of 1932.
Latest Australian Associated Press staff
appointment takes Trevor Ross, at
present on the sub-editorial staff of the
Sydney “D.T.,” to London in July. A
Maorilander who served his cadetship on
Wellington’s “Times” (dec.), he was later
with the Auckland “Herald,” the Wel-
lington “Dominion” and the Christchurch
“Press.” He was brought to Australia by
the Melbourne “Star” in 1933 ; when it
fizzled a year ago, he was its feature-
editor.
So many well-grown boys exalted their
ages in order to enlist when the war
came, that it would be rash to say more
than that Arthur Conrad Keen, for whom
the “Last Post” has sounded, was one of
the youngest on Gallipoli. He enlisted
When a couple of months under 15 years
of age. In France he was three times
wounded while serving with the 13th Bat-
talion. The effects of this made him a
frequent inmate of Randwick (N.S.W.)
Hospital, where he died —another of the
men the long-finished war is still killing.
New Surveyor-General for N.S.W.,
succeeding H. B. Mathews, is Max Allen,
who has been in the Lands for 30 years.
Allen was a major (engineers) in the
Big Rumpus, and picked up a military
cross, besides being “mentioned.” He
had four years in London on loan to
the Commonwealth Government when
they were talking of migration and land
settlement ten years ago.
Corks popped the night it was known
that Ernest Davis, the brewer-Mayor of
Auckland (M.L.), had collected a Coro-
. nation knighthood. Many North Island
hotels are in Davis’s hands, so there
would be no shortage of material for
the celebration. Although his financial
interests are on land, Davis’s heart is
in the sea. Every summer week-end
finds him sailing in the Hauraki Gull
aboard the Morewa, the superbly-fitted
schooner-yacht J. W. A. McArthur built
for himself, and he is to spend part of
this winter cruising among Pacific
islands, with Fiji as headquarters.
William Goodman, who has celebrated
his thirtieth year as head of the metro-
politan tramway service, Adelaide, came
from London as a young engineer to
work on the construction of Sydney’s
George-street trams. Next he was con-
sulting engineer to Auckland City Cor-
poration ; then Adelaide imported him
to transform its old horse-tramway sys-
tem to electricity. In S.A. he has gained
a knighthood. In addition to his tram-
ways position he is chairman of the
Housing Trust and a member of the
University Councli.
When he first entered the Victorian Leg.
Assemb. in 1894 James Hume-Cook was
27, and the youngest member. He was
member for Bourke in the first Federal
Parliament; nine years later Labor’s
Frank Anstey won the seat from him. The
Bourke industrial area strengthened his
interest in tariffs, and when the Industries
Protection League was formed in 1919
Hume-Cook was appointed tariff-com-
mittee secretary. After the Tariff Board
was established the league continued its
work on behalf of manufacturing in-
HUME-COOK, Old Politician and
Lifelong Protectionist.
terests, and attacks on the Common-
wealth’s protectionist policy were answered
from the Melbourne office. Cook’s work
as a publicist was eulogised the other
day when Melbourne interests shouted
him a dinner to mark his eighteenth year
as league secretary.
Popular W. W. Hill, now in his sixth
year as president of Tattersall’s Club,
Sydney, was the star forward of New-
town Rugby Union club and a State in-
ternational representative 30 years ago.
He has represented Australia at two
Rugby conferences in England, but the
greatest compliment he has received was
when, after refereeing the matches be-
tween Leland-Stanford and California
"BILLY” HILL, an impression by
Frith.
Universities in 1912-13, he was invited to
make it an annual affair. Once, a long-
distance pillar of the Sydney Swimming
Club, he nowadays wields a hefty stick
at golf at Mona Vale. He is g.m. of J.
McMahon’s carrying business.
One of Australia’s youngest knights,
Stanton Hicks, the Maorilander who is
Professor of Human Physiology and
Pharmacology at Adelaide University,
has packed a lot of work into his 45
years. Early in the war he worked with
Professor Inglis, of Cambridge, on the
synthesis of chemical war necessities for
the British Government, but afterwards
enlisted with the M.L. forces. After the
war he was a Beit Research Fellow at
Cambridge. This year he delivers the
Bancroft oration in Brisbane. Bancroft
was an old-time Brisbane doctor who
did much of the basic work on filaria,
the mosquito-borne disease which pro-
duces elephantiasis.
Dead in Melbourne, Lady Kellett, one
of the few baronets’ ladies who have
filled the post of mayoress in Australia
—her husband was a member of the
Kew (Melbourne) Council for 40 years.
She was born in Richmond (Vic.) 81
years ago, and her son, who holds the
title, lives at Roseville, Sydney, on the
North Shore line, which is becoming
thick with baronets ; another, relative of
Anthony Trollope, lives at Wollstone-
craft, and Hugh Poynter, Kipling’s and
Baldwin’s cousin, is at Wahroonga.
Hot favorite for the R.A.S. inland
fodder conservation grand championship
as soon as the entries were announced,
Ken Gault, of Lynwood, Trundle
(N.S.W.), duly romped home. This big,
quiet-mannered westerner has but a small
property in a district not considered par-
ticularly safe, but he has made it pay
handsomely. He has at least six R.A.S.
championship trophies, and the latest
grand championship is his second. He
was one of the first to prove that lucerne,
properly sown and managed, would do
well in dry areas.


mmr
r
m
llillP ■ \
55®
m
WW •■ ■
ii
■
-
\v
s*
1
m
m*
N EVER HAS A CAR BEEN SO
ENTHUSIASTICALLY ACCEPTED
AND THEN-SO COMPLETELY PROVED
e.a**? cUto a...
Wm
siiili
M' w VTI illipw T
Xm -iJR JR. JBL JR JR_i Jyi
N.8.HM.1.
W. AUSTRALIA:
SKIPPER BAILEY MOTOR CO. LTD.
900 Hay Street
Perth, W.A.
N.S.W.:
JOHN McGRATH LTD.
155 Elizabeth Street
Sydney, N.S.W.
VICTORIA:
OVERSEAS MOTORS PTY. LTD.
222 Exhibition Street
Melbourne, C. 1., Vic.
S. AUSTRALIA:
WAYMOUTH MOTOR CO. LTD.
42 Waymouth Street
Adelaide, S.A.
TASMANIA:
D. L. HOLLIS MOTORS
York Street
Launceston, Tas.
QUEENSLAND: -
john McGrath ltd.
358 Wickham Street
Valley, Brisbane, Qld.
Wo
rid Exporters
RooteS
LIMITED
evons h i r e
H
o u
se, Piccadilly, London


ABORIGINALITIES
BEENLEIGH RUM "MINE TINE TINK IT BEST"
“Bert”: The store in a big W.Q. town
was holding a sale, and bargains were
numerous. Old Maggie Murphy badly
wanted some of them, but, as she’d put
some. 74 years behind her and a few
hundred other ladies wanted bargains,
too, it seemed that she would be a wee
bit late in the rush. To her aid, as soon
as the sale started, came the ringing of
the fire-bell, and, profiting by the inevit-
able country-town reaction, Maggie was
for a while the store’s only customer.
It might have been pure coincidence that
her small grandchild Micky was ringing
the bell.
“Gigas”: Having been much exposed
to kookaburras I naturally thought my
knowledge of them, like Sam Weller’s
of London, was “extensive and peculiar.”
My ignorance has been revealed by read-
ing an article in the German “Das
Magazin” by a Glasgow professor named
Harvey. Under the title “The. Balance of
Nature” Harvey tells, among other things,
how “a certain giant bird” used to annoy
Australians “withv its shrieks,” being
known as the “laughing donkey” in con-
sequence. The enraged Australians prac-
tically exterminated the bird, only to find
“a mysterious and alarming increase in
the numbers of poisonous snakes. The
number of people killed annually by
snakes enormously increased and farmers
were losing a quarter of their livestock.”
Realising that the extermination of the
giant kingfisher was responsible, the Gov-
ernment protected it. “One of these great
birds kills normally upwards of 20 snakes
a day, cutting to bits those it doesn’t
eat.” As a result of its useful work
“people now stand the disagreeable noise
it makes rather than the presence of
poisonous snakes.” Ah ha ha, hoo, hoo,
hoo, quah uck, uck uck, hoo, hoo,
a-r-r-r-g-h!
* * * #
“East St.”: When the old-time miners
at Walhalla (Vic.) wanted to construct
a sportsground there was not enough
level ground available in the narrow, tor-
tuous gully in which the old town is
situated. Nothing daunted, they gathered
up picks and shovels, climbed eight or
nine hundred feet up a hill and levelled
off the top of it. A great job they made
of it, too, and some rattling good sports
were held there. A zigzag footpath con-
nected town and ground, and many who
negotiated this track going up were quite
incapable, of doing so on the return jour-
ney. Their more sober cobbers hauled
them down in state on bushy saplings,
but I remember one well-tanked miner
scornfully refusing such aid. He rolled
down, and with the usual drunk’s luck
finished his journey with nothing more,
than a few scratches.
* * * V
“Werrimee”: King Burraga, who
rules over the remnant of the once-great
Illawarra tribe, was a disappointed
monarch when he wasn’t invited to the
big shivoo in London, and more so when
no Coronation medal came his way to
jingle with the regal plate. To white
people Burraga is known as Joe Ander-
son ; his tin palace is at Salt Pan Creek,
near Peakhurst (N.S.W.). Joe styles him-
self the real king of Australia, and
regards the claims to royalty of all other
chiefs right to the far north and the
islands as presumptuous. The Burragas,
he says, go back to ages before white
men came to Australia, ahd his grand-
father, said to have been 130 years old
at his death, met Captain Cook at Kur-
nell. When his father, King Hughie,
died in 1928 Joe abdicated in favor of
his brother George, but George died in
1930, and Joe had to take the brass plate,
after all. This king of a dying race is
on the dole, and collects gum-tips to
augment it.
* * * *
“F 34”: At a Queensland bacon-fac-
tory I saw several pigs with 15 pairs of
ribs instead of the orthodox 14. Accord-
ing to the slaughtering inspector pigs
thus equipped represent over one per
cent. This isn’t altogether surprising,
for with the demand for extra length in
bacon pigs the boar or sow with the
extra pair of slats would naturally be
kept for breeding and have, a good
chance of passing on the characteristic
to its progeny, possibly that extra pair
will one day become “standard equip-
ment.”
sic s}c * Si:
“James W.”: The wildest “escapes”
ever perpetrated by film deceivers pale
before that of a deckhand on a N.Q.
fishing launch. With trolling lines out
for kingfish, he was caught by the ankle
in the slack of a line when a big fish
struck and was yanked overboard. The
fish swerved, hauling him under the boat,
and the propeller severed, less than six
inches from his foot, the tangled loop
that was holding him.
* * * *
“Harry N.”: The. old invitation, fre-
quently heard on sawmills, to “come out
on the sawdust heap and see what you
can do” will soon be a thing of the past;
sawmillers must now dispose of the dust,
either as fuel or by burning it in a speci-
ally-built retort. It’s a pity, for the saw-
dust heap was frequently the. only level
place around the mill, and, apart from
serving as a stadium, provided a com-
mon meeting ground for the hands after
work. It made an ideal playground for
the kids, too, and they at least will regret
its passing. In any case, a sawmill with-
out a sawdust heap doesn’t seem right
somehow.
* * * *
“Atrax”: Generally speaking, ants
score off spiders in the perpetual struggle
which goes to the getting of the daily
food. They eat the new-hatched
youngsters, some species attack adults,
others tear open the egg-sacs and de-
vour the contents. But one Australian
spider reverses the position by laying
traps for ants, luring them in and eat-
ing them. These ingenious little ladies
—their boy-friends are as yet unrecog-
nised —spin a soft silk bag beside an
ant food-track, and sit in the entrance
waving their front legs. When an in-
quisitive ant wanders along to investi-
gate, she seizes it, sucks it dry and dumps
the remains outside. If she is inside, and
the ant gate-crashes the entrance, it wan-
ders about, unable to get out, apparently
under the influence of some kind of dope
in the atmosphere within, until she is
ready for a snack. Except for the fact
that working ants are all old maids, it
sounds rather like the things boys used
to be warned against when visiting
Sydney.
* * * *
“Roly”: “It’s all a matter o’ tempera-
ment, this drinkin’,” said Bill. “Some’ll
carry their liquor one way, some an-
other. Look at Tiger ’ere. —if ’e takes
more than a dozen of Bull Morrison s
poison up at the pub, ’e’s ready to stoush
up the whole damn’ bar. Smiler there
wants to weep all over yer, an’ tell yer
all about ’is poor ole ma. Sid won’t
fight, but ’e’ll argue an’ argue, mostly
about nothin’. Tom’s another ; ’e’ll talk
all night if yer can’t stop ’im by gettin’
’im ’ome an’' dumpin’ ’im. ’Erb’s jest
the opposite; ’e won’t say a bloomin’
thing ; jest stands an’ mopes an’ drinks,
lack wants to be like ’ltler an’ Musso., an'
tell yer ’ow ’e’d run things. Most of the
other blokes in the camp react funny,
too, in their own ways, when they’ve
wrapped ’emselves round some grog.
Some laugh like blazes at anythin’ at
all; some can’t keep on their flamin’ pins ;
some” But just then the five o’clock
whistle blew, and there was a general
scatter for the pub. I didn’t see Bill till
I went to bail him out next morning.
Bill hadn’t said anything about himself,
but he had a corking black eye.
* * * *
“Sykes”: Neither beating, peppering
nor hosing will part a pair of fighting
bulldogs once they have settled to a
death grip. All additional pain thus
applied they credit to their opponent and
grip the harder. And they hang on
until one dies. Here’s the recipe for
parting, bequeathed to me by my old
“Hey, w'era's y'r 'atchet?"
man. himself a dog fancier from the
north country. Each dog’s owner takes
a firm grip with both hands on the loose
neck scruff. Then two ring men, with
fingernails kept specially long for the
job, nip each of the fighters simultan-
eously on the soft skin just at the crutch
of a hind leg. The sharpness of this
nip leads Bully to think he is being
attacked from behind and, loosening his
hold, he turns to meet this fresh assail-
ant. He is held, however, by his owner,
whom, despite his fury, he will never in
such circumstances bite.
* * * *
, „ tq r £ r
Mulga Mick : Bought for £6 at
Bridgewater (Tas.) sale m 1925, a 14-
hands shaggy-haired pony was the best
packhorse investment since minerals
were first discovered among the rugged
hills of the Apple Isle. He did his three
trips a week from Fitzgerald, the head
of the Derwent Valley railway, over a
mountainous track of 25 miles to Adams-
field osmiridium diggings without missing
a trip for a period of six years, carrying
a pack of 1501 b. of stores. He gener-
ally led the pack string, and did the out-
ward trip in about 4\ hours. In all he
travelled over 46,000 miles and carried
over 60 tons of stores. As the packing
charges were 3d. a pound he earned over
£l6OO, most of which was profit, as he
nearly paid for his feed by carrying pas-
sengers on the return trip at £1 a nob.
He was a good hack, and holds the
record for the return trip with a lady
passenger—under three hours. He is
now in a hawker’s cart.
“Sky Boy”: The kangaroos of Cape
York have developed an instinctive habit
when pursued of racing across acres of
low-lying grass peculiar to those regions.
It is called locally “sneeze” grass. The
pursuing dingo has to halt every few
yards with sharp 'attacks of hay fever.
* * * *
“Mesmer”: One thing a horse can’t
stand is for a man to gaze fixedly and
point a finger at it. It will shuffle its
feet, try to evade your gaze and, unless
it’s so dopey that it doesn’t care if an
earthquake bursts under it, it will pro-
bably charge you.
* * * *
“Pukeko”: The Felix-the-Cat tree, on
Gillies Highway (B. 26/5/’37) can’t have
been truer to life than a piece of Nature’s
fooling that visitors to M.L. are shown
on the road south of Kaikoura. As the
car sweeps round a bend on the hill, the
driver warns, “Look, a moa!” Only
wind and waywardness twisted this ridge-
topping tree into shape, but it is a better
image of the huge extinct bird than any
hedge-trimming artist could achieve.
* * * *
“Pharaoh”: Old Moses slipped when
he left bees off his list of plagues. When
all the outside waters dried during a
drought in the Charters Towers district
(N.Q.) the wild bees found the bags hang-
ing under the verandahs of ’the station
homestead. All the forest country there-
abouts is chock-full of English bees gone
wild, and real brumbies they are. They
came in their thousands, and it was use-
less trying to hide the bags from them.
It was astonishing, too, how rapidly they
would rot a patch out of the canvas. A
week after they’d selected a lick-hole
that bit would ooze water continuously,
to be lapped up by those breasting the
bar ; a month at most would see a bit as
big as half a crown fall clean out.
* * * *
“Murrungurry”: What attracts light-
ning to certain trees nobody seems to
know. Of dozens I have seen struck
nearly all were eucalypts. Abos. like to
make for a wild apple-tree, as lightning,
they say, has never been known to strike
this forest hardwood. It is one of their
sacred trees, a beautiful umbrageous
giant of the Angophoras that in season is
crowned with scented blossoms. If no
bush apples are near, Binghi gets under
a softwood that has a thick, bushy top,
or alongside a log, which his weather
oracles claim is never hit. Another
safety spot is in a thick scrub or jungle,
I don’t remember ever seeing a jungle
tree struck.
* * * *
“Frank Motocar”: If you fancy catch-
ing snakes as a hobby, don’t approach
within striking distance if the wriggler
has its foreparts bent in an “S” shape.
Seize it when it lies flat and straight out.
Greatest danger is when the reptile raises
a swaying this position Joe
doesn't ntake a hissing sound with mouth
w j(j e open ; only when flat on the ground
anc j mouth shut can this sound be heard,
Two little spurts of dust will show that
air is being blown through the nostrils,
* * * *
“Moe”: Tell “Finn” (B. 5/5/’37) that
if he wants to raise young wild cherry-
trees, all he need do is to take some of
the nuts home and plant them an inch
deep in loamy soil, taking care to keep
them away from artificial manure. The
fruit of Exocarpus, like that of the straw-
berry, bears its seeds on the outside, and
it is a prime favorite with many birds ;
hence the finding of seedlings in unex-
pected places. Wild cherry, by the way,
makes clinking tool handles, the timber
standing up to heavy work much better
than that of spotted gum. I know a
chap who has a wild-cherry handle in
an axe, said axe (and handle) having
been in daily use for over six years.
CHANGE.
It isn’t lovely now; the green-hood orchids
And wild black bees long since have left the
place;
The clematis puts no dainty arms about it,
Or drapes the boughs with loops of starry
lace.
To-day there is no glimpse of tunnels leading
To some lost fairyland that we would fain
Go seeking through the petal-powdered brancnes
That wove their spells along the tea-tree lane.
Gone are the trees. A growth of raddled
houses
Their blatant squares of brick and mortar
raise.
The slippered housewife sweeps the small
verandah,
The careworn toiler weeds on holidays.
No longer there the bright-eyed possum clam-
bers;
No miracle of moss beneath the feet;
The smell of petrol taints the morning breezes.
They call the humdrum highway Seaview-
street.
And yet last night I walked in an enchantment,
And every well-remembered bush and bough
In friendly voices seemed to whisper round me,
Saying “You loved us then, we love you
now.”
By what, I wondered, was it all recaptured?
And then I saw, its breaking waves down-
curled,
The sea still whiten where the roadway ended—
The one unchanging thing in all the world.
VICTORIA.
L. K. N. ALFLATT.


“Twenty-seven”: Those Australian
black swans at Whipsnade (London) Zoo
(B. 19/5/’37) were not actuated by any
desire to be in the fashion when they
produced their March brood. Those in
Sydney Botanical Gardens do their best
to produce two families per annum, one
in spring and one in autumn. An Eng-
lish March must appear to these birds
just as inclement as November.
* * * *
“Sea Prowler”: Nature must have
been in a fiendish mood when she in-
vented the sea louse. Belonging to the
crustaceans, but not unlike a true louse
in shape, it averages to the size of a
broad bean. Ghostly white, with tiny,
beady eyes, it takes up its habitation on
the fish’s tongue, being possessed of
hooked legs which, once they take hold,
never voluntarily leave go. I’ve caught
large members of the sweep and bream
families with as many as six of these
lice, large to diminutive, forming a queue
from the tip of the tongue to the top of
the gullet. Taking toll of all food caught,
they grow until they entirely fill their
host’s mouth, rendering it impossible for
any food to be swallowed, and thus
finally bringing about the demise of their
lodging and themselves.
% 5k #
“Wah”: Wiregrass came over to our
place the night of the Coronation broad-
cast, but, owing to his deafness, we had
to repeat most of the announcer’s re-
marks. “They’re giving the King his
“Did y ’ find out?”
”Y airs. ’Undred quid f' an arm an ’undred an' twenty if y' bust y' leg!”
spurs now!” someone shouted. “Cripes,”
said Wiregrass, “he must be. getting ready
to ride home!”
* * * *
“Eureka”: For caution in gathering
food the wasp takes some beating. I
watched one catch a big black spider,
give it an injection and then stand otf
watching while the spider curled up,
apparently dead. After that the wasp
waited a full five minutes, and even then
administered a second injection before it
picked up its victim and flew away.
$ * $ $
“Hanko”: I’m aware of the steadfastly
held bush belief that a goanna will rush
for a certain obscure herb after being
bitten by a snake (B. 26/5/’37), and,
though it takes some hardihood to spurn
a so-established article of mulga faith,
I’ll put forward timidly (and from the
safety of the middle of The Bulletin)
my own theory, which is that all cold-
blooded creatures are immune to the
venom of snakes. A blue-tongued lizard
gave me the hint of this.
' * * * *
“R.W.D.”: The oriole or fig bird,
familiar to owners of mulberry-trees in
eastern N.S.W. and Queensland, is an-
other of Australia’s feathered mimics. I
have heard him impersonate in a con-
tinuous monologue a starling, magpie,
butcher-bird, brown hawk, rosella, green-
leek and soldier bird, as well as the
chuckle with which the kookaburra
prefaces his laugh.
* * * *
“Mandipa”: Optimism? My neighbor,
a share-cockie, put in an application for
a block. There were likely to be about
500 other applicants, but one day I
found him in the smithy making wedges.
“You know,” he said, “there is likely to
be a lot of timber on that block, and I’m
not going to waste it. I’ll split it up and
keep it for the future.” The wedges are
still in the corner of the smithy.
“Brach”: New Caledonia is the latest
country to curse the day it imported
foreign deer. Introduced years ago from
Sumatra, they number some 60,000
to-day, doing immense damage, to crops,
Attempts to thin them out have proved
useless, though every plantation keeps its
hunter and a pack of dogs, the Govern-
ment issuing free cartridges to anyone
“ That's the trouble with Joe —always gets too Wrapped up in his work!
who wishes to hunt the pest. Recently
the Government imported from Sydney
two dogs which, it is hoped, will found
a dynasty that will help in getting rid of
the deer. The dogs were Scottish deer-
hounds, and, of course, the Sydney press,
describing their departure, called them
“staghounds,” which is tantamount to
calling a bull-terrier a beagle.
ij:
“E.A.8.”: How’s this for speed, style
and strength? At Wood’s Flat (S.A.) an
Alsatian always rides on his owner’s
motor-lorry when an inspection of the
property is being made. While they were
alongside a sft. fence a fox running on
the other side was noticed. Instantly the
dog leapt from the lorry, grabbed the fox
by the neck bounded over the fence and,
with the fox still between his teeth,
sprang back on to the moving lorry,
all in a matter of seconds. Could any
other type of dog have done it?
* * * *
“Puffinus”: A rare sight in a sub-
tropical sky was recently on view for a
brief space at Kingaroy (Q.) —a mock
sun, centred in a glowing arc of red,
yellow and brilliant green. Common
enough in ice latitudes, mock suns are
caused by the sun shining through a thin
layer of cloud composed of ice or snow
crystals. The rays are refracted by the
hexagonal, vertical-sided crystals and
focused to two bright spots (parhelia,
as scientists call them) 22deg. to right
and left of the true sun. The color arc
is a prismatic effect due to the same
cause. Mock suns are only seen with
cirrus (feathery) clouds. In the Kin-
garoy instance one of the parhelia was
not visible on account of the cloud ex-
tending insufficiently far to obtain the
full refractive effect.
* * * *
“Buzfuz”: The title of a recent prize-
winning novel, The Street of the Fishing
Cat, must have set many wondering what
a fishing cat was. A smaller edition of
the leopard, it inhabits the Malay States,
living on the fish it catches. Particularly
ferocious, too. A couple of years ago
one terrorised a village during a fish scar-
city and carried off four native babes
before it was killed. ,
* * * *
“Carmi”: On moonless nights in early
June the celestial emu and the celestial
blackfellow hold pride of place in the
southern sky. Both figures are formed
by the starless patches of sky, and both
have the Sack of Coals, next door to the
Southern Cross, as a head. The emu
stretches down to Scorpio in the south-
east, and the blackfellow, whose exploits
resemble those of Orion, is a huge run-
ning figure, apparently travelling from the
west.
Hi * * *
“G.S.L.”: Apparently most people
think that the tail is the only edible part
of the ’roo, and then only as the basis
of soup. There are many ways of cook-
ing a ’roo tail, one of the best being to
hang it for two days and then place it,
with the hide still on, in hot ashes for
six hours. It is then as easy to peel as a
banana, and the meat will be cooked to
perfection. Another way is to skin it,
joint it, put it in water and simmer
gently for four hours. The bones are
then lifted out, half a pound of sliced
’roo steak is added, and the pot is put
back to simmer for another three hours,
after which the contents are tipped into
a basin. Next morning you’ll find it to
be a very tasty brawn, set in firm jelly.
The best way to cook ’roo meat is to
slice into fairly thin steaks, beat well with
the back of a knife and fry with onions.
It is equal to beefsteak. It can also be
minced with raw potato and onion,
pressed into balls and fried: result, tasty
rissoles. A lot is said about venison as
a dish ; actually, it is no better than a
bit of a young, grass-fed ’roo which has
been hung for two days.
* * * *
“Poopoonbah”: With all his cunning,
the crow is easy meat for the pallid
cuckoo (commonly called stormbird),
when these feathered shirkers want some-
body to rear their family for them.
When the lady cuckoo is ready to lay
her egg, she and her mate go on a flying
tour until they find a nest occupied by
a sitting crow. Then they will sit on
an adjoining branch and hurl taunts at
Mrs. Kelly until, unable to tolerate the
din, she leaves the nest to chase the in-
truders away. The male cuckoo then
flies in feigned terror through the trees,
pursued by the infuriated Mrs. Kelly,
leaving the coast clear for Mrs. Cuckoo
to do her part of the job.
* * * *
“J. Rankine”: While “Ranger” is cor-
rect about the differences between station
and show camp-drafting (B. 12/5/’37),
show committees would not rush his
proposal to substitute cows and calves
for steers. Drafting competitions have
done good in resuscitating public interest
in horsemanship, but, while cutting out
cows and calves calls for better cattle-
manship, it would be easy to fool the
public by taking the nearest cow and
calf whether they belonged to one an-
other or not. Also, as these have to be
worked steadily, the public’s reaction
would not be in favor, rather the reverse.
The public wants thrills—fast, tricky bul-
locks, galloping horses and an occasional
buster. Every cattleman knows that
show drafting is as different from the
station job as are show buckjumping
and bull-dogging. As long as a rider can
sit the show buckjumper for the 10
seconds it’s bad business to ride him to
a standstill. Nevertheless, some of these
show camp horses are better than
“Ringer” supposes; that £2OO refused
for a station camp horse would not have
gone any farther towards buying a tip-
top show drafter. Several of these have
won prize-money amounting to close on
four figures; a squadron of them are
well over the £lOO mark. As for camp
horses that can be worked without a
bridle or bit in the mouth, there were
several of them at last Sydney Show.
Reg Watt’s clever little brown mare
Norma, which won the aggregate, is one
of the best exponents of that stunt
between Brunette and Bondi.
DIGGIN' SPUDS.
Diggin’ spuds in Murphy’s paddock
When th’ sun peeps o’er th’ hill;
With y’r tongue as dry as haddock,
There, at sunset, diggin’ still.
Diggin’ when th’ sun is shinin’
Like a furnace on y’r head;
Diggin’, with a bleak wind whinin’,
Diggin’ spuds t’ earn y’r bread.
Hear th’ sound of scrub fires burnin’!
Get th’ reek of scorchin’ leaves!
Smell th’ tang of damp earth turnin’
As th’ fork its passage cleaves!
Gee! Y’r back is nearly breakin’
And y’ feel y’re almost dead,
But no fortune y’ll be rnakin’
Diggin’ spuds t’ earn y’r bread.
There’s th’ bells of wand’ring cattle,
Ringin’ in a slumbrous way;
There’s th’ sound of children’s prattle
Round th’ haystack where they play.
But along th’ rows y’re jiggin’
Till y’r footsteps seem to drag,
As y’re makin’ grub at diggin’
Spuds at one-and-three a bag.
VICTORIA.
Z. V. WEBB.


Vive reasons why a
private executor may
prove unsatisfactory
1. He offers no security.
2. He may leave the Country.
3. He may not live to carry out the Trusts.
4. He gives his spare time only to the
administration of the Estate.
5. He probably does not know the duties of
an Executor.
The Trustees Executors and Agency Company
Limited offers ample security, cannot leave the
Country, goes on for ever, devotes its whole
time to the carrying out of the duties and has
acted as Executor and Trustee for nearly 6o
years.
It is better and safer to appoint a corporate
trustee and ensure perpetual fidelity to the
terms of your Will.
An appointment may be arranged at any time.
THE TRUSTEES EXECUTORS
S.ACENCY COMPANY LTD.
( Incorporated in Victoria in ISIS.)
THE OLDEST TRUSTEE COMPANY IN AUSTRALIA
412 Collins Street, Melbourne . . . 1-5 Bligh Street, Sydney
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves and Undivided Profits, £951,874.
Trust Assets under Administration, £28,800,000. £20,000 has been lodged
with the Colonial Treasurer of New South Wales and £lO,OOO with the
Treasurer of Victoria as guarantees for the proper Administration of Estates.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman),
Maj.-Gen. Sir Brudenell White, K.C.8., K.C.M.G., K.C.V.0., D. 5.0.;
R. O. Blackwood, D. Stuart Murray, John Fordyce,
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G.; Sir Lennon Raws, C.B.E.
General Manager: W. Sydney Jones; Manager: K. M. Hughes.
N.S.W. DIRECTORS:
Sir, Claude Reading, K.C.M.G. (Chairman),
W. D. Stewart, R. T. Hilder.
N.S.W. Manager: J. W. Russell French.
V
T 2.16
THE ELECTROLYTIC REFINING AND SMELTING CO.
OF AUSTRALIA, LTD.
TAcensed Gold Buyers under Gold Bounty Act 1930-31.
PURCHASERS AND REFINERS of Gold, Gold Ores, Gold Concentrates, Silver, Silver Ores.
Silver Concentrates. Gold and Silver Bullion. Blister Copper, Copper Ores, Copper Precipitates,
Scrap Copper. Cyanide Slags, and of all materials containing Gold, Silver or Copper.
PRODUCERS gnver an(l Copper, “ESA” brand of Copper Sulphate (Bluestone).
BEARING AND ANTIFRICTION MET AES. —Graphine, Plastic, Babbit and other
Bearing and Antifriction Metals to Standard Formulas or Buyers’ own specifications.
PRINTERS’ METALS. —Linotype, Stereotype, Monotype and other 1 unters Metals
to Standard Formuhe or Buyers’ own specifications. „ ,
Purchase terms and selling prices will be quoted upon application to any of the Company *
offices, viz.: —
The WILD CAT COLUMN
Fairymead Sugar Co. (Q.)
To Re— Re-
Dec.. Profit. Dividends. serves. serves.
£ £ £ £
1926 . . 30,484 8 p.c. =: 21,200 9,284 114,597
1927 .. 61,698 10 „ „ 26,500 35,198 149,795
1928 .. 39,225 8 „ „ 21,200 18,025 167,820
1929 . . 39,142 8 „ „ 21,200 17,942 185,762
1930 .. 45,445 8 „ „ 21,200 24,245 210,007
1931 . . 48,469 8 „ „ 21,200 27,269 237,276
1932 . . 30,344 8 „ ~ 21,200 9,144 246,420
1933 . . 45,807 10 „ „ 26,500 19,307 265,727
1934 . . 35,921 10 „ „ 26,500 9,421 275,148
Drop in replacement reserve, £16,245.. 258,903
1935 . . 29,857 10 p.c. = 26,500 3,357 262,260
From inner reserves, £40,500 .. 302,760
Reserves capitalised, £132,500 .. 170,260
1936 .. 42,079 8 p.c. = 39,400 2,679 172,939
Shareholders in this Bundaberg growing
and milling co. are perplexed by a dis-
pute between the directors mainly con-
cerning the validity of the purchase of
the Malayta Co.’s assets, as from June 30
last, for, according to the chairman,
£95,000 cash, which was applied to
the purchase of 95,000 £1 Fairymead
shares at par. Some of the directors of
Fairymead are also directors of Malayta.
In a circular to shareholders, dated May
14, the chairman, representing a majority
of the board, said, among other things:
The contract for purchase was ratified
by you, and the business was in due course
taken over from the Malayta Co
Shortly after the contract was entered into
the price of copra began to rise, and by
the close of the accounting period it was
found that a substantial profit had been
made by this co. in its operation of the
Malayta Co.’s business It may be
contended for various reasons that the
ratification by this co. of the agreement
was not effective It is considered de-
sirable, therefore, that the resolutions set
out in the notice calling the meeting should
be passed.
In another circular to shareholders, dated
May 22, Henry S. B. and H. Herbert
Young, two of the directors, say, inter
alia : —
Before such allotment [of the 95,000
Fairymead shares in question] the liquida-
tor of Malayta had withdrawn his appli-
cation for such shares.... Henry Young
has been opposed to the transaction from
its inception, on the grounds that it is a
mistake for the co. to attempt to enter the
field of copra production... .Herbert
Young would not oppose the transaction,
provided it can be carried through law-
fully.... We are opposed to ratification of
a transaction which as at present advised
we bona fide believe to be irregular and
invalid, and the legality of which is being
questioned in the court.
At the annual meeting (May 28) the
report and balance sheet, from which
H. S. B. and H. H. Young disassociated
themselves, were adopted. A poll was
demanded on two resolutions for rati-
fication and confirmation of the
agreement with Malayta, the issue of
95,000 shares to that co., and all acts
of the directors in connection therewith.
At the adjourned meeting on June 2, the
chairman said: “Owing to technical de-
fects a very large number of proxies can-
not be counted in the voting. A grave in-
justice will be done if the proxies are
ignored. A further opportunity should,
therefore, be given to shareholders of
properly declaring their views.” The
meeting then closed. The liquidator of
Malayta has issued a statement of claim
against Fairymead requiring the return
of the assets to him ; and there the matter
stands for the present.
Early in the term, Fairymead handed
out £132,500 of bonus scrip, one for two,
which, together with the 95,000 shares
subsequently issued to Malayta, made
paid capital £492,500. Details of the
assets and financial position of Malayta
have not been broadcast. The co. had
a paid capital of £195,000 or thereabouts.
On this basis, Fairymead’s reserves
should have benefited by about £lOO,OOO
(visibly £40,500 was dropped from
somewhere into the heap), and Malayta’s
assets would have to net less than 4 p.c.
to enable Fairymead to pay 8 p.c. on the
nominal purchase price (£95,000).
Malayta was formed by the Young
family about 27 years ago ; its operations
consist almost entirely of copra-growing
in the British Solomon Islands, where it
owns some 14,000 acres, nearly all free-
hold, of which about 6000 acres are
planted and giving satisfactory yields.
Fairymead does not publish the quan-
tity of cane put through the rollers.
Appearances are that it earned less from
sugar last year, despite a big increase in
the Australian output of raws. After
allowing £10,902 (down £9101) for de-
preciation and for an unexplained reduc-
tion of £1704 in the replacement reserve
(now £168,243), net earnings were £12,222
better at £42,709, which includes an un-
specified return from copra for the last
half of the term. The £42,079 was 8.5
p.c. on capital, and the div. was lowered
a couple of points to 8 p.c., which is
equal to 12 p.c. after allowing for the
bonus issue already referred to.
As for the current term, a lighter crush-
ing is in prospect, owing to a dry spell.
Still, the market sees no cloud in the co.’s
sky, and prices the pound shares at 375.
10d., at which figure the return is 4.2 p.c.
on an 8 p.c. div. basis. Visibly the cover
is 275. in net tangibles.
Balance-sheet figures reflect the bonus
issue and purchase of Malayta’s busi-
ness :
1930. 1934. 1935. 1936.
Paid capital. . £265,000 £265,000 £265,000 £492,500
Liabilities* .. 28,640 62,149 59,034 48,035
Estates .. 226,908 230,051 224,014 303,895
Factories, etc. 162,111 196,239 180,668 ]
Railways, etc. 54,993 54,096 55,832 1 309,362
Plant, etc. .. 43,355 80,343 55,214 J
Stocks, etc. . . 17,814 10,201 7,045 28,252
Book debts..] 1Q J 51,176 73,251 82,494
Cash, etc. .. 1 lv ' bbG ] c,691 16,769 29,786
* Including something for taxation.
Including an unspecified provision for
taxation, liabilities were reduced by
£10,999. The growth in book value of
estates was £79,881 ; plant, etc., £117,648 ;
stocks, £21,207 ; book debts, £9243 ; cash,
etc., £13,017.
Swan Brewery Co., Ltd. (Perth)
Dividends and
, Dividend Tax
Pref. To Re- Re-
Profit. 6 p.c. Ordinary. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
Mar.,’27.. 48.871 1500 16 p.c.= 26,754 20,617 425,646
Sept.,’27.. 49,990 1500 16 „ „ 27,905 14,000 432,231
Premiums on new shares, £14,957.. 447,188
Emu Brewery purchased.
Additions to reserves, £58,933 .. 506,121
Mar.,’2B.. 61,406 1500 20 p.c.= 42,531 17,375 523,496
Sept.,’2B.. 63,511 1500 20 „ ~42,545 19,466 542,962
Mar.,’29.. 63,891 1500 20 „ ~42,545 19,846 562,808
Sept.,’29.. 48,701 1500 20 „ „ 42,545 4,716 567,524
Mar.,’3o.. 67,910 1500 20 „ ~ 42,545 23,865 591,389
Sept.,’3o.. 50,277 1500 16 „ „ 34,036 14,741 606,130
Mar.,’3l.. 40,580 1500 16 ~ ~34,036 5,044 611,174
Sept.,’3l.. 29,349 1500 12 „ „ 25,527 2,322 613,496
Mar.,’32.. 45,892 1500 16 „ ~34,030 10,356 623,852
Sept.,’32.. 37,557 1500 12 „ „ 25,527 10,530 634,382
Mar.,’33.. 50,301 1500 16 „ ~34,036 14,765 649,147
Sept.,’33.. 39,344 „1500 12 „ ~25,527 12,317 661,464
Mar.,’34.. 62,023 1500 20 „ ~42,545 17,978 679,442
Sept.,’34.. 43,192 1500 16 „ „ 34,036 7,656 687,098
Mar.,’35.. 52,224 1500 20 „ ~42,545 8,179 695,277
Sept.,’3s.. 41,749 1500 20 „ „ 42,545 692,981
Mar.,’36.. 69,795 1500 20 ~ ~42,545 25,750 718,731
S’ept.,’36.. 50,458 1500 20 „ „ 42,545 6,413 725,144
Mar., ’37.. 63,756 1500 25 „ „ 63,818 723,582
It’s a snug business, financially and other-
wise. Ever since the discoveries of Ford,
Bayley and Hannan started the rush of
thirsty people to Coolgardie and Kal-
goorlie in the early ’nineties, this co. has
enjoyed a lion’s share of the trade in
Westralia, where the consumption of
beer per head of population is about 50
p.c. greater than the average for the
whole of Australia. For nearly 20 years
to 1911 divs. ranged from 24 p.c. to 32
p.c. Then the rate dropped to 16 p.c.,
following transfer of £101,450 from re-
serves to capital, and remained steady,
sweetened with 4 p.c. bonuses in the
fattest periods, until the end of March,
1931. It receded to 14 p.c. for the next
two years, and then rose to 16, 18, 20 and
22\ p.c. for the 12 months to the close
of last accounts, the final being at the
rate of 25 p.c. p.a., of which 5 p.c. (3d.
per share) was labelled bonus.
Chief factor which has made possible
the high nominal rate of dividend is the
corpulence of the reserves —they were
£248,128 in excess of paid capital at the
end of March. Like the capital, they
belong to shareholders, who are entitled
to a fair return on the two combined.
The board did consider the question of
a bonus issue a couple of years ago, but
shelved the idea, owing to taxation and
other difficulties. During the last term,
the fully-paid 255. shares were split into
five shares of ss. each, and those on the
register at May 19 were offered 340,000
new ss. ords., one for five, at a premium
of 2s. each. The extra money (£119,000
—£85,000 capital and £34,000 share pre-
miums) is wanted to help finance re-equip-
ment of the Emu brewery, bought about
10 years ago, with a complete new plant.
When the issue is fully-paid, capital will
be £560,454, of which £50,000 carries a
fixed cumulative 6 p.c. This and 25 p.c.
to the ords. will then call for £130,613
(£16,399 more profit than was claimed
for the year to the end of March), which
does not appear to be beyond reach.
For the 12 months to the close of last
accounts, gross earnings (£359,305) sprang
£46,299. Management exes. (£86,277)
were only £9328 heavier. Including
charges for repairs (£22,576, up £3851),
depreciation (£92,454, up £20,959) and
the tax bill (£41,057, up £5167), total
exes. (£242,364) took £39,304 of the in-
crease. Allowing for an unexplained
reduction of £2930 in reserves, the net
result was £2670 better at £114,214,
which was enough to hand the prefs.
their £3OOO and show 26.3 p.c. on ord.
capital. And the “Wild Cat” believes
that much of the allowance for deprecia-
tion (£63,072 of it was in respect of
hotel properties)-is in excess of current
requirements for the purpose.
Here is the position as the published
accounts show it:
March, March, March, March,
iqqq IQ9« 1Q37
Paid capital.. £358,190 £475,454 £475,454 £475,454
Mortgages . . 51,672 17,123
Other liabilities* 90,151 122,796 184,584 183,903
Freehold and
plant .. 654,179 955,838 937,353 950,731
Mortgages . . 58,588 39,121 50,515 42,339
Stock.. ..' 54,759 40,663 63,513 50,568
Shares in other
cos 6,897 111,722 111,722 111,722
Book debts . . 81,973 81,206 128,785 143,520
Cash, etc. .. 3,353 71,504 140,925 149,375
* Includes goodwills accruing.
Brewery and plant, which cost £816,545,
figure at £266,114, and hotel freeholds,
bought for £902,749, appear at £676,973.
Last year £13,378 net was added to the
book value of fixed assets, and the more
or less liquid surplus (£201,899, includ-
ing mortgages but not shareholdings) was
strengthened by £12,745. Shareholdings
consist mainly of scrip in Emu and
Castlemaine breweries.
Maintenance of the bonus at 3d. per
share surprised the market, and the ss.
paid shares, which had sold at 30s. 6d.
cum rights a week or so ago, shot up
to 28s. ex rights, following publication of
the accounts. The return at 28s. is 4.4
p.c. on a 25 p.c. div. basis, -which is a
satisfactory return from a solid stock
with prospects. At 295. the well-protected
prefs. return 4.1 p.c.
Garratt’s, Ltd. (Sydney)
r— ——Dividends v
Pi'ef. To Re- Re-
Jan., Profit. 10 p.c. Ordinary. serves, serves.
1927.. 7,674 10,100 10 p.c. = 8,518 40,234
Shares in subsidiaries written down, £8976.. 31,258
Loss. 7J p.c.
1928.. 23,683 7,575 Nil
Special provision for losses on stocks, debtors, Deficit.
etc., £lB,OOO 18,000
1929.. 44,639 Nil Nil 62,639
Further special provision for losses, £1249.. 63,888
Written off capital, £63,888 .. ..
Profit. Reserves.
1930.. 21,087 7,575 Nil 13,512 13,512
Loss.
1931.. 592 2,525 Nil 10,395
Reserved for contingencies, £BOOO .. 2,395
Deficit.
1932.. 9,890 Nil Nil 7,495
1933.. 9,829 Nil Nil 17,324
Profit.
1934.. 10,357 Nil Nil 6,967
11 p.c. Reserves.
1935.. 19,853 11,110 5 p.c. = 1,065 7,678 711
12 p.c.
1936.. 21,179 12,120 10 „ „ 2,129 6,930 7,641
1937.. 21,230 12,120 10 „ „ 2,130 6,980 14,621
There is £122,296 of capital to feed in
101,000 £1 prefs. and 106,480 ords. of
4s. each, which means that the pref.
rights are largely nominal, owing to the
preponderance of pref. capital. To give
the ords. a chance to get into the picture
—they went without for the seven years
to the end of January, 1934, and have
had 16s. lopped off each pound share
since. 1921 —the prefs. agreed to a recon-
struction of the co. a couple of years ago.
Capital remained intact, and the pref.
div., which had been reduced by 22\ p.c.
under the N. S. Wales Interest Reduction
Act, was lifted to its original contract
rate of 10 p.c. Any profits distributed
after that are to be divided in approxi-
mately equal amounts among prefs. and
ords. until arrears of pref. divs. are
wiped out.
The co. and its two subsidiaries —
Overland, Sydney, Ltd., and Overland,
Ltd.—distribute the products of Willys-
Overland, Graham-Paige and the Singer
Co. in both N. S. Wales and Queensland,
and of the Diamond T Motor Co. in
the northern State only. The recovery
in earnings since 1933 reflects the revival
of the motor trade. Last year new car
registrations expanded at a faster rate
o Continued on page 24.)


-
H t w
sa jg*.
K:.'
•iffl
#:? i
ml
% w-jvm
H
r&V*
%
'/m
>*"K
.;ini
i
\
a ••},
m
»: if
Id#*#*
Do you know
that The National Mutual was the first Life
Office in the world to introduce the nonforfeiture
principle into Life Assurance, thus saving
many thousands of policies from lapsing. ?
Policyholders share all profits—
there are NO shareholders.
All classes of “Ordinary’* Life Assurance effected . . . including Probate,
Family Income, and Group Assurance.
Write for any quotation —
THE
NATIONAL MUTUAL
LIFE ASSOCIATION OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.
Established 18 69.
Offices:
350 George Street, Sydney
395 Collins Street, Melbourne.
And throughout Australia, New Zealand, Great Britain, India, Ceylon, South Africa and Straits Settlements.
ASSURANCES IN FORCE
£115,000,000


The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Company, Limited
Castlereagh Street and Martin Place,
SYDNEY.
Founded 1886.
The M.L.C. has money to lend on
first-class securities at lowest current
rates of interest.
APPLICATIONS INVITED.
ASSETS EXCEED £25,000,000
ANNUAL INCOME EXCEEDS
£3,500,000
Arthur Eedy, C.8.E.,
Managing Director.
W. J. Bloomfield, 8.A., LL.B.,
Joint Managing Director.
ADAMS’ (TATTERSALL’S) HOTEL,
259 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 484 GEORGE STREET.
Rooms, 6/- anil 8/- per day; Breakfast, Table d’Hote or a la Carte,
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE PUBLIC DINING ROOMS.
Lunch from 12 noon (Sunday, 12.45 p.m.), Din, ner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday, 5.45 p.m.).
Tables or Seats may be reserved by ’Phone, M 4601.
Insure with the
AUSTRAUAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office: Ocean House, 32 Martin Place, Sydney
Invested Funds exceed £500,000.
All classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
VICTORIAN BRANCH: Temple Court, 422-24 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH: Primary Building, Creek & Adelaide Sts., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. G. BROWN, General Manager.
Public Notice.
CORESTRY BONDS—I pay up to £5 more
A per bond than other buyers for N.Z. Per-
petual Forests Bonds. —R. F. CORMACK, 440
Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
SEND YOUR
ENQUIRIES FOR
MINING MACHINERY
STAMP BATTERIES
CONCENTRATORS
MAGNETIC SEPARATORS
AMALGAMATING TABLES
WATER FILTERS
EVERLASTING VALVES
ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT
MOTORS AND SWITCHGEAR
GARBAGE DESTRUCTORS
ALL CLASSES OF TOOLS.
GUTHRIDGE Pty. Limited,
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
Sydney.
than for the previous term. There was
little change in the co.’s declared net
earnings, which more than twice covered
the prefs.’ minimum annual requirements
(£10,100). After allowing for these, one-
half the balance was equal to 5.5 p.c. on
pref. capital, and the other half to 26.1
p.c. on ord. capital. Actually the ords.
got 10 p.c. and the prefs. 12 p.c., of
which 2 p.c. was in respect of arrears,
reducing them to £42,619. At that rate
it will take another 21 years to clean the
prefs.’ slate. The £6980 of the year’s
undistributed profit that remained in the
business lifted reserves to £14,621, equal
to over two-thirds of the ord. capital.
The board is well pleased with pros-
pects for the current term. But the
market, which expected the co. to do
better, and mindful of the history of this
and other concerns in the motor-agency
business, has shortened its bid for the
prefs. from 275. to 245. 3d., and for the
ords. from 7s. to 65., over the last 12
months. At the lower price the prefs.
return 9.9 p.c. and the ords. 6.6 p.c. on
the basis of last year’s distributions. The
net asset backing is 275. Id. prefs. and
6s. Bd. ords., subject to any intangibles
there may be in the subsidiaries, over
whose accounts the curtain is kept drawn.
Here is the position as the parent’s
balance-sheet figures show it:
1928. 1932. 1936. 1937.
Capital . . £186,182 £122,296 £122,296 £122,298
Sundry creditors 121,236 5,539 1,649 2,344
Freeholds and
leaseholds .. 82,062 21,834 20,059 20,000
Plant, etc. . . 12,181 ) n c ~ n ( 1,521 664
Stocks.. .. 1,067 J L°‘ u | —
Book debts .. 195,828 73,106 74,087 80,287
Shares in
subsidiaries, etc. 39,522 23,529 44,535 44,927
Finances are comfortable. The growth
of £12,200 in debtors’ balances (amounts
due from subsidiaries) suggests that the
business continues to expand. Since the
close of accounts a new assembly factory
has been erected on the co.’s Surry Hills
(N.S.W.) freehold, and the Brisbane sub-
sidiary has made improvements to its
premises.
* * * *
Hailed as another Cloncurry, a new
copper field is being opened up at Para-
dise Creek, 110 miles north-west of
Mount Isa (Q.). Over 50 acres of leases
have been pegged. About 14 miles south-
east, there is an outcrop a mile long by
200 ft. wide, and assays across the lode
averaged 11 p.c. copper. But that does
not necessarily mean much ; rich patches,
brilliant in the reds, blues and greens
of copper carbonates, can be expected in
the oxidised zone. At the Ladyanna
lease, on the principal outcrop at Para-
dise Creek, the lowest assay returns,
from Chillagoe gave 24 p.c., the ore
being mostly green carbonate. On the
adjoining Thorley’s, and Danvers and
Wellington’s leases, where the ore is
chiefly red oxide, assays have ranged
from 35 p.c. to 54 p.c. So far only sur-
face prospecting has been done, but there
is a few thousand tons of good ore in
sight, and parcels are being sent to
Chillagoe for treatment. The stuff is
transported to Mount Isa by motor-
truck, and then railed to Chillagoe. The
field is about 20 miles north-east of the
homestead at Yelvertoft station, on the
Mount Isa-Camooweal road. Plenty of
timber is available, but water is a prob-
lem ; supplies have to be carted from
Mount Isa.
H» •!» Hi
At Golden Plateau, Cracow (Q.), the
new ball mill started up about three
weeks ago, the idea being to treat more
lower-grade ore at less cost per ton, and
so lengthen the life of the mine. The
average grade of crushings has come
down from 11-12dwt. to B.Bdwt. The. de-
clared intention is to maintain crushings
at about Bdwt. per ton, the average
grade of proved ore reserves, and keep
the aggregate monthly recovery of gold
at approx. 20000 z., as in the past. This
means a drop of a shilling per share in
the div., reducing it to 3s. per annum.
The board expects to send out a shilling
per share in both July and November
next. The main shaft is to be deepened
to 440 ft. below the surface (88ft. below
present deepest workings) and crosscuts
driven to intersect shoots carrying
14-15dwt. in the workings above. If ex-
pectations are realised, this will mean an
increase in ore reserves and a lift in the
average monthly grade to about lOdwt.
A. K. Kenrriead, of the Queensland
Mines Department, recently figured prob-
able ore (not blocked) at 205,000 short
tons, averaging Bdwt., with a possible
190,000 short tons, averaging not more
than Bdwt., below existing workings.
Although the history of the field sug-
gests that values in the smaller shoots
do not live at depth, in the larger Rose’s
Pride payable values persist at 100 ft.
below water level, or 600 ft. below the
surface of the lode. There is thus reason
to expect that Nos. 1 and 3 shoots will
live to, say, 500 ft. below the surface.
Also, discovery of further shoots toward
the eastern end of the lode is a possi-
bility.
* * * *
Payable gold has been discovered in
rough, jungle-covered country, about
3000 ft. above sea-level, on the tableland
side of the Bartle Frere Range, 12 miles
from Babinda (N.Q.). Claims covering
120 acres have been pegged. A trial con-
signment of 23cwt. of picked surface
stone sent to Chillagoe by Kraft and
Wilkie averaged 64uz. On their lease
the lode is 12ft. wide and averages
where opened up. Several other reefs
have been located, but only surface work
has been done. Transport is by mules
and packhorses.
* * * *
Before commencing on the Croydon
goldfield (N.Q.), where he has taken a
50-acre lease in the Golden Gate area,
F. W. Cuthbert intends to reopen the
Hawkins Hill leases, on the Etheridge
field, where Georgetown Gold Mines
recently gave up after three years’ un-
profitable work. He has also been run-
ning the rule over a couple of leases on
the lode recently discovered at Mount
Jack, about 4\ miles sou’-west of For-
sayth.
* * * *
An Ingham (N.Q.) syndicate recently
motored over 2000 miles to inspect a
copper show in the Territory. Details
concerning the mine have not yet been
broadcast, but the syndicate believes that,
even with the heavy cost of transporting
the ore to Chillagoe (N.Q.) for treatment,
the mine will show a fair profit. Anglo-
Queensland Mining Pty., representing
overseas interests, is making a survey of
an extensive low-grade area, originally
worked by Chinese, near Brock’s Creek,
about 100 miles from Darwin. Also, the
De Bernales group is interested in the
Hercules, at Pine Creek.
* * * *
The old molybdenite mine at Wonbah,
Mount Perry (Q.), is being tried again.
Opened in 1884 it was worked intermit-
tently until 1932, the best run being
from 1917 to 1920, when Wonbah Molyb-
denite Co. treated 9591 tons For 63£ tons
of concentrates, worth £27,222 ; then a
price slump sent the co. into liquidation.
In 1932 four local miners took over and
dewatered the mine, and installed a new
flotation plant. The party soon expects
to win a ton of picked ore per week.
There is plenty of payable stuff in sight,
and the concentrate assays up to 95 p.c.
molybdenite, with less than 2 p.c. lost in
the tailings.
At Brookfield, on the outskirts of
Brisbane, five-head of 7001 b. stamps is
being erected at the Little. Wonder, where
development has been in progress for a
couple of years. The main shaft is down
100 ft., and levels are being carried east
and west on fair stone up to 2ft. in width.
A trial parcel of six tons, treated at Port
Kembla, averaged loz. Bdwt. of gold per
ton, and another eight tons from the
stopes was crushed locally for a total
return of soz. Bdwt. of retorted gold
and scwt. of concentrates carrying 2oz.
Bdwt. of gold per ton. Some 50 tons of
stone awaits crushing.
* * * *
The new mercury lode at Lands-
borough (Q.) promises to be payable.
Lack of water is holding up ore-treat-
ment ; to date two parcels, aggregat-
ing about 9cwt., yielded 1091 b. of good-
quality mercury. At Kilkivan, where
mercurial ore was discovered in 1872,
Cirson Cinnabar Pty. is installing a new
furnace and retorts. During the last
couple of months operations have been
confined to prospecting; 21i tons of
lode and alluvial yielded 1611 b. of mer-
cury, worth £4l. The famous old
Almaden del Azogue mines, in Spain,
first worked by the Phoenicians, and then
by the Romans and Moors, are still the
richest mercury-producers in the world.
* * * *
Tin and wolfram are attracting atten-
tion near Emmaville (N.S.W.). Much
ground has been pegged, leases have
been jumped and rejumped, and the job
of unravelling the complications awaits
the warden. Kathidra Tin, a £5OOO (2s.
shares) Sydney co., has met with some
very rich ore in good width and at
shallow depth. The co. expects to rail
for export about 50 tons of 10-20 p.c.
ore weekly, and to crush upwards of 10
tons of 30-50 p.c. ore and about 250 tons
of 3-5 p.c. stuff per week on the spot.
The battery is nearing completion. The
board reckons there is many years’ work
ahead of the mill, but behavior of the de-
posit at depth and actual ore reserves
have yet to be proved. All that can be
said definitely at the moment is that the
co. is working some exceptionally rich
ore. The casserite crystals, sometimes
forming large lumps of almost pure tin
oxide, occur in lode material consisting
mainly of micaceous granite in associa-
tion with decomposed quartz and some
diorite.
* * * *
Edna May Amalgamated, Westonia
(W.A.), is asking shareholders for an-
other 6d. per share to enable it to get
at its principal block of ore in the Cen-
tral. In Nov. the nominal value of the
shares was raised from 4s. to 55., and 6d.
was asked for in December for the same
purpose. The board figured that suffi-
cient pay-ore would be met with in
driving to No. 5 plat (421 ft. level) in the
Central to enable the mill to reach full
production, while, the Central is being
unwatered and opened up. Results have
been disappointing, and only 10 of the
20 head of stamps are presently to be set
in motion. Revenue is expected to cover
pumping exes., but not the cost of un-
watering and clearing the. Central shaft
and development of the Central ore-
bodies. When the co. was formed about
the middle of 1934, estimated ore re-
serves, including probable ore, above the
810 ft. level, were figured at 10,300 tons,
containing 38000 z., Edna May Deeps;
94,000 tons, 58,7000 z., Edna May Cen-
tral ; 56,000 tons, 28,0000 z., Edna May
Consolidated.
H= *• * *
At Spargo’s Reward, Spargoville
(W.A.), where Goldfields Australian De-
velopment relinquished its option on
March 15, it is proposed to erect an all-
sliming treatment plant, initial capacity
1500 tons monthly, with provision to
increase output to 3000 tons a month.
Negotiations for the additional finance
necessary are in train. Ore tests by the
Kalgoorlie School of Mines suggest no
metallurgical difficulties. Old mine assay
plans and reports show that there is
80,000 tons, averaging Bdwt., above the
300 ft. level. At June 30 last ore reserves
were figured at 56,265 tons, averaging be-
tween 6dwt. and 7dwt. When funds
permit, drilling will be carried out to
test continuation of the ore-body below
the 355 ft. horizon. Meanwhile, under-
ground development has been deferred,
money being wanted for the treatment
plant.
Unimpeded by either industrial of
shaft troubles, which affected the 1935
profits, Sons of Gwalia (W.A.) had a
better run last year. Gold won was
valued at £318,446, compared with
£253,121 in 1935. Profit was put at
£136,159, of which £7OOO was struck off
for depreciation, and £20,000 transferred
to reserve account for the new internal
shaft, which will not need to be com-
menced for a few years. Working costs
were 245. B.Bd. a ton as against 245. 2.8 d.
for the preceding term. Last year’s work
centred around development of No. 28
level. Continuation of the ore-body to
No. 29 level was proved by two winzes,
which, for an incline depth of 200 ft., dis-
closed ore of above mine average. Sur-
face drilling on the northern area has so
far failed to locate values of importance.
When this work is complete, the drills
will be transferred to the southern end
of the mine to explore possible continua-
tion of the Gwalia lodes.
* * * *
At Tindals’ first annual roll-up in
London last month, acting-chairman
Linton Thorpe said ore reserves were
179,300 tons —60 p.c. proved and the bal-
ance probable—averaging 4.63dwt. The
1,320,000 unissued 2s. shares under
option at 3s. until the end of June are
not likely to be taken, owing to weak-
ness of the market. Diamond-drilling
disclosed a number of ore-channels lying
east of the main body ; three intersected
averaged from 4dwt. to 17|dwt. over
“substantial” true widths. Treatment is
a “burning question,” and tenders are
being called for installation of the first
unit. Funds in hand are needed for de-
velopment work ; how it is proposed to
finance mill erection was not mentioned.
Estimated working .costs “should be as
low as those of any other Westralian
mine working under similar conditions.”
* * * *
Western Mining Corp. continues to do
nicely out of its two major Westralian
interests, Cox’s Find, at Erlistoun, and
Central Norseman (the old Mararoa), at
Norseman. For the. first four months of
the present year the former has yielded
gold worth £36,979 from the 4893 tons
of ore taken out:
Jan. Feb. Mar. April.
Long tons . . 1300 1250 1193 1150
Gold, oz. . . 1249 1058 1001 915
Dwt. per ton .. 19.2 16.9 16.8 15.9
Value ( £A) .. £10,869 £9290 £8790 £BO3O
At No. 1 (90ft.) level development has
exposed 46.7dwt. stone (width 10ft.) for
140 ft., while at 180 ft., the deepest level,
16dwt. ore has been proved over a
length of 150 ft. The main shaft is being
deepened to 280 ft. From Central Norse-
man £33,147 worth of yellow metal has
been won since the beginning of 1937:
Feb. Mar. April. May.
Long tons .. 2814 2967 ' 3106 2991
Gold, fine oz. . . 806 890 769 675
Dwt. per ton . . 5.7 6.0 4.9 4.5
Value ( £A) .. £7160 £7900 £6830 £5960
Mill capacity, now approx. 3000 tons
monthly, is to be almost doubled, rais-
ing it to over 60,000 tons annually.
INVENTORS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 483
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
* * * *
AUSTRALASIAN timberlands and plantation
valuation surveys, milling plants, certification of
shipments. L. MACINTOSH ELLIS, B.Sc. (late
Director State Forest Service, New Zealand), Consult-
ing Forest Engineer, 8 Bond Street, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
ORES.—Try 0. T. LEMPRIERE & CO. PTY.,
LTD., Collins House, Melbourne, when selling Ores,
Metals, Scrap, or buying Refined Tin, Antimony,
Solders, Type Metals, Bearing Metals and other
Alloys.—Advt.
* * * *
“CLIMAX” Air Tools are quicker and better.
William Adams and Company, Limited, 175 Clarence
Street, Sydney, agents for “CLIMAX” Rock Drills,
Riveting Hammers, Chipping and Caulking Hammers,
etc. Write to us for particulars. — Advt.


for summer starting I
IN WINTER WEATHER
M.
PE
Plus
ETHYL
v*//' Get that
Empire Spirit l
SUPER
Plus
ETHYL
THE ONLY SUPER
CRADE PETROL
CONTAINING BENZOL
THE BENZOL MAKES
THE DIFFERENCE
CBS/12/SP
Ptw*s BENZOL (tinted Blue) IS
SOLD AT THE STANDARD GRADE PRICE
YOU MAY .NEE-Pf^/
y toit cn/e**l
o*
*
3P
Vtv
5*
%
is
>N\
% \
«
V*°'V l< V ,i*
„r' ,V \\^ V \V'' *
te t:V v «,
„«< i \t-
'dfcS&VS&T
4. **
%A
THE EVER READY CO. (Aust.) LTD., Sydney
T 2
YOU HEED CHEAP HOT WATER
48 GALLONS FOR ONE PENNY
(based on Sydney price of coke)
3
C 3
Q
® Two hot plunge baths or three or four hot showers
for one penny. That is the economy of the
BRITISH “WHITE ROSE”
DOMESTIC BOILER
Plain or Rustless.
• This cast iron boiler lasts a lifetime.
® It burns coke, coal or charcoal and is four to five
times cheaper for upkeep.
• Needs only ordinary attention—thousands in use—
pays for itself.
• Used also for central heating with Crane Radiators.
Rooms heated for 24 hours for approximately two
pence per room.
Late Shopping,
Friday 9 p.m.
Visit our exhibit—
Strand Building
Centre —Strand
Arcade.
WRITE FOR PARTICULARS AND BOOKLET.
JOHN DANKS & SON PTY. LTD
(INCORPORATED IN. VICTORIA)
324-330 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ’Phone: M 6505.
391-403 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE. ’Phone: CB3BO.
PAINTS —RUGS —HEATERS —ETC.
«r
GOLD SETTLED WEATHER IS THE TIME FOR
PAINTING: We offer “Crown Paint”—our best seller
and guaranteed ready mixed, all colors, for 12/6 per
gallon. Also Blundell Spence’s world-famous paint, 20/-
pe r gallon. CEMENT RED ROOF PAINT, 20/- per
gallon. LINSEED OIL, in 5 gallon drums—Raw, 5/-
per gallon; Boiled, 5/2 per gallon; Pale Boiled, 5/4
per gallon. WHITE LEAD AND WHITE ZINC—No. 1,
15/6 per 281 b. keg; Genuine, 19/6 per 281 b. keg.
GENUINE TURPS in 4 gallon tins, 5/- per gallon.
MINERAL TURPS, 8/- per 4 gallon tin.
HORSE AND COW RUGS Special heavy 20oz. Jute Canvas, Brown Felt
lined with cross web girths, in all sizes from 4ft. 6in. to 7ft. All same
price, 15/- each. Postage, 2/- per rug extra. Write for full list.
in
MOLASSES —Use “Solmolaz," a food and a tonic for
sheep, cattle, horses and pigs. “Solmolaz” is molasses
with all waste liquids extracted, but with all the desirable
properties retained in a splendid, easily-handled lick form.
Packed in iron containers of 1 cwt. Price, 13/'6 each.
BATH HEATERS A few chips and plenty of hot water
is available. Always useful for purposes other
than baths; for instance, washing-up, etc. No. 1, 17/6;
No. 2, with ash tray, 26/6. Also “Stroud” Kerosene
Bath Heaters, latest type, £B/15/- nickelplated; £3/15/-
galvanised.
TILLEY LAMPS— We are sole agents for this famous
British 300 c.p. light. Burns Kerosene. Triple Purpose
Model (table lamp, hanging lamp and yard lantern all
combined), 47/6 each. Ask for detailed pamphlet.
LOWEST ALSO FOR: Cement, 4/- per bag, 95/- per ton or 90/- per ton for
6 ton lots; Leather Coats, 70/- each, post free; Dover Stoves, 60/-, with
piping free; Galv. Iron, 26g., full stocks, all sizes, unbranded, good quality,
£26 per ton, or in sheet lots, sft. 2/4, 6ft. 2/10, 7ft. 3/4, Bft. 3/10, 9ft. 4/5,
10ft. 5/- each; Fibrocene Fibro Cement Sheets, 2/- per square yard; Hose
from per foot; and all Garden Tools; Groceries; Furniture; Kitchenware;
Gates and Weldmesh Fencing; Cottonseed Meal; Water Piping and Pumps;
and all Farm and Pastoral Supplies.
WRITE FOR OUR BIG ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE. IT WILL SAVE
YOU POUNDS.
OUIINSUND PASTORAISIimiES
.BOWEN ST
PIY. LTD.
WEAR FIRE BRIGADE ) BRISBANE .
Earlier in the year managing director G.
Lindesay Clark reckoned on production
of 10,000 tons of milling ore monthly,
when the lower ore zone is opened up,
with additional feed for the mill if other
reefs come along as expected. Latest
options of the Corp. include one over the
Waverley, Siberia, and the Evanston,
Menzies. The former has yielded 1460 z.,
including tailings, from 109 tons Though
small, the reef has been opened up tor
300 ft. and to a depth of 33ft.
* * * *
Commonwealth Minina and Finanre
uommonwealth Mining and Finance
reports good values in Phoenix, one of its
subsidiaries, which used to be the old
Bayley’s Reward, Coolgardie (W.A.). In
~ j. ’ XT ?
the north drive, No 6 level of Price 3
snatt, a west crosscut shows the lode from
27ft. to 32ft., averaging 16.1dwt. a ton.
In the south drive, the new lode has
,aj x i
been advanced to 269 ft., values over the
last 37ft. being 13.4dwt. over a width of
60in. The new lode exposed on Nos.
6 8 and 10 levels is shnwinn pn nrl
, ’ • jfV levels is snowing good
lengths, widths and values.
Mt. Margaret Mines (W.A.), which
took over the Mt. Morven leases from
Renown in 1935, has decided to put up
the shutters.
BRIEF ANSWERS,
R. 8 .: Depends where seam is. Brown coal
isn’t thought much of in coastal N. S. Wales,
ac !4 coal ,w \°r plentiful —4
varying" rates tQ 1 ? p c! dming depTeSon. (JJ
£99 10s E.A.8.: Too much of an order.
Suggest you get Bulletin Life Assurance Sup-
plement, to be published next month
C P : u D °n’t know extent of British Govern-
ment’s shareholding. The Government doesn’t
own all the gold, but could acquire it in an
emergency by Act of Parliament. Information
'® s i~™jl stl . tutl i° n of underwriting firms,
but there appear to be several, and not iust
0ne....E.G.: (1) and (2) No recent informa-
tion. (3) Write T. M. Owen, 181 Clarence-
street, Sydney J.F.F. : No further details of
d lw ?nn non' Ce 7nnnn ? ap,t K 1 ( n ? w paid
up, *'ZUU,UUU. lhe £170,000 distributed renre-
sented a div. of 85 p.c. for the year. The co.
has contracted to keep costs down to 15 p.c.
total income in return for a limited partici-
Ration in the profits.... S.J .C.: Don’t know
eit her the CO. or the underwriters. Will review
if balance sheet comes to hand.


As an Investor . . .
are you up to date?
MEN and women throughout N.S.W. and every other
State have been quick to use the facilities offered to
small investors by FIRST AUSTRALIAN UNIT TRUST
CERTIFICATES. TWENTY first-class Australian Securi-
ties, each one having sound financial resources and each
being a leader in its class, are grouped together to form an
investment of impregnable strength. Participation in such
a scientific spread was formerly limited to wealthy
folk. To-day it is available to “capitalists of £25 and
upwards looking for: I—High Margin of Capital Safety;
2—Liberal Income Yield; 3—Potential Capital Appreciation.
Your securities are held in trust by the Custodian Trustees—•
Union Insurance Society of Canton, Ltd. (Union Building,
Bond Street, Sydney)—who also collect and pay to you
without any deduction whatsoever the Income derived from
your investment. Certificates are realisable at any time.
If you don’t wish to be behind the times, learn all
about this solid form of investment. For investors
big and small it combines the highest degree of
simplicity and safety with liberal income yield.
Send for Descriptive Booklet No. 1 to the Managers of the Trust—
AUSTRALIAN FIXED TRUSTS PTY., LTD.
DIRECTORS:
Victor G. Watson, Esq. (Chairman), formerly Manager, The Trustees,
Executors and Agency Co., Ltd., Melbourne; Norman L. . Cowper, Esq.,
Solicitor, Messrs. Allen, Allen and' Hemsley, Sydney; John A. L. Gunn,
Esq., F.C.A. (Aust.), Chartered Accountant (Aust.); Palmer Kent, Esq.,
Retired Chief Inspector, The Bank of Australasia.
8-14 Bond Street, Sydney.
SECURITY
Telephone: 85294.
Box 4028 V.V., G.P.O.
Cumberland First Prefs.
At 30s. last week these shares
gave an immediate return of 5.3
p.c. Their security is better than
that of Australasian Paper ords.
(selling at 345. 3d.), and they carry
the right of full participation in
divs. over 8 p.c., and share in
new issues. They are not a par-
ticularly active stock, but should
be sound holding, especially as
shares with preferential rights are
being sought at the moment.
Business, Robbery, Etc.
Sharemarkets Await a Lead
Investors have been doing little or no-
thing lately in the sharemarkets, and
doing it on a large scale. The result has
been fitful support for good industrial
shares, with no decided movement one
way or the other. People who don’t
have to sell are not so much attracted
into parting with their scrip. Buyers are
wary because of the uncertain and rather
unaccountable character of the market.
The old signs and indicators which
guided people into buying are, for the
moment, generally disregarded. Broken
Hill Prop.’s record production figures
are yawned at under present market con-
ditions. If Barrier metals fall, B.H.P.
scrip can be depended on to weaken. If
metals rise, B.H.P. scrip may weaken
again. Sometimes it almost looks as
though B.H.P. is regarded as having an
interest at the Barrier only when lead
and spelter are on the dip.
It is, of course, a fact that speculation
was one of the moving factors in the
great Stock Exchange activity of four
months ago. Speculation in industrial
shares depends mostly on rising prices,
and prices can’t go on lifting for ever.
They rarely level off quietly either; a
steadying usually comes after a drop.
Speculation has in fact received a notable
“dampening-down”—the latest phrase.
Dealers in commodities sometimes
come up against a situation where the
statistical position of a product is good,
but the market —for a time —is dead as
mutton. Something of the sort at present
exists in the sharemarkets.
Uncertainty is the keynote. Currency
and financial matters have had their full
share of intricacies and complications
added during the last 10 years, and, what
with managed currencies, controlled ex-
changes, uneven distribution of gold, poli-
tical control of finance and an enigmatic
Roosevelt, no new problem of world
trade and finance can be disposed of in
the same way as the last problem. There
are invariably disconcerting little extras
that are enough to keep the majority of
people guessing.
Within the Commonwealth the follow-
ing factors (now existing) would usually
be enough to keep a firm tone in the
sharemarke.t:
A bumper wool cheque is assured.
Steady and profitable wheat prices.
Better co. reports out already, includ-
ing General Motors-R r olden’s and
Gordon and Gotch.
Increased employment.
Easier money conditions resulting in
lower interest rates on Consols, mort-
gages and other fixed-interest securities.
Forces which have helped to defeat
any sustained recovery in ord. shares
have been:
The uncertainty of the gold-price posi-
tion in the U.S.A.
The consequent weakening in base-
metal prices. The boom in base-metals
previously had a stimulating effect on
nearly all classes of shares.
The depressed tone of markets in
London and New York, where specula-
tion previously had threatened to become
a national menace.
Previous overspeculation in the Com-
monwealth.
A scurry in Australia from ord. shares
to pref. shares, Consols, etc., following a
more satisfactory banking position.
Possibilities of a change in the Federal
and (less likely) the N. S. Wales Govern-
ments.
The putting on the market of a large
number of new ord. and pref. share
issues that quickly went to a premium
and distracted attention from older
stocks.
There is no doubt that the political
situation is restraining action by some
N. S. Wales investors. But it is almost
axiomatic in financial circles that Sydney
follows Melbourne in putting a figure on
industrial shares, and if that is at present
the case it may be assumed that Mel-
bourne market is as weak as Sydney.
Which seems to be the case, too. Myer's
shares are particularly dull at present,
and the Myer co. has no interests in
N. S. Wales. Carlton Brewery scrip is
up and down ; London Stores, Edments
and “Herald” shares, all the cos. having
their business practically confined to Vic-
toria, have been marked down substan-
tially over the past six weeks. If N. S.
Wales investors were afraid only of Lang
getting back there is ample opportunity
for them now to pick up good Victorian
stocks at rates showing a reasonable
return.
That the question is more than one of
politics, however, is shown by the firm-
ing of preference shares in N. S. Wales,
where, generally speaking, the highest
prices for some time are now ruling.
The Australian sharemarkets, it seems,
besides suffering from effects of previous
speculative overindulgence, are at present
taking the short view, and waiting for the
other fellow to assume the initiative.
Retail stores, with or without reason,
have lost a fraction of their popularity
with investors over the past month.
Ordinary shares in almost every case
have been marked down, sometimes sub-
stantially. But a general trend of the
market is apparent where retailers have
a preference issue ; it has been the cus-
tom for prefs. to keep fairly steady or to
harden in recent weeks. The following
comparison of retail-share prices over a
month is interesting:
May 3. June 3.
A. Hordern, ord 20s. 9d. 19s. 2d.
Ditto, pref 235. 3d. 225. 9d.
Buckinghams 30s. 6d. 295. 6d.
David Jones, ord 455. 6d. 41s. 9d.
Ditto, 2nd pref 28s. 3d. 295. Od.
Farmer, ord 345. 9d. 335. 6d.
Ditto, 2nd pref 265. Od. 265. 6d.
Mark Foy’s 275. 6d. 265. Od.
Ditto, pref 21s. 9d. 20s. 9d.
McDowells 445. 9d. 445. Od.
Myers (Melb.) 375. 6d. 365. Od.
Ditto, pref 355. 3d. 355. Od.
Woolworths, Ist pref. .. 40s. Od. 40s. 6d.
There is no obvious reason why retail-
store ords. should have lost favor, ex-
cept that it may amount to a delayed
spread of the general weakening in share
prices that was first apparent in manu-
facturing and base-metal issues. Cer-
tainly retailers (with banks) withstood
the first bump better than most stocks;
at present even banks are moving down.
Because of the easier money conditions
pref. shares are again coming into favor.
It is rather odd, however, that steady-
div.-paying ord. shares should not be
picked up in the same spirit also. David
Jones 6 p.c. first prefs., for instance, yield
about £4 7s. p.c.; the same co.’s ords.
at 425. return £4 15s. 2d. p.c.
* * * *
Those people who bought Gordon and
Gotch ords. on this page’s recommenda-
tion at prices from 465. up to 50s. have
no cause for regrets. A higher profit has
just been disclosed and the 12 p.c. div.
maintained. The scrip showed very little
regression during the disturbing past few
weeks, and since the half-yearly figures
were, published quotes have firmed
quickly to 565., after 525. 6d. The.
finances are very attractive, even though
visible reserves amount to only ss. Bd.
per ord. share. The stock position is
particularly good.
* * * $
There was more than usual activity in
cement shares last week, Kandos and
Australian Cement both firming, but still
yielding about £6 ss. p.c. in each case.
These cos. between them represent the
biggest and most widely spread cement
enterprise in the Commonwealth. An
interim from Australian Cement should
be declared this month, payable mid-July.
Goliath Cement 13s. 4d. shares, at 355.
6d. in Melbourne, return £5 13s. p.c.
Well-established cement cos. didn’t fare
over-badly during the depression. From
1930 onward Kandos shareholders aver-
aged 6.57 p.c. ; Australian Cement
holders,B p.c. In the future, by reason
of the basis on which the amalgamation
of interests was effected, Kandos shares
should show somewhat the better return
over a period.
Australian Portland Cement Pty. (the
Kandos-Australian Cement assets) is
putting up a new kiln at its Geelong
(Vic.) works. Capacity is to be over
100,000 tons of cement clinker a year.
Cost will be around £lOO,OOO, and plant
capacity will then be sufficient “to meet
all possible increases in demand.”
* * * *
Mt. Morgan’s distribution on July 10
will be a share, and will call for
£44,025 —something less than half the
year’s net profit, according to present
forecasts. The scrip has weakened. The
co. is at present in good-grade ore again,
and hopes are high for another big four
weeks’ metal return with which to round
off the financial year.
* * * *
On Sunday the Aorangi brought to
Sydney two geologists, from U.S.A. and
Mexico respectively, under contract to
Islands Exploration Co. (Vacuum Oil in-
terests) to search for oil in New Guinea.
W. G. Argabrite, from Roosevelt’s-coun-
try, spent 10 years mapping oil-bearing
areas in Colombia and Venezuela ; Dr.
Mullerried is from Mexico University.
H: * * *
Gold shares generally have weakened
again. North Kalgurlis were down to
18s. Id. in Melbourne last Thursday, and
looked interesting at the figure. Emperors
dropped to 16s. 5d., and Golden Plateaus
were the lowest for a long while at
14s. lOd. Wellington Alluvials paids
were down to ss. 4d. In London Lake
View and Stars were a little stronger,
and Sons of Gwalias were firm, but
Wilunas were weaker. The sterling price
of gold is still over £7 an ounce.
* * * *
Bankers and Traders’ Insurance 10s.
scrip sold at 30s. last week, following ac-
counts that showed a profit of 14 p.c.
on capital, against 20 p.c. and 17.1 p.c.
in the two preceding years. A wave of
fire losses was the trouble, and as it
happened the office put the biggest
amount of business on its books since
1930. Highest sale of the shares in 1937
was at 38s. Div. has been maintained
at 7 p.c., which shows an immediate
yield of 2.3 p.c. All things considered,
including the low immediate yield, the
scrip has possibilities at the price.
* * * *
Blessed is he who at the moment can
sell out his shareholdings at something
approaching their 1937 top price and use
the proceeds to pick up some of the
good leading market stocks that have
been marked down to a great or
moderate extent over the past two
months. Those who bought, on this
page’s recommendation or otherwise,
shares in Gordon and Gotch, Kandos
Cement, Castlemaine-Perkins, Holeproof
Hosiery and Australian Paper rights, for
instance, could have got top prices for
their scrip last week; and holders of
shares for six months in Broken Hill
Prop., Yarra Falls, Mauri Bros., Berlei,
Winchcombe Carson, Adelaide Steam,
Melbourne Steam and Mt. Lyell could
still make a change if they liked with-
out loss in any case, and sometimes at
a substantial profit.
* * * *
Support for T. J. Richards ords. has
sagged since the agreement with
Chrysler-Dodge Distributors (Aust.) Pty.
was confirmed. Continuous construction
of Chrysler and Dodge motor bodies is
to be carried on in Adelaide by Richards
(the contract runs to 1942 at least);
the Chrysler-Dodge people, however, are
to be virtually given a controlling interest
by allowing them to take up 150,000
B ord. shares of 10s. each, with the
right to 350,000 more. Existing ord.
shareholders are being offered one new
ord. for every two now held. At over
50s. cum rights a few weeks ago, there
were sales of the ords. at 375. (ex rights)
in Adelaide last week. The rights have
a wide quotation in Sydney —buyer 125.,
seller 16s.
* * * *
W. R. Carpenter shares, which were
around 455. prior to the volcanic blow-
up at Rabaul, slipped back to 435. lasi
week. Carpenters have a good bit of
money tied up in Rabaul, and earthquake
insurance isn’t a customary provision;
but Carpenter’s chairman says that dam-
age on the Co.’s account, including loss
of two vessels, valued at £20,000, and
insured, would be small. Dislocation of
business and damage to plantations are
other items that will perhaps have to be
considered. The shares recovered to
435. 6d. towards the close of the week.
* * * *
Goldsbrough Mort’s final div. of 6
p.c. made 8 p.c. for the year, compared
with 7 p.c. for the preceding term. The
market acknowledged the lift agreeably,
quotations for the shares moving up to
38s. 9d.-395. after 38s. 6d., the return
being £4 6s. p.c., allowing for the div.
accrued. Pitt, Son and Badgery £1 shares
show £4 p.c. at 50s. (10 p.c. div. basis);
Winchcombe Carson, which presents its
next accounts in August, is a particularly
attractive pastoral stock at 375. 9d.,
returning about £4 6s. p.c. if last year’s
8 p.c. is maintained, or £4 17s. 6d. p.c.
if 9 p.c. goes out for. the year to June
30. Last term 11.5 p.c. was earned on
capital. A new issue of 100,000 shares,
one for five at par, is coming.
* * * *
Morris Hedstrom disclosed a net profit
of 11 p.c. on ord. capital, allowing for
the pref. div., for the year to March 31.
In the previous term 8.3 p.c. was shown.
Balance-sheet movements were all to the
good. South Seas copra has been a bit
steadier lately at £l5 15s. a ton in Lon-
don. At 28s. 9d. the £1 shares yield
about 5 p.c. on a 6| p.c. div. basis, tak-
ing Fiji exchange into account.
* * * *
In Melbourne last week:
Barrier mines continued to be the most active
stocks on ’Change, Zinc Corp. showing a big
lift on Wednesday, then a slight recession on
Thursday. There is talk that the shares are to
be split into ss. counters.
Gordon and Gotch ords., usually quiet, were
one of the most active industrials. There were
sales as high as 565.
Yarra Falls fully-paids had turnover at
40s. 6d., and the rights at Bs. 6d. The latter,
when fully paid, would return about £5 3s.
p.c. on, a 10 p.c. div. basis.
Howard Smith ords. were the weakest for
some time at 21s. 7d. This year’s highest
quote was 245. 9d.


SMOKE-OH!
As Instructed.
My mother always said to me,
Whenever handing out advice,
That very careful l should be
To pick the friends who would be
nice.
I’ve acted on her counsel wise,
And most particular I’ve been;
I've chosen them with prudent eyes,
And picked them clean !
n.s.w. Miss Smith.
*2* -2 *2- *2*
“Navy men may now be equipped with
attache cases, pyjamas and spectacles.”
A couple of funny stories, and what
commercial travellers they will make!
*2- *2' *2- *2*
“I forget everything when T’m acting. The
audience simply doesn’t exist.”
—Actress in interview.
That’s possible.
•2* *2* *2* *2*
“Personalities count in selling.”
—Business magazine.
Provided the salesman has sufficient
self-restraint never to voice them.
•2* *2* *2* *2*
“Has football degenerated?”— “Sun.”
It may have ; but there’s still plenty
of punch in it.
•2* *2* *2*
“Although dogs were not allowed on the
premises, she managed to smuggle in her
Pekinese without its being noticed.”
An under-the-lap-dog!
•2* *2* *2* *2*
“Except for rare spells of wakefulness, when
her mind is clear, an 88-year-old Italian woman
has slept continuously for 73 years.”
Some of our legislators must be run-
ning her close for the record.
•2* *2* *2* *2*
Noise Removal.
“A Sydney University professor suggests
cork-faced buildings to absorb noise. He says
the ideal building would collapse after, say, 22
years, thus saving demolition costs.”
Apart from the fact that capsules have
replaced corks as a means of keeping
things under restraint, how is the. noise to
be disposed of after the cork building
has absorbed it? If the City Council
has to put on a Monday and Thursday
noise-removal service there’s sure to
be a moan about the rise in rates.
The system would certainly provide
openings for university graduates, but
they would have to be specially trained.
The successful removal of noise from
cork requires a very superior education,
including a knowledge of relativity, jiu-
jitsu, counterpoint and saw doctoring,
with at least a smattering of Sanskrit
and ideology.
But, above all, the efficient noise-re-
mover must have a plus personality, for
there are times when only tact and kindly
firmness will coax an obstinate noise out
of a piece of cork.
The professor’s collapsible building
raises other pretty problems. For in-
stance, if you have paid your rent up to
Friday and the building is due to fall in
on Tuesday after the banks close, does
the full rent fall due again on Friday?
Or do you give the landlord a post-
dated cheque for the ground rent only,
and let him clean up the mess himself?
Angus O’Cohen.
*2- -2- *2* *2*
“Colorado’s oldest licensed car driver is
aged 91.”
He’s probably not game to become a
pedestrian at his age.
-2- *2* -2- *2-
“The inmates of gaols would appreciate
wireless sets so that they could listen-in,” says
a welfare worker.
But wouldn’t they prefer to listen out?
•2* *2* *2*
“The modern girl knows how to keep her-
self,” says a writer.
But she still prefers a man to act as
proxy.
•2* *2* *2* *2*
“Some time or another even the man who
scoffs most at love will dote upon some
woman.”— “D.T.”
Usually marriage comes as his anti-
dote.
•2* -2* -2- *2*
“Once he threw her knitting into the pig-
yard.”—Divorce item.
Casting her purls before swine.
A La Mode.
“Tt is now fashionable to wear stockings
inside out.” —Fashion expert.
Woollen jumpers may also be worn
upside down, legs being pushed through
the sleeves, the waistband being pinned vo
the skirt, which is now worn on the upper
part of the body. Dinky little berets,
turned upside down, should be held in
position by suspenders tied round the
neck. The latest gloves (complete with
hole for big toe) are procurable in
assorted colors. Necklets are to have
longer fingers in 1938.
Dougal.
•2* *2* *2*
“Sometimes there is a suspicion that a wife
is not trying.”— Woman’s paper.
Many husbands flatly disbelieve this.
•2* *2* *2* *2*
“A former M.P. employed him for two
months to dig holes for pasts.” “S. M.
Herald.”
It will surely take much longer to
bury them.
•2* *2* *2* *2*
Mushrumors.
The mushroom is a strange fungoid
growth which comes up overnight down
on the ground ; a roundabout and weird
procedure.
All mushrooms are bald-headed, and,
like the flamingos, have but one leg.
Mushrooms are always either of an
edible or non-edible variety. That is,
you may eat them or you can eat them.
“Sorry, Was that your toe?”
“ ’Sail right, missus—I got nine more!”
Both varieties being tender, complacent
and easily swallowed, there is nothing
to prevent such a gastronomic achieve-
ment.
Of course, if you eat a non-edible
mushroom you are likely to come out in
wreaths; nevertheless, the test by trial
and error is the one and only reliable
method of discovering the food-worthi-
ness of this queer fungus.
There are two common varieties of
edible mushrooms; one has a smoky-
white cranium with pink, brown or
black gills and one leg; the other a
tawny-brown skull with black, brown or
pink gills and one leg.
Never eat a mushroom with (say)
creme de menthe gills.
In passing, it may be worthy of note
that there is a mental disorder suffered
by humanity called “mushrooming.”
When stricken with the craze ordinarily
normal people will forsake hearth and
home and wander afar armed with bas-
kets. The afflicted ones harbor delu-
sions that somehow somewhen they will
fill their baskets with mushrooms.
The word mushroom is derived from
the Eskimo-French mush (march),
room (strand); i.e., March hare.
Hanko.
*2* *2* *2* *2*
“The new pencil silhouette is designed to
make women look taller.”
And keep husbands shorter.
“When his wife recognised a New Yorker’s
voice during a radio amateur broadcast she
had him arrested on a maintenance charge.”
Perhaps that will discourage amateur
broadcasters.
•2* *2* *2* *2*
True to Principle.
“The League of American Writers has de-
cided to hold the Second International Con-
gress for the Defence of Culture in Madrid
next spring.”
The small party with the horn-rimmed
glasses picked its way carefully through
the wilderness of bricks and broken
granite which hid the street. Eventually
the guide called a halt in a cavity sus-
piciously like the hole made by a siege
howitzer.
“This, senores,” he remarked, “is the
main lecture-room in University City. I
hope your congress will prove success-
ful.”
The president rose to commence the
inaugural address, but owing to a bullet
passing through the manuscript and the
speaker it had to be abandoned. Two
or three other papers were destroyed by
liquid fire before discussion had started
upon them. The only bright note in the
proceedings was furnished by a chief
censor, who sat down in a pool of mus-
tard gas in a moment of aberration. A
vice-president held a hurried conference
with the military, who issued members
with rifles.
“Follow me, guys,” he bellowed.
“We’ve come here to defend culture,
and we’ll do it, even if it means shootin’
up every Gahdahm bullsticker in this
burg! ”
Mac.
•2* *2* *2* *2*
Wonderful how easy it is for men to
be sweet on a girl who has plenty of
sugar!
“Chess is the fairest game played,” declares
a writer.
Well, it’s certainly played on the
square.
•h 4* 4*
To smooth the troubled seas of life
Man piles up cash by toil and wit ;
And then, at last, he takes a wife —
That promptly makes a splash of it.
•Sr *!* *1* v
Crime Without Passion.
It was done! The murder which he
had plotted so long and so ingeniously
was at last accomplished!
He paced to and fro in his apartment.
There was no sign of fear in his conduct.
He was positive that it was watertight
and ironbound —the perfect murder!
Nor was he stricken with a guilty con-
science. He had proved inhumanly cal-
lous throughout the whole affair, dis-
posing of a life with the calm precision
of the watchmaker who opens the back
of your watch, blows into it and charges
seven and sixpence for cleaning it.
At length, ceasing to pace the apart-
ment, he flung himself down at a desk
and began savagely gnawing his zonker.
If he had conceived the perfect murder,
how was Dingbatt Blobbs, the famous
sleuth who figured in all his volumes, to
solve it?
T. W. N.
Coronation Toll.
“Where’s the money you saved through
not going to the Coronation?” demanded
Maria sharply.
“The money I saved!” I ejaculated.
“It’s no use lying to me,” said Maria
severely. She flaunted the bit of news-
paper she had torn off and put in her
bag. “It says here ‘the people who de-
cided to stay at home instead of going
to the Coronation saved on an average
between £5OO and £600.’ All I want to
know is what you have done with it.”
“But, good heavens, I had no money
to save! ” I declared.
“No? Well, why does it say it in the
paper?” demanded Maria. “You’ve
been out a good deal at night lately, Ait-
chem ; it’s plain to me you’ve been keep-
ing more than one home going. Now
that I know you’ve had five or six hun-
dred”—
“But I’m in debt!” I protested. “I
couldn’t pay the rent last week.”
“Then that proves it,” said Maria de-
cisively. “You are keeping another home.
I can see the*guilty look in your face.”
I defy anyone to keep a strange look
off his face when faced with an argu-
ment like that. Besides, Maria might
have heard about the bob’s worth of
flowers I gave to the barmaid at the
Splendid.
“Damn it all, woman”
“Don’t roar at me! You’re losing
your temper. There’s an old saying that
the truth always hurts. If it weren’t true
there’d be no need for you to lose your
temper. And while you’re spending all
that money you expect me”
Well, you know the way a woman
argues—all those phrases about' slaving
her fingers to the bone. She’s going to
get that extra half-crown a week for
housekeeping.
I don’t know why kings should want
to get crowned. I don’t know why
newspapers should print loose statements
like that.
Although, of course, even if they
didn’t, Maria would still find a way.
H. M.
•2* *2* *2* *2*
“More women playing outdoor draughts in
Brisbane.”
Then enjoy putting men in their places.
*2* *2* *!• *l*
“To achieve success, a man must lose him-
self in his work,” says a manufacturer.
What about a tourist guide?
•2* * *2* -!*
Oiling Them Up.
“An oil-painting by S. J. Lamorna Birch,
R.A., Has beer bought by the trustees of the
Sydney Art Gallery for 150 guineas. The pic-
ture is entitled ‘Changing the Fly.’ ”
Verbatim report recorded by “S.W.K.”
of the secretary’s address at the meeting
of the Beer-chewers and Hop-fanciers’
Association:
Shenelmen, —It ish with deep graticafa
. . . gricatifa . . . gritafic . . . dammit —
hie —pleasure that I note thish shplendid
public-spirited action of trushtees in at
lasht putting {hie) Art Gallery to use
other than ash shelter for Shunday after-
noon Domain shtrollers caught in rain
without overcoatsh. It amply demon-
shtratesh that Art ish no longer pro-
rotogive . . . preragot ... ish no longer
jush for highbrowsh. Any picture that
commandsh price shev’ral hundred
gallons beer mush be three X. {Hear,
hear.)
No doubt trushtees were moved to
thish {hie) innovation becaush of title of
picture, which ish doubtlesh glorifying
fellow that drinksh with flies and has to
keep going from pub to pub on hish
own for change of insectsh. {Groans.)
Sherve him right, too! {Cheers.)
Having made shtart, no doubt trush-
tees will now go the whole hogshead,
ash it were. They could Moshcow
“Rorke’s Drift,” which should bring
few hundred vats of “old” ; might even
exchange “Meeting of Solomon and
Sheba” for brewery, if any brewer goat
enough to take monshtrosity. Good
opp’tunity “flog” all pictures shtuck away
in dungeons becaush no place show ’em.
Anyway, why shouldn’t public who shup-
port Gallery be able to get oiled on their
own oil paintings. Oil berreran water-
colorsh. Water no good. {Emphatic
assent.)
Arty blokes always talking ’bout rea-
lishm in art. Well, easy make Gallery
realishtic by lowering preshent brass
railsh within few inches of floor and
shpread shawdust. To overcome any
poshible difficulties in dishposing of beer
my Assosh . . . Ossash . . . my Ossosh
. . . blastit, my organisation willing to
furnish any assishtance required. Any
of our members, who are all expertsh
{applause), would be only too glad per-
form services in honorary capacities such
as tastersh, advisersh, etc. {Renewed
cheering.)
And, if anyone wantsh a bet, my
exeg’tive will nominate four membersh
guaranteed to drink their way through
every picture in Main Hall againsht all-
comersh. {Loud and prolonged applause.)


SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Carrying 12st. 121 b., which is 71b.
more than he had been allotted in the
Grand National Hurdle, Pooley Bridge
won the York Hurdle at Flemington on
Saturday like a champion. He scored
by only a neck from the favorite, Bridge
of Mar ; but the margin could have been
much greater if Les Healey had
thoroughly exposed his mount.
The victory was unexpected by those
associated with the stable. Bert Foul-
sham, who trains Pooley Bridge and
races him in partnership with C. Dawson,
breeder of the gelding, intended to give
his charge a run over the battens at
Woodend on the previous Wednesday ;
but rain fell and the project was aban-
doned.
Pooley Bridge had done no public
jumping since August, 1936, when he
completed a sequence of four successive
wins by taking the Australian Hurdle at
Caulfield with 12st. 51b. in the saddle.
The going being heavy at Flemington, it
is not hard to understand that Pooley
Bridge was allowed to “run loose.” He
drifted from fives to tens.
But even those who ought to have
known him best did not make adequate
allowance for the superior class of this
powerfully-built thoroughbred. Healey
let him loaf along while Bridge of Mar
was trying to lead from end to end.
Travelling well within himself, Pooley
Bridge began to move forward at the
half-mile pole. From that point he
travelled like a Phar Lap of the jumping
field.
On paper no horse that finished behind
Pooley Bridge has a donkey’s chance
against him in the National Hurdle. This
fact was reflected in the subsequent de-
mand for him in doubles on the course,
but the odds had become so restricted
that no business resulted. The Adelaide
candidate, Highland Fling, who scored
so impressively at Flemington in the
spring, may develop into a danger before
the first Saturday in July ; otherwise, the
result of the first “leg” of the National
double seems assured.
Santa Casa did not lose any friends
for the National Steeple by striking his
colors to Elegance in the Hopetoun
Steeple. He gave the winner 10 lengths’
start over the last mile and was eight
lengths behind him four furlongs from
home. Yet Santa Casa overhauled his
rival at the last fence and actually led
him into the straight.
Allowing that Elegance made a tardy
take-off at the final obstacle, Santa Casa
did remarkably well to reach the front.
Aided by a pull of 201 b. in weight, Ele-
gance came again. Santa Casa tired and
was beaten by a length and a quarter.
The plodding Wakerife was four lengths
farther away, wresting third honors from
Montargis in the last stride.
Three miles and a furlong should suit
Santa Casa better than Elegance, though
the latter is younger and may make into
a really good crosscountry performer.
Starting at 7 to 1, Elegance was, with
Cape Lilock, next in request to Santa
Casa (3 to 1) in the week-end contest. If
Pooley Bridge takes on his National
Steeple engagement—so far he has not
raced over fences —he will have to seri-
ously reckon with Santa Casa, Bermuda
and (possibly) Elegance.
V.R.C. handicapper J. H. Davis does
not believe in overweighting good horses.
Somewhat reluctantly, he has penalised
Pooley Bridge 31b. in the National
Plurdle, bringing his impost up to 12st.
81b., which is far from prohibitive.
Elegance has been awarded an additional
51b. in the crosscountry event, and will
have to carry lOst. 31b.
Damalis (Thracian-Amarelle) was the
medium of a sensational betting plunge
in the first division of the Rothsay Trial.
This colt is trained by Lou Robertson
for A. T. Creswick, the wool baron, his
breeder. He was considered good enough
to be taken to Sydney in the spring, but
was a failure, there. Speckers got as
much at 20 to 1 about Damalis on Satur-
day. The big money went on at odds of
12 to 1 down to 7 to 2.
The determined style in which Damalis
was supported suggested that any price
was a good one, as indeed it proved.
Only fourth into the straight, Damalis
put in such telling strides over the last
two furlongs that he scored, running
away, from Gladness (20 to 1) and Fear-
nought, an 11-to-2 chance.
Sporting silk for the first time, Royal
Order (Limond-Anklet) landed the
second division of the Rothsay Trial
quite as decisively as Damalis had an-
nexed the first division. He collared the
pacemaker, Winoobra, at the furlong
post and won by a length from Pageant
(7-to-2 favorite), who came too late on
the scene. The Maorilanders behind
Royal Order did not neglect to back the
colt, despite his inexperience, 12 to 1
being the best on offer in a good betting
race.
J. M. Niall, of the V.R.C. committee,
was compensated for the Moonee failure
of Manrico when Studio, an elder sister
of that colt, appropriated the Royal
Handicap. She was in front all the way,
and stalled off a challenge from little
Hostile without real effort. Regular
Bachelor, one of the best horses up to a
mile that Queensland has produced in
recent years, ran third and finished faster
than the other placegetters. Studio eased
from 5 to 2 to fours because of a late
rush for Ogwell, who let his backers
down badly.
Windmar, a Windbag mare, upset a
good thing in Upoko Ariki in the middle-
distance Sandringham Handicap. With
ordinary luck “Upoko” would have won.
J. T. Jamieson sent him over from Syd-
ney to the care of C. T. Godby, who may
soon pick up a race with the consistent
gelding of M.L. origin.
Chasing their losses, Flemington punt-
ers accepted 3 to 1 about Humorist in
the Buckingham Welter, for three-year-
olds, and had the mortification of seeing
the Brazen colt pipped on the post by
Suliman, a 12-to-l pop. Suliman, a geld-
ing by Spelthorne, belongs to J. Maher,
whose son is riding with success over
obstacles.
When Duke Caledon broke down last
year it was thought that his racing days
were over. Jack King did not agree,
and, as a result of careful attention on
King’s farm, the big son of Caledon is
displaying better form than at any other
stage of his career. His opponents in
the first division of the Flying Handicap
at Victoria Park had no chance with
him ; Duke Caledon won with his mouth
open from Glenwitch and the pacemaker,
Bulldozer. He started at 5 to 2 after
touching 7 to 2.
Although a reputed mudlark, Casi-
casado went out at 6 to 1 for the second
division, and better odds were laid.
Young Neale, whose father is still riding
on the North Coast of N.S.W., had Casi-
casado in front from the moment the
barrier rose, and that was the end of the
race. And Wedding Eve’s gelded son
beat a pretty good field: Fernacre was
second and Black Laughter third. There
was money for Water Waggon, who
seemingly was not quite ready, although
he looked bright enough. Casicasado is
related to El Senorita. He has now won
three races.
The Victoria Park Handicap provided
an exciting finish. Three horses flashed
past the judge locked together. Friar’s
Switch, who was favorite at twos,
appeared lucky to deadheat with Gay
Knight (10 to 1), but Fair Diana, who
came fast in the last furlong, would have
beaten the pair in another few strides ;
as it was, many people thought she had
got up in time. Cid, who led a furlong
from home, was a good fourth. Buonar-
roti, after making the pace, failed to stay
the distance —a mile and a quarter.
A.J.C. committeeman Hunter White
was present to see his Buoyant Bachelor
filly Sweet Myra, a half-sister to Closing
Time, capture the first division of the
Juvenile. She outclassed Return Ticket
and Torch. Fives were laid, but the clos-
ing price was 7 to 2. Royal Sun was a
good performer on wet tracks, and one
of his progeny, Welcome, made hacks
of her opponents in the second division.
She started at 6 to 4, and was always in
front. Four O’Clock and Constant Light
filled the places.
Pantheon sired the winners of the
Novice. Handicap divisions. In the first
Fugitive (3 to 1) came from last in the
early stages to beat Red Clover and
Lucky Pan, also by Pantheon; in the
second Cambalong (20 to 1) gave the
bookies a clean sheet.
The going was heavy, and, except in
the case of Duke Caledon, the form may
not prove a trustworthy indication to
future results. Water Waggon and Fair
Diana should improve.
* * * *
“Thormanby”: The Derby went to an
outsider, Mrs. Miller’s Midday Sun (100
to 9). Sandsprite, owned by F. Nagle,
was second at 100 to 1 and the Aga’s
Blenheim colt Le Grand Due third, at
100 to 7, so Israel should have no need
for sackcloth and ashes. The winner is
by Solario, and traces back to Carbine
on the dam’s side, so he lacks nothing in
staying blood, as the result proves. This
is only the second time a woman has
scored in the classic, the last occasion
being when Gainsborough, nominated by
Lady Douglas, won.
* * * *
Nominations for all the important
spring handicaps closed last week, and
if the N.S.W. Government, which extorts
25 p.c. admission tax from visitors
to the Randwick Leger, takes 9 p.c. from
tote receipts and charges double fares
on its race trams and trains, wants any
further information as to the decline of
racing in Sydney, it ought to compare
Sydney and Melbourne prizes and num-
ber of entries, as published in the news-
papers. A.J.C. nominations were 152 for
the Epsom and 139 for the Metropolitan.
The V.R.C. got 281 for the Melbourne
Cup and 238 for the Cantala Stakes;
the V.A.T.C., 280 for the Caulfield Cup
and 241 for the Eclipse (hitherto the
Consolation) Stakes; Williamstown 227
and Moonee Valley 171, each for its Cup
race. Even the Bendigo people received
152 entries for their Cup. The Mel-
bourne Cup is worth £lO,OOO and trophy,
the. Caulfield Cup £6500 and gold cup,
the Moonee Valley Cup £3OOO (“includ-
ing cup value £200”), the Williamstown
Cup £2500 and trophy and the Eclipse
Stakes £2500. For the Epsom the
A.J.C. offers £2600, and for the Metrop.
£5OOO ; and, in the condition to which
overtaxation has reduced racing at Rand-
wick, these prizes are generous.
* * * H:
If the change from Sydney to Bris-
bane can improve Gay Chou as much as
the change from Melbourne to Sydney
has done, the Gay Lothario-Chouette
gelding will prove a formidable oppo-
nent for Pamelus in the Doomben New-
market. He has Bst. 31b. in that race
(Pamelus has 9st. 111 b.); with 9st. 81b.
in a division of the Flying Welter at
Kensington (Sydney), he made the oppo-
sition look very cheap. It was not
strong opposition (Anchor and Bonny
Royal were the placegetters), and the
time, lmin. 7|sec. (distance, 5i furlongs),
was unremarkable ; but Gay Chou could
have done a lot better. At Randwick he
has done “seven” in lmin. 24sec., and
that is good enough for Doomben. Bris-
bane observers are not altogether satis-
fied with Pamelus’s track work. Although
he has a pull in the weights he can’t
afford to give away anything on the
score of condition, for Gay Chou, Mohi-
can and Heroic Faith are very fit horses.
* * * *
“D.E.”: The Bulletin has pointed
out again and again that s.p. betting
could be stopped by making publication
of the weights lawful only within race-
course gates, as —in all States except S.A.
—bookmaking and tote-betting are only
lawful there. Of course, no Australian
Government will ever go this far, though
most Australian Governments impose
idiotic and entirely useless restrictions
on newspaper publication of ante-post
odds. S.P. betting could likewise be
stopped by a simple addition to the Copy-
rights Acts, making a race meeting a
show and giving the club complete rights
over the show. Meetings of nation-
wide interest, such as the Melbourne,
Caulfield and Sydney Cups might be
exempted. But, of course, no Common-
wealth Government would pass such
legislation, least of all the crowd which
will have to go to the country in a few
months.
Footbrawl
Melbourne is still the only unbeaten
V.F.L. team. After Saturday’s series it
has a lead of eight premiership points
over St. Kilda and Collingwood: Saints
drew level with ’Wood by defeating it in
their match. The other team in “the
four” is Richmond, but Geelong is only
two points away in fifth place. Surpris-
ing Richmond —and the barrackers —
Hawthorn jumped from bottom-ladder
position to rank with North Melbourne
and Footscray; Carlton, Fitzroy and
Essendon, on even terms, stand between
these three and Geelong. South Mel-
bourne is last again.
Features of the day were Hawthorn’s
two-point win over Richmond, 9-6 to
8- and St. Kilda’s clear margin of
12-15 to 9-15 against Collingwood. Mel-
bourne, 25-16, had things its own way
with North Melbourne, 5-14, and Gee-
long. 16-19, was just as much on top
against Fitzroy, 10-10. Essendon downed
South, 16-12 to 11-10, and Carlton, 19-12,
came to light against Footscray, 9-10.
* * * ‘ ♦
The Victorian Rugby Union men to
meet the Springboks on the Carlton
ground next Saturday shaped rather dis-
appointingly against combined Australian
Universities at the Amateur Sports-
ground. It wasn’t till late in the second
half that the ’Varsity men lost their grip
on the game ; then Victoria rattled on
the winning margin of 11 points, 17 to 6.
The match revealed bad faults in an
otherwise good State combination —for-
wards shirked getting into loose scrums,
and a promising line of attacking backs
neglected to move up on the opposing
rearguard when latter swung into attack.
Full-back Bick was overshadowed by
Clarke, a promising Queensland Univer-
sity boy whose style of play is reminis-
cent of Bob Westfield’s.
* * * *
With the Springboks due in a couple
of weeks, Sydney Rugby Union staged a
Possibles v. Probables affair on Saturday,
and then chose the State team. Towers
leads, at centre, and the full-back trouble
has been settled by taking Rankin from
the centre. Pauling gets the berth along-
side Towers. Others of the backs are
Kelaher (wing), Richards and McShane
to work the scrum.
Probables (15) v. Possibles (14) and
the grade games were played in the mud.
Gordon downed St. George by a point,
9- that gave West —it accounted for
East, 20-8 —sole occupancy of the top-
of-the-table position. Parramatta has
started a forward move; Randwick is
Parra.’s latest victim —19-3. In the other
games Manly trounced Drummoyne, 19-
nil, and University scrambled home from
North, 8-3.
At Adelaide the Springboks beat South
Aus. 55-3.
* * * *
Sydney Cricket Ground was a quag-
mire for the N.S.W.-Queensland Rugby
League game, but there was little attempt
to play the type of football the team for
England will have to play under similar
conditions. Both sides tried to open up
the game, and both succeeded. It was
pretty to watch, but it would have been
disastrous opposed to hefty English for-
wards and backs. Queensland had a
stroke of misfortune in the first five
minutes when the half, Gilbert, had to
retire with a broken collarbone, and
thereafter had little chance in attack. To
make matters worse the 35-year-old
Madsen had no hope with the N.S.W.
hooker Nolan. N.S.W. led 15-9 (three
tries to one) at lemons and added an-
other couple of tries afterwards, to finish
21-9 ahead.
McLean, the ex-Union Queensland
winger, was rarely given a pass, but did
what little he had to do well. Reardon,
the centre, showed a tendency to hang
on. The full-back position is still a
problem. Queenslander Whittle shaded
Ward, but Conlon, the countryman who
comes into the N.S.W. team for next
Saturday’s game, looks a better bet —
Beaton, last year’s full, is still wanted in
the centre. With Gilbert out the half
will take some picking ; most of those
offering are too small to face a fast-
breaking English pack.
o Continued on page 30.)
Australian polo, players and ponies
alike, got a great advertisement when the
four Ashton brothers beat the strong
Hurlingham side by 10 goals to four.
Thereby the Goulburn men won the
Coronation Cup and trophies,
FOR WILLIAMSTOWN.
Point Cook Handicap: Vital;
next, Nissa.
Esplanade Welter: Ogwell; next,
Palatinate.
FOR CANTERBURY PARK.
Flying Welter: Kaylah; next,
Water Waggon.
Canterbury Handicap: Fair
Diana; next, Balgay.
Park Stakes: Heroina ; next, In-
terview.


Age 40!
m m
Starts health’s steep downward slope. About 40 life’s
fight begins. Danger symptoms show—weak, dizzy,
depressed spells; backaches, rheumatism (often affect-
ing heart); attacks from kidney germs, acids and
poisons.
AVERAGE LIFE ENDS ABOUT 55
This important fact vitally affects every grown man and woman.
Medical science proves “Life-
line Decline” starts near 40.
Then “ middle - age ” troubles
cheat great numbers of men of
health; while Kidney and
Bladder breakdown afflicts
about 65 men and women in
every 100—though many never
know why they ail! Seventy-
five per cent, of poison wastes
and uric acid deposits are filtered
by the kidneys in too concen-
trated a form. The overbur-
dened cells cannot stand the
strain. Congestion occurs, forc-
ing back into the system poisons
which should be expelled. Germ
attacks start. Here is where
health starts to fall off. Back,
groin, loin, muscular and
shoulder pains occur; swellings,
headaches, blurred vision, loss
of vitality; perhaps inflammation
of the bladder and urinary tract;
excessive or painful urination;
shortness of breath; palpitation
of the heart, puffiness under the
eyes, nausea and many quite
alarming signs of future trouble.
LIFE CAN “BEGIN” AT 40
And GO ON Comfortably Long After 55
Strengthen kidneys, restore
bladder, kill uric acidity—last-
ingly—properly—and Life can
be more full; can be extended
by five, ten, even twenty years,
For this purpose, Harrison’s Pills
—offered under authority of Dr.
Wm. Harrison, member of the
Royal College of Physicians, are
remarkably effective. Harrison’s
Pills are compounded to the most
perfect prescription known for
safely, surely, quickly overcom-
ing most middle- and old-age
weaknesses, pains and ills.
■Mi
m
<*:*k*.*k
“Unless l can end these pains and get hack my strength
I feel / cant go on.”
So say thousands. The Remedy is Harrison’s Pills —producing a
rapid change from despondent weakness and pain to sparkling health.
, w
'f
'/A
<v>
11
mm
mm
mm
m§
SwSJw
m
-
M
■
WSSsSSS
mmmm
mmm
HM
VfiX
m
m
mm
mm
W
- m
■*LL—L 3
URIC ACID Crystals Like Splintered Glass
TEAR NERVES & MUSCLES
REMOVE
THESE HARM-
FUL ACID
CRYSTALS
with
HARRISON’S
PILLS.
'Vv'i
Diaqram shouiinq Tqpes of
Needle-point Uric Acid Crystals
sd
With every movement —TORTURE! Tiny painpoints that with every
move make you gasp and limp—weaken you and spoil life. Rheumatism
is deadly. It starts with kidney-failure. Cleanse your system of the
trouble-causing crystals; heal your raw, weakened kidneys—by taking
Harrison’s Pills. This remedy reaches the spot. In quick time
sufferers who have failed to get benefit from other remedies find
Harrison’s Pills bring grateful ease.
Weary Bodies Revive YOUTH Returns
as Harrison’s Pills Conquer Causes of Decline
Harrison’s Pills strengthen Kidneys and
Bladder, Expel Uric Acid, Kill Germs and
Revitalise all the Vital Organs.
A short course of Harrison’s Pills produce
surprising improvements in health and vigor.
See the end of limb weariness, of haggard
appearance and despondent outlook. Note
the end of constipation. See a betterment in
your vision. Feel yourself become a good
ten years younger as Harrison’s Pills kill the
causes of ageing ills and instil new power
into every nerve and sinew; say good-bye to
your aches, pains, inflammation and stiffness.
Feel your step gain new youthful elasticity;
hear your friends remark at the vast improve-
ment in your spirits and your bearing.
HARRISON’S PILLS NEVER DISAPPOINT.
Harrison’s Pills provide the most effective
general method known of prolonging useful,
healthy, pain-free life. And, in the added
years you gain, who knows what further
astounding marvels of rejuvenation science
may devise?
Women Get Splendid Results
“Dear Sirs, —My daughter haa suffered a lot from
swollen feet. She tried many other remedies, but
obtained no benefit until taking Harrison’s Pills. They
gave her relief straight away, and- we cannot speak
too highly of them —they really are wonderful. She
haa had no recurrences of the trouble.
(Signed) 0. E. McKellar.”
MADE HIM A NEW MAN!
“Dear Sirs, —Due to uric acid and severe rheumatism, I
was practically dead at 77. In spite of the severity of
my trouble, Harrison’s Pills have made a new man of
me, and I feel not a day older than 50. I have never
known any remedy act in such a remarkably beneficial
manner.—(Signed) B. Jacobson.”
ANOTHER USER SAYS:—
“Harrison’s Kidney and Bladder Pills are the only pills
that do me any good . . . they saved me going to the
Hobart Public Hospital week after week. I suffered
from splitting headaches, giddiness, and I was bent
over like a half—shut penknife with my back. Last
August I was in bed five weeks—thanks to Harrison’s
Pills I am out of bed now. You can use this to let
anyone else know.—(Signed) J. Taylor.”
Future will be so Interesting
LIFE MAY HOLD SO
MUCH
A REAL
('nmmnU
IMMEDIATE RESULTS
OR NO COST.
Simply get a package of Harrison’s Pills from the
nearest chemist. Take as directed, and if not freed
from your aches and pains—if not more than pleased
with the improvements in your health, strength and
general bearing—your money will be returned. This
guarantee protects you in making a trial —if Harrison’s
Pills succeed at once in your own case, they are worth
the cost. If the first bottle fails —it is freel
END AGEING KIDNEY,
Bladder and Acid Ills With
HARRISOHS PIUS


"silver edge
BRAKE LINING
trade mark the raybestosco.
MOOTISigP SAVE
IEGISTERED. THE RAYBESIOS <~U. k
money/
There is never any true economy in cheap articles',
particularly does this apply to your motor vehicle s brakes.
Your safety and the safety of pedestrians depend upon the
reliability of your brakes.
For over twenty years “RAYBESTOS” Brake Linings have main-
tained a name for quality, building up a reputation ifor
product unrivalled by any other firm. It wfil prove cheaper, in the long
if you ask for your brakes to be relined with RAYBbblUi.
RAYBESTOS-BELACO, LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Factory Kep.: JOHN ARNOLD. G.P.O. Box 71, Melbourne, Vic.
MADE BY
MARTIN, SONS & CO., LTD.,
HUDDERSFIELD, ENGLAND,
THE FOUNDERS OF THE WORSTED INDUSTRY.
%P% %pi%Pfw
THE IDEAL OF ALL WELL-DRESSED MEN.
POSITIVELY
THE LARGEST RANGE OF EXCLUSIVE DESIGNS
EVER PRESENTED FOR MENS
SUITINGS
M.Q. and Rafferty
Victoria has a very promising feather-
weight in Harry Summers. Harry hit
Frank Farrington on the ear early in
their fight at Leichhardt, and was
cautioned for using a rabbit-killer. This
reprimand made the Melbourne lad un-
certain what to do at close quarters ; all
the same, his snappy straight punching
was conspicuous and effective. Farring-
ton did his best work in the closing
rounds, and the decision was a draw.
Judging by the hooting, a big majority
of the spectators thought Summers had
won.
Footbrawl
“JolimontV: The Melbourne C.G.
authorities are reaping the reward of
their huge outlay on the reconditioning
of the ground, which is now, from the
paying public’s point of view, about the
best-appointed in the world. Football
“gates” this season have been records,
the public realising that there is now
protection from the weather to add to
the up-to-date seating. Other ground
controllers are realising the possibilities
and considering ways and means of bring-
ing their arenas into line with modern
requirements. St. Kilda took time by
the forelock, and after spending some
thousands on new stands and improve-
ments is now claiming to have the best
ground in Victoria after the Melbourne
C.G.
sjc ♦ ♦
“Rottnest”: “The news will come as a
bombshell” —“it is certain to have a stun-
ning effect on Vic-
torian re p r esenta-
tives. ?> These ex-
cerpts from a
column-long wire
from Westralia re-
fer, not to a declara-
tion of war by West-
ralia against the
Cab bage Garden,
but to the fact that
a Perth football club
has signed up a foot-
ball fugitive' from
Victoria, which has
vainly been trying to
lure the escapee
back with honeyed
promises. The ac-
count of the parleys
between the officials
of the successful
club and the central
figure before the
final pen which shat-
tered the Victorian
< hopes was put to
paper reads like a
chapter of European
secret diplomacy at
its most Oppenheim-
ish height.
* * *
The Springboks opened their Austra-
lian tour with a match against a West-
ralian team at Perth. Although just off
the boat the tourists soon took command
of the situation and ran out winners by
47-8. The Westralians played pluckily,
and now and then in the lineouts
shaded their adversaries. They were out-
pointed in all other particulars, and the
way they were shoved off the ball in the
set scrums by the giant visitors was an
eye-opener to the most experienced on-
lookers.
* * * *
“Rucker”: Having come unscathed
through their Adelaide and Perth engage-
ments, the Springboks tackle something
stronger on Saturday, when Victoria will
be encountered in Melbourne. The tour-
ists have had from Monday to get rid
of their sea legs, and if long preparation
and careful coaching can do it the Vic-
torians intend to make the visitors realise
they have at last struck something solid.
Four days later, on June 16, the ’Boks
will meet Combined West at Orange
and tackle N.S.W. in Sydney three days
later.
“Stand Off”: There was an interesting
fuss at a N.S.W. Rugby Union meeting
which appointed “Johnny” Wallace, the
Oxford, Scotland and Waratah three-
quarter, as coach of the N.S.W. team to
play the Springboks. Delegate F. J-
Herlihy pointed out that Wallace had
not seen the inter-State matches and
had played League football while
living in the country. He asked what
the result would be if a charge of techni-
cal professionalism was brought against
Wallace, and later announced his inten-
tion of bringing one. The Union should
take the matter in hand at once, and get
busy with the whitewash. Few foot-
ballers have been held in higher esteem
that Wallace, at home and abroad. This
case is only one of many illustrating the
danger of playing a professional game,
even in the purest amateur spirit.
* * * *
“Stand Off”: After as much chopping
and changing as it has shown in its other
preparations for the Springboks, the
N.S.W.R.U. has at last decided on the
colors to be worn by Australian repre-
sentatives against the visitors. The regu-
lar Australian green and gold has been
dropped to avoid clashing with the colors
“Y’ don't 'ave t' Worry, sir —’E’ll do all the fightin '!”
of the ’Boks, and our men will go gay
in white, with a green-and-gold band,
with stocking tops to match and black
breeks.
* * * *
“Old Q.”: Rugby Union addicts on
both sides the Tasman are waiting for
the annual meeting of the English R.U.
on June 25. The so-called Australian
Union —which doesn’t exist in fact, its
job being hogged by N.S.W. —is affili-
ated to the English body, which is to
consider changes in the rules recom-
mended by the International Board.
Most important of these relate to vexa-
tious scrum practices, particularly those
connected with putting the ball into the
pack. I doubt whether any rule can
prevent a crook half putting in the ball
with a Leg- or off-break or other method
calculated to give his pack an advantage.
A real reform would be a return to the
old Queensland practice whereby the
umpire put the ball in. To those who
haven’t seen this method at work it
might be thought to slow up the game.
The fact that the umpire is compelled to
be up .at every scrum as quickly as the
forwards dismisses this impression, and
there can be no question about the fair-
ness of the practice.
* * * *
“Gate”: It looks as if the' Australian
Rugby League team will reach England
minus a star. For gate-drawing purposes
it will be imperative that the team show
outstanding form in early matches, and
if one or two of the present unknowns
can blossom out into crackajacks so
much the better. Otherwise, dwindling
gates and an unsatisfactory balance-
sheet may round off the tour. Austra-
lian teams have taken good money in
England, though nothing like the brass
English teams have lugged back from
Australia. The last Kangaroos made
£9OOO, and would have made more if
they had figured better in the Tests. The
first —at Manchester —yielded £4700 in
round figures. It was lost, and the gate
at the second dropped to £3900. This
was lost also, and so was most of the
interest in the visitors, for the third and
last drew only a trifle over £l5OO.
* * * *
“Stoush”: The N.S.W. joint manager
of the Australian League team for Eng-
land will be R. E. Savage, for years sec-
retary of Balmain. His Queensland part-
ner is certain again to be Harry Sunder-
land, the Q.R.L. having recommended
him to the Board of Control, though the
rival Brisbane organisation has nomi-
nated a man as a protest.
Nineteenth Hole
“Solidarity”: Some of the Sydney pro-
fessional golfers are kicking because a
German pro. recently arrived has got a
job with one of the Sydney clubs. The
player, Falk by name, is not a member
of the local Professional Golfers’ Asso-
ciation, but as he has been playing in
England for some time and is a member
of the P.G.A. there, to which the N.S.W.
body is affiliated, no objection can be
taken to him on that score. Eastlake, the
club which has engaged Falk, has already
one professional, but he needs assistance.
Falk will help him by taking over the
coaching, now a full-time job.
* * * *
“Divot Digger”: Australia does not
specialise in the export of professional
golfers, Kirkwood being an outstanding
exception. A Wagga player named Ron
Hanes has resolved to try his luck in the
Malay States, where there are golf clubs
in plenty and any number of fellow-
Australians, mostly engaged in the tin-
dredging industry. Hanes is only 21.
Sarazen, when last here, spoke highly of
him as a shotmaker. Provided he isn’t
eaten by tigers, dissected by Malays run-
ning amuck or trampled by wild
elephants, Hanes should do well.
* * * *
“Divot Digger”: Walter Hagen has
just told the world that he intends to
win the coming open British champion-
ship, and gives reasons. It appears that
the principal factor in his loss of form
has been Mrs. Hagen. However, they
have been divorced, and the lady’s late
lord can now give his attention to things
more important than wives.
“Dinny” Shute, here with the Ameri-
can professionals, is still professional
champion of the U.S.A. after beating one
McSpadyen at the 37th. Shute goes to
England with the Yankee Ryder Cup
team, and will play in the British opem
which he won in 1935 after a play-off
with Craig Wood.
* * * *
“Hoylake”: Most of the papers, seem
to have missed the fact that Sweeny,
the winner of the British amateur cham-
pionship, was an American Rhodes
scholar at Oxford, and until recently cap-
tained the Oxford team. This suggests
that he owes as much to the Old World
as the New where his golf is concerned.
Munn, his British opponent in the final,
has for years specialised in Irish cham-
pionships, having won seven.
jj: Jfc * *
“Mrs. Gummidge”: All hearts must
go out to the gallant old girls who every
year in Melbourne admit the existence
of the gnawing tooth of time by enter-
ing for the veterans’ championship. No
other competition in the world that writer
knows of compels entrants to admit a
handicap which most of us, and the
fair sex especially, strive best to cover
up. If I thought I would get any bites
I would offer a cup for the champion
ancient sheik in Sydney golf. There are
plenty about, but they are far too young
in their own estimation to come at it,
pot-hunters as most of them are.
Racquet and Bawl
“Top Spin”: It is definite at last that
Quist is suffering from jaundice, which
is apt to be a troublesome affliction. He
will play no more tennis this tour, and
is to return home by the European route
as soon as he can leave the American
hospital. No doubt the continuous ex-
ploitation of this player for commercial
purposes has laid Quist open to attacks
of illness, as has been the case with
McGrath and others. He has had stiff
luck in all respects. Last year he lost
an even-money chance of getting his side
into the challenge round through lame-
ness.
* * * *
“E.D.”: Mr. Sproule, the manager of
the Davis Cup team, after the thunder-
bolt fell at Forest Hills:
We will take our defeat in good part,
just as the Americans did last year. We
will probably return next year with most
of the team, and if America takes the Cup
we will try to take it from her. We will in
all likelihood challenge in the American
zone, since we would be in a better posi-
tion for the tie. I believe that we can
account for Britain or Germany.
“We” are taking a lot for granted, aren’t
“we”?


AWAKE ALL NIGHT
WITH INDIGESTION
Now Sleeps Like a Top
—Thanks to Kruschen.
This man used to pass night after night
with hardly a wink of sleep. All the remedies
he tried failed to help him, until he started
taking a daily dose of Kruschen. That was
what he needed to put him right, and his letter
is a real proclamation of victory:
“I first started taking Kruschen Salts three
or four years ago. For years previously I had
suffered agony with indigestion. Night after
night for weeks on end I had very little sleep,
and I was becoming a wreck. Then I started
taking Kruschen —half-heartedly I will admit —
but after the first few doses my attacks grew
less and less. I kept on, and they completely
disappeared, and I have been a regular
‘Kruschenite’ ever since. I am now 50 years
of age, and I can eat anything at any time
without any ill effects. I sleep like a top —
thanks to Kruschen.” —J.H.C.
Kruschen is a combination of six natural
salts which stimulate your liver, kidneys and
digestive tract to healthy, regular activity. They
ensure internal cleanliness, and keep the blood-
stream pure.
Thousands
of Letters
have been written to 6AM in
appreciation. Tliou sands and
thousands ot listeners tune in
nightly to the Happy Station
of VV.A. . . .
Listeners from every corner of
the vast Golden West ...
Potential customers!
6AM
Prince’s Chambers,
William Street,
Perth,
Western Australia.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN”
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
SIES tc IF!Jill
by 20,000 ton steamers
EARLY JULY
4 0 13 AM A*
and
LATE JULY
4 012 IF'OK ID*
Carrying passengers in First
Saloon and Tourist Classes
At the end of August, R.M.S. "Otranto" will
cruise to Rabaul or other destination.
Oment line
CRUISING-
POWER
m
and
Mil
STILL
PQJ
✓2
/ B
LUCAS
BATTERIES
LUCAS SPARE PARTS AND BATTERY AGENTS.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: A. C. McCailum, Ltd., !)6 Murray Street, PERTH.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Hannan Bros., Ltd., 58-62 Flinders Street, ADELAIDE.
VICTORIA: Starting Lighting Ignition Pty., Ltd., 156 Lonsdale Street,
MELBOURNE.
NEW SOUTH WALES: Bennett & Wood, Ltd., Pitt and Bathurst Streets,
SYDNEY.
Moody & Company, 15 Goulburn Street, SYDNEY.
QUEENSLAND: El phinstones Pty., Ltd., corner Wharf and Adelaide Streets,
BRISBANE. Also at Toowoomba, Rockhampton, Townsville and Cairns.
TASMANIA: W. T. Burns, 46 Brisbane Street, HOBART.
H. C. Thompson Pty., Ltd., 97 Charles Street, LAUNCESTON.
ORIENT STEAM NAVIGATION CO. LTD. INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND
“Rev. Knucklebone”: Bromwich cap-
tured the only set won by the Austra-
lians at Forest Hills; and he took it
from Budge. Broadcasts describe. Craw-
ford as “frequently netting the ball. It
would appear from this that Soccer lost
a great centre forward when Jack toocv
to tennis.
* * * *
“Cut Shot”: The Americans now have
an easy time ahead of them, as their
next Davis Cup tie does not start until
July 17 at Wimbledon. Their opponents
will almost certainly be Germany, though
the Yugs may spring a last-moment sur-
prise in the European zone. However,
whoever wins this tie is assured in ad-
vance of the Davis Cup, for England s
awful showing in the French champion-
ships has made it evident that it hasn t
Buckley’s of hanging on to the pot.
XV**
“Rolande”: Germany retained the
French singles championship, though
Henkel, and not Von Cramm, last year’s
winner, was responsible. Henkel made
light work of Austin in the final, 6-1, 6-4,
6-3. Austin is not at his best off the
grass, but the German has admittedly im-
proved out of sight since last year, and
is now ranked with Von Cramm. So
sure, of him were the German tennis
heads that, though the doctors had with-
drawn their ban on Von Cramm playing
in the singles, they sent his partner up
against the Englishman. The Fatherland
scored in the women’s singles also, Frau
Sperling, of Denmark, who was German
Fraulein von Aussem, beating the French
championette, Mdme. Matthieu.
miscellaneous
“Fitzcray”: At the annual meeting of
the Australian Rowing Council in Mel-
bourne local delegates were lashed to
fury when someone questioned the suita-
bility of the Yarra for the King’s Cup
boatraces, to be held in Melbourne next
year. Someone pointed out that the only
other course available is on Lake Colac.
No mention was made of the Barwon,
where the G.P.S. regatta is held in alter-
nate years. No doubt the Yarra is un-
suitable, and there can be no objection
to holding the event away from Mel-
bourne. N.S.W. has had to shift its big
regattas from the Parramatta to the
Nepean, 30 miles away, and has had no
reason to regret the change.
* $ * *
“Backwoodsman”: Sydney is threat-
ened with a vast invasion of bowlers.
Huge contingents are coming from other
States as well as from Britain, M.L.,
Canada, South Africa and Fiji, with
others yet to be heard from. It is ex-
pected that after the Australian cham-
pionships are over the Australian win-
ners will strive with the other Empire
players for the Empire titles. Accom-
modation for the thundering horde is
going to be. a problem, and clubs are
being implored to get their greens —and
cellars, too, no doubt —ready for the
great emergency.
* * * *
“Aigburth”: Allen’s Australian team
beat a strong Rest of England side at
Lord’s by 69 runs. Worthington (156)
carried his bat through his team’s
first innings of 376 ; Stephenson, a can-
didate for Allen’s team last season, took
4 for 90 and Gover 3 for 76. The Rest
started with 235 (Jas. Langridge 80,
Stephenson 68 n. 0.; Allen 3 for 50).
Gover (5-14) was responsible for the
Eleven’s dismissal for 173 in its second
knock, Hammond scoring 45. The Rest
made 245.
* * * *
“Aigburth”: London “Daily Sketch”
hopes that the Imperial cricket confer-
ence will see to it that English players
get their share of rest. The article is
especially severe on unofficial tours which
take many players, especially profes-
sionals, abroad in the winter season, with
the result that they come back to start
a new English season tired to death of
the game. Another matter dealt with is
the growing tendency shown by county
clubs to import colonial and Dominion
players. It is pointed out that this policy
will oust two native-born Leicester
cricketers from the county team when
Mudge and Walsh return from abroad
with the Cahn team.
* * * *
“Iconoclast”: Seven Oaks Vine cricket
club in England is claiming to be the
oldest organisation of the. kind in the
world, having played its first match in
1734. Great oaks from little acorns
grow, and it is interesting to think that a
sport that has set half the English-speak-
ing world by the ears and tfie other
yawning to the point of jaw dislocation
originated in this seemingly innocent little
Kentish hamlet. If the. claim is correct
it quite extinguishes the pretensions of
Hambledon and Mitcham. The ancient
club’s members must have been a careful
lot. Only this year is the 200-year-old
pavilion being replaced by a new one.


LOOK AT THESE AMAZING PRICES.
%
Remington Portable (4 bank) £lO 0 0
Remington Standard £7 15 0
Remington Noiseless £ll 10 0
and a large selection of other makes of typewriters from £5/10/-.
These give you an idea of the bargains Chartres offer. Chartres’
easy terms are available. ’Phone, write or call at Chartres, and a
machine will be delivered to your home or office for free trial, for
Chartres’ service vans cover almost the whole of N.S.W. This
places you under no obligation.
FREE CARBON PAPER.
See Chartres’ great display of reconditioned typewriters to-day.
If you cannot call, write for full particulars. And when you buy
your typewriter, be sure to present a clipping of this advertise-
ment. It entitles you to a FREE, generous-sized packet of carbon
paper—enough to last for many months.
CHARTRES, LTD.,
Liverpool and Nitlisdale Sts., Sydney (’Phone M 6481—11 lines).
Also at South British Insurance Bldgs.,, Bolton St., Newcastle.
The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
Fire, Marine and Accident Insurances
effected at Lowest Current Rates
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims.
BRANCHES IN ALL STATES.
’Phone (three lines): 87361.
R. EAAVNSLEY MOSS, Chairman.
129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
R. A. MANZIEj General Manager.
SHADOW
SHOWS
“Three Smart Girls.”
FLAPPERS .. Deanna Durbin, Barbara
Read, Nan Grey
THEIR FATHER, Charles Winninger
GOLD-DIGGER Binnie Barnes
GOLD-DIGGER’S MA .. Alice Brady
This light and amusing comedy deals
with the plots and stratagems of three
young girls to prevent their father
(divorced) marrying a platinum blonde
who loves his cash. Aided by some of
their father’s business associates the girls
hire a Hungarian count (Mischa Auer)
to alienate the fair-haired lady’s affec-
tions, but he gets drunk and loses the
magazine he was to carry so that the girls
could identify him, they having never
met him. Magazine is picked up by
British viscount, who, however, gal-
lantly carries out the plot.
The three girls who give the film its
name are all, it is claimed, new to the
Walter Connolly in “Let’s Get Married,”
at Sydney Regent.
screen. The youngest of them, Miss
Durbin, has a flexible light soprano
voice, good throughout its range and un-
strained even on the high C, which is
exercised frequently, but unfortunately
most of the recordings are faulty. That
she is a most accomplished singer is
proved by her rendition of the Arditi
waltz song “II Bacio” towards the end
of the film, in which the recording is all
that it should be. At Sydney Regent.
“Let’s Get Married.”
EARNEST METEOROLOGIST,
Ralph Bellamy
STORMY IRISH GIRL .. Ida Lupino
HER TAMMANY-BOSS
DAD Walter Connolly
UNSUCCESSFUL SUITOR,
Reginald Denny
THE PERFECT SECRETARY,
Raymond Walburn
The casting, coupled with the as-
usual-efficient Columbia direction, is a
guarantee that this film provides good
entertainment, though it isn’t strikingly
original. The plot can be summed up
by stating that the meteorologist, for
love of the girl, made what he felt to be
a false weather prediction. It turned out
true and covered him with glory. Syd-
ney’s Mr. Mares should be interested in
this film, for the local color includes all
the gadgets in the weather-forecaster’s
tool-kit, together with an entirely new
one that enables the prophet to spot rain
six days before it comes along.
Miss Lupino, though most of the time
she looks more like a drowned rat than
a glamorous fillum star, owing to a habit
of chasing her hot-tempered lover
through tropical rain, either to throw
things at him or kiss him, puts up a lively
performance. At Sydney Regent.
“Top of the Town.”
SWING HOUND .... George Murphy
HIS AIDES,
Gregory Ratoff, Hugh Herbert
WEALTHY SHOWGIRL, Doris Nolan
SUPER-CROONERS,
Ella Logan, Gertrude Niesen
In this medley of swing bands, comedy,
crooning and dancing, the real stars do
not appear among the headliners; they
are a trio of irrepressible sailors —Jason,
Robson and Blue —who perform some
clever antics with hands, feet and voices.
A lot less yawping and howling and
saxophone shrieking and more of the
comedy these three put over and the
picture might have been a clinker, for it
has gaiety, life, some wit, clever danc-
ing and spectacular settings. Dreadful
things have been done to a few harmless
octaves by a platoon of Tin Pan Alley
composers, the resultant cacophony being
shrieked nasally at frequent intervals by
two determined females. The plot has
something to do with milk-and-water
vicissitudes of a callow dance-band
leader, all of whose thoughts, if any, are
devoted to torch and swing music. At
Sydney Liberty.
“Three Married Men.”
BRIDE Mary Brian
’GROOM Roscoe Karns
MALE RELATIVES,
William Frawley, Lynne Overman
FEMALE DITTO .. Marjorie Gateson
The fun commences with the wedding
of the son and daughter of two families
all other members of which whole-
heartedly detest each other. Petty bick-
erings even at the reception, held at the
bride’s brother’s place, threaten to mar
things, but eventually the couple depart
peaceably for the honeymoon. There-
after the fun becomes uproarious. To
impress his bride with his wild, romantic
streak, the ’groom stuns her by his
initial appearance in riotous Russian
pyjamas with a funny little cap. She
goes into a fit of uncontrollable laugh-
“The Country Cousin” bearing off the
prize this cartoon won. At Sydney
Regent.
ter which makes him huffy, and the first
row kicks off. They go home to their
respective parents, and the rest is devoted
to the efforts of the bridegroom’s two
hard-headed brothers-in-law to fix things
up.
All members of the cast throw them-
selves into their roles with zest, types
are drawn mercilessly and skilful direc-
tion has made the piece into a genuine
laugh-raiser. At Sydney Civic.
“The Return of Sophie Lang.”
EX-JEWEL-LIFTER, Gertrude Michael
HER OLD ASSOCIATE,
Sir Guy Standing
PRESSMAN Ray Milland
WEALTHY JEWEL-FANCIER,
Elizabeth Patterson
Smooth acting, brisk action and, for
a thriller, a feasible story make this good
entertainment.
When a beautiful ex-jewel thief, sup-
posed to have died, is travelling on a
liner as companion to a wealthy old lady
Charles Winninger in “Three Smart
Girls,” at Sydney Regent.
who has a priceless jewel in her posses-
sion, the girl’s old accomplice, acciden-
tally meeting her, naturally refuses to
believe that she has abandoned her old
ways. When the wily old scoundrel
gets the diamond the reformed lass
promptly confesses to her employer who
she is—or was. The old lady turns up
trumps, a bond of affection having been
formed between the women. With the
aid of a young pressman the younger
woman sets about getting the bauble
back, which produces plenty of excite-
ment, rounded off with a dash of
romance. At Sydney Civic.
“Men Are Not Gods.”
GALLERY GIRL .... Miriam Hopkins
HER THEATRICAL IDOL,
Sebastian Shaw
HER YOUNG MAN .. Rex Harrison
A slow-moving English serio-comedy
piece about a Shakspearean actor and a
flapper who develops a crush on him.
As a contrast to English types such as
the actor and a dramatic critic, who are
almost incredibly snooty, Miss Hopkins
goes all Pollyannaish, sharing such mild
murmurs of amusement as she evokes
with Mr. Harrison, who, as her reporter-
sweetheart, indulges in some improbable
eccentricities of manner. The climax,
the threat of a real murder in the last
act of “Othello,” is old stuff. Vaunted
as an Alexander Korda production, but
not likely to add lustre to the name. At
Sydney Mayfair.
“Crime Over London.”
AMERICAN GANGSTER, Basil Sydney
MILLIONAIRE AND HIS
DOUBLE Joseph Cawthorn
DETECTIVE-INSPECTOR,
Paul Cavanagh
IRRELEVANT GIRL, Margot Grahame
Possibly Mr. Sydney’s idea of Joker
Finnegan, N’Yark gangster who brought
his merry men to London, is as near the
mark as Hollywood impersonations of
such engaging characters, but if so they
must go to some trouble to assume the
disguise of an Oxford accent. Overlook-
ing such little trifles, the thriller has its
points. It moves fairly rapidly, has all
the expected features —such as a bump-
ing-off and a beautiful lady who lures
suckers into a gambling den—and winds
up with happiness for a rich young man
and his insipid sweetheart. At Sydney
Mayfair.
“Mountain Justice.”
HILL-BILLY FATHER, Robert Barrat
REBELLIOUS DAUGHTER,
Josephine Hutchinson
CITY LAWYER George Brent
MOUNTAIN DOCTOR .. Guy Kibbee
As grim in its realism as the Ken-
tucky hill country that is its setting.
Jeff Harkins is an example of the
warped mentality of the hill-billies.
Narrow, crafty, cruel, fanatical, he has
arranged for his eldest daughter to marry
a mountaineer with a brain as cramped
as his own. She has other ideas, includ-
ing the starting of maternity clinics, with
the town doctor’s aid, to baulk the high
mortality caused through the prevalence
of the disease “Grandmother’s advice.”
Marriage with a city lawyer who has
successfully prosecuted her father for
shooting a power company’s rep. is also
in her programme.
The father’s hatred blazes up against
his daughter on his release from a short
term in prison, and, on her flat refusal
to marry the man he has chosen, and be-
lieving she has enticed her younger sister
to leave home with her, he flogs her
brutally. In the struggle he passes out
and the daughter is tried. The moun-
tain jury ignores the medical testimony
that he died from heart failure, and finds
her guilty of murder, but a way is in-
geniously found to a happy ending.
Acting by the principals is excellent,
and Marcia May Jones does a neat job
as the terror-stricken younger sister. At
Sydney Capitol.
“Girl Overboard.”
SUSPECTED MURDERER.
Gloria Stuart
DISTRICT ATTORNEY, Walter Pidgeon
Two girls board a luxury liner to
escape the attentions of their unscrupu-
lous employer, who follows to persuade
one of them, his star mannequin, to
return. There’s a row, and in a scuffle
in the cabin he is killed by the other
girl, unknown to the mannequin. In a
fire at sea the murderer perishes, but her
Mischa Auer in “Three Smart Girls.”
pal, returned rescued, finds herself
wanted for the crime. Circumstances
permit her to assume the other’s iden-
tity, and a shipboard affection for a
young boy whose mother was a victim
of the disaster brings her to the boy’s
father, who is District Attorney.
Romance blooms, and the subsequent
working out follows well-worn grooves.
At Sydney Capitol.
“Waikiki Wedding.”
CROONER Bing Crosby
COMPETITION WINNER, Shirley Ross
COMIC RELIEF,
Martha Raye and Bob Burns
A musical-comedy version of Hono-
lulu, with plenty of flowers, ukeleles, fine
photography of a yacht in the moonlight,
native dances and generous gulps of real
fun, all threaded round a plot which
serves the purpose well enough. The
Pineapple Girl wins a competition run
by Pineapples, Ltd., and comes to Hono-
lulu on her success trip, but the directors


fs
WtMBBSBSBBBB/BSSSt
■I
mm
ifc. m.
nm
m
■
0 %
n
wf Wm «* 3
i: - '
g m
VJ
HHI»
sw:&
■ ,
• v;-v
18
:
a :.,
* ii
iiPiMM
HraMaHHnl
, 1 -, :
as
m s kk ■&. * «.
199 Young Street,
ANNANDALE.
Dear Sirs,
I am enclosing the photograph of my three children,
all of whom have been fed on your Arnott’s “Milk
Arrowroot” Biscuits from the age of six months.
You can use the photograph of the three boys if
you wish for advertising purposes.
The youngest one, in the centre, is Kevin Lindsay
Fokes, four years old, who has been reared on your
Famous Milk Arrowroot Biscuits from the age of six
months, and I highly recommend them.
Yours faithfully,
( Signed ) Mrs. O. Fokes.
During the past half-century over 40,000
photographs of strong, vigorous children
reared from the age of six months on
Arnott’s Famous Milk Arowroot Biscuits have
been sent with testimonials by grateful
mothers to William Arnott, Limited.
Qmottls
MILK ARROWROOT
BISCUITS
Always ask your Grocer for Arnott’s
“They are Better than E¥er”
of Pineapples are old, ugly and unimagi-
native, and Georgie is ready to cut the
publicity and make for home when the
crooner (also an employee of the firm)
provides romance with synthetic kidnap-
ping, volcano eruptions to order and
vocal gurglings on land and sea. Shirley
Ross as the Pineapple heroine is satis-
factory to look at and listen to. Bing’s
crooning is as usual, and he acts natu-
rally enough. Martha Raye, plain and
clever, is full of beans and comic oddi-
ties, and Bob Burns as her offisider has
a pet pig who knows his cues for grunt-
ing and sucks milk out of a bottle. There
is also a monkey whose brief appearance
is hilarious. At Melbourne Capitol.
“Her Husband Lies.”
GAMBLERS,
Ricardo Cortez and Tom Brown
GOIL Gail Patrick
GANGSTER Akim Tamiroff
The film has one tense moment of
drama, during a poker game, and an
ending unexpected and as satisfactory a
way out of the tangle as the circum-
stances warrant. Tom Brown is a re-
pulsively bumptious bit of work, as much
a master-gambler as his colleague Cortez.
Cortez intends to clean up his young
buddy and cure him, but the cocky
youngster has all the luck. Gail Patrick
croons some dirges as Cortez’s beloved
but neglected cabaret-artist wife. Akim
Tamiroff is leader of a gang of gunmen.
At Melbourne Capitol.
“The Country Cousin.”
A Walt Disney creation in techni-
color, setting forth adventures of a coun-
try mouse who accepts an invitation to
visit his cousin in New York. At first
every prospect is pleasing. A table set
for a great banquet offers delicacies new
and beautiful. But the rural mouse is
indiscreet. He drains a glass of cham-
pagne with strange results. Seeing him-
self reflected in a jelly, he fights that
jelly to a finish, its quavering walls
throwing back the image of a mouse in
all sorts of belligerent postures. Then,
full of Dutch courage, country mouse
kicks a huge black cat. This is his un-
doing. The cat pursues him into the
crowded street, where there is a night-
mare chase under pedestrians’ feet and
the tyres of thousands of hurrying motor-
cars. When last seen country mouse is
heading for rural parts. At Sydney
Regent.
STAGE SHOWS.
Moiseiwitsch in Melbourne.
Benno Moiseiwitsch had a full house
for his reappearance in Melbourne at the
Town Hall on Saturday. He played Bee-
thoven’s “Andante Favori” and the
“Appassionata” ; then, after that titanic
effort, resumed his seat at the Steinway
and glided from a ballade by Chopin into
a nocturne and then two waltzes and the
B-minor Scherzo. After the intermission
he fingered his way through two pre-
ludes by Rachmaninoff, the “Suggestions
Diaboliques” of Prokofieff and a fragile
thing by the ill-fated Spaniard Granados,
and concluded his recital, except for the
customary encores, with the extraordi-
narily difficult Brahms variations on a
theme by Paganini. His final item was
an exercise for the left hand about which
there was no deception, but which most
listeners who could not see him would
have sworn required two hands, and two
of no ordinary expertness.
Whatever may be said of the quality of
Moiseiwitsch’s interpretations, the im-
pression he conveyed was of an indi-
vidual who played with the same ob-
sessive intensity as he did when a young
man. He frequently wiped his face,
which never changed its expression of
absorbed solemnity, and the total
absence of histrionic attitudes increased
the effect of a man who believed in what
he was doing and brought the same con-
centrated energy to the doing of it as
Bradman does to the knocking up of a
century.
The audience was slow to rise to the
occasion, but at the finish strenuously
objected to Moisiewitsch going home to
his supper.
*J» *1*
Russian Ballet.
Strong liking for comedy in ballets
was demonstrated by the audience’s re-
ception of “La Boutique Fantasque,”
danced with great elan in the second of
the return-season programmes at Sydney
Royal. The can-can dancers, Kirsova
and Woizikowsky, threw themselves into
their roles with fine frenzy, with Roland
Guerard adding a whimsical humor as
the snob. Stravinsky’s overrated “Fire-
bird” was less appealing, despite excel-
lent dancing by Blinova, Branitzka and
Valentin Froman. The “Hundred Kisses”
admirably demonstrated the lithe grace
of Yousskeviteh and Youchkevitch.
“Les Sylphides,” with its perfect
background of Chopin waltzes, mazurkas
and prelude, brought the whole of the
corps de ballet in, each a premiere
danseuse. Blinova, Golovina and Bran-
itzka danced it with neat precision. In
“La Beau Danube” the easily-followed
story was unfolded to the strains of the
younger Johann Strauss’s delightful
music. Kirsova, Golovina and the Woizi-
kowskies made it live.
“Contes Russes,” making its first Syd-
ney bow, proved to be a series of nine
weird Russian folk tales choreographed
by Massine. Some are colorful, but most
of them, without the stories as a guide,
appear senseless. The series nevertheless
gives opportunities to the entire com-
pany. Liadoff’s music is undistinguished.
Leon Woizikowsky, Nina Raievska and
Irena Bondariva gave classical exhibi-
tions.
v *!• *l* v*
“Princess Ida” at Sydney Con
“Princess Ida” —the title-role in the
melodious safekeeping of Elsie Brown —
was admirably put on at Sydney Con. by
the G. and S. Society. The revelry of
Hilarion Frank Johnstone and his two
side-kickers, Frank Nolan (Cyril) and
Sydney Denman (Florian), in Castle
Adamant was calculated to make
sticklers for the Savoy tradition wiggle
their beards in despair, but the group
boasts some pleasant voices, and both
carolling and miming were good. As
cantankerous Gama, Osmund Wenban
scored the hit of the evening, with Stan-
ley Buddie a dignified Hildebrand, Elma
Armstead a comely Professor of
Humanities and Winifred Tompson a
coquettish Melissa. Not the least pleas-
ing part of Gordon Ramsay’s well-
dressed production was the singing of
the chorus.
•b -b
Ujhelyi—Violinist.
One of the great masters of the fiddle,
Ujhelyi, is in Sydney and is to give a
recital at the Con. on June 15, when he
will show his paces in such classics
as the Bach Chaconne, the “Devil’s Trill”
Sonata of Tartini and the Paganini-Wil-
helmj Concerto in D. Sometime leader of
the San Francisco Symphony Orchestra,
Ujhelyi, who has travelled widely, has
been acclaimed as a great virtuoso in
Vienna, Rome and Berlin.
CURRENT ARTBURSTS.
Adelaide Shows.
The Ernest Buckmaster show in Adel-
aide has caused a striking difference of
opinion, the public enthusiastic about
the effects obtained, the experts dubious
about the facile method of obtaining
them. The Society of Arts gallery is now
occupied by Gwen Barringer, whose
recent leisurely journey round the coast,
from the Coorong in S.A. to Sydney,
varies her gum-trees and flower-
pieces with cliffs and shore scenery of
all three States. Her style is striking ;
indeed, one local critic has called it
“virile.”
*1* *1* -I- •i’
Old Prints and Drawings.
At the Macquarie Galleries was staged
an interesting collection of drawings by
European masters. These included sketches
attributed to Turner and Tiepolo (Mel-
bourne Gallery bought about an acre of
the latter some time ago), some very bad
drawings by George Cattermole, a couple
of bright pen sketches by Charles Keene,
and some David Roberts prints of scenes
in the Levant. Pride of the show was a
collection of remarkably fine reproduc-
tions of Dtirer drawings. Diirer, per-
haps, fell short of genius, but his talent
and versatility as a draughtsman still
shine brightly.
*S* *1*
Sydney Show of Camera Pictures.
David Jones’s George-street gallery
houses a brave array of photographs by
Sydney photographers, most of them,
apparently, professionals. There are so
many photographs and so many exhibitors
that any sort of detailed survey is out of
the question. In a quick tour of the
show what most readily caught the eye
were the open-air girls of W. G. Buckle,
the unusual lighting effects contrived by
L. Hinton-Witts, the poetic landscapes of
Cecil Bostock, the cleverly-lit nudes of
Max Dupain and Lawrence Le Guay, the
very sound commercial photography of
Reg Johnson, George J. Moore’s pic-
turesque street scenes, F. B. Millington’s
birds and beasts, Monte Luke’s portraits,
Hartland and Hyde’s versatility and the
excellent panels staged by the “S. M.
Herald” and “Daily Telegraph.”


Bartz — Saits of the Earth
Drugs are only a temporary relief, but BARTZ,
the IMPROVED MINERAL SPRING TONIC
SALTS, is Nature’s own remedy for excessive
fat, headaches, rheumatic pains, sleeplessness,
giddiness, high blood pressure, constipation, etc.
Obtainable all Chemists and Stores, price
1/- and 2/-, or direct post free. Cheaper and
better. Sole distributors,
British Colonial & Eastern Chemicals, Ltd.,
<j.s-69 York Street, Sydney. ’Phone: BWC6OI.
Corns Sentenced to Death.
Corns have worried you—now worry them:
although “worry” is hardly the word, for
A’CORN SILK does not trifle with corns, but
ruthlessly kills them. How comfortable your
feet feel after A’CORN SILK has removed
all your soft or hard corns —a 6d. packet will
do this for you without pain or inconvenience.
Corns are killed while you sleep—a matter of
a few hours. Chemists sell A’CORN SILK at
6d per packet. Packed by Felton, Grimwade
and Duerdins, Ltd., Melbourne.
Divorce Notice.
IN
OF
TO
THE SUPREME COURT
QUEENSLAND.
Matrimonial Jurisdiction.
LEONARD SIGFRID MALMSTONE
(properly called Leonard Sigfrid Malm-
strom) formerly of Brisbane in the State
of Queensland but whose present where-
abouts are unknown.
TAKE NOTICE that an action has been com-
menced against you in the Supreme Court of
Oueensland at Brisbane aforesaid numbered 236
of 1937 by NORAH MARY MALMSTONE
your wife in which she claims a dissolution of
her marriage with you and by her petition filed
herein she alleges that since in or about the
month of February 1921 at Normanby Hill Kelvin
Grove Brisbane aforesaid you without cause de-
serted her and have so deserted her continuously
for five years and upwards to the present time
AND it has been ordered that service of the
Writ of Summons and petition on you be
effected by serving the same on your mother
within fourteen days from the 24th May 1937
and by the insertion of this notice twice in the
“Courier-Mail” a newspaper published at Bris-
bane aforesaid twice in the “Sydney Morning
Herald” a newspaper published at Sydney in
the State of New South Wales and once in The
Bulletin a newspaper published at Sydney
aforesaid If you desire to defend this action
you must within fifty-one days from the date of
the last act done as aforesaid enter an appear-
ance at the said Registry and in default of such
appearance the Plaintiff may proceed in the
action and judgment may be entered against
you.
DATED this Second day of June, 1937.
(1.5.) J. S. GIBSON, ,
Second Deputy-Registrar.
JAMES CRAWFORD & WILLIAMSON,
Solicitors for the said Norah Mary Malmstone,
Justice Chambers, Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Sydney stepped right out of her role on
the first day of June. Forgetting that she
is cast for the insouciant Southern Maid
with a rose between her lips, she turned
over a cold shoulder a gaze as bleak as
any harridan’s. It was bad enough for
humans buttoned up in topcoats and
furry pelts, but the statues around the
fcity looked very nipped about the nose.
Even the fully-clad males posed along
Macquarie-street were pitiable. The
wispily-attired allegorical figures in the
Gardens and those about the rim of the
Archibald Fountain caused the blood to
congeal!
Lady Wakehurst is doing her job with
great thoroughness. No sooner had she
returned from Canberra than she spread
a kiddies’ party. Sons Christopher and
David were the hosts, and it was their
frivol before going off to school (Tudor
House) at Bowral. A Mickey Mouse
picture helped with the fun, and a party
tea was laid in the ballroom. Anothei
group of young Australians whose ac-
quaintance was made by the Governor s
wife last week was the new citizen force
at the Royal Hospital for Women at
Paddington. This visit was the fulfil-
ment of a promise made by Lady Wake-
hurst before her illness. Matron Major-
West proudly showed off the babies, and
later the vice-regal visitor and Hermione
Llewellyn, who accompanied her, were
entertained at tea.
While Moiseiwitsch was whipping up
the circulation of his Town Hall audi-
ence with his playing of Chopin, one
thousand Sydneyites were putting the
ruby glow into their blood cells at the
Trocadero. Dancing almost non-stop
was the order there, for the night was
very chill. The Australian Flying Corps
Ball had hung out its sign—an Air Force
flag of striking dimensions —in the vesti-
bule of the Troc., and what with the
lighting and the soft carpets, the great
centrepiece that is always a burst of
bloom and tops the matey-looking con-
versation seat, the place sent out a cheery
invitation to the dance.
There weren’t so many aeroplanes in
the table decorations this year, but there
were enough balloons to fit out a dozen
carnivals. The long, low trough of
flowers showed its popularity as a table
decoration. Red roses, carnations and
purple pansies bloomed in this setting
along the official table, at which the
president of the association, Major A.
W. L. Ellis, and Mrs. Ellis entertained.
Mrs. Ellis’s ivory frock was patterned
with a lacquered design in red, blue and
gold. Mayoress Parkes was in this group
in her ermine cape and her violet-and-
silver frock. Charles Rosenthal came
with his lady ; the General Lloyd couple,
Colonel Lorenzo and his wife and the
Keith Morrises were all there.
The Pat Manleys were keen dancers.
Her salvia-red chiffons had the shoulder
scarves thickly embroidered with silver.
Mrs. Charles Ulm and Mrs. Terry were
seen. The Flying Corps’ wings in poin-
settia and violets marked the table where
Flying-Officer H. C. Durant and his wife
entertained. The Snowden lady presented
the eight debs, to the Mayoress. With
her frock of blonde lace she wore pearls.
The Cobcrofts can always be relied on
for striking dress effects, and Muriel
(Babe) Cobcroft’s wedding outfit might
have had a march specially composed
for it. The frock of snow-white matt
velvet had a Lady of Shalott suggestion.
From a square neckline it was moulded
on slender lines and was ground-length.
The train was of two panels falling from
the waistline. Somewhere near the hem
of the skirt they were caught together,
and then flowed again. The sleeves
were long and fitting. Just the right ac-
companiment were the arum-lilies the
bride carried. The waist-length veil of
tulle that blew out stiff in the wind that
whipped around St. Mark’s Church was
held to her head by small lilies made of
white velvet. Not unnoted as she passed
was the blue fire of her sapphire pen-
dant, lent her by sister Mrs. Gun-
ning, who attended her. Dove-grey
chiffons under a dove-grey redingote,
flared and trained, were worn by Mrs.
Gunning.
The bridegroom, Francis Graham,
comes from Melbourne’s Toorak, so
there were Victorians as well as country
people to hear Canon Howard Lea put
the leading questions. More country
people would have been at the church
and later at Elizabeth Bay House but
for the snow that had caught Bathurst
unawares. The bride’s parents, the C. V.
Cobcrofts, of Point Piper, could feel
proud of the reception that went off suc-
cessfully in an aura of wax candles,
white camellias and the soft flame of
wood fires. A honeymoon in Papua is
planned.
City Librarian C. H. Bertie, whose
knowledge of old Sydney and Aus-
traliana is exceeded by none, had a wed-
ding in his family last week. Daughter
Barbara became Mrs. Allen Taylor at
“Shore” chapel, thus keeping her
romance strictly to the north side of
the harbor. The Bertie home is at Woll-
stonecraft, the ’groom is of a well-known
Neutral Bay family, and “Shore” is
North Sydney. The pretty bride was all
white and silver and lily-of-the-valley.
Mrs. Bertie presided at the reception in
sapphire-blue satin caped in kolinsky.
The Women Pioneers boiled their first
billy in their new clubrooms last Thurs-
day. The club is now at 61 Market-
street. The rooms are cosy, but not so
large as the Pioneers’ first home in Mac-
quarie-street. All the treasures are in
place, and at their housewarming presi-
dent Mrs. Lingham and secretary Car-
lotta Doyle wore the smile that triumphs
over difficulties.
Lady Gowrie’s entrance to the Theatre
Royal the other night caused a buzz of
excitement. It was her first appearance
in public here since her return from
England. With her were the Governor-
General, private secretaries and aides.
The Ballet was on its toes all that even-
ing. Thursday afternoon saw Lady
Gowrie and a small party at the Moisei-
witsch concert in the Town Hall, in the
vice-regal group was the wife of the
pianist.
Polo is just around the corner. Re-
minders came last week through the post
in the form of a square foot or two of
invitation card. The party is the yearly
tea-after-polo staged in Dudley Cup
Week. This year the invitations com-
mence “To Meet Lady Wakehurst.”
There are the names of 62 hostesses on
the card, a fair-rsized merrymaking in
themselves. Elizabeth Bay House will be
the scene of action. This is always one
of the bright parties of Polo Week.
Saturday night saw another crowded
house at the Ballet, and once again the
women in front added butterfly hues to
the glitter on the stage. Mrs. C. V.
Walker brought jade velvets wrapped in
rich brown furs. Diamonds end ermine
struck the right note with Mrs. C. L.
Jones’s satin frock that held peacock
gleams and ended, in the new way, just
above the ankles. The wife of France’s
Vice-Consul Meyer had one of the love-
liest wraps present. It was of squirrel
and of artful cut'. The Bertie Kellys
brought a party, Anne Lane-Poole among
them. Mrs. Kelly’s coat, a handsome
affair in gold lame, had the swallowtail
dip. Baritone Dickie McLaughlin brought
some Maoriland friends, among them
Pamela Beauchamp and her mother.
Pamela’s frock was of hyacinth-velvet.
Vivid Ginette Scamps proved how attrac-
tive grey can be. Frock and cape were
in this quiet shade.
The Cobbitty Club’s polo at Kyeemagh
was a washout on Friday owing to the
rain, and on Saturday, from a spec-
tacular point of view, was dismal enough.
The players’ womenfolk were faithful,
and went out' by carloads on both days.
In raincoats, topcoats and rubbers they
faced the weather and seemed to enjoy
it. Mrs. Wallace Horsley was out on
both days. Camden enthusiasts included
Jacqueline and Suzanne Crookston. Mrs.
Jim Macleod, all in brown, Phyllis
Downes and the Curtis Skenes were
among those whose enthusiasm the ram
could not uncurl. The C.W.A. Ball in the
Agricultural Hall at Camden and the
Edward Macarthur Onslow dance at
Macquarie Grove were the. social round-
off to the polo.
As pleasant a group of women as Syd-
ney holds are those of the Nellie Stewart
Memorial Club. This has a little home
in Hosking-place. The walls are deco-
rated with photographs of Sweet Nell,
and there is a picture of the garden to
her memory which was one of the club s
works last year. In Nellie Stewarts
name a hospital bed is maintained, and
now the club is calling for designs for a
medallion in bronze of the actress s head.
This is to be the centrepiece of the
Garden of Memory. President Mrs.
W. E. Ardill is proud that “We pay as
we go” has almost been adopted as the
club’s motto.
“Lovers and Luggers,” the new Cine-
sound picture, is under way, and Sunday
afternoon saw all hands and the cook
on deck to welcome leading-man Lloyd
Hughes and his pretty young wife. Lloyd
himself has the rosy bloom of youth and
a cold climate still in his cheeks. He
doesn’t drink and doesn’t smoke, and is
the proud father of two children (very
small ones). Mrs. Hughes remarked that
she never saw greener grass nor fatter
sheep than at Auckland. She further
added that she wanted to see the koalas,
and buy some of “your lovely Australian
tweeds.” Mrs. Baume had a Peter Pan
collar of fur on her black coat. Shirley
Ann Richards was at the party ; saying
she’d have to be at the studio before
seven on Monday morning, this would
mean being out of bed by five. She
said it didn’t matter ; there’d probably
be a moon and some stars. But the
weather had a surprise for her —it handed
out a cyclone instead. Business man-
ager Garner and Nancy Gurr helped the
party go. Mrs. Ken Hall’s squirrel muff
on a cord was more tempting than brim-
ming beaker and Russian savory.
Among the distinguished and famous
singers Australia has produced, Carrie
Lanceley has a high place. This gener-
ous singer, with the notable lyric soprano
voice, last week handed over to the
music section of the municipal library
about 100 works —opera and oratorio.
This gift will swell the foundation
library of music given by Lute Drum-
mond as a memorial to her singing
sister Jean. Some of this music before
Miss Lanceley owned it had belonged to
the late Andrew Black, an added interest
to the music student. Raymond Sawyer
photograph.
The- Composers and Authors’ Society,
of which S. A. Rosa is president, gave a
dinner last week in honor of this veteran
journalist and writer. There was quite a
company at the Dungowan for the occa-
sion, Aubrey Halloran presided and Dr.
Mackaness (now busy on his life of Gov-
ernor Phillip) brought Mrs. Mackaness to
the official table. Secretary Glenn
McGarritty, who blew busily about in
rose chiffons, played accompaniments
for a programme of song she had
arranged from among the members.
Eileen Andrews lifted a soprano voice of
high altitude, and Elsie Condon a con-
tralto of dusky sweetness. Charles Davis
played his own compositions. Dulcie
Deamer and Lillian Mitchell acted as
hostesses. Wife of poet R. J. Cassidy,
who was a guest, had herself been, on the
Saturday previous, the centre of a party
which paid her tribute for her work m
helping to found the Fellowship of Aus-
tralian Writers.
The Military took possession of the
Trocadero again when the sth Heav>
Brigade R.A.A. held -its annual ball.
There was, however, nothing martial
about the tread when the soldiers and
their girls stepped out to the music ot
“The Blue Danube.” Scarlet and blue,
the brigade colors, flashed everywhere,
from the balloons aloft to the flowers
and the lacquered laurel leaves on the
tables. Regimental airs, played in a
blood-stirring manner by the R.A.A.
band, greeted the arriving guests. This
was one of the smart dances of the week,
and woman wore her loveliest and best
C.O. Major Royce Shannon, together
with Major C. A. Ord and Mrs. Ord,
received official people.
Among these were Acting-Minister of
Defence Thorby and daughter Sylvia.
Sylvia, like Mrs. Ord, followed the latest
color note, and wore pink. Mrs. Ord s
frock was of a pale shade/ in satin, a
nice contrast the wine-colored shouldei
knot. Mrs. Harry Bundock came with
her Colonel. A short cape of gold edged
with fur topped her delicate brocades.
The Captain Scott couple were there,
and the Navy was further represented by
Captain and Mrs. J. U. P. Fitzgerald.
Joyce Beazley was distinctive in black
velvet, its neckline outlined in small white
velvet flowers. June Lloyd was a pretty
girl in blue; Faith Macarthur Onslow
was among the dancers. Ena Edwards
sashed blue romaines with petunia.
Sydney will be the bright spot of the
State during its 150th celebrations if
Alderman Marks has any say in it. He
pointed out (and, now that Coronation
time is over, this Letter agrees with him)
that the illuminations during the recent
glad week put a poor twinkle into the
city. He might have added more and
said that Sydney was a poor imitation of
a decorated city. Strip lighting and
bands —lots of bands —are advocated by
Mr. Marks for the centenary-and-a-half.
Certainly nothing on the streets of
Sydney during the Coronation period is
likely to meet with the plaudits (and
help pay its own expenses) won by the
decoration of St. James’s-street, London,
during Victorian rejoicings. The shops
and clubs in that aristocratic thorough-
fare combined in a common scheme, and
the street was made gay with festoons
and garlands of artificial flowers. Later
the Birmingham Council bought the
complete outfit for a local rejoicing.
Ex-pupils of Woodcourt revived
memories of their old school when they
met in Hordern Brothers’ ballroom. The
Sunbeam Kindergarten at Alexandria
will benefit by the night’s dancing. Mrs.
Donald Murray, the president, hostessed
at a table decorated with golden flowers,
and Mrs. Hunt, who was Woodcourt’s
principal, wore in her black velvet frock
a spray of golden pansies presented by
her former pupils.


S&-&SK•HS&vSSS
I ig; i gpl
■
am
m
NC
%4
5*
m
*
j
/
■rn
Exposed—^/
Protected
against Wintry Weather
THERE is no ‘better protection
against wintry weather than your
own natural powers of resistance
strengthened and maintained by
drinking delicious “Ovaltine” regu-
larly every day.
Scientifically prepared from the finest
of Nature’s protective foods,
“Ovaltine” is supremely rich in the
protective vitamins and all the nutri-
tive elements needed to build up
abundant vitality and perfect health
of body, brain and nerves.
“Ovaltine” will help more than any-
thing to keep you free from coughs,
colds, influenza and other winter ills.
TRIAL SAMPLE of “Ovaltine,” sufficient
to make four cupsful, will be sent on
receipt of 3d. in stamps to cover cost of
packing and postage.
PRICES:
1/9, 2/10, 5/-
At all Chemists
and Stores.
OVALTINE
tyour Best JJealthguard
A. WANDER LIMITED, 1 YORK STREET NORTH, SYDNEY.
022.18.37
THE CALL OF THE TROPICS
CAIRNS
BY SEA
The Incomparable Winter Holiday
26 DAYS OF DELIGHTFUL
TRAVEL AND SIGHTSEEING
Pass through the world-famed Whitsunday Passage on one of the
Luxurious Interstate Liners,
M.V. “MANOORA” T.S.S. "CANBERRA”
M.V.“KANIMBLA” S.S. "ORMISTON ’
MUSIC—SPORT—DANCING.
“Ormiston” Traverses the Hinchinbrook Channel.
“Katoomba” leaves Melbourne June 24 for Cairns and
Port Moresby (Papua).
SAILINGS FROM MELBOURNE EVERY
SATURDAY.
For Time Table and Pamphlets, etc., apply:—
ADELAIDE S. N. CO., LTD., 505 Collins Street.
McILWRAITH, McEACHARN, LTD., 96 William Street.
A.U.S.N. CO., LTD., 300 and 467 Collins Street.
HOWARD SMITH, LTD., 35 Market Street.
&
I
m
1
FROM THE STORY B
CART. FRANK HURLE
★
with
CINESOUND’S ALL STAR CAST
★
FRANK LEIGHTON
SHIRLEY ANN RICHARDS
FRANK HARVEY
HARVEY ADAMS
JOE VALLI
CAMPBELL COPELIN
AILEEN BRITTON
LETTY CRAYDON
GEORGE LLOYD
RONALD WHELAN
Directed Bi| KEN G*HALL
Made in
AU STR ALIA
for the
WORLDS
mm
A
MM
fcIiWESbUMO
■Mk
-
0
* *
m
RflN«
m
WATCH
for it at the
Nation's greatest
Theatres!


Personal and Missing Friends.
THOMAS B. KERIN, or anyone knowing his
whereabouts, please communicate with his
mother, who is very ill.
DOWDESWELL (or BEAUMONT).—WiII
anyone who can give information as to the
present whereabouts or death of JOHN JAMES
CARL FREDERICKER DOWDESWELL (or
BEAUMONT), who was born in Australia in
1890, lived as a boy at Dunedin, and was
last heard of in Melbourne just before the
Great War, please communicate with MESSRS.
VILLENEUVE SMITH, KELLY, HAGUE &
TRAVERS, Insurance Chambers, Pirie Street,
Adelaide?
Q hopping, meeting and escorting children,
O driving cars in city, engaging domestics. —
MARGARET RUSSELL, Amaroo, Albany
Rnnd. Toorak. Vic., U 4032.
Compounded
from
high grade
medicinal
products
HUDSON'S
EUMENTHOL
ES
U
B
U
I
For Coughs,
Colds,
Influenza.
6d. & 1/6 tin
f
EMIA
DEBILITY
WEAKNESS
NERVES
Of all tlia ailments which affect
women and children, the worst so fax
as sowing the seeds of weakness and
illhealth in later life is concerned, is
Anaemia.
Anaemia is an insidious disease in which the
blood becomes impoverished and deficient in
red corpuscles. It is associated with distressing
symptoms of weakness, depression, poor appetite
and nervous debility. In such conditions
Roboleine is the ideal preparation as in addition
to wonderful body and nerve building constitu-
ents, it contains Red and White bone marrow,
the richest blood making elements known to
Medical Science. After a few doses the red
corpuscles increase at an astonishing rate, the
appetite improves and soon all nervous fears
and depression vanish, indicating a speedy return
to normal health, and the capacity to enjoy life
to the full.
ROBOLEINE
The best blood-making and
health restoring food
The Governor of the largest English hospital
said “The effect of Roboleine on anaemic
children has been magical".
i Muir & Neil Ltd., 479 Kent Street, :
| Sydney. I enclose 3d. in stamps for sample •
; of Roboleine.
: Name ; \
I Address SB ~ j
Melbourne
Chatter
On a night of tempest, rain and wind
No. 9 Darling-street was a snug shelter
for the Loreto Old Girls’ Ball. Logs and
mallee roots radiated warmth and com-
fort in the lounge, where dancers, clus-
tered in between times, and in the ball-
room the flags of Empire were echoed
with red, white and blue flowers. Joan
Coleman and Thelma Wilson were the
two debs., both brunettes, wearing white
frocks, who were presented by Mary
Wilton to the president of the associa-
tion, Mrs. V. Adami. Mrs. J. J. Daly, in
mushroom-pink satin, and Mrs. Tom
King, in black velvet and a squirrel wrap,
were among past-presidents who had
seats at the official table. Among the
dancers were Dr. and Mrs. Leo Doyle,
Mrs. Doyle in black net over taffeta,
Shirley Carroll in pink tulle with pink
and blue flowers in her hair, Blanche
Fitzgerald in hyacinth-blue, Joyce
Walker in a gold net coat over taffeta
and Cassi Fanning in black satin.
Athol Blaubaum, a bridegroom of a
few weeks’ standing, rose nobly to the
occasion of returning hospitality to the
lads who had entertained him on the
eve of his desertion from the ranks of
Melbourne’s well-known bachelors. The
party started off with sherry in the
lounge of the newly-wedded couple’s
home in Malvern, which they have fur-
nished bit by bit with period pieces.
When everybody got warmed up a move
was made to the dining-room, where the
guests ate a “corker of a dinner” in
buffet fashion from off their own wed-
ding presents, with something snappy in
butlers distributing piping-hot soup and
whisking about with trays of mushroom
and chicken. Mrs. Blaubaum, wearing a
cornflower-blue cocktail gown, appeared
now and again to arbitrate in arguments
on the political situation, socialism,
pacifism, impressionism, etc. Keeble
Beauchamp, Rex Ebbott, lan Webster
and Harry Blaubaum were among the
guests whose minds jumped from ism
to ism with the speed of mountain goats.
Among people at Moya Dyring’s show
when Justice Evatt fulfilled a postponed
engagement with an address on modern
art were beauteous red-headed Yvonne
Atkinson and plentifully red-bearded
Alan Reeve, who had wound round his
neck a Jacob’s-coat scarf of many colors.
Justice Evatt illustrated his talk with
copies of several pictures by Gauguin,
Matisse, Picasso, Van Gogh, etc., and
bewailed the fact that our Galleries keep
their exhibits of modern art away in
locked drawers. He talked of progress,
of the days when Shelley and Keats were
not nice to know or think about and of
30 years ago when every undergraduate
had in his study a copy of Hope (or is
it Faith? the Judge couldn’t remember)
playing a harp on top of the world.
Judge Evatt believes that the day will
come when Melbourne’s young Sam
Atyeo, now doing well abroad, will be
hailed as a best-seller in paint.
All this week the Lower Town Hall
is filled with practical examples of
women’s artistry, economy and ingenu-
ity. The C.W.A. exhibition is always
worth seeing, and the standard grows
higher every year. “Younger Sets” are
newcomers, the example being set by the
girls of Officer, who contributed a trous-
seau the garments of which will be a
useful start for several trousseaux in the
district. From Lilydale there came a
June garden in miniature, flowers, shrubs
and grass, complete with real roots in
rich country soil. There is a thatched-
roofed summerhouse, and chairs and
tables made from matchwood and wild
nuts. Everything except a wooden dog,
creation of one of the husbands, and a
teaset, which was borrowed, was the
hand- or garden-work of Lilydale women.
From Camperdown comes a lesson in
economy which looks gay instead of
pinched —colored wools hook-worked
into cushions, footstools and upholstery
for the furnishings of a snug winter den.
In Kilmore there is someone who can
paint really interesting make-up for dolls
—the “people” in that district’s Christ-
mas party were of rag, but attractive
notwithstanding, and plates and cups of
papier mache were just the thing for
plasticine fruit and cakes. Swift’s Creek
sends a girl’s rose-pink bedroom, her
quilt done in candlewick, but with wool
instead of the old-world cotton. War-
racknabeal contributes an ingenuous
kitchen all made from scrap —saucepans
from treacle-tins, ovens and built-in sink
from kerosene-tins, soap-savers, nutmeg
graters, etc., from odd bits of metal. The
back of the chair was once a cricket bat,
and the wheeltray with its green and
cream teacloths is made from odd bits
of packing-cases. Just to remind us that
the depth of winter is not interminable,
Ballarat sends a sunroom, its hessian
hammock gay with colored pipings, some
knitted woolly cushions and a hook-work
rug of dyed rope.
In the Broothorn portrait is Margaret
Black, the plucky young lyric soprano
who held her first concert at the
Assembly Hall on Monday (7th) just
after Lotte Lehmann and in the middle
of the Moiseiwitsch season. Miss Black,
who is the only child of the Robert J.
Blacks, of Balwyn, was born at Caster-
ton and educated at Firbank, and her
favorite interests outside music are
among her own dogs and horses. She is
also fond of swimming, tennis and driv-
ing a car. Her experience as a motorist
is wide, for on one holiday trip she
drove her own car as far afield as Rock-
hampton in Queensland.
About 900 dancers assembled at the
Palais for the Rotary Ball in aid of the
D.N.S. and Rotary charities. The presi-
dent and Mrs. J. D. Johnson were there,
also the Howard Dawsons, the George
Grants, Amy Bolton, in rose-pink taffeta,
and Hubert Cargeeg, who recently re-
turned from a goodwill mission to the
Orient. Notable absentees were the
Angus Mitchells, who sailed abroad
primarily for the Rotary Conference in
Nice, and the Hugh Patons, who are in
Scotland. W. E. Wainwright was in
extra-fine form even before he won a
pipe -in the lucky dip. It was the family’s
night out, for Mrs. Wainwright picked
up a camera in the same game of chance.
The Rev. and Mrs. Bright-Parker were
enthusiastically welcomed by the large
number of Geelong visitors who motored
up for the dance. This popular pair look
upon the Rotary Ball and the St. Kilda
Mayoral Ball, plus a few Trinity College
“dos,” as the functions of the year at
which they must be present. Other
“spokes” in the wheel of Rotary were
the Les Lucas couple, Dr. and Mrs. Leon-
ard Mitchell, the Walter Roses, Mrs.
Rose in raisin-colored velvet, and the
Spencer Nalls (of Geelong), Mrs. Nall
wearing a fur wrap with her floral gown,
the Vinton Smiths were there not as
“spokes” but as guests of some friends.
M. M. Phillips was noticed dissecting
with his bridge-trained brain the tricks
of the conjuror. Mrs. Alec Watson wore
buttercup chiffon with narrow shoulder
straps and tattered-edged roses upon the
corsage. Her sister Billy Herman was
in black velvet. Mrs. G. J. Coles, who
supervised the decorations, wore
diamonds in her hair and a dozen skunk
furs lying shoulder-to-shoulder in an
ankle-length cape. Sequins enlivened
Mrs. Rippon Sargood’s black frock,
Betty Erswell wore parchment satin.
Sylvia Nowack, in grey net strewn with
white daisies, and Mrs. Noble Penne ’
in a headdress of gold leaves and biacK
tulle, traded bon-bons and balloons
silver-coin donations.
Whether the reason is that pianists
haven’t the same appeal as singers, or
whether it’s just that people have spent
all their money during Lotte Len-
mann’s season and need to wait for nex
payday before they can go gay with a
second feast of music, the fact remains
that Moiseiwitch’s first concert was v not
as crowded as it should have been. Bu
the audience was warmly enthusiastic,
and gave tangible appreciation witn
hands and feet. But after all the flowers
that went up to Lehmann the region ot
the piano looked cold and bare. Seen in
the first-night Town Hall house were
Mrs. Triston Buesst, wrapped in a cloak
of royal-blue velvet; Mrs. Lindsay Big-
gins, in parchment velvet; and Mrs.
Edward Dyason, in a military garment
with high stiff collar. The Bob Guthries
were there, Mrs. Guthrie in a long fur
coat. Mrs. Phil Finkelstein wore a green
velvet gown, and daughter Peggy’s apple-
green taffeta frock had shoulder protec-
tion from a white fox cape. Kathleen
Gepp was also in green, her frock of
dull satin being worn with a summer
ermine wrap. June Joshua, just returned
from England, had her hair in elaborate
curls. Bettine Fisken’s hair was also
noticeable, for all its interest of puffs
and fluffs was piled high in front. Her
frock too was remarkable for its large
checks in patriotic red, white and blue.
Mrs. C. L. Nicholas, whose portrait is
by Jack Cato, is one of the ticket secre-
taries of the Society for Prevention of
Cruelty to Children’s Ball to be held at
Earl’s Court next Friday (June 11). This
is the S.P.C.C.’s first big social function,
and the committee has worked with such
interest and co-operation that the party
is certain to be a great success.
Such a magnet of attraction is the
name of Lehmann that the crowd which
staggered up the stairs at the Athenaeum
(the lift being quite unsuitable for the
transportation of vast numbers) for the
opening of the exhibition of pictures and
sculpture by Polly Hurry, John Farmer
and John Elischer was possibly without
parallel in the history of our art shows.
Madame arrived promptly to the minute
and almost lost her customary sang-froid
in her long, long journey to the platform,
with Elischer coaxing a pathway for her
through the surging masses. Her speech
was short, just a thought about Vienna
and the artists of all nations who gather
there “like birds who sing in different
languages, but have something in com-
mon, for we can fly away together to the
realms of art.” Recognised in the sea
of faces were the three sisters who look
so alike, Mrs. J. G. Purves, Mrs. D. S.
Rolls and Miss Florrie Green. Mrs. K.
Reddan was there with her attractive
daughter Collette, who wore a saucer
hat of beige felt with her brick-dust
frock. Among others were Professor and
Mrs. Agar, Dr. Wallie Williams, Dr.
Georgina Sweet, Mrs. Evelyn Snodgrass,
Dr. and Mrs. Law, Mrs. Gershon
Bennett, Mrs. Sheila Marsden (who
afterwards gave a cocktail party in honor
of the three artists) and Mrs. Harry
Rosenthal (in beautiful silver foxes and
the sort of difficult little hat made from a
handful of feathers, with a postman’s
brim, that she carries off so well).
Present also were a number of artists,
large and small, of all aesthetic creeds
and denominations.
Westralia’s Claude de Bernales enter-
tained a party in London on Coronation
day. His guests were called for at 4.45
a.m. and taken to. a building opposite
Marshall Snellgrove’s, from the roof of
which they were able to look right down
Regent-street. At 6 a.m. they saw the
people who had slept on the kerb all
night being wakened into standing posi-
tions, and at 6.30 they went into the
building to assuage nippy morning-air
appetites with hot rolls, ham and eggs
and coffee, after which they spent an
hour playing roulette. In between cock-
tails at 11.30 and a champagne luncheon
served later, these fortunate guests
watched the excitement in the street
below and admired the methodical
manner in which the police, and ambu-
lance men did their jobs. They had a
fine view of the Canadian and Austra-
lian contingents, and saw some deft
fielding done by the men for apples and
chocolates thrown to them by the crowd.
Herbert Rose, an exhibition of whose
pictures is being held at the Sedon Gal-
leries, died at the age of 46 in Delhi a
few months ago, during the same week
that saw the passing on of another well-
known Australian artist, Charles Bryant.
Rose sent his pictures and heavy luggage
from England, and was travelling
towards Australia in slow stages, mostly
overland by train, car or ’plane. He
was an inveterate wanderer and a good
linguist, and had made three trips to
Spain, where he was philosophical about
the discomforts of the far-from-clean
little fondas frequented by artists and
less wealthy travellers. He spent some
months under the hot sun of Morocco,
and went through France and Italy and
down through the Balkans. Wallace
Rose, who accompanied his artist brother
on some of his travels, was present at the
opening of the exhibition. He, Maisie
Yelland and Mrs. Ethel Barnes exchanged
greetings about the day they ran into
one another by chance over luncheon at
Harrod’s in London. Their conversa-
tion, plus the glowing blues of the Medi-
terranean in several canvases, reminded
Dora Wilson of a similar occasion when
she and Mrs. Jimmy Dyer found them-
selves face to surprised face over cups
of coffee at a little inn in Corsica.
Next week the Arthur Gasquoines with
their two daughters and three sons, plus
their large amount of baggage take the
train to Sydney, where they will board
the Monowai for Auckland and proceed
by a four days’ motor trip to Wellington,
where they will catch the Tamaroa, bound
for England via Panama. By the time
the ship reaches the canal zone Margaret,
Sheila and Ray hope to have obtained
parental consent to a deviation by them-
selves off to New York for a few weeks.
This year Sheila commenced to study
massage at Melbourne University. Ray
inherits his mother’s taste for music, is
a versatile instrumental performer, and
has ideas about the positions he could
fill in dance bands.


S gfs?’
~~ .-j Pt««
A—"*” \o^
* *»&£ -&&t\
ST* r«t'
5*55^-^
e \se^ c of P ubl oAc tVve\
tn° uS Tver^ 4- i - a ' >cVs i- n one ol
rS&\^& sttect P "
SS ** 8 or .
and its beauty spots
for only £5/5/-,
including accommo-
dation and local
tours, but plus fares
from your town to
Adelaide.
line it p \fi
*» ?£*'***& vS**^;
"O” £,*’SocW;
EmP* 1 ® _<r
South
Wales
Bur
■eanx
tives at
torian and
nnvprnmpnf
South Aus-
representa-
the Vic-
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
“Kaloa”: At least some New Guinea
residents have had a long-standing griev-
ance cured by the earthquake. Long
ago the Germans built a fine macadam
road round Blanche Bay from Rabaul to
Kokopo, the old capital. As a scenic
highway, it rivalled Rio’s. The Austra-
lian Administration has been too busy
or something to worry about mundane
things like roads, so that one Kokopo
resident was recently moved to write an
In Memoriam poem in the Rabaul
“Times”:
This road was once our pride and joy,
But now it’s! ! ! Hush, O boy, O boy!
And now, a decent-sized goorier having
done more than 17 years of human pro-
test and supplication, the Rabaul bureau-
crats will have to do up the Kokopo
road.
“Kaloa”: Died at Rabaul, before the
’quake and the eruptions, Rudolph Wolff,
the oldest white secular inhabitant.
“Lupus,” as he was known in the German
time, came out for the old New Guinea
Compagnie in 1892 and acquired a plan-
tation, a wife and a son. He came to the
station house one day in 1902 to find his
family murdered and shockingly muti-
lated. He himself carried spear wounds
till the day of his death. When war
broke out, his properties were reckoned
worth £40,000. He was expropriated in
1920, like the rest of the Germans, but,
since compensation was payable under
the treaty by Germany and the mark had
gone completely to the bad, the current
value of his life’s work in Australian
money was about threepence. He never
collected, preferring to remain behind
under Mandate rule to braving the con-
ditions of the new Germany, which had
become a strange land to him and many
of his fellow-colonists. He leaves a son,
who is carrying on.
* * * *
“Dungeness”: Strong feeling against
the Government is cherished at Long-
reach. The Shire Council impounded
566 goats on a gentleman’s agreement
that any balance, would be taken over
for the Palm Island abo. mission. Serious
diplomatic difficulties had to be settled
with the juvenile sporting set, still indig-
nant on account of the seizure of Stinker,
district speed champion, in the last round-
up. Eventually 343 assorted goats were
turned over to the police. To the indig-
nation of every right-thinking Longreach
citizen, the Government went back on
the deal, basely alleging that the cost of
transport over its bankrupt railways
would be even higher than the odor of
the. consignment. The disappointed
council sold 223 at 3d. per head locally,
and is charging the balance to wastage,
ullage, evaporation and pillage.
* * *
“Nagheer”: Yes, we’re still resource-
ful in the back country, and the old
British tradition of the sea is not yet bred
out of us all. A while back, heavy rains
brought floodwaters to Meeandana sta-
tion in the Tara (s.-w. Q.) country. The
two Derrick brothers got their stock on
to high ground safely, but on returning
found that the homestead was sur-
rounded by deep water. Food had to be
got, so they launched a galvanised-iron
horse-trough and, with a cricket bat and
a shovel as oars, made, a successful land-
fall at the garden gate.
* * * *
“Zedo”: The contrast between Aus-
tralian and foreign methods of dealing
with shell-poachers has once more been
illustrated. A few months ago the Dutch
began to seize luggers which invaded
their waters. Now the New Caledonian
authorities announce that since last July
they have seized four sampans. Mean-
while, Australia’s launch and ’plane
patrols are busy taking the names of
lugger captains and wagging fingers at
them.
* * * *
“Dungeness”: Dr. R. J. Coto, of
Wyndham (n.-w. A.), carries on the im-
perturbable tradition of the Flying
Doctor service. When his colleague., Dr.
Fenton, of Darwin, crashed in a Gipsy
Moth, Dr. Coto acquired the remains,
from it reconstructed a low-wing
“Spare one f'r y’r ’Arvest Festival? W’y, that’s me crop!”
monoplane, fitted a new engine, and is
off in it for a trip to Sydney, by way of
Perth. As a sample of the local fauna,
he proposed taking along a baby croco-
dile. An abo. hunter went out to col-
lect one by the simple process of diving
in after it, but unfortunately a grown-
up croc, was in the vicinity. Subsequent
repairs to the would-be cradle-snatcher
made the doctor’s last days in Wyndham,
before, setting out, full of work.
* * * *
“Notaden”: From March to May it
was “nut-year” on the Bunya Moun-
tains (Q.). Next year and 1939 will see
only small crops, but in 1940 the vast old
trees will again be laden with the heavy
cones packed with nuts two inches long.
Boiled or roasted, their delicate flavor
makes one realise why, in old days before
the white man came, the two tribes which
divided the mountain territory were popu-
lar from the Clarence to the Burnett, and
from the Brisbane to the Maranoa. In
nut-years, they would send out invitations
to share the crop.
* * * *
“Peter Prospect”: Native, intelligence?
My neighbor on the Watut River (New
Guinea) sent three “boys” to the ’drome
—three days’ walk—to bring down a coil
of fencing-wire. He gave them a file
and told them to make, three packs of it.
They spent two days preparing the coil
for transport. On the eighth day they
arrived home in triumph. They had no
trouble carrying the coil. They had cut
it into lengths of a few inches each and
packed it in rice-bags.
"Australia Jane's" Budget
Shirley Cay, of Toowoomba, will be-
come Mrs. Charles Lethbridge on the
last day of June. Shirley has been on
the teaching staff of the C. of E. Prep.
School, and her old friend and co-
teacher, Constance Mac Diarmid, joined
forces with Ruth Allt, another pal of
the pigtail and schoolbook era, to give
a sherry party for the bride-elect. Charles
Lethbridge has a property near Tara.
The Midson girls are splendid sup-
porters of kindergarten work in Bris-
bane, and a tennis tournament on their
courts has raked in quite a decent sum
for the Lady Goodwin Kindergarten at
Spring Hill. On the final day, there
were music and competitions. Mrs. .1.
Anning, president of the kindergarten
committee, received the guests.
The Lieut.-Governor and his wife
went down to Beaudesert for the Hos-
pital Ball. Mrs. de Burgh Persse was
official hostess, and all the squattocracy
of Beaudesert came along.
The R. G. Leggos celebrated their
silver wedding with an impromptu
supper party at the Belle Vue. Bessell-
Brown, of Sydney, who was groomsman
at the wedding a quarter of a century
ago, was a guest.
The 9th-49th Battalion Officers’ Mess
gave a bright dance in the Drill Hall to
raise funds for the Regimental Institute
—first of a series of monthly dances.
Major O. A. Kessels, with Lieut. S. H.
Beck and Captain J. W. Adams to help
him, received the guests, who included
Commander arid Mrs. E. C. Rhodes and
Brigadier and Mrs. J. L. Witham.
Miss Nora Dumolo, headmistress of
N.E.G.S., and Mrs. John Forster, wife
of Archdeacon Forster, of Armidale, en-
tertained parents and past pupils at
Lennon’s Hotel. Archbishop and Mrs.
Wand were there.
Masses of roses and gladioli in lounge-
and supper-room and a bower of roses
in the vestibule made the Belle Vue a
thing of beauty for the dance given by
five of Brisbane’s prettiest girls—Edna
Buchanan, Nest Francespeare, Lenore
Fihelly, Edna Keane and Betty Real.
Each of the young hostesses carried a
floral fan as a distinguishing badge, and
their parents helped in entertaining the
250 guests.
Brisbane, is losing one of its most
talented amateur actresses, Betty Pike,
who is going to Sydney. Betty is a mem-
ber of the Brisbane Amateur Theatres
Society, and ever since she was a small
girl has studied elocution with Jean
Trundle, who, in private life, is Mrs.
Vic Hargreaves. After the society’s
eleventh show Vic Hargreaves handed
over the travelling beauty outfit that
members had chosen as a farewell gift.
Beth Iliff, who has been hon. sec. of
the All Hallows’ Old Girls’ Association
for some years and who held down a job
in the Income Tax Department, has mar-
ried Dr. Jim Ryan.
Molly Ryland, daughter of the late G.
Ryland, M.L.A., is holidaying in U.S.A.,
and writes describing a service in the
Angelus Temple, conducted by Aimee
McPherson. The Los Angeles Police
Band was the orchestra, and ther'e was
a choir of 45 women and 20 men, the
ladies in white satin with red crosses on
their chests. Aimee, also in white satin,
had a cross of rhinestones; and three
lasses, one in red, one in yellow and one
in green, preceded the choir. A motor-
car and a traffic signal were on the stage,
and the text was “Traffic Lights.” Before
the collection Aimee gently suggested
that five- or ten-dollar bills would be
acceptable.
Among the numerous presents received
by Margaret Dash and Justin McCarthy
were a car from his parents, Shelley china
from Mrs. Forgan Smith and lovely
crystal from dozens of friends.
Dr. and Mrs. H. B. Ellerton are leav-
ing Goodna —he having retired—and
there have been many farewell parties.
Associates of the Gailes Golf Club gave
Mrs. Ellerton a lovely jade brooch set
in white gold.
Dr. Dorothy Hill, a Brisbane girl who
for the past seven years has been doing
research work in England, is expected in
Queensland in August to do some fossil
research for the Queensland Govern-
ment.
The Balmoral Players had a full house
for the comic operetta “Pocahontas” at
the Princess. Stage settings and costum-
ing were excellent, and Nan Shaw, pos-
sessor of a delightful voice, surprised the
critics with her good acting. Violette
Rane was Queen Anne, F. T. Cross
played John Rolfe and H. Canly John
Smith. Eric Johnston was musical direc-
tor and producer, and George Brann
stage-managed.
Trustees of the Queensland National
Art Gallery have bought a colored draw-
ing of Sydney Harbor by Sydney Ure
Smith, now included in the exhibition
of the Society of Artists. If the Art
Advisory Committee approves, Vida
Lahey’s “Hibiscus and Gerberas,” in the
same show, will also be bought for the
Gallery.


THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Thursday
Is the most popular 68-page woman’s
paper published in the Common-
wealth. It features everything a
woman ought to know. Once you
read it you will never be without it.
Its up-to-date weekly pattern is
free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
252 George Street, Sydney.
p.
' : ••
m
m
■fete 3 ?
m
mm
mmwm
...... vn trmm ■ irr aim i irr Tft V/flllD VCADC
Clogged
Colon
The left Illustration shows your colon clogged with
fermenting food waste. Because your bowels act
regularly is not proof that all the waste is being evacu-
ated Instead, it encrusts on the colon walls and
poisons your whole system. You suffer from muscular
pains, rheumatism, neuritis. You are troubled with
bloating, flatulence, headaches, indigestion, dizziness,
constipation. Bladder complaint makes your days miser-
able and spoils your rest at night. You feel tired, ex-
hausted. depressed, peevish. Laxatives are useless-they only purge
the lower end of the bowel. They do not clean away the acid-formmg
food wastes from the colon walls. 'Coloseptic,' however,
clears the entire colon of waste matter as shown in the
right-hand illustration. It neutralises all acid conditions.
It restores the body's alkaline reserve. 'Coloseptic also
activates the kidneys, skin pores and the lungs other
vital organs which your body uses to get rid of surplus
poisons. Learn what it is like to be without pain or
ache. Enjoy the evening of your years as they should
be spent—in peace, comfort and contentment. Clear
your clogged colon with 'Coloseptic' NOW.
TEST/MON I A L Auckland ,
Sept. 8 , 1936.
"1 •„h to state it is wonderful how much good ‘Coloseptic ’ has done me. I
wL:±S.™n°' ™ sra „ ”™“ sirs
nJSsO°am". b,u„ ./.«» I did M. Um. 1... Mh. I m«..
thank you for your truly wonderful health restorer.
__ -i +tio for a free liberal sample of
FREE—nSEPTIc” P to-day, and you will receive a book
al^lo^t^"he intimate and highly important subject of
IITThEMISTS- INDIVIDUAL SIZE, 2/9 ■ ECONOMY SIZE S/6
tf JoMaille localltJ write to Coloscvtio (Aust.) Ltd., 26 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Unclogged
Colon .
MEW
HEALTH
FOR MEN &
WOMEN PAST
50
LATEST SCIENTIFIC TREATMENT
RESTORES VISOR AND VITALITY—
Quick
Nature never meant that old age
should be a time of pain and suffer-
ing. Nature intended the evening of
life to be a period of calm repose and health.
Unfortunately, now-a-days most everyone past
50 suffers from some kind of ache or pain, such
as rheumatism, sciatica, stomach distress, high
blood pressure, kidney acidity, bladder weak-
ness, bronchitis, exhaustion, lack of vitality,
stiffness and trembling.
Medical scientists now say that these ailmeate
and over 300 other diseases are due to self-
poisoning (Autoxima), arising from a clogged
colon.
HOW SELF POISONING CAUSES DISEASE
Civilised life guards us against many dangers
and diseases, but exposes us to hidden ones,
such as self-poisoning. Devitalised, demineral-
ised foods and lack of exercise give insufficient
work to the walls of the colon (large intestine),
thereby losing their power to completely empty
the colon of all the waste-matter left over from
digestion. This fermenting acid-waste encrusts
in the folds of the colon walls and the essential
alkalising elements, which maintain the normal
alkaline reserve of the body, are not extract
from your food. Worse still, these acids from
the fermenting refuse are absorbed into the
bloodstream and carried throughout the
to attack and weaken the vital organs
and functions, causing premature
old age, sickness, weakness
loss of vitality.
FOR BETTER INTERNAL CLEANNESS
m
ic
AIDS NUTRITION
CHECKS SELF-POISONING
BUILDS HEALTH
combats ACIDITY
iIH!
w
A*
X
\
% v>° o>
' c <C‘>
V*
* V
&sf\.> , k#’ - % i N c°
t> > . C <v^^W e . v°
<>'
5 . v°
1 °W
e ’
P V
CP
THE LITTLE SISTERS.
WESTRALIA.
For its dance the Cottesloe Golf Club
lit roaring log fires in lounges and the
“19th hole.” Colored bunting enclosed
the verandahs and excluded wintry
winds. Mrs. Leslie Tansing, in tailored
black satin, over which she slipped a
riotously be-floralled satin jacket, made
one of her last appearances before de-
parting for Melbourne. A gold thread
meandered in and out of Mrs. Graham
Brown’s flame crepe, and the back of
Mrs. Jock Cameron’s black ninon cas-
caded in tiny frills. Margot Law clus-
tered gold headings on her olive-green
chiffon, and Lola Stuart-Smith displayed
her usual good taste in her self-striped
satin of hydrangea-blue, which color she
has particularly favored since her return
from England.
The stage of His Majesty’s was
arranged in drawing-room style for the
Essie Ackland concerts, with huge bowls
of giant-stemmed poinsettias splashing
color in the background. Both concerts
attracted enthusiastic audiences. The
Max Rutters, Dr. and Mrs. D. D. Paton,
the Lance Barretts and Mrs. Cecil
Mason were at both concerts.
Multicolored lights twinkled in trees
surrounding the clubhouse and bright-
ened verandahs when the Mt. Yokine
Golf Club opened its dancing season.
Masses of autumn-tinted marigolds and
vivid poinsettias made a profusion of
color in the lounges. Mrs. Oscar Negus,
of golfing fame, dashed floral patterns on
her black satin, Mrs. W. Whitely had
silver spots on her duck-egg-green crepe,
and chenille designs were picked out on
Mrs. Tom Outridge’s black georgettes.
Deep mauves predominated in Mrs.
G. H. Bacon’s sun-ray pleated chiffons
and Betty Merryweather was girt in filmy
green georgettes.
A picture hat of palest-pink English
felt, enwreathed with tiny flowers, topped
Thelma Lloyd’s pink laces, engird'ed
with cornflower-blue taffeta, when she
became Mrs. Gerald Brain at St. Pat-
rick’s, West Perth. The reception at the
W. Lloyds’ home in Adelaide-terrace
afterwards was solely a family affair.
The newly-weds intend visiting Tasmania
to visit the ’groom’s parents, the W. A.
Brains, of Sandy Bay, Hobart.
Rita and Mollie McGibbon have been
doing the festive round before packing
their trunks for Ceylon. Joyce Burridge
rose to the occasion with tea at the
Adelphi. Mrs. Gordon Hislop put on a
Sunday buffet supper at her lovely
Crawley home, and Mrs. Arthur Hard-
wicke, Russian in tiny astrakhan hat and
soldierly-braided black suit, tilted the
teapot at the Palace. At Gladys Hadley’s
and Jean Lang’s cocktail hour Rita and
Mollie shared honors with Mrs. Francis
Henstock, better remembered as Dorothy
Summerhayes, who has also been run-
ning the gamut of parties since her
arrival from Ceylon. In her honor Peggy
Watson-Williams, clad in black and fox
furs, provided luncheon at the Frascati
Cafe, home of Italian cooking, and
Mollie Aitkins set out bridge tables at
her South Perth home. Before depart-
ing for her tropical home, Mrs. Hen-
stock poured tea at the Adelphi for a
large gathering round tables decked with
green cloths and marigolds.
Bunbury has been doing honor to Peggy
Rose, who in future will be domiciled
at the Royal Prince Alfred Hospital,
Sydney. Her mother, Mrs. Percy Rose,
midst a profusion of pink roses and
mauve iris, dispensed tea to some 60
guests at her home, Moorlands; Mrs.
John Flynn’s and Ermine Rose’s compli-
ment was afternoon-tea at the Rose
Hotel.
Mrs. Vernon Dempster sheathed her-
self in black ring velvet when she wel-
corned the many young things or
Northam to dance farewell to daughter
Margaret, who has chosen a career of
tending the sick at the Children s Hos-
pital. White pebble crepe, fashioned on
classic lines, garbed the honored one.
The Wesley Inkpens dropped a
pleasant bombshell on their silver wed-
ding festivities, when they announced the
eng * gement of daughter Helen to Ber-
nard Wardj of Subiaco. Another be-
trodied lass, soon to wed, is Helena
Eagleton. She will keep her tryst in
England, with Hudson Shaw, a Maori-
lander.
Keen huntsmen and huntswomen fore-
.he ton.ee. of seas™,
whh thg M F H ' A> E . Joyner, in
t he | ead phyl Malloch conformed pre-
cisely with dress regulations. Mrs.
Dudley Law was less orthodox in cream
jodhpurs and tan suede i» cket - v Hope
made aU h S e h r ‘ d dbut in the hunt-
.flg eld Fea was served to crowds of
- v j s jt ors . Mary Burt was an onlooker,
and t j ed a r ust-hued angora scarf round
her rough tweed suit and popped a
matching rust velvet bow in her well-
coifed .ham Mary Mmer M*»d *£
j umper> and Mrs. Athole
Ferousson _ Stewa rt wrapped herself into
warm tweeds.
.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA,
Ade]aide Hunt Club > s opening meet
struck a fine afternoon and attracted a
large crowd. Afterwards there was tea
at the Kennels, Plympton, dispensed by
the F. C. Bickford, with Mrs.
Reginald Bickford as hostess.
At the Metropolitan Baby Health
Centre the president of the Mothers and
Babies’ Health Association gave an
afternoon-tea to welcome Dr. Elma Sand-
ford Morgan, the association’s recently-
appointed medical director. The guests
were received in the boardroom by the
president, Mrs. Napier Birks.
The C. V. T. Wells couple gave a dance
at their home, St. Margaret’s, North
Adelaide, for daughter Mary and 18-year-
old midshipman son David, who left in
the Mooltan to join his ship, which is
with the Mediterranean Fleet. Mrs.
Wells, with her eldest son and daughter,
received at the entrance to the ballroom.
Over 300 guests were present at the
10th Battalion dance held in the main
hall at the parade-ground. The room
was decorated with the battalion colors
and arranged in cabaret style, and suppei
was served in the gun-park, the gun car-
riages draped with flags. The president
of the mess committee, Major C. E.
Hunkin, and Mrs. Hunkin received the
guests.
Pulteney Old Scholars made merry at
the Palais Royal. Mrs. Walter Dollman
organised the ball with the assistance of
Ouida Wright and Claire Schulze. The
700 guests were received by the president
of the association, H. H. Allen, and Mrs.
Allen, with the headmaster of the school,
W. P. Nicholls. Mrs. Dollman was pre-
sented with a gift in recognition of her
work for the association scholarship
fund.
TASMANIA.
Lady Clark went to Launceston for
the C.W.A. State conference, for which
about 80 delegates rolled up. After a
stormy beginning the C.W.A. in Tassie
seems to have become peacefully estab-
lished. Mrs. W. C. T. Peart was elected
State president. Queen Mary sent a
message, and Lady Gowrie wrote to say
she would accept the position °t
patroness-in-chief of the Tasmanian
division.
Cadbury-Fry-Pascal Library supporters
ran a plain and fancy ball to help the
institution, and the Claremont Memorial
Hall was packed with a gay crew of
lively ghosts from times past, as well as
representatives of to-day. The N. P-
Booths, T. Pooles, Miss Prescott and Miss
Hawkins made up the official party.
Prize-winners in the parade were handed
their trophies by Mrs. Booth.
The Governor unveiled a portrait of
the King, sent from England to grace
the walls of the Royal Golf Club house
at Rosny. President J. I. Low enter-
tained everybody at afternoon-tea.
The Tas. Division of the Institution
of Engineers gave an evening party at the
Continental. Supper was served upstairs,
pink chrysanthemums making the chief
decoration. President Rowntree and his
better-half received guests, the lady in
black satin, cut plainly and very long,
with a cluster of pink roses on the
shoulder.
James Pratt produced “Precious Bane’
for the Hobart Rep. Soc. at the Theatre
Royal with fair success, considering the
difficulties of dialect and tense situa-
tions. Staging and lighting were very
well done. Linus Donelly did fine work
in the character of Sarn, and Joy
Graham gave a good account of the
heroine, Prue-


Legal Notice.
Re JAMES JOSEPH CAVANAGH,
Deceased.
A Rule to Administer the Estate of JAMES
JOSEPH CAVANAGH, late of Gannawarra,
Victoria, farm laborer, deceased, intestate, who
died on the 22nd day of August, 1933, has been
granted to me, and creditors, next-of-kin and
others having claims against the estate, and in
particular the following persons, namely, PAT-
RICK CAVANAGH, father of the deceased,
and JOHN CAVANAGH, PATRICK CAVA-
NAGH and CATHERINE CAVANAGH (also
known as CATHERINE McCAWLEY),
brothers and sister of the deceased, or the
children of any of such persons who died
before the 22nd August, 1933, or the personal
representative of any of such persons who died
after such date, are required to send in par-
ticulars of their claims to THE CURATOR
OF THE ESTATES OF DECEASED PER-
SONS, 283 Queen-street, Melbourne, Victoria,
within three months from the date of this
advertisement, or they will be excluded from
the distribution of the estate which the Curator
intends to make.
M. M. PHILLIPS,
Curator of the Estates of Deceased Persons,
Melbourne, Victoria.
AUTUMN FAIR
COMMENCES AUG. 29.
Comprising General Samples Fairs,
Textiles, Sports Goods, Engineering
and Great Building Fairs.
250,000
TRADE BUYERS
from all over the world secure their re-
quirements twice yearly from 9000 inter-
national exhibitors.
It will pay you to investigate this huge
market fully.
LEIPZIG
International
Industries
FAIR
GERMANY.
Information (including Travel Marks and Aski Trading
Marks) available of LARS G. BRUNDAHL, Commis-
sioner in Australia for the Leipzig International Indus-
tries Fair, Challis House, Martin Place, G.P.O. Box
3127 P, Sydney; O. N. KEPPEL, Temple Court, 422
Collins Street, G.P.O. Box 20245, Melbourne;
H. C. ITTERSHAGEN, Sheuton Park, W, Australia.
The Long White Colud
No Interest —or No Vision?
According to H. G. Guinness, Fox
Movietone’s Sydney editor, Maoriland
possesses “absolutely no topical subjects
of world interest for sound-film news-
reels at the present moment.” He told
Wellington that “Paris loves soldiers and
funerals, London prefers soldiers and the
King, while Italy and Germany must
have pictures of Mussolini and Hitler
respectively.”
W. R. Crocker, of Geneva’s Inter-
national Labor Organisation, says Maori-
land is classed with France and Sweden
as one of the three world countries at-
tempting important “social reorganisa-
tion in a very bold and experimental
way.” This “reorganisation” applies to
human methods of living, and where
there are men and women there are sub-
jects for news-reel cameras.
Most of the overseas “nationalism”
news-reels mentioned by Mr. Guinness
are made significant to Maorilanders and
Australians only by the vivid explana-
tions of practised commentators, with-
out whose lively screen voices all the
processions in the world would be prac-
tically pointless.
Workers in M.L. and Australia enjoy
better living conditions and more varied
leisure hours than people in similar jobs
in most other parts of the world. Pic-
tures to show this brand of South Pacific
nationalism need not be uninteresting
“stills” of talking and obscure politicians.
Reasons for Maoriland’s monster Public
Works Department ventures and for
Australia’s huge basic-wage inquiry
would be as interesting to peace-loving
citizens in more troubled countries as
Europe’s martial scenes are to Austra-
lians and Maorilanders.
But there would have to be mofe en-
terprise by cameramen, and commen-
taries would need to be simple, pithy and
accurate.
“Ticker”: Contrary to the old belief
that machines displace labor, Maoriland’s
Public Works Department is now em-
ploying more machines and more men
than at any other stage in its history.
Minister Semple declares that mechanised
methods speed up the work and save huge
sums to the taxpayer. His department’s
swing to modern machinery was simpli-
fied by the fact that cessation of public
works under the previous Government’s
depression policy had left the department,
as Mr. Semple says, “without any gear
except wheelbarrows and long-handled
shovels.” Work on the Nelson aero-
drome, originally to cost £170,000 over
2j years, is expected to be finished by
mechanised methods in years at only
£35,000 —an example that Australian
State Governments could well remember.
This Nelson job, incidentally, is part of
Maoriland’s progressive internal air-ex-
tension programme, on which £lOO,OOO
has already been spent in improving
aerodrome facilities. Another example
Australia could emulate.
* * * *
“Waitot”: The publicity accorded to
Canada’s Dionne quintuplets has in-
directly helped to provide for the future
of'Maoriland’s quadruplets; the Savage
Government is setting up their parents
in a £l7OO house at a peppercorn rental.
The Dunedin City Corporation, which
has furnished a rent-free site, is to be
asked to waive, rates on the property.
Moreover, when the home nears com-
pletion there is a fund for the purchase
of suitable furnishings. In an age of
shrinking birthrates, quadruplets deserve
some such recognition ; but would Maori-
land have paid these tributes if the
Dionne event had been kept from the
world?
* * * *
“Motu”: Unionists in Maoriland are
all for “constitutional” methods, but they
debate them at great length. The Workers’
Union conference which opens in Wel-
lington on June 23 has a business sheet
containing 494 “remits” —a suitable
memorial for the union’s twenty-first
annual conference. A membership in-
crease of nearly 20,000 in the last year
may be partly responsible for the growth
of business —but, in spite of the larger
field, shearing-industry workers still hold
pride of numerical place with a contri-
bution of 136 “remits.” Maoriland’s fer-
tile acres appear to breed debaters as
well as stock; the various country
branches of the Farmers’ Union are for
ever “adopting resolutions” which often-
puzzled secretaries are airily instructed
to “forward to the right quarter.”
* * * *
“Kohi”: There are still long-distance
stock-droving epics on outback Aus-
tralian plains, but in smaller Maoriland,
well served by railway and motor-truck,
they are such a rarity that a 300-mile
road journey of six weeks recently won
considerable publicity. In this instance
six drovers took a line of West Coast
cattle over Haast Pass and down to
Dunedin. Floods so delayed them that
they ran short of food when crossing the
Southern Alps; fresh supplies were
dropped from the ’plane sent to locate
them by a worried station manager. Ten
head were lost in mountain rivers, and
one of the drovers, swept away in a flood,
rejoined his mates a day later when they
had given him up as a road casualty.
* * * *
“Korero”: As chief guest at the annual
London dinner of the “Knights of the
Round Table,” Maoriland’s High Com-
missioner Jordan showed a veteran poli-
tician’s cunning in his choice of a speech
subject; he told of the chivalry of the
Maori people. After trotting out several
authentic instances of early Maori war-
riors supplying their British foes with
food and water “to make a better fight
of it,” he referred to the honor of the
Maori, and used for an illustration a
little-known incident that helped the late
Maui Pomare win his way into the Wel-
lington Parliament in 1912. Rauparaha,
paramount Maori war-chief of a century
ago, had one of Pomare’s ancestors as a
lieutenant chief. In one inter-tribal battle
this Pomare spared the life of a foeman
after taking away his mere. Latter in
due course became the property of Maui
Pomare, and, in native eyes, he inherited
with the weapon the credit due to his
goodhearted ancestor. In Pomare’s elec-
torate was an influential Maori chief, a
direct descendant of the warrior spared
by the. earlier Pomare. Wise in the ways
of his people, Maui Pomare, a fully-
qualified medical practitioner, approached
this chief, returned the mere and asked for
political support. Next day the chief
ordered his people to vote for Pomare ;
to meet a century-old but unpaid debt
of gratitude, that chief changed his poli-
tical opinions and helped to start Pomare
on a brilliant Parliamentary career.
* * * *
“Kiwit”: There is still a native, prob-
lem on this side of the Tasman. Its most
urgent aspect at the present time is the
housing situation in many poorer Maori
villages. The natives lack the means to
effect improvements. They cannot raise
house-building loans with their land as
security, because their land-interests are
invariably part of scattered, tribally-
owned blocks. Their more fortunate
brothers have proved that the Maori
can live up to European standards,
and with the health of the race depending
on solution of the housing problem, the
Savage Government will soon be faced
with the necessity for action. That may
entail the granting of individual titles to
portion of the tribally-owned land blocks.
* * * *
“Xo”: For 30 years Maoriland tax-
payers have been contributing to the
maintenance of a marine fish research
station of whose existence most of them
were unaware; it was originally wished
on them by a small grant from the 1904
conference of the Association for the Ad-
"I’m busy now, gentlemen, but I could grant you an interview at three o'clock SHARP.”
vancement of Science. Government
grants have varied from £7OO a year
down to a depression sigh. This year
the Labor Cabinet donated £3OO and
an ultimatum to the effect that this grant
would be its last. The Portobello station,
a few miles out of Dunedin, is now being
hawked round various bodies which
scientists believe should help maintain
it; the Government has offered it, com-
plete with equipment, to any organisa-
tion prepared to look after it. The
station was established to study local fish
and to import likely export species from
other parts of the world. Before the war
it attempted to acclimatise English her-
ring, lobsters and crabs, and when these
ventures failed, it became an aquarium
for local fish research. While results
have been scientifically interesting, they
have hardly justified the continuance of
Government support. The Savage Gov-
ernment has plenty other projects crying
out for money.
“Apia”: Maoriland’s perennial troubles
in Samoa have been augmented recently
by a unique stay-in strike: the Fono
(Council of District Chiefs) declined to
transact public business until its de-
mands for higher pay were granted. The
M.L. Government aggrievedly pointed
out that Samoa really contributes very
little to State revenue, and that the chiefs
had had their salaries for their 12-days-
a-year labors raised from £l5 to £36. But
the chiefs had evidently been reading up
the doings of politicians in other parts.
* * * *
“D.N.”: The Maoriland Government’s
Melbourne headquarters is being shifted
further along Collins-street towards the
business heart of the city. This is only
the third change in the 30 years since
H. J. Manson was appointed the first
Government representative in Mel-
bourne ; he was succeeded in 1930 by
Roberts M. Firth, now in Los Angeies
(U.S.A.), and the present Vic. manager,
J. A. Malcolm, moved in during 1935. A
thriving business has increased the staff
to six, with the result that the present
Collins-street offices have been outgrown.
Incidentally, Invercargill (M.L.) should
be particularly interested in this Mel-
bourne progress; both Firth and Mal-
colm served Southland terms before they
crossed to Australia.
“M.”: The pending tour of the S.
African Rugby Union footballers has en-
thusiastic Maoriland on tenterhooks,
which accounts for the hearty Welling-
ton chuckles over the tale of a Maori
liftman. Previously renowned for his
daily good humor, this native recently
operated his lift in a depressed silence,
Tenants confided in each other and
learned that his large family was down
with chicken-pox. One businessman told
Hori he wasn’t himself. “No,” said the
Maori. “No good ; worry.” In sympa-
thetic voice the tenant observed that he
had heard of Hori’s misfortune. “Heard
what?” queried the native. “Your wife
and family all with chicken-pox so badly,”
explained the passenger. “Aw, that’s
nothing,” said Hori. “Nothing?” said the
tenant. “No,” returned Hori. “I had it
when I was a kid ; they’ll get over it.
But”—anxiously catching the business-
man by a coat button—“have we the for-
wards to beat the Springboks?”


MURDOCHS
RED SPOT
WTWTFI3
W 1 ull
:
"Road-
way
Raider"
Lighting
Sets
These Cycle Generator Sets: have black
enamelled finish and powerful light. Four-
pole dynamo and built-in
emergency battery.
Usually 22/6.
Sale Price
STREAM
LINED
MODELS
Streamlined Cycle Lighting Sets with black
enamelled and chrome finish. Two bulbs in
headlamp. Dimming attachment for battery
generator. Four-way switch.
S-Jin. reflector. Complete with
emergency battery.
Sale Price
27/e
We Pay Freight.
Kindly write to Desk “R”
Pare '
AMP
Standard
Cycle
Lighting
Sets
Standard Model Generator Sets,
finish, powerful lamp. Original
types cost 25/- and are still
running after four years’ use.
Present Sale Price
All nickel
"Highway King" Models
-O
Chromium-plated Head Lamps. 3 Jin. front
and heavily silver-plated parabolic reflector.
Two side lamps. Four bulbs and patented
multiple switch for dynamo and battery.
Complete with dynamo, tail
light, flexible leads and all
bulbs.
Sale Price
47/6
MURDOCH’S LTD
• George Sts. SYDNEY
RADIO NEWS.
DON B. KNOCK'S PAGES.
112, 56 and 28 M.C. Receiver
The receiver here described won first
prize in the ultra-high-frequency receiver
section at the 1937 Amateur Radio
Exhibition in Sydney. It represents a
distinct step forward in modern super-
regenerators, and the design is recom-
mended as a standard for this class of
receiver.
The search for R.F. amplifiers for use
at five metres and below has been a long
one, and, although fair results can be
obtained under some conditions with
ordinary valves, there is no question
about the superiority of the R.F. pen-
tode “acorn.” The 954 (pentode) and
955 (triode) have been available for some
time, and recently the 956 joined
the family. The difference between the
956 and 954 is that of a 58 to a 57 or
6D6 to a 6C6. It is more correctly an
R.F. amplifier than the 954. It was
decided therefore to incorporate this
valve in a receiver with the object of
securing effective amplification over a
wide frequency range. Although a 954
could be used as detector, the 6K7 was
used in this position with the object of
reducing cost. The 6K7 proved a re-
markably efficient ultra-short-wave elec-
tron-coupled detector.
“Self-squegger” detectors are at the
best a makeshift, and so a separate in-
terrupter valve was used. As this is ar-
ranged to switch on or off at will, the
receiver is either a very efficient super-
regenerator or a “straight” receiver as
required. The interrupter is a 76.
The usual 42 pentode output and recti-
fier-filter arrangement can be used as in
the diagram, but if a 41 is used in place
of the 42 an excellent power supply
for this receiver is comprised of a Philips
3003 “B” eliminator and a six-volt two-
amp. filament transformer. With the
exception of coil data all necessary
values are indicated in the diagram.
The original receiver was made up in
rack and panel form, with the receiver-
in the top rack and permag. speaker
and power supplies in the bottom. It
looks like a commercial job, and works
even better than it looks. Plug-in coils
are used for the three bands, and the
mountings are made up of WT/22 insu-
lation (loaded ebonite) with G.R. type
sockets and plugs.
The R.F. stage is separately tuned. It
could be ganged, but there are pitfalls
in the way of so doing. As the R.F.
stage tunes fairly broadly, the extra dial
is no handicap. Capacity coupling is
used between R.F. and detector stages,
and this method was found to be the best
after trying all couplings. The 956 is
mounted through an interstage partition
and carefully by-passed, direct at the
socket. Heater and all “live” leads are
braided and earthed throughout the re-
ceiver, with the exception of grid leads.
In the plate of the detector is a special
interrupter filter, consisting of an 80mh.
choke and series .0002 pre-set condenser.
This combination must be determined by
trial. It must tune to the interruption
frequency, and in so doing keeps this
from getting to the grid of the audio
stage. The iron-core choke used for
coupling can be the secondary of a
Philips audio transformer or any high-
impedance choke. L 4 and L 5 are the
I.F. coils, and can be adapted from an
old 175 kc. intermediate superhet trans-
former.
Regeneration is controlled by the
50,000-ohm. potentiometer in the 6K7
screen-grid, and headphone or speaker
output is provided. Coil details for R.F.
and detector stages for the three bands
can be checked up in the A.R.R.L. or
Jones handbooks.
On the five-metre band this receiver is
a revelation. Stations that previously
were heard indifferently with the best of
detector input super-regenerators are
heard at R 8 levels. The 956 contributes
a remarkable degree of R.F. gain.
The 956 is by no means an inexpen-
sive valve, costing £2 155., but the writer
contends that it is as useful in an ultra-
s.-w. receiver as an 808 Radiotron is in
a modern u.-s.-w. transmitter. Those
who take u.-s.-w. development seriously
should not pass the- 956 by. For the
benefit of those who saw this receiver at
the exhibition, the rack and panel con-
struction and general finish are the work
of VK2EM, and the circuit design, wir-
ing and testing the work of the writer.
In future u.-s.-w. tests in the Sydney dis-
trict, this receiver will be used by
VK2EM at Gordon (N.S.W.). Those
interested in reports from that direction
are sure of being heard.
VK2NO.
All Round the Dial.
“Eureka”: A Sydney radio station
gave a vivid account of the incident in
Circuit of the VK2NO-2EM three-band super-regenerator .
the heart of Australia when a party
set out to rescue the stranded ex-
pedition of Gepp and co. It sounded
all right until the abo. lubras began to
speak their part. A lubra speaks pidgin
English, but not like a Chinaman.
* * * *
“Camber”: 2UW Sydney now has a
session for youthful would-be. airmen.
On Sunday mornings at 10.45 a.m. mem-
bers of the Royal Aero Club are heard
in “Talks on Aviation,” and through the
2UW R.A.F. Flying Scholarship the
opportunity is offered for free air tuition.
Aspirants are taken for a trial flight, dur-
ing which the instructor allots points. If
the points total the required number out
of a prescribed 500, training to “A”
license standard is given free of charge.
* * * *
“Kerys”: Odd how many people be-
lieve that the sound irregularities of
radio are a menace to the set (B.
19/5/’37). We were trying to hear a
Sydney station one night in Gunning
(N.S.W.) when a fierce static intervened
with sounds suggestive of a thunder-
storm. Dashing in after a particularly
loud crashing, the head of the house
yelled: “Turn that thing off! Quick!-
Stop it before it blows itself to pieces!”
* * * *
“A.8.C.”: Now that the Roman
Catholic authorities have, decided to
equip 200 of their metropolitan schools
with radio to listen to the A.B.C.’s school
broadcasts, it is estimated that educa-
tional broadcasts from 2FC Sydney will
be listened to by 60,000 pupils. An
innovation is the presentation of such
subjects as history in dramatic form.
Edmund Barclay has written dramatisa-
tions which are acted by a professional
cast. Geography is treated similarly.
Last term, a trip up the Yangtze River
was presented with dialogue, story,
sound effects and atmospheric music.
Next term a trip down the Ganges will
be presented. In secondary English, a
new series, “Progressive Dramas,” has
been arranged by Dr. G. Mackaness, of
the Teachers’ College. These broadcasts
present scenes from famous English
plays and illustrate the growth of Eng-
lish drama. The programme also in-
cludes talks by specialists, including
scientists, naturalists and travellers with
wide experience. Successful school
broadcasters have humor, use a simple,
vocabulary, and do not condescend. At
the conclusion of a session pupils are
invited to allot marks to the speaker.
J. A. McCallum, with his “World We
Live In” series, is very popular. A.W.A.
recently designed a receiver specifically
intended for school reception, and has
lent several of these instruments to
schools as an experiment.
* * * *
A. D. Barling, now discussing Aus-
tralian and overseas boxing on alternate
Thursday nights at 7.40 from 2BL, is the
Englishman who, less than 12 months
after his arrival in Australia in 1926,
won the amateur welterweight champion-
ship of Australia at Sydney Stadium by
defeating Ambrose Palmer, then welter-
weight champion of Victoria. When
there is boxing at Sydney Sports Ground
Barling referees there, and he is Leich-
hardt Stadium’s regular ref. For the
past year he has been giving short
resumes of fights from the Sydney
national stations.
* * * *
“M.F.”: Station 4BK Brisbane is
running what it calls a “Hats Off” ses-
sion. Courageous and commendable
doings are culled from the news, and the
persons involved are given a round of
(recorded) applause, following an account
of their deeds by the announcer. Every
apparently worth-while kind of action or
performance is included in the session,
a big attraction of which is its variety.
Radio Comment.
“D.C.N. Jnr.”: Include among old
gadgets which are always coming in use-
ful Philips battery chargers, which, origi-
nally costing five guineas, can now be
picked up for 12s. 6d. They are com-
plete with barretter and rectifying valve,
and will charge from one to six storage
cells in series at 1 1-3 amps. Anyone
in a country town with 240 v. A.C. could
lighten the burden of friends out of the
town by charging accumulators for next
to nothing. Some charging stations
ask six bob, plus freight, for charging a
six-volt accumulator, and sometimes the
accumulator comes back with a hurried
overcharge or the reverse. The Air-Cell
is a godsend, but not all sets are designed
for two-volt valves.
* * * *
“D.8.K.”: Whenever stuck for a set
of battery tags to identify for a non-
technical user the various leads from a
set, I root out an old stiff linen collar of
a kind I shall never wear again, and
with scissors cut out as many tags as
are needed. Marking ink and a little
binding wire through a punched hole
complete the job. Such emergency tags
are durable and effective.
* * * *
“G-Man”: An important aspect of
children’s-hour broadcasting is the influ-
ence such performances may have on
the infant mind. In the U.S.A. a script
was submitted for a serial play in which
a band of little ones solve crimes that
have tricked their elders. Everything
was “O.K.’d” except for a phrase, “He
has a heart of stone.” “How can a child
be expected to know what that means?”
demanded the programme director.
“Change it to “He’s a yellow rat!” At
another studio a room had just been
vacated by the players in a children's
programme. A visitor, entering, saw on
a sound-effects table a badly-crushed ripe
melon. Upon asking the guide what that
was for he was told, “For a sound effect
—a man’s head being bashed in with
a hammer.”
* * * *
“Videx”: There is an outcry in a sec-
tion of the radio trade against the
duty on imported radio valves, and
much correspondence has passed between
Customs Minister White and the parties
concerned. Their argument is that local
factories cannot at short notice duplicate
the very latest types of valves from over-
seas and that the use of these is essential
if Australian radio is not to lag behind.


WE CAN SUPPLY ALL
MATERIAL FOR THE
MULTI BAND
Ultra High Frequency
RECEIVER
Also all parts for any other radio
set or transmitter.
NEW BOOKS BY R.C.A.
Receiving Valves, all the
latest data
Transmitting Tube Manual
and Supplement
Cathode Ray Manual, with
Circuits and Data
POSTAGE, 2d. EACH.
1/6
I'-
i'6
PRICE’S RADIO SERVICE
D. G. McINTYRE,
5 and (5 ANGEL PLACE, SYDNEY.
Suppress
Interference!
Your radio dealer is able to suppress the
majority of all generated interference with
the aid of the Chanex Kit of Suppressors.
He will gladly advise and assist you in
your interference problems.
Chanex Suppressors conform to all regu-
lations, and are built to British Standard
Specifications 613/1936 and have been
approved for connection to the mains by
all Electricity Supply Authorities.
Whatever your interference problem, be
sure to consult your Radio Dealer.
CHANEX
DUCON CONDENSER PTY., LTD.,
73 BOURKE STREET, WATERLOO,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
And at
“Cornhill Chambers,” 450 Collins Street,
Melbourne C.l, Vic.; P. H. Phillips,
123-125 Charlotte Street, Brisbane, Q’land;
Wm. T. Matthew, 95 Grenfell Street,
Adelaide, S.A.; Carlyle and Co., 915-917
Hay Street, Perth, W.A.; Arnold and
Wright, “Levy Buildings,” Manners Street,
Wellington, N.Z.
• FREE BOOK #
A comprehensive book explaining the
causes and suppression of Radio Induc-
tive Interference is available from your
Radio Dealer or from our offices or
distributors, as listed above, ABSO-
LUTELY FREE,
“Enno”: Broadcasters in search of
unusual material could do worse than
follow the example of a Finnish station
whose programme “Grasshoppers of the
World” consisted of microphone visits
to short-wave amateur transmitting
stations in Finland. Australia has some
crack amateur stations, and the inside
working of these should be of interest.
* * * *
“D.C.N. Jnr.”: “M.F.” (B. 26/5/’37)
refers to the pending replacement of 2FC
by a new station located at Liverpool
(N.S.W.). There is more urgent need for
something to be done about 2BL. This
transmitter in the populated Randwick
district is responsible for serious cross-
modulation in many receivers, and puts
powerful harmonics on the short-wave
bands. All high- or even medium-
powered transmitters should be well away
from suburban locations. The old 2FC
transmitter could be used in place of
2BL as 2BL until a new station could
be erected on a more suitable site. The
present location of 2BL is a relic of the
early days of broadcasting when not
enough was known about radio and re-
ceivers generally for it to be foreseen that
interference was bound to occur even-
tually.
How the Coronation Proces-
sion Was Televised.
The first television broadcast from a
point some miles distant from the London
television station at Alexandra Palace
was undertaken by the 8.8. C. when the
attempt was made to televise the Corona-
tion procession from Apsley Gate, Hyde
Park.
Owing to technical reasons, the length
of the special multiple cable that has
been used for televising events inside the
grounds of Alexandra Palace is limited to
1000 feet. Consequently, control-room
apparatus had to be provided at Apsley
Gate, and to meet this need the 8.8. C.
purchased from the Marconi-E.M.I. Tele-
vision Company a mobile control-room
installed in a motor vehicle about the
size of a standard single-deck saloon bus.
Two rows of racks along each side of
the interior of this vehicle accommodated
the apparatus, leaving a centre aisle for
the use of the engineers. In all, 12 racks
—each 7ft. 6in. high and vide —
Model of the Coronation procession, constructed by H. E. Offord for a
B.B.C. television broadcast.
were installed. The total weight of
apparatus and vehicle was about 8y tons.
A reproducer fitted into the compartment
over the driver’s head enabled the con-
trolling engineers to see the televised pic-
ture. The vehicle was also equipped to
deal with sound, fade-units and amplifiers
for use with four microphones being in-
stalled.
In the broadcast, the mobile control-
room was parked on the grass alongside
Apsley Gate. Three multiple cables of a
highly-screened type connected the
vehicle with the three Emitron cameras
set up on Apsley Gate, through which the
procession passed. Two cameras, each
fitted with a telephoto lens, were
mounted on the plinth of the gate, and
transmitted views of the procession as it
approached from Marble Arch and re-
ceded towards Constitution Hill. The.
third, placed at a lower level, provided a
“close-up” of the State coach as it passed
under the arch. Each of the connecting
cables was about l|in. in diameter and
contained 27 insulated conductors, two of
them being of special low-capacity type
to carry the high-frequency impulses re-
quired by the cameras. The remaining
conductors carried the electric supplies
required by the valves inside the cameras
themselves. In addition to these three
cables, two microphone leads, also highly
screened, connected the mobile control-
room and the commentator’s point.
The essential link between the mobile
control-room and the television trans-
mitter at Alexandra Palace was provided
by a specially-designed cable—the ordi-
nary underground telephone line being
unsuitable for the transmission of tele-
vision signals, though it will carry the
associated sound —that was laid from
Hyde Park corner to Broadcasting House
and from Broadcasting House to Alex-
andra Palace. It was part of a television
cable that is now being laid in the heart
of London, passing points of interest that
may eventually be the sources of tele-
vision broadcasts. The actual route of
the cable—by tapping which connection
may be made between the mobile control-
room and Alexandra Palace —is from
Broadcasting House to Marble Arch,
Hyde Park corner, Piccadilly Circus, Tra-
falgar Square, Whitehall, Houses of Par-
liament, Westminster Abbey, Bucking-
ham Palace and Victoria.
As only one television cable is avail-
able, a mobile ultra-short-wave radio-
link transmitter is used by the 8.8. C. to
provide a standby method of conveying
signals to Alexandra Palace. This trans-
mitter works with a power of lkw. on a
wave-length much shorter than that
usually used for television broadcasts, and
radiates from a small highly-directional
aerial mounted on a pair of low wooden
masts. The transmitter vehicle is parked
alongside that containing the control-
room. Alexandra Palace receives this
transmitter’s signal by means of a small
aerial mounted at the top of the main
transmitting mast, and connected with a
receiver below.
Many problems had to be overcome
to make this unique broadcast a success,
and the experience thereby gained was
an invaluable contribution to the de-
velopment and scope of the British tele-
vision service. Outside broadcasts that'
hitherto have been of too ambitious a
nature to be practicable may well be pos-
sible as a result, not only of the know-
ledge gained from this broadcast, but of
the special cable which brings within the
reach of the Alexandra Palace station
focal points of national life as well as
London’s centres of entertainment.
Amateur Chatter.
Just to give encouragement to those
who think ultra-short-wave DX is a
mere will-o’-the-wisp hope, let’s review
what has gone before. For one thing,
there is nothing new about the trans-
mission and reception of five-metre
signals over long distances. Writer has
access to a history of U.H.F. work in
which it is recorded that in 1925 Frank
Jones developed the super-regenerator in
ultra-audion form. Copies came later.
In 1926 a then well-known Italian ex-
perimenter, Mario Santangeli, using a 40-
watt ultra-audion five-metre transmitter
at Milan, sent signals that were received
and confirmed by Capt. Filipini at a
military station in Tripoli, 1600 miles
away. Writer still has, from Santangeli
himself, the original diagrams and
photographs of the apparatus, addressed
to A2NO in Sydney in 1927. In 1926 the
five-metre signals of an American, Boyd
Phelps (U2EB), were heard at Glaston-
bury, Connecticut, with only 16 watts
input, from Staten Island, New York,
distance 120 miles. In 1927 Phelps’s
Stromberg 1937 mantel receiver.
signals were heard in Italy by Adriano
Ducati at Bologna, and Ducati’s signals
were logged by Phelps at intervals,
although they didn’t actually establish
two-way. Power was 500 watts at both
ends ; the distance a good 4000 miles.
Marcel Saces, of Casteres, France, sent
five-metre signals over 500 miles about
the same time. In 1928 an American,
2CSM, using two watts and an indoor
aerial, was heard on schedule 250 miles
overland from Brooklyn (N.Y.) over-
several ranges of high hills. These are
only a few instances of records made
long before many present-day amateurs
had seen their first vacuum-tube.
It is just on 11 years since these things
happened, and the sunspot cycle has
gone round. May there not be even
better records to-day with modern valves
to hand? The thing to do is to try, but
to do so co-operatively. It is no use
slamming signals into the air if there is
no station known to be on the job at the
other end. Five-metre signals over about
130 miles have yet to be established in
Australia. A genuine inter-State two-
way would be an achievement, and there
is Maoriland also.
Late-night tests for the summer should
be organised, with careful consideration
of vertical and horizontally-polarised
directive aerial arrays. Both should be
tried extensively, but on definite schedule.
An inter-State roster should be drawn
up with full details. Here is something
of interest to consider next summer in
place of the interminable DX marathon
contests, which make no contribution to
radio development. There are too many
contests of that kind to-day. These DX
contests may be justified if on the key,
but the ultra-short regions offer a much
worthier field for investigation. Less
talk and more serious action are needed.
VK2NO.
"Bulletin" Test Review.
{Manufacturers’ products considered worthy of
attention are tested and given an unbiased
report in this section.)
New Stromberg-Carlson Mantel Model.
There is a definite demand for the com-
pact little mantel model. People who
move about considerably, as do most
flat-dwellers, appreciate, something that is
not bulky in shifting.
With the latest Stromberg-Carlson
mantel model one can tune in with the
utmost ease the whole range of normal
broadcast and short-wave stations. It is
a five-valve dual-wave superhet. com-
plete in a moulded Duperite cabinet,
colored old ivory, lime green or dapple
brown. The dial is modelled on the well-
known Stromberg-Carlson lines of verti-
cal straight-line indication with edgelit
tuning, and all the stations on the broad-
cast range and the international short-
wave channels are clearly marked.
The chassis shows no skimping in
workmanship ; all the fine, points of the
bigger Stromberg-Carlson receivers are
incorporated. Shielded by-pass con-
densers, special tuning condensers and
even silverplatea contacts are all there.
There are four controls on the front of
the cabinet local-distance, volume,
tuning and wave-change,—and, at the rear,
aerial and earth terminals and power
cable.
This receiver is an excellent per-
former and sets a new high standard for
mantel models. It is just the thing for the
kiddies’ room, the kitchen, bedroom or
verandah, and is reasonably priced at
19 guineas. Stromberg-Carlson (A’sia),
Ltd., 124 Bourke-road, Alexandria
(N.S.W.), is the manufacturer.
The Question Box.
(1) Receivers of the Ideal T.R.F. Battery All-
waver, Wide-World Two and Wide-World Four
types described in The Bulletin are ideal well
away from broadcasting stations, but lack
selectivity when taken to a locality near a
broadcasting station. How can this be
remedied? (2) Names of manufacturers pro-
ducing receivers of this kind ? —544.
(1) These receivers are not meant for use
anywhere but outback. Selectivity can be
improved considerably by reverting to the old-
time “wavetrap” in series with the aerial. By
using broadcast coils wound on Sirufer cores
and properly screened the selectivity can be
further improved. (2) Sterling Radio, Ltd., 27
Abercrombie-street, Sydney, will make any form
of Bulletin receiver to order for use in the
islands, N.T. or similar places.


VITA- L I C K
CARRIES SHEEP
THROUGH DRY SPELL.
Mr. P. L. Barry, Tambo, Q., writes,
28\9 [’29:
“In 1919, on a rainfall of 4
inches and 20 points, I fed
1 1,000 ewes on scrub for seven
months, and used Vita-Lick at
the given proportion per head,
and at the end of the year our
sheep came to the shed in excel-
lent condition, with only a 7 %
loss for the year.”
MINERAL SUPPLEMENT
IN WINTER.
“Tri-cal”: Yes, your sheep will need
a mineral lick during the winter months.
The phosphate content of grass is high-
est in the young green shoots, and
lowest in old, dry stuff —and you know
what our winter grasses are like! That
Tri-cal-os Bone Flour is an excellent
calcium-phosphorus supplier for all stock,
and they take to it readily. Ask Davis
Gelatine (Aust.) Pty., Ltd., G.P.O. Box
35835, Sydney, for their folder on wool
production. They are really too modest
about Tri-cal-os. No extravagant claims,
merely state facts.
Old Farmer.
tAn
ss.
The Commonwealth General
Assurance Corporation Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE: Australia House,
Wynyard Square, Sydney.
BRANCHES at Newcastle and Lismore.
VICTORIA: 475 Collins Street, Melbourne,
and at Geelong.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Epworth Buildings,
Adelaide.
A modern, progressive and purely Aus-
tralian Corporation, transacting all
classes of lufe Assurance, including'-
Eight Option, Cash Bonus, Probate.
Non-Profit, Annuities, Personal Accident
and Sickness, etc.
WHY BUY BONUSES?
“MAXIMUM ASSURANCE AT
MINIMUM COST”
Write for full particulars to
A. L. HARRIS, General Manager,
Box 140 CC, G.P.0.. SYDNEY.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
Plain v. Wrinkles.
Classing; of Small Clips.
“Murrawong”: I’m sorry “Ringer
got the impression (B. 19/5/’37) that I
included owners of a few hundred sheep
in the article on “Sheafing Costs,” as I
am in entire agreement with his views.
However, when does it not pay to have
the clip classed in the shed?
When the number of sheep to be shorn
drops below a certain figure, it is diffi-
cult to attract good shearers, particu-
larly at the height of the season, and the
payment of a classer becomes unecono-
mic. Allied to sheep numbers is the
number of stands available —4000 sheep
in a two-stand shed would attract good
shearers by the prospect of nearly a
month’s work, but there would be no-
thing in it for a classer, and it would
not pay the owner to engage one even it
the classer did all the shedhand work
as well.
By making provision for four shearers,
however, the owner can still offer 1000
sheep a man, and the shearing period,
cut down to two weeks, will bear the
cost of a good all-round man who can
class, do'the experting, bookkeeping and
run the shed. Anything below a four-
stand shed is liable to be regarded as a
cocky’s shearing.
Even in a three-stand shed the number
of sheep shorn per week is too small to
stand the proportion of classing ex-
penses spread over them. Anything
under four stands is usually excluded
from staff award conditions, but this
only makes these small sheds the happy
hunting-ground of the tyro-classer look-
ing for experience.
For the man with 2000 sheep or less
the best plan is to have his sheep shorn
at some large shed in the neighborhood.
His flock will help to make that shed’s
aggregate-sheep number more attractive,
he will get better shearers and he
will have his wool handled by a classer
and woolroom staff that his own few
sheep would not attract. The job will
be done in a fraction of the time it
would take at home. Provided the owner
of the big shed does not hit him too
heavily for overhead, actual shearing
costs should be low.
The man with a few hundred sheep
and no neighboring big shed or shear-
ing depot available, should not attempt
to prepare his. own wool for market. As
“Spinner” contends, to class out the
average small clip on the types of even
a medium-sized clip would result in its
being marketed in butts and bags.
Nowadays the small man can get his
wool into the Big Lots catalogue and
share the same competition as a 1000-
bale clip. All he has to do is to shear
his sheep at home, roll the fleeces care-
fully, place singly in the pack and
consign to some reputable company
which, conducts a wool-pooling system.
Stains and • dags should be removed
from fleeces and bellies, and all wool
should be thoroughly dry before pack-
ing. If fleeces are burry on the skirts
and the owner understands the correct
amount of skirting necessary, it is an
advantage to do this before rolling.
Burry fleeces that have been pressed
are hard to open up for classing. Pack
fleeces, pieces, bellies, locks and stained
pieces separately or with a piece of hes-
sian between each sort.
Plain v. Wrinkles.
“Bungaree”: Latest information from
research into fleece characteristics of
plain and wrinkly-breeched sheep is in
favor of the former commercially.
The wrinkly-crutched sheep cut a
slightly heavier fleece per head, but this
w'as more than balanced by the fact that
the extra weight was largely condition:
when the two types of wool were scoured
the margin was non-existent. There was
no great difference in spinning qualities,
but the plain-bodied sheep produced a
staple of slightly better length and with
a larger proportion of top-line fleeces.
Flies have been particularly severe
this autumn, especially in the border dis-
tricts of N.S.W. and Queensland, where
there have been floods and heavy rains.
Several properties have been forced to
shear months ahead of the usual time or
do an additional crutching.
Most breeders are alive to the menace
of wrinkly-breeched sheep, yet when it
“ 'Scuse me, sir, but do I get that rise or don't 1 ?”
comes to culling them many lack cour-
age if*the “wrinkly-breeches” are good
elsewhere. That type of sheep must be
culled ruthlessly and consistently, and the
culls should never be put to merino rams
again. Cross them with the longwool
ram if the ewes are suitable, but don’t
go on breeding fly bait.
Treating Crow-picked Eyes.
“K.Mc.”: In reply to a request by
the N.S.W. Graziers’ Association the
Agricultural Department has advised as
treatment for crow-picked eyes remov-
ing with a pair of curved scissors any
jagged pieces (and the eye, too, it dam-
aged beyond repair), and then thoroughly
swabbing with a mixture of equal parts
of hydrogen peroxide and water. If the
eye has to be removed the cavity should
be plugged for 24 hours with a wad ot
cotton-wool soaked in the mixture.
Departmental vets., however, are not
confident of the treatment once infection
has spread.
C.S. and I.R. investigations show that
the bacteria which cause the trouble in
crow attacks belong to the “gas gan-
grene” group, and the only method or
control is to vaccinate against the com-
mon types of gas-gangrene organisms.
As this would not restore sight and
would probably be uneconomical, the
most practical method of control is to
wage vigorous war on the crow.
Maize for Sheep.
“Ghanam”: It is a proved fact that
maize alone will maintain sheep when
all other food fails, provided they have
water and are not driven.
This points the way to experiment in
the production of a concentrated drought
fodder —say, lucerne and maizemeal,
compressed together for easy transport.
Such a combination should be free ot
some of the disabilities of straight maize
feed, animals fed on which may stop
ruminating.
When feeding maize by itself a lick —
including bonemeal, about 15 p.c., with
2 p.c. Epsom salts and the balance ordi-
nary salt—should be given.
Not long ago N.S.W. Agricultural
Dept, experiments showed that dry
merino ewes over a year on 12oz. maize
per day (cost 16s. 4d. p.a.) without any
other food did better than other animals.
Maize and lucerne proved more expen-
sive, but the lucerne proportion was very
high, the grain being only 20 p.c. of the
total ration.
My idea is that the lucerne should be
reduced to a minimum and the maize
milled so as to reduce its bulk for
freighting.
Pasture Management.
“Rom Ney”: If the sheepman is to
get the best from his pastures he must
realise that efficient management doesn’t
end with establishing the sward. Sub-
division of paddocks, rotational graz-
ing, seeding of introduced grasses and
retention of the best of the native
drought-resisting plants must be part of
the programme.
In north-west N.S.W. graziers depend
mainly on the rich growth of native
grasses during an average summer. Mit-
chell, Panic, Star, Flinders, Early Spring,
Brown Top, Plains and some of the Love
grasses resist dry spells and satisfy stock.
It is wise to reduce the stocking tremen-
dously when these natives are seeding,
otherwise they will soon disappear.
For winter grazing in the north-west
lucerne offers best prospects. If sown
at the rate of 21b. to 31b. per acre in
early autumn, it catches a moist seed-
bed and warm conditions and gets well
away before the cold, dry weather comes.
Further south, about Mudgee, Parkes,
Dubbo, Condobolin, Grenfell, etc.,
native pastures fall
away, and here lucerne
and sub. clover come
in. Top-dressing the
natural pastures with
lcwt. of so of super,
every second autumn
works wonders in pro-
ducing softer, more
nutritious plants.
Lucerne should be
sown in autumn on
fallow, 21b. to 31b. per
acre on the high land,
51b. to 61b. on the low ;
super., about per
acre, sown with the
seed. Established stands
should be cultivated in
winter to check weed
growth and keep down
barley grass —a strong
winter grower likely to
crowd out lucerne,
Plenty of lucerne
means sappy lambs
free from grass-seed;
also it means high
prices.
Lucerne is best in
the south-west and near
Riverina, pr e f erably
sown on cultivated
land. Super, is indis-
pensable if the owner
would increase the pas-
ture strength, carrying
capacity and lamb
quality. Established
stands in these parts
appreciate lcwt. of
super, per acre every
second year in late July
or August. Seeding
rate is from 21b. to 61b. per acre accord-
ing to elevation.
On the plains, the stockowner needs
to conserve native plants by giving them
a chance at seeding time. Native grasses,
herbage, salt-bushes, edible trees and
shrubs are the main forms of fodder, and
edible trees and shrubs should be
planted wherever possible. A good plan
is to mark out certain paddocks each
year, allow native plants to seed and
thicken, and keep the stock off until this
is accomplished, no matter how good
the seasons. Continuous stocking will
end in denuded pastures, the beginning
(Continued on page 44.)


“A DOZEN WAYS TO HELP THE FARMER”
Examples of the
unequalled range of
•rce*
SJMSHINE
MASSEY HARRIS
Every implement has features of GENUINE SUPERIORITY.Study them—they live up to the slogan "Sunshine Massey
' Harris Farm Implements Work Well and Last Long."
MADE IN
AUSTRALIA
BY
SUNFEED GRINDING MILL.
Authorities agree that ground feed is definitely
superior to whole. “SUNFEED” grinds maize,
wheat, oats and all other dry grains. WILL
GRIND MAIZE AND COB TOGETHER
(highly nutritious for stock). Feed and
fineness of grinding are easily regulated.
Strong, well balanced, all steel. Safety-
break pins avoid damage from foreign sub-
stances.
With two pairs of grinding plates (medium
and' coarse) and two spanners.
Price £9/10/-
SUNSHINE SAW BENCH.
Cuts a 7-inch log with 26-inch saw, or
)-inch log with 30-inch saw. Spindle
i|in. diameter. White Metal Thrust
Bearings. Fast and Loose. Pulleys.
Fence adjustable for ripping
Note: A hole in the spindle (also set-
screw hole) takes the shank of a bit. A
boon when boring fence-posts and
Jroppers.
Price (without saw) £l6/15/-
Circular Saws.
26-inch m. W/-
30-inch £3/5/-
SUNBEAM SINGLE-
FURROW PLOUGH.
For General Farm Work.
’orks well in any class of soil. Clearance
t throat ISin. Mouldboard -27 in. long,
akes “D” pattern share. Strong beam of
ouble bulb section steel. Cuts furrows to
in. deep and Bin. wide. Length Bft.
uries weeds well and sets up a. good comb,
rices:—
With Wheel
and Knife
Bare. With Wheel. Coulter.
oth Fixed
andles . . £6/7/6 £6/17/6 £7/6/-
Gth Shifting
andles (for
rchard
T ork) .. £7/7/6
£7/17/0
£B/6/-
SUNSHINE CHAFFCUTTERS
Have stop motion and reversing gear. Ex-
tended rail for outer bearing. Fast and
loose pulleys and belt shifter. May be fitted
with short elevator and double bagger spouts,
or with long elevator from 10 to 20 feet.
Stationary No. 5. 2-knife; approximate
capacity lOcwt. per hour; Bi-inch mouth.
£l7/15/-.
Stationary No. 4AX. 3-knife; approximate
capacity 25c\vt. per hour; 81-inch mouth.
£22.
Stationary No. 2X. 3-knife; approximate
capacity 35ewt. per hour; 91-inch mouth.
£23/10/-.
Prices of elevators and 2 bagger spouts on
application.
Portable No. 2XP, with short, elevator and
2 bagger spouts '.. £39
SUNBIRD
SINGLE-FURROW PLOUGH.
A One-horse or Pony Plough for Orchard,
Vineyard, Garden or light Farm Work.
Splendid for burying weeds and green manu-
rial crops.
Double bulb section beam gives great
strength. Furrows 9in. wide to 6in. deep.
Polished Board 19in. long. Adjustable Bridle
16in. long.
Prices: —-
With Wheel
and Knife
Bare. With Wheel. Coulter.
With Fixed
Handles ..£3/15/- £4/5/- £4/12/6
With Shifting *
Handles (for
Orchard
Work) ..£4/2/6 £4/12/6 £5/-/-
2 furrow (without coulters) £l2
3- (without coulters) .... £l6/17/6
SUNGRADE
STUMP-JUMP REVERSIBLE
DISC PLOUGH.
For Hillside and Small Farm
Ploughing.
Has draught-controlled jump. Light on
the horses. Discs adjustable for under-
cut and breast-cut. Width of one or
both furrows can be independently
varied. Both discs cut uniform depth.
Discs easily reversed.
Price: Two-furrow, with 26-inch discs,
pole, neck-yoke and two-horse
bar £2l/10/-
With four-horse swings £23
New Type
Renovating
Implement.
Eliminates
Clogging.
SUinPRONG rotary
PASTURE RENOVATOR.
A general-purpose implement for har-
rowing and renovating all types of
grassland. Its rotating, cultivating action
enables it to take care of varied grass
cultivation not previously practicable.
Harrows and aerates the soil without un-
necessarily injuring the turf. Gives con-
trolled work, better cleaning.
Price , £2 °/f/;
Fertilizer and Seeding Boxes can be fitted
at moderate extra cost.
<7
SUNPALM STUMP-JUMP
PASTURE RENOVATOR.
The most successful implement yet de-
vised for putting fresh life into paspalum.
9 tynes, 3ft. 6in. cut. Each tyne jumps
individually, and the roughest paddocks
can be renovated. For paspalum reno-
vation, Tickler Points are supplied. They
penetrate readily to a.good depth.
Price (with forecarriage) £2O/10/-
¥
x \
iUNROOTER
PASTURE RENOVATOR.
Jght in draught, yet strong enough to
ake the pull of a two- or three-horse
earn when called upon to renovate
natted paspalum growth. Width of cut,
>ft. 2in. with Tickler Points. Tickler
} oints are supplied for grass renovation,
rut for cultivation other sizes can be
itted. A feature —the Swivelling Rear
Wheel, which balances the implement ad-
nirably and assists in turning.
’rice, with five rigid tynes and Tickler
Points £5/2/6
SUNROW
VISIBLE SEED PLANTER.
Sows Maize, Peas, Beans, Peanuts,
Broom, Sorghum, etc. Available with
or without fertilizer hopper. The sow-
ing plate revolves in view of the opera-
tor. Four sowing plates are supplied.
Prices i
With Seed Hopper only £6/15/-
Witli both Seed and Fertilizer
Hoppers £B/10/-
Cotton Seed Planting Attachment,
£2/5/- extra.
Marker 10/6 extra
SUNFLOW
FERTILIZER DROPPER.
Lime or superphosphate can be sown in
a great range of quantities. Quantity
sown can be varied instantly. Simpie
star feed through double outlet, ensuring
perfectly even distribution. Agitator
Attachment can be supplied. Also a
Seed Box can be attached to the Btt.
3in. size for sowing lucerne, rape, etc.
These attachments are moderately priced.
4ft. Sin. sowing width—hopper capacity
two bags £l9/10/-
Bft. 3in. sowing width—hopper capacity
three bags £29/10/-
(12ft. sowing width also available.)
UNDIAL FARM ENGINES.
eliable, simple, give greatest power at
OW PETROL COST. Horizontal
pe, four-cycle, hopper-cooled. Pligh-
ted governor; high-tension magneto,
h.p. four-cycle, cylinder 4-inch bore by
stroke • ■ • • •
•h.p. four-cycle, cylinder 5-inch bore by
1-inch stroke
pnCPI The General Catalogue
r rf&CS § ives y° u 96 ot
" " information and lil'istra-
ions on Sunshine and Massey Harris
UDS TO BETTER FARMING. Ask
he local Agent for your free copy, or
vrite direct.
All these prices are for delivery at Sydney. 24% discount for cash; or< liberal terms are available.
SPECIAL LEAFLETS give detailed information on each implement. Ask the local agent, or write to
H.V. McKAY MASSEY HARRIS PTY. LTD.
(INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA), SUNSHINE HARVESTER WORKS, SUNSHINE, W. 20, VIC.
Headquarters in N.S.W.: 27-39 Broadway, Sydney.
Also 195-97 North Terrace, Adelaide; Murray and King Streets, Perth.
Melbourne Showrooms: 654-664 Bourke Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Queensland Distributors: H. V. McKay Massey Harris (Qland) Pty.
Stanley Street; also Glenelg Street, South Brisbane, Q.
Ltd.,


USE COSSACKS FOR
COUNTRY WEAR
use ABBEYS for quality
A fitting companion for the
man on the land is this new
Abbey Working Cossack.
Strongly made with heavy
double sole and leather
lining and an upper of
tough-wearing Calf; it’s built
to last. j
The comfort, of course, is
the same as any other Abbey
model . . . perfect.
ABBEY SHOES
316 George St., 224 Pitt St.,
SYDNEY.
Telegraphic Address:
“ABBEY BOOTS, SYDNEY .”
130B.
Made in Black and Brown Calf in full
and half sizes.
Prices: Black Calf - - - - 27/6
Brown Calf - - - - 27/6
Also order a tin of Dubbin to keep
Working Boots soft and supple.
Price, 2/6.
WOOL GROWERS
T
BAKER’S
GOUGE CAUE
DEHORNER.
With “c 11 p”
blades l’or calves
under 12 months.
Hand forged
throughout.
Length 27 inches
overall.
Price, £4/4/-
N.S.W. Postage,
2/9;
Interstate, 5/6.
Smaller Size,
£3/18/6.
N.S.W. Postage,
2/-;
Interstate, 4/6.
Send
for
Illus-
trated
Cata-
logue.
431—LAMB
CLAMS.
About Sin. over-
all. Bright
Polished Steel,
Brass Guard,
with Black Horn
Handle G r i p.
Width across
jaw, llin.
11/6 each.
Made in Sheffield.
“MIDGET"
SCOOP
DEHORNER.
For scooping out the biuls of
calf horns. Length, 16in.
Price, 15/-. Postage, 1/-.
' '
T
CLOSED
OPEN
f5ooo~b^
STUD DOCK (BEG.)
PATTERN ALUMINIUM
SHEEP EAR LABELS.
These can be closed with
a Flat-nose Plier and will
not pull open.
Price, 15/- per 100.
In lots of 500 or more,
12/6 per 100.
Pliers for Closing Labels,
4/- each.
The above Prices include
name or initials and
numbering.
PLAIN LABELS (no
stamping), 12/6 per 100.
T
No. 15—SOLID
LEATHER CASE.
Contains Baker’s Red
Tang Dagging Shear,
irpint Galv. Bottle and
Sharpening Stone.
Price, 23/6.
Postage, 1/3.
IMPROVED
BLOODLESS
EMASCULATOR.
Length overall, 12in.;
width of jaw, 2fin.
Price, £3/10/-
each.
Postage, 1/6.
This size is the most
suitable for all-round
work.
W. JNO. BAKER Pty. Ltd.,
3 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
NEW SOUTH WALES SHEEPBREEDERS' ASSOCIATION
FORTY-SECOND ANNUAL SHEEP SHOW
16th, 17th, 18th and 19th June, 1937.
To be held on the
SHOWGROUND (Moore Park), SYDNEY.
PRIZE MONEY AND TROPHIES EXCEED £1000.
Judging will commence—■
MERINOS, CORRIEDALES, POLWARTHS AND 1
BRITISH BREEDS, FEEECES, AND FAT SHEEP j
a.m. Wednesday,
16tli June.
THE “LORD STONEHAVEN” CUP, FOR THE BEST 1
EXHIBIT OE EIVE MEBINO SHEEP j
10 a.m. Thursday,
17th June.
SHEEP DOG TRIADS —10 a.m., Thursday, 17th June, and Friday, 18th June.
JUNIOR & SENIOR JUDGING COMPETITIONS—9.30 a.m., Friday, 18th June.
OFFICIAL LUNCHEON AT 1 pan., FRIDAY, 18th JUNE.
OFFICIAL OPENING AT 3 pan., FRIDAY, 18th JUNE.
FINAL OF SHEEP DOG TRIALS, SATURDAY AFTERNOON. 19th JUNE.
Motor Cars owned by Members of the Association and Royal Agricultural Soc. of N.S.W. — Free.
Endeavour House,
33 Macquarie Place,
SYDNEY.
Admission—Adults 3/-
Children Cd.
Grandstands Free.
G. C. SOMERVILLE,
Secretary
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price tor the original.
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/8, post tree.
of wind erosion and quick growth of
useless weeds.
Denuded areas can be regrassed with
natives by collecting seed from well-
grassed areas and sowing over the flogged-
out parts. Where rainfall is fairly good,
lucerne, Rhodes or Wimmera rye, or all
three, may be tried with a likelihood of
success. Average land as far out as
Nevertire has given a cut of lucerne hay
after a good spring and early summer.
Beef—and Our Mistakes.
“C. Punch”: We’ve been told often that
our beef fails in Britain to bring prices
equal to those paid for Argentine beef
because it lacks quality, yet we go on ex-
porting the same type of stuff.
When shall we realise that the day of
the four- and five-year-old bullock is
past? Prime baby beef is our only
hope. Every other beef country concen-
trates on producing an animal of 5001 b.
to 5501 b. deadweight with the greatest
possible proportion of saleable meat.
Only small-boned, evenly-fleshed
cattle can meet the British demand for
the biggest proportion of beef to bone.
Breeding is important, of course, in
obtaining this type of animal; feeding
is equally important.
Cattle fatten well only on a good,
balanced ration. It is an established fact
that big, coarse-boned types are bad-
doers —first to lose condition, last to re-
gain it and slowest of all in maturing.
Well-balanced rations, fed in a con-
centrated form from birth, result in
calves maturing early and being fit for
market at two years to two and a halt
years.
The recent Sydney Show proved that
we had the breeders. What we need is
more lucerne, more grain, more con-
centration on fattening, and a policy of
no check in growth.
We need to drop the idea that nobody
else can tell us our business. We have
no business—in beef cattle —compared
with those from whom we should learn.
Three-day Sickness.
“Bovis”: While three-day sickness was
rampant in Queensland none of the
several islands in Whitsunday Passage
which run dairy herds had had the sign
of an attack. Then one islander’s cattle
went down after the place had been
visited by a man who had been among
infected cattle on the mainland!
Another islander received a visit from
his brother, who came from a district in
which the disease was playing merry
blazes. Immediately, his cattle took the
disease.
A third and more isolated islander,
Lamond, of Molle Islands, had a bigger
herd which was not showing a trace of
the sickness. A friend blew in from
Brisbane, where the disease was then
causing concern. Within two days some
of Lamond’s cattle took the disease, and
the rest soon had it.
All this, of course, might be only coin-
cidence ; but three such authenticated
experiences in a row suggest possibilities
that experts should at least look into.
Is This a Record?
“Hortus”: The last litter from the
Large White sow Strathmore Perfection,
owned by A. G. Stewart, Cedar Pocket,
Gympie (Q.), comprised 14 pigs at birth.
At eight weeks they weighed from 331 b.
to 511 b. and 41.61 b. on an average.
All were reared; one, which weighed
491 b. at eight weeks, was so small at
birth that it was taken away from the
sow when a day old and hand-reared.
During suckling the sow was fed on
separated milk and meal. The piglets
were fed at trough with mother and
helped themselves to a meal mixture at
a separate self-feeder.
Pigs—and Pigs.
“Pappamosca”: A few years ago the
pig was the most unstable of animals,
likely to revert to the type of its wild,
sawback ancestry when breeding mixtures
went wrong. Of late years breeds have
become, much more stabilised.
Breeding capacity, ability to produce a
high or low output of flesh in proportion
to feed, size, bone and general symmetry
are now all transmitted. So it is just
as important to establish stable breeding
lines from desirable animals as it is with
any other class of stock.
Power to transmit hereditary charac-
teristics does not necessarily reside in an
animal because he happens to have good
conformation and meat-making possibili-
ties. Only experiment can show his
capacity, and it is better to buy for stud
purposes animals which have already
produced progeny than to rely on pedi-
gree and appearance.
Even the best boars are more sensitive
to their surroundings and feed than any
other animal, and, in any case, will not
throw 100 p.c. superiority. For these
reasons one of the most necessary tasks
is culling. This, to the stud man with
small capital, is always painful, but cull
he must, and cull rigidly.
Pork v. Butter.
“Yeoman”: Which domestic animals
will return the largest yield from a theo-
retical farm producing, say, 1000 tons
of green fodders and natural pasturage
in 12 months, or from other fodders,
grains or meals equivalent in digestible
nutrients or feeding value?
Of the 1000 tons of green fodder 40
p.c. would be clovers, 25 p.c. lucerne,
20 p.c. natural pasturage, 10 p.c. ensilage
and 5 p.c. millet.
The feeding value of a fodder or
grain is the digestible dry matter in each
expressed in albuminoids, carbohydrates
and fat. Thus, 1001 b. green lucerne con-
tains 3.41 b. albds., 12.21 b. carbhs. and
0.51 b. fat; lucerne hay, 11.31 b. albds.,
391 b. carbhs. and 1.21 b. fat. An animal
would require to consume 3301 b. of
green lucerne to get the same quantity
of digestible nutrients as in 1001 b. lucerne
hay. A smaller quantity of grain would
give the same result.
A feeding ration should be balanced
to give approximately the correct ratio
of albds. to carbhs. and fat.
The quantity of digestible dry nutri-
ents (water-free) in the 1000 tons of
green fodder, etc., mentioned would be
about 342,5001 b to 9501 b. per
day, giving a nutritive ratio of one albds.
to nearly five of carbhs. and fats. That
ratio is on the “narrow” side. The nutri-
tive needs of the following animals, ex-
pressed in dry matter, are:
Dry Nutrients
Weight. Per Day.
lb. lb.
Milking cow .. 1000 28
Ewe (breeding) .. 100 3
Pig (average) .. 50 to 160
(2 to 6 months)
The 1000 tons green fodder would
maintain 33 cows for the 12 months on
a milking basis. If the average vearly
yield was 600 gallons of milk testing
4 p.c. fat worth Is. per pound, the annua!
return from the herd of 33 would be
£396 for butterfat.
The quantity of green fodder would
maintain 280 ewes, 10 rams and 50 hog-
gets for replacements, disclosing the fol-
lowing return:
280 ewes (101 b. wool; 18d. per lb.) £2lO 0 0
50 hoggets (81b. wool; 18d. per lb.) 30 0 0
10 rams (151 b. wool; 18d. per lb.) 11 5 0
210 lambs at 15s. each .......... 155 0 0
£406 5 0
It is not practicable to grow pigs on
green fodder alone. They need a full
share of concentrates. At least half of
the required nutrients (water-free basis)
would have to be supplied in the form of
boiled maize, maizemeal or other crushed
cereals, etc. This will not affect the total
quantity of dry or water-free feed sub-
stances taken as a base for comparisons.
That quantity, at the average rate of 3|lb.
of dry matter per day per pig, would sup-
port 270 pigs ranging evenly from two
months to six months. The average gain
in live weight should be lib. for each
41b. of dry water-free nutrients con-
sumed. Thus, the total gain in weight
would be 2371 b., worth, at 4d. per pound.
£3 19s. per day, or £1442 per year. The
profit on the gain in weight in the first
two months of the pig’s life —not taken
into consideration —would meet a Jaige
portion of the cost of maintenance of
the breeding sows.
The neglected grunter seems to win.
Sweet Clover.
“X.T.”: Why doesn’t sweet clover get
a better run in Australia? This Asian
native is a popular fodder in U.S.A., to
where it was taken just 200 years ago.
One thing that might be held against
it is that it has the makings of a pest in


ENDURA
UnanvXtloaalhi & Perpctmdhi Gutrranbrd
gdg
Conklin Endura
Pens and Pencils.
Many things bloom and look
well when first brought into
contact with everyday affairs,
but fade and droop after the
first encounter with Life. The
Conklin “Endura” Fountain
Pen is not one of these; —no
wilting or turning back for it.
Handsome and beautifully
symmetrical, it enjoys the
“ups and downs” because the
ordinary ones —the everyday
trials—leave it unharmed.
Some disasters are, however,
too great for it to resist.
Against these, and accidents of
any kind, the Conklin “En-
dura” owner is protected by
an unconditional guarantee of
free repairs.
Conklin Endura Pens
and Pencils
are dedicated to never-ending
service and are unconditionally
guaranteed against accidents
or breakages of any kind.
The Pens are priced at
30/- and 40/- each.
Pencils to match at 25/-.
Complete Sets in Presen-
tation Case, 55/- and 65/-.
Use Conklin Fountain Pen Ink
—the best for every Pen —4oz.
bottles in all colours, 1/- per
bottle.
From all Stationers, Jewellers
and Departmental Stores.
“This new
Swiss treatment
banished my
CATARRH"
mine was a stubborn
case.
Amazing* results
are reported by
catarrh sufferers
who have bene-
fited from the re-
cent discoveries
of a brilliant
Swiss research
scientist. Mucous
dischargees, stuffi-
ness, phlegm and
bad breath van-
ish when patients
adopt his treat-
ment . . . head-
aches, head noises, deafness, loss of
vitality and the numerous symptoms
attendant on this disease are ended
with magical swiftness. Over 200,000
persons in England and America
gained relief with this simple home
treatment; and it is now available to
sufferers in Australia.
LONG-STANDING CASES YIELD
Even the most stubborn cases of
catarrh quickly give way. This is
only natural. Duboise, who per-
fected this method, has proved that
catarrh IS DUE TO AN ABNORMAL
CONDITION PRESENT IN THE
BODY OP THE SUPPERER, and is
NOT due to climatic conditions. His
treatment goes direct to the CAUSE,
and, by purifying the blood stream
of catarrhal and other poisons, brings
effective and lasting relief.
NO DRUGS, SPRAYS OR DOUCHES
The treatment is free from any harm-
ful, habit-forming drugs. Nor does it
consist of dangerous sprays, messy
douches and atomizers. It does not
attempt to drug the system with
makeshifts. It sets to work AT ONCE
to root out the cause. It does this
in a healthy, natural way. Even child-
ren and elderly people in a weakened
condition respond immediately to the
soothing and healing qualities of this
wonderful treatment. You are not
offered free samples because this is
a scientifically-planned treatment.
SCIENTIST’S BOOK
FREE!
This book tells of the researches made
by M. Duboise, and of the amazingly
simple and effective treatment which
is now available in Australia. No
catarrh sufferer can fail to benefit by
reading this interesting, intimate
book. It discloses the cause of
catarrh, and its natural common-sense
treatment. Knowledge like this can be
yours for the cost of a postage stamp!
Cut out and fill in the coupon and mail
it off, NOW!
..... •CUP HERE
Charlton Sinclair Ltd., Dept.. L ;B /G
26 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Please send me FREE, M. Duboise’s
valuable, illustrated booh on Catarrh,
and tell me how I can clear away my
catarrhal trouble. 1 enclose 2d. for
postage.
NAME
ADDRESS
’jvwwwAmmwvv.
If any illustration in The Bulletin
takes your fancy, write to the manager,
who will quote you price for the original
rt-.r-
i*ST
r ■y^aRST
•e-r*
Sa^
'-•??
-.‘Vr *
t&Vtf • ;$*#$? ; :^r-
&??
/-
v&#%m
I
■?y
s*
v_* ■-
*•■■
s*
a
iw;
3*3
a
y--.r
I 1
• a*
■M
rss
!.r.:w
■>fe
eiv.»r-
-»*>
r<V*y
?s**
•*£»£
gs£
&££$
S'- 1 *
**3
0^
Q u
-rf£
£> *--
i&mtf
“British Built
What a world of confidence
these words inspire—what
promise of performance they
hold! In every sphere of engi-
neering, British workmanship
stands supreme.
miejt
&
a
9?
CD
CO
33
fS
V
rn
<P
*
//ANDPV
Have you
Seen the
NEW
s
"Clipper"
44
Comb.
isTen
Sheep Shearing
MACHINERY
See it at the Sheep Show!
Lister Guaranteed Sealed, Ball-Bearing Overhead Brackets, equipped
with the new Ratchet “in-and-out” Gear, and driving Lister “Ace”
Handpieces, are outstanding examples of British workmanship. They
offer every improvement that engineering skill and ingenuity can
devise, coupled with the guarantee of lifetime service that only Lister
can give. Sooner or later you will equip your shed with Lister
“Duplex” and Lister “Ace” Handpieces. Let us have the oppor-
tunity now of proving to you how much time and money this ideal
combination can save you.
Sole Agents for New South Wales:
DANGAR,CEDYE&MALLOGHLtd.
MctSioch House, 10-14 Young Street, Sydney.
“The House for Pumping Machinery .”
cultivation, but it need not be a nuisance
if grown in the right places. Its native
heath is in fairly high lands, but it seem:
capable of adapting itself to any con
ditions.
Botanically a melilotus, it is a sweet-
smelling branching plant, and sometimes
reaches Bft. in height. It is a biennial,
but usually does not do much growing
the first year. In the second, it is at full
height in a couple of months. In the
southern States of U.S.A. it is cut for hay.
Stock take a little time to get used to
the taste of it, but when they do they
like it.
A capital place for trying it out would
be along Queensland watercourses where
Bathurst burr is getting a hold.
Top-dressing Virgin Land.
“Thorley”: “Hortus” (B. 12/5/’37)
says “it is not much use top-dressing
virgin soil if there are no clovers or
legumes about.”
They usually are about. To test it, in
a paddock where super, has never been
used and clover cannot be seen, burn
enough brushwood to char the grasses
and surface soil. Almost certainly clover
will show up.
The clovers only need feeding. From
my experience, a fair first dressing is a
bag of super, to the acre.
With super, at £3 10s. a ton cash and
a 10s. rebate, a lot of pasture improv-
ing can be done. It seems the soundest
way of improving a holding and increas-
ing returns.
Sugar Banana Growing.
“Johnno”: The sugar banana (B.
5/5/’37) is certainly a good one to grow,
having the advantage that it can be
profitable in places where the Cavendish
yields indifferently. But there is this
objection: sugars are so subject to a
disease that often a plantation has to be
abandoned when it should be in full
profit.
The disease, which, attacks the heart
of the tree, making it streaky and brown,
is much more prevalent on old ground
than new; but even on virgin scrub-
lands and alluvial river flats it is apt to
arrive after the first cutting. Dry weather
appears favorable for its development,
and a dirty plantation will also encour-
age it.
Once this trouble appears there is no
remedy but to start a new plantation,
and plants need to be selected with the
greatest care. No plants, however
healthy-looking, should be taken from
a stool in which the suckers, on being
cut through at the base, show a heart
streaked with brown. Bulbs should never
be planted from a disease-affected plan-
tation.
Some Queensland sugar banana
growers have succeeded by uprooting the
plantation after the second cutting (first
sucker crop), and replanting on new
ground, but this is possible only where
there is an unlimited planting area.
In good-rainfall districts sugar bananas
can profitably be grown on compara-
tively poor forest areas without fertilis-
ing, but best results are obtained from
the richer soils.
Owing to a tendency to split if allowed
lo hang too long, it is best to harvest
sugars directly the fruit looks full and
round. Once cut, don’t delay in getting
the bunches to market.
“Nabawa”: To save waste when feed-
ing baled hay to sheep, Coddington
Bros., of Murrumburrah (N.S.W.), place
an old disc at each end of the bale, then
push an iron stake through the holes in
the discs and through the bale, driving
the stake into a log, thus holding the
bale upright. As the sheep nibble the
hay away, the top disc drops, keeping the
bale intact and preventing its being scat-
tered all over the paddock.
“Mornie”: When, about 1920, all
classes of hides rose to high values,
the &kins of the Bedourie canary were
bringing about 30s. each. In western
Queensland, shortly before, I had invested
£5 in a flock of goats to ensure chops
for breakfast occasionally. The chop
supply came to a much earlier end than
intended, and a cheque for £6O recon-
ciled me to an unbroken diet of corned
beef. As for shearing William, I once
barbered 40 Angoras on the Batchelor
(N.T.). Never again! The pungency of
the patients, plus their outcry during the
operation, was worth much more than
the few bob I earned in the six hours’
work.


WILCOX, SMITH & CO
Postage Stamp Merchants,
Liverpool Street,
Dunedin, N.Z.
16 Page Buying and
Selling Ust Free.
Established 49 years.
Bankers: The Union.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —Janies Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq. ; M. J. Ryan, Esq. ;
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —D. S’. FORBES.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 97
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
Profitable!
S HO rT ST Enjoyable!
METROPOLITAN SCHOOL
6 Dailey St., Sydney, OF JOURNALISM
Our Service Department
Wants.
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be cpnfined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Returned soldier (38), exp. all sheep and
station work, six years in charge of property
at Moree, wants employment. Refs. —5945.
Station-hand, young and energetic, last posi-
tion n.-w. Queensland, wants work on sheep
station, anywhere.—s 943.
Young Tasmanian (21), public school educa-
tion, knowledge typewriting, wants position any-
where, preferably clerical (especially library or
book club). —5991.
Youth (18), strong and willing, some exp.,
wants job on sheep station, either merino or
fat lambs, in S.A. or Vic. —5976.
Hiking club, Sydney, wants male members.
—5982.
To buy London “Sphere” for June 13, 1936.
English or overseas edition.—s 977.
To buy part No. 26 of “Marvels of the
Universe.” —5934.
To buy Grasses and Fodder Plants of New
South Wales, by Bakewell.—-5940.
Information Sought.
(i) What is the accepted method for a referee
or judge to adopt when allotting and recording
points in a boxing contest? (2) Is there any
difference in the scoring as between professional
and amateur bouts? —5907.
(1) The method of most referees is to allot
five points to a round, giving three to the
winner and two to the loser, four to the winner
and one to the loser or five to the winner and
none to the loser, according to how the round
goes. If the rgund is even, two and a half
points are given to each boxer. The points
of each round are added at the final bell, and
the boxer scoring the greater number is awarded
the decision. Points are given for clean hitting,
aggressiveness, cleverness and knockdowns, and
penalty points for fouls. Clean hitting is lead-
ing with a jab, a clean blow as a counter punch,
following with clean punches to the head or
body after breaking-up a lead, feinting and fol-
lowing through with a clean hit. Aggressive-
ness is a steady forcing of an opponent and
landing leads as he backs away. Cleverness in-
cludes warding-off a lead, beating an opponent
to the punch, neutralising his natural style by
making him fight when he wants to box or
vice versa, effective guarding in clinches and
clean counter blows. A clean knockdown
counts for more than one caused by a series of
punches, but the general custom is to allot
two points for a knockdown, the fighter who
was floored being thus able to come back and
outscore his opponent sufficiently to win the
round three to two. Thirteen fouls are listed,
but the “no-foul” rule means that use of any one
of them brings a caution only, instead of dis-
qualification, to the offender. When a boxer
commits such a foul, however, he loses all
points for the round in which the foul occurred.
The fouls are: (a) Hitting below the belt, (b)
hitting an opponent while he is down or while
he is getting up after being down, (c) holding an
opponent or deliberately maintaining a clinch,
(d) holding with one hand and hitting with the
other, (e) butting with the head or shoulders or
hitting with the knee, (/) hitting with the inside
or butt of the hand, the wrist or elbow, (g)
hitting or “flicking” with the open glove, (h)
wrestling or roughing on the ropes, (i) pur-
posely going down without being hit, (;') striking
deliberately at that part of the body above
the kidneys, ( k ) using the pivot blow or rabbit
punch, (/) using abusive or profane language,
(m) failure to obey the referee after due warn-
ing. (2) Except for the “no-foul” rule, which
does not function in amateur bouts, the method
of allotting points does not differ. When there
are no judges the referee interprets all rules
and allots points.
* * * *
(1) Names and addresses of film-producing
cos. operating in Australia? (2) List of people
connected with the making of a film ? (3) The
meaning of “A.S.C.” after photographers’
names, and qualifications necessary to obtain
this distinction ? (4) Are film technicians im-
ported or obtained in A ustralia ? If Australian,
where do they get their training? —s76o.
(1) Cinesound Productions, Ltd., Ebley-street,
Waverley, Sydney, is the only Australian
organisation at present producing continuously.
(2) Executives, all or some of whom may be
engaged in the production of a picture, are
producer, director, assistant-director, photo-
grapher, sound engineer, film editor, art direc-
tor, script-writer, dialogue director, casting
director, production manager. (3) Stands for
American Society of Cinematographers. Quali-
fications required are a certain period and
nature of experience in camera and film work
and proposal by a member. (4) Film techni-
cians working in Australia are nearly all Aus-
tralian-born and, apart from a few who have
worked temporarily in American studios for
experience, are self-trained. Some have even
pioneered technical developments in film-
making. For instance, Cinesound engineers
invented their own sound-recording system.
* * * *
Origin and organisation of the Canadian
Mounted Police? —5915.
The force was organised in 1873 as the North-
West Mounted Police; in 1904 it became the
Royal North-West Mounted Police, which name
was in 1920 changed to the Royal Canadian
Mounted Police. From a force of 300 men in
1873 it has grown to 2500. It is controlled by
a Minister of the Crown and may be employed
anywhere in Canada, although its principal
responsibility is the maintenance of law and
order in the Yukon Territory, the Arctic
regions and the North-West. The force may
also be “hired” by any province for the en-
forcement of provincial laws by arrangement
with the Federal Government. The term of
engagement is five years for recruits, with re-
enlistment for one or three years; officers are
commissioned by the Crown.
* * * *
What is the historical basis for the story
of Dick Whittington and his cat ? —5965.
It has its origin in the career of Richard
Whittington (1358-1423), who arrived in London
at the age of 13 to seek his fortune. Becoming
apprenticed to Sir John Fitz-Warren, a mercer,
he eventually married his daughter, acquired
wealth, and later became Mayor of the city on
four (not three, as in the old rhyme) occasions,
in 1396, 1397, 1406 and 1419. He was
knighted by Henry V., and earned a great repu-
tation for benevolence. The story of his
leaving London in despair and being called
back by the sound of Bow Bells may be authen-
tic, but the cat is purely legendary.
* * * *
(1) How many persons die yearly from cancer
in Australia ? (2) Has occupation any relation
to the deathrate? (3) Deathrate from cancer
for each State ? —5966.
(1) In 1935 the deaths from cancer totalled
7310. (2) Of males who died from cancer in
1935 percentages were: Professional 7.08,
domestic 2.60, commercial 9.79, transport and
communication 7.00, industrial 18.23, agricul-
tural, pastoral and mining 23.45, clerks and
laborers 23.27, indefinite 7.45, dependent 1.13.
(3) 1935: Deaths per 100,000—N.S.W. 105,
Vic. 123, Qld. 96, S.A. 104, W.A. 106, Tas.
114, N.T. 118, F.C.T. 32.
* * * *
Australian wheat export and quantity imported
by principal buyers ? —5964.
1934-35: United Kingdom 41,198,165 bushels,
Japan 15,530,035, China 13,663,893, Egypt
1,605,768, Belgium 253,920, Union of South
Africa 21,027, Italy 18,838, Netherlands 7507,
others 3,660,537. Total export 75,959,690
bushels.
* * * *
(1) Components of glass? (2) Treatment in
manufacture ? —5946.
(1) Ordinary bottle-glass consists of purified
sand, 100; chalk or limestone, 38; ’sulphate
of soda, 43; cullet, or fragments of bottle-
glass, 100. (2) The raw materials are ground,
mixed, deposited in a melting-pot of finest
fireclay and placed in a glass-melting oven (a
modified form of reverberatory furnace). When
the fusion is complete a scum rises to the' sur-
face and must be removed. After this the heat
is increased to between 10,000 and 12,000 deg.
F. to render the material fluid and limpid and
free it of gaseous bubbles. When refining and
vitrification are fully accomplished the heat
is considerably reduced to allow the glass to
reach a workable stage. From here onwards
the treatment depends upon the desired type
of glassware.
* * * *
(1) How did Britain come to have suzerainty
in India ? (2) What is Britain’s present posi-
tion ? (3) Any books on the subject? —ss27.
(1) Trading concessions granted to the
British East India Co. early in the 17th century
gradually expanded into governing centres, and
during the wars with France French settlements
passed into British possession. Intervention in
native disputes led to further accretions and
the gradual bringing of native kingdoms under
British control. (2) British India, is divided into
15 administrations, each under a Governor.
British control in the native States varies con-
siderably in degree, and, except in certain
matters which affect India as a whole, the
local administration is not interfered with. The
native princes are, among other things, for-
bidden to make war, and the Government can
intervene in case of misgovernment. Supreme
administration is in the hands of the Secretary
of State for India, and there is a Legislature
consisting of the Viceroy, a Council of State
and a Legislative Assembly. (3) Rise of
British Power in the East (M. Elphinstone);
works by A. D. Innes, Sir A. Lyall and H.
G. Rawlinson (1920); also biographies of Clive,
Warren Hastings and others, the Cambridge
History of India, or any encyclopaedia.
* * * #
What goods did Australia export to China
during 1935-36, and the respective values of the
various commodities ? —5927.
Butter, £54,996; meats, £4110; milk and
cream, £118,652; biscuits, £694; fruits, dried
£960, fresh £4758; wheat, £868,864; flour,
£7399; jams and jellies, £3143; wool, £1900;
sandalwood, £27,513; stearine, £3033; tallow,
£4060; leather, £9865; timber, £9401; sleepers,
£49,631; drugs and chemicals, £1047; ships,
£1600; other items, £26,795.
* * * *
I have a number of old Edison diamond-
disc phonograph records which will not repro-
duce on an ordinary gramophone pick-up.
What type of needles should I use for satisfac-
tory reproduction ? —5809.
The Edison system of recording employed
the vertical (or hill and dale) cut; modern
records employ the lateral cut. These systems
call for different types of pick-up. The hill
and dale type is not procurable in Australia,
and even if it were it would not be worth your
while to buy one as your records are obsolete
and their tonal qualities are inferior to modern
electrical recordings. A change of needle will
not remedy the trouble.
* * * *
Translation of the following passages: (1)
“Et lesquelles out traine plus longtemps que
je n’avois cru.” (2) “Oh, Madame, je sais bien
que vous etes une vraie diablesse, mais je vous
ferai savoir, moi, que je suis Belzebuth, le chef
des diables.” (3) “Dans une brume doucement
sonore.” (4) “Doux et fluide.” (5) “Peu a peu
sortant de la brume.” (6) “Commeun echo de
la phrase entendue precedemment.” (7) f‘°J~
tant et sourd.” (8) “ Dans la sonorite du
debut”? —5804.
It is impossible to give a proper translation
of some of the extracts as their meaning lies in
relation to the missing portions of the sentences
from which they were taken; also, verbs may
have different meanings (“trainer” can mean “to
drag” or “to lie about”), which are dependent
on the context, so numbers 1,3, 4, 7 and
8 can only be translated literally. (1) “And
which have been lying about for longer than
I thought.” (2) “Oh, Madame, I am well
aware that you are a devil, but I would have
you know that I am Beelzebub, the prince of
devils.” (3) “In a haze softly sounding.” (4)
“Sweet and fluid.” (5) “Emerging little by
little from the haze.” (6) “Like an echo of
the preceding sentence.” (7) “Floating and
deaf.” (8) “In the sounding start.”
* * * *
Particulars of literary competitions promoted
by N.S.W. Government in connection with
Australia’s 150/7* Anniversary Celebrations? —
5928.
Prizes will be allocated as follows: Short
story, first prize £BO, second prize £2O; full-
length play, first prize £125, second prize £25;
poem (not more than 50 lines), first prize £5O,
second prize £10; long essay (not more than
30,000 words), first prize £lOO, second prize
£3O; short essay, first prize £5O, second prize
£lO. Entries for the competitions will be received
only from persons born or naturalised in
Australia, New Zealand or the British South
Pacific islands or bona fide residents of any
of these places for the three years preceding
the closing date. All rights will be reserved
to the authors. Works entered for the com-
petition must not have been published in any
form. Every work must be submitted under
a nom de plume ; arid the correct name and
address of the author, with the nom de plume,
must accompany the manuscript in a sealed
envelope. No competitor may enter more than
three works in one section, but any com-
petitor shall be eligible to enter works in
all or as many sections as he wishes. Clos-
ing' date will be December 31, 1937, at
noon, and all entries received after that hour,
whether delivered or posted, will not be eligible.
All entries and inquiries must be addressed to
S. Elliott Napier, chairman, Literary Com-
mittee, Australia’s 150th Anniversary Celebra-
tions, G.P.O. Box 3845 T, Sydney, and plainly
marked “Literary Competitions,” with the
number of the sections for which entry is
intended.
* * * *
Best way to exterminate slaters that are
attacking the mortar and stonework of the
foundations of a cottage? In some places
they have removed all the mortar from between
some bricks and are apparently lodged in the
cavity in the wall. —5860.
Spray the infested wall with kerosene or
petrol (being careful that it does not come in
contact with flame) for seven consecutive days,
with further sprayings if any of the vermin
survive. Baits of equal parts of blood-and-
bone fertiliser and arsenate of lead are effec-
tive.
* * * *
Some hints on raising the snail flower? —
5664.
A medium rich loamy soil is best. Sow in
spring in an outdoor seedbed, and when seed-
lings have been thoroughly hardened trans-
plant to the open garden, allowing 24in. to
30in. between plants. An abundance of water
is necessary in dry weather, and protection
must be provided during the first winter, after
which the plants will establish themselves. Each
year in the late spring give the plants a mulch
with well-decayed cow manure to conserve the
soil moisture and keep the roots cool. When
watering, spray over and under the foliage with
the hose to check red spider.
* * h= *
Best chemical fertilisers for flowers ? How to
apply, and when? —4831.
Superphosphate and bonedust are best.
Work the fertiliser deep into the soil at dig-
ging-time, so that plant roots will get the
nourishment when well established. Fertilisers
are at their best mixed with stable or cow
manure. Superphosphate has the quicker
action, bonedust the greater effect on color
of flowers. Generally 2oz. to the square yard
is the correct portion, but poor soils can be
helped with 3oz. In mixing fertilisers with the
soil a pronged fork will improve distribution.
* * $
Recipe for making flour from bananas? —
5140.
Fruit should be ripe but not soft. Skin and
strip off all stringy pieces, slice down the centre,
lay out on greaseproof paper on trays and dry
m a mild oven, turning frequently. When
perfectly dry, crush with a pastry roller on a
board, sift and store in covered jars. Very
difficult for the amateur to make, on account
of the high water content of this fruit.
* * * *
Recipe for dog biscuits? —s627.
Cooked meat, free of fat and gristle,
should be finely chopped and dried a little on
sheets in an oven. Then make a dough of 84
parts of good wheaten flour by measure and
16 parts of the dried chopped meat, with
about one teaspoon of salt to every 21b. in
weight of the two dry ingredients; moisten with
sufficient cold water to make a light dough,
roll or press out on a board, mark into biscuit
portions, and bake in a moderate oven until a
light brown. Store in airtight tins. If you
find that this makes too flat a biscuit, use self-
raising flour for the next batch. Chopped bones,
bonemeal and phosphate of lime may be added.
* * * *
What are fig-birds ?—: 5171.
Birds about the size of thrushes, found in
northern and eastern Australia, New Guinea,
neighboring islands and Timor. The males are
yellowish-green above, with black heads, black
tails and yellowish underparts; the females
are brown above and whitish below, streaked
with brown. In both sexes there is a patch
of bare skin round the eyes, extending for-
ward to the bill, colored bright scarlet in males
and purplish-grey in females. They feed on
scrub fruits, especially those of fig-trees.
Brief Answers.
F.G.P.: The aboriginal words Tucabia and
Wohinam are not in any available lists. The
meaning of Taloumbi is “windy plain”....
W.G.A.: (1) Is not likely to be of any parti-
cular value; name is not mentioned in any
reference books. (2) Not recorded in Lutgen-
dorff Dictionary; probably one of the little-
known makers working in Klengenthal, Ger-
many.. . .K.HJ.: Carefully analysed, the Judge’s
summing-up is that it should not be difficult
for the jury to find the accused guilty. But the
jury might be excused if, in view of the extra-
ordinary tangle of verbiage, it believed it was
being instructed to acquit W.P.: The race-
horse Chester was owned by E. de Mestre and
later by James White, whose colors he carried
when, as a three-year-old, he won the Victorian
Derby and the Melbourne Cup in 1877 G. 8.:
The “Rule of Twelve” you are after is probably
the duodecimal method of calculating areas and
volumes in feet and inches. Most people find
the straightforward method quicker and surer.
There are various books on the market con-
taining hundreds of such dodges, but very few
of these short cuts are of practical value....
H.J.M.: (1) “Foundress” is the correct word;
there is a modern tendency to use the masculine
form such as founder, author, editor, etc., irre-
spective of sex. (2) No underpainting is re-
quired ; apply direct to clean cement. If you
are making a new path, you will obtain a more
lasting color by mixing dry color in the final
topping of smooth concrete... .S.H.: No
figures available... .R.8.C.: The head office of
the N.S.W. Axemen’s Ass. is at 22 The Boule-
varde, Lewisham, and the cost of membership
is ss. per year. The financial year of the ass.
expires on February 28 of each year, when new
memberships are due W.M.: Couldn’t
undertake a search of that nature... .D.S.N.:
The Bulletin Reciter, published by the N.S.W.
Bookstall Co., Sydney, will serve your purpose.
. ...A.W.M.: The languages known as
“Romance” are Italian, Spanish, Portuguese
and French; these being directly derived from
the Latin, i.e., Roman... .J.E.F.: Mme. Curie
died in 1934, at the age of 67, in a sanatorium
in Haute-Savoie. She was of Polish birth. Her
husband died in 1906 from the effects of a
street accident. Two daughters survive her;
one is married to M. Joliot, a French scientist.
... .A.M.E.: Lloyd’s is the name given to a set
of subscription rooms at the Royal Exchange,
London, where all the principal underwriters
for marine insurance carry on their business.
Shipping intelligence is received there from
agents in every part of the world. The name
arises from the fact that an association of
underwriters formerly held its meetings at Lloyd’s
Coffee House, long ago pulled down
W.P.L.: (1) Do not know of any book dealing
with this subject alone. Plywood, by W. B.
Little, and Three-Plywood, by the same author,
contain references to the manufacture. (2)
Price, 4s. 9d. each, post free, from Dymock’s,
426 George-street, Sydney... .J.M.: (1) The
Sydney Harbor Bridge was opened March 19,
1932. (2) The N. S. Wales Savings Bank sus-
pended payment April 23, 1931, but a little
later payments were resumed on a modified
scale. It amalgamated with the Commonwealth
Savings Bank on December 15, 1931 R.J.F.:
“R. 1.” after the name of an artist signifies a
member of the Royal Institute of Painters in
Water-Colors. “R.A.” means Royal Academi-
cian (a member of the Royal Academy of Arts
in London) and represents the highest British
distinction of its kind. Members are elected
only from the class of associates, represented
by the letters “A.R.A.” W.S.L.: (1) From
Excelsior Supply Co., 154-160 Broadway,
Sydney. (2) From Is. 3d. to 65., according to
size... .J.A.S.: (1) About sd. (2) £ll 13s. 4d.
if the weight is exactly scwt. (3) Moreland
Metal Co., 3-5 Market-street, Sydney
W.A.S.: (1) Autocars, Ltd., 258 Castlereagh-
street, Sydney, was the last firm to have the
agency, but gave it up a year or so ago. (2)
Try Shields Motor Co., 6 Flinders-street, Mel-
bourne, C.l A.E.: Your best course —and
it should not cost much —would be to get a
solicitor tc write demanding the return of the
deeds and stating that if not returned within a
certain time proceedings will be taken for their
recovery... .A.W.: You have no lien on the
buildings, but a creditor who has obtained a
judgment in any Court of Petty Sessions may
apply to that Court for an order that the judg-
ment debtor be orally examined as to whether
any debts are owing to him. Such Court may
make the examination and issue a garnishee
order. Wages or salary of £2 or under cannot
be attached; beyond that you may recover
J. 8.: (1) There is a strict supervision of such
places, but no licensing in your sense. (2) and
(7) You can prosecute for trespass and claim
for damage done. (3) Inquiry at the nearest
police station would probably give you the
information. (4) If a letter is wrongly addressed
and the addressee cannot be found the letter
is usually returned by the postal authorities to
the addressor. (5) To steal wood from a man’s
land is a punishable offence. (6) The children
of the first marriage are entitled to the “few
hundred pounds” given to them under their
mother’s will, and if that money has been
converted into land they are entitled to the
land. (8) and (13) Debts allowed to remain
unclaimed for six years cannot be recovered.
(9) Can see no objection. (10) A matter of
arrangement between the parties. (11) The
owner must pay the contractor and no other
person. (12) He has no right to take the wood.
(Many others mailed.;


GLORIOUS SOUTH AFRICA
SOUTH AFRICA is a land of
perennial sunshine and abiding charm, where
countless delights await the visitor.
Although a country of vast distances, the prin
cipal scenic, historic and industrial districts
can be speedily reached in the utmost comfort
by the renowned South African Railways.
On your next trip to England, travel
one way via “The Cape” and spend a
short holiday in South Africa.
BLUE FUNNEL
WHITE STAR-ABERDEEN
Joint Service to
SOUTH AFRICA & ENGLAND
For particulars apply Local Agents any capital city.
%* Wild €af
fttonthlM
j «/
Australia's Leading Financial Journal.
JUNE ISSUE NOW ON SALE.
BORROWING IN LONDON.
THE GOLD QUESTION.
DECLINE IN POPULATION.
THE SHAREMARKET.
PRICE 2/- PER COPY, OR £l/216 PER ANNUM POSTED.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., 252 George Street, Sydney, and all Statea
ipiiMU
W , ,111/IC
wmmi
inn
#'{
#
SCSf!
«
e^.
II ir'brrr'
Snwkm stains on MYteatA ?
NEVER!
i)
tr
ms SPECIAL TOOTH PASTE . /f
KEMOV& SM^fEWAY
No other leading dentifrice contains the special STAIN-REMOVINQ ingredient
that is in Pepsodent. Nor can any other restore the natural whiteness and sparkle
to dull, ugly, smoke-stained teeth ... so speedily, effectively and safely.
YOU SMOKE, then you have
noticed stains on your teeth,
or ugly yellow smudges.
Pepsodent, the special film-remov-
ing tooth paste, removes that film,
those ugly stains, keeps teeth white
and sparkling. If you use Pepso-
dent, not the faintest smoke stain
will show.
Safest and Most Effective Way
The special ingredient in Pepso-
dent is designed especially for the
removal of film. It is this film that
absorbs the smoke stains. To re-
move the ugly yellow colour, the
film must be removed, and Pepso-
dent will remove it. Your dentist
too, will tell you the advantage of
removing film to avoid tooth decay
and other dental troubles.
In addition, Pepsodent is the softest
. . . therefore the safest, of 15
leading tooth pastes and 6 tooth
powders. Scientific tests have
proved it.
Try Pepsodent today, then you will
know how really white your teeth
are, how smilingly attractive your
mouth can be!
PEPSODENT
THE SPECIAL FILM-REMOVING
TOOTH PASTE
NOW IN A
NEW 10%
LARGER TUBE
MORE TOOTH PASTE
FOR YOUR MONEY
THE 2/- SIZE IS THE MOST ECONOMICAL
1373 0
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
E.G.: Nothing of interest in the Gentlemen’s
Underwear Department disturbance... .E.A.H.:
More bright, happy writing —an old woman
cleaning a doctor’s surgery!... .8.W.K.:
Labored V.L.: Not a smile in it F.S.:
Much too thin Z.V.W.: Your barmaid’s is
an old, old story R.S.: Not up F.N.8.:
It had. one distinction —the first story to arrive
inspired by the Coronation... .F. 8.: Charmed
by your cardsharper who hands back his win-
nings because a pretty girl, whom he doesn’t
know, is in love with the victim... .1.M.: You
still fail to make it stick... .L.J.E.: Not inter-
ested in your “transient reverie,” and the big,
black nigger fails to hit the mark.... L.T.:
Still not quite what we want J.D.McC.:
Unimpressed by image of a Sydney building in
a storm as “a giant monolith crumbling to de-
stroy u5”....L.C.: Nothing for us in that
batch H.S.C.: It doesn’t rise above album
verse... .0.P.Y.: Far outside our paddock....
K.E.C.: It didn’t quite get past, but we’d
like to hear from you again... .J.H.J.: After
all, there are rules that differentiate poetry from
prose. You throw most of them overboard.
G.E.G.: We’re afraid they’re very ama-
teurish S.W.: Found “The Mating Call”
harsh... .P.McD.: “Do I look like ever becom-
ing a successful contributor to your pages?”
Not on present appearances, but one never
knows H.R. (London): “I am posting you
a poem which I wrote in half-an-hour under
unusual inspiration.” How many did it take?
S.S.: Miles out of our line J. 0.: You
rhyme reasonably enough and your philosophy
is sound; no marks for anything else
E.C.H.: Quite readable, but no nearer the gate.
—B.W.: It’s been a dry year in Sydney, too,
but it doesn’t run to a column E.E.: If
you’ve “cornered and caught a thousand wild
stallions” you outstrip all the stockmen with
whom we were ever acquainted.... R.W.: We
dislike those “unicorn” lines at the end of
every verse G.8.C.: It won’t d 0... .E.D.V.:
Room for four lines only:
In solitary grandeur stands England,
Bereft of her power and might,
Like an oak denuded of its branches,
Like a man who goes down in a fight.
But does she? K.W.8.: Rhyme and metre
alike faulty; doubt if we could give you any “ac-
ceptable criticism” R.K.: Send it to the girl
herself....C.V.S.: Neat, but too thin.... 8.0.5.:
Give us something we can smile at 8.H.E.:
Noted with resignation that you’ll write more
for us if you can find the time A.R.: No
billet here for gum-chewing detective 1.F.:
“The Wandering Philanthropist” is wandering
some more... .H.C.S.: Seems unfair even to a
mother-in-law P.P.: We couldn’t yard that
“magnificent specimen of virile horseflesh”
either... .L.0.M.: A very ordinary bagman....
M.E.W.: That yarn must know its own way
here, and back, by now N.8.K.: The “plain-
tive cry of a famished child” moved the cash-
box-keeper to tears, but nothing more....
S.M.: A regular visitor L.D.8.: We de-
ciphered the first three pages of your “Cheers
for Harry” and then gave up the unequal
struggle R.A.: “I trust that this brain-child
of mine shall reach the editorial sanctum.” It
did; you should have it by this... .C.T.: En-
tombed in the dungeon we keep especially for
that discarded-lover-saving-the-life-of-his-rival’s-
child yarn... .L.N.: That “gripping tale of the
lives and loves of the outback guardians of the
law” caused never a stir as it fell into the
w.p.b A.P.: Con Drew’s already pegged
that claim D.W.: You’re the third this week.
R.F.: No, we don’t want that “type of
stuff.”
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
W.H.8.: Sketch of two blocks of granite
holding a conversation declined F.W.: Lop-
sided, and shadows should fall in opposite
direction... .N.P.: Even hermits must have
heard that gag A.H.D.: Do you use bolsters
for models? T.C.: Hardly likely to set a
continent laughing E.R.T.: Take more time
over drawings and think up brighter gags
L.S.: Walter the Wallaby might suit a chil-
dren’s comic paper A.S.: No visible signs
of improvement H.H.D.: A hurried count
revealed about a dozen major errors... .W.N.:
We’re always running up against that seasick
passenger... .G. 8.: Still in the kindergarten
stage... .H.V.: Same old goat butting same old
sightseer over same old cliff K.M.: You
break most of the rules J.F.8.: Even a con-
tortionist couldn’t tie himself up into such a
knot D.D.: You’ve a long, long trail ahead
of you R.H.8.: Not amused at spectacle of
Dave trying to eat plate of spaghetti C.G.:
Timber-getters as wooden as the trees J.T.:
Two or three years at an art school should set
you on your feet.... W.J.F.: No handouts for
earless and noseless swagman C.P.: Post-
mortem on it wasn’t flattering to the artist....
S.E.: It takes more than a few scribbles in
faint pencil to win a Bulletin cheque G.L.:
You’ll need to get over tying inscribed bal-
loons to the lips of your characters M.K.D.:
Almost got there; somewhat tame gag put it
out H.C.G.: The pains you take to avoid a
curved line make us suspect that you cannot
draw one... .C.M.8.: Nelson chuckled at that
jest; drawing very elementary P.S.: Work
with a broader nib and don’t overcrowd draw-
ings... .J.H.: There have been instances of
artists making good without lessons, but you’re
unlikely to add to their number A.C.J.:
No bid for large and crude picture of Russian
bear riding Spanish bull C. 8.: An insipid
piece of art, and gags are very withered chest-
nuts.
A MIXED GRILL
“R.T.W.”; N.S.W. Police Commis-
sioner Mackay’s fervent appeal on behalf
of the force at the, s.p. inquiry was not
devoid of mixed metaphors, and his New
Testament knowledge was weak. He
said:
It is very hard for a young man to an-
tagonise himself against the sergeant and
some others. He is on the threshold of a
career, he is on the horns of a dilemma,
and even the Twelve Apostles, with all
their education and training, had a doubt-
ing Peter among them.
Surely some graduate of the new Police
College could have told him that it was
Thomas who doubted.
* * * *
“Pollen”: Watched a boy employee in
a suburban grocery store weighing out
lib. packets of ordinary flour from a bin.
He was filling each packet with 16oz. of
the stuff and losing £2 a ton for his boss.
Dog-biscuits are another line that pull
only 1001 b. to the cwt.; yet I saw the
manager of a large city retail store weigh
out 16oz. to a customer.
* * * *
Robert Hollis, who has passed on at 86,
was “Old Bob” even in 1917, when the
conscription issue and his loyalty to
Holman put him out of politics. He was
30 when he came to Australia to join the
N.S.W. railways; five years later he
became secretary to the Locomotive
Engine Drivers. A good type of the
solid and stolid conservative trade-union-
ist, he held the Newtown (N.S.W.) seat
from 1901 to 1917.
* * * X
“Te Ngakara”: M.L. Labor, hitherto
slow in recognising veterans of the democ-
racy of the Ballance and Seddon days,
has appointed Jack Rigg, now nearing 80,
to the Electoral Boundaries Commission.
Jack, who was C.M.G.’d in the Corona-
tion honors, got three terms of seven
years each from Ballance and Seddon in
the Leg. Council. Massey would not
reappoint the veteran, who was an admir-
able Chairman of Committees, and he
thus missed the Speakership. Rigg has
since published a standard book on chair-
manship.
C.S.”: In most part of Japan the
taking of photos, by tourists is strictly
prohibited. Years ago in Java I had my
camera taken from me and the plates
broken for taking a picture of the fish
market at Sourabaya. How different in
this country! The last time we were
visited by a Jap training ship every
trainee had a Kodak slung across his
shoulders. The Harbor Bridge was
snapped from every angle, the sound of
clicking shutters could be heard every-
where, and I met a party of the little
men, all equipped with the camera, close
to Sydney’s Middle Head and George’s
Heights fortifications.
* sfc H*
“Turl”: Few Oxford careers can have
been more, strange than that of Sir Edward
Grey, the English naturalist-cura-states-
man of whom Gladstone is quoted as
having said that he “never knew a man
with more aptitude for politics and less
inclination for political life.” Grey was
at Balliol when Jowett was Master, and
in 1884 that stern disciplinarian sent him
down for two terms, “after repeated ad-
monitions,” for persistent idleness. Grey
returned at the end of that period and
passed his final schools. But he never
bothered to take the degree to which he
was entitled until 20 years later. And in
1928, an elder statesman by this time,
he found himself appointed Chancellor
of the University, of which Jowett had
never been more than Vice-Chancellor.
H*
“Runa”: If the Westralian goods-trains
(B. 26/5/’37) are slower than those of
M.L. they must be snail-like indeed.
Some years ago I travelled by a goods
to Helensville, about 30 miles from
Auckland ; on the same, train was a man
with pastepot and posters advertising sal-
vage. goods. At each station he descended
in leisurely fashion, collected his chattels,
sought the near-by hoarding and pasted
up his notices. At one. station he met
a friend and went up-town for a spot.
We were slightly perturbed when he did
not return, but he was waiting for us at
the next station, the friend having driven
him the intervening four miles in a sulky.


:**jl
if®
wM
" “ Val 6 . n „ V^» cU ° & Son
u t\v» r V vA t l ueVU San4 eV ’ s ° \863*
n\d x Sa» e \»o
the < finC «*** Ael „and* • •
1 8 «J
t' lC , qii pleas e
, di* u , „ <*oo« 1
* .id «'«" ,
1W 'S'Ple.se'.
“ W6 1. •
4tVat o^
dWa* ks *
an 1
■
«cotcH w Hl :
UttUtOR W/Tl'tt WHf&r.t
V».37
Distributors: John Woods and Co., Ltd., 388 Sussex Street, Sydney.
Sub Agents: Pitt, Son & Badgery, Ltd., 4 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Q’land Distributors: Australian Estates Co., Ltd., Creek St., Brisbane.
ESTABLISHED
1834
THE
Commercial Banking Company
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND £4,300,000 0 0
(Used wholly in the business)
RESERVE CAPITAL . . . . £4,739,012 10 0
DIRECTORS:
JAMES ASHTON (Chairman); EDWARD R. KNOX;
OWEN E. FRIEND; SIR WM. VICARS, C.8.E.;
ORWELL PHILLIPS.
General Manager:
C. DARVALL.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS
TRANSACTED
Head Office: 343 George Street, Sydney
London Office:
18 BIRCHIN LANE, LOMBARD STREET, E.C.3.
London Bankers:
The Bank of England; Westminster Bank, Ltd.; Barclays
Bank, Ltd.; National Provincial Bank, Ltd.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout—
New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, South Australia.
And at Canberra, Federal Territory.
Agents throughout the World.
Les Darcy's Last Fights and Last Days
No. 20 of a series of articles on the great Australian boxers.
“Friends” of Eddie McGoorty started
the story that he had sold his fight with
Darcy. The tale was carried to Cali-
fornia by a Colonel Somebody, and Syd-
ney bookmakers believed it so implicitly
that when the pair were matched again
they offered a shade of odds against
Darcy.
Between the first fight and the second,
each boxer had been kept busy. Darcy
had whipped Billy Murray in 20 rounds
and six rounds; Fred Dyer, “the Singing
Welshman,” in six rounds, and Jimmy
Clabby in 20 rounds. McGoorty had
knocked out Joe Bond in a round, Billy
Murray in four rounds, Harry Reeve in
six rounds and Mick King in 10 rounds.
Since the historic fight between Burns
and Johnson, no contest had evoked
greater interest than the second Darcy v.
McGoorty bout, and there was an im-
mense crowd in the Sydney Stadium that
Boxing Night—lB,ooo, it was calculated,
although the management avoided giving
precise figures. A limit of list. 61b. had
been prescribed, and neither man ex-
ceeded it, but if there was no difference
in weight there was a vast difference in
demeanor.
As Darcy sat in his corner, he looked
the picture of confidence and sported a
wide, boyish grin. There was no grin
on McGoorty’s countenance, nor, as was
soon to be indicated, was there any con-
fidence in his heart.
When the gong summoned them to
their task, Darcy led and McGoorty
jumped in with a left to the side of the
head and a right to the body—both
good and hard. The visitation would
have staggered anyone else. All it did
to Darcy was to rub his grin off. As they
parted from the mix-up, the Maitlander
clamped his teeth together and rushed in.
McGoorty tried the left again, but found
a glove this time and one for himself on
the left eye. He went in to clinch, and
got one on the ribs, another on the ear,
a third on the ribs again, and then a
short uppercut which lifted his head sud-
denly. It was Darcy’s round by a mile.
The lad’s mastery of McGoorty was
absolute from the first half-minute. He
overwhelmed the American —carried the
fight to him with a courage, speed and
certainty of execution that, in view of
Eddie’s unquestionable powers of bash
and endurance, were a revelation to
everyone.
McGoorty was simply a chopping-
block. The left hook was a dismal failure
—as it always must be when used on the
retreat against a man with a quicker
and straighter punch—and when it
missed the consequences were painful.
McGoorty commenced seeking the
shelter of the clinch and holding down
Darcy’s right. When he couldn’t keep
it down he suffered badly. Darcy’s great
strength left the other at his mercy, and
strong hard jolts to the chin and bangs
on the ear followed on one another like
cracks of doom.
By the end of the third round, the
American had been so horribly knocked
about that he was already an object of
compassion. In the fifth he was knocked
clean off his feet for nine seconds. He
got up, to take some more, until the
protecting gong let him reel to his corner.
He became weakened and demoralised,
fighting without method or force, just
throwing a wild haymaker about occa-
sionally ; and all the time he was on the
run, bleeding and bruised.
In the eighth round, a powerful right
to the jaw put McGoorty down again.
He staggered once more to the perpen-
dicular, beaten and almost helpless, and
then the towel, propelled by a merciful
hand, fluttered in.
It was an unmarked Darcy who took
the cheers of the multitude. He had out-
classed the most dangerous middleweight
in the business —so absolutely as to make
the great McGoorty look like a dud. A
most remarkable, performance.
"Greek George."
“Les Darcy, eleven eleven; George
Brown, eleven eight and a half.” Such
was the announcement made at Sydney
Stadium on the night of January 16,
1916. Brown looked the tough customer
he was to prove himself in Australia ;
in America he was known as “Greek
George” and also as “Knockout”
Brown. Darcy’s weight showed that he
had not trained as seriously as he had
done for McGoorty, and his hands were
in bad shape ; but he speedily made it
evident that the “Knockout” man could
not have knocked him out, even by
accident.
At the beginning Brown rolled in with
a crouch and a smother and a bash in
either hand; but his bashes were de-
livered with great deliberation and with-
out particular intelligence, and they
DARCY.
mostly made a whistling noise as they
dashed the atmosphere aside in intervals
of clinching. The Greek was very strong,
but the Australian was stronger; and,
besides taking stiff jolts on the jaw,
Brown was handled at close quarters
with visitations to ribs and chin.
A rough, confused struggle, redeemed
from being wearisome by Brown’s wild
misses, his great courage and his un-
consciously amusing swank in trotting
back to corners, it went the whole way,
with the usual result. Brown had not
won a round. Darcy was unmarked, and
his grin remained at the. old address.
Brown caught Darcy below par again
when they had the return match
in April, 1916. This time Darcy weighed
only list. 31b., while Brown was list.
101 b. Les was sickening for ’flu and
should not have been in the ring. He
contented himself, for the most part,
with boxing at long range, and ran out
an easy winner on points. Only twice
did he cut loose ; on each occasion, much
to his opponent’s relief, he promptly
pulled himself up. Throughout the 20
rounds, he made very little use of his
right.
Clabby Meets His Master.
Jimmy Clabby was a boxer of rare
skill, a ring strategist of exceptional
craftsmanship and holder of a long
record of successful performances in the
U.S.A. and in Australia; but he found
his box of tricks useless against Darcy.
The pair had two encounters in the
Sydney Stadium ring, the first on October
24, 1915. In this affair, except for one
round, the Maitlander held the upper
hand all the way. In the eighth, Clabby
reeled to the ropes, his defences down,
completely at the. Australian’s mercy—
and mercy he received. For 14 rounds
he was mostly on the run, hanging on
in clinches, getting severely punched and
handing back scarcely anything.
The second meeting (it took place on
September 10, 1916) was about as excit-
ing as a sewing-bee. Clabby struggled
desperately, but it was mainly to get
possession of Darcy’s gloves. He kept
cn doing it from the first round to the
last, except when the referee dragged
him away, and then he started to do it
again. In some of the 20 rounds he
scarcely struck a blow. In the thir-
teenth, Clabby was saved by the bell;
in the twentieth, he was so weak that he
could scarcely stand. As in the first
argument, he had not won a round.
Darcy Fights Heavyweights.
Darcy got among the heavyweights
when he shaped up to Harold Hardwick
at vSydney on Feb. 19, 1916. He also
got one of his teeth knocked out. In
the seventh collision, Harold was up-
ended three times in succession, where-
upon his seconds delivered the towel.
This match was billed for the heavy-
weight championship, though Hardwick’s
ownership of the title had been disputed
by Colin Bell, Les O’Donnell and others.
O’Donnell, who had been a protege of
Tommy Burns, questioned Darcy’s right
to it, and at Sydney on March 25, 1916,
was settled in seven rounds.
The Costica Comedy.
On May 14, 1916, came, a comic inter-
lude in Darcy’s short boxing career. It
was a two-man show, the party of the
other part being Alexandru Costica,
who had come to Australia via tire
U.S.A. American pugs in Sydney
solemnly recommended him to order a
coffin as Darcy was sure to kill him;


.Wonderful holiday tour to this
world of mystery and charm, by
way of Salamaua, Rabaul, Cebu,
Manila and Hongkong—return-
ing via the same ports with
additional calls at Saigon and
Sandakan. The m.v. "NEP-
TUNA" sails regularly from Mel-
bourne and Sydney. Excellent
cuisine and service sports
deck, swimming pool, etc. . . .
Fares are free of exchange.
At your request we shall be
pleased to fonvard folder No. 78.
s. co! ltd.
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
Telephone: B 7901
BUMS
PHILP
312 Collins Street, Melbourne
128 Adelaide Street, Brisbane
m
i§p$&C>'
'■’.‘A
mm
Fl
, zm-:' ' xW
Wm
A
My
■ . .
a
sparkling
success
now...
At one time people thought her dull because she seldom smiled,
but she’s not afraid to smile now since someone told her that powder
polished teeth to perfection. All dentifrices contain some powder
that’s what does the cleaning, but Calvert’s is ALL POWDER
that’s why it makes your teeth gleam and sparkle ALWAYS.
F. C. Calvert & Co., Ltd., England.
CALVERT’S
carbolic TOOTH POWDER
An important chapter in ocean travel has been
written by the Canadian-Australasian Line (Inc. in Canada). Since
1893 this trans-Pacific service has been a link between Australia and
Canada..
Calls are maue at
AUCKLAND, N.Z.; SUVA, FIJI; HONOLULU, T.H.; VICTORIA, 8.C.;
and VANCOUVER.
Travel by this picturesque route to Europe!
Full particulars from: —
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., LTD.
247 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
and Les, grinning even more than usual,
had to wait minutes in his Sydney Sta-
dium corner before the Rumanian
could collect his scattered senses and
place his shivering legs sufficiently under
control to move out of his dressing-
room. When he climbed through the
ropes, he brought with him a face hag-
gard and bloodless, knees which almost
refused their office and a heart that
could, as it were, be heard yelling to him
to bolt.
At the cry of “Box on,” Costica
tumbled against Darcy, pinning his arms
down and hanging on for dear life.
Pulled off by the referee, he hung on
again, the crowd meanwhile nearly howl-
ing the roof off. And so it went on.
Towards the end of the second round,
Darcy got a hand free and landed on his
friend’s midriff. Costica thankfully col-
lapsed—and the bell stopped the count.
The Rumanian went to recumbency
again in the third session, and again had
the horrible luck not to beat the bell.
All this time he had been too scared to
put up his hands properly. In the
fourth, he absent-mindedly got up at nine
seconds and, taking a short jolt on the
jaw, tumbled over again. Then the Law,
out of pity apparently, held up its hand,
and the exhibition was over.
"Out in Two."
Darcy v. Buck Crouse at Sydney on
June 4, 1916, was another farce. Crouse,
a German-American (Kraus really), made
no fight of it. In the first round he
lurched on to Darcy and held down the
hostile gloves; and after being knocked
off his feet and receiving several jolts
to the side of the. head he took a rest.
In the second round he lasted 20 seconds.
Darcy, it was said afterwards, had
agreed to let Crouse go 10 rounds. Seeing
a chance to double-cross him, Crouse put
all his weight behind a right to the jaw. It
was hard enough to settle most middle-
weights ; but Darcy just shook his head,
and replied with a left flush on the
throat. Then he sent Buck down for
eight seconds with a right to the jaw.
Crouse rose unsteadily, was dropped
with a swing on the point and carried to
his corner for resuscitation.
Pupil Beats Master.
Having for the time being run out of
American opponents, Darcy signed up
for a couple of engagements with Dave
Smith—one at Sydney on June 24, 1916,
and the other at Brisbane on August 16.
They ended as everyone anticipated:
David lasted 12 rounds in his own city
and 11 rounds in the northern capital.
The spirit in which they were waged
was evidenced when Les brought blood
from his former coach’s nose early in
their Sydney scrap. The grin momen-
tarily vanished from his cheerful coun-
tenance. “Sorry, Dave,” he said. “Don’t
apologise, lad,” David replied with equal
thoughtfulness ; “go your hardest.”
The Conquest of Chip.
On his record, George Chip, of Scran-
ton, Pa., was one of the foremost middle-
weights in the world. He boasted a long
schedule of battles with front-rank
boxers, and had been outed only once—•
by A 1 McCoy, who, with a fluke hit in
the first round of a scrap at Brooklyn,
put Chip to sleep and won the middle-
weight championship; also the cheese
championship, American reporters wrote.
About 12,000 people went to the Syd-
ney Stadium on the night of September
30, 1916, to see Chip argue the point
with Darcy. What they actually saw was
Darcy handing out convincing reasons
why George should feel sorry for him-
self.
Darcy made George look as cheap as
a beginner. George’s reputation was that
of a man with a devastating punch, but
in opposition to a fast hitter he seemed
as slow as an ancient elephant.
It was a disillusioned and weary Chip
that stepped along to his corner at the
end of the second round. He fought
bravely and took what was coming to
him without flinching, but was hopelessly
outclassed ; and he knew it. Darcy never
fought better. Time after time he. jambed
a hard-driven left into Chip’s face, and
then, when the stricken George grabbed
the offending glove, he brought the right
over to the jaw.
In the fifth collision, Darcy shook
Chip to the heels. The quick sagging
of the knees and the upturned eyes
showed how close he was to slumber;
but he had enough wit left to fail
into a hug. It was then merely a ques-
tion of how long Darcy, who was box-
ing well within himself, would let him go.
The ninth had scarcely started when
the youngster straightened Chip with a
heavy left. Chip backed away, came
again and led, and Darcy, stepping side-
ways and slightly forward, swept his
right across to the chin. A short, swift
hit; but Chip went down with outspread
arms as if struck by a rifle bullet. It
took a long time to bring him round.
Darcy hadn’t a mark on him.
End of the Chapter.
That was Darcy’s last fight. All that
year people who had no use for boxing
had been asking why he didn’t go to the
war. His case was no worse than those
of a score of other boxers—of less note
but of maturer years, and perhaps fewer
responsibilities—and of hundreds of
footballers. Darcy at least had the ex-
cuse that he was the eldest son in a
family whose, circumstances —very poor
when he started out as a boxer—he was
making comparatively comfortable, and
that he was not of an age to enlist with-
out parental sanction, which was refused.
Other bruisers had gone to the U.S.A.
quite openly. When conscription was
threatened, Darcy was induced to go sur-
reptitiously. With a “manager,” O’Sul-
livan, he was smuggled aboard an Ameri-
can tramp, the Hattie Luckenbach, at
Stockton (N.S.W.), and set out on a
roundabout voyage to New York, trans-
ferring to an oil boat in a South Ameri-
can port. When the Hattie Luckenbach
put out to sea it wanted two days to his
twenty-first birthday.
JIMMY CLABBY.
The rest of the
story is suffici-
ently well known.
Darcy reached
New York and
for a week or two
was treated like a
conquering hero ;
but the tem-
per of his
hosts soon
changed. The
U.S.A. was
about to go
into the war.
When it did
there was no
more cordial-
ity for poor
Darcy. News-
papers attacked
him; the Gov-
ernor of New
York vetoed a
fight in which he
was to have en-
gaged, and a
music-hall tour
which had been
arranged for him
ended suddenly.
He travelled from
State to State,
hoping to find a
Governor who
would let him
box. He had
parted company
with O’Sullivan,
his money was giving out and he was a
prey to intense worry.
In his wanderings Darcy reached the
Mississippi and made warm-hearted
American friends at the old cotton town
of Memphis, Tennessee. His tonsils had
given him trouble, in Australia ; at Mem-
phis his throat became so septic that an
immediate operation was ordered. An
infected tooth complicated the case, as
it did in that of the first Roosevelt, and
a grave condition developed. At Mem-
phis on May 24, 1917, Les Darcy died.
While still able to go about he had
applied for U.S.A. naturalisation papers
and given in his name as an Air Force
recruit.
Darcy’s body was Brought back to
Australia, and buried in Maitland ceme-
tery. The fierce passions of 1916-17 are
now only a memory. Of Darcy the man
it is enough to say that he was a devoted
son and a clean-living, sunny-natured,
big-hearted Australian who died young,
alone and unhappy in a far country.
Of his greatness as a boxer there can
be no two opinions. After Darcy
licked him in Melbourne, Billy Murray
said that the Maitland lad was far and
away the best middleweight he had met;
he was so strong and so tremendous a
puncher when he let a punch go with all
his force that Murray couldn’t see any
heavyweight beating him.
Kearns, who was Jack Dempsey’s
manager, has placed it on record that
he had seen only two great fighters in
his time, Dempsey and Darcy, and he
could never decide which of them would
have won had they been destined to meet.
Very high praise, for Darcy was only
20 and a middleweight when Kearns was
in Australia, and Dempsey, when Kearns
managed him, was a 13-stoner, years
older than the Australian who died at
21, and wise in the ways of the ring.


“El V.”: The ancient grazier stood in
Pitt-street gazing at Sydney’s latest
is umpteen storeys high; its windows
cover about 17 acres and the bottom sec-
tion of the front is of glass bricks. Slowly
the old man took in its beauties while we
waited for his burst of admiration.
Finally he summed up: “Make a fine
place to grow hothouse tomatoes in,”
he said. (Pause.) “I suppose with all
that glass down below there’d be too
much light fer mushrooms on the ground
floor.”
* * 4 *
“Coot”: I possess a copy of Henry
Parkes’s first book of verse, Murmurs of
the Stream, published in 1857. The title-
page describes the author as “late mem-
ber of the Legislative Assembly for the
City of Sydney,” and the verses, “con-
taining records of filing scattered over
15 years,” are “dedicated to the 3057
electors of Sydney who returned the
author to the Legislative Assembly,
March 13, 1856.” These early rhymes
may be of little poetic merit, but they
display the writer’s intense love for Aus-
tralia and his belief in its future. Also,
the trenchant footnotes to several poems
throw an interesting light on the political
animosities which characterised early
N.S.W. Parliaments.
“Somnus”: The defence by “Questo”
(B. 26/5/’37) of Henry Parkes’s attempts
at poesy ignores the fact that The Golden
Treasury of Australian Verse contains
few scraps of poetry along with an im-
moderate lot of hopelessly moderate
verse. Parkes’s “The Australian Flag,”
included in the “School Reader” spon-
sored by the Queensland Education De-
partment, merely represents the method
universally adopted by Governments to
foster patriotism. Parkes may have had
some merit as a versifier, but, if he was a
poet, then some of The Bulletin’s con-
tributors should be in the running for
the Laureateship.
* * * *
“R.T.D.”: There’s a headstone near
Kapunda (S.A.), probably the oldest in
the southern State, which was erected
by public subscription in 1840 over the
grave of a stockman called “Scotty,” real
name unknown. Tradition has it that
“Scotty” eloped with the wife of an inn-
keeper, fell off his horse before he had
gone 100 yards and was trampled to
death. Seeing that there wasn’t a pub
within 20 miles, this doesn’t ring quite
true. A more credible version is that
the stockman was speared by blacks when
he was far from help.
* * * *
“Sixenate”: Women are certainly in-
vading every part of the sterner sex’s
domain; for the first time in N.S.W.
history one was presented at court on
an application that she should be de-
clared an habitual criminal. She had 36
convictions since 1911, when she would
have been 13 if her admitted age of 39
was correct; but the Kathleen Mavour-
neen was not applied this time, though
the delinquent was told plainly that she
will get it if she doesn’t amend her ways
at the conclusion of her present 12-
months term.
* * * *
“J. C. Calnoun”: “Oxmead” is wrong
in saying that William the Conqueror
was crowned by the Archbishop of
York because Archbishop Stigand
(not Sigard) refused the job (B.
26/5/’37). S. would probably have been
glad of the chance; he was in-
eligible because he had been suspended
from his episcopal functions by Pope
Alexander 11., having been intruded into
the see in place of another ecclesiastic,
Robert of Guinieges. Harold, too, was
crowned by Aldred of York, though the
Normans made a mistake about this on
the Bayeux tapestry. Elizabeth was
crowned by the Bishop of Carlisle. Pole
of Canterbury being dead, and York un-
willing to officiate on account of the
Queen’s religious tendencies. Also, there
was no Bishop of Gloucester in Henry
lll.’s time. The see was created by
Henry VIII.
* * * *
“Hamfat”: Paderewski memories (B.
26/5/’37)? My own most vivid one
about the long-haired pianist was his
declaration that of all the towns in Aus-
tralia he liked Wangaratta best. He
gave, as a reason for his preference, with
a smile suggesting that he was not alto-
gether devoid of humor, that it was the
only town in the Commonwealth in
which some small boy had not advised
him to get his hair cut!
* * * *
“F.J.”: No subject is so riddled with
contradiction as that of nutrition values
of different foods. No two authorities
seem to agree about even the food values
of common things—bread or milk, for
example. “Kwakprak” (B. 26/5 / ’37)
asks us to believe that a stiff whisky is
equal in food value to a couple of hard-
boiled eggs. If he will put two men on a
desert island with just enough water to
prevent death by thirst, and with no
food whatever, and if he will every two
days feed one man on a stiff whisky and
the other on a couple of hard-boiled eggs,
I’ll bet him a brand-new clinical ther-
mometer that the man who put down
the stiff whisky will be dead of starva-
tion weeks before the egg-eating one.
* * # *
“Chancery Lane”: The Fitzroy (Vic.)
registrar of marriages has been socked
£1 for marrying three couples after 4 p.m.
He stated that the usual arrangements
had been made to tie the knots before
that 1 hour, but, although the couples were
punctual, he had been compelled to
keep them waiting. He pleaded “guilty
with moral justification,” stressing his
reluctance to send them away in the cir-
cumstances. The P.M. was sympathetic,
but pointed out that he must uphold the
law. The Marriage Act (1928) prohibits
the celebration of marriages at a registry
office except between 8 a.m. and 4 p.m.
* * * *
“0.R.”: Neville Chamberlain, Britain’s
newest Prime Minister, is, to the best of
my knowledge, Rugby School’s first con-
tribution to the holders of that exalted
office. Up to the last century the public
schools had a monopoly of it. Baldwin,
of course, was a product of Harrow ;
years ago, when somebody wondered
why he should have sent his sons to
Eton, a humorist suggested (in the House
of Commons) that his object was obvi-
ously to swell the traffic on the Great
Western Railway, of which he was a
director. Of Ramsay MacDonald the
reference books merely record that he
was “at a board school.” Bonar Law
finished his education, begun in Canada,
at the Glasgow High School. Lloyd
George is scheduled as having been
taught at Llanystymdwy —a hard name
to pronounce. Asquith was at the City
of London School. Campbell-Banner-
man finished up at Glasgow University-
Before that, four Etonians won to the
blue riband of British politics in succes-
sion—Gladstone, Salisbury, Rosebery and
Balfour.
* * * *
“D.G.J.”: “Suburbia” asks where is
the London statue of Captain Cook
which had to be boarded to the knees as
a protection against Coronation crowds
(B. 19/5/’37). Unless the authorities
have made a change since I was m
London, and this is most unlikely, the
statue is situated on the left-hand side
soon after passing through the Admiralty
Arch from Trafalgar Square. It is about
life-size, with trunk and legs complete,
and mounted on a pedestal of stone sft.
or 6ft. high. These details are from a
photograph which I took myself.
* * * *
“Platman”: These aeroplane prospect-
ing dashes begin to get on my nerves.
Herbert Gepp spent two days in Croydon
(Q.), where two days wouldn’t have given
him time enough to count the old mul-
lock heaps, let alone make a detailed in-
spection. I note he reports the occur-
rence of iron ore about Portland Roads,
which I doubt. There have been many
good prospectors through that country
since Bill Baird opened the Batavia
nearly 40 years ago. I was on the Pascoe
wolfram field 25 years back, and it was
opened 10 years before that. This geo-
physic stunt appears to confine itself
mostly to known fields ; places discovered
by the ordinary prospector donkeys’
“Why are you so sure you Wont be able to sleep if locked in to-night?
“Well, I've had such a good nap this afternoon .”
years ago. If the Federal Government
has so much money to spare let it pro-
vide small testing plants to get at the
value of the stone raised in remote places.
I agree with the editor of the “N.Q.
Register,” who probably has a better
knowledge of mining history in Queens-
land than the whole caboodle of Federal
Government spenders, that the next gold
discoveries will be made “by an old chap
who wears corks in his hat and is ac-
companied by a bandy-legged dog.”
* * * *
“Miro”: Maoriland motorists, who
have the usual horror of colliding with
road-crossing youngsters, are advocating
that children who may have to cross main
thoroughfares when traffic is brisk should
not be clad in dark or drab colors. The
first suggestion to this effect came from
a driver who was travelling along a road
bordered with tall bracken when out of
the general brownness stepped a small
girl, clad in the exact color of her sur-
roundings, and narrowly escaped instant
death. Had the kid been clad in white
or any light color she could have been
picked out with the eye good drivers
always reserve for that most incalculable
of road dangers, the. child. As motorists
agree that light silk-stockinged legs are
visible at a good distance the idea seems
a commendable one.
* * * *
“Furan”: Having been to many mili-
tary reviews and seen many salutes from
officers of high rank, I give full marks
to the present N.S.W. Governor as one
of the very few men who follow drill-
book rules, bringing ihe right hand in a
circular motion to the peak of the cap
or rim of the hat, just in front of the right
eye, etc. I watched him at the Syd-
ney Town Hall on the day the per-
manent forces marched through the
streets, and his ease and dignity when
acknowledging the “Eyes right” impressed
me. In the Melbourne papers I saw the
review of the Victorian troops. The
State Governor was shown saluting in the
Aussie fashion straight up and down,
and a little to the right of the right eye.
His A.D.C. was giving a perfect “sar-
major” salute.
* •!: * *
“S.T.S.”: Port Adelaide (Inner Har-
bor) has had the odd experience of two
ships of the same name, Westralia, being
berthed there together. One was of the
Huddart Parker line, eastward-bound;
the other a Danish ship, going to
Europe.
;j: #
“Wog”: Good to hear that the N. S.
Wales Government hopes to extend its
present immunisation campaign against
diphtheria to other diseases, such as
typhoid. It would be a great gain to
the community if inoculation against
diseases of the kind could be made com-
pulsory, as it is in the Imperial Army.
At Bloemfontein typhoid for a time de-
mobilised Lord Roberts’s army ; in the
Great War conditions on the fly-smitten
front and among the insanitary peoples
encountered back of the lines were ideal
for typhoid, but cases could be counted
on the fingers of one hand. Inoculation
was solely responsible for the immunity,
as it was for the rarity of cholera among
the Australian Light Horse, though tt
was constantly their lot to occupy ground
where cholera-stricken Turkish tioops
had encamped.
“Shep”: That story of a stock of cham-
pagne as a stretcher case (B. 26/5/ 37)
brings memories of a hectic night at
Meteren. The wares of a Bailleul wine-
merchant had been dumped in an old
shed and lay untouched for some time
because it was unhealthy to roam around
there in daylight. They were unearthed
one night, and our mouths watered at the
sight of dozens of cases of wine piled
from floor to ceiling. The shed was
busier that night than a ration dump.
Champagne was served along the front
line, and Digger and French artillery
fraternised over it. Our share was two
unopened cases, and as we bore these
along the road on a stretcher to our post
we had to pass by infantry going in.
There wasn’t a Digger in the. whole
A.I.F. whose paunch could reach as high
from the stretcher as those cases under
the blanket, but the only suspicious soul
was an officer bringing up the infantry s
rear. “What have you got there?” he
bellowed. We didn’t stop, and from ib®
darkness called back “Medical comforts,
sighing contentedly when we heard
“Carry on!” Only a few days before
Jacks had deliberately smashed hundreds
of bottles of the output of French vine-
yards in Meteren gutters.
PORTRAIT OF A PORTRAITIST.
Behold him as he strokes his flowing hair
And gazes into space with pensive air !
In front of him a canvas, yet untouened.
While in his fist a brush is tightly clutched.
Around what might be loosely termed his brain,
As numerous as bubbles in champagne,
Half-baked ideas and notions whirl and surge,
All in response to his creative urge.
At last he slaps his dome with wild elation:
A portrait, yes, he’ll do’t! An inspiration!
A thing of sheerest beauty he will limn.
His model? Pish! What’s life to do with him?
Ali right, perhaps (and here he grabs a tube),
For some old unimaginative boob
Like Rembrandt,, who’d have failed to find a
charm . »
In elephantine leg or six-foot arm.
Those funny old-time Jackies of the craft,
With all their “faithful” portraits— they were
And d slow! Why, they’d have hardly earned a
bean . ,
These days . . . Swift flows a triangle of green—
Her hair—and now a bright vermilion nose,
Plum-colored eyes and some distorted toes;
A few swift, saffron slashes, four blue dots,
A blood-red neck (detached), some ochreous
blots,
And there! it’s done. A work of art supreme,
A vorticist-cum-post-surrealist’s dream.
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


ost
Rely on your Dentist
Your dentist wants to prevent pain,
not to cause it. He won’t hurt you, if
you go visit him often enough. Have
him examine your teeth and gums at
least twice a year to keep them healthy.
He may prevent serious illness often
caused by mouth infections.
DHEUMATISM, neuritis and other
ailments frequently follow Pyorrhea,
the dread disease of the gums. Yet care-
lessness makes Pyorrhea all too prevalent.
Four out of live suffer from it after forty,
and many younger, according to your
dentist’s own figures.
To be among the fortunate few who
escape Pyorrhea, begin at once using
Forhan’s for the Gums. If used regularly
and in time, Forhan’s prevents or checks
Pyorrhea and safeguards your health.
It contains Forhan’s Pyorrhea Astrin-
gent (developed by R. J. Forhan,
D.D.S., specialist in mouth diseases for
26 years) which is used by dentists in
the treatment of Pyorrhea. 'lt is a
pleasant, cleansing dentifrice that the
entire family likes.
To-day is none too soon to start brush-
ing your teeth with Forhan’s. Buy a
tube right away and don’t give Pyorrhea
a chance. You can make no wiser
investment in the health of your mouth
and the safety of your teeth.
Price 2/-; extra-large tube 3/-.
OT]
3.
v
Ct>
o
SSI
GE
30
ill
SB3
Australasian Agents—The Sheldon Drug Co. Pty., Ltd., Sydney.
Forhan’s
for the gums
MORE THAN A TOOTHPASTE IT PREVENTS PYORRHEA
' . ■ • > : . •'T-v.a > V : ..... •. ’ V ' ' J
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK'S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
h
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- (, plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
<p
fi
0?
$
0
V
c
0
*V
s3 v
X
e
*P>
($>
S®
' JV
t* e
*P
6\
Z#
.,(V>'
9\
o«V^
»*9 a
<e A
\S S
v V vS
/
# S>
V
e"'o$ C V c
#•’
L Y^


\
s
V
V
O
Jr
Q
m m
i M
%
I
'• ?■*
'. ?w
a 1
, r
It
$
m
tmm,
. r - :
v:' £ .
fea
J. ‘ • • !
J8
._.***-. w*** !
* • J
'x ■'
;■
ii
;, -;•
MM
■ a v
;i i
*r'A c®*t
...."•
“Well, now, that’s just what
I was thinking, myself.”
AROMATIC SCHIEDAM
Iff
X.M:
as for Men.
Wolfe’s Schnapps
is obtainable
everywhere in
Quarter, Half
and Large size
bottles.
