

Created an all tin
SALES RECORD
e
FOR
tMTrg
au a*- |TY
With the demand for quality more insistent than ever . . . with competition the keenest in
years, Atlantic Products, in 1936, eclipsed all sales records! What more positive proof
could you have of the value of these products to you?
As modern higher powered cars and advancing industrial machinery demand improved quality
. . . more staying power from fuels and lubricants, private motorists and industrialists alike
are turning to Atlantic. Month after month ... in both city and country . . . the demand for
Atlantic products goes steadily up and up!
With 1937 still young, why not start now to enjoy the full benefits of Atlantic products
yourself? They cost no more!
ATLANTIC ETHYL, ATLANTIC PETROL, ATLANTIC MOTOR
OIL, AND OVER 300 OTHER QUALITY PRODUCTS.
ATLANTIC UNION OIL CO. LTD.
1N5.1.48.37.
The Bulletin
“The Rules of War 99
Vol. 58—No. 2987.
Wednesday, May 12, 1937.
Price 6d«
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper


DYMOCK’S LIBRARY CATALOGUE
with terms and particulars, will be sent
post free to any address on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
“The Block,”
424-426 George Street, Sydney,
BJu I
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write tor Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name ..
My Address
S.B. 137
S. H. Prior Memorial Prize
Third Competition, Closing June 6, 1937.
Full particulars of this annual literary award will be published
here from time to time, or may be had on application to The
Bulletin, 252 George-street, Sydney.
For this current competition only novels are eligible, and the
Prize will be awarded to that which is considered the most
outstanding contribution to Australian literature.
The trustees will publish the successful work in book form,
and in serial form any they may deem worthy. If published as a
serial the winner will be paid for at serial rates in addition to the
prize-money. Any others used as serials will also be paid for at
serial rates.
Any bona fide Australian resident or any person born in
Australia, New Zealand or British South Pacific islands will be
eligible to enter for the competition works which must be the
original work of the entrants, and previously unpublished, either
wholly or in part, in book or serial form. Manuscripts must be
submitted under a nom de plume, and the true name and address
of the author must accompany each entry in a sealed envelope,
which will not be opened until the judges have made their decision.
The trustees reserve the right to withhold the Prize if no work
submitted is, in the opinion of the judges, worthy of an award
If this should occur in any year, the amount of the Prize will be
added to the following year’s Prize.
Tje Red Page
A GALLANT IRISH POET.
When in his recent Oxford Book of Modern
Verse Yeats gives pride of number to the Irishman
Oliver St. John Gogarty, Senator, athlete, airman,
specialist, wit and poet (Yeats includes 17 of his
lyrics, more than he reprints of any other poet), and
dubs him “one of the greatest lyric poets of our
age,” he affixes the seal of genius to what some of
us have long admired. Gogarty the man Yeats puts
among Irishmen of action, among the bucks, “swash-
bucklers, horsemen, swift, indifferent men” ; the verse
he finds “gay, stoical, heroic song.”
Gay is the word that leaps to the lips spon-
taneously when one thinks of Gogarty’s poetry. To
him life is a joyous carnival. He sings the flash of
bush and tree into green and yellow in the spring ;
spring is his season, sunshine his light, youth his time.
All that is athletic and full of nature’s unquench-
able energy attracts him: the wild goose breasting
the north wind, alone between the mountains and the
stars in his high flight; the landward-swept crab-tree,
“unbreakable wrestler” in the amphitheatre of sun,
sea, earth and wind. He sings the joy of holding a
car down on the long road, of the delight of rapid
motion through fresh air. He urges his friend and
fellow-townsman Yeats to build a fountain with the
proceeds of the Nobel Prize, to spill con abbandone
his laurel gold “in water and stone.” He has a Ben
Jonsonian love of good food, good company, good
talk. Poetry is for him the spontaneous overflow of
his joy of life into verse, “a rhythmical spell to en-
large the spirit,” to quote one of his definitions of the
indefinable.
I do not know where else in modern poetry you
will find this rare combination of wit and beauty,
satire and song, realism and high adventure, over-
flowing fancy and precision of form. Living in the
heart of Dublin, Gogarty goes out into his garden
in the early spring, the same garden in which George
Moore walked and composed his fine comment on
Irish life. Hail and Farewell. Overnight the plum-
tree has broken into blossom:
In morning light thy damson showed
Its airy branches oversnowed
On all their quickening fronds,
That tingled where the early sun
Was flowing soft as silence on
Palm-trees by coral ponds.
Here is the radiant Greek attitude towards nature,
with the lethargy of tropics beautifully rhythmed.
No one would think of reciting the Sitwells round
a bushman’s fire, despite the occasional appropriate-
ness of their name; but verse, for all its
frequent flashes of intellectuality, would be liked by
men who worked in the open with their hands. They
have met the like of the Woman of Beare, that
symbol of ancient Ireland regretting the days of
Oisin and Oscar, and they could share the remi-
niscent joy which Gogarty has summed up in the
ejaculatory “O Boys! O Boys!” There are even
lines in him at which they would roar with hearty
laughter.
Gogarty’s verse makes you think of vigorous
masculine things. I suppose Yeats is right when he
singles out for special praise Gogarty’s portraits of
maidenhood.
Tall, on a bare landscape,
Where earth and stone upthrusts—
Holding your exquisite frock
Against the morning gusts,
And light is on the half-rock.
That is seen with the artist’s eye and drawn with
anatomical spareness ; it evokes both an image and
a mood. It is a grave portrait, like the close-up of
the Doric profile on “A Coin from Syracuse.” But
the maidens in the Greek myths Gogarty has retold
are not grave, but arch and winsome. Leda becomes
as deliciously human as the girl in the nursery rhyme,
“Mother, May I Go Out to Swim?” of which the
choriambic dance of the opening octave holds a
subtle echo:
Though her mother told her
Not to go a-bathing,
Leda loved the river
And she could not keep away;
Wading in its freshness
When the moon was heavy;
Walking by the water
At the close of day.
So the Crete goddess Europa becomes “a lovely tom-
boy with scratches on her shins.” It is hard to say
what magic gives these maidens their freshness, their
Greek vase-like luminosity and volatility.
Now that most of our poets have become Narcis-
sists in love with their own image, and, not content
with that, have taken the universe into their own
minds too that they may love only what is they, it
is refreshing to read a poet who leaves the universe
where it belongs—outside himself—for him and others
to enjoy. Witty, blithe and debonair are the occa-
sional verses in which Gogarty celebrates the feasts
given by that great Irish householder the Rt. Hon.
Lorcan Galeran, for whom his table is a “plain of
Troy,” or addresses his portrait by Augustus John,
“back from the world behind his brow, Back from
the boulevards of his brain.” Much is seen with the
painter’s eye—“blue as at -he whiteness wheie a
cloud begins,” or,
Do you see that wave there,
Where the crescent curves lift,
Transilluminating
For a second into green
Miles of crystal daylight
Then, the hissing snowdrift:
Light so water-tangled
That its sightless self is seen?
Characteristic is Gogarty’s attempt in those lines
to give sight to what cannot be seen, permanence of
form to what is transient ; to body forth all that is
delicate and fleeting in nature —shadows and lights,
and the feel in the air of snow or an imminent moon.
Although he is sparing of adjectives, Gogarty is
master of the epithet which sends its meaning to the
mind sharply and instantaneously as the clang of a
bell. Above' all the poets of his time he takes poetry
as he takes life, naturally ; his sensibility is excited
only by what lies solid in the centre of men’s lives.
When Gogarty was a student at Trinity College,
Dublin, more than 30 years ago, he won the Vice-
Chancellor’s Prize for Poetry. Thinking of the great
Greek comedian Aristophanes, he concluded his prize
poem with these two lines:
Like him who shook the broad Athenian stages,
And sent Old Wisdom laughing down the world.
Aristophanes’s world was the richer for his under-
standing ; our world needs Gogarty’s “lighter lyric
line,” vocal, as all good verse is, with the accents of
the human voice. He has eschewed the Celtic Twi-
light, into which most of the Irish poets of his genera-
tion followed Yeats, for sunlight bright on meadow
and sea; the Irish peasant for “tall, unpopular men
and slim, slim, proud women,” custodians of the
courtly, ceremonious, aristocratic life against which he
plays his variations. He can bring wit and audacity
to poetry without “frightening away the beauty.”
GASTON C. RENARD.
The Albanian Scene.
By the secret Pact of London in 1915, Byron’s
“rugged nurse of savage men,” Albania, was to be
subdivided between Greece, Serbia and Montenegro,
while Italy was to have the Bay of Valona and its
hinterland as part of its price for entering the war
on the Entente side. Two years later Italy became
alarmed when the formation of Yugoslavia was de-
cided upon, and promptly proclaimed Albanian inde-
pendence under its protection, with the object of estab-
lishing a buffer State between its traditional enemies
on t'he east and the Adriatic. But Albanian independence
wanted no protection. The. “savage men,” biding
their time and disregarding their own complaisant
Government, swooped down on the exhausted Italians
at Valona and gave them such a torrid time that they
were glad to agree to withdraw their fever-stricken
forces in 1920, content to retain the barren island of
Saseno, which has since become Italy’s Gibraltar,
giving control of the Adriatic Sea;
Since then Italy has pursued a policy of unaggres-
sive “influence,” the latest evidence of this being the
reported engagement of the Moslem King Zog to an
Italian countess —a proposal that is not likely to be
pleasing either to Yugoslavia or to Zog’s non-Moslem
subjects, who comprise at least half his kingdom.
Albania, which has a population of a million,
is the least-known country of Europe. Not a little
is this due to tourists’ fear of bandits, though in the
effort to remove this reproach and to ensure respect
for the law of a central Government most of the
Albanians have been forced to surrender their arms;
not a little is due to the wretched communications
(the country is entirely without a railway, and the
mountainous roads can accommodate nothing wider
than a packhorse); mainly it is due to the absence
of native literature (there are few Albanians over 30
years old who can read or write, thanks to the Turks,
who did not believe in educating their subjects).
Of recent years the only book published in
English which gave any adequate description of the
country and its people was J. Swire’s Albania: The
Rise of a Kingdom, which was almost encyclopaedic
in its scope. Swire’s new book, King Zog’s Albania
(Robert Hale), intended less for the special student
than the general reader, portrays an interesting and
complete picture of the Albanian people and land-
scape. His method is to take the reader with him on
extensive tours north and south of the central capital.
Tirana, and this he has done thoroughly, omitting
no place of importance and including chapters on
the national hero, George Scanderbeg, who welded
the independent tribes into a nation 500 years ago,
the notorious Ali Pasha, King * Zog and the King s
illiterate favorite Krosi, “Albania’s Black Spot”—the
mystery of Tirana.
Zog, or Zogu, comes of a line of hereditary chief -
tains who ruled their district like the mediaeval English
barons. At the age of 17 he was leading his tribes
against the invading Serbs and Montenegrins, and
after the Great War alternately • intrigued with or
fought the Yugoslavs and the Italians. He was pro-
claimed king in 1928, but in spite of his proven
courage he has never been seen anywhere in his own
country except in his capital and its seaporE-the old
law of the blood vengeance still operates. Even when
he went to Vienna in 1931 he narrowly escaped
assassination, his A.D.C. being killed while following
him into his car. ' _ A
Though nominally a Moslem, his faith is
lightly held. He remains unmarried. He has said,
“What have I to offer a foreign princess,
living as I do?” He was once betrothed to
a daughter of a bey, but when he came to the
throne he broke it off, for he dared not so ally him-
self with the landowning class or rouse the jealousy
of other beys. “When he was in Vienna the press
discovered he had a mistress, a well-born Austrian
girl who had been his friend for many years,” but
the Austrian authorities reprimanded the press for
mentioning it as they were “insulting the institutions
of a friendly State.” Now the Italians are endeavor-
ing to provide him with a wife. He is 42.
The book is well illustrated, and contains an
excellent map which enables the text to be followed
with interest.
Field and Stream.
Bush Rambles, by A. G. Hamilton (Angus and
Robertson ; 65.), is a delightful series of essays by
one of the oldest of Australian naturalists. Hamilton
does not rhapsodise, but infuses his considerable
knowledge with an abundant enthusiasm, and his
discourse is that of the friendly field observer on
rambles through the bush, during which he shows you
everything—tree, bird and bevt.
Dispensing with scientific jargon, he can even
carry the simplicity of his style too far, as when he
uses the common misnomer of “locust” for cicada ;
and it would have been an advantage to have included
an index with the scientific appellations of the birds
and animals referred to, which are fixed, coupled with
their common names, which are variable. For
example, he describes a flock of brownish birds,
gregarious and garrulous, with glossy black tails, each
feather tipped with white, which build a large, oval
nest of thin twigs, the opening of which is well con-
cealed. This bird’s scientific name is Pomatostomus
temporalis, which is awful enough, but on seeking a
common name for it he found 30, and gives a dozen
of them—Happy Jacks, Gah-goos, Dogbirds, Catbirds,
Hopping Joes, Hopping Janies, Larrikins, London
Irish, Old Women, Twelve Apostles and Happy Fami-
lies, Some of these names are also applied to two
other birds which congregate in groups —the black
magpie or chough or jay, which is a large black bird
with a bright red eye, a long curved beak and a large
white spot on each wing, seen only when the bird
is flying, and another, smaller bird, ashy-grey in color
with a short conical beak. Both of these build mud
nests.
Hamilton gives a treatment for a “bungy-eye,”
common enough in the bush when flies are bad a
weak solution of zinc sulphate, two grains to an ounce
of water. He disposes of the old bush argument that
a snake will not die till sundown; he proved it by
pouring a kettle of boiling water over one. And he
shows that a snake cannot commit suicide by biting
itself, for its poison is not deadly to itself. The
fragrant bark of the sassafras-tree was made into tea
by the early settlers as a tonic, and so was the “false
sarsaparilla” until patent medicines drove the old
herbal remedies out of use, and the dried tubers of
certain ground orchids were made into a drink called
saloop, in place of tea, as late as 1865.
The book is as packed with observation as a
page of Aboriginalities.
Mutinies.
R. L. Hadfield’s Mutiny at Sea (Geoffrey Bles;
Bs. 6d.) is worthy of commendation for one good
reason —the writer has not found it necessary to
include the Mutiny of the Bounty, but has found
in the stories of 13 other mutinies material exciting
enough for an entertaining book, with a chapter
on the causes of them which makes one glad that
(Continued on page 8.)


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”—Business Integrity. “THE SENIOR STORE ”
ANTHONY HORDERNS'
“Keep the Top Clear for Action”
Luxe Desk, with matched figured Walnut veneer top and
end panels and drawer front. There are two cupboards, with matched
doors, behind the desk. Feet are encased in cast brass shoes, chromium-
plated. Automatic locking device on all drawers. Rounded corners.
Chromium-plated handles are bolted through each of the eight
large drawers. Two slides. Size sft. by 3ft
At Anthony Horderns’ £l6/5/-
i. * !
E2A.—Single Pedestal Desk, with matched figured Walnut
veneer top and drawer front. Rounded corners. Four
large drawers, with automatic locking device. One slide.
Size, 42in. by 30in. At Anthony Horderns’, £6/19/6
Without Slide, £6/12/6.
xm \
£6. —Table, with top measuring 36in. by 20in.
Matched figured Walnut veneer top. Single
centre drawer, with lock and chromium-plated
handle. At Anthony Horderns’ . . £4/7/6
1
m
• -
E 3 measuring sft. by 3ft., with matched figured Walnut
veneer top and drawer fronts. The six drawers have chromium-
plated handles. The two top drawers only have locks.
At Anthony Horderns’ £7/19/6
E 4 with top measuring 4ft. 6in. by 2ft. 6in. Four
drawers, with locks on the top two only. Top and drawer
fronts in matched figured Walnut veneer. Chromium-plated
handles. At Anthony Horderns’ £6/17/6
With two locked drawers only, £5/12/6.
If you should spend 30 minutes each day for a year looking for misplaced papers you would waste
nearly 20 eight-hour days. The modern desk helps to eliminate waste of time and loss of motion,
because it is designed and built to meet the speed of modern business. “A rightful place for every-
thing that has a right to be in the desk, is the rule. The desk is the business work-bench, and every
inch of space should be given to just those things that are needed in the day’s work. In other words,
give your desk system a chance by assisting it with a modern desk. Here are desks designed for various
kinds of work, and each is scientifically planned to meet the purpose for which it is intended . . . the
quick despatch of incoming work, the handling of routine matters, the care of unfinished work and the
safety of matters pending ... in short, to facilitate the day’s work in the most efficient manner.
EIA. —Peaestal Desk, with matched figured Walnut
veneer top and drawer fronts. Eight large drawers and
two slides. Automatic locking device on all drawers.
Rounded veneer corners. Chromium-plated handles are
bolted through each drawer. Size sft by 3ft.
At Anthony Horderns’ £lO/17/6
Without Slides, £lO/10/-.
11
r r
'
rr
r r
rr
i r
rr
rr
rr
r r
r
r r
rr
r r
r r
r p
r r
rr
r r
rr
r r
f n
r r
r r
A
%
r -
-
\
V
sa
i\\
r
m
IS
-
HI
rz
’/a
A
%
I
CS
*ll
■af£i
ml
Office Furniture of To-Day and To-Morrow
This ever-changing world is readier to change than ever before. Personality and power, style and speed
. . . these are the things of to-day and to-morrow. Old-time office furniture, with its sombreness, is of
the past, as is yesterday. Here is office furniture essentially of to-day and anticipating the tendencies of
to-morrow. High-class Walnut Veneers on the desk tops and on drawer fronts, with the matched graining
found in costly furniture, give personality and style, engendering an atmosphere conducive to the right
mental conditions. And this personality office furniture is priced below “the furniture of yesterday.”
And plus all their smart style and gleaming appearance, these desks have spacious tops for unhampered
work, correct height for efficient sitting posture, plenty of room for leg freedom, correctly sized and deep
drawers for various desk requirements, and automatic locks for security. In this new and better-
value office furniture there are desks for every office need, and for the home study. They are a high-class
product of craftsmanship and factory organisation of a new order. Business leaders are invited to test
these desks, and other office furniture, in the light of their own experience. The strong, seasoned timbers,
the secure workmanship, and the exquisite finish add adequately to the sum total of the highest value office
furniture that it has ever been our pleasure to bring to the attention of business men.
9 Furniture —Third Floor. Free Delivery City and Suburbs only.


A Maori Tale
A PROPHET
WITHOUT
HONOR
By A. OMAN MEANY.
ILLUSTRATED BY SHELLEY
DEVILS, it seemed, had ensnared Parata. Fo,r
I almost the whole of his twenty-two years
f Parata the canoe-maker had been perfectly
attuned to the light-hearted mode of the tribe.
They took life as it came, knew no reason why their
state was what it was or why it should be otherwise.
And truly Parata had been one of them.
The change in him came awesomely, like dawn.
New colors crept into his mental horizon, and, as if
new-found, he arose, grim-lipped, and felled a giant
tree.
His subsequent industry disturbed the tribe.
“That young Parata —he grows in influence,”
mused Katoa as he reclined in the sunlit marae, the
communal ground of the tribe, and watched Parata
at work. A frown rested on his angular, keen features,
scored with the whorls of the tattoo-needles.
“What is he?” he went on. “A mere youth who
not yet has acquired the right to taboo on his canoe-
making. Yet he did not seek from us our blessing
on his work.”
He transferred his gaze to his companion,
Matangi. The latter crossed his stumpy legs and
patted his rotund stomach before replying. “He is
becoming dangerous, Katoa. For that he is a fool.”
The disapproval of Katoa and Matangi was not
to be disregarded lightly. They were the tohungas, the
shaman priests, of the Koropiko tribe. They recited
incantations for successful crops of kumaras and for
good catches of moki and pigeons. They blessed
canoes at launching and chieftains’ sons at birth.
They placed taboos on man, maid or mountain for
some good reason or for none at all, and raised them
again at a moment’s notice. They sang karakias to
appease evil spirits, wove dark spells and scraped the
bones of the dead. In consideration of their magical
services they were abundantly fed and profoundly
respected. They were wise and powerful men, and
they said Parata was a fool.
DARATA, twenty paces distant, heard nothing of
* their talk. He was engrossed in his task. Seated
in the wide circle of flax-and-sapling huts, he was
unconscious of his surroundings—unconscious of the
naked, noisy children scrambling near him ; of the
older children playing the native string-game with
their strips of flax; of the group of young women
singing and dancing a poi while a crowd of watching
braves shouted approval.
Above all other canoes this one was to be a work
of magnitude. It would be longer than many men.
Certain of Parata’s people had at first derided him,
for what use could there be in a vessel so colossal?
It was to be a war-canoe, Parata had told them,
long and broad and deep, a stronghold on the waters
for a warrior force.
“A war-canoe?”
Katoa, the tohunga, had stepped forward at this,
availing himself of the opportunity afforded by the
indecisiveness of Mamaku, the old chief of the tribe.
Katoa watched keenly nowadays for those opportuni-
ties. “A war-canoe? On whom would you wage
war? The tribe is happy. Here is abundance of
food, good fishing and hunting, and sunny days. We
have no warriors. Our spear-arms are quick only
for food. We live in contentment, yet would you
spur the tribe into warfare and bring to us bloodshed
and grief. The only canoes we need from you are
for fishing. Take heed, and have done with this evil
work! ”
Katoa looked round at the gathered Maoris, his
quick eyes scanning their faces. Led by the roaring
voice of the tohunga Matangi, there were many who
shouted approval. But in low undertone rose the
murmur of young men longing for vague deeds to
race their blood. Katoa, listening, knew it to be the
longing for war.
Parata opened his mouth to reply, then paused
as if struggling with the text of a lesson half-learned.
“Out of the mists of the past my fathers com-
mand me to this,” he said slowly, and turned again
to the kauri log.
As the Maoris broke up into chattering groups
Katoa stroked his chin. He did not want war —yet.
Least of all with other tribes. For many years the
Koropito had known no warfare. War killed sup-
porters in the tribe as well as antagonists. It raised
new leaders and imperilled long-prepared plans. Civil
war, if that became necessary, could, if carefully
fostered, realise for Katoa all his unpriestly ambitions
of leadership in good time. Discord of any kind, just
now, raised too many complications, too many
hazards.
IN the days that followed Parata became a centre of
* controversy. The tribe divided itself into camps
of opinion and waited until the canoe-maker should
raise his voice in battle-cry.
Parata worked nimbly now. To give greater
freedom to his strong brown arms he had cast aside
his feathered cape and sat clad only in a rattling
piu-piu stretching from waist to knees. So preoccupied
was he that moments elapsed before he became con-
scious of a shadow that lay across him. When he did
so he looked up quickly and met the eyes of her who
stood over him. It was Marama-ata: Moon Shadow.
Her simple garments of woven flax concealed none
of the grace of her tall, supple figure. Her long hair
was caught and tied with a diamond-patterned band,
a pare. Her smile contrasted white teeth with a skin
that found tone in the brown of an autumn leaf.
Parata rose and smiled as at a thought. “I find
myself in the shadow of Marama-ata. Yet the sun
is high in the sky and the moon has not risen from
her bed of clouds.”
Marama-ata pouted.
“Then may the moon rise quickly,” she answered.
“So long as the sun shines do you work like one
bewitched.”
“While the sun is high I work because my work
is wise,” said Parata quietly. “When the moon plays
with shadows, then do I come to you.’'
“Yet so soon as the sun is bright again do you
forget the moon. So soon does it lose its magic for
you! ”
“Marama-ata”
“My words are truth!” She stamped a bare
foot, and her great brown eyes flashed. “No longer
do you fish in the sparkling waters, nor roam the
bush, nor play upon the sands, nor hunt kaka or kuku,
and so no longer can I join with you in the laughter
and song that was ours. Rather do you labor like
a slave at this great log and fill your days with care
like no other of the tribe. Ah, your eyes are blind
to this new korowai I wove with many pains to
gladden you! You do not see these flowers in my
hair. Scarcely am I a shadow to you throughout
these days.”
“When the sun is high the moon casts no
shadows,” returned Parata slowly. “My work is
wise.”
Marama-ata wheeled and left him, to rejoin the
circle of braves who fidgeted in her absence. She
caught the glance of Ripi the fisherman. With a toss
of her head she smiled at him.
Parata chipped at his canoe with his chisels as if
he had known no interruption.
THE canoe took shape, but only over many weeks.
The canoe-maker soon worked to such exclusion
that others of the tribe brought him food. The
tohungas nimbly countered that by declaring Parata
taboo. They were shrewd enough not to extend the
taboo to the embryo canoe, since that would have
given it tribal importance. As it was, the taboo on
Parata meant that they alone were permitted to feed
him.
Faithful to their trust, they duly fed him —on
famine-clay, with his hands properly tied behind his
back during the process.
Then Marama-ata ran away with Ripi the fisher-
man.
The priests smiled delightedly at finding such an
unsuspected ally.
“Now,” said the tribe when it had recovered from
its astonishment, “Parata will come to himself.”
For a whole day Parata ceased work and was
absent in the bush. Some said he visited the places
he and Marama-ata had roamed together as children.
Next day he picked up his tools again.
“Are you not going to search for Marama-ata?”
asked Katoa, staring.
“My work,” said Parata, “is wise and cannot
wait.”
He spoke as if he was groping nearer in darkness
to a strange but magnetic goal. His eyes were vacant.
“His hunger for the blood of war grows keener,”
said Katoa to his fellow-priest. “Will nothing stop
the ringing of his chisels?”
His voice was smooth. His mirthless grin was
on his lips. Matangi knew Katoa had found an
answer to his own question before he asked it.
“We must be careful, Katoa.”
T“'o no one did Parata speak of the departed
* Marama-ata. His tools bit deeper into the yield-
ing wood. Often at night he sat beneath the lonely
tree that held his father’s bones and stared into the
darkness.


In their playground of the sun the tribe fished
and hunted, sang and idled, loved and feasted.
Parata sang too a canoe waiata which he
composed:
Long as the mountains.
Long as the moonbeams,
Long as the growth of man to wisdom,
Deep as the gorges,
Broad as the ocean,
Swift will you bear my people.
Blood lies thick on the trail of the Maori,
Blood will still be spilled by the Maori.
High in its song falls the bird to the snare.
“Blood-thirst!” muttered those on whose ears
it fell.
The canoe was nearing completion when Parata
fell ill. As Parata lay weakly in his hut two silent
figures met by night beside his untended canoe. They
gouged the sides and, with a few strokes, mutilated the
carved figurehead—the bust of a woman whose eyes
were downcast as if awaiting the rise of the moon.
With the morning sun Parata saw her face in the
doorway of his hut—Marama-ata. He was too weak
even to rise on an elbow, and it was she who opened
arms. His head fell on her shoulder and his body
shook.
Parata took Marama-ata to wife. Under her care
he regained his strength, Katoa, who thought he
heard murmurs, giving the canoe-maker respite from
the taboo while he withdrew into his hut to confer
with Matangi.
It was as an object of superstitious awe that
Parata in due time set about repairing the damage
caused to his canoe by the unseen forces of the air.
As he worked Parata sang his waiata:
Blood lies thick on the trail of the Maori,
Blood will still be spilled by the Maori.
Marama-ata had changed like the seasons. She
was Parata’s willing slave and provider. She fished
and snared, hunted and foraged. Parata gave her
love and tenderness, but she knew his work was his
consuming passion. She no longer resented the fact.
She recognised that his was a mission beyond her
understanding.
'THEN came the sickness. Scores died like flies.
1 Marama-ata wilted, lingered a few days, then
closed her eyes. Parata buried her in a quiet spot.
The prayers of the frightened Katoa and Matangi,
for which the people begged, were of no avail against
the scourge that had descended on them. Katoa
barely anticipated the panic of the tribe by hurriedly
announcing that the gods had advised an abandon-
ment of the settlement.
Only Parata was left behind. He did not realise
he was alone. His canoe was finished. And when at
last he raised his battle-cry there was none to hear.
Far away in the bush the tribe was stumbling
over trails of terror. Katoa was in the vanguard, and
his mind ran with schemes. He deliberately set a
pace which sorely tried the old chief Mamaku. With
his cape flowing behind him and his wild eyes alight
Katoa harried the tribe with the voice of a leader...
A week later he skulked back over the same
trails, but now there was none for him to lead, and
his mind ran with bitterness.
Out of the bush had appeared a strong force
of strange Maoris who with savage yells had fallen
on the tribe and slaughtered them in their tracks.
Katoa saw the chief Mamaku fall to a spear. Then
his fellow-priest Matangi dropped to his knees, his
head split open by a mere, and his unpriestly flesh
lay still.
In that bloody conflict Katoa saw all his plans
vanish. But he saw no reason why he should lose
his life. Marked by no man for the moment, he
turned and ran.
His way led him back at length to the old home
of the tribe. There was nowhere else he felt he could
go, and at least Parata, the war-hungry, was there.
Worn and travel-stained, Katoa reached the
deserted village at nightfall. There was no sign of
Parata or of the canoe, but the priest stared in wonder
at what he saw beyond the clearing. Hurrying over
the strangely churned and trodden ground, he stepped
through a passage freshly cut through the trees, then
down to the glimmering sea. Now he understood.
Parata, by a stupendous single-handed effort, digging
trenches and using rollers made from tree-trunks, had
moved his giant canoe to the water’s edge and launched
it It floated now off-shore, a black monster with
uplifted head.
Several times Katoa called, but received no
answer. Casting off his mantle, he plunged into the
water. Despite his fatigue he soon reached the canoe
and scrambled with difficulty over the side. There
was something black away up in the bow. He crawled
toward it. It was Parata, lying face downward. The
priest propped him up and splashed salt water on his
face. Parata stirred and groaned faintly. Katoa saw
that he was dying of the sickness.
“Speak, Parata, speak!” implored the tohunga,
hungry now for the companionship of speech.
As the life of Parata ebbed the mists that had
shrouded his work and purpose from even his own
understanding seemed to lift. Katoa could see the
glisten of his eyeballs in the moonlight, and hurriedly
the priest muttered a charm.
With a wave of strength Parata struggled to his
knees and uttered to the sky in a voice, vibrant and
ringing, that was scarcely his own: “In thy days of
peace and plenty— prepare . . . and guard !”
Then he fell on his face, twitching.
Katoa licked his dry lips. He gripped the side
of the canoe. He ran his gaze along its length—“ long
as the growth of man to wisdom.” The Koropiko,
their spear-arms quick only for food, were slain
again before his mind’s eye. This canoe was but a
symbol of all that the careless tribe had lacked for
self-protection. ‘‘High in its song falls the bird to the
snare.” Katoa knew now that Parata had labored
only for the defence of peace. He had been a prophet,
not a warrior. And he had been without honor.
KATOA’S impulsive leap took him far into the
water. He struck out madly for the shore.
Reaching it, he clambered up the rocks and sat
exhausted. Soon he fell to shivering, then to
glancing fearfully over his shoulder as if surrounded
by the marshalled ghosts of those of his people who
had died in that nightmare massacre, who had
returned silent-footed to the scene of their betrayal.
The canoe of Parata had been caught by a current.
A majestic thing, it headed out to sea as if guided
by an unseen hand, and melted at last into the
shadows the moon.
“l find myself in the shadow of Marama-ata.
Yet the sun is high in the sky, and the moon has not
risen from her bed of clouds.”
SOME HINTS ON WINTER RECREATION
BY S.H.C.
WITH the approach of winter the writer is
confident that the following notes will be
eagerly read and his suggestions carried out
by all those, particularly sportsmen, who
wish to make the cold season as pleasant and profit-
able a period as possible.
Fox-hunting, otherwise Riding to Hounds. —To
those who wish to enjoy this sport a car is essential,
preferably one possessing a horn that will give a
creditable rendering of the “Gone Away” call. The
main advantage of the car is that it will carry the
huntsman swiftly and surely to vantage points. A
position by a fence or hedge is recommended, for
here the more spectacular spills will occur. Of course,
for those who want to participate in this sport, now
is the time to lay in a supply of habits, breeches,
riding-boots and crops. A horse is also useful, but
a fox need not be obtained.
Winter Swimming. —This is a great game to watch.
From the bank a wonderful view of lunatics, cranks,
fanatics, crack-brained idiots and silly asses in opera-
tion may be had. The only drawback is the stupidly
early hour when the habitues meet. Held later in the
day, the sport would be assured of a larger following.
Football Barracking. —A fairly extensive recrea-
tion. It is necessary that the barracker attend a foot-
ball match. After that no more can be said except
to follow your own bent.
Obtaining Firewood. —This is an exhilarating
game. If you are a tenant, it is permissible to use
the flooring of the washhouse, garage or verandah.
You may use, if you can do without it, the flooring
of the living-rooms, too. The province of the game
also covers your neighbor’s v/oodheap. If you are
a mere owner, then get out and buy your wood.
Winter Sales. —After matured thought, the writer
has concluded that no married woman ever listens
to a man, so he is quite resigned to let them go their
own way in this matter. As for unmarried women,
there is a slight obstacle—the writer’s wife —that
prevents him from writing to them. He will, how-
ever, acknowledge gratefully any verbal communi-
cations.
Keeping Warm. —Those who desire a pleasant
and possibly harmonious method of attaining this
end will find that a bottle of whisky cannot be im-
proved on —save by more of the same. For the
benefit, however, of misguided persons, the writer
has been informed that skipping, running, hockey,
punching a ball, axe-swinging and pick-and-shovel
work do raise the temperature, but he will not
guarantee it.


Brief Outback Sketch
FLOOD
By MRRGARET
TRIST
JULIE ANN had never seen a flood. All her five
years the plains had had a short stubble of yellow
grass, and patches of baked black ground where
the cracks were so wide you could almost put
your foot in them. She had been used to w'aking
early in the morning and seeing the parrots rising in
a gaudy, screeching mob from the dead husks of corn
in the cultivation paddock and hearing the weak
bleating of a doomed sheep and the harsh cawings of
the crows hovering above it. Then one morning she
woke and looked out on to a world strangely grey,
and was soothed by the dull, soft pattering on the
roof.
The rains had come. Grandfather, who had been
predicting them for the last three years, was exultantly
triumphant.
“Better get the sheep up from the lower pad-
docks,” he said to Julie Ann’s father. “There’s going
to be a flood.”
But no one took any notice of Grandfather,
because the weather man said over the wireless from
the city that the rain would not last long.
It was fun going down to milk the cow with
Mother with a sugarbag over your head, and, when
the rain eased, to run out barefooted and paddle in
the overflow from the tanks. The soft rain lasted for
a week, and in the evening Grandfather would tell of
bygone floods and of terrible things that had happened
“once, long ago.” The things he said made Julie Ann
shiver, but you forgot about them by the time you
went to bed because “once, long ago” seemed a com-
fortable distance in the past.
AND now there really was going to be a flood.
- After all, what did a thickheaded weather man
know compared with an old bushman? Grandfather
paced excitedly up and down the verandah, looking
out over the wet paddocks, where green shoots of
grass were showing among the wetness, and called
Father names for not bringing up the sheep from
the lower paddock before. Father, in the old water-
proof from behind the kitchen door, was saddling
Bessie and couldn’t hear Grandfather, which was just
as well.
The rain was tumbling down and the wind was
shaking the house, and far away, yet very distinct
and clear, was the sound of the rising river. When
Father had ridden away, with Grandfather
screaming impressive but unheard instruc-
tions after him, Julie Ann went back to the
kitchen and watched Mother setting an extra
batch of bread in case any of the settlers
from the river had to leave their homes and
come up.
It was a cosy kitchen with big wooden
windows and a swinging lamp hanging from
a round beam. On the blackened roof little
brown lizards dozed lazily, sometimes
snapping at a fly or scurrying away
out of sight. The wireless was in the corner of the
room, and when they turned it on the announcer,
hundreds of miles away in the city, gurgled in a
seasick voice that in the upper reaches the river was
rising six inches an hour and coming down fast.
“By noon,” said Grandfather, “the upper bridge
will be cut off,” and nearly danced with delight
when, shortly before noon, young Bill Collins rode
through and reported that both the approaches were
submerged.
The flood seemed to take away the years from
Grandfather and give an added brightness to his eyes,
so that he could wander about with his glasses in his
old yellow hands, and now and again crackled into
song, or walked Julie Ann up and down beside him,
reciting resonantly
“A was an archer who shot at a frog;
B was a butcher who had a big dog;
C was a captain all covered in lace ;
D was a dandy who had a kind face.”
Or, again, sometimes he would lean against the
verandah-post and stare back into the years when
there wasn’t a Julie Ann or a wireless or a telephone,
and back much further still to when there wasn’t a
house at all —just a hut with a dirt floor. But you
didn’t mention those things now; they were lost in
that vast limbo of forgotten pain and endurance, and
their memory must die with the failing mind of an
old man.
[ N the early afternoon the first mob of sheep arrived
* and straggled into the home paddock, a bedraggled,
docile, bleating mass. The men who brought them
gulped hot tea in the kitchen and galloped away
again.
The rain poured unceasingly, pelting on the roof
and surging down overflow pipes. Out in the open
it swirled and eddied where the wind caught it. The
soaked sheep set up a plaintive, incessant baa-ing,
and the windmill revolved slowly with a dreary
rhythmic clanging.
Darkness set in early, a wet, thick darkness that
frightened Julie Ann and made her cling tightly to
Grandfather’s hand or closely follow her mother as
she went from room to room making-up beds in every
available spot. Further down the track a tree had
fallen over the telephone-
wires, so that no message
came through, and when
they put on the wireless it
hissed and crackled so that
Grandfather said it was
dangerous and that he never
had had any time for it,
anyhow. Mother turned it
off, and they suddenly
seemed very lonely and
helpless, the old man and
the little girl and the tired
woman.
Together they went to
the verandah and stared
into the darkness while the
sheep baa’d and shuffled
around the garden fence.
There were more sheep
there now, and not all of
them belonged to Father.
The men had picked up any
small mob on the way and
the brands were hopelessly
mixed. Still, they were safe,
and at present that was all
that mattered.
Far down the paddock
a tiny bobbing light
showed, shining brightly
one second, the next hidden
by trees as the track bent.
When it stopped at the far
gate Mother went quickly
to the kitchen while Grand-
father got the big tub
from the wash-house. The
kerosene-tins on the stove
were full of hot water, and
clean towels and old clothes of Julie Ann’s were
spread on the bunk in case there were small kiddies.
Mother made a big pot of tea, then, throwing a
sugarbag over her head, went out into the rain to
hold the horse’s head.
1 T was the Hennesseys. Mr. and Mrs. Hennessey
' and their three small girls, to say nothing of a
baby pig, half a dozen prize Wyandotte fowls and a
turkey gobbler. There was a great clatter and noise,
and Mrs. Hennessey said prayers in a loud, quick
voice while she took the fowls to the hen-roost and
Mother and Mr. Hennessey let the horse go and pulled
the dray as best they could to the shelter of the barn.
Grandfather and Julie Ann took the little girls to the
kitchen and tried to get their clothes off them, while
the children shrieked and clung desperately to their
drenched garments.
For the first time that night Julie Ann realised
how many things her mother could do at once. It
took her no time to get the children bathed and
wrapped up warmly and a hot meal set on the table.
Between mouthfuls Mrs. Hennessey prayed, but Mr.
Hennessey didn’t say anything just ate and looked
far away. Then he went and sat by the fire and held
his head in his hands.
Soon after that the Martins came and the
Smiths and the Jervises. Mrs. Jervis brought with
her a table sewing-machine that her husband had
given her for a wedding present, and the Smiths and
their six children had- come in an old dray, driving
their three cows before them. The house was very
full, and littered with damp clothes and sodden
parcels. Mother bathed children, made tea and
washed-up while the women watched her dull-eyed
and the men sat together, too beaten and tired to
even want to try to rescue any of their things.
MOBS of sheep were brought up till late in the
night. Nearly every time you looked you could
see lanterns swinging down in the paddocks, hear the
yapping of the dogs and the shouts of the horsemen.
The rain was still pouring ; it hadn’t rained like this
since ’92, Grandfather insisted, and Julie Ann listened
in fascinated horror, because she knew that terrible
things had happened in ’92.
By eleven o’clock, when the men came in, the
yards were packed. The sheep, weak and uncomfort-
able, bleated miserably, while a small mob of forlorn
cows gathered around the kitchen fence and set up
a plaintive mooing. Above everything the river
roared and thundered so loudly and distinctly that
you could almost hear it swirling over the tops of
fences and fallen trees and rushing on the homes of
the settlers, lapping over Mrs. Martin’s starched white
quilt that she had forgotten to move to safety and
sweeping away the cultivation that was to have kept
the Hennesseys for the next three months.
“The upper bridge has been swept away, Father
told them, “and the mountain waters are not down
yet.”
“Nothing more can be done to-night, Mothei
said. “Oughtn’t we to go to bed?”
(Continued on page 7.)


But no one wanted to go to bed, not even Julie
Ann or Grandfather, who usually couldn’t keep awake
long enough to hear the eight-o’clock news on the
wireless at night. They sat around, first silently,
listening to the river and the rain, then talking in low
tones while the children dozed on the floor, only to
wake in sudden friaht and whimner Twice Mother
, auuucu nigui duu wmmpei. i wive mould
made tea,, and Julie Ann sat in Grandfather’s lap
while he told everyone about floods that had been
long years before any of them were born, or droned
to the children “A was an archer who shot at a
frog.”
Julie Ann had never known before how many long
hours went between the end and beginning of day.
Often she dropped to sleep, only to wake and find
that it was still night. Once the rain stopped, only to
beat down more furiously, and the wind blew more
loudly, whistling about the house and shaking it so
that every board cracked and creaked and the lights
spluttered. But it did not blot out the sound of the
river. A loud, clear, roaring sound that was like a
dragon rushing down on its prey.
A T last the morning came, a grey, wind-lashed
** morning, but strangely not such a terrible morning
as everyone expected. Down low there was a rift in
the clouds, and when Bill Collins rode through he
told them that the upper waters were down and had
not swelled the i oca i wat ers very much at all. There
... c , , ~ , , , . r , ,
were CQWS tQ mi ]v f ow ] s to feed and breakfast to
, . , - o 1 f f ,
ge * ’ and ! h ® ge "® ] ? „ Y , , .
suddenl y whistled and Mrs. Hennessey e toff praying
t 0 thre ®. g ‘ r f becau * e they h^ d refused J°
go to bed tbe nlgbt belore and marched them oft to
tbe nearest
To Grandfathers disappointment the waters did
not reacb as high as they bad done in By noon
the Y were at tbeir bmit > and > b y next mor ning, with the
sid of a hot sun, were receding quickly. Suddenly
everyone was happy. Most of the stock had been
saved, and the settlers’ homes still stood. And though
the houses were very dirty, piled with silt, marked by
water and alive with creepy-crawly things, that did
not matter. And what was the sweeping-away of a
patch of cultivation when the soil was a rich black
and the tanks overflowing with water? The Hen-
nesseys gathered their children, their fowls and their
pig and rode away, with the Martins, the Smiths and
their cows and the Jervises closely following them,
,
IT was very quiet after they d ail gone, bather went
x A u • , ■ / . ...
to let the sheep into wider pastures until the diaft-
ing and Mother turned to the disordered house and
empty bread-tin. But Grandfather took Julie Ann’s
hand and they went out among the mud and the
pu ddles and the soft green grass.
‘After the flood of ninety-two, said Grand-
father, “there was a drought; the biggest drought
I’ve seen in my life. You mark my words. There’ll
be the biggest drought in the history of the country
after this.
They went on in silence, and Julie Ann thought
of the next drought; and Grandfather squeezed her
hand with his old yellow one and did not think of
the next drought at all but of one that was long since
over—one that had been “once, long ago.”
Raggles Again
THE OLDPUB
by
[?]
C.
B.
THE old pub ’ad been empty on
the council’s ’ands ever since McNeil
bought the vacant land next to it and built
the new one. It was no use at all, and it looked
like stayin’ empty till it fell to pieces. So naturally
I gets quite a surprise when Mr. Wallis, the town
clerk, tells me to clear the rats out of it.
“I’ve just ’ad it cleaned out, Raggles,” he ses,
“and the cleaner says it’s alive with rats. There’s a
lady cornin’ to inspect it first thing Thursday, and
she might take a long lease; but she's most par-
ticular —used to be a matron in a ’ospital, and she
can’t bear dirt and vermin. If she ’ears rats scam-
perin’ about it might turn ’er off the place. So you’d
better get busy right away.”
“Very well, Mr. Wallis,” I ses. “I’ll set all me
traps there. Wot’s the lady goin’ to use the place
for, a boardin’-’ouse?”
“No,” he ses, “a ’otel. And it’s goin’ to ’ave a
public bar.” 4
“Wot!” I ses. “Next door to the Shelterin’ Palm!
McNeil won’t like that.”
“There’s ’otels and ’otels, Raggles,” ses Mr.
Wallis. “This one’s a ’Ealth ’Otel, and the bar’s a
milk bar. The lady, Miss Pilkington, is the president
of the More Milk Movement. She ’opes to turn men
away from beer and spirits and make ’em milk-
minded. I suppose she’ll ’old meetings and make
speeches, but as long as she takes a lease of that
white elephant she can do wot she likes. She’s a
sincere, ’ard-workin’ woman, anyway.”
D UT that wasn’t wot McNeil said she was when I
told ’im about her.
“It ain’t right,” he ses, very fierce. “It oughtn’t
to be allowed. Wot right ’as this woman to come
’ere preachin’ against
a good, ’olesome beverage?
She’ll ’ave the wimmen on her
side too —and most of my good customers is married
men. It’s goin’ to ’arm my trade, and there ain’t
much in ’otels these days. Wot with license fees and
taxes and broken glasses and bad debts a publican
can ’ardly scratch up a livin’ without ’avin’ milk bars
settin’ up next to ’im.”
He went on grumblin’ and growlin’, but when I
tells ’im about my talk with Mr. Wallis he bucks up
a bit and fills my mug up.
“So she don’t like rats, eh?” he ses, thoughtful.
“Funny if she did see a few while she was inspectin’.
Give ’er a nasty shock.”
“There ain’t no chance of that, Mr. McNeil,” 1
ses, shakin’ my ’ead. “Once I starts on a place ’ot
and strong I cleans the rats right out.”
“Ho!” he ses, lookin’ at me. “Well, I ’ope, for
the sake of some of my customers, she don’t take the
place. I’ll ’ave to start callin’ in outstandin’ debts
if she does. By the way, Raggles,” he ses, frownin’,
“if I remember right, you ’ave a outstandin’ debt
with me.”
I didn’t say nothin’. I pushed my mug away
and he filled it up again.
“If anything turned that woman off the old pub,”
he ses softly—“say rats, for instance —I might for-
get that debt, Raggles. And ’ow would you like to
’ave a mug on the ’ouse every night for the rest of
the summer? A nice long mug straight off the ice?”
\ A OST men would ’ave jumped at the chance there
land then ; but not me. I just thanked ’im and
told ’im I’d think over it; and as it ’appened it was
just as well I ’adn’t made no promises, because after
I’d turned it over in me mind I found I couldn’t be
a traitor to me profession. My duty was to keep
rats down, and not even the thought of
that ice-cold mug could stop me from
doin’ it.
I’ve often been laughed at and called
a fool on account of me old-fashioned
ideas about duty, but I can’t ’elp it. I’m
just built that way. I took all me traps
to the old pub and worked like a slave ;
and by Wednesday night I was able to
look Mr. Wallis in the eye and tell ’im
I’d done me duty.
All the same I ’ad a uneasy feelin’
as 1 went ’ome that night that I ’ad
foigot somethin’; but it wasn’t till after
lunch next day that I suddenly remem-
bers wot it was: I ’ad forgot to take
away the rats 1 ’ad caught, and they was
all lyin’ in a ’eap in one of the rooms of
the old pub.
It was too late to do anything. Miss
Pilkington would ’ave looked over the
place by then, and even if she ’adn’t seen
them rats she’d know they was there,
because the night before ’ad been stiflin’
’ot.
It worried me somethin’ awful for
the rest of the day ; but as I’m goin’ up
to Mr. Wallis’s office that evenin’ I spots
the silver linin’, as the sayin’ is. If them
rats ’ad turned the woman off the old
pub I’d get my free mugs from McNeil
after all, and, wot’s more, I ’adn’t ’ad to neglect me
duty to get ’em.
N A R. WALLIS looks up from ’is desk and glares at
I*l m e when I come in.
“I’ve been waitin’ for you,” he growls. “Do
you know wot you did yesterday?”
“I do, Mr. Wallis,” I ses. “I just remembered.
I was so busy catchin’ them rats I forgot all about
gettin’ rid of ’em. I lost meself in me work, as the
sayin’ is, I only ’ope it asn’t caused no trouble.”
“Oh, do you?” he snorts. “Well, it ’as. The
’Ealth Inspector was rung up urgent last night about
the ’orrible smell and he ’ad to go lookin’ for it in
the middle of the night; and when he found them
rats of yours he ’ad to clear ’em away and disinfect
the room. Thank goodness we won’t ’ave no more
trouble with that old place. Miss Pilkington took a
long lease Wot’s the matter?” he ses, starin’ at
me.
“Nothin’,” I ses, ’oldin’ on to ’is desk and
thinkin’ wot a lot of busybodies there are in the
world. “Who was it complained about the smell?”
“McNeil,” ses Mr. Wallis.
LASCARS .
Beside the bustling wharf
Stolid the big ships lie.
Hoarse -voices shout from deck and hold.
Tough cables groan and sigh.
Against the dingy, smoke-smeared sky
Where gulls uncaring drift,
The great cranes, turning slowly, lift
Queer, bulky shapes on high;
And laborers, snuffling in the cold,
Work doggedly with shoulders bent.
The lovely rumor of the sea
Is gone from ship and crowded quay —•
Is like an empty tale oft-told.
Only the Lascars, fugitively glimpsed,
Have life and warmth. An alien crew,
Their wispy tatters, red and blue,
Their bright caps flout
The oily drabness round about.
Their faces, looking stilly out
From humble portholes, seem
(. Dark-skinned and secretive ) to hold
The glamor of hot, spicy lands,
And shores immeasurably old.
VICTORIA.
MYRA MORRIS.


the conditions that produced them have gone for
ever. Up to 60 or 70 years ago seamen were treated
as beasts, and often beasts they became. And yet—
“ Kicked, cursed, hazed, bullyragged, fed with filth,
housed in dens, badly paid, they were at once the
hardiest, most courageous and most patient men ever
known,” and men who had been flogged would fight
like tigers when laid alongside an enemy and cheer
the captain who had lashed them.
There could be no greater hell in life for any
man than to serve under one like Captain Dudman,
of the East Indiaman Inglis. He once had a man
flogged until he fainted. Revived by the surgeon, he
was flogged again. The crew, forced to witness it,
moved off before the flogging was finished. Dudman
furiously asked them where they were going.
A little Cockney, with the impudence <i
sparrow, yelled out: “We don’t it a man when e s
dahn!” The captain had the man “started,” which
meant that he was flogged all round the deck, and
he was unable to move from his hammock for six
weeks. The third mate served out grog to a seaman
until he was drunk ; then he persuaded the man to
eat a mixture of tar, candles and soap, and, when he
was sick, ordered him to be flogged for defiling the
deck. Off the Cape the Inglis ran into a gale. The
captain ordered one of the smallest boys on to the
spanker boom, a fearful task. Numbed with the
cold, tossed about like a plaything, the boy fell into
the sea and was drowned. This and other atrocities
ad nauseam led to the exposure of Dudman in London,
as a result of which there was a general tendency to
give consideration to seamen’s grievances. But reform
came slowly.
The most interesting chapter to Australians is
the story of William Swallow, the astonishing convict
who was sent to Van Diemen’s Land in 1821, but
promptly escaped and made his way back to England.
Convicted again, he was once more at Hobart, given
50 lashes for endeavoring to escape a second time,
and sent on the Cyprus with 32 others to Macquarie
Harbor. Under Swallow’s direction, though he knew
no more of navigation than to mend a sail, the
convicts captured the ship and sailed it to China.
There the ship was wrecked, but some of the convicts
succeeded in returning to London, where by a mere
chance they were discovered. While four of them
were sentenced to death, Swallow alone was acquitted.
Aldington's New Satire.
In Richard Aldington’s first book, Death of a
Hero, satire began at what appeared to be maximum
strength, but he has gone on. In Death of a Hero
he attacked a generation ; in Very Heaven (Heine-
mann ; 7s. 6d.) his targets are larger—human nature,
civilisation, unreasonableness of women, greedy and
emotional living of all sorts. The satire is competent,
continuous and savage. The title itself is a very
compendium of bitterness. It is from Wordsworth s
lines on the French Revolution,
Bliss was it in that dawn to be alive,
But to be young was very heaven!
and it loses nothing by the reflection that Wordsworth
later became the toughest of the blue reactionaries.
Very Heaven is the tragedy of youth in a chang-
ing world. Chris Fleylin, at 20 or so, is torn from
the university and the study of pre-history by the
loss of the family fortune. He discovers that pros-
perity had covered many things—for instance, his
mother’s romantic stupidity and avarice (Aldington
is very hard on mothers) —and he finds himself in a
world without a lid, among the garbage. His only
resource is his intelligence, his only weapon his will
to live reasonably. The last is an unforgivable sin
in the eyes of his parents’ generation. At the end
of the book Chris is without a job, without hope of
doing any of the things he wants to do or of using
his abilities. The tragedies of his. sister’s marriage and
his father’s death are hung about his neck. Living
reasonably has been as disastrous as living unreason-
ably, for the fools possess the world. His youth is
a mortal disadvantage.
The picture is as black as ink can make it. The
satire is omnipresent. Nothing is too large or too
small for it, too general or too particular. Chris’s
study of pre-history gives Aldington a chance to carry
his animus over a very long range. Every character
illustrates a point—generally a barbed one. Even
the most incidental figures, such as the sanctimonious
publican who did not hold with chapel-going as it
was bad for trade, carry a gibe, and even inanimate
objects, such as houses, are not exempt. But the
keenest point of the satire is directed at the pre-war
generation:
The pre-war Englishman was frequently a kind of
blond fish—long, chilly and inarticulate, predatory with
all the arrogance of a barracouta. Nourished on
Mother Siegel’s fighting syrup provided by bloody-
minded authorities and authors, he fancied himself a
match for all the rest of an inferior world. The Nelson
Column was the umbilicus of his vast, largely fictitious
empire. All trains started from Waterloo.
After a century of facile triumphs over niggers,
this devilish fine sportsman had the unpleasant experience
of being hit by one his own size. In response to this
environment the fish gradually developed the protective
coloring of the pacific idealist, the idea being to interest
the world in preserving him. This having failed, he is
rather up against it, and the children are faced with a
long, bleak prospect of paying for the sins of the fathers.
The book attacks roughly and crudely. It has
strength, fire, vivacity, but its subtlety is that of the
exploding bullet. It is a bitter but not a misanthropic
book. Aldingon has created sympathetic characters
in Chris and Martha, he has pity and understanding
for Juliette and Gwen. At the back of the ferocity
there is sorrow for all the wastage of life, faith in
the possibility of something better, love for his
fellows. It is a plea.
We make a dull, noisy prison and call it civilisation,
when already we have the power to make life richer
and more intelligent than has ever been dreamed. And
among the prisoners the most depressed and unhappy
are those who only stand and wait. Misery of the
superfluous and the unneeded, the huge army that rots
and rusts while the murder armies grow bigger and
bigger, preparing to defend the cherished stupidities and
to destroy blindly the hope of a sweeter world, a finer
race.
The books ends in a manifesto.
Portrait of an Actress.
Somerset Maugham’s new novel. Theatre (Heine-
mann ; Angus and Robertson ; 7s. 6d.), is a study in
cumulative vulgarity. It is a portrait rather than a
story. Stroke by stroke Maugham builds up the
picture of Julia Lambert, a famous actress. We see
Julia first in her forties, at the height of her fame,
beautiful, fascinating, chaste but not dull, the publicity
expert’s dream, just exactly as it has long been a
novelist’s convention to depict super-successful
actresses. Maugham takes considerable time and
trouble getting the reader to accept this confectioner’s
dummy, a necessary preparation for what follows.
The book drags a little here. It is curiously untypical
of the author; his pen might have become entangled
with Compton Mackenzie’s, except for Julia’s giggles,
her asides in a blunter idiom than her conversation
and her facility in doing the right thing.
While Julia turns over photographs we learn
the unremarkable story of her life, her apprenticeship
in repertory, her skilled and successful courtship of
the fabulously handsome young actor Michael Gosse-
lyn, their rise to success together, the dulling of love
to a comfortable neutral tint, and of the only son, at
Eton, who somehow does not care to be photographed
with his mother. Out of this impeccable surface the
real Julia rises into view. It is not a change or a
miracle, but the natural development of her character
by circumstances most likely to mature and reveal
it along its own lines.
In the trough of success Julia falls in love with
a very young man, Tom Fennell. Very delicately she
pulls the strings of his vanity and plays the same
little scenes that she played with Michael 20 years
before. Tom is nearly as vulgar and shoddy as she
is herself. /Gradually, under the mask of an idyll,
they bring out all that is ugly in each other. Her
assumption that she can buy, in one coin or another,
anything she wants, while acting a part of guileless
tenderness, and his willingness to take all he can get
while registering scenes of nobility and humiliation,
give an ugly twist to an old situation. Tom falls in
love with a young actress, a simulacrum of a girl,
and Julia suffers something approaching genuine pain.
She puts real feeling into her acting and it becomes
bad, inartistic. Love fades but jealousy remains.
Julia very skilfully, almost imperceptibly, arranges a
failure for her young rival. The book ends with
Julia’s triumph. She has had a great first night.
Avice is discredited, Tom won back, though she is now
indifferent to him, everyone is dazzled, she is com-
fortable and secure again. She celebrates it alone
with steak, onions and beer at Berkeley. She is
completely satisfied.
The shock is to find that Julia is, not that she
is not, a dummy. She is not sensitive enough to live,
and so she is a magnificent actress. There is none
of those flaws that distinguish the hand-made article
from the machine-made. , She is perfect, and she is
a monster. She debases everything she touches, she
uses everyone in sight. She can only act. Her shabby
soul is trapped in acting.
“Don’t you love me?” she asks her son wistfully.
“I might if I could find you. But where are you?
If one stripped you of your exhibitionism, if one took
your technique away from you, if one peeled you as one
peels an onion of skin after skin ot pretence and
insincerity, of tags of old parts and shreds of faked
emotions, would one come to a soul at last?” He looked
at her with his grave, sad eyes, and then he smiled
a little. “I like you all right.”
Whatever Julia is she is a true artist. It is the
measure of Maugham’s skill that he convinces his
reader of that. It is the bitterest thing in the book,
a philosophy of art itself.
Like all Maugham’s work, this book is written
with point and urbanity. It gathers speed as it goes
along. Being a playwright himself, he is not above
sharpening a stiletto now and then for the actor-
manager, as when Michael boasts in one breath that
he always puts on a play exactly as the author wrote
it, and in the next that the author himself would not
know it after he had improved it.
Coppard Short Stories.
A. E. Coppard is one of the few writers to-day
seeking reputation solely in the short story. The title
story of his latest volume, Ninepenny Flute (Mac-
millan ; 7s. 6d.), purports to be told by an urchin in
his early teens. Attracted by the promise of being
introduced into a drum-and-fife band which parades
through the town on Saturday nights, he buys a flute
from another boy for 9d. on a time-payment plan.
He subsequently discovers that it has a crack in it,
and, in any case, it is pitched a half-tone too high
for the band. However, the bandmaster wears a
medal earned by lifesaving, so the urchin decides to
“give up music and have a go at swimming.” Before
this can be put into effect he sees a militia parade
and becomes enamored of the army —not for war-
like purposes but to wear a red coat and blow a
bugle. He volunteers, but can’t get a sound out of
the instrument. On the way home he encounters two
soldiers beating a civilian. They in turn are roundly
thrashed by another civilian who happens along; so
the urchin, his humiliating efforts with the bugle still
fresh in mind, and the lifesaver’s medals forgotten,
decides to take up boxing. He buys “a rabbit off a
fellow who said he was going to learn me all the
doings of the noble art of self-defence.”
Coppard tells the story in such a way that during
the first half the reader wonders what is happening to
his interest in the flute, and through the last hall is
aware that the urchin himself is a “ninepenny flute,
giving off cracked little tunes to every changing wind
that blows through him. That is the author at his best.
The cryptic element in his work is enjoyable, but he
can’t always bring it off. He commits himself to
such difficulties that he is like a man learning tight-
rope walking—he gets as many falls as walks. “Jove’s
Nectar,” a fantasy, teeters perilously above the chasm
of claptrap. “The Philosopher’s Daughter,” “Six Sad
Men,” “The Landmark” and “Good Samaritans” do
not seem to achieve much more than windy allegory.
“All the World a Stage” rings the changes on the
title story ; an amateur actor, in telling of the petty
meannesses that rivalry brings out among a group
of players, unconsciously discloses his own mean-
ness. “Some Talk of Alexander” is effective ; it tells
of a young man who went down to the river to
commit suicide, but who was carried to the opposite
bank by the current, where, in his difficulties oyer
the lack of clothes, his thoughts of self-destruction
are forgotten. “The Halfyard Ham,” telling how a
merchant sold a good ham to a widow in mistake
for a bad one, is successful ; he sells it cheaply in
both meanings of the word. “The Chronicles of
Andrew,” in which two children encounter a semi-
fabulous old gamekeeper and discover, among other
things, that “rabbits are quite fierceless,” is also at
Coppard’s best level.
But too often in the stories in this volume the
point is either over-obvious or else so fine as to be
difficult to detect.
Strife in Welsh Valleys.
The Welshman Rhys Davies has done some
notable work both in novels and short stories, but
his latest book, A Time to Laugh (Heinemann ; 9s.
6d.), while deserving of more than a passing mention,
leaves something to be desired.
It is set in the Welsh coalmining valleys in the
closing years of last century, and depicts the awaken-
ing of a collective consciousness among the miners—
men who still, at that time, had traditional, if not
personal, memories of the days before industrial
development drew them from the green farms to the
mines and to the shambling black towns that spread
among the rising slagheaps. He shows the miners
and their families as a> new race, bred of changing
economic conditions —a slum-bred people being
crushed between the upper millstone of competitive
business and the nether one of their own failings of
character. The early part of the book shows their
groping toward some form of organisation and some
means of articulation, and the last part foreshadows
the rise of a Parliamentary Labor party, which grew
in Britain, as it did in Australia, out of the failure
of a series of otherwise desperate, wasteful and futile
strikes.
Davies knows his countrymen. The pictures he
draws of life in the black slums rings true, and so
does his picture of the inhabitants turning from reli-
gious revivals to industrial strife with the same
emotional fervor and with the same backslidings.
Unable to find the root cause of the futility and dis-
order of their lives, they seek relief in intoxication
on whatever brand of rhetoric is offered them.
The book has considerable documentary value,
but fails somewhat as a novel because the author has
described rather than dramatised. He has fictionised
his story of the miners’ riots, meetings, marchings
and counter-marchings with some skill, but it almost
seems as if he has permitted himself to be over-
whelmed by his factual material. He might have
achieved his desired end effectively had he
focused attention on a small, relevant, personal drama,
permitting the reader to realise the major forces
inferen dally. Such drama as he offers does not
develop out of the matters that are his chief
preoccupation.
Young Dr. Tudor Morris, who, out of sympathy
with the distressed people, leaves his partnership with
his father and goes down into the slums to practise
his profession and to give the miners the benefit of
his leadership in their struggle, is a mere symbol of
altruism —he never comes alive. His grandmother,
Bronwen, who remembers when hawthorn blew where
the slagheaps rise, is a period figure introduced to give
historic perspective to the tale. His mother, who dies
of a broken heart because of his defection from the
ranks of middle-class respectability, fails to convince.
C. P. Meridith, the miner who rises to be a part
owner, and who is torn between divided loyalties, is
real, but does not appear often. Melville, a young
miner who is the first of his comrades to lift his
head above mob emotion and take a broad view oi
the miners’ relationship to the world at large, promises
well at the beginning, but spends the duration of the
story in gaol.
The treatment of the main subject-matter holds
attention up to a point, but lack of interpretation in
terms of personal drama makes reading the book like
knocking at a door that fails to open.
Commonwealth National Library at Canberra
has commenced the publication of an Annual Cata-
logue of Australian Publications, listing in the first
issue the books published during 1936 and a few
dated 1935. Classification shows that Australia s
literary output last year totalled over 500 items. Social
sciences, including economics, law and education,
accounted for over 100, closely followed by imagina-
tive literature —novels, verse and essays. History,
biography and travel come next with 87 items, ano
technical and business literature 75. Other classi-
fications also ran. N. S. Wales published nearly halt
the total output. The publication is a much-needed
reference work, but for future issues some improve-
ment in the typography is desirable. Australian
university librarians are preparing a Selective List
of Australian Publications, with the assistance ot
experts, which will cover the whole range of Aus-
tralian literature, but it is not expected that this will
be ready for at least two years.


tfjv-.v,
<•*<
•v.-.v,
I
&
.% v.
•*v. v*
I
: ®s
ss
8S
“I can tell
White Horse
blindfold!
You have only to use your
judgment. Fragrance, softness and a glow such as this can only
belong to a whisky that equals a fine liqueur.??
[WH2-37]
Screw cap flasks of convenient si%es on sale everywhere
E qual to
a fine
liqueur n


PURPLE
PARA
IH
m
■
111
Mm
*
■H
mm
u
m
&
m
mm
■
H i
'
If
IP
-'v
\
■
m
■
H :
I
■n
Another Interior View of One of the Huge Storage Cellars.


“HE SHALL STAND BEFORE KINGS.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
252]88; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : National Mutual Buildings, 91
King William Street, Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Saywell Buildings, 115 Lambton
Quay, Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London,
E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.')
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji and •
United Kingdom via “All Sea Route,” 2d. New
Hebrides and United Kingdom via France or
America, 3d. To all other places, 4d.
YES. IT'S A "FREE" PRESS!
Dr. Asmis, the German Consul-General, has repeated
in Australia his Government’s denial, published at
Berlin and formally communicated to the British
Foreign Office, of the charge that German airmen,
in German aircraft, barbarously destroyed the “open”
Spanish town of Guernica. He protested that news-
paper accounts of Spanish-war atrocities imputed to
Germans hindered his task of promoting goodwill
between bis country and the Commonwealth. For
this he was chided in a very high-and-mighty
fashion by the Sydney “Daily Telegraph” (the “new”
one), and bidden to remember that “Australia has
a free press.”
The news that appears in the Australian press is not
tailored to fit a particular political viewpoint If Dr.
Asmis cannot accept its cables the reason must be
that he reads in it: news that he would not be allowed
to read in Germany.
Two days later the “new” “Daily Telegraph,”
evidently by way of rubbing it in, came out with
the headline MORE BOMBING HORRORS BY
GERMANS FEARED. “Formations of German
machines” were “said” to be “crossing into Spain by
night, leading observers to believe that massed bomb-
ings of Bilbao and Madrid, more terrible than the
one that wiped out Guernica,” were imminent.
To reach the Spanish frontier these “formations”
would have to fly over 500 or 600 miles of France
or of Switzerland and France. They could reach
their destination only by eluding the representatives
of 13 countries, parties to the non-intervention agree-
ment, posted on the Franco-Spanish frontier. If they
crossed Switzerland first they would have to reckon
with a serious repetition of the action mentioned in
a Basle cablegram, dated April 28, when “Swiss artil-
lery fired blank shots as a warning at a German
airship that flew low over the frontier and immediately
withdrew towards Germany, and the Swiss Govern-
ment made a protest to Berlin.” If they tried to cross
France they would be guilty, not only of a betrayal
of the non-intervention agreement, but of a grave
challenge to French sovereignty, virtually an act of war.
In any case, what would the French air force, prob-
ably the greatest in Europe, be doing to let them fly
over France?
The principal author of the Guernica atrocity
stories is (or was) the “Times” correspondent at
Bilbao. The same gentleman also circulated the narra-
tive that the “rebel” battleship Espana had been sunk
by “loyalist” bombers. Describing this exploit “as a
landmark in the history of aviation,” he found him-
self in conflict with the naval correspondent of his
newspaper, who pronounced the Espana an “old-
fashioned craft” with “only four-inch protective armor
over her stern and vitals” ; in short, “an ideal target
for bombers.” Nothing of the kind, quoth the Bilbao
correspondent of the “Times”; the Espana was a
formidable proposition, “armed with the most modern
anti-aircraft guns, which were manned by efficient
German crews.” Within a few days he had been
contradicted by the First Lord of the Admiralty, who
said that an insurgent destroyer had been summoned
to the assistance of the Espana an hour before the
“loyalist” aircraft appeared ; that when they appeared
the Espana made no attempt to get away; that a
British merchantman which saw the whole thing saw
no bombs fall on or near her, and that “all the
evidence in the possession of the Admiralty points to
the conclusion that the vessel was sunk by a mine.”
On the subject of Guernica, the “Times” corre-
spondent at Bilbao is in conflict with the “Times”
correspondent at Vittoria. The former, who writes in
a rankly partisan style, raging when the rebels win,
by “methods associated with the constant dissemination
of false news,” and exulting when he can report that
the “dashing” Basques were “victorious all along the
line,” asserted, in the first place, that “German bomb-
ing ’planes pounded the whole town, of 7000 inhabi-
tants and 3000 refugees, to pieces.”
The populace took refuge in cellars and dugouts
when the church bells rang the alarm. A German
bomber began operations five minutes later, and another
’plane bombed the centre of the town. Three Junker
52’s continued the work of demolition.
It was not a military objective. The object was
vengefully to destroy the cradle of the Basque race,
and the rebels chose a market day, when crowds filled
the town. First, small parties of ’planes, selecting area
after area, scattered bombs and grenades all over the
town; then fighting ’planes machine-gunned those fleeing
panic-stricken from the dugouts, which were penetrated
by bombholes 25ft. deep....l myself, while sheltering
in a bombhole, was machine-gunned by six returning
chasers. According to German pilots captured in April,
German aeroplanes, manned entirely by German pilots,
left Germany in February.
The “Times” correspondent at Vittoria, after a
personal inspection made the same week, found it
“difficult to believe that Guernica was intensively-
bombed or was selected by the insurgents as an
experiment for the use of incendiary bombs.”
Fire destroyed all evidence of origin. Distinctive
marks of an intensive aerial bombardment were not
numerous. Only a few fragments of bombs were
recovered, and the facades of many buildings were
unmarked. The craters in the streets were larger than
bombholes, and it is a fair inference that they were
caused by exploding mines unscientifically laid.
In short, he “suggested that the town had been
mined and burnt from within.” Color is lent to this
theory by the London “Telegraph” correspondent’s
account of the evacuation of Eibar, on the same
front:
Bursts of yellow vapor arose from where the last
band of syndicalists to leave had chemically ignited
the munition works. The fire spread till every house
was alight. The streets were strewn with blazing
wreckage and smashed machinery.
The London “Telegraph” man—no friend to the
“rebels” —wrote as an eyewitness, and the “Times”
correspondent at Bilbao conveyed the impression
that he himself had witnessed the scenes he
so luridly described. But when he had to say some-
thing in reply to the “Times” correspondent at Vittoria
and the “Times” leader-writer (“it does appear that
some part of the fire may have been the work of
incendiaries”) and a “Times” contributor (“Guernica
was almost as great a centre for the manufacture of
small arms as Eibar”), he was obliged to admit that
he was not in Guernica when “the German airmen”
in their Junkers and Heinkels “pounded the whole
town to pieces” and “killed the fugitives as they
ran.”
I was on the spot shortly after the bombing of the
town When the insurgents lead journalists on a con-
ducted tour, they may fill in the bombholes first and
even obligingly provide a smell of petrol, but the fact
remains that bombs from General Franco’s aeroplanes
burnt Guernica. The Basques will never forget.
The fellow can’t even be explicit as to when he
reached the place after the “bombing” he didn’t see,
though he was positive before his story was chal-
lenged that “a German bomber began operations five
minutes after the church bells rang the alarm.” And
it was mainly on the strength of the “evidence” col-
lected at second-hand by this one-eyed and bowled-
out sensation-monger that the Sydney “Sun,” the
“S. M. Herald” and the “Daily Telegraph” found
the Germans guilty, and disdainfully refused even to
consider the German case. Of course, this is only
of a piece with the daily diatribe against Hitler, who,
on the authority of the “Cronk News,” was recently
about to have all the German cardinals and bishops
arrested; or against Mussolini, who, as the cock-
eyed journalistic world knows, had a French tart at
Rome, is a reincarnation of Antiochus the Madman,
sent orders by telegram to the Italian Army in Spain,
planned the use of poison gas when it was defeated,
plotted the destruction of the Republic as far back
as 1934 (the proofs are contained in a letter written
by a Spaniard on a Rome hotel’s notepaper and in
documents left behind by the Italian Consul at Barce-
lona, according to the universal practice of Consuls,
when he quitted that bitterly hostile city, which is
having another of its revolutions), and, in conjunction
with Hitler, is to “drop the pretence of non-inter-
vention and openly invade Spain in Coronation
Week.”
That sort of journalism doubtless delights the
Reds, but it is doing a great disservice to Australia.
Rules of War.
Reporting on Spain’s civil war—or one side of it —
the “Bilbao correspondent” of the London “Daily
Telegraph” has declared that “all the rules of warfare,
as previously understood, have been discarded.” This
will come as disquieting news to Messrs. Bung and
Rafferty.
Rule 1, which ensured that in no circumstances
were any of the rules infringed by your own side,
was the pattern of equity. With this rule operating
only the other side could commit “atrocities.” If it
has been discarded, we shall never again have the
pleasure of reading the “S. M. Herald’s” standard
leader on the subject.
Rule 1a ensured that the other side had no choice
but to wage war with “barbarous ferocity,” be guilty-
at every turn of “frightfulness” and “perpetrate
dastardly acts of violation.” Under this rule it was
“established” that “the hideous Huns” had committed
the “unspeakable frightfulness” of boiling down then-
dead in the, of course, well-authenticated “corpse
factory.” The corpses were turned into candles which
lit the “despoiled chateaus” wherein, amidst once-
priceless Brussels tapestries and Turkish carpets,
“swinish Hun monsters” gorged themselves on Rheims
wines and pork sausages.
Unhappily, the “rules,” like all such rubbish
printed since the foul uses of propaganda were fully
appreciated in newspaper offices, have their basis in
fable. Instead of being, as represented, a chivalrous
general arrangement controlling the conduct of wars,
they are a purely imaginary, hypocritical conception
employed to give a romantic coloring to the most
realistically grim and filthy of all human aberrations.
By suggesting that there are such “rules” the
parlor-patriot notion that war is some sort of a game
is perpetuated. Nothing attracts youth like the idea
of a game; therefore the hypocrisy that there are
rules —with the greater hypocrisy that if there were
they could be enforced in war —is kept alive by those
who get satisfaction from suggesting, on the slightest
pretext, that here is an opportunity for the youth of
the nation to go out and “prove itself” —go out, that
is, and die in the most hideous manner conceivable.
There are no “rules of warfare.” War has no-
thing so fine about it. It is a filthy and degrading
business, without a solitary merit. And it is utterly
uncontrollable. When war starts, there are no “rules.”
There is no limit. The lid is off.
Because there are no possible means of compari-
son, it is difficult to convey the actuality of war to
any who have not personally experienced it.. There
is nothing in the most horrible aspects of civilian life
that can be thought of which resembles its absolute
hideousness. A man who went through such an
example of it as the Passchendaele fighting plumbed
such depths of horror that he lost the sense of ever
again being surprised. No foulness can ever happen
in his life but that he has known worse than it.
•Twenty years ago men who went through that
were among the pick of Australia’s manhood —hailed
at the time as among the finest that ever represented
any nation. The war did not end for them in 1918.
Every year now they are dying off in thousands. With
no war there would now be 20 more years of life
in nearly all of them.
Yet to-day there arc newspapers stupid enough
to talk “action” at the slightest pretext. They talked
it on behalf of the Abyssinian savages; they are
talking it again on behalf of one side in Spain’s civil
war. In this latter interest the British Navy is repeat-
edly asked to “take action.” The only charitable
view of these persistent askers —it is probably the
correct view—is that all that is criminal about them
is their stupidity.
They still believe in that fabulous covenant “the
rules of war.” Otherwise they could not be so shocked
at reports of the aerial bombing of a town as to
regard the aerial bombing of a town as something
extraordinary. Aerial bombings of towns —the sooner
this is grasped by parlor patriots the safer for every-
body—are merely a commonplace of modern warfare.
Sensationalism over the ordinary results of such bomb-
ings would be laughable if it were not one of the
readiest means of stampeding a people into the
shambles.
Even 20 years ago aerial bombings were an
accepted means of waging war. Ever since then
Britain’s defence measures have been taken with
future bombings of London as normally to be expected
—no more extraordinary than a barrage on a front
line. Not only bombings: in England, as in every
other European country, gas attacks on civilian popu-
lations are accepted as a certain occurrence in future
wars. Civilian populations have been trained for
years in accord with that acceptance. Talk about
the “frightfulness” of using gas goes on, but every
European country knows that it will be used, and
every European country is well prepared to use it.
In any war that those who talk “action” might
bring about civil populations will, for once, experi-
ence the utter obscenities of war hitherto reserved
for men herded into the front-line shambles. Then,
when newspaper writers, over-age deans, flag-flapping
women and parlor patriots of all kinds see each othei
gassed and mangled, there might be an end of wars.
The reason why the general peace of the world has
been held so long, despite screaming sensationalists,
warmongers and “action”-screechers, is that enough
people were sufficiently close to the last carnage to still
hold the balance of wisdom against any repetition.
An important point overlooked by the “action”-
screechers is that there is a huge body of people in
Australia directly set against war on any of the
screechers’ paltry pretexts. If Britain were to inter-
fere in Spain’s civil war, as it is persistently urged
to do, there would be no such rush to the colors as
happened in 1914. Instead, there would be a cleavage
of the people and a dominant opposition to the greater
war that would certainly follow. If the “action”-
screechers cannot see in that a serious danger to the
British Empire—a force for civilisation and world
peace in which the ideals impossible in a polyglot
collection of wranglers like the League of Nations
are the accepted and guiding practical politics—then
the screechers are even as stupid as they sound.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Gwydir for Scully.
The coalition Government has lost Gwydir (N.S.W.j
to the Labor Opposition ; and it will lose the general
election if it doesn’t look out. It will go down for
a certainty if it fails to realise swiftly that people
have no use for the frame of mind, methods and
manners exhibited in such Ministerial performances
as the Abbott appointment, the trade wars, the book
ban, the Mrs. Freer case, the flying-boat business, the
military aeroplane contract, the marketing referen-
dum, the insulting sequel when the electors refused
to be bluffed or scared into giving up inter-State free-
trade—-“they are really too ignorant to be trusted to
vote on constitutional questions”—and the offensive
pretence that the necessities of Australia require a
flock of Ministers and departmental bosses to be
abroad for long periods every year.
The vote in Gwydir was a vote against all those
things. That the majority was greater than the most
sanguine Labor election worker had anticipated may
be attributed in part to the resentment of Gwydir
graziers at their having been forced to share the risks
and abide the result of a dangerous quarrel,
entered upon in a reckless attempt to gain the Lord
knows what. It was unfortunate for the Country-
party candidates that they had to champion what
former supporters of the party regarded as a betrayal
of Australia’s greatest industry, and they suffered
accordingly; one will lose his deposit.
Balm for the outraged feelings of graziers was
offered by Mr. Stevens in the form of a £10,000,000
water-supply scheme, of which Gwydir was to get
the biggest whack. He should now be convinced, if
he is open to conviction in these matters, that the
“gimme” spirit is not so universal as U.A.P. head-
quarters supposed.
There is food for reflection on the part of tax-
payers in the fact that eighty (80) politicians took
part in the campaign. Mr. Curtin seems to have
made the greatest impression, but he will be expected
to live up to his declaration —as also, of course, will
Mr. Scully—that his party is independent of any
State A.L.P. executive. This is everywhere construed
to mean that he will brook no interference from Mr,
Lang. Time and circumstances are on his side, for
Mr. Lang is pretty old as Labor leaders go, and he
has been no Stormalong John since his late helping
of humble pie.
Our Tropic Mainstay.
The International Sugar Conference in London has
confirmed the warning given to a short-sighted section
of Queensland growers by Premier Forgan Smith —
that they must rationalise the industry in the face
of a rapidly-approaching world-market saturation.
None the less, they have ample reason to be satisfied,
seeing that their export quota has been fixed at
400,000 long tons.
It means, of course, that the Queensland industry
will have to keep production within present limits
until there is a definite rise in world consumption.
There will be growling, perhaps attempts at evasion,
but Mr. Forgan Smith has warned objectors that he
will stand no nonsense. He is fully prepared to take
away, if necessary, the special privileges which his
Government has granted to growers in vital aspects
of their business.
Meanwhile, the establishment of a permanent
sugar secretariat will ensure central co-ordination,
with preferential consideration to Empire production
in the world’s only open sugar market, which is
London. Housewives and commercial sugar-users in
southern States may growl at prices, but the fact is
that these are the principal, almost the only, factors
which maintain a large and prosperous white Aus-
tralian population in our tropics.
Woo! and the Future.
The 1937 wool season has ended, save for an odd
clearing-up sale. The results savor of a miracle when
all the circumstances are taken into account.
Wool sold in Australia and abroad brought over
£61,000,000 Australian. Prices for “greasy” and
“scoured” together were around 16.8 d. per pound—
around 2d. more than last year’s average, and 6d.
more than in 1934-35. The monthly average for
“greasy,” 12.4 d. in September, went to 17.5 d. in April.
Crossbred wools showed greater world increases
in price than the better qualities. When the Japanese
were not buying merino in Australia they were buying
merino and crossbred at high prices elsewhere. Cross-
bred prices, too, were affected by armament policies.
When the Japanese returned to the Australian
market they bought substantially, not only at auction,
but from speculators who had been gambling on the
probability—knowing what politicians are —that Mr.
Lyons and Mr. Gullett would climb down. But it
was clear that Japanese bidding, very heavy for a
few weeks, was due mainly to Nippon’s need for
specialised merino lines. And the once-familiar spec-
tacle of inexperienced Asian buyers paying fancy
prices for inferior lots was not once seen. The
Japanese have evidently discovered that by spreading
purchases they can raise the manufacturing quality of
their wool without any devastating financial sacrifice.
Australia in future will have to go after Japanese
business with better types of fleece than those hitherto
regarded as suitable for Japanese purposes. Winch-
combe Carsons, in their annual review, write:
Japan purchased freely in Argentina and N.Z., where
its operations had previously been negligible. It is prob-
able that, to retain the benefits of reciprocal trade which
resulted, it will continue to buy fairly freely in S.
America and N.Z., also merinos in S. Africa.
And Maoriland, S. Africa and Argentina, which
had always taken it for granted that Australia was
king of the castle in the Japanese trade, may be
encouraged to stretch the leg which they have got
into the business, and, by building up quantity and
quality, give the Commonwealth an even harder run
for its money than they could do this year when their
output was merely normal.
Meanwhile, the statistical position of wool for
the coming season is all that could be hoped for.
Carry-over, negligible in Australia, will be no
more than, 250,000 bales throughout the world.
Stocks in all the leading manufacturing countries are
smaller than at the end of last year. Wool needs are
expanding faster than production, though wool is
being put into manufacture more quickly than for
many years. The ironing-out of currency complica-
tions in Europe has helped the trade.
Australian wool men need have no immediate
worry, especially as Japan has contracted to buy
533,000 bales in 1937-38. But the prospect of new
competition will have to be reckoned with, and there
is some danger in the tendency of a school of growers
to desert the merino because of the prices crossbreds
have been fetching and the growing mutton trade. The
tempting crossbred market is an emergency market.
The Australian industry’s best bet in the long run is
to improve merino numbers and merino quality and
merino yields. The merino is an asset in which other
countries cannot compete with us on a large scale,
try as they will.
Fun and Mrs. Grundy.
With great wariness, the High Panjandrums of the
Customs censorship are considering whether they will
or won’t allow into Australia copies of Brave New
World, by Aldous Huxley, and Farewell to Arms,
by Ernest Hemingway.
Mr. Huxley is a member of an eminent British
family. He went to Eton and Balliol College, Oxford,
and was schooled in the chilly proprieties of jour-
nalism on the old “Athenaeum” and the “Westminster
Gazette.” Then he wrote a number of books. They
earned him election to the Athenaeum, a club to which
bishops go to drink pure moral air, and in which
an improper story would be as rare as is the truth
about the Spanish civil war in a flapper newspaper.
Huxley’s Brave New World is sold in every
country in which English is read, except Australia.
It was sold in Australia during the year in which
it was issued (1932), but the censor heard about it
and banned it, presumably because it envisioned the
possibility of babies being born in bottles. Now,
after five years, the censor seems to have decided
that babies born in bottles are not so bad after all.
Perhaps it has occurred to somebody in the Govern-
ment that bottles can’t collect maternity bonuses.
Mr. Hemingway is in a somewhat different cate-
gory from Mr. Huxley. He is an American, and his
biography in Who’s Who admits that one of his
recreations is “drinking”; he doesn’t say what he
drinks, but a censor can always be depended on to
think the worst.
Exactly why these two books have been selected
for release is just as much a mystery as why they
were banned. A dozen others on the Canberra index
are certainly not more likely to encourage improper
thoughts, and some of them have the merit of having
been written by Australians. Red heap, for example,
which —the title having been altered—has been banned
twice.
Post Office Sweating.
The Post Office is the most profitable publicly-owned
institution in Australia. It makes its profits by
keeping its charges far above the rates which the
people pay in any other country; for example, it
costs more to send a letter across the street in Sydney
than to send one by air from London to Cape Town.
Last year’s profit was £2,340,000. The Budget
forecast an increase to £2,469,000, much of which will
be gobbled by the Treasury.
Before the gobbling takes place, the Minister
might well have a look at his pay-lists in the light
of remarks by Judge Neild at Singleton (N.S.W.)
Quarter Sessions.
The Judge had before him a young postmaster
from Gundy, a little town in a rich district. A lot
of money passed through the postmaster’s hands.
His salary was £145 a year, and he had a wife and
two children to keep. To foot his champagne and
caviare bills or something, he borrowed money, and,
being pressed, stole £2lB from the Post Office.
The Judge said that to expect a man to handle
heaps of money and be above temptation was asking
too much of human nature if he were not paid a
living wage. Sentence suspended, conditionally on
accused behaving himself.
The G.P.O. gives its permanent head the second-
highest Commonwealth salary—£4ooo p.a. It has
more officers receiving over £lOOO p.a. than any other
department, State or Federal. But its standards of
payment to its junior officials are miserable. Post-
men, whose work is an all-weather job, and who
have to be trusted with large quantities of the public’s
money, as well as with oceans of confidential docu-
ments, show a remarkable record of honesty on an
average of £225 a year.
It would take less than £lOO,OOO a year to send
the postman’s wage up £1 a week. And the average
wage of all the postmasters in the country could be
put up £lOO a year for £112,000.
Cancer Is Curable.
A recent analysis by the Commonwealth Health
Department of 21,455 cases of cancer which occurred
in Australia between 1928 and 1936 brings out two
salient facts which should be hammered into the
mentality of every citizen. First, prompt treatment
while the disease is still localised effects a permanent
cure in the great majority of cases; second, neglect
to obtain treatment until it is advanced means death
almost certainly.
Rodent ulcer, taken early, showed 5 p.c. deaths, 79
p.c. cures and 11 p.c. hopeful improvement; taken
late, it produced 45 p.c. deaths and only 22 p.c. cures.
For early carcinoma 68 p.c. of cures was obtained ;
in advanced cases only 7 p.c. Early sarcoma yielded
53 p.c. cures, in the later stages only 12 p.c.
Any persisting sore or lump, particularly in persons
over 40, should receive the earliest possible medical
attention. There is no need for fear of the knife—the
Commonwealth’s £lOO,OOO radium stock attends to
the curative side.
Scotching a Canberra Silence.
According to the protesting Victorian Government,
Canberra has every intention of scrapping the Taxa-
tion Board of Review for an appellate tribunal con-
sisting of a single High Court Judge, who will decide
appeals against State as well as Commonwealth
assessments. An interesting development is the atti-
tude adoped by Attorney-General Menzies, who
declares that the State Government “had no right to
publish preliminary communications between Govern-
ments.”
The Victorian announcement certainly beat the
Canberra gun ; but Canberra is notoriously chary of
taking Australia into its confidence. Judging by the
Melbourne protests of Mr. Menzies, the people were
to have been left in the dark, as they still are in the
case of Mrs. Freer, until it was too late for protest.
The Taxation Board of Review has operated for
15 years. Its lack of formality has encouraged poor
people to seek what they believe to be justice on taxa-
tion assessments that look wrong. They have not
necessarily been faced with the expense of briefing
counsel or the possibility of being ordered to pay
Crown costs of unsuccessful appeals. The proposed
tribunal has been recommended to Canberra by the
Royal Commission on Taxation ; but, as the Victorian
Government has shown, the board itself was recom-
mended by a royal commission. It has dealt with
many more appeals than such as have gone to Supreme
and Full and High and Full High Courts.
The Victorian disclosure, in spite of Mr. Menzies’s
complaints, gives State organisations time to have a
word with their Federal representatives, and Canberra
a belated chance of keeping in tune with the people
it represents.
"She Was a Coffin Ship."
The history of the little ships that trade in Australian
coastal waters contains tragic and heroic chapters.
Of recent years there have been wrecks in which
scores of mariners have lost their lives, and some
were clearly preventible.
To the latter category must be assigned the loss
of the Annie M. Miller, with six hands, in 1929, and
that of the Christina Fraser, with 17 hands, in 1933.
They were owned by the same concern, and neither
carried wireless. At the inquiry it was shown that
the Annie M. Miller had left Bulli bound for Sydney
with “a decided list to port,” the result of “improper”
loading, but nobody was blamed. She went down
a mile off Sydney Heads.
After many months of negotiation with the
authorities who share the control of navigation and
with the union, provision of wireless was made obliga-
tory on owners of small craft. Then Parliaments and
departments went to sleep again. Possibly—there is
no certainty about it —the remarks of Judge Curlewis
at the inquiry into the sinking of the Hall Caine,
213 tons, will arouse them from their slumbers.
The Hall Caine left Sydney for Lake Macquarie
in light trim on the morning of March 17. An hour
out from Sydney the engineer reported that she was
leaking, and in the afternoon she was in such a bad
way that only the advent of another steamer with a
line prevented one more ship’s company going to David
Jones. As it was, with the crew safe aboard the other
craft, she foundered in a calm sea. On March 15
she had set out from Sydney, but “labored and
strained so badly” that the master turned her head
round and got back to port.
The evidence showed that the Hall Caine was
a wooden ship, 25 years old. There were borers
in her, but it was explained that “planks had been
replaced from time to time with turpentine planks.”
This particular evidence moved Judge Curlewis to
say that she was a “thoroughly patchwork” job ; but
that was not all.
The boilers were imperfect; the pumps were im-
' perfect; the hulj was imperfect. The reasons why the
ship sank were that the hull was rotten; the hand-
pump was in bad order and not properly fitted with a
strainer; the other pumps could not be worked because
the boiler could not supply them with steam and the
engines were not fitted with governors to stop racing.
The ship should not have gone to sea; she was a
coffin ship.
But, presumably, in the jargon employed by
coroners’ juries, “no blame” will be “attachable to
anyone.” There are a State Department of Navi-
gation and a Commonwealth Department of Navi-
gation, and between them and the Parliaments from
which they derive their powers and the union, which
has been distracted by internal quarrels for 20 years,
inertia prevails. If the issue were fairly put to
them, the people would soon make an end of the
chaos of divided control and throw their weight behind
a Commonwealth measure designed to protect all
seamen and passengers who put out to sea in Aus-
tralian ships, however small, and whether they are
intra- or inter-State. But although Australia supports
a multitude of politicians it is singularly lacking in
pertinacious representatives who concentrate on neces-
sary things till necessary things are done.


Society
“Tuart”: The old Australian custom
of giving friends a lift is bound to de-
cline in popularity as a result of a
Supreme Court case heard in N.S.W. The
defendant was a motorist who, after a
game of golf with a party of friends at
Katoomba, set out to drive back to
Sydney. Travelling through Auburn,
Lang’s suburb, at 40 m.p.h. or so, the car
cannoned into a mob of cattle and the
owner-driver woke up in hospital, where
he stayed for weeks getting over concus-
sion. A passenger to whom he gave a
lift was killed. The widow and a daugh-
ter sued the owner-driver for £30,000
damages,, and called evidence to the effect
that their breadwinner —he was an ad-
vertising man, aged 43 —had made
nearly £BOOO a year for seven years
and £6OOO a year since 1933. De-
fendant pleaded that if he had had his
own way the party would have slept
at Katoomba overnight, and that it
was deceased who had induced him to
set out on the fatal night. The jury
found for the plaintiffs: damages, £3250
—£2500 for the widow and the rest for
the daughter. An appeal is pending, but
already there has been a notable falling-
off in “come-along-with-me” invitations,
and Transport Commissioners have never
been known to be. so cheerful. The
breakfast at which they read the report
of the judgment must have been the most
satisfying matutinal meal they have had
for years.
:Jc $ $
“A.H.”: More cable divergences:
By Divorce Court
proceedings lasting
only 25 seconds
Mrs. Simpson be-
came free to marry
the Duke of Wind-
sor. There were
only eight men and
two women in the
public gallery to
hear her decree pro-
nounced absolute.
— "Telegraph.”
Hundreds of people
formed a queue out-
side the Divorce
Court entrance, and
the building was
crowded when the
President took his
seat. Fifty seconds
sufficed to make
absolute 86 decrees
nisi, including that
of Mrs. Simpson.
~~"S. M. Herald
For an outlay of threepence you can have
it either way.
* * * *
“D.E.”: The destruction by fire of
Bon Accord, the Stewart Dawson guest-
house at Springwood (N.S.W.), is a re-
minder that Stewart Dawson ventures,
other than jewellers’ shops, have had
little, luck. The ballroom floor at Bon
Accord was a relic of the very late
Ambassadors, the Stewart Dawson jazz
joint in Pitt-street, Sydney; so were the
chandeliers. Hugh D. Mclntosh ran Bon
Accord for a time after he had been
clean bowled in his second innings as a
boxing promoter, and sold out for suf-
ficient to take him to London and open
the chain of milk bars with which he has
made another punch. Apropos, Mclntosh,
recognised in Sydney as skilled in the
knowledge, of pies, pugs and politicians,
is regarded in Britain as an authority on
the cow-farming industry, and is addicted
to solemn discourses and articles on
ways and means of restoring its old
vitality.
'!» -i- H*
“Tabua”: Prince Ratu Sukuna, the
Fijian potentate in London for the
Coronation, appealed to the Earl Marshal
for leave to wear the Fijian lava-lava in
lieu of trousers, to which he is unused.
Already he had been driven to sandals,
the pavement being too hard for his bare
feet. It is not recorded whether the per-
mission was granted, but there is no reason
why it should not have been. The lava-
lava, reaching to mid-calf, is much more
seemly and decent than the kilt which
those other reformed savages the Scot-
tish Highlanders, with their knubbly and
hairy knees, are so fond of flaunting in
public.
“Corona”: A curious effort was made
to abolish the coronation ceremony
when Queen Victoria was to be the cen-
tral figure therein. A certain Earl Fitz-
william started the movement, represent-
ing himself as “by no means certain that
“Wen soon ’ave 'er under control, mister, if we can find some Water!”
the exhibition of a youthful princess to
a staring populace was consistent with
female delicacy.” Incidentally, with
plenty of unemployment still about, it is
a little disquieting to read that the ex-
penditure on the present ceremony is to
exceed the combined amounts spent on
the coronations of Edward VII. and
George V. by over £lOO,OOO.
“Yarri”: The main business of the
moment in London recalls the coronation
of King Beaufort Dinah, whose town
extends from Southern Cross to Albany
(W.A.). The event occurred at Wagin,
with the assistance of the Mayor and
councillors, a brass band and a corro-
boree, and was attended by 600 residents.
The Mayor declared Beaufort king by
placing the plate-chain round his neck.
An address was also presented to “His
most excellent Majesty,” and set forth:
“May it please your Majesty—The muni-
cipality of Wagin respectfully offer their
felicitations on your Majesty’s succession
to the Ancient Throne of the Kingdom of
the Aborigines, and trust that your
Majesty may have a long and happy
reign.” This was signed by the Mayor
and town clerk, and the coronation con-
cluded with a free feed for all abos.
present.
“Fi. fa.”: Though the Archbishop of
Canterbury crowns both King and Queen,
his rival, the Archbishop of York, claims
to hold the older see, although the
younger archbishopric. One of his pre-
decessors crowned William the Con-
queror and his Queen. But Cosmo Can-
tuar is 95th in line of succession from
Augustine, created first Archbishop of
Canterbury 1336 years ago, after convert-
ing Ethelbert, King of Kent. The
squabble has lasted for 1300 years, re-
newed at nearly every Coronation until
that of Edward VII. The Court of
Claims then decided that to the Arch-
bishop of Canterbury belongs the un-
disputed right and privilege of crowning
the sovereign.
* * * *
“Vilo”: During his visit to Blenheim
(M.L.) the then Prince of Wales, who
is now Duke of Windsor, planted a
tree in the college grounds. After the
ceremony one of the speakers expressed
the hope that they would have the oppor-
tunity (“the sooner the better”) to plant
another tree alongside in honor of the
future sovereign’s consort. The other
day a member of the board of governors
of the college (incidentally, an M.L.C.)
expressed his wish to see this promise
carried out —in other words, that a tree
should be planted in honor of Mrs.
Simpson. The notion was received with
wry faces by his colleagues.
$ $ $ *
“Biscay”: The Basques, whom Lloyd
George recently claimed as ethnologi-
cally kin to his own countrymen the.
Welsh, are undoubtedly a very ancient
race. Tradition has it they once occu-
pied a great part of Spain and southern
France, but whence they came is hard
to say. They may be Celts, but there is
little resemblance in their language, said
to be spoken by close on a million people,
to any known tongue. According to one
authority
the Basque language cannot be classed with
any Indo-European or Semitic tongue, and
appears to be of earlier origin, presenting
some grammatical analogies with Mongol,
North American and certain East African
languages.
Philologists have noted that no genuine
Basque word begins with “r.” There is
little national literature worth speaking
of; no written Basque is known of any
earlier date than the 14th century.
* # * *
“X-Roundsman”: The freelance par.-
hound has been doing well in the English
press of late, what with Coronation in-
cidents and otherwise. Glancing over one
issue of a London daily I came across
the story of a lady of 71 who fell off a
bridge while feeding the ducks, and was
rescued by a lion-tamer who happened
to be passing. Apparently he didn’t
have his lions with him, but what a
romance for the old dame to tell over
the teacups to the curate! On the very
next page was the thrilling story of an
aged bicyclist who got his whiskers
tangled in the bike chain, and had to
crawl backwards for two miles, dragging
ihe bike, until he found a rescuer with a
knife to sever the chin-spinach withal.
The burglary of a haggis shop in Aber-
deen followed, but merely received a par.,
whereas the rescue of a cat from the top
of a wireless mast by the local fire
brigade got half a column.
“Oxmead”: Stanley Baldwin, Britain's
soon-to-retire Prime Minister, is mostly
pictured as an amiable old gentleman
with a pipe in his mouth and the breed-
ing of pigs as an off-time hobby, never
as an orator. And probably he never
was, but homeliness and sincerity have
before now proved more valued gifts
than rhetoric in the House of Commons.
In this regard consider a few sentences
from Baldwin’s tribute to his old col-
league Austen Chamberlain, which (ac-
cording to the “Times”) held a crowded
House hushed and spellbound. After a
reference to Chamberlain’s long life of
indefatigable public service came the
simple words:
He has left us. In the remote parts
of that countryside where I was born,
and where old English phrases linger, even
now I hear among old people this phrase:
“He has gone home.” It was a universal
phrase among the old farm laborers whose
life was one toil from their earliest days
to their last, and I think it must have
arisen from the sense that one day the
toil would be over and the rest would
come. So they say “He has gone home.”
No attempt at eloquence there, but some-
thing that goes straighter to the heart
than glittering periods.
* :J: H? *
“U. P. Percut”: The old argument,
boxing v. jiu-jitsu, is being revived in
Brisbane, with promises of public tests.
But the police would never stand a real
tryout. Once the jiu-jitsu man got the
boxer on the floor face down, the man
of punches would be lost, and unless the
boxer were himself skilled in jiu-jitsu he
would be there in short order. Legs and
feet do the main dirty work in that col-
lection of fouls, and the j.-j. combatant
would probably go into action either by
a flying dive at the knees from outside
hitting range or on his back with a
slide, to hook an ankle with one instep
and drive the sole of the other foot
against the knee, which can easily dis-
locate it. A good j.-j. practitioner is at
his most dangerous when on his back
with his legs up, and trying to hit him
when he is down in that position would
be a perilous proceeding, even if it were
allowed in boxing. Provided he sticks to
M.Q. rules no boxer has a ghost of a
hope against a really good jiu-jitsu artist.
“Greenhide”: Most of “Shep’s”
Diggers who were booked for having
one in a pub on Anzac Day (B. 5/5/’37)
probably were from the country. The
majority of the militia messes round
Sydney kept open all day Sunday, as
they were entitled to do, being situated
upon Federal Territory. The office was
passed round most units, with the result
that various battalion funds reaped a
small harvest from this bit of thoughtful-
ness.
* * * *
“Yangardook”: Touching on rattler-
jumping. An amateur conjuror friend
out of work in Adelaide, hearing that 1
was on gold at the back of Broken Hill,
got an easy free trip through. Entwin-
ing a few bits of awning, a flag and a
rope around himself he enjoyed undis-
turbed slumber, despite the fact that no
part of the train received more scrutiny.
The truck had been left behind by the
circus train the previous day, and bore a
notice in foot letters, “Lion Cage.”
IF WINTER COMES.
“ ‘A prelude to winter proper or, if you prefer it,
rum and milk weather,’ said Mr. Mares. A Sydney
hotel manager regarded the sudden brisk demand for
the beverage as ‘a sure sign that winter’s on the
way.’ ”
“If Winter comes” —their solace some may find
In the reflection Spring is hard behind,
And that her hounds in pertinacious packs
Will soon be on her predecessor’s tracks.
I have no quarrel with poetic gents
Who voice these optimistic sentiments,
But surely there are compensating things
For all the ills the frigid season brings.
Think of the trade our Bungs will do in rums
When Winter comes! .
If Winter comes —and in the atmosphere
There’s a suggestion that he’s mighty near —
You may be soon emerging from beneath
Your morning shower with slightly chattering
teeth;
But when you’re towelling upon the mat
Your frame will glow the healthier for that.
You’ll find in breakfast ham and eggs or fish
An incontestably ambrosial dish,
And nectar in your morning milks and rums
When Winter comes.
If Winter comes —as patently he must—
With storm and hail and sleet and stinging gust
There’ll be snug inglenooks for ageing souls
(Like me) o’ nights by blazing logs and coals,
Chestnuts mayhap upon the bars to poke,
Long pipes in infinite content to smoke.
What is there in verandahs cool and wide
To match the comfort of one’s own fireside?
Who wouldn’t gladly switch from beers to rums
When Winter comes?
If Winter comes —soon as I hope he does—
At least ’twill still the cursed skeeters’ buzz
And send the flies to whatsoever clime
It is they’re apt to seek in wintertime.
Old “Tom and Jerry,” that neglected twain
For months, will come into their own again;
And chaps who need preventatives or cures
Of coughs and colds, when someone asks
“Wot’s yours?”
Will take their pick of various brands of rums
When Winter comes.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Unity”: The manager of a large
suburban store thought he had caught
a shoplifter when he saw an elderly
woman pushing blouses, collars and
scarves on a bargain table into her capa-
cious shopping-bag. Taxed with theft,
she looked at him with an affable but
vacant smile ; then a young woman ar-
rived, and, remarking agitatedly that she
supposed Auntie had been at her tricks
again, seized the shopping-bag and re-
stored the contents to the table. She
then led Auntie away, after indicating
that the old lady was not responsible for
her goings-on. It left the manager
thoughtful. There had been something
particularly deft in Auntie’s performance,
and he had a feeling that her artless
manner was not genuine. A few weeks
later a relative employed in a big city
shop which was running an intensive
campaign against shoplifters mentioned
the capture of a dozen or more during
a sale, all of whom were to be prose-
cuted, except one old lady, who was
not responsible for such lapses. “And
that,” murmured the suburban manager
to himself, “would be Auntie.”
* * * *
“Louis M.”: The attempt to save
Macleay’s Elizabeth Bay House, Sydney,
for the nation is about 15 years too
late. The house might have been a thing
of beauty when set in its 50 acres of
grounds ; now it is a characterless stone
box, set in acres of treeless concrete road
and overwhelmed by factory-like flat
piles. Dangar Castle, a few yards away
in one direction, and Roslyn House, a
chain or two away in another, had far
“An' it was right here, folks, under this very tree, that romance first began.”
more character, and there were a few
roods of land round them, with trees,
Elizabeth Bay House is lovely inside, but
lt would cost a fortune to restore its sur-
roundings to a state worthy of the in-
tenor and 50 years to regrow the mur-
dered trees. Memorial buildings are
nothing without grounds to set them off.
“Mantua”: The waters of the Danube
might have been blue (B. 28/4/’37) in
Johann Gottlieb Strauss’s day (1867), but
there is evidence that they were Yarra-
like in color in Virgil’s time (70 b.c-
-19 b.c.). In the Georgies, Book 111, the
poet writes of the muddy Danube (tur-
bidus Ister).
“Hamer”: If the “Blue Danube” ever
had a lapse from popularity few people
noticed it. I can recall few dances or
parties which I have attended in 50
years where the lilting strain didn’t come
in somewhere. Yet the world came very
near to missing the masterpiece. Frau
Strauss, going through her husband’s
linen for the wash, saw some notes on
the wristband of a shirt; knowing her
husband’s habits, she took the garment
to him to know if the notes were any
good, and back to Strauss flooded the
forgotten inspiration that had come to
him as he walked along the river bank.
Millions of people may .well be thank-
ful for that temporary holdup of the
laundry-list.
* * * *
“P.W.”: “Medal” is not quite right in
his statement that the Victoria Cross is
granted only to military and naval
officers and men for bravery in action
(B. 28/4/’37). It was instituted with
that qualification in 1856, but it was
presently extended to civilians who had
borne arms against the Indian mutineers.
Hence a civilian, James Kavanagh, re-
ceived it after the relief of Lucknow.
Civilians (of either sex) serving under
naval or military authority “who in the
course of their duties may become sub-
ject to enemy action” are eligible for it
nowadays.
4* . 4*
“Morita”: Add this to the advertising
take-downs (B. 5/5/’37). A few years
back all the dwellers in our street, and
probably', all our district, found leaflets
in their letter-boxes advertising a book-
let for the womenfolk, specially instruc-
tive to young wives and near-wives. I
don’t know How many were sufficiently
interested to send in cash to the box
number, but one curious girleen who did
so received back the latest in cookery-
books!
“Oran”: In the days when women
considered curves fashionable a M.L.
paper printed a neat advertisement offer-
ing for a shilling to advise people “How
tc Get Fat.” The rush of letters was
astonishing. One and all received the
same reply, a small card on which was
printed “Buy it at the Butcher’s.” The
inventor of the scheme left for parts un-
known before he could be identified,
and, in any case, the police, after scratch-
ing their heads, were doubtful if any-
thing could be done about it.
* t- - - * *
“Notaden”: A couple more pearls,
one valued at £5, have been found in
Moreton Bay oysters. Such occasional
finds go back to Oxley’s day, and among
them have been a few gems of definite
value. The wide reefs on the inshore
side of the south end of Moreton Island
are the most hopeful field, mainly be-
cause some blacklip shell was laid down
there many years ago. A well-authenti-
cated Bay story tells of a pearl from
these which brought its finder over £2OO.
He kept the matter dark, in case the
income-tax bandits got after him. Tom
Welsby, doyen of Moreton Bay yachties,
has one valued at £25, from a flat species
of oyster called by the abos. “quampie,”
occasionally found on most of the shel-
tered reefs. The edible oyster produces
pearls, too, but scientists give the odds
against getting a sizable one as about
40.000,000 to 1. It seems a lot of
oysters to open for one pearl.
* * !.t *
“Jim Tamworth”: It was at a Diggers’
dinner on Anzac Day that I met “Nobby”
for the first time since our farewell jag
in Cairo. “Yes,” he said, “I’m married,
and I shan’t forget when the first nipper
“ If I let you take Cousin Molly to the pictures, George, will you promise
there'll be no holding hands?”
was christened. When Allenby told me
he could carry on the rest of the war on
his own I souvenired two bottles of water
to bring home. One got broken; the
other I handed to the old mater as a
bottle of dinkum water straight from the
Jordan. I got spliced soon after, and the
wife was set on christening our first with
the holy water. When the parson had
given him his name and drawn the sign
of the cross on his forehead, I had a
look, and there was the cross looking as
if it had been put on with white paint.
He had been branded with brine out of
the Dead Sea.
$ * * *
“Bull-ant Bill”: That Longreach bull-
dog (B. 28/4/’37) must have been a
youngster —up to 18 months they are
timid things, for all their
awe-inspiring fafade. I
knew a bull pup of 12
months whom his dis-
gusted owner disrated to
the stable for proven
cowardice in the face of
the enemy. Six months
later the bulldog’s owner
came across a large pile
of dogs in the main
street, and stopped to
watch the scrap. A
white - knotted tail
emerged, and there
slowly appeared the de-
graded coward, his fangs
well and truly sunk into
a big cattle-dog’s throat,
disregarding entirely the
rest of the pack that was
tearing him into strips,
and bent solely upon the
job in hand. When the
enemy went limp, he
cheerfully grabbed an-
other, evidently fully
prepared to go through
the lot. Rescued and
carried home by his
almost tearful proprietor,
he bled all over the
carpet, and, after repairs,
lived mostly on armchairs, with full per-
mission to slobber or snore wherever or
whenever he liked. But they're not
scientific fighters. The bull-terrier is the
genuine dog-scrapper.
* * * *
“James W.”: I quitted my seat in a
train to help a cobber who was travelling
with cattle, and left my coat with my
ticket in the pocket hanging in the car-
riage. I did a spell with the pole and then
climbed along to roost on a log on an-
other truck. At the next stop a frowsy old
codger climbed up alongside and cheer-
fully announced his intention of scoring
a week’s board at the next town. He was
duly pinched—and so was I, my heated
protests unheeded. Meanwhile my cobber
was scouring the train and station for
me. “A tall bloke with red hair?” said
a porter. “Yair. Hoboin’ it. There he
goes with the John.” My mate came
galloping after us with the evidence, my
coat, under his arm. The impromptu
court in the street finished as the loco,
whistled ; we legged it back in fine style
and scrambled aboard as the train moved
out.
Years ago thousands of
scrap-iron (winches and old anchors from
sailing-ships for the most part) were
dumped on Coode Island (Vic.) and
covered with silt pumped from the
Yarra during the construction of the
Coode Canal. With the price of scrap
rocketing as a result of world rearmament
the dump has acquired an unforeseen
value. A dock policeman drew the atten-
tion of the Harbor Trust to the fact when
he found a marine dealer cutting up a
three-ton anchor that had been dug out
of the mud. The man was fined £2O.
* H* # *
“Old Q.”: “Bromley” (B. 5/5/’37) re-
peats the tale that old George Lansbury
worked on the making of the Brisbane
Cricket Ground some time in the
’eighties. He is hardly to blame, for the
ancient George says so himself in his
memoirs in a passage eloquent of his
horror at finding that he had to work as
hard to earn a crust in Queensland as
in Britain. The Brisbane C.G., however,
was not begun until the mid-’nineties.
George’s job was on the cricket ground
at the Exhibition, as the Brisbane show-
ground is called. The oval is carved
out of a stony hillside, and George
would have had no trouble in raising a
sweat.
* * * *
“D.A.”: My nomination for the
brightest piece of lexicography of the
twentieth century:
CAT. Small domestic carnivorous quad-
ruped preying on mice, etc., persecuted by
dogs and credited with nine lives.
That’s from the Pocket Oxford Dic-
tionary (1934). I noticed it when look-
ing for “cat’s-whisker,” which wasn't
there.
* * * *
“The Hittite”: Quaint towns? Napier
(M.L.) must be unique in certain respects.
Nearly every building in the main city
is new and of the latest ’quake-proof
design. Flat rooftops and stumpy chim-
neys predominate ; ornamental parapets
are taboo. All wired services are under-
ground, and there is not a Verandah post
to lean against in any of the important
streets, the names of which are let into
the footpaths or the kerbs. Of the 50ft.
Norfolk Island pines which remain on
the Marine-parade a half-dozen are fes-
tooned, like giant Christmas-trees, with
colored lights from top to bottom branch.
With its green lawns, flowers, a gift
fountain playing colored jets, yellow con-
crete walls and broad paths the parade is
a rainbow-hued scene. Nature chips in
with long ocean rollers breaking on the
beach a few yards away, while in between
lumps of brickwork and masonry relics
of the old town lie scattered.
(Continued on page 50.)
LIKE NOTHING ON EARTH.
“Tfco Rev A R. Ebbs, of Manly, condemning the
vino- nf shorts on beaches, declares that some men
S nSS » «rth : without adequate cloth-
-311 g”
How oftentimes they jar upon the e y® .
Who face, too lightly clad, the ocean breeze.
Some lack the grace of hippopotami
And some the comeliness of chimpanzees.
He suffers by comparison with these
Beasts of the field, the chap of goodly girth
Who scorns the bathing garb of neck-to-
knees.
In short, he looks like nothing upon earth.
What though his frame in flaming youth might
as featured by Praxiteles,
The years that roll inexorably by
Have taken their inevitable fees
By startlingly perceptible degrees
Of all that manly symmetry is worth.
Alack! how many surfing devotees
In shorts resemble nothing else on earth!
Sartorial arts, employed judiciously,
Can soften down the lines of stout grandees
And, if they can’t conceal it, qualify
The hated “spread” increasing weight decrees.
But on the sands that fringe our Austral seas
Apparel’s scarcity and clobber’s dearth,
Epitomised in little more than Vs,
Make some men look like nothing upon earth.
Artists and aesthetes they alike displease
And move more thoughtless souls to ribald
mirth
And Parson Ebbs to biting homilies
Based on the bulging forms wherein he sees
No semblance unto anything on earth.
N.S.W.
IFORD.


:i^Ay
A
20/„rlf6
10/„5) d
19»
CIGARETTE
GENERATION
THE
TTPPED
My throat is grateful for
that extra touch of quality.
oim
Qatvi&nSeA
mmm.
CRAVENA
ARE MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS.
POLITICAL POINTS
Counting of votes in Gwydir may go
on for another week, but Monday’s pro-
gressive totals can’t be materially altered.
They were: Scully (Lab.), 21,968;
Batchelor, Milling and Moore (C.P.),
19,160. The “S. M. Herald” has backed
another loser.
Narcoonget, the “provisional title” of
the £10,000,000 “project” with which
Stevens tried to revive the drooping
spirits of coalitionists in Gwydir, proved
to have no magical property at the poll-
ing booths. Cynics have given it an-
other label —Napoo.
Extract from C. L. A. Abbott’s fare-
well to Gwydir:
I have found the people of Gwydir a
highly-intelligent body fully seized with the
problems which will always confront the
people on the land, and with a full sense
of their responsibilities as electors of Aus-
tralia. I know that they will continue to
exercise those responsibilities, and that the
welfare of Australia and themselves is en-
tirely safe with them.
As good wine needs no bush, so there
is some eulogy which needs no comment.
A Canberra correspondent reports that
the P.M. is very anxious to get a decora-
tion for Bruce, the Order of Merit pre-
ferred. Lyons would bespeak for him
all the stars and garters and crosses and
gold dragons in the universe if they could
keep the man 12,000 miles from Can-
berra.
Seemingly there have been objections
from “a certain quarter” to the color of
ihe green building raised in York-street,
Sydney, to the glory of the annual defici-
ency or something, and called Railway
House. The department is at pains to
mention that “each floor has tiled walls
of distinct colorings, ranging from green
to warm yellow.”
Another impediment to the long-
delayed flying-boat service has arisen.
E. J. Harrison, M.H.R., and a few local
aldermen have discovered that to estab-
lish the base in Rose Bay, Sydney, as
proposed, would spoil the scenery. There
is nothing unlovely about flying boats,
and, rising and descending, they would
mercifully interpose between strangers
coming up the harbor and hideous views
of Rose Bay flats and a cinema theatre.
Misfortune still pursues Germany,
which is hated so much by Great War
defeatists and quitters, writing men and
pert young Communists, though not by
the stout fellows who fought against it.
Explosions shook the airship Hindenburg
as she descended at Lakehurst, New
Jersey, with passengers from Europe, and
she landed a blazing wreck, 35 people
perishing, while 63 were fearfully burnt.
The horror would have been averted, it
seems, had the dirigible flown on helium
gas, which is non-inflammable, instead of
hydrogen; but Germany has no helium.
It shows how interdependent are the sons
of men.
The bosses of the biggest branch of
the biggest railwaymen’s union had a
conference in Sydney the other day. They
“regretted” the refusal of Federal Labor
to let Communists white-ant it; con-
gratulated Soviet Russia and recom-
mended that a delegate should be sent to
the Red Paradise —to be in Moscow, no
doubt, at the next great Red Army show
—and registered their undying opposi-
tion “to the rearmament policies of Bald-
win and Lyons.” They call their con-
cern the Australian Railways Union.
An essay in relative values is afforded
by two Commonwealth Government
advertisements. One is for a fisheurer at
£312 p.a., rising to £366 ; the other is for
a Fisheries Research student officer. He
is required to have a university degree
in science and post-graduate experience
in research work, preferably marine
zoology, and is to undergo a training
course in America. For the first year
he is offered £3OO, travelling exes, and
fees. Thereafter he must engage to serve
for three years at £4OO, rising to £440 —
a whole £74 more than the fisheurer will
be getting.
Premier Stevens was assured when he
visited Bradford that U.K. operators
would take all the wool the Japanese
didn’t buy. It was fortunate that Aus-
tralia was not obliged to rely on this
Bradford promise, for, while Canberra
was quarrelling with Tokio, U.K. pur-
chases did not increase to any material
extent. Shipments from N.S.W. to the
U.K. for nine months, July-April, were
only 351,000 bales, compared with
298,000 bales in the corresponding period
of 1935-36.
Apparently rendered desperate by the
prospect of defeat in Gwydir “S. M.
Herald,” in its last words to the electors,
implored them to remember that “the
Lyons-Page Government on coming into
“Order and progress, sensible policy of constructive development on a broad national
basis, practical and generous assistance to the fanner, all good, sound men, honest and
proved.”-“S. M. Herald" recommending the Ministerial ticket the morning before the
Gwydir by-election. “....Ministry has unquestionably made mistakes resented by many....
Freer case, tariff war with Japan, aviation policy... .deficiency in energy... .handing over
the Government to a bureaucracy immune from electoral chastisement.”—-Same paper, the
morning after.
“How dare you make me call you a dirty dog when I said you were as pure as
the driven snow !”
office provided a grant of £12,000,000,
free of interest, for the relief of farmers’
debts” (actually the grant dates from
1935, and only portion of it has been
paid), and that “altogether it has made
available some £32,000,000 for the help
of the man on the land, including
£14,000,000 for wheatgrowers.” This
is described as “practical and gener-
ous assistance.” No doubt the Greeks
had another name for the contemporary
equivalent. Our rude forefathers certainly
had.
In 1931 161,688 S.A. electors made
A. O. Badman a Senator. “About 240
members” of the Liberal and Country
League met in Adelaide the other day
to pick a Senate ticket, and afterwards the
public was informed that the ticket would
consist of the McLachlan who is P.M.G.,
Mcßride, M.H.R., and K. C. Wilson ;
“Senator Badman was not selected.”
Reasons for the omission were not given
to the surviving majority of the 161,688
electors. Nothing new in that, of course ;
it is now fashionable on both sides of
the political fence to blast a man’s poli-
tical career without a word of explana-
tion.
Victoria will get £82,600 and the Com-
monwealth £74,400 out of the estate of
A. M. Nicholas, the aspro man, who
left Victorian estate valued at £826,786,
all personal property. Where, as in this
case, there are a widow and children,
State death duty on an estate of that
magnitude is 10 p.c.; Canberra takes 10
p.c. of what is left. Nicholas could have
died a millionaire, but he had made
recent substantial settlements which were
taxed separately.
An effective eleventh-hour intervention
on the Labor side in Gwydir was made
by Gordon Wilkins, C.P. member for
Bathurst for three years, 1932-35, and
Cockies’ nominee for the Senate when
the 1935 vacancy occurred. In a speech
at Mudgee, Wilkins, a one-legged Digger
who had a farm and a garage, said
that he and his guarantor, a man of 80,
had come a financial thud because
Stevens-Bruxner’s 1932 amendment of the
Moratorium Act had deprived them of
protection previously given, and that the
bank had even got his pension. Martin,
the Minister of Justice, replied that
Wilkins could have availed himself of a
provision empowering the Court to con-
sider cases like his on their merits, and
that the sacrifice of his pension was
voluntary and had ceased. But local
sympathy was heavily on Wilkins’s side.
When not strafing Italy and Germany,
Sydney dailies are busy suggesting en-
tangling alliances to poor old Australia.
The “Herald” sees “in the increasingly
close co-operation between Britain and
Holland in defence matters” warrant for
the extension of the Amsterdam-Soura-
baya air service to Australia, and the
“D.T.” “welcomes the emergence of
Russia as a sea power” because “Russia
seems destined to co-operate with the
two great Anglo-Saxon democracies in
preserving peace in the Pacific.” The
“two great Anglo-Saxon democracies” are
Britain and Australia. The U.S.A. is
ruled out; “her naval centre of gravity
is shifting north towards the Behring
Sea”—to protect the North Pole, per-
haps.
Ceylon has been shaken to its foun-
dations by the intrigues of a cheeky
young agitator from England, who for
a time conferred his presence on
these parts. Found to be stirring up strife
among the Cingalese, he was sentenced
to deportation to Australia on an order
signed by the Governor. He went into
hiding, but reappeared when the State
Council voted the order unconstitutional,
and made a speech to the natives.
You, my friends, have black skins and.
white hearts. My countrymen have white
skins and black hearts.
Australia knows the type, and it is un-
pleasantly common in England. Judging
by the space devoted to its ravings in the
House of Commons and elsewhere, some
newspaper correspondents find it heroic.
Another May Day effort, this time by
our vSpecial Representative (Associated
Press): —-
A steamer is to come up via the Volga
and tie up at Moscow. About 200,000
men have been working since 1933 on the
ship canal. The mass of the labor army
was composed of convicts.
The population of European Russia at
the last census was 132,500,000. That of
Australia was 6,807,000. The number
of prisoners in Australian gaols at the
end of the latest recorded year (1934)
was 3633. But, then, this is a capitalistic
country.
Minister McLachlan has been telling
the C.S. and I.R. that Australia’s fisheries
will some day employ 50,000 men and
yield £20,000,000 yearly. The only things
in the way—the Minister seems to have
overlooked them—are little matters like
charging the fishermen road tax on the
petrol they use at sea, the interdict on
canned Australian fish as R.A.N. diet,
almost nominal duties on imported fish,
absence of any attempt to put the in-
dustry on the same basis as, say, butter
or fruit, and repeated refusal of any
assistance towards shelter-havens and
breakwaters.
Once a politician always a politician.
Dr. Nott, who beat Theodore in Her-
bert (Q.) 12 years ago and lost the. seat
to the present incumbent, Martens, settled
in Canberra, where he has distinguished
himself by rocking it into the administra-
tion of the Community Hospital, of
which he was superintendent. He was
nominated as locum on the board by a
lady member now overseas. The other
members refused to have him, ami
Hughes, who is Minister of Health,
backed them up. For this the doctor
gave the Minister beans. The Minister
retaliated with the contents of an entire
market garden, as it were.
Billy comes back:
W. M. Hughes showed flashes of his old
form last week. The disclosure that a banker
had been stupid enough to accept Gordon
Wilkins’s military pension in part-payment of
a debt set the veteran rummaging among the
records, and he thereupon announced that the
bank concerned was the Commercial, the
amount £l6l and the transaction illegal on both
sides. Turning on Dr. Nott, who had had a
go at him at Canberra, Billy dryly said that
“the state of Dr. Nott’s emotions can scarcely
be regarded as a helpful contribution towards
the peaceful settlement of his trouble with a
hospital board which has done its work well.”
People like to see the old man hitting out,
and going to a public meeting at Campsie alter
these exertions he was given a reception that
must have recalled to him his tumultuous Little
Digger days.
[Any election matter requiring a signature
is signed by J. E. Webb and Cecil Mann, 252
George-street North, Sydney.]


AUSTRALIA WILL BE THERE.


The Richardson Chain Hotel
df
THE
HOTEL
LONDON
99 Elizabeth St.,
(next Collins St.)
Melbourne
Hot and Cold
Water s Telephone
and Central Heat-
ing, Reading Lamp
to Every Bedroom.
MELBOURNE'S MOST
CENTRAL HOTEL.
RATES PER DAY.
Room and Meals .... from 12/6
Room and Breakfast... from 7/6
Safe and Profitable—
A CATHOLIC POLICY
• Old age or untimely death terminates a man’s earning-power, but matures
the life policy.
• Think of your dependants, and the time when YOU will be dependent.
With a Catholic whole-life or endowment contract you can’t go wrong.
Your premiums earn bonuses, which accumulate as the policy matures.
• Take out a Catholic policy and you have a front-rank investment. The
office directs attention to “The Bulletin’s” criticism (10/l/’34). Policy-
holders get 90 p.c. of the profits.
Australasian
CATHOLIC Assurance
CO., LTD.,
Head Office: Corner King and York Streets, Sydney.
E. J. Mooney, Managing Director.
P. J. Ryan, Secretary.
Branch Offices:
VICTORIA: 475 Collins Street, Melbourne; C. A. Adams, Resident Secretary.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: 29 King William Street, Adelaide; F. C. Lock, Resident Secretary.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Warwick House, St. George’s Tenace, Perth; F. J. Smith,
Resident Secretary.
The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1860.
Head Office: ADSL AIDS, SOJfii AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, VV.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Capital Authorised .. ..£1,250,000
Capital Issued .. .. 1,250,000
Capita] Paid Up £1,250,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. . . 1,000,000
(Used partly in business and partly
in Government and approved
Securities.)
Reserve Liability of Shareholders ..£1,250,000
Also 106 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.3.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad
collected and proceeds remitted. All usual
banking business transacted.
PERSONAL ITEMS!
Bill Scully, wihner of the Gwydir by-
election, hails from Tamworth, and first
got his place in public life through the
resignation of his brother Pat, who, with
Walter Wearne and Frank Chaffey, was
returned under the proportional system
for Namoi State seat in 1920. Bill held
the seat from 1923 till 1932, when the
Langs! ide took place and Colin Sinclair,
of the C.P., defeated him. Never a big
noise in Parliament, Scully seemed to be
more interested in coursing, for which he
was always in demand as a judge.
R. M. Campbell’s father kept the
smithy at Cobbity (N.S.W.) when
draught-horses and four-wheel buggies
were more frequent than polo-ponies
around that part; R.M. drifted to Queens-
land as a young fellow and got a job
with the Federal Deposit Bank. When
that perfectly*-solvent institution sus-
R. M. CAMPBELL.
pended in 1931 to protect its assets
Campbell was manager, and was included
among the assets when the Brisbane Per-
manent Building Co. took them over.
F. W. G. Annand, manager of the Per-
manent Co., went into politics recently,
and Campbell took his place.
Gordon Wilkins, who in the last week
of the campaign threw the bombshell
that put the result of the Gwydir by-
election beyond doubt, was returned for
Bathurst (State) seat as a Unity candi-
date, jointly run by the U.A.P. and
U.C.P., in 1932. Hugh Spring, of
Mudgee, was the only other candidate
supported in like circumstances at that
election, and both were defeated by
Labor in 1935. After his election Wil-
kins elected to sit and vote with the
C.P., much to the annoyance of the
U.A.P. In the Senate by-election, after
the death of Lionel Courtenay, won by
Arkins, Wilkins received a block vote
from the C.P. and ran second. Aggrieved
at his treatment by a bank, he took the
stump for Labor in Gwydir and provided
the sensation of the election.
Archbishops Mannix (Melbourne),
Duhig (Brisbane), Killian (Adelaide) and
Sheehan (Sydney) and nine bishops were
present at St. Mary’s Basilica, Sydney, to
see the Rev. Dr. Julian Q. Simonds, for-
merly rector of St. Columba’s College,
Springwood (N.S.W.), consecrated as
Archbishop of Hobart by the Apostolic
Delegate, Archbishop Panico. Arch-
bishop Simonds, born at Deepwater on
the New England tableland (N.S.W.), is
the son of a State school-teacher, and
attended Sydney High School, finishing
at the University of Louvain.
The will of “Aspro” Alfred Nicholas
shows that his Victorian assets were
worth £828,786, and this was but part
of his fortune. Nicholas, who started as
a country grocer’s boy and became an
indent agent in Flinders-street, owed his
success to a decision of Billy Hughes.
During the war, aspirin, a German
patent, became unobtainable, and Hughes
offered an exclusive license to anyone
who could discover the secret of making
it. Alfred’s brother George, a chemist,
and H. W. Smith discovered the formula
and brought in Alfred to manage the
financial end of the business. The com-
pany now has factories in various parts
of the world. The Nicholas brothers,
sons of a Cornish miner who migrated
to Australia, have given over £500,000 to
education, charity and the Methodist
Church.
“1.D.”: Geoffrey Dennis, whose Coro-
nation Commentary was a best-seller
until Edward’s writ stopped it (B.
5/5/’37), gained the Hawthornden prize
with The End of the World in 1931, but
it was not successful. His most popular
novel, Bloody Mary's, a biting study of
school life, sold about 4000 copies. At
Dennis’s home in Geneva I was shown
a small notebook filled with incredibly
neat and minute handwriting. It was
the original manuscript of Christina Ros-
setti’s The Goblin Market. Mrs. Dennis
is the last survivor of the Rossetti family,
and in her home there are many Rossetti
relics. Dennis hopes one day to have
the sofa which E. J. Trelawney gave to
W. M. Rossetti. “Shelley slept on it the
night before he died,” he explained, “and
I proposed to my wife on it, so you see
we want it for sentimental reasons.”
Dennis is 45, tall, grey-headed, and a
good, sharp-tongued talker. He will
curse the irony that has made an occa-
sional work like Coronation Commentary
do more for his name than a string of
novels.
Died suddenly in Sydney the other day
Bulletin illustrator George Brown. He
had been in the office a few days before,
pleased with the fact that, before the
entries were judged, he did the drawings
for both first and second prize-winners
in the recent short-story competition. A
Digger, he was 47 at the finish.
Sydney journalists have farewelled
Tom Spencer, who is retiring from
N.S.W. “Hansard” staff and is off to Eng-
land to see his doctor son, Stanley. Tom
has had executive association with the
A.J.A., the Institute of Journalists and
the Journalists’ Benevolent Fund for a
quarter of a century. He is a son of T.
E. Spencer, the jingler whose “How Mac-
dougall Topped the Score” was a favorite
recitation piece when Tom was a boy.
Harry Davies (“Wot’s Fresh” Davies
they used to call him from his openirg
gambit to mine managers in the old
Golden Mile days) strayed into The
Bulletin office last week on the way to
an all-the-world tour. Nobody who
knows Harry will grudge him his holi-
day. Barring Alf Carson, he is the
doyen of Westralian pressmen. He
started with Vosper when the old “Sun-
day Times” was young, but for close on
40 years he has been on the “West Aus-
tralian” staff.
Dr. Norman Haire, who has been
lecturing England on the disastrous
decline of the birthrate, is a Sydney
native and the youngest of a family of
11. First a Fort-street schoolboy, he
graduated at Sydney Uni. and then
walked the floor of Sydney Hospital.
After a few years in Brisbane Children’s
Hospital he returned to Sydney to take
up positions which included that of chief
medical officer of the Royal Hospital for
Women. It was his experience there that
led him to specialise in the problem of
better babies. After a brief term as
medical superintendent at Newcastle
(N.S.W.) he went in 1919 to London, and
two years later founded the first birth-
control clinic, where medical advice was
given to those who needed it. Now 45,
he is unmarried.
There are more schools, State and
private, at Armidale (N.S.W.) than at
any other town of its size in the Com-
monwealth, and it is likely to have an
addition to its number if the offer of
T. R. Forster, of Abington station, is
accepted. He undertakes to purchase the
White homestead of Booloominbah, a
£30,000 property, for a university col-
lege on condition that £lO,OOO is collected
as endowment.
The Public Service Association
(N.S.W.), the largest group of employees
in the State, should get much legal
advice without fees now that George
Weir has been induced to take the presi-
dential chair. He entered the Crown
Solicitor’s office as clerk at 17 (he is now
Public Service President.
34) and served for a term in the Publie
Trust office before he went to the pro-
bate branch. He graduated L.L.B. with
honors at Sydney Um. when 23.
J. C. Meakins, head of the medical
faculty at McGill University, Montreal,
is visiting Australia to lecture at the in-
vitation of Sydney University and the
N.S.W. Post-graduate Medical Com-
mittee. Meakins is one of the few “over-
seas” men who have been made honorary
LL.Ds. of Edinburgh University. He
has been president both of the Canadian
Medical Society and of the American
College of Physicians.
W.J. BRADLEY, K.C.
The John Siddeley who has given
£lOO,OOO to the Fairbridge Farm Schools
as a Coronation gesture is the Siddeley
of Armstrong-Siddeley motors. He also
has strong interests in aircraft, being a
director of Armstrong-Whitworth and
the Avro companies. He was knighted
five years ago. The first Fairbridge farm
was established at Pinjarra (W.A.), and
another is being got ready at Molong
(N.S.W.). The latter will probably come
in for some of the £lOO,OOO.
Roy Gollan’s appointment as Austra-
lian National Travel Association rep. in
India takes him back to an old love.
After the “Morning Post” died in Mel-
bourne, he was a Vic. Railways publicity
man, but returned to journalism to do
the early organising for the Melbourne
“Argus’s” 1933 venture into the evening
newspaper field. Managing-editor of the
“Star” for about six months, he shifted
to the firm’s managerial side when J. C.
Waters became editor. He was with the
“Argus” when the A.N.T.A. advertised
its Indian plum some weeks ago, and
Harold Clapp, his old railway boss and
chairman of the A.N.T.A., announced
his success from 300 applicants. Gollan
was a trooper with the Bth Light Horse
early in the last bother, and finished up
as brigade major of the 15th Battalion
with D.S.O. and M.C.
“Queenslander” farewells a friend:
His death scarcely noticed, J. C. Lincdale,
who has passed over in Townsville (Q.), was
one of the best-known mining officials in
Queensland from 1890 to the outbreak of war.
Warden and P.M. at Mt. Morgan and Charters
Towers, and in charge of Cloncurry during
the pre-war boom in copper mines, he had
brains and courage and tact when they were
needed. My best picture of him was on the
Dee rush in 1903. The rush had broken out
the week before, and 3000 men were on the
field, many of them the wildest of the wild.
The beer was strong and tempers over claim-
jumping were high. Linedale arrived at the
height of the storm —a small, mild, spectacled
person on a horse much too big for him —and
proceeded to play Solomon. Came two huge
disputants, one of whom did not like the medi-
cine which was served out to him. Towering
over the small Warden, he shouted, “I’ll murder
you, you yob!” Linedale twinkled through his
glasses: “I’ll fight you,” he said courteously,
“when I’ve finished this job to-morrow morn-
ing, with: axes in the dark at the bottom of
a shaft. But just now I have no time to be
murdered. Next case.”


TTJS *r
ph n iio tn
i
,v
sP ed* L t
m
m
-s v LOaetne
The Ardath “LAUBE” box is
a clever touch—the smartest,
most intriguing package ever
invented!
n
Ardath Specials—an entirely new blend
are the finest cigarettes ever to be asso-
ciated with the name of Ardath —long
famous in England for quality.
DAT
#
VIRGINIA
CIGAR E T T E S
10 FOR NINEPENCE: 20 FOR ONE & SIX
Also Flat and Round 50’s, and 100’s Boxes
5648 C-5-7


BLACK & WHITE WHISKY “PLURRY GOOD!”
“Dungeness”: Clermont (Q.) has been
obliged to summon the assistance of the
police for protection against a desperado
of foreign descent who has been terroris-
ing the town. The worst part about the
affair is that he was actually introduced
to the hitherto peaceful hamlet by the
shire council. A Saanen billygoat, hail-
ing from Oorindi station in the Clon-
curry district, he was bought for eugenic
purposes designed towards improving the
milking qualities of the local dairy-main-
stays. Instead of attending strictly to
business, he assumed a devil-may-care
attitude from the start, bailed up several
citizens, butted the ranger and generally
defied law and order. His sentence was
one of exile to Blair Athol, presumably
in acknowledgment of the superior goat-
mastering qualities of the local Welsh
mining population. No goat will ever
master a Welshman,-however lordly they
may behave among Oswald Pryor's
Cornishmen.
& * * *
“Bogaduck”: Ever notice the poor
situations chosen for many bush homes?
You can see them stuck up on hilltops,
swept by all the winds that blow, in the
centre of open flats, with never a tree
for shelter within half a mile, or on low
flats beside creeks, with a good flood
prospect. When portion of a big station
in S.A. was cut up four of the new
settlers built right out on the flat coun-
try, despite local warnings and the fact
that each block was surveyed to give a
good home site on the slope of a low
range. In a normal winter those people
will be able to shoot wild ducks from
their windows. One settler of longer
standing who made the same mis-
take has to garage his car three miles
from the homestead and complete the
journey by horse. Those who know the
district always warn such newcomers that
what hereabouts is rock-hard ground in
summer changes to a cross between glue
and porridge in winter, soft enough to
bog a snake ; but the newcomers won't
believe it.
* * ❖ *
“Pinjarrah”: Speaking of Daves and
Kates with their plain bush weddings re-
calls a Groperland linking that I
attended. Nothing had been spared, and
consequently Granfer was well oiled
when he rose to respond. “In my days
when me an’ yer granma wus switched
we didn’t have no motor-cars with
ribbons, nor no confetti, nor no saxo-
phones, nor jazz. We did without all
that —in fact, now that I come to look
back I’m not too sure wc didn’t even do
without the parson.”
* * * *
“Rio”: The drought at its worst, we
were going for the lick of our lives cart-
ing water from the siding to keep our
stock alive. One settler’s cheerful, buxom
wife arrived in a spring cart, with a 100-
gallon galvanised-iron tank aboard. I
helped her fill up and was looking round
for the lid after covering the round hole
with a bag. “What are you looking for?”
she asked. “The lid,” I replied. “Haven’t
got one,” she told me. “But,” I asked,
“how on earth are you going to get
that tankful home without one?” “That’s
all right,” she said, climbing up, “I’m the
lid!” and so perched drove off on her
bumpy 10-mile ride.
“Nagheer”: Very soon the last of the
old-time teamsters will have gone from
the Queensland outback roads, and much
strange knowledge and experience will
have gone with them. They were a
hardy lot, performing prodigies of work
and endurance on a diet of corned
mutton, damper, boiled potatoes and tea,
all mixed thickly with dust, that would
shock a Nutrition Council to its scientific
foundations. Gone too, will be the songs
and recitations of the camps. Nobody
will know, or care, what happened even-
tually to the bad bushranger blankard
wot broke me Maggie’s ’eart, or whether
any of the many Tenderers of that mov-
ing and pathetic ditty really came across
him after they had leaped upon their
’orse and galloped on a course to the
steep and lonely ranges of the far-orf
Woolgong ’llls. They swore that while
wagon wheels was creakin’ they'd be
ever seekin’ the miscreant's life, but now
the wagon wheels creak no longer, and
the villain seems safe at last.
* * * *
“First Blue”: Dad was bracken-clear-
ing in the home paddock when Dave
came out with the morning mail. Chief
interest centred in an envelope bearing
the O.H.M.S. label, and the whole family
watched Dad spellbound as he pondered
over the contents. Suddenly he burst
into a bit of swearing that sent Mum’s
hands flying to her ears. “The stupidity
of them flamin’ Government coots!” he
roared. “Do you know what I gotter do
now —sterilise me blanky Alsatian dog.
Stone the flamin’ crows, where am /
“Honorable sir , the filthy offal I have placed before your illustrious and revered self
has been the vilest and foulest you have ever tasted."
"You re telling me!"
gonner get one of them blasted glass
cases them city barbers keep their razors
in?”
* *
“Notaden”: The Great Barrier Reef
Committee, founded in Brisbane some 14
years ago to study the largest coralline
mass in the world, is arranging a second
trial boring, this time at Heron Island, at
the south end of the main reef, nearly
abreast of Rockhampton. The previous
one of 600 ft., at Michaelmas Cay, near
Cairns, upset several scientific theories
by yielding typical land-borne deposits
for the last 173 ft., and no solid coral
after the first few feet. There is no ex-
planation, so far, as to why the corral-
line debris was not cemented together to
considerable depths, as in other coral
reef bores. As a matter of fact, less than
half the material of coral reefs consists
of actual coral. The remainder is mostly
formed by skeletons of marine animals.
One interesting feature is that the
southern part of the reef mass of 1100
miles is apparently slowing up rapidly in
growth.
* * *
“J.M.C.”: Waiting for the fair sex to
get dressed for a dance is as bad in New
Guinea as elsewhere. We made an agree-
ment with village natives to stage a
special dance for movie purposes, and
.*■ edden snirit of activity made us
Wilf in ere King She gear. Soon the
l h nrnl lads made their appearance dressed
n flaming loin-cloths and fully accoutred
in fathers shells and paint. Then the
adies came along. Squatting in a circle
Sey commen«d B ge.ttog ready by comb-
ine their hair and this took well over an
hour Then there was a careful massage
Ilf coconut oil that lasted until we whites
adiourned for a bite at midday. On
our return we found the damsels busily
collecting frangipanni blossoms and
stringing them together on fine bamboo
sticks. Then came an intermnm
while a small " , t 0 fina i_
around tbe enc ecorat ions The
ise the effects of her
bu ltwTsTot to be, The dear girls now’
hislsted on having something to eat and
iooki' IC onc ™°the’women and thTother
I,“the dechmng sun we packed up the
gear and headed back to camp.
“Barangkali”: Early settlers in the
Cocos Island group found one island
swarming with rats while the other dozen
islands were free from the pest. The
island was named Puloh Tikus (the
island of rats) and the. species identified
as the Brown Norwegian. They did
little damage to the coconuts, eating only
the ripe nuts which fell to the ground,
though the rats were excellent climbers,
most of their offspring being reared in
the crown of the palms. Fiity years ago
black rats came ashore from a wreck
and settled on every island except Puloh
Tikus, and these have since become the
greatest curse the atoll has had to endure,
They quickly learned to climb the palms
and chew through the stalk of the green
nuts, coming down to gnaw into the
kernels on the ground. Thousands of
green nuts are destroyed daily by the
black rat, but the Puloh Tikus variety
remains content with the few nuts that
a na ura y. #
“Sand Patch”: No mystery about those
N.T. abos. singing ecclesiastical airs at
their corroboree (B. 21/4/’37). Fifty
years ago the R.C. Church had a mission
on the Daly River (N.T ), and from the
good fathers Black Brother learnt not
only the Glona, but lots of other tunes,
Mrs. Litchfield, an old Territorial, re-
cords a similar experience at Anson Bay
m her book Far North Memories The
mission lasted only a few years, but the
tunes persisted, and it is a decidedly weird
experience to come on an outsize Binghi,
destitute of all clothing save a piece of
oyster-shell, and whose knowledge of
English is nil, cheerfully whistling some
part of the music of the Mass. The
tunes, like other tribal heritages, are
handed down by the old men. The mis-
sion has recently been re-established
further south on the Fitzmaurice River,
among what are probably the wildest
natives (and certainly the bloodthirstiest)
in the Northern Territory.
* * * *
“Hanko”: Horses and other animals
may be able to sense fear in human
beings (B. 21/4/’37), but I once fore-
stalled all chance of my funk being com-
municated to a certain neddy. Engaged
as offsider to the wool teams, I was
donated a quiet-looking bay nag. I was
mounted next morning when one of the
teamsters (he used to handle the young
stuff) stared wide-eyed amaze. Twas
enough for yours truly. I hit the ground
instanter—but the bronc didn’t put me
there. I often wonder how I’d have got
on, or off, had the horse wrangler main-
tained a frozen dial. All he said was:
“How you managed to saddle and bridle
it has got me beat” #
ilbulla.”: One lady certain to wear
Coronation colors is Mrs. Acridopeza
Reticulata, though the London event has
}t Mrg Reticulata is
the female mountain grasshopper. She
a^“ h d e a'nd
when alarmed she stands on tiptoe, raises
£
q£ wh .P e royal b , ue Maybe
the startling effect is intended to scare
intruders into believing she is capable of
unpleasant reprisals, but she isn’t. Her
husband wears a quiet brown suit,
* * * *
“L’Allegro’ : Do meat-ants carry a
stock of poison antidote? Digging up
the nests and sanding them had not the
slightest effect on a colony we were pes-
tered with, so Dad took a hand. .Soak-
ing half a sheep in strong arsenic he
spread it on the several nests. A mixture
of sugar, arsenic and water was also
spread as a dessert. Those ants simply
thrived on the diet. Some took a tern-
porary k. 0., only to revive later to toil
white with the arsenic, with redoubled
energy, and, while myriads feasted inside,
the hordes outside transported the tucker
to their storerooms.
“Chauve-souris”: The report that a
couple of flying-foxes have been found
as far south as the Danden ongs in Vic-
toria reminds me that a tropical and semi-
tropical forest tentacle extends from
N.Q. down the east coast of Australia
through N.S.W. into Victoria, the last
out t being a solitary clump 0 f cab-
ba/e.tree f ms near J No wa No wa in
th « Statc / Down ,his streak of tropical
vegetation come many animals and birds
wl f ich properly bclo „g t 0 f ar ,her north,
This pr *i b£ r bly y accoun t s for the presence
tar F south the big £rui t- e ating bat.
* *
“Mako”: Seagulls, of course, come in
from their native haunt to shelter when
rough weather is about, but . ■ ■
farmers assert that from being sue
casional visitors the gulls have now
become permanent residents in some
country localities. Whole colonies
young are being reared in rural sur-
roundings, and seem to take readily to a
diet .of worms and grubs instead or nsn.
As no spot in M.L. is far from
the gull doubtless regards even me m-
terior as merely a coastal resort, om
to-day his presence on the M.L. wayback
farm has nothing to do with the weather
at sea.
THE BUSH SCHOOL.
It opened first on a warm spring day
With a muster ot' twenty-two,
Shy little imps from the backblocks farms
And the camps where the tall trees grew;
All of us learning the golden rule
In the vast adventure of going to school!
I sat at a desk by the open door
And harked to the sleepy drone
Of bright little boys saying twice-times-two
And the shrill, triumphant tone
Of smart little girls who brought shame on me
By galloping through their A B C.
Though it’s forty years since I saw the school
In the shade of the tall bush trees,
Where the bright birds danced in the topmost
boughs
As they swayed in the river breeze,
I remember the creek and the swimming pool,
And the sunlit walls of that old bush school.
I can hear, in the silence of distant lands,
The drone of the schoolroom rise,
The notes of the birds and the river song
And the travelling stockmen’s cries,
And voices that call from the wide world’s
ends,
The lilting voices of childhood friends.
N.S.W.
LYNIDO.


“Worro”: On the morning of the local
race meeting, one of our neighbors, a
consistent punter, found himself stony.
Times were bad, and there seemed to be
nothing on the farm he could turn into
money at such short notice. He walked
round his last remaining cow, but
reckoned the time too short to sell her
and collect the necessary cash. Then
he had an idea, and he hurried from the
paddock. A couple of hours later, all
dressed up and in his rickety spring
dray, he drew rein before the door of a
skin-buyer and tossed a hide inside for
which he received £l. That’s dinkum.
* sjc #
“Tockilly”: Ever noticed these pecu-
liarities about mushrooms? You will
see a bumper crop only once in half a
dozen years and always preceding a good
rainy season. They grow only during
the night, and will often be seen growing
in semicircles or straight lines. Does
anyone know why the mushrooms at the
ends of line or curve are always tiny,
grading to large ones in the centre?
* * * *
‘Chela”: Sleepwalking abos. are rare,
but one old member of the Worgaits “suf-
fered” from somnambulism all his life.
The other abos. would watch him with
awe during his nightly walks, and he was
treated with great respect, the choicest
cuts of any game being reserved for him.
Binghi believed that at nights a spirit
named Moolongah came and gently took
the old chap by the hand, leading him
safely around on his evening walkabouts.
As his exalted position in the tribe de-
pended on his sleepwalking, I suspected
that old Jibberoo frequently put it over
his gullible comrades. 1 questioned him
regarding the nightly prowl, but he pro-
“Shtop her , conshable—breaksh windowsh !
fessed ignorance ; nevertheless, there was
a twinkle in his eye when I mentioned
how lucky he was to get the choicest
cut of the ’roo for breakfast.
* * * *
‘Colon”: The bees that stung that
pomaded pate (B. 28/4/’37) probably mis-
took its owner for a flower and were
merely registering their excusable annoy-
ance, but the little devils do object to
artificial scents and particularly hate the
social outcast who suffers from that
disease which his best friends won’t tell
him of. The experienced apiarist always
washes his hands and dons a clean shirt
before he pays them a visit Bees also
object to being breathed upon, but if a
few flowers are rubbed on the hands
they will purr docilely and submit to
anything but a sudden jar. If they do
come at you, submerge your natural in-
stinct and stand perfectly still; if you
bolt their motto is that of the North-west
Mounties.
.** * *
“Ringer”: The chief difference be-
tween station and show cattle-drafting
(B. 21 /4/’37) is that in the former the
cut-out beast is taken away
from the face of the camp
as quietly as possible; m
show contests there’s more
galloping about in five
minutes than takes place
on a station drafting-
camp in an hour. If at
show camp-drafting com-
petitions cows and calves
were used instead of bul-
locks, steady work would
be necessary, and city folk
might then get a better
idea of what was the real
intent of cattle-drafting
on the open camp. Good
as show camp-drafting
horses may be, 1 haven’t
seen one anywhere near
as good or as knowing as
some I’ve forked in s.w.
Queensland ; one in parti-
cular, for which its owner
refused £2OO, used to be
ridden without the bit in
its mouth. That prad
knew a calf better than
the cow itself; in time it
even got to know if a cow
had had its cleanskin calf
“duffed.”
“Kwakprak”: I would not choose
either of the experts who have contri-
buted to the subject to remove a fish
hook from my anatomy. The best
method is to push the hook through over
the barb and then snip off the shank near
the skin. The barb is then gripped and
the bend pulled through. Done this
way, it is less painful, especially if the
hook is rusty or has been in for any time.
The punctured and adhering tissues do
not have to be dragged back in the re-
verse direction, and it helps to remove
bait or particles of rust from the wound
track.
* * * *
“Groper”: The Grand Prix for diges-
tive ability must go to the cassowary.
At the Perth Zoo a tennis ball bounced
into the bird’s enclosure, and Cassy
promptly pounced and swallowed. As
something similar had happened to the
hippo, a few years previously—result: a
dead hippo.—it was expected that the
Queensland-New Guinea fowl would
share the same fate. But time has passed
without Cassy turning a feather, and it
has now been concluded that even in-
flated rubber isn’t proof against that
bird’s powerful gizzard.
!{l jjj
“Curate’s Egg”: Having lately added
“septic poisoning” to his vocabulary, a
Torres Strait native school-teacher who
in his official capacity had to fill in a
death certificate for a deceased com-
patriot wrote the high-sounding phrase
instead of the customary “short wind”
with which Binghi describes decease. The
sequel was a midnight exhumation on a
Torres Strait isle, with the medico fight-
ing off hordes of malaria-laden mos-
quitoes while Red-tape’s demands were
satisfied.
* * * *
“Hanko”: The crustacean mentioned
by “Naturala” (B. 28/4/’37) which clubs
its prey with a ponderous claw is known
“We've lost int'rest in the Coronation since George got crowned with a
bottle .”
to the Bunk Bay abos. as the nulla-nulla
yabbie. I had one. for years. Loose in
the garden it proved invaluable for a time.
It cracked every shellback about the
place; bashed every slug, worm, aphis
and ladybird to pulp, and it even wiped
the slaters clean out. But as it grew
older the yabbie developed into a regular
thug, and we had to get about on jam-
tin stilts to escape having our corns bat-
tered. Its end came suddenly. One Satur-
day night 1 tripped over in the backyard,
and before I could right myself it
whacked me behind the ear and deliber-
ately smashed four parcels I’d placed
handy. A man can stand only so much.
* * # #
“Bull-ant Bill”: Poor Westray’s death
whilst seeking aid after the Stinson crash
has caused many an argument as to
whether he acted rightly in setting off
down Christmas Creek.
A bushman would say
he had. It is a sound
rule in steep, heavily
timbered mountain
country, such as the
McPherson Range is, to
fodow a watercourse
down, taking careful
note of direction in all
detours round cliffs or
falls, in order to be
sure of returning to the
same stream. If a
night has to be spent
on the journey, an ear
should be kept cocked
for roosters crowing,
particularly about dawn
and daybreak. Go
slow, take plenty of
rests, listen and hail,
especially if you have
to make a detour up
the hillside. A cliff
acts as a sounding
board for the voice.
Heavy timber deadens
sound transmission. The long “Ahoy-
ee-ee” is a better hail than any non-abo.
coo-ee, and less tiring to the throat.
* * * *
“W.P.T.”: Add to the odd characters
of the bush one who was known to N. S.
Wales South Coasters as “Feathery
Dick.” He always carried a pea-rifle,
birds being the chief item in his diet, and
the moniker came, from his practice of
plucking his kill as he walked. Also,
he usually had a bird cooking as he wan-
dered along. Heating several small stones
in the fire in the morning, he would pack
these into a bird, wrap it in a damp
rag and then in a piece of old motor
inner tube, which “oven” he would roll
inside his swag. By the time he was
ready to make camp for the night the
bird was cooked sufficiently for his not-
too-fussy taste.
C. Coral”: In my ignorance I had
imagined that when I bought smoked
ham or smoked herrings the goods had
undergone a process entailing some ac-
quaintanceship with actual smoke, and
had romantically visualised the farm wife
turning the flitches as the smoke did its
work. In a farmhouse the other day I
witnessed sections of chopped-up pig
being treated with a brown-looking,
peculiar-smelling mixture from a bottle.
As the process of pouring and rubbing
went on, I was informed: “We’re smok-
ing bacon. No need to use a fire for it
these days, you know —you buy a bottle
of liquid smoke, same as this.” The
“smoker” assured me that two good rub-
bings of bottled smoke did the trick
just as effectively as the old-time pro-
cess—that the flavor was even better, in
fact.
* * H= *
“Garda’s” American hen
which produced the egg bearing the
words “War June 20th” (B. 14/4/’37)
should be prosecuted for laying under
false pretences. Take an ordinary hen’s
egg and scratch on the shell with a
match dipped in lard the desired mes-
sage. Drop the egg into a jar of vinegar
and leave it there for a fortnight. Dur-
ing that time the shell will become as
soft as the yoke. Then remove the egg
and allow the. shell to solidify. The re-
sult will soon be apparent. The chemical
action of the vinegar on the shell acts
like an engraving liquid except on the
portion written in lard, which will stand
out in bold relief.
* * * :]i
“Creel”: Most interesting member of
Australia’s great starfish family is Queens-
land’s rep. Luida maculata. Luida is
unique in that in his anatomical make-
up there is no intestine, and consequently
no outlet for food wastage ; he consumes
or assimilates every particle of food taken
in. No other creature on land or in the
sea is so constructed.
* * * *
“Horsetailer”: The skipper of the
Murray steamer Monada —Mildura's
firewood supply boat —has reported that
locks are hindering instead of aiding
navigation. Since Lock II has been re-
tarding the flow of the river numerous
sandbars are forming, impeding shipping.
Another disturbing result is the killing
of timber. Not even redgums will grow
in permanent water, and because of the
now raised river level Mildura sees, in-
stead of a verdant wall of century-old
river gums, more and more dead trees,
$ $ $ $
“Ida D.”: Patagonian paysanas (coun-
trywomen) also understand the Stopesian
properties of certain herbs (B. 14/4/’37);
they showed me a plant with a small
blue flower —unusual, as most of the wild
plants in that region have yellow blooms.
They claimed also to know its opposite
number. Patagonian women make ex-
cellent vegetable dyes of various colors,
using leaves, roots and berries ; and, read-
ing the old histories, it was always the
women who prepared the plant poisons
for enemies. In most wild communities
it seems to have been always the woman’s
part to preside over the still-room, and
prepare herbs for fragrant or healing
salves, and wines and teas as remedies
for various ailments. Many an “old
woman’s remedy” has its foundation in
a knowledge of the remedial properties
of herbs —unscientific, perhaps, but often
sound.
THE CANECUTTERS.
Now, out we go to an early “cut”
That’s down by the Tully River;
Canvas bunks and an iron hut,
And the ripe ratoons a-quiver.
Fresh from the spell of a five months’ “slack,”
When time takes lots of killing,
With Dolf and Tony, Clancey and Jack,
All broke, and ready and willing.
A mild frost ushers the timid glow
Of the June dawn’s first begetting,
While fast men race for the outside row,
The slow, to the pace they’re setting.
But, fast or slow, there are cheques to make,
With never the least foreboding;
The rails are laid for the waiting rake,
And a nation’s wealth we’re loading.
Yet oft and long are the barren “slacks,”
When damp are the beds we freeze on,
By coastal towns or inland tracks,
And pray for an early season
From the golden god with the heart to give
From the slope and loamy hollow,
For the right to live as men should live
In the chosen craft we follow.
N.S.W.
FRANK MCCALL.


Srivate executorship
demands sacrifice !
The demands of knowledge and sacrifice
which a private individual is asked to face
as an Executor or Trustee are such that he is
rarely, if ever, able to completely fulfil them.
Moreover, the intricacies of estate adminis-
tration often lead to the neglect of the
trustee’s own affairs.
But while the private individual may find
his appointment an intolerable burden, the
functions he has been asked to fulfil are the
everyday work of corporate trustees. If you
wish to surrender a trusteeship or act in an
advisory capacity only, consult us —an inter-
view can be arranged at any time. The
Trustees Executors and Agency Company
Limited has had nearly 60 years’ experience
in the administration of Estates.
THE TRUSTEES EXECUTORS
t V COMPANY LTD.
( Incorporated in Victoria in ISIS.)
THE OLDEST TRUSTEE COMPANY IN AUSTRALIA
412 Collins Street, Melbourne ... 1-5 Bligh Street, Sydney
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves and Undivided Profits, £951,874.
Trust Assets under Administration, £28,800,000. £20,000 has been lodged
with the Colonial Treasurer of New South Wales and £lO,OOO with the
Treasurer of Victoria as guarantees for the proper Administration of Estates.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman), , _
Maj.-Gen. Sir Bmdenell Wb te. K.C.8.. K.C.M.G . K.C.V.0., D.S.O.J
R. O. Blackwood, D. Stuart Murray, John Fordyce,
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G.; Sir Lennon Raws,
General Manager: W. Sydney Jones; Manager; K. M. Hughes.
N.S.W. DIRECTORS:
Sir Claude Reading. K.C.M.G. (Chairman),
W. D. Stewart, R. T. Hilder.
N.S.W. Manager: J. W. Russell French.
ADAMS’ (TAiTERSALL’S) HOTEL,
25!) PITT STREET. SYDNEY, 484 GEORGE STREET.
Rooms. 6/- and 8/- per dav; Breakfast, Table d’Hote or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms. Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for I’ amilies.
FIVE- PUBLIC DINING ROOMS,
lunch from 13 noon (Sunday, 13.45 pm.). Din ner lrom 5.30 p.m. (Sunday, 5.45 p.m.).
Tables or Seats may be reserved by 'Phone. M-1601.
The WILDCAT
COLUMN
Mutual Life and Citizens
Ordinary Like Department.
Added
Ex- Written to
Dec., Income.t Claims.* penses. Off. Funds.
£ £ £ £ £
1905.. 255,130 64,962 33,454 20,572 136,051
1925. . 1,685,960 1,036,473 140,373
1930.- 2,109,372 1,379,792 183,170 10,870 ]
Transferred to General Reserve, £200,000; ) 267,540
to Income Tax Reserve, £68,000 J
1931.. 2,022,483 1,518,274 182,488 131,981 l 177 740
Transferred to Income Tax Reserve, £12,000 J
1932.. 1,987,772 1,482,202 183,976
To Staff Fund, £14,023 .. .. X 382,702
1933.. 2,071,868 1,486,785 188,306 62)
To Staff Fund, £7189 .. .. 1 545,283
1934. . 2,202,168 1,456,873 192,823
To Staff Fund, £10,882 .. .. 1 629,458
1935. . 2,314,069 1,458,217 212,097 3,415 )
Profit on sale of securities, £7557 ..
To Staff Fund, £13,027 .. .. 1923,726
1936.. 2,649,319 1,446,134 273,988 J
♦lncludes dividends to shareholders,
tAfter deducting taxes.
Industrial Life Department.
Expenses Added
(Including Written to
Dec., Income.t Claims. Dividends). Off. Funds.
£ £ £ £ £
1905.. 199,426 51,095 84,039 8577 55,715
1925. . 647.779 210.802 260,596 3003 173.378
1930.. 815,475 342,047 294,398 5138 ? 157>89 2
Transferred to Income Tax Reserve, £16.000 j
1931.. 761,017 298,868 284.009 267 1 173i873
Transferred to Income Tax Reserve, £2OOO )
1932.. 757.097 307.014 268,310 4062 177,711
To Staff Fund, £6293.. .. .. 1 ...
1933.. 784,788 297,798 274,704 4750 1201,243
To Staff Fund. £6312.. .. .. J...
1934.. 869,449 281,242 283,595 2834 ) 295,4b0
To Staff Fund, £5063 I 000 qso
1935.. 920,562 291,691 288,557 1301 ) 33d,aou
To Staff Fund, £5677 .. .. .. ( „. n 779
1936.. 1,008,393 326,960 322,797 2188 ) **
tAfter deducting taxes.
The M.L.C. celebrated its jubilee year
(1936) by notching fresh records in every
feature of the business. Though the
youngest of Australia’s big life offices,
the low cost at which it collects its in-
come and manages its investments makes
the co. a prominent front-ranker, while
the solid nature of the assets and satisfac-
tory margins in those things upon which
prosperity and progress depend make the
outlook for policy-holders promising.
For the 21 years to 1907 it was the
Citizens’ Life Assurance Cos., Ltd.; then
it absorbed the purely mutual M.L.A.,
and took its present title. A couple of
years later the Widows’ Fund, another
mutual concern, was welded into the
business. One of the inducements that
led to the amalgamations was a guaran-
tee, backed by the Citizens’ capital (then
£20,000 paid) that henceforth costs would
not exceed 15 p.c. of total income. The
co. has since made continuous progress.
Slump slowed up the rate of advance,
but did not halt it.
Combining the figures of all depart-
ments, the amount of new business put
on the books last year was £10,845,570,
an increase of over £2,700,000 on the pre-
vious year’s figure. The growth in busi-
ness in force (£68,870,388) was
£5,698,008. Loans on policies (£1,811,089)
were down £46,757, and surrenders
(£262,914) were £13,336 lighter. Total
income (£3,744,515) was £409,207 better.
The spring in net premiums (£2,615,680)
was £362,137, and interest, etc.
(£1,128,835), was up £47,070. In addi-
tion there was a profit of £7557 on
realisation of securities. After meeting
all legitimate claims and exes., sending
£19,407 to the staff fund and handing
shareholders £170,000 —£93,335 from the
Ordinary, £66,665 from the. Industrial
and £IO,OOO from the General branch —
a record £1,274,558 was added to the
Assurance fund, raising it to £22,665,728.
In addition there are reserves of £490,000
in the Ordinary, £79,000 in the Indus-
trial and £202,727 (including undivided
profits) in the General branch.
The surpluses distributed in the Ordi-
nary and Industrial departments were to-
gether £59,487 in excess of the previous
year’s figure, and £57,312 more than was
distributed in 1929:
IQ9Q 1Q99 IQQK IQQfi
Ordinary .. £692,946 £552,326 £671,296 £721,589
Industrial .. 76,730 70,530 96,203 105,399
Total .. £769,676 £622,856 £767,499 £826,988
Bonuses to policy-holders were on the
same handsome scale as in 1935, when
they were again slightly increased on
most Ordinary contracts.
In the Ordinary department the rate
which the office assumes that its funds
will earn has been lowered from 3 p.c.
to 2| p.c., and in the Industrial section
the rate assumed is only 24 p.c. These
are the most stringent rates of valuation
used in Australasia. The aim is main-
tenance of fat bonuses; by valuing at a
low rate of interest large sums are locked
up during the. early years of a policy
and released with interest later on. After
deducting taxes, last year’s effective rate
of interest in the Ordinary section was
£4 14s. 7d. p.c., and in the Industrial
£4 13s. 5d., so there are wide margins
available there.
As for expenses, the rate in the Ordi-
nary department was 14.84 p.c. of
premium income, or 10.04 p.c. of total
income, compared with 13.60 p.c. and
8.86 p.c. for 1935. The increase is quite
natural in view of the large amount of
new business written. In the industrial
section the rates were 32.37 p.c. of
premium and 25.07 p.c. of total income,
compared with 31.90 p.c. and 24.58 p.c.
respectively for 1935.
Policy-holders in the Widows’ Fund
section (it is a closed circuit) are in clover.
They received a compound reversionary
bonus of £2 10s. p.c., which was equal
to 138.6 p.c. of the premiums received
—a position unique in the history of life
assurance, the trustees say.
The £25,168,846 of assets, which are
worth more than their book value, is
invested in this way:
1935. p.c. 1936. p.c.
Public securities. £19,929.882 82.8 £19.297,913 76.7
Mortgages .. 1,189,369 4.9 2.875,207 11.5
Loans on policies 1,857,846 7.7 1,811,089 7.2
Cash, book debts,
etc 492.659 2.0 510.817 2.0
Property.. .. 133,611 0.6 184,128 0.7
Other assets .. 473,660 2,0 489.692 1.9
£24,077,027 £25,168,846
Liabilities* .. 1,624,153 1.394,527
Net assets .. £22,452,874 £23,774,319
*Other than under policies.
The outstanding feature last year was the
attention given to mortgages, up
£1,685,838, raising them to 11.5 p.c. of
total assets as against 4.9 p.c. at the
previous balance. Government securi-
ties (down £631,696) dropped from 82.8
p.c. to 76.7 p.c. of total assets. The
board has also decided to build a fine
new headquarters, with plenty of letting
space, at the corner of Martin-place and
Castlereagh-street, Sydney.
Burns, Philp and Cos., Ltd.
To Re- Re-
March, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1927.. 213.297 10 p.c. = 137.500 75,797 1,033,638
1928.. 243.485 10 „ „ 150,000 93,485 1,127.123
1929.. 244,381 10 „ „ 150,000 94,381 1,221,504
1930.. 247.946 10 „ „ 160,000 97,946 1,319,450
1931.. 241,675 10 „ „ 150,000 91,675 1,411,125
1932.. 185,973 10 „ ~150,000 35,973 1,447,098
1933.. 219,416 10 „ „ 150,000 69,416 1,516.514
Written off plantations, £25,000.. 1,491,514
Staff bonus, £20,000 .. .. 1,471,514
1934.. 222,988 10 p.c. = 150,000 72,988 1,544.502
Written off plantations, £25,000.. 1,519,502
1935.. 212,362 10 p.c. = 150,000 62,362 1,581,864
W-itten off plantations, £25,000.. 1,556 864
1936.. 234,474 10 p.c. = 150,000 84.474 1,641,338
Written off plantations, £25,000.. 1,616,338
1937.. 244,149 10 p.c. = 150,000 94,149 1,710.487
For the last 18 years a steady 10 p.c.
div. has been paid with wide margins,
despite slump. Also, when the books last
closed there was £1,710,487 of reserves
visibly supporting and assisting £1,500,000
of share capital; and the position is more
attractive than it looks. Since 1920,
over £1,900,000 (£573,000-odd more than
the figure at which freeholds and ship-
ping property now appear) has been
struck off for depreciation ; in addition,
special allowances, totalling £IOO,OOO,
were written off the book value of plan-
tations during the four years to the end
of March, 1936, Moreover, the business,
which extends round the Australian coast,
out over the Pacific and north to Java,
Singapore, Manila, Hong Kong and else-
where, keeps on expanding. It is not sur-
prising, therefore, that the market has
long held in high esteem the scrip of this
big shipping and merchandising organisa-
tion, founded by the far-sighted James
Burns in the sixties of last century.
Anticipations of extra benefits had sent
the price of the fully-paid pound ords. to
50s. early in 1929. Owing to slump and
the general collapse of prices, the figure
fell sharply to 345. a year later, and then
rose steadily to 68s. 12 months ago. Ex-
pectations of largesse lifted the price to
81s. 6d. in March last. The figure is now
around 735.; the board’s announcement
of a par issue of 500,000 new £1 ords.,
one for three, to those on the register
at July 31, was not fully in accord with
market anticipations. Still, the issue is
in the nature of a handsome bonus to
shareholders. After exercising the rights,
the net price of the scrip at 735. is 595.
9d. At the lower figure, the return is
3.3 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis. The net
tangible cover is visibly 375. Id. When
all the money on the new issue is in, a
10 p.c. div. will call for £200,000, and
only once (in 1932) during the last decade
has less profit than that been claimed.
During the last term, the economic
barometer continued to rise, the co.’s
merchandising sales were a record, its
shipping and trading operations pro-
duced satisfactory results,” more was re-
ceived from holdings in other cos., and
the rise in the price of copra greatly
improved the outlook for plantation sub-
sidiaries. The spring in the gross
from all sources (£965,978) was £105,859,
of which exes. (£600,449) took £91,931.
After striking off £139,463 (up £4842) for
depreciation, etc., and including an un-
explained addition of £18,083 to the in-
surance fund, and sundry branch and
other reserves (together £553,351), the
net result was £9675 better at 16.2 p.c.
on capital, compared with 15.6 p.c. for
the previous term, and an average of 14.4
p.c. for the five years before that.
Balance-sheet figures reflect marked
expansion of the business, and now tell a
little more than they used to:
1925. 1936. 1937.
Paid capital .. £1,250,000 £1,500,000 £1,500,000
Liabilities .. 1,361,444 1,627,341 1,717,049
Properties andl f
shipping ..[2,030,836 3,065,819 j 1,326,-70
Investments, etc. J l 1,693,218
Stocks, advances, „ „„ „
etc 683,968 850,360 1,060,010
Book debts .. 781,838 813,992 823,716
Cash .. .. 123,955 113,508 98,810
Liabilities (up £89,708) are made up of
sundry creditors, etc., £462,274 ; amounts
owing to subsidiaries, £79,926 ; consign-
ment accounts, etc., in credit, £411,145 ;
branch balances, £763,704, some of which
may be genuine profit. Investments,
which consist of shares in other cos. and
Government loans (£960,437) and shares
in subsidiaries (£732,781), are worth a
lot more than their book value. The
holdings include. B.P. South Seas and
Queensland Insurance, in which the co.
owns two-thirds and nearly half the capi-
tal respectively. When the books closed,
stock and advances (up £209,655), book
debts (up £9724) and cash (down £14,692)
together exceeded liabilities by £265,498,
an improvement of £114,979 over the
twelvemonth. Excluding shares in sub-
sidiaries, but including shares in other
cos. and Government loans, the more or
less liquid surplus was £1,225,935.
Union Theatres Investments, Ltd. (Syd.)
( Dividends ■, Towards
Dec., Profit. Pref. 8 p.c. Ord. Reserves. Deficit.
£ £ & & &
1927.. 16,717 16,717 Nil
1928.. ' 13.815 27,557 Nil
Union Theatres’ div. guarantee, £6505.. 11,886
1929.. 23,850 27,980 Nil
Union Theatres’ div. guarantee, £16,032 og »
1930.. 15.887 28,000 Nil
Overprovision for taxation, £2692. . 9,405
, Reserves.
Union Theatres’ div. guarantee, £9308 ) 15493
1931.. 15,590 Nil Nil .15,590 3 _
Written off parent’s debt, £9308. . 6,185
Overprovision for taxation, £1741.. 7,926
1932.. 3,845 Nil Nil 3,845 11,7 >1
5 p.c.
1933.. 15,964 17,500 Nil
1934.. 16,053 17,500 Nil
1935.. 16.683 17,!i00 Nil >,»tl
1936*. 19,978 17,500 0.3 p.c.=1500 97S 8,949
*63 weeks to Jan. 2, 1937.
For the first time since the co. was
formed at the end of 1926 the pref. div.
has been earned and the ords. have re-
ceived a trifle. Prospects of earnings im-
proving sufficiently to show ord.-holders
an adequate return on capital are anything
but rosy, which means that the prefs. are
not likely to enjoy a wide margin of
security so far as their minimum div. re-
quirements are concerned. Still, while
rents and overhead remain as they are —
the outlook favors a hardening of rental
values —the fully-paid pound prefs. at
15s. return 6.3 p.c. on a 5 p.c. div. basis.
An equity in the building gives the scrip
a net tangible backing of 495. Id., book
value.
Here is the position as balance-sheet
figures show it:
1929. 1933. 1935. 1936.
Pref. capital.. £350,000 £350,000 £350,000 £350,000
Ord. capital.. 128,500 500,000 500,000 500,000
Mortgages .. 145,000 1 45,9 09 1 45,876 145,876
Sundry creditors 23,578 21,404 16,753 9,772
Union Theatres 374,588
Land and
buildings .. 969,880 1,002,894 1,017,149 1,011,047
Book debts,
cash, etc... 49,771 24,654 12,202 13,801
The land, together with an adjoining
property, was taken over from the old
Union Cos. (in liq.) for £273,500 (cost) —
£128,500 ords., and transfer of a mort-
gage covered the balance. The building,
equipment, etc. —it is the State Theatre
and shopping block of 1J floors, Market-
street, Sydney—cost £729,000 ; estimate
was £307,000. Union, which took half
a million ords. altogether, put up the
extra money, which in turn was found
mostly by shareholders in the holding
cos. —Amalgamated, Spencer’s, West’s
and Greater J. D. Williams. The public
directly subscribed £350,000 in 8 p.c.
cum. prefs., largely on the strength of a
guarantee as to capital and dividend by
Union and Australasian Films.
During the slump both the guaran-
tors went into liquidation, thus wiping


FOR PUBLIC INFORMATION.
ABRIDGED PROSPECTUS
OF AN ISSUE OF 20,000 PREFERENCE SHARES
AND 10,000 ORDINARY SHARES OF £1 EACH.
PAYABLE: 10/- ON APPLICATION AND 10/- ON ALLOTMENT.
BRITISH STANDARD MACHINERY CO.,
LIMITED.
(Incorporated under the Companies Act of the State of New South Wales on 18th March, 1937.)
The Memorandum and Articles of Association have been compiled to comply with the requirements
of the Sydney Stock Exchange, and application is being made for an official listing of the shares of
the Company.
NOMINAL CAPITAL: £lOO,OOO IN SHARES OF £1 EACH.
Divided into 100,000 shares of £1 each, of which:—
41,607 fully-paid Ordinary Shares have been issued.
4,000 7 per cent. Cumulative Preference Shares have been issued,
20,000 7 per cent. Cumulative Preference Shares are now offered for public subscription,
payable 10/- on application and 10/- on allotment.'
10,000 Ordinary S'hares are now offered for public subscription, payable 10/- on application
and 10/- on allotment.
24,898 Shares are held in reserve for future issue at the discretion of the Directors.
100,000
NOTE: First Preference Shares are preferential as to 7 per cent, cumulative dividend and also
as to return of capital in the event of winding-up. Preference Share dividends will be payable half-yearly
in March and September.
No Promoter’s consideration was paid to any promoter or any other person either by way of cash
cr issue of shares when this Company was formed.
The right of voting attached to each class of shares is equal, and in accordance with the provisions
of the Articles of Association in respect of voting at meetings.
DIRECTORS.
WILLTAM HORACE REARDON, Engineer, 6 Wynyard Street, Sydney.
FREDERIC JAMES WALLIS, Merchant. 109 Pitt Street, Sydney.
EDWIN ROLAND BLACKADDER, Engineer, 6 Wynyard Street, Sydney.
WILHELM AUGUST MIROW, Company Director, S 3 Pitt Street, Sydney.
BANKERS: English, Scottish and Australian Bank, Limited, Martin Place, Sydney.
S'OLICJTOR: J. N. Gammell. 88 Pitt Street, Sydney.
AUDITORS: P. L. de Monchaux and Company, Chartered Accountants (Aust.), 115 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
SECRETARY: J. C. Small, A.A.A., Company Secretary, 6 Wynyard Street, Sydney.
REGISTERED OFFICE: G Wynyard Street, Sydney.
BROKERS: Charles H. Sfnith and Company, 27 Hunter Street, Sydney.
OBJECTS.
The principal object of the Company is to trade as importers and distributors of tractors and
manufacturers of a large variety of machines for road-making and maintenance, tank-sinking, concrete
building and bridgework, timber-getting, farming and general engineering.
NEW CAPITAL ISSUE.
The object of the present issue of shares is to provide additional trading capital to take advantage
of the increasing volume of good business offering.
PRESENT TRADING AND SCOPE FOR EXPANSION.
The business of the British Standard Machinery Co. was commenced by Messrs. W. H. Reardon
and E. R. Blackadder in 1924, and was taken over by the present Company as from Ist January, 1937.
The best indication of the growth and profit-earning capacity of the business is to be found in
the fact that, after allowing for reasonable drawings, the capital account increased from approxi-
mately £4OOO in 1924 to approximately £40,000 in 1936, without the introduction of any new capital.
It is anticipated that, with additional working capital, the Company’s trade will expand along
profitable lines. During the six months ended 31st December, 1936, the business made net profits
which would liave enabled it to pay dividends at the rate of 7 per cent, per annum on all preference
shares and 12 per cent, on all ordinary shares, including all shares now to be issued. Thus, with-
out taking into account any additional earnings from increased business, very satisfactory dividends
should be paid on the whole of the Company's capital, including the present issue.
In view of the extent and efficiency of the Company’s organisation and the increasing activity
in the trade of users of the Company’s products, the additional working capital of the Company should
be very profitably employed.
ASSETS AND LIABILITIES.
According to the certificate of Messrs. P. L. de Monchaux and Company, Chartered Accoun-
tants (Aust.), the surplus of assets over liabilities as at Ist January, 1937, was £45,607, represented
by 41,607 ordinary shares and 4000 preference shares, which have been issued.
MANAGEMENT.
The management of the business will be under the control of Messrs. W. H. Reardon and E. R.
Blackadder, who have made the business such a success in the past. In addition, they will have
the assistance of the other Directors, who are experienced and successful commercial men.
The faith of Messrs. Reardon and Blackadder in the future of the Company is exemplified by the
fact that when the Company was formed they accepted ONLY ordinary shares for their assets and business.
AN ATTRACTIVE INVESTMENT.
For shares in a Company to be considered a good investment, they should be:—
(a) Supported by good security.
(b) Easily negotiable.
(e) Produce adequate and regular return on capital.
It can be confidently claimed that shares in this Company possess all of these essential factors,
SECURITY: The Company’s assets are mostly liquid, and represented by stock and good debtors’
accounts, against which security is held in most instances. Upon the completion of the present share
issue, preference shares will be represented by assets to ttie value of £2/13/- per share, excluding
goodwill.
NEGOTIABILITY: Application is now being made for the listing of the Company’s shares on
the Sydney Stock Exchange, and the Articles of Association are in accordance with the Stock Exchange
requirements.
, RETURN ON CAPITAL: After making adequate provision for all taxation and doubtful debts,
the net profits of the firm for its last financial period ended 31st December, 1936, were sufficient
to have paid dividends at 7 per cent, per annum on preference shares and 12 per cent, per annum on
oidinary shares, based on the paid-up capital of the Company after the present issue is subscribed.
STATUTORY REQUIREMENTS.
... hihumum subscription which, in the opinion of the Directors, must be raised by the present
Slare / is £2500, being application moneys from the sale of 6000 shares.
, , itle of the Companies Act of New South Wales, in respect of issue of prospectus,
have, not been complied with in this advertisement. Complete prospectuses complying with the full
ST’tro °- the Companies Act, together with application forms for shares, may be obtained from
wnaiies ii. Smith and Company, the Company’s Brokers, or any member of the Sydney Stock Exchange 1
All applications £ or share# must be made on official form accompanying the prospectus. 1
ESTABLISHED
1834
THE
Commercial Banking Company
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND £4,300,000 0 0
(Used wholly in the business)
RESERVE CAPITAL . . £4,739,012 10 0
DIRECTORS:
JAMES ASHTON (Chairman); EDWARD R. KNOX;
OWEN E. FRIEND; SIR WM. VICARS, C.8.E.;
ORWELL PHILLIPS.
General Manager:
C. DARVALL.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS
TRANSACTED
Head Office: 343 George Street, Sydney
London Office:
18 BIRCHIN LANE, LOMBARD STREET, E.C.3.
London Bankers:
The Bank of England; Westminster Bank, Ltd.; Barclay’s
Bank, Ltd.; National Provincial Bank, Ltd.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout—
New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, South Australia.
And at Canberra, Federal Territory.
Agents throughout the World.
*
Am
m
st'
CO
«*• * S \ i
atw
\lse
SUPER
JriMS
SUPE
Plus
ETHYL
ETHYL
AS
v
" Get that
Empire Spirit
CB3 • IE -SP
LJ
BENZOL (tinted Blue) IS
SOLD AT THE STANDARD GRADE PRICE
out the guarantee, and the prefs. were
passed by for the two years to the end
of 1932. The outlook changed when
General Theatres Corp. (it brought the
city houses of U.T. and Hoyt’s under one
management) took a five-year lease of the
theatre at £31,200 p.a., and the pref. div.
was reduced from 8 p.c. to 5 p.c., with
the proviso that after the ords. have had
1 p.c. (£5000) the remainder of any years’
divisible profit shall go one half to the
prefs. and the other half to the ords.
The lease, which runs out* at the end of
this year, requires the lessee to care for
the theatre and plant; hence the lessor
makes no provision out of its earnings
for depreciation of that part of the
property.
Practically all available space in the
building is let. The improvement of
£4526 in last year’s gross earnings
(£39,794) was due partly to alterations to
the basement. Exes. (£19,816) took £1231
of the increase, leaving the net result
£3292 better at £19,978, or enough to pay
the prefs. 5 p.c. and show 0.49 p.c. on
ord. capital.
Gibson and Howes, Ltd. (Q.)
Net To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
o £ £ £
1926.. 21,918 8 p.e. = 22,400
1927.. 36,020 10 „ „ 28,000 8,020 20.970
Reserves disclosed, £4050 .. 24,420
1928.. 23,163 8 p.c. = 22,400 763 25,183
1929.. 22,768 8 „ „ 22,400 368 25.551
1930.. 18,450 8 „ „ 22,400
1931.. 24,830 8 „ „ 22,400 2,430 24,031
Loss.
1932.. 3,559 Nil
Profit.
1933.. 19,553 6 p.c. - 16.800 2,753 23,225
1934.. 21,462 6£ „ „ 18,200 3,262 26,487
1935.. 28,001 7-1 „ „ 21,000 7,001 33,488
1936.. 30,877 8 „ „ 22,400 8,477 41,965
The spring of £2876 in last year’s de-
clared net earnings of this Bundaberg
miller and grower appears to have been
due largely to reduced costs, following
substantial expenditure on plant im-
provements, including new electrical
power equipment, in the sugar mill. A
mild winter and the co.’s irrigation
scheme ensured a good harvest. The
146,627 tons of cane put through the
rollers was 23,071 tons less than the pre-
vious year’s record crushing, but there
was t! a large” carry-over, and the yield of
sugar per ton of cane was the best yet.
The production of raws was 2796 tons
(4400 tons in the previous year) in excess
of the mill’s peak-year allowance. The
final price of raws for No. 1 pool sugar
is expected to be £l6 16s. per ton, and
for excess sugar £6 18s. per ton. The
prices realised for the previous season
were £l6 17s. and £7 2s. 2d. respectively.
After sending £11,409 to the depre-
ciation reserve, lifting it to £131,123
(= 33 p.c. of the book value of fixed
assets), the net result was 11 p.c.
on the £280,000 of paid capital,
compared with 10, 7.6, 6.1, a loss, 8.8,
6.7, 8.1 and 8.3 p.c. back to 1928. Half
a point was added to the div., making
8 p.c. for the year, the final being at the
rate of 9 p.c. p.a.
Plant additions and improvements,
already referred to, are reflected in a
growth of £26,917 in the book value of
fixed assets:
1921. 1927. 1935. 1936.
Paid capital.. £210,000 £280,000 £280,000 £280,000
Liabilities* .. 16,205 18,594 26,463 24,616
Freeholds,
mac hinery,
plant, etc... 162,031 255,612 369,657 396,574
Stocks.. .. 30,851 63,545 30,277 36,717
Go v e r nment
securities, etc. 16.000 15,910 15,000 15,000
Sundry debtors 1 f 33.861 34,708
Cash, etc. ..f 65 ’ 211 32 ’ 69() 1 22,068 7,205
* Including provision for taxation.
To meet the outlay on plant, carry an
extra £6440 of stocks and reduce the
amount coming to sundry creditors,
which includes an unspecified provision
for taxation, by £1943, cash, etc., was
drawn on for £14,863 ; surplus earnings,
including provision for depreciation, pro-
vided the balance. The year’s contrac-
tion in the more or less liquid surplus
(£69,114) was only £5629.
As for the current term, the seasonal
outlook is bright enough, and further
savings are expected to follow moderate
capital expenditure in connection with
fuel consumption. The price of raws in
the local market (now £24 per ton)
is fixed by agreement between the
Commonwealth and Queensland Gov-
ernments until the beginning of Sep-
tember, 1941. The average return to
the grower and miller will depend largely
upon the surplus exported and the price
realised abroad.
Under the new International Sugar
Agreement, which aims at regulating sup-
plies coming into world markets, and so
preventing excess production from unduly
weighing down world prices for the com-
modity, Australia has secured an irre-
ducible export quota of 400,000 long
tons, which is about 25,000 tons (6 p.c.)
below record exports for any calendar
year—last year’s exports totalled 403,000
tons. Also, according to cable reports,
the British Government has undertaken
to maintain its preference for Empire-
grown sugar at the present level (worth
over £3 per ton on Australian exports)
for the next five years. Subject to
seasonal conditions, it all augurs well
for satisfactory earnings for Australian
millers and growers.
The market prices the co.’s fully-paid
pound shares at 32s. as against 27s. 6d.
a year ago and 25s. 9d. 12 months before
that. The return at 32s. is 5 p.c. on an
8 p.c. div. basis, or 5.6 p.c. on a 9 p.c.
distribution. Excluding the deprecia-
tion reserve, the cover is 22s. lid. in net
tangibles.
{“Wild, Cat” continued on next page.)


If you have ores for sale write:-
NORMAN HILL & CO., LTD.,
Cathcart House, Sydney.
Buyers: Gold ores and concentrates, Silver Lead
ores, Molybdenite, Scheelite, Wolfram, Tin ores,
etc., etc.
The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Company, Limited
Castlereagh Street and Martin Place,
SYDNEY.
Founded 1886.
The M.L.C. has money to lend on
first-class securities at lowest current
rates of interest.
APPLICATIONS INVITED.
ASSETS EXCEED £25,000,000
ANNUAL INCOME EXCEEDS
£3,500,000
W. J. Bloomfield, 8.A., LL.B., Arthur Eedy,
Joint Managing Director. Managing Director.
EUME TD THE
LEIPZIG
TRADE FAIR
Q
(GERMANY).
Plan your seasonal buying profit-
ably at this world-famous market.
Thousands of exhibitors from 2 3
different countries offer the newest
and best merchandise at prices that
allow most favourable resale margins.
AUTUMN FAIR Commences AUG. 29
Comprising General Samples Fairs, Textiles,
Sports Goods, Engineering and Great Building
* Fairs.
Information (including Travel Marks and Aski Trading Marks)
available of LARS G. BRUNDAHL, Commissioner in Australia
for the Leipzig International Industries Fair, Challis House,
Martin Place, G.P.O. Box 3127 P, Sydney; C. N. KEPPEL,
Temple Court, 422 Collins Street, G.P.O. Box 20245, Mel-
bourne; H. C. ITTERSHAGEN, Shenton Park, W. Australia.
Public Notice.
FDRESTRY BONDS.— Those wishing to sell
N.Z. Perpetual Forests Ltd. Investments
will get hignesi prices by communication with
G.P.O. BOX 1765 (Melbourne).
SEND YOUR
ENQUIRIES FOR
MINING MACHINERY
STAMP BATTERIES
CONCENTRATORS
MAGNETIC SEPARATORS
AMALGAMATING TABLES
WATER FILTERS
EVERLASTING VALVES
ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT
MOTORS AND SWITCHGEAR
GARBAGE DESTRUCTORS
ALL CLASSES OF TOOLS-
GUTHRIDCE, LTD.,
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
Sydney.
Bon Marche, Ltd. (Sydney)
, Dividends. , Towards
Net Pref. Re-
Profit. 74 p.c. Ordinary. serves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £ £
1927.. 23,756 6000 7J p.c. = 7600 10,256 7,953
Reserves.
Assets written up. £25,000 .. .. 17,047
1928.. 22,352 6540 8 p.c. = 8000 7,812 24,859
1929.. 15,650 7500 8 „ „ 8000 150 25,009
1930.. 11,140 7500 6 „ „ 6000
Loss.
1931.. 9,858 3750* Nil
1932.. 7,913 Nil Nil
Deficit.
Written off investments, £2625 .. 1,497
1933.. 17,875 Nil Nil
Insurance reserve ( £5000) taken in .. 14,372
1934.. 7,353 Nil Nil
1935.. 1,573 Nil Nil
Profit.
1936.. 8,335 Nil Nil 8,335 14,963
1937.. 8,766 7500 Nil 1,266 13,697
* Half-year’s div. to August, 1930.
This department store, which trades
largely on a t.-p. basis, is an offshoot of
Marcus Clark and Cos., in Railway-
square, a few hundred yards down the
street. Paid capital is £200,000, of which
one half is prefs. and the other half ords.
The parent owns the ords. and the public
is interested in the prefs., which carry a
cumulative l-\ p.c., reduced to 5.8 p.c.
under the N. S. Wales Interest Reduc-
tion Act. The obvious effects of slump
and its concomitants are a run of losses
aggregating £44,572 over the five years
to the close of accounts in 1935 and the
absence of divs. Profits have showed up
for each of the last two years, and pay-
ments to the prefs. was resumed in
April; but it is difficult to say when
arrears of pref. divs., which amounted
to nearly £32,000 (5| years) at the close
of last accounts, will be paid.
Slump has left its legacies. Com-
menting on last year’s operations, the
chairman said:
Although employment continued to im-
prove, each forward move was succeeded
by a slight setback, and we were more
than glad when an excellent Christmas
trade enabled us to show a better net
profit, after providing £ll3O more for
direct taxation Owing to the lower
average earning power of the individual,
the average purchase is also lower, and a
much larger number of transactions is
necessary to enable us to achieve a pay-
able sales turnover We have been suc-
cessful, but not yet to the extent that we
hope and expect to achieve.
The net result was £431 better at £8766,
of which £7500 (7£ p.c.) was handed to
the prefs. in respect of the year to
August 1, 1931. The other £1266 re-
duced the deficit on shareholders’ account
to £13,697. From Oct. 1, 1931, the pref.
div. was reduced to approximately 5.8
p.c. p.a., as already explained. Last
year’s net earnings were £2900-odd in ex-
cess of these minimum pref. require-
ments. At that rate, and assuming all
profit was distributed, it would take about
11 years to completely wipe out arrears
of pref. divs. It is not proposed to make
any further payments to the prefs. until
after the close of next accounts.
The market prices the scrip, fully-paid
to £l, at 14s. 6d. as against 16s. a year
ago. At the lower figure the return is
8 p.c. on a 5.8 p.c. div. basis, plus arrears
when paid. The cover was 375. 3d. in net
tangibles. The. ords. are not listed.
Thd financial position improved:
1930. 1934. 1936. 1937.
Paid capital.. £200,000 £200,000 £200,000 £200,000
Liabilities .. 82,098 95.399 1 118,861 120,474
Freeholds and
leaseholds .. 124,205 122,762 122,983 122,451
Plant, etc. .. 18,144 15,332 14,919 14,374
Stock.. . . 40,856 26,360 24,780 23,548
Book debts .. 126,350 108,735 140,566 153,119
Investments,
cash, etc... 9,943 484 695 786
Chief movement in the figures was a
growth of £12,553 in debtors’ balances,
owing mainly to larger trade in house-
hold furniture and furnishings. Stocks
were down £1232, and only £1613 Was
added to the outside debt. The more or
less liquid surplus (£56,979) was £9799
stronger than at the previous balance.
British Standard Machinery Cos., Ltd.
This Sydney co. is on the market with
20,000 7 p.c. cum. prefs. and 10,000 ords.,
all of £1 each. The money is wanted to
finance further expansion of the busi-
ness. When fully subscribed and paid
the issue, will lift paid capital to £75,607
in 24,000 7 p.c. cum. prefs. and 51,607
ords.
The co. imports and distributes tractors,
and also manufactures a large variety of
machines (21 lines in all) for road-making
and maintenance, tank-sinking, concrete
and bridge work, timber-getting, farm-
ing, etc. The agency, from Siskol
Machines, Ltd., Sheffield (Eng.), covers
Siskol channelling machines, coal-cutters,
rock drills, etc. The terms of the agree-
ment are not set out in the prospectus.
The business was founded by W. H.
Reardon and E. R. Blackadder, present
managing directors, in 1924, with a capi-
tal of about £4OOO. After allowing for
reasonable drawings, the capital account
had grown out of surplus earnings to
approximately £40,000 at the end of
1936, profits being earned all through
the slump. For the three years to June
30, 1936, the auditors certify to net earn-
ings of £2491, £3621 and £4779 respec-
tively. For the six months to the end
of December last, the net result (amount
not stated) is said to have been suffi-
cient to pay a half-year’s div. at the rate
of 7 p.c. p.a. on the prefs. and 12 p.c. p.a.
on the ords., including the new issue.
On this basis the co. was netting £7873
or more per annum.
When the present co. took over the
partnership business at the beginning of
January, paid capital was £45,607, of
which £9500 was represented by good-
will, patents, patterns, etc. There was
a reserve of £4BO to offset moderate pre-
liminary exes, of £487. Plant, etc.,
figured at £6868, and was independently
valued at £2OOO more than that. Stock
was in at £13,727, debtors’ balances
totalled £37,379, and cash, etc., £678. A
good slice of the business is done with
shire and municipal councils in N. S.
Wales and Victoria, and most of the
balance is covered by hire-purchase con-
tracts. During the last few years bad
debts have been less than one-half of
one per cent, on turnover, which for the
last nine months has been at the rate of
£140,000 p.a. The immediate outlook
favors maintenance of turnover.
Both classes of scrip are to be listed.
The prefs. have priority as to divs. and
capital, and equal voting rights with the
ords. On the basis of net earnings for
the six months to the end of December
last, their annual requirements (£1680)
were more than four times covered. The
net tangible backing is approximately
555. per share prefs. and 16s. ords.
On the board are W. H. Reardon and
E. R. Blackadder (managing), F. J. Wallis
and W. A. Mirow.
Mt. Lyell has declared an interim div.
of Is. 6d. per share, which is at the rate
of 15 p.c. p.a. At 48s. 6d. the return
would be 6.3 p.c. on a 15 p.c. div.. basis.
Prospects of the co. earning sufficient to
pay a higher final div. in respect of the
current term appear bright enough. After
meeting all costs, including the tax bill,
and allowing £76,759 for depreciation,
prospecting, etc., the co. netted £187,199
(12 p.c. on capital), of which £70,000-odd
came from investments, for the 12
months to September 30 last. The Lon-
don price of electrolytic averaged £4O
14s. Bd. for the year, equal to £ASO 18s.
4d., and the co. turned out 12,707 tons
of copper at an all-in cost of £42 14s.
lOd. For the first half of the current
term, electrolytic averaged £57 3s. 2d. in
London, equal to £A73 Bs. 1 Id. Assum-
ing that electrolytic averages £A73 for
the 12 months to September 30 next, and
allowing for a 10 p.c. rise in all-in costs
(wages have been lifted), appearances are
that the co. will net sufficient to be able
to pay a final div. of, say, 2s. 6d. per
share, making 4s. for the year. Much,
of course, will depend upon what the
outlook is six months hence, and upon
the co.’s policy for future development.
* * * *
Papua Oil Development Cos., Ltd., a
pup of the Shell Cos., has an exclusive
oil-prospecting permit covering 20,000
sq. miles extending nor’-west and north
from the Gulf of Papua. The Fly,
Strickland, Bamu and Turama rivers
provide ingress to the hinterland from
the coast, and, since recent results at-
tending the co.’s search for oil have been
favorable, a much larger Shell staff and
a fleet of about a dozen speedboats is
being established in Papua. Oriomo Oil
and its affiliate, Oil Search, have a
12,000-sq.-mile area to the north and
east of Papua Oil; excepting the wild
and mountainous region representing the
watershed of the New Guinea river sys-
tem, Islands Exploration Cos. (associated
with Vacuum Oil) has a permit (21,000
sq. miles) covering the rest of the coun-
try west to the Dutch border. Oil Search
and Vabuum Oil interests have permits
embracing the entire coast of the Man-
dated Territory down to the Huon Gulf.
The Shell people are showing great in-
terest and activity at present.
$ * * *
The closing of Georgetown Gold
Mines on the Etheridge field (N.Q.) was
not unexpected. Crushings were never
up to expectations, and last year’s opera-
tions were unprofitable. Poor values in
the lower sections of the winze from the
262 ft. level decided the co. to suspend
operations. The plant is to be sold.
Registered in 1934, the co. took over the
three Hawkins Hill leases, formerly good
producers, from N.Q. Mining Pty.
Locally, interest is now centred on the
new lode discovered at Mount Jack,
about four and a half miles south-west
of Forsayth. Over a mile of claims has
been pegged; the lode prospects up to
2£oz., but a lot of work is necessary
before average values can be ascertained.
* * * *
A couple of old copper shows are being
reopened in N.Q. One is the Bloodwood,
Mount Gossan, which has been idle for
the last 10 years but which still contains
a lot of fair ore; the other is the Red-
bank at Woollogorong. Situated in the
Gulf country west of Burketown and
almost on the N.T. border, Redbank is
Queensland’s remotest mine. The first
80 tons of stone sent to Chillagoe last
year averaged 35 p.c. copper. At the
mine is some 200 tons of ore awaiting
delivery to Burketown for shipment to
Chillagoe. For five months of the year
roads are impassable.
* $ * #
Manganese-mining is on the up-grade
in Queensland, where there has been no
production worth mentioning over the
last 10 years. Now Queensland Ores
Development, Ltd., is mining over 100
tons of high-grade ore weekly at Ama-
moor, on the North Coast. Another
syndicate has commenced developmental
work on leases in the Kandanga district,
and new deposits at Imbil, assaying 53
p.c., are being investigated. Traces of
the mineral have also been located in the
Kilkivan district.
* * * *
North Queensland has the nucleus of
a big iron-and-steel industry in extensive
iron-ore deposits on the new Claudie
River (late Portland Roads) goldfield,
Cape York Peninsula. According to
Herbert Gepp, director of the North Aus-
tralian aerial, geological and geophysical
there is evidence of “millions of tons of
commercially valuable iron ore to be
easily won.” The deposit is near the
coast, with good harbor facilities.
* * * *
According to the annual report of
Westralia’s Under-Secretary for Mines,
estimated value of mineral output of the
State last year was £7,844,188 (up
£1,724,757), of which gold accounted for
£7,373,539, coal £331,565, arsenic £89,143,
silver £11,773, felspar £9170, tantalite
£BBI2, gypsum £7569, tin £6882, -asbes-
tos £2300, lead ore £2228, glauconite
£1095. Gold dividends at £1,078,838
were £11,618 lighter, notwithstanding that
an extra 582,202 tons of ore was treated,
making 2,492,034 tons in all. The num-
ber of men engaged in the industry was
16,652 (up 1095), and each produced an
average of £442 worth of gold. To the
end of last year , the Government pros-
pecting scheme had cost the. State £89,942,
of which £15,395 had been returned by
successful prospectors.
* * * *
At the northern end of Kalgoorlie
(W.A.), London-controlled Mt. Char-
lotte has put down five bores. Western
Mining Corp. has taken up a number of
leases in the locality, and one area pegged
includes Kalgoorlie’s public garden and
swimming-baths. The Kapai mine and
near-by claims are under option to J. F.
Thomson, who is offering them to English
interests. Hannan’s North, operated by
B.H. Prop., has also given a fillip to
recent activity by increasing the size of
its holdings. Golden Mile Block 45 has
downed tools, owing to finances ; a recent
parcel of 79 tons from the winze at the
200 ft. level averaged Bdwt. lOgr.
* * * *
Many of those on the register of Con-
solidated Gold Areas (W.A.) are still
dissatisfied with the way the board is
handling the co.’s affairs. The secretary
of the Kalgoorlie shareholders’ com-
mittee (J. J. Lynch) says: “Work on the
mine is slow and costs are very high,
being twice as much as other mines doing
purely development work.”
* $ # *
Celebration (W.A.) has reported its
best clean-up to date, 4050 tons yielding
954 fine oz. Treatment was extended
over five weeks. Most of the ore came
through the Celebration shaft, Golden
Hope supplying the remainder.
* * * *
Corona Gold (W.A.) is about to haul
down its flag by going into voluntary
liquidation. Floated in 1934, the co. took
an option in the Mt. Magnet district, but
overseas investors failed to bite.
$ * * Hs
The Federal Statistician’s revised esti-
mate of Australian gold production for
1936 compares with the 1935 figures as
follows:
1935. 1936.
Fine Oz. Fine Oz.
N.' S. Wales .. .. 50,102 60,739
Victoria 87.609 113,940
Queensland .. ... 102,990 115,550
South Australia .. .. 7,333 7,681
Westralia 649,049 846,208
Tasmania .. .. .. 8,343 17,600
Northern Territory .. 9,310 7,583
Australia 914,736 1,169,301
Total production (up 254,5650 z.), the
best since 1919, was worth, in sterling,
£8,098,996 (up £1,692,331). Output con-
tinues to expand.
INVENTORS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,'
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.—Advt.
* h= $
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 483
Collins Street. Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Cos. (Melb.). — Advt,
* 4: * *
AUSTRALASIAN timberlands and plantation
valuation surveys, milling plants, certification of
shipments. L. MACINTOSH ELLIS, B.Se. (late
Director State Forest Service, New Zealand), Consult-
ing Forest Engineer, 8 Bond Street, Sydney.— Advt.
* St * *
RARE MINERALS AND METALS—Ask O. T.
LEMPRIERE & CO. PTY., LTD., Collins House,
Melbourne, and Sirius House, Sydney, for advice
regarding value and marketing of rare minerals and
metals. — Advt.
$ * * *
FERRODOR (Anti-corrosive) PAINT has saved
many thousands of pounds in repairs and repaintings.
For all wooden, steel or iron structures. Will not
blister or crack. Sole Agents, William Adams and
Company, Ltd., 175 Clarence Street, Sydney.— Advt.


SMOKE-OH!
The Draper Began It.
As I was sitting drinking box
I heard the crowing of the cox
Above the turmoil of the dox
* And chiming of the city clox;
/ saw the girls in summer frox,
An inch or two above their hox,
Tripping by in troops and flox,
Watched by admiring Jims and Jox —
/ liked the light upon their lox.
If any fellow jeers or mox
I’m ready with some good hard knox;
i’ll rub his head against the rox,
And ram him in the public stox
Among the goats and oafs and crox
And nincompoops and jabberwox,
And give him shivers, creeps and shox.
Arnold Wall.
*£»
“Dramatist says he will write a play incor-
porating all the best-known jokes.”
What’s the use —it’ll never get past the
censor!
4* *•* 4* 4*
“The plain girl doesn’t have a very good
time on an ocean cruise,” declares a writer.
The sad truth is that the plain girl does
have a good time.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Women dress to please men.” —News item.
We thought it was to give the next
generation a chance to laugh at the family
album.
*2# »2«
It is now revealed that Shakspeare was
born on Shirley Temple’s birthday.
4* 4* 4* *l*
“Most women delight in giving jars of jam
and preserves to their friends.”
, — Woman’s paper.
The jars reserved for husband don’t
have any jam.
4* 4* 4* 4*
I find that my car is a wonderful pal
When I’m seeking the joy of the
feminine smile,
And l never consider the miles to the
gal.
As long as 1 know there are gals to
the mile.
T. W. N.
*2* *J«
Coronation Etiquette.
As an ex-lady-in-waiting who spent
many years juggling a tray during rush
periods at Court, may I be permitted to
offer a few hints on etiquette to those
who will attend the Coronation by radio?
Informal wear is permissible during the
earlier part of the proceedings, though
“Wot about rollin' one orf fer Coronation Week?"
gentlemen possessing them should wear
1 / o r decorat *°ns, such as football medals,
v.R.C. membership badge, etc., while
listening.
Keep an old hat beside the radio
cabinet to throw up at appropriate
moments during the procession. If you
desire to cheer, remember the correct
Jorm is “Hurrah!” not “’Ooray!”
Ladies may show their approbation by
waving a handkerchief. While listening-
ij e formal ceremonies later you
snould wear evening-dress, but an over-
coat may be worn over the pyjamas if
desired. For lady-listeners the restrained
formality of a red flannelette nightie will
be in the best taste.
I would advise those who will wait up
for the banqueting broadcasts to get the
bottles open before they tune in, as one
is expected to honor every toast. This
should be done standing, but one may
hang on to the mantelpiece after the first
half-dozen. Work the dial to get a maxi-
mum of toasting and a minimum of
speechmaking.
Aggie McWhoosh.
* * * *
“Fashionable fiancees desire a ring with a
history:”— Women’s paper.
They often get one without knowing it.
t + + +
Steam is merely water perspiring with
the heat.
•h
“The clown or buffoon seems to have died
out. ’ ’ —" Tele graph
Or gone to the Coronation, all ex-
penses paid.
❖ 4* 4* .
“Wherever he went a rival frankfurt-vendor
followed. — '‘Sun."
Hot-dogging his footsteps.
■i 1 •£• 4* 4*
True Fraternity.
“Loyalist trenches are barely 120 ft. from
those of the insurgents in places. This enables
the rival soldiers to exchange badinage, the
nature of which is surprisingly friendly.
“Loyalist dugouts are furnished with chairs
and tables, and the walls are adorned with
pictures.”—“s. M. Herald."
Don Carlos opened the refrigerator
and placed four bottles of English ale
on the polished table.
“Ricardo,” he sighed, “I’m bored. Go
and invite a couple of those insurgent
cows to drink with us.”
Ricardo lazily dragged himself from
the tapestried divan on which he’d been
sprawling, tossed his silk-tipped cigarette
into the satinwood smoker’s stand,
strolled out into the trench and yelled:
“Hey, there, you disloyal lice! Cum-
anavadrink! ”
A rush across no-man’s-land and the
rival soldiers poured into the dugout.
“Sacramento, Don Carlos,” exclaimed
one of the insurgents as he indicated the
paintings on the walls, “what, magnifi-
cent pictures! Velasquez, aren’t tney?
Ah, and those beautiful goblets—Carlos,
they’re priceless!” he enthused as he
flicked a glass to test its ring.
Don Carlos smiled indulgently and,
while he knocked the tops off, Ricardo
made their guests comfortable in deep
lounge-chairs.
“Well, gentlemen,” suggested Don
Carlos as he filled the gleaming goblets,
“let’s drink to the day we’ll blow all
you scum to blazes!”
“A pretty wit, a damned pretty wit,
sir,” laughed one of the enemy heartily.
"But you won’t be so cocky, Carlos,
when you’re drawn and quartered.”
Everybody roared with mirth. Numer-
ous toasts were honored, while Ricardo
glass at elbow, sat at the grand piano
and rendered a syncopated version of
“Pennies from Heaven.” Suddenly, a
bugle sounded.
“Gosh, that’s our ‘fall-in! ’ ” Don
Carlos exclaimed. “We’re due to raid
you fellows after luncheon if it doesn’t
rain.” »
+ , " Wh u at 7 a • crin , lson nuisance,” snapped
the rebels m chorus. “We wanted to
listen-in to the Paris Grand Prix this
afternoon.”
As his guests clambered over the para-
pet, Don Carlos playfully speeded them
with the point of his bayonet,
P. M.
•i* *
“To Arthur she was everything that mat-
tered in life, his soul mate; but Harry detested
her.” — Woman’s paper.
Another case of one man’s mate being
another’s poison.
*l*
“The romance started at a bargain sale.”
—Social news.
She marked him down.
•b •b
“Continual thefts of fowls are upsetting
poultry-farmers.”—“s. M. Herald.”
And continual poaching of eggs is up-
setting many boarders.
•b
“Why did you kiss her in the dark ?”
Her old man frothed and thundered.
And, since I’ve seen her in the light,
I, too, have blankly wondered 7
Perc.
'l* *s* -b -I-
Minding My Own Business.
I read where some racing bloke
reckons his “horse’s running has got no-
thing to do with the public.” I’ve always
thought that way myself about racing,
so once when a jockey told me a “good
“It's the doctor, dear. He Wants to know how I feel. What shall I say?”
thing” 1 put six weeks’ wages (the previ-
ous week’s and the next five weeks’)
on it.
At barrier-rise the jockey pulled him
round the wrong way. I laughed.
“What’s it got to do with me?” I said.
Even then he might have won. The
boy lost control and the horse bolted.
All else failing, the jockey jumped off.
It was the funniest thing I’d seen for
years. “And it’s got nothing to do with
me,” I guffawed hysterically. “I’ll just
go and have five bob on Clever Joke —
it’s a good omen.”
Clever Joke won at 100 to 1, but 1
couldn’t find the bookmaker.
“Don’t worry,” said the racecourse
detective. “We’ll catch the cow all right.”
“Don’t do that,” I begged. “It would
spoil the whole joke. Ha, ha!”
But the funniest thing happened as I
was walking happily homewards. I was
hit on the head with a sandbag.
“Go through his pockets while I keep
nit,” I heard one of the humorists say.
“Help yourself,” 1 invited. “I don’t
see that it’s got anything at all to do with
me, anyway.”
S. Esq.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Dentist becomes station-owner.”— “D.T.”
From achers to acres.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Man smashes his saxophone over burglar’s
head.”
Well, that’s less barbarous than play-
ing it at him.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Hints for Husbands.
VIII. — General Management.
The popular impression among wives
is that if a man were left to run a home
he would be ripe for the attentions of
the Official Assignee within a month. A
husband might be a champion lightning
calculator and a financial wizard com-
bined ; he might even be clever enough
to get a refund on his income tax; but
to his wife he is a muddling quarter-wit
when it comes to the practical applica-
tion oi true domestic economy. It is
high time the fallacy was exploded.
Instead of following the narrow
methods adopted by wives in the settling
of bills, husbands should bring to the
task the best principles of commercial
usage.
As an example, let us consider
the milk bill. Wives, for some goofy
reason, always demand that the bill be
left regularly on a certain day, so that
they may settle up immediately. Imagine
a businessman rushing in to pay every bill
as it fell due! Why, the thought itself
is a menace. Just arrange for the milk-
man to leave the bill quarterly, or, better
still, half-yearly. Analyse the difference
in the two systems. Your wife, settling
weekly, sets aside the anticipated amount,
say, roughly, 7s. 4|d. She can’t deny that
she got four pints on Tuesday morning.
But under the six-monthly scheme it is
easy to swear, when you challenge the
bill on June 30, that you distinctly re-
member getting only 1| pints on Feb.
14, because that was the day after little
Eric had a stomach turn, and the doctor
put him on boiled water only.
Can even a milkman think back and
positively say he left three pints that
morning? He’ll be stumped, and you
therefore save on \\ pints in one fell
swoop. There is an example of commer-
cial methods which wives are too un-
imaginative to exploit.
Another advantage of this long-term-
settlement idea, apart from the consider-
able interest saved, is that in the interim
there is always the possibility that the
milkman might get run over with a steam-
roller or win the lottery; in either event,
he is scarcely likely to retain a profound
interest in the few miserable bob you
owe him. The same methods would
apply, of course, to all tradesmen.
To meet these long-distance debts you
will have to provide special Amortisation
Funds, one for each bill. Select a horse
that you fancy and associate it with one
particular bill; thus: Deadlegs for the
milkman, Cronkwind for the greengrocer,
etc. You accurately assess the bill you
wish to provide for at, say, between £5
and £l5. If you have a bob each way
on each horse at every start, all up a
100-to-l shot in the following race, you
will be stiff if you don’t click once during
six months. Thus you combine your
favorite sport with methodical and accu-
rate household management, while, there
is always the possibility that all your
horses may come off together and land
you on Easy-street. Could a mere woman
devise such a scheme as that ?
The maintenance of adequate stocks is
another way in which husbands can estab-
lish their superiority as home-runners.
What husband, about to sit down to his
tea, has not inwardly cursed to hear:
“Oh! I just thought of it —we’re right
out of tea; do be a darling and run up
to the corner for me?” Don’t allow
laxity such as this to spoil your manage- :
ment. Order a case of jam or tea, a
barrel of vinegar or a box of butter at
a time. Don’t muck about with fiddling
little quantities. If it’s bag blue, order a
gross; then there’ll be no holding up
washing operations while you take off
your apron, have a shave and get dressed
again just to go up the road and buy a
lousy “quarter dozen.” Moreover, think
of what you’ll save if prices go up!
To combat the itinerant hawker, hus-
bands should develop a high sales resis-
tance. Excellent practice may be ob-
tained by sitting in front of the wireless
and when, after they’ve played “Build a
Little Home” and start on the blah about
the easy- term payments for Blinkwop’s
furniture, keep saying in a firm voice
(adopt also a terrific frown): “No! we
have all we want—shut the gate,” start-
ing off diminuendo and working up to a
shout. When a hawker does call and you
repeat this formula, wait for his reaction.
If he slinks off, all is well. But if he
says: “ the gate!” don’t come back
with: “You beast! I’ll tell my wife!”
He might have a snappy answer to that.
Just fork out for the two cakes of
camphor or the potholder.
S. W. K.


More Baskets for
a few Eggs!
'"THAT is what every investor wants. If you have a
A few hundred pounds or, more particularly, only
£25 you hesitate to put all your capital “into one
basket.” Here, however, is an investment with a wide
spread and attractive interest yield. FIRST AUSTRA-
LIAN UNIT TRUST CERTIFICATES provide 20
carefully-chosen, sound “baskets” —the securities shown
above —for investors of £25 and upwards. The interest
yield is approx. 4£%, and a world-famous institution,
Union Insurance Society of Canton, Ltd.
(Union Building, Bond Street, Sydney), acts as your
Custodian Trustees. The Certificates are realisable at any
time.
Send for explanatory booklet No. 1
to the Managers of the Trust : —
AUSTRALIAN FIXED TRUSTS PTY., LTD.,
8-14 BOND STREET. SYDNEY.
TELEPHONE: 85294.
BOX 4028 V.V., G-P.O.
f
The Worlds Best *
BATTERIES
FOR CARS 8c TRUCKS
C.A.V. Battery Agents.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Harris Scarfe & Sandovers, Ltd., Hay Street,
PERTH.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Smith & Dove, 125 Pirie Street, ADELAIDE.
VICTORIA: E. A. Machin & Co. Pty., Ltd., 535 Elizabeth Street,
MELBOURNE.
NEW SOUTH WALES: Bennett & Wood, Ltd., Pitt and Bathurst Streets,
SYDNEY.
Service Station: 15 Wentworth Avenue.
Business.Rollery,Etc.
Rothsay Gold Mines, N.L.
A Sydney shareholder in Rothsay
Gold Mines, N.L., has expressed to The
Bulletin his disappointment with results
and his concern about the delay in get-
ting to full production. He also com-
plains that reports have lately been few
and not very illuminating, and that
notice of the last annual meeting, held
in Adelaide, did not allow him reason-
able time to attend. The printed date of
the notice was March 19, 1937 ; the
meeting was at 11.30 a.m. on March 31.
There are other shareholders in Sydney
with sour feelings, for the. story of Roth-
say to date has been sad. The co. was
formed in May, 1934, and took up
options at Rothsay, on the Yalgoo (W.A.)
held, paying £15,000 cash and handing
over 75,000 shares of 2s. 6d. each.
The. public subscribed £53,125 in cash
for the new float, making paid capital
£62,500 in 500,000 2s. 6d. shares.
In The Bulletin of 30/5/’34 a par.
appeared which mentioned the over-
subscription of the shares; also that
The show was first worked 38 years ago
by a London co. [Woodley’s Reward],
which gave up owing to copper difficulties.
Others tried their luck from time to time,
but drew blanks. B.H. Prop, did some
boring last year. The flotation process
is now expected to overcome any trouble
in connection with the presence of copper
in the ore.
The first plant put in by the present co.,
however, was a cyanide outfit. It cost,
with buildings, etc., about £lO,OOO, and it
has involved shareholders in endless
worry since. The original capital, it
seems, was in any case insufficient to buy
a flotation plant and provide for
development.
In Sept., 1934, there was talk of
profits of 235. a ton from slimes alone,
and mine reports about this time were
promising; “development at No. 3 N.
shaft is better than expected It is
expected that this shaft will open up a
large tonnage of good-grade ore.” Bulk
samples from widths of 3ft. and 4ft. going
lOdwt. were reported in the main shaft,
British Queen lease ; “promising parallel
reefs” on the Redemption Deeps were
also mentioned, values 9dwt.
On Nov. 8, 1934, geologist C. E.
Gibson reported that “this gives the
amount of probable ore... .from present
developments on the property to be
120,000 tons of an indicated grade of
not less than B|dwt. per ton Favor-
able developments in depth or along the
strike of the reef could easily provide
sufficient ore to considerably add to these
estimates, and there are good grounds
for reasonably expecting that such may
occur.”
in January, 1935, there were sales
of Rothsay shares at 14s. Early in
March, 1935, the battery commenced
crushing, and towards the end of the
month the shares started to dip, though
“cyanide very satisfactory” was reported.
“Regular crushings commenced April
1,” and “plant working satisfactorily”
tended to reassure shareholders the next
month. But by June there were sales of
the scrip at 6s. Bd. The presence of
copper in the ore became generally
known, and the scrip took to the skids
in August, slumping to 2s. 7d. by the
end of 1935. The. first year’s operations
showed a loss of £24,856, including de-
velopment expenditure.
In October of 1935 it was decided to
issue £20,000 of debentures, repayable
on Nov. 1, 1937, plus a bonus of
£l6 per cent., in order to add a flota-
tion section to the plant, which, in its
then existing form, could not effectively
deal with the ore. Ore reserves at
31/7/’35 were officially estimated at
57,500 tons, average value Bdwt. Treat-
ment by the old plant was suspended at
the end of November that year.
The new plant was originally to cost
no more than £15,000, “and might be
less.” However, though at June 30, 1936,
the co. had £14,484 in the bank and in
hand (the p. and 1. debit had meantime
mounted to £33,862), in October, 1936,
it was deemed necessary to issue another
£12,500 of debentures, carrying, like
the £20,000 already issued, the right
to convert into 500 f.-p. shares for each
£IQO debenture. The directors at this
stage noted that the manager’s estimate
of ore reserves (“59,000 tons”) varied
from Mr. Gibson’s figure of 120,000
tons “proved and probable,” but men-
tioned that values (Bdwt.) were in both
opinions the same.
On March 24 last the board advised
that all plant should be supplied, in-
stalled and ready .to work before the end
of April, and that the debenture issue
had met the additional outlay. Share-
holders also noted with some hope that
Regular development and production re-
ports will be published from the mine after
the commencement of operations. The
mine outlook remains unchanged, and
from this" point of view the position is con-
sidered satisfactory.
In January this year there was a sale
of the 2s. 6d. scrip in Melbourne, at
2s. 4d. In March quotes had dropped
to Is. 6d., and last week there were
sales at lOd. The fact that “the mine
outlook” is considered satisfactory by
the board does not appear to have im-
bued shareholders with great confidence.
The varying estimates of ore reserves in
themselves call for an independent repoit
by a mining engineer, and though the
first section of the plant, which by itself
proved unsuitable, was erected in short
time, the planning, designing and erec-
tion of the new flotation section has to
date taken 17 months from the day on
which the original plant shut down after
its preliminary run.
Triton, another (larger) Westralian
show, was in production two years after
flotation, and had paid a div. inside three
years. It is little wonder that original
Rothsay shareholders are fed up with
their show, because of the long uncer-
tainty of the position on the mining, mill-
ing and financial sides, and because of
the £32,500 of debentures calling for
redemption on Nov. 1 this year at a
premium of £l6 per cent.
Mt. Lyell has declared an interim div.
of Is. 6d. a share for the half-year to
the end of March. Earnings of the
period retained in the business should
represent at least another shilling a share.
If electrolytic copper keeps at £65 sterling
(last week’s price), and nothing untoward
happens to costs or production, net
profit for the six months to Sept. 30 next
should amount to just under 4s. a share,
so that in such circumstances a final
div. of 25., making \l\ p.c. for the term,
would not be above reasonable expec-
tations. The immediate query, of course,
is the future price of copper; still, as
the months go by, and the average price
of the metal is ascertained, the foregoing
figures should be some guide to results,
according to whether copper fetches
above or below £65 sterling over the
half-year.
* * * *
Broken Hill Prop, shares came up
again firmly last week, as they were ex-
pected to do here. The contribs. lifted
to over 795. on Thursday, and business
was done in the fully-paids at 85s. The
yield., allowing for the div. accrued, is
about 3 p.c.; but the future is full of
promise, and there have been attractive
extras in the way of new issues from
time to time.
* * * *
People have written to this office lately
saying that canvassers from some com-
pany or other have approached them
stating that their proposition has the full
approval of The Bulletin. The Bul-
letin has the habit of expressing its ap-
proval or otherwise in print, and would-
be investors are advised to ask for a
copy of the actual write-up if any claims
of Bulletin “approval” are made.
* * * *
A buyer who takes the long view when
he buys, except if he happens to be deal-
ing in ice-cream or this season’s mil-
linery, can generally sit tight and come
through profitably even if all sorts of
market fireworks happen meanwhile.
That is why shares in solid industrial
concerns with their roots in various coun-
tries’ industrial welfare mostly withstood
recent market nervousness. Those which
didn’t may have been overvalued. In
any case, all are coming back to a fair
price now. It goes to show that indus-
tries which are not obsolete or over-
capitalised, and commodities which are
essential and not overproduced, always
have a future, irrespective of the recur-
ring upsets which happen to markets.
Wool, lead and tin are items which at
present seem likely to command at least
a reasonably remunerative price in future
years; they are not overproduced, nor
does there seem to be a likelihood of
great overproduction. Average demand
over the years promises to be steady.
He * # *
The average London price of lead in
March was £33 a ton ; in April, when
the big reaction took place, £25 18s. lid.
The corresponding figures for spelter
were £33 ss. lid. and £26 ss. 7d.; for
electrolytic copper, £77 Os. lid. and £67
10s. Bd.; for tin, £283 ss. 7d. and £267
Bs. 7d. Early-May quotes were below
April averages, but, especially in Mt.
Lyell’S case, they should be highly pro-
fitable if maintained.
* * * *
In spite of the fact that Australian
Paper Manufacturers’ pref. issue has tech-
nically encroached on the rights of share-
holders in the holding cos., and was, in
any case, made in a manner to dis-
appoint those shareholders, the business
itself is a profitable one. In order to
pay 8 p.c. on the subscribed capital of
the holding cos. (at present not fully
paid up) and meet the new pref. require-
ments, the working co. would need to
net £212,219 and holding-co. office
exes., or about £lB,OOO more than
was shown for the year to June 30
last. As time goes on, income should
benefit from the new plant additions in
the Sydney and Melbourne Kraft-paper
and board factories, and eventually from
the pulping industry it is proposed to
establish in Gippsland.
H* ❖ ❖ . #
Kandos Cement 16s. shares rose a
little last week, but at 245. 6d. the fully-
paids still yielded £6 10s. 7d. per cent.,
as against £6 7s. p.c. on Australian
Cement £1 shares at 31s. 6d. With the
Victorian co.’s scrip at that figure, on
the basis of their respective holdings in
the operating co. Kandos shares should
have been at 28s.
* * * *
In Melbourne last week:
Yarra Falls shares, ex rights, sold at 41s.
9d. The rights could be got at 10s.
Mt. Lvell lifted to 495. following announce-
ment of the dividend.
Australasian Paper ords. recovered to 335.,
after sales at 30s.
Australian Glass ords. recovered to 945.
after sales below 90s. a week or so before.
G J. Coles ords. were again popular around
£5 10s.
Yarra Falls Rights.
At 10s. each, rights to Yarra
Falls’s issue give the opportunity of
purchase, on a fully-paid basis at
40s. Issued at 305., 10s. is payable
each on July 1, Oct. 1 and Jan. 3
(1938). After Jan. 1, 1938, the
shares rank for full dividends,
which at present are a comfortable
10 p.c. p.a. It is a sound business,
and at present the fully-paids are at
425.


X<n* £jer thartl tune tc telliu&S*&t&t
/&xx bclovcS attS loving nvaj? htettilc bcl
WUtte CQKUMAJ iUU o
IvXKQ QeQRQ€ Vi AKP QO6€N
fpmbdtee* the unify
<hwz& the continuance
? th&t lctio establishedj&f’m of Cpovcttzmetit'
under tokidr thc€tnptrc has attained Itsr-'
y*wik& position' the nations .
Jt protects those ofnenand ttvmctxti?
equal justice ant? individual liberty tehieh
■2ccc the dearest"possessions c|ajreepeople—^
is proud and hopjyy in itskinshtp
the sisterlXmim-
ions. "VttH them It joins muHshinej tlur
ntent;sh ould be the lotand portion of out
Paper Shareholders* Disappointment
A decidedly dissatisfying develop-
ment affecting the rights of holders of
shares to the par value of £1,902,740 has
occurred in Melbourne and Sydney dur-
ing the past month. The reference is to
the £1,000,000 6 p.c. pref. issue made
by Australian Paper Manufacturers,
which was arranged without calling a
meeting of shareholders in Australasian
Paper and Pulp and Cumberland Paper
to approve of the issue, though an altera-
tion in the articles of association of the
working co. had to be put through, fhe
sharemarket has always understood that
shareholders in A.P. and P. and Cumber-
land “controlled” Australian , Paper
Manufacturers; the present case is some-
thing of an eye-opener.
It was thought fit on this page several
times recently to advise investment in
Cumberland Paper shares. The recom-
mendations were made in full belief that
shareholders in Cumberland and A.P.
and P. would be entitled to all benefits
emanating from the working co., and
that the same shareholders would be
given the chance of deciding what was a
benefit and what wasn’t —in other words,
that they would be given first refusal of
any new shares issued.
The shock which the market has re-
ceived is well illustrated by the fact that
Australasian Paper old ords. sold at 395.
3d. in March. Last week, ex div. and
rights (of a total value of less than Is.
6d. a share) there were sales as low as
30s. —a net drop of nearly Bs. in less
than two months. There have been no
buyers for Cumberland scrip in sight for
some days.
On April 12 a bald notice was pub-
lished in Sydney newspapers stating that
the two holding cos. would close their
books on April 24 to determine the rights
of shareholders in a new issue from the
operating co. On April 30 the abridged
prospectus offering 1,000,000 6 p.c. cum.
prefs. was advertised in Sydney and Mel
bourne. The public’s whack (100,000
shares) was oversubscribed 3j times the
same day. Scrip in the two holding cos.
was being quoted ex rights on April 27.
There is no doubt that the prefs. were
good—-so good that the question logi-
cally arises as to why shareholders in the
holding cos. were only reserved “up to
500,000 shares.” J. B. Were and Sons,
the underwriters, were allotted 400,000
shares firm before the prospectus was
issued, and already the public’s portion
is being quoted at a premium of 2s. or
more a share.
On April 6, before any announcement
of a new issue was officially made, A.P.
and P. ords were being bought to yield
a return of 4.4 p.c.; Cumberland ords.
returned 4.7 p.c. These yields alone
should have indicated to the directors of
Australian Paper Manufacturers that the
whole of the 6 p.c. pref. issue, with
priority over all other issues, would have
been acceptable for taking-up or selling
by shareholders in the holding cos., even
if the idea of putiing a prior charge over
the profits and assets of the operating co.
was not in itself entirely satisfactory to
them.
Without the express consent of share-
holders in the two holding cos., the rights
to at least £30,000 p.a. (6 p.c. on 500,000
shares) of the initial annual profit of Aus-
tralian Paper Mfrs. has passed out of
the control of those shareholders —unless
they managed to scramble in with the
mob who rushed the public issue.
Holders of the £1,000,000 of 6 p.c. prefs.
have prior rights over all other share-
holders, and the rights had already been
determined before the issue of the pros-
pectus. When that document was adver-
tised, it was all over bar shouting (or
weeping) in the space of a day.
The morning after the excitement Mel-
bourne “Argus” made some consoling
remarks: — , ' ■ :
Comment has been heard that, as the new .
issue takes precedence; over existing capi-
tal, an adverse effect on dividends paid by
the holding companies is likely, but share-
holders in Australasian Paper and Pulp and
Cumberland Paper will take the long view
and will not be influenced by this criticism.
W’hether shareholders have taken a long
view or short view, their reaction has
been short and sharp, as shown by the
already-mentioned decline in Australasian
Paper ords. The “Argus” was a bad
guesser about their “not being influ-
enced.”
The directors’ action in raising capi-
tal by the present means has shaken
confidence in the holding cos.’ scrip,
shareholders wondering just where they
get on and where they get off. The
working co.’s pref. issue has further com-
plicated an already tangled position re-
garding rights and values attached to
different classes of shares. But appar-
ently investors in the holding cos. can
do nothing about it until the next annual
meetings, when perhaps they will raise
their voices.
The check in the commodity-price
boom has already had favorable re-
actions in N. S. Wales. Metal building
products, such as solder and ingot tin,
have been reduced in price, and fibro-
cement and fibrous roofing materials
have also come down. The prompt
action by the Associated Hardware
Manufacturers shows that they are alive
to the necessity for low costs in order to
keep building activity alive. High costs,
besides being futile so far as the manu-
facturer is concerned, frighten people
from making the substantial investment
called for in putting up a home. In-
creases in the price of bricks, etc., a few
months ago had an immediate effect in
slowing down the building trade.
* * * *
Hitler, in his May Day speech, said,
“It is impossible to increase wages, as
they increase prices.” Germany, like
Britain, depends to a great extent on its
export trade, and its exports, being mainly
manufactures, have their cost made up
principally of wages. Australia is a great
exporter of raw materials —wool, wheat,
metals, etc. —and the wages factor isn’t
so obvious when those commodities meet
world competition. Where wages are a
sizable item, as in the case of butter
and dried-fruits, we have had to resort
to internal price-fixing in order to sell
the surplus without loss. Where, highly-
manufactured goods for the home market
are concerned, labor costs are even more
important; any lift makes Australian
industry additionally vulnerable to over-
seas competition, which from an internal
employment or external credit position
we cannot afford.
* * * *
Early in March Premier Blum and his
financial advisers decided to restore the
freedom of the French gold market, and
to abandon exchange control. The
Equalisation Fund, in keeping the franc
at 105 to the £, had been subjected to a
severe strain in buying all the surplus
francs offered. Removal of restrictions
brought about a drift in the franc,
which last week stood at 110 to the £l,
after going over 111. The “free” gold
market seems to be still subject to
reservations. France is having a packet
of internal financial troubles.
* * * *
Holeproof ords. have become a regu-
lar market stock on Melbourne ’Change,
sales being a daily occurrence. The price
has firmed since the shares were pointed
out here at 295. a short time ago. There
were sales at 31s. 3d. during the last fort-
night, and at 31s. last week. Yield at
the lower quote was 6.5 p.c.
* * * *
Melbourne Steamship shares were firm
in their home city last week, the price
lifting to 295. 6d. Not so long ago the
scrip could be got at 265. Div. rate is
still 6 p.c., but the yield is fair at 4.1 p.c.,
and distributions should show an increase
later.
* * * *
A monthly record of prices realised at
Commonwealth wool auctions:
Average Price Per Pound.
Greasy and
Greasy. Scoured,
d. d.
July 11.5 15.3
August .. .. .. 12.4 15.2
September .. 12.4 12.7
October .. 14.0 14.2
November .. .. 16.7 16.9
December .. .. 17.1 17.3
January .. .. 19.4 19.5
February .. . . .. 18.2 18.3
March .. . . .. 18.3 18.6
April 17.5 17.9
Ten months .. 16.6 16.8
The falling-off last month was mainly
due to the fact that offerings represented
the tail-end of the clip. Nearly
£56.000,000 (Aust.) has been realised for
the 10 months, and when the next two
months’ and London sales are taken in
over £60,000,000 should be the year’s
cheque.


FOR RANDWICK TO-DAY.
Royal Plate: Rosmead; next,
Aureus.
Coronation Cup: Curator ; next,
Osculum.
St. James Plate: Kinsfolk ; next,
Rossjoy.
Buckingham Welter: Hastate ;
next, Electron.
FOR ROSEHILL.
Novice Handicap: Dutiful.
Auburn Handicap: Bull Ant;
next, Bulldozer or Hastate.
Rosehill Handicap: Verberry;
next, Friar’s Switch.
Parramatta Mile: Hastate or
Punjab; next, Chaos.
FOR EPSOM (MELBOURNE).
Coronation Handicap: Garrio ;
next, Nissa.
Royal Stakes: Kanuri; next,
Sculpin.
Westminster Welter: Palatinate ;
next, Sarokos.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
As often happens on such occasions,
the Tatt.’s Club meeting at Randwick
was a bookmakers’ benefit. Every favor-
ite was beaten, and the last four races
went to outsiders. Though the weather
was beautiful the attendance, compared
with the club’s last annual meeting,
slumped 5000 to 17,000, and tote receipts
£6OOO to £17,300 —just over £1 a head.
More effects of silly overtaxation.
A North Queensland pastoralist, N. G.
Elliott, won the chief event of the day
with Curator. It was called the James
Barnes Plate, as a compliment to the
club’s former chairman, and there were
16 starters. A feature of the betting was
the backing of Verberry, The Bulletin’s
selection, from 14 to 1 to 6 to 1. Ver-
berry is trained by Poison, who hasn’t
been successful for a long time. Poison
thought he had saddled up a certainty,
and it was indeed “hard lines” for him
to see his horse blocked again and again,
and thus disadvantaged finally when Ver-
berry had entered upon what, with an
uninterrupted passage, would have been
a victorious run.
Curator is now trained at Rosehill by
Alf Papworth, who had Talking until Alan
Cooper gave £19,000 for that three-year-
old, whose turf future is now clouded.
Curator led over the last six furlongs ;
Verberry failed to reach him by a head.
Royal Step, who also found the going
rough, was third. Fountain drifted in
the betting and ran badly. Curator was
ridden by Papworth’s 15-year-old son
Max, who weighs 6st. 101 b. The horse
has come good and the jockey is
promising.
Might Not (20 to 1), the smallest
runner in the Flying Handicap field, suc-
ceeded with a determined run at the end
of the six furlongs. The little filly carries
the colors of a Burwood dentist, J. S.
McDonald, and is trained by Stan
Kelly; her weight was up 31b. for a vic-
tory at Kensington, and another 31b. be-
cause Finch could not make 6st. 101 b.
She had to find a way through a caval-
cade in the straight, but got up in time
to down Mohican by half a neck, with
Heroic Faith, still squibby, three parts
of a length back. Aureus and High
Speech cut at each other in front until
both were dead-weary. Electron found
the class too good, but Hastate, a nice
son of Spearfelt, from Queensland, was
putting in good work in the last furlong.
An early winner at a more suitable
distance.
The topweight Micawber (5 to 1),
finishing gamely under the whip, beat
Dark Stain and Delight in the two-year-
old handicap. In most of his races
Micawber had been ridden in front, but
at Randwick Darby Munro sat still on
him until the last furlong. Micawber, a
son of Tippler-Three Mints, has the
size and speed of a first-class sprinter.
Correct’s fourth will keep him in the
limelight. He is trained by Munro’s
brother at Warwick Farm.
Pastoralist Hunter Bowman used to
work Rossjoy with Allunga. Naturally
the latter was superior, but Rossjoy, a
big son of Rossendale, ran some good
trials. He shaped like a stayer in win-
ning the Novice, at tens, in fast time
for 10 furlongs, 2min. 4fsec. Rockne
and Panhandle filled the places. The
favorite, Dutiful, after cantering behind
the pacemakers for a mile, couldn’t or
wouldn’t go the extra two furlongs.
Babili had been out of the winning
list for a long time, and handicapper
Fred Wilson lowered his weight to the
limit in the Welter. The bookmakers
also dropped him to twenties, but a bit
of money brought him to twelves. Barak
(7 to 2) and The Raider (4 to 1) were
most in demand. Bill Kelso’s old horse
held a prominent position until the
straight was reached, where he got into
lots of bother. However, Babili battled
on and outstayed The Raider, who had
every chance ; Verdonia came from the
ruck to run third: Barak ran his race
in patches. He seems too erratic to
be worth persevering with.
* * * *
Diaphane stamped himself as one of
the best middle-distance gallopers in
Victoria by donkey-licking Nonga Han-
dicap rivals at Moonee Valley. Having
beaten Black Mac in the V.A.T.C. Glen-
huntly Handicap on April 17 he ought
to have been in better demand than
Steel Spear, who could not extend Black
Mac at Ascot on May 1 ; but punters
manifested a strong preference for Steel
Spear. Diaphane went out at fives.
Steel Spear never was in the hunt.
Diaphane led from end to end and
scored, pulling up, in 2min. 4sec., which
lowered by half a second the previous
course record for a mile and a quarter
and 10 yards. Petit Fils (a coming
winner)' and Frill Prince filled the minor
places. Scintilla, the dam of Diaphane,
is by Linacre from Astron, a half-sister
to the dam of Eusebius (Victoria Derby)
and Regal Son (Metrop.).
Divisions of the Juvenile Handicap
went to Plymouth Hoe (10 to 1) and
Ouverte (5-to-2 favorite). Plymouth Hoe
was lucky in that Amiable, the first
choice of backers, swerved half round as
the barrier lifted and lost a lot of ground.
Even under that disadvantage Amiable
managed to lead into the straight; but
she tired —as was only natural —and
faded into fourth place. Ouverte, who
belongs to H. R. Telford, reached the
judge, a length in advance of the fast-
finishing Miss Devlin, a Devonshire filly
that is striking form.
Othere (20 to 1), owned by J. O’Brien
and ridden by J. O’Brien, who are in
no way related, surprised by taking the
first division of the Morang Trial. The
favorite, Gipsy Princess, a sister to the
Perth flyer Gay Gipsy, never was dan-
gerous. Burgoine, a rising apprentice
jockey, took the second division on
Frilvian, one of many useful gallopers
sired by Frilford, an imported horse that
Jack Holt trained for J. H. Flanagan, of
Adelaide.
The farce of “Box and Cox,” so popu-
lar half a century ago, was recalled
when W. Box won the Keera Welter on
Araunah and W. Cox finished second on
Sidcup. If he had not touched the heels
of Sly Wink at the straight entrance,
Sidcup (9 to 4) must have pulled his
backers through.
Odds of 16 to 1 were obtainable about
Araunah. The old grey was to have
been retired from racing on the flat and
converted into a hunter. With that in-
tention M. T. McGrath presented him
to J. Doran, the crack Hunt Club jockey.
Doran picked up a nice stake of £2BO
on Saturday.
At Warrnanibool Montargis (Drake-
Montmarte), favorite for the Grand
Annual, fell at the second-last steeple.
Two days later he was produced for the
Brunswick Steeple at the Valley. The
old fellow had raced twice at Warrnam-
bool, and a long return journey to the
metropolis did not help to freshen him
up. Valley punters gave Montargis the
cold shoulder and had the mortification
of seeing him win at 12 to 1.
Success came to Montargis as the
result of a series of sensational acci-
dents. As at Warrnambool, only three
horses completed the course. Boomberry
probably would have won by half a
furlong if he hadn’t crashed with Alick
Fullarton at the back of the course
when about to deprive Philax of control.
It then became apparently a case of
“pay out” for Philax, but he toppled
over at the third-last fence. Howson,
who had been out of the saddle for
nearly 12 months because of a badly-
broken arm, missed the chance of stag-
ing a brilliant comeback with Philax.
The disappearance of Boomberry and
Philax enabled Montargis to romp home
in advance of Blackmill and Pendil
Bridge.
Fred Hoysted lost a Grand National
horse when My Talisman broke his
neck in the Brunswick Steeple. On the
previous Saturday the Hoysted-trained
Davollies was badly injured in a fall
over the battens at Ascot. Hoysted will
have a weak string this winter.
Harry Freedman —who, like Hoysted, is
located at Mentone —has a most promis-
ing hurdler in Triteleia. This five-year-
old son of Great Star ran away with
the Banya Hurdle at the Valley, for
which he shared favoritism with Dak-
wood. Latter jumped poorly, but ran
second and will improve, with experience.
* * *
The Warrnambool Cup, contested last
Thursday, was won by Lord Carrington
(Ethiopian-Black Princess), with Bonus
and Beau Spear in the minor places. The
dam of Lord Carrington is by Bobadil
from Mountain Princess, than whom
there was no more brilliant mare in her
day on Melbourne courses. Dark Prince,
who scored over a middle distance at
Pakenham on Friday, is a half-brother
to Lord Carrington, being by Beau Fils
from Black Princess.
The calibre, of horses competing at
Warrnambool meetings has deteriorated
in recent years. Bygone winners of the
Warrnambool Cup include The Parisian,
who subsequently won the Australian
Cup and the Melbourne Cup, and Purser,
a gelding that was destined to get his
connections into grave trouble by lead-
ing home a Caulfield Cup field after suf-
fering defeat on the same course, a few
days before. Western District jumpers,
too, are not to be compared with olden
giants of the chase. The Grand Annual
Steeple went to Kennamon, an aged son
of Kennaquhair. Only three of the nine
starters completed the course. That isn’t
to be wondered at, for, although the
fences have been converted to brush, the
“country” remains very tricky, with its
road doubles and other hazards.
* * sH He
The Bulletin has repeatedly said that
the only way of stopping s.p. betting—
though no Government will ever try it
—is to restrict the publication of the
weights to official racebooks sold inside
the racecourse gates; this would, of
course, do away with tipsters also. It
was tried as a half-measure at Kensing-
ton (Sydney) on Wednesday, chiefly in
the hope of increasing the sale of race-
books at a shilling and thwarting that of
unofficial publications at sixpence. The
experiment is alleged to have been suc-
cessful. A simpler and better method of
circumventing pirates would be to issue
an official card at sixpence. Many people
don’t want the stale information included
in the shilling book, and when everything
connected with racing—transport and ad-
mission charges, taxes and price of meals
—is so dashed dear, even a saving of
sixpence would be appreciated.
* * * #
The vociferous Naylor who took the
A.J.C. committee to the Privy Council
when it told him it preferred his room to
his company, and lost his case, has now
been disqualified during the committee’s
pleasure. The ban dates from March 29,
1934, and unless it is made a political
issue it is never likely to be lifted. It
was imposed for what the subject de-
scribes as “the trivial offence of telling
falsehoods at an inquiry.” “S. M.
Herald” describes him as “the widely-
known racing enthusiast, Mr. Rufus
Theodore Naylor.” How very polite we
are!
* * * *
The gentle soul of W. E. Manning has
ridden to the Unknown Bourne. A
lawyer, like his grandfather (William
Montagu Manning, knight, Q.C. and
Attorney-General, 1856-57), his father
(William Patrick Manning, knight and
M.L.C.) and his brother Harry, the
present Attorney-General, William Ernest
Manning was a familiar figure at Rand-
wick. Thirty years ago he was a very
fine amateur horseman. He rode excel
lent races on some of William Kelso's
horses.
* * .j.
N.S.W.’s representative, Tapestry, made
a bold attempt to win the Brisbane Cup.
for which, partly because Billy Cook
was his rider, he was favorite at 7 to 2.
He was second into the straight to Prin-
cess Rivoli, but was passed in the last
furlong by Glen’s Spear, and when the
judge’s box was reached Glen’s Spear
had increased his advantage to three
lengths. Glen’s Spear won the Queensland
Derby in 1935, and, still a three-year-
old, was second in the 1935 Brisbane
Cup to Rivalli, who has since done very
well in India ; but his form this season
in Brisbane and Sydney had been indif-
ferent. By Spearfelt-Queenslot, he is
trained by T. J. Burke for the former
Queensland welterweight champion,
“Sylvie” Green, who has a boxing school
in Brisbane. He was one of the out-
siders —20 to 1 in a field of 11. First
Buzzard, who struck trouble on the jour-
neys, was a good third.
Lough Neagh, last year’s winner, was
a starter, but the weight (9st. 101 b.) and
the hard track were too much for him.
Brosnan says his old chestnut will race
no more on Brisbane tracks. Pamelus,
who has been sore, Dukes states, may
run in the Doomben Newmarket next
month.
V * * *
The considerable respect in which
Sydney racegoers hold Queensland form
was in no wise diminished by the per-
formances of Queensland horses at Ken-
sington on Wednesday. In a division of
the Flying Handicap a northern nag
named War Machine very nearly bear
the favorite, Rosmead, who was 5 to 4
on. Rosmead has won at Randwick, and
is one of the best horses racing at Wed-
nesday meetings ; but War Machine, who
was an outsider (16 to 1 in a field of
11), tested him thoroughly, and, when
seemingly beaten, came again, losing by
a mere half-head. War Machine will
be no 16 to 1 when he starts again.
Monash River, who is by Monash
Valley-Rivoli Rose, won a division of
the Flying Mile in capital style. Now
in Pat Nailon’s stable, he had been doing
well on the track, and in the betting he
was solid at fours. Knox rode him,
and, when called on, Monash River ran
past Heroina, who is pretty good, with-
out difficulty. His Queensland form as
a two-year-old (he is only three now)
was excellent, and he should win again
presently at the weights he is getting.
Footbrawl
After Saturday’s V.F.L. games, Colling-
wood, the 1936 premiers, Melbourne and
St. Kilda are the only unbeaten teams.
Collingwood, 9-14, effectively countered
the speed of North Melbourne, 3-16;
Melbourne, 15-17, had the measure of
Carlton, 10-11 ; and St. Kilda, 7-9, was
a shade too good for Footscray, 6-10.
South Melbourne showed much better
form to hold Richmond to an 11-15
draw. Fitzroy, 15-15, downed Hawthorn.
9-15, and Essendon got away from Gee-
long in the last quarter to win by 18-13
to 14-20. South Melbourne, with two
premiership points gained in its Saturday
draw, is at the bottom of the points
ladder. Richmond is next to the three
leaders, and the other seven teams are
on even terms.
* * * *
St. George is now the leading Sydney
Rugby Union team, a position it never
held before. It has fairly earned its pre-
eminence, having played sound football,
particularly on the defensive, side. On
Saturday the Illawarra XV beat
Northern Suburbs, 11-9, while Drum-
moyne, which had been level with it,
was downed by Eastern Suburbs, 14-11.
West defeated in-and-out Manly, 20-11;
Parramatta, with Cerutti back as skipper,
licked Gordon, 11-6; and University (11),
improving on recent exhibitions, trounced
Randwick (5), whose veteran, Towers, is
to lead the State side against Queensland.
* * * *
“Tenakoe”: Maoriland is thus early
preparing for the Springboks. On all the
grounds on which the tourists will play
large blocks of reserved seats at £1 Is.
have been marked out and are being
filled rapidly. Nothing seems to have
been done in that direction in N.S.W.
When the ’Boks were here last in 1921,
seats in the Suttor stand at Sydney
Showground were reserved, and the move
was a success.
('Continued on page 30.)


m
w
't£xv
spy
m
is?.
%m.
>&Z&
Wm
§sS3
/
!>
K&r*
mmm s
««
: .' :
:?S
%3B
gPil
I?:®
V ■■’
■:•' ¥:
■
X&«
IP
/
•'<vv
p
I
p
PM
M
%
1
THE CHEAPEST ITEM ON YOUR
CAR IS THE BEST TYRE YOU
CAN BUY!
Insurance records show that 5i times more
accidents are caused by skids than by blow-
outs and punctures COMBINED.
Skidding is the greatest accident risk. If it cost
real money to eliminate skids it would still pay
you.
But you don't pay a penny extra for the extra
safety the G-3 gives you. Its close-set sharp-
edged, tough rubber diamonds are right in the
CENTRE of the tread. This diamond-centre
grip makes the G-3 by far the quickest-stopping
tyre—a fact proved by over 8,000 widely varied
tests!
No one can afford an accident. Everyone can
afford G-3 safety!
r THE PUBLIC PREFERENCE FOR GOODYEAR HAS
BEEN ACHIEVED BY
3 SAFETY AND
MILEAGE
J
jr
i
4
rA
USTRALIA
I W
MADE
5-C22-37


SILVER
EDGE' 1 '
TRADE VMARK REGISTERED
THE RAYBESTOS CO.
BRAKE
LINING
DJ
MOTORISTS
STOP?
YOU
CAN
Have you experienced the uncanny feeling of pressing your brake pedal
and nothing happens?
Do not wait for this experience to be yours, but have your brakes
watched and adjusted at definite periods in the same way as you attend
to the oiling of your engine.
See that your brakes are fitted with RAYBESTOS BRAKE LININGS
and so ensure reliability, uniform wear and safety.
RAYBESTOS-BELACO, LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
factory Rep.: JOHN ARNOLD, G.P.O. Box 71, MELBOURNE, VIC.
MADE BY
MARTIN, SONS & CO., LTD.,
HUDDERSFIELD, ENGLAND,
THE FOUNDERS OF THE WORSTED INDUSTRY.
!%#j YtpfiPVP
k
<w' V
THE IDEAL OF ALL WELL-DRESSED MEN.
POSITIVELY
THE LARGEST RANGE OF EXCLUSIVE DESIGNS
EVER PRESENTED FOR MEN’S
SUITINGS
M.Q. and Rafferty
Bob Turner, who was lightweight
champion of Australia at the beginning
of the century, died the other day in
Sydney at 52. He was only 18 when he
won the championship in his native city
by beating Jack McGowan, who pre-
deceased him many years. Like Mick
Dooley, Turner had a dazzling left hand,
with which he could drive, swing and
jab with remarkable accuracy and per-
sistency ; but the other member was of
no use to him as an offensive weapon
except for occasional harmless fibbing.
He used to keep it stuck across his
chin. It was an effective fend against
fellows like Jack Blackmore, who had
nothing in his armory but a left hook,
but it was useless against smart boxers
of the Hock Keys type. In the U.S.A.
Keys went 18 rounds with Freddie
Welsh. Turner had the bad luck to meet
him at the height of Hock’s powers, and
the beatings he got from Keys and others
who discovered that he was vulnerable
to body punches put him out of the game
early. Though he made a brief return
to the ring in his thirties, he was really
a back number at 24.
“Mullingar”: Some of Bob Turner’s
best fights were fought at Kalgoorlie.
There he beat McGowan for the second
time, and Tom Dunn. Jimmy Britt then
claimed to be champion of the world,
and a Kalgoorlie “sport” conceived the
notion of matching Turner with him for
a title bout on the Kalgoorlie racecourse
or thereabouts. He offered the Cali-
fornian a guarantee of £5OO and two
return tickets for boxer and trainer. In
reply he was told that he would have
to talk in thousands,
and the correspon-
dence forthwith
ceased. Turner was a
dashing boxer at that
time, and Britt was
no wonder. Kal-
goorlians who saw
pictures of his fight
with Battling Nelson
were convinced that
in a match limited to
20 rounds he would
have been unable to
knock Turner out or
to find a way of beat-
ing the Sydneyite’s
ever-busy left.
* * *
“Grteco - Roman”:
Wrestlers from Aus-
tralia have explained
their invariable de-
feats at Olympiads by
saying the referees interpret the rules in a
fashion entirely new to them. That excuse
should be eliminated by the decision that
Australians will in future wrestle under
international instead of British rules.
Among the changes will be 15- instead
of 10-minute bouts and the ceasing of
a bout with a fall. The marking is worth
noting: the gainer of a fall is not
marked ; the loser gets three bad ’uns.
A points decision, on the other hand,
counts one bad mark for the winner and
three for the loser. Five bad marks
mean “outski.”
Footbrawl
“Pirate”: The attitude of the V.F.A.
in demanding a heavy bonus from any
League club applying for the transfer to
its ranks of an Association player has
shaken the League to its socks. It is
wildly flourishing the Coulter law, but
as that self-made enactment applies only
to the League the Association is unper-
turbed. What the League proposes to
meet the situation is to sock it into the
League clubs paying the bonus de-
manded. The Coulter law prescribes a
fine of £250 for the offending club if a
lump sum is paid for any player’s ser-
vices. Also the club may forfeit all
premiership points, suffer disqualifica-
tion and have its delegates hoofed out
of all League committees and meetings.
“Fitzcray”: The row between the
V.F.A. and the V.F.L. over transfer of
players has brought one bright sugges-
tion for ending the perennial trouble—
that each League club should link up in
brotherly love with an Association ditto.
The League club would be allowed
to thieve promising players—“arrange
transfers” is the way the begetter of the
idet puts it —from its pal alone.
* * * *
“Old Q.”: Queensland R.U. followed
up its drawn game with N.S.W. in Bris-
bane by winning the second match de-
cisively by 9-3 (three tries to one). As
in the first game, the Bananaland for-
wards gained the honors of the day—an
encouraging fact, in view of the coming
of the formidable Springbok vanguard.
There was much new blood in the home
team, and it was gratifying to see it
justify itself. Horan, of Toowoomba,
proved a class half-back, and Walker,
the full-back —he hails from the N. S.
Wales Northern Rivers looks like
a champion in the making. If these two
in particular can continue their form
they have a great chance of an Aus-
tralian cap, for new blood in both posi-
tions is sadly needed.
# # * *
“Hesper”: Though little advertised,
the Rugby Union is making steady head-
“Wotcha want t' 'it 'im in the kidneys for w’en y Were winnin'?
“Well, it seemed crool t ' 'it ’im anyw’ere else.”
way in western N.S.W. At Bathurst, in
pre-war days a Union stronghold, 15
teams are playing the Union game; the
League can muster only eight. The
League people are blaming the race
broadcasting, but this should apply
equally to the Union. The fact is that
the Union •is now played in all the
Bathurst secondary schools and colleges,
an advantage that no amount of League
propaganda can overcome.
* * * #
“Hooker”: With the Sydney C.G. dis-
pute over, the itinerary of the Springboks
has been settled. Arriving at Fremantle
they play Westralia the same day—a bit
over the odds, though it will boom the
game in the West. Other matches are:
v S.A. at Adelaide, June 5; v. Victoria
at Melbourne, June 12; v. Combined
West at Orange (N.S.W.), June 17 ; v.
N.S.W. at Sydney, June 19; v. Australia
at Sydney, June 26 ; v. Newcastle at New-
castle, June 30; v. Australian XV at
Brisbane, July 3 ; v. Toowoomba at 1 oo-
woomba, July 7; v. Queensland in Bris-
bane, July 10 ; v. Australia in Sydney,
July 17, the team leaving for M.L. the
same evening.
* * * *
“Gabba”: Domestic discord is a noto-
rious releaser of bagged cats. In Bris-
bane the Queensland Rugby League and
the Brisbane ditto have been at daggers
drawn for years. Recently some Q.R.L.
potentate asserted the Brisbane body was
losing ground to the Union code within
its bailiwick. The B.R.L. has now revealed
that on the Darling Downs, which is in
the Q.R.L.’s jurisdiction, the slide has
been so marked that there are now more
clubs playing Union than League, the
Union code having increased its teams
in two years from 17 to 27.
* * * *
“Hotham”: Bridle, the big Rugby
Union forward who practised with Foots-
cray’s Rules team at the beginning of the
season, wants to get back to the Union
fold for a shy at the ’Boks. His status
is being called in question, but there is
nothing to prevent the Union white-
washing him. Whether he is the type of
forward to stack up against the ’Boks is
doubtful. He likes the shiny stuff.
* * * -*
“Shore”: Ray Robinson, the Test
cricketer, is to play Union Rugby for
Gordon —he was a regular player in New-
castle before coming to Sydney. It is
very rare nowadays to find a first-class
cricketer playing football; about the last
in Sydney were Johnny Taylor and Otto
Nothling. Nothling had hard luck in
that he missed the unique distinction of
having represented Australia at cricket
and football by a short head. A fine full-
back, he played against the Springboks
and All-Blacks; but Queensland at that
time had not revived the Union game,
and the representation was for N.S.W.
only. Had Queensland players been avail-
able Nothling would have been a cer-
tainty for Australia’s full-back position.
As a cricketer he figured for N.S.W. and
Australia as a bowler, but without set-
ting Sydney C.G. on fire.
* * * *
“Rus”: N.S.W. country footballers
get little attention from the. Sydney-
obsessed N.S.W.R.U., but a combined
Western team has been invited to play
in Sydney against the Mid-week Union
on May 19 and Newcastle on May 22,
this last also in Sydney. Whether any
of the countrymen will be given a chance
of selection for the State is another
matter, though Queensland has done it
with excellent results.
•f $ 4* *(*
“Five-eighth”: “Member” in a rather
foggy par. (B. 5/5/’37) reproves me for
saying the worst of playing football
matches on the Sydney Showground is
the mob of deadheads with members’
tickets. Anyone who can recall the en-
thusiastic manner in which such people
attended the Springbok matches in 1921
will realise the truth of my remarks.
“M.” asks, too, why I do not say the
same about Sydney C.G. members. I do,
but their numbers are. not so great as the
R.A.S. legion. Further, since they are
members, neither crowd can be called
gate-crashers. As members they are
entitled to enter the grounds. Queens-
land C.A. had the same experience with
Brisbane’s showground until it changed
in disgust to the ill-equipped Brisbane
C.G.
* * * *
“Outside Right”: The English Soccer
team is to land in Sydney from M.L. on
June 30 and play the first of its 10
engagements against N.S.W. at S.C.G. on
July 3. On July 6 there will be a match
against South Maitland on the coalfields,
to be followed by the first Test in Syd-
ney on July 10. Other fixtures are: v.
Queensland at Brisbane, July 14 ; second
Test at Brisbane, July 17 ; third Test at
Newcastle, July 20; v. Australian XI at
Melbourne, July 24; v. Victoria at Mel-
bourne, July 26; v. S.A. at Adelaide,
July 29, and v. Westralia at Perth,
August 2. The innovation of a Test at
Newcastle is well deserved by that strong-
hold of Australian Soccer.
* * * *
“Hexham”: Newcastle Soccerites are
the latest to complain that s.p. and race
broadcasting are stealing away their
patrons on Saturday afternoons. Only
£lO was taken at the match of the day
recently, and as a rule the Newcastle folk
are sound supporters of the round-ball
game. There is a strong move for Sun-
day football. Failing that, there doesn’t
seem any way out but to join the Satur-
day-afternoon punters and do the club
funds in backing winners or otherwise.
Nineteenth Hole
“Hoylake”: Reference in a recent Bul-
letin to an American player who utilises
several gardening implements as clubs
reminds me that France boasts another
unconventional wight, Saubaber by name.
Saubaber stamps his ball into the turf if
he misses an easy putt, and if it is in a
bad lie or a bunker he has been known to
bite a piece out of it. Why cannot we get
a golfer or two of this type to visit Aus-
tralia instead of hackneyed experts like.
Hagen and co.? When we recall the
rapture with which Australian tennis
crowds applauded the circus tricks of
Menzel, it is easy to realise what a draw
a couple, of golfers like M. Saubaber
would be.
* * * *
“Click”: With the completion of the
new Kingswood course, Melbourne has
now 10 championship layouts set in the
sand belt. Nowhere else in the world is
there such a collection. Apropos, it is
desperately hard to get into a Melbourne
club these days; most of them are full.
Kingswood had the required 350 mem-
bers a few days after the opening.
Hs *
“Carnoustie”: Cranks who like to see
their caddies staggering under huge bags
of clubs will rejoice to hear that St.
Andrews will not enforce the proposed
rule limiting the number of clubs per
member to 14 at most. The meeting
showed a majority in favor of the limi-
tation, but it was not the two-thirds one
demanded by the rules.
* * *
“Divot Digger”: Walter Hagen says he
will retire from big golf after a last shy
at the British open championship in July.
Hagen has undoubtedly been the out-


..... .
• . W. . -
■V
m
mm
m
i
mmm
m
mmMmm
m
mm
m
mm
m
m
m
s&z
wm
N.H.H.I.
(~T HERE is a solidity of construction about the "Hawk"
Qj that will instantly appeal to you . . A safe feel at the
wheel as the speedometer creeps up . . as you swing
lightly round comers clinging easily and surely to your
right side of the road. A "comfort" feel whether you are
taking things easily or hitting up a mile a minute even
over bad roads .. there is no comparison at its price.
1937
MIL
/
m a
w
QUEENSLAND:
John McGrath ltd.
358 Wickham Street
Valley, Brisbane, Qld.
S. AUSTRALIA:
WAYMOOTH MOTOR CO. LTD.
42 Waymouth Street
Adelaide, S.A.
VICTORIA:
OVERSEAS MOTORS PTY. LTD.
222 Exhibition Street
Melbourne, C. 1., Vic.
TASMANIA:
D. L. HOLLIS MOTORS
York Street
Launceston,, Tas.
N.S.W.:
john McGrath ltd.
155 Elizabeth Street
Sydney, N.S.W.
W. AUSTRALIA:
SKIPPER BAILEY MOTOR Co. Ltd.
900 Hay Street
Perth, W.A:
World Exporters: ROOTES LTD Devonshire House, Piccadilly, London
standing figure in golf since Harry
Vardon, though his methods are tar
removed from those of the English pro-
fessional.
Racquet and Bawl
“Top Spin”: The Mexicans having
been disposed of, the Australian team
faces the vital Davis Cup tie of the tour
—against the U.S.A. at Forest Hills, be-
ginning on May 30. Interesting to Aus-
tralians is the inclusion of Parker in the
American team, apparently as a regular
player. For some years this young man
has been arriving, but has never quite
got there. Last season and this he is
said to have improved out of sight. He
has met McGrath on a couple of occa-
sions in exhibition games in the States
and has won on each occasion.
* * * *
“Cut Shot”: The feature of the Aus-
tralian Davis Cup match with Mexico at
Mexico City was the blooding of young
Bromwich in Cup tennis by giving him
the third singles. He won in straight sets,
though Reyes ran the third set to 7-5.
Quist was affected by the altitude ; in
the fourth singles Tapia took a set from
him. The team will have until May 30
to pull itself together.
* * * *
“Rev. Knucklebone”: McGrath was
off color in Mexico City—a septic throat.
Young tennis players seem unusually
subject to ailments of the kind. Perhaps
the trouble is that they are so hounded
on to play all the year round and night
and day that their physique suffers and
resistance to infection is decreased.
% # sj; :ic
“Cut Shot”: All is now set for the
second Davis Cup round, which must be
completed by May 16. Twelve teams
drew byes in the first round, including
Italy, Germany, Yugoslavia and France
—a formidable four.
.' * * * *
“Centre Court”: English tennis ex-
perts are every day discovering ugly duck-
lings who they hope may turn out swans.
The latest find is Shayes, aged 22, who
won the covered courts championship at
Queen’s Club. Shayes is fast and takes
the ball early, while his ground strokes
are unimpeachable. Volleying is not so
good, but he has only been two and a
half years in tournament tennis, and will
certainly improve this side of his game.
Already the shrewdies are rating him an-
other Fred Perry, to which the irrespon-
sible may retort “Shayes you.”
Miscellaneous
“Spinnaker”: Yachting enthusiasts on
the other side of the world are wonder-
ing gleefully what form the barge over
the next America’s Cup race will take.
After the last race, Sopwith, the English
challenger, swore he would never com-
pete again. He has changed his mind,
and his original yacht, Endeavor 1., and
the new challenger, Endeavour 11., have
sailed from England under jury rig.
What Sopwith’s idea is in taking both
craft no one seems to know. Maybe
he intends to hold trials on Long Island
Sound and select the better of the two.
This has never been done by an English
owner, though it is the usual course with
the Americans. The Ranger, the new
American vessel, will undergo a series
of trials of the sort.
* * * *
“Aigburth”: Middlesex skipper Robins
thinks he has discovered why the aver-
age young Australian is a better batsman
than the average young Briton—it is be-
cause he has learned to bat on concrete.
Robins wants to see concrete wickets
laid down in England, especially in areas
where turf wickets are so bad as to be
dangerous. Robins lacks practical ex-
perience or he would modify his admira-
tion of the concrete wicket. A batsman
who has had two or three seasons on
concrete often finds it a matter of time
and practice before he can recover his
form on return to turf. In the case of
clay wickets, so common in the country,
the change is not so marked, for a good
clay wicket is a close approach to an
easy turf pitch. Pace, lift and flight of
the ball off concrete and off grass are
quite different, and though the stuff is
better than crude turf it does not bear
out Robins’s theory.
“Tenth Slip”: 1 advocate the compul-
sory use of concrete or other artificial
pitches for cricket. If they were adopted
everywhere there would be no trouble
about changing from turf, and weather
would make no impression on them.
The laws of cricket are being changed
every season nowadays. There is no
law laying down the material of which
a pitch should be composed, so that
should leave the way wide open for an
entirely new one.
* * * #
Aigburth”: The All-Black cricketers
cast up in England in good order and
condition. This time the team will be
treated as a first-class visiting side and
will play a full Test programme instead
of the modified one of past tours.
Skipper Page told the interviewers he
liked the batting, but much depended on
how the bowling would turn out on Eng-
lish wickets. M.L. bowlers have had
enough experience in England to have a
good idea as to this already, while there
is little difference between the Old Coun-
try pitches and those of M.L.
'!• 'S' *»•
“Aigburth”: Hendren is retiring from
big cricket at the end of this English
season, and is to coach at Harrow. Some
time ago the unreliable press announced
that Pat was going to sign up with the
crowd that is trying to establish baseball
in the South of England, but all that
seems to have gone with the wind. A
magnificent batsman and field, Hendren’s
inclusion in Allen’s team might have
made a big difference to England, veteran
as he is, for he was a great batsman on
any type of wicket and absolutely fear-
less, caring not a tinker’s dam for any
bowler’s reputation.
“Shires”: The N.S.W.C.A. has received
a letter from Leicester. County asking
whether there is any objection to its
getting Harold Mudge, the N.S.W. all-
rounder now in Malaya with Cahn’s
team. Whether Mudge will figure as pro-
fessional or amateur is not stated. He is
contracted with Cahn’s team as a profes-
sional for a couple of years, and while a
member of it will not have much time
to play for the county. In any case, it
will take him two years to qualify.
ik $ * #
“Susie Swattit”: The Australian
cricketinas have arrived all safe in Eng-
land, and the flapper press at that end is
making the usual lady ass of itself with
headings like “Seventeen Silent Spartans”
and so on. The idea is to be facetious
about the conditions under which the
girleens travelled, but the japes are fall-
ing flat. The team’s manageress is some-
thing of a philosopher. Asked if she
thought any of the girls, in spite of the
rigid regulations, had laid the founda-
tions of future matrimonial engagements
she declined to be positive. Indeed her
non-committal replies irresistibly re-
called the answer given by the old
peasant with two little girls whom
Panurge questioned on the bridge in
Paris.
* * *. *
“Sprocket”: Opperman will have a
fairly full season in England. In addi-
tion to partnering fellow-countryman
Len Rogers in the Coronation six-day
race at Wembley, which begins May 23,
the Victorian has been nominated
to ride for Australia in the 100 kilo-
metres at the Crystal Palace, when he
will meet most of the cream of the Con-
tinental and American riders. Three
weeks after this he starts in the 2300
miles Tour de France, in which he will
skipper a British Empire team.
* * * *
“Ike Mcßagg”: For what is claimed
as the first time, a bookmaker operated
on the G.P.S. boatrace at Penrith, field-
ing at Canterbury racecourse. Betting
was very wide, and the bagman says he
lost £7 10s. I am dashed glad. Next year
we may find bagholders operating at Pen-
rith itself, in which case the river will
come in handy for clients of welshers.


SHADOW
SHOWS
“As You Like It.”
ROSALIND Elizabeth Bergner
ORLANDO Laurence Olivier
CELIA Sophie Stewart
BANISHED DUKE .... Henry Ainley
In this fine version the original, text has
been closely followed. Jaques is by no
means melancholy, nor is Touchstone, so
prominent as the Bard intended, but it
is Shakspeare done in a way which every-
one can enjoy. It goes with a swing
from the time Orlando wraps his fingers
around his rascally brother’s windpipe
down to the merrymakings in the forest
of Arden after the restoration of the
Duke. Most members of the cast speak
English that is a joy to the ear, and even
Miss Bergner’s accent doesn’t seem out
of place. Jaques’s “Seven Ages” solilo-
quy is given with a wealth of color by
Leon Quartermaine. Settings, particularly
Greta Garbo in “Camille,” at Sydney
St. James.
in the ducal Court, are lavish, and cos-
tuming admirable.
Elizabeth Bergner is Rosalind to the
life, Sophie Stewart as the inseparable
"coz” is vivacious and eye-pleasing, Leon
Quartermaine is a convincing Jaques and
Laurence Olivier has personality, if at
times he does make Orlando a trifle too
bucolic. Henry Ainley is appropriately
dignified yet fatherly as the Duke, and
Mackenzie Ward brings a quaint humor
to the role of Touchstone. At Sydney
Liberty.
“Spring Parade.”
ROMANTIC FRAULEIN,
Franciska Gaal
SOLDIER BOY .. Wolf Albach-Retty
The combination of beautiful singing
and delightful personality appears to be
a gift with Viennese sopranos. Lotte
Lehmann, now enthralling Australian
audiences, is a present instance; Fran-
ciska Gaal, who appears in this charming
Continental film, keeps up the reputation.
Out of the slightest of material has
been made a musical comedy that easily
overcomes the obstacles of . language.
The players speak and sing in their native
tongue, but the English translation, per-
fectly synchronised, makes it easy to
follow. In any case, so many words
approximate their English equivalents
phonetically that the film would be quite
clear without a word of English being
given.
It revolves around a romance between
a corporal in the army of the Emperor
Franz Josef and a girl in a baker’s shop.
He is a budding musician, and when he
offends the brass-hats by frequenting out-
of-bounds beer-gardens with his girl she,
by a ruse, invokes Imperial aid by get-
ting the Emperor to sponsor a military
march her lover has composed.
Franciska Gaal has limitations as a
singer, but shows none as a romantic
actress. Wolf Albach-Retty is a hand-
some young juvenile lead who can act.
At Sydney Liberty.
“Camille.”
MARGUERITE Greta Garbo
ARMAND DUVAL .... Robert Taylor
DUVAL PERE Lionel Barrymore
BARON DE VARVILLE, Henry Daniell
There was no keener judge of the tastes
of his generation than the younger
Dumas, and his lady of the camellias,
dying so beautifully in the last act with
a splendid sacrifice to her credit, was so
successful that she inspired a numerous
progeny of plays and operas. It is to
the credit of the M.-G.-M. combine that
it has been able actually to revive, not
merely revamp, the faded old romance.
The setting and dressing of the piece are
triumphs. The atmosphere of the middle
of last century, with its barouches, its
ringlets, its voluminous skirts and its cast-
iron conventions, is charmingly repro-
duced. Miss Garbo makes whoopee dis-
creetly and mixes her allocations of
pathos and the tenderer emotions with a
leaven of good, hard Parisian shrewd-
ness. Taylor has one of those ardent-
lover roles he can play in his sleep, and
such characters as the gently-firm elder
Duval, the rollicking old dressmaker
Prudence (Laura Hope Crews), faithful-
friend Gustave (Russell Hardie) and the
unpleasant Baron are prettily etched.
There’s one point on which the studio ex-
perts have slipped. Marguerite, attempt-
ing the running passage in Weber’s “In-
vitation to the Waltz,” complains of the
difficulty of “all those sharps.” It’s in
G flat, but perhaps the poor girl didn’t
know the difference. Anyway, the film
passes an hour and a half away very
pleasantly. At Sydney St. James.
“The Jungle Princess.”
FEMININE TARZAN, Dorothy Lamour
NICE YOUNG EXPLORER,
Ray Milland
NICE WHITE GIRL .. Molly Lamont
HEAD SERANG Akim Tamiroff
The untutored heroine at a very early
age lost her papa, who was slain by a
tiger just after his domicile had been
Robert Taylor in “Camille.”
trampled flat by wild elephants. So,
attended only by a tiger cub, the mite
wandered into the jungle, to remain
there, making friends with gorillas and
other indigenous fauna, for 15 years. She
then met the nice white young man. A
lovely picture she made as she stood at
the door of her cave, welcoming him in
—her eyebrows plucked to the latest
specifications, hair newly shampooed,
fingers and toes most beautifully mani-
cured, enough mascara to give her eye-
lashes that sweeping effect, and enough
lipstick to define a Cupid’s bow. A
yard of figured silk was draped so as not
to interfere with the figure.
The young man remained with this
charming child of nature till the rainy
season set in, and as night fell on the
jungle she used to sing him a simple
Malay song composed by Manny Zeiss,
Mo Baumber and Ike Snigglefritz, ac-
companied by a large dance band. When
he returned to the animal-trapping estab-
lishment to which he belonged she went
with him. His white fiancee was mildly
Beverley Roberts in “God’s Country and
the Woman,” at Sydney State.
surprised, but after the Malays had run
amuck and attempted to bury the female
Tarzan alive, first putting out her eyes
with red-hot irons (an attempt frustrated
by a horde of wild apes), the American
girl considered it best to leave them to
it, a decision with which this critic sees
no need to quarrel.
Kipling started an awful lot of trouble
when he invented Mowgli. This latest
instalment of the consequences welters
across the screen at Sydney Prince
Edward.
“God’s Country and the Woman.”
HEAD OF LUMBER FIRM,
Robert Barrat
HIS FLIGHTY BROTHER,
George Brent
HEAD OF RIVAL FIRM,
Beverley Roberts
FINNISH WOODS BOSS, Alan Hale
The. cumbrous title and the machine-
made plot are James Oliver Curwood’s
legacies to this opus, which is in techni-
color. Forceful acting, beautiful photo-
graphy and clever direction lift the effort
out of the ruck. Younger brother of
earnest lumber magnate is a spendthrift
playboy. To cure him he is dumped
into the lumber camp of his firm’s bit-
terest rival —of course, a beautiful young
woman. While elder brother is inciting
sabotage and massacre to further his
business interests (that sort of thing
seems to be accepted by all hands as a
commonplace of the logging industry)
younger brother, who in the course of a
few weeks becomes a completely-qualified
lumberjack, is fighting the girl’s cause,
Of course, he wins the scrap and the
girl, and the poor fellows who get
stabbed in the back, wounded with shot-
guns, smashed up in train accidents or
crushed under logs in the course of war-
fare. are evidently considered a very
trivial price to pay for such a glorious
outcome.
Beverley Roberts carries pig-headed-
ness and bad temper to superb heights;
Brent fully exercises his gift for imper-
turbable good humor, and other roles are
so satisfactorily filled that the fantastic
improbabilities of the story are well
glossed over. At Sydney State.
“Holy Terror.”
PRECOCIOUS CHILD .. Jane Withers
CROONER DUO,
Leah Ray and Tony Martin
Purports to give an insight into the life
of the gobs who comprise the air branch
of the U.S. Navy. According to this
source of information their principal
activity is the study of step-dancing under
the tutelage of tiny tots. The male prin-
cipals hold hands and croon sloppy dit-
ties about lurv. It is left to Jane, the
only person in the entire barracks who
seems to have a scintilla of intelligence,
to foil the nefarious plots of a large gang
of ruffians who accumulate a full know-
ledge of the Navy’s latest “mystery
’plane” by taking telephoto snapshots of
its engine from the top of a teashop. If
that’s the way the American Navy is run
the citizens of the proud republic must
thank God they have an army. At
Sydney Plaza.
“Stolen Holiday.”
CROOKED FINANCIER, Claude Rains
INNOCENT PARTNER .. Kay Francis
DIPLOMAT lan Hunter
In Paris Kay is a mannequin, exuding
It in vast quantities. She and an adven-
turous gent, strike up a partnership, con-
fined strictly to business. Soon they get
among the big money, he as a mysterious
financial wizard, she as a de luxe dress
designer. Unknown to the lady, he is
up to his neck in snide bond transactions,
with ramifications paralleling the Hatry
and Kruger operations.
Enter handsome, young British diplo-
mat. Glamor goes all mushy, and True
Lurv dawns. The bond juggler, who has
long loved his partner from afar, bites
his lip and goes on with his turpitude.
But Nemesis is at hand for him, and
events move speedily to the happy ending.
Although not billed as the star, Claude.
Rains takes the acting honors. He gives
an admirable portrayal of a crook finan-
cier, smooth, polished, with a believable
mixture of cynicism and sentiment. Kay
Francis, once she ceases being a meie
clotheshorse, gives a fine performance.
lan Hunter, easy and natural, fills the
romantic role nicely. Alison Skipworth
is a hard-boiled old-timer in the dress
game. At Sydney Capitol.
STAGE SHOWS.
Lehmann Sings with Orchestra.
Thursday night’s symphony concert at
Sydney Town Hall had as its main attrac-
tion the incomparable Lehmann with an
orchestral background. Her offerings in-
cluded six Strauss songs, with the com-
poser’s rich instrumentation as accom-
paniment, three Wagnerian excerpts, and
Gretchaninoff’s “My Native Land” with
orchestration by Sir Henry Wood. The.
recital helped the audience to understand
Madame’s success in opera; her beauti-
fully-rounded notes need fear no com-
petition with violin or flute. The singer’s
Arthur Treacher in “Step Lively,
Jeeves!” at Sydney State.
triumph was acknowledged with tremen-
dous ovations after each appearance.
Purely orchestral fare comprised the
“Coriolanus” overture, two excerpts from
“The Ring,” and Mozart’s Symphony in
E Flat (No. 39). Dr. Edgar Bainton
conducted.
•F *F *F *F
Noel Mewton-Wood’s Recital.
For some reason or other, infant
prodigies of the piano are distinguished
by a lack of bad habits on the platform
and at the keyboard. Some of them
acquire them later. Having faith in his


Ronald
Hetz.
years.
During the past half-century over 40,000
photographs of strong, vigorous children
reared from the age of six months on
Arnott’s Famous Milk Arrowroot Biscuits
have been sent with testimonials by grateful
mothers to William Arnott, Limited.
19 Edward Street,
SUMMER HILL.
To Messrs. William Arnott, Ltd.
Dear Sirs
I am sending a photograph of my son,
“Arthur,” aged 2 years, which I have much
pleasure to send, as he looks so well. He
weighs 2 stone 4 lbs. He has been fed on
Arnott’s Famous Milk Arrowroot Biscuits
ever since he was five months old, and they
still form part of his diet.
Yours truly,
(Signed) Edith B. Makin.
CLmotts
FAMOUS
MILK
ARROWROOT
BISCUITS
99
future, Mewton-Wood’s first teacher
taught him for nothing, but died before
he brought him up to platform standard,
and the 14-year-old boy is lucky in
having had five years of voluntary guid-
ance from another celebrated master.
Largely owing to his appearances at a
leading cinema, he had for his final re-
cital at the Town Hall, Melbourne, before
he departs for Europe no more empty
seats to play to than many a visiting
virtuoso. His sudden popularity hasn’t
spoiled his playing, and he tackled the
Steinway with a simplicity and directness
and an absence of musical irrelevancies
which augur well for his future, especi-
ally as they are combined with a finesse
beyond his years, if not beyond his ex-
perience. Liszt’s arrangement of Bach’s
Prelude and Fugue in A minor was the
highlight of the programme, which was
more exacting than the one at the initial
concert.
CURRENT ARTBURSTS.
Sale of the Barclay Collection.
Art circles in Sydney were rocked to
their foundations by the news that Wil-
liam Barclay had put the contents of
his capacious art gallery into a city
auction-room. Such names as Reynolds,
Gainsborough, Landseer, Millais, Her-
komer, Crome. and Morland figured in
the catalogue, which also featured work
from the brushes of painters of more
recent reputation, such as Sargent and
Orpen.
The sale led to a marked difference
of opinion in two quarters.
The most important item, “Georgiana,
Duchess of Devonshire,” appeared to the
“S. M. Herald’s” critic to be in treatment
characteristic of Reynolds’s style. To
Jimmy MacDonald it resembled nothing
that Reynolds ever painted. There was
no bid. Incidentally, the vendor person-
ally guaranteed the authenticity of every
item in his collection, and provided with
this picture a written certificate giving the
history of the painting.
Lot 121 (“The Coming Storm,” by
Gainsborough) got a pat on the back
from the “Herald” connoisseur, who dis-
cerned in it “skilful and poetic passages.”
Mr. MacDonald pronounced it banal
A Reynolds portrait of Georgians, D [?]hness of Devonshire, from the Spencer
collection.
alike as to composition, tone, color and
handling, and nothing like a Gains-
borough. He also said of Lot 132 (“La
Cafe du Bal, Montmartre,” by Orpen),
“I do not believe it to be by Orpen,”
though the “Herald” had noted in it
Orpen’s “keenly original outlook.”
The Gainsborough brought 100 guineas
and the Orpen 39 guineas. The Sargent
went for 35 guineas, a Morland tor 42
guineas, a Landseer for 12 guineas, a
Meissonier for five guineas, a-Herkomer
for 20 guineas and an Orchardson for 22
guineas. Best price of the sale, which
realised a bit over £5OOO, was paid for
“The Belle of the Ball” (Millais), which
brought 320 guineas. The average was
something under 26 guineas.
4*
Heidelberg Exhibition.
Among an exhibition of 160 paintings
in the new Heidelberg (Vic.) Town Hall
13 works relating specifically to Heidel-
berg and district were paraded so that
the most suitable might be sent to the
Oberburgermeister of Heidelberg, Ger-
many. V. Murray Griffin’s “River and
Hills from Eaglemont, Heidelberg,” was
chosen by the local council on the advice
of J. MacDonald, director of the National
Gallery, Melbourne. From works of
modern painters presenting their view of
the relationship of art to nature, the show
ranges back to a group recalling the days
when Streeton, Charles Conder and Tom
Roberts first began painting Heidelberg’s
scenery. John Longstaff, Henri Hoile
and Dora Wilson were among exhibitors
of general work in what is a fairly repre-
sentative show.
•J 1 4* 4*
Vic. Society’s Show.
The autumn exhibition of the Vic.
Artists’ Society is not characterised by
any out-of-the-ordinary paintings, but
the general standard of work, especially
in oils, is well up to the usual level. W.
B. Mclnnes’s portrait of Professor Os-
borne, Complete with rich red-and-purple
gown, is an outstanding canvas. Miss
Rollo Thomson’s head of a boy is well
painted, and James Quinn, like Mrs.
Violet Mclnnes and Aileen Dent, ex-
hibits some attractive flower studies.
John Longstaff shows a lovely creeper-
covered pergola with autumn Sunlight on
it. Among the water-colors John Lox-
ton’s work stands out, and there are some
splendid etchings.
4*
Norman Lindsay’s Show.
A show of Norman Lindsay’s paintings
which is to be opened at the Macleod
Gallery to-morrow (Thursday) is of
especial interest to admirers of this ver-
satile artist’s work since it contains a
liberal proportion of pictures in oils, a
medium in which Mr. Lindsay had not
painted for very many years. There are
also several new etchings, and, of course,
a brave array of water-colors.


Bartz— Salts of the Earth
Drugs are only a temporary relief, but BARTZ,
the IMPROVED MINERAL SPRING TONIC
SALTS, is Nature’s own remedy for excessive
fat, headaches, rheumatic pains, sleeplessness,
giddiness, high blood pressure, constipation, etc.
Obtainable all Chemists and Stores, price
1/- and 2/-, or direct post free. Cheaper and
better. Sole distributors,
British Colonial & Eastern Chemicals, T,td.,
63-69 York Street, Sydney. ’Phone: 8W6661.
df
WILCOX SMITH & CO
Postage Stamp Merchants,
Liverpool Street,
Dunedin, N.Z.
16 Page Buying and
Selling List Free.
Established 49 years.
Bankers: The Union
THE AUSTRALIAN ART EXHIBITION
THE MACLEOD GALLERY,
252 George Street
(Near Bridge Street)
Latest works by the best Australian Artists
on view and for sale.
Including a Special Exhibition of Oil Paintings,
Water-colors, Pen Drawings and Etchings by
Norman Lindsay.
ADMISSION FREE
Personal and Missing Friends.
BALFOUR BLAIR, formerly employed in
sheep-farming, who left New Zealand for Aus-
tralia in 1925 at the age of 23, and whose
whereabouts are unknown to relatives, or anyone
with information as to the said Balfour Blair,
is requested to communicate with STEWART
& ANDERSONS, Solicitors, 167 St. Vincent
Street, Glasgow, Scotland.
WILL anyone knowing the whereabouts of or
anything concerning CECIL TYRONE
WATSON, who was employed by James Prater
at Tarraville, near Port Albert, Gippsland, Vic-
toria, in 1893, and who was last heard of at
Tarraville in 1896, or knowing anything con-
cerning his marriage or his next-of-kin, please
communicate with H. H. HO ARE, Solicitor,
440 Little Collins Street, Melbourne?
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
All day long last Wednesday mes-
sengers of disappointment came homing
to the National Council of Women. The
councillors had arranged a monster re-
ception to Lady Wakehurst. Taking part
in this were Sydney’s representative
women. But first of all the Governor’s
wife could not attend. Small son Chris-
topher was ill of appendicitis in St.
Luke’s, and the vicereine had herself
developed a bad chill. Next came, word
that the wife of Premier Stevens sent
her apologies. Then aviatrix Jean
Batten sent her regrets. But was the
N.C.W. downhearted? It was not. It
was sorry for absentees’ misadventures,
but carried on nobly. Six hundred
women rallied in David Jones’s ball-
room, and were almost dazzled by the
dais draped and canopied in Coronation
purple silk and embellished with a huge
crown of purple velvet and gold.
The Governor came to act as deputy
for his wife ; he and his aide, Captain
Lawrence, were the only men. Later
he shook hands with the 250 who repre-
sented the 62 affiliated societies. It was
all done at the quick step, for the Gov-
ernor had only a little while to stay.
Indeed, Mayoress Parkes, who was de-
tained, missed him altogether. And
withal the gathering was a success. From
deputy-president Isobel Fidler down,
every woman present had the bright eye
and manner that only the keen brain can
give. There was some nice frocking, too,
including the Madonna blues worn by
Miss Fidler herself, the heavy black
laces in which Dr. Constance D’Arcy
appeared, the pleated green chiffons,
cloaked in black, of Hermione Llewellyn
and the Parma violet of the Parker lady.
Mrs. A. G. Thomas’s chiffons were
black, and Mrs. David Cohen’s blue.
Sister Catherine Black, who nursed the
late King, was a notable. Dark furs
enriched Miss Kate Egan’s blue bro-
cades. Mrs. Ernest Bryce’s crepes were
hyacinth blue.
When the Right Worshipful Brothers
break out into a ball it is a ball. It
cannot be described by the word party
or dance. Last week the members of
the Masonic Club created a new stand-
ard of impressiveness even for them-
selves. The Coronation Ball found the
club fragrant with masses of gladioli and
autumn flower and leaf, and poetic with
the pensive beauty of white lilac (speci-
ally grown for the occasion) and lily-
of-the-valley. Lord Gowrie was the
guest. He walked down the hall between
the gleam of swords, and on his entrance
to the ballroom the lights were dimmed
while a spotlight played alternately on
the Union Jack and on each flag of the
Dominions, and Raymond Beatty sang
“Land of Hope and Glory.”
After this stirring prologue up went
the lights, and eight debs., all in white,
with feather headdresses, and carrying
gold baskets of lily-of-the-valley (the gift
of the club), made their bows to Lord
Gowrie. For this ceremony the Gover-
nor-General stood on a carpet woven in
England to commemorate the Corona-
tion. In the corners were symbols of
the Dominions’ enterprises. The middle
was shared by a British lion and the Taj
Mahal. Mrs. H. L. Askey, wife of the
club’s president, sponsored the begin-
ning butterflies, wearing a frock of
chenille in warm autumn tonings. Mrs.
F. A. Maguire, who came with her doc-
tor husband, pinned bright flowers in
her laces, which were a soft woodland-
brown. Mrs. Frank Chaffey brought
daughter Sheila. Mrs. John Goulston’s
satins were pearly grey. Enid Halloran
was attractive in a turquoise setting. All
told there were 350 guests.
Poland, not to be outdone by Japan
and Austria, celebrated its National Day.
In one of the Australia’s largest recep-
tion-rooms the Polish eagle soared to
liberty on its brave red banner. Indeed,
Poland’s red-and-white struck a recurring
note in the nation’s flag, in the flower
decorations and in the spray of car-
nations pinned by Mrs. de Noskowski in
her furs. With Consul-General de Nos-
kowski she bade the large and varied
assembly welcome.
Archbishop Mowll and Mrs. Mowll
came to this party, and the Apostolic
Delegate, Dr. Panico, was another of
the coffee-drinkers. The banking Riddle
couple, the Chief Justice Jordans, the
bright-faced Mrs. Norman Macleod and
her husband, who represents Latvia, and
Mrs. Asmis, wife of Germany’s Consul,
were others among the many groups. In
a throng that, as far as the women were
concerned, was mostly clad in black
(with touches of glitter in diamente but-
tons, gold nailheads. or sparkling ear-
rings), slim, dark Lulu Lowe was as
bright as the lilac in her mauve frock
and hat.
The Coronation matinee in aid of the
Sister Kenny clinic is expected to bring
in about £2OO, so an enthusiastic com-
mittee worker murmured. Last Thurs-
day this seemed more than probable, for
the Royal was packed. President Mrs.
David Knox, Mrs. E. G. Theodore and
others who helped the success were on
the doorstep, smartly dressed for the
arrival of Hermione Llewellyn, Lady
Wakehurst’s secretary, and David Loder,
who came to represent mother. Young
David sat in a box, holding a glitteringly
wrapped cargo of chocolates. A great
box of flowers had been sent to Lady
Wakehurst in place of the bouquet that
would have been hers. From the open-
ing sketch by Dell Davies the programme
went with a bang. Gladys Moncrieff,
in a frock of white chiffon that drew a
long train and glittered with diamente
shoulder clips, sang like a lark. Sweets
were sold from red, white and blue trays,
and some of the programmes had a
lucky number. Mrs. Knox told of the
work of the clinic.
“Don Giovanni” is an opera which is
seldom produced in Australia. The last
time this Letter listened to it was at a,
Sunday performance in the Opera House
of Florence. The tenor was Dino Bor-
gioli, doubly linked with Sydney, in that
he sang here with the last Melba opera
season, and that his wife is one of the
well-known Mort family. Now the un-
tiring Hilda Mulligan and Roland Foster
are about to produce the opera at the
Conservatorium, with the vivid little
Marie Ryan singing the part of Zerlina,
the flirtatious peasant girl.
This opera has three sopranos: Donna
Anna, Donna Elvira and Zerlina. The
two donnas will be Doris Julius and
Alice Houghton. Don Juan, the naughty,
will be played by David Barwell. New
scenery and costumes —the period prop-
erly vetted by Hilda Mulligan, who has
sung Elvira in Italian productions—will
make the staging the most elaborate the
Con. has yet seen. The curtain goes up
on May 22.
Alice Gould, looking as pretty as a
picture in a jaunty little suit and beret
of crushed strawberry hue, was the sub-
ject of a farewell party arranged by
Elsie Dumolo. This brought an impos-
ing representation of the higher brain to
the Women’s Club, and several budding
actresses. Part of the fun was stepping
out on the roof and gazing out over the
city. Down below, Hyde Park was
spread like a carpet, the Archibald Foun-
tain and St. Mary’s Cathedral stood out,
things of beauty, and over everything
hung the blue haze that is the charm of
winter afternoons. Tea and coffee,
savories and sweets lured the slim to
plumpness and the plump to destruction.
The Macleod Gallery is blazing with
the color of a Norman Lindsay show.
To-morrow will be opening day, and on
Friday Norman was busy with Victor
Mann seeing that all things worked
together for good. All the purple-
blues, the peacock tones, the tea-rose
yellows, the rose and scarlet that only
this Lindsay’s brush can squander burn
in the canvases that make, the show. The
oil-paintings are vigorous. The face of
the third man in “Mutiny” might be
something seen by Dante in the Inferno.
It-holds the agony of one who has suf-
fered hell dumbly.
When the Girl Guide rally to the glory
of the Coronation turns the Showground
into a spirited pattern of self-reliant
young womanhood, remember the girl
in this picture. She is Eleanor Manning,
whose father is Attorney-General Man-
ning, and she has put in good work
organising the rally. Dorothy Welding
photograph.
The party at Radstokb, the Walter
Burfitt Elizabeth Bay home, was one of
the week’s successes. It was to welcome
Dr. Walter Burfitt, jun., and his bride,
just back from their honeymoon. The
rooms brought a breath from mountain
gardens at Mt. Wilson in their decora-
tions of copper-beech and other rich
foliage. The hostess’s frock was of
richly-flowered georgette, and Mrs.
Walter Burfitt, jun., was vivid in black
velvet and silver furs. Esmey Burfitt and
Cecily and Ella Gilmore helped make
up the younger element. The Navy and
all Elizabeth Bay were there in force.
The Dixsons, of Elwatan, represented
Castle Hill, and the Francis Andersons
the Rivers element. The Chief Justice
Jordans, John Lane Mullins, Mrs. Craw-
ford Robertson and Mrs. “Paddy”
Moran, her black suit topped by a trig
tarn beret, were others noted.
Most of the people who were at the
Burfitt reception turned up again at the
A.B.C. symphony concert. The star
attraction was, of course, Lotte Leh-
mann’s singing, but even without that
the concert would have been well worth
an evening's attention. The singer was
superb, and from the moment she ap-
peared in a silvery sheen of satin the
enthusiasm rose in a steady wave, break-
ing like a thundering surf when some
admirer sent up a large-size ’roo clutch-
ing pink flowers. To see father conduct,
Guenda and Helen Bainton sat with
mother. A.B.C.’s Commissioner Cleary
was there with Mrs. Cleary and their
daughters. The rest of the Commission’s
headquarters staff was on parade.
Red overalls and blue slippers are worn
by the Forest Lodgers, and the fours and
fives of this the original day nursery
were a pool of brightness as they
sat in a ring on a playroom floor while
two girl teachers played the piano for
them, singing with them. How serious
they were when they sang of the sleep-
ing beauty with the tall wood growing
up around her! How blithely they
clapped their hands when the Prince came
riding by on his charger! How impor-
tant was the small man who later took
the part of the traffic policeman, seeing
that the crossing was safe for the old
man reading his paper, the lady complete
with parasol going to town to do her
shopping, the gentleman who strode
across the puddles, the little boy who
was late for school! This Day Nursery
safety and happiness for her babe are
secured by the working mother for six-
pence a day. That doesn’t nearly pay
the expenses, so many of Sydney’s big-
hearted women are constantly working
for the cause.
Poetess Dorothea Mackellar, com-
poser Howard Carr, National Gallery
director Will Ashton and his wife, Hugh
Pcynter and his lady and dozens more
exponents of art, letters and music
gathered at Harry Tighe’s bidding last
Sunday afternoon. The party filled the
reception-rooms at Holyoak. Here were
the Herrick Knowles couple, the David
Knoxes, Dr. Temple Smith, Professor
Sadler and his wife. Linda Paul’s soft
woollen coat in oatmeal shades had a
swagger back and an upright collar—a
military touch. Violet Roche, who
brought an artist cousin from Maori-
land, sported Robin Hood greens in hat
and frock, and a smart mustard-toned
suit was worn by Lulu Lowe. Mrs.
Arthur Cheeke, Mrs. John Moreing, her
tall young son and Patrick Bellew all
came together. After tea everybody went
upstairs to another room and gazed out
on harbor views .that in the fading light
took on the semblance of Japanese
prints. Mrs. T. Wallace and veteran
journalist Mrs. F. Aronson were others
who enjoyed the hospitality.
Maorilander Ernest Empson unleashed
Bach and Brahms in the grand manner
at the Forum Club last week. The pianist
was in great form, and the two hundred
or more listeners burst into applause that
was of Town Hall dimensions. There
was an intimate feeling about this audi-
ence, as the pianist and his wife were
known to most of the listeners. Mrs.
Empson, a study in black-and-white, sat
near Neville Smith, another Maorilander,
and the Erik Langkers. Mrs. Norman
Macleod, wife of the Latvian Consul,
was there, wearing black lace under a
fur coat. A close-fitting black toque
sporting two red hibiscus blooms suited
her dark head. Singer Alice Prowse had
her black chiffons slashed with gold.
Mrs. David Knox wrapped her hyacinth
blues in black velvet.
Last Friday’s sherry party at the
Women Pioneers’ Club is the last the
members are likely to hold at the Mac-
quarie-street address. Warrigal, the
building which houses them, and which
earlier in its life was the home of the
Warrigal Club, has been sold, and house-
hunting has become still another of the
occupations of president Mrs. Lingham
and secretary Carlo tta Doyle. There
w ? as a Coronation atmosphere about last
week’s five-to-seven. The loyal toast was
drunk, every guest looking towards the
portraits of the King and Queen. Around
the pictures on the mantel were grouped
arrangements of red, white and blue
flowers. Each plate of cakes flew a tiny
silk Union Jack made by Carlotta Doyle,
and touches of red, white and blue were
introduced into the frocking. Carlotta
Doyle wore hers in a flower spray on
her black moire frock, and as the even-
ing wore on the lapels of the men’s coats
bloomed patriotic with the silk flags com
mandeered from the cake plates.


rr-^
0. K.
%
w
A-
sheaf:
ZP6
V-
V
r
A
J
'/
>m
IT
V
£C~>
PS
v
y\\
A
£
'7
X
V
\
z
V
o
§s*g:
p
»
2
>9,
A
*/
x
SSC
BETTER
ON SHEA F
5.5.88.F.P.
s ** *
▼
1
IN BOTTLES HALF BOTTLES AND BABY BOTTLES


SHOPPING, meeting and escorting children,
driving cars in city, engaging domestics. —
MARGARET RUSSELL, Amaroo, Albany
Road, Toorak, Vic., U 4032.
d
The World’s Smallest Effective
Hearing-Aid—No Cords, No Batteries.
30 Ssi™ Vibraphone
Write for
B. NATH AN 87 Austral Bldgs.
113 Collins Street, Melbourne
mm
Always
carry a
small tin in
pocket or
purse
3
HUDSON
EUMENTHOL'W
JUJUBES
For Coughs,
Colds,
Influenza.
6d. & 1/6 fin
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 366 of 1937.
BETWEEN ALEXANDER JAMES LODDER
Petitioner
And GLADYS LODDER Respondent.
TO GLADYS LODDER late of Dumaresq
Street Gordon and Toobeah Queensland.
TAKE NOTICE that the said ALEXANDER
JAMES LODDER has commenced a suit
against you in this Honorable Court and is
applying for a dissolution of marriage on the
grounds of desertion without just cause or ex-
cuse for three years and upwards AND
TAKE NOTICE that you are required to enter
an appearance to the said suit at the proper
office of this Honorable Court on or before
the fourth day of August 1937 and in the event
of your not doing so within the time limited
or obtaining further time the Petitioner will
proceed and the suit be heard and determined
your absence notwithstanding, A copy of the
petition filed herein may be had on application
to the undersigned Solicitor free of charge.
DATED this Fifth day of May, One thou-
sand nine hundred and thirty-seven.
For the Registrar,
(L.S.) R. S. JOHNSON,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
C. P. Dignam, Solicitor for the Petitioner,
160 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 692 of 1937.
BETWEEN MARY JANE ELIZABETH
DOOLAN Petitioner
And THOMAS STANLEY DOOLAN
Respondent.
TO THOMAS STANLEY DOOLAN.
TAKE NOTICE that the said MARY JANE
ELIZABETH DOOLAN has commenced a
suit against you in this Honorable Court and
is applying for a dissolution of marriage on
the grounds of your desertion of the said
Mary Jane Elizabeth Doolan AND TAKE
NOTICE that you are required to enter an
appearance to the said suit at the proper office
of this Honorable Court on or before the
Eourtn day ol August One thousand nine hun-
dred and thirty-seven and in the event of your
not doing so within the time limited or obtain-
ing further time the Petitioner will proceed and
the suit will be heard and determined your
absence notwithstanding. A copy of the peti-
tion filed herein may be had on application to
the undersigned Solicitor free of charge.
DATED this 7th day of May, One thou-
sand nine hundred and thirty-seven.
For the Registrar,
(1.5.) R. S. JOHNSON,
Clerk in Divorce.
A WACHSMANN, Solicitor for the Peti-
tioner, 79 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
Corns Sentenced to Death.
Corns have worried you—now worry them:
although “worry” is hardly the word, for
A’CORN SILK does not trifle with corns, but
ruthlessly kills them. How comtoitable your
feet feel a* ,er A'CORN SILK has removed
all your soft or hard corns —a 6d. packet will
do this for you without pain or inconvenience.
Corns are killed while you sleep—a matter ot
a few hours. Chemists sell A’CORN SILK at
6d. per packet. Packed by Felton, Grimwdde
and Duerdins, Ltd., Melbourne.
Melbourne
Chatter
Dr. Gwynneth Buchanan’s talk on her
experiences in Cracow, Poland, was the
twist in the tail of Saturday afternoon's
ceremony, the first public inspection of
the University Women’s College, a
bright, light, airy building with plenty
of windows and steam heaters and the
fresh, pungent smell of newly-planed
wood. The institution offers accommo-
dation for 18 students, with eight so far
in residence. Evelyn Syme, who is well
known for her lino.- and woodcuts, was
convener of the furnishing committee.
Shades of beige and brown are the
groundwork of the study-bedrooms (all
of which were furnished by private dona-
tions), the girl occupants having a share
in choosing their own curtains. Curtains
in the dining-room are Gloucester-green,
and the keynote of the snug common-
room is for indeterminate beige in
corded material for easy-chairs and
lounges. There are shower-rooms in
plenty, and the students have a pantry
and ironing-room of their own.
Among those present on Saturday
were Chancellor James Barrett and his
lady, college principal Miss S. Williams,
the bursar, Miss G. M. Mandeville-Halls,
Mrs. G. H. Cowling, wearing a high fur
collar to her black coat, Mrs. R. W.
McKellar, Mrs. B. Fitzpatrick, with an
osprey twined round the crown of her
black hat, Mrs. E. E. Waddell, in green,
and Evelyn Syme, in brown. Students
who helped with tea included Elizabeth
Pitt, Daidre Masel and Elizabeth Wade,
the college’s three music students, who
have among them on the premises two
pianos and a silent keyboard.
To illustrate her lecture Dr. Buchanan
brought a great number of photographs
and several interesting examples of
Polish arts and crafts—weaving, leather-
work, carving and painting of wood and
so forth. She had several adventures
in Poland, for her French was of little
use, and Dorothy Coverlid’s fluent Ger-
man was not always available. Dr.
Buchanan said that catching trains was
not always easy, even with a Polish
friend, for the trains never run on time,
and even the guards seem vague about
their destination. She was advised by
English friends to take insect powder
with her to Poland, for even a biologist
prefers to keep the animal kingdom at
a proper distance. Dr. Buchanan con-
siders herself very lucky (far luckier than
her companions), for she didn’t once
have to use insecticide.
St. Catherine’s Old Girls’ Dramatic
Society ran a two nights’ season with
“Marigold,” produced by Nancy Ford,
for the Prince Henry Hospital Girls’
ward and the Orthopaedic Hospital at
Frankston. Margaret Cox, an ingenue
in her first year away from school, gave
Marigold graceful movements and a
charming speaking voice. Joan Colman
rolled off a Scottish burr as a pert
little maid. Kathleen Lascelles was the
respectable widow Pringle, and Pat
Wenzel as the Frenchwoman exchanged
a damson-red travelling suit of the first
act to take part in the happy ending with
golden crinoline and feathers piled upon
her blue bonnet. Margaret Turner (who
had profitable stage experience in the
thorough rehearsing of “Lower Depths”)
and Cynthia Vernon-Smith hid them-
selves under the wrinkles of a couple of
elderly maiden aunts. Allan Fleming,
in his enthusiasm of playing hero, forgot
that stage eating is done by nibbles and
took a normal bite out of a sandwich
which had to outlast the act.
Among those present on the first night
were St. Catherine’s principal, Miss
Langley, and headmistress Miss Holmes,
the Albion Walkley couple and Lynette,
wearing shell-pink and her hair in a soft
halo roll; Mrs. Lennox Spiers, in moss-
green shot taffeta; Mrs. Irwin Hinds,
with Mildred and Richard, and Dot
Eckersall, whose white crepe frock was
elaborated with perpendicular flounces
of white lined with dark red. Programme
sellers were Freda Connolly in pinky-sil-
very lame and a white fox fur, and
Phyllis Timmins, whose Gloucester-
green velvet coat showed the original
notion of large fur-covered buttons. Sell-
ing flowers and sweets were. Gwen Rose,
garbed to suit her name in floral frock
and deep-red sash, Betty Tompkins, June
Theomin, Verlie Anderson, in sea-green
taffeta, and Margery Carney, in lilac
chiffon with a split back to show her
smooth coat of suntan. Peggy Harrison-
Owen wore coronation-green, Betty Mel-
ville a fur cape over a flowered dress,
Elise Brett cream chiffon and Peggy Mol-
lard a black velvet coat to her ankles.
Mrs. Keith Halley chose black and
Meryl Fink was the girl on the little
blue plate in her willow-patterned linen.
Victoria Golf Club had mild weather
for its official guest day, an annual event
when two official members of each
affiliated club are entertained with special
ceremony. At tea the visitors, complete
with healthy appetites acquired in com-
peting for Mrs. Len Buxton’s trophy,
were entertained with special ceremony
at the committee table. Those who de-
parted with the spoils of victory were
Mrs. Guy Springthorpe and Mrs. A.
Mather, who upheld the honor of Metro-
politan, and of the home players Mrs.
Earl Moser and Mrs. McCay, who were
successful in winning prizes donated by
Mrs. A. Cunningham and Mrs. E.
McPherson.
In the Broothorn portrait is Mrs. D.
Mewton-Wood, mother of pianist-
prodigy Noel, whose farewell concert
took place at Melbourne Town Hall last
Saturday night.
The late Frederick. Mewton, who was
organist at St. Andrew’s Cathedral, Syd-
ney, and the late W. J. Thomas, who was
well known in connection with concerts
some years ago, would have been proud
uncles of their nephew had they lived to
see him such a promising musician at 14.
Noel, who went to Carey Grammar
School until he was 12, has had a tutor
for the last two years. His music teacher
is Waldemar Seidel, at the Conserva-
torium. At 12 he won an exhibition
scholarship in Grade I piano and spent
six hours in one day collecting honors
in Grade I harmony and counterpoint.
He is also a composer, and claims to have
his signature to 101 compositions, vary-
ing from unpretentious exercises to
sonatas. Noel, like his pal Philip Har-
grave, who is a year and a half older, is
happiest when in the company of lads
of his own age.
The exigencies of business made few
demands on men asked to the afternoon
wedding of Pat Moran and Max Cooch.
The lads—many of them, like the ushers,
in morning dress —turned up in force to
the Toorak kirk, where the ceremony
was performed by Dr. John Mackenzie.
The reception took place in a marquee
in the Leonard Morans’ garden in
Queen’s-road, and within their home,
where wedding presents included several
pictures by well-known artists. Round
about dusk ’maids Alice Mclntosh,
Phyllis Dethridge, Mary Wallace and
Kathleen Grant-Hay removed their tulle-
and-feather headdresses, gathered up the
trains of their mist-blue velvet gowns
and went off to dinner and dancing at
the Embassy with the ’groom’s retinue,
Douglas Sharp, Ron Umphelby, Gordon
Tait and Alistair Cooch, and a few more
young people. The newly-married pair
are making a motoring honeymoon with
a couple of suitcases and their golf clubs.
Max plays good golf and squash, and
Pat has distinguished herself at tennis.
The news that Melbourne is losing
Fritz Hart is regrettable, but not alto-
gether unexpected. The ex-director of
the Albert-street Conservatorium is now
director of music at the University of
Honolulu. For many years his services
have been sought for annual journeys to
Honolulu to conduct the orchestra, a
considerable honor when there was all
the talent of the U.S.A. to draw upon.
An Englishman by birth, Mr. Hart came
to Australia in connection with concerts
before the war. He remained here, and
was for a time acting director at Albert-
street, which position was made perma-
nent on the resignation of Marshall Hall.
Harold Elvins is Mr. Hart’s successor.
Artist John Rowell writes in satisfied
vein from London, for he has been given
a grant by the Carnegie Corporation of
New York and may extend his studies to
the U.S.A. The same week news came
of his winning of the Crouch Memorial
Prize. Mr. Rowell visited the Picasso
exhibition, and was very interested in the
Holbein drawings and in the Chinese
and Japanese sections of the Victoria and
Albert Museum. It is his first trip abroad,
and he writes that he is getting “shocks
both ways” and reshuffling his ideas on
various masters. It is not expected that
he, primarily a conventional and realistic
painter, will return home a converted
modernist, but his last bit of news is in-
teresting in connection with the verbal
battle on art being waged under the
generalship of R. G. Menzies and
George Bell. Menzies is calling for
standardisation ; Bell claims that artistic
tastes are neither uniform nor static, that
an artist may change his views and that
what looks right to one man seems
wrong to another.
More than half the pictures exhibited
during the last fortnight at the
Athenaeum by Jo Sweatman were
painted round about Warrandyte, where
the artist has her home. There is quite a
painters’ colony in this little township,
which clings to the upper reaches of the
Yarra. Miss Sweatman has a charming
cottage with garden to match. Mrs.
Flinn (Clara Southern) is her not-far-
distant neighbor, and Harry Hoile,
Adrian Lawlor and Frank Crozier are a
trio who enjoy frying their own chops
and sausages after a day in the open
with easels and paintboxes.
Helen Lebenson, whose portrait is by
Ronald-Pierre, is an American girl from
the plains of Texas, not the desert. Her
home address is Wichita Falls. She
arrived in Melbourne in March to stay
with relatives, see something of Aus-
tralia and enrol at the university for arts
and some musical subjects. The visitor’s
cute accent and vivacious manner make
her very popular with lecturers, students
and any other Australians whom she has
met. Helen is a member of the ballet
in the home-brewed burlesque “Rhodes
to Glory,” for which the dancing girls
have been rehearsing so hard that their
academic careers have for the moment
been blown away on a few bars of
swing time.
City art exhibitions are faced with a
bad buying year, for so many wealthy
people and well-known buyers are away
at the Coronation, but there was no
apathy about the Heidelberg show. Many
townsfolk motored up for the opening,
to increase the crowd of locals to such
an extent that a safety valve had to be
opened in the shape of the main hall, the
pressure in the reception-room, where the
pictures were hung, being so great that
it was impossible to make the speeches
there. Cr. Reid deputised at the cere-
mony in place of Arthur Streeton, who
was absent through illness. Murray
Griffin’s painting, “River and Hills from
Eaglemont, Heidelberg,” was purchased
for 50 guineas by the council as a gift
to the Mayor and city of Germany’s
Heidelberg. Griffin, who was art master
at Scotch College, has been appointed to
the staff of Melbourne Technical College
as a teacher of design. In a previous
year he was the winner of a Crouch
(Ballarat) Memorial Prize.
The Tom Mitchells are entertaining
Edward Chauvel, of the 19th Lancers,
stationed at Delhi. This officer, on leave,
a brother of Mrs. Mitchell and a son of
General Chauvel, has returned to Mel-
bourne to find his sister as interested in
ski-ing as she used to be in hunting. She
did well to become an expert at a difficult
sport in one season, but she had a good
teacher. Tom Mitchell has been three
times amateur champion of Australia and
last year was captain of Australia’s vic-
torious team at the inter-Dominion meet-
ing at Chateau Tongariro. This year the
meeting is to be held at Kosciusko. Mr.
Mitchell is also a writer, and has recently
published Ski Heil, a textbook for experts
and beginners.
From Monday till Friday the main
body of the Town Hall was occupied by
the Better Housekeeping Exhibition in
aid of the Cancer Fund. An exception
among the stalls, most of which were set
up with modern aids for making house-
keeping all interest and no drudgery, was
a toy stall with the place of honor given
to a coronation coach and its retinue.
Mrs. C. L. Larkins and Mrs. P. H. Foster,
who were in charge, explained that sol-
diers never go out of fashion. Mrs.
Larkins has a warm corner in her heart
reserved for Rover, a black setter with a
duck in his mouth. He, like the Mickey
Mouses, Donald Duck, Pluto and Larry
the spring lamb with daisies in his mouth,
is protected by patents and royalties. So
far Australian animals are everybody's
property, and ’roos, koalas and duckbill
platypuses, modelled from life more or
less, are valuable raw material for
designers of imagination.


LOOK AT THESE AMAZING PRICES.
fd
Remington Portable (4 bank) £lO 0 0
Remington Standard £7 15 0
Remington Noiseless £ll io 0
and a large selection of other makes of typewriters from £5/10/-.
These give you an idea of the bargains Chartres offer. Chartres’
easy terms are available. ’Phone, write or call at Chartres, and a
machine will be delivered to your home or office for free trial, for
Chartres’ service vans cover almost the whole of N.S.W. This
places you under no obligation,
FREE CARBON PAPER.
See Chartres’ great display of reconditioned typewriters to-day.
If you cannot call, write for full particulars. And when you buy
your typewriter, be sure to present a clipping of this advertise-
ment. It entitles you to a FREE, generous-sized packet of carbon
paper—enough to last for many months.
CHARTRES, LTD.,
Tdverpool and Nitlisdale Sts., Sydney (’Phone M 6481—11 lines).
Also at South British Insuranee Bldgs., Bolton St., Neweastle.
Backache
8c Bladder
Weakness?
IKY THIS NEW SCIENTIFIC REMEDY
Kidney Acidity and Bladder Weak-
ness are now being quickly overcome
by a new, revolutionary method that
is simple, natural and scientific.
Specialists have traced the cause of
Burning and Smarting, Backache,
Bladder troubles, Boot and Beg
Fains, Getting up Nights, Frequent
Bay Calls, Boss of Vigour, Nervous-
ness and Constipation to self-poison-
ing, i.e., a clogged colon. Bue to the
inactivity of the colon (large intes-
tine) all the food refuse is not passed
out of the body. Instead, it encrusts
on the colon walls and there putrefies.
Virulent poisons and bacteria seep
into the bloodstream which carries
them to the kidneys and bladder.
These poisons impede the action of
the kidneys. Irritating acids that
should be passed out in the water are
allowed to remain and inflame the
delicate kidney filters thus causing
pain, distress, weakness and embar-
rassment.
To get rid of kidney complaints and
bladder weakness you must remove
the encrustations on the colon. Nor-
mal bowel movements cannot do this
—the walls of the colon have become
inactive. Opening medicines only
purge the lower end of the colon, so
drink warm water and ‘Coloseptic’
every morning. This simple plan
cleanses the colon, tones up the
walls, giving them back their power
of normal movement.
‘Coloseptic’ corrects acid conditions in the
oolon, kidneys and bladder. It stimulates
kidney and bladder action. ‘Coloseptic’ also
stimulates the action of the pores of the
skin and the lungs—important organs which
eliminate poisons from your system. ‘Colo-
septic’ promptly establishes internal clean-
ness thus helping your body work smoothly
and naturally. Get ‘Coloseptic’ from your
chemist to-day. Individual size, 2/9;
Economy size, 5/6.
FREE SAMPBE
Sand 3d. stamps for postage; a liberal Free
Trial Sample and interesting, intimate book
will be sent you. COLOSEPTIC (AUST.)
LTD., 26 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
“J. Want”: Brisbane’s only morning
newspaper has moved house. For 50
years the “Courier” sat down in a large
building which in the ’eighties was the
pride of its proprietors. Nearly 40 years
ago its rival, the “Daily Mail,” acquired
a ramshackle edifice further down the
street which used to shake to the music
of the presses and through the stairs of
which, in the early days, a more than
usually bulky reporter fell on top of the
cable editor, who lived in a cupboard
underneath them. When in 1933 the
Melbourne “Herald” people extended
their operations to Brisbane one of the.
first steps arranged was to put up a new
building on the site of the old “Mail”
office. So the* “Mail” half of the
“Courier-Mail” seems to have
won more than half the honors
in the marriage of papers —its
g.m. is a “Mail” man, and its
home is now on ground dyed
with more than a generation of
“Mail” ink.
ijc jfc H*
“Kaloa”: A Herr Leutwein,
son of a former Governor of
German West Africa, says in
a new book that Germany is
prepared to leave Japan in pos-
session of former German
islands “as a natural completion
of her sphere of power.” He
believes, also, that Germany .is
prepared to waive claims to
Australian and Maoriland man-
dated lands in return for
1,000,000 square miles of Africa.
It would be a good bargain.
The Japanese mandated islands
were bought from Spain in
1899 for £450,000, and when
war broke out there were
scarcely enough Germans there
to hold a Bierfest. Mandated
New Guinea is only 90,000
square miles, but its possession
is vital to Australia’s defence
interests, and it never supported
even a couple of thousand Ger-
mans. So, since the N.G. man-
date is not rich in grain, com-
mon metals, coal or meat or
dairying resources, Germany can
afford to pass it over for a bit
of highland Africa, near to
home, one-third the size of
Australia and over five times the size
of Germany.
* * * *
“Fi fa.”: The indictment of Queens-
land’s mean and scurvy treatment of its
Judges (B. 28/4/’37) is well deserved.
Fifty years ago Mr. Justice Cooper—later
C.J. —fought bitter battles with the then
Colonial Secretary and Attorney-General
about his expenses on circuit. Some of
the items certainly were rather remark-
able, for his Honor had a fine taste in
Mines and cookery and a hospitable dis-
position. The climax came when, sitting
in the Supreme Court at Townsville, the
Judge read out various communications
between himself and the Ministers, deli-
vered himself of scathing comments cn
their meanness, and announced that un-
less he received an assurance from the
Colonial Secretary that his expenses
would be properly met he would close
the court and discharge all the prisoners.
The Crown Prosecutor persuaded the
irate Judge to permit an adjournment of
two hours, the Colonial Sec. knuckled
down by telegram and business pro-
ceeded.
*.* * *
“X.T.”: Three, hardy northern
musketeers are cursing the flapper-press
hysterics which credited Darwin with
having been blown away to the tune of
£lOO,OOO worth of damage. Having
heard about it down on the Ord, through
radio excerpts from the. press, they
donned their moggins and footed it to
Wyndham in time to catch the Koolinda,
which was on her way to the supposedly
devastated area. The purser found them
hiding in a bathroom, and they explained
that they had no money, but were taking
a chance of a job removing the Darwin
debris and rebuilding the city. An un-
sympathetic steamship company handing
them over to the police at Palmerston
Jetty, they were fined a pound each and
ordered to pay the steamer fares, in de-
fault a rest out at Fanny Bay to meditate
on the foolishness of believing everything
the morning press tells the North
through the microphone.
* * * #
“Gain”: Since a mass meeting at
Rabaul a few months ago demanded
greater protection for white women the
Administration has been trying sterner
measures. Early in April a Rabaul
houseboy was sentenced to a year
with hard labor and two whippings,
each of 18 strokes, for “being on
“Thanks Ma. Open it an' let's ’ave a look at it .”
premises with intent indecently to insult
a white woman.” Another “boy” was
convicted of having indecently dealt with
a European child and insulted a Euro-
pean female. He collected five years’
hard and two whippings, totalling
25 strokes. The same week two more
“boys” were committed for trial on in-
decent-insult charges, so the man who
wields the Rabaul cat appears to have
a fairly permanent job. Whippings may
cure individuals, but only some return
to the old German-time commonsense
isolation of the native and enforcement
of respect for whites by rigid discipline
will right the present position. And
recruited natives should be allowed to
take wives along with them from their
villages. To isolate the nigger from his
womenfolk is to ask for trouble.
**:!--*
“Dungeness”: It will hearten any old
northerner to read of the revival of
tropical journalistic amenities at Cook-
town (N.Q.). The editor of the Cook-
town “Independent” proceeded against
the local doctor for pulling him out of
the sanctum and slapping his face. The
paragraph responsible had something to
do with the shortness of shorts, which
the defendant had taken as a reflection
on his household’s methods of attiring
itself to meet the climate. After wit-
nesses, ranging from a Methodist parson
to a compositor, had given their evi-
dence, the P.M. advised the newspaper
man to delete such matter in future.
Tame stuff to those who recall Jack
Hoolan and “Kuropatkin” Murphy,
not to speak of Bill Denison and the ink-
roller which leaned against his desk, ready
for instant use, Ferdy Sachs’s famous fight
on Townsville beach and a dozen other
purple patches in Far North journalism.
"Australia Jane's" Budget
The Governor and Lady Wilson have
faced a lively week. On the Wednesday
Lady Wilson first looked in at the gift
exhibition of the Needlework Guild in
St. Andrew’s Hall, Creek-street, and then
went to the farewell tea at Parliament
House, where the Premier’s wife and
the wives of Ministers entertained her.
On the Thursday the Moreton Club gave
a farewell party in her honor, and the
same day there was a Parliamentary
luncheon, with the Governor as guest.
A fete at Taringa opened by Lady Wil-
son on the Friday and a foundation-stone
laid by the Governor at Sandgate on the
Saturday finished off the week. When
that was all over they still had to face
a levee, garden party and Naval, Mili-
tary and Air Force Ball before climbing
aboard the mail ’plane for Singapore.
Pretty, fair-haired Thyra Jensen, who
recently celebrated her twenty-first birth-
day at a big party given by her parents,
the Thor Jensens, had another shivoo
given for her—a dinner party, hostessed
by Mrs. Lou McCausland, at Ashgrove.
Thyra wore ice-blue moulded satin and
a white fur cape. Mrs. McCausland was
in black velvet and white Chantilly lace.
Margaret Dash, daughter of Transport
Minister Dash, has started on her round
of pre-wedding teas. Dorothy and May
Dash, the bride-elect’s sisters, have sent
out invitations for theirs, which is to be
at Rowe’s. Marjorie Norval (Mrs.
Forgan Smith’s private secretary) is to
hostess another, and the three Cunning-
ham girls—Lilias, Leila and Doris—are
arranging a third. Prospective hostesses
include Mrs. Pumfrey and Mrs. E. A.
Osborne and daughter Gloria.
Young Joan Maguire, who left re-
cently for Hollywood to stay with screen-
star sister Mary, got a job before she
had been a week in the movie city.
Matron Sorenson and Mrs. Reg Quinn
are to be joint hostesses at the Nurses’
Ball, to be held on May 26. Cynthia
Thorpe is hon. treasurer, and Betty
Hugall hon. treasurer. There aren’t any
debs., but every medico in town is ar-
ranging a party for the ball. The Nurses’
Home is to benefit.
Brisbane has as many country visitors
for Coronation Week as usually arrive
for Show Week. Most of them went
along to the Brisbane Cup. The Bell
family, as usual, provided a solid front.
The F. M. Bells, Major and Mrs. Bert
Bell and Miss Alex. Macdonald were
together; the A. E. Lanagans, of Charle-
ville, and Mrs. F. M. Bell and Molly
O'Driscoll, also from Charleville, were
in another group. The Goondiwindi
contingent included the Walter Gunns.
Elspeth McLeod, of Terrica, sported
silver fox furs. Clare Cummins, an at-
tractive Townsville visitor, went with
Ella O’Shea. Mrs. Harold Greene, over
from India on a holiday, went with her
sister-in-law, Mrs. J. W. Greene.
Mrs. G. A. Chambers, wife of the
Bishop of Central Tanganyika, has been
spending a few days at Bishopsbourne
with Archbishop and Mrs. Wand.
Dodoma, the Bishop’s headquarters, is
300 miles from the coast, and the white
population is about 80, among 10,000
natives. Mrs. Chambers has two sons
at school in England, and she divides
her time between them and her husband.
Una White, of Albilbah, Blackall,
marries R. W. Smith, of Dumbarton,
Taroom, in June at St. John’s. Mrs.
Alex. White, of Oakey (she was Mary
Hiil, of Brisbane), will be matron of
honor, and Laura White bridesmaid.
Mrs. N. F. White and Una have taken
a flat at New Farm until the wedding-
day. There’s a good deal of entertain-
ing planned for the prospective bride.
Naomi Brown, who married Francis
E. Milner Clarkson in the chapel at
Bishopsbourne, wore a veil that has been
admired by hundreds of women. It is
the property of Mrs. J. Culliford,
Dulacca, and was shown some years ago
in an All-Australian exhibition of
women’s work arranged by the Country
Women’s Association.
At the Lyceum Club literary evening,
held once a year, original verses, articles
and short stories written by members
are read before being printed in the
Lyceum’s annual magazine. Mrs. M.
Hamlyn Harris edits the magazine, and
is convener of the literary circle. This
year Mrs. E. A. D. Amos presided over
the meeting, and contributions were read
from Doris Waraker (a poem), a nature
study by Estelle Thomson, a short story
by Mrs. Firmin McKinnon and a char-
acter sketch by Lilian Paten.
Dr. Philip Frossard, ship’s surgeon on
the Mongolia, wrote the musical score
of a light opera—libretto by Jeffery Far-
nol —which is shortly to be produced in
London. The Dailey Scarletts gave a
party for him at their home at High-
gate Hill while the Mongolia was here,
and most of Brisbane’s musicians went
along. Dr. Frossard played several of
his own compositions.
Girl Guides and Brownies had a Coro-
nation service of their own —before the
actual day. Lady Wilson was there, and
Lady Macartney, the State Commis-
sioner. About 1400 Guides and Brownies,
with their officers, went to the service'
Archbishop Wand gave an address.
Norda Mata, the German creative and
interpretative dancer who recently be-
came Mrs. A. Hodges, of Brisbane, hasn’t
abandoned her career altogether. She gave
a demonstration of her art at All Saints’
Halt during the week, and drew a good
audience.


SHE DOES HIGHLAND
FLING AT 72
Old Lady Tells Secret of
Her Vigour.
The writer of the following letter once suf-
fered from rheumatism, headaches and depres-
sion. Then one day a vigorous old lady told
her the secret of good health. And now she
v/rites to tell others how she discovered ‘a
wonderful sense of well-being and joy in life’:
“Kruschen was recommended to me by an
old lady of 72 who can dance the Highland
Fling like a young girl—thanks* to Kruschen,
which she has used for 30 years. She told me to
take Kruschen Salts to try and cure a dull, heavy
headache from which I suffered every morning
on wakening. I was also troubled with rheuma-
tism in both shoulders. Kruschen turned the
trick. The headache disappeared and so did
the rheumatism. I have continued taking
Kruschen because it gives me a wonderful
sense of well-being and enjoyment of life.” —
(Mrs.) F.B. W.
Kruschen is a combination of six natural
salts which stimulate your liver, kidneys and
digestive tract to healthy, regular activity.
They ensure internal cleanliness, and keep the
blood-stream pure.
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF VICTORIA.
Divorce and
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 101 of 1937.
BETWEEN ARTHUR CALLARD Petitioner
And ELIZABETH JOSEPHINE CAL-
LARD Respondent.
TO ELIZABETH JOSEPHINE CALLARD
formerly care of Y.W.C.A. Upper Queen
Street Auckland New Zealand Married
Woman but now of parts unknown the
abovenamed Respondent.
TAKE NOTICE that your husband ARTHUR
CALLARD has instituted proceedings against
you lor divorce in the Supreme Court ol Vic-
toria on the ground of desertion. Unless you
enter an appearance in the Prothonot'ary’s
office of the Supreme Court in Melbourne on
or before the Ist day of June 1937 and file an
answer in the said office on or before the
11th day of June 1937 if you intend to defend
this suit the case may proceed in your absence.
MALIONY, O’BRIEN & HARTY,
20 Queen Street, Melbourne,
Solicitors for the Petitioner.
This advertisement is inserted pursuant to
an order of his Honor Mr. Justice Lowe, made
in the Practice Court, Supreme Court, Mel-
bourne, on the 29th day of April, 1937.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1871 of 1936.
BETWEEN HILDA JANE SHERRIFF Peti-
tioner
And CLARENCE ALEXANDER
SHERRIFF Respondent.
TO CLARENCE ALEXANDER SHERRIFF
formerly of 8 Mitchell Street Dubbo in
the State of New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said HILDA JANE
SHERRIFF has commenced a suit against you
in this Honorable Court and is applying for a
dissolution of marriage on the grounds of de-
sertion for three years and upwards without
just cause or excuse AND TAKE NOTICE
that you are required to enter an appearance
to the said suit at the proper office of this
Honorable Court on or before the Twenty-
eighth day of July One thousand nine hundred
and thirty-seven and in the event of you not
doing so within the time limited or obtaining
further time the Petitioner will proceed and the
suit be heard and determined your absence not-
withstanding. A copy of the petition filed
herein has been forwarded to you under cover
of envelope addressed to your mother Mrs.
Sherriff at her last known address.
DATED this Twenty-ninth day of April, One
thousand nine hundred and thirty-seven.
For the Registrar,
(L.S.) E. L. DICKSON,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
J. E. SLEEMAN, Solicitor for the Petitioner,
133 Pitt Street, Sydney.
TO LANCELOT PATRICK TRYE husband
of ELIZABETH TRYE of Inaha Tara-
naki New Zealand.
TAKE NOTICE that a citation has been
issued out of the Supreme Court of New Zea-
land at New Plymouth citing you to appear and
answer the petition of ELIZABETH TRYE of
Inaha New Zealand wherein she prays that she
be divorced from you on the ground of deser-
tion and such citation intimates that in default
of your so doing the Court will proceed to hear
the said petition and to pronounce sentence
therein notwithstanding your absence NOW
THEREFORE TAKE NOTICE that for the
purpose aforesaid you are within thirty days
after the date of the last publication of this
advertisement on the 19th day of May 1937 to
attend in person or by your solicitor at the
Supreme Court Office at New Plymouth and
there to enter an appearance without which you
will not be allowed to address the Court at
any stage of the procedings. A copy of the said
citation and petition will be supplied to you on
your applying for the same at the Supreme
Court Office at New Plymouth.
DATED this 19th day of April, 1937.
L. W. LOUISSON,
Registrar.
Friends of the Respondent are particularly
requested to forward to him the foregoing
advertisement.
JOHN HOUSTON, of Hawera, New Zealand,
is the Solicitor for the Petitioner, whose address
for service is at the office of MESSIELJRS
CROKER & McCORMICK, Solicitors.
Brougham Street, New Plymouth, New Zealand.
;
sir*
siaasi
r % <*{V /kci. \
y :
: 7r : ' -&Z
‘ Js > .%*'
wamm
Sillis
*
*9 j
At your service—this smart new Airway Luggage, suitable
for travel by land, air or sea —to make packing easier and
unpacking a real pleasure, as your clothes open fresh and
uncreased. The luggage itself is exceptionally light, and dis-
tinctively striped “Airway” Fabric covers the amazingly strong
Basswood foundation, while interlocked joints assure absolute
freedom from “travel-strain.” For winter tours and all travel
select Airway Luggage. Junior Wardrobe is priced at
£lO/10/-; Wardrolette, £7/10/-; Men’s Garment Case, £6
and £7/2/6; Ladies’, £6; Blouse Cases, 22in. and 24in.,
67/6 and 72/6; Suit Case, 26in., 88/6; Hat Box, 75/-.
This modern Luggage is exclusive to
PIKE BROTHERS LIMITED,
Leading Outfitters, Queen Street, Brisbane.
THE LITTLE SISTERS.
WESTRALIA.
For the Repertory Club’s All Nations
Ball the massive pillars in Government
House ballroom were girt with hand-
painted posters of figures in national
costumes, the bays were hung with life-
sized murals of national life and the
supper-room was decked with a riot of
paper' roses. The waving plumes of
Edna Smily’s Nell Gwynne outfit led the
march alongside Bill Scott’s Charles 11.
rigout; Mollie Learmonth’s floating
mantilla crowned her effective Spanish
dress, and Kay Kinnane’s jewelled-snake
headdress coiled above the scarlet and
jade velvets of Medusa. The Ross Am-
brose couple came as Hungarian
peasants;, Mrs. John Hicks was classi-
cally Grecian even to the set of her
blonde curls; Kath Coronel’s dusky
make-up set off the gleaming white satin
of her Abyssinian costume; Bill Tre-
thowan won a prize with his Russian
trappings and Pat McManus arranged an
attractive set of Tyroleans.
Jane- Shann’s rich magnolia satins
brushed shaded dahlias and gladioli as
she swept down the aisle of St. Mary’s,
West Perth, to keep her tryst with Cedric
Evans. Her weblike Limerick-net veil
wafted over the wide pleats of her V-
necked bodice and extended beyond the
edge of the pearly-pink satin train. The
trio of ’maids, Margaret Drummond and
Marjorie and Betty Shann, wrapped their
synchronising inches in white crinkle net,
puffed as to sleeves, frilled at the neck
of the tight-fitting bodices and falling into
tiers and tiers of frills on the skirts. At
the Karrakatta Club reception vice-regal
guests were, parked near Mrs. Shann’s
burgundy chiffon velvets. .
An Irish-lace veil made in Dublin a
century ago cascaded from Esme Oak-
ley’s blossom - and - tulle petal head-
mooring when she became Mrs. Keith
Robertson at the flower-massed altar of
Christ Church, Claremont. Her shim-
mering ivory satins combined drapes and
shirrs to give the Gibson Girl effect to
her high-sleeved gown, which undulated
softly to the curve of her oval inlet
train. Following her past the May-
flowered, tulle-bowed pews came Corrie
Cornish and Winnis Oakley. Their blush-
pink taffetas, rolled high at the neck in
front and swooping off into low points
at the back, were clouded with matching
shirred tulle capes. Gascoyne, the town
residence of the A. E. Oakleys in Pepper-
mint Grove, housed the 150 guests for
the toasting, with the bride’s mother in
braided black Chantilly lace.
Congratulations went to Justice
Dwyer’s lady for the floral decorations
at Lake Karrinyup Country Club’s dance.
Fronds of autumn foliage trailed the
walls of the sconces, huge bowls of tawny
chrysanthemums adorned tables and
pedestals, and the amber lights of wall-
brackets shone through boughs of warmly
tinted leaves and berries. Dr. and Mrs.
Roy Mitchell, she with a cluster of gar-
denias and a chilli or two over one ear,
sat at opposite ends of a long table of
dinner-dancers. Mary Burt’s enviable
lines were sheathed in cloth-of-silver, and
yards of softest chiffon went to make
Barbara Clarke’s floating amethyst gown.
Mrs. Bertram Nairn finished a backless
floral taffeta with a Medici collar, Margot
Law and Jean Smith were early on the
scene, and the Lee Steeres, Seeds and
Murrays were somewhat later arrivals.
To garner shekels for the Perth Hos-
pital Ex-trainees’ Association Mrs. A.
Robinson arranged an exhibition of an-
tiques, with her own beautiful specimens
as a foundation for the show. Chippen-
dale furniture, Duesbury china, Queen
Anne silver and Baxter prints had many
admirers, Miss I. Fallowfield’s old family
escutcheon caught the eye, Mrs. C. S.
Yeates’s patchwork quilt was a credit to
its long-ago stitcher, and a timepiece
made by James Hardy 125 years ago had
its share of praise.
Mrs. F. Bromilow, with red and white
flowers scattered on her black georgettes,
presided over the Myola Club’s annual
at-home. There were two one-act plays,
produced by secretary Mrs. A. J. Baird
(who also lifted contralto notes in har-
mony with Mrs. F. Cox), piano and
violin solos by Trixie Shepherd and Leo
Chase respectively, and songs from David
Lyle, with supper in the downstairs club-
room as a finale.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Visitors flocked to Adelaide for the
Coronation festivities and the race meet-
ings. Included in the gaieties of the
week were a race charity ball at the
Palais Royal to raise money for the can-
didate (Dr. A. V. Benson) who repre-
sents racing in a competition to raise
money for charity.
Over 300 were present at the coming-
out of Helen, only daughter of Mrs.
Magnus Wald, of North Adelaide. The
ball was at the home of the Irvine Walds,
and Helen’s mother and Mrs. Irvine Wald
were joint hostesses. The garden was
bright with colored lights, and danc-
ing was in a huge marquee, where the
guests were received. Supper was in an
adjoining marquee, where the tables
were arranged with bowls of roses. Fes-
toons of autumnal foliage with con-
cealed crimson electric bulbs helped the
brightness. Mrs. Magnus Wald’s black
chiffon velvet carried an autumnal
shoulder spray; Mrs. Irvine Wald wore
ice-blue satin beaute, with full skirt and
backless bodice, and Helen chose a dainty
frock of white net lace over white satin.
For some weeks the State. Baby Con-
test has had a place in the public eye.
For a time it looked as though twins were
to be the winners, but in the end an
infant nominated by the Telephone De-
partment came top. The proceedings con-
cluded with a party given by the Mothers
and Babies’ Health Association in the
Town Hall. The association benefited to
the extent of £4OOO. At the party Mrs.
Napier Birks was in command. Prize-
winning youngsters were brought on to
the platform when their proud mothers
went to collect prizes. An aboriginal
baby, Ronald, nominated by the Mareeba
Baby Hospital, received a set of clothes
and a pretty blue blanket with his initials
worked in the corner. Peter, another
small aboriginal, from the Konibba Mis-
sion, got a pink blanket, silver cups were
presented to the Zeitz twins, silver mugs
to the Coldwell duo and silver spoons to
the twins Helen and Lance Devitt. The
Ritchie lady attended to the prize-giving.
Over 300 guests were present at the
Waite Agricultural Research Institute for
the laying of the foundation stone of the
Ransom Mortlock Laboratory by the late
Ransom Mortlock’s mother, Mrs. W. F.
Mortlock. Prof. A. E. V. Richardson and
his wife entertained at ai
guests.
Over 100 members of the Voluntary
Aid Detachments, wearing their attractive
indoor uniforms of blue, with white veils,
attended a parade at G.H., where they
were inspected by his Ex., who was ac-
companied by Dr. S. R. Burston, Deputy-
Director of Medical Services, Dr.
H. H. E. Russell and' Miss G. Jude,
Assistant Controller of the V.A.D. After
the inspection his Ex. presented the Red
Cross certificates for home nursing, sani-
tation, hygiene and first aid.
TASMANIA.
For the dance given by the Faculty of
Engineering at the University a suspen-
sion bridge was rigged across the library.
Guests were invited to an inspection of
the physics lab. during the evening. The
Chancellor and Mrs. Stops were guests.
St. John’s Hospital tennis club ran a
dance at the Belvedere to raise funds
for building the new court. The Lord
Mayor and his lady patronised the show,
and the official party included the mem-
bers of a big committee.
The L. F. Piesses’ cocktail party at
Hadley’s was a gay affair. Daughter
Wanda’s fiance was in port, in H.M.A.S.
Yarra, and the party was a celebration
of their engagement. About 170 guests >
went along. Mrs. Piesse wore a smart
black tailor-made, with pinky-beige
blouse and black hat. Wanda’s floral
frock was patterned in black, green and
red, and her auburn head was sur-
mounted by a little black velvet cap.
Lieut.-Col. L. R. Thomas blew in for
a hurried “clean-up” visit to 7ZL before
settling to his new job in Adelaide, and
was given a sherry party by the 7ZL
people. The party also served as a wel-
come to his successor, C. C. Wicks, and
Mrs. Wicks.
Mrs. Fitzgerald stayed behind in the
Speck when the Fleet went to Maoriland,
and only the other day left to rejoin her
husband in Sydney. She said good-bye
to her many Hobart friends with cock-
tails at her flat.
The Hobart Symphony Orchestra, Dr.
Arundel Orchard wielding the baton,
gave a very good concert at the Town
Hall, with a programme that included
the first Hobart performance of Delius’s
“On Hearing the First Cuckoo in
Spring.” The official party included
Nicholls, C.J., and his lady, the Lady
Mayoress and the Ellis Coxes.
Australian singer Essie Ackland was
in good form at the Mayoral reception
in her honor in the Town Hall, and was
delighted to meet there her old teacher,
Dr. Arundel Orchard.
Gwen Fitzgerald, only girl-chick of
the Tom Fitzgeralds, and Mervyn
Rouse, son of the E. J. Rouses, Oak-
worth, Yorkshire, announce their
engagement.
Molly Hoskins, daughter of Dr. and
Mrs. A. T. Hoskins, Longford, and
Gordon Gibson, Hobart, have joined the
ranks of the newly-engaged.


9
m
\
:
Hi
i
■
■
a
wmmmm
m
An important chapter in ocean travel has been
written by the Canadian-Australasian Line (Inc. in Canada). Since
1893 this trans-Pacific service has been a link between Australia and
Canada.
Calls are mane at
AUCKLAND. N.Z.; SUVA, FIJI; HONOLULU, T.H.; VICTORIA, 8.C.;
and VANCOUVER.
Travel by this picturesque route to Europe!
Full particulars from,:—
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., LTD. WnTJ
247 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
The Long White Cloud
Canute in Transport
Road goods services competing with
Maoriland railways for distances over 30
miles are to be acquired by the Savage
Government. A year ago, the Govern-
ment hinted that it had not overlooked
the practicability of taking over air ser-
vices, the one medium it now requires to
convert internal transport into a com-
plete State monopoly.
Attempts to “co-ordinate” Australian
transport systems have not won bouquets
for any of the Governments concerned.
In Maoriland, where distances are much
shorter, the Labor people intend gping
much further ; where continuance is justi-
fied, Transport Minister Semple says the
M.L. Government will operate its own
road services. The railway-extension
policy, he also explains, was born of
Labor’s determination to save some assets
from the £7,000,000 muddle of eight
rusty and unfinished lines left by the
previous Government.
One danger of a transport monopoly
held by a Government with an interest-
hungry £65,000,000 sunk in railways is
that it will shy at the cost of experiment-
ing with progressive improvements
hitherto pioneered by private enterprise.
And already the country is accustomed
to more service and satisfaction from
competitive private hauliers than from
a railway department characterised in the
past by the most casual recognition of
interests and requirements.
Unless the “development essential to
the progress of the country,” as men-
tioned by Minister Semple, is to be
spirited out of sight by the change-over,
he will have to lift the efficiency of co-
ordinated services to the level Maoriland
trade and industry have learned to expect
from private transport. And there is still
a chance that posterity will regard
him as the Canute who brandished fixed
railway lines before the flexible tide of
modern road services.
“Kiwit”: Another good aviation year
has been completed in Maoriland by
Cook Strait Airways, on the Wellington-
Blenheim-Nelson service between the
North and South Islands. More than
14,000 passengers and 40,0001 b. of mail
and freight were carried by the com-
pany’s machines. The service has recently
been extended to Westland, but results
have been disappointing; agents antici-
pate. more traffic when the Westport
’drome is ready to receive mail ’planes.
The year’s safe operation, of Cook Strait
machines should help dispel much of the
dislike harbored by visiting pilots for
hilly Wellington’s flying conditions.
* % * rjt
"Inanga”: An earthquake saved
Napier from its trams, and Napier to-
day is a better-built town than ever it
was—which should convince Australian
tram- and slum-haters that there are
more enduring agonies than isolated
’quakes. In fact, latter wouldn’t be so
terrible if they could be accurately pre-
dicted and rigidly confined. But there is
a “coincidence” story attached to the
1931 vanquishing of Napier trams. Just
before the ’quake one driver was guiding
his monster into town, and when the
shock occurred he wisely deserted it in
company with his conductor and pas-
sengers. When Napier later decided to
do without its anachronisms, this tram-
driver got himself a job as caretaker of
a motor camp. The other day he took
delivery of a number of obsolete tram
bodies for use as motorists’ huts. Among
them was the tram he deserted that 1931
morning. He has turned it into his camp
office.
* * s!= *
Waitot”: Newspapers from across
the Tasman say a questionnaire submitted
recently at a Stratford school revealed a
general “dislike of milk among the chil-
dren,” and the same par. remarks
on the similar aversion to milk in Eng-
lish schools. If the Stratford mentioned
is Maoriland’s Taranaki town the children
a.re not just being more English than
the English. Nor would it be fair to
regard the questionnaire as an indication
of tastes in other Maoriland schools.
Stratford is surrounded by the dairy
farms that have made it; Central
Taranaki roads are crowded every morn-
ing with milk-wagons converging on fac-
tories ; and the kids see so much mud,
rain and milk, chase so many cows and
feed such hundreds of calves that lots of
them take tea without milk for the rest
of their lives. Offering them the city
luxury of milk drinks could be like pre-
senting a chocolate-factory girl with a
handsome box of chocs. —dangerous.
* * * *
“D.N.”: High up in the mountains
separating Canterbury from Westland
Maoriland has an obelisk in memory
of Arthur Dudley Dobson, an early sur-
veyor who discovered the first pass
through the Southern Alps and blazed
other South Island trails still followed by
modern traffic. It was in March, 1864,
when Dobson rode up the Waimakariri
River and penetrated Arthur’s Pass as far
"Says We're spoiling his diving boys — why, I haven't even seen them!"
as the steep drop into Otira. When gold
was discovered in the west, some Christ-
church businessmen offered £2OO for
anyone finding a more suitable pass, but
Dobson’s brother, after working through
miles of rough country, reported that
“Arthur’s” pass was the most suitable for
a direct road to the West Coast. The
name stuck. Two sons of Arthur Dobson
were present when the 30ft. obelisk, with
its bronze tablet, was recently unveiled
in the Alps above the two provinces.
* * * *
“Mak”: Maori radio announcers are
being given chances by the Government-
owned commercial broadcasting chain,
the second station of which has just
been opened in Wellington. Kingi
Tahiwi, a well-known interpreter and
native advisory board officer, has landed
the southern job ; he is no novice at the
microphone, having been associated with
numerous radio productions in the last
few years. Australia will remember
Tahiwi as the manager of the Maori
Rugby Union Team which toured the
eastern States in 1935 under the captaincy
of George Nepia. Possessor of a beauti-
fully modulated voice, Tahiwi is a fluent
speaker, and at a Melbourne Town Hall
reception Lord Mayor Wales told him he
was easier to listen to than most of Mel-
bourne’s councillors. Lord Mayor Wales
was right.
* * * *
“Lachie”: Every few days now some
careless Maorilander is reported to have
handed over a new £5O-note in mistake
for the common half-quid it resembles.
The 50 is invariably tendered to pay for
some trifle; the counter-jumper doesn’t
notice it is a 50, and returns what should
be left of a lOs.-note. The horrified cus-
tomer discovers the error later in the day
and telephones—but a frantic chase
through the till reveals no sign of the
larger note, which is sadly concluded to
have gone back across the counter as
change for some more fortunate cus-
tomer. There has been one instance
in which the 50-quid act evidently did
happen ; a young woman alleged to have
received the big note among her change
was actually charged with having “con-
verted it to her own use.” But if many
of the reported “errors” are dinkum,
Maorilanders must be carrying bigger
notes more carelessly than they did the
20-odd years I lived there. I never saw
one.
sje * * *
“Korero”: The Bureau of Industry
created under Maoriland’s Industrial
Efficiency Act (B. 5/5/’37) has drawn
the fire of the Associated Chambers of
Commerce with its plan for reorganising
the flax industry. “The flax industry is
decadent because those engaged in it
have found it to be uneconomic,” says
the criticism, which accuses the bureau
of attempting to prop up an industry
that can’t meet the competition of the
sisal and manilla produced in countries
where labor costs are but a fraction of
those in Maoriland. Actually, the Savage
Government proposes to “guarantee” £26
a ton for Maoriland hemp at present
earning manufacturers about £25 10s.—
a high price compared with the depres-
sion return of £lO a ton. The C. of C.
criticism says it looks like propping up an
uneconomic industry; but Prime Minister
Savage makes no secret in London of
his Government’s intention to give
Maoriland its “own money system based
on our own production” and of Labor’s
determination to see that Maoriland is
not “harnessed to the chariot wheels of
other countries.” If the cableman is right,
P.M. Savage is adopting words previously
used in Maoriland and Australia by
Douglas Credit ranters.
* ❖ %
“Ticker”: Minister of Internal Affairs
Parry is of opinion that Maoriland chil-
dren should receive more instruction
about their inner organs to help them
acquire better knowledge of improving
their physical make-up, and that mental
fitness should be developed along with
physique. It is a medical truism that
the more laymen learn about their in-
sides the more they become mentally
uneasy and fearful of symptoms invari-
ably imaginary. Acquaintance with
dozens of Australian and Maoriland
medical students has convinced me that
they pass through a stage when they are
worse than anybody in imagining they
are ill; they soon grow out of these
fancies when they begin workings For
a whole year I suffered a Maoriland
student, now a healthy and successful
doctor, who in successive months con-
vinced himself he had everything from
t.b. to obscure forms of paralysis. I
began to get them myself—he diagnosed
with shocking clarity—but found that
beer inevitably restored us both to
vociferous health. And if Minister
Parry doesn’t favor the remedy he
shouldn’t encourage general inside in-
trospection.


Amplion
n EKIEMOTOR
THE STANDARD
"B" ELIMINATOR
MODEL 180 GENEMOTOR.
INPUT: OUTPUT:
6v. 2.2 amps. 180 v. 30ma.
PRICE, £6/10/-.
Also available for public address ampli-
fiers, transmitters, etc., with outputs
ranging up to 500 volts 150 ma.
MODEL X! FILTER.
For use with Model 180 Genemotor.
PRICE, 30/-.
Write for Bulletin No. 42.
AMPLION (A/SIA), Limited
6* CLARENCE STREET. SYDNEY
RADIQKES
VIBRATOR
Radiokes PERFECTED Vibrator—easy to inrtal-
marvellously economical —100% satisfactory. Sare*
vou money on batteries. Suitable for ANY batter?
get. £6/6/-. Voltage Divider Unit, 15/-*
Write to RadiokeSs, Ltd., Sydney, tor free illustrated
literature NOW,
RADIO NEWS.
Inyerse Feedback A.C.
Superhet.
Though not exactly a new develop-
ment overseas, the principle of inverse
feedback has been only recently applied
in Australia. Now several manufac-
turers are producing dual-wave receivers
incorporating the idea, and the result is
a remarkable degree of fidelity from a
single audio pentode output valve. In
fact, it is difficult to determine without
examination that the receiver is not
equipped with a more elaborate audio
channel, savoring of push-pull in some
form or other.
Along these lines the Philips 1937
receivers made a convincing “audio-
scopic” debut, and the A.W. Valve Co.
has published circuit details of a small
superhet using the inverse feedback prin-
ciple in “Radiotronics,” No. 74. The
diagram from that publication is repro-
duced here for the benefit of readers
accustomed to building the average kit
form of A.C. super. The necessary
valves are marked, and it will be seen
that the circuit also includes a “magic
eye” tuning indicator valve, without
which modern A.C. receivers are incom-
plete. Of course, a single class-A power
triode of the 2A3 type can provide
almost perfect reproduction, but it is
necessary to use a higher transformer
voltage, owing to the greater grid-bias
voltage. Improved filtering is aso
needed.
A pentode or beam tetrode valve (6L6
type) combines the advantages of low-
bias voltage and high-plate efficiency,
and is preferable, since it does dot call
lor more filtering than that provided by
a speaker field coil used as a choke. A
serious disadvantage is that excessive
distortion can be produced when feeding
a loudspeaker. This distortion some-
. • , a
times exceeds 30 p.c. By introducing in-
verse feedback a pentode or beam
tetrode can be used with a very marked
improvement m quality without any
appreciable increase in cost.
The circuit shows an application using
resistance coupling. The audio harmonic
distortion is negligible, and the damping
on the loudspeaker gives only a rela-
tively small mismatch. In this circuit
the screens of the 6A7 and 687 s should
be adjusted to 100 volts, the anode-grid
of the 6A7 to 200 volts, and the target
of the 6G5 to 250 volts. It is well worth
constructional trial.
D. B. K.
What's What in Radio.
The old home of 2LO London, the
pioneer British broadcasting station,
Marconi House, has been taken over by
the Air Ministry. In this building in the
Strand, where the transmitter, studio and
executive offices of the early 8.8. C. were
located, the first experimental concerts
were given in 1922. The offices and
studios were moved to Savoy Hill in
1923, though the old transmitter re-
mained at Marconi House until 1925. The
building will be used as an annexe to
Adastral House, the Air Ministry H.Q.,
a few yards away.
* * # #
A new frequency—GST on 21.55mc.
(13.92m.)—has been notified for use by
the 8.8. C. for the Empire transmitters at
Daventry. Although it is not proposed
to operate on that frequency immediately,
it may be used from time to time during
the Southern Flemisphere winter. The
identification-word of the callsign GST
will be “Transmitter.” As listeners to
Daventry are aware, the letters “GS” are
common to all 16 callsigns associated with
the B.B.CVs Empire service, the final
letters of the callsign being the differen-
tiating factor. To avoid confusion in the
announcements of the callsigns, an iden-
tification word has been allotted to each
final letter. The identifications at present
in use are: — j
A for aerial; B, broadcasting; C, cor-
poration; D, Daventry; E, Empire; F,
fortune; G, greeting; H, home; I; Ireland;
J, justice; K, King; L, liberty; O, ocean;
P, progress; T, transmitter.
* * * *
Sydney has a blind amateur radio
transmitter, Frank Bridgewater (VK2ZO).
His apparatus was built for him by
other amateurs, and he operates his sta-
tion with a remarkable sense of many
essential controls. On similar lines ama-
teurs in England are constructing a trans-
mitter for a blind colleague who has
recently obtained a transmitting license
in Brighton.
V * *
Discussing “ultra-short waves for local
broadcasting” in the pages of “Wireless
World” (England), a writer expresses the
opinion that in 10 years’ time the bulk
of local broadcasting will be done on
wave-lengths between five and 10 metres.
The 8.8. C. is now about to start ultra-
short-wave broadcasting as a regular ser-
vice, the “sound” side of the television
service having demonstrated the high-
fidelity potentialities of ultra-shorts.
* * * *
Recently the Norwegian police took
action against a 21-year-old radio ama-
teur for operating a transmitter without
a license. He has now been charged
with espionage, it being alleged that,
being in the pay of a foreign Power, he
transmitted messages in code to aircraft
passing over northern Norway during the
night.
* * * *
Loud-speaking amplification equip-
ment made by A.W.A. for use indepen-
dently and also in conjunction with
mobile radio telegraphic outfits will
shortly be in use in the training of the
Australian military forces.
Radio Comment.
“D.C.N. Jnr.”: The price of television
receivers would not be exorbitant even
at £l2O. In the early days of broadcast-
ing £6O to £l2O was paid for crude radio
receivers which people maintained at con-
siderable expense for battery and valve
replacements. Maintenance of a tele-
vision receiver would not be so costly,
as it is powered straight from the A.C.
mains, and most modern valves will last
for years. Perhaps ultra-short-wave con-
verters could be fitted to many good
existing sets, thus lowering considerably
the cost of the sound side. Up to £75 is
often paid nowadays for movie projec-
tors that show only silent films, and an-
other £2O is necessary for the camera to
take the films, which are developed at
a cost of about £1 7s. per 100 ft. Even
during the depression a well-known all-
wave radio-gramophone was retailed at
£175, and, despite this price, sold very
well. Up to £lOO for a television receiver
in Australia could therefore hardly be
considered a deterrent to buyers.
* * * *
“Cluny”: Most old hands remember
being able, 10 or 12 years ago, to pull
in half the world on a single rickety valve,
as “D.8.K.” (B. 14/4/’37) re-
marks, but the same thing held
good for multiple-valve jobs,
even if the rudimentary nature
of the speakers made occa-
sional resort to earphones
necessary. Design in those
days went flat out after sensi-
tivity and distance. There
were, comparatively speaking,
no stations to interfere. With
the coming of lOk.c. channels
and 24 - hour broadcasting,
here and abroad, DX went to
the dogs for those who stuck
to the old-fashioned custom of
having a bit of sleep at night,
and the radio world went
selectivity-mad from the day
superhets ousted T.R.F. With
a single-valver of antique de-
sign it is still possible to
haul in incredible DX in the wee sma’
hours, but there is too much jambing
to do so in comfort and still make log
entries in reasonable quantity. I am in-
clined to discard the absorption theory,
and explain the change, for the worse by
an unavoidable substitution of selectivity
for sensitivity, plus the circumstance that
old-timers are in danger of becoming
old buffers convinced that we shall never
again get the results we used to get in
the good old days.
H= * * *
“Videx”: One of the main difficulties
in cathode-ray tube television —that of
getting enough light for the screen —has
now been overcome. That the trouble
occurred is not surprising in view of the
cause of it. The flying spot of light
which builds up the receiver and causes
the electric current to vary in sympathy
with the detail of the picture in the trans-
mitter rests on any point for not more
than one half-millionth of a second. That
is moving!
Television as a Public
Entertainment.
Some people say television is “just
round the corner” ; others say it is 10
years distant. Though Australia is not
in the same position as the U.S.A., the
comments of an American radio publi-
cation, “Radio World,” on the prob-
lems involved in commercial television
are of interest.
Caution is exercised by those respon-
sibly connected with television (says the
journal) because it would be disastrous
if the public were offered something
tiring. Only those who have no author-
ity to speak risk any prophecy as to
when television will be offered to the
public.
Probably a great many persons sup-
pose that powerful radio corporations
have conspired to postpone public tele-
vision so as not to interfere with the
present vast sale of sound receivers, and
until massive storehouses of radio parts
are depleted. The real reason why we do
not have commercial television to-day
is that the radio corporations do not
want to go broke. .
Suppose a radio corporation intro-
duced a television receiver, say, at
$350. The buyer would expect that tele-
vision programmes would be transmitted,
and that the reception would hold one’s
delighted attention for an hour or more.
That would be a reasonable expectation,
yet it cannot now be quite fulfilled. Pro-
grammes will have to be more than
merely experimental and informally dis-
jointed. To make the programmes out-
standing, it is necessary to have them pre-
pared and served up by persons of out-
standing ability, and therefore, especially
with scenic effects, the programme cost
will be enormous. Such a programme
lasting an hour might cost $50,000.
Whose $50,000?
For bright pictures, with abundance of
detail, transmission on high radio fre-
quencies is required. The reliable pene-
tration range of these frequencies is
limited to much less than 50 miles. So
a television programme could not be
disseminated over a wide enough area
to serve a vast audience. These slower
pulses are the cargo of pictures trans-
ported by the carrier. A means has been
found to conduct the picture pulses by
transmission line, particularly a wire
insMe a grounded cable, permitting the
conducting of frequencies that have great
width of variation. Some of this co-
axial cable has been laid as part of the
field work following most encouraging
results in the laboratory. When some
distance-traversing conductor actually is
installed for carrying the television pulses
then chain stations may resort to tele-
vision just as readily as they do now to
sound, though certainly not so non-
chalantly for a while. Each station will
use its own carrier, while the same cargo
of shared picture pulses will be mixed
with the individual carriers. The short
range of the radio-frequency transmis-
sion then will not matter. So receivers
and stations go together. You have
neither or both. The stations must have
programmes and channels and there must
be an economic basis for everything.
Long Speaker Leads.
When it is necessary to place a speaker
some distance away from either receiver
or amplifier, field wiring, sufficiently in-
sulated, is adequate. In all but special
circuits where the bias system is con-
nected to the field windings, length of
field wires matters little if resistance is
kept low.
Voice wires demand special attention.
Over relatively short distances and using
a stable design there is nothing practi-
cal against wires not longer than 20ft.
between plate of output tube and pri-
mary of speaker transformer.
The impedance of voice coils varies
over a great range, and may be as low
as 1.8 ohms or as high as 16 ohms. For
distances up to 100 ft. the speaker trans-
former should be mounted close to or
on the chassis and the leads run from
the secondary to the voice coil of the
speaker. Care should be exercised in the
choice of a line. Bad mismatching will
result if the impedance of the line itself
assumes a considerable figure. Nothing
lighter than 7-22 should be used for low-
impedance lines unless special compen-
sation is introduced to correct the effect
of the extra impedance. If impedance
of voice coil is of such a low order that
a long line is too bulky or otherwise
impossible, a transformer to match the
output of the amplifier to a 500-ohm line
should be mounted on the chassis and
another matching the 500-ohm line to
the voice coil placed close to the speaker.
The 500-ohm line need not be nearly as
heavy as the 16-ohm one; consequently,
the outfit becomes more flexible. For
average work on a basis of 500 ohms,
lead-sheathed twin 22 is suitable ; where
long distances have to be covered wire
may be twin 18, similarly shielded. Lead
or other metallic covering used should
be earthed, but both sides of the line
should be kept above earth potential. If
it is desired to keep the line at earth
potential the 500-ohm windings on the
transformers should be centre-tapped
and these points earthed.
R. H. A.
Practical Hints.
When drilling aluminium it is possible
g Q astray even when the spot to be
drilled has been punched. If the drill u


Radio Constructors.
A limited number of issues
of “Australian Radio News”
(formerly published by “The Bulle-
tin”) is available at “The Bulletin”
office. 1933 and 1934 issues con-
tain a large amount of useful short-
wave and broadcast constructional
articles. Price 3d. per copy. Post-
age included.
VAT 69
LIQUEUR SCOTCH WHISKY
“Vat 69” has the mellowness of age and the unvarying
character of a true Scotch Whisky, for it is blended and
matured in Scotland by William Sanderson & Son Ltd., Leith
famous distillers since 1863.
Discriminating hosts serve “Vat 69”.
“Vat 69” in Dump Bottles, Half Bottles, and Flasks. vs 57
Distributors: John Woods and Co., Ltd., 388 Sussex Street, Sydney.
Sub Agents: Pitt, Son & Badgery, Ltd., 4 O'Connell Street, Sydney.
not held upright the punch-mark becomes
distended and the finished hole is not in
place. If the reflection of the drill is
watched in the metal surface and the tool
so held that the drill and its reflection
appear in a straight “wandering
will not occur.
Rattles in dynamic speakers are not
always caused by the outside of the voice
coil touching the housing. A recent case
of rattle was found to be due to a small
“dog ear” at one point in the paper
lining of the voice-coil former. Gentle
rubbing with very fine glasspaper soon
smoothed away this obstruction and put
matters right. In such a case, where the
offending obstruction is small, it is better
to remove it than to attempt to stick it
down, since the latter method is likely
to be impermanent; the adhesive, too,
may form blobs and encroach on the
valuable space within the air gap.
If a separate filament winding is used
to operate dial lamps on a s.-w. set a
c.t. resistor should be provided, as on
the windings that feed valves. Placing
transformer- to-lamp wiring at earth
potential in this way prevents it from
contributing to receiver-hum level.
VK6WZ.
Philips Short-wave Pro-
grammes from Holland.
May 11: Wave-length 31.28 m to
6 a.m.: Experimental programme. Special
broadcast for South Africa. Send reports
to P.C.J. Studio, Hilversum, Holland.
May 12-13: 19.71m.—11 p.m. to 2
a.m.: Experimental programme. Special
broadcast for Asia. Send reports to
P.C.J. Studio, Hilversum. 10 a.m. to
I p.m., May 13, wave-length 31.28 m.;
II p.m., May 13, to 12.30 a.m., May 14,
16.88 m,
May 16, 16.88 m a.m. to 11 a.m.:
Special broadcast for Asia. Music. Poli-
tical talk by Paul de Waart. Mission
news. Journal.
May 18, 19.71. —7.30 p.m. to 9 p.m.:
Experimental programme. Special broad-
cast for Australia and M.L. Reports to
P.C.J. Studio, Hilversum, Holland.
May 19-20, 19.71m.—11 p.m. to 2
a.m.: Experimental programme. Special
broadcast lor Asia. Send reports to
P.C.J. Studio, Hilversum. May 20, 10
a.m. to 1 p.m., wave-length 31.28 m. ; May
20, 11 p.m. to 2 a.m., May 21, 16.88m.'
Amateur Chatter.
Overseas radio publications are as
essential to the radio amateur as to the
professional radio engineer. Among the
more important are Jones’ Radio Hand-
book and The Radio Amateur’s Hand-
book from U.S.A. There are also sub-
sidiaries of these covering station opera-
tion, radiotelephony and ultra-shorts.
The oldest publication of all, deservedly
popular, is “QST.” Amateur radio was
virtually cradled in its pages, starting in
1917. “Radio,” also a monthly, is an
excellent magazine for amateurs. One
not seen on the bookstalls is “T. and R.
Bulletin,” published by the Radio Society
of Great Britain. Membership in the
R.S.G.B. includes the mag. mailed
monthly, and it is full of good technical
matter. Also from England comes
Television and Short-wave World,” of
which GSZJ is short-wave editor. Ameri-
can magazines with plenty of amateur
material are “Television and Short-
wave,” “All-wave Radio” and “Radio
News.”
The second annual W.I.A. Exhibition
opened in Sydney with a flourish. E. T.
Fisk’s message from London was particu-
larly well received. The amateur ex-
hibits this year were noteworthy for their
excellent workmanship and design, con-
structors having taken advantage of the
more attractive and advanced com-
ponents that are finding their way on to
the market. The display on the club
stalls and in the competitive sections
should have made manufacturers realise
the rapidly growing market for amateur
apparatus. It is undoubtedly due to the
increasing use of telephony that this sec-
tion of the radio industry, overseas and
in Australia, is receiving an impetus.
Remarkably effective radio-telephone
transmitters can be designed to-day with
a small number of valves, and an unpre-
tentious outfit can be designed thus for
multi-band operation. Six years ago,
even a C.W. transmitter for crystal opera-
tion at 20 metres was a matter for much
scheming with circuit and valve arrange-
ments. The exhibition will be discussed
in detail later.
Old Sol having broken out in a facial
rash, his spots have caused havoc
for a week or so in long-distance short-
wave communication. Commercial ser-
vices have reported a complete black-
out at times, and amateurs working on
20-metre ’phone have had the greatest
difficulty in raising and holding overseas
stations. When sunspot activity is great,
and the short waves suffer, it is gener-
ally found that the ultra-shorts exhibit
DX tendencies. Unfortunately little
opportunity has existed for observations
in the Sydney district on five metres dur-
ing this sunspot activity, owing to work
in connection with the exhibition. It will
be interesting to note what has been
happening overseas.
During the early morning of 3/5/’37,
several Englishmen were heard very
strongly on 20-metre ’phone, but repeated
calls went unanswered. It appears that a
good contact with England during early
morning in eastern Australia is now
rare; a few years ago this was the ac-
cepted time at which to secure contact.
The explanation is that when it is even-
ing there Europe is a maze of signals of
all kinds, American ’phones adding to
the melee. It stands to reason that the
average VK signal will have a hard job
to punch even a small hole in the welter.
Australian contact with Europe is there-
fore better at about 5 p.m. E.S.T., but it
must be remembered that British summer
time is now in operation. When it is 5
p.m. in Sydney, it is 8 a.m. in London.
By the time most VKs get home from
business, the Gs have caught the morn-
ing train to the office. At the week-end,
of course, the QRM is located at this
end of the contact.
The writer and VK2EM have com-
pleted a new super-regenerative re-
ceiver for 2\, 5 and 10 metres. It
uses the new 956 “acorn” as T.R.F.
amplifier, 6K7 as detector, 76 as inter-
ruptor and 41 as audio. On five metres
the gain is very satisfactory, and the
selectivity is materially improved by the
T.R.F. stage. This receiver will be de-
scribed in a future issue.
VK2NO.
All Round the Dial.
“Matt”: 4BC Brisbane, had a clevet
gadget going recently. When a person
approached the window a cathode-ray
tube went into convulsions. A P.E. cell, of
course, kicked it off. Another stunt was
to get someone to point at the name-
plate of the B.C. station one wanted to
hear, whereupon a set immediately
changed its tuning. Capacity, of course,
worked relays for that one.
* * * *
Paul Ulanowsky, Lotte. Lehmann’s
accompanist, belongs to Vienna. He got
his musical training at the Vienna Con-
servatorium, and later became a member
of the Philharmonic Orchestra and
played under Toscanini and famous visit-
ing conductors. In addition, he broad-
cast in Vienna, did a great deal of ac-
companying and took part in chamber
music. Then he went to London with
the Greek-American flautist Lambros
Demetrios Callimahos, and also accom-
panied him on his European tour. Ulan-
owsky has also accompanied for the
’cellist Piatigorsky. He was engaged
last year for an American tour by Enid
Szantho, the Hungarian-Irish contralto.
Lotte Lehmann he*rd him in New York,
and wac au impressed that she engaged
him for her Australian tour.
* * * *
“Dial-spinner”: Berlin short-wave
broadcasters now play a signature tune
to wind up programmes. It is a re-
corded melody played on a nightwatch-
man’s horn of a type used in mediaeval
times, and is followed by the German
National Anthem.
* * * *
To meet the requirements of N. S.
Wales and Vic. listeners who take their
programmes from 2CO, the A.B.C. has
commenced relaying early morning news
from both States to that station. Sydney
is relaying news to 2CO between 6.45
and 6.50 a.m. and Melbourne provides
the session between 8 and 8.5 a.m. In
each of the early morning sessions 2CO
receives the full service of overseas news.
R.F. Choke Formers.
Home-constructors and other amateurs
often find it worth while to wind their
own r.f. chokes for transmitters or
receivers. Easiest to wind and most
generally used are those made up on
small formers, solenoid style. When
dowel-rod is scarce, excellent formers
can be made from the centres of wire-
reels after the ends have been cut away.
Glass, of course, is much sought after,
and many junk boxes contain potential
glass formers in the shape of burnt-out
wire-wound resistors and so on. Certain
dyes are. packed in neat little glass tubes
usually about diameter by 2in.
or so long. These tubes, when fitted with
simple end clips
of tin or brass,
make fine for-
mers.
Cardboard, too,
can be use d,
although it is ad-
visable to guard
against moisture
by thoroughly im -
pregnating the
tubing, inside and
out, with a coat
or two of thin
shellac. For con-
nections, spare
voltage divider clips (which seem to
collect in almost every junk cupboard)
may be utilised to give the finished item
sound contact plus neat appearance.
R.H.A.
The Question Box.
Queries must be written legibly, and
name and complete address, including
State, must be included. A nom de
plume is insufficient.
(1) I have a five-valve set that gives excellent
results. It is fitted with a six-volt battery, but
the plate supply to date has been drawn from
a country town’s electric-light supply, which is,
/ believe, 240 volts. In order to use the set
where no electric supply is available, I am
desirous of fitting B batteries. What alterations
will be necessary ? (2) Can most of the
present parts be utilised in conversion into an
ordinary battery set or for operation from a
six-volt accumulator and vibrator? —540.
(1) As you give no circuit details, it is as-
sumed that the town supply is D.C. In that
case no great alteration would be necessary.
The filter choke and condensers can be dis-
connected or left in place. (2) The filter ar-
rangement could be used in conjunction with
a vibrator system. The Radiokes vibrator unit
would be suitable. No alterations will be neces-
sary to the receiver itself for either battery or
vibrator-plate supply, and all present parts
can be utilised.
*** ■ *
Name of a book on wireless, dealing with
construction and detailed use of parts, suit-
able for a novice? —538.
The Book of Practical Radio, by John Scott-
Taggart (Angus and Robertson, Sydney).
(1) Would it be detrimental to a five-valve
An zone receiver if a loudspeaker were con-
nected from a distance of about 100 ft.? (2)
Would the tone suffer? (3) What extra load
would be placed on the batteries?— s39.
(1) and (2) No. (3) Very little.
* * * -j.
Layout of a two-valve amplifier to operate
from batteries for the electrical reproduction of
records ? —537.
The diagram is of a class-B battery amplifier.
The valves can be types 30 and 19 respectively.
suitable, input transformer is the Airzone
made for this purpose, or the Gladstone (Noyes
Bros., Sydney). The potentiometer used for
volume control across the pickup is of 500,000
ohms value, and condensers “A” are mica
types .OOlmfd. Up to nine volts negative
bias can be used on the 30 driver valve. An
Amplion or Rola perrnag. speaker fitted with a
transformer for the 19 valve is suggested.
* * * *
1 am a crystal-set listener, and, in order to
satisfy the needs of a partly-deaf member of
the family household, would appreciate a dia-
gram showing how to connect a valve ampli-
fier and speaker to give more volume. My
crystal set is simple, having only a large tapped
coil, cat's-whisker, crystal and headphones. —
534.
A diagram is given. Use an audio trans-
former of three-to-one ratio. These can be
picked up cheaply second-hand. The valve can
be a Radioiron 31, with about eight volts nega-
tive grid bias from a nine-volt C battery and
135 volts of light-duty B battery. A magnetic
speaker can be used. Several types can be
obtained from second-hand stores, such as
Radio Supply Stores, Royal Arcade, Sydney.
The filament rheostat shown in the diagram
will not be necessary if a two-volt accumulator
is used. The fixed condenser across the primary
of the audio transformer can be .002mfd.


COST OF VITA-LICK
RECOUPED
A HUNDRED-FOLD.
Mr. John D. Hynes, “Riverton,”
Tenterfield, writes, 27) 11 /’ 36:
“I wish to express my appre-
ciation of the whole Vita-Lick
organisation, of the free ser-
vices rendered and advices
given, and the good results I
have achieved by taking notice
of same, and I will add that
what it has cost me in lick and
drenches I have been recouped
a hundred-fold by the results
obtained since.”
YOUNG STOCK.
“Old Friend”: Of course I pay atten-
tion to my young stock. It’s my invest-
ment for future production, isn’t it?
There’s no need to tell me about a
balanced ration, I’m giving my growing
stock Tri-cal-os Bone Flour, and that is
balancing the mineral ration for them.
They’ve got strong bones and teeth, sup-
pleness and vitality, and generally good
all-round condition. In fact, I’d back
mine against yours without seeing them
—what are you using?- By the way, Tri-
cal-os is the most economical mineral
supplement I know of. I wrote to Davis
Gelatine (Australia). Pty.",. Ltd., G.P.O.
Box 35835, Sydney, for information.
Old Farmer.
f
df
d
fd
fd
PASTURE SEEDS.
Write to Hawthorne Bros. Pty., Ltd., Keraiig,
Vic.,-for 'price-list*oftWifnmera and-Cert. Perr. Ryes,
Sub. Clovers-early and. late, all other seeds, and
save 7*%' to 10%. We' pay freight.
The Commonwealth General
Assurance Corporation Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE: Australia House,
Wyn.vard Square, Sydney.
BRANCHES' at : Newcastle and Lismore.
VICTORIA: 475 Collihsi Street, Melbourne,
. r . . . and at , Geelong.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Epworth Buildings,
■ - - Adelaide.'
A modern, progressive and purely Aus-
tralian Corporation, transacting all
classes of Life Assurance, including:
Eight Option, Cash Bonus, Probate,
Non-Profit, Annuities, Personal Accident
and Sickness, etc.
WHY BUY BONUSES?
‘MAXIMUM ASSURANCE AT
MINIMUM COST”
Write for full particulars to
A. L. HARRIS, General Manager,
Box 140 CC, G.F.0., SYDNEY.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
THE STUFF TO GIVE'EM
MEGGITTS LINSEED MEAL.
Picking Mixed Crossbred Pieces.
“C.V.S.”: Shedhands should not be
unduly bustled, but, though there should
be sufficient piece-pickers to do the job
well, it is questionable how far it pays to
go in picking crossbred pieces.
The owner of a very mixed crossbred
clip I classed a few years ago refused to
employ piece-pickers. The rollers re-
moved the stain and threw the breech
pieces into one bin and the necks into
another, which was the only attempt
made at selection, apart from throwing
extra-coarse necks into the breech pieces.
The pieces sold well, and the wool ex-
perts were doubtful whether it would
have proved payable to pick them. The
ordinary method of picking—that of re-
moving the stain and fribs from the
brighter wool —would leave the top line
very mixed in quality, and it would be
impossible to find pickers capable of sort-
ing to counts, even if they had the time.
The presence of fribs in the wool
would not affect its sale, for buyers can
estimate the yield of fribby crossbred
pieces quite accurately, as evinced by the
fact that many repackers, when handling
this type of wool, sort for quality alone,
disregarding sweaty ends, and sell their
lines on a guaranteed yield.
Mixed crossbred pieces are often
bought at auction by dealers buying for
order, who sort it thoroughly. These
dealers should not be confused with the
purely speculative buyer. In many such
sorting shops, sorters work at the rate of
a bale a day, dividing it into a dozen or
more lines. Though I believe it is desir-
able to advance all work as far as pos-
sible in the shed, such elaborate sorting
could obviously not be carried out by
the piece-pickers.
Where crossbred pieces show no great
variation, picking should be carried out
in the normal manner, throwing out the
hairy breeches.
Longtails v. Fly.
“Sheepo”: “Warramulla” (B. 7/4/’37),
in his contention that the odd longtail in
a mob is seldom if ever blown about the
hindquarters, raises a question that needs
serious consideration. I’ve reared scores
of poddies—tails untouched —and have
yet to see one struck about the hind-
quarters by flies.
Anyway, what’s the advantage of dock-
ing tails? A few ounces of wool are lost
in every sheep through the procedure,
and in countries where tail docking is not
carried out lambing percentages are not
affected nor are any disadvantages in-
curred.
Tail-tips collect no more burrs than
bellies.
In Australia it is regarded as cruel to
dock a horse’s tail. Doesn’t the same
apply to sheep?
Toxaemic Jaundice Losses.
“Corimba”: “Corriedale” (B. 21/4/’37)
is probably right in refusing to accept
“Albarmount’s” suggestion that red-
water and toxtemic jaundice are caused
by the same bug, but “Corriedale’s” sug-
gestion that the use of bluestone may be
the cause of t.j. is debatable, as t.j. has
appeared in epidemic form where blue-
stone has not been used.
Severe outbreaks and heavy mortality
have undoubtedly coincided with the
spread of the common wild heliotrope.
It is uncertain whether the seasonal con-
ditions favorable to the growth of helio-
trope conduce to the development of t.j.,
but perhaps the actual grazing of the
weed may be a factor.
There can be no doubt that in some
fat-lamb raising areas t.j. causes greater
losses in crossbred sheep than all Other
“Sorry to hear about Mary breaking her leg, Jacky. Is it mending all
right?”
“ Dunno, boss —she run away from hospital last night!”
ailments combined. Not a few breeders
are giving up this branch of sheep-
farming and going in for merinos.
The chief vet. in one State has been
reported in the daily press as stating that
“losses are much exaggerated.” I say
they have been known to be as high as
80 p.c. of a flock, and losses of 15 p.c.
and 20 p.c. are not at all unusual.
1 myself lost 800 crossbreds out of
3000 through t.j. one year, and a neigh-
bor’s loss was equal to two-fifths of his
sheep. But though we had a good vet.
on the job he could suggest no palliative.
Protein and Foetal Poisoning.
“Silky Bag”: There is little in “Bullar
BirriFs” theory (B. 14/4/’37) that too
much rich feed when an animal is carry-
ing forward young will cause the death
of the lamb or calf foetus. The cause
must be looked for earlier in the history
of the pregnancy.
If the feed from date of service has
been the usual hard grassy pasture, which
is weak in protein and strong in carbo-
hydrates and fibre, the dam may de-
velop an ability to exist on such feed,
though it is not a balanced diet.
If such a dam goes on rich feed-
lucerne, for example—the high protein
content of the diet soon brings about a
high amino-acid content of the blood,
and this, transferred to the foetal circula-
tion, often may be toxic and destroy the
foetus.
More commonly, the cause of death
is plain suffocation. The dam has been
on hard commons for months. She is
put on palatable greenstuff and gorges
herself. The result is an unusual pres-
sure which stops necessary blood supply.
This state of affairs is aggravated if
the green feed in the rumen inclines to
gas. It is comparatively simple for an
animal previously used to moderate
quantities of food to damage a foetus
with pressure through overeating.
In the great majority of such deaths
the cause is previous starvation or long
periods on one-sided rations. The
rr>r>tw balls for attention early in
pregnancy.
Preventing Bleeding.
“Corriedale”: For stopping bleeding,
the searing-iron is out on its own. Even
when small arteries have to be closed, it
will do the job efficiently, and'it is the
cleanest method.
In the field; however, the iron is not
always handy, and some knowledge of
how: the body - attempts to protect itself
against undue blood loss is a useful guide
to treatment. : '
A substance known as fibrin is formed
in blood whenever tissues are torn,
crushed or cut, and this is immediately
precipitated in the form of long needles
that interlace, so making a network in
the flowing bloodstream. When - the
fibrin-net shrinks —only a matter of
minutes after fibrin formation —it entraps
blood cells, and a clot is formed. This
clot is the only normal plug for injured
vessels, and is : relied, on surgically to
prevent death from blood loss. .
Treatment must aim to produce a clot
quickly at the site of injury, where a
race is going on between the stream of
blood attempting to sweep away the
fibrin network, while* the latter tries
equally hard to clot the blood as it flows.
A clean cloth applied to the broken
skin arrests the flow easily, and a clot
forms, but this is destroyed again when
tne-rag is withdrawn. - If a piece of cloth
is first placed over the cut and, by means
of pressure with another wad, held there
until bleeding ceases, it may be- left to
slough off later on. -
Where small veins haye been cut, pres-
sure on each-for a few minutes will, per-
haps, allow a clot to form. When-they
are big, or- arteries have been severed,
each one must be picked up separately
and tied-off. tightly with string. < ' '
If no. large vessels-are .involved and
bleeding is hard to stop with wads, it
often pays to-let the animal alone. Two-
fifths, of the blood can be lost without
serious risk, and Ahis would be rare in
smaller injuries, whereas a lot of time can
be wasted attempting to prevent a flow
that will probably cease on its own ac-
count much, more quickly.
Remember that an animal which has
lost a: good deal of. blood needs plenty
of water immediately to replace its blood
volume.
Improved Pastures.
“Thorley”:- Mornington Peninsula
(Vic.), which had long been a standby for
stock .in drought times,. has in recent
years been much-improved.
Undergrowth’removed, much of)the
land: has been ploughed, crops of rape
or turnips fed off for two. years and the
land then . planted:, with grasses and
clovers, sown just before or just after the
autumn break. . : " ;
Two years’ , cultivation puts such land
into good order for;grass seeds. A favor-
ite mixture is 101 b. English rye with 61b.
sub. clover, 41b. white and up, to 2cwt.
super, per, acre. ; Good returns are ob-
tained, and it .is. found that the pea mite,
while. doing . damage to young white
clover, , does not check the sub. clover
appreciably.. : In ..its earlier stages, s.c.
seems to make more. rapid growth and
get away from the pest.
If a: paddock is laid, down fo s.c. .a
couple of years, a good stand of peren-
nial rye .can be got by sowing early in
the autumn. The land must be well com-
pacted to. get a start with rye ; an old
clover field proves ideal in Gippsland.
One. man off 27.0 acres from November
to the end of February fattened 700 sheep
and has 870 sheep running -on the land
at present.
Plenty of super, is vital.
{Continued on page 44.)


Age 40!
Starts health’s steep downward slope. About 40 life’s
fight begins. Danger symptoms show —weak, dizzy,
depressed spells; backaches, rheumatism (often affect-
ing heart); attacks from kidney germs, acids and
poisons.
AVERAGE LIFE ENDS ABOUT 55
This important fact vitally affects every grown man and woman.
Medical science proves “Life-
line Decline” starts near 40.
Then “ middle - age ” troubles
cheat great numbers of men of
health; while Kidney and
Bladder breakdown afflicts
about 65 men and women in
every 100 —though many never
know why they ail! Seventy-
five per cent, of poison wastes
and uric acid deposits are filtered
by the kidneys in too concen-
trated a form. The overbur-
dened cells cannot stand the
strain. Congestion occurs, forc-
ing back into the system poisons
which should be expelled. Germ
attacks start. Here is where
health starts to fall off. Back,
groin, loin, muscular and
shoulder pains occur; swellings,
headaches, blurred vision, loss
of vitality; perhaps inflammation
of the bladder and urinary tract;
excessive or painful urination;
shortness of breath; palpitation
of the heart, pufliness under the
eyes, nausea and many quite
alarming signs of future trouble.
LIFE CAN “BEGIN” AT 40
And GO ON Comfortably Long After 55
Strengthen kidneys, r est or e
bladder, kill uric acidity—last-
ingly—properly—-and Life can
be more full; can be extended
by five, ten, even twenty years,
For this purpose, Harrison’s Pills
—offered under authority of Dr.
Wm, Harrison, member of the
Royal College of Physicians, are
remarkably effective. Harrison’s
Pills are compounded to the most
perfect prescription known for
safely, surely, quickly overcom-
ing most middle- and old-age
weaknesses, pains and ills.
SSifiSSifi;:::;
85*
8S
m
4
!Saw
n
“Unless I can end these pains and get back my strength
I feel I cant go on."
So say thousands. The Remedy is Harrison’s Pills—producing a
rapid change from despondent weakness and pain to sparkling health.
m.
■pp-ra i®:
*S
s
H
; «&ss
:.wv?K
§1
ss
n
ip
56*:
.
msm
m %wm.
*<:■■>:■:
-
URIC ACID Crystals Like Splintered Glass
TEAR NERVES & MUSCLES
REMOVE
THESE HARM-
FUL ACID
CRYSTALS
with
HARRISON’S
PILLS.
m
v-V-'- i
mm
Diaqram shoiuinq.TMpes of
Needle-point Uric Acid Crgstals
.With every movement —TORTURE! Tiny painpoints that with every
move make yon gasp and iimp—weaken yon and spoil life. Rheumatism
is deadly. It starts with kidney-failure. Cleanse your system of the
trouble-causing crystals; 'heal your raw, weakened kidneys by taking
Harrison’s Pills. This remedy reaches the spot. In quick time
sufferers, who have failed to get benefit from other remedies find
Harrison’s Pills bring grateful ease.
Weary Bodies Revive —YOUTH Returns
as Harrison’s Pills Conquer Causes of Decline
Harrison’s Pills strengthen Kidneys and
Bladder, Expel Uric Acid, Kill Germs and
Revitalise all the Vital Organs.
A short course of Harrison’s Pills produce
surprising improvements in health and vigor.
See the end of limb weariness, of haggard
appearance and despondent outlook. Note
the end of constipation. See a betterment in
your vision. Feel youlrself become a good
ten years younger as Harrison’s Pills kill the
causes of ageing ills and instil new power
into every nerve and sinew; say good-bye to
your aches, pains, inflammation and stiffness.
Feel your step gain new youthful elasticity;
hear your friends remark at the vast improve-
ment in your spirits and your bearing.
HARRISON’S PILLS NEVER DISAPPOINT.
Harrison’s Pills provide the most effective
general method known of prolonging useful,
healthy, pain-free life. And, in the added
years you gain, who knows what further
astounding marvels of rejuvenation science
may devise?
Women Get Splendid Results
“Dear I Sirs,— My daughter has suffered a lot from
swollen feet. She tried many other remedies, but
obtained no benefit until taking Harrison’s -Pills; • They
gave her relief straight away, and we cannot speak
.tooj highly of them—they really are wonderful. She
has had no recurrences of the r tronble.--
; (Signed) O.'E. McKellar.P
MADE HIM A NEW MAN 1
“Dear Sirs, —Due to uric acid ‘ and severe rheumatism, I
was practically dead at 77. In spite of the severity of
my trouble, Harrison’s Pills have made a new man of
me, and I feel not a day older than 50. I have never
known any remedy act in such a remarkably beneficial
manner.—"( Signed) B. Jacobson."
ANOTHER USER SAYS:—
“Harrison’s Kidney and Bladder Pills are the only pills
that do me any good . . . they saved me going to the
Hobart Public Hospital week after week. I suffered
from splitting headaches, giddiness, and I was bent
over like a half-shut penknife with my back. Last
August I was in bed five weeks —thanks to Harrison’s
Pills I am put of bed now. You can use this to let
anyone else know. —(Signed) .1. Taylor.”
Future will be so Interesting
LIFE MAY HOLD SO
MUCH
A REAL
uarantee
IMMEDIATE RESULTS
OR NO COST.
Simply get a package of Harrison’s Pills from the
nearest chemist. Take as directed, and if not freed
from your aches and pains—if not more than pleased
with the improvements in your health, strength and
general bearing—your money will be returned. This
guarantee protects you in making a trial —if Harrison’s
Pills succeed at once in your own case, they are worth
the cost. If the first bottle fails —it is free I
END AGEING KIDNEY,
Bladder and Acid Ills With
HARMSOHS PILLS


Write for
a Catalogue.
-f, ;
'H
\c_>.
<£3
Have you ever
had perfect
Comfort ?
What we really
mean is perfect
foot comfort.
Probably you
haven’t only a
certain percent-
age of people
have. But, then,
only a certain
percentage of
people wear
Abbey Ortho-
paedic Shoes.
Abbey Orthopaedic Shoes are made on special
foot-form Lasts with special Arch Supports to
relieve the feet of strain.
Stocked in eight different fittings to every size
and made in Black and Brown Calf.
Prices: Black, 37/6; Brown, 39/6.
ABBEY SHOES
316 George St.,
224 Pitt St.,
Sydney.
Telegraphic Address:
“ABBEY BOOTS,
SYDNEY.”
SPENSHAW” WOOL-DUSTING MACHINE
(PATENTED).
GROWERS—
SCOURERS
BLENDERS-
BUYERS
Why pay freight and charges on dirt, when it can be safely
and economically removed with a “SPENSHAW” before
it is pressed and sent on an expensive journey to market?
—Buyers don’t pay for dirt.
Using “SPENSHAW” Machines save labour, liquor, time,
and give clients a BETTER PRODUCT.
Why continue hand-blending? The “SPENSHAW” does
it better and quicker.
Buy “SPENSHAW” Willeyed Wool—-because they know
that the staple has not been damaged, and with the sand,
dust and vegetable fault removed, the margin of error in
the “Yield” is reduced to a minimum——resulting in full
market value FOR THE GROWER.
“SPENSHAW” Machines installed at the North Western Woollen Mills, Stawell,
Victoria; Jandacot Scour, Western Australia; Merriwa Contracting Co., Sydney;
Warrnambool Woollen Mills, Victoria; Foster and Co., Hindmarsh, S.A.; Phoenix
Wool Company, Pty., Geelong; William Smith, Geelong; R. M. Duncan, Footscray,
Victoria; Henshaw Jackson, Port Adelaide; Kinchega Station, Broken Hill; R. M.
Fowler, Fremantle, W.A.; Whakatu Scour, Hastings, N.Z.
For full particulars write the proprietors—
Frank Young Woolwilleyers Co., Ltd.,
22 King William Street, ADELAIDE.
alii®
'&J.
IMM 1 /M
vdra/M
*SSSKSSSSW<*. ” jfe't'
• i “**ss«'&r2>'t** 0
M%avn"
r
Agents:
flohn Woods & Co.
Ltd.,
388 Sussex Street.
Sydney.
Distilled by:
Hiram Walker & Sons
Ltd.,
Walkerville. Ontario,
Canada.
Since 1858.
The Basis of
Perfect Cocktails
(PRE-WAR STRENGTH)
The Cocktail Recipe that won the
prize in a competition open to the
World had as its main ingredient
Canadian Club Whisky.
This Whisky, bottled in bond at pre-
war strength, costs no more than
standard Scotch brands, yet it has
won and retains International repute.
Write for a free Cocktail Recipe
Book to the Agents.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN”
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
jffuf&vlleivrL
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free,
The Ideal Carcass.
“Mookau”: Overseas it is usually
reckoned that a 10001 b. liveweight steer
is an ideal killer. In Chicago a killer is
expected to produce about 7601 b. of pro-
ducts, shrinkage allowance being about
2001 b. and waste material nearly lcwt.
Meats will account for 6001 b. odd (in-
cluding 401 b. for heart, liver, brains and
other internals). About 231 b. is oil and
stearine. A good hide goes 601 b., and
blood, horns, bones, tallow and casings
are all counted into the balance.
A 2501 b. side should work out about
431 b. loin cuts, 601 b. of round, 101 b.
flank and 101 b. to 121 b. suet —say, the
whole hind round 1201 b.
The forequarter weighs a little more
—chuck cuts 601 b. to 651 b., plate 301 b.,
ribs 221 b. to 241 b. and foreshank 101 b.
The key to producing a better carcass
lies in putting up the yield of better-
priced meat. Loin and ribs make up
about a quarter of the meat, but the
value of those cuts is close to 40 p.c. of
all meat. Flank, plate, shank and suet
make up nearly 30 p.c. of the dead-
weight sides, but they are usually worth
not more than 15 p.c. in value.
Going further, it may be said that 201 b.
of a prime animal goes to club and
porterhouse types of steak in the London
and U.S. city markets, about the same to
sirloin steaks, 251 b. to rib roast and 401 b.
to 421 b. round to steak and rump roasts.
The average of all cuts can vary 101 b.
in fat between a prime and a poor beast,
and heavy bone may cut as much as 61b.
or 71b. off the beef-carrying capacity of
an animal.
If beefgrowers kept figures like these
regularly in their minds and bred to pro-
duce animals with a maximum of choice
cuts and a minimum of bone and rub-
bish, their work might become more
profitable to them.
Horses in the North.
“Walliew”: At the last Charters
Towers (N.Q.) sales 400 head were sold
for £6123 12s.
Had the sale been confined to draughts
and semi-draughts, the average price
would have been far above that figure —
£43 was paid for a three-year-old un-
broken red-roan draught gelding from
Bluff Downs ; £4O for a Hillgrove-bred
draught gelding; £32 for a four-year-old
bay gelding from Jesmond ; £3l for a
four-year-old brown Carpentaria Downs-
bred draught gelding unbroken. Fifty-
five Bluff Downs horses averaged £27 13s.
When the times provide an argument as
to whether £6l paid recently at Hughen-
den (C.Q.) for a draught gelding consti-
tutes a Queensland record for a saleyard
purchase, it certainly does not look as
if the horse is finished—-in the North, at
any rate.
As for bloodstock—well, breeders are
not complaining of prices.
Unsoundness in Horses.
“Agamemnon”: The question of what
constitutes unsoundness in a horse will
probably never be settled. It is some-
times difficult to say definitely whether
or not a spavin exists. Some horsemen
are frightened of the so-called “coarse
hock,” but if both are alike and the
action perfect such hocks are extremely
good and strong.
Even a true spavin on a big hock in a
horse over five years often causes no
trouble. However, when there is inter-
ference with hock action, or in a young
horse, it will almost certainly lead to per-
sistent and severe lameness.
Similarly, curb on a good-shaped hock
is not of very grave, importance, but if
associated with sickle hock or one tied
below the joint it is liable to cause re-
peated lameness after any severe riding or
jumping.
“Roaring” is definitely an unsound-
ness, but radical operation in the hands
of a skilled vet. can guarantee 50 p.c.
complete cures, and in all but a very
few cases some improvement.
Corns cause great stiffness in action,
and once established are almost certain
to recur. Paring the corn and three-
quarter bar shoes will usually relieve the
trouble.
Navicular disease is hard to diagnose,
and treatment and cause alike are
obscure. Since it is always progressive it
presents one of the worst forms of un-
soundness.
Cataract in the eye, as long as only
one eye is affected, although an unsound-
ness, is usually not as serious as most
riders think. However, it may cause a
hack to swerve or jump crooked.
Bots in Horses.
“Albarmount”: It is true that nearly
all horses are affected with bots ; but it
seems unlikely that bots caused the.
deaths that “Horsey” (B. 31/3/’37) men-
tioned.
Amateur vets, on finding numerous hot
larvae attached to the stomach walls, and
the inner lining apparently partly eaten
away, often attribute the cause of death
to bots. This condition of the stomach
lining, however, is normal.
There are three species of bots. The
nasal bots lay black eggs on the hairs
near the nose ; the others lay yellow eggs,
one under the jaws and the other on the
legs and shoulders.
The eggs are licked off and swallowed,
later undergoing many changes in the
stomach, where the larvae remain from
eight to ten months.
In the early stage these are reddish-
pink, but afterwards become yellowish.
Mature larvae are about yin. long. They
cause some imflammation and small
ulcers, but do no great harm to their
hosts.
The larvae are very resistant to drench-
ing, so preventive measures are preferred.
A simple one is to wipe the hair on the
laying grounds with a kerosene-soaked
rag regularly during the hot months.
Pigs and Pasture.
“Silky Bag”: One of the most strik-
ing weaknesses in Australian pig-feeding
methods is the failure to use. pastures to
their full extent.
A few acres of good ground sown with
perennial rye, white clover and lucerne,
if well manured and harrowed often, will
carry a large, number of pigs at little cost.
Subdivision into numerous long, narrow
plots is a first expense, but, once com-
pleted, this system is the most efficient
for dairy farms in over 25in. rainfall
country. The grazing can be varied oc-
casionally to an artichoke or rape plot
(in season).
I find it hard to understand why
pig-growers turn to wheat and maize
usually the dearest of grains—in making
concentrated rations.
Oats (ground) at 4s. for 601 b. are good,
and pollard is a sterling standby. Better
than these, however, is a mixture of pea-
nut meal and maize-oil meal. The
former costs £ll a ton on farms and
contains over 40 p.c. protein, 26 p.c.
carbohydrate and 10 p.c. fat. Maize-oil
meal is £B, and has over 20 p.c. protein,
50 p.c. carbohydrate and 15 p.c. fat.
A Lesson in Fallowing.
“Bullar Birril”: This year, with high
prices ruling, thousands of acres will be
sown which ultimately would be more
profitable in fallow.
Stubbles which have been scratched
with a ducksfoot, often regardless of the
weather, hastily cleared land only once
ploughed, and old pastures hurriedly
turned over are in no condition to receive
seed. More especially is this the case
when autumn rains have held off as long
as they have done this year in some
districts.
An example of what can be achieved
by the proper preparation before sowing
is to be seen in one N. S. Wales district,
where to 40 acres well prepared for grow-
ing winter feed and conserved fodder a
farmer added 60 acres ploughed only
once in the middle of March (after a fall
of 170 points). Sowing began on April
6 on the, freshly-ploughed country and
finished on April 10 on the well-prepared
fallow. In the “new” land the seed was
drilled into bone-dry soil; in the pre-
pared land it was laid on a damp and
perfect seedbed.
On April 17 the oats on the fallowed
land was Sin. above the ground ; up till
April 28 there was no sign of the rest of
the crop.
Saanen Goats.
“Duggai”: Switzerland, the home of
the Saanen goat —the breed is being tried
in Queensland to improve, the local
breed’s milk supply—exports £2,000,000
worth of cheese a year, and Switzerland
could be dropped into one of our Terri-
tory cattle stations.
There is a big regular demand for
goat’s-milk cheese, and the demand for


im
Conklin
NOZAC PEN
Before you buy any pen see
the Conklin Nozac —the
world’s finest precision writing
instrument.
This perfect precision writing
instrument offers the revo-
lutionary Cushion Point, a
new scientific development
that makes writing easier and
smoother, modern self-filling
device that "Winds Like a
Watch,” new controlled feed,
visible Ink supply, the exclu-
sive Conklin Word Gauge, and
beautiful penline styling.
Once you have tried the
Conklin, you will want this
modern precision pen, the pen
that has everything. Conklin
Nozac Pens, Pencils and Sets
are on display at leading
Stores everywhere.
The Nozac Pens with Pencils
to match are available in Black
and in Grey, Red and Green
Pearl. The Pens are priced
at 22/6, 30/- and 40/- each.
Pencils to match, 17/6 and
23/- each. Complete Sets in
Presentation Cases, 40/-, 55/-
and 65/-.
Use Conklin Fountain Pen Ink
the best for every pen
4oz. Bottles in all Colours,
1/- per Bottle.
S-T-R-E-T-C-H
YOUR MONEY
That’s why 6AM has its aerial
on top of the ranges—so that
its programmes will cover the
Stato—sa that the advertiser's
message will reach the maximum
number of listeners, and bring
maximum results.
6AM
Prince’s Chambers,
William Street,
Perth,
Western Australia.
THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Friday
Is the most popular G4-page woman’s
paper published in the Common-
wealth. It features everything a
woman ought to know. Once you
read it you will never be without it.
Its up-to-date weekly pattern is
free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
252 George Street, Sydney.
-7-
Y^J
V'V
mrM
w
":v
i&t':
4>.
y
-:■!*■
POWP ::
A
sr
wl
S m
Q°
5S' : -v&'^§
“British Built
mo
o
%
<y
What a world of confidence
these words inspire—what a
promise of performance they
hold! In every sphere of engi-
neering, British workmanship
stands supreme.
Listen in and laugh
at
“Leave II to
Leslie,”
■Stations
2TM, 2\V(i, -2NZ.
7.50 p'.m. even
Tuesday, Wednes-
day ami Thursday.
Station ‘IOZ every
Monday, Tuesday,
Wednesday and
Thursday.
isTen
Sheep Shearing
MACHINERY
Lister Guaranteed Sealed, Ball-Bearing Overhead Brackets, equipped
with the new Ratchet “in-and-out” Gear, and driving Lister “Ace”
Handpieces, are outstanding examples of British Workmanship. T hey
offer every improvement that engineering skill and ingenuity can
devise, coupled with the guarantee of lifetime service that only Lister
can give. Sooner or later you will equip your shed with Lister
“Duplex” and Lister “Ace” Handpieces. Let us have the oppor-
tunity now of proving to you how much time and money this ideal
combination can save you.
Sole Agents for New South Wales:
Dangar, Gedye & Malloch Ltd
Malloch House, 10-14 Young Street, Sydney.
“The House for Shearing Machinery .”
ooatskins is increasing, these producing
the leather most favored by airmen
The Saanen is far more intelligent than
the sheep, and much cleaner than the
cow. It will forage, for itself in seasons
when both these would starve.
Feeding is the key to success. The
idea that they milk well on jam-tins, old
boots, glass bottles and suchlike should
be left to the humorists.
Top-dressing Virgin Land.
“Hortus”: It’s not much good top-
dressing virgin soil if there are no clovers
or legumes about, but, given that start,
a wire-grass infected paddock has been
converted into a dominant clover pasture,
with super., and poor sheep country has
become good dairying grassland. It’s
cheap, too —no ploughing, no sowing.
Thirteen years’ trials in S. Aus. have
proved how top-dressing pays. Un-
manured paddocks, in trials, averaged
carrying capacity of 0.89 sheep per acre.
Rock phosphate (up to one ton) produced
an increase to 2.13 sheep per acre;
super. (901 b. and 1801 b. annually), three
sheep. One top of burnt lime (one appli-
cation) with super, (lcwt. yearly) gained
the best result —3.25 sheep. One ton
of gypsum (one application) with super,
(lcwt. yearly) did not do so well —2.78
sheep per acre.
With a rotational scheme and using
super. (1801 b.), the experimentalists, after-
five years’ trials, proved that the pad-
docks could maintain 4| sheep to the
acre.
Can the soil become super.-sick? These
trials, with rotational scheme, answer the
question. The paddocks show a progres-
sive annual pasture improvement.
With super, at £5 a ton delivered, and
annual value of sheep, say, 155., the in-
creased profit, as compared with un-
manured paddock, has been: With burnt
lime and super., 265. Bd. per annum ,
with crushed lime and super., 255. 9d.
Averaging two applications of super.
(901 b. and 1801 b.), the gain was 265. 3d.
per acre.
The unmanured land returned 8.391 b.
per acre. Super, alone returned 30.321 b.
per acre —an increase of 261 p.c.
All the ewes in the different paddocks
were of similar age and breeding—of
even type and development. The coun-
try was all one class. There was no
hand-feeding or supplementary stock lick.
All ewes on top-dressed areas had greater
weight than those on unmanured sections.
Growing Dates in Australia.
“Zedo”: At Coward Springs (S.A.)
there have been bearing date palms for
years, and Central Queensland has a few
groves in production. The date would
repay serious cultivation in inner Aus-
tralia.
The palm likes a dry climate, not too
hot in summer and not overcold in
winter. It is not easy to find conditions
which are just right. India has tried for
centuries without success, except in the
Sind and parts of the Punjab, where the
seasons are nearly those of a desert. The
monsoon, which comes at midsummer
when the fruit is just beginning to ripen,
is the danger element.
Australia has only the shadow of a
monsoon season, and as temperatures
rarely reach down to sdeg. Fahr., even in
the coldest years, Australian conditions
are about the best in the world.
As to soil, the date takes what is com-
ing to it without protest. It likes a
touch of salt. Probably a red, sweet clay
is best, but there is little humus in much
of the Egyptian date soil, and most Aus-
tralians would laugh at the idea of plant-
ing even Bathurst bun on the Basra
clays, which produce some of the best of
the Irak dates.
The palms respond to fertiliser, and a
little alkali suits them —sodium, potas-
sium and magnesium chlorides, but not
carbonates. Also, while it likes a dry,
unhumid climate, the date palm is a
heavy drinker. In Irak the palms are
usually irrigated every week; but, while
groves are mainly found round water-
holes, on the Arabian Peninsula the date
grows in many places where there is no
irrigation and little rainfall. Probably,
like lucerne, the palms can find water
even if it is 30ft. underground.
Date palms can be produced both from
seedlings and shoots, but the seedling
system has mainly been a failure, though j
the establishment of a stable strain
should make it a success. At present, the
difficulty of detecting useless male trees j
in the early stages is enough to condemn
the method.
Offshoots are taken from parent palms j
when they weigh 101 b. or more and are
from two to four years old ; but imported
shoots might well be requisitioned larger
—they dry out easily.
.Spring is the best planting time. The
offshoot is put into a hole 3ft. square
and 3ft. deep, and bedded in with soil, ;
a good part of which has been mixed i
with ashes. Give plenty of mixed
straw and farmyard manure twice a year.
Dates have a good many diseases, in-
cluding several scales and borers, and
they are not easier, to look after than
coconuts. They should be in full bearing
in about five years, but the time varies.
At any rate, they should be paying up-
keep costs at the third year.
Each palm should be good for lcwt.
of dates p.a. ; in some U.S.A. plantations
the average has gone up to 2501 b. The
price of first-grade runs as high as Is.
per pound to the grower in America.
.
Hints for the Farm.
“Mulyan”: A horseyard where much
breaking-in is done should be made with
round timber, the rails fitted in slots on
the inside of the posts, instead of being
mortised in. Then rails and side of
posts are flush, and a horse can rub or
bump round the enclosure without injury.
Many a good youngster has had a hip
knocked down against mortised posts, the
edges of which stand out from the rails.
“Dimon”: Don’t throw bits of thread
or cotton on the fowl run, or on a rubbish
tip where fowls scratch. I have seen
dozens of hens and chickens with crippled
or deformed feet through threads getting
fast round their toes.
“Nothung”: What is the Australian
record for a litter of pigs at eight weeks?
Hitherto the Queensland top had been 14
of a total weight of 5831 b., by a white
sow owned by J. Stewart, Cedar Pocket,
Gympie (Q.). Now, R. A. Turpin’s
Queensland-bred sow, Pensilva Ace 3rd,
has had 12 Wessex Saddlebacks of a total
weight 624|1b. at eight weeks. The boar
was Long Park Champion (imp.); the
farm, Pensilva stud farm, Lowood.


I
|earn this fascinating well-paid
profession at home from 16 noted
artists. For beautifully illustrated
literature FREE write to Dept.* B
SOSwanston Sr. Melbourne
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL SANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. 11. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
E. E. Loxton, Esq. ; Win, A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —l). S'. FORBES.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 97
branches in Queensland and Northern Kivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking’ Institutions covering Australasia and the world,, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction-of .all general banking business.
Profitable!
Enjoyable!
METROPOUTAN SCHOOL
6 Dailey St., Sydney. OF JOURNALISM
Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Typist, Sydney, wants spare-time work typing
novels; neat and accurate. —5574.
Accountant-secretary of progressive brick-
works, W.A., desires opportunity of manage-
ment. Will invest if necessary.—5614.
Gentleman, Sydney, exp. advertising can-
vasser, would like to hear of established weekly
or monthly requiring reliable man, salary and
commission.—5573.
Partner, with £350 wanted to improve, and,
if desired, resell at profit, 70-acre farm in
Romsey-Hesket district, Vic., noted for heavy
crops of potatoes.—5622.
To buy Coghlan’s Labour and Industry in
Australia, four vols., and Roberts’s Australian
Land Settlement. —5641.
To buy second-hand, in good condition,
Odyssey of a Lonely Woman. —5646.
To buy Along the Cowpasture Road, by
Hardy Wilson. —5650.
Information Sought.
Schneider trophy winners, places of flights
and speeds since the 200 -m.p.h. mark was
passed in that event? —5605.
1925, Lieut. Doolittle (U.S.A.), at Baltimore,
232.57 m.p.h.; 1926, Major de Bernardi (Italy),
at Hampton Roads, 246.496 m.p.h.; 1927,
Flight-Lt. Webster (Great Britain), at Venice,
281.656 m.p.h.; 1929, Flying-Officer Waghorn
(Great Britain), at Southampton, 328.63 m.p.h.;
1931, Flight-Lt. J. N. Boothman (Great Britain),
at Solent, 340 m.p.h.
* * * *
Winners of swimming events at the 1936
Olympic Games at Berlin ? —5596.
Men: 100 metres (freestyle), F. Csik (Hun-
gary), 57 3-5sec. 100 metres (backstroke), A.
Keifer, U.S.A., Imin. 5 9-10sec. 200. metres
(breaststroke), T. Hamauro, Japan, 2min.
400 metres (freestyle), J. Medica,
U.S.A., 4min. 444sec. 1500 metres (freestyle),
N. Terada, Japan, 19min. 13 7-10sec. 800
metres relay, Japan, 8min. 51|sec. Highboard
diving, M. Wayne, U.S.A. Springboard diving,
D. Dagener, U.S.A. Women: 100 metres (free-
style), H. W. Mastenbroek, Holland, lmin.
5 9-10sec. 100 metres (backstroke), D. Senff,
Holland, lmin. 18 9-10sec. 200 metres (breast-
stroke), H. Machata, Japan, 3min. 3 3-5sec.
400 metres (freestyle), H. W. Mastenbroek, Hol-
land, 5min. 26 2-5sec. 400 metres relay, Hol-
land, 4min. 36sec. Springboard diving, D.
Poynton Hill, U.S.A. High diving, M. Gestring,
U.S.A.
# % %
(1) Principal sources of power alcohol? (2)
Average yield in gallons per ton of raw material
for some of the more commonly used
materials? (3) Cost of plant in Australia? —
5554.
(1) Sugarcane, molasses, sorghum, sugar-
beets, cereals, tubers, fruits, etc., and cellulosic
materials such as wood and straw. (2) Sugar
molasses 65 gallons per ton, sugarcane 20,
sugar-beet 20, maize 85, sorghum grains 87,
sorghum stalks 12, wheat 83, potatoes 20, apples
and pears 12, apricots and peaches 11, grapes
18, prickly-pear 2 to 5, prickly-pear fruit 19,
dry wood up to 75. There are many other
substances, such as husks, straws, shrubs, etc.
(3) Cost of a 5000-gallon-a-day plant, plus
working capital, has been estimated at about
£60,000. Estimates differ.
* * * *
What led to the transportation to Australia
of Robert Lathrop Murray, who appears to have
been a trouble to Lieut.-Gov. Arthur? His
history before transportation ? —5647.
His full name was Robert William Felton
Lathrop, to which he added' the name of Murray
on coming of age. Born in 1770 and educated
at Westminster and Cambridge, he entered the
army, and on June 12, 1797, while on service
in Ireland, married Alicia Marshall, who was
18 years older than himself. The ceremony
was performed in a private house without
banns or license. In 1801, at Marylebone, he
married Catherine Clarke, whom he had known
from childhood and who was aware of the
previous ceremony but considered it informal;
she possessed £10,000 and would receive £70,000
on her mother’s death. Murray served in the
Napoleonic wars, and reached the rank of cap-
tain. After his return he was prosecuted for
bigamy at the instance of a stranger named
John Pickering, was found guilty and sentenced
to transportation for seven years.
* * * *
Is it a fact that during the French Revolution
the British Government printed and circulated
forged assignats in France? —5332.
No. A group of counter-revolutionaries,
headed by the Count d’Artois, set up a print-
ing press in England and produced imitations
of the assignats issued in France by the
National Convention. On March 21, 1794, the
practice was denounced by Sheridan in the
House of Commons. In view of the strong
anti-Jacobin bias of the British Government,
however, it is improbable that the disclosures
caused much concern. Forged assignats were
similarly produced in other countries adjacent
to France.
# * *
Some particulars concerning the “Van Die-
men’s Land Gazette” ? Who was its printer?
How many numbers were published and at what
intervals? What was its general appearance?
—5634.
The “Van Diemen’s Land Gazette and
General Advertiser,” the second newspaper
published in Tasmania, bore the imprint
"Printed by G. Clarke, Government Printer,
Hobart,” except in the fourth issue, when the
imprint was omitted. Only nine numbers were
published, the first on May 21, 1814, and the
succeeding numbers on June 4 and 18, July 2,
16 and 30, August 20, and September 10
and 24. It consisted of a large quarto sheet,
with two columns on each of the two pages.
$ % * *
Biographical information concerning Wil-
liam Barnes, who in 1823 suggested to the
Colonial Office a settlement in the Gulf of Car-
pentaria ? —5638.
In 1824 he was in command of the brig Sted-
comb on a trading voyage financed by mer-
chants interested in the East India trade. He
arrived at Melville Island in 1825. When the
brig sailed under charter to procure buffalo
from Timor he remained at Melville Island
and thus escaped the fate of the crew, who
were butchered by pirates. He visited Sydney
and tendered his services for official employ-
ment, but Governor Darling declined his offer
on account of his conduct at Melville Island
and while on a visit to Madagascar. Darling
described him as an unprincipled adventurer.
* * * *
Biographical details and particulars of career
of Florence Austral? —5657.
Born at Richmond, Melbourne, and educated
in that city, studying singing, harmony and
pianoforte at Melbourne University Conserva-
torium. Later she studied opera at the London
School of Opera and in New York under Signor
Sibella. She made her debut in grand opera
at Covent Garden with the British National
Opera Company as Brunnhilde in “The Val-
kyrie,” 1922, and subsequently sang Brunn-
hilde in the complete Ring cycle, also the title
role in “Aida.” She has appeared frequently
at Albert Hall and Queen’s Hall, London, with
Sir Henry Wood’s Orchestra and the London
Symphony Orchestra. Married the flautist John
Amadio, 1925. Address, 51 Priory-road, West
Hampstead, London.
*
Some particulars of Steve Fairbairn? What
has he published ?— 5643.
Born August 25, 1862, the son of George
Fairbairn, of Lara, near Geelong (Vic.), and
educated at Geelong College and Jesus College,
Cambridge. Rowed four years for Cam-
bridge against Oxford; was called to the Bar,
Inner Temple; and is a director of Dalgety and
Cos., London. Publications include an auto-
biography, Fairbairn of Jesus (1931), Rowing
Notes and Fairbairn’s Rowing Annual. Address
care Dalgety and Cos., 65 Leadenhall-street,
London. E.C.3.
* * * *
Some details concerning Thomas Bock, an
early Australian artist? —5675.
Born at Sutton Coldfield (Eng.), he was
apprenticed to a Birmingham engraver and
afterwards established himself as an engraver
and miniature painter. Arriving in Hobart about
1824, he engraved all the banknotes of the
colony, also those for the Port Phillip Bank,
Melbourne, and drew a number of portraits of
well-known citizens and a series of studies of
aborigines for Lady Franklin, which are
now in the Hobart Gallery. Some of the studies
are reproduced in Fenton’s History of Tasmania.
He is represented in the Mitchell Library and
in the Beattie, Dixson and Allport collections.
(1) Was the so-called “convict-ship” Success,
now on exhibition in U.S.A., the H.M.S.
Success in which Capt. James Stirling in-
vestigated Raffles Bay and the Swan River? (2)
History of the Success before it was bought by
the Victorian Government and converted into a
hulk ? —5616.
(1) No. (2) A vessel of 622 tons, built in
1840 at Moulmein, Burma, for the first-class
passenger trade between Britain and the East
Indies. In 1849, and again in 1851, the ship
carried emigrants to Australia, her crew desert-
ing on the second trip to go to the gold dig-
gings. She was bought by the Vic. Government
in 1852 and made a hulk on June 27, 1853.
*** * .
Names of (1) months and (2) week-days in
the Japanese calendar ?~ 5606.
(1) The months are not named. They are
known as First Month, Second Month, etc.,
first month being the equivalent to January.
(2) The days of the week are Nichiyobi (Sun-
day), Getsuyobi (Moon-day), Kwayobi (Fire-
day), Suiyobi (Water-day), Mokuyobi (Wood-
day), Kinyobi (Metal-day) and Doyobi (Earth-
day).
* * * *
What is a picaresque novel? —5601.
The prose autobiography of a real or fic-
titious personage who describes his experiences
as a vagabond and who satirises the society
which he has exploited. The type is Spanish,
but the most widely-known example is the
French Gil Bias. Picaro is a Spanish word
meaning vagabond.
* * H= H:
Difference between comedy, farce and bur-
lesque as species of drama ? —5610.
Comedy aims at entertaining by the fidelity
with which it presents life as we all know it,
farce at raising laughter by the outrageous
absurdity of the situations or characters ex-
hibited, and burlesque at tickling the fancy by
caricaturing things with which the audience is
familiar.
* # * *
Average height and weight of men in the
United Kingdom ? —5583.
They have been tabulated as follows (the
weights include clothing, which is generally cal-
culated at one twenty-fourth of the whole):
Scotsmen, average height sft. B|in., average
weight list. Ulb.; Irishmen, sft. Bin. and lOst.
131 b.; Englishmen, sft. 71in. and list, lib.;
Welshmen, sft. 6fin. and list. 41b.
* * * #
What are the lines wherein Shakspeare refers
to the “drowsy syrups of the world’’ and in
what play do they occur ? —5599.
They are from “Othello,” Act 111, Scene 3,
and run as follows: —
Not poppy, nor mandragora,
Nor all tilt- drowsy syrups of the world,
Shall ever medicine thee to that sweet sleep
Which thou ow’dst yesterday.
* * * *
A friend contends that the use of the word
“dilemma'’ instead of “difficulty” when the
question of alternatives does not definitely arise
is slipshod writing. Is he correct ? —5696.
Yes. Dilemma should be used only when
there is a pair or a number of lines that might
be taken in argument or action, and each is
unsatisfactory.
* t- * *
Is it possible to secure temporary copyright
in the U.S.A. of a novel published in Australia,
and what conditions must be observed to secure
full U.S.A. copyright? —s7oo.
Ad interim copyright in the U.S.A. is secured
if one copy of the Australian edition is sent,
together with application on the appropriate
printed form and a fee of two dollars, to the
Copyright Office, Library of Congress, Washing-
ton, D.C., within 60 days of publication in
Australia. That copyright endures for 120
days, within which period the work must be
reprinted in the U.S. from type set therein,
bound therein and published with the notice
of copyright and registered, in order to secure
an extension to the full first term of U.S.A.
copyright, which is 28 years.
* * * 1=
(1) Who may be appointed District Court
Judges in N.S.W. ? What is the retiring age,
and Irow can they be removed from office ?
(2) Who may be appointed magistrates in
N.S.W. 5652.
(1) Any barrister of five years’ standing or
attorney of seven years’ standing. Retiring
age is 70. They may be removed from office by
the Governor for inability or misbehavior, sub-
ject first to appeal to the Governor-in-Council.
(2) Magistrates are appointed from among
members of the public service unless it is certi-
fied by the Public Service Board that no member
of the service is suitable and available for
such office. Persons so appointed must have
attained the age of 35, and have passed the
prescribed examination in law. Magistrates
hold office at the pleasure of the Governor.
* * * *
(1) Rates of pay of wireless operators in the
Australian mercantile marine service ? (2) Of
wireless operators employed on Australian coast
stations? (3) Award rates for technicians em-
ployed on N.S.W. and Vic. broadcast stations?
—5603.
(1) From £l3 11s. to £2l 16s. per month,
according to the tonnage of the vessel. Sub-
inspectors receive £25 Is. and juniors under 21
years up to £l2 11s. These figures are subject
to slight alteration according to the basic wage.
(2) Radio telegraphist from £240 p.a., with
annual increases up to £365 ; mechanics from
£284 up to £302; stationmasters from £422 up
to £437. These figures do not include tropical
allowance. (3) Victoria: Grade-A stations,
technician in charge £7 4s. per week, tech-
nician £6 45., control-room operator £4 195.;
grade-B stations, £6 145., £5 195., £4 195.;
grade-C stations, £6 45., £5 145., £4 195.;
grade-D stations, technician £5 145., control-
room operator £4 19s. Stations are graded
according to the number of technical staff. In
N.S.W. the rates are Is. higher for all grades.
* * * *
Composition and functions of the Executive
Council in the Australian Federal and State
Parliamentary systems ?— 5626.
It is composed of the Governor-General (or
Governor) and the Ministers of State. At the
meetings, presided over by the Governor-
General (or Governor), the decisions of the
Cabinet are put into official form and made
effective, appointments are confirmed, resigna-
tions accepted, proceedings ordered and notices
and regulations published.
* * * *
When and how did Australia acquire its terri-
tories in the Antarctic? —5629.
An Imperial Order in Council, February 7,
1933, placed under the authority of the Com-
monwealth the Antarctic territories comprising
all the islands and territory, other than Adelie
Land, situated south of 60deg. south lat. and
lying between 160 deg. east long, and 45 deg.
east long. The territory was accepted by the
Commonwealth, under the name of the Austra-
lian Antarctic Territory, in the Australian Ant-
arctic Territory Acceptance Act 1933.
❖ ❖ #
Particulars as to number and chief variety of
(1) crayfish, (2) prawns, (3) crabs and (4)
oysters marketed by commercial enterprises in
N. S. Wales during last year for which figures
are available? —5669.
(1) During 1935 174,390 marine crayfish
( Palinurus ) were marketed, chiefly from the
northern crayfish grounds (Newcastle to Port
Macquarie). (2) Approximately 1,741,0801 b. of
marine prawns {Penceus) was obtained, and
about 32,7231 b. was condemned. (3) About
1650 dozen crabs were obtained, including
several species of swimming crabs. (4) 29,587
three-bushel bags of oysters were obtained,
chiefly from artificial cultivation areas.
❖ -!' -I' sfc
(1) Chances of certificate-holder obtaining em-
ployment in N.S.W. as town or shire clerk?
(2) Does the number of qualified town and
shire clerks largely exceed the number of
positions? (3) What salaries do positions carry?
(4) How long would it take a person educated
to intermediate certificate standard to study for
certificate ? —5487.
(1) Fairly good. (2) No. (3) Where revenue
exceeds £ISOO and does not exceed £3OOO the
salary is £290 p.a. Where the revenue exceeds
£IOO,OOO and does not exceed £IIO,OOO the
salary is £750 p.a. (4) The examination is taken
in two sections. Probably it would take two
years’ study.
Brief Answers.
F.C.A.: The constant correction will not harm
him. The best method is to stop the child
when he stammers, and then make him repeat
the sentence slowly. Sydney Stammerers’ Club,
or Brunton Gibb, 16 Ash-street, Sydney, will
give advice... .W.H.8.: (1) Sugar is a food
which is readily absorbed both in health and
in debilitating diseases, when the intake of food
that can be digested is insufficient. So valu-
able a food is it that it is often given by
intravenous injection in cases of acute circula-
tory failure. (2) Bread contains, if made from
refined flour, considerable quantities of pro-
teins, lat and carbohydrates. One pound of
bread furnishes 1215 calories. No harmful re-
sults ensue in a healthy person from eating
either cane sugar or bread made from refined
flour... .S.L.: An applicant for an invalid pen-
sion must lurnish satisfactory evidence that his
or her disability is total and permanent, and
became so in Australia. Best plan is to con-
sult a local physician J.L.E.: The number
ol: cattle in the British Isles at latest returns
was 12,678,357, in England and Wales 6,534,000,
in Australia 13,512,000. Number of sheep in
British Isles 28,103,405, in England and Wales
16,630,000, in Australia 114,100,000. The
United Kingdom figures are exclusive of the
Isle of Man and Channel Islands E.H.: Feed
night and morning; give rabbit, fish (cooked
or uncooked), and some raw meat, with either
milk or water to drink. Place a sandbox
in a handy place, and provide with a warm,
comfortable bed....M.H.: (1) The meaning of
the phrase “And David’s lips are locked’’ in
stanza six of “The Rubaiyat” is seen by com-
parison with the preceding stanza, in which the
poet refers to the passing of the gardens of
1 ram and of King Jamshyd’s ancient magic,
mentioning later delights as compensatory; in
the same manner the long-dead singer, David,
is mentioned in conjunction with the nightin-
gale’s song. (2) A muezzin is the Moham-
medan crier who proclaims from a minaret
the summons to prayer E.A.R.M.: The
buyer for his £3OOO acquired the lease, license
and goodwill of the hotel. As lessee he has to
pay the weekly rental. When the lease runs
out he has, in the absence of special provision,
no claim against the original holder for com-
pensation in the event of non-renewal... .H.R.:
The trouble could be caused by fowl ticks or
chicken head lice, or by the fowls being too
crowded. If fowl ticks are present, they may
be checked by several sprayings of the houses
or roosting-places with kerosene emulsion. If
head lice are found on the head or under the
throat, a light application of olive oil to these
parts will eradicate them W. 1.: Write Angus
and Robertson, Sydney E.M.D.: No, the
only way to find the latitude and longitude of
any place is by astronomical observation....
W.D.8.: Case doesn’t seem to be worth
fighting, and failure would add to your present
embarrassments F.J.L.: The procedure is
by deed poll and the change is binding from
the date of registration F.H.S.: (1) No
physical ill-effects, but introspection and
worry may produce minor nervous upsets. (2)
Give more explicit details as to your require-
ments... .E.W.: Get in touch with A. L.
Yuille, Australian Jockey Club, 6 Bligh-street,
Sydney... .J.S.: Write Secretary, Invalid and
Old Age Pensions Department, Sydney... .L. 8.:
Surry Hills is the name given to a portion of
the Sydney city area. The district, save as it
constitutes an electorate which extends well be-
yond what is usually understood as Surry Hills,
has no defined boundaries, but may be said cer-
tainly to include the area within Elizabeth and
Chalmers streets on the west, Campbell-street
on the north, Flinders and Dowling streets on
the east and Cleveland-street on the south....
AJ.P.: Price of Don’t Believe It, Says the
Doctor is 9s. 6d F.A.8.: (1) No more
than they would be likely to fetch at auction
in an art-dealer’s sale: they have value only to
a collector desiring to complete a series. Myles
Birket Foster lived from 1825 to 1899, and was
a very prolific worker; there is no scarcity
of work of such recent date. (2) The name
does not appear in any of the standard lists
of artists... .A.L.H.: Send your name and
address and full particulars will be posted....
L.J.H.: White Horse Distilleries, 120 St. Vin-
cent-street, Glasgow; James Martin and Cos.,
14 Quality-street, Leith; John Campbell and
Son, 85 Queen-street, Glasgow; The Distillers
Cos., 12 Torphicen-street, Edinburgh; John
Walker and Sons, John Finnie-street, Kilmar-
nock—all Scotland. Robert McNish and Cos.,
Grand Buildings, Trafalgar-square, W.C.2;
Marshall and Marshall, 16 Hyde-street, W.C.I;
Wm. Teacher and Sons, 32-33 Cowcross-street,
E.C.I; James Buchanan and Cos., 26 Holborn.
E.C.I; Bulloch, Lade and Cos., 2 Pall Mall
East, S.W.I; John Dewar and Sons, Waterloo
Bridge, S.E.I; Booth’s Distilleries, 83 Turn-
mill-street, E.C.I; Findlater, Mackie, Todd and
Cos., London Bridge, S.E.I; W. and A. Gilbey,
Moreland-street, E.C.I; McDonald, Greenlees,
2 Pall Mall East, S.W.l—all London... .A.K.:
Passionfruit do not mature immediately they are
fully developed. They rapidly attain a large
size after blossoming, but from three to four
and a half months must elapse (depending on
temperatures) from blossom-time to maturity.
H.B.K.: The Dutch Douglas airliner flown
by Parmentier and Moll in the Centenary Air
Race crashed in the Syrian desert December
21, 1934, while outward bound from Holland
on its next service trip to the Dutch East
Indies. Four of the crew and three passengers
were burnt to death. Parmentier and Moll
had remained in Holland... .A.E.8.: Slavery
was first introduced into the American Colonies
in August, 1619, when 20 African negroes were
landed at Jamestown, Virginia, from a Dutch
ship. It was abolished in the United States by the
adoption of the 13th Amendment to the Con-
stitution, proclaimed December 18, 1865. Some
3,120,000 slaves in certain areas had already
been freed by Lincoln’s Emancipation Pro-
clamation of January 1, 1863... .M.E.: The
first electrocution for crime in the United
States took place August 6, 1890, at Auburn
State Prison, New York State, when William
Kemmler was executed for the murder of
Matilda Ziegler... .(Many others mailed.)


3k
\
GROUND
ENGINEERS
Australia to-day needs trained Aircraftsmen
more than ever before.
New Air Lines require more ground staff to keep
their ’planes in constant service.
Study NOW! It is your opportunity for a sound
future profession.
CAVIATION SCHOOLS
WEMBLEY HOUSE, RAILWAY SQ., SYDNEY
WRITE FOR PARTICULARS NCS W /
You can have
Prior.
•of Chevrolet’s Quality, Safety, Economy & Performance
Only by seeing this beautiful Chevrolet, by sitting in
its comfortable driving seat, by controlling its easy,
effortless 6-cylinder over-head valve engine, can it really
be proved to you that what we say about Chevrolet is
true. That is why we are offering you this FREE 5
MILE DRIVE. We shall be ready at any time to give
you, without obligation, thfe free trial over any road
you wish to choose. Fill in the coupon below and
arrange for your FREE TRIAL of the best value-for-
money car in Australia.
Look at these Chevrolet features and then look at
the prices! Unisteel “Turret” Top Body by Holden
Permanently silent and safe: 25% stronger . . . Lower
overall height more headroom, legroom and elbow-
room . . . Synchro-mesh gears . . . Multi-adjustment
front seat . . . Independent Front Wheel springing and
Super-safe shockless steering (on the Master de Luxe)
Exclusive Holden, figure-conforming “Relax-o-form”
V D B 1 H?
X aI Mm Em
5 mile drive
upholstery . . . Perfected, double articulated Hydraulic
Brakes . . . Faster acceleration . . . Giant Luggage
Trunk “that takes the lot” . . . Hypoid rear axle
giving lower floor without high tunnel . . . overhead
valve six cylinder economical yet powerful (85 h.p.)
engine.
GENERAL MOTORS-HOLDEN’S LTD.
CHEVROLET Standard Prices.
Commercial
Roadster £290
Sports Roadster £305
Tourer £315
Business Coupe .. £325
Sports Coupe .... £335
Sedan £345
AH prices include Safety Glass Windscreen and Side Windows.
All prices plus Sales Tax.
Every model available under the easy and confidential
G.M.A.C. terms plan.
Your Money Goes Farther in a General Motors’ Car
THE 1937 “AIR CHIEF” CAR RADIO, specially
designed for Chevrolet, has controls to match the
instrument panel. Two models are available. The
Two-Unit Set, with separate receiver unit and 8-inch
dynamic speaker and the Single Unit Set which com-
pactly houses both receiver and speaker. The “Air
Chief” with six valves gives performance equal to the
best home radio. A demonstration will be gladly given.
SEND THIS COUPON TO YOUR
LOCAL CHEVROLET DEALER.
Please arrange to give me a tree 5 mile Trial of the
New Chevrolet. It is understood that I will not be
placed under any obligation to buy.
NAME PHONE No
ADDRESS C 498-27
Answers to Correspondents
No notice (except of a hostile character) will
be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on
the MS. No liability is undertaken re con-
tributions voluntarily submitted; and no MS.
will be returned unless stamps accompany.
E.G.: A trifle too uproarious T.M.: “The
Hard Luck Cocky” came nearest, but his ill-
fortune clung to him... .Z.V.W.: We haven t
noticed “the painful dearth of merriment”
which you deplore in the present generation....
H. 5.8.: Clever enough of its kind, but too
ornate and intricate for our taste... .W.G.:
No, we can’t use them... .D.T.: Better than
most of what is written on the subject, but it’s
sadly belated F.McC.: Not enough in this
one, and a rhyme like “Bega-eager” is a little
grating T.A.S.: What, another buckjumper!
There’s no stall for him here... .C.C.:
Webster gives both “codling” and “codlin” for
the fruit-devouring moth, putting the former
first. But there seems to be no dictionary
authority for spelling the “chantey” which
seamen raise (or used to) with an initial “5”....
A.G.: It raised the ghost of a smile 0n1y....
L.P.C.: No swing in them; the ideas are con-
ventional, and the images have no freshness or
originality... .H.E.L.: “Fine-climb,” “gorge-
ford,” “one-sponge”—is your ear atrophied?
A.F.H.: The second is homeward-bound, too.
G.J.: Where have you failed? Well, it’s
a little too confused and obscure, but not with-
out some good lines D.G.: Dialogue sound,
but yam doesn’t quite make it... .8.L.L.: That
penetrating study in hypocrisy deserved a
stronger finish 0.L.: You drew a good
character and then made him do the impossible.
—E.W.G.: Cat-woman has been met before,
but only after a heavy attack of beer-and-
lobster E.A.S.: Humor too conventional....
R.C.H.McK.: Well enough done, but we’ve
read about that black-magic stuff so often....
Shade: Your well-limned characters do only
things that old melodramas hackneyed....
E.E.S.: It fails to satisfy, but not by much....
R.H.: Callow people doing unreal things....
A.L.P.: Nothing in it....E.5.: Some keen
observation there, but it hardly makes a story.
—C.J.T.: Sketch very slight... .R.H.A.: Just
a reminiscence, though atmosphere is fautless
and style g00d.... J.W.: A queer mixture of
ugliness and beauty... .F.M.: As uninteresting
as a mother-in-law’s peck... .R.L.: “He
swooped on her white beauty, his eyes bristling
with passion.” And doubtless the hair on his
chest gleamed with fire... .R.P.: Welcome to
the first drink-sodden island beachcomber in
fiction who wasn’t trying to forget a woman!
—B.L.K.: Harrowing tale of the lay-
preacher’s inadvertent taking of a rum-punch
made the Religious Editor sob into his beer.
—W.R. (Eng.): Unsuitable for us M.T.:
Some fair humor, but you offer no new angle
on the old snide-mine theme... .N.K.: More
suitable for a daily... .M.F.-P.: Rather,
magazinish, but you might place “Mate” or
“Mr. Steevens” elsewhere... .8.W.: Plot too
anaemic... .J.N.: Style worthy of a better story.
—N.C.: Some humor, but that ground’s been
ploughed by many a pen....G.R.: Vague
speculations as to mysterious deaths don’t
make satisfactory stories... .L. de G.: No
space for “The Unknown Scribe” who went on
thrilling his public “while oft for food his
shrunken vitals cried” FJ.G.: “A Noc-
turne” plunged us into g100m... .A.S.: Never
mind; these Coronations only come once in a
while E. 8.: Right out of our line.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
L.H.: Fairly well drawn, but not much of
an idea G.R.: Scraggy lines and a dismal
jest... .E.M.: Not to our taste, but you might
place it elsewhere... .H.S.: Full of mistakes.
—R.A.S.: Study hard for the next five years.
—T.W.: Scarcely worth the trouble of setting
pen to paper J.C.: Send picture labelled
“Curse of Drink,” representing Australia in
grip of boa-constrictor, to nearest inebriates’
home L.M.P.: Looks to have been drawn
while the artist was engaged in a wrestling
match 8.C.: You’re short of ideas and too
heavy-handed with the pen... .R.C.W.: You
can take the large and battered gent, and his
freakish partner home N.L.: Here and there
it almost looks like a drawing; jest is feeble
E.M.A.: Pity you didn’t study The Bulletin
before sending them in S.R.: Better than
most first attempts; put in a term at an art
school P.T.: Inartistic corpse interred with
fitting solemnity T.K.: A lot of profitless
work to illustrate the week’s tamest jest....
W.Y.: Labored humor about the size of the
Prime Minister’s family D. 8.: Leave that
field to Oswald Pryor C.S.: Stiff head-
studies in faint pencil won’t open the cashbox.
J.M.B.: You must have picked up your
knowledge of anatomy from a study of rag
dolls S.N.: Too dim for reproduction....
A.H.G.: Not up to standard, but there is hope
for y0u....M.8.: All the figures are several
feet too 10ng... .F.R.: Cannot see it raising
a single laugh L.M.: “Hop” invented the
“Thought I had a stamp” gent, half a century
ago A.P.: Dad must have worn out no end
of boots on that persistent suitor C.M.:
Top marks for the signature; black looks for
the drawing H.N.: The youngster is still in
the copying stage; let’s see some of his original
work... .R.L.8.: Might have been carved out
of hardwood with a blunt penknife G.S.:
Helped to fill the basket.
A MIXED GRILL.
“Sailor Once”: “Finn’s” story of
Elia’s reputed screen descendant (B.
14/4/’37) reminds me of an old-time
naval man who had adopted all deceased
seafaring heroes for his family-tree, from
Drake down to Nelson. One night at
tah*2 the subject of the Royal George,
which sank with “twice four hundred
men,” came up for discussion. Nelson-
Drake preened himself and then chipped
in: “Admiral Kempenfeldt was an an-
cestor of mine.” The “doc.,” who had
the floor, eyed the interrupter savagely.
“Kempenfeldt,” he said crushingly, “was
never married!” Nelson-Drake after-
wards disowned that branch of his
family.
* * * *
“Uramao”: Kingman Reef, the second
hop in the Pan-American clipper’s flight
to Maoriland, was the scene of the wreck
of the Henry James in 1888, which led
to a voyage in an open boat without
parallel in Pacific sea stories. Captain
Donald McDonald, the mate of the
barque, with four other seamen, sailed
the ship’s cutter from Palmyra Island
(whither they went from the reef) to
Samoa, covering over 1600 miles in 19
days. They were reduced to such straits
that boots and the leather from the
telescope were eaten.
H= * * *
Pitcairn Island in the social news:
David Young, a direct descendant of Edward
Young, the second-last of the Bounty survivors,
is on his way from Pitcairn to London for
the Coronation. Edward Young, a midship-
man under Bligh, died in 1800; John Adams
(Alexander Smith) survived him 29 years.
Joan Nobbs, a descendant of Rev. G. H. Nobbs,
who went to Pitcairn in 1828 and married Sarah,
the daughter of Fletcher Christian, leader of
the mutineers, has become engaged to Richard
Ashburner, vice-principal of St. Andrew’s Col-
lege at Sydney Uni. and a 1928 Rhodes scholar.
The couple met at Norfolk Island when Ash-
burner went there to conduct, successfully, a
case for the young lady’s father, who is presi-
dent of the Advisory Council. Nobbs led the
Pitcairners to Norfolk Island in 1856; most of
them remained, but the Youngs returned
to Pitcairn.
* * * *
“Hasbeen”: What is claimed to be the
most formidable explosion ever engi-
neered and carried out in the Southern
Hemisphere has been fired at Portland
(M.L.). Thirty-one tons of blasting gela-
tine and gelignite was used, bringing
down approximately 400,000 tons of
hydraulic limestone, better known as
cement rock. Thirty-three holes, each 6in.
in diameter and ranging up to a depth
of 275 ft., were drilled ; it took a gang of
men seven days to load the holes with
the explosive.


'There newer was a set
'“ e^ULTI(nfITE
wm
w: ; toil
iFt
KSS&SS
mm
m
One of the handsome Ultimate cabinets. Electric
models are fitted with a magic eye as illustrated.
m
/
WO*'
»c»' c
. sfae \ an
VjW^%'* .° S \as * ot \ v° tV
e*P
ba*
rf* 4 *
A* v *
•\\\e*©
\&'*^ G 1\ VJ\V^ e
av e
\V©
A>/
v, a " eI ' 1
M\-P eC '°\”es e49e -\\
.- w ca " fe o <« ' b,^% ea ° '"
, seV en .r^ eS vas a *Jt ' oV>e
" V 3
a- "tr>o c °’
W 4 « V
\V''' >
. \>&\ * *
,vev
-:f ;5-*
'*.£•» rfs*
***>•
c ,V'" „
>| oU * 4 s° u
V e ‘ r v vA^
re*®*’
MAH THIS COUPON TODAY
►
Geo. Brown & Co. Ltd
267 CLARENCE ST., SYDNEY
’PHONE M 3437
PLEASE MAIL ME DIRECT
FULL DETAILS AND INFORMATION ON THE
COMPLETE RANGE OF ULTIMATE RECEIVERS
BOTH FOR BATTERY AND A.C. OPERATION.
I THUS INCUR NO OBLIGATION.
NAME
ADDRESS
Send to George Brown & Co. Ltd.,
267 Clarence Street, Sydney.
No. 16 of a series of articles on the great days of the Australian Ring.
There have been many references to
Mick Dooley in these articles. His
strong and weak points as a boxer, apart
from temperament, were concisely
summed up in a Bulletin report of a
night’s entertainment at Foley’s gym-
nasium, George-street, Sydney, published
on February 6, 1886.
“The set-to of the evening was by
Dooley and Nolan. The latter, a new
arrival, has a short neck, a bull chest
and an English reputation. After four
rounds with Dooley he had a cut lip, a
crimson-tinted nose and a colonial record
which he will not exhibit when on tour.
“Dooley will make a rattling boxer;
he has a good left hand and a long
reach. But his right is slow and falls
short occasionally. He throws chances
away through not following his left up
more quickly. Unless he is careful to
correct this error he will develop into a
one-handed fighter”—and he did. Mick
(Nick, really) had a wonderful left, but
the right was never of much use to him.
And, unfortunately for him, he was too
heavy for the middleweights and not
heavy enough for the big men, to whom,
as a rule, he had to concede two or three
stone. Withal, he was a nervous starter.,
and, as has been described already, Jack-
son, Slavin, Goddard and Choynski,
who were all without nerves, took pain-
ful and decisive advantage of this weak-
ness.
Champion at Last.
But nobody ever questioned Dooley’s
courage, and in spite of repeated lick-
ings he was always a favorite. When
he managed to survive the first three
rounds, he invariably gave the crowd a
good fight for its money. Moreover, it
was touch and go with Slavin in their
first contest, and many cool-headed spec-
tators of the second Dooley v. Goddard
affair always maintained that only a very
slow count saved Goddard.
When Jackson, Slavin and Goddard
were overseas Dooley became resident
heavyweight champion of Australia by
beating Tut Ryan on points. The fight
took place in Melbourne in June, 1894.
“Ryan,” says a chronicler, “had the ad-
vantage in age and condition, though the
lighter and shorter man. Dooley was a
hot favorite, but a couple of knockdowns
by Ryan in the eighth and ninth rounds
levelled things a bit. In the twelfth
round Dooley had the Victorian dead to
the world, but lost his opportunity. He
came out of the disturbance without a
mark, whereas Ryan’s head looked like
a badly-managed butcher’s shop.”
The title passed to Bill Doherty in
1899, in which year William twice
stopped the ageing Mick —in six rounds
and two rounds. Dooley regained it at
Fremantle in June, 1900, when he caused
Doherty to throw in the towel at the
end of the seventh round. About this
period the thing was going round and
round. Doherty would hold it for a
few 7 months, then Dooley and then lut
Ryan. Challenges from one to the other
splurged all over the sporting columns
of goldfields newspapers, and the pro-
prietors of one journal, who were South
Australians of Cornish descent, decided
to charge so much per inch for these
defiances. The formula ran something
like this:
Challenge to Box.
I challenge to box Bill Doherty [or Tut
Ryan, as the case might be] for £2OO a
side at the Town Hall or the Tivoli
Theatre, Kalgoorlie, on a date to be ar- .
ranged. Give or take 141 b. Man and
money at the Great Boulder Hotel, Mari-
tana-street, any day at 3 p.m. to 4 p.m.
Stuff up or shut up!
Mick Dooley.
It is doubtful whether poor Mick ever-
had £2OO in his life. He kept on fight-
ing till he was an old man as fighters go.
Like Doherty, he settled at Fremantle,
and there he died a few years ago.
Doherty, who has had a steady job on
the wharf for quarter of a century
(Dooley was that sad case a worn-out
pug without a settled calling),- was his
firm friend to the end.
Steve O'Donnell.
Steve O’Donnell was another nervous
fighter. An electrotyper by trade, he was
a handsome, well-built fellow, as straight
as a rush and with very gentlemanly
manners. And he was a polished boxer ;
next to Fitzsimmons, perhaps the best
of all Peter Jackson’s pupils. But,
almost without a peer in the gymnasium,
he was too highly strung for the rough
work of the ring. Like Dooley, he haci
to be on deck for two or three rounds
before he could get going properly, and,
as a rule, the other fellow wouldn’t
permit it.
In addition to his bouts with George
Seale, mentioned in the article on that
unsurpassed amateur, O’Donnell had a
few fights with heavyweights in Sydney
before he followed Jackson to the
U.S.A. in the early ’nineties. In one of
these he beat a fellow named Ned Ryan
in 10 rounds. The Americans formed a
very high opinion of him as boxer and
man, and gave him plenty of chances to
distinguish himself. He fought Peter
Maher several times, whipped Jake Kil-
rain twice, and had matches with Gho-
ynski, McCoy and other representative
thumpers. It is also on record that he
beat Slavin when the latter was knock-
ing round the U.S.A. in a somewhat
broken condition after the fearful hiding
administered to him by Peter Jackson,
and stoically borne.
O’Donnell challenged Corbett, then
champion, for £2OOO a side. By this time
he had made so many influential friends
that he could have got the money without
difficulty. He put on the gloves with
Corbett many times, but not in the ring:
Corbett persuaded him to tour the U.S.A.
with him in a show the champion was
running.
Partly through Corbett’s influence,
O’Donnell was appointed boxing in-
structor to a gilded New York club, the
New Manhattan. He made a brief return
to the ring a couple of years later, but
settled down as an instructor, and in the
course of years has no doubt taught
Americans how to beat Australians. For,
as was here pointed out in the account of
the Leto-Blatch match, the modern
American pug boxes in the. old Austra-
lian style, while the modern Australian
boxer —but the painful subject will be
dealt with in a future article.
McCarthy and Smith.
The tradition has come down from the
late ’eighties that the best fight ever seen
in Sydney was fought for a pound or two
by Billy McCarthy (or McCarty) and
Billy Smith in the cellar of Foley s White
Horse Hotel. McCarthy won —he knocked
the other Billy out in the eleventh round.
Both men went to California, and by their
conduct in and out of the ring helped to
overcome a local prejudice against Aus-
tralians which had lingered since the da}-
of the Forty-niners and the “Sydney
ducks” mentioned by Bret Harte.
They were both middleweights. In
Sydney, as has been told, McCarthy was
hard put to it to stay six rounds with
George Seale. He was a good man all
the same, a busy glove-thrower alwa}>
and splendidly game ; and he was actu-
ally the first native-born Australian to
figure in a match for a world champion
ship.
McCarthy fought the first Jack Demp-
sey in January, 1890, and was beats...
after what was described as “a tremen-
dous fight.” He, however, had the satis-
faction of knocking out La Blanche, the
conqueror of Dempsey, after a savage
fight, and he went nine rounds with Fitz-


(bjjmm/.niofi -top
-YAVI*
h
L
Tttiwit
jplNf
-•
1 J' '
This land of countless attractions awaits you—<
ancient temples beautiful scenery native
customs and colourful bazaars. Your luxury
liner visits many interesting ports along the
smooth water route. Life on board is pleasant.
Spacious decks, restful lounges, a tiled swim-
ming pool, and talking picture equipment.
At your request, we shall be pleased
to forward Folder No. 61.
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD.
7 BRIDGE ST., SYDNEY TELEPHONE 87901
Australia 3 s Leading Financial Journal,
May Issue Now on Sale.
GOLD—DOLLARS—STERLING
OUTLOOK FOR COMMODITY PRICES
AUSTRALIAN PROSPECTS
PRICE 21- PER COPY, OR £l/2/6 PER ANNUM POSTED.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., 252 George Street, Sydney, and all States.
BILLABONG
AUTO-
OILED
ENCASED
GEARED
WINDMILLS
BUILT TO WITHSTAND THE
ROUGHEST STORM
SENSITIVE TO THE SLIGHTEST BREEZE
EMBODIES ALL THE LATEST IMPROVEMENTS IN WINDMILL CONSTRUCTION
WRITE FOR ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES.
%
fd
L.TED-
391-403 BOURKE STREET,
MELBOURNE, C.l,
and at
324-330 PITT ST., SYDNEY.
simmons, which was more than any
American could do until the match at
Carson City, March 17, 1897, in which
Corbett was knocked out by Fitz in 14
rounds, and more than Ruhlin and
Sharkey did in other years.
During the ’nineties McCarthy went
about the world fighting, and always
save a good account of himself- When
half-blind and broken-knuckled, he re-
tired from the ring and settled for a time
at Galveston, Texas. He was thanked by
the authorities for saving life during great
floods which desolated that place.
McCarthy returned to Sydney and died
here. Smith remained in California, where
Bill Squires—as he relates in his reminis-
cences which the Brisbane “Courier-
Mail” has been publishing —met him in
1907 on Bill’s luckless expedition in quest
of the heavyweight championship. Smith
had then abandoned the ring and was
keeping a roadhouse in a neighborhood
populated largely by Mexicans; showing
Bill round his pub he laughingly pointed
to a huge pistol, hung up conspicuously
in the bar to warn quarrelsome greasers
not to go too far. His reputation on the
Pacific Slope was that of a fighter who
would take on anyone, whatever his
weight.
When Joe Goddard was in San Fran-
cisco in 1892 and had polished off the
gigantic McAuliffe, Billy Smith was the
man next chosen by Californians to meet
the huge invader ; and he put up a better
fight than McAuliffe did. It was stopped
in the eighth round, and the referee re-
fused to give a decision. Another fierce
affair in which Smith was engaged went
32 rounds. The other man was Dave
Flaherty, and they fought with skin
gloves for £lOO a side and the “house.”
Smith the winner.
Always “Australian Billy Smith” to the
San Franciscans, McCarthy’s old oppo-
nent trained Tom Sharkey for the fight
with Fitzsimmons at ’Frisco in 1896
which Fitz was alleged to have lost on a
foul. The referee was the notorious gun-
man Wyatt Earp (incidentally, the name
given to the ship which is taking Lincoln
Ellsworth to the Antarctic), and the wild
proceedings were followed by a court
case. Disgusted at seeing a fellow-Anti-
podean robbed, Smith gave evidence for
Fitzsimmons, saying, among other things,
that Sharkey had told him after the fight
that Fitz could beat Corbett in a couple
of rounds —“he hits like the kick of a
mule.”
Sharkey bore no malice. In a news-
paper article written by or “ghosted” for
him a year or so ago, he admitted that
what he had learnt from “Australian
Billy Smith,” his trainer and coach, had
helped him greatly in his ring career.
Smith it was who taught him his dead-
liest punch, a right over the heart.
Smith died in California two or three
years ago.
Billy Edwards.
There was another Billy Smith at
’Frisco in the ’nineties —“Mysterious Billy
Smith.” He was so-called not only to
distinguish him from the Australian
middleweight, but because of his odd
habits. A wily welterweight who claimed
the world championship after he had
beaten bne Danny Needham in 1892 (the
Australian George Dawson, a lightweight,
also licked Needham), he was addicted to
absenting himself from the ring for long
periods, and returning from unknown
destinations with new tricks. Once he
came back sporting a beard which was
all hard bristles. This ornament, trimmed
to a point, he carried into the ring and
used for eye-gouging purposes in close
work. When this dodge had served its
turn he had others.
But he was a very fine boxer, and
in the course of eight years he lost only
one decision —to Tommy Ryan, who
claimed to be champion middleweight. It
was reserved for an Australian to give
him his hardest scrap, which took place
at New York in 1899. The Australian
was Billy Edwards, of Melbourne, known
there as “the sewerage champion.” An
old record says:
“The gamest, sturdiest and best pug
Australia has sent abroad for a long
time, Billy Edwards, of Melbourne, was
beaten on Jan. 24 by that cyclonic and
apparently invincible boxer Mysterious
Billy Smith. The pair started in at a
furious clip, and Edwards kept it up with
such earnestness that not a few thought
Smith would meet his Waterloo. He had
opened up roughly and introduced some
questionable work. Edwards showed
himself equally conversant with queer
manoeuvres, and it was give-and-take on
this score all through. The Australian
was often cautioned by the referee. Smith,
for his part, never lost an opportunity to
get in a crooked punch. Edwards dis-
played wonderful strength, toughness and
recuperative force. But in the fourteenth
round Smith rushed in with a heavy left
to the wind and a right on the jaw, and
with these blows ended one of the hardest
and fiercest contests ever seen in New
York or anywhere else.”
The poor “sewerage champion” was
never much good afterwards.
"Starlight."
The black ship’s cook who called him-
self “Starlight” is heard of now and then
in Melbourne —generally as a hospital
case, unfortunately. The Game knew
him as an interesting character for the
best part of 30 years. He boxed Fitz-
simmons in 1888 and Dave Smith in 1909.
In the meantime he fought Chrisp, who
flourished towards the end of last cen-
tury, for the heavyweight championship
of England, and, although fully 20 years
younger than the much-heavier white,
lasted 12 rounds.
It might be said that Starlight met the
best middleweights of two generations,
and none of them found him easy. He
went nine rounds with Fitz, seven rounds
with Creedon and eight rounds with Jim
Hall; in a return match, however, Hall
knocked him out in four rounds.
But “Star” was not a hero to sporting
writers of the period. Some of the young
fellows especially thought him flash, and
loved to take a rise out of him in print.
Gleefully they recorded that a promoter
had introduced him to the populace as
“the colored alligator,” and when he re-
turned to Melbourne after his really ex-
cellent showing against Chrisp one noted
bitterly that he “had his pants turned up”
and posed as “English to the fingertips.”
He was alleged to have said that “de
people here doan’t know dey are alive.
In dear old Londing one meets a diffrent
clawss altogedder, and one wondahs how
de poah devils in de kawlinies ex-ist.
Went to de theatre de odder night. What
sort o’ show am dey givin’ us? Shoo, no
clawss at all. Why, at de op’ra in Lon-
ding de actors would have been pelted
with fried fish and pertaters, Ah tell yuh.
Shoo, no clawss at all.”
Another monologue alleged to have
been spoken to an admiring circle in Mel-
bourne :
“Dis country’s rawten ; dat’s what it
is—rawten. If yuh have a win and a
fellah wins a fiver he don’t know yuh—
keeps away from yuh. But if he loses
five bawb, he’ll soon find yuh and let
yuh know all about it. In England, if a
man’s a gemman and keeps hisself re-
spectable he shakes hands with lawds
and docks, and if dey have a win dey
give yuh a hundred or two. Look at
Petah Jackson —shook hands with de
Prince of Wales. And Ah’m as good in
my clawss as Petah is in his. No, Ah tell
yuh, dis country’s rawten.”
White Australia feeling, rather keen in
those days, might have had something to
do with these gibes at “Starlight.” His
pal Irving Sayles, the comedian, disarmed
it as far as he was concerned, rather
neatly. “What am Ah going to do when
dey get a White Australia?” he asked in
one of his acts. “Me, Ah’m going back
to ma own country. Yes, sah, ma own
country. Scotland for ever!”
“Starlight” fought heavyweights in
Australia as well as England. Among
them were Bill Doherty (although
Doherty might have trained down to
middleweight then), Bill Squires and Bill
Lang. Doherty beat him in 12 rounds,
Squires in four rounds (on a foul) and
three rounds ; his bout with Lang, which
lasted five rounds, was declared a draw.
Yet “Starlight” could always box at the
old middleweight limit, list. 41b. No
champion, but very clever and game, and
many a second-rater wore himself out
trying to land on “Star’s” old bald bob-
bing head.


“Stoneleigh”: Henry Parkes, 41 years
after his death, is to have a monument
erected to him at his birthplace at Canley,
and the “S. M. Herald,”
bespeaking Australian support for the
subscription list, has published a column
of eulogy about the. man who loomed so
large in N. S. Wales politics for half his
lifetime. “Great statesman,” “robust
patriot,” “orator,” “writer;” “thinker,”
“poet” are among the flowers in the
wreath. I don’t question Parkes’s title to
the grateful remembrance of posterity
on any of the first five counts, but if a
man can be described as a poet it is
reasonable to assume some of his verse
will survive him. I cannot find Parkes
in any anthology, and the only scrap of
his lyrical output that I have ever heard
quoted ran:
I would not change my ragged Jane
For all the peacock ladies going;
She knows the way to banish pain—
What she don’t know is not worth knowing.
If that is a fair sample, it is to be hoped
that the; projected memorial will omit
any reference to Parkes’s poetical efforts.
•J: *l’
“Sikes”: Most people know that sen-
tence of imprisonment for life, passed
on a murderer, doesn’t mean quite what
it says; if the “lifer” survives, t for 15
years or a bit more and his conduct is
exemplary he is pretty certain to regain
his freedom. Even imprisonment for the
term of the criminal’s “natural life” is
liable to be less sweeping than it sounds ;
no Government can bind its successors
not to review such a sentence. An appeal
has been made in Sydney for clemency to
be extended to a murderer serving a
natural-life term. The Minister con-
cerned shook his head, for the crime
was a particularly> revolting one, even
though it was certified that the convict
had become a reformed character and
claimed that his 27 years in Parramatta
gaol was a long-distance record, so to
speak. I rather doubt the last.
$ * * * i
“Scorpio”: The witness who regarded
his wife’s sister’s gentleman friend as a
“sort of brother-in-law” (B. 21/4/’37) re-
minds me of a case heard recently in a
Bananaland court. A husband, sum-
moned by his wife for arrears of main-
tenance, strongly objected to paying up
on the ground that the lady had taken
unto herself another man. He referred
to the alleged usurper as “my husband-
in-law.”
t'fi i|:
“Walkabout”: The most potent home-
made brew I ever sampled was at an out-
back shanty in s.-w. Queensland. A
camel team, loaded with supplies for the
annual races, was held up by wet weather,
and as a result a few of us were com-
pelled after the races to recuperate c;r
sauce or fruit salts. After a couple of
days’ torture one bright spirit, by pour-
ing a couple of buckets of boiling water
into each of three empty rum casks, was
able to hand out nips with a flavor, at
least. But the stuff hadn’t enough sting
for one of the crowd and, unknown to
us, he added a couple of bottles of
metho. to the last of the three casks.
That tore it! There were fights galore ;
our black-tracker ran amuck after a
couple of nips and knocked his boss out
for the count with a pair of handcuffs,
and the day the ’Ghans arrived the pub
cat, after one sniff of the. then empty
third cask, shaped up to a bull camel.
That night bottled beer tasted like water
in comparison.
* * $
“Coupeau”: When Poincare said
France was heading to decadence
through alcohol (B. 28/4/’37) he referred
not to wine but to the cheap and poison-
ous raw brandy which for years has been
the favorite tipple of the “lower classes”
in the big cities. This stuff is the staple
drink in the low-class brasseries, where
there is little demand for the wine of
the country. We see. much the same
thing in wine bars of the lower order.
Many customers of these never dream of
touching a light beverage wine, but fuddle
themselves on heavily fortified stuff.
* * * *
“Ex-Mister”: Seasickness (B. 21/4/’37)
is something that defies generalisation.
I’ve seen the deck and engine-room
crowds of a 5000-ton steamer so wrecked
by seasickness during a Biscay blow, six
weeks out from Australia, that it became
a serious business to work the ship. I’ve
seen a square-rigger skipper just in from
a five months’ voyage to Mauritius and
back throw up all but his immortal soul
during a 20-minute run ashore in a
Customs launch in Hobson's Bay. I’ve
known several shipmasters simply forced
to leave the sea on account of seasick-
ness—Captain Vincent, for long Harbor-
“ Capri , t'only difference 'tween 'ee an' they goats be their parents knowed
they'd be goats.”
master at Melbourne, was one. of them.
And I’ve seen green boys and elderly
ladies, on their first voyage in open water,
completely unaffected by days of really
bad weather. Personally, I’ve never
known seasickness. If I had- suffered as
J’ve seen many suffer, I’d never have had
the pluck to sign, on again.
:|s * * * \
“Roisel”: Although ecclesiastical
authorities are not entitled to naval gun
salutes, the Pope is regarded as a foreign
temporal sovereign, and as such would be
accorded a salute should he ever
at or depart from any place within the
British Empire wherein the British Navy,
is represented by ships. This may be a
quite unnecessary provision in “Admir-
alty Instructions,”; but it explains why
Papal Nuncios and Internuncios, who
are diplomatic agents of his Holi-
ness, are also entitled to gun salutes;
these officials ranking as Ambassadors
and Ministers respectively. Papal Legates,
not being diplomatic envoys, are not
entitled to salutes.
“Oriel”: The announcement that six
Melbourne University professors have
turned from their educational activities
to frame a foreign policy for the Empire
and Australia (B. 28/4/’37) sets one
thinking of the historic “Three Tailors of
Tooley Street.” It is also a reminder that
when Cecil Rhodes drew up initial pro-
visions for the scholarships his wealth
was to endow at Oxford he expressly
stipulated that university dons were to
have no hand in the administration of the
fund. Nobody valued education more
highly than Rhodes, as shown by the
purposes to which he devoted the bulk of
his fortune, and apparently nobody set
less store on the business abilities of the
professional instructors of youth and
early manhood. Their cloistered lives,
he made no secret of his belief, utterly
unfitted them for the judicious handling
of huge sums of money and similar prob-
lems that must be entrusted to practical
men. Rhodes evidently knew Oxford
professors as well as, later, he was to
know Kimberley mineowners, Transvaal
Boers and Matabele chieftains.
* * * *
“Sailor Once”: According to the Syd-
ney “Sun,” A.B.C. officials regard Eng-
lish as spoken by King George V.
as the best standard to set for Australia,
Actually, the sovereign who died last
year had a somewhat throaty voice,
though throatiness was less marked in his
case than in that of his father. As regards
his pronunciation of the English language,
it was neither better nor worse than that
of the average naval officer, of whom he
remained a type right to the last. The
speech of the average n.o. is cultured,
and correct enough for ordinary pur-
poses ; but give, him a word at all out
of the ordinary and he does not pretend
to be an authority on its pronunciation,
* , „ * , T , . , *
Wanderer : Nude statues ( .
*,B/4/37). A striking life-size one o a
woman in marble stands on a 1011. higi
cement base in dense bush country along
the Lake sCreek-roa.d, about five miles
from Rockhampton (Q.). Erected nearly
60 years ago by a Frenchman, Thozet,
who settled on a Tarrn thepe, it stood in
the centre of an artificial lake ' wttlr a
beautiful garden around it. When the
Thozets died the farm was sold and sup-
divided and the home was removed: The
garden is now smothered with bush, the
lake has disappeared and the statue is all
that remains. Suggestions have been
made that it would be an ornament to
the Rockhampton Botanic Gardens, but
the aldermen, jib at the expense of
removing it.
* , *.■ *• *
“Jobber”: A- complaint has been made
(B. 24/3/’37) that Australia should send
more good films overseas. Well, the
Katoomba Council is doing its little bit
in this direction by dispatching 10 copies
of a film..to be-shpwn abroad. The pic-
ture was made by Frank Hurley, which
is sufficient guarantee of its quality.
Called “Treasures of Katoomba,” it
shows the Blue Mountain scenery woven
round- a neat little story —or the other
way about, if you prefer it.
. * * **
“Neptuna”: This recalls a Sydney sen-
sation of a year or two ago. W. R.
Carpenter and Co.’s motor vessel Rabaul
was in New Caledonia recently when a
passenger fishing from the ship caught a
large shark. While the monster was
being heaved tail-first up the ship’s side
it disgorged a human head, arm and leg.
The grisly remains were identified by
the local authorities as those of a half-
caste who had gone fishing eight days
before and been posted as missing.
*‘* ❖ ❖
“Verri”: Whatever the ghosts of the
old sundowners may think about it, the
swag has become fashionable. Going
into the cabin on a big liner in which
three women bound for the Coronation
were settling their gear I noticed that
each included in her luggage, a glorified
swag. It seemed ideal for life in the re-
stricted space of even a large cabin. It
could be stowed in a rack, opened full
length on a bunk, stood upright in a
corner, and in addition it gave an all-
over view of its contents to the seeker
after any article. All three women were
hardened travellers who had proved the
use and handiness of the humble swag.
* * * *
“Lower Tops’!”: There is no doubt
that 78,600 guilders were aboard the
Dutch ship Der Vergulden Draeck when
she was wrecked on the Westralian coast
in 1656 (B. 21/4/’37). In the following
three years no fewer than three Dutch
ships were dispatched to try to locate the
treasure or to find what happened to the
69 survivors left on the beach, but though
the crews of each vessel, at considerable
loss of life, made difficult landings and
fired off cannons along the coast down
to Rottnest Island, not one trace of
treasure or survivor was ever found. Nor
has one been since, unless a skeleton
discovered in 1931 beside several seven-
teenth-century coins near the mouth of
the Moore River, about 60 miles from
the wreck, is a link with this bygone
tragedy.
* * * *
“Twenty-seven”: When ancient canine
breeds are under discussion I suggest
that the Saluki has an even longer pedi-
gree than the Ibiza of the Balearic Isles
(8.-14/4/’37). The animal depicted in
the Pharaohs’ tombs is undoubtedly the
:Hound.of the, Desert or the greyhound,
and the'Afghan hound is another that cap
.claim an antiqbity.equal at least to the
.Ibiza. There is no record that tfie
Romans ever imported dogs from the
Balearic Islands, but in the army there
was always a place for the Balearic bow-
men or slingers, who were famed for
their deadly efficiency.
V * . * *
“Kumusi”: Reference to Whitten Bros.’
“schooner” which used to carry supplies
to the Papuan gold-
fields of the north-
east (B. 28/4/’37) re-
minds me that the
craft was a small
steamer which, as the
President, held the
blue ribbon of the
east coast for donkey’s
years. The northern
limit of her run- was-
the Mamba. River,
four miles south of
the German boun-
dary, and not Mitre
Rock, which is 12
miles from it. The
old wooden craft had
done long service as a
Br i sbane excursion
steamer before com-
ing to Papua, and
when I first met her
some 35 years ago was
in her dotage. She
was as loose as a
basket, and in a sea-
way one had to be
careful, if barefooted,
not to have a toe
nipped in the opening
deck steams. She car-
ried a special detail of darkies to pump
her. One night when at the usual anchor-
age at Ussi-Ussi, between Samarai and
Cape Nelson, these, went to sleep. For-
tunately someone woke in time to find
the water lapping the deck beams and the
craft resting softly on the coral sand
bottom. There were 20 fathoms within
a few yards, but Allah had been merciful.
**- * *
“Centurion”: Having adopted a new
machine-gun, the British War Office is
■now re-equipping its field artillery. In
future an artillery brigade will consist of
four batteries armed with a gun-howitzer,
instead of three batteries with
field-guns and one of 4.5 howitzers. The
new-weapon will be of slightly larger
calibre than the 3.3 in. field-gun; will fire
a heavier shell and will have a much
longer range than either the field-gun or
the 4.5 howitzer, which range about
10,000 and 6500 yards in the latest
patterns. Field brigades will now be
uniform in formation, using only one
type of ammunition and calling for only
one method of training.
* * * *
“Edinburgh”: The intention of the
Tristan da Cunhans is not, as stated by
“Hesper” (B. 21 /4/’37),-. to remove en
masse to Inaccessible Island, 25 miles dis-
tant, but to grow and store their crops
there free from the depredations of rats.
For this purpose, an appeal was launched
in London recently for funds to purchase
a schooner, the frail craft at present in
use being quite unsafe for keeping up
communication. Since then it has been
objected that the Inaccessible group is
ravaged by winter gales and surrounded
by tremendous ocean depths, and tha
there is not only no anchorage but no
shelter of any sort whatsoever. London
is likely to “button-up” on the streng
of this report.
CORONATION CHANTEY.
Oh, where be you going this fine warm day?
Oh, where be you going this month of May?
And weigh the anchor G!
Oh, I be going to London town,
Where the lords and ladies go up and down,
To see the King when he takes the crown,
And weigh tha anchor O!
It be ten thousand miles and more
From farthest shore to farthest shore,
And weigh the anchor O!
And if every mile of the miles was three,
I’d count my pennies, how many they be,
And make this journey across the sea,
And weigh the anchor O !
Will you see the lords and the bishops all?
The castle gates and the castle wall?'
And weigh the anchor O!
Aye, and the Houses of Parliament,
And the Duke of Gloucester, the Duke of Kent,
I’ll see them all ere my money be spent,
And weigh the anchor O!
Will you see the lions a-waiting there,
When you walk abroad in Trafalgar-square?
And weigh the anchor O!
Aye, I shall see, when I walk abroad,
Every gadget and every gaud,
From Downing-street to Madame Tussaud,
And weigh the anchor O!
Will the bagpipes drone, will the bagpipes
squeal?
Aye, and the organs all will peal,
And weigh the anchor O!
And the bells will chime and the drums will
beat,
And the flags will fly in the crowded street,
And I’ll hear the drum of the horses’ feet,
And weigh the anchor O!
When all is over and all is done,
Your purse will be thin and your money be
gone,
And weigh the anchor O!
Aye, poverty-poor in pence I’ll be,
But rolling-wealthy in memory,
When I come back from over the sea,
And weigh the anchor O!
QUEENSLAND.
L. M. D. O’NEIL.


muaianiT
DC
EDI
jUEDIED
IICUt
eddo
mocru
ÜBEUDI
Fi'K
ILbmkS
V,
D.J.SMYTH
D.D.S.
Office Hours -9tol-2t05.
inuo
x
zjlpfl
rnirw
linrnrjnjrj
saiUL^
ijiniiiH=S3l
nflniiiDiczlinp
nmnniniiEj
innnmo jeez
®nnnn
pii
imr
out of 5
Get acquainted with
your dentist
To wait until you have a tooth-
ache before consulting your dentist
is like locking the door after the
horse is stolen. Your dentist is
interested in preventing trouble
in your mouth. Visit him at least
twice a year and protect your
teeth and health!
YOUR own dentist will tell you that four
people out of five past the age of forty
are doomed, through carelessness, to contract
Pyorrhea, the dread disease of the gums
that causes rheumatism, loss of teeth and
general ill-health.
If you have Pyorrhea see your dentist at
once and follow his advice carefully. The
modern dentist has plenty of experience in
Pyorrhea, for more than half of the losses of
adult teeth are due to this stealthy gum
disease.
And in your home brush your teeth and
massage your gums with Forhan’s. It is a
scientific dentifrice, the formula of R. J.
Forhan, D.D.S. It contains Forhan’s
Pyorrhea Astringent, which thousands of
dentists use in the treatment of Pyorrhea.
If used in time and used consistently,
Forhan’s will prevent Pyorrhea, or, in co-
operation with your dentist, will check its
progress.
Get a tube of Forhan’s to-day. You can
make no finer investment in the health of
your mouth and the safety of your teeth.
Price 2/-; extra-large tube 3/-.
Australasian Agents:
The Sheldon Drug Co. Pty., Ltd., Sydney.
■/Hil
m WI-THsli
: f?Q FcMwl Lr AnQ-B-r.'-la
siseAsMoSHM
mm
PRE PAR E Q=£o.E=2,
P R ESC m *T\OH£Qf~TM
mmm:
Bmmmssm.
Forhan’s
for the gums
MORE THAN A TOOTHPASTE IT PREVENTS PYORRHEA
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK’S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
n
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please , post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 301-.)
X
Cfr o^ v
w «. cjfT
<*'
X?
&
*s£&&*
«*\t^
<*:
x
9
«<'
Jf-»
0,0
0^
Sr
a)
\\ e
*'■
apt ~ - ~••• ..-
•*. • V


8
I
m
m
M
*S
Illustrating Model
At any of the Tasma dealers (there is one in
your town or suburb) you can see and hear
the new Tasma “435” De Luxe DUAL WAVE
RECEIVER —a Tasma masterpiece which will
give world-wide reception of the purest tone and
clarity, no matter in what location you live.
Offered in the beautiful Homestead” Cabinet
(as illustrated), this receiver sets an
new standard of value and performance in
dual wave equipment. In addition to the
broadcast band, all overseas stations from 16
to 50 metres can now be easily tuned.
PRICE:
(Including all.new features as listed)
28 Gns
There is a Tasma
Dealer in your district;
ask him for details of
any of the Tasma
De Luxe Receivers.
Prices from 15 Gns.
to 56 Gns.
note these exclusive
• SUPER-SIZE 20-INCH EDGELIT GLASS DIAL!
Each scale is acid-etched into the glass, colour-
filled and floodlit. In addition to the calibrated
short-wave scale (on dual wave sets only) ALL
THE 103 AUSTRALIAN STATIONS are indi-
cated with hair-line accuracy and unequalled
brilliant visibility.
• TWO SEPARATE AND DIFFERENTLY
COLOURED TUNING SCALES are fitted to
Dual Wave Dials. The colour of the lighting
changes when you switch from broadcast to
short wave, or vice versa. Only ONE scale is
visible at one time.
• EXTRA TUNING RANGE is now provided at
each end of the broadcast band—and the short-
wave band has been extended to tune from ! 6
to 50 metres
• FEATHERLIGHT RAPID-MOMENTUM HIGH-
SPEED TUNING CONTROL. The swiftest and
most accurate tufting equipment ever evolved.
The indicator can be swung completely round
the dial with one light flick of finger and
thumb—enabling instantaneous change from one
programme to another without “fiddling” or
fuss; yet so perfectly controlled that even the
most remote station can be tuned with micro-
meter accuracy,
m HERMETICALLY SEALED, DUST-PROOF AIR
TRIMMER CONDENSERS—NEW IMPROVED
FERRO-COIL—OPTIONAL AERIAL TAP and
VARIABLE SELECTIVITY ensure permanent
factory-perfect reprdduction even in the most
€/übfUt features .
difficult areas, and no matter how close the
Tasma owner may live to a powerful broad-
casting station. These vital features provide a
sure safeguard against background hiss, “jitter-
ing,” etc., give EXTRA DAYLIGHT RANGE
to the man in the country, and ensure REAL
HIGH FIDELITY RECEPTION of all stations.
m SPECIAL DIAL LIGHT SWITCH (battery and
vibrator sets only) which enables the dial light
lo be extinguished when the station has been
tuned in, thus reducing the drain on accumu-
lator. - ■
® ELECTRIC EYE (for visual tuning; on electric
sets only) is incorporated in the dial and can be
easily observed without taking up a position
directly in front of the set.
A EXTRA VOLUME! The new Tasma can be
tuned from the faintest whisper to full “dance
hall” volume without the slightest suspicion of
distortion or whistle. The TONE is so true and
flawless that the REALISM of Tasma reproduc-
tion creates almost the complete illusion that
the artists are in the room itself. AUTOMATIC
VOLUME CONTROL is an outstanding feature
of the new Tasma,
A And—OF COURSE!-—these sets, agairt embody
CONTINUOUSLY VARIABLE TONE CONTROL,
and AUTOMATIC VOLUME CONTROL has
been brought to a degree of perfection never
before achieved in receivers of any price
whatsoever.
Detail-Built RADIO
fd
VICTORIA: HARTLEYS PTY., LTD., 270
FLINDERS STREET, MELBOURNE.
John Hallway and Sons. 40 Armstrong Street
North , Ballarat. (Ballarat Distributors.)
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Oliver J. Nilsen & Co.,
Ltd., 49 King William Street, Adelaide.
TASMANIA: Noyes Bros. (Melb.) Pty., Ltd., 36
Argyle Street, Hobart; and 59 George
Street, Launceston.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Carlyle & Co.,
915-917 Hay Street, Perth.
QUEENSLAND: G. J. Grice, Ltd., 90 Queen
Street, Brisbane, and Branches at Rock-
hampton, Townsville, Cairns and Mackay.
DARLING DOWNS: Rosenstengels Pty., Ltd.,
Ruthven Street, Toowoomba.
NEW ZEALAND: New Zealand Electric Equipment, Ltd., Wakefield Chambers, Wellington, N.Z.
A Product of THOM AND SMITH. LIMITED, 29-39 Botany Road, Mascot.
