

EWCASTLE STEEL WORKS
AUSTRALIA
TEE RAILS
BRIDGE RAILS
FISHPLATES
BRIDGE AND
SLEEPER
PLATES
CHECKER PLATES
BEAMS
CHANNELS
SHEET PILING
ANGLES
TEES
SQUARES
ROUNDS
FLATS
OCTAGONS
ALLOY STEELS
PIG IRON
INGOTS
BLOOMS
BILLETS
SLABS
REINFORCING BARS
WIRE RODS
BENZOL
TAR
TOLUOL
CRUSHED SLAG
SOLVENT NAPHTHA
NAPHTHALENE
SULPHATE OF
AMMONIA
B.H.P. BLOWFLY OIL
FOUNDRY COKE
COAL
BUNKER COAL
HOUSEHOLD COAL
“Quality Products ”
All Made in Australia.
Hi
' V""' .
nhe BROKEN HILL
PROPRIETARY COMPANY LIMITED
Mine Owners, Ship Owners, Iron and Steel
Manufacturers and Colliery Proprietors
Offices:
MELBOURNE, SYDNEY, ADELAIDE, PERTH and LONDON
forks: Newcastle (N.S.W.), Iron Knob (S.A.), Devonport (Taw.), Broken Hill (N.S.W.)
li
Mi
m
SVft'-
w
irom
m
HI
Hi
mm
List of Manufactures
PLATES
amm
■
:
m
&
m
me SHOVEL
LOAD!NO 50 TON
QUARRY WAGGONS
mm
m
m Wm
J *
The Bulletin
The Lyons Peace Pact
Vol. 58.—N0. 2989.
Wednesday, May 26, 1937.
Price 6d.
ttegistered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper


DYMOCK’S LIBRARY CATALOGUE
with terms and particulars, will be sent
post free to any address on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
“The Block,”
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
mis
ILL 1
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE ,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CCT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
16pp. Illustrated Penmanship Prospectus explaining
your Muscular Movement System -of Writing, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
' •
My A ame •
My Address
S.B. 437 . ...
S. H. Prior Memorial Prize
Third Competition, Closing June 6, 1937.
Full particulars of this annual literary award will be published
here from time to time, or may be had on application to The
Bulletin, 252 George-street, Sydney.
For this current competition only novels are eligible, and the
Prize will be awarded to that which is considered the most
outstanding contribution to Australian literature.
The trustees will publish the successful work in book form,
and in serial form any they may deem worthy. If published as a
serial the winner will be paid for at serial rates in addition to the
prize-money. Any others used as serials will also be paid for at
SCna Any bona fide Australian resident or any person born in
Australia, New Zealand or British South Pacific islands will be
eligible to enter for the competition works which must be the
original work of the entrants, and previously unpublished, either
wholly or in part, in book or serial form. Manuscripts must be
submitted under a horn de plume, and the true name and address
of the author must accompany each entry in a sealed envelope,
which will not be opened until the judges have made their decision.
The trustees reserve the right to withhold the Prize if no work
submitted is, in the opinion of the judges, worthy of an award
If this should occur in any year, the amount of the Prize will be
added to the following year’s Prize
The Red Page
KATHARINE PRICHARD'S NEW
NOVEL.
In view of Katharine Susannah Prichard’s achieve-
ment in such vital books as Working Bullocks and
Coonardoo, her latest novel, Intimate Strangers
(Cape; 7s. 6d.), is disappointing. The manner is
there, but the feeling of dramatic compulsion is miss-
ing. The story, set in Perth and a near-by seaside
resort, is slender, conventional and long-drawn-out,
with an overweight of detail that drags at its move-
ment. It deals with a marriage that is headed for
disaster on the rocks of mutual boredom, and has
for a sideshow the story of a girl who repudiates
romance and marries for material reasons. Neither
situation is made to seem very real.
We are told that Elodie abandoned a promising
musical career when she married Greg 15 years before
the tale begins, and that this is the root cause of their
discontent —humiliation on his side because he has
not been able to compensate her for her sacrifice, and
on her side the ever-present consciousness of thwarted
dreams. But nothing in the book bears this out con-
vincingly. The second situation Suffers from the
unreality of the main character. Margaret “Dirk”
Hartog, in her refusal of young romance, and in her
life of hard tennis-playing and shark-daring aquatics,
makes an impression only as a simple inversion of
the passionate flapper. The matter is not helped by
others of the characters having been met before in
fiction. The vulgar, wealthy, titled, parsimonious and
tyrannous linen-draper parents-in-law whom Dirk
acquires are no newcomers. Jerome Hartog, whom
Elodie joins in a brief tumultuous love affair, with
his pointed beard, his masterful ways, his cargo boat
with the lines and appointments of a yacht and his
plantations in the tropic east, is a fairly well-known
figure of adventure. Trixie, a lisping, predatory little
manhunter, widow of a publican, Rachel, a bored,
cynical, middle-aged amorist, and even the two
children, Bill and Peg, are stock pattern.
Greg fails as a figure of tragedy. In his relation-
ships with Trixie, Rachel and Dirk he convinces only
as an incurable philanderer. His difficulties with his
employers and in making a living during the depres-
sion, while good as details, add nothing to him because
of the unrealities of the main situation. Though it
is the turning point of the book, it is hard to take
him seriously in the scene where Elodie finds him
sprawled asleep at his desk, a revolver beside him
and a note telling her he intends to commit suicide.
In some of the descriptive passages there are
glimpses of the vigor to which we are accustomed —
“High, creamy dunes shawled with sea lavender” —
and it is possible that the story might have been
vitalised had the author’s attention been focused
entirely on it; but it has been sacrificed to her interest
in ideas and atmospheric detail. Surfing, sunbaking,
tennis, music and meetings of the unemployed are all
matters which interest her and manifestly have her
approval. It is true that she exhibits them woven
into the thoughts and actions of her characters, but
the texture of the story is strained to carry them at
such length. The resulting impression is that the
characters are working for the author, not living for
themselves. That impression is confirmed in the last
pages, where, Jerome having been dismissed for the
callous betrayal of a young girl, and Greg having
repented of his follies, Greg and Elodie are reunited.
They decide that their bond of union in the future
will be their joint efforts at correcting the evils of
the existing social order.
Anyone familiar with Katharine Susannah
Prichard’s work up to the present will probably have
the feeling in reading Intimate Strangers that she
herself has not been happy with it.
Natural Pattern.
The Foxes, by R. P. Harriss (Methuen ; 7s. 6d.),
is not recommended to those who like a charming
story about animals and nervously hope that the end
will not be too sad. It is for those who like a strip
of reality cut from one of the less exploited sides
of life.
The book is a natural pattern, a picture of life,
wild and tame, animal and human, on a run-down
plantation in the South of the United States. The
vixen has a litter of five cubs born in the marsh
called Spaniard’s Grave. The history of their short
lives and the survival of Gutch, the strongest, twines
through the life of the swamp, the forest and the
plantation. The story is told in delicate, strong out-
line, and that involves many stories and many lives.
We get a sort of natural patchwork in which Capt’n,
the owner of the plantation ; Duncan, the white child
who comes to stay with him; Chink, the little black
boy; the negroes, the Indians, the house dogs, the
hunting pack, the foxes and all the creatures of the
Wildwood have a part. Reality is not graduated ;
one is as real as another, man, dog, fox or snake.
There is a steady equality like a clear light.
There is a great deal of death in The Foxes. The
creatures kill and are killed, hunt and are hunted.
This is accepted as natural. Men and animals are
alike hunters. There are no lamentations over these
deaths, no moralisings, implicit or explicit. These
things happen and life goes on without a flicker—
there is plenty more life. It is a relentless book in
its small scale. If it is a microcosm it makes no prate
of it, draws no moral. There is a touch of the fable
about it —the older, more innocent fable that did not
seek, to prove a point—and more than a glimpse of
the Golden Age. It is the book’s secret that it can
be at once realistic and idyllic. It sets cruel fact by
cruel fact, yet an idyll rises from the whole. It is
not a long book, yet one of the pleasant things about
it is that it never hurries; whatever it narrates it tells
exactly and in full detail. The time it takes for ‘b’s
is made up by leaving out all explanations. This is
Proctor’s vigil:
On the verandah of the House, half a mile away,
Proctor roused from dreams of deadly combat, and
seemed troubled. The cares of the place lay heavily
upon him. His master was abed. The hounds were
kennelled far away, beyond the stables and the pad-
dock. The little craven cur yard-dogs of the Quarters
were curled up under the cabins. Llewellyn, the
ancient setter, slept on a rug in the library—old Lew was
stone deaf and half blind, less than useless. The loose
folds of Proctor’s forehead wrinkled in perplexity, his
mutilated ears stood stiffly erect. He trotted out into
the driveway, stopped to listen and sniff. Baffled and
suspicious, he barked shortly once, a low warning
bark—heavy-jawed threat to evildoers ending in a
growl—and came back to the verandah. He was still
worried about something. After turning around twice on
the old shooting-jacket on which he habitually bedded
he made his rounds again: to the bams, the smoke-
house, the kitchen, and to a point almost half-way
between the verandah and the highway at the far end
of the oak-bordered drive. Finding no wandering
stoat in the garden, no loose mule, no marauding rat
or weasel, no stray cat or proguing negro, Proctor
trotted back and, sighing heavily, lay down.
But the foxes heard his bark and took themselves
off: they also took two red-hackled roosters.
There are a hundred small, bright, concise
picture of hunting, of cockfighting, of the Quarters,
of foxes at work and play. Atmosphere is delicately
transcribed. We get the “feel” of the place.
Paths and walkways were thick with sedge and
briars. The whole place seemed determined in a
leisurely, decadent, unhurridd fashion to obliterate the
hand of man. Even big Tabby, the coon-cat, now
lived in the fields by preference, and not only preyed
upon songbirds, young rabbits and partridge chicks,
but helped himself to Biddy’s as well, and would snarl
and slink away at the approach of the black child who
once had stroked her fur in the days of milk-fed
respectability.
The Foxes is written in a light prose more and
more pleasing as the reader’s ear becomes accustomed
to it. It is both concrete and atmospheric. Here is
a picture from the white child’s world as deftly done
as the natural scene:
Duncan went to sleep that night in a covered four-
poster, in a room on the second floor of the House.
Aunt Lize had aired and freshened the room with
pine tops and spread the bed with snowy white
starched sheets. The boy pulled up the coverlet, for
the night was cool; the coverlet was a light patchwork
quilt; it had that clean but faintly musty smell of all
old quilts that have been packed away in a pine chest.
An elusive bouquet of dried flowery herbs clung to it.
The room itself had a woody, faded flavor.
The Great Illusion.
Andrew Smith was for 16 years an active member
of the Communist party in the United States; his
wife was a party member as well. He was so good
a Communist that in 1929 he was selected as a mem-
ber of an American Labor delegation to visit the
Soviet Union. Similar invitations have been extended
to and accepted by Australian trade-unionists. Every-
thing he saw there inspired and delighted him. He
went back to the U.S. and told his fellow-workers
all about it, even as Australian delegates have done.
He developed such an enthusiasm about Russia that
he decided to live the rest of his life there. He gave
his savings, about £6OO, to the Communist party, and
sailed away with his wife to the “workers’ paradise.”
This was the reception he got at Belo Ostrov, on
the Finnish-Russian border, as a tourist in 1929:
The finest food and plenty of it was piled high on
tables decked with the cleanest of white tablecloths,
meats, fish, cakes, fruit and wine in abundance. We
were greeted as if we were distinguished diplomats repre-
senting a foreign Power. A squad of Red soldiers
saluted us at the border.
This was the reception he got at the same place as
a worker in 1932.*
There was no delegation to meet us this time. No
brass band and no speakers. All we saw were some
poor, emaciated-looking peasants.... We called to them
“Long live the Soviet Union” But they passed on
with weary feet without answering.
We made haste to find the stolovaya, or restaurant.
When the soup readied the table we looked at one
another. Especially they looked at me. The smell
which arose from the soup was indescribable. It seemed
that they had cooked the entire fish, entrails and all, to
make this appetising dish. We could see the fish eyes
and heads floating about in the plate.... There were
no vegetables. Since the waitress noticed we were
foreigners we were allowed a piece of black sour bread,
which tasted like clay.
And this, the contrast between propaganda and
reality, was the experience of Smith and his wife
for three years. They found Russia a Communist-
party bureaucracy which had enslaved the workers;
they found starvation, beggary and prostitution;
and at the end, though the bureaucrats tried
to placate Smith to prevent him telling the
truth about what he saw, and, failing, offered
to provide him with a passport, he was proud to
exclaim, “I don’t need your passport. I have a
damned good American passport,” and got out —
lucky perhaps to get out alive, which he could not
have done if he had been a Russian. The story is told
in / Was a Soviet Worker (Robert Hale; 12s. 6d.),
and is so well documented as to defy denial.
Film Memories.
G. R. Doyle, author of Twenty-five Years of
Films (Mitre Press ; 10s. 6d.), is an ex-actor (stage,
not screen) and a playwright, and for the greater part
of the period he reviews he has been a journalistic
critic of moving pictures. He has lived in many lands,
and claims to be able to take an impartial, non-
nationalistic view of his subject, but he’s an Eng-
lishman under his cosmopolitan skin, and reserves his
bitterest, irony for Hollywood and its stars.
At the outset he sets himself to correct the almost
universal impression that the cinema is an American
creation. He recalls that in 1824 Dr. Roget (of
Thesaurus fame) stumbled on the “persistence of
vision” effect by watching a moving cart through the
slats of a Venetian blind, and that moving pictures
based on this discovery were shown on a screen in
1830 by the Baron Uchatius. The first practical
cinema projector (12 pictures a second) was con-
structed by an Englishman, William Friese-Greene, in
1885, and the first commercially-manufactured pro-
jector was made to his design in 1887, the year in
which celluloid film was introduced. Friese-Greene's
British patent was taken out on June 21, 1889. It
was not till October in that year that Edison pro-
duced his experimental kinetoscope, and by the time
that was ready for the public (as a one-man peep-
show) Friese-Greene’s screen-projecting machine was
already well developed by Lumiere in France and
R. W. Paul in England. The first genuine cinema
performance in the world was not the much-quoted
show at Koster and Bial’s Music Hall, New York.
April 23, 1896, but occurred at Lyons on March 22,
1895, under the Lumiere aegis. There were two public
shows in London on February 20, 1896, one spon-
sored by,Lumiere and one by Paul. The first “picture
theatre” in the world was established in March, 1896.
in part of Olympia, West Kensington. The first film
play, “The Soldier’s Courtship” (40ft.), was made in
London in 1896. It was not till 1898 that the three-
reel film, “The Passion Play of Ober-Ammergau”
(which was the first example of cinematography seen
by most Australasians), was made in New York, and
it was not till about 1900 that it was sent on its travels
round the world.
As to the talkies, Uncle Sam has a better claim
to be an originator. Edison made a talking film as
far back as 1889, and it was not till 1902 that an
English concern filmed a Gilsullivan operetta with
speech and music. But Mr. Doyle considers it was
a mistake to wed sound to sight on the screen—the
silents made for better art. Furthermore, he seems
to suggest that the hand-colored films in the days
before technicolor were to be preferred to later and
more scientific efforts. It is impossible to agree with
him on those points, or to appreciate his inordinately
high praise of Max Linder (nearly forgotten now, even
by the greyheads).
Among directors, Mr. Gould places D. W. Grif-
fith in a deservedly high niche, but so does every
other commentator. The distinguishing feature of
Mr. Gould’s survey is his sweetly-acidulous style:
The following account of a grim incident will
convey some idea of the dangers incurred by the
plucky Mack Sennett bathing girls: A bathing comedy
was being made near Rendondo on a brilliantly sunny
afternoon. Everyone was in the gayest spirits, and
although a somewhat high sea was running it would
certainly never have occurred to a soul that swift disaster
was shortly to throw its cloud over the party that had
set out so cheerfully.
A witness who gave tearful evidence at the subse-
quent inquiry deposes as follows:
“It was a horrible thing, and even now we can
hardly realise that it has happened. You couldn’t have
a sweeter or more popular girl than Dessica. 1 have
been in these comedies for three years now and there
has never been the slightest mishap, because every care
is taken of us and the assistant director marks out a
safety-line on the beach and we are forbidden to cross
it. 1 allow Dessica must have done so. 1 saw she was
standing on a little mound of pebbles and I guess she
must have fallen off.”
1 suppose the exact facts will never be known, but
the upshot seems to 4 be that the girl’s foot slipped just
as a huge wave was breaking. Shrieks ran out from the
group of horrified spectators, but before assistance could
be given the unfortunate victim was soaked to the skin.
Mr. Gould considers the “star system” a mis-
take; it is directors who matter, not actors. “The
(i Continued on page 8.)


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING” —the Salt of Business.
“THE SENIOR STORE.”
!'JjCMCj
//
AjeSuKc&
Anthony Horderns’
The latest farming implements save hours of time, and time means
money. Make your day easier by equipping yourself with up-to-date
farming machinery. Anthony Horderns’ have everything you require.
m
/
/
RANSOME’S “VICTORY” ONE-HORSE PLOUGH
B 5 I.—Especially designed for farmers needing a simple light plough,
taking only a minimum draught. All parts, except a wheel and handle
grips, are made entirely of high quality wrought steel to obtain the very
maximum of strength from a minimum of weight. Weight, 751 b.
Price
s's'-
\
Vs
V. S
St
y -y)
PLANET Jr.
HOE
v \ •• '••V
AND
CULTIVATOR
852. Steel wheel that does not clog; frame that is longer and higher than others;
steel standards that are so attached as to both brace the cultivator and withstand
strain; levers that operate quickly and easily; a depth regulator. Equipment includes
four 3xB cultivator steels, one 4xB cultivator steel, two 6in. hillers, one 7in. shovel,
all especially hardened. Will give long service. Price • £5/12/6
£>l26
c’V\
/ ‘Vft
U5 1
vr
a*
■>/
\
'I
>»Cy,
xfM
r
PLANET Jr. HAND HOE AND CULTIVATOR
853. For the home or market gardener. 6in. and 4£in. hoes are the best weed-
killers known; the cultivator teeth go through cultivation; ploughs are used for
opening and closing furrows, hilling up plants, etc. As with the double-wheel hoe,
the gardener can straddle the row until the plants are 20in. high, cultivating both
sides at one time. Equipment: Pair of 6in. hoes, pair hoes, four steel cultivator
teeth, pair of ploughs, two three-tooth and two five-tooth rakes, pair of leaf-lifters.
Price 85 /'
£^s
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS Ltd., SYDNEY
• C.X.B. CHAFF CUTTER
854.—£. H. Bentall and £-| Q/|Q/.
Co. Rising mouth, 7fm. *** 8 M
wide, cuts two lengths, 4-in. and I'm. Weight,
2cwt. Capacity, scwt. per hour.
Price £lO/10/-
gh
® The C.P.L.
CHAFF
CUTTER
£7/2/6
855. - inch
mouth, cuts
and iin. With
three legs.
Price ... £7/2/6
£l5/15/-
• C.D.V. CHAFF CUTTER
856.—E. H. Bentall and
Co. C.D.V. rising mouth,
8 Jin. wide, cuts two lengths, Jin. and -Jin.
wide. Weight, 3cwt. Capacity, 6cwt. per
hour. Price £l5/15/-
THE “BEATRICE”
GRINDING MILL
77/6
An Ideal Machine for the Poultry
Farmer
B 5 7.—This mill will grind or granulate small
dry bones, broken oyster shells, grit, old
crockery, glass, charcoal and all kinds of
grain. Price 77/6
$ Agriculture—Fourth Floor. Free Delivery
City and Suburbs only.


A Man and a Girl
OUT OF THE PAST
THE POTTER’S WHEEL.
J.H.M ABBOTT
DRAWINGS BY PERCY LINDSAY
/nS the dawn flamed up into yellows and oranges
behind her, her Majesty’s hired transport
t I Prince George lay off South Reef, in the
entrance to Port Jackson, rolling gently in a
long swell that marched steadily in from eastward.
The early morning was still and warm, with that hot
dampness characteristic of February weather in
Sydney. Limply the sails flapped against the swaying
masts as the vessel slowly heeled to port and star-
board, and with monotonous regularity the squelch
and gurgle of the displaced waters came faintly from
overside with every wallowing roll.
Amidships, behind the poop rail, Mr. Richard
Snodgrass, master of the convict ship, stood in his
shirt-sleeves, telescope tucked under his left arm, and
gazed down into the waist with indignant astonish-
ment manifest in his brick-red, homely countenance.
Abaft the mainmast a convict, a damned broad-
arrowed lag, was actually kissing a wench! And the
wench was a wench who had refused to kiss him,
Dick Snodgrass, master mariner and, by the grace of
God, commander of the Prince George!
He turned round and beckoned with his arm to
the mate, who stood by the helmsman, enjoining a
mystery of silence upon him by placing a stubby
forefinger upon his own pursed-up lips. Mr. Norton,
the chief officer, came forward immediately, treading
gently along the planking in the effort to obey his
captain’s signal. As he arrived at the rail the latter
pointed down into the prison yard built upon the
deck where the convicts took their daily exercise in
batches behind the barricade of stout timber stretching
athwartship from bulwark to bulwark which fenced
off the quarter-deck from the forward part of the
transport. Aft of the barrier was a free country,
forward of it a gaol. No convict passenger ever set
foot in the sacred area below the poop save when
the surgeon might send for one of them to attend
him in his cabin and dispensary.
“What the devil,” hoarsely whispered the captain,
“is she doing behind that fence, Mister Mate? Who
let her in there?”
Mr. Norton shook his head. “It beats me, sir.
&s for the fellow—l know him, all right. He’s one
»’ those chaps was told off by the doctor to assist
in working the ship up the coast. He’s in my own
watch. A decent young fellow, name o’ Milbank.
But how’d she get in? The gate’s locked, and the
sergeant of the guard keeps the key. Unless she
climbed up them steps, sir?”
On each side of the ship, against the bulwarks,
a short wooden ladder leaned against the outside of
the barrier, leading to a plank-walk a foot wide run-
ning up to the forecastle, with a rope lifeline stretch-
ing above it fore and aft for the use of the crew
in getting about the ship. There were no steps down
into the prison enclosure.
“Ah, that’s it,” nodded Captain Snodgrass. “She’s
climbed up when the sentry at the cabin door wasn’t
looking and jumped down. Well, Mr. Norton, go and
wake the sergeant and get the key from him, or get
him to unlock the gate, and tell that gal I want her
up here.”
\\l HEN they climbed the ladder to the poop
* * Captain Snodgrass had put on his brass-buttoned
blue tail-coat and was marching severely up and
down the port side, telescope tightly tucked under
arm and beaver top-hat squarely upright on his head.
He tried to look stern as the mate approached him
with the girl, but she smiled at him so sweetly that
the flicker of a grin hovered about his own thick lips.
She dropped him a demure curtsey. “At your
service, Captain Snodgrass. Pray, what d’ye want o’
me?”
“Well, miss—well, miss! Nice goings-on, to be
sure! What d’ye mean by it, me gal? Ent’ring the
prison to flirt wi’ a prisoner! I never did!”
“No, Captain Snodgrass,” she laughed, “I’m sure
you never would not even if they were women
prisoners. You never want to flirt, do you, sir?
Never!” She shook a forefinger at him, her pretty
face dimpled with "smiling mischief.
“It won’t do, my gal—it won’t do! Ye can’t
laugh it off in this way. ’Tis a ser’ous matter, I can
assure ye. Supposing I was to report ye to Captain
Llewellyn—what then?”
“Oh, but you wouldn’t, Captain!”
“Or to Mrs. Llewellyn?”
Momentarily the smile vanished from the girl’s
face, but came back as quickly. “Mrs. Llewellyn’s a
lady, Captain. She’d make allowances for a poor,
lonely young girl.”
“Allowances! Don’t you believe it, me gal. No
woman would. A prisoner! Pah! Disgusting!
Wait till you land in Sydney, me gal, and then ye’ll
learn how prisoners count in New South Wales.
Lower than the stray dogs about the town. Worse’n
beggars in any English village. No standing at all.
Don’t count. Outcasts. And yet you—you, a girl
occupying a good position in a respectable family—
you can go into the prison aboard this ship and let
one o’ the scum make free wi’ ye. Ashamed of you,
that’s what I am —a girl like you!”
A little dismayed by this outburst, the girl stared
silently at Captain Snodgrass. Then she flushed and
tossed her head angrily. But she laughed as she
spoke. “At any rate, sir, I’m not so low that I’d let
the captain of this ship make love to me.”
The mate turned away to hide his smile, and
the commander of the Prince George showed some
confusion. “All right let go the hook as soon’s
you’re ready... Very well, me gal, we’re at the end
of our voyage, and I’ll take no further notice of your
—of your indiscretion. But ye’ll need to watch them
fellies. They want watching—all of ’em —and you’ll
find that out for yourself before you’ve been in Sydney
“You were charged with highway robbery —of a potter’s wheel.”
a month. You’d better go below now —your mistress
may want you.”
O MILING as demurely as when she first confronted
him, the girl turned towards the head of the star-
board ladder, then faced about again and came back
a pace or two. “Captain Snodgrass!”
“Well, me gal, be quick about it. We’re about
to come to an anchor, and I’ve no time to waste.
What is it, then?”
“I understand that when we reach Sydney people
will come on board looking for workmen. Assigned
servants they call them, don’t they? Well, that young
man, Captain Snodgrass the young man I went to
see in the prison. We were to have been married a
year ago—before he got into trouble—and I would
like”
“What was the fellow’s trouble, then?” interrupted
the captain a little testily. “The usual thing he didn’t
do, I suppose, eh? They’re none of ’em guilty. More
sinned against than sinning, eh? I’ve made five
voyages wi’ convicts to New South Wales, me gal,
and never landed a guilty man in Sydney Cove. The
amount of innocency that’s making the roads in the
colony is unbelievable. Well, what did the jury make
a mistake about, Miss Barry? What did the unjust
Judge sentence him for?”
“Highway robbery, Captain. But, whether you
believe it or not, he didn’t do it. ’Twas fastened on
him by those who did. He’s as innocent—as innocent
—as innocent as you are of kissing me. More
innocent, for he hadn’t even the intent to rob.”
“Who was he supposed to rob, and what was he
supposed to take from his victim?”
“ ’Twas a Mr. Fowler —a Mr. Enoch Fowler —
and he’s here in Sydney now. Oh, if I can only find
him I’m sure he’ll be able to be convinced ’twas not
poor Jim who robbed him. He was charged with
stealing from him a potter’s wheel. But he didn’t
do it.”
“A potter’s wheel! For the love o’ mercy, me
gal, what did he want with a potter’s wheel? Is the
fellow a potter?”
“No. He couldn’t make an earthenware platter
if he tried for a month of Sundays. But never mind
that. We’ll prove his innocence some day. All I
want you to promise is to put in a good word for
him with the head people here. Get him assigned to
some person who’ll treat him well. That’s all I ask
you, Captain. Please be so good as that, sir.”
They were interrupted by the splash of the anchor
as the Prince George came to a mooring at the north-
western end of the Sow and Pigs.
“There, there,” cried Captain Snodgrass as he
turned towards the ladder. “All right, me gal—l’ll do
what I can. Leave it to me. I’ll do my best. And
mind what I’ve told you—watch yourself here. ’Tis
a damned wicked place. Now I must go below and
get my papers ready for the naval officer. I’ll do
what I can for the young fellow.”
K/j R. ENOCH FOWLER’S newly-started pottery-
works lay just outside the town, beside the dusty
thoroughfare known in 1837 as Parramatta-street and
now as George-street West. A little way farther out
was Grose Farm, where the University of Sydney has
been in occupation of the rising ground overlooking
Sydney for fourscore years.
It was a long and dreary tramp from the Convict
Barracks at the top of King-street which “No. 3303,
John Milbank, per Prince George, Middlesex Sessions,
seven years,” had to take to work each morning,
though the early freshness was reviving and stimulating
after the foetid atmosphere of the crowded dormitory
in the barracks in which he had sweated through the
night in company that wasn’t to his taste. He walked
across the racecourse—the open ground now known
as Hyde Park—until he came to the great open pits
of the Brickfields beyond the cemetery at the top of
the George-street hill, then down into the hollow
where the haymarket had not been long established,
up the slope to the tollbar erected by Governor
Macquarie at the south end of Sydney, and then down
the road until he came to the little shingled shed
where Mr. Fowler made kitchen crockery and earthen-
ware pots. It stood on the north-west side of the
highway, and behind was the pit whence was obtained
the clay for use in the primitive workshop that was
destined in a hundred years to grow into Australia’s
most important pottery. Here John Milbank dug out
the Wianamatta shale and the pipeclay which Enoch
Fowler, assisted by a boy, puddled up into pug and
shaped on his potter’s wheel into the wares he vended
in the town beyond the ridge that was the watershed
of the Tank Stream.
On the good word of Captain Snodgrass, senti-
mentally faithful to his promise made to Mrs.
Llewellyn’s lady’s-maid, Milbank had been recom-
mended as a laborer to Mr. Fowler, and had imme-
diately recognised that gentleman as being the cause
of his coming in durance to New South Wales—
though he was at first under the impression that the
recognition was not mutual. It was not long, however,
before his mind was disabused of this illusion. He
had not been at work three days in the claypit before
the boy came to the edge of the hole to summon him
into Mr. Fowler’s presence.
“Hey, you Mr. Canary,” the lad cried to him
from the brink of the pit, “th’ cove wants you. Up in


th’ shed. Look sharp. Some o’ you pns’ners
dunno how to move. I’d larn ye.
“All right, Tommy.”
“Mr. Murphy, if y’ please. I don’t allow no
convicks to call me Tommy. You jes’ talk to y’r
betters properly, Number 3303. Insolence don’t pay
here. You’ll find that out if you ain’t careful.”
The prisoner climbed to the level of this free
citizen and boxed his ears.
“Quite right, Milbank,” said Mr. Fowler from
the doorway of the shed. “Our Tommy’s a deal too
cheeky.. I want to speak to you. Come inside, will
you?”
HIS master leading the way, Milbank followed him
into the shed. It was dim in here after the
brightness of the sunlight in the yard. Everywhere,
on shelves and rough tables, were jugs and other
vessels, plates, cups and saucers, flower-pots and
bread-crocks, either newly from the kiln or waiting to
be placed in it. And over by the only window stood
the potter’s wheel.
Mr. Fowler led the way to the window, and the
two stood beside the simple yet ingenious and invalu-
able machine. Milbank saw a table standing about
waist-high through which passed an axle carrying on
its upper end a disc. Close beside the table stood
the big flywheel, whose handle it was Tommy
Murphy’s task to turn, which, by means of cords,
caused the disc to revolve so that the potter might
shape his lumps of clay upon it into whatever forms
he desired.
Enoch Fowler stood beside the table and looked
steadily at his assigned servant.
“Well, then, Milbank,” he presently said gently,
“there it is, me man. That’s what brought ye to this
country. Now tell me, in the name of all that’s holy,
what made you go and rob me of that throwing-
wheel? What use could it have been to you ?"
“Sir,” said the younger man, “I didn’t think you
remembered me. But I didn’t take the thing at all, as
I said at the trial. I know nothing about your being
called upon to stand and deliver that day near Brent-
ford, as it all came out in court —nothing at all. What
I said was true enough, sir. As you say, what would
I be wanting with a potter’s wheel?”
“But ’twas traced by the Bow-street men to your
lodging in Hammersmith and found in your room.”
“ ’Twas placed there, sir, by the man who robbed
you. He must have put it there when he knew the
Bow-street men were in the neighborhood.”
“But you were in Brentford that day? It was
sworn that you were the man who presented a pistol
at me in the highway just outside the village and took
this table and wheel out of the cart I had hired to
carry it in to St. Katherine’s Docks from the man
from whom I had purchased it in Brentford. The
owner of the cart identified you, even—though I could
not swear to you myself.”
“I know all that, Mr. Fowler—l’ve good reason
to know it —but still there’s a mistake. I’m not the
man.”
Enoch Fowler was a kindly soul. “You still
maintain your innocence?” he said quietly. “You
deny that it was you who took from me this throwing-
table by threats and force of arms?”
“Most certainly I do, sir. I have never admitted
my guilt of the charge, and I never will. I have been
unjustly sentenced and transported. Who robbed you
I don’t know. All I know is ’twas not myself.”
Enoch Fowler stretched forth an arm and placed
his hand upon the prisoner’s shoulder.
“Milbank,” he said, “you’re a very lucky man.
A lucky man indeed.”
The other looked at him in astonishment, as
though half-doubtful whether he was not being made
game of. He glanced down at the rough
convict clothing he was wearing, all
soiled and plastered with clay acquired
in the digging he had done.
“Well, Mr. Fowler,” he said, with
a trace of bitterness in his tone, “it would
seem that your idea of luck and mine
are different. Look at the rig I’m com-
pelled to wear —see the number I carry
on my jacket. Luck! Oh, yes, if living
in Hyde Park Barracks and answering to
Number 3303 is any sort of luck I sup-
pose I am lucky. Lucky in the food I
eat, the hours I keep, the kind of black-
guards I’ve got to herd with—well, yes,
I must be lucky. But, damme, sir, if I
can ever see it.”
Enoch Fowler smiled quietly.
“Come,” he said, “well knock off
early to-day and Tommy can take a half-
holiday whilst I convince you that you
are a lucky man. I’ll shut up shop and
well go into Sydney together. It means
some loss of business, I suppose, but I
can’t complain, for I owe you a good
turn. What time are you due back at
the Barracks?”
“Seven o’clock, sir—to the evening
muster.”
“And supper, I suppose?”
“Such as it is, sir bread and
hominy.”
“All right. Bring your tools up
from the pit and put the barrow inside
here and I’ll lock the place up. Tell the
boy he may go home as you go down the yard. I
want you to come in to Sydney with me. I’m going
to show you how truly lucky you are —though you
don’t believe me now. Well, we’ll see.”
""THEY left the pottery to look after itself when
* Mr. Fowler Ijad duly padlocked doors and win-
dow and began the long walk in to Sydney by way
of the Brickfields. Past the cemetery where St.
Andrew’s Cathedral and the Town Hall stand to-day,
and past the markets, and they came into the business
centre of the town. Mr. Fowler led the way round
the corner into King-street and, a few doors up on
the right, halted outside the gate of a pretty garden
behind which a large cottage stood back from the
highway.
“And here, Milbank, is where you’re going to
realise what a lucky man you are,” he said with a
smile.
“Why, sir,” replied the convict in amazement,
“ ’tis Captain Llewellyn’s house! ”
“Yes, but come in. I’ve some business with the
captain—and so have you.”
“But, sir, Captain Llewellyn’s the new Comp-
troller-General of Convicts. Surely, sir, I’ve done
nothing to deserve to be taken before him. I’ve done
my best in your employment, Mr. Fowler. Surely”
“Ah, well, Milbank, I don’t think you’ll be in my
employment much longer—and I’m sorry for it. But
come in, come in. We must get this business over.”
Doubtfully the prisoner followed his master
through the gate in the white wicket fence and up
the pathway to the front door of the house. Even
in his short experience of Sydney he had seen so
many strange happenings that he felt some misgivings
as to what might be about to befall him. Anything
might take place in Sydney. A convict had no rights.
He’d heard some strange tales. There wasn’t much
justice in a penal settlement like this. The poor
prisoner was always in the wrong. What the devil
did it all mean?
When the door was opened to Mr. Fowler’s
knocking Milbank’s heart gave a jump. It was Mary
Barry who opened it. She smiled at him and nodded
over Mr. Fowler’s shoulder.
“Is Captain Llewellyn at home, if you please?”
asked the potter. “I have an appointment with him.
Mr. Enoch Fowler.”
“Yes, sir—l was to show you into his study as
soon as you came. This way, please.”
She led them to a room at the back of the house
and ushered them in. Captain Llewellyn rose to
greet Mr. Fowler. He was a severe-looking man with
mutton-chop side-whiskers, and he stared hard at
Milbank.
“Pray be seated, Mr. Fowler,” he said. “Is this
the man, sir?” He picked up a paper and read from it.
“ ‘Number 3303, John Milbank, per Prince George,
Middlesex Sessions, seven years.’ You are John
Milbank?”
“Yes, sir.” - f
“You were charged with highway robbery and
sent out for it. I understand that Mr. Fowler here
was the person robbed of a —of a potter’s wheel. That
is so, Mr. Fowler?”
“Yes, sir—yes, Captain Llewellyn.”
“Well, then, Milbank, it is my duty to inform
you that I have this day recommended you to his
Excellency for a free pardon, another man having
confessed to the crime for which you were found
guilty at your trial in England. Fortunately for you,
we have been able to obtain confirmation of his story
from another prisoner who is serving a sentence in
the colony. The man who has confessed is to be
executed to-morrow morning for robbery under arms
in the colony. I must congratulate you on the fact
of his having thought fit to make this eleventh-hour
confession —and also on the fact that a good girl who
has interested herself in you was the means of prevail-
ing upon him to do so. I hope you will thank her in
proper form, my man.”
“Pray, who am I to thank, sir?” gasped Milbank.
“My wife’s maid, Mary Barry, daughter of
Sergeant Barry, of the Twenty-eighth.”
Enoch Fowler thumped his servant between the
shoulders with his open hand. “There you are,
Milbank! Now go and thank her yourself. He may
do so, I hope, Captain Llewellyn.”
A smile came into the Comptroller-General’s
stern features, and he nodded to the amazed prisoner.
“Yes, by all means. Down the passage, my man,
and you’ll find her in the back garden. I think she’s
expecting you. I’ll give you a pass to absent yourself
from Hyde Park Barracks to-night. To-morrow
you’ll be a free man. Off with you, now, and thank
our Molly.”
“And, Milbank,” said Mr. Fowler before the
young man left the room, “if you care to stay on in
my employment I’ll teach you all about the potter’s
wheel that has caused you so much trouble and dis-
tress. Think it over, Milbank. Ask the girl what
you’d better do. Good luck to you, my friend. You
are, as I said earlier in the afternoon, a lucky man.”
“Gen —gentlemen, I don’t know what to say,”
stammered Milbank.
“Say it to the girl, my man—say it to the girl,”
said Captain Llewellyn, “and don’t keep a lady wait-
ing. Off with you.”
“What d’ye mean by it, me gal? Ent’ring the prison to flirt wi a prisoner.”


Of Ships, the Sea and Seamen
MEW SKIPPED FOR THE CULOAIRN
Oscar A.
Mendelsohn
ILLUS-
TRATED
BY
LOCK.
OF course the motives
of Faulding, the
worried gentleman
who controlled and
mainly owned the Bain-Faulding
line by the grace of God and the
last will and testament of his uncle,
were entirely laudable. When the
Princess Eleanor stupid name for
that obsolete, clanking, losing proposi-
tion of a nine-knot freighter went to
the Japanese there was the problem of
what to do with old Nanley. He had been
her master for the last seventeen years and
an officer of the line for much longer. To berth
him in the Culoairn as mate with captain’s pay
seemed a generous solution.
Nanley was a simple, quiet soul with a simple,
quiet wife and two faded, semi-invalid daughters. He
had run the Princess Eleanor without trouble during
all the years of his command. Surprisingly placid
years, too. Somehow his ship was always on reason-
ably close time. Not much obvious discipline in her,
but not slack either, and, on the whole, comfortably
efficient. Rarely any trouble in the crew. But his
simplicity was not characterless. His large tubbiness,
white moustache, slow voice and bluish eyes made
a unified man.
He worried a bit when cargoes dropped and
dropped, and his conversations with agents in ports
got a trifle more anxious over his moderate brandy-
and-lemon ; but he wasn’t really the worrying kind.
These matters of commerce bewildered and baffled
him. Somehow the spacious days would return.
Aboard again, the problem soon dissolved in the
unrippled waters of routine.
Apart from his duties, he had his recreation He
liked his bit of wood-carving and had rigged up a
nice little bench in his quarters. Not arty stuff, mind
you, but chip-carving in neat, regular geometrical
patterns. Each voyage yielded a modest harvest of
teapot-stands and pipe-racks and small picture-frames
to add to his already cluttered home, though he also
found pleasure in bestowing tokens of his industry
on his friends.
And there was Harrison. Harrison was the
master of the Culoairn, the smartest ship of the line.
He and Nanley, in the nature of things, had run into
each other occasionally in the past, sometimes in port,
sometimes at the home office, rubbing along well
enough in a casual way.
Harrison was a precise, fussy, undersized, skinny
man, a non-smoking teetotaller, voluble, tyrannical to
his subordinates. He nursed a grievance that he had
not been made marine superintendent when that
fruity job fell vacant a few years back. His father,
and father before him, had been of the sea, and
Harrison had been drafted into the life, in spite of
resistance, to keep up the family tradition. His
tendencies had been far away from the sea, but he
had lacked the fibre to rebel effectively, and the years
had brought him simultaneous bitterness over his
thwarted inherent inclinations and his mediocre
success at sea.
Although Nanley and Harrison had so little in
common, there was mutual respect for rank, shop to
talk, and their wives were acquainted. None of the
rotting jealousy of the sea was possible.
It never occurred to Faulding that Nanley would
be other than glad to join Harrison’s ship Culoairn
as mate at unreduced pay. Nanley knew the difficul-
ties, ever increasing, of the line —the loss of cargoes
to smarter vessels, the decline of the timber trade, the
shrewd tactics of the Scandinavian owners of pirate
freighters who ran to no schedule but swooped down
like falcons on a port to lift a choice full cargo at
cut rates. If Nanley had been put on the beach...
So much for Faulding, an amiable and kindly
man with more urgent problems on his mind than to
see how Nanley was resting in his new berth. And
perhaps he wouldn’t have noticed anything.
| T was a fearful blow to Nanley when the news
1 about the Princess Eleanor came through. It
wasn’t so much the dread of financial trouble, nor was
it the blow to prestige. The fact was the old chap
had a veritable fixation on the ship.
Yet, on the whole, after a breathing-space he
took it very well, and when Faulding flatteringly paid
him a special visit to explain all the circumstances
and to suggest that he join the Culoairn he was
gratefully acquiescent in his usual calm way.
He sent his personal gear home and methodically
handed over the Princess Eleanor to the always-
smiling fat Japanese master, Yamamito, who had
arrived from Nagasaki to assume command, accom-
panied by some stunted gnarled pine-trees in porcelain
pots and an ugly black English horsehair sofa.- He
liked Yamamito, liked him at once ; an understanding
person. So much so that he wasn’t very uncomfort-
able when he broke (town and wept a little over
<inal drinks of brandy and sake in the master's
cabin
He settled down to a furlough of two months at
home to await the Culoairn, much the longest period
a * h °£®
Yamamito had run the Eleanor
. ame ° ews „ , at Yama mito Had run the Eleanor
into trouble off tbe coast of India had induced in him
a consuming wish to be at sea again. He moved into
minnir™ ulmnet
y P < •
THAT was rather more than a year ago, and now
in his Hfc F on‘Harrist/he
r his life he hated a man, and on Harrison he
become Ven ° m ° US loathmg th&t had
Dec ome an obsession.
-a ° lci LT Nanley haQ come aboard free from fancy
ldeaS * • He knew the Sea and he knew the code * He
next^ubmdinatef'ha^r^olute^y B^l^6^^ ffim ffis
to^^Varriso^tilfinTserrice tfmate
10 ±lamson wnling service as mate. But he
speedily found he had joined a distressful ship. The
whole company was cowed. Mates, engineers,
stewards, boatswain, even the partly-independent radio
officer, were all jumpy and scared, the men sullen and
vengeful. Harrison was a terror, not in a bold, lustily
bullying way, but through the instrumentality of an
unremitting, oath-free petty tyranny.
To give him his due, he had not singled out
Nanley for special unkindness. He had merely made
clear by his attitude that he didn’t choose to remember
that they had ever met on terms of equality, and then
dealt with him in a manner neither better nor worse
than he had shown to his chief officers in the past,
This included the elimination of all real authority,
for Harrison seemed unable to delegate responsibility,
He was a torrent of restless, fussy energy, always
prowling, always interfering.
The Culoairn was run, too, on absurdly teetotal
lines, and Nanley was ungeared by the deprivation of
his nightly tot.
If this had been all, however, Nanley could have
struggled along with some degree of fortitude. It
was not all.
There was his chip-carving. Though Nanley had
little leisure—he stood the four-to-eight watches and
shouldered the main-deck duties—there was still an
hour or two available for his chisels and mallet. His
cabin was too cramped to hold a bench, so he rigged
a small one under the fo’c’sle-head. It never occurred
to him to ask Harrison’s formal permission. With a
choice collection of new patterns, all as differently
similar as the grouped villas of a suburban settlement
scheme, he got to work.
Almost immediately Harrison scotched his plans.
He expressed his strong displeasure that Nanley
should have made any such move without his consent.
He flatly forbade his officers to spend any of their
time off-duty in the crew’s quarters. And he
gratuitously poured his contempt upon the work
itself, the deadliness of his words augmented by their
truth.
Yet it was Harrison’s attitude to ships, and to his
own in especial, that was the real cause of the kindling
of Nanley’s hate. The Culoairn was a fine craft of
its type, staunch, serviceable, well-found, and, within
its limits, even graceful. To Harrison she was but
a freighter standing between him and the advancement
he had been denied.
Nanley, for his part, soon grew to love the
Culoairn. His affection for the Eleanor had been of
a different quality. She had been a comfortable,
familiar, competent wife. The Culoairn was a sym-
bolised vibrant, stirring maid in the grip of the ogre
Harrison, calling to Nanley to deliver her from
durance. Fanciful? Not really. Nanley, for the
life of him, couldn’t have put his emotion into words.
He grew to dread the mess-table. Harrison
monopolised the conversation, and almost nightly at
dinner paraded his wrongs, with scornful allusion to
the Culoairn. Nanley remained as silent and glum
as the harried rest of them. He gave no change
even in the privacy of a cabin, or on deck when one
of his fellow-officers would make a timid experimental
approach and then splurge his woes, the difficulties
of getting another berth to escape Harrison, the latest
indignity heaped upon him. Nanley listened cour-
teously, counselled patience, tactfully changed the
conversation. His battle and his hatred of Harrison
were his own affair, far too important to share.
NT OW when a man of Nanley’s calibre first distils
* hatred something is bound to happen, and in due
time he commenced to compass Harrison’s death.
The removal of the captain grew in his brain as a
mission, as necessary and blameless a destruction as
the killing of a marauding hawk or a wild ravisher.
It steered the course of his life, though nobody had
a hint of the tumult within him as he stood watch or
made rounds.
He rejected one scheme after another as risky.
Any plan which would involve him in even slight
danger of detection would have defeated his principal
end. He was intent primarily upon removing the
shackles that bound the Culoairn rather than wreaking
vengeance on Harrison, so it was essential to preserve
his own freedom and safety. Harrison must snuff
out so effectively that no breath of suspicion would
fall upon him. Then Nanley would be ready to take
his rightful place in the Culoairn and the world would
be in gear again. So he slowly found his plan and
matured it.
His final choice was the obvious one to push
Harrison overboard. The proper place would be
straight off the poop deck over the stern. There must
be the minimum of violence. And Harrison must
drown quickly, avoiding the lengthy agony of possibly
several hours of grim and hopeless struggle.
Nanley got hold of a slender but very strong
cord, made a running noose at one end and carried
this constantly with him. Then he settled down to a
patient vigil, awaiting a night when he and Harrison
would be aft alone.
Week upon week, then months, unrolled. Still
he brooded and waited. The quartermaster, taking
his trick at the wheel, found him ever considerate and
pleasant, a nice old chap, free from iron. The deck
men did his quiet bidding with no more than a tacit
realisation that Nanley did understand a ship.
THEN suddenly the way was clear. Four bells had
gone, and it was a night made for his task. The
Culoairn was pitching mildly in a chopped sea. There
was a moderate wind whistling through the rigging,
and the new moon showed but occasionally through
the scudding clouds.
The bo’sun had come forward to tell Nanley
that one of the deckboys was ill in his bunk. It was
o Continued on page 7.)


young Lennox, who had gone off duty in the morning
and who was now flushed and jabbering a bit wildly,
Nanley made his way aft and down the companion
to Lennox’s bunk. He found him running a tern-
perature. Nanley sent a messenger forward to ask
the captain to come. Harrison arrived within a few
minutes, and agreed that the case was probably one
of influenza.
Followed by Nanley the captain made his way
up to the poop deck, where the deep-sea souri ing-
machine stood, voicing some trivial comp .
walked to the after raif StoSued !he cord
and dropped the noose o£r his head He instantly
drew it tight, very tight, around the throat and threw
his arms around him. As Harrison went limp Nanley
lifted him to the rail and dropped him over the stern
into the creamy, boiling wake, barely clear of the
screw. Harrison had not uttered more than a dim
gurgle, and the faint sound of the scuffle had been
amply covered by the wind. Nanley watched Harrison
bob about for a few seconds, then turned and walked
reS olutely to his cabin. He knew that unless the
wea ther worsened much there would be no reason
for the captain to be missed until next morning. He
undressed and went to bed, ready to go on watch at
four.
At seven bells the me ssboy came to him excitedly
on the br j dge to say tbat t | le ca ptain was not in his
room and his bed was still made, Nanley sent for
lhe second offlcer t 0 relieve him ’ £ollowed do " n *°
captain’s deck, entered his room and confirmed
lhe news. He organised an immediate search of the
ship from stem to stern. While this was proceeding
he turned the ship back on her course for some miles,
Apparently nobody had actually seen the captain
after he had left Lennox. J he cook, who slept on the
main deck, close to the g y, g The
him walk past soon a_ , _
messboy remem ere a P
A £
. « mllttprv wben he had
Harrison had seemed “
“P had gone Ive'board
, . 6
01 £ a °™ calmly assumed charge, sent for the radio
offlcer and com pounded a tersely informative message
to Fau | d]ng Then be made his way to the captain’s
quarters and cast an appraising eye. Yes, that would
be the place for his bench, ove.-there to
He walked out on deck and looked fore and aft.
How easily the Culoaim was riding lo afolowing sea
happily rhythmical He absently lan his hand up and
down the rail, revelling in the cool, fleshy s
of it.
Brief Tale of the Ring
TITLE BOUT
BY
A.C. HEADLEY.
MRS. CODY dug her
hands into her slim
hips and surveyed
her husband with
open hostility.
“You don’t want to
fight,” she mocked. “You
want to set up in business.
All right—suppose you tell
me the business that’s
going to bring you in as
much as your fights.
What’s wrong with you?
You’ve got a build-up for
a championship match,
haven’t you? What’re you
trying to do with it?
Talkin’ about quitting and
starting-up in business.
All right; go ahead. But
go ahead without me. I’m
not sticking around as
Little Red Riding Hood
just to tell you what a
thick skull you’ve got.”
Bill Cody gestured
weakly. He was conscious
of a feeling of hopeless-
ness. “Listen, Noleen.
You don’ understan’. I
just don’ want to go too
far. They got dozens of
fighters in the rat-houses
already. That’s why I
want to get out. I don'
want to get that way. I
don’ want to get so that
people have to say things
a dozen times before I know what they’re talkin’
about. I don’ want that.”
His wife remained silent. He began again.
“Listen, Noleen”
She roused suddenly. “Listen... You listen to
me for a change. Quit and I quit—that’s what I’m
telling you. Go into your butter-and-eggs game. Go
anywhere. Go to hell!”
GEORGE CALLAS, Cody’s manager, said: “Bill,
you can’t do that. You got t’ think of me. You
can’t leave me stranded. If I ain’t got you I ain’t got
no one. Don’t let them punch-drunks get under your
skin. You ain’t like them, anyway. You’re clever.
You don’t take much punishment, and, after all, a
couple of fights more can’t do any harm. And there’s
a championship match that ain’t too far off. You
couldn’t pull out on me now, Bill.”
Seconds out! Time!
Bill Cody swung away from the ropes, stabbing
in towards the centre of the ring. Deep inside him
he was conscious of a vague feeling of triumph. It
was on. Title bout. The champion was swaying
towards him. They came together and spent harmless
blows on defences that had not yet been worn. It
was an old game, this first-round work. Nothing ever
was done. You just pawed around, expecting no
openings and giving none. You even had time to
notice the crowd and their inevitable roar of disap-
proval. Cody countered a left, stabbing hard to the
ribs. The champ, took it going away. Crowd noise
died, and the rasp of feet on canvas became the only
sound... The bell!
Cody dropped into his seat. George Callas
twisted the teeth-guard out of his mouth. Hands
slapped at his body, but there was hardly any need.
Not yet. He rinsed his mouth with water. Someone
at the ringside called his name, and he waved a gloved
hand. He had no idea who it was, but that didn’t
matter one way or another. You always waved back.
It cost nothing, and sometimes you made friends who
were very handy.
His gaze travelled across the ring towards the
champion. That round had been even. Well, it
wouldn’t be long now before the reporters on the
front bench were praising the new champion or giving
the old champion another lease of life.
Seconds out! Time!
It had started. The champion was obviously
tired of the preliminaries. The fight was coming at
Cody. He took a one-two on his arms and countered
with a left that landed high on the champ, s head,
That was no good. High punches never were. They
fell into a clinch, were pushed apart, and came together
in a sudden mad flailing. A right to the jaw stung
him. He snapped a vicious punch, but it met the bone
of an elbow. Then there was leather in his mouth.
Leather without power. He spun away, jabbing under
a ] e ft.
He was in a corner. A battery of punches was
swe eping him. They did no damage. Cody slipped
old f ro m beneath a swing. There was the taste of
b i o od in his mouth already. The champion was
coming in. Cody propped a left and felt the impact
j n his shoulder. He moved forward... The bell!
Another spell of slapping, of mouth-washing, of
advice th'? ii e t d Cafl every time!
'■ b There was no dou bt of
Jut forhTm He’ddone a lot
h°s to
cSmeTlong way
, . ' k was fighting four-rounders
£om the time when he wa rou
laugh sometimes.
bo Seconds B out , (They shoved § the rubber guard
. , t k \ Time'
'THREE seats back from the ringside, Mrs. Cody
1 watched her husband come out of his corner.
She, too, was thinking of how far and how fast she
had come with Cody. From rooms to a four-guinea
flat; from curling-irons to beauty parlors. And more
to come. There was money in fighting when you got
to the top—plenty of it.
Cody would be champion. She was sure o it.
He had to be, and he had to make plenty while he
was on top. He’d been fighting six-rounders when
she met him ; three a week, and sixes were wor
two-pound-ten. It had sounded like a lot of money
in those days, but it wasn’t any longer She had a
feeling that she was crested on that crowd, ndmg over
them. She would be the champ’s wife. He had to win.
RACK in his corner Cody gulped at the air, bifing i,
D into hjs ]ungs . Hands slapped at his legs. Hands
lifted his diaphragm, helping him to take the air.
Water trickled over his
body. He spat a mouthful
of blood into the sawdust
tray. Callas, with his “Let
him bring the fight to
you.”
Seconds out! Time!
George Callas
watched him slide out
into the centre of the ring.
He felt confident. The
fight was being made to
suit Cody. Already the
champ, had taken more
than his share of the
punishment. Still, you
had to be careful. You
didn’t have to be over-
confident. Cody would
be the new champion all
right —if he was careful.
It made a big difference to
him if Cody won. Man-
aging a champ, was a gift.
Make the most of the
pickings that, was the
idea. The road down was
too easy... The bell!
Jimmy Hayes, slapping
at Cody’s legs, grinned. It
had been Cody’s round.
Jimmy felt that as a matter
of personal pride. It made
a lot of difference being
second to a champion.
Not only did it raise your
social status, but it
had financial advantages.
Champs., when they won
fights, were generous with
their money. Jimmy
grinned appreciatively.
“You got ’im,” he breathed earnestly.
Cody felt tired. Weariness seemed to have
climbed into all his body. His head had not yet
cleared from a brief battering in the previous round.
Only his mouth was alive; he felt the sharp sting
from a dozen cuts. A sponge was wiping his eye
where blood had run down from a cut. Numbly he
realised that the champ, was in worse shape. He had
only to stand up for that last round and the cham-
pionship was his. Just one more round, and then the
rushing noises in his head would have time to quieten
down. He shook his head in a sudden gesture, trying
to rid himself of them; but they persisted.
CTECONDS out! Time! (Last round.)
Cody went in fighting. These last rounds! You
went into them tightening up every particle of power.
Cody felt cold and hard. A left hook looped itself
at him. He stepped inside, thudding his fist into the
champion’s stomach. He heard the whistle of forcibly-
expelled breath. They clinched and broke. Cody
flung a left, overbalanced, and a fist rammed against
his ear. He had the champ, in a corner, flailing him
with both hands. Blind hitting, elbows and gloves,
but more than one punch thudding home. Then all
of a sudden he had no strength. Power seemed to
have seeped from his limbs. His arms were heavy
to lift. He tried to punch, but they were only pushes.
The champ, was hitting him. Punches were raking
him. He bunched his fists and arms for protection.
He took a blow on the nose without feeling it. How
much longer?... The bell.
They were in the ring with him, crowding around,
shaking his hand, patting him on the back. But their
faces seemed blurred. He shook his head to try to
clear his eyes, but that only made the noises in his
head more insistent than ever.
Callas was saying “I’ll fix it for a return, champ.,
as soon as you like. Champ., eh? It’s the big end
of the purse for us from now on.”
And then, somehow, his wife was in the ring
with him. His lips hurt when she kissed him. She
said “What about the business now, champ.? You
don’t still want to run a general store?”
Cody wished the droning in his head would stop.
He wasn’t quite sure, yet, what people were talking
about.


films will never become a great art until these ill-
bred, incompetent millionaires are reassessed at their
true value—generally 35 to 50 shillings a week for
the stars, although the character-actors are worth
far more.”
To wind up with, a terse dictum on Elstree:
“British cinematography is distinguished by haphazard
and unbusinesslike methods, a fixed inferiority obses-
sion, a puzzling stubbornness in choosing foolish
stories, and a hit-or-miss kind of technique. At the
moment their comedies are quite the best available,
but nearly all lack brilliance of cutting, and could
be enormously improved.”
ARTHUR D. WYLIE.
Such Is Colonialism.
Away back a full generation ago, from The
Bulletin came books —different, distinctive —that
were a delight in form and content to our elders, and
which, by their Australianness, were productive of
thrilled enchantment in us younger readers. In 1903
came the daddy of them all. It was a genial mammoth
entitled Such Is Life, by Tom Collins (Joseph Furphy).
It had a green cover with a lightsome design of
waratahs sprayed thereon and repeated on its dust
jacket. Not only was it conceived and brought forth
in a high Australian spirit, but also in a high sense
of humor. (Go to your library and read A.G.S.’s
inimitable preface to Rigby’s Romance.)
This masterpiece, so much more than a novel,
has grown in fame and affection, has become a collec-
tor’s piece, a treasure that is passed around among
the elect. It was the crown of The Bulletin’s
publishing achievement of that era, and has justified
the discernment of A.G.S. Time, worth, consensus
of opinion and expert judgment have combined to
establish Such Is Life as an Australian classic. It is
our Don Quixote, our Les Miserables, our M'oby
Dick, our Vanity Fair. It conforms to no pattern ;
it is unmatched, as tangibly different as Australia
herself is different. It defeats comparison: it defies
imitation. By his attitude towards it any literary
Australian betrays whether he lives in a state of Aus-
tralian grace or in one of mere mental colonialism.
Like many another great work, it was not a best-
seller, Fourteen years had passed when Kate Baker
procured the remainder of the unbound stocks and
reissued them with a preface by Vance Palmer. Long
since every copy has been combed out of second-hand
shops and cheerfully bought at advanced prices.
In this original volume there were roughly
178,000 words. The retail price was 4s. 6d. Now
comes an abridged edition, price 125., from Jonathan
Cape, which is a guarantee of the style of the produc-
tion. It is edited and prefaced by Vance Palmer, and
has about 125,000 words—about 50,000 words have
been deleted. The cover is a nice blue, the dust jacket
in mourning hue —appropriately, I feel.
In examining the plan of curtailment, on p. 38 I
came on this:
“Well,” said Price emphatically, “so far as workin’
i on Sunday goes, I’m bloody well sure I alius worked
on Sundays, an’ I’m bloody well sure I alius will; an’
I’m bloody well sure ’ere ain’t no cuss on me. Why,
I dunno what the hell a cuss is!”
It was so commonplace, so lacking in the old
charm, that I sought the original:
“Well,” said Price emphatically, and qualifying every
word that would bear qualification, “so fur as workin’
on Sunday goes, I’m well sure I alius worked on Sun-
days, an’ I’m well sure I alius will; an’ I’m well sure
’ere ain’t no cuss on me. Why, I dunno what the
(complicated expletive) a cuss is!”
Hell is not a complicated expletive. This is not
abridgment; this is alteration of the text. On p. 27:
“No, by Cripps! ” responded my countryman emphati-
cally. “Not me. That cove’s a blurry liar ” Cripps
instead of Cripes is probably a typographical slip, but
blurry instead of (adj.) surely is an impertinence. On
p. 39, “Good bloody shot!” and “My bloody
colonial!” replace “Good (ensanguined) shot!” and
“My (ensanguined) colonial!” “O, what a (adj.) lie!”
has been whittled to “Oh, what a lie!” thus robbing
it of the endearing affection of the original. On p.
64 (sheol) once and (adj.) twice are omitted from the
one paragraph. On the same page “(Adj.) little on’y
his horns” has become “Little on’y his horns” ; “
it, man, don’t swear ; not now, anyway. I’ll fetch
these ten across, an’ they’ll (adv.) soon snake him
out” has come down to “Blast it, man, don’t swear ;
not now, anyway. I’ll fetch these ten across, and
they’ll bloody soon snake him out.” Hell is a com-
monplace word to substitute for the picturesque
{sheol). Thus, on and on, distinguished passages,
originally rendered rare by parentheses, have become
dull and ordinary, or “vulgar and brutal,” as another
friend of Furphy has complained. Such editing, or
turning the gun of expurgation backsyfore, is surely
a lapse in a sense of humor as well as in artistic
perception.
The frequency of the parentheses was one of
the divertingly original characteristics of the book.
In days when such words were not admitted to respec-
table print, the device was a tour de force. Nothing
better demonstrated the impish strain which mingled
with philosophical intellectuality in an all-inclusive
sense of humor. Anyone acquainted with the men
whom Furphy portrays could by those parenthetical
suggestions supply every missing word. If Furphy
were alive now, when the three prohibited Bs —one
adjective and a noun of each gender—are used as
terms of endearment among the smart, regardless of
sex, he would doubtlessly accept the change in
vocabulary humorously and intelligently.
On p. 44 of the original is a passage concerning
the riding of the redoubtable Cleopatra, recently
swapped. He has just shown his skill in throwing a
rider:
“I wouldn’t mind if I had my mare back again,”
I remarked as I approached Cleopatra’s head. “By
Jacob’s staff I swear I have no mind of trying con-
' ' elusions with this fellow for a dull, sickening”
The adjectives were shorn of their noun, for Cleo-
patra, accurately gauging his distance, suddenly sprung
round and lashed out with both hind feet. You could
have struck a match on the smoothest part of my
earthly tabernacle as I dodged him by about half an
inch. Then he went on cropping the grass as before,
while I looked round and inquired with sickly bravado,
“What noble Lucumo comes next, to taste our Roman
cheer?”
But the bullock-drivers silently repudiated the grim
invitation and hurried back to their work.
This passage —pp. 62-63 of the abridged edition —
has been treated thus:
“I wouldn’t mind if I had my mare back again,” I
remarked as I approached Cleopatra’s head. Cleopatra,
accurately gauging the distance, suddenly sprang round
and lashed out with both hind feet. You could have
struck a match on the smoothest part of my earthly
tabernacle as I dodged him by about half an inch. Then
he went on cropping the grass as before, while I
looked round with sickly bravado.
But the bullock-drivers silently repudiated the grim
invitation and hurried back to their work.
In this case “his distance” has been humorlessly
changed to “the distance,” and the dropping of one
“TOM COLLINS.”
of the most apposite and characteristic quotations
leaves an unstitched rent in the text; without it the
bullockies repudiate an invitation which they did
not receive.
Similarly, on p. 26, to drop the boast made by
Rufus of winning a new saddle is a clue lost which
is needed later. Pages 32 to 34 have nearly all
gone, taking with them fine doses of that egalitarian-
ism to which the preface draws attention.
Why was the controversy about Burke and Wills
deleted? It is a trustworthy record of the opinion
of the day. It concerned men who had seen these
explorers alive a passage irreplaceable, amusing,
corrective and trenchantly Australian. It would have
been of particular interest now to place against the
reawakening interest in that ill-fated expedition.
All the friends of Joseph Furphy are eager to
gain a larger audience for his work. Vance Palmer
has lately been to the centre of literary association in
London. I have not had the privilege of discussing
this book with him, but if a litterateur of his high
integrity deemed it necessary to alter as well as to
abridge the text in any particular, however small, he
would do so only after serious consideration and to
the best of his judgment. If such “editing” of this
nobly indigenous work was the only way to gain
English attention for it, then our very feeble status
as colonial writers is painfully exposed. This would
account also for some of the callow selections and
dubious praisings by London publishers and reviewers
of matter purporting to be Australian, but which
arouses derision both for its quality and its classi-
fication among those who do not slavishly accept out-
side styles and forms.
I hope that there is some less depressing explana-
tion.
Of course much of the treasured fabric remains.
That rapscallion Pup still loops himself along
the plain and is the cause of his idolatrous master
being thrust naked into a community which grows
hysterical at the news of an uncovered member of
its own species being abroad. ‘The bullocks bogged
in Riverina mud still strain under the flaying whips:
Then thirty-six picked bullocks planted their feet
and prised, and a hundred and seventy feet of bar
chain stretched tense and rigid from the leaders’ yoke
to the pole-cap. The wagon crept forward. A low
grumble, more a growl than a bellow, passed from
beast to beast along the team —sure indication that the
wagon wouldn’t stop again if it could be taken through.
The off front wheel rose slowly on harder ground;
the off hind wheel rose in its turn; both near wheels
ploughed deeper beneath the top-heavy weight of
thirty-eight bales
Then the heavy pine whipsticks bent like bulrushes
in the drivers’ skilful hands, while a spray of dissevered
hair, and sometimes a line of springing blood, fol-
lowed each detonation—the libretto being in keeping.
Read that entire scene ; its stress, its reality, its
sheer artistry are hard to match in Australian
literature.
Turn to the tragedy of the lost child —too com-
mon in those days. We run breathlessly with the
old gin in her wonderful feat of tracking; we hear
the child’s voice, yet she is found —too late. Refer-
ence to the father of whose unfurnished life the child
was the light:
He had heard her voice calling him not an hour
before; and now, if he lived till he was a hundred,
he would never hear it again.
A great gallery of outdoor folks out of doors!
The facetiousness about amour is typical of place and
presents “Mrs. Bodysark,” who has designs upon Tom
Collins, and who scares bachelors because she has run
through three husbands and may snatch a fourth.
The irreverence for parents and bosses, the gossip and
chit-chat, the mateship, the generosity, the tricks and
meannesses, the very atmosphere of place, with much,
more more that is inexpressible—read all these things
for yourselves, fellow-Australians, and if your eyes
don’t go misty here and there, if you don’t chuckle
and laugh right out and want to find a mate to help
you savor each incident, then I must be a dodo, or
you goodness knows what kind of (complicated
expletive) moreporks not to share in my delight.
MILES FRANKLIN.
Reviewed Briefly.
FICTION . . .
Basque Moon: Princess Paul Troubetzkoy
(Robert Hale ; 7s. 6d.). Love, smuggling witchcraft
and local color, with Nemesis treading the heels of
evil and leading in a happy ending. A competent light
novel. In its better parts reminiscent of Ramuncho,
Pierre Loti’s romance of the Basque Pyrenees.
Scarecrow: A. Fielding (The Crime Club ; 7s.
6d.). By a coincidence that can only happen in light
fiction four men arrive from Provence to find death
awaiting them above the cliffs of Dover. To tell
who—being concealed in a scarecrow —was respon-
sible for bringing the culprit to book would spoil the
yarn. Worth reading to find out.
The Earl of Chicago: Brock Williams (Harrap ;
7s. 6d.). Heir to a British title, a 'young American
gangster crosses the Atlantic to investigate “this earl
racket.” Finding it as profitable and much safer than
anything Chicago has to offer, he takes a bride and
settles down, but not before a rival gangster who
comes to even up an old score has been effectively
dealt with. Brings the talkies right to your armchair.
No Left Turn: Ann Knox (The Bodley Head;
7s. 6d.). A disastrous affair at 15 with a young officer
under orders for the front drew her out of the ordi-
nary stream of life. In early womanhood she ties
up with a worn-out actor and man of many loves,
aged 50. A later affair with a man her own age
ends badly, and the actor gets her back. An effort
in the tragic vein undertaken with the materials of
light romance.
Highly Unsafe: Max Saltmarsh (Angus and
Robertson). International aeroplane thieves, with a
secret ’drome somewhere in eastern Europe, working
for an “interested” Power. Two villains and one fair
and sinister villainess guarantee the excitement. That
they pinch a ’plane from the notoriously touchy
R.A.F. guarantees the book’s title. Good of its own
improbable kind,
Chinese River: J. Van Dyke (Robert Hale ; 7s.
6d.). Romantic adventures of an Anglo-American girl
who found herself thrown on her own resources in
the Flowery Land not long after the Great War.
The writer seems to know his China, both “up-river”
and the seaport towns. He gives some credible
portraits of resident foreigners, Russian, German,
American and British. Ends with the lovers sailing
hand-in-hand on the yellow bosom of the Yangtze.
Looking After Sally Ann : Renee Shann (Collins ;
7s. 6d.). Susan Jones was a mother’s help with small
expectations of romance, but she was devoted to ador-
able little Sally Ann, and when Sally is “discovered”
by the talkies she naturally goes along to look after
her. She has lots of fun, and when the pairing off
is done in the last few pages she gets a promising
young producer —the one she’d had her eye on for
some time.
The Dark Ships: Hulbert Footner (The Crime
Club ; 7s. 6d.). Neill told her not to go out with that
guy Prescott, but she was headstrong. When next
he saw her she was lying in a faint with a revolver
and Prescott’s corpse beside her. She didn’t do it,
but there is a lot of trouble before the cops are called
off and the marriage registrar gets a chance to earn
a couple of dollars. In unwinding the coil the author
plays fair with the reader.
Books of To-day (Angus and Robertson). A
small handbook containing titles and descriptions of
current Australian and overseas literature. Covers
almost all classifications, and includes books recently
released by the Australian censor. Useful.
New numbers in the remarkably successful
“Penguin” reprints (6d. in England, 9d. in Australia)
include Tarka the Otter, Henry Williamson; The
Poacher, H. E. Bates; Lolly Willows, Sylvia T.
Warner; Sir Isumbras at the Ford, D. K. Broster;
These Charming People, Michael Arlen; Greenery
Street, Denis Mackail ; The Green Lacquer Pavilion,
Helen Beauclerk; Undertones of War, Edmund
Blunden.


=£/
. Hit
'■h
A\
33
*Fr,
="7
'//;
A\ W vA
A 7
lA
*
'/IIIiil;
ft
CS
///
n
'i
W*
M
M
%S 8
lh
>
OVER TWENTY MILLION
WORDS A YEAR
are exchanged by theA.W.A.Communication Services.
The Beam Wireless Service is available for the trans-
mission of messages to most parts of the world, and
Wireless Telephone stations of world range enable
Australians to converse with their friends and business
associates overseas. Pictures and photographs are
transmitted and received between Australia and Eng-
land via the Beam Picturegram Service.
For more than twenty-four years wireless services have
been conducted on ships at sea for the safety of life
and for the interchange of public wireless telegrams
between ship and shore.
A.W.A. also operates the Pacific Islands radio services
in New Guinea, Papua and Fiji, for the interchange of
messages between those countries and Australia.
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS
(AUSTR ALASIA) LIMITED
r.


*
ROYAL
PURPLE
PARA
'. ... ■ ,
*
SkJMte lilil
- r
mm
:
IB
''
ns j
- w . ,„,
:: : A;;;|-■:
,! !•> .:,"
1 M Us
mmm
j*
, ::;>?■
H
■
1 v
\\.
H 11l
: m
mm
fcsse*
m
s
m
i ms
WwM
%
&>&* A . v :;', -f ?
■*~s
rs
Grape Picking in Seppelt’s Royal Purple Para Vineyard .


PEACE GESTURE.
“When Louis Napoleon made a descent on Boulogne in 1840, one of his soldiers bore a live representation of the Imperial Eagle on his helmet. Detractors asserted
that the bird was really a vulture, and was enticed to remain in position with hunks of bacon. Historical note.
“it’ s an age of substitutes, you know, Joe; and it’ll look like a dove from a long way off.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : National Mutual Buildings, 91
King William Street, Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Saywell Buildings, 115 Lambton
Quay, Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London,
E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months,, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
To ANY address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji and
United Kingdom via “All Sea Route,” 2d. New
Hebrides and United Kingdom via France or
America, 3d. To all other places, 4d.
MR. LYONS'S PEACE PACT.
Delegates to the 1937 Imperial Conference were
hardly seated before the Australian Prime Minister,
flanked by supplementary Ministers, advisers, secre-
taries, etc., was on his feet enunciating loyalty plati-
tudes, a proposal for a pact among nations bordering
on the Pacific and some points of an already dis-
credited foreign policy, warranted, if anybody took
any notice, to involve the Empire in every squabble
in the world from now till Doomsday.
As to Mr. Lyons’s reaffirmations of Australia’s
loyalty, such things no doubt are expected, though
worth cabling to Australia at length, save as
padding to a speech barren of constructive statesman-
ship. Australia has demonstrated its loyalty con-
clusively enough for this to be taken for granted. The
war should not have passed out of memory; the
manifestations of individual loyalty evinced by the
Coronation were as warm here as in England itself;
while the Irish Free State and the Union of South
Africa assert the right to remain neutral in British
wars, Australia has refused even to consider it, Statute
of Westminster or ho Statute of Westminster; and
it is certain that, if the most dangerous foreign policy
(hat Britain has ever had —that followed for 17 years
(o the end of 1936 —had brought the war that pacifists,
prelates, press and politicians wanted it to bring, Aus-
traha would have been there. That is not patriotic
bombast; it is clear fact.
As to Mr. Lyons’s proposed “pact,” this in itself
and in the publicity given to it in the press freely
exposes the mental bankruptcy of all concerned. It
was alleged to have been instantly approved by
America, Japan, France and Britain. The fact was
that none of these countries approved it. It was
obscurely referred to by a few newspapers, press arro-
gance, as usual, construing such opinions as represen-
tative of whole countries. The countries most liable
to be interested—America and Japan—cold-shouldered
if. In both these countries is assiduously pursued the
very foreign policy which League of Nations devotees.
Soviet adorers and cranks of all kinds declare would
be poison to the British Empire. That policy is the
positive policy of complete independence. Neither
country feels itself directed on a Heaven-appointed
mission of maintaining the map of the world un-
altered. Neither will be committed in advance to
waste its manhood in every minor or major war that
happens to get started. Both decline to be the world’s
busybodies putting a finger into every scalding pie.
Each stands compact in its own solidarity; and there
is nobody of com monsense who does not respect them
for it.
Mr. Lyons’s “pact” amounts to a suggestion to
those countries that they should forthwith scotch
their brand of foreign policy in favor of his, which
would be sheer effrontery if anyone believed for a
moment that Mr. Lyons had considered its impli-
cations. The certainty is that Mr. Lyons delivered
this “idea” in that paternal spirit which leads him
to regard the world as an enlargement of his own
admirable family, and which consequently keeps him
an enthusiastic admirer of that Big Family fiction the
League of Nations.
For one thing, his “pact” would involve America
in guaranteeing the integrity of the Dutch East Indies.
America will have nothing of this, and, as the pro-
posal of the “pact” implicitly commits Australia to
help the Dutch to hold these possessions, it would be
no bad notion to make it perfectly clear that Aus-
tralia wants none of it either. The future of India,
which country Britain’s sentimental foreign policy of
the past couple of decades looks increasingly like
losing from the Empire, would be another matter
involved—one, too, that America would not touch
with a 40ft. pole, and Australia does not regard with
mounting enthusiasm. Then there is Japan, and there
is Manchukuo, not yet acknowledged as a Japanese
accomplishment, though the fact is patent enough.
Under such heads the implications are endless,
and, save to anyone bemused by the League of
Nations Big Family fallacy, they would have been
obvious from the start. Apart from territorial pos-
sessions and the maze of obligations and counter-
obligations thereby implied, there are the whole ram-
parts of foreign trade for the “pact”-makers to ramble
over. In this respect, coming from the head of a
Government whose solitary contribution to foreign
policy has been a costly wrangle with one of the
countries concerned and a climb-down, and with the
other country an equally foolish and profitless dis-
pute, the “pact” suggestion must have sounded to
statesmen in both Japan and America like a crowning
achievement in impertinence, if they did not rate it
as childishness.
Imagining that Japan and America would aban-
don their foreign policies, and that they could amic-
ably rearrange their trade policies, there would remain
a little for Australia to do on its own account in this
latter aspect of the “pact.” Its little would be nothing
less than complete reorientation of its own trading
arrangements, especially in regard to its British prefer-
ences and the protection of its secondary industries.
The more the “pact” proposal is considered the
more preposterous it turns out to be. It is in the
prevailing fashion for sentimental humbug, and that
is the best that can be said for it.
The points of foreign policy in Mr. Lyons’s
London oration are no better than his “pact.” They
are worse. They amount to nothing else but an ill-
timed pandering to the incurable sentimentalists who
are now struggling to revive the so-called League of
Nations with Britain’s brand-new stocking up in arms
to back it. Certainly Mr. Lyons is not faithfully
presenting current Australian opinion in his declara-
tion of our “fidelity to the League.” He is still men-
tally back in the dangerous times when there was
some as it has turned out, misguided—reliance on
the potential efficacy of that wretched instrument.
It having failed so disgracefully that to all but addicts
it is a laughing-stock, it now provides the further
laughable entertainment of its devotees trying to paste
patches over its patches and get it to work again.
Give cranks their choice of toys, and they will plav
for ever. But such toys should be left to cranks.
There is one fit, forthright and necessary policy
for the British Empire, the mind-our-own-business
policy: sufficiently-armed, self-reliant independence,
with friendly co-operation with all other nations of
a similar outlook and as imbued as this Empire with
the spirit of peace. By that measurement the out-
standing country is obviously the American Republic.
It abides by the clear right of free political initiative.
Only this year, after having abdicated it for two
decades, Britain has got back to the exercise of that
right. In consequence it is now regaining general
respect, and is nearer to a common understanding
with the American Republic than ever before. No
pact more binding than such an understanding is
necessary between nations so closely related in ideals
and mental processes, and nothing imaginable is more
assuring of the continuance of world peace than the
increasing of that understanding.
What has not yet dawned on Mr. Lyons is that,
since he adopted his parrot-cry of “Follow Britain,”
Britain has taken another, and a safer, road.
Killing No Offence.
In one domain at least the jury system is a palpable
and disastrous failure. Under the criminal law as it
stands, it is waste of time to bring manslaughter
charges against drivers of cars that have killed foot-
passengers on the public highway, where the dead
had as much right to be as the living. Juries will not
convict.
There was a case in N. S. Wales—where 100
persons have been killed in “road accidents” in the
last two months—in which a car mounted a footpath
and crushed the life out of a child who had been
playing there and had stooped to pick up a toy—-
incidentally, it was Christmas Day. In the car were a
young man and his girl. He had a driver’s license ;
she hadn’t. Their first story was that the young man
was at the wheel when the juggernaut slew the child ;
after police interrogation, they altered it and admitted
that the young woman was driving. The verdict was
the familiar “Not guilty.”
Last week a driver who had hit and run was up
for “felonious slaying” of an old woman—she was
72—at night on the Pacific Highway at Greenwich,
Sydney. He said nothing about it, even to his wife,
until a police constable arrived at his home and saw
the car in his garage—“with a damaged headlight and
mudguard, and blood on the lamp and bonnet.” He
“told’ the constable that he “did not know how the
blood got there, and said it was news to him that
there had been an accident.” Taken to the Chatswood
police station, he was examined some hours later by
a doctor, who “came to the conclusion that he was
slightly under the influence.”
This the accused denied in the witness-box; he
never drank spirits, and prior to the accident had
had only three beers.
He was proceeding at about 30 miles an hour
beyond the St. Leonards railway station when a dark
iorm appeared suddenly, hurrying across the road,
about a car’s length away. He did not have time to
apply the brakes or sound the horn; he had no hope
of avoiding the person; the only thing he could do
was to swerve.
And, in cross-examination; —
He did not realise that when his car struck the
woman she was carried along the roadway for 20
yards. He did not pull up because he was paralysed
with shock; he was not responsible for his actions
after the collision. His denial that there had been an
accident was a clumsy way of trying to keep it from
the police till he saw a solicitor.
A Cabinet Minister and others gave evidence of
character, and the jury returned its verdict “after a
brief retirement.” The verdict was the usual one, and
there were the usual noisy expressions of approval,
which were “silenced by court officials.” Meanwhile
the old woman remains dead.
It is, of course, useless to point out that it is not
the practice of old women of 72 to go “hurrying across
the road” at night, especially a road like the Pacific
Highway, habitually used by hogs as a speedway. As
a rule, old men and women, invalids, convalescents,
maimed soldiers and younger cripples can’t hurry
across the road at any time. Children can, and do,
but even hogs might be expected to have some con-
sideration for the ways of children. It seems useless
likewise, to continue with manslaughter charges while
the minds of jurors are dominated by pity for the
living, though their own mothers or offspring mav
as an indirect result of their pity be hurled violently
into the company of the forgotten dead.
Either these cases should be taken away from
juries altogether or the law should be altered. Altered
in the direction of allowing a jury that shrinks from
sending a slayer-in-a-car to gaol to bring in
an alternative verdict—“ Conviction recorded,” say-
leaving it to the Judge to order the convicted party
to recompense the parents or dependants of his victim,
with a specified term of imprisonment for wilful
default—even for the term of his natural life. A poor
alternative, perhaps, but it might help to preserve life,
which the stereotyped “Not guilty” verdict can
never do. The effect of that is to deepen
the impression that killing is no murder nor man-
slaughter nor even a punishable peccadillo when com-
mitted by a person driving a dangerous vehicle on
the King’s highway, and intent on making a swift
passage from one place to another—probably that he
may do something silly at the end of the journey.
S.P.C.S.P.
Ac i ing on the notion that if the people are prepared
to lie down to it Government (Australian pattern)
wih be only too delighted to put the boot into them,
an organisation calling itself the Sports Protection
League has been formed in Sydney. It will be known
as the S.P. League for short, and accurately. It is
a society for the prevention of cruelty to the s.p.
bettor. It gathers from Ministerial pronouncements
that the Stevens Government intends bringing down
anti-s.p. legislation, and, foreseeing severe restriction
in the broadcasting of races, interference with the
privacy of the telephone and other Governmental
intrusions upon the liberty of the subject, it weighs
in with some opposition in advance.
If its guessing is- right, the S.P. League is right
again in asserting that the Stevens Government has no
mandate for doing any of these things. Any Gov-
ernmental infringement upon the already shamefullv
whittled liberty of the subject without his specific
consent is something to be resisted by everybody
competent to mark a ballot-paper.
Sydney is a particular sufferer under such
encroachment. Through an Act worked in as a war-
time measure, and continued out of funk at the
wowser vote, the largest city in the Commonwealth
is by night a dark and gloomy mausoleum. Nobody
walks abroad in it after dark unless he is on a police
beat, has a wretched home or is having his night out
at the talkies, f hat this is not the natural inclination
of Sydney people is clearly demonstrated on such
extremely rare occasions as Coronation Night. Then,
when there was a little gaiety infused into the place,
people thronged the streets in thousands.
It is sheer bunkum to suggest that they all turned,
out in a pure spirit of loyalty. There are no more
enthusiastically loyal people anywhere in the Empire,
but there are also no people more starved of a bit
of after-dark brightness. That is why they were there.
Coronation Night was to the general run of people
like the annual seaside treat to children of the Far
West.
The formation of the S.P. League is a symptom of
the strong feeling that prevails—though rarely articu-
late against this place being handed over to any
further extent to the mercies of wowsers. For there
is definite evidence that the league represents the
feelings of an enormous number of people. If the
Government doubts this, it can easily put it to the
test. Let it do what, without a mandate in this matter,
it would be proper for it to do—let it make out clearly
what it proposes towards suppressing s.p. and stand
on its proposals as a major election issue. If the S.P.
Leaguers are guessing rightly about those proposals, it
is certain that the Government would be ditched.
It would deserve to be dumped at the same
address if it either brought in measures no better
than those that continue to cost the country £2 a
minute in court work or measures running as counter
to the wishes of the great majority of the people as
the blackout of Sydney runs counter to them. On
the point of this majority the Commissioner of Police
has estimated that 75 p.c. of the people are given to
s.p. betting ; another high police official has declared
that 85 p.c. would be more like it. Not only are Aus-
tralians nationally addicted to gambling, but they
regard a gamble as an ordinary right. This is
ingrained in them, and any wowser who sets himself
to convert them faces a plainly impossible job. It
is an acceptance that it is useless to rail against. The
feeling has been so fed and encouraged by horse-
racing, dogracing and lotteries that it has got into
the blood.
Therefore, if the Stevens Government proposes
merely repressive measures it will succeed only in
driving s.p. underground. It is bad enough in that
respect now. Through having to do the distasteful job
of trying to root it out, the N. S. Wales police have
achieved an undeserved notoriety which it will take
them many years to live down, and in the meantime
will be no help to them in their proper job of enforc-
ing real laws which, unlike repressive s.p. legislation,
have general public approval.
In any case, the S.P. Leaguers will bs. certain of
wide support if they insist on the Government secur-
ing public approval before it attempts to take away
from the people anything that they now regard as a
common right. If the Government has any idea of
playing fair it will make concrete any repressive
proposals it has in mind and submit them to the vote.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Total and Abject Surrender.
The Lyons Government’s much-advertised and long-
prepared proceedings against the Communist move
ment were withdrawn last week ‘ with dramatic
suddenness.” The Attorney-General was. the plaintiff
in a High Court action against the Friends of the
Soviet, and in another against the Communist party,
a counter-action, brought by one Thomas, who
claimed £5OOO damages for the destruction of The
Soviets To-day” and for the prevention of its
transmission through the Australian post, was with-
drawn at the same time. All friendly-like.
“No explanation was given,” and it may be that
one of the terms of this ignominious surrender is that
the Commonwealth pays all costs. In any case, the
public may now see what the Lyons Government s
professions of undying hostility to the Communist
movement are worth. This humiliating fiasco coin-
cided with the appearance in the Melbourne “Argus’
of articles declaring that Australia has been stormed
at with shot and shell in the form of Communist
propaganda and demanding action from the Govern-
ment with the putty spine and the rubber knees. It
was all labor in vain, especially as the “Argus” and
other Great Dailies continue to publish scarcely dis-
guised Communist propaganda in their Spanish war
“news” and Tory leader-writers hysterically champion
the side which is championed by the “Workers’
Weekly” and “The Soviets To-day.”
But it was reserved for Tummas Paterson, of
Mrs.-Freer-case celebrity, to give the perfect exhibi-
tion of calm, settled, self-satisfied, drivelling fatuity.
On the very day on which his Government’s anti-
communist suits collapsed, Tummas issued the solemn
warning that “sufficient power exists under both Com-
monwealth and State laws to enable appropriate action
to be taken against any person engaged in subversive
propaganda.” These dreadful words were addressed,
at a safe distance, to the German Count Von Luckner,
who is said to be coming to Australia, though there
is not a shred of evidence that he is coming as a poli-
tician ; Tummas wound up by saying that if the
stranger does come “he will be cautioned before land-
ing against making any statements or using propa-
ganda that might be detrimental to law and order.”
So much for the coalition Government and its
anti-Communist pretensions. It is interesting to com-
pare the resolution in which the Federal A.L.P. execu-
tive repudiated Communism last month.
The Australian Labor party hereby refuses affiliation
to the Communist party, and dissociates itself from the
policy, methods and propaganda of the Communist
party and all its auxiliary organisations. It declares the
Communist party to be an anti-Labor political organ-
isation. It declares, furthermore, that the Communist
party is in direct conflict with the policy, platform and
constitution of the Australian Labor party.
But the good sense and good feeling of plain
people are the stoutest bulwarks against the Oriental
socialism called Communism which is enforced in
Russia with truly Oriental ferocity; and they were
Australia’s stoutest bulwarks during the depression,
though flabby politicians claimed to have “saved the
country.”
From the Dregs of the Bucket.
Somehow the impending Italo-German invasion of
.Spain, of which the.“new” Sydney “D.T.”• “learned
authoritatively in Rome,” failed to materialise. So
did the “terrific German bombardment of Bilbao,
planned for Coronation Week.” But the “Cronk
News” can’t be put off the scent by little accidents like
those. Mixing, as it does, in “the most authoritative
circles in Vienna,” it has got the straight griffin about
another grisly plot:
The struggle for independence by Austria, Czecho-
slovakia, and later by the other Danubian States will
become more acute than ever within the next few weeks.
An agreement is said to have been reached recently in
Berlin and Rome to wait until after the Coronation and
then to take most drastic action against these States
unless the Western European Powers made it clear
during their London discussions that they would take
strong steps to defend them.
Granny “Herald” attached so much importance
to this intelligence that she adorned it with an inch
and a half of headings—DANUßlAN STATES
MENACED BY GERMANY AND ITALY. PLANS
FOR DRASTIC ACTION (from Our Special Repre-
sentative). Ten to one it is as rank a lie as the Ger-
man bombardment planned for Coronation Week, and
the Fascist invasion of which the “new” “D.T.”
“learned authoritatively in Rome.”
Mullet and Muddle.
Once more the migrating shoals of sea-mullet are
making their annual northward passage along Austra-
lia’s eastern coasts, countless tons of rich sea-food.
Weight for weight, the Australian sea-mullet is among
the most nutritious of all fish. Its size, shape and
texture render it almost the perfect fish for canning ;
smoked, it is better-flavored than any bloater or
“haddie,” and the smoked roes, under the name of
“Batarrik,” are saleable at high prices and in any
quantity throughout Moslem countries as religiously-
allowable food during the two great annual fasts.
Science has discovered new ways of preserving
flesh and vegetable foodstuffs over long periods, with
retention of flavor and nutritive values. The most
successful of all efforts in this direction has been the
brine-chilling of fish at a few degrees above freezing-
point. So -cheap and simple is the operation that the
plant is installed on many trawlers in place of ice.
So effective is the result that experts fail to discrimi-
nate between fresh-taken fish and those which have
been in storage for months. Other methods have
yielded almost equally remarkable results. In the
U.S.A., for example, the cold-storage life of haddocks
has been doubled by keeping them in carbonic acid
gas instead of air.
The chairman of the Queensland Fish Board
comes in here: “Unfortunately,” this gentleman says,
“fish is not like any other commodity. It is subject
to extremes of scarcity and glut through weather con-
ditions and the habits of different species. Could
regularity of supplies be assured, much .of the diffi-
culty of the fish supply would be overcome.”
In other words, unless the fish and the weather
will alter their habits to suit the Queensland Fish
Board’s ways of thinking, nothing can be done about
it. Queensland must go on wasting vast quantities
of valuable food in glut time, and seeing prices rise
prohibitively when supplies are scanty. Any notion
of considering the installation of storage methods such
as are used in a dozen countries as elementary factors
in the handling of an important food supply simply
hasn’t occurred to the Queensland Fish Board.
A Chance for Port Stephens.
“Paintwork is reckoned more important than gunnery,
so come in and make yourselves look pretty.”
— Rear-Admiral Percy Scott to a pre-war naval squadron.
Nearly everything that can be thought of to stop the
establishment of a flying-boat base at Rose Bay,
Sydney, has been trotted out by the local aldermen
and members. Flying-boats, it seems, would interrupt
the golfers, distract the swimmers, check the exuber-
ance of the speedboat boys, whom everybody loves,
and outrage the aesthetic susceptibilities of people who
can now glut their taste for the beautiful by gazing
on the local picture theatre —nothing has been for-
gotten except that flying-boat pilots might contract
water on the knee.
One of the local members, who got in at a by-
election against U.A.P. opposition, told Minister
Thorby that he had the U.A.P. Government’s author-
ity for saying it was agin the base. The U.A.P. Gov-
ernment —though reminded by a U.A.P. lawyer that
it was supposed to represent New South Wales, “not
New South Head-road”—didn’t contradict the young
gentleman, nor did Mr. Thorby say straight out that,
since defence came into the picture, the matter would
be decided regardless of local Ministers, members,
aldermen, cinemamen and dustmen. Mr. Thorby, who
can be a holy terror on other occasions, was in this
instance quite meek and mild.
Somebody has suggested that a suitable site could
be found in Port Stephens. It seems highly probable.
In ordinary circumstances Port Stephens, being one
of the neglected harbors, would not receive a moment’s
consideration, but if experts’ reports are favorable the
Government might be driven to choose it in sheer
desperation. Naturally, the national interest must
run a bad second to the feelings of the members,
aldermen, flat landlords, golfers, “commodores,”
swimmers and speedboat boys of Rose Bay.
"Cramping Provincialism."
Two able and eloquent old men have been warning
Australians of the imperfections of the Constitution
under which they lead their national life.
To Isaac Isaacs, who was a maker and inter-
preter of the Constitution, Australia has entered “a
changed world” with “disjointed, clumsy, ineffective,
obsolete equipment.” It is “clinging to the narrow
legal isolation of accustomed, but now cramping,
provincialism in preference to the broad fraternity, and
free co-operation of nationhood.”
As William Morris Hughes sees it, “We are
living in an aeroplane age, and trying to carry on
the government of the country with machinery suit-
able to a bullock-dray era.”
The great merit of the British Constitution is its
elasticity. It can be and has been adjusted to every
change with practically no disturbance of the fabric of
society. The Federal Constitution has no elasticity.
It is all true; but the position can never be im-
proved by asking the people to sanction hastily impro-
vised expedients or to approve of alleged amendments
such as were submitted at the instance of clamorous
sections in March, the idea being to prohibit the free
movement of goods within the Commonwealth so
that those sections or their agents might charge what
they pleased for their particular goods. When a
Government possessing the people’s confidence asks
them for a grant of power that would really benefit
Australia by making the national Parliament supreme
in national matters the people, in The Bulletin’s
opinion, will rise to the occasion, as they did in 1928,
when the main question was whether the nation
should take over the provincial debts.
A Coalmining Town's Future.
Under amended methods Vic.’s State-owned coalmine
at Wonthaggi is again being worked, but, while the
disaster-prompted inquiry into the safety of operations
still drags on, the future of the town is perturbing
long-sighted citizens.
The coalfield, including the still undeveloped
Kirrak area, is expected to produce for only another
25 years. First exploited in 1909, when a Newcastle
(N.S.W.) strike left the Victorian railways short of
coal, Wonthaggi showed annual profits until 1930.
Since 1931-32 its annual loss has never been less
than £77,000. Successive Ministries have been showing
increasing irritation at the revenue drain ; and frequent
stop-work periods at Wonthaggi have not improved
matters.
Modern demand for black coal is decreasing with
the building of more oil-burning ships, the advance
of aviation, the further development of hydro-
electricity and a more general adoption of internal-
combustion engines. Victoria itself, through the
State exploitation of the brown-coal deposits at
Yallourn, is helping to whittle down the black-coal
market.
But the fortunes of 11,000 people depend on a
living Wonthaggi. The modern township is served
by State-operated rail, road, water and electricity
services, and estimated capital value of its public
buildings is £40,000, of its business premises £158,000,
and of its dwellings £388,000. Its economic and social
prospects are worth the cost of any investigation likely
to save the town from gradual extinction.
In the British Isles munition factories are being
widely scattered and duplicated with the object. of
preventing any successful war-time raid from upsetting
the regularity of supplies. Australia is turning its
attention to manufacturing its own munitions and
aeroplanes; but factory sites, which become danger
spots immediately there is any crisis, are being chosen
in major cities and their suburbs. Wonthaggi, 86
miles from Melbourne by rail and eight miles from
the limited sea-access offered by Inverloch, is both
far enough away from the metropolis and close
enough to the State’s nerve-centre to be worth con-
sideration for the future manufacture of munitions.
Some such planning is needed unless Wonthaggi
is to go the way of the dozens of Australian towns
which mushroomed with the exploitation of minerals
and faded with their exhaustion.
Poisons.
Evidence before the N. S. Wales Chain Store Com-
mission strongly supported The Bulletin’s long-
standing contention that the Poisons Acts of all the
States, except Victoria, need thorough overhaul.
The N. S. Wales Act is 35 years old. In 35
years the whole science of poisoning has changed.
Thirty-five years ago the would-be suicide
took prussic acid without any water
And died like a duke’s or a duchess’s daughter.
A year or two later, Queensland, discovering, through
an insurance case, that any schoolboy or schoolgirl
old enough to talk could buy cyanide of potassium
at a photographer’s, tightened up the law.
Since 1902 the whole of the tar-product range of
poisons has come into use, and most of them are
more dangerous than cyanide, arsenic or strychnine,
because less painful and less easy to detect. Barbituric-
acid products are sold freely in a hundred forms to
anybody who likes to buy them. There have been
deaths from luminal poisoning and from the use of
highly-poisonous essential oils which may be bought
freely without formality.
The position regarding the limited list of drugs
on the poisons schedule in N. S. Wales would be
Gilbertian if it were not so grim. A householder who
wants to buy an ounce of strychnine will be called
on by the chemist, under the law, to give detailed
particulars of the uses to which it is to be put, and
he must sign the poisons-book. But anyone can mix
strychnine or cyanide with another ingredient or so,
label it weed-killer, vermin-killer or sheep-dip, and sell
it ,by the ton or the barrel. At the inquiry mentioned
the N. S. Wales Pharmacy Board registrar produced
a pepper-tin labelled “to be used for the destruction
of vermin.” It contained a powder made up with
an 80 p.c. strychnine content.
The inefficiency of the Act expresses itself clearly
in figures. Deaths from poison in N. S. Wales were
given by the registrar as one in 145,000 of population
p.a. in N. S. Wales, one in 237,000 in Queensland
and one in 307,000 in Victoria, where modern poisons
are on the schedule.
One anomaly shows how ridiculous the whole
thing is. The law keeps a tight hold over the sale
of absolute alcohol. If this fell into the hands of
an irresponsible public, buyers might dilute it down,
injure their morals and deprive the excise collectors
of a few shillings. Therefore, absolute alcohol cannot
be sold, even as fuel, in combination with other liquids
from which it could be distilled. It must be denatured
with pyridine (a coal-tar product), wood naphtha and
some other substances which make it poisonous. Then
anybody can buy it.
Still It Goes On.
Nothing seems to stop the spate of unauthorised
spending. The N. S. Wales Stevens Government’s
record for 1935-36 has been set out in a report of
the Public Accounts Committee.
From Consolidated Revenue .. .. £1,033,698
From General Loan Fund .. .. 3,202,442
From Road Transport Funds .. .. 46,321
£4,322,461
For “unemployed-relief and for repayment of
loans” the Minister for Social Services distributed a
cool £686,799 of tax-money without Parliamentary
sanction. Parliament voted £150,000; “owing to the
difficulty of deciding which works were of a develop-
mental character,” it was decided by a Minister to
transfer £BOO,OOO from loan to revenue accounts. So
£lOO,OOO was charged against the Parliamentary vote
and £700,000 to Expenditure Suspense Account, and
when the year ended the £686,000 had been spent
without Parliament’s permission. The committee had
no comment to make.
There were other items on which it should have
had a lot to say and didn’t. The Education Depart-
ment discovered that it needed £42,000 so urgently
for sheds, minor repairs and school gardens that it
could not wait for Parliament to sanction the outlay.
The U.A.O.D. had failed to press upon the Gov-
vernment claims for subventions. This, wrote the
Minister, “may have been due to the Registrar’s pro-
nouncement that such claims would not be paid.”
The Registrar’s reason for this attitude is not dis-
closed ; anyway, the Minister overrode him and handed
out £11,640 on his own authority, though Parliament
was sitting at the time.
In the Loan account, trifling items such as “un-
employment relief, £2,069,000,” “railway rolling-stock
and equipment of refreshment-rooms, £449,575,” and
“stormwater drainage works, £366,000,” were tossed
about like extra currants thrown at a shearers’ duff.
Parliamentary control of the public purse? It
has become a merry jest in Macquarie-street, Sydney.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“D. Empson”: Every long-distance air
race has resulted in loss of life. In the
London-Johannesburg affair, which was
staged for a millionaire’s whim, three
airmen perished, and only one of the
nine entrants completed the course.
Mindful of this, no doubt, the U.S.A. has
refused to permit a transatlantic race to
be started from Republican soil. Good
on you, Uncle Sam! Plain people are fed
to the back teeth with aerial stunters and
limelighters of both sexes. Their much-
advertised exploits are as useless to the
world as circus performances, though
they expect to be paid for them thou-
sands of times as much as circus per-
formers get in their weekly pay-
envelopes, and to be searched for —to the
danger of really useful airmen and at
vast expense—when they get lost.
* * * *
“Baldy”: Censorship? The film
“Green Pastures,” after some objections
and alterations, passed the British cen-
sors, although the play on which it was
founded had been barred because it
“depicted the Deity on the stage.” The
film shows a negro’s idea of heaven, with
de Lawd as a black gentleman in clerical
garb and his white-robed angels as
negroes. English critics welcomed it for
its simplicity. No more irreverent than
a child’s ideas, it was banned by the
Australian censorship as meat too strong.
And it had had a command performance
before the King and Queen!
“W.J.E.”: In a remote and indirect
way, Napoleon had some influence on
the lives of the Duke of Windsor and
his “Wally.” Anyway, they are to have
a French civil marriage, according to the
procedure laid down in the Code
Napoleon, called the Civil Code since
the third Napoleon, who looked nothing
like a Bonaparte and may not have been
one, was captured and dethroned in
1870. By one of the articles of the code,
the female party to the civil marriage
“must live with her husband and follow
him wherever he chooses to go.” The
mayor who is to perform the ceremony
has, it seems, been busy “inoculating
children against scarlet fever.” Is there
any way of inoculating much-married
ladies against husbanditis?
■** * *
“Jamwood”: The syndicate of news-
papers that backed Mrs. Bonney for a
flight from Brisbane to Capetown are
getting a protracted run for their money
—too dashed protracted to be pleasant.
At time of writing the lady is detained
at Karachi after having been detained at
Bangkok. In Siam she tried to kill time
by writing articles on oft-written-up ruins
and elephants; but that isn’t what the
syndicate expected. It is alleged that one
editor has been heard to sing plaintively:
Our Bonney flies over the ocean,
Our Bonney (lies over the sea;
Our Bonney sends “copy” from Bangkok—
For God’s sake don’t hand it to me!
* =;= * *
“II Vecchio”: Wilhelm the Lost has
been given additional cause to regret his
fate since the death of George V. Had
there been no war, he would assuredly
have now been the doyen of the world’s
emperors, making preparations to cele-
brate next year, with pomp and pickel-
liauben, his golden jubilee on the throne
of the Reich. Only one other monarch
in Europe would have been longer on
the job—unless there had been no Span-
ish revolution —Ferdie of Bulgaria, now
so far forgotten that most people take it
for granted that he is dead. Ferdie
would be celebrating his golden jubilee
this year. Wilhelm, however, would not
have been the oldest monarch—Sweden’s
king beats him by a year at 79, with all
others a long way behind. At present
the order of awards in the European-
reign stakes is: Queen of the Nether-
lands, first (39 years); King of Italy,
second (37 years); King of Norway,
third (32 years); King of Sweden,
fourth (30 years); King of Denmark,
fifth —he is just celebrating his silver
jubilee.
* * * *
“Marco”: So they don’t eat “chop
suey” in China (R.P. 19/5/’37). I don’t
know that I blame them. Having read
so much about the dish, and its stimu-
lating and filling qualities, in O. Henry
and other American writers, I took my
courage in both hands and bespoke a
plateful of it in a Sydney eating-house
which advertises itself as specialising in
Far-Eastern comestibles. So far from
being “a perfectly wholesome hotch-
potch,” I found it so unappetising that I
couldn’t consume a fraction of the stuff.
It seemed to consist mostly of shredded
onions and other minced greenstuff which
I couldn’t identify, with here and there
a tiny scrap of meat that didn’t taste like
either beef or mutton. They charged
two bob for it, too, and another six-
pence for the saucer of rice with which,
bread being unavailable, I sought to
leaven it.
* * * *
“E.H.M.”: Cures for seasickness? I
was a passenger on the Themistocles
which left London for Australia late in
August, 1914. The first day out invalids
littered the decks, despite the millpond
calmness of the Channel. In the after-
noon a report ran around like wildfire
that a German battleship was bearing
down on us and signalling us to stop°
Inside of 10 seconds the sickest pas-
senger had rushed to the port side and
was contributing to conjectures as to
whether our steamer would be sunk or
taken to a German port. Fortunately,
the dreaded craft proved to be a French
gunboat which merely wanted to see our
papers. This scare and a subsequent one
concerning a chase by a submarine down
the African coast kept the Themistocles
amazingly free from seasickness for the
rest of the voyage.
* * * *
“M 8”: Ted still tells of his “crowded
hour” at the war. “Me an’ Jerusalem was
in a raid an’ we get bushed in the dark.
We’re sneakin’ about in mud up to our
hocks when we fall over a coupla
stretcher-bearers, both out to it. We
pick up the stretcher, thinkin’ the poor
cow under the blanket might be still
livin’, and after a nell of a time strugglin’
through the glue we find a bit o’ deserted
trench and leave the stretcher there. Then
we go back an’ drag them bearers in.
While we’re spellin’ in the trench, one
of the bearers rolls over and sighs. Jeru-
salem bends down to look at him, then
jumps for the stretcher and rips off the
blanket. There’s nothin’ in it but bottles
of champagne! Next thing I knew it’s
bright daylight an’ a lot o’ Jocks is round
us, sharing the only two bottles left.”
* * * *
“Dungeness”: The numerous fatalities
among Japanese divers in the fleets
operating north of Elcho Islands (n.-w. A.)
are merely repeating the happenings of
Torres Strait and Broome in the days
when the sons of Nippon first took up
underwater work there. Young, strong,
fatalistic, anxious to beat records and
"Any chance of that cannon going off, sailor ?”
amass big payrolls, they back their
strength against the immutable laws of
Nature and suffer accordingly. It is not
so much a matter of too-deep water as
of impatience in shortening the “staging”
delay in returning to the surface which
enables the lungs and blood to get rid
of the gas under pressure still remaining
in nerves and tissues. So serious was the
paralysis death-roll of the Thursday
Island fleets, and so obstinate the fatalis-
tic outlook of the divers, that a Japanese
Government doctor made a special visit
to instruct them against unnecessary risks.
* * * *
“Lond”: Philip Lindsay, in his new
book on coronations, reveals two things
not generally known. In June, 1914,
a bomb was found attached to the throne
in Westminster Abbey ; the seat was not
in use, nor like to have been, and the
“gesture” was attributed to the suffra-
gettes. Also, on the authority of Dr.
Foxley Norris, present Dean of West-
minster, the Scottish “nationalists,” hav-
ing got away with the (alleged) sword of
William Wallace, were recently only just
“frustrated from triumphantly dragging
their stone back to the north.” By the
irony of events the frustrating agency
was—Scotland Yard.
* * * *
“F.Y.7”: That story of the tin of
vintage-1914 bully beef (B. 19/5/’37)
reminds me of an experience of my own.
Travelling in Western Queensland with
my dad years ago, we stopped at a mail
change for a midday meal. The chap in
charge said he’d do what he could, but he
was short of supplies, not having expected
the coach for several days. It was a
blazing Barcoo midsummer day, and
after throwing some damper and a tin
of treacle on the table, along with some
preserved potatoes which looked as if
Noah had done the preserving, he banged
down a 71b. tin of Rockhampton tinned
mutton and went to look for the opener,
The tin saved him the trouble by explod-
ing. In the subsequent rush for the
door I, as the smallest, was considerably
trampled underfoot, but beyond a smart
attack of “Barcoo” for all hands there
was no further damage.
* * *
o„. r ...
, * * s , 0 room lc T
. J acb ■ Tears ago i
, h • f ,f. nt addre ssed to those
.• • , lng ? ut - Fbe adver-
. p °c a mo^. est
~’ • ; p . p . ls P a tch of something
pmnh , P m „ t „LL. v 1 ’ anc * ln due course an
P y x ainved-
* * * *
“Oxmead”: I doubt if there are many,
or any, instances in English history of
the Archbishop of York crowning
monarchs, always assuming that his
Grace, of Canterbury was available. York
certainly crowned William the Con-
queror, but only after Sigard of Canter-
bury, a sturdier Saxon, had flatly re-
fused to do so. Over 600 years later the
Primate (Sancroft) jibbed at crowning
William and Mary ; the Bishop of Lon-
don was requisitioned as a substitute
When Edward VII. came into his king-
dom both the archbishops took a hand
in the ceremony, but it was only because
the venerable Canterbury had fumbled
and nearly fallen in crowning the King
that York was given the job of doing the
like service for the Queen. In the earlier
days it seems to have been accepted that
any front-rank ecclesiastic was eligible,
and handiness obviously counted;
Stephen, for instance, was crowned by
the Bishop of Winchester. And I have
ail idea that Henry 111. was sworn in, so
to speak, by the Bishop of Gloucester;
anyway, the ceremony took place there.
It must have been the strangest one on
record; a plain gold circlet had to be
used in lieu of the crown, which had
been lost by Henry’s muddling prede-
cessor, along with other valuables, in
the Wash.
* * * *
“Adel”: W. B. Mclnnes, in Adelaide
to paint portraits of Chancellor Murray
and Vice-Chancellor Mitchell for the
Bonython Hall of the University, judges
the State’s Art Gallery to be the best
lighted in Australia. He is also particu-
larly pleased with its Australian section,
treated as its most important feature,
instead of being “dumped down in an
odd corner,” as in some other cities.
* * * *
“Norther”: Taree, on the north coast
of N.S.W., is hot favorite for the most
lasting memento of the Coronation. One
Beattie obtained from a London parks
authority about 200 acorns from the oaks
in Windsor Castle grounds. They arrived
in good condition, having been specially
packed against climatic changes on the
voyage. Local schools and the municipal
council received a share of the consign-
ment, and at least one N.S.W. town
should be able to point with pride to its
“Coronation Oaks” when those who read
this are dust.
UNFAIR.
Members of (lie Sydney Water Board have sent
an emphatic protest to the Premier because they
were overlooked in the distribution of Coronation
medals.”
Plenty as blackberries by Falstaff’s measure,
Thickly as autumn leaves they flew around,
lokens for patriotic souls to treasure
Of that glad day when George the Sixth was
crowned,
I ributes to eminence in all its phases
And civic worth’s well-merited reward.
Put here’s one rank injustice: Why the blazes,
Why did they overlook our Water Board?
Men of all stamps and callings and conditions
Received the bright memento as their due,
Captains ol industry and politicians,
Church, Army, Navy—Law 7 and Medicine,
too.
Even the Press, I'm told, was not forgotten;
And though 1 personally was ignored,
My grievance fades beside the raw and rotten
Deal that they gave the Sydney Water Board.
With ev’ry city alderman and county
Councillor—aye, and mayors from far out-
back —
Participating in th’ Imperial bounty,
It's tough that these should be denied their
whack.
1 nequitable differentiation
Could go no further. Hence they’re fairly
floored,
Wounded at heart and hot with indignation,
The chaps who constitute our Water Board.
What task is there so hard, what work so
stunning
Performed by men our parish pumps who
pull
As keeping taps continuously running
From reservoirs perpetually full?
Yet when these emblems of a Royal revel
On less distinguished citizens are poured,
Spray from the fount of honor, why the devil
Did somebody exclude the Water Board?
Stevens, old man, when you and I have
perished,
Passed, as all mortals must, beyond the pale.
These medals may be heirlooms, prized and
cherished,
And each will have attached to it a tale.
See to it, in the coming generation
When claims with such to pride of birth are
scored,
Someone may say, with honest exultation,
“Time of our good King George’s Coronation
My dad was on the Sydney Water Board.”
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“R.J.S.”: The police van had pulled
up outside a pub to collect the Satuiday
evening drunks when a little man rushed
from the bar, jumped into the conveyance
and sat as far forward as possible. “Hey!
What’s the idea?” roared the driver.
“I’m takin’ no chances,” was the hic-
cupped reply. “Last week I ’ad to ride
on the step.”
* * * *
“Three-an’-four”: The liberty allowed
to counsel in cross-examination and ad-
dress in British countries is apparently
something of a novelty to Giuseppe. In
a recent case at Cairns (N.Q.) an impas-
sioned appeal to the Bench was very un-
complimentary to Giuseppe, who expres-
sively smote the Gent. One on the pate
with a heavy book and then endeavored,
unsuccessfully, to engage him with his
fists. A fine, of £2 for contempt cooled
down the litigant.
**, * *
“Oran”: “T.T.” (B. 19/5/’37) com-
plains of the diffuseness of the political
speaker ; but how can he stretch out his
subject otherwise to the length which the
audience expects? The old campaigner
knows that padding is the only means
of keeping going for a reasonable period.
1 remember a promising candidate faring
forth from his party’s committee rooms
at Cowra (N.S.W.). He mounted a lorry,
faced the gathering in the main street, and,
speaking rapidly and admirably to the
point, had finished his speech in just seven
minutes. Up the road the opposition
candidate was talking with the experi-
ence of years on practically the same
points, and, though he said nothing more
than his youthful rival, he spun his
oration out to close on an hour. He
was voted “a good speaker,” even though
it was midwinter.
* * * *
“Clio”: Boarding - house rules (B.
19/5/’37). I once struck an up-country
joint where the regulations were dis-
played on an upstairs wall for all to
“I've found a photographer at last, dear, who knows his business.”
read. They were three in number, but
it was the preface that intrigued visitors,
I» merely stated “Below are the rules of
this house. Keep them or go.”
* * * *
“Verri”: A North Auckland motorist
was haled before the Court on a unique
charge—obstructing the progress of a fire
engine. The motorist explained that, be-
coming aware of the blaze, he naturally
wanted to see what was to be seen, and
with that object kept ahead of the fire
engine. An unsympathetic magistrate
held forth on the evils of morbid curio-
sity, and fined the offender ten shillings.
:jc Jfc
“Shamuseen”: The whiskered wheeze
of adorning the nether limbs of statuary
with pantaloons has been superseded in
West Queensland. A saleslady travelling
in lingerie had her wares liberally dis-
played all over the pub sample room, and
the opportunity was too much for the
festive crowd attending the picnic races.
They impressed the town goat into their
service, and Billy, a long-standing dis-
ciple of John Barleycorn, strolled into
the bar for his beer with his hairy shanks
chastely sheathed in ultra-modish green
scanties. The lady commercial traveller
told me in confidence, a day or two later,
that Billy was the best salesman she ever
had.
* *- * *
“J.S.”: Three days after The Bulle-
tin’s leading article on the inaccuracy of
cables printed in Sydney dailies (B.
12/5/’37), a suggestion made by The
Bulletin a few weeks earlier was
realised—the A.B.C. extended its over-
seas news service. The new service
began a few minutes after 8 a.m. and was
ushered in to the somewhat ambiguous
strains of “Anything Goes.”
*** . * .
“Dominic”: One professional train-
jumper of my acquaintance always car-
ried a sharp, steel-pronged table-tork.
Having a preference for travelling in
comfort, he patronised those closed
goods-vans with sliding doors, avoided
by many jumpers because of the ease
with which a narky guard or conductor
can sneak up and with a quick push shut
a man in, to be handed over to the Johns
at the first police stop. Inserted judi-
ciously in the sliding groove which car-
“y' can get one of these f'r a deener, Alf; an, after all, y' might as Well travel in comfort!"
ries such doors, the fork effectually frus-
trated these surprise moves —it even pre-
vented the door being locked at all, for
never a railwayman could discover the
cause of the obstruction. Most of them
gave it best after the first attempt at sur-
prise, contenting themselves with threats
of what would happen when a John came
in sight. My jumper, retaining com-
mand of the door, always obviated that
contingency by quitting in time —a thing
always possible in W.A., where the goods
train is probably the slowest-moving
vehicle on earth.
* ,* * *
“Screen”: I saw my first “picture” at
a West’s show somewhere in the heart
of Sydney about 1901. I remember dis-
tinctly a short film depicting Lord
Roberts and staff crossing the Vaal River
on the way to Pretoria. Six years elapsed
before I went for “A Ride Through the
Rockies” in a narrow alleyway of a
room in Hammersmith, London. In
1908 I was in Paris and saw there not
only my first colored film but my first
“talkie.” The “talking” came quite ob-
viously from a gramophone arrangement
on one side of the actors, who just as
obviously were opening their mouths and
emitting no sound. But the color effects
impressed me. Even now color-films are
not commonplaces, and talkies are but
eight years old. That Paris show must
have been well ahead of its time.
* * * *
“P.0.M.C.”: Reference to the ancient
who got his beard caught in a bike chain
(B. 12/5/’37) reminds me of an old
identity of Brussels in 1919 who kept his
seven- or eight-foot ziff stowed in a card-
board cylinder tucked in the “V” of his
vest. Being temporarily bewitched by
the old cove’s grandniece, I frequently
saw the elongated whiskers in all their
glory when released for combing. Some
years later, a Sydney daily published the
hirsute Belgian’s photograph and claimed
a world’s record for his outsize in chin
upholstery.
* * * *
“Flumen”: I take it that the word
“turbid” was grafted into the English
language to meet a want and to convey
the same meaning as the Latin iurbidus
(B. 19/5/’37). If that is so, when Virgil
applied the epithet to the Danube he
wasn’t thinking of its swift flow or bois-
terous currents. Webster defines “tur-
bid” as “having the lees or sediment dis-
turbed ; hence (loosely) muddy, not
clear ; used of liquids, as turbid water or
wine.”
* * * *
“Carrick, A. 8.”: “Lower Tops!” is a
bit out in his account of the burning of
the famous old clipper Lightning (B.
28/4/’37). In those days cargoes such
as wool, cotton and jute were compressed
into bales and jambed so tightly into the
hold that the pressure sometimes caused
the seams of the vessel to open slightly,
Until a ship carrying such a cargo had
“worked herself free,” as seamen used to
term it, she seemed to have no life in her
and her speed would be several knots
lower than she would log when the in-
terual pressure and the resultant stiffness
had eased. When the Lightning caught
fire, and scuttling her was attempted as a
last hope, the shots fired into the hull
produced the result which might have
been expected; as each round shot
smashed through the planking the com-
pressed wool immediately swelled and
plugged the hole again. To blame in-
accurate marksmanship for the failure to
sink her is absurd.
* * * *
“Atrax”: What is the true story of
the introduction of prickly-pear both
species—to Australia? One yarn is that
one came in as a garden and hedge plant
to Sydney about the 1830’s. Another
that when the First Fleet called at Rio
Janiero in 1787 Governor Phillip shipped
a quantity of cochineal insects as likely
to come in useful for dyeing the red mili-
tary coats of the day, together with a
number of the cactus plants on which
the insects feed. The cochineal insects
are said to have died on the way, but
the pear was brought on to provide a
future home for a new lot. A third yarn
has it that the Opuntia variety was
brought to Brisbane in the 1840’s as a
garden plant, with possibilities as a stock
food, and spread from there
* * -r- *
“Pitt St.”: Before asking where the
Blondins and their imitators had gone
(B. 19/5/’37) “J.” should have visited
Wirth’s circus, lately showing in Syd-
ney. One star turn was that of a Japan-
ese who walked easily up a rope stretched
tight at an angle of about 30deg., then
shot downward like a streak to the
ground. It took seven strong men to
break the shock of his descent.
* * * *
“Scorpio”: “Ex-Hobo” (B. 5/5/’37)
has been unfortunate in his experience
of lockup menus. Generally—in the
smaller Bananaland towns, anyway—the
catering is done by the sergeant’s wife.
$ * * *
“S.T.S.”: A misprint that deserves to
live is in a new compilation of English
Religious Verse, in Dent’s Everyman
Library. Parson Herrick wrote that on
his deathbed he would ask only a short
space “to repent some crimes.” The
sinful lino-man has made it “repeat.”
* * * *
“Errould”: I can verify a recent state-
ment that blue-eyed folk are largely
exempt from seasickness. As offsider on
a 30ft. yacht that specialised in taking
city men out to the snapper reefs I
always noted the color of our passengers’
eyes. In the majority of cases blue eyes
would be hungrily anticipating lunch-
time while dark eyes were still parting
with the remains of breakfast. Of course
plenty of dark-eyed people rapidly
become exempt, but not so quickly as
the blue-eyed. And doesn’t the same
thing apply to bilious attacks, very much
akin to seasickness in effect?
(Continued on page 50.)
HOLIDAY.
Into the wilds you’ve fled
To shoot and fish and batch,
Dressed in disgraceful togs,
An old felt on your thatch.
Time flies on silent wing;
I laze with wondrous zest,
For quiet reigns supreme,
The wireless takes a rest.
1 miss blue rings of smoke, _
Stray matches round your chair;
But most of all 1 miss
Cigar ash everywhere.
When tools and garden mould
Lie scattered in your tram,
And butts adorn the path,
My work will start again.
N.S.W.
KOALA KATE.


•^Av
m
A
20/orlt>
10 for 9 d
For real quality Tobacco...
'■ e i l "■ ' --
and for your throat’s sake
smoke
CRAVENA
w 1874 ARE made specially TO PREVENT SORE THROATS.!
the cork tipped cigarette of
THIS G EN E R AT I ON
mm
mmm
\
POLITICAL POINTS
In less than three years Menzies has
been associated with four utter fail-
ures —Kisch, James v. the Common-
wealth, the marketing referendum and
now the fiasco of the. Communist cases.
Kisch was wished on him by the Harri-
son who is leading the inglorious anti-
flying-boat agitation, but Menzies ac-
cepted the gift. It will be dreadful if the
bright young man gets the reputation of
being a chronic loser.
Coldly rejected in every other quarter,
Lyons’s offer of a Pacific peace pact was
welcomed by our new Moscow friends —
or are they allies? —as a means of “con-
fronting Japan,” and of “preventing the
terrible slaughter the Fascist aggressors
are preparing,” and of struggling to “col-
lective security in the Pacific” over “the
fixed bayonets of the Japanese Imperial-
ist. Poor old Joe thought he was prof-
fering an olive branch. Moscow glee-
fully visions it as a sword.
An R.A.A.F. ’plane engaged in “aerial
geophysical survey” work had a harmless
descent in Centralia, with Herbert Gepp
and four others, and was missing for a
couple of days. For a wonder, it
carried wireless, and its first message
began, “We don’t know where we are.”
It is equally true of the. politicians re-
sponsible for the aerial geophysical
racket.
The Moscow correspondent of Lon-
don’s “D.T.” reports that “44 Russians,
one a woman, have been executed in
Siberia for being Trotskyist spies,
wreckers and terrorists.” This is back-
page stuff nowadays, mass executions
being possibly regarded as amiable eccen-
tricities of the dear Russians. The front
page is reserved for German and Italian
atrocities vouched for by the “Cronk
News and like-minded publications.
The late Daniel Levy was member
for Woollahra, and his 1932 and 1935
majorities were overwhelming; so in
ordinary circumstances the by-election
would be a soft thing for the man with
the official U.A.P. brand on him. In
the present confused condition of the
U.A.P. anything may happen. At the last
by-election for a U.A.P. seat the branded
candidate got a terrific doing. Besides,
Stewart’s challenge to Parkhill in War-
ringah is a threat to the whole bob-a-
nob pre-selection system.
North Westralia may get a lift from
the new world demand for tantalite. Over
40 years ago the W.A. Year-Book noted
that tantalite deposits had been dis-
covered in the north and that small par-
ties were working them. It is to be hoped
that speculators will not be allowed to
lease all the likely country at a nominal
rent —a practice fashionable of late years,
though unknown when John Forrest was
consul.
Two Labor Assemblymen, Collins
(Cook) and Williams (Port Curtis), have
been going about Queensland praising
the “beautiful stock” bred on the Board
of Works sewage farm at Werribee
(Vic.) and the “wonderful pastures.”
Each acknowledges that he hasn’t seen
anything to equal what he saw at Werri-
bee. Perhaps a sense of party loyaltv
prevents both from rounding off the
story. The missing part is that a C.P.
Government, kept in office by Labor,
endangered one of the few strikingly suc-
cessful examples of State enterprise by
banning the sale of Werribee fats on
the ground that the beef is, was or may
be wormy, an assertion ridiculed by
scientists. In 1933-34 a profit of £29,100
was made on Werribee cattle. Now there
are only losses.
Queensland’s Deputy Premier Pease,
moaning over the cuts in loan money,
gave the number of unemployed as
21,000 on relief and 6000 on rations.
Mr. Brigden, the Forgan Smiths’ eco-
nomic expert, stated the figure at 15,000.
Now “Mossy” Hynes has told a deputa-
tion asking for an extra day for relief
workers that it would cost another
£1,000,000 to grant it. That works out
at about 28,000 on relief alone. Queens-
land is beginning to wish these gentle-
men would all say the same thing.
The U.A.P. Lawson, M.H.R., who got
in for Macquarie last time because people
were still nervous of Lang, and will go
out next time, is reported to have said
at Lithgow that “the Government will
be prepared to enter into favorable
agreements with companies wishing to
exploit shale-oil deposits.” In Britain an
obscure private member would be unmer-
cifully snubbed if he presumed to speak
for the Government in matters involving
imposition or sacrifice of taxes ; but in
FINAL EXPULSION OF GARDEN {AND ANOTHER ) FROM EDEN.
“An amendment directing the reopening of the Cook selection ballot to enable Mr.
Carden to contest it was rejected by 22 to 9. Mr. Willis’s appeal was discharged from the
business paper. Lang Labor report on the decisions of the Federal Labor executive which
nave been accepted in no contrite spirit .
Australia nowadays these impertinences
bring no rebuke. Australians pay vast
sums for government—£lo4,ooo,ooo in
1935-36 —and get Governments that don't
govern.
Continuing to show that it learns more
ol what is going on in U.A.P. circles
than the U.A.P. itself, Messrs. Stevens,
Snow and Walder perhaps excepted, Syd-
ney’s “Labor Daily” reports that the acti-
vities of the Government Tourist Bureau
have been the subject of a Public Service
Board inquiry. The G.T.B. is the joint
which is losing a steady £15,000 a year,
and whose Kosciusko Hotel in seven
years gobbled up £ll,BOO of tax-money,
exclusive of depreciation and interest
charges.
Sydney’s Water Board, which had
£11,450,000 of its debt taken over by
the Government (i.e., the taxpayers) and
is getting another £15,000,000 of loans to
play with, has distinguished itself by cut-
ting off the water supplied to scores of
houses in Willoughby, Sydney, for non-
payment of rates (highest amount owing,
£3 10s.). It meant depriving the house-
holders of sewerage as well, and this
when diphtheria is about. The board
whines that it has been overlooked in the
issue of Coronation medals. Has Sydney
no leather medals?
Every time he is asked to reduce
postal charges, McLachlan, the P.M.G.,
promises to “refer the matter to the
Cabinet,” but darkly adds that reduction
would mean increased taxation. He said
this in Adelaide the other day ; and, only
reporters being present, nobody retorted
that anything in excess of penny postage,
such as Maoriland has, is taxation.
McLachlan, the P.M.G., trying to
defend the indefensible:
In America, the postage rate of 3 cents
was reduced to 2 cents, but it has had to
be increased again.
But that was because the depression had
been far worse in the U.S.A., and the
unemployed far greater in proportion to
population, and the national Govern-
ment’s efforts to relieve distress far cost-
lier per head, than in Australia. In any
case, the postage rate was the American
equivalent of three-halfpence, was low-
ered to a penny, and has gone up to
three-halfpence again. With profuse sur-
pluses at Canberra and no unemployed
expenditure, the Australian rate that was
three-halfpence has gone up to tuppence,
and the tuppence will stay if McLachlan
has his way.
“Democratic” Spain has had another
change of Government. There are, of
course, Communists in the new show ;
but “S. M. Herald” points out that
“Socialists are still the predominating
element” .and protests that “the title
of ‘Reds’ bestowed upon the loyal-
ists by the propagandists of Franco
hardly represents the facts.” Still it is
near enough to the facts to cause the
reader to marvel at the “Herald’s” hys-
terical denunciations of the Labor party
led by the mild Curtin which has flatly
repudiated Communism. Granny is Tory
at home and, where “the mutual enemy,
Fascism,” is concerned, radical abroad
Melbourne "Argus” has come out with
a series of articles on Communist propa-
ganda in Australia, and with the usual
demand that Government—at that very
moment feebly abandoning its proceed-
ings against the Communist party and
the Friends of the Soviet—should rise
up and do something. Part of the Com-
munists’ effort is to arouse sympathy for
Communist agents and groups in foreign
countries and excite hatred against anti-
Communist Governments. The effect of
these strivings has been feeble compared
with the effect of what the “Argus” and
its pals have been publishing in their
Spanish war “news.”
Victoria got along with eight Cabinet
Ministers till the Dunstans arrived ; now
it has nine, and is threatened with ten.
Melbourne “Age,” always ready to
oblige the party which has no Melbourne
representatives nor any use for Mel-
bourne men when exercising patronage,
has discovered a pressing need for “an
able, energetic, full-time Minister of
Transport.”
Discovery of pressing needs for more
State Ministers and mandarins is apt
to be contagious, and there may be-
fore long be six full-time Ministers of
Transport, all alleged to be “able and
energetic,” if the taxpayers don’t look
out. Their pressing needs in the matter
would be best served by transfer of
transport to the Commonwealth, in
which case there would be only one Min-
ister, with decentralised control, and no
blasted interference at borders.
Tn one of those free-for-all debates
which in some quarters are held to
brighten the proceedings of industrial
courts. Judge Beeby said something.
In Russia, the net result of equal pay
for men and women is that, between them,
a man and a woman can earn enough for
ordinary family needs. The woman has
to work so that she may have enough to
live on.
This recalls a reference to the U.S.S.R.'s
“great task of economic reconstruction”
in one of the newspaper articles Mr.
Beeby wrote on his return from Europe
last year. The “great task of economic
reconstruction” has now been going on
for at least 18 years, yet Ivan has to
send the missus out to work “so that she
may have enough to live on”!
Since polling night in Gwydir there has
been a deep-brown silence on the subject
of the £2,000,000 “project” Stevens-
Bruxner devised for Gwydir and neigh-
boring electorates. S.-B. was very specific
about it: “930 holdings from near Nar-
rabri westerly” were to be “provided
with water” for a beginning. Surely the
fact that Narrabri voted 1836 to 1249
against the S.-B. men has not arrested the
“project.”
When “orderly marketing” was de-
feated at the referendum, the voting in
Gwydir was 16,442 for and 29,236
against. Attorney-General Menzies as-
sured everybody that the almighty bump
had “no political significance”; but at the
by-election Gwydir rejected his crowd
by 25,551 to 22,286. Friends of Minister
Thorby, who represents Calare, are dis-
mally recalling that Calare’s vote on the
marketing referendum was 17,016 for
and 28,239 against. Possibly another of
Bob’s assurances would dispel their fears.
From Arthur Griffith:
At the 1934 Federal election the Sydney
“Herald” made it a Lang v. Lyons fight, and
it: worked. In the Gwydir campaign the
“Herald” tried the same dope, giving all the
limelight to Lang’s utterances. Lang and his
mob now claim the support of the principal
U.A.P. journal for their contention that “Lang
won the Gwydir.” As a matter of cold fact,
what won the by-election was Curtin’s definite
statement that Scully was pledged to vote as
the Federal Caucus shall decide, and that the
State executive has no control over the votes
of Federal members.


THE FINISHED PRODUCT.
“There is always a subject in which a boy will do really well. It is the duty of his teacher to find that subject.” —Melbourne headmaster.


QuhCioiewiah y*if4
LARGE,
SMALL
AND
HORSESHOE
We use over a quarter million
buns and rolls each year.
You like yours buttered? Well,
everyone has different ideas I don't
care for butter on mine I can recom*
mend the Victoria Palace, though, to those
who like excellent cuisine and accommoda-
tion Australia's largest, most modern hotel
There were a quarter million satisfied quests
last year
I 2
| 201-229 UT. COLLINS STREET. MELBOURNE C 1 (Next Town Hall)
VICTORIA PALACE
MADE BY
MARTIN, SONS & CO., LTD.,
HUDDERSFIELD, ENGLAND,
THE FOUNDERS OF THE WORSTED INDUSTRY.
17
THE IDEAL OF ALL WELL-DRESSED MEN.
POSITIVELY
THE LARGEST RANGE OF EXCLUSIVE DESIGNS
EVER PRESENTED FOR MEN’S
SUITINGS
The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Capital Authorised .. ..£1,250,000
Capital Issued .. .. 1,250,000
Capital Paid Up £1,250,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 1,000,000
(Used partly in business and partly
in Government and approved
Securities.)
Reserve Liability of Shareholders ..£1,250,000
Also 106 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.3.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad
collected and proceeds remitted. All usual
banking business transacted.
PERSONAL ITEMS
The world’s richest man passes:
John D. Rockefeller had been so long out
of business that the modern age was apt to
regard him as a kindly old philanthropist whose
main occupation was dotting the world with
expensive institutes for the benefit of humanity.
Before his retirement from active work in
1895 he was probably the earth’s best-hated
man, with a reputation for complete ruthless-
ness in a deal. From the moment he became
a broker's clerk in 1855 he showed himself a
born moneymaker. At 18 he and a partner put
a few thousand dollars into backing Samuel
Andrews, inventor of a cruderoil refining pro-
cess. Out of this transaction was born Standard
Oil, which destroyed or absorbed almost
all its competitors in U.S.A. Rockefeller got
the blame for the bludgeoning, and the cam-
paign against him in the pulpit and press was
intensified when in 1882 he trustified his com-
panies, and, in defiance of all legal attempts to
control him, made himself one of the world’s
richest men. In later years his four charitable
trusts have rebuilt historic U.S.A. cities and
presented hospitals and medical and educational
facilities to cities and towns all over the world.
Sydney University benefited a few years ago
when it built a Rockefeller medical research
building with its present from the old man.
His total gifts have been put at over
£200,000,000. Two later generations carry on
J.D.’s enterprises. He had two ambitions —one
to become the world’s richest man, the other
to live to 100. He failed in the second by two
years and 46 days.
Skipper of the brand-new K.P.M.
motor-ship Maetsuycker, J. J. Kooper car-
ries the liag of the Dutch mercantile
KOOPER, of the K.P.M.
marine into new waters —the South
Pacific service, which includes calls at
Rabaul, Vila, Noumea, Maoriland, Syd-
ney, Port Moresby and then back to the
Dutch East Indies, the round trip to
take two months. A long time on board
ship, perhaps, but passengers aren’t likely
to grow tired of the vessel or its skipper.
Commander Kooper is in his early for-
ties, has been at sea since his teens, and
was formerly of the Van Rees, which is
the other vessel in the new service. He
first saw Sydney in 1914.
Capable and kindly John Mackenzie
Lees has written the last entry in his
ledger. A native of Guernsey, though
of Scottish descent, he came to Aus-
tralia as a youngster in search of health,
and found so much of it that he lived to
75. Getting a job in the old Bank of
North Queensland. Mackenzie Lees was
its g.m. before he was 40, and when it
amalgamated with the Royal in 1917 he
remained as g.m. till the Bank of Queens-
land. Limited, as it was called, was
merged in the National. Over 60 then,
he elected to retire. Bruce put him on
the first Commonwealth Bank Board,
and the board found him eminently use
ful when the depression came. Macken-
zie Lees often came into the old Bulletin
office for a chat with S. H. Prior. They
were firm friends and had a mutual
admiration.
Thomas Wilson Vincent, one of the
best-known pastoralists in N.S.W., died
last week in Sydney at 73. Vincent went
on the Darling—the first station on
which machine shearing was used
—in the early ’eighties and be-
came manager; Mat Robinson was
managing Toorale, where Henry Lawson
was a rouseabout in. 1892. Robinson and
Vincent joined forces in 1912, and bought
from McCaughey the three stations
Dunlop, Toorale and Nocoleche, com-
prising 24 million acres and carrying
300,000 sheep, and held them for 12
years, when they were sold to an English
company. Vincent afterwards bought
Pembroke, Cassilis, but his chief interest
in recent years was the trusteeship of
Sam McCaughey’s vast estate, which he
held with Roy McCaughey and James
Ashton.
No man did more in his time for gar-
dening and the cultivation of trees than
J. G. Lockley (“Redgum”), who went out
suddenly at Sydney on May 18. For
years he ran the “Amateur Gardener”
and a regular column in Sydney evening
papers until he joined the “Herald” eight
years ago. Lockley was born at Water-
loo (N.S.W.) in 1865, and in his boy-
hood roamed the foreshores of Pyrmont
in the days of the sailing-ships and de-
veloped a love for the old windjammers
which lasted to the end. He started
work in Maddock’s bookshop and then
went over to Angus and Robertson,
where he was the first librarian of the
Sydney Book Club ; from that he started
the Lockley library on his own. In
1910 he was responsible for the publi-
cations of a book of Lawson’s less im-
portant verses, The Skyline Riders; he
was a friend and benefactor to the poet.
He look a hand in local government as
Kuring-gai shire councillor mainly to
prevent other aldermen cutting down the
trees in Sydney’s northern suburbs, and
Davidson Park, on Middle Harbor, is a
result of his advocacy.
Prof. J. B. Cleland, who leads an
anthropological expedition to the Flinders
Ranges, Centralia, for Adelaide’s Uni-
versity and Museum, spent six years in
Sydney as principal microbiologist to
the Department of Health before he re-
turned to his native State (S.A.) to be-
come Professor of Pathology. He was
born in Adelaide, and his father was one-
time Colonial Surgeon there. Second-in-
charge is Prof. T. Harvey Johnston, a
Sydney native, who, while in charge of
Queensland Uni.’s department of biology
spent most of his time investigating the
problem of getting rid of the prickly-
pear, practically solved by the introduc-
tion of the Cactoblastis. He is Prof, in
Zoology at Adelaide. Five other scientists
with the expedition will take measure-
ments and face-casts of the disappearing
abos. and study their food supplies and
rock paintings before it is too late.
Some June birthdays:
W. B. Propsting (Speck's Leg. Council Pres.),
76, medico-knight David Hardie (Brisbane),
81, on 4th; Mrs. Aineas Gunn (We of the
Never Never), on sth; ex-Defence Minister
T. W. Glasgow, K.C.8., 61, Justice lnglis
Clark (Speck), 55, Justice Boyce (N.S.W.
Supreme Court), 65, and film censor O’Reilly,
60, on 6th; Prof. G. V. Portus (Adel.), 54, on
7th; Dr. C. J. Prescott (Sydney), 80, S. L.
Gardner, M.H.R. (Robertson), 53, on 9th;
art critic William Moore (Syd.), 69, and G. R.
Steer (gen. man. Brisbane Tramways), 64, on
11th; John Lane Mullins (N.S.W.), 80, Kent
Hughes, M.L.A. (Vic.), 42, and Canon Ham-
mond (Syd.), 67, on 12th; Rowland James,
M. (Hunter), 52, on 14th; Tas. Railway
Commissioner F. P. St. Hill, 63, on 15th;
J. H. Prowse, M.H.R. (Forrest), 66, and Bishop
Halse (Riverina), 56, on 16th; Justice Cantor
(N.S.W. Industrial Commission), 50, on 17th •
P. A. M. Mcßride, M.H.R. (Grey, S.A.), 45.
R.C. Bishop Barry (Goulburn), 62, Frank Tate
(Vic.’s former Director of Education), 74, on
18th; Dr. J. H. Cumpston (Director-Gen. of
Quarantine), 57, R. A. Crouch (former M.H.R.
for Corangamite), 69, and J. W. Kitto (Aus.
Broadcasting Commission), 66, on 19th; J. M.
Fowler (former M.H.R. for Perth), 72, on 20th;
N. Gov. Printer Alfred Kent, 65, on 21st;
Prof. J. B. Cleland (Adel.), 59, on 22nd;
knight Gilbert Dyett (pres. R.5.5.1.L.), 46, on
23rd; R. O. Blackwood (Vic.), 76, on 24th;
T. J. Roseby (long of Syd. Water Board), 71,
knight Harold Luxton (former Lord Mayor
of Melb.), 49, and Errol G. Knox (Syd.), 48,
on 25th; author C. L. Barrett (Melb.), 58, and
Melb.-bom Prof. W. K. Hancock (Birming-
ham Uni.), 39, on 26th; Dr. Frank Stilwell
(Vic.), 49, Dr. Fred Watson (editor of His-
torical Records), 59, and Speaker George
Pollock, M.L.A. (Q.), 47, on 27th; ex-Speck
Senator J. H. Keating, 65, on 28th; Tas.
Solicitor-Gen. Griffiths, 56, knight Victor Wil-
son (ex-Commerce Minister), 60, and painter
Norman Carter, 62, on 30th.
The Speaker leaves the chair:
Nature was kind to Danny Levy at the
finish. He attended a concert on the evening
of June 19, looked well and said he felt well;
the following morning he died as he was rising
in his bed. For years he had been a martyr
to ill-health; he could read the most illegible
prescription at sight and knew the contents of
every patent medicine on the market. lie
journeyed to London last year for medical
advice, without benefit. Levy was the father
of the N.S.W. Parliament, though only 63 at
the end. First elected at 27, he had a 36 years’
unbroken membership for an East Sydney con-
stituency which was variously named Sydney-
Fitzroy, Darlinghurst, Sydney, Paddington and
Woollahra. He was Chairman of Committees
for two years and Speaker, with three short
breaks (Hickey, Dooley, Burke), from 1919
until his death, holding that office for nearly
15 years, a record for N.S.W. In 1932 he was
Attorney-General for a month after the dis-
missal of Lang until Stevens had won the con-
sequent election, after which he went back into
"ORDER, ORDER!”
the chair. He was knighted in 1929. Levy
was a son of poor parents who came from
London to Sydney when he was six. In his
youth he was the most brilliant student of his
day, winning school prizes and university
degrees with honors, but he made little use of
his scholarship, the mundane business of poli-
tics absorbing his energies. He cut no figure
at the Bar. He was the oldest trustee of the
Public Library with 30 years’ membership, and
president for 10, and had a Government seat
on the University senate. As Speaker he was
sound in his rulings and scrupulously impar-
tial. Unmarried, he made his home with two
devoted sisters.
The lanky mountain-ash from Monaro,
William Hedges, is Chairman of Com-
mittees and thus Deputy Speaker in the
N.S.W. Parliament, and would automati-
cally succeed Levy but for a pact between
the U.A.P. and U.C.P. which gives the
U.A.P.- the right to nominate. There
are plenty of U.A.P. aspirants. The
House elects, and no appointment can be
made until it meets. Meanwhile Hedges
will carry on.
J. W. Russell French ends an innings
of 37 years with the Bank of N.S.W. to
take over as N.S.W. manager of the
Trustees, Executors and Agency Co. He
RUSSELL FRENCH 11.
is a Maorilander who landed in Sydney
50 years ago and went to school at
Sydney Grammar, afterwards joining the
“ ’Wales” under his father, John French.
J.W. played cricket for his school and
with the crack I. Zingari team for many
years; nowadays he keeps fit with a
round of golf.
A Coronation diarist saw “Lionel
Logue, the W.A. doctor who is the King's
voice specialist, pass in his car to the
Abbey to occupy a seat in the royal box. ’
Logue is not a doctor, nor is he a West-
ralian, although he taught elocution in
Perth for a number of years: S.A. can
claim him as a son. But in Perth and
Adelaide alike he was regarded as a
clever and very likeable fellow, and none
of his acquaintances in either city be-
grudges him the substantial success that
has come to him because of the King’s
patronage or the decoration he has got.
In Adelaide Logue married a niece of
the late Paris Nesbitt. The Nesbitt family
is noted for good looks, and Mrs. L. had
a full issue.
Dick (R. E.) Oaten, who died last
week, was one of the founders of the
Clerks’ Union and an officer (several
times president) for many of its fighting
years. He founded the Australian Ath-
letic League in Adelaide to control pro-
fessional peds, and, moving to Sydney,
was the sec. and handicapper of the Ath-
letic League’s N.S.W. branch for 35
years. Several attempts to enter politics
failed ; but Oaten, an accountant, really
did his best work in teaching the N.S.W.
unions to keep proper books. Before
Oaten started as trade-union auditor the
unions’ idea on the subject, in many in-
stances, was expressed by the fact that
the honorarium to the “honorary audi-
tors” was a fee sometimes as low as ss.
and seldom more than a guinea. The
old-time union official was amazingly
honest, otherwise wonderful juggles
might have taken place with the finances.


#//#
hevrolet
■m
mi
mm.
m
I
-r—4C
....
: . ■
S:
HIM &
When you’re buying a truck—get down to essentials
Lower running costs alone won’t help you to bigger
profits unless the truck you buy can assure you of utter
dependability, of year round service with a positive
minimum of overhaul and repair costs. That’s just
why the New 1937 Chevrolet completely fulfills all
your demands, because it not only gives you more
power at lower fuel and oil consumption costs, but it
brings you proved dependability —the quality of staying
on the job.
The reason’s simple. From bumper bar to tail-light
Chevrolet is truck-built to do a truck job. Engine
chassis, body and cab are designed to work harder and
last longer—The new engine is more forward mounted to
give better load distribution and lengthened chassis life.
These factors help you to cut down repair and overhaul
costs and to minimise time lost in the repair shop.
Pay a visit to your local Chevrolet dealer. Arrange
with him for a road trial with the model your work
requires. Get him to explain Chevrolet’s big, long
life features which pave the way to bigger earnings.
Ask him about the lore-cost and availability
of Chevrolet replacement parts. But if you want
the proof of Chevrolet’s dependability, ask the men
who drive them. Then you’ll realise why more than
2 million owners, throughout the world, stick to
Chevrolet for Dependable Service.
CHASSIS PRICES :
Commercial Truck from £230
30 cwt. Truck from - - £277
(131 in. w.b.)
2 ton Truck from - - - £297
(157 in. w.b.)
All Prices Plus Sales Tax.
CHEVROLET
Ml I
Your Money Goes Farther in a General Motors’ Product.
CONSULT YOUR LOCAL AUTHORISED
CHEVROLET DEALER.
CSOI-44
Sold and Serviced by Chevrolet Dealers throughout Australia.
CHECK OVER THIS LIST OF NEW
CHEVROLET LONG-LIFE FEATURES
( They’re things you must have in
a Truck).
New Higher-powered Chevrolet Six-
cylinder Long-life Engine ; New
Stronger Frame; New Full-floating
Back Axle; New ALL Steel Safety
Cab; New Springs and Spring Hang-
ers; New Four-bearing Crank and
Camshafts; New Cushion-mounted
Engine Supports; New Steering with
Increased Ratio ; New U-Type
and Box Girder Cross Members ;
New Dome-headed, Slipper-
skirted, Grey Iron Pistons ; New
Down-draught Carburettion ; Oil
Bath Air Cleaner ; New Steel-
stream Styling ; New More Positive
Hand-brakes.
GENERAL MOTORS HOLDEN’S LTD.
BUY UNDER CONFIDENTIAL G.M.A.C. PLAN OP, DEFERRED PAYMENTS
John N. Whittet, of the N.S.W. Agri-
culture Department, known by repute in
Australia and abroad for his work as
agrostologist, has gone to England with
the department’s blessing to study de-
velopments in grass technique at British
agrostology stations and probably in Ger-
many and France. Keen on his work, he
intends to pay particular attention to new
ideas in grass drying and the growing of
fodder in trays, about which there has
been a good deal of publicity.
For the first time in its history the
Bank of New Zealand has acquired an
official head that is neither grey nor
bald. Arthur Telford Donnelly, new
chairman of directors, is 47, but might
pass for 10 years younger. His practi-
cal acquaintance with banking com-
menced two years ago, when he was
appointed to the board as one of the
Government representatives. He’s a
lawyer, and put in his first five years at
the Bar in partnership with his father,
Michael Donnelly. Then came three
years of service in the Great War. He
was Crown Solicitor for Canterbury, has
been chairman of the M.L. Cricket
Council, and is a member of the Board
of Governors of Canterbury College.
First claim to any vacancy In the
N.S.W. Ministry is held by George
Gollan, Government Whip, who is now
serving an apprenticeship as assistant
Assistant Minister GOLLAN (N.S.W.).
Minister (without portfolio) to Premier
Stevens. He sits for Parramatta, one of
the key seats, the door of which opens
both ways, but Gollan’s chance of hold-
ing it may.be improved by the redistribu-
tion that must come before next year’s
election.
The A.B.C. has chosen B. H. Moles-
worth, director of Workers’ Tutorial
Classes and lecturer in economic history
at Queensland University, as Federal
Talks Controller. Molesworth, the son
of an Anglican clergyman, matriculated
from Brisbane Grammar School to
Queensland University, where he was one
of the first history honor men. He went
to Oxford during the war —on a travelling
scholarship.
Editor-in-chief of the Arthur Heigh-
way group of Maoriland papers, S. V.
McEwan, of Wellington, grew serious
after years of concentrated study of the
breeding side of the racing game, but his
nature was mellowed by nearly a couple
of decades of able Rugby Union foot-
ball criticism. Bom in the country—at
one time he held a corner in Masterton
sports secretaryships—he knows and
loves animals and athletics. He. got into
journalism by accident, but says he would
like to get out by design.
W. J. Jungwirth, who escorted Vic-
toria’s Premier Dunstan on his Corona-
tion trip, joined the Vic. civil service as a
junior clerk in 1915, and eventually
became secretary to the State Premier.
When the Premier’s Department was
created (every Premier simply must
have a department) he was appointed its
permanent head and, not yet 40, is now
Vic.’s youngest departmental chief. He
has been to London before, accompany-
ing Hogan, but a change of Government
brought him home earlier than had been
planned.
“Blackbutt”: They grow up tough in
Tasmania’s Legislative Council. J. W.
Cheek, re-elected M.L.C. for Westmor-
land, at 81, answering criticism that it
may be necessary to name an age at
which members must retire in favor ot
younger men, quoted W. E. Gladstone, at
86, introducing a Home, Rule Bill for Ire-
land and speaking on it for five hours ;
Baden-Powell, 80 last January, actively
engaged in Scout work; Masaryk re-
maining President of Czechoslovakia
until he was over 85. Cheek was first
elected for Westmorland in 1907 and was
Hon. Min. in Earle’s Cabinet in 1909.


ABORIGNALITIES
BUCK & WHITE WHISKY "PLURRY GOOD!"
•‘Dominic”: Half buried in the sand-
dunes north from Mandurah (W.A.) lies
the ruined home of Thomas Peel. A
nephew of Sir Robert, originator of the
modern police force, Peel floated the
West Australian Plantations, a colonis-
ing scheme which was to reproduce all
the profitable features of Virginia. Land-
ing in Cockburn Sound in 1829 with a
shipload of indentured laborers and com-
plete equipment, he found himself left
with his cargo on the beach, most of his
laborers, hired at English rates, being
seduced away by the better wages offered
by other colonists. A faithful half-dozen
remained, to become the forefathers of
the present fishing village of Mandurah.
Owner of 800,000 acres, Peel lived under
a thatched roof, and meagre meals of
kangaroo and potatoes, with occasional
pork, were served on silver plate. Un-
able to endure the life, his wife, an
Ayrton, returned with the two children
to England ; her mother, however, stood
by the fallen fortunes of her son-in-law.
Years later a daughter, attained to her
majority, returned and kept home for
the now weary old man, who died in the
’sixties. Nothing in Australia for authors
to write about, eh?
* * * *
“Kooragai”: Has any of the Council
sampled the mulga melon which grows
sparingly in the dry north-west of N.S.W.
and the lower Bulloo country? The fruit
grows underground on the end of a shoot
that goes -straight down from the vine.
The melon is white inside and out, resem-
bling externally in color and shape the
“Wang”: “Hungry” Murphy'met the
swaggie just as the latter was opening the
road gate to go up to the house. “Hook
it!” cried Murphy ; “there ain’t anything
here fer th’ likes of you. Clear out
before I put th’ dogs on t’ yer.” The
traveller glared hard at Murphy for a few
seconds, then he dumped his swag on the
ground and, rooting in a pocket, pulled
out a piece of dirty writing paper. “Look
at that!” he said, holding it in front of
Murphy. Murphy gazed at it puzzled.
“Well, what about it?” he said. “There
ain’t nothin’ on it, it’s blank.” “Course
it’s blank,” replied the other; “I keep it
ter show cows like you that there ain’t
no words in th’ English langwidge to
describe yer!”
* * j|; $
“Golden West”: Long-distance fights!
Coaching in W.A. from Menzies to
Leonora in the Cobb and Co. days we
had as fellow-passenger one Ryan, who
was not long in discovering another
Ryan, a cousin, on board. Some quarrel
dealing with a sheilah back in Noo South
Wales developed, and at the first stop,
after a quick one at the pub, a fight
began. A few hits. Then the coachie’s
“All aboard! Come on, you s; you
can settle it next stop.” Next stop, an-
other quick one, then a ding-dong go
for a few minutes. Then all aboard
again; the coach couldn’t wait. Next
stop, process repeated. And so on for
nearly 70 miles, a long day’s ride, with
plenty of relays of horses. Arrived at
Leonora well after dark we expected a
resumption of hostilities, with finality.
But the coach was met by a young
woman with a baby and a toddler.
“Hullo, Mag!” cried the first Ryan in
surprise. But the girl was busy kissing
the rather bruised dial of the second R.
“What, he married you ?” gasped the first
R. “Sent for her as soon as I heard
about it,” explained the second R. with
dignity. “Then why the hell didn’t you
say so?” the first demanded. “What!”
retorted the second. “Think I’d crawfish.
I never was afraid of you. Anyway, it
kept things lively, didn’t it?”
* * * *
“Nor’-west”: There certainly are some
queer places around this continent. Mak-
ing for the head of the Exmouth Gulf—
itself terra incognita even on the map
to 99 p.c. of Australians —we were in-
formed of a short cut overland from
Maud Landing. Following an unbroken
coral reef for about 20 miles the skipper
of our 60-ton schooner found a passage
less than 200 yards wide which enabled
him to sail in and tie up to a jetty. This
jetty, together with a wool store capable
of holding 1000 bales, cost the W.A. Gov-
ernment some £30,000 a couple of
decades ago. In the big shed was a
general store, the proprietor of which
hadn’t seen a customer for a fortnight,
“though they buy well when they come.”
At one time the place sported a pub,
since vanished. But fish! Anywhere
along that quarter-mile jetty one could
see the finny folk fairly jostling to get
a lick at the bait. Off the deep-end
skipjack was favorite, with 101 b. snapper
a good second.
* * * *
“W.P.T.”: The most careless nest-
builder in the Australian bush is easily
the mopoke. I’ve seen dozens of their
nests, and not one has been deep enough
to hold the eggs safely. In the strong
wind these are easily blown out. Even
young birds are blown out in a strong
wind.
Californian cream rock-melon. It is not
a sweet fruit, but produces a quart of
cool juice that is very acceptable to a
thirsty traveller. Its whereabouts are
shown by cracks in the surface soil, which
open as the melon grows to maturity, and
it is easily dug out with a pointed stick.
At one time it was plentiful, and relished
by the blacks in dry times, but sheep have
fed it down till it has become scarce.
* * * *
“Walkabout”: No doubt about
Binghi’s deep-sleeping powers (B.
28/4/’37). Coming in with a mob of
cattle it was customary to light fires
around the camp at night, not for those
on watch to warm themselves by but to
detect beasts poking out on dark nights.
Jumbo, the abo. horsetailer, was overdue
in coming in to rouse the second watch,
and, guessing he had gone to sleep near
one of the fires, the boss rode out. And
just in time. Jumbo’s clothes were well
alight and he had suffered body burns
serious enough to justify his being taken
to hospital for repairs. Yet he had to
be wakened.
“Nor’-west”: Binghi’s heavy somno-
lence of recent mention is simply consis-
tent with the abo. character. In tribal
warfare he never crept treacherously on
a sleeping camp. A good sport, he sum-
moned the enemy of the moment to the
jousting lists, and in broad daylight had
it out. It was this fatal chivalry that
made him such easy prey to police and
punitive parties that gathered laurels by
surprise attacks at dawn. Even Binghi’s
half-tamed dingoes lacked the faculty to
bark, and there was never thought of set-
ting a lookout. Confident that no one
would try to put the dirty on him by a
night attack, he slumbered peacefully on,
the faculty becoming hereditary. Fear
of night attack, of fire, of robbery pro-
duced the white man’s unease of slumber.
* * *
“F.Y.7”: “Sand Patch” (B. 12/5/’37)
refers to abos. whistling airs from Masses
picked up at a mission station. With a
lifelong experience of abos. —tame, half-
tame and otherwise—l can’t recall ever
having heard one whistle. In his native
state Binghi has no idea of whistling, in
spite of his addiction to dogs, and even
the civilised abo. does not seem to have
paraded the accomplishment if he ever
acquired it.
V 'l' '!*■
“Laetitia”: The ghostly luminosity
manifested by many marine creatures is
largely a device of Nature to make, the
female of the species attract the male.
At times northern waters are so thick
with these creatures that a bottle of sea-
water will glow with a milky light in a
dark room. An ebbing tide will some-
times deposit a waving line of similar
light. A rarer form is that created by a
species of fish in Torres Strait water.
This fish has two glands, one on each
side, each secreting a separate gas,
luiferin and luciferas. Each of these
gases is non-luminous in itself, but the
combining of them, which takes place in
the water in the wake of the fish, gives
the luminous effect.
"Didn't y ’ see me put out me and?”
“Avee”: The native cherry would cer-
tainly be an adornment to our parks and
gardens (B. 5/5/’37), and it could be
grown. It begins life as a root parasite,
but soon reaches a stage at which it can
fend for itself. The tree generally has a
number of smaller trees attached to its
own roots, and if the large tree is cut
down the small ones spring up in hun-
dreds. A bush botanist friend has an
Exocarpus in his garden. Three years
ago he transplanted it together with the
tea-tree root it was growing on. The
root has since died, but the cherry
flourishes.
* * * *
“Frank Motocar”: Not generally known
that the bower-bird’s art of mimicry is
imparted to the youngsters of the flock
in an educational academy run by the
parent birds. Lessons are for about three
hours daily during the noonday heat;
the academy, a shady tree. It is comi-
cal to listen to the first efforts and to
watch the. pupils’ reactions. Any mis-
take is promptly pulled up and the whole
rigmarole starts all over again.
•H *1 : *•*
“James W.”: Those bamboo-moulded
sinkers (B. 5/5/’37) wouldn’t be of much
use in a really fast tide-rip; the current
would roll them along. Spherical sinkers
are equally useless for the same reason.
Nature provides the perfect moulds antfi
casings for sinkers —outsize mussel or
ugaree shells. These are the acme of
perfection in streamlining against cur-
rents ; no current it is safe to anchor in
can shift them once they strike bottom.
A five-ounce “sinker” of this variety will
hold a line where a half-pound of lead
in a different shape would not even
steady it. Bore three or four small holes
in the shell, place it on sand and pour
in the molten lead. When it cools, burr
over the blobs of lead that have oozed
through the holes, thread the line through
the tip of the arrangement and you have
it. This sinker, with its shell overcoat,
could never scare any fish, and is becom-
ing increasingly popular where we have
real tide-rips—out in the channels of the
Barrier Reef.
* * * *
“Paiwa”: The story about the lady
who was her own watercart lid (B.
12/5/’37) reminds me of my first visit to
the western end of the Gulf of Papua.
There most of the canoes that came out
to greet the Merrie England had one end
open to the water. This wasi either
stopped up by a big lump of clay or by
a woman squatting in the open space. As
elderly women in that part of the world
are skinny to a degree, young and plump
damsels were selected for the job, with
excellent results.
* * * *
“Tid’apa”: Wish my friend Snowy, of
Gannawarra (Vic.) could meet “Verri’s”
country lass (B. 28/4/’37) who is so
adept at dragging snakes from holes
when only a foot or so of Joe is protrud-
ing. Snowy is the undisputed champion
snake-killer of the district, his best record
being 88 wrigglers in one day on Gun-
bower Island, and all suffered death in-
stantly when Snowy grabbed them by the
nether parts and swung them aloft. But
Snow won’t grab a snake that is half-
way down a hole. Firstly, the head and
little beady eyes are watching from just
inside the hole; secondly, Joe puts up a
good fight to stay where he is. Provided
he fits snugly into the cavity, by erecting
his scales he can make it a pretty difficult
job to pull him out. Also, he is likely !o
let go suddenly and come out in one
piece, his enemy being totally unprepared
for the sortie and Joe therefore given a
great opportunity to get in some steady
fang work. Yes, I am sure Snowy would
like to learn a little of Jane’s technique.
* * * *
“Flight”: Of all pests the easiest with
which to deal is the eaglehawk. His nest
is a landmark which can be seen for
miles —he nearly always builds in open
country. Unlike the dingo and other
predatories, he doesn’t kill for sport;
also, unlike many others, he keeps return-
ing to his kill until it is fit fodder only
for foraging ants. Since he is stupid, it is
easy to poison the bait without the bird
detecting it. Being a gorger, he gives
himself a full load of the poison. Unlike
the crow, he rarely, if ever, vomits the
bait. The fact of other dead birds,
even those of his own kind, lying near a
bait doesn’t scare him a bit.
MORNING ROAD.
The road to Burragoona in the morning
Goes winding through the gum-trees stark
and tall,
Beneath the dewy boughs whose red adorning
Is silvered as the shaken dewdrops fall.
A thousand voices wake in secret places
To raise a melody that’s sweet and strong;
The long green aisles and all the woodland
spaces
Are limned in brightness and bewitched with
song.
The little town lies huddled in the hollow,
A pallid blur beneath the guardian hills,
White as the rolling walls of mist that follow
In silver ramparts where the river wills.
“Wake up! Wake up!” The magpies’ lilting
chatter
Calls through the stillness to a laggard sun;
The hills are tipped with gold, the frail mists
scatter
In the long sunshafts of the day begun.
N.S.W.
TROY.


“Hanko”: Young Jim begged hard for
one of the newly-arrived foxy pups.
“Righto,” I told him ; “I’ll bring you
one later on. Blank-street, isn’t it? What
number?” “Tut-tut-two —here, I’ll write
it down for you.” Jim was evidently
taking no risk with my memory. 1
slowed the scrap of paper in a pocket.
In due course 1 set out with the whim-
pering pup for 2222 Blank-street. The
houses petered out at 406, so 1 worked
back to 222. No good. 1 plodded to
22. Oh, yes, they live at number 2.
Young Jim was indignant. “Strike a
light,” he protested, ”1 writ 2 down
enough, too.” He did, too.
* * * *
“Jerker”: Late outback identity
Billy-the-boy Bartlett had reason to
thank an unknown wanderer who had
planted melon seeds on a sandy patch.
The Boy was all in, at the last stages of
a perish, when he was found by some
musterers. The nearest water being 20
miles away, the musterers brought some
pie-melons from a patch they had noticed
a few miles back. While one of the
rescuers went to the station for a con-
veyance the other cut the melon in slices
and gave strips to the old chap to chew,
"No, Sergeant, I didn't make the arrest, but I can describe the fugitive's
disguise."
which he did to such order that by the
time the wagonette arrived he was able
to tell people how it happened. About
him were the rinds and chewed pulp in
heaps, and the drink of water he then
took had no ill-effects. But from that
day to the time, he died old Bill could
never look a melon in the face again
without a feeling of sickness.
“Booraby”: The frequent hauls of
illicit skins and the risks taken to obtain
and dispose of them make me wonder
why possum farms are not numerous in
the timbered country. No animal is less
trouble to keep, and, living mostly in
the trees, its numbers make no difference
to the grazing of horses and cattie.
Neither is there an-
other animal with
such an extensive
range of diet, which
makes it easy to
herd the silver-greys
in enclosures. It en-
joys lucerne, wheat,
maize, damper,
sugar, cooked corned
meat and bread
crusts; and it's a
whale on peanuts.
In its native habitat
it adds many wild
roots and herbs to
its staple diet of
gum-leaves. It is also
the easiest of native
animals to suit with
sleeping quarters.
Lacking a hollow in
a tree, it will coil up
in the corner of a
shed but appre-
dates above everything a box nailed to
a post or a tree. Another thing in favor
of farming it is that it is quickly tamed
in the open.
* * * *
“Kuranda”: The pride of the Gillies
Highway, which connects Cairns and the
Atherton tableland, used to be a freak
tree which exactly reproduced the out-
line of the once-famous Felix the Cat
who has given way to Mickey Mouse.
Tourists rejoiced in it, and it was the
thing to tie a ribbon round its “neck.”
Recently someone levanted with the
whole thing, nothing being left but a
hole in the ground where the curiosity
grew. Of considerable bulk, it would be
impossible for the most confirmed
souveniring tourists to get away with it
undiscovered, and it is supposed that it
has been destroyed by vandals of the
same yahoo complex as those who felled
the thousands-of-years-old macrozamia
at Tambourine, near Brisbane.
* * * *
“Tockilly”: Ever noticed these peculi-
arities about hoop and bunya pines,
common in Queensland scrubs? Hoop
derives its name from the fact that its
bark, instead of growing with the grain,
grows round the tree, not spirally, but
like a wrap-on skirt (to use the wife’s
description). The hoop pine is the only
known tree with this bark formation,
The bunya, apart from its fame as a
nut-food for Binghi, probably has the
thickest bark of any tree. I have seen
this cork-like bark almost a foot through
at the butt of an old tree. A cobber of
mine—no mug cutter, either—spent a
day and a half barking a bunya log con-
taining only 2500 super, feet,
* * * *
“Horsetailer”; Recently a prime steer
escaped while en route to the Footscray
abattoirs (Vic.), swam down the Mari-
byrnong and Yarra rivers into Hobson’s
“Has the second dinner-bell gone yet, Dig.?"
Bay and kept swimming around there for
36 hours before coming ashore on the
beach by Princes Pier, Port Melbourne.
It was apparently none the worse for its
long immersion. The feat bears out,
what bushmen often dispute, that cattle
are topnotch swimmers. At Hummock
Island, Bass Strait, we were, swimming
bullocks from the shore out to the side
of a ketch when one beast slipped his
loading sling and put to sea. By the
time we were able to set off rowing a
heavy ship’s boat in pursuit the beast
had a good lead, and because it was
blowing hard we gave up the chase.
Days later, we recognised the bullock
feeding with new mates at Emita,
Flinders Island, where we learnt it had
put ashore the day following its escape,
alter tacking about all night in an eight-
mile stretch of ocean.
* * * *
“Hanko”: Other than maintaining an
overplus of formic acid, I don’t think
fneat-ants bother with a poison antidote
(B. 12/5/’37); anyhow, they seem to
relish a bout with dangerous or stupefying
substances. I’ve observed the red pests
browsing avidly on the ground-creeping,
ferny-leaved laudanum weed, a plant
deadly to sheep. Gorged on the stuff, the
ants tumbled helplessly about, and, while
the jag lasted, lost all their aggressiveness.
Which makes me wonder how they’d
react to a jolt of Fitzroy cocktail.
* * * *
“Hanko”: No doubt those hikers who
rove in chattering groups get some, leg-
action and fresh air out of it, but it
appears to me that they miss every worth-
while thing on their strictly-scheduled
forays over the countryside. A group I
recently encountered were all cluttered
around one member, and their shrieks
of merriment silenced the carolling of
a magpie perched near by, and put to
panicky flight a flame-breasted robin
which was all set to pilot them along the
road. As I passed I found that their
interest was centred in a comic strip!
M: * * *
“Salmar” : Victorians are objecting to
a proposal to introduce the Quinnat
salmon from Tasmania to some of the
Victorian landlocked lakes. This salmon,
like all its kind, must leave fresh water
for the sea at intervals. The. Quinnat,
however, will live for several years in
landlocked water, though it will not
breed there. It is a fine sporting fish and
delicious eating. Opposition is based on
the grounds that the salmon would e.at
trout and trout food and in any case
would quickly die. The answer is that in
M.L. and the U.S.A., where the Quinnat
lives side by side with trout, no diminu-
tion of the latter has been noticed. As for
dying in due course the rainbow trout in
enclosed water has the same tendency. If
the objectors would pay half as much
attention to extirpating those curses of
Australian edible fish the worthless carp
and perch they would be doing the State
some real service.
*.* * *
Koolpinyah : While shooting buf-
faloes on the edge of the Adelaide River
plains (N.T.) I came across a giant plain
goanna, a full six-footer. If he had seen
me he would have scurried through the
dead pandanus-leaves and stampeded any
buffaloes that might be handy, so 1 waited
until he should depart. A tiger-snake
appeared, and each saw his hereditary
enemy simultaneously. The go. stood
as high as he could on his stumpy legs,
his head held low down, his tongue
flickering out at lightning speed, his tail
moving like flashes of lightning, while he
hissed with menacing hatred. Meantime
the “tiger” had raised his head above
the ground about 18 inches; that dan-
gerous mouth was open and the tongue
shot out rapidly ; the lower part of the
body was settled on the ground in coils ;
the evil eyes flashed balefully. Sud-
denly the goanna launched his attack
with great speed, but he did not catch
his foe unawares, for the snake met him
in mid-air and held on to his left eye
for two or three seconds before dropping
off. Instantly both disappeared, and 1.
waited to see if more would happen.
In less than two minutes the go. was
back, searching in vain for the snake.
If one theory I have often heard is cor-
rect, the go. had gone to take a herb
that rendered the bile of the “tiger”
harmless. Any of the Council know it?
*. * * *
“Wanderer”: A family I met in the
Cape. York Peninsula used the most
novel “mosquito nets” I’ve so far come
across —they slept with piles of dried
grass pulled loosely over them. The
grass kept the insects away without
stifling the sleepers.
* * *
“Cudgerie”: Tell “Laetitia” (B.
5/5/’37) that there is no such breed of
timber as “ringed gidya.” It is just ordi-
nary gidya the grain of which, by some
freakishness of nature, happens to have
“ringed.” It is rare. I have seen whole
scrubs chipped with an axe to find a tree
that has ringed. Out of about 500 posts
cut for fencing I got one ringed piece
of timber among them, and my new-
chum mate burnt this in the campfire
overnight.
* * *
“Jindivick”: After a bad morning
kick-off in which everything went wrong,
the boys at last got the chaffcutter going.
The knives clattered and the feeder
stuffed in a sheaf, which went in a little
way, stopped, went a little further and
came back a bit. There was a lot of
noise and some dust; no chaff. Then
something that may have once been chaff
came out in a sort of string. Everything
it touched it stuck to. There was only
one thing for it, so we took the chaff-
cutter to pieces. Knives, feedbox, jaws,
rollers, bearings were all gummed up
and in a fine mess. Reason? After use
our boys ran a sheaf partly through the
cutter and left it to protect the knives
against rust. A hen had found the sheal
and shown her appreciation by laying
therein a dozen eggs, and, of course, the
googs had been scrambled with the chaff.
THE TESTER’S GAME OF CRIB.
Most nights I read the paper beside the kitchen
fire *
I like to’skim the cables through, and follow up
the markets, too,
Each night ere I retire. . . „ .
The wife, these nights, is busy, and chattering
But once a month the tester calls, and then
the daily paper palls; . „
A strained and earnest silence falls as we sit
down to crib.
He moves about from farm to farm; you'll
meet him on the road,
His buggy loaded up with gear, with boxes
there and buckets here;
Each night a new abode.
His job, of course, is testing cows, but when
he comes to me
Our talk is usually more of fifteen-two and
fifteen-four,
As hand by hand we take our score, than
what the tests will be.
He tests the cows with patient care, with acid
and pipette,
With tabled sheet and whirling flask he sets
the herd a monthly task
Of milking better yet.
But when he’s got the testing done I always
look to see
What’s entered on the score-cards, for some
day, I’m very nearly sure,
He’ll credit Plum with fifteen-four instead of
four-point-three.
vie.
A.G. BURNET.


■SST
A private executor
is presumed to
know the lAW
The full responsibility for an estate during its
administration falls on the trustee’s shoulders.
He is presumed to know the law in all its
intricacies, and is held responsible for any
mistake.
Many trustees, realising the burdens placed
upon them, prefer to transfer their responsi-
bilities to The Trustees Executors and Agency
Company Limited, which devotes its whole
time to the duties of Executor and Trustee.
Private trustees desirous of relinquishing
their duties are invited to make an appoint-
ment to discuss how this may be conveniently
arranged.
THE TRUSTEES EXECUTORS
COMPACT LTD.
(Incorporated in Victoria in ISIS.)
THE OLDEST TRUSTEE COMPANY IN AUSTRALIA
412 Collins Street, Melbourne ... 1-5 Bligh Street, Sydney
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves and Undivided Profits, £951,874.
Trust Assets under Administration, £28,800,000. £20,000 has been lodged
with the Colonial Treasurer of New South Wales and £lO,OOO with the
treasurer of Victoria as guarantees for the proper Administration of Estates.
BOARD OR DIRECTORS:
„ Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman),
Maj.-Gen. Sir Brudenell White, K.C.8.. K.C.M.G., K.C.V O. D S O •
c; l V'i C \i ßl f l , ck 'j ood ’ .P- Stuart Murray, John Fordyce, ' ”
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G.; Sir Lennon Raws, C.B.E.
General Manager: W. Sydney Jones; Manager: K. M. Hughes.
N.S.W. DIRECTORS:
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G. (Chairman),
m c S,ewart ’ R - T. Hilder.
N.S.W. Manager: I W. Russell French.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Colonial Sugar Refining Co.
Replacement
Year and De-
Ended mediation
March, Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
121 p.c.
£ * £ £
1927 .. 832,797 609,375 1,780,475 1,494,052
Reserves capitalised, £975,000.. 805,475
1928 .. 966,628 731,250 1,040,853 1,723,421
1929 .. 976,306 731,250 1,285,909 1,958,609
1930 . . 910,829 731,250 1,465,488 2,189,884
1931 . . 734,823 731,250 1,469,061 2,395,141
1932 . . 744,322 731,250 1,482,133 2,678,937
1933 . . 792,414 731,250 1,543,297 2,896,624
1934 . . 963,501 731,250 1,775,548 2,995,421
Reserves disclosed, £883,000.. 2,658,548
Assets written up, £3,957,564.. 6,616,112
Reserves capitalised, £5,850,000 766,112
Reserves disappear, £57,564.. 708,548
6} p.c.
1935 .. 931,949 731,250 909,247 3,088,939
1936 . . 937,980 877,500* 969,727 3,311,260
6.9 p.c.
1937 . . 1,036,336 804,375 1,201,688 3,509,057
* Includes special bonus of ss. per share to cover
taxation on last bonus issue.
Roughly half the. co.’s profits are derived
from the sugar industry in Australia ; the
other half comes- mostly from growing
and milling in Fiji, refining in Maori-
land and from a fine wad of investments
outside the business. The co. also mills
on its own account in Australia, but the
bulk of its profits here arise out of com-
missions under contract with the Govern-
ment for refining, selling and financing
all but a fraction (refined by the Milla-
quin Co.) of the entire Australian crop.
For the 12 months covered by the latest
accounts, the Australian and Fiji crops
turned out even better than anticipated,
and the co. notched fresh records in all
sections of its activities. The quantity
of raws (of 94 net titre) bought by the
Australian Sugar Board for the 1936
season was 782,000 tons, or 135,000 tons
more than for the previous season ; the
larger production was due to an increase
in the area cut and a better yield per
acre, both of cane and of raw sugar. The
increase in purchases for local consump-
tion (359,000 tons) was 22,000 tons, and
an extra 113,000 tons, making 423,000
tons (54 p.c.), was exported. Figures
for Fiji are not yet available.
After reducing the book value of re-
fineries, mills, etc., by £355,634 net, add-
ing £197,797 to the replacement and
depreciation reserves, and making what-
ever other provisions were considered
necessary, the board for the first time
figured the year’s net earnings beyond the
million-pound mark. The £1,036,336 of
profit claimed (up £98,356) was 8.8 p.c.
on the £11,700,000 of share capital, and
the div. was lifted from p.c. to 6.87
p.c., the final being at the rate of 1\ p.c.
p.a. With capital as it is, a p.c. div.
will call for £877,500 annually, and only
for the three worst years of the depres-
sion was less profit than that declared
during the last decade. Also, it is plain
from the co.’s history that the board has
not been in the habit of placing every
penny on the table. Altogether, share-
holders put up £2,425,000 of cash-paid
capital, £13,175,000 of bonus scrip has
been issued, and £3,900,000 returned,
leaving paid capital at its present figure.
The last gift (£5,850,000 —one for one)
was in November, 1934.
The lift in the div. surprised the mar-
ket, which, mindful of the fact that old
shareholders are in clover, and of the
co. s exceptionally strong position, finan-
cially and otherwise, has lengthened its bid
for the fully-paid £2O shares from £43 ss.
to £46 over the last couple of months. At
£46 the return is 3.2 p.c. on a 1\ p.c. div.
basis ; the investor who looks for a shade
under 4 p.c. on his money counts on a
9 p.c. distribution, which would call for
£1,053,000, or £16,664 more profit than
was claimed last year.
Here is a bird’s-eye view of the finan-
cial structure as the published accounts
show it:
r, . , ... „ 1925. 1936. 1937.
Paid capital .. £4,78.3,000 £11,700,000 £11,700,000
Sundry creditors 1,607,274 1,438,595 2 546 473
Suspense ’
accounts .. 1,856,909 2,368,392 2,394 618
Employees’ ’
funds .. 39,545 45,796 63,160
Refineries, mills,
e tc 5,670,772 10,312,700 9,957,066
Steamers, etc. 100.000 142,118 142 ns
Distillery . . 86,292 177,616 188’346
Premises .. 52,850 56,962 18o’ll3
Stocks.. .. 3,225,413 2,896,308 4,120,810
fnvttmS GtC : } 1,890,484 2,692,067
Cash and ’ ’
deposits .. 1,211,103 3,921,624 3,716,662
To carry an extra £1,224,002 of stocks,
add £857,061 to book debts and invest-
ments, £123,151 to premises (on account
of the co.’s new headquarters) and
£10,730 to distilleries, the amount com-
ing to sundry creditors was increased by
£1,107,877, and cash was drawn upon for
£204,962. After deducting an unspecified
provision for fluctuation, investments out-
side the business are shown separately
for the first time at £3,089,373 ; shares in
subsidiaries appear at cost, £12,200.
Allowing for the final div. (£438,750),
and including suspense accounts, up
£26,226 —they are largely provision for
contingencies in excess of current re-
quirements—and employees’ funds (up
£17,364) with liabilities, the more or less
liquid surplus (£5,943,101) was £651,510
stronger than it was 12 months earlier.
Under the new International Sugar
Agreement, which aims at regulating sup-
plies coming into the world’s markets,
and so preventing excess production from
weighing down world prices, Australia
has secured a minimum quota of 400,000
long tons per annum for the next five
years. Although this is 23,000 tons less
than the quantity purchased for.export
last season, the restriction is not likely to
have much, if any, effect upon C.S.R.’s
Australian earnings; much will de-
pend upon seasonal conditions, upon
whether the world price of sugar con-
tinues to rise and the extent to which
local consumption continues to increase.
The world price of raws in London aver-
aged below £5 sterling for the years
1934-36, and is now a shade over £6.
Further, the British Government, whose
duties on Empire-grown sugar are £3 12s.
a ton less than on the foreign-grown
article, is recommending to Parliament
that the Empire preference be kept at its
present level for the next five years.
National Bank of Australasia
Dividends. Writ- To
Mar., Profit. 10 p.c. ten Off. Reserves. Reserves.
£££ ' £ £
1927.. 581,645 400,000 70,000 111,645 2.644,603
Premiums on new shares, £411,577.. 3,056,180
1928.. 640,401 498,086 50,000 92,315 3,148,495
1929.. 659,278 600,000 50,000 109,278 3,257,773
1930.. 655,134 500,000 50,000 105,134 3,362,907
8 h p.c.
1931.. 561,206 425,000 50,000 86,206 3,449,113
6 p.c.
1932.. 276,838 300,000 3,425,951
5 p.c.
1933.. 291,944 250,000 20,000 21,944 3,447,895
1934.. 274,024 250,000 20,000 4,024 3,451.919
1935.. 275,591 250,000 20,000 5,591 3,457,510
5 } p.c.
1936.. 294,403 262,500 30,000 1,903 3,459,413
. 5 j p.c.
1937.. 32.5,627 287,500 40,000 3,457,540
Judged by the size of its advances and
deposits, the National, which for over 60
years was little known outside its home
State (Vic.), now occupies third place
among the 10 big associated trading
banks in Australia. For the nine
years to the close of accounts in 1930, it
paid a steady 10 p.c. div. ; slump and
its concomitants brought the rate down
to 5 p.c. for the three years to the end
of March, 1935 ; then p.c. was paid
for the next term, followed by 5| p.c.
for the 12 months covered by the latest
accounts, the final being at the rate of
6 p.c. p.a. This fitted in pretty well
with market anticipations, the price of
the fully-paid £lO shares having ad-
vanced from £l5 10s. to £l5 12s. and of
the £8 shares paid to £5 from £7 Bs. to
£7 13s. 6d. over the last 12 months. At
the higher prices the return is 3.8 p.c.
in each case on a 6 p.c. div. basis, with
prospects. Visibly the net tangible cover
is 335. lOd. per pound of paid capital.
During the last term the economic
barometer continued to rise. A bigger
turnover in the exchange market was
accompanied by brisker trade locally and
a hardening of interest rates ; also, the
pressure of fixed deposits eased, owing
partly to old high-rate contracts having
run out, while the call to provide for
contingencies became less pressing,
thanks to the rise in the price of wool
and wheat, especially the latter. After
setting aside whatever was considered
necessary for contingencies the board
figured gross earnings £76,263 better
than the previous year’s at £1,239,300.
Including the tax bill (£89,812, up
£2066), exes. (£913,673) took £45,039 of
the increase, leaving the declared net re-
sult £31,224 better at 6.5 p.c. on capital,
compared with 5.8, 5.5, 5.4, 5.8, 5.5,
11.2 and 13.1 p.c. back to 1930. On
capital and reserves combined the net
result was only 3.8 p.c.
Now consider these figures:
1935. 1936. 1937.
Paid capital . . £5,000,000 £5,000,000 £5,000,000
Notes .. .. 47,590 47,579 47,564
Bills, etc. .. 623,948 623,564 623,881
Free deposits. , 12,448,036 18,795,628
Fixed deposits 24,601,379 23,973,992 J
Liquid assets.. 14,549,672 13,743,244 17,122,285
Advances . . 31,182,973 32,446,662 33,060,786
Premises, etc... 1,292,644 1,306,771 1,316,183
The outstanding feature last year was
the marked expansion of £4,450,649 in
deposits, accompanied by a growth of
£3,379,041 in liquids and of £614,124 in
advances. The movements were due
primarily to the lift in export income,
and therefore seasonal. As the money for
wool, wheat and other produce was re-
ceived it was used to pay oft or reduce
overdrafts and/or swell deposits and cash
resources, thus strengthening the bank-
ing position just at a time when such a
state of affairs is most to be desired. The
demand upon the banks is usually great-
est in the second quarter of the year ;
also the increased supply of funds has
checked, for a while, at any rate, the
hardening of interest rates, and facili-
tated the financing of further expansion
of the secondary and distributive indus-
tries.
In the co.’s last sheet fixed and cur-
rent accounts are lumped in one entry.
According to sworn quarterly averages,
about 63 p.c. of the deposits is inter-
est-bearing as against 63.4 p.c. at the
previous balance. Liquids amounted to
39.8 p.c. of liabilities to the public, com-
pared with 35.7 p.c. in ’36 and 36.5 p.c.
in ’29. Advances were 78.3 p.c. of total
deposits as against 85.9 p.c. in ’36 and
86 p.c. in ’29. The bank, which was
holding £5 Is. sd. of the public’s money
for every pound of its own, is thus well
equipped to further extend its lending
connections and increase its earnings.
Anthony Hordern and Sons (Sydney)
< Dividends
Not Pref. To lto-
Feb., Profit.* 7J p.c. Ord. serves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £ £
1927. .150,320 39,221 8 p.c. = 69,589 41,510 20,283
Nominal
Reserves.
1928. .196,947 56,250 8 „ ~100,000 40,697 20,414
1929. .200,404 56,250 8 „ ~100,000 44,154 64,568
1930. .187,049 56,250 7 „ „ 87,500 43,299107,867
1931.. 55,280 56,250 2 ~ ~ 25,000 81,897
Doss.
1932.. 16,907 Nil Nil 64,990
Pi ofit.
1933.. 16,817 Nil Nil 16,817 81,807
1934.. 51,864 51,139 Nil 725 82,532
1935.. 84,387 87,188 f Nil 79,731
1936.. 97,941 87,188 f 2 p.c. = 25,000 65,484
1937. .109,416 43,593 44 „ „ 56,250 9,573 75,057
* After deducting debenture interest. t Two years.
Considering the universal nature of the
business and the wide area it covers--
country trade accounts for a large slice
of the turnover —A.H. and Sons have put
up a heartening performance. Readjust-
ment of the big organisation to the altered
trading conditions that slump and its
concomitants brought about involved a
larger crop of problems than most other
retailers have had to wrestle with. Still,
the management has dealt successfully
with its difficulties, as the steady im-
provement in the figures in the table
over the last five years shows; at the
same time, it has kept in step with
modern developments in the art of dis-
tribution, to give shopkeeping its more
resounding title. Service, now developed
to a point that would have seemed
suicidal to the storekeeper of a genera-
tion ago, is one of the co.’s outstanding
features, and new show windows, better
display and lift facilities and reorganised
departments have further added to cus-
tomers’ comfort and the attractiveness
of the store.
During the 12 months covered by the
latest accounts trading conditions con-
tinued to improve, and so did the co.’s
turnover, thanks largely to further growth
of emplo3 ? ment and better prices for pri-
mary products. Still, keen competition
pared a little more off profit margins,
and, after allowing £54,920 for depre-
ciation (amount not stated for the pre-
vious term) and providing for taxation,
etc., trading profit was £1260 short of
the previous year’s at £137,612:
Debenture Available for
Feb., Profit. Interest, etc. Shareholders.
1927.. £262,922 £112,602 £150,320
1928-. . 207,714 70,767 196,947
1929.. 270,404 70,000 200,404
1930.. 257,049 70,000 187,049
1931.. 125,280 70,000 55,280
1932.. 46,530 63,437 16,907*
1933.. 66,727 49,910 16,817
1934.. 100,689 48,825 51,864
1985 . 128,242 43,855 84,387
1936.. 138,872 40.931 97,941
1937.. 137,612 28,196 109,416
*Loss.'
The saving of £12,725 (over 1 p.c. on ord.
capital) in debenture, interest was due
to redemption of the old 7 p.c. deben-
tures (the rate had been reduced to
£5 Bs. 6d. p.c. under the N. S. Wales
Interest Reduction Act) and issue of a
new lot, taken by the M.L.C., at 4| p.c.
The amount available for shareholders
was thus £11,475 better at £109,416, or
enough to pay the pref. div. and show
5.2 p.c. on ord. capital. The div. was
lifted from 2 p.c. to 4| p.c., the final
being at the rate of 5 p.c. p.a. The
£9573 that remained lifted the visible
lay-by to £75,057, subject to £273,153 of
goodwill, etc.
The already comfortable financial
position was further strengthened:
19?7. 1936. 1937
Ord. capital ..£1,246,250 £1,250,000 £1,250,000
Pref. capital . . 75(1,000 750,000 700,0t.a
Debentures . . 1,000,000 401,000 600,000
Overdraft . . 250,000
Sundry creditors,
etc 249,210 139,963 84,633
Freeholds a n d
leaseholds .. 1 J 1,281,230
Plant, etc. .. ) I>7j 1 > 7j0 > 237 1,842,32 b 256 , 9 . 51
Stocks . . . . 1,130,878 715,026 757,221
Book debts .. 1 sq „ ( 224,409
Cash, etc. .. J 441 ’ 777 345,893 j 63)2 59
* Includes goodwill.
The £199,000 of new debenture money :
together with a net reduction of £58,135


\ e»9 c
tct
a»«»
©cV-
K* 1
8
to*
an' 1
net
n»9
i % \
nee
tin®
i? »
©r<°
V*>
P
SUPER
Plus
UPE
Plus
ETHYL
ETHYL
m
V
' Gel Inal
Empire Spirit
CB5/12/SP
MJK I Pins
SOLD AT THE
BENZOL (tinted Blue) IS
STANDARD GRADE PRICE
w
inohouse
c Of THE
m
m
vflU
■m
*&■:
■■
i S'?:
II
m
:; m
*MM
i 5:
?
Let us demonstrate in your home how London, Berlin and Pat is
can be heard as clearly as local stations. There is a wide range of
Westinghouse Broadcast and Dual Wave Receivers, Battery
and Electrically operated from which to select, each available
on easy terms.
Ring M 6507 for representative to call and value your present
radio as part deposit on a new Westinghouse.
EF. WILKS
&Co.
LT2
124 CASTLEREAGH ST.,SYDNEY.
gh
’Phone:
M 6507. Branches at NEWCASTLE, PARRAMATTA & CHATSWOOD
Sub-Distributors:
Asbestos House,
A. R. TURNER & CO.,
65 York Street, Sydney.
B 5400-
PHONE
M 6507
for FREE
Demonstration
IN
YOUR HOME
ON the air, day and night, artists,
lecturers music from all corners
of the world, can be brought into
your home, with all the true beauty of
the original Studio broadcast, with a
Westinghouse Third Dimension Radio.
MAIL THIS COUPON FOR FULL PARTICULARS
Please send me particulars of the WESTINGHOUSE THIRD
DIMENSION RADIOS.
NAME
ADDRESS :.
in book debts, cash, etc., the
co. to wipe out the overdraft (£250,0uu
at the previous balance, raised in c ® n ‘
nection with the redemption °f °"L de 7.
bentures) and carry an extra £42,195 of
stocks. The contraction of £55,330 m
the amount coming to sundry creditors,
etc., was due mostly to disclosure of pro-
vision for taxation (now £43,582). Assum-
ing that goodwill, etc., remained un-
changed, the net reduction in the book
value of fixed assets was £30,986. When
the books closed, more or less liquids
exceeded outside liabilities by £360,346,
an improvement of £90,390 over the
twelvemonth.
As for the current term, the immediate
outlook favors further improvement in
earnings, which should also receive a
little help from the. purchase of the stock
of Craig, Williamson Pty. (Melbourne),
which has gone into voluntary liquida-
tion.
The fully-paid pound ords. at 20s. 3d.
return 4.4 p.c. on a 4\ p.c. div. basis,
or 4.9 p.c. on a 5 p.c. distribution. At
235. 3d. the prefs. return 5 p.c., after
allowing for the statutory cut. The net
tangible cover is 48s. prefs. and 16s. lOd.
ords.
Electricity Meter and Allied Industries,
Ltd.
This holding co., whose scrip was re-
cently listed on the Stock Exchange, was
formed in Sydney in 1934 to amalgamate
the interests of Electricity Meter Manu-
facturing Co. and New Systems Tele-
phone Pty. The meter co., whose foun-
dations were laid in 1912, has a paid
capital of £294,344, and is associated
with Parkinson and Cowan, Ltd., and
Measurement, Ltd., both of London. Its
factory at Camperdown, near Sydney,
turns out electricity meters, visible petrol
pumps, Philco radio equipment and frac-
tional-horsepower electric motors for
use in connection with refrigerators. The
telephone co., incorporated in 1920, has
a paid capital of £100,500 in 35,000 8 p.c.
cum. prefs. and 65,500 ords., and is asso-
ciated with Telephone. Rentals, Ltd., and
Telephone Manufacturing Co., Ltd., also
both of London. It sells or hires on long-
term contracts the inter-communicating
telephones made by its principals, and, as
distributing agent, handles many of the
meter co.’s products, as well as those of
Siemens and Halske, London.
In September last the holding co. issued
100,000 6 p.c. cum. prefs. and 75,344
ords., of which 75,000 were allotted to
“a large and influential British manufac-
turer.” That raised paid capital to
£570,288 in 100,000 prefs. and 470,288
ords. At the end of December last the
lot, together with £2699 coming to sundry
creditors and a p. and 1. balance of
£26,633, was represented by shares in sub-
sidiaries, £394,936 (cost); advances to
the pups, £200,494 (it includes £28,482
coming in divs.); debtors and cash, £290 ;
cost of share issue, £3899 (£5849 less
£1950 written off).
The new capital was used mostly to
reduce the outside debt, down £143,238
and thus lighten the interest bill. Here
are balance-sheet figures of the holding
and two operating cos. combined, after
eliminating inter-company accounts:
1935. 1930.
Paid capital (a) .. .. £394,944 £570,288
Paid capital etc. (?<) • ■ 5,144 7,004
S'undry creditors .. • • 143,220 81,062
Loans, etc. ( c ) . . • • 83,000
Freehold, plant, etc. .. 154,000 152,875
Stocks 200,527 184,187
Debtors’ balances, etc. .. 195,009 237,884
Cash and deposits . . .. 29,343
(a) Owned by holding co. (5) Not, owned by holding
co. or its subsidiaries. (a) From overseas share-
holders.
To make the position of shareholders in
the holding co. clearer, capital owned by
the holding co. (up £175,344) and capi-
tal and undivided profit belonging to
outsiders (up £1921) are shown sepa-
rately. Loans and debentures from over-
seas interests (£83,000 at the previous bal-
ance) were repaid, and £62,158 was
clipped off the amount coming to sundry
creditors, etc. —the etcetera is an unspeci-
fied allowance for taxation. Stocks were
reduced by £16,340, while £42,375 was
added to debtors’ balances and £29,343
to cash and deposits. The fresh capital
is further reflected in an improvement
of £198,625 in the more or less liquid
surplus (£362,788).
Last year trade in the co.’s various
lines held well, thanks to the improve-
ment in conditions generally, the tariff,
new building activity in the capital cities
and competition in the flat business.
After striking off £17,361 for deprecia-
tion, and allowing for the holding co.'s
exes., net earnings of the organisation
were £31,625, or £773 less than the pre-
vious year’s and £392 more than the
average, for the five years to the end of
1935. Allowing for a full year’s pref.
div. (£6000), enough remained to show
5.4 p.c. on the £470,288 of ord. capital.
Actually a quarter’s pref. div. was paid,
and the ords. were handed 5 p.c.
(£23,514). Of the £6611 that remained,
£2717 was struck off preliminary exes.,
reducing them to £3899. Goodwill
figures at £1'64,387, making total intan-
gibies £168,286. Free reserves aggregate
(Continued on next page.)


If you have ores for sale write:—
NORMAN HILL & CO., LTD.,
Cathcart House, Sydney.
Buyers: Gold ores and concentrates, Silver Lead
ores, Molybdenite, Scheelite, Wolfram, Tin ores,
etc., etc.
Public Notice.
O ORESTRY BONDS. —Best prices for N.Z.
1 Perpetual Bonds obtainable from R. F.
Cormack, 440 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
NOBEL-GLASGOW
EXPLOSIVES
|NOBEC
GELIGNITE, DYNAMITE,
BLASTING GELATINE, GELATINE DYNAMITE
A 2 MONOBEL, STONOBEL AND SAMSONITE
(Permitted Explosives for Coal-mining)
NOBE L ’S THISTLE BRAND SAFETY FUSE AND DETONATORS,
CABLES AND ELECTRIC DETONATOR FUSES, BATTERIES, ETC.
ELECTRIC SHOT-FIRING A SPECIALITY.
AUSTRALASIAN AGENTS;
lEHTTT, W.A.: Elder, Smith & Company, Limited.
Elder, Smith & Company, Limited.
Dalsrety & Company, Limited.
: R. N. Kirk & Company.
S & Company, Limited.
Elder > Smith & Company, Limited.
Federal Government Administrator.
TAS.: W. & G. Genders Pty.. Limited.
ZEEHAN, TAS.: J. S. Munro & Company.
TAS,: Chas. Davis, Limited.
AUCKLAND, N.Z.: Campbell Bros.
« rnJArvr-ivr T NZ,: Dalgety & Company, Limited.
®? lgety & Company, Limited.
Da, ffety & Company, Limited.
Vi KC a**s* *TTm’r. 2 : tP® 1 * e * y & Company, Limited.
ant * i'AUXOKAj FIJI: Morris, Hedstrom, Limited.
ADAMS’ (TATTERSALL’S) HOTEL,
259 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 484 GEORGE STREET.
Rooms, 6/- and 8/- per day; Breakfast, Table d’Hote or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE PUBLIC DINING ROOMS.
Lunch from 12 noon (Sunday, 12.45 p.m.), Din. ner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday, 5.45 p.m.),
Tables or Seats may be reserved by ’Phone, M 4601.
THE EVERLASTING VALVE.
m
This valve is made in the flanged
and screwed type, with iron
body and gunmetal fittings; also
made of gunmetal throughout.
The ideal valve for Boiler Blow-
off, as it is leakproof, simple,
easily operated, quick acting, straight blow through and no Stuffing
Box. Made in all sizes from one inch. No attention required after
being installed, as it is self-grinding in action. All valves tested to
6001 b. hydraulic pressure. Send for our Bulletin and let us
quote you.
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LIMITED
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown, N.S.W.
£90,238, leaving £78,048 of the capital
unrepresented by tangibles in the books.
The immediate outlook for the cur-
rent term is bright enough, and the
market, which expects the co. to do
better, prices the fully-paid pound ords.
at 225. 6d. as against 19s. 6d. three
months ago. The return at 225. 6d.
is 4.4 p.c. on a 5 p.c. div. basis, or 5.3 p.c.
on a 6 p.c. distribution. An all-round
6 p.c. would call for £2592 more profit
than was claimed last year. The prefs.
at 225. return 5.4 p.c., and their annual
requirements were over five times
covered by last year’s net earnings. The
net tangible backing is £4 18s. sd. prefs.
and 16s. Bd. ords.
Caledonian Collieries (N.S.W.)
Approximately 239,600 tons of coal
(2,662,300 altogether, including bunker
coal) left Newcastle for inter-State and
overseas delivery during 1936, but prices
remained round their lowest level since
1929. After providing £29,323 for de-
preciation (disclosed for the first time),
Caledonian Collieries wrote net profit
£9713 lower at £702 for the 12 months
to Dec. 31 last. Industrial trouble
threw one of the co.’s mines idle for five
months. t
It is now nine years since either prefs.
or ords. have had any return on their
capital. Though prices are now slightly
higher than the average for 1933-36, so
are costs. With it's Howard-Smith con-
nections the co. is certainly favored with
regard to markets, while four of its seven
pits are on the Greta seam, which, be-
sides being among the least expensive to
work, produces some of the best gas-
coal in the State. Yet it' is difficult to
see much brightness in the outlook for
those in the still-overcrowded coal
trade. With industry turning to cheaper
methods of power, chiefly oil and elec-
tricity, most of the export trade gone,
despite the benefits conferred by ex-
change, and the inter-State shipping cos.
(heavy investors in the coal industry)
turning to oilburners, hopes of increased
earnings depend partly on the various
producers standing closer together.
At balance date the £1,487,894 of
share capital (£464,295 pref., £1,023,599
ord.), together with £159,460 (down
£17,607) coming to outsiders, was in-
vested £1,599,188 in collieries, etc.,
£64,482 in stores and coal stocks, £47,550
in debtors and cash, and £57,631 in
shares in other cos. On paper all the
share capital and £121,497 besides is in-
tact, but until the assets can turn in
satisfactory profits that doesn’t mean
much. On the market the £1 prefs. fetch
around 12s. and the fully-paid ords.
3s. 9d.
Tantalite
The tantalite deposits near Darwin
(N.T.) are attracting attention again.
About 6001 b. of ore was produced last
year and sold to the U.S.A., and
approximately the same quantity is said
to have been shipped to the same desti-
nation since the beginning of this year.
Now a representative of a German firm
(Chemical Industries of Hamburg) is in
Darwin, and prepared to buy all tanta-
lite offered. The ore is the chief source
of the metal tantalum, which is being
used in increasing quantities in the
manufacture of radio tubes and as an
alloy. It is extremely resistant to corro-
sion. It occurs in granite, pegmatite
and gneissen dykes, and is usually asso-
ciated with tin and wolfram and distri-
buted irregularly. Last month the metal
fetched over £lB per pound in London.
Tantalite is claimed to have been first
discovered in the Territory in the Finnis
River district by Charles Clark in 1885.
The ground here was worked by an Eng-
lish co., and later by Chinese for tin. In
1905 three European prospectors got a
few tons of mixed products, tin and tan-
talite, and then gave up; the deposit
remained idle until about eight years
ago, when it was again worked for tan-
talite. In the West Arm district tanta-
lite ore was first observed by F. A.
Biesser (a member of the local postal
staff) about 28 years ago. At the end of
1928, Litchfield and Lugg located and
opened up a deposit there which has
been worked ever since.' The ore is
high grade, assaying from 73 p.c. to 79
p.c. tantalum.
Tongkah Compound, No. 2, operat-
ing at Seremban (F.M.S.), which has been
off the dividend list since 1927, will pay
Is. a share (5000) on June 25. With tin
fetching £230 a ton in London, chair-
man Meagher figures that the co. will net
around £50,000 annually in Australian
currency. The intention is to distribute
profits as they are earned. Paid capital
is £81,250 in 100,000 £1 shares, of which
25,000 are fully paid and the balance
paid to 15s. each. There is nearly two
years’ life ahead of the smaller dredge
on the Ampangan property. After that
it will probably set in on the tailings left
by the old dredge. On the Rahang area
the second dredge, which recently began
digging at the rate of about 120,000 c.y.
per month, has approximately 10 years’
work ahead.
* * * *
Tin production is increasing on the
Kangaroo Hills field (N.Q.). The most
promising shows are White Hope, Eye
Witness, Surprise, Boomerang and Florist,
all of which are on pay-ore. The Shrimp
and Sardine are still treating low-grade
stuff. To date Sardine has yielded about
1500 tons of black tin, valued at over
£lBO,OOO, from 11,000 tons of ore. At
Garrawalt Creek more than a dozen
alluvial-tin claims have been pegged
lately, including 200 acres taken by Adel-
aide (S.A.) Tin Exploration Syndicate,
which has commenced testing the area.
* * * *
Several small shows are being profit-
ably developed in the Soldier’s Cap and
Gilded Rose areas, Cloncurry district
(N.Q.). The Falcon, Soldier’s Cap, got
14240 z. gold from the last 75 tons. A
five-head battery has been erected at
Mount Freda, where there is enough ore
in sight to keep the plant, treating 50
tons a week, busy for the next 12
months. In the Gilded Rose area 370
tons were crushed last year for 400 oz. of
gold. The Victory Consolidated pro-
duced 1420 z. from 54 tons, obtained from
workings down to 50ft. This show is
considered worthy of more intensive
development.
* * * *
Successfully used for some time on the
sapphire fields of Central Queensland, a
new type of rotary washing plant,
evolved by F. Webb, a local gem-miner,
has attracted attention in Brazil (S.
America). A small model of the plant
has been shipped to Rio de Janeiro, and
from it a full-sized machine is to be con-
structed for use on the Brazil gem-fields,
where chiefly diamonds and topazes are
won. Queensland’s gem-miners have
had no startling results of late; total
production last year amounted to only
£2030, and since the beginning of this
year sales have not come to much.
* * * *
The Mary River, which runs through
the once-famous Gympie goldfield (Q.),
is receiving the attention of Gympie
Gold Dredging No. 1. On behalf of the
co., Stanley Hunter is checkboring the
bed of the river to ascertain whether
dredging for gold will be worth while.
* * * *
Floated largely on overseas money in
March, 1934, Bendigo Mines, Ltd., has
decided to reconstruct, having exhausted
its funds and calling power ; paid capital
is £229,466 in 10s. shares. A new co.,
Bendigo Mines, N.L. (nominal capital
£637,500 in shares of 15s. each), is to
take over the assets and liabilities of the
old co. as from March 31 last on a share-
for-share basis. Since April, 1936, the
old co. has been working mostly on an
advance of £98,000 from London-con-
trolled Gold Exploration and Finance Of
Australia, which put up a large slice of
the original share-money. Through sub-
sidiary cos., attention has been paid to
three adjoining lines of reef —Carshalton,
Napoleon and Nell Gwynne—in the
centre of the Bendigo field (Vic.), where
little development had been done pre-
viously. So far nothing startling has
been encountered. At the Carshalton two
ore-shoots on Nos. 3 and 4 levels have
been prepared for stoping, but between
No. 5 level (where exploration is pro-
ceeding near areas profitable at shal-
lower depth) and No. 10 level nothing
worth while has been met with. A
diamond-drilling programme has been
initiated to prospect the ground where
east-dipping faults met in the shaft about
No. 8 level. In the Nell Gwynne main
hope centres on locating a payable ex-
tension of the lode being successfully
worked in the adjoining Central Nell
Gwynne. There is a 30-head battery
running at the Napoleon, where all cos.
crush. Elaborate surface and other
equipment was installed before anything
definite had been proved.
* * * *
Stuart Mill Alluvial Gold, N.L., is a
£lO,OOO float (£1 shares) which will
employ a tower drag-scraper elevator,
used extensively overseas when the wash
is too shallow to warrant the expense of
a bucket dredge, or values are too low or
water-supply inadequate to permit
hydraulicking. The proposed dragline
unit, mounted on skids, will comprise two
one-c.y. buckets capable of handling 100
c.y. hourly. The co.’s property, near
Avoca (Vic.), has been estimated to con-
tain 1,000,000 c.y., average value 2s.
Lying on a pipeclay bottom, the leads
average 88 yards in width and vary from
10ft. to 22ft. in depth. Costs aren’t ex-
pected to exceed 6d. per yard, which
would mean a gross working profit of
£75,000, provided estimates are realised.
Mining engineer J. J. Hunter did the
testing. Public is offered 8000 shares,
2OOO paids, plus £5OO cash, go to
the vendor.
* * * *
Great Boulder Prop. (W.A.) continues
to open up nicely at depth. Ore reserves
are steadily extending, thanks to good
developments in the northern (Hamil-
ton’s) section of the mine, where higher-
than-average value ore has recently been
exposed at 2000 ft. Details concerning
the new make have not been broadcast,
but the board expects ore, when treated,
to raise the average grade of the monthly
output from the mine. Also, half a
’weight of the gold that used to get away
in the tailings is now being recovered
owing to the good work done by the
metallurgical staff. For the four months
to the end of April, the co. treated
66,574 short tons for an estimated
revenue of £146,145, an average of 435.
lOd. a ton —head value of ore not stated.
Including regular development, costs
were 28s. 3d. per ton (£93,930), leaving
a working surplus of £52,215 (15s. 7d.
per ton). Capital expenditure on special
mine development was £29,909 ; machin-
ery and plant, £33,833 ; mine prepara-
tion, £7889. Treatment capacity (17,480
tons was put through in April) is to be
stepped up to 25,000 tons a month in
1938. Not long ago Great Boulder
Mining and Finance took up (on the re-
commendation of Claude de Bernales,
now Great Boulder’s chairman) 166,667
previously unissued shares at Bs. 6d. (stg.l
each, or about 3s. more than they are
now quoted in London.
* * * *
On June 22 Boulder Perseverance
(W.A.) will pay a 25 p.c. div. (less 2s.
lid. in the £stg. income tax) in respect
of the 12 months to the end of Dec.,
1936, compared with 17£, 25, 30, 30 and
20 p.c. back to 1931. Allowing for ex-
change, etc., the June payment will be
worth 265. Bd. for each 100 shilling
shares to those on the Australian register.
To provide more working capital and
for purchase of most of B.H.P.’s interest
in Kalgoorlie Enterprise (W.A.), the co.
put out 1,500,000 new shilling shares at
2s. 6d. (stg.) each in January. Proved
and possible ore reserves to the 1600 ft.
level on the Enterprise are figured at
450,000 tons, of which 180,000, averag-
ing 7.4dwt., are proved. The intention
is to treat 5000 tons of this ore monthly
at an estimated cost of 365. per ton, leav-
ing a mine profit of 20s. The old profit-
sharing notes have been redeemed.
* # * *
At New Yilgarn, Southern Cross
(W.A.), some 7000 tons of ore, averaging
about 19dwt., has been proved. H. E.
Vale, who recently ran the rule over the
property, recommends further develop-
ment work to prove the extension of the
ore-body, installation of a more efficient
air-compressor and reconditioning of the
shaft.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
R.F.W. and E.F.: The bonds are a long-
term speculation for which there is no open
market. Write secretary and ask if he can find
a buyer for you L.F.G.: (1) and (2) Hold.
W.H.: Put the scrip away; something may
come of the show in the long run S.C.:
Looks like a reasonable spec, at present price.
. ...T.M.8.: Doubtful speculation; impossible
to say what profits, if any, likely to be earned.
S.A.A.: M.L.C.... .S.C.: (1) No. (2) No gold-
mine is a safe investment. Shares are reason-
able spec. at present price. Last div. 374- p.c.,
Dec., 1936. (3) No record... .H. 5.8.: Fair
long-term prospects of capital appreciation;
matured in 1935, but co. availed itself of pro-
tection of Moratorium Act Perplexed: (1)
Sell. (2) Hold.
INVENTORS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.'
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 483
Collins Street. Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
* * # #
AUSTRALASIAN timberlands and plantation
valuation surveys, milling plants, certification of
shipments. L. MACINTOSH ELLIS, B.Sc. (late
Director State Forest Service, New Zealand), Consult-
ing Forest Engineer, 8 Bond Street, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * ~ *
METALS. —If you want to sell Ores, Metals. Scrap,
or buy Refined Tin, Antimony, Solders, Type Metals,
Bearing Metals and other Alloys, try O. T.
LEMPRIERE & CO. PTY., LTD., Bowden Street,
Alexandria, Sydney.— -Advt.
4: * *
FERRODOR (Anti-corrosive) PAINT is used on
all Railway Bridges in New South Wales 1 Suffi-
cient proof of its quality. For all wooden surfaces
also. Sole Agents, William Adams & Company,
Limited, 175 Clarence Street, Sydney.— Advt.


SMOKE-OH!
Misunderstood.
Since you’ve gone away l find
I’ve had a change of heart and mind.
I see you as you used to be,
So tender and concerned with me,
So bright and charming and appealing
And somehow, dear, I have the feeling
That I will love you more each day
Provided that you stay away.
Cuatro.
*I« 4* *l*
“There are still believers in rue love.”
— “S. M. Herald.’’
Granny, don’t be cynical!
4* 4* 4 1 4*
“In Hungary they bleed (he 'groom at his
wedding.”
Well, he’s got to get used to it some-
time.
4* 4* 4*
“Aim at a bright and attractive garage.”
—Motor note.
Better still —aim to miss it.
4* 4" 4* 4*
“How many persons now living will reach
the age of 140 years?” — Health magazine.
Well, those living double lives might
stand a chance.
4* 4* 4 1 4*
Putting a man’s nose to the grindstone
doesn’t sharpen him up.
4* 4* 4* 4*
He said that he would kiss me
Just to make the journey blither.
/ said he mustn’t dare to,
And the poor fish didn’t either.
Noelle.
4* T* 4* 4*
“A baby weighing 141 b. was born in Mel-
bourne recently.”
A foundation stone.
4* 4* 4* *l*
Dog-breeders are the only people who
can sell a man a pup and yet leave him
satisfied.
*l* *s*
“Next to prayer, fishing does a man most
good,” says a Sydney angler.
It is not so good for the sole, however.
4* 4* 4* 4*
A Car-rickature.
“Henry Ford invents a car with the engine
at the back.” — News item.
This must be a modified copy of my
original “Tally-Ho,”a self-seizing, spinnet-
headed one-lunger with a Kumapart
gearbox, adjustable ashpan, ball-bearing
S trap and a case-hardened governor.
The engine was slung on a corrugated-
iron base between the differential and the
mortgage. I had the windscreen moved
so that it looked out over the engine, and
then the seats so that the passengers and
driver wouldn’t have to turn round to
follow the road.
The hood was also put back-to-front.
Even the doors I had shifted. Those on
one side I put on the other, and those
on the other the other, so that, except for
being on the opposite side, they were in
the same position as before, only dif-
ferent. Any Parliamentary draughtsman
will follow this description.
Then there were the brakes and clutch.
I had to put them under the back-seat
driver’s feet. Instead of the engine driv-
ing the rear wheels I altered it so as it
would drive the front ones the reverse
way; but I shifted the back ones to
the front and the front ones to the back
to keep it all different. That just about
completed the job. It went all right, too,
except for a couple of trivial details. The
front wheels were pushing against the
back ones and the windscreen-wiper was
wiping the big-end bearing; but these I
quickly adjusted.
There was no doubt about it that
Tally-Ho was something out of the box.
Of course, as nobody could tell whether
I was driving it forwards or backwards,
one-way streets meant nothing to me.
I’d invented it, of course, so that the
missus wouldn’t go through the end wall
of the garage, which I’d also turned back-
to-front. But she blanked it up even
then. Went through it sideways.
R. B.
“A man will do anything for a woman he
really loves,” says a writer.
Including his wad.
•I* 4* 4* *l*
“Modern wives, as a rule, are more wor-
ried than their mothers,” says a doctor.
The perplexing question of which hus-
hand to remarry is certainly a wrinkle-
producer.
•J*
“Dancing is the natural form of self-expres-
sion,” says a psychologist.
Especially after hitting your thumb
with a hammer.
►l* *l-
- becomes boxer.”
Judging by the use. they make of the
clutch, quite a lot of boxers should be
taxi-drivers.
*l* -I* *!* 'l*
“Interest, whatever the subject is_, makes us
spiritually rich.”— “S. M. Herald.”
And—if we have to pay it—financially
poor.
•J#
“Brewery barley confiscated in Munich for
more important purposes.”
More important?
“Jones must have arrived home sooner than his missus expected."
“A man with money has no difficulty in
finding a wife,” says a woman’s paper.
Naturally. With money to burn he’s
not likely to go short of a match.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Joe rows with his wife, and to drown ail
his trouble
He drinks like a fish till he sees all things
double;
But when he has ceased all his wassail
to mingle,
Oh, what would he give just to see him-
self single !
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Clergyman says that more money is needed
to ‘chase Sin from its lurking-places.’ ”
So money, it appears, can be the rout
of all evil, too.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Seasonable Soliloquy.
Winter is here. Redbreasts flit over
the paddocks, and red noses sniff over
the soup. Daffodils poke greenly through
the chilled earth, and the family axe gets
hopelessly stuck in the. knotty log. Foot-
ballers belatedly decide that they want
a clearance, and frantically-knitting
females wonder if they should begin to
turn the heel.
S.ps. continue to lay ’em, but hens
don’t. Days are short, nights are long
and crown pieces (we believe) are
around. The sun takes a short cut from
horizon to horizon, but the National
favorite goes once round with the hurdles
30 feet out from the rails. A school kid
up in the Mallee finds the first harbinger
of spring, and the local storekeeper duns
the kid’s old man for a bit on account.
A naturalist reports a lyrebird to have
laid a solitary egg somewhere in Sher-
brooke Forest, and next day our Bright-
est Daily comes out with a long-focus,
twio-in-one, odds and evens, infra-red
picture of the goog’s proud mummie.
Snow is falling on the high (atishoo)
alps, and we’ll (atishoo, atishoo) hab to
ged a boddle ob rub.
Hanko.
4* 4* *l*
“The shock of losing the land where he
had planned to build his home was responsible
lor his temporary insanity.”—' “Herald."
Out of site, out of mind.
4< 4* *•* 4*
“Counterfeit live-shilling pieces were circu-
lating in Melbourne three days after the issue
of the genuine coins.”
The forger's “crown-ing” accomplish-
ment.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“A mechanical man that does everything
but think has been invented in America.”
The Yanks are behind the times—
we've had ’em on our legislative benches
for vears.
-1-
“Brisbane housewives complain of high fish
prices.”
it’s a soar point with ’em.
“What would you like to hear your favorite
crooner sing?” —Broadcasting station advt.
Mendelssohn’s “Songs without Words.”
4* 4* 4* 4*
Unwanted Things—How to Get
Rid Of.
Used Razor Blades.—Place them in
empty matchboxes and keep them for
the pest who wants to borrow a light in
the middle of the night.
Old Periodicals. —Any dentist or doctor
will be delighted to oblige you.
Hawkers. —Rush out in a state of
hysteria, throw yourself upon the hawker
and exclaim: “Quick, doctor, for heaven’s
sake! Mother’s got smallpox, or it
might be bubonic.”
Relations. —Three or four times a week
allow them to mind the children.
The Bailiff. —This caller calls for a
ready action. The ready part of it is
important. Hand it over, and, unless the
bailiff detects anything counterfeit, he
will depart. An alternative is that you
yourself depart—unbeknown to the
bailiff, of course.
Yankee Crooners, Hill-billies, Local
Imitators and Suchlike. —There is nothing
to be done but to go and live in America.
U.S.A. is exporting its unwanted stuff
out here.
Turoar.
Hints for Husbands.
X.— Fathercraft: Training the Child.
As nominal head of the household a
husband should exercise judiciously the
authority that all writers of fiction agree
is vested in him. Particularly does this
apply to the maintenance of a firm dis-
cipline over the children. This, however,
should be tempered with tact.
It is always best to ignore any naughty
remark made by a child, as either laugh-
ing at or correcting it will only lead to
showing-off and a repetition of the offence.
The four-year-old who tells you to “shut
up,’’ for instance, will soon drop it after
a while if you take no notice of him.
All child psychologists are agreed on
this, and they are right. He’ll quickly
tire of saying the same thing over again :
in fact, he will probably have quite for-
gotten this remark within a day or so
and will improve on it with “Shut your
ugly mug!” You will doubtless think
this rather cute and boast about it to
your friends, but it would be as well not
to tell the child this.
Similarly, should you overhear young
Russell telling the next-door kid that
“Mum roared the old man up again last
night and the poor cow didn't say a
word,” pretend that you didn’t hear him.
The probability is that he won’t say it
again—at least not to the next-door kid.
When the inevitable brawl between the
children starts at the. breakfast-table
maintain a strict impartiality. This is
best done by ignoring the whole thing.
.Should you interfere you will be met
with a sharp “Now, Henry, it’s no use
the two of us telling them. 7’ve been
checking them, and one’s quite enough.”
If, on the other hand, you don’t say
anything, you may expect “That’s right!
How you can sit there with all that din
going on / don’t know. Yon let the
children do absolutely as they like,” etc.,
etc. So just go on reading the paper
until the criticism of your parental slack-
ness commences —and finishes. You’ll
get it, anyway, so why waste breath in
the first place?
Be very careful of your language in
front of the children. Should you be
running up the back steps and miss one
and belt your shin, or bob up suddenly
while chopping wood under the raised
back verandah and dong your skull on
the low hardwood joist, don’t let your-
self go like you do at the office. When
little Shirley asks “Did Dadums hurt his-
self?” just smile pleasantly and say "No,
pet ; Daddy’s just having a little game.”
When, later, she drops her doll and says
“Damanblastit!” (obviously picked up
from a passing bottle-oh or somebody),
which brings the caustic comment from
her mother that “You ought to be
ashamed of yourself, using language like
that for the child to pick up —she doesn’t
know any better,” etc., you will at least
have a clear conscience, if that is any
good to you.
Respect should be inculcated at an
early age, otherwise you will never get it.
One father (he was over 80) wrote to me
lor advice concerning his four-months-
old child, which had pointed its finger
at him, laughed and said “Ga! Ga!”
He was rightly appalled at such disre-
spect, manifested by this questioning of
its parent’s mentality by an infant, and
said it just showed what the present
generation was coming to. I explained to
him that the fact of his being an octo-
genarian father constituted him a genius,
that this attribute had probably been
inherited by the child, rendering it pre-
cocious, and that little could be done
about it, as the child hadn’t been taken
in hand early enough. I have often
wondered why I didn’t hear from him
again. But his case amply demonstrates
the need for very early training in this
phase of a child’s upbringing ; the pre-
rattle-and-dribble age is the ideal time to
start.
Teaching the child to be tidy and
methodical is another duty that devolves
upon the conscientious father. Do this
and you will be saved from hearing such
continual admonition as “Johnnie, come
here and pick up this cardigan at once!
How many more times have I to tell you
not to leave things lying about? You’re
getting just like your father.” Give him
a practical demonstration of how to slip
off his clothes and kick them deftly under
the middle of the bed where they won’t
be seen ; of dispensing with a dirty singlet
by tossing it behind “The Sea Hath Its
Pearls,” which hangs over the dressing-
table, whence it can be gathered for the
clothes-basket at some more convenient
time ; and of sliding your old boots be-
hind the bedroom door. You thus save
him from committing the most heinous
crime in the domestic calendar —that of
leaving things about where they can be
seen, while at the same time you are in-
stilling in him the rudiments of an art
he will find useful when he marries.
S. W. K.


Myer Emporium.
At 365. 6d. last week the ords.
in Melbourne’s largest retail store
were good buying, even though the
interim div. was no higher than
in the preceding year. Yield on
an 84- p.c. basis is £4 13s. 2d. per-
cent. Business conditions remain
good.
Bigger Income .
Better Safety
Troß secur,^
IyjONTH by month an increasing number of people
recognise the intrinsic worth of FIRST AUSTRALIAN
UNIT TRUST CERTIFICATES for small investors. Every-
body desires safety and as large a return as possible from
an investment, and to-day these Certificates provide an
unequalled margin of security, potential capital appreciation,
p/MS attractive interest yield—all this for anyone who has
approx. £25 or more to invest. In one simple transaction,
investors money is spread over shares of the following
leading Australian Companies:—
Commercial Bank of Aust., Ltd.
The Adelaide S.S. Co., Ctd.
Tooth & Co., X,td.
Associated Newspapers, Ctd.
A’sian Paper and Pulp Co., Ltd.
Australian Glass- Mftrs. Co., Ptd.
Broken Hill Proprietary Co., Ptd
Colonial Sugar Refining Co., J,td.
David .Tones, litd.
Drug Houses of Australia, I.td.
Dunlop Perdriau. Rubber Co., Ltd.
Electro. Zinc Co. of A/sia; Ltd.
General Industries, Ltd.
(Joldsbrough, Mort & Co., Ltd;
Henry Jones Co-operative, Ltd.
Kandos Cement Co., Ltd.
Sargents, Ltd.
W. R. Carpenter & Co., Ltd.
Yarra Ralls, Ltd.
Broken Hill South, Ltd.
A world-famous institution— Union Insurance Society of
Canton, Ltd. (Union Building, Bond Street, Sydney)— acts
as Custodian Trustees and distributes the Income twice*
yearly, on June 15 and December 15.
If you want to know more about this safe and
profitable method of investment, write for booklet
No. I to the Managers of the Trust:
AUSTRALIAN FIXED TRUSTS PTY., LTD.,
8-14 BOND STREET, SYDNEY.
TELEPHONE: 85294. BOX 4028 V.Y., G.P.O.
ESTABLISHED
1834
THE
Commercial Banking Company
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND * £4,300,000 0 0
(Used wholly in the business)
RESERVE CAPITAL .. £4,739,012 10 0
DIRECTORS:
JAMES ASHTON (Chairman); EDWARD R. KNOX;
OWEN E. FRIEND; SIR WM. VICARS, C.8.E.;
ORWELL PHILLIPS.
General Manager:
C. DARVALL.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS
TRANSACTED
Head Office: 343 George Street, Sydney
London Office:
18 BFRCHIN LANE, LOMBARD STREET, E.C.3.
London Bankers:
The Bank of England; Westminster Bank, Ltd.; Barclay’s
Bank, Ltd.; National Provincial Bank, Ltd.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout—
New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, South Australia.
And at Canberra, Federal Territory.
Agents throughout the World.
Business,Rollery,Etc.
Mount Morgan
Shareholders in Mount Morgan have
watched with perturbation the slide in
market quotations from 19s. 3d. per 2s.
6d. share in March to below 13s. last
week. It is not the first time in recent
months that low figures have been ac-
cepted for the scrip ; in August last 12s.
3d. was taken when rumors were abroad
that the div. was going to cut out. The
rumor proved correct. Since then the lift
in the price of copper and the directors’
announcement that divs. would be re-
sumed on July 10 sent the scrip up to
the high point in March, only to slide
again as mentioned. Metal- and share-
market conditions have not been favor-
able the past few weeks. One of share-
holders’ worries has been the new low-
grade treatment plant; and there are
other matters disturbing them.
The present Mount Morgan co. was
formed in 1929, commenced quarrying
operations in October, 1932, and pro-
duction of concentrates the same finan-
cial year. At the annual meeting held
on Nov. 23, 1933, chairman Eric Camp-
bell mentioned a survey that showed,
indisputably,” 8,000.000 tons of ore,
assaying 4.4dwt. gold and 1.72 p.c.
copper, of which further investigations
indicated that 2,210,379 tons averaged
5.64dwt. gold and 0.84 p.c. copper.
Grade of ore sent to the mill in 1933-
m^ as 5 - 9dwt 8° Id ; 1934-35, s.Bdwt.;
1935-36, 4.25dwt. Each year between 40
p.c. and 43 p.c. of the ore was described
as overburden. During the current term
assay values fell away from 4.26dwt. in
to 3.o3dwt. in January,
1937. Since the low-grade mill for treat-
!c’i. ox^l ' sed ore came info production
(February), assay values have not been
published.
Quantity of ore treated, recovery of
gold and copper in concentrate, and
annual net profits for the three years
1933-34 to 1935-36 are here compared
with production figures for the first 42
weeks of the current term:
Ore Net
Vmr Treated, Gold, Copper, Profit,
1933-34 .. 15330 30°393 80^569
\Hf\l ■■ 177,780 33,832 844 llO^fl
42Wks “ 2 ' 9 ’ 929 35,618 1513 104)961
1936-37’ .. 299,384* 29,034 1,472
* Includes 43,534 tons oxidised ore.
Average recovery of gold was 3.96dwt.
a ton in 1933-34; 3.Bdwt., ’34-35;
_.7dwt., ’35-36. During the first 30
weeks of the current term, when the sul-
phide mill alone was in production, the
average recovery was 2.ldwt. ; since the
low-grade oxide-treatment plant started
and the tonnage was stepped up 60 p.c..
the average has been I.7dwt.
The persistent and sharp drop in the
grade of ore treated and in the content
recovered has made good bear talk. Gold
in ore assaying 3dwt., with 64 p.c.
recovery, would fall short of last year’s
all-in costs by about 4s. 6d. a ton of
ore, so that in such circumstances pro-
fits would not be equal to the full revenue
from copper. However, partly because
of higher production,' and' in a measure
because of additions to the power-plant,
there was a downward trend in working
costs last term that may continue during
the current period. The following figures
do not include refining and overhead
charges, which were last year equal'to
7s. a ton: —.
Costs
1933-34. * 1934-35. 1935-36.
Mining .. 7s. 2.0 d. 7s. 5.0 d. ss. 10.9 d.
Treatment .. Bs. 10.6 d. 10s. 6.7 d. 9s. 0.5 d.
The co. paid its first div. on Dec. 18,
1933, when paid-up capital was £172,088.
Since then shareholders and the general
public have put up nearly £90,000 more
in capital and premiums than the co. has
paid out in dividends:
Capital and
Divs. Premiums
Paid. Raised.
1933- .. .. £34,418 £27,912
1934- .. .. 80,000 128,413
'.935-36 .. .. 127,599 111,952
1936-37 .. .. 34,762 97,125*
£276,779 £365,402
* Approximate.
It has been largely a period of
establishment. Most of the new
money raised has gone into plant,
which has been lifted greatly in
capacity. When making the last share-
issue (to the public, by tender, at an
average price of 16s. 2.2 d. per 2s. 6d.
share) the chairman said it was not in-
tended to further increase the capital of
the co., as additional expenditure would
be mainly on repairs, maintenance and
renewals, to be met out of revenue.
The operation of the low-grade plant to
date has been definitely disappointing,
and apparently of little or no help to
profits. Main difficulties have been in the
filter-system and settling-tanks; T. M.
Owen is working hard on the problem
now, and it should be overcome with
time and experience.
The chief item of concern is that of
ore reserves. Why did assay values drop
from s.Bdwt. gold in ’34-35 to 4.25dwt.
in ’35-36, and to a shade over 3dwt. for
the 18 weeks to February 3?
The Bulletin has been told that over-
burden has increased as production steps
up, and that the mill is far ahead of the
mine. The opencut from which the ore is
won is like a cup with slanting sides dug
out of the peak of the Mount. As the
bottom of the cup is sunk deeper in
obtaining ore, the sides get steeper, and
have to be “bevelled off” outside the ore
reserves (which roughly form the core
of the Mount), thus bringing an
increasing quantity of overburden into
the. milling ore. As the workings widen
out this problem should disappear.
Mr. Campbell says it is not a ques-
tion of disappointment with ore reserves,
but a temporary inability to get at the
ore owing to lack of working faces.
•Development is expected to overcome
this difficulty by the end of 1937.
This paper has also been informed that
mining policy is now to treat all ore
classified in the 7,506,000 tons measured
up (by the old Mount Morgan co.)
and assaying 4.26dwt., and not merely
to select stone from the 2,000,000-odd
tons of “readily accessible” ore assaying
5.64dwt., as was apparently done previ-
ously.
The long-term position seems sound if
estimates of ore reserves are correct and
costs do not rise. Considerable develop-
ment on the mine, however, appears to
be required before the dividend position
will become attractive. In carrying out
that development it may be necessary
for a space to retain a substantial pro-
portion of the profits in order to meet
the cost. Nevertheless the div. promised
for July is assured, and should be well
covered by earnings.
Canberra is hopeful that Britain will
extend its preference on Australian sugar
for the period of the international agree-
ment (five, years). According to Dr.
Page, the preference amounts to “substan-
tially £3 15s. a ton.”
* * * *
Australian Glass’s final ord. div. of
9 p.c. made 15 p.c. for the year, an un-
changed rate. A weakening in quotes for
the scrip followed —925., after 945. 6d.
At the lower figure the yield is about
£3 6s. p.c., allowing for the div. accrued.
* * *
Broken Hill Prop, scrip remained weak
up to Saturday last, and at times the con-
tribs. changed hands at 755. 6d., with the
fully-paids at 82s. The latter, cum div.,
return about £3 2s. p.c. immediately, and
there are chances of new capital issues
later. The labor situation at Rylands’
works is more favorable, and the eco-
nomic position so far as the co.’s pro-
ducts are concerned continues to im-
prove ; the price of steel has risen sharply
overseas, but B.H.P.’s products, which
were dropped in price two years ago,
have not yet been lifted in sympathy.
Production at the Newcastle works con-
tinues at record volume.
* * * *
Goliath Portland Cement (Tas.), which
sells most of its product in the mainland
States, declared an interim at rate of
15 p.c. p.a. last week, as against lOp.c.
p.a. this time last year, and, with bonus,
124 p.c. p.a. for the full 1935-36 term.
The present is the highest interim ever
paid by the co., though 15 p.c. was dis-
tributed in respect of the whole of the
1934-35 year. Hydro-electric schemes
in the Speck have had a special effect on
earnings, but recent results indicate that
the cement industry generally is pros-
perous. Goliath’s 13s. 4d. shares rose
smartly from 345. to 355. 9d. the day the
div. was announced, yielding £5 14s. p.c.
on a 15 p.c. basis. On 10 p.c. divs. (last
year’s distribution) Australian Cement
and Kandos both returned about £6 6s.
per cent, last week.
* * * *
Through its managers,. Australian Fixed
Trusts Pty., the First Australian Unit
Trust announces a half-yearly distribu-
tion of 6jd. per sub-unit, equal to
p.c. on the market price of 245. per sub-
unit. The trust carries forward a sum
caual to 0.356 d. per sub-unit. It is a
satisfactory yield from a wide selection
of stocks.
* * * *
The Henry Jones Co. has declared an
interim div. of 6d. a share, payable June
1, the same rate as for 1935-36. In that
term a final of Is. 6d. went out, making
10 p.c. for the year. At the present
niarket of 475. 9d., cum div., the yield
is £4 4s. 9d. per cent. Profits for last
term, equal to 13.7 p.c. on capital, were
a record. The stock touched 51s. before
the bonus issue (one for two) of 1927.
Lowest depression-time quote was
around 18s. Though visible reserves of
the parent are now 85 p.c. higher than
before the 1927 free issue, it should be
remembered that the gift scrip in that
case came from the revalution of hold-
ings in subsidiaries, which stood in the
books at £2,269,493 on Oct. 31, 1936.
H= * * *
In Melbourne last week:
Rothsay gold shares were at around 4id.,
following sales in Adelaide at that figure. Lake
View and Stars receded to 235. 3d., Great
Boulders to 75., and North Kalgurlis to 19s.
Emperors, Lolomas and Koroeres were weak,
as were Mt. Morgans. Jt was a bad week for
gold-share holders.
Extensive sales of G. J. Coles shares took
place at £5 95., after £5 17s. the preceding
week. A. W. Coles left for Sydney to discuss
further the possibilities of a merger with Wool-
worths. Investors are a little chary of mergers,
remembering that, from one cause and another,
United Provisions, General Industries and
other big pre-depression tie-ups got little or no
immediate benefit from the move.


THE MODERN
HANDSET TELEPHONE
The handset illustrated is the latest type
of telephone. Shapely in form and
simple to use; it combines grace of line
with efficiency in working.
The freedom of movement which a handset
allows is particularly convenient for anyone who
wishes to consult papers or make notes whilst
using the telephone.
And it costs only 2d. per week more than an
instrument of the ordinary pedestal type.
Install freely these modern aids to efficient telephone
communication. The Department will gladly replace
your existing telephones with handsets. There is no
replacement fee.
gh
Telephone or write to . . . - The Superintendent ,
Telephone Branch, General Posl Office and your
wishes will be attended to promptly.
Two Splendid Lathes for Small Work!
m m
1
Ideal
for the
Home
Craftsman
34in. Centre
Screw-cutting
Lathe
Bench Pattern Hollow Spindle.
HEADSTOCK is arranged with 3-step cone. Spindle
is of steel and has fin. hole. Bearings are of phosphor-
bronze.
SADDLE is fitted with rest which will swivel to any
angle desired; large slotted table for boring.
COMPLETE with face plate, 9 change wheels, includ-
ing 20, 25, 30, 35, 40, 45, 50, 52, 55, also counter-
shaft. Foot Motor can be supplied as extra.
DIMENSIONS: Height of centres 34in., length of bed
2ft. 2in., diameter of work admitted over boring
table sin., diameter over bed 7in., nose of spindle 3in.
diameter. Headstock and tailstock centres conform
to No. 1 Morse taper.
Diameter of cones 6in., 4in., by 24in. by lin. Plat
belt.
Admits between centres 14in. Diameter of face plate
Oin.
Price with Countershaft £l3
Price with Foot Motor £l4
Our new No. 37 Catalogue illustrates and describes all
Have you sent in your name yet?
"Adept" Bench Lathe
\ real English Lathe, less than 12in. long; simple yet complete
with essentials'; and priced to suit every hobbyist,,home mechanic
and ear owner. .•, i •
lfin. centres, Gin. between centres, overall length IM” 1 -
Screw tall stock, lead screw, compound slide rest. luce, as
iHustrated 45/- < Plus Sales TaX>
With sliding instead of screw tailstock, 47/6 (Plus S&1® 8
Fitted to treadle or small motor, these wonderful little lathes
will solve many of the Tool User’s difficulties.
We stock 3-jaw Dog Chuck to suit.
the tools and supplies that model-makers and hobbyists need.
&
c
Proprietary Limited
51 Bathurst St., Sydney,
546 Collins St., Melbourne,
and at
Adelaide and Perth.
"Adept" Foot Motor
Light arid easy' to operate, this foot
motor will give a steady drive to small
lathes and other machine tools. Two
speeds can be obtained.
Price . . 35/- (Plus Sales Tax)
T. R. Victor (engineer) and F. M-
Murdoch (metallurgist) have given their
report on Mandated Alluvials’ property,
near Port Moresby (Papua). They ceitn y
to 13,500 tons of oxidised ore, with pos-
sibilities of 20,000 tons; values go 13dwt.
sold, 25dwt. silver and 1.25 p.c. c °PP^ r '
There are also “solid bodies” of sulphide
ore (3dwt. gold and 4 p.c. copper), not
yet measured up, but which appear to go
down —just how far down depends on
the depth of the felsite in which the
occurs. Recommendation is that the
stone be smelted as copper ore, with
recovery of gold and silver also. With
1500 tons sulphides thrown in, average
extractable value from 15,000 tons is put
at £5 16s. (Aust.) —gold £8 10s. an ounce,
silver 2s. 3d., copper £BO a ton. Costs
are put at £3 a ton, surplus £2 16s. a
ton, and total estimated profit at £42,000
from positive ore. The somewhat full
price on which the copper content has
been taken into account should be more
than offset by the rather low basis for
gold. The profit anticipated by the
present investigators is £14,374 higher
than that estimated by E. W. Bonwick
following his look at the show —appar-
ently all a matter of difference of opinion
on the point of extractable values. The
later estimate amounts to slightly less
than 9s. a share. Plant cost was put by
Mr. Bonwick at from £6OOO to £14,000,
according to whether old or new machin-
ery was installed. The co. has over
£lO,OOO in hand, and its ss. shares are
at 3s.
* * v
Managing-director E. G. Theodore
says that ore developed on the proper-
ties of Koroere Gold, N.L., Tavua, Fiji,
does not warrant outlay on a modern
treatment plant, and recommends that
they be merged with those of some other
co. on the field, such as Emperor, which
could treat the ore with advan-
tage. to both interests. On the Cardigan
35,000 tons containing 17,500 ounces is
said to be reasonably proved, with ex-
pectations of further tonnage from the
southern extension of the lode; “ap-
proximately 100,000 tons, average grade
34dwt., can be expected from the
Koroere Hill area.” The latter property
(100 acres) adjoins the southern bound-
ary of the Emperor and Loloma leases,
while the Cardigan (also 100 acres) is
south of that again, Koroere’s extreme
southern boundary being something over
half a mile from the Emperor workings.
There are 90,000 10s. fully-paids in
Koroere Gold, and 210,000 contribs. paid
to 45., the latter dropping below par last
week. The directors of the co. suggest
that development be carried on for a
further 12 months, involving the call-
ing-up of 6d. a share, and that Mr. Theo-
dore’s proposal should then be again
considered. In October, 1935, the con-
tribs. (then paid to 35.) sold up to 265.
each.
* * * *
John McGrath, Ltd., and T. J.
Richards and Sons, Ltd., the motor and
body-building concerns each making a
new issue of shares, did not hold their
full market appreciation last week. The
fact that shares allotted to Chrysler-
Dodge distributors would give them a
controlling interest in T. J. Richards
apparently took some of the pleasure out
of shareholders’ outlook, and the scrip
weakened to 475. 9d., after sales at 51s.
McGrath’s shares saw 525., then came
back to 50s. —in this case apparently just
a market reaction.
* * * • *
“The demand for new automobiles will
undoubtedly be strong this year,” said
chairman E. W. Holden at G.M.-Holden’s
annual meeting, “especially as a large
number of vehicles have passed their
usefulness. In addition, improved con-
ditions are making the necessary finances
available for most potential purchasers.”
It is a fact that at the moment condi-
tions are exceptionally good, in the coun-
try as well as the city. A pleasing feature
has been the check to climbing interest
rates. The thing to be carefully guarded
against at present is mounting costs of
any kind.
❖** ' *
Melbourne Steamship ords. changed
hands at 30s. last week, the highest quote
for some time. Adelaide scrip has been
fairly firm also ; improvement in freight
rates and general earnings has influ-
enced the market in both cases,
though the sudden apathy in colliery
scrip after the speculative interest extend-
ing over some months has caused the
withdrawal of some attention from Adel-
aide Steam.
After last sales at 10s., the market has
gone cold on J. and A. Brown-Abermain
Seaham shares, offering 75., with sellers
at 9s. 6d. Though general conditions are
somewhat better, the price-stabilisation
agreement has not been reached so far
—and it was hopes of such an agreement
* * * *
g a j t j c simplex Machinery Co. had
firgt annU£d meeting as a public co.
the other day . formed in 1905, for the
past 14 years not i ess than g p . c . p.a. has
been pa j d on t he ord . shares. Only the
7pc pre f. shares, however, are listed on
Melbourne ’Change; buyers offer 235.
for them. Finances are comfortable, and
the co. has recently extended its manu-
facturing activities, Which apply chiefly
to dairy-farm machinery. Trade at
present is brisk.
N= * =:= *
Morris, Hedstrom’s final div. of 3£ p.c.,
making 5| p.c. for the term, did not
please the sharemarket, and towards the
end of the week there were sellers at
295., as against sales at 335. earlier this
year. Most recent quote for South Seas
copra was £l5 ss. stg. a ton, as against
£2l a couple of months ago. At-295.
Morris Hedstrom shares would yield 5
p.c. on a 6i p.c. div. basis when exchange
on Fiji is taken into account.


SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Just when Victorians were beginning
to deplore the death of good Grand
National material a natural jumper of
distinct promise has come to light. Mak-
ing his first public appearance over stiff
obstacles, Bermuda (Lanius-Toussaint)
won the Autumn Steeple at Williamstown
by a dozen lengths from old Underwood,
with the equally ancient Tongalla a
moderate third.
Bermuda, a stallion only four years
old, had schooled brilliantly over the Wil-
liamstown fences with Vigorene, a geld-
ing that Alick Fullarton trains and rides.
On the strength of this Bermuda was
made a hot favorite, at 2 to 1, with
“sevens bar one” on offer.
Rushed to the front, Vigorene led Ber-
muda by three lengths to the fence near
the six-furlongs post, where he struck
heavily and would have crashed but for
Fullarton’s splendid horsemanship. Some
months ago Bermuda lost a hurdle race
at Moonee Valley through dropping the
bit after gaining command. Jennings
feared that history might repeat itself
and kept niggling at his mount, but Ber-
muda came home resolutely.
Ability to jump was bred in Bermuda.
When first put into training he made a
habit of leaping out of the stable yard,
clearing a sft. 7in. fence in the process.
Ihe structure had to be heightened by
the addition of an extra rail. Old Mun-
gindi, with whom the late J. C. Finn
won the G.N. Steeple of 1917 for the
Rajah of Pudakota, made an almost
standing jump over a 6ft. fence, imperil-
ling the life of Finn’s grandchild, seated
in the shade of the exercise yard. Will
Bermuda prove as good as Old Mun-
gindi? It is at least possible.
A feature of the steeplechase result
was that the placed horses belong to fol-
lowers of the Oaklands Hunt Club. Ber-
muda is the first horse to be raced by
J. P. Considine, who succeeded his de-
ceased father as a wholesale butcher at
Footscray. The late F. W. Purches, of
Patron and Portsea fame, was in the
same line of business.
Newly-knighted H. Alan Currie is
fond of jumpers. In 1915 he won the
National Steeple with Flash Jack and
eight years later landed the National
Hurdle with Berrinbo. The colors of
the V.R.C. chairman were carried to vic-
tory by Bridge of Mar in the Kororoit
Hurdle on Saturday.
Like Bermuda in the crosscountry
event, Bridge of Mar went out at cramped
odds. Six to four in the ring he paid 12s.
for ss. on the s.o. tote. Bridge of Mar
scored comfortably from Marshland and
Strobus, but his performance wasn’t alto-
gether impressive, Strobus came home
very strongly, and will, have to be
reckoned with in the three-miler at Flem-
ington in July. He is trained by Tom
Waghorn, who prepared Sparkling
Moselle for a surprise victory in the
National Hurdle of 1926.
Desert Chief did not accept for the
Bay View Handicap. Art had done an
excellent trial and was strongly sup-
ported. He was well in the picture to
the home turn, but ran fourth only,
tiring over the last furlong. When Art
won the Werribee Cup and Modnee
Valley Cup of 1935 he led from end to
end. Bonus and Ardashir made the early
pace too hot for Art on Saturday,
The style in which Black Mac (5 to 2,
favorite) annexed the Bay View Handi-
cap makes it incomprehensible how he
came to suffer defeat in the Coronation
Handicap at Epsom a week before.
Bonus finished a close third at Epsom,
where Spearflash won from Strymon.
Meeting Black Mac on merely a pound
worse terms, Bonus ran second-last at
Williamstown.
Ray Wilson, who was associated with
the Epsom victory of Spearflash, dis-
played superb judgment in his handling
of Black Mac on the, seaside course.
Avoiding any risk of being pocketed, he
took the favorite to the outside at the
home bend and literally romped home,
with Rebel Queen and Steel Spear (both
of whom finished strongly) in the minor
places.
Backers went bald-headed for Son of
Aurous in the Juvenile Handicap, but
the Son o’ Mine colt got embedded in
the ruck and never was a possibility.
Carloca, a half-brother to Riddle, led
practically all the way ; however, he had
only a neck to spare from Pageant, while
Miss Devlin just pipped Winoobra for
third money. Carloca was a 6-to-l
chance ; twice those odds could be had
about the minor place-getters. Miss
Devlin is out of Lineage, an Oaks win-
ner. She shaped like a stayer.
Belle Silhouette, well-backed for the
Gellibrand Handicap, would have won
from end to end if Ogwell hadn’t staged
a phenomenal run over the last couple
of furlongs to beat her by a head. Hos-
tile came home nearly as brilliantly as
Ogwell to be half a neck farther away
in third position. Kanuri, the prime
choice of punters, was a big disappoint-
ment.
Bindweed, the mare off whom C. J.
Boyd was killed in a hurdle race at Caul-
field, has produced a fine galloper in
Spinifex. This gelding did bookmakers
a good turn by clearing out from his
Beach Welter rivals and romping home
in advance of Bullala and Empiric. Fol-
lowers of Bill Tindall took 2 to 1 about
Sculpin, whose stable-companion, Quasi-
modo, had been scratched on the course.
Sculpin was in hopeless difficulties from
the word “Go!” Spinifex, carrying the
colors in which Defence appropriated an
Australian Cup, was a 12-to-l chance.
* * * *
Sam Whitbread, an excellent jockey in
his day, gave a 15-year-old apprentice, J.
Sullivan, an opportunity when he let
Sullivan ride Irish Morn in the Moore-
held Handicap on Saturday. Sullivan
handled his mount with rare judgment;
he trailed the pacemaker, Electron, most
of the way, and timed his run to a
nicety, with the result that Irish Morn
beat Electron by half a length. Grand
Warbler was a fair third.
In most of his races Irish Morn lugs
out badly, particularly on the turns. Sul-
livan, who rides the gelding on the track,
overcame this propensity, and a good
stake was landed on Irish Morn at tens.
Monash River’s run suggests that he is
just a plodder.
In 1925 Peter Tait, a Queensland pas-
toralist, won the Newmarket with
Valiard, trained by the late Frank Mars-
den and ridden by his nephew Reg, who
is now overseas. His subsequent pur-
chases of horseflesh were not fortunate,
but he seems to have a good colt in
Cathartes, who, in a bulldog finish, won
the juvenile from Let Slip and Robin
Hood. A handsome son of The Buz-
zard, Cathartes finished gamely under the
whip after coming round the turn like
an old-stager. He went out at sevens.
Suburban form at this time of the year
is not rated highly, but Cathartes looks
a likely customer. The favorite,
Careerbra, was out in front from barrier-
rise, but “walked” the last furlong.
S. Clark, a Moss Vale cattle-dealer,
gave 325 guineas for Buonarroti at
auction last year. It looked a good sale
for the other party, for the stocky son
of High Art had lost all form. His new
owner got a lot of his money back in
stud fees; the horse served about 60
mares. Returned to training, Buonar-
roti began galloping like a young ’un
again, and with only 7st. 81b. to carry on
Saturday he made hacks of his opponents
—Linklet and Jutland were the nearest —
in the Rockdale Mile. He was backed
from twos to 6 to 4. So Clark is now
showing a good profit. He had a suc-
cessful run with Entail on the old pony
tracks.
In other days it was a regular thing
for two-year-olds to tackle older gal-
lopers at this time of the year, but some
surprise was expressed when Micawber
and Brazandt sported silk in divisions
of the Flying Welter. The former, a
good winner at Randwick, gave an in-
glorious display in the first division, beat-
ing two home ; Heroic Faith (9 to 4),
who is to go to Brisbane to run in the
Doom ben Newmarket next month, scored
easily from Prince Peter and Bim Boy.
Old Legislator, who likes Moorefield,
was fourth.
Brazandt did much better in the
second division, although he missed a
place. McCarten let him go to the front,
but Brazandt tired in the last furlong
and carried out Strathisla, who in turn
was squeezed by Kaylah when she came
fast on the outside. Kaylah won ; a pro-
test was quickly dismissed. Hwaiking
cut out Brazandt for third money in the
last couple of strides.
At her previous start at Rosehill
Kaylah had been friendless at 20 to 1.
She finished last. On Saturday her best
price in the paddock was 3 to 1. No
doubt Darby Munro’s appearance in the
saddle contributed to the demand for the
mare. However, such an improvement in
the space of a week should have been in-
vestigated ; that should be the procedure
in all cases of the kind.
Black Mist (14 to 1) and Bela (7 to 1),
winners of Kogarah Stakes divisions, are
useful gallopers. Black Mist was at a
good price in view of a success in fair
company at Rosebery on the Wednesday,
but many thought that his 9st. 51b. was
too much of a handicap. Mrs. Clayton
owns Bela, and also won the hurdle race
with Tredonner, who started at 20 to 1.
None of the bookmakers could have lost
on the day, but the usual complaint
burst 1 rom them —“Very little money
about.” 3
* * * *
The claptrap about the disastrous effect
s.p. betting is having on country sport,
including racing, gets a knock on the
head every time a country race club holds
a meeting offering attractive prize-money
Last week Tamworth (N.S.W.) Club did
so, and attendances were records. The
club had a £5OO cup and other respec-
table offerings, and half a dozen good
Sydney horses went north to give the
locals and a Queenslander or two a run
for it.
On the day the Tamworth Cup was
run Gosford (near Sydney) had a meet-
ing at which £175 was split up among
runners in six races. There was an-
other race on the programme, but' every
nominator was scratched. Only one of
the nominated went to the course, but
the walk-over stake, £7 10s. (half the
prize-money), was naturally no compen-
sation for losing the neddy’s maiden cer-
tificate.
Far richer prize-money is now avail-
able for dogs to win around Sydney ;
one night not long ago the tykes split
up £l5OO. As a result there are now in
the Sydney metropolitan area 30,000 grey-
hounds, which, among other things, chew
31b. of steak each a day. Their racing
is freely broadcast by three different sta-
tions, with starting prices given at the
time, but there is no yelp about the broad-
casting or s.p. affecting their attendances.
A reason for their success, apart from the
good prize-money ensuring plenty of
starters and keen racing, is that it costs
comparatively little to see them. If
N.S.W. horse race clubs can’t increase
their prize-money and reduce their
charges, what is happening to some of
them now will go on, only more so —-
s.p. or no s.p.
Sydney horses took a good slice out of
the Tamworth prize-money. That shapely
model of consistency Mohican won the
Cup at the surprisingly good price of
sixes, outcome of an overnight plunge
on another of the Sydney contingent,
Buzalong (third), and the backing of Has-
tate. Mohican is now trained by C. A.
Russell, who knows every blade of grass
on Northern N. S. Wales tracks person-
ally ; he ran a useful string around Graf-
ton and Lismore for years. Black
Laughter (8 to 1) collected the main stake
on Tamworth’s second day for Sydney,
heavily-backed Verberry missing a place.
Shackleton was another Sydney winner,
gathering in the opening six-furlong
sprint.
* * * *
Bob Punter : Like the popular idea
that whenever a horse fails in a race he’s
dead, the pretty general belief that cur-
rent Sydney jockeyship is in a decline
seems to me to be utter piffle. In recent
weeks the riding generally has been capi-
tal, with a number of really topnotch
performances. The 15-year-old Pap-
worth rode two classy races on Curator
at Randwick: the first time he ditched
me for my money, but the second time I
was on him. He ditched me again at
Rosehill, but his riding of Gold Spark
was pretty to look at. Same day at
Rosehill McCarten rode my pick.
Bachelor King, brilliantly. He didn’t win
—another neddy was too good—but
McCarten remains a dandy handler of a
youngster; he gets ’em out beautifully.
1 wo other taking rides were Weiss’s on
Babili over the last furlong at Randwick
"he looked like a butterfly on top and
Babili must have thought that was all
that was up—and Hickey’s on Hastate at
the same address a few days later. As
an example of a horse being fairly lifted
along to make a winning run Darby
Munro’s performance on Barak at Rose-
hill was one to be long remembered by
ail who saw it —blast it!
(Continued on next page.)
Footbrawf
About 95,000 Victorians turned out
for Saturday’s six League games. Thirty
thousand of them were at the M.C.G-,
where Collingwood, the 1936 premiers,
went down before Melbourne, now the
only unbeaten V.F.L. team. Outpacing
Collingwood, Melbourne gained a third-
quarter lead and held it, to win by 13-23
to 11-10. Richmond, 17-13, reproduced
its previous week’s form against Essen-
don, 8-15, and takes third position on the
premiership ladder. Geelong, 21-23,
easily accounted for Hawthorn, 7-11.
Carlton’s surprise win over St. Kilda, by
the narrow margin of 13-16 to 12-19,
leaves Geelong and St. K. in fourth place.
Footscray, 18-23, was too hot for North
Melbourne, 14-4, while Fitzroy, 11-16,
kept South Melbourne, 7-18, at the bot-
tom of the points list. Carlton, Essen-
don, Footscray, Fitzroy and North Mel-
bourne share the mid-ladder position;
Hawthorn is just ahead of South.
* * $ ¥
St. George remains on top of the Syd-
ney Rugby Union table, though on Satur-
day it had a close call against East. The
Eastern backs ran rings round Saints the
first half to lead 13-8 at lemons. East
went further ahead, 16-8, before weak
tackling by the forwards and the all-
round superiority of Saints’ pack brought
St. George two more tries ; 16 all. Drum-
moyne, the runners-up, went down to
Uni., 19-5. ’Varsity and West —North
was West’s victim, 37-13 ; Barnes scored
22 points—are now together second, two
points behind St. George. Randwick, the
team reorganised, trounced Gordon 35-12
(eight tries to one), and if it can repeat
that showing should make the final four.
But Manly is still.wallowing. It did beat
Parramatta, 14-8, but it was a chancy
sort of victory—one try apiece.
A Combined Western team ran away
from Newcastle, 27-14 (six tries to three).
The Coal City’s forwards scarcely gave
their backs a glimpse of the ball.
* ¥ ¥ ¥
“Mak”: Victoria’s Rugby Union
selectors have their team in training for
the June 12 Springbok game. The pack
will be conceding considerable pound-
age, and the selectors seem to have given
Evan Jessep, coach for the forwards,
more than a fair share of “shiners.” The
backs look like the best attacking com-
bination Vic. has had for years, but they
won’t be very effective unless half-back
Cuming is served with more ball than
usually comes from forwards who prefer
roving to packing. Skipper Hammon,
Auckland’s (M.L.) winger in 1934, and
one of the Vic. reps, with the Wallabies
who flopped in Maoriland last year, is
in great form at five-eighth, and, out-
side him, Carpenter, from Westralia, is
just the lad to make good use of every
opening. Dick, the Navy man, can be
regarded as more than a reliable link for
wingers Dorr, the other Vic. back in
the 1936 Wallabies, and West. Bick,
Footscray’s cool and experienced player,
is the full-back. Dave Cowper, a 1933
Wallaby star in S. Africa, is schooling
the rearguard.
{Continued on next page,)
FOR MOONEE VALLEY.
Headwind High weight: Quasi-
modo ; next, Peace Patrol.
Mt. Alexander Handicap: Irving ;
next, Alaric.
Keilor Handicap: Ogwell; next,
Finch.
FOR ROSEHILL.
Flying Welter: Punjab; next,
Bull Ant or Rosmead.
Rosehill Handicap: Verberry:
next, Friar’s Switch.


I n C! UADI I D
LUSMUdILij
GIVES A NEW MEANING
to {ycxMi&nuf.
/
SB
m
•M*
its::
Jwo Thu)
OLDSMOBILES
Both the 1937 Oldsmobile “Six” and Oldsmobile “Eight” set a new standard for all-round
economical motoring. Petrol- and oil-consumption have been reduced by lowered engine-speeds.
And with Oldsmobile there is the economy of freedom from repairs—for years.
The All-Steel “Turret Top” Bodies by Holden will not develop rattles or squeaks. “Armourplate ”
Safety Glass is permanently free from cracks or discoloration. Oldsmobile’s rugged construction —
its new I-beam X-type frame giving 100% greater torsional strength—ensures long life.
Independent Front-Wheel Springing, Dual Ride-Stabilizers, Counterbalanced Crankshaft with
Vibration Dampener, Tri-Cushion Engine-Suspension these are features which eliminate
vibration and prevent road-shocks being transmitted to the car itself or to the body, thereby
lengthening its life and ensuring freedom from repairs.
These, together with the remarkably low price of Oldsmobile, its low r depreciation and therefore
higher resale-value, make it the soundest, most economical “buy” today.
CONSULT YOUR LOCAL
AUTHORISED OLDSMOBILE DEALER.
Sold and Serviced by Oldsmobile Dealers all over A ustralia
OLDSMOBILE
FEATURES:
FOR SAFETY
All-Steel “Turret Top” Bodies.
“Armourplate” Safety Glass in
windscreen and side windows.
Independent Front-Wheel
Springing (Knee Action).
Ride-Stabilizers front and rear.
Triple-Sealed Super-Hydraulic
Brakes.
Independent Dash-Mounted
Hand-Brake.
All-Silent Synchro-Mesh Gears.
Lower Centre of Gravity.
FOR DRIVING EASE
New Cross-Centre-Control
Steering.
Multi-Adjustable Driving Seat.
Special Clear-Vision Instrument
Panel.
Foot-Control for dipping the
headlights.
A new Clutch Operation, making
faulty clutching impossible.
FOR RIDING COMFORT
2 g "-lower Floors, giving more
head-room.
New Seating Positions, giving
more leg-room.
Relax-o-Form Cushioning.
Absolute Silence, made possible
by insulation against noise.
Warmth in the winter, coolness
in the summer, made possible
by the “Turret Top” and by
special insulation.
No-draught Ventilation for fresh
air without draughts.
Exceptionally large locking
Luggage-Compartment.
PLUS every possible comfort
feature such as Assist Cords,
Padded Arm-Rests, Dome-
Lights, etc.
These are but a few of Oldsmobile’s
outstanding features for 1937. See
these great cars. Sit behind the
wheel and drive, and know how good
a car can really be at so low a price.
And ask about the confidential
G.M.A.C. Convenient-Payment Plan,
which makes it easy for you to own
an Oldsmobile “The Car that gives
you Everything.”
GENERAL MOTORS HOLDEN'S LTD.
(Incorporated in Victoria)
1937 bsdmiaA. bo OLDSMOBILE
‘AIR-CHIEF’ Car Radio
The addition of a 1937 "Air-Chief”
two-unit car-radio with its faithful
reproduction and rich tones will
bring you many pleasant hours.
Especially designed for Oldsmobile,
it has controls which match the
fittings on the instrument panel ;
8-in. dynamic speaker separate
from the set.
,
Under Tne Wnip
Picking ’Em A Postscript.
5 r 1 ■ -in
On the score of having picked Capris
(first, 33 to 1) for the Epsom and ui g
Crusader (first, 14 to 1) foi the
politan, this Bulletin writer trie
hand at giving more advice to pu
in a series of articles published a
end of 1936. Following up is ‘
iheories, he chose Silver Rose ( »
and unlucky, 20 to 1) for the Doncaster
and Mestoravon (first, 5 to 1) "
Sydney Cup, with El Senorita s •
The Sydney Cup distance pro J
too far for El Senorita, but s e
in a handicap at Randwick, as -
Silver Rose.
A few extracts from the articles may
now be reprinted to show that the advice
to punters wasn t exactly putrid.
’Tt seems tempting fate to give Young
Crusader a summer campaign.... Leave
him well alone. Young Crusader star e
five times in the summer an ®ar y
autumn, and except on one occasion —
and then he didn’t get a place—ran hor-
ribly. He was then retired for a much-
needed spell.
“Mares were conspicuously successful
in 1902, the year of the Great Drought,
which lasted into 1903. Over large parts
of Australia, 1936 was a drought year,
Not improbably this had something to
do w j t h the successes of Capris, Amalia,
Alinura and Siren. Possibly mares will
go on Winning big races, as they did in
m m 3 and afterwards » Well)
£ ereza (Standish and Cropper Plate),
Silver Rose (Challenge Stakes), Sarcherie
(Doncaster), El Senorita, Evening Mist,
Studio and Marion Melton have done
well. Moreover, they have been models
Q f consistency. This year El Senorita,
Marion Melton, Cereza, Silver Rose and
Studio haye
won 16 races among them.
Mares were actually first, second and
t Mrd in the Doncaster. And one of the
best 0 f h er seXj Capris, did no more
racing after the A.J.C. spring meeting,
while Siren was an absentee in the
autumn. Valicare’s daughter and Sal
Volatile will have to be reckoned with
j ater on jf they s t and U p to training,
“Donaster was one of the disappoint-
ments j n the. spring. Perhaps he reserves
best gfj orts f or au tumn or winter;
there are borses like that. Donaster is
dec j dec jjy a horse t hat should be borne
. . w .. u . f .
j” mind. Wit in the last fortnight,
Donaster has won the Adelaide Cup (at
8 to 1) and the Coronation Cup (at 5 to
bringing his Adelaide record for two
seasons to five starts, five wins,
All the same the best advice that could
be given to punters is Don’t. The second-
best, if they feel that they must, is never
to wager more than they can afford to
lose.
“Sturt”: Port Adelaide Racing Club
has set an example, locally at any rate,
by presenting £75 and £25 to the trainers
who had during the year prepared most
winners on the flat and over jumps.
Chairman Dr. Benson called trainers
“the backbone of racing” ; and added a
strong suggestion that they ought to
have a share of the winnings of appren-
tices trained by them.
* ❖ * *
“Thormanby”: Cabled accounts of the
Derby possibilities are. so sketchy that
it is difficult to pick on a possible win-
ner at this distance. After the Two
Thousand, the public were rushing the
French colt Le Ksar. At time of writing
an American youngster, Perifox, tops the
betting list at 9 to 2, having displaced
Cash Book, winner of the mile and
a quarter Newmarket Handicap, con-
sidered by the shrewdies a good line for
Epsom. Le Ksar is third choice, and
after these prices run from tens upward.
This presages a win by an outsider,
but even here there is nothing astonish-
ing in sight. The race is run on June 2,
and if the American scores he will be
the third of Uncle Sam’s nominations
to do so. The others were Iroquois, with
Fred Archer up, and Durbar 11.
M.Q. and Rafferfy
Tod Morgan has been a boxer for 16
years, but he is still too good for any
ten-stoner in these parts. At the Leich-
hardt reopening on Wednesday, he out-
pointed Herb Bishop, whose weight was
given as lOst. 31b., though he looked
almost a stone heavier than Morgan (9st.
13|lb. The veteran rocked his 10-years-
younger foe with a right to the chin in
the 12th, and went on to win a decision
that about 5000 spectators unanimously
endorsed.
* sk * vr*
Micky Miller’s latest achievement in
Melbourne was to stop Gill, of New-
castle, in five rounds. Miller looks much
the likeliest Australian to win a world
championship. Regular meals and fight-
ing have brought him on tremendously,
and featherweight class in the Northern
Hemisphere seems only middling. Any-
way, the title is held by the ageing Sarron,
who was no wonder when in Australia.
Footbrawl
“Footscray”: The St. Kilda-Melbourne
match in the V.F.L. competition was so
willing that players were carried off on
( Continued on next page.)


w
G°
CP
&
A*
9.*-
G'P i
fS>
"silver edce"
BRAKE LINING
I
BRAKE TROUBLES
The majority of brake troubles are due either to poor brake
lining or mal-adjustment.
Unless your brakes are adjusted so that the work is distributed equally
on all wheels then the wear is certain to be rapid and the braking poor.
If your brake material is poor in quality then all the effort and
expense of careful adjustment is wasted, for unless the lining
is consistent throughout then the wear cannot be uniform
and the brakes are soon out of correct adjustment.
Use only “RAYBESTOS” BRAKE LINING—
the quality lining.
BAYBESTOS-BEEACO, LTD.,
LONDON, ENG.
Factory Rep.: JOHN ARNOLD,
G.P.O. Box 71, Melbourne, Vic.
fg
hf
Personal and Missing Friends.
WILL ADELAIDE BLANCH BRADLEY (nee
Wilkins) communicate with the undersigned
at once?
BUTLER, McINTYRE AND BUTLER,
Solicitors,
22 Murray Street, Hobart.
WILFRED GEORGE KEMP, son of Arthur
Kemp, of Horsham, Victoria, or anyone know-
ing his whereabouts, will hear something to his
advantage by communicating with POWER &
BENNETT, Solicitors, Horsham, Victoria.
KNAPE. —lf the relatives of ELIZABETH
KNAPE (widow of Richard James Knape), for-
merly of Bendigo and Williamstown, will com-
municate with THE EQUITY TRUSTEES
COMPANY, 472 Bourke Strdet, Melbourne,
they may hear something to their advantage.
“The Bulletin” welcomes sugges-
tions for humorous drawings. Only
original jokes will be considered.
A minimum payment of 7s. 6d. each
on acceptance.
stretchers. The Melbourne press, as
usual, calls for drastic action. That will
never be done until the referee is given
power to send offenders off the field
forthwith instead of their remaining on
to provoke reprisals from the other side.
* * * *
“Hooker”: After much consideration
the Australian jersey for the matches
against the Springboks will be the N. S.
YVales light-blue, but with an Australian
badge in green and gold instead of the
waratah, the colors worn in South Africa
by the second lot of Wallabies. It really
doesn't matter much what color is
chosen to get licked in, for that is what
is going to happen if the selectors show
the same hesitation and inefficiency in
choosing the Australian team as they
did in picking that of N. S. Wales
against Queensland. Imitation League
rules in club and inter-State matches are
another source of weakness. The lesson
the Maoris taught a couple of seasons
ago, when the visitors compelled the
playing of real Rugby, has evidently been
forgotten.
* * : i ;
“Stand Off": It is good to hear that all
the. Australian selectors will go to Mel-
bourne to see the Victoria-Springboks
game, and it is to be hoped they will have
the courage of their convictions and give
some of the Cabbage Gardeners a chance
in the big stuff. Two of the best for-
wards Australia has fielded for some
years were Victorians. Some of the
selectors will also watch the country
match at Orange.
The Australian XV for the first Test
on June 26 in Sydney will be picked
after the ’Bok match with N.S.W. on
June 19. The All-Australia side to play
the ’Boks in Brisbane will be chosen after
the first Test, and the team for the second
Test in Sydney on July 17 is to be named
in Brisbane after the Queensland game
against the visitors. When in Melbourne
the Australian selectors will appoint a
coach for the Australian teams.
“Bowen Park”: Queensland, which
some years ago started the idea of re-
serving seats for big football and cricket
matches which the other States adopted
last season, has reserved half the seats in
the main stand at the Exhibition for the
Springbok games. Reservation will cost
3s. 6d. extra. A new departure is that
members of the Agricultural Society,
which owns the ground, will pay the reser-
vation price if they wish to have special
seats. They have free admission, of
course.
“Old Q.”: A. D. (“Doug”) Graham,
appointed an acting puisne Judge in
Queensland, is one of the many N.S.W.
and Queensland wigs who have distin-
guished themselves in Rugby Union foot-
ball. A representative player while at
Brisbane Grammar, he figured with suc-
cess for the State team in the early
'nineties as a forward. He was also a
first-rate all-round cricketer until the
sacra fames of work lured him from
better things.
“Hawick”: Talking of seven-a-side
Rugby (B. 19/5/’37), the annual tourney
has been completed at Twickenham
before 30,000 people. It was won by
the London Scottish, 19-3. Though the
seven-a-side game originated in Scotland,
this is the first time that L.S. has won
since the tourney began 13 years ago.
* % %
“Rus”: N.S.W. League has cut down
its Country Week to games between sides
chosen from the combined country
groups and two metropolitan teams. The
play takes place in Sydney on May 29,
and 30 countrymen are being brought
to Sydney. They represent the South-
Western Leagues and those in the north
and north-west.
“Gate”: There is keen competition for
the two managers’ jobs for the Australian
Rugby League team to visit England this
year. Queensland will probably pick
Harry Sunderland ; nominations for the
N.S.W. man close on May 31. The
N.S.W. selectors for the touring team are
Gray and Webb. Two Queenslanders
are to be chosen, with Gilbert as arbi-
trator. Webb managed the 1933-34 Kan-
garoos in England with Sunderland.
Gray toured with the 1921-22 side as a
forward.
* * * *
“Tackier” : The English Rugby League
is to have a shot at conquering America.
According to the cable, two English
teams are to visit the States to play exhi-
bitions. Rugby Union has a small fol-
lowing in some of the Eastern States and
in California, while Soccer is also played
in the Middle West to some extent. The
country is so obsessed, however, with its
own murderous game that it is chary of
paying real money to see any other.
Nineteenth Hole
“Sandy Gallop”: Queensland’s golf
championships began in Brisbane with
the amateur foursomes, which were taken
by the Victorian pair, Mick Ryan and
Ivo Whitton. Their card of 146 was a
record for the event, and two strokes
better than that of the runners-up,
Queenslanders Gill and Morrow 7 .
The big event of the meeting, the
Open, was taken for the third time in
succession by Norman von Nida. He
returned a card of 284 (69, 75, 70, 70),
a record for the championship and 10
better than runner-up W. Holder, of the
Lakes Club (N.S.W.). A. H. Colledge,
a 21-year-old local amateur, was third
with a score of 296. The 16 amateurs
who qualified for the lilywhite title event
included Whitton and Ryan, with D. vort
Nida, brother of the open champion.
“Yarra Yarra”: Victoria's first profes-
sional foursomes championship was won
at Riversdale by Naismith and Billings.
The pair tied with Smith and Boorer at
the end of 36 holes, with 149 each. A
play-off over nine holes decided the
matter, N. and B. getting home by a
stroke. An interesting item of the play
was the disqualification of Wood and
Spence. At the ninth Spence played a
shot which stuck between the pin and the
edge of the hole. A third party pulled
"Is there a sailor in the audience?"
file pin out and the ball came out also
and rolled some feet away. The players
forgot to tap the ball back into the hole
and were disqualified for failing to hole
out.
* # *
“Sandringham”: A notable feat was
put up in Melbourne when T. G. Evans,
partnering Mrs. Sutherland, won the
Commonwealth club mixed foursome.
Evans, who has won a lot of tournament
events, has only one arm and excels in
putting. His handicap at present is 20,
but is likely to be cut again.
* * * *
“Hoylake”: The South African ama-
teur golf team now in England intends
to make a good job of the tour before
going home. The side will play in Eng-
lish tourneys until the Open in July, and
will then Streak for the U.S.A., where it
will play in the American amateur cham-
pionship at Oregon. If the local golf
authorities hdve any gumption they
should have a try to get the tourists to
return to South Africa through M.L. and
this country.
* * * *
“Prince’s”: The dropping-out of the
titleholder, Hector Thomson, robbed the
British amateur championship at Sand-
wich of much of its interest. Thomson,
who defeated Ferrier in the final last
year, is a highly-strung player, and says
he doesn’t feel up to the strain.
* * * *
“Divot Digger”: He-golfers belonging
tc clubs in what is known as the Sydney
sub-district union cannot play in events
promoted by clubs affiliated with the
N.S.W. Golf Council. At the same time
the clubs may not affiliate with the coun-
cil, so the unfortunates are like the Peri
at the gates of Paradise —able to peep
in but not to enter. Worse than all is
the fact that wives may compete in the
events closed to their lords. The reason
for the ban is that members of these
clubs play on courses which do not con-
form to the national system of par han-
dicapping ; affiliation is refused because
there is no way of fixing the handicaps
of players. With the women it is dif-
ferent. The system of handicapping used
by them is based on the par or scratch
score of each individual course, and is
not on an all-Australia basis.
•!' *!*
“Hoylake”: Freak golf is reviving in
Britain. The latest is an undertaking by
a leading amateur to play through Lon-
don streets, from Piccadilly to the Bank.
He has been laid £5O he will not do his
“round” under 50, and no windows may
be broken or pedestrians outed. Pro-
vided the right time is picked, the player
should win. A hearty loft or two over
some of the houses in between into the
next street would help him a lot if it
came off. Years ago a player won a
wager playing from Piccadilly Circus
through the Strand, Fleet-street and Lud-
gate Hill to the Royal Exchange. Un-
fortunately, the score was not preserved.
Something of the same sort ought to be
tried in Sydney or Melbourne—in any
principal street after six o’clock.
Racquet and Bawl
“Cut Shot”: In the European zone
eight teams are left in the third round
of the Davis Cup competition: Italy,
Sweden, Germany, Belgium, South
Africa, the Yugos. the Czechs and
France. They meet in that order, and the
winners should be Italy, Germany, the
Yugos and a toss-up between France and
the Czechs.
*** N *
“Achtung”: The doctors have ordered
German champion Von Cramm to come
out of the French tennis championships--
he holds the singles title —and say he must
save himself for the Davis Cup, it being
recognised that without him at his best
Germany’s pretzel is dough. It is to be
hoped the trouble will have passed before
the time comes for his Australian trip.
# # * *
“Top Spin”: Since Von Cramm and
his partner or partners in the German
tennis team —Henkel is now considered
certain to be one —come to Australia by
way of Japan, their first Australian show-
ing will be at Brisbane, the match begin-
ning, it is hoped, on December 9. They
would then be playing in Sydney on
December 16, 17 and 18, going on to
Melbourne in due course. Much will
depend on the schedule of the Japanese
steamers.
* * *
“Centre Court”: England got a horrid
whopping in the annual match with
France, going down by 10 matches to
five. The Englishmen did badly in the
singles, but Hare and Wilde, who are
spoken of as the English Davis Cup pair,
won two doubles matches, beating
Borotra and Bernard. Austin did not
play.
* * * *
“Kooyong”: Not since the days of the
late Daphne Akhurst has this country
seen a woman tennis-player of the
calibre of Nancy Wynne. A newcomer
to the big end of the game, she has
just finished the most successful season
ever enjoyed by an Australian woman
player, having won the Australian singles
championship and that of every State,
save Victoria —for that title she was
beaten by Mrs. Westacott. In doubles
she is almost as formidable, especially
when Thelma Coyne, of N.S.W., is
her partner. The pair have taken
the Australian title for the last two years,
and it is doubtful whether any two
women in Europe or the States will
prove superior when they go overseas
next year.
* * * *
“Milton”: Queensland has lost to
Sydney an outstanding tennis champion
in Mrs. Molesworth, nowadays a little
past her best as a tennis-player. The
lady won the Australian championship
in 1922 and 1923 and the Australian
doubles title with Mrs. Wfestacott in
1930 and 1933. She has also won every
State championship save that of West-
ralia.
* * * *
“Centre Court”: British tennis tipsters
are discussing the advent of Bromwich
at Wimbledon. All sorts of mad conjec-
tures are finding their way into print.
Manchester “Guardian,” for instance,
says that his double-handed strokes com-
pel his opponents to make lightning ad-
justments, so that, before the opposition
player can decide whether Bromwich is
a right- or left-hander, the match is usually
over. All the same, one could wish
Bromwich was a champion in the ortho-
dox style. For many years we have had
freak tennis-players using both hands,
either together or separately, and, though
many of them have done well, they have
never entered the supreme championship
class.
Miscellaneous
“Bias”: After much manoeuvring a
British bowling team has consented to
visit us, and will play in all the States.
The Britons are due to arrive in Sydney
on January 7, and between then and the
start of the Australian tournament will
pay a visit to Brisbane.
“Susie Swattit”: The Anglo-Scottish
women’s hockey team sailed for Australia
last week, and will arrive towards the


m
m
mm
Correct Power Means Economy
Select the V-8 Engine to Suit Your Job
Ford now offers the choice of 2 V-8 truck
engines, providing the logical power for
any job. The engine designed for heavy
haulage 3-ton trucks develops 170 ft. lbs.
engine torque; 1-ton, 30-cwt. and 2-ton
models have a power unit which develops
152 ft. lbs. engine torque. This range of
truck power combined with the finest truck
features enables you to select a V-8 unit
"made-to-order" for your job. See your
Ford dealer and arrange for an "on-the-job"
test with your own loads over your own
routes. Easy purchase terms arranged.
The 1937
V-8 TRUCK FEATURES
FULL TORQUE TUBE DRIVE AND RADIUS
RODS • BRAKING AREA OF 470£ SQ. INS.
• 41 BALL AND ROLLER BEARINGS •
NEEDLE ROLLER BEARINGS IN UNIVERSAL
JOINTS • FULL FLOATING REAR AXLE
WITH STRADDLE MOUNTED PINION AND
4 DIFFERENTIAL GEARS • GREATER
COOLING EFFICIENCY • CENTRIFORCE
TRUCK CLUTCH • HEAVY-DUTY TRANS-
MISSION • IMPROVED OIL PATH AIR
CLEANER • IMPROVED DISTRIBUTOR •
DUAL DOWN DRAUGHT CARBURETTOR.
FORD V 8 TRUCKS
BUY FROM YOPR LOCAL FORD DEALER
FORD MOTOR COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD. (INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA! F17824C
Be well advised on Your
Shooting Problems by an
Acknowledged Expert!
LIONEL BIBBY, famous Rifle and Revolver
Shot and recognised authority on Firearms
and Ballistics, is attached to Mick Simmons’
Shooting Department staff. Write him for
his expert advice on any matter pertaining
to firearms and shooting.
MICK SIMMONS’
Unrivalled Range of Popular
SPORTING
RIFLES
gh
S T o. I—the MAINE RIFLE, 22-cal.,
>olt action, v-back sight; for short,
ong, or long rifle cartridges. Hound
larrel, 3Sin. long, bored and rifled with
he same care as tlie military weapon,
mil guaranteed accurate; weight, about
9l/
•rice &\.] m
THE MAINE DE LUXE MODEL,
24in. barrel.
35/
(Postage 2/-; Other States, 3/6.)
<o. 31—BROWNING AUTOMATIC
lIFLE, MODEL 21—22 short or long-
'ifle; each rifle takes one size cartridge
inly; walnut stock, pistol grip, 29-Jin.
barrel; length, .‘iflin.; bead front and
screw rear sight; safety holt; barrel
may be dismounted by . unscrewing
{■ turn; weight, 4Jlb. 22 short or 22
long rifle. _ . „
Price £4/12/0
(Carriage Paid.)
No. 32—BROWNING “TROMBONE”
HAMMERLESS REPEATING RIFLE
—°2in. round steel barrel; handies
22 short, long, or long-rifle cart-
ridges; screw rear and open front
sights; length overall, flflin.;
£s/2/6
(Carriage Paid.)
No. 46—COOEY “MOHAWK”—
.22-cal., single shot, for short,
long, or long-rifle cartridges.
Barrel, 27in. Walnut stock,
pistol grip. Steel butt plate, elevating rear
sight and silver bead front sight. Length
overall, 432 in. Weight, 61b. . _ .
Price 4U/-
(Postage, 2/-; Other States, 3/6.)
No. 47—COOEY REPEATER—.22-cal., bolt
action, holds 10 long or long-rifle or 12
short cartridges. Double safety, beautifully
finished walnut stock, pistol grip and steel
butt plate. Adjustable rear sight and bead
front sight. Length overall, 41in, Barrel,
24in. Weight, 431 b. 0 ,-
Price /Z/O
(Carriage Paid.)
High-Class
SHOT GUNS
No. 3 —HOEEIS’ “THE REEIABEE”
D.8.8.E. GUN—I2O., top lever, bar action,
32in. steel barrels, both cboke, rebounding
locks, crossbolt, snap fore-end, half-pistol
grip, walnut stock. /t i- /
Price £l5/15/-
No. gun, of lighter _ o/I H is?
build. Price dCIZ/ 1 //O
(Carriage Paid.)
No. 9—CASHMORE D. 8.8.1,. GUN- 120..
solid bar action, .‘l2in. steel barrels, left
choke, extension rib, crossbolt. D. and E.
fore-end pistol-grip, walnut stock; weight,
about 71b. / i n /
Price £l4/10/-
(Carriage Paid.)
No. 14—BROWNING D.8.8.L. HAMMER-
LESS GUN —120., 30in. steel barrels, both
choke, top lever crossbolt, walnut stock,
pistol grip, nitro proof; weight, about
Price £lO/10/-
(Carriage Paid.)
Our comprehensive new 1937 Shooting Cata-
logue will be off the printing presses in a
day or two. Free and post free!
MICK SIMMONS
LTD.,
lIAV.MARKET. SYDNEY, & All Branches.
end of June. The team plays in Mel-
bourne and Sydney, and then goes on m
Brisbane, where the All-Australia tourna-
ment begins on July 20. Jhere are 14
players, including captain Kathleen
Ward, vice-captain K. Blaxland and
player-manager I. M. Bolt.
* * * *
“Blade Sight”: On and after July 1
riflemen in the Commonwealth will use
uniform targets. Hitherto each State has
used its own dimensions, and this ren-
dered comparison of scores futile. Entries
for the anniversary shoot next year are
coming in already. There will be plenty
of room for all, for there will be 7106
individual prizes, to say nothing of those
for teams.
* * * *
“Blade”: The Australian Rowing
Council, at the annual meet in Adelaide,
decided that the rowing races for the
Empire Games next year be held over a
mile and a quarter on the Nepean. The
Ma State rowing heads will boss the
show, and E. E. Keary, the N.S.W. selec-
tor, is to pick the Australian team. He is
also to nominate a coach.
X X x x
“Blade”: The Empire Games rowing
events will necessitate a change in the
dates for the N.S.W. title-races, which,
usually take place in February at the
same time as the Empire events are to
be held on the Nepean. The decision of
the authorities that the four-oared crew
will not be chosen until after Henley-on-
Yarra in November means that those
anxious for selection will have to show
at Henley.
* * * *
“Bung”: Anticipating a visit from a
British team next year, Australian ice-
hockey players are adopting international
rules. This is in striking contrast to the
attitude of the Australian Rugby Union
heads, who, though their men will have
to play the Springboks under inter-
national Rugby rules, persist in playing
their inter-State and club matches under
bung rules of their own making.
* * * *
“Croix”: Queensland lacrosseurs are
trying to get enough into the sock to
hold the All-Australia lacrosse tourney
in Brisbane in 1939. If the State misses
there will not be another chance for
nine years. One means of raising the
brass is a visit from another State’s side,
and Victoria is already half committed
to make the. trip in July.
X X * *
“Sinker”: Among the million sugges-
tions for 150th anniversary attractions
is a fishing competition, whoppers only.
N.S.W. Minister Dunningham has been
tackled by supporters of the idea,
and has promised to see what can
be done in the way of helping with
some cash. All hands and the cook have
been called in to show that such a tour-
ney will prove of inestimable benefit to
the tourist trade, but seem to have over-
looked one thing. Australia will never
attract a 100 p.c. horde of overseas tour-
ists while our ghastly liquor legislation
remains as at present. Fisherfolk are a
thirsty lot, and the stuff they prefer to
cool the burning pangs is not water. Any-
way, who could adequately describe the
fight with the One That Got Away on
lemonade?
* * * *
“Tenth Slip”: The N.S.W.C.A. has re-
vealed that the cricket contribution to
the anniversary spree next year will be a
match between two Australian teams led
by Bradman and McCabe respectively.
These games are rarely a success from
a cricket or financial point of view,
mainly because the folk responsible for
the selection usually collect elevens
largely consisting of museum pieces in-
stead of giving untried but likely young-
sters a chance to show what they’re
made of.
It is also anounced that the next
Australian team for England will be
picked after Victoria v. N.S.W. in Syd-
ney next January, the Sheffields starting
with Queensland v. South Aus. in Bris-
bane early in November and ending with
Queensland v. N.S.W. in Brisbane and
S. Aus. v. Victoria—both matches begin
February 4.
There will be a testimonial match to
Grimmett and Richardson in Adelaide
from November 26-30. And Harold
Mudge, now with Julien Cahn’s team,
has been given permission to play with
Leicestershire.
* * *
“Tenth Slip”: The annual barney as
to whether the N.S.W. team will play on
Christmas Day in the Sheffield match
with Victoria has arisen again. Victorians
are willing, and the local clergy are said
to be in favor of afternoon play. N.S.W.
parsons and players are opposed to the
idea.
* * * *
“Susie Swattit”: Cabled that our
cricketing girlies are to be entertained by
the Marylebone club at Lord’s on July
14 during the Gentlemen-Players match.
As the club has also given £25 to the
hospitality fund being raised to enter-
tain the Australians, it is evident that the
M.C.C. is taking quite a paternal interest
in the lasses. All the same the manage-
ment should not depart from the rigid
chaperonage which already has made the
tour famous. M.C.C. members are ter-
rible old sheiks.
* * X
“Aigburth”: Maurice Turnbull, cap-
tain-secretary of Glamorgan, is fond of
releasing cats from cricket bags. His
remarks re shamateurism in county
cricket —he cheerfully quoted his own
case as a paid secretary who would never
have got the job .save for his cricket
ability—roused a furious controversy in
Britain at the time. Now he has been
going for the counties which import
players from all over the world, and says
of Worcestershire that the team consists of
an Indian prince, an Australian, a South
African and a couple of Scots. Lanca-
shire and Middlesex are both guilty of
similar practices, though Turnbull does
not mention them, and there are several
others relying on Australian and M.L.
help. One can hardly blame the hard-
up counties when such a v/ealthy cor-
poration as the English Rugby Union,
with literally hundreds of thousands of
players to draw on, includes a Georgian
and South Africans in “English” teams.


SHADOW
SHOWS
“On the Avenue.”
MALE CROONER .... Dick Powell
FEMALE CROONER .... Alice Fav
SOCIETY GOIL .. Madeleine Carroll
HER MILLIONAIRE POP,
George Barbier
HER EXPLORER FIANCE,
Alan Mowbray
Eightscore years ago the fathers of
America brought forth on their con-
tinent a new nation, conceived in liberty
and dedicated to the proposition that all
men are created equal. Since then it
has been proposed by the. various enter-
tainment “industries” of the U.S.A. that
crooners and step-dancers are born on a
plane higher than the rest of humanity
—higher even than millionaires. The
newer proposition is developed with
painstaking persistence in the opus under
review, the music for which was
machined in the factory of Mr. Irving
Berlin.
Early in the proceedings there is a
ballet in which chorines caper round a
grotesque figure. He’s a scientist. He
Leslie Banks as Leicester in “Fire Over
England,” at Sydney Embassy.
has added to human knowledge in every
lield, weighed the stars, solved the secret
of the cosmic rays and enriched industry
with various great inventions. But he is
a pariah, a social leper, because he “ain’t
got rhythm.” Later the audience is in-
vited to weep at the awful spectacle of
Mr. Powell, while crooning on the stage,
being interrupted by the departure, of
half his audience and the rude irruption
of the Ritz Bros., who supersede his
turn with a coarse burlesque. This out-
rage, of course, was engineered by the
rich society goil who bought the show
so that she could avenge a skit that held
her and her pop up to ridicule.
But even this doesn’t damp the
crooner’s affection for his tormentor, and
finally, just as she. is at the altar with
her sweetheart, a celebrated Arctic ex-
plorer, she leajns that the crooner’s heart
still turns, burns and yearns with lurv.
She elopes with him. If that doesn’t
put those ridiculous highbrows in their
place nothing will. At Sydney Plaza.
“The Man Who Found Himself.”
SURGEON WHO CAME A SOCIETY
CROPPER . —........ John Beal
NURSE WHO REDEEMED HIM,
Joan Fontaine
This is the old one about the extra-
ordinarily clever surgeon who went all
sour on life because his knuckles were
tapped, and determined never to surge
again. While working as an aeroplane
pilot he has to carry nurses to a train
wreck, and is compelled to resume white
overalls and rubber gloves.
John Beal, who is of the Paul Muni
type, looks a bit too callow and has a
bit too much of the Bowery in his accent
for the role he has to play. Miss Fon-
taine is a very pretty girl with a bright
manner, but that doesn’t explain how she
is able to dictate appointments and policy
to the presumably rational manager of an
air transport co. or to induce a reporter
to bury a perfectly good story. Still,
the affair is slickly produced, casting of
small parts is good, and action is fast
enough to keep audiences from yawning.
At Sydney Plaza.
“Nancy Steele Is Missing.”
KIDNAPPER Victor McLaglen
KIDNAPPEE June Lang
CONVICTS Peter Lorre and
John Carradine
BENEVOLENT MILLIONAIRE,
Walter Connolly
Danny O’Neil was a waiter in an ex-
clusive N’Yark club in 1915. Because
Michael Steele was pro-British, Danny,
who was equally anti-British, kidnapped
Steele’s baby daughter, and put her in
the care of old friends, pretending she
was his own daughter, and that he was a
just-widowed sailorman. Then Danny’s
violent temper got him into trouble with
the Law. To gaol he went for a two
years’ term. While there a vindictive
fellow-prisoner (Carradine) framed him
as the starter of a gaol-breaking affray;
the sentence was increased to “life,” and
it wasn’t till Nancy Steele was 21 that
he was a free man again. In the mean-
time Danny’s smooth-spoken, devilishly
clever cell-mate (Lorre) had wormed out
of him the facts of the kidnapping and
that there was a 100,000-dollar reward
outstanding. Final set-up is that Danny,
living as gardener on Steele’s estate, loved
by the girl who looks upon him as
father, learns that his old cell-mate has
foisted on to Steele a spurious daughter
and collected the reward. Danny has
become fond of Steele, and fond of the
girl, but he can’t set matters right with-
out getting himself into an awful pickle.
It wouldn’t be fair to give away the
ending, though it can be easily guessed.
The merit of the film is that it gives
scope for some interesting character-
acting. Danny, slow-witted, black-tem-
pered, immovable once his mind is made
up; his cell-mate, cultured, cynical,
utterly unscrupulous; Steele, a comfort-
able man, who likes to make the people
round him comfortable too —all these are
well-drawn, and their reactions are logical
and convincing. At Sydney Capitol.
“The Mighty Treve.”
BUCOLIC DOG-LOVER,
Noah Beery, jun.
HIS SWEETIE Barbara Read
HER CRANKY UNCLE,
Samuel S. Hinds
Some justification for this snailish
opus is that it introduces a handsome
sheep-dog to the screen. This animal,
which has the edge on the rest of the
cast in the matter of acting ability, is
poorly supported.
The dog, accompanied by a straw-
chewing hick, is befriended by a flapper
whose uncle owns a ranch. Unk’s a
nark, but the peasant is allowed to stay
on and earn his keep, mainly because
the now love-struck niece reduces Unk’s
grumpiness by twining her fingers in his
hair. Dog saves old man from a cougar,
but is then suspected of being a sheep-
killer, later vindicating itself by killing
the real killer. Unk relents, and rustic
and sweetie clinch. At Sydney Capitol.
“A Voice Fell from Heaven.”
REAL SINGER Joseph Schmidt
DUMMY TENOR Billy Milton
THE GIRL Flor
Famous tenors who make films gener-
ally suffer through being associated with
very poor scenarios, and Joseph Schmidt,
who has been described as a “pocket
Tauber,” is no exception.
It is gathered that Mr. Schmidt loves
from afar a beauteous damsel, but her
devotion is given to another, the hand-
some singing star of Miracle Film Pro-
ductions, Inc. (“If it’s a Good Film it’s
a Miracle.”) The Adonis, a booze artist,
does his voice in, so the obliging Mr..
Schmidt “ghosts” for him, thus achiev-
ing fame. But Schmidt misses out on
the girl, who sticks to the handsome lad
with the alcohol complex.
Joseph Schmidt has a beautiful, natural
tenor voice similar in timbre to Tauber’s,
but he lacks the latter’s finished artistry.
He is severely handicapped for film work
by a lack of personality and a speaking
voice which is high-pitched, weak and
husky. He is also only a mediocre actor.
At Sydney Empress.
“Dangerous Number.”
SILK MANUFACTURER,
Robert Young
HIS ACTRESS BRIDE .. Ann Sothern
HIS COUSIN AND PARTNER,
Reginald Owen
Mr. Young and Miss Sothern enter
with zest into a series of adventures,
quarrels and escapades which keep the
comedy moving merrily. Owen, that
remarkably versatile character actor,
excels himself as Cousin William, a hard-
headed businessman, but apt in his
moments of relaxation to wander off on
interminable reminiscences of his travels.
William explains how he, came to grow
his truly remarkable beard. Travelling
in China he discovered, hiding under a
mulberry leaf, an entirely new sort of
silk cocoon, dark red and perfectly hair-
less. No cocoons are allowed to leave
China, so he had to smuggle it out con-
cealed in his beaver.
About midway through the piece Mr.
Young, seeking distraction from matri-
mony, takes a taxi ride with Vera the
Deadshot Queen (Marla Shelton), pur-
sued by gangsters, at whom the lady
takes frequent potshots through the rear
window. The fantasia winds up with
Young driving a sedan into a deep liver
and rescuing Miss Sothern through the
window. At Sydney Civic.
“Man of the People.”
LAWYER WHO TURNED HONEST,
Joseph Calleia
POLITICAL BOSS .. Thomas Mitchell
CONTINUALLY-EATING HEELER,
Ted Healy
SOCIETY GOIL Florence Rice
The ordinarily sad-eyed and resentful-
looking Mr. Calleia has some brighter
moments in this opus. He sets himself,
after climbing to eminence under politi-
cal patronage, to unveil the swindle of
a goldmining corporation which claims
to own and operate an infallible gold-
detecting machine. This he does very
effectively. Interest is well sustained.
Mitchell gives a good picture of a ward
boss, and Healy’s gastronomic feats add
something on the side of gaiety. Miss
Rice is just dragged in by the heels and
her contribution is negligible. At Sydney
Civic.
“Rainbow’s End.”
FAST-GALLOPING HERO.
Hoot Gibson
THE GIRL June Gale
Hoot is the scion of a crusty old
ranch-owning millionaire. Old man is
straight enough, but his partner is
addicted to all the vices of horse-opera
villains, including the rustling of cows,
the armed robbery of payrolls, and the
illicit use of influence with banks to ruin
rival ranchers. Hoot gets a job with one
of these rivals, an old chap with a pretty
Morton Selten as Burleigh in “Fire
Over England.”
daughter, and immediately the barometer
begins to drop for the bad man and his
rascally myrmidons. They get theirs, but
not in the shape of lead. Hoot nowadays
relies on a straight left and a dirty right,
and the mighty impact of his blows
almost makes dints in the screen. This
vigorous exposition of the theorem that
honesty is the best policy cheers the
patrons of Sydney Lyric.
“When You’re in Love.”
YOUNG PRIMA DONNA,
Grace Moore
CHARTERED HUSBAND, Cary Grant
PRIMA DONNA'S COMPANION,
Aline McMahon
Opens with one of Puccini’s juiciest
soprano arias, sung by Miss Moore as a
background of the titling. There, almost,
the musical interest begins and ends. The
plot is old and feeble —prima donna, a
non-American, must get into the U.S.A.
to fulfil important engagement, but her
country’s quota is exhausted. She must
marry an American. So Cary Grant, a
painter of murals, unconventional but
golden-hearted, comes into the picture.
He is to get 2000 bucks for the marriage
and 5000 for the divorce. Of course,
after a certain amount of quarrelling and
spooning, the marriage sticks.
There is one scene in which Miss
Moore’s director had a great chance to
show his faith in her really delectable
voice. The husband -pro-tem. takes his
bride into the woodlands and induces
her to sing to the owls and the bunnies
and the antelopes, but, alas! the wilder-
ness is not sufficiently cloistered to shut
out the strains of the large orchestra
Flora Robson as Elizabeth in “Fire
Over England.”
which, apparently, follows the singer
about all day and all night, and is on
hand even should she carol a stave in
the bathroom.
Henry Stephenson is a composer-con-
ductor ; Luis Alberniz is a pompous ass.
They, with the leads, do their best with
miserably poor material—do it in Sydney
at the State. Bright spots are Miss
Moore’s spirited rendition of “Minnie
the Moocher” and a kiddies’ song with
an unconventional accompaniment and
Aline McMahon’s dry wisecracks. Miss
Moore’s performance of the Schubert
“Serenade” suffers by comparison with
Lehmann’s. At Sydney State.
“Step Lively, Jeeves.”
JEEVES, ALIAS EARL OF
BRADDOCK Arthur Treacher
CON. MEN ...... Alan Dinehart and
George Givot
BIG-SHOT GANGSTER,
John Hemingway
YOUNG MILLIONAIRE, Robert Kent
REPORTER ESS Patricia Ellis
Quite the most successful attempt yet
to put Wodehousian humor on the
screen. Jeeves, valet in London to an
English lord, is inveigled to N’York by
confidence tricksters who tell him he is
the Earl of Braddock, heir to the gigantic
( buried-treasure fortune of Sir Francis
Drake. Dinehart’s associate is a Russian
pseudo-prince who outdoes Mrs. Mala-
prop and Dr. Spooner in his exercises
in the English idiom. With him the
great transatlantic republic is the United
Snakes and Britain’s most famous queen
is Louisabeth.
Arrived in Manhattan, Jeeves and his
guardians are shanghaied by a big-shot
gangster who lives in a palace and whose
wife has social aspirations. Jeeves
thoroughly enjoys the gangsters, teaches
the gangsteress croquet, advises the boss
about sartorial niceties, and is the life
and soul of a big charity bazaar. When
the showdown comes Jeeves, whose con-
science is perfectly clean, outs a gang of
gunmen with a series of straight lefts and
departs serenely to valet the handsome
young millionaire who is lugged into the
fantasia to partner Miss Ellis. At the
fadeout the undismayed con. men are
selling the boss gangster the Russian
Crown jewels. Going the rounds.
“After the Thin Man.”
BOOZE-PROOF EX-
DETECTIVE William Powell
HIS WIFE Myrna toy
ALLEGED HUSBAND-
MURDERER Elissa Landi
HER BOY FRIEND .... James Stewan
CROOKS .... Joseph Calleia, William
Law and Paul Fix
Practically the whole history of Holly-
wood thrillers since “The Thin Man”


THE PERFECT
SCHOOL
LUNCH
Usually the school
lunch is a very scratch
meal, which is eaten just
when the vigorous exercise
of the playground has
made a strong demand on
the endurance of the child.
However, with little
trouble, it can be improved
in nutritional value and
made wonderfully attrac-
tive to the child, simply by
adding a few buttered Milk
Arrowroot Biscuits; they
are a delicious and valu-
able milk food.
LIVING
PICTURES
Dear Sirs:
Beverley Martin, aged 2 year*,
has been fed on ARNOTT’S MILK
ARROWROOT BISCUITS since the
age of 9 months, morning and night
in milk, and would not go without
them, as she is so fond of them.
Yours sincerely,
(Signed) Mrs. A. E. MARTIN.
25 Park Street,
Campsie.
Always ask your Grocer for Arnott's
“They are Better tkasa E¥e?”
nas been that of efforts to recapture some
of the ingredients of that very successful
mingling of comedy and crime but the
recipe remains as elusive as that of the
accidental elixir in the O. Henry story.
“After the Thin Man” makes use of
Powell and Loy in their original roles
as an ex-detective with an abnormal
alcohol-tolerance and his complaisant
wife, and there is the same sprink-
ling’ of quaint, strong characters, as
exemplified by Jessie Ralph as a
masterful old lady, William Law as a
bland Chinese gangster and George
Zucco as a venal alienist. But the crime
plot is hackneyed in type, its elabora-
tions are more in the style of Heath
Robinson than of Conan Doyle, and the
second hour of the long screen-play
doesn’t live up to its promising prelude.
The fault is not with the Powell-Loy
combination. Powell is at his imperturb-
able, whimsical best; Miss Loy plays
up to him as amusingly as ever. Without
its arbitrary tie-up to what has become
a screen classic the effort might have
been passed as good entertainment of its
sort, though a bit long. But titled as it
is it invites comparisons. Previewed at
M.G.M. Theatrette, Sydney.
“Wings of the Morning.”
GIPSY PRINCESS 4 nnabella
GIPSY QUEEN Irene Vanbrugh
HORSE-TRAINER Henry Fonda
EARL Leslie Banks
BARONET Stewart Rome
This excellent romantic film in techni-
color is what Percy Grainger would call
a “free ramble” on the theme of Donn
Byrne’s Destiny Bay. A love affair
between a Canadian trainer (Canadian
because he is Henry Fonda, with an in-
eradicable accent) and the granddaughter
of the gipsy Countess of Clontarf is inter-
twined with more recognisable incidents,
such as the winning of the Derby by the
gipsy colt and the. procession of gipsies
on Epsom course, escorting their queen
in triumph after the win. She’s dead,
but her presence on the course in the
midst of that cavalcade of caravans is
taken as presumption that she’s alive —
the old Derby rule disqualifies a winning
horse if its owner dies before the race is
run. An inserted interlude is a musical
evening at Clontarf Castle, where John
McCormack, in person, sings old Irish
songs.
Annabella, a young French actress,
making her screen debut, has vivacity
and charm and the right sort of com-
plexion for a gipsy role. Fonda plays up
well, and other important parts are in
safe hands. There has been no attempt
to force color effects, but all the scenes
have been arranged with an eye to good
composition.
The Irish countryside, the streets of
London, gay on the morning of the
Derby, and Epsom course, with its costers
in pearlies, gipsies, nigger minstrels and
raucous bookies, provide effective ma-
terial for technicolor. “Wings of the
Morning” is claimed to be the first all-
color film produced in England. It is
so good as to tempt the remark that it
begins where the American essays in
color left off. Previewed at Fox
Theatrette, Sydney.
STAGE SHOWS.
Lehmann Charms Melbourne.
A smaller figure than local listeners
had for some reason imagined, Lotte
Lehmann appeared on the platform at
the Town Hall, Melbourne, on Saturday
with a row of vocal ninepins to knock
over which included songs by Schubert,
Brahms, Hugo Wolf, Richard Strauss,
Wagner and Puccini. She had knocked
them over previously within the hearing
of most of the audience per medium of
gramophone disc or radio loudspeaker,
and done it with that perfectly devas-
tating finality which makes the hearer
exclaim “Well, it couldn’t possibly have
been done any other way.”
No doubt the audience was on tenter-
hooks to know whether she would bowl
over these familiar targets with her cus-
tomary skill and accuracy, and that is
why it warmed up to the marvellous
Viennese songbird so slowly that pianist
Ulanowsky, somewhat to his surprise,
gathered in more applause for his two
intermezzi half-way through the pro-
gramme than the Lehmann had as yet
extracted with two panels of beautiful
vocal items.
It turned out the Lehmann was in
perfect fettle, and she revealed such
unsuspected subtleties, even in the
hackneyed Schubert numbers, that the
audience was enraptured and once or
twice broke out with its appreciation
before the item was finished.
Making a remarkable round O of
her mouth, Madame Lehmann brings out
of it such a variety of sounds that it is
sometimes as if she had a flute or some
other instrument concealed about her
person, like certain Tivoli vaudevilleans,
though such considerations are soon for-
gotten, for she sings with such unaffected
simplicity and such an apparent lack of
effort that the singer is immediately sub-
merged and lost in the singing. In “Elsa’s
Dream” and “Vissi d’Arte” the powers
of her dramatic soprano were displayed
to better advantage than they were in
“The Stork’s Message.” The bracket of
Wolf songs was the most purely musical.
4 4* 4 4
“Don Giovanni” at Sydney Con.
Any hard feelings a critic might
cherish about the initial performance of
Mozart’s most serious opera by the Syd-
ney Con. opera class must be tempered
by the fact that singers, orchestra and
those who contributed to production
seemed to find the essay good fun, and
that, while the performance rose nowhere
to dizzy musical or histrionic heights, it
was intelligent, and did some measure
of justice, to the unerringly beautiful sym-
metry of every number.
Florent Hoogstoel, who conducted, evi-
dently knows the opera well, and loves
it. David Barwell as the brave but
wicked baritone philanderer and Doris
Julius, Alice Houghton and Marie Ryan
as the soprano ladies sang their num-
bers passably ; the weakest links, as usual
in Australia, were the tenors. William
Mason in the basso part of Leporello
collected such acting honors as are going,
and made a good job of his aria “Mad-
amina il catalogo e questo.” The orches-
tra was a bulwark of strength at every
stage in the performance.
•J*
“The Black Eye” at Perth.
“The Black Eye” of James Bridie
gazed over crowded audiences during the
Rep. Club’s four-night season. Mrs.
Hubert Momber directed affairs with
workmanlike skill, and young Bruce
White scored a success in the leading
role of George Windlestraw. Norrie
John and Harold Harvey had major
parts, Gordon Dean, Mrs. Cecil Tread-
gold and William Hoey made the most
of their characterisations, and a half-
Gv.zen others served the company well in
brief appearances.
CURRENT ARTBURSTS.
Water-colors and Woodcuts.
Gladys Gibbons, whose water-colors
were shown at the Macquarie Galleries,
Sydney, paints flowers and bush scenes.
Coloring is clean and fresh and com-
position and drawing are excellent. In
such flower pieces as “Poppies” and
“November Lilies” Miss Gibbons gets
all the grace and daintiness the subject
and the medium can afford. Her bush
studies are pretty designs, but can pretend
to be little more. “Dusk,” for instance,
utterly fails to live up to its title.
Ailsa Allan, whose wood- and lino-
cuts were hung in the same show, evi-
dences mastery of this pleasant craft in
her most ambitious offering, “The New
Bridge.” (the reference is to Brisbane), and
shows originality in such unusual designs
as “The Navigation Lesson” and “Open,
Please,” the latter being what the patient
sees from a dentist’s chair.
4* + 4*
Colors from the Interior.
Central Australian colors have been
brought to Melbourne again by Rex
Battarbee, whose water-colors are on
show at the Fine Art Society’s gallery.
The painter is fond of the decorative, but
his best work is among the more simple
studies. Perhaps because it is a change
from drier scenes, his picture of Mt.
Hermannsburg stands out. Gums along
the Finke River and a landscape in
which creeping shadows are shown are
both well done.
4* 4 4 4
Nude and Landscape Pastels.
Miss Cumbrae Stewart, back in Mel-
bourne after an absence of some years,
has an exhibition of her work at the
Athenaeum gallery, subjects of her pastels
varying from landscapes and nudes to a
portrait. Italian and French scenes, rich
in coloring, predominate among the land-
scapes ; “Vecchio,” showing a lovely old
bridge in quiet tones, is an excellent
study. An Edinburgh sketch is another
of the really good ones. The nudes —
quite a few of them —are well done. Miss
Stewart is particularly adept at modelling
her heads, which, in most of the exhibits,
are impressively handled.


The Richardson Chain ITntol
•• £■&■
THE
HOTEL
LONDON
99 Elizabeth St.,
(next Collins St.)
Melbourne
Hot and Cold
Water, Telephone
and Central Heat-
ing, Reading Lamp
to Every Bedroom.
MELBOURNE'S MOST
CENTRAL HOTEL.
RATES PER DAY.
Room and Meals .... from 12/6
Room and Breakfast .. from 7/6
Bartz— Salts of the Earth
Drugs are only a temporary reiief, but BARTZ,
the IMPROVED MINERAL SPRING TONIC
SALTS, is Nature’s own remedy for excessive
fat, headaches, rheumatic pains, sleeplessness,
giddiness, high blood pressure, constipation, etc.
Obtainable all Chemists and Stores, price
1/- and 2/-, or direct post free. Cheaper and
better. Sole distributors,
British Colonial & Eastern Chemicals. J.til..
Co-69 York Street, Sydney. ’Phone: 81V666J.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
First there was a programme, of music,
then presentations to the vice-regals, then
coffee for all, at the E.-S.U.’s reception
to Lord and Lady Wakehurst. More
than 200 members dressed the ballroom
of the Australia with their best velvets
and satins, white ties and a complete
absence of benzined gloves. At least,
no breath of such fought for precedence
with the perfume of powder and lipstick
and the dab of scent behind the ear.
Everything was decorous and decorative
and ran with satin smoothness. Lady
Wakehurst has a particular interest in
the E.-S.U., as her sister, Mrs. Walter
Elliot, is chairman of the Common In-
terests Committee at the London head-
quarters. Mrs. Vernon Cole, who, with
knight Henry Braddon and Colonel
Spain, received the guests, was handsome
in flower-patterned vellum moires and a
shoulder cape of white ostrich plumes.
Lady Wakehurst wore a ground-
length redingote of black moire closely
woven with gold, and her flowers were
dark-red roses. Hermione Llewellyn,
who, with Captain Harding and Captain
Lawrence, was in the group from Gov-
ernment House, was caped in white fur.
Fur capes at their glossiest were seen
on Miss Veitch and Ruby Adams. Poin-
settia-reds glowed in Dolly Hollander
Moore’s sweeping crepes. Coral-pink
were Mrs. Arthur Cheeke’s chiffons. The
Philip Streets were there, her lame coat
butterfly bright against her green frock.
Mayoress Parkes’s brown net cape threw
the gold of her satins into relief. Mrs.
C. B. Hearn and Mrs. W. E. McKellar
were among the handsomely frocked.
Mrs. Harry Twigden arranged the pro-
gramme and gave some piano numbers.
Ruth Pearce-Jones, Lute Drummond,
Heather Kinnaird and Muriel Edsall
helped to make the programme. Male
supports were Raymond Beatty, Ken
Neate. and Vaughan Hanly. Mary Evans
Jones, looking fresh as a daisy, was the
evening’s deb.
The Girl Guides did not put all their
eggs in one basket. On each day of
their International Exhibition in Anthony
Horderns’ Country Club they had a star-
visitor. Belgium’s popular Consul
Henry Segaert blessed the official open-
ing, and his wife handed out the certifi-
cates for the most realistic representation
of life, in other (Girl Guide) lands. Lady
Wakehurst made the speech on the
second day. An international doll con-
test was the feature of the day’s tourney.
On Friday Mayoress Parkes decided the
fate of the posters.
1 reland romped home in the realistic
display. Backed by a cabin with a half
door, the scene was one of animation,
with the good man making his nets and
beshawled colleens presiding over a prize
exhibit of vegetables. India showed the
Taj Mahal, and Indian girls in pretty
saris sang little songs. Holland was
quaint with its windmill seen through a
window. Switzerland, Esthonia, China,
Canada, and many other lands were
represented.
Lady Wakehurst came in Guide uni-
form, inspected each stall and said a
few words to the girls in charge. One.
of the most interesting displays was the
small army of dolls dressed in the Guide
uniforms of the world. These were the
work of the lone Guides of the State,
the youngsters on faraway stations, in
the bushland homes of the outer spaces.
. The lift is still working overtime carry-
ing visitors to the Norman Lindsay show
in the Macleod Gallery. Sales are touch-
ing the 500-guinea mark, and the.
National Gallery has put its seal on five
typical works in oils, water-colors and
etching.
The guests at the Kanimbla Ball were
met by a Snowball. But it was the cap-
tain of that name, and there was nothing
cold about his greeting. Neither was
there about the supper, for with the
turkey hot vegetables were served. Ship
and supper were gifts of Mcllwraith,
McEacharn and Co., and the Australia
orchestra was the gift of Mrs. Bertie
Kelly, president of the committee. The
Crown-street Women’s Hospital was the
beneficiary, so the hospital’s secretary,
May Mitchell, with Mrs. Harold Bott,
looked after the secretarial end. The
awning of 1 gaiety over the gangway,
chrysanthemums massed in the lounges,
the decks flooded with changing lights
and a broadcast from the ship by Mrs.
Bott under her singing name, Marie
Brown, put joy into the night.
Mrs. Bertie Kelly’s coronet of deli-
cately-modelled pink, blue and ivory
flowers was admired ; so was the bunch
of grapes in blistered pearl that decked
Mrs. Bott’s black romaine frock. This
wore one of the new apron fronts,' flared.
The Waley lady, one of Crown-street’s
staunchest friends, burned with emeralds,
and was otherwise black velvet. Mrs.
R. C. Dickson, another Crown-street
enthusiast, who, with the Waley lady, kept
the treasury, had hostessed a dinner party
at the Macquarie Club beforehand, and
with her husband and guests arrived in
time to help in the greetings. Mayoress
Parkes was the guest of honor. Her
satins were silvery grey, her roses deep
red. The. James Kelsos (James is chair-
man of the line), who are making the
round trip in the Kanimbla, were in the
fun. There were lucky bags, and one
man had three winners. One prize was
a week-end up the mountains ; another
was a ham.
This very paintable head and face
are Mrs. Will Ashton’s. Her husband is
the clever artist who is now director ol
our National Gallery.
St. Andrew’s Cathedral has passed its
century. To celebrate the fact a recep-
tion was held, and the Town Hall was
filled to capacity with clergy and their
wives, with bishops, with the Broughton
Centenary Choir (200 of these) and with
the lay faithful. The white-surpliced
choir was on the platform, which was
further decorated with a large Union
Flag. The Governor and Lady Wakehurst
were the guests of the evening, and an-
other important was Melbourne’s Arch-
bishop, Dr. Head, who had flown to
Sydney for the occasion. The Bishop
of Tanganyika brought a breath of the
Empire outposts. Archbishop Mowll
was a handsome figure, and Mrs. Mowll
was graceful in black chiffons, the
shoulder scarves of which were emerald.
Ermine and velvet wrapped Philip
Street’s lady. The Julius and Owen
ladies, who are helping with the centen-
ary celebrations, were in the official
group. Lady Wakehurst’s short coat was
of rose and silver brocade. Her frock
was Parma violet.
Lamorna Birch is the. first English R.A.
to come to our shores. There wasn’t a
triumphal arch erected, as there might
have been if he had been a star of the
movie-picture world, but the Art Gallery
fathers spread a lunch for him. Perhaps
the Gallery wasn’t the best spot, as the
artist had been suffering with a chill,
but it was appropriate. Also it was
handy for the lecture which the visitor
was billed to give at three o’clock. Weil,
the lecture was delightful, but one lis-
tener came away knowing just as much
about art as when she entered. The
artist lost track of his notes, and once,
looking for them, dragged something out
which he muttered looked like the
gas bill. In the end he said he expected
he’d made a “mess of it,” but he was very
happy to be among us. Lamorna is the
typical artist. He has a beard (pepper-
and-saltish) and eyes of that alert vague-
ness that are met with in some artists
and poets. Rod Quinn has them, and
they were part of Tom Roberts’s charm.
Mrs. Birch is small, and her quietness
is edged with a glancing brightness. She
recalled the brightness of the berries on
the hills above Wakatipu, the gorse-
covered slopes of the Mackenzie coun-
try, the meditative quality of the clouds
above the Shag Valley, where they were
the guests of the Bells. The beauties of
Maoriland have claimed them and their
friend the Hon. Mrs. Vane for some
months, and already they are planning a
return. But first there is to be a visit
to grandson Adam Claire in England.
Mrs. Vane, originally an Enzedder, since
her marriage makes her home in Eng-
land, close, by the way, to the De Chair
home.
Norma Lake, pictured here by Ray-
mond Sawyer, has the leading part in
Ken Brodziak’s new play “Positions
Vacant.” Dorise Hill has sent out invi-
tations for a private first night at her
Pickwick Club on Sunday, May 30.
The decision of Espinosa, chairman of
the British Ballet organisation, to come
back to Australia next year and form an
Australian ballet is a sound one. Bobbie
Helpman went from Sydney to London,
and almost immediately became one of
the leading male dancers at Sadler’s
Wells, where Constant Lambert conducts
the ballet music. Ivy Shilling, Cyril
Ritchard, Madge Elliott and many others
have all proved that Australians dancing
can catch the eye of the world. Espinosa
is still going to the various centres con-
ducting examinations in ballet, from chil-
dren’s to teachers’ grades. He himself
has appeared as principal dancer in
about 300 productions in the big cities
of the world. A studio where the
Espinosa method will be taught is already
being established.
Under the serene sky of Saturday
afternoon the quadrangle at the Victoria
Barracks presented a spirited scene.
Seven hundred or more Voluntary
Aiders, Red Crossers and St. John Ambu-
lance detachments paraded for the Gov-
ernor’s inspection, and quite a company
assembled to watch the parade. The
vice-regals were received by Colonel
Walsh. Yellows and browns were com-
bined in Lady Wakehurst’s suit and
small toque. Secretary Hermione
Llewellyn was Parma violet as to woolly
suit, and black velvet as to hat. Mrs.
R. W. Walsh was smartly suited in grey.
Colonel Vicars was in charge of the
parade. Mayoress Parkes brought niece
Marjorie, and the military in numbers
escorted its wife.
The National Theatre, which was pre-
viously the Australian Hall, was chris-
tened last Saturday afternoon. Alexander
Gordon’s lady cracked a bottle of cham-
pagne over the footlights, naming the
new hope of the Australian drama in a
firm voice. Then there were the usual
speeches, and after that sherry was sipped
to the success of the venture. The
color scheme of this theatre, which is
to be devoted to the presentation of
plays written by Australians, is in warm
tones of brown and green, and the seats
are arranged so that, instead of staring
straight at the head of the man in front,
you will look over his shoulder. Repre-
sentatives from every amateur group in
Sydney were at the party.
There were artists and writers (among
them Leslie Haylen and Peter Ree, who
wrote the play which opened the theatre,
“Mulligan of the Mounted”). Jeanie
Ranken and Ethelwyn Kirk were there,
looking learnedly at the lighting arrange-
ments. Mrs. A. E. James helped pour
the sherry; so did Anne Gordon.
The buffet was set with immense
baskets of fruit and vegetables. Those
rolls of bread that are sold by the yard
coyly coquetted with pats of butter and
stalwart-looking cheese. The directors
are Arnold Mote, John Carlisle, Mrs.
Emily Marks and M. J. Hackett. The
secretary is John Davis, and Peter Ree is
managing director.
The lunch that the trustees gave to
Lamorna Birch was set in the board-
room of the Gallery. This was decked
with a brand-new carpet, of the deep
blue that we are all calling Coronation.
It has a gold border, on which a crown
is the recurring symbol. Philip Street,
of course, was at the lunch ; so were
John Lane Mullins, Howard Hinton,
Syd Ure Smith, Lister-Lister and Syd
Long. 'To the after-the-lecture walk-
about Dattilo Rubbo brought his gay
knack of speech, and the Bertie Kellys
added to the fun. For once there were
lots of young men about the landscape.
Gag Beaton among them. Mrs. Will
Ashton was of the company, so was
Harry Tighe, and Will Ashton, the Gal-
lery’s director, looked happy in the occa-
sion.
Next to Mrs. Kate Dwyer Mrs. Eva
M. Seery, who died last week, was the
most energetic of the women who helped
the Labor party on the woman’s side in
the struggling days. Mrs. Seery acted
for years as secretary of the Labor
Women’s Central Organising Commit-
tee, which the two women founded. Her
one attempt to get into Parliament was
unsuccessful, but she helped to win seats
for many men.
Out at Kyeemagh on Saturday the
Brighton and Kilbride teams played polo,
the Boyle Cup the prize, the Police and
Rotary boys’ clubs to profit by the gate-
money. Campbelltown was interested in
this match, and Mrs. Curtis Skene, whose
husband captained the Kilbrides, arrived
early. Mrs. J. D. McLeod and Mrs.
Wallace Horsley, of Gundagai, followed
the play closely ; so did Phyllis Bray,
of vS.A. A berry-red blouse toned up
Shirley Poynter’s dark-green suit. The
l'rocking was tweedy. Gloves occasion-
ally struck a vivid note and bloomed
yellow or red. Hats were velour and
neat to the head. The cup was given by
Councillor Boyle, of Sutherland Shire
Council.
When Norman Hartnell went to Wind-
sor for special fittings and consultations
in the matter of the frocks for Queen
Elizabeth, just prior to the Coronation,
he took with him an army of manne-
quins and other attendants. They were
all busy, when suddenly the Queen
looked up. “Oh,” she said, “they are
changing the Guard. I’m sure you’d all
like to see that.” So a halt was called
while the girls had a satisfying gaze.
Later on, about two o’clock, Her Majesty
remarked: “You must all be very
hungry, after such a lot of work.” Where-
upon the whole company was shown into
a small dining-room and served with a
hot meal. And if that isn’t real queen-
liness, what is?
One of the week’s bright balloons was
the Stage Ball at the Trocadero. In
spite of the fact that the Royal and the
Tivoli are the only professional stands
of entertainment in the city, there were
sufficient devotees of the stage to crowd
out the Trocadero. The Actors’ Benevo-
lent Fund will benefit. And amid the fun
one cold little thought persisted—just
how many good actors in Sydney are out
of a shop? Gladys Moncrieff was a
handsome figure, in ivory velvet worn
with orchids. The Cecil Kellaways were
among the gazed upon. Mrs. Kellaway’s
frock was a delicate affair of blue chiffon.
E J. Tait, and the Harald Bowden couple
entertained the official group. Mrs. Bow-
den’s frock was of lame in Coronation
blue. Don Nicol did a bit of caricatur-
ing as the night wore on. Gilbert and
Sullivan were represented by a set of 33.
The Dan Carrolls brought a large party.
Her frock was of deep lilac chiffon.
A pretty story was revived the other
day, following the death of a belle of
the early ’nineties, when Sydney was
young and gay of heart. One morning,
very bright of eye, she stepped out of her
father’s house in a fashionable square,
and met and married the young man of
her heart. She was only in her teens,
and had been afraid to ask her parents'
consent, so when she was asked by
authority blessing the vows if she was
21, she whispered blushingly “I am over
21.” So she was, for that morning, very
early, she had inked plainly on the sole
of each shoe a large “21.”


*iany
If you want to get the most out of your
time and your ability, if you want to
make greater profit, then these ten
volumes represent an investment that
will bring returns a hundredfold.
They give you in the most simple and straightforward
manner the knowledge and ability of the world’s ablest minds.
SPEECH:
HOW TO USE IT EFFECTIVELY.
Words and language—The spoken
word and the thought Sword or
shield—Wealth of eloquence of wit —
Oratorical rivalry and conversation—
How to acquire the art of speaking—
Automatism and thought Attitude
and gesture in speech delivery—Speech
as used in business and family life—
Speech and instruction —The power of
the voice over feelings.
TIMIDITY:
HOW TO OVERCOME IT.
A mistaken virtue How to prevent
the growth of timidity—Timidity and
exaggerated self-confidence—Timidity
the enemy of health Timidity and
family life Timidity the parent of
envy Aestheticism and timidity
Timidity and business In praise of
audacity—The acquisition of poise—
The recognition of one’s worth—The
right attitude.
OPPORTUNITIES: HOW TO MAKE
THE MOST OF THEM.
What is fortune?—Watch your oppor-
tunity and fortune will favour you—
Luck and fetishism—Fortune favours
the bold—Luck and chance—The part
that luck plays in life Opportunity
and fortune in the lives of great men —
How to conquer fortune Fortune’s
fluctuations.
PRACTICALITY:
HOW TO ACQUIRE IT.
What is practicality?—Experience—
Perspicacity—-Insight—The stock-in-
trade of the practical man —His devices
Each Volume is 4|in. x
7in., and is bound in Fabri-
koid with gilt embossed
lettering.
-—Patience and good nature —Super-
ficial generosity—lntelligent confidence
and intelligent distrust —Knowledge of
the direction in which one’s interest lies
—The false practical sense —Errors in
foresight—The practical sense in the
struggle for life—Woman: has she the
practical spirit?—How to acquire the
practical sense—Conclusion.
CHARACTER:
HOW TO STRENGTHEN IT.
Its acquisition and mastery What
constitutes strength of character
Calmness in strength Physical pain
and the power of character The
struggle against enfeebling sentiment—
Fear and strength of character—Exer-
cises of the intellect for acquiring
strength of character Strength of
character in business —Happiness and
strength of character.
COMMON SENSE:
HOW TO EXERCISE IT.
Common sense: What is it ? The
fight against illusion—The develop-
ment of the reasoning power Com-
mon sense and impulse—The dangers
of sentimentality The utility of
common sense in daily life Power
of deduction—How to acquire com-
mon sense —Common sense and action
•—The most thorough business man —
Common sense and self-control
Common sense does not exclude great
aspirations.
INFLUENCE: HOW TO EXERT IT.
By the increase and spread of psychic
forces By persuasion Through
clearness of speech—By setting good
example—By decision—By rational
ambition—By perseverance —By the
prestige gained from concentration —
By confidence—Acquisition of domi-
nating power.
POISE: HOW TO ATTAIN IT.
Poise: its need, its enemies, its effect—
The need of poise in life The
enemies of poise—War on timidity—
How to acquire poise—Modesty and
effrontery contrasted—Physical exer-
cises to acquire poise—Four series of
physical exercises—Practical exercises
for obtaining poise The supreme
achievement.
PERSEVERANCE: HOW TO DEVELOP IT.
The impediments to perseverance —True perseverance
The dangers of obstinacy How to avoid excess of
enthusiasm—lndecision the inveterate foe of perseverance
How to develop perseverance Practical exercises for
acquiring perseverance —Perseverance in our daily life
Perseverance and the choice of a vocation A key to
fortune.
PERSONALITY: HOW TO BUILD IT.
What is personality ? The qualities necessary to form
personality-—Paying attention to the opinion of others—
Caution: rational and clear-sighted Mistakes to be
avoided—Too much self-confidence —Lack of delicacy—
False success Exaggerated errors —Finickiness —False
delicacy—Lack of self-confidence —Lack of balance in
one’s qualities—Be original but retain the esteem of others
—The adroit arriver—Obstacles to overcome —Personality,
how to exert it—Conclusion.
m
S" :
WM
m
m
■
MM
: : V-x
m
cm
■ s
m
m
ms
Hi
ORDER FORM
Angus & Robertson, Ltd.,
89 Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
Please send me a set of the NEW MENTAL EFFICIENCY
LIBRARY in ten volumes.
. . . for which / enclose 3716.
. . . for which / enclose 6/- deposit and agree to make 6 further consecu-
tive monthly payments of 6 /
NAME OCCUPATION
ADDRESS
BUSINESS ADDRESS
B. 26/5/’37.


m
WILCOX SMITH & CO
Postage Stamp Merchants,
Liverpool Street,
Dunedin, N,Z.
16 Page Buying and
Selling List Free.
Established 49 years.
Bankers: The Union.
Your best
protection
against
infection
HUDSONS
EUMENTHOL" i*
JUJUBES
Universally
used for
almost 50
years . . .
6d. & 1/6 tin
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 683 of 1937.
BETWEEN AUDREY LILIAN LISTER
Petitioner
And FRANK LISTER Respondent.
TO FRANK LISTER.
TAKE NOTICE that the said AUDREY
LILIAN LISTER has commenced a suit against
you in this Honorable Court and is applying
for a dissolution of marriage on the grounds
of desertion for three years and upwards with-
out just cause or excuse AND TAKE NOTICE
that you are required to enter an appearance
to the said suit at the proper office of this
Honorable Court on or before the Seventeenth
day of August One thousand nine hundred
and thirty-seven and in the event of your not
doing so within the time limited or obtaining
further time the Petitioner will proceed and
the suit be heard and determined your absence
notwithstanding. A copy of the petition filed
herein may be had on application to the
undersigned free of charge.
DATED this Seventeenth day of May, One
thousand nine hundred and thirty-seven.
For the Registrar,
(1.5.) C. A. H. HARMS,
Clerk in Divorce.
A. J. P. HALL, Solicitor for the Petitioner,
3 Castlereagh Street, Sydney, New South Wales.
Melbourne
Chatter
The Godfrey Ellises’ cocktail party
started early and finished late, and every-
body seemed to know everybody else.
Pat Ramsden was there, still in the ebb-
tide of glory about the golf trophy he
won and presented to his wife. The Ray
Bruhns were talking of a proposed trip to
Portsea, fair weather or foul; Jim Bar-
naby was heard in his usual good form,
and fleeting glimpses were caught of the
lan Hendersons and the John and Byram
Gowans couples. Turnbull-avenue was
well represented with the Lindsay Plants,
the Bill McKendricks, Dr. and Mrs.
Hugh Murray and the Charlie Alsops.
From Yarradale-road came the Tom
Mackays, owners of two cypresses apd
a cream brick house with quaint shutters
which had a narrow escape from being
burnt to matchwood during the first week
of its owners’ occupation through some-
body dropping a cigarette butt into a
cushion.
Parties have been falling so thick and
fast round the Fred Wares and the
Charles Hartmans that both couples have
forgotten what it feels like to eat in their
own homes. Members of the quartet
are due for a lot more of one another’s
company, for they have adjoining pale-
green boudoirs on the Mariposa, leaving
for the U.S.A. this week. Among those
who turned on the fare of hospitality
were the Larry Hartnetts and the Frank
Partridges, with buffet dinners, the E. A.
Callanans, who got out cocktail glasses
at their flat in Anderson-street, and the
Guy McHenrys, who shuffled friends
and cards at an evening bridge party.
Mrs. J. M. Lindsay’s good-bye contri-
bution was an afternoon bridge party
at Chevron. The Vernon Perkins couple
had bridge at' Menzies, and Mrs. Alan
Nathan chose the same meeting-place
for her tea party. The Herbert Allens
made their offering in cocktails at a
party which dissolved fairly late and left
behind a few intimate friends who found
they still had room for some supper and
a follow-on of fireside chatter. The
Harry Cavanaughs gathered up every-
body for a final fling of highballs at Sil-
verton, Orrong-road.
The rehearsal for the International
Club Pageant was only a shadow of the
finished article. Groups and costumes
were incomplete ; the Consul for France
and Madame Claudon,who enjoyed gal-
lery seats of honor on the important
night, helped to fill up gaps behind the
French standard. Britannia wearing a
fur coat gave an arm of her throne to a
lusty beefeater, with whom she carried
on an animated discussion on -world
affairs. Dr. Ralph Trail rehearsed his
morris dance in cream flannels and pull-
over with bells tied round his legs like
bowyangs. During presentations the
State of Victoria removed the hoop of
her crinoline so that she could sit on a
little more than the edge of her throne,
make her bows and eat an apple in
comfort.
On the night of the pageant everything
went off without a hitch. British Empire
groups and mandates occupied the stage,
and the other nations after their presen-
tations followed their standard-bearers
to positions in the main body of the hall.
Augmented additions this year included
representations of both China and Japan
and of Lebanon, Finland, Esthonia and
Palestine, the womenfolk of the last-
named mandate wearing white robes and
sky-blue veils.
So that no country would be left out,
even though none of its citizens was
discovered living here, a group of girls
in white gowns, each with a sash to
match the colors in her standard, walked
in single file as the Aryan republics
(microphone annotations disclosed that
their localities were in South America).
As no genuine representatives were
forthcoming from Latvia, India and
Newfoundland, Australians were found
quite willing to get into foreign skins for
the evening. Laurie Rentoul and Peggy
and David Churton followed the shores
of the Baltic State, Marjorie Cardwell
was standard-bearer for India and Pro-
fessor Wadham tried to think of him-
self as a deep-sea fisherman sniffing the
briny air of Newfoundland. Both
Northern Ireland, which followed Wales
(whose feminine members wore gaily-
colored gowns and tall witches’ hats) and
the Irish Free State, walking next to
Knights of Malta, were part of the big
British Empire group. Occupying a chair
of honor on the dais between Victoria and
Britannia was the chieftain of Scotland,
“Big Mac” MacLennan, who looked
fine in his kilts and nothing like his age
—9O years!
Mrs. Eccles Mackay, whose photo-
graph is by Jack Cato, had engagements
every morning last week at the Albert-
street Conservatorium, where her old
teacher, Espinosa, was conducting exami-
nations for the British Ballet Organisa-
tion. Mrs. Mackay helped supervise the
young candidates waiting to perform
their solos, saw that they had their en-
trance cards, that no little dancer was
lost, mislaid or late, and was also ready
to answer questions on the complexities
of various steps. Before her marriage to
a Scottish-Australian medico, Mrs. Mac-
kay passed necessary exams, and became
a member of the Royal Academy of
Dancing. At that time she lived in Bux-
ton, Derbyshire, and had fortnightly les-
sons in Manchester and occasionally in
London from Espinosa.
None of Espinosa’s candidates, least
of all the babies, seemed nervous. They
were all smiles and curls and ribbons in
their hair, their costumes either white or
pale pink, with very full net skirts at-
tached to plain satin bodices. After
taking part in ballets each child danced
alone in the gallery.
There was a slight reversal of pro-
cedure at the marriage of Ruth Timmins
and Lieut. Alan McNicoll. Usually it
is the bride and ’maids who contend with
the disability of carrying ornamental
flowers, but no utility accessories, except,
perhaps, handkerchiefs. But when the
wedding is a naval affair it’s the men
who go without cigarette-cases, wallets.,
etc., for their gorgeous uniforms have
only two small pockets in the linings ol
the coats. Instead of flowers, Ruth’s at-
tendants held green-and-gold evening-
bags, gifts of the ’groom, who is a son
of Brigadier-General McNicoll. Ad-
ministrator of New Guinea, and Mrs.
McNicoll, whose congratulations came
from Government House, Rabaul. The
ceremony was carried out with naval
precision at St. Stephen’s, Brighton. A
telephone call to the bride advised her
of the ’groom’s gold-epauletted arrival in
the vestry, and as her fluffy white tulle
toilette was completed she left home im-
mediately with her father, and was walk-
ing down the aisle a few minutes before
the service was due to commence. ’Maids
in apple-green were Cecily and Prudence
Timmins and Catherine Gordon. . Lieut.
Guy Western was best man, and the
groomsmen were Captain Ron McNicoll
and Lieut. Humphrey Belcher. Lieut.
Clive Hudson, of the H.M.A.S. Australia,
was one of the uniformed ushers. The
wedding was followed by tea at the
Walter Timmins home, Woorinyan.
Later the bride and ’groom had cocktails
at Menzies with their attendants, and
returned after an informal dinner to
Woorinyan for an impromptu young
folks’ dance. Like most Australian naval
brides, Ruth will commence housekeep-
ing in a Sydney flat.
Alan McNicoll is something of a
poet. His book of poems Sea Voices was
published by the printing press in
one of the cruisers. It is regarded by
brother-officers —and others, as well —as
genuine literature. As the author hadn't
met his young bride at the beginning of
his literary career only some of the later
poems are dedicated to her.
Healths were drunk, good-byes were
said and plans were hatched for a wel-
come-home a few months hence, when
the D. H. Dureau couple gave a late-
afternoon party in honor of the Pat
Cahills, who leave for America this week.
Mrs. Dureau’s nut-brown frock, with
narrow plaited pipings of beige chiffon,
was an exception among the dresses, most
of which were black. In this majority
were Mrs. Cahill, her sister Mrs. Jack
Goulding, Mrs. Bob Salmon, Mrs. Hamil-
ton Johnson, Mrs. M. R. Healy and Mrs.
Ernest Heymanson. Mrs. Heymanson
came to the party straight from spending
school holidays at Marysville, where she
became heroine to her children for her
success against proficient youngsters in. a
tennis tournament. Mrs. Healy also had
a word of tennis news, for her daughter
Margaret had got into several semi-finals
in the Glen Iris school-children’s tourna-
ment, an annual May holiday event in
which the standard gets higher every
year. Among other guests were Dorothy
Tutton, in navy-blue, Alison Davidson,
in a brown bowler hat and with a green
kerchief scarf twisted into the neck of
her brown frock, and Martin Cahill and
Bob Salmon, a pair who when they meet
at parties always drain & glass to the
honor of the old brigade in which they
both served during the war. The Hector
Kendalls were also there. Mrs. Kendall
has not yet moved her goods and
chattels into the director’s residence at
the Zoo, where her husband is batching
among several families of possums which
refuse to move out of the old house
which has been their home for genera-
tions. Mr. Kendall gave a practical
demonstration with matches and match-
box of how young urchins recently flicked
lighted matches at the sloth bear, who
has as a result an unbeautiful singed
back. The bear, a matron of nearly
30, suffered no pain, but rolled over and
put the fire out as soon as she smelt it.
In the Broothorn pprtrait is the wife
of the acting-Consul for Norway, Mrs.
J. A. Schreuder, who is wearing the Hal-
lingdal cap and costume in which she
appeared in the International Club
Pageant. As the date of the pageant fell
on Norway’s national day members of
the Norwegian community performed a
special pageant at the conclusion of the
presentation ceremony. Afterwards they
stayed on for the dance and made a
festive meal of supper to the accompani-
ment of Viking songs, the supper served
on long decorated tables. Mrs. Schreuder
is Australian by birth and parentage.
Her husband was also born here; his
father, A. T. Schreuder, is a Norwegian
and was Consul-General for several
years.
Kathleen Deasey, who is one of the
clever daughters of the Rev. Deasey, of
Geelong, has arrived home after two-and-
a-half years’ post-graduate study, for the
latter part of which she was at Newnham
College, Cambridge, reading for the
theology tripos. When she left Melbourne
Miss Deasey was already an M.A. and the
possessor of a diploma of education, so
she was able to complete her theology
course in less than the usual time. Among
six other women she was the only Aus-
tralian. She says that, although not many
of them wish to be ordained, women are
becoming more interested in the study of
theology, which they are taking up for
its educational and intellectual value and
sometimes with a view to doing parish
work. Miss Deasey met some Australian
friends when she visited Poland as one of
the delegates for the International Confer-
ence of University Women. Coming
home through America she broke her
journey to see the workings of some new
experiments in educational systems.
Peter Garran, son of Robert Garran,
the former Commonwealth Solicitor-
General, has commenced his duties in
Yugoslavia as third secretary to the
British Legation in Belgrade. About 18
months ago Peter and Elizabeth Stawell,
of Melbourne, were married in England.
Recently they motored overland across
a snow-covered frozen Europe to their
new home in the Balkans.
Boy pianist Noel Mewton-Wood, who
leaves soon for abroad, will miss his
Sunday hikes with Professor Giblin. Mrs.
A. O. V. Tymms’s daughter Joan is the
only girl admitted to the small band of
“explorers,” most of whom are aged 14
or 15. The professor cooks several
pounds of sausages the evening before
each hike, brings a map and plans the
route to be taken between railway
stations. He is often found boiling a
lunchtime kettle in his office with some
lad who has dropped in from the Univer-
sity High School near by to ask advice
about his career.
Janet Cumbrae Stewart, an Australian
artist who has been very successful
abroad, returned home a few months
ago and is at present holding an exhibi-
tion of her pastels at the Athenaeum. She
is frankly glad to be home, “where the
climate is good, the people cheerful and
there is no perpetual talk of arma-
ments.” Queen Mary bought one of
Miss Stewart’s pastels, and when the
Australian artist was commissioned to
do portraits of Queen Elizabeth’s nephew
Lord Elphinstone and several other very
aristocratic people many of Miss Stew-
art’s friends thought her career would
be that of a society painter. But she is
a very independent person with a de-
lightful sense of humor who prefers
travelling as the spirit moves her and
painting to satisfy her severest critic,
herself.
Travelling alone in Europe Miss Stew-
art avoided express trains and caught
when possible slow “goods,” so that she
could enjoy the scenery. In spite of be-
ing an excellent linguist she has had her
adventures. Some years ago near
Merida, a small town in Spain, near the
borders of Portugal, Miss Stewart found
the peasants very hostile. No one could
be found to carry her bag, and once
stones were thrown at her easel. In
Greece, as a contrast in manners, she re-
members the catastrophe of her stool,
which broke while she was out sketch-
ing. Among all the children who were
watching her nobody laughed. They
helped to pick her up, and someone, un-
asked, procured a chair from a neighbor-
ing cottage.
Newspapers don’t usually tell the world
of a “scoop” 24 hours before they pub-
lish it, but Melbourne “Argus” took that
chance with its Coronation pictures
rushed from London by ’plane. Posters
were showing on Friday morning, but
some praying still had to be done ; at
that time the pictures were accompanying
Capt. P. G. Taylor through dirty flying
weather somewhere over Centralia.
They didn’t reach Melbourne from
Broken Hill until seven that night. Half
of them were then transhipped to an-
other ’plane which immediately left for
Sydney and the “S. M. Herald.” The pic-
tures were good ones —but what sick feel-
ings are going to greet the arrival of the
bills for the special ’planes that got the
prints out in nine days!


THE AUSTRALIAN ART EXHIBITION
THE MACLEOD GALLERY,
252 George Street
(Near Bridge Street)
Latest works by the best Australian Artists
on view and for sale.
Including a Special Exhibition of Oil Paintings,
Water-colors, Pen Drawings and Etchings by
Norman Lindsay.
ADMISSION FREE
LOOK AT THESE AMAZING PRICES.
T***t<w
rri®
cM- •
CHARTRES. LTD.,
Remington Portable (4 bank) ?
Remington Standard
Remington Noiseless ••••••" H A , /in/ _
and a large selection of other makes of typewriters horn io/io/ •
These give you an idea of the bargains Chartres offer. Chartres’
easy terms are available. ’Phone, write or call at Ghaities, and
machine will be delivered to your home or office for free trial toi
Chartres’ service vans cover almost the whole of JS.o.V\.
places you under, no obligation.
FREE CARBON PAPER.
See Chartres’ great display of reconditioned typewriters to-day.
If you cannot call, write for full particulars. And when you buy
your typewriter, be sure to present a clipping of tms
ment. It entitles you to a FREE, generous-sized packet of caibon
paper—enough to last for many months.
Liverpool and Nithsdale Sts., Sydney (’Phone M 6481-
Also at South British Insurance Bldgs., Bolton St.,
—ll lines).
Newcastle.
NORTH Or
TWENTY-EIGHT
“East Point”: Tom Cole, a Territory
buffalo-shooter, is to become a pioneer
in a novel line —he is opening what in
Uncle Sam’s country is called a “dude
ranch.” This will be 160 miles from
Darwin, and, according to the publicity,
the local rivers are infested with croco-
diles, “both sea and fresh-water,” herds
of buffaloes wander round the skyline,
and the sky is black with wild duck and
geese. Short-wave radio is to be installed,
and the best horses in the N.T. are to be
brought along for tourists to ride. Attrac-
tive additions would be a few imported
headhunters and Daintree carpet snakes
and the provision for guests of double-
barrelled shotguns to keep off insurance
canvassers and Japanese sampans.
* * * *
“Georgina”: Add to recent praise of
Williamgoat the fact that his overcoat has
a respectable value. A lot of publicity has
been given to the high prices paid for
carpet wools —Lincoln, Leicester, etc.—
but William is also worth shearing, and
a few long heads in N.Q. are picking up
a bit of money. William may pong a
bit, but nobody has been able to dif-
ferentiate between the smell of a wool
cheque and the one the broker sends
back from the sale of Billy’s overcoat.
♦ ♦ * ♦
“X.T.”: Died quietly and buried in
the rock of Hall’s Creek cemetery last
month, Tom Smithe, one of the oldest
hands in the Kimberleys. He had been
there 45 years, and was a great bushman
—superb in the saddle, a splendid hand
with tools, a fine camel- and donkey-
man and a finished camp cook. Tom
did fairly well in the outback, but much
of his money went to people less fortu-
nate. A few months back he handed a
donation to the A.I.M. hospital at Hall’s
Creek, remarking that in about 100 years
he might need to use the hostel. Then
he went off on a rainy-season truck-trip,
during which it took two months to cover
225 miles, and after that joined a mus-
tering camp for a “holiday.”
* * * *
“S.K.T.”: If there is, as some papers
would have us believe, such a shortage of
iron ore that ships and war mementoes
have to be scrapped for the metal, why
aren’t really valuable deposits exploited?
If anyone likes to pay my exes, and shout
drinks I’ll show them a mountain of
iron, right beside the railway, and sup-
posed to be 90 p.c. pure. Its tonnage is
a few hundred millions or something of
that sort. That is the Black Mountain
at Cloncurry (n.-w. Q.). If that isn t
good enough for ’em, what about the
opal country on the lower Thompson?
1 can show ’em miles and blinkin’ miles
of country there scattered with iron-
stone, which rings like a bell when a
man rides over it, and on which the
lightning plays weird pranks when storms
are about.
•I' >i : $
“Amity”: Commonwealth investiga-
tors who are trying to discover whether
there is room for an Australian fishing
industry should have been off the coast
between Byron Bay (N.S.W.) and Cape
Moreton (Q.) within the past week when
the mullet were coming in. On one day
31 tons was sold in the Brisbane mar-
kets. The mullet is a fish despised only
because it is cheap in season, but for
tastiness the sea variety is hard to beat.
It has few bones, the flesh is white and
abundant, it retains its flavor in canning,
and it is a great oil-producer. Also, it
shoals so thickly and in such convenient
places that fishing for it in season is
economical, and the shoaling is gener-
ally done when the fish carry roe. What
happens to the roes? Latterly tons of
them have been shipped to Egypt.
if: $ Jf:
“C.Q.”: Queensland cotton-growers are
having a rough time, and unless costs of
production can be reduced it is a poor
lookout for the business, though the C.Q.
product has acquired a good spinning
reputation. The solution seems to be
machine-picking and better cotton-farm-
ing. Several picking machines have been
developed in U.S.A., the latest by tw'o
brothers who have given an undertaking
not to market it in the black belts below
the Dixie line, where there is a huge,
poorly-paid population of colored
workers. In Australia the machine might
be the salvation of the industry, since
the cost of picking, compared with that
of other countries, is prohibitive. If
American machines are not suitable, it
should not be beyond the genius of Aus-
tralian inventors to design one for local
conditions. And the Commdnwealth
Government, which last year showed
concern for Lancashire cotton-spinners,
might begin to show concern for the de-
“Now what about a little washing-up , Jacky?”
“Couldn't eat another thing, thanks, missus. Full as a goog already .”
velopment of an Australian spinning
industry.
“Dick Tafone”: The Queensland Aero
Club has recently been surprised to learn,
on the authority of the. Controller of
Civil Aviation, that with 5760 hours
for 1936 it is far ahead, in actual flying
time, of any other aero club in the
Empire. The runner-up is the Brook-
lands (Eng.) Aero Club with 3806 hours.
The Queensland club is turning out
trained aviators at the rate of more than
one per week, and has a total of 265
since L. J. Brain started the instructional
school in 1927. C. W. A. Scott followed
him, and the high standard set by these
two has not been allowed to deteriorate.
Q.A.C. graduates are already arriving in
the front rank as flyers and instructors.
Captain Crowther, of the Brisbane-
Singapore section of the Empire airmail
route, is one of them, as is S. K. Howard,
\\ho has done valuable work in training
N.Q. pilots. Eight Moths and a Hornet
Moth constitute the club’s fleet, with a
Miles Falcon on order.
"Australia Jane's" Budget
Dr. J. V. Duhig, whose play “Wel-
come Home” was produced by a London
Repertory society during his recent visit
to England, produced it again in Bris-
bane. The Students’ Theatre Society
staged it to a packed house.
James Blair, who celebrated his sixty-
sixth birthday on May 16, had a supper
party in the evening, when he and his
lady entertained a group of old friends.
Next day his swearing-in as Lieutenant-
Governor took place. Coronation colors
were noticeable among the womenfolk,
and furs and posies of natural flowers
seemed universal. It was a colorful cere-
mony, and was followed by numerous
more or less formal teas and luncheons.
Lieutenant-Governor Blair’s first offi-
cial act was to open the exhibition of the
Society of Artists at Parbury House —
the first exhibition the society has held
in Brisbane. It is to be hoped the show
will be made, if not an annual, at least
a regular affair, for it is seldom that Bris-
bane folk have an opportunity of com-
paring the works of outstanding wielders
of the brush and the sculping and etch-
ing topnotchers.
Will Ashton has some lovely Spanish
studies, full of color and light, and Nor-
man Carter’s portraits almost breathe.
John Longstaff’s sketch of Theodore
Fink is lifelike, and there are lovely
Gruner landscapes. Vida Lahey has a
study of hibiscus and gerberas, and
Lloyd Rees, whose work has taken an
added scope and power since the days
when, a curly-headed youth, he ob-
structed Brisbane traffic in order to cap-
ture some vista that had taken his fancy,
has four pictures. Daphne Mayo, sculp-
tress, is represented by a head—one of
the best things this brilliant girl has ever
accomplished.
Senator Gordon Brown and his wife
sprang a surprise on the guests invited to
attend a birthday party, in honor of then-
daughter Mabs. Mabs arrived in full
bridal panoply to the party, having been
married at seven o’clock that evening in
St. Ann’s Presbyterian Church to Archi-
bald Grayson Wood, of Murwillumbah
(N.S.W.). Only the families attended the
actual ceremony, and Miss D. Hook was
bridesmaid.
There was a huge crowd in St. John’s
Cathedral for the wedding of Agnes
Jessie Philp, eldest daughter of the R. C:
Philps, of Indooroopilly, and grand-
daughter of the Philp who was Premier,
to Dr. Beresford Butcher, of Eidsvold.
Ivory satin cut on classical lines decked the
bride, and the long train, which fell from
the waist, flared to a fantail effect. A
coronet of orange-blossoms and silver
leaves caught the short tulle veil. Betty
and Audrey Philp and Ena Butcher, the
’maids, wore early-Victorian frocks of
floral organdie, black mittens and poke
bonnets, and carried posies of carnations,
forget-me-nots, roses and narcissus.
The Women’s University Club held its
annual dance in the main hall of the
Uni., and Betty Stephens, the president,
worked overtime welcoming the huge
roll-up of guests. Betty wore old-gold
lace and satin, and vice-president Joan
Chadwick, in dusky pink, and Sheila
Thompson, the secretary, all in scarlet,
helped her do the job. Lots of the pro-
fessors and their wives went along.
Five of Brisbane’s young lovelies are
to be the hostesses at a private dance
at the Belle Vue on June I—Edna1 —Edna
Buchanan, Nest Fancespeare, Lenore
Fihelly, Betty Real and Edna Keane.
Over 100 women bowlers came from
N. S. Wales for the tournament held
under the auspices of the Queensland
Ladies’ Bowling Association, of which
Mrs. H. E. Twamley has been president
since it was formed in 1929. The men’s
clubs lent their greens for play, and
various outings were, arranged for the
visitors, including a trip up river to Lone
Pine and a motor trip over the Horni-
brook Highway to Redcliffe.
Heather, the charming daughter of
the William Arnotts, of Woollahra
(N.S.W), who has been spending a long
holiday in Brisbane with her sister, Mrs.
C. R. Christmas, is engaged to Alexander
Cook, son of the A. A. Cooks, of Drum-
moyne (N.S.W.). The pair are to be
married early next year, and will make
their home in Brisbane.
Heather Provan, daughter of the John
Provans, of Toowoomba, is engaged to
R. C. Brownlie Henderson, of Ban-
gamba, Palardo, son of J. C. Brownlie
Henderson, for many years Queensland’s
Government Analyst.
Margaret Dash and Justin McCarthy,
guests of honor at a supper dance at the
Belle Vue, given by Lillias, Doris and
Leila Cunningham, took home with them
a case of fruit-knives and -forks, to add
to their rapidly growing pile of wedding
presents. The marriage day is set for
May 27.
Consul for France R. E. Nixon Smith
and his wife gave a big party in honor
of M. Paul Suzor, Consul-General, who
broke his journey to N. Queensland,
whither he is bound with his small son
Pierre. Consular representatives and
their wives were present in full force.
Mrs. Nixon Smith, in blackberry wool
and furs, received the guests.
W. N. Harrison, who has been
appointed a part-time lecturer and tutor
in law at the Uni., hails from Charters
Towers. He got his B.A. at Queensland
Uni., was Rhodes scholar for 1925, held
the Queensland University Blue for
athletics in 1924 and 1925, and was an
Oxford blue in ’27, ’2B and ’29.
The Lady Mayoress’s Ball in aid of
the Children’s Playground, Creche and
Kindergarten Association, District Nurs-
ing Association and .Social Service League
was a huge success. The debutantes were
Clare and May Williams, Peggy Holmes,
Enid Stoker, Joan Tritton, Mary Burke
and Nea Barber, who were presented to
the Lieutenant-Governor and his lady by
the Lady Mayoress. The decorations
were all in accordance with Coronation
Week. The Blair lady was in gold satin,
and the Lady Mayoress in black.


'What do they say
of your smile?
• -■
m
' i
If you use Calvert’s, the gleaming whiteness
of your teeth will be the admiration of all
your friends. All dentifrices contain some
powder that’s'what does the cleaning, but
Calvert’s is ALL POWDER. That’s why
it keeps your mouth so fresh and healthy and
gives such sparkling brilliance to your smile.
F. C. Calvert & Co., Ltd., England.
CALVERT’S
carbolic TOOTH POWDER
HE WAS AS ROUND
AS A BARREL
Protruding Stomach Made
Him Look Deformed.
Excess fat is unhealthy and unpleasant
—for both men and women. It should
be got rid of whenever it appears,
whether early in life or late. This man,
for all his three score years and ten.
determined to reduce his weight. Read
how he succeeded:
“A few years ago I felt I was almost
finished. I was as round as a barrel, for
I am not very tall, and with my pro-
truding stomach I looked deformed. My
weight was 15 stone 10 lbs., and on top
of it all I suffered so badly with rheu-
matism that I was no longer able to
work. I started taking Kruschen Salts,
and now both rheumatism and fat have
disappeared. My weight is now 12 stone
8 lbs. I can dig my garden and do my
own work in spite of my 70 years.”—
V.R.
The six salts in Kruschen assist the
internal organs to throw off each day
the wastage and poisons that encumber
the system. Then, little by little, that
ugly l’at disappears.
THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Thursday
Is the most popular 68-
page woman’s paper pub-
lished in the Common-
wealth. It features every-
thing a woman ought to
know. Once you read it
you will never be without
it. Its up-to-date weekly
pattern is free for the
asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co.
252 George Street, Sydney.
THE NATIONAL BANK
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.
(Incorporated in Victoria.)
HEAD OFFICE: 271-279 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE, C.l,
AUSTRALIA.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS.
Sir James A. M. Elder, K.8.E., Chairman. Hon. Sir Frank G. Clarke, K.8.E.,
M.L.C., Vice-Chairman. T. C. Alston. General Sir Henry Chauvel, G.C.M.G.,
K.C.B. H. G. Darling. D. York Syme. Sir Ernest H. Wreford.
Chief Manager: L. J. McConnan. Chief Inspector: E. J. Osborne.
Auditors: John Bishop (F.C.A. Aust.), S. J. Warnock (F.C.A. Aust.).
BOARDS OF ADVICE.
LONDON.—The Right Hon. Lord Inverforth, P.C., Chairman; Sir James
Leigh-Wood, K.8.E., C. 8., C.M.G.; The Right Hon. Lord Luke of
Pavenham, K.B.E.
BRISBANE.—Sir Edward H. Macartney, Chairman; Sir William Glasgow,
K.C.8., C.M.G., D. 5.0., V.D.; De Burgh B. B. Persse.
SYDNEY.—Sir Colin Stephen, Chairman; Lieut.-Col. the Hon. T. A. J.
Playfair, D. 5.0., 0.8. E., V.D., M.L.C.; Hunter White.
433 Offices and Branches in Australia, and Agents throughout' the World.
London Office: 7 Lothbury, E.C.2. Sub-branch: Australia House, Strand.
EXTRACTS FROM BALANCE SHEET DATED 31st MARCH, 1937.
LIABILITIES.
Proprietors’ Capital—
-200,000 £lO shares,
fully paid . .£2,000,000
600,000 £8 shares, paid
to £5 per share . . 3,000,000
£5,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund (used in the business) . . 3,000,000 0 0
Exchange Adjustment Reserve (used in
the business) . . 300,000 0 0
Profit and Loss 307,539 19 5
Total Shareholders’ Funds . . . . . . . . £8,607,539 19 5
Customers’ Deposits and other accounts . . . . . . 42,220,269 5 I
Other Liabilities . . . . . . . . . . . . 671,445 1 10
Total £5 1,499,254 1 2
ASSETS.
Coin, Australian Notes, Balances at other Banks, Cheques
and Bills in Transitu, Government and Municipal
Stocks and Bonds and other Liquid Assets . .
Advances to Customers and Bills Discounted . .
Bank Premises, other Real Estate, etc.
Total . .
The Statutory Declaration made by the Chief Manager, the Auditors
Report and Certificate, and the Statutory Certificate signed by two Directors
appear on the original Balance Sheet, and are printed in the Annual Report,
a copy of which has been posted to each Shareholder.
Dividend for the year is at the rate of five and three-quarters per cent,
per annum.
..£17,122,285 10 5
. . 33,060,786 6 0
. . 1,316,182 10 9
• .£51,499,254 7 2
THE ORDINARY GENERAL MEETING of Shareholders will be held at
the Head Office of the Bank, on Wednesday, the 26th day of MAY, 1937,
at 1 1.30 a.m.
THE LITTLE SISTERS.
WESTRALIA.
Honors were easy between sexes in the
gav dressing movement at the Naval and
Military Club Ball. All the men eligible
for uniform were rigged in their brightest
blues and scarlets, and the mufti-wearers
were liberally decorated with beribboned
medals. Womenfolk aired their very
best, adding individual touches to their
coiffures. As a couple, the Charles
Courtneys attracted most attention, he
with his snugly-fitting Cameron High-
lander kilt, and she with layers of misty-
blue net blown into off-the-shoulder,
tight-waist period style. Colonel and
Mrs. Margolin (Parma violets bloomed
at the neck of her white floral lacquered
satins) escorted the half-dozen honored
guests to box seats, where the v.-r. lady’s
gown of trained purple ninon with
epaulette sleeves was close to Mrs.
Bessel-Browne’s black chenille georg-
ettes. Major Lindsay Male’s svelte other
half studded her white flat crepes with
glittering rainbow jewels; Mrs. Athol
Hobbs waxed a leafy design on her
heavy black taffetas, and Mrs. John Fitz-
hardinge’s trousseau frock of black
silvered crepe ran to gold and red
diagonal stripes. Visiting artists Benno
Moiseiwitsch and Marie Bremner helped
swell the strongest rally yet seen at an
N. and M. dance.
Floodlights threw the buildings o£ St
George's College into handsome relief
when members forsook their studies to
“fable
gardens) and the flag of St. George over
the piano were, wisely, the only decora-
tions in the ballroom, where richly-
panelled walls reflected the color scheme
of the gyrating throng. Mrs. Whitfeld’s
cardinal-red laces were at the Vice-Chan-
cellor’s elbow, Mrs. J. Shearer’s soft pink
ninons wafted over charmeuse and Mrs.
B. L. Serventy combined blue and silver
in her brocaded satin. Elizabeth Fair-
bridge shot coppery-red taffetas with
blue, Dorothy Jolly’s blue-spotted silk
nets were girt with taffeta ruchings, Betty
Ellis topped black-and-white check taf-
feta with a Peter Pan collar, and Mar-
jorie Chappie girdled black velvet with
steel beads
Jean, second daughter of the J. F.
Bechers, of Tweediana, Harvey, chose
the home-town church for her marriage
to John Round-Turner. Dark-red roses
made a splash of color against her con-
ventional ivory satins, which were
clouded by a veil of silk net lent by Mrs.
E. B. Johnston. Matron of honor Mrs.
John Parker and ’maid Betty Sherwood
matched each other with their luminous
moon-blue velvets, silver girdles and lame
haloes, but contrasted their bouquets, the
one carrying pink and the other gold
I'OSCS
To Betty Gravenall went the honor of
co-operating with Benno Moiseiwitsch in
his additional recital in Perth. With in-
sufficient time for an orchestra to re-
hearse Tschaikowsky’s B Flat Minor
Concerto, the young pianist was invited
to play the orchestral part on a second
piano. Her appearance at His Majesty’s
in white lame-striped crepe with square-
cut, tight-fitting bodice and flared skirt,
and her performance of the part, were
warmly applauded. Besides her musical
skill Betty has a B.Sc. (Hons.) degree to
her credit and a conversational and
academic knowledge of five languages.
Further honors for W.A. graduates
have come the way of Grace Clarke, B.A.
(Hons.), B.Sc., Dip. Ed., who has been
recommended by her examiners for the
degree of Doctor of Philosophy (in psy-
chology) of the University of London.
While collecting her string of letters Miss
Clarke wrote a report on “Some Char-
acter Traits of Delinquent Children in
Terms of Perseveration Factor” which
has been accepted for publication. After
two years’ research work in London as
a Hackett student, she returned to Perth
to take up her present position of assist-
ant-lecturer in psychology at the local
seat of learning.
Mrs. Esmond George, wife of the
director of the Repertory Club and until
recently editor of the women’s section
of the Adelaide “Advertiser,” was given
a brace of welcomes on her arrival in
Perth. The Rep. Club put on the first,
with president Rabbi Freedman, chair-
man H. S. Bickford and the ladies’ house
committee doing the honors, and the
Women Writers welcomed her with a
luncheon at the Wattle, where Mrs.
Geoffrey Drake-Brockman presided.
Latest recruits to the ranks of the be-
trothed are Eileen, the Swanbourne M.
C. Coolings’ ewe-lamb, and Keith Suther-
land, of Mortlock, Grass Valley.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
The Aero Club ball was at the Palais
Royal, with club president Murray Fow-
ler and his wife as host and hostess. Mrs.
Murray Fowler’s white chiffon was
moulded to the figure, and a scarf effect
was draped on the bodice ; Mrs. Brian
Swift was in a sapphire-blue satin
beaute, the skirt draped ; Mrs. lan Hay-
ward chose a trained gown of Parma
violet; Mrs. Dudley Turner’s black
chiffon was embroidered with rings of
silver; Mrs. Harry Nott, in black,
brought Dorothy, refulgent in opalescent
sequins ; Mrs. Louis McCubbin, in black
chiffon velvet, was accompanied by
daughter Pat Spiers Jackson, in gold
tissue.
Vivienne, daughter of the Philip S.
Dixons, of Glenelg, struck a pouring wet
night for her marriage to John Dudley
Searcy, and in the brief rush across the
pavement from the car to the Wentworth
her bridal veil was reduced to pulp. The
bride’s white satin was cut on princess
lines and merged into a train. ’Maids
Joan Dixon, Peggy Searcy, Gwenyth
Burford and Joan Hanson wore haloes of
green velvet leaves to match their lace
frocks.
At the Outback Ball in the Centennial
Hall, Wayville, it was announced that
close on £l5OO had been raised for the
Flying Sister Fund by a cheque drive.
Onlookers were more numerous than
dancers, but all enjoyed the buffet
supper. Electric decorations (left over
from the Coronation Ball) were brilliant,
and outback touches were supplied by
sheaves of wheat stacked round the band-
stand in the main hall and images of
sheep and cows on the stage. The sheep
were considerably larger than the cows,
but that’s a trifle. The pastoral predilec-
tion was apparent, too, in a juvenile
ballet arranged by Trixie Wilson —“Little
80-peep and Her Sheep”—in which the
baa-lambs wore real sheepskins. The
Governor and Lady Dugan arrived at
9.30 p.m. and were received by the Bony-
thon and Ritchie ladies, Mrs. Leal, Adel-
aide Miethke and Phebe Watson. Lady
Dugan was gowned in mist-blue satin
beaute merging into a train and worn
with a cloak of white shaved ermine
trimmed with white fox fur —two skins
forming the collar, with the heads at
the back. The Bonython lady’s black
delustred satin was cut on princess lines,
and the Ritchie lady chose white-and-
royal-blue flowered Liberty silk. Army
nurses were present in full force, a re-
union for many who had not met for
years.
Mrs. H. J. Lipman was hostess at a
party given in honor of Jean Wilson, now
Mrs. Cecil Davies. The guests were all
tennis enthusiasts.
Gold was the keynote of the smart
wedding at St. Peter’s, Glenelg, of
Russell, only son of the G. H.
K. Vardons, of Malvern, and Bessie
Ellen, only child of the Allan Sheidows,
of Perry Barr, O’Halloran Hill. The
bride’s trained gown of magnolia satin
beaute was cut on diagonal lines, with
cowl neck and long-fitting sleeves. Her
Peter Pan collar was edged with orange-
blossom. Bridesmaid Thelma Warren
was frocked in golden cloque flaring
from the hips, and three gold roses
adorned the front of her gold pixie hat.
Flower-girls Mary Warren and Kathleen
Sheidow were in gold-toned satin, with
close-fitting caps of gold tulle, and they
carried gold baskets of autumn flowers.
TASMANIA.
The ball in aid of the R.S.S.I.L.A. at
the City Hall was a brilliant affair, with
about 700 dancers and with balconies
crammed with onlookers. Lady Clark
was a handsome figure in silver and
mauve lame, with a cluster of lovely
hand-made flowers on the bodice. The
Mayoress chose a deep pink with a gold
thread in it. Mrs. D. C. McLaren, the
organiser, danced in magnolia-tinted
ripple crepe with long scarf ends of
green and red georgette. Six. debs, were
presented to his Ex. and Lady Clark—
Barbara Martin, Betty O’Reilly, Marie
Belstead, Marjorie Grant, Winifred
Batchelor and Joyce Round.
A ball at the Albert Hall, Launceston,
had period dress as its leading feature.
“Period” covered a vague space of time,
though the prevailing note was Georgian.
Gold-colored candles under gold shades
figured in the decorations. The Gov-
ernor and Lady Clark were met at the
entrance by Mrs. Keverell Mclntyre,
president of the ball committee, and Dr.
Mclntyre, the hon. sec., Mrs. F. G.
Dougharty and A. Wardlaw, M.L.C.
Lady Clark was in deep-blue velvet. The
“Royal Procession” was impressive, with
all the Georges and their notabilities
represented very faithfully.
The J. J. Gatenbys stayed in the south
for a few days before sailing for M.L.
Friends entertained Mrs. Gatenby at the
Queen Mary Club. Her heavy black
satin had a gold thread woven through
it and big sleeves.
Major and Mrs. John Clarke, with
their small infant, have gone back to
Burma, leaving their elder child at
school in the Speck. Rupert Lyons fare-
welled them at a jolly little dance at the
Continental, and Mrs. Alan Cameron
hostessed a luncheon party for Mrs.
Clarke at the Queen Mary Club.
Mary Balfe, has set off to meet her
fiance at Durban, staying a while on the
way with relatives in Sydney. The
Repertory Soc. farewelled her with cock-
tails at the Imperial, Mrs. R. B. Richard
being chief organiser. The fiance is John
Fletcher ; he hails from Edinbro’.


Australia 1 s Leading Financial Journal.
May Issue Now on Sale.
GOLD—DOLLARS—STERLING
OUTLOOK FOR COMMODITY PRICES
AUSTRALIAN PROSPECTS
PRICE 2/- PER COPY. OR £11216 PER ANNUM POSTED.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., 252 George Street, Sydney, and all States.
Commences August 29, 1937.
Comprising General Samples Fairs,
Textiles, Sports Goods, Engineering
and Great Building Fairs.
Buy in this Market
for profitable reselling
So favourable are prices at Leipzig Fair that
Australian buyers of overseas goods are not
only assured of advantageous resale profits, but
can afford to pass the benefit to their cus-
tomers. It will pay YOU to join the thousands
of international buyers who secure their trading
requirements from this World Market.
LEIPZIG
International
Industries
FAIR
GERMANY.
Information (including Travel Marks and Aski Trading
Marks) available of LARS G. BRUNDAHL, Commis-
sioner in Australia for the Leipzig Internationa]
Industries Fair, Challis House, Martin Place, G.P.O.
Box 3127 P, Sydney; C. N. KEPPEL, Temple Court,
422 Collins Street, G.P.O. Box 20245. Melbourne;
11. C. ITTERS'HAOEN, Shenton Park, IV. Australia.
The Long White cloud
More Political Interest
One of Maoriland Labor’s major and
unacknowledged achievements has been
the infusion of new vitality into nearly
every aspect of the Dominion’s political
life. Because Labor measures hurried
into being in the last 18 months have
touched the pockets or working condi-
tions of most Maorilanders, the word
“politics” has assumed a practical signi-
ficance which will be the deciding factor
of the 1938 election.
On the Savage side of the fence there
has been a record growth in union mem-
bership ; from 85,000 in January, 1936,
the number of unionists has increased
to nearly 200,000. But this does not
necessarily mean a corresponding in-
crease in the Labor vote. A compulsory
membership clause in the Industrial Con-
ciliation and Arbitration Act has helped
to swell the total, as well as to convince
more people that “politics” is not neces-
sarily a synonym for nebulous platitudes.
Strong efforts to turn this newly awak-
ened interest against Labor are being
made by Chambers of Commerce, whose
thoughtfully compiled criticisms arc
being grabbed by the daily newspapers.
Touchy Labor interests, quick to charge
the dailies with political bias, overlook
the fact that Ministerial replies are in-
variably given a good gallop by the same
papers.
But, just as most Australians dis-
regarded the welter of “yes” propaganda
at the last referendum, Maorilanders will
make up their own minds in the 1938
election booths. Personal experience of
the Labor regime and a judgment sharp-
ened by contact with different Labor
laws will override propaganda influences
of one side or the other. Maoriland has
that unexpected gift to add to its Labor
bequests.
“Kiwit”: Two scenic highways are
being completed in the South Island
mountains, one cutting from Canterbury
over the Southern Alps to the West Coast
by way of Lewis Pass, and the other
connecting the Eglinton-Hollyford road
with Milford in Southland’s fiord coun-
try. It was at the tunnel-mouth below
Homer Saddle on the Southland high-
way that an early avalanche recently
killed two more men before the job was
closed down for the winter. Seasonal
difficulties are also delaying work on the
Lewis Pass crossing, but the first car is
expected to get through before the end
of June. Scenery is incidental to this
project, as the completed highway will
bring the north part of the West Coast
—the Buller, Murchison and Nelson dis-
tricts—within easier reach of Canterbury
centres east of the Alps. While provid-
ing access for settlers at present almost
isolated from Invercargill and cities on
the east coast, the Southland fiord road
will be one of Maoriland’s chief attrac-
tions for summer sightseers who wish to
see that mountainous corner by land.
* * * *
‘Kore.ro”: Not content with its local
fights, the Maoriland Labor party's
official weekly recently cut its £25,000
self-expansion” appeal down to a bare
five-column spread and made space for
a crack at Australia’s treatment of poli-
tical news from the Savage side of the
Tasman. It has found that “little favor-
able information” is published about
Maoriland by Australian newspapers and
says that Minister of Labor Armstrong
was “besieged” at different Australian
ports for news of “what is really hap-
pening in New Zealand.” Minister Arm-
strong was never “besieged,” but he was
well treated by newspapers in Sydney,
Melbourne, Adelaide and Perth. More-
over, the dozen or so Australian poli-
ticians who have recently visited Maori-
land gave the more notable achievements
of the Savage Government excellent press
airings in nearly every State capital.
“Motu ’: Various forms of child en-
dowment have been adopted in Germany
and Italy to boost school rolls showing
declines similar to that noted by “South-
land” (B. 19/5/’37). Maorilanders and
Australians have lately heard mention
of the same method of checking falling
birthrates. While inspecting houses being
built by the Maoriland Government,
Minister of Works Semple suggested that
a bonus for the parents of the first twins
born in the new homes “might help to
check the fall in the. birthrate in New
Zealand.” The Australian suggestion
came from the more serious atmosphere
"Let's sneak on the tourist boat , Lulu. We Wouldn't be noticed among
such a crowd."
of the Full Arbitration Court, now hear-
ing the Melbourne representations of 52
unions seeking an increased basic wage.
Young W. B. Reddaway, Melbourne Uni-
versity research fellow in economics,
claimed that the national income should
be distributed to discourage boom con-
ditions, but he suggested that child en-
dowment would be a better method than
a general increase in wages. The Savage
Government has already increased
Maoriland wages, but, if Minister Semple
were serious, that would not prevent it
from instituting some child-endowment
system.
v V
“M.”: Radio research in Maoriland is
no longer to lag behind the work of other
countries ; the Labor Ministry has ap-
proved of the appointment of a research
committee on lines similar to those
recommended by the science congress at
Auckland in January. Activities of the
different university colleges, the Broad-
casting, Post and Telegraph and Defence
services—particularly aviation —are to be
co-ordinated by the committee, which
will also maintain contact with other
Empire research organisations. Condi-
tions governing the propagation of radio
waves, both at the earth’s surface and in
the upper air, vary in different parts of
the world, and must be studied locally ;
but that will not prevent the Maoriland
committee from working in liaison with
the Australian Radio Research Board. It
has been estimated that the Maoriland
work will cost about £2500 a year —a
fairly cheap insurance expenditure on
peace-time developments that might be
the means of averting deliberate inter-
ference with communications during any
future international crisis.
* * * *
“D.N.”: Deer are not the only prob-
lem facing South Island sheepmen with
runs on the slopes of the Southern Alps
(B. 19/5/’37). The. Canterbury Sheep
Owners’ Union has asked the Savage
Government to inquire into conditions
threatening the abandonment of large
highland grazing areas. Higher working
costs, flock losses through snow and the
increase ot such pests as deer are all con-
tributing to the difficulties of high-coun-
try runholders whose margins between
costs and gross returns have been narrow
over a period of years. Back-country
runs in the hills, of Marlborough, Otago
and Southland are in the same position as
those in Canterbury, and there is a
general South Island feeling that, if such
country is to be kept in production,
Crown lessees will need more sym-
pathetic consideration. This is one of
the unexpected results of the higher costs
and mounting taxes that have followed
the enforcement of Labor’s numerous
Statute Book entries. The problem is a
serious one because, if many such hold-
ings are deserted, it will take years to
restock them efficiently ; only flocks bred
in the uplands can thrive on that class of
country.
* =!= * *
“Kohi”: Before the opening of Maori-
land’s annual shooting season dozens of
wily shots note with satisfaction the
number of ducks on different hill-locked
lakes, but, after crawling round in the
pre-dawn darkness of the “opening,” they
invariably discover that the just-as-wily
ducks have departed for the safer waters
of various sanctuaries. A few dawn shots
and off go the rest of the birds. For
years some sportsmen have maintained
that many ducks make for the sea when
scared from their lakes by May 1 fusil-
lades, so this year pilots of Union Air-
ways machines flying the Palmerston
North-Dunedin route were asked to keep
a lookout. They reported that, within a
day of the opening of the season, hun-
dreds of ducks were seen on waves four
to six miles offshore.
* * * *
“Mak”: When a pet kangaroo strayed
into a Melbourne suburban garden the
other day the excited 44-year-old boy
who discovered it informed his mother
that a “big grey dog” was in the garden.
A “funny dog” was how a Hawera (M.L.)
boy of about the same age described a
find he made in his backyard in the
early 1920’5. The M.L. mother went on
with her work, but the lad, running in
and out of the house, prattled on about
the “funny dog” until she went to the
back door, where she managed one good
scream before the sight of her son calmly
walking round a lion was too much for
her. The “funny dog” was a rather
mangy Leo which had escaped that
morning from a circus travelling through
.South Taranaki. Dozing in the sun, it
had suffered the small boy’s close and
frequent inspections without batting a
lazy eye; the mother’s sharp scream sent
it growling over the back fence. its
liberty ended later in the day, but the
small boy’s description gave a Maoriland
newspaperman, now an important and
bulky sub-editor, a great story in a dis-
trict where even fair ones were at a
premium.
❖ * * *
“McL.”: “D.N.” (B. 12/5/’37) is
wrong when he claims that Arthur Dob-
son was the. discoverer of the first pass
across the Southern Alps. That honor
belongs to one Harper, who over six
years earlier, in 1857, came on the pass
which now bears his name and which
lies to the north of Arthur’s Pass. By
this means he crossed from the head-
waters of the Hurunui to those, of the
Teremakau and so to the West Coast.
Incidentally, this was the regular overland
route to the coast for some years after
the discovery of gold ; when Haast went
to the West Coast in 1865 he travelled
via Harper’s Pass and wrote that it was
used by many of the diggers.
* * * *
“Senex”: With the approach of the
.Springbok tour of Maoriland super-
stitious folk are busy. They recall that
the first Test match played between
these countries ended in favor of the
All-Blacks by 13 to 8. The score was
again 13-8 when Springboks and All-
Blacks clashed last time. In the first
Test in Africa during the 1928 series
Bennie Osier kicked 13 points; and 13
tries have been scored in the series of
matches to date.


RADIO NEWS.
DON B. KNOCK'S PAGES.
Sirufer I.F.T. Specifications.
Since the Sirufer Haspelkern (cross
core) reached the Australian market in-
creasing numbers of receivers and coil
kits utilising this material have appeared.
The coil kits particularly are of interest
to the constructor.
Data for R.F. coils wound on this ma-
terial have appeared in a previous issue.
One big advantage of these Sirufer cores
is that the former is of such a nature as
to permit easy hand-winding of the coils.
The former surrounding the core itself is
in two halves, with three slots for wind-
ing. Although the former looks as if
made from ordinary celluloid, the ma-
terial is a much higher grade of R.F. in-
sulation known as Hypertrolitul.
There are reasons why the constructor
with experimental ideas might prefer to
try making up his own intermediate fre-
quency transformers, chief of which is
that, so far, no commercially-made
465 kc. variable selectivity intermediate
transformers on Sirufer have put in an
appearance. Such I.F.Ts. would have
their rightful place in amateur band
superhets. They are invaluable in such
receivers as the Ideal Amateur Superhet
and the more recent Ultra-Gainer of the
Jones 1937 Handbook.
From Ducon Condenser Pty., of Water-
loo (N.S.W.), agents for Sirufer cores,
comes information on the winding details
for 462.5 kc. intermediates on Sirufer. The
agents promise to give further particu-
lars, dealing with R.F. coils and alterna-
Figure 1.
tive types of I.F.Ts., in the near future.
This will be dealt with as it becomes
available.
As is now well-known, the Sirufer core
is of the variable permeability kind. It
has a trimming screw of the same ma-
terial in the core centre, making it pos-
sible to dispense with mica compression
or air-type variable trimmers, and to use
an appropriate fixed capacity to peak the
L/C ratio, making final adjustments on
the screws.
For an intermediate frequency of
462.5 kc., using the Haspelkern Sirufer
core, the general arrangement of the
transformer is shown in ‘Fig. 3. The
assembly is simple, and the dimensions
of the mounting strips in Fig. 1 are shown
Figure 2.
as two alternatives. Both these arrange-
ments give a fixed coupling, but it would
not be at all difficult to modify either of
these mountings for variable selectivity
control.
The fixed capacities across the coils are
.00025 Chanex ceramic mica condensers
and the number of turns on each core is
35, plus 35, plus 36. The wire used is
9/41 Litz, and with this the Q of a coil
completed is 200 at 462.5 kc. The turns
in the third slot (36) are adjusted to
match the particular valve of the tuning
condenser selected. It is most essential
that this matching process be accurately
carried out, with the trimming core in
the centre of its travel, or as nearly so as
possible, so that sufficient variation is
available when the assembly has to be
lined up in a receiver.
There should be no trouble if these
precautions are observed: The coils are
mounted, by means of their mounting
screws, on bakelite strips as in Fig. 1. The
two alternatives are shown to suit dif-
ferent sizes of shields. The coils are
mounted so that they are co-planar.
Centre to centre dimension is not impor-
tant with this particular type of assembly.
Method of Connection.
The finish of each winding (outers)
connects to the plate and grid respectively
or, in the case of final stage assemblies,
diode connection takes the place of grid.
Figure 3.
The inner
(start) of the pri-
mary is con-
nected to the
H.T. supply
voltage. The
inner of the
secondary is con-
nected to the in-
side end of a
coupling winding
which is wound
in the first (start-
ing) slot of the
primary before
the primary is
commenced.
Method of con-
necting this coup-
ling winding is
i m p ortant,
as, if it is
reversed,the
band width is
greatly increased
and an appreci-
able decrease in
stage gain occurs. Turns on the coupling
winding may be varied from a single
turn up to 10 turns with results which
show an appreciable difference in selec-
tivity but no large variations in stage
gain. One and a half coupling turns give
the best performance. Fig. 2 gives the
diagram of connections. The size of the
transformer shield can has no very great
influence on performance, and practically
no difference is observed between a
square or a 2jin. round can.
Receivers made up with Sirufer I.FTs.
of the. type described give excellent
results. Frequency drift is effectively
eliminated and such I.F.Ts. are not
affected by high tropical humidity. Care
must be taken in attaching the 9/41 Litz
wire to the solder lugs and condensers.
When completed the assemblies should
be thoroughly dried and covered with a
good wax.
D.C.P.L.
Radio Comment.
“Enno”: Some English radio journals
refer to Australian broadcasting stations
as VK3LO or VK2BL. For the benefit of
overseas readers, it may be stated that
the prefix VK applies only to experi-
mental stations.
* * * *
“Wireless Retailer and Broadcaster”
(Eng.) estimates that, if full ad-
vantage were taken of the facilities of
the Marconi-E.M.I. television transmitter
in London, 2,000,000 homes could be
supplied with television reception. This
figure is based on the service area of 25
miles around London.
v * X *
“M.F.’’: National stations to be estab-
lished will probably have a power of
10 kilowatts, considerably higher than
that of the existing stations. 2FC Sydney
will be replaced by a station at Liver-
pool, 3LO by a station on a new site 10
miles from Melbourne. Brisbane will
be given an additional station, which,
with 4QG, will provide listeners with a
choice of programmes from the national
service.
* * * *
“M.F.”: Radio receivers will hence-
forth be part of the educational equip-
ment of 200 Catholic schools in the Syd-
ney metropolitan area. It is intended to
use the educational programmes already
broadcast from the national stations ; in
addition, lectures will be given through
station 2SM. Receivers are. portable so
that they can be carried in and out of
classrooms as required. The use of radio
in schools is gradually becoming more
general.
Radio Constructors.
A limited number of issues
of “Australian Radio News”
(formerly published by “The Bulle-
tin”) is available at “The Bulletin”
office. 1933 and 1934 issues con-
tain a large amount of useful short-
wave and broadcast constructional
articles. Price 3d. per copy. Post-
age included.
Amateur Chatter.
A feature of DX-hunting on 20 metres,
whether by telephony or telegraphy, is
the number of contacts missed owing
to the length of time necessary to comb
the band completely. Some years ago
a CQ at any frequency between 14,000
and 14,400 kc. would elicit a response
from any part of the band. With the
vast number of amateurs using the band.
and the growth
of the American
’phone band in
particular, st a-
tions using the
Rack and panel
transmitter of
VK2SV, Lin d-
field, N.S.W. The
design permits
plenty of space
between racks for
accessibility. The
stages are: 59
tritet, 46’s and
210’s.
portions either
above or below
14,150 to 14,250 kc.
are naturally in-
clined to confine
searching to the frequency territory
adjacent to their own ; it takes time to
cover even a small portion of the band.
The QLM and QMH and such calls
appear to be used mainly only during
marathon contests. It is now almost
essential to use them at any time if con-
tact is desired over the whole 14mc.
band, otherwise a large number of con-
tacts are likely to be missed. There is
no reason why a station calling on, say,
14,300 kc. should not, by the simple ex-
pedient of tacking QLM on, look be-
tween 14,000 and 14,150 kc. There may
be stations with crystals at this end of
the band looking over the high frequency
end. The only Other solution to effec-
tive band coverage is an array of cry-
stals, and not all can afford this.
The new ultra-short-wave receiver
using a 956 acorn T.R.F. stage (recently
referred to on this page) has proved the
superiority of this valve on five metres.
Stations which previously were just
audible with the best of detector input
super-regenerators appear at good
strength when dialled on this receiver.
The writer has heard objection raised
to valves of the 956 type on the
of cost, but most amateurs will “raise
the wind” for efficient transmitting
valves. Surely the receiver is equally
important! A station is only halt
C.W. Peters ( VK2SV ) at his operating
position. His receiver is a 14-valve
superhet using metal-type valves.
equipped if it has a good transmitter
and an indifferent receiver. As an in-
stance of this, a station working on a
DX band complains of local interference
yet admits using a T.R.F. type receiver.
The T.R.F. receiver, well designed, has
its good points, but on 40 and 20 metres
in a crowded district it is almost hope-
less for purely amateur band reception.
VK2NO.
Variable Selectivity I.F.T.
There are various ways of controlling
band-width in intermediate frequency
transformers for superhets ; one of the
most simple is here illustrated. The
usual LF.T. with coils spaced apart on
a wooden dowel can be treated to secure
rotation of one of the coils by cutting
through the dowel and fitting the swing-
ing coil on a mounting to be controlled
through a hole in the side of the can.
Variable selectivity iron core I.F.Ts. ap-
parently haven’t yet reached the Aus-
tralian market, but the constructor can
easily make up his own, using the Sirufer
cores in the manner illustrated. Speci-
fications of 465 kc. I.F.Ts. using the
Sirufer core have been issued by Ducon
Condensers Pty. ; these will be described
shortly in these pages.
RADIOPLAYERS FOR AN EASTERN POTENTATE.
Recently a number of special Philips Radioplayers of rosewood and
ivory were made to the order of the Maharajah of Patiala (India).
The cabinets were made of costly woods—among others, mahogany
and rosewood—and the escutcheon and control knobs were of carved
ivory. Chromium carrying-frames provided with small wheels and
leather-covered handles were features, and the rear panel of the sets,
with the exception of the control knobs, was identical with the front
panel. The sets have been built after this fashion to be adaptable to
the customs of the country, for in Patiala no chairs are used, and the
people squat on carpets or low cushions.


ALL YOUR OLD
Mdeas ABOUT COUNTRY
RAD 10....
\K\W
HO
V\t^
ft'N
tMW
Times have changed. No longer is it neces-
sary for the man on the land to put up with
the cost and inconvenience of recharging
heavy accumulators for his radio. NOW he
can sit back and enjoy THE NEW
AIR CELL OPERATED RADIO
Latest and most modern advance in the con-
struction of farm radio. Equipped with an
EVEREADY AIR CELL that gives more than
a year of trouble-free "life" with normal use
—it requires NO SERVICING! Just think
what this means to you! All the convenience
of city radio no matter where you are
situated.
• Air Cell operated models are already
available under the following well-known
brands:
STROMBERG-CARLSON
STERLING
TASMA
BRITON
PARAMOUNT
BEALE
KRIESLER
S.T.C. (Queensland only)
tr
"I,
HO
\\vs-
\hs^s
n won
oM^
*o*
.. WITH
AIR CELL
RADIO
OPERATED
USING THE
•f.’s.'S
EVEREADY
Air
Cell
O An advertisement issued by the Ever Ready Co. (Aust.) Ltd., Sydney
5.E.A.2
Radiotron Service
Oscillograph.
The circuit diagram shows a Radio-
tron application of the new 913 cathode-
ray tube, from a description issued by
A.W. Valve Co. An oscillograph of this
kind is valuable for many uses and in-
expensive to construct. Note that one
transformer secondary is used with two
RADIOTRON SERVICE OSCILLOGRAPH
rectifiers. The 80 operates in the normal
full-wave fashion to supply the sweep
and amplifier circuits, and the IV is used
as a half-wave rectifier in the opposite
sense, to provide a negative voltage for
the cathode and grid of the 913.
There are eight controls: (1) Intensity,
(2) focus, (3) horizontal (X) gain, (4)
vertical (Y) gain, (5) coarse sweep fre-
quency, (6) line sweep frequency, (7)
switch for linear or external sweep (X
amplifier), (8) synchronising.
The last-mentioned enables one to
“pull” the linear sweep frequency into
some submultiple of the frequency of the
wave under observation, so that the
image remains steady on the screen. The
circuit forms the basis for the design of
an oscillograph which may be used for
almost any oscillographic test required
in an experimenter’s workshop or on a
service bench.
V.C.
Headphone-Speaker
Switching.
There are occasions, particularly in the
early hours, when the user of a com-
mercial dual- or all-wave receiver de-
signed for loudspeaker work would like
to cut out the speaker and indulge in
short-wave searching with headphones.
There are various ways of doing this.
The device illustrated consists of a simple
substitution by switching of headphones
for the speaker voice coil. Connection
is made in the secondary (voice coil)
winding of the speaker transformer, and,
although the headphones are sure to be
of much higher resistance than the voice
coil winding, the output transformer will
furnish plenty of volume. Volume level
is regulated by the control fitted on the
receiver. A jack-and-plug system can be
worked in to take the place of the
S.P.D.T, switch shown in the circuit
diagram.
Radio Trade Spotlight.
For 2d. to cover postage, Bulletin
readers interested in short-wave work
can obtain the new catalogue issued by
Prices Radio Service, Angel-place, Syd-
ney, compiled primarily in the interests
of the experimental constructor. Listed
are such high-grade components as
Cyldon and Formo variable condensers,
Raymart midget variables with ceramic
insulation, panel nameplates, condenser
scales, stand-off insulators, microphones,
vernier dials of all kinds, steatite valve
sockets, complete testing equipment and
all other generally-stocked radio com-
ponents. This firm’s business includes a
growing section for model-makers. The
catalogue shows workshop tools of all
kinds, Lionel model electric railways, and
kits for model-aeroplane constructors.
4= * 4= *
Philips Lamps (A’sia), Ltd., is issuing
a monthly published in Eindhoven (Hol-
land) and called “Philips Technical
Review.” Subscription, 10s. post free
for a year, is accepted through the Sydney
office. It will be in English, and promises
to be of the greatest value to all con-
cerned with the technical development of
radio, sound apparatus and television.
Examples of the articles are given in
Philips “Technical Communication,” No.
58, for April—“An Experimental Tele-
vision Transmitter and Receiver,” by J.
Van Der Mark, and “Optical Telephony,”
by J. W. L. Kohler.
"Bulletin" Test Review.
(Manufacturers’ products considered worthy of
attention are tested and given an unbiased
report in this section.)
New Stromberg-Carlson Dual-wave.
Latest receiver to be put through The
Bulletin’s test is Stromberg-Carlson’s
dual-wave model, No. 537. This is an
A.C. receiver in a sloping control cabi-
net of pleasing design, with the now
familiar edgelit tuning dial. There are
four controls—tone, volume level, tun-
ing and wave-change switch, the latter
having three positions. The short-wave
section takes in from 16 to 50
metres, and the broadcast sec-
tion is arranged for distant and
local reception.
The vertical-tuning, wide-
vision dial is of a type that tells
the story in bold lettering, the
calibrations being made on the
glass scale. Station indication
is by a moving white crossbar.
Above the dial is fitted the
Magic Eye, to show when a sta-
tion is correctly tuned in. Six-
volt valve types are employed,
these being 6A7 mixer, 6D6 in-
termediate frequency amplifier
at around 460 kc., 75 as detector,
automatic volume control and
audio amplifier, 42 audio output
pentode, and an EZ3 indirectly
heated, full-wave rectifier. The
loudspeaker is an Bin. 1600-
ohm type, with the field employed as
filter choke in conjunction with one
35mfd. and two Bmfd. electrolytic con-
densers.
Putting the receiver into action, the
first point to attract attention is the re-
markable fidelity and volume obtainable
from the single output pentode. The
receiver completely convinces that the
days of doubt about the efficiency of the
single pentode audio output are over.
The tendency towards harmonic distor-
tion has been completely banished. On
broadcast and short-wave ranges the per-
formance of the receiver is excellent, and
the A.V.C. action on the near-by power-
ful local is well in evidence. Owing to
the extensive filtering there is no trace
whatever of residual hum, and on the
weakest of distant carriers there is no
sign of noise level. The stations logged
prove amply that the Strom berg-Carl son
537 is in no way lacking in sensitivity;
anything at all audible could be played
comfortably on the most indifferent kind
of indoor aerial. The receiver is a first-
rate job throughout, popularly priced,
and a piece of furniture handsome
enough to satisfy the most fastidious
housewife.
D.B.K.


TILLEY LAMPS
300 CANDLE POWER
v*.
38#
I
L
7
'4 b'-
Obtainable
from your local
agent or"
British made. Fool
proof and trouble proof.
Burn for 10 hours on
li pints of kerosene.
Three times the life of
ordinary mantles. All
lamps fitted with
PYREX Globes and
insect proof fittings.
Model EX4 Ail Purpose
Lamp, as illustrated,
may be used as a
Storm Lantern, Hang-
ing Lamp, or Table
Lamp. Height, 19in.
Price, 47/6
Complete.
Write for Catalogue of
Table, Wall, Vase and
Other Lamps.
W. KOPSEN & CO., LTD.,
70 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
MINERALS FOR STOCK.
“Old Friend” : Funny, wasn’t it, both
of us going batty about our young stock
and both feeding Tri-cal-os Bone Flour?
One thing, feeding Tri-cal-os does take
a load off your mind —you are quite
sure what your stock is getting. I read
the other day that phosphorus deficiency
affects appetite and that, stock in appar-
ently good condition and apparently giv-
ing maximum production cannot, be
regarded as not requiring a mineral sup-
plement. I glowed—got in first there,
old chap, mine get Tri-cal-os —it supplies
the minerals which our pastures lack.
I’m also writing to Bill telling him to get
in touch with Davis Gelatine (Australia),
Ltd., Sydney, for those folders about
Tri-cal-os.
Old Farmer.
■=* £
ft*
MM
VITA - LICK
for
HEALTHIER AND MORE
PROFITABLE SHEEP
Mr. P. A. Wright, “Wallamumbi,”
A rmidale, writes, _23 / Jj ’35 :
“I have proved many times
over to. my own satisfaction
that sheep having constant
access to Vita-Lick are less
subject to attack from both
internal and external parasites,
and, in addition, their wool
retains a lustre and softness,
even in an adverse season,
which is lacking in sheep not so
treated.”
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
Machines Versus Blades.
“Murrawong”: “Walgett’s” compari-
sons of shearing conditions to-day and
40 years ago (B. 5/5/’37) might have
been carried further. With wool selling
at lOd. per pound and shearing costing
£1 a hundred in 1897, both owner and
shearer were better off than with wool at
18d. to-day and shearing at 31s. 6d. a
hundred. Compare taxation in 1897 with
the extortions of to-day and you will get
the reason at a glance, and the advance in
living standards will explain things from
the shearers’ point of view.
“Walgett” blames contract shearing for
the fact that shearers take less interest
in their work, but that is only partly
true. The chief reason would be made
more clear by comparing a pastoral map
of 1897 with one of the present day. In
the old days, shearers did seem to have
more individuality, but it was not union-
ism that killed that. Subdivision of big
.estates was responsible.
There were as many sheep then as
now, but those were the days of the big
sheds, when names like Big Burrawang
(N.S.W.) and Milo (Q.) rolled easily
from shearers’ tongues, when 50 or 60
shearers on the board, dealing with
200,000 to 250,000 sheep, were not un-
common, and sheds lasted as many
months as they do weeks nowadays.
At the cut-out men moved on to the
next shed on horses or per boot. Life
was more leisurely, the shearing season
was spread out longer, and few cheques
got past the nearest pub.
Nowadays there are half a dozen small
sheds where one big station used to
stand. Any shed with 16 stands or more
is considered a big shed, and the famous
old names are. swamped under a welter
of small selections the size of an old-
time paddock. In N.S.W. shearing is.
confined to four or five months of the
year, and from start to finish it is a
hectic rush. Fierce competition between
contractors has cut prices to a mini-
mum at which a slow shearing or a day’s’
delay oq account of wet weather is all
that lies between a meagre profit and
loss. As soon as the cut-out whistle
blows, the rush begins to the next shed
by motor-car or -lorry. The season is
too short to risk missing a blow.
In the old days a shed that couldn’t
offer 2000 sheep a man wasn’t worth
considering. To-day the sheds that can
are rare, and there are scores with only
500-1000 per man—one to two weeks’
work—entailing time and money lost in
travelling.
Despite the need for hustle, “Wal-
gett’s” statement that “a fair shearer of
1937 is harder on his sheep than the
learner of 1897” cannot be allowed to
pass unchallenged. A few shearers may
injure sheep by kneeling on them, on the
long blow, but any boss-of the board
who knows his job will check the prac-
tice at the start. Some of the old guns
among the tong-men had a habit of
dumping sheep, which was just as harm-
ful.
In a comparison of blade-shorn sheep
with machine-shorn, the disadvantages of
the latter are due to the attitude of
graziers themselves. Apart from stud
flocks, one or two sheds still shear with
the blades. The reason why machines
remain in general use is because, the
majority of owners want their sheep
pinked.
It is a pity that this preference for get-
ting the last bit of wool off is carried to
such extremes. Results are comb-
scratches and cuts, particularly on
wrinkly sheep, a smother of second cuts
to augment the locks, and sheep at the
mercy of flies and sudden changes ot
weather. Yet, if owners wished, machine-
shorn sheep could be turned out with all
the advantages claimed for the blades,
plus several others.
Machines may scratch and nick sheep,
but a mishit with the blades usually
meant a cut that had to be sewn up.
One of the best sheepmen in this State
tells the team before they start his sheep :
“You can keep up on the body so long
as you don’t ridge ’em, but I don’t want
second cuts. Clean the heads and crutch
thoroughly, but I won’t stand having my
sheep cut about.” The result is fewer
cuts on the sheep and a smaller percent-
age of locks. The .sheep have some little
protection against cold, .and any _ wool
left on them is not lost—they bring it
back to the shed next year. ,
Small, wrinkly lambs that the blades
won’t look at can be successfully shorn
by machines. These lambs don’t give
anything like enough wool to pay for
shearing, but they will make up for it
before next shearing in condition, free-
dom from grass-seed and fly attack and
lamb-tip. It is a mistake to insist on
shaving that type of lamb. It is impos-
sible to make them look well, and keep-
ing down on the skin means only that
they will be scratched from one end to
the other and take weeks to recover. If
owners would insist on having .crutch
and head thoroughly shorn and worry
less about getting the last |in. off the
body they would be better off.
Fat-lamb Breeders.
“Sheepo” • ■ If fat-lamb breeders stick
to first-cross ewes they are likely to find
the supply inadequate to meet the
demand; results have been quite satis-
factory where big, plain-bodied merino
ewes, have been mated with several of
the types of English breeds of rams.
Failure in fat-lamb raising comes
, u a mmr ic nnt
when the breed of rams used :s not
adaptable to climatic an p
ditions; the progeny suffer from defects
not desired at Smithfield. Some of the
best fat lambs I ever saw were raised in
the Riverina last season ; they were by
Romney Marsh rams from merino ewes.
“Yeno Ham” (B. 31/3/’37) makes a
curious statement when he says “pure-
breds eat much more feed than do cross-
breds.” My experience is that crossbreds
trample down more grass than merinos
eat when the season as lush. The merino
is easily the hardier and more frugal
doer.
A high standard of lambs suitable for
export is being raised here, and by inten-
sive culling of the ewes and the use of
purebred rams of a desirable breed,
there is no reason why the Australian
product should not hold a place near the
“ That'll teach you cows t' stop sleeping in my crops!
top at Smithfield. As well as quality and
bloom, uniformity is important.
Lincoln and Downs Crosses.
“CrV.S.”: Lincoln wool'has been sell-
ing consistently , well lately since I
quoted 20id. (B, 7/4 / ’37) it ’exceeded
20d. per pound on both days of the final
Geelong sales. The brands H.A./Chel-
sea and Spring Park/J.G., comprising an
interlotted line of pure Lincoln, realised
21 id. per pound, the season’s record.
When crossed with mutton sheep, the
merino' imparts some character to the
progeny’s wool, as “Ryedown” pointed
out (B. 21 /4/’37). Another Downs sheep
that yields a fair fleece w'hen so crossed
is the Dorset Horn ; but with the dark-
pointed varieties, such as the Southdown,
Shropshire and Suffolk, the harshness
and grey fibres are apparent in the cross,
Though the Ryeland may grow a fair
fleece, it is debatable whether mutton
excellence and wool quality can be bred
together, and it is significant that the
Southdown, with its perfection of car-
“ss, grows very poor wool—short harsh,
ackmg in character and staple forma-
“on. a " d often showing grey fibres,
Southdowns and Lamb Export,
“Ghanam”: In a competition for con-
signments of N. S. Wales fat lambs
arranged by Australian breeders ot Brit-
pa,m tQ Southdown
crosses. The carcasses were judged by
j j Hamiltonj a we U-known Smithfield
au thority. Each lot consisted of five
i am b S 5 and there were seven entries,
The winning lot was sent by W. A.
O’Neill, of Cowra (N.S.W.). They were
the offspring of Southdown rams with
Southdown - Border Leicester - merino
ewes. B. J. Stocks (N.S.W.) came second
—Southdown rams on Romney-Border
Leicester-merinos. The loins of this con-
signment did not carry the depth of flesh
of the firsts. The Mensie Pastoral
Company, in third place, used sheep of
the same breeding as those of B. J.
Stocks. They were inclined a little to
overfatness on the loins,
Generally speaking, the entries were a
proof that N. S. Wales men can breed
fat lambs equal to any in the world, pro-
vided they study market requirements.
Some of the entries lacked bloom, ana
the owners of others were evidently using
breeds which do not give crosses all of
a piece and of the right texture of meat
and proper fat distribution.
Tasmanian breeders had a competition
in London on the same day. Their
exhibits were more uniform than those
from N.S.W., though the tops were not
equal to the Cowra entry.
What the Tariff . Wrangle Cost.
“Ek Dum”: Figures issued by the
British Imperial Economic Committee
show ho\fr much the tariff wrangle cost
in Japanese trade.
S’Africa, which shipped 4,500,0001 b. of
wool to Japan in July-February, 1935-36,


AsktivJtowek
m
J
» ■ a
0#
1 /S
»
7 -
I
s**
oft
The most economical truck for
your haulage or delivery work
is in the International line . ♦.
The comprehensive International range
includes the following models:—
Utilities and %-ton vans, 113 and
125-in. wheelbases.
20-cwt., 136-in. wheelbase.
30-cwt., 133 and 157-in. wheelbases.
35-cwt., 133 and 157-in. wheelbases.
2- 160-in. wheelbase.
3- 155 and 185-in. wheelbases.
4- 156, 170 and 185-in. wheel-
bases.
5- 190-in. wheelbase.
Also Six-wheelers from 3 to 10-ton
capacities in various wheelbases.
CHASSIS PRICES
FROM
£277
(plus
tax)
IM
The driver has to deliver his loads on
time and in good shape his job
depends on it. He depends on his
International. He sees all makes of
trucks at work—including those used by your business
competitors. He discusses with other drivers the power,
stamina and performance of every truck on the road . . .
Ask him and he’ll tell you “Internationals can be relied
on, day in, day out, to carry any load anywhere that
trucks can travel ...”
Dependable quality in every detail makes the outstand-
ing reputation of Internationals among truck owners
and truck drivers . . . Buy an International, the world’s
best truck investment.
Write to us for full details and catalogues—we will be
pleased to give you an exacting on'the’job demonstration.
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
(INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA)
BRISBANE SYDNEY MELBOURNE ADELAIDE PERTH
D. 375
INTERNATIONAL TRUCKS
shipped 52,800,0001 b. in the same period
last year. Maoriland’s increase was
from 11,700,000 to 25,500,000. The
Argentine (October-February, 1935-36)
sent 500,0001 b. to Japan and 16,000,0001 b.
during the same months of the present
season. Uruguay’s increase was from
1 500,0001 b. to 20,100,0001 b. Australia’s
shipment fell from 169,800,0001 b. for the
July-February period to 34,900,0001 b.
On the basis of average Australian
values (16d.) up to February, Mr. Lyons’s
gift to Argentina, Uruguay, S’Africa and
Maoriland was worth £6,400,000.
Another Vote for Goat.
“St. George”: The writer of *‘A Plea
for Billy” (B. 21/4/’37) says “there is
a fortune waiting in the North for some-
body who decides to treat the goat seri-
ously.” But why in the North only?
Goat-farming would pay if seriously
undertaken almost anywhere in Aus-
tralia. There are fine closer-settlement
possibilities in it.
It is not suggested that anybody should
start goat-farming with ordinary goats,
but with some such type as the Saanen,
Nubian, British Alpine or Toggenburg.
All these breeds, when properly cared
for, give large yields of milk, the quality
of which is far better than that of the
average cow.
Butter made from goat’s cream is just
as good as, if not better than, ordinary
butter. Most of the makes of Continen-
tal cheese imported into Australia are
the product of goat’s milk.
Licks for Impaction.
“B-gar”: In parts of N.S.W. where
conditions are dry many ewes in lamb
are dying through impaction.
Where pastures do not provide the
laxative ewes in lamb need a lick should
be made available. There are many re-
liable licks on the market, of which
ingredient details are given by the
makers. Once the ewes have taken to
one of these licks, impaction troubles
will be reduced to a minimum.
A lick recommended by the N.S.W.
Agricultural Dept, is salt and sterilised
bonemeal or dicalcic-phosphate mixed
in equal proportions, with a little
molasses added for binding.
Pasture for Pigs.
“Johnop”: The reason Australian pig-
farmers don’t make much use of pasture
(B. 12/5/’37) is that sound husbandry
does not call for it.
The North Carolina Agricultural Ex-
periment Station in U.S. carried out trials
to determine the value of pastures as a
supplement to grain concentrates. It
was not found that pigs grazed on per-
manent pasture consumed less concen-
trates or made more rapid gains than
those existing under ordinary conditions.
Nor would palatable and succulent pas-
ture balance a ration weak in protein,
since pigs on pasture that were fed a
grain ration limited in protein needed
more nitrogenous concentrates per ftnit
gain and returned less profit (pasture
costs were considered) than did pigs fed
adequate protein ration in a dry pad-
dock. Even these latter pigs required
some pasture to supply all their vita-
min A.
Feeding Maize to Pigs.
“Namoey”: American authorities ac-
cept that one bushel of maize will pro-
duce the following liveweight of pork,
varying with the treatment of the maize:
1 bushel raw whole maize = 81b. live weight
1 bushel maizemeal .. .. = 101 b. „ „
1 bushel whole maize boiled = 121 b. „ „
1 bushel maizemeal boiled = 151 b. „ „
Thus, boiling increases the feeding
value by about 50 p.c., and at 4d. per
pound liveweight the bushel of boiled
maizemeal returns ss. against 2s. Bd. for
{Continued on next page.)


ff('
I J
C3
gh
SOMETHING DIFFERENT FOR EVERYDAY WEAR
Different certainly, and very smart, don’t you think?
That touch of England featured by the blind eyelets and rounded
toe makes it a little more distinctive than its Australian brothers.
Made from a high-polishing Black Box Calf or Brown Willow Calf
and stocked in full and half sizes.
Price: Black Calf, 29/6; Brown Calf, 29/6.
Write for a Catalogue.
ABBEY SHOES
316 GEORGE STREET, 224 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY.
Telegraphic Address: “ABBEY BOOTS, SYDNEY.’'
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish to succeed
—THINK OF
Mb
PERSONAL
ATTENTION
\1
p (pre-war strength)
THE PERFECT
WHISKY
Over seventy years' ex-
perience has produced this
exceptional whisky. Bottled
under strict Government
supervision, at pre-war
strength, it is unique in
flavour and unvarying in
quality.
Canadian Club is on sale
throughout the World, at
the same price as standard
Scotch brands.
Write for a free attractive
Cocktail Recipe Book, to
the Agents,
k
3S
►*«
By Appointment
Agents: John Woods & Co. Ltd., 388 Sussex St., Sydney
Distilled by Hiram Walker & Sons Ltd., Walkerville, Ontario,
Canada. Since 1858.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN”
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
ffiuTfyxilZelz/rL
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
PASTURE SEEDS.
Write to Hawthorne Bros. Pty., Ltrl., Kerar.s,
Vie., for price list of Wimmera and Cert. Per. Byes,
Sub. Clovers early and late, all other seeds, arc
save 74% to 10%. We pay freight.
a bushel of raw whole maize. It may be
added that, as a prime-quality pig dresses
80 p.c. of its liveweight, the dressed
weight would be sd. per pound.
U.S.A. rates malted barley as the best
cereal for fattening and flavoring, but
it is generally too dear. Desiccated
grains make an efficient substitute;
many large American piggeries are being
maintained entirely on desiccated grains
and skim-milk, which give a product
much superior to the best wholly-corn-
fed pork.
Wheat and ’Hoppers.
“Nabawa”: Some have been waiting
for the grasshopper situation to develop
before going ahead with wheat-sowing.
Seedling wheat can be protected from
’hoppers by having in readiness supplies
of bran, arsenic and molasses for
poisoned bran bait.
Over two years ago, before the great
’hopper plague, Harold Bartlett, an agri-
cultural instructor of Parkes (N.S.W.)
district, warned wheat-farmers of what
was coming. Later, he submitted a plan
for checking the by then evident danger.
Briefly, it was that farmers should form
organised bands to lay poisoned bran
baits against the oncoming swarms. The
Bulletin was among the first to com-
mend it. But the plan was vigor-
ously opposed, all the efforts of the
Department of Agriculture failed to break
down the opposition, and the ’hoppers
wreaked damage on seedling wheat in
the autumn and came out the following
spring to denude pastures, lucerne crops,
oats and even wheat approaching ripen-
ing.
In a book just published, Three
Deserts, Jarvis (he was Governor of
Sinai) tells how he beat a locust plague
that threatened the Nile. Valley. They
“made a definite shadow over the sun” ;
300 flame guns were unavailing; pits,
trenches and barriers of tin failed to
stem the tide of insects. Then Jarvis got
poisoned bran. Arab farmers and
workers alike belittled it —until several
camels died from eating the bran, and a
lorry-load of “writhing Arabs” was taken
to hospital after eating from a tin in
which the poison was mixed.
“From that day,” says Jarvis, “the tide
of battle turned. Lorry-loads of bran
were sent in all directions, and wide
belts of the stuff laid. Soon there was
a black carpet of death over the desert.
Day after day reports came that area
after area was cleared until none
remained.”
Jarvis could press all hands into ser-
vice, and could compel the use of bran
bait; Bartlett and his department had to
rely on the, goodwill of affected farmers.
And there lies the difference between suc-
cess in Sinai and failure in N. S. Wales.
Farmers who lose seedling wheat
through grasshoppers this autumn will
deserve little sympathy.
Banana Desuckering.
“Ex-Banana Cocky”: Let me add to
“Lady’s Finger’s” recent advice on de-
suckering bananas that on most planta-
tions a second or third cut is desired, and
to get the best results the strongest
suckers should be left, and always on the
uphill side of the parent plant; if the
ground is steep, the soil will wash away
from the bottom side.
One or two suckers may be left ac-
cording to the richness of the soil and
the distance apart of the plants. I have
seen good results from three.
Hints for the Farm.
“Hortus”: For sore teats or udders,
use a mixture of one drachm of zinc
oxide and loz. of vaseline.
“Tabac”: To protect tobacco seed
from seed-harvesting ants, cover beds
with medium-grade river sand to a depth
of |in. —about \\ kerosene-tins of sand
to 100 sq. ft. of seed.
“Sandy”: To preserve super, bags, turn
inside out, beat against a fencing post
and hang in a dry place; then wash in
a solution of lib. washing soda to lOgal.
water, rinse in fresh water and hang out
to dry.
“Tockilly”: Many find a full-length
axe-handle too long and a three-quarter
not quite long enough. Instead of fitting
the head right back to the shoulder of
the three-quarter handle, and cutting oft'
the extra wood, cut the shoulder before-
hand and rasp it down. Allow just
enough to let the head fit without handle-
waste. This method strengthens the
handle and adds to its length.
“Stump Jump”: Try this bran mash
for horses: Two to four pounds of bran
mixed with enough boiling water to
dampen well. Cover with a handful of
oats, on which splash a little boiling
water. Place a wheat-bag over the bucket
and steam 10 to 15 minutes. Feed when
your hand may be plunged in deep and
the bran feels lukewarm.
“L.F.P.”: Let as much light as possible
fall on seed-potato tubers to prevent the
blackening and death of sprout tips.
Bruised shoots grown in bright light do
not blacken like those in sacks.
“Sandy”: A cheap method of preserv-
ing timber from white-ants. After the
sheep-dipping is over, leave the solution
in the dip and put in the timber, leaving
it for six or eight weeks. Stir the dip
every day, turning the wood every few
days.
“Hortus”: For red volcanic soils on
the N.S.W. North Coast, New Zealand
Italian rye, 251 b. to acre, sown between
maize rows after last scuffling, is a
sound method of providing cheap winter
pasture.
“Salmon Gums”: Cows should have
water available always; it is a mistake
to water them only once a day. The
average cow drinks 10 gallons per day,
and high producers considerably more.
On part green, part dry feed, cows take
in 3501 b. of water for each 1001 b. of
milk produced, as well as 2001 b. drunk,
making a total of 5501 b. water per 1001 b.
milk. Cows in milk drink four times as
much as when dry.
“Ewig”: Owing to pasture shortage
Germany is carrying on large-scale ex-
periments in fertilising sheep lands. In
Bavaria, where sheepbreeders’ organisa-
tions co-operated in the work, best results
were obtained with quicklime, super.,
calcium cyanamide in equal parts, plus
40 p.c. potash manure salt (K2O). This
increased output 100.46 p.c., but pen
manure turned out very nearly as effec-
tive, though it did not suppress weed
growth as did the chemicals. Much of
the land in Germany is poor in lime, and
to parts of Australia with the same sort
of deficiency the experiments are of par-
ticular interest.
“Mookau”: There has been a lot of
argument about the effect of old age on
the quality of a cow’s milk. The change
in fat content is large enough to be
marked in most cases, and that is all. A
cove may show as high as } p.c. or as
low as one-sixth p.c. decline over 12
years old. Generally, the probable fall-
ing off can be reckoned if the early record
of the cow is known, but calculation is
not always reliable. Many a heifer has
started her milking period on a poor
level and has become a first-class fat-
and milk-producer in her prime.
“Notaden”: British Minister of Agri-
culture records an ingenious method of
eradicating an insect pest. After the
plants had been set out in a glass tomato-
house, 78ft. by 15ft., the soil was found
to be infested by wireworm. On expert
advice, a rapidly germinating variety of
wheat was sown between the tomato
rows. Young wheat is more attractive
to wireworms than tomato plants, and
they promptly migrated to it. To pull
up the wheat would have meant missing
a lot of the worms and disturbing the
root soil of the plants. Carrots and
potatoes are an attractive change to wire-
worm palates, so pieces of both were
laid down as traps among the wheat. The
wireworms, having the. time of their lives
so far, were then picked up in the traps
and slain —over 1200, and not one
tomato plant injured.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department .)
How to deal with aphis on cabbage and
similar plants? —s73B.
Aphis can be controlled in the early stages
by spraying with lead-arsenate solution (lfoz.
to four gallons of water). After the “hearts"
form, dust with derris-root or equal parts of
lime and tobacco-dust while dew is on the
plants. To check the aphis on radishes or
turniDs sprav with Black Leaf 40 (trade
strength), making certain of getting under the
leaves, where the pests shelter. Regular treat-
ments are the only way to keep the plants
clean.


All Records Broken!
H. OPPERMAN
(from a photo)
1936 was a record year for the sales ol
Double “D” Eucalyptus Extract. It is not sur-
prising that Double “D” has become so popu-
lar when it is remembered that every bottle
is guaranteed by The Sheldon Drug Co. Pty
Ltd to contain over 70% Cineol—to be
entirely free from Phellandrene—and to
conform in every way with the British
Pharmacopoeia regulations. You run no
risks when you use Double “D” Eucalyptus—
it’s pure, strong and safe.
H. OPPERMAN
praises
DoubleD
fsuculv-fttuA GxPuut
The noted record-breaking, cyclist—
Hubert Opperman—is loud in his praise of
Double “D” Eucalyptus. On his recent trip
to England to compete in the 6-Day Cycle
Race, “Oppy” carried with him a supply of
Double “D.” He says:
“After every ride, I rub my legs with Double
“D” Eucalyptus to prevent my muscles
from becoming stiff and sore. I find your
Eucalyptus very much stronger than other
brands, and always keep several bottles in
my training quarters. I recommend it to
all other cyclists and athletes
Whatever sport you play, take the advice of H. Opperman, and massage
your muscles with Double “D” Eucalyptus. Double “D” is pure and strong,
and will keep your muscles supple and in splendid condition. It can be
used with excellent results for sprains and bruises, and is also unrivalled
for ’Flu, Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis, Asthma and Catarrh.
Always keep a bottle of Double “D” handy—it’s the
remedy of a dozen different uses. 9d. and 1/3.
DoubleD”
&ucaUfhtud ixtiact
THE PURE STRONG EUCALYPTUS WITH THE SWEET FRESH SMELL
%
•'
v.s
The middle-aged man !
TO be successful at his job a man must keep fit. Most
of us are fit when we are young, but as youth slips
away and middle-age sets in, the kidneys often “fall down
on their job”—permitting impurities to escape into the
system, causing ill-health and lowered vitality.
Gin Pills will strengthen your kidneys—help them to
filter the impurities from the blood-streams —make you
feel strong and healthy again.
You can place every confidence in Dr. Sheldon’s Gin
Pills as they contain no harsh irritants or harmful
ingredients and their constituents are such that they cannot
help but do you good.
You con absolutely rely on-
Immense
Sales
27 Pills 1/9
60 Pills 2/9
R SHELDONS
®m PILES
7'’
rr*>
5&55
m
*k&m
s?£ss»
are
*to
is**?
ME
Sfi
ft- I *'
{*
oaf
*3-;
*r
was:
m
mm
&
: &*m,
tf*; i*--
•*i=z?
V-»>'
I
ar-a
«®!SS
re
MS*
v'*-.
3b
s?»f .
rr«V»-.-
fv^V v , a
?si
r*s322
■» • •V. Awr. ‘
•Ml
V*• - - ;V;-- \
•ill*
'*/*>
•*
***** ■■■■■■•• ,
K 5
S3RS
3-r>
r#
2*j*
sftar r.
• ; H
v; .:•
•V; > ‘t
-->-
#
§#
m*
*3*
***
tp.ls
Q°
ifeJVflW
3->
&
*£>
«!■
“British Built —”
What a world of confidence
these words inspire—what a
promise of performance they
hold! In every sphere of engi-
neering, British workmanship
stands supreme.
me
'0
%
Listen in and laugh
at
“Leave It to
Leslie/’
Stations
2TM, 2VVG, 2NZ,
7.50 p.m. every
Tuesday, Wednes-
day and Thursday.
Station 2GZ every
Monday, Tuesday,
Wednesday and
Thursday.
isren
Sheep Shearing
MACHINERY
Lister Guaranteed Sealed, Ball-Bearing Overhead Brackets, equipped
with the new Ratchet “in-and-out” Gear, and driving Lister Ace
Handpieces, are outstanding examples of British workmanship. They
offer every improvement that engineering skill and ingenuity can
devise, coupled with the guarantee of lifetime service that only Lister
can give. Sooner or later you will equip your shed with Lister
“Duplex” and Lister “Ace” Handpieces. Let us have the oppor-
tunity now of proving to you how much time and money this ideal
combination can save you.
Sole Agents for New South Wales:
DaNGAR, GeDYE & M ALLOGH Ltd.
Malloch House, 10-14 Young Street, Sydney.
"The House for Shearing Machinery.”


Criticism
and
%\V>
C*\o
o^'
Placement
Information
S*
METROPOLITAN SCHOOL
0-nalle.v St. f Syilwr. OF JOURNAUSM
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL SANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq. •
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager — D. S’. FORBES.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 97
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
Corns Sentenced to Death.
Corns have worried you—now worry them:
although “worry” is hardly the word, for
A’CORN SILK does not trifle with corns, bur
ruthlessly kills them. How comfortable your
feet feel after A’CORN SILK has removed
all your soft or hard corns—a 6d. packet will
do this for you without pain or inconvenience.
Corns are killed while you sleep—a matter of
a few hours. Chemists sell A’CORN SILK at
6d. per packet. Packed by Felton, Grimwade
and Duerdins, Ltd., Melbourne.
Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
‘ Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Young married couple, N.S.W., with child
seek station position. Wife, cook; man can
milk, kill and ride. —5704.
Proofreader, Sydney, wide exp. all branches,
seven years in last place, wants employment.—
5799.
Holder of 800 acres banana and passion-
fruit land, Queensland, and long-term contract
for sale of both fruits wants partner with
£3OO to plant area.—sBll.
Young woman, shop-assistant, N.S.W., exp.
in tobacco, confectionery and light refresh-
ments, wants position in city or suburbs. —5792.
Station hand, young and energetic, last posi-
tion n.-w. Queensland, wants work on sheep
station anywhere.—s79l.
Information about the early days of Tam-
worth and its old identities. —5713.
To buy instruction book and lubrication
chart for 1928 Chrysler 65.-5773.
Information Sought.
(1) In first-class cricket what is the weight
and size of the ball? (2) Size of the bat?
(3) Width and height of the wicket? (4) Can
the captain of an opposing side legitimately
order measurements to be checked? —5789.
(1) The ball must weigh not less than
nor more than sfoz. and measure not less than
8 13/16 in. nor more than 9in. in circumference.
(2) The bat shall not exceed 4|in. in the widest
part nor more than 38in. in length. (3) The
wicket shall be 9in. wide and 28in. out of the
ground and the bails 4jin. in length. (4) Cap-
tains, in conjunction with the umpires, can
check measurements.
(1) Names of the players in the Maoriland
cricket team in England at present who toured
with the 1931 M.L. XI in England? (2) What
was the result of the 1931 tour, and how many
Test matches were played? —sBoo.
(1) Only M. L. Page, H. G. Vivian, J. L. Kerr,
G. L. Weir and manager T. C. Lowry were
in the 1931 team. (2) Thirty-two lirst-class
matches were played, of which six were won,
three lost and 23 drawn. Of the three Tests
one was lost (at Kennington Oval, by an
innings and 26 runs) and two drawn.
¥ * * *
Who among the 19 Australian XI captains
to tour England topped the batting or bowling
averages, and their performances? —s7Bs.
Batsmen.
Not Hgst.
Year. Captain. Ings. Out. Score. Runs. Av.
1880-W. Murdoch ..60 5 153* 1218 22.14
1882-W. Murdoch .. 61 5 286* 1711 30.55
1884-W. Murdoch .. 50 5 211 1378 30.62
1888 -P. McDonnell 62 1 105 1393 22.83
1890 -W. Murdoch .. 64 2 158* 1459 23.53
1899 -J. Darling ...56 9 167 1941 41.29
* Not out.
Bowlers.
Year. Captain. Overs. Mdns. Rns. Wkts. Av.
1921-W. Armstrong 769.5 277 1544 106 14.56
1926-H. Collins ... 101.3 28 254 16 15.87
* * * *
(1) Who is the world’s bantamweight cham-
pion boxer? (2) Champions of the world in
other divisions ? —5784.
(1) After Panama A 1 Brown, who was undis-
puted bantamweight champion of the world,
left New York in 1932, there were many
claimants to his Bst. 61b. title, but Spaniard
Baltasar Sangchilli beat Brown at Barcelona in
1935; then Tony Marino knocked out Sang-
chilli in New York last June, and Sixto Escobar
conquered Marino two months later. (2)
Boxers generally recognised as the present
world’s champions are: Flyweight, Benny
Lynch (Scotland); bantamweight, Sixto Esco-
bar (Porto Rico); featherweight, Pete Sarron
(U.S.A.); lightweight, Lou Ambers (U.S.A.);
welterweight, Barney Ross (U.S.A.); middle-
weight, Freddie Steele (U.S.A.); light-heavy-
weight, John Henry Lewis (U.S.A.); heavy-
weight, James J. Braddock (U.S.A.).
* # * *
When playing out of a bunker within 20
yards of a flagstick is there a penalty if the
ball hits the flagstick? —s64B.
The matter is governed by Stroke Rule 13:
When a competitor’s ball lying within 20 yards
of the hole is played and strikes, or is stopped
by, the flagstick or a person standing at the
hole the penalty shall be two (2) strokes. This
penalty operates only in competition play,
there being no penalty for striking the flag-
stick in a match.
* * * *
During the slump M.L. was successful, I
understand, in building up credits in London
to the extent of £20,000,000, excess of exports
over imports. How comes it that this is
described as “bad times” ? Had the credits
been remitted to M.L. with the favorable ex-
change, would this not have given an additional
spending-power of £25 million ? —5778.
You have forgotten to take into consideration
interest liabilities in London. If you turn to
page 176 of the 1937 N.Z. Year Book you
will see that on the period 1930-35 the balance
of payments, including overseas trade, interest
on public and local bodies debt, and debt
movement, was against M.L. to the extent of
three and one-third million pounds.
I propose buying an auxiliary boat for Gipps-
land lakes and occasional cruises along the
eastern coast. It must be capable of accommo-
dating three or four men under small-boat
conditions. (1) Would a craft of about 10 tons
be suitable? (2) Could one man handle her
in lake waters? (3) Best rig for a two-man
crew ? (4) Suitable dimensions for reasonable
comfort? (5) Any navigating certificate neces-
sary for coastal cruises ? (6) Where procurable,
and approximate cost? (7) Does propeller-drag
impede sailing speed ? (8) Best season for
cruising between Victoria and Queensland? —
5715.
(1) Yes, but a larger craft would be more
comfortable. (2) Yes. (3) Cutter or ketch. (4)
About 36ft. overall, 10ft. beam, sft. draft. (5)
No, but paying passengers must not be carried.
(6) Jack Capell, Beach-road, Rushcutter Bay,
Sydney; from £7OO. (7) Yes, unless fitted with
a feathering propeller. (8) Any time in a good
boat.
* * * *
(1) What constitutes an act of bankruptcy ?
(2) In what year wm the Commonwealth
Bankruptcy Act passed? (3) Does the Vic-
torian Insolvency Act apply to N. S. Wales?
—5642.
(1) Acts of bankruptcy include the assign-
ment of property to trustees for the benefit
of creditors, making conveyances or gifts with
intent to defeat creditors by leaving the Com-
monwealth, filing a declaration of inability to
pay debts, presenting a bankruptcy petition
against oneself, giving notice to creditors that
one is about to suspend payment of debts,
non-compliance with terms for a composition
made at a meeting of creditors, etc. (2) The
Commonwealth Bankruptcy Act of 1924,
amended and now cited as the Commonwealth
Bankruptcy Act, 1924-1932, took effect from
August 1, 1928. (3) No; it is superseded by
the Commonwealth legislation. A Federal
Court of Bankruptcy was created in 1930.
# * * *
(1) Brief description of the brazing process?
(2) Composition of the flux and particulars of
the solder used? (3) Must the joints be clean?
—5689.
(1) One of the methods used from time im-
memorial to unite metals, involving the use
of a metal or alloy more fusible than the
metals to be joined. These are brought together
and the alloy melted so as to run between
them. Brazing is done in preference to solder-
ing where a stronger joint is required. Brazing
large joints is a highly-skilled operation. (2)
Powdered (sodium borate) is used as a
flux, and an alloy of copper and zinc, known
as spelter, is employed in place of solder.
For the brazing of copper and light ironwork
a spelter having about 40 p.c. zinc is used.
(3) Yes.
* * * *
When did transportation finally cease in the
various States? —5728.
The last ship to bear convicted men to
N.S.W. was the Hashemy, which was turned
away from Sydney in 1849 and discharged its
freight at Moreton Bay, where free labor was
badly needed. The Randolph was similarly
dealt with at Port Phillip in the same year.
Owing to the agitation of the Anti-transporta-
tion League, the whole of Eastern Australia,
including Norfolk Island and Van Diemen’s
Land, was closed to the importation of crimi-
nals in 1852. In W.A., owing to the scarcity
of labor, criminals were received as late as
1868, when transportation was finally abolished.
* * * *
(1) In what year was the cable station,
Yarra Bay {N.S.W. ), built? (2) What cables were
laid from there ? (3) When did it cease to be a
cable station ? (4) Was it at any time the
Coast Hospital night nurses’ quarters ? (5)
What is the building used for now ? —5734.
(t) 1901 or 1902. (2) Two duplex cables ran
to Nelson, M.L. (3) In 1917. (4) Until 1917
it was used by the cable staff, and after that
date by the night nurses of the Coast Hos-
pital at Little Bay. (5) It is a private residence.
* * * *
Particulars of competition for one-act play on
the censorship being conducted by the Writers’
League, Sydney ? —5631.
The prize is £2 25., and the winning play
will be produced. Principal conditions are:
(1) Plays shall take the censorship as their
subject, and be written as burlesques. (2) Each
play is to consist of one scene only; playing
time not more than 30 minutes; maximum
number of characters six. (3) Entries, preferably
typewritten, must be submitted to the secretary
of the Writers’ League, Box 1778 K, G.P.0.,
Sydney, on or before June 30, 1937. Pen-names
must be used, and correct name and address
of the author, together with pen-name used,
must be enclosed in a separate sealed envelope.
(4) Competitors must be members of the
Writers’ League.
* * *
(1) Are special Coronation stamps being
issued in Australia ? (2) In the Islands ? If
so, particulars, values, and dates of issue? —
5703.
(1) No special stamps have been issued, but
the Id. and 2d. denominations of the new per-
manent series were on sale on May 12, the 2d.
bearing the King’s head, and the Id. the
Queen’s. (2) Papua, New Guinea and Nauru
have each issued four values bearing the King’s
head—Papua, Id., 2d., 3d., 5d.; New Guinea,
2d., 3d., 5d., Is.; Nauru, lid., 2d., 2|d., Is.
M.L. Coronation stamps were overprinted for
Niue and Cook Is., values being Id., 6d.
British Solomon Is., Gilbert Is. and Fiji have
each issued three values, the highest being 3d.
Information regarding Dutch Borneo ?
5649.
Borneo, the second-largest island in the
Malay Archipelago, is situated midway be-
tween Cochin China and W.A., and is 850
miles long and 600 miles broad. Approximately
two-thirds of its area, 206,810 square miles,
is included in the Netherlands East Indies.
The climate is tropical (the island is bisected
by the Equator), and the main mountain system
runs parallel with the north-west coast. Vege-
tation is luxuriant, with dense forests, and
coffee, rubber, tobacco and jungle crops are
produced, as well as tin, oil and petroleum.
The population is approximately 1,700,000, of
which the larger portion is chiefly Dyak, Malay,
Negrito and Chinese, and the Mohammedan
religion predominates.
* * * *
Formula used to determine the correct clear-
ence between ends of piston rings in a petrol
motor (1) for air-cooled cylinders with alu-
minium pistons, (2) for water-cooled cylinders
with cast-iron pistons, (3) for water-cooled
cylinders with aluminium pistons? —sssB.
(1) From 0.004 in. to 0.005 in. clearance for
each inch in the diameter of the piston, accord-
ing to whether the work is light or heavy.
(2) and (3) 0.003 in. clearance for each inch in
the diameter of the piston. The type of metal
makes no difference. Example: To determine
the clearance in the case of a bore water-
cooled cylinder, multiply 3% by 0.003, equals
0.0105 in., say, O.Olin.
* * * *
(1) Is an English half-crown dated 1835 of
any greater value to-day than its nominal
value ? (2) What sovereign’s head is shown on
half-crowns of that year’s mint? On the coin
which I have the sovereign’s name is worn off,
but the head appears to be that of George IV.,
though William IV. was King in 1835. (3)
What is the value to-day of an English four-
pence ( silver ) dated 1849?—5542.
(1) Yes, about 3s. 6d. in mint condition.
Your coin, being worn, would be worth face
value only. (2) William IV. The name appears
as Gulielmus, the Latin form of William. (3)
In mint condition, 9d.; otherwise, 6d.
$ * * *
Details of the playwriting contest being con-
ducted by the South-street Society, Ballarat? —
5568.
There will be five prizes of £6 6s. for the
five best plays submitted. The entrance fee is
ss. The competition is restricted to purely
original plays which at the time of entry have
not been published, broadcast or performed in
public. Plays must consist of one or more acts
and must provide for at least four characters,
with a minimum playing time of 40 minutes and
a maximum of an hour. Plays must be sub-
mitted under a nom de plume, accompanied
by the entry form giving the real name and
address of entrant in a sealed envelope marked
on the outside with the entrant’s nom de plume,
also entrance fee. All manuscripts submitted
must be typewritten and must reach L. A.
Blackman, general secretary, Grand National
Eisteddfod of Australasia, Ballarat, Victoria,
on or before October 1, 1937.
* * * *
Is Thomas a Scottish name? What is its
history ? —5569.
The name Thomas is borne by a Scottish
family, a sept of the Clan Campbell of Argyll,
the progenitor of which was Sir Colin Mor
Campbell, Lord of Lochow, who was knighted
by King Alexander 111. in 1280; his son was
high in favor with King Robert the Bruce,
whose sister, Princess Marjory, he married. In
1445 Duncan Campbell of Lochow was raised
to the peerage by King James 11. of Scotland
as Baron Campbell; the title was created an
earldom in 1480 and a duchy in 1701.
* * * *
I am a healthy and robust man of 45 and
an indoor worker, accustomed to consume a
bottle a day or more of good port wine.
Friends warn me that this will cause excessive
blood-pressure or worse. (1) What is your
opinion ? (2) What is the food and vitamin
value of good port wine? —5459.
(1) Too much for most people. But indi-
vidual tolerance to alcohol varies enormously.
Constant overindulgence may cause increase
in blood-pressure. (2) Food value depends
upon contained sugar, which varies between
2 p.c. and 6 p.c. Vitamin content is negligible.
The wine contains anything from 16 to 22 p.c.
of alcohol by volume, and alcohol is a food,
though an expensive one.
* * * *
Any cure for rheumatoid arthritis? If so,
latest treatment ? —5024.
Septic foci, such as infected teeth, tonsils
or urinary infections, etc., must be removed.
Radiant heat, foam baths, massage and injec-
tions of suitable vaccines are often helpful,
and success has followed the use of certain
gold preparations in the same manner. A diet
of raw vegetables is now under trial. In addi-
tion to the vegetables, fruits, nuts, crushed oats,
sugar, salad oil, cream, milk and water are
given. No salt is allowed.
* * $ *
Will gardenias grow well in Sydney? Are
they slow-growing? Is there a demand for
the blooms? Would it pay to grow them for
market? Best and quickest-growing varieties?
—5547.
Gardenias are slow-growing shrubs which
thrive in cool and mountain areqs but will do
fairly well in sheltered positions in
Heat spoils the delicate blooms quickly. They
do not flower until about four years after
planting. Florists who specialise in wreaths
and small bouquets might quote a price for
high-class clean flowers. Intermedia (3ft.) and
Radicans (2ft.) have double blooms; Magni-
fica (4ft.) is the single variety.
*** ■ • *
When and how should linaria ( toad-flax )
be sown ? —-5692.
The seed may be sown in spring or autumn.
From autumn sowings the plants come into
bloom in the late spring and flower through
summer. The plant does well in any good
garden loam. The seed, which is very small,
may either be sown thinly where the plants
are to remain, taking out surplus, seedlings
when large enough to handle, leaving Khe plants
from 3in. to 4in. apart, or the seedlings may be
raised in an outdoor seedbed and transplanted
to permanent positions.
Brief Answers.
BJ.D.: It is almost impossible to make a
good job, as cement, paint, soap and water
are highly antagonistic. Remove all previous
paint with caustic soda or paint-remover and
clean the surface well. When dry, apply two
coats of painters’ size, then enamel. This bath
could probably be tiled with small wall tiles in
colors; expensive, but very handsome and up
to date... .F.M.D.: English postal notes
(properly termed British postal orders) are not
sold in Australia by the P.M.G.’s Department.
It might be possible to obtain some at one of
the foreign money-exchange agencies....
F. : Write Dangar, Gedye and Malloch, 10
Young-street, Sydney... .M.J.C.: Tomato Pro-
duction, by Paul Work (Bs.) and Tomato Cul-
ture for Amateurs, by B. C. Ravenscroft (35.).
L.P.C.: Write W. H. Paling and Co., 338
George-street, Sydney... .M.S.: The meaning of
the word Merri in aboriginal dialect is given
variously as a stone, a native, the verb to
go, the chin, dog and dogs’ camp. Merrigal,
for instance, means “many dingoes,” and Merri-
goen “dog’s blood.” Merrioola is not in any
list of aboriginal words available, the nearest
being Merool —“pipeclay”... .S.F.D.: (1) The
Empress Eugenie, wife of Napoleon 111., was
not of royal birth. Born at Granada, Spain,
May 5, 1826, she was the daughter of the
Count de Montijo, her maternal grandfather
being William Kirkpatrick, son of a Scottish
wine-merchant, resident in Malaga, who had
become a naturalised American citizen and re-
turned to Spain as U.S. Consul. (2) She was
not related in any way to the Bonapartes. (3)
Eugdnie and her husband fled to England
after Sedan (1871) and settled at Chislehurst.
Her only son, known as the Prince Imperial,
was killed in 1879 during the Zulu War; there-
fore the line of descent you mention could not
exist... .H.D.C.: Water-rat skins of good
quality are worth approximately 2s. to 2s. 6d
each in the Sydney market. There is no record
of their ever having made more than this
price W.A.M.C.; The number of railway
pensioners in Victoria under the old Act is
1702 H.T.: (1) Arthur Yates and Co., 184
Sussex-street, Sydney. (2) S. T. Leigh and Co.,
Raleigh Park, Kensington, Sydney... .N.E.G.:
In addressing a letter to the wife of the Gov-
ernor-General it is proper to commence “Your
Excellency” and conclude “I have the honor
to be your Excellency’s most obedient servant.”
The wife of a State Governor is not entitled
to the style “her Excellency,” this being reserved
for the wife of the Governor-General.. . .M.A.:
So far as can be ascertained there is no tartan
peculiar to the Allans or MacAllans; that of
the Clan MacDonald of Clanranald, of which
they are a sept, is in bottle-green, dark-blue
and red, with a white line. Try Grace Brothers,
Broadway, or Peapes and Co., 285 George-
street—both Sydney... .L.V.W.: (1) The Par-
ramatta-road toll-bar, which in 1857 was moved
to the city boundary, was still in operation in
the early ’seventies, but no exact records are
available as to the date of its discontinuance.
The last toll-bar in operation, on the Rand-
wick-road, was closed in the ’nineties. (2)
The funeral procession seen passing along the
Parramatta-road towards the city in the ’seven-
ties could have been neither that of W. C. Went-
worth nor of Archbishop Polding. Wentworth,
who died in England in 1872, was on May 6,
1873, accorded a State funeral; the cortege pro-
ceeded from St. Andrew’s Cathedral along
Park and William streets to the vault at Vau-
cluse. Archbishop Polding’s funeral left St.
Mary’s Pro-cathedral and proceeded along Col-
lege-street towards the Petersham cemetery
A.J.: Harry Searle, world champion sculler,
was born at Macleay River (N.S.W.) in 1866.
He won the championship from P. Kemp on
the Parramatta in 1888, and died from typhoid
fever at Williamstown (Vic.) on December 10,
1889, after returning from his triumphs on the
Thames, where he had vanquished all-comers.
. ...D.R.: Lieut. John Hamilton belonged to
the Ist Batt., A.I.F. He was awarded the
V. for “most conspicuous bravery” at Lone
Pine, Gallipoli, on August 9, 1915. .. .E.T.:
Condong means “blue fig”; Gerogery, “a
magpie”; Kembla, “abundant game”; and
Marianbone, “great place for cockatoos”—all
are N.S.W. abo. place-names... .P.D.: Local
Government Accounting and Finance, by
W. B. Rainsford, Law Book Co., Sydney;
25s E.J.D.: Yes, Watch’s Tasmanian
Almanac, J. Walch -and Sons, Hobart ; 7s. 6d.
W.L.: Australian agent for Gerald Duck-
worth, London, is J. B. Symons, Box 1578,
G. Melbourne... .S.M.; Boyveau and Che-
villet, 22 Rue de la Banque; Libraire Chadenat,
17 Quai des Grands-Augustins; Libraire Galli-
mard, 15 Boulevard Raspail; Desclee et Cie, 30
Rue St. Sulpice—all Paris R.W.: The col-
lector value of a (copper) twopenny piece of
George 111. dated 1797 is, if in mint condition,
Is. 9d.; if otherwise, 6d. Five-shilling pieces
of dates 1820 and 1822 (in mint condition) have
a collector value of 10s. each; if in less than
mint condition, but showing no sign of wear,
7s. 6d.; otherwise face value only A.F.:
Tyrrell, 281 George-street, Sydney, is prepared
to give a valuation and make an offer. Send
packed carefully between boards K.G.G.:
Wedgwood specimens too modern to interest
collectors. Value probably about 10s. each.
Consult local stores E.V.S.: The Bogan
Gate-Tottenham (N. S. Wales) Tailway was
opened in three sections: from Bogan Gate to
Trundle, August, 1907; from Trundle to Tulla-
more, December, 1908; Tullamore to Totten-
ham, October, 1916 W.J.H.: Nobody was
the loser, and nobody was the gainer. The
money to all intents and purposes was legal
tender, having been accepted as such by all the
parties in the chain of payments R.A.L.:
Write David Jones, Ltd., Castlereagh-street.
Sydney E.F.: (1) Number of words in a
10-minute sketch is approximately 1500. (2)
No definite rates of payment O.B.: Write
Queensland Government Tourist Bureau, 17
Martin-place, Sydney J.R.C.: The book has
no value... .H.A.: (1) There is a limited market
in Australia for Queensland graphite assaying
not less than 75 p.c. carbon; price about £6
per ton, delivered Sydney. (2) Frank Ham-
bridge, ore-buyer, Sydney, might be interested.
....(Many others mailed.)


The filter tip
all that!
“Try adu Maurier. You’ve no idea
how much richer and cooler they are ”
“Thanks, I
will. I have
HHF been longing to
>try them ”
%
%
66 1 didn’t know Virginia
could taste like this until
Freddie gave me one
‘ Well I suppose it stands to reason that if
you filter the smoke it’s bound to be cleaner
m
Would you like to discover Virginia
smoke again for the very first
You can, with the help of the du Majtirien
filter tip! By refining and cleansing
the smoke while the cigarette bums, this
exclusive tip rediscovers the/ natural
flavour. A new pleasure, a greay new
luxury in smoking is yours from/today.
du M
* ’J?
&
1
R|ER 20f0M6
C|C M* ETT *S
Also obtainable: 10 for 9d, 50 for lOO for MADE IN LONDON
“'GfcNIS KJK NEW SOUTH WALES AND QUEENSLAND: ST. JAMES TOBACCO DISTRIBUTORS LTD.. 188 uIAKENCE ST.. SYDNEY
ISSUED BY THE MANUFACTURERS OF DU MAURIER CIGARETTES, 217 PICCADILLY, LONDON, W.I
GC. if.
A MIXED GRILL.
“Fancar”: Touching on valuable pests,
hasn’t anyone made money by distilling
essential oil from that prolific fragrant
pest of black-soil land the pennyroyal?
Reading that the old Romans of Pliny s
day wore garlands of the herb to com-
bat the morning-after hangover, I plucked
a bunch to inhale when suffering a
vicious “head.” Perhaps Coue helped,
but the cure was a success, and others
to whom I’ve since given the remedy
report magic relief.
* * * *
“Tractor”: One of our local characters,
who switched to machinery after half a
lifetime with horses, still finds the old
urge strong. From before he even cranks
up his old T-model till the time he leaves
it at the end of the day’s trip he keeps
up a steady harangue: “Com on, lass!
It’s only a wee bit hill! Naethen to be
frichten aboot! Ut ye scut!” and so
forth. The “lass’s” pet name is Bella.-
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: Adelaide’s weekly “Mail” has
celebrated its 25th year. Clarence Moody,
now of Sydney, left the old “Register”
to be its first managing editor in 1912.
A Sunday paper was then considered
shocking in Adelaide, so the “Mail” has
always dated itself as of the Saturday,
and been on sale before midnight. The
difficulty of distribution in the suburbs
was got over long ago, and now swift
cars do night runs to country towns, with
a maximum (Port Lincoln) of 400 miles.
* $ $ *
“Wang”: Old Mac, an ex-imperial
Army regular, was emphasising the intel-
ligence of horses and their response to
teaching. “I attended the burial of the
colonel of the regiment,” he said. “My
job was leading his charger at the head of
the procession, and, though our old chief’s
passing was honestly mourned by all his
men, I think the horse felt the loss the
most. As we walked along the tears
ran down his face so much I had to
mop them up with my handkerchief.
Of course,” Mac continued, noting my
look of incredulity, “it was really nothing
out of the way. The officers’ chargers are
trained to do that.”
* * Sf. *
“Angstrom Unit”: “T.R.” (B. 19/5/’37)
seems to have been remarkably unlucky
in his experience in having a “not very
troublesome-looking ulcer” treated by
radium before the knife made a smooth
excision in five minutes. He says he had
“two shots” of radium and that it failed
to cure him “in months.” Actually, there
is very little failure with radium —the
percentage of cures of external ulcers and
suchlike is almost 100 p.c. of cases taken
within reasonable time. Radium and
deep X-ray therapy have cut down the
use of the knife enormously, and are en-
tirely responsible for the disappearance
of mutilated lips, cheeks and jaws, which
used to be. common not so long ago,
when the knife was the only remedy.
* * * *
“C.T.”: Kate Baker, for whom there
was an 0.8. E. in the Vic. Coronation list,
boarded with members of the Furphy
family in her schoolmarm days, a
happy chance which led to an im-
portant literary friendship. She dis-
cerned Furphy’s unique gifts, and
encouraged him. After his death she pub-
lished his verses. Furphy described her
as “a woman who has probably never
lost a friend, except by death.” A. G.
Stevens named her “Furphy’s gallant
standard-bearer.” Last year she was
presented with a bronze portrait plaque
by writers big and little in recognition
of her sincere and selfless services to
Australian literature.
* * * *
“Waranbini”: N.S.W.’s Tweed River,
which has been called the River of
Wrecks, is not likely to wreck any more
ships unless the bar, now silted up, is
reopened. The last craft passed out re-
cently, and a reminder of its glory days
is the old Emma Pyers, stranded on the
bank near Murwillumbah. Among the
20 or more vessels that found a grave on
the treacherous bar were the Ebenezer,
owned by the Boyds, four of which
family perished with her ; the Persever-
ance (the Tweed’s first steamboat), the
Panic, Bellinger, Pioneer, True. Blue,
Dollar Bird, Kent and Sussex (all
schooners); and the steamers Tweed and
Kurrara. The best of the river’s boats
was the Emma Pyers, built at Irvington,
Richmond River, in 1887. Forty years
afterwards she carried the present King
and Queen up the Tweed.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
J.C.L.: It shows some knowledge of human
attributes, but, regarded as verse, it falls short.
Z.V.W.: Only the rhymes pass muster
K.C.M.: That is exactly how two such charac-
ters wouldn’t act....J.C.5.: Rabbibcatcher’s
tirade failed to raise any laughs... .H.M.: That
opium-smoker doesn’t say enough, even in his
dreams Levite: The jerky style makes what
plot there is difficult to follow 8.W.: We’d
put the odds against the lovers meeting in the
water at several billions to nothing C. 8.:
That type of servant went out with antimacas-
sars C.V.S.: Just a tame little story....
Absinthe: You’ve crammed more unlikely coin-
cidences into three and a half pages than we
should have thought possible R. 8.: Nauti-
cal atmosphere right, but story doesn’t quite
make the grade R.A.A.: Didn’t miss by very
much A.T.N.: Humor a bit on the crude
side E.P.M.: Not strong enough G. 8.:
That O. Henry idea lacked the Master’s touch.
... .E.F.: Old woman’s drunken tantrums failed
to interest A.L.P.: Sketch lacked humor
W.E.C.: The fun is only fugitive F. 8.:
The melodrama outpaced the logic S.C.:
Nothing wrong with the telling, but yarn isn’t
good enough; uncompleted bit of verse unsuit-
able 8.0’C.: Based on a not-too-interesting
incident Shanghai: It is just one of several
stories we get each week with no particular
merits or demerits A.R.H.: Yours, too
Comma: Both borderline stories, but the scales
swing the wrong way... .H.E.H.: Even as nur-
sery rhymes they fall short C.W.P.: Respec-
table enough in their way—“ The Derelict Inn”
revives memories of Crabbe —but out of
our line P.W.: Both missed H.M.C.:
Labored M.M.K.: Failed to get past....
H. : That whirl of words left us wondering
what had struck us K.M.: Some feeling and
tunefulness, but they’re not for us. You might
have more luck with a magazine K.E.C.:
Seagulls may be “minions of the sea,” but
what you mean by “minions of the sun” has
us beat G.E.M.: —
1 read in this morning’s paper
That a friend of mine was dead.
We carried our swags in the ’eighties,
And how the years have sped!
They have a way of doing so S.W.: “Train-
jumpin’ ” ought to have provided material for
a swinging rhyme long before now. There’s no
swing in yours J.S.: Blank verse has to be
of unusual quality to get past. Yours is far
from that F.McC.: Trite this time....
P.J.1.: Conventional... .R.J.S.: Some good
humor there, but it goes close to libelling
public servants; trying to get other informa-
tion for you Gib. C.J.: “The man kept
on,” “the man drew back” —you used “the
man” about 80 times; and the story is too
melodramatic R.H.: Try to make your
characters talk more naturally E.J.D.:
Agree with sentiments, but regret we have no
niche for the article; try it on a daily
I. You worked out the fantasy well enough,
but the yarn doesn’t appeal L.S.P.
(Glasgow): Not interested in those “straight”
articles on U.K. traffic problems... .G.R.
(Eng.): We are too far removed from Eng-
land’s domestic politics to be interested in that.
Squirm: Only a fleeting grin in that
one Lawyer Vine: Too slight an incident
to hang a short story on A.F.H.: You drew
the agitator faithfully, but the lottery win was
a weak finish.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
R.T.: You’ve put an ankle-length skirt on
the navvy instead of moleskins M.P.L.:
Your cocky’s mo. looks like the wing of a
Stinson... .5.R.8.: Grandfather lost his top
set through laughing at that wheeze in ’B5
K.S.: Why is the fisherman angling with a
flagpole? M.N.: That was the first forget-
ful-plumber joke visited on the world R.R.:
Why the sugarbags tied to the boxer’s wrists?
N.K.: Build up your linework a bit and
you’ll be among the possibles 8.T.M.: A
vague smudge won’t cover up your weakness
in drawing a hand —give it plenty of practice.
....5.8.: A lady built in those proportions
would need, to walk at a 45deg. angle to main-
tain equilibrium C.A.: If that’s a fire-
engine then our old T-model is a tank....
F.D.V.: Your work is improving; you now
average no more than seven blots to the square
inch M.8.T.: Suggest you use a camel-hair
brush instead of a few tufts from a yard-
broom tied to a stick E.M.R.: Jokes on
lunatics are not to our taste.... W.H.A.: Your
ancient-car quip is clattering its way back to
the mulga F.M.: Better consult an opto-
metrist; your perspective is grotesque....
A.N.: Risible muscles failed to respond to the
he-she gag.


Stop
Constipation
HELP STOMACH
AND BOWELS
Constipation—called the Mother of Disease
—ls at last being successfully treated in a
new way that is safe, natural and unusu-
ally simple. Specialists have traced the
primary cause of Constipation to the con-
ditions known as self-poisoning, i.e., a
clogged colon. Modern foods which fre-
quently lack roughage, vitamins and essen-
tial minerals fail to give the bowels suffi-
cient exercise. As a result of this inactivity,
the colon (large intestine) fails to pass out
•f the body all the food refuse left over
from digestion. Fragments of food waste en-
crust on the colon walls—much as rust en-
crusts on a water pipe—and there decay.
The colon becomes hard, strangulated and
inactive. Poisons develop from decaying
encrusted matter and are absorbed into the
blood stream. These poisons circulating in
the blood cause headaches, depression,
bloating, indigestion and hosts of other dis-
tressing symptoms experienced by sufferers
from Constipation.
To get rid of Constipation you must first re-
move the encrusted waste matter on the
colon. The walls of the colon have become
semi-rigid because of this “human-rust”
deposit. Opening medicines only purge the
lower end of . the colon, leaving the upper
part unaffected.
So drink warm water and ‘Coloseptic’ every
morning. This simple plan cleanses the en-
crusted waste from the colon, tones up the
walls, giving them back their normal move-
ment. It corrects all acid conditions in the
stomach and bowels. ‘Coloseptic’ also
stimulates the actions of tho pores of the
skin and the lungs—vital organs which
eliminate poisons from your system. Once
the colon has been restored to normal
activity, you will be able to get full bene-
fits from your food with a consequent
gain in health, strength and vitality. Stop
Constipation—the basic cause of 95% of
disease —take ‘Coloseptic.’ At chemists—
Individual size, 2/9; Economy size, 5/6.
FREE SAMPLE
Send 3d. stamps for postage; a liberal Free
Trial Sample and interesting, intimate book
will be sent you. COLOSEPTIC (AUST.)
LTD., 26 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
h
CottMin
NOZAC PEN
Before you buy any pen see
the Conklin Nozac —the
world’s finest precision writing
instrument.
This perfect precision writing
instrument offers the revo-
lutionary Cushion Point, a
new scientific development
that makes writing easier and
smoother, modern self-filling
device that “Winds Like a
Watch,” new controlled feed,
visible Ink supply, the exclu-
sive Conklin Word Gauge, and
beautiful penline styling.
Once you have tried the
Conklin, you will want this
modern precision pen, the pen
that has everything. Conklin
Nozac Pens, Pencils and Sets
are on display at leading
Stores everywhere.
The Nozac Pens with Pencils
to match are available in Black
and in Grey, Red and Green
Pearl. The Pens are priced
at 22/6, 30/- and 40/- each.
Pencils to match, 17/6 and
25/- each. Complete Sets in
Presentation Cases, 40/-, 55/-
and 65/-.
Use Conklin Fountain Pen Ink
—the best for every pen—
4oz. Bottles in all Colours,
1/- per Bottle.
9
s
:
■
I
5
■
An important chapter in ocean travel has been
written by the Canadian-Australasian Line (Inc. in Canada). Since
1893 this trans-Pacific service has been a link between Australia and
Canada.
Calls are made at
AUCKLAND, N.Z.; SUVA, FIJI; HONOLULU, T.H.; VICTORIA, 8.C.;
and VANCOUVER.
Travel by this picturesque route to Europe!
Full particulars from: —•
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., LTD.
I INC. \
V IN N.Z. /
347 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
No. 18 of a series of articles on the great days of the Australian Ring.
From Foley to Darcy, and Darcy to
Henneberry, the best Australian boxers,
Jackson and “Griffo” excepted, have
been middleweights; and there were
never so many good ones about at the
same time as there were at the end of
the ’eighties and the beginning of the
’nineties. Fitzsimmons, Jim Hall, George
Seale—who, had he turned professional,
would have been a hot favorite against
either —Creedon, McCarthy, Tut Ryan,
Mick Dunn, Fogarty (“The Jaw-
breaker”), “Starlight” and Edwards, the
“sewerage champion,” have been men-
tioned ; but they did not exhaust the
list. Other capital fighters in the divi-
sion were Jim Ryan, Heffernan, Rich-
ardson and an amateur who left the
ranks of the lilywhites, “Pheasant.”
Of Jim Ryan, The Bulletin wrote in
December, 1899, after he had been six
years in the U.S.A., that he was “as
clever a boxer in his class as ever shed
a singlet. Withal he was possessed of
all the physical attributes necessary to
success in the ring; but he was un-
reliable.”
Its first impressions, set down on July
1, 1892, were: “Jim Ryan is too good-
looking for a fighter. When smart, good-
looking men feel their eyes closing and
their noses trying to smell their left ears,
they begin to think of what their best
girls will say, and then they go down.
Jim Hall for example.” Hall, a warrior
much sought after by the petticoats,
was accused of going down because of
the possible effect of facial damage on
Beauty. The accusation was repeated
when Jim Ryan took the count in the
second round of a fight with “Pheasant”
in 1892. He nevertheless got a match
with Dan Creedon, then in Sydney in-
tent on cleaning up all the resident
middleweights, before setting out for the
U.S.A. in quest of the world champion-
ship.
Creedon and Ryan boxed in October,
1892. Creedon’s showing was pro-
nounced “disappointing, even allowing
for want of condition. For the first few
rounds, Ryan had the better of the
exchanges, but he weakened, and at the
beginning of the seventh round surren-
dered. The result confirms the opinion
that Ryan does not care to risk his hand-
some mug before a hard-hitting oppo-
nent. A pugilist has no business to be
handsome.”
This aversion must have left Ryan in
the U.S.A. There in the course of ten
years he met allcomers, from welter-
weights to heavyweights, and he must
have taken some fearful hidings. Jim
Ryan’s boxing was so skilful and he
gave his patrons the worth of their
money so often that, although never
billed for a championship fight—in his
time Fitzsimmons was the recognised
middleweight champion, even after he
became heavyweight champion on March
17, 1897, and no middleweight cared to
meet Fitz until he had grown old—he
never went short of profitable matches
while he remained in the game.
Ryan had three fights with Joe
Choynski, and it was only in the third
—fought at New York in October, 1899
—that Choynski could stop him. This the
lightheavyweight who troubled all the
heavies and virtually knocked out Jack
Johnson did in seven rounds. Among
Ryan’s other opponents were Joe Wal-
cott, who failed to knock him out, and
Marvin Hart, to whom Jeffries was to
hand the heavyweight title after Hart’s
defeat of Root in 1905. Hart had already
gained a decision over Jack Johnson, a
far heavier man than Ryan. He pun-
ished the Australian so severely, though
the middleweight lasted six rounds, that
Ryan lost an eye. That, of course, ended
his ring career.
Tommy Tracey.
Tommy Tracey was Dan Creedon’s
foster-brother. In a reference to him
dated June 30, 1900, he was described as
“a clever gritty fighter when he left for
Yankeeland years since,” but it was added
that “he has done little good there. He
rarely manages to get away with the
right end of the purse ; he is either licked
or swindled or he has to put up with a
draw. Tom’s latest knock came last
month when he went under to Young
Peter Jackson.”
But Americans who remember those
days certify that “Young Peter Jackson”
was an exceptionally good middleweight,
and that Tracey was regarded as a repre-
sentative welterweight for years. He it
was who defeated “Griffo” for the first
time, though he claimed no credit for the
achievement, “Griffo” having entered the
ring not even slightly sober. One of
Tracey’s last fights in America was with
A 1 Neill, another middleweight, who had
knocked out Maoriland’s Tim Murphy
in 11 rounds at a time when Murphy
was regarded by some Maorilanders and
Australians as likely to bring back the
middleweight belt if there was one.
Tracey gave Neill a great fight, and news-
papers declared that he was leading on
points when he was adjudged the loser
on a foul in the fifteenth and last round.
In Australia a few years later, when both
were past their prime, Murphy actually
won the heavyweight championship and
Neill beat all but our best middleweights.
"Shadow" Maber.
A note published on May 17, 1890,
was to this effect: “The Sydney Amateur
Athletic Club brought off the second of
its contests on May 7, when William
Maber and John Fuller fought to a finish
for a £lOO purse, £75 to the winner, £25
to the loser. Maber is of the Billy
Murphy build, only more so. His legs
would disfigure a poor turkey and his
breastbone would put to the blush that
of a boarding-house fowl; but he gets
there just the same. He knocked Fuller
senseless in the twenty-fourth round.
Fuller never struck a blow worthy of the
name, and Maber, who is a very clever
boxer, hit him where and when he liked
after the first few rounds. The winner
hails from Adelaide.”
Maber and Fuller joined the pilgrim-
age of punchers whose Mecca was New
York. Fuller soon decided that there
was more money for him in teaching
than in boxing, but Maber stuck to the
ring. His most considerable success was
gained at the expense of La Blanche, con-
queror of the first Jack Dempsey.
"PSuto."
“Griffo’s” encounters with Pluto were
mentioned in the article on the Sydney
marvel. The pair met half a dozen times
in long-drawn-out slaughtering battles
which were exciting but rarely decisive.
They had other impromptu scraps in
the street and casual dust-ups in bar
parlors. Sometimes, however, they were
seen having a good time together. It was
only when fight was talked and the rela-
tive merits of the two were discussed
that the rumpus would begin.
Like “Griffo,” “Pluto” went to North
America, but he tried Westralia first. He
was one of the early birds on Coolgardie,
where Gerald and Tom Browne, sons of
“Rolf Boldrewood,” the novelist, and
other sporting young Victorians who were
associated with Bayley’s Reward took
him up, engaged him to improve their
knowledge of the noble art and backed
him for a fight or two.
Towards the end of the ’nineties
“Pluto” was back irt Melbourne, where a
paragraphist, who exaggerated a trifle,
described him as “almost the only Vic-
torian pug who has come out of the
game well. Going to the West, he made
enough out of fights to get into several
tiptop shows, and he returned to Mel-
bourne with a tolerable fortune. He
bought terrace properties, took unto him-
self a handsome wife, built a fine villa
at Middle Park and ran the nattiest dog-
cart in Melbourne.”
But the spirit of adventure had got
“Pluto” by the wool, and he went on
his travels again. The little darkie —he
was an African black—sought wealth
and fame in the Klondyke and found
neither. From the Yukon he went to
London, where he fought a featherweight
named Fielder in 1899, and after a pun-
ishing bout was defeated on points. He
found his way back to America, where
he was beaten, also on points, by George
Dixon, “Old Chocolate,” who, with
“Griffo” out of action, had as good a
right as anyone else to the featherweight
title —as was recognised when he was
matched for it with “Terrible” Terry
McGovern.
The bout with Dixon —it went 10
rounds—was “Pluto’s” best performance
overseas. Out of Australia, neither he
nor that other black featherweight Jerry
Marshall did anything to support the im-
pression that they were “Griffo’s” equals
or even in his class. After his wander-
ings, “Pluto” settled down in Perth. His
fighting sons, Cyril and Bill, have
inherited the wanderlust; Cyril has
gone to England and Bill has had most
of his fights in Maoriland.
Jack McGowan.
For a time “Pluto” was the protege ot
a Melbourne newspaperman. While he
was training for one of his fights a
cherubic-looking little lad made if his
business to attend the gymnasium at
which the African skipped, punched the


Serving ALL of
WESTRALIA’S
RADIO HOMES
6AM is the ONLY station
that can give you corn-
plete coverage. To in-
crease your profits use
6AM
Prince’s Chambers,
William Street,
Perth,
Western Australia.
Wonderful holiday tour to this
world of mystery and charm, by
way of Salamaua, Rabaul, Cebu,
Manila and Hongkong—return-
ing via the same ports with
additional calls at Saigon and
Sandakan. The m.v. "NEP-
TUNA" sails regularly from Mel-
bourne and Sydney. Excellent
cuisine and service sports
deck, swimming pool, etc. . . .
Fares are free of exchange.
At your request we shall be
pleased to forward folder No. 78.
BUHIVS,PHILP
S. CD. LTD.
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
Telephone: 87901
■1
: I
ill
i
% ml
m
4
312 Collins Street, Melbourne
128 Adelaide Street, Brisbane
i
m
c
‘Vat 69” has the merit of maturity. It has the
unvarying character of a true Scotch Whisky.
jFor “Vat 69” is matured and blended by William
Sanderson & Son Ltd., Leith, Scotland famous
'distillers since 1863.
“Vat 69” in Dump Bottles, Half Bottles and
Flasks- vs.*?
Distributors: John Woods and Co., Ltd., 388 Sussex Street, Sydney.
Sub Agents: Pitt, Son & Badgery, Ltd., 4 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
if any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price tor the original.
bag and sparred, watching the proceed-
ings with wide-open eyes. One day
"Pluto” was short of a sparring partner.
“I’ll put ’em on with you,” piped up the
small youth; and he made things so
willing for “Pluto” that the latter lost
his temper and struck out with all his
force.
The newspaperman dashed from his
chair and thrust his ponderous form be-
tween them. “You ought to be damned
well ashamed of yourself,” he thundered
at “Pluto,” “trying to knock out that
poor little boy!” “Po’r little boy!”
quoth “Pluto,” almost spent with anger
and his own exertions. “Po’r little boy
—po’r little boy nearly knocked my
ruddy head off!”
The poor little boy was Jack Mc-
Gowan, the most popular pug. and the
most powerful puncher for his weight
that Victoria ever raised. He wanted
only speed to be a world-beater; he had
every other requisite, but was a shade
too slow.
Thirteen years after that “spar” with
“Pluto” The Bulletin was writing of
McGowan in this strain:
“Sydney lightweights are suffering a
veritable McGowan scare. Though
they’ll go into a ring ostensibly to fight,
only the ropes prevent their getting out
into the street when Mac lays his ear
back and rushes. Deep-chested, power-
fully shouldered, sturdily underpinned,
and with the biceps and forearm of a
6ft. weight-lifter, McGowan’s appearance
is enough to win fights. Ex-Broken Hill
miner Mat Mitchie stripped trained to
the hour, and looking every way the
man for the job ; but, though a rough,
forceful fighter and apparently bubbling
over with grit ordinarily, he got the
shakes in front of McGowan, and laid
himself to keep as far off chances of
harm as possible. McGowan has been
fighting, as often as opportunity allowed,
for 12 years, is a twice-married man and
the father of two families, and yet looks
no more than a boy now.”
That was published on May 3, 1902.
In the intervening years McGowan had
gone to Johannesburg and tackled Jimmy
Murphy (they boxed a 15-round draw),
and, returning to Australia, had met
featherweights, lightweights, welter-
weights, even middleweights dozens
altogether—without having been once
knocked out. And his honest, engaging
phiz still bore no marks of his trade.
Broken - nosed and cauliflower - eared
members of the profession remarked on
this enviously, and allowed that Jack
was “clever with ’ees ’ead.” They ad-
mitted also that they didn’t like “fightin’
’im, ’cos w’erever ’e ’its ’e ’urts.”
“ ’E ’urt” most of his opponents severely
—knocked out Tweedie three times, also
two of the McKells, Charlie Frost, Mick
McCarthy, Mick McGuire, and many
others, and had heavier men like Black-
more and Bob Frazer limp at the end
of 20 rounds.
Interesting scrapper as he was, and
built for heavy weather, McGowan
would doubtless have done well had he
continued his travels to England and the
U.S.A. The best of the overseas light-
weights would have had a very remote
chance of stopping him in limited con-
tests. But he couldn’t tear himself away
from Melbourne for long. He was crazy
about football, and South Melbourne,
W'ith which he played occasionally, had
great teams in his time. “Sowth” sup-
ported him as loyally as he supported
“Sowth.” Critics of both protested that
they had a great deal in common —there
was as much fight as play about
“Sowth’s” methods of gaining victories,
and McGowan’s operations “in close”
were too reminiscent of “Sowth’s” ruck
work.
McGowan became lightweight cham-
pion in 1901, when Hegarty left for the
U.S.A. Bob Turner took the title from
him at Sydney in 1902, and successfully
defended it against him at Kalgoorlie in
1903 —incidentally, the pair fought for
a £275 purse.
At Kalgoorlie the same year he was
knocked out for the first and only time.
A junior lightweight by modern Ameri-
can reckoning, he had accepted a chal-
lenge to a bout for £5O a side from a
Westralian named Tom Dunn, who was
midway between lOst. and list. Gold-
fielders thought little of the match, and
stayed away in such numbers that the
“house” barely sufficed to pay expenses,
so the combatants were virtually fight-
ing for the side-wager.
McGowan had gone stale, and had
admitted as much to friends before the
fight. “I ought to be spelling,” he said ;
“I don’t seem to be able to duck under
a punch. Still I should be able to beat
Dunn.” But in the fourth round the tired
head failed to get out of the way of a
right swing which had all Dunn’s weight
behind it. It caught McGowan fair on
the chin, and he went down and
couldn’t struggle up.
All sympathy, the spectators crowded
about the ring and cheered when Mc-
Gowan’s seconds brought him round.
Dunn had shaken his hand and returned
to his own corner. McGowan staggered
from his chair and advanced towards his
conqueror, both hands extended for a
heartier grip. “Good luck to you.
Dunn!” he said, with a brave smile;
“go straight and you’ll do well.”
In 1904 McGowan broke his right arm
in a match at Ballarat —it was character-
istic of him that he went on fighting, with
the arm dangling helplessly until the
referee refused to let it go on —and he
had to retire. He returned to the ring
five years later, and beat a few of the
young fellows. While still youthful in
appearance, and not old in years, he. died
suddenly after a friendly spar. The cause
of death was a clot of blood on the brain,
and the damage must have been started
years before.
The Williams Brothers.
Tommy and Billy Williams were two
capital Victorian boxers and very fine
fellows. Tommy became lightweight
champion in 1891 by stopping George
Dawson in four rounds, and he had also
to his credit a victory over Jim Barron.
He went to England with Tom Burrows,
the. club-swinger, and the pair became in-
structors at Aldershot. Like Dawson,
Williams found this calling more attrac-
tive than the fluctuating business of box-
ing, but he had several fights at the
National Sporting Club, in one of which
he was mastered by the English cham-
pion, Jim Burge. On another occasion
he engaged a middleweight and, though
whipped, made such an excellent showing
that the nobility and gentry presented
him with £5O in addition to his share of
the purse. In after years he went to the
U.S.A., where he is reported to have
done well in business.
Billy Williams was instructor at the
Melbourne Athletic Club. No prettier
boxer has ever entered a Melbourne ring,
but he was not much of a puncher. Dur-
ing the cycling boom of the mid-’nineties,
Williams became a trainer of bike-
pushers, notably the Queenslander Bobby
Walne, whose pacing—from the scratch
mark—was largely responsible for
Charlie Kellow’s winning the Austral
Wheel Race and making his first punch.
When the boom burst, Williams went
back to boxing, and, though near 40, he
had looked after himself so thoroughly
that he was able to get a decision over
McGowan and take Hegarty to 20
rounds.
Billy Williams had four pretty daugh-
ters who were trained for the music-halls.
With the daughters as chief attractions,
he took a show round Australia—fighting
here and there when things had got slack
in the show business. The party went as
far as Manila, where they decided to stay.
The girls made good matches, and the
father got a comfortable job on the
American establishment.
Jimmy Anthony*
A note written on September 14, 1895:
“Jimmy Anthony, the plucky and clever
lad who downed everyone of his weight
in Australia, has been conquering the
Pacific Slope. Since landing in ’Frisco
five months ago he has fought four
battles, in one of which he knocked out
the previous Pacific champion. He now
goes east in search of new worlds to con-
quer. Anthony was brought out as a
boxer at the Melbourne Democratic Club,
where he was affectionately known as
‘Cleopatra’s bloke.’ ”
Jimmy Anthony was a bantamweight.
He boxed in the U.S.A. for seven years.
Most of the time there was no recognised
bantam champion, and Anthony had as
good a claim to the title as any other. In
fact, he rarely met his master, except
when he went out of the division—as he
did in Australia to fight Hegarty—or
made matches with vigorous youngsters
when he had seen his best days as boxer,
He never returned to Australia.


“El V.”: If anything could increase my
high opinion of Stanley Baldwin, it would
have been done by the tale of how his
wife produced a bag of gingernuts in the
middle of the Coronation ceremony with
the invitation, “Have one, dear?” “An
excellent idea, darling,” replied her
spouse. Only the English can do this
sort of thing, and only the English could
see their leaders do it without losing their
respect for them. It would be as much
as their dictatorships were worth for
Mussolini or Hitler to eat gingernuts at
a ceremony. But their greatness is based
on individualism, while England appears
to look on her great merely as part of the
machinery for the continuance of Eng-
land. What they do or is done to them
matters little so long as they do not out-
rage national ideals or moral standards.
* * * *
“Murkah”: One of the most interest-
ing of Telegraph Branch statistics is the
recent rise of Mother’s Day business.
Only a few years ago the department
took it in its stride; it wasn’t until 1935
that a Saturday-morning rush of traffic
took a full staff all day to clear. The
business of wishing Mum the best and
advising concerning a parcel has now
carried this Day’s lodgments past the
Easter-time figures, and placed it a good
second to the all-day rush of Christmas
Eve.
# • * # $
“Den”: Elizabeth Bay House is
poorly described by “Louis M.” as “a
characterless stone box” (B. 12/5/’37).
The famous old mansion is a particularly
excellent specimen of the late-Georgian
house —the last and not the least bril-
liant phase of that English architectural
tradition inaugurated by Inigo Jones and
carried on by a long line of successors,
from Wren to Nash and Sir John Soane.
The rooms of Elizabeth Bay House are
notable for their fine proportions and
dignified simplicity, while the famous can-
tilever staircase is the best of the type in
the world.
*l* H* K*
“Ampere”: There are many ways of
getting beer money. Armed with an
envelope addressed to a (probably)
mythical wife at Townsville, a Brisbane
derelict frequented the passageway of the
G.P.0., close to the posting boxes. The
envelope bore a single penny stamp.
With sadness oozing from every pore, he
put in a plea to every female who
approached for the other penny stamp
that would carry the letter to his wife.
Watching him I saw him draw the neces-
sary a dozen times in half an hour. He
never tapped a male, though.
t- * * *
“Hanko”: The Trnks in the prisoner-
of-war compound on Imbros Island,
though otherwise tractable enough,
couldn’t be brought to recognise that the
“lights out” signal meant a night-long
vigil in darkness. Their tents would
black-out and, immediately after, illu-
minate again. A well-placed clod and
Abdul would clamp a bucket down on
the lamp in the tent, wherein the occu-
pants were striving to play dominoes.
In spite of an ample supply of clods,
never once did we. succeed in getting a
complete fadeout in the compound. Of
course, Abdul stood a chance of having
his lamp confiscated, but we weren’t that
hard. Anyhow, clod-hurling broke the
monotony for us, and, even though it
mucked up his game, Mustapha always
recognised a direct hit by dowsing the
glim —pro tern.
* * * *
“Diggaire”: Even in 1867 a soldier
didn’t have to take part in actual fight-
ing to win the V.C. (B. 12/5/’37). In
that year Private Timothy O’Hea, of the
Ist Rifle, Brigade, was awarded the deco-
ration for “courageous behavior in help-
ing to extinguish a fire in an ammunition
train.”
“Exdig”: Like the V.C., the D.C.M.
was supposed to be only earned on active
service in war-time ; but one member of
the A.I.F. who belonged to a non-com-
batant unit secured the decoration at
Boulogne. He was the sergeant baker
who, when the A.I.F. bakery was hit
during one of the frequent bombing raids,
carried on with an emergency oven,
although wounded, and was responsible
for the bread supply being kept up to the
men in the line. As it was, the bread
ration was short for a while (“13 to a
loaf” was the issue on one occasion),
but we Diggers who grumbled at that
reckoned the bakery sergeant who had
prevented the position from becoming
worse fully deserved his D.C.M.
* * * *
“E.A.8.”: A Westralian Act, designed
to check the spread of the fruit-fly per
medium of backyards, defines an orchard
as any plot of ground containing one
or more fruit-trees or one or more
grape-vines. In conformity with its pro-
visions, a woman was proceeded against
the other week in a Perth police court
for having an unregistered orchard. She
claimed that there were only two trees
in her demesne —a fig-tree and a grape-
vine, neither of which had arrived at the
fruit-bearing stage. The case having been
adjourned until the following day to per-
mit of the production of further
evidence, the lady appeared with a suit-
case in which she had placed her up-
rooted “orchard” —neither of the ex-
hibits being 18in. high. Case with-
drawn.
:J: *
“Kwakprak”: The Nutrition Commis-
sion may get some real sense into the
public noddle about its food, but I doubt
if it will be in this generation. Beef-tea
and chicken broth, for example. Neither
is the least use as an energy-producer or
tissue-builder, for all the real value has
been thrown away with the flesh from
which they were made. The usual dry
toast which goes with them has far
more food value —in fact, a high value ;
which makes the cynic laugh when he
sees hopeful idiots using it as a “slim-
ming” aid. It is much more fattening
than plain white, bread. Oysters have
little food value —not as much as the
half-bottle of stout which often accom-
panies them. Teetotallers notwithstand-
ing, alcohol is a food —a stiff whisky is
equivalent to a couple of hard-boiled
eggs. Water can be actively poisonous to
people who have been sweating long and
heavily—“firemen’s cramp” is only
water-poisoning. Fats do not produce
body-fat, but body-heat. But tell any
housewife? Not me!
* * * *
“Uncle, M.D.”: A U.S.A. Accident Pre-
vention Committee has been doing work
of world-wide interest on the subject of
how car-drivers actually see the road at
even moderately high speeds. The human
eye is not really built for such a job, but
it is a wonderfully adaptable mechanism
up to 40-50 m.p.h. on good, straight, level
roads. The focal range is the basis of
the matter —that is, the eye-discernment
range of the individual driver in respect
of unsuspected ruts and obstructions or
other dangers in time to allow for them.
At 45 m.p.h. this is, for the average
competent driver, 1270 feet; at 50 m.p.h.,
1430 feet; at 60 m.p.h., 2000 feet, about
two-fifths of a mile. But the eye cannot
make an even series of adjustments.
They have to be done in jumps, ranging,
at the higher speeds, to several hundred
feet each. Between the jumps the driver
cannot see. what he is really travelling
over. On winding or hilly roads the
difficulties are greatly increased.
* * * *
“E 1 V.”: Chile has come forward with
a new scheme for reforming the calendar,
which has not been reformed for nearly
a couple of centuries. The year is
rh’virlprl intn frmr miarters each with 91
divided into tour quarters, each witnyi
days. Each quarter begins on a Sunday
and ends on Saturday. Each month has
26 working days. The 365th day of the
year is fitted in as an extra Saturday be-
tween December 30 and Jan. 1, and Leap
Year’s extra day is provided for in the.
same way between June 30 and July 1. It
is proposed to make the two “intercalary
days international holidays. The scheme
has its merits. Days of the week would
fall on the same dates in every year, so
that the calendar would be perpetual. But
it also has disadvantages. New Year’s
Day, for instance, would fall on a Sun-
day, when the pubs would be shut.
* * * *
“Lizst”: I have been reading Paderew-
ski’s memoirs in the “Saturday Evening
Post,” and, however much they may have
suffered in translation, they make one
wonder how the greatest musician of our
time, and to a great extent our fathers’
time, too, can have been so self-centred,
utterly humorless, feeble in his outlook
at anything beyond his own craft, and
so profoundly and unconsciously comic
—as a man. Perhaps, though, this is the
way of geniuses, piano-pounding or
otherwise. Pad. came to Australia first
in 1903, but he tells little about his con-
“ Will that be all, Mrs. Jones ?”
“It will if I 'ave anything to do with it!”
certs. His first grievance was that the
tucker displeased him ; though he stayed
in a first-class hotel he found the menu
“excruciating,” and had to live on pine-
apples until his wife hit on the notion
of going down to the markets o’ morn-
ings and buying and cooking stuff within
the fence of his rosewater preferences.
The Labor unions of those days grated
on his refined susceptibilities, too, by
making trouble about orchestra pay-
ments and a.m. meals in pubs and res-
taurants. In short, the eminent virtuoso
doesn’t seem to have taken away any-
thing from his first visit to Australasia
(which enriched him to the extent of a
good many thousands) except unpleasant
impressions—and 36 cockatoos!
* * * *
“Questo”: The doggerel quoted by
“Stoneleigh” (B. 12/5/’37) is hardly a
fair sample of Henry Parkes’s verse. He
turned out several rhymes which were
far from contemptible. Besides those in
Douglas Sladen’s collection, “The Buried
Chief,” which may be found in The
Golden Treasury of Australian Verse,
contains some fine lines, and Queens-
land’s Education Department considered
“The Australian Flag,” a spirited poem,
worthy of inclusion in one of its School
Readers.
“Eros”: There are four of Henry
Parkes’s poems in A Century of Austra-
lian Verse, edited by Douglas Sladen.
Three are pen-pictures of Australian
bush and mountain scenery, showing that
Parkes had interests beside politics. One
is called “A Mountain Grave, and was
doubtless inspired by his own desire to
be buried at Faulconbridge. Another is
entitled “Seventy ’ and is full of feeling,
* * * *
“R.W.D.”: From the orgy of ne s
paper rhetoric inspired by the Corona-
tion, here is a paragraph, culled from the
local rag, which impressed me deeply:
Then were beaten the drums. In their
mellow thunder one heard the ( drums ot
England that beat right round the world,
and the t ets sang tog ether even as
the mo rning stars till the sheer glory of it
all brought the people’s hearts to their
. lips, from which rose in united mighty
shoat > God Save King George! -
Another scribe, evidently
leanings, told the world, ap p
decorations. . .
oTTh^'spectS’^^rimi'ry red,
white and 51ue> are the med j a f or mam-
testing.
Red and blue may pass, but, so far as my
own scientific knowledge goes, white is
no more a primary color of the spectrum
than is brindle.
* * * *
“Captain Reece”: London “Daily
Herald” publishes a fishy tale regarding
the units of the new German navy which
h ave been patrolling Spanish waters. It
asserts that the pocket battleships, built
to suit Baltic conditions, are literally at
sea in the rougher waters of Biscay and
the Atlantic, so much so that ships are
now being relieved every four weeks. It
j s further alleged that the crews grow
restive at the idea of remaining at sea
for more than a few weeks and complain
D f the deprivation of home comforts,
The two German craft of this new type
which recently toured the world—visit-
ing Australia, among other places—gave
no evidence of unseaworthiness or dis-
contented personnel.
* * * #
“Twenty-seven”: There are some
authorities who claim that the Basque
language (B. 12/5/’37) comes down from
the Cro-Magnon era, and support their
theory by reference to the vast number
of proper names in the tongue. Even
to-day the language of primitive peoples
shows a preponderance of nouns. As to
where the Basques came from, there is a
chance that they may have been the
original Iberians, a fair-skinned African
tribe, but the idea that they came from
part of the American continent, now be-
neath the waves, should be reserved for
Rider Haggard romances.
:1c * * *
If metal prices go any higher
the possibilities of Lion Island, at the
mouth of the Hawkesbury (N.S.W.), might
be worth prospecting. This rocky speck
was for many years used as a target by
the Australian Squadron, and every yeaf
by the old Protector, the South Austra-
lian gunboat which used to furnish the
Naval Brigade with their annual deep-
sea thrills. The writer has dim memories
of bringing home an occasional 801 b.
shell from Lion Island as a curio. The
copper band round the base of the shell
was good copper, too, and there was a
big brass plug screwed into the bottom
of the projectile. Seeing that this location
is out of the orbit of the bottle-oh and
the scrap-iron merchant, it is just possible
that much of the old metal is still thera.
THE GREAT BARRIER REEF.
Here tourists come from far away;
With clacking tongues and prying eyes
They stare through water-glasses on
The seagods’ private paradise.
And on its flanks hang fishermen,
A hardy, dour and weathered band
That dangle hooks in opal lanes
And, chewing, spit in fairyland.
Those come to gape and gather stuff
To clutter dreary drawing-rooms;
And these to feed with rainbow fish
The wolf that on their skyline looms.
But, once a million years or so,
A poet comes to feel, to pray,
To take—though not with vandal hands—
The soul of fairyland away.
QUEENSLAND.
FREEMAN SANDOM.


THE
BERNARD CRONIN
STORY-WRITING
COURSE.
Mr. Cronin’s course is a masterpiece of
expert practicality. The components of
a story—theme, plot, openings, dialogue,
characterisation and description the
very names of which excite the imagina-
tion, and the awe, of literary aspirants,
are considered in detail with a wealth of
illustration and practical advice that at
once removes many of the more serious
obstacles from the path of the beginner.
The instruction is given in ten lessons.
Mr. Cronin’s own enthusiasm is so great,
his sympathy so large and his handling
of the practice work sent in so com-
petently confident that the interest' of his
pupils never flags. Those who have a
real flair for writing very soon make a
good job of every piece of work they
'end in. They are helped the more
inasmuch as they are not kept waiting
for their revised work.
It is true that pupils have to work.
Mr. Cronin is not content with less than
the best they can do ; and neither are
they allowed to rest content until he has,
by instruction and illustrative revision
of parts, trained them to polish and re-
polish until the whole is a finished piece
of work truly expressive of the writer’s
intention and individuality.
Later, in the advanced lessons, the
pupil is sometimes asked to return to an
earlier story, and in the light of his —
and frequently her—added experience
and increased knowledge, improve it to
publication standard. Mr. Cronin is
most insistent, however, on his pupils
submitting to editors none but good
work—not, of course, the best they ulti-
mately will do, but work of such a stan-
dard as will preclude the possibility of
their being classed by editors as per-
manent mediocrities.
The results are becoming increasingly
apparent. Some are given in detail in
"Friendships,” copies of which can be
had on request.
In addition to teaching story-writing,
Mr. Cronin criticises the MSS. of writers
who have had only a limited success.
This critical service has proved of great
value to many whose work, through
minor faults of construction or presenta-
tion, has just failed to get publication.
Mr. Cronin’s Story-writing Course is
fully described in an illustrated pamphlet,
‘Story Writing.” Copies will be sent
post free to any reader of The Bulletin
who would like one.
Letters can be addressed to:
BERNARD CRONIN,
398 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
y'
%
Sir Herbert Barker.
“I am convinced that
benefit beyond compu-
tation can be secured
by all who will follow
the directions given in the
Course. It is impossible
tc speak too highly of it.”
“Take Up Pelmanism
and give your life a
new Herbert Barker
“The key to a man’s
career Pelmanism”
*— Dr. Norwood , D.D.
® : v-
D,r. F. W. Norwood,
D.D.
“Pelmanism is sound
psychology and an ad-
mirable system of mind-
training. A proper grasp
of it would save any life
from futility. It teaches
that man lias the key to
his own career.”
Meeting Other
People
A full and happy life, no matter
what our calling or financial cir-
cumstances may be, includes the
meeting of other people easily and
comfortably on terms of mutual
respect and understanding.
We must know men. Plans,
enterprises, machines and material
are dead and meaningless until men
give them life and purpose. Even
knowledge and skill do not find
their full employment unless their
possessors are in happy relationship
with other people.
Ability to meet people,, to talk
well, to impress others favourably,
is part of the necessary equipment
for many callings, but, whatever
our occupations may be, every one
of us should, in our homes,
amongst those we work with, at
games, in all our contacts with
other people, either casual or pre-
arranged, seek to meet others with-
out self-consciousness on the one
hand or self-assertiveness on the
other hand, should acquire those
habits of mind and body that help
us to comport ourselves with ease
and confidence, capably and agree-
ably, whenever and wherever we
may be with others.
The Pelman Training provides
fully for this very important aspect
of pleasant living. In addition to
quickening the sense perceptions,
thus providing material for conver-
sation and making us aware of the
responses, individually and collec-
tively, of those in whose company
we are, the Course specifically dis-
cusses the states of mind and emo-
tional conditions that determine our
attitude towards others, the causes
of undue sensitiveness in ourselves
and in others, the ego conscious-
ness that robs us of our sense of
proportion and magnifies the sig-
nificance of our own feelings and
opinions, and, in particular, of our
own mistakes. The Pelman Train-
ing emphasises the importance of
the objective life, of participation
in what is going on around us, of
thinking outside ourselves, it dis-
cusses the place of dress, manner
and deportment, and pays particular
attention to the control of the voice
and the use and enlargement of
the vocabulary.
This is only one of the effects of
(he Pelman Training, the culmina-
tion of which is a psychological
explosion that frees the mind of
self-consciousness and the body of
awkwardness.
ANEW beginning and a key to the gateway beyond which
are the people and the experiences we seek! That is
living life at its fullest, with zest and anticipation, with vigor and
energy; feeling each morning that: “There’s something afoot
to-day, and I am in it,” and able at night to say, ‘‘Well, it
happened, and I was in it.” With the “new beginning” and
the “key,” each life has its definite purpose, each day its own
enterprise, each hour its special interest.
The Pelman Course gives life a
new beginning, because, by train-
ing natural aptitudes, developing
inherent qualities, and increasing
individual capacities, it extends
the personality in every direction.
The Pelmanist, whilst fully and
effectively using the business
methods, systems, implements or
tools peculiar to his calling, stands
apart from them, above them,
competent in himself, glad of them
at times, but not lost without them,
able to look with seeing eyes at any
opportunity that presents itself,
no matter in what direction it lies,
quietly confident in most circum-
stances and not often fearful in
any.
The most important of the
qualities referred to and developed
by the Pelman Course are: —
Self-Confidence,
Concentration,
Self-Control,
Judgment,
Will-power,
Tact,
Initiative,
Social Ease,
and a good memory for faces,
figures, names, appointments,
places, and useful data of every
kind.
Many of the qualities stated
and implied in what has been
written are found in the older
men and women socially apt or of
proved competence in their call-
ings. The Pelman Course of
Training extends these qualities
so that they are manifested, and
thereby further developed, in un-
usual circumstances and in unac-
customed environments. Younger
people are helped to a steadiness
and confidence that even years of
successful occupational experience
and acquaintance with life may
not fully develop.
These aspects of the Pelman
Course of Training are empha-
sised by many prominent people
and by thousands of men and
women who have enrolled for the
Course with the Institute. Their
opinions are published in “The
Efficient Mind,” 76 pages, which
fully describes the Pelman Course
for the Scientific Development of
Mind, Memory and Personality.
Copies are posted free on appli-
cation to
THE PELMAN INSTITUTE,
3 Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Lane,
Melbourne. Telephone: MU2355.
We shall be glad to send
readers a copy of “The
Efficient Mind,,” 76 pages, post
free. You can write us fully,
or you can make just a bare
application by using or copy-
ing the form alongside. Your
inquiry will be regarded as a
confidential communication;
we have no outside representa-
tives.
To the Pelman Institute, 3 Gloucester House,
396 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
Please send me, free and post-free, a copy of
“The Efficient Mind.”
Name
Address
468.
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK’S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
fg
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living out side Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
\ lA*
.. S e >
# S ' •••'
GO
e
■o vV
0<
v o
O'
s'-
,\*>°


THE MUTUAL LIFE AND CITIZENS’
ASSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
FO UNDED 1886 .
A Wonderful Jubilee Year
The M.L.C. takes pleasure in announcing that
the results for its fiftieth year surpass all records.
STRENGTH
ASSETS exceed £25,000,000, of which
over 83 per cent, was represented by
Government, Municipal and Local Body
Loans, and Loans on Policies.
The valuation of the actuarial liabilities
was made on strictly pure premium bases,
the rates of interest assumed being 2i per
cent, for the Industrial Branch, and 21 per
cent, for the Ordinary Branch. These
rates are unsurpassed for strength in
Australia.
PROGRESS
I he new Ordinary Branch
business written was .. £7,047,49)
The new Industrial Branch
business written was .. 3,798,079
£10845,570
* ■ -
representing a 33 per cent, increase over
the previous best figures.
The increase in funds was
£1,274,557—the largest in the
Company’s history. The total
income increased by £409,207
(the largest increase on record)
to £3,744,515.
GOOD MANAGEMENT
Economy. Notwithstanding the
record increase in business written, the
percentage of income absorbed in
expenses was only 10.04 in the Ordinary
Branch, and 25.07 in the Industrial
Branch.
Light Mortality. - The mortality
experienced was again extraordinarily
light.
Sound Investment of Funds. —
The effective rate of interest earned on
funds and reserves was £5/0/1 per cent,
in the Ordinary Branch, and £4/17/4
per cent, in the industrial Branch. Out-
standing interest at the end of the year
amounted to £6OOl, on assets of over
£25,000,000, and none of it was brought
into account as an asset.
THE RESULT
The M.L.C has been able to maintain
the high bonus rates paid for the year
1935.
Example.— -Whole of life policy in
the Ordinary Branch, age 30 at entry:
Reversionary Bonus for the first
year, £2/5/- per cent., increasing to
£4/2/- per cent, for the 30th year.
TRUSTEES
JOHN DONALDSON, A.1.A., Melbourne.
The Hon. Sir JOHN B. PEDEN, K.C.M.G., M.L.C., Sydney.
Sir GEORGE JULIUS, K. 8., B.Sc., 8.E., Sydney. The Right Hon. W. A. WATT, P.C., Melbourne.
The Hon. F. W. EGGLESTON, Melbourne. J. S. WILSON, F.1.A., Melbourne.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
Managing Director.
W. J. BLOOMFIELD, 8.A., L.L.8., Joint Managing Director.
JAMES ASHTON, Chairman.
F. LEVERRIER, K.C., 8.A., B.Sc.
m. Sir HENRY Y. BRADDON, K.B.E.
