

CO-OPERATION IS THE ONLY
SAFE DEFENCE POLICY!
AS IN 1914, THE BRITISH NAVY IS STILL
AUSTRALIA’S FIRST LINE OF DEFENCE
Lyons’s Defence Policy, which is based on EMPIRE CO-OPERATION,
means that, if Australia were threatened with attack, the whole might of
Britain would be on our side. Our shores would remain inviolate.
Curtin’s policy of ISOLATION means that Australia would be alone and
friendless in a world where one lonely and friendless nation after
another has been mercilessly attacked and beaten to the ground.
Lyons’s policy is Security. Curtin’s policy is tantamount to National
Suicide. That is the choice before you on October 23.
VOTE FOR THE
United Australia Party
For the SENATE- CD ARKINS [2] HALL LU HARDY R] HELMORE
Authorised by H. W. Horsfield, 30 Ash Street, Sydney. num^er every
other square also.
The Bulletin
VoL 58.—N0. 3010.
Wednesday, October 20, 1937.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


DYMOCK’S NEW LIBRARY CATALOGUE
FOR 1937
is now ready and will be forwarded post free with
terms and particulars on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
“The Black,” 424-426 George Street, Sydney.
The Red Page
LITERARY COMPETITIONS.
Current Bulletin literary competitions are the
S. H. Prior Memorial Prize and the Screen Story
competition.
Prize-money for this last totals £155. The com-
petition is being run in conjunction with Cinesound
Productions, Ltd., which Australian picture-makers
seek a story out of which a good film can be con-
structed. They offer £lOO, and will buy other stories
suitable for films.
Scenarios are not wanted, and will not be read.
The Bulletin offers prizes of £3O, £l5 and £5
for the three best stories submitted, with a special
prize of £5 for the best brief story of up to 1500
words. Length of stories generally is restricted to
6500 words. Prize-winners will be published and paid
for at Bulletin rates in addition to the prize-
money, and any other stories considered suitable for
publication will be bought.
Because the judges could find no story which
they considered up to S. H. Prior Memorial Prize
standard no award was made this year. By a condi-
tion of this Prize the amount —£100 annually—adds
on to next year’s award, which will be £2OO. The
competition will be for novels ; closing date, June 6,
1938.
Full particulars of both competitions can be had
on application.
New Fiction.
Josephine Lawrence’s The Sound of Running
Feet (Harrap ; 7s. 6d.) is set in the real-estate office
of Rivers, Mead and Luth, New York; time,
depression.
The drama is of people struggling to maintain
their standard of living and get their share of good
standards in a shrunken world. Greg Marsh leads a
rather inept campaign for better money and better
working conditions. While the contract he presents
on behalf of the juniors lies on Victor Luth’s desk
the author dips into their private lives.
Greg has staked his self-respect on his plan; he
needs the victory as much as the money. Johnny
Palmet, heavily in debt, has a wife who is always
indulging herself in something—an imitation fur coat,
appendicitis, nagging and, on one occasion, a disin-
fectant as a safe suicidal gesture. Mureth Gavril
dreams of getting away from home and her mother,
even if it means living on milk and bananas. Kati
Oliver is a young married woman whose husband
cannot earn enough to keep her.
Paul and Victor Luth are also struggling to make
ends meet in the crisis. They have private commit-
ments, and life is as difficult and anxious for them
as for anyone else. Victor Luth delivers the ulti-
matum. The firm will increase the juniors’ salaries
if the senior members will take a cut. The two
sections can fight it out.
Now the senior staff. Camden Phillips has had
three major operations; if he is to live he must have
a fourth. Estie Morris is no longer young, the future
looms over her, and there is Papa and his regrettable
weakness. Jim Andrews has dependent relatives and
a clever and adored daughter who must go to college.
And so on. They cannot agree to the wages cut, so
the contract falls through.
All the characters are convincing and awake
sympathy because their difficulties are genuine, a part
of everyday life. The eighteen-year-old typist,
Mureth, is a little masterpiece in character delineation.
Charles Lome’s new novel, Nocturne in Sunlight
(John Lane; 7s. 6d.), is a story of love and adventure
in Mexico during the last months of the reign of the
Hapsburg prince Maximilian —and his consort, Car-
lota —set up by Napoleon 111. as Emperor.
The book is a double-decker: on one level there
is the imperial tragedy; on another the concurrent
love-story of a handsome young French painter,
Julian Braie, and Mary Fiske, an American dancer,
who both become enmeshed in events in Mexico.
The story out of history ends in death and madness,
the fictitious one happily in love, marriage and safety.
Maximilian was the younger brother of Franz
Joseph of Austria ; his wife was a daughter of Leopold
I. of the Belgians. Nothing could have been more
bizarre than to set up these two young people as rulers
of Mexico.
Napoleon grew tired of play-acting, found it
expensive and withdrew his troops. Maximilian lost
what little support he had locally by promulgating
a harsh edict establishing the death penalty for
sedition. Without money or troops his position was
hopeless. The Empress Carlota went to Europe, beg-
ging at the Courts for help. She was repulsed, and
her reason gave way under the strain. There were
risings, but Maximilian, as a man of honor, refused
to “desert his people.” He was caught with his tiny
following at Queretaro between two armies. He was
betrayed, given a mock trial and executed under his
own edict.
That story should be meat enough for a novel
without the intrusion of fictitious painters and dancers.
The sub-plot weakens Nocturne in Sunlight and
detracts from its reality. It can scarcely be classed
as a historical novel, for there is no evaluation of the
material, no appreciation of the real tragedy, which
was that an empty gesture had to be paid for in
suffering and death. Consequences are never fully
envisaged, rights and liberties are not taken into
account. “Ruritania” might suit the author better.
As to the writing, his style is adequate but undis-
tinguished.
Sarah Salt’s Murder for Love (Peter Davies; 7s.
6d.) contains two short novels, the title piece and
“God Has Had Pity.” The subject of each is a murder
that might be called justifiable. The author deals
neither in detection nor mystery. Her drama is of the
mind, not of bloodshed.
In each story the murder appears as something
almost negligible beside its consequences. The first
story is the study of the after-effects of murder on the
murderer; the other of the events that led a wife to
murder her husband.
In “God Has Had Pity” Ann Fortune kills her
grandmother, a terrible old woman who in her
drunkenness and insanity has preyed upon Ann’s
youth and upon her mother’s happiness. Everyone in
the house secretly prays for her death. Ann gives her
a second sleeping draught after her mother had already
given her one.
No one suspects, the doctor says he was expecting
the death; only Ann’s mother torments herself, won-
dering if she had been careless in measuring the
draught. Remorse comes on Ann slowly, overwhelms
her. She drags her mother down with her, and at
last becomes insane.
The story is made convincing by its detail. The
unbearable situation which is created by the old
woman’s death is fully driven home, and the process
of decay in Ann afterwards is substantiated by many
subtle yet concrete touches. The horror of the story
is that of a trapped creature.
In the story of the woman who kills her husband
the frustration, misery, cruelty and utter boredom
that lead to the event are built up by one pitiless
detail after another into a convincing whole. It is
almost a relief when the man is struck down at last.
Both stories are told simply but with quiet inten-
sity. The style is dry, lucid and circumstantial. There
are no digressons. This is very effective. The treat-
ment and the deep, almost scientific psychological
interest involved offsets the morbidity of the subject-
matter.
l
Musical Chains, by Eugenia Wake (Constable ;
Angus and Robertson ; 7s. 6d.), is set in Germany.
Chief characters are Dr. Zenker, music-mad
and the owner of a sanatorium for consump-
tives ; Konrad Graf, a violinist of international
fame and a man of great tenderness of heart;
Lutz Faber, aged 14, a patient of Zenker’s
through the charity of Graf and a highly promising
pianist; and, towards the end of the tale, Vanek, a
once-famous pianist, now on his uppers.
Lutz Faber is desperately poor and desperately
sick. Graf becomes interested in him through hearing
him play, and the boy grafts his life on to
Graf’s. He is hysterical and an insufferable little
egotist, but his abilities and his attachment to
“Meister” are both genuine. Graf fosters the first
and yields to the latter, sacrificing his own career to
some extent in order to give the boy his companion-
ship. The years pass, and they appear on the plat-
form together, Faber as accompanist.
The youngster’s tyranny over Graf tightens. He
must go with him everywhere; Graf must never play
without him. The older man makes a couple of
attempts to break away. Faber weeps, he gets
drunk, he has hysterics, he “commits suicide” by
jumping out of a window about eight feet from the
ground on to his head, he smashes a mirror in a
very inexpert display with a revolver. Graf is stern
with him, but he breaks that down by playing some
of the old airs with which they first appeared together
before the public.
The writer maintains a nice balance between
sympathy and humorous detachment. But perhaps
it is a novel purely for musical people.
F. D. D.
A WAITER TELLS.
Name, Dave Marlowe ; his book, Coming, Sir!
(Harrap ; Bs. 6d. net). Rattling good autobiography ;
amusing, entertaining and interesting to read; a great
variety of characters met in casual encounters on his
job and vividly recalled; variety of scene ranging
from West End hotels to New York speakeasies; the
whole served up in a manner —combination of frank-
ness, naivete and discretion —that carries absolute
conviction. In a word, alive.
Background out of which the waiter-to-be
emerged included a Hampshire seaport; a father who
had been following the sea for 35 years and still does ;
a grandfather who fell dead in a P. and O. saloon,
having strained his heart singing “Annie Laurie” ;
and a back room packed with old sea-chests, cast-off
uniforms, stuffed foreign birds, shells from Zanzibar,
wild beasts’ horns from the Cape, wicker chairs from
Madeira, glass curtain from Bombay.
Of course, he went to sea. Soon he was a saloon
waiter, bootlegging grog into U.S.A. as a sideline.
His philosophy of a kind that has kept him pretty
well always broke, but neither a misfit nor one
obsessed with any highfalutin notions of wanderlust,
he yet, from all sorts of causes, moved often enough
from job to job to keep his story always lively. Some-
times it was because he was sacked, often because
he’d got into scrapes, once because the New York
“saloon” he was barman in was held up and he did
not want a repeat experience of facing the wall with
a gun pointed at his back by a gangster’s sidekick
filled to the eyes with dope.
He was for years in a New York night club
owned by Rudy Vallee that approximated to the
lavish affairs depicted in the talkies. American road-
houses ; “whoopee-cruises” with “sugar daddies” and
their inevitable blondes; London, and pretty party
doings of the aristocracy and thereabouts; a pub
where the boss’s wife ruled the alleged boss with
fusillades of bottles; English seaside Meccas for the
middle-aged—a vivid variety out of a crowded, happy-
go-lucky life.
A WORD FOR NIPPON.
Francis de Croisset, the French playwright, last
year visited China and Japan. His impressions make
up a series of terse essays, published, in an English
translation by Paul Silver, as The Wounded Dragon
(Godfrey Bles ; Bs. 6d.).
De Croisset found a lot to disgust him in China —
no taxis in Shanghai; the brain from a living monkey
scooped out and served up warm and quivering as a
delicacy in Canton ; a shoddy imitation of Western
civilisation in Nanking ; past glories of art and archi-
tecture destroyed and ruined in Peking. Everywhere
risk to health and life through infected drinking water
and the bites of mad dogs. Outside the cities, and
even in the outskirts of Peking, a plague of bandits.
In Manchukuo, where M. de Croisset had an
interview with the Emperor, he found adequate sanita-
tion, no mad dogs and no bandits. Everything clean.
Japan, he says, appropriated Korea and Manchuria
and is gobbling up Mongolia because it had to.
In the bad old days its population, like that of China,
was kept down by virulent epidemics. Now, as the
Japanese themselves say, there are only the earth-
quakes to fall back on, and the natural increase is
900,000 a year.
Nippon, he says, is not the Germany of the Far
East—she is the England. “In both these illustrious
islands the same imperialistic ideal holds sway.”
SHORT STORIES.
In A Case of Conscience (Gollancz; 7s. 6d.),
Martin Armstrong gives good entertainment —if no-
thing more.
The range of subject runs from a conscientious
murder to —in “A Trip to the Absolute” —a descrip-
tion of a traveller’s snores.
Between these extremes the yarns cover matri-
monial entanglements, in which the woman is invari-
ably cast as a vampire ; fantasy, in which a man learns
to float in the air, greatly to the surprise of his vicar
and others; elaborated jokes, like “A Poem of Fire” ;
studies in psychology, like “The Dryad” and “The
Extortioner” ; and the lightest of light satire, gener-
ally at the expense of modernism in art and literature.
Among the last-named is one of the neatest. The
narrator finds himself in a railway carriage with a
man who appears to have St. Vitus’s dance, but it
falls out that he is a modern composer in the throes
of his art. He is trying to purify his music from all
taint of harmony and rhythm—he wants to get as
far as he can from such lowbrows as Mozart and
Debussy. He is so single-minded in his pursuit of
perfection that he hasn’t yet written anything. The
narrator--a wag —suggests to him that he may be
for that very reason the world’s one genuinely modern
composer, its greatest living musician. After some
discussion the composer accepts the viewpoint —and
his worry then becomes how to apprise the world of
the fact.
Armstrong has an informal manner of narra-
tion, telling his stories often in the first person. They
appear as random memories or are embedded in after-
dinner conversation. A railway carriage is a favorite
setting; so is the boarding-house with its ephemeral
population.
There is the feeling that the stories are written
to please, and that they always cover ground pre-
pared in advance by much that has been written
before. Once Armstrong was an experimentalist, but
his adventurousness seems to have departed. How-
ever bright and neatly turned the stories, they are
always conventional.
D.
Serenade for Sally : Joan Kennedy (Robert Hale ;
3s. 6d.). Sally—like Cinderella —has a wicked step-
mother and cruel stepsisters. The young squire plays
the fairy prince, but not before Sally has had many
troubles —including a baby that she didn’t want but
was glad of in the end.
The Crooked Coronet: Michael Arlen (Heine-
mann ; 7s. 65.). Short stories that are in the main an
extravaganza of English high life. Tedious in places,
faintly amusing in others. Take away die writer’s air
of sophistication and almost nothing remains.
Under the Sun: Herbert G. de Lisser (Ernest
Benn ; 7s. 6d.). Beautiful young English girl’s adven-
tures in the alluring isle of Jamaica. Ends with a
double wedding. Writer has a somewhat prancing
style, but is familiar with the Jamaican scene.
Policeman in Armor: Rupert Penny (The Crime
Club • 7s 6d.). Serio-comic crime detection. The
donor of the last addition to Mr. Justice Everett’s
collection of curious knives left it sticking between
his ribs. The author collects the evidence and calls
on the reader to say by whom, how and why the
murder was committed. The answer justifies the
reader’s pains.
Mad Coyotes: Daniel Ward (Wild West Club ,
7s. 6d.). Rustlers infect coyotes with rabies, so that
the ordinarily timid creatures attack both men and
cattle. Rancher Hammond has a lively time before
he masters the situation and marries the girl.
Renegade Range: H. A. Woodbury, and Seven
Slash Range: Bennett Foster (Robert Hale ; 3s. 6d.
each). Good lively tales of adventure on the open
range. The heroes are hard ridin’, straight-shootm
guys, but always on the side of the right.


‘TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”—AIways.
“THE SENIOR STORE.’
Famous Low Prices
20 DAYS’ GENUINE SPRING
*»>■'
AS*
Use our D.P.S. to secure
any of these Sale bargains.
Just send one-fifth of the
complete purchase price as ,
deposit and pay the balance
in weekly or monthly in-
stalments. It’s such an easy
way to buy if you find it
inconvenient to make the s
whole cash outlay at once.
10/6 British Poplin Pyjamas
Smart summer wear in Pyjamas of
colourful stripes in Blue or Grey tones.
With polo or sports collars. Small,
medium and outsizes. Price .... 10/6
Sale Price
96
9/6
A
9a
/
o
5/6 White Soft Shirts
With collar and pocket
attached. Anthony Hor-
derns' own make, in a strong
British Mercerised Twill.
Sizes 14 to 18 neck. Price 5/6
Sale Price 4/11
41l
H&,
r
:
m
m
3/6 Men’s Half Hose
Fancy Cashmere Half Hose
in a new range of dressy
designs, in Grey, Blue or
Brown tones. Sizes 1 0 to
12.. Price 3/6
Sale Price 2/6
26
MEN’S ATH. SINGLETS
You’ll be perfectly comfortable in Athletic
Singlets this summer. These are made of
White Cotton in an elastic rib knit. Sizes
34in. to 42in. chest. ,
Sale Prices ".1/6, 1/11, 2/6
Summer-weight Underwear
Underpants, Trunk Drawers and Undershirts with short
sleeves. Sizes 34 to 44 chest or waist. Best finish
natural wool and cotton with flatlock seams. Price, 7/6.
Sale-Price ......... - .......... '• V*
sd
*
H
hi
6'6 The Bushman
Shirt
The “Bushman” Work
Shirt in a durable British
Oxford weave. With collar
and pocket attached. In
Fawn-Heather and Blue-
Heather shades. Sizes 14 |
to 19 neck. Price ....
Sale Price
5 ll
6/6
5/11
■
& . sS
wm
:\X.
‘b
441
m
lilllft
35/- Art Silk
Dressing Gowns
A weighty
d o u b 1 e-j
weave
corded
silk, with
Q 9
self satin
facings. New coin spot
designs on Navy, Royal, Wine
and Black. Also figured self
tones of AVine, Navy and
Maroon. Sizes 36 to 44 chest.
Q Men’s Mercery —
Ground Floor,
George Street.
Freight paid to all
railway stations in
N.S.W. and seaports
in the Common-
wealth.
ANTHONY HORDERN and SONS LTD.,
’Phone: M 2401.
Day and Night
SYDNEY
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C, G.P.O.


Last Chapters of a Light-hearted Serial
NO TRAIN ON TUESDAY
By J.B.BLAIR
ILLUSTRATED BY UNK WHITE.
AUTHOR’S NOTE:
As far as / am aware there is no town
of Terrigan either inside or outside N.S.W.
If there is a billygoat named Baldy 1 have
never met him, and any resemblance which
he or any other persons may find in the story
to himself or themselves is entirely fortuitous.
CHAPTER IX.
BERRIGAN rose very late that morning, and
with a record crop of colds in the head.
Anxious families who had been up all night
awaiting the return of the boats’ crews were
at last able to welcome them back from
the jaws of death, or at least from the
friendly hospitality of the crew of the trawler,
expressed in terms of hot coffee and eggs and bacon.
The first boat’s crew to arrive alongside the
dee-stroyers ’ had recognised them as fishing trawlers,
and, being well-nigh exhausted by their labors, had
readily accepted the trawler skipper’s invitation to
“come aboard till she fines up.”
Once aboard they could see no sense in rowing
back to the beach, and after joining them the second
crew were of the same mind.
The trawlers had now weighed anchor and put out
to sea. The night s doings had given the people plenty
to talk about, but another topic arose to thrust it into
the background. The troops were leaving Thatcher’s
Siding.
It was true enough. The special train had arrived
unannounced at Terrigan, as before, and was now on
its way back to the camp to commence entraining
the men. From the first flush of daybreak the soldiers
had been breaking camp, and already the mechanised
units had left by road.
Terrigan was overjoyed. It felt that it had won
a glorious if bloodless victory.
“It’s a triumph of spirit over force. That’s what
it is,” maintained Napper to Buckenara, his own spirits
revived once more.
“The guard told me their fortnight was up and
they had to get back to work,” said the stationmaster.
“Oh, yes. He told you that. And no doubt
that’s what they told him, and what they’ll tell the
public ; but don’t be hoodwinked, Buckenara. You
and I know better.”
The schoolmaster was soon here, there and every-
where, visiting Mutton, looking for Dick Taylor,
’phoning Mr. Peperell and making hurried arrange-
ments for a meeting of Cabinet that afternoon.
“What’s up with Mr. Napper now?” Sally Petti-
grew asked her father as they sat together at lunch
in the dining-room of the Royal. “Does he want
more schools and post offices?”
Hiram swallowed a large portion of steak-and-
kidney pie before replying.
“Aw, it’s nothing like that,” he said. “He just
wants us to pass a few more resolutions, I guess.”
“If he doesn’t want any money it’ll be a change.”
“Aw, he’s not such a bad guy when y’ get t’
know him, Sally.”
“You don’t mean to tell me you’re getting to
like him!”
The guy’s got his points.” Then with a burst
of confidence Hiram added: “I’m gonna put up a
proposition of my own that oughter tickle ’em.”
“What is it?”
Her father seemed mightily pleased at having a
secret to himself.
“You’ll know all in good time,” he told her.
All Sally’s pleadings could draw nothing further
from him. At last she asked: “When will Jerry be
back? Don’t you think you’d better wait till he’s
here?”
“How do I know when he’ll be back? Why
should I wait? Can’t I run my own affairs? Let me
tell you, my girl, I built up my pickle business from
nothing, an’ I could do it again to-morrow if I had
to. You leave me alone, I know what I’m doing.”
ABINET met late that afternoon. With the excep-
tion of Jerry there was a full muster. After the
usual formalities Napper lost no time in bringing
forward his reasons for summoning the meeting. The
troops had gone, he pointed out. The Commonwealth
had sent them down as a show of force, as a bluff,
and Terrigan, by drilling its own men, had called
the bluff. The withdrawal of the troops showed that
Canberra had no real intention of using force. It
was now necessary for Terrigan to take the offensive
and carry the war into the enemy’s territory.
Chief Man Peperell showed some alarm.
“You’re not suggesting we should invade Can-
berra?” he asked.
“Only figuratively,” replied Napper. “I mean
that we should demand to hear Canberra’s verdict.
We want to know what,is to be done about recognis-
ing our independence. We want to arrange a basis
for the allocation of our share of the national debt.
There’s the question of a fair valuation for the rail-
ways and Government property. All this must be
gone into. We must demand prompt attention.”
“Then there’s the question of customs duties,” he
went on. “Something will have to be done about
that. Terrigan may become quite an important port.
We’ve a good harbor”...
“So the trawlers reckon,” put in an irreverent
member of Cabinet.
Napper shuddered at the recollection of his all-
night vigil, and continued, “And we must expect ships
to be calling once we provide wharfage facilities.
Some arrangement will definitely have to be made
about customs. I suggest, therefore, that a strong
letter be sent to Canberra setting out the position and
demanding a prompt reply.”
Mr. Peperell asked whether other Ministers had
anything to say on the subject. Several of them had,
but they merely echoed the Minister for Education,
Even the more timid members of Cabinet felt that
as the Proclamation had passed off without any dire
consequences a few more letters wouldn’t do much
harm ; and it was decided that the drafting of the
letter should be left in the hands of Napper and
Taylor, who would present it to Chief Man Peperell
for approval.
Then Mr. Peperell asked whether there was any
further business to be considered. Hiram Pettigrew
rose to his feet.
“Waal, Mr. Chairman,” he began, “I guess I’ve
got a proposition to put to y’, an’ there ain’t no strings
tied to it neither. I’ve been with y’ in this here
revolution right from th’ start, an’ I think you’re doin’
a swell job. We’ve had our disagreements, some of
us, but I guess that’s all over. [“Hear, hear!” from
Mr. Napper.] I guess everything’s gonna be hunky-
dory from now on.
“Waal, Mr. Chairman, when Mr. Napper here
talks about buildin’ docks an’ havin’ ships come into
the Bay waal, I’ll say there’s a guy with vision.
There’s a guy that can look ahead. You’ve gotta
swell lil’ burg here, an’ I can see y’re gonna make it
grow. [Applause from all around the table.]
“Waal, I’m gonna help y’ make it grow, an’ I’ll
tell y’ how. Back in Cincinnati I made my money
outa pickles—Pettigrew’s Priceless Pickles. Ask any-
one back there an’ they’ll tell you. I’m retired now—
a corporation runs the business, and I just draw the
dividends on my common stock. Waal, that’s a
mighty slow job for a man like me. I came out t’
Australia, and I thinks to myself ‘l’ll start a factory'
in Sydney—all my own, nothing to do with th’ cor-
poration.’ See? Something to keep me outa mis-
chief.
“Waal, those racketeering cops got my goat, an’
I just skinned outa Sydney like I told y\ Now, I’ll
tell y’ what I’m gonna do. I’m gonna start a pickle
factory right here in Terrigan. Pettigrew’s Priceless
Pickles’ll be made right here on the spot. There
y’ are, that’s my proposition.”
He sat down and beamed at his colleagues.
Chief Man Peperell immediately began to express
gratification at the American’s public-spirited offer,
but he was rudely interrupted by the Minister for
Education and Propaganda.
“Mr. Chairman, Mr. Chairman! I protest against
your accepting Mr. Pettigrew’s offer without giving
Cabinet a chance to discuss it.”
Mr. Peperell endeavored to uphold the dignity
of his position.
“I do not see, Mr. Napper,” he replied, “what
there is for Cabinet to discuss. If Mr. Pettigrew is
prepared to open a factory here that’s his business,
not ours. I’m sure we should welcome”
“But a pickle factory!” exploded Napper. “We
can’t have a pickle factory in Terrigan. It wouldn’t
be fair to the town. We’ve got to think of our
prestige”
“I must ask the Minister to resume his seat,”
ordered the Chief Man.
White with indignation, Napper sat down. Mr.
Mutton rose in an endeavor to smooth things over.
“I’m sure Mr. Napper meant no reflection on
Mr. Pettigrew,” he began, “but, after all, Terrigan
is not Cincinnati.”
This sage remark evoked a snort from Hiram.
The Postmaster-General blundered on. “We are
building up a new Dominion, of which the town of
Terrigan is the capital, and Mr. Pettigrew wants to
turn it into a pickle factory. Where will our
dignity”
“That is enough, Mr. Mutton,” admonished
Peperell.
“Enough!” burst out Hiram Pettigrew. “I’ll say
it’s enough! It’s enough for this guy all right. So
Pettigrew’s Priceless Pickles ain’t good enough for
you!”
“It’s not that,” said Mr. Napper, calmer now.
“We’ve nothing against your pickles as pickles, but
we feel that this town is not the proper place for
a factory.”
“Nothing against ’em, eh? An’ y’ had nothing
against th’ money that came out of ’em, did you?
Every dahlar that financed your revolution came outa
pickles. There was nothing phony about it then.
What’s wrong with it now?”
“Order, gentlemen! Please!” begged the Chief
Man.
“It’s a matter of prestige!” shouted Napper.
“Yes, th’ prestige of my pickles,” retorted Petti-
grew. “Waal, let me tell you something. I wouldn’t


start a factory in this dump if y’ went down on y’r
knees an’ asked me to! I thought I was doin’ you
a good turn, and what do I get? Abuse, that’s all,
and insults.”
“Order, please!”
“Order, nothing! I’m through with th’ whole
outfit. And y’ won’t talk me out of it this time. No,
sir! And my money’s coming out of it, too.”
“But, Mr. Pettigrew”
“It ain’t no good talking. You’re all right,
Peperell, an’ so’s some of the others, but these two
jumped-up galoots here’s too much for me. I’m
skinning out.” With which words Hiram stamped out
of the room.
“There you are,” said Peperell testily to the two
upholders of Terrigan’s dignity. “Now you've dis-
gusted him for good.”
Napper was still unrepentant.
“I wouldn’t be surprised if he had this in mind
right from the start,” he said. “He probably put
his money into the scheme because he realised what
good publicity our secession would be.”
“It’s probably true,” said Mutton. “Look how
he opposed the new school and post office—just
because there was no money in them.”
The unexpected defection of the holder of Terri-
gan’s pursestrings had the effect of prolonging the
meeting to a considerable extent. The other Ministers
were very much against Napper and Mutton for kill-
ing the goose that had been laying the golden eggs.
It was decided that Mr. Peperell should approach the
American in an attempt to persuade him to recon-
sider his resignation. It was further agreed that the
letter to Canberra had better stay over for a few
days until the position was clarified.
When the meeting broke up Napper and Mutton
were very quiet and chastened.
“You never saw such a collapse,” Dick Taylor
told Jerry later. “Old Napper looked as if someone
had stuck a pin in him and let the air out. He’d been
getting on all their nerves, and they were glad to
have a pop at him. Old Mutton was just as bad. Of
course, he just follows Napper, but he got his, too.”
HEN Hiram left the meeting he went straight
" * back to the Royal to make preparations for his
departure from Terrigan.
“Come on, Sally,” he said. “Pack your grip.
We’re skinning out.”
“What’s the idea?” asked Sally.
“We’re going to clear. Quitting the joint.”
“You mean —not coming back?”
“That’s sure what I mean. If I ever come near
this burg again you can call me a polecat!”
“But I thought you liked it? You said”
“Like it! This hick joint? Sally, you were right,
girl. It hurts me to say it, but you were right. I’ve
been a sucker. But no more! I’m through!”
“But what”
“If my pickles ain’t good enough for ’em, neither’s
my dough.”
Bit by bit Sally was able to piece together the
story and realise the reason for her father’s sudden
change of face. Strange to say, she was not alto-
gether pleased. “Do you really intend to leave right
away?”
“Sure. Right now!”
“Don’t you think you’d better wait till Jerry
comes back?”
“Why should I? Can’t I manage my own affairs?
I’m leaving right now. If you wanta stay, y’ can.”
“All right, I’ll pack now.”
“Bully for you.”
Half an hour later, while Sally sat waiting in
the car outside the Royal, Hiram paused to say good-
bye to Bert Milligan and the bank manager.
“So long, Bert,” he said. “I must say you’ve
done me swell.”
“Good-bye, Mr. Pettigrew,” grinned the publi-
can a little dolefully. He had taken quite a liking
to the American. “You’ll find your dividends from
the Royal cornin’ in regular,” he added.
“Sure, buddy, or you’ll have t’ tell me why.”
The bank manager was very sorry to see Hiram
go, but Pettigrew had a message of cheer for him.
“Better get your own grip packed,” he told him.
“If that bank of yours doesn’t bring you up to
Sydney it doesn’t get my account.”
Bannister’s face brightened. “By Jove, if only
you could, Pettigrew”
“Boy, it’s done! And, by the way, tell that crack-
brained son of yours that Hiram Pettigrew’s business
is on ice for him whenever he wants to start lawyer-
ing in Sydney.”
Five minutes later, when Mr. Peperell and a
deputation from Cabinet called at the Royal to ask
Mr. Pettigrew to reconsider his decision, the man
who had been prepared to write the name of Terrigan
in large letters on the pickle map of the world was
already clear of the town, speeding towards Sydney.
T' ERRIGAN was not the only capital city in which
A a nation’s statesmen were wearing troubled expres-
sions that day.
In Canberra the Acting Prime Minister and
Bengers were closeted together in the former’s office.
Dr. Gage was not in a happy mood.
“We’ll have to do something about this Terrigan
business,” he was saying. “They’re making a laughing-
stock of us.”
Bengers nodded. “Yes, and Joe and Perky aren’t
helping things at all by talking big over in London
and expecting us to carry out their high-handed
threats.”
“Joe’s a fool with his ‘firmness.’ Why, if we
did what he wants us to, he’d never dare to step
ashore in Australia again.”
Bengers agreed heartily. Then Gage continued.
“That was a shrewd idea of yours to hold the train-
ing camps down there, Bengers, but it hasn’t worked.”
“No, it’s been a washout. They must have real-
ised it was only a bluff. Now the camp’s over we’ll
look pretty foolish—especially in view of Joe’s out-
pourings to the press.”
“Yes ; he seems to delight in saying things abroad
that make it awkward for us at home. And Perky
echoes him for all he’s worth. Anyhow, if the thing
isn’t settled soon the Labor crowd’ll be making an
election issue of it, and you know what that’ll mean.”
“Well, it’s got me stumped. There’s nothing in
the Constitution to stop a section of the people from
calling themselves independent. This Terrigan lot
still acknowledge the King. Whatever was the strength
of Joe’s cable about their Governor being a Jacobite,
they haven’t tried to break away from the Empire.
They’re still paying their taxes —last year’s, that is.
The question of this year’s won’t arise for six months
yet. They’re still carrying on Government business
there, and they haven’t conspired to overthrow the
Government. In fact, they don’t seem to have done
anything we can get ’em on.”
“We’ve sacked the ringleaders, haven’t we?”
“Well, more or less. They’re still carrying on,
and we haven’t sent anyone down to take over from
them. New South Wales wanted to, but I stopped
them. It’s no good asking for trouble.”
Gage considered a moment. “I’m afraid the
time has come when we’ll have to do it,” he said.
“Do what?”
“Send men down to take over. We’ll send a
postmaster, and the State Government will have to
send a policeman, a school-teacher and a station-
master.”
“Do you think that’s wise?”
“Perhaps not, but it’ll bring things to a head.
Perhaps they’ve been bluffing, too. This’ll try them
out.”
“I think it’s rather dangerous.”
“Suggest something else, then.”
“You’ve got me there. I can’t. But there must
be some other way. If only we could think of a
compromise that would be acceptable to both sides!”
“Well, I’m sick of looking for one,” returned
Gage. “If you’ve any bright ideas trot ’em out.
Otherwise What is it, Barnes, running in and
out like this? Can’t you see I’m busy?”
“There’s a Mr. Bannister to see you, sir,” replied
his secretary.
“Tell him I can’t see him. Too busy.”
“He’s from Terrigan, sir.”
“Terrigan! Bannis-
ter ! Hell, it’s that lawyer
chap. Wonder what he
wants. All right, Barnes.
Tell him to come in.
We’ll run the rule over
him, Bengers. Leave it
to me.”
CHAPTER XX.
THE following morn-
ing Jerry’s ancient
motor - cycle dis-
turbed the Sabbath
calm of Terrigan as he
returned from his mys-
terious excursion.
“Hullo, back from
Spain already! ” greeted
Bannister senior as his
son walked into his room
at the Royal.
“Yes. Pursued by
international spies and all
that, but I won through
Anything happened while
I’ve been away?”
His father told him
of the previous after-
noon’s boil-over and the
departure of the Petti-
grews.
“Sally, too?” asked
Jerry.
“Yes. They went off
together.”
“Where?”
“Sydney.”
“Dignity and pres-
tige ! The utter rot! Pet-
tigrew couldn’t be ex-
pected to stand them for
ever. It’s a wonder he
put up with their non-
sense so long. What do
they intend to do now?”
“They’re in a hell of
a mess and don’t know
which way to turn. Now
Pettigrew’s gone there’s
no money. Peperell and
most of the others are for
chucking in the towel and
calling the whole thing
off.”
“What about Napper and Mutton?”
“Oh, they’ve got some crazy scheme for imposing
a capital levy and raising funds that way, but natur-
ally no one is going to agree to that.”
“Has Sir Hamish been told yet?”
“No. I fancy they’re leaving that to you. You’ve
done all the handling of him so far.”
“I’ll see the old boy through all right. Did you
see anything of Pettigrew before he left?”
Bannister repeated Hiram’s messages.
“That’s decent of him,” said Jerry.
“Yes. I hope he can manage that transfer for
me. I’m sick and tired of Terrigan. What about you,
Jerry? Are you going to stay on here?”
“I begin to feel a voice a-calling,” replied Jerry.
“It’s saying ‘Go north, young man, to fame and
fortune.’ ”
His father looked at him shrewdly. He seemed
quite his old self again, and had lost the troubled,
prepossessed look that he had been wearing during
the past few weeks.
“You’ve got something up your sleeve,” said the
elder man. “What is it?”
“See me after the performance. No tricks given
away during the act. Anyhow, I’ll have to see the
Ministers as soon as possible now.”
“They’ve arranged a special meeting for three
o’clock.”
“Good! I’ll be there ... By the way, that packet
of mine—can I have it?”
“It’s locked up at the bank. We can get it now
if you like.”
“Thanks.”
They set out for the bank.
CABINET did not give Jerry a very hearty recep-
tion when he arrived at the meeting. Napper and
Mutton seemed to think that he was in some mysteri-
ous way responsible for the defection of Pettigrew,
and the rest of the Ministry, while not going so far
as that, felt that at least he should have been at hand
when the crisis arrived instead of roaming round
Australia on unstated errands.
It was not long before the feeling found expres-
sion in words.
“Mr. Chairman,” said the Minister for Education,
“I suggest that Mr. Bannister be asked to explain
his absence from the town during the grave events
of the past few days.”
“Have you any objections to doing so, Mr. Ban-
nister?” the Chief Man asked.
“Not at all, sir, though I really think it is a
matter that could be postponed. There is something
more serious to discuss, I understand.”
“You never saw such a collapse.”


“There’s nothing more serious,” broke in Napper.
“If you hadn’t gone away the other thing wouldn’t
have happened. You’ve been hand-in-glove with Petti-
grew all along.”
“What exactly do you mean by that?” Jerry’s
voice was low and even.
“You’ve both been in it for what you could get
out of it. Now things seem a bit shaky you’ve
advised him to take his money out.”
Mr. Peperell interposed. “Order! Order!”
“It’s true,” defended Napper. “They’re hand-
in-glove, and that girl of Pettigrew’s, too.”
“Mr. Napper,” said the Chief Man, “I must ask
you to withdraw that or leave the meeting.”
“All right, I withdraw,” growled Napper.
Mr. Mutton stepped into the breach.
“Quite apart from responsibility,” he said, “I
am sure Mr. Bannister will be able to devise a way
out of our present difficulty. His inventive brain
has been of such great use to us in the past that I
am sure it won’t fail us now. We are all anxious to
hear what he proposes to do.”
He sat down with a self-satisfied smile. Jerry
rose.
“I don’t propose to do anything,” he said. “I’ve
already done it. Mr. Mutton hopes that I’ll get Terri-
gan out of this scrape. I’ve already done that, too.”
He sat down again. It was a moment of triumph
for Jerry. He had spoken quietly and confidently,
and the whole table, even the two malcontents, looked
at him with renewed hope.
“What! Is Pettigrew coming back?”
No answer.
“Have you got someone else to back us?”
Still no reply.
“Would you make yourself a little clearer, Mr.
Bannister?” asked the Chief Man.
“Very well. It’s been apparent to me for some
time that the state of things here couldn’t go on for
ever. We’d never have been able to start the move-
ment at all without Mr. Pettigrew’s financial assist-
ance, and his support has been essential all along.
And yet certain of our members have done their level
best to antagonise him and insult him at every turn.”
He looked pointedly at Napper and Mutton, but
neither made any protest.
“I felt, therefore,” continued Jerry, “that it was
only a matter of time before Mr. Pettigrew withdrew
his support. Last time he resigned I was able to
persuade him to change his mind, but that was too
much to hope for again, and I felt sure that once he
left us it would be impossible to continue our plans
for secession.”
“Just what I’ve been saying,” put in Mr. Peperell.
“We’ll have to climb down now.”
Jerry ignored the Chief Man’s remark.
“And, furthermore,” he said, “you must realise
that, although the troops were sent down as a bluff,
they couldn’t bluff for ever. Certainly they’ve gone
now, but what’s to prevent their coming back? You
all read what the Prime Minister said in the cables.
He seemed determined. That’s what has worried
me. I began to wonder whether there was
any way in which Terrigan might come honor-
ably out of the affair. I felt there must be some way
which would please all parties. There usually is, if
one looks deep enough. You want to know where
I’ve been the last few days. I’ve been to Canberra.”
“Canberra! ”
‘‘Yes. This business of passing resolutions and
writing letters is all very well, but it doesn’t get the
results a personal interview can. I’ve seen the Acting
Prime Minister and Bengers. We arrived at what
Bengers calls a formula.”
Napper interposed indignantly. “Mr. Chairman,
what authority had Bannister to agree to a formula?
Or to conduct any negotiations?”
“That will be considered later, Mr. Napper.
Meantime, we shall hear Mr. Bannister’s story.”
“I don’t deny,” said Jerry, “that I have grossly
exceeded my authority. I can only plead that the
situation was becoming desperate and called for
desperate measures. I took them. I am confident that
when Cabinet hears me out it will approve and con-
firm my action.”
“Proceed, Mr. Bannister.”
“Well, the plan is quite simple. We withdraw
our Proclamation. The Commonwealth takes over
Terrigan from New South Wales on the grounds that
Terrigan Bay is a convenient adjunct to Jervis Bay
as a naval depot.”
Apparently the Ministers did not realise that this
was the complete formula Jerry had spoken of. They
looked at him as though expecting him to continue.
“What then?” asked the Chief Man.
“That’s all.”
“But surely”
“Don’t you see? It’s the perfect face-saver. Our
main quarrel isn’t with the Commonwealth but with
New South Wales —with Sydney. Well, if the Com-
monwealth takes us over we’re clear of Sydney and
we’ve got our Tuesday train back. That saves our
face. Canberra can claim that the secession move-
ment is crushed —that saves its face.”
“What about New South Wales?”
“They get the thin end of the stick, but they’ll
have to make the best of it. Their story is that they’ve
ceded Terrigan as a contribution to Empire defence.
It’ll sound quite a good story, too, with all this rearma-
ment talk in the air. After all, it’s only a few miles
from here to Jervis Bay, and they’ve already given
that up to the Commonwealth. What could be more
natural than to extend the boundaries of the Federal
Territory to include a second safe harbor?”
“It does sound feasible,” agreed Peperell doubt-
fully.
“Anyway, they’ve agreed to it.”
“What! Has it been put to them already?”
“Yes. Gage hit the roof and said he’d see us
damned first, but Bengers saw the force of it at once.
He persuaded Gage to send me out of the room for
a few minutes while they talked it over.”
“And when you went back?”
“They had decided to agree. The proposal will
now come as a suggestion from them, of course. I
had to concede them that.”
“What about the Sydney crowd?”
“Bengers had a long ’phone talk with the Premier.
After he got the strength of it he was tickled to death
to find there was a way out. He’s guaranteed to get
it through Parliament, and, of course, as far as the
Federal crowd are concerned it’ll be as easy as
winking.”
“It lets us down,” protested Napper.
“I don’t think so. Our present position is un-
tenable. Sooner or later we would have .to throw
in the sponge. This plan gives us a chance of doing
it gracefully, having achieved much of what we set
out to do. Free from New South Wales, we shall
enjoy an enhanced status as Federal territory and
the prestige of a part-time naval depot, and we have
already a tourist traffic which I think has come to
stay.”
“It’s a betrayal,” Napper growled.
“It seems to me,” said the Chief Man, “that Mr.
Bannister has done a splendid piece of work.”
“Hear! Hear!” came from all round the table.
“The prestige of the town” began Napper,
but he was interrupted by Greville, the member of
Cabinet who, during the whole history of the rebel-
lion, had had the least to say. A farmer in the dis-
trict, he had been a member of the shire council, and
his elevation to the Ministry had been in the nature
of a sop to the older body.
“Prestige!” he snorted. “You and your talk of
prestige! It seems to me that the best thing that can
happen for the prestige of this town is for you to
go back to teaching the school kids and for Mutton
to look after his post office. You’re all that's wrong
with Terrigan’s prestige. Am I right?” he appealed
‘to his colleagues.
Their emphatic reply was no encouragement to
Napper, and he made no attempt to continue his
protest, but remained sullenly in his seat. The dis-
cussion then turned to other aspects of the proposed
settlement. Jerry had been very thorough. The
Governments had agreed to pay all arrears of salary
and to overlook the temporary defection of theit
representatives in Terrigan. Buckenara and Mutton
brightened up considerably at this intelligence, but
Napper showed no emotion.
, Finally the Chief Man said, “There seems to
be no alternative but to accept this settlement, and
I must say Mr. Bannister is to be congratulated on it.
[Hear! Hear!] It has many advantages, and I can
see no drawbacks.”
“I can,” interposed Napper. “What about Sir
Hamish?”
Peperell gave a start. The Laird had not been
mentioned in the discussion, and no one seemed to
have given him a thought.
“We brought him out as Governor,” continued
Napper, following up his advantage, “and now we’re
just to tell him his services are no longer required,
I suppose.”
Everyone looked at Jerry,
Napper triumphantly, Peperell
appealingly.
“I can fix that,” replied Jerry.
“How?”
“I induced him to come out
here, and I can get him to leave
without any ill-feeling. But I must
be ahowed to deal with the matter myself.”
“Very well,” agreed Peperell. “We’ll leave it in
your hands.”
“Thanks. I’ll want the Ministry’s assistance in
one thing, though. Sir Hamish will leave to-morrow.
You’ll have to arrange a send-off at the airport. Tell
the town he’s been recalled on urgent private busi-
ness and will be absent some time. They needn’t
know he’s going for good yet. This needs delicate
handling.”
A S soon as he left the meeting Jerry hastened to
Inverbannock, to be warmly greeted by the Gover-
nor. “Ah, Jerry, lad! Weelcome, weelcome! Angus,
get th’ laddie a drappie. Ah’ve news for ye, Jerry.
Ah’ve news for ye. Ah’ve had a letter frae Mr.
Lovelock.”
“Mr. Lovelock? How did he know you were
out here?”
Sir Hamish avoided the question and thrust an
envelope into Jerry’s hand. “Read it.”
Jerry did so, then, assuming a worried air, he
asked the Laird: “So you wrote and told him about
Terrigan?”
“Aye.”
“But, Sir Hamish, have you forgotten that we
agreed not to breathe a word of it to anyone?”
“Na, Jerry. Ah’ve no’ forgotten, but Ah thocht
’twould be a’ richt t’ tell Mr. Lovelock. Mr. Love-
lock’s oor leader.”
“I know, but that makes no difference. The
instructions I gave you from King Rupert were to
tell no one.”
“Th’ King wouldna mind Mr. Lovelock know-
ing. Why, Mr. Lovelock wants to come oot and visit
us hissel’.”
Jerry shook his head sadly.
“I see it all now,” he said. “I couldn’t under-
stand before.”
“See what? What couldna ye unnerstan’?”
“King Rupert’s dispatch.” He pulled out the
package which he had brought back from Sydney the
week before and began to open it.
“King Rupert’s dispatch? What d’ye mean,
laddie?”
“This,” replied Jerry sadly. “He’s recalling you
to Scotland. Says you are to await a more propitious
time. Hold yourself in readiness, and so on.”
Sir Hamish read in dismay. “Aye, it’s his sig-
nature,” he said in broken tones.
Jerry felt a little despicable at the ruse he was
playing on the old Scot. The letter from Lovelock
had played right into his hands and served to give
added force to the royal letter he had had manufac-
tured in Sydney. The signature had been simple
enough, and tallied accurately with the one on the
original document appointing Sir Hamish Governor.
This was not surprising, as Jerry had signed both
himself.
“Perhaps it isn’t as bad as you think,” he con-
soled the Governor. “After all, it merely says ‘await
a more propitious time.’ His Majesty may not be
displeased with you at all.”
“It’s na use, laddie. Ah ken it. Ah’ve betrayed
ma trust.” The old Jacobite was very near to tears.
“There’s another package,” said Jerry suddenly.
“It was enclosed with the other dispatches, but it’s
addressed to you personally.”
He handed it over, and Sir Hamish unwrapped
it mechanically. The paper contained a small card-
board box. The Laird opened it, and a moment later
gave a whoop of joy, so sudden and so shrill that
Angus, who after dispensing drinks had retired from
the room, came rushing in at the double to find out
the cause.


“It’s a medal! ” cried Sir Hamish. “It’s a medal! ”
“Is it for th’ pipes competition?” asked Angus
hopefully.
“No. ’Tis for me!” He pulled out a small strip
of parchment and read:
To our Worthy and Well-beloved Servant,
Hamish McTaggart, Governor of our Province
of Terrigan, we do present this Medal of the
Most Ancient and Honorable Order of the
Royal Oak.
The Governor could read no further. The tears
which had been welling up before now streamed down
his cheeks, but they were tears of joy.
“Ah’m no’ disgraced!” he said gleefully. “Ah’m
no’ disgraced! It’s as ye said, Jerry. Th’ time’s no’
propeetious. Royal Oak! Losh, ’tis a g-grand honor.
Angus, bring more whusky. We maun drink t’ this.”
It was a simple matter now for Jerry to arrange
with the Laird for his departure.
“We must tell the people you’ve been called away
on business,” he explained. “We can’t be too careful.
His Majesty’s Intelligence Department has appar-
ently come to the conclusion that it is unwise for
you to remain here for the present. Back in Scotland
you will have to wait until the call comes again. Let’s
hope that next time things turn out more successfully
for the Cause.”
“Aye, laddie.”
After toasting King Rupert, the Cause and the
Order of the Royal Oak, Jerry got down to business
again.
“Will you be able to leave to-morrow?” he asked.
“Aye. Ah suppose you’ll be wanting us tae
catch th’ sheep frae Sydney?”
I thought it would be better if you went by air.
It’s quicker and more convenient, you know.”
Sir Hamish shuddered. “Ah’ll no’ gang by air,”
he said stubbornly.
“But, Sir Hamish, it’s quite safe. You flew out
here without any mishaps.”
“Ah’ll no’ tempt Providence again. Ah’ll gang
by sheep. ’Twill take longer, but ’twill be better for
ma peace o’ mind.”
Jerry had reckoned on getting a ’plane to pick
up the old Jacobite at the Terrigan airport the follow-
ing day in time to link up with the London airliner.
To go by sea would mean delaying his departure a
few days, and in the circumstances the sooner Sir
Hamish left Australia the better. He tried various
arguments, including loyalty to the Cause, but the
Laird was adamant, arguing very logically that since
all he had to do was return to Scotland and await
further orders it could not matter whether he took
one week or six to make the journey.
While the discussion was in progress Angus was
standing by silently. All at once he began mumbling
to himself. Jerry glanced at him. He appeared to
be making calculations on his fingers. Then, wildly
excited, he cried: “Sir Hamish, Sir Hamish, canna
we gang by th’ airyplane?”
“Na, we canna.”
“Och, Sir Hamish! Th’ airyplane’d get us home
in time for th’ Forfar Competeetions.”
The almost-ex-Governor showed no sign of
relenting. Jerry watched anxiously.
“Ah missed them at Perth,” wailed Angus, “an’
Ah missed them at Dundee. Canna we gang to
Forfar for th’ competeetions?”
The Laird shook his head. “We’ll gang by sheep.”
Angus was in despair. “Och,” he said, “then
we’ll be too late, an’ Donal’ Macgregor’ll win th’
championsheep. Him ’ut said Prince Charlie ran
awa’ at Drumossie.”
“Th’ spindle-shanked loon,” spluttered Sir
Hamish. “Ah’ll no’ let him be champion. Puir
Charlie! We’ll catch th’ ’plane. You’ll win th’
competeetion a’ richt, Angus lad.”
“Thank ye, Sir Hamish, sir.”
\X7 HEN the car containing Jerry and the two Scots-
v * men arrived at the airport next morning it seemed
that all Terrigan was there. Cabinet had agreed that
the time was not ripe to tell the citizens of the im-
pending settlement, so the news that the Governor
had been called to Scotland on urgent family business
was circulated. The spontaneous rally to wish him
bon voyage was a splendid tribute to the Laird’s
popularity.
“Ye’ve been a leal frien’ tae me,” he told Jerry
as they neared the field. “Ye’ll pay me a visit if
ye’re ever in Scotland again, won’t ye?”
“Of course,” said Jerry.
“Ah’m sorry tae be leaving th’ place. Ah’ve had
a fine time here.”
“You’ve done splendid work, Sir Hamish,”
replied Jerry, “and Terrigan will be sorry to lose
you.”
“Weel, laddie, th’ Cause comes first.”
Jerry felt a little ashamed of himself, but he quiet-
ened his conscience with the thought that at any
rate the old man had had his crowded hour of glory
and was returning to Scotland with his illusions un-
broken, and would at least have memories to cherish
of his work for the Cause.
“Well, here we are,” he said. “They’ll be expect-
ing you to say a few words.”
“Aye, Ah’ll be ready. An’, lad, ye maun gie ma
respects to Miss Pettigrew when ye see her. Ye’ll be
seeing her again, Ah’m thinkin’?”
“Sure.”
“A fine lassie. If I waur a young man again, ma
wor-rd”
“We’re here,” broke in Jerry.
The car passed through a lane of cheering people.
Despite the short notice they had had of the depar-
ture the Scouts and Guides were present and, with
the Terrigan volunteers, formed a guard of honor,
behind which the townspeople thronged enthusiasti-
cally. Dansie and his two young men pushed about
importantly among the crowd.
The Ministry, including Napper and Mutton,
stood on a small platform alongside the plane. The
two rebels now realised that the scheme offered the
or, ly wa Y °ut ar { impossible situation, and they had
decided to fall in line with the rest of Cabinet.
Sir Hamish was out of the car, he was shaking
bands wdb tbe Mhn sters ; Chief Man Pepeiell was
clearin S throat preparatory to speaking.
. 4 P° n t forget hes supposed to be coming back
agal ” ” prompted Jerry.
~ Peperel began the speech of farewell. Wi st
Terngan regretted that d was los ; ng > for ! h " tlme at
any rate ’ J °7 and P leasure Jt denved from the
presence of its dearly-loved and respected Governor
f hear , hear!) it realised that there were certain calls
an d summonses that could not be disregarded. Such
a ca] i had come to Sir Hamish and they must not
a cau naa ... . . nd 1 . SI ’ / “V
Harn'is^McTaggart'' l 'h'y^ndLredtimse^to’ them
“ M£>ped tot "nee from Terrigan
would be very short indeed. Should, however any
unforeseen circumstances prevent Su Hamish from
returning to them, he could assure the Governor on
behalf of all the citizens of Terrigan that he would
remain for ever enshrined in their hearts.
The Laird, in his reply, was not quite so caieful
as the Chief Man - - ln fact ’ he ade hl + s farewells so
direct and fervent that the crowd forgot he was only
t 0 be absent tem P oraril y < as the J tbou B ht )> and elt
that the y were ,osmg for eVer a dearl V- loved fnend -
Angus had placed their
luggage aboard and was
standing by with his pipes
“at the ready.” As Sir
Hamish climbed aboard
the ’plane the crowd
let itself go. Never had
such cheering been heard
in Terrigan— not even in
the first wild days of the
rebellion. The Laird
bowed and waved. A
band struck up “Will Ye
No’ Come Back Again?”
and Angus, not to be out-
done, poured forth some
wild barbaric lament that
brought tears to the eyes
or fingers to the ears
according to temperament.
The engine was now
running, and Angus was
aboard, still piping as
though the Forfar Com-
petitions had already be-
gun.
“She’s moving,” said
Peperell, and the official
party waved hands and
hats to Sir Hamish as the
’plane taxied across the
field. The crowd pressed
forward pursuing it, still
cheering frantically.
Over went the plat-
form, and Sir
Hamish was afforded
a last glimpse of his
erstwhile advisers
disappearing with
undignified sudden-
ness in the sea of
his admirers.
By the time
Cabinet had sorted
itself out again the
’plane was a fast-
vanishing speck in
the blue, and the
first and last Gover-
nor of the Free and
United Dominion of
Terrigan had passed
for ever from the
confines of his
former domain.
CHAPTER XXL
TWO months after the
departure of Sir
Hamish from Terri-
gan a taxi sped away
from Sydney Central Rail-
way Station. That fact, in
itself, was not remarkable,
but the thing that singled
out this particular taxi
from the hundreds of
others which speed away
from Sydney Central
Station every day was that
it contained the Bannis-
ters, father and son.
“We’ll drop your things at the pub, then I’ll take
you round to my office,” said Jerry,
“That’ll do me. By Jove! Fancy being out of
Terrigan at last. I can hardly believe it. That George-
street branch’ll suit me down to the ground.”
Jerry had never known his father so enthusiastic.
“I’m glad you got the move, dad.”
“I’ve got Pettigrew to thank for it, of course.
He promised me he’d bring it off, and he has. He
must’ve threatened to take his account away.”
“He’s been a stout fella to me, too. We’ve got
lots f 0 thank him for.”
They pulled up at the Metropole just long
enough to check in the bank-manager’s luggage, then
Jerry w hisked the older man off to his office in a
tall new building near by. Jerry opened the door of
his room.
“My staff is away » he explained. “I gave her
the afternoon off.”
“Doing it on rather an elaborate scale, aren’t
akd g ann ; ster senior looking around in
Bann,St£r Sem ° r ’ lo ° king ar ° Und in
« 0 h it ’s not as expensive as it looks” replied
T «J , as expensive as it looks, replied
Jerry. Youve got to make some sort of showing,
you . know ' Take a ,f eat : ,el | me . ail about
£mgan. jjupposejm m the gun for cleartng out
“Oh. You’re all right. Napper talked a lot
rQt adout your deserting a sinking ship, but the
ot h ers knew vou’d saved the situation for the town.
Qf course> peperell was going to take all the credit
£ or settlement, but young Taylor and some of
others got round old Bowden to print the truth
( Continued on page 50 )
onnnuea on page ju.j
The first and last Go-
vernor of the Free and
United Dominion of
Terrigan had passed
for ever from the
confines of his former
domain.


i ;
t :
li
Produced
in England A
Wemco Fabric.
TRICOLINE means the ultra in comfort and smartness . . .
and its silky touch adds emphasis to your appreciation.
Men look on TRICOLINE SHIRTS with friendly eyes, and
admire them instinctively.
Your Mercer will tell you that shirts of TRICOLINE are
Becken shrunk . . . that they wear for years . . . and retain
the smartness of their stripes right to the last.
SHIRTS FOR MEN
TRICOLINE
RECD.
Brisbane: W. C. Williams, Ryan House, Charlotte St. Perth: Marshall Flower, 757 a Hay St.
Malb.: K. Mather, Pawson House, Flinders La. Sydney: Keogh & Co., Grace Bid., York st.
ESTABLISHED 1834
THE.
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED
WITH WHICH IS AMALGAMATED
THE BANK OF VICTORIA LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND .. 4,300,000 0 0
(Used wholly in the business.)
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
Directors:
James Ashton (Chairman) ; Edward R. Knox; Owen E. Friend;
Sir Wm. Vicars, C.8.E.; Orwell Phillips.
General Manager: C. Darvall.
HEAD OFFICE: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout New South Wales,
Victoria, Queensland, South Australia, and Canberra, F.C.T.
Agents throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
Pinchgut.
In the fierce old days, without which our litera-
ture would be restricted to the other two books, the
above name was rudely attached to the place by its
leading residents.
Indeed, a local legend survives that a paunchy
alderman of the City of London, transported hence
over a spot of bloater-poaching, and, of course,
released on ticket of leave when a dashing ensign
fell in love with his beautiful daughter, was able, after
only about a fortnight’s incarceration, to at once take
the place he still holds in our history as the finest
pull-through the great Rum Corps had ever known.
Be that as it may, they don’t do it to you over
there now. Far from it. In fact, the principal occu-
pation of 50 per cent, of the adult population these
days is cooking cakes. Corkers.
She bakes them in an oven in a kitchen which has
sandstone walls any number of feet thick, protectively
surrounded by even more solid sandstone buttresses,
bastions, gun-possies and 'the like against any landing
parties of small boys irresistibly drawn from the main-
land by the whiff.
From here, by the way, an uninterrupted view
can be had on all sides of Sydney Harbor, and of such
other famous sights as the buoy to which the Aus-
tralian Navy is moored when the Melbourne Cup is
not in use.
When the kitchen is entirely full of cakes the other
50 per cent, of the adult population sets out for the
One O’clock.
extreme southern point of his 97yds. long by 67yds.
wide dominions and waits for the smell of the cakes
to waft over to Observatory Hill on the mainland,
this waft being so delicious that even the mechanical
instruments housed on that distant site begin to water
at the mouth, setting up a gastronomical reflex action
so potent that it causes a black ball to climb a pole
on top of the building, wait there for five minutes in
exalted ecstasy and then suddenly drop from the sheer
exhaustion of unfulfilled longing.
At any rate, from whatever cause, the ball does
go through these daily acrobatics, whereupon Mr.
Sumner pulls a length of dog-chain that fires the One
O’clock Gun, and strong men in Plasto’s, the Paragon,
the North British and the First and Last take out
their watches, shake their heads and sink their beer
in mute acknowledgment of how time marches on.
Himself old 2nd Batt., Mr. Sumner is one to
whom every A.I.F. beetle-crusher’s one-time dream
of Paradise has been realised. His residence, stretch-
ing along most of the length of this his realm, is
a terrace of weighty sandstone pillboxes; a head-
quarters that might have satisfied even General Joffre.
Each pillbox has a chimney, at the interior foot
of which is a castiron fireplace decorated with her
late Majesty Queen Victoria’s monogram and coat-
of-arms. Here, in the days when the Tank Stream
had not yet become a Sydney version of the River
Alph, meandering subter-
raneanly beneath the pub
at the corner of Pitt and
Bridge streets, a garrison
of 26 held out for 17
years and their rum issue,
unconquered to the last.
It has to be admitted
that they were never attacked, but it shows how thus
early in our history we were taking no chances.
Pinchgut, in fact, is an epitome of the fair his-
tory of Australian defence.
When first sighted by our white forebears it was
a rock about as high as its present flagmast. The
abos., with an exaggeration excusable in a people
so imbued with civic pride, called this rock Mattawae,
meaning Island of Rocks. Our white forebears
calling it, with more accuracy and at least equal
originality, Rock Island —first used it as an anchor
for the ringbolts to which were attached our forerun-
ning bugbears and as the
foundations of a gallows
to whose practical and
aesthetic merits Mr. J. H.
M. Abbott has frequently
testified.
It was, of course, our
forerunning bugbears who
christened it Pinchgut.
And now occurred
an incident which launched
the whole history of Aus-
tralian defence on its
singular career.
Three Yankee frigates
suddenly appeared in the
Harbor and anchored off
Dawes Point. Such an out-
Transported hence.
rageous plagiarism on the modern fashion for start-
ing wars without officially declaring the season open
naturally shocked and startled the inhabitants of Aus-
tralia, who gathered on a vacant allotment to stare
pop-eyed at the intruders. It was decided to provide
adequate fortifications for this country forthwith.
The site chosen was Pinchgut, henceforth to be
known as Fort Denison. With natural, if feverish,
haste, this work was commenced a year later.
Two years later —for the benefit of those who
like dates, this brings us to 1841 —the work of chop-
ping the rock down to a bit above Harbor-level was
delayed by that fine old cause lack of funds. And
so, for about 14 years, Pinchgut remained ; not yet
a fort, but no longer a passable prototype of Taronga’s
mountain-goat house.
Then another war-scare —Crimea, the charge of
the Light Brigade, Florence Nightingale and what
would you.
Renewed feverish defence activity in this far-
flung outpost of the British Empire ; until, in 1858
—2O years after those Yankee frigates came nosing
up Our ’Arbor —we have our fort completed ; manned
by our 26 staunch defenders, glorious relics of whose
sojourn here —the very vessels in which their rum
issue was drawn by the
quartermaster and meas-
ured out —hang to this
day in a spick-and-span
array in the gun-room.
This gun-room is part
of the way up that biocky
round tower which from
the mainland looks as if
it might at any minute
cant the little boatlike
island up and sink it bow-
first. It is a round room under a domed ceiling that
is the architectural brother of St. Paul’s, and, we
gather, of about only five others in the world ; so to
this extent, at least, our forebugs were exclusive
enough. And magnificent stonemasons to boot.
Here, in this circular room, the three great guns
are set fanwise, made safe from souvenir-hunters by
being put into position first and then afterwards en-
closed by the walls and dome. Against the walls
the gun-mops ; everything reeking
with the atmosphere of decks
cleared for action, the Revenge
going in to do its bit of singeing,
Nelson, the Spanish Main, Captain
Kidd and other great patches of
color.
Deep down below in the base-
ment are the dungeons the
powder-magazines really, with the
rings made by the powder-barrels
cut deep in the floors. A perfect
place for any Digger to retire into
if he felt like remembering the war
with complete security.
Oscar Asche
squeezing.
Up from here to the gun-
room and on again up to the top of the round tower
leads a spiral stairway 2ft. 4in. wide which has borne
a miracle —to wit, Oscar Asche once somehow squeez-
ing his way to the top: perhaps reducing for the part
of Falstaff.
Below there, stretching narrowly along the
easterly aspect of the realm, is what used to be the
moat. In these piping times of peace the juvenile
population use it as a swimming-pool, from which
we may read a marine version of the fable of swords
being beaten into ploughshares.
And all those sails loosening out everywhere and
beginning to skim hither and yon about the Harbor,
till its surface is a fluttering, skimming, dipping and
curveting white flock of them, in these we see the
famous eighteen-footers out for their Saturday after-
noon, and if our binoculars were able to bring their
sound-effects as close we should probably be able to
enjoy their superb profanity as well.
Back now down the spiral stairway to have a
look into the room where an ingenious engine meas-
ures the tides and makes a note of the big ships that
pass coming up the Harbor. Here, too, among other
incidental souvenirs, a wife-beater from the Solomon
Islands, also ingenious ; a pretty bit of work, garnished
with shark’s teeth.
And this just arriving is the boat come to take
us off. Out of it scramble another party of Saturday-
afternoon visitors, making a great to-do as they come
ashore of sniffing the ozone. Yes, we feel impelled
to tell them, splendid! We have never tasted better,
and the kitchen’s still at least three-quarters full of
them.
Yankee intruders in Our ’Arbor.
Beauty —our host’s black-brindle lady bulldog —
comes down to the oyster-encrusted front steps to see
us off. And so that is the face which is the pride
of Britons everywhere, which has launched ten mil-
lion bottles of stout and fired the dauntless doers of
Albion!
Even so ; and yet, Beauty, if we may say so with-
out offence, we fancy we have seen your little screwed-
up black mug before. On an Australian at that.
Allasame missus belonga Jacky Featherlegs.


df
THE SHELL COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
(Incorporated in Great Britain)
SI2II


*
ROYAL
PURPLE
u 1 „ $
&
i . mm
r - * "T*
ISH *
v'v ,
5v
J i * *sSrs ■ 1
1
,;v:'^
mm • •;.!
! * ..
"■-? ~ 1 .-^
<§-1
mm Jg i
mm
mßm
«W 5?
lIP
M
■
5
’" '-"\ * ’
nni
i - m
no
m
■
K
■■-■ .
>***»
? < : * -‘;
■
®a
M
ill
'111:';"" : ir.:. Mi
n i
iW
IJO:
r:-]
H
n
111
iin
■ «
n
Slilll
; '-I - .V:
II
m
gr****l
■ ' :
■
m ;■
ippi
MOM
W 1
m.
: I
P*
■ ram
i
mmm
■
&5s
HHHI*
H
,*yt
•<•< <» - ■ *
* *1 »*»»-*-*~v*
» ** •’’l PL \3» « :
1
; 11
i
***• •.
>A"'
v -f-.sr ;
Hi
n
/
■ . -i# /
■
Iv- - ♦.
■
I
Labelling Department—Bottling from One of the Vast Storage Cellars.


The Bulletin
THE ISOLATIONISTS.
“You pin chum OUR policy.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : National Mutual Buildings, 91
King William Street, Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Saywell Buildings, 115 Lambton
Quay, Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London,
E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 15s. 6d.;
3 months, Bs.
Posted Free to any address Overseas {Foreign):
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 25.; 3
months, 11s.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji, New
Hebrides and other places within the British
Empire, 2d. per copy. United Kingdom via France
or America, 2d. per copy. To all other places, 4d.
THE VOICES OF LABOR.
Six or seven months ago most Australians who take
an interest in politics were prepared for or resigned
to the probability of a Labor victory at the Com-
monwealth elections.
The Lyons Government, in its sixth year of office,
had gone from blunder to blunder and from failure
to failure. The costly fiasco of “sanctions” had been
followed by the still more costly fiasco of the trade
wrangle with Japan ; the loss of the James case by
the loss of the marketing referendum ; the exclusion
of - Mrs. Freer —on grounds never disclosed —by the
ungracious admission of the lady ; the appointment
of a Country-party member to the chief N.T. post
by the defeat of the Ministerial candidates in his
electorate of Gwydir. The Trade Treaties man had
left the Ministry after the patched-up peace with the
Japanese, and a spot of energy, however misdirected,
had left with him. There remained, it seemed, only
a tired old team of whom the country was itself tired.
The report of the Banking Commission, obvi-
ously appointed in the hope of pacifying cranks and
narks, did not improve the outlook for the Adminis-
tration. It made its appearance at an awkward time,
and contained some sloppy sentences on which
Labor orators gleefully pounced, claiming that they
supported its contention that banking policy should be
controlled by Government. Mr. Lyons and Dr. Page
found themselves obliged to promise some half-hearted
“reforms,” among them a mortgage-branch bank and
loans for impecunious civil servants. And though
the public still vividly remembers what happened to
the N. S. Wales Government Savings Bank when Mr.
Lang was in virtual control, U.A.P. and U.C.P. sup-
porters had small reason to look forward with con-
fidence to an election fought on the banking issue
and on their Government’s performances during the
past three years.
The international situation came to the rescue.
It made defence the transcendent issue and placed the
Labor party on the defensive. It occupied men’s
thoughts so much that it became useless to talk about
the Mrs. Freer case, the James case, the marketing
referendum or the Abbott appointment. People didn’t
even want to hear about the folly of restricting
imports of Japanese rayon and cotton goods at the
price of Japanese withdrawal from the wool market;
they wanted instead a definition of the Labor atti-
tude to the proposed boycott of Japanese goods “to
help China.”
It has become painfully evident that on this
subject and that of defence and that of the duty of
Australia in a British Empire emergency there is no
definite Labor attitude. Labor has gone back to its
war-time and depression-time habit of speaking with
many voices.
The Sydney and Newcastle Trades and Labor
Councils demand a boycott of Japanese goods and
services. Mr. Curtin and Mr. Lang are against it.
It has nevertheless been begun by some of Mr.
Curtin’s “followers” in his own electorate of Fre-
mantle.
The All-Australia Trade-union Congress and
three associated Trades and Labor Councils declare
that collective security—and “sanctions,” when
decided upon by Mr. Litvinov’s League—is pajt of
their policy. Mr. Curtin pleads that it is not the
policy of himself or his party —isolation is. Isolation
with continued membership of the League of
Nations! The same trade-unions nourish the inter-
ventionists and the isolationists. Behind Mr. Curtin
at the moment are isolationists who used to
be interventionists. If he became Prime Minister a
struggle for the mastery would begin at once —it
always does in these cases, although the ground is
never the same —-and as the mob shouting with the
louder voice the interventionists would probably
prevail.
While these Labor factions are busy, another
family quarrel is raging round Mr. Lang and the
newspaper over which he has a thumping mortgage.
At the last election to the newspaper board, Mr.
Lang, Mr. Beasley and two supporters were returned
as directors, four Trades and Labor Council men
being declared to have been defeated. After
a Supreme Court case which lasted many months,
Justice Long-Innes has ruled that thousands of
votes were wrongly rejected, and that the Trades
and Labor Council men, not Mr. Lang, Mr.
Beasley and their friends, were elected. The
Lang group is appealing against the judgment. Mean-
while, a Labor broadcaster from station 2KY has
genially charged the “Labor Daily” with “an ill-
concealed support of Fascism abroad in the tense
drama of democracy’s struggle for survival.”
First it was Abyssinia; then Spain. Now comes
China. Again the “Labor Daily” sides with the war-
lords and becomes their active ally in Australia.
In this trying situation Mr. Curtin is endeavoring
manfully to follow the advice of Marcus Aurelius:
“Live as on a mountain.” In his eyrie above the
battles his thoughts go back to June, 1918, when the
Perth Labor Conference decided to put recruiting to
the vote, the ballot “to close not later than November
1-” Still positive that time is of no value in war, he
blithely proposes that the question of Australian
participation in a struggle in which Britain was
attacked and Maoriland perhaps invaded or threat-
ened with invasion should be put to the vote.
Australia has had one experience of a war-time
referendum that divided the nation into two camps ;
but Mr. Curtin has learned nothing from it. Neither
has he learned anything from the magnificent exhibi-
tion of sea-power which, for upwards of four years,
kept all the countries of the British Commonwealth
free from invasion and starvation, held the sea routes
for their forces and those of their allies, and main-
tained those forces in the field wherever there were
hostile armies to fight; and which finally broke the
enemy with a blockade. Mr. Curtin has little use for
sea-power and less for man-power. He is certain that
Australia could defend its shores against an invader
—presumably its sea-borne trade doesn’t matter —by
means of aeroplanes. So is that other military expert
Mr. Lang.
Defence should be lifted above party, and it is
deplorable that an election should be fought on this
issue, and this issue alone. Nor is there much to
admire in the performances which the Government
parades, or even in the programme to which the
darker situation has driven it. But it does stand for
the strengthening of the three arms of the service
and for co-operation with other members of the
British Commonwealth; and even at the. risk of
another experiment in “sanctions” —though it is diffi-
cult to imagine the realist Chamberlain Government
becoming involved in another—that co-operation is,
and always will be, essential. What are Mr. Curtin’s
proposals? Aeroplanes and isolation, and, if war
comes, another referendum, which would separate the
nation again into two camps. And even these dismal
alternatives he cannot guarantee. All post-1917 party
history suggests that isolation would be dropped as a
policy, and Mr. Curtin with it, for intervention on
the Moscow side the moment the louder mob of
Labor bosses became the larger mob.
Purposes of Porpoises.
Once when a purpose was to be served by misinform-
ing and misleading people, a red-herring was con-
sidered an adequate fish. To match these expansive
times we are now given porpoises.
They are hardier, and it needs something tough
to stand up to the racket, with deliberately invented
propaganda shaped to look like authentic news, exag-
geration strained to the utmost to keep people’s minds
inflamed, and the publishing of corrections of the
more outrageous lies liable to be of daily occurrence.
That porpoise which figured as a torpedo (“of
Italian manufacture”) attacking H.M.S. Basilisk was
only one of the school of fabulous fish which have
been sporting in cable columns for years. This con-
ception of newspapers as primarily instruments for
agitating, disturbing and conditioning the public mind
dates from the “corpse factory” and “crucified-
soldier” days of the war. It is simply being carried
on with improvements in rashness and absurdity, and
there are evidently people who still swallow it all
as gospel.
Examples of these are the Westralian wharfies
who last week declined to work a Japanese ship, small
organisations in N. S. Wales which have agreed to deny
themselves Japanese toys for Christmas and the moth-
eaten oracles of the press, the pulpit and the micro-
phone who, on the strength of the violent scare-
mongering, are continuously hard at it trying to stam-
pede people—other people—into “action,” the current
euphemism for war.
All such represent the sort of people whose men-
tal processes were seen at their best during the fan-
tastic war scares of 1915 and later, when buoys
became German mines, rabbit-trappers spies, fishing-
boats raiders and lights in homestead windows Morse-
code stations. There is nothing criminal about such
people; they are most of them innocents misled. Even
the bulk of those who are the instruments in agitating
them have nothing worse about them than the cock-
sureness which is commonly the hall-mark of fools.
They are none the less dangerous because such
excuses can be advanced for them. It is pathetically
blind and incredibly stupid folly, the lot of it; but
it is no time to suffer fools when what they are about
is nothing else but stampeding as many as they can
influence on the road back to the shambles.
That is where the signpost points when any one
of these people or papers starts talking “action.” There
is a rashness about them which gives no consideration
to national policy, to the danger of continuously
irritating, provoking, baiting other nations into
enmity. No consideration, either, for what the
“action” their fools’ chorus demands would mean to
Australia and Australians —other Australians, that is ;
almost without exception, whether in newspaper
columns, from pulpits or Red union headquarters, or
through microphones, these people who preach
“action” are over the age-limit for active service.
What their folly would sacrifice is not their own
precious, if worn-out, bodies, but another generation
of youth.
People who listen .to them should make no mistake
about it: what they mean when they say “action” is war.
They asked for it against Italy, and already the
reasons why look incredibly fantastic. They have
asked for it —and are working up to ask for it again
—on behalf of the Valencia Government. They are
asking for it now —more insistently and more danger-
ously than ever —on behalf of China.
In the interests of peace it would be the best
thing that could happen if the lot of them were
gagged. Every one of them is a directly contributing
cause of the widespread prevalence of war neurosis.
This being purely a state of mind, it has only to be
fed sufficiently and the warmongers must get what
they are after. Under the constant feeding of this
ass-fodder people are getting more and more un-
settled, more and more jittery, more and more con-
vinced that there is some glorious purpose to be served
by getting mixed up in another war.
That this should be true, with the fruitlessness
of the last slaughter so close- —and closer still the
reaction against war which followed—is almost un-
believable. Yet it is true.
It is time we came to our senses.
The best beginning that could be made would be
for everybody to make a business of pinning down for
themselves the palpable lies with which they are being
fed. These lies should be related to the cocksure
headings under which they are given out, and to the
corrections of them —usually obscurely published—
which occur from day to day. The range would
spread from such piffling matters as last week’s story
of the Duke of Windsor being appointed “world film
censor” —contradicted, of course, next day—on
through torpedo attacks which turn out to be por-
poises to “the mass-murder of Chinese fishermen by
Japanese submarines” and “the deliberate Japanese
attempt to demoralise the Chinese by means of
drugs.”
Only when people have accustomed themselves
to nailing these lies will the public mind begin to
settle down again. The whole fantastic structure of
sensationalism and terrorising is built on them. They
are the material out of which is being built up again
the notion of war as an inevitable and glorious possi-
bility. Until people generally have adopted a habit
of disbelief towards the sensation- and war-scare-
mongers the war neurosis, with its dangers, will last.
Nobody who adopts this plan need fear any
dearth of material to work on. Encouraged as they
have been by results so far, all those who are work-
ing, consciously or unconsciously, towards the hideous
end their road must lead to can be depended on abso-
lutely for even bigger, fiercer and stranger porpoises
than they have traded in to date. They have lied so
consistently for “policy”—for the ends that are being
served by stampeding people towards war —that even
if circumstances completely altered to-morrow they
would go on lying out of habit.
Selling the Pass for Nothing,
Laborites in inland Victoria must be bitterly won-
dering whether the Melbourne Trades Hall’s truckling
to the Dunstan C.P. group has any limit.
One form this strange subservience took at the
Assembly elections was to save old Labor electorates
like Warrenheip and Warrnambool for former Labor
Ministers who have become C.P. Ministers, by threat-
ening to expel Laborites coming out against those
worthies who were themselves expelled.
Then Labor supporters in the country were
directed to give their preferences to C.P. candidates.
The Country party issued no corresponding instruc-
tion. As a result C.P. preferences re-elected Mr. White
(U.A.P.) in Bulla-Dalhousie, while in Allandale
U.A.P. preferences nearly gave the C.P. a seat at
Labor’s expense; Mr. Denigan’s Labor majority
slumped from 320 to 91.
In other electorates the general effect of Trades
Hall policy was to keep C.P. members in with majori-
ties swollen by Labor votes, in the process enabling their
party to remain on the Treasury benches—though the
weakest of the three parties, and greatly overrepre-
sented at that —and while there thwart the introduc-
tion of the democratic provision without which State
Labor can never carry Victoria, one vote one value.
This idiotic strategy has been extended to the
Commonwealth elections, again without any conces-
sion whatever from the Victorian C.P., whose motto is
“Take everything and give nothing.” In Gippsland and
Indi Labor has to tackle C.P. members; in Wannon.
a U.A.P. member and a C.P. candidate ; in Bendigo,
U.A.P. and C.P. candidates. And the Trades Hall is
leaving Wimmera to be fought out by Mr. McClel-
land, M.H.R., a Federal Cocky, and Mr. Wilson, a
State Cocky, though the considerable body of Labor-
ites in the electorate are to be directed to support
Wilson. Nor is it running a man in Flinders, though
Flinders was Labor in 1929-31 ; here the command
is that Laborites must give No. 1 to the C.P. nominee,
a rather flabby, facing-both-ways member of the
central council named Skeat.
This was too much for the Laborites of Emerald,
which is part of Flinders, and their bitterness over-
flowed at an A.L.P. branch meeting. It was pointed
out that two Labor candidates had offered to nomi-
nate for Flinders, and that in the electorate, as altered,
there are parts of Dandenong and Oakleigh, the
only two Assembly divisions gained by Labor ; but
it was no use.
The A.L.P. central executive was more concerned
about studying the interest of the Country party candi-
date than the interests of Labor.
This sorry central executive has full pre-selec-
tion powers for country districts as well as Melbourne,
where it hangs out. The sooner these powers are
taken from it and handed back to the people the
better it will be for Labor and Victoria.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Boycotters
Wharf-laborers in Mr. Curtin’s electorate refused to
coal the mother-ship of a Japanese whaling fleet on
its way to the Antarctic. They did this in defiance
of their member’s declaration, made the previous day,
that he and his party were against a boycott, and in
contempt of their State Labor Government, which is
spending heaps of borrowed money at Yampi to
the end that iron ore may be shipped to Japan.
The boycotters have the excuse, if any excuse
there can be, that they were egged on by Red trade-
union leaders and misled by newspapers, particularly
with regard to the attitude of President Roosevelt.
Being in a domestic jamb, President Roosevelt
looked abroad for an escape, as countless rulers in
a like fix have done in all ages. His Congress had
revolted against much of his New Deal legislation
and his attempt to pack the Supreme Court Bench,
and in a dreadful moment it came out that his latest
appointee to the Bench had been a member of the
anti-Catholic, anti-Semitic and anti-negro Ku-Klux-
Klan. To effect a diversion, he made a speech on
the foreign situation, in which the feelings of good
people, aroused by the horrors of the wars raging in
southern Europe and eastern Asia, and their anxiety
for settlements, were expressed in the pithy phrases
of which Mr. Roosevelt is a master. He closed on
the note that there must be “positive endeavors to
preserve peace.”
To “S. M. Herald” this was “The Roosevelt
Offer.” The “new” “Daily Telegraph” construed it
as a declaration for “ ‘positive action’ against Japan,”
though Japan had not been named, and it insisted
that “Australia and the rest of the Empire must be
with him.”
What does “positive action” mean? ... .It means two
things, both simple, bloodless and effective.
One is to paralyse Japan’s Army and Navy by
cutting off her vital oil supply.
The other is to paralyse Japan’s economy by closing
the world’s markets to her goods.
And Australia was to be in this “positive action”
(“we in Australia must make it clear that we stand
behind America”), though the oil boycott was assigned
to the Americans and the Dutch of the Netherlands
East Indies. As long ago as 1905 our Dutch friends
saw a great Japanese fleet come into their waters to
fight Rozhdestvensky’s doomed “Armada,” believing
that it might stagger through Sunda Strait. If the
Dutch attempted an oil boycott no power on earth
could prevent the Japanese taking all the oil they
wanted, and the Dutch possessions with it, before
help could come.
For five days nothing more was heard of “the
Roosevelt Offer.” Then it boiled down to a mildly-
expressed “purpose to co-operate with the other signa-
tories to the Nine-Power Treaty, including China and
Japan, in the search for means to peace.” No refer-
ence to “positive action,” and none was ever made.
To avoid any appearance of being provocative, the
Government which was represented by the “Daily
Telegraph” as on the point of boycotting Japan—and
such a boycott could only mean war —wouldn’t even
agree to hold the Nine-Power Conference in Washing-
ton, though the original Nine-Power Treaty was there
signed. A Democratic Senator, since reported in the
“Daily Telegraph,” has explained that “the President
definitely had it in mind to assure the country that
he would not get the United States into a war.”
Not for the first time, the Fremantle lumpers
have inflicted a grave injury on Australia. But their
offence is not so rank as that of the “Daily Telegraph.”
The Still-tempted Anthony.
Borrowing the jargon of the British Left Wing Press,
which manufactures a world crisis almost every week,
Mr. Anthony Eden discovered the other day that “a
situation of acute gravity” had been reached in Spain.
Thereupon he delivered what has been interpreted as
“a warning to the Fascist Powers,” and this when,
according to his own arrangement, the Non-interven-
tion Committee was about to meet.
Democrats have no use for Fascism, but to
cherish delusions about it is folly. In the countries
that have adopted it, Fascism arose as an organised
reply to Communism. In desperate circumstances it
saved each of those countries from a Red civil war,
and because it draws its strength from race and tradi-
tion it seems destined to beat Communism wherever
battle is joined.
Unpalatable as the thought may be, Italy and
Germany count for far more than they did before
they embraced Fascism. So is Japan stronger because
of its association with them. On the other hand,
France has been going down ever since it began
coquetting with the Communist Republic, and British
influence has suffered because of the belief that Mr.
Eden has tied British policy to French policy, and
may have tied it to Russian policy.
In Mr. Eden’s time as Minister, short as it is,
not only Italy but Belgium and Portugal have removed
themselves from the British orbit. The Belgians, for
a century Britain’s obedient servants, have even made
a treaty of neutrality with the Germans without refer-
ence to London —a move unthinkable before Anthony
came along.
As for the Communist Republic, its situation
is almost as bad as it can be. At home, as the
“Times” puts it, “a horrible routine of trials and kill-
ings has become a normal feature of the daily news” ;
and abroad “the damage which these ultra-Georgian
tactics have done to the prestige of the Soviet Union
has been enormous.” And the tails of the Oriental
controllers of the Oriental socialism known as Com-
munism are well down. Hence the change from world
revolution to collective security, and the demands of
Moscow agents and dupes in British countries for
British “action” in Spain and China and British
Empire boycotts of Japan.
In Palestine there is almost open war between
the Arabs and the Jews. The task of pacification falls
on John Bull, and it is trouble enough—and more
than enough. Britain should employ no Foreign
Minister who goes looking for more trouble in other
quarters.
The Senate as Safeguard.
There was no Senate election in 1929, the year in
which the depression and the Scullin-Theodore Gov-
ernment arrived. Had there been one, delirious
experiments in “the release of credits” would have
been added to Australia’s other woes.
Now, as then, a non-Labor majority in the Senate
is necessary as a safeguard against political control of
banking and currency. It may be required for protec-
tion against still more dangerous adventures if Mos-
cow men become as dominant in the A.L.P. as they
are in trade-unions and trade-union associations.
Because so much of its support comes from indus-
trial districts, the Labor party has a better chance of
winning a Senate election than a House of Repre-
sentative election. To give an illustration, Mr. Beasley
may count on having a majority of 20,000-odd in
West Sydney. If it is actually 20,100, the 20,000
votes are no good to him or his party ; but if dupli-
cated on Senate ballot-papers they will be worth
the full 20,000 to Messrs. A , A , A and
A (it is so hard to remember the gentlemen’s
names).
The Senate is a pre-selected Chamber, and is no
great argument for pre-selection. Proportional repre-
sentation might be the means of effecting a change
for the better. The “Age” is advising its readers to
support the Victorian Labor Senate ticket as a protest
against the non-introduction of P.R. The joke is that
Labor would oppose it if introduced ; and one of the
“Age’s” proteges says he would have to oppose the
existence of the Senate if abolition were put to the
vote.
The First Loyalty.
British Left Wing newspapers which attacked the
Canadian P.M. for saying at the Imperial Conference
that his country won’t be dragged into any of their
damned Moscow wars have a new target for their
invective. Lord Tweedsmuir, the G.-G., who was John
Buchan, has declared in effect that Canada is a
sovereign State, and no obsequious instrument of
Anthony Eden or “Cronk-News” policy.
Canada’s first loyalty must not be to the British
Commonwealth but to Canada. It must determine its
own attitude to world affairs.
So, of course, must Australia and Maoriland. It
doesn’t mean dissociation from Britain. It means
that no British politician or group of interventionists
or set of lying journalists will be permitted to commit
the Dominions to wars in which the safety and
interests of the Empire are not involved.
This should be made a non-party matter.
Defence, too.
Fortifying Darwin.
A committee sitting in Canberra has decided that
Darwin must be replanned and fortified.
At the moment it is a tin-can sort of town with
a wharf which bends in the middle and streets full
of Chinese. Its garrison numbers about 150. Its
aerodrome equipment would fetch a high price in
the antique market.
If a foreign foe invaded Darwin, and the garri-
son had to retire, the train would be requisitioned
if it didn’t happen to be a few hundred miles south.
Mrs. Ameas Gunn called it a “friendly, bushwhacking
old train.” Even in its giddy youth it was not built
for speed, nor was the railway on which it runs built
to carry heavy loads.
Darwin is not a defence post at present. It is
merely a deathtrap for the garrison, which could not
fight a force bigger than a light cruiser’s landing-
party.
However, cruiser docks and forts are to be built,
guns mounted, the aerodrome reorganised and the
garrison increased. The job is to cost about £400,000.
A couple of million —they spent that on the civil aero-
drome alone at Singapore—would not be too much
to give Australia a decent naval base in the north.
Australian plans for northern defence compare ill
with those of the Dutch East Indies, which can be
reached from the Australian coastline in two hours.
The Dutch East Indies Navy is to be made
stronger than the present Australian Navy. Increase
of the air force to 200 aeroplanes will give the Dutch
more than we have, and they are raising nearly four
times as many civilian troops as Australia possesses.
This last move shows what the Dutch think of the
urgency of the international situation. Hitherto it
has always been their policy to train and arm only
a bare necessary minimum of their colored overseas
subjects.
And the Dutch have far less to lose than
Australia.
Civil Liberties.
Melbourne’s Council of Civil Liberties is sending
teams into Victorian electorates to support candidates
pledged to the “repeal of obnoxious clauses of the
Crimes Act, the Transport Workers Act, the censor-
ship of books on political grounds and the application
to immigrants of the dictation test on political and
social grounds.”
Eugene Gorman, who presided over the public
C.C.L. meeting that determined this action, recalled
that in its early days the C.C.L. had striven for the
rights of speech and publication for those with whose
views most of its members disagreed.
Yet those were the very people when a German
[Felix von Luckner] with whose politics they disagreed
sought to land here, were the most vociferous in demand-
ing that he should be banned as a prohibited immi-
grant. That German, Fascist or otherwise, had as much
right to land here and express his views, abhorrent
though they might be to many Australians, as Kisch had
to land and speak.
This is the right spirit, and if it sticks to this
spirit the C.C.L. can do useful work.
Another Testimonial.
When R. S. Maynard, president of the Australian
Advertising Association, reached London he found
Australia House in the same old expensive place in
the Strand. This may have surprised him —senior
officials of the gloomy pile figure regularly in the
Geneva news, and there is an impression abroad that
the London organisation has been shifted bodily to
Switzerland. Mr. Maynard was not pleased with the
conditions which he found behind the dying explorer
who guards the portals of what Londoners call the
Australian Memorial Shrine.
He found “our displays in England pathetic” and
those at Australia House “dreadful”:
I was shocked at a display of Tasmanian apples—
small green fruit covered with black spots and tied
with blue ribbon. Advertising of Australian butter on
the British market is difficult because we have no
special brand.
Mr. Maynard is a veteran among advertising men
and in the front rank of the business. He is also an
expert in land matters, and few can tell him anything
he doesn’t know about dairy cattle. On matters affect-
ing publicity his opinion is as sound as any which
could be obtained.
His remarks endorse those expressed during the
past ten years by visiting Australians, British port
authorities and sellers of Australian produce in
London.
Probably, however, the Government will listen to
Mr. Maynard no more than it has listened to other
critics. And things will drag on as usual in Australia
House, with its pictures of surf gods and red-shirted
wheat-farmers and its unique collection of museum
exhibits, which seem to be mainly designed to adver-
tise the zeal and industry of the Australian blowfly.
Victorian Marketing Boards.
Victorian hen-farmers have divided into warring
camps over Hogan’s egg board, and potato-growers
are blessing them for drawing attention to the pin-
pricks they have suffered since the imposition of
marketing regulations. The spud-men were given the
chance to establish their own board under the pro-
visions of Hogan’s Marketing Act. They quite defi-
nitely said there was nothing doing.
But Hogan maintains that the poultrymen who
count are satisfied with their board. He blames
the U.A.P. Opposition for discord among the cackle-
berry collectors, and hints that the present troubles
date from imposition of the 150-hen voting qualifi-
cation.
So they do; but, as Hogan well knows, if
people owning as few as 25 fowls could have voted,
there never would have been an egg board. Only 851
of 1286 chook-valets with more than 150 hens
declared for the Hogan board. This handful wished
marketing regulations on to people owning down to
25 hens —and experts say that owners of fewer than
100 hens run 60 p.c. of Victoria’s cacklers.
Operations of the chicory and onion boards, two
more Hogan babies, revealed to spud-men another
risk they weren’t prepared to take. These boards
virtually fix Victorian prices, but' they cannot regulate
inter-State markets or prevent produce from other
parts being sold in Melbourne. Potato people know
that if the price fixed by a local board were higher
than that at which Tasmanian growers could sell
profitably in Melbourne, they would lose sales ; and
potatoes are a perishable product, the quality of which
varies from district to district and month to month.
These “baby” boards cannot be exposed to dis-
solution polls until they have been operating for two
years, as Hogan has told angry egg-producers facing
another year of regulation. Their farcical possibili-
ties are well illustrated by the chicory board, which
plays with a product grown nowhere else in Australia
and is therefore an ideal one to “regulate.” But not
all chicory men favored a board. Some sell at Vic-
torian rates on inter-State markets. They’re better
off than the majority who voted the board in—the
inter-State market price isn’t liable to board deduc-
tions —and at any future poll it is going to pay them
to vote the board back into power.
Tying strings to local marketing can be an expen-
sive experiment in more ways than one.


Soriety
"AND IT'S PRINTED WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Jamwood”: On one point members
of all the parties are agreed. The
modern youth of both sexes is keen on
field sports, surf-bathing, motoring,
cycling, aeroplaning, dancing, skating,
talkies, radio, gallopers, trotters, dogs and
light—very light —reading, but you can’t
get him or her to take an interest in
politics. In desperation those whose
business it is to whip up votes have
formed U.A.P. Younger Sets and A.L.P.
Younger Sets. Knuts and flappers join
them and feast their eyes on the spec-
tacle of elder statesmen of a full habit
dumping round dance floors; but that’s
as far as they will go. They can’t be
dragged to meetings ; and as for burning
the midnight oil analysing the policies
spread before them or trying to arrive
at the difference between the political
philosophy of Tweedledum and that of
Tweedledee, they simply refuse to do it.
The efforts of leaderwriters, pamphleteers
and spellbinders are all in vain. If the
sex interest were introduced it might be
different. Perhaps the attractive widow
who brightened a dull Victorian election
started a revolution in our drab politics.
She was the only candidate who had
crowded houses, and she got in.
V * ijt * *
“Policy”: A candidate for a berth at
Canberra was responsible for this: “I
admit our Australian navy couldn’t do
mfich to protect us, but it must be re-
membered it is still in an embroglio
stage.”
* * * *
“Wagga”: Signs on public buildings,
like the labels on certain tins and bottles,
are apt to mislead the unwary. 1 have
just read, in an article written by J. A.
Christy for an Afrikander paper that
“Australia has fine picture theatres, many
of them owned by the State. The State
Theatre in Sydney is one of the best in
the world.” I’m now wondering how
dividends are panning out on these State
theatrical ventures, including the shows
presumably controlled by the royal family
—His Majesty’s, the King’s Theatre, and
so on.
;i‘. "i- v
“D.E.”: It is no secret that Dame
Eadith Walker was a very wealthy woman,
but even members of old Sydney families
who knew her father were incredulous
when they read in the “Sun” that her
death would mean that charity would
get “at least £750,000, and perhaps
£1,000,000,” from her dad’s estate. The
“Sun” added that “Upon the Perpetual
Trustee Co., as trustees, devolves the task
of deciding which charities shall benefit,
and in what proportion” ; and it went on
to mention that, as for the moiety not
left to charity, Scottish records would
have to be ransacked for next-of-kin,
“perhaps even to the time of Mary
Queen of Scots.” Perpetual Trustees
promptly announced, “on behalf of the
trustees,” that they could “give no infor-
mation as to the distribution of the
Thomas Walker estate,” but “the figures
published were inaccurate and entirely
unauthorised.” Just as if the stuff had
been “reliably reported” or “learned on
unimpeachable authority” by the “Cronk
News.” Apropos, it has been stated that
Dame Eadith lived all her life in Yaralla,
the Thomas Walker house at Concord.
Not all her life. Governor - General
Munro Ferguson was in residence at
Yaralla on July 31, 1914, when he re-
ceived from London the historic warning
that “Australian ships should ta/e up
their preliminary stations.”
* * * *
“Scorpio”: The erratic use of the
aspirate (B. 6/10/’37) sometimes pro-
duces startling results. A Brisbane store-
man used to spend the week-ends fishing
on Moreton Bay. On one occasion the
dinghy capsized. His description of the
incident is still quoted: “Hover went the
boat, hout went ’Erbert and Hi, and ’Erb
came hup with a hoar hunder heach
harm.”
=l= * * *
“Sally”: Reporting a wedding that
didn’t happen finished a Maoriland
flapper’s journalistic career. Her boy
friend blew into town on the day fixed for
the ceremony, a fashionable one, and as
“Blast yer, Joe — you're three ounces overweight. Been gorgin' again?"
the lady scribe had already collected full
details of the gowns of the official party,
list of guests and so forth, she felt
safe in writing a glowing description of
the affair, handing it in and going for
a joy-ride. All would have been well,
too, if the ’groom-to-be hadn’t celebrated
his last day of freedom so enthusiastically
that when the time for the ceremony came
he couldn’t stand, at an altar or anywhere
else. At that time all marrying in M.L.
had to be over by 4 p.m., so a weeping
bride was hurried home. But that was
nothing to the sensation caused by the
appearance of the wedding report in the
evening paper, especially when it was
disclosed later that the bride had turned
the ’groom down with contumely and
refused ever to speak to him again. The
only two who got married were the re-
porteress and the boy friend. She, having
lost her job, decided it was the best thing
to do.
* * * #
“Kwakprak”: A lady writer has been
making flapper flesh to creep by the
alleged discovery in Rome of recipes for
10 deadly poisons used by the Borgias.
All were so appalling that they have
been locked up in a London bank, for
fear they should get into the hands of
the wrong people. As a matter of crude
fact, the only poison used by that charm-
ing family was made by rubbing pow-
dered arsenic into the fresh carcass of
a fat pig, hanging it up in the sun and
collecting the fat-drippings. These were
used in the preparation of a special
dish for the unwanted, who, if the job
was successful, expired some hours later.
The yarns about guests turning black
and dropping dead at the hospitable
board, while the family uttered cold
mediaeval sniggers, are complete non-
sense. Any chemist’s apprentice to-day
knows more about poisons than did ail
of mediaeval Europe.
* * * *
“Mak”: When the Springboks boarded
their South African ship, most of them
were wearing promising growths of
whisker. The bosses —even victorious
amateurs must have a boss or two —have
ruled that moustaches will be de rigger
on the homeward voyage ; so the South
African girls-they-left-behind-them are
due for a shock. If one of the ’andsome
and dashing Test wingers has a girl
friend, she’s in for the biggest surprise
of the lot, and not from his whiskers,
either; he’s wearing the dazed look some
Sydney lasses leave on their victims when
they break a clinch. Says he’ll be back
—soon.
* * * *
“Jachris”: Dies and punches made in
London for new shillings, threepenny bits
and pennies have arrived in Melbourne,
and the Mint should have the first batch
ready in two or three months. The new
designs will bring our coins more into line
with modern ideas in such things. On
the front there will be the head of the
reigning George, same as on the Corona-
tion crown pieces—now rarely seen. On
the back of the threepence will be three
ears of wheat; on the penny a kangaroo
(quite a natural-looking animal), and
there will be the head of a merino on the
shilling. This last, the best of the bunch,
is in much the same style as its M.L.
counterpart. Sixpences and ha’pennies
haven’t been considered yet, but the florin
is to have the coat-of-arms as before,
though of new design—“bolder and more
striking,” with the ’roo’s tail straightened
and with the emu standing firm on two
legs. Apropos, the P. and 0., now cele-
brating its centenary, has modernised its
arms, and the kangaroo has been given a
place, though his “long unheraldic tail”
proved troublesome. The new device
hasn’t been seen here yet, but the co. is
out with an apology. The public is asked
to have compassion on the artist, who had
to fit the animal into rather an awkwardly-
shaped auarter of the shield.
* t- * *
“T.A.”: I don’t know who coined the
phrase “Six Families” as applied to cer-
tain Westralian clans (B. 13/10/’37), but
the first man to put it into general cir-
culation was J. Horgan, an Irish lawyer.
In the ’eighties, when submitting himself
for election as a councillor for the Perth
municipality, he argued that “the colony
could do with some new blood, he not
being a member of the ‘Six Families’
who were fastened like limpets on to
every Government job that was avail-
able.” The phrase tickled the ears of
the community—and stuck.
“Frizzy”: The barber I favor is a
rarity—he is bald of head and still of
fongue. But the other day I found him
talkative to a degree. A fellow of about
28 had come into the shop, seated him-
self in the chair, arranged himself and
casually demanded a~ permanent wave.
My old-timer drew himself stiffly erect,
glared, and, in a voice which came from
about the third button of his waistcoat,
replied: “There’s a ladies’ hairdressery up
along the road. I only attend to men.”
* * *
“Den”: “Bight” (B. 29/9/’37) erred in
stating that “an American whaler saved
the survivors of Eyre’s expedition in
1841.” The ship in question, the Missi-
sippi, was French, and its commander,
Captain Rossitter, an Englishman.
*
“T.”: The great revival in pushbiking,
mentioned in a recent paragraph, is be-
ginning to show on the sharemarket. A
holding company fed by four concerns
which assemble and sell pushbikes in a
big way has declared a 10 p.c. dividend
on ordinary shares, and could have paid
more. The former boom in cycling came
in with the song “Daisy Bell.” As any
veteran dealer in gramophone (no,
phonograph) records will tell you, the
ancient ditty never quite lost its vogue,
but for 40 years at least three of its lines
ceased to have any point:
And you’ll look sweet
Upon the seat
Of a bicycle built for two.
Nowadays they have regained their
former significance: you can see couples
on tandems again ; and, in Sydney at
least, there seem more about every week.
The new-style bike has one great advan-
tage —it is much easier to pedal than
the old-style jigger. On the other hand,
it hasn’t the freedom of the road that
the old-style jigger had when there was
little or no motor traffic. With the
spacious ideas of goldfields pioneers, the
planners of Kalgoorlie and other West-
ralian mining towns reserved space for
cyclists on their wide footpaths. It
wouldn’t- astonish me a bit if that old
custom came in again, in some parts of
Australia anyway.
;j: $ 'i'
“Physician” puts in a word for our
Portuguese allies:
Much has been written lately about the poor
qualities of the Portuguese in France. ' They
had the defects to be expected of very ignorant
peasants, 60 p.c. of them illiterate, fighting in a
war in which they took no interest, under a
Government which they disliked, and under
officers who had no heart in their job. It was
a rare thing in Portuguese units for officers
to go beyond the support line, and their com-
plete disregard of the men’s comfort and safety
was the final blow to any small military fervor
the latter may have had.
In hospital (other than the “skin” hospitals)
they were good, biddable patients, a little wor-
ried by the* fussiness of nurses and orderlies
in the matter of cleanliness. They came to
France uninoculated against typhoid; and lor
some weeks we had a taste of what the cam-
paign would have been like without inocu-
lation. The percentage of relapses—high fever,
delirium, abdominal distension, haemorrhage and
perforation —was far above that seen in in-
oculated men.
They were grateful, too, and remembered
those who had looked after them. I was much
embarrassed on Boulogne platform one attei-
noon in 1918 by a large Pork and Beans kneel-
ing at my feet, kissing my hands and
invoking blessings. It was Santos, whom I had
brought through cerebral spinal fever moie
than a year before.
But whatever might be said about the Portu-
guese as soldiers, no one could deny that their
canteens could supply a wonderful port.
NOT A PARTY QUESTION.
“The Prime Minister, speaking at Adelaide, said
the steadily decreasing birthrate is the worst menace
that threatens Australia.”
Jack and Jill, and all you others, embryotic
dads and mothers,
Don’t you realise the time has come to try
Overcoming your objection to the Scriptural
direction
That exhorts us to increase and multiply?
“Wear More Wool!” is an injunction often
thrown at you with unction,
But Lyons has another that outbids
Any other you can mention for immediate
attention- —
“Have More Kids!”
Among numerous monitions framed to free
you from physicians,
“Eat More Apples!” is a line that’s hard
to beat;
And the husbandman, no question, will approve
of the suggestion
(Though the, husband groan and murmur),
“Cook More Wheat!”
But if you would, inter alia, keep the flag of
our Australia
Flying, high, and keep her schooner off the
skids,
Here’s the first consideration for the welfare
of the nation —
“Have More Kids! ”
“Drink More Milk!” if you’ve a mind to and
the cocky you’d be kind to;
“Drink More Beer!” if you prefer a stronger
brew;
“Eat More Apricots and Peaches!” —and there
ripen on our beaches
Rosy bunches nice enough to nibble, too ;
But the race must have its scions, so be mind-
ful of our Lyons,
To whom all other rulers lift their lids.
“Eat More” —anything you want to, but here’s
something straight and pronto:
“Have More Kids!”
N.S.W.
PIPARDS.


“Bow Bells”: I read in the dailies that
a Berlin crowd chanted “Vindsor, Vind-
sor” with hospitable enthusiasm when
Britain’s wandering ex-King arrived the
other day in the German capital. It sug-
gests that the Teuton proletariat are still
a little confused, like “I-spells-it-with-a-
wee” Sam Weller and “Quite-right-my-
lud-put-it-down-a-wee” Tony Weller,
Dickens’s creations, about Vs and Ws. I
have noticed it before now among
north-eastern Europeans, Russians and
Poles particularly. But a recent writer
on Cockney pronunciation asserts that
the misuse of “v” for “w” and “w” for
“v” is a thing of the past in Londoners’
speech, even that to be heard from
Whitechapel costermongers and Covent
Garden porters. I wonder.
* * * *
“H.A.L.”: After leaving school I
spent three years in a bank, and I have
since come to realise that those years
weren’t wasted. As a compliment to my
handwriting I was put on passbooks ;
the bank carried the accounts of some
of the best-known people in the State,
and it did not take me long to realise
that name, fame and mode of living were
no guide whatever to a man’s financial
standing. At one end of the scale was
a bewhiskered old farmer who visited
the bank twice a year, dressed in a ready-
made suit and working boots ; he was
worth six figures in fixed deposits alone,
“ Scram , mother -we found this place first!”
and by referring to back ledgers one
could see how that fortune had been
built up from the day when he was sue-
cessful in a land ballot. At the other
end was a man with the reputation of
being a financial wizard with a Midas
touch, but in reality he was mortgaged
to the eyebrows. The first blast of the
depression laid him low, and he never
rose again.
“W.P.T.”: The strangest souvenir I
ever saw was in the possession of an old
miner who had taken part in the Lamb-
ing Flat riots. It was a Chinaman’s pig-
tail. A number of Celestials had been
forcibly deprived of these during the
riots. The trophies were used by
bullock-drivers for whiplashes, and many
coach-drivers in the district utilised the
hair for their whips.
* * * *
“Bidford”: A cable mentions that
Southwark Cathedral (London), which
needs £25,000 for re-
pairs, is the place
where William Shaks-
peare’s brother Edmund
was buried. Reference
books give the number
of William’s brothers
and sisters as seven.
Three, all girls, died in
infancy or early child-
hood, but Gilbert,
Richard, the Edmund
aforesaid, and one
sister, Joan, lived to
maturity. Edmund was
the youngest. He was
16 years younger than
William, and died in
1607, but little record
is left of him except
(vide the Encyc. Brit.)
that “he had become
an actor, most probably
through his brother’s
help and influence.” It
is curious that all the
stupendous genius of
John and Mary Shaks-
peare’s progeny should have centred in
the eldest of them.
* * * *
“G.G.”: Green and gold, according
to Minister Dunningham, are the colors
approved by the Celebrations Council
for the Ma State’s 150th birthday shivoo.
He added that they had already been
adopted by Australian cricket teams,
Olympic representatives and other sport-
ing bodies. It is many a year since I
first saw those bi-colored blazers on
cricket grounds, and I used to wonder
whether early Australian teams in Eng-
land had got the idea from Kendall’s
“After Many Years”:
No longer does the earth reveal
Her gracious green and gold.
If they did, it is probably the only time
on record where sporting bodies have
gone to a poet for a color scheme.
* * * *
“Ex-Mister”: Amid the gloom of a
Scottish ship-breaking yard, hissing oxy-
acetylene flames are dismembering the
vast steel skeleton of the Olympic, for
reconversion into new armament. Sister
to the Titanic, the Olympic was, in her
day, the world’s biggest ship. A triple-
screw oil-burner, she was designed to
give a speed of 23 knots, but never quite
reached it on an Atlantic crossing. Most
of the world’s most famous people for a
generation were numbered among her
passengers. In war days she became a
transport, with accommodation for 5000
troops, and fought a successful action
with a German submarine. She fetched
£lOO,OOO last year for breaking up, and,
what with fittings, furnishings, assorted
metals and scrap steel, must have yielded
a handsome profit to the* undertakers.
“Valencia Creek”: Not content with
inflicting scores of their own jazz lyrics
on us. the Yanks have had the nerve to
lift “Waltzing Matilda” and send it back
to us recorded in jazz tempo. I sup-
pose it won’t be long now before Duke
“Better close your eyes for this one, dearie - I'm a bit out of form.”
Elkington or Fats Waller starts hottin’
up the “Old Bark Hut” and “The Wild
Colonial Boy.” By the way, does
anyone know who wrote “Waltzing
Matilda”? It has been attributed to
Banjo Paterson, but I understand that
he disclaims authorship.
“Murihiku”: “Kafooselum” was a
song of the troops (B. 22/10/ ’37). The
best collection of soldier songs I know
is Tommy’s Tunes, first published in
1917. The collector, F. T. Nettleingham,
2nd Lieutenant, R.F.C., says in an amus-
ing preface:
Soldier readers of this work will appreci-
ate to what extent I have purged some of
their favorites, and will appreciate all the
more the reason I found it impossible to
present even a purged version of such songs
as “Miralto Me Re,” “Kafooselum, the
Harlot of Jerusalem,” and “B. Bill; the
Sailor.” It is worth placing on record
for all time their titles, though I doubt
very much whether their rhyming lines will
ever find a rest in the British Museum.
In More Tommy Tunes, published in
1918, the music of “Kafooselum”
appears.
# * # *
“G.A.8.”: Outback I ran across an
old German pioneer whose family .ex-
panded faster than the space in his
dwelling. This was a shedlike structure
containing one huge, long bedroom in
which all members of the family
slept, regardless of sex. 1
pointed out the desirability of
separate apartments, at least in
the case of the older boys and
girls; and I.suggested a division
of the big room by simple par-
titions. The old chap listened
and was impressed. On my next
visit, some six months later, I
was given an enthusiastic wel-
come. “I haf take your goot
advice.” Proudly, he led me inside,
where I gaped in astonishment. The
long room was divided into three separate
sections by neat partitions—of stout
wire-netting!
JJI }(i
“Karaway”: The Sino-Jap war has
made many a rubbish-heap worth the
attention of suburban fossickers. The
unsightly piles on vacant allotments and
along gullies and creeks are raked over
for scrap iron, including bits of tin and
wire and old pots and pans. Even tins
help to pile up war material. This scrap
iron is one item of many that this country
has been throwing away or dumping in
the sea.
“Ben Nevis”: Rural “metal mer-
chants” (B. 11/8/'37)7 A couple of
enterprising youths in our district spent
some weeks fossicking in an abandoned
rifle-range target-mound. They chopped
down the bank, sieved the earth through
an old wire mattress and were rewarded
with a goodly return of spent bullets and
nickel Put up in kerosene-tins and
rail c if! to Sydney, it found a ready market.
* * * *
“Flunkey”: Commenting on the visit
to Australia of the late King “Oxmead”
doubts if “such an aura or halo ever sur-
rounded a visiting royalty before or ever
w in again” (B. 6/10/’37). He overlooks
the hero-worship indulged in by Walter
Scott when George IV. visited Edinburgh.
Yimous writer was not ashamed to
souvenir the glass the King drank from
when Scott and other notables of the
period welcomed him on board his yacht,
and to carry it off in his coat-tail pocket
to be preserved as a precious relic. Un-
fortunately, returning in a boat to the
shore, Sir Walter sat on the glass and
broke it.
* * * *
“Der Jong”: Reference to the old
Boer “roiers” (B. 6/10 / ’37) recalls that,
after Lord Roberts’s insistence as a con-
dition of granting parole to surrendering
Boers that all rifles should be handed in,
the crop of these weapons and others
even more ancient was staggering. Writer
joined the South African Constabulary
at Ficksburg in the second year of the
war, and saw there a collection of ancient
weapons which vied with the armory
at the Tower. There were specimens,
of the Springfield rifle which finally
gave the Federal cavalry superiority
over Jeb Stuart’s Confederate rebs.,
while hitherto unheard-of weapons once
used by European armies were numerous,
together with muzzle-loading game rifles
by famous English makers that might
have been used by Gordon Cumming or
Samuel Baker. Those who can recall
those days will remember that, when the
paroled burghers “oopsaaled” and went
on commando again in due course, they
were all supplied with first-class Mausers
which had been reverently buried in the
little private cemetery attached to most
Boer farms.
* * * *
“Questo”: A defendant before the
Redcliffe (Q.) Industrial Magistrate,
charged with having done painting work
on a Saturday, quoted from Exodus
xx, 9: “Six days shalt thou labor and
do all thy work.” He contended that
the Biblical command took precedence
of all man-made laws, entitling him to
work on a Saturday despite industrial
legislation. The magistrate thought
otherwise to the extent of £1 and costs.
* * * *
“Marsh”: Victorians other than those
mentioned (B. 6/10/’37) invaded pastoral
Queensland in the earlies, but none be-
fore Donald Maclntyre, who in the ’six-
ties left Victoria seeking traces of Leich-
hardt. After a couple of years of vain
searching Maclntyre became the owner
of Dalgonelly station near Julia Creek
(n.-w. Q.). A grave on the station near
the road that leads to Normanton marks
the last resting-place of the explorer-
pastoralist. Tyson, also a Victorian, was
early in the field, as were several from
the Western District, including the Arm-
strongs, Macks, Urquharts and Chirn-
sides. In those early days none pro-
duced better horses than the Chirnsides
at Vindex (W.Q.).
f * * *
“Koombooloomba”: Why pick on the
Russian brand of gyratory mummery (B.
22/ 9/’37)? At the present time, all over
rural England people are dressing up
in fantastic costumes, waving handker-
chiefs and prancing up and down village
streets, “expressing” something or other,
in a revival of old folk dances. As the
British birthrate is still declining, the
revival must be no more genuinely ex-
pressive than the mad-dervish whirlings
of the Muscovites.
IN THE DARK HOURS.
Tis one o’clock, and on the street
Falls silence, deep and vast;
There is no sound of morning feet,
No whistling boy goes past.
Across the street, from houses where
No more sounds song or speech,
Blank windows at blank windows stare,
As though each questioned each.
In gardens dark red roses swoon
And drooping laurels doze;
A nor’-east wind that blew since noon,
Tired out, no longer blows.
No green cicada wakes to call
The world to life anew;
Flower-sleep, tree-sleep, wind-sleep hold all,
And man lies sleeping too.
All sleep, or seem to sleep. Yet, hark! — •
Though wide are slumber’s bounds—
A collier moving in the dark
Her warning whistle sounds.
Past beacon-light and beacon-light,
’Mid silence, deep and wide,
Outward or inward through the night
She steals across the tide.
As land-lamps, lighting slope and ridge,
Gleam white, a ghostly band,
A man stands watchful on her bridge,
Flame-flushed her firemen stand.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


•5*
10 for 9 d j
WI884
All over the world Craven A
are appreciated for the
excellence of their quality.
CRAVENA
ARE MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS
w
T H IS
G E N E R A T I
POLITICAL POINTS
A few hours after Curtin said he was
against a boycott of Japan, a boycott
began. It was imposed in Curtin’s own
electorate of Fremantle by wharf-
laborers on whom he depends for
nomination as a Labor candidate and for
election, and whose union is one of the
organisations that finance his party.
When put to the proof, his influence on
these wharf-laborers in a vital matter of
Australian policy was precisely nil.
Lyons to the Commonwealth:
We want peace, and we have pledged our-
selves to co-operate with Britain to maintain
peace. That is the only pledge I gave at
the Imperial Conference.
It lacks only six words to be wholly
satisfactory: “There will be no more
‘sanctions.’ ”
Lang flays a deserter:
Member of a Labor Government con-
fronted with a great crisis, he deserted the
party and the Government when it had
reached the most difficult stage in its exist-
ence.
Beasley? No, Lyons !
The Protectionist “Age,” which sup-
ported the Victorian Country party three
weeks ago, and which calls itself
“Liberal,” a word that in Britain denotes
a Freetrader, advises its readers to vote
Labor for the Senate. In Victoria, of
course. There are six lots of Senators to
be elected, but the “Age” is not inter-
ested in other States.
Belgium has signed a treaty of neu-
trality with Germany. It is another
proof of the decline of French influence
on the Continent since the Gauls made
their arrangement with Moscow. Brit-
ish influence has suffered for the same
reason. In other days Belgium and Por-
tugal never took a step in foreign politics
without British sanction. Nowadays they
mutter that Eden has let Litvinov have
the loan of his leg.
“To those who can read the signals it
is clear that Australia has already passed
the stage where further loan expenditure
would be beneficial.” So says an econo-
mist from Cambridge in the service of
the National Bank. Premier Stevens,
who is spending £3,000,000 p.a. through
the Sydney Water Board, and who spent
£7,182,500 last year on Government
account, protests that the signals are all
wrong.
Savage has been obliged to promise
Maoriland manufacturers that he will do
something for them, though he was care-
ful not to go into details or dates.
Especially in the boot and clothing
trades, Labor’s 40-hour week and swinge-
ing taxes, and the resultant mounting
costs, have hit them hard.
If he is to become P.M., Curtin needs
at least another 10 seats in the House,
and for a Senate majority after the end
of June he requires to win 19 of the 20
seats being contested. When the cam-
paign was entered upon his party
seemed to have excellent prospects in
Barton (N.S.W.), Macquarie (N.S.W.),
Adelaide and Darwin (Tas.), fair-to-
middling chances in Maranoa (Q.),
Wannon (Vic.), and Grey (S.A.), and
“possibles” in Martin (N.S.W.) and
Hume (N.S.W.). And indications were
that the Labor Senate tickets might score
in Queensland, Tasmania and Victoria.
Now the international situation has so
disturbed people’s minds that nothing is
certain. In some electorates old preju-
dices are operating, and both sides may
receive shocks.
Stevens has a great “press.” The ador-
ing “D.T.” came out with the assertion
that his Government’s accounts for the
first three months of the financial year
“show a surplus of £402,800.” Actually
there was a deficiency of £1,322,531.
Revenue amounted to £11,658,731 and
expenditure to £12,981,262.
Bob Ballantyne, of the Riverina Trans-
port Co., is tackling the transport
stranglers in a new field. He has come
out for the Riverina Federal seat on a
programme of which freedom of travel
throughout the Commonwealth is the
principal point. Plucky, for his oppo-
nents are a C.P. member in good stand-
ing (Nock) and a Narrandera farmer-
Labor man (Quirk) whose party has
hopes.
Like the Australian Senate, with its
one (1) elected A, the House of Com-
mons lends no support to the N.S. Wales
Labor theory that its A ticket will score
because people vote for the first names
that come to them. An alphabetical list
of the 615 members shows 22 As and 59
Ms, more than a third of them Macs. S
has 51 and H has 50. W, at the bottom
of the alphabetical tally, barring a couple
“I should like to ask the leader of your party a question.”
“Better make it four questions — we’re all leading it.”
of Ys, comes out much better than A at
the top. There are 38 Ws.
In the Assembly electorate of Ballarat,
which is, of course, part of the Federal
division, Hollway (U.A.P.) in 1935 beat
the Labor man by 9586 to 7646. On
October 2 his figures were 11,361 and the
Labor man’s 5720. Yes, Mr. Curtin says
Ballarat is a certainty for his side!
Having administered a succession of
shocks to the people of Canada, Mr.
Have-a-heart, the “Social Credit”
Premier, has suffered one himself. As
another step towards “monetising credit,”
he brought the press under despotic con-
trol, newspapers being obliged to take out
licenses, publish free any statement de-
manded by the Government and nothing
displeasing to the Government, and
reveal to it all sources of information.
Penalty, suppression. Four days after
the bill was passed, Alberta had a by-
election, the first since “Social Credit”
arrived. The Have-a-heart man was hor-
ribly licked, the adverse majority being
4500. And, according to the “New Era,”
which warmly approves of all his pro-
ceedings, Mr. Have-a-heart had “threat-
ened” a general election, “within forty
days, if necessary.”
Lang has been dipping into the his-
tory of Australia’s Great War effort and
cooking scraps of it for his public. He
takes good care not to quote a warning
message from Whitehall to the Austra-
lian Government dated August 4, 1914:
Be on your guard against the possibility
of an attack in advance of any formal de-
claration of war.
Formal declarations of war have since
been dispensed with. Lang and Curtin
should notify all enemies that a rever-
sion to the old practice will be insisted
upon. Under the Constitution they will
need six months for the referendum
which is to decide whether Australia will
fight.
Macfarlan’s “Country 'and Liberal”
section of the Vic. U.A.P. has gone
where the unwanted groups go. It was
formed in the hope of reuniting the
U.A.P. and the C.P., and was ready to
furnish the leader —in fact, several leaders,
if wanted —but the Cockies wouldn’t
bite. They had a whole 20 members in
a House of 65, and there aren’t enough
portfolios to go round.
Simultaneously with the news that
“during the past week 63 political death
sentences were announced in official
newspapers,” it was intimated that “the
first elections for the Supreme Coun-
cil of the U.S.S.R. will take place on
December 12,” and that “the official
slogan will be ‘Vote for Stalin.’ ” Short
for “Vote for Stalin or Stop a Bullet in
the Back of the Neck.”
By way of showing that the demo-
cratic spirit that lifted the Country party
from nothing is not extinct, the Mildura
branch of the Victorian organisation told
its members they were free to choose
between McClelland, Wimmera’s mem-
ber for five years, and Wilson, the
machine’s man. Whereupon Allnutt, the
local member for Mildura:. —
It is incumbent upon every branch to be
behind the endorsed candidate. Branches
are not allowed to support an unendorsed
candidate in any way.
A day or two later this tinpot tyrant got
what was coming to him. He was de-
feated for re-election as party Whip, the
job going to Martin, who beat the
machine in Gunbower. Allnutt is now
Allphut.
In the Sydney Six-hour Day proces-
sion the Amalgamated Postal Workers
carried a banner with the legend “Re-
duced Hours Create Employment.” No
doubt they make employment in post
offices and other Government depart-
ments, but they seem a dead failure at
doing it in taxpaying businesses. In spite
of its 40-hour week ordinance, the
U.S.A. has still 7,500,000 unemployed,
and there has been another tumble in
stocks and shares. The franc is again
very sick in France, and the harassed
Government is “modifying” its 40-hour-
week law. And even Savage and Nash are
being driven to realise that Maoriland
manufacturers are not feeling well.
From the North Shore:
Stewart would have beaten Parkhill if he had
come out for Warringah, as he said he would
do. In that case there would have been no
Labor candidate and Stewart would have got
6000 or 7000 Labor votes. Spender, K.C., who
is against pre-selection and State Parliaments,
is getting strong support among the young elec-
tors, particularly in Parkhill’s own suburb,
Mosman, but he has to share anti-Parkhill votes
with a Labor man, Salter, and Joe Hamlet.
Joseph is no mug on a platform, and, with
Canon Hammond campaigning for him, is
assured of the cold-tea vote, whatever that may
amount to. If Spender can get into the last
count he will give the Minister uneasy
moments. He would be a fair thing if the
North Shore hadn’t been let down by Kay.
Field - Marshal, Air - Marshal and
Admiral-of-the-Fleet Lang speaking: “If
China had had a superior air force,
there would have been no landing at
Shanghai and no bombing of defence-
less towns.”
A superior air force would have pre-
vented the Japanese landing and proved a
tremendous weapon in checking the advance
from Manchukuo.
The Allies had a superior air force on
the Western Front in March, 1918, but
it didn’t prevent the German army from
concentrating superior numbers and
wrecking the British Fifth Army. Had
the Allies depended on the superior air
force, the Germans would have driven a
wedge between the British and French
armies and reached the Channel ports.
Still booming Professor Roberts, “S.
M. Herald” mentions that, his latest
article on foreign affairs “has the ar-
resting title of Kaw-wak.” A very arrest-
ing title. Repeated, with the spelling
altered a bit, it would be perfectly ap-
propriate to most professorial rant on
foreign affairs —“Quack-quack”!
From the other side of Bass Strait:
On 1934 voting Tasmania should furnish
the closest contests of all next Saturday. In
Bass (Launceston), H. C. Barnard unseated
Allan Guy, then one of Lyons’s Ministers, by
11,984 to 11,818; and they are fighting it out
again. Barnard has been a good member, but
Bass is not normally a Labor electorate, and
Curtin had a noticeably small crowd at his
Launceston meeting. In Denison (Hobart),
Mahoney’s majority over Hutchin, the previous
U.A.P. member, was only 117 in a poll of
23,127, and he has McPhee against him this
time. McPhee was the one depression Premier
who was never defeated. In Darwin, Bell, the
Speaker, is finding the going rather rough.
He had 2145 votes to the good last time, but
in the intervening three years there has been
brisk industrial development in his electorate.
His opponent is a well-liked parson, Rev.
Brown. In spite of adverse State-election and
marketing-referendum figures, Lyons is con-
sidered safe in Wilmot.
[J. E. Webb and Cecil Mann, 252 George-
street, Sydney, sign anything requiring a signa-
ture in this issue.]


WITHIN THE LAW.
“As the law stands, a man may insult his wife repeatedly, get drunk, use foul language and beat her occasionally, but so long as his treatment does not impair her
health he is not legally cruel to her.”—Roper, J. (N.S.W.).


The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Incorporated in South Australia with Limited Liability.
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Capital Authorised .. .. £1,250,000
Capital Issued .. .. 1,250,000
Capital Paid Up £1,250,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 1,000,000
(Used partly in business and partly
in Government and approved
Securities.)
Reserve Liability of Shareholders ..£1,250,000
Also 107 Branches and Agencies in S'outh Australia.
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.3.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad
collected and proceeds remitted. All usual
banking business transacted.
a*uun*
aviViviVi u*
uuuaaui
luuuVlUVi'
r.m
Jk
FREEDOM FROM REPAIRS
DC PE NOS ON SPUR KIDD PIUGS
DEPEND ON Champions
You are more likely to avoid engine repairs
if you install new Champions every year.
Champions allow less carbon to form. They
keep engine power steady, reducing strain
and wear. And they save fuel.
An Empire product —
made in Windsor, Canada
RE-VITALIZE
YOUR CAR
WITH
Champions
Obtainable at all leading
automotive supply dealers
PERSONAL ITEM S
Langdon Bonython, who has cele-
brated his 90th birthday, is the Com-
monwealth’s oldest knight and its oldest
newspaper proprietor. He began his
newspaper career 74 years ago as a
junior on the Adelaide “Advertiser” staff,
and was sole proprietor when he sold out
to the Murdoch interests in 1929. He has
given over £lOO,OOO to Adelaide Univer-
sity and the School of Mines, and
recently wrote a cheque for another
£lOO,OOO to extend Parliament House.
He is one of the few surviving members
of the first Commonwealth Parliament.
St. Patrick’s Day celebrations in Syd-
ney will look a bit bare without the
figure of Patrick O’Loughlin, district
secretary of the H.A.C.8.5., who was
associated with them for 40 years. When
he retired from his regular job four years
ago he was decorated by the Pope.
Herbert de Yonge Scroggie’s legal-
looking figure is well known in Sydney
and around the Newcastle (N.S.W.) dis-
trict. After youthful experience on
Tabulam (N.S.W.), the station birthplace
of Harry Chauvel, he plunged into law
with Stephen, Lawrence and Jaques in
the ’eighties and began practice on his
own account in 1891. Now retired from
A Coalfields Figure.
the law, he is chairman of the Wallsend
Coal Co. and Newcastle Exchange and a
director of the Newcastle and Hunter
River Steamship Co. A fine athlete in
his youth, Scroggie still finds time to
sandwich walking, swimming, golf and
gardening in between his other occu-
pations. He’s rated an authority on sail-
ing ships.
No voyage of exploration to the
Antarctic is complete without an Aus-
tralian or two. The Royal Research
ship Discovery 11. will carry one in
A. W. Cornish, a young staff man
of the Commonwealth Meteorological
Bureau.
Arthur Mitchell, secretary and direc-
tor of Wilcox Mofflin until he resigned
the other day, had been more than 40
years with the firm and one of the best-
known men in the hide-and-skin trade.
Crossing the Tasman after his second
official visit to a British coronation, little
Doc. Maloney, 83-year-old doyen of the
Commonwealth Parliament, bruised some
ribs and has spent most of the election
campaign in hospital. The kindly little
man has been in the Reps, since 1904,
and before that had held West Mel-
bourne in the Victorian State House for
15 years. He is unopposed at the poll,
and is likely to remain so as long as he
is content to hold his seat.
“Pax”: The recent death of the Car-
dinal Archbishop of Seville now leaves
five vacancies in the College of Car-
dinals. There are 68 cardinals, of whom
37 are Italians. There are four Ameri-
cans, and only two citizens of the British
Empire (one in Ireland and one in
Canada). Two of the new cardinals may
be English. Archbishop Hinsley, of
Westminster, seems a certainty, and the
oiher might be Dr. Downey, Archbishop
of Liverpool, who visited Australia a
year or two ago. Australia has had no
cardinal since Cardinal Moran died in
1911.
W. F. L. Owen, now only 39, is the
first Digger to be appointed to the N. S.
Wales Supreme Court Bench, but not by
any means the first Owen. The first
William was son of a colonel of a High-
land regiment who was educated at
Adam Lindsay Gordon’s old school,
Cheltenham, and Trinity College, Dub-
lin, and who came to N. S. Wales in
1860, after being called to the Irish Bar.
He was a N. S. Wales Judge from 1884-
1908, and was knighted in 1906, the year
his son Langer Owen became a K.C. The
latter joined the Supreme Court Bench
in 1922, and sat on it till 1932. He, too,
was knighted in 1934. Three King’s
Counsel all on the Bench in one family
must be an Australian record.
Australians are found everywhere.
The latest to be heard from is G. W.
Lucas, a Victorian-born, whose father,
another Victorian now returned to his
native Melbourne, designed the Aus-
tralian War Memorial at Villers Bret.,
restored Ladysmith Town Hall after the
siege and gave S’Africa some of her best
public buildings. G.W., born in S. Yarra,
was educated mainly in Natal, and was
the colony’s 1910 Rhodes scholar. He
rowed for his Oxford college, and swam
and played water polo for his university
against Cambridge. Now a science
master, he has just been elected Mayor
of Grahamstown (S’Africa).
“El V.”: Printed that the eighth Edward
signed a visitors’ book in Berlin “Edward,
Herzogin von Windsor ." A Brisbane
daily placed big black headings over the
announcement, and no wonder. It is not
every day that a royal duke is able to
sign himself “Herzogin” —“duchess.”
In his heyday, William Brooks, dead at
79, was a familiar figure in Sydney
streets. His trim beard, his well-tailored
clothes, his spats and his dignified walk
suggested the moneyed scion of some
leisured English commercial family. But
he was self-made, educated in a Devon
board school, apprenticed as a com-
positor and delayed on the way to for-
tune through finding himself in the
middle of a guerilla war in Basutoland.
When he arrived in Sydney in ’B4, “S. M.
Herald” gave him a job as a comp, and
his foot was set on the ladder to fortune
as head of William Brooks and Co.,
printers and publishers. In political
organisation—he was an M.L.C. —for a
few years he was a power, and W. M.
WILLIAM BROOKS.
Hughes made him paper-controller dur-
ing the war. In his later days he was
the first chairman of the Australian
Federal Capital League, of the
R.S.S.I.L.A. and the Taxpayers’ Associa-
tion. A good citizen with an all-too-soft
heart, and many Diggers will remember
his kindness.
The paper trade lost an old hand
through the death in Sydney of W. H.
Wassail. For 17 years Wassail was presi-
dent of the Wholesale Paper Merchants’
Association, and he found time to give
some service to the S. Sydney Hospital,
the Deaf and Dumb and Blind Institu-
tion and many committees, working for
soldiers’ welfare. He had a term as
Mayor of Alexandria (Sydney), and he
helped to found the Citizens’ Reform
Association, of which he was a vice-
president.
Field-Marshal C. J. Deverell, chief
of the British Imperial General Staff, is
an example of rapid promotion. At 40
when the war broke out he was a major.
Within a year he was successively in
command of a regiment, a brigade and a
division. After the war he commanded
the Northern Division on the Rhine, and
held several jobs in India. He got his
field-marshal’s baton last year.
Henry Brackenbury, formerly council
chairman of the British Medical Asso-
ciation, now in Australia, is one of Eng-
land’s most versatile medicoes. He is an
LL.D. as well as an M.D., has worked
hard in municipal affairs, is in every
movement in London which aims to de-
velop research into mental medicine, and
is a world authority on national insur-
ance and health organisation, on which
he has been advising the Maoriland Gov-
ernment. He was knighted five years
ago.
Percy Sargood, who has been estab-
lished in Dunedin (M.L.) since 1891, and
who is now visiting his native Victoria,
is the second Sargood knight, the first
being his father, Frederick, a business-
like Londoner who hit Australian shores
in 1850 and became a Melbourne ware-
houseman. The elder Sargood was a
keen militiaman, three times Victorian
Minister for Defence and godfather to
the Sargood rifle-shooting shields. He
was among the first Victorian Senators,
but died before his term was up. Percy
Sargood has the same flair for public
affairs, but irrigation is his hobby, and
Otago owes some of its largest works
mainly to his efforts.
Dead in Adelaide, Noel A. Webb, a
partner with Paris Nesbit, K.C., before
the war. In 1916 Webb was appointed
a special magistrate at Port Pirie, trans-
ferred to the chairmanship of the S.A.
Industrial Court, and sat on the Federal
Arbitration Court Bench for some years.
Of his three sons, two choose to live in
the outback —one is a solicitor at Alice
Springs and another is with the Com-
monwealth Survey party in Central Aus-
tralia.
Melbourne loses a good man in James
Cornell, who, after a distinguished career
at “Scotch” and the University, moves
across to S.A. as Lecturer in French.
Adelaide ’Varsity has not yet run to a
professorship, of modern languages.
James Malcolm Newman was born
among the bananas at Caboolture (Q.) 57
years ago, and still runs black-pollcd
cattle there ; and he also owns Anthony’s
Lagoons station (N.T.). But Australia
and Malaya know him as a mining man.
Newman won a scholarship which took
him to Brisbane Grammar, and an exhibi-
tion helped him through Sydney ’Varsity.
Afterwards he went via Cockle Creek
with the Sulphide Corp. to Broken Hill,
thence to Peak Hill (W.A.) and Mt.
Morgan, and finally made his big punch
with the Prattens in Alluvial Tin. Now
he is interested in dredging shows of his
own in M.L. and elsewhere—Tablfeland
Tin, at Mt. Garnet (Q.), promises to be
A Prince of Tin.
the biggest tin-dredging co. in Australia.
Newman learnt his job so thoroughly that
S. H. Prior invited him to handle the
mining pages of The Bulletin while
Prior, then the “Wild Cat,” went off on
a health trip.


Did ijou know
THAT IN EVERY
CAP ST A N
CIGAR
there are
S
hi NOS OF FINE
VIRGINIA LEAF
capstan’s
own blend!
ANOTHER REASON
WHY IT’S ALWAYS
TIME FOR A
0
pjCCULL
will
EXTRA!
Capstan Oval
Heavy Weights
now Cork Tipped
and Plain,
and in packs
of 20—1/4.
10—8 d.
Also tins of
25 and 50.
6238-8-7


ABORIGINALITIES
BEENLEIGH RUM 'MINE TINK IT BEST'
“Old-timer”: Long Ned fell for a
girl in Euston-down-the-Murray, and
used to ride 20-odd miles twice a week
to sit with her —and her family—on the
verandah. Some bright spirits got up a
picnic race meeting, with ball at night,
and among the first in from the sur-
rounding stations was the long ’un, ox-
blood boots, brown suit, spotted tie,
rolled-gold tie-pin and all. But he spent
most of the day around the bar at the
races, for the charmer had trans-
ferred her fickle favors to a flash sur-
veyor. By nightfall Long Ned had slunk,
silent and preoccupied, down by the
river. Up at the hall they started the
first dance, and first up was Ned’s ex-
girl and the surveyor. She tossed her
head at sight of Ned’s glowering face at
the side door, and he made a low, sweep-
ing gesture with his right hand. Renun-
ciation? Read on. Suddenly there were
turmoil, squealing and loud thumps as
the dancers’ feet shot from beneath them,
and males and females skidded, crashed,
rolled and piled up on each other, a
hysterical mob. Outside Long Ned gazed
calmly at the scene, then walked back to
the pub, throwing away the cartridge
shells from which he had scattered the
No. 4 shot over the dance-floor.
“E.A.8.”: Barmera (S.A.) recently
held its first show. In spite of efforts
there was a dearth of exhibits in the
poultry section. The host of the local
hotel, expecting a large crowd, bought, at
2s. a head, a miscellaneous lot of chooks
for table supplies. Simply to swell the
number of poultry exhibits he was in-
duced to enter 10 of his purchases. He
was awarded two firsts, and was credited
with the champion light hen of the show
—a Minorca. You could have knocked
him down with one of the neck-feathers
out of this chook when a fancier offered
him a guinea for the fowl. Barmera,
incidentally, runs a community hotel, the
profits (last year £4200) to be spent on
beautifying the town, for scholarships
and for the establishment of a free lend-
ing library.
* * * *
“Tidapa”: Nature played a shabby
trick on the dormouse-opossum, for,
although the usual litter of this quaint
little marsupial is six, only four of the
youngsters stand any possible chance of
survival. When born the microscopic
babes make their way through the fur
towards the pouch of the mother. The
first four to arrive are set, each having a
teat to fasten to. The late arrivals find
that there are no more bowsers available
and quickly die.
* * * *
“F.Y.7”: Queensland makes tardy-
reparation for the butchery of hundreds
of thousands of koalas permitted some
10 years ago by the Labor Government
of the day as one way of solving the
unemployed problem. The Native Fauna
Protection Act covers the fur-bearers,
which are more plentiful in Queensland
than in N.S.W. and Victoria. Heavy penal-
ties are provided for taking the unique
beastie, and there are provisions which
ensure that the offer of a skin for sale
will spell trouble. Much will depend on
enforcement of the Act. Bearskins are
in such demand that even in close
seasons trappers collect them for surrep-
titious sale or to store up against the
declaration of an open season.
“Naturalist”: The ma koalas of my
acquaintance have never had to dump
their offspring in the crotch of one tree
and hike off to another when weaning
them (B. 29/9/’37). By the time young
Teddy is able to fend for himself mum
has no trouble at all in giving him the
slip. As a matter of fact, she and the
cub remain together, feeding and sleep-
ing separately in the one tree, until the
youngster is almost ready to take a mate.
Once out of the pouch, the young koala
is not long in trying a spell off his
“Be brave, darling. I’m going to show you your daddy."
mother’s back, and it is common to see
a well-grown but unweaned cub sleeping
on a branch apart from its mother.
Often when alarmed an unweaned cub
will return to its mother’s back, though
it may have to climb up or down some
distance to do so.
** V '
“Aves”: The Papuan parrot which
recently attacked a baby, biting the tops
off three fingers and the end from the
child’s nose, is typical of the dormant
savageness in all parrots and cockatoos.
Even in the case of quiet old Polly and
Joey who have been caged or kept as
pets for years, a chicken, mouse or any-
thing young, living and helpless arouses
their killing instinct. I’ve known one
Major Mitchell account for 14 chickens
in a day, either by tearing out their
throats or disembowelling them. An-
other plain white which I’d had for six
years came to a sticky end when he
tackled a helpless kelpie pup. Unfor-
tunately for cocky, the mother returned
and exacted vengeance.
* * * *
“Notaden”: The giant toads imported
from Honolulu to tackle the cane-beetle
in N.Q. sugarfields are self-effacing
workers except in one respect—they like
to sing on the job. Both in timbre and
volume their voices rank somewhere be-
tween a boiler-factory and a lonely bull-
calf. Australia’s North appreciates their
good work on the beetles, but considers
that something will have to be done
about their community singing in the
vicinity of houses. Sleep is impossible
whenever they render a really hearty
number. Now comes the good news,
backed by Honolulu experience, that
the species does not become properly
music-minded until it can immerse its
hind legs in water, a reaction apparently
similar to that of certain humans who
feel the urge to sing in the bath—or
after lubricating the tonsils with beer.
The remedy—for the toad music—is to
cover with wire-netting all pools and
water collections within earshot of
houses.
* * # *
“Sheafstack”: Re yoking horses to a
hopeless pull (B. 29/9/’37). A '‘pound
a pull” has too often figured as the price
of a horse. Yoked to a sapling, I once
saw an honest battler heave himself into
the collar 18 times. He was willing for
more, but with belated humanity the
owner realised the cruelty of the busi-
ness. “Nor is he for sale,’’ he added.
o. * *
“Puffinus”: Whether soaring aloft or
poised on some lookout-post, the grim
dignity of the wedge-tailed eagle doesn’t
suggest any capacity for play and aim-
less larking. But on a bright sunny day,
when hunting has been good and there
are no family duties or cares, a pair will
often sail aloft to a couple of thousand
feet or so, one carrying a stick or the
body of a bush rat or other small
animal. Arriving at sufficient air-room,
the carrier drops the plaything, and the
other player follows it down in a swoop-
ing power-dive, catches it in strong
talons, soars up and drops it, to be
caught and carried up again. Sometimes
the carrier will make off with the “ball,”
to be overtaken and jostled until it drops
it, both racing after to catch it in the
talons. Single birds occasionally make
a one-handed game of it, somersaulting
and looping like a stunt airman. It
makes an interesting sight with a pair
of good glasses.
* * *
“W.L.”: Only once have I seen a bull-
ant try to enter a beehive. It marched
boldly up to the front door ; the guardian
bees seemed to be astounded and buzzed
angrily above him. Then one flew at
him, picked him up, and both fell to the
ground six feet away, the bee dead from
the ant’s sting. Again the ant approached
and was carried farther away, at the ex-
pense of another bee’s life. On the third
try two bees attacked and bore the
aggressive one 20 feet away before they
died. After that the ant found business
elsewhere, looking pretty groggy.
* * * *
“Dungeness”: A back-country pioneer
who has never had a fair deal from the
public is the goat. Bush humor centres
largely round the billygoat, his odor, his
taste for drink, his predilection for strange
diets, ranging from police-warrants to
jam-tins. Poor peaceable Nanny is for-
gotten, although the very narrator who is
libelling her boy-friend may owe to her
his survival to beer-consuming age. Many
a stalwart Digger would never have seen
Gallipoli or France but for the milk
which some humble Nanny of the 1880 s
or 1890’s contributed to his feeding
bottle to assuage his howling and the
gnashing of his toothless gums u^^ er
hunger’s relentless urge. Did not a flock
of goats accompany the dauntless and
boneheaded Leichhardt, to supply milk
and kidflesh —all docile spinsters, until
someone pointed out to the innocent ex-
plorer the practical and irreplaceable uses
of the odorous and rebellious William?
Let public outcry arise for the erection
of a statue to the goat —preferably in
front of some Taxation Department.
*
Will Lawson: In his par. about whales
scraping themselves against coral (B.
29/9/’37) “James W.” speaks of a whale
“sounding” when it comes to the surface.
A whale sounds when it sinks, and
breaches when it rises, unless harpooned ;
then it “breaks water,” a different thing.
When whales “bottle” they rise perpen-
dicularly and often shoot into the air
clear of the water. In this attitude they
can see all round them, instead of only
sideways, as they do when swimming-on
the surface. Incidentally it is the hump-
back, the slowest-moving whale of all,
which gets barnacles on his hide ; the
rest move too fast and in deeper water.
* 4= * *
“Corvinus”: Victoria supplies a story
of a magpie which nested in a garden
hedge. An interfering human removed
maggie’s eggs and replaced them with
two bantam efforts. These hatched, and
when observers came on the scene the
cursing bird was trying to jamb a suc-
cession of grubs and beetles down the
necks of the reluctant chicks. These are
now being fed with grain in the usual
way, but maggie still mounts guard over
them. The story ends there, but I expect
to hear soon that maggie has started giv-
ing the chooks singing lessons and, if one
of them happens to be a rooster, I have
visions of a feathered Bing Crosby.
* & o
“Ring Four”: A harder manual job
than sawmilling (B. 6/10/’37), and one
that carries a fair number of sexa-
genarians, is mining. I know many old-
timers who, although they served their
time on the hammer and tap 40 years
ago, can still swing a Holman with the
best of them. Strangely, it seems to be
the fragile little-’uns who last longest on
the machines, while the bigger chaps who
tend to obesity finish up as timbermen.
Another point I’ve noticed is that the
tally of miner’s-complaint is always
greater among the heavier miners.
* * s . : - r
“M 8”: That’s a sweeping claim of
“Ursa’s” (B. 3/10/’37) that many varie-
ties of bears dwell in countries where
snow has never been seen or heard of.
Short of a few islands about the Equator
is there any such country on the globe?
Most countries noted for bear are plenti-
fully supplied with snow, though prob-
ably this isn’t the reason for their mark-
ing time. Probably, like the elephant,
their bodies are too heavy for their fore-
legs, and they ease the latter by con-
stantly shifting the weight from one to
the other.
THE WOOING OF HAZEL MACKAY.
She was ripe as a peach and as gay as a fairy,
Such a belle at the ball, such a gem in the
dairy;
And there wasn’t a Sunday that ever went by
But suitors came courting Miss Hazel Mackay.
But old Hamish Mackay he was shrewd and
was wary,
And he had sixty cows to be milked in his
dairy,
So he kept her for ever close under his eye.
For he couldn’t afford to lose Hazel Mackay.
She was fickle.and coy, she was sweet but con-
trary,
For she smiled at the dance and was cold in
the dairy,
Till young Patrick Mcßorie declared he would
try
For a definite pledge from Miss Hazel Mackay.
She was cool in her greeting, her manners were
airy,
Till he caught her and kissed her, right there in
the dairy.
And though she stood gasping, too shocked to
reply,
A wild Hieland oath burst from Hamish
Mackay.
With a sixteen-foot stockwhip in arms stout
and hairy,
How he rattled Mcßorie straight out of his
dairy,
Till he fled from the shed to his horse stand-
ing by
And rode off for his life from the wrath of
Mackay.
And for mile after mile, like the deer on the
prairie,
With the suitor just leading they rode from the
dairy.
Till Mcßorie decided the price was too high,
And gave up all int’rest in Hazel Mackay.
But, alas! for the plans of the cunning ano
wary,
They had left the young maiden alone in the
dairy,
Alone, unprotected, and that’s really why
She now is no longer Miss Hazel Mackay.
VICTORIA.
A. G. BURNET.


“Notaden”: Adam Lindsay Gordon is
generally credited with originating the libel
that Australia is a land of flowers with-
out scent and birds without song, but, in
reality, he cribbed it .from a description
of Japan by a bright young attache to
the first British Embassy there, in the
1850’s. It is, of course, a ridiculous yarn
as applied to either country, but Aus-
tralia certainly holds the record for
strange and startling bird-voices. Jacky’s
sardonic laughter is on the air through-
out the_world, but he is only one of
many. The appa ling screams and moans
of the powerful owl ending with a
bubbling, sobbing gurgle horribly sugges-
five of a cut throat, the deep drum-
drumming of a cock emu the sonorous
volume of a king pigeons Whoo-oo-
oom poo the hissing whistle and smack
° Iff wjupbird, the ventriloquial tonk-
tonk of the crested bellbird, a score
more of strange calls render Australia
unique among the bird concert halls of
le world.
*** * ,
o,r>of^ ter T : .Tell ‘Bray Rock’ (B.
0/9/ 37) that if he sails through acres
of tunny he’d better get to work catch-
ing some—they might find a market as
fertiliser, which is all that the Westralian
variety has so far proved fit for. It is
tough and tasteless. The Mediterranean
variety, dried for centuries by the
Italians, is a different fish entirely. As
for sardines—is there a genuine small
tinnable sardine anywhere around Aus-
tralia? Any quantity of smelt and silver-
sides—but they’re not sardines. Nor are
those “bonzer Canadian sardines.” A
species of small pilchard, it requires a
considerable stretch of imagination to
describe them as bonzer.
* * * *
“The 0.D.”: Don’t know about motor-
ists and hikers, but no dinkum swagman
or drover would be bothered with a
hammock (B. 22/9/’37), and the bloke
"Give it a slap on the back, Arthur, and it might cough it up."
who advocated it must have done his
camping in suburban backyards or
aboard ship. In most of the inland it is
hard to find a tree per mile, and harder
still to find another within hammock-
distance of it; in the coastal timber
belts it’s the other way about—there isn’t
room between the sticks ; on the Murray
or its tributaries no wise man sleeps
under the gums they’re too liable to
come down during the night. Finally,
your true outbacker never feels at home
off the ground—there’s a sense of friendly
security about snuggling down to the
u road earfb t u nt prill ij nrit
Droa ? earn that could no * be enjoyed
swaying like a cocoon in the breeze. •
* * '* *
“Greenhead”: Here’s one way to get
° f »“ e f>°£ ai, ' s ’ an f d it works e <Jtially
Wkh all breeds of the cusses. Get
some sand that is dry, fine and fluent as
quicksilver, and pour over the holes. Try-
ing to carry it away grain by grain will
+i i™ + / 6 ,
n break their hearts, and even when
they do open up the happy home again
those entrances will be inverted cones
similar to the ant-lions’ nests down which
ants do a slippery-slide. A little per-
sistency with this treatment and they will
soon beat it for other climes.
* * # *
“McAroni”: Other Australian trees
whic , h . can f 0?. ieaut y and shade knock
most importations into a cocked hat (B.
2 ?/ 9 /’ 3 J). ar ® tke teak and black-bean,
elr black-green, glossy foliage,
while greater in beauty, but of less value
, or s a< ? e ’ P ame ‘ tree ’ .Travelling
p cros ? { he McPherson Range in Decem-
£ er by the Kyogle-Brisbane line, the
fame-trees present an unforgettable sight,
| heir v ! vid scarle f blossoms showing up
mi l es agaipst the dark-green scrub,
They ape easy td grow > either see , ds
?’ se f d \ ngs ’. and ’ as trees g0 ’ don 1 take
ong to^ deve op ’... t
“Naturala”: Quaintest cobbers I know
are an outsize Kimberley cockatoo-
which may be 10 years old or even 20 -
and a f OU r-months kelpie pup. In his
innocence Pup shapes up {0 C ocky,
barkSj danceS) ch and rolls him
over . E time Cocky comes up to it,
wings half-open and bea k at the ready—
and tbat or g an bas a h ook and cutting-
edge that wou j d j ust abou t meet through
a man ’ s fi nger . But never a nip does
be g i ve? no ma tter bow ro ugh a handling
be rece j ves j n quieter moments it is his
pleasure to pick up Pup’s tail and mouth
h g en tly joint by joint. But let a cat
corne in dahti
? ,
“Sailor Once”: The complaint—prob-
ably unfounded—that matelots from
H.M.A.S. Moresby had desecrated a
Groote Eylandt native burial-ground re-
minds me that my own youthful acquisi-
five desires were once aroused by the
sight in South-west Bay, Malekula, of a
skull adorning the top of a pole, said
pole being stuck in the sea-bed about a
quarter of a mile offshore from a native
village. A secret one-man cutting-out
expedition after dark returned in tri-
umph with the coveted possession. But
the skipper, older and wiser, didn’t see
things my way, and rope-ended and keel-
hauled me verbally. “Two white men
had been murdered near the place only
a few months before ; the skull had been
placed in that position to frighten
enemies away ; interference with native
superstitions might lead to further slay-
ings of innocent whites.” Those were
only a few of the things he pointed out.
That night there was another stealthy
trip, and the skull was back at the old
address in the morning. I’ve never been
back there since to ascertain the natives’
reactions to what must have been to
them a very mysterious business.
“Scotia”: While waiting for some city
friends to regain breath and speech after
witnessing two rainbows arched between
them and Mt. Dandenong (Vic.), I spotted
old Charlie, who is one of the pioneers
of Montrose, coming our way. His lan-
guage to his horse-team broke the spell,
After introductions, a soulful flapper
gushed, “You lucky man, to dwell amid
“You come MY side this time!”
such changing and eternal beauty!” Old
Charlie spat, looked the angel straight
in the eye and said, “Beauty be damned.
I’ve lived here 37 years and there ain’t
no beauty since the grubs have up
the white messmates and spoilt the
timber racket.”
% •{• J I ;
“C.V.S.”: Tasmania’s King Billy pines,
to be seen at an elevation* of 3000 ft. on
Cradle Mountain, have been authorita-
tively estimated to be over 2000 years
old. Though slow-growing in their native
habitat, they have been known to grow
up to 2ft. per year when planted in light
soil at sea-level. They yield a feather-light
but remarkably strong timber. The pine
forests of the Speck often end in an abrupt
wall on the edge of a button-grassed
valley, but, up to a chain back from the
edge, there is no old growth, indicating
that the forests are encroaching, because
of the recent extinction of a restricting
factor, probably the burning-off of
button-grass by blacks,
* * ?? * *
Saltwater Fellah”: One of the most
exciting sports to watch is abos. har-
pooning crocodiles. Over a deep pool
early on a windless morning they keep
watch from near-by trees. In the shallows
floating water-lilies slowly disappear, and
a long line of bubbles in deep water
denotes the dog-chewer is sliding along
to his all-day camp. When he settles
down the tree-watchers signal. A dug-
out canoe stealthily comes out from over-
hanging tea-trees, one man paddles and
another stands balanced on the prow
with a long bamboo pole. Quietly this is
shoved down until the croc, is felt. The
pole is withdrawn, and a 3ft. steel spike,
to which a hair rope is attached, inserted.
Gently again the 20-footer is felt until
the butt-end of the tail is found. With
a vicious grunt the weapon is driven
through. The victim rolls over and thus
bends the steel rod, which can’t come
out. Then bedlam breaks loose, the yells
of the abos. mingling with the guttural
bellows of the saurian as he somersaults
to the surface amidst q muddy swirl of
weeds. His huge jaws gnash, and twin-
spurts of water blow from the nostrils.
Owing to the position of the spear he
is easily hauled backwards to the shore.
Then a scene of carnage as niggers, gins
and dogs rush in to kill with waddies,
boulders, spears and tomahawks, and the
quivering carcass is cut up.
“Ali”: The bullocky was searching in
the long grass —poking tussocks, moving
tufts with his foot backwards and for-
wards, doggedly combing the paddock. I
had had an hour’s rest watching him, so
I thought a bit of movement might set
me up for another spell. “Lost some-
thing?” I ventured. “Yairs,” he said,
“the pin outa me leader’s yoke. But
there’s no use lookin’ no more —the grass
is so long a feller might as well try to
find a haystack!”
* ❖ * *
“Stralia”: If “Scotia” (B. 22/9/’37)
really does believe that animals are better
off in captivity, I’d like to see him cooped
up in a cell of similar proportions. No
doubt he’d not object, for, as he says of
captive animals, he’d live longer. There
would be no possibility of his accidental
death while swimming or indulging in
any othpr of his pleasures. In addition,
like the birds that should —accord-
ing to him —be confined to small cages
as a safeguard against breaking their
wings, he would be unable to do any-
thing that might lead to his injuring him-
self. Probably, too, he would adopt the
plan of the thwarted polar bear that
paces up and down on imaginary snow
and go through the motions of swigging
drinks while groping with his left foot
for the brass-rail.
DERRYWAYS.
Do you remember how the dawn broke red
Behind the mist-cloaked hills of Derryways,
And how the sun rose high, and all the fields
Bathed in the golden splendor of his rays?
Do you remember how we galloped down
The hillside, through the scrubland, o’er the
vales,
Breathing in deep the crystal morning air,
And how you made that chestnut clear the
rails?
Do you remember how, at hush of noon,
We lazed away beneath the willows’ shade,
And heard, far off, the crack of teamsters’
whips,
And watched the blue smoke slowly curl and
fade?
Do you recall the winding bushland track
Where in the cool and purple dusk we
strolled,
Talking of life, and love, and pleasant things?
Do you remember?—Dash! My pipe’s gone
cold!
VICTORIA.
GARRY LYLE.


ADAMS* (TATTERSALL’S) HOTEL
259 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 484 GEORGE STREET.
Rooms, 6/- and 8/- per day; Breakfast, Table d’Hote or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE- PUBLIC DINING ROOMS.
Bunch from 12 noon (Sunday, 12.45 p.m.), Din ner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday, 5.45 p.m.).
Tables or Seats may be reserved by ’Phone, M 4601.
THE ELECTROLYTIC REFINING AND SMELTING CO.
OF AUSTRALIA, LTD.
Licensed Gold Buyers under Gold Bounty Act 1030-51.
PURCHASERS AND REFINERS of Gold, Gold Ores, Gold Concentrates, Silver, Silver Ores.
Silver Concentrates, Gold and Silver Bullion, Blister Copper, Copper Ores, Copper Precipitates.
Scrap Copper, Cyanide Slags, and of all materials containing Gold, Silver or Copper.
PRODUCERS qOF gilver and Copper, “ESA” brand of Copper Sulphate (Bluestone).
BEARING AND ANTIFRICTION METALS.—Graphine, Plastic, Babbit and other
Bearing and Antifriction Metals to Standard Formulae or Buyers own specifications.
PRINTERS’ METALS. —Linotype, Stereotype, Monotype and other Printers Metals
to Standard Formulae or Buyers’ own specifications.
Purchase terms and selling prices will be quoted upon application to any of the Company s
offices, viz.:—
Smelting Works and Refineries: PORT KEMBLA, N.S.W.
_ . 25 O’fnnnell Street. Melbourne Office: 360 Collins Street.
y ‘ ney Telegraphic Address: “Eratype,” Sydney, Melbourne or Port Kembla.
GOLDMINERS, send your gold by post (insured) to either our ¥ O rui on prices
Office. The Company will effect prompt realisation on your at*the refinery. Port Kembla.
ulus exchange, and will settle in full within seven days of receipt at the rennery,
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors— James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. i Hart, Esq.; M. J. Byan, Esq.,
P. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —D. S. FORBES. , . , qs
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney and »»
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also' re^J lf.,", th i s
through the leading Banking- Institutions covering Australasia and the^oid.
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general-banking bu^ness^
The Care of Your Estate.
The care of an Estate demands not only integrity and knowledge but
organised facilities to. ensure daily attention to all matters
interests Such organised attention by specially trained stall, v
in every phase of Estate and Trust is provided by
Perpetual Trustee Company (Limited),
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Board of Directors-. ~
T H Kelly (Chairman). Walter T. Brunton, Herbert R. Lysaght, 0.8. K.,
Lieut -Colonel the Hon. T. A. J. Playfair. M.L.C., E. R. Knox,
h K de L. Cudmore, H. V. Douglass (Managing Director).
fxfcutor trustee, administrator, agent, etc.
’ P. Cureton,
Manager.
Call or write for free
Explanatory Booklet.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Broken Hill South, Ltd.
June, Profit. Dividends. Reserves.
£ £ £
1926 .. 512,249 65 p.c. = 520,000 1,270,183
1927 .. 355,207 45 „ „ 360,000 1,265,390
1928 .. 233,855 22.5,, „ 180,000 1,319,245
1929 .. 388,997 22.5„ „ 180,000 1,528,242
1930 .. 316,936 32.5„ „ 260,000 1,585,178
1931 .. 80,421 7.5„ „ 60,000 1,605,599
1932 . . 152,803 10 „ ~ 80,000 1,678,402
1933 . . 276,199 15 „ „ 120,000 1,834.601
1934 . . 260,884 25 „ „ 200,000 1,895,485
1935 . . 355,302 30 „ „ 240,000 2,010,787
1936 . . 519,903 62.5„ „ 500,000 2,030.690
1937 . . 803,278 70 „ „ 560,000 2,273,968
The sharp spring of £283,375 in last
year’s record profit was due almost en-
tirely to the rise in the price of lead and
zinc. Here are sterling averages on the
London Metal Exchange:
. Silver
Average—• Lead. (Fine). Zinc.
12 months, June, 1925.. £35/4/ £34/9/1
5 years, June, 1929 ... £2O/8/- 2/6.9 £3O/7/1
5 years, June, 1934 . .£l4/6/ 1/7.3 £l5/11/-
12 months, June, 1935.. £ll/6/ 2/3.8 £l2/16/7
12 months, June, 1936.. £l6/4/5 2/2.4 £l5/3/11
12 months, June, 1937. . £23/2/8 1/9.9 £2O/2/1
Since early in 1932 £SIOO has been
worth £AI2S. So, in Australian cur-
rency, lead averaged £2B 18s. 4d. (up £8
12s. lOd.) and zinc £25 2s. 7d. (up £6 2s.
9a.) last year. Yet the co. has been able to
show over quarter of a million more profit
than it did in 1925, when lead averaged
£35 4s. and zinc £34 9s. Id. Thanks
are due mainly to the management and
technical staff, who have substantially
quickened and cheapened production and
recoveries by installation of new plant,
including a jointly-owned central power
station, and by the sinking and equipment
of a new shaft, etc. The work, which
began in 1928 and was completed early in
1935, cost about £750,000, and was paid
for out of surplus earnings, current and
accumulated.
Last year’s sales of lead exceeded pro-
duction by 7596 tons, reducing stocks to
11,221 tons when the books closed. Sale
of these stocks, which have been taken
into account at £AI2 10s. per ton, has
proved a nice sweetener for earnings of
recent years. During the last term,
369,790 tons (down 16,310 tons) of
crudes was mined and treated at an
average cost of 31s. 2.9 d. (up 4s. 7.9 d.)
per ton. Still, after paying administrative
exes. (£17,726), setting hside £153,000 (up
£41,000) for taxation, £61,000 (up
£35,000) for royalty and £33,000 (same
as in previous term) for depreciation, the
board figured net profit from mining
£277,056 better than the previous year’s:
Net profit—- 1935. 1936. 1937.
Mining .. .. £255,869 £387,747 £664,803
Investments .. .. 86,641 98,450 103,513
£342,510 £486,197 £768,316
Investments turned in an extra £5063 net.
Including £619,475 of deposits and
£131,490 (book value) of Australian Con-
sols, they total £1,718,755, up £276,703.
The difference between the profit claimed
(£768,316, up £282,119) and that shown
in the introductory table (£803,278, up
£283,375) is accounted for by an unex-
plained addition of £1964 to general re-
serve and the allowance for depreciation.
Including these additions, the profit was
100.4 p.c. on the £BOO,OOO of share capi-
tal as against 64.9 p.c. for the previous
term. Over the same period the profit
claimed was 96 p.c. and 60.7 p.c. on
capital respectively. The div. was lifted
from 62.5 p.c. to 70 p.c., payment for
the final quarter being at the rate of
100 p.c. p.a., which rate has been main-
tained for the first quarter of the current
term.
There was no change worth mention-
ing in the assay value of the ore, 13.8
p.c. lead, 5.10 z. silver and 11.1 p.c. zinc,
but 16,310 fewer tons of crudes was
raised:
1025. 1936. 1937.
Crudes raised. . 257,879 tons 386,100 tons 369,790 tons
Extraction .. 275. 6.5 d. 19s. 1.3 d. 225. 1.4 d.
Development .. 2s. 5.0 d. Is. 11. Id. 2s. 7.3 d.
Treatment . . 13s. 11.5 d. 6s. 6.6 d. 6s. 6.2 d.
Cost per ton 435. 11.Od. 265. 7.0 d. 31s. 2.9 d.
The rise of 4s. 7.9 d. per ton in aggregate
costs was due mainly to a bigger wage
bill, owing to payment of a lead bonus,
which averaged 28s. a week as against
9s. for the previous term. The average
number of men employed during the
year was 923. The smaller tonnage
handled had a comparatively slight
effect. Of the 369,790 tons of ore raised,
84.7 p.c. came from between the 825 ft.
and 1270 ft. levels. The shaft is down a
few feet below the 1630 ft. level.
The metal content of the lead and zinc
concentrates and percentage of recovery
compare as follows:
Lead. Silver. Zinc,
-.a,,,- ( 31,0.63 tons. 1,015,69402. 34,176 tons.
I 87.1 p.c. 78.5 p.c. 75.4 p.c.
( 51,568 tons. 2,221,2230 z. 39,286 tons.
1933 1 95.1 p.c. 89.7 p.c. 86.1 p.c.
( 52,048 tons. 2,101,2650 z. 37,948 tons.
1934 | 95.6 p.c. 9L4 p.c. 86.5 p.c.
( 53,465 tons. 2,297,9690 z. 41,840 tons.
193 a ( 95.4 p.c. 90.6 p.c. 87.7 p.c.
■ ( 50,296 tons. 1,899,3320 z. 37,524 tons.
1930 1 94.9 p.c. 89.2 p.c. 86.5 p.c.
(48,678 tons. 1,693,1180 z. 35,587 tons.
190 ' t 95.3 p.c. 89.2 p.c. 86.6 p.c.
The contraction in the quantity of lead,
zinc and silver obtained in 1937 was
due to the drop in the tonnage of crudes
treated. A trifle more of the lead in the
lead concentrates was recovered.
Ore reserves are put at 3,000,000 tons
(down 250,000 tons), a shade over eight
years’ supply at last year’s rate of extrac-
tion. But that does not include ore
below the 1480 ft. level, or any ore indi-
cated solely by diamond drilling.
The market for the scrip has followed
the market for metals. For the three
months to the end of September lead
averaged £22 10s. 2d. in London. Owing
to uncertainty concerning the future
strength of demand, especially in the
American market, manufacturers have
lately been inclined to use up some of
their existing stocks of metal. Thus sup-
port on the buying side of the market
eased, a bear position was created, and
the London price of lead fell to £l7 16s.
lOd. on Oct. 6 ; six days later it was
£lB 3s. Id. South’s 55.-paid shares, which
touched 60s. 3d. during March, when lead
reached over £36 (stg.), were at 425. last
week-end, after sales as low as 38s.
during the week. The return at 425.
would be 7.9 p.c. on the basis of a 60 p.c.
div., which would call for £480,000, or
£288,000-odd less than the profit claimed
last year. On the basis of last year’s
production, each rise or fall of £1 in
the price of lead would affect the co.’s
gross earnings by approx. £47,000 p.a.
Drug Houses of Australia
Towards
Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £
1931.. 51,811 2 p.c. = 46,730 5081 3814
Written off, £1065 4879
1932.. 60,069 24 p.c. = 63,071 7881
Unexplained reductions, £1129 .. 9010
1933.. 38,133 14 p.c. = 30,499 7634 1376
Reserves.
1934.. 88,112 34 p.c. = 85,397 2715 1339
1935.. 123,581 5 „ ~ 121,996 1585 2924
Tax refund, £2332 .. .. .. 6256
1936.. 147,108 6 p.c. = 146,394 714 5970
Unexplained addition, £2187 .. 8157
1937.. 158,878 64 p.c. = 158,594 284 8441
This holding co. owns the shares, or
all but a fraction of them, in half a
dozen of the leading drug houses in the
Commonwealth, and little else. It has
£2,439,912 of capital to feed. At June
30 shareholdings figured at £2,441,287,
or £483,000-odd more than their net
tangible book value, the operating cos.
in the group being:
A. M. Bickford and Sons (Adelaide and
Brisbane); Elliotts and Australian Drug
(Sydney); Felton, Grimwade and Duerdins
(Melbourne); Felton, Grimwade Dental Co.
(Melbourne); Felton, Grimwade and Bick-
ford (Perth); Taylors, Elliotts and Aus-
tralian Drug (Brisbane, Rockhampton and
Townsville); Drug Houses of Australia Ex-
port, Ltd. (London).
They all merged their interests towards
the end of 1929, the idea being to miti-
gate the effects of aggressive competi-
tion and price-cutting, reduce overhead
and gain advantages on both the buying
and selling sides of the business. But
slump upset original calculations, and for
a while some of the properties proved
a drag. Still, earnings have stepped
along, keeping pace with the improve-
ment in conditions generally, the div.
advancing from If p.c. for 1933 to 6
p.c. three years later, and to 6f p.c. for
the last term, when the final was at the
rate of 7 p.c. p.a.
A more reliable idea of the earning
capacity of the organisation is provided
in the next table, which shows the aggre-
gate net profits, etc., of the operating
cos.:
,—Dividends—
Net Drug To Re- Re-
Profit. Pref. Houses. serves, serves.*
£. £ £ 4 £ £
1931.. 47,718 6000 56,709 , 189,954
Unexplained reduction, £15,707 .. 174,247
1932.. 67,568 6000 63,921 171,894
Unexplained addition, £B3O .. .. 172,724
1933.. 61,613 6000 53,971 1,642 174,366
Unexplained reduction, £9515.. .. 164,851
1934.. 118,224 6000 95,414 16,810 181,661
1935.. 155,360 6000 130,388 18,972 200,633
Unexplained addition res., £5635 .. 206,268
1936.. 184,060 6000 154,140 1 iq ftn .
Inter-co. divs., £4320 ( 19 ’ 00(> ZZj,BbB
Unexplained reduction, res., £6,163.. 219,705
Unexplained reduc. goodwill, £BOO .. 220,505
1937.. 196,198 6000 165,916 1 9 0 fi14 7
Inter-co. dive., £8640 1 15,642 2db,44t
*After deducting goodwill, £146,j80.
During the last term, sales con-
tinued to increase ; and, since the cos.
make a good deal of their own require-
ments in their own factories and labora-
tories, they gather a manufacturing as
well as a distributing profit. Most of
the letting space has been taken, and
the special Federal tax on income from
property was abolished early in the
term. After allowing £39,345 (down
£2613) for taxation, the net result was
£12,138 better at £196,198, or 10.9 p.c.
on aggregate capital of £1,794,016, of
which £75,000, carrying a cumulative 8
p.c., is not owned by the holding co.
Deducting this preference charge, inter-
co. divs. and the holding co.’s own exes,
(together £14,640), the £174,520 of the
year’s profit that remained for the hold-
ing co. was equal to 7.1 p.c. on its
£2,439,912 of capital as against 6.8 p.c.
for the previous term.
Here are aggregate balance-sheet
figures of the subsidiaries:
Operating Cos.’ Aggregate Figvres.
1931. 1935. 1936. 1937.
Paid £ £ £ £
capitalt.. 1,626,297 1,794,016 1,794,016 1,794,016
Overdrafts 451,452 84,863 94,821 113,162
Deposits .. 109,774 201,713 183,763 185,397
Sundry
creditors. 454,681 209,991* 241,607* 271,661*
F re'ehold,
leasehold,
plant .. 706,887 738,204 726,755 730,844
Investments 260,605 264,811 282,758 277,763
Government
securities,
etc. . . 12,050 2,400 2,400 2,400
Stock . . 836,094 689,220 762;017 820,997
Debtors .. 1,011,015 875,916 860,423 864,789
Cash .. 6,258 1,712 1,933 3,082
* Excluding inter-company debts,
t Includes £75,000 not owned by holding eo.
Chief movement last year was a growth
of £58,980 in stocks, to finance which
£18,341 was added to the overdraft and
£30,054 to the amount coming to sundry
creditors. The most vulnerable points
in the co.’s armor are the two bulky
items, stocks and debtors’ balances. The
year’s improvement in the more or less
liquid surplus (£1,121,048) was £15,466.
A year ago the market priced the hold-
ing co.’s pound ords. at 30s. 6d. Then,
following rumors that Boots Pure Drug
Co. (the English concern which runs over
1200 chemists’ shops in Britain) was
about to set up here, the figure fell
sharply to 255. 6d. in December. It
rose to 295. 6d. in February, since when
it has fluctuated with an easing tendency
in accord with the market generally. At
the current figure of 265. 3d. the return
is 4.9 p.c. on a 6| p.c. div. basis, or 5.3
p.c. on a 7 p.c. distribution. The net
tangible cover is approximately 16s. per
share.
Howards, Ltd. (Brisbane)
, Dividends ■,
Net Pref. To Re- Re-
June, Profit. 6 p.c. Ordinary. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1927.. 53,152 26 15 p.c. = 23,472 29,654 147,506
1928.. 37,952 26 15 „ 23,472 14,454 161,960
1929.. 26,211 26 124,, >» 19,560 6,625 168,585
1930.. 20,123 26 10" „ ~ 15,647 4,450 173,035
1931.. 16,012 26 10 „ „ 15,647 339 173,374
Tax reserve drawn on, £2729.. .. 170,645
1932.. 9,737 26 8 p.c. = 12,518 167,838
Tax reserve drawn on, £1666 .. 166,172
1933.. 6,799 13 8 p.c. = 6,259 527 166,699
Tax reserve drawn on, £1249 . . . . 165,450
1934.. 10,123 8 p.c. = 6,259 3,864 169,314
Reserves capitalised, £26,050.. .. 143,234
Tax reserve drawn on, £1663 • • 141,571
1935. . 13,789 8 p.c. = 8,345 5,444 147,015
Tax reserve drawn on, £2490 . .. 144,525
1936.. 18,333 S p.c. = 8,345 9,988 154,513
Loss liquidation subsidiaries, £1993.. 152,520
Tax reserve drawn on, £2918 . . 149,602
1937.. 21,635 10 p.c. = 10,432 11,203 160,805
Formed in the infancy of the motor
business in Australia, this co. has given
a splendid account of itself from the
start—it was the Chevrolet agency, ac-
quired in 1918, that enabled it to put on
most fat. In 1926, to avoid restriction
of agency rights, the business was split
into six subsidiaries, all of which have
since put up the shutters, owing to trade
and other difficulties. Only visible loss
to the parent was £1993 in connection
with the last two, wound up during the
last term. After General Motors’ agency
was relinquished in 1930, distributing
rights, covering Queensland and Northern
Rivers (N.S.W.), for Morris cars and
trucks were acquired. Later Continental
(discontinued in 1936) and Nash cars,
Philco and Hollingsworth radios and
Hallstrom and ElectrlCE refrigerators
were added to the list of agencies.
For many years the board put aside
more than was distributed. When hard
times arrived, reducing trading profits to
negligible proportions, the div. never fell
below 8 p.c., thanks to a fine wad of in-
vestments outside the business, which
also permitted return of the handful of
pref. capital and 10s. per ord. share in
1933. During the decade to the close
of accounts in 1925, £60,000 was trans-
ferred from reserves to the share-regis-
ter ; next and only subsequent gift-giving
(one for three) was in 1934.
With the help of general economic
improvement, a preferential tariff on
British cars and restriction of imports
of chassis from America, the number
of new registrations effected by Howards
further advanced during the last term:
Calendar Morris Morris Nash Continental
Year, Cars. Trucks. Cars. Cars. Total.
1933.. 188 77 8 273
1934.. 205 157 36 19 417
1935.. 242 118 69 2 431
1936.. 290 166 29 4 489
1937*. 173 78 9 260
* Six months.
Other agencies turned in a bit more,
too, and the year’s gross earnings rose
by £6945 to £99,523. Exes. (£77,887)
ran away with an extra £3642, leaving
the net balance £3302 better at 20.7 p.c.
on capital. That was before sending
£4OOO to tax reserve. A couple of points
were added to the div., making it 10 p.c.
At £160,805, reserves are now piled
£56,485 in excess of capital.
Immediate prospects seem bright
enough. Seasonal conditions in the
sugar and pastoral industries are satis-
factory, activity in the motor trade con-
tinues, and the board reports expand-
ing support for its radio and refrigera-
tion lines, though competition in the
last-named fields threatens to get more
of an edge on it. Buyers offer 345. for
the £1 shares, but sellers remain in their
shell. The return at 345. would be 5.8
p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis. The book
value of net tangibles is 50s. 9d. per share.
The co. is well equipped to extend its
connections:
1932. 1935. 1936. 1937.
Paid capital. . £156,905 £104,320 £104,320 £104,320
Sundry creditors 2,557 36,538 25,818 26,508
Freehold .. 66,516 66,516 66,516 66,616
Plant, etc. .. 19'2 634 709 1,096
Stocks.. .. 61.178 64,845 54,290
Book debts, in- , ~d , n
vestments, etc. 202,236 163,960 149,779 156,809
Shares in sub-
sidiaries .. 54,517 3,390 3,140
oihfetc. :: 16.383 540 8,006 23,203
Last year’s reduction of £10,555 in
(Continued on page 24.)


mm*
&
// . /?
■
1
S 7.
*T~T
777
r
,y'—
V*
M
rr
-f
•SaSaSSr/
777
jpr
_/
■
m
rrrri
y~-
77^
jE
;■. -
444 i
tiff
L^J
/ / /,/
/ V
tffhL
f~r<
K3*»
..
■ m
Wynyard Court (Margaret Street, next
to Kembla Buildings) will give Sydney
what it badly needs—modern flats right
in the centre of the city, yet away from
noise and congestion.
Write for full Prospectus to any address
below.
A Sound Investment in City Real Estate
(ABRIDGED PROSPECTUS)
WYNYARD
PROPERTIES
LIMITED
(A Company registered under the “Companies Act 1899 ” and its amendments — N. S. Wales.)
NOMINAL CAPITAL - - - - £lOO,OOO
divided into 100,000 Shares of £1 each, of which
30,000 Ordinary Shares of £1 each have been applied for and allotted
* for cash consideration.
40,000 Ordinary Shares of £1 each will be held in reserve for future
f issue, if required, at the discretion of the Directors.
30,000 Ordinary Shares of £1 each are now offered for public subscrip-
tion, payable 7/6 per share on application, 7/6 per share on
allotment, and the balance in a call of 5/- per share three months
after allotment.
DIRECTORS:
William John Curtis, Esq., K.C.,
Barrister-at-Law,
167 Phillip Street, Sydney.
William Whitfield, Esq.,
Retired Master Builder,
Greenacre Road, Hurstville, Sydney.
Ernest Abraham Goldsmid, Esq.,
Company Director,
17 Martin Place, Sydney.
Paul Haege, Esq.,
Company Director,
Hermann Haege, Limited,
, 379 Kent Street, Sydney.
BANKERS:
Commercial Bank of Aust., Lid.,
N.S.W. Head Office,
273 George Street, Sydney.
SOLICITOR:
Harold Joseph Price,
Trust Building,
155 King Street, Sydney.
ARCHITECTS: '
D. Forsyth Evans and Associates,
Kembla Building,
58 Margaret Street, Sydney.
AUDITOR:
Neville Murray McClung,
Chartered Accountant (Aust.),
Kembla Building,
58 Margaret Street, Sydney.
CONSULTING ENGINEERS:
Michell and Hallett,
62 Margaret Street, Sydney.
SECRETARY AND
REGISTERED OFFICE:
Fredk. T. Smythe, F.T.C.A.,
Consulting Accountant,
Union House,
247 George Street, Sydney.
OBJECTS OF THE COMPANY.
The objects of the Company are fully set out in its Memorandum of Association.
In particular, the Company, having already purchased the land upon which the
premises known as 54-56 Margaret Street, Sydney, are erected, proposes to demolish the
existing improvements and to erect on the land modern Residential Premises comprising
143 Self-contained Bachelor Flats, Shops and Qrill Room with all necessary modern
appurtenances.
ESTIMATE OF CAPITAL EXPENDITURE.
Based on the Architect’s estimate of the building, together with the cost of the land
and other necessary outlay, it is estimated that the total capital requirements will
aggregate £120,000, as follows:
Land and Buildings £99 900
Furnishings and Equipment 9,000
General Establishment Cost's, Provision for Working
Costs, Contingencies, Mortgage Costs, Stamp
Duties, other Legal Cost's, Brokerage and
Advertising 11,100
£120,000
The capital requirements as above will be provided for by 30,000 shares of £1 each
already allotted, together with 30,000 shares of £1 each now offered for public
subscription, and the balance of £60,000 by way of a loan on first mortgage.
PROPERTY VALUATION.
Richardson & Wrench, Ltd., Real Estate Valuers, of 92 Pitt Street, Sydney, under
date of Bth September, 193 7, value the proposed property as under:
We estimate the value of the property when completed in accordance
with the Plans and Specifications submitted to us, excluding furnishings
and appurtenances, at £107,000 (one hundred and seven thousand
pounds).”
ESTIMATED ANNUAL PROFITS UNDER COMPANY'S MANAGEMENT.
The estimated income and expenditure obtainable by the Company from direct management are fully detailed
in the Prospectus, and disclose a net profit, after providing for mortgage sinking fund and reserve for taxation,
equivalent to on invested capital.
ADDITIONAL STATUTORY REQUIREMENTS OF THE NEW SOUTH WALES “COMPANIES ACT
1936.”
/1 \ All the requirements of Section 137 of the
“Companies Act 1936“ (N.S.W.) have not
been complied with in this advertisement.
*(2) Copies of the full Prospectus and forms of
apipilication for shares may be obtained at
the Registered Office of Wynyard Properties.
Ltd., Union House, 247 George Street, Sydney,
or the offices of Churchills, Limited, at 67
Queen Street, Melbourne; Brookman Building,
Grenfell Street, Adelaide, and Commerce
House, Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Applications for shares will be received only
on one of the forms of application referred
to and endorsed upon a printed copy of the
Prospectus.
(4) This advertisement is an epitome of the
Prospectus, copies of which have been filed
with the Registrar General for New South
Wales, dated at Sydney, 30th September,
1937, the Registrar for South Australia and
the Registrar for Queensland.
(5)
The Company has already proceeded to allot-
ment upon 30,000 shares allotted and fully
paid for cash.
This advertisement is inserted by
Wynyard Properties, Limited, from
whom copies of the Prospectus may he
obtained upon application or from
Churchills, Ltd., Sydney, Melbourne,
Adelaide and Brisbane.


MINING SPECULATORS,
WATCH
THIS SPACE IN THE NEXT ISSUE FOR
The Abridged Prospectus of
METAL OPTIONS
BROKEN HILL, LTD.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1028 Victoria.
COLLINS COURT, LITTLE COLLINS ST.,
MELBOURNE.
Ground-floor speculators, write for a prospectus
at once.
rs
• ■ 'M
iflM
r<
Sittv,
ggist
Incorporated in England by
Royal Charter in 1835.
$3
/835
The liability of the members
is limited.
Paid-up Capital ..
Reserve Fund (used
in business of the
Bank)
Currency Reserve
(used in business
of the Bank) ..
Reserve Liability
of Propriet or s
under the Charter
£4,500,000
2,475,000
2,000,000
4,500,000
£13,475,000
Main entrance to Melbourne Branch:
Corner Collins and Queen Streets.
Over the threshold...
WHEN YOU ENTER any of the numerous Branches of the Bank of
Australasia throughout Australia and New Zealand, or its offices in
London, a world-wide service is placed at your disposal.
OVER 100 YEARS of sound and progressive Banking Policy have
equipped this Bank to handle every phase of modern banking business.
THE
BANK of AUSTRALASIA
The oldest Bank now trading in Australia as originally constituted.
stocks and net growth of £7OBO in
debtors and investments are encourag-
ing movements. Surplus earnings went
mainly into cash, up £15,197. At
£207,844 (up £11,032), the more or less
liquid surplus was little under £2 per
share.
Bennett and Fisher, Ltd. (Adelaide)
t Dividends
Prefs. To Re- Re-
June, Profit 7* p.c. Ordinaries, serves, serves.
1927.. 48,803 20,256 8 p.c.=24,000 4,547 8,203
1928.. 54,833 22,500 7 ~,,21,000 11,333 19,590
1929.. 47,496 22,500 ei,, „i 9,600 5,490 25,092
1930.. 21,45022,500 Nil 24,042
1931. . 321 Nil Nil 321 24,363
1932.. 1,692 Nil Nil 1,692 26,055
4 p.c.
1933.. 9,833 20,594* Nil 15,2 94
1934.. 12,807 25,594* Nil 2,507
Deficit,
1935.. 13,057 25,594* Nil 10,030
1936.. 19,863 25,594* Nil - 15,761
1937.. 23,607 13,500 i£ p.c.= 3,750 6,357 9,404
4 p.c. from i/i2/’32 plus £13,594 towards arrears.
There is £600,000 of capital to feed,
one half prefs. and the other half ords.
Tb'e prefs.—-150,000 As and a like numbei
oi Bs used to carry a fixed cumulative
74 p.c., but owing to the change in out-
look shareholders agreed, at the begin-
ning of December, 1932, to lower the
rate to 4 p.c., with the right to an extra
1 p.c. in any year when the ords. receive
un to 5 n c and the further riaht to
up 10 j p.c., anu me iuiuiei ugui 10
advance with the ords. beyond 5 p.c. to
74 p.c. and to share in future bonus
issues, if any. Arrears of pref. divs.
(£54,375) have been since wiped out by
four annual payments of £13,594 each
from reserves. The last of these pay-
ments was made in 1936, leaving the road
clear for both ords. and prefs. to benefit
from any further improvement in earn-
ings.
During the last term, the co. registered
a substantial increase in turnover, thanks
mainly to the rise in the price of wool
and to sale of more livestock at better
figures. Although the clip for South Aus.
(257,299 bales) was 5981 bales lighter,
the cheque (£4,603,315) was £452,083
heavier, the average per bale being £l7 17s.
lOd. (up £2 2s. 6d.). The co., however,
put slightly more wool under the hammer
(approximately 36,000 bales), sold an
extra 123,000 sheep and lambs (801,000),
and “considerably” more cattle (40,000).
After providing whatever was con-
sidered necessary for bad and doubtful
debts and other contingencies, gross earn-
ings (£95,954) were up £12,018. Exes.
(£72,347, including £5678 for deprecia-
tion) took £8274 of the increase, leaving
the net result £3744 better at £23,607.
This was sufficient to give the prefs. 5 p.c.
and show 2.8 p.c. on ord. capital. Actu-
ally the prefs. got a div. at the rate of
4 p.c. p.a. for the first half, and at the
rate of 5 p.c. p.a. for the second half,
when, after an eight years’ wait, the ords.
got back into the picture with a distribu-
tion at the rate of 2| p.c. p.a. The rate
for the year was therefore 4j p.c. to the
prefs. and 1} p.c. to the ords. The £6357
that remained reduced the amount of
capital unrepresented by tangibles in the
books to £9404 —goodwill (£27,000) is not
treated as an asset herein.
Continued expansion of the business is
reflected in a growth of £50,908 in ad-
vances, etc.: —■'
1928. 1935. 1936. 1937.
Paid capital. . £600,000 £600,000 £600,000 £600,000
Sundry creditors 380,068 234,507 232,428 271,654
Freeholds, plant,
stock, etd... 114,113 109,054 106,343 108,503
Advances & bills 904,429 705,764 699,289 750,197
Investments and
cash .. 18,373 20,458 . 21,036 19,701
To meet the outlay £39,226 was added
to the debt, raising it to £271,654. Ad-
vances, investments and cash totalled
£769,898, leaving a more or less liquid
surplus of £498,244, up £10,347 over the
twelvemonth.
As for the current term, the seasonal
outlook has rarely been better, and
prices for wool, wheat and livestock are
at very satisfactory levels. The chances
of the co. making a better showing at
next balance are therefore bright. It is
difficult to say when the pref. participat-
ing rights are likely to make the div.
worth anything more than 5 p.c. An
all-round 6 p.c. would call for £36,000, or
£12,393 more profit than was claimed
last term. No harm will be done if divs.
are kept down and the co.’s shock-
absorbers strengthened.
The market sums up the risks by pric-
ing the A prefs. at 17s. lid. and the Bs
at 14s. lid. At these figures the return is
5.6 p.c. and 6.6 p.c. respectively on a
5 p.c. div. basis. The ords. at 11s. yield
4.5 p.c. on the basis of a 2\ p.c. dis-
tribution. The net tangible cover is £3
18s. 9d. As, £2 18s. 9d. Bs and 19s. 4d.
ords.
Roan Antelope, the big London-con-
trolled Rhodesian copper producer, made
a record profit of £1,790,000 (subject to
taxation) for the year to June 30 last,
thanks to the rise in the price of the
metal and de-restricted production. For
the previous year the profit was put at
£514,487, after £103,500 had been re-
served for taxation. Issued capital is
£1,662,745 in ss. shares, which include
420,000 sold in February for 7 £1,554,000
(745. each net) to redeem debenture stock.
The year’s divs. totalled 80 p.c. as against
30 p.c. and 20 p.c. for the two preceding
terms. In addition shareholders have
received a two-for-one bonus scrip issue,
which called for £3,327,400. The co.
is producing at an all-in cost of around
£23 per ton. At the end of June, 1936,
ore reserves were conservatively esti-
mated at over 95,000,000 tons, averaging
3.43 p.c. copper. What the future holds
for this co. and other big copper pro-
ducers remains to be seen. Ore reserves
of the large low-cost Rhodesian mines
are well-nigh illimitable, and their out-
puts are being. stepped up. Much will
depend upon how long the prevailing
active demand for the metal for indus-
trial and armament purposes continues.
% —■ — * # *
Bundi Tin, which has raised its dredge
to Chinaman’s Terrace, where 1,679,000
c.y. of 5.5 gr. wash is estimated to be
available, is still not clear of its
troubles. To stop leakage from the pad-
dock —tunnels from old workings have
been met —it has been necessary to tem-
porarily close down the plant. Revenue
since the close of accounts has failed to
cover outgo, and the co. is now asking
those on its register for another 6d. per
share, making the scrip paid to 28s. To
date operations in Maoriland, where the
co. took over a special claim of 471
acres in 1933 after backing out of
Malaya, have been a disappointment to
shareholders. The property is near
Greymouth, on the South Island’s West
Coast. The proved sector (about 77 acres)
was estimated to contain 2,955,900 c.y.,
averaging 4.5 gr. Digging 120,000 c.y.
monthly, the rated capacity of the
dredge, this section was expected to yield
a total profit of £87,500 with gold at £6
an ounce. With the yellow metal at £B,
the figure was put nearer £135,000, or
for the whole area £390,000, assum-
ing the remaining ground was of the
same depth and value. A profit of £2199
was cleared from the first six months’
operations (to Dec., 1935), but a loss of
£2936 showed up for the next twelve
months. Costs have been heavy owing
to the hard nature of the ground. Market
for the scrip stands at 10s.
* * '<■ *
From Bendigo: After passing through
14ft. of gold-bearing spurs (B. 13/10/’37),
South Virginia’s bottom crossicut has
struck a nicely mineralised body of solid
quartz 3ft. wide, showing colors, and the
co. is rising on it to connect with the
460 ft. level. The spurs, which do not
appear to originate from the upper level,
may have some connection with an in-
verted saddle, which it is hoped to en-
counter at greater depth. Provided mill-
ing was done on the spot, latest
developments would provide a bit
towards the cost of future underground
work. As it is, the co. crushes at the dis-
tant Sheepshead battery, cartage and
crushing charges running away with
around Bs. per ton. With an eye to the
future, South Virginia has purchased a
tentative mill site half a mile from its
workings. If the necessary finance can
be made available when the mine is
better opened up, such a mill would
alsa serve the North Virginia and South
Virginia Extended cos. Together, the
three cos. occupy about i\ miles, on the
Paddy’s Gully line of reef.
H»
Thanks to increased yardage and
much-improved values, owing to the 70ft.
stratum of wash proving practically solid
over the whole of the area treated, ac-
counts of Cocks Pioneer Gold and Tin,
Eldorado (Vic.), after charging £2OOO for
depreciation and £3829 for development,
show a sharp lift of £23,756 (to £28,520)
in profits for the 12 months to June 30.
Divs. totalling 6s. per share (£30,000)
were disbursed during the period. The
table compares results from the begin-
ning:—
Working
Year Sluiced, Recovery, Costs,
June, c.y. c.y. e.v. Profit. Dividends.
1935.. 576,236 1/0.7 9.44 d. £13.031 £5,000
1936.. 774,415 -/11.3 8.22 d. 4,494 10,000
1937.. 919,400 1/5.8 8.53 d. 28,520 30,000
After the close of accounts, the market
for the 95.-paids fell sharply from 11s.
to ss. That was because sluicing opera-
tions were suspended, following disclosure
of a hard clay intrusion over the
whole of the upstream face in the
working paddock. A new lead, however,


TRUCK OWNERS!
Ride the road that leads to
I
I
\
a
m
m
m
mm
V
m
m
m
MT.90.14.37.
• TREAD and CASING
protected by heavily
ARMOURED WALLS.
•GREATER RIM
STABILITY because
of twin Bead Wires.
• MORE MILES AND
SAFER SERVICE be-
cause of greater con-
structional strength.
7k
Barnet Glass
TRUCK TYRES
are your greatest Profit Builders
BARNET GLASS RUBBER CO. LTD., INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA
Public Notice.
C ORESTRY BONDS.—I pay up to £5 more
1 per bond than other buyers for N.Z. Per-
petual Forests Bonds.—R. F. CORMACK, 440
Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
A SURE FRIEND IN UNCERTAIN TIMES . .
-
m
**
mm
mm
• Vi :-m i'
r ' ”•* ,>. -
: • *&0
mm
mm
■ n • ••••■••
& : >tf $
$ : *
hi
m <
syr<
m
mm
;:;:fv:-X;.v:;'.v
i!
m
mimmm
/
s';
*
•■:' : '
£1:
liM
Ask your wife
TO-NIGHT
TELL your wife the income that she will derive
from your life assurance or other property, in
the event of your death, and then ask her these
questions:—
Could she continue the payments on the
home mortgage?
Or, alternatively, could she pay rent on a
suitable home?
Could she support herself and her
children?
Could she educate the children?
Would it be necessary for her to go and
find a job?
Is she trained to earn even a fair in-
come for herself and the children?
If the honest facing of these questions disturbs
your mind—and hers—ask the nearest A.M.P.
office to show you the best way to do the right
thing; the way to provide immediate and adequate
security on payment of a small premium; the best
way to put your wife and children beyond the dread
and fear of want, and, at the same time, to give
yourself peace of mind.
A.M.P. SOCIETY
The Largest Mutual Life Office in the Empire.
C. A. ELLIOTT, F.1.A., A. W. SNEDDON, F.1.A..
Actuary. General Manager.
C. M. MARTIN,
Secretary and Chief Inspector,
D. E. WALKER,
Manager for New South Wales.
HEAD OFFICE: 87 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Branch Offices at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth and
Hobart.
District Offices throughout all States.
New Zealand Branch Office: Customhouse Quay, Wellington.
has been located at the north end of the
lease ; and six lines of bores (49 in all)
have proved it to continue downstream
for 1500 ft. (estimated yarding 2,800,000
c.y., averaging 15d.). The scrip has re-
covered to Bs. Present indications are
that the new lead connects with the work-
ing paddock, so sluicing may soon be re-
sumed. Later the intervening area
(approx. 2500 ft.) will be bored. The
present co. took over from the old
Pioneer co. in 1934. Part of the original
lease was handed over to Cocks
Eldorado Dredging for £3OOO cash
and 50,000 f.-p. 10s. shares, which were
later handed on to shareholders.
Recoveries and costs have been well
up to estimates. To date original
shareholders have had 90 p.c. of their
capital back in divs. At June 30 liquids
totalled £25,975, subject to final div. of
£lO,OOO. Creditors figured for £3266.
* * $ *
Last month the State mill at Irvine-
bank (N.Q.) put through 20 tons from the
dump of the You and Me, Stannary Hills,
at a cost of 11s. 7-yd. per ton. Carting
and rail costs were Bs. per ton. The yield
was 0.818 p.c. tin, assaying 61.7 metal.
Another parcel of 42 tons from the Gov-
ernor Norman cost 12s. a ton for crush-
ing. It averaged only 0.57 p.c. tin, 61.7
p.c. pure.
4= * * *
“Fine Gold”: Goldfields Labor mem-
ber Bill Marshall has succeeded in get-
ting an amendment through the West-
ralian Legislative’ Assembly making it
impossible for the Minister to grant new
goldmining reservations or to renew ex-
piring ones. The amendment has still
to pass the Upper House. Meanwhile,
Claude de Bernales and other big holders
of reservations are protesting loudly
against the freedom of the Minister being
curtailed. De Bernales declares such an
alteration to the Act would strike a
stunning blow to overseas investment in
Westralian goldmining, and suggests that
it would be fairer to require the Minister
to submit to Parliament once a year a
complete list of reservations, any or all
of which could be refused renewal at the
discretion of Parliament. Others, whose
reservations expire sooner, favor ap-
pointment of a select committee to in-
vestigate the whole question before the
amendment becomes law. They claim
that reservations have been responsible
for the investment of a large amount of
capital, and have done no harm.
* >s * *
London-controlled Ora Banda United
(W.A.) admits a loss of £5083 for last
year, and reports that 9905 ft. of de-
velopment has been done to date. It is
not long since an annual profit of
£A 102,000 on a throughput of 100,000
tons was estimated, and ore reserves
were declared to exceed the million-ton
mark. Something was also said about ore
in a lode “over 150 ft. wide in places,”
which had not been taken into account.
So far there has been no independent
confirmation of co.’s estimates.
* * * *
Edna May Amalgamated struggles on
at the resurrected Westonia group (W.A.).
The water problem is said to have been
overcome, and opening up of payable
ground in the old Edna May Central is
reported to be in progress. Operating
with 10-head of stamps, the co. crushed
784 tons (including some from de-
velopment) for 1550 z. gold last month.
Tailings stacked for future treatment
assayed 2dwt. 4gr. At the moment divs.
are too distant to be seen with the maked
eye.
* * * ip
The De Bernales group broadcasts that
divs. paid to date from Yellowdine ore
(W.A.) have returned to interested cos.
over 75 p.c. of the capital they indivi-
dually subscribed. Commonwealth Min-
ing and Finance received £69,411 (Aust.),
Anglo-Australian Gold Development
£27,764, Gold Fields Australian Develop-
ment ditto, and Gt. Boulder Mining and
Finance £25,132. Yellowdine’s develop-
ment programme for the near future in-
cludes the opening up of a new level at
a depth of 300 ft. vertical on the east
lode, which is looking so well at and
below the 200 ft. level.
* * * *
North Boulder (W.A.) is cleaning up,
and any surplus after realisation of
assets is to be used to secure another
property, if anything promising turns up,
failing which it will be divided among
shareholders. The reopening, at con-
siderable expense, of the old deep levels
in the co.’s Kalgoorlie mine, and the
attention subsequently given to shal-
lower workings, failed to put the co. on
the road to wealth.
* * * *
London-controlled Hampton Areas
continues to lose money; the debit
balance carried forward from last year
was £14,500. A few leaseholders have
been searching for gold on the co.’s
large freehold areas at Hampton Plains
(W.A.), but nothing of importance has
been found. A limited drilling pro-
gramme is now being carried out. Since
the close of accounts the co. has sold
the Golden Hope North lease to Aus-
tralian Mining Trust, Ltd., for £5OOO
(stg.) and received a deposit of £3500.
The balance is payable by instalments.
Empress, N.L., with goldmining inter-
ests in Westralia, announces that during
the past year it sold 8000 of 12,000 shares
in Tindals Coolgardie for £754, and re-
ceived £l2B in divs. from 10,000 shares
in Blue Bird, a small rich crusher at
Norseman. Empress has a block adjoin-
ing the Blue Bird holding in which it
hopes to find the continuation of the pay-
able Blue Bird reef.
* * * *
After three or four attempts to get rich
quick, the board of Yellowdine Gold
Areas, N.L. (W.A.), will ask shareholders
on October 26 whether they want the co.
to go on or wind up. The co.’s interests
are at present confined to its original
holding at Yellowdine, where, according
to the board, prospects are not alluring.
Funds in hand total over £14,000.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
C.W.H.: (1) Yes, the Official Record of each
of the four princpal Stock Exchanges. (2) Yes.
G.J.C.: Fair prospect of substantial re-
covery on present price, but chances of getting
the figure you paid look blue R.L.N.: The
bonds are long-term speculation; if you cannot
afford to take a risk, keep out G.J.L.:
Shares not listed, and the co. does not broad-
cast its balance-sheet J.T.: Hold for an-
other month or two.
PATENTS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt’
* * * ift
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 422
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). —Advt.
* * * *
AUSTRALASIAN timberlands and plantation
valuation surveys, milling plants, certification of
shipments. L. MACINTOSH ELLIS, B.Sc. (late
Director State Forest Service, New Zealand), Consult-
ing Forest Engineer, 8 Bond Street, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts,
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament 1888),
hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Colonial Mutual Life
Building, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
, * * * *
For all Pump Repairs and Replacements, get in
touch with William Adams & Company, Limited,
175 Clarence Street, Sydney. Agents for WORTH-
INGTON PUMPS for all services. Write for our
latest General Catalogue. —Advt.


m
its
mi
“Let Atlas carry the burden.”
Established 1808.
Security to Policyholders exceeds
£18,000,000.
F ire—Accident—Marine
WOOL (Sheep's • back to store)
■■ ■ ■ * - !■ " T T v
CROP Insurance
Combined Hail &~Fire Policies
Applications "invited for' Agencies where
not
ATLAS
ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
(ENGLAND).
D.-NORMAN, T t RENERY, , r ■ -
Manager for Australia and New Zealand,
“Atlas” Buildings, 406 Collins St., Melbourne.
Head Office for New South Wales:
“Atlas” Buildings, 8 Spring Street, Sydney.
GUY H. HEATH, Manager.
QOUTH AFRICA is one of
most attractive coun-
tries in the world. The per-
fect climate, the rolling
veldt, the mountains, valleys
and woodlands, the quaint
native life —these are all a
part of its charm. But its
fascination lies deeper, for
to those who live there, and
even to those who have only
visited, this is the one coun-
try to which they always
desire to return.
expend
OUTH AFRICA
For full particulars, apply to all offices of
DALGETY & CO,. LTD.
(Incorporated in England)
Agents South African Railways throughout Australia and New Zealand.
CoailiiL
NOZAC
Pens - Pencils - Sets
More and more people to-day
appreciate the,, quality of
Conklin and insist upon
Conklin writing instruments,
in preference to any other.
The Nozac filling system is
recognised as supremely
dependable. Sturdy construc-
tion and simplicity of
mechanism are the principal
features. Pencils to match
are available.
Here are the seven superior
features which distinguish
Conklin Nozacs as the world’s
finest precision fountain pens :
1. Capacity. More than 9J
hours of constant writing, or
50 average letters. Scientifi-
cally gauged ink space, per-
mitting every drop of ink to
be used without fear of flood-
ing.
2. Visibility. Full length or
complete transparent ink
chambers.
3. Leak-proof. Inner cap
specially designed to prevent
leaking, yet the point will
write the moment it touches
paper.
4. Cushion Point. A revolu-
tionary advance in writing
ease and smoothness.
5. Stem-wind Filler. A simple,
efficient and dependable
device, proven by eight years
in the hands of the consumers.
Its operation compares with
the winding of a watch.
G. Controlled Feed. Insures
uniform flow of ink.
7. l?eauty. Modern design
harmonises witli streamline
styling.
Pens are Priced at 22/6, 30/-
and 40/-.
Pencils to Match. 17/6, 25/-.
Complete Sets in Presentation
Cases, 40/-, 55/- and 65/-.
From Leading Stores Everywhere.
1
Business,Rollery,Etc.
Normanby Tin > -
Representing another case of specula-
tion in shares of srnall denomination, the
Is.-paid 2s. shares, of Normanby Tin,
N.L., sold at a highest price of 3s 1 . 3d. on
Sydney ’Change this year, and a lowest
of Is. 6d. Last week the market was at
2s. 3d., giving the show a valuation of
£56,250, taking vendors’, scrip in at the
same price as the contribs. The scrip is
fairly active in both Sydney and Mel-
bourne the co. is domiciled in the
southern capital, though its property is
40 miles s.-w. of Cooktown (N.Q.). Sluic-
ing has recently commenced.
The proposition was floated in Dec.,
1936. The vendor, Gold Dredges, Ltd.,
took £5OOO in cash and 150,000 f.-p.
2s. shares, of which £l7OO in cash and
30,000 shares went to the claim-holders.
The public was offered 350,000 shares
(now paid to Is.), which were under-
written.
Three reports were published in the
prospectus; one by E. G. Banks, mining
engineer, who was also a director of the
co. and part-underwriter of the public,
issue; another by W. H. Smith, who has
had experience in Malayan tinmining ;
a third and supplementary report
by L. V. Ellis.
Mr. Banks spent three and a half days
on the Normanby property and had
four pits sunk. The most important
information is found in the statements by
Messrs. Smith and Ellis ; Smith sank 30
shafts on Boyle and Carne’s claim, the
principal one, and from the results Ellis
has estimated
Assuming the influence of each shaft to
extend throughout a half-chain radius, the
area tested by shafting becomes 21ch. x
7ch.—14.7 acres, of average depth 10.4ft.,-
and average value 4.41 b. tin per cubic
yard.
The variation in values at different points
is rather wide, as might be expected where
the average is high and the depth com-
paratively shallow. After making some
deductions —10 p.c. for slate bars in
yardage, 10 p.c. margin for sampling in
values, an acre in area off for shafts
sunk —a figure of 200,000 c.y. going 41b.
was estimated, with assumed recovery (90
p.c.) of 720,0001 b. tin oxide. This much
was regarded by the engineers as being
proved.
In Gliddon’s claim 34,830 c.y., value
41b., and in stream channels and Camp-
bell’s claim 279,000 c.y. going 21b.,
recoverable in all 627,0001 b. t. 0., were
spoken of as probable by Mr. Ellis. The
promoters also had something to say:
Attention is further drawn to the pos-
sible significance of shaft 89.. Mr. Ellis
is of the opinion that on that particular
portion of the field the general conditions
are favorable to the occurrence of a false
bottom, which may extend, for a distance
of 12 chains in length, by an unknown
width, but .the time was not available for
, Mr. Ellis to explore this further. . Should,
however, this possibility be realised, a
, considerable increase in production is indi- .
cated. ; :
The prospectus would have been all the
better off if' conjecture of this kind had
been: left out,*, or kept strictly in the
experts’ report.
In addition to the tested areas, there
was 24 acres of untested surface land at
date of the prospectus.
Estimated profits were based “on the
yardage and value shown in Mr. Ellis’s
report.” Still, even at that, to those not
reading Ellis’s report the distinction
between “proved,” “probable” and “pos-
sible” ore in the body of the prospectus
isn’t clear enough; it all follows on
under the sub-heading of “probable
yardage.” From the 200,000 c.y. which
further reference finds to be “proved,”
720,0001 b. tin oxide at Is. 6d. per lb.'was
estimated to yield £54,000 ; from 313,000
c.y. (described seven pages over as “prob-
able”), 627,3001 b. t.o. was expected to be
won, worth £47,000; total, £lOl,OOO.
Recovery costs were put at Is. a yard,
showing “estimated mine profit” at
£75,350. This hoped-for mine profit is
worth comparing with the sharemarket’s
valuation of the show at 2s. 3d. a share.
Costs were put at Is. a yard, sluicing
5000 c.y. a week. In view of the shallow
ground and small area the co. will be
doing wonderfully well if it achieves that
result. At Briseis . (Tas.), which last
month put through an average of 15,000
c.y. a week, the- management has done
good work to get working costs down to
Is. 6d. a yard. \
Normanby started sluicing on August
27. The plant was stopped from Sept. 7
to Sept. 13 to repair the pressure dam,
and then went on to Sept. 18. On Sept.
.25 the co. announced; that-“during open-
ing-out operations the plant treated 6000
c.y. for 4 tons 15cwt.' tin ore.” That
works out at just under T.Blb. to the
yard, , including “clayey” overburden,
which is included in ore reserves, but
which would very likely figure to a larger-
than-usual extent during preliminary
working. It is probable that some very
good ground will shortly be encountered.
The market shouldn’t forget, however,
that profits have to be spread over
500,000 shares.
In the big share- and commodity-
market crash last April in London it was
remarkable that settlement days passed
over without any notable failures. There
was a suggestion, however, that prices
even after the big dip weren’t properly
standing on their own feet —that the
strong were attending to the weak, and
that excessive holdings hadn’t all been
dumped at once. That seems to be one
reason for the prolonged sickness in most
metal and share prices. A fluctuating
market like the present isn’t a normal
one.
* * * *
The big commission-earners for brokers
in Melbourne last week were Broken
Hill South, in which 15,500 shares were
officially traded in up to Thursday,
North B.H. (14,000) and Mt. Lyell (7400).
Two-ways brokerage is payable on these
mining stocks. Broken Hill Prop, shares
numbering 11,050 changed hands in four
days, and 4950 Electro. Zincs (ord. and
pref.).
* * * *
The ord. shares in Arthur Cocks and
Co., Sydney wholesalers of optical goods,
watches, jewellery, etc., may still be
bought'at 245. On an 8 p.c. div. basis
they yield £6 13s. 4d. per cent., and last
year 13.3 p.c. was shown on ord. capital
after paying the prefs. Business has
been so brisk lately that two storeys are
being added to the York-street head-
quarters. Average ord. div. over the
last decade has been 7 p.c. p.a.
n'
The. grade of ore milled by Golden
.Plateau. (Cracow, Q.) has been steady
over the past, four months, which roughly
represent a third of the new term.
Accounts closed on June 30, and were
presented last week; why they take so
long to; make up is hard to understand.
,A profit, of £155,663 has been shown,
after providing £8043 for depreciation—
it was close to the estimate in B.
.7/7/’37. , During the 52 weeks from
June 20, 1936, to June 21, 1937, the co.
milled 48,462 tons for 25,8080 z., an aver-
age recovery of 10.6dwt. In the last
eight weeks Of that period the grade,
following the lifting of milling operations
to around 4500 tons a month, dropped
to B.Bdwt. In the 16 weeks since (to Oct.
9), 17,795 tons has gone through for
80360 z., an average of B.9dwt. Taking
all-in. costs at 30s. a ton (up 4s. on
1935-36. actual figures), the co. should
be earning,at the rate of about £140,000
a year at present. Divs. of 3s. per share
would call for £126,000 p.a. There was
about four years’ ore in sight last balance
day, going, about 6.5dwt., so that present
millings appear to be above the average
grade. Latest developments suggest that
at depth the greater part of the lode
material may become payable, as against
three enriched shoots which are being
worked at present. The deeper ore would
require different treatment. The show
has been one of the really substantial new
discovMes of the last decade.
* # ? #
Zinc Corp. ords. dropped below £5
10s. at one period last week. This is
the most interesting of Barrier stocks.
* * * *
Three-quarters of the 1937 financial
year now having passed by, North Kal-
gurli’s figures continue interesting. In
the nine months to Sept. 30 100,567 tons
has been milled for a return of £338,086
Australian, with working exes, at £141,917
and capital outlay at £31,177. Compared
with the full 1936 term, recoveries have
lifted from 58s. a ton to 675. 3d., while
working costs have dropped from 28s.
lOd. to 28s. 3d. Nine months in 1937
have shown £33,113 more working profit
(£196,169) than for the whole of 1936
(£163,056) on a tonnage of 100,567 as
against 112,338. The scrip keeps steady
both in London, and Australia.
* 1= * *
The weakness in Myer scrip in Mel-
bourne would suggest that a large parcel,
possibly out of an estate, is on the
market. During the first three days of
last week 4800 shares changed hands at
prices as low as 335. 6d. There was a
firming on Thursday, sales dropping to
600 shares and closing quote being
345. 9d. Even at that the shares looked
a bargain as retail-store investments go.
* * * *
The brewers’ strike now being over in
Brisbane, Castlemaine Perkins and
Queensland Brewery are getting down to
the job of slaking an aggravated thirst.
Summer has started early in the northern
State,, and the month’s loss of trade, es-
pecially in C.P.’s case, may in some
measure be compensated for before the
financial year is over.
sfc ❖ He *
In Melbourne last week:
Yarra Falls shares could be got at 395. 9d.,
and looked attractive. Broken Hill Props.
recovered from Wednesday’s “low” of 755. 6d.,
and sold at 78s. on Friday. Electro.
Zinc fluctuated, the ords. steadying at last
about 545. 6d. following general improvement
in the London market.
Mt. Lyell slumped to 375. 9d., then came
back to around 395. 6d. A profit of over 30t>.c.
on capital is indicated for the year just closed,
but the market is scared of metal prices.
Copper producers have started restricting again,
however.
B.H. Prop.
The shares in B.H.P. are always
worth buying when going cheap.
Last week they could be got at
755. 9d. for a while, then firmed
to 78s. The co.’s position and
prospects have been given much
space here lately. It is worth
mentioning, however, that much of
the equipment for tin-dredges in
the Malay States is processed in
Australia from B.H.P. steel in
competition with the world.


*<*
: ■
/ *
STRATH ED EN 23,400 Tons
STRATH ALLAN 23,400 Tons
A ST R ATH MORE 23,400 Tons,
STRATHNAVER 22,300 Tons
.ST R ATH At RD 22.300 Tons-
AT
mmsa
ip
~
m
i
?A.'. S' - ;■ v
■•-wxxas,®::
m
*Yf
msm
m
m
W&:
mi
M
AV"
m
Wr
m
WP:
m
m
tm
y ■:■:•:■
mm
0
I
©
The above Liners are included in the
P & O sailings to Europe between
November, 1937, and May, 1938.
Sailing dates and other information
will be found in the daily Press.
USEFUL GIFTS
Three-blade. Stock; with Castrating, Sheep
and Long Skinning Blade, 4in., Smooth
Horn. Handle,' 8/6 each.
'ok-
IMPROVED ALLEGRO SHARPENER
FOR SAFETY RAZOR BLADES, auto-
matically strops and hones, both sidesof
blade without removing blade. No skill
required—just slide blade holder up and
down. For Gillette-pattern Blades, 25/-.
POST FREE
FOR CASH
WITH ORDER.
V,.\
GENUINE BADGER
HAIR SHAVING
BRUSH, superfine
quality, latest design
handle. Various mark-
ings.
Small - size- ......17/6
Medium size . .* i•. 19/6
W. JNO. BAKER
PTY.
LTD.,
mm
BAKER’S SIX, specially designed for use
among stock; six blades. Finest quality
and finish. 4in. stag haft, 21/- each.
Smaller size, 3Jin. stag haft, 19/6 each.
cm
LADIES’ SCISSOR CASES, made of fancy
leather, containing three pair nickel-plated
scissors. 25/- complete.
3 HUNTER STREET,
SYDNEY.
As indicated in B. 22/9/’37, via Aus-
tralian Drug seems to be the better way
of acquiring an interest in Drug Houses
of Australia. A.D. ords. lifted from 13s.
6d. to 14s. 3d. on stronger inquiry last
week, and, allowing for the div. (4 p.c.)
payable on the 28th of this month, the
yield available is £6 2s. per cent, on a
4 p.c. basis, as against £5 Bs. sd. per
cent, in D.H.A.’s case if it maintains
its div„ at last year’s final rate (7 p.c.
p.a.). Australian Drug received 6 p.c.
from D.H.A. during the year in which
it paid 4 p.c.; if it collects 7 p.c. this
year it may pay 4\ p.c. or 5 p.c. Income
from its buildings last year was £2820
in excess of all expenses. The Boots
bogey doesn’t, seem to be such a menace
as was first thought.
* * *
Berlei (Sydney) ords. are keeping very
firm around 40s. They have always
been a well-regarded stock here.
* * * *
Preliminary operations have started on
the property of King Island Scheelite
(Bass Strait), reviewed in B. 6/10/’37.
Wolfram has been quoted lately in
London at £6 per unit, and the 25.-paids
opened at 2s. 6d. last week.
* * * *
Producers and General Finance ords.
dipped down to 9s. lid. last Thursday;
on Friday there was a recovery of a few
pence. On the basis of last year’s div.
(14 p.c.) the yield is quoted in the papers
at 28 p.c. On the basis of the final div.
(8 p.c. p.a.) the figure drops to 16 p.c.
With net tangible assets of 15s. 6d. per
£1 of ord. capital on book values, it will
not be easy to maintain high divs. from
ordinary finance operations. Still, if
assets had been shown in greater detail
in the last accounts, support for the scrip
mightn’t have been so wishy-washy.
* * * *
Howard Auto-Cultivators, Northmead
(Sydney), earned 14.7 p.c. on its increased
capital last term, as against 18.2 p.c. in
the preceding year. Latest accounts
cover a period of factory reorganisation
and extraordinary outgo in connection
with patents, etc., all of which, except
actual capital outgo, has been charged
to revenue. The div. was maintained at
9 p.c. In spite of greatly-increased out-
put of rotary-hoes, etc., the works are
still unable to keep pace with demand.
Last sale for the £1 ords. was at 325.
Allowing for the div. (about Is. lOd.)
payable on 22nd, the yield offering is
6 p.c. A new issue is forecast.
* * * V
The ords. of Holeproof Hosiery are
still weak in Melbourne at around 285.,
returning £7 3s. per cent, to buyers at
the price. Last year’s div. was 10 p.c.,
and an interim at the same rate has been
paid. Earnings in 1936 amounted to 19
p.c. on ord. capital; half-way through
the current term, which ends on Dec.
31, prospects were reported to be satis-
factory. There is a general hesitancy
about investing in some textile cos. at
the moment because of threatened over-
production in the hosiery industry,
higher wages and increased raw-material
costs. The gloomy side in Holeproof’s
case appears to have been overdone. The
shares look very fair buying.
Lustre Hosiery (Sydney), in the State
that has most of the labor disadvantages
where manufacture of clothing is con-
cerned, has paid an unchanged ord.
interim at the rate of 7} p.c. p.a. The
co. should now be getting full benefit of
the new plant additions that ran it into
considerable outlay during 1936.
H*
Scrip in Austin Distributors has taken
a sharp tumble in Melbourne ; follow-
ing sales at 495. in August, there were
dealings at 425. 9d. a short while ago,
then 425. and 40s. 6d. last week. In
B. 4/8/’37 the then substantial market
premium was mentioned as having taken
the shine out of the picture for investors
at the ruling price. It has been a suc-
cessful co., but high returns should be
asked for from motor concerns that
haven’t large investments outside the
business to steady divs.
* % ij« 5^
Loloma (Fiji) has announced difficul-
ties in oil-firing of the roaster furnaces —
the process of treating the ore is roasting
and cyaniding, which may, when other
mining and working exes, are included,
run out fairly high. The grade
claimed for the ore (26.8dwt.) can stand
high costs : the question is whether quan-
tities will eventually sustain the market
price of the scrip. Quotes dropped to
18s. 4d. at one stage last week.
* * .* *
Tingha Alluvials (N.S.W.) sluiced 8300
yards in September for tons tin ore,
valued at £lO3O ; costs were £570, about
Is. sd. a yard. There are 44,000 55.-paid
shares, which sold in September at 12s.
each, after a “high” of 16s. 6d. Market
activity is small.


HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young; Streets, Sydney
s mmmm
i
a
mm
* im
’ll lIII® i
I!
if!
31!
1
* 111
Modern high-class accommodation
at a moderate tariff. Hot and cold
water in all rooms. Rooms with
and without private Bathrooms
and Telephones available. Meals
at moderate rates unexcelled
cuisine Dining Rooms, Grill
Room, Banquet Room and Winter-
garden, together with a first-class
orchestra.
Rooms only from 6/6 per night.
Telegrams, Cables and IVireless
"METROPOLE.” Sydney.
Telephones: 8W2061 (9 lines)
86363 (4 lines)
SMOKE-OH!
It seems that the Japanese have a
grudge against the Chinese because the
Chinese have a grudge against the
Japanese for having a grudge against the
Chinese.
•J* -Tr 4*
“Respectable young married man, like posi-
tion crematorium, undertakers, hospital, any-
thing relating to deceased persons.”
—“ Courier-Mail” ad.
And no doubt he hopes the job won’t
prove too stiff!
•J* ./
“The man was a boor and his valet was
worse.” — Woman’s paper.
A no-gentleman’s no-gentleman,
*l* •!• ❖
“What is it that usually produces these
domestic storms?” — “Sun.”
Sometimes, it’s the husband’s inability
to raise the wind.
*l* *!* >l*
“While counting his cash, he was knocked
unconscious.” — “D.T.”
Taking the count while counting the
takings.
“According to a psychiatrist sleek-haired
women have a tendency to shortness of
temper.”
Their husbands, of course, have to take
the huff with the smooth.
The Boiling-down Works.
Monday. —From the Furphy Cable
Service: “It is reported from Gibraltar
that a ’plane, said to be a Savoia-Mar-
chetti, yesterday dived from low-lying
clouds and dropped a bomb on the after-
deck of the British sloop Bugbite, which
was engaged on anti-piracy patrol, caus-
ing extensive casualties. A greaser on
the Bugbite who witnessed the attack
said he distinctly saw the pilot, who had
black oily hair and a curly black mous-
tache.”
Tuesday. —From the Special Corre-
spondent of the “Daily Tripe”: “The
Bugbite outrage has stirred England to
its depths. It is learned on unimpeach-
able authority that the Prime Minister
has summoned the heads of the fighting
services to a conference at Downing-
street Meanwhile the City is calm,
though Consols have weakened. Lon-
doners are discussing the possible out-
come in awed whispers.
Wednesday. —“Pertinax,” writing in
the “Echo de Paris,” urges the Govern-
ment to collaborate with Britain in tak-
ing the strongest possible action to
muzzle the mad dogs of Europe. The
Berlin-Rome axis, he contends, will vis-
“The strife Wants t ’ know if I m bein' true to 'er."
ibly weaken at a sign of determined
Anglo-French strength.
Thursday. —The Gibraltar correspon-
dent of the “News-Chronicle” reveals in
an exclusive interview with the mate of
the greaser who saw the attacking ’plane
that the pilot shouted “Basta!” as he
flew away. In an editorial comment, the
paper asks whether this expression was
ever heard outside the country which
groans beneath the iron heel of the
Fascist arch-murderer, and wonders how
much longer the people of England will
tolerate with burning shame the spine-
less inactivity of a Government which
sits by and lets a piratical monomaniac
ravage the seas.
Friday. —The octogenarian Bishop of
Bilgewater, in a speech at Bury St.
Edmunds, said that, in all humility, it
might now be necessary to beat our
ploughshares back into swords, the wield-
ing of which on behalf of international
sanity and righteousness might be viewed
as a sacred duty by our young men.
He would feel proud to bless them for
SU L«rrf™ S -From the Paris correspon-
dent of the “Howler”: “The Bugbite in-
cident had further repercussions yester-
day when a further flight from the franc
commenced. The Bourse is seething.
The Left Wing deputies have threatened
to vote with the Centre party, and de-
feat of the Government seems certain.”
Madame Pomme de Terre, writing in
“L’Oef,” says she saw M. Delbos leav-
ing the Quai D’Orsay with his Homburg
hat dead centre on his head instead of
at its usual jaunty angle This she inter-
prets to mean the approach of an inter-
national crisis. The world, she says, is
waiting on Britain to give a lead, and
La Belle France will assuredly follow.
Sunday. In an official statement, the
Admiralty announces that, following in-
vestigations, it is learned that no aerial
attack was made on the sloop Bugbite.
What was at first thought to be an
explosion was actually due to a ginger-
beer bottle blowing a cork in the ratings’
mess. The greaser who said he saw an
Italian bomber now admits that it might
have been a frigate-bird. g Q
4. .g. ‘
“A carpenter wants alterations, repairs and
additions.”— “Courier-Mail.”'
J once knew a chap like that. He was
as thin as a lath and screwy in the joints,
and his rasping voice and the wooden
expression he always wore on his plane
features made him an eyesaw. I tried to
brace him up a bit and hammer some
sense into him, but his appearance got
him down, and after chiselling on his
friends for a while he took to vice until
a copper nailed him and took him before
the bench, where he was given free bored
for six months.
*l* * *2* *!<
“A Hollywood comedian has had to go to
hospital following injuries sustained in a fight
sequence of a film.”
One of those knockedabout comedians
we hear so much of.
Customs and Inhabitants of Our
Great Outback.
Were the urban dweller to penetrate
deep into the fastnesses of Australia’s
forest country his ears would be assailed
by the reverberating ring of axes biting
into forest giants, the whine of the cross-
cut saw and the persuasive tones of the
teamster as he encouraged his bullocks
by kindly word in their task of snigging
the great logs from where they have
fallen to positions handier to rest the
midday billy on.
Were he doubly fortunate he might
even be thrilled by the sight of a reckless
timber-getter perched precariously on his
scaffolding some two to three feet off the
ground, his safety belt fastened firmly
around his neck so as to give his brawny
arms free play, and his spiked running
shoes dug deep into his foothold, the
while he swung his Kelly in short and
gentle half-arm strokes so as not to dis-
turb unduly the sap of the tree he is
felling.
A word may not be amiss here on
wha-t must seem to the uninitiated the
startling raiment affected by this pic-
turesque bush figure. Naturally, it' has
an important bearing on his work.
The experienced timber-getter would
never think of putting his axe into a tree
unless he was suitably garbed, and for
this purpose it is necessary for him to
have several trunks full of clothes which
afford him the widest possible selection.
For instance, should he be about to fell,
say, a messmate in the fork of which
there is a hive of bees, he would don his
canary-yellow suit, aware that this bilious
color would reduce the aggressive insects
to a state of nausea that would render
them unable to wreak their wrath on
him. It must also be realised that he
needs two such suits, one of summer-
weight material and the other of heavy
serge for use during winter.
Again, should the surrounding under-
growth be comprised of wildflowers such
as the flannel flower, he would have to
wear cream flannels and pullover, white
shoes and socks and an umpire’s hat,
which would form a perfect camou-
flage and thus trick any passing snake.
These various color schemes, allowing
him as they do to “dissolve” into the
landscape, form a protection against all
forms of our treacherous fauna, from
possums to the great gecko lizards.
Without this safeguard it would be im-
possible for him to ply his trade.
Owing to the terrific draughts created
by other huge trees falling all around
him, the timber-getter invariably works
in a thick sweater in summer
and an ankle-length overcoat
in winter. Also, as a protec-
tion from the fierce rays of
the sun (Australian trees are
so high that the foliage,
which rarely branches out
under 180 ft. off the ground,
affords no protection), his
“offsider”—so called because
he stands on the timber-
getter’s “off” side or the side
away from the axe —holds
over him a huge umbrella as
he works. Such is the hardi-
hood of these workers, too,
that even rain does not stop
them, and the gamp is used
to shield him from this also.
The “offsider’s” other tasks
include handing the timber-
getter the various implements
and instruments he needs,
marking out with chalk the
line his axe is to take, shift-
ing the scaffolding around
the tree at regular intervals
to ensure evenness of cutting,
and picking out a safe place
for them both to dash to
when the tree is about to
fall. He also is equipped
with spiked running shoes for this
purpose.
It is when the tree’s fall is imminent
that the highest pitch of co-operation be-
tween them is reached. As the axeman
nears the heart of the tree he knocks off
every few strokes and places his spirit-
level against' the trunk to see if it has
started to move from the perpendicular.
Then he dons his supersensitive ear-
phones and listens-in to the tree to
detect the cracking sound which precedes
its descent.
Immediately the evidence from these
sources indicates that the vegetable is
moving towards the horizontal (no ex-
perienced timber-getter would trust to
one instrument alone—the two must
register results concurrently) the axeman
grasps his compass and ascertains the
direction that the falling trunk is taking.
This must, of necessity, be a quick opera-
tion, as the lives of himself, his “offsider”
and other fellers in the vicinity may de-
pend on it. On getting this information
he wastes no time in conveying it to his
“offsider,” who shouts in stentorian
tones: “Ware! Tree falling E by S.E.
Please keep out of the way!”
Used from the Murchison to the
Westralian banana belt, and from the
Gippsland sandalwood forests to the
famous lignum coppices* of Cape York,
this stock phrase is varied only by the
directions shown by the compass.
After making certain that the falling
trunk has gained sufficient impetus to
obviate any further assistance from him,
the axeman only stops to help his “off-
sider” gather up all the tools before re-
lieving himself of his safety belt', climb-
ing down the short ladder which the
other holds for him against the butt and,
with his companion, dashing off. The
direction taken is usually at an angle
of about 45deg. There is, naturally, a
sound reason for this move. Were they
to make off in the opposite direction the
strong currents created by the displaced
backwash of air caused by the falling tree
would seriously impair their speed.
S. W. K.
Influence of the Edifice.
“A psychologist says that people gradually
acquire many of the characteristics of the
house in which they live.”
Sadie resembles the dining-room door —
She’s as thin, but not quite as
compact;
The lintel and Tom are alike, further-
more —
At least, they all say that he’s cracked.
Kate looks like the chimney at times,
which conveys
That at smoking she shows no
restraint;
While Daphne, the flapperette, always
displays,
Like the guttering, plenty of paint.
The ceiling ( it’s oak ) has in common with
Ma
Certain breadth in the beam. But 1
think
That the most striking mark has been
left upon Pa,
For he’s under the sway of the sink !
NIPPER.
Something to Brood Over.
“‘I know Australia,’ he said to me. ‘That is
where you go to bed with the fowls.’ ”
— “S.M.H.”
Well, what can he eggspect from people
who are cooped up most of the day
scratching for a living?
If we don’t shell out most of what we
get, we’re perched in the dock before the
Beak. We’re plucked on the lay-by sys-
tem, and try to save a nest-egg, but some
fly bird gets his claws into us and leaves
us scarcely a feather to fly with.
Yes, that’s the yolk we have to bear,
and should we try to forget it with some
fluffy chicken there’s sure to be an old
hen round somewhere to cackle about it.
Someone’s got the spurs into us all
the time, but it sticks in our gizzard to
hear a coxcomb like this crow about it.
And so to roost.
AUSTRALORP.


Only those know
the Best who use
Featherweight
FIELD GLASSES
“The World’s Finest”
Sold by Leading
Jewellers and Opticians
Particulars and literature from
the Australian Representatives:
E. C. HE Y NE Pty. Ltd., 100 Flinders St
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
For the first time in 59 years the Caul-
field Cup of 1937 wasn’t held on its due
date. Overnight and up to 10 o’clock in
the morning 110 points of rain had
fallen. Conditions not having improved
meanwhile the V.A.T.C. committee at
10.45 decided not to race.
Half an hour after news of the post-
ponement had been broadcast there was
an improvement in the weather. By
noon it was merely cloudy, and no rain
fell again until the late evening. The
Caulfield track is sandy, and even though
there were 27 horses left in the Cup the
racing could have been carried out in
safety and without much public incon-
venience.
The decision to postpone, though well-
intentioned, was terribly unfortunate. It
has dislocated spring-meeting arrange-
ments in Melbourne. If it is possible to
race (it was raining worse than ever on
Monday) the Caulfield Cup is to be run
to-day (Wednesday)— too close to the
Moonee Valley Cup at the week-end.
Eccles and Reed took the Cup post-
ponement philosophically, arguing that
their horse, The Trump, might be all the
better for a bit more exercise. In the
Caulfield mud on Monday he galloped a
mile in lmin. 48|sec. At the bar-
rier The Trump will have only half a
dozen horses on the outside of him;
all the same, this Page thinks he is good
enough to overcome this disability and
win.
Alinura will start from the inside.
Other post positions are: Talking (10),
Wotan (9), King’s Head (16), Balkan
Prince (3), Donaster (4), Flood Tide (18),
Silver Standard (5), The Chanter (2),
Willie Win (11), Manolive (8), Demotic
(27), Desert Chief (22), Mutable (13),
Fireman (23), Sir Regent (14), Inter-
national (26), Spinifex (20), Stevenage
(12), The Wizard (24), Frill Prince (7),
Ronsardian (17), Beau Roi (25), Lautus
(15), Only One (6) and El Bruno (19).
* * * *
Lou Robertson was much in the lime-
light in the spring of 1935. He won the
Dei by with Feldspar, the Melbourne
Cup with Marabou, the Oaks with Nalda
and the Williamstown Cup with Garrio.
Robertson has no champions in hand this
season, but there are a few horses in
the stable capable of paying their way.
Last week Robertson went close to
landing a double at Moonee Valley. He
won the Glendewar Welter for A. T.
Creswick with Dictator (Chivalrous-Miss
Neville) and ran second in the Gowrie
Handicap with Royal Messenger (Mar-
conigram-Purple Lilac) for T. Hogan,
who was part-owner of Marabou.
Dictator and Royal Messenger were
ridden by an apprentice who claims 71b.
allowance. The former scored by four
lengths from Fireman, who conceded
him 221 b. Dan Lewis felt elated at the
manner in which Fireman came home
after being far back in the field. His
horse wouldn’t have troubled Dictator
in any circumstances, but it was an en-
couraging first attempt at the left-handed
direction of galloping.
Backed to favoritism in his race, Royal
Messenger was beaten by Pantoon. If
his jockey had not been obliged to make
a lot of use of his mount in the early
stages to obtain a position the result
might have been somewhat different.
However, Pantoon is a handsome little
fellow, and more will be heard of him.
Fryer, the trainer of Wotan, had a
profitable week in Melbourne. With
Pantoon (7 to 1) he won the Gowrie
Handicap at Moonee Valiev, and with
old Red Manfred (5 to 2) the Cran-
bourne Gold Cup on the course of that
name. Pantoon, who is a three-year-old
colt by Musketoon-Panette, scored in
open company, the field including Red
Ray (third), Highardo, Greenhorn and
seven others.
Red Manfred’s return to something
like his old form must be gratifying to
the stable. A couple of years ago the
A.J.C. handicapper awarded the Man-
fred gelding 9st. 41b. in the Epsom and
9st. lib. in the Metrop. As a three-
year-old he was in the same class as
Nightly, and on one occasion he beat
Golden Wings.
Bud Burmester, an American sporting
journalist who came over to report the
Melbourne Cup, was astounded to
hear that the races had been post-
poned. In the United States, where some
of the meetings extend over 50
days, they run “rain or shine.”
Certain horses race only in wet weather,
when the track is almost knee deep
in mud. Convinced that our best
horses, could beat rivals of like calibre
in his own country, Burmester has been
trying so far without success —to
buy gallopers for shipment to the U.S.A.
An offer of 5000gns. for Avenger was
rejected by Percy Miller.
Though disappointed at the showing
which Elanage made in the Caulfield
Guineas, Steinberg intends to send other
horses over from Maoriland next
autumn and to have a crack at the
spring classics. Believing that Australian
horses are faster than M.L, sprinters, he
proposes to buy a brood mare, mate her
with Gaine Carrington and send her
to the Dominion, where the progeny will
be raised.
H-
There were only 21,000 people at
Randwick for the City Tatt.’s Club’s
meeting—a decline of 2000 on the attend-
ance at the corresponding show last year.
The weather was gloomy, and drizzling
rain began to fall before the last race ;
but if Sydney racing were in a healthy
condition it would have taken more than
clouded skies to keep punters away, es-
pecially as, in consequence of an adverse
police-court decision, there was no tin-
hare meeting that night. No doubt the
postponement of the Caulfield Cup
affected gate receipts to some extent.
Sydney bookmakers do a considerable
trade betting on Melbourne races —one
man, who compiles a comfortable
libretto, does nothing else.
Oration, who is owned by a Leich-
hardt butcher, N. Wheeler, broke a run
of bad luck when, backed from 5 to 2
to 7 to 4, he won the Novice Handicap.
This three-year-old son of Pantheon had
previously run five seconds. His dam,
Girton Girl, was raced successfully by
the elder Kelso. Roi Sion and Strath-
bogie followed Oration home without ever
looking dangerous. Light Dragoon, one
of Mack Sawyer’s, was fourth, and
would have been closer had he got a
clear run on the rails over the last fur-
long. .
Homily (3 to 1) followed up her victory
in the Canonbury Stakes by scoring com-
fortably in the race for two-year-olds. She
led early, but her jockey, Atkins, pulled
her in behind Vanquish and June until
the field reached the Leger; then she
bounded away. Bonheur de Pere, who
was hampered when going for a run on
the rails, was second and Vanquish third,
ahead of June and Aldus.
Arabia, getting the best of the start,
thanks to McMenamin, who is having a
very successful season, led throughout in
the Three- and Four-year-old Handicap.
He was well backed at sevens. St. Con-
stant and Valbeau got to within a length
of the son of Heroic at the Leger, but
near the judge he was going away again.
Arabia takes some running down when
he hits the front. Cool Joy’s fourth was
a meritorious effort. Slow to move —
as also was the well-backed Salamyne —
he finished stoutly. Billy Kerr’s filly
Atalanta was another that showed pace,
but Mark Antony was never dangerous.
Arabia raced in F. T. Cush’s colors
for the first time. The grey was bought
last season, for four figures, by a gentle-
man who punts in a fairly big way and
gets a lot of publicity in the kind of
paper that records the operations of
these gentry with awed admiration. He
tired of his purchase, and is said to have
turned him over to Cush for 400 guineas.
If so, he exhibited very poor judgment.
Arabia is as game a bit of horseflesh as
there is in Sydney, and nearly always
runs well, but has been badly “placed.”
It was rather stupid to back him against
Gold Rod, as was done in the Camellia
Stakes at Rosehill, for the chestnut, when
he condescends to gallop, is out of the
grey’s class.
Since the owner, Cooper, sold St.
Constant to Joe Cook for £l, the three-
year-old has won at Rosehill and been
second twice at Randwick. He is the
greatest bargain any Randwick trainer
has had for many a year, and he is only
entering upon what should be a very
useful career. Though no wonder, he is
fast, resolute and handy in a field ; and
offspring of Constant Son tend to im-
prove with age.
C. H. J. Schmidt owns a good horse
in Royal Step, trained at Rosehill by
Billy Ross, who won a Sydney Cup with
Gwillian G. Ridden expertly by Harold
Zensky, who was an apprentice in
Booth’s stable, Royal Step always had
his backers feeling comfortable during
the running of City Tatt.’s Handicap,
and, taking charge in the straight,
he scored comfortably from Young
Crusader and Billy Boy, with Verberry
next; Royal Step was backed from sevens
to fives. Old Lough Neagh was going
great guns at the finish, but Brown Force
again failed to give a glimpse of his
Brisbane form. He is not to be brought
to Sydney again.
Royal Step is one of the most robust-
looking horses in training. He is not
above the average in height, but in all
other respects is quite substantial enough
for the plough. Evidently he requires a
lot of racing. He is a four-year-old bay
stallion by Heroic-Roseflight; Arabia —
same age—is by Heroic-Hasty Love.
Poor Poison has had no luck at all
since he brought Winooka back from the
U.S.A. After many disappointments,
Verberry inspired him with the hope of
success in City Tatt.’s Handicap, and
Poison gave the boy, Lappin, explicit in-
structions before they went out. Lappin
is a rather intelligent youngster, and he
doesn’t ride at all badly ; but he wasn’t
quite prepared when the barrier went up
and Verberry was left last of 14. He was
in that position most of the way, but he
came through in the straight wonderfully
well. Verberry was going faster than
anything else at the finish, but the post
was too close, and he was just cut out of
a place. Very unfortunate for Poison,
as the price was 20 to 1. And then he
had to take Nabob, who had been doing
flattering gallops, out of the last race.
Jack Noud won a double with out-
siders, Bodley Head (12 to 1) and Forest-
age (20 to 1). Both were ridden by
Neale, the stable apprentice, who weighs
six stone. Neale’s father is a North
Coast jockey, and the youngster bids
fair to make a name for himself. Half-
way down. the straight Bonnie Legion
looked like winning the Flying Handicap,
but Bodley Head had to be reckoned
with. He ran on gamely under the whip
and beat the unlucky mare by a neck.
Might Not was third and Hammerhead
fourth, ahead of Gay Chou, whose
measure has been taken by the handi-
capper. The Marne moved off slowly,
and was last at the half-mile, but did
well in the straight. He finished fifth.
The Bulletin’s advice to those about
to gamble is Don’t; but, if they feel they
must, they should back three-year-olds
this season. The trouble, of course, is to
pick the right three-year-olds. Looking
over the weights for the Flying Handi-
cap, this Page decided for Mangoola,
with Beau Ercil or Bodley Head next,
Beau Ercil being in two races. Neither
Mangoola nor Beau Ercil started, so
Bodley Head became the fancy. He
is a substantially built chestnut gelding
by Bullhead-Cinnamon Leaf, and looks
like a fellow that has not quite reached
his top.
In the Club Welter Forestage was
served by his light weight. He led into
the straight, but, shifting out at the
Leger, gave Cool Spell (9 to 2) a run on
the rails. The latter made a great effort,
but Forestage got up in the last stride.
Happyland surprised by running third.
Badly served at the start, he was a long
way out of his ground commencing the
last half-mile. Bundar was boxed up on
the rails, and did not get a clear run
until the race was over. High lost his
chance at the start. He came home well,
but he is always at a disadvantage
through being placed on the outside of
his field —the effect of misbehavior at the
barrier.
* * * *
L. A. Sigsworth, from Rockhampton
(Q.): The enforced closing of betting
shops, however gratifying to city racing
clubs and newspapers, seems rank tyranny
to country-town sports who can’t go to
city races. It means to thousands that for
the first time in their lives they can’t place
a bet on the Caulfield Cup, and I sup-
pose it will be the same when the Mel-
bourne Cup comes round. To make it
worse, they are getting better wireless
descriptions and more late information
as to riders, barrier positions, track work
and weather than ever before. And pro-
tests seem just waste of ink or breath.
(Continued on page 30)
Sydney had no dogs to go to on Satur-
day night. During the week the N.S.W.
Trotting Club, which races the grey-
hounds at its Harold Park course, was
convicted of a breach of the Gaming
and Betting Act. The club is allowed
under its license to hold 52 dog meet-
ings during the year. It races on Satur-
day nights, and has conducted “trials”
on Tuesdays, the winners to make the
fields for a couple of the Saturday races.
An information laid by G. H. Bartlett
claimed that the “trials” were race meet-
ings, and the decision was against the
club, which was fined £5O0 —the mini-
mum penalty—and socked for £220 2s.
costs. It may appeal. Meanwhile, as
the law has been interpreted, it has ex-
ceeded its 52 limit and can’t race any
more this year unless the Government
issues another license or amends the Act.
And that can’t be done before the middle
of November.
* * * *
North of England newspapers and
bookmakers gave the Australians no
chance in the first Rugby League Test at
Leeds. As it happened, though without
the regular wingers—centres Reardon and
Williams filled the vacancies—they played
splendidly: led 4-2 at half-time and kept
their lead till the English five-eighth
Jenkins cut through near the line with-
out a hand on him—s-4. It stayed at
that —a try and a penalty goal to two
p.gs. “Gate,” £3942.
* * * *
“Shell”: Dead in Canada at 74, Jake
Gaudaur, the Canuck who stopped a long
trot of Australian successes in the world’s
professional sculling championship by
beating Stanbury on the Thames in 1896.
Five years later George Towns went to
Canada and recaptured the title on Lake
of the Woods.
FOR CAULFIELD.
Cup: The Trump, 1; Silver
Standard, 2 ; Manolive, 3.
Burwood Handicap: Nightguard ;
next, El Golea.
Windsor Hahdicap: Beechwood ;
next, Pamelus.
FOR MOONEE VALLEY.
Cup: Demotic ; next, Nightguard.
W. S. Cox Plate: John Wilkes;
next, Pamelus.
Dundonald Handicap: 'Sweet
Memories ; next, Counter Patrol.
FOR WARWICK FARM.
Homebush Handicap: Verberry ;
next, Cathartes or Journal.
Maiden Handicap: Artsman.
Macquarie Grove Handicap:
Cathartes or Maurice; next, Auto-
land.
Yarraville Handicap : Mangoola ;
next, Bodley Head.
Farm Stakes: Cool Joy; next,
Bengal Lancer.


Take the Nightmare
out of
Night Driving
with
BOSCH
HEADLIGHT INSERTS
Sole Agents: PYROX PTY., LTD.,
97 Palmer Street, East Sydney.
fs
"silver edce'
BRAKE LINING
I
BRAKE TROUBLES
The majority of brake troubles are due either to poor brake
lining or mal-adjustment.
Unless your brakes are adjusted so that the work is distributed equally
on all wheels then the wear is certain to be rapid and the braking poor.
If your brake material is poor in quality then all the effort and
expense of careful adjustment is wasted, for unless the lining
is consistent throughout then the wear cannot be uniform
and the brakes are soon out of correct adjustment.
Use only “RAYBESTOS’
the quality lining.
BRAKE LlNlNG—
raybestos-beeaco, ltd.,
LONDON, ENG.
Factory Rep.: JOHN ARNOLD,
G.P.O. Box 71, Melbourne, Vic
IKK
MOTORISTS!
Glaring: snn is
unpleasant and
dangerous—ward it off with a “SHAY-
DEE” Adjustable Deflector.
Will fit any car, lorry or bus'.
Or
15/-
for two
post paid.
7/6
*
each.
Postage
6d,
Sole Maker, W. L. DOREY,
Box 3261 P, G.P.0., Sydney.
Victoria Racing Club,
FLEMINGTON.
CUP WEEK
DERBY DAY . . . 30th OCTOBER
CUP DAY 2nd NOVEMBER
OAKS DAY 4th NOVEMBER
C. B. FISHER PLATE, 6th NOVEMBER
£lO,OOO ADDED TO MELBOURNE CUP
and GOLD CUP OF £2OO.
£5OOO ADDED TO THE DERBY.
Arthur V. Kewney, Secretary.
Under the Whip
On Randwick and Caulfield running,
Avenger would be a fair thing for the
Melbourne Cup with 7st. 61b., the weight
usually carried by a Derby winner, and
as he had no two-year-old record the
handicapper couldn’t have given him
more. Since Avenger wasn’t nominated,
Bristol’s claims should be considered.
Bristol is also a son of Pantheon, and
his dam (Bairn) is closely related to
Avenger's (Chatterbox); and although
not quite in the same class as Avenger
he gallops like a stayer. His second in
the Grantham Stakes with Bst. 111 b. was
a promising performance, for he finished
very fast and would certainly have got
there in another 50 yards. To win the
Melbourne Cup a staying three-year-old
doesn’t need to be high-class, when han-
dicap form is only middling, as it is
this year. Sister Olive (1921) was no
wonder. Neither was Clean Sweep
(1900).
* * * *
The owner of Talking is learning how
inconstant a thing newspaper applause
is. A Sunday paper which for weeks
devoted half its racing columns to pro-
fuse accounts of what Cooper said, what
Cooper did and what Cooper intended to
do turned on him savagely when he
denied having opened his heart to it in
criticism of the A.J.C. stipendary
stewards. His denial involved a daily
paper, and that journal also gave him
the hark from the tomb. It should be a
lesson to the young man not to talk so
much to reporters. If he weren’t new to
the game he wouldn’t be in need of such
instruction. With very few exceptions
owners and trainers are a noticeably
reticent breed.
*{* 4*
“Whisperer”: In their campaign against
subterranean s.p. merchants Brisbane
police raided a large-scale joint in South
Brisbane. They found several men and
three “silent-number” telephones. In a
kerosene-tin papers were burning. This
did not prevent the discovery that for
that day alone 628 bets from Is. to £6 had
been made on Ascot races and 112 on
Sydney events. The merchant was fined
£lOO or six months.
M.Q. and Rafferty
Though he doesn’t look quite the
boxer he was, Fred Henneberry (list. 51b.)
outpointed Tommy Vaughan (list. 91b.)
at Newtown on Thursday. Vaughan is
middleweight champion of Queensland,
and a strong lad —much stronger than
Henneberry. He made the early rounds
almost even. In the eleventh Henneberry
sidestepped a swing, and the impetuosity
of his punch carried Vaughan through
the ropes. Afterwards the Queenslander
took delivery of solid blows: a swollen
mouth began to bleed copiously in the
thirteenth, and his left cheekbone was
opened in the 15th. Henneberry had the
Queenslander groggy in this last round,
but Vaughan was still fighting feebly at
the final bell.
Ins and Outs
“Tenth Slip”: N.S.W. cricket selectors
have picked 31 men to practise for the
State eleven, and the usual yelps of pro-
test are being heard. From the names
first published McGilvray, who last
season captained the State team, was
omitted, but the omission was rectified.
McGilvray has had a bad season so far,
but the same can be said of Fingleton,
who is in the 31. Wendell Bill, with an
average so far of over 50, is also ig-
nored. Eight new hands figure in the
list, but all are metropolitan players.
The country is, however, given a ghost
of a chance in the selection of the Colts’
team which is to meet its Queensland
opposite number in Brisbane at the end
of the month. The countrymen are
Beattie, of Newcastle, who is spoken of
as an Australian Eleven possibility, and
Stapleton, of Lismore, a left-hand bats-
man and bowler, who impressed a metro-
politan side which toured the country
under McCabe. Beattie is in the Sheffield
XI to play Queensland. Others are
Barnes, Cheetham, Hynes, Jackson, Lush
and White. Plus, of course, the Test
men—Oldfield is ’keeper.
* * * *
“Hotham”: The Board of Control has
opened its heart and will in future pay its
secretary £l5O p.a. instead of £lOO. Even
that seems little enough for the heavy
work laid on the official’s shoulders
when a team for England is being
organised and the practically continuous
trot for the entire season when an over-
seas side is touring Australia. The
present secretary goes to England as
manager with the Australian team next
season. In his absence Harold Heydon,
of the N.S.W. association, will carry on.
* * * *
“Nets”: The Westralian cricketers who
ar,e to tour the Eastern States will get the
benefit of some intensive coaching in
Sydney from George Garnsey, the
N.S.W. official coach. Garnsey, one of
the best left-hand bowlers N.S.W. has
produced, has been a big success handling
the young entry in N.S.W., and should
help the Westerners a lot. He will have
them in hand for three days before they
“This’ll teach yer t’ knock one of us fightin' O'Flahertys about!”
begin their match with N.S.W. on
November 25.
* * , * *
“Tenth Slip”: Sydney cricket has been
enlivened by a strike of umpires—
officials of the Eastern Suburbs Associa-
tion. These martyrs to a popular obses-
sion get ss. for a long and often argu-
mentative afternoon, and struck for an-
other bob a nob. There is something in
their claim. Junior cricket is not far
removed from football in its attitude
towards umpires, and the arbiters run
greater risks than their brethren who
officiate in Test matches. Then there are
fares and the laundering of their white
nightgowns, an expense they must meet
from their own pockets.
* * * *
“Moore Park”: A committee of Syd-
ney C.G. members which has been trying
for greater representation on the Board
of Trustees is furious with the old gentle-
men who constitute that body for throw-
ing out its application. Also the com-
mittee desires that the C.G. be con-
verted into a sort of home from home
for members, with a dancing pavilion,
squash courts, bowling greens, a library
and reading-room. This also has been
frozen out by the old boys, who prob-
ably fear a demand for a creche for the
benefit of lady ticket-holders.
* * * *
“Aigburth”: Advices from England
show that Sydney players Mudge and
Walsh who joined Sir Julien Cahn’s
private team had a good season Mudge
scored over !700 runs and Walsh took
oS g sht“whTc a il
included Hird (Australia) Constantine,
Martindale and Headley (West Indies),
and Root, the one-time Worcester bowler.
toon * t *ii/- j
Bumper : The 1889 issue of Wisden
£ fCr i r fv 0 t 0 t r rCe + matCheS by
the 1888 Australian team against Eng-
land as the three great test matches.”
SeemS t° fiav® keen the first time
o- sed t for ? uch B , ames (B -
13/10/ 37). Similar tussles out here were
known as “combination” matches,
although James Lilly white’s Annual for
1893 in its account of Lord Sheffield’s
team (1891-92) called them “tests.” There
were differences of opinion as to what
constituted “combination” matches until
C. P. Moody, the S.A. journalist, brought
out his A ustralian Cricket and Cricketers
in 1894. His list of “tests” has been uni-
versally accepted.
Nineteenth Hole
“Huon”: Fresh from his disqualifica-
tion in the Australian open champion-
ship, Len Nettlefold made no mistake in
the Tasmanian open tourney, which he
won with two rounds of 72. The South
Australian Toogood was three strokes
worse.
*** * '
“Hamilton”: Alex. Murray, who won
and lost the M.L. open championship
the other day (B. 29/9/’37), did so be-
cause of a hidebound interpretation of
the rules. On the last green he was two
strokes ahead of two opponents, with only
a short putt to go. He lifted his ball,
which was in the road of the opponent
playing his stroke, and when he dropped
it again it hit his putter. This made no
difference in the position of the ball, but
the wiseacres up above counted it as a
“practice stroke” and disqualified him.
* * * *
I n Sydney the country golf tea P^ s
miership went to South-west N.S.W.,
which finished ahead of Northern Riveis
by five matches to two. Not surprising,
™ce se Y en o£ thc winning side are on
ow mar ks five on four and two on
.. Senex .. ; xh * e flrst c * hamp ionship of
the newly _ formed N g w senior Golfers'
society was won at Kensington by
f" "tnfthwtl
merepupj the 55 59 years class,
j n w j 1 j c f l he a | so j ed dle Held. Class 60-
64 went (0 Sydney Jones and class 65 _69
to N. H. Pope, while Wallis got home in
the 70 . 74 division . f here was a
fina l tourney for players over 80, but
that K ruschen feeling was not pro-
nounced enough to i° ducc the several
members qualified to compete. A dinner
rounded off a perfect day. Bathchairs
were ordered for midnight
* * ° *
“Sandringham”: The Victorian women’s
country golf championship was won by
Miss B. Ramsay, of Colac, who beat the
former holder, Miss Watson, of Warr-
nambool, 6 and 4, at Victoria club links.
Miss Ramsay was solid and steady and
profited by Miss Watson’s errors.
Racquet and Bawl
“Kooyong”; Dates for the American
and German tennis visits have been
fixed. The Yanks make a start in the
Victorian championships from Decem-
ber 1-11; the Germans show in Bris-
bane on December 17 and 18." On
December 16-17-18 America meets Aus-
tralia in Sydney, and the Germans tackle
Australia, also in Sydney, on December
27-28 ; then follows America v. Aus-
tralia in Adelaide on January 13-14-15.
The Americans clbse their tour by show-
ing in the Australian championships in


a
KING THE ROAD”
r ?
Cowles & Dunn
SPECIALISTS IN
HIGH-GRADE
TROUT, GAME FISH
AND GENERAL
FISHING TACKLE.
Sydney Agents for Gillies’ Trout Specialities; Hardy’s Rods, Reels,
Lines, Landing Nets, Casts, etc.; Bartleet’s Celebrated' “Hexacane”
and “Flycraft” Rods; Wm. Southam Trout and Game Fish Rods;
Wet and Dry Flies in all Popular Patterns. Illustrated Catalogue
Post Free. Separate Catalogue issued for Game Fish Tackle.
Please mention “The Bulletin.”
71 KING STREET,
'PHONE: M 3388. SYDNEY.
'A
Here’s DM job
you won’t have
to do
No more recharging of a heavy accumulator
—with consequent blank periods while this
is being done—if your new set is "AIR CELL
OPERATED."
Fitted with an Eveready Air Cell, which with
normal use gives you over a year of uninter*
rupted reception—does not deteriorate when not in use but main-
tains constant voltage at the correct level for perfect reception,
your radio needs no attention at all and is no more trouble than
an all-electric set. . . .
you buy an
AIR CELL
OPERATED RADIO
@ Air Cell Oper-
ated models are
available under the
following well-known
brands:
BRITON ECLIPSE
TASMA S.T.C.
PARAMOUNT KRIESLER
GENALEX LEKMEK
WELDON BREVILLE
STROMBERG-SYMFONA
CARLSON VELCO
ARISTOCRAT STERLING
CE.S.M.) ZENITH
WESTINGHOUSE
AIRZONE
rA
XSEA4A
EQUIPPED WITH AN
EVEREADY
AIRCELL
FREE-
TO COUNTRY READERS
Send to-day for our big
32-page book on the
Eveready Air Cell and
Air Cell operated radio
sets. Sent free on appli-
cation. Fill in and post
the coupon at right
NOW.
The Ever Ready Co. (Aust.) Pty. Ltd.,
Harcourt Parade,
ROSEBERY, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Dear Sirs,
Please send me your 32-page book on the Eveready
Air Ceil and Air Cell operated radio sets. It is
understood that this will place me under no
obligation whatsoever.
NAME ... .....
ADDRESS
@ THE EVER READY CO. (Aust.) PTY. LTD., SYDNEY
Adelaide January 22-31. The Germans
appear in Melbourne against an Aus-
tralian team on January 7-8, and then
go to Adelaide for the national cham-
pionships, with a farewell match in Perth
on February 4-5.
* * * *
“Susie Swattit”: Dorothy Bundy
and Dorothy Workman (Alice Marble,
also invited, couldn’t come along) are to
be in Sydney on November 1 in time to
play in the N.S.W. championships. Nor-
man Brookes has arranged the trip,
which, it is hoped, will be more success-
ful than his attempt to get a team of
English girls to visit us.
* * * *
“Rev. Knucklebone”: N.S.W. hard-
courts authorities are up in arms over
the new regulations limiting the exploita-
tion of leading players by clubs and asso-
ciations. The ban on night tournaments
is particularly objected to, as is the pro-
hibition laid on the junior players of the
coaching classes from appearing in inter-
district competitions. The question of
whether it is good for individual
players to be worked to death all ovet
the country providing profits for clubs
and associations —and the hardcourters
are the chief offenders in this respect—
doesn’t seem worthy of anyone’s attention.
Miscellaneous
“Fitzcray”: Gordon Coventry, now
retired from Victorian football, has been
presented with 100 guineas in acknow-
ledgment of his unique services to Col-
lingwood. In the hierarchy of Colling-
wood, Coventry has ranked only second
to Jack Ryder, who, in the natural
course of things, will also be laying
down his sceptre one of these days.
* * * *
“Fitzcray”: The Victorian Rugby
Union premiership was won by Foot-
scray, which downed University 5-3.
Footscray put up a record by taking the
reserve and third-grade premierships as
well. But the V.R.U. would do well to
abolish the practice of holding finals,
challenge finals and grand finals ad
nauseam. They drag out the season
beyond all reason.
* * * *
“Dole”: Sydney Rugby League clubs
show themselves strongly in favor of
abolishing the “retention fund” started
a couple of seasons ago to help out-of-
work Sydney players going to the coun-
try for jobs. One of the delegates said
bluntly that the fund had created “an
undesirable type of loafer,” and had
been a source of discord and jealousy
among players and clubs.
* * * *
“Spike”: England is having a lot of
trouble raking up the team of 16
athletes it is proposed to send to Aus-
tralia, distance being the great drawback.
So far 10 men, including three A.A.A.
championship holders, have consented to
come: Holmes (100 and 120), Robert-
son (100 and 220), Duncan (100 and
long jump), Roberts, Handley and Mc-
Cabe (half-milers), Eccles (miler), Ward
(mile and three miles), Weatherill (three
miles and six miles) and Norris (mara-
thon. Holmes, Ward, Roberts and Hand-
ley are the pick of the bunch.
* * * *
“Brass Addler”: The people running
the Empire Games in Sydney have
budgeted for a loss. Expenditure is cal-
culated at £12,250 and receipts at £7150.
Passages for overseas competitors will
cost close on £7OOO, and the Empire vil-
lage at the Showground, where the
visitors will be lodged and fed, over
£4OOO. Receipts will come mainly from
admission charges, with odd amounts
from programmes, etc. Souvenir season
tickets at a guinea are expected to bring
in only £750 ; with efficient handling they
should return a much larger sum.
* * * *
“Splash”: Sydney health authorities
have again been complaining about the
Domain baths. Every overseas swimmer
who comes to Sydney is amazed to find
this village ducicpond used for impor-
tant swimming events. The City Council
has been asked a dozen times to con-
struct modern baths in the Domain
proper, where there are suitable sites.
An agitation to that end is afoot again.
* * * *
“Blade”. N.S.W. rowing heads have
interfered with coach Keary’s plan of
having the Australian crew for the
Empiad trained for six weeks on the
Nepean. The crew will now put in three
or four weeks on the Parramatta and
then begin the business all over again in
the fresh water of the Nepean. The
coach has also been appointed sole
selector and coach for the 1938 Tas-
manian King’s Cup crew. At present in
Hobart, he will attend to the Australian
eight from mid-December to the end of
January in Sydney and on the Nepean.
* * * *
“Hawthorn”: At the request of the
other States Victoria, this year’s host for
the King’s Cup eight-oar race, has
changed the date from April 23 to May
7. Also the lower Yarra course of 2\
miles will' be the venue, though a couple
of the States have objected. There is no
doubt that for future races in Victoria
some other course will have to be chosen.
The Barwon, where the G.P.S. races are
held on alternate years, suggests itself.
•¥ *f*
“Toowong”: Queensland’s scheme for
improving the State’s chances in inter-
state rowing is not being unanimously
welcomed by the clubs. In essentials it
provides for early selection of a com-
posite crew in place of the old method
of sending the winning club crew in the
State eights to the King’s Cup fixture.
Country clubs play a big part in Queens-
land rowing. Men selected from these
clubs for <the composite eight would
have to leave their jobs for some weeks’
training in Brisbane, and that isn’t a
feasible proposition.
* * * *
“Bias”: For a long time the Inter-
national Bowling Board, composed of
English, Welsh, Scottish and Irish dele-
gates, refused recognition to “colonial”
bowling bodies. After long recrimina-
tion, Australia, Canada, South Africa
and M.L. were admitted to the fold. But
they were allowed only one delegate
each, while the old countries had three.
After years of turmoil the Dominions’
representation was raised to two apiece,
with the proviso that the second dele-
gate must be nominated by the Big Four.
Now the 1.8. has increased the repre-
sentation of its members to four, leav-
ing the Dominion spokesmen at the
same figure as before. The Dominions
are talking secesh.


SUNDRY
SHOWS
“There Goes My Girl” and
“Slave Ship."
Gene Raymond and Ann Sothern in the former;
Warner Baxter and Wallace Beery in the other .
On the current bill at Sydney Plaza,
and providing striking contrast.
“There Goes My Girl” is first-rate
rapid-fire light comedy. Dialogue is
snappy and clever in the American wise-
cracking manner. Smartly acted, it goes
with a bang.
A skit on modern American newspaper
life —which seems, if anything, to have
speeded up since Mark Twain got a
berth on the “Morning Glory and John-
son County War-Whoop”—it postulates
an editor prepared to do anything to
keep his smart girl reporter on the staff.
And girl’s engaged to marry bright and
handsome young reporter.
How the editor for a time succeeds in
his fell designs makes up the body of it.
His machinations —mighty childlike, but
effective—have man chasing girl and girl
chasing man alternately and intensely.
Their wedding’s interrupted by a little
shooting in the church; ’groom chases
bride through streets, bride calls on
police, and when the pair separately get
away the scene they leave behind has
developed into an all-in fight.
So it races on ; pace increasing all the
time ; not a foot too much of it; and
devilish clever in some aspects—such, for
instance, as the atmospheric suggesting
that there is going to be a murder before
it’s all over. Ann Sothern is a tiptop
little comedy actress, and she’s well sup-
ported.
As bright as they make ’em.
“Slave Ship” is just about as sombre
as they make ’em. Very strong in plot,
it harks back to the closing days of slave-
trading from Africa. Mostly set aboard
a slaver, it leaves a murky impression
of having all been enacted at night.
Naturally, with the showing of slaves
between decks and the getting rid of
this cargo in emergency, there are power-
ful “strong” scenes in it. Baxter is age-
ing for romantic-hero parts, but can
pass muster ; Beery is as good as ever
and has an excellent part.
But it is a long film ; it is a grievously
padded film ; and for more than half-way
it does drag.
In this lies a pointed comment on
one aspect of present-day film-making.
The general run of picture-show pro-
grammes are two even parts, with in-
terval between. The first half can be
a support picture of any length ; it hasn’t
to be constructed to a time spread, be-
cause it can be eked out with shorts.
Therefore, it can be just as long as it
needs to be and no more ; and when it
happens to be made out of the right sort
of stuff —as “There Goes My Girl” is—
it can be a clinker.
The big main picture is under the
necessity—more often than not the dis-
advantage—of having to go the distance,
purely for programme purposes. Mostly
the result is padding, as in “Slave Ship.”
Reduced by a third this could be a tell-
ing drama.
Pick of Sydney Shows
“Over She Goes” Bright stage show; George Gee; Royal
“Wings of the Morning” . . Superb technicolor romance; Embassy
“The Last of Mrs. Cheyney” ... Smart, classy comedy; St. James
“It's Love I’m After” Backstage comedy; Regent
“Maytime” Musical; Liberty
“It’s All Yours.”
Madeleine Carroll, Mischa Auer and
Francis Lederer.
In this farce made out of yet another
will Madeleine makes a bid for fame as
a comedienne.
Miss Carroll is very charming, very
charming indeed. Most fetching, in fact.
She can wear the ordinary sort of rig-
outs affected by typists with a grace war-
Bright spot of the week: Mischa Auer —the bool he fight, eh!—in “It’s All
Yours,” at Sydney State.
ranted to make junior clerks go off the
deep end with great enthusiasm, if the
senior clerks didn’t beat them to it.
That is, if there were enough Miss
Carrolls to go round.
Her tears, too, are supremely touch-
ing. When her face begins to twitch up
like that it is all a strong man can do
to resist getting up and going out for a
dri,nk.
But she is not a comedienne. Let it
go at that.
Luckily for the farce —the main cur-
rent item at Sydney State—the cast does
include a comedian. A decidedly unusual
one.
By name Mischa Auer, he is perfectly
cast as a baron who makes marriage for
money not so much a fine art as a care-
ful business. The best things in the pic-
ture are his expositions of his outlook
on matrimony.
The lesson he gives Miss Carroll on
the use of scent and other lines of
approach makes even that young lady
seem to be enacting a comedy role. His
struggle against his better judgment when
it turns out that Miss Carroll really has
no fortune for him, his capitulation to
Cupid, which staggers nobody so much
as himself, and his general behavior in
this trying crisis are the finest of comedy,
and such portions as his bullfighting are
capital farce.
Even in his bits some of the situa-
tions are heavily strained for laughs, but
it would be mild gruel without him. It
arises out of a will left by a benevolent
old codger who endorses the opinion
strongly held by Miss Carroll as his
secretary that his son should be married
to her. So he leaves her his oof, cutting
son off with a dollar.
The rest of it concerns the bringing of
son to his senses, in which state, it is
postulated, he will be worthy of girl
and oof. The Baron, of course, is
brought in and chiefly used for the pur-
pose of exciting jealousy. He is so
effective that by the time it’s finished,
and Miss Carroll and the young man are
embracing, most onlookers will be pre-
pared to agree that she has made a
rotten pick.
“The High Command.”
Lionel Atwill and Lucie Mannheim.
Now that Sir Guy Standing has gone
west there is no film actor better suited
to ramrod-and-buckram military parts
than Lionel Atwill.
In this English film he is commandant
of a West African station. A dark spot
in his past —he shot a man in self-
defence and reported him killed in
action —crops up to haunt him. To
avoid a slur on his daughter’s name he
allows himself to be assassinated, thereby
also clearing a young officer falsely
accused of murder.
There is a court-martial scene, very
realistically done; the West African
flavor has been made to seem authentic
and the acting of subsidiary parts is of a
much higher standard than used to be the
case in London productions.
Miss Mannheim, as usual, is cast as a
martyred wife, a role in which she is very
proficient. But it is Atwill’s film through-
out a series of logically-linked and inter-
esting incidents. Unlike Standish, who
let his generals and colonels have softer
moments, Atwill never weakens; is
never irresolute —always the man of
iron. At Sydney State.
“Louis-Farr Fight.”
This notable battle started to be
fought over again at both Lyric and
Cameo, Sydney, last week.
It is a good fight film, exceptionally
clear and running over the whole 15
rounds in an almost blow-for-blow depic-
tion that takes over half an hour to reel
off. Boxing experts might find that a
right cross is missing from the seventh
or a left hook from the fourteenth, but
the general run of fight spectators will
find it fully satisfying.
It will, of course, start 10,000 argu-
ments before it goes into the discard.
As far as even the best of such films can
enable anyone to judge, it might be
thought by many that Farr just about
won. In the film he seems to be taking
the fight to Louis most of the way, with
some terrific onslaughts included in the
attack.
Louis seems to have the better de-
fence ; his neatness in turning Farr’s
heavy leads aside is pretty to look. at;
also his own flickering leads to the face.
Throughout Farr seems to look the more
dangerous, without himself looking at all
likely to be floored.
Naturally, it’s all a thin substitute for
the original. There is never any impres-
sion that they are much more
shadows fighting, and the dramatic sus-
pense is, of course, almost completely
removed by the onlooker knowing the
outcome in advance.
Still, it’s very entertaining ; one of the
cleanest fights ever seen ; and leaving a
strong impression of how well they can
control a fight in America.
At Sydney Capitol.
At such picture-show houses as the
Liberty, the Embassy and the St. Janies,
Sydney, there’s usually something on
polished lines. The aim is high-class
films, and they are pretty consistent
pickers.
Other addresses Mayfair, Lyceum,
State, Prince Edward, Regent, Plaza-
show topnotch pictures from time to
time, but on the whole there’s an element
of surprise about their bills: the picture
may be a corker or it may be a crooner.
They believe in variety, though not all
to the same extent. They don’t seem to
be actuated by cocksureness in knowing
what the public wants and giving it to
them. If a picture flops, off it comes ;
if it’s a success, it is given a run.
That, at any rate, is how, on the whole,
they strike this film-taster.
But at the Capitol!
Here consistency is the watchword. At
this address they have no doubt what-
ever about what their public wants, and
they give it to them.
A bill lasts one week, and the show
has its regulars every night—and day.
These know to a fadeout just what sort
of fare they are going to taste, and they
like it.
It is in melodrama the Capitol special-
ises, with a good leaven of hearty farce.
Melodrama always did run to violence
of action —that goes, of course, for farce,
too —and the Capitol can be relied on
for more violent action to the foot than
any other address in Sydney.
In the current picture, “Born Reck-
less,” for instance, anything up to half
a hundred motor-cars are smashed; one
taxi-service owner has a steel-plated car
specially built for wrecking opposition
cars. Sudden death occurs in these
“accidents” and is always hovering
around in the muzzle of a gun. A petrol
lorry, loaded and prepared to explode
and burst into flames when it crashes
into the taxi-service with which the hero
sides, is diverted in the nick of time—
by the hero, of course. There is double-
dyed villainy, noble heroism, love tender,
true and triumphant. Villainy gets it in
the neck ; virtue is rewarded.
Possibly, according to the standards
by which melodrama is judged, this
example might not be rated front-rank
by true addicts ; but it is typical.
As for the audience, anybody who be-
lieves that yelling out to the hero “Hey!
Look out! He’s just behind you!” is
something that went out with Bland
Holt should go along to the Capitol and
be educated.
Rubinstein.
Arthur Rubinstein said his final fare-
wells to Sydney at three concerts last
week—the first an orchestral affair at
which he made only one appearance, in
the Tschaikowsky B Flat Minor Concerto
•—and in matinee and evening recitals at
which the pianist dispensed with pro-


ecrel
of Gordon's
Quality
costly
process of
distillation c-
rectiffcation
no other Gin
possesses
jgSUk ~^k'h
Gordon's
Gin
GENUINE
LONDON GIN
IMPORTED
The Co nvenience
of a Current Account
m
%
A
mm
V. •>
A Current Account is of equal
assistance to both the housewife
and the business woman. It affords, by the use of cheques,
a simple, convenient and safe medium for payment of
accounts and it has many other practical advantages.
It may, of course, be used as a savings account and as
surplus funds accumulate these may be transferred to an
interest bearing deposit.
The Bank's experienced staff is always pleased to discuss
and advise regarding any financial arrangements which it
is desired to make.
UNION BANK
OF AUSTRALIA
LIMITED
Established 1837.
Incorporated in England 1880
Branches throughout Australia and New Zealand
London Office'. 71 Cornhill, E.C.3
grammes and proposed to play as the
spirit moved him at the moment.
The afternoon show fell on a grey,
bleak day, and the audience didn’t
exactly fill the Town Hall.
A spot of brightening-up seemed to
be indicated, so Rubinstein, after mur-
muring something about the Bach Toc-
cata in F, smote the piano with both
hands one tremendous wallop which was
heard at Bourke, Albury and Tweed
Heads.
Waiting to see if the instrument would
survive, and to allow the reverberations
to die away, which took quite a time, he
then conducted a series of contrapuntal
races, right hand against left —result,
dead heat and all records broken.
Next came the “Appassionata,” which
also was surged and thundered through
a good three minutes quicker than any
first-class musician had previously
achieved—though this was more due to
skipping the repeat of the penultimate
allegro than to defying traffic-cop Beet-
hoven. Chopin, Debussy, Prokofieff and
Albeniz followed —most outstanding the
Debussy “Ondine,” in which new
beauties were revealed.
The night concert drew a bigger
crowd, and Rubinstein, in his most vigor-
ous and urgent mood, plunged into the
“Waldstein.”
The storm-wind in this used to sough
along at a mere 60 m.p.h., but Rubin-
stein straightway evolves a regular 100
m.p.h. hurricane, and even this fearful
bat seems to increase as the tempest
gathers fury. The lyric melody in the
middle section, backgrounded by rolling
arpeggios, is generally interpreted with
a dash of sentiment, but Rubinstein re-
serves tenderness for his moderns. His
singer presses on busily to the furious
finale.
Followed two very intellectual exposi-
tions of Brahms-playing—one of the
intermezzos and the Rhapsody in B
Minor, the last-named done with as much
freedom and spontaneity as one would
imagine Johannes himself to infuse into
it. Of all composers Rubinstein seems
most sib to Brahms—Brahms and De-
bussy. But there was to be no Debussy
this night. Instead, strange strains of
Poulenc, Bela Bartok, a worried frenzy
by De Falla and a frightfully difficult
excerpt from Stravinsky’s “Petrouchka.”
To wind up there were Lisztian sugar-
plums, the Twelfth Rhapsody and the
Liebestraum, both played with some-
thing very like scornful good humor.
Melbourne Symphony
Orchestra.
Principal incident of the musical bom-
bardment of Melbourne last week was
Arthur Rubinstein’s attack, in conjunc-
tion with the Melbourne Symphony
Orchestra, on the Rachmaninoff Con-
certo No. 2 in C Minor at the Town
Hall.
Rubinstein caracolled and galloped
through this piece with such finesse, alter-
nating with tremendous vigor, that the
audience rose at him at the close and
had to be reminded by the little pianist
that the orchestra under Heinze’s direc-
tion had had a part in the success of
the offensive.
Another important item was “Flour-
ish for a Coronation,” by Vaughan Wil-
liams, a fanfare of trumpets with subsi-
diary noises raised to the nth degree of
intensity, the hailing of the trumpets
being passed from one end of the orches-
tra to the other with such skill that they
appear to sound at one moment as if
in the open air, and then as if coming
from the deep nave of a cathedral.
Mingled with the trumpeting are words
which were sung and shouted by the
massed forces of the Melbourne Phil-
harmonic. Henri Penn was at the piano.
Herbert Howells’s “Puck’s Menuett”
was a pleasant modern fragment, and
Delius’s “Walk to the Paradise Garden”
was a grateful little miniature. They
came after the performance of the
Eighth Symphony, which filled the first
part of the programme. Beethoven’s
tremendous classic is a standard test for
conductors. Bernard Heinze came out of
it with flying colors.
Nina Mae McKinney.
Imported at heaven knows what ex-
pense, Nina Mae McKinney made her
bow in person to a Sydney audience at
the Tivoli last week.
She is, of course, that highly-effective
piece of Harlem femininity who played
opposite Robeson in “Sanders of the
River.” In her intrusion into this vaude-
ville bill she’s accompanied by two other
male Harlem representatives at pianos,
and sings a brief batch of songs of the
negro spiritual order.
The first of these efforts, on the night
this Showman dropped in, was beauti-
fully sung, though she uses a stage micro-
phone, an instrument that’s surely an
abomination before the Lord.
The main merit of the turn is her per-
sonal charm. She is very light-colored
Harlem, and very lovely; petite and
polished to her fingertips. Nothing
spirited about her turn; all grace, re-
straint and feminine appeal.
The boys at the pianos with her are
livelier. It would be an improved turn
if there was more from the three of
them. The programme works up to them
as the night’s feature, and there’s not
enough of them to satisfy the expecta-
tion.
For the rest, the bill is vaudeville and
songandance, with some bright spots,
among these a chap on a one-wheeled
bike, a fat comedy musician and a
whistler.
Also Mo, in great form. Plenty of
Mo.
One turn on this night was given the
bird —not one of Mo’s turns, of course.
Not very pleasant for the recipients, no
doubt, but a notable contribution to the
general vaudeville atmosphere.
The house was crowded to the doors.
Mosman Musicomedy.
Mosman Musical Soc. generally puts
on a good show, but it excelled itself
with “Hit the Deck” at the Cremorne
Orpheum.
The lighthearted romance side was
well looked after by Molly Brown as
owner of a sailors’ coffee-house and
Colin Peebles as the sailor-lad, but
comedy was the highlight. Harry Nott
as a gawky, loose-jointed tar almost stole
the show ; Zanita Cannis as the negress
servant, although a little stiff at first,
soon found the wind and sailed home a
close second.
Marie Ryan made a slight role con-
spicuous by her delightful warbling of
“September in the Rain.” Eadith Humby
sang a few bars, displaying a fine voice ;
she disappeared too soon.
The ballet was easy to watch ; the lasses
swung hips in natty sailor turnouts, then
did some pretty work in flimsy green
limitations. Later they turned out in
Chinese costumes that never saw China
and fluttered daintily around to the
accompaniment of whirling parasols.
Produced by Redge Carey, the show
swung from Plymouth to China and back
again with snappiness and light, effer-
vescent humor. Amateur theatrics at
their most entertaining.
Farce in Adelaide.
An unusual (and unexpectedly suc-
cessful) Adelaide item is Harold Hob-
day, from M.L., who, aided by his infant
daughter and an assortment of local
amateurs, has been really packing the
Tivoli with old-style farce.
Heysen at Home.
Hans Heysen has one of his unusual
one-man shows at the Society of Arts
gallery in Adelaide.
It illustrates his manner from an
ancient spring-and-bluebells study in
Scotland, through the eras of farmyard
study, of gum-trees, of fruit and flowers,
right up to his recent concentration on
the stark mountains of Centralia; also a
ploughing study of the type which has
won a Wynne Prize.
The whole collection is masterly.
The S.A. National Gallery has added
to its collection of Heysens a large water-
color of turkeys among young gums
and an oil of the sun-parched Arkba
peaks.
Melrose Prize.
S.A. Society of Arts awarded the
annual Alex. Melrose prize for portrait-
painting (which latterly is not restricted
to local painters) to a powerful
“Airman” by Will Rowell.
As the Victorian also had a large
landscape bought by the Nat. Gallery of
Adelaide, he had a profitable show.


Ouh. /^ak&L^au/*
A 7
WE COULD
HAVE
FED THE
MULTITUDE
’ xf :■
. . . with our daily bread consumption!
40,000 loaves a year —over 100 a day—my. what a
lot I White bread, brown bread Vienna loaves raisin
loaves, all are there Of course the Victoria Palace is
the largest and most modern hotel in Australia Last
year, we served more than a million meals Tariffs are
reasonable too—4/- to 7/6 Single room 8/- to 16/.
Double room
1
201-229 LIT. COLLINS STREET MELBOURNE. C 1 (Next Town Hall)
VICTORIA PALACE
Missing Friends.
NORMAN ARCHIBALD.
IF NORMAN ARCHIBALD, a son of James
Archibald, late of Smeaton, in Victoria, and
a nephew of John Archibald, late of Ballarat,
in Victoria, last heard of in Queensland, com-
municates with the undermentioned Company
he will hear something to his advantage.
THE BALLARAT TRUSTEES, EXECUTORS
& AGENCY COMPANY, LIMITED,
101 Lydiard Street North, Ballarat.
A. R. HAMILTON, Manager.
ttfMANI4
1 FOR AN Inr.
%iida^
Consider the charm of Tasmania the "air-
conditioned" State. There you will find relaxa-
tion and interest in new scenery mountain,
lake and valley. Historic buildings, too in
fact, an attraction for every holiday adventure.
Illustrated literature, detaits of liner sailings,
fares and accommodation, on request.
TASMANIAN GOVERNMENT
TOURIST BUREAU
MELBOURNE - - - The Block, Collins Street
SYDNEY - - - - 4 Martin Place, opp. G.P.O.
NEWCASTLE 24 Hunter Street
ADELAIDE - - 12 Pirie Street
PERTH - - - A.M.P. Bldg., William Street
BRISBANE 196 Adelaide Street
HOBART - - - Macquarie and Murray Streets
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
The weather was unkind for the first
garden party at Admiralty House given
by the Governor-General and Lady
Gowrie. The gardens which cling to
Kirribilli Point are always liable to be
smacked by a strong wind. Last Tuesday
they were at the mercy of a raging south-
easterly that ice-like smote the long
verandah where the guests were queuing
to greet Lord Gowrie. The way was
punctuated with gold-braided uniforms.
General Anderson, Lord Ranfurly,
Colonel Maguire and Captain Bracegirdle
were noted en route. For the half-hour
or so of greetings Lord Gowrie had as
windscreen a little
marquee. After the presentations you
joined the company on the sloping lawns,
having missed the smile Lady Gowrie
would have put into the afternoon. She,
alas! is still recovering from her tonsil
operation.
Somebody said there were nearly 1000
chairs placed about the grounds, but this
Letter saw nobody who wasn’t at the
perpendicular, or as perpendicular as the
storm would permit. A few misguided
girls had worn large hats, and they
walked for ever like mariners bent to the
gale. Some loving hands had arranged
a sitting-out tent or two with tables set
with bowls of flowers, but they and the
rose garden, too, with the exception of
a hurried glance, were neglected. How-
ever, it still contrived to be a nice party.
There was an undercurrent of laughter
about the day, and the rain was merciful
and did not drop on the just and the
perfect till everybody was crowding into
the tea tents. Here the lilac was all gentle
fragrance and loveliness. The strelitzia,
too, raised a handsome head. All through
the afternoon a band played.
Some of the women came so furred
you’d have thought they had stepped out
of “Lost Horizon.” Still, it must be hard
to leave a cargo of silver fox, mink or
sable at home. The Hugh Denison and'
Walder ladies chained the gaze with their
trophies of the chase. So did Mrs.
Charlie Lloyd Jones with her sable.
General Anderson’s wife wore a very
smart navy outfit. Mrs. Swinson’s black
hat had primroses at the front of the
crown ; with her came son Ryder. Mrs.
Wilfred Fairfax brought her friendly
smile and daughter Mrs. Peter Moore,
whose white sharkskin coat was worn
over a frock of blue-and-white sheer. Her
shady hat was turquoise. Mrs. Gordon
Brady caped her green angora suit in
fur. Newly-engaged Suzanne Stogdale
was there, gay tulips on her brown frock.
The Harry Budges were among the
guests, and John Lane Mullins walked
the lawn with daughter Barbara.
Mrs. Hugh Poate had cherry wings in
her black hat, and Mrs. Garnet Halloran,
who walked with her doctor husband,
was trig in brown. Mrs. Dundas Allen
wore navy, her large hat a temptation to
the breeze. Mrs. Hope Gibson was an-
other who went clad in the popular dark
blue. Alexander Gordon’s lady, very
alert in black, was busy answering
inquiries about Anne. Margaret Adams,
the flying girl, cleverly piloted her large
halo hat of brown baku into the tea tent,
scathless and untouched by wind or rain.
The Mayoress’s reception in honor of
Lady Wakehurst was the big party of
Monday afternoon. . Even the roar of
George-street’s traffic was dented by the
click of sharply-closed limousine doors
as smartly-frocked women emerged at
the Town Hall steps. The flowers were
a glory—hats a regular Hallelujah
chorus.
On the grey blur that was the harbor
on Saturday the white sails of the yachts
spread' pensively. There seemed just
enough breeze to stir the pennants to
languid gaiety, and the grounds of the
Yacht Club at Kirribilli, usually a bright
pattern of summer frock and hat, were
left deserted. All the guests gathered
on the widp verandahs and watched the
progress of the hardy mariners through
the wide windows. Lord Gowrie came
by launch from Admiralty House, and
then went out in the Koonya. He was
received by the Commodore Milson
couple, her hat and coat of soft woollen
in cosmos-pink tones; her furs silver
fox. Captain and Mrs. Meyer and Mrs.
Don Taylor were also in this group. Mrs.
Meyer carried two sprays of orchids tied
with red satin ribbons, and Mrs. Don
Taylor pinned a spray of the same flower
in the cocoa-brown of her squirrel cape.
Orchids were in profusion. They
came from Richard Old’s garden. They
were in long sprays on the mantel in the
drawing-room, and there was a small
spray for each woman guest at the vice-
regal table. The Chief Justice Jordans
and the Group-Captain Coles were in
this company. The military came in a
small group, in which were the Keith
Morrises, the Pat Manleys, the Lorenzos
and the Brackpools. Major Boyle, too,
up from Tasmania, was in festive mood.
Nancy Welsh, from Orange, wore a
scarlet cravat with her navy outfit. Mrs.
Toby Browne brought daughter Nuala.
The Ken Priors were among the gazers.
Mrs. Cohen was in a party that included
Mrs. Penrose and Mrs. Baume. The
round-the-world-in-a-yacht Harold Nos-
siters were among the pointed-out. Mrs.
Ivo Clark and Melbourne newspaper-
woman Bunchy Wheeler were others.
Captain and Mrs. Livesay, from Burma,
told of their new yacht, to be called
Megala, after the Burmese god of the
seas.
Sydney is becoming sophisticated. In
New York and London it is a fairly
usual thing for singers to give their re-
citals in one of the big hotels, but in
Sydney it is almost unheard of. Alice
Prowse is practically pioneering by hold-
ing her recital in the banquet room of
the Australia Hotel. This is dated for
Friday night, when Alice will raise her
dramatic mezzo in a programme of
Brahms, Purcell and Richard Strauss.
Baritone Fraser Coss is the assisting
artist. Singer’s husband, James Brash,
and Lute Drummond are the accom-
panists. Then, as the party is an Aus-
tralian one, the billy will be boiled, and
the night end over cups of tea and coffee.
Lupton photograph.
Rain spoiled Randwick as a dress
parade on Saturday and did not induce
the visitors to the gardens of Elwatan
at Castle Hill to linger about the paths,
although the orchids and pansies were
at their best. The money raised from
this afternoon goes to help the expenses
of the Camp Fire Ball. The fair at
Graythwaite, North Sydney’s Red Cross
convalescent hospital, contended bravely
with the bad day. William Morris
Hughes made the opening speech while
his Dame stood by holding her presen-
tation basket of flowers. Mayoress
Parkes was president of the committee.
An active worker for the success was
Mrs. Studdy, who has been one of the
Graythwaite fete helpers since it began.
Ruth Bedford, just back from a year
in South America, took the Sydney
Bridge Club last Friday night and gave
a party to about 70 friends. Lantern
slides of her travels and a vivid and
humorous talk on her experiences kept
her audience still clamoring for more at
ten o’clock. The palatial Dutch Legation
in which the Teppemas are housed at
Buenos Ayres was among the pictures
flashed on the screen. Pictures, too, of
Mrs. Teppema and daughter Tanya.
Here Ruth was a guest for three months
between the P.E.N. Club conference and
her visit to the Chilean lakes. These
have just lately been opened to the tour-
ist traffic, and, as described by the Sydney
traveller, are a sparkling chain of en-
chantment set between wooded slopes
where flowers, exotic and native, carpet
the ground.
Three times across the Andes went
Ruth, twice by rail and once by water-
ways. Wherever she went she saw glit-
tering palaces of marble and tumble-
down buildings within a few streets of
one another. In Buenos Ayres there
seemed to be a fever of pulling down
the older buildings. Even now women
do not walk the streets unescorted, but
as there are eight men to one woman
there this should not be an insurmount-
able problem. Descriptions of a picnic
in woodland setting where native dances
were performed by Argentinian and
Indian dancers, and where lambs were
roasted whole in the open and the
lunchers took their plates to the spit and
said to the chef “Cut me a slice from
there or there,” made most of the lis-
teners feel that only winning the lottery
stood between them and a ticket straight
to the Argentine.
Freeman’s camera has caught this pro-
file of Mrs. David Knox, president of
the committee working for the Sister
Kenny Clinic at Royal North Shore Hos-
pital. On Saturday night (as the elec-
tions are being tucked in bed) the com-
mittee’s last money-raiser for this year
will be in full swing. This is a ball in
the Nieuw Holland, which will be
berthed at No. 4 Circular Quay for the
occasion. The Royal Packet Navigation
Company is lending the ship, and is
supplying all the supper except the saus-
age rolls and the oyster patties. It is
also providing a small sea of claret
cup and hock cup and suchlike drinks.
As the tickets are only half a guinea
they are selling at a great rate. This
time last year the same co. gave one
of its ships for the same cause. Since
then the committee has run a monster
bridge afternoon and a most successful
matinee at the Royal.
Mrs. Anne Bryen, of Kippilaw, Goul-
burn, was married in the local St.
James’s Church, which was built as far
back as 1869 by ancestor James Chis-
holm. Mrs. Bryen, who is a daughter
of the F. Chisholms, of Kippilaw, be-
came Mrs. Inigo Triggs, of Merrigal.
’Groom’s father was the noted A. B.
Triggs, of Linton, Yass. The wedding
was a family affair. The bride wore a
frock of blue-spotted sheer and toning
hat.
Mrs. Grundy (not the fabulous one,
but the Firm’s wardrobe mistress) made
her first stage dresses for the Williamson
and Musgrove production of “Pinafore
in 1881. She pensioned off her needles
and pins the other day when she finished
the last of the dresses for “Balalaika.’
With her retirement passes the last of
the old J.C.W. retinue. The lavish
George Musgrove was her patron ; he
gave her a free hand, and took her to
London for his “Belle of New York"
production there. Her association with
the stage is lifelong, for Mrs. Nathan's
theatrical boarding-house in Melbourne
was a regular institution with the pro-
fession, and Mrs. Grundy was a daughter
of the house. Her husband was one of
Williamson’s actors. She is 76, which is
a solid age at which to carry on an
exacting job.
Riverview will benefit by almost £2O
from the bridge party staged at her home
by Mrs. Ken Prior. There were about
130 players, and a group of Bradley
Head’s prettiest girls first made up
packets of chocolate in cellophane, and
then sold them to the assemblage. The
hostess had baked one of her famous
Christmas cakes, which was striven for
in a lucky-number contest. Tables were
in the ballroom and the big drawing-
room, and at all of them sat mothers
whose sons are among Riverview’s hopes.
From the Irish elegance and the shy
little rock flowers along the drive to the
apricot-colored azaleas on a side path
overlooking the Harbor, everything was
smiling and shining for the Governor-
General’s second garden party. There
was tea near the fort down by the water’s
edge, and tea on the sheltered lawn near
the front gates. Here the sun beat down,
and Sydneyites who hadn’t seen it for
two days basked in its warmth. The
day brought out some real garden-party
frocks and hats, and, what was noticed
on Tuesday, flocks of white shoes. The
march past took over an hour, and a
prize for amiability goes to Lord Gowrie,
whose smile was as cordial to the last
as to the first. Roadway and seaway
to the house were animated, the one
with miles of cars, the other with dashing
little pinnaces.
The party netted a whole catch of
bishops (arch and otherwise), and this
Letter heard a flapper asking if the
Bishop of Ballerina (a neat contraction
of Ballarat and Riverina) was among
them. Sydney’s own Dr. Mowll was
there with his attractive wife, whose
black sheer frock was scrolled with
white. Mrs. Bertie Kelly, very hand-
some, rustled in black taffeta. Mrs.
Elink Schuurman was another who was
picturesque in black taffeta. The
Norman Lowes brought daughter Lulu
in a ground-length lace frock stitched
here and there with a pearl. The Hugh
Poynters were there, her chiffon frock
patterned in brown, daughter Jocelyn
springlike in Paisley. Dame Constance
D’Afcy and Dame Mary Gilmore held a
miniature reception on the top lawn.
Noreen Dangar and Clarice Faithfull
Anderson, who wore a redingote of
white ninon over roseate silk, were
frocked in party mood.
Rosalind Bowman and Gloria Cos-
grave were two smiles slipped into the
day. Mrs. F. ). Davy was lilac-toned,
hat and bag and flowers, too. The
Stuart Osbornes were an attractive pair,
and Belinda Street went patterned in
skyey blues. Mark Sheldon’s lady’s hat
and frock, like Mrs. Sep Levy’s, showed
black at its best. Daffodil tones were
chosen by Mrs. Harry Rosenthal, of
Melbourne. Two large butterflies poised
on her hat looked just the right inhabi-
tants of the garden. Mrs. Alan Potter’s
white rigout was commendable.


Banff and its Castle
Hotel in Canada’s Rockies
provide thrills never be-
fore experienced ; Banff
can only be reached via
247 George Street, Sydney
59 William Street, Melbourne
Canadian Pacific Rly. Co., Inc. in Canada
Great Cough Remedy
Wonderful Money-saver.
For the last twenty years millions of
Australians have saved much money by
making their own family cough* and
influenza remedy with HEENZO. It is
so easy to add a two-shilling bottle of
concentrated HEENZO to sweetened
water, and thus make a large supply
of cough remedy equal in quantity and
superior in quality to about £l’s worth
of the best of the ready-made-up
remedies for chest and throat ailments.
The purity of HEENZO makes it an ideal
cough remedy for babies as well as adults.
BRANDAUER-S
%
6<r.v
PENS
Every point
guaranteed —
do not experiment with imitations.
C. BKAHDABEE * CO--Ltd.. BIRMINGHAM. ENG
df
You’ll enjoy a stay at the Went-
worth. Whether your trip be busi-
ness or social, the Wentworth is
ideal. Close to business and social
centres, the Wentworth is yet noted
for its restful comfort, its service
and cuisine. Wire or write for
reservations.
WENTWORTH
HOTEL
'PHONE 8W1361 (10 lines)
CD. MACLURCAN MNG. DIRECTOR
J. S. L.EVY, Manager.
Melbourne
Chatter
To the social folk of Melbourne last
Friday was an indication of how closely
dates follow on one another’s heels dur-
ing the racing season. In the late after-
noon several hundreds splashed their cars
through the rain to Government House
for the Hon. Mrs. Helme Pott’s party in
honor of daughter Hermione. There
followed innumerable dinners, formal
and buffet, and round about 10 every-
body met again at the Palais for the
Victoria League Ball.
To Mrs. Pott’s party Lady Hunting-
field wore silver foxes and small black
hat, but the hostess and the three girls
most prominent in the picture, Her-
mione, the Hon. Veronica Saumarez and
Diana Quilter, all chose to be hatless.
Miss Saumarez and Miss Quilter, who
are guests at the G.H., lost their clothes
somewhere in China while on a walking
tour, but seem to have acquired fresh
wardrobes with little trouble. Miss
Saumarez, who sports an unwaved page-
boy coiffure, wore an afternoon frock
with a redingote of black woollen sheer.
Her friend, equally blonde in coloring,
was in black chiffon of dinner-gown cut
and length. Hermione, in her nasturtium
and golden-brown frock, dexterously
worked her way round the packed
drawing-room, for rain and damp lawns
were no invitation to visit the garden.
Judging by the greetings on all sides
this young hostess will be as popular as
a debutante as she was as a schoolgirl.
Feminine performers of the country
dances at the Victoria League Ball
profited by the experience of other years
at other balls when they had unhappy
visions of high heels coming to grief on
polished ballroom floors. On Friday
night rubber soles on their shoes were
the safeguards of rustic exuberance.
While first plans were being hatched for
the ball, these young maids and matrons
decided against country dresses, and
wore instead green and gold streamers
on evening gowns which were white or
pastel in tone.
Mrs. • Moffat-Pender’s gifts to those
taking part were, for the village maidens,
primroses attached to little fans of
pleated green organdie, and posies
of buttercups pressed against the hearts
of dancers for those who mimed
the parts of shepherd lads. Judy Webb
and Captain Moffat-Pender, both in kilts,
interpreted a light-hearted Coronation
Reel, and the pipers piped the Reel of
Tulloch for a round dozen of Scotsmen.
Rehearsals of the dances had been going
on for months, twice a week, for
Captain Moffat-Pender is nothing if not
thorough. All performers were foot- and
hand-perfect. Owing to the programme’s
late start the girls’ dance didn’t come on
before supper as was planned, but after-
wards, round about midnight. The Hunt-
ingfields stayed for it, and were enjoying
themselves so much that they had no
idea of the time.
A wet Saturday afternoon and no-
where to go was what faced several
thousands of people when the V.A.T.C.
made its momentous decision to post-
pone the Caulfield Cup. Matinees at the
picture-shows were packed to capacity,
for the first time in history, with adults
only on a holiday afternoon, for infan-
tile-paralysis precautions are still being
exercised. Crowds loitered round the
streets and steady drinking went on in
hotel lounges, bars and coffee shops.
Punters gathered together and started to
re-sort their ideas and hunches, commenc-
ing once more at the very beginning with
data that provided for more scratchings
and the possibility of fine weather.
Women who had compiled spring ward-
robes with interest and deep thought
took heart again and hoped that winter
tweeds and raincoats would not be
needed after all.
Pianist Arthur Rubinstein was the star
attraction of the last celebrity concert of
the year, which took place on Saturday
night in a capacity Town Hall. The
overflow sat itself on the steps upstairs,
for the “white angels” of the Philhar-
monic Choir Society had stratospheric
places in the organ loft. Owing to the
weather and possibly to the number of
Caulfield Cup Day cocktail parties, many
people who usually come along in white
ties and diamonds stayed as they were
in street clothes and hats.
Neenoo Due and her fiancd, Dr. Marsh
Renou, were together. Neenoo, who
wore a black velvet cloak, recently re-
turned from brother Einar’s wedding in
Queensland. Helen Speeing was also
swathed in black velvet and sprigged
with lily-of-the-valley. Nancy Mair’s
cloak of similar material had pipings of
silver lame. Dr. and Mrs. John Williams
were in their usual seats ; Mrs. Williams,
always decorative, wore black organza,
white camellias, and her hair in twin
halo rolls. Janet Downie accompanied
Dr. and Mrs. Ewan Downie. The Tris-
tan Buesst couple, Mrs. Buesst in
sapphire velvet clipped with diamente, ar-
rived just before the doors were shut on
the heels of the vice-regals. Hinemoa
Rosieur was noticed in a squirrel coat
and a new lorgnette acquisition for read-
ing programme annotations. Jean
Stewart-Ferguson wore black coat and
hat with a short, stiff veil. Unanimous
admiration was incited by Anne Cod-
rington, of the Fay Compton co., whose
ice-blue gown, perfect complexion and
features, combined with hair just going
grey, made a charming picture.
After two and a half years abroad
Peggy Nankivell returned home recently
with skis as well as golf clubs as part of
her luggage, and many pleasant memories
of visits to old Scottish castles as the
guest of relatives and friends. Peggy
played golf on some of the most famous
links in the world, and upheld the honor
of her country in several competitions.
She is an associate of Royal Melbourne,
and has a handicap of six. A ski jour-
ney across Switzerland, carrying all food
and camping equipment, was one of her
most exciting adventures. Elder sister
Betty, who also plays good golf, is a
science graduate, and will receive her
degree in medicine next month. The girls
are daughters of the H. C. Nankivell
couple of Hopetoun-road. Broothorn
snapped Peggy in spring hat and silver
foxes.
The inhabitants of Frankston got into
spring clothes, for the day was warm and
sunny, discovered their gloves, jumped
into their cars and motored up to town,
all in honor of Harold Herbert’s exhibi-
tion. “Balalaika’s” Robert Halliday com-
menced his opening speech with super
punctuality on the tick of three, with
the result that American leading lady
Margret Adams arrived just too late to
hear her leading man’s oration. Miss
Adams was in a blue tunic frock made
with skirt much longer than is at present
worn in Australia. Her colored linen
shoes were backless, and their ankle
straps were tied with fussy cord, not on
the instep but behind the heel. The
D. N. Trenerys called in at the exhibition
as a preliminary to a festive evening of
dinner in town and respective dates at
the Savage Club and the theatre.
The Tom Ramsays were there, Tom
with an impeccable daisy picked at
Ranelagh in his buttonhole, and Mrs.
Tom wearing a white halo hat and a
navy frock with sleeve fripperies of
paler blue. Others from the Frankston
district were recently-married pair Col.
and Mrs. C. M. M. Dare, Peggy
McComas, Marea Lucas and Mrs. E. A.
Machin, whose navy dress was a playing
field for quaint Chinese figures in any-
thing but warlike mood. Generals
Blarney and St. John Scott Scott were
there. Mrs. Charles Marriott was noticed
in a navy-blue coat, and Mrs. Maurice
Sloman in a black frock with necklet em-
broideries of tiny felt flowers.
In Eve Ray’s photograph is a bride-
to-be who also has an engagement to be
bridesmaid, Beverley Lansell, daughter
of the Leonard Lansell couple, of Moula-
mein (N.S.W.) and of Lansellstow, Ben-
digo. Next Friday Miss Lansell will
take her place at All Saints’, East St.
Kilda, in the bridal procession of Janet
Landale and Robert Scott Morton. On
November 10, at the same church, she
will be married to Dr. Robin Orr.
The opening day of Norman Lindsay’s
exhibition was an exception among art
shows, where private views are private
only in name ; the Lindsay pictures could
be seen only on production of an invita-
tion. The Knox lady made the opening
speech, after which a curtain was drawn
aside from the largest and most expen-
sive piece of work displayed, “Don
Juan,” which anyone is at liberty to
carry home in exchange for 600 guineas.
Among first-day spectators were Rose-
mary Knox, very tall and slim, whose
features and sweet expression might be
inspiration for any portrait-painter.
Rosemary wore a navy-blue frock, cut
with gored skirt, high waist and white
braid motifs. Her mother placed three
orchids upon her furs, and white loop
stitching was ornamentation for her
black hat. Mrs. R. S. Callander, wearing
a navy-blue tailored suit, fox furs and
her coiffure in a smooth roll, was ac-
companied by an M.L. visitor, Mrs. F. H.
Carr, who had a black whirl of lace upon
her hat and showed a practical apprecia-
tion for Melbourne’s lily-of-the-valley by
attaching a sprig to her lapel. Wearing
silver-fox furs on navy blue was Mrs.
Eric Pyke, no relation to Guelda and
Molly, who she thinks must be a very
popular pair, judging by the telephone
rings she gets in error at all hours of the
day. Mrs. Lennox Spiers was present in
tailored coat and a black veil as an acces-
sory after the fact of a white hat. Paddy
Love hit a sportsgirl bull’s-eye with her
brown check suit. A mild stir was caused
by Jean Ogilvie’s Mickey Mouse millin-
ery in black, its black ears lined with
white.
Opening Neville Bunning’s exhibition
of pottery, which included a bust of
Priminister Lyons modelled on board the
Orford, Dame Enid Lyons mentioned her
“recklessness” in getting mixed up with
art. She then went on to make a really
excellent speech, showing broadminded
views and more knowledge of art than
she would have anyone believe. Among
spectators were Lynette Kohlhagen, a
painter from Adelaide, and Jean Camp-
bell, wearing a coat which she calls her
“lionskin shot by a rejected suitor.” Last
week Jean received the jacket for her
newest book, The Red Sweet Wine, and
found that the publishers had compli-
mented her in carrying out her sugges-
tions for design ; a “sexless” hand ( i.e
wearing neither sleevelinks nor frilly
cuff) holding a carafe of pungent-looking
liquid.
The International Club’s morning
party, served with lemon tea and choco-
late cakes, for the Don Cossack Choir
was one of the most friendly and in-
formal receptions the club has had. The
Cossacks are cheery folk and not the
least bit blase—in fact, they give the
impression that they would love to be
invited into private homes. They used
their own initiative in fetching chairs and
finding their way on to the roof to smoke
Australian cigarettes. In English some
move slowly, but they spark up easily
in French and German. Mrs. Frank
Faulkner had great success with her Ger-
man, and received many compliments
upon her fluency. Mrs. A. W. Foster
encouraged Conductor Kostrukoff’s first
steps in English so sympathetically that
she was able to put two and two together
and glean the information that he is 38,
that the old silver ring on the little finger
of his right hand is a war decoration, and
that when at concerts he walks behind
the choir and turns his back to the audi-
ence it isn’t to look at his watch but to
blow very softly a keynote on his pocket
tone-finding instrument.
Other discoveries made at the club
party were that Basil Ivanoff, the choir’s
whirlwind sword-dancer and hurler of
daggers, wears in the street the same
high pliable boots in which he is such
a success in the more picturesque por-
tions of the programme. There is a
secret behind his all-round footwear, for
over his soft-soled boots he wears leather
slippers, so well made that no one can
tell they are movable and not all-in-
one with the boots. Ivan’s second secret
is that he’s tattooed all over, the orna-
mentations being done when he was only
10 years old. He’s a genuine Cossack,
and at an early age learnt to ride and
break wild horses. Afterwards he studied
ballet, and was with Pavlova’s co. for
two years.
The choir’s basso profundo wears
glasses off the concert platform, and the
high tenor is the only man in the co.
with a beard. He speaks good English,
is aged 30, and declares that his beard
(it’s parted in the middle and swoops
sideways in three-inch-long waves) is
only a three months’ growth.
Maisie Yelland is home again after
cutting the interior of China out of her
trip to Asia. Instead, she went to
Saigon and motored up by bus the 400
miles to Angkor, staying for a day or
two at Pnom Penh on the way. At the
very comfortable hotel in Angkor, popu-
lar with round-the-world tourists, she
amused herself one evening looking
through visitors’ books for the last few
years, and found record of only one
traveller from Australia. In Hong Kong
Maisie had the misfortune to meet both
the typhoon and influenza. The place
was packed with refugees. A number of
those with British passports, who said
they had no money, were put up at the
Happy Valley racecourse until the racing
season commenced, when they were re-
moved to an old disused gaol at Kow-
loon. It was then that a great number
discovered they had money after all.
Among Hong Kong women assisting
with relief work is Mrs. Donald Forbes,
who before her marriage was Gwen Tait.


INVEST THIS MODERN WAY
By Buying FIRST AUSTRALIAN UNIT TRUST
CERTIFICATES you secure a “spread” for your
money over 20 leading Companies known through-
out Australia. You also obtain a yield of approxi-
mately 5% p.a., potential capital appreciation and
trustee safeguards through the Union Insurance
Society of Canton, Ltd.
Booklet No. 1 is yours on request to the Managers:
AUSTRALIAN FIXED TRUSTS PTY., LTD.,
8-14 Bond Street, Sydney.
Box 4028 V.V., G.P.O.
Telephone: 85294.
Australia*s Leading Financial Journal •
OCTOBER ISSUE NOW ON SALE.
MARKET PSYCHOLOGY AND THE OUTLOOK,
Interest Rates.
Share Prospects and New Issues.
Mt. Morgan—Zinc Corp.—Montana Western
Malayan Tin.
PRICE 21 - PER COPY, OR £ll2/6 PER ANNUM POSTED.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd., 252 George Street, Sydney, and all States.
NORTH OF
T WENTY-EIGHT
If there’s anything in this A-ticket
theory, Darwin should be the place for it.
Ah Fat, Ah Sam, Ah Loong are there in
profusion, and, with their compatriots
through the lists down to Wun Lung,
make up over 10 p.c. of the whole of the
N.T. electors. The position is all the better
from a voting viewpoint since the square
in which the number is put on the ballot-
paper represents the Chinese radical for
“mouth,” and is pronounced (Cantonese
dialect) “how” —that is as nearly as an
English ear can hear it. So all you have
to do is to head a pamphlet “How to
Vote.” You thus get your square into
the heading. Then you select three
Orientals called Ah Yat (Chinese for
Number One), Ah Yee (Number Two)
and Ah Sam (Number Three), and they
count themselves in order so that there
would be no doubt which should get
which number on the party ticket. A. M.
Blain has adopted the idea ingeniously
in his election appeal to Chinese sup-
porters, who are adjured to call Toupein,
the Labor candidate, “Ah Sam” by ram-
ming the figure “3” into his how
(mouth).
* * * *
“Mac Fergus”: An old landmark
among Queensland school buildings
about to get the axe is the State school
at Gayndah, one of the State’s oldest
towns. The original structure built in
1861 is still doing duty, but is soon to
make way for a modern schoolhouse.
Gayndah in the ’sixties was an impor-
tant place, and the first Queensland
Derby was run on the local racecourse.
* *
“O’stein”: Along the western rim of
the continent a Norwegian whaling fleet
is slaughtering hundreds of whales and
carrying the oil to the other end of the
world. Rusting on the same coast is a
well-equipped land-whaling station, dead
from lack of local enterprise. Farther
north Japanese fleets lift a rare harvest
of fish, pearlshell and pearls, all again to
be taken to a distant market. On the
eastern side much the same thing goes
on. What’s the matter with this coun-
try? Neither Norway nor Japan finds it
necessary to be continually borrowing
“to provide work for the unemployed.”
* * * *
“Puyyaka”: I can assure “Friday
Island” (B. 6/10/’37) that Treacle was
a Yorke Islander, and that the fish which
gave him his scar necklace was a groper.
In 1911, as a precaution against a small-
pox outbreak in the Aru Islands, where
Clark’s fleets were working, I vaccinated
for the Q. Government practically every
native in the Strait islands. Treacle,
an engaging and persuasive person, gave
notable assistance in persuading nervous
citizens to undergo brand b’long white
man, and we became good feller friend.
A year or two later I helped the late Dr.
C. E. Wassell to extract with dental
forceps from Treacle’s solid skull several
of the typical peglike teeth of a groper.
Treacle said it was a groper, but by the
time “F. 1.” met him he had learned that
bee-eeg feller shark was better bait
catchum that feller tshillin’ from steamer-
visitors at T.I. As for the photograph,
it went round the world’s press —prob-
ably is still going. I saw it in an English
paper two years ago.
“Nordbo”: Back of Edgehill, near
Cairns (N.Q.), a 15ft. carpet-snake swal-
lowed a small puppy. The owner
promptly shot the snake, slit its innards
open and recovered the dog, which was
quite uninjured, and now is as cocky as
ever.
* * * *
“J. Want”: Dalby (s.-w. Q.) is to be
blessed with a new national radio station
and should find plenty of local talent if
it is allowed to use it. I hope they will
not forget my old friend Prickly Pear
Bill. Bill was in the local lockup when
I met him. The sergeant didn’t intro-
duce him, since Bill was one of those
pressing people who need no introduc-
tion. He was lying in the corner of a
cell with his mouth open, his whiskers
"Japanese boycott, Ma, an' me all set t' shear Elsie again."
matted with blood, and he was singing
the Dalby national anthem:
It’s a charming lit’ town,
It’ll never let yah down,
With its girls and its goats an’ its bottles.
“What’s the matter with him?” I asked
the sergeant. To which he replied
wearily: “Oh, nothing. He come in
here yesterday charged with stealing a
saddle, illegally driving stock, resisting
arrest, treading on the constable’s face
and obscene language. I had to give
him a plug in the eye to stop him sing-
ing.” “But he’s singing now.” “Yair?”
said the sergeant as a new blast of sound
made the bars quiver. • “But y’ want t’
hear him when he's really trying.” It
seems to me Bill (if still in the land ol
the living) has the persistent spirit which
makes crooners world-renowned.
"Australia Jane’s" Budget
Over 700 players attended the second
annual Bridge Pageant run by the
Legacy Club at the Trocadero. Auc-
tioneers were in the ballroom, and con-
tractors were given a room to themselves.
President J. B. Charlton and his wife,
she smart in sunset lace and a bridge
coat of brocade, were official host and
hostess. After greeting the large con-
signment of visitors, Mrs. Charlton
settled down to a game with Mrs. Ross
Burrell, Mrs. J. McGuire and Mrs. J.
Hayden.
The Scotts of Hornet Bank are one
of the best-known pastoral families in
Queensland, and folk all over Australia
will be interested to hear of the engage-
ment of Sepha Powell Scott, daughter of
the A. W. Scotts, and granddaughter of
Mr and Mrs. W. A. Scott, Hornet Bank,
Taroom, to K. J. Glasson, of Delungra
(N.S.W.), youngest son of Mrs. J.
Glasson, Sydney.
Heather Murray, guest of honor at a
bridge party given by Mrs. E. M. Tooth
at her home at Ascot, collected a green
gourd vase adorned with a horseshoe of
roses for her glory box. Her wedding
to Dr. Charles Lawrie happened a day
or two later.
“The Crime at Blossoms,” latest pro-
duction of the Rep. Soc., added a feather
to Barbara Sisley’s cap. Clem Christesen,
as the hard-up Merriman, and Mrs. Roy
Bulcock, as Valerie, his wife, shared the
honors, but Nancy Fowles, who played
the daily help, Mrs. Woodman, also
deserves mention. Her description of
the horrible moment when she wandered
into the cottage to tidy up and dis-
covered a brace of corpses was thrilling.
If and when the cash is forthcoming
to provide kilts, sporrans, plaids and
what not, the 15th Infantry Battalion
will become the Queensland Cameron
Highlanders. A concert at the City Hail
to aid the fund was well attended, and
knight Donald Cameron urged all good
Scots to come along with the bawbees.
T. W. Glasgow, also on the platform,
mentioned that an extra £4 per man
would be required. Sydney McEwan
sang, the Scottish Orpheus Choir gave
several fine numbers, and assisting artists
were May Jordan, Will Donald, Harry
Borrodale and the Highland lassies of
the Brisbane Caledonian Society. About
180 enlistments have been registered so
far.
Somerville House celebrated its 38th
anniversary with a service, a buffet lun-
cheon and a sports meeting. The present
girls beat the past pupils hollow at net-
ball and tennis, and also captured the
honors in the swimming pool, which
many of the visitors patronised during
the afternoon. Misses Harker and
Jarrett, known to three generations of
schoolgirls as the “Heavenly Twins,’’
were the centre of groups of old girls
all day, and the party finished with a
cheery informal social gathering at
night.
Lieut.-Governor James Blair officially
opened the annual show of the Arts and
Crafts Society, which will not close its
doors until October 23. President E. H.
Staines and a committee of beauty lovers
were responsible for the arrangements.
Outstanding exhibits are Mrs. W. C.
Carmody’s needlework, Mrs. D. Avdall s
hand-sewn skin gloves, samples of hand-
weaving by Mrs. C. Reydon and rugs
worked by Mrs. F. Woodroffe. Plenty
of pottery, hand-painted china, leather-
work and woodcarving fill up the cases
and corners. One of the best shows the
society ever has staged.
For the first time in three years the
annual conference of the Federated
Council of Catholic Women is
being held in Brisbane, and
three members of the order of
the Ladies of the Grail, founded
in Holland about 16 years ago,
are attending it. Dr. Van Ker-
senberger, Superior of the
organisation in Australia, will
be one of the speakers at the
conference. Miss K. Egan and
Miss M. O’Shanessy, of N. S.
Wales, Rose Done-
ley, of Adelaide,
and Mrs. E. Mc-
Donald and Miss E.
Sullivan, Melbourne,
are among the dele-
gates. Trips to
Cleveland and Mt.
Coot-tha and a gar-
den party at Wyn-
ber g, Archbishop
Duhig’s home, were
included in the social
side of the confer-
ence.
Oct. 22 has been
chosen by the old
boys of the Armi-
dale School for their
party at the National
roof garden in
honor of the prin-
cipal, Rev. H. P.
Young, and his wife.
This is the first do
the Armidale old
boys have had in
Brisbane, although
there are a good
many of them scattered about the State.
Jim Bourke and his bride, Jean Horne
that was, were married in Ayr, and ap
propriately enough went on to Townsville
by ’plane to join the boat for Sydney.
After the ’moon they will go to, New
Guinea, where their home will be.
Mr. and Mrs. W. H. Doherty gave a
welcome-home party to airwoman Mrs.
H. B. Bonney at their flat in Carmel
Court, South Brisbane. Mrs. Bonney, in
an ankle-length frock of mist-blue, with
a protective husband hovering round her,
looked most unlike a pilot who had just
completed a trip to Cape Town all alone.
The lounge was all gold—marigolds and
Iceland poppies.
Lena Rusky produced at the Princess
Theatre the annual revue staged by the
hockey girls. Some of the turns and
small plays were written by the girls,
“Nightmare,” written by a daughter of
the Jones clan, among them. Every
club put on an act, and the Social Insti-
tute scored with its “Tin Soldiers and
Rag Dolls.” The Taxation girls had a
cannibal act, with Mrs. Harry Hansford
as the medicine-man. A good show,
which demonstrated that there is plenty
of talent among our athletic damsels.


PURE WHITE
TOMATO!
Sole Distributors. N.S.W
G.P.O.
“White Beauty." Amazing
new pure' white HEALTH
TOMATO. Guaranteed IGO
per cent. NON-ACID (a
sensa t i o a 1 achievement)
DELICIOUS FLAVOUR.
Large fruit (IJlbs.). Heavy
bearer, disease free, grows any-
where.. Selling on sight U.S.A.
markets, replacing red varieties.
BIG MONEY for first grow-
ers in Australia. This seed can
be sown until Christmas. 2/6
packet, posted
SEED CO., 17a PITT-STREET.
BOX 4109 WW. SYDNEY. N.S.W
sd
For Sale.
House for Sale.
A Country Home at the City Gates.
Situated in one of the best position* in the favoured
North Shore Suburb of PYMBLE, within 12 minutes’
walk of Station, handy to good schools, and only
i hour to City.
Gentleman’s Two-storey Brick Residence.
Standing in nearly 2 acres with 2 frontages, 8
rooms, billiard or ballroom, all offices, 2 garages,
3 loose boxes, tennis court, light, water, sewer, a
frontage of 270 feet; to good street at back makes
it to subdivide into 4 good allotments.
PRICE £5OOO. Inspection by appointment only
through & CO., PYMBLE. JX3423.
Meetings.
THE PERMANENT TRUSTEE
COMPANY OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
LIMITED.
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that an
EXTRAORDINARY GENERAL
MEETING of THE PERMANENT
TRUSTEE COMPANY OF NEW
SOUTH WALES LIMITED will be held
at the Council Room, Second Floor,
Manufacturers' House, 12 O’Connell
Street, Sydney, on TUESDAY, the 9th
day of NOVEMBER, 1937, at the termi-
nation of the General Meeting of the
Company which will be held on that
day at 2.15 p.m. when the subjoined
resolutions will be proposed as Special
Resolutions:
SPECIAL RESOLUTIONS.
1. That the name of the Company be changed
to “Permanent Trustee Company of New
South Wales Limited.”
2. That the new Regulations already approved
of by this Meeting and which for the purpose
of identification have been signed by the
Chairman thereof be and the same are
hereby approved and that such Regulations
be and they are hereby adopted as the
Regulations of the Company to the exclusion
of all other existing Regulations.
DATED this 14th day of October,
1937.
By Order of the Board,
J. W. BARNES,
Manager.
23 and 25 O’Connell Street,
Sydney.
Stevens’ accuracy has stood unsur-
passed as long as rifle firearms have
been in existence l
Mick Simmons, Ltd,, have just re-
ceived the last of their quota of
dfgfdgdfg
STEVENS
SPRINGFIELD
Model 52 Single
SHOT RIFLE
Price 50/-
{Postage 2J-; Other States 3/6)
And when the present stocks are
exhausted no more can come into
the country.
The Model 52 has a 22in. steel
barrel and up-to-date bolt action,
and is fully up to the standard of
accuracy for which the name of
Stevens has always been famous.
Before the Federal Government’s
embargo on the importation of
American firearms and am-
munitions Mick Simmons,
Ltd., sold many thousands of
Stevens 52’s, and can state
without fear of contradiction
that no rifle, price considered,
has given Mick Simmons, Ltd.,
or their clients such fault-
less satisfaction. There are
only a few left ... so do
not delay too long in
placing your order.
Write for Mick Simmons' comprehensive
Shooting Catalogue. Free and post free
on request.
MICK SIMMONS
LTD.,
712-22 George St., Haymarket, Sydney.
Branches: City, Suburbs and Newcastle.
1937 BELONGS TO
bocmiM vfj
(6) Beauty
and Comfort
HI
m
• -x-x-ic-;
£:: :>: : :^v':”:>x : XwXvix<;
/■^VA
1
I
Ask about the Confiden-
tial G.M.A.C. Conveni-
ent Payment Plan.
Youf Money Goes
Farther in a G.M.-Hs
“AIR - CHIEF”
CAR RADIO
Instal an “ AIR-
CHIEF’ ’ two-unit
Car Radio, especially
designed for the
1937 Oldsmobile,
featuring exclusive
speaker and control
unit to match instru-
ment panel; separate
Bin. dynamic speaker
if desired.
General Motors--Holden’s Ltd.
(Incorporated in Victoria)
Style-setter to the industry, Oldsmobile has set a new fashion-trend
and accompanied it with such comfort as has never been achieved
before. From dashing radiator, along the long, rakish bonnet, over
the gleaming All-Steel “Turret Top” to the graceful curve of the
Luggage-boot, speed is translated into safety and comfort.
Open the wide doors and step into Oldsmobile’s luxurious interior.
Upholstery, hardware, instrument-panels, all blend with the body-
finish to give a real glamour of beauty with comfort—for both body
and mind. The insulation against sound is unbelievable, until you
have actually experienced it! The “Turret Top” body is cool in
Summer, warm in Winter. The multi-adjustable driver’s seat gives
the driver the exact height as well as the exact leg-reach that he wishes.
‘‘Relax-o-Form” seating is far more restful than any previous seating.
Every appointment is included—Ash Trays, Arm Rests, Assist Cords,
Dome Lights, Cloak Rails. These, together with such proved comfort
features as Independent Front-Wheel Springing (which turns the
roughest road into a boulevard), No-draught Ventilation (which allows
fresh air to be drawn in without draughts—in all weathers), with
others, assure you of lasting and absolute content in an Oldsmobile 1
Arrange for a demonstration now. Sit behind the wheel and feel
for yourself the wonderful handling ease of this great car.
OLDSMOBILE
Consult your Local Authorised Dealer
Sold and Serviced by Oldsmobile Dealers all over Australia
THE LITTLE SISTERS.
WESTRALIA.
After a fortnight of frenzied dress re-
hearsals in the theatre, the curtain at His
Majesty’s rose on the first Westralian
Drama Festival. A conference last Feb-
ruary of the Rep. Socs. of the State in-
augurated this festival, which is said to
be the biggest thing ever attempted by
am. dram, organisations in the Common-
wealth. Over 300 enthusiasts collaborated
in putting on 17 plays, which included,
in addition to one-acters, several full-
length efforts. Credit for organisation
was due to Keith George, director of the
Workers’ Art Guild, and the city Rep.
Society’s head, Esmond George. The
week’s menu provided a mixed grill of
subjects. The Martinez-Sierra “Cradle
Song” (put on by the Pleiades Club)
dealt with a peaceful Spain and con-
trasted strongly with Ernest Toller’s
“Hinkemann,” given by the Workers’ Art
Guild and portraying suffering in post-
war Germany. J. B. Fagan’s “And So
to Bed” and the Continental stage and
film success “Death Takes a Holiday”
were produced by the Garrick Club and
Rep. Club respectively, and the one-act
plays, six of them Australian, ranged in
scene from Broome to London.
The hunting fraternity forsook horses
and breeches for dancing shoes and float-
ing draperies on the occasion of the
Hunt Club Ball at the Embassy. Presi-
dent J. J. Poynton did the honors, with
wife at side in silver-beaded peach satin
draperies caped with white ostrich-
feathers, and Master A. E. Joyner helped
in the receiving with Mrs. Joyner clad in
silver-lacquered black ripple chiffon cut
tunic-wise. On his arrival Acting-
Governor Mitchell inspected the guard
of honor formed by club members re-
splendent in hunting pink. His lady
swung her favorite Parma-violet chiffons,
sprayed with anemones, through the Sir
Roger de Coverley, and daughter Mrs.
Terence Anketell chose huntsman green
for her diaphanous pleated ninons.
Agent-General Colebatch sent details
of the Eagleton-Shaw wedding in Lon-
don. Helena is a daughter of Vernon
Eagleton, retiring sec. of Perth hospital,
and the bridegroom is Hudson Shaw,
erstwhile of Perth. Vows were ex-
changed at St. Laurence Jewry-next-
Guildhall, a famous Wren church dat-
ing back to 1671, and the reception was
held in the Haberdashers’ Hall, built
soon after the Great Fire of London. A
picture frock of Limerick lace belong-
ing to a great-aunt added to the interest
of the nuptials.
Guildford Grammar School old boys
took partners, in best bibs and tuckers,
to the Embassy for their ball. Country
members rolled along in force after judg-
ing day at the Show, and brother colleges
sent representatives who were welcomed
by C. M. R. Sinclair, president of the
old Guildfordians, and Mrs. Sinclair in
ripples of delphinium-blue ninon. Head-
master Padre R. E. Freeth’s other half
pinned shaded roses at the waist of her
filmy black georgettes, Mrs. George War-
burton, of Bridgetown, swung silver-
beaded purple drapings, Jan Inkpen
sashed floating amethyst georgettes with
dull green, and Betty Merryweather com-
bined mist-green chiffon pleatings with
palest pink shoulder draperies.
Its jarrah panelling backgrounding the
huge bowls of deep-pink peach blossom,
Winthrop Hall at the University over-
flowed with music-lovers for the Rubin-
stein season. The Polish pianist held the
fort alone at the first concert and shared
plaudits with conductor E. J. Roberts
and the Perth Symphony Orchestra on
the second night, when Beethoven and
Chopin concertos called forth rounds of
applause.
Congratulations are pouring in to
Sylvia Harper, Perth’s new Lady
Mayoress, who will be standing at her
father’s elbow at civic social doings in
the future. A deluge of fete-openings
within the next few weeks will plunge
her into speechifying immediately.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Military cocktail parties are becoming
prevalent. The 10th Battalion officers
and their wives entertained friends in
the officers’ messroom at Torrens Hall,
Parade Grounds, to discuss regimental-
ball decorations. Lieut.-Col. W. C. D.
Veale and his wife welcomed the guests.
The room was charmingly decorated with
mixed flowers and a large array of silver
cups that testify to the achievements of
the battalion.
A Christmas gifts bazaar at the Un-
employed Sales Depot was well attended.
It was opened by Lady Mayoress Barrett,
and good business was done. Pottery
was largely featured, especially the
troughs so much used now for flowers.
The Bonython lady received the Lady
Mayoress.
Much interest has been evinced in the
recent arrival from Melbourne of Mrs.
Clarence Weber, Australia’s seventh and
Victoria’s second woman member of
Parliament. Mrs. Weber has come to
Adelaide to help Mrs. Jeanne Young,
the Senate candidate.
A party was given to 40 friends by
Mr. and Mrs. Ray Chambers, of Unley
Park, at the South Australian. Dinner
was served in the ballroom, the tables
decorated with pink roses, pink sweet-
peas and carnations, with pink candles.
Later the guests played bridge in the
drawing-room. Mrs. Chambers’s three
o Continued, on next page.)


New
Zealand.
CcMf"!
IT'S DIFFERENT VARIED UNIQUE
Inspiring hospitality and splendid travel comforts
combine with low costs to open wide the world's
most unspoiled showpiece . . . rich in its own captivating
personality, yet reminiscent of a dozen other lands. You
forget yourself in the wonders of nature towering
snow-capped mountains . . . strange thermal activities . . .
tumbling cascades and waterfalls of shimmering beauty
. . . inexorable glaciers whose terminal faces are framed
in vegetation of tropical luxuriance . . . weird under-
ground caverns and glow-worm grottos of fairy-like
magnificence . . . placid lakes, and glorious fiords, en-
chanting in their kaleidoscopic moods, and variety of „
interest. And the invigorating climate will
give you a new lease on life, a new thrill and
pleasure in living.
SPORT AND PASTIMES
FOR EVERYBODY . . .
For the deep-sea fisherman the thrill of fight-
ing giant mako sharks and swordfish ... for
the angler, streams and lakes abounding in
trout ... for the golfer, well-kept courses
wherever he goes . . . hunting and
shooting for venison and game
. . . hiking along scenic trails
or mountaineering on tow-
ering peaks.
1
• • IP
i \- s r '
[Hi
K
arift
|-JP
J Wc
fi,-
,1
*NCW
*
&
[fRANZ
GIACIIB
FREE
TRAVEL SERVICE
To make your trip a truly
enjoyable holiday ... free from irrita-
tion and worry of details of transport, accom-
modation, luggage, etc. let us make all
arrangements for you. Our special credit sys-
tem saves you all worry of finance. Call,
write, or 'phone:—
/fcfj.iiij.miuiLMj in i. l
GOVERNMENT TOURIST BUREAU
14 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY (Directly opposite G.P.0.) 'Phone B 7043.
COLONIAL MUTUAL BLDG., 318-320 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE. Central 3110.
T. G. DEWAR & JONES, KING HOUSE, 79 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
(And all Travel Agents)
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF TASMANIA.
Divorce. , ,
TO WILLIAM EDWARD PRERO formerly of
Mt. Isa in Queensland Miner.
TAKE NOTICE that a petition • has been
filed in this Court endorsed with a notice to
you to appear and answer the charges m the
petition of JOAN MAY PRERO of 59 Eliza-
beth Street Hobart in Tasmania praying for a
dissolution of marriage In default of your so
appearing you will not be allowed to address
the Court and the Court will proceed to hear the
said petition proved and pronounce judgment in
respect thereto AND TAKE FURTHER
NOTICE that for the purpose aforesaid on or
before the Eighteenth day of November One
thousand nine hundred and thirty-seven an
appearance must be entered at the Registry
of the Supreme Court of Tasmania Macquarie
Street Hobart.
R. G. BINGHAM,
Registrar Supreme Court.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1599 of 1937.
BETWEEN HELEN COURTIER BRASIER
Petitioner
And CECIL ROWLAND BRUCE
BRASIER (also known as JAMES CECIL
ROWLAND and JAMES CECIL BRAS-
SIER) Respondent. „
TO CECIL ROWLAND BRUCE BRASIER
(also known as JAMES CECIL ROW-
LAND and JAMES CECIL BRASSIER).
TAKE NOTICE that the said HELEN
COURTIER BRASIER has commenced a suit
against you in this Court and is applying
for a Restitution of Conjugal Rights AND
TAKE NOTICE that you are required to enter
an appearance to the said suit at the proper
office of this Court on or before the Twelfth
day of January a.d 1938 and in the event of
your not doing so within the time limited or
obtaining further time the Petitioner will pro-
ceed and the suit be heard and determined
your absence notwithstanding. A copy of the
petition filed herein may be had on applica-
tion to the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this Fourteenth day of October, a.d.
1937.
For the Registrar,
(1.5.) E. F. LENNON,
Clerk in Divorce.
R. C. TISDALE, Solicitor for the Petitioner,
8a Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
THE
AUSTRALIAN
ART EXHIBITION
THE MACLEOD GALLERY
BULLETIN BUILDINGS,
252 George Street, Sydney
(Near Bridge Street).
The leading Exhibition of
Australian Art—latest works
by the most prominent
Australian Artists always on
view and for sale.
OPEN DAILY,
ADMISSION FREE.
Telephone: 87971.
39£
m.
7
s - fyW? °YC
s.tunntrwn
—9/
¥ du/VjY
iiiiifiiilissiiil
fefeffifig&SVv.V: •• • •••■ •• -4 bit
H
m
V. ‘ . f&K&x
, n,_
1
' . -4’J
\
(r -j
\ w / <■ *>
\Ji
h‘\\
/ MOW JXZTM 7y£
Distrioutors for the House of McCatlum:
Goldsbrough, Mort & Co., Ltd., Sydney, Lionel Samson & Son -
Melbourne and Brisbane.
Gibbs. Bright & Co. ----- Adelaide Macfarlane Bros. & Co
■ - Fremantlt
- - - Hobart
Hfc ■
sisters, Mrs. Nicholls and Muriel and
Gwen Hall, were among the guests.
Mr. and Mrs. R. K. Wood were host
and hostess at a large cocktail party at
their home, Glenunga, when friends were
invited to meet Mr. Wood’s sister, Mrs.
Russell Richards, of Canada, who has
been absent from her home town for
several years. There were about 60
present.
Constance, daughter of Mr. and Mrs.
C. M. Reid, of Unley Park, who went
to London to continue her studies in
massage, has married L. J. T. Pellew,
a South Australian, who recently gained
his F.R.C.S. in London. They will return
in the Largs Bay on December 1. The
marriage was celebrated at St. Clemence
Dane’s. Ruth Hone was bridesmaid,
and Dr. R. Pellew best man, so they had
Adelaide support.
Two other young Australians recently
married in England arrived in Adelaide
after eight months overseas. Dr. and
Mrs. W. J. Gregerson, the latter formerly
Sheila Campbell, of Sydney, becanie en-
gaged in London, where Dr. Gregerson
was doing post-graduate work. They
returned via the U.S.A. in the Monterey
and were given a large welcome-home
party at the Queen Adelaide Club by
Dr. Gregerson’s parents, Dr. and Mrs.
W. J. Gregerson, of Dulwich, with whom
they are staying.
It is unusual for a bride and bride-
groom to travel from Sydney to Adel-
aide to be married and then motor back
again, but that is what Dukie, daughter
of Canon C. E. Burgess, of Burwood,
Sydney, and Trevor Westall Durkin, also
of Sydney, did. The party from N. S.
Wales included the bridegroom’s mother
and bridesmaid Elaine Heggarton, from
Muttumburrah. The Durkins were one-
time residents in Adelaide, and the
bridegroom, an old St. Peter’s College
boy, felt he would like to follow tradi-
tion and be married in the College
chapel. Another unusual feature of the
wedding was that the bride was given
awqy by her future mother-in-law. The
leading lady’s waltz-blue sheer crepe was
appliqued down the front of the redin-
gote with flowers in navy blue. Her navy
straw hat turned off the face and had an
eye veil. The bridesmaid’s shrimp-pink
crepe de Chine was worn with a large
navy straw hat.
TASMANIA.
Launceston Show opened on a day of
steady rain, which, though welcomed by
farmers, made the Show Committee s
faces lengthen by inches. Ring events
were postponed till the second day, when
the weather cleared. The Governor and
Lady Clark were present, undaunted by
the weather. Lady Clark opened the
women’s section. In spite of a damp first
day the Show was very successful.
The Governor and his wife attended
the Naval and Military Ball at Laun-
ceston’s Albert Hall. Lady Clark’s black
silk mousseline had a spray of pink car-
nations on the shoulder. Major and Mrs.
Geoffrey Youl received the guests—he
is commanding officer of the 12th Bat-
talion. Mrs. Youl’s frock of rust-colored
satin had a green-and-gold sash knotted
in front. The stage was rigged up with
a bivouac effect—campfires and gum-
trees—and the supper table was very
effectively decorated in golden tints.
Marie Dakin chose “something blue”
at her wedding with Lawrie Murdoch at
St. David’s, nothing less than the wed-
ding garment itself. It was of ice-blue
satin with a silver dewdrop effect, and
the veil of pale-blue tulle fell from a
topknot of lily-of-the-valley. The ’maids,
Bessie Crisp, Noela Robinson (Melb.)
and Phillis Watchorn, were contrasts in
frocks of stiffened shrimp-pink net
mounted on slips of embossed satin in
the same shade, and their bouquets were
of shaded tulips. About 160 guests
gathered at Hadley’s afterwards, at the
bidding of the bride’s parents. The Mur-
doch clan spreads its ramifications all
over the Speck, and the Dakins have a
big inter-State circle.
Jean Helen, second of the Howard
Buchanan girls, formerly of Hobart, met
Stuart Pixley, of Lymington, at the altar
of St. David’s. The wedding dress was
of ivory moire—a period frock —cut with
long sleeves over the knuckles and
square train. The veil was an heirloom
in her mother’s family, Limerick lace
over 100 years old which had served
seven brides through several generations.
The ’maids were Isobel Pixley, Lindsay
Buchanan, Alison Simpson and Kembra
Ricards. Their frocks of apricot organdie
were sprigged with silvery white flowers,
cut with full skirts and puffed sleeves.
Haloes of roses matched bouquets. Fes-
tivities followed at the Imperial, where
about 100 guests were entertained.
Dr. Bruce Hamilton’s late-afternoon
party, chiefly given for the brides of
the month, was a very smart affair. His
big new house is specially built for en-
tertaining, as the rooms and hall can all
be thrown open at once, so that, although
there were about 150 guests, there was
no crowding. All the spring fashions
seemed to come out at once, and the
little basqued coats and impertinent hats
are so very cocktailish in themselves that
they exactly fitted their setting.
The rain held off most obligingly till
later in the day for Mrs. E. H. Webster’s
morning-tea-enm-garden-party. The big
crush of guests was able to disperse
itself all about the lovely grounds, where
azaleas, rhodendrons, roses, stocks,
peonies and a thousand other flowers
were in full bloom.
Brownell’s “fashion musicale” at the
City Hall, the proceeds of which went to
the Child Welfare Association, drew
enormous crowds, not all composed of
women either. Sheila Martin and two
mainland mannequins were the chief
pegs for the pretty fashions, and “uppers
and unders” of most attractive character
were displayed. Ron Richards con-
ducted an orchestra, and the beneficiary
association turned on afternoon-tea.
Pre-wedding parties continue to
occupy the attention of hostesses who
show a growing desire to have something
“different.” Mrs. E. J. Thorp’s party
for Peggy Dick at Jutland was a cheery
one, and a big affair was that given by
the Parsons girls, Sheila and Anita, for
Peggy Dick, Wanda Piesse and Jean
Buchanan, who had just arrived, with
her mother, from Sydney.
Alys Jones’s exhibition of art needle-
work was a special feature of the
women’s section at Launceston Show.
Some of the articles were calculated to
make feminine mouths water and male
eyes goggle, notably a quilted georgette
dressing-gown in peach-pink, the design
being a duplicate of one used for Queen
Mary. The undies were charming beyond
description, and the stitchery of a fine-
ness unbelievable.


WAKE UP! and take BARTZ
Nature's Own Remedy for Reducing
Miss I\ M. writes: —
“At the Sydney Show I was given a free sample
of ‘Bartz Salts.’ These I tried, and found them
wonderful. I work in an office with a large number
of girls, and after reading on the package that
‘Bartz Salts’ were for reducing, we all started on a
course of ‘Bartz Salts,’ and every one of us has
reduced during the past 3 weeks. I have tried
several reducing medicines, but ‘Bartz’ is the only
one for me. I have reduced 11 lbs., and feel 100
per cent, better. I used to feel tired and could not
walk far; now I can walk 20 miles and still smile.
Wishing ‘Bartz’ every success.”
Obtainable at all Chemists and Stores.
CHEAPER and BETTER 1/- & 2/- JARS
The Union Trustee Company of Australia, Ltd.
(Incorporated in Victoria.)
2 O’CONNELL STREET - SYDNEY
ACTS AS
Executor, Trustee, Administrator, Attorney, Etc.
(Established 1885.)
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE AND TOWNSVILLE.
Amongst the advantages derived: —
The Company never dies., never leaves the State, and is always available.
ABSOLUTE SECURITY, EXPERT & ECONOMICAL SERVICE,
N.S.W. DIRECTORS:
F. E. Bryant (Chairman); Hon. Sir Henry Braddon K.8.E., M.L.C. (Vice-Chairman);
Sir Graham Waddell, K.8.E.; James Kidd; W. H. Mackay; J. Beresford Grant;
Colin A. Sinclair. Manager: J. G. H. Shipway.
(WRITE OR CALL FOR FREE EXPLANATORY BOOKLET.)
Curjard
White Star
Make Your Trip
to England a
Round - the-
World Tour
SPECIALITY reduced rates enable you to
make your trip to England a Kouml-
the-World tour, including a crossing of the
Atlantic in one of the giant luxury liners
of the Cunard White Star Fleet, such as the
R.M.S. “QUEEN MARY,” 81,235 tons
R.M.S. “BERENGARIA,” 52,100 tons
R.M.S. “AQUITANIA,” 45,647 tons
Enquire also regarding the low rates
obtainable on the Britannia, Franconia,
Samaria types of vessels.
FREE, a folder, detailing the routes and
fares, showing you the savings. Write or
call and consult us before you complete
any arrangements.
JOINT PASSENGER AGENTS:
PORT LINE, DALGETY & C 0„ LTD.,
1-7 Bent St., Sydney, or 2 O’Connell St., Sydney.
(Incorporated in England.)
Cunard
White Star
The Long White Cloud
Same Old Tune
As Opposition-leader Mr. Savage prom-
ised tax-relief and social-service exten-
sions. The rest of the Labor platform
was aimed at socialisation. Maorilanders
are getting that; they are still waiting
for the tax-cuts.
Yet Mr. Savage has had buoyant
revenues, and taxation for the current
year is estimated to yield £4,000,000 more
than in 1936-37. The whole of this
addition, says Finance Minister Nash,
will be needed to improve the lots of
pensioners, unemployed and persons on
small incomes, in accordance with the
Labor Government’s ideal of more equit-
able national income distribution.
Maoriland is not a country of large
incomes. In 1935-36, 4926 people earned
more than £lOOO and only 176 of these
topped the £5OOO mark. The bulk of the
taxation is paid by people receiving from
£2OO to £4OO a year. They suffer all the
cost-of-living increases and, in compari-
son with what they
contribute, receive
little from social-
service benefits.
The Labor social-
service vote this year
exceeds £12,000,000,
which seems to be
getting out of pro-
portion to the
number who find it
(the population is
only 1,500,000) and
the much smaller
percentage who
share its benefits.
The Nationalists,
piously praising
humanitarian legis-
lation, still talk of a
“building-up” pro-
cess as opposed to
Labor’s “levelling”
idea, and promise
tax-cuts at the same
time. They won’t
win office with this
sort of earwash.
“M.”: Procedure at the various Maori-
land schools for bad drivers will dis-
appoint horror-minded Australians who
imagine it follows that introduced in
America. Careless Maorilanders sent
along by local Beaks don’t have to in-
spect the corpses of their victims, nor
are they taken to hospital operating
theatres where more fortunate crash-
victims are being put together again.
Compulsory attendance is limited to
drivers guilty of dangerous speeds. Be-
cause classes are small, the traffic officers
conducting them can concentrate on in-
dividual delinquents for an hour a week ;
and the course aims at improving their
sense of road responsibility. First of all,
models are used to show each culprit
how he might have avoided the crash ;
then reaction tests are imposed, along
with street maps showing the incidence
of accidents at city intersections and
other danger spots. Gradually, the pupil
is taken right through the traffic laws
until, on graduation day, he must sit for
a “proficiency” examination and be
passed by independent authorities. The
one trouble is that tuition still comes
after accidents.
* * * *
“Kea”: Scene, an up-country pub, with
a bunch of regulars discussing political
oratory. “Best speaker I ever heard is
Semple,” one enthusiast declared. The
rest joined in, giving favorites and rea-
sons for preference all except Sam.
“Who do you like, Sam?” inquired some-
one at last. “Coates,” was the brief
reply. “Go on! Where’d y’ hear
him?” Sam mumbled that he had heard
him down at Smith’s hotel, where he spoke
one day in the bar. “What did he say?”
asked the interested audience. “Just
‘What’s yours?’ explained Sam. “And I
sez ‘Beer.’ ”
* * * *
“Mak”: Housing surveys have become
popular Maoriland pastimes since Labor
initiated its building scheme (B.
13/10/’37), and people cloaked in various
forms of authority are finding out how
others live. One group operating in Wel-
lington has just discovered an “unsatis-
factory trend” towards rooming on near-
city hillsides; too many people, they
say, eat and sleep in single rooms. No
housing scheme will ever relieve this
position in a city with Wellington’s physi-
cal characteristics. The business area is
“Well , of all the nerve! They Wont take cheques!"
concentrated along the harbor front, and
its residential suburbs stretch back
through towering hills; unmarried city
workers find it more economical and con-
venient to spend their working weeks in
single rooms within easy reach of their
places of employment than to tram in
from the outer suburbs. And, as the sur-
vey chaps will find when they comb the
Parliament House district, many of
Maoriland’s legislators themselves occupy
single rooms during session, and take
their meals at Bellamy’s.
* * * *
“Xo”: Business interests in the South
Island as well as in Wellington aren’t at
all happy over trans-Pacific cargo diver-
sions to Auckland (B. 6/10/’37). It isn’t
so much Wellington’s loss of the Pan-
American Airways terminal that is worry-
ing them as a growing tendency for over-
seas agencies to establish commercial
headquarters in the northern city, and im-
port by ships making the Waitemata their
first Maoriland port. Some cargo vessels
which unload first at Auckland take
weeks to work through coastal ports on
their way to Wellington, Lyttelton and
the Bluff, and northern importers have
time to send their goods through the coun-
try before more southerly firms can get
delivery of similar lines carried by the
dawdling ship. Sharing the same business
handicap has brought some South
Islanders closer to Wellington, and they
are watching with appreciation the Wel-
lington efforts to convince overseas in-
terests that Maoriland has other ports
than Auckland.
* * * *
“Kiwit”: There is a coincidence tale
that reads like fiction at the back of the
1937 opening of South Westland’s Okarito
harbor (B. 6/10/’37). When the gold
rushes of the ’sixties and ’seventies
attracted the world’s wanderers to Maori-
land’s West Coast, Captain Souter was
one of the schooner skippers who found
it more profitable to freight miners and
their supplies up and down the coast
than to scratch the mountains for gold.
Okarito was one of his favorite ports o’
call. After the gold boom, there was
little coastal trade to dying Okarito, and
its harbor was allowed to sand up;
seven years ago it was almost useless
from a shipping viewpoint. Now white-
pine shortages in the north have turned
Maoriland’s attention back to its South
Westland ports. The chairman of the
private co. which expects to have Okarito
ready for smaller coastal tubs inside a
month is W. B. Souter, a grandson of
the old sailor-trader.
* * * *
“Fergus”: Even if the official white-
pine survey does err on the side of con-
servatism (B. 13/10/’37) it is unlikely
that' appreciable supplies of this butter-
box timber will be exported to Australia
at any future date. Maoriland is having
difficulty in meeting its own butter-box
requirements, and a growing local de-
mand is expected to accentuate this diffi-
culty in a few seasons. White pine
achieved its success as an export butter-
box timber by reason of its odorless and
non-resinous qualities as well as its clean,
white appearance. But the evolution of
parchment foil papers capable of pro-
tecting butter from unsuitable qualities
in other woods makes the present Aus-
tralian search for suitable substitutes
more easy than would have been the
case a few years ago.
* * *
“Kohi”: A treasure story that dates
back to old Melbourne has been revived
in Maoriland. Fifty years ago a mailboat
loaded £40,000 worth of Vic. gold dust.
It wasn’t missed until the strongroom was
opened by London officials at the end of
the voyage ; three Melbourne men had
lifted it. Not knowing that they would
have plenty of time to make their escape,
they pirated a Port Phillip cutter and
sailed the booty across the Tasman. They
landed at Jackson’s Bay in the extreme
south of Maoriland’s West Coast, and
took the gold ashore by dinghy to hide
it in a river-bank cave. A sudden storm
wrecked the cutter before they could get
back aboard, drowned one and left a
foodless couple on a wild and deserted
coastline. They disagreed on direction,
and one struck north and the other
south ; latter was never heard of again,
but his mate was picked up and died in a
coast hospital. Before he passed out, he
told of the hidden treasure. Several ex-
peditions, one of which saw the remains
of the cutter and decided the cave had
been covered by a landslide, couldn’t
locate the gold—but it is still there,
£lOO,OOO worth of it now, according to
the Invercargill tale-teller. Anyone in
Victoria know anything of the 50-year z
old robbery?
ak :je sji $
“Xo”: The South Island Wigley family
that holds three pilots’ licenses —father
and two sons —shares this Maoriland dis-
tinction (B. 25/8/’37) with Palmerston
North’s “Flying” Wests. Father E. V.
West, a city architect, took his ticket
about two years ago, beating elder son
Peter by a short joystick. Younger son
West has just qualified, and is now
trying to catch the air-hour totals estab-
lished by his elders. Dad West has
already topped the 100-hour mark and
is entitled to his lead ; he has been an
aviation stalwart in Manawatu since the
aero club was formed in 1928. And he
has another air record of which he can
be justly proud—it was his pencil that
designed the splendid Union Airways
hangars at Palmerston North and
Dunedin.
JJS ❖ *
“D.N.”: Just what guesswork aero-
club pilots must employ when they are
forced below the 200 ft. altimeter mark
to get under low-hung clouds (B.
13/10/’37) was illustrated by one flier
who gave evidence at the open inquiry
into the loss of a ’plane and its two
occupants over Cook Strait on March
23. He said his machine and the miss-
ing one ascended to 5000 ft. after leaving
Nelson ; that height is regarded by inter-
island Maoriland fliers as sufficient to
provide safe gliding distance over the
Strait in event of engine trouble. But
both ’planes soon ran into a cloud ceil-
ing at 1500 ft. and had to descend to pre-
serve visibility. Witness said he flew
as low as 40ft. seeking an opening, “the
cloud at that stage being a blank wall
and the surface of the sea very hard to
distinguish from the mist.” Altimeters
carrying a first graduation of 200 ft. are
no use at lower altitudes, and both these
pilots were forced to rely on their own
flying sense and air experience to keep
out of the sea —in fact, guesswork for
any pilot deficient in these qualities.


THE NEW
AMPIIOH
“T” MODEL
AUDITORIUM TYPE
DYNAMIC SPEAKER
This new audi-
torium speaker
is Amplion’s
latest and finest
product, and is
a masterpiece of
Australian
design and
manufacture.
df
Fitted with Amplion’s latest niulti-
impedancfe transformer (large TS type),
with optional impedances available from
2500 to 12,000 ohms, single or push-pull.
PRICE £7/10/-
SEND FOR PUBLICATION 55,
GIVING DETAILS OE THE
CO3IPLETE AMPLION RANGE.
AMPLION (A/SIA), PTY. LTD.,
66 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Somebody's buying
a Better Radio now.
Mallard
MASTER RADIO
Prices frnm f,V2 / i9 / 6~
sd
YOUR MONEY
That’s why (JAM has its aerial
on top of the ranges—so that
its programmes will cover the
State—so that the advertiser’s
message will reach the maximum
number of listeners, and bring
maximum results.
6AM
Prince’s Chambers,
William Street,
Perth,
Western Australia.
THE ONLY RECEIVER
/rt t&f DISCRIMINATING
LISTENER. . .
Listeners who demand the most exacting:
quality in their Radio quickly discern and
appreciate the perfection of the Ultimate
Receiver.
Ultimate Receivers are designed for your
enjoyment. Their unusual power makes
them unrivalled for world-wide reception.
You can tour the world at will, delight in
music and entertainment from numerous
foreign countries, with the same smooth
reception as your local stations.
Other features that make Ultimate the
perfect Radio are the increased sensitivity,
absolute accuracy in tuning, and the
glorious tonal realism.
no YOU KNOW THAT NO
FEWER THAN 798 VERI-
FIED STATIONS HAVE
BEEN FOGGED ON A
STANDARD ULTIMATE
RECEIVER?
PRICES
FROM
£29/15/-
ULTIMATE
SOLE AUSTRALIAN CONCESSIONAIRES,
GEO. BROWN & CO..PTY..LTD
Electrical and Industral Engineers
Write for full particulars:
267 CLARENCE ST., SYDNEY.
Telephone: M 2544 (2 lines).
RADIO NEWS
DON B. KNOCK’S PAGES.
Battery-operated Valve-
checker.
A country reader sends along this
idea for a useful and simple battery-
operated valve-tester which, connected to
a milliammeter shunted to 10ma., gives an
accurate test on battery valves. It costs
only a few shillings, and takes very little
time to construct.
Components.
The assembly consists of one four-,
five- and six-pin combination socket or
three sockets wired in parallel. In the
diagram, only one socket is shown, for
simplicity’s sake. A four-point switch is
used, with one point unconnected, and
there are four single-pole single-throw
toggle switches, a dial lamp and socket,
one 400-ohm resistor, one 40,000-ohm
resistor, a push-button switch, two ter-
minals or pin-jacks for meter connec-
tion, a grid-cap and the necessary wiring.
Panelling and casing can be left to in-
dividual taste. The original is housed in
the lid of a portable multimeter.
Operation.
It will be noticed that both the fuse
and 40,000-ohm resistor protect the
meter in case of an inter-electrode short-
circuit in a valve under test. Connec-
tions are made to the receiver accumu-
lator and a 45-volt B battery from the
A and B leads of the attachment, and
these leads can be twisted up to make
a four-wire cable. The four-point switch
is set, in the case of a valve with grid-
pin, to make connection with the pin,
and if the valve is of the grid-cap type
the external cap is fitted, and the switch
set at the “open” position. The toggle
switches, except the one that goes to
the grid under test, are closed. The
valve is inserted in the appropriate
socket and the meter connected up. The
first deflection is noted, and on press-
ing the button switch the second deflec-
tion is shown.
It is easy, before putting the instru-
ment to regular use, to calibrate a few
valves known to be in good order pre-
viously, or a test can be made with a
commercial valve-tester.
It will be seen from the diagram that
a length of wire with a lug attached is
connected to the meter negative. This
is used for testing valves where the
anodes are on top
of the glass bulb,
such as the old
E 442. When test-
ing twin valves,
such as the 19,
both grids are
tested in turn, but
it must be re-
membered to dis-
connect the meter
positive when re-
arr a n ging the
switching, other-
wise the fuse will
be blown. When
the switching has
been rearranged,
it is wise to check
over before con-
necting the meter.
The parts in the
diagram are: M,
meter shunt to
lOma. ; GC, grid
cap; PL, plate
lug; R 1 400
ohms, R 2 40,000
ohms ; SI, S 2, S 3,
54, single - pole
single-throw
toggle switches;
55, four - point
switch ; SB, push-
button switch ; F,
fuse bulb.
Maros.
Australian National Field
Day.
The 1937 Federal Convention of the
W.I.A. decided io conduct a field day
for amateurs interested in portable trans-
mitters similar to the one held annually
in Britain. The first contest will com-
mence on 4/12/’37 at 1800 E.A.S.T. and
conclude at 1800 E.A.S.T. on 5/12/’37.
It is limited to portable stations operated
within the Commonwealth and Mandated
Territories.
Portable station is defined as one where
power is not derived from public or
private supply mains, and not located in
any occupied dwelling. A rising scale
of points is awarded for contacts from
local to distant overseas points. Although
power is necessarily limited in most cases,
conditions are far superior to those at
the average home location owing to the
absence of interference from adjacent
stations and freedom from electrical
noises from power lines. During the
British N.F.D., many Australian ama-
teurs have been able to communicate
direct with portable G stations operating
with low power in open country.
This Australian N.F.D. should stimu-
late interest in the design and building
of portable and mobile apparatus which
may be of use to the country in time of
emergency.
D. B. K.
Home-made Variables for
Transmission.
One of the chief troubles the trans-
mitting experimenter encounters is the
high cost of commercially-produced vari-
able tuning condensers fdr high-voltage
work. But ceramic stand-off insulators
are readily obtainable, and condensers
can be made up with a few of these and
some sheet aluminium or other metal.
The drawings show a simple mechani-
cal arrangement for a home-made trans-
mitting condenser. By means of a
screw thread one set of plates is arranged
to slide into mesh with the other set,
thus constituting a plain single capa-
city condenser. It requires little imagina-
tion to rig up a split-stator affair in the
same manner.
The slide bars carrying the “rotor”
section are of square section brass,
with sliding sleeves of brass made to fit.
The dimensions given will suit most
needs, and the only point to observe is
that the edges of the metal plates should
be rounded off and burnished. Sharp
edges are unkind to high R.F. currents.
The cost works out at only a few shil-
lings plus a little bench work.
D. B. K.
Radio Comment.
The resume (B. 6/10/’37) of
the pioneer radio work done by Chas.
Maclurcan makes good reading. In
these days, when things in the radio
world are much easier, with a more
readily available supply of equipment,
literature and technical advice, one
marvels at the remarkable performances
put up by the amateur 12 or 14 years
ago ; and in those days C. D. Maclurcan
was the outstanding Australian amateur.
* * * *
“D.8.K.”: A British amateur men-
tioned during telephony communication
on 20 metres the hopelessness of using
40 metres owing to the terrific interfer-
ference at night-time in Europe, chiefly
from Spanish telephony stations on the
band. On 40 metres on the morning
of 14/10/’37, between the hours of 5
and 7 a.m. Eastern Australian time,
there were at least a dozen such stations.
Propaganda to the “other side” appears
to be the main item. Calls can be heard
informing relatives that someone is well,
wounded or killed in action. Lengthy
speeches are launched from both sides,
and on the stations closing down ‘ The
Internationale” is played from those on
one side and a Fascist march from the
other. Ihe stations are heard quite
strongly.


adio Licences
. .. I ' . ' -. "T* ' • •" s • , \
cost the same, no matter how your set
works. To get your money's worth,
re-va/ve wl
ith
DISTRIBUTORS:
AMALGAMATED
WIRELESS (A/SIA) LTD.
47 York Street, Sydney.
167-169 Queen St., Melbourne.
AUSTRALIAN
GENERAL @ ELECTRIC
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane,
Adelaide, Hobart.
NATIONAL ELECTRICAL
£ ENGINEERING CO.LTD.
Wellington,
New Zealand.
fs
nTnTo ucEEB-/ it)
a
\
r~>
c ,
nsv
r
THE WORLD'S STANDARD
RADIO VALVES
Advertisement of Amalgamated Wireless Valve Co. Pty. Ltd.
Amateur Chatter.
The writer’s new T.R.F. type ultra-
short-wave receiver has been completed,
and is going well. With plug-in coils for
24, 5 and 10 metres, but mainly for five-
One often hears of receivers rendered inactive by dust
or insects, but it rarely happens that anything larger
gets inside. This photograph comes from Mrs. Carsley
Morrin, of Pukekohe (M.L). The set suddenly
failed; the mouse had become entangled in high-
voltage wiring and been electrocuted.
metre use, this receiver has a 956 acorn
R.F. stage ganged with a 954 regenerative
detector, plus 41 pentode audio. For
super-regeneration a type EBC3 is used.
After initial tests on battery supply a
special humless power pack was made
up with a Westinghouse H.T.9 dry recti-
fier, double chokes and 32mfd. filter. The
result is perfectly smooth C.W. operation
at five metres, and the receiver handles
The Eddystone All-World Eight battery superhet
receiver (B. 13/1 0/ '37). What look like electric irons
to the left are the plug-in coil units ; the three coils
for each wave range are in the screened box with
handle, and are plugged in together. The tuning dial
has two ratios of 20-to-1 and 100-to-1 speeds.
almost as easily as a conventional Wide-
World Two on 40 or 20 metres.
After a few years of searching for
weak signals on super-regenerators of
all kinds, this receiver’s ability to handle
C.W. and telephony signals as a
straight regenerator is very striking.
Some idea of the C.W. sensitivity may
be had when it is realised that har-
monics from stations many miles away,
working on 20 and 10 metres can be
copied and held at RB. With super-
regeneration on, such harmonics simply
cannot be heard.
On 10/10/’37 the
VK-ZL contest was in
full swing, and
throughout the day
and night the steady
harmonics on five
metres could be
copied from VKs
2HZ, 2VN, 2PX,
2EL, 2EG, 2ABC and
2TI working on the
DX bands. The
super-regeneration is
useful for ordinary
five-metre ’phone com-
munication, but it is
much easier to locate
weak signals with
C.W. reception. Such
a receiver is made
possible only by the
use of acorn valves
with their outstanding
u.-s.-w. characteristics.
A heterodyne oscil-
lator was first incor-
porated, at 10 metres,
with the five-metre
harmonic beating with
the detector, but, de-
spite all precautions,
interlocking was ex-
perienced. This will
be overcome by mak-
ing an oscillator en-
tirely separate from
the receiver. The re-
ceiver, which will be
fully described later,
is strongly recom-
mended as an ad-
vanced and highly-
efficient u.-s.-w. type
for local and DX work.
The first of the five-metre schedules
was kept on the Belgian (ON4AU) trans-
missions from midnight to 3 a.m. Syd-
ney time on 10/10/’37, but nothing was
recorded. It is anticipated that the com-
ing summer will be good for five-metre
DX, as already the 10-metre band is
showing good October form. Americans,
Two new Eddy stone 'transmitting condensers which
will be released in Australia before Christmas. The
larger is a split-stator type and the smaller a single
stator. Both have DL9 insulation and are suitable
for powers up to 300 watts. Other Eddystone con-
densers for powers up to 1kw. with frequentite insula-
tion will also be available.
Hawaiians, Filipinos, Maorilanders and
lapanese can be heard at intervals dur-
ing the day, and on 9 /10/’37 G6WY
and OH3NP were heard around 11 p.m.
Inter-State and overseas co-operation
is necessary on five metres during the
next five months. Perseverance will
bring results. The writer will be pleased
to arrange definite five-metre schedules
with any distant station interested in
advanced five-metre working.
VK4CW Warwick (Q.) claims that his
call is being misused and requests VKs
to keep an ear open. VK4CW works at
present only on 7mc. VK2NO’s port-
able call has also been misappropriated,
for a card received from England reports
14mc. C.W. signals from VK2NU. The
call VK2NU is used for mobile and
portable work on five metres only, and
has not been used by the writer on 20
metres.
VK2NO.
New "G"-type Radiotrons.
So that manufacturers may be able to
use octal-based glass valves in receivers
during the coming season, a complete
series of “G” valves has been added to
the Radiotron range. With the excep-
tion of the IMSG, these types are iden-
tical electrically in every respect with
the existing glass types, as listed. Equiva-
lents are:
Existing types. “G” types.
IC4 IMSG
ID4 ILSG
IK4 IKSG
IK6 IK7G
687 S 6GBG
IMSG has higher plate resistance and
higher amplification factor.
Two additional types not included in
the American Radiotron range will be
manufactured in Australia, 6U7G and
686 G, exact equivalents of 6D6 and 75
respectively.
The complete range to be manufac-
tured in Australia is: IC7G, IDSG,
IFSG, II6G, IKSG, IK7G, ILSG,
IMSG, SY3G, 6ABG, 686 G, 6F6G,
6GBG, 6J7G, 6U7G, 6V6G. It is ex-
pected that the new series will be
adopted throughout Australia as the
standard for receivers.
Vesta Handilite.
It is easy enough, but not always con-
venient, to attach two flex leads with a
six-volt lamp to a small accumulator, and
use this as a portable light. The wires
get in the way, and the lamp usually gets
broken in the end. The Vesta Battery
Co., Leichhardt (N.S.W.), has a portable
and rechargeable electric light which will
fill the bill. It gives 35 hours’ continuous
light for each recharge (48 hours’ inter-
mittent), and is estimated to be good for
5000 hours’ total use if properly treated.
It weighs only 91b. and is in effect a six-
volt accumulator with a four c.p. three
watt single-contact lamp. The whole fits
into a carrying cradle of steel and alu-
minium. The lamp, in a plated standard,
is arranged, with finger switch, •on the
detachable hard rubber lid.
The light can be beamed in any direc-
tion by twisting the reflector round. If
desired, the reflector cap can be removed
altogether,
thus giving a
good light in
all directions.
The Handilite
can also be
used to oper-
ate several
lamps if re-
quired, or a
more brilliant
lamp than the
one supplied
as standard i
can be fitted.
It takes a two-
ampere charge
at the cost of
only a few
pence, and is
a safe and use-
ful accessory
for the practi-
cal car-owner for garage work. It is in
extensive use in the form illustrated in
Australian and M.L. GQvernment and
shire council departments.
The Question Box.
Full name and address must accompany all
queries; and write legibly to avoid con-
fusion in addresses. Queries are dealt with
by post where the matter may be urgent,
otherwise answers will appear in this column.
Termites have bored many holes in the hard
rubber containers of my house-lighting accumu-
lators and have thus released all the electrolyte
solution. How can I repair the containers ? I
have tried melting together an equal quantity
of pitch and resin and applying in a molten
state, but the solution is too strong, and finds
its way through. —6o3.
First wash the containers thoroughly in
petrol, kerosene or a fly-spray solution to de-
stroy any active termites, then fill the holes
with acid-resisting molten sealing compound,
obtainable from any accumulator manufacturer.
Arrange the bank of accumulators on a metal
stand, or, if wood must be used, stand the legs
in jars filled with kerosene. This will effectively
stop any further attacks.
* * * *
(1) Where can full particulars of the Wide-
World Two be obtained? (2) Approximate cost
of set minus batteries and headphones? (3)
Has a better set of this type been developed ?
■—6ol.
(1) The Wide-World Two was first described
in B. 15/8/’34, and was so popular that back
copies became unobtainable. It was then de-
scribed in improved form in B. 21/8/’35. A
few copies of this date are available from this
office, 6d. each, plus postage. (2) About £6 10s.
with good components. (3) No. The receiver
is an electron-coupled detector and pentode
audio stage, and it would be impossible to get
any better results from two valves.
* v * *
Recently I acquired a second-hand Band-
master receiver. What is the purpose of the
various knobs, two on each side of the dial ?
602.
Examine the chassis for a type or serial
number, and write asking the Australian
General Electric Co., 95 Clarence-street, Syd-
ney, distributors of the receivers, to supply
the information.
* * * *
(1) l propose to add a preselector in the form
of a stage of tuned R.F. for increased selec-
tivity to my Ideal Amateur superhet. The
difficulty is that there is no room in the re-
ceiver cabinet, and the layout of the station is
such that the lead from the plate circuit of the
preselector valve to the coil of the first detector
stage must be about two feet long. Is the en-
closed circuit “A” suitable, and are the values
correct ? (2) Would circuit “B” be any better ?
(3) Would the long lead ( shielded ) be fatal ?
(4) Would the tendency for the long lead to
pick up stray R.F. be minimised by making
the return one of a twisted pair, enclosed to-
gether in braided shield, as shown in the
sketch? (5) Apart from stray R.F., is there any
serious objection to a long lead in such a posi-
tion ? —602.
(1) and (2) Circuit “A” is better than “B,”
as the plate voltage is confined to the pre-
selector unit. The long lead will be less likely
to pick up R.F. Values are correct. (3) No. (4)
Yes. This is the better idea and should ensure
complete immunity from R.F. pickup. (5) No,
only the matter of inconvenience between tuning
controls.


HITS
LYS
JS
PROOF
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in
every Roll of Netting.
Fencing Wire
» m ■ ■■■ m
j, :
tfj -V
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Brothers & Co., Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street, Sydney.
SPECIFY "LYSAGHT’S” WIRE, WIRE NETTING, ETC.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
Pasture and Spinning Quality.
"Bungaree”: Pasture improvement,
particularly on the N.S.W. tablelands,
has raised the question whether sheep
grazed on the richer pastures will grow
coarser wool.
For purposes of a C.S. and I.R. test at
Merryville, Yass (N.S.W.), with two
similar drafts of W. T. Merriman hog-
gets, one lot were run on natural pasture-
one sheep to the acre —the second on sub.
clover pasture—-three sheep to the acre.
At one period the growth was so great
that extra sheep brought stocking to 24.5
sheep p.a.
The average initial weight of the sheep
was 591 b. and they were of similar type
in conformation and wool.
The classer’s report on the fleeces of
the natural-pasture sheep gives their spin-
ning count as bulk 80/74’s, with a small
percentage of 70’s. The improved-pas-
ture sheep were largely 74/70’s, in equal
proportions, while the percentage of 80’s
decreased and that of under 70’s in-
creased till they were equal. It seems
that, where spinning count is concerned,
improved pastures do exert a strengthen-
ing or coarsening effect on wool.
There was little difference in yield,
any advantage being on the side of the
imp.-pasture sheep, and in color and
handle the fleeces were similar. But the
imp.-pasture sheep put it all over the
controls in fleece value. They averaged
over more in length of staple and
cut 11.121 b. of wool compared with
8.921 b. of the natural-pasture sheep.
The improved pasture carried three
sheep per acre, so that the return per acre
is 33.361 b. compared with 8.921 b. The
only possible offset would be in the range
of market absorption of particular types.
Four independent experts valued the
wool. That of the control sheep was
valued at 27d.-28d. per pound. The imp.-
pasture fleeces were classed into two lots
for quality and valued at 29d. and 26d.-
27d. per pound respectively, so that, on
the whole, any decrease in ; spinning
quality caused by richer pasture is more
than balanced by the better nourished
state and length of staple.
Both lots of sheep were drenched for
parasites, but the imp.-past. sheep showed
a lesser degree of infestation at the end
of the test. The best proof of the
value of improved pastures was the
appearance of the animals. At the final
weighing, the control sheep averaged
79.261 b. hveweight and the improved-pas-
ture sheep 100.551 b., a difference of 211 b.
per sheep.
Dusty Wools.
“Murrawong”: Dusty wools, particu-
larly clips carrying dust or fleeces from
red-land sheep, open up badly. To make
the most of them the classer should
follow their progress to the sale floor.
Dusty backs should be baled as a
separate line. They will yield 5 p.c. to
15 p.c. less than the fleece and broken.
Broken is often the cleanest, highest-
yielding line of a dusty clip, and often
sells ,at fleece figures. So pieces should
be competently handled and broken thor-
oughly, skirted and cleaned up.
Condition is less important than in
clean wools. Yield is greatly affected by
the presence of dust and sand. Although
this may show only on the tip of a bin
of comparatively bright fleeces, by the
time that wool has been pressed and
travelled to the wool store the dust in
the tip will have seeped right through
the bale.
Keep all heavy yellow fleeces out of
the main fleece lines, but don’t make
extra -lines for the sake of condition.
Keep fleece lines even in length and
quality—these factors are not affected by
scouring.
There is no need for the same sound-
ness in dusty wools as in those from
clean, free districts. The former are
chiefly topmaking sorts which do not need
the tensile strength of spinners’ wools.
Any fleeces showing a decided break in
staple should, however, be kept apart.
The less wool is handled, the better it
will open up.
Don’t be afraid of heavy bales of
fleece. Dust has less chance of working
through tightly-pressed than through
loose bales, and dusty wools are usually
dry enough to avoid caking.
Ewes for Fat Lambs.
“Corriedale”: The sire is only 50 p.c.
of the business. Southdown, Shropshire,
Dorset Horn, Ryeland, Romney and B.
Leicester are well-proved rams for cross-
ing. A sire can be selected from them
to do a good job anywhere. It is in the
ewes to mate with them that our lamb
industry is losing ground.
A fat-lamb ewe needs more than a
good square carcass. She has to mother
one or two prime lambs for export. They
must be sold “sappy” and young, and
a good milking ewe is essential. She
must also cut a payable fleece.
There are three crosses capable of
doing the job well —Border or English
Leicester, Romney- and Lincoln, each
joined with the merino.
First-class ewes of the type needed
can rarely be bought in the saleyards,
and have to be bred on farms. Graziers
often use shortwool rams to get a nicely-
carcassed lamb, but make no attempt to
buy a few rams of longwool type to
mate with merino or comeback ewes.
There is a fortune awaiting anyone
who will breed good-quality Corriedale-
type ewes in the next few years.
Small Clips and Branding.
“C.V.S.”: Small wool clips, particu-
larly from wheatgrowers, often arrive in
store badly prepared.
It is not uncommon to see the side of
a bale carrying marks “Pieces, from
XYZ, Littletown, to Wool Sellers, Ltd.,
Bigtown, Bellies,” with “No. 4” and the
weight written across the rest, the whole
drawn freehand in large tar letters over
the bale.
Large brands are undesirable. Bales
should be branded on the square side
(if pressed) with the name of the clip,
description and number of bale, and on
top with name of clip and number,
Stencil plates and brush should be used.
For a few bales a serviceable stencil
may be cut from cardboard a coat of
varnish will prevent it becoming moist.
The foregoing bale should appear
“XYZ./LTN, BLS and PCS, 4.” Letters
should be about 4in. high.
Other avoidable faults in preparation
are chaffy wool, fleeces containing skirts
and bellies, black wool mixed with white
and fleeces tied with string.
c , .
shortage or ohearers.
“Murrawong”: “Albarmount’s” sugges-
tion (B. 6/10/’37) of utilising country
showground pavilions as training schools
for shearers looks all right on paper.
But schools would have to be conducted
outside the shearing season, and in the
off season the supply of woolly sheep for
learners to practise oh would be a prob-
lem. Even though the course lasted only
a month the cost of teaching one pupil
would be high, and his prospects of work
under present conditions would be
equally small.
“Albarmount” dislikes the proposed
scheme of engaging one bona fide
learner in every four shearers employed,
“As YOU say, it isn't CRICKET.”
and of defining a learner as one who
has shorn less than 5000 sheep, yet with-
out these amendments his shearing
school would be practically useless. Con-
tractors would still refuse to employ
learners in their, teams.
Teaching, is important, but it is much
more important to make room for
learners in sheds where they can gain
practical experience and speed. After
a month’s “schooling” the pick of the
learners might be able to shear 40 sheep
a day, but few contractors would employ
them except as makeshifts at the peak of
the season when no other shearers were
available.
Admittedly there are thousands of
two- and three-stand sheds which would
be still exempt from' employing learners.
Of the 99,550 flockowners in the Com-
monwealth, only 11,779 have over 2000
sheep. But it would be obviously unfair
to ask a grazier with two stands to em-
ploy a learner-
I visited a N.S.W. shed recently wheie
six shearers were averaging 1000 merinos
a day—the “learner” was shearing 150.
The contract was at a fixed price per
sheep, and was cut so low that the in-
elusion of a real learner would have
meant the difference between profit and
loss to the contractor.
Lucerne Hoots,
“Stump Jump”: The height lucerne is
grazed at has a lot to do with the life
G f the stand.
Lucerne has a deep, heavy root sys-
tern which requires a certain percentage
c f i ea f above ground to gather carbon
dioxide and oxygen to build up its root-
fGOd reserves. If the plant is allowed to
grow until it begins to bud new shoots
from the crown, tests show that it has
suffered no loss of these reserves. But
should the growth be removed continu-
ally before this stage, the roots become
starved and die out.
Sheep are the worst offenders, especi-
ally when large paddocks are used. They
keep the crowns cropped closely for
months on end. If the area could be
quartered by fencing the plants would
get a chance to grow to the “new-shoot”
stage, each plot in rotation,
Big paddocks give neither animals nor
lucerne a fair deal. Rotating the grazing
of smaller areas of “new-shoot” growth
means catching the fodder at its richest
protein stage and when most of the risk
from bloat has passed.
N.Q. Dairying.
“Walliew”: Dairying on the Atherton
Tableland (Q.) is already fairly well ad-
vanced, and there is no reason why the
whole belt from Mackay northward
should not be producing. Drought is
unknown, and communication and trans-
port easy ; the question of fodder should
never be troublesome. But if dairying
methods remain as I know them in these
parts, progress will be slow.
In many cases it is carried on in a
primitive, haphazard fashion as a
. second string to the farmer’s bow.
Butter factories are few and far between.
Not enough care is given to pastures
and pasture management. More impor-
tant still, there are not enough good
herds.
Factory returns are not always a true
indication of individual fat-producers.
There must be tests to compare produc-


! .
i
&
■x®
ft
///
vs
BINING
I X YO K O HAMA
SIGHTSEEING
II LONDON
O H
Wherever you may go through-
out Australia or abroad you
will appreciate the safety and
convenience of Bank of New
South Wales Travellers’
Cheques.
m
Jj
■rsTTII
These cheques are honoured throughout the
world. They are cashed by all banks and by
the principal shipping and railway companies,
hotels, stores, tourist offices, etc., everywhere.
' ; : « . j ••/ ' J ...•. / * •
The Bank’s Travellers’ Cheques are issued in
amounts of £2, £5 and £lO, each cheque bearing
a specimen of the traveller’s signature for identi-
fication purposes. * \*
TRAVELLERS’ CHEQUES
OBTAINABLE THROUGH ANY BRANCH OF THE BANK
E287F.1937
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original;
Could anything
be simpler or
easier than this?
i
Just two half-
turns of the
top & the pen
is fully filled!
Many Australians in every
walk of life have already
invested in this modern
high-efficiency pen —the
pen that fills quicker and
can’t go wrong—to their
everlasting convenience
and satisfaction.
Swan and Swan alone can
offer such a pen. And
remember, this LEVER-
LESS Swan is simplicity
itself —there are no loose
parts to unscrew or get
lost. Why not decide to
see and try one of these
distinctive and thoroughly
up-to-date pens for your-
self ?
PRICE : 21/-. Also the
VISOFIL Swan, with
clip and mount of rolled
gold, 32/6. Ladies' Size,
without clip, 27/6. Other
Swans from 15/-. Black-
birds from ii/-. Fyne-
Poynt Pencils from 7 16. All
available in black or colours.
Made throughout in England
Any good
Stationer or
Jeweller
will be glad to
demonstrate
Ask to see the LEVERLESS
df
Always use
Swan Ink
in home
and Office
ti
Here is the finest Ink
you can possibly buy—
the ink that makes ALL
pens write better. In
blue-black (which is
absolutely permanent)
—also red, blue, green
or violet. Prices from
6d. Also special large
economical sizes for
offices, schools, hotels,
clubs, etc.
Mabie, Todd & Co. (Australia), Pty., Ltd., 6, Primrose Buildings,
255 A, George Street, Sydney.
A. 1.37
tion records and to see that the breeding
line is right. Unless the herd has all good
cows the farmer is losing. He must
always be ready to cull heavily.
The Queensland Department of Agri-
culture and Stock recently published
figures of an actual case of well-applied
herd-testing:
Season 1932-33: Herd of 34 averaged
1941 b. fat; total 65961 b. At end of season
26 were culled.
Season 1933-34: Herd reduced to 31
(eight from previous season, plus five tested
pedigree cows and 18 “springers” from
tested coyvs) averaged 3071 b. fat; total
95171 b.
Season 1934-35: The 31 cows averaged
3401 b. fat; total 10,5401 b.
Production thus increased over 60 p.c.,
and with fat at Is. a pound me income
rose from £330 to £527. Herd-testing
pays.
Pigs on Pasture.
“Pappamosca”: One of the first essen-
tials to remember about feeding pigs is
that their ration must contain a high pro-
portion of protein and a low-fibre con-
tent. Fibre is a deadly enemy of porcine
digestion when served up in excess.
. Grazing for pigs should be young and
juicy—preferably annuals, since these give
a heavy yield of green fodder. Pig fields
should, be cleaned up by ploughing much
more often than those in which other
animals are grazed —say, twice a year.
This throws under the rich manure pro-
duced by the animals and eases up the
soil, which is inclined to * be pugged
hard, especially in damp weather, by the
feeding porkers. _
There is nothing like lucerne for pigs,
and Kikuyu is about the best of the
grasses. There is little danger of either
being completely eaten out if progress
is watched carefully. Both will stand
heavy grazing.
Pasture proportion in the ration de-
pends on the age of the pig. Young pigs,
which are retarded in growth by a heavy
ration, should take about one-third of
their dinners from the pasture, while at
least three-quarters of a dry sow’s ration
should be grazing. Pasture helps to keep
up the mineral content of pig feed, and
paddock feeding gives the animals exer-
cise and keeps them clean.
With the pig, cleanliness and rotational
grazing, with frequent changes of pad-
dock, are about half the battle. The old-
fashioned sty with its floor half-covered
with swill has done more to perpetuate
the delusion that the pig is a delicate
animal than any other influence. And,
even where sties are clean, hand-feeding
tends to produce a shortage of minerals
unless the; ration is very carefully
managed? . •
Sandcracks.
“Agamemnon”: Although sandcracks
yield readily to treatment, they are often
the beginning of serious lameness in
horses. The fault may be hereditary, but
excessive rasping of the horn when
shoeing and dry, brittle hooves are often
to blame.
When the crack is deep it pinches the
sensitive structures of the hoof. In hind
feet the lameness may resemble string-
halt, but the weight is carried on the
heels. These sometimes become infected
and pus escapes at the coronet.
The crack must be freed from the pres-
sure of the rest of the wall by burning a
groove across it just beneath the coronet.
It can then be held by horseshoe nails
driven crosswise through the horn and
clenched. Where there are lameness and
pus the foot should be stood in a bucket
of warm disinfectant for half an hour
twice a day and the edges of the crack
thinned to allow the pus to drain. An
antiseptic pad and bandages are helpful
between foments.
Balling.
“Centaur”: “Agamemnon” (B.
15/9/’37) is more right than wrong in
his correction of “Horsey,” but he misses


4008.
C 3
YOU’RE SURE TO LIKE THE STYLE
It’s simple, yet extremely smart and up to date.
This model is made in high-grade Black and Brown Box Calf, with a soft
leather lining in the backs and a linen lining in the fronts.
Stocked in full and half sizes, and in medium and wide fittings.
Price, Black or Brown, 42/-.
“If it’s an Abbey Shoe it’s a good Shoe.”
ABBEY SHOES
316 George Street, 224 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
Telegraphic Address: “ABBEY BOOTS, SYDNEY.”
BEEBE
ALL STEEL
Portable
Winches
With
Holding
Yokes.
k
For use where Power is not Practical or
Available. Especially suitable tor Log Haul-
ing, Timber Getting and Mill Work.
2-ton capacity, weight .. GOIb.
5-ton capacity, weight .. 1101 b.
Illustrated folder with full particulars
obtainable from:—
Nelson & Robertson Pty. Ltd.
12 Spring- Street, Sydney.
If any illustration in “The Bulle-
tin” takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
:
m
m
:
is
mm u
plus ECONOMY lor Every Truck Job
The Choice of 2 V-8 Engines
enables you to use the correct power for your
particular job. There is a V-8 model for
every load from |-ton to 5-tons. Thousands
of Australian owners are daily proving the
outstanding advantages of V-8 truck power.
Efficiency and dependability are greater—
ton-mile cost is lower. Ford V-8 Truck
features include: Full Torque Tube Drive
and Radius Rods. Full Floating Rear Axle
with Straddle-Mounted Pinion and 4 Differ-
ential Gears. Braking Area of 470 f sq. ins.
41 Ball and Roller Bearings. Needle Roller
Bearings in Universal Joints. Centriforce
Truck Clutch. Heavy-Duty Transmission.
Oil-bath Air Cleaner. Dual Down-Draught
Carburettor. Ask your Ford dealer to arrange
an "on-the-job" test. Easy purchase terms.
FO R D V 8 Trucks
BUY FROM YOUR IQCfll FORD DEALER
FORD MOTOR COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD. _nNCORPOMIID_-L£
T^ie'^ulleiz^L
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
the bull with some of his shots. He
overestimates the effect of opium, nux
vomica and gentian.
Arecoline is dangerous. Its torturing
use in the treatment of painful intes-
tinal conditions should be prohibited.
The best treatment for nearly every
curable colic and impaction in horses
tc firoi i • ,
k T °' the - P ?“ by ,
intravenous or subcutaneous injection of
appropriate narcotics, and then to pass
the stornach tube and pump in two
gallons of warm water containing half a
pound of common salt.
If this can’t be done, the animal
usually may as well be left alone. If it
is done, nothing more will be needed as
a rule in any curable case excepting in
that rare form of twist which may be
resolved by manipulation, or where
puncture of the colon is necessary to get
rid of gas.
Peanut Prospects.
“Nothung”: The Queensland Peanut
Board estimates that 4500 to 5000 tons
of Virginian Bunch and 2000 to 2500
tons of Red Spanish will be marketable
next season—lo,ooo acres of Virginian
Bunch and 5000 acres of Red Spanish.
Last season there was a surplus of
Spanish, but this surplus should be ab-
sorbed by June 30, 1938, and there
should be no surplus next year.
The Australian grower has been well
protected. Last year only 50-odd tons
was imported for special purposes
only. There is a movement to license
all growers. Growers have voted unani-
mously for an additional 3030 tons stor-
age capacity, costing £50,000. No further
levy is needed.
Production increased by 2000 tons
from 1932 to 1936. By 1947, when the
extended life of the pool expires, it is
expected the production will have in-
creased to 9500 tons. The 1936 crop,
apart from outside sales, was 7000 tons.
And this is not the end. The inventor
of the Diesel engine considered peanut
oil an ideal Diesel fuel, and, though it is
too expensive for use by itself, it might
be a sound bet in combination with
alcohol.
Passion-fruit Chances.
“Nothung”: There is room on the
market for larger supplies of passion-
fruit, and orchardists can be assured of
a return of £6O an acie based on a price
of 4s. 6d. a half-bushel —prices are often
higher.
The fruit grows in warm, moist regions
on the coast. All the Queensland coastal
highlands grow p.-f. well. Well-drained
scrub soil and loam are suitable. Shelter
from wind is a big consideration.
Plant in spring or autumn: 15ft. by
Bft. apart, 363 vines to the acre. Trel-
lises must be strongly made and at least
6ft. high. First crops are taken 12 to
15 months after spring-planting ; 18 to
21 months after autumn-planting
Two crops are borne each year, with
occasional intermediate crops. Plenty of
attention must be given to pruning and
spraying.
Pineapples and Sulphur.
“Zedo”: The Queensland Agricultural
Department claims that sulphur is the
enemy of wilt in pineapples.
On most sandy soils, a dressing of up
to 3cwt. to the acre is enough, but loams
call for up to scwt., and red volcanic
soils, such as are encountered along the
coast north of Brisbane, need up to 7cwt.
Only an experimental plot can determine
the exact quantities.
Sulphur should be applied about a
month before planting. The soil should
be finely tilled and powdered sulphur
broadcast early in the morning or on a
day when there is little wind. It should
be worked down 4in. with a scarifier.
In emergency, sulphur can be put into
plantations in which the plants are not
more than a year old, but where there
are actually pines on the ground it
should be remembered that the benefit
comes through the soil and that whatever
is thrown on the plants themselves xs
sheer waste.
“Hortus”: Two old breeds are respon-
sible for the Red Poll —the Norfolk
dark-red horned beef breed and the
heavy milking Suffolk light-red polled.
Some of the earliest pure cattle in Aus-
tralia were Suffolks —brought out by the
Biaxlands. The present types have been
recognised as one breed since 1846.
Great progress was made towards uni-
formity in type and color by breeding
and selection after the Herd Book was
issued in 1874. The R.P.’s dual-purpose
qualities have proved a great asset, and
it is remarkably adaptable. Red Poll
milk-fat content is about 4 p.c., and well
suited for either cheese- or butter-making.
“W.D.Mc.”: Tell “Jackaburra” (B.
15/9/’37) that I have been drenching
with arsenic, soda and tobacco drench for
nearly 50 years for all kinds of worms,
and have never had a failure. I have
turned worm-infested weaners into first-
rate mutton inside of four months. The
man who gives bluestone to his sheep
should try it on himself first. “Jacka-
burra” can have had only a limited ex-
perience with arsenic, or he would know
what a potent drug it is and why
worms hate it. Nodules are an old
enemy under a new alias. I would
like to see “Jackaburra” chasing jum-
bucks with an enema in one hand and a
bucket of clyster in the other.
“Hortus”: The Raby Stud, Warren
(N.S.W.), of pure Peppin blood is making
a name for itself. These large-framed
animals are heavy cutters. This year
385 flock rams, 12 to 18 months old,
shorn on Feb. 26, with nine months’
growth, averaged 181 b. per head. The
ewes, too, are consistently heavy cutters
of long-stapled wool of medium to strong
combing quality. A team of 10 at the last
Sydney Sheep Show provided the reserve
grand champ, merino ram and champ,
medium-woolled ram, with four firsts, one
second and four thirds. At Trangie
(N.S.W.) it collected the ram grand
champ., female grand champ, and six
other champ, awards, also 10 firsts and
five seconds; at Warren 14 firsts and
six seconds, grand champ, grass-fed ram
and grand champ, grass-fed ewe and
four other championships.


TRIUMPH
after
FOR
TRIUMPH
SCIENTISTS
have discovered that
Herbal Plant Juices and
Human Blood are closely
alike, and when taken by
human beings Plant Juices
change easily into valuable
Homones, which enrich
the blood and furnish new
vigour to the nervous sys-
tem . . . the brain becomes
more active and clear and
the body glows with vitality
and vigour.
HUTUWAI
Herbal Remedy is Made
from the Juice of Plants.
Read these Remarkable
Reports:—
“I am now 77 years of age, and
want you to know that Hutuwai has
given me entire relief from pain and
has given me new life.”
(Mrs.) ELLEN AMOS, Croydon.
“I was told my daughter had
INCURABLE PSORIASIS ... A short
course of Hutuwai has given amazing
results . . . She has lost all her sores,
and her health is greatly improved.”
—(Mrs.) MARY TURNBULL,
Campsie.
“We are deeply grateful to Hutu-
wai. People who saw mother when
she came to me eighteen months ago
cannot get over how well she now
looks.”
—(Mrs.) W. E. BAKER,
Home Hill, N. Q’land.
“Now my hands (which were previ-
ously dead, twisted and entirely use-
less) are better, my limbs are flexible
again, and I have taken a new lease
of life again, thanks to Hutuwai.”
—ELIZABETH STEWART,
Forest Lodge, N.S.W.
“Since taking Hutuwai I am no
longer troubled with BLOOD PRES-
SURE and HEADACHES, and feel
like a new man.”
—J.K.
“Thanks to Hutuwai, I think, after
32 years’ suffering from STOMACH
TROUBLE, that life might be worth
living yet.”
-W. BAER, Sydney.
mmm
HUTUWAI
The Famous Herbal Remedy That Everybody’s Taking
“HUTUWAI WORKED ABSOLUTE WONDERS.”
Mia Mia Street, GIRRAWEEN, N.S.W.
Messrs. Hutuwai Distributing Co., 7th October, 1937.
Dear Sirs,
As I consider my case has been one of an extremely bad nature,
and only by taking your Hutuwai have I made such a marvellous recovery,
1 am setting out the history of my case in the hope that it will help others
to regain their health also.
In 1917 I was a Driver in the 3rd Divisional Train of the A.1.F.,
and was discharged from the Army with NEURASTHENIA. In June,
1936, I had to be carried home from work as a Ganger on the road.
When the doctor came he said I had ANGINA PECTORIS, and sent me
to Hospital, where I was told I had only three days to live. My wife
decided that if I was going to die she would rather have me at home. I
lay in bed for over nine months, during which time RHEUMATOID
ARTHRITIS set in; I was too weak to move, and had to be spoon-fed and
lifted in and out of bed. The pains were very severe, and my joints
would lock and would have to be forcibly straightened by my wife. One
day my wife heard over the wireless where Hutuwai was giving great
relief for any Rheumatic complaints; and my old Army complaint
NEURASTHENIA had developed again to such an extent that I would
often lay in a coma for days, that my wife decided to give me a course of
Hutuwai. At this time, too, I was just skin and bone. Hutuwai soon
started to give me relief; in fact, it worked absolute wonders. After the
fourth bottle ALL MY PAINS DISAPPEARED, and I was able to get in
and out of bed and walk about the house by myself, and I can now do
many little odd jobs about the place, such as mending the children’s
shoes; and I take my walk night and morning.
My nerves are now very steady again; in fact, I can thread a needle;
as a matter of fact, Hutuwai gave me such a new lease of life that I felt
like dancing for the sheer joy of living. During my illness my weight was
reduced to about six stone, and I am now about Bst. 71b.; and every day
lam improving in health, strength and vigor. I have had about 25
bottles, and intend continuing to take it, if only as a tonic.
I am very well known in this District, and friends who saw me at my
worst are very surprised at the amazing improvement Hutuwai has made
in veritably lifting me from what was thought was my deathbed to a
return to normal, healthy life.
I have recommended Hutuwai to many others, and shall continue to
do so, as my experience proves what a wonderful Remedy and Nerve
Tonic Hutuwai is; and will gladly interview any person wishing to see me
and to hear my story from my own lips.
Please use this letter in any way you wish, so that other sufferers
may know what Hutuwai has done for me and can do for them.
This letter was not given in return for any consideration, monetary
or otherwise, from Messrs. Hutuwai Distributing Co.; I have given this
testimonial with my own free will and suggestion and quite voluntarily to
help suffering humanity to gain the same measure of relief as Hutuwai
has given to me.
Yours, full of new life,
(Signed) FRANK CLARKE.
What HUTUWAI
has done for Digger
Clarke and thous-
ands of other Aus-
tralians it can also
do for YOU.
HUTUWAI
MUST
DO
YOU
GOOD
Further Proof of the Health-
giving Power of Hutuwai
“I feel like a new man . . . X-ray
photo has failed to reveal the slightest
sign of the DUODENAL ULCER.”
—L. F. HUNT, Darlinghurst.
“I was seriously affected in both
feet and almost in despair of ever
being right again. Hutuwai is truly a
DIVINE, HEAVEN-SENT REMEDY.”
—H. MATTHEWS, Master Mariner.
‘‘Expected her to die . . . now plays
usual games with other children.”
—MARY PETHYBRIDGE, Brooklyn.
“Thought I was going to die . . .
now I can walk for miles with plea-
sure.”
—(Mrs.) ROSE HYMAN, Narrabeen.
“Hutuwai has given me steady
NERVES and an excellent appetite;
it has given me hope and courage,
for I can NOW WALK WITHOUT
ASSISTANCE. Hutuwai Herbal
Remedy has a health-giving power
that is nothing short of amazing.”
—W. SLACK, Kew, Victoria.
“HUTUWAI IS WORTH ITS
WEIGHT IN GOLD ... I am recom-
mending Hutuwai to all my friends
and sufferers of Neuritis.”
—ALICE C. McMULLEN, Bankstown.
“1 am now relieved permanently of
all my Rheumatism, Neuritis and
Kidney Trouble sufferings.”
—(Mrs.) S. B. WOODWARD.
Proof Positive that HUTUWAI succeeds where all others
fail in the treatment of
ARTHRITIS, RHEUMATISM, NERVES,
BLOOD PRESSURE and KIDNEY TROUBLE.
sdf
Pronounce
HOO-
TOO-
y/Y.
THE BEST TONIC ON THE MARKET... BECAUSE IT IS HERBAL
Large Bottle
4/6
Also in 3/- Size.
Valuable DIET
CHART FREE.
Sold and recommended by CHEMISTS
and STORES Throughout Australia.
If UNOBTAINABLE LOCALLY, SEND DIRECT TO HUTUWAI
DISTRIBUTING CO., DEPT. 82, 210 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
—Telephone, 82145; or 485 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE,
Cl—Telephone MU4155. Post Free within N.S.W. and Victoria.
Elsewhere in Australia, Postage 1/- per bottle.
POST FREE IN N.S.W. AND VIC.
USE THIS COUPON
Hutuwai Distributing Co.,
Dept. 82, 210 George Street, Sydney ;
or 485 Bourke Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Please send me bottles of
Hutuwai. I enclose Postal Notes for
NAME
ADDRESS


Corns Sentenced to Death.
Corns have worried you—now worry them:
although “worry” is hardly the word, for
A’CORN SILK does not trifle with corns, but
ruthlessly kills them. How comfortable your
feet feel after A’CORN SILK has removed
all your soft or hard corns —a 6d. packet will
do this for you without pain or inconvenience.
Corns are killed while you sleep—a matter of
a few hours. Chemists sell A’CORN SILK at
6d. per packet. Packed by Felton, Grimwade
and Duerdins, Ltd., Melbourne.
V kort Story
c Writing
tyree Lance
[Journalism
Learn and Earn The most thorough and practical
in Spare Time ! Course of Training ever written!
Instruction and Constructive Criticism by Practical
Journalists and Short Story Writers . . . You learn
how to Write and how to sell your stories and articles.
Full details sent on application to
I.C.S. School oS Journalism
140 Elizabeth Street, Sydney
OurServiceDepartment
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Young man, Sydney, cripple, with clerical
and journalistic exp., would consider any pro-
position where services and small capital could
be utilised. —7464.
Certificated lift-driver, Sydney, wants em-
ployment.—7465.
Athletic youth (20) Vic., public school educa-
tion, seeks job as jackeroo on station. Previous
exp.—7472.
Wanted by rabbit-poisoner, Vic., station
properties to poison with thistle-root baits;
decoy own invention, stock guaranteed not to
eat baits; rabbits poisoned all the year round.
—7467.
Young girl , philatelist wishes to .exchange
stamps with residents outside Australia. —7460.
To buy November, 1932, issue of London
“Literary Guide.” —7463.
Words of poem “The Man with the Donkey,”
based on the exploits of Pte. Simpson on Gal-
lipoli.—7482.
Words of poem in which occurs the line
“The house by the side of the road, where all
men pass by.”—7455.
Words of war poem “Hell’s Gates of
Soissons.” —7437.
Does Anybody Know?
How to use a Chinese abacus?—7456.
* * * *
Meaning of “Cootan Beldendean,” said to
be native name for Inverell (N.S.W.)?—7459.
Information Sought.
(1) What are the Test-match averages of Tom
Richardson, H. Larwood and W. Lockwood
( England ) and A. Cotter, E. Jones and Jack
Gregory ( Australia ) ? (2) Which of them was
considered the fastest bowler? —7510.
Wickets. Runs. Average.
Richardson .. .. 88 2220 25.22
Larwood .. .. 64 1924 30.62
Lockwood .. .. 43 884 20.55
Cotter .. ..67 1916 28.59
Jones .. ..60 1757 29.28
Gregory .. .. 70 2364 33.77
(2) Richardson was regarded as the fastest,
with Jones very little inferior in pace.
* * * *
(1) When N.S.W. XI scored 918 runs v. South
Australia in 1901, who were the century-makers
on the side? (2) What were the figures of the
S. Aus. bowlers? (3) The fall of wickets?—
7491.
(1) Gregory (168), Noble (153), Poidevin
(140), 1 redale (118), Duff (119). (2) Travers,
4 for 197; Matthews, 2 for 162; Jarvis, 2 for
225; Hack, 1 for 44; Bailey, 1 for 23 ; Giffen,
0 for 119; Reedman 0 for 70; Walkeley, 0 for
43; Clem Hill, 0 for 18. (3) One for 148,
2 for 238, 3 for 305, 4 for 413, 5 for 627, 6 for
679, 7 for 784, 8 for 900, 9 for 911, 10 for 918.
* * * *
When was the Test match played which
launched the term “the Ashes,” and the
result? What was the origin of “the Ashes,”
and who was responsible for it?— 7485.
“The Ashes” began with the ninth Test
match at Kennington Oval, London, on August
28 and 29, 1882, which Australia won by seven
runs. The scores were: Australia, 63 and 122;
England, 101 and 77. On the result of the
match the London “Sporting Times” published
this “In Memoriam” notice: “In affectionate
remembrance of English Cricket, which died at
The Oval on 29th August, 1882. Deeply
lamented by a large circle of sorrowing friends
and acquaintances. R.I.P. N.B.—The body
will be cremated and the ashes taken to Aus-
tralia.”
H* *i» 'fc ‘o
(1) Cost of a Vauxhall “14” sedan and
approximate mileage per gallon ? (2) Cost of
Austin “10” sedan and approximate mileage
per gallon ? (3) Cost of insurance ? (4) Is the
Vauxhall a British-built car? —7427.
(1) £349, plus sales tax; 25-30 m.p.g. (manu-
facturer’s figures). (2) £325, plus sales tax; 30-
38 m.p.g. (manufacturer’s figures). (3) A com-
prehensive third party unlimited policy runs
out at £13 16s. (£200), £14 14s. (£250), £15 14s.
(£300). (4) Yes; engine, chassis, brakes, wheels,
instruments, etc., are manufactured in England;
tyres, body, springs, batteries, etc., in Aus-
tralia.
$
What are the respective drawbar horse-
powers of the Imperial super-Diesel crude-oil
tractor manufactured by A. H. McDonald and
Co. at Richmond, Vic., on (1) standard steel
wheel equipment, (2) on pneumatic tyres ? —
7371.
(1) Rated at 18-36 h.p.—18 h.p. on the
drawbar and 36 h.p. on the belt. (2) These
would be proportionately increased, but the
increases would depend on variations in work-
ing conditions.
**■*■,*
Number of people kilted by earthquakes in
Maoriland since records have been kept? —7500.
During the period 1848-1935 the number of
deaths recorded as due directly or indirectly to
earthquakes was 284. Of these, 255 were due
to the Hawke’s Bay earthquake of February 3,
1931.
What sort of vessel is a “Chesapeake Bay
bug-eye” ? —7476.
A flat-bottomed centreboard schooner of
small size, decked over and with a cabin aft,
used in oyster-fishing in Chesapeake Bay, on
the eastern coast of U.S.A.
N= * * Ns
Dates and places of birth and present
addresses of following German authors: (1)
Erich Remarque, (2) Lion Feuchtwanger, (3)
Emil Ludwig, (4) Heinrich Mann? —74B3.
(1) Born Osnabriick, 1898; address, Porto-
Ronco, Switzerland. (2) Born Munich, 1884;
address, c/o Curtis Brown, Ltd., 6. Henrietta-
street, London. (3) Born 1881; birthplace not
stated; address, Ascona, Switzerland. (4)
Born Liibeck, 1871; address, 11 Rue du
Congres, Nice, France.
N< Ns Ns *
(1) Where was explorer Hubert Wilkins when
the war broke out, and did he serve with
the A.I.F. ? (2) Did he fly an aeroplane to
Australia shortly after the war? —7497.
(1) From 1913 to 1917 he was a member of
Stefansson’s Canadian Arctic expedition, and
did not hear of the outbreak of the war until
1917. He hurried back to Australia and
obtained a commission in the Flying Corps.
Being prevented from flying at the front by a
supposed defect in his eyesight, he was
appointed official photographer. He was always
to be found where there was fighting, and was
twice decorated, on the second occasion for
rallying American troops at the battle of the
Hindenburg line on September 29, 1918. (2)
After the war he attempted to fly from England
to Australia in a .Blackburn “Kangaroo” aero-
plane, but the machine was wrecked in Crete.
N= N= * *
What are the arms of the City of Hobart ?
—7468.
On a shield azure, bordered or, a sheaf of
wheat; arranged round this a hayrake, a pitch-
fork, a sickle and a scythe; for the crest, on
the wreath of the colors an old-fashioned
plough; for supporters, dexter a kangaroo and
sinister an emu, regardant; motto, “Sic Fortis
Hobartia Crevit” (“So grew Hobart in
strength”).
* * * *
(1) In what year did Handel compose the
“Messiah” ? (2) In what year was it first played
in London ? (3) When and how did the custom
of standing up during the singing of the
“Hallelujah” chorus from that oratorio origi-
nate ? —7399.
(1) It was begun on August 22, 1741, and
finished on September 12 of that year. (2)
On March 23, 1743. (3) It dates from its first
performance in London, when its effect was so
overwhelming that, at the phrase “For the Lord
God omnipotent reigneth,” King George 11.
rose to his feet, and remained standing until
the end of the chorus, his action being followed
by the whole audience. The custom still pre-
vails.
iJJ $ *
Brief account of the wreck of the Dunbar?
—7340.
Under the command of James Green the
Dunbar, 1980 tons, left England May 31, 1857,
with 63 passengers, a crew of 59 and full
general cargo for Sydney. She passed Botany
Bay in an E.S.E. gale with heavy squalls and
a rough easterly sea. An error in reckoning
when entering Sydney heads brought the ship
on to the rocks just north of the signal station,
midway between the lighthouse and the Gap.
The ship soon broke to pieces, and there was
only one survivor, seaman James Johnson, who
clung to a ledge on the cliffs for 36 hours.
A number of relics obtained from the vessel
in 1910 are preserved at Watson’s Bay.
N= N= N= N=
What thickness of mother-of-pearl is there
on the Australian pearlsliell ? Is it thick
enough for turning up collar studs, etc., or is
the Persian Gulf shell used for this? Where
could I get a small supply of either ? Also a
book on shell-turning? —74l9.
Thickness varies greatly; it is thinnest near
the edge and increases in thickness towards the
hinge, where it may be half an inch. The
Australian pearlshell is the largest in the
world, and is used for the manufacture of knife
handles, cigarette holders, buckles, buttons,
etc. It should also be suitable for the manu-
facture of collar studs. Supplies can probably
be obtained from the Pearl-button Manufac-
turing Cos., of Foster-street, Sydney, and whole-
sale quantities from Burns, Philp and Cos. 7
Bridge-street, Sydney. Know of no book solely
devoted to shell-turning, but the operations
are described in Tressler’s Marine Products of
Commerce and Wonders of the Great Barrier
Reef, by T. C. Roughiey.
% # % #
(1) What is the difference in color between
cyanide and ferrocyanide of potassium ? (2)
Uses of these drugs? (3) Relative poisonous-
ness? (4) Is the potash used as fertiliser poison-
ous to animals if they eat it? (5) Dots it cause
skin irritation ? —7426.
(1) Potassium cyanide occurs in the form of
yellowish-white cubical crystals or as whitish-
yellow, opaque, fused masses. Potassium ferro-
cyanide occurs as odorless, translucent and
soft tablets or prisms of a lemon-yellow color.
(2) Potassium cyanide is a solvent of iron, zinc,
copper and nickel. In the presence of oxygen
it dissolves silver and gold, though sodium
cyanide is exclusively used for this purpose.
The potassium salt is employed by entomolo-
gists to kill insects without damage to form
or color. It also removes the stains of silver
nitrate from the skin. Potassium ferrocyanide
is used as a reagent in certain chemical tests.
(3) Potassium cyanide is highly toxic and should
therefore be stored in well-closed containers.
The substance is occasionally used for medical
purposes, the dose being one-twelfth to one-
quarter of a grain. Potassium ferrocyanide,
physiologically, is without any poisonous
action. (4) and (5) Fertilisers containing potash
(so called) are non-poisonous and non-irritant
to animals and man.
* * * *
What were the trading hours of hotels in Vic-
toria prior to the war, and when were the
present trading hours introduced? —7506.
Prior to 1915, the trading hours of hotels
were from 6 a.m. to 11.30 p.m. On July 6,
1915, the trading hours were reduced to 9 a.m.
to 9.30 p.m. Fifteen months later a turther
reduction was made which provided that from
October 8, 1916, the closing hour of hotels
was to be 6 p.m. instead of 9.30 p.m. during
the period of the war. This provision was made
permanent on December 19, 1916.
* * * *
(1) What are the duties of chairman at a
wedding breakfast? (2) What are the usual
toasts, and in what order? —7411.
(1) To conduct the ceremony at the break-
fast table; introduce speakers whom he calls
upon to propose toasts, etc. (2) The health of
the bride and bridegroom should be proposed
by the most distinguished male guest present,
for which the bridegroom should return
thanks. The bridegroom should then propose
the health of the bridesmaids, for which the
best man should return thanks. The health of
the bride’s parents should be proposed by the
bridegroom’s father.
* * * *
When and by whom was the first lunatic
asylum in N. S. Wales established?— 7sl3.
In May, 1811, Governor Macquarie estab-
lished the first lunatic asylum at Castle Hill,
and a little later the old Government barn was
repaired and allotted for that purpose at that
station. Accommodation was provided for 30
patients, with a courtyard for exercise sur-
rounded by a strong stockade. A weatherboard
cottage was erected for the superintendent and
his family. The first resident superintendent was
George Suttor, who received special instruc-
tions from Governor Macquarie in September,
1814. This asylum was maintained until 1828,
when the lands occupied were required for the
clergy and school estates. The building used
by the bench of magistrates at Liverpool was
thereupon converted into an asylum, and the
patients, numbering 32 men and 12 women,
were transferred from Castle Hill.
* * * *
What are the principal offences under the
New Zealand Quackery Prevention Act ? —7502.
The statute enacts that every person com-
mits an offence who publishes or causes to be
published any statement which is intended by
the defendant or any other person to promote
the sale of any article as a medicine, prepara-
tion or appliance for the prevention,, allevia-
tion or cure of any human ailment or physical
defect, and which is false in any material par-
ticular relating to the ingredients, composition,
structure, nature or operation of that article,
or to the effects which have followed or may
follow the use thereof.
* * * *
A few biographical details concerning
Frederick McCubbin, the painter? —7494.
He was born at Melbourne on February 25,
1855, studied art at the Artisans’ School of
Design and the National Art School, where he,
with Tom Roberts and C. D. Richardson,
formed the first life-class. In 1884 he was
appointed drawing master at the National Art
School, and in 1891 temporarily directed it. In
1885 he and Tom Roberts established the first
of the famous artists’ camps at Box Hill, near
Melbourne, and he was thrice president of the
Victorian Artists’ Society. In 1912 he helped
to initiate the Australian Art Association. As
far back as 1897 he exhibited at the Old Salon
in Paris, and later at the Grafton Galleries in
London. He visited Europe for the first time
in 1907. He died at Melbourne in 1917.
* * *
Value of the following silver jubilee postage
stamps in used condition: Australian 25.;
Jamaican 1 and., I]\d.; Indian \a., 9 p., 1 a., 1 \a.;
British \d„ Id., 1 \d„ 2{d. 3—7244.
Australian 2s. is catalogued at 65., but can
be had in Sydney, for about 3s. Jamaican Id.
and are listed at 2d. and 6d. respectively.
British 2jd. is listed at 6d., and the re-
mainder at Id. each (Gibbon’s 1937 Catalogue).
Ns N= Ns Ns
To what countries did Australia export eggs
last year? Quantities and values? —7475.
Figures are for 1935-36. Eggs in shell:
United Kingdom, 17,286,887 dozen valued at
£905,395 ; New Guinea, 47,115 doz. at £3325;
other British Pacific Islands, 17,549 doz. at
£1191; other British countries, 2601 doz. at
£234; Netherlands East Indies, 1215 doz. at
£9B; Foreign Pacific Islands, 9765 doz. at
£649. Eggs not in shell: United Kingdom,
290,3641 b. valued at £7110; other British
Countries, 1681 b. valued at £5; foreign countries,
801 b. valued at £3.
sfc *
Imports of Egyptian origin from 1931-32 to
1935-36 in detail? —7462.
Imports of Egyptian origin are not recorded
in detail. In 1931-32 they amounted to £15,751
(gums and resins, £5935; asphalt, bitumen and
natural pitch, £4029; paper manufactures,
£4103); in 1932-33 to £25,186 (seeds, kapok
and sesame, £2375; asphalt, etc., £11,902;
cigarette tubes and papers, £4118; gums and
resins, £2004); in 1933-34 to £IB,BOB (asphalt,
etc., £11,346; cigarette tubes and papers,
£4699); in 1934-35 to £13,967 (cotton, raw,
£1438; gums and resins, £1926; cigarette tubes
and papers, £8962); and in 1935-36 to £9288
(cigarette tubes and papers, £5035; vegetable
substances and fibres, £1968).
Ns * * *
(1) Number of marketing boards in Queens-
land? (2) List of products controlled? (3)
Q’land State debt per head? —7247.
(1) Fifteen. (2) Maize, fruit, canary seed,
pigs, arrowroot, barley, broom millet, butter,
cheese, cotton, eggs, honey, peanuts, plywood,
veneer and wheat. (3) Approximately £125 per
head.
Brief Answers.
R. 8.: (1) Particulars regarding entry to the
R.A.N. may be obtained from the District
Naval Officer, Edward-street, Brisbane. (2)
Vacancies occur from time to time in the per-
manent military forces for qualified general
cooks. Particulars may be obtained from
Headquarters, Ist District Base, Victoria Bar-
racks, Brisbane. (3) Vacancies do not exist
in the R.A.A.F. at any time for bakers, con-
fectioners or pastrycooks... .G.H.S.: Section
45 of the Commonwealth Electoral Act states:
“(a) Claims for enrolment which are received
by the Registrar after six o’clock in the after-
noon of the day of the issue of the writ for an
election shall not be registered until after the
close of the polling at the election.” Thus at
6 p.m. on September 24 the rolls closed for
the purpose of the general election to be held
on October 23. As you will not attain 21
until October 3 you will not be able to secure
enrolment on the Commonwealth roll until
after polling day....A.P.: Examinations for
mine managers are conducted each year by a
board of examiners connected with the Mines
Department, Sydney. Under-Secretary of the
Mines Department will furnish you with neces-
sary form and information desired on applica-
tion... .C.H.R.: The motion would need to
be rescinded at the next meeting and anew
motion passed embodying the changes....
M.M.W.: (1) Napier and Gardiner, 79 Pitt-
street, Sydney. (2) No reading fee charged, but
criticisms are obtainable if required at standard
rates. (3) No Australian publisher at present
publishing on that basis... .J.M.D.: Question
is one for a patent attorney to decide. Con-
sult one advertising on the “Wild Cat” page
of The Bulletin. .. .M.E.V.: Most of the
well-known correspondence schools advertise
courses on the subject. They are helpful....
PJ.K.: Submit the idea to your State Educa-
tion Dept, before taking other steps. A local
publisher would not be inclined to handle such
a book unless assured of sales... .5.8.5.: Billop
(W.A.), “a large sheet of water”; Cabarita
(N.S.W.), “by the water”; Carinya (N.S.W.),
“a peaceful home”; Coolangatta (Q.), “a
splendid view”; Coolamatong (N.S.W.), “water
near a hill”; Dungog (N.S.W.), “clear hills”;
Iluka (N.S.W.), “near the sea”... .H.M.: More-
land Metal Cos., 3 Market-street, Sydney
G.H.: (1) Men sent from Australia to the
Boer War between October, 1899, and the end
of the war in June, 1902, numbered 16,632.
(2) Population of Australia at December 31,
1900, was 3,765,339... .A.W.H.: Write
Fisheries Branch, Chief Secretary’s Dept., Mac-
quarie-street, Sydney... .L.R.: Darling’s scores
in his first Test v. England on the Sydney
Cricket Ground in December, 1894, were 0
(bowled Richardson) and 53 (caught Brock-
well, bowled Peel) S.H.: Marconi School of
Wireless, 47 York-street, Sydney... .1.H.: Write
Frank Hambridge, 22 Bridge-street, Sydney
G. 8.: The motto “Orta recens quam pura
nites” is that of the N. S. Wales Government,
and translated reads: “Newly arisen, how
bright thou shinest”.... J.L.S.: (1) Cannot
recommend any particular make. (2) For annual
mileages of 8000-10,000 allow about Id. per
mile for every in weight of car. This
covers insurance and registration. (3) Regis-
tration, British cars, 2s. 3d. per half-cwt., plus
£1; foreign cars, 2s. 9d. per half-cwt., plus £l.
Insurance, £7 165., plus 2s. stamp duty. Further
particulars obtainable from N.R.M.A. Insurance,
Ltd., 3 Spring-street, Sydney. (4) 10s. p.a
K.P.C.: Jas. Cumming and Sons, Parramatta-
road, Auburn; Proud Bros., 45 Beaconsfield-
street, Alexandria; Edward le Bas and Cos.,
204 Sussex-street, City; Thos. McPherson and
Cos., 493 Kent-street, City—all Sydney
J.R.M.: (1) The capital would be sufficient;
from £25 to £3O per week would cover the
wage bill. (2) Get in touch with Edwards,
Dunlop and Cos., Alex. Cowan and Sons and
Gordon and Gotch—all of Sydney G. 8.:
Since the Romans conquered Egypt during the
reign of Cleopatra the country has always been
a dependency until the accession of present
king. Pharaoh is the Anglicised Hebrew form
of the ordinary title of Egyptian kings....
G.F.D.: Write Under-Secretary, Dept, of Agri-
culture, Sydney... .W.G.L.: Couldn’t prescribe
without examination. Consult a vet D.N.:
(1) Consult any of the patent attorneys adver-
tising on the “Wild Cat” page of The Bulletin.
(2) Pencil signatures have little interest to
autograph collectors... .D.D.: (1) By lodg-
ing a copy with the Copyright Office,
Commonwealth Bank Chambers, Martin-
place, Sydney, and paying a registration
fee of ss. (2) Will give protection throughout
the British Empire, but not in U.S.A. (3)
An American literary agent may be able to
help you... .R.S.P.: Any person who brews
beer containing 2 p.c. or more of proof spirit
without a license can be prosecuted. Subject
to this provision it may be brewed for home
consumption W.A.: (1) and (2) History in-
dicates the necessity for an overhaul, including
an examination of the digestive system and of
the nose, throat and sinuses. Seems unlikely
that any operation is urgently required. (3)
and (4) Do not know of any such drastic treat-
ment; and no general practitioner would be
likely to undertake it. You are probably think-
ing of the treatment of ringworm of the scalp
by means of thallium acetate; this drug causes
loosening of the hair of the scalp, when it is
easily removed. The hair soon grows again.
W.B.P.: Surgical removal is probably the
best remedy in most cases, but carbon dioxide
snow is almost as good, and a remedy to
which patients are very much more willing to
submit. Applications of the snow may leave
whitish scars behind them, and there is some
inflammatory reaction, but the results amply
repay these inconveniences. The services of
a skin specialist are necessary A.H.W.: De-
scription of symptoms suggests a disorder of
the heart muscle or of the nerve supply of the
organ. If worried, arrange for periodic medical
examination and also for an electro-cardiogram
of the heart J.W.: (1) Trouble is probably
that form of skin inflammation known as
seborrhcea, commonly seen in the scalp and on
the face, chest, upper arms and between the
shoulder-blades. In most cases, the scalp needs
attention. Use a lotion containing salicylic acid
(five parts), castor oil (six parts), spirits of rose-
mary (50 parts), spirits of wine (150 parts).
Apply with a bottle having a perforated cork.
On the body, the preparation known as Lassar’s
paste is valuable, with the addition of 1 p.c.
each of sulphur and salicylic acid to the ounce.
Any digestive trouble present needs attention.
(2) Do not recommend the proprietary remedy
name d J.M.: These symptoms commonly
accompany various pelvic disorders of women,
and in either sex may be due to arthritic troubles
in the lower spine and the bones of the pelvic
girdle. Sciatica is also a common cause. Impos-
sible to be more explicit without further details.
....(Many others mailed.)


I pM
mmmms
w-
,
&
COUNTRY LIFE! Where the days are long and strenuous,
and where the question of foot comfort is so necessary if
the day is to be finished without aching feet and weary body.
That is why
The "Zipp” Riding Boot
by Pike Brothers (Reg. Design No. 9292) is so popular
with horsemen. It is extremely comfortable, and its elastic
sides are so convenient, making the putting on or taking off
of the boot such an easy and simple matter. The service
of the boot is unquestioned. It is well made from
strong tan calf leather, with welted soles, and is obtainable
with “Zipp” fastener at side or front. The
“Zipp” Riding Boot is available in full or half
sizes at
33/9
PIKE BROTHERS
LIMITED
In Queen Street -
BRISBANE
IT WAS AGONY
TO STOOP
Backache Made Him Feel
An Old Man at 31.
This man of 31 was prematurely aged by
kidney trouble, when he should have been
enjoying the best years of his life. Here he
tells how Kruschen gave him back his health,
after months of pain:
“I was in hospital for ten weeks, owing to
kidney trouble. When I was discharged I felt
like an old man, although I am only 31.
If I stooped to do anything it was agony to
straighten up again. Several people advised me
to try Kruschen Salts. I tried them and found
they gave 'me relief from pain and I felt better
in every way. I cycle 28 miles a day to and
from work, and shall keep up the daily dose
of Kruschen because I can now do the journey
to and from work and a night’s work, and
not feel any the worse for it.” —S.V.C.
Unless the kidneys function properly, certain
acid wastes, instead of being expelled, are
allowed to pollute the blood-stream and produce
troublesome symptoms: backache, rheumatism
and excessive fatigue. Kruschen Salts is one
of the finest diuretics or kidney aperients avail-
able for assisting the kidneys to excrete acid
impurities.
NEW
| THE
' "MEEKA"
POLEY
SADDLE,
£ll/14/-
(BARE),
£l2/17/6
(MOUNTED).
Is full " Somer-
set” type and
is made of best
quality Kip. The
flaps and skirt are in
one piece. The tree
is strongly made
and a solid gullet plate.
WALTHER & STEVENSON
PTY., LTD.,
395 George Street, Sydney.
'
: • *
tflt
0
.
.
fl
V" *
■\ ■' \
%
4
4VP
m
■'
:
m *
i
■N S J
•;.•■-.• 1
■-"aHHS -j
{WiMPr?
1 ■ i■; 'ih
Md'dM
BSHIH
m
B 1
lIU
if
£z&%
Brilliant gem of the South-
ern Seas made even more
scintillating by glorious
pageantry, merry carnival,
gala sporting events, in cele-
bration of a Nation’s 150th
Birthday
PAGEANTRY, CARNIVAL, SPORI. Whatever your tastes and inclinations
may be, you will find in the round of attractions something to interest, to amuse,
to enthral you—the brilliant spectacle of pageantry on land and sea—the gaiety
of carnival—the excitement of closely contested sport —the quiet reflective joy
of historical, industrial and artistic exhibitions.
Hi
> :
«■■■..». lim.
■
WKBflWflSBi
■ *-*
' • *
'****»
* “ * - «* .
5?
3K
■ m
;■■/..£
JWrite for full details to the
Organising Secretary,
(Commonwealth Bank Bldg.,
Martin Place, Sydney.
The attractions Include—Venetian
Carnival on Sydney Harbour,
Surf Carnivals, March to Nation-
hood Pageant, Royal Show, Em-
pire Games, World’s Largest Rifle
Shoot, International Lawn Ten-
nis, Gala Race Meetings, Big
Game Fishing, Big Cricket,
Bowls Carnival, City of Sydney
Eisteddfod, and the most mag-
nificent scheme of municipal
decorations and illuminations
ever planned.
AUSTRALIA'S 150 th
ANNIVERSARY CELEBRATIONS
SYDNEY - JANUARY 26 - APRIL 25 - 193 8
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should
be addressed to the Editor, not to members of the staff personally.
M.H.: The resemblance you profess to detect
between the pipes of Pan, the bugle-call of
Robin Hood and the eldritch laughter of the
kookaburra has never occurred to us J.H.:
A good enough theme, but it’s a very laborious
sonnet D.K.N.: An insufficiency of pep.
S.H.: Patriotic odes to Australia, begin-
ning
O land of great promise in fair southern seas,
Where the ensign of freedom floats high on the
breeze,
fail to register a hit with us C.M.: Not
crisp enough for a parody of “The White Man’s
Burden”... .M.H.S.: Too long and very dreary.
J.W.: A letter so modest and friendly
almost disarms criticism. But your verse lacks
swing and you use too many technical words.
E.J.B.: No, you don’t trespass, but these
rough Arabic words (if they are Arabic) don’t
go into lilting numbers A.S.: There’s melody
in it, but it’s out of our line... .E.R.M.:
Below the mark... .H.P.S.: What a riot of
polysyllables!.... K.E.C.: No D.R.G.: For
the xth time we can’t acknowledge paragraphs.
If they don’t appear, they don’t 8.L.L.:
You don’t make the grade F.R.T.: “Lack
of Breath” left us speechless D.M.: Same
thing appeared in Aboriginalities weeks ag0....
K.H.M.: “Skates” cut no ice L.H.:
Obvious... .A.J.S.: Don’t want the murderer
who tattooed green snakes on his victims’
arms... .G.H.M.: Anyway, “Why Did Flapni-
gan Die?”... .C.J.R.: You still don’t strike
our needs J.D.: Nor 'do y0u.... G.G.L.:
' Four-leafed Clover” brought you no luck.
.. . .E.M.: If a yarn has been published else-
where we don’t want it H.T.: “Spring Fan-
tasy” was more like an autumn tragedy....
J.C.S.: Should make a par W.K.: “I
The Bulletin welcomes sugges-
tions for humorous drawings. Only
original jokes will be considered.
A minimum payment of 7s. 6d. each
on acceptance.
don’t like the yarns you publish, so I am
sending you these.” Well, we don’t like the
yarns you write M.S.L.: Right off our
beat... .P.L.D.: Why not try fairy stories? ....
E.W.A.: It might find a home elsewhere....
D.J.H.: Time you took the hint 0.J.: Try
a daily... .J.N.P.: No time for the business
magnate who murdered several secretaries with
a paperweight M.N.L.: Might get through
as a story in French with a few English quota-
tions... ,J.Y.: “He was born one misty night”
—and seems to have moved in a fog ever
after T.R.L.: An old friend 1.M.: “I
write pages and pages and never read them.”
Then why inflict the agony on us? N.G.G.:
If you want your yarns read, type them or write
m ink... .H.K.S.: “I don’t want payment for
this yarn.” Just as well N.8.Y.: “The
Worm That Turned” is returning P.T.: Could
find no connection between the fourth and fifth
pages W.L.T.: “I suppose you get many
yarns worse than this.” Not many S.T.D.:
“Hurricane” blew itself out after a couple of
pages... .G.8.D.: Dunno where you got your
idea of a newspaper office.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
L.J.: Gags have seen a better day....
N.M.W.: It might be a picture of a
clump of white-ants’ nests S.F.: The gent.
with the top-hat bears some resemblance to
Eden; the rest are unrecognisable F.W.:
It took us a split second to reject those light-
ning sketches... .V. 8.: Promising student’s
work W.C.: You seem to have no control
over your pen.‘.. .A.W.: They were headed for
the w.p.b. from the first stroke... .P.W.S.:
No cause for hilarity among that batch
G. 8.: You’re weak on perspective, composition
and humor C.D.: Not in the market for
dragons this week, thanks W.R.J.: We pre-
sume that the dim object next to the beer-
barrel is the barmaid H.P.: That jest got
a grin 100 years ago L. 8.5.: Hope for
you if you study hard for the next three years.
J.T.: Dq all the menfolk bulge that way
in your part of the world? H.W.: No
grazing for your lopsided buckjumper
M.F.: Fairy-book illustrations and tame gags.
.... T.T.: Nice free-and-easy style; gags lack
originality F.G.: If it is a first venture you
show a lot of promise A.A.V.: A harsh
and scratchy effort J.S.D.: You may call
and remove the lady with the rolling-pin
P.E.: So dead that we suspect it arrived in a
hearse... .A.K.: Rejected with haste large and
horrible drawing of two crabs in combat....
L.P.: With a decent class of drawing-paper
and Indian ink you might get better results.
. ...W.W.: As soon as we can dig up a firing
squad we’ll settle that old drunk gag for all
time... .E. 8.: Crosscut saw is passable....
R.H.C.: Stiff poses, splintery linework and gags
that didn’t raise a smile W.N.8.: Not over-
anxious to see the remainder J.0’8.: Wash
drawing so murky that the figures are hardly
distinguishable from the landscape T.A.:
Still trying to puzzle out jest about the tattooed
bather in shorts H.G.D.: Send carol-singers-
in-snowstorm picture to an English magazine.
W.G.: “Is it hopeless?” Yes.


WRESTLING IN THE LONG AGO
Australia had a wrestling boom in the ’eighties, and the methods of the wrestlers were very like those of the present b ™ therbooci : were Irv^Hop”
of a match between “Professor” Miller and Mons. Victor, noted characters of the period, at Sydney on January 19, 1884; tne arawings s
Miller is still alive in the U.S.A. _ -
It was a dull, sluggish afternoon —the
kind of day that makes Her, at the
moment of the arrival of the Coogee
tram (for which you have been waiting
an hour), look doubtfully up at the
heavens and finger her hat, and that makes
you take her to Quong Tart’s teashop.
There Quong (it is impossible to call him,
with any gravity, “Mr. Tart”) will chat
pleasantly with you about either the mili-
tary condition of China or the intricacies
of the noble game of “heading ’em.”
And tea on a Saturday afternoon, when
She is with you, leads to other things—
peppermint drops,
gloves, lemon
squash and, per-
chance, jewellery.
It was not
thought among the
talent that Mililer
and Victor would,
at their struggle,
have “more than a
million in.” Strange
to say, however,
there was a good
roll-up, the gallery
being crowded and
the dress - circle
fair ; but the mon-
strous price of the
stalls proved a good
deal too stiff for
the Fancy.
It was a pound
to go on the stage,
and the attendance
there was, so far
as numbers went,
eminently satisfac-
tor y. Lawrence
Foley, Esq., was
present, and Signor
Verdi and Pro-
fessor D’Harcourt
and Dave Ingram,
Esquire.
We were all
seated in a semi-
circle, like a nigger-
minstrel troupe
that had lost its
wardrobe and run
out of burnt cork.
It was a pretty con-
vivial ga t h ering,
and as the com-
pany, during the
wrestle, went out
five separate times
to get a drink,
towards the close
of the entertain-
ment many of the
stage spectators
bordered closely on
the hilarious.
There was no
band, so the pro-
ceed i n g s were
initiated by a few
words from the
referee; an ar-
rangement which,
when it is con-
sidered that Larry
Foley was among
the audience, is
strangely unac-
countable. George
Merriman, M.P.,
was up in the dress-
circle, and it was
rumored that he
had been requested
to set the ball roll-
ing, but had cour-
teously declined.
It seems that
some years ago
George, who hadj
just come from Court, was asked
to look after a well-known pugilist in
a match at Larry’s, and also to make
a little speech. Being a bit confused, he
blurted out the following: “Gentlemen,
I appear for the defendant in this case,
and I shall put it in evidence before you
that the word of the girl is not to be
believed.” He then buried his flushed
features in a foaming goblet.
M. Victor is a lithe Frenchman, of
medium height, with no physique to
speak of; and the fact of his having the
rapid utterance of his race causes him
to be the very antithesis of Miller, who
possesses, if not the humor, at least the
concentration of the oyster. Yet in spite
of M. Victor’s slim appearance, he comes
to us with a bright little record. He is
“Champion Middleweight Graco-Roman
Wrestler of Australia, and Holder of the
Champion Gold Medal of France. ’
FORERUNNERS OF LURICH AND SAVOLDI.
Despite this announcement, as we
gazed at Miller the thing uppermost in
our minds was not how often Miller
would throw his opponent, but in what
direction he would throw him ; over how
many rows of stalls M. Victor would go ,
in what part of the dress-circle he would
most frequently alight, and how many
people would be killed in the gallery
by his flying corse.
At something after three o’clock, Miller
stepped out on to the carpet —which had
a layer of sawdust beneath it —looking a
picture. He was naked to the waist and
wore white-and-red tights, while the
Frenchman mounted white-and-blue.
When Victor showed up, a murmur of
mingled astonishment and sympathy was
heard in the theatre. He stripped very
badly and was plainly out of condition.
Long before the first fall he was a river
of perspiration, and he kept uttering now
and again a croak like that made by a
,
very hoarse raven.
Miller having undertaken to throw
Victor flat on his back five times in an
hour all the latter’s troubles consisted in
keeping on the defensive and lying on
his stomach as much as possible. The
thing thus resolved itself into the follow-
ing pastime: Directly the men would
close, down would go Victor on the
carpet, with Miller on the top of him,
upon which the champion would twist
him, bend him, lift him, clutch him by
the throat, roll him —in fact, do every-
thing to him but eat him.
This entertainment lasted usually from
eight to eleven minutes, when, on a fall
being declared, the panting pair would
retire to their rooms. On these occa-
sions Victor presented a pitiable spectacle.
His face being nearly all the time buried
in the carpet, his
mouth, when he
got up, was
usually so full
of sawdust, and
grit, and fluff,
and carpet dye
that when he
spoke his voice
sounded like a
distant foghorn.
Some of the
bouts were very
severe, and
Victor must have
felt considerably
incommoded at
those times when
Miller’s knee was
in the small of
his back, and the
giant’s great
fingers were
squ e e zing his
neck. This, it
seems, is allowed,
and was probably
invented by the
Graeco - Romans.
Sounding smacks
upon the bare
back and sides
are also per-
mitted ; in fact,
the only things
that seemed to
be outside the
rules are ear-
chewing and the
use of a blud-
geon.
It must be said
of Victor that
what he lacked
in strength he
made up in ac-
tivity, falling,
when thrown,
like a cat on all
fours, and fre-
quently getting
away from his
adversary. But it
was dreary work,
and during the
contest wits
whiled away the
time by offering
and taking jocose
wagers for enor-
mous sums that
the Frenchman
would “do him.”
Of course, the
Frenchman didn’t
“do him,” and
Miller accom-
plished the fifth
fall within seven
minutes of the
hour, a conclu-
sion that was
satisfactory to all.
By the time we
left, things be-
hind were being
got in readiness
for the panto-
mime, and all the
fairies were at
home greasing
their eyebrows and crimping their bangs.
Actresses are as great believers in grease
Actresses are a g „
as wrestlers appear to be in Graeco. _
Down the street we met Victor
was doing the most sensible thing
could do in the circumstances: taking
drink and smoking a cigar.


XMAS FIJI EXCURSION
One Week in Fiji.
R.M.S. "Niagara”
leaves Sydney 23rd Dec.,
arrives Suva 31 st Dec.
R.M.M.V. "Aorangi”
leaves Suva 7th Jan.,
arrives Sydney 15th Jan.
First Class Return Excursion Fare £33 (from Sydney)
EXCURSIONS TO HONOLULU
a delightful weeks’ trip: 19 days in Hawaii, or longer
if desired, by “NIAGARA” and “AORANGI,”
sailing every four weeks from Sydney.
Return Fares:—
Per “NIAGARA” both ways . . . .
Per “AORANGI” „ „
Per “NIAGARA” one way and )
“AORANGI” one way j
Apply:—
First Class.
£79/10/-
£Bl/10/-
£BO/10/-
UNION STEAM SHIP CO.,
(inc. in N.Z.)
Cabin Class.
£57/10/-
£57/10/-
£57/10/-
LTD.
247 George Street,
Sydney
or
59 William Street,
Melbourne
STOMACH DISTRESS and
ACIDITY ENDED-THIS NEW WAY
m
v- / '
SJ
m
Self-Poisoning (Autoxima)
ITS CAUSE AND EFFECTS
Civilized life guards against many dangers and
diseases. But it exposes us to hidden ones such
as self-poisoning. Devitalized modern foods give
insufficient exercise to the walls of the intestines.
They lose their power of normal movement and
are unable to get rid of the poisonous acid-form-
ing waste —which settles in their folds. Essential
Alkalizing minerals which maintain health are not
extracted from your food by the lifeless walls.
Your vigour and vitality are undermined. Mean-
while, the food waste lies stagnant and ferment-
ing in the colon, giving rise to gases which are
forced back into the stomach, thus souring the
food and causing sickness, heartburn, pain in the
chest, headaches, bad breath. Impurities are
created and enter the blood stream to attack and
weaken other vital parts or functions of your body.
"Stomach distress entirely due to self-
poisoning/ 7 says eminent Berlin
Physician Dr. C. Oppenheimer
Stomach distress does not primarily result from indi-
gestion, for this, too, is only a condition arising from
the real cause. As Dr. Oppenheimer, the celebrated
Berlin physician, points out, this complaint is entirely
due to self-poisoning (autoxima). That is why medi-
cines which act only on the stomach give no per-
manent relief. The clogged colon, where the primary
cause of autoxima begins, must first be cleared of fer-
menting acid debris before real relief from stomach
distress, indigestion, acidity, gastritis, belching, bloat-
edness, gas pains, and ulcers can be effected. So clean
your colon of this acid-developing waste.
HOW TO HAVE A HEALTHY STOMACH
Clogged Colon
The left illustration shows your colon clogged by
fermenting food waste. Your partial bowel move-
ments may be regular, but modern, devitalized food
waste has clogged your colon and autoxima is poison-
ing your system. You feel depressed, bloated. You are
troubled with constipation, burning pains in the
stomach, tenderness. You dread to eat yet you are
always hungry. Laxatives are useless—they only
act on the lower part of the bowels;
they do not clear away the gas-gener-
ating poisons from the colon walls. COLOSEPTIC,
however, cleans the entire colon of waste matter, as
shown in the right-hand illustration. It neutralizes all
acid conditions. It restores the body's alkaline reserve.
COLOSEPTIC also activates the three other elimina-
tive organs—the pores of the skin, the kidneys and
the respiratory system. Be free of stomach distress
for good, clear your colon with COLOSEPTIC now.
ds
f Jnclogged Colon
READ THlS — “Delighted with Results’ 9
Tasman St., Wellington.
My husband and l are taking Coloseptic and are more than de-
lighted with results. We really feel we have at last secured tine
article to ensure health, more especially in my husband’s case.
He has been suffering from Indigestion, Flatulency, etc., for many
years. He feels much better than he has done for years. I also
feel a very different person since taking Coloseptic. . . .
Mrs. A.H.
(The original of this letter may be seen at Head Office.)
AT ALL CHEMISTS—
INDIVIDUAL SIZE, 2/9; ECONOMY SIZE, 5/6.
FREE
LIBERAL SAMPLE OF COLOSEPTIC. Mail the coupon for a free trial
sample of COLOSEPTIC. You’ll receive it by return mail and, in addition,
an interesting book, telling you more about the vital and intimate subject of autoxima,
will be sent to you——FREE.
ds
FOR BETTER INTERNAL CLEANNE S S
CHECKS SELF-POISONING & AIDS NUTRITION
COMBATS ACIDITY - BUILDS HEALTH
SP
c<r^ v
-fP 6 c.o'*
.y<S> C *\°
&
c**'"
THE CHINA WAR-SCENE.
(BY “EL V.")
The horrors of the China war have
caught the imagination of the world, and
it is only natural, having regard to the
conditions under which the war is being
fought.
The province of Kiangsu, on the edge
of which Shanghai lies, is less than half
the size of Victoria —41,000 square miles.
Into that area 36,500,000 people are
packed. The most congested space, tak-
ing in as much country as would go
from Sydney’s coastal suburbs to Auburn
and from Sydney Harbor to Hurstville,
holds 3,500,000. Over the whole prov-
ince, inclusive of river and canal areas,
there are 900 souls on every square mile.
Most of these people have never known
what it is not to share a hovel or a
houseboat with some other family. They
literally depend on the actual day’s work
to get them the actual day’s food. As
a rule, they have no clothes but those in
which they stand, and only portable pos-
sessions.
Nine hundred to the square mile means
one person to every plot of land, water,
road, hill and dale 55 yards by 60 yards.
Even if the people were evenly spaced
over the whole province no high calibre
shell, no machine-gun burst or large
aerial bomb could be planted in the
centre of such a space without endanger-
ing a human life. Certainly no shot could
be fired without tearing up something
which has meant a living to at least one
family on land and without dispersing an
aggregation of families on water.
The approach of war along a hundred-
mile line north of Shanghai, rolling on
slowly, must set millions of refugees on
the roads, men, women and children who
are faced with the alternatives of dying
under fire or dying of hunger—and, in a
month or two, cold—in alien districts
which cannot feed or shelter them.
And as the war goes forward its mills
must grind slowly. Kiangsu and the
neighboring provinces are not ordered,
level districts like Northern France, fed
by strategic railways on both sides of the
line.
Kiangsu is a land of teeming canals
which intersect the countryside every few
hundred yards, of soggy irrigated fields.
Huge rivers create tremendous barriers
across which the transport of large bodies
of troops and heavy artillery is an epic
business calling for organisation un-
paralleled in the history of large-scale
war. Refugee-blocked roads and canals
present a terrible check to the impatient
invader. Only in the air and along some
of the broader highways is he free to
move, and even where there is a railway
or a river for transport congestion and
difficulty bar his way.
No matter how merciful an enemy may
be, how little he may desire to destroy
harmless civilians, that destruction is in-
evitable in China.
The Japanese, being no fools, must
know the troubles ahead of them, but
their problems are such that a foothold
in China is with them a measure of
desperation.
Their average population over the
whole Empire, including Formosa and
the mandated islands, is 375 to the square
mile—469 to the square mile in Japan
proper. Westernisation has brought their
living standards and their ideas of com-
fort to a stage a century ahead of those
of China. Their mountainous country
gives them little chance of agricultural
expansion within their own territory.
They have been forced to become an
industrial country. The cost of their
continued existence is added to by the
need to maintain a large army and navy,
since Russia lies just across the strait.
And in the last few years they have
met with grave misfortunes.
Much of their most populated country
was torn to pieces by the 1923 earth-
quake. The manner in which they faced
that disaster won the admiration of the
world. In the past decade they have
had to provide for an increase of popu-
lation which gives them nearly a million
new mouths to feed every year. They
have sought to do it by becoming a
manufacturing export nation. But an
export business was possible to them
only by buying foreign raw materials
and selling the finished products at cut
prices.
The world has revolted against this
competition. Prohibitions and impene-
trable tariffs have shut off their markets.
They have tried to reduce the expenses
of materials and transport by building
their own shipping. Here again they
have met with checks, and not merely in
the form of organised opposition.
Trying to secure an outlet in Man-
chukuo, they have found the place an
expensive failure. Expanding their
fisheries to southern waters, they have
created a disturbed feeling in Australia,
and alarm in the Dutch Indies, evi-
denced by an unparalleled defence
scheme.
On top of all this they have had to
reckon with the strengthening of Russia’s
Siberian forces, the deliberately anti-
Japanese propaganda of the U.S.S.R. and
the rise of Red armies and “Soviet re-
publics” in China. Communism they
regard as a deadly threat to their institu-
tions —the deadliest they have encoun-
tered since the days of Kublai Khan.
Then the recrudescence of naval build-
ing among great world Powers has
brought with it the need for drastic
modernisation of' Japanese defences.
Britain has established the Singapore
base. Virtually the whole of the United
States fleet is stationed permanently at
Hawaii and in adjacent harbors.
Japan has not the metal and fuel re-
sources to meet what she considers her
needs. Her attack on China is no mere
move for conquest. She wants a settled
China providing markets. She needs
free access to the coal and iron and
potential oil resources of North China.
The world is not likely to compel her
to renounce her objectives by boycotts.
Every restriction on her imports would
force her to fight more desperately for
a hold on the mainland. Nor can in-
vective do a bit of good. Many of
the legislators and philanthropists who
are now wasting good breath in denun-
ciation of this restless and resentful nation
would be doing considerably more for
China and Japan and for world peace
if they applied their intellects to the task
of devising a live-and-let-live policy, or
at least of helping to create the atmo-
sphere in which such a policy might be
achieved.


in the ‘Times,’ giving you the credit. You’re a
hero down there now.”
“Well, I couldn’t see that I could help by stay-
ing there any longer. The main points had all been
fixed up with Canberra, and the details could be
left to Government officials. Pettigrew’s new factory
meant immediate work for me up here.”
“How’s the game going?”
“Pretty well. Apart from Pettigrew’s work I’m
roping in a few clients. It’ll be hard work building
up a practice, but I’ve made a start . . . But how is
Terrigan taking the settlement? How do they like
being Federal territory?”
“I think it’ll turn out well. Everyone’s quite
enthusiastic—even Napper. He’s trying to pretend
that he had something of that nature in mind right
from the start. He’s more like his old self again—
his head’s back to more or less normal size.”
“I’m glad to hear that. He was a good chap
till he let his imagination run away with him. I
suppose I’m to blame for that as much as he. What
about Mutton?”
“He’s all right. I think he’s damn’ glad the
whole thing’s over, and he’s quite content to be
called postmaster again without the general. Haven’t
seen much of Peperell lately—he’s been sticking to
his farm. The future of the Shire Council is rather
hazy, but I suppose there’ll be something of the kind
in its place, and he’ll be president of that.”
“Vicar of Bray,” laughed Jerry.
“Yes. The rest of the town goes on much as
usual. The tourists have fallen off, but, of course,
it’s the middle of winter. I agree with what you
said months ago—that once the town got them it
would have ’em for good. They’ll be back again
all right when the fine weather comes.”
“Sure.”
“Of course, the Federal people haven’t officially
taken over yet—there are all sorts of formalities to
go through. We’ve had droves of valuers and ex-
perts down—even the naval bigwigs called to have
a look at the bay, and inspected it as well as they
could from the lounge of the Royal.”
“What did they think of it?”
“They told Bert Milligan it was a damn’ snug
little place, but he wasn’t sure whether they meant
the bay or the pub. Anyway, everyone’s happy down
there.”
“Including Buckenara?”
“Well, he’d never be happy, but I think he’s
satisfied. It looks as though there’ll be two trains
a day before long, so he ought to be.”
“What about Dansie?”
“Oh, I forgot Peter. He’s gone. Got a shift
up here somewhere. And promotion. Seems that
getting his name in the papers brought him under
the notice of someone high up who used to be
chummy with him years ago when they first joined the
force. He’d climbed up the ladder while Dansie was
standing still in Terrigan, and now he’s pulled Peter
up a couple of rungs after him.”
“Good,” said Jerry with genuine pleasure. “I’m
jolly glad to hear it.”
Bannister stepped to the window and stood drink-
ing in the view of the city. “I still can’t believe I’m
here.”
“Well, that doesn’t look much like Terrigan, does
it?” replied his son, pointing out across the roofs
towards Darlinghurst.
“No,” laughed Bannister. Then he continued:
“I must see Pettigrew to-night and thank him. Where’ll
I find him?”
“If you wait here a little longer he’ll find you.
He and Sally are due any moment.”
“Good.”
“I’m taking Sally out to dinner, so you can have
him all to yourself.”
“Dinner, eh? Slap-up affair?”
“Oh, no, just a something to eat and a show.”
“Nice girl, Sally.”
“You bet.”
“Pretty, too. How old Pettigrew ever came to
be her father beats me. He’s a white man through
and through, ,but he’s certainly no
beauty-parlor advertisement.”
Jerry laughed. “Anyway, she’s his
daughter as far as brains are concerned,
and she’s certainly got a will of her own.”
“So you’re finding that out, eh?”
Further discussion of the Pettigrews
was postponed, as at that moment the
doorbell rang and Jerry hastened to
answer it. His father gazed after him
with a pleased smile. Jerry opened the
door and in walked Hiram Pettigrew and
Sally.
Hiram greeted the banker heartily and depre-
cated his proffered thanks. Sally also greeted him
cordially. Jerry found drinks ans smokes for the
visitors, and for a while the four chatted on Terrigan
and kindred subjects. Then Jerry suggested that it
was time he and Miss Pettigrew were on their way.
Hiram turned to the bank manager.
“You’re coming with me,” he said. “I’ll run
you out to see the factory first, then we’ll go get
some eats. My automobile’s down below.”
Bannister expressed his pleasure, and the four
descended to the street.
“Can I drop y’ any place?” Pettigrew asked
Jerry and his daughter.
“No thanks,” replied Jerry. We’re going down
town.”
“O.K. We’ll be seein’ y’. Look after that
daughter of mine.”
“Your daughter can look after herself,” replied
Sally. “Mind you don’t get caught by the cops.”
“Cops!” snorted Pettigrew. “I’ve got their
measure.”
The young people stood at the edge of the
footpath as the car moved off.
“They make a good pair,” remarked Hiram as
he turned the corner.
“Do you think they—er—would?” asked Bannister.
“Do I think they would? I’m telling you they
do. Swell guy, that boy of yours.”
“He’s a good lad. And Sally’s”
“No need to tell me anything about Sally. Ain’t
I her old man? Didn’t I What’s this gink want?”
A traffic policeman was barring their progress.
Hiram pulled up.
“What’s the big idea?” he challenged.
“Don’t you know this is a one-way street?”
“Sure I do,” replied Hiram triumphantly, “but
only after five-thirty. That’s right, ain’t it?”
“Yair, that’s right,” agreed the policeman. “Come
on, what’s your name? Lemme see y’r license.”
“What th’ heck d’y want me name for? Ain’t
y’ just agreed it’s all right up till five-thirty?”
“Yair.”
“So what?”
“Only that it happens to be twenty to six already
and the longer y’ keep me the later it’ll get.”
“Hell!”
Pettigrew glanced at his watch.
“So you’re gonna lumber me for the sake of
ten lousy minutes! Y’ big slab”
- “C’mon, give us y’r name.”
“Like hell I will!”
“What’s this? What’s this?” a third voice broke
in on the party.
The policeman turned and saluted as he noticed
the stripes on the sleeve of the owner of the voice.
“He’s getting fresh, sergeant. Drivin’ in the wrong
direction in a one-way street and refusin’ to give his
name.”
“Oh. Well, you get along now and leave this
to me. I’ll fix it.”
“He’s pretty sore, sergeant. Don’t y’ think I’d
better”
“Don’t worry about that. I’ll deal with this
fellow.”
“All right, sergeant.” He scowled at the Ameri-
can and walked off.
The sergeant turned to Pettigrew. “Don’t
you worry, sir. You won’t hear any more
about this.”
“I should think not. The big Hell!
If it ain’t the old flatfoot from Terrigan.”
Peter Dansie beamed. “Glad to be of
service to you, Mr. Pettigrew. How do you do,
Mr. Bannister?”
“Why, Peter. So you’re a sergeant now?
Good man.”
Dansie looked almost coy. “Yes, Mr. Bannister.
Promotion’s come my way at last. Mightn’t sound
as important as Commissioner did, but it feels more
secure like.”
“I should think so.”
Dansie looked quickly up and down the street.
“I think,” he said, “if you nipped round the
next corner and then to your left you’d get through
all right.”
“Thanks, boy.”
They moved off again and followed Dansie’s
directions.
“Waal,” said Pettigrew, “I never thought I’d
have to hand it out to that small-town cop.”
“He certainly saved us a spot of bother.”
A couple of blocks further Bannister suddenly
pointed excitedly. “Look!” he said, “here’s a hotel
called the Royal. Let’s have a quick one for old-
times’ sake.”
“0.K.”
They pulled up and entered the hotel.
“It’s got nothing on Bert Milligan’s pub,” mur-
mured Bannister, his Terrigan loyalty coming to the
surface in alien surroundings.
Pettigrew did not reply. He had already caught
the eye of the barmaid and was ordering whiskies.
The bar was fairly crowded. From the corner came
the strident tones of a badly-tuned radio. A familiar
word compelled their attention.
“Speaking in the House of Representatives
at Canberra to-day,” said the announcer, “the
Prime Minister stated that negotiations had
been completed with the New South Wales
Government for the Commonwealth to take
over that portion of the State of New South
Wales known as Terrigan Shire. The Prime
Minister said he felt it his duty to commend
the New South Wales Premier for the broad
national outlook he had shown in the discus-
sions and his willingness to yield up this rich
and valuable district to the greater need of the
nation.
“The Minister for Defence, in supporting
the Prime Minister, said that for some years
he had had in mind the value of the harbor
at Terrigan as an adjunct to the naval base
at Jervis Bay, and while in England”
A moan of protest broke in across the bar.
“ ’Strewth! Switch it off, Hazel. We want to hear
what won the last at Warwick Farm.”
Hazel obligingly changed the station.
“Come on, Bannister,” said Pettigrew, “or it’ll
be too dark for y’ to see th’ factory.”
They walked towards the door.
“Anyway,” a voice was saying as they passed
out, “where is this place Terrigan he was talking
about? I never heard of it!”
[The End.]
“Come on, lemme see y’r license.”


w
A
T
t
» y s
V
.) i
//.
■JA
if
W&
A-
ifcs=z
///.
/ VIRNON
Life is splendid fun when you
are fit. You feel happy and want
others to be happy also. On the
other hand, the person with a
sluggish liver and a system
poisoned through constipation is
generally sick and tired of every-
thing, thus showing how the condi-
tion of the liver, which plays an
important part in regulating the
bowels, influences one’s outlook on
life.
As a medicine for stirring the liver and regulating
the bowels, Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills are held in
the highest regard by thousands who have used them
with the utmost satisfaction.
Dr. Morse!s
PILLS
They Make You Feel Brighter
Mirpil
Is an Ideal
SKIN BALM
Windburn and Sunburn. —When
the skin is burned by either wind or
sun, or both, one or more liberal
applications of Mirpil will bring
relief. If the skin is too tender to
bear being touched by hand, lay a
clean linen or cotton cloth, saturated
with the Balm, over the affected part.
Mosquitoes and Sandflies.—Mirpil
smeared on face and hands at night
will keep mosquitoes away. It also
soothes mosquito and sandfly bites.
Sore and Tired Feet. —Apply
Mirpil to the soles of your feet when
sore and tired. The relief is won-
derful.
After Shaving. —A small quantity
of Mirpil rubbed on the face after
shaving will be found soothing.
Before Applying Powder, always
rub Mirpil into the skin until quite
dry. The cleansing and cooling
actions of this preparation will
enhance the comfort which powder
provides.
Obtainable all chemists and leading
stores or will be sent post paid upon
receipt of postal note or stamps by The
W. H. Comstock Co., Ltd., 23 Lang Street,
Sydney, N.S.W., and 6 Farish Street, Wel-
lington, New Zealand.
Price, 2/6 per bottle, post paid.
WORMS
Does Your Child
Show Any of
These Symptoms?
Picking at the nose.
Grinding of the teeth, tossing and
crying out at night as though in
fright.
Extreme nervousness, muscular
twitching, irritability, sleeplessness,
and general discomfort.
Poor appetite, loss of weight, pale
or sallow skin, fatigue and lack of
ambition.
If so, the trouble may be caused
by worms, of which these are general
symptoms.
As a remedy for Stomach and
Thread Worms Comstock’s “Dead
Shot” Worm Pellets will be found
an excellent medicine compounded
on a scientific principle.
Obtainable all chemists and leading
stores or direct from The W. H. Comstock
Co., Ltd., 23 Lang Street, Sydney, N.S.W.,
or 6 Farish Street, Wellington, N.Z.
Price 2/- per box (six boxes I 1/6), post
free.
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK'S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
df
sd
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that 1 do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
V .1 Ny <(i
v >A
~
«/ r.O v .
>'
s^"
& e
&
G®'
y jp
&
* isy >sp ,\o\’
&*&&?£+,<*
4$
. Wl*' LiX>~
$y +** ...
/ #•’ .••••
o? a
2^**^
a
+<
tpy-dr*
o v v \°
o'
A'o 0


fs
AMAZING REPORTS FROM
USERS.
COULD NOT SLEEP
Glenelg, S.A.
The Douglas Drug Co.
Dear Sirs, —I am writing this testimonial
to you because I am so grateful for that
wonderful nerve and brain tonic, “Bido-
mak.” For years I have suffered with
my nerves —in fact, so bad that MY
FACE USED TO TWITCH AND I
COULD NOT SLEEP. After taking the
first bottle of your “Bidomak” I felt
relief.
Yours faithfully,
(Signed) Mrs. H.L.S.
WORN-OUT FEELING
ENDED.
Fitzroy, Vic.
Douglas Drug Co.
Sirs, —I am 52 years of age and for the
last three years I have had a worn-out
feeling and stiffness in my joints. I have
tried all sorts of so-called cures but failed
to get any relief till I tried a bottle of
“Bidomak,” and I am pleased to say that
after taking the first bottle I felt this com-
plaint leaving me. I am now on my
third bottle and improving every day, and
I would not be without a bottle of “Bido-
mak” in the house.
Yours faithfully,
(Signed) R. Cleeland.
NERVOUS BREAKDOWN
Perth, W.A.
Douglas Drug Co.
Dear Sirs, —Two months ago my wife
had a complete nervous breakdown; the
worry of this to me placed me almost in
the same state of ill-health. Money was
no object as far as my wife’s health was
concerned. I spent pounds and pounds
trying out all kinds of nerve tonics, but
all to no avail. Learning through a friend
of “Bidomak,” I decided to give it a trial.
I fully expected it to be like the rest of
other reputed leading brands of brain
and nerve-building tonics, but from the
time of taking the second dose of “Bido-
mak” I felt a considerable improvement in
my health, likewise my wife. The first dose
was taken by us a month ago and we
are now in splendid health.
(Signed) Mr. and Mrs. A.
CHILD’S NERVES IN
SHOCKING STATE.
Balladoran, sth Oct., 1936.
Douglas Drug Co.
My little boy had gastric ’flu at the age
of 2 years, and it left his nerves in a
shocking state. He was irritable, cranky,
and had sleepless nights, also no appe-
tite. I was almost worried out of my
mind, as I had tried several tonics and pre-
scriptions recommended by different ad-
visers which were of no avail. This last
winter he developed ’flu again and for 3
weeks he was just unbearable. I hap-
pened to glance at your advertisement in
the “Sydney Morning Herald” which had
a wonderful testimonial. I decided at once
to give “Bidomak” a trial and was delighted
with the sudden change with just a few
doses. My little boy has had one bottle
and a half of “Bidomak” and he looks
the picture of health, and he is enjoying
life. You can use this letter in any way
you wish and I’m sure anyone seeking the
help cannot go wrong with “Bidomak.”
I am, yours faithfully,
Mrs. G. F. McGarity,
Balladoran, N.S.W.
RECOVERY FROM SEVERE
NERVOUS BREAKDOWN
McMahon’s Point, Sydney.
July 25, 1935.
The Douglas Drug Company.
Dear Sirs,
I am writing you to convey to you my
account of my remarkable recovery, which
I feel certain is due to “Bidomak,” your
excellent nerve and brain tonic.
Some months ago I had a severe nervous
breakdown, due to a motor accident.
A friend of mine recommended “Bido-
mak” to me, having received much benefit
from it herself. I am now fit and well, feel-
ing grateful, too, for having found so
much benefit at such little cost. “Bido-
mak” is all that you claim it to be,
and from personal experience I have no
hesitation in recommending this wonder-
ful tonic as a truly genuine and lasting
pick-me-up.
Yours truly,
(Signed) Mrs. V.R.
I’ll Prove to you in 14 Days
That I can end YOUR
NERVES
urn hi Im. w hi Iv
With EXTRA Minerals
Amazing Trial Offer
MADE TO NERVY, RUN-DOWN MEN
AND WOMEN BY DISCOVERER OF
BIDOMAK
I have proved to hundreds of thou-
sands that the EXTRA MINERALS
of BIDOMAK begin to show real
results within fourteen days, and 1
can prove it to you —you do not need
to accept my word. You do not
have to take the word of thousands
of men and women who have
gained new life, new happiness, new
vigour from BIDOMAK’S extra
Minerals.
You can prove for yourself within
14 days, by the change you see and
feel in your own body, that nerves,
depression, easy fatigue, worry and
pain can be made to fly away. You
can feel new life pour through your
veins as the extra Minerals of BIDO-
MAK make new, rich blood —re-
build wasted nerve tissues, and charge
the blood stream with a renewed
supply of living, life-giving oxygen.
■
1
Simply go down to your chemist or grocery store
and get yourself the first bottle of BIDOMAIv.
Take it as directed, and soon you will feel
brighter and fitter—your edgy nerviness will
vanish away.
Perhaps you have tried many other tonics or
patent foods without benefit, and feel doubtful
that anything can do you good. If that is your
case, ,1 say to you: “Return the partly empty
bottle of BIDOMAK to me if you have not bene-
fited within 14 days, and I will refund your
money.”
Surely nothing could be fairer than that; but,
really, I have such absolute confidence that
BIDOMAK will do you good that I do not hesitate
to make this offer.
BIDOMAK strikes at the
root of nerve troubles.
In nine cases out of ten Nerves and
Depression are caused by Mineral Starva-
tion due to a lack of sufficient minerals
in modern diet.
BIDOMAK provides extra minerals, and
therefore corrects the cause of nerve
troubles and many constitutional ailments.
BIDOMAK provides
EXTRA ferrum to build rich, red blood,
and so carry extra oxygen to the tissues,
thus drawing away anaemia, and chasing
poisons and wastes from the system.
EXTRA calcium to build up bone and
nerve tissues, as well as general bodily
endurance.
EXTRA sodium to keep digestion keen,
counter acidity, clear away depression and
make you feel good.
EXTRA phosphorus to prevent nervous
breakdown and fatigue.' and to help in
creating new nerve, brain and red blood
cells.
EXTRA potassium to relieve nerve pains
and prevent constipation.
That is why I can so confidently guaran-
tee that BIDOMAK will benefit you or cost
you nothing.
HARMLESS, PLEASANT
TO TAKE.
BIDOMAK is harmless even
to the youngest children and
very pleasant to take—within
a few days you will feel better
—and within a week or so you
won’t know yourself, you will
feel so fit and well.
The sooner you begin, the
sooner you will experience the
benefit BIDOMAK brings you.
Go to your chemist or store
and get yourself a bottle of
BIDOMAK TO-DAY.
MONEY BACK
TRIAL OFFER
So certain are we that you will
notice these benefits quickly
that we guarantee to refund
your money if the very first
bottle of Bidomak does not
benefit you and you return the
nearly*empty bottle to the
Douglas Drug Co. within 14
days. Nothing could be fairer
than that.
ALL X
CHEMISTS
and STORES
3/
for a Large Bottle
New Zealand
3/6 >
:' v
PM
t •!*
f§
A«>k
mx
:•:• :j
fei«w
SSBB&&WS
BIDOMAK
The Tonic of the Century
For Nerve, Brain and
that “Depressed Feelmg
. . j , .1 n . n.,,.. SvHncv Adelaide, Melbourne, Brisbane, and Perth.
Bidomak is a product of the Douglas D ? y p Ltd 42-48 St. John Street, Launceston.
Sole wholesale agents for Tasmania : L. Fairthorne & Son t ty. i.ta., Wellington.
New Zealand Distributors: Fluenzol Pty. Ltd.. Thorndon yuay, Wellington.
There
is No
Substitute
